

IHt WHISKY Uf MAH I
R. 6. WATK.INS & 00.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining 1 and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes of SECURITY,
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
N.S.W. MONT DE PIETE D. & I. CO., LTD.,
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite National Amphitheatre. Telephone: No. 225 Central.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
And at
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, Ceneral Manager.
A
sar
tn
w nwt Ot mu Ot—SIT HMVtSTWtri CTL».y»*;
fi.fi
HOBAR.X.
Hadley s Orient foote!.
Q 1
“ A UEEN OF STATES”
BACON and HAMS.
QUEENSLAND CO-OP. BACON CO. LTD., BRISBANE.
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING
Guarantied
J. C. Ludowici «& Son, Ld,
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
hdf
buttons;
i!W!S*Bj&Q£
hfd
5.H.8
9
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
32 RECIPES
for preparing a variety of the most
dainty Desserts with
HANSEN’S
I
h
will be forwarded, Post Free to Any
Address, on application to
T. 8., Box 57T, G.P.0., Sydney.
PALMER CORD
are specially constructed to ensure Long Service.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO.,
SYDNEY—MELBOURNE—NEWCASTLE
fdh
9
DRINK
*
Amiwud is imitation Hardwood. It is just as well to tell you that it’s imitation, for when it’s up you
couldn’t tell it from the Real Thing. The beautiful grain of the wood is faithfully reproduced—so also is the
tone of the timber finish. It looks the same as Hardwood, exactly ; but it costs a great deal less, and therein
lies its value to you? flay we send you samples and prices? For remodeling a room, or for use in the
furbishing of a new room, it is as useful as in an entirely new house.
The Paraffine Paint Co., CHALLIS HOUSE, SYDNEY.
(D. S. EVANS, Australasian Manager.)
Manufacturers of Malthoid. Agents Everywhere.
WL
I
for Walls & Ceilings
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THB CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T?
fd
THE- CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T?
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
1....
DAVEY PAXMAN & GO. LTD.,
Engineers and Boilermakers.
MOFFATfVI RTU E LTD.,
352 KENT STREET (near Kingr Street), SYDNEY.
Sole
Agents,
Manufacturers of all types of High-grade
Steam Engines and Suction Gas Plants.
Particulars and details available.
Steam Portable Stocks carried.
hfd
helidon spa
** It is a dream of the Physician realised/* so says a medical man
of Helidon Spa. HELIDON SPA is Nature*s Eliminait.
STARKEYS LTD., Agents,
Phillip St., Sydney, and Red fern
The Bulletin
V01.34._N,,. 1762.]
[Thursday, November 20, 1913.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper


THE
WEEKLY
ANNUAL.”
TIMES
Australian National Anthem. Words by Roderie Quinn.
Music by Mrs. Georgette Peterson.
Fine Colored Plates. Stories and Verses.
1/- FINE ART PRODUCTION. 64 PAGES 1/«
Now obtainable from Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, all
Railway and Ferry Bookstalls, or The 'j ee '
Times Office, Linden Court, Castlereagh Street, byone, •
NEW BOOKS
(Postages shown
in parentheses.)
WHAT’S WRONG WITH UNIONISM? by J. T. Packer (General Secretary of the Liberal Workers’
Institute of Victoria). The True Case for Labor. 1/- (Id.)
The Reminiscences of Detective-Inspector Christie,
illus., 3/6 (2d.)
Hitchen’s The Holy Land, 3/6 (3d.).
Shaw’a William of Germany, 8/- (4d.).
Gibson’s Wireless Telegraphy and Telephony, 1914,
6/- (3d.).
Edler’s Switches and Switchgear, 1913, illus.,
18/- (6d.).
Leblane’s The Children’s Blue Bird., illus., 6/- (4d.).
At GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROP’T’Y, LTD., 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
FOR. THE. VO.CE! THROAT! LUNGS!
HUDSON’S EUHENTHOL JUJUBES.
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic. Contains no Cocaine
or other poisonous drug. Suitable for old and young.
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
Bronchitis, Influenza and the
Prevention of Consumption.
Unlike Cough Medicines' “Eumenthol Ju-
jubes” do not interfere with the Digestion;
on the contrary, they have a beneficial effect,
as their Antiseptic properties prevent ab-
normal fermentation of the food, and thus
they prove helpful for sufferers from Indiges--
tion and Dyspepsia when taken after meals.
The Lancet says: “Proved to be as effec-
tive bactericidally as is Creosote.”
m
tmsnzJTOKTj
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes are sold at Chemists and Stores, tins 1/6.
Forwarued post free on receipt of stamps by the Manufacturers,
Hudson's Eumenthol Chemical Co., Ltd.,
r. Box 1520 G.P.O. 17 York Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
October
Of the 46 entries for a sonnet on our
October, six were not sonnets. We were not
asking for spring poems. A common fault
of the sonnets submitted was that many
were mere catalogues. Thus it happens
that out of sheer weariness of fauna and
flora this sonnet by “A Woman who Never
has Time to Look at the Scenery” strikes
the critic as worth print:—
Now comes October, firstling of the Spring,
With juicy lamb, arid sauce that’s made with mint,
Green peasfc and salads, onions without stint—•
Such culinary joys the month doth bring.
Pull down the curtains, out the carpets fling 1
Bring hither mop and broom, and now by dint
Of working hard and long, with spurt and sprint, f
We give the season proper welcoming.
Then, in the afternoon, when all is clear,
We hie us to the city, there to view
Creations to the heart of woman dear—
October’s hats of every shape and hue ;
Ah, sigh opt so, suppress that envious tear—
The grocer’s bill is long, long overdue!
The keynote of most of the sonnets was
October's waywardness: she is “mistress of
caprice,” “fickle,” a “maid of moods”; but
several .sonneteers’ found solace from her
uncertainty in the surf. One. Ernest Casey,
more fortunate, found it in beer.
Forth, from old rat-holes come the wakened snakes,
Ravening (yet heedful of remembered foes),
To seek for mice and lizards in the grass.
So from its winter sleep my thirst awakes
To seek those fountains whence the good beer flows
And makes a brown October in the glass.
Pleasant sonnets, submitted by B. C.
Marriott Watson, “G.8.1X,” 11. D. Allen
and “Le Beau Temps” are too slight in in-
tention for publication here. The weeding-
out process resulted in seven nice sonnets.
M. Forrest’s sonnet, beginning finely—-
“October has his satchel full of gold”
is not well welded into compactness. Its
jumpiness obscures its sense, and no single
image emerges from the rich details. Mado-
line Murdoch takes the conventional meta-
phor of October turning from Spring’s love
to Summer’s caresses—and treats it con-
ventionally. Witness her sestette
How beautiful and faithless, with her lips
Where yet September’s vernal kisses cling—
Curled amorously to lure the Summer on!
She passes swiftly, smiling as she slips
Into her ardent new love’s arms. And Spring
With many a stricken backward glance, is gone!
Note how much more boldly W.L.D. treats
the same conceit * —
October is a wedded flirt whose spouse,
Declining Spring, lord Time condemns to see
The stripling Summer all audaciously
On west wind blow the fade his early-vows;
Yet, not quite won and full averse to rouse
'Twixt new and old love aught of enmity,
Lo, she recoils within her chastity,
But first one kiss the brown-faced boy allows.
So half disdainful of her bridal joys,
So half regretful of her vernal train,
The fickle month most insecurely stands
And doubtful of herself her charm alloys
By moods extreme, now sunny, now like
rain,
While to and fro stretch out her wav’ring
hands.
Marie E. J. Pitt becomes geographical.
(By the way, all complete Sonnets quoted
will be paid for.)
A fickle goddess moved of many moods,
Capricious, fretful as the homeless wind
A-moan amonffi the bull-oaks, and as blind
As sunstayed owl marooned in day-lit woods,
And so it haps, that, while the halcyon
broods
And northern uplands, all her glories bind,
And Sydney, bowered in bloom, and verdure
twined
Dreams softly through her white beatitudes,
Where southern capes uplift like mighty
horns "A
Of mihotaurs fast-frozen on the marge
Of grim Antarctic, Melbourne, veiled and
gray
Waits like a beggar scourged and turned
away,
Nor spurns the crumbs from banquets fair
and large,
Spring’s niggard honey, licked from Winter's
thorns.
The three remaining sonnets are admir-
able, though one is regretfully cast forth
because technically it limps. This is by
Duncan Brown:—
Time of lost winds of import vague that veer
From ends of all the earth and mocking
bring,
Now wanton incense of the passing spring,
Now wintry menace and a chilling fear,
Or summer's scorching breath —strange days
whose clear
Bright dawns send noontide winds to fling
A tumbling mass of cloud and thundering
Of distant storms that threaten, looming
near.
Australia’s month —wan days of change and
doubt,
Of sudden light and dark, when men go to
And fro with eager questioning, and all
Her dreams of quiet growth in fearful rout
Have fled before the ruddy, awful hue
Of old-world clouds whence Destiny may
fall.
The missing foot in the sixth line could,
of course, be justified were a looser method
of scafision allowed in so rigid a form as
the sonnet. “Bright dawns” is a large
mouthful for one iambic foot: with scan-
sioß on Bridges’ stress principle each word
would be equivalent to a foot. But the
sonnet must be more strictly scanned;
and the author has simply been led by the
“length” of those two words into thinking
that he had filled up his line.
“S.E.N.’s” sonnet is strictly conventional,
but admirably done. It has the lower
merit of chronological accuracy, yet escapes
the bathos of a too definite detail. Tire
fourth and fifth lines have the caesura in
the same place—an obvious defect.
Priestess of flow'rs- —her acolytes the bees —
She comes, sun-kiss'd anon, now chastely
cold;
Grey-garbed she weeps or sings in shining
gold,
October, Mistress of Caprice! The seas
Begin for her their siren song; the trees
Full-freighted with shy, nestling birds,
unfold
Their new green cloaks and all the flowers
hold
The fragrance of her rare and rain-wash’d
breeze.
Sweet wilful maiden-month of fronding
fern.
Hers is the ever-changeless charm of change:
Before her Aoaits and waves the whisp’ring
wheat;
To her the waratahs ’ red altars burn;
The wattle dies for her along the range
And casts his golden glories at her feet!
Thus we are left with this delightfully
unorthodox presentation of October, written'
in Maqriland. The octette intrigues you,
though it does little more; but the sestette
is supei'b. A looseness of rime is forgiven
for the sake of the sonnet’s worth. The
prize goes therefore to A. Gladys Kernot,
Wellington, MX., for
OCTOBER.
She came so fleetly that you scarce knew
where
Nor when she slipped from pale Septem-
ber's fold;
A lissom witch in apple-green and gold, _
Ten thousand prisoned sunsets in her hair:
Reincarnate —yet ah! so softly fair;
So warmly new, so wonderlessly old —
But who would dream so sweet a wench
could hold
A dusty niche on Time's old calendar f
Yet she is here, bareheaded, in the street,
A rose between her teeth, an eye that mocks
The maundering traffic; with a carmined
lip, _ 4
And little sudden ways, and darting fdet;
Her hair a-tumble with the equinox,
And Spring's third baby slung across her
hip.
MAOfiILAND.
A. GLADYS KERNOT.
The Cheerful Cubist
Do\ you cube? If not, why not become a
Cubist? Or a Cubiste? It is quite easy.
Our correspondence class will in one lesson
make you see things cubically, and after
that any intelligent art student can cube
to his or her heart’s content. Our profes-
sors are Albert Gleizes and Jean Metzinger,
both incorrigible Cubists, specimens of
whose cubes are herewith reproduced as a
guarantee of respectability. From Cubism
(Unwin) we extract the material of our
first correspondence class. Cubism is not a
melancholy profession: anyone can be happy
though cubic. “The joy of confining unlim-
ited art within the limits of the picture is
worth the effort which it requires.”
J*
Of Cubism C6zanne is the Old Master.
He is “one of the greatest of those artists
who constitute the landmarks of history,
and it ill, becomes us to compare him with
Van Gogh or Gauguin. He suggests Rem-
crandt. . . .From him we have learned that
to alter the coloration of a body is to cor-
rupt its structure. He prophesies that the
study of primordial volume will open un-
known horizons to us. His work, a homo-
geneous mass, shifts under the glance, con-
tracts, expands, fades or illumines itself,
irrefragably proving that painting is not —
or is no longer—the art of imitating an ob-
ject by means of lines and colors, but the
art of giving our instinct a plastic con-
sciousness.”
WOMAN ON HORSEBACK
(Salon des Independants, 1912), by Jean
Metzinger.
Do you get that? The first exercise is to
give your instinct a- plastic consciofisness.
The rest is easy. The main thing is not to
imitate an object by means of lines and
colors. Note in the example of Jean Met-
zinger how admirably your professof has
succeeded in not imitating his “Woman on
Horseback” by any means whatever.
** Under penalty of condemning all modern
painting, we must regard Citbism as legiti-
mate, for it continues modern methods, and
we should see in it the only conception at
present possible of the pictorial art. In
other words, Cubism is at present painting
itself.
Unless you are a cube you cannot paint.
The only artists are Cubists. Obviously,
unless you want to get left, the only thing
for the art student is to cube without delay.
And do not dare to be decorative. “We
ought to regard the decorative preoccupation
if we find it in h painter, as an anachronistic
artifice, useful only to conceal impotence.”
And do not despair if the public dislike your
cubes. Be more bravely cubic, and in the
end the public will applaud. “A man will
enjoy to-day what exasperated him yester-
day. . . .How should comprehension evolve as
rapidly as the creative faculties? It follows
in their wake.”
Jt
The next lesson is to beware of master-
pieces—even culyc masterpieces. “Decorum
demands a certain degree of dimness, and de-
corum is one of the attributes of art.”
Above all, let no one be decoyed by the
apoearance of objectivity with which many
impudent artists endow their pictures. The
fact commonly invoked, that we find in
a painting the familiar characteristics which
form its motive, proves nothing at all. Let
us imagine a landscape. The width of the
river, the thickness of the foliage, the height
of the banks, the dimensions of each object
and the relations of these dimensions —these
are secure guarantees. Well, if. we find
these intact upon the canvas, we shall have
learned nothing as to the talent or the
genius of the painter. River, foliage, and
banks, despite a conscientious representa-
tion to scale, no longer “tell” by virtye of
their width, thickness and height, or the
relations between these dimensions. Torn
from natural space- they have entered a
different kind of space, which does not
assimilate the proportion observed. This
remains an external matter. It has just
as much importance as a catalogue number,
or the title at the bottom of a picture-frame.
Anybody, even a R.A., or Lister Lister,
can paint a place that looks like the place. The
aim of all good young Cubists should be to
PORTRAIT OF A MAN,
by Juan Gris.
paint a place that doesn’t look like anything
at all except a cube root. Accuracy of rep-
resentation is quite superfluous. Our cubic
professors remind us that “we visit an exhi-
bition to contemplate painting and to enjoy
it” —just as you may enjoy the specimens
given herewith: “not to enlarge our know-
ledge of geography, anatomy, etc.”
Let your picture imitate nothing; let it
nakedly present its motive, and we would be
ungrateful were we to deplore the absence of
those things—flowers, or landscape, or faces
-—whose mere reflection it might have been.
But, at present, your instructors regret that;
the reminiscence of natural forms cannot be\
absolutely banished. Careful study will
bring to light at least portions of the woman
and fragments of the horse in Metzinger’s
masterpiece. Remember that “an art can-
not be raised to the level of a pure effusion
at the first step.” But there is no harm in
your trying.
The next lesson can be comprehended only
by extremely cubical Cubists, but it is in-
serted here for our advanced students.
Every inflection of form is accompanied
by a modification of color, and every modi-
fication of color gives birth to a form.
There are tints which refuse to wed certain
lines; there are surfaces which cannot sup-
port certain colors, repelling them to a
distance or sinking under them as unun r
heavy a weight. To simple forms the fun i"
mental hues, of the spectrum are allied, and
fragmentary forms should assume soarklW
colors. F llu h
Pay no attention to those hide-bound
teachers who tell you that -you should re
present things as they are. It is the mis
sion of every ambitious Cubist to deliver
things from their commonplace appearance
as, for instance, Gleizes has delivered his
“Trees.”'
TREES,
by Albert Gleizes.
From the fact that the object is truly
transubstantiated, so that the most accus-
tomed eye has some difficulty in discovering
it, a great charm results. The picture
which only surrenders itself slowly seems
always to wait until we interrogate it, as
though it reserved an infinity of replies to
an infinity of questions.
But do not hope to paint cubic master-
pieces without the aid of familiar symbols.
You have to decide whether you should
scatter these symbols all through your work,
mix them intimately with personal symbols,
or boldly exhibit them, magical discords,
shreds of the great collective lie, at a single
point of the place of the higher reality
which you appropriate to your art. If you
painting a cow. you will find it neces-
sary tb circumnavigate that cow, in order to
seize several of its successive-- appearances,
then you must fuse these northern, eastern,
southern and western aspects into a single
image, thus “reconstituting it in time.” Only
in that cubic way will you be able to pre-
sent the Cow, all the Cow and nothing but
the Cow. (The celebrated cubist master-
piece of a nude descending a staircase really
does show a nude descending a staircase,
though the artist had to paint 28 nudes and
11 staircases and put them all into the one
picture before he succeeded in “reconstitut-
ing” the lady “in time.”)
J*
The final lesson is to disregard the crowd.
The (iltimate aim of painting is to touch
the crowd; but painting must not address
the crowd in the language of the crowd; it
must employ its own language, in order to
move, dominate and direct the crowd, not
in order to be understood. “The artist who
concedes nothing, who does not explaiii him-
self and relates nothing, accumulates an
internal strength whose radiance shines on
every hand.”
That radiance you may acquire if you
take our Cubist Correspondence Course.
Particulars and fees on application.
• ■
The entries for the eotnpetition for the
best sonnet on mr November must reaon
this page by December 6.
A third edition of Dr. O. L. M. Abramow-
ski’s Eating for Health (Lftthian, Meib.,
3s. 6d.), has been revised and enlarged by
J. T. Huston. The author, now dead, lived
much in Australia, and his experience lea
him to his belief in the high value of a fruit
diet. The volume is clearly and convinc-
ingly written.


At
w aoe
Aniliomj,
Honderns'
;
I
W&k V 5
//l»
mim
&r
k
/«
t $V
U
to
ii!"
-■■■>
.i
a**.
r?
mifl
Ml
, t
■ -**•
|*a r-' ** ❖ ■
>*h ••’, ;*■
*#! •.', ’ ir .1
V ■,
V ,|
trances Barbara
F
T Naomi
Edna
une
The Muriel.—Smartly-cut Robe Costume, of French Grey Poplin, has V yoke
of White Guipure Lace, piping of Black and White Satin, and Black and Grey Buttons ;
other colors are Grey, Reseda, Rose and Mole 21/6
The Fiances. — A Dressy Coat and Skirt Costume, of soft White pique, with
washable Saxe, Brown, or Grey woven stripes ; three-piece Skirt has Buttons to corres-
pond 32/6
The Barbara—Attractive Robe Costume, of Biscuit Poplin, lapped seams on
skirt and bodice, completed with frills of lace; Brown Silk Belt, Collar and Cuff-s
embroidered in Biscuit and Brown shades, finished Pearl Buttons 27/6
The Naomi.—Novel Coat and Skirt Costume, Coat of soft White Crepe; the
Spade Collar and Cuffs being of Turquoise, Grey, Rose or Mauve floral Rosebud ditto,
of which the four-piece, high-waisted Skirt is entirely composed • 22/6
The Edna. — A Stylish, Washable, Summer Costume, is of White Pique,
with either Helio, Reseda, Grey, Navy or Black stripes and Buttons to match 19/11
Send for our
XMAS
PRICE
LISTS
post free on
request. They
will solve the
present prob-
lem and make
gift- giving
easy. Here
are the lists :
Popular Pre-
sents to Suit
Every Purse;
Xmas G ro-
ceries ;
Tobacco and
Cigars ;
Books for Xmas
and Leisure
Hours;
Guide to Pic-
caninn ies’
Paradise ;
Selections
from the Fine
Art Gallery.
1010
Correct Styles For
: Sparing & Summer :
6240
hfd
FRONT
VltW
2402
Ki
n
PAUUNE .
HORDERNS’
10i«
BACK
VIEW
528
1018
■5033
No. 1010.— Sniartly-Cllt Skirt, in Black arid Navy Sicilian, with lapped seams, trimmed
Buttons, Empire Waist
Out sizes 18/0
No. 1018.— Stylish Fine Coating Serge Skirt, well-tailored and cut, double pleat down
centre back, trimmed bone Buttons, Empire Waist, Black or Navy 16/6
No. 6240.— Useful Costume Skirt, in White Sponge Cloth, well-cut, finished Pearl Buttons—
-13/6
No. 2402.— Fashionable White Linen Skirt, with stitched folds, trimmed Bone Buttons,
Empire Waist , / 7/0
No. 2o i . —fhe I’auline.——Smartly Designed Coat and Skirt Costume, of rich silk
Crepoline, in new shades of Banana, Nut Brown and Black ; Coat has facings of Soft Charmeuse
to match, or in contrast Black or Biscuit shade, covered in Tinsel Net, finished at waist with
folded Satin Belt, Rosette and Sash, lined throughout with Ivory Silk Polonaise; Well-cut four-
piece Skirt. Small illustration is of front view £t>/9/6
No. 528.— Stylish Tweed Skirt, in Dark Grey shades, Summer weight, finished Bone Buttons,
and lapped seams V ‘ ‘
No. 5033.— Useful Summer Skirt, of fine Cream Panama, well-cut, and finished with Self folds.
rounded at foot, trimmed Bone Buttons _ 10/G
All Skirts stocked. Length, 37 to 44 inches; Waists, 22 to 28 inches; Out sizes. 2/6 extra.
Ann
unotiij,
Horderns’
"-“V C#*
i *
m
f-r
fr ~9
M
1■■ wf Jt
W 111
It U* ■,- Mj
) wHLar
I 4
T
f- !
S>
' irf> v t
* *
•' <&& i
fti
Mil
.. ‘
KM
f
f 1/
fPK f§ Juj^M%
L -t , <**
Phyllis W -'■"- 77
Dori
in la
The Phyllis. An Attractive Gown in richly embroidered White Voile; the
turned-down Collar is finished with Guipure Edging 45/-
Similar style, No. R 123 37/6
The Esme.—A Pretty Style in White Cotton Voile; the corsage and side
pieces in Skirt are of Guipure Insertion, turned-down Collar and Cuffs, trimmed
Guipure Edging 42/-
The Doris.—A Very Dainty Embroidered White Voile Robe, square
neck and three-quarter sleeves, finished with folded Belt of Self 32/6
The Rita.—An Effective Design in White Embroidered Voile; the
turned-down Collar, Sleeves and Basque are finished with Irish Guipure Edging 39/6
READY TO WEAR
COSTUMES
*jfS#
sV ve & attractive
AT
ANTHONY
HORDERNS’
A
m
s.
SP
LILIAN
H * ENLEY
BERYL
lI2A
The Lilian. Striped Cambric Robe, Grey, Biscuit and Saxe, with collar, cuffs and strap-
pings of plain material to match 9/11
The Henley.—Dainty and Smart Coat and Skirt Costume, of good quality Ivory
Japanese Silk ; Coat has high-waisted basque, three-quarter set-in sleeves, and is smartly finished
with knot tie of Paisley Satin Foulard, in new shades; the Sailor Collar has three rows of
colored stitching to match. Well-cut three-piece Skirt, with shaped, lapped seams.... 29/6
The Edith. Useful Robe Costume, of Navy or Butcher Blue ground Cambric, with White
Spot, and collar, cuffs and buttons of plain Cambric to match or contrast, or in plain Navy or
Butcher - with spotted co-llar and cuffs 6/6
Same design, No. R6l, in striped or plain Cambric, finished with reverse in Poppy Bed, Navy,
Butcher, Grey, Saxe or Black 8/6
The Beryl. Robe Costume, a cool, smart little frock for summer wear, in Pompadour
Printed Voile, with tiny floral designs, effectively relieved with Paisley border, which has self
color contrast edging, also small metallic ball Buttons to tone, in Navy, Grey, Biscuit or
Saxe .... 23/6
No. 1128.-«-Lady’s Maternity Coat, pleated from yoke at back and front, 52 to 56 inch, all
sizes. Made in good quality Grey, Black, Navy or Cream Sicilian 24/6
In Natural Tussore Silk 27/6, 35/6
In Panama Hopsac, in Biscuit, Grey, Black, Navy or Cream 27/6
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Bricßneld Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


■
m
■■
TUB
Ammunition.
Question is
Easily Settled. USE
Traae
Mark
WINCHESTER
Rifle and Pistol Cartridges
That is the answer. They end ammunition troubles. The
Winchester name and trademark on a box of cartridges mea i
that they are accurate, reliable and uniform, in a word the best
that can be made. They are a guarantee that the long experi-
ence, great skill and unequalled facilities of the Winchester Re-
peating Arms Company, —the largest manufacturers of guns
and ammunition in the world —were all efficiently employed in
making the cartridges. Winchester cartridges develop the
greatest possibilities of any rifle or revolver in which
they are used. They are sold by all dealers, and are the
best sellers everywhere. Accept only Winchester make
TO GMT TllM FULL LIMIT OF SHOOTING SATISFACTION
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
sjill. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. G. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE,
Ride
a hundred miles
m
on smooth or bumpy roads and if you’ve a Brooks
saddle you’ll bless the careful thought, the long experience
and the honest workmanship that gave you such ease.
Our 890 is the saddle for comfort. Broad where it
carries weight—narrow where narrowness means freedom
of movement —beautifully made and sprung to float—it
will carry you in comfort as far as your legs will push you.
BROOKS
OF ALL
DEALERS
HE BEST STORIES written in Australia appear in THE
LON IT HAND each month. Price Sixpence.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Kent Brewery, Sydney
9f
ÜBgaass o®’ 0 ®’
Socks and
Stockings.
Iw'ilM
To ensure having the best socks and stockings it is
possible to buy, insist on having
are no ho' - in the world so good, because i
h
There
no
other have the all-wool qualities, the unshrinkableness
and the soft silkiness of
Perfectly knitted from the best Australasian wools,
they fit snugly and comfortably. They are dyed witft
fast hygienic dyes, and they carry with them the
makers’ guarantee to replace any pair that shrinks.
&
Socks and Stockings are made
in all styles and prices for men,
ladies and children. If your dealer does
not stock them insist upon his getting them
for you.
In case of difficulty, write
Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, England.
fdh
An 40
H
Waterman's
(Ideal)
Fountain Pen
THE WORLD’S
BEST FOUNTAIN PEN
Makes writing a positive
pleasure. Nib just suited
to your hand, a steady,
sufficient flow of ink to
the point while writing,
no leaking, no splutter-
ing, no faltering. Lasts
a lifetime ; every pen
guaranteed.
In 4 types—
Regular and Self-1 illing, 12 6 and
upwards ; Safety and Pump-
Filling, 15/- and upwards.
Of Slattoners and Jewellers everywhere.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, LTD.,
Koh-i-noor House, London, England.
Australia—3so, George Street, Sydney.
\
GENTLEMEN,
The beautiful MISS VIOLET
PAGET, the Anglo-Australian
actress who has just completed
a very successful six months'
season at the historic 44 Little
Theatre/' Castlereagh Street,
Sydney, writes her emphatic
opinion of the curative value
for weak nerves and mental
exhaustion of the great medicine
CLEMENTS TONIC
“I cannot speak too highly of the benefit I derived from the use of
your Clements Tonic. I sleep well ancl feel strong again. I recommend
it to anyone suffering from loss of strength and poor appetite. It is a
wonderful health restorer. « (Signed) VIOL ET PAGET.”
This medicine is without equal for the relief of Insomnia, Brain-fag, Acute
Neuralgia, Palpitation, Nerve Weakness, Depression, Indigestion or Constipation.
It gives the nerves new force.
ALL CHEMISTS and STORES SELL IT.
GET IT and GET WELL!


DON'T NEGLECT
YOUR HAIR
Your looks demand that you
should take care of it, make
it more beautiful, more lus-
tre us, softer ; you can easily
and readily do so by using
ROWLAND’S
MACASSAR
I OIL i
which nourishes, strengthens,
nurtures, and promotes the
growth of Fine Silky Hair;
you will notice an improve-
ment from the first time you
use it. Use it for your own
and your Children’s Hair;
Golden Colour for Fair Hair.
Sold in three sizes by Stores,
Chemists, and Rowland’s,
67, Hatton Garden, London.
Avoid cheap imitations under
the same or similar name.
WORLD’S CYCLE RECORD
M. Planes on a 7 year old British-made All-
Steel Mead Models superbe
‘COVENTRY FLYER *
Rode 34«366 Miles in 365 Hays
(officially authenticated!. Beat ov. r 650 com-
petitors on up-to-date cycles.
MEAD CYCLES STAND THE TEST.
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS.
Dunlop Tyres, Variable-SDeed Gears, etc.
list. 25 yrs.
MEAD
Latest
Models
£3-10 to £9
Direct from factory, Packed Free, Carriaga
Paid to your port. Ten Days’ Free 1 rial.
Motor Cycles and Cycle-Cars at Factory
Prices. Write for Tree Art Catalogue*
and Marvellous Offers. Agents Wanted.
CYCLE COMPANY,
(Dept. A 282 ), LIVERPOOL,
AGENT for MEAD CYCLES—
** VAL. D. COLE, Book Arcade, Melbourne.
LARGE STOCKS ON HAND. ALL MODELS
HIMROD'S
ASTHMA POWDER
CIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
No matter what your Respiratory
Organs may be suffering from—
whether Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough— you will
find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
fdh
The lasting and world-wide
popularity of Eley Cartridges
offers the best possible proof of
their satisfactory quality.
Eley Cartridges contain the Standard
Loads of powder and shot, as marked on
boxes. Shooters should beware of all
cartridges the loads of which
are not specified on boxes.
Always Reliable
Si
Ui S 3
s 3
nm
Elcy Pluto’
A Huff Cartridge
loaded with Eley
(33gr) Smokeless
Powder and
lr's oz. of shot.
fd
os
•s
W
UJ
K^jji
is
Elcy
‘Fourten’
Gas tight
Cartridge,
load e d
with Eley
Smokeless
pow d e r
Sold by
Eley
'Fourlong *
A22in.lndian
Red Gastight
Cartridge,
loaded with
Eley (33 gr.)
Smokeless
Powder and
| No. 6 or
smaller shot
all Gunmakers and Ammunition Dealers.
A S ent: ALBERT ADAMS
420, QEOROE STREET. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELEY BROS
LONDON
THE Best Stories written in Australia
a onear in The Lone Hand each month.,
Price tid.
m
Good for
The Children
Every mother knows that there is
no better Cough Medicine for the
little ones than “Bonnington’s Irish
Moss.” Its soothing and healing
properties are at once noticeable. It
is pleasant to take and affords relief
from the first dose.
Guaranteed entirely free from harmful narcotics
BONNINCTON’S IRISH MOSS
gained its place in public favor by sterling worth, and keeps it by the same
unchanged efficiency. For the relief and cure of Coughs and Colds, Bronchitis,
Whooping Cough, Croup, this reiu.dy is unsurpassed.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTES.
Always ask for "BON N I NGTON'S’
1/6 & 2/6
RUNKENNESS Cured.
Any lady can cure the most violent drunkard—secretly— at home. GOLDEN
SPECIFIC has no odor or taste, and can be taken by the most delicate person
of either sex. It total’y eradicates all craving for stimulants, creating a last-
ing antipathy to alcohol in a few weeks. Many cases are cured in a few days
with this treatment. . . .Send 2d. stamp for FREE SAMPLE and full particulars.
THE GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO., DEPT. 4, MARKET STREET, SYDNEY. N.S.W.
MR. G. VECSEY.
Do You Want to
•>e Rid of Your
VARICOSE VEINS?
TUTS APPEAL is made direct to you because from our experience we know
that thousands of people have suffered the tortures of the damned from
varicose veins and ulcers, because they did not know there was a painless
cure for this disastrous complaint. Did you know that there really is a
cure ?
Owing to the failure of ordinary methods to overcome this trouble, the
layman has come to believe that no cure exists for the trouble —a belief
that was founded on fact about four years ago, when
Vecsey Home Treatment
first made its appearance. The change was marvellous. Men and women
came by thousands, and of the hundreds who have had treatment each year,
NINETY-EIGHT PER GENT, are to-day heralding their marvellous cures
broadcast. Very few, even of the exceptionally bad cases, are incurable, and if we undertake your
case we will not fail to effect the desired results. Guarantee given in every case accepted. This
method is a home treatment, easy and simple to adopt, and gives entire satisfaction without laying-
up or detention from business. It is painless and harmless, and cures the worst cases by a few
weeks’ application. No man or woman suffering from this complaint should neglect this splendid
opportunity to be rid of this dangerous and painful trouble for all time. If you would like to feel
your legs well, strong and supple again, send for fujl details of this wonderful treatment.
WE WILE SEND YOU SCORES OF LETTERS LIKE THIS:
Mackay, Queensland.
Dear Sirs. —I shall never regret the day I decided to follow your advice,
as I don’t believe I shall be troubled again with varicose veins. Your splendid
treatment restored my legs to their normal state, and they are free from pains,
aches or blemishes, and it is all due to your wonderful treatment. Thanking
you for your kind and business-like methods while treating me.—l remain,
yours truly, WILLIAM S. LORD.
Free BooK. Diagnosis Free. Advice Free.
Send a 2d. stamp to pay part postage, and full particulars—with our free, illustrated book —will be
sent you by return post. This method offers you an opportunity that nothing else under the sun
can give you. Get rid of your varicose veins. Send for Book and Diagnosis Chart to-day. No
matter where you live we can treat you successfully by post. (1829)
THE VECSEY VARIX-ARIUM, 3103 ASH STREET, SYDNEY.
THE CAN-MAKING INDUSTRY!
SANITARY—SIMPLE
EFFECTIVE—RAPID.
The Entire Top Open.
m
<5511
P NTERPRISING PRESERVE OANNERS in every part of the world
I —' have come to realise that the old, slow, unsanitary method of
manufacturing and sealing cans by hand with poisonous solders is ob-
solete.
That is why the MAX AMS SANITARY CANNING MACHINERY
is being used by the world’s leading canners. If you are using cans
ior packing preserves, fruits, vegetables, or in fact any food product, the
SANITARY, SOLDERLESS, HERMETICALLY SEALED CANS
m ids by these machines will save you time, money and labor.
No. 58 and No. 68 Automatic Double Seamers will seal can tops on
bodies ljin. high and 2in. in diameter up to 1 gallon and over. The
scope in the range of possible changes is instantly appreciated.
No adjusting or fussing, or mechanical skill required. Can be run
by boy or girl.
These machines are RY NO MEANS confined to any PARTICULAR
CLASS of cans. The operation of these Seamers is SIMPLE. The
cans are automatically conveyed to the baseplate with the cover, and
INSTANTLY the CAN engages the rollers, making a CLEAN and tight
DOUBLE SEAM.
VVe Furnish Complete Outfit for Making These Cans.
For full particulars write to the
MAX AMS MACHINE CO.
MT. VERNON, NEW YORK, XJ.S.A.
OR THROUGH ANY EXPORT COMMISSION HOUSE.
Tobacco
Kills!
MOST MEN would
cure themselves of
the Tobacco Habit if
they knew they could
do so easily and also
without causing
themselves discom-
fort. ... It takes but
ten minutes for To-
bacco to change the
beats of the heart.
To keep it up is to
tempt death by heart
disease, nervous col-
lapse, tobacco cancer
and stomach, liver or
kidney disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harm-
less, vegetable remedy that will make the
user of tobacco in any form absolutely aban-
don the habit for good. It not destroys the
craving, the desire, the appetite for tobacco,
but restores to health the entire nervous sys-
tem, and aids Nature in entirely eliminating
from the system the Nicotine Poison of
Tobacco.
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you, under
sealed cover, a Free Sample, also our Book-
let, "The Tobacco Habit and its Consequen-
ces.” Write for particulars and Book to-day.
H. SINCLAIR (&. CO.,
Dept. G,
107 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY. [4.
am
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring misses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance tliat is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Never mind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is. in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Cnn you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women & children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins-art., Melbourne, Vic.
The Standard Remedy irhlch has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT,
In use since 159^
CURES
Anstralian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your Chemist for its history— the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
THE Australian Magazine. THE LONE
HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6a.
verious verse
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
An Old Portrait.
“Life is brief, soon our hearts grow old —
Let’s be merry and jest a bit!
Sin and sorrow? ’Tis mostly gold,
Woman’s heart the rare gem in it!”
So I said, and your eyes flamed, once —
Flamed and flashed in a dazing way—
Once when I was the dullest dunce. . . .
Brown-eyed girl, did the dreams decay?
You went your way, and I, too, then
Learned life’s lessons in many schools,
Loved fair women and loved true men ;
Wise men laugh at the taunts of fools!
Some roam far to the tents of Shem,
Some grow famous —with rags of pride
Some go under ; who cares for them?. . . .
Time sweeps on in his heartless stride.
I have lived as the common clay,
Walked where thousands have walked
before,
Poor in pocket and fame as they;
Rich, perhaps, in a thought,the more;
I have sorrowed ; and loved and sinned,
Groped in darkness and walked in light,
Sang with angels in rain and wind,
Fought with devils of storm and night!
Old friends, sweethearts, long dead and gone
Into the limbo of past delights,
Haunt the dusk as I linger on,
Dreaming dreams of mid-summer nights.
Bright eyes beckon and lure —ah, once
None so beckoned and lured as they ! —-
Once when I was the dullest dunce. . ..
Brown Eyes, where fled the dreams away?
N.S.W.
W. M. WHITNEY.
The Moons of March.
If Ju..e should hold a windless night
Filled with the heralding of rain
The moons of March shall shine again.
These alien hills shall know the light
That lit the forest on the plain,
If June should hold a windless night
Filled with the heralding of rain.
And nought shall rob me of this sight,
And nought shall shield me from this pain.
If June should hold a windless night
Filled with the heralding of rain
The moons of March shall shine again.
Victoria.
PATRICIA MURCHISON.
An Afternoon Reverie.
The seas are wide and hazy,
They have no heart to leap ;
I feel too glad and lazy
To even want to sleep;
I am as goddesses of old
Who lay on clouds uncamisoled.
The bright sun is a sinner.
He wantons with my hair;
The breeze with fingers thinner
Fondles me everywhere ;
Arcadian lovers these who play
In sight of George the King’s highway.
A mad car wildly speeding
Spins through a dust of gold,
The drowsy bee is feeding
Where crimson petals fold;
But I, amid soft cushions set,
Live, breathe, am happy, and forget.
When sea-born Cytherea
First saw the earth and sky
She looked about to see a
Nice grassy place to dry ;
And, spreading out her splendid hair,
Lay down without a thing to wear.
Her white doves came to flutter
Around on snowy wings,
She lay in joyance utter
Of sweet imaginings;
And over her that sun of old
Scattered his laughter edged with gold.
The shining lord of day meant
As well as he could mean ;
And if I wear some raiment
And am not beauty’s queen,
I understand the kind intent
Of all his present merriment.
There is a gentle madness
In everything around,
A thin, etherial badness
That makes no stir or sound;
A sort of fine indecency
Of insolence that pleases me.
Because I am a woman,
Because my lips are red,
A touch of something human
Is still about me shed ;
In all the earth, and sea, and sky
Tall lovers on my beauty spy.
My arm that sunbeam misses
Which fell against my dress,
But I can feel the kisses
The little breezes press
About my forehead crisp and clear
With whispers no one else can hear.
The seas are glad and hazy.
They scorn a watch to keep.
So fair, and faint, and lazy,
I think they are asleep ;
But I must rouse me from my dream
For things are other than they seem.
However nice the sea be,
However good the hour,
I must arise as Hebe
And dip my arms in flour ;
Yea, even toil as Mary Ann
To please six large brown feet of man.
To toil as any slavey
With baking dish and pot,
Producing paste and gravy
To serve it piping hot —
I wonder if amid the stars
Venus has things to cook for Mars.
jy.s.w.
MARY McCOMMON WEALTH.


The Choice of the Wise House-Furnisher.
Careful buyers about to furnish a home will undoubtedly COME TO I S for all
their household requirements. They know they could not do better than select
all their furniture from our immense stock. ESTIMATES AM I ( A I AI.OGI ES
posted free on application.
A Suite of Quality.
hdf
hfd
The •• DON.
No. 2213. The “Doll” is a handsome Suite consisting of 3ft. Wardrobe, with one long
drawer and side panels; 1 3ft. Washstand, double tiles, shelf on top and pedestal cupboard;
1 3ft. Beaconsfield Comb. Chest, 4 drawers. Best Oxidised fittings, £lO/17/6.
WE STOCK EVERY KIND OF RELIABLE FI’RXITFRE.
CASH OR TERMS.
MARCUS CLARK & CO., LTD.,
The Expert
House-Furnishers
Railway Square, George Street, Sydney.
DINNEFORD’S
DINNEFQRD'S
Magnesia
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
IsfCel&a,
r
SZLs&t
THE
Is jus
and P
is att;
fitted
The Accondeon with
MELLOW TONE
t perfection for Song Accompaniments, Dance Music
ionics. The Organ-liUe Tone of these Instruments
ained by the use of Bell Metal Reeds, which are hand-
and tuned.
THREE POPULAR MODELS.
THE ORGAN TONED MELBA
3 Sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 22/6, post free.
THE DANCE KING
4 Sets Ball Metal Reeds, price 30/-. post free
THE PICNIC MODEL.
2 Sots Bell Metal Reeds, price 15/-, post free
OTHER MODELS FROM 7/6 TO 40/•
For Free Catalogue No. 9 write to—
h
” 276 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
and also at Bendigo and Geelong.
<*.»• <** <
'V £>
LACER
Possesses distinctive qualities—it
is a delightfully refreshing, in-
vigorating and nourishing Lager
—valuable as a food for Nursing
Mothers, Invalids, etc.—apart from
its high-grade merit as a light
beverage.
OBTAINABLE at all FIRST-CLASS
CLUBS, HOTELS, RESTAURANTS,
etc.
rshed
aRMM
If you have never before
used a rubber hose in your
garden, do so this season and
note what a difference it will
make.
Gardens and Lawns do not
stand a chance unless thev
are regularly watered.
He wise now and get a length
“Watershed”
Red Rubber
Garden Hose,
the Hose that will make all
the difference. Made in 60ft
coils.
lin x 3-ply 9d. per ft
60ft., complete with fittings,
45/C.
fin. x 3-ply .... 1/. per f t
30ft., complete with fittings
31/9; or 60ft. for 60/6.'
All ready for use.
Our New Summer List will interest .you. It is post free. Send for a copy.
Ask your Storekeeper or Ironmonger for “Watershed,” and see that the
registered brand is moulded on every coil.
If he does not stock it, send your order direct to us. adding enough to eovei
cost of carriage.
X Rubber Go. Ltd
270 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Also at Melbourne,
Adelaide C&l> Brisbane.
a kj
*
Floor Talk
If you arc interested in Floor Talk
you must have heard of 3h i •
Noleum as it is used in nearly
every home of the Commonwealth.
As a polish and preserver of
Linoleum there is nothing to equal it#
it gives a bright lasting shine with only
half the usual amount of work, it is
cleanly to handle and gives the great'
est satisfaction in every way. Order
a tin to-day and see how good it is.
t
8 H.P. Unit Power Plant .
B.
* m
Single Cylinder “Perfection,”
with Igniter and Plug Cover.
m
Photograph of Actual Test.
Test shown in above photograph was made to
prove that “Perfeetion” Igniter is absolutely water-
proof. We challenge any engine manufacturer in the
world to produce an engine with an ignition system
that will stand a similar test. Every part of the
ignition system was submerged in water and engine
continued to run, showed the same power and speed
as when running perfectly dry, proving beyond any
doubt our claim. AN ABSOLUTE WATERPROOF
IGNITION SYSTEM.
Perfection Special Gasoline and Kerosene Engines are the greatest value ever
placed on the market. Full rated horse-power guaranteed, simple construction,
economic cost of upkeep, high-grade material, best workmanship, smooth running,
and, in service, equal to any higher-priced engine.
Marine Engines, suitable for Canoes, Tenders and Fishermen.
WATERPROOF IGNITION SYSTEM.
No Coils, no Batteries, no Timer, no danger of your engine stopping if
caught in a storm, as Ignition System is ABSOLUTELY WATERPROOF.
Here’s the Marine Engine that’s designed to be operated by inexperienced hands.
Every effort has been made to simplify their design. There’s nothing complicated
about them.
CAILLE PERFECTION ENGINES
are the height of simplicity. Any member of the family can run them. All parts
are completely enclosed, except the fly-wheel. No oil can splash out —no water can
splash in. One large, sight-feed lubricator oils cylinder walls, piston pin and crank
pin. Nothing could be more simple or require less attention. Requires less space
than most engines of the single-cylinder type. While every effort has been made
to hold down weight, every part is strong enough to stand double the strain that
could ever be required.
Carried in Stock by the Sole Agents for Cailie Perfection Engines—
BENSON BROTHERS
Machine Tool Merchants,
51-53 Druitt St., Sydney. 60 Queen St., Melbourne.


The Bulletin
R-egistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Yol. 34.—N0. 1762.
THURSDAY. NOVEMBER, 20. 1913.
Price 6d.
BUYING-OFF THE BUMP.
Westralia has raised its third recent small loan, each one being on worse terms than its predecessor. The Premier, Mr. Seaddan. explains that if he had not accepted
the terms he sould have been compelled to close down upon railway construction, and upon the Agricultural Bank, the demands upon which were tremendous. —Daily paper.
THE CHORUS (to Cohen): “For Heavens sake don’t come off! See what a dreadful bump the child would get if you did!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Mac-
Leod, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets,
Mosman, for Tiie Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214
George Street, Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: City 2389.
City 2390.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum .. . . ..£l6O
Half-yearly .. .. .. 0 13 6
Quarterly 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tiie Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings Sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some
care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the liditor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part -of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the form
of Political. Social or other Articles, Verse, Short
Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Australian sub-
and not exceeding two columns in length, or,
say, SOOO words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Betters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. I Vhen MS. is forwarded
without stamps foi return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
Responsible for the preservation or transmission of
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction- — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
aritstic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Cordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa.— lhe Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son
Capetown and Johannesburg; and, others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
B C.j G. S. Forsyth and Co., Mil Hastings Street,
I ancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A.— Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
hews Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Day City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
hews Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; W. E. Lenehan. 585
29th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co
Bandolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn. Port Said, Egypt.
llong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Redder Street.
Ilong Kong.
Ceylon.—lE. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo. «
A Rents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (ivholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tas-
mania and New Zealand; and on account of Messrs.
Atkinson and Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide—at
>i/6 per doz. nett.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6|tn.
x 11/in., and gelatine transparencies will be for-
warded on application. Larger metal plates can be
supplied if desired
PostaKe Rates.
Single copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper):—Throughout the. Commonwealth. New Zea-
land, Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
llowe Islands, 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, 160 z., Id. Only one newspaper should be en-
closed in each packet — otherwise: Boz., Id., Bloz.
to lOoz., 21d.; lOoz. to 120 z., 3d. ; elsewhere, I/oz.,
Id,, and id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1913.
THE BEEF TRUST, AUSTRALIA AND
THE EMPIRE.
It does the average Australian Liberal a lot
of good to get away from Australia. He
finds in a little while that the distant Brit-
ish fields are not nearly so green as they
used to appear to him during his annual
Empire Day address at the Dog’s Leg Creek
Public School. He is made to realise that
th§ strikers of other lands are often more
unreasonable than those of Australia; also
that the poor are poorer, and the rain wetter,
and the cold colder, and things generally a
deal less alluring. About the same time he
begins, usually, to shed a lot of the political
clothing without which he would not have
appeared before an Australian audience for
a fortune. The working of this immutable
law has mysteriously changed G. H. Reid,
Freetrader and Conservative, until he not
only believes that one of the world’s biggest
Trusts is menacing protected Australia, but
that it threatens also to do what revenue-
tariffists have declared to be impossible
hitherto—namely, to get a footing in the
home of Cobdenism. Here are some extracts
from an interview with him :
The effect of all that I have learnt of the opera-
tions of the Beef Trust is that the danger from it is
increasing. . . .They [the Trust bosses] are prepared
to give any amount of money to secure tenancies of
any of the stalls at the Smithfield Meat Market in
London.... This obviously has a motive beyond ordin-
ary business. .. .The men most interested in the Aus-
tralian trade, as buyers from the pastoralists and
exporters to Great Britain, are very nervous concern-
ing the outlook in Australia and in London. They
say that a dead set is being made at them. They
are particularly nervous over the recent develop-
ments of the Swifts in Australia. I can quite under-
stand their anxiety from all I could learn in the
United States.... The Trust will be more than
liberal to the pastoralists in the beginning. But
if it manages to knock out Australian buyers, the
pastoralists will find they will have to pay back in
future low prices every penny of the enhanced price
obtained when the Trust first came upon the scene.
These Trusts are not out to benefit any but them-
selves. When they give a favor you may be sure
that you or someone else will have to pay for it—
and a good deal added, too.
In brief, G. H. Reid, who is in a unique
position to know, believes that the U.S. Beef
Trust is here, and that its main object is
to. corner the meat supply of the United
Kingdom—a fact which The Bulletin has
been mentioning repeatedly, amidst cries of
dissent and derision from Liberalism, for the
past three years.
The vast Yankee combine has no ijnme-
diate use, as this paper has often stated, for
the Australian trade. It is too small. The
objective is for the present the huge collec-
tive stomach of the United Kingdom. So
long as Australia remains free from the
Trust’s tentacles, Britain is safe. Not till
the Commonwealth and Maoriland —the only
cattle-raising countries outside Europe that
are free from the control of the Swifts and
the rest- —fall into line with the United States
and the Argentine, will the Beef Trust be
enabled to fix the price of meat daily for
Britain at Smithfield, as it now fixes it for
the U.S. in Chicago. G. H. Reid was not
speaking in his recent warning wholly as an
Australian. He was speaking more as one
who has spent five pleasant years in Eng-
land ; who has been hospitably treated there
and consequently feels a natural sentiment
of liking for the inhabitants ; and who hopes
to. return there. When he said that “any-
thing like Trust control of the poorest of
the people is repulsive to one,” he meant not
the Australian people but the British people.
It may be admitted frankly that the Aus-
tralian producer and consumer may not be-
gin to suffer from the operations of the Trust
for years to come. Yet nothing is surer than
that, ultimately, Australia will be required
to face its Calvary. As G. H. Reid, after
personal experience in America of a sort
that is not available to men outside official
positions, remarked :
These Trusts are not out to benefit any but them-
selves. Thev are out to crush anyone who competes
with them, and, once in command, to get as much
as they can.
* * » *
So from every point of view, whether as
a separate entity or as part of the Empire,
it behoves Australia to get busy in this mat-
ter. Let it be understood, from the very
jump, that, as the law stands, the Trust that
G. H. Reid fears, is immune from danger, so
far as the Commonwealth authorities are
concerned. According to the Privy Council
decision in the Vend case, the Government
is required to prove to the satisfaction of a
court of law that the combine which is being
proceeded against has acted “with intent to
restrain trade to the detriment of the
public.” If there was ever a chance to
prove intentional detriment it existed in the
Vend case. The Crown had here the ap-
parent good luck to get hold of the minute
books of the combine —documents which
proved to the satisfaction of normal human
beings,. if not to that of a court of law, that
the price of coal had been raised artificially
in four Australian States; that a shipping
firm which defied the Vend had been made
insolvent by it; that there had been short
delivery of coal on the part of the Vend, and
likewise delivery of coal of a sort that had
not been ordered. The Privy Council laid
it down that there was no intent to injure
the public in all this —though it was ’ ad-
mitted that the public had been injured, as
an incidental of the combine’s manoeuvres.
Similarly, the Privy Council would certainly
lay it down that intentional detriment was
not to be assumed if the Beef Trust raised
prices, against the local consumer ; drove
recalcitrant pastoralists, meat purveyors,
etc., out of the business; delivered bad
meat where good had been specified, and in
general behaved as Trusts mostly do when
they find themselves in a sufficiently strong
position. Nor could intentional detriment
be legally argued from the fact that the
Trust, having got a footing at Smithfield
markets, used its control of the Australian
trade to charge Britain’s 60-odd millions of
meat-eaters any price it pleased for one of
their staple articles of diet. Who will
question, in the above circumstances, that
the Federal law, as it stands, can be laughed
at with impunity by the combine which has
installed itself in Queensland?
In the course of debate in the Australian
Parliament the other day the Attorney-
General exclaimed :
You suggest that because somebody called Swift
is said to be a member of a Trust that carries on all
sorts of iniquities in America, that company should
not be allowed to operate in Queensland, as" long as
it observes the law?
Irvine was plainly scandalised at the bare
idea that Parliament should “exercise its
power against particular persons,” or deal
injuriously with any individual company “so
long as it observes the law.” Yet here is
the germ of the one scheme that is likely to
prove effective in scotching the dan-
gerous combine that menaces not only Aus-
tralia, but the United Kingdom as well.
The indictment of G. H. Reid suggests that
no measures can well be too strong. Recent
history shows that none that we have at our
command are of the least avail. In
such circumstances it would be per-
fectly legitimate for the Australian
Parliament to pass a special Act in-
sisting that any business carried on by
Swifts, Armours and the rest of the com-
bine-members, either ■ personally or through
their agents, should be deemed to be a Trust
till the contrary is proved. This would force
the. parties into a witness-box with all their
business documents, to disclose on oath
exactly what they are up to. It may be a
drastic measure, but there are some things
that can only be assailed with heavy
weapons—a reason why people never go
tieer-hunting with air-guns.
HOUSE FAMINE.
In its struggles with the problem of the
Increased Cost of Living, Justice Heydon’s
Court, sitting in Sydney, lately got as far
as the matter of house famine. This was
interesting, being in some degree a local
business which might possibly be controlled
by local legislation, whereas the inquiry
into the increased cost of food was, to a
great extent, international, and to some
extent Plain Drivel. The world’s population
is increasing faster than the world’s food
supply. There are now at least eight
populous countries bidding for the surplus
victuals of those countries which have a
surplus, whereas 70 years ago there was
only one—sometimes not even one. The
buying countries are becoming more and
the selling ones are growing less. The
dealer won’t sell material for a loaf for
2d. in Sydney if London is holding out a
claw-like hand with 4d. in it. And a coun-
try which has to send away such a heap
ot substance to pay interest on its
foreign debt should be the last to complain
if prices go up so that 14 bushels of wheat
will pay interest on £lOO worth of lOU
instead of 28 bushels being required. When
a country has got into the blessed condition
of paying its foreign bills with much less
gram than of old, any inquiry into the
matter is a case of touching the paint to
see if it is dry, or blowing down the gun to
see if it is loaded, or looking into the Ark
like the famous men of Beth-shemesh to
discover if it contains any luggage, or ex-
ploring the Holy of Holies as Pompey did
in one of his inflated moments, after which
he had no more luck. Doubtless something
heroic might be done if the Australian
Government constituted itself the sole buyer,
at a fixed price, of everything in the way of
food that Australia produces, and sold to
the local consumer at a low figure, and sold
f. e surplus to the foreign consumer at a
high figure, and thus made two distinct
prices. But even if the Government which
attempted the scheme didn’t happen to be
rushed with an axe by the maddened pro-
ducer, the scheme would require such a vast
organisation that it is out of the range of
immediate politics. In a thinly peopled
land where many people don’t even see the
Government once in six months a public
monopoly of food would be an elaborate
business.
Still, as the writer was trying to men-
tion before he drifted away into a tangled
waste of side issues, the N.S.W. Cost of
laving Commission lately reached the ques-
tion of house famine. That is to say, it
reached the question of house famine in
Sydney that being the only place which
sufters from the disease to any great extent.
(Bourke, for instance, has got tenant
™me, and a person who even looks as
though he might want a house has to keep
landlords off with a gun.) Rents in the
suburbs of the Ma capital have an upward
tendency. Landlords, just like wharf lab-
orers and grocers and auctioneers, take as
much as they can get, and as houses aren’t
increasing in proportion to the increase of
population landlords can sometimes get a
good deal. The bloated owner in these days of
corpulence is unusually arrogant about re-
pairs, which, after all, is a verv ancient
and frequent symptom in times" of pros-
perity. Between Antiochus, of Syria, who
was so blinded by prosperity as to think he
could blot out Rome, and John Smith, of
Botany, who, in the madness of his pride,
adds 2s. 6d. to the rent of the dilapidated
three-roomed wooden cottage, the difference
is only one of degree. The same might be
said of Ajax defying the lightning at one
end of the scale, and Patrick Hogan defy-
ing the Arbitration Court at the other
Then, again, it is alleged, on the best of
authority, that very many high-priced
hovels in Sydney and its suburbs should be
written off as uninhabitable. They certainly
should—whole streets, if not whole munici-
palities of them. But they are the natural
result of a squalid casual Legislature, and
a municipal system which allows some 40
petty collections of mayors and aldermen
and town clerks to run a great city in their
own petty and incompetent way. Very few
peonle are much better than they are com-
pelled to be, and the landlord is a case in
point.
* * *
If the house famine wasn’t so acute the
pressure of competition would drive the
Jaudlord to reform, despite the slackness of
the 40 municipal councils and the sluggish
habits of the State Legislature. But the
scarcity is here, and must be reckoned with.
The frantic borrow and boom and conges-
tion policy of the Holman-McGowen
Government has set Sydney growing at an
unparalleled rate. The borrow and the
boom and the expansion pushed the price of
allotments sky-high a year or two ago,
though they are hardly so sky-high to-day,
for the boom is obviously beginning to
crack in places. The sudden demand for
high-priced labor on public works paid for
out of loans, and the general boom effect,
made toilers scarce and dear. Everything
wa* inflated and sudden and artificial'. The
house-shark considered the possibilities in-
volved in building cottages on top-price
allotments, with top-price labor and top-
price materials, and then letting them at
slump rates when the loan-boom perished.
He considered the chances of a Fair Rents
Court, which annoyed him greatly, seeing
that he wanted unfair rents as long as he
could get them. He viewed the prospect of
building for a fast-growing population,
which might soon be a falling population.
Then a great many of him sat down hard
on the houses he already possessed, and ab-
stained from repairs.
In ancient days Jacob, who is described
as a smooth man and probably knew his
way about in consequence, dwelt in tents.
He wasn’t troubled by the spasmodic rise
in the hire of a three-roomed wooden shack
at Botany. Now the tent-dwelling habit
has, to a great extent, died out, and the
rent of the shack is a matter of conse-
quence. Until we have public ownership of
cities, and the closed ports are opened, and
there is more than one big city in each
State for the worker to live in, and Govern-
ments cease to make sudden booms by
means of sudden loan frenzies, and leave off
constructing sudden slumps by means of
sudden failures in loan flotation, rent must
needs be a matter of shocking unreliability.
The landlord is by nature a beast of nrev
yet there are excuses for his prey and hU
beastliness. The grocer and the butcher
can cease giving credit to the man who
doesn t pay, and write off the old bad debt
and the man who doesn’t pay seldom comes
along and wrecks the shop because of the
stoppage of supplies. The landlord must
keep on giving credit to his bad tenant until
he can get him out by lengthy legal process
and if the tenant uses the back fence for
firewood in the interval there is little re
dress, for the tenant can always sav that
the fence was destroyed by the bov next
door The private landlord is a gambler
tor high stakes, and like most experienced
gamblers he is cautious. Therefore he is
apt to hold off when the tail end of the
boom is in sight, and the tail end of the
•N.b.W. loan boom is visible nowadays to
the naked eye. Even ex-Premier McGowen
who has always had a craze for putting his
honest savings into house property isn’t
building much at present.
LIBERALISM GETS ANOTHER
INSTALMENT OF SENSE.
The Commissioner who was appointed to
inquire into the working of Industrial Arbi-
tration in N. S. Wales presented his report
last week. There is nothing revolutionary
about the proposals which he makes, nor
are his comments on the existing industrial
situation distinguished by novelty. Most
of his suggestions and criticisms are, in-
deed, years old. Yet they are startling by
reason of their source, and by the reception
they have met with in unexpected quarters.
Had he made the more important of them in
the days when John See was Premier, he
would have been condemned by Liberalism
for a madman ; and had he voiced some of
them during the many elections and bye-
elections which were fought largely on the
Arbitration issue he would have been de-
scribed as an Anarchist. As a case in point,
Commissioner Piddington disparages the
clumsy Wages Boards system—a system on
which Liberalism based the whole of its
hopes a few years ago. Also he recommends
the appointment of more Arbitration Judges.
And finally he expresses the opinion that
arbitration, though it has not prevented
every strike (any more than our penal laws
have prevented every crime), has been, on
the whole, a success. Whereat the S. M.
Herald, the one-time deadliest foe of this
variety of “Socialism” :
It is satisfactory to learn that, despite all the
assertions that arbitration has proved a failure, there
is no considerable body of opinion among employers
or employees in favor of abandoning it.
Further:—
It is satisfactory that the Commissioner does not
find our present arbitration system, evolved with so
much labor, to be all in vain, but that he thinks
that with a few modifications it can be made to
fulfil its purpose successfully.
Which is equivalent, really, to the statement
that Liberalism is delighted to find that its
original criticisms of this vast reform prove
Liberalism to be a short-sighted ass.
* * * *
The earlier history of the movement, when
read in relation to the present position, illu-
minates brightly the absurdity of paying
serious attention to Toryism’s fears and
protests and warnings on any question. In
1904 the See Administration announced in
the N.S.W. Legislative Assembly its inten-
tion to amend the then Act. It proposed,
in the first place, to appoint two Arbitra-
tion Judges instead of one. It suggested
that they should be given larger powers;
amongst others, the power to appoint sub-
sidiary tribunals to deal with industrial
details—those details which, as Commissioner
Piddington notes, are continually getting in
the way of useful work at the present time.
And thirdly, and chiefly, it proposed to allow
industrial agreements to be made privately
and without the parties being required to go
before the Courts. This, of course, was the
original intention of Parliament and of the
framers of the Act. Unfortunately, that
most formidable adversary, Chief Justice
Griffith, defeated it. A certain agreement
had been made in amicable privacy between
an employer on the one hand and
a set of employees on the other; and it had
been registered as such in the Industrial
Arbitration Court. One of the parties asked
the Court to make it a common rule of the
industry. An employer in the particular line
of business affected took out a prohibition
order. The N. S. Wales Full Court, pre-
sided over by the late Chief Justice Darley,
held that voluntary agreements were in
every way legal under the Act, and bumped
out the protesting employer accordingly. He
went to the High Court, which said that it
was not permissible for employers and em-
ployees to make an industrial agreement be-
tween themselves unless there had previously
been an industrial dispute ; also that an in-
dustrial agreement could not be enforced by
means of a common rule. Up to this time
fully twQrthirds of the State’s employers
and employees had been toiling, with com-
plete satisfaction to all concerned, under
voluntarily-made agreements. The per-
nicious, not to say insane, effect of Grif-
fith’s decision was to drive the whole of
them to court, with the result that the busi-
ness of that institution was thrown into a
state of chaos, and that of the general com-
munity likewise. And every day, and every
week from the date of the decision in ques-
tion, the situation got worse.
It was at this critical stage that the Party
Government issue obtruded itself —a chronic
habit, by the way. with that most deplorable
issue. The insanity of arbitration in all its
forms was as much a battle-cry of Liberalism
in those days as the imbecility of local
defence was to become a while later. The
Act was left unamended by the Carruthers
Government (which succeeded the See
Administration) as a matter of political tac-
tics ; and it was administered with deliberate
lack of sympathy, in the hope that it would
break down completely, and thus discourage
the electors with the whole principle of
arbitration. Meanwhile the Liberal press
pounded fiercely at the Act with the same
object, and at every Liberal meeting and in
every prominent club and pub the futility
of arbitration and the advisability of getting
back to the grand old strike method of
settling differences were insisted on vehe-
mently. The campaign was a failure, to a
certain extent, nevertheless. The common
sense of the constituencies triumphed, inas-


Extraordinary Announcement to Agents.
Christmas Edition of
The Bulletin, 1913.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE that the
CHRISTMAS NUMBER of “THE
BULLETIN” will be an EXTRA
and SPECIAL ISSUE.
Date of Publication: December 13, 1913.
This SPECIAL NUMBER will con-
tain high-class Stories, Verse and other
Literary Contributions from foremost
Australasian writers.
The Illustrations will be supplied by
the popular Bulletin artists, and
others in the front rank of the artistic
world.
The Ordinary Issue of THE BULLETIN
will be published on the usual date.
Agents are requested to note
that, av* the Christmas Number of
“The Bulletin” is now going to
press, the orders that reach us from
now on will be treated in order of
priority.
much as a verdict, too clear and definite to
be disregarded by any office-seeking politician
of sense, was delivered, requiring, if not the
particular form of arbitration then in vogue,
at least some form of the alleged insanity.
Liberalism then bowed its head and intro-
duced the Wages Board system on the expiry
bv effluxion of time of the original Arbitra-
tion Act. . * »
Here, then, is a case where the whole
gamut of conservative inconsistency has
been negotiated. Arbitration is condemned
in the beginning as wildly impracticable,
Socialistic, and in every way infamous.
After determined efforts have been made to
kill it, Liberalism accepts it grudgingly, and
ultimately dowers the State with it in an
emasculated form. The final stage is for
this amazing party to announce, by its jour-
nalistic spokesmen, that arbitration of the
whole-hearted, comprehensive brand which
was advocated by alleged anarchists nine
years ago is the only thing to save the country
—a form of arbitration that puts several
Judges at the head of affairs ; that practi-
cally disregards the “free worker” ; and that
makes the hated principle of preference to
unionists an essential to success. It is this
sort of thing that encourages vastly
the advocates of progressive measures, inas-
much as it enables them to realise that in
due time such reforms as Unification and
genuine decentralisation will be advocated
by the party that has fought them most bit-
terly hitherto.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Coining Liquor Polls in N. S.
Wales.
The triennial clamor prior to the taking of
the local option polls in N. S. Wales is
over the land once more, and all is vague
argument and confusion of facts and figures.
As in the political party system and the
strike lunacy, so in the liquor struggle, the
general public is a secondary consideration.
The No-license cranks are fighting like fury
to batten up the bars, ostensibly because
they are bars; anyhow, their chief gunner
(the Rev. Hammond) fired a volley the
other night in. the Town Hail, to the effect
that it was not the desire of the Alliance
to interfere with the private drinking habits
of the people. Which is plain deception or
rank folly- In Maoriland, while they
were working up their strength, the
No-license leaders encouraged the popu-
lace to believe that the fight was
only against the public bars, and
the blue-ribbon Jeremiah who went around
wailing for the whole hog of Prohibition
was urged to bag his head and not spoil
the pitch. But as soon as the pitch was
ready, or the time was ripe, or the potato
cooked, or something, there was a prompt
call to the politicians to stand and de-
liver national prohibition as an issue on the
ballot paper, or lose their political exist-
ence. That much is evidence of deception
in the statement that the No-license party
is “not out to interfere with the private
habits of the people, but to endeavor to
remove the public sale of liquor.” If there
is no deception, then the scheme must be to
concentrate the guzzling of liquor in the
homes of the people; and if that is the policy
of the N. S. Wales Alliance, The Bulletin
hastens to the grindstone with its biggest
axe. On the other side, the liquor trade is
battling like a one-eyed giant for the preser-
vation of its own business and the hundreds
of thousands of pounds sunk in it. So the
mere voter is given a choice of voting for
the fellow who wants to shut the licensed
drinking houses and the person who desires
to keep them open. As to whether the
public would like to express an opinion on
any other phase of the great liquor ques-
tion, nobody seems to care a tinker’s panni-
kin. Thousands of citizens would vote for
a trial of State or municipal sale and con-
trol of alcohol if an opportunity were given ;
but as (11 the No-license party would howl
in anguish at such an issue being offered
to the voter on any pretence; and (2) the
brewery party would elevate an ear to it
only if it tinkled with a promise of com-
pensation ; and (3) the politician who lives
by votes is afraid of the big battalions,_ the
State-control advocates are disfranchised.
Thus local option, to at least that extent,
is a fraud. And its results are a fraud as
they stand. They are a fraud in the
United States, Canada and Maoriland; and
they would be a fraud in Australia. Side
by side with a spreading area of closed bars
in the Land of the Wooden Nutmeg and the
ex-home of the Moa, the consumption of
liquor has steadily increased. In Maine
(U.S.) the law of prohibition can be car-
ried out only in complaisant rural districts.
A well-known prohibition sheriff in that
State, Rev. S. F. Pearson, put this on
record:—
We got the law.... And then we said, “We are
safe now. The law will protect us.’’....What has
been done? With the law have we been able to
abolish the saloons? No! Drunkenness is on the
increase, especially among the young men. We are
utterly powerless to take the saloon away from
drinking men.
In the towns, such as Portland, the asinine
law sits crowned with a fool’s cap. Arthur
von Briesen, president of the Legal Aid
Society of New York, in the course of an
address at the end of 1910, described Port-
land as “a. city of Jaw-breakers.” Admiral
Evans, of the U.S. Navy, declared to the
New York World that nowhere did he
have such trouble with drunken sailors as
in the harbors of Portland. In Maoriland,
the drink bill has grown from £2.265,900
to £4,081,162 since Na-license became the
fashion nearly 20 years ago. In 1895,
with only one “dry” electorate, the
expenditure per inhabitant was £3 os. 5d.;
in 1912, with 12, it was £3 14s. llid. It
has been argued by No-license advocates
that the value of liquor consumed in the
barless areas is not a quarter as much as it
is in the districts where the bars are open.
Buj; there is no way of getting at the posi-
tion. For instance, if No-license were car-
ried in the King division in Sydney, the
amount of liquor taken into and consumed
there by the residents (presuming it could
be checked —which it can t) would be vastly
reduced. But that wouldn’t account by a
long way for the drinks purchased by King
division residents while on pleasure or busi-
ness in adjacent “wet” divisions; So in
Maoriland ; and there are all sorts of other
channels through which alcohol runs un-
checked into the arid places. Sly grog is
one of the worst, although it may not be
one of the most prolific. And there are no
means of learning the extent of it. Yet
this much is ascertainable from the Year
Book for 1912 —the fines inflicted in 1910
throughout the Dominion amounted to
£1860; in 1911 they blew up to £2670. If
the object of the Alliance is to dis-
cover the effect upon a country when
its liquor is cut off there is only
one way to do it. That is to prohibit
the sale, manufacture, importation and con-
sumption of every kind and breed of in-
toxicating drink. It would be a stupendous
job, but it might be done with an army of
spies, informers, police, coast-guardsmen,
Customs officials, etc. If that is not the
object of all the rumpus, much valuable
time is being wasted. Any scheme which
merely closes the bars on one side of the
street and leaves them open on the other,
or closes them on both sides of the street
and starts off an endless procession of kegs,
barrels, bottles, flasks, demijohns, cases and
so on to private houses, “blind tigers,” sea-
shore caves, vacant lots and dens of all de-
scriptions is a fool of a scheme, and no
solution of the liquor problem at all.
On the Danger of Investing All Police-
men with Imperishable Haloes.
This paper has no disrespect whatever for
the Svdney policeman. Considering his pay
and his fewness, he does rather creditably,
year in, year out. But he is not an arch-
angel; in fact, he is rarely so much as an
ordinary hedge-saint, and for magistrates to
treat him as though he were is fraught with
all sorts of danger to law-abiding citizens.
Consider, as a horrible example, a legal
disturbance which was staged at the Cen-
tral Police Court the other day. Constable
J. H. Wilson (14st. 121 b.) charged a con-
tractor named Ward (7st. 131 b.) with hav-
ing wantonly assaulted him while under
the spell of liquor. Ward’s rebutting
story was, briefly, as follows. He was on aLa
Perouse tram, in a condition of utter sobriety.
Wilson, who was also on the tram, was
in uniform, likewise, so Ward says, in drink.
He used (still according to Ward’s story)
an entire box of matches in a futile effort
to light his pipe, and in other ways adver-
tised his condition to the derisive multi-
tude. Ward betrayed a certain pardonable
merriment. Wilson left his own compart-
ment And came to Ward’s. Arrived there
he addressed unprintable remarks to the
seven-stone citizen, threatened to arrest
him, smote him about the head, and ulti-
mately did arrest and charge him as above-
mentioned. Now, the writer doesn’t pretend
to have been at the hearing. He has nothing
but a newspaper report to go on. He well
appreciates that one witness may create a
good impression and another the reverse,
and that the magistrate’s decision may be
biased quite legitimately thereby. But
in this Ward-WiLson affray, unless what
look like ample reports are grossly mislead-
ing, there seems to have been no room for
doubt as to who was the inebriated nuisance,
and who the inoffensive and sober citizen. A
number of total strangers—amongst them
the conductor of the tram, the driver, and
half a dozen passengers—testified that Ward
did, nothing of a provocative nature except
to warn the person whose matches were
being borrowed that he was in for a match-
famine, or waggish words to that effect. On
the other hand, they swore —as one witness,
practically —that Wilson was drunk, that
he came into Ward’s car and hit him, that
his language was awful, and that his action
in arresting Ward was utterly uncalled for
and unjust. Incidentally, the the tramway
emuloyees swore that Wilson had tried
later |p square them. W ILSON called not
one single witness from the tram to speak
on his behalf; but he got a couple of doc-
tors and two pdliqemen to say that, when
they sa ic him (whicfji was some time after
tli'e row), he was sober. These same autho-
rities, by the way, were agreed on the point
that Ward was also sober. In order,
therefore, for the jpffigistrate to be able to
swallow Wii.soN'st version of the affair, he
was required to bfelieve (1) thgt a 7-stone
citizen, who was sober, wantonly hurled
himself at a 14-stone constable in uniform,
poured obscene language all over him, and
hit him with an umbrella; (2) that the
constable had done nothing to merit the
assault; (3) that two reputable tram at-
tendants, and a number of presumably re-
putable tram-travellers, perjured themselves
in defence of a quarrelsome little man whom
they did not know from Abraham ; (4)
that the same people conspired together to
ruin a stainless policeman who had already
been sorely mishandled in the execution of
his duty; 15) that, though the policeman
did not produce so much as one human
being, respectable or otherwise, out of the
whole tram-load, to stand up on liis behalf,
and say that the others were liars and
criminals, he was, nevertheless, a sober officer
who had acted correctly throughout. Yet Mr.
Smithers, S.M., was able to find, “on the
evidence of the doctor” (who, as aforesaid,
had not seen the constable till after that
most sobering of experiences, a public row),
that Wilson was sober. Also, he felt
called upon to hand him a warm testi-
monial on the subject of his “absolute so-
briety.” And though he discharged the
accused, he let it be understood that his
(the accused’s) conduct had laid him open
to profound suspicion; and at least one of
the latter’s witnesses was warned gravely
that he had “overstated the case.” The
absurdly exaggerated attention which most
Sydney magistrates pay to the evidence of
constables has been a growing scandal for
some time. In the case under discussion, it
seems that the limit has about been reached.
If a policeman can earn a public testi-
monial from the Bench after behaving as
witnesses swore Wilson behaved, he can
do pretty well anything of a violent nature
with complete impunity. And that state of
affairs constitutes a very serious peril to
the frequent sort of citizen to whom so much
as one police-court expose may mean ruin.
The Nationalisation of Medicine.
A Collins-street doctor —and a confessed
Tory at that —writing recently to the Age,
roundly condemned the Cook Govern-
ment’s Insurance scheme on the ground that
it is designed to make provision only for
that section of the population which mostly
is able and willing to make provision for it-
self, while neglecting the “uninsurable
class”—the nomads and casual workers, who
at present lean, to a great extent, on char-
ity. Furthermore, the Cook scheme must
hugely and inequitably advantage the in-
surable class by making employers and
the State pay the greater part of the said
classes’ sick benefits. Wherefore the
Anti-Socialist medico declared straight
out for socialised medicine, backing
up his proposition by these axioms and de-
ductions : —Nearly all disease originates in
the poorer sections of the population, the un-
insurables; filth and filth infection cause
nine-tenths of the preventable deaths occur-
ring before the age of 65; the uninsurable
citizen is a constant menace to the public
health ; it is impossible for a community to
be healthy so long as the poorer citizens are
afflicted; therefore all efforts to ameliorate
society should concern themselves with the
eradication of disease rather than with its
mere treatment. To carry out such a policy
the 6000 doctors in Australia should, he
believes, be organised into an army of
health, as public servants. Starting such
public servants at, say, £2OO a year, work-
ing up through an average of £4OO per an-
num to a maximum of, say, £l5OO, and with
the inducement of much more highly-paid
administrative positions, worth from £3OOO
to £5OOO, this would mean an annual outlay
by the State of between £2,500,000 and
£3,000,000. It looks a large sum, but more
than that is paid now. It would give an
average of one doctor to every 800 persons—
a better service than that of any other
country. And they would be preventive,
instead of mere curative, agents. To put
the item of cost another way, it would mean
6d. per head per week of the adult popula-
tion, while a further 3d. per head would
finance all our existing hospitals and pro-
vide every district section of the national
medical service with an up-to-date, highly-
equipped receiving hospital and clinic. The
benefits would be a gift at the price, for
10 years of this preventive system of fighting
disease would see much of our prevailing
disease and destitution disappear, and our
death-rate would sink to the irreducible
minimum. It is a fine, large vision* -jand
nothing stands in the way of its realisation
except ancient custom and a lack of educa-
tion.
♦
Pubs and a Great Opportunity.
“Larrakeeyah” (who knows his Northern
Territory) writes: —
I see that Dr. Gilruth has been decrying the
hotel accommodation of the Northern Territory. In
a sense he does well to be angry. But why doesn’t
he do something to procure a change for the better?
In March, 1912, when it was known that a Parlia-
mentary party was coming up this way, a movement
was set on foot to petition the Government for State
hotels. Why doesn’t Gilruth throw all his weight
in this direction ? Many of us in the N.T.—not
Wowsers, or teetotal cranks, or wild-eyed Socialists
or other freaks, but just plain, observant citizens —
are all for complete State control of the importation
and sale of intoxicants, with the erection of State
hotels where required, and compensation to existing
businesses. This movement is, however, bitterly
opposed by the greater part of the local A.W.A.
The ground of Socialist opposition to a Socialist
measure would be difficult to define., but these seem
to be the most logical of the objections: (1) It
is supported by some business men who are known
to be anti-Socialists; (2) it is supported by some
known-to-be total abstainers, iwiuding the Anglican
and Methodist parsons. It is felt that only drunks
should hic-cough in support of such a measure, and
that anything supported by parsons should be opposed
on principle. And so the edifying spectacle has been
presented of a Socialist audience pelting the advo-
cates of a Socialistic measure. If the Socialist party
has any faith in its own principles, the Northern
Territory offers a unique opportunity for carrying
out the policy of State control in its entirety. The
population is small, licensed houses comparatively
few, and oompensation as yet a simple problem.
Isolated State hotels in competition with Private
Enterprise do not solve the problem ; but, if firmly
and wisely managed, a complete system of State-con-
trolled liquor traffic in the Northern Territory should
be an object-lesson to Australia. It would strike a
deadly blow at the sly-grog sellers (mostly Chinese)
who flourish locally, and whom no amount of police
regulation can suppress. It is a disgraceful truth
that the Chinaman waxes fat in his illicit trade by
the support of many N.T. workers. In fact, he
never before reaped such a harvest as he has since
the advent of large numbers of White Australians
who, though they would “down tools” if asked to
work with a Chinaman, do not scruple to enter his
den and sell their principles for the difference
between the publican’s and the Chow’s bottle of
beer —about 2d. Under a system in which the State
is the sole importer of liquor the most lucrative
trade the Chinaman has in the country would be
taken from him. State control is not prohibition.
The. latter encourages the smuggler; the. former
1 leaves no room for him, for it meets all reasonable
demands, and guarantees purity of quality and fair-
ness of dealing. It is to be hoped that when
Andrew . Fisher cornea hack to office he will look
seriously at . this. question and have the courage
of his convictions, for the N.T. affords an oppor-
tunity to refute and confound the social reform
quack and demonstrate a sane and final solution of
a difficult problem.
“G.V.W.” : The Federation of Labor leaders
here in Maoriland have as much strategy
as a timber stack. For quite a while it
has been known that, with a sympathetic
Government in power, the federated em-
ployers have been anxious for a trial of
strength with the workers. And it is a
lamentable fact that a few rabid leaders
have hurried to oblige them. So far on the
road to insanity have some of these people
travelled that a faction of the strikers were
bent on preventing provisions being sent to
the seamen on the vessels anchored in Wel-
lington harbor. Yet, if the strike was to
succeed at all, the support of the seamen
was essential. The strikers had already
sufficient antagonism on hand as a result
of the slaughtermen’s strike. It was the
cocky who was made to suffer then instead
of the big meat cos., and the result is seen
in the enthusiasm with which large number?
of small farmers rushed to the help ol
Labor’s enemies in the subsequent trouble.
Again, when the strike leaders were refused
the use of the Basin Reserve by the Tory
Mayor of Wellington, they displayed more
of the same brand of tactlessness. To the
tune of the Marseillaise they marched to
the ground, tore down the locked gates,
trampled over everything, and badly dam-
aged a popular public reserve. Thus more
sympathy that might have proved valuable
was alienated. The subsequent speeches
made matters worse. One alleged leader
explained that the Federation of Labor had
been settling strikes for weeks, and it would
settle this one, even if “it meant setting the
country on fire.” He also announced that
“if special constables and members of the
Permanent Artillery were to be used he
would undertake to march on Wellington
with 10,000 or 15,000 armed men.” Like-
wise :
If the employers would act in a conciliatory spirit
it would be all right, but if they put on “scabs” to
load and discharge cargo into ships there would not
be any ships to leave port, and not a wharf for the
“scab” to work on.
I reckon the time is ripe to found a training
college for Labor leaders. There’s a whole
pyramid of business awaiting it.
- ♦
“O’Phimerty” on an unpleasant topic:—
As one who has had considerable experience in the
hospitals of Victoria and Tasmania, I am with The
Bulletin and against “Xylem” (B. 30/10/’l3), in
regard to venereal diseases. Says “Xylem” : “The
more we treat syphilis as a disease of shame, the
less victims will it demand of our children.” The
average young fellow who gratifies his sexual instincts
through impure means has no conception of the risks
to which he exposes himself. One such informed
me he had been told that the complaint was “no
worse than a cold.” He had never heard of ataxia,
the frequent and awful resultant of syphilis. He did
not know that there was any possibility of imparting
the disease to offspring. His ignorance is typical of
thousands. Does “Xylem” seriously contend that the
dispelling of such ignorance will increase impure
sexuality ? Certainly treat syphilis (and gonorrhoea,
too, which is nearly as bad in its results,
and even more difficult to eradicate) as a
disease of shame, but not in the sense of leaving
youth ignorant about it. Rather let shame be
rational, based on ascertained knowledge. I cannot
understand why this should increase the number of
victims, any more than why the posting of a warning
should increase the number of people who fall over a
precipice. While on the subject, may I add that the
great danger in the treatment of syphilis is that it
is so easy by mercurial medicines to get rid of its
external signs? The patient then imagines he is
cured, and absents himself from treatment. As a
matter of fact the cure has scarcely begun, and in
the course of a few years there is a tragic price to
pay, sometimes in the victim himself, sometimes in his
children, often in both. I have seen human suffering
in many forms ; but I have seen nothing more fearful
than the effects of congenital syphilis. No man should
be discharged as cured until he has had at least two
years’ constant attention, with a rigorous examination
at the end.
«.
The newly-formed Town Planning Associa-
tion of N. S. Wales deserves a hearty wel-
come, as it will bring together professional
and other kinds of brains which ought to
co-operate in turning the present ridiculous
plan of Inner Sydney topsy-turvy, while
laying down an Outer Sydney plan for the
future. Architects, surveyors, builders,
land-dealers, lawyers, planners and others
have the care of the new baby. The work
ahead of them is titanic. Sydney was
practically laid out by the convict wood-
cutter and the bullock waggon and the
wandering First-Fleet goat; hence a pic-
turesque bend in the main streets denotes
nothing more than the original site of a
bigger-than-usual gum-tree or a piece of
jutting sandstone. The objects of the new
body are:—
(1) To promote modern town planning in respect
of (a) reforming crudities in the older city plans,
(b) developing model suburbs, and (r) planting new
garden cities.
(2) Improvement of (a) civic architecture (Syd-
ney has a new stvle of architecture every 20ft..
nearly every one of them horrid), and (b) creating
manufacturing areas (Germany has done wonders in
this).
(3) Educating public opinion by lectures, giving
exhibitions, and by establishing a chair of town
planning in the Sydney University.
The sooner the work is put in hand, the
fewer the changes that will have to be made
when it is done.
The Flagship.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Out of the busy Quay
The evening ferries glide
On a swiftly-ebbing tide
That seeks the outer sea.
Oh ! grey hour of release!
Grey is the evening sea ;
The flagship’s majesty
Blends with this hour of peace.
Mighty and stark it lies
At the helpless city’s feet;
In office, mart and street
The guarded daylight dies.
The guarded daylight dies !
How many days will go
Into the dead past so?
Tell us, you wjio are wise.
Turret, and bridge, and mast!
The winging, wand’ring gull
Glimmers along the hull.
Will it come to this at last?
Here is the price of peace !
Grey ship that blends with grey
Waters that may not stay,
Your vigil may not cease!
Is it too much to pay?
Can Freedom be too deal ?
Say while the ship is here —
Is Peace worth while to-day?
Who can assess a dream—
The dream of peace come true?
Not till our Hour falls due
And the first shrapnels scream.
N.S.W.
WHITS AUSTRALIA.


Hotel Steyne,
Manly Beach, N.S.W.
Facing' the Pacific Ocean.
THE BRIGHTON OF AUSTRALIA.
SURF-BATHING RIGHT IN
FRONT OF THE HOTEL.
Excellent Golf Links in Close Proximity.
Hot Salt Water Baths Adjacent.
TERMS —From JI/6 Day;
3 Guineas Week.
INTEREST AWAKENED.
Interest awakened everywhere in the marvellous
cures of Cuts, Burns and Wounds with Dr. Sheldon’s
Magnetic Liniment. Is. 6d. and 3s. Obtainable
everywhere.*
810-SHOWMEN !
I HERE S only one BEST Biograph. We can prove
1 it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE.” Send for Cata-
logue. Sole agents: Jerdan’s. Ltd., 393 George Street,
Sydney.
The Famous PICTURE BLOCK THEATRES
SYDNEY’S PICTURE
CENTRE.
LONIALTH
continuous
COLONIAL.
CRYSTAIi PALACE.
UUi
I ' ""|Twr WORLD w MOT
memSMM
wns
&
&
'R3.
EMPRESS.
Famous
the World
over for their BUXURIOUS APPOINTMENTS.
SHOWING ONLY NEWEST 8 BEST PHOTO PLAYS.
Popular Prices —3d. to 1/-
Continuous —-11 a.m. to 11 p. m -
The Greater J. D. Williams Amusement Co., Ltd. W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
Archdeacon Boyce, of Sydney, passed the
polite contradiction to that cheap advertising
parson, S. D. Yarrington, on November 10.
In the previous week, this Yarrington
(the same who cried on the housetops that
he knew opium dens in Sydney where there
were white girls, but did not produce the
addresses of these places, so that the police
could break up the “joints”)—this Yarring-
ton, speaking at Granville, said :
The fact is revealed already that we have to face
the White Slave traffic in Sydney.
Whereafter Archdeacon Boyce informed
Premier Holman, as a responsible speaker
at a representative deputation, that
he - • not thin . k the .White Slave traffic yet
existed in Australia, but it might come into exist-
ence.
A couple of weeks ago, at Brisbane, the
sensation fakers of the Yarrington pattern
got a monumental set-back. One of them
wrote to the police that a mysterious man in
a motor-car had attempted to take away some
children who had just left a suburban State
School. The police ascertained (1) that the
car belonged to well-known people, who were
visiting a respectable resident’s At Home;
(2) that the school-girls, who had read the
contents of a circular (presumably issued by
some alleged Social Purity League), explain-
ing the repulsive business, ran back to the
school and told the teacher that “the White
Slave man was waiting on the road”; (3)
that the whole thing was baseless. Another
alleged attempted kidnapping of a girl
(crippled, at that) turned out to be an outing
for the child, with a number of others, at the
invitation of generous citizens and the Auto-
mobile Club. Another result of the afore-
mentioned lovely circulars of “warning” was
that two young girls attending one of the
high schools told a circumstantial story of
how a man in motor-car had attempted to
kidnap them. Under examination one of the
girls confessed that the. yarn was pure fiction,
prompted _ by the circulars referred to.
Another lie was that a girl had been asked
to deliver a letter at a certain address, and
that she had taken it home to her mother,
who opened it and read, “Detain bearer till
I come.” The police discovered that the
girl named in the complaint was a woman of
more than middle age, whose mother had
been dead for many years. This country
isn’t suffering from White Slavery; but its
share of mischievous and unpunished Black
Perjury appears to be phenomenal.
This is what actually happened to the
Hansard proof which was “corrected” by
Speaker Johnson, of the House of Reps.,
and led to the suspension of McGrath, of
Ballarat, and the disfranchisement of his
electorate for the rest of the session:—
Hansard Proof Slip, as
supplied to C. McDon-
ald, M.H.R., BEFORE
REVISION.
Mr. McDonald : On a
point of order, I main-
tain that the only ques-
tion before the House is
“That the House do now
adjourn,” but a totally
different question has
been put.
Mr. Speaker : Techni-
cally, it is as the hon-
orable member states.
After the decision “That
the Bill be now read a
third time” was arrived
at, the Bill was not read
a third time; but under
a misapprehension, I
take it, the Prime Min-
ister moved “That the
House do now adjourn.”
Hansard, as issued
AFTER REVISION.
Mr. McDonald: On a
point of order I main-
tain that the only ques-
tion before the House is
“That the House do now
adjourn”; but a totally
different question is, I
understand, beinsr put.
Mr. Speaker: Techni-
cally the position is as
the honorable member
states. After the deci-
sion “That the Bill be
now read a third time”
was arrived at, the
Bill was not read a third
time, but, under a mis-
apprehension, I take it,
the Prime Minister moved
“That the House do
now adjourn.” IN THE
CIRCUMSTANCES, I
DIRECTED THE CLERK
TO CARRY OUT THE
DECISION OF THE
HOUSE, AND TO READ
THE BILL A THIRD
TIME BEFORE I PUT
THE MOTION.
McGrath told his Ballarat constituents:
“We have absolute proof that the Speaker
has deliberately altered a Hansard proof.
The proof showed that the third reading of
the Loan Bill was not carried, according to
his own words, and he altered the proof to
make it read that it was carried.” From
that McGrath deduced that the Speaker
was “acting in a biased manner,” and was
“a bitter partisan.” McGrath’s deductions
may or may not be right: that is a matter
of opinion. But as to the alteration of the
nroof there can be no doubt whatever; and
the only question left is whether McGrath’s
conclusion wasn’t at least a reasonable one
in the circumstances. To do Johnson jus-
tice, he apparently saw that it wasn’t an un-
reasonable one, and “hoped that the matter
would be allowed to drop.” It was Cook
with the bare majority, who hungered for
the Oppositionist’s suspension. It was Cook
who moved so furiously for the suspension
that, when Johnson hoped that the matter
would be allowed to drop, he turned on the
Speaker, and threw at him quite as bad an
insult as McGrath’s. Johnson comes out
of the business none too well, but, compared
with Cook’s, his part in the affair is simply
glorious.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “The Confession.”
Her Majesty's Quinlan Grand Opera Co.
Palace “The Rebel." •
Adelphi “The Monk & the Woman.”
Criterion “Within the I.aw.”
iivoLi. • • • Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
National Amphitheatre Brennan-Fuller’s Vaudeville.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric 'v
Colonial I Continuous Pictures.
Empress )
Crystal Palace Continuous Pictures, etc.
Olympia )
Glaciarium f West s Pictures.
Town Hall (20th & 22nd) John McCormack.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Autumn Manoeuvres.”
Princess’s “Night Side of London.”
King’s “A Day at the Races.”
Royal “a Butterfly on the Wheel.”
Majestic Amalgamated Pictures.
Opera House Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
The Quinlans produced “Lohengrin” in
Sydney on Monday night, with the usual
cuts. The original version, without the
cuts, performed at Weimar in 1850, with
Liszt in charge, is said to have “made a
powerful impression.” No doubt it did.
The audience got home with the morning
beer, too stunned to give Mrs. Weimar any
satisfactory explanation of its long absence.
In the Sydney production Spencer Thomas,
in spite of a few weak patches, was excel-
lent as the knight with the swan millinery.
He sang the lyric gems that fell to his lot
as Lohengrin with more charm and refine-
ment than Coates, who bellowed the farewell
to Elsa in the 1912 production here. Jeanne
Brola was a misfit in the part of Elsa of
Brabant. Comparisons are brutal; still it
must be said that the lovely Polish soprano
Wayda, the distressful Brabant damsel of
the Melba production, left a record which
wipes out competition. William Anderson,
as King Henry the Fowler, looked like the
King of Tarts all on a summer’s day. He
assembled with his nobles, a motley crowd,
on the banks of the Scheldt. Henry was
his own area officer, whipping up recruits in
a deep, bass voice, when the troubles of
Elsa and the evil doings of Telramund
( Parker) and his wife Ortrud (Edna
Thornton) caused him to smack the trunk
of a tree three times with his sword. Gra-
ham Marr was the best herald within recent
memory. He was a large edition bound in
scarlet, and carefully sub-edited by Con-
ductor Eckhold. Lohengrin, who shot green
a n d ®^ ver lights from a sheath costume of
fish-plate armor, arrived in a small punt
drawn by the mystic Swan. This useful bird
was ordered to return (if Elsa played up)
about 10 to 11 p.m., and was more
punctual than the Bondi tram. Lohengrin
expects his best girl—whose champion he is
—to take him on trust. He expects too
much, and departs, by fowl ferry, as already
mentioned, in an exnuisite burst of music.
“THE GIRL OF THE GOLDEN WEST,”
AT HER MAJESTY'S, SYDNEY.
A TENOR TO THE GOOD
The girl (Jeanne Brola) cheats in her
gamble with the sheriff (Robert Parker) and
wins Spencer Thomas. He's a tenor.
for in this opera Wagner condescended to
be tuneful. The chorus voices in the wed-
ding scene were beautifully balanced; the
pages (in magenta stockings), who walked
round the bridal pair, with lighted tapers in
their hands, deserve a large bouquet apiece
for their fine, gleeful singing; the orchestra
under Eckhold was in its best Wagnerian
form; and the stage trumpeters showed
signs of improvement.
Puccini’s “Girl of the Golden West” is
bellowdrama pure and simple. The bellow
is supplied by the principals, who have a
stormy evening with the orchestra. Vog-
hera, who conducted it in last year’s pro-
duction, repeated his old offence of drowning
two-thirds of the vocalisation. Nevertheless
“Boys, I am Stony !” and such lyric snaps as
‘Poor Dog Tray” and “Your Old Grandma
Is No More,” rose above the bang of the
drum. Parker repeated his fine performance
as Ranee the Sheriff. Spencer Thomas (who
threatens to leap into prominence as a tenor
of consequence) was the piebald hero. Dick
Johnson, who is neither white nor black in
character, but just enough of both to be
adored by the Camp bar-maiden, Minnie.
Jeanne Brola is Minnie. This is her star
part, and she earned a truck-load of
flowers for her dashing efforts, through three
acts, to save the hero’s life. In a strong-
cast of T 8 persons, each singer showed a firm
determination to be heard above the uproar
of the Voghera department, even if he (or
she) had' to burst his (or her) windpipe.
The other first-night of the week was given
to “Cavalleria Rusticana” and “Pagliacci.”
The co. was happier in the first. The plump
d’Oisley was vocally satisfactory as
Turiddu, the village Lothario who has his
ear bitten (a cheery Sicilian way of settling
these matters) by the muleteer Alfio (Gra-
ham Marr). Jeanne Rrola was jealous in
the right key as the girl who loves Turiddu,
and faints to slow music when the ear-biter
slays Lothario for flirting with Mrs. Alfio.
Neither Mabel Dennis, as the frisky young
matron in question, nor Hilda Morris, as
d’Oisley’s stage mother, had many oppor-
tunities. The more important “Pagliacci”
was a poor production. Felice Lyne, as
Nedda, surrounded her bird-like trills with
a limited sense of its dramatic and vocal
possibilities. She looked like the best girl
in the Sunday-school, rehearsing for a break-
ing-up party. Francis Costa fought the
English language with mixed results in the
part of Canio, master of the troop of stroll-
ing players. The donkey who was
compulsorily trained made a brief appear-
ance with the arrival of the troop, and
shied at the front stalls before his exit.
Samuell, as the hunchback Tonio. sang the
Prologue so well that it remained the best
part of an indifferent effort to do justice to
Leoncavallo’s delightful music.
* * * »
“The Confession,” now being heard nightly
at Sydney Royal, is an emotional orgy. H.
H. Roberts, as Father Bartlett, the young
priest who is loaded early in the first act
“PAGLIACCI," AT HER MAJESTY'S,
SYDNEY.
Canto (Francis Costa) cures his better-haf
(Felice Lyne) of flirting.
with the jumpy murderer’s confession, is
the worst offender ; but it must be admitted
that he does his duty fairly by his sainted
part, which is practically all posing and
blessing. He has to look like a stained-glass
window and give a lifelike imitation of a
reluctant clerical ice-chest which contains
an indigestible secret. It is a tough job,
but the audience is always sympathetic, and
be gets through cleverly without
making his Reverence seem too much
of a prig. Eugenie Duggan, as sister
of tlie murdered man and fiancee of
the priest’s brother, who is wrongfully
accused, does not lighten the grief
much. She spends a good deal of hex-
time clinching and weeping in holts
with Marion Willis, the grey-haired
mother of the sainted father and the
accursed. During their worst mo-
ments together, the young Father
(who is really more of a son) looks
intolerably good in the background.
The comic relief to all this is sup-
posed to be supplied by Patsy Moran,
a well-brushed Bowery hunchback
who seems to own the rectory. But
inasmuch as Patsy is played by an
attractive and hard-working young
actress (Olive Wilton), he isn’t con-
vincing. Patsy is rather like an intrusive
Principal Boy. All hands appeal to Heaven at
frequent intervals and bless one another with
great unction on the slightest pretext. It be-
ing obviously impossible for the stage
Father Bartlett to divulge his awful secret,
the playgoer knows that Joseph Dumont,
the jumpy murderer above mentioned, is
doomed. By waiting patiently, he eventu-
ally learns that Dumont dies in record time
of consumption. There are various gaps in
the construction of the play; but the pro-
gramme’s statement that 70,000 people wit-
nessed it in Melbourne indicates how little
these technical faults matter to the religious
playgoer.
❖ *
These successful shows are too d —d
monotonous altogether. “Within the Law”
is still at the Criterion. (P.S. —Next week’s
notice will be even briefer than this.)
Owing to a cold which enabled him to
refrain from singing, Allen Doone, at the
Palace, did not put on “Mollie Bawn” on
Saturday as intended, but changed the bill
at the last moment, or within a stone’s throw
of it, to The Parish Priest.” This
play wherein Doone gets to hi« „ - the
work ; last time he played it in erioUs
unfeeling women in the stalls were so
come by Doone’s serious work that rh* T r '
had to be stopped as a protest On
day next/‘The Rebels” will b e stLed
the first time in Australia. It is nf g f d for
an Irish drama, built round incidents of*?!, 6 ’
rebellion of 98, and is expected to
appreciation than Doone has yet recS
for any play on his list—which' is sav?n d
good deal when all things (including Ini
sentiment) are considered. iUsh
❖ ❖ * jjc
Tomiorrow night will see the last
the Term of His Natural Life” at
Adelphi, and on Saturday there win J he
revival of The Monk aid the |S±LS
All protests, etc., should be lodged with
Advertising Manager. Adelphi IheaTJe S
later than to-morrow afternoon. ‘ not
There are four new names on the Tivni;
pay-hst this week. Rosa Roma, the G y 2
A 1011 mst, provides a very appetising n?J
*s> Jt up as tastefully as am-
other fiddler the Tiv. has had for a consider
able time. The Richards Bros., ring XT
bats are responsible for a turn that, though
short, is sufficiently strenuous for the 225
exacting admirer of muscle ; and Lily Evton
a chic vocal comedienne,” is above the aver
age of the imported comedienne, chic nr
otherwise. As the writer has no other cause
for ill-feeling against Lucille Savoy the
singing Venus ’ he merely remarks that the
description does its inventor infinite credit
* * *
There is a classic dog turn at the National
(Sydney) this week. It consists of Ted
Bailey and. his dogs posing as statuary
modelled on famous hunting pictures, and
is dedicated to the sportsmen of the
world. Man and animals are marble-
whitened. and the extraordinary apprecia-
tion of the various poses (the chase, acci-
dent, sickness, death, and so on) which the
three dogs exhibit is in the nature of a reve-
lation even to keen students of the canine.
At the Crystal Palace “The Feudists,” a
two-reel comedy, with John Bunny and Flora
Finch as the stars, provided entertainment
tor einemamacs who look for the bright side
of things. “The Australian Gazette,” as
usual, contained a fair assortment of sub-
jects, including, of course, the arrival of
George Reid ; but it did seem like rubbing it
in to make George chase “Hard Cash.” an
Edison film, across the sheet.
** * *
“Autumn Manoeuvres,” at Her Majesty’s
in Melbourne, is a musical specialty, very
passable, and repeatedly threatened with
originality. Certainly its music is not strik-
ingly remarkable, but there are moments of
genuine comedy in its satire on the British
Territorial, with his incompetence thick
upon him. Yet the joke is not always
against the amazing Captain Withers, who
inflicts his cheerful second-rateness on the
fashionable life of Ambermere Hall. Rather
he is calculated to score at the expense of his
patrician surroundings and win the sympa-
thies of the audience on the grounds of
superior humanity and mental balance. Any-
how, the mockery that might degrade him
in the eyes of an English mob rather elevates
, ln sight of an Australian crowd,
which hasn’t the other’s fine sense of caste.
Phil Smith plays this red-headed descendant
ot IS generations of grocers, the first big
role that Melbourne has yet seen him in. His
intermittent habit of being Smith instead of
W ithers is the only spot of mildew on an
otherwise realistic impersonation. A tre-
mendously romantic part is that of Captain
F alconer, who refuses to -stray across the
threshold of a former home which he had left
dark anger when it came into the hands
of a fair lady of his acquaintance. As shown
by Talleur Andrews he is a tuneful citizen
always,. though he seems to regard life more
as a painful duty than as a perfect pleasure,
and comports himself like the M.C. at an
undertakers’ picnic. Florence Young is
vocally pleasing as Alix Luttrell, but is
weak on the histrionic side. Celia Ghiloni
appears at her best as Lady Elleswater, and
gets her favorable impression in early. Miss
Lrunton gives a faithful picture of herself
in the pretty part of June Pomeroy, and
sings a somg in the third act that is the
essence of beguilement. Miss Vivien Talleur
dances effectively as the gypsy, Naomi. Of
the other ladies it only remains to be said
that, if Miss Hilda Vining would listen
intently to her singing as Lady Letty
Larkins, she might hear something to her
disadvantage. Robert Whyte, jun., is the
most imposing among the men who also ran.
His part is that of Major-General Pomeroy.
Reginald Roberts is Lieutenant Orde, repre-
sented as an ass who, if he lived on his wits,
would soon come to the end of his resources.
File male chorus is worth a word of appro-
val, and, as usual, MacCunn directs his
orchestral forces unimpeachably.
** * *
(( Doubt continues to exist as to whether
.‘A Day at the Races” at Melbourne King’s
is a subdued gee gee carnival or a study of
nationalities. The faint evidence of horse-
flesh on the one side and the noisy preval-
ence of a Dutchman, a Hebrew, two or


SARTO.
INJUNCTIONS AOAINST PASSING OFF.
LATEST CASE.—SCHWEPPES v. O’CONNOR.
In the Supreme Court, Queensland, before his Honor Mr. Justice Real and a jury of four.
(See Brisbane Couriers, August 27 to September 13, in which an Injunction was granted .j
During this case, which lasted 12 days, the following evidence was given, showing the
health-giving properties of Sarto and the amount of Sarsaparilla contained therein.
“George Alexander Byrn, member of the firm of Dixon and Byrn, assayers and
analysts, of Sydney, deposed that he had made analyses of a bottle of Sarto and a
bottle of ‘Sarsa.’ He found that ‘Sarto’ contained 11.47 per cent, of solids, .108 of
similicia, and the balance consisted of water and a small quantity of alcohol. Barsa
contained 11.15 of solids and .006 per cent, of similicia, and the balance consisted of
water and a small quantity of alcohol. There was, therefore, eighteen times as
much similicia in ‘Sarto’ as there was in ‘Sarsa. Similicia was the active
principle of sarsaparilla; it was a medicinal tonic. There were other properties
of sarsaparilla of medicinal value, but the active principle was similicia.
Mr Feez- “How does ‘Sarto’ compare with ‘Sarsa’ according to your analysis?
—“There is a' finer quality of sarsaparilla in ‘Sarto’ than there is in ‘Sarsa.’ ” “Is
it correct to sav that some sarsaparilla root may have no similicia at all. Yes.
“What does the presence of .108 per cent, of similicia indicate to you? — “That
only the best sarsaparilla root has been used in the preparation.’’ “Is that a
large or a small quantity for a drink of that kind?’’—“A very fair amount.’’
For All
Seasons
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS.
three Irishmen, and an almost complete set
of Amurkan “guys” on the other, rather
supports the idea that it is an ethnological
item, but The Bulletin isn’t certain.
Neither is manager Anderson, for that mat-
ter. All that William will swear to is that
the show is doing nicely at the pay-box.
* * *
Cyril Mackay concludes his sermons to
the heathen of Cripple Creek at Melbourne
Princess’s to-morrow night. On Saturday
the same hero will show up “The Night Side
of London with a numerous company
assisting in the exposure.
❖ ❖ ❖ >|C
At Melbourne Royal Peggy Admaston
continues to offer weak resistance to the
impassioned advances of Roderick Colling-
wood, what time her husband is making
suspicious inquiries over the ’phone. This
outside intrusion into a development where
even two are beginning to look like a crowd
is the one scene of genuine dramatic interest
in the play. In poignancy it excels the
much-advertised Divorce Court outburst,
which, apart from its displays of feminine
howling, merely serves to .tell the story over
again. It is rather interesting to note that
“A Butterfly on the Wheel” wins its support
through this habit of repeating itself, by an
emotional subterfuge, as it were.
si: * *
Du Calion is the present excellent joke of
the Opera House entertainment. Ilis con-
tinuous stream of talk while he balances
cleverly on a ladder shows a high-souled en-
deavor to entertain the audience under the
most trying circumstances. Bellora, the
mimic, has turned up again; Bonnie Leo-
nard is still looking like a nymph lifted off
a cigarette card ; while the Saxones are sing-
ing and dancing as before. As regards Gene
Greene, The Bulletin would accept him
es the Last Word in Ragtime even if he
didn’t take such a long time to reach it.
* * * 5);
A sensational circumstance at Melbourne
Olympia on Saturday was “A Message from
Headquarters,” showing a Yankee hero
coolly dodging the violence that Dago ven-
geance had designed for him. Similarly
exciting was “The Sixth Commandment.” a
Western Amurkan thriller with sudden
death imminent, but never happening.
“Dan Creegan’s Ghost” and “A Tender-
hearted Crook” were the best comedies ; and
the kinetophone broke out in several selec-
tions from “La Mascotte.”
H*
“Home Sweet Home” has been featured
at Melbourne Majestic, but a kangaroo hunt
per motor-car has been getting most applause
from the congregation. “My Lady of Idle-
ness” has also been popular, and the bio-
graph has had something further to say
on the overworked beauties of ancient
Venice. This week the Majestic is unreel-
ing “The Secret of the Bureau,” a Nordisk
drama full of love, jealousy and other human
failings.
Of this year’s 143rd art show in Mel-
bourne :
Dora Wilson is exhibiting 136 pastels and paint-
ings at the Athensum. The pastels form the most
interesting part of the show, and there can be no
doubt of the artist’s expertness in this medium.
“Dulce Domum” is an unusually large and ambitious
study, in which the effect of lamplight on a quartette
“AT CRIPPLE
CREEK ” (MEL-
BOURNE
PRINCESS'S J.
Cyril Mackay as
the noble Joe
Mayfield.
of naturally-grouped female figures is cleverly
handled. A strongly-drawn study of Oscar Rash as
the Moor who would a-wooing go, and a couple of
impressions of Genge are effective pieces of work;
and “The Lady Rowena,” “Sans Souci” and “Once
Upon a Time” are all charming, without being ex-
citing. A series of boy studies are, considering the
ability of the artist, strangely flat and uninterest-
ing, giving the impression that they have been ex-
ecuted with an ink roller and squashed in the pro-
cess. Of the oil paintings, “The Blue Girl” inspires
a subdued affection, tempered with regret that her
hands are so much less attractive than her feet ; and
of the water-colors, “Regrading the Road at Frank-
ston,” though quite different in theme and treat-
ment from most of the artist’s work, strikes this
viewer as best worth the money.
■jf * * $
Fred Niblo is doing capital work in Ade-
laide, which finds more personal magnetism
in him than in anybody else in his line
since Charles Arnold. His “Fortune
Hunter” works out thus : Idea, novel; treat-
ment, conventional; details, fresh and
charming; acting, good all round, two labori-
ous studies of village “character” excepted.
Williams and Rankin are doing good cornet
work at the Tivoli, where Dood.v is dancing
and his lady partner is talking, and the
Mullers are hoop-spinning, and Merian’s dogs
stalk or totter or leap through their tragic
story of love, jealousy and revenge, and the
Fanton athletes have just been added to a
strong bill. At the King’s, Forsyth and
Boyne have been giving a new and really
thrilling tabloid drama of violence and sur-
prise, “Jack the Rat.” The Crimson Ram-
blers continue their first part (with varia-
tions), and a lot of much-heralded new folks
are just moving in. The Dandies, Roland
Henry and Co., at the Exhibition Gardens,
began by showing that they could sing well;
now they are proving themselves funny, too.
Wondergraph has “Rrotea,” which succeeds
in being different frqm ordinary films; and
West’s show the .Battle of Gettysburg, which
is a fake to marvel at.
H*
From an Adelaide critic:—
The 16th “Federal” picture exhibition in Ade-
laide consists of Girls and Gums. Hans Heysen’s
“Red Gold” is rather a reaction from the fantastic
saplings he has delighted in. It is just two big
ironbarks (or their cousins), with cattle and land-
scape trimmings, bathed in a heavy sunlight glow.
To hail him as the Australian Turner, as some
already do, may be premature, but certainly his
coloring is superb. His water-colors mostly keep to
the same theme. Rose Lowcay and Mrs. Follen
Bishop (the latter staying now, with her distin-
guished husband, in Adelaide) bring their English
training to bear on the gum also, with conspicuous
success. Penleigh Boyd (Vic.) and W. J. Wil-
liams and Gwen Barringer (S.A.) tree up the
same bark ; and Gustave Barnes brings it with-
out difficultv into his view of Adelaide from
Montefiore Hill. Boyd shows also his St. Ives
(Royal Academy, 1912), in which he contrives to
make the little port look real Italian. Hayley
“A BUTTERFLY ON
THE WHEEL,” AT
MELBOURNE
ROYAL.
Lord Ellerdine.
The Judge.
Lever has sent out one big wharf-and-water canvas,
rather below his best form. Will Ashton is not
represented, though his .father, James A., has the
usual seascapes, careful and yet clever. Nicholls
Anderson (Vic.) depicts the great waste that is Can-
berra. The figure-studies (single figures, mostly)
are many, and good. Violet Teague (Vic.) has a fine
boy, standing against a light background; it seems
hardly credible that two big, harsh portraits of Mel-
bourne ladies can have come from the same brush.
Muir Auld (N.S.W.), Clewin Harcourt (Vic.) and
Archibald Collins (S.A.) score heavily in this line.
A feature of the show is a big batch of mostly-small
works from Brisbane, and from the Women Painters
of N.S.W. Gwendolyn Stanley (Q.) ambitiously
renders Delilah doing a Salome dance for Samson.
It is notable as one of the few attempts at dramatic
composition in the whole show. The best work
among the Sydney ladies is in quaint story-illustra-
tion, of the Rackham or Dulac type, by Ruby
Winckler and Nelle Rodd. The Art Gallery of S.A.
is understood to be “sitting on” the exhibition, with
a view to spending the usual few hundred pounds
in adding to its Australian Room.
If they have any perception at all, the
Peace Society (which is really the Society
for Unrestrained Violence) and the raging,
red-rag Socialists will soon lay down their
warlike tracts and peacefully accept the
compulsory-service idea like good citizens.
A Korean patriot dropped into Sydney last
week from San Francisco, where he edits a
paper called the New Korea. He told the
old, familiar story, i.e., that the state of the
peaceable Koreans, who didn’t worry about
defence till it was too late, is as near slavery
as the Japanese dare make it. The only
restraining influence is the fear of Russia ;
and even with that given in, the grip of the
conquerors on Korea’s throat is close up to
strangulation point. If two or three Koreans
meet together, the Japanese overlords see the
start of revolution and disperse the con-
spirators, who are probably talking about the
price of fish. Further, in order to make
dead-sure that the accursed warlike spirit
will never be kindled, such hymns as “On-
ward. Christian Soldiers” and “Stand Up
for Jesus” are prohibited. A gramophone
record of “Let Me Like a Soldier Fall” would
be sufficient to cause the arrest of a whole
social evening. When you tie up this pleas-
ant story with the testimony of the Vic-
torian police that the drills and military
discipline have practically killed the “push”
trouble, there doesn’t seem to be a scrap of
argument left for the upholders of universal
brotherhood and slackness.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Edward Maas (who ought to know, since he
married a daughter of the house of Rickards) tells in
“The Life Story of Harry Rickards,” recently prepared,
some entertaining vaudeville figures. Chung Ling
Soo (Robinson) got £4OO a week for eight shows of
50piin. each—the most money that the Tivoli man-
agement ever paid out to an individual artist. Walter
Kelly, the Virginian Judge, got £l5O a week for
his nigger yarns; Barnold collected £2OO weekly for
Drunken Dan and his sober pals; Little Tich got
£250 a week, and drew the money when he was at
sea as well; G. W. Hunter (comedian) got £6O
every pay-day, as against John Coleman’s £l5.
Julian Rose (Levinsky) was insulted with £175, and
Hackenschmidt had to drag along on £125. Chas.
Godfrey got £lOO in the days before salaries began
to soar. Peggy Pride’s little lot was £6O a week,
and Alice Leamar’s £4O. Biondi’s quick-changing
cost Rickards £125 weekly, and Carl Hertz was
down for £lOO. Hertz, by the way, always claimed
that he was the first man to introduce the cinema-
tograph to Australia, and Houdini (another Rickards’
importation) was the first man to “fly” here.
“Nil”: I want to say thanks for candid criticisms
of the imported opera co. It makes me feel justified
in having declined to add my name .to a list of
guarantors which was opened to induce the co. to
visit Adelaide. For years I have been howling in a
whisper for someone to get together an Aus-
tralian co. to produce grand opera. It is
much easier work than the production of knock-
about musical burlesque, and there are hundreds, if
not thousands, of good-looking, young, capable Aus-
tralians who could sing any (or most) of the im-
ported “artists” blind, deaf and bald-headed! This
writer has twice seen “Carmen” done by foreign
cos. On both occasions the title rSIe was taken by
a middle-aged lady of much tonnage who pranced
in a deliberate and tardigradous manner through the
“fascination” dance, and left no doubt in the mind
of at least one of the audience that Don Jose must
have been on a long sea trip, and had met Carmen
during his first wild jag when he came ashore. No
other excuse for his insanity seemed possible. Car-
men should be played—yes, played, —by a little
wisp of a hot-blooded, tantalising, irresistible Spanish
she-devil! And even if she can’t sing like Tetrazzini,
who Cares? Well, this scribe is never going to waste
an evening on “Carmen” done by imported grand-
opera pros, again. He’ll wait till someone wakes
up to the fact that if opera does not want acting, and
looks go for nought, then it is useless to waste time in
dressing. Whv not give the thing from the concert
platform ? Without there ! Bring me an Australian
grand opera company !
“St. Maori”: Busking companies in Maoriland are
having a precarious time of it during the strike.
Wellington is the jumping-off place in the North
for the South Island, and when the strikers took
charge of the wharves they wouldn’t allow any cargo
to be touched at all. Passengers’ luggage and mails
only were franked through the lines by the pickets.
When Dick Stewart, with the Royal Comics, came
along with half a hold full of scenery, he found that
while it could be unloaded by the theatre hands, if
it was slung up or handed over the bulwarks it
would be pulled to pieces. Wherefore it had to be
left behind. Since then the Comics have been play-
ing the “Quaker Girl,” “Sunshine Girl,” and “Miss
Hook” with the “Belle of New York” outfit (which
happened to have been shipped ahead) —and no one
has been much the wiser. For some reason or other
the strikers got confused over the item “wardrobe,”
and assuming that it meant the ballet-girls’ own
laceries, they let the stage clothes through. Chubby
Charlie Berkeley, in charge of the GenSe show, man-
aged better at Wellington. He harangued the Strike
Committee, told it some of his best stories, and paid
for numerous drinks; but the committee exhibited
magnificent solidarity, and hinted that it was as
much as its job was worth to sneak any cargo
through. Charlie, after sobbing quietly for an hour,
had a bright idea. They would stand the wardrobe
—right! With lightning speed he had the cloths
stripped off the battens, folded neatly, and stowed
into extra wardrobe baskets, dashed to Christchurch
to get new frames and dancing-stage made, and
returned smiling. So Genfie played with her own
scenery in Christchurch.
Three hundred men are working day and night
constructing “The White City,” Sydney’s new amuse-
ment ground. Everything is Australian-made;
nothing imported. Features will be a scenic railway
(run on the block system for safety) with nearly
two miles of rails, a water-canal 2000 ft. long. 12
boats for an underground “Wonderland,” a glass-
ware maze with 3000 ft. of plated mirror, in which
visitors can admire themselves in 38 attitudes simul-
taneously (the musical comedy girl will begin to
feel that she is getting a fair deal at last), and a
heap of other novelties. The show is to open with
a blaze (35,000 electric lamps) on the night of
November 29.
Geo. Willoughby promises Sydney the first Christ-
mas pantomime it has had for some years, with an
Australian principal boy (Carrie Moore) and a
book by A. E. Martin, a bright and frequent con-
tributor to The Bulletin. Lester Brown, a Yankee
with more reputation than accent, arrives bv the next
post to do the producing, and Wynn Jones has
already started training the chorus the way it
should go.
“J.F.H.”: The Australian who has the idea that
all English audiences must be big may be interested
to know that Pelissier, the just-dead leader of the
wonderfully successful “Follies,” told me that he
and they had played to as few as 12 people. This
midget house was at Freshwater, in the Isle of Wight
—the place where ex-G.-G. Tennyson lives. In my
own Australian day I remember making one of an
audience of eighth all told, in the hall of the
Mechanics’ Institute, Geelong. The performer was
the versatile Barlow, better known all over Australia
as the “Blue Tailed Fly.” If that wasn’t a record
house for smallness, it ought to be.
Ned Duggan (a partner. in the affluent
Bailey-Grant show these days) wouldn’t have this
story told for a whole property-room full of ginger
ale. Years ago, he was running a co. (George Mar-
low was a member of it) through the Smalls ot
N. S. Wales, and arrived at Oabbagetree to play
race-week with “The Ticket of Leave.” Duggan was
well enough known in the town, but some base scoun-
drel had passed the word along that he was stone-
broke. Hence, the pub proprietors were very sorry
that they were unable to give the co. accommodation,
owing to the crowd in for the races, etc., etc. It
was the old bellman who broke the news to Duggan.
(Spell-oh here while the echoes of the stricken actor s
language die away.) Then the great Inspiration.
Amongst the props, was a roll of dummy notes. These
Duggan grabbed, put on the outside the last nound-
note he possessed, clasped the lot with a band of
elastic, and meandered back to the Metropolitan bar.
With indignation streaming from him, he flashed his
wad of notes, flicked out the genuine one under the
boss’s nose, ordered drinks for the crowd, and then
cursed the hound who had spread the yarn that he
was broke. “Well, Mr. Duggan,” said the pub-
keeper, “the truth is, we did hear that, and I’m
very sorry. Will you have your rooms, anyhow?”
The indignant manager became gradually mollified.
“Very well,” he said, and (picking up the note),
“put the drinks to my account.” Then he went along
to the other pub and repeated the operation. “I
went out of that town,” says Ned, “with £lOO
clear, and if there had been a brass band in the
place it would have been called out by the humili-
ated hotelkeepers for the occasion.”
Who mentioned that melodrama had been slain by
the moving pictures? In Sydney Royal (“The Con-
fession”) has now joined the Criterion (“Within the
Law”) and the Adelphi as melotheatres.
The veteran journalist, “Dagonet” Sims, writes
the epitaph of the late chief of the London Follies
in a non-committal but suggestive sentence: “Poor
Pelissier. The tragedy of success!”
Returning to Australia shortly, under the banner
of Carroll, of Brisbane, Leroy, Talma and Bosco, the
“magicians.’’ Bosco, the corpulent gentleman who
used to produce a rabbit from nowhere, divide it into
twins, and ultimately subtract it from itself, was
recently a very sick illusionist, and never again
expected to harass a guinea pig or upset the peace
and quietude of a barnyard hen. Evidently Bosco
has got back his punch.
“8.J.H.0.”: A distressful feature of the present
Yankee invasion of Melbourne is that at several
big show-places employment is given only on condi-
tion that the Australian who acquires the job shall
simulate a Yankee drawl, adopt Amurkan methods of
walking, dressing and hair-cutting, and generally do
his darnedest to conceal the shameful fact that he
is a fellow-countryman of the unsophisticated citizens
whose gardain coin keeps the show going. Melbourne
is, for this and other reasons, full of bogus Yanks;
and in his way the fraudulent Uncle Sam is as ob-
jectionable as the youth who gets pseudo-blithered
on two shandies and the sight of the barmaid’s gold-
filled teeth.
It has come. A Sydney firm has been conducting
competitions throughout Australia to decide thr
mouth-organ championship. The contestants have
been reduced to 16, and arrangements are now being
made for the musicians to do their worst on the
stage of any Sydney theatre that will permit the
disturbance.
“Ike Pagliacci”: Louis Meyer, the London mana-
ger who invades Australia next year, didn’t casually
hit on the idea of a Commonwealth tour. He has
had Australia drilled into him almost from the
moment he began to mingle theatrical management
with his beloved job as picture editor of London
Opinion (he owns most of that paper). When Ethel
Dane began to hit ’em hard in “The Glad Eye,”
Meyer asked her where she started in the business.
“At the Semaphore,” she replied. “Semaphore?”
queried Meyer. “Near Adelaide,” explained Ethel.
“Adelaide?” gasped Meyer, and sent the office boy
for an atlas. Keightley, of Australia, won laurels
in Meyer’s production of “The Chaperone.”
Frank 'Bradley, of Adelaide, went to London,
and stood so long on the doorstep of one
manager’s office that he was ordered off.
“Sir,” he said, posing melodramatically, “you order
me out now, but, some day, sir, I will play Napoleon
in this theatre.” The declaration was a remarkable
one to make from a hostile doormat, but the prophesy
was all right. Bradley played Nap. in “Madame
Sans-Gene” in the theatre a little later. The Ade-
laide man then made some successes with Meyer’s
show on tour, and at last came the inevitable
“Where’d you learn the game?” Bradley replied:
“In Hindmarsh, Walkerville, St. Peters, Norwood
and Unley.” “Oh, !” said Meyer, “I suppose
they’re in Australia, too!” The Strand Theatre
manager didn’t look a bit surprised when Beaumont
Smith, dropping in casually, said: “I’m from Aus-
tralia,” suggested a tour of the Commonwealth, and
went away with a partnership in his pocket. Dis-
cussing the cast for “The Glad Eye,” Smith said:
“We’d want Ethel Dane, and Bradley would have to
come.” Meyer ruminated. “W T hat I can’t get at,”
he said at length, “is why you ever let them leave
Australia.”
“Arabella” : Eric Stone, the staid young gentleman
who entertains the masses at the Tivoli with very re-
spectable sketch-portraits of local and other cele-
brities, proves, like his artistic predecessor, Bert
Levy, to be a returned Australian. He was born and
educated in Melbourne; and the fifth person he met
on his recent arrival in Sydney was artist Colies,
with whom, as a kid of the same age, he attended
the big school on the Eastern Hill of the Victorian
capital. There did he oft-times wonder at his de-
praved brother’s energy in the way of decorating his
school books with pictures of Indian skirmishes, rail-
way smashes, murdered detectives and marine dis-
asters, etc., what time Latin nouns buzzed past his
ears in impotency. In later years, “Baldy” (as the
Tivoli man was called —though he had a tidy crop
of snowy hair) developed a really serious streak of
energy, which landed him in America, and then took
him to the United Kingdom and a good part of Eurone :
whilst Colies, who was badly bitten by the political
microbe, ventured no farther than the inter-State
boats would carry him.
“J.F.H.”: “Actorbat” is London stage slang for
the understudy of a leading actor in sensation scenes
involving risk to life and limb. It is not the actual
villain or hero who tumbles over the cliff or is
chucked out of the lighthouse into the seething
waves: it is a man made up to look just like him. It
is, in short, the actorbat. In Melbourne Charles
Warner had one who did the fall from the scaffold
in “Drink.” Charles paid him 2s. a night. He
demanded three. Charles refused. The actorbat said
nothing, but that night, when he was perched up on
the scaffold ready to fall, he held up three fingers.
Charles, looking up from the wings, shook his head.
The actorbat merely shrugged his shoulders and sat
tight. Charles saw what that meant, and franti-
cally held up three fingers. Then the actorbat did
the tumble in first-class style, and drew 3s. a night
for the rest of the season.
The Last Post has sounded for R. 11. Rey-
nolds, who served in British Army in the
Crimea and in Maoriland. From M.L. he
gravitated to N. S. Wales, where he got a
billet as Sergeant-Instructor of the local
forces. From soldiering he went into the
Richmond River timber trade, and with the
profits speculated wisely and well in land,
and died, at 80, well-to-do. Soldiering runs
in the family. One of his sons, a major in
the R.A.A., is learning the trade on behalf
of the Commonwealth in London; and an-
other holds a commission in the Congre-
gational unit of the army of black-coats.
PLEASURE’S PARADOXES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There was not a dry eye in the place as the
affecting story was unfolded of the beautiful but
unhappy Lady Isabel Nobody should miss seeing
this film. —Melbourne show-notice.
Roll up, ye pleasure seekers,
Here’s value for your “tin”;
The old-established story
Of Lady Bella’s sin
Is being flicked within.
The day’s harsh toil is ended,
And pleasure waits for all;
But shun the spooning benches,
The festive music hall,
Where joy hangs like a pall!
Seek ye the picture palace
Where tears lie round in pools,
And sobs are sold for 6d.,
And sorrow’s kept on spools—
There Grief triumphant rules!
Some take their pleasures sadly,
Where tragic “comics” jest;
And some their sorrows gladly,
Who like a show the best
With “human interest.”
One seeks for fun at farces,
And wilts beneath the strain;
While he who buyeth sadness
Wins pleasure from his pain!
Can anyone explain ?
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


J
mmm
mm
mm
|pt
m®
m--
mm
mm
s&ss
v:A-2
■■'r
mm
m
■Vlf'A C
m?.
Men's Ideal Hats
FOR COUNTRY WEAR.
Two of our sterling values in Felt Hats, selected
from a stock noted for excellence.
Soft Felt Lounge Hat, as illustration. Can also
be worn with Brim turned up. In Dark Grey,
Light Brown or Green. A splendid Country
Hat 10/6 and 12/6
The Settler’s Hat, of Soft, Pliable Felt, with
Brim 3J inches wide, as illustration. In Medium
Grey or Medium Brown. Lined or Unlined. . 14/6
David Jones, Ltd.
Opp. G.P.0., Sydney.
o
IBM
I JO
I ii
\rv J
I. ''V
■p*
VI/
ii./
CDtf
Gossip
The money at stake in the choice of an oil is
vastly more than the cost of any oil whatever.
Gargoyle Mobiloil is our speciality.
Gargoyle Mobiloil
and Pratt’s Spirit
The result of fifty years’ experience.
No one else has been at it so long or achieved
so good results in the petroleum business.
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty. Ltd.
Throughout the Commonwealth
tad New Ze«i*nd
Society
LOVE LAUGHS AT LOGIC.
PARENT: “What is your reason for wishing
to marry my daughter? ”
YOUNG MAN : “I have no reason, sir; I am
in love."
On Friday, October 31, the Dunedin
(M.L.) wharf lumpers dropped their cargo-
hooks. The strike was a trifle unexpected,
but mark how master minds can meet an
emergency. On Saturday, November 1, the
local Coal Dealers’ Association announced
a rise of ss. per ton in the price all round.
As 75 per cent, of the fuel consumed in
Dunedin comes by rail from mines near the
town, this statesmanlike dive at the petti-
coats of opportunity fills The Bulletin
with admiration. On second thoughts, it is
hardly admiration.
The people with the cottages to let and
the building lots to sell have had their way,
and the Sydney suburb of Rookwood gives
that name over to the city’s big graveyard.
As for itself, the municipality will hence-
forth be “Lidcombe,” a name compounded
on turf principles, Lidbury and Larcombe
being ex-Mayprs. Originally the place was
“Haslem’s Creek,” one Haslem having had
a beer shop there in the ’3o’s. The first
corpse interred in the cemetery was a Syd-
ney Hospital patient, and the first to leave
the mortuary station (Redfern) was that of
the patriot Dr. Bland.
John Norton lately bought for £20,000 a
fine block of land in Russell-street, Mel-
bourne, opposite the King’s—one of
the few available sites for a theatre, as it
has three frontages. This block is the
southern end of the half-acre purchased by
Anthony Ilordern I. at the second Melbourne
land sale in February, 1839. The price for
the lot was_£llo. When Anthony I.’s widow
died, in 1872, the property was put up for
sale in accordance with the will, and
brought £65,321. Peter Davis, an old-time
auctioneer, and a friend of the Horderns,
took out a special license in order that he
might nreside at the sale.
* * ■* *
“Lex” on a weird form of insanity :
Beiliss, the Jew who was tried in Kieff and
acquitted last week on a charge of having murdered
a boy to secure blood for Jewish ritual purposes, had
a narrow escape. And even now the local Hebrew
community labors under an infamous and grotesquely
absurd suspicion. The one defence that was most
feasible, in all the circumstances, does not appear,
from the cables of the past month, to have been
advanced at all. Far the most likely theory is that
the unlucky Yuschinsky was slain by one of those
Sadistic, maniacs who are to be found in every modern
civilisation. His 47 wounds account amply for the
fact that he had been “bled white.” But they do
more. They suggest that the essence of the crime
was a mad lust for slaughter and a desire to inflict
the utmost pain possible. If blood was taken away
from the body, it only goes to strengthen the idea
that Sadism was responsible. Krafft-Ebing, in the
latest edition of his “Psychopathia Sexualis,” quotes
a number of cases where the blood of the victim
was kept by the slayer, apparently as a sort of
memento of his hideous deed. As to the pur-
poseless killing of perfectly inoffensive strangers, in
the most brutal possible manner, the literature of
sex-perversion teems with it. Zola provides a care-
ful study of a Sadistic subject in his “La Bgte
Humaine.” The central figure of this book never
saw certain people without being obsessed by an
overwhelming desire to stab them. “Jack the Rip-
per ’ was certainly one of these unfortunates. Have-
lock Ellis cites scores of similar cases. The real
murderer of Yuschinsky will never be found, in all
likelihood. The absence of understandable motive
in such crimes is the supreme protection of the
offender. They usually, as in the case of the just-
acquitted Beiliss, cause trouble to some innocent
person—-on the principle that someone must have
been guilty, and that the merest shadow of a motive
is enough in the last resort. This was what caused
the gaoling, on a charge of cattle-maiming in England,
of Udalji, the man whose case Conan Doyle took up a
few years ago. Conan Doyle affirmed all along that
the man whom the jury had convicted was innocent,
and that the cattle-maiming was a manifestation of
Sadism. It went on, unabated, after the alleged
maimer had gone to gaol, and ultimately the man
was granted a “free pardon”-—the quaint method
by which the British law admits an error. So, in
Russia, they may arrest Jews like Beiliss by the
thousand, and there may be pogroms every other
week, and yet Christians will be mysteriously stabbed
to death.
* * * *
“Snell”: Melbourne is never without a
noteworthy street crank or two, and the
most conspicuous in the public eye now is
a short, squat, bewhiskered faddist who
looks like a German anarchist subdued by
misfortunes, and puts in his time doing the
block that takes in Collins, Elizabeth,
Bourke and Swanston streets, reading a
large Bible. His general appearance is not
encouraging, but he has one other saintly
attribute apart from his Bible-reading pro-
clivities—his whiskers are a tangle, and his
hair is confusion thrice confounded. Some-
times he leans against large edifices, tracing
his way from Genesis i. to Revelation xxii.
with a forefinger like a fried sausage ; but,
as a rule, he drifts along the pave, digging
out texts with the same preposterous digit,
butting into the young and the fair, and
getting the fripperies of the worldlings en-
tangled in his voluptuous whiskers. Now
and again he seizes his prey, and carries it
to a quiet corner in an arcade or doorway
to read to it how the Philistines and Ammo-
nites oppressed Israel (Judges x),
leading .on to the sealing of the covenant
(Nehemiah x), or, D.v. and weather per-
mitting, wandering far inland, even unto
Jehoiakim’s judgment, and the casting of
Jeremiah into the dungeon of Malchiah
(Jeremiah xxx, 7; and xxx. 8). As a rule,
the captive is an elderly lady of puritanical
aspect, who regards it as a solemn duty to
bear with the reading of the Scriptures in
any circumstances, and who would consider
it an act of sacrilege or godless dreadfulness
to break away from the exhorter and ex-
pounder, however lowly; consequently the
same fagged female may be found "being
read to remorselessly for long and dreary
periods, totally disregarded by the police
and the Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Mammals. He has been actively
operating for a good while now, and it is con-
sidered high time he was allotted a vacant
space in which he could search the Scrip-
tures without encroaching upon the liberties
of the simple peoples.
SEED TIME AND HARVEST.
BUSH BARBER : "Why, Ryan, I’ve struck a pipe in your hair!”
FARMER RYAN : “ Shure, I’ve often wondered what became av me ole clay. But now I
remimber putting it behind me ear lasht ploughin’ toime.”
“F.L.M.” : Dr. Strong’s Australian. Church
(Melbourne) has been helped out of the
financial difficulties that threatened its ex-
tinction by a legacy of £5OOO. .The donor, a
Miss Timms, who died some weeks ago, was
the last of the band of wealthy adherents
who founded the tabernacle when Dr. Strong
left Scots’ Church, in Collins-street, after
refusing to ram “hell fire” down the throats
of his congregation. The others are either
dead, or have slipped away from the church,
owing to Dr. Strong’s anti-jingo utterances
and Socialistic tendencies. Years asro Miss
Timms set aside a large sum to enable the
congregation to buy the present building, but
when she went to her cupboard it was very
nearly bare, owing to the hunger of an erring
agent. Felton, of the art bequest, was also
one of Strong’s moneyed supporters, and it is
known that an early will, in which he had
handsomely provided for the Australian
Church, was altered because the pastor or the
flock or someone wouldn’t go the way he
thought they should go.
Dear Bulletin, —I don’t know if you
heard the third act of the Indian gentleman’s
ad. for a typist with superb figure, etc., re-
printed in The Bulletin some time back.
Writer has personal knowledge of two girls
who applied—one from Wade’s side of the
harbor, the other from a Western suburb.
The latter maid got a long-winded, pathetic
reply. The advertiser was Captain ——
retired, of his Majesty’s Indian Forces, and
now owner of a prosperous business in Cal-
cutta or Burmah or somewhere. He was
young, a widower, and had a small child,
and he wanted a wife. He offered to cable
a passage, and besought applicant not to
cease corresponding. The other lass got a
note, directly accepting her services, and
cabling a passage ; and she was within two
days of sailing (without papa’s consent)
when a mutual friend blew the whole yarn
up at an afternoon tea-shop. References
were given to Mr. Fisher and Dr. Arthur.
The latter gentleman, I believe, indignantly
denies all knowledge of the writer. —Yours,
William Beetroot.
“Harborite”: The law is often an ass
when it does things, but it’s liable to be a
whole team of mules when it doesn’t do
them. As steamboats are, as a rule, strongly
built, the N. S. Wales law stipulates for
watertight compartments, life-saving appli-
ances, etc.; but as motor-boats are nearly
always lightly constructed, the owners may
please themselves regarding these matters.
They may also carry as many passengers
as they like and where they like. Occasion-
ally they drop a few where they don’t like ;
but the big disaster has not yet arrived.
The authorities did awake and ask a ques-
tion or two some years ago when the
motor-boat Agnes foundered; but as only
a few people were drowned they resumed
their slumbers after a few mutterings, and
have been asleep ever since.
The fine Unitarian Church in
Melbourne, where the Rev. Geo. Walters
once held the fort with great success, is
now in a bad way. There has been a suc-
cession of parsons and preachers—R. A
Lambley, Alex. McCully, Geo. McDowall,
A. Henderson, Catherine Helen Spence
(now dead), Mrs. Webster, Henry Gyles
Turner and F. Sinclaire. The Rev.
Charles Read is the latest to throw in his
ministerial marble. The committee is hunt-
ing in London for a successor, but the
atmosphere is cold, and somehow parsons
don t hear a call coming to them from this
way. The building, situated close to Fitz-
A TR-
LIE.
CONDUCTOR (doubtfully): "That boy looks
very old for his age.”
PASSENGER: “Yes, indeed! ’ E's ’ad a fright-
ful lot of trouble in ’is time!”
roy’s glorious gardens, is in the heart of
East Melbourne churchdom — cheek-bv-jowi
with St. Peter’s, the German Lutheran,
St. Patrick’s and the New Church, with the
R.C.’s Ladies’ College as a next-door neigh-
bor. The R.C.’s have had a wakeful eye on
the fine property—they mopped up the ad-
joining Chalmers (Presbyterian) church
and the Congregational on Victoria Parade
—and their chances look good. In years
gone it was only a question of P r j.% ft nn e
present holders of the citadel asking xIo,UW.
BACK TO THE VILLAGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Here we are again!” was the cheery aside George
Reid uttered to his wite as the belated express
crawled into the station. . . .Altogether, the return to
Sydney partook of the character of a victor’s' tri-
umphal march.— Morning paper.
“It is the same old George,” everybody said and
agreed.— Evening paper.
~Our Jarge come back last week. By gum, ’ee should
have ’eard they cheers!
I thought as they be goin’ to bust th’ drums inside
these yeers !
I tell ’ee, too, as I ’ave seen a sight of public fuss;
But it was nought to what our Jarge ’e got from all
of us.
An’ Jarge ’e smiled an’ cracked ’is jokes—’e be a
joker, sure!
I bet ’ee now our King ain’t never met a bigger cure!
They say Jarge sets ’em laughin’ so they can’t get
on nohow ;
They dukes an’ sich—all solemn folk—they look for
old Jarge now.
’E tells ’em all how fat he be—my ! don’t ’e go the
pace,
Till every jolly gentleman be moppin’ of his face.
Our Jarge ’e makes ’em laugh until they cry. Ay,
that ’e do !
’Tis good for this far village, lad, and good for me
and you!
Aye, lad, if Jarge be spared for us, our trade will
soon be large,
For there be nought in Lunnon like this jokin’ way
of Jarge.
Old Jarge ’e tells ’ow fat he be ’most twenty times
a day,
An’ all they earls an’ such they have to wipe they
tears away.
If that won’t teach they Lunnon folk trade lies
across the sea,
I ask ’ee now, in Heaven’s name, what sense in life
there be ?
And Jarge come back last week! I tell ’ee, lad, it
were a sight
To see old Jarge a-standin’ theer so happy and so
bright!
Our good old Jarge as speaks to kings an’ tells how
fat he be!
I tell ’ee now I’d give a crown to see his Majesty
"’hen old Jarge cracks that joke! Aye, lad, our
village won’t go down
While our Jarge be a-crackin’ jokes in grey old
Lunnon town!
N.S.W.
THE VILLAGER’S APPRENTICE.


Wild’s Hairdressing Rooms, 30 Upstairs,
Sydney Arcade, George and King Streets, Sydney, is
the proper place to go if you want the best of atten-
tion. Electric head and face massage done in the
latest American style. Hours of business: 8.30 to
6.30; Saturday close at 1, o’clock.*
THE LATEST in SHIRTING.
Selayne
(Regd.)
Flannel
99
AS A FLANNEL
IT STANDS ALONE
For Gentlemen of Fashion.
9
:U
Foa' a
h
•I
t
The Proved UNDERWEAR!
The summer-weight, all-wool garments described herein have been
fully proven to be unshrinkable and long-wearing.
We have featured this line for several summer seasons; and it is
selected repeatedly by men who have learned its value. This is one
of the lines which have associated the name of Peapes so closely with
articles of superfine quality.
All Blue Woollen Shirts, 4-sleeves, 34 to 40, 5/9; 42 and 44, 6/6
All Blue Woollen Underpants, 34 to 40, 5/9; 42 and 44, 6/6.
Each garment has been fashioned to correct proportions. Please
state chest and waist measurements.
New Illustrated Catalogue (just from press) on request.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 and 311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Heaven knows what he meant; but this is
what the little Observer of his native vil-
lage of Ballymena says that Sam
McG’aughey wrote to “William It. Young,
Esq., Galgorm Castle, Ballymena :
I have noted with interest in the papers Sir
Edward Carson’s stand against Home Rule. Although
it is 37 years since I left Ireland I have the same
feeling as I would have had had I remained there
during that time, that it would be an injustice to
the loyal Protestants of Ireland to hand over to the
tender mercies of the disloyal two-thirds, and I am
confident that if Ireland got Home Rule she would
not be satisfied. We see here the same thing, where
we have the freest institutions in the world —that
the Roman Catholic element is never satisfied. I
will promise you £5OO towards your fighting fund,
and will give it to you, and whatever sums you may
require, within the next few months, and herewith
enclose you an order for £250.
“I will give it to you, and whatever sums
you may require, within the next few
months,” the local villager of Galgorm
Castle says McCaughey said ; probably what
the ex-villager of Ballymena thinks he said
was that the £5OO would happen
along “in whatever sums you may re-
quire.” Anyway, only £250 was in-
closed for a start to save the country
from the “disloyal” people who want to
make it so attractive that the other
McCaugheys won’t leave it. Evidently our
McCaughey thought so little of the system
which he wants others to continue living
under, that 37 years ago he quitted it for a
country where there is Home Rule, and
where things are made so burdensome for a
Protestant like McCaughey that he hasn't
been able to become anything more than a
mere millionaire.
“Bobstay’s” puzzle :
At the present time there are two wrecked vessels
on Long Reef, near Manly (N.S.W.). One is the
steamship Euroka, the other the motor-boat Venture.
The Euroka, with seven men on board, got into diffi-
culties off Manly, and the crew decided to leave her.
They were provided with a roomy lifeboat, properly
fitted, and sailed comfortably into Sydney Harbor.
Besides this boat, required by the law 'to be on
hoard, the Euroka had a sufficient supply of lifebelts,
lifebuoys, etc. After the crew had abandoned the
steamer she drifted on to Long Reef. The Marine
Court sat, found no one to blame, and solemnly certi-
fied that the vessel was properly supplied with the
necessary life-saving gear. The' motor-boat Venture
went out to salvage the fittings of the Euroka, and
left Sydney with six men on board. As the law does
not ask motor-boats to carry life-saving appliances,
the Venture had none on board. Luckily, a dinghy
was towed astern, to assist in the salvage work.
When near the Euroka, the Venture shipped a big
sea and capsized, eventually piling up on Long Reef
alongside the steamer. The six men reached the
dinghy and pulled for the shore, but the boat, being
of the colander type, soon filled, and all hands were
left struggling in the breakers. After a severe
tussle they were washed up on the beach. The
Marine Court, however, did not take any notice of
this exciting circumstance. Officially, the law is not
aware of the existence of the Venture, and had the
whole six of her crew been drowned the Court would
have ignored the fact. Dozens of motor-boats go
outside the Heads every day without a boat of the
colander or any other variety behind or aboard of
them, and although the Navigation Act sets out the
appliances such craft must carry under risk of a
r’lOO fine, the risk is taken with great unanimity.
Maybe the law reckons the people who take these
risks are wooden-heads who will thereby float ashore
without artificial aid in case of accident. And,
maybe, the law’s right.
NO WASTE.
“ That girl's a real artist. She gets more
effect out of less material than anyone else I
know."
"Then I see you don’t know the artist who
makes my wife's evening dresses."
“Gordon G.” : A gentleman from the coun-
try was besotted enough to engage me the
other day to defend him on a charge of
embezzlement. The prosecution alleged and
proved everything against him conclusively,
and I found myself right “up against it.”
During the case a table was incidentally
mentioned, and witnesses were called to
prove that its innards had been used by my
client for the base purpose of secreting the
stolen property. Having appealed to the
jurors’ uncommon intelligence and so forth,
WASTEFUL AND
RIDICULOUS
EXCESS.
LILY : "My dear Vi, why will you drench yourself with
scent? You know what Shakspeare says about adding perfume to the violet. "
VIOLET: “ Doesn't he say something, too, about painting the t[?]?"
I glanced at his Honor and plunged in.
To such straits was I driven that I set out
on a line of argument in which I endeavored
to show that the table was of such a dilapi-
dated and degraded nature as to be the last
place in which anyone would seek to conceal
anything, and that my client therefore
placed the property in it without any feloni-
ous intent whatever. With this end in view
I enlarged on the shape, general structure,
size, and present state of decay of the table,
and incidentally harangued the 12 sages on
the utterly impossible and ludicrous condi-
tion of the legs thereof. It was at this
stage that the bolt came from the ermine.
Just as I was flattering myself that I was
making something of an impression, his
Honor suddenly and gravely remarked,
“Yes, yes, Mr. G., all this talk about the
legs is very well, but don’t you think we
might now get on to the drawers?” Wild
mustangs won’t drag from me that Judge’s
name. The table turned scarlet.
* * * *
“Bloore” : It is time to give the system of
appointing area-officers from the ranks of
those who hold day-jobs in the civil service
a kick in the neck. The
overworked sergeants-major
do most of the graft, I know ;
still the area-officer has some
duties, and he neglects his
own departmental work to
do them, and incidentally
draws two salaries. I know
of one khaki-breeched gentle-
man, on the £250 mark in
the State’s service, who, half
his time, is using the
Department’s ’phone lines
and hanging up business
generally to further his
own business as O.C. of the,
say, 8.876 Area. Neither
the Area nor the Department
for Blast Furnaces gets a
fair deal. Others attend to
their regular jobs diligently,
and it is sheer waste for the
Defence people to pay them
£156 a year for the indiffer-
ent and slap-dash work they
do in their spare time. Why
not insist upon area-officers
being detached instead of
semi-detached persons, and
give them, sav. £250 to start
on? There are plenty of fel-
lows —fellows who have seen
the real thing—available and
willing to take it on at this
figure; but they all seem to
get passed over in favor of
Algernon, whose military
training is mostly of the Boy
Scout and malacca-cane
order.
The old-established convention which im-
pelled judges to assume ignorance of every-
day matters appears to be expiring. Any-
how, on the morning of Oaks Day, when
counsel, on both sides, applied for a post-
ponement till the morrow, on the alleged
grounds that it would “be a great conveni-
ence to their clients,” Justice Hood merely
looked over his glasses and remarked: “Yes,
gentlemen ; and which train do you catch ?”
Up at Kempsey (N.S.W.) the other
day, Judge Hamilton had just con-
cluded the swearing-in of the usual drove of
J’s.P., when the astounding discovery was
made that, by error, allegiance had been
sworn to the departed Edward. There were
whisperings and shudderings and visions of
burst marriage-ties and civil war, till the
Judge saved the country by ordering another
round-up. Then the performance was re-
peated, with the name of George substituted
for that of the Good Sport.
“Deeby”: Some of the methods of the
Defence Department seem designed to make
military training as unpopular as possible.
In this area it was intimated on two differ-
ent occasions that pay would be dispersed
on a certain date. The intimations proved
to be false rumors. When the long-due pay
did at last arrive, it transpired that the
local pay-officer had placed it to his credit
at the local bank, probably with a view to
giving a healthy appearance to his account
for business purposes. Anyhow, the lads
were told they must again wait till next
parade. It recalls the time when I lived
in a South American republic, where the
monthly pay of the local troops was dis-
pensed with the utmost irregularity once a
year or so.
There are snobs on the Blue Mountains,
and some of them propose to change the
name of the Berghofer Pass to Victoria, the
old Victoria Pass having been done away
with by a deviation. The feverish loyalists
give as their reason that they “want to
perpetuate the name of the late queen.”
The bathos of it, when you remember that,
in nine cases out of 10, the people who want
to do such things are also the people who
talk loudest about the sturdy pioneer and
the honor that is due to him! When did
Victoria do any pioneering on the Blue
Mountains? And, in any case, there’s a
summit and a fall and a few other things
brandea with her name. Isn’t that enough,
without robbing poor old Berghofer (who-
ever he was) of his little bit of monument?
Archdeacon Boyce .(N.S.W.) recently
issued a diagram depicting the relative ex-
penditures on drink in the Dry and Wet
portions of Maoriland. It showed a very
short column, marked 18s. 6d. per head, for
the Dry, and a very long column, marked
£4 55., for the Wet. No one doubts that
the well-meaning Archdeacon has used any
but official figures; and that is just how
the Archdeacon is dragged in. For, while
the official figures show only the legitimate
consumption of drink inside the Prohibition
districts, the illegitimate drinking is in-
cluded in the £4 ss. of the Wet places ; the
illegitimate drink being smuggled into the
Dry area to be dispensed secretly at
increased price. And not always very
secretly. For instance, a man goes to
Invercargill, and wants to offer refreshment.
So at the pub he yells for Bill, the man.
Bill appears. Then it’s —“Bill, go up to
my room, and in the trunk you’ll find two
bottles of lager, and a bottle of whisky. Fix
us up with sodawater, Bill.” Bill finds
all that is required in that trunk. He
would find brandy, benedictine or port wine
if he were asked. The Archdeacon’s dia-
gram is quite worthless, because it doesn’t
show that mvsterious “trunk,” which is re-
plenished from the nearest Wet district.
“A III.” : The news that the recent Brit-
ish naval manoeuvres have proved the
superiority of the cheap and handy sub-
marine over the big battleship is good hear-
ing for Britons in general and Australians
in particular. The cable goes so far as to
say that the “subs” were so destructive
(theoretically, of course) that they were
called out of action before the end of the
manoeuvres. A couple of dozen submarines
could be built for the price of the Aus-
tralia, and as they can lie, safe and in-
visible, in almost any creek, the “suitable
harbor” trouble is almost eliminated. From
what can be gathered from this latest trial,
the fear of the effective invasion of Britain
has been lifted, in a large measure, from
John Bull’s chest. J. 8., though late to
start, owns by far the biggest fleet of sub-
marines, and the latest designs are admit-
tedly the best going. Since the new sea-
going submarines have a steaming capacity
of 1000 miles, the mosquitoes will not in
future be content with mere coastwise
works; wherefore from this onwards life on
board a big battleship promises to be a jumpy
affair. Men can face a visible danger, but
the dart that may drop in without warning
is calculated to unnerve even a politician.
A DIFFICULTY SOLVED.
CHAWIKY : “Ak, Miss Oldham , in the old
romantic days a man had only to ask his
beloved to fly with him ”-
MISS OLDHAM : “ It is still possible—I can bor-
row pa's aeroplone."
“Gunnah” among the tombstones: —
“N. or M.,” in his account of old St. David's
cemetery, Hobart, omitted one of the most curious: —
Sacred to the Memory of
GEORGE GWATKIN,
who died Oct. 22nd, 1830,
Aged 32 years.
Beneath this friendly stone is laid
A spirit none could ere subdue,
To spirits ever was inclined,
And spirits ’tis has brought him low.
All you that spirits drink in waste
Consider his untimely end.
They ardently believed in “sermons in stones” in
those days. The authorities usually prefaced their
numerous hangings with remarks anent “the awful
warning” ; and when Nature took matters into her
own hands, the last word was generally spoken in
bad print in the graveyard.
DEAD, BUT NOT GONE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I saw children pelting stones into an open vault.
They were trying to sink a coffin floating in water.
I also saw human bones protruding from the smashed
wood of a coffin amongst bricks and water in a ruined
vault. Some time ago one of the vaults was entered
and a coffin stripped of its lead sheafing. —From the
story of a neglected Sydney cemetery.
When I at last am dead,
Don’t put me in the ground.
Why should bones lie around
When the poor soul has fled ? •
When I am safely dead,
’Twould make my thin soul howl,
If some unfeeling ghoul
Should loot my coffin-lead.
Don’t box and bury me
With very great respect,
For Time will bring neglect—
Cold, cold as charity.
Burn me to ashes grey,
And let the first wind take
Me hence, for pity’s sake.
That is the quickest way.
Above the dusty earth
On fresh, brave winds I’ll trail;
The hollow of the sail
Shall be my white sea-berth.
Place not a stone upon
My thoughtless, buried head ;
When I, good friend, am dead,
Let me be also gone!
N.S.W.
THE SEXTON.


"Premier Holman," according to the "Daily
Telegraph,” "has issued instructions to returning-
officers regarding the appointment of their subor-
dinates. Each officer is recommended to select one
Labor partisan and one Liberal partisan, so that
one may keep a watch on the other." It seems to
“The Bulletin” tliat this fine (tarty practice is
capable of extension
Here, for instance, vou nave a striker being run
fiS by a Liberal John Hop while the Labor ditto
upholds his rights.
hi 6era j Spapers
a, t SO c '»Ploy ,
Jeal - T ' u,s uou/;*•«* Z °
I //l bo ">
**«3ss
s uouu"'' jt v';;;
' . , '' 'J? e c ase {">} "
*•**%*» *** ot
V“ T,s r VartV’
\Vo" se
- —^
M reV " ftl “O eftt , tie d
I %A*« st
I sV a ' n '
4
1 i %
V
s ( hools d wh, U rV e "l" b<s Kained by either si ''£jn ‘he
jouS idea Sa “ SCh ° olmarr ” s ""I the
thlnßb soo, ‘ ou ' habies
r*r., r° ra wi * l, part y v feeling. Here are tw.
fighting for a principle. Observe the H,denen,len,
This Is put in just to fill up. Under a micro l
scope you will observe that it is a Liberal flea
arguing with a Labor flea
THE PARTY MADNESS.


STATE 3<SKS©@fL|
5o "Hre
V« -ftf-
r should
be €»S«_2na^_
Some phases of life in the South Sea
Islands were described by Dr. Wood.
Bishop of Melanesia. The Bishop’s Ex-
periences show that the natives in
certain of the missions* having lost the
enthusiasm of the early days of their
conversion to Christianity, are much
inclined to fall into a state of indolence.
To rouse the islanders from this condi-
tion of somnolence to something like
their former alertness, is the great task
of the missionary.—Newt Item. •
» n Static, S^bool^
' SWutoui^X^ml
whatever i!
C2k*> l do now "to KceJ? yot* ajive ?
There is never exhibited any
serfons intention of pushing through
anfy measure to a conclusion. Bills
are taken up and debated for a few
hours, and then dropped, in. order to
take up some other for a little toy
debate.
The Premier, when he spoke last
year, gave utterance to the colossal
inanity that “there would be no use in
Victoria going on its own, and some
disadvantage, inasmuch as this State at
present stands high in the regard of
Imperial authorities."
/v\u*T2W>- let*, o 'fir
“Vilmore Willie,
or we'll rievier r«* f>mn&cle
of* our **
* iii i.
/Aoe on Waft
W./Ne WkT- >5, ("The "Age on
liSjC SfUtf l-fy-s-.
W-for (Jitfs s*Ke S , ' ,er>,or^^
do^flal-Jolir. Bull see it"/ would die of sb^ne
I* to the rarest thing to see a woman
In a bathing-dress which really looks
well
v !he. Re.lt
V*q©
Veen
. ,£a.w on se.
\ ASfendaJe ta^«V,
cav>
See. nomine "to
<3pw)|>l&in 2^oul^
Ta/ASuspemded !j
y/fr*!*
\vriftr
' n Are«s)
100 itis,».dc. -fetoe^y
m©. »
THE WORLD, THE FLESH AND THE RELIGIOUS EDITOR.


Mr. Storekeeper, Mr. Miller, Mr. Seedsman, are
you aware that Smith’s Ltd. are making calico and
hessian bags suitable for your requirements? Smiths
print these bags in any number of colors; they are
anxious to obtain your business; they can save you
money on your bag account; and are anxious to get
in touch with you. They will send you a sample
bag for purposes of comparison, duly printed if
you so desire. If courteous service and utmost value
at bedrock prices appeal to you, then write to the
Bag specialists,” T. Smith Ltd., Sussex Street
Sydney.*
GAELI C
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
F or
QUALITY.
HATS.
For
DURABILITY
NABOB BOOT PASTE,
the Waterproof
Boot Polish.
ONE APPLICATION WILL LAST A WEEK. A BRUSH UP
BEING ALL THAT IS NECESSARY IN BETWEEN WHILES.
LEWIS & WHITTY,:Makers, IV?clbourne and Sydney.
EVERY DAY
more people are proving that
IDI
is the best washing preparation for
blankets, flannels, woollens and dainty
fabrics. Lux is scientific in its methods.
Lux coaxes rather than forces the dirt
from the clothes. Lux shortens the
work at the washtub —lengthens the
life of the clothes.
WON’T
SHRINK
WOOLLENS.
I —
r
\ i
/»
y
lever brothers
LIMITED. SYDNEY.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
C. H. Bertie, the Sydney municipal
librarian, while holidaying in the country of
the Macquaries—the Isle of Mull, in Scot-
land —became possessed of a portrait of
Imchlan Macquarie, the early Governor of
N. S. Wales. Isle of Mull people recognise
it as the correct picture of the old-time Gov-
ernor ; but it differs so much from the
hideous oil painting in Windsor (N.S.W.)
Courthouse that one or the other should be
set on fu*e.
IF HE WANTED TO!
In opening his address Mr. Henley said that the
ship of State was on the rocks, with “Socialistic poli-
tical pirates on board. —Electioneering item.
The Great One (watching the distress
signal): “If it wasn't for that scoundrelly
crew I'd chuck her a line and pull her off
meself! ”
That ferocious warrior, Colonel Ryrie,
M.H.R., recently offered to take on any six
Labor members with the gloves. His chal-
lenge was promptly accepted ; but, lest Ryrie
should still be unsatisfied, the Randwick
Political Labor people have issued a definite
challenge that their candidate, W. Id.
Brown, an old sparring partner of Bob
h itzsimmons, Peter Jackson and others will
box both him and the bellicose Herbert Wood.
More than that, they undertake, if Brown
is defeated, to hand over £lOO to the chari-
ties in the victor s electorate. Of course
nobody expects that there will be any bruis-
ing; still, it is good to see bluff ealied.
Matthew Henry Stephen, ex-Justice and
Acting Chief_Justi.ce of N. S. Wales, hopes
to have an 85th birthday party on December
'? < and among others who expect to be there
is Mrs. \ illeneuve Smith, a daughter, who is
on the way from England with her hus-
Matthew Henry’s father was Alfred,
Chief Justice ; and Mrs. Smith’s other grand-
father was Colonel- Shadforth, one time
Usher of the Black Rod. The lady’s hus-
band, Francis George Villeneuve Smith, is
the only surviving son of Francis Smith,
who, in 1844, was admitted to the Bar at
Hobart Town; was, in 1848, Solicitor-
General, and in 1854 Attorney-General in
Tasmania. He took the latter office condi-
tionally on. being at liberty to oppose the
continued introduction of convicts. Deni-
son, the Governor, was in favor of convict
settlement, and had sacked Chapman, the
Colonial Secretary, because of his opposition.
Later on Francis Smith held many high
offices in the island-State—was member of
the first responsible Ministry, Attorney-
General, Premier, and. subsequently. Puisne
Judge and Chief Justice.
Pen fold’s purchase of Angus’s Minchin-
bury Vineyard was announced last week.
This fine estate, near Rooty Hill, almost a
suburb of Sydney, was a grant of 1000 acres
to Lieutenant William Minchin, the Ad-
jutant of the smellful rum-selling N.S.W.
Corps. This Minchin was a man with a
history. As ensign, he started first for Aus-
tralia in May, 1797, on board the ill-fated
ship Lady Shore, in command of a detach-
ment of recruits who acted as guard of the
convicts on board. On August 1 the sol-
diers seized the ship, and murdered the cap-
tain and first mate. They put Minchin, his
wife, the remaining officers and the famous
Major Semple in a boat, which reached Rio
Janiero, whence they got to England.
Minchin again sailed for Sydney, and, reach-
ing there safely this time, was made adju-
tant of the corps, and remained such till he
left the colony. He was the lieutenant of
the guard sent into Government House on
January 26. 1808, by Major Johnston, to
arrest Governor Bligh, and it was to him
Corporal Michael Marlborough handed over
the Governor, whom he found in an upstairs
room. Major Johnston selected Minchin to
take his despatches to England, informing
the British Government of Bligh’s arrest; he
sailed in Blaxland’s vessel, The Brothers, in
May, 1808, and returned in August, 1809,
only to be sent back again by Lieutenant-
Governor Paterson to give evidence against
Bligh in the Johnston trial. Soon after-
wards he retired from the corps and settled
on the land at Minchinbury. lie died on
March 25, 1821, aged 45 years, and was
buried in the old Devonshire-street cemetery.
From London: Among the undefended
suits set down for hearing in Divorce is
that of the Countess De La Warr, who is
asking for a restitution of rights. The Earl
has a certain Australian interest, inasmuch
as (1) his first wife was a daughter of that
Brassey who, while Governor of Victoria,
fell off so many things, and (2) he is a
brother of Lady Edeline Strickland. He
is one of London’s most festive characters.
The Brassey lady divorced him 10 years
ago amid a social uproar, suggestive of the
Zoo at feeding time. His present wife is
advancing on him from
a new legal angle—
and one, by the way,
that promises to be-
come exceedingly fash-
ionable during the
coming divorce season.
Lady Randolph Chur-
chill set the vogue.
The lady who doesn’t
want her erring spouse
back at any price asks
the Court to order him
to return to her arms.
The Court does so.
The husband sneers at
the Court. The peti-
tioner then gets her
order. There is no
scandal, no trying ex-
posures in court, and
very, little expense;
and all parties are satisfied, barring the
lawyers. ,\\
“T. 0.1.”: A propos the suggestion that
John Madden should be the next Governor of
Victoria, and the old-time appointment of
Fred Weld as Governor of Westralia and
Tasmania (B. 13/13/’l3). There is another
instance in John Bates Thurston, Governor
of Fiji. Weld was a politician in Maori-
land when he got his promotion, and had
strong, powerful backing in England. Thurs-
ton, on the other hand, landed in Fiji an ob-
scure and (possibly) runaway sailor. lie
got employment in the Consulate in 1866,
being then 30 years of age ; became secretary
to Cakobau, and was special representative
of the dusky king at a conference with Her-
cules Robinson re annexation. When an-
nexation had been accomplished, he was suc-
cessively Acting-Governor, Deputy-Governor,
Assistant High Commissioner, Lieutenant-
Governor (1886) and Governor of Fiji; and
High Commissioner and Consul-General for
the Western Pacific (1887). This last post
he held until his death in 1897. Thus he
never had any official job outside the Fiji
whose service he joined on the bottom.rung.
The very serious-minded Judge Murray,
of S. Aus., has made a joke. Inadvertently
Piper, K.C., stood on the tail of Symon’s
gown, and, when objection was raised, his
Honor described it as undoubtedly a
"riparian” trespass.
THE DEAN
OF
SYDNEY.
W. G. Meudell, one of Melbourne’s best-
known and best-liked mining secretaries,
died the other day, before his time —mostly
of too steadfast a devotion to work. He
was a thin man, who felt his responsibilities
keenly, and hastened death by taking his
office home with him. It was all work and
no play, and, though it never succeeded in
making W. G. a dull boy, it helped to make
him a dead man.
The yarn is told of a very important
person whose appointment in connection
with the transcontinental railways was be-
ing considered. Said a Minister of the day
to a man who had worked with this Im-
portant Person: “You know (say) Jones?”
“Yes,” said the other, “I know" him. A
fine fellow, and just about the slowest in
the world.” “Ah,” said the Minister,
/“that's the one we’re looking for.” And
evidently it was, for he got the big job.
Dead in Melbourne Hospital, Geo. Vesey
Allen, journalist, etc. —of late years mostly
etc. Allen was the breeziest, most irre-
snonsible and best-liked person you could
come across; also lie had the bluest eyes
ever seen in a man. After serving on the
Age, he was for some time in one of the
N.S.W. Government offices under the Chief
secretary’s Department. An eruption like
unto Mount Etna at its worst occurred
therein, and in the smoke Allen disappeared.
A couple of years later the then Principal
Under-Secretary was blinded by the appari-
tion of George Yesey on the official mat, top-
hatted and frock-coated. Allen had become
Ambassador-in-ordinary of the Bendigo
CVic.) Exhibition, and he was entrusted
with the job of booming the show in Sydney.
Some people would have been diffident about
bailing up his old official boss, but Allen
was one of the cheerful souls who are not
diffident about anything.
When Benjamin Lee, the old Sydney
S.M., had his 88th birthday lately, the
papers mentioned a stirring Parliamentary
“scene” in which he had participated. This
is the gist of it. Ben was member for West
Maitland at the time, and the row he raised
involved Jack Robertson, Parkes, Dr. Lang,
William Forster, Speaker Arnold, John
Lucas and many others. Parkes was chiefly
to blame, as he insisted on making a speech
on a letter of Archbishop Polding’s without
laying the paper on the table of the House.
McPherson, member for Central Cumber-
land, was supposed to have used the word
“blackguard.” and Lee, taking it to him-
self, walked across the floor. McPherson
was so little conscious of offence that he
stood up to salute Lee in a friendly way •
but the latter shot his right fist into McPher-
son’s face, and down went McPherson.
Motions for suspension and expulsion fol-
lowed. Meantime McPherson left the
Chamber, and returning with a horsewhip,
struck Lee across .the face as *' the latter
entered the library. The men clinched, and
the police were sent for, as the area of
fight had now extended to the “outside.”
Martin, Attorney-General, raised an inter-
esting point at this juncture. Saul Samuel
demanded that the Attorney-General should
give the combatants into the custody of the
police, but Martin refused, holding that the
magisterial powers of members are sus-
pended while they are in the Legislative
Chamber.
“Geebung” on his travels:—
I called at the N.S.W. Agency, intending- to
my respects to the able gentleman who keeps that
end up for us in London. I knew him as Tim Gogh
lan in the old days, one of the smartest and most
unassuming of the natives we have reared. A bright
young English damsel approached me in the down
stairs office. Her nnen was official, yet affable Save
for my venerable appearance, 1 had none of those
things which impress young English damsels— neither
frock coat nor shiny silk hat. I said, “Is Mr (Ch
lan in?” Changing her manner, she said, with gentle
asperity: “You mean Mr. Coal-un.” I said “Who?”
“Mr. Coal-un!” I said I was after my old friend
the Agent-General, Mr. Timothy Coghlan With
expression in which pity and resignation were beau"
fully blended, she said, “You mean Mr. Coal -nr, ”
“Ah, well,” I said, “I expect he still spells it
C-o-g-h-l-a-n.” “Oh yes,” said she; “but you know
the proper pronunciation is C-o-a-l-u-n ” What
man does have to put up with in London, to be sure?
George Davies, who fox' a decade past was
Speaker of the Tasmanian Assembly anil
for more years still had been Chairman of
Committees when “Nick” Browne was
Speaker, died at Hobart last week. The
late Speaker and his brother, Charlie have
been proprietors of the Hobart Mercury
for a generation—since the death of their
father, “Old Jack” Davies, who founded the
journal. The Davieses also own the weekly
Tasmanian Mail. A third brother has
been for long connected with the newspaper-
agency business of Gordon and Gotch
George Davies was not a brilliant man, but
he was a careful one, and that and his good
sense carried him through any office he held
He was in the Tasmanian Parliament for 3U
years. Brother Charlie has usually man-
aged the Mercury, but whenever George
was in charge, everybody concerned was
glad. He didn’t worry the sub-editor. He
saw that potentate just once —before he
caught the last tram for his home in New-
town —and in a confidential whisper asked
“Is everything right?” Bluff old Ted'
Ings, when he had the job. would blurt out:
“Yes, yes, all light. Good night!” and
George’s supervision was over. George was
Mayor of Hobart when the Yorklets visited
Tasmania, and, when they had gone, it was
thought a sure thing that he would be
knighted ; bvit he wasn’t —he had to wait for
the bauble till he became Speaker.
“Oimai” from the North :
The news that Governor Murray, of Papua, was
recently deserted by his native carriers and left, a
long, lean and perturbed Personality, in the dripping
recesses of some of the worst jungle country in the
world, seems to be causing extreme distress to a sec-
tion of the Australian press. The Brisbane Courier
regards the happening as the outward and visible
sign of the passing of the white man’s authority, and
P. McMAHON
GLYNN, Minister for
Foreign Affairs.
forecasts a sort of Got-
terdammerung for Pap-
uan officialdom. This is
all hot air. Government
officials have been left in
the lurch by their car-
riers before to-day, anti
though the crime of
leaving a semi-sacrosanct
Lieutenant-Governor to
the company of the
jungle leeches may be
unspeakable to all up-
holders of law and order,
Papua can supply prece-
dents. No less a “Gov-
ernment” than the
mighty William Macgre-
gor, who nowadays oc-
cupies a sort of demi-
god’s position in Papuan
legend, was left, at least
once, in the same pre-
dicament This was in
the early days of his
reign, when “the Doc-
tor” —now his Ex. of
Queensland —used to in-
sist on humping his own
swag. His carriers, after
consultation, decided that
this action was highly
unbecoming, unprece-
dented and calculated to
disturb industrial circles.
Moreover, it was doubt-
ful if his Ex. was a duly-
qualified member of the
Carriers’ Union. A sub-
committee having re-
ported that the Gover-
nor’s swag was much
heavier than any regular
carrier would carry, all
doubt on this head was
set at rest. A resolution
was passed that the time
was not yet ripe for the
admission of outlanders
on equal terms to the
local labor market, and
the meeting adjourned
sine die, to its respec-
tive homes. It may be
added that, in Murray's
case, his carriers seem
to have been recruited
from the southern litto-
rals. The best and most
trustworthy carriers in
Papua are those from
the north-east and nor-
thern divisions. Occa-
sionally they may have
eaten their boss, as the
Mamba natives did in
Green's case; blit', gencrallv speaking-, on the ques-
tion of desertion, Mrs. Micawber has nothing on
thprn.
I DON’T THINK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Are there ever times, Mr. Keid, when you feel
that you would like to be back here in the fighting
line, as of old?”
He smiled, and said : “That is one of the things 1
do not want to talk about.”
—lnterview in the S. M. Hkrald.
Young Spoopendyke was sent to see
Our George, and ask him questions plain ;
He wonders if he’d choose to be
At Joe Cook’s elbow once again :
“Now would you like,” says Spoopendyke
“To serve the party, and all that ?”
“Ha-ha!” says George;
“Oho!” says George;
“Young man, what are you getting at?”
For Georgie, with his inward eye,
Sees Deakin fail in ruin sad ;
Sees Joseph Cook go blowing by
In “triumph” that is just as bad:
For Joe is made Prime Minister —-
Who would have dreamt it in the past ?
“Aha!” says George;
“Oho!” says George;
“How long will poor old Joseph last?”
“There’s Joseph scrambling in the mud,”
Says with one eyelid down,
“And Deakin tumbled with a thud,
But I am safe in London town!
I’m ft-ted, banqueted, and wined,
And feel contented —wouldn’t you?
Except” (says George)
“Just this” (says George)—
“I’d like a little extra screw.”
When all the Fusion went to smash
Upon an unforgotten day,
George sat serene above the crash
And drew five thousand far away.
Come back to it? Not on your oath!
That needs no X-ray sense to tell!
“Trust me!” says George,
The same old George:
“I left before the rainstorms fell.”
N.S.W.
M.


CHAMPION
TOBACCO
c **M p / 0 ,
’■"ft
wm
TOBACCO
t P LAKE CUT fife
, :-S*Js
IMIS:
tv
\\ * L-*-**Ol
<1
✓
««■
% .
T^ ;
1
m
.
It
, s
••
<*#=»!
THE KING’S CHOICE.
AN END TO MOULDY OR DRY TOBACCO!!
“ CHAMPION ” is not only guaranteed to open up as sound as when packed,
but IMPROVES BY KEEPING.
SEALED OR UNSEALED TINS.
THE
PIPE OF QUALITY—
LMN
400
Ws
t „eiy p 'P e Guar *nt,
e ed
sift*
V.-.* jpf


TO STOREKEEPERS
Why Carry Large Stocks of Single Cylinder Double Acting Power Pumps, when we can deliver
one or one dozen as you order from our stock? „
Write to use for prices on the DEANE Model A., Single Cylinder Double Acting Power Pumps,
with Brass-lined Cylinders.
AGENTS in every State. If not in stock in your State, apply to—
SIMPSON BROTHERS, 32-34 Clarence Street, Sydney.
COUNTRY AGENTS REQUIRED.
Steam Turbines coupled to Dynamos, Alternators, Pumps, Blowers, Fans, etc.
The Original Inventors of Parsons' Type.
C. A. PARSONS 8 CO.. Newcastle-on-TyMi
. . .111 AT AMC
HAVE SUPPLIED OVER 60,000 B.H.P. OF TURBINES IN AUSTRALIA
Sole Australasian WILLIAM ADAMS (Eh COMPANY LIMITLU,
Agents— Sydney, Melbourne,
Y LIMIIJCU,
Brisbane, Pert»:
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Tooth and Co., Ltd., brewers, etc., Syd-
ney:—
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Mar., 1906.. 46,532 8 p.c.= 36,000 10,532 180,402
Sept., 1906.. 38,280 8 ~ „ 36,000 2,286 182,688
Mar, 1907.. 45,156 8 „ ~ 36,000 9,156 191,844
Sept., 1907.. 53,889 10 ~ ~ 45,000 8,889 200,733
Mar., 1908.. 75,071 10 „ ~ 45,000 30,071 230,804
Sept., 1908.. 62,904 10 ~ „ 45,000 17,904 248,708
Mar., 1909.. 75,372 10 „ „ 45,000 30,372 279,080
Sept., 1909.. 64,123 10 „ „ 45,000 19,123 298,203
Mar., 1910.. 78,382 10 „ „ 45,000 33,382 331,585
Sept., 1910.. 71,330 10 ~ ~ 45,000 26,330 357,915
Transferred to Capital, £lOO,OOO •• 257,915
Mar., 1911.-107,833 10 p.c.= 50 000 57,833 315,748
Sept., 1911.. 99,732 10 ~ „ 50,000 49,732 365,480
Mar., 1912..124.403 10 ~ ~ 50 000 74,403 439,883
Transferred to Capital, £lOO,OOO . . 339,883
Sept., 1912.. 95,303 10 p.c.= 55,000 40,303 380,186
Assets written up, £350,000 .. .. 730,186
Transferred to Capital, £ 550,000 .. 180,186
Ord. Pref.
(10p.c.) (6p.c.)
Mar., 1913.. 86,126 55,000 16,500 14,626 194,812
(8 p.c.)
Sept., 1913.. 80,613 55,000 22,000 3,613 198,425
The unexpected thing there was the 8 p.c. paid on
the pref. shares. Six months ago, in reporting the
accidents and disasters of the half-year, the Board
said: “The assets have been revalued and sundry
reserves absorbed, which enabled the directors to
issue 550,000 £1 cumulative 6 p.c. pref. shares fully
paid.” At the meeting at which the issue was fore-
shadowed a resolution was passed authorising the
directors to issue shares “with a preferential or quali-
fied right to dividends.” When the new lot were
issued as “cumulative 6 p.c. pref. shares” it was
assumed that they would not be entitled to more
than 6 p.c., and they were trafficked in on that
assumption at about 265. Then came the 8 p.c.
announcement, and they leaped nimbly to about
31s. Possibly the argument is that people who get
bonus shares and promptly run them on to the
market don’t deserve any consideration ; still, as the
shareholder may have wanted the money to buy
beer or do some other virtuous act of which this co.
would approve, it was a pity the rights of these new
shares were not made quite clear when they were
issued. It seems an extraordinary thing, anyhow,
that bonus shares, besides carrying a cumulative prefer-
ence, should be entitled to soar up to any heights in
the matter of dividends. It isn’t usual to single out
bonus shares for any such special favors as that.
As usual, the co.’s figures have a fine lot of
sparkle in them. Profits, it is true, were better in
the March-September half of the previous year ; but
£lO,OOO of the shortage in the past term is accounted
for by a gift of that amount made to a fund estab-
lished “for the benefit of all the employees, in the
event of death or disablement while in the co.’s ser-
vice.” Still, even after excluding this £lO,OOO, the
half-year’s profits are better than the average of the
wintry periods. The financial position of the co. is,
of course, very fine: —
Sept., ’O3. Sept., ’l3.
Liabilities . . . . . . £30,687 £43,589
Assets.
Breweries and properties, etc. .. 644,913 1,229,444
Book debts 242,375 213,358
Stock 88 959 171,428
Liquid assets . . . . . . 143,969 369,784
A small part of the very big jump in the “breweries
and properties” item may be due to the re-valuation
made last year. Still, here are the facts. Without,
getting in one penny of capital from the sharehold-
ers, and after paying a dividend of from 8 to 10
p.c., the co.’s net assets increased from £1,089,529
in 1903 to £1,940,425 in 1913 —which means an
average of £85,089 per annum for the whole period.
Possibly, as remarked just now, some of it was due
to the increment in values, ascertained by re-valua-
tion ; but the bulk of it —say two-thirds of it, at
least —consisted of undivided profits Trom trading.
In fact, the position may be better even than that,
because in 1903 “breweries and properties, etc.,”
included goodwill, whereas goodwill has now been
cut out of the assets altogether. It is true that very
little visible profit is left after the past half-year’s
dividends have been paid ; but (1) the March-Sep-
tember half-vear invariably gives poorer results than
the other, and (2) various internal reserves were
disclosed a while ago, and there is no reason to sup-
pose that the practice of stuffing undisclosed profits
into inner contingency reserves has been dropped.
What effect legislation may have on this co. and
its profits The Bulletin doesn’t know. The legis-
lator is always liable to break out in quite unex-
pected places ; who, for instance, would have believed
that the N.S.W. Labor party, which stood for sane
finance, would have dropped into the wildest borrow-
ing orgy and the maddest finance ever known in the
State ? “ That orgy has, incidentally, played into the
hands of this and everv other landlord. And, curiously
enough, the anti-liquor party is also playing
into the hands of this and the other big brewers, in-
asmuch as, besides choking off all competition, it is
driving the more timorous and weaker ones into the
arms of the big fellows. Thus during the last month
or two Tooth’s have purchased the Maitland brewery.
The anti-liquor people curse “the brewery mononoly.”
and all the time are helping to make a monopoly
of what certainly wasn’t a monopoly when the pre-
sent crusade began.
* * * *
Marcus Clark and Co., Ltd., who carry
on a furnishing and drapery business in Sydney and
elsewhere, and do much of it on a time-payment
basis: —
Deficit
(Goodwill
Dividends. not
f , reckoned
Pref. Written as an
Profits. (6p.c.) Ordinary. Off. Asset).
Aug., £ £ £ £ £
1905.. 49,039
1906.-30,656 4954 74 p.c. = 11,250 1694 36,281
1907.. 33,279 6000 74 „ „ 11,250 2538 22,790
1908.. 33,603 6000 8 „ „ 12,000 2971 10,158
Reserves.
1909.. 35,473 6542 8 „ „ 12,712 2660 3,401
1910.. 39.640 7500 8 „ „ 14,000 3167 18,374
Insurance Fund dropped in, £1920. . 20,294
1911.. 43,482 8250 8 „ „ 15,000 2788 37,738
1912.. 51,430 9000 8 „ „ 16,000 2946 61,222
1913.. 36,121 9000 8 „ „ 16,000 3379 68,964
The public came into this co. in 1905-6, three or
four years after registration ; before that the business
had been carried on by partners who retained the
bulk of the control. There were three Clarks then
in it, two of them being on the Board. Both those
two, though comparatively young, have died in the
brief seven years that have since passed. These good
men left, of course, the results of their organising
work behind ; and, though there may be just as capabl
men to take their places, the premature loss of
men who had been mainly responsible for making
the business shows how necessary it is, in any such
concern, to quickly write down goodwill out of pro-
fits. This co. attended to that matter splendidly.
The price paid for goodwill was £72.377 ; all that
remains of it now is £20,000 —in other words, ex-
cept for that amount, the paper has all been replaced
out of profits by tangible assets. But the co. has
done more than that. Getting its pref. capital when
money was comparatively cheap, it pays only 6 p.c.
on £150,000 ; and on its ordinary capital (now
£200,000) it has resisted all temptations to pay
more than 8 p.c. The result is that, starting just
over 10 years ago, with tangible assets £72,377
less than its capital, it has now tangible assets
£68,964 in excess of its capital; which means that
in these few years its profits have exceeded the divi-
dends by no less than £141,341. In the six years
since the public first came into the co. the cut-up has
been as follows: —
Paid away in dividends. . . . . . £132,004
Written off leaseholds, plant and fixtures 17,911
Put to reserves .. .. .. .. 91,754
Total profit (six years) .. ..£241,669
It is a most creditable performance.
Compared with the previous year, the past year s
profits don’t look well. Part of the big fall is,
however, due to the previous year's figures having
been inflated by a sale of freehold at a profit of
£8026. Even so, there is a considerable’ shrinkage.
Calculated on the capital in the business and the
undivided profits, the return is, indeed, smaller than
in any year of the past seven. In 1906, when the
co. made £.30,656, the capital was £250,000; now,
with £350,000 of capital and over £lOO,OOO more
of undivided profit, the co. has made only £36,121.
'ibis, of course, isn’t pleasant; nevertheless two
things can be said: (1) the co.’s freeholds and lease-
holds are now considerably greater, and when you
have the security of city property you can’t expect
to get a high interest-return for the money put into
it; (2) the surplus profit, after providing for the
cumulative pref. dividend and the depreciation of
leaseholds, etc., was equal to very nearly 12 p.c. on
the ordinary capital. Put in another way, profits
might shrink £7742 before the co. would have in-
sufficient to pay the present 8 p.c. on ordinaries. They
probably will shrink. No doubt this co. has been
spending a good deal of money on which it has got
little or no return during the past year ; but that is
not likely to be a full set-off against the shrinkage
of trade and profit which will follow the collapse of
the borrowing boom and the largely artificial prosperity
which every borrowing boom produces. Last year
(to June 30, 1913) the Government of N. S. Wales
spent £3,053,362 more loan money than was ever
previously spent in a year by the wildest boomster
among State Governments. The total State expendi-
ture was £25,889,811, or £4,005,000 more than in
the previous year ; and not only was a vast amount
of loan money spent on loan works, but over
£1,000,000 was spent on ordinary services in excess
of the revenue. It is certain that the borrowing
cannot continue; but that won’t end the trouble —
we shall not only have to make good last year’s
million deficit, but we shall have to get £1,000,000
more of revenue from somewhere or cut £1,000,000
off the ordinary services somewhere. Good seasons
may relieve us of some of the effects of this mad
financing, but a certain amount of depression is posi-
tively inevitable; and Marcus Clark’s, being to a
considerable extent a furnishing business (largely on
time-payment), looks as though it might suffer
rather beyond the average from the slump.
Though, as mentioned above, the capital has been
increased by £lOO,OOO in the past few years, and
though large amounts of profit have been put aside,
the co. has launched out so vigorously that its lia-
bilities to the public have grown, too: —
1906. 1911. 1912. 1913.
Mortgages .. £40,800 £50,000 £42,000 £40,000
Other debts.. 65,262 81,017 111,189 107,910
Total . . £106,062 £131,017 £153,189 £147,910
Until the total is much smaller than it is at pre-
sent, the management will do the right thing in
sitting hard on the dividend. If business eases off,
it will, no doubt, be fairly simple to reduce the
figure still further than has been done during the
past year. This shows where the money is: —
1906 1911. 1912. 1913.
Stock. . . . £96,965 £209,271 £214,587 £211,175
Book debts .. 124,289 175,791 193,116 182,477
Freeholds . . 77,093 92,451 82,455 82,159
Leaseholds . . 14,093 26,751 42,827 64,220
Plant, etc. . . 17.354 18.428 19,433 19,033
Cash, etc. . . 3,943 8,564 24,492 20,310
So it will be seen that, though over £22,000 has been
put into leaseholds during the year, the liabilities
have actually been reduced. It has been done by
shortening stock and book-debts ; and, in view of the
liabilities which are still big and the outlook which
is still thundery, the movement ought to continue.
* * * *
Farmer and Co., Ltd., with its office in
London and a softgoods shop in Sydney: —
Reserves
(Goodwill
Dividends. not reck-
r . a N oned as
July, Profits. Pref. 6 p.c. Ordinary. an Asset).
1905. . £18,411 £12,000 10 p.c. =£ 15,608 £lB7
1906.. 19,001 12,000 4 „ ~ 6,249 939
1907.. 22,223 12,000 7 „ 10,936 226
1908.. 28,702 12,000 8 „ ~ 12,498 4,430
1909.. 32,706 12,000 8 „„ 12,498 12,638
1910.. 35,206 12,000 8 „„ 12,498 23,346
1911.. 38,945 12,000 10 „„ 15,623 34,668
1912.. 43,027 12,000 12£ „ „ 19,529 46,166
1913.. 47,223 12,000 12! „ „ 19,529 61,860
In one shape or another Farmer and Co. date back
to the infancy of the Oldest Inhabitant; but the pre-
sent co. only arrived in 1897, and Australia had very
little to do with financing it. When it was formed,
the vendors took ordinary shares, and John Bull sub-
scribed £150,000 in 6 p.c. cumulative pref. shares.
Subsequently other issues were made, and the capital
is now £200,000 in £lO prefs., and £156,230 in
£lO ordinaries. There are 4377 ordinaries unissued.
Five or six years ago, when Australia was handling
big wool and wheat cheques, shares, both pref. and
ordinary, began to pass out to this country in consid-
erable numbers; and in several ways besides that,
Farmer and Co., Ltd., has been growing more Aus-
tralian ever since. Its position is exceptionally
solid. Down to 1907 it had practically no reserves,
and didn’t bother about such things; it was prac-
tically a private concern, and the owners cut up
profits as they were made. That left the co. appar-
ently weak; yet it was doubtless stronger than it
looked, because the rule seems to have been, when
building improvements were made, to pay for them
out of earnings, and charge the cost up along with
working exes. And this rule seems to have been
followed for some time afterwards, so that, though
many thousands of pounds were certainly spent
between 1908 and 1911, the premises account actu-
ally stood at rather less in the latter year than in
the former. Since then, however, big purchases and
additions have been made, and to-day freehold pre-
mises and plant stand in the books at £328,121, or
£102.000 more than in 1911. The remarkable thine
is that there has been no increase of capital and
none of fixed debt or mortgage in making these pur-
chases-, ‘etc. Cash at bankers has been drawn upon to
some extent; sundry creditors (apparently trade
creditors) have increased by £27,000 ; for the rest
the undivided profit has seen the co. through. Even
with the increase noted in trade debts, the liabilities
(including mortgage) amount to only £135,583.
Against capital, reserves and liabilities there are
£ 585,204 of tangible assets. (For some unknown
reason goodwill is still allowed to lumber the
balance-sheet —£30,000.) Of the £585,204 of tan-
gible assets, no less than £328,121 is in freehold
property and plant. Book debts are only £28.653
The balance is nearly all stock. Put it this way.
On July 31 the co. had enough liquid assets (includ-
ing book debts) to pay off £35,929 of its liabilities,
leaving £99,654 to pay. To represent that and the
capital (£356,230) there were: Stock, £188,050;
freeholds, £328,121; and a few comparative trifles
in the way of leaseholds. After providing for all its
liabilities, this co. can show 64 p.c. of its capital in
city freehold premises; and a co. which can have that
proportion of its capital in such gilt-edged securities
and still pay p.c. on its ordinary shares, may
reckon itself in luck. But this CO. can do more: it
can pay 124 P-e. and put by enough to pay another
10 p.c. The Bulletin doesn’t for a moment sup-
pose such profits will last for ever. Sydney has been
passing through a few years when it hasn’t mat-
tered much what the drapery cost : and no doubt the
goods have been marked accordingly. It will matter
some day. When that time comes. Farmer's share-
holders will at any rate have the blessed satisfaction
of knowing that the splendid property asset is at
the back of the capital, anyway.
The Herald and Weekly Times, Ltd.
(Melbourne) :
Dividends.
Pref. Written
Profits. (6 p. c.) Ord. (iff. Deficit.
5ept.,1905.. £15,306 £3750 10p.c. =£6250 £706 £'50,942
Mar., 1906.. 13,846 3750 10,, „ 6250 722 147,818
Sept., 1906.. 16,01-2 3750 10 „ „ 6250 724 142,530
Mar., 1907.. 15,600 3750 12 „,, 7500 962 139,142
gept.,1907.. 15,666 3750 12 „,, 7500 979 135,705
Mar., 1908.. 16,579 3750 12 „ „ 7500 989 131,365
Sept., 1908.. 17,436 3750 12 „ ~ 7500 4,085 129,264
Mar., 1909.. 15,485 3750 12-,, „ 7500 1,287 126,316
Sept., 1909.. 18,773 3750 12 „ „ 7500 1,568 120,361
Mar., 1910.. 17,987 3750 12 „ „ 7500 1,338 114,962
Sept., 1910.. 20,870 3750 12 „ „ 7500 1,403 106,745
Mar., 1911.. 20,868 3750 2 „ ~ 7500 1,376 98,503
Sept., 1911.. 20,699 3750 12 ~ ~ 7500 1,299 90,353
Mar., 1912.. 19,782 3750 12 ~ ~ 7500 1,282 83,103
Sept., 1912.. 23,077 3750 12 „ ~ 7500 1,267 72,543
Mar., 1913.. 19,762 3750 12 „ „ 7500 1,260 65,291
Sept., 1913.. 16,138 3750 12,, „ 7500 12,053 72,456
This is the Herald’s turn to be sorrowful. “It will
be observed,” the directors say, “that the profit is
a reduction on the amount earned in the preceding
period. This is accounted for partly by the cost of
the new cable service, and still more by the largely
increased cost of producing newspapers generally” ;
and then, without a thought, of course, for the
threatening Mirror., the directors proceed into
details, explaining, among other things, that “the
wages and salary increases of the last 34 years
amount to upwards of £lO,OOO per annum.” This
reviewer doesn’t question the figures. Nevertheless,
he notes that the co. never before showed anything
like the profits it did in the 12 months ended
March, 1913. From that it would seem as though
the co. flourished on higher expenses. And no doubt
it has done so ; like a thousand other concerns, it has
got threepence for every extra tuppence it has had
to pay out. Now, this would be all very splendid
if things would continue like that. But the chances
are they won’t. The extra tuppence, or the greater
part of the extra tuppence, will continue to be called
for long after the extra threepence has left off coming
in. It is easy to put up wages and salaries and in-
crease other exes, on account of boom business and
receipts; it is the Devil’s own job to null them
down again. So, while The Bulletin isn’t as deeply
impressed as it ought to be with the sudden slump in
profits and the incidental lamentations, it is quite
prepared to admit that profits may presently shrink
as much below normal as lately they have been above
normal.
However, let the Herald thank its lucky stars
that, though it started with a terrific loading of
goodwill, and though nearly all Melbourne has said
unkind things of it at some time or other, it has
blown off nearly £BO.OOO of the froth in the past
eight years. Or take this view over seven years
Liabilities.
Sept., Sept., Sept., Mar., Sept.,
1906. 1911. 1912. 1913. 1913.
£ £ £ £ £
Sundry creditors 3,511 4,377 4,508 27,065 24,(101
Assets.
Freehold.. .. 31,360 52,517 59,493 60,108 60,244
Machinerv . . 29,319 24,597 24,926 58,561 54,807
Stock ..' .. 9,400 14,013 15,153 18,415 32,7’1
Liquid assets.. 50,902 84,147 93,642 85,940 65,014
Its liabilities are, certainly, £20,490 more than thev
were seven years ago ; but it has £28,884 more in
freeholds, £25,488 more in plant, £23,331 more in
stock, and £14,112 more in cash, etc. The out-
goings in plant during the past 12 months have been
very heavy, and the interest-earning liquid assets
have been cut into severely:—
Sept.,’l2. Sent..’ l 3.
Liquid assets .. .. £93,643 £65,013
Liabilities .. .. 4,508 24,001
Surplus of liquid assets. . £89,135 £41,012
Still, with a fiend branded “Competition” poking
its nose into Melbourne, what else could the co. do?
The Swan Brewery Co., Perth (Wes-
tralia) :
Writ-
Dividends ten To Re- Re-
Profits. and Div. Tax. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £.
Mar., ’07..24,601 24 p.c. =12,783 617 11,201 176,943
Sept.,’o7.. 14,528 24 „ ~12,783 1020 725 177,668
Mar., ’08..22,829 24 „ ~12,783 786 9,260 186,928
Sept.,’oB. .15,265 24 ~ ~12,783 697 1,785 188,713
Mar., ’O9. .24,743 24 „ ~12,783 1777 10,183 198,896
Sept.,’o9. .17,355 24 ~ ~12,783 1500 3,072 201,968
Mar., ’10..27,223 24 „ ~12,783 2229 12,211 214,179
(Pref. div., 6p.c.)
5ept.,’10..17,350[ 2^P’ c ’ ==12 2,954 217,133
Mar., ’11..35,424 } 2 g ” ” 12 (2972 18,842 235,975
Sept.,’ll ..21,604-j 2 g ” ” 12, g 27 [ 1037 6,957 242,932
Transferred to capital, £101,450 .. 141,482
Mar., ’12..36,460 -j pc ’ = 17 >°^} 734 17,856 159,338
Sept.,’l2.. 18,326 j l ® ”’’ 17 917 ~ 158,877
Mar., ’13..38,114 j” ” 17, 416 19,667 178,544
5ept.,’13..21,407-J ” ” 17 ’®7g} 837 1,951 180,495
The capital is now £202,900 in ordinary shares of
255. each, and £50,000 in 6 p.c. pref. shares. Half
the ordinary capital was distributed in free shares
three years ago; and the pref. capital has lately
been doubled at par. The co., which was started in
Melbourne during the Victorian boom, did poorly for
some years, but was on hand when the Coolgardie
rush led on to the great things of Kalgoorlie and
other fields. It was thirsty work, that; and this co.
was soon in clover. As money was made, the surplus,
after paying a fat dividend, was mostly put into
pub property; and to-day that asset stands for
£250,354 in the books. This is cost price. Nothing
has been written off for depreciation, which is a
mistake. It is, no doubt, quite true that some of
the properties are worth a heap more than they were
when the co. bought them ; but that is no reason why
the wear and tear of the buildings shouldn’t be paid
for out of the rents those buildings earn. They will
have to be replaced some day, and the replacement
ought to be provided for out of profits—to the ex-
tent, anyway, of the value of the old buildings when
the co. “bought them. Still, though the co. doesn’t
write off anything for depreciation of buildings, this
paper isn’t going to accuse it of inflating its profits.
On the contrary, it has all along written down its
plant severely, until what cost £144,789 stands in
the books at £73,310. Also, repairs and mainten-
ance of properties run into an average of close on
£7UOO a ycm\ Apart from the freehold brewery
premises, and the plant, and the quarter-million or
hotel properties, the co.’s chief assets are advances
( £41,973), book debts ( £29,943) hnd stock
( £32,042) ; but as against these are mortgages,
etc., for £57,462. Freehold rents, apparently aftet
providing for interest on the mortgages, brought in
£9892 last half-year—enough to pay the pref. divi-
dend and 5 p.c. on the ordinaries, after allowing for
repairs and maintenance. The trading part of the
business did the rest.
As for the future—well, in the first place, this
is a co. whose business is to sell beer and, inci-
dentally, extract rent for pub properties; and beer
and pubs have many enemies. Westralia doesn’t look
like a place where the Wowser would be a power
in the land ; yet, no doubt for that very reason,
more has been done in that State than in any other
towards making the liquor business a State-owned
monopoly. Progress along those lines is, however,
very slow ; and there doesn't seem to be much danger
to this co. from that source for many
years to come. There is much more danger
of a slump in profits resulting from a general
slump in the State’s prosperity. In the past 14
years £91,000,000 worth of gold has been dug up
out of Westralia, and well over £50,000,000 of that
and subscribed money has been spent locally; and.
meantime, another £15,000,000 has been borrowed
and spent by the State. No small State could fail
to boom under such circumstances. But the gold
output is easing off; borrowing is maintained onlv
with difficulty and at high rates of interest; and
many agricultural failures seem inevitable. These
things point to ona conclusion. Of course, Westralia
isn't going to crumple up. But it will have to settle
down to corned beef and carrots after its gorgeous
time of turkev and truffles. Some businesses may be
affected thereby hardly at all ; but the liquor busi-
ness certainly will be.
The Denton llat Mills, Ltd. (Mel-
bourne), from the last issue of a few new shares in
the old co. at a small premium:—
Net Written To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1901.. £2,857 10 p.c. =£2450 £407 £4487
1902.. 2,955 10 „ „ 2450 505 4992
1903.. 3,268 10 „ „ 2584 £1045 4631
1904.. 3,117 10 „ „ 2990 127 4758
1905. . 3,208 10 „ „ 3000 208 4966
1906.. 3,363 10 „,, 3000 363 5329
1907.. 3,684 10 „ „ 3000 684 6013
1908.. 3,969 10 „ 3000 969 6982
New co. formed ; capital increased to
£45,t)05, of which only the odd £5
appears to have been paid in cash.
1909.. 5,636 9 p.c. = 4125 1511 1511
1910.. 6,923 12j „ „ 5626 1297 2808
1911.. 7,919 13£ „ „ 6188 1731 4539
1912.. 10.894 13f „ „ 6188 4706 9845
£9OOl of reserves capitalised . 244
1913.. 10,636 132 P c.= 6976 3660 3904
Big warehouses in Melbourne are very largely inter-
ested in this co. ; in fact, it is to a great extent a
co-operative manufacturing concern. Hence a market
is more or less assured. In the past year fashion
favored the co. through “an exceptional demand for
ladies’ felts” ; also, the co. secured a contract for
military hats. Thus, one way and another, it had
a second remarkably fine 12 months. Having, as
before remarked, a close connection with various big
warehouses, it doesn’t have to spend very large sums
in roping in customers ; also, “no provision for bad
or doubtful debts is considered necessary.” Capital
(watered out of reserves, as shown above) is now
£54,006; and though that is a small amount for a
business of this size, the co. manages to get along
without any mortgages or other borrowed money, and
its liabilities on all accounts run to only £8162.
The assets include the factory (freehold) at Abbots-
ford, plant, stock ( £22,166), book-debts ( £19,694)
and sundry cash and other credits amounting to
about £7OOO. Altogether the co. is on a very fine
wicket, mainly the result of the trade connection
before-mentioned. Still, a trade connection won t
make custom if the public hasn’t the money to buy
a hat; and the large capacity of the public to buy
hats during the past few years is reflected in the
first column of the table.
The East Greta Coal Mining Co.
(N.S.W.) :
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends, Off. serves, serves.
Mar., 1906.. £3,528 sp.c. =£3,554 £lOOO £13,971
Sept., 1906.. 2,368 5 „ „ 3,750 12,589
Mar., 1907.. 6,666 5 „ „ 3,750 2000 £916 13,505
Sept., 1907.. 14,916 10 ~ ~ 7,500 7000 416 13,921
Mar., 1908.. 19,782 10 „ ~ 7,500 6500 5,782 19,703
Sept., 1908.. 16,829 10 ~ ~ 7,500 2500 6,829 26,532
Mar., 1909.. 9,510 10 ~ ~ 7,500 2000 10 26,542
Sept., 1909.. 9,130 10 ~ „ 7,500 1630 26,542
Loss.
Mar., 1910.. 3,073 Nil 23,469
Profits.
Sept., 1910.. 26,263 15p.c. = 11,250 4000 11,013 34,482
Mar., 1911.. 12,665 1 5 ~ ~ 11,250 1,415 35,897
5ept.,1911.. 12,281 10 ~ ~ 7,500 4,781 40,678
Mar., 1912.. 8,125 10 „ „ 7,500 3500 37,803
Sept., 1912.. 15,290 10 ~ ~ 7,500 3050 4,740 42,543
Mar., 1913.. 17,664 10 ~ ~ 7,500 3205 6,959 49,502
Sept., 1913.. 18,084 10 „ ~ 7,500 3303 7,281 56,783
You are not permitted to know more about this than
most coal-mining cos. Curiously enough, coal shares
are regarded as “investments” by the Stock Exchange,
and not as mining speculations; yet the big copper or
silver mining concern which didn’t give, or at any
rate profess to give, far more information than the
most talkative coal co., would be howled at till
every dog in the city was awake. About all that is
known in this case is that the co. owns the Last.
Greta and Stanford Merthyr coal-mines and the Last
Greta railway, valuable properties all of them.
Some years ago the co. plainly wrote down its min-
ing properties out of profits; and probably it is
doing the same now —if there is anything more t 0
write down. Six years ago the mines had f been
written down to under £20,000. Nowadays
ing and house properties, railway and _ sidings are
lumped, and the value put upon them is £102,021).
There is 244 miles of substantial 4ft. BAin. railway,
and the co. has the right to carry passengers as we
as freight over it. When 24} miles of substantial line is
cut out of £102,026, there isn’t much left to represeni
the mining properties and houses. The co. s capita
is £150.000; and the position in other respects is
shown hereunder: —
Sent., Sent.,
1908. 1913. ,
Total liabilities ..£17,359 £53,743 Inc. £36,
Assets.
Mines, plant, etc. . . 185,269 226,847 Inc. t 1,a7
Cash, etc - 7,999 nc. 7,999
Sundry debtors .. 15,718 21,714 Inc. ’’
During the past three years visible profits ha
totalled £84,109, and the dividend (10 P-C-
-more) has called for £48,750. Admitting ,
coal business is rather erratic, and that a
three years might easily show poorer results, , .
a fine enough margin there to make the shar
feel good. It has evidently made the d ' re^ s hav( ,
pretty good, too; for after one false start they n
issued a circular which, when you have P are
out, seems to mean that 31,250 new sh
offered in proportion to present holdin £ s J, in c
In the event of 22,500 of the new shares bemg
anplied for at par, it is proposed to’ ™ r bee „
other 18,750 out of reserves. As I sh ? t re o S J‘^ a safe
worth over 28s. for some time past, it seen
thing to say that the 22,500 will
The bonus will be equal to one share for e
eight now held pUs the right to take one for
five (or thereabouts) at par. The la t]* r js .
sideration, of course, seeing that, in spite o
sions and other outgoings of various hind .
p.c. dividend seems just about as safe as any
can be in* a coal-mining concern.


The Pacific Cable Board
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, GERMANY, etc.
New Direct Cable to Auckland from Board’s
Sydney Office opened December, 1912.
A Week End rate is now available between
Great Britain and Australasia. Rate 9d. per
word with minimum of 18s. (24 words).
Week End Cable Letters are accepted up to
midnight on Saturday for delivery in Great
Britain on the following Tuesday morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “VIA PACIFIC.”
Daily.
Ordinary.
. . 3/-
3/-
•/4*
2/4
Deferred.
1/6
1/6
1/2
2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 1/4
5/8* 2/10}
America and other
Great Britain ..
Germany
New Zealand ..
Canada
U.S.A
Argentine, Brazil, I
Chili and Peru I
West Indies, Central
rates on application.
Cable Forms, Deferred and Week End
Regulations mav be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Pi}t Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346 (3 lines).
408 Collins Street, Melbourne. Tel. 2SBB.
.1. MILWARD, Manager in the Pacific^
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
s
m
Established 34 Years.
THE Trustees, Executors
and Agency Co., Ltd.,
412 Collins St., Melbourne.
The Company acts as
EXECUTOR,
ADMINISTRATOR,
TRUSTEE,
AGENT.
Estates Administered Exceed £25.000,000.
Please call or write for Pamphlet.
JAS. BORROWMAN, General Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Manager.
A great mistake, when erecting new works or re-
arranging old ones, is often made in constructing the
building and installing machinery ere looking round
for means of transport of the raw material, half-
manufactured and finished goods. Messrs. Adolf
Bleichert and Co., of London, have issued various
catalogues and leaflets, illustrating and describing a
few of the many transport systems and plants which
they have supplied, and which show the solution of
the transport question and the advantages of em-
ploying such appliances. W. and J. Lempriere,
Melbourne and Sydney, are the Australian representa-
tives, and would be pleased to hear from those in-
terested. A specially trained engineer is retained to
consult and advise.*
Mine managers and engineers contemplating Re-
inforced concrete construction should write for par-
ticulars of the Indented Steel Bar, which gives the
greatest bond, and is the strongest and cheapest re-
inforcement on the market. Used by the N. S.
Wales and Queensland railways for bridges, by the
Sydney Water and Sewerage Board for elevated re-
servoirs, by the N. S- Wales Government Architect,
and by all the leading architects. Should guaranteed
designs be required for concrete structures, our ex-
pert will be pleased to furnish plans and descrip-
tions. Apply, Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.*
For rapid and accurate sizing of samples, the
Hoover Rapid Laboratory Sizer is unsurpassed. An
ordinary hand test over 12 different mesh screens
takes about 10 hours to complete, the Hoover Sizer
will make the same test in about half an hour. By
the use of one of these Sizers the saving in time
would, in a very short while, cover the small initial
cost of the machine. The machine can be dressed
with any series of screens. The Austral Otis Eng.
Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, will be pleased to furnish
particulars.* [4
Extract from Financier, dated London, September
,1911_: “The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society is well recognised as an institution which
typifies the enterprise and energy of the land of its
birth, and not only in Australasia but in Great
Britain and South Africa it has proved itself one
of the most progressive of the great Life Offices.”*
* * * *
PIONEER WOOD PIPE, used in connection with
dredging, is a success. The co. now manufactures a
specially durable pipe for this purpose, which will
carry the heaviest and most gritty without injury
to the pipe. Particulars from The Australian Wood
Pipe Co. Ltd., 57 York Street, Sydney.*
Mr. R. O’Hara, Glen Innes, writes: “I have much
pleasure in advising you that I have now used the
34-B.H.P. Hornsby Stationary Oil Engine for the
past eight seasons, shearing over 130,000 sheep, some
of the shearers tallying over 200 sheep per day, the
average 1684 per man. During the whole time I
have had the engine in use it has never given the
slightest trouble, and not a moment has been lost,
the shearers stating that they have never experienced
such a smooth-running engine.”—R. HORNSBY &
SONS, Ltd., Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane.*
LARGE CAPITAL AVAILABLE.—Good mining
properties. Industrials. Patents. Properties in-
spected and business propositions investigated in any
part of Commonwealth and abroad. Reply with par-
ticulars to Private Box No. 49, General Post Office,
Melbourne.*
The highest returns for all kinds of residues are
obtained from Harringtons Ltd. of 386 George
Street, Sydney, who buy large or small quantities of
jewellers’ sweeps, polishings, handwash and lemel,
process workers’ residues, plating baths and any
other materials containing gold, silver or platinum.
Assays are executed for jewellers within two or three
hours, and prospectors and others are assured of
immediate attention. All kinds of analytical and
metallurgical work can be. executed promptly and
advice given on all branches of industrial chemistry
and metallurgy. The whole of the work is directed
by a qualified analyst and metallurgist from Johnson
and Sons, London, Assayers and Refiners to the Bank
of England, H.M. Mint, the Council of India, etc.,
and who are acting as London agents for Harring-
tons Ltd. for the treatment of large parcels of
sweeps, residues, ores, etc. Direct shipment of such
lots can be arranged.*
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.*
Engineers will be interested to know that in the
year 1889 the Victorian Water Supply Department
laid a line of 24in. diameter W.I. Pipes, to supply
the city of South Melbourne with water. These
pipes were coated with asphaltum composition in
the usual way, and were made by Mr. Mephan Fergu-
son. The ground in which they" were laid was parti-
cularly unfavorable to the preservation of any unpro-
tected metals, being originally swampy land contain-
ing much vegetable matter, and filled with tidal
dredgings. Recently the Melbourne and Metropolitan
Board of Works effected alterations, and installed a
new main. The old pipes were, therefore, taken up,
and on examination were found to be in an excellent
state of preservation, and the Board’s engineers were
so satisfied with their condition that they decided to
use them again. They were therefore removed to the
Works of Messrs. Mephan Ferguson Proprietary
Limited, at Footscray, Victoria, where these 24-year-
old pipes were cleaned, re-tested and re-coated with
asphaltum composition in a new and improved pro-
cess. They are now being re-laid in a position where
they will have to withstand a working pressure of
1351 b. to the square inch. That the asphaltum pro-
cess for coating pipes is rust-proof and thoroughly
efficacious is proved by the foregoing.*
H.M.A.S. Australia, now in Australian waters, is
fitted entirely with Babcock and Wilcox Water-tube
Boilers, similar to the H.M.S. New Zealand and
other Dreadnoughts recently built for the Admiralty.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Coluson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
* ♦ * *
Assayers, Mine Managers and Prospectors write
to H. B. Silberberg and Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, and at Melbourne, for particulars concerning
mining requisites and .scientific apparatus. Braun’s
disc pulverisers to 200 mesh ; hand sample grinders to-
-120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospectors’ balances to 1/1000
grain ; weieh't; pocket transits ; gasoline
furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles: chemicles; etc.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Mount Lyell Mining and Rail-
way Co.: —
Dividends and Written Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves.
£ £ £ £
Mar., 1905. . 161,755 12 p.c.= 78,750 8,764 238,087
Sept., 1905. . 201,985 124„ „ 78,750 9,021 352,301
Mar., 1906. . 267,795 20 „ ~126,000 8,713 485,383
Sept., 1906. . 251,095 25 „ ~157,500 10,071 568,907
Mar., 1907. . 282,938 32,},, ~205,074 11,515 635,256
Sept., 1907. . 150,625 35 „ ~220,551 11,740 553,590
Mar., 1908. . 141,730 20 „ ~126,168 9,723 559,429
Sept., 1908. . 168,130 17J„ ~110,364 12,006 605,189
Mar., 1909. . 141,683 174,, ~110,372 10,153 626,347
Sept., 1909. . 155,081 174„ ~110,300 9,930 661,198
Mar., 1910.-131,506 174„ ~111,094 10,076 671,534
Sept., 1910. . 106,274 174 „ ~110,594 10,147 657,067
Mar., 1911. . 100,022 124 „ „ 79,282 9,964 667,843
Sept., 1911.. 83,775 124 „ „ 80,098 9,468 662,052
Mar., 1912.. 31,596 Nil 11,082 682,566
Premiums on new shares, £21,685. . 704 251
Sept., 1912. . 122.009 124 p.c.= 80,922 9,608 735,730
Mar., 1913.. 5,014 Nil 32,738 708,006
Sept., 1913.. 53,462 Nil 32,249 729,219
Again an unusual amount is shown as written off,
£20.859 of it being due to encroachments on the
Reserve Fund to square things up over the North
Lyell fire. The total direct cost of that disaster, in-
cluding compensation, was £42,141, all of which
has now been met. The indirect cost was probably
greater; for, though ore which isn’t taken out to-
day mostly waits to be called for to-morrow, there
is the loss of interest on capital to be taken into
account. The co. has had a pretty long struggle to
get things back to the old state again ; but it
arrived there recently. The figures for the current
half-year should therefore be normal. Those for the
period under review are not.
The figures of most practical consequence in the
present report relate to reserves. A re-estimation has
been made, and the calculations work out as follows:
Quantity. Copper. Silver. Gold,
tons. p.c. oz. oz.
Mount Lyell . . 2,202,335 053 1.96 .027
North Lyell . . 1,086,112 6.00 1.33 .005
Now take the ore treated since the present co. was
formed in 1903:
Quantity. Copper. Silver. Gold,
tons. p.c. oz. oz.
Mount Lyell . . 2,475,956 0.81 1.94 .060
North Lyell . . 1,108,237 6.07 1.52 .004
The shrinkage in the copper value of Lyell ore is
serious; it takes three tons of ore to give' the return
which two tons formerly gave, and’ the cost of
recovery is much greater. Still the reserves are verv
fine: there is nearly as much metal proved in the
mine as the co. has taken out of it in 10 years,
during which it has paid 295. per share in ‘ divs.
( £1,770,000). The copper contents of the ore
treated since 1903 were 87,300 tons ; in the ore now
proved, 76,700 tons. The gold contents of ore await-
ing treatment are about 8500 oz. less. It is not
possible, though, to make a simple proportion sum
of it, and say “If 3,500,000 tons of ore have given
295. in dividends, how much will 3,200,000 tons give?”
A dozen things may creep in to cause a disturbance.
Costs are thus a most important factor. These are higher
now ; on the other hand, the co. is no doubt making
a lot of money out of its chemical works, which
are a comparatively modern installation.
Last half-year, as mentioned just now, production
and costs were not normal. Still, take that term
as a basis. The input to the treatment plants from
the Lyell and North Lyell mines was 129,725 tons.
The co.’s profit (after writing off depreciation) was
e42,l4l=about 6s. Bd. per ton, assuming that all
the profit was from these ores. At that rate, the
reserves would be worth £1,096,000. To that add
the surplus of liquid assets, £486,498. Total,
£1,582,498. There are 1,286,786 shares=2ss.
per share. That valuation is based on last half-
vear’s work, and should, under the exceptional cir-
cumstances, considerably understate the position. No
credit is taken directly for the ore reserves of the
Comstock and Tharsis; and, so far as the former is
concerned, it is very probable that good profits will
be made by the flotation process. Last half-year a
few thousand tons of ore from these mines were
smelted, and whatever profits they yielded have been
credited to Lvell and North Lyell. This is some set-
off against the non-inclusion of estimates for the
Comstock and Tharsis.
And then there is the superphosphate business. The
profits from this are thrown into the heap. The co.
has never given the smallest indication of what this
business is worth ; profits have always been tossed in
with those from mining and smelting. What profit
the copper and precious metals yield can thus only be
guessed at. The 6s. Bd. per ton above-mentioned in-
cludes the profits from the fertiliser business; and
the maintenance of that profit is (given similar con-
ditions) dependent on the maintenance of profits from
the side-line. It is a fairlv safe assumption that
things with this business will get no worse. Agri-
culture is growing and will certainly go on growing,
and with it will grow the demand for fertilisers.
The future of the business is, therefore, very bright
indeed—and the future, so far as profits are con-
cerned, isn’t likely to be any the less bright because
of the arrival of a “pup” co. to take over the in-
terests of this and the other principal artificial manure
business is S. Aus. This “pup,” as mentioned last
week, is to have a capital of £400,000 —a pretty
good indication of the size to which this industry
has already grown, seeing that the new co. is con-
cerned only with the business in one State.
* * * »
Broken Hill Junction North reports a
nrofit of £36,619 for the past half-year, which is
highly respectable. The mine is the co.’s weak
point; reserves are poor, and the purchase and treat-
ment of other cos.’ by-products is an uncertain reed
to lean on. There have been big profits from it of
late, certainly; but everything has been favoring
them. This co. lost a valuable asset lately when
Owen, the young Australian who has been doing fine
work with the selective (flotation) process, was
snapped up for an American job.
* * * *
In its early days Broken Hill used only
Australian hardwoood for underground timbering;
but American managers came in on a flood, and
thereafter, for many years, only Oregon was looked
at. Lately the pendulum has started to swing the
other way, and Block 14, among others, is finding
that the change pays. The old softwood is still
most used, but the proportion in Block 14 has got
down to three of Oregon to one of hardwood.
* * * *
Golden Ridge (W.A.) denies the soft
impeachment that it is about to acquire the Yerilla
King group. So far, the Board has not made up its
mind one way or the other, and it may be weeks
or months before it does so. Meantime the pro-
perties are locally stated to be opening up fairly
well, and a winze started at 230 ft. level is reported
to be in fair values.
At the Lake V iew and Oroya meeting, in
London, chairman F. A. Govett said, in regard to
the Burma mines, in which the co. holds a large
and hitherto unprofitable interest, that a big lode
had been opened up which justified the expectations
of the past. But, according to Hoover, it is ex-
tremely doubtful if this lode is amenable to any of
the processes now in commercial use for treating
lead and zinc ores. However, there is also a copper
lode. Its width is irregular, and its average size at
present unknown ; but 14 p.c. assays have been got
over a width of 36ft. More money has been put up,
and this year ought to show the real value of the
property. When Govett had finished this story,
nobody asked what had happened to all the high
values and brilliant prospects referred to at previous
meetings, or what had become of all the promised
divs. that the prehistoric Chinamen were alleged to
have left behind. Everyone seemed content to swal-
low the chairman’s parting remark that the specu-
lative value was great aud the possibilities varied
and extensive—just as previous meetings had done.
One thing that leaked out at the Lake
v iew and Oroya meeting was that the ore in the
Yuanmi (W.A.) had developed more arsenic in depth,
treatment had consequently become difficult, but
hopes were entertained of obtaining a satisfactory
extraction with the new sulphide plant. So far, re-
sults were declared to be promising. Though the
mine was shaping well, it was candidly admitted
that ore reserves were not sufficiently blocked out to
allow them to regard it as a permanent concern.
Altogether 128.415 tons of ore were ex-
tracted from the Kalgurli (W.A.) during its past
year. This was 4615 tons more than in the pre-
vious year, and slightly more than in any other
12 months. In addition to the ore taken out,
15,170 tons were broken and left in the stopes.
Breaking costs averaged 45., and inclusive of all
local expenditure excepting development (2s. 9d.),
total costs were 19s. 104 d.
Adelaide Westralia Syndicate had the
mournful ending predicted in sorrow by this paper.
It tried to get hold of something at Ora Banda
while the Victorious leases were booming, but before
it had time to attract public attention the field’s
cake was dough. Most of the money subscribed was
expended in fares, telegrams, prospecting, etcetera,
and as a last resort the co. bought 25 Chaffinch
Option shares with the balance of the cash in hand.
A drill is now about to bore to 500 ft. in the old
Chaffinch lease, and on the result of its operations
all the hopes of the Adelaide-Westralia crowd de-
pends. One consolation is that it won’t be kept
long in suspense.
Great Boulder (W.A.) has got a further
extension of its option on the Big Bell leases near
Cue (W.A.). Almost every other day reports are
coming to hand about the good value of the reefs
and lodes in this show, and the splendid crushings
that have been taken out of it. In fact, there is so
much boosting that one feels suspicious.
Edna May Central, which recently
acquired the Myrtle leases at Westons’ (W.A.). has
appointed a manager and proposes to start work
right away. The co. is in 60,000 10s. shares, of
which 24,000 (distributed among the public) are
paid up to 7s. 6d., 24,000 fully paid are in the
possession of the vendors, 2000 ditto were annexed
by promoters, and 10,000 are in reserve. The show
is considered to have prospects, provided sufficient
hard capital is available to show what it is made of.
Mararoa (W.A.) isn’t looking any better,
and winzing below No. 9 level has been suspended
in order to crosscut 40ft. From there it is proposed
to let the diamond drill test the reef 300 ft. deeper
down, and also bore east and west to see if any ore
channels exist. A shaft is being put down on the
co.’s newly acquired Sydney Norseman leases, and
at 200 ft. the reef is of fair size but poor grade.
Values may increase when the sulphides are reached.
* ■* * *
Tindals (W.A.) has turned over a new
leaf, and is now making an apparently honest effort
to keep shareholders posted in regard to develop-
ments. Faul, the new attorney, is mainly responsible
for this change. In a recent report to the Board he
adopts a cautious attitude, which is in marked con-
trast to the old way of doing things. Some good
assays have lately been obtained, and all the work-
ings are reported to be in ore. At last the show is
apparently going to be given a chance to prove its
real capacity—if it has any. This paper fears it
hasn’t much.
* * * *
Payne’s Find (W.A.) is turning out as
The Bulletin feared it would. Development work
has shown the gold to be in narrow shoots, the stone
between the shoots being mostly worthless, and the
country rock much harder than the boomsters repre-
sented. Only one co. —Payne’s Development—is
operating on the field at present, and doubtless it
wishes it had never seen the place. The last six
months’ work resulted in a loss of some hundreds of
pounds, and, to make matters worse, someone stole
the proceeds of the last crushing from the manager’s
dwelling. The thief, the directors say, has not been
traced. Funds are very low, and apparently the end
is not far off.
E. A. Weinberg, who went to Germany
and London to raise eanital for the Hercules- cum-
Primrose-cwm-Zeehan smelter fusion, is not bringing
back a deal. Financial stringency is the reason
given for the failure. The Bulletin isn’t sorry.
There never was much sense in linking up the
Zeehan smelters with the Rosebery mines, especially
as Morse’s renort on the Oker and other processes
showed that the de-zincing of slags isn’t the sure
game some people talked. Meantime there hasn’t
been any stop to the experimenting with the crude
Rosebery ore by flotation So successful has been
the work that Barrier chemists think pretty well
the last word has been said on the subject. If so, a
Primrose-Hercules amalgamation without the smelter
is ahead. That will keep out the European gold-bug
and give Australian brains and cash a chance of
properly handling two decent mines.
“XX”; The Tasmanian Smelting Co., at
Zeehan, has again suspended operations. Last time it
was allegedly for want of ore; this time it is allegedly
for want of coke. The real reason is probably some-
thing else altogether. There certainly seems to be
little prospect of a resumption of work till the com-
pletion of the Hercules, Primrose and Smelting Co.
amalgamation. This amalgamation scheme has been
in the air for some time, and it has been said
vaguely that the necessary capital is assured, but
nothing definite is known. Even should things be
finalised, a process for the treatment of the zincifer-
ous ores has yet to be proved satisfactory. If the process
of zinc-extraction by the Metals-Extraction Co. at
Rosebery is successful (which should be demonstrated
within the next few weeks), it may alter the whole
position. This co., which has the right to the
whole of the product of the Tasmanian Conper Co.,
proposes to extract the zinc, leaving the residues, with
silver, lead, gold and copper contents, for further
treatment. With the zinc extracted, the treatment of
the residues is simple. If this co. succeeds, it may
pay the Hercules and Primrose better to extract the
zinc contents of their ore by this process, and after-
wards arrange for treatment of the residues at the
Zeehan or some other smelters. Meanwhile, the
Zeehan Smelting Co. is in other trouble. The Govern-
ment loaned it £20,000 four years ago, and has
subsidised it to the extent of nearly £7OOO per year
in addition. The co. was supposed to commence re-
payment of the loan in October last, but it
doesn’t appear to be in a position to do any repaying
just yet.
The fall in the price of tin means a lot to
Biscboff Extended (Tas.), but with a nest egg of
£4OOO and £lOOO of mine product on hand it can
go slow till better times put up the price of the
metal again. The co. has about 40,000 tons of ore
proved, averaging close on to a unit of tin. With
that grade it would do well enough, provided there
was cheap power, efficient labor and a decent climate.
Now that the summer is on, a bolder policy of test-
ing the lode formations is to be adopted. If results
add at all substantially to ore reserves, capital will
be available for more plant. This is the only way to
get the Extended out of the “stringer” stage in
which it landed after five years of hard toil.
* * *
For a mine, that has won over £lOl,OOO
worth of gold Nuggetty Ajax, Daylesford (Vic.), is in
the poor position of having to shoulder a loan of £lOOO
and to carry on with the aid of regular calls. Luck
simmered out when the church withdrew its patron-
age and flitted to bazaars for excitement. Taken as
a whole, work at the No. 7 level is almost the
limit; but as some few prospects have been got in
the north drive, the shaft is going down to learn
what is below. Seeing the way things have gone
with every other mine at Daylesford at depth, there
isn’t likely to be anything very cheerful in follow-
ing the fortunes of the Nuggettv deeper into the
bowels of the earth. That doesn’t mean that a final
ragtime will not come from Ballarat to enable folk
there to dance out the block of shares they are
holding. Still it won’t be easy to get rid of them ;
a bit more than the two p’s—“promising” and “pay-
able”—is required to bring in buyers for Daylesford
goods nowadays.
Victoria for the first 10 months of the
year produced 382,7510 z. fine gold, or 28,6230 z. less
than for the same term in 1912. This fall accounts
for the dreary state of the Stock Exchange. The
total is sure to dwindle if dredging in the Ovens
Valley is blocked. About the only local mining
tip heard is the Langi gutter, where half a dozen
shows are doddering along until the New Langi
rises into the wash. Mines Minister Billson ought to
compel sharper work in shaft-sinking, or biff loafers
out of their leases.
Williams United, Bendigo, with the aid of
several members of the Lansell family, has been
climbing up the hill, while Catherine Reef, next
door, has been sliding down the slippery slope. In
all 63 calls have had to be paid, leaving the leeway
of £45,000 to be made up to the faithful few who
have stuck to the mine all along. The co. is work-
ing at about 2100 ft. in the big ore channel operated
on north by Catherine Reef. Its last tally of
26-184 oz. from 9544 loads put it in credit, and the
chance is that higher stopes at 2100 ft. will enter
a richer run of spurs. So the co. is tipped to have
a spell of good times. Anyway, to make profits on
s£dwt. stone lifted from 2100 ft. while steady
development is being carried on indicates that Ben-
digo has adjusted its work to the poorer conditions
prevailing.
* * * *
Victoria, which owes more to mining than
any other State, bar, perhaps, Westralia, treats its
State geological staff like this. The average salary
in N. S. Wales is £430, in Westralia £414, in
Queensland £331, in Victoria only £258. Of the
laboratory staffs: N.S.W., £309; Westralia, £293;
Victoria, £195. Kitson got £325 a year in Vic-
toria. He has gone to Africa at £750. Thiele,
who also gets £750 in Africa, was paid £l3O in
Victoria. And Lewis, with £l5O, was transferred
to the Commonwealth, which judged him to be worth
£7OO.
“Rangan”: The Mount Morgan brigalow
question seems threatened with a violent end. The
evidence of various miners was so strongly against
the timber that it was only the influence of the co.
that obtained for it a six-months’ trial in a special
place in the mine. The miners’ unions have now
decided that after the six months are up, they will
not work with brigalow timber, anyhow; and, after
all, it is the miner who takes the risk, so his say
should he loudest.
Mount Elliott (Q.) in the past three years
has produced 16,760 tons copper from 136,175 tons
ore; but you can’t feed a furnace with the metal
that has passed. Last month Elliott, Hampden Con-
sols and Selwyn supplied 4461 tons of ore, which re-
turned 480 tons blister (6370 z. gold and 10560 z.
silver). This smelting of a ton of copper from less
than 10 tons of ore looks all right; but what of re-
serves? Development has been painfully slow, and
not productive of any big discovery below No. 5
level. And we hear nothing about sinking the main
shaft or opening deeper levels.
Blair Athol is the one Queensland colliery
that has caught on with the share market. Its paid
up capital is £37,896 and its market value £85,000.
Rather a stiff premium; but the quarterly divi-
dends are calculated to give 124 p.c. per annum
with shares at 16s. The net profit last half-year
was £5094, and the coal output 45,438 tons. Other
collieries are springing up, and Mount Morgan,
which has been taking some coal from Blair Athol, is
out prospecting for a colliery of its own ; nevertheless,
the Northern demand is big and increasing, and
there are few local mines in any sort of a position
to supply it.
* * * *
Brilliant Extended. Charters Towers,
finished its half-year in fairly good heart. From a
market point of view it ranks only fourth' on the
field. Mills United, Freeholds and Brilliant Deeps
being nominally, at any rate, of greater value; yet
the Extended is leading with regard to tonnage and
profits. Also, its 3000 ft. on the underlay is the
deepest hole at Charters Towers. The Freeholds holds
its superior position by reason of the fact that it is
safe for some good crushings from the new reef ; its
latest return was £1196 from 280 tons. Mills
United crushed a trial lot from No. 12—which gets
an extension of the Freeholds reef —for an average
of £4 6s. lid. The boom in Deeps has been fol-
lowed by a very dull time. The month’s crushing
(717 tons for £3657) was better; but costs are
heavy, and will continue so for some time to come.
The underlay shaft is making progress towards No. 7
level, but the reef met with in sinking is lightly
mineralised. No. 6 east level is in 161 ft., and
excent for one blank the reef has been payable, with
a thickness of from 2ft. to 6ft. Next year may see
a stir in Deeps, when the ventilation is improved.
“W.W.H.”: The last returns of the banks
carrying on business in Victoria show that on Sept.
30, 1913, they had their own notes still in circula-
tion to the value of £120,780, although the Com-
monwealth Note Act came into force in Nov., 1910.
This recalls that one of the boom banks which went
into liquidation over 20 years ago still has over
£3OOO i in hand to pay unpresented notes. It looks,
then, as though the banks are going to make a scoop
on other people’s money represented by notes that
have been lost in fire, flood, wreck, etc. The money
paid in exchange for the paper being the people’s
money, it seems only just that the Federal Parlia-
ment should provide that all money held for payment
of these notes, and not claimed after (say) 10 years
from the commencement of the Australian Notes Act,
should be paid into the Commonwealth Treasury.
The States (or most of them) have taken that action
with regard to unclaimed dividends, so if precedent
is wanted there is plenty of it available.
Following the present fashion, the Apple
Isle's oldest-established timber business, Henry Clark
and Co., has been converted into a limited liability
eo., with a capital of £20,000. The energetic A. J.
Nettlefold is one of the managing directors, so things
should shift. The new co. is keen on manufacture,
but when it bumps against Australia’s hybrid tariff
and Japanese-made goods, the keenness may lose a
bit of its edge.
* * * *
Dubbo: Sorry can’t advise you that way.
You’ll find the eo. reviewed in B. 14/11/’l2, and
another post-mortem is due shortly.


NIPPED IN THE BUD.
A Cold, Cough or Influenza can be nipped in the
hud bv a few doses of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
for Coughs and Colds. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s. Obtain-
able everywhere.*
Heerinsfs
Co
op
en
en
A
Est. 1818.
)
a m, «
aw*
FARMER’S
Hairdressing' Rooms
for Ladies
In T FARMER’S HAIRDRESSING ROOMS
for Ladies a speciality is made of Fringes and
transformations for Motoring.
Every Transformation is made on the
premises by an accomplished artist.
We specialise in Re-making, Renovating
and Altering Artificial Hair for our Patrons.
Our experts can Re-dress and Wave Transfor-
mations, Fringes, Puffs, etc., with a skill and
promptitude which will commend their work
to our customers.
Charges for Hairdressing are as follows:
Plain
With Marcel Waving
Marcel Waving ....
Cutting
Singeing
Shampooing
2/6
4/6
2/6
1/-
1 /-
2/6
Hairdressing appointments for Social Func-
tions may be made by ’phone or letter.
’Phone, City 72 (16 lines).
FARMER’S, SYDNEY
Pitt, Market & George Streets
BUCHANAN’S
Black ®. White
5^
CJI
Y;
~ •
m
A GRAND SPIRIT
“Black & White” is indeed a “grand spirit.’
Matured for years in Scotland before shipment
A WOMAN'S LETTER
Sydney, November 17, 1913.
My Dear Arini, — :
The Mayoral banquet to welcome home
G. H. Reid was held in the handsome vesti-
bule of the Town Hall, under the blaze
of the £506 chandelier. This huge cut-giass
ornament now emits electric lignt, though
it was bought in the wayback ’seventies to
shed gas rays on municipal revels. At 5.30
on the afternoon of the Reid dinner, the
invaluable Layton, who attends to all the
details of these civic junketings, was dis-
covered (as they say in the penny novelette)
in his shirt sleeves. He refused to be inter-
viewed without his coat, and merely waved
his hand (the hand that wasn’t adjusting
green ropes of smilax) towards the glittering
blobs of pendant light that winked through
amber glass. This experiment—the tinting
of the lower tier of the glass globules in the
chandelier —was an enormous success; it
shed the same soft glow on politicians of
every tint. Yet, as the night wore on the
watchful Layton probably eyed his handi-
work with some anxiety. Its color wasn’t
guaranteed to last more than a few hours,
and the good diner might wonder, late in
the evening, whether the cut-glass or-
nament was a chameleon, or a gas jet, or
a white decanter-stopper. Water lilies and
roses in baskets were set in front of Georeie
Reid’s patch of tablecloth. Upstairs, the
corridor windows were opened to allow Mrs.
High Commissioner and a few official dames
the priceless privilege of watching the Lion
feed.
Citizens (at one shilling a head for booked
seats) swarmed into the Town Hall on
November 14, to see G. H. Reid on the plat-
form, and hear his remarks on things in
general. _ Bunting took the cold chill off the
dead white walls. The thunder of the organ
drowned the public boot, which began to
rap its heel on the floor when 8 p.m came
and the entertainment was still waiting for
the leading gentleman and the official under-
studies. The latter stamped in soon after,
while the National Anthem bellowed from the
organ loft. Governor Strickland, looking
much better for his recent snack of country
life, had Mrs. George Reid on his arm.
“Georgie” mfhde a majestic attack on the
platform steps in company with Mayoress
Cocks, but he had to tread the narrow track
that ied to the front chairs alone. His
circumference is smaller than it used to be,
but it still requires quite a yard and a half
of space. Mayor Cocks, clad in the flowing
skirts of office, and ballasted with the muni-
cipal gold plate round his neck, had fair-
haired Thelma Reid at his elbow. Town
Clerk Nesbitt, who had been hovering round
the front to stage-manage the entry, was
swallowed up in a male procession of recep-
tion committee, which climbed into its plat-
form chairs with much shoe-creaking.
Archbishop Wright sank into a seat between
little Miss Reid and her mamma, who looks
about five minutes older than her only girl,
and has the same pale, canary-colored' locks.
General Finn and A.D.C. Campbell and the
Reid boys—nice-looking youths with their
front hair scraoed back off their foreheads
in the present style—bustled into their
places, while J. C. Watson clambered into
a choir seat behind. After a few prelimin-
ary crackers the feu de foie or G. H. Reid
sky-rockets went off to loud applause.
Mrs. Mayoress Cocks opened a new septic
block in the Royal Hospital for Women
the other afternoon. This building is more
or less presided over by the ancient Benevo-
lent Association of N.S.W., so President
Neville Mayman, of the latter agency for
good works, had the official 'right
to plunge into statistics. He dropped a
deficit of about £lO,OOO on the platform as
a cue to Prof. Andy Stuart to appeal
for More Cash. When the company
had recovered from the shock of finding that
still another needy hospital was shouting for
help it trailed off to fortify itself with tea
and buns. The stately MacCallum dame,
little Mrs. George Earp in red-and-blue
plumage, Mrs. Trefle under the brim of her
best hat, Mrs. Philip Morton (a surprise-
packet at a charity meeting) in a light,
summer frock that was up to the last
fashionable gasp in V front and floral
decorations, and Mrs. Neville Mayman in
gobelin blue, surrounded the official teapot.
H.M.A.S. Australia is to be tethered in
Spencer’s Gulf for a while. The cheerful
Patey hopes to snatch a holiday, in the
intervals of the gun-banging at targets
thereabouts, with friends who camp on the
banks of the Murray River. He had a
notion of strapping his barge to the rest of
his shore kit, and carrying it overland as
part of the baggage, but the barge is too
big a burden. Our Chief Mariner will,
therefore, paddle up the Murray per
tripper’s ordinary ferry-boat.
Archbishop Kelly, whose portrait by
Julian Ashton will be an ecclesiastical turn
in the forthcoming .Society of Artists’ Show,
was the model “sitter” every artist is look-
ing for. lie patiently stood up some of the
time, gave no trouble, and was as innocent
of vanity as a baby. After climbing the
aggressive little staircase that curls upward
to the studios like a steep corkscrew, the
eminent subject was as cheery as a school-
boy, and as biddable as a lamb. He gave a
full-length standing, and allowed the train
of his best Sunday dress to be pulled round
to the front in a beautiful tail, to please the
artist’s eye for color.
The Quinlan Symphony concert in the
Town Hall the other afternoon was another
proof of the magnificent material out of
which Conductors Eckhold and Voghera
carve so much fine music. Voghera, who
cultivates a decided waist to his frock coat,
waved the baton for Mendelssohn’s over-
ture to the “Isles of Fingal.” This per-
formance was possibly the finest work the
orchestra _ achieved in an afternoon stuffed
with musical plums. The swish of the tide
and the boom of the seventh wave (it is
the seventh wave that always makes such
a fuss about its arrival) in Fingal’s Cave
gave the fiddlers some wonderful moments.
Eckhold steered his team through a re-
markably fine attack on Beethoven’s Sym-
phony (C Minor). “Faster than a horse
could gallop,” as they say of the incoming
tide at St. Malo, swept the fiddles in
the final allegro movement. The soloists
were less sensational. Edna Thornton
stormed her way through a good fighting
edition of a Verdi aria (“The Masked
Ball”), Francis Costa gave the Sword Song
(Siegfried) a hearty hammering, and Per-
ceval Allen was handed a chair while the
orchestra had its preliminary innings in a
long excerpt from “Tristan and Isolde.”
John McCormack’s concert in the Town
Hall on Saturday night found the encore
fiends in their old haunts. The famous “II
Mio_ Tesoro,” from Mozart’s “II Don Giov-
anni,” was a gem of vocal art, with the
McCormack tenor gliding over the wonderful
legato _ passages like a streak of silk velvet.
John is going to lift up his voice in Salz-
burg, where Mozart first opened his eyes in
Jan., 1756, at the Mozart revival
there next year. May Huxley’s best contri-
bution to the programme was “Robin
Adair,” in which her mechanical trills are
not wanted. This was an encore number.
Donald Mcßeath fiddled with his usual fer-
vor, and dragged a double encore for Han-
del’s “Arioso” and Kreisler’s arrangement
of “La Precieuse.” Vincent O’Brien spent
the evening at the piano. Mrs. John McCor-
mack was in her accustomed front chair.
An opal, about the size of a pigeon’s egg,
set in diamonds, hung about her neck ; and
by that and the worshipful smile she turns
on her favorite tenor, I imagine John takes
every care of his pretty colleen. The able-
bodied McQuades arrived in sections, dark-
eyed Thelma rather pale after her recent
appendicitis argument. Mrs. Oliver Osborne
contributed a dash of rose color, a relief to
the garish Town Hall lights that blaze on
the powdered and unpowdered nose with no
respect of persons. The David Cohens (she
used to be Dorothy Isaacs, of Melbourne)
were also in the throng.
If, by chance, John McCormack has over-
looked any spare cash in this community,
the Butt-Rumford team will cheerfully col-
lect the same in December. They’re medi-
tating another farewell concert about
Christmas or sooner.
. At a meeting of the Seaside Camps Asso-
ciation, held in the muffled seclusion of the
Town Hall cloak-room, last week, the look-
out committee reported snags ahead. The
notion of bringing batches of women and
children from the Outback to the edge of
the blue Pacific is good ; and some day the
camp, which is to be pegged out near Narra-
been, should be self-supporting. But the
preliminary expenses are giving the hon.
treasurer a very sore head. For instance,
gas lighting: gas ring to each camp, general
cooking and, say, 200 lights, are estimated
at £ooo. _ After this comes sanitary drain-
age (insisted on by the local municipal
council), which begins at £7O. Where it
will end no one presumes to say. The War-
nngah Shire insists next that the bungalows
shall be of nothing less substantial than
wood, and each such humpy is likely to run
into £lOO apiece, at the lowest estimate.
Two kitchens and two dining-rooms for
general use are invoiced at £5OO. These are
a few facts which threaten to push the Sea-
side Gamp into the middle of next summer
or the beginning of next century. Honorary
Architect Stowe submitted this'fearsome list
of exes, to such incurable optimists as Mrs
Bob MacKinnon, organising sec. Grace Bur-
rows. Mrs. James Ashton, R. McMillan and
H. Russell Crane.
The Twilight Home committee, which has
been hiding a few pence in an old stocking
and beating the air for an extra half-crown
or so to go on with, is trying to accustom
itself to a sudden burst of affluence. When
non. sec. Mrs. Innes Noad informed a meet-
mg the other day that Mrs. Alan Carroll
had offered £lOOO towards the fund, the com-
mittee nearly fainted dead away on the floor.
Mrs. Carroll is the widow of the doctor who
founded the Child Study Association—an
institution in which for various reasons she
is no longer able to take her old interest.
I rob aid v it is on this account she is handing
the £lOOO to the hostel for old ladies, as a
memorial of her husband’s battles for suffer-
ing humanity.
In the intervals between taking rest and
refreshment and getting into its best clothes
for the opera, a section of this community
spent its hours last week in committee. The
most notable was the meeting to arrange a
public recognition of the services of Concert-
Manager H. N. Southwell in the cause of
charity. This congregation made a new
record. Instead of interminable speeches
and dreary iteration of a great desire to
collect cash, chairman J. D. Fitzgerald (in
place of Mayor Cocks, who was inadvert-
ently late) rushed the meeting through at
express speed. With a live wire in the
chair, and a crowd of “Southie’s” friends
bubbling over with enthusiasm, over £BO
was collected before you could say, “The
ayes have it.” John Lemmone and Claude
McKay are the hon. secs. The silvery
thatch of George Portus will also be fore-
most in the fray. Mrs. J. L. Trefle was
pounced on as whipper-in of a woman’s
committee, with Mrs. G. L. Goodman as
hon. treasurer. Ernest Broughton handed
in his sympathy and a cheque. Mavor
Cocks flung his weight (about 16 stone)
behind the golden tide. George Titheradge
sent a line to ask the committee to com-
mand his services. The popularity of H. N.
Southwell, who has been laid aside by seri-
ous illness for the last six months, may be
gauged by the fact that every person in the
room looked as pleased to be able to do
something for the stricken favorite as if he
or she had just been given a suburban villa,
with a water-frontage and no taxes.
The rich Miss Ducker, whose father left
her a mere £70,000 a week or so ago, has a
big nest-egg of her own to add to the par-
ental legacy ; so her income is likely to tip
the scales at about £7OOO a year. She is a
charming woman with a heap of girl friends
who love the lady partly for herself, and
partly for her irreproachable taste in
motors. The Edgecliff heiress used to petrol
these damsels about with an unalterable
desire, quite unusual in the motored class,
to give them as good a time as she could.
They will, in consequence, wave very damp
handkerchiefs over her departure in Feb-
ruary. Miss Ducker goes off on a world
tour with Architect Tom Cosh and his
wife, via Japan and China. Cards will be
left with Cousin Jonathan and John Bull
during the scamper. The furniture, etc., of
the Ducker home, Winbah, will be sold to
avoid the perilous adventure which opens
with the notice: “Furnished house to let.”
“Penny Post” Heaton and his wife and
daughter have left this port for the Wet
Country in the Medina.
Dr. Scot Skirving, who once wrote a novel
with the alluring title “Love and Longi-
tude,” has joined the gyeat majority. He
has had an operation for appendicitis, the
most fashionable complaint of the century.
The mighty surgeon MacCormick was in
charge of the knife, and the patient is mak-
ing the usual recovery.
Mrs. Charles Todd, of these parts, leaves
here on December 31, for a scamper to Eng-
land, via Java, Singapore and other coffee-
colored settlements. She is bound for Bir-
mingham. Near that city of tall factories
there’s a famous Training College, where
one Professor Hemming, who is the lady’s
father, has made a record as a stayer. At
the age of 75, this veteran art-teacher
recently retired after 47 years’ service. Prof.
Hemming kept in touch with modern art in
all its wayward moods, and stood in line with
men who were young enough to be his grand-
sons, until _ rheumatism forced him to an
easy chair in the chimney corner.
Architect Griffin, the Chicago man who is
going to lay out the Federal corpse at
Canberra, left for ’Frisco in the Ven-
tura. He is bustling home to pack up his
wife and other valuables and bring them
back to Australia for the term —three years
—of his laying-out contract with' the
Government. Before going, he sent a fare-
well greeting to Miss Rose Scott, with whom
he had a Friday evening corroboree during
his dash through this town.
Artist E. W. Christmas, who played
around the Moonta copper mines of S. Aus.
when he was a boy, and mostly wandered in
Maoriland when he was learning how to
paint, sends a line from London. He has
once more camped on the shores of the
Thames after breathless adventures in South
America, and is showing the results of his
climb over the Andes and adjacent scenery
at various British exhibitions.
Mr. B. F. A. Fawcett, one of Colombo’s
best-looking young tea-men, is meditating a
descent —possibly a permanent one—on
these shores, early in 1914. With one or
nossibly two exceptions, this athletic Apollo
is reckoned the most dashing all-round
cricketer in Ceylon.
Surveyor Cowley, who passed out at
Petersham in his 89th year on November 11,
was one of this State’s strongest links- with
the past. He saw the bush grow into towns,
and watched towns stretch out into cities.
The city of it is that these fine old pilgrims
rarely leave any written records of their
long journey.
The Charles Marsdens are amongst the
homing pigeons who fly this wav early in
the New Year. Mrs. Marsden hasn’t found
the British rainfall good for her health and
son Cecil is in the same plight. The Ene
hsh medicoes order large doses of Australian
sunshine, and the boy may swallow this
Physic on a Queensland station.
The Percy Hunters will leave for the other
side sooner or later—probably sooner. Mrs
1 ercy has _ been thoroughly overhauled and
renovated in a private hospital, after lone
standing bouts of asthma, and is pacing ih P
road to Better Health.
Singer Dolores is packing up her music for
these shores. She leaves the F o g in January
and steps ashore in Sydney before Easter’
Boyd Wells will be at his place before the
piano in this tour.
Singer Mary Conly is to warble here at
the Phil, concert on November 27.
Clever Irene Brown, of the Julius Knight
‘ Mil est°nes” Co., tripped into the stalls of
Her Majesty’s one evening in the middle of
last week. Her intelligent forehead was
buried under a decorative mat of auburn
locks in the most fashionable shade, and the
film of emerald green gossamer that floated
round her shoulders was the envy of every
Titian-haired woman on the premises. After
a look-in at the opera and other sights in
this towm, the Knight team packed up its
grease paints for Brisbane.
The departure of the “Milestones” Co
from strike-infested Maoriland was almost
tragic. Lumpers and porters were all taking
a holiday, and the fearful spectacle was wit-
nessed of Julius Superbus Knight humping
his own bluey.
Soprano Mabel Batchelor has been en-
gaged as Principal Girl for the Adelphi ver-
sion of “Aladdin,” and Carrie Moore is to
appear as Principal Boy. The George
Willoughby co. opens here with the glittering
show on Boxing Night. The “book” is by
young A. E. Martimwho made the Gadfly
buzz very briskly during its brief life in
Adelaide.
Zeni, the stormy 6ft. 4in. Samson of the
Melba Opera Co., is writing to some of his
friends here re his proposed return in 1914.
Zeni is the kind of telephone subscriber who
would shake up that nodding service; he is
the hasty-tempered person who, after a brief
argument with the Sydney “Central/’ is
alleged to have torn an instrument out by
the socket and hurled it from him, as he
hurled the walls of the temple, a crumbling
ruin.
The wedding of the Bathurst damsel,
Marjorie McPhillamy, and ex-aide Captain
Scarlett, occurred with a flourish on Octo-
ber 15 at Datchet, in Buckinghamshire. The
bridal frock and court train were concealed
under lace of great age and much beauty.
Two maidens —the bride’s sister Alison and
her cousin, Valerie Jay—attended her. They
were in old-rose and black velvet, with a
crown of frilly millinery. Assistance was
rendered to the benedict by two brother-
ornaments of the army, and a reverend
cousin of the Bathurst girl attended to the
prayer-book part of the ceremony.
Mr. and Mrs. W. J. Brooke, who have 25
years’ domicile in Sydney to their credit, are
going off to Ceylon for a holiday trip.
W. D. Bunnell, the forerunner of the com-
ing American baseball team, is taking his
bearings of this city. The team is a mighty
Chicago combination of “Giants” and “White
Sox.” An informative acquaintance de-
scribes baseball as the fir~t cousin of cricket
and the half-brother of rounders. As the
Chicago men play it the game is like a
N.S.W. Parliamentary row. when the leader
of the Opposition is hurling his candid
opinion at the Government. The Chicago
men work so hard with their tongues that
floods of language are poured down the backs
of their adversaries. Still, baseball has some
advantages over Amurkan football, which
needs a cemetery within easy driving dis-
tance of the goals.
Ward. Lock and Co. send along “The
Australasian Cookery Book.” It is pro-
fusely illustrated; and, as the recipes are
in alphabetical order, the young bride who
is searching for the right way to disguise
the chops of yestereve can put her finger on
the place while the gravy browns. On the
other hand, the young husband who culti-
vates a profound ignorance of carving, should
avoid the new treasure, for the anatomy of
fowl and beast is therein laid bare in dia-
grams which leave him no excuse whatever.
The osprey, which has only made a timid
appearance at the opera on first nights, has
a rival in the shape of butterfly bows. The
latter can be heartily commended to any
woman who wants to block the view of the
person who sits (and swears) behind her.
The larger the better, of course.
The gallery of Her Majesty’s, during the
opera season, has occasionally sheltered Phil-
istines who have wanted to accompany the
orchestra w r ith remarks about summer sales.
The other night it had a different experience.
The second act of “The Flying Dutchman”
was hurrying to a close, when an annoyed
galleryite suddenly rose to his feet and
stamped towards the exit. Before going he
Anna: his scorn at the Wagner maniacs, who
received it with clenched teeth. “If that's
your ‘Tales of Hoffnumr,’ ” said he, “you can
jolly well keep it; but I'd like to have my
money back.”
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


hfd
the: 3j-4 H.P.
new HUDSON
(with tine 3-Speed Gear
and Free Engine Clutch)
Opens up an Entirely NEW
FIELD for Pleasure Touring
th<Tmer™ e pedal-cycl?ng. C1 “ t(!h mak ' S “ 8 “W to
This Geai is a new idea a marvellously simple and effective mechanism.
with 1 nerfe'cf h ennfilt'Jn™ the worst hills or most crowded traffic
the (dim lo ' v S ea r ailows safe starting in close traffic
general nurnosn<f steepest of hills. The middle gear is useful for
lea? prevems plam sadlng at a low cost of Petrol. The high
weriT. P t %! og of engme and consequent overheating and excessive
The Free Engine “'Clutch of the MULTIPLE DISC CLUTCH TYPE makes
wher g e e ft e ? s o,lt o? | Ue f nt * Xt is self-contained in the back hub!
risk 61 S ° Ut ° f th Way ° f dust ’ water and m ud, and free from accident
be excelled! NeW Hudson has the lowered saddle that for comfort cannot
Slnsmilsfon^s h IfTPFCT t^ orOUghly - teste ?, and , is fnll y guaranteed. The
Splest Shod <,l ' Blne P " lley Bel * dr,ver - the fastcst and
ORDER NOW FOR CHRISTMAS.
nnLfnl 1 X iTv?^1 SOn n a n fast a \ we i, receive them - Some new models
pening. If ,\ou live handy enough, call and see the stock in our salerooms.
N an ?> o o t ft CaU ’ we Wl i ! send our ful] y illustrated and descriptive Cata-
logue, JNo. Edo. on request.
Bennett 8 Barkell Limited
Agents for TRIUMPH, RUDGE-WHITWORTH and NEW HUDSON CYCLES,
Manufacturers of the B. & B. Motorcycles,
124-132 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
VICE-REGAL
h
BY APPOINTMENT.
JEWELLERS
Christmas Presents
Write for Christmas Booklet
sent Post Free on request.
Selections of newest goods sent
to the Country on approval.
■b
R 8
VV* 4 > 4 '
»\*
Oxs*
&
\*‘ tv
St
usi
iMwv
sw
asKS
MR
B*S&
SSiMSs!
®K©s
■•;
.fvti
ss
■:*s
♦V>
fit*
fViVVtt s^
lllgK*
isg
#3l
IS
HI
StvH
IStvti'
TVfV
* '-.*
mm
mg
S&SSsa
jl&s9
&w?S
raKcSsSi
wfyi
v»*
seSS
«s
ss
©5B v v
&kk
ggs
•fl.
0S«
B*S
3S
i<S
;v?
ss
s§
S>is
«ss
s>
S&
SSX
»>S*v
$&§§&&&
»'*»!»
Q 'j
Gold Chain Bag,
in Case, Size 4f inches x 4$ inches,
£35.
We have a fine selection of Gold Chain Bags from £lO to £l2O.
Also an extensive range in Silver from £4 to £2O.
Hardy Brothers Limited,
VICE-REGAL JEWELLERS,
13 Hunter St., Sydney; 118 Queen St., Brisbane.
LONDON OFFICE: 17 & 18 WEST SMITHFIELD, E.C.
'K
>s
rvr‘
-8
N.S.W. Bookstall Series.
1,000,000 COPIES SOLD OF THE POPULAR
“BOOKSTALL” SERIES of AUSTRALIAN NOVELS
Written, Illustrated and Printed in Australia.
Price, One Shilling Each ; Post Free, 11.
Wolaroi’s Cup,
By AMBROSE PRATT (Author of “ Three Years with
Thunderbolt,” “ The Oiolden Kangaroo,” etc.).
Price, \/m 5 Post Free 1/1. With illustrations by Lionel Lindsay.
T, he Melbourne Cup annually causes more excitement in Australia than any other sporting event,
? „ r : i ’ l ' att , has endeavored to show us a Melbourne Cup Winner in the making. “Inside know-
ieage is the keynote of the story, and many of those who are in the habit of “putting a bit on”
will get their eyes opened as to the methods adopted by owners, trainers and jockeys alike,
o h °, me „ chapters devoted to the taming of an outlaw are amongst the best in the book, and show
a wonderful insught regarding the varying temperaments of the equine race. The description of this
particular Melbourne Cup race is realistic to a degree, and sure to be enjoyed by those who love a
run for their money.
“Bully Hayes: Buccaneer”
and Other Stories.
By LOUIS BECKE.
(Author of “ My Native Wife,” “ By Reef and Palm,” etc., etc.)
Price, 1/-; Post Free, 1/1. With Portrait, and Illustrations by Norman Lindsay.
, . Th ®. name ° { Louis Becke is sufficient guarantee that the writing is strong, dramatic and
interesting, and no man knew “the Islands” better, or had more thrilling experiences there, than
> : , lr W^ l ; knoW "v, auth °'-'. J Waving served under the famous “Bully Hayes,” his personal anecdotes
anent that worthy are doubly valuable, whilst his other stories are amongst the best, as they are
the last . that Becke ever penned. The Author’s photograph, specially prepared for this work, is
characteristic and lifelike, and is a memento well worth possessing.
A racy sketch of the author’s chequered career forms a fitting 0 introduction to his final effort.
»Sodg»er Sandy’s Bairn.
By A. BATHGATE.
With six illustrations by Harry Julius,
and a cover ceslgn by Percy Spence.
Mr. Bathgate is new to Australian readers, which is unfortunate for both author and readers,
for Sodger Sandy s Bairn displays such an amount of ability that it seems a pitv he did not ven-
ture sooner. He gives us some splendid pen-pictures of Scotch and colonial types, describes the
early gold rushes and their attendant excitement with wonderful vividity, charms us with his insight
into human nature, possesses a command of the Scotch vernacular that reminds one of J M Barrie
or lan Maclaren, whilst his fund of pawky humor is rare and refreshing. Scotch people especially
will welcome this book and want to know more of its author. ,
SELECTION STORIES.
By STEELE RUDD.
ON OUR SELECTION.
OUR NEAV SELECTION.
STOCKING OUR SELECTION.
ON AN AUSTRALIAN FARM.
THE DASHWOODS.
THE POOR PARSON.
DUNCAN McCLURE.
SANDY’S SELECTION.
BACK AT OUR SELECTION.
FROM SELECTION TO CITY.
FOR LIFE.
DAD IN POLITICS.
THE BOOK OF DAN.
By SUMNER LOCKE.
MUM DAWSON—BOSS. THE DAWSONS’ UNCLE GEORGE.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD..
476 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. And All Branches and Booksellers.
The Foot-power Grinder
with Steam-power Results.
There are hundreds of uses on Farms, and in
Blacksmiths’ and other Workshops for an inex-
pensive machine like the “Buffalo” Treadle
Grinder. It sharpens tools, knives—anything—
ten times faster and better than a grindstone, and
doesn’t, draw the temper. Needs no turning, either;
one man does all the work.
It is constructed of the best materials, and the
mechanism is perfect. It is chain driven —no belts
to slip or wear out. A suitable and substantial
tool rest is furnished. It is easy for a man to
keep it spinning at 3000 revolutions per minute.
Easily set up—just screw it to floor and post or
wall in any convenient place in shop, barn or tool
house.
The “Buffalo” is the most compact and efficient
grinding machine for the low price of
a
Is Your Anvil Insured?
There are two kinds
of Anvils.
The first is the
“All Steel.” The
rest are common or garden.
“All Steel” Anvils are forged
wholly in one piece, of Finest
Swedish Steel, the face being then
hardened by a patent process.
Other anvils have the face, horn
and _ tail welded separately, and
therein lies the trouble. These separ-
ate narts crack, sink and fall off.
“All Steel” Anvils are guaranteed
against coming to pieces—you are
insured against loss.
A Queensland Blacksmith of 40
years’ standing wrote us recently, on
receiving his : “It is a better bargain
than I anticipated; also, it is the
best anvil 1 have ever seen.” Study
the prices :—•
4cwt. to 2211 b., 32/- per cwt.; 2201 b.
to 1001 b., 34/- cwt. ; 1051 b. to 891 b.,
36/- cwt; 881 b. to 671 b., 5%d. lb.;
601 b. to 221 b., 6d. lb.; 221 b. to 141 b.,
Bd. lb.
jjyn&p
Book for
Blacksmiths
Gratis and
Post Free.
A 4S-page book, filled with illustra-
tions, information and prices of the
latest Tools and Machines, for Black-
smiths and Coachbuilders. Write for
a copy.
MS-PKersori§)
Proprietary Ltd.
Tool & Machinery Merchants,”
554-66 & 582-88 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
ESTABLISHED S 3 YEARS.


Men’s Quality Footwear
at Farmer’s.
Farmer’s Footwear for Men combines the all-
important factors of style, comfort and reliability.
The Boot featured is an ideal example of easy
fitting- and good appearance. It is a patent Coltskin
Goloshed Lace Boot, made of summer-weight
materials. It has light, flexible sole, dull kid leg
and drill lining; obtainable in all sizes and half-
sizes.
In All Patent Derby and Oxford Styles.
Price 351-
We Pay the Carriage Throughout Australia.
FARMER’S, SYDNEY.
PITT, MARKET & GEORGE STREETS.
351-
fdh
"The Fashion in Fragrance! ”
Parftin)
Lilas
The essence of the Lilac Bloom I
All the rage in Europe, and now
the favorite and fashionable Per-
fume in Australia. Manufactured
by Gustav Lohse, Berlin. The
Leading Perfumieres in the World.
Obtainable of all Stores throughout Australia
Sole Agbnt—
A. 0. SCHMIDT, William St.
MELBOURNE.
The
Oriental
Hotel,
MELBOURNE.
AUSTRALIA’S MODERN HOTEL.
Now open for the reception of Quests.
The most Hygienic Conditions and Refined
Elegance are distinctive features.
Any size suite of compartments.
Tariff from 15/- per day.
ERNEST McINTOSH, General Manager.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, November 17, 1913.
My Dear Yarrie, —
The Denman lady invited the National
Council of Women to a party at Federal
Government House the other Wednesday,
then developed a feverish cold, and was un-
able to receive her guests. Cady Barttelot
and Mrs. Pearson filled the breach,
with the assistance of the august Madden
dame, who joined the reception group. Cham-
berlain Nevill hovered over all, like a well-
tailored guardian angel, and kept up an
endless murmur of apology very soothing to
listen to. Miss Knatchbull-Hugessen gave
her moral support. The National Council
was indulging in its eleventh annual con-
giess, and some International Council identi-
ties were present. A great dock of these
serious women fluttered in the drawing-
rooms, and the plumage looked distressingly
expensive. The talk didn’t seem as good as
the hats ; but that was only to be expected.
Suitable varieties of food were left, about
in tea-meeting style on small tables in the
ballroom, and the chatterers sat down and
attacked it with great skill and energy, while
the house party moved about from point to
point, and urged them on. It was quite
unnecessary; but, then, so was the whole
function. Mrs. Pearson was a vision (a
vision is quite different from a sight) in
ivory lace with a fat sapphire-blue velvet
:sash. The Barttelot dame wore a blue sash
on a white muslin dress, perhaps in memory
■of childhood’s happier picnics. Miss Knatch-
bull-H. put a little lilac coat over her white
chiffon. The Madden dame wore a serious
;air and a brown dress.
Just as the gossip started to sizzle, the
thunder boomed wrathfully, as if Providence
was annoyed about it, and large hailstones
ipelted down from Heaven. The G.-G. had
•escaped the squaw party by going off to
Kooyong for polo practice. But the hail
was unkind, and drove him back just in
ttime to say good-bye to his wife’s visitors.
He blew in breezily, with an attendant
group of his Gentleman Help playmates,
and assisted in bowing the women out like a
polite boy. The big. purple an,d gold foot-
men with the white silk limbs i(I keep
these menials out) are getting quite used to
the invasions of congress women, female
leaguers and so on. They have been made
so free of the house lately that they run in
and out almost unasked.
While the company tea-ed the Women’s
Orchestra accompanied the conversation with
sweet airs. The girl musicians wore big
black hats and sashes round the white
frocks, and generally looked like heroines
out of the latest society novel.
The captain and officers of the Encounter
duly gave their dance on the Monday fol-
lowing race-week. The poor Society squaws
complained that they were tired to their
very bones; but, notwithstanding that, the
young ones danced all night. I also wish to
remark that the same brisk matrons carried
off the partners from their rightful owners,
i.e., the flappers and young girls who are
just full of romance. There were unattached
girls everywhere —most of them pretty
enough to eat; but they could not get dances.
“The girls all turn up — of course!” was the
complaint lodged by one weary Nelson. .The
smart young matron who chaffs and isn’t
stampeded by a little sailorly daring is in-
variably the target of these young men when
programmes are being made up. The poor
flappers who are full of Charles Garvice
notions and polite blither about theatres are
left to languish alone or in bunches, exactly
as preferred.
One or two of these naval lads want kick-
ing—not mere slapping, mind you, but good
hard kicking. The worst example stealthily
mounted the gangway and whispered in a
young dame’s ear, “Is the sainted Agatha
aboard?” “She is!” chuckled the bare
shoulders. “O Lord!” groaned the brass
bounder. “I met her at one port, and she has
chased me right round the continent!” Talk
about she-cats after that! Fancy giving the
poor girl into the hands of the enemy in
that way ! And probably the little boy. was
just spiteful because she had flirted with a
rival buttons.
Ordinary civilian youths with company
manners said “Dash it!” next day, when
they heard that the girls were sitting three
deep, the prettiest just hungry to book three
waltzes with anybody at all. The plain-
clothes lads had refused the dance in large
numbers, because they anticipated being
cold-shouldered by the girls in favor of the
infernal uniforms. Nesta Fitzgerald wore a
gold-rimmed eyeglass; but even that quaint
and piquant touch did not draw. Pretty
Sheila Chisholm, from Sydney, wore black
chiffon and put cherry blossom round her
hair and cherry bobs in her ears. Mrs.
Leslie Stuart danced every dance. Her
cherry-colored ninon had a gold buckle aft
above the waist and a wisp of tulle for’ard ;
and a sleek mermaid train was steered clev-
erly through the raging seas of feet. A few
staid dowagers settled themselves heavily
amongst cushions under an awning in the
bows; but, as frequently happens at dances,
the majority of the guests were young.
They found the sitting-out places very cosy,
for a sailor can do a lot with a 6-inch gun,
a palm and a couple of flags. Fortunately
the night was starry and soft and the moon
on duty. Supper, being a warship spread,
was a splendid interlude in a rather patchy
evening. If the poor flappers couldn’t use
their toes, they at least got some exercise for
their jaws.
A beautiful example of parental affection
was glimpsed at one of the recent race meet-
ings. During the vice-regal procession to-
wards luncheon, young Thomas Denman, the
small boy of the party, seemed to be in
danger of being overwhelmed by the crowd.
Without an instant’s hesitation, his illus-
trious pa caught him up, in much the same
manner as the common laboring person
seizes his young, and bore him, with a do-or-
die air, in the direction of the food. An
agitated male Help fluttered distractedly
after him, waving white and helpless hands
above the heads of the encompassing crowd.
“Ai’ll take him, sir!” he wailed. But
the brave father never faltered or glanced
behind. Panting and perspiring from the
unusual exercise, he carried his infant
through the crush, while the following Help
wrung his hands and exhibited other suit-
able symptoms of intolerable mental an-
guish. Some outsiders who were mechani-
cally elbowing for room and didn’t know
who was who or why, thought the sensation
was over a case of sudden illness.
Little Tommy Denman is trying to be a
good sport, just like Dad. On Cup Day the
youngster sat in the official crate with a
race-card in his little fat fingers, and
gravely recorded the scratchings for each
race. Then he would sit back, push his hat to
the back of his head and thoughtfully
a stub of pencil. He has the two prominent
front teeth of the Best English families.
Mrs. Dyce Murphy collected all the Cup
peers and peeresses for her dance. The
Murphy horse, Andelosia, had followed up
its Guineas win by capturing the Linlithgow
Stakes; consequently, the household felt
blissful and in the right mood to tango.
They knew how to do it, too. For weeks
beforehand the socially saved had been prac-
tising the thing in small parties in the
Woorigoleen ballroom. The Barttelot pair
attended for Federal Government House,
and a good contingent of officers from the
Melbourne and Encounter rolled along in
their official fancy costume. The Governor
of the Falkland Islands and Mrs. Allerdyce
were specially trapped for the function,
which was attended by Millers, Curries,
McKinnons, Paynes and the other people
whose names are signboards of suburban
history. The usual dreams of gowns were
carefully extracted from heavy fur _ wraps,
for the November night was astonishingly
cold and big fires roared opulently in the re-
ception rooms. It takes more than a
modern evening gown to keep you from
pneumonia on a cold night. You dare not
take off furs until you are next a furnace or
ready for the violent exercise of the ball-
room.
The Dyce Murphys are packing up the
race winnings, and after collecting their
daughters will make tracks for England and
the Continent. I understand that Europe is
to be shaken-up till its teeth rattle.
The Norton Grimwades are coming in
quietly with their dance on November 26,
when the splendid race-time jigs and whirls
will be fading memories. By following at a
respectful distance you avoid the com-
parison that is odious. Still the Grimwade
revel will have a high polish.
Shovers generally were wild at the L. C.
Mackinnon garden frivol happening on the
Sabbath, which, of course, blue-pencilled the
weekly day of rest. The young of the Mac-
kinnon family will wait to see the closing
down of 1913 in Scotland before starting
home for Toorak. Australia meanwhile will
have to bear up as best it can.
The marriage of the Harry Ricketsons’
daughter Jean to Harry Ramsay, fixed for
December 4, will be a subdued affair, owipg
to the death of an uncle. The bride-elect is
fresh from an interval of foreign travel.
On October 14 fashionable St. George’s, in
Hanover Square, London, was engaged by
the elder Malcolm McEacharn daughter Eila
for an appointment with Mr. Connop Guth-
rie, of Valparaiso. The bride in brocade and
rose-point was handed for keeps to her bene-
dict by brother Neil McEacharn, and six
maidens saw it done. They wore tunic
frocks of white satin and champagne-tinted
chiffon, and carried baskets of lilies-of-the-
valley and white heather. At the Maddox
Galleries near by there were the requisite
eatables, diamond tiaras, breakfast cruets,
bread forks and cheques.
Mrs. Davidson, a Repertory Theatre en-
thusiast, turned her house inside out on
Saturday of last week, and indulged in pri-
vate theatricals for the financial good of the
Gregan McMahon enterprise. The show
consisted of three one-act plays in the big
billiard room and a rose-decorated supper.
Vere Donovan, daughter of the J. A.
Donovans, of St. Kilda. has enslaved a gold-
laced naval man, R. C. Negus, of our own
Navy. The wedding is programmed for
November 26, at the Carmelite Church.
Arthur Shirley, an actor who is at present
engaged at the Princess’s, is cast. for the
comedy of Matrimony. The leading lady
is Helens Newcomb-llall, a Maoriland girl
with a fine soprano voice.
Dr. Reginald Weigall, president of the
Automobile Club, is superintending the
club’s usual yearly treat to the orphanages.
The outing is listed for this Saturday,
November 22. Youngsters from a hundred
or feo institutions are to be taken for a spin
into the country, and there given a picnic
and presents. The doctor has sent out an
imploring appeal for the loan of another
fleet of cars. Though the trips of many
orphans are safely booked up, there are still
crowds of eager passengers for whom there
is no room. The perfect bliss these kiddies
get out of a mere motor-ride is worth watch-
ing, and anyone with an idle machine may
get some good fun by merely being charit-
able. Nurses and other kindly volunteers
are ready and willing to do the necessary
“looking after,” and the charges are scrubbed
and starched much more carefully than the
average tram passenger.
Apparently Mr. McCrae, of Dalgety’s,
found the elixir of youth during his trip to
England. He looks only a day or so older
than he did when he first propelled an office
pen.
Dr. O’Brien and family are back here in
search of sunshine, after doing seven years
in Maoriland. Daughter Irene has acquired
a voice, and, though it does not hurt her at
present, she is shortly taking it to London.
She will there be under the care and cocked-
hat of Uncle Long, who is a British general
and sleeps regularly in the War Office. Mrs.
Long is a beauty and a suffragette; the
cook is a red-haired Presbyterian ; and the
chauffeur has an uncle a printer, and is
learning German. That’s all the information
I have been able to get hold of so far.
Captain Hardy, an Australian army man
who used to be a Melbourne fixture, drifted
into town in time to see the Cup. He has
been in Bananaland and Westralia looking
after defence matters, and is now off to
Adelaide.
Mrs. “Rubber” Edwards bounced into
Melbourne on Monday, after an exciting
roll round the world. She rolled very care-
fully through America and Germany, and
haa a trip aloft in a Zeppelin. It didn’t ex-
plode that trip, otherwise Mrs. “Rubber”
would still be bouncing between the conti-
nent of Europe and the blue floor of Heaven,
hitting Europe once every 24 hours.
A Melbourne surgeon recently operated
on a well-known business man for appen-
dicitis. The patient reckoned that his
trouble was brought on by a long stay in
the witness-box. “I owe it to that con-
founded barrister,” he grumbled. “Don’t I
wish I had him here, carved and bandaged
like I am!” That night the surgeon
operated on another man for appendicitis.
The second case was laid tenderly in the
next bed. When the pair were well enough
to compare notes, the first patient dis-
covered that his curse had gone home to
roost —his neighbor was the barrister.
Rose Alba is the gentle alias of a little
lady who in the intervals of assisting a
parson-husband in Melbourne occasionally
raises a nice soprano in Charity’s aid. Some
mission movement induced the songstress to
reveal the dimensions of her gift on a recent
evening, and before the entertainment had
expired she had to take shelter from the
bouquets. In fact, she was such a success
that people are now advising her to take
her warble to a bigger market. Miss Alba,
who is beset with good looks, bears an em-
barrassing resemblance to Gaby Deslys, the
hussy who flirted with ex-King Manoel when
that juvenile’s kingdom was bursting.
The daughters of our Best and Attempted
Best families dearly love to patronise. At
Flemington recently, a beaming lass swooped
on a party of theatricals and gushingly in-
vited the star of the bunch to “come along
and be introduced to mai brother.” The
star gave her a brilliant smile of thanks
and went quietly. But, when she returned
alone, it was with quite a different expres-
sion. “Awful nuisance these people—-but
one must be polite to them !”
Ernest Goll, who specialises in Chopin
and hair, is to give another concert next
month. The Toorakians and others who
have to be seen where this sort of thing is
going on, are buying bunches of tickets and
wondering what clothes they will listen in.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
The social feature of the week has been a succes-
sion of ■“opening” ceremonies-—mostly it is teas, not
seldom deaths. These social events come not in
single spies, but by the dozen, somehow. Thus on
Saturday Minister Pascoe opened the garden fete in
aid of the Home for Incurables. Rather a grim
object to be festive about, but the company managed
it all right. By the way, it is a pity that the name
of the place cannot be altered. An invalid is not
stimulated much in his last great fight with the
Universal Enemy by hearing the referee give the
decision against him before the battle has started, so
to speak.
Talking of garden parties, Mrs. Harry Bickford
gave one at Mount Lofty on this same Saturday.
The Bickfords’ garden is one of those that don’t
need a party to render it attractive. Amongst the
nourishment-seekers identified, in addition to a horde
of Bickfords, were Mrs. Pendleton, Mrs. James Hen-
derson, Mrs. Peter Wood and her daughter, Mrs.
A. J. Barker, Mrs. T. Duffield and Mrs. W. Hender-
son.
The new building for the Franklin-street Free
Kindergarten was opened by Lady Bosanquet on
Thursday. The proceedings were uneventful—in fact
one might almost say tame. What Thinker was it
who remarked that two things were inevitably dull
complete virtue and the opening of a kindergarten?
Miss Martha Bruggeinan gave a farewell recital at
the Town Hall before leaving us for Sydney and the
perils of matrimony. Miss Kathleen Holder, Miss
Dorothy Mcßride, Mr. Eugene Alderman, Mr
Alexander Cooper and Mr. Pearce abetted her.
The Michael Hawkers and their children left for
England by the Otranto. However, these national
tragedies have a way of balancing themselves. Our
howls of grief had hardly died down when they were
changed to sharp yelps of joy. The village look-out
had discerned the ship that contained Mrs. R. I).
Ryder and her two small children. The local
tenantry hadn’t time to turn out —in any case their
Union rules precluded any action of the sort, except, of
course, at overtime rates —as the home-comers left at
once for Angaston. They will stay at Lindsav
Park till the middle of January.
The S.P.C.A. got a horse-driver fined on Tuesday
for cruelty (loud cheers) ; and what was more, his
“passenger” also had to part up £1 for being an
accessory to the act. This is designed to render the
casual citizen chary about helping to overload
’buses. Also, it is calculated to make him forsake
cabs which drag wearily behind half-starved,
shoulder-galled and worn-out horses.
The exhibition of the Federal Society of Arts was
opened by the Governor at the Institute Rooms,
North Terrace, on Friday evening. Hans Hevsen’s
work was praised (the discernment of these Gover-
nors 1) ; also a portrait of Dorothea Spinney by Violet
Teague.
(Continued on page 3^.)
Billmarion Edwards, the Victorian girl
who roamed around in male attire and pre-
ferred man’s jobs to woman’s, has fallen on
evil days. A broken limb lately came
“Bill’s” way, and friends have been promot-
ing a picture-show night to help pay doc-
tor’s and nursing fees. She runs to fat
nowadays, and isn't the dapper young fellow
she was when she loomed large in the public
eye.
Even Jokook has been overcome by the
ridiculousness of his bluff that the Labor
opposition in the Representatives alone pre-
vents him going to the country. The other
night lie made this belated admission:—
All I have to say is that the Government will go
td the country when it thinks it ought to go, or, on
the other hand, when iny honorable friends opposite
acquire the ability to drive it there.
Truth is mighty and will prevail despite its
illtreatment by the Kookoos.
Another of the old holders of the Maori-
land Cross heard Bugler Gabriel call
last week. He was Color-Sergeant Richard
Shepherd, formerly of the 6Sth Foot, and he
earned the Cross for conspicuous bravery at
.Otauto on March 13, 1869, when our late
cannibal brother Titokowaru got what he
had been calling tenders for. Shepherd was
again specially mentioned for gallantry
against Te Kooti, when that choice savage
was putting up his last stand. The old
soldier was 75 when Time discharged him.
Last week a Sydney gentleman engaged in
the meat trade was fortunate enough to run
into an inspector who had both eyes open and
a nose that was in working order. Later on
the meat merchant appeared at court, and
the inspector described the condition of his
cart. The outside was coated with
mud, which had dried hard; the inside
was freely bespattered with crushed brains
and other decaying matter; and a boy who
was sitting beside the driver had his feet
reposing on a consignment of kidneys. In
reply the meat-merchant simplified the mat-
ter by pleading guilty, but urged in extenua-
tion that (1) he was having a new cart
built, and (2) a brace of inspectors had pre-
viously bailed him up the same morning and
neither had taken any exception to the condi-
tion of the cart. The fine was £2 with 6s.
costs, and there the matter ended. In a
civilised country something else would have
happened. First, the malefactor would have
had a black mark put on his license, and
two more marks would have barred him from
the foodstuffs business for ever; and then an
anxious search would have been made for
the other two alleged inspectors, with a view
to ascertaining if they had any qualms about
collecting their salaries.
“Hamer” : The Millions Club of Sydney,
with an effort to make itself a useful insti-
tution, has come forward with a proposal
for supplying Mary Ann to the missus who
is short of her and has £8 to spare. The
lady is to subscribe the £8 to pay. passage
money, and the Millions Club will then
secure and forward from Britain the genuine
domestic, hall-marked and warranted tame,
and the lucky recipient will proceed to get
back her money by weekly deductions from
Mary’s wages. At least, that is what the
Millions Club proposes. But even suppos-
ing that the “carefully selected domestics
don’t turn out on arrival to be something
altogether different, and the laws with regard
to the importation of contract labor consent
to turn a blind eye that way, and supposing,
further, that enterprising labor agents
don’t get in and secure the _ arriving
treasures for somebody who . isn’t the
consignee, Mrs. Rose Bay will still he
likely to meet all sorts of e
when she starts to make the weekly deduc-
tion, and Mary realises that there are plenty
of “places” available where there are no
weekly deductions. About the time tn
harassed secretary has got through explain-
ing to excited ladies that he isn’t responsible,
the Millions Club will be a discredited insti-
tution.


' T^t T(N
AUQUSTOS
Tot to n-5 •
W7\S /\
M A.N OF ;.
RFGOIAR
|
AT
,Ho»JK
~DA'»-Y.
(3) _
X>»NEO AT SAriel
YeAR. UN
YeiAK our
Hl5 OFFice
ON T*\X.
STRpKE of
!r>'Roppco
HTS "BOOTS
OL»TS !!>■£ H » 5
DOO'R AT
minutEL
H/*\C H N IQHT,
Until XWT
\\f\\> A ’5TROK£''
Bv A KINDLY CABCPUEfi
® ’/»? Bottle of Schweppes Soda,
HF WENT to Mts MEt>IC»fNE MAK
You’ve
L'E./NDiNC- A
Too REQOLAR
-MFE . SA»D
DOCTOR, yVHAT You
WANT 4 CHANGE AND EXCITEMENT
AND ABov/C ALL NtVI;R TO
take Your nSarto Regularly.
AUGUSTUS POP.


-o
Mirrors
and
Glass
Ware
Always
bright
and clearT
after
Bon Amt'i
w
For
Kitchen
Ware
The
Bon Ami
way i*
the
easiest
way.
Bon Ami Bon Ami
■ass*
Q
The operation takes just one work-
ing minute and _ leave* the mirroe
brilliant.
nssr
Brilliantly polish up your pots ket-
tles and pans with Bon Arpi—it's
perfect.
r*
THe World’s Best
DAIMLER
Motor Lorry.
Silent Knight Engine.
Shaft Drive No Chains.
1
% •
SUNSHINE
Motor Cars P’t’y
Melbourne.
Htigh V. McKay, Sydney & Adelaide,
Sole
Agents^
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Billy Blue”: The Sydney daily press has
again been reviving the old tradition that the name
of the ancient suburb of Parramatta was its native
monniker, meaning “where eels sit down.” It makes
a pretty picture, and it is a wonder the papers have
not had an illustration of an old buck eel gracefully
reclining on a mangrove mudbank. But there is
no authority whatever in any of our records
for attaching such a meaning to the name. The real
thing will be found in a letter written by the wife
of John Macarthur on September 1, 1795, in which
she says: “By the date of this letter you will see
that we still reside on our farm at Parramatta, a
native name signifying the head of a river.” This
letter is printed in Vol. 11. of the “Historical Re-
cords of N. S. Wales.”
MORE LIKE A FRIEND.
The evidence indicates that for some years he
has been addicted to drink, and that he has not only
neglected at times to provide properly for the sup-
port of his wife and children, but in addition has
been guilty of acts of personal violence and cruelty
to his wife....But the petitioner could not say that
the respondent wilfully separated himself from her
against her will. Not only did the evidence indi-
cate that she gladly consented to his remaining away
from her, but it also established that she made it
plain to him that she would not live with him again.
— Judge’s summing-up in recent unsuccessful petition
for divorce by a deserted wife.
His Hon. : “For 14. years your husband has
been an habitual drunkard, and has con-
sistently beaten and left you unprovided
for. On such occasions you were no doubt
glad to see the last of him 'I ”
“ You bet I was ! Look at these marks ”
“ Then , under the circumstances , madam , what
you allege to be desertion was merely evi-
dence of his kindly heart and a loving
readiness to oblige and meet your every
wish. Petition dismissed.”
“Bushman”: My first experience of
Binghi’s tracking qualifications was back in the ’6o’s.
Two elderly blacks had been given the heel of a
barrel of beer that had gone off in a Vic. bush pub,
and had departed for their camp, carrying it in a
borrowed bucket. A couple of hours later my father
and I, searching for strayed horses, came across the
abos., sound asleep beneath a bushy-headed, low
tree, with the bucket, now only half full of sour ale,
between them. Dad lifted the brewery, and hung it
in the thick of the tree, and we moved on. We
circled through the bush, over a hill, across some
very scrubby creek country, and reached home from
the direction opposite to that from which we had
departed. About four o’clock that afternoon, two
blacks came out of the bush exactly where we had
emerged, and walked up to the house. They were
the shareholders in the brewery, and they had
tracked us relentlessly for some information con-
cerning it. When Dad gave them its address the
antics of those untutored brothers were something
to remember. The second experience was also in
outback Victoria, on an occasion when one Col-
stone, or Colston, had murdered an old
couple named Davis. The husband was killed by
the roadside, about a mile away from home, after
which the slayer made a detour, through the bush,
entered the house by the front way, killed Mrs.
Davis in bed, departed by the back way into the
bush, across Dom Dom Creek, and through a marsh
to the Black Spur Hotel. Two young binghis, not
long over from Queensland, were with the police,
and when they arrived on the scene they' rapidly
followed Colston’s tracks and described his move-
ments. The local police meanwhile had constructed
a clumsy theory that a neighbor had committed the
crime. Fortunately for this man he had a very
large foot, while the binghis insisted that the
man they tracked had a very small foot. Had they
admitted, as was suggested to them, that it might
be a large foot, the police would have arrested an
innocent man, and woven a web of strong circum-
stantial evidence around him. To the credit of
the trackers, they never faltered? They knew
their business.
* * * *
“Ding Bat” : Get on to this! I dropped
in to see a cocky in Northern Maoriland the other
day, and saw milking machines in operation for the
first time. They seemed to be bailing out the god-
desses in great style, which made me the more sur-
prised to see one small boy hand-milking a cow. I
asked him why. “This is what we use for ourselves,”
he replied. “The toobs [tubes] stink.” One sniff
satisfied me that restraint in his language was that
boy’s strong point.
* * * *
“Gin”: “Leo Lear” says (B. 23/10/’l3)
that the bushman reads more than the city youth
or bloke. In this part of Monaro (N.S.W.) the
bushman does not read. He was mostly born here,
and lives his blameless life on the spot, without
aspirations and in deep content. He tails sheep,
smokes, eats, sleeps and yarns about “that there
steer o’ Stone’s,” “me ole roan mare,” rabbits,
sheep, lambs and snakes. Lately I met the excep-
tion. He was going fresh and strong on Bill Beach,
and spoke glowingly of Hanlan. Hardly a station
hand in my vicinity has ever heard of Henry Law-
son even. Of course, there are exceptions. But,
although our bushmen don’t read, they take keen
notice of things they see. An
example has just returned to us
after spending 10 days or so in
Sydney. He can describe every
inch of 11.M.A.5. Australia, knows
exactly how many wethers (“20,
be gob!”) could be comfortably
stalled in each gun, the size of
the shells and their carrying and
destructive powers. He knows
how the bluejackets feed, and can
describe the ladies waiting at
Man-o’-war Steps. He also trav-
ersed wool stores and machinery
and motor establishments, and has
a wealth of interesting details
concerning them. He visited the
mixed bathing beaches, was
edified with the behavior at
Manly, and horrified with the
misbehavior somewhere else. He
is eloquent on transparencies, and
describes the fashions faithfully.
So far, he has not reached the
opera or politics, but I expect
them along next week. What’s
the use of reading when you’ve
got a bottomless mine of infor-
mation like that to draw on?
• • • *
“Camp” : Old Dan Ryan, a local big gun,
was judge. Intervals between events were long, the
day was hot, and annual re-unions between friends
were frequent and moist. By the time the Langi-
Yaloak Cup was run Dan had buried enough
whisky to go on with. There was a field of five
horses, and the finish was a ding-dong go between
a black mare and a grey gelding. Up the straight
they hurtled and passed the posts with the grey
about half a nose to the good. Josh Hill, the
clerk of the course, promptly convoyed the grey
up to the box. “That’s not the winner,” said Dan.
“Why don’t yez keep yer eyes open?” “The old
chap marked the black mare,” thought Josh. “Any-
how, it was pretty close.” So he straightway
brought along the black, and, in turn, the three
“also-rans,” each being rejected with rising in-
dignation by Dan. The crowd and the bookies by
this time were nearly barmy, while Josh’s temper
was badly frayed. “You old he-goat,” he yelled,
“that’s all the damned horses that ran.” “Y’ im-
pident blaggard!” roared Dan. “Would yez have
me disbelieve me own eyes ? I tell y’ ’twas a
piebald that won!”
NO END TO HIS SURPRISES.
EGBERT: “Did year about ’ Ector Bolger?”
CUTHBELT : “No. Wol's ’e done now? ”
EGBERT: “Committed sooicide; chucked 'isself under a railway train!”
CUTHRERT : “Lor', what it 'e be doin' next?”
“Fitz”: I’ve saved dozens of dogs suffering
from ticks. Treatment: Discover the parasite or
family, and introduce the kerosene bottle. Saturate
the curse well, and count it out. Tie the dog up
in a cool place or a tub of water, and, instead of
giving him food, entertain him with a packet of
Epsom. Add a few drops of liquid ammonia every
hour till there are signs that the sufferer is getting
back his punch or bite. If he is far gone give
him strychnine solution, which can be obtained
with directions at any pill shop. It will then be a
case of kill or cure.
* • * *
“Condamine”: He was fresh from the
Old Dart, and seemed anxious to make an impres-
sion on his new boss. “First,” said the boss, “we’ll
knock up a hut for you.” When by their united
labors it had reached the stage where all that was
required was to nail on the boards, the farmer left
for the day and instructed his aide-de-camp to com-
plete the job. On returning home that night the
boss was told that the hut was finished, w'hereupon
he suggested that Algie should hump his nap over
and sleep there. A few minutes later the young rnan
returned to say that he couldn’t get in. Sure enough
he couldn’t. He’d made a complete box which could
be opened only with an axe.
* * * *
“Jenks” : Bill Wheatear came to the city
for the races, and one morning at his pub he had a
yarn with the barman, who told him a “good thing.”
The barman said if he was going out to the races
that afternoon to be sure and have a bit on Fidget
for the five-furlong flutter. Bill’s friend further con-
fided that the wiser course was to back Fidget “in
the running,” as the mare was very unreliable at
the barrier ; “but if she hops out, the race is all
over, bar collecting,” he concluded. “Just as well
I met that bloke,” William remarked to himself on
the course when the scratcliings were hoisted and
he saw that Fidget was a starter. Everybody else
was busy with his bets, and Bill mooched about
getting more restless every minute. “Wish they’d
’urry up and start the blasted race —Fidget is 10
to 1 now,” he said to himself. At last 1 Here they
come out on the track, Fidget looking well. Bill
chews at his card as the nags face the barrier.
They’re off! Fidget has “hopped out”! Bill
rushes up to the nearest bookie with a £1 note in
his moist hand. The registered man is watching
the race through his field glasses. “What’ll yer give
us Fidget?” Bill roars, but Solomon is interested
elsewhere. Off Bill rushes to the next. “What’ll
yer give us Fidget?” he bellows. “Take 5 to 1,”
said Abraham. “No good to me,” gasps Bill flying
to the next. “What’ll yer give us Fidget?” “Take
10 to 1,” answered Mossy. “Gawd blimey!” On
once more, perspiring and excited. “What’ll yer
give” Too late! No. 7 (Fidget’s number) is
hoisted on the board, and William came to life in
time to hear someone say that the horse had won
by a short head, but the time was rather slow.
Bill glared.. “Slow be damned!” he snarled; “/
never even had time to hack the blasted thing!”
“Marloo” : If “John Moran” were not the
modest gentleman I am sure he is, he would not have
fallen so into error in describing the snake’s
method of getting out of its wearing ap-
parel (B. 30/10/’l3). Had his sense of deli-
cacy not caused him to turn away at the crucial
moment, he would have seen that the snake
does not crawl straight out of its wrapper, hut
throws it off by reversing it. In other words, it
SYMBOLICAL.
My boy Sam used to
’ave a ’en; it wuz
that b anky shy it used ter ’ide its end
every time it lay a hegg. An we gorra
consid able shock when we foun' out why
that ’en wuz so ashamed of itself u
wuz layin' HEMPTY HEGGS!! ”
“Cripes! Send that to The Bulletin. Nor-
man Lindsay could draw Joe Cook fer the
'en!”
turns the skin inside out. John need not outrage
his finer feelings in order to test the truth of this
statement. Let him procure and examine a cast-off
garment. He will then observe that the transparent
covering of the eyes and scales are concave and not
convex, which they would be if the method of casting
were as he narrated. Incidentally, John might notice
that the removal of the raiment takes place in rough
surroundings and never on a smooth surface.
(Continued on page 24J
INTERIOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I possess a magnificent interior.”
—The High Commissioner.
Wrote the missionary home:
“After crossing of the foam —
No voyage could be dismaller or drearier —
We found a lovely land,
With plenty smiling bland;
It owns a most magnificent interior —
We’re settling in a wonderful interior.”
Said the Chief of Wanki-poo:
“When the Gospel Ship is due,
Put on the pot and make the village cheerier;
Let the missionary see
We shall perfectly agree—
He’s coming to a wonderful interior,
We’ve got a most magnificent interior.”
Said the papers when they heard
Of a Something that occurred:
“The ways of Wanlci-poo-dom somewhat eerie are;
And our hapless brother —well,
Where he is we cannot tell;
We fear he’s lost in Wanki-poo’s interior;
He’s bushed in that magnificent interior.”
Rose a statesman at a spread,
With a portly grace and said:
“I know you folks of speechifying weary are;
But the fish and fruit and wine
Have aromas all divine
To him who has a competent interior,
And I’ve a most magnificent interior! ”
Said the worms who came to prey
On a politician’s clay:
“Now this is what we call a dish superior,
So round, and full and fat,
You couldn’t growl at that —
So large and rich, so very much interior,
A cut and carve and come-again interior!”
QUEENSLAND.
PHILANDER FLAM.


Pears’
Annual
for
Christmas
1913
A PERFECT FEAST
OF HUMOUR AND
ARTISTIC BEAUTY.
With a delightful cover,
reproducing a water-colour
drawing, representing
“A Village Church
by Moonlight on
Christmas Eve,”
By FRANK DADD.r.i.
A Superb and Unique Issue
containing
A Dozen Merry Stories by a
Dozen Merry Authors;
“DAGONET”
BARRY PAIN
T.P.O’CONNOR.M.P.
CHARLES PEARS
FRANK RICHARDSON
PETT RIDGE
MAX PEMBERTON
GEO. R. SIMS
OLIVER ONIONS
W. LE QUEUX
KEBLE HOWARD
JAMES BURNLEY
with drawings by a
Dozen Merry Artists :
E. T. PARRIS.
H. M BRO K, R.I.
HARRY FURNISS
THL AUTHOR
A. C, GOULD
FRED ROE. R.I.
L. RAVEN-HILL
WILL OWEN
LAWSON WOOD
FR ANK DADD, R I.
JOHN HASSALL.R.I-
G. S. WRIGHT
Three
Presentation Plates
each Printed in twelve colours
1. PETS. From an original picture by
G. SHERIDAN KNOWLES, R.I.
2. THE OLD FARM. From a painting by
J. F. HERRING.
3. APPETISING. A Charming Still Life
Study by E. LADELL,
Together with
Four Humorous Full-Page
Plates in Colours
entitled “THE CHRISTMAS GUEST”
by G. S. WRIGHT.
A Page of Comical Con'rasts, “The Old Ghosts and the
New,” byW.K.HASELDEN, and A Page of Caricatures
by E. T. REED.
Sold by all Booksellers
and Newsagents.
Agents for Australasia:
GORDON & GOTCH.
?V RI ”
The
NELSON
BANKER
Carboiiatoi
For Real,
Live
Hotelkeepers
We want every Hotelkeeper in Australia to instal a Nelson “Banker” Carbonator.
They are absolutely our best advertisement!—wherever used they evoke the
greatest praise.
They make for £4 what costs £l6 from the Manufacturers. This is
a fact we’ll prove.
Any handy man can successfully work the “Banker” ; wonderfully simple to handle
and never gets out of repair.
It’s the best “sleeping partner” in the world for the Hotelkeeper a real Banker,
not only in name, but from an actual “investment” point of view. Send us youi
name and address, for details as to its low price, terms, etc.
Make a note of the fact that we sell the finest Soda Fountains in the
WO rld —Soda Fountains that will withstand the hardest usage,
because of their Splendid Materials and Superior Workmanship.
We carry Soda Fountain, Refreshment Room and
Hotel Supplies The Lowest Prices.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
Nelson’s Carbonating Co. Ltd.
167 GEORGE STREET (Circular Quay), SYDNEY.
Queensland Agents: CHAMBERS & DUNNE, Roma St., Brisbane.
* .
#
3-phase 22 00 volt
Switchboard with Tirril
Regulator—built to the
specification of G. A.
Julius, Esq., Consult-
ing Engineer, Sydney —
for a mine in New
Zealand. Photo shows
front view of board.
Siemens’ Switchboard Construction
We specialise in Switchboard construction, and are
prepared to quote for the supply and construction, at
our Stafford (Eng.) Works, of Switchboards to any
size or voltage. We are also prepared to quote
for the construction, in the Sydney workshop, of
Switchboards for ordinary low- and high-tension
installations of moderate power-with direct or
remote mechanical control. The types of boards
include direct current generator and feeder panels ;
alternating current generator and feeder panels;
for generating and sub-station plants of all kiuds.
Switchgear of any type will also be quoted on,
either to be supplied from stock or specially prepared.
fd
Siemens Brothers Dynamo Works Limited,
42 Bridge Street, Sydney. 29 William Street, Melbourne.
29 William Street, Melbourne.
ecu '''■
Telegraphic Address* “SIEMENS,” Sydney


Jignet6ftd
Sporting Cartridges.
SPECIAL FEATURES:
General Evenness of Pattern, Velocity
and Pressure.
Freedom from Blowback.
Less Recoil than that given by any other
Fully-loaded Standard Ammunition.
nut
KYNOCtt MADt
"BONAX"
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE—
-14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
STOMACH TROUBLES.
Laxo-Tonic Pills are a most effective remedy for
Biliousness and all irregularities of the stomach and
bowels. They act quickly and effectually, without
weakening the system, as is the case with most medi-
cines used for these troubles. Price, IOJd. and Is. 6d.
Obtainable everywhere.*
•win
AUSTRALIANS !!
INSURE
IN
THE 1.0. A.
Fire, Marine, Accident, Live Stock.
AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
m
CARL ZOELLER
246 Queen St.
Brisbane, Q.
Established 1896.
EVERY BUSHMAN
Should have a copy of
this Book—lT’S FREE
It tells all about Emas-
culating Colts, Branding
and Earmarking Cattle,
Dehorning Calves, Spay-
ing Cows, about Prevent-
ing Pleuro, Mammitis,
and Blackleg, about Im-
pregnating Barren
Mares and Cows.
Teaches you Horse
Dentistry and other
useful knowledge
This Valuable Book is
Posted FREE. Write
for your Copy NOW.
Free
'2OE ytERS .
Y
“The Vagabond” : T can put “Camp” right
as to the origin of the phrase “mad as a hatter”
(B. 23/10/’l3), which he says is Australian. The
first “mad hatter” came to earth with “Alice in
Wonderland.” When the book was published, the
English newspapers enjoyed it so much that every
bright sentence was quoted over and over, until some
passed into proverbs, and thus the “mad hatter” has
lived.
* » * »
“N.M.”: Talking about eccentric em-
ployers (“Silas Snell” was, a week or two ago), old
Maurice Weston, who owned the Shene estate, Cluny,
Morrison and other valuable property in the
Brighton and Bothwell districts, used to be our Tas-
manian champion. He was known far and wide as
“Blossom.” He called every horse “Blossom,” and
in the end got called by the same name. A kindly
old chap was Weston, and one who never liked to
turn away men looking for work, though at times
he was hard put to know what to give them to do.
“See that gate down there?” he said to one appli-
cant. “I’ve got a man swinging it. You can go
and sit on it while it swings.” The job ended in a
fight, and Weston, coming along in the thick of it,
sent for a trooper and had both locked up for the
night. Another time, when work was slack, he set
a man to dig a hole, so many feet by so many, and
of such and such a depth. The new hand set to work,
picked and shovelled, put his back into the work,
trimmed and patted the orifice into shape and went to
the house to report. “Yes,” said Maurice, inspecting,
“that’s what I wanted. Now fill it up again.” As
the old man aged and his eccentricities increased,
cadgers frequently omitted the formality of soiling
their hands, and turned up on pay-day claiming
wages for as long as seemed prudent. One bearded
agriculturist who had been sacked, had a clean
shave, came back and was re-engaged to fill the
vacancy left by “that scoundrel.” The boss often
congratulated himself on having got so good a man
in exchange. There was a fine spaciousness about
the Weston methods that appealed to the imagina-
tion and flung most of the properties into the hands
of the banks. “Blossom’s” order sent to a horse
sale is still remembered—“ All the horses you can
get.” The result was a miscellaneous collection of
120. Horses were up, too. The mob was driven up
to Shene, and the weeds that were not worth bother-
ing over were turned out in the back country. Some
died there; others were removed by casual persons
who felt they required a little riding exercise.
BOARDIN’ HER.
THE PILOT: “No wet togs these days!”
“Pick”: It was at Reevesdale station, near
Bungonia (N.S.W.), that the sweet-briar, a Gold
Country importation, was first planted in Australia.
Charles Reeves Styles, who got a grant of those
broad acres in the glorious days of assigned con-
victs, cheap labor and no strikes, brought three
cuttings with him from England, and carefully nursed
the only one that survived. He lived long enough lo
see the pick of his lands matted with the thorny
reminder of ’Ome, but not long enough to see his
successors and neighbors ruined in their endeavors
to reclaim the lands from the ever-spreading horror.
Nowadays the briar has planted itself far and wide,
and, like other imported curses, has mostly selected
the best lands. It can be stunted if you yoke a
team of bullocks to it in wet seasons, or use forest
devils on it, and afterwards feed down the young
shoots with sheep or goats; but I have never yet
met the bloke, fellow or cove who could wholly eradi-
cate the nark, and I badly want to hear of him.
A BASE INSINUATION.
LADY: “ Would you kindly get my little dog out of that public-house, please?”
BILL THE BATTLER (courteously): “ Suttingly, mum. Which bar was you in?”
“Celia Lloyd”: For the defendant in the
case against the black-tracker, I quote from a
diary kept by a cattleman in N. Queensland in 1870.
He tells us that on February 1 in that year, their
horses having been stolen by blacks, he and his
mate, with two black boys, all mounted, tracked the
animals for four days, for the greater part of the
time from the saddle and at a trot. On the morn-
ing of February 5, they found their lost nags feed-
ing by a creek. That afternoon, four miles from
where they found the horses, they picked up the
tracks of two blacks; and as each left foot was
minus the first joint of the middle toe, it appeared
that the thieves were women of
a district where the missus was
marked that way. The “boys” in-
sisted, however, that the tracks
were those of men, and pointed
out that wherever they showed
plainly the right track was heav-
ier than the left, and the latter
heavier at the heel end. It appears
that it was quite necessary to
shoot horse-thieves in those days,
so the chase was continued, over
country where, according to the
writer, it would have been hardly
possible for an ordinary man to
track a shod elephant; and a
brace of black men died from
lead-poisoning (or something to
that effect) on the morning of
February 8. The amputation of
the toe had taken place only a
few days previously, apparently
to deceive the trackers; and the foot had become
tender—hence the light tracks. Said the boys: “This
fellow savee too much—me savee more.”
» * * *
“Potbrook” : A word for that much-abused
bird, the crow. Although 1 have cursed him in and
out of season, and even dropped the “r” out of his
name, I must say he’s a game lot when there is
trouble amongst his own people. While I was riding
through a paddock recently, my dog was set on and
given a wild time by a party of crows for some
unknown reason. A few days later I was in the same
paddock, and again the birds got going on the dog,
who had been hunting around. I was curious, and
investigated. Near the trunk of a fallen tree I
found one of the flock with a broken wing. It was
a bad break, and there was no hope of a recovery.
I think he knew it, for he had a look on him like
Jokook has when the Majority is missing. How long
the gang had stuck to him, seeing him down the steep
places, I don’t know. He reached the steepest of
them that afternoon, for I sent him to the land
that is flowing with sheep’s eyes and tripe, not
because he looked like Jokook, but because I was
sorry for him, and it gave the others a chance to go
to the country.
“Masarcus”: I want to know the name of
the striped green and yellow snake which resides
along the Murray banks. It’s not in any directory
or tide manual that I know, although the beast is as
familiar ashore as afloat. I daresay I could have got
the name of the green part of him at the office of
the Protestant Watchman, and of the yellow at the
Cartiiolic Press, but that’s no good. I want the
simultaneous name, as it were.
“Bloore”: To the weighty tomes of Cow
literature I throw in the worst case I know of. The
Simon Legree to whom I refer has 60 cows, all
milked by four State boys, one of whom is 10 years
of age. Three times has one lad tried to get away,
but his luck seems to be right out and his dream of
stowing away on some ship at Newcastle has yet to
be realised. Between milkings the lads do a little
corn husking, and corn husking is about as pleasant
as husking oakum if you’ve got a pile to do.
“Eddyson” : Inge was sitting at his hat
floor, scraping parsnips, when Ridgeway passed
“Hello, Inge!” cried Ridgeway. “So yer goin’ t’
marry Seward’s widder, after all? Well, it’s the
best thing you can do!” Ridgeway continued big
mild career, and Inge sat, with a parsnip i n his
nerveless hand, and his mouth wide open, for nearly
10 minutes. Then he gulped and resumed the slow
rasping of his parsnips. “Goo’ day, Ben! Congratu-
lations!” It was Leggo. lie had pulled up at the
panels. “Congratulations—what for?” asked Inge
dully. “On yer approacliin’ marriage, o’ course
Milly Seward’ll make yeh a good wife all right”
Leggo rode on, leaving Inge inactive again, his mouth
open, his intellect groping towards a dull apprehen-
sion. Inge was still scraping parsnips when Miss Nichol-
son hailed him. “Good day, Mr. Inge, I’m so glad ”
Inge forgot his parsnips again. Knife in one hand
vegetable in the other, and mouth ajar, he gazed at
Miss Nicholson. “You ought to have been married
long ago, you know. If I were Mrs. Seward i
wouldn’t have been as patient, I can tell you,” said
Miss Nicholson. Inge’s eyes followed Miss Nicholson
till she passed over the hill; then he swallowed hard
and resumed his task, slowly scraping a parsnip
Within half an hour Hughes, Withington, Morton
Mrs. Rivers and Myles, the rabbit inspector, passed
and each one offered Inge neighborly congratulations
and each greeting threw Inge into the same state of
nervous inaction. Never had there been such
a trend of population past Inge’s hut. He was still
scraping parsnips, when a timid eye fell upon a
tall female figure coming down from Cole’s. For
10 seconds Inge gaped; then he fell over himself
into the hut, went out by the back door on all-
fours, and gained the timber in safety. The tall
figure was that of Mrs. Seward. So it happened that
Inge did not have parsnips for tea that evening.
During a trip to the railway at Flyflat next day!
Inge was congratulated 19 times going and coming!
He went like a man in a trance; he returned like
one possessed of devils—silent, tormenting devils.
While Inge was harvesting his two acres of spuds
that afternoon, Egan chanced along. Egan took
Inge’s hand, and wrung it silently but with great
warmth. He seemed overcome with emotion. “I
wanted her meself, Bennie,” he said; “I did that.
But if I can’t have her, ’tisn’t fer me t’ begrudge
him what can. Take her, me boy, an’ Godblesher.”
Egan wiped his eye, and passed on, leaving Inge
leaning on his hoe. Then came Bishop, and Carter,
and Mrs. Carter, and Bill Bracken. In two hours
Inge had turned up 14 spuds. He had just recovered
from the shock of Bracken’s congratulations when
he beheld the Rev. Josiah Nott coming at him from
Gray’s orchard. Inge adopted no subterfuge; he
dropped his hoe and ran. He ran a mile, and
arrived at the office of Hobbs, saw-miller, Flyflat, in a
breathless condition. “You wanter buy me bit iv
land along the crick?” he said. Hobbs admitted it.
“Seven quid an acre, you said?” “I’ll make it
seven,” said Hobbs. “I’ll take it!” Inge almost
screamed the words. “Gimme me deposit, an’ fix
th’ sale up ez quick’s possible. I’m clearin’ out.”
Inge left Flyflat next day. Hobbs and Leggo saw
him off. “It does seem a bit tough,” said Hobbs,
“but he barred my tramway, and I simply had to
have that timber paddock.”
* * * *
“F.H.R.”: Doolan was on his way up the
“crilc” to get a sheep from Casey’s; and mentioned
the fact to Ryan. As soon as he was gone a con-
sultation was held between the boys and old man
Ryan. When Doolan came abreast of Ryan’s on the
return journey, he. noticed a great commotion. Tuck-
ing the cloth round the carcase of his fat wether, he
ran in to see what might be the matter. “For the
love of Heaven, Doolan,” cried Mrs. Ryan, “you’re
just in time to see the last of him.” Ryan reposed
on the bed. His face was flushed and his great, hairy
chest was exposed. He took Doolan’s hand in what
seemed the death-grip and held on. “Don’t lave me,
Doolan.” he whispered in an unearthly voice. “Don’t
lave me—’tis me harrt; ’tis me harrt.” After a
quarter of an hour or so, Doolan tore himself away —
to find his mutton gone. They say that if Doolan
could have recovered his sheep as quickly as Ryan
recovered his health all would have been well.
THE IMPERISHABLE.
WELL-MEANING PARSON: “Ah, yes! We see
many changes around us—many changes;
but I like to think, Miss Smith, that yon
are one of the dear old things that never
changed."
WHY HE WENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Cup race itself is, in essence, nought but an
excuse for making public national holiday. Most of
us will attend the event to indulge our native pre-
dilections for gregarious intercourse.
— Cup-day leader in Melb. Age.
He had a pair of glasses on, he looked quite spick
and span ;
I thought he was a typical Australian racing man ;
But, when I asked him for a tip, he didn’t know a
horse:
“My secret I’ll divulge.
I’m going to indulge
My native predilection for gregarious intercourse.”
He went away to do it, and I haven’t seen him since.
I hope he put his all upon that most unlucky
Prince —
A human jay who talked like that deserved to make
a loss.
Confound the windy clown 1
I hope it got him down—
Him and his “predilection for gregarious inter-
course 1 ”
N.S.W.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
PILLS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Are pills “food” ? —-Legal point recently debated
at great expense.
There is a shelf at home
Whereon my bottles stand ;
Old “mixtures” darkly foam
And pills lie close at hand.
These balls in bottles pent
Now catalogue for me
Past ills that came and went —■
Some aching history.
I dare not throw one out,
In case I ache again ;
So I 'ake care about
My diary of pain.
Sometimes when in good key
A pill or two I cram,
If I think I might be
Much better than I am.
The “mixtures” effervesce ;
But all my being thrills,
Whenever I progress
Around my stock of pills.
Pills lull me now to sleep;
For still more pills I pray—
The bullets that I keep
For holding Death at bay.
Along Life’s stony track,
And over Time’s blue hills,
1 11 pelt the Reaper back
With pecks of purple pills.
In cool, judicial mood,
I’ll go to this great length:
Pills are my daily food,
My refuge and my strength 1
N.S.W.
SHILLING A BOX.


"■ t
vs
/, <m
4T\
Y:^4
M
H?
/ *}■
J .'>':
iff
M
~\'A
M
Ptr-'.cF
w. --- ''y vf ;
S'T- 1 -, . •? i
S4’'f4' : \
jfW
V~2\
f ■) fife:#--
•r&vviiH.-.y" ;X..
-y,i
1
rTs
m
V.
V-
>p ’
\
( tk
lu -
'*; I
$ /Mf
f
i 4
I2S
ill!
i!
*
’, r,?~9JC-n rvjMVe- -
a
2&feSi
9£
: yy \ if? (
SBR&g&M : ■ ■/■>.. ; mik
®73?
s^*
11
3e@wg(!
P
f
ms
Iy c
ffi
OT-aWTOWTIW
. V -5V '»♦/• ctrfi.i-
-1 r > I
/ V 7r^;_,-
j&Uf
o
lllal
/«
3gm'
£
77
N.
S*®
K
7-
j®
”<ssd
- '
K«-;«sA
If
g&ti
*: :>;•
i***
• $ 111 iW ir *' n^
r ./r-AM^XkS
J*
jP-3*B
__. — lf
,> m.iWff?*?- 1 *&*•*££■
•3W5
£{&&’
>* 'Va
six
s'/
-«rr'
u...
H
*%&&
4i p
5#
■V l^
■ a '®Js§ss
sESfi
m..
i -
ilf
ll
#/
fl^i
sr
- ■
!l
,v^
\
#;
l>ts ‘«*w
Sr^
.a
\
tm
MS
SK3
y
IT??
¥J l ‘'^ -4&
:y>yy
-. ■
ggj
>
-r^ 1
yyMm
m
if
*gy§¥
llf^’
•SS&
(_
• O
Ay
U
GobrSl> Boot Polish
Chunder Loo,
or Aki m Foo,
Shines upon
The ocean blue.
When his flag streams
In the breeze
Foes are polished
Off the seas.
From his course
Fie never swerves,
Peace and leather
Fie preserves,
And the people
Crowd the quay
When the COBRA
Puts to sea.


A New Lease of Health.
“ The wonders brought about by this
preparation are no less manifold than
amazing.”
So writes a well-known physician in
the Medical Press and Circular one
of sixteen thousand doctors who have
testified to the value of Sanatogen in
various kinds of weakness, loss of nerve-
power, impaired digestion, brain-fag,
sleeplessness, and general weakness.
Sanatogen, the tonic food with lasting
effects, has given a new lease of health
to more than a million sufferers, in-
cluding many of the most distinguished
people in the laud.
Nerve Power Restored.
The reason for Sauatogen’s great
efficacy in nervous disorders has been
pointed out by no less an authority than
Sir Charles A. Cameron, C. 8., M.D.,
Public Analyst of Dublin, who states:
“ Sanatogen is an excellent nerve food,
containing a large amount of organic
phosphorus in exactly the form in which
it can be easily absorbed.”
But Sanatogen does more than revivify
the nervous system. It also builds up
the muscular tissues and has a beneficial
effect upon every organ of the body.
Write for a Free Booklet.
All who feel run down, weary and
depressed—Nature’s warning of nervous
weakness —should write to-day for a Free
Booklet, “ The Art of Living,” to Messrs.
A. Wulfing & Co., 17, Bond Street,
Sydney, N.S.W. Kindly mention this
paper when writing.
Sanatogen is sold by all Chemists,
price 2s. 6d., 3s. 6d., and 6s. 6d. per tin.
“ I have watched the effects of upon persons suffei ing
from various kinds of weakness and loss of nerve-power, and 1
have proved it to be most valuable.” —Lady Henry Somerset.
“T. 0.1.”: It is said you can tell an Eng-
lishman by his constant longing to kill
something. Some Australians are as bad, or
worse. Just now their “something” is a
grove of historic trees on Wardry station,
22 miles from Condobolin (N*S.W.), where
explorer John Oxley camped nearly a cen-
tury ago—to be exact, 1817-19. There he
observed two peculiarly-marked pine trees
adjacent to the grave of an aboriginal chief.
These trees were recently discovered by a
party headed by traffic-superintendent Milne,
of Orange. A number of Condobolin resi-
dents went out the other day to view the
spot and have a chat upon native habits.
It was then stated that the tree with the
native marks, and in a state of perfect
preservation, would be cut down and for-
warded to the Sydney Museum; but some
local people, who don’t see why everything
should be sent to Sydney, want a small
reserve proclaimed to include both the trees
and the grave. Let’s hope the iconoclasts
won’t win this time.
Sydney Government House is a good ad-
vertisement of the patriotism of the men
who were in high office when the place was
built. Governor Bourke led the way and
spoke up for Australian materials whenever
he got the chance. So the cedar in itaircase
and other parts is Australian; the
marble came from the few N.S.W. quarries
then opened, and the stone from handy places
in the Domain and Botanic Gardens. Nearly
everything, in fact, was Australian except
the architectural plan; that was supplied by
an English architect named Blore and pre-
sented by the British Government. More-
over, after a good deal of discussion, the
middleman contractor was cut out, and, by
Bourke’s direct orders, Mortimer Lewis, the
Colonial Architect, was given a free hand
to employ masons, carpenters and others at
current rates. Altogether, the building is a
monument of the best ideals of 1837, when
the first £lO,OOO was placed on the Estimates
towards the cost of the work.
“The Puritan has always been the expert
politician. He has so little in his own life
that is amusing that he is forced to meddle
with the affairs of other people.” —Sidney
Dark, in his new novel, “The Man Who
Would Not Be King.”
‘Teace at Any Price”: Will someone in
Sydney (the Gaud Mayor, for preference)
start movement to suppress unnecessary
street, noises? Such modern tortures as the
snarling motor-lorry cannot be suppressed;
but the barrel-organ can be banished from
the inner city, and the speeding motor-hog’s
dying-pig scream can be taken from him and
some sort of milder alarm substituted. Every
civilised city should have a Censor of Noises,
and he should not allow one more yell or
thump than is absolutely necessary. As a
rule, a loud and discordant noise, however
produced, is an indication that there is an
incompetent about. The competent man or
woman contrives to work with a minimum
of clatter ; it is only the loud and slapdash
fool who bangs the broom against the skirt-
ing board, dumps the valuable packing-case
violently on one corner, drives headlong over
a rough patch of road, or howls when a con-
versational tone would be sufficient. A little
judicious regulating would reduce the street
noises of Sydney 25 per cent., and a set of
formidable by-laws would probably get it
down a good deal further.
From another member of the shark-toothed
profession:—
If the time is mature for the law to compel the
filing of wills before death (B. 18/9/’l3), it is
equally mature for looking into a dozen other mat-
ters relating to wills. The existing Common Law
and Statute Law leave much to be desired in the
way of suppressing very many brands of fraud. Con-
sider, for instance, the position of the attesting wit-
nesses. Under the law there is much complicated
detail concerning how, where, and in whose presence
the witnesses are to sign; but absolutely no restric-
tion is put on the qualifications for an adult witness,
beyond that he or she must not be dead drunk, or
imbecile, or possessed of an interest under the will.
A witness may be a notorious blackguard or an
ignorant clod, but those little matters don’t cut any
ice at all. Testamentary dispositions are supposed
to be as important as most other documents, and yet
their attestation (which, be it remembered, goes to
the very essence of their validity) can be performed
by almost any two individuals who happen to be
hanging about or lying down at the time. In striking
contrast is the system prevailing under the Transfer
of Land Acts, which provide that only a person who
has the qualifications therein specified can witness any
document coming within the scope of those Acts,
however trivial the affair to which such document re-
lates. This special statutory witness has in practice
scarcely ever been found to stray from the paths of
virtue in this respect. Why not bring wills into
line? Surely one person who is commonly presumed
to possess a fair amount of commercial morality and
good sense is more fit to perform such a task than
two possible fools or two possible rogues. Indispu-
tably the present law allows of an enormous amount
of fraud, and undue influence of almost uncountable
kinds. Moreover, it is generally admitted by the
profession and others in a position to know that the
corruption or Arcadian simplicity of one or both of
the attesting witnesses is directly or indirectly re-
sponsible for about 25 per cent, of the cases relating
to wills which come before the Courts. The innova-
tion would, of course, do awuy with many “deathbed
wills,” because a special witness would not always
be handy. Consequently, for a short time it would
give rise to a few extra cases of intestacy; but even
that result would be far preferable to the present
method, by which the designing would-be beneficiary
may take an unfair advantage of the mental inertia
of the moribund testator and the easily gulled or
easily bribed attesting witness.
Commendation of Australia b defence
policy comes from unexpected quarters. At
Hongkong there is the
established by the Government, and used
chiefly, if not exclusively, by Chinese. Lt
publishes in English and Chinese a very pre-
sentable monthly magazine, the bellow
Dragon, whose October issue reprints iro
The Bulletin “Den’s” long Son or a
Fool” verses —the son of a fool being the
spendthrift who took no steps to defend his
possessions. “We draw attention, says the
Yellow Dragon, “to the powerful lines,
‘Son of a Fool,’ taken from the Sydney
Bulletin —lines that surely can only be
addressed to the small _ and uninfluential
minority of those who object to the working
of the military system of home defence m
the Commonwealth of Australia.” Ihe idea
of not preparing to defend your home evi-
dently strikes the Yellow Dragon as too
ridiculous to appeal to anybody but a few
cranks who don’t count.
“Celia Lloyd”: Thousands of Japs look
upon Australia as the Promised Land, and
it would probably thrill us if we knew how
many of them are getting in early. They
manage it in all sorts of ways, and this is
one. There is a large memorial stone at
Broome (Nor’-West Australia) bearing a
long list of the names of Japs lost in a
willy-willy some five years ago. Now, I
knew many of those Japs, and only lately
I’ll swear I have seen two of them in N. S.
Wales. It is pretty well known up in that
smudged corner that Japs supposed to have
been lost had run their luggers up on the
beach, after making as much of a wreck of
them as possible, and worked their way down
the coast to scatter through Australia.
The supposed loss of the vessels cleared the
owner of all responsibility, the crews were
written off as drowned, and everybody w T as
satisfied, including the energetic pioneers
from Nippon who were not dead but cheat-
ing.
The shipping cos. can’t, with their present
equipment, keep pace with the rush from
this Labor-strangled country, so they go on
building bigger and bigger ships, and chasing
more and more of them out to load up with
escaping Capital. The 18,500 ton Ceramic
has hardly got her pick down on Austra-
lian mud before someone signals that a
20,000-tonner is being built for the Aus-
tralian trade —we mean for fleeing Austra-
lian Capital. The Suez Canal is evidently
blocked with ships loaded dowm to Plimsoll
with Capital, so the Cape route has been
putting on fine fleets to relieve the conges-
tion. Now the Clan Line has decided to
build further tonnage. The owners say this
is for the Australian trade, but, of course,
there is no Australian trade. Labor legis-
lation killed it, and the Sosh tiger ate the
corpse. The Clan Line is really building to
provide Capital with more deep-sea escapes.
The new 15,000-ton Orient liner, of which
the plans have just been approved, is also
to swim out on the same mission of rescue.
It almost looks as if Australian trade —
But, rubbish, there is no Australian trade!
“Billy T.”: They take it all ways. He
was standing near me at the start of the
1913 Cup, a tallish man, thin, grey-faced,
possibly 45, in a brave but battered bell-
topper, and trousers frayed slightly at the
heels. My attention was attracted to him
by his eloquence. He was talking to him-
self audibly and fluently, while seeming to be
doing his utmost to eat a large, white, cotton
handkerchief. I heard: “If he should! If
he should! My God, if he should! They’re
off! No, not yet, not yet! Now they arc.
No. They’re off! Oh, my God!” Biting
wildly at his pocket handkerchief till it was
torn to shreds, he followed the race, his
large, blue, watery eyes seeming unpleasantly
prominent, and every stride of the horses
drew an ejaculation. “Where is he? My
God, I can’t see him! If he hasn’t started!
He’s left at the post.” Here followed a
sweep of blasphemy which for sheer inten-
sity, for cold, concentrated vehemence, I have
never heard equalled. Then he thought he
had found the colors again, and thanked God
with the same ardor. As they were
coming home down the straight, I saw the
sweat flowing in streams from under the
man’s hat. It was bitterly cold there in the
wind, but four rivuftts of perspiration were
trickling down my neighbor’s taut, grey
face. “I can’t see,” he was saying. “My
God, I can’t see! Yes. there he is! God
in Heaven, that’s he!” Then he simply ejacu-
lated, “My God! my God!” with a rising
inflection and many changes of feeling, end-
ing in a shrill scream as the race finished.
All being over, he broke down and cried—
collapsed on the sward, weeping noisily. Two
men helped him up, but he crumpled in their
hands in a faint. “Poor devil! Lost every
penny, I suppose,” was the most frequent
comment in the sympathetic crowd. I
thought that a reasonable explanation, too;
but as a matter of fact the man had Posin-
atus in a sweep, and had won something
over £6OOO.
There have been some good stayers on
Maoriland’s Supreme Court Bench. Joshua
Williams, who has just been appointed to the
judicial committee of the Privy Council, has
38 years’ service to his credit. C. W. Rich-
mond died in his 33-year-old harness; ditto,
A. J. Johnston, 30 years; Prendergast re-
signed after 24 years as Chief; and several
others sat on for 16. 17 and 18 years. The
shortest stay on the Bench was that of “Pat”
Buckley. Appointed in December, 1895, by
his political chief. Richard John Seddon, he
died five months later.
Following on the big increase in the cost
of running the N. S. Wales railways comes
a chorus from the morning press, inferring
that the wage increases are ruinous and are
imposing an intolerable burden on the Back-
bone. The poidl is carefully overlooked that
the increases which are causing such alleged
trouble have been made by independent
boards, after careful investigation, and in
those boards’ opinion represent only a fair
and reasonable thing. And in most cases
those making the investigations—Justice
lleydon, for instance —could scarcely _be
credited with an unduly wild and luxurious
notion of what are reasonable wages for a
worker. It would be more profitable, before
yelling wildly at increased wages and con-
sequent increased freights, to howl at a few
other factors which are making the Ma
State railways frantically expensive. _ For
instance, the increase in wages is a mighty
small circumstance compared with the ex-
pense involved day after day in dragging
produce unnecessary miles merely in order
to let Sydney have a cut at it.
HOT STUFF.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A striking: frock the color of Dijon mustard com-
bined with the darker shade of Bordeaux mustard
aroused much attention. —Cup fashion note.
The subtle, condimental tints
in Clementina’s Cup confection,
Accentuate, with saucy hints,
The creaminess of her complexion.
She wears a vinegary gown,
A belt of Blank and Jorkins’ leather,
Her hat, a vivid cayenne brown,
With mushroom-ketchup-colored feather.
Her .gloves, of Bordeaux mayonnaise,
A mustard stole her curves caressing
With vegetable greens and greys,
The latest thing in salad dressing.
Her coat, of Bombay curry shade,
Is draped with desiccated suet,
And in her laces are displayed
The varied colors of the cruet.
Her dainty shoes of gravy hue,
Her hose, the jaded fancy tickles,
The shade is tender Irish stew,
Relieved with kraut and Indian pickles.
N.S.W.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.


£>
5\V
///
v%\
l»«
♦*Av
♦»y
if*
•it i
m
»*»
fiaa
m
l**A
m
♦iv
♦»a
»«*
•Ac
»♦
*5
•»*»
»
ft
«»'
l» <
♦?!*
»»!
i *
• i
l!«i
« i
»!;♦
!♦!•
I
>y.v
0
W
tP/
57
Mi
»>v
w
*•
eft
a
Why docs the
Square Tread
possess this shape ?
A long series of practical tests hare demonstrated that only a cover of
this particular shape can give the best results as regards wear.
The tread being tightly compressed to begin with, is still further com-
pressed when the cover is inflated, and therefore offers resistance to cuts.
When, however, a cut does occur—which is sometimes inevitable —it
can be effectually repaired with Michelin Mastic.
N.B.—Remember, it is essential not only to know the best shape of cover, but also to knew
how to preserve the tyre when it is on your car. The secret is to keep it always well inflated, and
frequently verify the pressure with a Michelin Pressure Tester.
Michelin Tyres and Accessories
can be obtained from all the Leading Garages.
ANZ. 18.
“THE LONE HAND ” for Good Stories and Bright Articles. Price 6d.
43*
-
v
N. 345
THE VERY LATEST!
The Last Word in Oil Tractors
is undoubtedly
£
MARSHALL.
99
OUR Principals (Messrs. Marshall Sons & Co., Ltd.)
have spent a huge sum of money to perfect and place
on the market
/
The Only Successful and Reliable Oil Tractor.
Many so-called Oil Tractors recently sold in this State are
now “out of commission” or filling up some gap in
The farm fence, but the “MARSHALL” is demon-
strating all over the World its claim to the title of
“The World’s Champion Oil Tractor.”
MADE m TWO SIZES—
Class E equals 16 ordinary farm-horse
power, 30 to 35 B.H.P.
Class F equals 32 ordinary farm-horse
power, 60 to 70 B.H.P.
Fitted with Two-speeds., Winding Drum, Awning, Plowing
Draw Bar, ire addition to Hauling Bar.
USES ORDINARY KEROSENE AS FUEL.
SEND FOR CATALOGUES.
CASH OR LIBERAL TERMS.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO. LTD.
The Engineers’ Depot, CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.


MAS!
AifiUUNDERS’
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER
XMAS!
i
FINE ART STATUETTE, Real
Bronze Finish. Height, 22jin.,
£3/13/6.
GIFTS FOR FVFRYBOD Y.
mm
?iO
4.///
r n ■ n'>
LJ
CARVED OAK BEDROOM
TIMEPIECE. 30-Hour Lever
Movement, Bevelled Glass,
8/6. Postage, extra.
GENT.’S TRAVELLING CONVENIENCE, fitted
with every convenience, 10/6.
MATCH STAND and ASH TRAY,
Pure Silver Plated, 4/6.
Nickel SHAV-
ING BRUSH,
Badger Bristles,
1/6, 1/9,
2/6, 3/6.
Thousands of Handsome, Handy, Prac-
tical Gifts are awaiting your selection at
A. Saunders’. Our free Xmas Gift Book
is full of helpful Gift suggestions for
everybody. Send for a copy—it’s yours
for the asking.
tymt/RT SET, with Bevelled Glass
bossed Hair Brush and Cloth Brush,
25/-
Mirror, Em-
Best Bristles,
BRUSH, Real Ebony, Sterling Silver
Bristles, 15/-
JMf
m.
r
GENT.’S MILITARY HAIR
BRUSHES, in Case, Solid
Ebony Backs, 12/6.
OPERA OR FIELD GLASSES, Mor-
occo Leather covered, well finished,
Enamel Frame, 30/-, case included.
T O B A C C O
POUCH, real
Otter Beaver,
Best Rubber
Lining. Silver
Shield, 10/6.
FINE ART STATUETTE. Real
Bronze Finish. Height, 22|in.,
£3/13/6.
SEWING COMPANION, containing 8 Articles,
Xylonite Handles. Complete in Velvet-lined
Case, 5/6.
807-817 George Street, Sydney
£Zoeli%
as
SB?
Cv
They Show Your Social Standing.
CIGARETTES
of DISTINCTION.
'"THERE is an atmosphere of refinement about “Winfred Cigarettes
1 lacking in all others; they stamp the smoker a man of quality
and taste “Winfred” Cigarettes are made specially for discriminating
smokers and their delightful charm and aroma Is due. to the high-class
quality ancl judicious blending of the tobaccos they contain.
io
for
6d.
CIGARETTES.
Plain or Gold Tipped.
Sole Manufacturers—
20
for
i /-
TO BE OBTAINED EVERYWHERE
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
ARDATH TOBACCO CO. LTD., LONDON.
BRITAIN’S GREATEBT HIGH-CLA--
CIGARETTE FACTORY.


BE GOOD TO HIM THIS XMAS
GIVE HIM A SPARKLET SYPHON
iL
StJfr,»iULTinJi: %TT
off/t -Ml lift V.'
W7r»i iii«a? i;; •,•»''<
t M Wf V,V «i i;
OU>7»» T * sm-rn' ;<\j
WJ.ll in *n* nin;;. '.t\ \ l
'ji/fti
M*
iii
g
*nri^n23;?2;a r -
Sj iVI* a "> "12 2 2
N
KSB#&i
is
r**~
J
w
#
r
IF you come to think of it, few Christmas presents
could be more welcome in our climate than a
Sparklet Syphon—at anything like the price. It is
so beautifully made and finished that it looks worth
ever so much more than the few shillings you pay
for it. And to the man who has one, it certainly
IS worth more.
It saves him money. It enables him to make a quart of delicious soda water for 2fd. —
all fresh and ready instantly, without the mess and trouble of powders and the risk of
awkward bottles. So when you give him a Sparklet Syphon, whether he lives in the
city or away in the burning back-blocks, you give him the means of making—at any
time—in any place—from any water supply—
COOL, REFRESHING DRINKS
ALL THROUGH THE SUMMER
So if you know any home that would be happier for this advantage, ask your Storekeeper
to show you a “B” Syphon at 4■/-, or a “C” Syphon at 6/6. We recommend the
“C” size—not because it is more expensive, but because it is more economical in use.
Whichever you buy, the friend you buy it for will remember you gratefully every hot day
next year —and for years after.
Is your old Syphon in working order ?
tf]T IF it isn’t, we want to put it right for you. A
* Sparklet Syphon has some india-rubber
wearing parts, and as rubber does not last for ever,
the Syphon wants new parts now and then. :: ::
This it especially the case when the Syphon has not been in
regular use during winter and spring.
Wears therefore offering: to every owner of a
disused Sparklet Syphon
New Wearing Parts Free of Charge.
“SPARKLET” WEARING PARTS.
n
2. Bulb Washer.
3. Tube Washer
If your Sparklet Syphon has been allowed to fall out of use,
these parts will enable you to put it right again. It is quite
easy, and full directions are enclosed.
Renew these parts when worn, and your Syphon will give
you perpetual satisfaction. A Sparklet Syphon is too use-
ful a thing to be allowed to be Idle.
CUT OUT THIS COUPON and post it on to us,
and we will send the wearing parts free of all cost.
FREE COUPON B
To
READ & CAMPBELL, LTD.,
40 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Please send me new Washers
g
and Pin for Sparklet Syphon,
bought of
about years ago.
Name
Address


HOW TO NEUTRALISE DANGEROUS
STOMACH ACIDS.
Few people besides physicians realise the
importance of keeping the food contents of
the stomach free from acid fermentation.
Healthy normal digestion cannot take place
while the delicate lining of the stomach is
being inflamed and distended by acid and
wind —the results of fermenting food in the
stomach. To secure perfect digestion, fer-
mentation must be stopped or prevented, and
the acid neutralised. For this purpose phy-
sicians usually recommend getting a little
bisurated magnesia from the chemist and
taking half a teaspoonful in a little hot or
cold water immediately after eating. They
recommend bisurated magnesia because it is
pleasant to take, has no disagreeable after
effects, and instantly stops fermentation,
neutralises the acid and makes the sour, acid
food bland, sweet and easily digested.
The regular use of bisurated magnesia—
be sure you get the bisurated, as other kinds
of magnesia are of little value —is an abso-
lute guarantee of healthy, normal digestion,
for it overcomes and prevents that acid con-
dition which alone is the cause of trouble.*
THE VERY BEST THING.
“Some time back I had a severe cold and violent
cough,” writes Mrs. Grace Harris, Ashbourne Street,
Woolston, Christchurch, N.Z. “I tried several so-
called remedies without obtaining relief. Noticing
an advertisement on Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy, I
purchased a bottle, and it gave me immediate relief.
I consider Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy the very
best thing I have ever come across.”*
TRY
DANIEL
1-A-W-F-O-l'D
PURE SCOTCH
w-m-s-K-Y.
THE CHOICE OF CONNOISSEURS.
POLITICAL POINTS
A KINDLY ACT.
Mr. Cook proposes to amend the Defence Act so
that youths who are the support of their mothers
will be exempt from compulsory training.
News item.
THE FRIEND OF ALL: “Yes, Jappy, old man,
I am so arranging matters down here that
young Australians who are helping their
mothers now will not be able to help them
when YOU come along."
JAPAN: “ Thanks, awfully."
Premier Peake (S.A.) has promised to
favorably consider the proposal to give an
extra salary of £lOO a year or so to the
Leader of the Opposition—another attempt
to prop up the rickety party-government
system.
Three members have been returned to the
N.S.W. Assembly without a fight: Treasurer
Cann, Solemn Lee, and Cohen of Petersham.
Cann and Lee are not opposed, as a matter
of habit; and the idea of doing anything
without Cohen is of course unthinkable to
the Holman Government.
Sample of party politics from the Tory
S.A. Register :
Mr. Andrew Fisher was a working miner before
he entered Parliament Mr. Joseph Cook was also
connected with the mining industry.
Still, real toil being the most respectable
thing in the world, Fisher has nothing to
complain of in the varied description.
Melbourne church congresses have of
late been pouring much melted butter over
Chief Policeman Sainsbury, a raid or two on
“betting shops” having called forth the drip-
ping. What one-eyed people these well-
meaning saints are ! They go delirious over
the “suppression” of one Ikey Moses, and
yet fight like the Devil against the Tote —
which would suppress a hundred Ikeys.
Wood, M.L.A., who is battling for the St.
George (N.S.W.) seat, put it this way to
Sydney Sun last Friday, after drawing the
salary that had been accruing to his credit
since the increase of payment to members :
I have determined not to use any portion of it
[the money] for my own private or personal benefit.
I propose to distribute the whole amount among
certain public charities. Naturally, should / have
the good fortune to represent St. George, the institu-
tions in that district will of necessity have first claim.
Some people would call it political bribery
and corruption, but such a thing is as far
from The Bulletin’s mind as it was from
Mr. Wood’s when he published the informa-
tion.
The right to occupy the Corio cushion in
the House of Yelps is presently to be con-
tested once more in the Labor interest by
A. T. Ozanne, who was M.11.R. for the three
years preceding last election. A ballot was
held the other day, and the figures were
extraordinary. Three candidates nominated
—Ozanne, sometime bookkeeper in the em-
ploy of the Board of Shirks, sacked when he
got the previous nomination, and afterwards
an orchardist; Joe Lyons, a State-school
teacher; and G. J. Mead, a teacher at Wes-
ley College. Ozanne polled well over 2000
votes, while Lyons got no more than four,
and Mead (who is president of the Political
Labor Council of Yic.) but two.
Joe Cook’s large capacity for making blun-
ders has got him into trouble in S. Aus.
That State has two (or more) Newland
families. One Newland, Simpson, belongs
to the woolly aristocracy ; the other was a
sleeping-car conductor before he got into
politics on the Labor side, a while ago. So
when a S. Australian Newland made hostile
remarks about the Government’s administra-
tion of the Northern Territory, Cook jumped
to the conclusion that, of course, it was the
Laborite, and snarled at him, as usual. Now
the Liberal wire-pullers are having a very
busy time smoothing the ruffled fleece of the
woolly Newland who actually made the re-
marks, and telling him and his friends that
Cook is really a much pleasanter man than
you would think.
What sort of a Speaker Johnson is—
Johnson is the gentleman who sat on a log
and woke up to find it an alligator—may be
judged by his treatment of Thomas during
the McGrath rumpus. This member, as
ladylike a one as there is on the Labor side
of the Reps., said: “We are agreed over here
that the Speaker has lost our confidence.”
For this “distinct reflection on the Chair”
Johnson called on him to “withdraw the
insult” ; and Thomas, having in effect told
Johnson that if he would stop cackling he
(Thomas) would apologise, was “named”
and passed out. But where was the “in-
sult” in the first place? Thomas is so firmly
satisfied Johnson has lost confidence that
he had already tabled a motion to that
effect, and this motion had been accepted,
and if it isn’t an insult to the Chair to move
that the Chair has lost confidence, how can
it be an insult to say the same thing?
“The Old Soldier” : According to a recent
Melbourne message :
Representations having been made to the Federal
Government that the erection of stables near Cen-
tennial Park and Victoria Barracks would tend to
depreciate the value of neighboring residences, the
Minister has ordered that no further steps be taken
until a thorough investigation has been made into
the expediency of building the stables somewhere
else.
What is there to investigate? The “neigh-
boring residences” are newly built on allot-
ments bought with the full knowledge that the
barracks were there, and that the site included
a great deal of vacant land, on which new
military buildings on a pretty large scale
might De put up at any time to accommo-
date the daily increasing military forces of
the Federation. But the local residents are
electors who vote in the constituency which
is represented by Willy Kelly. And in order,
apparently, that Kelly may not lose sup-
port, there is a likelihood of a useful de-
fence proposal being turned down. It is
the sort of thing that makes the unbiassed
onlooker very tired of the Party system.
The recent rioting in Wellington (M.L.),
which culminated in a more or less pitched
battle between strikers and mounted con-
stables, is likely to produce unexpected
effects. The special constables were mostly
cocky-farmers. At their first charge they
were repulsed by a shower of blue metal and
boards thrown between the horses’ legs.
Then, the supply of blue metal having given
out, the specials charged again. That sec-
ond charge has produced the revolution. The
most bitter anti-militarist who was knocked
endways in that rush of kicking horses and
swearing men realised that, with just a
little organisation, a little knowledge of how
to fight, the charge could have been turned
into a police rout. Hitherto the “Red
Federation” has been bitterly opposed to
compulsory military training. To-day it
realises that when every man is a trained
soldier, and the strike leaders are men who
understand the handling of soldiers, a mob
of mounted cocky-farmers will think twice
before they charge.
SHUTTING THE FAWNS HOT TO IHE
CHILDREN
Although applauding the action of the Federal
Treasurer, who was endeavoring to bring about a
consolidation of the State debts, his personal opinion
was that any . scheme which did not also provide for
the future commitments of the States was doomed
to failure. The unseemly scramble for money on
the London market constituted a scandal of which
Australians should be genuinely ashamed.
—Speaker at Manufacturers’ Conference.
Australia : “My sentiments, Bigjohn, and
I'd emphasise 'em by bolting and barring
the door!"
A fortnight ago President Yuan Shai Ivai
of China calmly dissolved the Opposition and
declared several hundred seats vacant. Last
week Joe Cook of Australia took a leaf out
of the old Chinaman’s book. He was anxious
to have a majority of one; and, by the cast-
ing vote of the Speaker, McGrath of Ballarat
was heaved out of the House for the
rest of the session for daring to “re-
flect” on the Speaker. So, unless a couple
of Liberals fall sick, Cook is safe to reach
recess without being forced to go to the
country he pretends he is struggling to face.
An Adelaide case shows the need of a
liberal and uniform divorce law. A husband
became insane in 1893, leaving his wife and
six young children unprovided for. The wife
had no redress whatever—probably wanted
none so long as she had any hope. At any
rate, she battled along till 1904, and then,
the husband’s case looking po better, she.
married again, and took the children to a
new home. By S.A. law, the first husband
is the aggrieved party; and, being at last
released from the asylum, .he has had no
difficulty in getting the divorce which was
all along denied to the wife. The Judge had to
rule that the wedding in 1904 was illegal,
but went out of his way to remark that it
was quite moral. Long confinement as a
lunatic is an accepted ground for divorce in
N.S.W., and why shouldn’t it be all
over Australia? In particular, why
should the children of that second marriage
be branded as illegitimate? Certainly they
can be promptly legitimatised by a re-
marriage of their parents, this being one of
the points on which South Australia is pro-
gressive.
Willy Watt has done the right thing in
bringing forward a bill to deal with steam-
ship cos. which dodge responsibility in re-
gard to injuries to passengers by covering
their tickets with 1379 “conditions,” setting
forth that the co. is not responsible for in-
juries to a passenger caused by the collapse
of the main deck, or the flooding of the
saloon bar, or the clumsiness, stupidity or
incompetence of the co.’s servants, the gene-
ral rottenness of the co.’s property,
any act of the Almighty’s (even though such
act is plainly a manifestation of Divine dis-
approval of the co.’s methods), or from dis-
comfort occasioned by the quality of the
company’s whisky, or the style of hairdress-
ing of its officers, servants or bosses, or
attacks by the company’s elephants, spots
before the eyes, or any other old thing which
may not happen to he mentioned, specified
or darkly adumbrated in the conditions here-
with set forth. The bill, to which refer-
ence was made before the foregoing sentence
got loose and bolted, purposes to put ship-
pins' cos. on the same footing as the railway
department. It sets forth that any contract
by which the co. is relieved from liability for
loss or damage caused by any brand of
negligence shall be illegal, and a penalty of
£lOO is mentioned in connection with any
attempt on the part of a co. to dodge it’s
natural obligations in the old way.
London Morning Post provides some
knowledgable comment (29/9/’l3i in n
review of B. R. Wise’s book on the making
of the Australian Commonwealth— comment
winch is curiously apposite just now, when
the public sliming of G. H. Reid seems
to be everybody’s business. For example •
The detached judgment of the future will mn
elude without a doubt that George Reid’s part ? n
the Federal movement was not in any real sense s
guiding one, but rather that of a keen, able noli
tieian swimming always with the current. p
Of Wise himself the paper truly says:—
He managed to concentrate on himself all the
hostility of the Freetrade, Anti-Union party Th»
hostility was sufficient to keep him from a share in
administering the Union in which he had taken so
brilliant a part. Federal public life was barred to
him, while there was a welcome offered to men who
had “boxed the compass’’ in a series of bewildering
changes of political attitudes. g
Since taking over the job of Attorney-
General in Westralia, two years ago, Tommy
Walker, formerly of N. S. Wales, has released
74 prisoners serving long sentences"
Probably Tommy knows what a saint
of 50 the sinner of 30 may be; all the
same, there is something wrong with a
system under which the community
insists on the public trial of a man
and then permits the results of that
trial to be secretly reviewed and upset
by a party politician whom it wouldn’t
perhaps trust with even a police magis-
trate’s job.
“William Street’s” note of concern
The poll for the N.S.W. State elections has been
fixed for a Saturday, and Dan Levy is worrving about
it. His Darlinghurst seat is being contested by
Frank Foster, who was formerly Labor M.P. for
Armidale. The Darlinghurst constituency is divided
into two parts. On the top of the hill is Darling-
hurst proper. Levy’s stronghold ; down the hill is the
top end of Woolloomooloo, where the Labor vote pre-
dominates. Potts Point is in Darlinghurst, and is
known as the New Jerusalem, owing to the fact that
Moses and Rebecca there do congregate—to the
number, it .is said, of. about 2000. And as
Saturday is-the Jewish Sabbath, to make Daniel safe
the Jewish community will have to break the Mosaic
law. And Dan is not too sure that they will, particu-
larly as there is nothing tremendous to be gained by
the fracture.
The Holman Government (N.S.W.) is
still busy chasing over the country in motor-
cars and promising railways at the rate of
about a million a day. If Ministers are
sane, they know quite well that nine-tenths
of the promises are futile; but as long as
the hook will land the fish on December 6, it
is all right. On June 30, the date of the
Public Works annual report, 1233 miles of
new railway had been authorised. Of that
lot lines totalling 553 miles had not been so
much as started ; and the sections covering
the other 680 miles were mostly just dawd-
ling along. On the Forbes-Stockinbingal
line, for instance, the work had been played
with for 18 months ; and at the same rate of
going the job wouldn’t be finished for
years. Yet, on top of all that, the Govern-
ment fired up a score more or less of railway
bills last session, and is baiting the country
voter with dozens of other promised lines;
and meantime there is a hollow sound in the
Treasury. Apart from the demoralisation of
the country through this form of political
bribery, the people suffer because, so long
as works are not completed, they bring in
no revenue, and the policy of dawdling over
a host of works means a shameful waste of
interest- —which, of course, the public has to
make good by taxation.
THE LIFEBUOY.
HOLMAN : “Now, I wonder if anybody II
notice that I never discovered this till I
was drowning!"
It has been put in different ways, but
Senator Rae’s is the most different to date:
Has the attention of the acting-leader of the
Senate been called to the conduct which took place
in the city of Melbourne last night, when a gang
political ruffians bludgeoned a Loan Bill through the
House of Representatives? *
The President said the hon. Senator was not
entitled to put a question in that form, so
Rae called it back to see what was wrong
with it.
OUR GREATEST FOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Argus, anxiously discussing the idea of its
good friend John Madden being, made Governor of
the State, points out some dreadful possibilities.
“The advocacy of the appointment of colonial Gover-
nors has behind it the same shoddy, demagogic crowd
as urged the hauling down of the Union Jack in the
’6o’s. It is this fact that makes the movement sus-
pect and significant. It is a cut-the-painter policy
in instalments.”
We see him walking in the street,
The Governor by Bull provided.
His linen’s fine, his boots are neat,
His taste in hats is quite decided.
But who would think to see him thus,
Or hear him talking platitudes
When lauding Jones, or laying stones,
That he a bulwark is of thrones—-
That on such harmless elder dudes
The Empire’s unity depends ?
But certainly it does, dear friends.
With cocked hat on his head he goes
To join in banquets and harangues.
He’s melancholy, touched with “Joes,”
Or torn by fierce dyspeptic pangs;
But bravely there he airs his jokes,
Nor drops a hint of fate’s decrees —
A simple wight whose wondrous might
Saves empires dying in the night;
A man of potent mysteries!
The Argus says that this is so,
And Argus editors must know.
If we agree to part with him,
And set up in his lofty place
An image of our making grim,
Our fate is fixed, and short our grace.
John Madden’s an imposing man,
A marvel, too, at talking guff;
But he won’t do. Australians who
Have got the truer, keener view
Insist upon imported stuff.
Our sons are knaves and fools ; we pray
“God save us from ourselves for aye ! ”
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


For all Homes
For all Climates
** RONISCH PIANO
a*»K. S'g
W
»
w. a t
m
%
<JK
I he true test of a piano lies in its power
and musical qualities under the most try-
ing climatic conditions. The wonderful
durability and wear-resisting- features of
o
The Ronisch Piano
are due to its construction. Men of lono-
experience in high-grade piano building are
employed, and not a particle of un-
sound timber or unseasoned timber is used.
FOR LOVERS OF ARTISTIC TONE QUALITY
As a result of extreme care in every
detail of modern methods of construc-
tion and the excellence of workman-
ship and materials, the RONISCH
PIANO will remain musically per-
fect for many years.
The RONISCH is a highly artistic
instrument —a piano which has coveted
places in leading musical institutions,
schools and colleges of music, and
in the homes of celebrated pianists.
We have a fine range of RONISCH
PIANOS, including Grand and Up-
right Grands, ordinary Uprights, and
the exquisite RONISCH-CLAVIOLA
COMBINATION PIANOS. You are
invited to visit our Show Rooms and
inspect our RONISCH PIANOS.
Catalogues and price lists post free
if unable to call.
We sell on Easy Terms and allow full
value on old pianos taken in part payment
h
338 George St., Sydney
And at Newcastle, Lismore,
Brisbane, Toowoomba,
dfh
« i
a/s;
EMM)
Leviathan Dressed
from Top to Toe
70/-
FOR
COMPLETE.
A Fine Mail Order Offer.
FOR Seventy Shilling’s a complete
outfit Suit, Shirt, Hat, Tie and
S° x all thoroughly well made,
all good and dependable, all matching
and in perfect taste. It's an offer no
man can afford to overlook.
THE SUIT is our famous Mail Order,
Suffer a<^e '^°"^ easure 52|6
■~~a Suit faultlessly tailored, perfect
t v? g i’ an( * guaranteed to a but-
tonhole. (Patterns and Measurement
Porms Post Free.)
HE HAT is a “Konfidence” Hard or
kott Felt, a make obtainable only
at the Leviathan. In any required
HE SHIRT is also a “Konfidence”
uue, our own special make, with
stiff or gauntlet cuffs, in any new
design.
THE TIE and SOX are of first quality,
and all colorings are available.
NOTE.
If the Shirt is not required
deduct 4/6. If the Hat is
not needed deduct 10/6. Or if the Tie
and Sox are not to be included, 2/6
WE PAY FREIGHT on all
orders to Any Address in
Australia.
OUR CATALOGUE is Post
Free. You ought to have
a copy.
Corner Swanston 8 Bourke Sts., Melbourne
••
fd
h
fdh
PRISM
BINOCULARS.
REMAIN UNRIVALLED for
riechanical and Optical Perfection.
FOR THE
Races —Theatre —-
Holiday Trips, etc.,
You Will Need a Good Glass.
Before deciding; on a purchase be sure and see the New
Zeiss Models with Centre Focussing Screw.
MAXinUM LIGHT.
PERFECT DEFINITION.
Write to your Optician for Illustrated Descriptive Booklet.
Reputable Opticians will not try to substi-
tute another Glass when asked for ZEISS.


GREAT WOMAN’S REMEDY.
WEAKNESS AND POOR BLOOD
CAUSED MUCH SUFFERING FROM
GIRLHOOD TO WOMANHOOD.
SYDNEY WOMAN’S STORY.
In the case of Mrs. Martha Simmons, of
40 Cove Street, Balmain. Sydney, whose
letter appears below, another illustration is
given of the wonderful properties of Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root
Pills as a great
Woman’s Remedy. Bili-
ous attacks and weak-
ness generally in her
case were but the symp-
toms of other complaints
peculiar ,to women.
Many women have found
in Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills just the same
effective remedy that
Mrs. Simmons did. who
says in her last letter.
“In my teens I suf-
fered very badly from
bilious attacks.
blood was very poor, my
whole system b^ cal “ e
completely run ao . wa ’
and on many occasions
I was so weak that ,
Mrs. Martha Simmons.
(From a 'photo.')
had to be supported home by my sc h t 0
mates. As I grew older I did not seem
overcome my weakness, and 1 was m w
state of health for a long time. Penodicai
headaches, bilious attacks and cons P
were my constant ailments. I f; v e,
medicines a fair trial, but I did not
any permanent relief. The salvation .* t
life, was Dr. Morse’s Indian Root 1 m -
was wonderful how they relieved me ot Dm
ous attacks. They put life into m *
regulated my system, and I gradual^kpfithv
stronger until I became a perfectly healtnj
woman. I still use Dr. Morse s Indian Root
Pills occasionally, and heartily rec j . fps _.
them to everybody. You may use tbis
timonial just as you like for publica
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Absolutely Pure.
No Preservatives.
E. RESCH’S LIMITED , Brewer by Appoint-
ment to his Excellency the Governor-General.
Brewery and Offices * Dowling Street, Redfern, Sydney
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
When Those Cane Chair Seats Wear Out.
Cane Seats wear through long before the frame of the chair is worn out. Fix a new
your chairs will be equal to new.
PIONEER
99
Leather Chair Seats
look well, wear well, and last a lifetime. Can be fixed by anyone in a few minutes ■sTien
PRICE: 14 to 16 inches diameter, 2/- For larger sizes add fot, each ext a a ' ccording
other than Circular, send paper pattern of shape with order. Postage 1/
to distance. Ask your Storekeeper, or write direct to —
IWICI & SON LTD.,
Pioneer Works,
117 York Street, SYDNEY-
SPORTING
NOTIONS
“Snaffle” : In support of the Totalisator, a
calculation has been made as to how the books came
out over Posinatus. There were 233 horses entered,
dwindling down to 20. Betting started before the
acceptances were in; Ikey’s harvest began with the
weights. Duke Foote was backed heavily as low as
4 to 1. He was scratched. Ike received at least
£5O on scratched horses for every £lOO he would,
under any circumstances, have finally to pay out.
Take a £5OO book laid all round the field at market
odds. Deduct the £33 staked on Posinatus, and
the £5OO paid out over him, and it will be found
that the bookie got £944 for his £5OO. The profit
of a man with a £5OOO book would be £4440.
Then you have to consider the likely contingency
that Posinatus was not laid at all. Now take a ride
out to Sol Green’s magnificent Stud Farm at Shipley,
Warrnambool, and remember how he nearly secured
the “Leviathan” corner in Bourlce-street. That's
where the public’s money goes—when Ike doesn’t put
it into far worse things.
• Somebody who backed some other horse
has discovered that P-o-s-i-n-a-t-u-s spells “Pains to
us.”
* * * *
“C. O’H.” : Another blow at the good old
superstition that the purpose of racing is to “im-
prove the breed of horses.” The Melbourne Cup
winner this year is a gelding. If the V.R.C., and
the A.J.C., and similar inflated bodies really be-
lieved in the yarn about improving the breed, they
would never allow equine eunuchs to compete for the
prizes.
* * * *
“0.K.” : There’s a story of how Posinatus
for the Melbourne Cup was tipped to the local
police before the geegee was foaled, or soon after-
wards. It happened at the time of the raids on the
fortune-tellers. The police, chaffing the sorceress
whom they had just taken into custody, asked her to
tip some winners, and she replied that no turf
events of the near future had been revealed to her,
but she had foreseen the winner of the Cup for
1913. Its name would be Posinatus. This story
was told before the gee in question got home. I
heard the yarn and can swear to its previousness.
The probable explanation is that at the time of the
raid Poseidon and Positano were names of daily
note, and the sorceress made a blind dash at some
similar word. The detective on the job then kept
a careless recollection of the incident, and was
recently struck by the idea that Posinatus must
have been the verj r name the “clairvoyante” had told
him. But whether the lady said Posinatus, or
merely something like it, others in the “futurity”
line of business can reckon on a lively demand for
information re future Melbourne Cups.
A bygone coup that went wrong—The
Highborn one—was recalled by Belove’s Cup per-
formance. Decent prads both, one was set to carry
fist. 81b., the other 6st. 131 b. Both were ignored
by the public and overlooked by press touts, but so
steadily backed by a select few that they started at
“medium” prices. One had the bad luck to en-
counter the mighty Carbine, the other, ran against
the lightly-weighted and eccentric but capable Pos-
inatus, favored by the weather, and handled by a
lad who made the race to suit his mount. And
both missed the big prize by just three-quarters of a
length. # #
The Westralian Turf Club’s November
meeting at Perth on Saturday saw a couple of nice
dividends paid by the Tote. When Lord Flavus won
the November Handicap his backers drew £l6 135.,
while those who planked their worldly wealth on
Lucky Beggar for the Stewards’ Handicap went home
delighted with £29 10s. This writer has not heard
of the bookie laying odds like these; but on the
testimony of the bookmaker (who ought to know)
and the parsons (who know everything) the book-
maker is far more moral than the Tote. He doesn’t
encourage people to risk their money by paying
tong odds.
J. E. O’Brien is a mighty purchaser of
neddies before the Lord. Consider some of his buy-
ings. Beragoon, winner of both Derbvs, bought as a
yearling for 700 guineas, has already returned
£11,720 in prize money. Malt King was grabbed
as a yearling for 310 guineas, and the handsome
brute has brought in £12,613 in prizes. Great is
the art of successful buying.
The bone of contention pt the Prince
Alfred (Svdnev) Yacht Club's handicap last Satur-
day was tfip Rawhiti Cup. Sever s' t "rted > . Rawhiti
being the scratch boat and Sunbeam th" limit, with
25min. allowance. Hardly had the scratch boat got
away when the wind swung round, and blew abso-
lutely in favor of the long-start lighter yachts Sun-
beam’s handicap thus enabled her to lead over most
of the course. At the Pile Light, however, Aoma,
which had got in front, had 12sec. advantage This
was maintained to Bradley’s Head, where the Sun-
beam came with a rush, once more got in front, and
stayed there till the finish. Aoma (24min.) was
beaten by one second ; and Culwulla 111., finishing
third, was the only one of the rearguard to secure a
place.
The Sydney Flying Squadron blew over
its affair in two beats and a final, and the second
one and the final were exciting. The first was a
dead-easy win for Australian, which ran right
through the fleet and beat everything. The only boat
to stand up to the flier was Quibree, which
filled second place. Arline led the second heat
until off Taylor Bay, where Nimrod, invisible under
its desert of canvas, went to the front and won by
30sec. The first five of each heat competed in the
final. The wind had become very fluky, and the positions
changed so rapidly it was hard to keen pace with
them. At one time Australian bolted to the front;
then Golding got ahead, to give place very quickly
to Nimrod, which was being forced along in great
stvle. Every rag that could be crowded on was
shaken out, and the excitement became intense. But
Nimrod maintained the lead, chased by Golding
(32sec.), with Australian and Kismet leading the
rest. In the rush for ho->e Golding was passed by
Kismet and Australian, w lich went after Nimrod —•
a hopeless task, and they finished in that order.
* * * *
After a glorious defeat of brother Jim at
Ulmarra Regatta (N.S.W.), the whole Paddon family
came to light at the Coraki turn-out. James himself
was just beaten by Charles Towns, to whom he con-
ceded lOsec. in two miles. G. Paddon raked in the
Gladstone Skiffs, and F. Paddon and W. of that ilk
rowed gamely but vainly in the other events of the
day. Looks’ as though there are possibilities of a
Paddon dynasty.
N.S.W. League of Wheelmen is in a very
explosive state and liable to blow up at any moment.
The rank and file charge the council with apathy,
ignorance and utter carelessness as to the welfare
of professional cycling, which it declares is almost
dead. The council woke up, rubbed its eves, ant J
with a flourish of trumpets announced it would put
on a carnival, With a prize list worth £35. The
riders were too pained to speak at first, but. when
they recovered the power of speech they spoke bitterly
and to the point. The council is now clawing wildly
at Yankee sports promoter J. M. Chapman with a
view to a visit to see if he can resurrect the appar-
ently dying sport. Chapman is said to be vvilhng
and to be fluting eloquently about a six-days race
and a fine string of international wheelmen. Mean-
while the League is still liable to blow up.
* * * *
That United States athletic team left
'Frisco last Tuesday in thoroughly characteristic
Yankee style. Templeton, one of the stars of the
bundle, was “smuggled” aboard to prevent him
being kidnapped by the Stanford Leland University
sporting chiefs, who felt they could not spare him.
It’s an awful reputation to have to live up to, and
if he gets knocked over he will have a terrible dis-
tance to fall. These bean-eaters will riot away three
weeks in the Commonwealth, and then flee on, seek-
ing other worlds to conquer.
* * * *
The opening of the fifth round of Sydney
First-Grade Cricket was a mighty triumph for the
batsmen, headed by Bardsley, of Glebe, who carried
his bat for 201 in spite of the bowlers of Central
Cumberland. Moore, of North Sydney, lifted 136
heavenward before he fell l.b.w to Wall. Tozer, of
University, smacked 126, and his clubmate Gregg
backed him up with 101 ; and Lowe, of Middle
Harbor, left 132 on the board when he started for
the pavilion. In spite of Bardsley’s double century,
Glebe did not make the biggest score of the day.
North Svdnev accomplished that by smiting the
Balmain "bowling for 419 at the expense of seven
wickets. Glebe came next with 404 for seven
sticks. Sydney staggered humanity by bashing the
bowlers of Gordon for 318 for eight wickets.
University rushed up 307, and then took
four Petersham wickets for 40. . Middle Harbor
accumulated 296 off the Waverley bowling, and then
got a couple of men out for 53. Western Suburbs
was dismissed by Paddington for 163, which then
lifted 124 for the loss of four wickets. The best of
the trundlers were Newton, of Waverley, who took
four Middle Harbor sticks for 29 ; and Dive, of
Western Suburbs, who laid out four Paddington bats-
men for 34—that is to say, he took all the wickets
that fell during the innings for that insignificant
total. From Dive to Sedgers, of Petersham, with
his four University wickets for 70, is a mighty drop,
equalled only by that from Sedgers to O’Connor, of
Waverley, who retired four Middle Harbor men for
100. It was a funereal day for bowlers, even the
reliable and polished Folkard, of Balmain, taking
only two for 112.
Jerry Jerome, in the last rounds of his fight
with Les O' Donnell, tries to convince “fight
fans ” that he loves astronomy.
There was a sound of excitement in
Parramatta (N.S.W.) on Friday night about nine
o’clock when the starter despatched 20 motor-cyclists
on a 24-hours’ Reliability Test. The course was
from Parramatta via Hartley to Bathurst, thence
to Sofala and Hill End, and back to Parra-
matta via Mudgee, Capertee and Wallera-
wang, a total distance of 373 miles. The moon
was full and the sky absolutely clear, and the
whole crowd scaled the mountains and had an excel-
lent run right through to the old goldfield, where
the first division arrived at 7.54 Saturday morning.
Although a few points had been lost, the field was
on time; and it was not till Wallerawang was
reached on the return journey that five riders were
found to be behind. Two machines had smashed
up between Mudgee and ’Wang, one with a broken
wheel and the other with a fractured fork. The first
rider to reach Parramatta was Readford, at 8.44
Saturday night. Six others were on schedule, but
up to the time of writing the points had apparently
not been calculated, as no results had been issued as
regards the reliability.
The Australian Board of Cricket Control
made itself a gun last week, when the delegates
decided that there shall be a manager and a
treasurer with every Australian team visiting Eng-
land and elsewhere; also that they shall be ap-
pointed by and responsible to the Board only. It
confirms the attitude taken up by the Board last
year, and anticipates any kicking over the traces by
descendants of the Sorry Six. The Six stated that
the manager must be appointed by the “players” ;
the Board rises to affirm that he shall not, and the
players can like it or lump it. The constitution was
also altered to prohibit the touring of Australian
teams without the Board’s hall-mark —which in the
light of recent developments was a very necessary
step. The unpleasant conduct of some of the last
XI in England has moved the Board to reserve unto
itself the right to dispense with any player for other
reasons than those connected with cricket. The selec-
tion committee now consists of Clem Hill (S.A.), E.
E. Bean (Vic.) and Dr. Poidevin (N.S.W.).
» * * •
Clem Hill is on the warpath again. Re-
cently he was appointed a stipendiary steward to
keep racing in South Aus. wholesome and straight.
When a match started Hill batted for his side, but
the following Saturday he had to attend to the
morals of the geegee, and he wrote asking that a
substitute be sent into the field for him. His club
ignored the request, and fielded one man short. This
sent the peppery Hill into a blue passion, and he
has demanded an apology from the club under threat
of resignation. The club is tying low. It is hard to
see how Hill is going to play cricket and watch
horse-racing too ; and as cricket is bound to be the
one to be dropped overboard, perhaps the club would
sooner get it over and done with.
At its monthly meeting this week N.S.W.
Cricket Association was hit between the eyes by an
application from the Baseball Association that the
grade cricket matches should be postponed on Janu-
ary 3 to allow the cricketers to watch the inter-
national game of baseball between N.S.W. and the
U.S A. Although several members spoke strongly in
favor of obliging the baseballers, a motion to the
effect that the request be turned down was carried
by 12 votes to eight.
* * * *
This coming Saturday will see Melbourne
make an original burst by holding a motor-car race
on Richmond racecourse. There will be some motor-
bike events also, but the great attraction is to be a
three-heat struggle for a purse of £lOOO between
R. Jeff kins, who has raced in America and Europe,
and 1). Campbell, an Australian, who has given
splendid demonstrations at home. Jeffkins will urge
a 120-h.p. car which arrived from the U.S.A. only
last week, and has drawn an interested crowd when-
ever it has stopped for a drink. Campbell will use
the 40-h.p. Vinot with which he has favored Mel-
bourne with excellent demonstrations over the same
track. The question of whether the Richmond course
is suitable for car-racing seems to depend upon the
verdict of Jeffkins ; and as he is going to race over
it, it is presumably, in his opinion, good enough.
Saturday was an afternoon of kick-offs in
Melbourne. The combined yachting clubs’ opening
demonstration drew a big crowd to St. Kilda pier.
Half an hour before the fun started, a grey cloud of
rain descended softly on the city and the waters;
but just as people were starting homeward the sun-
shine burst out once more. Unfortunately, with the
rain went the wind, so the yachts floated lazily on
the glassy water, their sails occasionally flapping.
Only the auxiliary yachts could move ; the rest were
becalmed far and near, some off Williamstown, some
off St. Kilda, others all over the place. The motor
launches had a busy time towing them home. Down
at Port Melbourne the swimmers were also opening
the season. The male and female clubs had joined
hands for the occasion, and there was much bunting
hanging listless in the stagnant air. The feature of
the show was “the Dreadnought,” a large punt got
up to represent a warship, with guns and funnels
complete. Duck-egg shells were fired to the accom-
paniment of hungers and other fireworks; when the
shells floated ashore they were found to be in-
scribed with compliments to the local residents who
had in the past assisted the clubs. There was music,
swimming for the youngsters, footraces for men and
hobble-skirt steeplechases for ladies along the sands,
toys for the children, drinks for the men, and re-
freshments for everybody.
#*, * *
There was an awful rumor round Sydney
that Colonel Ryrie, M.ILR., the gentleman who eats
a Labor member every morning before breakfast and.
fights six of them at a time when he is feeling fresh,
had been appointed referee at Sydney’s new Stadium
at Newtown. However, it turns out to be a base
falsehood. The Colonel will not officiate. The mantle
has fallen on the shoulders of Harry Beckett, who
beat him in the ring in November, 1890. Although
Ryrie is said to have been the terror of his district,
there were men who could make mincemeat of him.
In 1891, or thereabouts, when he was well over
12st. in weight, he met a little lOst. 81b. chap
named Burke; and although the fox-terrier couldn’t
knock out the bull, the next time Ryrie talks fight
in the House, the hon. the Speaker might ask him
for a truthful account of how he felt after that dis-
turbance.
* * * ♦
There have before now been sensational
skedaddles by boxers out of matches they were not
confident about; but Willie Ritchie's sudden “bunk”
out of the fight with Freddie Welsh at Vancouver
seems to have been a record. Ritchie was not anxious
to fight for his championship, and after the match
was made tried repeatedly to get it altered to a
15-round no-decision affair. But Welsh wanted the
championship, and stuck to the terms of the agree-
ment. Ritchie was to receive $15,000, win, lose or
draw. As the fight had to be postponed owing to
Welsh having sprained an ankle, Ritchie got $lOOO
compensation for the delay. He held half the
moving-picture rights, and his choice of referee had
been conceded. Later on, he is said to have de-
manded half the profits made by selling cigars, ad-
vertising space and drinks in the stadium —worth,
roughly, another $lOOO. This the management re-
fused. Whether this refusal got on his nerves no
one knows; all that is certain is that he and his
manager stole quietly away the same, night on the
Seattle boat en route for ’Frisco. He was inter-
cepted at Seattle by one of the promoters, who had
gone by train, but he declined to carry out his
battle. His excuse was that the arranging of the
terms had worried him so much he could not settle
down to training, but he would come back later
on. The promoter opined he wouldn’t get the chance.
The laste straw was when he cancelled his cheque
for £2500 put up as a guarantee of good faith. The
promoters in future will take only cheques certified
to by the bank on which they are drawn. Appar-
ently the chief end of Ritchie is to dodge fighting
Freddie Welsh.
* * * »
In Paris they are calling Jack Johnson
“the pious young man.” The troublous darkie is
now threatening to hold a series of elimination con-
tests to decide who is worthy of the honor of being
punched to mush by himself. What does not seem
to occur to Johnson is that he is not getting any
younger, neither is he leading altogether the simple
life, and that it might be as well if he did some-
thing to ascertain he is still the mighty bruiser he
was in the days arear. Another nigger that fate has
not been over-kind to of late is Samuel Langford.
The decision of the New York Boxing Commission
to allow no bouts between black and white boxers
in its territory has made it impossible for him to
earn a living in Yankeeland’s greatest city. The
only negro fighter that has any reasonable show
against him is Joe Jeannette —and he can’t fight
Jeannette always. Their last battle was the ninth.
And when he carved up a hopeless giant named John
Lester Johnson, the papers howled “butchery.” It
does seem to have been a miserable affair. John
Lester Johnson deliberately sprinted round the ring,
with Langford in full pursuit. He had lapped it
three times when Langford hit him in the middle
of the back, right on the spine, and down went
Johnson for nine. Then he scrambled up and bolted
again, but Langford was ready and smashed him on
exactly the same spot and sent him down again.
Then the referee snorted that it was a fight, not a
footrace, and gave Langford the decision. Langford
struck only two blows, and for that received £5OO,
or, roughly, £lOO. How would the same hard-
fighting gentleman have roared with fury at the in-
sult had he been asked to fight for £lOO in Aus-
tralia? The chances are that he will move on to
Paris, where they seem to be very partial to the
negro fighter. He will probably be rejoined there
by Samuel McVea, the Home Department having
notified this ebony Hercules that he will be granted
no further extension (he has already had three) of
his permit to stay in Australia.
At Brisbane on Saturday night fortune
smiled on Waldemar Holberg for the first time since
he landed in Australia, and he overthrew Ted Porter
a recent arrival from Maoriland. Porter’s corner skied
the towel of surrender in the eighth round, when it
was obvious the Maorilander had no possible hope
At the Baker Stadium in Melbourne Eddie Newhouse
was given the verdict over Alf Spenceley after 20
very mixed rounds. Fullalove, the referee, came in
for a hostile demonstration. He has had so much of
this sort of thing lately that he is said to contem-
plate changing his name to Fullup. Next Saturday
week will see the opening of the new Olympia
Stadium at Newtown, Sydney, when there will be a
disturbance between Dave Smith and Les O’Donnell.
The riot at the Baker temple in Sydney will be
between Herbert McCoy and Pal Brown. The popu-
lar impression is that McCoy is in for a hiding.
* * * *
Eddie McGoorty, the Yankee middleweight
boxer who polished Smith off in half a round when
they met in New York, left ’Frisco for Sydney on
Tuesday last. He and Dave Smith were to have
supplied an international battle at Sydney Stadium
for Boxing Day. But Smith, flushed with his recent
success apparently, made his price so high that
Baker abandoned the idea. Smith did zhe same
thing when the Mclnstoush matched him with
Clabby, and the scrap fell through. Another battle,
preceded by quite a Yankee amount of haggling, was
the Stone-Wells disturbance for November 29. Stone
demanded that Wells should make 9st. 91b. at 2
p.m. the day of the fight. Wells refused to sink
below 9st. 111 b., and after a fearsome argument
Baker remarked coldly he had taken a sudden dislike
to the match, and called a halt. Then both parties
hurriedly compromised on 9st. 101 b. at 1 a.m. the
day of the dancing match. The Jew has been having
a great innings of late, and on that night the
oppressed Gentile will be able to sit back and sigh
with satisfaction at the sight of two of the Chosen
knocking Gehenna out of each other. Quite apart from
that, it should be a wildly interesting scrap. Neither
are hard punchers, but in that respect Wells has some-
what the advantage. On the other hand, there is
more than a suspicion that neither thrive much on
punishment, but there is also a superstition that
Stone can digest more of that food than Wells. It'
Stone wins he will have a dazzling career opened up
to him. If Wells goes under, it will be an unmiti-
gated disaster to him, following on the defeat by
Mehegan.
* * * *
The fact that he had already been de-
feated twice by Les O’Donnell did not inspire Jerry
Jerome to deeds of derring-do at Sydney Stadium
on Saturday night. Jerry, in addition to his usual
ring garb, wore a distinctly anxious expression. He
indulged in no humorous interludes. He settled
down to business from the sound of the gong, and
tried hard for a knock-out in the shortest possible
time. His swings were terrific; but O’Donnell was
seldom there, and when he was he caught them on
his gloves and arms. , But, - all the same, for the
first seven rounds Jeremiah piled up points and was
distinctly leading. Then O’Donnell stood up straight,
dropped' his crouch for good, and began to spear
the prophet with a quick straight left. It landed
again and again seventy-times-seven on the mouth
and chin of Jeremiah, and the aperture became a
wreck. It spoilt Jerome’s aim and caused his blows
to go wild. Then his eyes began to swell. Never-
theless, Jeremiah once sent the adversary reeling to
the ropes, and but for the sounding of the gong the
fight had ended right there. Thereafter Jerry became
so dazpd that twice he made for his rival's corner.
His strength seemed to leave him, and he had diffi-
culty in towing his feet round after him. In the
16th he suddenly flashed out and made O’Donnell
hang on for safety ; but it was only a flash in the
pan, and after it he faded more than ever. He was
almost gone in the 19th, but got to his corner, and
when he came out for the final it was obvious that
a very slight one would finish him. That sustained
storm of wallops on the mouth and chin had done
their work. A straight left sent him down for six,
and then he came up again. O’Donnell charged.
Jerry went down on all fours. The referee declared
he had fallen without being hit, and disqualified him
on the spot. The truth was Jerry didn’t know
whether he was hit or not. His tail was right down,
and he was done to the last turn. He knew that if
he had not been hit he was just going to be, and
to his aboriginal simplicity the difference was un-
distinguishable.


WHY DON’T YOU LEARN
TO OSE YOUR HANDS?
A
»■>
You fully realise the importance of know-
ing how to defend yourself. Because self-
preservation is part and parcel of every form
of life.
You ought to do something to develop your
natural power. Why not learn to box —learn
to use your hands to the best advantage?
Otherwise the time will surely come when
you will bitterly repent your indecision.
Perhaps it may be a matter of life and
death, then—you’ll wish in vain.
There’s no excuse for you not knowing how
to box. I can teach you in your own home.
I TEACH BOXING
BY POST.
I thoroughly explain the most serviceable
moves known to Ringcraft. The best moves
of the most famous living boxers will form
part of your instruction. If you were
entangled in a mix-up, what a big advantage
you’d have —what confidence you’d have, and
that’s half the battle. Here is a letter from
one pupil:—
“I am getting along splendidly with
my boxing. I am beginning to feel sure
of myself. It is a grand pastime.”
H.E.W., Nimbin, N.S.W.
See how lie's building up confidence, because he knows how. You ought to learn “how” too.
Write for m\ 3-,-page booklet, Scientific Foxing in Your Home,” which describes niv methods, and
gives cost of tuition. It s worth having. Send three penny stamps for postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
272 BELMONT BUILDINGS, SYDNEY.
Cigars for Your
Friends
at Xmas !
To the man who smokes
there is no present so
acceptable as a box of
good cigars. Therefore,
if you wish to send your
friend a little festive
gift, you should cer-
tainly write for a free
copy of my new illus-
trated catalog, entitled
“A Discriminating
Smoker’s Guide.”
My “Three Crown”
Manila Cigars and
Cheroots are of mild
flavor and rare quality.
No. 1 Cheroot
(as illustrated),
In boxes of s'o’s.
14/-; 27/6 per 100.
No. 2 Cheroot
In boxes of 100, 21 /-
PERLAS.—In boxes of
25’s, 6/-
HIGH LIE E.—ln
boxes of 50 ’s, 24/-
per 100.
REINA VICTORIAS.—
..In boxes of 100, 24/-
P E R F E CTOS—In
boxes of 25’s, 10/-
Postage extra.
I
Actual Size.
a n. soLonoN,
“CIGAR EXPERT,”
173 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
as
BEST RESULTS
ASSURED ON
SHELL’
BENZINE.
The British Imperial Oil Co. Ltd.
WHAT IS
J
r
Golcryst is made from Epsom Salts,
Senna, Sarsaparilla, Dandelion, Liq-
uorice and Ginger. That seems a
good combination of useful medi-
cines for Constipation, Rheumatism,
Impure Blood, Pimples, Boils,
Stomach and Liver Troubles.
So popular has this remedy become in
Australia that Golcryst may be regarded
as the National Aperient.
Packets 3d., 6d. & 1J-
If you cannot obtain locally, write to
the Proprietors,
Rocke, Tompsitt § Co.,
MELBOURNE,
FOR A FREE SAMPLE PACKET. [1
KRUPP
MINING,
ORE TREATMENT
and
INDUSTRIAL
MACHINERY.
CEMENT WORKS, PHOSPHATE WORKS,
ROLLING MILLS, SUGAR MILLS, RUB-
BER WORKS, SHOES and DIES, ROLL
SHELLS, STEEL OF ALL DESCRIPTION .
NOYES BROS.
(Melb.) Pty. Ltd.
(Sydney) Ltd.
499-501 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE. 115 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
PERTH (W.A.). STEELE & BAKER (Adelaide). BRISBANE (Q’land).
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
L. & F. CO., LIMITED.
Secure Highest Market Rates
for all consignments of Wool,
Wheat, Hides, Skins and Tallow
entrusted to them and render
returns promptly.
BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
WEAR RICNEY SHOES
m
There’s a Rigney Shoe for every occasion-
dress, semi-dress or outing. They differ only
in style. The same quality, perfect fit and
smart appearance are found in every Rigney
model.
The Shoe illustrated is a Tan Willow Calf
Derby Shoe, Brown Cloth insertion tops,
“Non-Tread-Over” Brand.
Price 32/6.
Postage 9d. extra.
Write for a copy of our Catalog.
The Rig'ney Shoe Co.,
“ The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,"
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
There hardly seems to have been a time
when the N.S.W. Parliament wasn’t scan-
dalising someone. In his day Henry Kendall
wrote: —
House with high, august traditions —Chamber where
the voice of Lowe,
And the lordly words of Wentworth sounded thirty
years ago—
Halls familiar to our fathers, where, in days exalted
rang
All the tones of all the feeling which ennobled Bland
and Lang—
We in ashes—we in sackcloth, sorrow for the insult
cast
By a crowd of bitter boobies on the grandeur of
your past!
Take again your penny whistle—boy, it is no good
to me ;
Last invention is a bladder with the title of M.P.
Ninian Melville was the victim of those
verses; and, part of them being very warm,
they were withdrawn at his instance.
Quite a lot of -people might just as well
not have White Australia principles for all
the use they put them to. For instance,
in a N.S.W. country town, which has been
sending good White Australians to Parlia-
ment for years, tenders were lately invited
by the committee of the School of alleged
Arts for the lease of its hall. The two
highest tenders were for the same amount;
one came from a Chinaman, the other from
an Australian. Yet it was decided to give
the preference to the Chow. And only one
member of the committee resigned in pro-
test ! But, then, thanks to the consistent
support of people who say they believe in a
White Australia, this Chinaman is affluent,
and when from business motives lie invites
a customer to have a drink, that man feels
quite honored.
You will get Years of Service
IF YOU SPECIFY
DUNLOP
CARDEN
4^
V\
J A c
It’s the
Strongest
Bind Best Wearing
for use in this
Country. Made
in 3 Qualities as
Illustrated.
* jr jt
THE. QUALITY of
materials and workman-
ship in these Hoses has
satisfied thousands of
users, and it will satisfy
you. Obtainable all
leading Stores, but accept
only one of these Brands.
It’s your warranty of
long service.
dV'E.
eo
OF
O®
m
fiD®
or
'
PM
RUBBER
r4ffsPf-
Co.
A.o®
OR
Ot»°
bR C
06
qß>
WAD£ IJV VARIOUS
SIZES AND PLIES.
OUHLOP RUBBER CO OF AUST. LTD.
All Stataa and N.Z.


THE EMPIRE ALWAYS!!
The SILENT EMPIRE
Bioscope is still leading
We have recently disposed of a complete
shipment to users throughout N.S.W.
Another shipment has just arrived, and is
well worth the inspection of every Showman.
The Machine is now greatly im-
proved and it is unbeatable.
The Empire with the Kelvin Electric Generat-
ing Set is the ideal combination for the up-to-
date Picture Palace.
We issue a .Special Booklet dealing with this
matter. Send for one.
$
]■!
\A
KELVIN
GENERATING SET
We have in Stock at present several Second-hand Bioscope Plants at
Remarkably Low Prices. Particulars on application.
“EVERYTHING FOR THE PICTURE SHOWMAN.”
JERDANS Ltd.
393 George Street,
SYDNEY.
A SATISFIED USER OF ECKERSLEY’S
m
V 9,
m
n ,
“ir r >
m
t
i
v
AERATED WATER MACHINES
WRITES :
Mumbil, 18th August, 1913.
RAILWAY HOTEL.
J. Forrest,
Frog.
“I am more than satisfied with my Aerated
Water Machine, purchased from you some
time ago, and the Waters which it produces
are excellent. The cost of production is only
a trifle.
“Yours faithfully.
u (Sgd.) JACK FORREST.”
No Hotelkeeper or Vendor of Aerated
Beverages can afford to be without an
Eckersley Aerated Water Machine or
Soda Fountain. We are the only manu-
facturers of these superb Machines, and
in purchasing from us, middlemen’s
profits are eliminated.
ECKERSLEY’S
Canada Building, 822 George St., Sydney
Clarendon Street, South Melbourne
Queensland Agents—Messrs. Elliott, Donaldson & Douglas, 529.33 Queen Street, Drisbane.
n
::v
to
The pen to possess.
A “nib”
in every style
* ‘ IVhateveryour style of handwriting, you
will find that I can supply you with the
very nib that suits you best. Ask for me
personally at the shop to-day
Don’t put up with the old-
fashioned fountain pen that
needs a filler—get an Onoto.
Don’t keep on using a pen
that leaks—get an Onoto.
The Onoto fills itself with ink
easily and quickly from any ink
supply. It is the one pen that
you can rely upon to fill itself
properly. It can’t leak.
If you buy the wrong kind of pen to-day you will probably wish for an Onoto
to-morrow —so be sure to get an Onoto. It is British made and guaranteed by
its makers.
Price 12/ - and upwards of all Stationers, Jewellers, and Stores. Booklet about he Onoto Pen free on
application o Th'os Be La Rue & Co., Ltd., 167 Bunhill Row, London, EC, or the Managing
Aeents for Australasia. Norman Baker & Longhurst, 50 York Street, Sydney.
WATCH
BRACELETS.
We have sold thousands of
Watches, and the demand
grows daily.
WHY?
Every watch we sell is guaranteed
for 15 years.
*8
f Xf
* r \iJ
Absolutely Reliable Gold Watch, with Expanding- Gold
Bracelet, choicely cased, from £5/5/-
Pearl set, as illustrated, from £ll/11/-
Every watch is tested before delivery.
Every watch is known as reliable and accurate, or thrown out of our stock.
Prices, too, are low —indeed, the lowest in Australia for high-grade goods.
We carry an immense range of designs in Gold and Platinum, both plain and set
with Jewels.
Plain Figures
Cash.
Fairfax & Roberts, Ltd.,
TVe Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney, 23 &25 Hunter Street.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred of "Hop’s” best drawings. Full
Bulletin size. Price, 21s.
TRY IT IN YOUR
BY
APPOINTMENT
fd
BATH
TO
H.M. THE KINO.
hfd
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites,
invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
Price 11- per Bottle. Of all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LTD., MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
h
“Mis Master’s Voice.”
Model “Austral No. 2
All who are familiar with the
previous model of the “Aus-
tral” will scarcely credit that
any improvement was possible
without an increase of price.
The experts who are c >ntinu-
ally experimenting to produce
improvements have succeeded
in a notable fashion with this
model, and we now offer the
“Austral No. 2” as something
unique in value.
It is a splendid instrument —-
one that will still further in-
crease the popularity of “His
Master’s Voice” machines.
0
£B/15/-
SPECIFICATION.
CABINET: Polished Quartered Oak, with solid moulded faoors; nickel-plated
cabinet fittings; full-size internal horn, with w r ooden grille.
SIZE : Base, 17in.; Height, 9in. ; Depth, 17in.
MECHANISM: Double spring spiral drive motor; 12in. turntable; speed indi-
cator ; “His Master’s Voice”* tapering tonearm, with patent “goosenecs
“Exhibition” sound-box.
Instrument Catalogue, Record Lists and name of nearest
accredited dealer on request.
Sole concessionaires for
The GRAMOPHONE Co. Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
«
\
&
Previous to liet Fatal Wedding, as she
called it, Mat-jorie Heinbockel dashed off a
few rem&l-ks to a Melbourne friend re the
imminent event. Wedding presents already
totalled 300, and all the Moneyed Set had
taken the merry little Melbourne girl to its
bejewelled bosom. Pier gorgeous trousseau,
with 20 dresses as the pieces de resistance ,
had been selected for her by Lady
Raphael; and that lady’s husband, the
M.P. for Derby, had given the happy pail-
some choice Chippendale furniture, a full
equipment of household silver, and five won-
derful prints. Sir Herbert Raphael is bride-
groom Norman Raphael’s fond and particu-
lar unde. Father-in-law-elect was the
donor, seemingly, of a pearl and diamond
pendant that cost £BOO, and Marjorie’s gifts
from the bridegroom were a diamond
brooch, gold bag and a fur coat. Mortimer
Menpes presented the fair Marjorie with a
Whistler etching, as a suitable expression
of his admiration for one so unconvention-
ally artistic as she. Her wedding dress
was d la Victoria, with white tulle flounces
and a train loaned by Lady Rap-
hael aforesaid, who got it as a present from
the late good Queen Vic. Three brides-
maid children were engaged for the cere-
mony, and Capt. Muirhead Collins, Acting
High Commissioner for Australia, was to
give the bride away. The letter tells also
of her home-to-be (a flat in Rutland Court,
with windows overlooking Rotten Row),
and goes into ecstasies concerning furniture
bought from the Oppenheimer collection,
and a carpet of a make so wonderful that
its very name is undecipherable in Mrs.
Marjorie Norman Raphael’s unrivalled
scrawl. The moral of it all is Advance
Australia.
The bitter cold caused one dazzling Cup
dress to be obscured by wraps. The Rupert
Clarke lady, carefully muffled in furs, was
robed in cloth-of-gold with a tunic of bar-
baric colors held together by a line of seal
fur. Beneath the hem of the furs she showed
stockings inlet with lace down to the toes,
and satin shoes that were really sandals with
three-inch heels. A black turban with an
exclamatory feather was the last item of the
outfit.
While the rain was falling on the Cup I
heard one blue-lipped, red-nosed vision, in
shadow lace and ninon shot with hailstones,
chatter to a damp and purple-faced com-
panion: “Have you got much on, dear?”
“For this race, do you mean?” “No! Have
you got much on — underneath ?”
Dr. Friedmann drifted round at race-time
and persistently quoted the classics to women
who only wanted to learn what chance their
sweep horse had, or if the barometer was
rising. The trouble about a good classinoi
education is that very few ever get over it
A country mayor, who hails from a villas
which has a lady town clerk, made » !!!
of hit at the recent Municipal Association
meeting by telling what a model the Fa!
was, and inviting all present to come a lone
and shake hands with her. Some iovini „ g
asked if the clerk was married, and the hh
wise old gentleman raised a mar b.v renlvini
‘ N °; but intends tO.be-." fcvervbodV
grew very cheerful oyer it, and, after tJ,
principal comedian had admitted that he wa*
single, the proceedings Concluded with 8
roguish suggestion. When the elderly een
tleman who had sown the wind in sort'
fatuous style got back to his town hall h!
encountered the full-grown whirlwind an<]
had to hold his hat on with both h’anT
Some humorous speeches go well enough Ik,
long as they are not reported.
Ada Dwyer, whom local Sassietv took
when she was here with “Mrs. Wiggs 0 f the
Cabbage Patch, ’’ writing to a Melbourne
friend from Salt Lake City, announces that
she has just lost (a) her appendix, (b) her
daughter. The daughter has made a start
behind the footlights with a small part in
Heerbohm Tree’s gorgeous “Joseph and Ilk
Brethren, Her stage name- is Lotna Rus-
sell.
Sassiety is still talking of the lngh-totierl
newchum and his varied experiences in the
best ballrooms. One night at Mrs. Blank
Dash’s dance he talked at large in such an
offensively-English manner about the Aus-
tralian girls—haw—that a number of other
men thought it only a fair thing to throw
him or push him out of doors, flinging his
hat and coat after him. After which they
explained matters to their hostess and got
her ready forgiveness for their violence. So
far so good. But next night the married
sister of the hostess, knowing nothing of
what > had happened, took the libellous
johnnie to another Toorakian dance as her
own special introduction.
Girls are developing a habit of holding up
skimpy trains while dancing; it is rather
suggestive of tails. A still later item of
fashionable interest is that ears are to be
hidden and the hair lowered to the eyes all
round the forehead.
From “Rosna,” in Britain:—
Miss Asquith Baker, cf Melbourne, who is working
with her brush on this side, has an exhibition at
the Baillie Gallery. It is a slender little show-
one or two subdued but interesting portraits, a
few flower studies, and some English landscapes—
notably “Dead Timber” and “The Road to the
Farm,” all full of feeling. The Baillie is a
gallery to which most Australian daubers gravitate
for at lea=-+ one exhibition. At the Royal Institute
of Oil Painters Australia is represented by Streeton,
Quinn, Burgess, Will Ashton, Grace Joel, A. H. Full-
wood and Tom Roberts. Rose Macpherson has now
descended upon this Big Smoke on an artistic jag
Gladys Revnell (also of South Aus.) comes with her.
The two have been painting the lily in Paris for
seme time past.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.


mm
ORDER YOUR
FAN MOTORS NOW
THE GUARANTEE OF EXCELLENCE
ON GOODS ELECTRICAL.
fd
AN\ home, office, store, shop, faffiory, or any building at all can be kept cool and comfortable during the summer days
and nights by means of G.E. Eledtric Fans. G.B. Fans are scientifically designed, and are made in all sizes, types
and voltages. They may be had with or without the oscillating arrangement, which will be found a great improvement over
the plain type, and are made for either wall, desk or ceiling attachment.
WRITE FOR BULLETIN B. 3217.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC CO.,
Corner Queen and Little Collins Streets, MELBOURNE. 217 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Agents
| BRISBANE, Q. : The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia (E.S.C.A,), Edward Street.
PERTH, W.A.: Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., “Mazda House,” Hay Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A.: Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical and Engineering Co., Dunedin, Auckland, Wellington.
f'Ringing for More!'
.SAA
mn
r
A
Bird’s
Custard
stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess.
Has stood the test of time
Over 70 years ’ success . A
PILE PILLS.
PERMANENT CURE.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS.
Non-aperient. A sure and speedy cure for ali cases
of Internal and External Piles.
Have Cured Thousands of Cases, some after suffering
over 40 years.
Made and sold by ANDREW MURPHY, WOY
WOY (N.S.W.), Sole Proprietor. ...
PRICE 3/- PER BOX, or 8 BOXES £l,
Post Free.
On Sale at All Druggists and Chemists throughout
the States.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austra-
lasian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the offices. 115 High llol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.. ..
T* HE Australian Magazine—THU LONK
1 iiA.NL>, Xiie National AloutUiy. Uriee, <Jd.
ocg--:~
SILENT and STEADY
RUNNING.
NEAT DESIGN.
Effective Results
with Minimum
Cost of Current.
A. E. G.
ELECTRIC
FANS.
SYDNEY
40-2 Clarence Street.
MELBOURNE
(72-6 William Street.
ADELAIDE
129 Currie Street.
s*
K
%
*
««r
.
&
\
*
TESTS ON ABOVE ENGINES.
Guaranteed Consumptions
Consumptions attained on official test by Gov-
ernment Testing Bureau
Consumptions given by the Station officials after
running 6 months on load
B.H.P,
407.9
408
Waterfeed to boiler,
per B.H.P. Hour.
9.71 b.
9.11 b.
9.01 b.
Coal per
B.H.P. Hour.
1.231 b.
I.llb.
1.0951 b.
WOLF
Patent Superheated
Steam Locomobiles
We are installing, amongst others, three of these
engines for the SYDNEY W T ATER SUPPLY, and
two for the BROKEN HILL WATER SUPPLY;
we also have a great many already in successful
use throughout Australia.
The illustration shows
The Fulda Electric Power Station,
consisting of—
-2 Units, type V.K., 480 B.H.P. each, with
direct coupled dynamos.
Repeat 1 Unit, type V.K., 680 B.H.P. each, with
direct coupled dynamos.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES:
Haes 8 Eggers Ltd.
163 Clarence Street, Sydney


Abbey Shoe.
Over fifty years of shoemaking
experience is embodied in every
Abbey Shoe —an experience that
has taught us how to combine the
best style, the best quality and the
best price into a Shoe that has
perfect-fitting qualities.
The Boot illustrated is a Patent
Golosh Bah, Dull Calf Leg. Perfor-
ated Golosh, 27/6 and 30/-
Also in Tan Willow Calf. 22/6,
25/- and 27/-
Postage extra.
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Write for our Catalog.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
The
Marie
Permanent
Hair
Stain
(Registered).
BE YOUTHFUL EVER!
This well-known and reliable Permanent Stain has
given complete satisfaction to thousands of men
and women throughout Australia who have used it
on hair, moustache and heard. Not one failure.
Unaffected by surfing, tonics, washing or wearing.
Non-injurious to the most delicate hair or skin.
Impossible to go patchy. Simple to apply. Light
Brown, Medium Brown, Dark Brown and Black.
PRICE 10/6, 6d. postage (12 months’ supply,!.
Money returned if proved unsatisfactory. All
Toilet Requisites stocked. Send me your hairwork.
One and Only Address:
MARIE VAN BRAKKEL,
46 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
(Opposite Hotel Australia).
No connection with any other firm trading under
the name of Van Brakkel. (Register all letters ).
The Oil
Every
H**dyCllC
fS
For
Purpose
“ THREE-IN-ONB ” OIL is
unrivalled for cleaning Gramo-
S hones, for lubricating Sewing
lachines, and for polishing
Furniture.
It makes Gun Barrels, Motor
Car Mountings, Ranges, and
Metal Surfaces—indoors or out
—rust-proof!
“ 3-in-one ” Oil
is a concentrated, highly refined
article of special quality.
It is a perfect lubricant!
Leading Kinematograph Ope-
rators won’t use any other.
Nor will Phonograph people.
They know ■‘3-in-Or»e”isßest!
Sold everywhere in Bottles
and Handy Oil Can.
A Post-card will bring Free
Sample Bottle together with
“3-in-One” Oil Booklet.
h
REID AND REID,
Australasian Agent*,
82 A, Harris St,
Wellington,
N.Z.
fdh
GET A RECEIPT
dr/L. :
CIZ I
mm
\
\/OU were never meant to remember
' everything.
The NATIONAL CASH
REGISTER was and does.
It never forgets to record every transaction
of oroods sold, whether for cash or credit.
The National Cash Register Co.
of Australasia Ltd.
335 Pitt Street, Sydney
343 Queen Street, Brisbane
281 Murray Street, Perth
50 Bourke Street, Melbourne
117 a Rundle Street, Adelaide
80 Collins Street, Hobart
57 Brisbane Street, Launceston.
TOP-NOTCH”
of Scotch
“Kina
Cj eorge IV
GJ fiisky
£
F
k'
PRINCIPAL BRANDS Of
THE
D
ISTILLERS
G
OMPANY
JIMITED
Largest Whislry Distillers m the TOrld
Capital employed av*r£3.ooo.ooo
EDINBURGH SCOTLAND
SPECIAL NOTICE.
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
able rates. . , . npvploP*
ATjSO TO INSPECT MINING PROPERTIES with a view to Revel v
ing, Financing, or Purchasing same. , u#i il»
Address: MR. B. MAGNUS, General Manager, MOUNT MORGAN, QUEENSLAKU-
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Harrison 0.”: There is a coffee palace in Mel-
bourne which, like most places of the sort, is run
on strictly Wowser lines, so that couples who arrive
late at night and are suspected of being either more
or less to one another than they should be, are liable
to be told that the place is full, or that the sheets
belonging to the spare bed are in the wash, or some-
thing of the kind. However, the proprietor of a
tobacco emporium near by recently got in a stock of
secondhand bags, and caused it to be known among
the “nuts” that travelling gear might be hired by the
night at a reasonable rate. The scheme, 1 am told,
has proved deplorably successful. With a coffee-
palace booking-clerk a worn “Gladstone” or port-
manteau is considered as strong a guarantee of re-
spectability as elastic-sided boots.
* * * *
Sherlock Holmes couldn’t have managed it better.
It happened in a South Aus. out-port. A s boots
were taken while he lay dead-to-the-world on the
wharf, the taker thoughtfully leaving him some old
slippers in their place. A fortnight later he had
another carouse—or it may have been a later chapter
of the same one —and this time got locked up. In
the same cell was B, and on his feet were the lost
boots. B’s story that he had bought them from 0,
a party unknown, was considered thin ; so A got the
boots, and B got a month.
* * * *
“Ividman’s Man” : Beef cattle in the United States
have decreased 30 per cent, while the population has
increased by 11 per cent. There is a parallel decrease
of sheep in Europe. These matters point to the in-
calculable future of Australian meat. At the annual
convention of American packers, lately held, it was
argued that every small farmer should raise at least
two beef steers. But they won’t do it. Said the
president: “As things are going, steak will be a
dollar a lb. in 10 years!” No fear! Australia can
put it in for under a quarter dollar. The first ship-
ment of chilled beef direct to New York from Argen-
tina, 200,0001 b., arrived last month. It was promptly
taken and distributed. The retail price was from one
to 14 cents per lb. under that of American beef. Yet
a duty of 14 cents per lb. had been paid, and that
duty is under sentence of removal. A little Aigen-
tina beef has been going to New York by way of Eng-
land. Now it will be sent straight. The total U.b.
beef imports of late have been: June, 567,2051 b. .
July, 642,3331 b. ; August, 824,3421 b. San Francisco
took, mostlv Australian, in June, 143,0131 b. ; in
July, 410,2321 b. ; and in August, 397,3551 b. A second
cargo, 1,000,0001 b., is reported to be on the way
from Buenos Ayres to New York ; so, plainly, others
besides ourselves are smelling out the new market.
* * * *
“Sapphire”: The Sheet and Plate Glass Workers
asked the other day for an all-round increase of
18s. per week. The employers swooned as one man,
and on being brought to, referred the matter back to
the union. Their anguish was comprehensible. The
trade in silvered and bevelled goods is purely local.
There is no inter-State, and very little Island, trade.
Fully 50 per cent, of the whole is in stock sizes,
the imported dutv on which is a paltry 20 pei
cent. Now Pinkington’s, probably the largest fac-
tory in England, have only two men engaged m
their largest department. The rest are girls who
start at ss. a week, and may, if expert, rise to Cl.
This house alone could swamp the local market
witli stock sizes, leaving the local employers and
employees to struggle for the remaining 50 per cent,
of trade. In other words, the Australian operative
would be slain dead commercially by the im-
porter. What is wrong with such a duty as would
enable the local employer to live, while paying a
bit extra to the local employee?
* * * *
Australia, having got the load of imported calico
off its back and begun to stand up straight, begins
to find it can make and do quite a lot of things.
As far back as 1891 Tanunda (S.A.) was heterodox
enough to believe that even brandy could be pro-
duced in these sunny parts; and, though it was a
hard struggle to get other people to believe that the
liquor could be anything but rubbish, it managed to
carry its point in the end. Now one co. alone
squeezes ho less than 3500 tons of grapes a year.
That means 600,000 gallons of wine, of which 500,000
are distilled for brandy; and as the law demands
that all Australian brandy shall be kept in wood for
at least two years, these Tanunda people now keep
in No. 1 bond alone enough to fill 1,800,000 bottles.
There is another-new store with 100,000 gallons;
and in various smaller bonds are casks and vats, with
a total capacity of 1,600,000 gallons. At the outset,
though Australian vines were cracked up to be all
that vines should be, it wasn’t thought possible
that anything but imported oak could be good enough
to hold the juice; but nowadays they know better,
and vats as good as any in the world are made of
Australian jarrah.
“Sapphire”: King Edward YI. authorised the use
of a Book of Private Prayer. Evidently the land-
lords of that time were hardy sinners, for the
following was included in the Primer: “The earth
is Thine, O Lord, and all that is contained therein;
notwithstanding Thou hast given the possession
thereof unto the children of men, to pass over the
time of their short pilgrimage in this vale of
misery. We heartily beseech Thee to send Thy Holy
Spirit .into the hearts of them that possess the
grounds, pastures and dwelling places of the earth,
that they, remembering themselves to be Thy tenants,
mav not rack and stretch out the rents of their
houses and lands, nor yet take unreasonable fines
and incomes after the manner of covetous worldlings,
but so let them out to others that the inhabitants
thereof may both be able to pay the rents, and also
honestly to live, to nourish their families, and to
relieve the poor. Give them grace also to consider
that they are but strangers and pilgrims in this
world, having here no dwelling place, but seeking
one to come; that they, remembering the short con-
tinuance of their life, may be content with that
which is sufficient, and not join house to house, nor
couple land to land, to the impoverishment of others,
but so behave in letting out their tenements, lands
and pastures, that after this life they may be received
into everlasting dwelling places. Amen.” In the
absence of a Fair Rents Bill, I move that the Reli-
gious Editor add a curse to the above. It will do
for Australian use then.
“Bad Australian” (from the Argentine) : Australia
is beginning to take notice of this territory. A few
days ago the Remuera dropped her mudhook inside
the breakwater at Monte Video, and dumped many
thousand cases of Tasmanian apples for transhipment
to Buenos Ayres. As a general thing, the M.L.
Shipping Co.’s boats hang off about seven kilometres
while they hoist a few passengers aboard for the
Cold Country. People interested in the business tell
me that they pronose to keep on importing Tasmanian
pippins. I think they ought to, seeing that the
pirates charge 25 cents, which means sd. in good
Mount Lvell copper, for each sample of the fruit that
wrecked humanity.
HE HADN’T THE HEART TO SHOOT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The burglar came while Levi snored,
And gathered up a swag' of loot.
He fell upon Abe’s little hoard
Of ready cash, took socks and suit,
And turned to leave the window by,
When Rachel fetched an awful cry.
“Oh, Abe, awake!” She shook the boss.
“A bur-gu-lar come by der place.
Ve suffer terrible der loss
Kef you don’d shoot him by der face.”
Then Abe he scrambled for his gun,
And Mike the burglar made his run.
Abe took good aim, but did not fire ;
He let his gun drop by the bed.
“Vy don'd you shood?” in frantic ire
Exclaimed his spouse; and Levy said.
“I can’d. If dot gun I should shoot
I lose der cartriches. to boot!”
VICTORIA.
SILAS.


fC. --Cl
horlick?
HALTED Hiik
teL D «NoTi)*vta2
'mwc
Firmly established
• in Australia •
Horlick’s Malted Milk, the
Health Food-Drink.has thous-
ands of staunch supporters
in the Commonwealth. Being
made of the purest Cream-
milk and Cereals evaporated
to a fine powder, it is ready
for immediate use and needs
no cooking.
It builds up body and brain,
and gives health and strength
to all ages. It is the most
easily digested Food - Drink
ever produced, and its effects
on your health are immediate
and lasting.
No change of climate
affects it, and it is ideal for
use in Australia.
Of all Chemists and Stores.
Get Horlick’s at the
Soda Fountain.
HORUCKS
Hum NIU
LETTERS COPIED
WHILE WRITING
(IN INK)
w
by using your own Letter
Paper, Invoices, etc., with this
Copying book. You simnly in-
sert your Letter paper (as
illustrated) then write: and
the act of writing produces a
perfect letter and a perfect
copy in the book. There is no sign of your having
taken a copy; no perforated edge.
Book N.S.C./200 copies either 200 letters size 10
by 8 in., or 400 size 8 by 5, price 3/9: or Book
N.S.C./400 copies 400 or 800 respectively, price 57-
post free, cash with order. Special Dainty Octavo
Book, making 200 copies, for 3/- P. 0., or double
capacity for 4/3. Sample of the wonderful Zan-
etic Ink Paper, which makes the copy, free, if
stamped, addressed ' envelope sent to
8. B ZANETIC, Welford Rd., LEICESTER, ENCLAND
2
STEWART DAWSON’S
Superb Silverware
Beauty of design, combined with utility,
characterises STEWART DAWSON
SILVERWARE. We are the actual
manufacturers, and sell to you at FIRST
COST PRICES. Yo ur oullay a t
STEWART DAWSONS will purchase
more, and belter, goods than you would expect.
We pay the postage to any address.
Write for Illustrated Christmas Cata-
logue—now ready.
era
yi
»■»
mist
0$
m
wmrmm
0289.—Neat Design Silver Plated FRUIT DISH,
27/6
Strand Corner, 412 George St., Sydney.
AUSTRALIA: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND: Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin.
LONDON: 73 to 81 Regent Street, W.; and 19 to 21 Hatton Garden. E.C.
.73/6
Q
ENGLISH =
MADE
Concertinas
By LACHENAL & CO., LONDON.
No. 1.
Engl i s h Concertina,
mahogany tops, 20 bone
keys, 5-fold bellows, yellow
metal reeds; complete in
wooden box, with lock' and
key, 45/-, post free.
No/ 2.
English Concertina,
mahogany tops, 20 bone
keys, 5-fold bellows, . steel
reeds; complete in wooden
box, with lock and key,
55/-, post free.
No. 3.
Engl i s h Concertina,
rosewood tops. 5-fold bel-
lows, 20 bone keys, newly-
improved action steel reeds.
In mahogany case, with lock
and key, £4/10/-, post free.
Postage Paid to Any Address
in the Commonwealth.
A. P. SYKES,
272 Little Collins-street,
MELBOURNE.
TWO DOO*S FROM COLE'S *OOK ARCAOt
FOR WOUNDS, CUTS AND SORES'
Just wash the part clean, rub in a little
WILKINSONS
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT
and you’ll have the skin healed and healthy
quicker than with any other ointment on earth.
Everyone says so who has used it; Write for a
tin now. 1/6. posted 1/9.
J. WILKIMSON, Chemist.
2] Wickham Street, Valley. Brisbane.
COLORED POST-CARDS, by llarrv J.
Weston —“WEEKLY WORRIES.” Set
of six. posted free, 6d. Bulletin News-
paper Co., 214 George Street, Sydney.
PC
liLoILID
Richest in
■-
M
gs.*
1
»
ffjr i
• **
fMH
y f
I . « ft
-.-• •»-
:5S
.->... I la
US™*
• /
n
n -i
,
I■
tn*
! ■ 1
111 U
t
\\
\ \
A
wm
jme&H&n*7;
SEP
CONO
T
• V
y - %
/ v*
s*
M
.*>•
v>
BR^°
IMMST
MHSi
"tSUi/mo -SWISS COHOBWW^' p
•'^ | rt«u>NoXOMQPN •• 5 y V N^.
m%
m.
©
A
<3


Shipping.
Pm and O. BRANCH SERVICE.
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Via MELBOURNE and ADELAIDE.
Wireless ins' ailed.
PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION AMIDSHIPS.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
LONDON £l6, £IS & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l7 17s.
Tickets for return, via Suez (second-class), P. and
0. Mail, from £49 19s. to £53 11s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD. , 7 Bent St.
Melbourne: John Sanderson Sc Co., 11l William St.
Adelaide and Fremantle Agents: Geo. Wills Sc Co.,
Limited.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
ORAMA ..Triple-Screw
ORVIETO ..Twin-Screw
OSTERLEY
OTRANTO
OTWAY . . „
ORSOVA . . „
ORONTES . . „
OMRAII . . „
OPHIR . . „
13,000 Regd. Tons.
12,130 „
12,129 „
12,124 „
12,077 „
12,036 „
9,023 „
8,282 „
6,814 „
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
1/-
Minimum
Deposit.
ON
FRIDAY
EVENING
£5OO
Interest
Limit.
take a portion of your pay to the local
Branch of the Government Savings Bank.
Even 1/- will open an account and put you
on the road to saving.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
THE STATE SAVINGS INSTITUTION.
118 BRANCHES and OVER 500
AGENCIES IN THE STATE.
This Bank has
no Agencies at
Post Offices.
Head Office
11 Moore Street,
SYDNEY.
J. 11. Davies, Secretary
3
1 Per
2 Cent.
Interest on
First £3OO
5 Per
Cent.
On Excess
to £5OO
THE
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £382,500.
Head Office: Brisbane.
GENERAL MANAGER: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Sydney Office: 242 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian jjank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. ..£2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,534
PAID-UP (30th June, 1913) ..£1,195,398
RESERVE FUND £25,000
HSAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS —Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man ; George J. Sly. Esq., LL.D. ; Chas. H.
Myles, Esq. ; Mark Sheldon, Esq. ; Arthur S.
Barton, Esq.; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal .towns of the
world. A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital . . .. . . £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid-Up .. .. . . 413,418 0 0
Reserve . . . . . . . . 142,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Jas. Munro, Esq. (Chairman) ; John
Cameron, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. ; Geo. Edw. Bunning,
Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Colonial (Ijutual Qife
assurance society limited
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £6,000,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
The Hon.
The Hon.
Directors :
C. J. Roberts. C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
Bruce Smith. K.C.. M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
ORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD, N.D.L.
IMPERIAL MAIL STEAMERS,
TO COLOMBO, SUEZ, NAPLES, GENOA, ALGIERS,
SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, AND BREMEN.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Installation.
All Steamers fitted with Laundry.
FARES TO LONDON: 1.. £7l/10/-: 11., £4O;
111., £l5 to £l9. RETURN: 1., £lO7/5/-; 11.,
£6O; 111., £3O/12/- to £37/16/
LOHMANN and CO., General Agents, 7 Bridge-st.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE.
*The largest and Finest Steamer trading between
Australia and San Francisco.
Around World and Around Pacific Tours.
Steamers stop 24 Hours at Papeete—the
“ Pearl of the Pacific.”
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
Shipping.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIH€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE
Steamers Fitted with Wireless. *Third-Class only.
fTriple Screw Turbine.
SALOON: FARES— Third-class.
London, from £45. £l6 to £2O.
Capetown and Durban, from £3O £l3/13/- to £l7/17/-
Special Round Tickets for Return by Orient Line,
£llO (First-class both ways) ; £B2 (Second-class
Orient). Saloon Return and Stop-over Tickets inter-
changeable with Holt’s Blue Funnel Line. Third-
Class Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable
with P. & O. Branch Service.
ROUND-THE-WORLD TICKETS from £122/10/-.
SALOON CABINS on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest stan-
dard.
Pamohlets. Time-Tables, kc.., on application.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LTD. Agents in Australia
Australian Steamships Line
UNSURPASSED PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Fast Passenger Steamers
Sail as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY '
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAT
TOWNSVILLE
*CAIRNS
(*Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports). J
NORTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Nov. 22
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Nov. 26
Leaves Sydney Nov. 29
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).\
Leaves Melbourne Dec. 3
Leaves Sydney, December 6
For
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and W.A. ports).
SOUTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Nov. 22
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Nov. 29
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Three Weeks’Holidays
in the South Seas.
The BURNS PHILP Steamer “MAKAMBO” (fitted with Electric Light and
Refrigerator), leaving Sydney on the 31st December, 1913, for VILA (New
Hebrides), via LORD HOWE AND NORFOLK ISLANDS, and returning
again on the 22nd January, provides the opportunity of a restful and pleasant
CRUISE in the SOUTHERN PACIFIC, with a home on the Steamer the
whole time.
ROUND TRIP FARE (DECK CABIN), £l9/5/-; ORDINARY, £l7/10/-
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 11 Bridge Street, Sydney
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
m
DIRECTUUS:
£3,253,540
£2,250,000
£3,253,540
£8,757,080
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, lit., M.L.C.
President.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Ksq.
Richard Uinnie, Esq.
Tlie Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
The Hon. Janies T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund VV. Eosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
AUDITORS: Shepheard Edgecliff Laidley, Esq.. Alfred George Milson, Esq.
Head Office-Gcorge St., Sydney. London Office -29 Threadneedlo St., E.C.
335 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London, Agents
and Correspondents throughout the World.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEOOTT A RLE THROUGHOUT THE
WORLD. J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-Up ..£1,750,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . . . 1,630,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. 1,750,000 0 0
£5,130,000 0 0 '
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen. Esq.. . .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: E. S. Cape, Esq., and F. W. Hixson, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 13 Birclxin - Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. H. S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Bank of Hero Z ealan(l -
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING,
GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. •• £1,000,000
Preference Shares • • • • • • 500,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,000,000) Paid-
up 500,000
Uncalled Capital 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,418,117
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Bri-
tain and Ireland, and other places.
CRANTS DRAFTS
at Interest
fixed periods,
transacts all other usual Banking business.
for
and
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-Up .. •• •• ..£538,307
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. .. 159,054
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock).. 76,500
£773 861
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Gen Man., Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
THE Best Stories written in Australia
appear in The Lone Hand each month.
Brice 6d.
A Whole Week Saved
SYDNEY to SAN FRANCISCO by the
Oceanic Steamship Company
10,000 tons, Twin Screw Steamers. 17 knots,
Classed 100 A 1 at British Lloyds.
CABINS DE LUXE with BATHS.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY—
The through trip to England can be accomplished
in 29 Days via Samoa, Honolulu, San Francisco.
RETURN TICKETS GOOD BY P. &0., ORIENT LINE,
N.D.L., N.Z .S. Co. and S. S. & A.'Co.
Tel. 2282 City. Apply— 44 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
THE North Coast Steam
1 Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS ; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S HAR-
BOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads—steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Bs. 6d. ; second-class rail and steerage
on steamer. £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
Z.aw Points
/ni/entorj
fd
TAN 1 OBTAIN A PATENT?
Jhe quickest way to ascertain
this, WITHOUT EXPENSE, is
to write to me describing your invention, enclosing
a small sketch where necessary. Nicety of drawing
is not essential; all that is necessary "at first is to
give me YOUR IDEA.
I will at once inform you whether the idea is
patent-able, and, if so, give the necessary instructions
for further procedure.
Persons desirous of obtaining really reliable advice
or information regarding Patent matters are cordi-
ally invited to consult me personally or by letter. In
all cases a careful consideration of their plans, an
honest opinion, and a prompt reply may be
expected.
A. J. CALLINAN, Patent Attorney,
Citizens’ Buildings, Collins street, Melbourne.
Shipping.
THE AOELAIOE STEAMSHIP CO,
w^rccr*:.^
Victorian and Queensland Ports,
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
WOLLOYVEA, Tuesday
December 9.
T.S.S. WANDILLA(77BS
tons), fitted Wireles*
Telegraphy, Saturday
December HO.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
MARLOO, November’l
GRANTALA, Nov 29
INNAMINCKA, Dec 6.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchanffpahlo
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Co m pa£
on all services subject to conditions, which ranT
ascertained on application at the Company’s Office
G. S. YUILL gt CO., LTD.,
„ Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
The Vancouver Route
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
Via FIJI AND HONOLULU.
CANADIAN - AUSTRALASIAN RM
LIKE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
AROUND THE WORLD TOURS
FIRST AND SECOND CLASS.
SAILINGS :
*New triple-screw steamer, fitted with cab'ns-de-
luxe en suite, Nursery, Laundry, Electric Lifts, etc.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STEAM SIMP COMPANY OH N.Z., LID.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Federal & Shire Lines
STEAM TO LONDON AND LIVERPOOL
(SALOON ONLY).
S.S. MORAYSHIRE.
9000 Tons. CAPTAIN HOWARD.
SYDNEY . . . . NOVEMBER 29, 1913
MELBOURNE . . . . DECEMBER 2, 1913
Fares to London, £4O.
Excellent accommodation for Saloon Passengers on
Upper Deck Amidships. Electric Light throughout.
Fitted with Wireless.
Successful vaccination certificates and signed sur-
veillance forms or exemption certificates must be pre-
sented before passengers can be booked.
For illustrated pamphlets and full information
apply to
BIRT & COMPANY LIMITED, Agents.
7 Macquarie Place.
’Phone Nos., City 2073-4-5.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“lllimaroa,” “Wimmera."
“Riverina,” “Victoria
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND POUTS.
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
WAVERLEY PENS
_ WAVERLEYPEN
M*CNIVEM»iCAMERON
FOR SWIFT LEGIBLE WRITING NO PEN
CAN COMPETE WITH A WAYERLtI-
ITS ENTICING ACTION, ITS SMOO* n
TURNED-UP POINT, AND ITS DURA-
BILITY, MAKE IT INCOMPARABLY THU
BEST NIB AND THE CHEAPEST. THE
RESERVOIR WAVERLEY CAN DO
WORDS WITH ONE DIP. TRY U-
SIXPENCE PER BOX
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND DEALERS.
Wholesale Agent
ROBERT HUTTON
521 FLINDERS LANE
: MELBOURNE «


Hotels, Ac.
' EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne,
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 13/- per day.
AND UPWARDS.
Tlie Hotel is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It is
the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30
lIOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
r^.
Gent’s
Aertex
Cellular
Combinations.
SINGLET and
TRUNK DRAWERS.
w uc 6/6
Post
Free
1 'it most comfort-
afrle form of
fjnuerwear, and,
being of Aertex
lYllular, the
P’ >st healthy.
ie also in other
pi n and fancy
(' < 11 on s, Lisle
Tlneads, Woollens,
on.! Silks.
A lien ordering
i-ite height and
■die of chest.
aq n n s t w.- DAVID BKAHAM 8 CO.,
76 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
(Next door to Farmer's.)
Williams’ Holder Top
Shaving Stick.
This is the good old
Shaving Stick known to
ever y gentleman
in Australia, but
now presented in
a new and attrac-
tive form, greatly
enhancing it s
convenience and
economy.
Your chemist will be glad
to show it to you.
DOES
SKILL COCKROACHES
PROCURABLE FROM:
George Gough & Son, Ltd., Bris-
bane.
H. H. Groth & Co., Sydney.
London Pharmacy, Ipswich, Q’land
G. R. Smith, Townsville, ~
Lomas & Co*, Warwick, ~
Jack & Co., Balby, „
Bryant & McLean, Roma, ~
E. S. Hale, Bundaberg, ~
Newbery & Shambler, Gynipie, ~
Peak & Co., Toowoomba, ~
Williams, Ltd., Rockhampton, „
Lamberts, Ltd., Mackay, „
Alex. Campbell & Sons.
Maryborough, *»
And all reliable Storekeepers throughout
Australasia.
Agents wanted in West & South Australia.
Write to GOUGH’S, BRISBANE.
Australian Maaazine-yTIIJS .LONIS
Xiie Jiatiouai »lAoatltlji Xrtce. fid.
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFIOE
h
Bank of Hustvalta
SYDNEY
Branches are open for the transaction of GENERAL, BANKING BUSINESS at
New South Wales —Sydney. Federal Capital —Canberra. Victoria —Melbourne.
Queensland —Brisbane. Rockhampton, and Townsville. South Australia —Adelaide.
Western Australia —Perth. Tasmania —Hobart. And at 36-38 NEW BROAD ST., London.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, foreign places direct. Foreign bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of credit and circular notes issued to any part of the world. Bills negotiated or
forwarded for collection. Banking and Exchange business of every description transacted within
the Commonwealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Interest paid on fixed deposits.
„ SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.
Branches are open at 3 Moore Street. Sydney; 317 Collins Street, Melbourne; Queen Street,
Brisbane; Royal Exchange. 96 King William Street, Adelaide; St. George’s Terrace,
Perth; Elizabeth Street. Hobart; and Canberra (Federal Capital); and 1900 Agencies at
Post Offices which issue Money Orders in the Australian Commonwealth and Papua,
an ij rom a.m. to 5 p.m. daily, and noon Saturday.
w-*J: ranch Offices are open for deposits and withdrawals on Friday, 7 to 9 p.m.
Withdrawals on demand mayjbe effected at any office . within the Commonwealth.
... 1/- Minimum Deposit. 3 % Rate of Interest on all Deposits up to £3OO.
•lames KELL, Deputy Governor. August, 1913. DENISON MILLER, Governor.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queens-
land offers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars,
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane,
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
a 1 ?
i-gi-SHI-T
HOTEL
METROPDLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. 6d. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
THE BEST
IMOKE
IS
ELLOW
ASTER
* TOBACCO
B.S.A.
cheapest in the end.
It is not only the initial outlay that counts
when buying a bicycle, it is what will it
cost to keep in proper going order during
the years you will want to use it.
H you buy a cheap "pattern” bicycle you will probably
prove to your sorrow that it will have cost you twre
the amount of a machine built of Genuine B b.A.
F.ttings. Don’t run any risk, have a B.S.A. Bicycle
built of Genuine B.S A. Fittings—it is cheapest in the
end.
REMEMBER—ALL B.S.A. PARTS
PERFECTLY INTERCHANGEABLE.
Write for B.S.A. Handbook.
Y. RENNIE (Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS, MELBOURNE,
LOOK FOR
THIS MAI.K
WHEN YOU
BUY A
BICYCLE.
B.S.A*
B.S.A.
SPARE
PARTS
OBTAINABLE
EVhBY-
WIIERE
IN
AUSTRALIA.
Ride a Bicycle
Built of Genuine
BSA
Fittings
Cheapest
in the end
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub. Free Wheel
on both gears, Back-pedalling and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop Tyres. As
ridden by FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
ANTHONY NORD€RN SONS LTD.,
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Mill, Sydney.
ARE YOU
DEAF?
If you are deaf or going deaf, you will be glad to
hear of a simple and scientific device which restores
hearing, no matter how old you are. No mystery or
secrecy about it; we describe it fully, and explain
just how it acts. You use spectacles as sight magni-
fiers, and in the same way you use this sound magni-
fier to hear better. Unlike spectacles, the Wilson
Common-sense Ear-Drums are invisible and comfort-
able. No one can tell you are wearing them. They
rest the ear nerves by taking the strain off them
the strain of trying to hear indistinct sounds. What
a relief to have done with that tiring strain. Being
made of the softest Para rubber they cannot be felt,
even when the head rests on a pillow. For the same
reason, a blow on the side of the head will not hurt
the ear. They protect the tender inner parts of the
ear, that are so sensitive, from cold winds, dust, sud-
den and piercing sounds.
So that you may clearly understand how the Sound
Magnifiers restore hearing, we give an illustration of
one as it lies in the ear. You will notice that the
Sound Magnifier is shaped like g trumpet, and so con-
veys even the faintest sounds right to the natural
drum. Being of the softest rubber, it cannot hurt
the ear. It fits the ori-
fice of the ear with pre-
cision and comfort. The
division that runs across
the mouth is to allow the
removal and insertion of
the Ear-Drum, and to
brace it.
The shape of the Wilson
Ear-Drum has been chosen
after years of experience as
the best adapt-
ed to carry the
faintest sour'd.
Of course, if
you have lost
the he a r ing-
nerve com-
pletely, or were
born deaf, we
cannot pretend
to cure you. Only a miracle could
do that, in spite of some of the
absurd claims made to-day. But
if you can hear the faintest sound,
do not despair. You will never
regret trying the Wilson Ear-
Drums. We have letters to show
you from deaf people in Australia
and New Zealand, who have been
cured, and you can be cured, too. You may wear
the Ear-Drums day and night, and take them out
whenever you wish. Children can wear them (we
have special sizes for children from six to twelve).
Even a child can insert and remove them without
the least danger.
The price is £1 (the fee for a doctor's single
visit). This includes a pair of drums (they are only
sold in pairs), a fine nickel remover, and also an
inserter. After the first pair is bought you may pur-
chase a single drum at any time for Bs., but the
pair you get at first will last quite two years. Do
not ask for a trial pair. We do not send’ them out
on trial, and so they are never secondhand. Use the
Order Form below, and the Outfit will be sent you
at once, with the fullest instructions. Don’t delay,
but have the comfort of good hearing as soon as you
can.
ORDER FORM.
STAR NOVELTY CO ,
103 Arlington Chambers,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please send me an Outfit containing a pair of
Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums, an Inserter and a
Remover, for which I enclose One Pound.
Name
Address
NOTE.—Send Money Order or Postal Note. If a
Bank Note or Sovereign is sent, you must register it.
IQ
Miliars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wk Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LOUD STREET, PERTH, VV.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68$ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
For the Country Horseman
The saddle here illustrated is expressly designed
for country use, for stock riding, etc., and is built
of the best materials throughout. If any of our
friends are requiring such a saddle they will find
this a genuine bargain.
V
It has a hogskin seat, a plated bar-tree, extra
long flaps, with points to buckle below. An economi-
cal feature is the skirt, which extends all round
and thus adds years of wear to the saddle by pro-
tecting its interior from the weather. It has a
deep, “sweepy” seat, 4in. kneepads, nickel-plated
iron stirrups, and double buckle leather girth. The
price complete is £3/15/- Mention of The
Bulletin when ordering will ensure your having a
leather surcingle given in free, and the saddle will
be forwarded freight paid. It is to be obtained
from J. P. Talty, 388 Sussex Street, Sydney.
/
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘ARABIS’
Egyptian Henna before all others; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in.
ferior imitations to deceive you. Look for the sigug.
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/8,
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.


Martin’s Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. Ladies recommend
them. Re sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
(t
PacK Your Needs in a
DEFIANCE” SUIT CASE.
The frame is of steel, the body of tough fibre, protected by leather corners
and two nickel double-action lever locks. “ Feather ” light and travel-proof.
Three sizes2s/-, 27/6, 30/- Only obtainable at
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
BRISBANE.
TOWNSVILLE.
TOOWOOMBA.
Freedom, Ease 8 Comfort
The ...
WELMAR
Skirt
Pat. 1274
24/5/’ 11.
Stocked by
Leading
Mercers and
Outfitters.
Manufactured by
Welch, Margetson 8 Co.
Pty. Ltd.
<3*
NO LONGER TROUBLED.
“1 had sick headache caused by liver disorder and
irregularity of the bowels,” writes Mrs. Jane Royes,
Ravenswood, Q. “A few doses of Chamberlain’s Tab-
lets quickly relieved me, and after taking- them regu-
larly for a short time my liver was in perfect order,
and I was no longer troubled with sick headache.
Now if I feel out of sorts I take a dose or two of
Chamberlain’s Tablets, and am soon myself again.’
Missing Friends.
A Federal Detective Agency.
j. CANTLON
(late Victorian Detective Police) rnder-
takes Commercial, Confidential, Next of Km.
Missing Friend and Matrimonial Enquiries,
Searches. Surveillance.
49 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
CN OSDEN. THOMAS and ROBERT
K PATTERSON, both formerly ot
Eudunda, S.A.. please communicate with
the undersigned Solicitors for the Trustees
of Hiram Gosden, deceased. Thomas is
believed to be a drover or station hand m
Queensland. Robert was last heard of from
Bowning, N.S.W. Anyone giving informa-
tion of their whereabouts or proof of death
will be suitably rewarded.
HOMBURG, MELROSE & HOMBURG,
Solicitors,
Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
1> ELATIVES of the late ROBERT
V MOORE STEVEN FINDLAY, who
died at the Victoria River, Northern Terri-
tory, on 15th May. 1912. are requested to
communicate with the Public Trustee. Da -
win, Northern Territory. Mr. Findlay m
believed to have been a native of armaui'
bool, Victoria.
BANANA LAND
Once again it is rumored that Kidston is
to re-enter politics. Those who know him
best are the most sceptical. As Land Court
Commissioner Wullie gets a salary of four
figures-—and he comes from Falkirk.
A Cremation Bill, lately passed by the
Leg. Council, threatened to be shelved in-
definitely, but the Assembly was urged last
week to treat it as a burning question, and.
recognising that there was something in this
plea, parties sank their differences and put
the desirable thing through.
The shoe is pinching in some of those dis-
tricts in Bananaland where there is a short-
age in railway earnings, and the deficit has
to be met by the land-owners of the benefited
area. A man told the Railways Minister
sorrowfully the other day that his share of
the contribution to a shortage line would be
30s. per week—“and,” he added, “land is
going down in value.” It is good that some-
thing stops the use of the air pump.
A Brisbane speculator happened into the
Lands Office on a recent sale day. An allot-
ment on the left bank of the Caboolture River
was under the hammer. He had interests
there, so he handed over £5l for it. When he
got home and had time to digest the surveys,
he found that in May last he had bought
the same piece of land from the local coun-
cil at an arrears-of-rates sale for £2. He
is now hankering after his £5l, and has
thoughts of sueing the Government for false
pretences, or whatever the law calls it.
There is so much spare land in the Northern
State that half the time nobody knows who
owns what.
The Walter Russell Hall Trust donations
to the Bananaland hospitals have proved a
godsend, as most of the institutions were on
their uppers. But a beetle has appeared
even in this welcome windfall, the Govern-
ment having refused to subsidise the moneys
on the ground that they are bequests. A
few of the absolutely stony, like Roekhamp
ton, told such a pitiable tale to Denham
that he gave them £ for £, and now he is
facing the music on a charge of discrimina-
tion. Dalby. for its part, got legal advice
on the matter, and has been advised that
the moneys are donations, and not bequests,
and are thus due for subsidy, so Denham
may have to pay up all round, after all.
Incidentally the beer fines have been taken
from the hospitals, and to counterbalance
the loss the hospitals have asked for a tax
on picture shows and such things. Truly the
scramble for funds to pay for keeping the
State’s sick people alive is a humiliating
business altogether.
Robert Philp, the alleged Protectionist, is
up against the absentee tax; it “created
more prejudice against the State than it
was worth.” Customs duties also create a
prejudice against the State, for the foreign
manufacturer hates them. Does Robert,
the Protectionist, think that sufficient reason
for abolishing Customs duties? Instead of
doing anything so foolish Robert and other
Protectionists say: “Come here and make
your goods, and you’ll escape taxation.” The
absentee tax says exactly the same thing:
“Come here and invest your money, and so
far as I am concerned you’ll pay nothing.”
Queensland Savings Bank publishes in
the Gazette a list of the credit accounts of
over £3 which have been so long “dead”
that they have been passed to a special
“unclaimed deposits” ledger. The list runs
to the length of many newspaper columns,
and gives a pretty good idea of the pickings
which “unclaimed deposits” may mean to a
bank. Tommy Tanna seems to have been a
particularly casual customer —or it may be
that Tommy died with extraordinary
rapidity in the land where the discolored
gentleman was supposed to thrive. Any-
way, there are dozens of Tommy Tannas on
the list; for instance. Charlie, of Meteor
Downs, £214; Bob Gulling, of Rockhamp-
ton, £347; Lona, of Nebo. £79. Still there
are half a dozen “white” names for every
Tommy Tanna —some of them opposite
amounts running close up to £5OO. Heaven
only knows what tragedies are buried in
such a catalogue.
RECKLESS
PRODIGALITY.
MRS. MANGLES:
“I ain’t goin' in
there — that’s a
smoking com-
partment.”
Bill Mangles
(justly an-
noyed): "Wot,
d'yer expect me
to frow away
me ceegar?”
“Politicos”: Why does the Government
trouble the Railway Commissioner for a
report on every proposed extension? The
late Commissioner utterly condemned the
Port Alma line and damned the Tara exten-
sion, and the present Commissioner now
damns the Via Recta. Yet Port Alma was
built; so was Tara; and the Via Recta, de-
spite its recent rejection, looks as though it
will win through in a year or two. Why
worry about official reports? Count up log-
rollers and go ahead !
The Brisbane sewerage scheme is being
treated like several other important schemes
—the Sydney bridge, for instance. It is so
necessary that the Government recognises
that on no account must a mess be made of
it; wherefore successive Ministries do the
next worst thing and leave it alone, and thus
have the money to spend on something else
which doesn’t offer the same excuses for
delay. However, as the Treasurer reports
that “the scheme is still receiving much con-
sideration,” it is quite liable to come within
the life of the youngest inhabitant.
“Rangan”: Denham’s Minister for Agri-
culture White is a shining example of what
a Minister ought not to be. He reports that
“the conditions in Queensland are not so
favorable to the development of agriculture
as in the other States.” This is merely
shirking the responsibility for poor work.
Queensland has only half a million acres
under crops, while N. S. Wales, Victoria and
South Aus. have each over three millions.
Even Westralia has over a million. In
sugarcane, almost Queensland’s monopoly,
N. S. Wales oroduces 28 tons per acre to
Queensland’s 16 —which is disgraceful. It’s
time White shook up the department, or
somebody shook off White.
A genial Judge in the early days of
Quensland used to “go circuit” to an out-
west township, where there was no church
and no parson. The Judge, who arrived on
Friday evening, was asked by deputation to
read the Anglican prayers at the court-house
on the following Sunday, and on no account
to omit the prayer for rain, as there had been
a 12-months’ drought. The Judge promised,
and duly officiated on the Sunday ; but, some-
how, in place of reading the prayer for
rain, he turned over the wrong leaf, and
substituted the “thanksgiving for rain.” The
subject was mentioned to him after church,
and his mistake pointed out. “Look here,
boys,” said he. “It’s never a good plan to
open a fresh account before you’ve squared
off the old debt. I’ll be bound ye niver
thanked Providence for the last batch of rain
ye got, and owe for it still. Now I’ve
squared that bill for ye, and ye can ask for
more with a clean conscience.”
.Tudve Rutledge, who looks all his 73,
uearly hurst with indignation at the Goondi-
windi sessions. He had summed up against
an alleged cattle-stealer, but the jury found
accused Not Guilty; whereupon the packed
courthouse rang for two minutes with
cheers. The .Judge directed the orderlies
to locate .some of the offenders, and the
“Johns” duly made an invidious selection of
three: Then for 48 minutes by the clock his
Honor lectured the trio on the enormity of
their offence. It gave the old Judge a rare
opportunity to attest his wonderful mental
capacity by quoting off-hand English and
Australian cases galore, Regina versus a
dozen or so, and Rex versus even more,
mostly with something boiling at the end
of them. The batch expressed profound
contrition when the lesson was ended—and
that, of course, was the finish of it.
The Palace of Peace.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I saw a stately palace on a hill,
Of marble pale and pure;
It shimmered whitely in the glance of morn,
x\lone, serene, secure;
And I, a stranger, wondered who lived there
Secluded thus in such a mansion fair.
I neared at last a shining portico,
Intent to push my way ;
But of a sudden came a lady forth,
Her brow as bright as day ;
And I grew bold at sight of that dear face
And, begging pardon for my want of grace,
Inquired : “O lady, wouldst thou kindly tell
Whose palace this may be?”
Straight from her smiling lips the answer
fell:
“’Twas builded, friend, for me —
Built for my refuge in a parlous age
When brutal men and brutal passions rage.
“My name is Peace, and long without a
home
I wandered far and w r ide,
By fierce barbarians daily driven forth,
Unsure of time and tide;
Until men builded me this mansion dear
And fenced it round, and bade me linger
here.
“I am, thou seest, the tenant of the place;
No other home I own ;
And from its open windows oft I hear
The blasts of battle blown.
But if I dare to pass the threshold o’er
They drive me back with gun-butts to the
door.
“Aye, well they say the Palace is of Peace,
For if I seek a bed
In any land but this, the warring clans
Heap curses on my head ;
This is. and has been since my lowly birth,
The only place I occupy on Earth.”
QUEENSLAND.
F. B.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, November 15 ;
My Dear Tiiargomindaii.—
The lady Governor yesterday mado B
declaration to the eltect that the new mL
air ward of the Lady Lamington
was well and truly laid, or sa fdv P 3
soundly built, or something to that effect t
don’t know the exact trade term, but it was
quite all right, because members of the TZh
Governors’ Industrious Union of \
Trumperies have to know all these thinl!
Amongst the respectful audience was tt
chief of the Macgregor clan or tribe, and hi
few remarks were calculated to make 11!!
committee and its supporters embrace him
on the spot. U 1
The Vision and 30 or 40 faithful helnm
are busy preparing their contribution to the
Bose Day fete It is to be a large consign!
ment of baskets of sweets; hence numbers
ot our suburban mansions have lately been
turned into mere lolly factories Bin
there, my dear, it is not every day that one
has an opportunity to help the Vision
the Children’s Hospital in such a pleasant
manner.
Considering the season, there have been
lately, a few social entertainings above the
average. On Monday night Lieut.-Col God!
dard and the officers of the 7th Infantry
earned the murmured thanks of the Orna-
mental Classes, for taking them on a river
trip aboard the Emerald. The regiment is
noted for its hospitality, and that evening
in its aim to entertain, it showed the old'
deadly precision.
Honorable mention is also made of the
Musical Union’s concert last Tuesday. Mrs
Gilbert Wilson —beautifully frocked, as
usual —was singer-in-chief, and deserved all
the nice things said about her. She is un-
loading her voice to-night at the Continental
in Dutton Park, which place of entertain-
ment has once more been taken over by
enterprising Hugh Black.
The marriage drought, which has been
causing anxiety, appears to be breaking up.
Next week is to witness at least two wed-
dings. On Wednesday (25th) the elder
O’Hagan daughter will take for better, or as
much of it as possible, one Campbell Ram-
say, from Victoria. Ivo Brennan and H. C.
Mustard will take their plunge two days
later. Besides getting a new name, the
bride will have a new home in Malaysia, so
she may be said to be in for a warm time.
Our ’Varsity students’ energy is as limit-
less when the thermometer stands at 90 deg.
as when it is at 50 deg. In fact, I’m begin-
ning to think the Northern climate is a
swindle and a Fiji uncle. This afternoon
the annual cricket match between St. John’s
and King’s College took place at the Exhibi-
tion Oval, in the vicinity of a large number
of more or less admiring fellow scholars.
All present were tea-ed by some of the heads
of the University. To-night a number of
the students, who have styled themselves
“The Khayyamites,” held their initial bean-
feast at Eschenhagen’s. The old tent-
maker’s banquet of a loaf of bread and a
flask of wine was a mere circumstance to it.
Of course O. Khayyam had “Thou” (he
didn’t mention her front name) as a frill
to the meal, which probably made a differ-
ence. On Thursday next the Students
will have another rush into the limelight,
when a dramatic entertainment of some sort
will be given. The coins derived therefrom
are going to a fund for the proposed Resi-
dential College for Women.
It’s not all ice-cream and strawberries
being honorary pianiste to a musical society,
but Miss Essie Lloyd (who has for the past
six years been the good Samaritan to the
Musical Union) last week reaped a share
of the just reward for her labors, when the
conductor and members loaded her down with
a silver hot-water kettle, a set of entree
dishes, other metal ware, and enough com-
pliments to float a wreck. The presentation
was in honor of the fast-approaching date
when the popular miss will be a missus.
The Overseas Club shivooed on board the
Lucinda this afternoon. The star feature
of the entertainment was the exhibition of
a handsome cabinet, made of Queensland
woods, which is destined to adorn the War-
rego when she pokes into this port. Two
large silk flags are also to form part of the
Overseas Club’s presentation to the gun-
boat.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.


THE EXPEPIENCED
BECAUSE
THEY tfIVE
THE
<iPEdTEST
MILE/36E
NOTOPIST
ft
I
■
t
¥
w
SO:
7- tl_l
Q
(A
(U
1—
jr iu
r~ Is)
in 1
-I*
-j u
* c
mnP *


Weighed
only 9 lb.
“My little daughter was so
ill that she had to be carried
on a pillow until 11 months
old and only weighed 9 lb.
Thanks to SCOTT’S Emul-
sion, at 18 months she could
walk, talk, and
had all her teeth.
She is now two years old*and
weighs 26 lb., yet everyone
thought she would be a life-
long invalid. Herrobust health
is remarkable testimony to the
wonderful curative power of
SCOTT’S.”—(Mrs.) A. Ashley,
Victor Street, Maylands,
Adelaide, S. Australia. 15/7/12
SCOTTS
Emulsion
TRADE
Sa
MARK
Every package of the genuine SCOTT’S
bears the fishman trade mark.
Jlpollinaris
Animal filling at tiie Anollinaris Spring
Year 1901 - - - 27,000,000 Bottles
Year 191! ■ - - 37,009,000 Bottles
“ THE QUEEN OF TABLE WATERS’ ’
LACTOBACILLINE
TABLETS and POWDER
Prepared under the authority and scientific control
of PROFESSOR METCHINKOFF, Lactobacilline com-
bats, and arrests the development of pathogenic and
putrefactive germs in the intestinal canal.
By this action Lactobacilline not only exerts a
powerful influence in the restoration to and main-
tenance of perfefct general health, but is specially in-
dicated in AFFECTIONS OF THE DIGESTIVE
'TRACT.
Gastro-enteritis, muco-membranous entero-colitis,
constipation, intestinal tuberculosis, typhoid fever,
influenza, appendicitis and intestinal catarrh.
IN CASES OF AUTOINTOXICATIONS —cirrhosis
of the liver, chronic nephritis, arterio-sclerosis,
chlorosis, anaemia, dyspepsia, etc.
IN ALL CASES DUE TO ABNORMAL INTES-
TINAL FERMENTATION: DISTURBANCES OF
SECRETION of bile and pancreatic juice (gallstone),
pancreatic diabetes.
The tablets are put up in glass cylinders, and are
packed in boxes each containing 8 cylinders. Price,
5/6 per box. Each cylinder and box bears the words,
“Le Ferment Seul Fourn. seur du Professor Metchni-
koff,” without which none are genuine.
Lactobacilline can be ordered through any chemist.
Full particulars can be obtained from the Societe
le Ferment, Australasia Chambers, 406-414 Queen
Street, Brisbane; or Branches: Vickery’s Chambers,
■B2 Pitt Street, Sydney ; Safe Deposit Buildings, Queen
Street, Melbourne; Ellershaw’s Buildings, Cliff Street,.
Fremantle; Smeeton’s Buildings, Queen Street,
Auckland.
An Excellent Field Class
THE KEW
is a very high-grade
English - made Field
Glass of excellent
power,' splendid defini-
tion, large field, achro-
matic lenses, solid one-
piece aluminium body,
Morocco Leather cov-
ered. KEW certificate
with each glass.
I
Solid Leather Case,
Post Free,
£5.
A. P. GREENFIELD 8 CO. LTD.,
OPTICIANS,
189-191 George Street, Brisbane, Q.
APENTA
NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
'Obtainable all Cbemlat*.
1
L..SC
.
I!
A HOME FOR
MELBOURNE GUESTS.
¥
♦
Corner Flinders Street
and Spencer Street,
MELBOURNE.
Sir Charles Hotham
Hunyadi Janos
Indiscretions of diet are the most frequent cause of liver complaints.
Other contributing factors are excess of alcohol and lack of exercise.
To safely and speedily overcome such a condition there is no better
remedy than the taking of a wine-glassful of Hunyadi Janos Natural
Aperient Water before breakfast every day for a week or fortnight,
which has the happy effect of relieving in an almost instantaneous
manner any congestion of the liver.
Hunyadi Janos is obtainable at all chemists.
The famous NATURAL Aperient Water
THE
A'
rV-t->
f;-:
■set
«SiTLa-..£'5^2
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
ESTABLISHED 1858.
Capital Paid Up, £1,498,220. Reserve Fund, £405,000.
Reserve Liability of Shareholders, £715,464.
Directors 4 JOHN GRICE, Esq., EDWARD TRENCHARD, Esq., H. M. STRACHAN, Esq.,
J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq.
Chief Manager: E. H. WREFORD.
HEAD OFFICE, MELBOURNE. Branches in Victoria, South Australia,
Western Australia, New South Wales.
LONDON OFFICE: 5 Bishopsgate, E.C.
HAVE REGARD TO YOUR
BEST INTERESTS BY APPOINTING
The Permanent Trustee Company
of New South Wales Ltd.
Executors, Trustees, Administrators, Agents, etc.
AMPLE SECURITY ASSURED. TRUST ACCOUNTS ALWAYS OPEN TO INSPECTION.
ESTATES AND PROPERTIES EFFICIENTLY MANAGED.
EVERY DESCRIPTION OF TRUSTEE WORK UNDERTAKEN. FULL DETAILS ON APPLICATION.
17 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager. [1
GET BUSY.
START SPEEDING UP.
Blunt tools soon make a man blunt. Be
sharp—what you want is Banks’ Ball-
bearing Treadle Grindstone. No handle to
turn —by using your feet both hands can be
devoted to the delicate work of sharpening.
As easy as riding a bike down hill —nothing
to get out of order —one of the greatest time
and labor savers for the man who uses
cutting tools. Reliable and good.
Price 37/6.
John Danks & Son
PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
The House for Tools,
324 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Near Liverpool Street),
391 EHURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
Jj
The Man Who Shaves with a “PLUM” RAZOR
gets a clean, comfortable shave every time —no dragging no tearing
—but easy cutting all the way. . , alHror Steel,
The blade of a Plum Razor is made of specially tempered a
that keeps a keen edge.
You can’t beat a Plum for satisfaction and service.
Get one to-day—lo/6 each, post free. , cliar g e .
We guarantee to keep it in perfect order for two years, fi
ALL POST FREE. 10/6
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle •>-(/.
Pair, in Double Case, an excellent set ?5/6
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, splendid quality ~0/.
Pair, in Double Case, a handsome present ' A nJQ
Plum Razor Strop 3/6
Other Good Kinds, thoroughly reliable •/ ' , j/„
Plum Strop Dressing makes keener blades }/.
Stick of Shaving Soap that lathers freely j /.
Razors Ground and Set with care ' 5/6
Safety Razors, handy and efficient 'oti.isrht—
C. &A. Moustache Trainer, shapes the moustache, worn at » 5/6
>, ■ Send for our Illustrated Price List. Z/n, «>/ 1
V-
V 6
CRAIG & AITREN,
654
GEORGE STREET
ESTABLISHED 30 YfARS.
SYDNEY
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
L. But: Don’t wonder any longer. We’ve
flung that little gibe at him off and on for at least
seven years... .A.L.8.: Sorensen said it “about two
years ago,” and you are replying now. Young man,
you have missed the ’bus.... Voyageur: Naturally
have no recollection of it after 12 months. Scores
of contributions are not referred to here. When, for
instance, a man who habitually sends stuff to market
has a contribution thrown out, he wouldn’t thank us
to have it stated that he had produced a rotten-
bad story. He prefers that the mistake should be
passed over in silent grief.... K.: Well, two men
have read this batch, and neither can find anything
worth space in it. Sorry.... M.P.S.: Too trivial.
....Farthing Dip: Before the Commonwealth Oil
Corporation ever started to get its works ready, this
paper repeatedly expressed the opinion that the con-
cern was over-capitalised and that the promoters’
•‘rake-off” was excessive. It never changed that
opinion or expressed any other. But it did say that
the..oil industry is so vastly important that State-
assistance was warranted; and it says so 5ti11....
W.H.L.: Can’t do that; but will forward a letter
if you care to send one addressed to this office....
Bulli: It's a good yarn, but it’s also an old one. . . .
W.H.P.: You ought to have good stuff, but the
samples to hand are too trifling. Will probably use
one par.... Jan: Can’t remember all pars sent in
and what becomes of them. Those that don’t appear
disappear, that’s all. Last par of yours not up....
A.H. (S.A.): Sorry neither. The variations neces-
sary to make the words fit the music seem to mar it
for reading. . . .R.J.McD. (M.L.) : Afraid the post
must have swallowed it. The office detective reports
“no trace.”... .Syd D.: N 0... .Ragtime: Too scrappy.
It blew out of its own accord. .. .D. 8.: Rhyme
promises well, but fails.... Edwin B.: Send it to
your young friend, by all means... .J.L.1.: Not con-
vincing... .Gaboy: Ragged, jerky story in a very
untidy 'fist. ...B.: Both unsuitable... .Premo : De-
clined on religious grounds. .. .Arthur S. K.: Feeble
verse. .. .J.E.8.: Mechanical yarn. It creaks all the
way. . . .R.A.A.S.: Unsuitable. ~ . J.K.O’K.: Turn
it off!. .. .R.C.A.: You say you cannot hide her
voice from your ears. Neither can we. .. .Fishbolt:
Your approach on all fours is most flattering, but
the sketch won’t do. There is a fatal sameness
about these descriptions of two-up schools. .. . G.E.C.:
Don’t care for the coal item. .. .R.N.C. (Q.) : You
appear to be under the influence of Henley—either
too much or too little... .C.P.C.: Not much in it,
and what there is isn’t well served... .E.H. (W.A.):
.Sorry Reilly drags a little. .. .Esto P.: A bit below
print level. No name or address attached. Got any?
....Tea T.: “In November” is in the basket....
L.N.: Too late and too bad. If it had arrived
earlier it wouldn’t have had a chance, and if it had
been better than it is, it would have been too late.
It’s a hopeless propostion whichever way you look at
it....G.8. : Not bad stuff, but there has been a lot
of bright verse on that subject. . . .W. O’C. (M.L.) :
Send it direct to Carson. It should annoy
him considerably.... R. Jackson: No, thanks.
.. . . J.A.C.: Shepherd verses of jio value....
Black Arrow: “Lightning leaps with fear-
ful pace.” So it does; it leaps'like lightning....
Bill: Dull item....B. F-R. : Pale blue “have” story
declined wearily. .. .Pana: Poem starts from nothing
and ends nowhere. ...G.K.: Adaptation of an antique
jest. There is a time limit, you know. .. .Alfalfa:
According to a correspondent, who calls himself
“Sunny Jim,” “the White Cross League takes the
place of Arthurian knighthood, and aims at curing
the male of his f propensity for smutty yarns, educat-
ing him out of his indulgence in the glad eye, and
securing his co-operation in the safe incarceration of
the old Adam. The prevalence of self-abuse among
bovs, the solicitation of street women, the traffic
of brothel, and the threatened prominence of the
White Slave Traffic compose the cause of its exist-
ence. It is actively engaged in a system of educa-
tion in sexual physiology. In some of the State
schools of Victoria and New South Wales addresses
are being given in the functioning of the reproduc-
tive organs. These lectures are graded to suit vary-
ing ages, yet much room for improvement is needed.
So far, they have not been recognised officially.”....
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Eric D.: Go away and play and work for seven
years. Then, if you still think you can draw, let’s
hear from y0u.... Pompon: There isn’t a picture in
it.
“Silas Snell” gives the whole show away:
My friend Rose is an artist,, and an excellent artist
too, * although it was a long time before his native
country consented to put his talent to good use. A
few years back, in one of his bad periods, when the
rent was more overdue than usual, and the bailiff
had deserted, him because there was nothing in the
house to sit on, Rose secured a commission from a
neighbor, who was a temperance fanatic and lecturer,
to paint a drunkard’s liver. Rose had never seen a
drunkard’s liver, and none of his drunken friends
would submit to a surgical operation in the interests
of art. So the poor painter, in the absence of the
living model, painted the goods from the lay figure—-
a colored plaster cast then being displayed in the
window of Melbourne Temperance Hall. When an
excellent life-size portrait was completed, the tem-
perance orator-went back on his order. He had been
converted to bowls, or something. To soften the blow,
however, he undertook to give the price agreed upon
£3—for a painting suitable for a drawing-room.
Rose went home, turned the liver upside down, dashed
in a lurid sun over the top, stuck a dead tree in the
right-hand corner, and delivered the framed result to
our art patron, labelled “Sunset on Mount Ararat.”
The story does not end here. More recently, when
Rose had developed into a fairly successful brush, he
held a one-man show in Melbourne, and a good
buyer turned up. “Do you know,” he said, “I have
already got a little . painting of yours ? I picked it
up cheap; but it’s a remarkably clever thing. I
doubt if you’ve done anything better. It is called
‘Sunset on Mount Ararat.’ ”
From the Oldest Inhabitant: —
Apropos the Cheeke-Callaghan anecdote (B.
23/10/’l3). Alfred Cheeke was called to the Eng-
lish Bar in 1835, came to Sydney 1837, and got into
practice at once. In 1811 he was appointed Crown
Prosecutor, and so moved onward to the Supreme
Court Bench. Tom Callaghan was called to the
Irish Bar in 1839, came to Sydney in 1810, and was
appointed a Crown Prosecutor in 1811, the same year
as Cheeke. In December, 1814, he became Chairman
of Sessions, and in 1859 was appointed one
of “the first District Court Judges. Like Cheeke, he
was fond of a good horse, and in 1863, being at
Braidwood, purchased a colt in the saleyards
there. Two men were drafting the animals from one
yard to another when the one the Judge had pur-
chased charged the sliprails, against which its new
owner was standing. One bar, torn from the mortise
hole, struck his Honor on the jaw, smashing it and
doing other damage. Callaghan was soon able to
get about his room, and insisted on taking a walk
in the hotel garden. Dr. Beer endeavored to dissuade
him, without avail. That night he was worse, and
the family medical attendant, Dr. Nathan, was wired
for. But Nathan could not leave Sydney, so Mrs.
Callaghan’s brother, Dr. Milford, went inst«ad. ( The
latter decided that the case was hopeless— aud so it
proved. The remains were interred at 1> -> idwood
(in St. Bede’s churchyard), and a handsome monu-
ipent was placed over the grave by public subscrip-
tion. Mrs. Callaghan still lives at her home, Avoca,
Randwick, with her only daughter, Mrs. Auber-Jones.
Her father was Justice Milford, of an old Devonshire
family; he died in 1865, and there is a fine window
in St. Andrew's Cathedral provided by the Bar of
N. S. Wales in memory of him and Justice Wise,
Bernhard’s father.


Australian Mutual Provident Society.
NEXT ANNUAL DISIRIBI TION OP PROFITS AS AT 31st DECEMBER, 1913.
shared Bonus’ 1 /”he ’then ordinary Department before the close of the current year will
Cash Bonus Divided for Year 1912 071
Yielding Reversionary Additions to Policies of over - k nioooo
Total Cash Bonuses Distributed. . . 6 °* OVer ' '' '
NOW TS THE Tllrfte to effect, an assurance or a further assura n ’ ’
benefit of this vear’s Bonus. * runner assurance on your ..life, in order to reap the
of th7»ciet£ fUII PartiCUlarS t 0 thC Head ° fflce ’ 87 Pitt Street, Sydney ;or any District Office or Agent
RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S., Geenral Manager' and Actuary.
____ H. W.' APPERLY, Secretary.
Bargains
FROM
ENGLAND
•>
BARGAINS
FOR
ALL.
PAWNBROKERS’
* Clearance Sale.
SEND AT ONCE FOR OUR
full list of
3,500
GENUINE BARGAINS.
ASTOUNDING VALUE.
mining over with money-saving possibilities.
Patronised by Royalty and the Nobility.
Bankers:
London County & Westminster Bank,
Camberwell Branch, London.
w
]•. have every confidence in our abilities to please onr Customers, lienee our remarkable
offer of Six Months' I-ree Approval. Examine the =.-.i,.m„ ,J '
, Kxamine the articles you may choose at vour
own convenience, in your own home, and if you are not delighted and full v satisfied with °he
h.gli quah y and exceptional value, return them to ns within six months and we w II
immediately return your deposit. c W 1
May we solicit a trial order P Absolute satisfaction guaranteed
or money returned in full.
TERMS OF BUSINESS.-Any Article Sent on Approval, Carriage
Free, on receipt of remittance. Cash refunded in full for goods
not approved and returned us within six months.
Read what “The Christian Age” says—
“PaVJS <fc Co., of 26 J>enniark Hill, have gained
considerable reputation for supplying unredeemed
pledges at very moderate prices. We gather from
their latest Bargain last that great savings can be
effected by purchasing a second-hand article of
jewellery which has just had enough wear to test
Its value at about one-third the original cost price.
Included in their catalogue are watches by some of
the fmest m deers in the world.”
Read what “Great Thoughts” says
“ There cannot exist much doubt as to the intrinsic
value of any advertised article when such advertisers
are willing to send the goods advertised on the
Approval System. This system is adopted by
Messrs. DAVIS <fc Co., and is a singular proof that
Messrs. DA\IS if- Co. have every belief in their
ability to please their customers and prove the
genuine nature of their announcements.”
14/6
Field, Race, or Marine Glasses.
£5/5/- Military Binocular (by Lefaier),
as supplied to officers in the Army and Navy ;
10 achromatic lenses ; 50 miles range ; shows
bullet mark at 1,000-yds.; saddler made case ;
great bargain ; sacrifice, 14/6.
Powerful £4/4/- Binocular Field
Glasses (by Chevalier) ; 10 lens
magnification power, brilliant definition, over
60 miles rauge, great depth of focus, large
field of view ; adjusted to the highest degree
of scientific accuracy; in saddler made sling
case; tremendous bargain ; sacrifice, £l/1/-
Powerful £B/8/- Double Draw Bino-
culars, 12 lens magnification power
(by Lumiere),'as supplied to H.R.H. the Crown
Prince of Greece ; most powerful glass made ;
name of ship can be distinctly read five miles
front shore; quick focus, brilliant field of view,
colourless achromatic crystal lenses, enhanced
stereoscopic effect, great penetration power ; in
solid brown English leather case; sacrifice,£l/17/6
Gent’s heavy 18-ct. Gold-cased
Keyless Lever Hunter Watch,
improved action (John Forrest, London); 10
years’ warranty; absolutely perfect timekeeper;
also Double Curb Albert, same quality with
handsome Compass attached ; all quite indis-
tinguishable from new; complete, sacrifice, 12/6.
Lady’s handsome 18-ct. Gold-cased
Keyless Watch, improved action
(Allen & Co., London); exact timekeeper; 10
years’ warranty; also long Watch Guard, elegant
design, same quality; together, sacrifice, 12/6.
(Worth £4/4/-). Real Russian Furs.
Rich, dark sable brown Fur, 8-ft.
long; Granville Stole, deep shaped collar,
beautifully trimmed, 12 tails and head-;; large
Grannv Muff matching; together, 15/6.
(Worth £5/5/-). Real Russian Furs.
Rich, dark sable brown, extra long
Princess Stole, trimmed with head and tails at
hack and on shomders ; also large animal Muff ,
with heads and tails hanging; in perfectly new
condition ; together, great sacrifice, £l/2/6.
Gent’s fashionable Double Albert,
18-ct. Gold (stamped) It lied, curb
pattern, heavy solid links; sacrifice, 12/6.
Lady’s £4/4/- 18-ct. Solid Gold, hall-
marked, Diamond and Sapphire
Doublet Half-hoop Ring, claw setting, large
faultless stones; sacrifice, 18/6.
Lady’s £l3/13/- 5-Stone Diamond
and Sapphire Half-hoop Ring, 18-ct.
Gold, Government hall-marked, claw setting,
containing two large round diamonds of dazzling
whiteness and three beautiful sapphires of
richest quality ; sacrifice, £3/10/-
Gent’s £4/4/- fashionable Dark Grey
Tweed Jacket Suit (bv Stroud,
High-class Tailor) ; splendid quality, latest
West End cut and finish, never worn ; breast
39-in., waist 36-in., length 32J-in. ; £l/6/6.
21/-
37/6
12 6
12/6
fd
22/6
12/6
18/6
70
26 6
26/6
Lady's £5/5/- Solid Gold English,
- . hall-marked, Keyless Watch, highly
finished jewelled movement, exact timekeeper,
richly engraved; 12 years’ warranty; £l/6/6.
Magnificent Gent’s £l3/13/- Single
Stone Diamond Ring, exceptionally
fine pure white stone, perfect in every respect,
mounted in 18-ct. Gold, Government hall-
marked, claw setting ; sacrifice, £3/10/- s.
Lady’s £5/5/- Solid Gold long Watch
Guard, handsome and very stylish
in pattern, stamped and guaranteed, in faultless
and new condition ; sacrifice, £l/6/6.
Gent’s magnificent £ll/11/- Solid
Gold English, hall-marked, Keyless
l.ever, Centre Seconds, Chronograph Stop
Watch, exam, by celebrated watchmaker (W.
Russell., London); jewelled movement, perfect
reliability in any climate in the world ; timed to
a minute a month; 20 years’ warranty ; 6 months'
trial; great bargain ; sacrifice, £2/15/-
Lady’s magnificent £ll/11/- Diamond
- - _ and SapphireClusterßing, 18-ct. Gold,
hall-marked ; there are ten white and faultless
diamonds surrounding a superb sapphire of
richest quality ; to appreciate the full beauty of
this Ring it must be seen; sacrifice, £2/19/6.
Baby’s Long Clothes, superfine
. _ quality, magnificent £5/5/- parcel,
82 articles, everything required ; beautiful
garments; the'perfection of mother's personal
work; never worn ; great sacrifice, £l/9/6.
Valuable Violin (worth £lO/10/-),
perfect condition,labelled Stradivarius
Cremona, 1721; rich, mellow tone, with Bow
and Case, suit professional or soloist; £l/12/6.
(Worth £3/3/-). Choice Expanding
Watch Bracelet; finest workman-
ship, most successful ever invented, will fit
and grip any wrist, thereby avoiding all vibration
and ensuring perfect timekeeping; 18-ct. Gold-
cased ; 6 months’ trial; sacrifice, 13/6.
(Worth £l/15/-). Eight superfine quality
Chemises, Knickers, and Petticoats ;
magnificent parcel; sacrdic“, 12/9.
Spoons and’ Forks. (£lO/10/- Set).
A 1 quality, silver-plated on nickel
silver, stamped maker's initials, Queen Anne
pattern; 12 Table, 12 Dessert, 12 Tea Spoons,
12 Table, 12 Dessert Forks; Service 5-doz.;
wonderful bargain, £l/19/6; Half-Set, £l.
Fashionable Curb Chain Padlock
Bracelet, with safety chain, solid
links, 18-ct. Gold (stamped) filled, in velvet case ;
sacrifice, 10/6; another heavier, 12/6.
(Worth £“1/4/-). Twenty-four superfine
_ _ quality Nightdresses, Chemises,
Knickers, Petticoats, Combinations, &c.;
tremendous bargain ; sacrifice, £l/6/6.
Pretty Necklet, with Heart Pendant
attached, set Parisian pearls and tur-
quoises; elegant design; 18-C,t. Gold (siamped)
filled; in velvet ease ; bargain ) sacrifice, 6/9.
70/-
28/6
55/-
59 6
29/6
32/6
13/6
12/9
39/6
10/6
26/6
6/9
DAVIS & CO.
( D " L )
PAWNBROKERS,
26 DENMARK HtLL,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
hfd
You Can Grow a Moustache
—no matter how poor and thin your present growth may be —you can
grow a splendid Moustache if you use
CAPILLARINE.
A little Oapillarine rubbed in at night before retiring will make
the hair grow without causing the slightest injury to the skin.
For 30 years it has been proved successful—Try a jar.
PRICE 10/6 JAR, POST FREE.
The C. & A. Moustache Trainer, worn at night, shapes the moustache.
2/6, 3/6, 5/6, Post Free. Send for Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEIM,
654- George Street, Sydney.
Established 30 Years.
STEVENS
Double 8 Single Barrel Shotguns
have Barrels and Lugs Drop-Forged in one piece.
Made of Specially Selected Steel —Strongest
where other Guns are Weakest.
For Catalogue and detailed information write to
ARTHUR h. HILL,
Australian Representative for J. Stevens
Arms and Tool Company,
*
5
G.P.O. BOX 86,
ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
the: gun that is superior—
PIEPER BAYARD GUNS
*
are fitted with barrels bored from solid drop forged
decarbonised Steel, ensuring enormous strength.
All parts
interchangeable,
and stocked by
all Gunsmiths.
Si
Write to our Representative, W. A. COX, G.P.O. Box 873, Sydney, for
Booklets about Bayard Arms post free.
LKV
Solomon
Solution
The greatest remedy on earth for
strains and sprains—and many
other horse troubles.
arge Jars 5/- obtainable from Chemists, Stores,
and Saddlers everywhere. Post Free for 5/6
from
SOLOMON COX & SON,
439 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Kriischen
Salts
Sow so|d by Chemists throughout tne Commonwealth.
Wholesal; Importers:
H. & W. GREAR, 287, Jlarenc* Street, SYDNEY.
MOCtfL“L"
THE HEART OF THE AUTOMOBILE—
THE FAMOUS
Sche bier Carburetter
The best Carburetter for ALL PETROL ENGINES
—either Land or Marine, Stationary or Moving.
The Schebler makes your engine develop
greater horse-power for a less consumption
of fuel.
The Schebler holds many world’s records.
Booklet and' all information free.
Correspondence in vited.
ROBERT C. SWAN & CO. LTD.,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
Sole Agents for Australia.
TO-DA Y
if your baby is not thriving use the
‘Allenburys’ Foods. They develop
firm flesh and bone and promote robust health and vigour.
No digestive disturbance need be feared from the use of
these pure milk and malted foods.
MILK FOOD NO. 1.
From birth to 3 months.
MILK FOOD NO. 2.
From 3 to 6 months.
MALTED FOOD NO. 3.
From 6 months upwards.
*
*
Pamphlet on
Infant Feeding and
Management Free.
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd., Isondon, Sng.,
und MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Edison Wax Records
at Reduced Prices
Owners of Phonographs and those
about to purchase one can now secure
many fine records at prices consider-
ably lower than usual.
If you write us direct a complete
list of Edison Records and Phono-
graphs will be sent.
The reduced prices are:—
Edison Wax Standard Records, (2-
minute) :
Australia.. Reduced from 1/3 to 1 /-
N.Z. .. Reduced from 1/9 to 1/3
Edison Wax Amberol Records (4-
minute) :
Australia.. Reduced from 2/- to 1/6
N.Z. . . Reduced from 2/6 to 2/-
Edison Wax Amberol Concert Re-
cords: —
Australia.. Reduced, from 3/6 to 2/6
N.Z. .. Reduced from 4/6 to 3/6
Edison Wax Standard Grand Opera
Records:
Australia. . Reduced from 3/- to 2/-
N.Z. .. Reduced from 4/6 to 2/6
Edison Wax Amberol Grand Opera
Records (all types) :
Australia
N.Z. ..
Reduced from 4/6 d
Reduced from (j/0
Reduced from ti/6 '
9/S o*
Reduced from 6/-
Reduced from 8/6
Reduped from 1 0/6
to 4/6
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale only),
Dept. 8.. 364-372 KENT STREET, SYDNEY


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE. CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
Government Notices.
Department of Home Affairs,
Melbourne, 30th October, 1913.
KALGOORLIE TO PORT AUGUSTA
RAILWAY.
Tenders for Bogie Cattle and Bogie
Sheep Waggons (4ft. B% in. gauge).
TIIENDERS addressed to the Secretary,
JL Department of Home Affairs, Mel-
bourne, will be received up to 11 a.m. on
Tuesday, December 2nd, 1913, for the manu-
facture in Australia, supply and delivery of
15 Bogie Cattle Waggons, and
30 Bogie Sheep Waggons.
Plans, specifications, etc., will be on view
on and after November sth, 1913, at the
following offices :
Commonwealth Railways, 84 William
Street, Melbourne,
Commonwealth Works Director, Customs
H ouse, Sydney ; and
Commonwealth Works Registrars, Bris-
bane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
The charge for each copy of the specifica-
tion will 1 e £1 Is., and for each plan 55.,
which must be paid before the documents
can be issued.
Tenders are to be endorsed “Tender for
Bogie Cattle and Bogie Sheep Waggons,”
and are to be accompanied by the deposit
mentioned in the Form of Tender.
JOSEPH COOK.
Minister of State for Home Affairs.
Department of Home Affairs,
Melbourne, 10th November, 1913.
K A LGOO RLIE-I ’OUT AUG U STA
RAILWAY.
Galvanised Iron Wire.
QUOTATIONS, addressed to the
Engineer-in-Chief for Commonwealth
Railways, 84 William Street, Melbourne,
will be received up to 11 a.m. on the Ist
December for the supply and delivery of the
following :
Galvanised Ir n Wire to Fremantle and
Port Augusta re nectively—
2001b. per mile as per Postal Specifica-
tion No. 301 . . 22 tons
601 b. per mile as per Postal Specifica-
tion No. 5 . . . . . . 2 cwt.
Half the above quantity for delivery to
each port.
Full particulars will be obtainable at the
Commonwealth r 'a : !way’s Offices, 84 Wil-
liam Street, Melbourne, and also at the
offices of the Comm nwealth Works Direc-
tor, Customs Dou«e. Sydney; Commonwealth
Works Registrars. Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth
and Hobart.
Quotations are f•- be endorsed “Quotation
for Electric Staff Wire.”
JOSEPH COOK,
Minister of State for Home Affairs.
QR EAT COBAR, LIMITED, COB A R.
COBAR, COBAR GOLD, AND CHESNEY MINES.
COMPETENT MACHINE MINERS WANTED.
Average Earnings of Contract Parties last three
Months: —-
Stoping, per shift, 15/-
Development, per shift, 20/1.
Good Board and Lodging can be obtained within
few minutes’ walk of mines, at 20/- per week. House
rents average about 10/- weekly, bread 3d. 21b. loaf,
meat lowest rates in New South Wales, supplied from
the Company’s Bakery and Butchery.
Ample water supply, good school, good, dry, healthy
climate.
Apply—
GREAT COBAR, LIMITED,
COBAR, N. S. WALES.
TO ARTISTS
PRIZE of £lO 10s. is offered by
the. Proprietors of The Pastoral
Review for an accepted design for the
front cover. Details can be obtained
by application to either the Sydney or
Melbourne offices. The competition will
close on DECEMBER 10, and designs
must be delivered to The Pastoral
Review, 407 Collins Street, Melbourne,
on or before that date.
THIS ( V ?EDICI/>IE CHEST
SHOULD BE KM YQOR (iO^B
For the Bush Home, where
trie medical man may he miles
away, a Medicine Chest is often
the incansof savihgbfe. It certainly
does away with calling in a doctor for
minor ailments. We pack a chest con-
r taining a remedy for all ordinary illnesses
and accidents of life, prepared by a legally
qualified chemist according to the directions
of a leading physician. THERE ARE 25 REME-
DIES:— Liniments and Washes for Sprains and
Bruises: Ointments for external application:
Medicines and Powders for internal taking,
with full supply of Lints. Plasters. Bandages
etc. Mind there is no quackery about this
Chest, any open minded doctor to whom i
you show it will approve of it. Packed /
"carefully & sent to any address in
for Carriage Paid/^
25 1-
FREE OFFER—The
Home Medical Book
sent Post Free.
THE HOME <
PETRIES
I&DICt/NE SUPPLY
BIGHT 8R158&M6
Amusements.
H
Eli, JIA.IHSXV’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
QUINLAN GRAND OPERA.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 20 CARMEN
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 21 .. .. LA BOHEME
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 22..
CAVALLERIE RUSTICANA and PAGLIACCI
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 24 .. MANON LESCAUT
PLANS AT PALTNG’S.
Adelphi theatre, sydn E V.
Direction GEORGE WILLOUGHBY.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF
FOR THE TERM OF HIS NATURAL LIFE.
SATURDAY EVENING NEXT,
Brief Revival of Sydney’s Greatest Controversial Drama,
THE MONK AND THE WOMAN.
THE PLAY THAT MADE ALL SYDNEY TALK.
POPULAR PRICES: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-
PA I. Ac K TIIEAT It E. SVI)N E V.
Direction ALLEN DOONE.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF THE PARISH PRIEST.
SATURDAY NEXT, NOVEMBER 22.
First Production in Australia of the Patriotic Irish
Drama,
TII P It EBE L.
PRICES: 4/-, 2/6, 1/-
6d. extra.
Earlv Doors, Gallerv and Stalls,
BOX' PLAN AT PALING’S.
National, amphithkatkk, sydney.
Managing: Director : BEN J. FULLER.
BRENNAN-FULLER’S VAUDEVILLE CIRCUIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
LES BAU MALAGAS, Spanish Whirlwind Dancers.
BAILY’S POSING DOGS, Vaudeville’s Most Unique Act.
JOLLY FANNY RICE, Singing and Dancing Dolls.
THE GEORGIO TRIO, Singing, Dancing & Talking Act.
EDITH MOTE, WINIFRED STEW A RT.
THE STOREYS, MORRIS & SHAND, THE ROLVOS,
CARRINGTON, THE DRISCOLLS, MONS. HERBERT.
PRICES : 3/-, 2/-, 1/6, l/- Plan at Theatre.
T il E LI TT L E THEA T R E
OASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Commencing SATURDAY NEXT.
WILTON WELCH
Presents an Absorbing Drama of To-day, entitled
THE WARNING.
A Powerful Cast, including the well-known French-
Australian Actress,
LOUISE CARBASSE.
A Play that will Bring About a Moral Reform.
Box Plan Paling’s. 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-.
LACIAItICM AND OLYMPIA, SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
W EST’S PICT U B PS, LTD.
“BEST OF ALE.”
FAMILY MATINEE—SATURDAY.
DF. GROEN’S VICE REGAL 'ORCHESTRAS.
3d. to 2s. Plans at Nicholson’s (No Extra Fee).
!NCE R’S LYC E U iM, SYDNEY.
s
EVERY EVENING.
A BOOM. A TRIUMPH. A REVELATION.
Spencer’s Greatest Masterpiece,
THE PRISONER OF ZENDA.
EXCITING. THRILLING. SPECTACULAR.
PRICES : 1/6, 1/- & (id.
BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
Ri ( K A it I) >’ TIVOLI V H EA T It
Governing Director
HUGH D. MCINTOSH.
ROSA ROMA, the World-famed Gipsy Violinist.
LUCILLE SAVOY, the Singing Venus.
RICHARDS BROS., Comedy Gymnasts.
LILY EYTON. Vocal Comedienne.
THE GREAT GOLDEN TROUPE, Singers, Dancers, etc.
THE PRIMROSE FOUR, America’s Record Quartette.
ERIC STONE, presenting Black & White Illustration-.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites
Prices: 5/-, 4/- and 1/-
l> Elt A II OUS E, MEI,It O l It NE.
Governing Director: Mr. HUGH D. McINTOSH.
BELLORA, King of Mimics.
ALBERTO and CO. in a Bunch of Magical Nonsense.
LILLTE LANGTRY, the Electric Spark.
BONNIE LEONARD, the Girl with a Million Smiles.
MISS WILLETTE WHITAKER,
Assisted by F. WILBUR HILL.
GENE GREENE, the Emperor of Ragtime.
DU CALTON, the Loquacious Laddie.
THE EIGHT SAXONES.
Plan at Allan’s. iWf'PRTCES—4s., 35., 25., Is.
Tl I E KING’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager: William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Reappearance of the
AMERICAN MUSICAL BURLESQUE CO.
In the Exciting Musical Revel,
A DAY AT THU RACES.
POPULAR PRICES.
PLANS AT ALLAN’S.
Amusements.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor: GEO. WILLOUGHBY LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, NOVEMBER 22.
Geo. Willoughby Ltd. presents a Grand Revival of the
Original and Startling Play,
THE NIGHT SIDE OF LONDON.
ADMISSION: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/- Plan at Pianola Co.
HER .MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE NEW COMIC OPERA CO.,
Presenting a cast entirely new to Melbourne, in the
Military Musical Play,
AU'ITJMN MANOEUVRES.
Plan at Allan’s.
Til I
AT R E
Direction J.
Prices: 65., 45., 2s. andls.
k o y aG m elbo urn e.
C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
LEWIS WALLER, together with Miss MADGE
TITHERADGE, and a Complete Comnanv, in
A BUTTERFLY ON THE WHEEL.
PRICES: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-
Stalls, 4/-. Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: Amalgamated Pictures Ltd.
FEATURING THIS WEEK,
THE NEW 4000 ft. NORDISK PRODUCTION,
THE SECRET OF THE BUREAU.
Plan at Allan’s. Theatre ’Phone: Central 4553.
PICTORIAL CONCERTS EVERY SUNDAY
EVENING AT 8.
CM;
Y M P I A.
Y M P I A.
(Just across
WHERE ARE TO BE
O L Y M P I A.
MELBOURNE.
Princes Bridge).
SEEN THE UNRIVALLED
SUENCEJ US PICTURES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS AT 2.30.
EVERY NIGHT AT 8.
UHEST’S PALACE, ME L BOURNE.
THE BEST WEST’S PICTURES THE BEST
of" all limited. of all
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8. Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays,
and All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be seen
at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices —6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
Birch & carroll
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Plaving Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Comnanv of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office: ROTHWELL CHAMBERS, BRISBANE.
WANTED to buy Choice MINERAL
SPECIMENS from any part of
Australia.
Address: —
R. V., 4394,
c/o Rudolf Mosse, Potsdamerstrasse 33.
Berlin W. 35. Germany.
MAGIC LANTERN SLIDES
MAKE
YOUR
OWN
h
A New Art for Clever Boys.
All the materials, transfers,
glass, filming and binding
to make 15 Pictures,
a couple of complete
slides and a Mhgic
T/imfern for only
i2/9 the lot, we pay
carriage. The direc-
tions are simple.
Tlae Union Co.
299 Elizabeth St., Melb
PVGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a f
ture of The Lone Hand no woman
city or country should miss.
Ssi
F)R the convenience of the man
who is many miles from the big
towns, we have Special Colt re-
volvers made to shoot thesame car-
tridges as the Winchester Rifles.
This saves the trouble of having to
carry two kinds of Ammunition.
The Calibres are .33,
.38 and .44, and these
cartridges are procurable
in any little town
throughout the
civilized world
ONE
Cartridge
DOES—
fdh
-for
BOTH
The PRICES of the REVOLVERS are-
. 32 cai. 4in. barrel *5; .38 ca 1 . 514 In.
barrel, *6/15/-; .44 cal. 7% in. barrel,
*7/10/-.
Winchester Rifles -Half or full Maga
zine—Carbine length, 20 in. barrell 60/-.
Full Rifle length, 24 in. barrel. 62/6.
Catalogs.
Free
Alcock & Pierce,
318 Lt. Collins
Street, MELB.
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE.
\
Made in England. Perfectly
harmless, indetectable
and guaranteed f,«
from Nitrate J
Salts" &nd Lead
IN VARIOUS
SHADES Raven
D B 'ack, Black,
Brown, Light ol
Golden Brown,
Blonde, Chestnut
and Auburn
Price 3/6, posted 3/n
with every
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 The Block Arcade, Collin.* St.. Melbourne
FOR
FAIR DINKUM GO]
~ . TRY THE ...
MEM
Accordeons
The World’s Best
35/-, 42/- 63/-
Sole Agent:
LYO N S,
Bourkest.,Melb.
lit!
Do You Use Glass Instru-
ments in Your Calling?
fd
Do you use Scientific Glassware in
vour calling? We manufacture and
repair them to exact, standard re-
quirements, and guarantee their per-
fect accuracy.
If you wish special instruments made
for any purpose, tell us your needs
and we will quote you for the neces-
sary design.
Our Booklet, illustrating Scientific
Glassware of every kind, is free.
Shall we send you a copy?
WILSON NAFIS 8 CO. LTD.,
Wharf Street, Brisbane, Q.
ARE YOU FAIR TO YOURSELF?
"V7OU begin to
* look old, with
those grey and
faded hairs,
always so con-
spicuous. A
bottle of the
world-famed
m
Lockyer’s
Hair Restorer, 1/6
gives health to the Hair and restores the
natural colour. It cleanses the scalp; is
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
DON’T LOOK OLD.
you &‘ ant
the teeth cleaned both
easily and thoroughly
Calvert’s
«flSoHi R>wder
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made oy F. C. Calvert &■ Co.,ManChesttr^n
V*
“Oh! I say’
It’s Good! ’
Cooling, refreshing and snappy
Montserrat
LIME JUICE
io the ideal Summer beverage
Large supplies have lately
been shipped from London.
MONTSERRAT ia gold by all leader Btoreic mJ ,


KEEP YOUR
SKIN CLEAR
-A
V
FI
CUTICURA
SOAP
And occasional use of Cuti-
cura Ointment. No other
emollients do so much to
prevent pore-clogging, pim-
ples, blackheads, red, rough
hands, dandruff, itching
scalps and falling hair.
Cutioura Soap an 1 Ointment sold everywhere.
Liberal sample of each, with 32-page book, sent post-
free. Address R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
With Daily
Use of
Drives Sallowness
from the Skin
Ladies, imperfect complexion is caused by
a sluggish liver. A few days’ treatment with
CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER PILLS will do
more to clean up the skin
than all the beauty
creams in creation.
Cures constipation,
unclogs the liver,
ends indigestion,
biliousness and
dizziness
Purely vege-
table, never 1
fail. 1
hd
Carters
■ITTLE •
IVER
PILLS.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
The GENUINE must bear signature
AN INTERESTING
experiment.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey Hairs
wake, just lay a piece of paper over each of the two
halves of the above portrait. The Grey “half” will
then be seen to have the appearance of 45 years of
age, whereas the other half looks only 30. Dr. B.
li v. B (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut Stain will make
all those years of difference if you are grey or prema-
turely grey. It is perfectly harmless, easy to apply,
and will quickly restore the Hair to the natural shade
°f youth, or younger years.
»r. B. ALLEN’S ,u.s. A .,
Mexican WALNUT STAIN
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
wercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suitable
or Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or Moustache.
CARBIDE.
For First-Class
Results use
Best
CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED, 02
Hitt Street, Sydney, Sole Ag nts for Australia.
PAGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
•ty or country should miss.
rr - v>
wL
Mather 8 Platt
High Lift
Turbine Pump
and
Electric Motor.
The Pumps of High Efficiency
and Low First Cost
Tlie fact that MATHER & PLATT Pumps are the outcome of 38 years
of pump-huilding experience is a point that can be considered well by the
buyer of pumping machinery.
If these Pumps were not right—-you would know it —their Makers would
know it —after 38 years.
Mather Platt High
Lift Turbine Pumps
have stood the test.
Engineers prefer them, because they give a regular flow and because of
their freedom from water hammer.
There is no necessity for air vessels, and the motion being rotary there is
no shock due to reciprocating parts ; for the same reason these pumps are
particularly suitable for driving by electric motor.
Are not these advantages at least worth looking into? It will pay you to
get FULL details. Write for Booklet and full particulars NOW.
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA :
GIBSON, BATTLE & GO. LTD.
535 Kent Street, SYDNEY
480 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Buyers of
HORROCKSES’
LONGCLOTHS and
MADAPOLAMS
have a guarantee if they will see
HORROCKSES’ name on Selvedge that they
are getting the very best that the Old Country
Produces.
Decline all Substitutes
Sold by a'.l First-Class Drapers and Storekeepers,
latest victory
GRAND PRIZE
B US ELS
1 XHIB.TION, 1910
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices In
England—
l/ti, 2/9 & 4/b.
fh
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks of
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
'he cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acts like a charm In
DIARRHCEA and simple DYSENTERY.
Made in England.
The “Swan-Safety” is simpler and more reliable than any
other pen made; may be carried in any position, in any pocket,
handbag or trunk, without fear of leakage; with the “ladder"
feed, erratic working is out of the question ; the nib is the
product of over 60 years’ experience; the holder is beautifully
balanced and holds a good supply of ink.
SWA
FO««Tf»EN.
Sold by all
Stationers.
Catalogue Free on Request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London, W.C.
) Australian Branch (Wholesale only) :
\ J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George St., Sydney
fd
\
SMOKERS and
NON-SMOKERS
And Pebeco Tooth Paste the best remedy for any disagree-
able taste. It makes your breath sweet and fragrant and
restores tinted teeth, without injury, to their natural color.
Pebeco is a complete and ideal health coarse for the mouth
and teeth.
OBTAINABLE ALL CHEMISTS.
Trial Tube of Pebeco, with useful Book and interesting
test, Free for three penny stamps, on application to the
Sole Agent,
G. ARNOLD
(Dept. M), 6 O’Connell Street, Sydney
(WHOLESALE ONLY). [4
The Inky Way.
“Locust” : The press-censorship-in-war discussion,
now on in London, recalls recent experiences in
the Balkan scraps. Turkey, under German tactics,
refused the correspondents access to the “front.”
Bulgaria let the press go loose, encouraged it,
and abundantly supplied it with full news
of all the things the Bulgarian com-
manders wanted known. The European press
rang with news of Bulgarian victories and of
Turkish retreats. These were telegraphed to Con-
stantinople, and though the local press there was
censored, the “news” leaked out. Turkish soldiers
in the field, who had been really advancing, thus
heard that they and the whole army were retreating.
So they stampeded. The worried commanders there-
upon communicated with Constantinople, and said, in
effect: “In Allah’s name, send us some war corres-
pondents ! We are not being donkey-licked, as
alleged.” The few correspondents in Constantinople
who were left—most of them had gone, tired out of
waiting round on the Turkish end of the business —
were frantically appealed to by the Government and
the military authorities. “Go to the front. Go any-
where. See anything. Transport will be provided.”
Two of them were specially franked through, like a
couple of commanders-in-chief. Martin Donohoe, of
Sydney, was one of the two. He had lingered in
Constantinople, having an unconquerable faith in the
eventual success of the Turks under the Napoleonic
Enver Bey, who was returning post-haste from the
Italian war to retrieve the disasters. Donohoe reached
the front in time to describe, with thrill-
ing effect, the horror of the Lule Burgas defeats and
retreats ; and to show the world what a fine, patient,
brave, enduring chap the Turk soldier is, and what
a rascal and a botch his superior is—the allegd superior
who starved him on the battlefield while food was
lying in profusion half a mile away.
“T. 0.1.”: An ancient playbill was recently un-
covered in Melbourne after being hidden for 60 years.
The bill is of the year 1851, and was found by a
contractor engaged in dismantling a Little Lonsdale-
street building at one time licensed as the Queens-
town Hotel. In tearing away the old cedar facing
boards in the front of the building, the bill was dis-
closed pasted on a solid red-gum post, which formed
a portion of the doorway of the old hotel. Evidently
it had got there while the building was under erec-
tion. The name of the printer is still visible: “John
Ferres, Printer, Morning Herald office, Melbourne.”
This John Ferres was the son of a printer and short-
hand reporter of -Bath. Coming to Melbourne in
1848, within a weekvl*ehad got a job as a composi-
tor on the Herald —whose office was in Bourke-
st.reet, near the G.P.O. —and in the course of a few
months he became manager. It was by his advice
that the first steam printing press in this part of
the world was introduced and installed in the Herald
office, and under his superintendence the first 8-page
newspaper was produced. Two months after the
printing of the playbill just discovered Mr. Ferres
was appointed Government Printer of Victoria, and
held the office for many years. The Government
Printing Office in those days was in Little Bourke-
street West, close to old Government House; the
latter was in William-street, where the Law Courts
now are.
Adelaide Register (1/11/’l3) had a neat uninten-
tional joke at Josiah Symon’s expense. The literary
K.C. had been addressing the Poetry Recital Society
in Adelaide, on “Poetry and the Busy Man,” and he
quoted Wordsworth :
“Will no one tell me what she sings?
Perhaps the plaintive numbers flow
From old, unhappy, far-off things,
And battles long ago.”
The linotype, with due regard for professional cour-
tesy, made it “plaintiff numbers.”
“O’Phimerty”: lie the statue of Mercury, men-
tioned by “Melb ” (B. 23/8/’l3) as adorning the
Age office. Its purchase and erection were one of
old David Syme’s dour jests, at the expense of the
Argus, which pitches its tent near by. In the
ancient myth, Argus, having 98 spare eyes, was set to
spy on a pal of Mercury’s. That speedy gentleman
happened along, just in the nick of time, with a
lyre. His dreamy music closed the hundred peepers
with which Argus viewed the world, so that not even
one of them remained open. Thereupon Mercury set
upon him and brought his career to a miserable end.
Hey, mon, it was all right; yet I don’t think any-
body ever heard the old warrior David chuckle over
an idea that was really well worth a chuckle.
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: An old landmark dis-
appears from one site in Sydney to re-appear in
another. This is Cunninghame’s printing office, which
for 50 years has stood in Pitt-street, within three
doors of King-street. Francis Cunninghame was an
old colonist, dating back to the first ’4o’s. In the
latter part of that decade he was editing the
People’s Advocate, which was published in King-
street, almost on the site of new Daily Telegraph
offices. At that time there were two other printing
offices in King-street. One was the Hibernian printing
office, on the east corner of what is now Truth’s
lane. This was run by William Baker. The other
was two doors west, and was known as the Albion.
Thomas Trood was the boss. In the early ’so’s Mr.
Cunninghame bought out Mrs. Trood, and the busi-
ness was continued there until it was removed to
the premises just vacated. Cunninghame himself
died many years ago. In King-street Mr. Cunning-
hame had the John Bull Tavern on one side and the
Bible Depot on the other. In Pitt-street in the first
’go’s he was in the midst of assorted businesses. On
the corner was the Elephant and Castle, an old-
fashioned pubbery, kept by one William Lamb, who
was a fire-fighting captain. Bob Horne kept a
“night-house,” or restaurant, on his immediate south,
and” next him, strange as it may seem to-day, was
the shoeing smithy of Jack Edwards. Printers ink
later claimed the spot, as Sam Bennett built here the
T and C. Journal and Evening News office; after-
wards the business was removed to Market-street.
The thirsty comp was well provided for here, as in
those early davs, at any rate, there were seven pubs
within 50 yards of him. There only five now.
“Mr Ocky” • The elderly type-snatcher breathlessly
told us of a close shave from being run over. “My
God!” he said, “it was a narrow squeak. The wheel
missed me by a nonpareil. #
“Y.Z.”: One well known and influential paper at
loner bis the courage to advertise that it is not an
astounding success. The New Age (London) lately
printed its own balance-sheet, setting forth a loss of
P 1037 for the year, and it docs not complain. I
remember a Gippsland tri-weekly that did the same,
W it added a footnote: “It will be seen that we
are losing £7 a week in our efforts to carry en-
lightenment to the soul of this miserable district.
We might have been encouraged to persist, but for
our pathetic discovery that this district hasn t got a
soul.”
HARD LABOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I noticed him the first time at
A screaming comedy.
While those around him rocked and roared
He merely looked extremely bored.
And seemed quite dead to glee.
Judged by his attitude of gloom,
His thoughts were centred on the tomb.
Next, at a stirring play I saw
Him sitting, stern and cold,
While he who played the hero's part
Braved shot and shell to save his tart
From dangers manifold ;
The wretch seemed not to care a jot
If Ruth was saved, or Jack was shot !
“Yon hound,” I murmured to a friend,
“Regrets that to this show
He came, and.seems to long—alack!
To get his hard-earned money back!”
The other answered : “No ;
On plays he never spends a thrum —
The rag he’s on pays him to come!”
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


SPORTING RIFLES
of Reliability and Accuracy.
=£
“WINCHESTER,” Single Shot, 1902 Model,
22 Cal. Rim Fire, peep or Y sights, scroll
trigger guard, rubber heel plate, /h .
weight 2flb. »oS» OCf*
The above Rifle, fitted with sporting ladder rear sight,
Postage—l/6 N.S.W., 2/8 Inter-State.
20 -
hfd
"THE MAINE ~
Pifle
xSheunng Qifte hpsrt
“ THE MAINE ” S.S. Rifle
designed for 22 short, Jong, or extra long cartridges, Rim Fire. It
is a take-down, and can be taken apart easily and quickly, by simply
unscrewing the thumb-screw located underneath the fore arm. The action
used on this rifle is of the safety bolt type, and is exceedingly simple, con-
sisting of very few parts. The barrel is round, 18in. long, bored and rifled
with the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed
accurate to 300yds. ; weight 31b., fitted with plain V back
sight
Or with Winchester Sliding Sights to 300yds.
Postage on one Rifle—l/3 N.S.W. ; 2/2 Inter-State.
12/6
15h
"n
Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906 Model,
16 shot, 20in. round barrel, plain trigger, straight grip, slide action,
for 22 short, long or long rifle cartridges. ym
Postage—2/- N.S.W., 3/8 Inter-State. £ ©
h
BAYARD SEMI-AUTOMATIC RIFLE,
22 cal., 19in. Round Steel Barrel, length over all
38$in., weight 3flb., handles short or -a o
long cartridges, #o/ O.
Postage—l/6 N.S.W., 2/8 Inter-State.
GUN and
RIFLE
REPAIRS
a Speciality.
.
Stevens' “ FA VO RITE,"
22 W.R.F., or 22 Calibre Rim Fire, half-octagon 22in. barrel,
case-hardened frame, solid breech block, take down action, open front and rear
sights, weight 4£lb. Postage—l/9 N.S.W., 3/2 Inter-State.
We can supply the above Rifles fitted with Beach Combination Front Sigrht and Vernier Re
25 or 32 Rim Fire Calibres, same description as above, 2/6 each extra.
2216.
r, 35/.
Send for oqr p f j C g Lj s |
of Guns, Rifles,
Ammunition, etc.
Post Free, Anywhere.
fdh
“ Winchester ” Single Shot
Rifle, 1904 Model,
for 22 short or long rim fire cartridges, 21in. heavy
round steel barrel, plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight, length of rifle over-
all, bead front, sight, with patent alloyed tip,
which will not tarnish ; weight, about 41b.
Postage—l/9 N.S.W. ; 3/2 Inter-State.
245. 6d.
MICK SIMMONS LTD.
Head Depot: Haymarket, Sydney, N.S.W.
Branches : CITY, SUBURBS and NEWCASTLE.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dog's Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
WILL ANDRADE for MAGIC.
Or. Thomas Faulkner’s
BOOK OF NATURE
and ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE,
3/6.
New 1912 Edition,
Enlarged, 32 Extra
Plates, illustrating
Female Anatomy,
handsome Cloth Cover,
5/" Post Free.
Write for Descriptive
Circular of Contents,
post free anywhere.
Superb Virility of Man-
hood, by Bernard Mac-
fadden; simple home
methods for curing
weaknesses of men, 5/4 ;
Macfadden’s Sweethearts
for Life; life’s greatest
pleasure secured by ob-
serving highest human
instincts, 5/4; Macfad-
den’s Building Vital
Power, 5/4; Health,
Beauty, Sexuality, 5/4 ;
Strength from Eating,
5/4 ; Macfadden’s Devel-
oping Muscular Power,
5/4 ; Science of Muscu-
lar Development, 5/4 ;
Superb Womanhood,
5/4; Macfadden’s Physi-
cal Culture v. Consump-
tion, and Value of Air in
Strength-building, com-
plete, 2/2. AND ANY
CHEAP CONJURING THICKS.
Marvellously Simple ! Simply Marvellous
tJ
Multiplying and Van-
ishing Billiard Balls.
Produced from no-
where, appearing' at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Com-
plete with Full In-
structions (enabling
the merest amateur
to perform it), 1/6;
posted, 2/-
T w o - from -Five
Card Trick. Another
startler, introducing
something quite new
in magic. Price 6d.;
post free, Bd.
Above prices include postage to any address.
The Above Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post free any-
where, with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2/6.
BOOK YOU WANT. Mention The Bulletin.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
201 BOURKE STREETMELBOURNE. tl
Catalogues
FREE.
PUMPS WATER
GET OUR FREE TRIAL
OFFER.
DAY AND NIGHT
AUTOMATICALLY.
Low in 6rst cost, easy to insta], no expense to operate, any
capacity desired for Country 7 Homes, Farms, Dairies,
Gardens, Irrigation, Town Plants, Railroad Tanks, etc.
RIFE HYDRAULIC RAMS
RAISE WATER 30 FEET for EVERY FOOT OF FALL.
Satisfaction Guaranteed. Over 7000 in use.
If there is a stream, spring or pond within a mile—
WRITE FOR FREE PLANS and BOOK.
2613 Trinity Bldg. RIFE ENGINE CO. New York.
Farquhar’s Agricultural Machines
fdh
fd
h
have been recognised as leaders of
quality for more than fifty years because
they excel in strength and efficiency.
Therefore they are noted all over the
world for their reliability.
fdh
We manufacture Steam Engines and
Boilers, Gasoline Engines, Steam and Gasoline
Traction Engines, Threshers, Saw Mills, Horse
Powers, Plows, Harrows, Cultivators, Corn
Shellers, Corn Mills, Grain Drills, Corn
Planters, Cotton Planters, Potato Diggers,
Store Trucks, etc.
Also, Hydraulic Presses for Cider, Wine, Veneer, etc.
Write for Free Illustrated Catalogues.
Correspondence in all Modern Languages. Cable Address: “FENANKLE,” New York.
A. B. FARQUHAR & CO.,
Cotton Exchange Building,
NEW YORK, U.S.A.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1913 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tinf.’s Silk,nt Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Danck, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made East, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, §d, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Games,
Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Bod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce. Us. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, os. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain fop. the
British, 6d. How to Bead Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups. Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
108 6d. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is 6d.
II
88
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
F.MBRACIN9
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pastes.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.-*!
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS-LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano. Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle's
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. The White Slave Traffic, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easj-, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits. Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of'Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
oth< rs, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don't be fooled into paying- more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Jistabiished 25 Years.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY,
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to tlie Stage,
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. SArnio,gemim ,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d post. Dk. Milford s M ’
wipe’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, -s ■
Aristotle, 3/6. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems, complete,
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of t
King, Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, -s. od. »e
History Court op England, Is 3d post, l-o™
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is -• •
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key t
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. \tst
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, > P ’
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to A
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chbvasses An
Wipe, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget 3 _
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post •
Bknnarr Macfadden’s Works, all at os 1 ;
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers an. -
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wipes U••
Is 2d posted. Fruits op Philosophy Is P 08 ®; j ‘ ai ™
llkcitattons and Readings, Is 3d. Nervous
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster s La ■
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 lllus., 4
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why paj '
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing,
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moores - ‘ j. h
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 101 ® w s,
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets op *
is post. 200 Old-T im k Songs (words and
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of »«***:, y
posted. ScL WRITE FOR CATALOGUE 10 ba
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).


MISS BRYDIE REVENALL,
one of the Famous Beauty Girls of
the Australian Pantomime, praises
fe's
V
REXONA
Her Majesty’s Theatre,
Sydney.
To the Rexona Proprietary Company,
Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —As a dancer, let me say a
word of tribute as to the virtues oi
your wonderful “Rexona.” When
I was appearing in the “ Puss in
Boots” pantomime “The
Gipsy Ballet ”—1 strained my
ankle. A member of the
company bought me a box
“ Rexona ” from her
dressing-room. There
was only a little in the
pot, but after rubbing it
in it relieved the pain,and
next day I bought enough
to completely put my
sore muscles in order. 1 always
keep it by me now, and use it as an
emorocation to keep my limbs and
muscles supple and strong. Wishing
your valuable “Rexona” continued
success.
Yours faithfully,
(Sgd.) BRYDIE REVENALL.
REXONA
EVERYBODY’S FRIEND.
MISS BRYDIE REVENALL (Brand Studio Photo.).
Many prominent artistes have testified to the value of Rexona, the Rapid Healer.
Miss Ethel Buckley says that at all times she has found its healing properties, to
say the least, wonderful. Mrs. Robert Brough writes: “I consider it a necessity in
every household. Miss Ivy Schilling recommends it as a rub-down after acrobatic
dancing - , and as a magical reviver for strained muscles. Margaret Dale-Owen says
that Rexona is a perfect balm for sunburn, chapped hands, or any chance abrasion.
Miss M. J. O’Keeffe, the noted fencing instructor, says: “Every night before I go to
rest I thoroughly massage my wrists and hands with Rexona. If by any chance my
skin is cut or lacerated, I can always rely upon finding it healed in the morning after
my nightly use of Rexona.
In all walks of life is Rexona recommended. Noted swimmers, oarsmen, cyclists
and football players have added their testimony to Rexona.
Rexona is sold only in pots at Is. 6d., or in larger pots, containing almost four
times the quantity, at 3s.
Rexona Skin and Facial Soap is excellent to use with Rexona, and is specially
designed for the delicate skin of the face, and is medicated on the same principle as
the famous Rexona.
o
o
0
THE RAPID HEALER
ON TNEHOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred of “Hop’s” best drawings. Full
Bulletin size- Price, 21s.
SCHUTE, BELL, &. Co., Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
HOLLOWAY’S
Pills Ointment
A TRIAL of HOLLOW AY'S PILLS has meant
The Dawning o/.Brig'Hter Day
to many a sufferer from liver, kidney and stomach
troubles* For over three-score years and ten they
have been supreme in all cases of biliousness,
headache, indigestion, depression and other com-
plaints which usually arise from constipation*
You should also use HOLLOWAY'S OINT-
MENT, which possesses remarkable healing
virtues in cases of skin affections and sores,
rheumatism, lumbago, sciatica, etc. See to
it that you always have a box and pot handy#
To be obtained from all Chemists, Stores,
etc.
Manufactured only at
113 COUTHWARK ST. (late 78 New Oxford St.), LONDON, S.E.
The Survival.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT is given to me to hold the lamp
That shines through the grey dead
years ;
I find my way to the cave tombs damp
With a vanished nation’s tears :
I hear the wings of the drowsy bats
Lift from the woven burial mats
And rustle down the years.
Hopes stir in me that others knew
In a warm Egyptian day.
I walk by a sea of Chaldean blue
In fiat meadows far away.
When I smile it is with alien lips.
1 touch old dreams with my finger tips,
And old gods hear me pray !
If I love ’tis as some Ragan loved
In a temple by the sea ;
And the same quick passion others moved
That this hour lias given to me.
For a bygone life beats in my veins,
Forgotten blisses, remembered pains
Lived once again shall be.
You hold a flower to my mouth,
I know it born to-day,
Yet in a vineyaid of the South,
Slow centuries away.
A maid with grape leaves on her brow
Held the same blossom you bold now
In just such laughing play !
Last night when the sky was gapped by stars
And the dusty wind swung low,
And the moon sank over the sunset’s bars,
The way that we all shall go,
And the river line was a snake of mist,
I kis’t you close as a conqueror kis’t
A captive long ago.
And you throbbed to me as a lover throbs
With a virgin heart to yield ;
And I felt as a thief who an altar robs
As he slinks to his potter’s field ; -
For the kisses were those I stole away
From a Roman girl in a bud-trimmed May
As I laid aside my shield.
And should I die in some darkened room
With a wafer on my tongue,
When the West is petalled in poppy bloom
And the Day’s harp is unstrung,
I shall remember and laugh, I know,
O’er a day I died in my long Ago,
Unshriven and unsung.
On a bloody plain, by a rocking wood,
With the nick of steel on steel,
My armor blackened with sweat and blood
And the round blue world a-reel;
While in the chapel on the bill
A white-robed Nun is trembling still
My girdling arms to feel!
Shall I be born into other lives
To find YOU waiting there,
Grey orbs where the dumb chained spirit
strives
To ask me When and Where?
I looked at you with the same bold eyes
Taught the Sorrow that made you wise,
The Love that bore Despair !
It is given to me to hold the lamp
That shines through the muffled years ;
I know the way to the cave tombs —damp
From the centuries dropping tears ;
And over the rotting burial mats
I hear the wings of the noisome bats
Go flapping down the years !
QUEENSLAND.
M. Forrest.
My Ancestral Love.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
EVEN though it is ten thousand years
or more since we last met, L thought
you would have remembered me. 1
remember you so well. Yet 1 passed you in
the street to-day, our eyes met, but....you
did not know me!
When I had caught the last of them in
my dying grapple, utterly spent myself, and
knowing my time was come, you hurled the
rock that wrecked his face before my eyes.
For which of us was it meant, that rock
—him or me?
Let me recall the happening.
* * * *
The cave had a wide opening at its
mouth, facing the river and the hill slope
beyond. They had rolled some big boulders
to one side of it at an angle, as shelter
against the weather and against us —my
brothers and I. Of course we didn’t matter
now. I, well named the Crafty One, alone
escaped that time your brothers caught us
unawares. 1 passed you in my flight. I
had not time to carry you off, but how I
wished I had killed you when I found
you had set them upon my track, telling
them the way of my going. I escaped in
•spite of you—far too great was my cunning
for such as they to match it.
I suppose the slaying of all iny brothers
had made them grow carelesSi Certainly
they felt safe from attack or they would
ne ver ave the Red One alone with you.
-three days I had watched my oppor-
tunity. At last it came.
The day before they had all gone hunting
the five of them with you and the other
women following after. The cave was de-
serted. That was when I crept from my
hiding-place in the thicket and examined it.
-•-he smoke-hole in the centre —here indeed
was the one place to attack from. I clam-
bered up to the cave top and examined it
trom above. What fools they were to fear
uo danger because only I was left! No sen-
tinels, no watch kept—that I had seen the
bay before— but now 1 saw it must have
been so for many, many days. The great
mund stone that by a slight touch, might be
]pfT d as a cov er to the smoke-hole, had been
ett unrolled for many a moon —a greening
0 i llo * B on its rolling side told me that.
* went back to my hiding-place, glad in
ts knowledge— went back and waited
again.
ou all, came home just before nightfall
_ a °, sentinels again all that night. The
fpp of your feasting and The smell of your
t ast came to me—but I never stirred. I
w * 1 must wait. AH night I waited,
vnnv j ay you a H went off again. When
ton t d Passed out of sight over the hill
nJu 1 Was tempted to creep into the cave
ffnif Secure som e of the remains of your
something to still the hunger gnawing
wumn me.
But here again my cunning saved me.
Hollow gutted as I was, I knew the risk of
doing this. So I waited still.
The sun was scarce overhead when 1
spied movement in the distance. I watched.
Two men only—what was the meaning of
it V No, not two men—a man and a woman !
The man with a young buck slung over his
shoulder —the woman —my eyes were stung
to tears with the intentness of my 100k —-
the woman was....you.
I was no longer hungry now. The
moment was mine. I knew it. Now would
I have the revenge for which my heart
lusted, and now, you who had set them upon
my track, you whom in my fleeing I could
hot carry with me, you would be mine too !
And I waited.
Down you came, the two of you, down the
hill slope, over the river, into the cave —no
more than a rock-hurl from me, crouching
flat in the thicket. I heard the crackling of
fire. I saw the black smoke rising up
through the hole. I saw it blueing as the
flames leaped up. Then there was a lull in
the smoke wreath—he was splitting the
buck then. Soon I smelt the singed flesh,
the savory richness of the roasting beast.
Too hot were the hunger and the hate with-
in me—l could not wait longer. I gripped
the rock I had chosen for the slaying in my
two hands —gripped it as if its weight were
as nought—and ran like the wind, bearing
it to the roof of the cave. Here I crouched
down beside the smoke-hole, through which
1 meant to hurl the murder stone.
I tried to see you. The smoke blinded me
and 1 was forced to withdraw my head. It
was well. Through the moisture spilling
from my eyes I saw you go at his bidding to
the river for water. Down I crouched —the
rock was the further side of the smoke-hole
and I could still watch him without being
seen by you.
With my face just out of the rising smoke
I found I could look without it smarting me.
There he was, my enemy, the lied One
whom I hated, the leader of his tribe. Bend-
ing over the beast he caught the dripping
fat as it fell with a long-handled stone ladle,
basting the belly part with it. His back
was to me —his red, shaggy hair falling over
his shoulders on either side. His club leaned
against the cave wall, full five paces from
him. I knew he could never reach it in
time. I raised my knees up towards me,
gripped the rock above my head so that my
knuckles whitened, the hate in me seeming
to burst my ribs, and poised it for the aim.
There was a warning cry from the river
bank. You, whose eyes were for danger as
the eagles for prey, had spied me! But you
were too late! He hesitated, knowing not
whence to look for danger.
Then I threw....and my rock crashed
into his skull as were it of eggshell. He
fell, kicking, into the fire, bringing down
the spitted beast with him in his fall. His
brains, grey and smattered and bloody,
smoked and sizzled in the flames.
Then it was that a rich joy rioted within
me, and, leaping up with a hoarse shout of
triumph, I tore down to make you my cap-
tive at the river bank. I thought that,
womanlike, you would flee. But no ! Whilst
I ran I watched you give a quick look up
the hill slope as if expecting the other men’s
return. Then you shouted —shouted a loud
call that flung itself against the mountains
and echoed along the valleys till the woods
rang with it. After this you darted down
and picked up a rock that many a strong
man would have been proud to hurl, and
stood waiting me in defiance. Your black
eyes flashed lightnings of angry hate, your
tense muscles stood out in clear relief be-
neath your brown skin as you took your
stand ready for the throw. My heart leapt
wild within me to make you mine, only de-
siring you the more from your hate.
You threw well —but 1 was more agile
than you thought. The rock just grazed my
shoulder as 1 leapt aside and ducked—a
mere scratch, no worse. But even now you
did not fear me. Before I knew it you were
upon me —kicking, lunging, biting with all
a mad thing’s fury. It was not till I dazed
you with a blow that I captured you—and
even stunned as you were then, you
struggled with me all the while I dragged
you by your long black hair to the cave.
It angered me, a woman to make this use-
less resistance; and when I got you inside
the cave I flung you with all my strength to
its' far corner, where you lay, beaten and
abashed. He, the Bed One, was there, just
as I had felled him, his battered head
charred in the fire, and all the red hair of
his body singed off on one side. In my anger
I kicked him over and over till I left him in
front of you, taunting you about him all
the while. • , , _ .
But now, seeing the roasted buck flesh,
hunger moved too strongly within me. It was
so long since I had tasted food. I tore off a
strip along the backbone that was more
roasted than the rest and sat down before
the tire—sitting at an angle so that I could
both watch von and keep my eye on that
part of the hill-top whence your glance at
the river-side told me to expect the brothers
coining. „ , T * ~ j
You scowled at me all the while I bolted
the hot buck meat, tearing off great mouth-
fuls of it with my teeth. What for all your
glowering did I care? You were mine now,
and he, the Red One, lay stiffening in a pool
of congealed blood beside you !
I thought more of you the more my
hunger got appeased —and indeed you were
rich to look upon. There was a roundness
in your limbs that made my eyes glad, a
rude, subtle grace that was well fitted to
make you the mate of such a man as I —-the
strongest as well as the craftiest of my tribe.
So I flung you a strip of meat that I had
but half eaten and bade you eat. You
scowled at me the more and spurned it from
you with your foot. I only laughed at this,
knowing how well I would tame you when I
had the wish !
I caught your look again—the look of an
animal that’sees its way of escape from an
enemy. I read the look—for all your at-
tempt at concealment. I followed it —and
there were the other four brothers of the
Red One, stalking stealthily down the hill-
side from rock to rock, knowing the danger,
but not vet knowing what it was.
Now was no time to waste. None should
take you from me. You were mine. I swore
; t an d were his brothers four times four
still" would I claim you as mine. And were
they four times four, still did the blood of
mv own kinsmen call for vengeance. There
was the spirit of battle seething in me
And as I watched them coming I thought
me of the smoke-hole above. What I had
(Continued on next page.)


9*
v.-
/f.
. ; ■
•y.'
_ •
*3¥Av.-.-.v
vx
W ; :
»»•
Ji
A-.:*:
THE EVFJR-READY HEALER
AND PERFECT SKIN-CURE.
IN the course of her duties the nurse is
brought into contact with every descrip-
tion of skin disease. She is also brought
to fully realise the need for a reliable healing
balm which can be applied to diseased and
wounded skin with every confidence that £
only good will result.
The fact that hundreds of nurses use
Zam-Buk in the course of their
duties is further proof, if such were
needed, that in Zam-Buk the public
is furnished with a reliable healing
balm and skin-cure, the purity and
power- of which cannot be denied.
below we quote the opinion of one of many nurses
who have written in praise of Zam-Buk.
HAD TO GIVE UP NURSING.
«7
fl
fA
1
■
•V£y. •;
XU BSE OPR AT, who recom-
mend* Zatn-Buh to all.
WOUNDED, INFLAMED HAND
THAT WOULD NOT HEAL
Nurse Opray, residing at 31 King Street,
Praliran, Melbourne, adds her name to the
already long list of professional practitioners
who speak in praise of Zam-Buk. “I suffered
from a terribly bad hand,” says the nurse,
“which was caused through knocking it against
a door. Inflammation set in, my hand com-
menced to swell up, and the pain was so great
I could do nothing with it. I was out nursing
at the time, but I was forced to give it up. All
the remedies I tried failed to do any good, and
at the end of three months my hand was get-
ting worse instead of better. A friend advised
me to use Zam-Buk. The benefit I derived
from the first few applications was very encour-
aging. After a while the wound was cleansed
and purified, and the healing process rapidly
set in. New healthy skin grew over the wound,
and my hand was as sound and strong as ever.
I recommend it to aIL”
frm-Buk
Z'
£ VEPy HOM * WC£Z>5 A*Pqj.
Zam Buk Is a
proved remedy
foreczema, boils,
sores, bruises,
cuts blackheads,
pimples, sore
feet. etc. From
all chemists and
stores at Is. «d.
and 3s. 6d. per
pot.
Chamberlain's
Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy.
This is the best medicine procurable for bowel complaint in all its forms. It
relieves pain in the stomach, dysentery, diarrhoea and colic. It has been the means
of saving more pain and suffering than any other known remedy. Thousands of
mothers in all parts of the world have given it to their children and now sing its
praises. This medicine is especially valuable in checking Diarrhoea which nearly
always attacks the babies when teething. One dose will relieve pains in the stomach,
and it seldom takes more than three or four doses to stop a severe attack of Diarrhoea.
Always take Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy at the first unusual:
looseness of the bowels. There is no class of ailments that attack the system quicker
than bowel complaints and when a medicine is wanted it is wanted quickly.
has made Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy so popular is that the
is just as quick. It is a medicine that should be kept in the home at all times and ™
advise you to procure a bottle at once, for it will save trouble later on and perhaps be
the means of saving a life.
0
M
re?
v
i
The most persistent and troublesome ai-
ment known —the cause of headache an
languid feeling —the forerunner
diseases —is cured by Chamberlains da
lets. Then most of the other ailmem
vanish because nature has a free chance
work. Chamberlain’s Tablets are
simple and reliable remedy.
done might others do too. There was no
longer time to roll the rock over it from
above —and I cursed my cunning that it had
failed me in not making this place of attack
secure when yet the way was clear to do so.
Something—l know not what —made me turn
to you. You would know the way of its
closing from within, and you must show me.
With this I turned on you—it was all in
a far shorter space than I take to
tell it —and spat out the order through my
tightened lips. I would have killed you had
you failed me. I think you read this in my
face, for straightway you got a long thong
of greenhide, and. throwing it through the
hole, looped it over the hanging rock. Then
you drew the thong tight, pulling with both
hands. I saw it was more than your strength
could compass, and, like a madman, > I
snatched it from you and pulled till the veins
of my neck purpled and were like to burst.
The rock swayed for an instant. I pulled
anew, and, with a loud thud, it fell into
its place, completely covering the hole.
Now I was safe from that quarter —and
not too soon either. I pushed you to your
corner again, and, as I looked out the cave
opening, there they were, the four of them,
almost within hurling distance of the cave.
1 took his club from the wall, and posting
myself behind a ledge of rock beside the
opening, waited their attack.
I had not long to wait. Crash—crash —
crash —crash. Four great rocks hurtled past
me into the cave, doing me no hurt because
of the protecting ledge. Perhaps you were
hurt —the thought flashed through me. No,
there you were behind me. with a look in
your eyes so wondrous strange that I knew
not what it was. But it made me grip mv
club the tighter, ready for their rush-
made the battle lust so riot in my blood that
I could scarce restrain myself from rushing
out upon the four of them, there in the
open. „ , _ , .
But still I was the Crafty One—and I
waited. I would let you see the worth of
me. Poor indeed would you hold the Bed
One then. If you chose to attack me from
behind when I was in the thick of the
combat —it was well. But again that some-
thing told me you would not —that look in
vour eyes I think it was that told me so.
‘ But hark! The patter of bare, rushing
feet on the sandy entrance to the cave. -they
were coming. I stood back a step with my
club held ready for the swing. Yes, it was
they! I saw a shadow flash for an instant
—I caught just a glimpse of rushing faces
then I leapt a step forward and swung.
Was ever blow like it! It smashed
through one man’s head as were it so much
rotten tinder —smashed through it, and,
scarcely stayed in its might, felled another
to the ground with. the same swing. Oh,
it was grand ; I shrieked in my joy . They
were upon me —there were still two. And
how we fought! A blow on my side, its
force part spent on my swinging club,
crashed against my ribs. I felt them broken
and crunching against one another within
me. Another, aimed too high, chipped my
scalp. Then I smote as never man smote
he f ore _ an( j the third went down to me,
fell a slaughtered lump of flesh at my feet.
But it was too late. A blow broke my
striking arm at the shoulder, and bone
stuck out through the battered flesh, .tag-
ging my cheek as I moved. There was only
one man left, but my time was come.. I
was reeling like a sapling in the whirlwind,
and blood poured from my mouth and ears
in a torrent.
Yet even then I thought of you—strange
that it was you and not my murdered
brothers of whom I thought in that last
moment. And it gave me new strength,
this thought of you. I threw down my
club, and with a yell grappled my man,
my legs round his body, my one hand
clutching bis windpipe to tear it from his
throat. We swayed together—l felt his
hot, gasping breath on my cheek—he was
bearing me down-; —soon he would have me
at. a length to kill and. . . .
Crash.... then the rock came that
crushed his face before my eyes—the rock
that you threw. His club fell to the
ground—his grip relaxed, and I felt his
legs twitching against mine in his agony.
I tried to turn towards you—l could not.
All was blackness —and we fell together,
he, the last of the four, and I.
All this was ten thousand years. ago—
and yet to-day. when you passed me in your
silks' and your high-heeled boots and your
Paris hat. you did not know me!
At which of us. him or me, did you hurl
that rock?
BERNARD INGLERY.
Under Police Protection.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
LISTEN !” cried Alice tragically.
“It’s the wind!” I suggested
tremulously.
“Yes. of course it's the wind ! chatteied
Grace. But her grip on my arm tightened
as she said it, and my own heart fairly
thudded. We all listened breathlessly.
Three nervous girls in an isolated villa
on a dark, gusty night, a masked burglar
scare in full blast, and a well-read evening
paper full of tragedies lying open on the
table. Here were all the ingredients tor a
panic, waiting only the imagined stealthy
footfall, or the rattle of a loose window sash
“There! A footstep on the hack
verandah! What shall we do?” Alice rose
swiftly to her feet and looked wildly at me.
“Are you sure?" I faltered.
Grace whispered, half to herself, I—l m
almost sure I heard something!”
That was sufficient. Alice simply flung
herself at the telephone. In an incredibly
short period she had got the local police
station and was gasping out her story.
There was a strange man prowling round
Mr. Smithjones’ place in King Avenue, and
would they please send a constable down at
once. A rich Hibernian voice—(l was lis-
tening intently at the odd end of the instru-
ment and can vouch for it) —promised very
heartily that they would, and “not to be
frightened now, but just wait a few min-
“Oh, thank you!” sobbed Alice. (The
vay she said it would have enslaved a chief
commissioner.) , ~ ,
“Sure, don’t let it trouble you,” cooed that
most divine voice. “If ever you’re ner-rvous
about these villyuns ring up th’ station.
“So GOOD of you!” moaned Alice, re-
luctant to let him go.
“Th’ man will be there soon. Good -night,
Miss.” (This somewhat hurriedly. I fancy
his wife or a sub-inspector must have
dropped in on him.)
“Good-night, and thank you ever so
much !”
The tinkling ring-off made us all shiver
with loneliness in the dimly-lit hall. We
crowded back to the dining-room and
huddled round the fire, where we told off
the minutes till something vast but unmis-
takable tramped heavily on to the verandah
and battered thunderously on the door. W e
opened it to the very largest policeman in
the whole State.
“Good evenin’,” he said, and his voice
sounded like the cathedral organ in its in-
trospective moments. “Th’ Sergeant sent
me down to take charge.”
“Please come in!” we chorused, and led
the immense, solemn man down the hall, to
the cosy dining-room. At our earnest solici-
tation, he lowered himself into the great
leather armchair in which our middle-weight
uncle looks like a half-grown boy. He filled
it completely with brawn, blue serge tunic
and bright silver buttons. Then very slowly
and deliberately he laid on the table one hel-
met, one pair of handcuffs, one baton and
one terrible-looking service revolver fully
loaded. Then, being incited thereto, he
found one pipe and filled it with uncle’s
tobacco. When he had lit it and -felt thor-
oughly at home, he told us in plain official
language of riots and raids and arrests till
the mere money-making existence of dear
but absent uncle seemed a wretched thing
by comparison. We girls crouched round
the fire listening to his rumbling voice and
the wind, and gloating secretly over his
superb physique. The night had no terrors
for us now!
“Fancy,” whispered Grace, when he was
explaining some legal technicality to Alice;
“just fancy any larrikin trying to knock him
down and kick him !”
At 11.30 Alice remarked in an apologetic
way that she was afraid we really must go
to bed now. Before we went we laid out a
nice little supper, put the decanter, cigars and
papers handy, and implored him to make
himself comfortable. He respectfully pro-
mised that he would, but intimated that he
must keep on the lookout for the man we
had seen. (Alice gave a guilty start at this.
Somehow that man did not seem to be such
a real terror now.)
We fluttered thankfully off to bed, assur-
ing one another that to-night at least we
would be able to sleep soundly. Eventually
we ceased talking in the dark, and snuggled
down on our untroubled pillows.... Half-
way to dreams, a rasping, explosive sound
shocked me back to complete consciousness.
“What was that?” three meek voices
chimed together.
“It must have been him clearing his
throat.”
Of course. We sighed once each and re-
sumed our pillows.
He cleared his splendid, bronzed throat
three times before I beat him and won to
sleep. But I simply had to wake up half an
hour later when he creaked down the hall on
his first round of inspection. There were
numerous things in that dark hall to fall
over, and he fell over them all with the
thoroughness of a large, patient animal with
large unbreakable shins. There were loose
boards all along the verandah, and he tried
them all with his 1& —or 26 —stone of brawn.
The house —solid and comfortable enough
hitherto-seemed suddenly old and ram-
shackle, and jerry-built.
“I do wish he wouldn’t make such a
noise!” moaned a voice—Grace’s.
“You ought to be very thankful he’s here !”
retorted his devoted admirer. (For an en-
gaged girl, I really think Alice rather over-
did it.)
“But why doesn’t he w 7 alk on his toes?” 1
asked plaintively.
Grace snapped back: “But that won’t
make him any lighter, xvill it?”
The careful closing of the front door, and
another subdued but wall-shaking cough
shamed us into silence.
As I drew the clothes over my head I heard
him put down his tremendous revolver and
livht a match. The delightful aroma of one
of uncle’s cigars hung in the air as I dozed
off. . . .
“ He's been whistling that tune through
his teeth for the last half-hour!” Never
have I heard a more vindictive whisper than
Grace’s. It was “The Minstrel Boy”—a
rather imperfect rendering of the well-known
classic, but still recognisable.
“Perhaps he’ll stop soon,” sighed Alice.
“Well, I hope so!”
“Must be past two now,” I ventured. “I
suppose it’s awfully lonely-for him in there.”
Silence. . . .
“Oh, it’s no good ! I can’t sleep !” I
awoke blinking to find the gas blazing and
Grace in a blazing temper sitting up straight
in bed.
“What’s the matter now?”
“Oh, it’s all very well for you! You just
lie there and sleep through it all, but I hear
every move that great hulking brute makes !
Do you know how many times he’s been
round the house?”
“Yes, I do! He’s been round just five
times, and he’s cleared his throat 45 times.
He dropped his baton on the fender once
and knocked out his pipe on the bars of the
grate three times. There!”
“Oh, I see you’ve been aw’ake some of the
time !”
“Every minute!” I replied grimly.
Alice rose up > in bed haggard-eyed.
“What’s the time?”
“Half-past five. Been awake long?”
“From the start of ‘The Minstrel Boy,’ ”
she sighed, and lay down like a woman with
a broken heart.
Thenceforward we lay in our little beds
and waited without speaking for the dawn.
At six, loyal Alice got up, put on a kimono
and made tea for our faithful protector.
He absorbed three cups, received her heart-
felt thanks, and creaked heavily off the
trembling premises into a dew-drenched
world.
He was a magnificent specimen of a man
—the sort of specimen that should be kept
out in the solid street, or in a stone-flagged
temple—anywhere, in fact, where there are
no loose boards or light furniture. Nowa-
days we all bow to Muldoon (its name was
Muldoon), and are very nice to the fatherly
old Sergeant. They acknowledge our bows
with grave dignity. Of course, it wasn’t
their fault that all uncle's valuable fowls
were stolen during the long Muldoonic vigiL
Still the roost remains.
NANCY O'FERRALL.


WESTINGHOUSE
(MORSE) CHAIN DRIVES
K
.7-7
,rs’
For heavy machine tool
WORK, and for every type
of high-speed power trans=
mission, WFSI INGHOLSE (Morse
CHAIN DRIVES are pre-eminent
because of their patented feature,
The Rocker Joint,
which eliminates sliding friction
at the joint and the consequent
loss of power.
s
The Westinghouse Brake
Queensland Agents—Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
New Zealand Agents—Philips & Pike, Wellington.
Full Particulars from
Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
CONCORD WEST, N.S. WALES. ~
TWO GOOD LINES
ERS
*
NOT a Boiler Fluid, but a Preparation containing Pure Carbon to be applied
to the internal surfaces of boilers like a paint. Absolutely prevents pitting and
corrosion and the deposit of hard scale. Used regularly by the New South
W ales Government Railways and Tramways, Sydney Municipal Council, and
many of the Largest Steam Users in Australia.
AULD’S REDUCING VALVES.
The World's Standard Reducing Valve for Steam, Air or Water. Simple and
Reliable. Hundreds in use in Australia. We carry heavy stocks of all sixes.
ALSO AGENTS FOR-
Engeibert’s Famous Oils, Nichols’ Boiler Feed Pumps,
Stirling Water Tube Boilers, etc., etc.
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Metz-“22 ” £l9O
The Simple Car for the Country.
These Serviceable Cars are at Work all over N.s.W.
If you require a Simple, Economical, Reliable and Moderately-priced Car it will
pay you to investigate the METZ. Friction Drive (eliminating complicated
gear wheels), 22 H.P., 4 cyl. Bosch Ignition, clearance, 45m. p. hour,
33m. p. gallon.
375 Kent
The British-built
Waver ley, £350.
Indian Motocycles,
85g'ns.
GOLDFIELDS DIAMOND DRILLING CO.Pty.Ltd.
331 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Works-Sturt St.. South Melbourne.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Armstrong Traction Well-Boring Machine
MOVES WITHOUT HORSES
RUMELY KEROSENE
OIL TRACTORS,
ALL-STEEL BORING PLANTS,
TOOLS AND CASING.
Gasoline and Kerosene Engines,
Pumps, Windmills, Silos, Hay
Presses, Wagons, etc., etc.
fd
ivouno
ALOciUJfl
illustrated
'throughout
—.will be
posted free to those desirous of
.shopping by mail. We sell, carriage
ipaid, Jewellery. Watches. Gramo-
I phones, Guns, Novelties of all kinds,
many unobtainable elsewhere,
Rubber Stamps. Music. Musical In-
, struments, etc., etc. Bole agents for Wilson's Ear
Drums for Deafness. Ramey’s Medlcator fos Catarrh
Write, mentioning this paper to:—
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY. 229 Collins Street. Melbourne
ASTH MA CURE
GRIMAIILT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty In expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMATJLT A Co's INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Sold by all ChetnUts.
THE
LONE HAND
A
Monthly Guide for everything
Australian.
6d.
TobeoufoHK
jajh’ioiv
It) TO BE
OUT OTTIIE
WORLD,
BE IN THE
fASHIQN
JIND
TAKE
Oeechamj
Pills.
'• . ‘ •.-■•V'
LARGEST SALE
IN THE WORLD:
: -
r
l ***
Ml
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
. . . AT . . .
THE BANKING HOUSE, 223 Pitt Street,
Opposite PALACE THEATRE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LENDS MONEY ON ALL SECURITIES, including Furniture,
FROM 10 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
FRED. McWILLIAM, Manager.
ss
c^s
Si
20th Century Band baw.
KIRCHNER’S
Woodworking Machines
are giving satisfaction.
Write for Catalogue and Information
direct to the
MANUFACTURERS-
KIRCHNER & GO.,
32 Market Street, SYDNEY
Automatic
Knife Grinding
Machine.
The WATEROUS Mill
Is a Sure Starter and a Good Finisher
The race is to the swift, the battle to the strong. For many years now the
Waterous Mill has been leading in the great race for sawmill supremacy.
It made a good start by creating an effective design which has been con-
stantly improved. It was so solidly built that the strain of a long run never
told And its capacity for hard work, and lots of it, has never been equalled.
That’s why the Waterous leads all over the world. That’s why you should
ask our Exnert to go into the matter carefully and see how such a mill
would suit you. We are prepared to instal mills for the heaviest capacities.
In addition to Band and Circular Mills we make a special feature of General
Woodworking Machinery by makers whose names are a guarantee of
efficiency.
PANEL PLANERS.
3 & 4 CUTTER PLANERS
SPINDLE MOULDERS
CHAIN MORTISERS
TENONING MACHINES
SANDERS
WOOD-BENDING MACHINES
CONCAVE FELLOE SAWING MACHINES
TWO-SIDE FELLOE PLANING MACHINES
SPOKE AND HANDLE BLANK SAWS
DOVE-TAILERS
AUTOMATIC HUB TURNING MACHINES
CASH OR TERMS.
T. M. GOODALL & CO. LTD.
Universal Machinery Merchants,
303-5 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack partitions
and have a Fire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MACK LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
m:
' a
'\£t
i .*
12in Fan
taking
45 Watts.
If i MC For All Voltages
r /ill O an d Systems.
Stocked in Desk, Wall and Ceiling Types.
Rigid Body, Swivel and Trunnion, and Oscillating Patterns.
PRICES MODERATE. Send for Lists.
hfd
OF AUSTRALIA Ltd,
SYDNEY : Wynyard Lane. 3520 city.
MELBOURNE: 61 William Street. 5117 city
BRISBANE: Corner Saul 8 Roma Streets. 3070 central
It is the Power
Your Belt
Transmits
that
Counts.
a®
w,
as
tz:
■se
Be
Sure
and
Specify
DICK’S
BELTING
Sole Agents—
Hardie 8 Co.
Circular Quay,
SYDNEY.
And MELBOURNE.
TH
t
DALGETY & C 9 LTP,
Anm«
S*o93§S
“ Union ” Harvester.
T*f
my
Clayton & Shuitleworth
Portable Steam Engine.
Tangye Kerosene Oil Engine.
DALGETY 8 COMPANY LIMITED,
Machinery Merchants, Miller’s Point, SYDNEY, and all Branches.
AGENCIES
TANGYES: Oil and Benzine Engines, Suction Gas Plants, Steam Engines, Boilers, Pumps of all
nT Blocks ’ Hydraulic Jacks, Screw Jacks, Bears, etc., etc.
rumsot : Portable Steam & Tractidn Engines, Steam Road Rollers, etc.
S >!ORBOW: “ Union ” Farm Implements, comprising Harvesters, Drills, etc.
WOLSELEY Sheep Shearing Machines. MUNRO Chaffcutters and Saw Benches.
GANE MILKING MACHINES.
h
mmm
/
m
VJ y
NAT
OIL ENGINES
Suitable for both
MARINE and STATIONARY PURPOSES.
BRITISH MADE.
Cost of Running—
-6-1 Oth s of a penny
per B.H.P. per hour .
Soie
Agents:
WARBURTON, FRANMI,
307-311 Kent St.,
SYDNEY.
fd
Do as hundreds of other
Shearers are doing—buy
Lister Combs and Cutters
and get the best that can
be made.
0
en
is
AGENTS-
Co.
-
9=13 YOUNG STREET, SYDNEY
COMBS
AND ;
CUTTERS.
CUTTERS, 6d. each.
COMBS, 2s. each.
m
ass
SUNSHINE ENGINES
for driving Chaffcutters, Saw Benches, Pumps, Dynamos, Graders, Hoists, Mortar Mills, etc.
H. V. McKAYSunshine, Vic. Adelaide Brisbane Sydney Melbourne.
The ALBANY Patent Water-sealed Rotary Pump.
PATENTED IN ALL COUNTRIES.
The most important feature of these pumps is the fact that slip and leakage have been reduced to a minimum by the introduction of grooves cut
along the faces and edges of the teeth, so that, in rotating, a body of water lodges in the grooves, forming an absolute, sealed, water-tight joint or
cushion between the casing and rotating rollers, thereby producing an efficient vacuum.
The position of the pump has become assured wherever electrically-driven pumps are required; and in the improved type all wear is eliminated
from the internal members by the introduction of steel spur wheels, fitted in a suitable gear box outside the pump cover—and by means of which
the whole of the Power is Transmitted.
NO SKILLED MECHANIC REQUIRED. NO VALVES REQUIRED.
Suitable for boiler feed, deep wells, hot liquids, boiling soap, oil, tar, crude petroleum, fats, and other liquids of high gravity, also gas exhausters.
The smaller sizes are specially adapted for forced lubrication.
, All Sizes from 1 to 6 inches Stocked.
Sole
Agents-
•9
Sydney & Melbourne.
