

MELLOWbU BY AUt.
R. 6. WjSk.Tzs.xnrs «sc co.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS TOR MACHINERY., etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes of SECURITY.
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
N.S.W. MONT DE PIETE D. & I. GO., LTD.,
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAOH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite National Amphitheatre. Telephone: No. 225 Central.
And at
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
HMiiTtywni
m
CommßCi*' '**bew ]/4 iiw worn otmiic otpos>r mrnsiwtin c?i
H
JEL O JB A. fl 'X*.
7 ——
Jjadleys Orient fjotel.
COLORED rOST-CARDS. by Harry J.
Weston—“WEEKLY WORRIES.” Set
of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin News-
paper Co., 214 George Street, Sydney.
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING
Gijahantrkd
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
muttons
\ II 11TTT 1 'T|'* ———P"
fiAMSwßMfifii
- 5.H.8.
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
32 RECIPES
lor preparing a variety of the most
dainty Desserts with
Junket
will be forwarded, Post Free to Any
Address, on application to
T. 8., Box 577, G.P.0., Sydney.
PALMER CORD
are specially constructed to ensure Long Service.
the silvertown RUBBER CO.,
SYDNEY-MELBOURNE-NEW CASTLE
D » BECK’S LAGER BEER
- *ft-s
ITlt
V
-
<n
Bungalows lend themselves to White
treatment.
On the North Shore of Sydney Harbor, in the pretty Suburbs of our other Capitals, in our Country
Touts everywhere. WHITE MAI/THOU) will help considerably to give Distinction and Charm to
the Home The effect of the white roof is wonderful amidst foliage, and the added Comfort which
the Home, int eiieci Asbestos coating protects the home from the extremes of heat and
“ 7o« ir?hilict fhaj WHITE MAIjTHOII> Boot on your new house.
Booklets and suggestions for the asking.
chains House, The Paraffine Paint Co. Sydney.
tsian /WdficiCfGr>
A. o'onrioc FvArvwKArA.
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE* CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY U?
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY U°
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
MODERN MOTOR TRACTION
THE “BIG 4” THIRTY
As a means of hauling, ploughing, breaking, harvesting, etc.,
the “ BIQ 4 ” is cheaper and more efficient.
Hauls on the road heavier loads at one-third the cost of Steam
Traction Engines.
Guaranteed the equal of 30 horses. Free Booklet on request.
jKojfflt-Virtue £L d .
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
352 Kent St. (near King st.), Sydney.
HELIDON SPA
Please choose 1 your “SPA” carefully.
You may be penalised otherwise.
STARKEYS LTD., Agents,
Phillip St., Sydney, and Red fern
The Bulletin
Vol. 34. —N0. 1754.]
[Thursday, September 25, 1913.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a [Newspaper.


The Woman Thou Gavest Me
Hall Caine’s Greatest Novel. Price 3/6, posted 3/0.
"Deeply interesting as a story appealing to all thoughtful readers, for its frank find fearless
discussion of some of the problems of modern social life.”—London Daily Telegraph.
Enormous first supply nearly exhausted. Order immediately.
From GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROP’T’Y, LTD., 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Hudson’s EUMENTHOL Tooth
Powder
SECURES SOUND
WH.TE TEETH.
This Powder is not only an Antiseptic and
Germicide, but cleansed mechanically, owing
to the evolution of free active oxygen when
the powder 1 is in contact with water or the
oral fluids. It is the oxygen which, by neu-
tralising the acid-producing organisms of de-
cay. and dissolving mischievous i deposits,
whitens the teeth so wonderfully, and wards
off decay as no other preparation for the
Teeth can or will do. Scientists agree that
a powder is superior to any liquid or paste
for cleansing and preserving the Teeth. The
Committee of the British Dental Association
recommend powder as best for the Teeth.
Sold by all Chemists in our patent stopper metal bottles, handy for
travel or home, price 1/6, forwarded free on receipt of stamps.
Hudson’s Eumenthol Chemical Co. Ltd., i9YorkSt„ Sydney.
Forwarded Free, our New Book containing valuable Information
11 regarding the Teeth.
,HOW TO USE THE POWDER.i
CSC
yir
c o
3
The Red Page
The Making of Australia
Bernhard Ringrose Wise, in The Making
of the Australian Commonwealth (Long-
mans, Green, per Sydney Book Club), bril-
liantly tells the story of Federation. His
book is dedicated “to the 71.9(35 electors of
N.S.W. who voted ‘Yes’ on June 3,189 ST
It is no histoire documentee that he gives
us, but the record of an eye-witness of, and
participator in, the pregnant events of the
critical period from 1889 to 3900. Begin-
ning with Parkes’s Tenterfield speech for
federation in the former year, Wise carries
the drama of the- fight for the Common-
wealth to its triumphant conclusion, and
brings the chief personalities in that great
contest vividly, before our eyes. Great
names figure in his cast of characters ; his
heroes are many; and all ready to succor
and defend the lone heroine, Australia, with
her qs yet unborn chee-ild. But the play
has its villain, a grotesque villain, “con-
sistent only in inconsistency.” a gibing,
sinister, genial FalstalT. playing in turn "the
part of open enemy, candid friend and en-
thusiatic supporter, contradicting himself in
each character with imperturbable serenity.”
And even the playwright finds it difficult
to probe to the inner heart of his villain.
"It was difficult to understand him at the
time.” he writes in his stage r directions.
“Posterity may find this impossible. He is
the enigma of the federal movement, who
played a pgrt which historians cannot
ignore, but (he explanation of which may
prove a formidable difficulty.”
But Nemesis was waiting for him—and,
dramatically, it waited till the fifth act.
Twice, in crises of the federal movement,-
its leader was sacrificed to faction, because
he urged a too exalted wisdom on an unappre-
ciative public. Mr. Barton lost his seat in
1894 for having dreamed that he could sway
a hostile Cabinet to the support of Federa-
tion; and, in the next year, Sir Henry
Parkes was driven out of public life, because
he counselled a truce to party warfare in the
interest of a higher patriotism. Each of
these events had turned to Mr. Reid’s advan-
tage, at a time when lie was still waiting
upon Providence ! Now. when he had done
finally with doubt and indecision, ironic
Fate was to deal him the same shrewd
blow !
Reid, as Premier of N.S.W.. would have
got the mandate to form the first Australian
Ministry ; but, with that prize almost within
his gras?>. he was hutled from office. But,
though Wjse rings down his curtain o” the
defeat of villainy and virtue triumphant,
life, even political life, is not like that. If
a villain is only sufficiently rotund and suf-
ficiently resilient, the harder you hurl him
down the higher he will bounce. This vil-
lain bounced so high that he landed in
London as High Commissioner.
Though dignified in treatment of his great
subject, Bernhard Wise is never dull, llis
comments are pointed: and bis attitude
will commend itself to all Good Australians.
Thus he sums his results :
Australia entered upon a new era of
political and material progress. It is too
early yet fully to appraise the greatness of
the change. The breaking down of provin-
cial barriers and the establishment of a pro-
tective policy have stimulated every in-
dustry, and a cycle of good seasons and high
prices has diffused and increased a general
prosperity. Provincialism, however, died
hard, and is struggling still in its death
throes : but the wider horizon of a national
life will never contract, and the responsibili-
ties of nationhood are being accepted with
courage and cheerfulness. If Parliament has
not fulfilled all expectations, it is neverthe-
less superior to the legislative bodies of the
States; and it must be remembered that its
usefulness has been impaired by unexpected
decisions of the High Court against the
validity of many of its most important meas-
ures. No reflecting person would return
willingly to the old provincial divisions. The
remedy for the defects of the Constitution
is to be found rather in the extension of
federal powers, -with an extension of local
government by subdivisions of the larger
"States. Only by this means can he secured
that “enlargement of the powers of self-
government of the people of Australia” which
was the declared object of the Constitution.
♦
My Climbing Adventures in Four Con-
tinents. by Samuel Turner (Unwin. 55.), a
rather egotistical record by a climber who
perhaps has earned his egotism, has interest
for us in his graphic account of the first—
and likely to be the last—traverse made
across Mt. Cook. Turner regards the M.L.
heap of rock and ice as one of the most
difficult mountains in the world to climb—
and he has climbed nearly all. “It is a
question whether if it is possible to find a
mountain outside the Himalayas where
there is 10,000 feet of sheer climbing from
the valley. Mountains that are 18,000 feet
m most ranges in the world' are gradual
slopes. Most peaks can be walked up to
within 4000 or 5000 feet from the summit.”
Turner discreetly expresses his doubt
whether Zurbriggen really reached the top-
most of the three summits of Mt. Cook;
and the published statements of that famous
guide indicate that “some mistake had been
made.” The illustrations from photographs
are numerous and remarkable. It seems a
pity that Turner did not add Kosciusko to
his little list. He could have done it com-
fortably in a motor-car. ,
The Love-Leiters of [?]
Bronte
There are just four of them, and they have
just been handed to the British Museum by
the son of iTotessur lieger, at whose school
in Brussels Charlotte was employed as a
governess. Biographers have fought over
the question whether there was an "affair”
between the mairied professor and the girl
—he was the M. Paul Emanuel of Villette.
Evidence from her works has been adduced
to prove, and also to disprove, this piquant
allegation. The question is settled, not only
by the tenor of these letters, but by the pen-
cilled note made on the last one by the
highly respectable professor. Charlotte fell
in love with him ; but he gave her no encour-
agement. And the heart-broken Charlotte
sends him from England four letters at long
intervals, since “you have authorised me to
do so.” She complains that she cannot write :
her sight is too weak. Otherwise, “I should
write a book, and I should dedicate it to my
literature master—to the only master I ever
had —to you, Monsieur.” But he did not
replv and the love-sick girl writes again:
“Day and night I find neither rest nor peace.
If I sleen I am disturbed by tormenting
dreams, in which I see you, always severe,
always grave, always incensed agaiust me.
....If my master withdraws his friendship
from me entirely. I shall be altogether with-
out hope ; if he gives me a little—just a little
—I shall be satisfied—happy: I shall have a
reason for living on. for working. . . .1 have
a hidden consciousness that some people, cold
and common-sense, in reading it would say,
‘She is talking nonsense,’ I would avenge
myself on such persons in no other way than
by wishing them one single day of the tor-
ments which I have suffered for eight
months. We should then see if they would
not talk nonsense, t00....1 tell you frankly
that I have tried meanwhile to forget you.
. . . .Why cannot I have just as much friend-
ship for you. as you for me —neither more
nor less? Then should I be so tranquil, so
free—l could keep silence then for ten years
without an effort.”
And on the edge of this letter the pro-
fessor made some commonplace notes in
pencil. One of these notes was the name
and address of a shoemaker! If Charlotte
had but known, what a climax this might
have made for one of her novels !
Will Dyson satirises the modern English
Sawdasty School of Acting .
The Non-Eternal Feminine
“Everything around woman has altered.
It would be inconceivable that her aspira-
tions alone should remain unchanged and
immutable. The supreme, law of life is the
adaptation to the surrounding environment.
The economic situation of woman being
radically modified, she instinctively makes
her preparations for an effectual struggle
with the surrounding conditions.... Femin-
ism, with its political and social demands,
is, in short, only the unfolding of the in-
stinct of preservation which compels woman
conform to the altered conditions. Her
former mode of life has failed ; her entrance
into factories and the lessening of her op-
portunities for founding a family have
created for her other conditions of existence,
and we are witnessing their logical develop-
ment.... The limits of her requirements,
soonetvor later, will reach the extreme limits
of the rights of man....To prevent woman
from passing through the cycle of her evolu-
tion, it would have been necessary to enclose
society within immovable frames. The idea
appears paradoxical, but that of woman
fixed in a type or types created by the past
is no less absurd.... We believe the eternal
feminine immovable, while it is developing
incessantly before our eyes.... The woman
of our times is not identical with the woman
of the days of our ancestors, and probably
she will nipt resemble the woman who will
be born in'the 25th or the 30th century.”
Upon this thesis Jean Finot, in Problems
of the Sexes (Nutt), basis his loosely scien-
tific plea for feminism. “The ascent of
man,” he declares, “has been arrested by
the immobility of woman.” Her revolution,
when consummated, he calls “the most mag-
nificent social transformation that has been
realised since the fall of the Roman Em-
pire.” And he sees no signs of a barrier to
the complete triumph of feminism in France.
With justice he points out that civilisation
is slowly feminising the male, and that as
the modern man is aiming at qualities that
woman has long possessed, she will find
herself more and more justified in claiming
equality with the bloke who is trying to
borrow her virtues. Rut. against the bio-
logists, he asserts that creative genius and
intelligence have no sex, forgetting the
radical influence the sexual glands, from
infancy, have upon every portion df the
body and brain. And among the achieve-
ments of woman he makes this ridiculous
claim : “Gall try-hoe, a young girl of Sicyon,
was the first person to make a sketch in
pencil, representing her betrothed husband.
And this originated the art of drawing" !
Finot wastes a lot of space in disproving
the alleged inferiority of woman, since the
male and the female have different functions
to perform, and no status of comparison can
exist between, say. woman’s capacity for
maternity and man’s creative genius. But
iu a chapter dealing with passion the French
author draws some highly interesting con-
clusions. Thus, for instance, he finds that
the sexual disadvantages under which all
women suffer are balanced, in the economy
■f the forces of the two sexes, by the cor-
respondingly serious effect of sex-attraction
upon the male. The female spider murders
and eats her husband: the modern human
female is almost as implacable.
Will the New Woman be beautiful?
Finot. in an interesting survey of the sub-
ject of feminine beauty, stresses the fact
that feminine beauty resides not in the
female, but in the mind of the spectator of
the female. Ideals of beauty have shown a
constant change, chiefly enforced by the
work of great artists. Botticelli painted a
consumptive as his Florentine Venus, and
so imposed upon a whole period the worship
of sloping shoulders, a long neck, and a
narrow, sunken chest. “Thin or fully de-
veloped women, with expressive or vacant
looks, succeed each other in modern art.”
“The change in feminine education will
give us other incarnations in beauty. Woman
will undoubtedly he stronger and larger, hut
she will not on that account he less beauti-
ful. A few incomplete specimens of this
future beauty are already seen among the
flower of the “four hundred” of New York.
They afford for us. like certain profes-
sional beauties in Europe, types of charm,
tact, strength and intelligence. But their
beauty is not that which the chisels of
Greek sculptors have engraved on our mem-
ories !.... The brain of woman, containing
more Ideas, will change its form, and. thanks
to the law of co-ordination, will cause a
modification of all the facial angles ; her in-
telligence, strengthened by the contact with
life, will give to her countenance a different
expression; her body, thanks to physical
exercises, will become more harmonious;
her grace will be blended with strength.”
The beauty of woman will assuredly
chnnge—but the ideal of feminine beauty
will with equal pace be modified in the
mind of the man. But she must first emanci-
pate herself from the dictates of the un-
known gods who prescribe her fashions for
her. ‘fWoman is always beautiful in spite
of. not on account of. her costume
Woman must be really beautiful if she
has been able to resist the assaults of fashion
during so many ages: for not only does it
render her ugly, but it injures her health. .. .
Her dress, in an equal degree, prevents her
from becoming a mother, from nursing her
child, and from being strong, robust and
graceful.”
However, she is going to change all that.
She is going to change herself.
Will Dyson shows us the Dalians at Home ,
including Bernard Shaw.
The supremacy of Will Dyson in the ait
of caricature is evidenced by the reproduc-
tions from. The Daily Herald, the London
Labor paper, of a series of his Cartoons. It
is obvious that in this later work of his lie
has been much influenced by the German
school of Jugend and Simplicissimus : but
his -work is essentially his own. essentially
Australian. The two reproductions shown
here necessarily suffer from a reduction in
size.
The Jew
Alias wer writesln reference to your
interesting article (4/9/’lSt;) entitled “Obit
“ary— I The Jew,” 1 wish to draw your atten
tion to one point. u
“There seems every chance of a total
merging of the Jews into Christendom"
11ns is wrong. There is a possible— perhans
probable—merging of the Jews into the
Lmversal religion of the future, the religion
that Rationalism lias founded, the religion
with one dogma. “Live well, do well, think
well" without the idea of propitiating the
Divine power by doing so or of exciting his
wrath by not doing so.
Rationalistic thought has cleared off all
theories of Divine interference in human
affairs, and is a step towards the Utopian
period when men will do right because it is
right, and not from the ulterior motive that
they please God by doing so or the baser
one that he will punish them for their sins.
But in doing this. Rationalism has struck
deep blows into the roots of all religions
Islam, Christianity, Judaism have all suf-
fered. Census figures count for naught. A
man is counted as an Anglican, or a Catho-
lic, or a Methodist, if lie be born as such,
except he distinctly revokes his religion. He
is not a Jew except he has undergone cer-
tain rites. Melbourne has not seating ac-
commodation in its churches for 25 per
cent, of its Christian population. What
religion are the other 75 per cent.?
I only wish to prove the same cause
that is attacking Judaism is attacking all
religions with set forms and dogmas.
One last word and I am finished.
Dr. Ruppin says that with the abandon-
ment of Yiddish —a kind of Lingua Franca
—comes the death of Jewry. Not so. In
all parts of Jewry there has been a wonder-
ful revival in the use of Looshan Kodish
(pure Hebrew-) as a living language. This
language is spoken by more to-day than
ever-before in the whole life of Jewry. I
board two little Australian-born children in
Ballarat talking to each other in this lan-
guage. And note, this is about as far from
the hub of the nation as can be.
I +
Recent shilling editions include The Viper
of Milan, by Marjorie Bowen (Alston
Rivers), Odd Craft, by W. W. Jacobs (Rod-
der and Stoughton, per George Robertson).
Newman’s Apologia pro Vita Sua (The Scott
Library, 2 vols). and Geographical Dis-
cover!/. by J. Jacobs, brought up to date
w-ith Scott’s Polar expedition (Hodder and
Stoughton’s Useful Knowledge Series, per
George Robertson).
“The honor paid to Mr. Bridges,” says
London Times, in reference to the new poet-
laureate, “is an honor paid to poetry.” It
terms Bridges "a poet and an earnest stu-
dent and practitioner of the art and science
of poetry. lie has studied profoundly and
practically the origins, the values, the phil-
osophy of words, of rhythms, of metres.
Probably no man living knows more of these
matters than Mr. Bridges.” Also he has ex-
hibited “a lofty passion for poetry.. He can-
not be said to w r rite for the public ear”; but
that large and useful organ will receive from
his poems, “not only a rich gift of beauty,
but an example of special value in days
when poetry shows a tendency to run wild —
the example of work which looks back to the
old, while commanding the allegiance of the
new.” In other words, the poet-laureate’s
Pegasus is, as suggested by this Page, no
buck-jumper. The Atiien.eum speaks of
Bridges as a careful and dignified artist,
without much appeal to the general public.
John Bailey, in an article in the Quarterly,
advocating Bridges’s claim to the job. admits
that his actual poetic achievement does not
include any single poem of the first magnitude.
“He has done nothing which can be brought
into comparison, either for quantity or for
quality, with the principal works of the
great 19th Century poets. ...His is a some-
what small voice of occasional intermittent
utterance, incapable of the sustained flights
of song which belong to men of higher and
more continuous inspiration. No sane ad-
miration of his work w-ill deny that it is that
of a minor poet. But within these limits it
may be said to be both fairly abundant and
almost invariably of fine quality.” Yet his
chief recommendation to his critic is that he
is so entirely English, so essentially an
untravelled and untroubled Islander. “No
poet, perhaps not even Wordsworth or
Tennyson or Cowper, has done more to fill
English fields and lanes with poefr.v.” But
even Bailey, trying hard not to damn with
faint praise, admits that the only part of
Bridges’s work that matters is the compara-
tively snfall section of lyrics. The' New
Age says that Bridges’s influence upon the
post must be for the worse, “for the affected
simplicity of his verse belongs amongst the
foolish things that confound the wise.
1 lowever, he is good enough for his day.”
The July Quarterly has an able and
stimulating article by W. L. Courtney upon
“Dramatic Construction and the Need for a
New Technique John Bailey analyses the
poetry of the new poet-laureate: and the
Bengali mystic. Ranindranth Tagore, whose
Song Offerings were noted here, is the sub-
ject of an informative article.


&
ace
FOR GUNS, RIFLES & all SPORTING REQUISITES
Try Anthony Horderns’ Famous Low Prices.
Hoilis & Sons’ D.8.8X Gun, Top Lover. 30-
ineh Twist Barrels, right modified, left full
choke bore, Greener Cross Bolt, Engine-turned
o- lb ; Hammers below line of sight, Bar Locks.
Pistol Grip, Walnut Stock £(?/*/_
With Steel Barrels £5/10/-
Hollis & Sons’ Special Pigeon Gun, 12-gauge, Damas-
cus Barrels, both Choke Bore, Greener Cross Bolt,
, Engine-turned Bib, Hammers below line of sight,
Chambered for 2f cases, and proved for all Nitro-
Powders, Walnut Heart Stock, Pistol Grip, neatly
engraved £lO/2/6
Scholefield’s Double-barrel Breech-loading
Bun, 12-gauge, Twist Barrels, Left Choke,
Bar Rebounding Looks, Plain Hand Stock —
£3/7/6
° Mayne’s Double-barrel Breechloading Gun, 12-gauge,
Twist Barrels, Back Actiou Locks, Hammers below line of
sight, neatly finished 77/-
No - .—Winch es Cer 32 Calibre Self-loading Rifle, Model
u :*> Down,” 22-inch Round Barrel, Straight Grin
Walnut Stock, with ladder rear sight, weight about 7Mb. —
No. 541 A.—Winchester
_ „ ... £4/18/0
S.S. Rifle, 1904 Model, to take 22
Calibre Short, Long or Extra Long Cartridges, Round Barrel
21 inches long, weight about 41b 24/6
As above, with Elevating Sight ' 25/0
No. 540 A.—Winchester 22 Calibre
Down,” to take Special Cartridge
inch Round Barrel, Plain Trigge
Stock, weight about of lb. —Rifle. . .
Cartridges
Automatic Rifle, “Take
(22 Calibre Automatic, 20-
r, Straight Grip, Walnut
£4/7/6 each
2/9 100 ; 25/- 1000
Hollis & Sons’ Single-barrel Breech-loading Gun, Twist Barrel,
Back Action, Rebounding Lock £4/4/-
With Steel Barrel £5/12/6
Blocked Leather
Leg o’ Mutton Gun
Cover, 20/-, 27/-,
30/-
J. O. Mayne’s Double-barrel Breech-loading Gun, Top
Lover, 12-gauge, Twist Barrels, Bar Lock, Rebounding
Locks, Snap Fore-end, Solid Strikers, Pistol Hand, Wal-
nut Stock, Hammers below line of sight £4/4/-
J. O. Mayne’s Double-barrel Breech-loading Gun, Steel
Barrels, Bar Locks, Greener Cross Bolt, Half Pistol, Hand
Stock £4/17/6
Hollis & Sons’ Hanimerless Double-barrel Breech-loading Gun,
Top Lever, Steel Barrels, Left Barrel Choke, Engine-turned Rib,
Greener Cross Bolt, Automatic Safe, Neatly Finished Walnut
Stock £9/10/-
With Side Clips
£ll/10/-
THE illustrations of Guns on this
page are in every instance
drawn from photographs of the
actual weapon, while the prices are
Anthony Horderns’
Famous Low Prices.
Write for Illustrated Price
List of Guns and Rifles,
posted free on application.
. ------
\V. W. Greener’s D.8.8.L. Hammerless Gun, Anson and Deeby Action, Independent
side safe, Greener’s Treble Wedge Fast Cross Bolt, 30-inch Steel Barrels, Chambered
for 2f cases. Full Choke both barrels. Plainly imished, without engraving, all the
value being in the barrels and action. Weight, 71b. to 7|lb £l3/10/-
Small Bore Breech-
Loading Guns.
Useful to Orchardlsts and others for
Destroying Vermin.
SUITABLE FOR LADIES’ USE.
The Tho'et Arms Co.’s Collector Gun,
Single-barrel, 4 10-gauge, 33/6;
Double-barrel, 34/= and 54/=
HOLLIS’ GUNS.
Single-barrel Breech-loading Gun,
410-gauge Collector, 55/-
Double-barrel Breech-loading Gun,
410-gauge Collector, Side Lever, 87/6 ;
Top Lever, £6/10/=
Hollis & Sons’ Double-barrel Breech-loading
Gun, The Panmure, Greener Cross Bolt, Sie-
man’s Martin Steel Barrels, extended Rib, ham-
mers below line of sight, Left Barrel Choke Bore,
good Steel Rebounding Locks, Half Pistol Hand
Stock, flat file-cut Rib, Snap Fore-end, Walnut
Heart Stock, Nitro-proof, and chambered for
2f cases
Hollis & Sons’ 12-gauge Double-barrel Breech-
loading Gun, The Commonwealth, Top Lever,
Percussion Fence, three Pin Bridle Locks, Left
Barrel Choke Bore, Half Pistol Hand, Walnut Stock,
Deeley-edge, Fore-end, Scroll engraved, Engine-
turned Rib, Greener Cross Bolt £9
Hollis & Sons’ Double-barrel Breech-loading Gun,
The Palace, 12-gauge, Steel Barrels, Left Choke,
Bar Action Locks, Extended Rib, Greener Cross
Bolt, Deeley-edge Fore-end, Walnut Stock, highly
finished £B/8/-
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


WINCHESTER
Win 'ches-ter rifle ? or Win
ches-ter. n (win ches-ter).
[After Oliver P. Winchester ( I S I O-
- Ainer. manufacturer. 1 A breech-
loading rifle with a tubular magazine
under the barrel holding five or more cart-
ridg .s inserted one by one from the rear, the
bolt being worked back and forth by a lever be-
neath. It ** * was introduced about 1866, and is i
world' wide use especially as a sporting arm.— (Webster'
New International Dictionary.)
WEBSTER’S SAYS
to' P
'WINCHESTER
m
m
□
□
,• !
m
Repeating Rifles Are “In World-Wide Use”
This statement is authentic. It could also have said with
equal truth that the reason why Winchester rifles are “in
world-wide use” is because they have been found by sports-
men everywhere to be superior in construction, absolutely
dependable, accurate and strong in shooting and moderate in
cost. Another reason is that Winchester rifles are made in
all desirable calibers, from .22 to .50, and in various styles and
models, suited to individual, tastes, and to all kinds of shooting.
%*finchester Cartridges are also “in world-wide use. In
W Winchester and all other rifles and in revolvers, they
can be depended on to give the best results. Made for all arms.
Dealers Everywhere Recommend the W Brand
o
m
□
m
ca
E 3
Q
E
m
m
KM
rnrnr
Real Sporting Lines in a Gun
YOU won't put looks before real solid shooting 1
ability, of course* But where workmanship
and reputation are equal, the gun with the
clean trim lines is your choice*
Thousands of sportsmen the world over have
first chosen a Remington for its looks and have
been delighted to find that they had an arm that
was a little faster—a little closer shooting—than
any rifle or shotgun they had ever owned*
The thoroughbred lines of a Remington are
the result of —perfect balance —the elimination of
the protruding hammer—the closing of the breech.
Both these last are safety points, too, which are
well worth a shooter’s closest study*
We will be glad to send a booklet that explains
simply these and other technical points of gun
construction. Just send your name and post-office
address to-day.
Remington Arms - Union Metallic Cartridge Co.
\ustralian Agent, D. D. Bryant, P. O. Box 686, Melbourne
New York London
SPECIAL NOTICE.
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
ARF PREPARED TO PURCHASE ORES, CONCENTRATES AND
FURNACE PRODUCTS containing Gold and Copper at most favor-
ATSO a TO INSPECT MINING PROPERTIES with a view to Develop-
ing, Financing, or Purchasing same.
Address : MR. B. MAGNUS, General Manager, MOUNT MORGAN, QUEENSLAND.
TOOTH &. CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
"JO
hdfa l
X
STEVENS
GOOD, STRONG, CLOSE SHOOTERS.
Choke bored for nitro powder. Case hard-
ened frame.
For any standard make of ammunition.
12, 10 and 20 gauge —in standard lengths
and weights.
Stevens Single Barrel Shot GtinS
Every gun rigidly tested. Order from your
Dealer.
For latest Stevens information —illustrated
catalogs, etc., communicate with
ARTHUR H. HILL,
Australian Representative for J. Stevens Arms
& Tool Company,
U.P.O. Box 86, Adelaide, South Australia. [5
LET YOUR SELECTION BE A
PIEPER BAYARD (SUN
AND B£ satisfied.
Each Weapon
Warranted fi
Government
Proof Marked.
Write to our Representative, Mr. W. A. COX, G.P.O. Box 873, Sydney,
for Booklets, post free.
OURCAT
K
illustrated
’throughout
•—will be
posted free to those desirous of
shopping by Trail. We sell, carriage
!paid, Jewellery. Watches. Gramo-
; phones, Guns, Novelties of all kinds,
many unobtainable elsewhere,
Rubber Stamps. Music ; Musical In-
struments, etc., etc. Sole agents for Wilson’s Ear
Drums for Deafness Ramey’s Medicator lom Catarrh
Write, mentioning thi« paper to:— _ „
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY. 229 Collins Str-et. Mflbnnmo
asthmacure
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma,Nervous Conehs,
Catarrh. Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Bold by all ChemitU.
:
A Picture of
Good Health!
Mrs. ADDINGTON, of Argent Street, Broken
Hill, writes her daughter was cured of St. \ituss
Dance, and is NOW IN SPLENDID HEALTH
through CLEMENTS TONIC.
“Argent Street, North Broken Hill,
“10th October, 1911.
“CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
“Some years ago my daughter, in alighting fro™
a tram, had a severe fall. It gave her a grea
shock, and so affected her nervous system that
eventually St. Vitus’s Dance ensued. She became
so bad that it was impossible to hold a knite or
fork, and going out of the house was impossibte.
“I was persuaded to try CLEMENTS TONIC. She gradually impro
soon regained her normal condition. Nearly two years have elapsed ea lth
COMPLETE RECOVERY, and all that time she has enjoyed the best of heat •
“I have great faith in CLEMENTS TONIC, and always recommend it. Xo
can make what use you wish of thi ?; (gigned} (Mrg>) R . A . ADDINGTON.”
CLEMENTS TONIC is Your MEDICINE
The Rev. JOHN HOSKING, D.D., Minister of
the Congregational Church, Fitzroy, Melbourne,
writes: —
“I was completely run down and suffered by
nervous prostration, being troubled with Insomnia
and nervous headaches.
“After taking one bottle I slept soundly, and soon
got stronger. One bottle put me right, and was
worth its weight in gold. I recommend this medi-
cine very strongly. You may use this as you think
St ' “(Signed) JOHN HOSKING, D.D.”
This Testimony should convince anyone suffering
from INSOMNIA or LOSS OF SLEEP and
NERVOUS BREAKDOWN, of the value of this
curative medicine.
GET IT, AND GET WELL.
All Chemists and Stores sell it everywhere.
I""**


DON'T NEGLECT
YOUR HAIR
Your looks demand that you
should take care of it, make
it more beautiful, more lus-
trous, softer ; you can easily
and readily do so by using
ROWLAND’S
MACASSAR
OIL
which nourishes, strengthens,
nurtures, and promotes the
growth of Fine Silky Hair;
you will notice an improve-
ment from the first time you
use it. Use it for your own
and your Children’s Hair;
G> lden Colour tor Fair Hair.
S dd in three sizes by Stores,
Chemists, and Rowland’s,
67, Hatton Garden, London.
Avoid cheap imitations under
the same or similar name.
WORLD’S CYCLE RECORD
M. Planes on a 7 year old British-made All-
Steel mead Models Superbe
' COVENTRY FLYER ’
Rod,- 34,366 Milos in 365 Days
(officially authenticated'. Beat ov*r 650 coin-
petitors on up-to-date cycles.
MEAD CYCLES STAND THE TEST.
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS
Dunlop Tyres, Variable-Speed Gears, etc.
Models £3-10 to £9
Direct from factory, Packed Free, Carriage
Paul to your port. Ten Days’ Free 1 rial.
Motor Cycles and Cycle-Cars at Factory
Prices. Write for Free Art Catalogue,
and Marvellous Offers. Agents Wanted
CYCLE COMPANY,
(Dept. A 282 ), LIVERPOOL,
OV3IAI
.-uXftV3
AGENT for MEAD CYCLES—
VAL. D. COLE, Book Arcade, Melbourne.
LARGE STOCKS ON HAND. ALL MODELS
HIMROD'S
ASTHMA POWDER
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
No matter what your Respiratory
Organs may be suffering from—
whether Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough— you will
find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS.
Sold in Tins by all Cheti.ists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
EH
Eley Cartridges
ensure—as far
as any cartridge
can ensure -
first-rate sport
and gratifying Dags.
Among sportsman and sportswomen
throughout the world, the accuracy
of Eley Cartridges is proverbial.
Make a trial of any or all of these:
Eley ‘Achilles’
Deep ibell, gas-
tight, smokeless
(42-grain) powder.
Eley Pluto’
Grand Prix quality
cartridge, smokeless
(33-grain) nowder
Eley ‘Zenith’ —Deep-shell, gaslkht,
specially selected smokeless (33-gr.) po w<ler.
THESE ARE ALL ELEY LOADED.
Sold by Ammunition Dealers & Gunmakcrs
Be very sure to see the name ‘ELEY’
on the tube or shell of each cartridge.
ELEY BROS., LTD., LONDON, ENG.
•s
ill
m
JS
111
3D
111
IIiUTT
30
a
o
3S
m
ui
so
m
THE Australian Magazine—THE LiONK
1 HAND. The National Monthly. Price, 6<l,
BONNINGTON’S WILL ANSWER YES
£
.5
aonvinz
iglSH.'IP 55
Wh-?iC
'c:.-
in
Sold Everywhere.
I/O (SL 2/0.
to the question—is it the best ? Yes it is undoubtedly the
best Cough Remedy that skill and purest ingredients can
produce. This preparation has been curing Coughs
and Colds for upwards of 45 years, and although numer-
ous imitations have appeared from time to time none
have stood against "Bonn ingtonV' of 40 years fame.
BONNINCTOH’S
Irish Moss.
The ideal family medicine is equally
beneficial for Adults or Children.
Mothers can give it to the little ones
with every confidence as it is entirely
free from harmful narcotics.
Do not take imitations—just ask for “BONNINGTON’S” and
see that you get it.
*5
MC iof
IRISH
RUNKENNESS Cured.
Any lady can cure the most violent drunkard—secretly— at home. GOLDEN
SPECIFIC has no odor or taste, and can be taken by the tnost delicate person
of either sex. It total'y eradicates all craving for stimulants, creating a last-
ing antipathy to alcohol in a few weeks. Many cases are,cured in a few days
with this treatment. . . Send 2d. stamp for FREE SAMPLE 4nd full particulars.
THE GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO., DEPT. 4» MARKET STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
I Can Introduce
You to Hundreds
of Sufferers that
I Have Cured of
VARICOSE
VEINS!
MR. 'G. VECSEY.
IF YOU suffer from Varicose Veins or Ulcers, or both, I believe that I;
can completely cure you. I have treated hundreds of terrible cases;
with the utmost success, and I know that but very few cases are really j
incurable. Very few doctors tell you they can cure this trouble. They
prefer to ignore it. Doctors could not cure me. I cured myself. I then
cured my friends, and then made hundreds of new friends by curing people
who had suffered in some cases for a quarter of a century. Hence I believe
I can cure you. It will pay you well to fully investigate my method.
My treatment is applied at your own home, does not require you to lay up, and is painless and
harmless. The worst cases usually respond inside the first few weeks, and old, stubborn cases are
perfectly cured under a suitable course of treatment. Give me full details of your case. If I can
cure you I will say so, and send you a guarantee. If I cannot, I will at once advise you. You run
no risk. You can lose nothing if I should fail; but I have built up a large business —not on fail-
ures, but on successes, in cases formally given up as hopeless. LET ME SEND YOU SCORES OF
GRATEFUL TESTIMONIALS. WE GET DOZENS OF LETTERS LIKE THE FOLLOWING:—
Manager Vecsey Varix-arium, Wimmera St.. Stawell, Vic., May 5, 1913.
Hear Sirs, —Am sorry I have not been more punctual in my correspondence,
but Ido not need any more treatment. The ulcers are entirely healed, and the
veins are now normal, and totally free from aches or pain, and I can get about
again, for which I am very happy. I have told numbers of people of your
splendid treatment, and it certainly justifies the claims you make for ib.
When I began your treatment I was dreadfully crippled, and almost wholly
incapacitated, and I shall never fail to recommend the Vecsey Method whenever
I get an opportunity.—Yours gratefully, James Williams.
FREE ADVICE. FREE BOOK. FREE DIAGNOSIS.
I want you to learn all about my method. Send 2d. stamp for free book giving full particulars.
You simply cannot doubt the evidence I will give you as to the possibility of a cure.
Written Diagnosis or Consultation FREE. [1827
THE VECSEY VARIX-ARIUM, 3103 Ash St., SYDNEY
THE CAN-MAKING INDUSTRY!
SANITARY—SIMPLE-
EFFECTIVE—RAPID.
The Entire Top Open.
ant
00
ENTERPRISING PRESERVE OANNERS in every part of the worldj
*—'have come to realise that the old, slow, unsanitary method of
manufacturing and sealing cans by hand with poisonous solders is ob-
solete.
That is why the MAX AMS SANITARY CANNING MACHINERY
is being used by the world’s leading canners. If you are using cans
for packing preserves, fruits, vegetables, or in fact any food product, the
SANITARY, SOLDERLESS, HERMETICALLY SEALED CANS
made by these machines will save you time, money and labor.
No. 58 and No. 68 Automatic Double Seamers will seal can tops on
bodies ljin. high and 2in. in diameter up to 1 gallon and over. The
scope in the range of possible changes is instantly appreciated.
No adjusting or fussing, or mechanical skill required. Can be riin
by boy or girl.
These machines are BY NO MEANS confined to any PARTICULAR
CLASS of cans. The operation of these Seamers is SIMPLE. The
cans are automatically conveyed to the baseplate with the cover, and
INSTANTLY the CAN engages the rollers, making a CLEAN and tight
DOUBLE SEAM.
We Furnish Complete Outfit for Making These Cans.
For full particulars write to the
MAX AMS MACHINE CO.
MT. VERNON, NEW YORK, U.S.A.
OR THROUGH ANY EXPORT COMMISSION HOUSE.
Tobacco
Kills!
MOST MEN would
cure themselves of
the Tobacco Habit if
they knew they could
do so easily and also
without causing
themselves discom-
fort. ... It takes but
ten minutes for To-
bacco to change the
beats of the heart.
To keep it up is to
tempt death by heart
disease, nervous col-
lapse, tobacco cancer
and stomach, liver or
kidney disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harm-
less, vegetable remedy that will make the
user of tobacco in any form absolutely aban-
don the habit for good. It not destroys the
craving, the desire, the appetite for tobacco,
but restores to health the entire nervous sys-
tem, and aids Nature in entirely eliminating
from the system the Nicotine Poison of
Tobacco.
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you, under
sealed cover, a Free Sample, also our Book-
let, " The Tobacco Habit and its Consequen-
ces.” Write for particulars and Book to-day.
H. SINCLAIR OX CO.,
Dept. Q,
107 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY. [4.
“Coaguline,” “Klinx,” “Tenasitine,”
Cements for breakages, manufacturing purposes, etc.
FOR SORE BACKS
and Shoulders, Girthgalls, etc., there is
nothing quite so good as
Solomon
Solution
Large Jars 5/- Everywhere. Post Pree 5/6 from
SOLOMON COX & SON,
439 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
THE Australian Magazine—THE LO.NB
HAND. The National Monthly. Price. 6<J.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Down the Dim Years.
Clean running wave and sunward soaring
flower,
The great.hot sky, the colors of the wood
troubled with shadow, and the sudden
shower
Of heavenly fire across the solitude
Ut some green praying-place with steps of
stone
As sorrowfully white as winter moon,
thin, far calling of a trumpet blown
lo dead men hunting in the afternoon.
The pink-faced boy who kissed the crying
witch
Upon her wet, flat mouth, and wailing
went
Down into Hell. .. .while she, a snuffling
bitch
This way and that, bewrayed the tasselled
bent
Howling the pain of Doom.
The quiet Christ
Leading His children surely through the
dark
By the clear lantern of his wounds, to
tryst
W ith God, of men their refuge and their ark.
N.s.w.
HUGH McCRAE.
A Day-Dream.
Ono morn, where fresh sun-buds
Danced o’er the glad grass
And birds sang. I waited
For True-Love to pass.
The blue sky was smiling
With lips cool as wine;
I dreamed in half-slumber
That True-Love kissed mine!
In sweet lands of wonder,
Impatient; with fate,
I waited, I waited ;
But True-Love was late !
Night came with star-lanterns
And pitched her black tents
’Neath xhe-oak and gum tree....
How True-Love torments !
Stars peered through blue curtains,
Winds moaned, and soft dew
Closed tired eyes of sun-buds—
Sweet, True-Love’s, and blue.
The fairies came peeping
And rustling the grass ;
I thought that on tiptoe
’Twas True-Love did pass!
I dreamed till a shadow
Bowed down from the skies
And touched me....’twas lustrous
As True-Love’s sweet eyes.
Within, a white ladye,
Grief wreathed on her head.
Moaned. “Birds have ceased singing,
Sweet True-Love is dead !”
“The glad eyes of sunbuds
Shall open no more ;
The court that delighted
Queen True-Love is o’er!”
My heart was nigh bursting.
So heavy it weighed :
'Mid clover-spread grasses
Dead True-Love was laid.
I lay down beside her.
And weeping did crave:
“Death, kiss me and leave me
On True-Love’s fresh grave.”
Then Night struck her black tents.
Watch-lights died away.
Leaves stirred and I fancied
’Twas True-Love at play.
Dawn came with rose-banners,
Buds perfumed the air ;
The green grass wept softly.
For True-Love lay there !
At length came a shadow
’Twixt me and the skies....
I smiled in the love-light
Of True-Love’s sweet eyes!
Dav-dreams! they are nothing
Now True-Love is nigh!
But —oh, the world’s heart-ache
If True-Love should die !
N.S.W.
W. M. WHITNEY.
A Moral Toiler.
I love to wander round o’ days,
With joy I fairly boil
To see long lines of clanking drays
Removing yards of soil,
What time swart men of heft and garth
With crowbars, spades and picks
Are hitting good old mother earth
Most shrewd resounding licks.
To me the rip-saw’s honest voice—
The anvil’s merry ring—
Is sweeter than when birds, rejoice
With chirrupings of spring.
I thrill to hear steam sirens blare,
And ah ! what hymns of Trade
Resound from those brave fact’ries where
Tin canisters are made!
The gas men delving in the street —
Train fettlers juggling rails
Provide for me a daily treat,
Though it the thought entails
That I to watch must be content.
I’d join the bless&d band,
But, ah, the pick’s an instrument
I do not understand.
I am not of that brave array
Of men who handle tools,
But I can watch them day by day—
My zest for that ne’er cools.
And oft the thought occurs to me,
When home to rest I’ve gone,
That p’raps my moral sympathy
As ’twere, has cheered them on.
JNf.S.W.
NULLA.


THIS STYLE SPEAKS FOR. ITSELF.
THE “N€LL” Bcdroon) S(iit«
—A Suite that will
Last for a Lifetime.
Expertly made in well-seasoned wood, stained walnut and highly polished, and
well finished in every part.
In three pieces :
4ft. Wardrobe, bevelled mirror, carved panel, 1 long drawer.
3ft. Gin. Dressing, Chest, 2 long and 2 short drawers, bevelled mirror, bronze
fittings. , ,
3ft. Gin. Marble-top Washstand, tile back, cupboard, and towel rails.
Nothing Better can be Bought for this Price.
CATALOGUES AND PARTICULARS FREE.
Price £9 17s. 6d.
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
The Expert House Furnishers,
CENTRAL SQUARE, Opp. RAILWAY, SYDNEY.
Dinneford?
Magnesia
—— —— —— ■ in "f
tanu
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache.
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
X4Cel£a .
m %
nla -
The Accorcfeon with
THE MELLOW TONE
Is just perfection for Song Accompaniments, Dance Music
and Picnics. The Organ : liUe Tone of these Instruments
is attained by the use of Bell Metal Reeds, which are hand-
fitted and tuned.
THREE POPULAR MODELS.
THE ORGAN TONED MELBA
3 Sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 22/6, post free.
THE DANCE KING
4 Sets Bell Meta! Reeds, price 30/-. post free
THE PICNIC MODEL.
2 Sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 1 5/-, post free
OTHER MODELS FROM 7/6 TO 40/-
For Free Catalogue No. 9 write to—
• (1
276 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
and also at Bendigo and Geelong.
•o*
wt?
LAGER
tHf
CONNOISSEURS
'n
The Hose that will help keep
your garden in perfect order
Watershed
RED RUBBER GARDEN HOSE.
Guaranteed to be free from any fault
in manufacture that would cause it to
burst, split, peel, kink or perish. Made
in 60ft. coils.
i x 3-ply 9(1. ft.
} x 3-ply 1/. ft.
1 x 3-ply 1/5 ft.
Freight extra.
A Special Discount of id. per ft
allowed on all half or full coils.
Obtainable from all leading Store
keepers and Ironmongers, or direct from
the Manufacturers.
Perdriau Rubber C°- ta
270 George Street, Sydney.
Also Melbourne, Adelaide & Brisbane
SHI-NOLEUM
Nothing Else
When you ask your Storekeeper for a tin
of Shi-Noleum, be firm and take nothing
else, as you may be sure that an imitation is
not offered for your benefit.
Shi-Noleum has a fine
reputation as the best polish for
Linoleums and Furniture, it is so
easy to use that it enables the busy
housekeeper to do her work in
half the usual time.
Sold in every State in
the Commonwealth.
X'
o\\v<
ONTHEHOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred of "Hop’s” best drawings. Full
Bulletin size. Price, 21s.
Beauty’s Favourite.
The article which excels all others
in improving the beauty of tbe sßin
is naturally and deservedly beauty’s
favourite. Tbis bas been tbe
acknowledged and honoured
position beld by Pears* Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and bas
maintained tbat position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by tbe
possession of tbose special emollient
properties wbicb soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to tbe
skin. No other soap possesses
these qualities in such a pre-
eminent degree as
PEARS
Matchless for tHe Complexion.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Pose as a Newspaper.
Vol. 34.—N0. 1754.
THURSDAY,' SEPTEMBER 25, 1913.
Pxuce 6d.
THE SIDE-STEPPING OF JOE.
AUSTRALIA: “I want to know, Joe, what you propose doing with any recommendations for increased Protection that
may be made by the Inter-State Commission?”
JOE COOK: “I shall, of course, treat all classes alike, and submit any insignificant detail of that kind to my
esteemed friend here.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Mac-
Leod, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets,
Mosman, for The E'JLl.etin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214
George Street, Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: City 2389.
City 2390.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(Iu Advance, Only.)
Per Annum . . .. ..£l6O
Half-yearly .. .. .. 0 13 6
Quarterly .. . . . . .. 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty -
Six Shillings Sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
n o\v to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some
care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the form
of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short
Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Australian sub-
jects, and not exceeding two columns in length, or,
say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of
MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion cnly. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotcli, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —-The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., i\l Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. IF. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A. ; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co.. San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; IF. E. Lenehan, 585
29th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt.- —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
llong Ivong. —Brewer and Co., Redder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — IF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria. West Australia. Queensland, Tas-
mania and New Zealand; and on account of Messrs.
Atkinson and Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide—at
.'l/6 per doz. nett.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6|tn.
x IJ/in., and gelatine transparencies will be for-
warded on application. Larger metal plates can be
supplied if desired.
Postage Rates.
Single copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper):—Throughout the Commonwealth. New Zea-
land, Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
llowe Islands, 10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, IGoz., Id. Only one newspaper should be. en-
closed in each packet — otherwise: Boz., Id., Bioz.
to 10oz., 2id.; lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, ioz.,
Id., and id. each additioanl 2oz.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1913.
A LARGER OUTLOOK FOR NEW
SOUTH WALES.
On a certain recent day Allen Taylor, a
member of the N.S.W. Upper House, spoke
to that rather tired and aged institution
about the opening up of some of
N.S.W.’s neglected deep-water ports for
over-sea commerce. He was seized by the
simple, obvious idea that it is costly and
absurd to drag exports at great cost 300
miles by rail to a port, when there is a good
port 40 or 60 or 100 miles away, which
only wants a scrap of line and a wharf or
two to start it on the way to being a great
commercial centre. And the ex-Gaud Mayor
of Sydney had right and common sense and
justification behind him. He was even
threatened with brains. Presumably I RO-
vidence —which isn’t wholly an ass, what-
ever the Sydney Tory press may think about
if; —created such places as Port Stephens.
Jervis Bay and Twofold Bay for use, just
as much as it did Sydney harbor. Seeing
that the county which contains Sydney har-
bor —the place that has all the railway com-
munication that is going—has over 458
people to the square, mile (according to the
census of 1911), while the much more fer-
tile county which contains the equally good
harbor of Port Stephens has less than seven
people to the square mile, and considering
that there is no visible reason for the dis-
crepancy save that Sydney has denied Port
Stephens railway communication and other
facilities, it really seems that Sydney is
carrying the congestion policy too far. Also
it seems that it is carrying a great deal too
far the idea that Providence is an ass.
* * * *
Of course the proposition of Allen
Taylor, M.L.C., roused the Sydney Tory
press to excitement. The S. M. Herald
was angry. The Sydney Telegraph was
furious. The Evening News, which is the
last and final embodiment of the Congestion
tradition, was very mad indeed. Some ex-
tracts from the News’s complaint follow: —
The making of a port is an endless job, and though
perhaps three millions or so would “open” a couple
of harbors like Jervis Bay and Port Stephens, there
would be a heavy annual outlay chargeable to capi-
tal, and also a weighty running cost. Dredging,
lighting, depreciation, repairs, new public buildings
and a big salary list would have to be provided for,
and therefore it is fair and reasonable to ask the
supporters of the scheme that these projects would
pay.
It seems to be forgotten that decentralisation was
tried at Twofold Bay, Jervis Bay and Port Stephens
long ago, in the days when cargo, wool, tallow and
hides could be put aboard the old wooden ships and
sent direct to the Old Country. But to-day the task
is ten thousand times more difficult, because Sydney,
with its huge population, is such a market that it
can draw to itself all produce that seeks early sale.
It is possible to imagine that the new ports would
be useful for the export trade. But take wool for
instance. Does anyone suppose that wool-growers
will turn aside to Port Stephens or Jervis Bay when,
by trucking their bales a comparatively few miles
further, they would have the benefit of the vast
organisation of the Sydney wool market. The same
thing applies to most other products, but in a far
greater degree than to wool, for the population of
Sydney must be supplied, and the producer would
like the option of selling his goods either in the
local or the foreign markets. It is, therefore, in-
cumbent on the advocates of decentralisation to give
some proof of the amount of business that these new
ports would do. And that business, it must be
observed, should carry its share of the cost of the
facilities which would be needed to deal with it.
The fallacy underlying much of the arguments ad-
vanced in favor of decentralisation is that a shorter
line of railway must necessarily mean cheaper
freights.
And much more to the same effect.
**■ * *
The Tory papers, whose main interests
lie in Sydney, hate the idea of a penn’orth
of trade going anywhere except to their own
doorsteps. So they set up the theory that a
big commercial and manufacturing city is
a dead loss to the community—at least,
such a city on Sydney harbor is a great
profit, but a similar city on Port Stephens
or .Tervis Bay or Twofold Bay would neces-
sarily be a great deficit and a bad debt. In
fact, there would be no cities at these places,
for railway facilities and wharves and deep
water and plenty of building space don’t
make cities. The one thing that makes a
city, so far as N.S.W. is concerned, is the
fact of it being Sydney. Therefore the
News asks wildly if people would dream of
sending their wool to Port Stephens or
.Tervis Bay when Sydney was at hand, being
quite unable to realise that new Sydneys
would arise, to the vast profit of N.S.W.,
if the chance was permitted them. Yet
almost in the same breath it admits that in
the days when chances were equal, places
like Port Stephens, Jervis Bay and Two-
fold Bay were useful for oversea commerce.
That was in the time of small ships and
road traffic. Then ocean-going vessels
traded to and from the now-deceased ports
of the Ma State, and these outlets held their
own. Any port with a road and a wharf was as
good as any other port. But when road-
haulage was superseded by railway haulage,
and Sydney was the only place to which
railway haulage was permitted, the other
places naturally died. If Port Stephens or
Jervis Bay had got the exclusive railway
advantages, then Sydney would have died
instead.
As matters stand, the county of
Cumberland, with its outlet at Sydney har-
bor, and abundant railway communication
therewith, has over 458 people to the square
mile. If the county of St. Vincent had
equally good railway communication with
the equally serviceable harbor of Jervis Bay
it might have 458 people to the square mile,
whereas now it has less than five. If the
county of Gloucester had similar railway
facilities for trading with the similarly good
harbor of Port Stephens it might have 458
people to the square mile, but at present it
has less than seven. If the county of Auck-
land had the same railway facilities for
dealing through Twofold Bay as Cumber-
land has for dealing through Sydney, it
might have 458 people to the square mile,
but unfortunately it has less than six. In
two of these three counties the population
is decreasing. Their harbors are shut up
for lack of railway connections, these con-
nections being denied to them through the
miserable jealousy of Sydney, and so far
as commerce goes they might as well be in
the middle of Africa. Therefore there are
hardly any people alongside three of the
best outlets in the State to do business with
Sydney. There is hardly anybody in these
three counties to buy the Evening News,
or to advertise in it for a lost dog, and the
News doesn’t seem able to understand what
a chance it is missing. If the information
went out to the world that three new Syd-
neys were starting, with just as good pros-
pects as the old original Sydney possessed,
a million British emigrants, all quite as
good as the old lot, could be got to fill them.
And then the doddering Evening News
might start three new offices, and three new
papers, and make a stupendous fortune, and
be a worse public disaster than it is now. On
the other hand, it might acquire a larger out-
look and get something dimly resembling a
mind. The things it is most in want of are
an outlook and a mind.
A FEW REMARKS ON GOATS, ASSES
AND THE DEAD HAND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Ministry had effected one act of restoration—-
it had restored, with all its signs and portents, the
mace, that sign and portent of the Government of
ancient days, the Government of the fourteenth cen-
tury. (Laughter.)— Anstey, M.H.R.
I don’t mind kings and dukes and things;
T don’t mind wigs or maces j
I don’t mind crowns or robes or gowns
Or ruffles, swords or laces —
But what I do object to, and some others
more than I,
Are the mad old, bad old practices these
baubles signify.
Good friends, brother Australians and fel-
low voters;
I think that you will agree with me that
few of us are doters
Upon the customs, practices, fooleries and
tommyrotics of the mouldy past;
Nor are we apt to cast
A reverent eye behindward upon ancient
precedent;
Nor do we consent
To let the cold, clammy and usually mud-
dling Dead Hand
Control the destinies of this our native land.
Nay, rather do we stand
Tiptoe upon the summit of the Present,
peering out,
With faces eager and expectant eyes, into
the mystic Future. Have you a doubt
That in Progress, Business-like Procedure,
Common-sense Habit, and Up-to-Date
Method we are all earnest believers?
Is it not so?. . ..
Well, I don’t know
So much about it. ’Twere easy to prove,
good friends, that we are, in the lump,
followers of Make-Believe, triflers with
; Humbug and inane self-deceivers.
’Twere easy to prove that our ass-like at-
r tribute indeed surpasses
That of innumerable and intensely asinine
asses.
And here, good friends, I extend to all of
you my blessin’,
And conclude, amidst great applause, the
first lesson.
Secondly, my brothers, —
Right-thinking persons, men-in-the-street,
common-sense individuals, and people
who call a spade a spade, and others —
There are full many of us who deeply de-
plore
The use or display of those gauds, decora-
tions, baubles and trappings that be-
long to the unpractical, superstitious
and quite unfashionable days of yore.
We deride, for instance, the notion that
the caudal appendage of a deceased
horse
Perched upon the cranium of an erudite
justice can add to his dignity or give
to his remarks more force.
In short, we class as mere bunkum, bosh,
flapdoodle and other sludge
The contention that the hind end of a horse
can in any way assist the fore end of a
judge.
The wig, the gown, the staff, the rod. the
mace.
We regard as obsolete and entirely out of
place.
If there is one thing more than another upon
which we pride ourselves it is, I sup-
pose,
The fact that we scorn to wear grandpa’s
old-fashioned clothes.
The poor old gentleman’s pantaloons, his
shirts, his cravat, his fob-chain, his
frill-whiskers are all anathema to us.
Good friends, why all this fuss?
Why waste all this precious energy in de-
nouncing the wig, the gown, the mace?
They may be, in a sense out of place ;
Yet, why should these things shock you?
Believe me, they are perfectly innocu-
Ous, and furthermore, friends,
They serve their ends ;
For why deny these toys
To that large, mentally-bogged, and much
misunderstood class of elderly girls and
boys
Whose state demands some sign or symbol
To push an idea or a principle into their
heads, even as the thimble
Thrusts the needle into the cloth?
Then why so wrath?
Heed ye, good friends, the parable of the
beam and the mote.
Nay, I crave your pardon, but I have known
a not particularly intelligent goat
To view materially essential matters with a
more discerning eye; to possess, so to
speak, more innate perspicacity
Than you—that is to say, us. Nay, gasp
not at the seeming audacity
Of these few remarks ; for perfect perspicu-
ity
.Attends them, and I like not ambiguity.
As thinking machines the ass, the goat, good
people, are preferable; at least, so it
appears.
And here, the ending of my second lesson is
attended by your deafening and appre-
ciative cheers.
My worthy friends, ye who scorn to wear
poor grandpa’s clothes,
Get down from your pedestals, O ye modern
intellectual giants ; let each decline his
scornful and uptilted nose.
Deride, would ye, grandpa’s ancient mace?
Abolish it, would ye, and hunt it off the
place ?
What’s the matter with it? It’s not eating
anything, is it?
And it might prove handy if a masked bur-
glar, or a Trust or a mad dog paid the
House a visit.
Gird, would ye, at grandpa’s wig, at his
gown trimmed with the overcoats of
late lamented rabbits?
But, Oh ! my up-to-date brothers, what have
ye to say about grandpa’s and great-
grandpa’s and great-great-grandpa’s
ridiculous customs, absurd precedents,
inane systems and obsolete habits?
What about that musty, dusty, mouldy, mil-
dewed, hoary, Tory, injurious, time-
wasting, insane, inane, self-ridiculed,
unwieldy and utterly unprofitable sys-
tem of Party Government? Great-
great-great-great-grandpa’s cherished
System, good friends!
Does it serve our modern ends?
Or is it, think you, obsolete and absurd?
I pause for a reply. . . .What! Not a word?
Do -I hear you raving to have it abolished?
Yearn ye to see this thing demolished?
Go to the ass, ye dullards ! tie doesn’t eat
mouldy sawdust when there’s good hay
about.
And here, kind friends, I pass to “fourthly,”
flattered by your encouraging shout.
Friends, countrymen and fellow-voters of
this fair land,
All ye smart, up-to-date people who scorn
dear grandpa’s raiment, are you feeling
his dead hand?
Think ye that ancient fist should interfere
so in the vital affairs of to-day?
Or are ye so apathetic that you don’t care
a tuppenny curse either way?
’Tis cheap and easy to scoff at grandpa’s
gauds and trappings and to the Devil
send ’em ;
But have ye ever seriously considered such
things as elected Ministries or the
Initiative and Referendum?
Not you! -You shirk, good friend, you shirk
That means Work!
Friends, I am done. . . .1 know not what yr
intend to do about it, and I haven’t
much hope ; but, for my part,
I say unto ye, in a spirit of true brotherly
love, and with my hand upon my heart
That I have enjoyed the acquaintance of
asses who were never fooled by musty
precedent. Aye, and intelligent
Who scorned the jam-tin diet of their fore-
bears when there was good grass about
- —but then had no votes.
And what is a goat without a vote?
VICTORIA.
DEN.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Liberalism, Loyalty and the Beef
Trust.
According to a cable which was published
(10/9/’l3) by the Sydney Telegraph:—
In the House of Commons, the Colonial Secretary
has intimated that he would ask the Federal Gov-
ernment for information regarding the alleged inten-
tion of American firms to make a monopoly of the
meat supply from Australasia to the United King-
dom.
The Bulletin first drew attention to the
designs of the American Beef Trust (which
is to say the firms of Swift & Co., Armour
& Co., Cudahy & Co., and Morris & Co.)
upon the Australasian meat trade about
two years ago. There were shrieks of de-
rision from the ranks of Toryism. This
paper has reiterated at intervals ever since
the view that the Beef Trust was out to
corner the local meat trade, just as it has
cornered the trade of Argentina. Liberalism
remained unconvinced; or at any rate it
said it was unconvinced. Its rallying-cry
during both Referenda campaigns was that
there were no objectionable trusts in Aus-
tralia. Platform allusions to the “Trust
bogey” were always sure of a cheer and
much laughter in any well-conducted
church-going suburb in those days. Little
by little the conviction grew in the public
mind that there was something fallacious
about the No-Trust gag, just as the con-
viction had already grown that the Anti-
Defence cry was all wrong. Cable after
cable came from London telling of shrink-
ages in the world’s meat supplies (or the
supplies made available by the Beef Trust),
and of the perturbation of thinking British
people at the position. As a matter of fact,
a realisation of the situation didn’t call for
much capacity for thought. Britain pro-
duces very little meat, and its inhabitants
are habitual meat-eaters —that is to say,
the inhabitants who can afford it are. For
the imported meat supply of the nation to
come under the control of a United States
combine would be an unspeakable calam-
itv. That calamity has now come
very near. In a footnote to one of its
cables, a week or so ago, the Sydney Tele-
graph, which used to be the loudest asseve-
rator of the yarn that there was no such
thing as an injurious trust in Australia,
had the following to say :
There appears to be no question about the accu-
racy of the oft-repeated statement that the American
Beef Trust has secured control of the major propor-
tion of the world’s meat supplies. The Argentine
and Australian meat exports alone seem to show in-
creases, when compared with the figures for pre-
vious years. Certainly the Argentine and Austra-
lasia are the two centres of supply which have not
yet passed directly under the entire control of the
Meat Trust. On the other hand, the Trust has im-
mense interests in Argentina, and is admitted to
have acquired important interests in Queensland.
Liberalism claims to be, politically, the
“loyal” section of the Commonwealth. It
is great on the inexpensive ceremony of
saluting the flag. It does not mind how
much cheap energy it expends while singing
the National Anthem. Strictly economical
demonstrations of devotion to the Mother
Land, such as refusing to sit on the same
bench as a J.P. who has mentioned that it
is possible for a British King to
be a fool, are a matter of habit
with members of this party. An
opportunity of offering the Mother Country
something more than service by means of
mummery now presents itself; and it will
be interesting to see how Australia’s alleged
loyalists rise to the occasion. The Beef
Trust can never be collared so long as
Queensland —where, as the Telegraph
mentions, the Trust has “acquired im-
portant interests”—or any other State re-
tains such complete control over its internal
trade and commerce as to be able to bid
defiance to Federal anti-Trust legislation.
The objection to so amending the Constitu-
tion as to give the Australian Parliament
power to pass an effective anti-Trust Act
lies, so far as Liberalism is concerned, in
the fact that any such change will amount
to an interference with State Rights. The
problem that obtrudes itself therefore is:
Is the doctrine of State Rights or the right
of the United Kingdom to avoid being black-
mailed in connection with an important
article of diet, the more important? The
handling of it will constitute a more prac-
tical test of genuine loyalty than the cele-
bration >f a whole aeon of Empire Days.
Sydney’s Small-pox.
From a person who should know, with a
new argument in favor of compulsory vac-
cination to wind up with: —
“Good morning, Mrs. Giles,” says. Sister. “By
the way, how long have you been here?”
“Goin’ on three weeks, me dear,” mumbles
Granny, who usually leaks into the landscape when
any doctor or charge-nurse appears.
“'Three weeks! Why, its nine weeks on Mon-
day,” announces Sister, looking up from her note-
book. “Come up for inspection to-morrow.”
Granny swears into her knitting, and says what
she thinks of hussies who interfere.
Many merely walk through the hospital enclosure
on their way to the convalescent area. And yet
they are kept six and seven and more weeks in
quarantine, for no better reason than that they have
a little roughened skin about the legs and fore-
arms. In dozens of cases this roughness has been
caused by the use of hard, cold water or by tn
piercing winds that frequently scarify the More
Head station. . ~
The food provided is of the best, and lavisn
abunclant. To those of us who have been in conta
with small-pox in other ports it is amazing to n
meat eaten at every meal, accompanied by u -
limited pickles and condiments. Acne and h Oli L. .
looked upon as complications of this epidemic, vve ,
under ordinary healthy skin-conditions, P) CK •
cheese and pastry consumed galore are conducive
eruptions. , j
The sleeping accommodation is clean hut crow •
Patients and contacts occupy the same beds, <
there are no separate quarters for chicken-pox.
doctor who discharges the patients is most ca


Extraordinary Announcement to Agents.
Christmas Edition of
The Bulletin, 1913.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE that the
CHRISTMAS NUMBER of “THE
BULLETIN” will be an EXTRA
and SPECIAL ISSUE.
Date of Publication: December 13, 1913.
This SPECIAL NUMBER will con-
tain high-class Stories, Verse and other
Literary Contributions front foremost
Australasian writers.
The Illustrations will be supplied by
the popular Bulletin artists, and
others in the front rank of the artistic
world.
The Ordinary Issue of THE BULLETIN
wilt be published on the usual date.
Agents are requested to note
that, as the Christmas Number of
“The Bulletin” is now going to
press, the orders that reach us from
now on will be treated in order of
priority.
that they have neither spots nor flecks of skin ; vet,
o far I have not heard of any examination of
heads ’which in many cases are loaded with dand-
ruff and small scabs, and—and other things.
1 sphere j s a humorous side, too. One historic case
is that of a man, one of the undesirables, who, after
evading the doctor for several weeks, at last was
dragged up for inspection. He got 12 days added
to his loafing-lease by producing what was after-
wards alleged to be a mosquito bite, slightly
scratched.
In the matter of contacts one wonders exceedingly.
Mothers with the disease are sent in accompanied
hv three and four children as contacts, many of
these children being quite old enough to be left
with friends or relations, as they would be if their
parent were in general hospital. The husbands are
let loose on the public.
The social aspect has been considerably improved,
though, as one of the police pungently remarked:
«\Ve will never get Respectability till all the
women are at one end of the place and the men at
the other.” The single girls are housed in Lyne’s
Building, which is strictly out of bounds to the men.
As to fumigation, cases inspected and passed for
discharge are rushed off by the first launch leaving,
which gives very little time for a medicated bath
and the fumigation of personal gear. The bath is,
in fact, frequently evaded.
One hears that the plague outbreak cost £140,000
in actual cash. This small-pox epidemic, at the
present pace, will run into much more. The cost of
maintenance per head is so tremendous as to be in
fact scandalous. The treatment of pustules with oil
and ointments and the rubbing-off of roughened skin
with pumice-stone is left to the convalescent patients
themselves. If they really want to get away thev
work at their spots. But there are scores who don’t
want to get away. By complete and daily medical
supervision, the average length of the quarantining
might be reduced from a good many weeks to 21
scarlet fever, or tvphoid, or any other con-
tagious disease that any of us may chance to con-
tract. small-pox can be reduced to a name bv pre-
ventive vaccination. If people contract the di=ea«e,
the State is in duty bound to segregate them. Under
the most careful management, that means expense:
under management that isn’t as careful as it should
he it means tremendous expense. This is where the
State comes in. It must pay the piper. Then surelv
it has the right to call the tune. And the first note
in that tune is, of course, Vaccination.
--
An Anti-Decentralisation Witness Who
Fails Painfully to Carry Conviction.
The chilly nerve with which a partisan
newspaper is capable of pulling the legs of
its readers beats that “two o’clock in the
morning courage,” which Wellington ac-
claimed, right out of sight. The latest
example is afforded by the Sydney Tele-
gkapii’s handling of Allen Taylor’s decen-
tralisation proposals in the N. S. Wales
Legislative Council. Allen Taylor took
the point that Port Stephens, Jervis Bay and
similar great natural harbors should be
opened up to trade. Sydney and Newcastle
were both equally scandalised at a scheme
which would deprive them of business, how-
ever much it benefited the State at large.
The Telegraph was concerned to show that
opposition to Taylor’s proposal was in no
wise biased; that local interests were not
involved in the matter; that all men of
intelligence were ranged against it, even
though it might mean profit to them indi-
vidually. And this was the best that the
deceptive sheet could do :
Touching upon that portion of the scheme which
concerns the conversion of Port Stephens into a
serviceable port, Mr. Earp, although he represents
large coal-mining and railroad interests on the South
Maitland coalfields, declared that the project would
be nothing more than a “wicked and wanton waste
—decentralisation run mad.”
One would think, to read that, that Mr.
Earp was some splendidly altruistic patriot
who, reckless of his “large coal mining and
railroad interests on the South Maitland
coalfields,” had thrust aside the question of
personal aggrandisement and come out with
a clarion shout —not to say a howl —on be-
half of the public weal. Wha.t are the
facts? George Earp, M.L.C., is a New-
castle storekeeper of sorts. He is also a
Newcastle property owner. Practically all
his interests are in Newcastle. The Greta
mine, in which he is a shareholder, will not
be affected much one way or the other, by
the opening up of Port Stephens. _ But his
Newcastle interests —his store, his house
property and so forth —stand to be smitten
most violently by any Government action
tending to create a new city on the shores
of the magnificent, though at present com-
mercially dead, Northern port. A cold, grey
truth, which is known to most Australians
of intelligence to-day is that Newcastle,
regarded as a modern port, has no real right
to live. It is a bar-harbor, and a bar-harbor, in
this epoch of big ships, is an anomaly. And,
more than that, it is an exceptionally rotten
bar-harbor; a ridiculously false-alarm
haven of refuge, where ships were unable to
refuge only last winter, on account of the
wind blowing the wrong way, or the tide
being unfavorable, or the channel having
fallen down the coal hole, or something
similar. Far be it from this kindly and
unsuspicious family journal to suggest that
Mr. Earp was speaking in a disingenuous
spirit when he proclaimed, last week, that
the conversion of Port Stephens into a ser-
viceable port would represent “decentralisa-
tion run mad.” Still less would it dream of
asserting that his personal interests in any
way colored his views on the matter. How-
ever, the fact remains that he is an unsatis-
factory witness on the question of decen-
tralisation —just as a bookmaker would be
a poor witness on a question involving the
extirpation of racing, and as a parson would
be the same sort of witness on the issue ol
whether or no religion should be utterly
abolished. The newspaper that calls a man
situated as Mr. Earp is to show that 1 ort
Stephens ought to be allowed to remain m
its aboriginal state of deadness, is capable
of calling a professional politician to give
an impartial expression of opinion on the
advisability of abolishing payment ot mem-
bers, Works Committee billets, and free rail-
way passes.
Where the Landlord Conies In.
In a report just issued, Statistician
Knibbs heaved another clod at the already
bruised and disorganised Fat Party which
claims that, notwithstanding the increase in
wages, the worker is no better off than he
was when he had to toil for ss. a day or
thereabouts. Knibbs’s report summarises
mean rents, wages and purchasing P ( >y pr
of the sovereign, as far as concerns Mei-
bourne, in this fashion :
Rent.—A householder paving £5O a year in 1911
paid £37 16s. in 1901 and £52 7s. in 1912 — in-
crease, 1,0 per cent. .
Purchasing power of £1. —-That which cost 1/s. 3u.
in 1901 cost 18s. lOd. in 1911 and 20s. lid. in
1912— increase in cost of goods generally, 21 per
cent.
Groceries and Food. —That which cost £5l 12s.
in 1901 cost £57 16s. in 1911 and £5B 10s. in
1912 —increase in cost of food articlts, V, per cent.
Those figures look unpleasant, not to say
alarming, but Mr. Knibbs reassures the
citizens:—
Average wage-earner’s income in 1901: £202 ;
in 1912, £263 10s.
Put iu another way, for each 20s. lid. the
wage-earner gets now, he got only 16s. in
1* For the things that now cost him
-Us. lid. he then had to pay 17s. 3d.; so he
is nearly Is. 3d. in the £1 better off. And,
as the Savings Bank figures prove, the aver-
age householder is doing precisely what the
I at Man told him he ought to do, and is
thriftily banking most of the 15 pence he
is to the good. But there is one other point.
Whereas the cost of food stuffs has increased
by 14 per cent., and of goods generally by
-1 per cent., and notwithstanding that the
average wage-earner receives 31 per cent,
more and is on the whole 8 per cent, better
off, the landlord is advantaged no less than
40 per cent. —the landlord who takes no
more risk and does no harder toil than be-
fore. And while the cold, statistical report
nroves him the colossal cormorant of the
whole bunch, nobody makes half so much
noise about the “rapacity” and “greed” and
“unreasonableness” of the working-man—
the working-man who, for all his wages
boards and strikes, has still managed to
collar 8 per cent, less than the horrified
cormorant has got away with himself.
Concernins a Measure that has been
Badly Needed for Fourteen Years.
It was announced the other day that —
At the conference of the delegates from the various
Chambers of Commerce of Australia a resolution with
reference to uniform company law was adopted.
And so the futile old business of ploughing
the commercial sands, and pulling the collec-
tive leg of trade, and wasting the valuable
time and money of the community goes on.
It is an anomalous circumstance that the
Australian Parliament, which can take steps
to prevent the community from being infected
with small-pox, has no power whatever to
nrotect it from the ravages of the fraudulent
company promoter. Commercial delegates
may meet and blither and pass resolutions,
and politicians may make the usual glozing
promises, but the fact remains that as long
as the Australian Parliament lacks the power
to interfere with the internal trade and com-
merce of individual States it can no more
present the Commonwealth with a uniform
comnany law than it can provide the New
Protection or a valid Trade Marks Act. And
this is a reform that Australia needs very
badly indeed. It is not alone the prominent
members of the business community who are
suffering from the lack of a stringent
measure that will insist on the same proce-
dure as regards, for example, company-pro-
moting in every State; its absence renders
every unit of the population liable to finan-
cial loss. The most clamant example of the lot
is N. S. Wales —-the State which turned down
the Referenda proposals by the largest
majority. N. S. Wales has one of the laxest
set of company laws on record. They could
not be more favorable to commercial fraud
had they been drafted by habitual robbers
of the widow and orphan. As a natural re-
sult, the Mother State has for years been the
pleasaunce of bogus company promoters.
Hardly a week passes without the wooden-
headed N.S.W. investor being hit full in the
midriff: by some astute swindler or other.
Owing to the fact that there is no obligation
on the promoters of a N. S. Wales company
to set out in their prospectus a detailed and
accurate account of the position, the most
astonishing ramps are possible. The writer
knows of a case, for example, where a syn-
dicate bought a quantity of land, allegedly
suitable for residential purposes, at £5 per
acre. It immediately sold the property to
another syndicate for £5O an acre. That
syndicate re-sold at £5OO an acre; and the
last syndicate lumbered it on to the suffering
public at £lOOO an acre. Nothing during all
this time had occurred to make the property
worth a farthing more than the £5. per acre
for which its owner had been delighted to
let it go in the first instance. The public
which bought at £lOOO per acre were not in-
formed by the promoters that the price, not
long since, had been £5 per acre. Nor was
it disclosed that the allegedly different syndi-
cates were in reality the same old syndicate,
to a great extent; and that though cheques
for impressive sums had passed between the
parties, the fatal formality of clearing the
documents had not been gone through. The
same sort of thing is occurring every day in
connection with mining, commercial and a
host of other promotions. It needs no demon-
stration that a change is called for. One
way in which some measure of reform might
be achieved would be by the States coming
together and agreeing to pass simultaneously
six Company Acts in line (say) with the
Victorian one, which is fairly satisfactory in
most respects. But the experience of years
goes to show that the States never will do
this. The only really effective change will
be made when the Australian Parliament is
enabled to pass one Company Act for the
whole of Australia. The worlds model, in
this line, is the English Company Act of
1900 It was a powerful measure when it
was first framed. It has been amended three
times since then, with the effect always of
making the path of the commercial brigand
and spieler more and more unprofitable and
perilous. The introduction of such an Act
to the Commonwealth would save the class
of investor who most needs protection un-
numbered thousands a year. It is a point
that the electors, and more especially the
N. S. Wales electors, should bear in mind
next time they are called on to vote on a
constitutional amendment issue.
In Camera.
The recent Privy Council decision, that no
divorce cases can be legally tried in a pri-
vate and confidential manner will con-
firm a good many people in their opinion
that the law is a hass. .On the face ot the
matter there is no necessity why any divorce
suits should be heard in nublic, and cer-
tainly there is no reason why all spicy evi-
dence should not bo kept out ot the news-
papers bv order of the Court. Divorce cases
have only a scandalous interest for the
world at iarge. No question of public policy
is involved in the publication or suppression
of what the chief witness for the petitioner
saw when he, or she, peeped thiough the
keyhole A jury—with a Judge to order a
new trial if the verdict looks dishonest-
should be as good a guarantee of a fair trial
of the respondent and co-re. as the world can
desire When the divorce suit is a friendly
one, and both parties want a quiet hearing
by a Judge only, where is the objection to a
divorce being as private as a marriage is
permitted to be? The world accepts an
allegation of Mrs. Brown’s marriage on the
strength of an advt. or weaker evidence than
that, and would put as much faith in the
advt. of her divorce, published among Law
Notices for the month. As regards how
many times she went week-ending with
Lothario Jones the world had better be
kept in ignorance. People talk too much
about other people’s domestic concerns as it
is. The respectable Law, as far as one can
see at a glance, has no reason for hanging
the whited sepulchre of any non-criminal
person on a telegraph wire for daws to peck
at. (All letters commenting on the mixed
character of this metaphor will be firmly
dropped in the waste-paper basket.) The
publicity given to divorce is no preventive
of misconduct, but it tends to deter the
wronged party—especially when the
aggrieved person is a woman —from apply-
ing for the dissolution of an unhappy mar-
riage. It is the innocent sufferer who in
many cases shrinks from the open scandal
of a divorce suit. Where there is no mis-
demeanor to be exposed, but merely a
married couple’s secret to be disclosed —as
in the case of Mrs. John Buskin’s divorce
—the Law hitherto has considered the feel-
ings of both parties. The Privy Council’s
decision would make the Law an inconsider-
ate brute.
Britain’s Poverty.
Dear Bulletin, —J. Ellis Barker, in the
August Fortnightly, discusses Britain’s
poverty and its causes. He boldly disputes
the assertion that Britain is the richest
country in the world. About last June the
British Board of Trade issued the report of
its first “Census of Production for 1907,”
and a little later appeared the United States
“Census of Production for 1909.” The writer
remarks bn the tables given in these two
reports:—
Careful consideration of the tables given shows
that, measured by value, the American industries
produce, as a rule, not a little less than twice as
much, but from three times to five times as much
as does this country. . . .If we now compare the num-
ber of wage-earners occupied in the industries of the
two countries which have been enumerated in the
tables, we find that the U.S. industries produce from
three to five times as much as the corresponding
British industries, although the number of their
workers is only slightly larger, and is sometimes
smaller than the number of the workers employed
in this country. For instance, in the United King-
dom 3865 workers produce £862,000 worth of
matches, while in the United States 3631 workers
produce £2,270,600 worth of matches.
The individual worker produces £223 worth
of matches on an average in Britain, and
£625 worth in the States. On the same
basis of calculation, the individual worker
in Britain makes £l7l worth of boots and
shoes: in the U.S. he makes £516 worth.
There is no secret about the cause of the
advantage the worker in the U.S. has over
the one in Britain. It is in the use of labor-
saving machinery. In Britain the boot and
shoe industry uses 172 horse-power of
machinery per 1000 workers, but in the U.S.
1000 workers use 486 horse-power. The re-
sult is that while the British worker pro-
duces only 9s. 6d. worth of goods a day, the
man in the U.S. produces 295. 6d. worth :
The wealth of a nation and of the individuals of
which it is composed depends on its yearly income,
and its yearly income depends upon its yearly pro-
duction. Owing to its industrial inefficiency the
yearly income of Great Britain is far lower than
that of the U.S., and it is probably considerably
lower than that of Germany.
In the British Census of Production the
entire annual income of Great Britain is
estimated at £2.000,000,000; while the UIS.
Census of Production gives the income of
the U.S. from the production of commodities
alone at £6,209,380,000 a year; and its whole
income should exceed £8,000,000,000 a year.
Compared with these figures the estimated
return of £100,000,000 that Britain is esti-
mated to get yearly from its foreign invest-
ments, and the probable profit of some
£60,000,000 from its mercantile marine are
the merest trifle. Although the population
of the U.S. is only twice that of Britain its
income is four times as great. There is
economy in high wages, as the U.S. have
found. Their manufactures have been forced
to instal costly labor-saving machinery to
increase production. But this is Ellis
Barker’s account of what happened in
Britain: —•
In the first half of the nineteenth century some
economic theorists and some short-sighted business
men succeeded in persuading the British nation that
a high cost of production and high wages were a
disadvantage and' danger to the country. Owing to
their agitation Freetrade was introduced. Free
corn was to keep the cost of living low, and the
free importation of manufactures was to level Bri-
tish wages down automatically to the level of wages
prevailing in the competing countries. Necessity is
the mother of invention. When, through the intro-
duction of Freetrade, the stimulus to mechanical im-
provement had been seriously weakened, and when
British labor had become relatively cheap, British
manufacturers were no longer compelled to provide
the most efficient labor-saving machinery in order
to maintain their position.
Apparently civilised and manufacturing man
has two alternatives. Lie may be a power-
ful animal who makes things by sheer force.
Or he may be a mind who invents the
machine which makes things, and orders the
machine to start by blowing a whistle. Ellis
Barker’s theory is that the Briton has been,
of late years, as compared with his two lead-
ing competitors, overmuch of the mere mor-
tal who makes things by hand, and not
enough of the god who blows the whistle. —
Yours truly, The Old Soldier.
♦
The Blessedness of Party.
Party Government tactics make the Aus-
tralian Parliament a scene of disorder these
days. If the Cook Government, by strenu-
ously keeping Spruce Myth up to the
mark, and by the aid of the Speaker’s cast-
ing vote, can get through the Representa-
tives some measure which the huge Labor
majority in the Senate is bound to throw
out, then it may get a start on the road
towards a dissolution of both Houses —a
thing that has never happened since the
Conftmonwealth was founded. A new elec-
tion for both Houses could hardly make the
Cook Government’s position worse, and it
might become better. So the object of the
Opposition is to prevent any Government
measure getting through the Reps., to estab-
lish the deadlock that Cook is aiming at.
Therefore the Opposition makes strange,
sad noises when the Prime Minister tries to
do something with a Bill —noises like the
long wash of the eternal sea on a rocky
shore, or like a cow looking at a green land-
scape, or ham being boiled in the next
county. The party that is now nominally
in power thought any kind of obstruction
perfectly legitimate in the days of McMil-
lan and Reid and Pumpkin Smith, when
the interminable Freetrade stonewall was
driving Kingston, the best Australian of
them all, into a premature grave, and mak-
ing good old George Turner a physical
wreck. Now Cook is hurried to frenzy by a
small sample of his own crowd’s old tactics.
He is a man with a brief temper and a jumpy
disposition and a peck of nerves. If he
went straight on with his speech, whether
he was audible or not, he might arrive
somewhere, but when lie turns aside to bark
at every person who interrupts, he becomes
a sort of aggravated dog kennel or mad-
dened political hound. In the end he re-
fuses to speak any more, and gives a sort
of howl, and sits down. There is a great
future, in the Party Government system,
for a leader who will take no notice of in-
terjections, and who will drill his followers
into doing the same. The supreme Party
leader would assume that the other party
was dead and would act accordingly. And
he would have a very high precedent to go
upon. The Almighty takes no notice of
interjections.
The Australian Natives’ Association has
propounded an idea that some arrangement
should be made for the acquisition of New
Caledonia from France, so that it may be-
come a dependency of the Commonwealth.
It seems an unwise and earth-hungry pro-
position. The great day of trouble in Aus-
tralia is likely to be the day when some big
Asiatic Power tries its hand at annexation.
Conquest by France, Germany or Holland
might not be pleasant, yet at the worst it
would be merely a transfer from one high-
class European civilisation to another. Eng-
land was conquered by Germans, by Scandi-
navians, by Frenchmen and by Dutchmen,
and it continued to progress. But Asiatic
conquest means the sort of experience that
Russia had with the Tartars and Greece
with the Turks. In other words, it means
Sheol. One of Australia’s streaks of good
luck is that the Germans in Papua, the
Dutch in Java, the Yankees in the Philip-
pines, and the French in New r Caledonia
stand to some extent between this country
and the probable source of disaster. The
Germans, French and Dutch don’t own very
much land that would be of value to Aus-
tralia, but they represent a heap of national
pride and a tremendous fighting capacity.
The idea of persuading any of these races,
ouf of mere vanity and earth-hunger, to give
up its present position as a bulwark be-
tween us and Asia looks an ill-advised pro-
ceeding—this century anyhow.
♦
“Hamer” : The Sydney undertaking combine
has had a horrible effect on the business of
the small suburban planter. His profits were
nothing much, even when his patron saint,
Death, worked hardest on his behalf. Under
the new arrangement they are smaller than
ever. In the good old pre-combine days the
petty buryer was able to endure a prolonged
period of abnormally good public health with
a certain amount of fortitude. He knew
that when the boom came he would be able
to hire burial paraphernalia from one or
other of the big firms, and so handle the
remains with the customary ghoulish pomp
and expense. That is all ended now. An
outbreak of diphtheria or typhoid in his
district leaves him quite cold and unenthu-
siastic. The practice of helping the small
man by hiring to him four-horse hearses,
etc., has been ruled ouf by the combine.
The best thing the indigent body-disposer
can do when a sudden rush of interments
transpires is to nut the surplus ones in the
way of the combination and try and collect
a commission. He has fallen from the proud
position of principal to that of a mere
scuffling, pettifogging agent. There is very
little money in it, and it has the further
unpleasantness of making him feel rather
like Lucifer after the latter was flung out
of the cemetery.
“Turncock” : There are some brilliant gen-
erals in the N.S.W. Labor unions, and the
medal this week goes to the secretary of one
section of the employees of the Metropolitan
Water and Sewerage Board. There has
been, I gather, a difference of opinion be-
tween this union and the Board amounting
to Is. or thereabouts per day. or week, or
something, and a “cease work” meeting has
been called. This was how the matter was
nut by the union secretary in a notification
to the newspapers :
It would be a deplorable thing if Sydney’s water
supply and sewerage system were seriously affected
when'there is a small-pox outbreak and the fleet due.
It would be deplorable, but it probably won’t
get past the semi-threat. What will be dead-
sure deplorable will be Premier Hol-
man’s suppressed language when the Wade
crowd whirls the axe handed to them by
these remarks —whirls it for all it is worth.
It is a repetition of the suicidal business
that followed the holding up of supplies
for the hospitals during a stage of the
Brisbane strike. The suggestion that


810-SHOWMEN!
* | HERE S only one BEST Biograph. We can prove
1 it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE.” Send for Cata-
logue. Sole agents: Jerdan’s, Ltd., 393 George Street
Sydney.
Direction
W. Barrington Miller.
DON’T MISS THE
“BUTTERFLIES”
Jack Waller s Musical Flight of Fancy and Melodious Fun.
PRESENTED BY FRED McCRAE.
THE BRIGHTEST SHOW IN SYDNEY.
LITTLE THEATRE.
EVERY NIGHT at 8.
Prices —3/-, 2/-, I/-; Reserved 4/-
MATINEES THURSDAYS at 2.
Plan at Paling's.
700,000 people with small-pox in their midst
might be exposed to the horrors of insuffi-
cient water and a suspended sewerage sys-
tem ought to be worth a large thanksgiving
cheque from the Wade party just now. And
consider the other circumstances! Parlia-
ment is sitting, a Labor Government is in
power, strikes are illegal, there are Wages
Boards and other good Labor appliances to
make, them unnecessary—in fact, Labor is
running the show. So every time it goes on
strike it shouts a declaration in the public
ear of its own ineptitude and its inability to
work its own machinery. With a State elec-
tion in sight this would be a heavenly time
to hold up the water and sewerage business
—a heavenly time for Wade.
“Melb” : The most important thing in the
Manufacturers’ Show, at the Exhibition
here, is not a manufacture. It is an appeal
and a warning—a placard from the Vic-
torian Forest League. It mentions that in
Warburton 12 acres recently yielded £5OOO
from trees, or over £4OO per acre. This
kept a saw mill going nine months, employ-
ing 24 men, and furnished 3400 tons of
freight to the railway. One tree at Neerim
yielded 10,000 six-foot palings, worth £ll5.
Myriads of such trees have gone up in
smoke, burned off to make farms not worth
more than £5 an acre. Then there are the
bu?h fires to aggravate the wrong. A
single one of them has done £lOO,OOO of
damage. The Forest League urges that
grazing licenses, whose holders are respon-
sible for many of these fires, should be
abolished. They bring in only about £lO,OOO
a year. It is time we woke up. Victoria
consists of 56,000,000 acres, of which
40,000,000 were originally forest. Now we
have but 7,600,000 acres of forest, and only
4,000,000 of them are reserved. Germany,
with 135,000,000 acres, has 35,000,000 acres
of carefully-preserved forests —a hint as to
what the most wide-awake country in the
world is thinking and doing.
Financial note by “H.H.”
A great many people have a suspicion that the
Holman s Government’s device of a Superannuation
Fund for the N.S.W. Civil Service is much the same
old bankrupt ahd shoddy election device as many of
its predecessors. The old N.S.W. Civil Service Fund
went on the rocks. The Police Fund went broke.
Wade s Railway Fund was, at its very beginnings, a
lunatic jest. Every now and then, in the unlucky
Cornstalk State, when an election isn’t far off, some
Government leaps up with a scheme, by which every
public servant is to pay 2d., or some other amount,
into a fund, and then retire on a perfectly solvent
pension of £3OO a year or something. A burst of
gratitude ensues among the unthinking, and the
Cabinet throws itself on the bosom of the country
amid a burst of fireworks. So the fund is established,
and the young and middle-aged start the long, dreary
job of paying in, while a handful of aged get to work
early on the cheerful job of drawing out, and remark
what a splendid idea it is. Of course, pensioners
multiply, and generally, before the time when the
young men of to-day get in sight of their retiring
allowances, there is only 3d. left in the Treasury.
The new proposals look less outrageously insolvent
than some that N.S.W. has had, but even they don’t
look sound. To quote one single point, women are
to pay much less than men for their annuities. Yet
an ordinary insurance office makes a woman pay
ntoT*:. simply because she lives longer on the average,
and draws her allowance longer. This concession to
women is not business, but philanthropy. One-half
the cost of the Civil Service pensions is to be paid
by the State. The State had over £1.000,000 short-
age last year, and it expects another £500,000
deficit by election day. Its position being prac-
ticaHy incurable already, it takes on the new lia-
bility with a light heart. Practically everything in
the way of a corporation which the State possesses—
shire councils, municipalities, the Sydney Art Gal-
lery, the Museum, the Grammar School knd all the
rest—are to provide pensions on the same scale as
the Government. And as they can’t float a £3,000,000
loan any day in London, some of them feel bad
about it.
Premier Holman, of N.S.W., went down
to Dubbo, the other day, and told a patient
country audience how his crowd, or mob. or
rabble were dealing with the decentralisa-
tion problem by duplicating the main rail-
way lines. If Holman saw a man fixing up
some new waterspouts so that more rain
would run into an already-overburdened
water tank, he would say that the plumber
was a fool. And if the plumber told him
that he was doing it with the idea of reliev-
mg the bursting tank, Holman would con-
wue t , h - at he was eithe r a liar or a fool.
What kind of a plumber does Holman call
himself when no one is listening?
There is not supposed to be any racing
at sea; but there are occasional “speed
trials when two new steamers of equal
power happen to be going in the same direc-
tion. The Katoomba and the Canberra, two
of the newest inter-State boats, lately in-
dulged in a trial,” and one morning paper
excitedly recorded the exact times at which
they passed various coastal stations, and
how foaming competitor had gained 25
minutes on the other during the long, fierce
run down the N.S.W. coast. It isn’t racing,
but it s so like it that there is plenty of
opportunity for betting. Then, of course, if
anything happens, the respective ships were
only their best to get their passengers
from one port to the other as quickly as
possible, regardless of coal bills or adver-
tisement. It’s astonishing how little ship-
ping companies care for coal bills or adver-
tisement.
AN EASY WAY TO REMOVE
SUPERFLUOUS HAIR.
IF. the benefit of our lady readers who
suffer from the humiliating disfigurement of
hair on face, lips or chin we publish here-
with a formula which has the advantage of
being simple and inexpensive, as well as
marvellously effective. It is not claimed by
our informant that one application will per-
manently destroy the hair roots, but it is
claimed, and the claims are borne out by
actual tests, that one application completely
lemoves the hair, and its regular use, one or
two days apart, will quicklv and perma-
nently destroy the hair root itself. If you
have hair which you wish permanently re-
moved, ask your chemist to mix 4\ drams
Pulverised Sul thine Concentrate with 2I
drams Zinc Oxide, P. 8., and 1 dram of Pow-
dered Orris Root, and put in a wide mouth
bottle. For use, mix a little of the powder
into a naste on a plate by adding a few
drops of water. Apply with a narrow knife
blade and remove at the end of two minutes
with the back of the knife, when the dis-
solved hair will come with it. Repeat at
intervals of two days. Each time the growth
will be less, until it entirely disannears. A
good, non-greasy cream, such as Creme To-
Kalon, may be used after each application.
CAUTION. —This must not he used as a
substitute for shaving, as its repeated use
completely destroys the hair roots.*
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “The Arcadians.”
Her Majesty's Adeline Genee.
Palace “On Our Selection.”
Criterion “Within the Law.”
Adelphi “Married to Wrong Man.”
Little Theatre “The Butterflies.”
Tivoli Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
National Amphitheatre Brennan-Fuller’s Vaudeville.
Lyceum Spencer's Pictures.
r.vitic 'i
Colonial > Continuous Pictures.
Empress J
Crystal Palace Continuous Pictures, etc.
01ympia....... I ... ... .
Glaciarium / West s Pictures.
Imperial Roller Rink. Roller Skating.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s Quinlan Opera Co.
Princess’s “A Romance in Ireland.”
Kino’s “The Confession.”
Royal “The Fortune Hunter.”
Bijou “Bobby Burnit.”
Majestic “Whose Baby Are You?”
Opera House Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
West’s Palace West's Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
WiKTiis’ Hippodrome. .. Wirths’ Circus.
A modern drama was produced at Sydney
Criterion on Saturday night. It ends at
the curtain of the first act. After that all
is melodrama. Bayard Veiller began with
a big subject—the minimum wage and the
urgent necessity of this Socialistic measure
for the overworked, underpaid shop-girl. An
employee in Edward Gilder’s emporium is
wrongfully convicted of theft from the shop.
The stolen property is found in her locker.
In New York, where the law is specially
constructed for the opportunity of the play-
wright, the employer is allowed to influence
the judge ; and on his insistence she is sent
to gaol for three years. But, instead of
proceeding per Black Maria to prison, she
is allowed to come, handcuffed to a detective,
to interview the boss in his office. She pours
forth an impassioned heap of invective,
painting the dreadful life of the underpaid
employees, and launches an hysterical
threat that when she comes out she
will get even with the Fatman. The em-
ployer makes a strenuous defence. He pays
the usual wages in the business. He even
does more for his employees than other
rival shops. He ostentatiously sends big
cheques to charities.
* * * *
Three years in gaol evidently wipe all
intention of fulfilling her threat from Mary
Turner’s mind; for we learn that she has
made every effort to get back among the
ranks of the shop-employees, only to find
that she is “marked” as a convict. Instead
of becoming a leader in an asitation for a
minimum wage, she goes for pure revenge,
the achievement of which will leave the
underpaid shop-girl exactly where she was.
First, she is rescued from the river by a
crook, and joins his gang; but reorganises
its methods. She has found —though she
does not explain where or how—that there
are many ways of making money “Within
the Law.” With the aid of the best legal
advice, she proceeds to build up a black-
mailing industry, keeping always carefully
on the right side of the statutes. In fact,
her business is run exactly on the lines of
a Stock Exchange, a dairy farm, or a Wild
Cat directorate. She marries Richard Gil-
der, son of her old employer. When the
police and the father protest, she reminds
them of her identity, and swears she has done
this for revenge. But the boy refuses to give
her up. So Police-Inspector Burke (who
keeps his hat on in drawing-rooms, takes
possession of private dwellings, smokes cigars
incessantly, bullies and is fooled —in fact,
behaves exactly as the New York policeman
behaves in detective-stories), intervenes.
By means of a “stool-pigeon,” he prevails
upon Mary Turner’s gang to burgle the
Gilder residence, against Mary’s orders, since
such a job is not “within the law.” He
also secures her presence at the
burglary. _ But har husband suddenly
appears in the Gilcfer library. The gang
becomes suspicious of the “stool-pigeon.”
and one of them shoots him with a noiseless
pistol. The police discover Richard and
Mary with the dead man. the rest of the
crowd having got away. The next act finds
both Mary and her husband under arrest
for murder; but the Insnector manages, by
a series of “third degree” expedients—some
of them clumsy to a degree—to discover the
real offender. Mary’s innocence is estab-
lished, and presumably she finds that she
has loved Richard all along. But there is
no hint that the conditions in her father-in-
law’s emporium are alleviated.
This is the melodrama that got five
curtains for the first act, 10i for the second,
seven for the third, and the usual speeches
from the principals before the audience
would leave. This is the melodrama that
is going to run from three to five months
in Sydney. Why? First, because it is
packed with thrills; secondly, because it is
brilliantly acted. The stage devices,
from the silent pistol shot to the
revolving beam of light from a New
York building, which comes at the correct
moment to disclose to the Inspector the mur-
dered man, from the methods by which
“crooks” communicate with each other
through the telephone, without speaking, to
the dealings of the police with suspects, are
admirably managed and often novel. The
Fatman, in the hands of Reginald Wykeham,
fails just to express his unctuous belief in
his own goodness. Winter Hall and Her-
bert Ford appear as two carefully studied
representatives of the law. The “stool-
pigeon,” played by Harrv Sweeney, is not
ouite convincing. Boyd Irwin possesses the
face of the ideal detective, and plays up to
it. Eric Maxon, as the young Gilder, has
one moment of drama, where he expresses
his belief in Mary Turner’s straightness, and
contrives to force into that moment all that
the author intended. Lincoln Plumer’s im-
personation of the Police Inspector is a bril-
liant piece of work. The acting of E. W.
Morrison, iD the part of a crook, is ouietly
effective. The traeic note struck .by
Miss Gertrude Boswell, the real, and after-
wards. repentant, thief, carries conviction.
In Miss Muriel Starr we see an emotional
actress of a rare order. Miss Mary Worth,
in her comedy, is an admirable foil to Miss
fetarr. As a confidence woman, with an
innocent face and a cheerful supply of mixed
guile, good-nature and bad language, Miss
Mary Worth stands on a high plane of
genuine light comedy.
* * * *
“The Butterflies” continue to delight big
audiences at the Sydney Little Theatre with
their humorous and musical absurdities.
“Married to the AVrong Man” is again on
the bill at Sydney Adelphi. “The Matri-
monial Misprint” is much the same as it
was on its last visit, and on the visit before
that, and it will doubtless be the same on
the next visit; also, it is pretty well the
same as any other bellowdrama that ever
was or apparently ever will be. This par-
ticular specimen of the genus, by one Fred-
erick Melvillain, deals mainly with the do-
ings of two men, one girl and a corpse. The
two men and a girl are distinctive features
of the species. A third man occurs at inter-
vals, and when he does he leaves a dent,
lhe girl in the case has been left to his
tender mercies; also a small box belonging
to her, and supposed to contain the usual
missing will. Taking the will for granted,
and with an eye to business, he forces the
girl to marry his son, to find after the wed-
ding that the box contains only a scrap of
jewellery, market value about 4d. Natur-
ally, instead of looking for work, the disap-
pointed husband proceeds to murder various
people and make things generally unpleasant,
until he bumps with a loud nose against
tne last act, and then everything is OK
except for the dead. Cyril Mackay and
Miss Nellie Fergusson stand out conspicu-
ously as the principal upholders of Right-
eousness and A^irtue: Herbert Leigh is a
most accomplished bad egg ; and Miss Gwen-
doline Dome is well ahead of the rest of the
field at the end.
** * *
More ragtime! A perfect avalanche of it
this time. If the new outbreak has done
nothing else it. has found employment for
thousands or millions of variety artists who
otherwise would have had to get work The
latest dervish in Sydney is Gene Greene,
labelled The Emperor of Ragtime.” How
or when or by whom he was appointed Em-
peror doesn’t transpire; still he speedilv
made mmself the most popular song-merchant
the Tivoli has had for a long time; and
that s all the Tivoli wants. A far more
spectacular turn is that of Reynolds and
itonegan, a pair of expert skaters who have
brought the sliding art to perfection. Fan-
ton s athletes provide a shuddersome display
of aerial gyrations, and Bellora seems
capable of imitating to a remarkable
degree almost anv bird or animal call. The
lour Qs, Willette Whitaker and the
toaxones help to make very attractive bill.
“THE NINETY
AND NINE
AT SYDNEY
PALACE.
Locomotive dashing
through a burn-
ing forest.
Ned Duggan
among the
wistaria.
Slowly, aye, surely, implacable, irresist-
ible, unseen, but terrible, the mills of the
gods grind human ambitions and human
schemes and human works into the impal-
pable, indistinguishable dust of the For-
gotten.” Thus says the Crystal Palace press
agent, and produces a very fine Vita film to
back up his statements; and The Bulletin
having seen, says “Jesso.” This is a word
that is insufficiently appreciated. The
immortal Billings once said something to
this effect: “1 hev known a silent man tew
beat in an argument by just nodding his
head once in a while and saying ‘Jesso!’ ”
At the Colonial, “Love and War in Mexico,”
though it doesn’t call forth such eloquence,
was a very realistic picture—one that the
small boy with the unwise parent may be
depended upon to rush.
The Ninety anqj Nine.” which shows how
the best of men’s luck may peter out and he
be driven to highballs and morning glories
by one woman, and into
other, will cease to serve a?? wl by an '
Friday at the Palace ( Sydney )o" g « aftM
day Bert Bailey will VoSence “ St\tUr-
weeks season of the old favorite “n
Selection.” Nothing more need be ? a ” d ° ur
Sydnev Royai now ' shelters “mi,
Arcadians,” the merry and brieht The
having moved on there from the fMf ° wd
which theatre is now infested hv £lterion-
of “Within the Law.” y the cr °°ks
At the National Amphitheatre (Kvm, ,
this week the programme is certified
acknowledged as being the best yet
novelties are varied, and range from JS*
ling ponies to mermaids. At least tW f'
one mermaid, and she is absolutely T ls
ladyfisli or fishlady The bSS hL S
this season. see n
Genee is still pursuing the enH-m™;
tenor of her dance at Her Majesty’s. Sydn ev g
?A e 4 rablan , lights ballet, “L a Camargo’’’
and Les Sylphides are the chief items™
the bill for the coming week. on
By one of the Lower George-street talent'
There have been many notable battles at Water
1 i ’ bu ,k for the night some vears atn
when Doodle Nixon’s push broke throuo-h
o°j a ChOW joint and use d the f„ h ma £
for boot fodder, none are so interesting „
A e rTh late w S n th f " Crap b ® tween Napo.’s mob and)"]
Arthur Wellesley s push (which included a ner
centage of English blokes). West’s picture CO P k
showing the latter, and although there’s a lot o
kid-stakes in the make-up of the long film a
ertos worth at the Sydney Glaciarium or’oiymnt
is good goods. Lew-o De Groen’s war music is wZh
a couple of trays on its solitary. on “
A note from the Rev. George Walters'—
I have read, with pleasure, “Norbell’s” interesting
reminiscences of my Biblical play, “Joseph 4
Canaan, in which, as he confesses, he was one of
the Brethren. After a lapse of 18 years he mav
surely be pardoned for a few mistakes. He says that
Rignold had incense burnt in the theatre in order
to help out the dim religious idea. He may have
but certainly I have no recollection of it. Aeain’
Norbell” says: “One scene lasted 20min., and B not
one word was spoken. It was merely a spectacular
blaze of sacerdotal ceremony in the Temple of
Osins, at On.” But, during that scene, a good
many words were sung or chanted. The solo parts
were taken by Miss Clayton, as Sersa the Priestess
and Mr. Geo. Boulais, as Merenra, the officiating
Priest. There was also the chorus of priests and
priestesses. I have just referred to the prompt-
book, and found that there could have been very
little of that scene when singing or dancing ‘was
not going forward. Sometimes both. The most
serious error, however, is where “Norbell” says that
Rignold “ruthlessly eliminated every line or word
suggestive of humor or levity, and inexorably blue-
pencilled whole scenes of comedy which Mr. Walters
had evolved.” That is incorrect. I did not write
any comedy, and none was eliminated. Surely this par-
ticular “Brother” must have (like Joseph) had a dream
—a vision of a blue-pencil moving in rhythmic lines
across the Non-existent! Having very humbly, or
Uriah-Heepily, made these corrections,'let me shake
“Norbell” by the hand, agreeing with him that
George Rignold “was a Good Australian and a Big
Chief.” 6
*
The Tenka troupe of Japanese is making
its first Australian appearance at Adelaide
King’s. Sleight-of-hand and magic are its
strong points, and the trick of making water
spring from anywhere and nowhere—includ-
ing' (apparently) a man’s head—is as strik-
ing as it is novel. The Tivoli is strong in
American turns, the four musical and jolly
Primroses being now supplemented by six
Hoboes. Also, Billie Reeves shows how an
intoxicated gentleman can be funny without
being vulgar, and Lolo Krasavina sings songs
at various inoffensive members of the audi-
ence—which is an error in tactics. Any
well-known, middle-aged citizen who has paid
for his seat is liable to be merely annoyed
at being singled out and addressed publicly
as a Great Big Beautiful Doll. The Wil-
loughby-Marlow Co., at the Royal, has re-
placed “The Beggar Girl’s Wedding”—a poor
thing even of its kind —bv “From Convent to
Throne,” which goes much better. Cross
and Crossley, and T. W. Lloyd and Vera
Remee, carry off the thing with a dash.
West’s now show the Rainey wild-animal
pictures, and Wondergraph presents a big
Yankee motor-race. Both are experiment-
ing with a lecturer to explain the films as
they go. The idea is of dubious value, any
way, and some lecturers who cannot get the
pitch of the house are of less value even
than that. Other shows include Shaw’s
“Candida,” revived really well by clever
amateurs; the Lyric Club’s “Spectre
Knight” operetta ; and concerts.
* * * *
“The Confession,” staged at Melbourne
King’s on Saturday, is another illustration
of the might of the confessional and its in-
violable secrecy. Father Bartlett, having
received Joseph Dumont’s confession of a
murder for which the Reverend’s brother is
later charged, has to decide between respect-
ing the penitent’s confidence and seeing his
relative hanged by the neck till he shall be
dead. The old, familiar problem of Duty v.
Affection is handled by the author as subtly
as an elephant might play with a boulder.
By deliberately straining the probabilities
he brings brother Tom within easy distance
of the gallows, the while his Reverence be-
comes a perambulating picture of internal
unrest. To get him out of his difficulty
Dumont is conveniently smitten with gallop-
ing consumption, and after about the short-
est illness on record, makes open confession
GLAD TIDINGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Shows may come and shows may go,
This is all I care to know —-
At the Palace Bailey’s Co.
Has my whole affection,
When I read the poster ad.,
As around the town I pad :
Sarah, Dave and Joe and Dad
Are back “On Our Selection.”
N.s.w.
BILLY B.


f,
&
Schweppes!:*
SARTO
is made from the best Jamaica
Sarsaparilla Root with special
flavorings, the recipe for which
is held by SCHWEPPES LTD.
exclusively,
SARTO is a refreshing bever-
age, and, being a blood purifier,
has most excellent tonic properties.
It is greatly improved by a slice
of fresh lemon.
For All
Seasons
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS.
with his last wheezy breath. Timed by the
watch Bob has beaten the hangman by
!)min. 2 2-ssec.—probably the most remark-
able “save” in the annals of Andersonian
drama. As for Ins Reverence, he has done
his duty to the Church by remaining i n
speechless possession of a secret that every-
body knew, and has only to bring down the
final curtain with a somewhat inapposite
statement to the effect that the Cross is the
hope of all humanity. George Darrell
worked this same idea many years ago in
“The Soggarth,” and Marion Crawford em-
ployed it in his novel “Don Orsino.” H R
itoberts, as Father Bartlett, is fairly good,'
though lie is so fond of the melody" of his
own voice that he cannot utter a pious
commonplace without giving it the char-
acter of a litany or a chant. Max Clifton
is almost convincing enough for the part of
Dumont, and Beckett gives pleasant expres-
sion to the in-no-cence of brother Tom. Miss
Marion Willis is passable as Mrs. Bartlett
though rowdy in the portrayal of harrowing
grief; and Miss Eugenie Duggan as Rose
Crighton continues to say the sweetest
things in the cadence of a chime of bells
as regards Miss Olive Wilton, she is lost
in the character of an incredible hunchback
youth, and manager Anderson ought to offer
a reward for her recovery.
%* * *
“Bobby Burnit,” presented at Melbourne
Bijou last Saturday, doesn’t compare favor-
ably with its stable companions, “The For-
tune Hunter” and “Brewster’s Millions.”
The name character is an amazing creature
of the theatrical world. Suddenly shifted
from a life of luxurious loafing to the
management of his deceased father’s
Stores, Bobby takes a hand at high finance
with an optimistic belief in his own ability.
In about 20 minutes of actual stage time, his
easy fatuity and prodigal recklessness ruin
him utterly, and he is faced with a future
of dismal indigence. But in the supreme
moment of his humiliation, rendered more
trying by the receipt of letters left behind by
his defunct papa, he suddenly changes from
a kindergarten financier to a Jav Gould.
The transition, as portrayed by Hugh Buck-
ler, is positively violent. The difference
between his idea of Bobby the amateur and
Bobby the expert is all the difference between
boyish inconsequence and domineering beefi-
ness, with voice and habits to match. He is
more attractive in his first phase. Reynolds
Denniston plays Sam Stone, a “grafter,”
moderately well; and Kenneth Brampton
strives to make Biff Bates an effective por-
trait. As Samuel Johnson, Arthur Cornell
is most lifelike when he has nothing to say,
and the impersonations of Charles Lawrence
and Kingston Hewitt are dull all the time.
Miss Lilian Lloyd is noticed among the
ladies, and Miss Violet Paget takes a mean
advantage of the critic’s susceptibility to
feminine raiment; for after she has changed
her frocks two or three times, he forgets to
consider the unreality of her characterisa-
tion.
At West’s Melbourne Palace the Battle
of Waterloo is raging with all the noise
that West's minions can manufacture on the
premises. The picture is a creditable
attempt to realise the historical scene as it
probably looked if it didn’t look otherwise.
The principal characters are very good so
hir as we are able to tell, seeing that Time
has done a lot of obliteration since the days
when these eminent deads were in the flesh
and cooked hat of reality.
* * sfs *
Galsworthy’s “Strife,” staged at Melb.
Athenaeum Hall last Saturday, has a wider
reach of human interest than any of Gregan
McMahon’s previous Repertory Theatre pro-
ductions. Dealing with the last day of a
long strike at the Trenartha Tin Plate
Works, the story alternates between the
gloomy comedy of Capital sighing for divi-
dends and the gruesome tragedy of Labor
craving for food. The secretary of the Tin
Plate Workers’ Union (which has ceased to
assist the unfortunate strikers) is the mat-
ter-of-fact angel of peace who hovers around
the proceedings. Practically the play tends
to glorify trades unionism whilst damning
the firebrand David Roberts. He has car-
ried , the men beyond union control.
Supported by strike pay, the workers would
have arrived at the same settlement in a less
unfed state. As it is, the incidental death
of Roberts’s wife, due to a weak heart and
an empty larder, is chargeable to Roberts
only, for he rejects in the first place the
Fnion’s strike-pay conditions, and secondly
he refuses to let the sick woman be fed by
the daughter of the chairman of the Tin
Plate Co.
Various types of character on both sides
—obstinate and conciliatory, coldly selfish
and hotly vindictive, reasonable and fanatical
—are forcibly presented by Galsworthy.
The author suggests that “class” sentiment
is at the root of all industrial trouble, but
he offers no cure for it. The chair-
man’s gentle daughter, who is the manager’s
wife, complains that the envy and hatred of
the workers repel her sympathy. Roberts,
though he commands respect for his pluck,
makes one tired with his rancorous refer-
ences to motor-cars and champagne. _ Finally,
when peace is declared, against their oppos-
i r recon pi la hi 6 ' naexible chairman and the
h, b e striker salute one another,
the presence of compromise they feel
he?ni S np brotherl ‘ V; Galsw orthy’s play has no
lffiht ?n “in C °, relief ‘ no love-making, no
fw sir f , le dai 'l <nes s. its heroes are the
o7prlnc°ipfe y " COntiaSted ’ wron S‘ headed slav es
“THE BARBER OF SEVILLE," AT HER
MAJESTY'S,
MELBOURNE.
Bon Basilio.
Rosina.
George Bryant, the picturesque bad man
ot ™ ar ,V v a melodrama, helped to make
‘‘Strife" an impressive entertainment.
Bryant was, in fact, the backbone of the
performance. His study of Roberts was a
notable work of art. He presented a path-
etic picture of the unlovable rebel,
whose fondness for his own sick wife is so
inconsistent with his want of consideration
for the woes or all the other women. Miss
Hungerford had a lot to do as the manager’s
young wife, and she did it charmingly. Miss
Dorothy Hiscock made a spiritedly venom-
daughter of a mild old striker (Lyall
Christian), the old man being also praise-
worthy in all respects save his mock-Welsh
accent. Messrs. McMurtrie, Walker, Hay-
bittel, Trotman, Cussen, Newell and others
ranged from quite good to very passable,
whilst F. B. Reeve, as the obdurate chair-
man, talked staccato from the pit of his
stomach in a strangely-grimaceful manner.
He never spoke from his lips. Apparently
his idea of expressing determination of
character was to turn his mouth violently
down at the corners like a fish, and leave the
words to get through anyhow. To-night
TThursday) and to-morrow Bernard Shaw’s
“Major Barbara” will be the Repertory bill.
All the Quinlan Opera events done in
Melbourne since last Bulletin were re-
peats, with the exception of “Carmen” on
Saturday. Edna Thornton is the Carmen
of the co., and people who had not seen her
and other members of the cast in characters
better suited to them are perhaps rating
those quick-change artists below their value.
“Hoffmann,” “Aida” and “Tannhauser,” in
that order, are billed for the last three nights
of this week. Next week “Girl of the
Golden West,” “Traviata” and “Trovatore”
will happen for the first and only time this
season.
The popular puerilities of Doonedrama
are proceeding at Melbourne Princess’s as
before. Until Friday right “The Parish
Priest” (who is not “The Village Priest,”
as the programme thoughtfully mentions)
will keep Allen Doone employed on the holy
fatherly job of attending to the loves of Dr.
Walsh and Helen Durkin, whilst restoring
Miss Cassidy to the confidence of Mr.
Dougherty, and doing what he can to bring
doleful James Walsh to terms with Miss
Corrigan, begorra! Doone’s present play
is as soft as an underdone muffin. Also his
pale, thin warble of “Old Fashioned
Mother” lasts fully five minutes by the
clock. Seeing that large audiences delight
in the gentle drones of Doone and all things
appertaining thereto. The Bulletin pre-
dicts financial success for a three nights’
revival of “A Romance in Ireland,” begin-
ning next Saturday (27th), and for “Molly
Bawn,” which is booked for an equally brief
sprint.
This is the sixth week of “The Fortune
Hunter” at Melbourne Royal, but the last
nights of Nathaniel’s regeneration are not
yet announced.
Merian's Acting Dogs arrived at Mel-
bourne Opera House last Saturday, and
achieved a number of humorous effects, with
the aid of scenery and dressing. Frank
Parish, who would probably take first prize
in a barrel-jumping competition, is another
newcomer; and the same remark applies to
Julia Gonzales on the trapeze. In the rest
of the bill the clever Golden Troupe appears
for 20 minutes every evening until further
notice, whereas the De Bruns are dancing
on the verge of the precipice of departure.
The third of the present series of Clara
Jtsutt concerts comes due to-night (Thurs-
day), and again on Saturday the noble voice
will be heard at Melbourne Auditorium.
AT POVERTY POINT.
The visit of the Clara Butt concert co. to Ballarat
last month was an exciting experience for the local
Star gazer. He started his p»an of praise in this
key: “The world famous contralto and her hus-
band need no introduction to a musical audience.
Their reputation still stands out with pristine splen-
dor, and what is more remarkable and pleasurable
to note is that they still have the same power of
moving their hearers by their pure and marvellous
vocalism.” Having thus stated, as a remarkable
fact, that Mr. and Mrs. Butt were still worthy of
their undiminished reputation, the critic went on to
say that the husband’s best effort in marvellous
vocalism was “a charming Irish comic song.”
Quinlan has to pay £lOO a night royalty (to
Wagner’s son) on each performance of the “Ring ’
operas. The royalty on “Parsifal” is said to be ridi-
culously high—several hundreds of pounds—conse-
quently Melbourne is not getting any “Parsifal.”
For that matter, Melbourne didn’t rush the second
round of the “Ring” series. At Quinlan prices the
reproduction of “The Valkyrie” drew only a moder-
ate crowd, though years ago six consecutive per-
formances of that opera (by, Musgrove’s German
co. at the Princess’s) filled the house every time.
Pianist Vincent O’Brien didn’t accompany John
McCormack and company to Bananaland ; Lawrence
Godfrey Smith has gone instead It came about this
way. Sunday before last, O Brien, who was week-
ending at Rose Bay with the McCormacks, suddenly
heard the call of the surf. It was so insistent that
he couldn’t wait until the tram stopped. So he
“lepped,” and a damaged hand and arm took him
off to Lewisham Private Hospital that evening.
Beaumont Smith, back from the Wide World, made
a few remarks over his glass: “How far has Tiny
Town been? Well, count it. We started in Ade-
laide, went through Australia, Maoriland, Africa up
to Rhodesia, England (for a rest),, through Canada,
and now back to Maoriland, opening in Auckland.
This time we will travel under canvas. ... How much
money did we make outside Australasia ? Not as
much as the Federal Bank has in the safe. In
Canada we battled into 10 of about the biggest
circuses in the world —Barnum and Bailey (with a
tent to swallow 30,000 people when they were avail-
able), Buffalo Bill, Pawnee Bill, Rinlings (practi-
cally owned by the Buffalo Bill crowd), Sanger’s, and
several others. They were all fighting for the circus
supremacy of America, and we couldn't hear our-
selves eat soup on account of the noise. Buffalo
Bill went up for 200,000d015. in the middle of it,
60,000d015. being for printing. You can sleep with-
out being anxious as to whether it was strenuous.
I had a Maorilander in advance, and also went ahead
myself. After breakfast, say, we’d be charmed to
see no signs of a circus, and reckon to be on velvet
with the posting. Half an hour or an hour later a
mob of hurry-ups would attract our inquiry and
illicit the reply: ‘Them ? That’s No. 1 car of the
circus posters.’ I’ve seen eight of those cars hit a
town, empty out hundreds of bill-stickers, and cover
the scenery for 50 miles round. Our modest lPtle
show couldn’t get a poster in edgeways. We struck
those human locusts everywhere, eating .up the
advertising space and cleaning out the pubs. We
made a mistake, too, in going into the country dur-
ing the summer time. That’s the worst-paying
season. Then the jumps we had to make! Some
were equivalent to a journey from Adelaide to Bris-
bane. .. .Profits? In Canada what we in Australia
would think paltry is considered big. A Toronto
man had Pavlova through, and she’s probably the'
brightest star in Europe at the present time. Under
his management she toured Canada, and he expected
to clear £lOOO. A profit of lO.OOOdols. is spoken
of in a reverent whisper them With Tiny Town we
made that in a fortnight in Adelaide. . . .New attrac-
tions? Well, I have entered into a partnership
with Louis Mever, London, for the production in
Australia of all the Strand Theatre shows. The
first will be “The Glad Eye.” After that, “The
President,” now playing in Paris, and several
American comedies. The leading members of the
co. will be recruited in England, and will include
some well-known Australians. Daisy Markham ?. .. .
Haveanother ?”
“Petramos”: All Wowsers please leave the room.
Since, in dancing, the exhibition of legs is per-
mitted, I rise to propose the abolition of tights.
r «o'’''’'ded, as regards male extremities, by Oscar
cne on behalf of the Asiatic Actors’ League, and
supported bv Hamlin MacTavish, representing the
Presbyterian Flingers.] I wish it understood that
I move the abolition (within reason) of women-
dancers’ tights. Chief witness in support, the man-
ager of the Hansa Theatre, Hamburg, where I found
the experiment failed to raise a blush, mostly because
the absence was not immediately noticeable. Real
legs (the brother at the keyhole will kindly desist)
are, in my modest opinion, sightlier than legs which
are shut up in silk. The silk is liable to sag ; and,
further, it is often a fit subject for a laundry bill.
Moreover, a dimple on a pretty knee (all other
efforts having failed, the Sergeant at Arms will
please block up the keyhole) is a sight not only
for the gods, but for the circle and stalls as well.
Anyone doubting the value of evidence by the man-
ager of the Hansa Theatre is hereby informed that,
in Germany, that theatre has a reputation for afflu-
ence second only to the plutocratic Berlin Winter-
garten, and is the most Wowsery amusement resort
in Kaiser Willie’s domains, starting nightly at 8
o’clock and concluding with a prayer for Bill at
10.30.
“Ex-Manager”: The Bulletin “Sundry Shows”
(11/9/’l3) instances Diver Peart as a man who
tossed dice with death and lost. Since Peart’s day,
however, divers go much nearer sudden death for a
living, and take longer odds. I’ve a letter in my
possession from an American who offered to dive
70ft. on to a hard board incline twice daily, and do
triple parachute descents of 3000 ft. or so in his
spare time for £7 per iveek. He didn’t even want
Sundays off. It is amazing how hard some mer.
will work to escape toil.
Dancing was to be a feature of Beerbohm Tree’s
“Joseph and his Brethren” in London. For this
part of the business Tree had secured the services
of a man who has “made a special study of scriptural
dances and their evolution through the ages.”
According to this authority, some of the Biblical
dances have evoluted queerly. For instance, the
American cakewalk “can be traced to the Biblical
celebration of the festival of ripe fruits.” And as
Miriam, the sister of Moses, did a sort of double-
turn before the Ark—-she danced and played the
tambourine —Irving Sayles seems to be supplied with
Scriptural warrant for his capers. ..
“0.K.”: Sooner or later the Williamson firm is
certain to form a touring Grand Opera Co. on the
lines of the Quinlan organisation, and then the one
trouble will be to get a Quinlan who can be trusted
with a ruling rod of iron. There is no insubordina-
tion in this invading army of 175 or more—the
actual figures are said to be 181. Quinlan’s word
is law. His strength lies mainly in the fact that
none of his most versatile principals are “star”
attractions, and nobody can prevent an advertised
performance from coming to pass by refusing to
appear. The co. carries no indispensables. Every-
body capable of playing a leading part has been
carefully prepared to come to the front if required,
and the leading figures in the chorus can look
forward confidently to their coming chances as minor
principals. Very few of the Quinlan operas are ever
repeated with exactly the same cast as they had for
the previous performance, and no cast is weaker
than another in all respects. Moreover, when the
cast is weakened after a first production, the orchestra
and chorus are likely to be all the better for their
previous experience. “Tales of Hoffmann” is seem-
ingly the most useful card in Quinlan’s present pack.
He advertised it at the outset for one performance
only, but has repeated it several times, with vary-
ing principals, because it draws the crowd that is
most easily pleased. But there has always been a
lapse of several nights between the revivals. Con-
stant change is essential to the success of a Quinlan
season, and the strictest discipline is necessary to
keep it going at that high pressure.
(Continued on page 34.)
Barring two or three big new loans, the
Norton-Griffiths’ borrowing agreement, the
row between Griffith and Wade, the small-
pox, a heap of strikes, the count-out in the
Australian Parliament, some . church rows,
the advent of the Fleet, and the usual
divorces, burglaries, etc., it has been a quiet
week.
“Frank C.”: Joke Cook boasts 37 “fol-
lowers” in the House of Reps., yet couldn’t
rake up a quorum of 25 last Friday. lie
complains that the Opposition won’t help
him, but, if he has a majority, why doesn’t
he run the House? When the bells were
calling for the necessary members, several
liberals who should have been there—lce-
berg Irvine among them—were late. Pigott
and De Laune liyrie were playing tennis
outside, and stayed to finish the game. When
they did condescend to answer the call it
w r as too late, the House had been counted
out. It’s a dreadful thing to be the leader
in a great Liberal revival and have a work-
ing majority that won’t work. By the way,
this count out draws attention to the solemn
fact that Cook is so poorly supported in the
Senate that, without Labor’s assistance, he
would be always counted out. He hasn’t
even a quorum. Fancy having to depend on
the Opposition to keep a House for you !
“Jeames,” who is this paper’s accredited
Court Correspondent, discourses on a
Government House Matter :—■
Governor Strickland, of N. S. Wales, holds the
world’s record as an A.D.C.-loser. A.D.C.’s fall off
him, in a manner of speaking, like water off -a
duck’s back. The two latest to go the way of an.
Gentlemen Helps that enter the Strickland house-
hold are Captain Ronald Forbes and Captain Talbot.
This amiable pair of young warriors arrived in the
Mother State full of hope and loyalty and good in-
tentions some six months ago. On Monday last, after
many bitter trials and innumerable excursions and
alarms, they discovered that the billet was over the
odds, and that none but a brace of Jobs could hold
it. So Captain Talbot leaves for Epgland on the
11th of next month, while Captain Forbes has severed
his connection with State Government House, and
will follow in the wake of his colleague so soon as
the lease of the cottage which he and his wife have
taken in Sydney is up. Meanwhile the distracted
Strickland, despairful at the prospect of having no
one to trail behind him in a uniform, is casting
round feverishly among che local forces, naval and
military, and, at short intervals, cabling wild re-
quests for assistance and help and succor, and so
forth, to the Mother Land. It is all very dreadful,
and the position at Cranbrook at the time of writ-
ing bears many points of resemblance to the condi-
tion of things that led up to the Guerre folle, while
in other important respects it suggests the classic
row which is inalienably associated with the name
of the late Cato. The only light on the whole de-
plorable situation gleams fitfully from the fact that
Governor Strickland is not unused to being without
A.D.C.’s. He has tried it before, and the Empire
has not burst. In fact, he is more often without
these ornaments than otherwise. Victor Hood stood
the Cranbrook atmosphere for three months. Then
the daily newspapers, ever informative—-in the sense
that they always supply the public with the informa-
tion that they consider good for it, and no more—
announced that Mr. Hood was ill. He was so ill
that he went to Victoria and joined the staff of Sir
John Fuller, where he has abided contentedly ever
since. To Westralia, when Strickland was Governor
there came one Kerr-Pearse, of the Rifle Brigade, and
his friend, Selby-Smyth, also of the Rifle Brigade.
They had chucked their billets, and were streaking
back home, before Perth knew what drinks they
liked best. After feverish efforts to get a fresh
supply of A.D.C. from the country which is the
chief exporter of such goods, Strickland was fain to
settle down with a local man named Wilkins. One
of the many reasons which are advanced darkly in
the servants’ hall to explain all this unpleasantness
is edifyingly typical of the Government House point
of view. The idea is that the Governor has made the
mistake of hiring A.D.C.’s out of his own class. Hood
is the son of a Bridport, Talbot a scion of the Norfolk
family, Forbes a member of a great and incredibly
haughty Scotch clan, and so on. Strickland is a mere
semi-Maltese bourgeois. For such a one to give orders
to a Kerr-Pearse, or any other double-barrelled
social circumstance, is equivalent to a member of
the Union Club being hectored arrogantly by a Paris
House waiter. Hence all sorts of misunderstand-
ings and heart-burnings. Let us, in conclusion, dear
friends, cheer ourselves up with the reflection that
two benefits at least emerge from rows of this sort.
Firstly, the liners on which A.D.C.’s mostly travel do
business both outwards and inwards, that, were a
Dudley or a Denman at the helm, they would have
missed. In the second place, the local article in the
A.D.C. line is given a show. So, take them for all
in all, these regularly recurring uproars are rather
by way of being in the public interest.
THE DOVE IS A FOOL!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Just over the skylight of the Divorce Court a
pair of doves have established their home, and
yesterday, while his Honor was pronouncing the
dissolution of the marriage of two highly-placid and
wealthy people, the softly penetrating “coo-coo” of
the brooding dove almost induced the court orderly
to cry “silence.” —Sydney Telegraph.
I hate the soft coo of the dove
That comes from the branches above;
1 think it’s all tripe—that monotonous pipe
Of the bird who is always in love.
It brings back the days when, imbued
With a fatuous passion, I wooed
In a garden infested with doves who contested
For kisses and foolishly cooed.
1 loathe the dull coo of the dove!
With poles I would savagely shove
Each soft, downy nest where the rotten things
rest
And eternally moan about love.
I wish they could chatter or snort,
For they coo till I’m quite overwrought;
And they’re billing and mating where lawyers
orating
Are breaking Love’s bonds in a court.
I think there’s no fool like the dove!
No sillier passion than love!
Our fatuous coos give us Shivers and blues
When we come back to earth. But above
The d—d bird keeps on making the row
That enrages us all. He’s a cow
Is the bird that keeps cooing,
And pecking and stewing,
And playing the fool on a bough!
N.S.W.
JOHN FURIOUS.


LARGE KIT
From —
BAG
-23/6.
Strong, roomy, square-opening Kit
Bags—the ideal bag for Men’s week-
ends, office or travelling —convenient
to handle. Will hold all you need for
short periods.
Our special value —own manufacture
—made of stout quality Cowhide
throughout-—mounted on strong steel
frame. With side lock and end clips'—and straps right round —all
fastenings perfectly reliable. Well lined and excellently finished. It
is a Kit Bag that will last. In all sizes.
20 inches.
23/6
22 inches.
25/-
24 inches.
28/6
Sent Carriage Paid to any part of Australasia.
DAVID JONES LTD.,
Opp. G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Csvr
Gossip
Oe
O v
O
tP
r ''
Ot&OOYLE
—I
Pratt’s Refineries provide Spirit
to Owners of
1,300,000 Motor Cars
who need Economical Motoring.
Every drop of Pratt’s is concentrated power, requiring
only a properly adjusted carburetter to liberate it.
PRATT’S economy is recognised by motorists who
demand efficiency.
Over a million motorists use it.
We have an interesting booklet as below —tells all aboul
carburetters and their adjustment. You can have a
copy free by dropping a line to Depart-
ment “H” at any of our branches
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty. Ltd.
•khroushsut ,he Coo.n.o0*~lt»
and New Zealand
SOCIETY
AS SWEET WILL HATH IT.
FERDINAND: “Haw! Why do you call your
cat Dick Crookback? ”
ANGELA: “Well, you see, it's a Manx, and
reminds me of the words of King Richard:
‘ I that am curtailed of this fair proportion.
Cheated of feature by dissembling nature,
Deformed, unfinished, sent before my time
Into this breathing world scarce half-
made up.'"
“Scoffer”: How empty are the boasts of
the lovesick! A young Sydney man who
had informed his lady, with the usual
flourish of the pen, that he “would go to
the end of the world with her,” was, last
week, sued by her for common, ordinary
breach of promise. He may have been ready
enough to go to the world’s end and look
over the edge, or make the pilgrimage to the
Holy Land, or Manly; but the plain job of
establishing a home in the suburbs and
keeping it going in an unsensational way
with his wages was apparently too much
for him. What suggests these absurd poet-
ical bursts to the inflamed mind of the
lover? Is it the drawing-room song, with
its wild and meaningless howls about win-
ning a world’s applause, and tearing
down the eternal stars that guide the
mariner and the lone explorer, so that she
may be saved the expense of tortoiseshell
hair-combs? I guess it must be. Observe
the intense reverence with which the young
man in love listens to any such musical ex-
travagance. He agrees with every word of
it, and the female for whom he would dis-
turb all creation is the ordinary-looking girl
on the other side of the room who is so pre-
occupied with her bangles and frizzy back
hair.
The latest proposal, moved by Hutchin-
son, M.L.A., for a referendum on the time-
worn question of Bible teaching in Vic.
State schools, is not likely to lead to busi-
ness. Hutchinson submits two questions for
the voters. Firstly, are they in fa,vor of
unsectarian Scripture lessons being given to
the youngsters during school hours _by
teachers who have no conscientious objec-
tions. Which is tantamount to _ a sugges-
tion that a matter of public policy should
be left to be decided by the “conscience”
of individual teachers in more than 50 per
cent, of the schools. In 1249 schools all
the instruction is given by one person only,
whose individual faith would thus become a
matter of grave concern to all the local
parents who take religion seriously. Sec-
ondly, Hutchinson would ask the voters
whether they approve of introducing clergy-
men or their agents into State schools, “un-
der conditions similar to those existing in
N.S.W. and Queensland.” The average
voter in Victoria knows nothing of the con-
ditions aforesaid, and is equally ignorant
as to whether they are giving good results.
Between the two rival systems of State
school education —strictly secular and
somewhat otherwise —the issue slmuld be
decided on crime statistics. If religious in-
struction has raised N.S.W. and Queens-
land to a higher moral plane than Victoria,
where the Government has shut the parson
out of its State schools, Victoria will be in
favor of adopting it. If not, any infringe-
ment on the straight-out secular system
would seem most uncalled for. What Vic-
toria wants before considering any refer-
endum questions is a report from an inter-
state Commission of Police.
Melbourne Y.M.C.A. has become infused
with the spirit of South-street, Ballarat, and
is going to hold a
series of competitions
not restricted to
Christian young men.
There will be prizes
for singing, piano-
thumping, orating,
poster-drawing, essay-
writing and other
things, including reci-
tations. A great time
is in store for young-
man Christian talent.
The brightest intel-
lects in the Associa-
tion are studying
chunks of “Paradise
Lost” (the chunks
that drop hardest on
the D—l), or making
ready to bury Caesar
and stand the Boy on
the Burning Deck.
Also, the literary
lisrhts are considering
“The Treatment of
Moral Problems in
Recent Fiction,” and
the young man who
discovers the largest
amount of immorality
in the worst novels
will get a medal. The
debating class, too. is
in active training.
This feast of enter-
tainment at the
Y.M.C.A. Ilall begins
on October 27, and
•will continue through Cup week, when the
godless section of the Melbourne public will
be otherwise engaged.
* * * *
Melbourne Criminal Court was invaded
last week by a badged female who has formed
herself into a Society for the Protection of
Child-bearing Women. She is organising
secretary, president, financial committee, and
all the other members of this society, and
she proclaims her identity with a band round
her bonnet marked, “Protection of C.B.
Women.” The Court, not being in an inter-
ested condition, ordered the intruder to be
slung out.
The British legislators who are rushing
around Australia will take home some
gloriously hazy notions about this land of
milk and honey. One day last week they
were captured by the Melbourne University
authorities and made to listen to a speech
of welcome by John Madden, after which
the very unlordly Sheffield arose and stated
that the Sydney University should be very
proud to have a man like John at the head
of its affairs. No doubt any University
would be proud to be connected with John,
but exactly what Sydney in particular has
to do with it isn’t obvious. It’s a moral
certainty that these hurried legislators will
distinguish themselves when they get home
by the learned way they discuss the beauti-
ful harbor of Melbourne and the fine, wide
streets they noticed in Sydney.
A HAPPY SHOT.
POLLY (to big sister’s admirer): “Guess what father said about you last night."
ADOLPHUS: “ Oh , I couldn’t guess, weally."
POLLY: “I'll give you a peach if you can guess."
ADOLPHUS (flustered): “ Oh , Polly , I haven’t an idea in the world."
POLLY: " Urr —you was listening."
The case of one Gleeson has moved on a
peg. In 1904 Gleeson joined in a Govern-
ment gamble or lottery or financial ambus-
cade for a piece of land near Dubbo
(N.S.W.), and drew the winning marble.
The Land Board confirmed the application
and he entered into possession. Then one
Toynton butted in and argued that the selec-
tion awarded to Gleeson was, under a sec-
tion of one of Ma’s pyramid of Land Acts,
wrongly staked, and as Gleeson wouldn’t
take his word for it, he had the law on him.
That long-eared creature brayed and blew
the flies off itself with its tail for 18 months,
and ended up by telling Gleeson to get
work; also, it charged him £2OO for the
advice. But there was nothing effete about
Gleeson. He leaped up and pursued the
animal that keeps what brain it possesses
from evaporating with a horsehair lid, and
demanded his money and what legal ven-
geance might be available. For eight whole
and entire years Gleeson and the enemy
periodically hove up over the horizon of
things, and dashed past in a cloud of dust
and impious language. One of these speed
bursts brought up in a Select Committee of
the Assembly’, and, last week, the umpires
recommended that Gleeson should be handed
back the £2OO, so that peace might be upon
the land and the loam be allowed to settle.
The quaint condition of the municipal in-
tellect was manifested when Richmond
(Vic.) council called itself together to con-
sider the awfulness of Mayor Webber in
neglecting to drink whisky to the greater
glory of George V. Councillor Street brought
the Almighty conspicuously into the discus-
sion. He offered prayers to the Almighty,
and called on God to bless everyone; and,
according to the Argus report, the assem-
bled Bumbles greeted every such reference
with “laughter,” “loud laughter,” “renewed
laughter,” and other manifestations of deri-
sion. But they were all venomous towards
Webber for refusing to drink. Yet even if
Webber drank himself right up to the beery
gates of perdition, Geo. V. would have been
no better off. Those people who reckon that
a king can’t prosper unless he is drunk are
a quaint crowd. This writer wouldn’t be
one of them on any account. A whole bottle
of cocktail wouldn’t tempt him.
In a case in the Sydney District Conn
last week the plaintiff was married to tfi
defendant’s daughter; and the defendant h !
married the plaintiff’s sister. The
was, therefore, his father-in-law’s broSS?
m-law; he was also his own uncle ana A
he had any children, they would be his own
grand-nephews and nieces. wn
A Melbourne jury acquitted Arthur
Parker, who was charged with shooting at
one McKenzie with intent to slaughter.
McKenzie had philandered with Miss
Parker, and dad pointed in the direction of
the altar with a business-like revolver. The
young man thought over the matter and
decided to make a bolt for it, whereupon the
other tired a shot which came within an ace
of outing an innocent shop-assistant. The
jury took only 10 minutes in deciding to
believe Parker’s yarn that he had fired
merely to frighten McKenzie, so things are
just about as they were. Parker is un-
quodded, McKenzie uninjured and the lady
unmarried. At the same time, it is up to
someone to issue a warning that the sticking
up of bachelors with a demand for their
freedom or their lives must not be allowed
to develop into a habit on the strength of
some Yankee fiction about an “unwritten
law.” When this country wants a law
observed it is going to write it down in
black and white ; and when it hasn’t written
the alleged law down, the average Aus-
tralian jury is pretty certain to remark
coldly that the thing isn’t a law because
the people never intended that it should be
one.
Another familiar old Collins-street build-
ing is a jumble of bricks and broken mortar
—Scots’ Church parsonage, erected in 1851.
Pastor Iletherington was in charge there for
a long series of years. His church was a
square brick tabernacle, rather larger than
that of the Independents, on the opposite
corner. Iletherington’s church was later
plastered over, and a spire built, but it
proved to be crooked a-top; so church and
spire were both demolished, and the present
house run up from designs by Reed and
Barnes, architects of the Town Hall and
Exhibition. Meanwhile the Independent
church had been replaced by the present
empty magnificence. The Scots’ parsonage
goes to make way for the new Assembly
Hall. The Presbyterians also own the Audi-
torium, on the site of their old .Assembly
Tlall, which was St. Enoch’s church. Ihe
parsonage has not been occupied by the pai-
son for a whole generation past; the city
clergy these days live in luxurious suburbs,
and only come in to their place of business
when the bell rings.
THE MANAGER AND THE CLERK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sir, —In Monday’s issue you reported Mr. Cook,
the Prime Minister, as having stated that “We
wanted plenty of weddings in this young country.”
I would like to draw attention once more to the fact
that there are numerous young men who are willing
and otherwise prepared to get married, but unfor-
tunately they are debarred by the institution to
which they belong. Some nine or 10 months ago,
Mr. Fisher had inquiries made as to what banks
and insurance companies prohibited their officers
from marrying under a certain salary. When the
paper was laid on the table, it was found that all
the most important banks had a rule that their
officers were not to get married unless they were in
the receipt of £2OO per annum.
—Extract from a sorrowful cleric's letter.
He sits upon a padded chair;
I perch upon a high cane stool ;
Grey is his face and grey his hair;
He says I am a “d —d young fool.”
I send Her notes —I take her out,
But with my love I may not wed.
(The grey chief’s wife is stern and stout,
And wears large feathers on her head).
Sometimes he comes and groans to me
When she has hit him for a cheque.
(“Now there you are, my boy! You see
How you will get it in the neck !
“Take my advice and keep your cash,
The single life’s the one for ease;
This marriage settles all men’s hash,
And women are d —d hard to please!”)
I cannot think that She —My Own—
Would ever be so grim and fat,
And drive me out to curse and groan.
Time cannot be as harsh as that!
I cannot see her, fiercely fat,
Come rustling to my desk in town,
With fearful feathers in her hat,
And shrill demands for cash —cash down.
Maybe I am the fool he says;
But, high upon my slavish stool,
I yearn to win the chair that pays
And be the richer sort of fool.
x.s.w.
FOE.


INTEREST AWAKENED.
Interest awakened everywhere in the marvellous
cures of Cuts, Burns and Wounds with Dr. Sheldon’s
Magnetic Liniment. Is. 6d. and 3s. Obtainable
everywhere.*
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
TO
H.M. THE KINO.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubto & Co. on each Bottle.
Wild’s Hairdressing Rooms. 30 Upstairs.
Sydney Arcade, George and King Streets, Sydney, is
the proper place to go if you want the best of atten-
tion. Electric head and face massage done in the
latest American style. Hours of business: 8.30 to
6.30; Saturday close at 1 o’clock.*
A Cool Light-weight Panama
r
We illustrate one of our genuine South American
Panamas, which is particularly appropriate for
Summer wear in Australia. Its extreme lightness
and easy-fitting shape renders it very comfortable for
wear during the hot weather. With holidays so
close upon us the immediate selection of so smart and
so cool a hat is advisable.
The perfect shaping of the low-set crown and very
even finish of the finely-woven plait will commend
this hat to men who seek a smart effect.
The brims, which are adaptable to any position,
vary from to 3} inches wide.
Price
Postage 6d. Extra.
21
Please state size when ordering.
Catalogue of Men’s Wear on request.
PEAPES <& CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS.
309 and 311 Georg»e Street, Sydney.
The Vic. Cadet Forces are petitioning the
Minister of Defence for butter, marmalade,
and other aids to appetite with their even-
ing meal at next annual encampment. Dry
bread has hitherto been the rule at tea, anil
the young warriors reckon that bread and
jam would be more supporting. After all.
there is no special reason why the horrors of
war should be anticipated in the commis-
sarirt department. .Tam and treacle are
not subversive of military discipline, and n
national defender doesn’t need to be edu
cated up to a Spartan menu.
ANNOYANCE
IN THE
SACRED EDIFICE.
London, Monday evening.—The suffragettes, Winnie Wallace and Flora Smith, who were arrested and
remanded on a charge of assaulting the Prime Minister, Mr. Asquith, at the Lossiemouth golf links,
Elgin, sat opposite the Premier's seat in the Duffus church, and stared at him throughout the service.
After the service the women made offensive remarks as the Prime Minister passed.— Cablegram.
The “All Australian” Exhibition in Mel-
bourne (which is almost entirely Victorian
in its commercial aspects) scored an at-
tractive advt. for the show at the expense
of other people’s feelings. The com-
mittee of the Exhibition withdrew
Norman Lindsays picture, “the Crucifixion
ot \ enus, from the art-gallery exhibits,
whereupon the N.S.\\. Society ot Artists de-
manded an explanation, llie explanation be-
gan and ended in a surmise that Lindsays
clever drawing might ‘give offence to a cer-
tain section of the community. After fur-
ther consideration of this surmise, the com-
nnttee decided to replace the withdrawn
work, the announcement of which fact was
followed by a rush of inquiring citizens who
had not previously taken any live interest
in the display at Melbourne Exhibition
Luilding. Norman Lindsay can now count
himself among the best friends of Australian
industry and commerce.
The week’s theological note:
r,„P a^] e< l. .th®,t the Rev. A. C. Headlam, late Princi-
. , College, London, of which one-time
, ' ,' an 1 rimate Barry was also Principal, comes
lQii 6 fi°i* rne i to ve t* l6 Moorhouse Lectures in
*. lhese lectures were founded some years ago
u ’r n ° ry the Australian episcopate of Dr.
/•000n USe ’ hished in Melbourne on a modest
L. oi \, so per annu m from 1876 to 1886, and
“ translated” to Manchester at £4200 a
!’ out; £1 which he saved enough in seven vears
■ 0 the gaiters. Moorhouse, who was born
m 1826, is still living in retirement in England.
e was the first bishop of an Australian see to be
promoted to an English diocese, though two others
Kenmon and Harmer, both of Adelaide—have
since received calls to more affluent billets in Eng-
land. Kenmon is now the senior English bishop in
active work, and makes ends meet on £5OOO a
year at Bath and Wells. Harmer struggles along
, , on £4OOO a year. Their screw at
Adelaide was £l2OO. To return to the Moorhouse
lectures. A sum of £2OOO was raised in Melbourne
as endowment, and Moorhouse himself gave a fur-
ther £lOOO. The lecturer, who must be an Angli-
can bishop or priest, gets the interest on this for
one year, and in return has to give six lectures on
some religious or sociological subject, and to pub-
hsh the lectures in book form within six months,
retaining the copyright. No lecturer can hold office
more than twice, and at least 10 years must elapse
between his first and second tenure. The appoint-
ment rests with the Anglican bishops in Australia
and Primate Nevill, of Maoriland. So far the lec-
turers have been Bishop Mercer, of Hobart; Dean
Stephen, of Melbourne; Bishop Green, of Ballarat;
Archbishop Clarke, of Melbourne; and Dr. Radford,
of Sydney.' Radford—this year’s lecturer—is the
° n iZ • °, ne has £ one to an Australian printer and
publisher for the production of the book required in
terms of. the lectureship; all the others published
abroad.’ An English church paper, reviewing
Archbishop Clarke’s book, published in London,
asked pertinently: “Are there no publishing firms in
Australia?” Radford’s lectures, entitled “Ancient
Heresies in Modern Dress,” were a bitter disap-
pointment to those who expected them to deal with
the X-ray skirt and peek-a-boo blouse. Headlam,
who comes to Melbourne next Easter, cuts much ice in
English church circles as scholar and Biblical critic,
and has had the training of a large number of the
younger Anglican clergy. Incidentally, he follows
the inky way as editor of the Church Quarterly
Review. Radford, his predecessor in the lecture-
ship, edits a similarly, named Australasian quar-
terly. Headlam will explain how prophets made
axe-heads float, what kind of whale it was that
Jonah swallowed, and what language Balaam’s edu-
cated donkey spoke. At least, the subject of his
lectures is advertised as “Miracles.”
Forty-seven American boys who are tour-
ing the world under Major Peixotto, who
was here in 1909 with a former batch, are
now in South Aus. They had three weeks
in London, and a few days in Paris, and have
put in eight weeks all over Westralia, most
of the Australian boys who went to the
U.S.A. last year having gone from that
State. They played 18 football matches while
there —Australian rules —and won seven of
them. From Adelaide they go to Tasmania,
Victoria and Sydnev (small-pox permitting),
and so up to Manila and Japan. The major
says this education-by-travel idea is catch-
ing on so well that the next tourists in
America will be a party of French boys.
WIFELY ECONOMY.
“ Now, look here, my dear , this sort of thing
has to slop. Are you aware that it takes
three-fourths of my salary to meet your
dressmaker's bills? ”
"Good heavens, George! What do you do with
the rest of your money?”
“C.E.”: The U.S. Government is nego-
tiating a treaty with Nicaragua for the sole
right of cutting a canal, to serve as a second
string to the Panama ditch. Before the
U.S. took up the latter in earnest, it par-
leyed with Nicaragua, and obtained a con-
cession, which, however, lapsed. It was
said at the time that the Nicaraguans had
over-reached themselves, with an idea that
the Panama Canal was not feasible. Now,
better terms are expected by Uncle Sam.
The Cuelebra cut is a weak link in the big
Panama job. Landslides have been per-
sistent, giving the engineers much anxiety;
and there is always the dread of earth-
quakes. One way or another, the U.S. may
thus find the canal blocked just at a vital
period of trouble. The Nicaragua work
would not be of enormous cost. The lake,
of 70 miles,. would be taken in; also the
San Juan River. The total length would be
180 miles, of which 62 would have to be
cut- —comparatively easy compared with
Panama. Ships would, of course, take
longer passing through, but they would be
377 miles nearer New York, and as much
nearer Liverpool. The dividing ridge is
lower at Nicaragua than at Panama, but
Panama might, with great expense, be made
a straight sea-level cut, while any attempt
to do that sort of thing at Nicaragua would
cause great excitement. It is a serious mat-
ter to spill one of the biggest lakes in
America bodily into the ocean. If the
Nicaragua canal is attempted, of course the
little republic will drift into Uncle Sam’s
keeping, and add another to Samuel’s re-
sponsimlities and sleepless nights. It is a
stormy place. One history says briefly:
“Its %st ruler was a murderer ; the second
a murderer and rebel; the third murdered
the second; the fourth was a forger; the
fifth a murderer and rebel.”
* * * *
“Afternoon Tea” : I forget for the moment
what satirist owns the socially ambitious
lady who “tried to found a salon but only
succeeded in opening a restaurant.” But
the salon which is also a restaurant really
has arrived in Sydney, and anyone who has
the money can go and enjoy high-toned food
behind a sign which is associated in most
people’s minds with highbrowing alone. The
butchering studio, the sausage gallery and
the beer embassy haven’t yet shown up. but
they may be looked for any morning.
“II.II.” : Sydney is enjoying an exhibition
which deals with the question: “VVhat to
Do With our Girls.” It may be a burning
problem, but for some years past Australia
has been mostly worried in the kitchen about
“How to Do Without our Girl/’ The ab-
sence of that female has got it down and
bitten it.
** + ■*■
“Bloore”: The uncertificated nurse still
thrives, and it is up to the powerful British
Medical Association to justify itself and
wipe her out —as it easily can if it really
wants to. I have just seen a communica-
tion from “St. So-and-so” (the “private”
hospital nearly always has its Saint, for
advertising purposes), and quote an ex-
tract :—-
Mary Jones, which I have in my care, was taken
to Hospital yestaday suffering from Plusary.
Still, when we see the miserable pittances
handed out to matrons of country hospitals,
one can hardly expect a wild rush for a
diploma. Thirlmere (N.S.W.), with an
average of 40 patients, advertises for a
matron and offers £7O a year!
The Smith family has, in the main, been
fairly respectable, but one Rev. _ Hans
Schmidt, of New York, is bringing it into
disrepute. It is alleged against him that
he married Anna Aumaller in complete dis-
regard of the Ten Commandments, perform-
ing the marriage ceremony himself without
witnesses —that is to say, that he. asked
himself: “Will I take this woman?” and
replied to himself that he would. It is also
alleged that he conspired with a disrepu-
table dentist; that they jointly and severally
killed the girl, disembowelled her, cut her in
various pieces, and scattered the fragments.
Further, it is declared that he is mad, that
he is a notorious swindler, a hardened
pickpocket, and an expert maker of
bogus money, and that he isn't the
xvev. Hans Schmidt at all, the real person
of that name having died some time ago.
And when it is found out that Anna was
somebody else, and that the shadowy dentist
is '’dually a blacksmith, the tale of this
unholy Smith of New York will be about
complete. Perlians, after all. there is no
such place as New York. It may be an
optical illusion.
The latest application to The Bulletin
for a job :
I wish to be on your staff, as District Representa-
tive or Occasional Contributor. I have written some
2000 arts, for 800 odd papers.
1 am member of Astronomical Society, Unitarian
Church, Sons of Temperance, Chess Club, Y.M.C.A.,
Engineers, British Maidens’ Club, Old Country Club,
Over-Seas Club, the Emmanuel Society, and regu-
larly attend all Organ Recitals and Royal Society
Lectures.
I have had a good industrial experience, having
worked for such firms as Armstrong Whitworth, Swan
Hunter, Wm. Gray, Furness Withy, Robt. Stephenson,
J. W. Spencer, Walter Scott, N E. Railway, Shear-
ers, etc. Worked in shipbuilding yards on the
Mauretania and warships; in Marine Engine Works ;
Dockyards, Locomotive Shops, Steel Works, Rolling
Mills, Paper Mills, Packing Factories, Plow Works,
Brass Shops, Claypits, Coal-mines, Contractors’
yards, Gunshops, and other departments of industry.
• I was two years reporting, for a daily, and served
six months to the printing in a jobbing house. Here
I did all the shipping, industrial and political and
religious work.
I have studied naval architecture, machine draw-
ing, mathematics, phonography, steam, astronomy,
electricity, geology and other subjects in evening
classes at Elswiek Works School, Durham College of
Science, Durham University, West Hartlepool Tech-
nical School, Newcastle Lit. and Phil. Soc., New-
burn Working Men’s Club, Walker Mechanics Insti-
tute, The Polytechnic, Natural History Museum and
Geographical institute.
For a while I was in business as a sewing-machine
repairer at Hartlepool, Haswell Moor and Haswell
Plough. I was connected with the I.L.P. Club,
Liberal Club and many societies aiming (and largely
failing) to reform humanity.
SUGGESTIONS.
(1) Astronomy for Boys.
(2) Notes and Notions (Comic Comment).
(3) A Dicky Bird Society, conducted by Uncle
John.
(4) Ideals (one weekly: “Church,” “Newspaper,”
etc ).
(5) Adventures of a Rolling Stone.
I would be willing to do any other lines. Very
moderate payment. I am 35 years of age, single
and life-abstainer, and mix with all sorts and con-
ditions of people.
The Bulletin bad serious thoughts of
asking “Unde John” to bring along his
“Dicky Bird Society” ; but it meant casting
out the Wild Cat Column —-the two
couldn’t possibly exist in the same
premises. However, if the member of the
♦British Maidens’ Club who has been in
business as a sewing-machine repairer at
Haswell Plough can’t write anything else
for The Bulletin, he can produce an
apnlication that is worth 7s. 6d. And
that’s more than most people can do.
THE BORROWER AND THE LENDER.
“No, Jenkins, never lend umbrellas. Huh!
see those — er — huh—umbrellas over there?
Well — er—huh —every one of 'em—huh—
was lent to me. ”
THE MULTIPLICATION CLASS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We have had examples that warn us. In a country
district there was a church of ours that gave
promise of a great spiritual awakening. Just at
that time a quadrille class was formed, and the
voung farmers were glad of something to relieve
the monotony of their lives. Within 12 months of
the formation of the class 12 children were born out
of wedlock in the district, and the moral lapses
were traced to the influence of the dancing That
sort of thing made them careful.
— Rev. John Adams, Methodist, of Melbourne.
Our young and careless nation
Is so void of population,
For its wooded plains and valleys, and its hills,
That we look to immigration
To relieve the situation ;
But there’s hope of sure salvation
In Quadrilles.
’Tis the dancing brings together
All the birdies of a feather,
And the Jacks they come a-courting giddy Jills ;
Shod with dew-defying leather,
Laughing gaily at the weather,
Couples wander midst the heather
From Quadrilles.
Ah! the maiden agitation,
The poetic palpitation,
The heart-to-heart confessions and the thrills!
Nature offers sweet temptation,
And a newer generation
Owes its subsequent creation
To Quadrilles.
True, the parson grimly glances
At the girls who go to dances,
But their minds ignore the doctrines he instills ;
For they need their brief romances
(Human facts are formed of fancies)
And they get delightful chances
At Quadrilles.
VICTORIA.
O.K.


THE PARTY POLITICIAN’S DREAM.
THE CAT: “Do you remember drowning a kitten some time ago?”
THE PARTY POLITICIAN: “I do!”
THE CAT: “Well, I’m that kitten.”


• In the course of a sermon yesterday
Rev. Dr. Walsh, of the Theistic Church,
advocated eliminating the .word “hell"
from the Bible. The American re-
visers of the Bible, he said, had already
expunged it from the Old Testament,
and the British revisers had explained
that it did not mean a place of tor-
ment. —Cabled Item.
5 oJ
) loiY^e,
If his listeners' could only put a tveek
in at the House Just now, and see what,
was going on, they would wonder
whether he or Mr. Kelly had a feather
to fly with. Truth to say, he had not
many. They were nearly all gone.
(Laughter.)
/Prime CooK
'
(poK one
V/e cv>t“ *be -fo
-fly WJ>-
AViseraMe. Signer-—* If" i c*nt**|>ecf
minion in itje skies,, £< w S <!
tjo Hell to go ”I©where &»n 1
-to live fiet'efcffer’ ?
"IWe /
ofr Sever a, I -fine , , 1
fellow* f&'ir sa.r»M e S ?f Inc.
>\vs+raji* »S bei
//
They had allowed those gentry too
long to trade upon the sacred name of
Labor.
r (JoKeooK "rfU Pvly) *
fooK * fon me S°«l, A . V/e,II f>wt"7«- S^ CKed
oj - [ajbor in om- mey H 'feKe. «S 't’ o ’”
-ffo worKe^cy
lii a country district there was a
church of ours that gave promise of
a great spiritual awakening. Just at
that time a quadrille class was formed,
and the young farmers were glad of
something to relieve the monotony of
their lives. Within 12 months of the
formation of the class 12 children were
born out of wedlock in the district, 1
and the moral lapses were traced to the
influence of the dancing.
( Remaps °j
pKowtineWt"
Araus ft«l%a^Wy(io
Austral 12\n$V.— \d be
qyer $o rnucli obn^ed
tfo«M ffanA m*cW>b ble^s^+v
We ao'fc SnorToy njode 15 for irWig^^s.
s&srsss*-
u*»o Aus^?aJ»^l he||>
altitude fur |
I SW
j n CricKet', &c o^-
~lh« M.C:-"C,e»+l« n»cn > .
your farthers
Clide.. "
MOSTLY SIN AND POLITICS.


Mart : n’s Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. Ladies recommend
them. Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
'
Mr. Storekeeper, Mr. Miller, Mr. Seedsman, are-
you aware that Smiths Ltd. are making calico and
hessian bags suitable for your requirements ? Smiths
print these bags in any number of colors ; they are
anxious to obtain your business ; they can save you
mpney' on your bag account; and are anxious to 1
get in touch with you. They will send you a sample
■'bag for purposes of comparison, duly printed, if
you to desire. If courteous service and utmost value
at bedrock prices appeal to you, then write to the-
“ Bag specialists,” T. Smith Ltd., Sussex Street,,
Sydney.*
GASPING FOR BREATH.
“Several times we nearly lost our son Bert with
croup, for he was choking and gasping for breath,”
writes Mr. P. Balmer, draper, Launceston, Tas.,
“and I have had to get up in the night and go for
a bottle of Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy. After a
good dose of this wonderful remedy there would be a
marvellous difference in Bert, and I have never
known one bottle to fail to completely cure him.”*
GAELIC
WHISKY
(Tho Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST or QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY.
HATS.
For
DURABILITY,
EVERY DAY
f more people ere proving tfcef
is the best washing preparation (° r
blankets, flannels, woollens and dain.y
fabrics. Lux is scientific in its methods.
Lux coaxes rather than forces the dir
from the clothes, hux shortens the
work at the washtu'o— lengthens the
life of the clothes.
WON’T
shrink
WOOLLENS.
r
\ 11
LEVER BROTHERS
LIMITED, svone .
PERSONAL
ITEMS
SPENCE , of the N.S.W. Bowling Ass.
The will pf,“Dr.*’ E. H. T. Bottrell, the
pioneer .medical quack, Whose history was
given ,a couple of weeks ago, has been proved
iu Sydney at £77,617. Excepting a legacy
of £5OO to his solicitor, the estate is left to
the family of the deceased.
From a Western pressman:—
Even if Henry Chinn wasn’t much of an engineer,
he might have pulled through but for his abominably
rude manners. Reporters in search of information
were hooted out of his office, and it was indicated
that only editors should approach the great man.
The newspapers therefore gave him cold steel, and
described him, as he showed himself —with many
failings and no apparent virtues. Added to all this,
O'Malley called him “Brother,” and boasted of his
prowess as a pugilist. When O’Malley sings a
man’s praises, he subtracts 75 per cent, of his real
value; and this left poor Chinn too small a margin to
work on.
The Rev. Cherub Bevan, formerly of Mel-
boure and now of Adelaide, possesses a rare
literary treasure—four volumes of MS.
records covering many centuries of the his-
tory of Exeter Cathedral (England). He
acquired them quite honestly from a dealer,
but a description of them in the Adelaide
papers has caused a stir in Exeter. The
Express and Echo of the little city
(26/7/T3) talks darkly of “carrying the
matter further,” and says: “It would cer-
tainly be a serious thing if the facts prove
to be as stated. The hope will be general
that they are not.” What is the exact quan-
tity of boiling oil allotted to. the offence of
being in possession of a mediaeval cathedral
record which the cathedral hadn’t sense
enough to hang on to?
THAT “ GOLDENY" EFFECT I
PATRON (who has just parted with 85 guineas,
but who is still a little bit doubtful):
"And you are quite sure that THAT is the
effect you wanted?”
ARTIST: “ Quite!"
“M,” on the fringe of the peerage:—
The Viscount Wolmer who has been gaining art
easy notoriety lately by getting into “holts” (in the
newspapers) with the fiery little Welshman, Lloyd
George, provides a very good example of how close
the Cold Country still is to the feudal system. Wol-
mer is the eldest son of the Earl of Selborne (who-
was a member of the last Tory Cabinet, and, later,.
High Commissioner in S’Africa), but is otherwise
perfectly innocuous. His career at Oxford was re-
markable for nothing but unsuccessful efforts to be-
come President of the Union. Almost as soon as he
went down from Oxford, however, he was presented
to a Lancashire constituency, which dutifully re-
turned him at the 1910 general election. He was-
then only 23 years old. His younger brother, R. S.
Palmer, has the brains of the family. Their con-
nection with the Cecils (the Cecil family is a King
Charles’s head to Lloyd George) is through their
mother, who is a sister of the present Marquess of
Salisbury. The first Selborne Earl (Wolmer’s grand-
father) was a Successful lawyer who became Lord
Chancellor, and rather an able one at that. Wolmer
did not inherit too much of his ability. Yet a con-
stituency can generally be found for any Earl’s son
who prefers politics to the attractions of the Em-
pire promenade.
Gone on her last journey, Mrs. Donald
Cameron, of Lowestoft (Tas.), aged 82, and
just back from Europe. She was a well-
known figure in Hobart Society, and a
woman who did things in
a land where very many
things are left undone. A
great tripper across the
world, she usually fetched
back something of inter-
est to stockbreeders. In
particular, she did mucn
to improve the strain of
Jersey cattle in Tas-
mania. She was also in-
terested in birds (she
introduced pheasants
and other varieties of
“game”) and dogs.
Colonel Cameron, of the
S’African war and the
Australian Senate, and
Norman Cameron, who
held the balance of power
last session in Tasmanian politics, are sons;
of hers.
Frederic Chappie, who has been head-
master of Prince Alfred College, Adelaide,
for 37 years, retires shortly. Four of his
sons and two of his daughters are graduates
of Adelaide University, while three of the
sons have also graduated at Cambridge.
The little bit of flummery which the
N.S.W. Full Court allowed itself when it
welcomed various members of the British
Parliamentary party to the bar of the State
recalls that the first barristers admitted to
practise in N. S. Wales were W. C. Went-
worth and Robert Wardell, Ltd. _ Both had
practised in England. Chief Justice Forbes
nodded them in, and didn’t make any fuss
about it either.
“T. 0.1.”: A Sydney daily recently pub-
lished an article on the Borough of Wool-
lahra, giving a long history of the present
Government House, Cranbrook. Mention
was made of James White, of racing fame,
who lived there, but not one word was said
about the pioneer who built the mansion—a
pioneer who was a big man, politically, soci-
ally and commercially. He was Cantain
Robert Towns, of Towns and Co. When
Cowper wanted to flood the. Legislative
Council, which had then .only a few weeks to
live, the President (Burton) resigned, and
Bobby Towns, calling out “Follow the
leader,” led the Opposition out of the Cham-
ber. The object of the flooding of the Coun-
cil on that occasion was to pass the Robert-
son Land Bill.
Maoriland is exporting brains as well as
butter. Some time ago the Hartford, New-
baven and New York Railway Company of-
fered 10,000 dollars for the best invention
calculated to control che speed of trains
whose drivers have lost their memories, or
•gone to sleep, and passed signals fixed against
them. Of -1554 dodges submitted from all
parts of the earth, only fiVe per cent, were
found to be at all like the goods wanted, and
the five was at last reduced to two, one of
which is the invention of W. T. Ashton,
machinist at the Egmont Box Company’s
mill, Ohutu, M.L. If Ashton doesn’t win the
HJ.S. “dollars,” his invention will be a dead
*efl.e>rihant on his hands in louland. There,
wheai a train bolts, the driver merely runs
sahea-d to the next station and has her side-
-tracked on arrival.
“F.H.” asks us to consider Norman Bayles,
Ticjtarian M.L.A., and Toorak’s only Parlia-
mentarian :
A youngish, mincing sort of person, with an
aide-de-camp’s moustache, a simper when applauded,
a pair of fluttery hands, and speech like cracked
ice shaken in a thin tumbler. The general impres-
sion he gives you is that his real name is Eric
Eauntlerov. Addressing a meeting at the Malvern
Town Hall prior to the last State elections, he
caused screams of laughter bv reading a letter re-
ceived from Watt, now Premier. “I wrote to Mr.
Watt,” burbled Norman, “and this is what I wrote:
‘Dear Willie.’ ” He got no further for a while.
When the noise subsided, the orator went on with the
letter, and then read Watt’s reply. The latter began
'with “Dear Norman.” More joyous uproar—at which
Norman giggled, and fluttered his hands, and giggled
some more. Hastily rising the other day to prove
his loyalty to Home and Mother, he referred to an
alleged statement of a “disloyal” member to the
•effect that he “never removed his hat when the
■National Anthem was being played.” Norpian: “If
he had said that in the hearing of my father, he
-would have had no inclination to sit down when the
'Anthem was being played.” It is one of
Norman’s habits to drag in his noor old parent in
the most unnecessary manner. When he was elected
-member for Toorak, he almost went as he offered up
thanks from the balcony of the Malvern Town Hall,
telling them that he deeply regretted that his d-dear
■old d-dad was not 'there to witness his triumph.
Norman’s departed dad is a card be loves to play,
, and he has played him so often that the old fellow
is getting quite frayed at the edges.
RICHARD
ECKHOLD,
the Wagnerian
conductor of the
Quinlan orchestra.
Tlie Rev. Dr. Fitchett has been lecturing
at the Vic. National Gallery on “The Litera-
ture of the Great War.” For a parson and
an apostle of peace, the Rev. Fidget has an
extraordinary literary craving for blood-
shed. Most of his books deal with dead bodies
and sudden death. His muse would appear
to fee a turbulent Amazon, with a torch in
one hand and a pig-sticker in the other,
inadequately disguised in a pastor’s coat and
■choker. What is this man doing as a meek
and lowly Follower? He should be a gun
designer for Ivrupp’s, or the leading spirit
at a thriving slaughter-house.
“Inver O.” sees Willis in the distance-
Henry Willis, back on the floor of the NSw
Assembly, is conspicuous for skill in that art on
BOLTON , New General
Secretary of the W. A.
Chamber of Mines.
which, as Speaker
he used to jump »
heavily when it was
used by any other
member—the art of
dodging- the Speak-
ers rulings and get-
ting in forbidden
matter. He knows
the Standing Orders
backwards, forwards
and sideways ; he can
find precedents as
pasily as a doctor
can explain away a
misadventure in the
operating room; he
has the nerve of a
company promoter
and the impassive
calm of the Chow
proprietor of a pak-
a-pu lottery. When
the House howls at
some particularly
audacious sally, as
the House has' done
several times lately,
Willis pauses com-
placently ; apo ] 0 .
Rises with grace and
dignity for the loud
and unseemly be-
havior of certain
members, on the
ground that thev are
a shrieking rabble
and know no better:
and then goes
quietly on with what
he started to say.
After he has been
told about nine times
that he must not
drag the Lieut.-
Governor into the
debate, mustn’t even
mention him, he
hands that person-
age a metaphoric
plunk on the jaw,
assures hi m, the
House and the world
at large that that’s
nothing to what’s
coming; reassures
the Leader of the
Opposition that he
(Wade) is a lunatic; bows graciously to the Chair,
and sits down. Thereafter he smiles tolerantly
under a volley of vituperation. He’s some manipu-
lator, is Willis.
Jeremiah Melbourne, age 91, has just died
in the city that happened to bear his name.
For t>3 years Jeremiah was a leader in the
Christian Israelite Sanctuary, Fitzroy, where
the men have their long hair tucked up and
the women are in bonnets. In his- spare time
he was a stonemason. He was a trusty
associate' of John Wroe, the leader of the
Christian Israelites, Beardies or Wroeites.
John, who was the successor of Johanna
Southcotte. lived for some time at Fitzroy,
and his following was moneyed enough
to build for him Melbourne House, at Ash-
ton, Yorkshire (England). It seems the
New Jerusalem was to be somewhere about
there. Fisher, the “Nunawading Messiah,”
tried to get the succession to Wroe, but was
foiled by Jeremiah Melbourne and the rest.
So he founded the Church of the First Born,
with 120 men and women, incorporating the
theories of Christianity. Spiritualism and
Mormonism. That sect is dead, but the
Christian Israelite Church still flourishes in
moderation. One notable of the creed used
to be conspicuous in Sydney, but on a cer-
tain evil, wet and slippery day he stepped
by accident on his hair, and fell, and broke
his neck.
By way of a send-off: —
G.' M. Prendergast, who has just quitted the Vic.
Parliamentary Labor leadership, is an Adelaide man
bv birth. He saw light there in 1854. As a two-year-
old, however, he was at the “Commercial-stree
rush” in Stawell (Vic.), whither 60,000 people had
made their wav. His parents rushed there, and took him
with them. It was at Stawell that he got his school-
ing. Next, in the office of the neighboring I uusam
Creek News, he learned his trade —he is a compost
tor. The editor of the Nfavs at the time was thf
well-known literary man, N. IV. Swan, the t rl ® a
Henry Kingsley when Kingsley was m Australia
When Prendergast became a competent comp. n<
went to the Ballarat Star, where H. R. Nichoiis
was editor and manager. In 18i9 Pren. moved
the Sydney Daily Telegraph, which Angus Mackav
of Sandhurst, had founded in York and Barrac
streets. .1. M. Lynch was editor; and Watkn
Wynne, from the Melbourne Daily Telegraph, .
then, as he is now, manager. Poor Lynch was
for some years before his death, but worked <.
manfully with the help of an amanuensis.- J,
Sydney Telegraph went to King-street, Prende „<■
went 'with it. Later on, he was on the b. m
Herald, under Dr. Garran as editor and Hugh Georg
as manager. Then he hurried to the Governmen
Printing Office and the, Narandera Argus, and
turned "to Melbourne after eight years atone
grafted for four years in a private printing offl i -> 8
nine months on the Commonweal, a Melbourn
Labor paper. Next, he_ was for a tin
Worker, printed then m the interest
shearers. His first fight for a seat in Pari amen
was against Zox and 1 rank Stuart, - y or f
bourne; but, of course, that was ho P ele and j
Melbourne in 1894 was easier: he won the
there still.
THE IMPERVIOUS ICEBERG.
[For The Bulletin.]
Mr. Greenwood (Pakenham) observed that what-
ever shafts were aimed at Mr. Irvine, he vvould re-
ceive them on his manly breast (cheers) and they
would fall dead at his feet. (Loud cheers.)
—Press report.
I saw him stand, a Polar man,
Cold anger in his frigid eye,
Facing a wild, unruly clan
Who poised their fiery shafts on high.
Strangely, his very coldness fed
The angry flame ’gainst such as he ;
For in his wintry face they read
Antarctic immobility.
The niveous hauteur of that face
Bespoke the brumal inner man ;
And, in its chill hyemal grace,
His pose was quite Siberian.
His and hibernal gaze
Seemed like twin icicles to strike.
The whole man was, in many ways,
Peculiarly cucumber-like.
Ilis algid and unruffled brow
Gleamed frostily, and, as he eyed
His raging foes, he seemed, I vow,
Gelidity personified.
His Greenland bosom bulged with pride:
A manly bosom ’twas withal—
And, as he breathed, with glacial glide
I watched his waistcoat rise and fall.
I marked the arctic arrogance
With which he faced his foemen bold.
Bleak was his mien ; clay-cold his glance.
Some vowed his very feet were cold.
I saw his savage foemen poise
Their fiery javelins on high.
(They made a fearful lot of noise.)
“Slay! Slay the Iceberg!” was the cry.
.And then, as by a single hand
Propelled, I saw the keen shafts fly,
And on that manly bosom land.
“This is his funeral,” thought I.
Nay, by my halidame! What’s this?
Upon his breast the hot shafts beat,
But with a fierce and baffled hiss
Drop all innocuous at his feet.
Unscathed he stood, the Man of Ice.
Each shaft, with torrid anger fired,
Just spluttered feebly once or twice,
Then ignominiously expired.
One look he gave them, that was all—
It made his shiv’ring foemen feel
That wintry blasts swept through the hall—
Then turned on his hyemal heel.
One word he spake, one icy word —-
No man among them stood exempt—
It froze each listener who heard
With hyperborean contempt.
It froze them with its brumal blast;
Like avalanches there it rang.
Then through the door he calmly passed,
And banged it with a snow-clad bang.
So, frigidly, he won the day.
And, when the blizzard blast was o’er,
Lo, nought remained to mark the fray
But shafts, deceased, upon the floor.
And, as I passed into the night,
I heard one baffled foe aver :
“ ’Tis sheer futility to fight
An iceberg with a lucifer!”
VICTORIA.
DEN.


.
‘
?##■' *
W%
•
/
■
m
%
m
a
•*; :
r
ai
ml
&
r
$&
(
A
ai
f
r
€
f*
- l5 >
RanKs Amongst the World’s Highest Grades.
Rich
Full
Mild
One 2oz. Tin of "CHAMPION ” FLAKE CUT or
MIXTURE, will prove the claim.
THE OF PEACE AND QUALITY
LMN
400
pipe G Uarantee(l
; <
wrr
\LMN


TO STOREKEEPERS
Why Carry Large Stocks of Single Cylinder Double Acting Power Pumps, when we can deliver
one or one dozen as you order from our stock?
Write to use for prices on the DEANE Model A., Single Cylinder Double Acting Power Pumps,
with Brass-lined Cylinders.
AGENTS in every State. If not in stock in your State, apply to—
SIMPSON BROTHERS, 32«34 Clarence Street, Sydney.
COUNTRY AGENTS REQUIRED.
Steam Turbines coupled to Dynamos, Alternators, Pumps, Blowers, Fans, etc.
The Original Inventors of Parsons' Type.
C. A. PARSONS 8 CO.. Newcastle-on-Tyiw,
HAVE SUPPLIED OVER 60,000 B.H.P. OF TURBINES IN AUSTRALIA ALONE.
Sole Australasian WILLIAM ADAMS (gt, COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents— Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Pert*>«_
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Swallow and Ariell, Ltd. (Melbourne'),
manufacturers of foodstuffs
» Added Reserves
to Re- (Nomi-
April, Profits. Dividends, serves. nal).
1902 . . £15,883 3J p.c. =£5,473 £10,410 £45,121
Loss.
1903 . . 4,097 Nil *• 41,024
1904 . . 15,420 Nil 25,604
Profits.
1905 . . 10,658 Nil 10,658 36,262
1906 .. 12,140 = 1,824 10,316 46,578
1907 .. 12,209 2i „ „ 3,648 8,561 55,139
1908 .. 2,234 21 „ „ ,3,648 53,725
1909 . . 9,696 21 „ „ 3,648 6,048 59,773
1910 .. 12,167 3§ ~ „ 5,473 6,694 66,467
1911 .. . 17,169 5* „ „ 8,209 8,960 75,42.7
1912 . . 24,454 6 2-3 ~ 10,054 14,420 89,8*7
1913 .. 15,769 74 „ „ 11,214 4,655 94,402
“And please don’t misrepresent us, as usual,’’ says
the secretary, forwarding- the accounts in response
to a belated application. Well, this paper doesnlt
want to. Swallow and Ariell, Ltd., is a good old
institution which has done a lot for Australian
industry ; hence this paper is full of sympathy as it
approaches the operating table. But the sympathy
doesn’t last. Twenty-five years ago this co. was
formed; yet still taking its lead among the assets
is this entry: “Original purchase at cost from’ the
firm of Swallow and Ariell of freehold land, build-
ings, machinery, plant, etc., including goodwill,
£148,500.” Frankly, among the accounts of com-
panies of as good repute as Swallow and Ariell, The
Bulletin can’t recall a more unsatisfactory item
than this.. For 25 years, according to these accounts,
the original assets, including plant and buildings
as well as goodwill, have been kept in at their
original cost, and not one penny has been written
off them to cover depreciation. Additions made since
then are shown separately, and something—though
something that looks extremely moderate—has been
written off these newer assets on account of deprecia-
tion. If off the newer, then why not off the older?
It may be that the freehold land has increased
enormously in value. Very well; then revalue it,
drop it in “at valuation,” and use the increment to
write off the plant which has been long since
worn out and the machinery which has been long since
scrapped; and if there is anything over, use it to
write down the goodwill. For nothing is much
surer than this: If the goodwill is worth £lOO,OOO
to-day, the whole of it is due to the exertions of
the present co., and not to those of the old firm
which departed life 25 years ago. The old firm may
have made splendid cakes in 1880; but if the co.
hadn’t made good cakes during the past 25 years, the
old reputation of Swallow and Ariell wouldn’t be
worth two eggshells to-day. So it is about time
the old goodwill item was attacked. A good oppor-
tunity for a general cleaning-up offered when 20,400
pref. shares were issued during the year to share-
holders at par. They are 6 p.c. cumulative, and
are entitled to share with ordinaries in any division
beyond 6 pc. There is a fine, solid backing for the
capital of this issue, and the dividend prospects are
likewise good. The extra capital was certainly
wanted, for the co.’s pretty heavy debts have been
growing steadily as the business has expanded:—-
Liabilities.
„ 1905. 1911. 1912. 1913.
Capital . . £145,953 £145,953 £145,953 £157,578
Overdraft . . 46,875 46,943 70,343 67,061
Mortgages, etc. 16,512 12,080 12,080 12,080
Other debts . . 11,844 21,030 39,694 41,815
Assets.
Original pur-
chase . . 148,500 148,500 148,500 148,500
Other properties 28,756 39,602 57,214 71,657
Book debts . . 25,470 36,781 44,421 48,567
Stock . . 54,542 80,802 113,181 109,’940
Cash 178 308 71 176
Profits are very irregular, and in the years of the
last big’ drought, when the co.’s supplies were extra-
costly, they were changed into a considerable loss;
nevertheless in the past 10 years a profit of £53,378
has been made in excess of the average dividend of
slightly over 34 p.c.; and £53,378 is equal to
another 34 p.c. Whether that profit is net —that is to
say, whether enough has been written off to cover
depreciation—it is not possible to say from the
(Published accounts. The reserves, it will be noticed
: are described as nominal. That, of course, is because
,of the inclusion of the hypothetical goodwill asset and
■because also “buildings, machinery and plant,” pur-
chased 25 years ago, are still taken credit for at
their original cost. There may be some real re-
serves; in other words, the tangible net assets mav
-now exceed the capital. But one can say nothing
. about this until the accounts are presented in a
,different form.
The Farmers’ Co-operative Association
<qr Canterbury (M.L.) :
Unex-
plained
Addi-
Bonus Writ- tions
'Visible toCus- ten to Re- Re-
’May, Brofirs. Dividends, turners. Off. serves, serves.
1903.. £16,632 9J p.c. =£6185 £7,240 £466 £250 £32,389
1904.. 18,747 9 „ „ 5868 6,758 1548 31,932
.'July,
1905.. 22;53® 8J „ „ 6560 11,039 590 93 36,375
1 1906.. 22,035 10 „ „ 6606 10,148 949 113 40 820
1907.. 27,031 10 ~ „ 7126 11,867 621 1,299 4T530
11908.. 26,758 8 ~ ~ 9250 11,825 1364 11,297 65,153
New sharapremiums, £233 65 386
Total Div.
and Bonus.
■1909.. 52.;592j® P- c - Pref-1 2 8,i 2 4 i 863 _ 67 091
New share premiums, £167 .. .. 68,158
0910.. 38,366 ] 9 P- ( 0 [ 31,974 868 - 73,682
New share premiums, £2852 .. .. 76,534
r 1911.. 47,871 ] p ' c - 36,642 2094 - 85,669
New share premiums, £7277 .. .. 92,946
81912.. 50,259-J 37,565 J6S4 _ 103,956
New share premiums, £1154 .. .. 105,110
11913.. 55,3211 | 4 P ; C ‘ o r r^ f ; } ? 2072 - ?
It’s an unsatisfactory way of putting it; but it’s the
best that can be done with the raw materiaL
In ordinary circumstances it would be possible to
compute the amount of dividend, even if the bonus
to customers had to be guessed at; but in this
case capital is being got in pretty continuously, and
as there is always a certain amount which carries
the dividend for only part of the year, the total
can’t be arrived at definitely. All that
can be said is that the 6 p.c. dividend
on the £150,000 of pref. capital will take £9000;
the ordinary-div. will call for about £13,600; and,
on a rough calculation, the various bonuses will
absorb £22,600. This will give £8049 to carry for-
ward, and will bring the reserves to £113,159. The
bonus may be a bit over-estimated, in which case,
of course, the reserves are understated.
The co. does all the usual business of a farmers’
co-operative co. It handles practically all that the
farmer produces for sale, and sells him practically
all his trade requisites. Of course this means money
—money for merchandise stock, and money for ad-
vances against consignments, etc. Fortunately, how-
ever, the co. hasn’t been starved of capital like the
corresponding S. Australian co. and some others, and,
partly no doubt on that account, it has been able
to show consistently good profits. Dividends have,
moreover, been kept down reasonably, so, besides
the capital, there is a decent reserve fund to work
on. The bonus varies; on purchases of merchandise
shareholders get as a rule 5 p.c. discount, and up
to SO p.c. rebate of commissions. Twelve years’
history is summarised in the next comparison:—
Liabilities.
1901. 1911. 1912. 1913.
Capital . . £60,988 £239,272 £308,382 £313,000
Deposits . . 74,199 208,423 206,391 242,967
Other liabilities 81,611 192,556 213,390 251,480
Assets.
Advances . . 99,523 285,456 302,806 351,011
Stock . . . . 81,066 173,761 175,207 233,902
Freeholds, etc. 33,824 112,146 120,908 132,630
Book debts . . 30,883 123,630 171*861 200,729
Cash . . . . 11,947 52,139 74,844 27,825
Capital and reserves amount to, say, £425,000.
Liabilities total £494,447. The liabilities are thus
not at all excessive for this class of business, especi-
ally as more than half of them consist of amounts
to the credit of customers’ accounts—balances owing
on sales made on behalf of clients, and represented
on the other side mostly by book debts and cash.
No doubt there are risks in the business ; still, in a
fairly safe district, the farmer can put up better
security than almost any borrower in ordinary
, trade. Certainly a fool can lend too much on land,
ajjd make, tremendous losses thereby; but that’s bad
management, and over a long spell of years this co.
has dope so consistently well that it evidently
hasp’,t got that sort of management.
_ *
The -S. ' Airs. Farmers’ Go-operative
Uni-on, Ltd. {Adelaide): —
To Re- Re-
June, Loss. Dividends. serve's. serves.
1907 .. .. £6OB
Deficit.
1908 .. £6,692 ttil 6,084
Profit. Reserves.-
1909 . . £20,364 6 p.c. = £lBB9 £18,475 12,391
Loss. Deficit.
1910 . . 18,649 Nil 6,258
Profit. Reserves.
1911 . . 15,649 6 p.c. = 2302 13,347 7,089
1912 . . 22,187 10 „ „ 4186 18,001 25,090
1913 . . 2,942 7 ~ ~ 3200 24,832
When this co. was 20 years old it had a deficit of
£6084. That is to say, very nearly one-third of its
then capital had disappeared. Since then, though it
managed in one year to make a loss equal to more
than one-half of its capital at the time, it has struck
patches of the other kind of luck, and has £24,832
of a surplus. Or rather it had or believed it had that
muclf on June 30 ; what it has now may be another
matter. Wheat-dealing is the trouble. The co. is a
co-operative concern in a sense; but the wheat farmer
whose stuff has mostly to be sold in Europe—in
prolific seasons, anyway—won’t or can’t wait till the
slow trains have gradually, shifted the stuff to port
and the slow ships have gradually shifted it on to
London or Liverpool. The co. has to buy straight
out, as a rule; and though it may sell in London
the. next day, there is so much gambling in this
business that even then heavy losses or profits may
very easily be made. Four or five years ago Clement
Giles, who had been a director and one of the main-
stays of the co,, was sent to England to handle the
wheat business there—really to guess what the market
was going to be like to-morrow and the day after
and the month after that. It may be on this account
that, though Giles's first year in London showed a
heavy loss, there has been a run of three profitable
years since. Considering the risks of the business
and the turnover, the capital was far too small, and
efforts to get in more money had poor results. Lat-
terly, no doubt largely because of the fat profits
in 1911 and 1912, money has been more plentiful,
and £50,585 is now paid up; but that isn’t half
enough. As at June 30 the co. owed £300,295 on
various accounts, and against that it held wheat,
produce, hills, etc. It is now 25 years old; and a
co. which has to borrow or owe so much money in
order to hold stocks liable to such fluctuations, and
take the other risks of the wheat trade, ought at
that age to have a reserve fund of £lOO,OOO. The
Bulletin doesn’t know why it hasn’t got £lOO,OOO.
Probably because the competition in the business is
too keen. Still, a tidy reserve should by this time
have been built up out of the other business of the
co. ; and that there was less than no reserve at all a
few years ago seems fair proof that the wheat busi-
ness had been on the whole very unprofitable. Things
may be better now ; still this paper has grave doubts
whether a co. of this sort should touch wheat at all
except on strictly co-operative, non-speculative lines,
hven if it dropped this part of the business, sup-
posing it absolutely can’t be worked on true co-
operative lines, there would still be plenty of jobs
for the co. to do —especially in the supply of corn-
sacks, manures and other merchandise, and in hand-
ling wool, skins and stock, for which the buyers are
on the spot.
* * * *
The Civil Service Co-operative So-
ciety of N.S.W., Ltd. (Sydney):—
Dividend (10 p.c.)
and Bonus on
Net Purchases To Re- Re-
Profits. (10 p.c.). serves. serves.
Jan., 1906.. £8,925 £7,751 £1174 £26,006
July., 1906 . . 8,062 6,995 1067 27,073
(Hi p.c. Bonus.)
Jan., 1907.. 9,138 8,298 840 27,913
July, 1907 . . 8,809 8,251 558 28,471
Jan., 4908 . . 9,298 9,034 264 28,735
July, 1908 . . 9,697 9,043 654 29,385
Jan., 1909 . . 10,507 9,970 537 29,926
July, 1909 ... 9,388 9,531 29,783
Jan., 1910.. 11,864 10,401 1463 31,246
July, 1910 .. 10,272 9,763 509 31,755
Jan., 1911.. 12,082 10,477 1605 33,360
July, 1911.. 10,911 10,108 803 34,163
Jan., 1912 . . 12,824 11,383 1441 . 35 604
July, 1912 .. 10,470 11,138 34,936
(10 p.c. Bonus.)
Jan., 1913.. 11,170 11,222 34,884
July, 1913 . . 10,983 10,563 420 35,304
The reserves are really more than that. During the
past half-year some further £1 shares were offered
to shareholders at £1 premium, and the balance-
sheet shows this item: “New capital and reserve
subscribed to date, £22,210.” Fortunately the
High Court the other day blew out the preposterous
claim of the Queensland income-tax people that
premiums paid to a co. for its shares were profit
liable to income-tax, so there is no reason now why
capital and premium shouldn’t be separated in these
accounts. Allowing that the new capital proper is
£11,105, the total stands at £24,989 —amazingly
little for a concern doing such a business as “the
Stores.” Here you get a view of the turnover and
a few other things:—
Gross
Profit Work- Proportion
Cash on Sales, ing Ex- Expenses
Receipts. etc. penses. to Receipts.
Jan., 1900 .. £67,522 £15,997 £10,158 15.04 p c
Jan., 1905.. 98,408 24,165 14,974 15 22 •
Jan., 1910.. 133,247 34,643 21,181 15.90 ”
July, 1910 . . 126,780 32,600 20,272 15 99 ’
Jan., 1911 . . 139,740 35,976 21,953 15 71 ’
July, 1911.. 136,860 36,362 .23,174 16 93 ’
Jan., 1912 .. 154,713 40,956 25,810 16.68 ”
July, 1912.. 155,178 41,593 28,786 18.55 „
Jan., 1913 .. 180,604 47.847 34,270 18 97
July, 1913.. 169,905 45,707 32,280 18.99 ~’
The prompt-cash sale is, of course, the king-pin of
the business ; at July 31 customers’ debits amounted
to only £8751, owing, no doubt, mainly on the com-
paratively few monthly accounts. The discount
allowed on these accounts is 9d. in the £ ; on cash
purchases the discount was formerly 2s. 3d., but, on
account of increased costs, it has now been brought
down to 2s. Even that seems a shade too much to
pay, since it allows of a very poor lay-by. No doubt
for general purposes a small addition to reserves is
sufficient in a case of this kind, inasmuch as there
are no bad debts to provide for, and practically no
investments to protect. Still, a reserve is a handy
thing to have about the premises, and especially
handy in a quickly growing business, which wants
not only to increase its stock, but also to pay cash
for that stock and get every penny of discount it
can lay its hands on, so that, in their turn, share-
holder-customers may have every penny of discount
that cash trading will yield. As a of fact,
trade has moved along a bit too fast for the C.O.D.
principles of the co., wherefore one way and another
it owes now £36,591, whereas 10 years ago it owed
only £24,116 ; and this despite two small' increases
of capital since 1903. The co. could, in fact, have
done very well with larger payments to its reserve
all the time it was handing out its too-lordlv ,2s. 3d.
in the £. The co. owns no freehold, but has put a
good deal of money into property held on a long
lease. These items (irrespective 0f... furniture and
fittings) stand at £20,975, and are being steadily
and properly reduced, the profit thus applied being
used to wipe out a mortgage ( £12,250) on the
leasehold. In the first table, by the way, it has been
assumed that £425 of the bonuses on purchases will
not be collected. As a rule, it works out to about
that much.
The Downs Co-operative Dairy Co.
(Toowoomba, Q.)
Bonus Writ-
to Sup- ten Re-
Profits. Dividends, pliers. Off. serves.
Dec., ’07.. £1746 £245 £1721
June, ’OB.. 1537 6 p.c. = £252 £839 1216 951
Dec., ’OB 787 208 1530
June, ’O9 .. 1074 6 „ 283 1368 213 740
Dec., ’09.. 1364 215‘ 1889
Forfeited shares, £7B . . . . 1967
June, ’lO.. 2397 6 p.c. = 326 1858 227 1953
Dec., ’lO.. 1226 277 2902
June, ’ll . . 2765 6 „ „ 405 1452 394 3416
Dec., ’ll . . 1489 418 4487
June, T 2 .. 531 6 „ „ 437 445 4136
Dec., ’12.. 1596 544 5188
June, T 3 . . 3800 6 „ „ 507 1918 526 6037
The Bulletin hadn’t proceeded far into the ;in-
nards of this co.’s accounts before it got a shock;
the directors had actually used £lOOO of profit in
1908 to reduce an overdraft, and had then done the
correct thing by writing down assets to make the
accounts square. This paper’s subsequent explora-
tion was therefore proceeded with in a friendly
spirit, and nothing whatever was discovered to turn
that spirit sour. Certainly the co.’s overdraft has
grown, but it is still not burdensome-; it amounted
to £5015 on June 30, and other liabilities totalled
£74lB—together £12,433. On the other side, apart
from three factory premises, machinery, and such
fixed assets, the co. had at that date £5115 in cash,
£5284 in book debts and £3581 in stock—together
£13,980. Right through, premises, plant, etc.,
have, been kept very well written down to cover de-
preciation, so that the co. with a present capital of
£8445 has probably more than the surplus or re-
serves of £6037 mentioned above. Moderate bonuses
have been paid to ,the suppliers; but they are ap-
parently not such a "greedy and short-sighted lot as
many alleged co-operators are —they haven’t insisted
on grabbing every available penny of surplus profits,
but. have permitted the co. to get into a strong
position. This, of course, not only allows the co. to
do more for the industry and for shareholders, but
also gives the suppliers a valuable guarantee that
no ordinary disaster will affect future payments.
Altogether it is one of the most cheerful and satis-
factory histories supplied by any co-operative butter
co. in Australia.
The Castlemaine Brewery and Quin-
lan, Gray and Co., Ltd. (Brisbane) :
Nomi-
Added nal
Written to Re- Re-
Julv, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1901 .. £9,538 Nil £22,863 £1,250
1902 .. 9,026 Nil —£9026 10,276
1903 .. 7,499 5 p.c. =£3750 3749 14,025
1904 .. 4,311 5 ~ „ 3750 561 14,586
1905 .. 3,983 5 „ „ 3855 128 14,714
1906 . . 4,177 5 „ „ 3855 322 15,036
1907 . . 5,025 5 „ „ 3855 1170 16,206
1908 . . 5,106 5 „ „ 3855 1251 17,457
1909 .. 6,369 5 „ „ 3857 2512' 19,969
1910 .. 7.478 5 „ „ 3857 3621 23,590
1911 . . 7,329 5 „ „ 3960 3369 26,959
1912 . . 15.667 „ „ 5989 9678 36,637
1913 . . 10,057 10 „ „ 7920 2137 38,774
Visible profits, which took a big jump in 1911-12,
fell away again during the past year; and the old
explanation is given—incrSised costs. The position
is simply that for a while -this co. got an advantage
from higher wages and more abundant work without
having to pay out its own share of higher wages,
etc. Now what it will have to look forward to is
this: when work becomes less abundant and the
beer-purchasing power of the State falls, the higher
wages will still have to be paid by this co. for a
while at least. So, just as the 1912 profits were
abnormally high, the time will come when under
opposite conditions they will be abnormally low; and
many other trading concerns will find themselves in
the same boat. Meantime, however, the handful of
beer-manufacturers in Brisbane have come to an
honorable understanding with the object of passing
on some of the extra cost. They fought like Kil-
kenny cats a while ago, but all is peace now.
This, like every other Brisbane brewery, got into
trouble during Queensland’s last big borrowing
boom, and found itself loaded with assets at such
inflated values that when sanity returned and a
re-valuation was made, about half the Capital had
to be written off. Even then the co. was none too
sure that it had got to rock-bottom; wherefore it
dropped dividends altogether, and when it resumed
them did things modestly. The result is partly
shown by this :
1903. 1912. 1913.
Liabilities.. .. .. £73,222 £67,589 £59,797
Stock and other liquid assets 61,203 85,080 74,764
Excess liabilities .. .. £12,019
Surplus £17,491 £14,967
Certainly in bringing about this change' some help
has been got from the sale of hotels ; on the other
hand, a good deal of money has been put into brew-
ery premises and plant. A general view can be
got from this comparison:—
1900. 1910. 1911. 1912. 1913.
£ £ £ £ ■£
Capital . . 150,075 77,147 77,272 77,272
Liabilities (less
cash balances) 111,613 60,751 59,970 60,097 57,651
Premises, plant,
etc... .. 141,535 90,965 83,196 86,776 96,436
Hotels .. 57,165 15,700 14,700 13,700 8,700
Stocks and
debtors . . 76,809 59,202 68,333 77,588 72,617
Revenue . . 33,358 29,601 29,280 33,273 28,788
Expenses ..• 22,377 22,026 21,950 17,606 18,193
The hotel property has been almost all cleared out
—a wise thing, no doubt, especially in these days
when the Cold Water lion goes up and down seeking
liquor licenses to devour. But if he devours licenses
and shuts hotels, he doesn’t make much progress in
reducing the thirst for beer; so the outlook for the
co. that sticks to the brewery business and doesn’t
speculate in pubs might be a lot gloomier. There
are 150,000 shares in the co., all of 12s. 6d., about
20,000 of them fully paid and the rest, with a few
exceptions, paid to 10s. Nominally, the reserves are
now equal to just half of the capital, which ought
to mean that there is 15s. of assets for each 10s.
share. Unfortunately this paper can’t b P ~
that, though inasmuch as goodwill is lumpeV
premises, plant, barrels and other rolling stnnl I th
and the size of this intangible make-weight u tc ' ’
hinted at. The profit is all right now (tho *h ZS
1912 the accounts hadn’t for many Vearssh ntl
enough to pay the present 10 p.c. div)- hnt.T'l
something more is known about goodwill the -
ble security for the principal which one might &
must remain in doubt. 8 invest
Standard Mutual Building Sociptv
(Melbourne) : cutty
Profit on Writ-
Property ten R
Profits. Sales. Dividends. Off. serves
Jan,, 1906.. 1869 441 6 p.c.= 1434 17< £.
July, 1906.. 1789 ~317 7$ „ „ 1752 200 u, S
Jan., 1907.. 2087; 581 7* „ 1752 is’???
July, 1907.. 1958 313 7J „ „ 1752 150 18 68?
Jan., 1908.. 1952- 288 7$ „ „ 1752 o'?
July, 1908.. 2102 753 8 ~,,1912 700 19 'm
Jan., 1909.. 2009 379 8 „ „ 1912 q
July, 1909.. 2211 161 8 „ „ 1912 ini?!
Jan., 1910.. 2319 294 8 „ „ 1912 pint,
July, 1910.. 2233 1239 8 „ „ 1912 501 22 111
Jan., 1911.. 2342 1043 8 „ „ 1912
July, 1911.. 2626 1710 8 „ „ 1912 Ifi’nns
Jan., 1912.. 2714 2956 9J „ „ 2231 29 4?-
July, 1912.. 3132 859 8 „ ~.2294 31
£9560 Reserves transferred to Capital 21 r. 07
Jan., 1913.. 3038 486 8 p c.= 2294 22 814
July, 1913.. 3237 122 8 „ „ 2294 23379
Like most of them, this co. got its lesson after the
boom, when securitjes were thrown on its hands
wholesale. It nursed the properties as long as it
decently could without formally counting up its
losses ; then it re-valued them, and wrote off about
half of its capital to make good the deficiency As
it happened, the re-valuation was made when the
tide was well out; and when it started to come
back again in 1905 or thereabouts, it brought some
flotsam with it. This is shown as “profit on pro-
perty sales”—really surpluses over the written-down
values. As these surpluses accumulated, some of
the written-off capital was restored, which was a
reasonable thing to do. There is not much of the
old wreckage left, .so not a great deal further can
be expected from surpluses; the total now is only
£15,947 —little more than one-fifth of what the
society had on hand when the re-valuation was com-
pleted in 1901. As the properties have been sold
new advances have been made. This shows the
movements: —
July, July, Jan., July,
1901. 1912. 1913. 1913.
Liabilities £37,015 £42,244 £40,950 £3B 657
Advances.. .. ."19,998 105,317 106,509 105,957
Foreclosures .. *-72,305 17,990 16,744 15 947
Cash, etc. .. 2,778 171 163 ’284
The liabilities consist mainly of deposits; but the
society is doing vfery little new business in that way,
either because the money isn’t available or because
the directors are not satisfied that they can safely
lend other people's money on the security of pro-
perties at their present high values. So long as the
society can make its present excellent profits while
guaranteeing so little of other people’s money, share-
holders may reckon themselves very lucky; not many
other concerns in this line of business can do it.
And, of course, it is a very pleasant position for
-Such depositors as there are, for they have the
satisfaction of holding a first mortgage on assets
worth more than three times the debt.
b* * * * *
Williamstown Gas Co. (Vic.) :
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £ £
June, 1905.. 1321 8 p.c.= 1000 250 71 6,175
Dec., 1905.. 1357 9 „ „ 1125 230 2 6,177
June, 1906.. 1519 9 „ ~ 1125 250 144 6,321
Dec., 1906.. 1787 9 „ ~ 1125 350 312 6,633
June, 1907. 1653 9 ~ ~ 1125 250 278 6,911
Dec., 1907.'. 1894 10 ~ „ 1250 350 294 7,205
June, 1908.. 1860 10 „ „ 1250 350 260 7,465
Dec., 1908.. 1923 10 ~ ~ 1250 250 423 7,888
June, 1909.. 2213 10 „,, 1250 963 8,851
Dec., 1909.. 2152 10 „,, 1250 902 9,753
June, 1910.. 2204 10 „ „ 1250 954 10,707
Dec., 1910.. 2273 10 „,, 1250 1023 11,730
June, 1911.. 2543 10 „ „ 1250 1293 13,023
Dec., 1911.. 2946 10 „ „ 1250 1696 14,719
June, 1912.. 3265 10 „,, 1250 2015 16,734
Dec., 1912.. 3301 10 „ „ 1250 2051 18,785
June, 1913.. 3220 10 ~ ,- 1250 1970 20,755
Having constructed the tabJe, The Bulletin con-
fesses that it doesn’t think much of the job. Of the
alleged profits made the past year (£6521),
£4021 has nominally beet! added to reserves; and
these additions are dispospcf as follows; To depre-
ciation fund (for works on leasehold), £700; to
general renewal fund, £2720; to meter renewal
fund, £7OO. Total, £4120, which means that it
has been necessary to draw on the other reserves
(consisting of unappropriated profit) to the extent
of £99. In other, words, if it has been necessary
to make these appropriations to special reserves in
order to counterbalance depreciation, then the net
profits have fallen £99 short of the 10 pc. div., and
instead of the true reserves being added to, they
have been actually drawn upon during the year.
Apparently nothing is written off against deprecia-
tion ; these reserves are the only set-off against that
wear and tear. Certainly the balance-sheet says—
“ Mains and services at cost (less depreciation),” but
this apparently means, “Mains and services at cost
(less depreciation written off to December, 1908),”
which is a very different thing. From another point
of view the business looks a trifle better:—
June, 1908. June, 1913.
Liabilities .. .. £2,677 £4,979
Fixed assets . . . . 30,751 43,483
Liquid assets . . . . 5,579 8,651
Thus in five years the surplus of more or lees liquid
assets has been rather better than maintained, and
about £13,000 of revenue has been put into pro-
perty and plant, most of it nominally as a set-off
against depreciation. There is no telling for cer-
tain, but it looks like an ample provision. _ As for
the future, it is now a foregone conclusion that
Victorian gas cos. will be put under much the
same restraint as those of Great Britain have been
under for many years, and as the principal ones in
N. S. Wales have been since this year started. It
may be that for a start the standards as to price,
dividends, etc., will be made to apply to only one
or two big cos. ; but that must affect the others,
too, for once they do what the cos. which are under
restraint are not allowed to do, there will inevitably
be an outcry to bring the lot under the Act.
* * * *
Amalgamated Zinc (De Bavay’s), Ltd-
incorporated on September 1, 1909, to acquire the
zinc-flotation business of De Bavay’s Treatment Co.
at Broken Hill: — ' .
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
Apl., 1910.. £28.816 Nil £28,816
Oct., 1910.. 43,390 Nil 72.206
June, 1911.. 98.302 22 J p.c. = £75,000 95.508
Dec., 1911.. 122,291 20 „ ~ 50,000 167,(99
June, 1912.. 95,375 30 ~ ~ 75,000 £7,349 180,825
Dec., 1912.. 151,909 25 ~ „ 62,500 26,010 244,224
June, 1913.. 89,367 40 ~ ~100,000 1,881 231,710
De Bavay was a Melbourne brewery chemist who, w
common with some other chemists, worked on
the suggestion that certain metals might be
separated from their gangue by fine grinding ana
subsequent flotation. The crushed stuff is mixed witn
water, and oil (eucalyptus oil is now used) ana
acid are introduced. The pulp is agitated; the acia
attacks the metal particle, and forms a balloon, witn
the particle as the passenger-basket underneath; aua
the oil helps the ascent. The metal, risen to the
top, is floated off as a froth. Hence the term flota-
tion process, or, as it is sometimes called, the frotn-
ing or scum process. There was plenty of money
behind De Bavay ; the brewery people stood to him.


The Pacific Cable Board
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, GERMANY, etc.
New Direct Cable to Auckland from Board’s
Sydney Office opened December, 1912.
A Week,.'End rate is now available between
Great Britain and Australasia. Rate 9d. per
Word with minimum of 18s. (24 words).
IVeek End Cable Letters are accepted up to
midnight on Saturday for delivery in Great
Britain on the following Tuesday morning.
TARIFF PER WORD
Great Britain . .
Germany
New Zealand . .
Canada
U.S.A
Argentine, Brazil, \
Chili and Peru f
"West Indies, Central
rates on application.
Cable Forms, Deferred and Week
Regulations may be obtained at
5/81 2/101
America and other
End
THE pacific cable board,
77 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1340 (3 lines).
408 Collins Street. Melbourne. Tel. 2SBB.
J. MILWARD, Manager in the Pacific,
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
$
Established 34 Years.
THE Trustees, Executors
and Agency Co., Ltd.,
412 Collins St., Melbourne.
The Company acts as
EXECUTOR,
ADMINISTRATOR,
TRUSTEE,
AGENT.
Estates Administered Exceed £25,000,000.
Please call or write for Pamphlet.
JAS. BORROWMAN, General Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Manager.
A great mistake, when erecting new works or re-
arranging old ones, is often made in constructing the
building and installing machinery ere looking round
for means of transport of the raw material, half-
manufactured and finished goods. Messrs. Adolf
Bleichert and Co., of London, have issued various
catalogues and leaflets, illustrating and describing a
few of the many transport systems and plants which
they have supplied, and which show the solution of
the transport question and the advantages of em-
ploying such appliances. W. and J. Lempriere,
Melbourne and Sydney, are the Australian representa-
tives, and would be pleased to hear from those in-
terested. A specially trained engineer is retained to
consult and advise.*
* * * *
Mine managers and engineers contemplating Re-
inforced concrete construction should write 'for par
ticulars of the Indented Steel Bar, which gives the
greatest bond, and is the strongest and cheapest re-
inforcement on the market. Used by the N. S.
Wales and Queensland railways for bridges, by the
Sydney Water and Sewerage Board for elevated re-
servoirs, by the N. S. Wales Government Architect,
and by all the leading architects. Should guaranteed
designs be required for concrete structures, our ex-
pert will be pleased to furnish plans and descrip-
tions. Apply, Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.*
For rapid and accurate sizing of samples, the
Hoover Rapid Laboratory Sizer is unsurpassed. An
ordinary hand, test over 12 different mesh screens
takes about 10 hours to complete, the Hoover Sizer
will make the same test in about half an hour. By
the use of one of theSe Sizers the saving in time
would, in a very short while, cover the small initial
cost of the machine. The machine can be dressed
with any series of screens. The Austral Otis Eng.
Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, will be pleased to furnish
particulars.* [4
Extract from The Insurance Record, London, Sep-
tember 22, 1911: “To have written insurances for
£5,550,000 (Ordinary, Industrial and Accident) in
a year was marked by the keenest competition
from beginning to end, is an achievement which
proves that the Colonial Mutual is a force to be
reckoned with in every sphere to which its influence
extends. ’*
* * * ■»
PIONEER WOOD PIPE, used in and around the
mine, means a direct saving, cost of installation is
minimised, as also the cost of upkeep, for Wood
Pipe is not subject to the action of acids, minerals
or sulphur fumes. Catalogue from The Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., 57 York Street, Sydney
(Head Office).*
Tlie Goulburn Municipal Council, after exhaustive
inquiries, have decided to install two 128 8.H.P.-
“Hornsby” Suction Gas Engines and Plants, as the
motive power for their electric supply (in competi-
tion with all classes of engines and boilers), thus
following the example set by a number of towns in
Australasia and other parts of the world, which have
already installed the “Hornsby,” with highly favor-
able results. Intending purchasers of motive power
should apply to R. HORNSBY & SONS, LTD., Sid-
ney, Melbourne and Brisbane.*
Harringtons Ltd. are now in a position to quote
the lowest fees for all kinds of assay, analytical and
metallurgical work. Expert advice on ore treatment,
smelting, bullion, refining, etc. This firm have now
a most up-to-date and completely fitted laboratory,
directed by a first-class analyst from Johnson and
Sons, London, assayers to the Bank of England,
H.M. Mint, The Council of India, etc. Any work of
the above nature entrusted to this reliable firm of
photographic manufacturers will receive immediate
and prompt attention. For full particulars and
prices apply to Harringtons Ltd., 380 George Street,
Sydney.*
J. W. STYLES & SON. Machinery Auctioneers,
Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 361 Collins
Street (main entrance), Melbourne. (J. W. Styles,
24 years expert salesman.)*
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.*
Messrs. Mephan Ferguson Proprietary, Limited, of
Footscray, Victoria, have secured the contract for
the supply of steel pipes required in connection with
the duplication of the Bombay Water Supply. The
contract amounts to over £226,000, and the pipes
to be used are of the locking bar type, of which Mr.
Mephan Ferguson is the inventor and patentee.
Engineers will be interested to note that this Aus-
tralian invention has been adopted in preference to
other classes of piping, after critical and searching
inquiries as to the merits of the various types of
water pipes made in the world. It is worthy of
note that all machinery required to carry out this
work has been designed and manufactured at. the
firm’s Footscray Engineering Works, and will be
shipped to Bombay, where the pipes will be manu-
factured.*
* * * *
The H.M.A.S. Australia, about to arrive on our
coast, is fitted entirely with Babpock and Wilcox
Water-tube Boilers, similar to the H.M.S. New Zea-
land and other Dreadnoughts recently built for the
Admiralty.* '
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collis6n & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Assayers, Mine Managers and Prospectors write
to H. B. Silberberg and Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, and at Melbourne, for particulars concerning
mining requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s
disc pulverisers to 200 mesh; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospectors’ balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles: chemicles; etc.*
NOBEL-CLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Mortobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Also, the Baillieus, who had been interested in the
Zinc Corporation at an earlier stage, transferred their
affections to De Bavay, and a co. was formed to run
a mill. There was a lot of experimenting to be
done; when it had been finished this co. was formed
to run new works, the first unit of which was started
in March, 1910. Meantime, good contracts had been
made with the B. H. North and B. H. South for the
supply of zinc-bearing tailings.
It has been an amazingly profitable business during
the past 24 years, thanks largely to exceptional metal
prices. In the first half of 1911 spelter averaged
£23 14s. 8d ; for the next three terms the average
was £26 11s. 7d., £25 18s. 2d. and £26 8s B<l
Last half-year there was a fall to £24 11s. 5d and
the profits show the result. But the decline of
£62.542 was not altogether due to that. There was
a hold-up of all traffic on the Broken Hill railway
for a fortnight or so while 8000 or 10,000 men
argued whether three or four petty bosses should be
compelled to join the clerks’ union or not. The co
produces a zinc concentrate which it sells to Euro-
pean smelters, and the final adjustment of prices is
not made until some months after the stuff is pro-
duced. The co. takes credit for product not finally
settled for at £22 per ton. Last half-year it got so
much more than £22 that £32,840 fell into the
profits on account of the previous term’s output. This
current half-year, spelter has been below £22 and
at latest it was £2l. This means that in all pro-
bability last half-year’s profits were over-estimated
and consequently the current half-year’s profits will
be diminished by the amount of the over-estimate
If, for the current half-year, the average price should
be £2l, it would mean cutting approximately £ 9150
off this half-year’s profits. Reserves are, however
strong; the greater part of them has been built up
to meet any serious trouble of this kind. Dividends
may therefore not be affected so seriously as might
otherwise be the case. The bulk of these reserves is
liquid: liquid assets on June 30 were £96,127 in
excess of liabilities. These assets do not include
tailings paid for but not treated (496,324 tons
equal to nearly one year’s requirements), nor is
credit, taken for the co.’s interest in Minerals Separa-
tion and De Bavay’s Processes, Ltd., although a
growing revenue is being derived from this source.
* * * *
The old Union Steamship Co. of Maori-
land is dead and a new one is born. A funeral and
a birth offered the simplest way to a majestic bit of
stock-watering, though it is stock-watering of the
least objectionable kind. The co. for some years
prior to 1907 had a paid capital of £800,000;' but
its reserved profits were so large that it then capi-
talised £200,000, and went ahead paying 9 p.c. on
the £1,000,000. And still the reserves went' on
mounting—some of them visible, the rest of them
internal. Lately it was decided that the co. should
transfer another £1,000,000 of these undivided pro-
fits to capital, making the total £2,000,000; but
as the authorised limit of the old co. was £1,000,000
it was resolved to form a brand-new concern, nomi-
nally of £3,000,000 in £1 shares, reserving
1,000,000 to be issued as occasion requires. Thus
the old holders get one new ordinarv share and one
bonus share for every old share. The bonus shares
will carry a 54 p.c. cumulative preference. Says
managing-director Mills: “The increase of capital
will, of course, result in a lower rate of dividend
on the ordinary shares, but the combined dividends
on ordinary and bonus preference shares should cer-
tainly not be less than the customary dividend
hitherto paid.” The average profit for the past 10
years has been £122,700. This includes one or two
transfers of internal reserves to the profit account;
but it does not, of course, include the undisclosed
profits which have been transferred to the internal
reserves. A 54 p.c. div. on the new pref. shares
will call for £55,000. After paying that the aver-
age disclosed profit of the past 10 years would just
about allow of a dividend of 7 p.c. on the ordinary
shares.- There would, however, be nothing left to
add to visible reserves ; and it hasn’t been the co.’s
habit to pinch itself in that fashion. In fact, the
very great success of the co. has been due to the
tenacity with which the management has held to the
policy of moderate dividends, so giving itself big
reserves of undivided profit to be used in extending
the business. Thus in the past five years the div.
has never exceeded 9 p.c. on the £1,000,000 of
capital, equal to p.c. oh the capital as enlarged
to £2,000,000: h, -
In his report on the Carpathia. R. L. Jack
doesn’t indulge in any strenuous adjectives. For
the greater part the elaborate ~statement is a
description of the shafts, and alleged shafts put down
on the property. Some of these tidies, though called
shafts, are mere burrows. Ror instance, No. 3
shaft. It goes down almost - Vertically ■ for 12 or
14ft. Then the lode rolls to the sfcuth-west, and the
shaft, following it, becomes mow. like; a drive for
a few feet. At -about 40ft. the stone jgot very rich, t
and the alleged shaft accordingly opened out 'into
a chamber 9ft-. x 9ft. This, by the way, has'bedn
called “development work”-—there have been marly
humorists at Ardlethan.
The three statements of most value in the long
report may be put this way: (1) There are no ore
reserves-—that is, no ore has been exposed on three
sides. The shafts and burrows are in ore mostly.
Whether the ore goes back 2in. or 20ft. from the
shafts and burrows nobody knows. Jack gives it as
his “individual opinion,” notwithstanding the
absence of reserves and the impossibility of figuring
closely, that “the mines could easily repay in divi-
dends, from what is already known, the balance of
the capital subscribed, although it is always good
policy to lay aside a large sum for development.”
This, of course, doesn’t say much. The subscribed
capital is £52,035; paid capital only £38,814;
and £12,000 has been already repaid in dividends.
(2) Dr. Jack thinks there are (o) one main lode
running along a crush-zone at the junction of
porphyry and slate; (6) numerous lenses or pipes
in subsidiary fissures; and (c) lodes or lenses in
the porphyry and granite near their junction. (3)
The most important development work done so far
is the drive at the 100 ft. level. From the manager’s
notebook it appears that ttie ore in this bottom
working runs from 1.8 p.c. metallic tin (the low-
est) to 8.5 p.c. (the highest), and averages about
44 pc. Jack’s own samplings gave from one-tenth
of 1 p.c. to 17 p.c. ; but of six samples only the
one was over 5 p.c. This is no doubt payable even
under present conditions, but is a very different
Proposition from the 45 and 55 p.c. ore which has
hitherto been most talked of.
Below the gossan or leached zone the
Occidental, Cobar (N.S.W.), becomes heavily miner-
alised in places. Geologist Andrews, of the N.S.W.
staff, reported on the mine as a smelting proposi-
tion, but regarded the excess of silica as a diffi-
culty. Very silicious ore can, however, be concen-
trated, so there is still a chance that the copper will
lot The . ay erage gold value of the last
should he 4 in^ nS ° f °l e hauled was 8.33dwt., which
the mill good en °ugh to return 28s. per ton from
ancMh^^Jll 11 ?, y ent wrong with the works,
not held ‘%Tnt eta Int ; etln , K cailed for last week was
ins to ‘ U "‘ ore * een . legal difficulties” arose, accord-
The idea , circular cancelling the meeting,
issue of >nrvfv? )eeil oi ; A P ass res °lutions authorising the
be distributed e a. 3s °’> 000 Shares ’ 50 ’ 000 of th «n to
for to t\ ,uted as a bonus straight away, and paid
12s d o w ent -,? f J S ' ® d ’ out of reserves, the other
dentallv an a ?t aid h J the shar eholders in cash. Inci-
• f? pt ™ as to hav e been made at the
Chase of th, H°m Ce } he matter of the proposed pur-
is o 'h Heddon Greta lease. The Heddon Greta
of n ’tt an e d V lf e they want the lease > the
be tot ehean th East „ Greta evidently think it can
thetrnnntf ] Presently. Anyway, they have turned
verv P shmtW t° W ?‘ i meeting is to be called
IhaL* A ly to deal Wlth the distribution of bonus
SSS: t; V new proposal can certainly be made
whffih thP n W plan 18 t 0 declare a dividend,
It b, h ovt shareholder may take in cash or in shares.
tdivirWi fL ey doubtful whether a co. can declare
sharlholdl he r f yment of which is contingent on the
shareholder parting up more capital. Maybe this
was unforeseen legal difficulty.” J
Davies and Kershaw averaged
bOOoz. to the acre at Adelong (N.S.W.) working
Adrians p e m oU p d , ary of the gr ° und now held by th!
“ton?," g u G ° d Estates > the two dredges of ' that
, show " ow rock ln a sea of financial trouble,
it vL. Ut r Wlth ! n lntr oduction from Collins House,
wnn Hu’f faV °/ t 0 ? et s hares - Those that had them
and l hose that didn’t have them
they Yv 6re hard used - Since those happy
trouhlJ Tb a H here ha ? been a Perfect peck of
.I l Th ® dredges cost more than was thought,
9 n top of a debenture issue of £15,000
S?” 16 . a float of 10,000 new shares at 20s. each.
No 1 dredge struck a bar which was fatal to young
ambitions. No. 2 seems to have hit pug and stuck
there. W ith another debenture instalment due in
December, and plant to be kept up and paid for,
the piper had to play again. The tune this time
s an increase of shares from 20s. to 255. each, at
least 2s. per share being called ; and for once the
holders of the watered shares will have to part up.
Watered shares will be a trouble, even when the
dredges get to steady work. Throughout it has
been a case of too much top-hamper.
Principal Westralian results for August:
Revenue. Profit. Value.
T , Tonnage. £ £ per ton.
ivanhoe . . 20,843 38,033 14,003 36/5
Great Boulder . . 19,010 48,228 25,305 50/9
Sons of Gwalia .. 13,975 21,695 6,085 31/-
Golden Horseshoe 28,157 36,970 3,795 26/3
Bullfinch Prop. .. 5,252 14,968 9,309 57/-
Lake View & Star 18,442 21,397 3,621 23/2
Oroya Links . . 12,450 13,447 1,725 21/7
Yuanmi .. .. 10,700 17,432 4,243 32/7
Associated .. 11,475 12,956 912 22/7
Kalgurli . . . . 11,010 21,366 9,253 38/9
Associated Northern 8,804 8,401 1,958* 19/1
South Kalgurli . . 9,660 10,185 970 21/1
Great Fingall .. 5,311 10,676 190 40/2
Boulder Perseverance 21,809 20,228 2,962 18/6
Golden Ridge .. 2,932 4,653 1,000 31/9
Corinthian North . . 2,094 1,418 f 13/6
Boulder No. 1 . . 2,682{ 2,097 1,357 15/8
Mountain Queen . . 3,496 4,461 934 25/6
Queen of the Hills 4,001 7,412 3,561 37/-
Mararoa .. .. 2,715 4,997 1,628 36/9
Edna May.. .. 1,116 4,005 1,813 71/9
Fenian . . . . 2,745 7,766 56/7
Burbanks Main Lode 1,975 4,420 575 44/9
Ida H 1,426 4,768 228 66/10
Commodore . . 730 1,215 320 33/3
Lake View Consols 8,106§ 1,571 457 3/10
Menzies Consolidated 2,125 3,687 92 34/8
Golden Butterfly .. 1,180 1,105|| 3 18/9
including £540 profit derived from Kalgoorlie
lease. fßesidues of a gross value of £2142 stacked
for future treatment. {Old tailings from the Long
Reef dump, Lennonville. §Retreated residues at
Lake View mine. | [Exclusive of cyanide return.
8., M. and Co. have their option eye on the
Sirdar, at Boogardie (W.A.). A big lode is visible
in the property, and values are alleged to average
405., or thereabouts. The shaft is, however, only a
little over 100 ft. deep, and while lodes often go
down values more often don’t. And they haven’t
shown any special eagerness to do so in the Boogardie
district.
o * * * *
The local inspector of mines reports that
the creep in the Associated Northern’s Ora Banda
show has been stopped. He thinks that so long as
the No. 2 level stopes are left alone no further
movement towards the shaft need be anticipated,
and he adds that the working of these stopes can be
considered later. The co. is pegging away at the
No. 5 level, and is still hopeful, and occasionally
sanguine, of picking up the continuation of the
rich stuff met with in the east end of the No. 4
level. At this depth values in the east drive ranged
from a few shillings to £5 for the first 40-odd ft.,
and averaged for that distance £2 per ton. From
there to 61ft. the grade was 755., and from 61ft. to
95ft. it was £4. Then came a sweetening patch,
which for some distance averaged between £lO and
£l2 per ton. From 32ft. to 113 ft. at the No. 5
level values have varied from £2 16s. to £4 55.,
and by some experts this is taken to mean that
the sweetening stuff does not last in depth.
Optimistic whoop from Yilgarn (W.A.) :
During 1911 the gold output from this field was
18,5960 z., and for 1912 it totalled 30,9320 z. This
•year, with four months still to go, it amounts to
over -51,0000 z., and it will average nearly 12,0000 z. a
month before the year ends. Bullfinch Prop., Moun-
tain Queen, Edna May and Corinthian North are at
present the chief sources of production, and with
the cyanide plant about to start a substantial in-
crease" may be looked for from the last-named almost
right away. Bullfinch’s profits are at present being
earned chiefly from the northern and southern makes
of ore, and "very little stuff has so far come from
the remnants of the original rich shoot.
Word is flashed from London that Golden
Horseshoe is on the sve of rejoining the list of divi-
dend payers. At the meeting in May the chairman
said there was every prospect of an early distribu-
tion, and since then it. has been whispered that the
co. was straining every nerve to pay out ss, a share
before the end of the year. On December 31 last
there was a cash balance of £35,602, and since then
profits have amounted to some £26,000. It would
take (including English and Australian div. duties)
£90,000 to make a ss. distribution.
Adelaide is credited with having raised
£l2OO to test the old Chaffinch lease at Bullfinch
(W.A.). The northern-lode series in the Proprie-
tary looks like trending into the Chaffinch, and
those who have found the money are gambling on
the chance of the drill striking good values at depth.
Gwalia Consolidated (W.A.) is being
growled at for wanting further exemption. The
community which once mostly depended on the mine
for a living, and is hanging on in the hope that it
already had t h r d ° ag i aln > sa . vs that the co. has
d donJ fr h , d th years „ res P lte from labor con-
?“ 1 ° ns * the P ur ')ose of experimenting with ore-
have been pr ° C f SSe , S ’ and this ter >u is considered to
wL \ q > ,te , lor f enough. The co.’s enemies
dpclarc K™ 11 - 18 loafing and living on tributors, and
f * c plenty ot oxidised ore it could dig
that aft tr6at j. l * felt so inclined. The trouble is
that after spending enough money to build a Dread-
?ta U s?o’ the Co ' finds ltself without cash and up to
its eyes in experiments which decline to do anything
but hover on the border of success.
, W N ; Williams, manager of the Edna May
(W.A.), has been countering those who hold that,
because gramte bars have made a sick bird of the
(n am rich, on the same line of country, only a short
dt ls , rn iront of the Edna May. Williams’s rather
remarkable idea is that the granite intrusions are
responsible for the gold. Much more important is
it that the ore should average the expected 80s. per
tol i' e last crushing tapped out under the ounce,
and the most woolly-headed enthusiast won’t keep
warm if the expectations are watered down to that
extent, even though there be 6dwt. in the tailings
to draw on when a plant is available. So far,
manager Williams has got on all right with his shaft,
ana it the bottom isn’t troublesome he will soon
be able to talk about the 150 ft. Above the 73ft.
level the co. has 12 months’ ore in sight—-a good deal
less than the old florid estimate that bumped scrip
towards the fifties.
Hampden Cloncurry (Q.) isn’t happy,
and hasn t been happy for some time. When the
mines had undergone a careful preparation to enable
them to give the smelters a pretty good run, the big
new plant started in to chew up the reserves, and a
meteoric career was predicted. But discouraging
things happened, and the share market evidently ex-
pects more immediately ahead, for shares have fallen
five or six shillings in as many days. An official
report is issued by the co. to calm public fears, which
variously centre round the ore reserves, and the
working of the plant, and the water supply. But
the public distrustfully sniffs at the diplomatic ad-
missions. It never before was taken into the co.’s
confidence, and now feels strange. Well, there may be
no serious difficulty with the smelting plant, and
there may be nothing serious about the shortage of
water supply. Also, there may be the 255,000 tons
ot ore containing 25,000 tons of copper. How the
reserves are made up the last half-yearlv report
didn t reveal, so curiosity about the supplies of
basic ore can’t be satisfied. But the Cloncurry dis-
trlct is not too liberal with this needful commodity.
At first, the Hampden reckoned on a self-fluxing
mixture of Hampden and Duchess ore, but last half-
year the furnace charge contained over 30 p.c. barren
flux. The basic ore wasn’t as basic as it was thought
to be, so it mightn’t be as extensive, either. A co.
that has to scratch along, as this one has, to keep
out of debt, and to partly keep its promises, as a
rule does not start to treat its low-grade ore for
choice, unless that low-grade ore has some other
particular quality to recommend it. Last half-
year the extraction grade of all the ore treated was
11.7 p.c. copper, and under these conditions each ton
of copper produced cost £4B. As it contained £3 in
gold as well, the profit, with copper at £6O, was
£l5 per ton. The present reserves average about
10 p.c. copper, of which only nine-tenths at most
would be extractable. There is a big difference, in
the profit, between 11.7 p.c. and 9 p.c. ore; but
even allowing a profit of £l5, the copper in the
reserves would be worth £384,000, or under 225.
per share. If the basic ore gives out, any costs
might happen.
* * * *
Charters Towers has been enlivened by a
development in Kelly’s Queen Block, which reported
a new 3ft. make of “well mineralised stone” in a
footwall crosscut from No. 1 level on the St. George
reef (657 ft. vertical). Kelly’s last crushing gave
a disappointing average of 575. per ton. For six
months the total return was £1834 from 484 tons,
which did not pay expenses; hence Id. calls have
been regular. In view of this development the direc-
tors considerately extended the time limit for the
payment of arrears. Kelly’s has also a lease on the
Moonstone reef, but, generally speaking, Moonstone
developments have been disappointing.
Charters Towers can no longer claim an
average of loz. per ton. During eight months of
this year 18 mines crushed 53,188 tons for £173,110.
The local market gives the highest value
( £100,000) to Mills’ United (300,000 shares at
6s. Bd.). New Brilliant Freehold and the Brilliant
Deeps both carry 150,000 shares. At the moment
the Freehold is the favorite at about 9s. 6d., which
is the highest quotation on the Towers exchange. A
flat make of stone on the hanging-wall side of , No. 5
level has been proved for a distance of 136 ft. on the
underlay, and what is supposed to be a continuation
of this reef has been picked up in a crosscut- from
No. 6. No trial crushing has yet been taken from
it, and “fairly mineralised stone” is too indefinite a
description to trade on to any extent.
# * * *
Mammoth Copper (N.Q.) will start
another smelting campaign in October. Traction
engines will carry the matte to Mungana. Three of
the vehicles are in use and three more have been
purchased. The 160 ft. level is in 336 ft. south of
the shaft; the last sampling over a width of 29in.
gave 14.6 p.c. copper—further proof that in the
Mammoth the Glasgow-Australian co. has got hold
of a sound little mine.
There is really no need to be poor. A
Northern circular says that the Bowen River Coal
Co. (2000 shares of £1 each) “appears to have
struck a general junction of coal seams, and it is
only a question of time when this will be one of the
biggest coalfields of Australia.... Anthracite coal has
lately been found, and the seam has been named the
Bowen. Sinking is now being carried out to pick
up this seam, which is 17ft. wide, at a depth of
50ft.” And the shares in the wonder are worth
only 50s. Perhaps it’s all true; all the same, the
results of a few more borings would be very wel-
come.
If he can materialise various contemplated
additions and improvements to the plant, W. H.
Link, from Daylesford, now in charge of Sloan and
Scotchman’s, Stawell (Vic.), has hopes of making
the mine pay dividends. The one striking feature
of Sloan’s, so far, has been its consistent abstinence
from the dividend-yielding habit; so, if the new
hope is realised, the local populace will regard the
present manager as a link that was missing too long.
Mount Jasper (Tas.) is the show that
Frank Powell long since blasted with an arctic
breath. Nevertheless it is blooming again under the
nurturing care of the Millses, the Connors and the
Bryans; it would be easier to permanently blast
Home Rule than their faith in the Jasper. Its mis-
sion now is to furnish enough profits to put up a
plant for the Mount Stewart mine, as well as to de-
velop four lodes on a modest block of 681 acres.
Copper ore developed in the Jasper “old find” is put
at 20,000 tons ; but until a comprehensive sampling
is done it would be unwise to count on these reserves
yielding the capital the co. wants. The “new find”
is more quartzy than jaspery. It consists of a for-
mation 30ft. wide, carrying patches and veins of
rich ore; but so far the extent of the rich stuff
disclosed doesn’t justify shareholders in adding a
chauffeur to their household retinue. Why, too,
should it be necessary to talk of 12 to 20 p.c. ore
as “solid metal” ? This latest lot of hot air is
produced because of the sale of 90 tons for a profit
of £ll per ton, and because £9 per ton was netted
from 61 tons taken from the Heazlewood lode. Scraps
like these are pretty, but they don’t make a jnine.
The ore in the Tasmanian Copper Co.’s
mine (Tas.) is heavily charged with zinc in the sul-
phide zone. There is a contract with the Tasmanian
Metals Extraction 00., but that concern has taken
only small quantities, owing to the difficulty of
roasting the refractory stuff in the Merton furnaces.
In three months to the end of July, 3175 tons were
despatched for a return to the mining co. of £3BBO.
las. Metals Extraction is a cut above concentration
for export; its aim is to produce zinc oxide, which
is a step nearer spelter. The Bulletin's blessing
goes with it; for it is quite time Australia woke
up to the fact that it can produce its own zinc and
lead paints.
Bully Kitten: Know nothing against the
scheme; but we can’t recommend any investments.
....Prospector: Send a representative sample (about
31b. weight) to either The Bulletin office or
I‘ rancis H. Snow, 9 Bridge-street, Sydney, and you’ll
be told then where you are likely to treat half-
ton or more to best effect.
T. H. Martyn. of the Malay Peninsula
Syndicate, got quickly off the mark in securing tin
leases in Malaya. He has secured one area, and is
sampling five others, and his long Australian experi-
ence will back up any business he does with the
North.


NIPPED IN THE BUD.
A Cold, Cough or Influenza can be nipped in the
bud by a few doses of Dr. Sheldon’s New D'scovery
for Coughs and Colds. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s. Obtain-
able everywhere.*
Under
Royal
Warrant
ToH.M.
George V
CHAMPAGNE
[harlesHeidsieck
WMIWB
CHAMPAG**
QfcrJeslleidsied t
Heims
w.v.v.
■.WAV.
f y'
FARMER'S
SYDNEY
SPECIAL
THEATRE DIMMER
EVERY fPI DAY EVEtllflG
TABLE DTIOTE 4/s
tnTRAtICE - CENTRAL PITT 5T DOORS
ELEVATOR A> FIFTH FLOOR
BUCHANAN’S
, ,isO ' - .
Black White.
A GRAND SPIRIT
“ Black & White ” is indeed a “ grand spirit.
Matured for years in Scotland before shipment.
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, September 22, 1913.
My Dear Arini, —
Social revels want a master of ceremony
or a perpetual A.D.C. in waiting to comb
out the tangles that knot them up in one or
two places. After a tame winter, October
is going to break out in a mad whirl of
gaiety that is likely to knock out the most
seasoned Society campaigners. Nearly every-
thing in the way of an extra that can hap-
pen will occur about the same minute —or
next day. The Australia and Sydney follow
the old'lmperial plan of striking this port
for race week. They’re careless enough to
pick on October 4, when a section of the
community wants to air its new clothes at
Randwick, as the day on which they will
loaf up the harbor.
The first week in the month of roses is so
full of Australian warships, race meetings,
private dances, matrons’ hop in the. Pad-
dington Town Hall, Mayoral reception in
the Town Barn, harbor illuminations, more
races, more dances, etc., that plain citizens
will have to climb up Venetian poles
to get a fair notion of what is actually
bitting them all over at the same time.
October 7 is earmarked for a dance at
Government House by way of how d’you do
to the new naval frills.
The silverware this town is going to hand
over to its namesake Sydney is to be, the
chief item of the civic welcome to our new
war boats. On that occasion Mayor Cocks
will be draped in rabbit-skin and entirely
surrounded by gold chains almost large
enough to hold the Sydney to her moorings.
He will be an affable island in a sea of
jewellery. This will give you some idea of
the majestic preparations that are now
raging round our municipal stronghold.
The conversazione has recently been
raging with great vigor in this important
centre of civilisation. It is a revival of a
favorite mid-Victorian dissipation, and is
associated with champagne shoulders, san-
dal shoes, ringlets and the rest of the outfit
of the times which were adorned by Aug-
ustus Snodgrass, also Winkle, Tupman and
the Infant Phenomenon. The person in-
vited to a conversazione is presumably
chosen for his or her conversational ability
to drown any musical item that fights for a
hearing. Mrs. Cecil Youl rounded up many
leisured stragglers from the Apple Island to
conversaz. in the King’s Hall the other
afternoon.
A hearty dust-laying shower fell on the
R.A. Society's roof on the evening of its
conversazione in those compressed air apart-
ments. President Lister Lister, G. W. Had-
field and E. Oxnard Smith were in charge.
On the walls the most attractive lady pres-
ent was Christine Silver, “Taking a call.”
You can almost see the footlights flicker on
Christine’s charming face, and she looked
a sure winner for a place in the National
Gallery. But the event didn’t come off—
possibly the picture ran stiff or something
of the sort—and the artist, George J. Coates,
is still prepared to part with this charmer
for 250 guineas. She is worth all the
money.
Another popular revival is the 1912-13
fashion of a wedding in which the brides
are sisters or chums, and the grooms do as
they are told, and fix up the best men in a
nicely-assorted pair. Two of the Cumming-
Watt sisters were married at the same
time and place the other evening. They
are daughters of squatter Watt, whose flocks
and herds browse on Moree pastures. Mr.
Archie Flood, of an early-settler clan in
this State, married Miss Millie, and Mr.
Charlie Weston was the groom who piloted
Miss Edie Watt down the flower-trimmed
aisle.
The Waddy cricket team is likely to be
surrounded by a following of 50 or 60
N.S.W. trippers, on the deep blue track to
Colombo.
The Alan Carroll Child Study Association
held its annual interview with its balance-
sheet the other evening. Its balance-sheet,
by the way, is officially recorded as only
worth £lB or so. The Players are going to
lend their aid to this slim financial credit.
They’ll try to fatten it up, by presenting
“The Liars” to a large and truthful audience
on the evening of September 25. The
Repertory Theatre (Grosvenor-street) will
be the place.
Mrs. Mayoress Cocks presented the Alex-
andra Hospital authorities with the gifts
dragged from small and willing competitors in
Farmer and Co.’s fashion journal. The
gifts were in kind. Secretary Clarence Moss
probably had a roomy dray tethered to the
nearest post, to rattle the proceeds off the
hospital babes before the eggs began to
chirp, or the flowers to moult. Mrs. Leslie,
of the journal just quoted, was responsible
for prodding the young competitors in the
right place.
The “What to do with our Girls” Exhi-
bition is still demonstrating the amazing
ingenuity of the Australian woman. This
is the third show of the kind the Girls’
Realm Guild has, in the person of organ-
ising sec. Grace Burrows, produced every
other year in our Town Hall. The occa-
sional man who wanders through the
municipal premises at the present moment
wears the chastened expression that natur-
ally characterises a member of the super-
fluous sex. Even when he puts on an
apron and fastens it up with a safety-pin,
he loses his presence of mind in any finan-
cial crisis, and chases dominant woman for
change of a ten-shilling note. Prof. David
tore the show open with a flow of eloquence
on the generally useful tendencies of the
feminine sex —notably as persons with
whom man could not hope to compete in
the domestic virtues. His own experiences
in washing up dishes and darning socks at
the South Pole added point to these remarks.
Down there, according to the heat and
burden of his remarks, mere ineffective man
has to boil his own whale as best he can,
and lay the cloth askew for dinner to the
utmost of his limited ability. The Cullen
lady murmured a firm codicil to the Prof.’s
statement, and heartily approved of the tact-
ful manner in which the Girls’ Guild
pressed the necessary cash into the palms
of needy sisters. Rabbi Cohen having
flung another bouquet at the Australian
girl, the company stamped round to see the
show.
Architect Harry Day is responsible for
the design of the model bungalow in the
Town Hall basement. This has been the
chief attraction in the Girls’ Exhibition.
In its kitchen, open like the rest of this
fibro-cement creation to the public gaze, star
pupils from the Tech. College, under Miss
Gibbes, prepare the evening meal. This is
eaten, in due course, by the hostess of each
event and her seven or eight guests. When
the lions begin to roar at the table, the
curtains of the dining-room are drawn.
This enables the guests to feed themselves
in private. The public is, therefore, unable
to locate the exact crisis at which soup is
stabbed with a fork, or an oyster is dis-
sected with a meat axe. The crowd wan-
dered round the other evening till it dis-
covered a chink at which a few inches of
partially-dined alderman was distinctly
visible. This thrilling spectacle was much
appreciated by about 40 oersons in turn.
The poultry section, with Miss Brace as
hon. fowl expert in charge, signified its
recognition of the opening of the show by
promptly demonstrating the correct way to
lay eggs. Three chicks obligingly hatched
themselves in a “Canberra” incubator about
the same moment. As they tottered out of
their shells, in the presence of a large num-
ber of spectators, they were so overcome'Ry
the excitement of their infantile demonstra-
tion, that they went off in a dead faint for
quite one second.
Miss Lamond, a dairy lady from the
South Coast, is helping to shape the destinies
of buttermilk in the cow section of the
Girls’ Exhibition. Governor Strickland
personally conducted part of his vice-regal
kindergarten on a walking tour round the
show. Daughter Mabel, who cultivates
chickens as a hobby, lost her heart to an
incubator. His Ex., on the other hand,
wasted the treasure of his bright young
affections on a tireless cooker. This friend
of woman is alleged to cook the dinner
while the lady of the house is hanging over
the back fence, or addressing her suburb on
the Real Reasons why they should vote for
Mr. XYZ at the coming elections. Should
she fail to return —till after the elections—
the dinner will probably go on cooking itself,
till a hungry husband and starving family
discover its whereabouts and dig it out,
nicely browned in its own gravy.
The Ladies’ Kennel Club, which is demon-
strating the Dog, plain, poodle and
fancy bullpup, in the Girls Exhibition,
was expected to parade on Saturday after-
noon. Instead of being dragged round the
premises, however, by heavy-weight canines,
the Kennel Club dames kept their darlinvs
on the chain. Two vast bulldogs, who might
have bounded gaily round the building with
a few bonnet strings as their only tow-
ropes, yawned wearily in the faces of ador-
ing women. Mrs. Stopford is president of
this menagerie, which is barking and get-
ting its hair brushed in the Cathedral-side
vestibule of the Town Hall.
Mcllwraith, McEaeharn’s new inter-
state liner Katoomba was dressed in bunt-
ing the other afternoon. About 1200 souls
and bodies had been bidden to the fray,
which consisted of musical items (accom-
panied by the screech of Darling Harbor
steam funnels) and light refreshments.
The Katoomba is something of a leviathan
as a coastal craft, and she carries every-
thing, including passengers, in an unusual
amount of breathing space. A girl-orchestra
is a daring innovation. Singer Mabel Bat-
chelor, fiddlers Kathleen Long and Patricia
of that ilk, with pianist Lilian Cassidy,
will endeavor to cheer the voyager who
feels the same color ,as Maximilian Robes-
pierre, with carefully-assorted selections
while the Katoomba is churning its way
round Australian bights.
Skipper Ned Moodie-Heddle, of the brand
new Katoomba, is a long and decorative
Scot from the Orkney Isles. He is a cousin
of Miss Young Australia Fotheringhame,
and related in the 43rd degree or something
of the kind to the late Traill, of Bulletin
note. Traills, Heddles and Fotheringhames
have been more or less connected ever since
the first fishing fleet lurched up against
those storm-beaten rocks. Skipper Ned’s
eldest brother is the Ileddle of Melsetter,
who is something of a landmark in that
bleak plot of earth.
The Actors' Day Matmee produced a
programme that rolled Her Majesty s cm-
tain up at 1.45 p.m. and nailed it down
about 6 p.m. Snacks of nearly everything,
including two lugubrious recitations, gave
a crowded house an awful lot for its money.
Lewis Waller clothed “The Portrait” with
all the misery it needed. Kay Souper, who
by chance followed later with a rather sim-
ilar form of melancholia, tapped a few
stifled giggles in the gallery. Hamlet, that
well-known Irving reminiscence, was repre-
sented in the third scene of the fourth act,
and Ophelia (Nellie Ferguson) strewed the
stage with brightness from a pinny full of
flowers. Sybil Arundale’s high kicks were
followed by Sybil’s over-worked smile, an
expansive ear-to-ear effect that won’t wash
off. Walter Bentley was the Bishop who
stole the buns in “Kodak” O’Ferrall’s comic
interlude. He looked so plump and rosy
that the little boy in the case (who is a
little girl off the stage) ought to have
howled for a slice of Bishop’s cheek. GernSe
fluttered in to the Hugh Wards’ box. Her
small, tired face was just visible under the
flopping verandah of her turned-down hat.
Later, this chilly sylph maintained a mas-
sive silence on the stage while Titheradge
sold on her behalf an actor’s autograph
photo programme for ten pounds ten shil-
lings. Percy’s cheery chatter would have
run that trifle up to some unknown robbery
of hard cash. As an auctioneer Mrs. Genge
is as helpful as a stuffed robin.
Sheffield, the ancient British lord who
recently whisked his coat tails round our
scenery, was the most inquisitive member of
the party. He hurled questions at the rate
of a quick-fire machine-gun, and often hit
the mark with some accuracy. He was
moderately stunned for half a minute at the
magnificent flow of water that splashed oyer
Leura Falls, while J. Bull, M.P., was gaping
up at it. Sheffield couldn’t understand how
it was that, when oil the adjacent creeks
were dry, tons of water were bolting over one
slab of rock. The old man asked every
question but the right one in this case. If
he’d demanded the exact amount of water in
the swimming baths up above the falls, and
how much Niagara they could make when the
Tourist Department gave the order, “Let
her go,” he’d have been on the right track.
As it was, he probably put the phenomenon
down to the eccentricity of the Australian
Labor party. The worst pun of the age
was made on this occasion. A wholly un-
authorised person got it off his mind in a
whisper. He said: “Waterfall is there, my
countrymen.” Probably he knew that it
wasn’t always there.
Merchant Walter Shakspeare. who mar-
ried a charming Miss Barnes, of this town,
seven or eight years ago, is moving on to
London. The Shakspeares have camped in
Ceylon for some years, where he made a pile
in rubber and tea. Now they’re going to
make their headquarters in the British rain-
fgU •
' Mrs. Sam Lazarus, of Suva, is staying on
the terraced heights of Kirribilli for a while,
pending the. possible advent of merchant
Sam fiom his tropic counting house.
The Orvieto’s purser this trip, Mr. Ingram,
is an amateur musician of some wrist power.
He slams out all the harmony he knows, by
ear, and has an amazing repertoire. The
aesthetic Ingram learnt how to brush his
hair in an English ’Varsity.
Mrs. Donald Brown, of this township, is
hurrying off to Colombo, in the Morea, on
October 4. She means to sample life on
an up-Ceylon plantation, with a daughter
who is married to a tea planter thereabouts,
Fleet Paymaster Treacy has been buzzing
like a whole swarm of bees between this
port and Melbourne, for some weeks. He
is up to his collar in preparations for our
massive welcome to the Australia’s naval
imnmnnwrv
m tt Roptin Hvrinov Ptiv Tihrarlon
Chailes H. Beitie, Sydney City Libianan,
ar ani SnXnfip 8 raft ss
fnfthl SS dead" and
notably the old home and burial-place of
Laohlan Macquarie, in the Isle of Mull, and
in digging up papers relative to the ancient
officials. Mull. I find by the map. is close
to the Isles of Rum, Muck, Eigg and Skye—
where the terriers live.
~ ~ , • f ~
The cable mentions two or three of the
R.A.G.A. now in London as booked to
watch Father Bull s autumn manoeuvres
this week Chief of Ordnhnce Wallace and
the lengthy Colonel Legge will glue their
eyes to field-glasses to witness the British
artillery clank across the Soil. -Colonel
Buckley, formerly. I fancy,' Vic-
torian militia, and now doing useful work
in London, is also amongst the bidden
Ramacciotti, who used tcf belong A'
J.C.W. firm, and is, or was, a mfJtia offiS 6
in this State, is another of the chosen®
Education Inspector Donald Fraser dr™
in “I smile when know-alls tell me that
women have no sense of humor Never i
all the divers experiences of Donald Dinni
and the peregrinations of Pannikin have T
had a more responsive audience than at the
annual teachers’ conversazione the other
evening. It was delightful to play outback
raconteur to them.” s
Mrs. Beatty, the fine, upstanding VO ung
matron who won the ladies’ tennis singles
championship the other day, is the wife nf
Fleet-Surgeon Beatty, R.N. She is a North
Sydney enthusiast who has been a famous
hand at the racquet game ever since she nut
up her back hair.
Guy Hastings, of the Bert Bailey Co has
added an inch or so to his waist belt since
he was first imported from Bull’s Archi-
pelago. He is getting so used to his billet
as Sandy, in ‘‘On Our Selection,” that he
now looks over the boiled collar of his soft
shirt (as worn in that piece, with loose
riding pants) as natural as life. In the
earlv days of the Hastings’ stride through
Australian drama he seemed to be feeling
with his chin for the high linen fence of the
London clerk. Sandy is about 90 per cent
more kangaroo this trip.
The “Old Cremorne” waltz and the
“Moonglide” ditto are two new excuses for
the three-step hop. In the first, Gordon
Davison has written a simple melody suit-
able for the schoolgirl’s technique. In the
second, Reginald Ben.von beats out an at-
tractive waltz tune, which changes its key
as often as a Society damsel changes her
hats. Pedro de Zulueta contributes an in-
offensive intermezzo called “Starlight” to the
one-step movement. Some new songs in
the same consignment include a melodious
trifle by Liza Lehmann, to carry the words
“Oh, bother, sang the thrush.” He only
bothers in three verses. Haydyn Wood and
Dorothy Forster respectively are guilty of
“May in My Garden” and “A Psalm of
Love.” Chappell and Co., Ltd., are the pub-
lishers.
Soprano Amy Murphy is beginning to
hurl her fine voice all over the adjacent
scenery with a reckless disregard to soft
pedals. At the Actors’ Matinde this singer
gave the Waltz Song from “The Chocolate
Soldier,” with the impact of a brass band.
The gallery chortled with delight, and
wanted some more, but the uproar was too
uproarious to tickle sensitive ear-drums.
From Paling’s come a two-step, “Going
Some,” by L. Hardwick ; also a “Dream of
Spring.” The latter, by Agnes Armytage,
is naively described as dance for pianoforte.
“Going Some” is not so breakneck as its
name suggests, and it sits down suddenly
in a massive chord at the terminus, like a
heavy train that arrives at the Central Sta-
tion sooner than it expected. Ella Wheeler
Wilcox, the favorite poetess of the best girl
in the Sunday-school, is responsible for the
skim-milk sentiment that trickles through
the words, “Whatever is—-is Best.” It is
a comfortable sentiment, but a very unfor-
tunate one. If it had been adopted a genera-
tion or two ago the mails between here and
Maoriland would still be carried per ketch.
William Shottoh mercifully introduces a few
sharps into the otherwise flat setting of
Ella’s upward flight in song —“And I know
when my soul speeds onward in its grand
Eternal quest, I shall say, as I look back
earthward, ‘Whatever is—is best.’ ” Poetry
of this buttered-toast species could only
emanate front a lady with a good digestion
and a handsome bank balance.
Another Australian contralto trembles on
the horizon. She is still in the raw, being
too young to have a vote. Her name is
Mary Murphy, and her voice is alleged to
be large enough to take the roof off any care-
lessly built premises. A complimentary
concert to introduce the girl, who is a pupil
of Miss Mary O’Keeffe, occurs on September
30. The Concordia Hall, where this warble
will make the rafters ring, is already booked
to the extent of 500 seats. Little Mrs.
George Earp is in charge of events. A
fund to give the Voice an extensive educa-
tion is to be hatched next month.
Musician Arundel Orchard, who waves his
baton over Liedertafel voices, has been
blazing a small, neat trail for “Ring of the
Nibelung.” His lecturettes, in the Kings
Hall, are intended to plough up the average
intelligence so that it can be planted with
Wagner from 6 p.m. to midnight for there-
abouts) during the coming opera season.
Stout citizens can cultivate waists by giving
up the evening meal for solid helpings from
the “Ring.” A few cheese straws —guaran-
teed not to crackle —might be stealthily con-
sumed during the “Twilight of the Gods.
Tne Wentworth Hotel opened its new
acreage of tea garden with an extensive
w’istaria-trimmed dinner the other night.
Mrs. “Soup” Maclurcan. who started as
Mrs. Landlady with a roll call of about oU
boarders, is now in command of a concern
which has floated itself into a limited com-
pany. About 800 persons can assimilate an
evening meal in the new garden annexe.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


What Riders
say
“The B & B. Bicycle I pur-
chased from your Forbes
Agent is a beauty. I have
ridden it on all kinds of
roads, and find it an easy-
running and thoroughly strong
machine. Not only is it
strong, but it is handsome in
appearance. I can safely re-
commend the B. & B. to any-
one that requires a thoroughly
up-to-date and serviceable
machine.”
“W. S. Pearse, Forbes.”
“In 1900 I purchased one of
your bicycles in W. Austra-
lia, where, in four years, I
covered some 12,528 miles. I
took it with me to S. Aus-
tralia, where it did 36 trips
from Hahndorf to Adelaide,
18 miles each way. I recom-
mend these machines before
any I know.”
“A. Moser, Hahndorf.”
Q
m
ben Nil
A Strong
Light “B. & B.”
Cycle, £6|lo|-
If you don’t want to pay too much for a cycle you’ll
make the best investment in buying a B. & B.
“Express” at £6/10/-
It’s a grand little machine, and we have no hesita-
tion in saying you’ll pay at least a pound more else-
where for the same value.
SPECIFICATION.
FRAME —Latest design, built of best weldless steel. Height of
frame, 22in. or 24in., or any other size to order. FRONT FORK—
Best weldless, D shape. WHEELS —28in. diameter ; carefully built
and trued; spokes high tension; genuine Westwood rims; enam-
elled. HUBS—OiI retaining ; soindles and cones carefully hardened,
ground and polished, and standard fitting. CHAIN WHEEL —
Handsome design; standard detachable. CHAIN —-Twin Roller;
breaking strain, 13ewt. 3qr. CRANKS —Standard Pattern, or
7 inches. SADDLE—B. 10 pattern; good quality. HANDLE
Bar—Flat, upturned, dropped or $ drop. TYRES —Oceanic or
Wyngeel. BRAKE —Front rim brake ; pull-up lever. FINISH —-
Stove-enamelled black, red, green or blue, to order, crown plated.
ACCESSORIES —-Tool bag, pump, clips, spanners and oil can.
Come in and inspect this cycle at our showrooms, or write for free
Illustrated Catalogue. Open Fridays till 9 p.m.
Bennett & Barkell, Ltd.,
Largest Cycle Building House in the State,
124=132 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
VICE-REGAL
BY APPOINTMENT.
JEWELLERS
Presentation Goods.
i 1
•••%
it
ymw jp f ,
W>.y Jl
We have an extensive range of the newest designs
in Necklets and Pendants, Bracelets, Brooches,
Wristlet Watches—Plain and Jewelled, and Toilet
and Travelling Goods and Novelties*
Visitors to the A.J.C. Spring Meeting are invited to
inspect the Showrooms.
New Catalogue sent free on request.
Hardy Brothers, Ltd.,
VICE-REGAL JEWELLERS,
13 Hunter St, Sydney; 118 Queen St, Brisbane.
LONDON OFFICE: 17 & 18 WEST SMITHFIELD, E.C.
Bookstall Series
N.S.W.
1,000,000 COPIES SOLD OF THE POPULAR
“BOOKSTALL” SERIES of AUSTRALIAN NOVELS
Written, Illustrated and Printed in Australia.
Price, One Shilling Each ; Post Free, 1/1.
JUST PUBLISHED—
“A CURATE IN BOHEMIA.*'
By NORMAN LINDSAY.
Price, 1/-; Post Free, 1/1.
As Australia’s foremost Black and White Artist, Norman Lindsay and his work are well known
and highly appreciated, but no one ever dreamt of accusing the artist of being an author. Neverthe-
less the fact remains, and when we say that the work of the author is on a par with that ot ihe
artist, our readers will know what to expect. “The Curate in Bohemia” fairly bristles with bright
things, and the illustrations alone are well worth the money. That so much genuine humor can be
got. out. of the adventure of the luckless curate speaks volumes for the ability of the artist-author
who has so suddenly leapt into the literary limelight.
“THE GOLDEN KANGAROO. '*
By AMBROSE PRATT.
(Author of “ Three Years with Thunderbolt.” “ The Outlaws of Weddln Range,” etc., etc.)
Price, 1/-; Post Free, 1/1.
The Golden Kangaroo was reported to be one of the best paying propositions the Australian
mining world had ever known. Its directors were pillars of probity who would never drearn ot
issuing false re >orts or of salting samples. But the hero of this tale had his doubts and started in
to expose the fakers. He abducts the chairman’s daughter, with whom he goes through many
strange adventures ;he works in the mine until he unravels the plot to rig the market; brings tne
designing directors to book; saves the shareholders; and marries the aforesaid daughter.
Altogether this is a fascinating story well worthy of the attention of readers who enjoy thrilling
situations described in tense, graphic language.
NORMAN LINDSAY’S BOOK.
II The Cleverest Book Ever Published in Australia. 1 /
|™ Post Free, 1/1.
Mr. Norman Lindsay is the most brilliant and versatile of Australian illustrators. He has
made NORMAN LINDSAY’S BOOK with his whole heart, and with all his celebrated artistic skill.
Bright Humor, Lively Letterpress,
The kind of Stories and Verses everybody likes to read.
By Edward Dyson, Montague Grover, C. J. Dennis, “Kodak,” and Norman
Lindsay himself.
Seventy Drawings by Norman Lindsay,
Giving every phase of the wonderful versatility of the work of Australia s foremost black and white
Artist.
ARE NOW OBTAINABLE FROM
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.,
470 George Street, Sydney. And All Booksellers.
To Hear Ourselves
as Others Hear Us
The Modern Blarney Stone isn’t a stone at all, and you don t have
to imperil your neck to kiss it.
But it has the magic qualities which tradition ascribes to the
famous stone of Castle Blarney.
The Modern Blarney Stone is a cylinder which fits any Edison
Cylinder Phonograph, and upon which you can record your own
voice in the privacy of your home as easily as you speak into a
telephone. Then by a simple adjustment you cause the phono-
graph to repeat to you what you have spoken or sung to it.
Thus you have the opportunity to study your own voice and
manner of speech, correct the faults you discover, and ultimately
acquire the gifts of tongue, which, according to the old Irish legend,
can be achieved by kissing the Blarney Stone.
Write for this great
Booklet it’s FREE!
Our new booklet, “To Hear Ourselves as Others Hear Us,” or “The
Modern Blarney Stone,” suggests various advantages which result from
the study of your own voice on the Edison Phonograph. A perusal of its
pages is commended to those who sing, whether professionally or merely for
the edification of themselves and their friends; to teachers of music, com-
posers, lawyers, clergymen, actors and actresses, lecturers, political students
and speakers, business executives, salesmen and saleswomen, young people
generally, and to all hostesses.
Send your name and address to-day for a free copy of this grand little
booklet, and we will forward it to you by return mail.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale only), Dept. 8., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.


Stein BlocH Suits
FAULTLESS AMERICAN CLOTHINQ—FROM FARMER & COMPANY
LTD., SOLE AGENTS FOR NEW SOUTH WALES.
The Stein Bloch Suit holds an unapproachable
position in the world of ready-made clothing. In the
set of the collar, the shaping of the shoulders and
waist, the hang of the trousers, these American
Suits portray the skilful touch, the inimitable work
of the master tailor.
In soft finished SAXONY TWEEDS in the new
brown shades, also grey and lovat (green).
Price, G Guineas.
In SILK AND WOOL MIXTURES. CASHMERES
AND WORSTEDS, no two suitings alike.
Price, 8 to 9| Guineas
CARRIAGE PAID THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
F armer’s Sydney
PITT, MARKET and GEORGE STREETS.
At the International Congress of Medicine, held
in London during August, Messrs. A. Wulfing & Co.
were awarded the Grand Prix for their well-known
tonic-food, Sanatogen. It is a significant fact that
an international jury of leading medical men should
have singled out this preparation for the highest
possible award, and the makers are congratulated
on their success. Sanatogen has a world wide repu-
tation, and thoroughly deserves the good opinion
held of it by the medical profession.*
The
Oriental
Hotel,
MELBOURNE.
AUSTRALIA’S MODERN HOTEL.
Now open for the reception of Guests.
The most Hygienic Conditions and Refined
Elegance are distinctive features.
Any size suite of compartments.
Tariff from 15/- per day.
ERNEST McINTOSH, General Manager.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, September 22, 1913.
My Dear Yarrie, —
The British visitors dined with G.-G.
Denman, then made their first big public
bow at State Parliament House, on Monday
evening of last week. A herd of guests
dodged the All Australia Exhibition in one
part of the great barn, and arrived in full
regalia in Queen’s Hall and the adjacent
corridors. A party there gets as scattered
as an open-air garden rally. Rita Hope
was bravely playing Chopin in one corner,
while a brass band was blowing the latest
ragtime in the corridor. A full-powered
concert, with Hal Elvins accompanying,
managed to get some sort of a hearing in
another location. Premier Watt, with his
lady dressed in magpie black and white, re-
ceived the visitors. State Governor Fuller
being absent, John Madden put on his
Lieutenant-Governor warpaint and per-
formed in time to the Anthem. Son Guy
raked out his coat with the blue lapels,
shook the moths out of it, and did a turn as
Gentleman Help. The Barttelot dame and
her husband accompanied the Emmotts, who
have been given shakedowns at Federal
Government House. The moving pictures
have helped to familiarise Melbourne with
his bald patch, long, rather wavering legs
and bland official smile. His dame dazzled
in diamonds showered over a dress like a
salad mayonnaise. Mrs. Greenwood wore
fine black Australian opals on a greeny-
yellow dress; and Mrs. Sherwell won hyster-
ical applause from keen women critics
with some intricate pink brocade. Little
Mrs. Stead hovered about and emitted little
shrieks of greeting, most of the visiting wives
being personal friends. Bishop Riley, of
Westralia, was just too sweet for anything
in a purple coat over the loveliest black silk
legs buckled with diamond garters. Ivy
Deakin-Brookes was in yellow, and accom-
panied her husband, who has just been
elected Head Man of Commerce, or some-
thing of the kind. The Forrest dame, wear-
ing a great quantity of lace, helped her Big-
john to buzz about and look important. The
British folk were rather shy, and, the gather-
ing being numerous and scattered, introduc-
tions were difficult. Australian guests
would suddenly come upon a lonely couple
of foreigners sitting forlornly on one of the
corridor lounges and eye them dubiously and
rather defiantly. The social ice was thick
in all directions. A careful selection of
gold-laced naval men wandered about; but
a careful selection of Antarctic explorers
would have been of more use. Most guests
had a furtive air; everywhere you saw local
people considering the frozen newcomers and
begging to be informed which of them
really mattered. It was like an uncata-
logued day at the Zoo. A programme of
welcome was handed round like a tract or
a political pamphlet. It was burdened with
a long and florid poem about the bonds of
Empire, and was signed “E. B. Loughran.”
The intention was good, but it didn’t break
any of the ice. The new Overseas. Club
spread itself out thin and got lost in the
mazes of the crowd. People drifted away
thankfully at 10 o’clock, cold and unsatis-
fied, in spite of the supper rally.
The Gaud Mayoral couple opened the
Town Hall doors as wide as possible, on
Saturday evening, to welcome the everlast-
ing British Parliamentary push. The motor-
crawl to the doors began on the far side of
Princes Bridge, and kept on till long past
nine o’clock. The huge herd of Melbourne’s
diamond-studded Best were being shepherded
towards the Gaud Mayoral gloves when the
lights blinked to a mere glimmer and an
inflamed map of the world (done in colored
lights) became visible. There were also
colored prints of Westminster and Federal
Parliament House, some flowers and a bust
of George V. Very cheap and tasty. In
the middle of the red-carpeted hall a foun-
tain played in variegated colors all the even-
ing. G.-G. Denman and his dinner party
sauntered in presently and headed for the
dais. Mrs. Hennessy did the hostess act
in a dream of gold and silver brocade fitting
everywhere without a wrinkle and eked out
with graceful bodice embellishments of
black chiffon. The Emmott dame (whom
everyone pronounces “a dear,” as she wears
a comfortable smile and hasn’t a trace of
the snob about her) manipulated an ivory
brocade creation encrusted with beaded
Japanese embroidery and rose floral touch-
ings. Dame Madden looked tired but hand-
some in pearl grey and turquoise blue, with
all the family diamonds and misty tulle
hair-ties, while daughter Lesly bore up in
royal purple upholstering, outlined in dia-
mond trimmings. John looked expansively
important, and a brigade of blue-trimmed
Helps backed him up. The star visitor is
little Mrs. Greenwood, whose fair prettiness
was upholstered in white satin and floating
veilings of grey-beaded chiffon. The Pirie
daughter looked demure in white satin hid-
den in a mist of white chiffon. The
Barttelot dame was willowy and discreet in
expensive black. Mrs. Frank Madden, also
clothed in black, relieved with a posy of
real pink roses, had a couple of daughters in
tow. Mrs. Arthur Sherwell and the
Carlile clan were well gemmed, and Mrs.
.Andrew Fisher looked motherly and placid
in grey satin, lace and black ninon. The
Norton Grimwade dame staggered most be-
holders in white silk embroidered net over
black, with colored touchings, and a giant
black osprey held down with diamonds. A
programme of music was drowned success-
fully with conversation. At feeding time
the Fatted Few solemnly paired off, and
proceeded upstairs to some exclusive
refreshments, while the crowd stayed below
and struggled as furiously as possible for
mere victuals.
A rather chilly and depressing party was
hurried through in the gardens of Federal
Parliament House on Saturday afternoon.
Needless to say, it was engineered in honor
of the Confound those British! they
keep on turning up everywhere! The
solemn spree was sandwiched between lunch
and a cadet review, with a big dinner func-
tion and a reception to follow. Senator
Givens and his wife did the welcoming, and
Mrs. Andrew Fisher, clad warmly in tweeds,
looked the most sensible woman present.
The bleak wind drove the feminines in
flimsy silks and satins to cover. The
Emmott dame put sable and brocaded velvet
over her thin blue frock. A band played
vigorously, and tea cheered the chatterers
before they moved off to take their places
on the steps for the march past.
Presently the flight of grey stone steps was
flecked with brilliant raiment. Specially
selected, scarlet-clad soldiers, on superb
horses, were stationed on a tan square, and
uniforms blazed everywhere. G.-G. Den-
man, riding at the head of the young army,
was a blinding sight. He seemed to have
everything on but his wife’s diamonds and
the family cruet-stand. The Treasury win-
dows were hung with rugs and scarves "and
filled with eager faces, as were the windows
all down Collins-street. After the dull round
of food, talk and speeches, the parade must
flave come as a relief.
The Gaud Mayor gives a dance in the
Town Hall, on Wednesday, October 1, with
the G.-G. pair as guests of honor. (The
Denman lady is to return before then.)
The affair will probably be a sort of glori-
ous thanksgiving revel, as it is understood
among the corporation paunches that Hen-
nessy will be re-elected for a fresh term.
Among the public, who are not unconcerned
with the dust problem, the .Hennessy re-
election is approved of. There seems a
vague belief that he is laying a little more
dust, or spreading a little less sand on
windv days than his predecessors did.
Mrs. Hennessy heroically led the prudent
army of lymph-receivers at the Town Hall
in the first days of the small-pox scare ; but
she has been suffering severely for it ever
since. She reappeared in pubiic last week,
taking up hostess duties again with a sigh
for the entertainment of the British.
Mrs. Albert Austin is lending her garden
and praying for fine weather for Saturday,
27th. (Meanwhile the squattocracy are fer-
vently thanking Heaven for the inches of
rain that splashed on parched Northern
Victoria.) Qn Saturday, all Toorak, led by
St. John’s Guild, is to extract money from
itself by means of a fete. The convalescent
Gaud Mayoress is gathering strength to
open the show. The members of St. John’s
Guild sew for the poor, week by week; but
Toorak has not enough poor to go round,
so the surplus garments are going to the
Streets and Lanes Mission. Charity is
really a boom this year. Maybe it will
sober down into a habit.
Mrs. Peter, of Glenloth station, whilst
motoring towards town on a shopping raid
from her far-north Victorian station, was
overtaken by rain, and finally held up alto-
gether by a melted road, which clung like a
long-lost creditor to the wheels of the car.
She had to get out of the stationary machine
and walk miles to the nearest means of
transport—a bullock-waggon, or something
of the kind. When at last she arrived
home,, muddy and tired, she was met by a
beaming husband chanting thanksgivings for
the burst-up of the drought. At any
rate, the Glenloth dance happened on the
last fine evening. The squattocracy for
miles round motored to the homestead and
danced and sat out on the twenty-foot
verandahs. A careful chauffeur who was
told off to light up placed two paper globes
in front of each sitting-out nook. Later on
he complained to Missus that he had to
“light all them lanterns again,”, the wind or
someone having blown them out. Since the
big revel a whole crop of engagements has
sprouted.
Commander Stivey is to give a great party
aboard the White Star sea-giant Ceramic, at
Port Melbourne, on Friday, 26th. Each in-
vited guest has received an immense slab of
pasteboard with a detachable slab for the
admiral in charge of the gangway.
Tommy Cochrane, the Incomparable, is
billed to play a part in the Repertory
Theatre . production of “Major Barbara,”
and Society is convulsed with horror be-
cause it is reported that the adored youth
will have to sacrifice his beautiful sideboard
whiskers. This may seem a poor, trivial
matter to make a fuss about. But perhaps
you haven’t seen those whiskers?
Dave Armstrong, a popular old collegian
of “Scotch,” has taken Miss Je9n Arm-
strong, of Sandringham, to wife. The bride
had just returned from a foreign trip, and
the pair were quietly wedded at Scots’
Church last week. Sol Bloom, the Univer-
sity youth with political 'aspirations, was
best man, and, in that capacity, helped to
get the pair safely off to Bananaland. When
they return to Melbourne and earth gener-
ally, the bridegroom will continue selling
real estate, as before the wedding.
The hand of sympathy has gone out to
Argus editor Cunningham,'who has suffered
two bereavements. His sister, Mrs. Snow-
den, died suddenly in Tasmania, and his
mother passed away, three days later, at the
house of her son Charles.
Chas. L. Forrest, squatter and ex-M.L.A.
for Corangamite, at his death left a will
bequeathing (so it was thought) £lOO,OOO
to charities. His nephew has contested the
will, and it has been declared void for un-
certainty—to the great gain of the nephew
aforesaid.
Fan Dango’s husband built a beautiful
house for his captive star, at Berwick ; and
when the dainty little lady tired of the
country, the place (red roofs, windmills and
all) was sold to Andrew Chirnside. The
Chirnsides have had an anxious time ever
since their housewarming. Mrs. Andrew has
had doctors and nurses from town in at-
tendance at Berwick for weeks. The latest
report tells of three of Melbourne’s leading
medicoes. petrolling up the drive in mad
haste, with a batch of relieving nurses fol-
lowing closely. It is hoped that the united
skill of all these people will put the poor
lady on the road to health again.
Berwick, a smart golfing resort which lies
just beyond the suburban radius, found that
additions to the club-house were and
sent out a call for help. So it came to pass
that councillor Scott Sharp and his wife,
and one of the Pearson squatting clan gave
a tea party and a dance. Melbourne motors
whirled the road dust into the air, as the
Best People fled to the revel. Chirnsides,
Millers, Harpers and Agar Wynnes put
their best wheels foremost and thoroughly
oiled the atmosphere, and the neighbors
hurried down from their picturesque hilltops
to join in the chatter and gyrations. Kath-
leen McPherson Knox has a house on a hill,
and the Oscar Armytages have another with
a view of ever so many miles of picked coun-
try. Two of the woolly Pearson clan are
settled loftilv in the vicinity, and the Robert
Harpers’ only daughter, Mrs. Taylor, is a
neighbor. Then Mrs. Webster, of the St.
Germains Patterson family, still owns a
corner of the countryside. All these hill-
owners rolled down loyally to help the good
cause. For the dance that followed, the
guests were heavily disguised with grease,
paint and rouge till some of them lost all
resemblance to human beings. Grandmother’s
oldest silks got an airing on several smart
young dames. 'T'he financial results were
highly satisfactory, and the club-house
threatens to grow as fast as a rumor; also,
the membership list is swelling visibly.
President Mrs. aßeckett had perforce to
stay away. When the revelry was at its
height—or away up—she was being tenderly
nursed in a Melbourne hospital and fed with
beef tea. She had been taking her politics
too seriously.
The captain of the newest inter-State
steamer, the Katoomba, lately gave a marine
party. Young Mcllwraith, son of one of
the firm, had travelled out with his wife
from England on the boat, and helped the
skipper to welcome the guests. Maggie
Stirling sang on the gleaming deck, and a
brass band blared gaily where the wind
whistled shrilly round a corner. (The wise
woman always ties her hat on firmly for a
ship function.)
The “Hoffmann” matinde cast last week
included none of the hard-worked principal
voices, except Gladys Ancrum’s serviceable
soprano. Hedmont, tall and plump, sang
the tenor hero part nicely in a small way,
and acted quite well enough. The tall
Ancrum lady waved her long arms as the
alluring Giulietta, and made a fine picture
at times. But when Edith Clegg and she
did the barcarolle duet at the beginning of
the Venetian act, it was hardly recognisable
as the rich blend of contralto tones that
little Rose Beyron and Edna Thornton in-
troduced to Melbourne on the opening
Quinlan night last year. Clara Butt and
her Rumford were in one of the boxes. The
barcarolle duet is one of their concert num-
bers, and they had come to hear it. They
must have wondered as to exactly how much
difference there is between their own con-
tralto-baritone blend and the two soprano
voices on the stage. A musical draper
might describe it as the difference between
mercerised cotton and silk velvet.
Quinlan’s version of “Walkure” is worth
the money, just to see the blue god’s cloak
Parker trails amongst the war-maidens’
mountains. The garment is a magnificent
thing, both as regards size and color. It is
the green-blue of a tropic sea, and Parker-
Wotan sweeps it round him so that it looks
like a swirl of cloud. He even veils the
rather awkward subsidence of a too-squat
Brunnhilde, when she goes off to sleep on
her rockv bed with the fires around her.
The cloak and the Brunnhilde red hair veil
the pronounced curves of the lady until the
shield and eagle-feathered casque are in
place. One woman, dazzled by the blue
robe, remarked plaintively in the half dark-
ness that she was “dying to see how it was
made.” The lights failing to go up, she
remarked crossly, “I can’t see a bit! Why
don’t they light the stage better?” “Be-
cause it is midnight in the mountains!”
growled her husband alongside. Then the
disturbed females all around hunched their
powdered shoulders contemptuously and
gave a splendid imitation of a bleak day in
a frozen meat depbt.
Clara Butt “glittered vainglorious” in her
Saturday reappearance at the Auditorium
—a stately vision in black and white, with
scarlet flowers at her waist and a bunch of
scarlet carnations in her hand. The gown
was white satin covered with black net, pro-
fusely jewelled. A left sleeve of black net
and a long black velvet sash over the shmii
der were the apologies for a bodice! ot£'.
wise Clara s torm divine was unclothed
from the waist up. A jewelled tassel to th d
sash assisted the slitter; and the diam o S
in her hair and ears, and a necklace “of
same, would have set a burglar's mo mh
watering. The effect was mighty fine ThS
lady s first item, an early German Easte!
Hymn, showed her to be in mighty fine
voice, too ; but by the time she got to ‘Abid l
with Me, the heavy programme and tvrnn
meal encores had made her a trifle hoarse
Rumford did his artistic best—his very best
—with a palpably weary baritone; and
Mowat Carter’s fiddling of Hubay’s Hun
garian Dances was one of the events of the
concert.
The Craftworkers, who started this year
of grace in practical business style are
making steady headway. People seem to
like the co-operative idea as applied to the
arts, and the rush of business has induced a
better show than ever. Things are set out
for inspection in the big Centreway window
and secretary Isabel Gullett is kept hard at
work.
Miss Thea Proctor had a correct artistic
crowd round her fans on opening day. The
absent Denman lady has rather a taste in
that direction; but the Carmichael dame
was a fan expert. She had a wonderful
collection of old examples—some painted and
others embroidered. (She loved anything
from the needle.) When Hardy Wilson
brought part of his dainty collection to Mel-
bourne, the vice-regal enthusiast was
frankly envious. Wilson has a special col-
lection of “sticks” —the ivory and inlaid
mother-of-pearl frames, the making of
which was an early Florentine art in itself.
Miss Proctor says she finds great pleasure
in fan-painting because any fantasy is quite
in place. Pity is the delicate, flirting things
are quite out of fashion in this age of sporty,
athletic women.
The Victorian artists bohemed politely
enough at the East Melbourne galleries on
Thursday evening. Music and two-stepping
prevailed until 9.30, when a joyous rush was
made to the spaghetti banquet. Great bowls
of flavored macaroni, hot from the stove of
an Italian chef, were carved into eatable
lengths by most of the company. Sculptor
Cadorin was an interesting exception. He
juggled deftly with the slippery yards of
nourishment, and never choked once.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
The Matrons’ Ball in the Walkerville Hall wag a
success. Anyhow, no one lodged a protest to any
one of the seven ladies who were responsible for it,
which is good enough evidence for me. Mrs. Lav-
ington Bonython was protected from the elements
by an artistic black creation, and Mrs. C. M. Muir-
head —who was a Miss Butler till a few months ago
—wore her wedding dress. Her mother (who was
one of the seven above-mentioned) was in cream,
with drapings of apricot ninon and an attenuated
train. Mrs. Graham Stewart, another of the host-
esses, adorned a black ninon frock with a dash of
coronation blue. Amongst an absolute welter of
youth and beauty were to be seen Mrs. Walter Law
Smith, Miss Coles, Miss Creswell, Miss Muirhead, a
couple of fresh-complexioned Butler girls, Miss Paul-
ine Schomburgk and Miss Ringwood.
Mary Grant Bruce has been boomed by London
Daily Mail as “the distinguished Australian author-
ess.” The Mail has published some of her articles,
and she has managed an interview with Northcliffe.
She talks of a return to her native Gippsland in
the early part of next year.
On Friday evening Dr. and Mrs. Charles Todd
gave a children’s fancy-dress dance. The Bonython
trio were a Turk and a Turkish lady and a be-
spangled fairy. The small Robert Rymills were
also of Asia. A slim Poulton child was a miniature
Gende, and Mrs. A. E. O’Leary’s daughterlet was a
dashing beauty of the Nell Gwynn period. Mrs.
Todd was helped in the business of feeding the
guests, quelling riots, etc., by Mrs. Lavington
Bonython, Miss Laxmoore, Miss Davis and her sister,
Miss Hawker, Miss Jean Wigg, Miss Vincent and the
Misses Young.
The Dudley Haywards, who have been globe-
trotting, are expected back some time in November.
Mrs. J. Harvey will be back next rfionth.
A goodish crowd of sporting people went to
Cheltenham on Saturday, which was all right for
the Port Adelaide Racing Club, but considerably less
so for the people who had to use the trains. Usually
we think our train-service on race-days is the limit,
in the wav of rottenness, and can be no worse. But
it can, and on Saturday it was. Also it did. Mrs.
Jervois was there, also Mrs. A. Bowman, Mrs. J. H.
Pile and her daughter, Miss Lewis, the Leslie Bick-
fords and W. F. Driscolls and hosts of men. Fight-
ing Prince gave the few who backed him a £22
dividend; he attracted only £64 to the totalisator.
Lady Bosanquet gave away the prizes at the
Queen’s School Sports on Friday, in a well-tailored
garment of amethyst serge. On the lawn were
but suppose I cut out the usual old list for once
in a way.
Mrs. Darnley Naylor, who died on Sunday morn-
ing at the Grand Central Hotel, had been ill, more
or less, ever since she went to England last. She
took a kawi interest in her husband’s work, and
was an earnest philanthropist.
The School for Mothers held its annual meeting
on Monday. It is rather on the lines of a kinder-
garten for the instruction of grandparents in the
art of sucking eggs. However, it is an extremely
useful institution. Lady Bosanquet was there to
see that the proceedings were carried out correctly.
The strolling politicians arrived here this week.
Their advance agency work had Been well so
all was in readiness for them. They were re-
ceived” by the Mayor, and likewise at a “small anu
early” at Government House on Wednesday evening.
Also, they were motored hastily through the hills,
from which trip they returned in a more or Jess
damp condition. If there had been time they would
have been fed and motored even more. We are never
backward with these delights where affluent visitor
are concerned.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.


-
■ : w%
m
- * .
.
if , i
y*vm{\r Ti
• . ; ••: .
*
' m m
W %
[
I
r
■
i ’
..
* v ' ■*
‘ «.‘i :
* v ‘
■'iJfeC'?"' " j
ZMSi
m I
fell
«tl
■ : j
-
WM
:M ■ »
; .
m \
It#w
■Wi:
IT
ssas
. -
.
•'
:• i~..;'.
IS
■ ,Jf
K
1
-
»|l: a
* :
i
Joseph Simpson , R.B.A.
Copyright. John Dewar & Sons, Lid »
PRINCE CHARLIE
This Picture is the Second of a Series of colored Portraits of Famous Scots published by
JOHN DEWAR S 3 SONS, L™ Scotch Whisky Distillers, Perth London


HOW TO HAVE A BEAUTIFUL
COMPLEXION.
One of our lady readers who found that
her skin was becoming harsh and dry from
the use of powders, rouge and creams sends
us the formula below. She states that the
simple, harmless and inexpensive lotion made
therefrom softened her skin, and so greatly
enhanced the beauty of her complexion that
she has entirely done away with all other
preparations which she had been accustomed
to use. This lotion can easily be prepared
at home or by any good pharmacien. It calls
for two ounces of Hose Water, one drachm
Tincture of Benzoin, and two ounces
Flowers of Oxzoin. Mix together and apply
night and morning with the hands, or use
a soft cloth or sponge. Always shake well
before using. Our obliging correspondent
asks that her name be withheld for personal
reasons, but nevertheless gives us permis-
sion to publish her letter for the benefit of
other readers. She adds that this formula
was given her by a woman 05 years old,
whose youthful complexion and almost
total absence of wrinkles were a source of
wonder and admiration to all who knew
her.*
STOMACH TROUBLES.
n .?f ax ®‘Tonic PiUs are a most effective reniedv for
Biliousness and ail irretrularitiis of the stomach and
bowels. They act quickly and effectually, without
weakening the system, as is the case with most medi-
cines used for these troubles. Price, 10*d. and Is 6d
Obtainable everywhere.*
THe World's Best.
DAIMLER
MOTOR LORRY-
Silent Knight Engine.
Shaft Drive No Chains.
mmmm
SUNSHINE
Motor Cars P’t’y
Melbourne.
Hugh V. McKay, Sydney &. Adelaide
ide.J
Sole
Agents.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
TRAFELLERS ’ TALES.
TRAVELLER : “Strange breed them, Mister!”
DROVER: “It was this way, boss. Our men
got speared. Short-handed. Had to bore
holes through trees, poke the tails through,
and tie ’em in a knot. One night they
rushed!"
“Dux” : I’ve heard of racehorses that could
“catch swallows,” but they’re only hearse-tuggers
alongside Henare’s br. c. Crimson Dash. The other
morning they tried Crimson Dash over four furlongs
straight on the beach. Henare held the clock (a
full brother to grandfather’s), and, when he waved
the blanket, little Tiki dug the hooks into the colt,
and the rest was just plain streak. As he passed
us I gasped, “Whatcher make it, Henare?” Henare
scratched his head and surveyed the clock doubt-
fully. “Py cripes,” he said, “tat te goot garrop.
Run te four furlong before te clock had te time to
start.” I have a faint suspicion that Henare forgot
to wind the ticker; but I’m saving up to have a
punt on Crimson Dash, anyhow.
“Uuarel” : There’s a salt-bitten old skipper
in charge of one of the small craft that trade out of
Hobart to the ports as far as 50 miles south, and he
has been known to lose his urbanity once only. That
was last summer, when he was piloting a cargo of
tourists to view the historic Port Arthur penal settle-
ment ruins. Tne boat was about two hours behind
time and one superior bore had pestered the old man
as to when he was likely to make the port. For the
185th time the pest had been answered good-humor-
edly, but on the 186th occasion the sea serpent
turned. “Aw, I say, Captain,” said the stranger,
“dash it all, y’ know, we ought to have been there
hours ago.” “Sir,” was the reply, “you ought
to have been there years ago.”'
* * * *
“Lagani Namo”: Superstition? Well,
this is the depth of ft in Papua. Every pourri-
pourri man knows that he himself is a fraud; but
he’s just as credulous as the other natives, and be-
lieves that the other pourri-pourri men have superna-
tural powers. I happened into a village on a Sun-
day afternoon some years ago, and found it thronged
with excited natives, a couple of thousand or so of
them. They sat about a sandy circus in the middle
of a cocoanut grove solemnly stuffing themselves
with betel nuts while two coppered brothers were
writhing in semi-conscious agony in a cleared space.
Relatives of the victims (for that is what they
were) sat by holding them down during fits, the
women wiping green froth away as it exuded from
their lips. A group of devilish-looking pourri-
pourri men were handy. One of these, his body
smeared with charcoaly oil and colored pigments, his
face encircled in long, black cassowary feathers, neck-
lets of red shell charms on his breast, dozens of hoops
of plaited cane about his waist, biceps and calves and
ankles, with garters of grass and fibre around them,
was leaping here and there, and shrieking accusa-
tions and vituperations. With a final fierce panto-
mime he illustrated what he would do to those
responsible for the plight of the “boys” writhing
at his feet when his charms would have discovered
them. As soon as he concluded his performance
another Mephistopheles leapt into the theatre scream-
ing some more, and blowing red betel pulp all
about him. He cursed everyone in general, and
some in particular. This sort of thing went on for
a couple of hours, during which a dozen or more
sorcerers leaped. Suddenly three youths were
dragged into the arena, the sorcerers sprang about
them grunting like pigs, spitting threats and ex-
pectorating scarlet juice over them. The youths
simply gazed fixedly straight before them. “Speak !
you sons of pigs,” commanded the sorcerers, and
one of the youths opened his lips to begin, but the
pourri-pourri men shouted him down. These sorcerers
had every villainy imaginable depicted on their
wrinkled faces. They looked like fiends vomited
from Tophet for the occasion. One of the boys
died —poisoned, of course, by some of the pourri-
pourri men themselves. Subsequently several of them
were arraigned and a host of witnesses summoned
by the Crown, but witnesses know very well that
unless they tender evidence favorable to the sor-
cerers they too are almost certain to be having a fit
on the sand when they go back to their villages.
And after the brief description I have given here
of a fit on the sand you can understand the reluct-
ance the inhabitants feel to undergoing one.
* * * *
“W..T.H,”: So prolific have opossums be-
come in the southern provinces of Maoriland that
numbers of rabbiters have given bunny the go-by.
In some cases cheques of from £35 to £4O a month
are being made from trapping the marsupial, and it
has been computed by the Otago
Acclimatisation Society that from
December to May last over 14,000
’possum skins, valued at £4200,
were exported from Dunedin. This
points to the early extinction of
the little furry citizen or institu-
tion, and powerful friends are mak-
ing efforts to block the mercenary
exterminators. A lady at Burnt
Flat, Catlins (Otago), has taken a
practical way to save the species
in her district. Makjng a pathetic
appeal to a number of youtntul
trappers, she got them to pass on
to her the joeys found in the female
marsupials' pouches. For the ac-
commodation of the babies she had
a run constructed, much on the
pattern of a fowlyard, with the dif-
ference that the nests were placed
just under a roof, and a ladder was
hung from the carefully wire-nettpd
yard to give access to the roost-
ing places. The guests are fed on pap, such as is
given to chickens, and green stuffs of all kind. The
experiment is progressing valorously.
* * * *
“The Immature Male”: Me for “Inebri-
ated” when we open the Multi-Synonymous Word
Competition. In the number, aptness and variety
of its colloquial equivalents I consider it comman-
deers the pastry. For instance:—
Loaded, primed, beered, on the bust, blued,
potted, shot, sozzled, soused, inked, tanked, flooded’
lull, tiddley, umpty-do, blind, blue-blind, joyed, wet,
staggered, ripe, rolling, paralytic, stung, jim-jammed!
on, tangled, outed, snake-juiced, half-seas over,
moist, off the waggon, dizzy, ding-donged,. gone a
million, soaked, sprung, ale-d, damped, three sheets
in the wind, syruped, juiced, bunkered, guzzled,
gone, afloat, rocky, jagged, irrigated, under the ini
Alienee, gargled, flummixed, squiffy, slopped, ele-
phant-trunked, boozed, doped, hipped, watered,
brimmed, chloroformed, tight, merry, a-wash, or!
the loose, drunk, screwed, shickered, canned, groggy,
corned, razzled, sewed up, lushy, muzzy, slewed,
drunk as Chloe, drunk as a fiddler, drunk as a
lord, drunk as an owl, putrid, dead to the world
and plain blithered. And I have heard a Spaniard
say, “Drunk as the Lord’s sepulchre.”
* * * *
“To Babarantiko”: I am fairly well
acquainted with both the N. S. Wales and Islands
variety of centipede, but I never saw it “suckling”
its young, as mentioned recently. On the other
hand, I can say positively that my old friend,
Mother Scorpion, has that attractive maternal
habit. Anyhow, the small, speckled Islands variety
has. This crawler is not so poisonous as some of
the family. First time he tasted me the burning
sensation around the locality impoverished descrip-
tion, and bankrupted my stock of metaphorical
retaliation. Unpleasant numbness followed the pain,
and for some days afterwards the skin and flesh
were curiously hard and senseless. Still, those
were comparatively mild symptoms. It was a com-
mon, barnyard fowl that squared the deal between
me and the scorpion push. 1 had occasion to use a
stack of some hundreds of rough palm-leaf mats
(tinai) for copra drying, and these were literally
swarming with the spider of the Zodiac. And the
way that chook threaded the procession down her
throat was an unholy revelation. If she wasn’t
zinc-lined, then hen must be impervious to scor-
pion.
NO SENSE OF DECENCY.
MRS. DAIRYMAN (tragically): "’Come ’ome drunk, art pore Strawberry lyin' diad
in the yard!"
“W.W.”: Here are a couple of old epi-
taphs. The first was on a tombstone in the old
Devonshire-street (Sydney) cemetery, and the in-
scription can now be seen flourishing in new quar-
ters at Botany:—
WILLIAM JACKSON,
who was carelessly rode
over, and killed returning
from the races,
21 May, 1831,
aged 21 years.
Oh, Henry you did me kill
And would not pay my Drs. Bill
Your drunkedness has caused my fall
But consider you must come. When God doth call.
The other moulders peacefully in God's Acre at
Jamberoo (N.S.W.) :
He was a neighbor good and true
To many known in Jamberoo.
Kiama now his loss bewails,
And all his friends at Riverdale.
His sons their father's name revere,
And had this stone erected here
His honored grave for to respect
And as a tribute of respect.
Died in 1*849.
* * * *
“Mint” : Dave and Bill were room-mates.
Bill was superstitious. If he spilt the salt, walked
under a ladder, or had 13 beers running in the same
bar, he knew he was threatened with disaster and
death. All this was mental stimulus for Dave. One
Wednesday morning he remarked that he (Dave)
had dreamt that Bill was to die on the following
Sunday, and advised him to be careful, as dreams
very often came true. On Saturday they came home
together. Dave immediately set about making pre-
parations for the afternoon’s outing by making for
the bathroom. Before he went he artfully reminded
Bill of his fate, and exhorted him to see a parson.
When he came back, Bill was gone. Ten seconds
after he realised that his week’s pay had also gone.
Bill came back on Monday night, and, in answer to
a demand for an explanation, said: “Dave, ole man,
we’re cobbers. You tole me I was goin’ to die, an’
I knew you’d like to see me die happy. Two quid
wasn’t enough to make me ’appy, so o’ course I
had to take yours.” Dave has decided not to work
on Bill’s superstitions any more. There is no money
in it, and even less fun.
* * * *
“Moses” : A bird in the hand is still worth
two in the bush. Steinwedel was a machinery trav-
eller. The turkey he won in a raffle at Digeniont
he gave to a pal, as Purplestraw had promised to
meet him at the train with a pair of turkeys—
payment for fixing up his binder at the brink of
harvest time. Purplestraw turned up all right.
“Sorry,” he said, “I couldn't get them turkeys for
yer. But here’s the next-best thing,” and he pushed
a bag of rabbits through the window as the train
blew out of the station. Next day 10 infuriated
fettlers reported themselves as injured through being
struck by flying rabbits.
“Bygum”: “Gilgunnia’s” statement (B.
21/8/’l3) that the Mitakoodis use the too-ta for
poisoning fish is O.K. ; but the too-ta is only one of
many plants similarly used, and is not by any
means the most effective. Up on the Mitchell and
around Cloncurry (Q.) Brother Binghi uses either
the yakooro or the jinbul when he wants a fish
lunch. As the yakooro, or fresh water mangrove,
grows around the waterholes and lagoons, it is very
handy. The bark is cut up, hammered on a stone
and thrown into the water. The fish eat it readily—
and then up goes their number! If the fish are
UNNECESSARY LABOR.
“ Ho, there, Bill!"
“ Wot yer want? ”
“ Nuthirt."
“Then wotcher wanter make a bloke turn
round for? ”
eaten at once there is no unpleasant taste, but if
kept for a day the tang of the vakooro permeates the
flesh. The jinbul tree grows on all the Gulf rivers.
The branches are laid in waterholes and sicken the
fish, which rise to the surface and are easily ob-
tained. Strange to say, the roots of the jinbul will
destroy the fish in the brackish and salt water near
the mouths of the rivers, while the leaves and
branches have no effect there. The inside bark is
also beaten to pulp and used for poultices in case
of snake-bite. A handy tree is the jinbul to have in
your vegetable garden.
(Continued on page 24. )
ONE COW, ONE CREED.
[For The Bulletin.]
One Meth Singh, Indian hawker, of Terang (Vic.),
had to be sworn on the cow—the only oath he held
binding.-— Press item.
Once, before a P.M. cheery, came a Hindoo dark and
bleary, with intent to give his witness in a
curious colored case;
And the P.M. hesitated, for he duly estimated what
a power of subtle perjury there lay behind that
face.
“Ahmed Ragbag,” fin'lly said he, “Are you list’ning
—are you ready to give truthful testimony in
this inter-alien row ?
Will you swear upon the Book,
That no statement false or crook,
You will utter?”
Came a mutter:
“I will swear it on the Cow!”
Not bv bell and book and candle —such to him were
fashions Vandal f.vith the Aryan from the
Deccan banish falsehood from his breast;
Sounding brass and tinkling cymbal to his wily wits
and nimble, are the wretched old devices that
our Courts of Law infest;
But by Her he holdeth holy, be she known as Poll
or Poley, ’fore the Ileav’ns that loom above us
doth he make a solemn vow.
To the Fact to clip and cleave,
And in no wise to deceive;
Now and ever.
Swerving never —
He will swear it on the Cow.
And the dairy whites around him cried: “This Hin-
doo man, confound him ! Doth he hug the very
symbol that ourselves we count most dear ?
Is there aught we reckon higher in the days when
we aspire, than the skin of Poll or Poley, where-
upon he sweareth here?
We are near to thee, O brother! We were suckled
by one mother, and our blood it beats to thee-
ward, as our thumping pulses trow ;
Let us live as kinsmen both,
Let us use a common oath ;
Our Shekinah
Shall be Dinah,
And our pledge shall be—-‘The Cow!’”
So the White Man and the Hindoo make the moo-
cow’s varied skin do, in that district as a
symbol of the goddess they adore;
And in mutual bovine tether do the.v sweetly dwell
together—Christ or Boodh the outward banner,
Doll or Dinah at the core;
Howsoe’er we chirp and chatter of this Ahmed's
alien patter, of his coat that shineth soapless, and
the guile upon his brow,
In our bosoms we must feel,
At our altars doth he kneel;
To things Royal
He is loyal,
And he sweareth on the Cow !
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.


SIEMENS
'4p>
m
m
A Motor that
will make money
for You.
A Siemens Motor will earn money
for you. It never takes a day off.
It never falls sick. Day in, day out -
for eight hours or more-you can
make sure that your power service
will be there.
Our F.C. Type of D.C. Motor is one
of all round usefulness. The design
is compact, and an extensive elec-
trical experience is back of its
manufacture.
The machine can deal with a 25%
overload for half an hour, or 50% for
one minute, without becoming over-
heated or causing excessive
sparking. At all loads up to 50%
overload the motor runs with prac-
tically no sparking.
As a power user you’d be interested
in further details. Call if you can-
’phone if you can’t. Or write for
Descriptive Folder No. 013
Siemens Bros. Dynamo Works Ltd.,
42 Bridge St., Sydney; 29 William St., Helbourne.
Telegraphic Address : “ SIEMENS,” Sydney or Melbourne.
m
%
&
Big Money for
Progressive
Hotelkeepers
in
Nelson’s
"Banker”
Carboiutor.
There’s absolutely nothing in the length and breadth of Australia so simple to use,
sa inexpensive and so marvellously profitable to hotelkeepers, as the Nelson
“Banker” Carbonating Machine.
It’s the best “sleeping partner” you can get. It eats up no profits, but it does
a mighty lot to make them !
All day long it will make profit for you—it never gets out of order or causes
any trouble whatever.
It Makes for £4 what would Cost £l6
from the Manufacturers.
The “Banker” would just fill up any unused space in your premises.
Its moderate price brings it within the easy reach of every hotelkeeper.
The “Banker” is built to stand any amount of hard usage ; made in our own
factory by specially selected workmen; only the best materials are used; it is
simple to handle —anybody can work it —and is fool proof.
NOW IS THE TIME TO ACT.
The hot weather is coming closer and closer.
WRITE FOR PARTICULARS —PRICE, etc.,
of this marvellous money-maker to-day.
NELSON’S CARBONATING CO. LTD.
167 George Street (Circular Quay), Sydney.
THESE TOOLS FOR DOING
BETTER WORK, QUICKER.
Hitch Your Horse to a Scoop and Make Channels the Easy Way.
McPherson Scoops are of easy draft, and won’t
drag horses out of condition; they cut their
way quickly and cleanly, and are extremely
light on horse and user.
Bowl is stamped from one solid sheet
of steel ; no seams to spread ;
same width back and front ; and
cutting edge is well ground.
Extra Heavy Bail of Special
Steel, with strong, easy
working swivel. Steel
Runners and Detach-
able Handles.
No. 3, 3 cub. feet,
32/6
No. 2, 5 cub. feet, 35/-
No. 1, 7 cub. feet, 37/6
No. 0, 10 cub. feet, 80/-
Don’t Waste Energy at the Crosscut.
Not only Energy, but Time; and wasted
time means wasted opportunities.
Here’s a bench that cuts a big stack of
firewood in a few hours, and allows you to
get on with other jobs, which you couldn’t do
if you had to stick at the crosscut. Besides,
no man need lack his good back and arms.
This bench soon pays for itself, and doesn't
cost much, anyhow.
Angle and Sheet Iron Travelling Table that
can’t shrink or tilt. Heavy Bracings, to pre-
vent warping. £l2/10/- complete, with
one SOin. Saw.
£l2/10 -
Let the Starrett Level No. 101 save
you Time and Insure Accuracy
It’s risky to guess on
Irrigation, setting out
Orchards, Grading,
Fencing. Road Making,
Levelling, and such jobs. Especially
when a mistake will mean so much,
and the STARRI3TT 101 is yours for
46/- The STARRETT 101 is for
Farmers, Orehardists, Contractors,
Builders, etc.
It is STARRETT
quality throughout,
beauti 'ully made
and finished. Com-
plete with Exten-
sion Le « s >^j m
Weighs 13jlb.
boxed.
Proprietary Ltd.
Machinery and Tool Merchants,
554-66 and 582-88 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.


vutmJk
Sporting Cartridges.
SPECIAL FEATURES:
General Evenness of Pattern, Velocity
and Pressure.
Freedom from Blowback.
Less Recoil than that given by any other
Fully-loaded Standard Ammunition.
TftAOH
R*
KYNOOA MAOI
* BONAX"
XYNOCH LOADED
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
THE
AUSTRALIANS !!
INSURE
IN
1.0. A
Fire, Marine, Accident, Live Stock.
AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
HOW TO MAKE YOUR HAIR
BEAUTIFUL.
TEN MINUTES’ HOME TREATMENT
WORKS WONDERS. STOPS FALL-
ING HAIR, ITCHING SCALP, AND
DANDRUFF. AND MAKES THE
HAIR SOFT. BRILLIANT, LUS-
TROUS AND FLUFFY.
Better than all the so-called “Hair
Tonics” in the world is a simple, old-
fashioned home recipe consisting of plam
Bay Rum. Lavona de Composer, and a
little Menthol Crystals. These three mixed
at home in a few minutes, work wonders
with any scalp. Try it just one night and
see. Get from your druggist 1 oz. Lavona
de Compos4e, 3 ozs. Bay Rum and . dr.
Menthol Crystals. Dissolve the Crystals in
the Bay Rum and pour in a 4-oz. bottle.
Then add the Lavona, shake well and let it
stand for an hour before using. Apply it by
putting a little of the mixture on a son
cloth. Draw this cloth slowly throughi tue
hair, taking just one small strand at a tiine.
This cleanses the hair and scalp of dirt,
dust and excessive oil. and makes the naj
delightfully soft, lustrous and Hurry. 1
stop the hair from falling and to make i
grow again rub the lotion briskly into t
scalp with the linger tips. Apply night ®
morning. A few days’ use and you can
find a single loose or straggling hair,
will be locked on your scalp as tight m,
vyce. Dandruff will disappear and ‘' c "
cease. In ten days you will find fine do
new hairs sprouting up all over your s i.
and this new hair will grow with wonde
rapidity. , . f., r
Any chemist can prepare the at, ° .
you. The prescription _is very inexpe; •
and we know of nothing so effectiv
certain in its results.*
NABOB BOOT PASTE,
the Waterproof
Boot Polish.
ONE APPLICATION WILL LAST A WEEK, A BRUSH UP
BEING ALL THAT IS NECESSARY IN BETWEEN WHILES.
LEWIS & WHITTY, Makers, Melbourne and Sydney, n
“Stohr Ruddell”: Ask a Murrumbidgee
whaler, and he will tell you Narrandera (N.S.W.)
is the champion place of Australia for either beer
or tucker. It is the only country town of any size
through which Matilda may be humped without
calling forth cutting remarks about work from un-
thinking school children. It holds the balance be-
tween Wagga and Hay on the whaler’s main route,
and is the first hurdle the shearer has to negotiate
when, cheque-proud, he takes train for Sydney or
Melbourne. I learnt the secret of Narrandera’s
glory last shearing season from three whalers with
whom 1 camped in a hut at Howlong, outside Carra-
thool. I had given voice to a rumor that rouse-
abouts were wanted at Groongal, seven miles off.
They smiled. “That’s no good to me,” said one.
“They can’t catch me with them jokes. Workin’
five or six weeks, and blowin’ it in Narrandera in a
couple of days. I’ll get in at the cut out, an' catch
Wyvern, Tog., Bringagee, Groongal, Kerarbury and
Benerembah. I'll touch the babblin’ brook here for
a page of scran to-day (it was Friday), do Groongal
on Monday, and work the other sheds down to
Yanco. A man can always fluke a farg there, and
the Johns don’t know how to take him in Narrandera.
That’s where some blokes settle themselves. They
haven’t got enough savee to get out while shearin s
on. They hang around the town, an’ the Johns and
pubs get ’em snouted. The game’s got to be
worked.” I proved the truth of this later in Nar-
randera, when my Howlong friend stood cheerfully
on a pub verandah in the midst of a dozen “cheque-
men.” Admiring and envying his genius for free
drinks, I asked him how long he could last. “If a
man doesn’t do his block, and make himself a nark,”
he replied, “he can put in here till Christmas.
The ’s always a Yanco mob in, but Wagga’s better
after harvest.” From that I gathered that it was
only necessary to keep comparatively sober, to ques-
tion no other man’s bona fides, and to agree that the
man with the money was all that he claimed to be,
and Narrandera would ask no questions. Wherefore
Narrandera is nominated for the best town stakes.
“Pick”: To call a man “a cow” is the
average bushy’s dead-end of argument. The other
day I listened to a lurid dispute between Bill Shearer
and Dan Bullock}', in which the sulphurous vocabulary
of each was drawn upon to the utmost. Bill com-
manded the better stock, and denounced Dan as a
thief, a liar, a Chinaman, and every other degraded
thing, in or out of the dictionary. Dan stood it all
unmoved; but when the sheep-barber wound up his
reproaches by declaring that his opponent was “a
cow,” the latter shot out of his apparel. “You called
me a cow, did yer ?” he shouted. “Put up yer
dooks.” “Well,” said the tomahawker, “yer
mightn’t be a cow, but yer everything else.” Which
Dan accepted as all the apology that the case called
for ; and they went in to “wet it.”
THE UNLUCKY DAY.
GIRL: “Muvver says will you call for the rent
Friday instead of Thursday! ”
RENT COLLECTOR: “Why Friday?"
GIRL: "'Cause we're leaving Thursday."
“Pang” : My struggle for a crust takes me
round the tobacco plantations up in the north of
Ma’s territory. Hi Bung is one of the yellow mul-
titude growing the weed, and Hi and his white
missus had been having a few words. The air was
still hazy when I arrived. Hi was down at the
shed, so Mrs. Hi and I had quite a friendly chat.
She told me of the falling-out. Very interesting, of
course; but I wanted to get to business. So I asked
her when her husband would be back. “Me ’us-
band!” said Mrs. Hi. “Me ’usband! He ain’t me
’usband! It’s bad enough to be livin’ with the old
Chow without bein’ married to him!”
THE POINT OF HEW.
FITZCLARENCE : “ For what we are. about to receive—thanks awfully! ”
“Sess” : One of the Maoriland racing rules
stipulates that: ‘‘No race shall exceed 20 minutes in
duration, and after the expiration
of that time from the start the
judge shall leave the box, and no
horse which shall subsequently
pass the post shall be placed."
One might deduce from this that
the Maoriland steeds are deadly
slow beasts; or the jocks are
addicted to waiting for one an-
other. That, however, is not the
reason. The rule was begotten
of the Autumn Steeplechase, run
at Kllerslie (Auckland) in April,
1884. Of the four horses that
started, the winner, Chandler, rid-
den by Jack Rae, was the only
one to get round without a mis-
hap. A little bay gelding called
Billy-go-by-’em, ridden by .1.
Russell, when running second (the
other pair had died, or something)
stuck up at a fence on the hill,
and a stubborn contest arose be-
tween horse and rider as to which
should prevail. Half an hour
passed, and Billy was still argu-
ing the point. More time slipped
by, and eventually the stew-
ards, in desperation, ordered the
next event to be run. This was a
flat race, and necessitated the re-
moval of the hurdle in the
straight. The sight of the flying
colors coming behind him set
Billy going again. He reached
the straight an hour behind time.
The removed hurdle was hurriedly
re-erected so that Billy-go-bv-’em
could complete the course pro-
perly and enable his owner to
draw second money. A protest
was lodged against this business,
but the stewards threw out the
objection.
“Wandi”: Jones’s horse had rubbed the
bridle off and levanted, what time Jones was busy
in Smith’s licensed tabernacle. Jones’s farm was
three miles out. Nobody had a horse handy that he
wanted to lend, nor was a vehicle to be had at any-
thing like a reasonable rate. The night was wet, and
Jones, who wished to get home urgently for business
reasons, had rheumatism in both legs. So he ambled
up to the doctor’s house, where he wasn’t known,
and besought the medico to come at once to Jones’s
farm. He couldn’t say (in reply to pertinent ques-
tions) what was wrong, except that it was a very
serious case. The doctor’s motor was brought out,
and, jumping into it, they drove furiously through
the miserable drizzle and the miles of slush and bog.
On arrival Jones stepped gratefully down, and
inquired: “What’s your fee, doctor?” “Thirty
bob,” said the medical man in surprise. Mr. Jones
handed up the amount. “Those blamed motor fel-
lows,” he remarked, by way of explanation, “wanted
50 bob to drive me home. Thanks very much,
doctor. Good night.”
“One Dollar”: I was recently batching
with a friend in Gippsland (Vic.), and one Sunday
afternoon decided to attend a service to be held in
the local hall at three o’clock. Arriving 10 minutes
before the business was due to commence, I found
no one about; but, after I had waited a while, a
man arrived who turned out to be “the preacher.”
Accompanying him was an old man, with a dog
following closely. I had often spoken to the old
man before, and knew he owned two dogs, “Spot”
and “Dodger.” The dogs were much attached to
him, and this was the first time I had seen him with
Spot alone. Being therefore curious, I asked where
Dodger was. The old man did not heed my question,
although I repeated it several times. Each time he
would begin a conversation with “the preacher.” I
thought he must be deaf in the ear turned to me,
although 1 had not noticed it before. It seemed that
“the preacher” was interested in my inquiry, too.
Meantime the congregation had rolled up, and as it
was now about time to commence, “the preacher”
left us to open the door of the hall. I was just about
to ask after Dodger yet again, when the old man,
pointing to the hall, said to me in a voice full of re-
proach, “You shouldn’t have kep’ on arstin me that
question in front of him! He’s the dog collector,
and thought 1 had only one dog! ”
“Dry Track” : Re “Flinderino’s” yarn of
the man who carried the door five miles to the
nearest scholar, in order to get a message that was
written on it. There was an old publican, near
Queanbeyan (N.S.W.), who, when electors’ rights
were used some years ago, feared he might mislay
his, as many others had done; so he pasted the
document on the back of his bedroom door. When
election day came round, old Tom found he couldn’t
remove his right without destroying it; but, not to
be beaten, he took both door and right to the
polling booth, some couple of hundred yards down
the street, and recorded his vote.
“Silas Snell” : The barber’s shop at Ewe
neck was next the pub at which I
staying, and on the first afternoon of mv sniJ!!!
I drifted in to be shaved. There were three'
tomers in the saloon, which was of unlined corn
gated iron, and suggested a melting-pot. Haddon
the ambidextrous weed-shifter, was operating
Kelly. Rawbone and Code were discussing religion
and politics on the only chairs, so with customary
modesty I seated myself on the gin-case in a far
corner, and plunged into the Age of the day before
the week previous to yesterday. Rawbone and
Code became loud, then vehement, then vitupera-
tive. Coole struck the first blow; Rawbone re-
sponded with the greatest good will, and the battle
raged round Kelly and the operative. “Gentlemen!
Gentlemen!” said Haddon, in patient expostulation
but he went on shaving his patient. Coole, tottering
from a sledge-hammer bash, crashed into Kelly, and
went down with the lathered non-combatant. •‘Gen-
tlemen! Gentlemen!” complained the barber, as he
rescued Kelly and restored him to the operating
chair. “Do he careful.” Haddon resumed the
shaving of Kelly, and Code, being on end again
rushed Rawbone, and dinted the corrugated iron of
the north wail with his enemy’s head. The next
dash carried the pair right over me, and they
cannoned into Haddon, and buffered him into a
corner, where he remained a moment, with his razor
held aloft, expostulating mildly, “Gentlemen!
Gentlemen!” The fight detached itself from Had-
don. and raged in another corner among the shampoo
basins and ware, so Haddon got at the imperturb-
able Kelly again. The shaving went on in com-
parative peace, while Rawbone tried to drown Coole
by pushing his head into a basin with two inches
of water in it, and kneeling on his neck. But
Coole, by jerking his heel, secured a breakaway,
and the fight roared round the shop once more'
“Gentlemen! Gentlemen!” said Haddon, as he held
Kelly up by the nose and rasped his lip. I smartly
side-stepped the fight, and it tumbled into a small
table littered with bottles of oil and perfume, scat-
tering the stock all over the shop. “Gentlemen!
Gentlemen!” expostulated the presiding mechanic in
all mildness, chasing through the stubble up Kelly’s
right jaw. Here the locked combatants rebounded
from the south wall, crashed into the business
operations, and bore Haddon and his client to the
ground, where the whole four mixed and blended
with reaped hair and detached whiskers and satpsuds
for a space of 80 seconds. Haddon was first up.
He rescued amiable little Edward Kelly from the
tumult, and restored him to his chair. “ Gentlemen!
Gentlemen!” said Haddon, with a trace of weari-
ness. “Do he careful, please. Do you want me to
cut Mr. Kelly?” But the war was drifting in my
TO TIDE HIM OVER.
THE FROWSY ONE: “ Mister , I'd yer lend me
thrippence till th' money market eases up."
direction again, so I dodged it, and went into the
open air. Pending the settlement of the Rawbone-
Coole imbroglio I had changed my mind about being
shaved in the Eweneck Hairdressing Saloon and
Beauty Parlor.
THISTLEDOWN.
[For The Bulletin.]
Was it thistledown, thistledown,
Fluff from some old goblin’s beard,
Wrinkled, apple-cheeked and weird,
Who in fury tore his beard,
Making thistledown?
Was it thistledown, thistledown,
O’er the tree-tops floating,
Tiny sail of pixie ship,
Breath that left an angel’s lip
Speeds the ether boating?
Was it thistledown, thistledown,
Or a blossom uncontent
(Tired of being knit to stem
In some forest diadem)
On adventure bent ?
Was it thistledown. .. .thistledown,
Feather frail my heart to strike?
Was it Love that passed my way,
Blown across a golden day .
Ah, they are so much alike,
Love and thistledown !
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


n
I d
’
•mm-
-4
N
s#sl&
#
-
mz
m
XT'A».-^M-- r
s.
ii
r 4M
s:
2U
3
roil
/.
i/1 if t o o o 11
’.Mi )T —*L_ ( t~ gT W _,M
~—t LaTr^;
s — 1 - walfr
—rrr S@J-r
V .-■:
f.
44
■v
i-flp
WM
rv
4
:•••
>
rag*
<«s
SvJi
£4
sX
4.
rz
> V X
<-’ ) ../-sMrv
V\C>:X/V^
’rt'4 Yy4 444 4~
.
v.
v^v44?M;
f rb2?
El
4
V.-
•v. 4
Ms
*
:-V,:
3&V&
//A'
Xg
I
:>->r
£4'X*4 tV
4
V
°V : .v. :
ys2sB£k\i
IgS&i'V.*
sV%4^J
1*
V
.'V-i-ift
■
•* 7Ky >:
X>'‘. ; r>
4--4
-- tv
l(
Cobra,” Sfre Boot Polish
TINKER
TAILOR
SOLDIER
SAILOR
RICH MAN
POOR MAN
BEGGAR
THIEF
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
is a poor man,
It is true.
Up the plank
You see him roll
With his basket
Full of coal.
Little worldly
Wealth has he;
But he toils on
Happily,
Singing prayers
In Allah’s praise;
“COBRA” brighte
All his days.


* *5 •
*rr x
i ViJ
I ill* w
Q
9mm
r I s
Vi f
1 i =
'll \ Lk.
m
so Mlf
* |,
mmu
mrJiM
VC
Of il
&
The Bishop of Bath and Wells writes : “ The
i value of Formamint as a preventive is
appreciated in this house.”
The Archdeacon of Bristol writes : ‘‘ I habitually
carry Wulfing’s Formamint with me as a
preventive of Sore Throat.”
The Earl of Kilmorey writes : “I am glad to give
my testimony to the soothing and curative
effects of your potent remedy—Formamint,
with which lam so familiar. As is my
constant practice, I keep one of your brown
bottles on my dressing table.”
How to Avoid Infectious Diseases.
Do you realise that most of the dangerous infectious
diseases, such as Diphtheria. Consumption, Influenza, Scarlet
Fever, Measles and the like, are caused by germs which gain
entrance to the body through the mouth and throat ?
The minute living organisms which produce such diseases
grow and develop like the seeds of plants, and the mouth and
throat form an ideal hot-house for cultivating them.
The scientist, of course, can grow them outside the body,
artificially. For example, a test-tube culture of the germs
which cause Consumption is depicted here ; and also a bottle
of Wulfing’s Formamint —the means which Science has found
to destroy such germs in the mouth and throat, and so protect
us against the diseases which they breed.
TT* WULFJNG ’5 • .
rormamint
THE GERM-KILLING THROAT TABLET
These harmless and palatable tablets contain the most
powerful destroyer of disease germs known to Science. They
dissolve in the saliva, and the disinfectant is thus carried to
every little crevice, chink, or cranny in the mouth, gums,
tonsils and throat. Thus all germ growths are sought out and
destroyed, their spread is checked, their power to do harm is
entirely broken.
As a preventive of infectious disease, Formamint Tablets
should be used daily by everyone, in health or sickness, and
they are particularly recommended for school children, who
are so exposed to infection, especially at this time of the year.
Beware, however, of harmful imitations ; there is only one,
genuine Formamint, viz. Wulfing’s, and all Chemists sell it at
2S. 6d. per bottle. The manufacturers, A. Wulfing & Co.,
17, Bond Street, Sydney, N.S.W., will gladly send you a Free
Sample and an interesting Booklet, if you write to them,
mentioning this paper, and enclose two penny stamps towards
postage.
“Gyko” • Here’s the whole strength of the
wreck of the Federal liner Devon at Wel-
lington (M.L.) heads recently, as con-
vincingly set out. by the captain, the first
officer (on the bridge), the second officer
(up aloft), the man at the wheel and the
look-out man :
They had passed the last headland visible in day-
light ' (Turakirae) at a suitable offing, and pre-
sently in the darkness they picked up the beam of
Pencarrow light. Their general direction at the
time was west, and the next caper was to pick up
Somes Island light and turn north into the mouth
of the port. Somes Island has three light sectors—
green, white and red. The business is to get into
the white and then steer straight ahead. They did
it. When the white beam was opened up they laid a
course on-it and steered straight ahead for 12 minutes.
Then a typical Maoriland rain gust swooped up
astern, swept over them, and drove up harbor, blot-
ting out the Somes Island light. They steamed on
by compass for five minutes, and when they got the
rain out of their eyes managed to pick up a little
red fixed light. This happened to be a fad light of the
harbormaster’s placed on Falcon shoal (near the en-
trance) and cursed from time immemorial by master
mariners. In their simplicity, the steerers of the
Devon imagined that they had got out of the white
Somes sector into the red sector, and the helm was
put over. The crash came next minute. The har-
bormaster’s fad light had practically engineered the
wreck. But Maoriland wasn’t going to have its
harbormasters and navigation lights knocked about
like that, so the Court solemnly found that the
Devon had never been inside the Somes Island white
sector at all, which was tantamount to saying that
the five men who were the only witnesses on the
situation were plain, unblushing land agents, or
even commercial travellers.
“Dacapede Bay” : The bad habits of these
Westralian State-owned steamers on the
Nor’-West run are likely to provide some
stupid Tory paper with empty arguments
against State ownership, whereas the blame
rests on bad administration —the same sort
of bad administration which often lands Pri-
vate Enterprise in the Bankruptcy Court.
The water shipped on a recent northern run
from Fremantle was bad, and tea made from
it was undrinkable. When you got enough
to wash with it was too filthy to use, and
when it wasn’t too filthy for use you couldn’t
get it. During the voyage a shower fell, and
the steward caught it as it ran off the deck ;
so, clean or not clean, we had one drink of
good tea. We were days behind time, by
reason of bad coal —rubbish sold to the Gov-
ernment at top price. We were 26 hours
from Fremantle to Geraldton, and the usual
time is 19 hours. This steamer was once a
Bussian boat, and was chased by the Japs,
hut had too much foot for them, so I reckon
the brown dwarfs must have been pursuing
on rafts. Full ahead in smooth water it can
do nine knots. And, apart from the ships,
political captains and party ships’ companies
are no good unless they’re as good as the
average crew that isn’t political.
“Simon” : There will be no special exhibi-
tion of Australian-made goods in Sydney
shop-windows this year, but there will be.
’tis said,, a special uncorking of patriot zeal
next year,. And then I will, as usual,
make a '(scoffing round of business houses
which display our own goods for advertising
purposes during five days, and turn them
down religiously the other 360. I claim to
be a manufacturer of decent local goods,
and I will take my oath that any number
of firms which flaunt the “All Australian”
label on such occasions would almost as
soon file their schedule as give a local manu-
facturer a chance where things were about
equal. The reason is this: They want ex-
clusive goods, and they also want to sell at
their usual 50 per cent, profit. Whatever
else they are, local goods are hardly exclu-
sive ; and, besides, there is the danger of
other firms selecting the same lines and
selling at their usual SO per cent. on. The
danger, of course, is that the public will
tumble to the difference in prices. This, is
called “getting caught.” Any clothing, shirt,
tie or hat maker will tell you the same.
Still, things are imnroving, and to-day the
drummer of Australian goods is occasion-
ally sent on his way rejoicing by hearing a
customer demand the Australian article.
♦
The man who is stricken by bis conscience
and refunds the money is often painfully
long-winded. He loves to explain on paper
how his better feelings were gradually awak-
ened, partly by the ministrations of the Rev.
Mr. Foozle, partly by reading the twentieth
verse of the fourth chapter of Ruth, and
partly by marriage and a natural desire to
hand down an unblotted reputation to his
daughter Keziah, now seven years of age and
already in the Second Reader. Then he
darkly signs himself “Repenter” or “Balm of
Gilead,” or something of the sort, and en-
closes 2d. That is the unbusiness-like peni-
tent. The business-like one whirled down on
the N.S.W. railways the other day. He
enclosed 305., with the short remark : “What
IOU.” And Johnson wanted 30s. badly just
then.
A Bulletin correspondent says tha.t a
Foreign Office official told him the following :
Joseph J. Neave, Quaker, who died in Syd-
ney recently achieved, in the course of his
strenuously altruistic career, at least one
triumph that may almost be placed in the
miracle class. Twenty-five years ago he
was a small storekeeper at Queanbeyan
(N.S.W.). It was borne in on him that he
had a mission to relieve the sufferings of the
Russian Stundists, who at that time were
being persecuted vigorously by the adherents
of the Orthodox Church. However, he had
hardly sufficient money to take him to Syd-
ney, much less to Russia. A relative died
unexpectedly and left him £2OO. He went
at once to London. At a large Quaker meet-
ing there he rose up and explained his pur-
pose, which was to go to Russia and tackle
the job of saving the Stundists with his own
hands. Those present were so impressed
bv his earnestness, or something, that they
offered him a considerable sum of money.
He said, “No. The Lord had commissioned
him for this service, and He had made all
the requisite arrangements,” or words to
that effect. The Foreign Office got wind of
his projected adventure, and offered him a
letter of introduction to the British Ambas-
sador in St. Petersburg. He refused, on the
ground that such a missive would be a
“Sword of the Flesh,” whereas the only
weapon he meant to use was of Spiritual
make. Arrived in Russia, he went straieht
to see Pobiedonosteff. who in those days and
for many years afterwards, was the official
head in all ecclesiastical matters. Inciden-
tally. be was one of the most enthusiastic of
the persecutors. Pobiedonosteff happened to
arrive at liis home just as Neave was being
ejected, with contumely, by a porter. He
asked, in English, what was the matter.
Neave replied in the same tongue (the fact
being that he knew no other) with a series of
Quaker salutations and greetings. The
Quaker phraseology has its counterpart, more
or less, in the ordinary colloquial language of
Russia. Pobiedonosteff. who had never be-
fore encountered an Englishman of this type,
became interested, and asked Neave inside.
Ultimately he took him to the Czar. The
Czar was so impressed by the N. S. Wales
trader’s presentment of the case for Stundism
that he did an almost unprecedented thing.
He issued a rescript, which gave. Neave
authority to investigate the whole situation,
cross-examine officials, etc., inspect those
prisons where the Stundists were confined,
and get details as to the treatment of all
religious confinees. Amongst other things,
the rescript called upon all Russians to aid
Neave in his investigations, to the utmost of
their ability. Neave’s report was made
direct to the Czar. The effect of it was to
produce a complete reform in the attitude of
the Government and the Church towards the
Stundists. As soon as he realised that all
was well, or, at any rate, as well as it
humanly could be, this astonishing man
returned unobtrusively to Australia, and,
without any public mention of his triumph
settled down to the old life. It is a queer
commentary on the disproportionateness of
things that one who, like Neave. carried
through a venture that made many thousands
happy should have died in comparative
obscurity.
Concerning some early land-hunters :
Mr. G. 11. F. Cox, great-grandson of that Captain
William Cox who built the first road over the Blue
Mountains (N.S.W.), has written a history of Mudgee
from the day on which his grandfather camped at
Menah (or Munna), in 1821. William Lawson, one
of the three who had crossed the Mountains in 1813,
was commandant at Bathurst, and in his spare time
made excursions into new territory. In an expedition
towards Liverpool Plains he crossed the country now
known as Mudgee, but failed to reach Liverpool
Plains. On his return to Bathurst, he informed his
friend George Cox, then managing Hereford for his
father, Wm. Cox, of the splendid pastoral country
through which he had passed, and advised him to
secure some of it. To this suggestion George Cox
lent a copious ear. After consulting his father, he
set out, early in 1821, accompanied by
Richard Lewis, who had been Captain Cox’s
overseer in the road-making, and William Lee, the
founder of the Bathurst Lee family, who had worked
with Lewis on the road. Taking with them two
“servants,” they travelled as far as Tabragar, and
found the country all that could be desired, except
for a scarcity of permanent water. All three-;
land, water and herbage—were, however, found in
what is' now known as Mudgee. Returning to
Bathurst, George Cox sent for his brother Henry,
who was managing at Mulgoa for his father. The
pair, with Richard Lewis and 500 head of cattle,
two stockmen and two laborers, set off for the
promised land. They followed the track originally
blazed by Lawson until they reached Menah, where
they decided to settle. In th§ night the cattle
stampeded, and a davlight search found them at
Burrundulla Swamp, which years after became the
homestead. The huge gum-tree close to the river
bank, where the brothers first camped, is still stand-
ing. The Cox family will allow no axe to touch it
William Lawson followed the Coxes, and, as in dutv
bound, to him, as discoverer, King gave first pick
of the country. He chose the other side of the river,
and there the Lawsons still hold country. The his-
tory has been tvnewritten and bound. Only six conies
have been issued, and these are for the Cox family
and friends. But the booklet should be published, as
it is a valuable contribution to the history of Dinner
settlement west of the Blue Mountains. p neer
All things considered, it is an extraor-
dinary fact that Frank Madden has had the
longest innings of any Speaker of the Vic-
Assembly, save the original Francis Mur-
phy. who kept company with the Mace
from 1850 to 1871. None of the following
10 Speakers lasted longer than seven years.
Then came Frank Madden in 1904, and he
is still disguising his natural non-dignit.v
under the Speaker’s wig. For nine long
years the Vic. Assembly has been content
to regard Frank as its First Commoner.
Probably the best index to the character
of a nation is to be found in the sort of
advertisements it publishes. When A.S.W.
was a lot less decent than it now is, it
allowed the great dailies to print the ap-
peals of obviously quack doctors, villain-
ously quack medicines guaranteed to cure
anything from impecuniosity to large feet,
establishments devoted to pre-natal murder
and other iniquities. This type of ad. still
gets through occasionally, but only occa-
sionally. The country has grown more
decent, and the daily paper has had to do
likewise. The writer picked up a Yankee
sporting publication the other day, and
having glanced through its columns, he lit
a very bad cigar to disinfect the atmosphere.
Imagine a community depraved enough to
allow manufacturers to advertise marked
cards, loaded dice; and bogus money. The
United States /does, and marked cards are
obtainable at one'dollar a pack, impossibility
of detection guaranteed, and money re-
turned if found unsatisfactory—strictly
honest dealing in the tools of robbing and
swindling. “Crap Dice” are $2 a pair,
and again money is returned if the goods
are proved unsatisfactory. Hand-colored
“stunning female beauty cards,” 25 cents
for packet of five ; “Four Nifty Photos 10
cents”; “Twenty Confessions of Twenty
Divorced Women —a thriller from cover to
cover” ; “Classy Den Pictures. $1 for 15 —
no two alike” : “Sneezing Powder. Great-
est joke out. Blow a little in the air and
everybody must sneeze. 25 cents a bottle”:
“B 4 & After! A Maiden’s Dream. 12 r<ch
art gems, all 10 cents”; and last but not
least this :
The Rose Door, a brand new book. The first one
of the kind ever published. It gives a vivid account
of the actual lives of four fallen girls, the cause of
their downfall and whv they could never reform. A
complete history of life at the Greatest Resort on
earth. 200 pages, cloth bound, illustrated.
RONDEAU.
[For The Bulletin.]
Her billet-doux was surely penned
Where fragrant airs their whispers blend
W ith murmurs of Hymettian bee,
With lazy laugh of Lesbian sea,
With blue delight of bays that bend,
With frankincense that shepherds vend
What time their weary wand’rings end
In some proud city, towered and free
Her billet-doux!
I hear thee say, my cynic friend,
And words of cautious counsel spend;
But, if thou doubt she lives for ine
Who thus could write: “I love but tneer -
I blame thee not —thou hast not kenned
Her billet-doux 1
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.


m
%
\V
%
H
A
urn
Some Reasons for adopting the
Detachable Rim.
(a) It insures your car against all the trouble attending a breakdown.
(b) It can be fitted quickly and with ease.
(c) It is particularly suitable for this country, where the tyres are frequently exposed to
tnjuiy by running on rough and irregular roads.
If the weight of your car approaches the limit of resistance of the tyres,
the adoftion of Michehn Detachable Rims affords a means of remedying
the def ect. Order Detachable Rims for tyres of the next section larger.
To be obtained from all the leading Oarages.
ANZ. 14
THE LONE HAND ” for Good Stories and Bright Articles. Price 6d.
-a.1823
i1jN.1345
THE VERY LATEST!
The Last Word in Oil Tractors
is undoubtedly
“MARSHALL.”
OUR Principals (Messrs. Marshall Sons & Co., Ltd.)
have spent a huge sum of money to perfect and place
on the market
The Only Successful and Reliable Oil Tractor.
Many so-called Oil Tractors recently sold in this State are
now “ OUT OP' COMMISSION ” Or FITTING UP SOME GAP IN
the farm FENCE, but the “MARSHALL' 1 is demon-
strating all over the World its claim to the title of
"The World’s Champion Oil Tractor.”
MADE IN TWO SIZES—
Class E equals 16 ordinary farm-horse
power, 30 to 35 B.H.P.
Class F equals 32 ordinary farm-horse
power, 60 to 70 B.H.P.
Fitted with Two-speeds, Winding Drum, Awning, Plowing
Draw Bar, in addition to Hauling Bar.
USES ORDINARY KEROSENE AS FUEL.
SEND FOP CATALOGUES
CASH OR LIBERAL TERMS.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO. LTD.
161 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Engineers’ Depot.


Ushers
Green Stripe
Whisky
»;-a
..Mi
r-pt,
W
cZ
✓-7
ylMf
03
i
J 5
%
\
V ‘ V^
XU
WCJs.
V./
%
i
tv
ai
2
1
yyi
rU
9*~
<s^
/SW"
1
m
THE FAVOURITE
Backer— H’m, GREEN STRIPE by USHER out of BLACK BOTTLE.
well! i don’t think that can be beaten!


£3lO/-
£4
LaHv’s Solid Gold, Improved
ri'Keyless WATCH,
J-plate, full jew-
elled Lever move-
ment, patent, ad-
justed balance,
accurate, reliable,
£3/10/- Higher
grade, £4.
Latest
Style
Silk
Ribbon
Guard,
9ct.
Gold
Mounts
and Shield,
Single,
22/6.
Double,
£2.
Australia’s Great Watch House!
aunders
SYDNEY S LEADING JEWELLER
10|-
Lady’s Black, Open Face
Ivcyless WATCH, full jewelled,
dust and waterproof cases, ac-
curate, reliable, 8/6
Higher grades, 10/-, 12/6
15/-, 20/-, 25/-
The PRACTICAL WATCHMAKER.
The House famed all over Australasia for
good Timekeepers, Accurate and Reliable.
WRITE FOR FREE WATCH BOOKLET.
M
%
v<
-S'
A
ORDER
BY MAIL.
WE PAY
POSTAGE.
£5.
Lady’s Solid Gold, Patent Expanding: WRISTLET
WATCH, full jewelled, reliable movement. Accurate.
Higher Grade, £5/10/-, £O/10/-
40/-
50 1-
Lady’s Gold, Open Face Key-
less WATCH, fancy dial, full
jewelled, adjusted balance, ac-
curate, reliable, £2.
Higher grades, £2/10/-
£3/10/-
55/-
60/-
Gent.’s Patent, 10 years’ guaranteed. Gold
Cased, Hunting, Keyless WALTHAM
WATCH, full jewelled, compensation bal-
ance, dust and waterproof cases. Accur-
ate, reliable, 55 /- 20 vears’ guaran-
teed, £4/4/- Solid Gold, £6/10/-.
£7/10/-, up to £3O.
12j6
15/-
20/-
25|-
Gent.’s Nickel, Open Pace, Keyless
LEVER, full jewelled, patent, adjusted
balance, non-mag-netic time spring, dust
and waterproof cases, 12/6, 157-
Higher Grade, 20/-, 25/- Guaranteed.
25/-
30/-
Gent.’s Solid Nickel Silver, Hunting, Kev-
less LEVER WATCH, high-grade move-
engine-turned cases, non-magnetic
full jewelled, dust and waterproof cases,
25 /- Higher Grade, 30/- Solid Sil-
ver, 30/-, 35/- Extra jewelled, 40/-,
50/-, 60/-, up to £5.
25 1-
30J-
Lady’s Solid Silver Hunting
Keyless LEVER WATCH, j-
plate, patent, adjusted move-
ment, 25/-, 30/-. Higher
grades, 35/-, 40/-, 50/-.
60/-
LADY’S
WRISTLET
WATCH,
Oxidised
Case,
reliable
movement,
Morocco
or other
Lea tin r
Straps,
10/.,
12/6,
15/-,
20/
107-
Lady’s Wristlet
WATCH. •
807-817 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A High - Class Cigarette
at a Moderate Price.
Do not buy anything but the best the
world can produce ; “ Winfred ” cigarettes
are the last word in cigarette quality.
66
CIGARETTES
10
for
6 d
Plain or Gold Tipped
TO BE OBTAINED EVERYWHERE
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
20
for
1 /»
Sole Manufacturers: ARDATH TOBACCO Co., Ltd., London, Eng.


The Secret of Dressing Well
lies in tlie choice of little details that impart a
note of distinction and smartness.
The man who wears the hats, collars, shirts,
cravats, etc., that wo endorse stands apart from
the average.
llave you a copy of .our Jiooklet, “The Mirror
of Fashion”?
PEPPERS LIMITED,
310 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
7>yf.
. . . DRINK . . .
DANIEL CRAWFORD’S
PURE SCOTCH WHISKY.
CRAWFORD'S is recognised by connoisseurs as being the
FINEST VERY OLD SCOTCH. It is a Superior Whisky
of Superb Flavor and Perfect Purity, and NEVER
FAILS TO PLEASE. _
As Supplied to the “P. $ 0.” and other large Shipping Companies.
POLITICAL
POINTS
THE RISING TIDE.
The throwing out of Meehan, member for
the Darling (N.S.W.), has become so nearly
an everyday function that his final vanish-
ment at the end of the session will be a
relief. (He has lost the party nomination,
so presumably he will return to the West
to hold converse with the bears and kan-
garoos. ) Meantime, it would be a kindly
act to suspend him for the rest of the ses-
sion and pair him with Wood. No one could
seriously object to the suspension of Wood.
Poor old unready China has no luck. Two
*or three Japanese got killed by parties that
the Crockery Republic couldn’t control; they
got in front of an insurrection, and waved a
Jap flag, and in effect asked the insurgents
to shoot at the tails of their coats, and the
insurgents shot accordingly. Japan de-
manded about half the globe as compensation
and China accepted its proposals without a
kick. Then Japan decided that it had been
too moderate, and it has apparently re-opened
the question, and wants more compensation.
And presumably China!, which hasn’t had a
streak of good fortune since it cut off its
pigtail, will have to cave in once more.
Even the kindly old S. M. Herald has its
embittered moments, and it came near to
hoisting the flag of bloodshed and disem-
bowelment and insurrection in its leader ot
September IS, re Victoria’s claim to the
country between the Murrumbidgee and the
present border-line. It got so far on its
foaming career as to state that: Should
she [Victoria] succeed in tearing territory
from New South Wales—a possibility which
we absolutely deny —she [Victoria | must
see that her own fate would be decided almost
at a moment’s notice.” So apparently
Melbourne is going to be burned in short
order. The problem, after all, is a very
simple one. The decision of the British
Government was that the north-eastern
boundary of Victoria was to a beeline
drawn from Cape Howe to the nearest
headwaters of the Murray 1 liver, and after
that the water was to be the boundary. In
the then general ignorance of geography
the line was drawn from Cape Howe to
the Indi River, which falls into the Mur-
ray. It is now known that a line drawn
to the Murrumbidgee, which a[so falls into
the Murray, would have been much shorter,
and that line would have given Riverina to
Victoria. Apparently the legal right is with
Victoria, but New South Wales has the
right of long possession. So there is
material for an interesting scrap.
HIS BEST GIRL.
Mr. Matthews: Why was the fleet taken into the
danger zone, when there were so many clean ports
that it could be taken to?
The Prime Minister: I don’t know why they are
being taken into the danger zone. I have no doubt
the men have been vaccinated, and are willing to
face anything, even small-pox.
Item, from the Federal Parliament.
THE OTHER: “Hussy!"
Commonwealth Statistician Knibbs _is
going to haye another try at ascertaining
how the money goes. Two years back he
issued specially-prepared account books to
householders who 1 were willing to keep them
posted, but not enough householders were
willing to make the data of much value.
Now, Cost of Living being still a very
healthy and active bogey, he is asking for
volunteers to keep their domestic accounts
for a month instead of the former year. In
particular, he wants returns from persons
with very small incomes. The information
will, of course, be treated as strictly confi-
dential. Knibbs’s address is the Bureau of
Statistics, Melbourne.
From the Vic. State Gallery :
Even the press gang didn’t expect Prendergast’s
retirement. In the early part of his career he and
Watt played a game of in-and-out. “Pren” entered
Parliament in 1894, for North Melbourne, but was
ousted by Watt in 1897. Then in turn he ousted
Watt, who thereafter was out of politics for several
years, unable to squeeze in anywhere, albeit he had
done well enough in the House to be given a seat
in the McLean Cabinet. Prendergast succeeded
Bromley as Labor leader in 1904,' Somehow, nobody
could think of him as a Premier. If Anstey had
stayed in State politics he would have taken the
lead now, and might soon have arrived at the Pre-
miership. But he wouldn’t have had much back-
ing, for th 6 Laborites in the Victorian Parliament
are a weak lot. Elmslie, the new leader, has no
distinction, and is not equal to Prendergast. Watt
whacks ’the lot of them in every debate. Next to
Elmslie is Robert Solly—able, but too quietly philo-
sophic. Next must be reckoned John -Lemmon. Good
qualities again, but he never seems to get beyond
the juvenile-lead stage. These men droop beside
Anstey, Tudor, Russell and even Findley, all of
them in the National House, as the best men should
be.
A Flying Item :
If Senator Millen doesn’t restrain his rash haste
he may yet accomplish something towards starting
Australia’s aviation corps. The present position is
as follows. Early this year the Fisher Government
ordered a Bristol' biplane. It was stored in Sydney
pending the arrival of the imported fliers. The first
thing the experts were called upon to do was to
choose a site. They selected Point Cook, adjacent
to Port Phillip Bay. Then Minister Millen happened
—and profound inaction. The site, of 750 acres,
may be presently acquired, at the stipulated price
of £BOOO, if nothing untoward intervenes, but there
is no certainty that something won’t intervene. Also
a “hangar” must be built. A hangar is a common
wood-and-tin shed, which a half-dozen carpenters
could build in a week. (This is mentioned merely
to dispel the idea that it is an enterprise ranking in
order of vastness with the construction of a cathe-
dral.) Meanwhile the biplane has been humped to
Melbourne and unpacked, and found to be in s a
hopeless state of health. The canvas wings are rotten
and other parts are in such a condition that no
sane aviator would care to risk his life in them or
on them. It would probably be cheaper as well as
safer —the biplane cost £lOOO, and the canvas alone
will cost £lO0 —to get a new ’plane. Alternatively,
the country might get a new Minister.
This is the time when the aspiring politi-
cian gets all the trouble that is coining to
him. First he stands for the nomination.
Then, if he has luck, he stands for the elec-
tion. Then he doesn’t sit for the constitu-
ency, but he feels very much exhausted about
the feet. . .
A sense of shame, or something akin to it,
has at last induced a block of M estralian
Parliamentarians to withdraw their opposi-
tion to a railway to run inland from Fspei-
ance Bay. on the south coast. The original
proposition, so bitterly fought against, was
to join Esperance with Kalgoorlie. 11ns
would have meant decentralisation, because
some goldfields’ trade would be diverted
from Fremantle and Perth. The converts
still insist that the goldfields are a pigeon
that belongs to Fremantle and 1 ertn ex-
clusively, wherefore they have _ stipulated
that the line shall go only 60 miles inland
from the bay. So long as it stops there
the goldfields’ pigeon will still be then-
pigeon. It’s a wretched stipulation; still,
60 miles is a stage, and the goldfields can
talk about the rest afterwards.
It was during a debate on the Federal
electoral laws, at the Women’s Fashionable
League’s conference at Ballarat, that one
rabid “Liberal,” Mrs. Ottery, complained of
the blind and deaf being allowed to vote.
“If it were not for the blind and deaf vot-
ing,” remarked the lady (Age 19/9/lo),
“Mr McKay would have been returned for
Ballarat.” This statement was vigorously
applauded, after which several other irra-
tional leaguers (whose statements were also
vigorously applauded) voiced strong con-
demnation of the Labor party for abolishing
the postal vote, and thus “depriving old
people and invalids of the power to exercise
the franchise” !
Michael Burke, one time an alderman of
the City of Sydney, has been elected again
to that eminent municipal synod, repre-
senting Pyrmont ward, vice Andy Kelly,
deceased. In its haste to impart the good
news, a special edition of the Government
Gazette was issued four days after the
election, and three days after everyone inter-
ested had heard about it. This was not
done to give Michael some extra swank, but
because some fool of an Act ordered it to be
done. What the billygoat of a law would
have done if nobody had brought out the
special Gazette the ass of a Statute doesu t
say.
Ex-Premier Verran (S.A.), lately relieved
of the Labor leadership, has been letting Ins
tongue run away again. He was inveighing
against the wickedness of the Government in
cutting off the mining town of Wallaroo
from the agricultural part of the district in
order to give the Liberals a chance of getting
in a member or two. His cue was to slang
the Ministry, but he switched off on to the
farmers. Providence had been too good to
them ; nine fat years had swelled their heads,
he said. Two good years followed by two
bad years to keep them humble was. his
prescriotion. The Labor paper unwisely
printed the speech, and then there was the
Devil to pay, for the farming vote controls
two-thirds of the Assembly, and if it were
all turned against Labor the Liberals would
have a gaudy time. In the struggle to make
capital out of the ex-leader’s words, it hasn’t
mattered a bit, of course, that poor blunder-
ing old Verran roared just what the very
best Tories whisper—that what is wanted is
a bad year or two to bring the wage-earners
to their senses.
THE WANDERING GENTILE—AND
HIS GILDED GUIDING SPHERES.
Our motto must be “look forward,” for the future
is ours....The past is gone; the present is with us;
and the future is before us....We have always
looked to the future for our guide. —State Premier’s
spasm.
To, like a wanderer (the golden sun now gone)
Through the encircling gloom, lead thou, Oh,
lead me on!
r jj / /3s=v
Four old State Labor leaders have go ne
out and four new ones have come in during
the last months. Ryan, in Rananalaml
succeeded Bowman ; Crawford Vaughan re-
placed Verran in South Aus.; Ilolman has
taken McGowen’s place in the Ma State'-
and now Prendergast, in Vic., retires in
favor of Elmslie. 111-health lias been th e
general excuse—the ill-health ol the partv
mostly.
A PLAUSIBLE APPEAL .
Mr. Wade began with an appeal for the sinking
of personalities during the campaign.
An electioneering item.
THE “SPORT” : “Ah' I see it agen, Missus
OIman —if ye're all that y' orler be, yer
would leave yer dishcloth be'ind an ’ come
aown ’ere an face vie in the straight , clean ,
ladylike fashion that the neighbors all
know vie by !”
Thus Premier Holman, of N.S.AV., at
Dubbo: “It was true that the Government
had raised large loan funds, and spent
them, and it was prepared to keep on doing
it.” Yes, but is Cohen prepared to keep on
filling ’em up? Holman talks as if it were
the drunk and not the publican who decides
when it is time for the spree to end.
All goods traffic leaves the Adelaide rail-
way station yard this week for the new
goods-sheds at Mile End, just outside the
western boundary of the city. The passenger
trains that still run from all points into the
bottle-necked North Terrace station will now
be able to sort themselves out better; but
they will all still have to go out the same
way as they came in, and the problem of
making a circuit becomes a more difficult
and costly one with every year that passes.
THE GOOD YOUNG MAN AND SOME BAD, OLD
ONLY JOE.
[For The Bulletin.]
It is also known that, whilst Mr. Massey-Creene
(the Liberal Whip) was scampering round the land-
scape, trying to secure sufficient members to make
up a quorum, Colonel Ryrie and Mr: 1 igott (i . ► .
Wales) were out in the tennis-court, swathed in
immaculate flannels. .. .Alas! the Liberal ]® ade !j
lacks in the Napoleonic qualifications of couiageand
audacity! —Sunday paper.
lie does not rage and get things done. He does
not stamp and roar,
Until through sheer ferocity he holds the shaking
floor.
Where is his splendid strategy of which we used
to hear ?
It seems as if the press had pulled the public s leg
or ear.
He only holds his splendid job with little flags of
truce,
And lets the aching country go entirely to the deuce.
While Colonel Ryrie, flannel-wrapped, indulges in
mild sport,
See how the futile leader wilts and holds the help-
less fort!
He does not look like Caesar ! No! this poor wretch
brought to book
Resembles no one else but poor, ill-fated Joseph
Cook.
The small-gauge dog who simply barks and yaps
outside a fence
Is in the soup when he gets in and tries to look
immense.
Why doesn’t he dash out and fight with mighty,
foam-flecked jaws,
And make the Tiger bite the dust? Why does he
sniff and pause?
Napoleon didn’t act like that! You 11 see in any
tome
That Nap would sally forth and chase the howling
foeman home.
Cook has no right to skulk inside! Like something
from a gun
He should fly out to battle. That majority of one
Is quite Napoleonic. But at risks Joe will not lobk.
He says he ain’t Napoleon —he is only pore Joe
Cook!
N.S.W.
INCURABLE LIBERAL.
FINANCE.
[For The Bulletin.]
They would find that he had not been extravagant.
He felt sorry for the man who was to follow him
“We have in reality 48 millions in business
undertakings, producing revenue, whilst the balance
of 24 millions, though not in active reproduction,
produces revenue indirectly just the same! The
resources of the State are so unlimited and the
outlook so good that we will have no trouble in
finding money to finance things.’’ — N.S.W. Treasurer
Cann, according to S. M. lleisald.
A certain Minister named Cann —
A plain and unpretentious* man —
Was put in charge
Of spendings large—
And that was when the fun began!
The constable he soon outran,
Egged on by others of the clan;
And in a year,
Or so, ’twas clear
He’d beat all records by a span!
AVith high aplomb and great elan
He scattered sovereigns by the cran,
Or basket-full —
He had the “pull,”
For there was none to bar or ban!
He paid no heed to “if” and “an,”
But, like a modern Kubla Khan,
Went straight ahead
With loans, and said —
“The whole wide world shall come and scan
The noble works we mean to plan
Yea! from Be-ersheba to Dan
Our name and fame
Shall brightly flame —
At finance we are in the van!”
He crowed like any wild Houdan
Before it frizzles in the pan !....
’Twixt you and me,
I think that he
Is marching on to his Sedan —
He’ll find out by the first of Jan.
N.S.W.
MONTY PEET.


The Finest Piano Made in England
The
Delightful
Sames Piano.
JUsi
Si®*’
For tone quality and touch, for workmanship and
finish, for sound construction and durability, the
BRITISH-BUILT SAMES PIANO is unsur-
passed. The very finest materials and timber are
used in its construction, the artisans employed are
men of vast experience, and each instrument is subject
to the scrupulous attention of the principals of this
great Birmingham factory.—
Artistic in Tone Quality
Responsive in Touch.
Those who know what real value is, who insist on QUALITY PLUS
DURABILITY, accept the SAMES PIANO as the highest standard
of the British piano-maker’s art. ———-
SOLD FULLY GUARANTEED
and on EASY TERMS.
SAMES PIANOS in several handsome models,
each instrument fully guaranteed, are sold by
us for cash or on easy time payments. You
are invited to visit our Show Rooms and
inspect. Catalogues and Price Lists are post
free if unable to call.
SOLE AGENTS
FOR
SAMES PIANOS,
338 George St., Sydney.
And at
Newcastle, Lismore, Brisbane, Toowoomba
The leviathan suit to
MEASURE must please you, or we
alone pay for your disappointment.
For our Guarantee specifically lays it
down that the Suit we make for you must
fit and satisfy you in all respects, or we
are the losers and you pay not one penny.
...Our principle is “ The Customer is
always right."
Sample then, at our risk, the ex-
cellence of Leviathan Tailoring.
Order a
Suit to Measure
at 52/6
(Our Hail Order Special)
And with the Leviathan Guarantee
as your assurance of the utmost in
Good Tailoring, expect a splendid
result.
Please write for Patterns and Measurement
Forms. Use the Coupon.
The Leviathan,
c/o Swanston and Bourse Streets,
Melb.
Please send me a Pattern Selection of
your new Spring Suitings at 52/6. This
request incurs no obligation.
Name ,
Address
Btn. 25/9/13.
CATALOGUE POST FREE.
We Pay Freight to any part of Australia,
(°mer Swanson c BourKe srs5 rs Melbourne
<56=3
V . _
0273
*-•
.
PRISM
BINOCULARS.
REMAIN UNRIVALLED for
flechanical and Optical Perfection.
FOR THE
A.J.C. Spring Meeting
You Will Need a Good Glass.
Before deciding on a purchase be sure and see the New
Zeiss Models with Centre Focussing Screw.
MAXinUM LIGHT.
PERFECT DEFINITION.
Write to your Optician for Illustrated Descriptive Booklet.
Reputable Opticians will not try to substi-
tute another Glass when asked for ZEISS.
Just Right or We Pay.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Absolutely Pure.
No Preservatives
E. RESCH’S LIMITED , Brewer by Appoint-
ment to his Excellency the Governor-General.
Brewery and Offices : Dowling Street, Redfern, Sydney
West Australian Agents RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and QOOLCARDIE.
ALMOST BLIND.
SPOTS BEFORE THE EYES CAUSED
BY LIVER DISORDERS.
Mr. Tom Holt, whose remarkable state-
ment is published below, is another example
of what Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills have
done for one who has suffered from that
most common trouble, “A Liver.” Mr. Holt
is an old resident and property holder of
Bondi Junction, and now living at 55 Stan-
ley Street, Sydney, N.S.W., and his state-
ment is a voluntary one and purely an ex-
MR. TOM HOLT
(from a photo.).
pression of gratitude
for the benefit he has
derived from taking
Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills. He* tried
doctors and hospital
treatment to no avail,
and actually states
that these pills saved
his life. He has been
taking them now for
ten years, and still
continues to recom-
mend them.
“W ithout Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root
Pills I don’t know
what would become of me. For a number
of years I have suffered with a sluggish
liver, which produced constipation to such
an extent that sometimes I have gone for
days without a movement of the bowels.
Spots appeared floating before my eyes, and
I almost went blind, and got so bad that 1
went to the hospital as an outdoor patient.
They treated me for my eyes, but with no
result —in fact, I became worse. Someone
told me my blindness was due to , liver
trouble, and recommended Dr. Morse’s In-
dian Root Pills, which I began using with
the most gratifying results. In a short
time my sifirht was as good as ever, and the
spots which had been floating in the air
were gone, to my great relief. I was in
such a condition that work was impossible,
because I was sleepy and drowsy all the
time, with no energy to do anything. This
was ten years ago, and I have continued
the use of the pills ever since, taking two
or three as I need them. I believe they
saved my life, and I consider them a most
valuable medicine. From time to time
have been persuaded to try other remedies,
but I never got the benefit I received from
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. In fact, the
other medicines are of no use. lam an old
resident of Bondi Junction, and now living
at 55 Stanley Street, Sydney, _am well
known, and have much pleasure in making
this statement, which is voluntarily given,
and will always be ready to personally con-
firm same.
(Signed)
“TOM HOLT.”
Mr. Holt’s trouble was Liver, which upset
he whole system of digestion and nutri-
ion. Many people are suffering from detec-
ive eyesight due to this cause, and it the.'
ut the Liver right they would have no neen
o trouble with glasses. Defective e 7 esl f .
3 only one of the many effects of a slugg
iver, which upsets the whole system.. cau -
ng Indigestion, Biliousness. Constipar
nd the hundred and one other complai
hat accompany them.*
PIONEER
LEATHER
THE, BELTING THAT SAVES POWER-
By giving the utmost in grip, in strength and in smooth running
“PIONEER” Leather Belting
saves power.
Under all conditions and for all classes of machinery its use will produce the maximum of efficiency.
Every foot guaranteed. Let us send you prices and full particulars of Pioneer Belting.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD,
•» 117
YORK
Pioneer Works,
RK STREET, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Nigel Barker, champion N.S.W. amateur
sprinter of five years ago, is the latest to attempt
to “come back.” The attraction is the promised,
though undecided, visit of the five Yankee sprint
champions early next year. Barker had a few trials
with the Great Public Schools cracks when they
were training last week, and left them all behind;
so it the Yankee visit does eventuate, the ex-Sydney
University sprinter should give a good account of
himself. He still has four Australian records to his
name: 200yds., 19 9-10 sec. ; 220yds., 21 4-ssec. ;
300yds., 31sec. ; and 440yds., 48isec. The event he
has his eye on this time is the 440yds.
“0.K.”: Bonnie Ruby Roberts and boy
Walter Lindrum, properly boomed and staged, might
be worth a good many hundred pounds gate-money
in England this coming winter. Considered as a
draw for the public in general, rather than for
billiard cranks and experts in particular, the maiden
arid the lad would be more effective than any pair
of adult male champions. Their fresh young skill
in the game is more instructive to ordinary amateurs
than the finest play of the mere men champions.
But the chief attraction of the show is in its sex
rivalry and human interest. The women who went
to see Ruby and Walter play beautiful billiards at
Alcock’s Rooms (Melb.) the other week were as taken
by the personality of the performers as the men
were staggered by the precocity of little Walter’s
talent. The meagre boy made it a sufficiently good
race by conceding a start of 2000 in 7000 to the
buxom girl, who finished within two or three hun-
dred points of him. If they were touring in Eng-
land the managerial policy, of course, would be to
give Miss Roberts a rather longer start and spread
tales of how her young friend always gnashed his
teeth —in private—when he got beaten. In Australia
women are invited to come gratis to the Ruby-
Waiter matches. In the Cold Country, where 20
times as many women are familiar with the rudi-
ments of billiards, they would be expected to bring
the men along to buy seats for them. Moreover, an
enterprising manager would probably secure the par-
ticular patronage of the Pankhurst League, and
reserve a section of the seating accommodation for
suffragettes.
* * * *
The sport of road racing aboard cycles
had a little incident brought into it in Victoria the
other Saturday, when one Blake just managed to
beat a certain J. A. Cochrane at the finish of the
Northern Suburbs C.C. Bracelet. The discovery that
all was lost, and that the bangle could never be his,
so worked on Cochrane’s feelings that he stepped
up to the judge and passed him a couple of dennv-
heysers or woodeners. Another was presented to an
official who interposed ; and finally the defeated glad-
iator begged to be allowed to fight the entire com-
mittee. A section of the crowd of 1000 and odd
citizens who witnessed the affray reckoned it was
creditable, inasmuch as it proved, anyhow, that the
go was on the dead level. Not so the committee.
Having retired to the privacy of an armor-plated
boiler or something, they passed the warrior ouU for
two vears.
* * * *
“Weston the Walker,” famous as a pedes-
trian in the 70's of the last century, turns out to
be still alive. It was he who set the fashion for the
idiotic test of endurance known as “1000 miles in
1000 hours,” which meant doing on a track (some-
times even in a hall) a walk of as far from Sydney
to Adelaide in a succession of jerks lasting six
weeks. One mile had to be done in each and every
hour; and generally it was worked this way: A
mile from 1.45 to 2, another from 2 to 2.15, then
rest till 3.4 s—and so on. Weston turns up now with
a walk of 1400 miles, from New York to Minne-
apolis (U.S.A.), done in June and July. Its onlv
interest, supposing it was all genuine, lies in the fact
that Weston is now nearly 75. He says—or the
Yankee press says for him—that he promised at 50
to show himself “as fit as ever” a quarter of a centurv
later. Make it “as futile,” and The Bulletin will
come in with a burst of applause, and wave all its
bad debts round its head.
The “Sporting . Commission” of the
French Automobile Club is busy just now drafting
the. conditions for the next Grand Prix. The question
which obfuscates the Commission is whether it
shall or shall not include a tyre test. Some cars
devour tyres twice as fast as others, and the reason
why should be a thing worth knowing. There is
some reason for it, and a careful examination under
nroper test conditions would probably disclose what
it is, to the everlasting joy of the man who pays
for the machine’s footwear.
* * * *
Hockey, which has alwavs been a favorite
game in Maoriland, is evidently on a good footing, as
it is now talking of international matches. It is
proposed to invite an English team to leave the Cold
Country in April next and play 12 matches during
a six-week's’ tour of the Kiwi Islands.. N.S.W.
hockey is now sufficiently developed to consider the
question of playing Maoriland, and although the
Cornstalks would probably get beaten during the
first raid, the experience would be beneficial, as well
as interesting. Maoriland is a good place for a
holiday.
Rosehill (Sydney) race-meeting on Satur-
day was a preliminary canter for a host of prads
engaged in the big events of the coming Spring
Meeting at Randwick a fortnight hence. It was an
hilarious time for Maorilanders, as four of the six
events were won by gallant steeds from over-sea,
such as Soltano, which downed a well-bred field in
the Soring Stakes (w.f.a.), and Beau Soult, which
gathered the Rosehill Guineas from an army of
brethren in brutedom. Both these animals are con-
cerned in the A.J.C. Derby and other big deeds of
the season. And they seem worth watching.
There returned to his native-land lately,
after 12 years’ absence, mostly in the United States,
an Australian of some size. Rupert Jeffkins, to wit.
Jeff, was born in Maitland (N.S.W.), and took to
motor-racing early, having taken part in the Bou-
logne-sur-mer road-race of ’O4, when 20 miles an
hour was thought wonderful. Since then he has
put up temporary records on the Dayton, Indian-
opolis, San Jose and other tracks, and is one of the
only 18 drivers licensed by the United States Auto-
mobile Association to take part in motor-racing con-
tests. Jeffkins lately ran a car round the slightly-
banked cinder track on Richmond (Vic) racecourse
at a 70-mile gait, and threatens to hold a motor-
racing carnival there at Cup-time. There is sport
and money in motor-racing beyond doubt, but the
Richmond course is only a saucer. A proper sneed-
way is wanted, at least a mile to the lap, and it
would be necessary to go at least 15 miles out, say,
to Mentone racecourse or the country behind, tft get
it.
On Saturday last there was held around
London an Aerial “Derby,” for the Daily Mail
Cup. It was won by a foreigner named Hamel, on
a French monoplane, with Barnwell second, and
Hawker, the Australian who attempted to fly round
Britain, third. Sydney Pickles, the other Australian
airman, did not compete, it being understood that
he and Hawker are in the same stable. After the
Derby was over, however, Pickles gave a display,
and a lady aviator named Mrs. Stocks induced a
passenger to give her his seat. That passenger’s
luck was in, for, owing to the engine misfiring, the
machine dived, got out of hand and fell, so severely
injuring both Pickles and Mrs. Stocks that at time
of writing their lives are in serious jeopardy. This
holding of Aerial Derbies, Skybourne Cups and
Cloud Doncasters around the environs of a crowded
city is likely to lead to some excitement. It is all
right as long as the machines don’t run off the
course, but if they do and come down crash in a
busy street, it ought to make for some excitement.
Some time ago a Yankee millionairess was holding
festival in her conservatory when an aeroplane
crashed through the roof and scattered things. No-
body was killed, not even the aeronaut, who climbed
out of the wreckage and explained it was a good
job he hit the conservatory, as the framework of the
roof broke the force of the fall. He remarked, as
he left, that thev- could keep the ruins of the ’plane
as it was no further use to him, being in bits, and
he had also taken such a sudden dislike to flying
that had it been uninjured he never wanted to see
the durned thing again. Then he fled.
Sid Burns suffers from staggers, and takes
four helpings of count prior to succumbing to
Arthur Evernden at Sydney Stadium.
Summer baseball burst on Sydney with a
bang on Saturday, when, at the Sports Ground,
Petersham and Leichhardt put up a drawn game
with 12 runs each, before a surprising crowd of
paying public. The new game appears certain to
catch on. Still, trouble is ahead. There is friction
over the question of control between the Baseball
Association and the £5OOO Syndicate which is run-
ning'the summer branch. If the Syndicate doesn’t give
way there will be wholesale disqualification, fol-
lowed by a struggle which will practically kill both
summer and winter branches of the game for a
few years. Anyhow, the outlook for cricket is
considerably clouded for the moment.
* * * *
Victorian baseballers struck an awful
whirlwind in Adelaide on Saturday when the gentle
Groweaters pounded their guests by 23 to six in a
seven-innings game. The time of devastation was
the South Australian sixth innings, when the Vic-
torian pitchers were smitten for 15 runs, and Hope-
fell dead and Possibility gave up the ghost.
* * * *
Sydney Grammar School maintained its
monopoly of the Great Public Schools athletic pre-
miership last week by scooping up the honor for the
18th successive year. It’s a wonderful record.
* * * *
The Soccer struggle for the State Cham-
pionship of N.S.W. still drags on. On Saturday
Annandale and Sydney played off their drawn game ;
and a great game it was —hard, fast and scrupu-
lously clean. But it ended in nothing, so to speak,
as both sides scored three goals, and though extra
play was ordered, neither side managed to add to
the stature of its score. So they will meet again
next Saturday, amidst tremendous excitement. New-
town, which had already qualified for the final, re-
played its match with Granville, and by dint of
roughness, unfair play, and generally disreputable
tactics managed to bog out on top with three goals
to two.
Treasurer Green, of the N.S.W. Cricket
Association is quite a different type of chancellor to
his friend Cann, who looks after the State exchequer.
Green decided to knock out the grant to assist
country clubs during the coming season and justified
it this way: “We have just enough money to carry
through the season and finance the S’African tour
next year. If we have a good inter-State year it
will be all right and we may have a few pounds to
spare—but I don't think we can count on a tiptop
inter-State year.” So rigid economy is the order of
the day.
* * * *
N.S.W. bowlers came to a shocking end
at Brisbane last week when Queensland trampled
them underfoot by 113 points to 70. The second
Test went the same way, except that the scores were
only 91 and 88. The final was a hurricane effort
by both sides, and the Ma Staters pulled themselves
together for one supreme effort to make it safe to
return home. But Queensland’s response was just
as strenuous, and the result was a drawn game
with 94 points all. In the three matches Queensland
won with an aggregate of 298 to 252—the sort of
thing Ma is not accustomed to.
* * * *
It was also on Saturday that President
Gardner of the Newcastle Bowlers fell on Sydney
with eight drinks—or rather rinks. President
Spence opposed him with a similar force, so there
were 16 drinks in all. In spite of small-pox, vac-
cination and other things he managed to repel the
invasion by 187 points to 184.
There was considerable hoofball on the
Metropolitan Cricket Ground, Melbourne,- on Satur-
day, and very little anywhere else. From noon till
3 p.m. teams of sprightly nippers held the ground,
and then the representatives of St. Kilda and Fitz-
roy stepped smartly out, before the largest crowd
ever seen on the ground (54,747), and for the next
two hours afforded a really joyous spectacle. The
Maroons, with their extra weight, wanted to make
the game a series of close, congested rushes, but
the lighter Saints weren’t taking any. Their business
was to keep the play open, and they kept it so.
Their passing was superb, the forwards manipulating
the ball with wonderful precision and speed. At
the first change they had acquired four goals two
behinds to one goal two behinds. Then for a while
’Roy got its own way; its big followers charged
through crushes, striving to win by main force,
and during the quarter several men were temporarily
slain, and remained dead for a while pending re-
covery. At the interval, ’Roy had five goals six
behinds to St. lvilda’s five goals four behinds. The
’Roy men’s third quarter is notorious. It is then
they mostly put on a lead that is neve\' overtaken,
and they set about it at once, getting a pair of
behinds —but that was the end of it. The Saints had
strict orders to open the play at all risks, and
did so, so that at lemon-time they had added two
goals four behinds, giving them a two-goal lead. It
was up to then a beautiful but stubborn, hard-
fought game, and neither side could afford to make
a mistake. In the last term the Seasiders kept up
the same open, systematic play, and put on an addi-
tional three goals two behinds. The Maroons, how-
ever, . made a large mistake. They lost their heads
for a while, the big men rushing in with needless
violence, charging and slinging players who were
not in possession of the ball, while now and again
a clenched fist could be seen landing heavily. With
a strict umpire these capers only brought them dis-
aster and the hoots of the crowd, so that when the
bell rang, with Saints 10 goals 10 behinds to ’Roy’s
six goals nine behinds, and the stronger and fairer
side had won, most of the spectator departed well
satisfied. ’Roy has the right to a deciding game,
which will occur next Saturday; but unless the
Maroons change their method of play they have
little hope of winning, though a wet day will give
them an advantage. The “gate” was the biggest
on record—£2lo4 —but the League has a dim sus-
picion it ought to have been a few pounds more.
That body regularly issues some hundreds of compli-
mentary tickets —to club officials, etc. —and during
the week certain evil-disposed persons forged a num-
ber of shamefully accurate imitations of these, and
sold them about the city. The fraud was discov-
ered, but not before some had been used ; while it is
strongly suspected that the “gates” of the two pre-
vious Saturdays suffered largely from the same
unsuspected cause. And the impecunious League
has quite enough claimants on its “gates,” as
things are.
* * * *
Reginald Baker, commonly known as
“Snowy” of that ilk, is an ascetic. He has never
been heard to swear, and he never tasted champagne
till he came under the evil influence of the writer of
this paragraph. Then he not only tasted the cham-
pagne, but paid for it. But with all his aloofness
of appetite the physical condition in which some of
his boxers enter the ring has placed a heavy strain on
his tongue, and he has felt that only language could
express his feelings on the subject. So he has deter-
mined to supervise the training operations, and satisfy
himself that all bruisers are fit and properly well to
fight to a finish in a 20-round scuffle before he allows
them to enter the ring. He will pay unexpected
visits at all hours, and woe betide the bruiser who is
found playing fan-tan when he should be skipping or
knocking the corners of Sheol off his boxing partners.
The new order of things has already commenced, and
the first man who was visited happened,* for the good
of his soul, to be training—not drinking. About the
second, third and fourth man, and so on up to the
seventeenth man, there is no information to hand.
But the eighteenth man is solemnly warned that
Baker has an eye on him, and he had better
straighten up.
Arthur Evernden, the English welter-
weight who some time ago defeated the popular
Frank Picato, demonstrated at Sydney on Saturday
night that he is still a man with a punch. His
opponent was that Hebraic youth who fights under
the name of Sid Burns. What his real cognomen is,
writer knoweth not. It may be Moses Solomonson.
Properly trained, he is a fighter whose vicious box-
ing is in the first grade, who has a good command
over his feet and a better over his fists, and who is
able to hit harder than most. Armed with these
qualifications, Burns seemed booked for a long and
profitable stay in Australia. But on Saturday night
the glory passed away, and the £l2OO he had a
chance to win during the next few months is now
dangling before the long upper lip of Evernden.
Which may seem hard luck for Burns, but he cer-
tainly conduced to it by entering the ring against
so hard a fighter as Evernden when out of proper
condition. It seems that when they met in Eng-
land Burns out-boxed his rugged adversary, and
scored a decision on points. Perhaps that fact
caused him to hold Evernden too cheanly. The
long white road from Jerusalem to Jericho and
Sodom is strewn with the bones of men who held
the opponent -too cheaply. It is mighty bad policy
to neglect the training—men who can fight out of
condition, as Jeremiah Jerome did when he met
Bradley at a moment’s notice, are few, few indeed.
It must be admitted that at first Burns easily out-
boxed Evernden and scored whatever points were
going. Could he have kept going till the finish he
would probably have won on points ; but his lack
of fitness caused him to fall a victim to the ruthless
battering in the 10th round. He could not avoid
Evernden. That boring Gentile crowded right on to
him, butted through his guard, and smote with a
ton of smite. Evernden fought quite a different
battle from that he put up against the nlncky
Picato. He used an unpicturesque but effective
With his shoulders pushed forward and
his palms resting on his face on either side, his jaw
was completely covered and his bingey out of reach.
Swaying from side to side he would waddle round
after Burns, draw his lead, and then one fist or the
other would shoot out, and the whole of the weight
of the body would be hurled in after it, driving it
home. He didn’t hit —he lunged and put his weight
behind it, and when he made impact the effect was
terrific. Other times he would get in close and
uppercut with a vicious jerk. But, as he had to
swing the fist to do this Burns was able to see what
was coming and avoid it. It was not till the fifth,
when his condition began to fail, that Burns com-
menced to find trouble. He was smiling at the
attacks of Evernden when that doughty warrior
handed him a right which sent him down for seven
seconds and rattled him badly. Up again, he
showed much more caution, but was knocked down
again with a right hook just as the gong went.
Burns looked very groggy as he came out, and
Evernden stood in to finish him But Burns boxed
him off, and towards the end he hurled Evernden
backwards, followed him up and gave him one to go
on with as the bell clanged. The eighth found
Burns in trouble again, being down twice for eight.
But when he got up from the first knock-down he
all but outed Evernden with a right swing to the
side of the head. It was while following up that he
received the wallop on the jaw that sent him down
for the second time. In the ninth it was very
patent his strength was giving out. His seconds
vainlv bellowed to him to hang on. He continued
to mix it, but was shockingly slow in the breaks-
away. He was obviously done. He came out in the
10th to take the inevitable. It came quickly, and
he was down for nine seconds. Then he rose once
more, and staggered' into the fray, hoping against
hope. Another right sent him down again, and he
rolled on to bis back, his heels shot up in the air,
and the police interference and the towel ear™
simultaneously—so £l2OO vanished like a beautifVi
dream. It was nearly five minutes before Burn,
was able to leave the ring. AH for the want of,
little more training. d
As all interested parties know, Saturday
night will present what is confidently J
pected to be about the most stubborn fight ever seen
in the Sydney Stadium; and one of the most im
portant—a fight which will be followed with interest
all over the Anglo-Stoush world. Moran and Wells
meet. As a record crowd is expected, special
arrangements have been made to cope with the rush
The doors will be open at 6.30 p.m., and over 100
ushers will be on duty to handle the people. As
the real battle does not start till 8.30, the patrons
will be entertained with a preliminary bout of 15
two-minute rounds between Bob King and Hector
Melville —both good fighters who have been sparrin°-
with Moran and Mehegan respectively. The rounds
have been shortened to enable them to make the
pace fast. As for the big scrap itself, both men are
absolutely confident. Moran is, like Wells, just
about the perfect build for a boxer. He is a bit
more rugged than Wells but not quite so robustious,
and will scale very little over 9st., while Wells will
be close up to lOst. Both men have trained very
hard indeed, and there will be no lack of condition.
Wells announces that he will fight a totally different
battle from that he put up against Mehegan—and it
is to be devoutly hoped he will, for that was not an
attractive display. He concludes his remarks with
a promise to knock Moran out. Moran doesn’t care
a hang what Wells’s weight may be, neither does
he mind a rap what sort of scrap Wells fights—it’s
all one to him. He carries the punch, he believes,
and if the punch is there and can be delivered, what
does it matter what attitude the receiver is in when
he gets it ?
e* * * *
It seems that in addition to an injured
nose Pat Bradley sustained a dislocation of one of his
thumbs the night he met the whirling Prophet
Jeremiah, and although the nose has healed, the
thumb, at time of writing, makes serious prepara-
tion for his postponed fight with Smith quite im-
possible. Later on it is understood that Bradley
will be put up against Evernden —and won’t that be
a dream! Jerome’s broken hand has put him out
of the hunt for some considerable time, but he will
be matched with Bradley again after the Basher
has met Smith and Evernden. The return scrap
between Wells and Mehegan will rage in Melbourne
oi Cup eve. In fact, Cup week in Melbourne is going
to be also Stoush week, with three championship
fights: Mehegan-Wells, Evernden-Summers, and Bill
Lang with the winner of the Doran-Bell contest.
Incidentally, writer saw Bell at his training-camp last
week, and is firmly convinced that it is only lack of
moral courage that prevents him being among the
world’s boss heavyweights. He is unusually skilful,
and a mighty hitter before the gods; but in the (
ring, somehow, he seems to straggle about the back- *
bone.


YOUR HEALTH is
What You Make It
If you neglect Exercise you neglect your
health. Because, without Exercise, your
blood circulation becomes feeble, its quality
impoverished, its nourishing qualities ban-
ished.
Walking is a fine exercise, but few can
find time for a daily five-mile jaunt. But
everyone can spare fifteen minutes a day.
Devote that time to my judicious HEALTH
EXERCISES, and you’ll be delighted with
the results.
_ Health Exercises apply scientific prin-
ciples to ensure a vigorous blood circulation,
a thorough exercising of the vital organs, and
complete relaxation. Their benefits are
quickly apparent, because they go right to
the spot.
Here is good evidence :
“Since undertaking your Course, I feel twice
the man, and I have developed wonderfully. I
have never been more pleased with anything I
have done than since I went in for your Course
of Physical Culture, and I can honestly recommend
your course to anyone seeking better health.
“E.H.W., Northampton, W.A.”
That will give you an idea how you can benefit
oJS*- ‘~ojrz£?£‘jz2r t *z± scm
book'et, which also *ive. f»ll information ol m, method,, co.t, ol tuition!"to. lindij JSTttaS
penny stamps for postage. ' ienu ulree
REG. E. (“Snowy”) BARER,
238 Belmont Buildings,
CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
“Nothing Better in
Virginia Cigarettes”
than
AUTUMN
GOLD
This is the opinion of
every smoker who has
tried these high-grade
cigarettes.
They are manufactured
from the very finest of
specially selected Vir-
ginia leaves, by W. D.
& H. O. Wills, of Bristol,
England, and are packed
i n hermetically-sealed,
vacuum tins, in 50’s,
which keep them in per-
fect condition.
Plain or 22-carat Gold-
tipped, 4/- per tin of 50,
or 75/- per 1000.
Postage extra : 100, 6d.;
inter-State, Bd.
Write for a copy of my
Catalog, “A Book of Good
Smokes.”
Actual Size.
A. M. SOLOMON,
CIGAR EXPERT,
173 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
AGENTS WANTED EVERYWHERE
to sell on commission the famous
“SMITH” PLOUGHS
APPLY PROMPTLY TO
CLARENCE H. SMITH LIMITED,
ARDROSSAN, SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
for wounds, cuts and sores
Just wash the part clean, rub in a little
WILKINSON’S
eclectric OINTMENT
and you’ll have the skin healed and healthy
quicker than with any other ointment on earth,
r.veryone says so who has used it. Write for a
n now. 1/6, posted 1/9.
J. WILKINSON, Chemist,
_ Wickham Street. Valley, Brisbane,
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
in use since 1506.
CURBS
Austrian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
e ur chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S- GREEN. 210, Lambeth Koad, London, Eng.
THE Australian
HAND. The Ni
Magazine—THE DONE
itional Monthly. Price, 6d.
BEST RESULTS
4SSURED ON
SHELL'
M: -V
BENZINE.
The British imperial Oil Co. Ltd.
Freedom, Ease § Comfort
The
WELMAR
Shirt
Pat. 1274
24/5/’ll.
Stocked by
Leading
Mercers and
Outfitters.
Manufactured by
Welch, Margetson 8 Co.
Pty. Ltd.
-
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses ? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE 10 WEAR, but ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
seud you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AI»I CUBHION APPLIANCE
Never mind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is. in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad_is ma4e of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE. COMFORT, .nd SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men. women & children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
34.9 Colline-st., Melbourne, Vic.
P-V.GES FOR EVERY WOMAN is a fea-
tare of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
L. & F. CO., LIMITED.
I
Secure Highest Market Rates
for all consignments of Wool,
Wheat, Hides, Skins and Tallow
entrusted to them and render
returns promptly.
BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
The Rigney Shoe Parlors
offer you the best, highest-grade, and most-
exclusive footwear obtainable.
The illustration shows a very Choice Vici
Kid Bal., with Patent Cap, Close Welt,
Light Sole, Guaranteed Hand Sewn A
Shoe for those gentlemen who look for char-
acter and exclusiveness in their footwear.
It is an English-made Shoe, one of “Bos-
tock’s.”
Post ago 9d. extra.
Write for a Copy of my Catalog.
THE RIGNEY .SHOE CO.,
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
“Jean Sibi,” from the Federal press gal-
lery :
As an admirer of oratory, plain or colored, I
beg to draw attention to the lack of effective speakers
in the House of Reps. I doubt if there are more
than three or four' rnefi on either side who have the
real gift of speech concealed about them. Hughes
is usually fine and trenchant,, but s be needs to be
roused from the comfortable serenity that, is grow-
ing upon him. Glynn has a Hibernian fluency that
is pleasant in moderation, and Bruce Smith has a
measured delivery, to which he is the most atten-
tive listener. To my mind, the trouble with Bruce
is not the method but the matter of his orations.
In a manner of speaking, he gives you the bones
without the bovril. Roberts, I think, is the most
forceful in the House —an incisive talker who argues
with an impression of profound suffering. Kelly is
a distant echo of Oxford, with insufficient urbanity
to make his mistakes charming. Iceberg Irvine is
good, and is occasionally guilty of a faint note of
passion which his countenance declines to corroborate.
Anstey is the most unusual. He begins like an
actor and ends like a demagogue, and embellishes
his speeches with fantasies of cynicism, awful nasal
infections, and most disrespectful humor. Bar
O Malley, who buries hoary platitudes in gorgeous
vocabulary, none of the others are sufficiently odd
and surprising to call for mention. The remarks
of persons like Cook and Webster are usually de-
scribed as “Interruption,” and there is a horde of
others, like West, Bennett, Fenton and McWilliams
who are merely victims of the indeterminate sen-
tence. Of course, I except old Jim Page’, who is
really in a large class by himself When Jim talks
he recalls a rogue elephant in a field of .daffodils,
and a bon mot from him resembles a crash of dyna-
mite or a falling building.
The Hastings and Macleay electorate has
supplied three Speakers to the N. S. Wales
Assembly—Edmund Barton. J. H. Young
and H. D. Morton.
• •
V
%•
HC
“DuNLOPsVor Speed a Reliability
OLYMPIC ROAD TEST.
COULBURNto SYDNEY ROAD RACE
As Usual.. M .
DUNLOPTYRES
proved their superiority in Speed and
Reliability, for the FIRST lO
RIDERS TO FINISH in this,
the greatest Amateur Road Race yet
held in Australia, rode “DUNLOPS.”
You must ride the Best to have a chance of
Success on Track or Road, therefore select
“DUNLOPS ” ALL CYCLE AGENTS.
THE DUNLOP RUBBER CO., All State, and N.Z.


TRADEMARKS
B.S.A.
Is your Bicycle built of
GENUINE
A
FITTINGS?
TRADEMARKS
B.S.A.
The public recognition of the high standard of
quality embodied in B.S.A. manufactures has
tempted unscrupulous persons to offer worthless
imitations as genuine B.S.A. Fittings.
It is therefore necessary to caution intending
purchasers of B.S.A. Fittings that none are
genuine unless they bear the Trade Marks—the
three piled rifles or letters B.S.A. as illustrated,
stamped on each part.
B.S.A.
Remember it is not sufficient to find this mark on one, two,
or more parts. It must appear on EVERY PART specified
Steering Head, Crank Bracket, Seat Pillar Lug,
Back Fork Ends, Back Fork Bridge, Back Stay
Bridge, Hubs, Cranks and Pedals.
trademarks
Catalogue* and Full Particul ir* of all B.S.A Good* can be
obtained from
D. Y. RENNIE, representing
The Birmingham Small Arms Co. Ltd.
4, Australian Buildings, Elizabeth St., MELBOURNE.
B.S.A.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub. Free Wheel
on both gears, Back-pedalling and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop Tyres. As
ridden by FRANCIS IJIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
ANTHONY HORPCRN <& SONS LTD.,
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
m
•wjvw'k*
ssiw. ?£*
'
lilliiF
m
m
m&ggmi
M^mm
>5>J
gfeSlft
■r' ?^-v.IT
■• ■ “V :•'
»U 3&
! ; i&
:#:
• .• ■’•
K#
;*y. •
M
w*
StAiff.
TTiTwE
m
mm
m
*y
i®
$5
K
j i?kl
SO
L.#r£
M
Si
A.--vi
■*"'’ V
/**
<1
Xy
m
Enforced Records inc ease Profits
■\I7HTSN a printed receipt issued by a
VV Motional Cash Register is furnished
your customers on each transaction, you
know positively that your money is pro-
perly safeguarded.
The printed receipt going to the customer
leaves a duplicate record in your cash reg-
ister, and enables you to trace the transac-
tion,'know who handled it, how much it
was,' and whether cash, charge, received on
account, or paid out.
There is a §tyle and size of National
adapted to the needs of your store.
Write for information
The National Cash Register Co.
of Australasia Ltd.,
335 Pitt St., Sydney 50 Bourke St,, Mslbourne
343 Queen St., Brisbane 117 a Rundle St., Adelaide
281 Murray St., Perth 60 Collins St., Piobart
Clearing
Made
Easy.
Give up clearing
with the axe, dyna-
mite, etc. Use
the “BUNYIP”
FOREST DEVIL.
No hard work. It
Wa
Y?
•/'
sit*
BUNYIP
FORE
uproots trees, stumps, shifts giant boulders, etc. Your boy can work it.
Easy to shift about. Shows quick results. Pays for itself after tew
acres have been cleared. Have full details. Catalogue on request.
Investigate also ANVIL BRAND PLOUGH SHARES & SPEEDIE’S
AUTOMATIC RABBIT TRAP. Send to-day.
John Cooper Sons,
‘FOR ALL FARMING
IRONMONGERY,”
287-89 Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
OCKfcPIER 1
5
s.
SF 53
OWING to delay on the part of the Printer we have been obliged to disappoint nl ® , g
applicants for a copy of the new edition of this list. We have now many tho m
for distribution, and will send you a copy, post free, if you will drop us a
mentioning this paper. Our other lists are at your service, too ; they, cover the wnoie
of SP theVeW A.P. lUFLE LIST is easily the Biggest, Best and Most Informative
tion of the kind yet issued in Australia. It fully illustrates and describes 132 . dl “ e \
of every kind and calibre, from the tiny .22 to the powerful .401 Automatic, priced Irom J.US.
to £l6, together with Ammunition, Parts, Sights, Accessories, etc, etc.
ASK FOR IT TO-DAY—NOW!
ALCOCH &. PIERCE, 318 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
ARE YOU FAIR TO YOURSELF P
■yOU begin to
* look old, with
those grey and
fade'd hairs,
always so con-
spicuous, A
bottle of the
world-famed
Lockyer’s
Hair Restorer, 1/6
gives health to the Hair and restores the
natural colour. It cleanses the scalp; is
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
DON’T LOOK OLD.
&
m
4m
LETTERS COPIED
WHILE WRITINC
(IN INK)
by using your own..mfthis
Paper, Invoices, etc., with .
Copying book. You '
sert your better mj an d
illustrated - ) then wr‘e.
the act of writing P* 0
perfect letter and having
copy in the book. There is no sign }
taken a copy; no perforated-edge. gize 10
Hook N.S.C./200 copies either 200 len jjook
, ■ o Ann ol,„ « hv fi. nfice 3/■> >
Hook N.S.C./200 copies either w . or jj o ok
bv 8 in., or 400 si?e 8 bv 5, price 5/'
N.S.C./400 conies 400 or 800 respective! , P octavo
post free, cash with order. Specia 1 q| , double
l.;*,/* onn nnm'Dc for .-5/- 1
r - n witn uiuc. po ,
Hook, making 200 copies, for 31- \' nder ful Zan-
capacitv for 4/3. Sample of the /ree, if
etic Ink Paper, which makes the V
stamped, addressed envelope sen ENGLAND.
S B. ZANETIC, Welford Rd„ LEICESTER, ENCLA_
‘Linseed Compound,” Trad ®“ghs and Colds.
Compound Essence of Linseed fo
•‘A Message from Mars” has been most successfully
filmed for picture-play purposes. The coming and
going of the brown man with the gospel of other-
dom’’ are highly supernatural effects on the screen,
and the picture supplies details which are missing
from the stage performance. lor instance, when the
firebell rings in the second act a fire engine dashes
out of the station and tears along to Horace's domi-
cile.
The Williamson Limited combine opens the
S’African branch of its business next New Years
Day. On January 1 it takes possession of Her
Majesty’s, Johannesburg, and the other Wheeler
theatres thereabouts, and thenceforth every show ex-
ported to Australia by the combine will come via the
Cape. Meynell, now in England, is to fix up matters
in S’Afriea before he returns to Melbourne.
From London: They have odd ideas here about the
impossibility of acting American plays as written.
No less a person than Stephen Phillips was engaged
to Anglicise “Everywoman,” and “Within the Law
has been the victim of a foolish attempt at adapta-
tion —foolish because the whole atmosphere is Ameri-
can, and the policemen become caricatures when they
are stated to come from Scotland Yard. Also, Aggie
loses much of her joyousness when her U.S.A. slang
is amputated. The final act is not in the police sta-
tion, but in Mary’s flat. Joe confesses to the murder
from sentimental motives, and not under Third Degree
pressure, and, altogether, the thing is a muddle
which betrays its repudiated parentage at every turn.
“Ike Pagliacci”: Mention Italy to an Australian,
and he thinks (1) of steak and oysters, (2) of organs
and monkeys. The sentimental miss with a know-
ledge of Marion Crawford may get visions of guitars.
As a matter of fact, Italy knows as little of steak-
and-de-oyt;’ as Australia knows of the delights of
macaroni done up Dago fashion. In a recent month
spent among my brother Dagoes, I didn’t see a
single organman. Later I discovered him in great
numbers in Germany, although the monkey was miss-
ing in nine cases out of 10. The musicians are par-
ticularly thick in Bremen. As regards the guitar in
the land of my relations, I fear it has been replaced
for serenading purposes by the gramophone, the
local lover having less faith in his own top note
than in Caruso’s.
“Melb”: Although the Williamson theatre will
start building shortly, there is talk of yet another.
Tallis, Meynell and Ward have a difficulty in placing
their shows here. Allen Doone says he would have
acted much more in Melbourne if he had been able
to get a house. Buckler and Miss Paget, like all
others, object to the Bijou, being entirely upstairs.
Surely the gallery steps at this “shop” are a record.
On the top landing fat women are dismayed by a
wag having written “Half-way Up.” Corson Clarke
and his company are driven to the Majestic picture
place.
Oscar Hammerstein, undeterred by the dropping of
a quarter of a million in giving London a gorgeous
opera house which it didn’t want, is now busy put-
ting up another in New York. He (or his press
agent) says he has discovered a second Caruso
among the workmen on the job. He (or his sti-
pendiary public leg-puller aforesaid) was watching
the plasterers, when one of them started singing a
selection from “II Trovatore.” Plasteruso was
promptly taken from the mortar and Pent to
musical academy. Meanwhile the London (w P a
House that wasn’t wanted is doing pretty well ■ •
variety theatre. There is apparently no end *i. a
variety theatres that London wants.
“Harrison O.”: Barrie’s baronetcy has evidentlv
brought him no luck, since the curtain had to 1
rung down on the first-night performance of his new
play, “Adored One.” This sudden slump is mor
astonishing in view of the fact that a few montl'
ago, when three one-act plays by Shaw, Pinero and
Barrie were put on at the Duke of York's Theatre
Barrie’s “Rosalind” was the only one to plea-
cither critics or public. The most likely
tions of the failure are that the dramatist attempted
to carry his love for quaintness too far, or allowed
his pawky Scawtch humor to become plain fudge
A little of each has happened before; more of both
would quite likely prove fatal. Anyway, though
London audience is prepared to stand "a lot from
the creator of “Peter Pan,” its patience gave out
half-way through “Adored One.” And it shroke at
the gifted author with the shriek of mockery.
“Lancet”: For the London Medical Congress this
year 80 American doctors came by the Bremen from
New York. On the third night of the voyage a
grand masquerade ball was interrupted by Dr
lvovacs, of Brooklyn, announcing that one of his
professional brethren had developed acute appendi-
citis. As an immediate operation was necessary, the
Pall must be stopped, perfect quiet being essential
Great excitement. The patient was carried into the
dining-saloon for the operation, and hundreds of
passengers assembled as closely as they were allowed
Many distinguished medical men stood around. Tin-
operation was performed by Dr. Seaman, of Phila
delphia, and Dr. Albee, of Vermont. They were
dressed in the usual long white gowns and india-
rubber gloves. Instruments were arranged and dipped
in antiseptic solution. Chloroform was apparent.lv
administered. Dr. Seaman quickly made the inci-
sion. Out came a large bunch of grapes. Next, a
pineapple. The patient then sat up, and called for
a glass of beer.
Circus panics, proceeding from the misconduct of
caged animals, are more wildly unreasonable than
the theatre panics due to somebody’s cry of “Fire!'’
At Ghent, last week, a party of performing bears
started to maul their “tamer ” and a young woman
who had entered the cage with him. Whereupon
the audience rushed for the exits, as though the
bears were looking for meat outside the cage. Their
quarrel was with the tamer and the woman who had
ventured into their family circle. It was a purely
domestic outbreak.
The varied life-story of the Little King William-
street house known till now as Adelaide Tivoli: Built
as White’s Rooms —-White was a tailor with a musical
son—-nearly 60 years ago, it was the city’s chief
ball-room, concert-hall and banqueting-room. Ex-
plorer McDouall Stuart, among others, was “break-
fasted” there, after the custom of those days. It
then became Garner’s Rooms, under Arthur Garner,
at one time of the Williamson and Musgrove firm,
and, being a solidly-built place, it stood even his
weight. Then it was the Bijou, under Tommy Hud-
son. All this century it has been the Tivoli —with
a dress-circle, etc. —under Rickards. Now that
Mclntosh has taken that name to a far bigger
house, it becomes the Star, with a continuous-picture
show. Naturallv the old proprietary did not care
to have a variety show running in the old house.
but it is understood that, when the present lease
runs out, two years from now, the Brennan-Fuller
circuit has the right to take it.


The Points of Merit
of EDISON Lamps
pDISON LAMPS are the
most extensively used
lamps in the world, exceeding
by millions the sale of any
other make of lamp. Write
for Price List and Catalogue
No. 333.
i Accurately sized, machine made
“stem” or “mount" for fila-
ment. Insures accurate center-
ing of filament in bulb and pro-
vides a strong support.
Filament “clamps” or joints of
specially prepared carbon
cement. Hold filament ends se-
curely and avoid ” h,ot clamps ”
and broken connections.
Strong, uniform high grade fila-
ment free from spots or disco-
lorations. Note the oval form of
filament a symmetrical shape,
which conforms to the lines of
the bulb.
Vitrite glass button forming
moisture proof cap.
First class vacuum uniformly-
effected by the chemicalmethod
of exhaust. Reduces blacken-
ing—maintains candle power —
ensures reliability.
r
It
161
.
•Sf-
Uniform and strong cap —sym-
metrically centred and firmly
fitted on bulb. Secured with
special waterproofcement,which
prevents loose caps.
Small, strong, securely made
tip—reduces tip breakage which
destroys many lamps.
Platinum wiressecurely welded
to ‘'leading-in ” wires with weld
knot clamped into the glass, re-
lieving the platinum from any
strain.
Nickelled iron anchors support-
ing filament, preventing droop-
ingandcheckingvibration. Note,
anchors are in an unobtrusive
position where they do not cast
shadows.
Uniform bulb blown in moulds
and gauged to exact and uniform
size, carefully selected free from
flaws and blemishes.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC
217 Clarence Street, Sydney. Corner Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne.
AGENTS
f ADELAlDE.—Unbehaun & Johnstone. Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
I BRlSBANE.—Engineering Supply Co. of Aust., Ltd., George Street,
j PERTH, W.A.—Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., 20 Queen Street.
NEW ZEALAND.—National Electrical & Engineering Co., Ltd., Auckland, Dunedin & Wellington.
*'Ringing for More! i
ll±±Jl,
Bird’s
Custard
stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess.
Has stood the test of time
L Over 70 years’ success. A
PILE PILLS.
PERMANENT CURE.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS.
Non-aperient. A sure and speedy cure for all cases
of Internal and External Piles.
Have Cured Thousands of Cases, some after suffering
over 40 years.
Made and sold by ANDREW MURPHY, WOY
Wf)Y (N.S.W.), Sole Proprietor.
PRICE 3/- PER BOX, or 8 BOXES £l,
Post Free.
On Sale at All Druggists and Chemists throughout
the States.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austra-
lasian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the offices, 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers.- meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
THE Australian Magazine—THE TONE
HAND. The National Monthly. Price. 6d
VOLT
We Do Not Build
Switchboards by the Mile.
A. E. G.
SWITCHBOARDS
are the finished product of high
perfection in specialisation,
embodying skilled technique and the
individualised study of each particular
problem. Leaflet “SA2IB” free.
Australian Metal Company Limited
SYDNEY
40-2 Clarence Street.
MELBOURNE
172-6 William Street
ADELAIDE
129 Currie Street.
SSI
\
■ S--
'PM
- • . ■-Xv : l?
i
111
111
s
TESTS ON ABOVE ENGINES.
1. Guaranteed Consumptions • • • : n 'J
2. Consumptions attained on official test by Go
ernment Testing Bureau • • • • '
3. Consumptions given by the Station officials afte
running 6 months on load . . • •
B.H.P.
407.9
408
Watcrfecd to boiler,
per B.H.P. Hour.
9.71 b.
9.11 b.
9.01 b.
Coal per
B.H.P. Hour.
1.231 b.
I.llb.
1.0951 b.
w
Patent
Steam
O L
Superheated
Locomobiles
We are installing, amongst others, three of these
engines for the SYDNEY WATER SUPPLY, and
two for the BROKEN HILL WATER SUPPLY;
we also have a great many already in successful
use throughout Australia.
The illustration shows
The Fulda Electric Power Station,
consisting of—
-2 Units, type V.K., 480 B.H.P. each, with
direct coupled dynamos.
Repeat 1 Unit, type V.K., 680 B.H.P. each, with
direct coupled dynamos.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES:
Haes 8 Eggers Ltd.
163 Clarence Street, Sydney


p
ABBEY
SHOES
This is a day of specialisation.
The Abbey Shoe is a specialised
production. It represents the
highest ideal in gent.’s foot-
wear.
The illustration shows the
highest-grade Tan Willow Calf
Bal., 27/0 and 30/- Also in
Glac<§ Kid, 25/-, 27/6, 30/-
In highest-grade Box Calf, 30/-
Postage extra.
In half sizes and quarter fit-
tings.
Send for a Catalog.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
m
m
*
Be Ever Youthful
The greatest
enemy to a
youthful
appearance
is
Grey Hair.
This can be
overcome by
using
MARIE Permanent
HAIR STAIN
(Registered)-
The latest and best scientific discovery for
restoring grey or faded hair to its natural
color. Guaranteed not to washj wear or
rub off". Is not affected by sea air or surf-
ing ; proof against humid or damp atmos-
pheres. Is not greasy; never varies in
shade or goes patchy ;is non-injurious; leaves hair soft,
silky and brilliant; aids growth, and is permanent.
PRICE 10/6; Postage 6d. extra. Sold in four shades:
Light Brown, Medium Brown, Dark Brown and Black.
Free Test given to all who call at my Salon. Money
returned if hair not permanently stained.
Prepared and Sold only by
MARIE VAN BRAKKEL, Ladies’ Hair Special!*!
Only Address: 46 CASTLEREACH STREET, SYDNEY
Register all Letters. (Opposite Hotel Australia).
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE.
ic*
Made in England. Perfectly
harmless, indetectable,
and guaranteed free
from Nitrate of
Silver and Lead
Salts.
IN VARIOUS
SHADES Raven
Black, Black,
Brown, Light or
Golden Brown,
Blonde, Chestnut
and Auburn
Price 3/6, posted 3/11.
Directions with every
bottle.
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 The Block Arcade, Collins St., Melbourne
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wf, Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant-
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68j PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
STEWART DAWSON’S
You are strongly recommended to inspect the
display of Field, Marine and Opera Glasses in
our Strand Window. We have been appointed
SOLE AGENTS TN AUSTRALIA FOR
DOLLOND’S —THE WORLD-FAMED LON-
DON FIRM. To make room for large ship-
ments of Dollond Binoculars, we are offering
leading makes of
FIELD GLASSES
For the Spring Racing Carnival
Actually Below Cost
Note the prices in our windows. You will
find Prismatic Binoculars there at startling
reductions. This is an unparalleled chance to
provide yourself with fine glasses at prices that
are unlikely to be offered again.
A WIDE VARIETY OF OPERA GLASSES
by the best makers for the coming Opera Seaton.
We pay the postage on all goods. Write for
Illustrated Catalogue.
Strand Corner, 412 George St., Sydney.
AUSTRALIA: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth. '
NEW ZEALAND: Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin.
LONDON: 73 to 81 Regent Street, W.; and 19 to 21 Hatton Garden, E.C.
.7 3/G
■»
V 1 V'
viv
f}///?////v///vm
S 185&
r*
r»*
“ Safety ” Type — No matter how
carried IT WILL NOT LEAK.
Upside down in pocket or bag—doesn’t matter
a bit. Ihe Pen can’t leak—it’s sealed when
open and sealed when closed As a pen
absolutely efficient. Writes smoothly, with-
out spurting or faltering ; lasts a lifetime.
Nibs to suit every hand.
15/- and upwards.
Of Stationers and
Jewellers everywhere.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, Ltd.,
Koh-i-noor House, London, England.
AUSTRALIA—3SO, George St.,
Sydney.
mm
111
m
i
lIP
. 'ii. iiiK^
l. , 'lii' >
■v„,^
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dog's Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
Restore the voice with
ANTISEPTIC
FORMULA OF THE LIVERPOOL THROAT HQSFITAI
These wonderfully efficacious Throat Pastilles act like a charm 1
keeping the voice and throat in perfect condition.
Used by Leading Singers throughout the world. ...
The celebrated Madam Tetrazzini writes:—“I thank you for tn
boxes of Evans’ Pastilles sent me, which I find excellent ana
efficacious.”
Ask for Evans’ Pastilles and see you get them.
Business, Bobbery, etc.
Kaylee : Commend me to a Rockhampton (Q.)
carnival crowd for meanness. Jefferson Tait, with
a travelling melodrama show, opened recently on a
threatening night, and, in terror that the tent would
blow down and smother the hero and heroine, choke
the villain and asphyxiate the cheeild, to say no-
thing of blotting out the audience, he paid back the
money. But much audience climbed from the bob seats
into the two bobs, and from the good seats into
the very best seats, and collected dividends at the
door so unblushingly that, when Tait had paid out
all the cash he had taken, there was still £7 worth
of people clamoring inside. So he paid out the
from past profits—after which the weather
naturally change ( d for the better, and the only cloud
in sight was the one on Jefferson Tait’s brow.
* * * *
“C.E.”: The Melbourne Electric Supply Co. deals
with the suburbs, the Corporation Supply with the
city. The co. has lately ordered, from the Allge-
meine Elektricitats, of Berlin, two additional sets
of machinery, each of 5000 kilowatts capacity. The
present machines can supply 9000 kilowatts. Thus
the output can be doubled. The new machines will
be the largest at present in Australia, except those in
Sydney; but the electrification of Melbourne railways
will demand larger than any. The M.E.S. Co.’s new
machines will run into £30,000. Lane, the secre-
tary, first tried to get the job done by English
makers, but found that, under the soporific influence
of Freetrade, they couldn’t do it in the time fixed.
So he went to up-to-date, Protectionist Germany,
consulted the two great rivals, Siemens and the
Elektricitats, and placed an order at a Drice so much
lower that the difference will more than compensate
for the extra duty to be paid. The contract time is
seven months.
“Kidman’s Man’: San Francisco advices show
maintained interest in Australian meat. The largest
importer, Booth, of Monterey, declares that, as soon
as the duty of cents the lb. is removed, he will
swamp the U.S. with flesh from Sydney. It was
confidently expected that the duty would be off in
September, and that large markets would then imme-
diately open even in Chicago and New York.
Booth’s manager, Marshall, says on organisation is
perfected, with a chain of distributive centres, from
Pacific to Atlantic. Already he imports five times
as much as all other concerns combined. The San
Francisco community was clamorous for the meat, but
the importer had run against the jobbers. This led
Booth to strike out independently through the Retail
Butchers’ Associations; one of which has about 400
members in San Francisco, while another, with head-
headquarters at Oakland, has 225. Thus early he
has wrought up from a small sample shipment to
steady and continuous consignments of 200 tons per
steamer, and the next one was taking 300 tons. The
fight has been hard, with the opposition trying to
foist off as Australian the carcases of old cows
stags and “dogs,” as the old, used-up cattle are
termed. The Panama Canal will, however, be rather
unfavorable, since it will open up handier communi-
cation between Argentina and San Francisco. As
yet this competition does not trouble us, as it does
not pay to send meat over the Andes from Buenos
Ayres to Chili, for shipment to San Francisco, while
the voyage round the Horn is out of the question.
Nevertheless, the Australian meat future is boundless >
Apart from America, there is the incalculable outlook
m China, Japan, Java and the Archipelago, Malaya
and even India. All those millions will go on meat-
eating more and more. They always do. Meat,
however unhealthy, is in tropical regions a standard
of Respectability. So is wheat as against rice Our
vast Northern Territory—what millions isn’t it going
to be worth before many years are gone, if we don’t
lose it by stagnation and State Frights'
* * * *
“F.H.R.”: Under present conditions in N S
Wales a person can purchase a heap of tailings on
any old goldfield, subject it to cyanide treatment,
and waltz away with the proceeds, leaving behind
him as deadly a poison as can be found in any dis-
pensary. To children, who are naturally fond of
romping in the sands, the dust is, to put it mildly
dangerous; and to the roving cow and her brother
the salts that arise in the form of a white coating
are fatal if licked after rain. The least the Mines
Department should do is to insist on a fly-proof fence
around every such abomination.
* * * *
“Bloore”: By the beard of Admiral Patey, I am
gneviously stricken! I was looking for something
to amuse “Bloore,” junior, the other day, and spotted
the Australian fleet, neatly made up in a box, all
for 15 pence. Before spending my tobacco" monev,
however, I had a look at the cover of the box, arid
hang me if it didn’t bear this inscription— “ Made
in Japan” !
* * * *
“Feng-Shui” (from a big Chinese city): The
convenience of cheap coolie labor is the most expen-
sive inconvenience in the world. My coolies have
been digging a trench. One down below slowly and
painfully thrusts a sort of hoe into the soil, and
withdraws it. A friend carefully and slowly scrapes
off the small pieces of clay. He passes it to a
companion standing by, who, with the deliberation
of a sculptor, moulds it into a ball. This third
man, with anguished effort, delivers it into the
custody of a colleague standing above, who in time
transfers it to a fifth. This last, as if it were
precious porcelain, lays it reverently on the ground
The five require a kangani to watch over them or
they will not work at all. Every now and then’the
chain is broken by No. 2, who goes off for a chew
of betelnut, or by No. 4, who is merely bored, and
the entire process stops. Six able-bodied Asiatics =.*
a very sick or a (worst adjective you know) lazy
Australian with a trowel. And wandering around is
a mad Australian who has flogged himself to try to
get the “cheap” laborers to change their ways and
can t manage it. I’m the mad Australian. If I met
one of those people who want to “develop” our
North with this kind of loafer, I think I should kill
him.
JANE, AS A BUSINESS PROPOSITION.
[For The Bulletin.]
A pleasant girl is nature’s choicest rose,
All poets dwell upon this modest fact;
The tender petals ’neath the damsel’s nose
Bloom in a manner which, to be exact,
Though often nutty, fragrant, red or fruity,
Require new terms to classify their beauty.
I cannot see why language old and trite
Should be employed when cataloguing Jane;
Her lips are red, her hair is black as night,
But such description fills my soul with pain.
Roses and night and stars I here abolish —
Her lips are radishes, her hair’s stove polish.
Her eyes are like two spots of round, kind ink
Dropt on white china, and all fringed about
With down of young black Orpingtons that blink
Against the incubator lamp and doubt
Its mother brightness. Her white forehead arching
Is like a broad, white collar curved with starching.
Her ankles twinkle when she moves around
Like necks of pleasant bottles upside down,
Her waist, with webs of silk or satin bound,
Curves like the tramway in some street in town,
Where, two main arteries of traffic merging,
The cars are towards the city’s heart converging.
Her smile is something very sweet and fine,
Like some clear lamp just lighted in the night
When that the happy hour has come to dine,
And all the table cutlery is bright;
Her heart, when sentiments of joy dilate her,
Glows like a warm electric radiator.
Such is the simple catalogue of Jane,
In business terms that folk may understand;
No waste of verbiage here, but crisp and plain
The language love has ready at command.
Could roses, stars or moons make it completer
To help you recognise her when you meet her?
N - s - w -
CURSE O’ MOSES.


%'w
. -r
£6
10s.
for
Uhl’s
Anglo-Australian.
The Saddle that will give yon many years of
comfortable riding and excellent service.
Made on Special Tree, Hogskin Seat and Pads,
Skirt all round, extra long Flaps, solid leather
Panel, short folded leather girth (short or
long as ordered) ; mounted with Crupper, 4
Bar-Irons, and Leathers and Surcingle.
L. UHL & SONS LTD..
PETRIE BIGHT, BRISBANE.
M<WL~L*
E 0
THE HEART OF THE AUTOMOBILE—
Famous Schebler Carburetor
The best Carburetor for ALL PETROL ENGINES
—either Land or Marine, Stationary or Moving:.
The Schcbler makes your engine develop
greater horse power for a less consumption of
fuel.
The Schelder holds many world’s records.
Booklet and all information free.
Correspondence invited.
ROBERT C. SWAN & CO. LTD.,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Sole Agents for Australia.
r—p
• ? <
mm
f-W'TIM
r
m
Registened
NOTE THE SLOT
The Best Tooth Powder
in The Best Container
Jewsbury& Brown's
§1 Oriental
Tooth Powder
6 W
in the
United Kingdom
All the Family may
use the same box.
WHOLESALE AGENTS in SYDNEY.
Messrs. Elliorf Bros. Ltd.
. . F.H Faulding & Co.
The Top Notch
of Scotch’
a
Scotch
In all these Countries
55
USA
JAPAN
m
is known and appreciated as
‘The Top Notch of Scotch”
One of the principal brands of
fejHE Distillers Company Limited,^
tfGYPTf
Largest Whisky Distillers
in the World.
Capital employed, c ter
EDINBURGH,
_ SCOTLAND. _
L AUSTRALIA,
ATONy
m
\Argentin^
(.CANADA,
straitL
CHINA.
INDIA
THE: BLADE'S THE THING
\iN
Yes—the blade is the feature that we emphasise in the “Plum."
Almost the whole half-guinea’s worth is' concentrated in the perfecting
of a high-grade, silver-steel, . keen-edged blade that will give 365
smooth shaves in a year.
Order one now and we will keep it in first-class order for two years
free of charge.
ALL LOST FREE.
Single Razor. ' Vulcanite' Handle 10/6
Pair, in Double Case, an excellent set 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, splendid quality 15/6
Pair, in Double Case, a handsome present 30/-
Plum Razor Strop 10/6 and 7/6
Other Good Kinds, thoroughly reliable fropi 3/6
Plum Strop Dressing makes keener blad<s tube 1/-
Stick of Shaving Soap that lathers freely 1/.
Razors Ground and Set with care 1/-
Safety Razors, handy and efficient from 5/6
C. and A. Moustache Trainer, shapes the Moustache, worn at
night 2/6. 3/6. 5/6
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED 30 YEARS.
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. EN O, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
Rest and Comfort
for
the mother, and health for the baby follow the
use of the ‘Allenburys’ Foods. They resemble
healthy human milk, in composition, nutri-
tive value and digestibility. Babies fed on
the ‘Allenburys’ Foods invariably thrive well.
PAMPHLET ON INFANT FEEDING
—-AND MANAGEMENT FREE.
MILK FOOD No. 1. MILK FOOD No. 2.
From birth to 3 months. From 3 to 6 months.
MALTED FOOD NO. 3.
From 6 months upwards.
The ‘Allenburys’ Rusks
(Malted).
A valuable addition to the baby’s dietary when
ten months old and after. They provide an
excellent, nourishing and appetising meal,
specially useful during the troublesome time
of teething. Eaten dry they mechanically aid
the cutting of teeth.
Allen a Hanburys Ltd., London, England, and Market Street, Sydney.
ailenburas Foods
j&s
$0
Take Expert Advice
and ride only
BARNET
GLASS
MOTORCYCLE
TYRES
Produced bg the Founders of
Australasias Rubber Industry
DJTD
289 93 Swaraton 5t He lb
231 Clarence St., Sydney
A Strong, Rigid Fence.
“Empire” Fence is not wire-netting, but a
strong, rigid fence, and far neater than com-
mon wire-fencing. The wires are held by a
perfect knot, which cannot slip. The meshes
are small at the bottom for sheep and lambs.
It has no sharp points, will not rust, and is
practically indestructible. '
Is cheap to buy, easy to erect. Two men
can erect a mile per day.
EMPIRE
HARD
STEEL
WOVEN
WIRE
FENCE
T. C. B. Rothwell writes: “The fence is, in
my opinion, a cheap and verv effective one,
and 1 am quite satisfied \v : th it.”
Write for Fully Illustrated Descriptive Cata-
logue, sent post free bv the Sole Distributors,
PARKER, WINDER & ACHERCH Ltd.
BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND. [1
Agent for Australia and I ewZealand—
ESSEX R. IMCOT, 20 Young Street, Sydney ;
and 240-2 Little Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
-m I Hfl
WtMU
‘■ '""M tof
J ' % 'W ,,lM * [iJ "fJ "■
W\
tf, 4 nt, v <^? / . da • ■
w
“ Things done by halves are
never done right.”
rr,
the new aperient made from
Epsom Salts, Senna, Sarsaparilla,
Dandelion, Liquorice and Ginger,
“gets to business” thoroughly.
There are no half measures
about “Golcryst.” Yet there is
no griping nor weakening. “Gol-
cryst” has no equal as a Blood-
purifying and Rheumatism-cur-
ing Medicine.
Everywhere, 3d., 6d. and Is.
Sample posted free by Proprie-
tors,
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO.,
MELBOURNE. h
We are the Only Manufacturers of
Scientific Glassware in Australia.'
We make Scientific Instruments for
every class of Trade, Industry, or Pro-
fession in which they are ' used —
Medical, Chemical, Dairying, Agricul-
tural, Brewing, Meat Works, Bakers,
Vignerons, etc.
We repair every class of instrument,
too. If you want instruments for any
special purpose, write us ihout it.
Our Booklet is Free; shall we send
you a copy?
WILSON NAFIS 8 CO. LTD
Wharf Street, Brisbane, Q.
“LINSEED COMPOUND,” of 40 years
proven for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, etc.


Shipping.
P. and O. BRANCH SERVICE.
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Via MELBOURNE and ADELAIDE.
Wireless insiailed.
PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION AMIDSHIPS.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
LONDON £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 IRs., £l5 15s. & £l7 17s.
Tickets for return, via Suez (second-class), P. and
0. Mail, from £49 19s. to £53 11s.
CILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne: John Sanderson & Co., 11l William St.
Adelaide and Fremantle Agents: Geo. Wills & Co.,
Limited.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Lta.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
II-
Minimum
Deposit.
Mnnw
The Bank with
a Record.
£5OO
Interest
Limit.
is not necessarily an old Bank, although this
Institution can point to over 40 years’ satisfac-
tory service to the public.
Funds now total over £20,000,000, behind
which is the Government guarantee.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
THE STATE SAVINGS INSTITUTION.
116 BRANCHES and OVER 500
AGENCIES IN THE STATE.
The Bank has
no Agencies at
Post Offices.
Head Office :
11 Moore Street,
SYDNEY.
J. H. Davies, Secretary
1 Per
2 Cent.
Interest on
First £3OO
Per
Cent.
On Excess
to £5OO
™i e j)ank of |]orth Queensland
limited.
Authorised Capital .. .. ..£700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK, LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
XIIE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL . .
SUBSCRIBED
PAID-UP (30th June, 1913)
RESERVE FUND ..
£2,000,000
£1,198,534
£1,195,398
£25,000
HSAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS — Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man; George J. Sly. Esq., LL.D. ; Chas. H.
Myles, Esq.; Mark Sheldon, Esq.; Arthur S.
Barton, Esq. ; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors — Jas. Munro, Esq. (Chairman) ; John
Cameron, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.; Geo. Edw. Bunning,
Esq.; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON FIXED DEPOSITS.—
12 months, at the rate of 4 per cent, per annum ; 2
years and over, at the rate of 44 per cent, per annum.
HEAD OFFICE ... - BHISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Colonial fljutual &ife
assurance society limited
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £6,000,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
-1,1 Premiums moderate without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonnes equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P. ,
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Shipping.
"VT ORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD, N.D.L.
-Ll IMPERIAL MAIL STEAMERS,
TO COLOMBO, SUEZ, NAPLES, GENOA, ALGIERS,
SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, AND BREMEN.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Installation.
All Steamers fitted with Laundrv.
FARES TO LONDON: 1., £7l/10/-; 11., £4O;
111., £l5 to £l9. RETURN: 1., £lO7/5/-; 11.,
£6O; 111., £3O/12/- to £37/16/
LOHMANN and CO., General Agents, 7 Bridge-st.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE.
’The largest and Finest Steamer trading between
Australia and San Francisco.
Around World and Around Pacific Tours.
Steamers stop 24 Hours at Papeete—the
“ Pearl of the Pacific.”
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE
Steamers Fitted with Wireless. *Third-Class only.
fTriple Screw Turbine.
SALOON: FARES — Third-class.
London, from £45. £l6 to £2O.
Capetown and Durban, from £3O £l3/13/- to £l7/17/-
Special Round Tickets for Return by Orient Line,
£llO (First-class both ways) ; £B2 (Second-class
Orient). Saloon Return and Stop-over Tickets inter-
changeable with Holt's Blue Funnel Line. Third-
Class Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable
with P. & O. Branch Service.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll4 10s.
SALOON CABINS on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest stan-
dard.
Pamphlets. Time-Tables. Arc., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD. Agents in Australia
Australian Steamships Line
UNSURPASSED PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Fast Passenger Steamers
Sail as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY l
TOWNSVILLE
*CAIRNS
(*Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports).'
NORTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Sept. 27
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Oct. 3
Leaves Sydney Oct. 4
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne October 8
Leaves Sydney October 11
For
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and W.A. ports).
SOUTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Sept. 27
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney October 4
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
ISLAND TOURS!
THE SOLOMONS!
For REST and HEALTH.
S.S. “ MINDINI ”
OCTOBER 18.
Brisbane, Tulagl, Aola,
Gizo, Falsi, Guaualcanar,
etc., etc.
£2O.
To PAPUA
(I’m the Queensland Coast),
A CHARMING COMBINATION
TOUR.
NEW STEAMER—
“MORINDA”
(Maiden Trip)
NOVEMBER 3.
Brisbane, Cairns. Port
Moresby, Yuie Is and,
Samarai, Wooolark Island.
£2O.
BURNS. PHILP & CO., Ltd., Head Office, Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
DIRECTORS:
£3,253,54-0
£2,250,000
£3,253,54-0
£8,757,080
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, Kt., M.L.C.,
President.
The Hon. Reginald James Blade, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Msq. _
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Eosberv, C.M.G., M.L.C.
AUDITORS: Shopheard Edgecliff Laidley, Esq.. Alfred George Milson, Esq.
Head Office-George St.. Sydney. London Office- 29 7 hreadneedle St., E C.
335 Branches and Agencies in me Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London, Agents
and Correspondents throughout the World.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on. Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated
and collected Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE
WORLD. J. TWSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney. Limited.
Capital Paid-Up .. £1,750,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . . . 1,630,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. 1,750,000 0 0
£5,130,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen, Esq.. . .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: E. S. Cape, Esq., and F. W. Hixson, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street. SYDNEY.
London Office: 13 Birchin - Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. H. S.
Littleton ; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Bank of |)eui Z ealand -
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING. GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock
Preference Shares
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
up • • • •
Uncalled Capital
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits
£1,000,000
500,000
500,000
500,000
1,418,117
GRANTS DRAFTS
tain and Ireland, and other places.
on Australia, New Zea
land, Fiji, Great Bri
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
isacts all other usual Banking business.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-Up .. .. •. ..£538,307
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. .. 159,054
Reserve Fund (invested in Govt. Stock) . . 76,500
£773,861
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. '•• • • ■
Gen. Mail., Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
mUE Best Stories written by Australian
A Writers appear in The Lone Hand
Magazine. .Price, 6d. monthly.
“LINSEED COMPOUND,” for Coughs and
Colds. Loosens phlegm, allays irritation.
A Whole Week Saved
SYDNEY to SAN FRANCISCO by the
Oceanic Steamship Company
10,000 tons, Twin Screw Steamers. 17 knots,
Classed 100 A 1 at British Lloyds.
CABINS DE LUXE with BATHS.
SAILINGS PROM SYDNEY—
The through trip to England can be accomplished
in 29 Days via Samoa, Honolulu, San Francisco.
RETURN TICKETS GOOD BY P. &0., ORIENT LINE,
N.D.L., N.Z .S. Co. and S. S. & A. Co.
Tel. 2282 City. Apply— 44 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to j.
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFP’S HAR-
BOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads—steamer to Munviliumbahj
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —-First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Bs. 6d. ; second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars applv:
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
Zdw Points
£- Inventors
CAN 1 OBTAIN A PATENT?
The quickest way to ascertain
this, WITHOUT EXPENSE, is
to write to me describing your invention, enclosing
k small sketch where necessary. Nicety of drawing
is not essential; all that is necessary "at first is to
give me YOUR IDEA.
I will at once inform you whether the idea is
patent-able, and, if so, give the necessary instructions
for further procedure.
Persons desirous of obtaining really reliable advice
or information regarding Patent matters are cordi-
ally invited to consult me personally or by letter. In
all cases a careful consideration of their plans, an
honest opinion, and a prompt reply may be
expected.
A. J. CALLINAN, Patent Attorney,
Citizens’ Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHiPCO
(LIMITED). '
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
T.S.S. WAN DILL A (B<>o(i
tons), titled Win-less
Telegraphy, Saturday,
September 27 and
October 25.
Gran tala (Wireless Tele-
graphy), October i.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
T.S.S. WARILDA, {BOOO
tons), fitted Wireless
Telegraphy, October
18.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
_ Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
Via FIJI AND HONOLULU.
CANADIAN - AUSTRALASIAN IIM
LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
AROUND THE WORLD TOURS.
FIRST AND SECOND CLASS.
SAILINGS :
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION ST HAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Federal & Shire Lines
Adelaide to London In 34 Days,
VIA SUEZ CANAL.
T. S. S. WIL TSHIRE.
12,500 Tons.
CAPTAIN HAYWARD.
SYDNEY.. .. SEPTEMBER 30, 1913
MELBOURNE . . OCTOBER 7, 1913
ADELAIDE . . OCTOBER 11, 1913
FARES TO LONDON.
Saloon. Third-Class.
£4O to £45. £l6 16s. to £lB 18s.
Saloon Fares from Brisbane, £2 extra.
Steerage, £l/1/- extra.
The Saloon accommodation consists of two berth
cabins on the Upper Deck, situated amidships. Well-
lighted and ventilated Cabins, and spacious Decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provi-
sions from cool chambers throughout the voyage.
Electric Light throughout.
Return and Round Trip Tickets issued via Cape
and (or) Suez route. Prepaid passages arranged.
FITTED WITH WIRELESS.TELEGRAPHY.
Successful vaccination certificates and signed sur-
veillance forms must be presented before passengers
from Brisbane or Sydney can be booked.
For illustrated pamphlets and full information,
applv—
BIRT & CO., LTD., Svdney.
BIRT & CO., LTD., Brisbane.
McILWRAITII, McEACHARN & CO. PTY., LTD.,
Melbourne and Newcastle.
ELDER SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
H. JONES & CO., LTD., Hobart.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“Ulimaroa,” “Wimmera.”
"Riverina,” "Victoria
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH A: ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
tfyS MEbKWE CHEST
should e>e irt
YOUR HOME
For the Bush
Home, where the medical
man may he miles »*»»•«
Medicine Chest Is «Men the meam
..« saving lile. It certainly d “* * ' W e
with calling in a doctor tor mino I orJin , ry
pack a chest containing a rtmri) ' ' , , £( i»lly
illnesses and accidents ol We, P P a dirc tii«ns «( *
qualified chemist aowrdlng tm th « t , )IES:
leading physician. THERE ARE■ » * nd Bru l«s
l.inlments and Washes » r Spf Oleines« P»«< l ' rt
Ointments lor external *PP ,, “ tl ® ' , 0 , Lints, Pt«
for Internal taking, with lull stippU
Bandages, etc. Mind there I d whom
Clfast • any open nvnded
show it will approve ol t. I c#nlinoo w«ltl
sent to any address in the s
Carriatre 25/ c P * i<l
address. Write l»r y
?m’s
n»-
mi medicine. supply
FWATSOrt f'Wfcc.E.R
4SO QutEA S*


Hotels, &c.
'EORGE HOTEL,
Kilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 13/- per day.
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It is
the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Ihursdav ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE EAR. <
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30
HOI AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Gent.’s
Aertex
Cellular
Combinations.
SINGLET and
TRUNK DRAWERS.
White
6/6
Post
Free
The most comfort-
able form of
Underwear, and,
being of Aertex
Cellular, the
most healthy.
Made also in other
plain and fancy
Cottons, Lisle
Threads, Woollens,
and Silks.
When ordering
state height and
size of chest.
AO SSS-™ DAVID BRAHAM S CO.,
76 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
(Next door to Farmer’s.)
Williams’ Holder Top
Shaving Stick.
This is the good old
Shaving Stick known to
every gentleman
in Australia, but
now presented in
a new and attrac-
tive form, greatly
enhancing it s
convenience and
economy.
Your chemist will be glad
to show it to you.
-
KILL COCKROACHES
PROCURABLE FROM:
George Gough & Son, Ltd., Bris-
bane.
H. H. Groth & Co., Sydney.
London Pharmacy, Ipswich, Q’land
G. R. Smith, Townsville, ~
Lomas & Co., Warwick, ~
Jack & Co., Dalby, ~
Bryant & McLean, Roma, ~
E. S. Hale, Bundaberg, ~
Newbery & Shambler, Gympie,,,
Peak & Co., Toowoomba, ~
Williams, Ltd., Rockhampton, „
Lamberts, Ltd., Mackay, ~
Alex. Campbell & Sons,
Maryborough, ~
And all reliable Storekeepers throughout
Australasia.
Agents wanted in West & South Australia.
Write to GOUGH’S, BRISBANE.
“LINSEED COMPOUND,” for Coughs and
Colds. Of proven efficacy for cjiest complaints.
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFIOE
Bank of Hustralta
SYDNEY
?' a ?£ he ! *F e °P, el \ for the transaction of GENERAL, BANKING BUSINESS at
Oiiponaiani ■n V < a i eB ~~kydney Federal Capital—Canberra. Victoria —Melbourne.
i Rockhampton, and Townsville. South Australia— Adelaide.
CablJ ,Pm;or traha T I f th ' Tasmania— Hobart. And at 36-38 NEW BROAD ST., London,
emw.a "?™ ade 7°, and drafts drawn on, foreign places direct. Foreign bills negotiated and
fnrwarrtoa et t ers °i credit and circular notes issued to any part of the world. Bills negotiated or
thp * or j Ranking an< * Exchange business of every description transacted within
tne Commonwealth, Cm ted Kingdom and abroad. Interest paid on fixed deposits.
, SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.
nches are open at 3 Moore Street. Sydney; 317 Collins Street. Melbourne; Queen Street.
T>l!.tn an ns- u Exchange. 96 King William Street, Adelaide; St. George’s Terrace,
Hobart; and Canberra (Federal Capital); and 1900 Agencies at
f ' Omces which issue Money Orders in the Australian Commonwealth and Papua,
All n, om V to ° p m - daily, and noon Saturday.
WSf . J’aacb Offices are open for deposits and withdrawals on Friday, 7 to 9 p.m.
witndrawals on demand may be effected at any office within the Commonwealth.
TAMPS pptt R c * )OKit - 3 % Rate of Interest on all Deposits up to £3OO.
- KELL, Deputy Governor. August, 1913. DENISON MILLER, Governor.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
, With er limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queens-
a of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars,
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
1 __ _
■ .riii'P ' '/o >'’
Bam |SHSB^m|mKE^py
if,;: ■
mSWbSBU^B3B^Mi
HOTEL
METROPQLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 11s. per day, or apartments
may he secured separately by the day from 3s. 6d. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
Evening Gowns
Call for Necklets
of the Daintiest & Most Fascinating- Designs.
WE MAKE THEM.
We secure the latest designs each mail, and
make them up on the premises.
We thus show the very best work in Necklets
and yet sell them at bedrock prices.
Our stock of unset jewels is probably the
largest in Sydney, so that we are able at
a moment’s notice to make any distinc-
tive ornament.
As jewels pay no Custom duties, we sell here
as low as in London, and very often
lower.
Fairfax 8 Roberts, Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
PLAIN FIGURES
CASH.
23 8 25 Hunter Street.
3 Choice Peridots or Aqua-
marines and Pearls, set
in 15-ct. Gold Necklet,
choicely cased, 65/-.
Fine Whole Pearls
and Diamonds, set
in Platinum, with
Platinum Neck
Chain, £lO/15/-.
8-Hour Demonstration, Sports 8 Art Union
MONDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1913.
Drawn November 1, 1913 (under the sanction of the Attorney-General).
M
n
r'r
4K
*
r A
Might
.Win
This
£750
FIRST PRIZE:
Diamond Tiara.
2nd Prize, value £4OO
3rd Prize, value £250
Vi.
and 397 other Valuable Prizes.
The first prize last vear was won by Mr. J. W. Walker, Break-
fast Creek, Cowra, N.S.W., A\ip SHII I INO
for the modest outlay of OIII L,L, 11N VJ «
GET A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1913.
LEST YOU FORGET—SEND TO-DAY.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on
November 6. , ,
To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, a list
of the results will be posted. Tickets may be had from Agents
in all towns, or direct from
JOHN W. DOYLE, Secretary, Eight-Hour Committee.
Trades Hall, Sydney.
THE ACCORDEON for Country Residents.
We don’t believe any Accordeon cornea
so near perfection as the Celebrated
STAR Trombone Accordeon.
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price £l.
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price, £1 7s. 6d.
Postage to any address in Australia, 2s. 6d. extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical
Instruments, Watches, Jewellery, etc.,
210 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE.
The “Dudley” Accordeon
Dudley Accordeon, No. 3.
10£in. x s|in.,. Black polished Case 3 turned
Wooden Stops, 3 rows Bell Metal Reeds, 10-
fold, triple divided Bellows, 10 Bone Keys, 2
Nickel Basses, Leather handles. Post free, 25/-
THE
“Rozella” Mouth Organ
<s> O Q Q O 0.0 O-O-Q
THE QUEEN OF MOUTH ORGANS.
Plates of the finest non-corrosive alloy.
Reeds of Bell Metal, fitted and tuned by a
new process, ensuring accuracy of tune and a
rich, sweet tone.
Prices, Solo Model, 20 Reeds, 1/-; Solo
Model, 20 Reeds, Nickel Mouthpiece, 1/3;
Solo Model, 20 Reeds, Nickel Mouthpiece and
Metal Case, 1/6; Concert Model, 20 Reeds,
Nickel Mouthpiece and Metal Case, 2/-; Pro-
fessional Model, 40 Reeds, Nickel Mouthpiece
and Metal Case, 3/-.
SEND TO-DAY.
Post Free to any address in the Commonwealth.
A. P. 6 YKES,
272 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
ARE YOU
DEAF?
If you are deaf or going deaf, you will be glad to
hear of a simple and scientific device which restores
hearing, no matter how old you are. No mystery or
secrecy about it; we describe it fully, and explain
just how it acts. You use spectacles as sight magni-
fiers, and in the same way you use this sound magni-
fier to hear better. Unlike the Wilson
Common-sense Ear-Drums are invisible and comfort-
able. No one can tell you are wearing them. They
rest the ear nerves by taking the strain off them —•
the strain of trying to hear indistinct sounds. What
a relief to have done with that tiring strain. Being
made of the softest Para rubber they cannot be felt,
even when the head rests on a pillow. For the same
reason, a blow on the side of the head will not hurt
the ear. They protect the tender inner parts of the
ear, that are so sensitive, from cold winds, dust, sud-
den and piercing sounds.
So that you may clearly, understand how the Sound
Magnifiers restore hearing, we give an illustration of
one as it lies in the ear. You will notice that the
Sound Magnifier is shaped like a trumpet, and so con-
veys even the faintest sounds right to the natural
drum. Being of the softest rubber, it cannot hurt
the ear. It fits the ori-
fice of the ear with pre-
cision and comfort. the
division that runs across
the mouth is to a lo>v „u
removal and insertion of
the Ear-Drum, and to
brace it.
The shape of the Wilson
Ear-Drum has been chosen
after years of experience as
the best adapt-
ed to carry the
faintest sound.
Of course, if
you have 10-t
the he a r ing-
nerve com-
pletely, or were
born deaf, we
cannot pretend
to cure you. Only a miracle could
do that, in spite of some of the
absurd claims made to-day. But
if you can hear the faintest sound,
do not despair. You will never
regret trying the Wilson Ear-
Drums. We have letters to show
you from deaf people in Australia
and New Zealand, who have been
cured, and you can be cured, too. You may wear
the Ear-Drums day and night, and take them out
whenever you wish. Children can wear them (we
have, special sizes for children from six to twelve).
Even a child can insert and remove them without
the least danger.
The price is £1 (the fee for a doctor’s single
visit). This includes a pair of drums (they are only
sold in pairs), a fine nickel remover, and also an
inserter. After the first pair is bought you may pur-
chase a single drum at any time for Bs., but the
pair you get at first will last quite two years. • Do
not ask for a trial pair. We do not send them out
on trial, and so they are never secondhand.' IJse the
Order Form below, and the Outfit will be sent you
at once, with the fullest instructions. Don’t delay,
but have the comfort of good hearing as soon as you
can.
ORDER FORM.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
103 Arlington Chambers,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne. ,
Please send me an Outfit containing a pair of
Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums, an Inserter and a
Remover, for which I enclose One Pound.
Name
Address
NOTE. —Send Money Order or Postal Note. If a
Bank Note or Sovereign is sent, you must register it.
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘ARABIS’
Egyptian Henna before all others ; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive you. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardley on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.


THE
“STOCKMAN”
RIDING
BOOT
FOR THOSE WHO
CARE ABOUT COMFORT
18/6 BLACK.
20/- tan.
POSTAGE I/- EXTRA.
Clasping with two straps and buckles. . . . Built with due
and particular regard for the man who is constantly in the
sa die ; who wants to have comfort, lightness and durability
about the boots he wears. . . . Single soles.
Please state your size.
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
BRISBANE.
IT WORKED WONDERS.
“While ploughing I wash seized with influenza,”
writes Mr. M. J. McAvady, Ohura, N.Z. “I went
to bed and was so ill next day that I called in the
doctor. He prescribed for me, but his medicine did
no good. A friend recommended me to try Cham-
berlain’s Cough Remedy, and I did. It worked
wonders, and I was able to resume my ploughing in
a few days.”*
Government Notices.
KALGOORLIE TO PORT AUGUSTA
RAILWAY.
Applications for Position of Supervising
Engineer at Kalgoorlie.
APPLICATIONS are invited from persons
competent to fill the position of Super-
vising Engineer at the Kalgoorlie end of
the Kalgoorlie to Port Augusta Railway.
Applicants must have a thorough know-
ledge of Railway Construction in all its
branches, and be capable of handling large
bodies of men. The successful applicant
will be immediately responsible to the
Engineer-in-Chief for Commonwealth Rail-
ways. The salary will be at the rate of
xi 50 per annum.
Applications, accompanied by copies of
testimonials, and addressed to the Secre-
tary, Department of Home Affairs, will be
received until noon on MONDAY, 6th
OCTOBER. 1913.
JOSEPH COOK,
Minister of State for Home Affairs.
Public Notice.
TONGKAH HARBOR TIN DREDGING CO. N.L.
NOTICE OF DIVIDEND.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that a Dividend
(the twelfth) of 10% (25.) per share, amounting
to £15,000, has been declared, payable on October
22. 1913, and for this purpose the Share Register
will be closed from October 15 to October 22 in-
clusive.
Dated at Hobart this 12th day of September, 1913.
Bv order of the Directors,
H. J. WISE, Secretary.
Missing Friends.
A Federal Detective Agency.
J. CANTLON
(late Victorian Detective Police) under-
takes Commercial, Confidential, Next of Iviu.
Missing Friend and Matrimonial Enquiries,
Searches, Surveillance.
49 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
IN
BANANA LAND
About Railway Matters.
This is the tale of “Don Q.”: —
The Queensland Railway Deiiartment has accepted
delivery of one of the McKeen auto-carriages, and
it is now running upon a South Brisbane suburban
branch. So it seems as though the State is to be
saddled with the five white elephants, after all.
As stated in The Bulletin (28/8/’13), the Minis-
ter for Railways announced in the Assembly that
the autocars would not be accepted, the objection
being that they exceeded the “axle load’’ by I6cwt.
Axle-load, in railway lingo, indicates the load that
each axle bears, and as these carriages have four
axles, the total overweight would be 3 tons 4cwt.
per car.
Commissioner Evans • might be asked to explain
how this matter of over-weight was rectified. Evans
is very patient, and very kind indeed to the foreign
contractor.
At one time we were told in the press that the
whole deal was off, and that the Department planned
to build its own autocars (with steam motors) in
its Ipswich workshops. That was the only glimpse
of sanity displayed throughout the whole transac-
tion. Men here threw up their hats with glee when
they read the news, for it meant about £25,000 of
work for Australians instead of foreigners. But
apparently the co. talked Evans over. It would be
interesting reading to have tabled in Parliament a
copy of the McKeen contract, and the whole of the
subsequent correspondence.
That these vehicles will be very costly seems to
be the belief of local railway men. Evans nearly
dropped when he was told the amount of the fuel
bill for the Toowoomba trip. Petrol at Is. 9d. per
gallon may be all right for a light moto. - , but when
you have a 30-ton monster scoffing it up in bucket-
fuls, Barnes’ little surplus of £6000 will soon go
up in vapor.
These American cars are supposed to be 200-hp.
Granted that the h.p. of all petrol engines is purely
nominal and largely imaginable, there seems to be
something unduly wrong about the compilation.
Take the Brisbane to Laidley test run of the car
with a 15-ton trailer behind. It failed by 20min.
to keep mail-train time. Now, our Australian-made
B17 mail engines develop 700-h.p., and handle on
this run a load of 200 tons (it takes 3\-h.p. steam
to handle one ton of load on this route), but the
Yankee alleged 200-h.p. couldn’t handle 15 tons of
load, which means {motor) to each ton
load, and failure at that.
Mechanics in the Ipswich workshops tell me
that the imported cars do not develop anything
near 200-h.p., but Evans has the importing craze
badly, despite the fact that moulders have been
fired from the works and others are under notice
to quit.
These imported cars seat only 70 passengers, and
cost with duty £6374. Our biggest mail train
engines cost us £4250, develop 700-hp., and handle
200-ton loads up the Toowoomba Ranges. The
wretched auto-toys, with their alleged 200-h.p.,
apparently can’t satisfactorily manage a paltry 15-
ton load.
They have their own way of doing things
up North. A young man, found wandering
in a bush-woman’s bedroom while her hus-
band was away, told the Court that he really
didn’t remember anything about it, as he
was soaked in bush-rum at the time. “Then
go down on your knees to this lady and
apologise, or go up for three months.” com-
manded the bush Solomon. After a moment
spent in weighing the relative disadvantages
of going down and up, the rum-soaker de-
cided, and down he went.
The Denham liquor legislation continues
to break its peck. One section says that no
female may b6'served with drink in any bar
or room set apart for drinking purposes.
The other day a Croydon publican .served a
woman in a passage leading through his
hotel, and was summoned for a breach of
the Act. And the Act came the cropper to
which it is getting quite accustomed when
the case was dismissed on the ground that
the passage was not a room within the
meaning of the statute.
“Rangan” : Bush fires were once the daily
terror and often the total ruination of west-
ern landholders. Now they are catalogued
simply as a nuisance. The reason is the
general use of the fire plough, which is now
as common in the West as harvesters in the
THE RASH ACT.
GREGG: “ Here , here , don't you know that's a
dashed dangerous way to commit suicide?”
Riverina. Various runs are now so literally
honeycombed with fire-plough tracks that
when an owner sees the black smoke-cloud,
instead of going baresark, he calmly lights
his pipe and sends a messenger to see which
block has been burnt.
Queensland had many more smiles for
Governor Maegregor at his recent “silver
jubilee” than it had; when he began his vice-
regalling 25 years ago. The North’s own
John Douglas had been appointed High
Commissioner and Administrator of Papua,
and was performing the duties with tact
and ability. It was assumed that the Brit-
ish Government had taken him into
the diplomatic service, and that his future
would consist of a round of Governorships
and other high official appointments. But
Maegregor arrived to supersede him without
apology or explanation, and John was again
a simple Queensland politician. It ap-
peared later that the word “special” in the
terms of his appointment—he was “Special
High Commissioner”—excluded him, accord-
ing to diplomatic usage, from having any
claim to future Imperial emplovment.
Queensland, however, knew little and cared
less about diplomatic regulations, and as it
liked John it sulked considerably and threw
scowls at the Scotchman who had arrived at
Port Moresby to take his place.
The Commissioner for Railways hints in
his annual report at coming increases in
fares and freights, to make good the in-
creased costs. The interest bills begin to
come in, and generally things in Queensland
are not as brisk as they were. Hence the
time is coming to repeat the fatuous old
policy of making the people pay up in times
of slump for what they were excused from
paying in times of affluence.
“Petramos”: Queensland lately got an
immigrant who at one time was a good deal
talked about. His name is Carl Prinz.
With the exception of Jonah few men who
have caused animals any discomfort have
had a rougher experience. He had an act
with 17 lions and Mrs. Lions. At Ports-
mouth (Eng.) one of the family ate portion
of its trainer in full view of the audience.
When the part of Prinz that was not eaten
came out of hospital it found that the lions
had contracted a sickness (paralysis, maybe
—there is nothing worse than 17 paralysed
lions i which had put the whole menagerie
out of the game for good. Prinz philo-
sophically went to work as a stable-hand
until he had prepared some monkeys for a
music-hall debut. Now he has acquired a
farm and will settle down to train pigs to
become good sausages.
That black songster,
the crow, is to have a
price put on his head,
and if the Govern-
ment won’t stand the
cost the local authori-
ties say they must.
The offence of which
he has been found
guilty is spreading the
prickly pear, and that
is a capital crime in
Queensland nowadays.
Unfortunately, nowa-
days is just 50 years
too late. Still, it is
better than no-time.
Jim Kenniff, sen-
tenced to death in
1902, along with his
brother Patrick, for
the murder of Dahlke,
a station-manager, and
George Doyle, a
policeman, is due for
release in November,
1914. Patrick was
hanged, but Jim’s sen-
tence was commuted
to “the term of his
natural life,” and then
—on account of the
crowning of George
V.—to mere “life,”
which, with remissions
for good conduct,
means 12 years. The
conviction of the Ken-
niffs raised a storm of
r >rotest at the time.
Evidence as to the
actual murder was
only circumstantial,
and the most vital
part of it —the part
that hanged Patrick
by the neck until he
was dead, was v'.en
by an aboriginal.
About the most out-
spoken and strenuous
of those who consid-
ered the Kenniffs’
guilt had not been
nroved was Judge
Real.
The foolish habit of whirling on roller
skates for scores of hours has caught hold of
Central Queensland. A while back, one
William Black, of Mount Morgan, snatched
the laurels from William Eckard, by spin-
ning round the same monotonous circle for
80hr. lOmin. But somebody cast a sprinkle
of doubt on the performance, and while this
was being argued, one Aeilson, of Charters
Towers, whizzed for 80hr. 30min. Where-
upon Black decided to carve his name at a
dazzling height, and did the monotonous thing
for lOOhr. Meantime, as likely as not,
Black’s missus was home chopping wood, or
Eckard’s old man was battling single-handed
against a maddening invasion of prickly
pear. In a country where there is so much
wood to chop and so much prickly pear to
fight the Blacks and the Eckhards ought to
be given the frozen eye, and the Neilsons
should be taken by the ear and their noses
turned to the grindstone.
The Denham Government has again
shown what a good Australian it is by plac-
ing an order for the Bremer bridge in Ger-
many. Its explanation is that the foreigner’s
tender was 40 per cent below the local
nrice. How much better off Queensland will
be through sending £6O out of the countrv
instead of spending £lOO in it Denham
hasn’t so far explained.
Whatever Shall We Do?
[For The Bulletin.]
Queensland Assembly has now four political par-
ties. We predict trouble from this abandoning of
the sound old two-party system.— Brisbane daily.
Whatever shall we do
With parties more than two?
How sweetly did existence run
When rival clans were blent in one !
When every man would meekly wait,
Without a notion in his pate,
To do ot once what he was told
When Bills were pushed or place was sold,
And ne’er a one was ever known
To broach opinions of his own,
But promptly ran the floor across
To duck and vote and please the Boss.
With parties more than two
Whatever shall we do?
Whatever shall we do
With parties more than two?
’Twas Lib., or Lab. a while ago,
With each his little row to hoe ;
And, though they differed in their ways.
And each one had his little craze,
Yet on one point they both agreed:
“There is no room for any creed
Or color here but Ours and Us,
So damn this Independent Fuss !
Would you upset this lovely rout
Of parties two, with turn about?
And give the man of honest mind
A chance to leave the ranks behind,
And drop the canting party cries,
And tell the truth that in him lies? —-•
A thing he couldn’t do
With parties only two!”
Whatever shall we do
With parties more than two?
D’ye mean to say you’d let a man
Abjure the precious party plan?
Of sitting dumb and voting blind,
And whistling conscience down the wind,
And start a system wild instead
Where men could vote with Blue or Red,
Regardless if the party fall
So long as Right and Country call?
Why, such a game of fast and loose
Might simply play the very deuce
With Us who run the party race,
And spoil our hold on Perks and Place! —-
’Tis plain ’twould never do
With parties more than two!
QUEENSLAND.
F. B.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, September 20 191 a
My Dear Thargomindah,—
Theconectiv 6 mother, aunt and pietniioH
or coiffured sister of the Bovs’ pi„i a e(J
, turned out yesterda'v
watch the annual sports. Pretty little°Ar 1
Bousfield and her husband did the hot
and received the Governor and Ladv £'
gregor when they arrived. The trufc
had a special tent of their own. but I dS
know whether there was a special brand of
refreshment mside it. On the same day a
the Exhibition, the young blood of th,
Gregory Terrace Christian Brothers’
sported before an equally large body °o°
female relative. y 01
Thousands of people stood ankle deep in
mud what time their hats were total £
ruined by watery raindrops, and their in
adequate umbrellas trembled in the thunder
and waited for Wizard Stone and one Jones
to aviate above the racecourse enclosure
this afternoon. When the bedraggled mul-
titude was quite sure that there would he
no aviation, and also that it (the multi-
tude) had caught a severe chill, it departed
with all its legs moving at once. Arriving
at the city, it found another damp stream
of equally disconsolate people returning
from the Exhibition, where there had been
no repeat performance of the Carnival of
Nations, in aid of the hospitals. The un-
fortunate children were dressed for their
parts, refreshments and the band were on
tj l6 ground, and all arrangements were con-
cluded except the arrangement to hold off
the rain.
On Tuesday night the Orvieto disguised
'tself in some dozens of flags, a whole cargo
ot Chinese lanterns, a ton of palms, a few
extras in the shape of a fountain (suspected
of being another version of the ship’s hose)
a rockery (with a strong resemblance to the
geological specimens used on the nearbv
breakwater), and attracted to its decks sev-
eral hundreds of Brisbane’s social moths
All this because for the first time it had got
past Pinkenba and burst up the river as
far as the New Farm wharf. Girl moths
in pretty dresses floated on the boat deck,
and chaperon moths and married moths and
other species who were unable to obtain
flitting partners folded their wings on the
promenade deck. The Brisbane concert
band made music, and the cook composed a
supper in seven cantos and about 400
stanzas.
Same night the defenders of the country
hereabouts gave a party at the United Ser-
vices Institution. His Ex. and Lady Mac-
gregor looked in for a little while, and were
received by Major Boyd and Captain Had-
dock. Colonel Lee wasn’t there. Ditto Dr.
Hopkins, who sports a Lt.-Colonelcy in some
regiment or other, and who is usually a
faithful ally to these shivoos. He has been
to England in search of health, and from
all reports seems to have found it. But as
he will not be back for about a fortnight he
was unable to attend the party except by
wireless telepathy.
Dr. Elkington, the popular medico who
presides over the Health Department here,
is to be transferred to the Federal service.
It is unfortunate for this State, where he
has been untiring in his work. Recently
he went on a tour of the islands in Torres
Strait, and vaccinated all the natives he
could lay hands on in order to provide a
barrier for the mainland, should Asiatic
small-pox ever be inclined to make*' south.
The Queensland quarantine station, too, has
been made very up to date under his rule,
If the Federal Department hasn’t got a bar-
gain I’ll —I’ll take to wearing elastic-sided
boots. No woman can lay longer odds than
that.
The McCormack drifted in this week, with
one of the Taits and pilot McSweeney in
charge. John found a packed house wait-
ing for him on the first night, and at each
concert since the packing has had to be
done by expert stevedores. Not content
with mulcting the public by means of his
voice, the McCormack went to the races this
afternoon, and won largely. A horse with
an emerald green name, another named Don
Jose, and a third sculled by a saddle-mariner
named Maeterlinck, all assisted John to get
right with the landlord. On Monday the
last concert will be given, and on the same
night Lewis Waller will commence to break
the Butterfly on the Wheel.
There have only been two hops this week,
and thev were quite tame affairs. One was
a twirl given by the Ladies’ Rowing Club,
in the Commercial Club’s shed, and the
other, which happened to-night, was the
distraction of the Young Wimmin’s Liberal
Club. E. Id. Macartney was the only mem-
ber of Parliament to hand in his presence
and patronage.
The split skirt, which is causing so much
embarrassment to our Cousin Sam, is mak-
ing a few attempts to undermine our peace
of mind. Block trotters were cheered a few
mornings ago to see a young but austere
policeman standing by a damsel with pink
cheeks and trembling fingers, who was pin-
ning up a most split skirt with safety pins.
No one knows if the split was the result of
an accident, or of too much perusal of
musical comedy fashions. And whether the
pinning was a command from the Law, or
whether the Law was merely present as a
sympathetic onlooker, are matters likewise
unknown.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.


*av? EXPE ? EN CED MOTOPIST
THEY JIVE
THE
JPMTEST
MILEdtfE
m
■
■
r
p
PUDPEP C*
ALL STATES
new ZEflWfl P • • •


From youth
to old age
>5
See this
mark on
package.
HEALTH
demands constant care.
SCOTT’S builds up
the system, enriches
the blood, repairs life’s
wear and tear, and pro-
tects against coughs,
bronchitis, whooping
cough and all throat
and chest ailments.
The world’s doctors
recommend genuine
scons
Emulsion
Be sure to see the
fishman on the package.
ANTINEURASTHIN
NERVE AND BRAIN FOOD TABLETS are the
scientific result of the research work of the world’s
greatest authorities and specialists. They build up
the nervous system by a process of natural nutrition,
and the benefit gained is lasting and permanent.
Antineurasthin as a NERVE FOOD gives wonder-
ful results in physical and mental overstrain and ex-
haustion, and on account of its beneficial effect upon
THE BLOOD is invaluable in cases of Anaemia, Rheu-
matism, etc. Antineurasthin shows remarkable
effect upon THE PROCESS OF NUTRITION, and
marked and immediate benefit in complaints arising
from weak digestion, dyspepsia and malnutrition.
A FREE TRIAL
will be sent on receipt of 2d. in stamps to pay post-
age by the wholesale distributor, H. A. Goddard, No.
3 Australasia Chambers, 406-414 Queen Street, Bris-
bane; or Branches: 194 Vickery’s Chambers, 82 Pitt
Street, Sydney ; 9-15 Safe Deposit Buildings, Queen
Street, Melbourne; 3 Ellershaw’s Buildings, Cliff
Street, Fremantle; 213 Smeeton’s Buildings, Queen
Street, Auckland.
Serial No. 810. Guaranteed under the Pure
Foods Act of New South Wales by H. A. Goddard,
Sydney, to contain not less than 10 per cent. Pure
Lecithin. No. 810.*
An Excellent Field Glass
THE KEW
is a very high-grade
English - made Field
Glass of excellent
power, splendid defini-
tion, large field, achro-
matic lenses, solid one-
piece aluminium body,
Morocco Leather cov-
ered. KEW certificate
with each glass.
Solid Leather Case,
Post Free,
£5.
A. P. GREENFIELD 8 CO. LTD.,
OPTICIANS,
189=191 George Street, Brisbane, Q.
‘AUSTRALIANS YET.’
By
GRANT HERVEY.
•»«-
Verses of Vim for Full-sized
Men and Real Australian
Women !
“Grant Hervey, the
ardent Republican leader
and most characteristic
of Australian poets, voices
the aspirations of a
strenuous democrat in a
way that would have de-
lighted the heart of old
Walt Whitman.” —London
Look Monthly.
Get These Ballads of a
Bipr Australian!
AutosrraDhed with National Platform and
Literature of the Young-Australia Party, 4/0
nost free, U.S.A. $1.25. From
THE YOUNG-AUSTRALIA BOOK STORE,
Box 81 P. 0.. Gasterton, Victoria. Australia.
AUcocK!s
Established 1847.
Plasters
Eagle Mark.
The World's Greatest
External Remedy.
Pains in the Back
Allcock's Plasters have no equal.
Strengthen Weak Backs
as nothing else can.
Pains in the Side
Allcock's Piasters relieve promptly
and at the same time
strengthen side and restore energy.
Allcock's is the original and genuine porous plaster.
It is a standard remedy, sold by chemists in every part
of the civilized world. Apply wherever there is Pain.
When you need a Pill
TAKE A Brandreth's Pill
Purely Vegetable.
(Est. 1752.)
For Constipation! Biliousness, Headache, Dizziness, Indigestion, Eto<
SOLD BY CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
ALLCOCK MANUFACTURING CO., Birkenhead, England.
99
6*
Socks and
Stockings.
To ensure having the best socks and stockings it is
possible to buy, insist on having
are no hose in the world so good, because
There
no
other have the all-wool qualities., the unshrinkableness
and the soft silkiness of '&es
Perfectly knitted from the best Australasian wools,
they fit snugly and comfortably. They are dyed with
fast hygienic dyes, and they carry with them the
makers' guarantee to replace any pair that shrinks.
Socks and Stockings are made
dip' * in all styles and prices for men,
ladies and children. If your dealer does
not stock them insist upon his getting them
for you.
fn case of difficulty, write
Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, England,
\ in
SL
’■
Hunyadi Janos
The prime recommendation of Hunyadi Janos Natural
Aperient Water is that it far surpasses manufactured
aperients as a remedy for Constipation, Biliousness, Indi-
gestion, Hemorrhoids, Torpid Liver, etc. It is bottled
at the springs, just as Nature creates it, without the addition
of any other constituent.
All chemists sell Hunyadi Janos. Get a bottle to-day.
ON3T
LET US TALK OF EMPIRE!
The SILENT EMPIRE BIOSCOPE is UNBEATABLE.
This statement is easily borne out by the
numerous delighted reports we receive from users.
Being British made with all-Steel Sprockets,
possessing Maltese Cross in Oil Bath, improved
gate and masking device, the Empire is the
Bioscope of To-day.
Showmen !
Our faith in our Machine is so strong that we
will instal a model in your show, and make a
comparison with the machine you are at present
using, and we will stand or fall by the result.
7=7\
U
KELVIN
GENERATING SET
We issue a Special Booklet dealing with these Machines. SEND FOB ONE.
WE ARE SOLE AGENTS FOR THE KELVIN GENERATING SET
“EVERYBODY IS USING THEM.”
JERDANS LTD.,
393 George Street
SYDNEY.
A SURE MOUSTACHE-GROWER,
We have received the most excellent testimonials from men who
CAPI3LLARINE.
We know of not a single case of failure. It is a perfect using
strengthening the roots and making the hair bright and glossy,
it to-day. ht
The C. & A. Moustache Trainer, worn'
shapes the moustache. 2/6, 3/6, S/6,
Price 10/6 Jar, Post Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654
George Street, Sydney.
Established 30 Years. .
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Jobber: Thanks for your assurance that
“about 90 per cent, of Bulletin readers don’t care
a continental whether the De Browns are in Hong-
kong or Timbuctoo, and are sick to death of read-
ing about the movements of the tribe of silver-
tails.’’ You’re right—except that your percentage
is wrong. Also, another x per cent, don’t care a
continental about the Red Page, and a third x per
cent, is utterly indifferent about the Wild Cat, and
a fourth x per cent, never reads a leading article
or a piece of serious verse. A fifth * per cent, sug-
gests that a Chess column should boot out Abori-
ginalties. Say, what’s your business? Do you sell
tobacco? if you do, next time Jones comes in and
says he only smokes Blue Nigger twist, you take all
your other brands and throw them out on to the
manure heap along with your stock of cigars and
cigarettes... .Tea-tree: Your proposition has some
thin shred of recommendation concealed about it.
The matter will be looked into. .. . G.J.H.: Your
hurrying Christian doesn’t appeal to us. He seems
in too great a rush. .. .Norbell: Have made careful
note of your theory that a man ought always to
wallop, and even kick, his “tart” in order to make
her a good wife. But a “tart,” from your point of
view, is property, and it seems wasteful to kick
your own goods, chattels and stock-in-trade. Do
you habitually pound or bash your cow to make it
give more milk ? The Financial Editor holds that
your theory is wasteful, and the Cashier says it
wouldn’t pay. Also, the Business Manager reckons
it isn’t up to much.... Abdul Billjim : We consider
that your intentions are good, anyhow. May your
shadow never frequently grow less—at least
only when the thing is sometimes unavoidable twice
a week or annually... .H.E.: The lady told
you a good story which you put into rhyme. Never
spoil a good story.... Private Citizen: Doing no-
thing to brag about? Why, aren’t we borrowing
harder than any other country in the world?
lnquirer: The problem you set is toe
vast to be handed efficiently in any cor-
respondence column. Each University has about
half a dozen different varieties of robe. An Oxford
D.C.L. wears one garment like a pink Inverness
cape, a white tie such as you may see attached to
the windpipe of any local barrister, and a species of
bashed bowler hat. An M.A. wears a black Inver-
ness with dashes of red about the cape (or hood)
part of it, and a mortar-board head covering. A
Cambridge LL.D. painfully suggests, as regards his
appearance, the D.C.L. of the sister University. The
local Universities have faithfully followed the ex-
ample of the British ones in the matter of cut,
garishness, etc., so far as their garments of dis-
tinction are concerned. ...Syd. C.: Commonplace
and conventional criticism.... R. McG.: Send us the
local paper report of the business ; and we will look
into it Bill Head: True bill, no doubt; but The
Bulletin served it on its borrowers and other
readers a couple of months ago M.R.J.: We
don’t run anv story competitions. Read the notice
over the leading article. .. .W.G.Y.: Can’t discover
any trace of the story. Afraid it never reached this
office. .. .Bellerive: A social tragedy :
MEELEE AT A BALL—ROME.
Under the flare of the
Clear, gleaming light
During a ball ensued
And all round fight
Knives and daggers were drawn
In the bloodthirsty Brawl
To a scene of horror was
Changed the fantastic ball
Parcipitants were wounded in
The diabolical affray
And two victims expired
Before the break of day.
....Norman Z.: The verses stagger now and then
and the idea is old. .. .M.K.T.: Rough work. The
love verse is the best of the batch. Humorous stuff
too labored. None of it worth print. .. .C.8.A.: A
trifle of no value... .Wonyip: Not our sort of stuff.
Try one of the Melbourne weeklies. .. .M. Weir: Be-
low par....J.H.: Sorry can’t use them. Might place
them elsewhere... .0.H.L.: No sale... .0.P.: It isn’t
entertaining.... Barabbas: O Barabbas, where is thy
sting?. .. .H.W.P.: One may do. “Micky” and “Re-
lapse” unsuitable.... Arthur II.: Amusing, but too
wild and raw. . . .Paddy S.: The angry bellow of the
cow-boss urging on his slaves has been done more
convincingly... .Novice: Good, big theme—too big
for you. .. . Geo. A.: You won’t pun here, Ge 0.!....
W.8.L.: It’s easy to be doleful that way—almost as
easy as being dead.... John P.: What’s it all about?
.... Alexa P.: Some good touches, but it is badly
arranged and the general effect is crude. You should
do better with a little practice. .. .Leichhardt: Will
probably get you the money back if you send exact
particulars. .. .Abdullah: Yes, truth is stranger than
fiction. But then, you see, there isn’t nearly so much
of it, and that makes all the difference. ... A. T.
Wetton: According to the final results of the census
of the Maori population, taken during March, 1911,
and forwarded to the Native Minister, in February,
1912, there had been an increase in five years of
2113 persons. The first census was taken in 1874,
when the Maoris totalled 45,470; in 1878, 43,595;
in 1881, 44,097; in 1886, 41,969; in 1891, 41,993;
in 1896, 39,854 ; in 1901, 43,143 ; in 1906, 47,731 ;
in 1911, 49,844. The Under-Secretary in his memor-
andum to the Minister said that “the increase shown
by the present (1911) census may be taken as a
fair index of the position.”
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Swanee: Presumably your picture is about some-
thing, but what it is about is unknown at this
office. .. .Leila B.: The curate’s umbrella is sufficient
to kill it, and there are other drawbacks.... XBL. :
It could certainly be worse —if it tried hard enough.
In fact, we have seen a lot worse, when we took a
heavy supper just before going to bed Bro.:
Things of no account.... Flynn: Very inferior beer
jest. .. .Amy E. H.: It would make a good picture
but it wouldn’t be fair. The present crowd of Bri-
tish visitors has, in the main, been very clear of the
hurried Foster Fraser complaint, which makes a
man pass judgment on a whole continent because he
landed at Sydney and took the night train to Mel-
bourne, and then dashed on board a boat at Port
Melbourne... .8.J.: Young man, vulgarity does not
always pass for wit. Recognition of this fact will
save you much labor in vain.
“G.R.N.”: The reference (B. 11/9/T3)
to Governor Bourke’s Church Act of the
’3o’s, fixing the screws of the old-time Aus-
tralian parsons, brings to mind another epoch
in church history in N.S.W. which goes to
show the resourcefulness of the aforesaid
pilots. In 1863 the calls made by the Church
were so urgent ,and many that they threat-
ened to embarrass the State finances, so
State aid had to be dropped. Bishop Barker
at once called a council, and it was decided
to thereafter pass round the plate in church.
The Bishop issued a circular to all the par-
ishes suggesting this method of raising the
funds, but did not insist on it. The late
Dean Cowper has left it on record that the
parishioners of St. Philip’s raised strong
objections, the chief being that it would make
the service so much longer. The Dean says :
“I undertook to shorten my part of the
service, and the Latin proverb solvitur am-
buJando, which is applicable to many other
anparent difficulties, received illustration.
The trial was made, the difficulties van-
ished.” Prior to this no plate went round.
Those were the “good old days.”


Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. Pop T.ifo wvwiWfcWa
*or Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle. J
has money to lend
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold Citv
and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural < T».?rf lbUrban Pro Perties, or on Freehold
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury HUls „f “nv ’h" of Government
Zealand. iMF*AT LOWEST nmwU™ Australian States „ r New
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a cnndiH™ 11 CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during anv year^lhontTT' 6lB the privile e e of repaying *
Directors— The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.LC Chairman - tlce or payment of any ’fine!
Hon. James Burns, M.L.C. ; The Hon. R. J Black M r ah . e H°n. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman- The
Knox, Esq K.C.; Sir Alex. MacCormick. M.D G klna^r 0 "' J'A Winchombef M.L.C * Adrian
S- HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STRFFT d Actuary: Hichard Teece, F.1.A.,
. 1 ’ h. w APPPDrv o i.
H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
Bargains
FROM
ENGLAND
BARGAINS
FOR
ALL.
PAWNBROKERS’
Clearance Sale.
SEND AT ONCE FOR OUR
full list of
3,500
GENUINE BARGAINS.
astounding value.
Brimming
Pairoi,
over with money-saving possibilities,
used by Royalty and the Nobility.
Bankers:
London County & Westminster Bank
Camberwell Branch, London.
W E^ a : r e oViL y Mo,US'Fr£ Approval” Clls, °" ,erS ’ lle " ce °'> r remarkable
own convenience, iiivour own honie P and if von , the articles yon may choose at your
high quality and exceptional value return them T del,! < h f eu a, ! (1 full V satisfied with the
immediately return your deposit. * OUS wlt^ln Slx months and we will
May we solicit a trial order. o „. . .
Her. Absolute satisfaction guaranteed
or money returned in full.
TERMS OF BUSINESS.-Any Article ’ *
Free, on receipt rcnittance. Vor
not approved and returned us within si,c months^
Read what “The Christian Age” says—
“JJAVIS A Co., of 26 Denmark Hill, have gained
considerable reputation for supplying unredeemed
pledges at very moderate prices. We gather from
then- latest Bargain List that great savings can be
effected by purchasing a second-hand article of
jewellery w.iich has jnst had enough wear to test
its value at about one-third the original cost price
Included in their catalogue are watches by some of
tlie finest in ikers in the world.”
Read what “Great Thoughts” says-
valTnf't» a,,n , 0t exist , ,n " cl ' doubt as to the intrinsic
Ire . I,! 7 'f veiti f>‘“ , ti< le when such advertisers
Aonrovil Svato tbc Koods advertise*! on the
Messrs n P Ahis , ?***'» is by
Messrs DAVN*/?" “! ld ls a Kin ‘' ,|ll “ l ‘ proof that
alhhtv 18 * , C °- lmve ever >’ l,eliof their
L t 0 their customers and prove the
genuine nature of their announcements.’'
Field, Race, or Marine Glasses.
£3/3/- Military Binocular (by Lefaier),
as supplied to officers in the Army and Navy ;
10 achromatic lens'es ; 50 miles range ; shows
bullet mark at 1,000-vds.; saddler made case •
great bargain ; sacrifice, 14/6.
Powerful £-4/4/- Binocular Field
Glasses (by Chevalier) ; 10 lens
magmncation power, brilliant definition, over
60 miles range, great depth of focus, large
held of view; adjusted to the degree
of scientific accuracy; in saddi . made sling
case : tremendous bargain • sacrifice, £l/1/-
Powerfui £B/8/- Double-Draw Bino-
culars, 12 lens magnification power
my nuiiuere), as supplied to H.R.H. the Crown
Prince of Greece ; most powerful glass made ;
name of ship can be distinctly read five miles
from shore; quick focus, brilliant field of view,
colourless achromatic crystal lenses, enhanced
stereoscopic effect, great penetration power ; in
solid brown English leather case; sacrifice,£l/17/6
Gent’s heavy 18-ct. Gold-cased
Keyless Lever Hunter Watch,
unproved action (John Forrest, London); 10
years’ warranty; absolutely perfect timekeeper;
also Double Curb Albert, same quality with
handsome Compass attached; all quite indis-
tinguishable from new; complete, sacrifice, 12/6.
Lady’s handsome 18-ct. Gold-cased
Keyless Watch, improved action
(Allen & Co., London); exact timekeeper; 10
years’ warranty ; also long Watch Guard, elegant
design, same quality; together, sacrifice, 12/6.
(Worth £4/4/-). Real Russian Furs.
Rich, dark sable brown Fur, aft.
long; Granville Stole, deep shaped collar,
beautifully trimmed, 12 tails and headv; large
Granny Muff matching; together, 15/6.
(Worth £5/5/-). Real Russian Furs.
_ Rich, dark sable brown, extra long
Princess Stole, trimmed with head and tails at
back and on shoulders; also large animal Muff,
with heads and tails hanging; in perfectly new
condition ; together, great sacrifice, £l/2/6.
Gent’s fashionable Double Albert,
_ 18-ct. Gold (stamped) tilled, curb
pattern, heavy solid links; sacrifice, 12/6.
Lady’s £4/4/- 18-ct. Solid Gold, hall-
_ _ marked, Diamond and Sapphire
Doublet Half-hoop Ring, claw setting, large
faultless stones ; sacrifice, 18/6.
Lady’s £l3/13/- 5-Stone Diamond
and Sapphire Half-hoop Ring, 18-ct.
Gold, Government hall-marked, claw setting,
containing two large round diamonds of dazzling
whiteness and three beautiful sapphires of
richest quality; sacrifice, £3/10/-
Gent’s £4/4/- fashionable Dark Grey
Tweed Jacket Suit (bv Stroud,
High-class Tailor) ; splendid quality, latest
West End cut and finish, never worn ; breast
39-in., waist 36-in., length 32J-in.; £l/6/6.
21/-
37/6
12/6
12/6
15/6
22/6
186
70 -
266
26/6
Lady’s £5/5/- Solid Gold English,
~,a rk ed, Keyless Watch, highly
nnisheu jewelled iiioveiuent, exact timekeeper,
richly engraved ; 12 years’ warranty ; £l/6/6.
Magnificent Gent’s £l3/13/- Single
wtone Diamond Ring, exceptionally
fine pure white stone, perfect in every respect,
mounted in 18-ct. Gold, Government hall-
marked, claw setting ; sacrifice, £3/10/-
Lady’s £5/5/- Solid Gold long Watch
Guard, handsome and very stylish
in pattern, stamped and guaranteed, in faultless
and new condition ; sacrifice, £l/6/6.
Gent’s magnificent £ll/11/- Solid
Gold English, hall-marked, Keyless
Centre Seconds, Chronograph Stop
Watch, exam, by celebrated watchmaker (W.
Kussell, London); jewelled movement, perfect
reliability in any climate in the world ; timed to
a minute a month; 20 years' warranty; 6 months'
trial; great bargain; sacrifice, £2/15/-
Lady’s magnificent £ll/11/- Diamond
_ and Sapphire Cluster Ring, 18-ct. Gold,
hall-marked ; there are ten white and faultless
diamonds surrounding a superb sapphire of
richest quality ; to appreciate the full beauty of
this Ring it must be seen ; sacrifice, £2/19/6.
Baby’s Long Clothes, superfine
quality, magnificent £5/5/- parcel,
82 articles, everything required; beautiful
garments ; the perfection of mother’s personal
work ; never worn ; great sacrifice, £l/9/6.
Valuable Violin (worth £lO/10/-),
- ■ perfect condition, labelled Stradivarius
Cremona, 1721 ; rich mellow tone, with Bow
and Case, suit professional)or soloist; £l/12/6.
(Worth £3/3/-). Choice Expanding
- • Watch Bracelet; finest workman-
ship, most successful ever invented, will fit
and grip any wrist, thereby avoiding all vibration
and ensuring perfect timekeeping; 18-ct. Gold-
cased ; 6 months’ trial; sacrifice, 13/6.
(Worth £l/15/-). High t superfine quality
- - Chemises, Knickers, and Petticoats ;
magnificent parcel; sacrifice, 12/9.
Spoons and Forks. (£lO/10/- Set).
- _ . _ A 1 quality, silver-plated on nickel
silver, stamped maker’s initials, Queen Anne
pattern ; 12 Table, 12 Dessert, 12 Tea Spoons,
12 Table, 12 Dessert Forks; Service 5-doz. ;
wonderful bargain, £l/19/6; Half-Set, £l.
Fashionable Curb Chain Padlock
Bracelet, with safety chain, solid
links, 18-ct. Gold (stamped) filled, in velvet case;
sacrifice, 10/6; another heavier, 12/6.
(Worth £4/4/-). Twenty-four superfine
_. - quality Nightdresses, Chemises,
Knickers, Petticoats, Combinations, &c.;
tremendous bargain ; sacrifice, £l/6/6.
Pretty Necklet, with Heart Pendant
attached, set Parisian pearls and tur-
quoises; elegant design; 18-ct. Gold (stamped)
filled ; in velvet case ; bargain ; sacrifice, 6/9.
70/-
2S/6
55/-
59 6
29/6
32/6
13/6
12/9
39/6
10/6
26/6
6/9
DAVIS & CO,
(T)
PAWNBROKERS,
26 DENMARK HILL
LONDON, ENGLAND
Ti me spent using
Galverfs
"TooHi fowder
is time spent well.
Local Chemists
and Stores sell it.
Makers l .
F. C. Calvert & Co.,
Manchester, Eng.
For the cleaner the teeth
are kept, of course the
longer they will last and
the better they will look.
Here’s the Engine for the Man
Who Runs His Own Launch.
8-H.P. UNIT POWER PLANT.
hlT^eer^rnidp”/! 6 f nR !?. e at ’ s designed to be operated by inexperienced hands. Every effort
warer r,rp^ P - lfy v 1 desi ? n ' There’s nothing complicated about it. We even build an
m S ignition system to use in connection with this Engine, thus avoiding
ignition troubles. Engine is designed to run on either gasoline or kerosene.
CAILLE PERFECTION UNIT POWER PLANTS
enclosed he efeeL of tn iln fl PliC p y ‘i A x 7 m . e . mber of the family can run them. All parts are completely
feed u 6 heel - „ No ? l] can splash out—no water can splash in. One large,sight-
w blbrlcator °ds cylinder walls, piston pin and crank pin. Nothing could be more simple or require
ifi.ilrl The Engine shown is designed for a 16- or 30-foot launch. Has two cylinders cast
iL in n an auto ™ obll e engine. Requires less space than most engines of the single-cylinder
X 'J P e ; , ~e every effort has been made to hold down weight, every part is strong enough to
stand double the strain that could ever be required.
This is but one of the Caille Engine family, Carried in stock by the
SOLE AGENTS FOR CAILLE PERFECTION ENGINES,
BENSON BROTHERS
51-53 Druitt Street, Sydney; 60 Queen Street, Melbourne
FULL STOCK ENGINEERS’ MACHINE TOOLS.
YOD WILL BE ENVIED
FOR MILES AROOND —
If you become the happy possessor of so elegant and
so melodious an instrument as is illustrated here.
From everywhere folk will gather and listen wonder-
ingly, while you play the masterpieces of opera, song,
and music by this realistic medium.
There is a real attraction in
His Master’s Voice
Gramophones
—their tone appeals at once to the cultured taste.
The “Oak Junior Grand” is, among gramophones,
what the baby grand is among pianos—a possession
that wins admiration and approval for a lifetime.
The Gramophone Co. Ltd.,
163 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
-T
L
$
The Oak
Junior Grand,
£l6 10s.
Let us send you particu-
lars of this excellent
instrument.
Instrument Catalogue,
Record Lists and name of
nearest dealer on request.
\ x\ I / /
$E
Lime -Ifni t Juice.
Brings to your lips the juice
of the lime fruit.
It is a drink that is always cooling and refreshing.”
The children love it. Order a few bottles to-day.
s Large supplies have been lately shipped
from London.
MONTS ERBAT 1* gold by ill iMUllng Storekeeper!.
WAVEfiLEY FOUNTAIN PENS
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
:: FREE
DIFFER FROM ALL OTHERS BY REASON OF
THE ELASTICITY AND PERFECTION OF THE
SX^^ v gg L fS B N yVuSo D «°^ s L K?J L £l E N ™I
Ink is , f‘ault[2ss. TA,n raNS -
; SOLD BY ;
STATIONERS
AND
; DEALERS :
Wholesale Agent; ROBERT HUTTON, 321 Flinders Lane, Melbourne


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE CHILDRENS FOOD.”
Amusemen ts.
|_|ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE. SYDNEY.
■ * Direction C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.50.
ADELINE GENEE,
and
ALEXANDER VOLININ, HALINA SCHMOLZ, VLASTA
NOVOTNA, and the IMPERIAL RUSSIAN BALLET, in
LES SYLPH IDE ti.
PRICES : D.C. and O.S. (hooked), 7/6 ; at door, 6/- ;
Stalls,!/-; Amphitheatre till 7.30,‘2/-; thereafter, 1/-
PLANS AT PALING’S.
Til EAT It E KOY A L, SYI)N E Y.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING, AT 7.45.
THE NEW COMIC OPERA CO.
in
THE ARCADIANS.
PRICES : D.C. and O.S. (Reserved and at door), 6/- •
Stalls, 4/- ; Amphitheatre till 7.30, 2/- ; thereafter, 1/-’
ADEJL P II I THEAT It E, SY D N~E Y.
** Direction GEORGE WILLOUGHBY.
EVERY EVENING.
GEORGE WILLOUGHBY’S PRODUCTION.
THE WONDERFUL, ASTOUNDING,
ASTONISHING MELODRAMA,
MARRIED TO THE WRONG MAN.
BOX PLAN AT NICHOLSON’S.
PRICES: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/- Early Doors 6d. extra.
PA I, AC K TIIISA T it IC. SYI»N K V.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF THE NINETY AND NINE.
NEXT SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 27.
THE BERT BAILEY POPULAR COMPANY
will present STEELE RUDD’S Famous Story,
ON OUR SELECTION.
BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
POPULAR PRICES : Dress Circle and Orchestra Stalls,
4/- (No Booking Fee) ; Back Stalls, 2/6 ; Gallery, I/-: Early
Doors 6d. extra (except on Saturdays and Holidays).
ATIONAL AMI’HITII EAT RE. SYDNEY.
Managing Director : BEN J. FULLER.
BRENNAN-FULLER’S VAUDEVILLE CIRCUIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MORRIS’S WRESTLING PONIES.
DAVIS, ALLEN & DAVIS, “Something New.”
LEONARD WILLARD, “Calling His Bluff.”
ALBERT & ROZELLA, Novelty Midgets.
JEWELL & JORDAN, Human Mocking Birds.
FRANK MOYSTON KELLY, “Oh, but I’m Sick.”
PRICES: 3/-, 2/-, 1/6, 1/-
Salurdays and Holidays, 3/-, 2/-, 1/- Plan at Theatre.
/N ONT (To BDIA HALL, SYDNEY.
MONDAY : EVENING NEXT.
AT 8 O’CLOCK.
THE SYDNEY STAGE SOCIETY
presents
THE BRACELET, by ALFRED SUTRO.
THE TWELVE POUND LOOK, by J. M. BARRIE.
THE MAN OF DESTINY, by BERNARD SHAW.
BOX PLAN PALING’S.
LACIARIUM AND OLYMPIA, SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
“BUST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEE—SATURDAY.
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRAS.
3d. to 2s. Plans at Nicholson’s (No Extra Fee).
g PENCE It’S LYCEUM, SYDNEY'
UNPRECEDENTED SUCCESS
of
SPENCER’S SPECIAL FEATURE,
SHIPWRECKED!
The Best of its Kind since “The Admirable Crichton.’
THE KINETOPHONE.
TALKING PICTURES. ALL NEW SUBJECTS.
BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
MPEIt 1 A L ROLLER RINK,
Loot of William Street.
A REFINED KINKING RENDEZVOUS
for
FASTIDIOUS PEOPLE.
NOW OPEN. THREE SESSIONS PER DAY.
GORDON GRANT,
Manager.
I C Iv A It 1) S’ TIVOLI XHE A T It E.
Personal Direction Mr. HUGH D. McINTOSH.
GENE GREENE, the Emperor of Ragtime.
EARLE REYNOLDS & NELLIE DONEGAN, Skaters.
FANTON’S ATHLETES, Sensational Aerial Act.
WILLETXE WHITAKER and F. WILBUR HILL,
featuring their world-famed Darkie Folk Songs.
4 QUAINT Q’s, Humorous Burlesque Artists.
8 SAXONES, Enchanting Melodies & Exquisite Dancers.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
Prices: 5/-, 4/- and 1/-
O' PEIt A II OUSE, MELBOU It N E.
Personal Direction Mr. HUGH D. McINTOSH.
MEIIIAN’S ACTING DOGS.
FRANK PARISH, Sensational Novelty Dancer.
JULIA GONZALES, Intrepid Trapezist.
A. G. SPRY, the Cute Cosmopolitan Comedian.
GREAT GOLDEN TROUPE OF RUSSIAN DANCERS,
SINGERS, AND INSTRUMENTALISTS.
DIAMOND & BEATRICE, Instrumental Musical
Specialty Artists.
ALBERTO MARINI, Italian Tenor.
Plan at Allan’s. SPPM’RICES —45., 35., 25., Is.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee: GEO. MARLOW LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, SEPTEMBER 27.
Reappearance of the Irish Singing Comedian,
ALLEN DOONE, in a Revival of
A ROMANCE IN IRELAND.
ADMISSION: 5/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/- Plan at Pianola Co.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY), SEPTEMBER 25.
THU QUINLAN OPERA CO. in
TALES OF HOFFMANN.
To-morrow (Friday), September 26, AIDA.
Saturday, September 27. TANNHAUSER.
Monday, September 29, THE MASTERSINGERS.
Plan at Allan’s. Reserved Seats and Dress Circle,
10s. 6d. and 7s. 6d. (at doors). Balcony and Stalls,
ss. Pit and Gallery, 2s. 6d. Early Door, Is. extra.
TI! E A T R E
Direction J.
K O V A L. MELBOURNE.
C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Reappearance of FRED NIBLO, supported by a
Distinguished Company, in
THE FORTUNE HUNTER.
PRICES: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls. 6/-
Stalls, 4/. Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
TJirc KING’S THEATRE. MELBOt'RNE,
Sole Lessee and Manager: William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Reappearance of the Favorite
MISS EUGENIE DUGGAN,
Supported by
H. R. ROBERTS,
In the Modern, Up-to-date Drama,
THE CONFESSION.
POPULAR PRICES. PLANS AT ALLANS.
M
A.JESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees: AMALGAMATED PICTURES LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.10.
HARRY CORSON CLARKE
and his American Comedy Co., including
MISS MARGARET DALE OWEN,
In the Sparkling Comedy,
WHOSE BABY ARK YOU?
Prices: 45., 35., 25., Is. Plans, Allan’s & Menzies’.
fjOll THEATRE. MELHOFRN E.
Lessees . . Messrs. BRENNAN & FULLER.
Sub-Lessee REYNOLDS DENNISTON.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.10.
HUGH C. BUCKLER and MISS VIOLET PAGET.
Supported by a Brilliant Comedy,
In the American Comedy Drama,
BOBBY BURN I T.
Prices: 55., 35., 25., Is. 6d. & Is.
Plans: Allan’s, Grand, Menzies, Oriental.
Birch & carr o l l
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office : ROTHWELL CHAMBERS, BRISBANE.
WIRTH BROS., LTD., GREATEST SHOW
ON EARTH.
CIRCUS, HIPPODROME & ZOO.
WIRTHS’ PARK, MELBOURNE.
NIGHTLY AT 8. DOORS OPEN AT 7.
STUPENDOUS ATTRACTIONS.
THE DEATH-DEFYING DANTES
La Belle Victoria
Flying- Cadonas
Bastien Family
Marvellous Alfredo
Signorita Dolinda
Educated Elephants
Nelson Family
Bastien Brothers
Sisters Stair
Mdlle. Mamie
Hobson Sisters
Trained Polar Bears.
Thrilling and Daring Equestrian and Wild Animal
Performances.
And a Host of other Hair-raising Features.
Melbourne season positively closes SEPTEMBER 27.
Provincial tour commences at Yea, SEPTEMBER 29.
OLYMPIA. OLYMPIA.
L Y M P I A. MELBOURNE.
(Just across Princes Bridge).
WHERE ARE TO BE SEEN THE UNRIVALLED
SPENCER’S PICTURES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS AT 2.30.
EVERY NIGHT AT 8.
%A# E S T’S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
nn: best WESTS PICTUEES thb best
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8. Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays,
and All Holidays at 2.30.
Tjie Greatest Pictorial Entkui'rise in t:ie World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be
seen at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change,
every week. Prices—6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
re
m
Good Tools at
Low Prices for the
Engineer, Plumber or Tinsmith
Few houses specialise in the above —Danks’ do. Our Tools
facilitate good work, save you undue effort, and cost you
less money. Orders through the pos receive careful atten-
tion —please add estimated postage or carriage, to prevent
delay.
These few items show the advantages of buying from a
Speciality House. Mention this paper.
Electricians’ Insulated
Pliers 27-
Electricians’ Insulated
Screwdrivers .... 1/4
Tape Measures, in
Case, 66ft., from 1/6
Plumber s’ Bench
Vices, from .... 27-
Plumbers’ Pipe Vices 2/6
Disstons’ Plumbers’
Saws, with one
edge for cutting
wood and one for
cutting iron, spe-
cial value
4/6
Extension Hack Saws.
Stocks and Dies from best
makers.
Files for sharpening.
Metal-cutting Saws.
Wrenches, for all purposes.
Tinman’s Stakes and Bick
Irons.
Emery Wheels.
Brass Steam Fittings.
Treadle Grindstones, with
ball-bearing fittings.
Tube and Pipe of all kinds,
etc., etc.
Plumbers’ Wood
full assortments.
Tools in
JOHN
PROPTY.
DANKvS LIMITED
THE METAL-WORKERS’ HOUSE,
324 Pitt St., near Liverpool St., Sydney. 391-399 Bourke St., Melbourne.
This is the pen. The
British-made Safety
Fountain peu the
riMOT
This is the pen
that fills itself, and
cleans itself in fill-
ing—the ON OTQ,
This is the sim-
plified pen that
lias really sirn-
pl fied writing —
Che OiNOTO.
Th is is the self-
contained pen
■ that needs no
filler tb e
ONOTQ,
This is the pen for your pocket. The Safety
pen that is really safe and only costs 12/-.
Carry it at any angle
Once in the pocket the Onoto becomes
a sealed tune, yet it is always ready
to write anywhere, any time, as soon
as nib touches paper.
It is the five qualities mentioned
above that make the Onoto a great
time and trouble saver—the pen to
possess. Get one to-day.
the pen—never leaks.
Price 12/- and upwards, of all Stationers, Jewellers, and Stores. Booklet about the Onoto
Pen fiee on application to I'hos Db I. a. Hue & Co., I.td. 204, Bunhiu. Kow. London, E.C..
or the Australasian Representatives Norman l aker & Longhurst. 50 York otreet, oydney.
Ask for ONOTO I NX-best for all Pens.
CARBIDE.
For First-C!ag s
Results use
Best
CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
ANY CHILD CAN TAKE GOOD PICTURES WITH
The Minute Button Camera
Takes, Develops and Completes an
Excellent Portrait in One Minute,
THE CAMERA DOES IT ALL ALMOST SELF-ACTING,
NO KNOWLKUOfc ol
PHOTOGRAPHY
NEED Eli.
No Dark Room
No Focussing.
NO PRINTING.
NO TROUBLE.
Splendid for Pic-nic*
and Excursions.
'PIIE Complete Outlit
1 carriage paid 1 for
H A LF-A-CROWN
including everything re-'
quired. ready fur use, and
fully illustrated printed
directions. Additional
Ilf THIS STYLE. packages of three plates.
Four Pence, or la. 3d. per
dozen plates. Everything ts quite simple nod easy. Takes really
good portraits, that will last a life-time. Take the outfit in ynu>
pocket to a pio nic or excursion and everyone will be delighted
The Union Co.. 299 Elizabeth St., Melb
For the Country Horseman
The saddle here illustrated is expressly designed
for country use, for stock riding, etc., and is built
of the best materials throughout. If any of our
friends are requiring such a saddle they will find
this a genuine bargain.
It has a hogskin seat, a plated bar-tree, extra
long flaps, with points to buckle below. An economi-
cal 0 feature is the skirt, which extends all round
and thus adds years of wear to the saddle by pro-
tecting its interior from the weather. It has a
deep, “sweepy” seat, 4in. kneepads, nickel-plated
iron stirrups, and double buckle leather girth. The
price complete is £3/13/- Mention of The
Bulletin when ordering will ensure your having a
leather surcingle given in free, and the saddle will
be forwarded freight paid. It is to be obtained
from J. p. Talty, 388 Sussex Street, Sydney.
Tested
and
tried
and prescribed for thousands ot cases
of weak digestion and loss of health and
strength- The vast number of testi-
monials received from Medical men
testify to this. It is the finest Health
Food-Drink for all ages, made °
purest milk and cereals.
HORL'CKS
MALTED MILK
is immensely popular in Australia.
It is ready for use and needs no
cooking and makes a most delicious
drink —giving health and strength to
all.
Of all Chemisti
and S tores ,
Get it at the Soda
Fountain.
Australia
has proved
it best
“There
CORRESPONDENT writes: LoNB
feature in _.i, chp
' | jjjg
Hand each month that is/dumber.” '^ e
price chiirged for the whole
price Tn.-p- Hand is 6d.


Beauty of Skin
Beauty of Hair
i4ifiBZ£
V
Preservedby
Cuticura Soap
Assisted by an occasional use of
Cuticura Ointment. No other emol-
lients do so much for poor com-
plexions, red, rough hands, dandruff,
and dry, thin and falling hair.
Cuticura Soap and Ointment are sold throughout
the world. A liberal sample of each, with 32-page
booklet on the care and treatment of the skin and
scalp, sent post-free. Address B. Towns & Co.,
Dent. K. Svdnev, N . S. W.
Clogged-Up Liver
Causes Headache
It’s a foolish proceeding to suffer from
constipation, sick headache, biliousness,
dizziness, indigestion and
kindred ailments when
CARTER’S LITTLE
LIVER PILLS will
end all misery in
a few hours.
Purely vege-
table. Act
gently on
liver and
bowels.
Carters
•ITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
The GENUINE must bear signature
5
Her YoutfS
Dr&^AfcLENJ
Mexican
WALNUT a TAIN
for Grey Hair
If THE
only permanent really satisfactory
ONE SOLUTION Hair Stain
ALU CHEMISTS AND STORES
FOR A FAIR DINKUM GO
■jrxLX — mg
r
MEZON
Accordeons
The World’s Best
35/-, 42/- 63/-
Sole Agent:
LYONS,
Bourke st.,Melb.
“Linseed Compound.” The “Stockport Rem-
edy for Coughs & Colds. Of 40 years’ proven efficacy.
Drill Eight Times
As Many Holes
Per Hour.
Yes, from four to eight times as many
holes can be drilled every hour by using
HERBERT’S
Patent Ball-Bearing
DRILLS.
You can’t afford to continue with the old-
style sensitive drill, when rival plants
aie equipped with this more-modern
machine. Modern machinery that lessens
labor and saves time has become an abso-
lute necessity in these days of keen com-
petition.
Single Spindle Ball-Bearing Drill.
This PATENT, BALL-BEARING DRILL has so many features of excellence that
it must appeal to you. Here are a few leading pointsßuns absolutely cold at all
speeds only needs lubricating once a year—Bearings cannot get out of adjustment
Minimum power consumed in proportion to work done.
\\ rite or call on us and learn all the “reasons why.”
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO. LTD.
535 Kent Street, SYDNEY
486 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Buyers of
HORROCKSES’
LONGCLOTHS and
MADAPOLAMS
LATEST VICTOR 7
GRAND PRIZE
BRUSSELS
EXHIBITION. 1910
have a guarantee if they will see
HORROCKSES’ name on Selvedge that they
are getting the very best that the Old Country
Produces.
Decline all Substitutes
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and Storekeepers.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
Tho Original and Only Cenuinm
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices In
England—
l/H, 2/9 * 4/fc.
Made in England.
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
eftectuall y
cuts short all
attacks si
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
*he cough of BROHCHITIS and
COHSUMPTIOH.
Acts like a charm In
DIARRHCEA and simple DYSENTERY.
The '“Swan-Safety” is simpler and more reliable than any
other pen made; may be carried in any position, in any pocket,
handbag or trunk, without fear of leakage; with the “ladder”
feed, erratic working is out of the question; the nib is the
product of over 60 years’ experience; the holder is beautifully
balanced and holds a good supply of ink.
SWA
FOWHTPEN.
Sold by all
Stationers.
Catalogue Free on Request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London, W.C.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only) :
J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255aGeorge St., Sydney
m
mm
mm
TPPTH^PASTEv
SMOKERS and
NON-SMOKERS
find Pebeco Tooth Paste the best remedy for any disagree-
able taste. It makes your breath sweet and fragrant and
restores tinted teeth, without injury, to their natural color.
Pebeco is a complete and ideal health course for the mouth
and teeth.
OBTAINABLE ALL CHEMISTS.
Trial Tube of Pebeco, with useful Book and Interesting
test, Tree for three penny stamps, on application to the
Bole Agent,
O. ARNOLD
(Dept. M), 6 O’Connell Street,
(WHOLESALE ONLY).
Sydney
The Inky Way.
The linotype again! A London paper has just
apologised for saying that at a certain co-operative
society s picnic “25,000 rums and coffees were dis-
tributed. ’ It added: “Obviously ‘rums’ should have
been buns,’ and we deeply regret the unfortunate
misprint Now if that paper had told the whole
S °l td truth, it would probably have called it “the
maddening misprint.’’ Suppose an editor happens
to state, in the “Personal” column that the lost
soul of Smith got a jug of cold water last Thursday,
when it didn’t! Or that it was given a block of ice
to put on its tail, when it wasn’t! Is that a libel!
It hardly seems like one, though it must certainly
be an aggravation if Smith (deceased) gets a chance
to read the paper before it blazes up. And surely it
isn’t up to any paper to apologise because it said in
error that a large number of people got something
warm and comforting for the stomach instead of the
rock-bound and imperishable bun.
“Penman”: While the proposed Evening Mirror
must be set up in opposition to Melb. Herald if the
business is handled with ability, what a gruesome
collection there is in the graveyard! Among
dailies the defunct ones include an Echo, Evening
News (2), Mail, Standard, and World. And of others
the Ant, Arena, Bulletin, Champion, Criterion,
Dispatch (killed by the concealed viciosity of a
contributed poem, “To Agnes,” with awful letters
beginning the lines), Eagle, Daily News (very old,
bought by the Argus), Farmers’ Journal (from the
Age office), Examiner, Daily Gazette (very old),
Humbug (Marcus Clarke’s), Federal Australian,
Irishman, Illustrated News, a former Life, Mag-
pie, Patriot, a former Sporting and Dramatic,
Sketcher, Sportsman, Telegraph, Town and
Country, Touchstone, Town Talk, Weekly Argus
and Age, Victorian, Yeoman. But so far as the
defunct dailies are concerned, reflect on the growth
of Melbourne. There is now more space for two
than there was available for one when most of the
previous attempts were made.
W. N. Willis, one-time of Sydney, is discredited
with another book by the Athen/Kum (London).
The title is “Why Girls Go Wrong,” and the
Athenaeum gives the contents short, not to say
hangman’s, shrift. “We doubt whether this badlv-
written book, with its gaudily sensational cover, will
do any good. Some of the author’s remarks are
amazing, if not fatuous.”
■* * * *
The death of John Miller Sweet removes a well-
known N. S. Wales journalist. He was connected, as
owner, for many years with the Newcastle Herald,
and afterwards acted for a long period as Sydney
representative of that journal, which he founded
after serving his apprenticeship with the Maitland
Mercury. His widow was a daughter of James
Fletcher, so long M.L.A. for Newcastle.
“Marloo”: The morning paper had arrived at the
Dago oyster shop. Andru, the boss, who is unable
to read da Englese, stepped to the front door and
ejaculated, “You read da war news, Snaky!” In
answer, a lean, hungry-looking youth entered, very
willingly, for the raw wind had bitten into him.
Snaky unfolded the sheets and slowly droned out
the required information. Andru was greatly pleased.
“By Gar, Snaky, dat da boshta news,” he said. “Reada
agen.” Glancing at the column, Snaky delighted
Andru’s ears with this: “Eleven hundred Bulgars
surprised 700 Greeks near Adrianople. The Greeks
fought bravely, killing 600 Bulgars. The remainder
fled. The Greek losses were slight.” Andru’s eyes
sparkled, while he jumped round with excitement
“By jinga, Snaky, you read da gra-and news. I ver
pie-eased. I shout you da feed. What you like?”
Snakv made it stewed oysters. When I
was " handing over my dues at the counter
Andru pointed to the place where Snaky had found
“the gra-and news.” He requested me to read it
again. I was about to oblige, but, after a look at the
paragraph, remarked that I had forgotten my glasses.
Snaky was a fraud. He had basely concocted “da
boshta news,” and the item Andru had pointed to was
a prattling paragraph about the Hague Conference.
* * * *
“Gouger”: Have you ever had the mortification,
brainy brothers of the casual pen, to behold the
stolen product of your very soul in the columns ot
some sneaking piratical paper? It is not the un-
authorised printing that hurts, brothers; it is the
loss of beer and cheese. A North Queensland weekly
of some tonnage is a confirmed paragraph thief.
Again and again had it lifted the fruits of my
own genius, and I had borne it; but at last I
wrote and said that, as the paper honored itself
bv printing matter of mine which a Red Rag had
already paid for, it might perhaps like some for its
very own. And then I made the fatal error of
sordidly mentioning money The answer was silence
deep as the caverns of death, persistent as the mur-
mur of the sea. Truly the road of literary genius is
beset bv flat beer and sharp burglars, and the vul-
tures, waiting by the ink-smeared track, pick the
hapless brains of genius without giving a bob in re-
turn ! # * *
“Patrick Melon” : W T e had had a bad week in the
office of the Kangaroo Advocate. The reporter had
been paid last publishing day, and hadn t been pre-
sentable since. The boy had pied a colurnn. The
comp was sulky. I had the influenza. We were
short of copy. There hadn’t been even a police-
court case, and we were all hunting round for news
At the last moment the long-legged reporter rushed
in with “The Mayor’s missus has got twins! Run
off a par,” I said. He did, and did it well, finishing
off bv congratulating Alderman and Mrs. Fitzmug-
e-ins on the new arrivals. There was no time for
proofs “Read it in the stick,” I told the comp
Biit iust then the Mayor came in and took the staff
out to drink the kids’ healths, which we did—twice
for each of them. 1 believe the par. wm afterwards
read in the stick. Anyway, at nine o clock next
morning the Mayor rushed into the office without
Ws hat or coat. Holding up the paper he de-
manded in blazing language what we meant by con-
gratulating him on the new animals.
IN LONDON.
[For The Bulletin.]
There’s rain upon the murky streets and black clouds
in the sky,
Where busy crowds of London folk go hurrying
ceaseless by ;
I know there is not any face my eyes may chappe to
see,
lo send an answering glance to mine, or think one
thought of me.
There winds the traffic lumbering on beneath the
great St. Paul’s,
While o er my heart the London smoke with sickening
odor falls;
And thoughts of Sydney blind my eyes, and Sydney’s
wattle days,
W hile London folk go silent by upon their London
ways.
I see a city fair, and far, far south beside the sea,
Whose tepid waters lap the stones beside the busy
quay,
Where flocks of gulls lean out to catch the sunlight
o’er the bay,
Dear southern sun and Sydney town, twelve thousand
miles away.
I have a dream of harbor boats, like fairy craft they
glide,
Slow-moving toward the sheltered cove or out upon
the tide—
The red sun casting radiant glow upon the city dome,
And faint upon the western sky the dear hills of
my home.
there s rain upon the murky streets and black clouds
in the sky,
And endless crowds of London folk for ever hurrying
by;
I turn my face toward the South, away from
England’s May,
Por all my heart’s in Sydney town, twelve thousand
miles away.
M. E.


The BEST HOUSE for all
SHOOTING REQUISITES
a
B.S.A. MINIATURE RIFLE, No. 2 MODEL,
22-calibre, bolt action, self-cocking, 24in. round steel barrel;
length overall 41in. ; weight, about 541 b.; screw adjusting
rear sight to 200 yards, barleycorn front sight, walnut stock.. 32/6
Postage on one Rifle, 2/3 N.S.W. ; 4/2 Inter-State.
B.S.A MINIATURE WAR OFFICE RIFLE. No. 3 MODEL, same
make as No. 2 Model, but improved, and fitted with target sights
Freight paid
B.S.A. MINIATURE WAR OFFICE REPEATING RIFLE, 22-calibre;
same description as No. 3 Model Freight paid 65/-
THE SILENCER ITSELF.
THE SILENCER
TAKEN APART
The B.S.A. Rifle Silencer, to fit the B.S.A. Miniature
Rifles, 22-cal.; also Winchester Kifles, 11)02, 1904 and
1906 Models Trice, 25/- each.
Postage, N.S.W., 9d. Inter-State, 1/2.
The Rifle shown above has Silencer fitted.
MICK SIMMONS LTD.
Branches :
City, Suburbs 8 Newcastle.
Head Depot: Haymarket, Sydney, n.s.w.
All Kinds of
GUN and
RIFLE
REPAIRS
Executed,
Send for our
Price List of
Guns, Rifles,
Ammunition, etc.
Post Free Anywhere.
/a
Mauser Carbine and Pistol combined; 10-shot,
self-feeding, self-ejecting, sighted to 1000 yards.
Delivered
automatic
£51151.
‘The Savage” Repeating Hammerless
Rifle, 22-calibre rim fire, 24in. octagon
barrel, slide action, dismountable, pistol grip, handles
short, long, or long rifle cartridges ; is loaded with a clip similar to
the Military Rifle, two clips with each rifle, each clip holds 7
cartridges: weight, about 5Rb Freight paid,
Extra Clips, 1/6 each £3
REMINGTON RIFLES, No. 6 Model,
22 Calibre R.F., 20in. round blued /*%
steel barrel, weight # O C>
Or with Sliding Sights ... OJ/_ Postage—l/6 N.S.W.;
2/8 Inter-State
Stevens’ “Little Krag,”
22 Calibre Rim Fire, bolt action, blued steel
round barrel, 20in. long', walnut stock, steel scroll trigger
guard, V-sight, length over all, 36in. ; weight about 3|lb.
Post. ge—l/6 N.S.W. ; 2/8 Inter-State.
18s.
PUMPS WATER AUTOMATICALLY I
GET OUR FREE TRIAL
OFFER.
Low in Hrst cost, easy to instai, no expense to operate, any
capacity desired for Country Homes, Farms, Dairies,
Gardens, Irrigation, Town Plants, ' Railroad Tanks, etc.
RIFE HYDRAULIC RAMS
RAISE WATER 30 FEET for EVERY FOOT OF FALL.
Satisfaction Guaranteed. Over 7000 in use.
If there is a stream, spring or pond within a mile—
WRITE FUR FREE PLANS and BOOK.
2613 Trinity Bldg. RIFE ENGINE CO. New York.
Will Andrade « BOOKS.
Any of these Catalogues
Free for the asking :
(1) Plays, Recitations.
(2) Magical Goods.
(3) Useful Books.
(4) Building Books.
(5) Mechanical and
Engineering Books.
(6) Medical Books.
(7) Socialistic Books.
(8) Sixpenny Novels.
(9) Australian Books.
(10) Athletic Books.
(11) Wigs, Beards,
Grease Paints,
Masks.
East Method of Learning French, German,
Italian, Spanish, 1/7 each language; Speeches and
Toasts for all occasions, 1/1 ; Every Man His Own
Carpenter, 1/1 ; Bernard Macfadden’s Building of
Vital Power, 6/4 ; Macfadden’s Superb Virility of
Manhood, 6/4 ; Macfadden’s Sweethearts for Lives,
6/4 ; Amateur Conjuring Book, easy tricks, illus-
trated, 7d.; Boxing and Self-Defence, 1/2 ; Book
of Love Letters, 1/- ; Hypnotism, Mesmerism and
Clairvoyance, 1/1; Horse Doctor, 1/1; What Young
People Should Know, Confidential Talks, 1/1 ; Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book of Nature, the only
genuine and complete edition, 3/6 ; New 1912
edition, enlarged, 32 extra plates, illustrating
female anatomy, handsome cloth cover, 6/- ; N< w
Tricks with Cards, 1/-; House Painting, Paper-
hanging, Whitewashing, etc., 1/4 ; 3000 Priceless
Secrets, 1/8 ; Irish Jokes and Witty Sayings, 9d. ;
Complete Letter Writer for Ladies “and Gentlemen,
1/-; Dancing Without an Instructor, 1/-; Lovers’
Guide to Courtship and Marriage, 1/-
WTAND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
MASKS
For Fancy Dress
Balls, Skating
Carnivals, Pro-
cessions, etc.
Large Variety.
Write for List.
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
2] FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne.
HAVE REGARD TO VOUR
BEST INTERESTS BY APPOINTING
1
The Permanent Trustee Company
of New South Wales Ltd.
Executors, Trustees, Administrators, Agents, etc.
* AMPLE SECURITY ASSURED. TRUST ACCOUNTS ALWAYS OPEN TO INSPECTION.
ESTATES AND PROPERTIES EFFICIENTLY MANAGED.
EVERY DP:SORIPTION OF TRUSTEE WORK UNDERTAKEN. FULL DETAILS ON APPLICATION.
17 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager. [1
FARQUHAR’S
Agricultural Machines
are the most economical because the first cost is
the only cost, and as quality is the prime factor
in their construction they longest and
best service, and eventually prove themselves
the least expensive. „
We manufacture Engines, Boilers, Traction
Engines, Saw Mills, Horse Powers, Plows,
Harrows, Cultivators, Corn Planters,
Cotton Planters, Grain Drills, Potato
Diggers, Corn Shellers, Store Trucks, etc.
Write for Free Illustrated Catalogues.
Correspondence in all languages.
Cable Address : “ FENANKLE,” New York.
A. B. FARQUHAR & GO.,
Cotton Exchange Building,
NEW YORK, U.S.A.
BOOKS YOU CAN’T GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1913 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, *ls 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is Pd each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Sd, and all tiie Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, is Gd. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop llandybook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Games,
Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s 6d. Aubt. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
op Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, Us. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blateh-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. Plow to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New’
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is 6d.
m
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR ••PLAIN HOME TALK."
Bt Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromes 400 Illustrations. 1248 Papes.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Hereare answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this preat work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
m- BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH. -ma
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc. Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, ’’is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is Sd. Camille 1 s
post. How to Vamp on Piano. Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Tiie White Slave Traffic, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Basj', Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations fcnd. portraits, Is j post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s GcL
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
tiie Score, & Other Verses, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan's Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes. 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only)
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GO I FROH THIS A DVT.
——4
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for i.'-e Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MuNEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Mark Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, 3
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Oti) Bush Songs, Is 2d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife's Jandbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s ou.
Aristotle, 3/6. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems, complete.
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of tiik
Ring, Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post.
Letter Writer, Is. All about Incubators, Is -<l
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to an
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted Tokology, 7s fid P o3 ' -
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chkvassk’s Advice to
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget so.no
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.
Bknnarr Macfadden’s Works, all at 5s poste •
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers anpsuga •
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbo ,
is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post, iw -”
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness
Its Curb, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large •’
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 lllus.Jea
eound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay’ » ®
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is -d. J'
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moores ,
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 P a ?® 3 ’
bound, 10s Od posted. The Secrets of Clairvoianib,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com
plete), Is 6d posted. Tub Agk of Reason, y <
posted. Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


Miss Liliah
Woodham,
Christchurch, N.Z.
(from a photo.
1
m
u;
mV,
w
Cured of
Eczema by
Rexona
The
Rapid
Healer.
THE MOTHER’S LETTER.
‘‘\ly little Kiri for a little over a year was troubled with a very severe
attack of Eczema in its most violent form, her head being one frightful
mass of painful ulcerations,” writes Mrs. R. Woodham, 11 Battersea
Street, Christchurch, N.Z. “Her hair came completely out with the
everlasting scratching and tearing, I not being able to he constantly near
her SK,e to Prevent it, and, not being able to obtain her proper rest and
sleep, she became a complete little nervous wreck. A little before her
eighth birthday, after trying almost everything advertised and recom-
mended, I was advised by a person who had been also afflicted with the
same painful complaint to try Rexona Ointment, and the effect was
magical and almost beyond belief. In a week she was hardly recognisable
as the same child, and in a very short time indeed was completely cured,
and all traces of the dreadful disease had disappeared. I shall always
consider it a duty and a pleasure to advise and recommend its use to
anyone similarly afflicted.”
REXONA —The Family Friend.
Rexona is a reliable remedy for all eruptions and irritations of the Skin
Lczema, 1 1 in pies. Sores, Chilblains, Chapped Hands, Sciatica, Cuts, Burns,
Bruises, Scads, Bad Legs, Stings of Insects, and all kinds of 1 nllammation
Rexona is sold in triangular pots at Is. Gd„ and in larger pots, eontaiuiug nearly
tour times the quantity, at 3s.
o
o
0
THE RAPID HEALER
'T'TTTC BEST STORIES written in Australia appear in Til E
1 LONE HAND each month. Pkice Sixpence.
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co, Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
fiOL LOW AY’S
Pills <a Ointment
A TRIAL of HOLLOWAY’S PILLS has meant
The Dawning Brighter Day
to many a sufferer from liver, kidney and stomach
troubles* For over three-score years and ten they
have been supreme in all cases of biliousness,
headache, indigestion, depression and other com-
plaints which usually arise from constipation*
You should also use HOLLOWAY'S OINT-
MENT, which possesses remarkable healing
virtues in cases of skin affections and sores,
rheumatism, lumbago* sciatica, etc* See to
it that you always have a box and pot handy*
To be obtained from all Chemists, Stores,
etc.
Manufactured only at
113 SOUTHWARK ST. (late 78 New Oxford St.), LONDON, S.E.
Father’s Birthday.
[For The Bulletin.]
empty suburban street was drows-
I ing happily in the morning sunlight
when a small girl in a state of fran-
tic excitement burst from the hall of a semi-
detached villa and rushed to the kerb. Ar-
rived there, she commenced to leap up and
down and clap an accompaniment, to a shrill
chant of her own : “My—father's—a—
scoundrel!” she screamed, over and over
ggain, with the greatest enthusiasm, despite
the fact that she had no visible audience.
Presently the deeper voice of an invisible
small boy disorganised her solo with a mock-
ing imitation in different words. “Mother's
—cu— lying — old — haggige /” howled the
enemy. Whereupon, Father’s rebellious
daughter gave a shrill scream of rage, aban-
doned her performance, and fled inside, pre-
sumably to assail Mother’s detractor. As
she disappeared an iron pot crashed through
the front window' and landed upside down
on the pocket edition lawn. Then the front
door slammed to at the push of an unseen
hand, aud the single-fronted villa resumed
its air of bricky reticence. The upturned
pot and the broken window alone remained
qs evidences of inward strife,
i Alice, the maid at Mrs. Tribbens’ board-
ing-house opposite, having observed the
alarms and excursions from the dining-room
window’, w r ent heavily upstairs in an indig-
nant frame of mind. Meeting Miss Gummer
on the landing, she let off a series of short,
passionate sentences: “Them Strabswoods ’as
been at it again. Mis’ Gummer. Figbtiu’
spmethink ’orrible —throwin’ pots through th’
front winder, an’ callin’ each other such
names! I know beeos them kids ’as been
yellin’ them iu th' street. Them kids makes
s'peshul ’ditions of themselves w'hen any-
thing goin’ w'roug. It’s their father’s birth-
day ter-morrer, an’ they was goin’ ter make
no end of a fuss. Now they’re fightin’, if
yer please ! Th’ p’leece orter stop it, I say !
Makes th’ street look low!” Without wait-
ing for an answer she continued morosely
on her way upstairs to spread the disgrace-
ful tidings and thoroughly shock the wliqle
house. That house had for one brief and
memorable period been the home of the pot-
throwers opposite.
The Tribbens household, which collectively
regarded the Strabswoods’ presence in the
street as an insult, received the news
eagerly, and, immediately after tea, manned
the side balcony and verandah in order to
fake observations of the enemy’s lines.
The Strabswoods, according to their usual
custom, must have effected a grand recon-
ciliation shortly after the unfortunate pot
episode, for that missile had vanished from
the lawn, and the house W’as decorously still.
But the smashed window was not so easily
effaced. Shortly after the Tribbens boarders
had paraded, the front door of the Strabs-
woods mansion was thrown open, and the
family of four, all dressed in their best,
emerged laden with toy flags, four Chinese
lanterns and a quantity of string.
Strabswood and his wife—a couple of the
“superior” type—glanced across at the
crow’ded house-front, made some withering
but inaudible remark, and then set to work
in the most affectionate manner to decorate
the one-eyed cottage, assisted by the children.
The first thing Strabswood did w r as to tack
a small cotton Union Jack on the frame of
the damaged window, thus demonstrating in
one hammering his loyalty to King and
Throne, and also his willingness to let by-
gone pots be bygones. Then the flags and
lanterns were festooned along the verandah,
and the family clung together 1 the pot-
dinted lawn and rapturously applauded its
own work. The children were now seething
with excitement —the small boy especially
being close up to bursting point. At last he
could contain his emotions no longer, but
dashed out the gate and buck-jumped down
the street till he was opposite the pyramid
of silent, staring lodgers.
“Father’s going to give me ten shillings to-
morrow !” he screamed. “He says I can
spend it just as I like, but I’m not to ask
any vulgar Australian boys to share it! He’s
going to make a speech too, my father is!
You see if he doesn’t!” Then the .delirious
courier rushed back, to be playfully rebuked
for his exuberance. Until he was ordered to
join the family inside, the younger Strabs-
wood continued to leap, and run, and cheer.
As a preliminary exhibition of gratitude for
ten shillings and a speech, it represented a
rare an unt of cheaply-purchased energy.
The Tri jens household resolved not to miss
the fun ,ion on any account.
Next evening, at seven o’clock, the house
of Strai swood, with its five lighted lanterns
glowing in a dancing line, presented a mod-
erately gorgeous spectacle. The son and heir,
in an Eton suit and broad white collar, was
evidently under orders not to leave the pre-
cincts of the house. He k£pt jumping on
and off the gate like a restless monkey, but
never once ventured outside. An eager knot
°f 15 boys hovered before the gate, as if
awaiting some promised boon. Presently
the Strabswood boy leaped on the gate and
roade frantic signs. The mob broke out into
shrill whistles and cheers, and only desisted
when Strabswood himself, in full evening
dress,, stood bowing and nervously twisting
U P his clipped moustache on the narrow
verandah. 11 is high, pallid forehead shone
m the superfluous lantern glow, and the sup-
posed diamond in his shirt-front sparkled
feebly. He looked at his immature audience
m a fatuously serious way and announced
with fervor, “First of all. char boys, we will
sin " ‘God Save the King’!”
At these solemn words, tlie piano within
became emphatically loyal, and the Anthem
shriek* mu m w . lld brays aud straggling
and thpn i cbeers naturally followed,
ticallv in'tim youa g er Strabswood fran-
siasm /hi ted f to , the suppliers of enthu-
Strahsw^a 16 i° r - tbe speech was at hand.
veraiS hav “S been joined on the
ing seen\hJm h !fi Wlfe and daughter, and hav-
advanwH p0 M ed c ° mf ortably in chairs,
“M v deA P S-Vu 1 aad cleared his throat:
Ditolu.H , h ? >ritl ®b boys, he began, in a high-
beha f d of mv « than - k y ° u very much on
enh*-.! my Sovereign for th^-er—the
enthusiasm—your enthusiasm—and—er your
for vnM j dear boys! 1 also thank you
sav " ?n F kindnes s—your kindness, that is to
me\ hTTh l^~ Com T i ng here to-night to wish
( C h L r b , ld o7~T I m T ean a happy birthday!
dear ,-^°' da y am years old, my
Sen horn l H? b ° ys! , (CheersA « I had
I wo.ua i three moutbs and four days earlier
P P !! W had the sam - e birthday as his
f /lTf a)eS D’ • (Great cheering.) Think
eheerin? l dea \ ntlsh boys ! (Tremendous
h„nnr « A d 1 trust I may be as
hannv a 3 you —No! that you may be as
W J ..“ 1 am > when you are 38! (Cheers.)
y’vr that you may love your King, as I do !
hov^ 6 M GerS '• >» Er —fbank you very much,
ion v,-ir° W ’ Sir lls son—“here is your
tern shillings—and may God bless you!”
tocene of unparalleled rejoicing.)
Young Strabswood gleefully received the
veasure before the greedy and expectant
ZL°V h i cheerers: but he immediately
dashed to the ground their hopes of enter-
tainment by wheeling round and excitedly
snouting, “I m not going to spend it! I’m
going to keep it till I’m a man like Father,
(yul Then 1 m going to ' honor me King with
This splendid impromptu was received by
the Home Government with applause, anil
by the (Jutlanders with stunned silence.
u . . last a small boy in front spoke out:
Ain t you goin’ ter buy nothin’ with it?”
(< „U’ I m not!” (Gasps of dismay.)
( Well, am t there no buns nor lollies?”
‘No! passionately shouted the heir.
The dazed mob took counsel. Then a
small, quavering voice said : “Keep yer
rotten munuey ! We don’t want it!”
The others took up the cry and repeated it
with insulting variations.
“Keep yer stinkin’ munney!”
“Oo wants yer rotten munney?”
'|Buy beer fer yer ole man with it!”
“Yer ole man’s a dirty pro-Boer!”
“Go an’ wash yer dirty neck!”
The angry chorus enraged Strabswood,
and he turned aud ordered them to disperse
instantly. They paid no attention to his
turious command, but continued to scream
insults and challenges until the whole street
had come out to see what the riot was about.
By that time, Strabswood had been reduced
to a state bordering on imbecility. In ths
midst of the noise, he could be heard bab-
bling of legal proceedings and sucli-like
futilities. Mrs. Strabswood, with her arm
wound round her daughter’s waist, was
standing at bay on the verandah, while hep
husband, closely attended by his son, raged
uselessly on the lawn. He had realised too
late that a shilling’s worth of stale buus
and lollies would have saved all the madden-'
ing disgrace, and that enthusiasm and pop?
ular. applause must be paid for in some
fashion. “Clear out of this !” he screeched,
for the fiftieth time, and struck over the
fence at the yelling pack he had just ad-
dressed so affectionately. “Go on, now!
Clear home, all of you !”
“Pro-Boer!” they hooted. “Yah! you
pro-Boer!”
“Get out, you ragamuffins, or I’ll call a
policeman!”
“Oh, yoif raiser!” chanted a furious fat
boy. “Never give us nothin’ fer cheerin'
yer!”
"Yon don't love yer King!” jeered
another.
“If yer loved yer King yer’d give us
somethin’ ter eat!”
“I don’t bleeve yer 38 at all !”
(“CLEAR OUT. WILL YOU!”)
“Chuck a rock at th’ dirty pro-Boer!”
Strabswood gave a hurried direction to
his son, and that youth fled inside and re-
turned at top speed with a walking stick.
A shout of rage went up to the sky, and a
clod whizzed over the fence and smote
Strabswood on the shirt-front. Another
knocked one of the lanterns sideways and
set it blazing. Strabswood threw open the
gate, and, followed desperately by his son,
charged the enemy, who turned and flew.
While the walking-stick was swiping at the
legs of one enemy, the younger Strabswood
rashly tried to assassinate the lumbering
fat bov by kicking him with his lightly-shod
feet. The fat boy, desperate with terror,
fell on his assailant and gave him a really
severe rolling-on. ere rising and stumbling
heavily into the gathering gloom. The small
boy whose legs had been rapped by Strabs-
wood ran howling in front of him, while
Strabswood picked up his blubbering son
and conveyed him back to the house of re-
joicing, where the smoking ruins of the
lantern swung forlornly on the charred
string.
There was a much-needed interval of
perhaps 15 minutes, before the tribe of boys
again invaded the street. They returned
confidently to the attack behind a small,
fussy and intensely indignant man, whose
marked resemblance to the boy who had
been rapped showed that he was his parent.
Still more ominous, he was, as the attendant
boys took care to inform the street, the
Strabswoods’ landlord coming to inquire:
(1) Why his son had been assaulted? (2)
Why his property had been damaged? (3)
When the rent was to be paid?
Strabswood was found in the garden, and,
being in the mood for publicity, his land-
lord bailed him up there, and, having plied
him with his three humiliating questions,
sternly refused him a hearing when he made
an attempt to answer them. The small
bodyguard, packed along the picket fence,
grew hilarious as the interview proceeded,
and hooted madly when the furiops tenant,
having refused to pay up there and then,
was loudly directed to quit on the morrow,
or take the legal consequences.
“Three groans for th’ dirty pro-Boer!”
howled the landlord’s son. as his triumphant
father walked off. They were given with
a will, and an extra one added by way of a
bonus. Then the stout boy, who was some-
thing of a depraved genius, shrieked: “Give
’im Gord Save th’ King!” It was duly
? j ron _ an d given with extraordinary vim.
not once, but over and over again, and
(Continued on next page.)


Hie Home First-Aid
ZAM-BUK HEALS ALL SORTS OF SORES I
AND SUPERFICIAL INJURIES.
Accidents will happen in the best-regulated
families, and the necessity of keeping a reliable
first-aid for home use cannot be too strongly
insisted upon.
Where a pot of Zam-Buk is kept on a handy shelf,
no member of the family is at a loss in emergency.
The breadwinner dresses his injuries with Zam-Buk,
and knows that its powerful antiseptic action will
clean out the wound, preventing suppuration or
poisoning. The housewife flies to the useful
little pot for her bruises, cuts and burns, and
the little ones cry out for Zam-Buk when they
fall, because they know it will soothe smart-
ing pain.
Zam-Buk is a powerful healing balm,
cleverly combined and concentrated, and
wonderfully refined. Many modern pre-
parations contain quantities of animal fats
and mineral poisons, and are not only irri-
tating and unreliable, but tend to create
the very complications which should be
guarded against.
The Zam-Buk way is both different and
superior. This natural healing balm takes
out the smart, and soothes the pain, reduces
the inflammation, and induces a clean healing
right away. It kills microbes, nullifies the
effects of dirt or poisonous substances, and
finally helps Nature to build up new tissue to
replace that which has been damaged or destroyed.
CONTAINS
NO ANIMALOIL ORfAT
ft*
■•• FOR
CUTS
ffiTCT BRUISES'
* SORES BURNS-/
-piles-pimples eczema-A/5#
'RHEUMATISM-SCIATICA-BAD
HEADS &BACKSCHAPPED HAND Si
CYCUST<f D rnZ* c »'CKErEQS,
FOOTBALL PLAYERS
EVERY HOME NEEDS ZAM-BUK.
A MOTHER S PRAISE for ZAM-BUK,
“We Have Never Known It Fail.”
Mrs. Crimmings, Forsyth and Penshurst Streets,
North Sydney, says:—“A tin of boiling water burst all
over the face and shoulders of my little boy, Joe.
One side of his face swelled out into an enormous
blister, which broke and left the surface in a raw
state. We dressed the injury with Zam-Buk,
which healed his face in a week or two.
“Again, this boy cut his leg severely with a
piece of broken bottle. Zam-Buk once more
came to the rescue, and quickly healed the injury.
“My little girl, Kathleen, had an eruption
of sores on her head. She lost most of her
hair. Commencing with Zam-Buk the sores
gradually disappeared until her scalp
was clean and healthy again.
“We have used Zam-Buk on
many occasions, and never known
it fail.”
Zam-Buk, the ever-ready healing-
balm, is unsurpassed for eczema,
ringworm, bad legs, festering
wounds, piles, as well as a quick
healer of cuts, burns, gashes and
all skin injuries. Sold by all
stores and chemists, at Is. 6d.,
and 3s. 6d. per large pot
u ie»
getting
better l
Colic, Diarrhoea and Dysentery
Are diseases that require immediate attention. In almost every neighbourhood
someone has died from these diseases before medicine could be procured or a
physician summoned.
Those who rely upon physicians often find that they are away from home when
most needed.
Every family, and especially those who reside in the back blocks, should keep
at hand a bottle of Chamberlain’s Colic & Diarrhoea Remedy.
No physician can prescribe a better medicine for the purpose for which it is
intended. It is invaluable for both children and adults.
?
&
&
V®
IS
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy will
at once relieve the cough, ease the
pain, and remove the difficulty in
breathing and produce a free and
easy expectoration. Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy strengthens the
throat, thus making it less susceptible
to sudden change of atmosphere.
|g|
COUGH REMEDY.
shrieks, hoots and cat-calls were introduced
to give variety. At last, the distracted
loyalist rushed tumultuously from his illu-
minated but unpaid-for house with the evi-
dent intention of stopping the demonstration
by murder. The singers suddenly scattered
like birds before him, and. after running
hard and uselessly up an avenue of mali-
cious laughter, he was fain to return to his
expiring leasehold and furiously box the
ears of his wretched son for encouraging
villainous street boys to hang about, and so
bringing derision on the house.
The surviving lanterns were then plucked
down, and the vicious slam of the front
door cut off the desolate howls of the vic-
tim. Father’s birthday was over.
KODAK.
Loans and Stones.
A DRAMA IN TWO THUDS.
[For The Bulletin.]
The Treasurer (Mr. Cann), who returned yester-
day from a visit to the South Coast, stated that
there are from 1,000,000 to 1,300,000 tons of stone
in sight at the Government quarries at Kiama. “It
is quite true,” Mr. Cann continued, “that as far as
the old quarry at Kiama is concerned no stone is
being quarried there now. The reason is that better
stone is being obtained from the workings on the
opposite side of the road which are part of the same
quarry. The 1,000,000 or 1,300,000 tons I have
mentioned will last for a day or two yet, apart
from the new workings which the Government has
opened.
The Treasurer (Mr. Cann) stated yesterday that
before members dispersed for the election campaign
he would have to put through a special loan bill
approximating £3,000,000 for railway construction.
This, he said would be apart from the loan expendi-
ture outlined last week in supply.—S. M. Herald.
Tiiup The First,
j time: Between this and the Next.
Place: Anywhere handy.
Persons: Cann, a Treasurer; Jugg, a Sur-
veyor.
Chorus (con spirito):
How beamingly and beautifully blue
Is the glad September sea;
How astonishingly shiny is the sun along
the briny—
Whatever can the reason be?
Antiphonal Chorus :
Oh. the reason’s very, very plain to see!
The illimitable azure shows its_ man
In a manner quite benumbing—tis in honor
of the coming
To Kiama of the optimistic Cann !
Chorus (inquiringly): Cann?
Antiphonal Chorus (decisively): Cann!
He’s the man —
He’s the smilingest from Beersheeba to Dan.
While Kiama still is haunted
By a Ghost, he stands undaunted —
See! he cometh with a comrade and a Plan !
(Enter Cann and Jugg.)
Jugg :
The quarry should be hereabouts, my
lord !
Cann :
Should be? I like it not that “should
be.” Ah!
The Plan says (consults Plan) Emm! —
the Plan says this is IT;
This cliff that faces East, and Nor’ by
East
Three points; and to the South-West a
new road —
Well, there’s the road! (points)
Jugg (eagerly): Yes! that’s the road, my
lord ;
We must be off it —Yes! I see the hole—
The blue-stone hole, my lord; I see it
now.
Cann (consulting plan):
“A million tons of loans.” Good! Very
good—
A noble find —a million tons of loans.
Jugg :
Pardon, my lord, a million tons of stones:
Cann :
Eh? Yes —of course, of course! Careless
of me!
Stones — loans — stones —loans —the words
run in my brain
Like some poor poet’s rhyme. I should
say stones ;
But, tell me, Jugg, who cast up the ac-
compt V
Who estimated, measured, reckoned out
This noble sum —a million tons of (er)
stones?
Jugg :
An’t please your lordship, our Department
did ;
Our Public Works Department sent one
here,
Who came, and saw, and said, “A million
tons”
And wrote it in his book and went his
way.
Anon the great Mac Griffin sent for him,
His prescience to try out —and said to
him :
“Thou’rt a base and pessimistic fellow!
Here thou sett’st down but one poor mil-
lion tons —
Darest look me in the eye and let it go?
Write, fellow, thirteen hundred thousand
tons /”
And sq he wrote, my lord.
Cann :
T see—l see ;
Then call it thirteen hundred thousand
tons.
If Arthur, our great Knight of Estimate.
The star of Fourpercent. from Slump to
Boom,
Reckons it up to that, why—make it so !
Is that the whole? (Gazing at it.)
Jugg :
It is the hole, my lord,
And, as you see., a right assuring hole
Whereout have come great expectations
And still containing
Cann :
Say two million tons!
And now away, to so acquaint the public—
But what’s this other hole that stands out
yonder?
Another quarry? or some black man’s
cave ?
Jugg :
It is the old Kiama quarry, my lord —
Haunted, they say; a vast and fearful
hole!
No stone comes from it now—the Ghost
that haunts it
Is crippled—bedridden—and cannot walk,
But howls and moans inside as one in
pain ;
Old loans in torment utter just such
groans.
Cann :
Horrible! O ye gods and little fishes!
A Ghost that cannot walk —Oh, horrible!
Let us away—l shudder —Come ! Away !
(Exeunt.)
Chorus (trippingly):
Blue is the quarry, blue is the sea;
Blue is the sky o’er you and me;
Blue is the outlook, South and North,
Blue was the Plan that Cann drew forth ;
Blue is the hole that gapes so wide ;
Blue is the Ghost that howls inside ;
Blewed is the Cash that the State ran
through,
But still remaineth the IOU —
Nothing is lasting, nothing true.
But the firmament —and the azure hue —-
The deep, deep blue of the IOU!
Antiphonal Chorus (with conviction):
Yet there endureth for a span
The faith of the Optimistic Cann!
Thud the Second.
Time: To pay up.
Place: Of perks.
Persons: Several ephemeral; all irrespon-
sible.
(Enter the MacGriffin —Trumpets and red
fire.)
The Mac Griffin :
To _ owe, or not to owe —What a sugges-
tion —
Not to owe! Not to live were called in
question !
For while I live I’ll owe, as some one
said it —
An Altruist, I swell my neighbor’s credit —
Raise loans by stealth, and blush to find
folk knowin’—
Oh, my percented soul, my Uncle Cohen !
Will he, too, turn a deaf ear to my sorrow’?
By Jove! I’ll try another scheme to-
morrow ;
I must have fifty millions. How to get
them?
The brokers deprecate advances —let them !
I think I see a way out of my worries—
Bricks? Timber? Joinery? I have it —
Quarries !
Come, come! they can’t refuse them as
security,
They’ll give us a half-Nelson on Futurity!
By Lombardy! it is a glorious plan—-
I’ll talk it over now with Brother Cann.
Ah ! here he comes —Good day !
(Enter Cann.)
Cann :
All hail, Mac Griffin !
Mac Griffin :
Well met; three minutes chat, and then to
tiffin.
About those quarries, Cann?
Cann :
Well, what about them?
Mac Griffin :
I’m selling ’em. We’ll try to do without
them.
Cann :
Well, I am glad to hear you talking like
that! I’ve just come back from Kiama
—you know —and Jugg, of the Public
Works Department, told me you esti-
mated 1,300,000 tons of blue stone
Mac Griffin :
What? Only 1,300,000 tons? Nonsense!
Jugg’s all wrong. I said thirteen mil-
lion tons —in fact, if I were to have
another look and re-estimate, I believe
I should find about 130,000,000 tons!
Those blue-stone quarries are dreadfullv
deceptive. Say 130,000,000 tons at 10s.
per ton —that’s £65.000,000. See?
Cann :
Certainly. I'll see anything you say.
Mac Griffin (joyfully):
Good! Well, how do we stand?
Cann :
Debt, £107,000.000; loan account over-
drawn, £2,700,000; loans authorised.
£3.000.000; Norton-Griffiths proposal,
£3,000,000; special loan bill.
£3,000,000
Mac Griffin (impatiently):
Oh, come to the total! Never mind little
niggling details.
Cann :
Well — ei um —our total commitments
would be £116,000,000 up to the end of
the year.
Mac Griffin :
Pooh ! We must have a few millions, at
once; otherwise, we shall not be able
to carry on up to the Elections.
Cann :
I cabled yesterday for £3,000,000 at any
price under 5 per cent., to go to the ad-
vance account
Mac Griffin :
Three millions! Ha, ha!
Cann :
I ought to have a reply by now, but
Mac Griffin :
There’s a wire for you on my table now;
it came half an hour ago. (Searches.)
Here !
Cann (opening cable):
M—m —m —m. Eh? What’s this?—
Look !
[the cable.]
Lombard St., London.
Can n —Treasurer —Sydney.
Cable received. Uncle dropped dead
heart-disease on reading request.
Holding you morally responsible for
death.
Sol Bull-Cohen.
Collect.
Mac Griffin (solemnly):
The only thing to stop us. My God!
WTiat luck !
( Curtain.)
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.


WESTINGHOUSE
c-.se, CHAIN DRIVES
For heavy machine tool
WORK, and for every type
of high-speed power trans-
mission, WESTING HOUSE (Morse
CHAIN DRIVES are pre-eminent
because of their patented feature,
The Rocker Joint,
which eliminates sliding friction
at the joint and the consequent
loss of power.
Full Particulars from
Co.
WEST. N.S. WALES. ’
Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
New Zealand Agents— Philips & Pike, Wellington.
FOR
High Efficiency
AND
Perfect Safety.
We carry Boilers in Stock for Immediate
Delivery, and Quote for Erection
and Brickwork.
We are Sole Agents, and Contract for
Complete Power Plants with Guar-
anteed Results.
NichoJs Boiler Feed Pumps, Bolinder Woodworking Machinery,
Dewrance Steam Valves.
Write us for our Complete Catalogue of Engineers’ Supplies.
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd..
189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Where is the Car to Equal
The METZ “22” at £185?
eIon e mnv S ci h iM ar THn a k y «f PI Jh e tha - cai ? do neariy as well? Think of the
economy of it! think of the saving in cost of running! Think of the
running a car that leaves your mind free to enjoy the pleasure
withoiu bothering about ‘mileage cost and upkeep.”
Its simplicity captivates everyone who knows anything about thoroughbred
mdte r ; C nLi°? StrUC en 0n - - U Ce ? ta i nly will appeal to you from considerations
thal er f ™ m the ,P rice - It is stylish, comfortable and durable—a car
that delivers the maximum of economy and efficiency.
Investigate. Get the facts, so that you may compare it with cars costing
IS SpSe”" De ‘ ailS ° D req " eSt ' a ” d «■“ *4> *» Provfit °°pS
BROWN 8 HELLICAR LTD.,
375 KENT STREET (Between King
and Market Streets), SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 4352.
METZ CARS,
WAVERLEY CARS,
INDIAN MOTOCYCLES.
OLD
ELDS DIAMOND DRILLING CO.Pty.Ltd.
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
South Melbourne.
RUMELY KEROSENE
OIL TRACTORS.
ALL-STEEL BORING PLANTS,
TOOLS AND CASING.
Gasoline and Kerosene Engines,
Pumps, Windmills, Silos, Hay
Presses, Wagons, etc., etc.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Armstrong Traction Well-Boring Machine
MOVES WITHOUT HORSES
SUFFERERS from that cruel, stubborn, nerve-
racking, skin disease, ECZEMA need no
s ,, terrible , P™SS with doubts or misgivfngg
JK
of all. _ The inventors are Chemists widf depute'
practising in your midst. They use “T«ri”
treating patients. Write them at on V ln
samnle of “ISO,” enclosing three benny LL
partly cover postage and packing. Thefr addmis in-
J. S. BLACK & SONS, 8 18 •
Smith Street, Coll’ingwood, Vic.
• •
Salts
Now aofd by Chemists throughout the Commonwealth.
Wholesale importers:
H. & W. GREAR, 287, Jlarenoe Street, SYDNEY.
THE LONE HAND
A Monthly Guide for everything
Australian.
6d
A FRIEND IN DEED 15 A FRIEND INDEED.
VV§
7
V
&
X
\
§0
X
*«
X
■ XS-
Beecham's Puts
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
. . . AT . . .
THE BANKING HOUSE, 228 Pitt Street,
Opposite PALACE THEATRE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LENDS MONEY ON ALL SECURITIES, including Furniture,
FROM 10 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
. FRED. McWILLIAM, Manager
m
20th Century Band Saw.
KIRCHNERS
Woodworking Machines
are giving satisfaction.
Write for Catalogue and Information
direct to the
MANUFACTURERS—
KIRCHNER & CO.,
32 Market Street, SYDNEY
Automatic
Knife Grinding
Machine.
You Gould Make Biz Hum
If You Had the Right Tools
A good workman never quarrels with his tools. No, that’s a waste of
g®* ge sjmply does the natural thing and installs better tools—the
kind that will do the best work, get the most out of the day, and send up
tkebank balance. Ihe world moves these days, and the Woodworker simply
MUh-T be efficiently equipped to stand the strain of competition. If
you feel the mill, ask our expert to explain why our machines will be a
help to you. That costs nothing, and will lead to something.
OUR WOOD-WORKING SPECIALTIES.
PANEL PLANERS.
3 & 4 CUTTER PLANERS
SPINDLE MOULDERS
CHAIN MORTISERS
TENONING MACHINES
SANDERS
WOOD-BENDING MACHINES
sawing MACHINES
TWO-SIDE FELLOE PLANING MACHINES
SPOKE AND HANDLE LATHES
DOVE-TAILERS
AUTOMATIC HUB TURNING MA
Cash
T. M. GOODALL & GO., LTD.
(Universal Machinery Merchants), *
303-5 Kent Street, SYDNEY
Telephones: City 6427-8.


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Fire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write tor our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MACK LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office : 19 Queen Street.
Vf ATCHING COLORS BY
14 ARTIFICIAL LIGHT.
By our new system colors of delicate fabrics can be matched
accurately by Electric Eight. No other lighting method allows this.
Also, the cost of lighting by this method is much below that by any
other.
SEND FOR OUR PAMPHLET ON THIS SUBJECT.
OF AUSTRALIA Ltd*
MELBOURNE: 33 wit
’Phone-City Si 17.
*
SYDNEY: Wynyard Lane.
’Phone—City 3520.
BRISBANE: Roma St.
’Phone—Cent 3676..
It is the
Your Belt
Transmits
that
Counts.
93a
55
rjjgEgKagj
Sure
an
Specify
DICK’S
BELTING
Sole Agents—
'
Jas. Hardie 8 Co.
Circular Quay,
SYDNEY.
And MELBOURNE.
THE
w:
a
*
s
D ALGETY,* C 9 L.TD
—^AGEHTS.^*-
•XJTDmj
Sf /£
ani»v>
DALGETY £ COMPANY LIMITED,
Machinery Merchants —Miller’s Point, SYDNEY, and aii Branches.
Vf
m
i
Tangye Kerosene Oil Engine
AGENCIES -
Tangyes, Limited, Birmingham.
Clayton & Shuttleworth, Ltd., Lincoln.
Wolseley Sheep Shearing Machine Co., Ltd., Birmingham.
Gane Milking Machine Co., Ltd.
Nicholson & Moirow —G. Munro Propty., Limited.
-v.: .
HUGE STOCKS Carried of the following Jincs-
Kerosene Oil and Benzine Engines.
Steam Engines and Boilers.
Steam and Belt-driven Pumps. All
Sizes. >
Suetion (ias Producer Plants.
Winches. Chain Blocks, .lacks, etc.
Portable Steam and Traction Engines.
Sheep Shearing Machines.
Cream Separators.
Milkin<> Machines.
Agricultural Implements & Machinery.
Chalfcutters and Sawbenches,
Etc. etc. etc. .
TO REMEMBER! :
We Carry Spare Parts lor Ali Machines.
hM
combine, in an ideal manner, all the advantages of
a wide range of speeds, feeds, great driving power,
and convenience in operating, with a design that
is extremely simple, substantial and rigid. The
construction of these tools embodies every feature
which recent developments in maohine-shop prac-
tice have shown to be essential to the rapid and
accurate production of drilling and tapping work.
We are Agents for American Tool Works Com-
pany, and have in stock —
RADIAL DRILLS,
SHAPERS,
PLANERS, etc.
If you are interested in modern Machinery,
call or write us for information and prices.
& COMPANY
74 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
i!
wl
ills
ms'.
13mm
: \
AT
ENGINES
For RESIDAL OIL or any
grade of Common
Paraffin.
Suitable for both
MARINE and
STATIONARY PURPOSES.
WARBURTON, FRANK I LTD.,
NEWCASTLE. 307-311 Kent Street, SYDNEY. MELBOURNE.
CUTTERS, Set. EACH.
COMBS, 2 /- EACH.
'isfeti
COMBS
anp
CUTTERS
wm
1
SUNSHINE ENGINES
for driving CHaffc utters, Saw Benches, Pumps, Dynamos, Graders, Hoists, Mortar Mills, etc.
H. V. McKAY, Sunshine , I fie. Adelaide Brisbane— Sydney— Melbourne.
FAIRBANKS-MORSE VERTICAL
Geared Kerosene Hoisting Engine.
" • 8
The main parts of the engine are enclosed in a dustproof crank case. This keeps them free
from dust and grit, and protects them from undue wear. Inside the crank case is l a bath of
lubricating oil. The main parts are in this way self-lubricating.
Consumption of Kerosene, about one-eighth of a gallon per H.P. per hour.
STOCK HELD BY AGENTS:
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Sydney & Melbourne
