

DEWAR’S THE GENIAL SPIRIT.
R. a. WATKINS & CO.
Machinery Merchants,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR— . .
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
IT IS NOT COMPULSORY
but it is wise, if an advance of money is required, to go to
The IM.S.W. Mont de Piete D. & I. Co. Ltd.
74 Castkreagh St„ Sydivey 74.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
169 George Street West, Sydney.
39 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT,
General Mai
Money Advanced upon AH Classes of Security at Lowest Rates of Interest.
EEE
m
&
mm
Doctors Recommend
GILBEY’S DRY GIN
ECOBA.RX.
Hadley s Orient fiotel.
piONEE
LEATHER BELTING
Guaranteed
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
*
•t
Take it bach..
1 must have-
Pine-Apple Brand
t
CHUBB’S
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
32
for
preparing a variety of the most
dainty Desserts with
J
HA N S E N’S
unhet
TABLETS
will be forwarded, Post Free to Any
Address, on application to
T. 8., Box 577, G.P.0., Sydney.
PALMER CORD
are specially constructed to ensure Long Service.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO.,
SYDNEY—MELBOURNE—NEWCASTLE
sfgh
•1 U t
Royal
Dutch
COCOA
SUPERIOR
EVERY WAY.
P B
PAINTS
Do you use ’em?
We make paints for Specific Uses, such as for painting smelter or chlorination
works, or any metal surfaces that need protection from fumes and water; insu-
lating paints for coating wires, instruments, machinery and appliances for the
general insulation of electrical currents, etc.; Damp Proof Paints for coating
brick, stone or concrete; Pabco s/s Red for painting structural iron, steel and
wood. May we send you a booklet about our paints and what they're made for ?
The Paraffine Paint Co.,
D S. EVANS,
Australasian Manager,
Challis House, Sydney
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
B.L.
GOLD SEAL
WHITE SEAL s v o
Extra
Special
jMat-Virlue
MACHINERY MERCHANTS.
i 352 Kent Street (Near Kings?)Sydney, n.sw
The engine that touches your cheque book
least and your HEART most is a good engine to
have.
That’s the “Blackstone” every time.
Make its acquaintance. Write for Catalogue
“O.B.”
A
A
HELIDON SPA
A French savant says that the great value of a mineral water lies STARKEYS LTD., Agents ,
in what it deports rather than in what it imports into the system, phuhp st., Sydney f and Redfern
The Bulletin
Tel. 34.—N0. 1739.]
[Thursday, June 12, 1913,
■Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


GREAT BOOR SALE.
BARGAINS IN BOOKS—THOUSANDS OF BOOKS IN ALL BRANCHES OF LITERATURE, AT
GREATLY REDUCED PRICES.
4000 38. 6d. CLOTH-BOUND NOVELS OFFERED at Is. 6d. and Is, EACH.
Our 64-PAGE SALE CATALOGUE IS NOW READY, and will be sent Post Free to any address.
WRITE FOR A COPY TO-DAY.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP., LTD., 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Hudson’s EUMENTHOL Tooth
Powder
SECURES SOUND
WHITE TEETH.
This Powder is not only an Antiseptic and
Germicide, but cleanses mechanically, owing
to the evolution of free active oxygen when
the powder is in contact with water or the
oral fluids. It is the oxygen which, by neu-
tralising the acid-producing organisms of de-
cay, and dissolving mischievous deposits,
whitens the teeth so wonderfully, and wards
off decay as no other preparation, for the
Teeth can or will do. Scientists agree that
a powder is superior to any liquid or paste
for cleansing and preserving the Teeth. The
Committee of the British Dental Association
recommend powder as best for the Teeth.
Sold by all Chemists in our patent stopper metal bottles, handy for
travel or home, price 116, forwarded free on receipt of stamps.
Hudson’s Eumenthol Chemical Co. Ltd., 19 York st., Sydney.
Forwarded Free, our New Book containing valuable information
11 regarding the Teeth.
iHOVV TO USE THE POWDER-i
CSC
St
The Red Page
Albert the Wowser
The inevitable historical result of the
excessive adulation bestowed by official
biographers upon Victoria the Gracious and
Albert the Good has come. In The Married
Life of Queen Victoria (Bell, per Sydney
Book Club), Clare Jerrold strips the halo
from the two royal heads, and shows us
human beings instead of saints. The author
hits hard, but to demolish the enormous
muck-heap of hyperbole it is necessary to use
a steam shovel. And the Albert memorial,
sentimentally built by his widow to perpet-
uate the sainthood of the Prince Con-
sort, comes toppling down. Unfortunately
the actual Memorial in Kensington still
stands in all its tasteless tinsel. Time has
not softened its garishness: like a painted
mummy, it refuses to grow old.
The life of the Prince Consort in England
was, on one side of it, a long attempt to
put back the hands of the clock and rein-
state authority which had already been dele-
gated to Parliament. Had the Prince lived
long, the history of England would have
been very different from what it is, for
either our Parliament would have suc-
cumbed to his ideals, and England would
have become reactionary, or the struggle
between the people and the Crown would
have ended in the abolition of the Mon-
archy ; and it is not difficult to believe which
part the English people would have chosen
in the critical time of 30 and 40 years ago.
Furthermore, had the Prince lived, there
would have been no “great” Queen Vic-
toria. for by 1860 the Queen had so entirely
transferred all work to her husband
that, excepting as an appearance and a sig-
nature, the Queen-Regnant may almost be
said not to have existed —a state of things
which would eventually have had to be
acknowledged; it would have been upon
that point that an English revolution would
have occurred.
And of Albert only two “Lives” have been
written, both by command of the Queen, and
to both of which she supplied all personal
matter. It is evident that the late Victoria
had no hand in the compilation of the pre-
sent “Life.” Hitherto we have had, of the
22 years of married life, merely the official
and censored report, all built around this
vainglorious boast of Victoria: “I will ven-
ture to say that not only no Royal manage
is to be found equal to ours, but no
other manage is to be compared with ours.”
Why is it, Clare Jerrold asks, that Edward
was nearly all his life more popular than
his father? And she gives the well-known
evidences that prove Edward to have been
no saint. But Albert neither philandered,
gambled, nor played cards. He was a
German Coburg of 21 when he married Vic-
toria. And, called from his little dukedom
to his responsible position in England, this
cold, complacent young man immediately “set
himself to allay the hydra-headed dragon of
licentiousness.”
No one would have objected to this if he
had thought more of the people to be saved
and less about their sins, but he showed little
real consideration for those people; his ac-
tions rather betrayed that he was intent upon
proving in his own person the crude fact
that it was possible to live without sin, and
that he would have nothing to do with sin-
ners If he could only have lost his self-
consciousness, have been gracious and
friendly.... he and the Queen would prob-
ably have heard nothing of the occasional
paroxysms of anger which swept the public
mind like a fury at the mention of his
name.
The evidences are all there. The deduc-
tion is plain. Albert was a Wowser —the
first Wowser in history.
Albert had a difficult job. The young
people had married practically without any
previous knowledge of each other’s disposi-
tion. Albert liked to go to bed at nine;
Victoria made him stand about and be
polite till one or two in the morning. There
were quarrels, during one of which Victoria
locked her husband in his room, and another
in which the wife flunj* the contents of a
cup into her husband’s face. The Prince
merely rose to change his clothes. But soon
Albert took drastic steps to prevent any
news of their domestic life filtering out.
Probably their married life was like any
other married life, with its average share of
joys and quarrels. But his position as drone
in the Royal hive must have caused trouble
between tLj Prince Consort and the hus-
band. Yet, in spite of this added diffi-
culty, the Royal pair chose deliberately to
pose as married saints.
Albert was much greater than the Queen
in character. He possessed the strength of
the Christian virtues; he could suffer and
be kind; he could work cheerfully and give
all the credit of his labor to his wife; he
was thoroughly unselfish, and had firmness,
strength and intellect. Yet he remains a
shadow in the train of Victoria... .The
Queen boasted that to the end of his life he
would come whenever she called, no matter
what his occupation; and she showed not
the slightest consciousness that she was
exacting, and imposed a great strain upon
him; she only told herself —and others —
how strong was his love for her.
In the education of his children Albert
the Wowser proceeded on highly moral lines.
In those days me power of suggestion
was not recognised; it was not realised that
an insistence upon purity would at once
start a consideration of impurity; and be-
fore he died the Prince had to garner some
of the harvest of the earl.v educational mis-
takes in the ready way in which his eldest
son took Venus for his guide, philosopher
and friend by the time he was 20.
&
Though Albert had practically no status
in England for the greater part of his
married life —while on the Continent with
his wife he was but the second son of a
Coburg Duke, and had to yield precedence
to German sovereigns—gradually, as hus-
band, he absorbed into his own hands all
the political work of the sovereign; and,
though the Queen on occasions copied out
despatches, her hands were full with the
claims of her frequent motherhood.
It would be interesting to see him as he
really was, not as the Queen saw r him, or as
she wished us to see him, but shorn of his
fictitious attributes, so zealously worked up
after his death. A real man, thoughtful,
enlightened, prejudiced, intellectual, yet
conceited, warm-hearted, hard, custom-
bound, weary of the little things with which
his sentimental Queen choked his days, ten-
acious of power, yet self-sacrificing and
willing to hide his light under a bushel;
strong in uprightness, yet quite capable of
uttering a swear-word ; a dilettante, an ex-
perimenter, a practical theorist who for his
health’s sake should never have been thrust
into politics. Great as he was, he would
have been greater and lived longer had he
escaped being coached, clipped, and artifici-
ally forced by his German mentor, and if the
clinging ivy which lived upon his strength
had been a plant of hardier growth, ready to
support as well as to lean upon him... .The
lasting work of the Prince Consort was not
that upon which he had expended his energies
and his life, for he did not increase the
Monarchial power in England; it was the
pulling of the Crown permanently out of
the Georgian mud, and proving that those
in high places could be virtuous and intel-
lectual.
This was Albert, sincere, meek, the mere
husband of a Queen, hated by the English
as an ambitious German, feared for his am-
bition to dominate the Crown, reviled and
lampooned by the English press, laughed at
by the English public. And all because
Albert the Good was Albert the Wowser.
J*
This entertaining book affords us curious
glimpses into the life of the times, and suc-
ceeds in making Victoria more human tha#
queenly. (Victoria, it may be mentioned,
is still regarded by Imperialists of the
brucesmithempireday type as the highest
type of human womanhood.) The Queen’s
taste in dress and art was awful —she
redecorated Buckingham Palace with sham
marble columns, mirrors and shrieking
primary colors, and dressed hideously—but
these were the faults of her generation. But
her attempt to ward off the famine, result-
ing from the failure of the potato crop in
Ireland and its partial failure in Great
Britain, was supremely foolish. She an-
nounced a day for a general fast; and in
making that announcement the Court Cir-
cular naively remarked: —
At the Court at Osborne House, present
the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty in
Council, March 24 was appointed for a
General Fast. A splendid entertainment
was served up after the Council to the
Ministers, Nobles and Bishops who at-
tended.
The Bishops had their feed, and on the
fast day, owing to the closing of all shops,
all the employees not only went fasting but
lost their day’s pay. Victoria liked animals,
went frequently to see performing lions, got
Landseer to paint them, and was enchanted
with a dwarf named Tom Thumb, loading
the freak with costly gifts. She entertained
the Ojibbeway Indians with wonder and de-
light, and welcomed at Osborne a Chow and
his two wives.
Some laughed at the taste in amusements
shown by th 6 Royal pair, and some grieved,
for the theatres began to be neglected. The
Prince could not keep awake through the
late performance, and when he did go out
he preferred music; so for years they went
very occasionally to the German or Italian
opera or the French play, but scarcely ever
to the English drama. English singers and
English actors gradually fell out of the
ranks, and_ some of the theatres were shut
or turned into wild-beast shows.
But outspoken public comment taught
Victoria better, and in her later years she
even liked Shakspeare, though when sub-
scriptions were being got up to buy
Shakspeare’s house at Stratford for the
nation, she and the Prince were with diffi-
culty persuaded to give £250.
When during the Crimean war the Vic-
toria Cross was struck, the Queen publicly
pinned the new order on the breasts of 62
heroes. She describes the affair thus:—
From the highest Prince of the Blood to
the lowest private all received the same dis-
tinction, and the roughest hand of the brave
and honest private soldier came for the first
time in contact with that of their Sovereign
and Queen! Noble fellows! I own I feel
as if they were my own children; my heart
beat for them as for my nearest and
dearest. Thqy were so touched, so pleased;
many, I hear, cried.
These were the Words of a woman of 36;
and Clare Jerrold reminds us of Aberdeen’s
remark: “The Queen entered into the war
with horror; she soon got to like it very
much.”
The question arises: How did Glare
Jerrold get such full details of the life of
Victoria and her Albert as are given, for
example, in the account of the long feud
between a Windsor journalist, who spoke
too openly of Court doings, and the Royal
pair? The answer is the astonishing
frankness of the Victorian press. As a
necessary result of the official adulation of
the sovereign the unofficial press made free
use of ridicule. Such journals as Punch,
Judy, The Times, spoke with a freedom of
criticism that is not to be found in any
modern journal in its mention of George and
Mary. This right of criticism of the Crown
seems to have survived in only one modern
paper, the name of which we refrain, from
motives of modesty, from mentioning.
Punch and other journals used ridicule,
blame, and satire to keep their monarch in
order, while the heroic Windsor journalist,
Jasper Tomsett Judge, never ceased to
“show up” the petty tyranny of the Consort
until that gentleman ruined him with an
utterly inequitable law-suit. Albert had
offered him ,money to leave Windsor, and
that failing, attempted to buy up Judges’
debts. And he certainly was to the Prince
an annoying wasp. He published books with
titles such as Court Jobbery, Sketches of
Her Majesty's Household, etc., that showed
an altogether too intimate and too well-
informed knowledge of the Castle life. But
in the end the Prince cruelly broke the
journalist.
A most entertaining book, which will send
Albert the Prince Consort, good man as he
was, down through history with a new title.
The latest Macmillan sevenpennies in-
clude The Virginian (Wister), The Philan-
derers (Mason), and Richard Carvel (Win-
ston Churchill).
The Literature of the Bush
The literary taste of Bushland is about
as capricious as the whim of the young lady
who ring-fences her nether limbs with a
crinoline to-day and to-morrow tethers them
with a hobble skirt. When I first encoun-
tered Bill Bushman he was a thinker and
a reader of solid intellectual works (hot
from the press preferred) The Conflicts of
Science and Religion, Buckle’s History of
Civilization, Das Kapital, Looking Back-
ward, Gcesar's Column and Progress and
Poverty would generally be found in every
Bush humpy. I have refused an offer of a
pound for a two-bob copy of Max Nordau’s
Conventional Lies of Our Civilization at a
time when a good horse saddle and bridle
could be purchased for that sum. The
Bulletin was B. B.’s Bible, and he would
do a silent 20-mile ride weekly for that pink
Abomination. Then Lawson, “Banjo” and
Dyson sprang up; and he became trans-
formed from a moody thinker into a belli-
cose reciter of The Man from Snowy
River, Trooper Campbell and so forth. Sud-
denly and without any visible signs of in-
sanity, he developed a mania for the light,
breezy, sensational literature of the Dead-
wood Dick persuasion, which he consumed
for breakfast, dinner and tea. Under the
Deadwood influence he hailed the passing
wayfarer as “Pard,” and talked wildly of
“getting the drop” on the obese representa-
tive of Vested Interests collecting his un-
earned increment of a Monday morning. The
Deadwood Dick delirium paved the way for
a still lower depth of mental prostration,
and we find Bill eventually landed among
the worshippers of Nat Tripe, alias Gould.
Offer the Bushman of to-day his choice of,
say, The Boy in Green and The Cloister and
the Hearth, and he will go bald-headed for
the former. Gould is of Australian writers
the best seller. “Steele Rudd” second.
Dyson is the best bookweaver Australia has
produced. One does Gould an honor in com-
paring him with Dyson. The latter’s writ-
ings are more racy (not more horsey) than
Gould’s, and more spontaneously humorous
than Rudd’s. And he is considerably more
intellectual and versatile than Davis and
Gould rolled into one. Yet in the Bush
one rarely meets a Dyson book. A good
seller, he finds his audience in the towns
and cities where the booklover abides and
where frequently the circulating library dis-
plays a catalogue of works best and new as
well as choice and old. I admit that I have
reluctantly come to the opinion that Bill
Bushman of to-day is a literary degenerate.
Half an hour’s analysis of a Gould hero,
and a five minutes’ survey of the Arrow or
the Hawklet, and you can 1 put the plumbob
on his mental calibre straight away. He is
a different personality altogether to the
Bushman of yore. And, his blatant-voiced
Unionism notwithstanding, would he if
called on to-day put up the fight that the
silent saturnine Democrats of the nineties
did on behalf of a fair day’s wage for a
fair day’s work. I don’t think.
JACK HARDGRAFT.
Assorted Shrines
“Fontaine”: —
What’s the matter with Warrnambool, where T p
Archibald spent his boyhood? It was on the wi
of the Hopkins that he was initiated into the mt
tery of smoking plug tobacco by the big boy 0 f
school, now acting-Premier John Weary jp 6
though neither a story-writer nor a verse-maker h
been closely identified with Australian literature’ anrt
to him such “discoveries” as Lawson, livers’
others, are largely due. " > anu
Grant Hervey objects to “Kola’s” nomina-
tion of Casterton (Vic.) as a literary shrine
since Mary Gilmore lived there for only a few
years, and Donald Maclean belongs to Dart-
moor or thereabouts —a quaint little village
in the great Smoky Forest district, near the
Glenelg, though he also inhabited Casterton
for a time. This leaves Grant Hervev
as Gasterton’s sole excuse. “That village
holds that it has enough to bear with the
guilt of my existence upon its head.” The
rest of his letter deals with “an interesting
novel,” which Hervey is perpetrating, and
his prophecy that on the date of publica-
tion “all Western Victoria will rear up on
end, along with Casterton, and howl for the
author’s blood.” “N. or M.” nominates Or-
ford, a little township in Tas., the home of
Mrs. Meredith, artist and author, especially
of two admirable books, illustrated with
beautiful and costly plates, upon the wild-
flowers of Tasmania.
♦
In his shilling book, Co-operation and Co-
partnership (The Worker Trade Union
Print, Sydney), Frank E. Pulsford does a
valuable service to the community in indi-
cating the value of the co-operative prin-
ciple and the extent of the movement over-
seas. In the United Kingdom, in 1911,
there were 1407 retail co-operative stores,
with a shareholder membership of 2,640,000.
These stores, the shareholders of which are
almost entirely wage-earners, control a capi-
tal of £41,000,000; and after putting aside
huge sums for the advancement of educa-
tion among their members, they were able
to return to their members as dividends on
purchases nearly £12,000,000. Such a move-
ment cannot remain unrecognised. Yet in
Australia, though the dairy farmers have
recognised its value, in other spheres, such
as co-operative retail and wholesale busi-
nesses, banking, manufacturing and co-
operative housing, the method is represented
only by isolated businesses or not at all.
Frank E. Pulsford furnishes a complete sum-
mary of the movement, with reference
throughout to Australian conditions, and
explains the apparently inexplicable—why
the movement has hitherto languished in the
Commonwealth. Why is it, he asks, that
while Sydney has only 4000 co-operators,
Edinburgh, half its size, has a co-operative
store with 38,000 members, doing a turn-
over of' £1,500,000, and returning to its
members 4s. for every £1 they spend over its
counters? He finds the answer in the lack
of an Australian Co-operative Union, which
would present the co-operative ideal as yet
it has never been presented. The profits, if
any, of his book will be given to help the
movement here; and the author asks all in-
terested in any phase of the movement, and
all who are willing to take advantage of its
profits to communicate with him, Box 874,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Evidently a kindergarten lesson is re-
quired. This is the sort of letter that
punctually arrives once a week: “Please ad-
vise where the book reviewed by the
‘lied Page’ last week can be obtained and
at what price.” For the benefit of this kind
of correspondent, it may be somewhat wearily
mentioned that it is a book-seller’s job to
sell books, that a book-shop is the most likely
place wherein to discover books, that a book-
seller likes to sell books, that any book-shop
anywhere will < sell anybody any_ book pub-
lished by any author at any price, that if
the book-seller hasn’t that book in stock he
will be delighted to procure it from the pub-
lisher, or another book-seller, that he will
enthusiastically quote the price of any book
on anything written by anybody and pub-
lished by anybody else, that no matter where
you live there is always _ some book-shop
within postal reach, and if you will glance
at the “Red Page” you will find the adver-
tisement of a book-seller whose business ana
pleasure it is to sell books.
The American Academy of Arts and Let-
ters has been given articles of incorporation
by the U.S. Senate, though till the House
of Representatives endorses the senate
action, it will not have any ,® x ‘ stenc 0 '
The Academy was initiated in ISJS by m
like “Mark Twain,” John le Farge, aarot-
Gaudens and William Dean Howells, ana
now constituted consists of 50 members, D
certainly not 50 “immortals.” Among
academicians are: Woodrow 1 ( son, c! t
velt, Henry James, Howells, John barg i
Alfred T. Mahan, George W. Cable, Henry
Van Dyke, Henry Cabot Lodge, F. Hopkin
son Smith. Owen Wister, Augustus Thoma.,
Rrander Matthews, Thomas Nelson
Elihu Vedder, Kenyon Cox, Abbott r-
Thayer, John W. Alexander, Bliss ’
James W. Riley, and a host of (to us) un
known authors and artists.


A,
we
Anthony Horderns’ for the Winter Fashions
111
II
Qls7+
7575
82
]\o. 81574.—C0at and Skirt costume, in Fine Navy Coat-
ing Serge, trimmed back and front Black Military Braid; Coat
lined Silk Polonaise and finished Patent Leather Belt; New
Shaped Skirt ijq / g
No. 982.—Maid’s Coat and Skirt Costume, smartly
Tailored in Light or Dark Grey DONEGAL TWEED, buttons close
to neck and finished narrow Patent belt at waist. Three-piece
Skirt . 29/6, 32/6, 35/6
May be had also in S.W. and Worn, sizes, in Grey and Fawn Blanket
Tweed, very smart effect 37 /(j
No. 1575. —Stylish Coat and Skirt Costume, in Black or
Navy Fine Coating Serge, lined through Grey Silk Polonaise;
Skirt is three-piece, high waisted 63/-
t
~o
»-o
c
*O2
9M
427
No. 902. —Fashionable Coat and Skirt Costumes of
Donegal Tweed. Coat has shaped sections at back and sides, self
collar and revers, all finished narrow pipings of Black Satin.
Shaped Skirt with lapped seams and Tailor Buttons 35/-
No. 427. Coat and Skirt Costume, Of Fancy Cheviot Serge,
in Black or Navy; two-piece Skirt, buttoning from waist to hem
with Buttons to match 42/-
No. 964. —Smartly Tailored Coat and Skirt Costume,
of fine Navy Coating Serge, and lined Black Twill Silkette. Skirt
is new three-piece shape. Also in Black 39/6
No. 9035. —Attractive Coat and Skirt Costume, of fine
all-wool Coating Serge, in Black or Navy, Coat Collar and self
revers relieved Silk Military Braid, turn-back cuffs trimmed to
match; plain, well-cut six-piece Skirt.. 39/6
)
no. 1339. — 80y5’ Galatea Suits, in light and
dark shades, suitable for boys from 3 to 5 years.
Price hanging from 5/6, 5/11, 6/6, 6/11
No. 214 x 854.—Child’s White Jap. Silk
Costuniette; a dainty frock, prettily trimnnd
with lace insertion. Suitable for girls from 2 to 0
years. Prices 17/6, 17/11, 18/6
SEND for ANTHONY HORDERNS’
WINTER FASHION PORTFOLIO,
post free on request. It reflects
in every particular the prevailing
modes, and illustrates the
Season’s Novelties, including many
smart and serviceable Costumes and
Coats and the latest styles in Millinery.
No. 1471.—Girls’ Frock for School and
Home Wear, smartly cut in Amazon Cloth,
also Tweed Mixtures, rounded yoke of fine Irish
Guipure Lace, daintily piped, finished button effect.
Colors: Vieux Rose, Grey, Saxe and Brown. Suit-
able for girls from 8 to 13 years. Prices ranging
from
11/6, 11/9, 12/11, 13/6, 14/6, 14/11
No. 1026 x 5166.—Child’s Paletot, in diag-
onal Serge, sac back, split at side, with button
finish. Colors: Navy, Golden-brown and Grey.
Suitable for child from 8 to 13 years. Prices:
, 12/6, 13/6, 146. 15/6, 16/6
ss=
e
1335 W2l
No. 1335.—Attractive Coat ami Skirt Costume, smartly
Tailored in Cinnamon Brown VIENNA CLOTH, with faint line
stripe. Collar and cuffs are in light Tan Cloth, to tone. Black
Patent Leather Belt and Gunmetal Buttons. New shaped Skirt
has pleats at side, finished buttons 69/6
No. 9-11 W2l.—Effective Kobe Costume, of soft Grey
TWEED, in higli-waisted Magyar style, with new “inset” sleeves.
Bodice and Skirt finished Black Satin pipings, shaped self pieces
and Buttons. In S.W., W., and Out sizes 10/tt
No. 223.—Simple but Well-cut One-piece Kobe, of all
wool CHEVIOT SERGE, finished Black Satin Buttons. Skirt has
raised seam back and front. In Navy, Maroon, Mole and
Brown 10/6
m
*
>
54 9
302
No. 559. —Smart and L seful Robe Costume, all-wool
Navy Coating Serge; simulated turn-down Collar of Black Satin;
new “set-in” sleeves, bodice and front of skirt trimmed with mili-
tary Braid and Satin Buttons. S.W., W., O.S 16/11
No. 302. —Becoming Robe Costume, of Navy Habit Cloth,
Magyar bodice, effectively trimmed, well-cut Skirt 14/6
No. 548. — Useful Robe Costume, of good-wearing Cheviot
Serge, in Navy only. Bodice has “set-in” sleeves, finished with
fancy black Silk Braid, and Satin Buttons. In S.W., W.,
os 8/11
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace £mporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


DON’T !
' Although our principals. Messrs. Marshall, Sons & Co., have only been manu-
facturing STEAM ENGINES for a period of 60 years, none of their goods have
yet been discovered which are blue-mouldy or moth-eaten. They are made to
work, hnd in capable hands the MARSHALL will outlast any two engines of
similar make,
DON’T be gulled
into buying an engine simply because it appears cheap. It may be dear at any
price. Therefore, purchase goods with a reputation.
v 5
YOU CAN'T CO WRONG WITH
Marshall’s.
All Classes of Steam Engines and
Boilers, Portable Tractions, Oil
Tractors, Vertical Boilers.
WRITE describing your wants, and
we will mail you suitable literature
per return mail.
CASH or EASY TERMS.
A PUZZLE!
OIL ENGINE BUYERS are frequently at a loss to know what make of Engine
to select, and to all such we would say:
»Deal with a Reputable Firm ” and buy something “Right Up-to-Date."
AS EXPERTS in this line of business we
commend to your notice the
“BIG CHIEF ”
'
OIL ENGINES.
from 1U to 12 H.P., which positively repre-
sent “AMERICA’S BEST,” and this is
backed .up by a
FIVE YEARS’ GUARANTEE.
Fitted with WIZARD MAGNETO and all
latest improvements. Send for Descriptive
Catalogues.
ABSOLUTELY the Best Value ever offered.
w*
Bedrock Prices. Cash or Easy Terms.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO. LTD.,
161 CLARENCE STREET. SYPNCY.
y
«
«
Vi
m
m
<£>
4k
Mm
*K
tmm
E 3
m
m
m
&
Visitor (who has brought
hot sick friend a bottls of
" Wine amis') : " ! am SO
sorry to find you so weak
and ill. Just take ‘Win-
carnis* three times a day
and you will quickly get
well. ‘ Wincarnis ’is really
wonderful. 1 have un-
bounded faith in it.”
** I am delighted to tee
you out of doors again and
looking as well as ever.”
•• Oh I I am so thankful
to be well again. Thanks
to you and ‘ Wiocarnis,'
I am now completely re-
stored to health. It I*
splendid to feel so strong
and well."
Weakness overcome, Anaemia remedied,
111-health banished, Lost Vitality restored.
Every wineglassful of “Wincarnis”
creates a definite amount of new
strength, new vigor, new vitality and
■new life. And' this is the reason.
■“Wincarnis” (the wine of life) is a
; tonic, restorative, hloodmaker and nerve
food. Its first effect is to promote a
feeling of invigoration. Then it en-
riches and revitalises the blood, soothes
and ieeds the nerves, rebuilds the
wasted tissue of the body, and sur-
charges the whole system with renewed
vigor and vitality. That is why everv
wineglassful of “Wincarnis” makes you
stronger and healthier than you were
before. If you suffer from Anasmia,
Sleeplessness, Brain-fag, Weakness, De-
bility, Exhaustion, Lowered Vitality,
Nervous Disorders, or if you are merely
“run-down” or “out-of-sorts,” we ursre
you to commence taking “Wincarnis”
to-day. Bemember that “Wincarnis”
has an unrivalled reputation of nearly
thirty years’ standing —that it is recom-
mended by over 10,000 doctors—an
that countless thousands of sl |f e [ e -|
have proved, beyond question, t ia
gives new life to the invalid, r ® ne y
strength to the weak —increased Hg
to brainworkers —and a wealth o ea
to everyone.
Will you try just one bottler
sfhf
To-day Is the best day to commence taking " Wincarnis.’ Buy a bottle to-day from your Wine Merchant
or Licensed Chemist or Grocer, and test its Marvellous Strengthening Properties.
Australian and New Zealand Depot: FASSETT <EL JOHNSON, 5 ® 7 BarracK Street, SYDNEY.
COLEMAN CEL CO., Wincarnis Worßs, NORWICH, ENG.
The Inky Way.
“Chink”: I don’t doubt the capacity of “Night-
owl” to dispose of seven drinks and a cocktail, so
magnificently tendered by “Quarter Single (B.
17/4/’l3), but I do doubt the good faith ot the
latter’s offer. Moreover, I doubt whether he pays
for even his own beer. Sixthly and lastly, I want
to comment on some other matter emanating from
his pen. Doesn't that “emanating” ring better than
such commonplaces as “coming,” “falling” or even
“springing”? Yet, if we are to accept the dictum
of this smug scribe, such gems must be foregone.
It can’t be done, and it shouldn’t be done, either,
any more than factory ’ands should be deprived of
the language they evolve, partly as a means ot
relieving the monotony of their existence. (That re-
mark is a bit mixed. But it doesn’t matter ; so is
the subject.) What I want to make clear is that
the “Quarter Single” brand of reformer would make
the language a dull, uninteresting thing that was so
easily understandable that no one would want to
know it because of its barren simplicity—just_ as a
golfer dislikes a course with too few hazards. (Hows
that for a beautiful simile?) There is a vast dif-
ference between splashing ponderous words in round-
about ways, and writing with a bit of grace, the
first is an abomination and the second a practical,
aesthetic desideratum. People don’t pay to read
bald, unadorned facts alone, and plain English is all
the better for judicious ornamenting.
* * * *
The English Newspaper Press Fund has been cele-
brating its “golden jubilee.” It was founded 50
years ago by half a dozen members of the House of
Commons Press Gallery for the quiet, confidential
relief of brothers of the pen who required a helping
hand. Charles Dickens, for some time a Parliamen-
tary reporter, was one of its best friends and
patrons. He presided at some of its annual dinners.
(Nothing is done in England without a dinner ) bo
did the late Marquis of Salisbury (also a working
journalist in early manhood), Gladstone, Henry Irv-
'ing and Whitelaw Reid. The present president is
Lord Burnham, proprietor of the London Tk.lf.gra ph.
During the half-century the fund has distributed
£82,357 in grants and pensions, but the names of
recipients are kept a profound secret.
“CRLH.”: For the last four months of my 2i
years’ of hard graft as a reporter, I have been a
linesman on a Sydney daily. I find that every-
thing concerning my kind is taken for granted, it
is taken for granted that the men who look after
districts should be on lines; it is taken for granted
that a district man does not care whether his. stuff
goes in or not; it is taken for granted that, no
matter how much of his work is thrown away, he
must be making a lot of money. I don t take any-
thing for granted, however, and want to make a. few
points. My contention is that district men should be
graded, and on the staff at a fixed salary, the same
as the other reporters. The staff roundsman goes to
the ’phone and rings up the city police stations,
fire-stations and hospitals. Suppose there is nothing
doing, and that his whole day’s work is fruitless
Never mind, his salary goes On all the time. So it
should, because he has been working all the time.
But if the linesman puts in a whole day, and gets
no news, he gets no monev. Even if he gets news,
he is liable to have it slung into the basket. So is
the staff roundsman, or some other member of the
staff ; only, in his case, he gets just as much pay as
if what he wrote was printed. The office pays the
expenses of the staff man ; the district nian pays his
own. The Australian Journalists’ Association won t
let a staff reporter work or be worked more than 48
hours a week : the district man works any old hours,
but almost invariably more than 48. In my own
case, I work, on an average, 59 hours a week, for
an average of about £5 3s. or £5 4s. For
the sort of work I do, I think I should get more than
that, which is made up of a number of lines at the
A.J.A. rate of ljd a line, and one 10s. and one ss.
enrvigement. I get the ss. (the A.J.A. sum for the
four hours) for working from eight to nearly mid-
night on a Saturday night. Seeing that the linesman
is held responsible if he misses something in his
district which the reptile contemnorarv does not
miss, the game hardly looks much good. A mate
who does a district for the rival daily is even worse
treated. His beautiful rag marks him down in the
book for engagements, which sometimes last all
day, and recompenses (?) him on lines. Sometimes
he pays his fare to the Water Bobby Court anrt
stops there, at the order of the office, morning and
afternoon, and is told to “cut things down to the
bone.” If he rebels and doesn’t cut down, then thev
do it for him. An all-day Water Bobbv Court or
High Court or Public Works Committee job nans
out at about ss. or 6s. for him, as a rule on the
lineage of lid. He is, of course, never marked for
such an assignment when there is anvth ng special
on. On some days he has written about half
column of small pars., and got not a line in. Also
his office marks him for night concerts, at times’
with the proviso “only two sticks wanted.” Is that
the way to get the best work out of a man? Most
decidedly, district reporters should be on the staff
the same as the other men. In that case thev
would be Table to be called on to do any kind of
job, of course; but they would not be sweated for
59 hours a week ; they would not be at the merev
of the sub-editor’s liver, nor of the advertising de-
partment, which ofttimes crowds the news to blazes
with an urgent full-page advt.; and they would not
mind so much when they saw, instead of the stuff
they had written, large hunks of reprint on the news
pages.
The London Gazette, the official organ of the
British Government, makes dull reading hut
£20,000 a year profit. Several of the British Gov-
ernment Departments have organs of their own, and
one of them —the Board of Trade Journal—
boasts that it has a more thoroughly world-wide
circle of correspondents than any other organ on
earth. Every British consul in every land is hound
by official regulations to send it a weekly summary
of local eomfnercial news.
* * * *
“Merani”: The best puff par. I ever saw was
written about the margarine which I see is beginning
to give out cow-inen cold shivers. When the stuff
was first marketed a sub. on a Sydney evening paper
sent his milk fed reporter to write a par. for the
promoters. The milk fed reporter wrote that mar-
garine was evidently in for big business. It looked
just like butter, he said, and was just as good as
butter and much cheaper. _ In fact, he added, the
only way you could tell it wasn’t butter was by
tasting it.
* * * *
“Dock and Doris”: There are not enough news-
papers in Melbourne for a city of nearly 650,000.
The three dailies combined latelv to shoo off the
threatened new evening paper, though it is really
only staving off the good day when Melbourne will
have both a new morning and a new evening paper.
Here are authoritative estimates of net yearly
revenues; Age and Leader. £80,000; Argus and
Australasian, £20.000; Herald and Weekly
Times, £40.000. With the population growmg
every day, there is surely room for a cut-in at these
figures. But the new daily must not be burdened
with a weekly cow-paper. The cow-paper, with its
lack of news, and its surplusage of stodgv writing
and dreadful photos, of bucolic show-committeemen,
is just as much doomed as Carthage was. Why
also, have we not a paper like Collier’s Weekly,
blank of short stories concerning agricultural pur-
suits, but pregnant with news of the outer world,
tempered bv a higher criticism of our local people
and their doings? And it would surely pay to cut
out most of the information about the small political
men and things that really don’t matter. Actors
and noliticians get far too much space and attention
in mv morning paper. In future I have determined
to do without them —and the farmers, who are a
necessarv evil, but are dreadfully uninteresting.
* * * *
An Indian press item: —
“The proprietor of the printing press in Ratlam
(Guirat) announces that as a humble expression of
gratitude for the divine proteet’on from death of the
Viceroy ; n the recent bomb outrage, he. has decided to
reduce his printing charges by 25 p.c. for one year,
honing that others will show their loyalty in the
same way.”
Thus the poor Indian, with uplifted eyes, meekly
shows Europe how to advertise.


•i
General Electric Co. U.S.A.
ELECTRIC MINE HOISTS
Double Drum Hoist of 90001 b. capacity, with General Electric Co.
112-H.P. Alternating Current Motor.
The General Electric Co. TJ.S.A. have many
motors operating on haulage sets and hoists
throughout Australia, and is prepared to furnish
the Complete Electrical Equipment for all classes
of Hoist work.
This Equipment includes Alternating Current
and Direct Current Motors, Drum type, or
Automatic Magnetic Contractor Control Ap-
paratus, Solenoid Brakes, Limit Switches,
Solenoid Operated Emergency Valves, etc.
Why not permit us to go
into your Haulage Problems ?
WRITE FOR BULLETIN 4939.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC Co.
217 Clarence Street, Sydney. Corner Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne.
HEALTH or SICKNESS
Take regularly the Allenburys’Diet. It is most easy of assimilation, increasing vitality
and diminishing fatigue. It restores the impaired digestion and gives tone to the whole
system. Prepared from pure, rich milk and whole wheat, combined in a partially
predigested form, the Allenburys’ Diet is a complete food, and is valuable alike for
the Invalid and Robust. Made in a Minute add boiling water only.
Allen & Hanburys
Ltd.
LONDON, ENGLAND, and
MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
i
W7v
»
“Things done by halves are never
done right.” “Golcryst,” the new aper-
ient made from Epsom Salts, Senna,
Sarsaparilla, Dandelion, Liquorice and
Ginger, '‘gets to business” thoroughly.
There are no half measures about
“Golcryst.” Yet there is no griping
nor weakening. “Golcryst” has no equal
as a Blood purifying and Rheumatism
curing medicine.
Everywhere 3d., 6d. and Is. sample
posted free by Proprietors,
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO.,
Melbourne.
THE LONE HAND for Good Stories and Bright Articles. Price 6d.
The American Ring Pulveriser
is designed for
Crushing and pulverising limestone, lime, coke,
brickbats, sewer pipe, terracotta, glass, quartz, phos-
phate rock, sandstone, gravel, tile crockery, flint,
manganese ore, oyster shells, stove lining, shale and
all other refractory materials.
Made in Six Sizes.
The various sizes are made with a view of - meeting
the requirements of the small, medium and large
consumer.
Crushing and Pulverising to Fines.
Those materials of a refradtory nature can be fed to
the machine in 3in. to 6in. cubes and smaller.
The several degrees of fines are secured by installing Grate Bars containing interstices of various widths. A measured
degree of fines is secured by running the materials over a given mesh screen, returning the rejections to the Pulveriser. The
coarser the grind the greater the tonnage capacity, while the finer the grind the smaller the tonnage capacity. The more
dry the material is made, the faster and finer the machine will pulverise.
Strength and Durability.
Careful observations, based upon aClual experience, have resulted in adding to and making extremely strong all parts
of the machine. Extended research and grinding tests year in and year out have brought about the use of Manganese Steel,
a metal that will best resist abrasion and withstand impaCl.
We shall be pleased to show you these in operation in Sydney. Send for Catalogue.,
r
a?
■
*;,■ ■
-
Australian Representatives:
HAES & EGGERS LTD.
9
163 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
The Most Famous Small-Bore SINGLE SHOT RIFLE IN THE WORLD!
S T E V ENS
FAVORITE No. 17.
m
lf)l as STEVENS
ghsfd
Furnished with Automatic Ejector in 22 calibre.
Carefully bored and rifled by the celebrated Stevens method.
For -22 Long Rifle, '25 Stevens and '32 Long rim fire cartridges. State which
calibre you prefer when ordering.
STEVENS are the “ Bull’s Eye” Rind. Sold by all dealers in the Commonwealth.
For full information, latest catalogues, etc., apply to
ARTHUR H. HILL,
Australian Representative for J. Stevens Arms & Tool Co.,
Box 86, Q.P.0., Adelaide, South Australia. [2
Reliable Firearms.
BEIRNE Priced.
THEXWONG K
No. BUs6.—Our Special “Wonga” Single-barrel Gun. The newest and best gun on the market.
Fitted with automatic shell ejector, 12 or 16 gauge, 30in. special steel barrel, choke bored, top
lever action, works either right or left. Weight, about 6jjlb. Price, 25/- Packing and
postage, 2/6 extra.
hgsfd
cartridges.
No. BUSO. —Winchester Model 1892, half-magazine re-
peating rifle, with either 20in. or 24 in. round or
octagon barrel. Weight, to 71b. Magazine
capacity, 7 cartridges for 25.20, 32, 38, and 44-calibre
Price —Octagon Barrel, 65/-; Round Barrel, 62/6. Packing and postage, 3/-
extra.
THE
VALLEY,
T. C. BEIRNE & GO., BRISBANE.
Write for our Special Gun Catalogue.
ulv
(§>
A
0
o
o
is
N 0.2 MODEL RIFLE 22cal.
This perfect small bore rifle has already
become Australia’s favorite rifle for sporting
and range work. It has a full length barrel, fitted with latest sights
marked off to 200 yds., and will make a 2 in. group at 100 yds.
Takes down to a convenient length for cyclists, trappers, etc. B.S.A.
quality all through, and retails everywhere at 35/-.
Get on to this line; it is good. Wiite now for latest B.S.A. Catalog
of Rifles, Sights, etc. Post free from —
D. Y. RENNIE,
(Representing
B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
Australian Bldgs., Melbourne
ghsfdgh
Will Anprape ~ BOOKS-
Any of these Catalogues
Free for the asking :
(I) Plays, Recitations.
i,2) Magical Goods.
(3) Useful Books.
(4) Building Books.
(5) Mechanical and
Engineering Books.
(6) Medical Books.
i 7; Socialistic Books
(8) Sixpenny Novels.
(9) Australian Books.
(10) Athletic Books.
(II) Wigs, Beards,
G- reas e 'Pa in ts,
Masks.
Easy Method of Learning French, German,
Italian, Spanish, 1/7 each language; Speeches and
Toasts for all occasions, 1/1 ; Every Man His Own
Carpenter, 1/1; Bernard Macfadden’s Building of
Vital Power, 5/4 ; Macfadden’s Superb Virility of
Manhood, 5/4; Macfadden’s Sweethearts for Lives,
5/4; Amateur Conjuring Book, easy tricks, illus-
trated, 7d.; Boxing and Self-Defence, 1/2; Book
of Love Letters, 1/-; Hypnotism, Mesmerism and
Clairvoyance, 1/1 ; Horse Doctor, 1/1 ; What Young
People Should Know, Confidential Talks, 1/1 ; Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book of Nature, the only
genuine and complete edition, 3/6; New 1912
edition, enlarged, 32 extra plates, illustrating
i°tnale anatomy, handsome cloth cover, 5/-; New
Tricks w'th Cards, 1/-; House Painting, Paper-
hanging, Whitewashing, etc., 1/4; 3000 Priceless
Secrets, 1/8; Irish Jokes and Witty Sayings, 9d. ;
Complete Letter Writer for Ladies and Gerttlemen,
1/-; Dancing Without an Instructor, 1/-; Lovers’
Guide to-Courtship and Marriage, 1/-
WtrAND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
MASKS
For Fancy Dress
Balls, Skating
Carnivals, Pro-
cessions, etc.
Large Variety.
Write'lor List.
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
2] FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne.
'hi
' V 7 <
Simply
Turn a Screw
and Pull —
that’s all that’s neces-
sary to detach the bar-
rel of a Remington-UMC
Repeating Rifle.
It’s just as easy to clean
—it’s all done from the
breech and you can look
through the barrel and see
that it’s clean.
You’ll like this thor-
oughly tested, accurate,
reliable rifle made by expert
gunsmiths—a century’s ex-
perience is builded into it.
It is hammerless, has solid breech—no possibility of
accidental discharge or blow backs. '
Shoot Remington-UMC Lesmok 22’s—they made the world’s
highest score and most perfect group. Remington-UMC
Repeating Rifles and Shot Guns. Ammunition for
all makes of fire arms. For sale everywhere. - .
Remington Arms—Union Metallic Cartridge Co.
(M. Hartley Company, Export Agent) 299-301 Broadway, New York, U. S.A.
A GREAT riUSICAL INNOVATION.
gfSSSESSISfi
{Sand
ALBERT’S SYSI
IHTIBCHAHCEABLE
parts
hard fh. E()
, "ebbs
Two more (new) “Boomerang”
Mouth Organ Types, The “ Boom-
erang Grand ” (48 Reeds), Price
6/6 (New); the “Miniature
Grand ” (24 Reeds), Price 3/6 (New)
—Post Free to any address.
These two new types possess already the great superiority of the “Boomerang” Mouth Organ
tonality, but being tuned to the grand concert pitch, and provided with extra reeds, they at
.once raise their bewitching harmony above the best reed-combination. The sweetness and body
of resonance emanating from the “BOOMERANG GRAND” can only be equalled by the tuneful
combination of the Harp and Flute. Try one, and the “BOOMERANG GRAND” will become your
inseparable companion. Try the 0/6 one for preference.
wholesale and Retail from J. ALBERT & SON, 137 FCing Street, Sydney.
(Remit by Australian or N.Z. Postage Stamps.)
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens
Seven
Prise Medals.
•I 7 ]
Works i Birmingham, England,
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead penal.
Attention >s also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Senes.
Ask yonr Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
sfdh
Clements Tonic.
“To CLEMENTS TONIC, LTD.
“From May to the end of October, 1912, I suffered
agonies with acute MUSCULAR RHET MATISM.
My ankles, knees and shoulder joints became
swollen and painful, and the excruciating pains in
my back were almost unbearable. 1 was in a
helpless condition, could scarcely stand; to maxe
matters worse, I completely lost my appetite, and to sleep at night was out of tne
question.
“I had the best medical advice and medicines, Turkish and hot salt-water
baths out of number, also was massaged three times a week, but all to no purpose.
“I began to despair of ever being well again, and, as a last resource, concluded
to try CLEMENTS TONIC, I had read so much of it.
“I did so, and I FELT A WONDERFUL IMPROVEMENT. By the time
1 had finished my second large bottle the swelling of the joints and pains in
back left me. my appetite had returned, and I slept well. When I was on
fourth bottle I felt as vigorous and strong as I ever did in my life.
“I can now go about and enjoy myself with renewed energy, that makes life
worth living. I have only Clements Tonic to thank for coming to my tim .
assistance, when all other remedies failed to restore me to perfect health.
“(Signed) FREI). E. DIAMOND, J.P.
“No. 8 Rosedale Street, Petersham, Sydney, N S.W.”
CLEMENTS TONIC IS THE
BEST OF MEDICINES.
GET IT AND GET WELL. All Chemists and Stores sell it.
This medicine is invaluable for restoring strength after illness, Fever, Weakness,
“ Insomnia, Indigestion, or Constipation. It gives strength and health.


Ayer's
Hair |
Vigor I
n
i
) What does it do? It makes
k the hair soft and glossy, pre-
cisely as nature intended. It
cleanses the scalp from dan-
druff, and thus removes one of
the great causes of baldness. It
makes a better circulation in
the scalp, and thus greatly pro-
motes growth. And it stops the
hair from coming out. But it
never affects the color. Consult
your doctor; follow his advice.
Falling hair is sometimes caused
by impure blood or weak nerves.
Then constitutional treatment with
Ayer's Sarsaparilla is necessary.
This local and constitutional treat-
ment will surely bring prompt results.
Prepared by DR. J. C. AYER & CO..
Itoweil, Mass.. U. 8. A.
sfdh
BUY DIRECT
FROM FACTORY.
and we guarantee you a saving of at least
£lO All goods sent freight free. 12 years’
warranty. A postcard will bring you our
Catalogue. Established 1875.
SANDON & STEEDMAN,
76 Finsbury Pavement. London, England.
Apply for Free Catalogue to Mr. F.
... Williams, Post Office, Parramatta, N.S.W.
W E SAVE YOU POUNDS.
I
I
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
SYDNEY : John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
MELBOURNE : Briscoe & Co., Ltd., Lit. Collins St.
BRISBANE : Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH : McLean Bros. & Rigg.
Aus. Rep.—T. Nicholls, c/o Sydney Agents.
\
jl
sfdh
Fashionable
Favorite-Perfume
V '
F.WOLFF&oOHN
F. Wolff &Sohn
PERFUMERS
KARLSRUHE
.BERLIN * LONDON
Obtainable from all the leading stores.
COLORED POST CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston— “ WEEKLY WORRIES.”
Set of six, posted fre;, 6d. Bulletin
Newspaper Co. 214 George St., Sydney.
BONNINCTON’S WILL ANSWER YES
HGTO»*
ft • ' N
H 055
(RfSH
-V
SS?4frsff^ v 7
§.*.••. j.r«,.«•«*"
to the question—is it the best ? Yes it is undoubtedly the
best Cough Remedy that skill and purest ingredients can
produce. This preparation has been curing Coughs
and Colds for upwards of 45 years, and although numer-
ous imitations have appeared from time to time none
have stood against “Bonnington’s’' of 40 years fame.
Bonninciws
Irish Moss.
The ideal family medicine is equally
beneficial for Adults or Children.
Mothers can give it to the little ones
with every confidence as it is entirely
free from harmful narcotics.
Sold Everywhere.
1/6 <a 2/6.
Do not take imitations—just ask for “BONNINGTON’S” and
see that you get it.
«5
&
iRfSH.^T
RUNKENNESS Cured.
Any lady can cure the most violent drunkard—secretly— at home. GOLDEN
tias 110 oc^or or ta ste, and can be taken by the most delicate person
ot either sex. It totally eradicates all craving for stimulants, creating a last'
. . ln S antipathy to alcohol in a few weeks. Many cases are cured in a few days
with this treatment. . . Send 2d. stamp for FREE SAMPLE and full particulars.
THE GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO., DEPT. 4'» MARKET STREET, SYDNEY. N.S.W.
sdh
THIN, UNDEVELOPED WOMEN!
A thin woman is not necessarily plain, let alone ugly. In fact, many thin
women possess very pretty, “sweet faces,’’ but this is usually admitted with
the qualifying phrase, “but, poor thing, she is so dreadfully thin.”
A woman’s chief charm is a well-rounded. figure and a full bosom. With
these, thin arms and hollow cheeks are a rarity.
Thousands of women suffering the ravages of ill-health have sought and
accepted this advice, and to-day are models of womanly development and
examples of perfect health. You can acquire the same results.
No woman need stay thin and undeveloped. Dr. Falliere’s FLESH-FOOD
is a harmless, perfect flesh-builder. It increases the vitality and improves
the general health. Some cases report a gain in weight of over five pounds
a week, and an increase in bust measure by six inches or more.
We want you to know just what “FLESH FOOD” is, and will gladly give
you a free sample. Send 2d. stamp, and let us forward a free trial sample
and our instructive book. “FLESH FOOD” is put up in tablet form, and
can be secretly taken if desired. All correspondence is confidential and
private, and all our literature is sent closely covered and free from observa-
tion. Write at once. It is absolutely free. (1418)
FAhhIEBE IMiESH-ITOOD CO., 1103 Ash Street, Sydney.
Do You Want to
be Rid of Your
VARICOSE VEINS?
THIS APPEAL is made direct to you because from our experience we, know that
thousands of people have suffered the tortures of the damned from varicose veins
and ulcers because they did not know there was a painless cure for this disastrous
complaint. Did you know that there really is a certain and lasting cure?
Owing to the failure of ordinary methods to overcome this trouble, the lay-
man has come to believe that no cure exists for the trouble —a belief that was
founded on fact until four years ago. THE VECSEY METHOD OF HOME .TREAT-
MENT has made possible the absolute cure of varicose veins and ulcers without
operation or laying up. It is a purely home method, simple and efficacious. It is
perfectly harmless and painless. In fact, in those cases where the sufferer has
been incapacitated for days by pain, the treatment afforded almost instant relief.
Ulcers that have been open sores for years have entirely disappeared under a few weeks’ treatment.
We want you to learn all about our method. Send 2d. stamp for free book, giving
full particulars. Written diagnosis or Consultation FREE. Get a specimen copy
of our refund guarantee. (1423)
Mr. O. Vecsey.
FREE BOOK,
THE VECSEY VARIX-ARIUM, 3103 Ash Street,
Sydney.
For BILIOUSNESS & INDIGESTION
E
9
m
U
e
PBILLI
CONSTIPATION CONQUERED.
There lies the vital secret where so many diseases and ailments are
concerned Constipation must be conquered, or normal organic action,
freedom from liver and kidney troubles, and from stomach and bowel
disorders, is not possible.
i • , C °£ kle ’ S Pill f conc l uer Constipation of the most stubbornly aggressive
because they strengthen and stimulate and revivify the organs,
whmh they cleanse and regulate with such consummate ease and efficiency
The whole system is freed from the wholesale disturbance due to the con-
stipated tendency, from blood impurities, from effete matter, from lurking
lsease. Yet Cockle s Pills act so gently and pleasingly that the most
delicate persons like them.
FREE TO
SMOKERS !
Mr. R. J. Hinton, Jerrara Creek, Marulan, N.S.W.,
writes:—•
“It gives me great pleasure to inform you that I
have been completely cured of the Tobacco Habit by
vour wonderful Tobacco Specific, after using tobacco
heavily for seven years, sometimes Boz. to lOoz. in
the week. It is now 12 months since I last used
tobacco, and, although I am continually in the com-
pany of smokers,' I do not have the least desire to
smoke, therefore I consider the cure permanent.
“My general health is now perfect; all my former
complaints, such as irregular Heart Action, Dizzi-
ness, Nervousness and Stomach Trouble, which I
have every reason to believe were caused through the
use of tobacco, have entirely disappeared, and are
only remembered as a hideous nightmare. I eat
and sleep well, and feel fit to face the world again.
It will give me great pleasure to recommend your
remedy to others.”
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a FREE
SAMPLE of Tobacco Specific, also Booklet, Testi-
monials, etc.
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
DEPT. Q,
107 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
[L
PAGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
ARE YOU
Ruptured
Hava you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring'trusses ? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUBHION APPLIANCE
Nevermind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance.
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE. COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women & children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins-st., Melbourne! Vic.
Tfce - St»Bdard Remedy which has outliyed the Centurle*.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
in «m ainc« 1606.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Aak your chemist for its history—the book is free—or writs
6- GREEN. 210. Lambeth Road, Londo^Eng*
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Song.
My lady kissed mine eyes;
I heard old Earth’s deep laughter.
My lady frowned ; the wise
Old Earth wept sore thereafter.
Most kind my lady is,
When she is fain to woo me;
But cruel she, I wis,
When her contempt cuts through me.
So, while she’s sweet to me,
I never can forsake her;
But when her cruelty
Awakes, the Devil take her!
My heart can never change
vv hile tender this dear maid is;
But when she scolds, I range,
And worship other ladies.
Thus all things serve their end,
D joy. hath ample measure.
She frowns. I fly. She’ll mend
Ihe sooner thus, my treasure!
My lady kissed mine eyes;
at* heard the stars’ deep laughter.
My lady frowned ; the wise
Grave stars made moan thereafter.
MAORI!. AND.
FRANK MORTON.
On the Purple Turn of Affairs.
Purple is the fashionable color.— Daily paper.
In purple robes m.v lady
(Joes down the purple world,
Her hat-brim broad and shady
Above her sweetness curled.
In sunset’s broad imperial weather
Mie laughs beneath a purple feather.
The quiet little oysters
Are dreaming in the wet,
™ e r, cold m °nks in their cloisters
Who labor to forget
How, when the midnight hours were chiming,
xouth s kiss on Beauty’s lip was rhyming.
A little wind is creeping
Across the outer bay
That holds chill dusks in keeping
To scatter down the wav,
And all the air is purple laden
io match the dress of one brown maiden.
To purple fancies leaning
I hold her purple waist,
Her lips from laughter weaning
To try their purple taste,
A taste like ripe, sweet peaches bursting
The drought of Hades’ fiery thirsting.
A purple sky above me,
A purple air around,
A purple breast to love me
Mid waves of purple sound ;
.Neronian extravagances
Are sleeping in her purple glances.
But yesterday her laughter
Was simple, sweet and light,
ihe soft wind sighing after
Caressed her skirts of white.
And on her hat-brim deftlv tilted
The pallid lilies drooped and wilted.
Then like a village maiden
She tripped along the street
W dll small pink blushes laden
And bird wings in her feet ;
Now in the purple hues of passion
She turns a queen to suit the fashion.
So towards her purple leaning
I hold her purple waist,
Her lips from laughter weaning
To try their purple taste,
While in the broad imperial weather
Above us waves a purple feather.
N.S.W.
GEORGE STREET.
A Song of Ants and Kisses.
A languid hand around her waist,
I aint ripples on the gold-splashed river,
A hot kiss flavored to my taste,
Ky the soft glances of the giver!
Two chirping wrens amid the trees
Danced here and there with flirting
feather.
And all the steep hill’s sandstone knees
Were aproned bright with loving weather.
A yellow light behind the hill,
Her brown hair tumbled in that bright-
ness,
A whispered laughter, and the thrill
Of one small throat’s delicious whiteness!
The small ants ran along the stones
And made a faint pretence of stinging,
While evening spoke in undertones
And all our life and blood were singing.
It sang a song of careless bliss,
,l^nt- throbbing to the maddest measure,
Till life and time held but one kiss
As their supreme and richest treasure.
The sun winked gold and dropped away.
The long, sweet dusk came trailing after,
The darkness folded up the day
And sprinkled it with starry laughter.
And down the darkened path we went
To where the little waves made merry,
Till youth and pleasantness were pent
In raptured gladness on the ferry.
Her lingering arm around my waist,
Faint silver on the far-spread river,
I found all kisses to my taste
When richly flavored with the giver.
The dark roofs rose against the sky,
Along the Quay the trams were speeding
Electric roses set on high
Bloomed in cold beds the airs were weed-
ing.
The world went out. We did but pause,
Some brief, cold facts to lightly mention ;
The city sundered us with claws
Of rending, useless, dull convention.
But still the dark in undertones
Through all my life and blood was singing,
Of small ants running on the stones,
That made a faint pretence of stinging.
N S.W,
CURSE O' MOSES.


MARCUS CLARK & CO. LTD.
Famous
Patent
Combination Couches.
PATENT NO. 12274.
A Cosy Bed or an Elegant Couch—can be changed from one to
the other without any inconvenience or loss of time.
We deliver in
City and
Suburbs in our
own Waggons.
Delivered to
Sydney
Wharves or
Railway Sta-
tion Free of
Charge.
7-
m.
s
am
ii-
ft*
• -S'
V
80S
V
*
Kf
V
ii&j#
3«
rs
RSSifc
•••
Oi
¥PS
ilfSl
r>
From £4| 10|= With Box, as illustrated, 21/= extra.
SEND FOR SPECIAL PATTERNS AND SPECIAL ESTIMATES.
MARCU^CLARK & CO. Ltd.,
Central Square, Opposite Railway Station, SYDNEY.
Dl N N E FORD'S]
Magnesia
DINNEFORD'S
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see that
“Dinneford &Co.”
is on every boule
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
ON TNENOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
*? .
w, 1 t.
i
Any QUESTION pertaining
to the installation of Modern
Ceilings and their decoration,
addressed to the Architectural
Department of
WUNDERLICH LIMITED,
will receive prompt attention.
THE quaint charm of many of the Modern Homes depends largely upon the
treatment of the Ceiling and Wall decoration.
WUNDERLICH CEILINGS give that unique finish to an apartment that
proclaims the original and artistic Home Builder.
WUNDERLICH CEILINGS are the most reliable materials ; they do not
crack, warp or fall down —the most serviceable —the most economic—the most
convenient to instal.
WUNDERLICH CEILINGS and WALL LININGS are specified by leading
architects, and are found in thousands of homes throughout the Commonwealth.
No one considering the construction of a home should fail to secure the
WUNDERLICH CATALOGUE.
COUPON. Please send Catalogue, post free.
Mr
Postal Address
Box 474 Q.P.0., Sydney.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED
MANUFACTURERS,
SYDNEY, nELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, BRISBANE,
HOBART, LAUNCESTON, and at WELLINGTON, N.Z.
New Zealand Agent: BRISCOE & CO. LIMITED,
Wellington, Dunedin, Auckland, Christchurch, Invercargill.
THE “TITAN” HOT WATER BAG.
GUARANTEED TWO SEASONS.
A Fire will warm your room all right, but it cannot be
taken to bed. A Hot Water. Bag can, and no home should
be without one. . • . .
“Titan” Bags are made from special heat-resisting
rubber, double strengthened at seams, and fitted with
safety stopper, to allow steam to escape while being filled.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Storekeepers.
Convenient sizes are :
Bags without With sealette cover
cover. in fancy patterns.
10x8 .. •• 5/9 6/9
I*>xB .. •• 6/6 7/6
14x10 .. •• 9/- i 10/6
If unable to obtain locally, post order direct.
9d. extra.
SOLID RUBBER AIR CUSHIONS.
Invaluable for invalids or others who have to do a lot of
sitting or lying.
Dia. 14in. 16in. 18in.
Round . . 12/6 16/6 20/-
Square . . 14/6 18/6 22/6
Postage Paid.
Postage,
20in.
22/6
25/-
VAVW ■> V S V VH 1
titan’
HOT WATER'/
BAG Vy
4
4
V
guaranteed'^
TWO SEASONS^
vb
RUBBER C 9 L T 9
270 George St., Sydney; and 105 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
THE BEST STORIES written in Australia appear in THI
LONE HAND each month. Price Sixpence.
sdh
————
If so, Why not purchase a musical
instrument that is easy to learn, has a
wonderful VOLUME OF TONE
Melba
The Accordeon
with
The Silver Tone
are just perfection for song accompan-
iment, dance and picnic music, grand
organ-like tone. 3 popular models.
The organ-toned Melba, 3 sets Bell
Metal Reeds, price 22/6 post free.
The Dance King, 4 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 30/- post free.
The Picnic Model, 2 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 15/-post free.
OTHER MODELS—ALL PRICES—ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE POST FREE.
Sole Agents, ALIAN S’ CO., P’ty. Ltd., 276-8 Collins St., Melb., Bendigo, Geelong.
COMMER ” LORRY—3 Ton Capacity.
“COMMER” MOTOR LORRIES
INCREASE YOUR BUSINESS RADIUS.
Any good motor-lorry—such as the “Commer” —by its speed and capacity m^ s
definitely increase your effective business radius. The splendid features identified wi
the “Commer” Motor-lorry are specially adapted to Australian needs and conditions.
They withstand the severe tests Of years of hard usage, and remain staunch and re ia e
servants under all conditions.
Capacity: 1 Ton to 7 Tons.
SPECIFICATION: Engine, four cylinders, cast in pairs; Bosch
high-tension
magneto; gear-driven, also coil and accumulator; chain-drive, with chain cases, auto
made lubrication ; efficient radiator; three, four and five speeds forward and one reverse,
direct drive on top gears always in mesh with dog clutch drive; foot-brake on riv
between gear-box and differential, operated by pedal on foot-board; side hand ra
operated on drum of rear wheels ; internal expanding, positively taken on and o 1
larger models a special spring buffer drive is fitted between differential and gear-box,
latter being of the “fool-proof” type); complete set of tools; ball-bearings throug ° u •
ANY TYPE OF BODY FITTED
Investigate the “Commer” fully—it will repay inspection. We will arrange any tria
or demonstration on request. Full particulars posted free.
DALGETY ®. CO. LTD.
Motor Garage : 136=138 Phillip Street, Sydney.
MELBOURNE: Bourke Street. BRISBANE: George Street.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 34.—N0. 1739.
THURSDAY, JUNE 12, 1913.
PiilCH 6|J.
A TIME OF STORMS.
The good ship Fusion is making heavy weather at the elections, but the captain still has hopes.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Mac-
Leod, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets,
Mosman, for The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214
George Street, Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
!Per Annum £l6 0
Half-yearly . . .. . . 013 6
‘Quarterly.. .. .. .. 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings Sterling you can have The Bulletin
.posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques. Drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
Ml Business Communications to he addressed to 2'he
Manager.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some
•care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “'The Editor, Th p Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped lettero are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
2'lie Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
■ umn all contributions submitted, whether in the form
•of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short
.'Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Australian sub-
jects, and not exceeding two columns in length, or,
say, 8000 ivords, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
iLetters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
xwill be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
tthe address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
mo MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
t conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded wifth-
w.ut stamps for return it will be understood that the
asopy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Personal
(applications for return of MS. cannot receive atten-
tion. The Bulletin desires, further, those sending
MS. to distinctly understand that it is not respon-
sible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash, of
sufficient merit and interest and adapted for direct
reproduction, or any interesting photograph illus-
trative of a current event, will be paid for same on
acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea, but
unfitted for diunect reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only, 2'he conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa.— The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada .—Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Ml Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros.. Nanaimo, 8.C.; S. G.
Jlarlin, Mb Granville Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. —Childs News Agency, corner Fifth and D
:Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Golden Gate News Co., 789
Market Street, San Francisco: Quaker News Co..
Philadelphia, U.S.A. ; Queen City News Co., Randolph
.and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street, Ilong
Hong.
Ceylon. —lF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, 1 Vest Australia, Queensland, Tas-
mania and New Zealand; and on account of Messrs.
Atkinson and Co., and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide —at
4/G per doz. nett.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size, C|tn.
x 11/in.. and gelatine transparencies, will be forwarded
on application. Larger metal plates can be supplied if
desired.
Postage Rates.
Singfe Copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper):—throughout the Commonwealth, New Zea-
land, Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, 10oz.. id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, 16oz. Id. Only one newspaper should be en-
closed in each packet — otherwise, Boz. Id., and 8)oz.
to 10oz., Zid.; lOoz. to ISoz. Sd.; elsewhere, ioz. Id.,
and id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, JUNE 12, 1913.
THE PARTIAL DOWNFALL.
According to the available evidence, Andrew
Fisher has lost his job as Prime Minister
of the Commonwealth, and Joseph Cook
will reign in his stead. That is to say,
Joseph Cook appears to have acquired an
infinitesimal majority in the Representa-
tives, and a very humble and diminished
minority in the Senate. Rut as the Repre-
sentatives make the Ministry, it may be
said that J. Cook has won. He will, appar-
ently, have a controlling influence in the
House of Most Importance, if he can per-
suaue the chronic absentees of his party to be
present with anything like the regularity of
their opponents; but, unless he gives every
chronic absentee a portfolio to anchor him
down to his seat, the position will be full of
difficulty. Labor, with, a majority of two, is
much stronger than Liberalism with a ma-
jority of six or seven, by reason of the fact
that'amateur Liberal politicians like Bruce
Smith have got into the habit of regarding
the political business they are paid to attend
to as a sort of casual recreation, like wood-
carving or the collection of stamps or old
engravings. Should Cook persuade his men
to be on hand when wanted, which has never
happened yet, he may push lory measures
ithrough one House, with the dead certainty
of seeing them rejected in the other, in con-
sequence of which he will be a failure. In
fact, he has already marked his sense of the
hopelessness of the situation by promising
that he won’t attempt any Tory measures, or
try to reverse Fisher’s progressive policy.
Therefore it remains to him to justify his
public existence by being more advanced
than his predecessor—say, by going the
whole hog on High Protection, and the Port
Darwin railway, and a few other matters on
which Fisher unfortunately weakened and
got cold feet —and thus he may repair his
dilapidated fortunes by forcing his oppo-
nents to support him when his friends leave
him in the lurch. Or he may borrow money.
If he doesn’t care to account for his exist-
ence by declaring that King O’Malley is
a back number who can’t keep up with the
raging Red Republicanism of Conroy, then
the only way in which he can differentiate
himself from his enemy, without falling
over his own boots, and breaking his own
neck, is by floating a loan.
The downfall of the Federal Labor power
was based entirely on the elections for the
House of Representatives. The losses hap-
pened in New South Wales and Victoria.
Taking the other States in the aggregate, the
party gained ground. In New South Wales,
where the downfall was very bad, Labor
was burdened by the utter discreditableness
of the local Government —the most profligate
outfit by which the State was ever cursed.
Certainly the insane borrowings and the
mad expenditure and the utterly imbecile
finance of a State Labor Government
shouldn’t reflect adversely on a non-bor-
rowing and strictly honest Federal Labor
Government, but it takes a well-balanced
mind to draw distinctions between the two.
The voter who left the State Labor party
because he couldn’t afford to be seen dead
in the same paddock with McGowen and
Holman and Griffith, automatically left
the Federal Labor party likewise. When
he became a State Liberal he also became a
Federal Liberal. In Victoria, where the losses
were smaller, but were still disastrous, the
half-hearted old scheme of “sinking the fiscal
issue” was probably the one thing respon-
sible. Victoria takes its national policy
seriously, and it grew weary of the crowd
that sat on a rail, and had one foot in
sea and one foot on land, and was to one
thing constant never. Certainly it transferred
a measure of its support to an equally bad
crowd, but where both crowds are bad the
only device is to throw them out alternately,
till one of them takes the hint and reforms,
or else is thrown out so often that it dies
of concussion.
The success of the Fisher party at the
Senate elections is in the natural order of
events. Queensland gave a big majority
for Labor in the House of Representatives
at last election, and a bigger majority this
time. Six years ago three Tories, Sayers
and Chataway and Sledger, won in
Queensland, not on their merits, but because
the misfortunate Anderson Dawson split
the Labor vote. Three years ago the Labor
vote was not split, but the Liberal vote was,
and three Labor candidates won. This time
neither vote is split, and on the clean-cut
issue Labor looks like scoring a big victory,
and Sayers and Chataway and Sledger
promise to go back to the obscurity out of
which mere accident pushed them. Victoria
is not so strong on Labor as it was, the
fiscal-sinking supersitition having given it
the tired feeling, but there Fisher’s worst
enemy has done him a good turn. The mis-
guided Argus insisted on running a fourth
Liberal candidate in the Freetrade and Im-
porting interest, and whatever drawbacks
the Victorian Liberal may have, he has little
use for the Freetrade and Importing interest.
At time of writing the three candidates nom-
inated by the Victorian Liberal machine are
behind by just about the paltry handful of
votes which the Argus candidate took away
from the party. South Australia gave an
extra seat to Labor in the House of Repre-
sentatives, so it was natural that it should
also strengthen the Labor position in the
Senate. And when Liberalism turned down
its brightest ornament in the person of
Josiah Symon, partly because he was too
progressive, and partly because he was not
duly subservient to the men who ran the
machine or party implement, it cut its
throat in a large, copious fashion, and made
a horrible blot of blood on the floor. The
infuriated Symon, who never had any great
sympathy with Liberalism, ran on his own,
and that about finished the chances of the
Cook crowd in S.A. It is the good luck of
the Labor party that it has a strong hold
on South Australia and Queensland. For
Senatorial purposes, one voter there counts
for a great deal more than in N.S.W. and
Victoria. In fact, while one South Aus-
tralian voter is not necessarily of any more
value, so far as the House of Representa-
tives is concerned, than one N.S.W. voter,
he is worth, to the party that has the luck
to secure him, between four and five times
as much as the N.S.W. man in his capacity
as a voter for the Senate. The fortune of
the Labor party in getting a mortgage on
Queensland and South Australia, and a re-
spectable lien on Westralia, helps to explain
why its progress is so much better in the
Federal Upper House than in the Lower
one.
* * * *
One specific reason why Joseph Cook
should not be moved by his success to put
too large a feather in his belltopper
is the Referendum vote. That cannot
be affected by the intrusion of odd
Senatorial candidates like the three
hopeless Socialists in N.S.W., or the
Argus’s hopeless Freetrade candidate in Vic-
toria, or Symon in S.A., or the wonderful
Cyril St. Clair Cameron in Tasmania. It
isn’t influenced by the inequality which gives
six Senators to each State, large or small.
It is in no way affected by the fact that the
constituencies which elect members for the
House of Representatives range from over
41,400 electors in Victoria down to 17,800
in Tasmania. It takes no account of the
possible appearance of a third candidate for
the Representatives. The Referendum
stands for the principle of one adult one
vote, pure and simple And whether Labor
wins or loses on this issue—at time of going
to press the question wasn’t decided, but the
voting was remarkably close —the fact re-
mains that it has vastly improved its posi-
tion since the question was last submitted to
the electors. Desuite the Labor Government’s
miserable wobbling over the Northern Terri-
tory railway and Northern Territory land set-
tlement. —over the immigration question, and
the tariff, and the half-hearted Federal note
issue business, and despite all the discredit
which McGowen, Holman and Co. have
brought on the cause, Labor has progressed
immensely in the one matter on which the
Commonwealth can give an absolutely
straightforward verdict. Therefore, if J.
Cook is thinking of buying a big feather for
his political belltopper, he should reconsider
the situation. Perhaps a very small feather
will be sufficient.
[James Edmond, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
THE FRENZIED FINANCE OF N.S.W.
The N.S.W. State Government lately found
that the end of its career of frenzied finance,
so far as the frenzy could be conducted on
the old plain borrowing lines, was really in
sight. The joy couldn’t last for ever, and
the bottom fell out of the bottle that con-
tained the drunk. The State revenue, which
was not quite £14,000,000 for the year which
ended on 30th June, 1911, is coming in this
year (the year which will end on 30th June,
i 913) at the rate of about £15,500,000,
which increase should keep any ordinary
Government out of the Insolvency Court.
But State expenditure has been whooped up
so magnificently that it promises, when the
financial year ends, to be not far short of
£17,000,000. And the loan expenditure,
which was a fraction over £1,000,000 in
1906-7, and nearly £4,000,000 in 1910-11,
has risen on such glorious wings that for
the first eleven months of the year which
ends on 30th June, 1913, the figure was a
trifle over £8,000,000. The local money
market, which used to meet the demand for
loans in the days when N.S.W. had still
some shred of sanity about it, has long since
given up the effort. And Cohen in London
has demanded higher and higher rates of
interest, until at last Treasurer Cann fears
to go to him any longer lest the lender
should get down to plain pawnbroking
terms, and the borrower should fall into the
nethermost pit of discredit. All over the
State unfinished works are going slow, with
every prospect that they will presently go
slower. Men are being put off for lack of
money to pay them. The railways, which
were for years a splendid source of revenue
(from June, 1905, to June, 1912, they
showed a net profit varying from £384,980 to
£653,998 per annum), have now a deficit in
sight. Further taxation is declared to be
inevitable, though even if the income tax
were multiplied by three or perhaps four it
would hardly fill the prospective gap in the
finances. When the first 11 months of the
financial year find the outgoings on ordinary
account £1,700,000 ahead of the incomings
the orifice requires a lot of filling: And
Premier McGowen, having held office
strentiously while the boom lasted, proposes
to throw in his portfolio now that the burst
is in sight, even as Napoleon deserted his
tattered army on the back track from
Moscow.
* * * *
At this difficult moment the tail end of
the Government lately arose and stated that
it had devised a new method of raising the
wind. Premier McGowen had practically
retired from the wrath to come, and
Attorney-General Holman, who is to take
up the dropped and draggled sceptre, hadn’t
got from his holiday in England; so
the other members of the Cabinet ran things
among themselves in a friendly, haphazard
sort of way. It was Minister Griffith who
announced that a new borrowing or cadging
device—not a new device for making the
vast revenue cover the absurd and insane
expenditure—had come into his mind. Hear-
ing of this, people wondered whether it was
proposed to found a State lottery, or to sus-
pend payment of the interest on the public
debt, or to levy a forced loan, br to do some-
thing really remarkable. The Minister de-
clared that the marvellous fresh dodge was
to remain a dead secret until Parliament
met, and that the people, who have in the
long run to find the money and carry the
burden, were to remain, for the present, in
the dark. But apparently somebody burst
with self-importance by reason of the vast-
ness of the mystery, and strange stories began
to leak out. It is alleged that a great Eng-
lish contracting firm is to take over the job
of superintending railway construction in
N.S.W. and is to receive 5 per cent, on the
money expended. Therefore the more the
new railway costs the more money the Eng-
lish firm will get. Next —-so the story goes
—the English firm is to float the loans to
pay for the railways, the construction of
which it is to supervise at 5 per cent, on
cost. It is to float the loans at current
market rates, and N.S.W. is, of course, to
carry the responsibility and the interest bill.
Yet the only visible reason why the State
won’t float the loans itself is that the late
financial racket has run its credit so low
that the Treasurer is staggered at the very
sight of current market rates. It is prac-
tically certain that N.S.W. could get
another £100,000,000 in the course of a
very few years if it paid current rates—
which would probably rise to 10 per cent,
in the last stages of the transaction —and
then it wouldn’t require to give any middle-
men 5 per cent, on the cost of its new lines
as a sort of bonus. And N.S.W., borrowing
on its own account, would have every rea-
son to struggle for the last copper it could
get out of the market, while a middleman
firm, borrowing on N.S.W.’s account, would
have no such reason for strenuous exertion.
The proposition looks like the very last re-
sort in the way of frenzied finance. It sug-
gests a desperate attempt to make a private
capitalist, appear as the borrower instead
of the Government, and to appoint a private
capitalist as a sort of contractor or middle-
man or nigger driver in the matter of rail-
way construction because the Ministry has
lost faith in its day-labor system and lacks
the courage to say so.
* * * *
Minister Griffith has arisen, decorated
with some fragments of excitement, to say
that this published report of the financial
scheme which, he said, was to remain un-
published until the State Legislature met,
is inaccurate in many particulars. But up
to time of writing he has not stated why
his intensely secret proposition was allowed
to reach the press, nor has he mentioned in
what respects the report is inaccurate Th
financiers who are to do the work all 6
themselves to be interviewed freely Tt,
also state that the report is inaccurate hi
they put the fact very mildly, and the general
impression is that the inaccuracy 'only re
fers to some minor details. Two points’
however, seem to be certain. One is that
an English firm is to boss or supervise a
vast amount of railway and bridge con
struction in N.S.W. at a fairly high remune
ration. From that the public will infer that
the day-labor and State supervision system
which started so well, is now regarded as a
failure, and the only feasible explanation
which is likely to strike the public is that
the day-labor policy has been turned into a 1
political machine, and that Bill, the loafer
or Bill, the incompetent, has been allowed
to do much as he pleased under threat of
transferring his vote to the other side if he
w T as called upon for a fair day’s work. Bill
as a Laborite, could always hold that threat
over a Labor Government with a precarious
majority, while a Tory Government or a
private enterprise boss would view it quite
unmoved. Another point on which the re-
ports appear fairly unanimous is that the
English contracting firm is to act as agent
for floating the lOU in London. And
when the lOU has become so hard to float
that Treasurer Cann, the most level-headed
man in the Ministry, views the possible
terms with terror —well, the nroposed device
looks like a scheme for taking the loan
finances out of the control of the level-
headed Treasurer Cann, and allowing an
irresponsible party to have a shot at them.
In the case of any ordinary Government
this criticism might seem severe, but the
McGowen-llolman combination isn’t an
ordinary Government. There has been
nothing like it in Australia for profligacy
and utter shamelessness since Ministerial
responsibility was first invented. It at-
tained to office on a programme which in-
cluded, among its leading features, economy,
reduction of borrowing, and the proviso that
loan money should be expended only on
works which would return full interest and
a contribution to a sinking fund. With the
biggest revenue that any N.S.W. Govern-
ment ever possessed, it is building up the
most notable deficit in the State’s history.
So much for its economy. Instead of re-
stricting the loan disease it has increased
the public borrowings or pawnbrokery more
than 200 per cent. In place of using loan
money only for works that will pay full in-
terest and sinking fund, it has spent money
anywhere and anyhow, and reduced the
once highly profitable railway system to a
position in which it barely pays expenses.
Its decentralisation policy has proved a lie.
Its bargain with Speaker Willis —the bar-
gain by which it gained a temporary exten-
sion of its job and a temporary renewal
of its hold on the official salaries—that
it would attempt no contentious legislation,
and would make an early appeal to the elec-
tors, has proved a lie. Its pledge to aim
at the abolition of the useless State Gover-
nor and the useless State Upper House has
proved a lie; instead of dealing with these
excrescences it has made war on the Aus-
tralian Governor-General, which was no
part of its programme. Its method of pro-
viding for, or pacifying, its hostile sup-
porter Nielsen with a shadowy mission at
£4 a day was a thing that very few Cabinets
would have felt equal to. The proposed
flight of the Premier just when the bottom
is falling out of the show isn’t especially
creditable. And the latest device for raising
the wind is a matter that will require a
heap of explanation to make it look even
moderately respectable. One way and
another, the present N.S.W. State Ministry
appears to be about the most dreadful
political institution that Australia has been
afflicted with. And its most remarkable
feature is its lofty moral attitude, and its
professed inability to. realise that there is
anything wrong with it.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Free Hog.
President Wilson’s Government in the
United States may yet be known as die
Free Hog Administration. The in
crowd represents a minority, and it g
because the vast Protectionist majont.
split between Taft and Roosevelt.
tied to the old Freetrade or Stove State t
dition of the South, but it has httte visite
faith in ks own position. Still it »
called upon to do something, in defence o
its principles, so President Wilson ha
dared for the free importation of wheat,
oats, meat, cattle, sheep and hogs,
is exactly the same as if an Australian
trade Government declared for the free
portation of gold, eucalyptus, wool, wombats
and kangaroos; or an African Government
took the duty off elephants; or an Egyp
Ministry put crocodiles and pyramids
the free list. All the articles mentioned
are in short supply the whole world
nowadays. No one wants to rush the ■• •
with a multitude of imported hog. Fatne ,
a hog-eating globe, which cant get e TT Jv
food, is kneeling on the doormat of T
Sam and crying out: “Give us I ork.
one has dreamt for many years pas
sending wheat or oats, or meat or catt
sheep or liogs to the United States. 1>« ,
of the human race has none to spare-
great fear is that the U.S. won t have e
spare wheat and hog to send to it. ,
duties as regards these articles re n
on the U.S. tariff list because they were tor
gotten, just as the old British law
boiling the person who tried to kidnap
outrage a queen remained in the t> -
criminal code. The time when a giea
dal baron might prig a queen is so , ,
pletely gone that it wasn’t worth anybody
while to repeal the tattered enactment,
time would be better spent at the P
show. The spectacle of President WiLSo,
proposing, in the glorious name of kre ’
to open the U.S. ports to. the superfluous
wheat and superabundant pig of Ung
humorous. If he proposed to abolish the im
port duties on manufactured g° od | ,“ 0 e t m T j
seem sincere, but even the madd. •
Freetrader doesn’t feel like that.
proposed free admission of wheat api 1
this country in a theoretical sort ’
and it can’t do less than respond by -
ing the import charge of 6d. per squa
on emus.


Our Immorality.
“Jean Sibi” : I lifted the following from, the
Argus report of the proceedings in the
Melb. Presbyterian Assembly the other day :
Principal Aiken, of Ridley Church of England
College, considered that the figures relative to
illegitimacy, profligacy and divorce showed the need
for the inculcation of the Bible in the minds of the
children, so that they could be guarded from the
dangerous evils of the future.
One would think from this remark that
Australia was a country where the seducee
was uncommonly prevalent, and the ille-
gitimate a thriving public institution. Yet
a glance at the figures that follow, show-
ing the birthrate per 1000 unmarried
females in various countries, demonstrates
that our continent is not so dreadful. The
figures are for the triennial stretch 1900-2,
the latest period for which Knibbs has been
able to get complete figures :
Austria .. 40.1 France . . 19.1 Switzerland 9.8
German Maoriland 8.9
Empire . . 27.4 Belgium . . 17.8 England &
Sweden .. 24.3 Norway . . 17.2 Wales . . 8.5
Denmark . 24.2 Spain . . 15.5 Netherlands 6.8
Russia . . 23.7 Scotland . 13.4 Ireland . . 3.8
Italy . . 19.4 C’wealth . 13.3
Considering that Australia is twelfth on
the dishonors list of seventeen countries,
and that, further, its percentage of un-
married to married births has dropped from
6.23 in 1906 to 5.84 in 1910, this continent
can’t monopolise the pedestal for profligacy.
As regards divorce, there are few avail-
able figures to suggest how far we have to
climb to become the Horrible Example; but,
at any rate, we are improving—if it is an
improvement to keep people hobbled
together who would be happier and pro-
bably far more useful citizens if they were
untied. According to the valuable Knibbs
aforesaid, the average annual total of
divorces and judicial separations had crept
from 358 for the decennial period 1891-1900
to 401 for 1901-10. Contrast those figures
with the average annual population for the
same times and you get the following re-
sults :
Average Average Annual No.
Annual Divorces and Jud. per
Population. Separations. 1000.
Period 1891-1900 3,469,438 358 0.13
„ 1901-1910 4,074,466 401 0.09
Still I hope Principal Aiken will pray for
us—that is, if he can find time after pray-
ing for such highly respectable countries as
Austria, Germany, Sweden, Denmark, and
even puir auld Scotland, all of which have
had Bible reading and civilization much
longer than we.
4
A State where the Referenda Never Had
a Fair Deal.
The undersigned writes :
The Fisher Government’s Referenda proposals have
been beaten badly in N. S. Wales; and when all the
circumstances are taken into consideration there is
nothing astonishing about the occurrence. There
was not a single daily paper of any consequence
that had a good word to say for them. The State
Labor leaders kept warily silent on this question for
the most part, and the "few favorable remarks that
they did make were about as illuminating as a
Scotch mist. W. M. Hughes, the one powerful
advocate that the cause possessed, allowed himself to
be diverted repeatedly from the useful work of ex-
pounding the general principles involved, into profit-
less controversies on fine legal points (for example,
the question of the uses to which the 1910 Anti-
Trust Act had been put by his Government) —highly
technical, and also more or less irrelevant matters
in which the electors took no particular interest and
which they were incapable of understanding, in about
90 per cent, of cases, even if they had happened to
be absorbed in, them. The allegedly gagged and
muzzled metropolitan papers thundered tirelessly on
behalf of complete inaction, as they have always done
at the first sight of anything new in the political
line. And prominent Liberals surpassed some of
their finest previous efforts in the way of misrepre-
sentation. Most of the latter begin to look pretty
garish and shoddy now that the tumult and shout-
ing have died down. Consider the following typical
collection of “arguments” which J. H. Carruthers
weighed in with in the closing stages of the cam-
paign -
“Does the publican know that if these resolutions
be carried the Federal Parliament may pass a law
and go one better than the State Parliament, and
have State local option or State no-license?
“Can you trust another Parliament to supersede
your early closing and arbitration laws and give
you others in their place?
“Do the small shopkeepers or their employees
think that it will be a good thing to wipe out the
authority of the State?
“You may be an auctioneer and sell goods as part
of your business. Do you think you should have to
send to the Federal city for your license and be
under Federal laws as to how you will carry on your
business ?
“You may be a mere fruit hawker or a road ped-
lar. Are you aware that the grab-net provisions of
the Referenda embrace your humble callings?
“Just as surely as a woman, a British subject, and
her children born in Australia, are being sent out of
Australia under the ‘aliens’ laws of the Common-
wealth.
“So surely you may expect that the Federal Par-
liament will have its" full ounce of flesh under the
new powers which it seeks.”
Plain idiocy, of course, but that was a detail in
a State which had every organ of popular opinion
on the side of Conservatism. There are Parliaments
all over the world which have power to do every
kind of suicidally foolish thing imaginable. But
they don’t. Thus the House of Commons may super-
sede the law of the land, 'if it thinks fit, or deprive
a citizen of every farthing -he possesses. It is exer-
cising the first of these powers at the present time.
The firm to which Stuart Samuel, M.P., belongs
bought silver for the Indian Government; and
Samuel voted ,in a number of divisions after the
purchases were made, thus rendering himself liable,
legally, for a vast sum in fines. As it was obvious
that he had not acted corruptly the House is putting
through a Bill to relieve him of these penalties.
Similarly it might pass an Act relieving a man of
any other liability, no matter how well-earned. Of
coiirse it never will so long as it stays sane. A
couple of hundred years ago an English Parliament
nearly confiscated a man’s property; or in other
words, it was on the verge of doing what Carru-
Theks and other Anti-Referenda-ites asserted confi-
dently last month our Parliament would do, for cer-
tain, if it was given fresh powers. One Duncombe,
M.P., had stolen large sums of public money, by for-
gery and fraud in general. But as the law stood
then it was practically impossible to sheet home a
legal offence in his case—just as to-day it is prac-
tically impossible here to prove “intent,” within the
meaning of the 1910 Anti-Trust Act, in the case of
a local trust. In a desperate effort to mete out jus-
tice to Duncombe a Bill of Pains and Penalties was
introduced which, had it been passed, would have
eased him of about half a million sterling. It never
was passed, for the simple reason that, what may
be called the collective conscience of every rational
legislature must always be opposed, not only to in-
justice, and particularly vindictive injustice, but
even to the appearance of anything of the sort. The
politicians who laid it down that the Australian Par-
liament if it was given the powers requisite to
enable it to pass (say) a Companies Act, would
surely have its “full ounce of flesh,” and force
auctioneers and fruit hawkers and road pedlars to
send to Melbourne for their licenses, knew that they
were retailing rank imbecilities, not to say lies.
However, they persevered with them, chiefly because
they were in the comfortable position of having no
effective contradiction to fear. Plainly the National-
ist cause will never have much hope in N. S. Wales
so long as it is possible for the electors to be stam-
peded by the unworthy tactics that were employed
last month—which is another powerful argument for
the establishment of some sort of radical daily.
[John Bede Dallet, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
-
Maoriland’s Liquor Comedy.
That popular comedy in Maoriland, No-
license, continues its long run amidst the
increased joy and jag of the inhabitants.
Twenty years ago the show commenced with
the closing of the pubs in the Clutha dis-
trict, and since then the slamming of
Bung’S doors has resounded in a dozen dis-
tricts in both islands. The howls of Bung
for a while were like the howls of the Devil,
but by-ahd-bye he (Bung) began to dis-
cover that business was improving instead
of falling away', and in his excitement he
mentioned the matter in a hoarse whisper.
The derision that thereupon fell upon him
from the Cold Water theorists was stupen-
dous. They urged him, if he was so satis-
fied with the pbsitjem* to wheel into their
procession and help roll the old Vinegar
waggon along Some more; and if Bung
actually didn’t do that, he did practically
nothing to coax back the tremendously in-
creasing vote against him. He didn’t im-
prove his knowledge regarding the breaking
down of cheap bulk liquors; he refrained
from toadying to the travelling public by
improving his accommodation for man, beast
and tourist; be didn’t reduce the price of
drinks, nor hesitate to sell twopenny cigars
at 6d. a cabbage stalk; he was glad to see
old friends, but if they weren’t cash cus-
tomers his time was limited. In short, the
last thing he could be charged with was
any appearance of taking an unfair advan-
tage of the party that was helping to im-
prove trade and brighten the outlook of
things generally. The reward of his un-
selfishness is that between 1893, when the
first district was fenced round with a blue
ribbon, and 1912, when twelve districts had
fallen before the onslaughts of the deluded
theorists, the bulk drink bill had doubled.
Soon after the Clutha bars were dismantled
the drink bill for the State totalled
£2,265,900; the total for 1912 (just com-
piled) was £4,081,162. To prove that the
increase is not all a population increase,
there are the per capita figures. In 1895
the booze account per individual was
£3 os. 5d.; in 1912 it was £3 14s. ll|d. (an
increase, incidentally, of 2s. sd. per person
over the bill of 1911). It is a great record
of hiccup and misplaced enthusiasm.
«
A Sydney Telegraph writer had the follow-
ing strenuous objections to lodge against the
Constitution when the Senate results were
known: —
The system under which such a state of things is
possible must, from the democratic standpoint, be
radically wrong. The Senate is supposed not to repre-
sent political parties, but to represent the rights of
the States as States. That is the theory upon which
the States were given equal representation. But
when they elect their Senators on ordinary party
lines as they do, the Senate ceases to be what the
Constitution intended. To prevent it from assuming
this anomalous character is, however, under the pre-
sent Constitution manifestly impossible.
The root of the trouble is in the Constitutional
provision which gives the smallest State the same
representation in the Senate as the largest, while the
House of Representatives is elected on a basis of
man for man throughout the whole Commonwealth.
And the mischief of it is that this anomaly has
been so deeply embedded in the Constitution that
it cannot be got out in the way that other amend-
ments may be made, etc.
Yet, only last month, Liberalism was argu-
ing heatedly that a Constitution which had
only been in existence for 13 years should
not be touched. Numbers of great names
were quoted-— Bryce and Haldane and
Chamberlain and Asquith. Liberalism
argued from the 13-year-old views of these
authorities that it would amount to an im-
pertinence, almost, if the Government’s
amendments, or any of them, were carried.
And, finally, invidious distinctions were
drawn between the vast intellectual calibre
of the great men who had framed the Consti-
tution, and the despicable understandings of
those who were striving to “overthrow” it.
As has been remarked in this paper before,
the Constitution, when it left the hands of its
framers, looked as unimpeachable as Bryce
and Asquith and the others said it was.
The eating years, and the High Court, and
the Party Government system, and other
factors, have combined to prove that appear-
ances were deceptive.
[John Bede Dalley, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
-♦
The N.S.W. railways threaten to show a
deficit this fiscal year, which ends on June
30; so the boom didn’t have to do much
breaking before the mad policy of borrow
and bulge began to gibber at the public.
State Labor had virtuous ideas about bor-
rowing only for works that would pay in-
terest and provide 1 per cent, for a sinking
fund ; but though the boom has only begun
to crack already, the most profitable of the
loan undertakings can’t even pay the inter-
est. The Labor Government isn’t, how-
ever, the only party to blame: “Liberals”
have talked just as glibly about “the mag-
nificent asset of our railways,” and pointed
to seven annual railway surpluses running,
four of them exceeding half-a-million each,
and they haven’t mentioned the dreadful
deficits of 1905 and 1904, and 1903 and all
the previous years—some of them years
when the magnificent asset didn’t earn 3
per cent. The paper or the politician that
thinks a railway revenue is normal during
a borrowing boom isn’t safe to be at large.
If a bush publican borrowed £lO.OOO, and
incidentally hired 50 “boots” and 27 rouse-
abouts and an army of other people to spend
it on. the chances are that the beer-pump
would have to work overtime and the tak-
ings would be colossal. But if next year
he told the Bankruptcy Court that he
thought the colossal takings were going to
continue after the £lO,OOO was all gone, and
accordingly plunged afresh, an amazed
judge would tell him he was a dangerous
fool who would be safer without a certificate.
Griffith and the others who borrow mil-
lions because the other millions they’ve
borrowed boosted the revenue are precisely
the same kind of fool.
Sad stories of women who couldn’t be
bothered to vote, on account of the weather,
are going the rounds of the politest Liberal
circles. Even in the Toorakian section of
the Fawkner electorate, there wasn’t much of
an “awakening” of Liberalism anion" the
Sex, it seems. The silly creatures couldn’t
be persuaded that the country would go
to Nicodemus if they persisted in staying
at home out of the wet. They refused to
be roused to patriotism by the toot-topts of
the motahs that were working for Mr. Fair-
bairn. Doctors tell how some of their
very best lady patients didn’t seem to care a
row of pins whether the Labor man got in
or not. Instead of looking at the danger
which was staring the country in the face,
they just peeped at the weather and stopped
at home. One doctor complains that 37
women on his little list of FAiRBAiRN-ites
went back on their promise to vote. At one
house, where there were five women on the
roll, he couldn’t get one of them to go to the
front door and be persuaded. He toot-tooted
in vain. At last they all put their heads out
of the window and cried: “O doctor, you
don’t expect us to go out on a day like
this !”
[Edmund Fisher, The Bulletin Office, 369 Col-
lins-street, Melbourne.]
During the recent election campaign, when
the harried political writer had to put his
name and address at the foot of his efforts,
a member of The Bulletin staff remarked
that Tattersall’s sweep was an interest-
ing example of the way an individual State
could take a trust to its bosom and cherish
it, regardless of the annoyance of the rest of
the Federation. By return of post, so to
speak, he got an almost affectionate letter
from one who subscribed himself “Yours
sincerely, W. 11. Gough.” A “scale of
charges” was enclosed, together with the
following soothing intimation :
I am an accredited agent, and clients are assured
that there is no risk to them in transacting business
with me on account of Tattersall’s, as the lottery
is legalised in Tasmania.
The scale of charges showed that for a mere
ss. lOd. one could get a ss. ticket in the big
sweep. The interesting thing about Tat-
tersall’s is that it is where it is in frank
defiance of the Australian Parliament. Par-
liament has declared this particular lottery
to be nationally undesirable. It has suc-
ceeded in chasing it off the mainland. But
one State —Tasmania—has been found that
was willing to harbor it. As Mr. W, H.
Gough puts it, “the lottery is legalised in
Tasmania.” The position is the same as
though N. S. Wales legislated to suppress
“two-up,” but Manly—being autonomous —
decided that a herd of “two-up” schools
would mean profit to the district, and so
told N.S.W. to go to blazes and encouraged
“two-uppers” for all it was worth. And just
as Tattersall’s can register in and operate
from Tasmania over the whole of the Com-
monwealth, so a Beef Trust or an Oil Trust
or any other undesirable combine may, un-
der existing circumstances, do the same.
Undesirable Trusts are being harbored along
these lines in the United States by half a
dozen States already, and the same thing wijl
occur here in due course. The present posi-
tion is that Australia’s only safeguard
against exploitation by any predatory con-
cern that comes along lies in the patriotic
self-denial of individual States. And the
experience of decades goes to show that
where the concern interested has big money
to spend within the confines of the State,
such a safeguard does not amount to a two-
foot fence.
[Written by John Bede Dallet, The Bulletin
Office, Sydney, under a momentary delusion that the
compulsory signing foolishness was over.]
♦
Joe Cook, telling his Parramatta constitu-
ents about the great Liberal victory, was
horrified at Fisher’s latest “choice speci-
men.” Fisher had casually mentioned that
people were paying tribute to those who
should not get it. “Who,” demanded
Cook, “are these people?” and he was good
enough to say that it was “criminal for a
responsible statesman” to say such things.
Proceeding with his text, Cook said that
Labor forgets the tremendous part which
“intelligence” plays in production. So it
does; but Cook forgets more completely the
tremendous slice of profits that men get
who don’t contribute either labor or intelli-
gence. What, for example, of the man
who buys a block of land somewhere or other
and does nothing with it until other people
give it 100 or 1000 times its old value,
whereupon he lets it on a building lease?
What labor or intelligence does he supply
to the production of the tribute money he
exacts from the lessee? Also, when a man
speculated £2OOO in a ferry co.’s shares 10
years ago, and threw the scrip into a safe,
and to-day draws as much as 100 per cent ,
per annum, on his £2OOO, what intelligence
did he supply towards earning the 100 per
cent.? No quite sane person wants to under-
pay intelligence; the worst curse of modern
conditions is that intelligence is starved
worse than labor, because mere Fat collars a
great part of what should go into Intelli-
gence’s pocket—and Intelligence is then ex-
pected to say that his robber is his friend.
[S. H. Prior, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
__ *
Some of the remarks which Arbitration Jus-
tice Heydon (N.S.W.) made to the lawyer
who spoke for the Manly ferry boat strikers
were uttered with a brick, but no one could
say that the brick wasn’t well deesrved. The
astounding plea put forward was that,
though the defendants had arrived at an
agreement with their company, and pro-
fessed no special grievance of their own, and
were pledged not to strike —still if they
didn’t strike in company with the Sydney
Ferries men, who had a genuine grievance,
“they would have been subjected to all
sorts of ridicule.” In other words, an
amazing and disastrous gentleman tried to ‘
set it forth that unless the Manly'ferry men
showed themselves breakers of faith, and
persons with whom it was useless to make
an agreement because their word was value-
less,. their comrades—being a low-down lot
and incapable of appreciating honesty and
fair-dealing—would subject them to annoy-
ance and persecution. It didn’t seem a very
well-selected plea or one calculated to im-
prove the position, and Justice Heydon
said so with unobtrusive frankness. When
he really sits up and gets into motion, un-
obtrusive frankness is one of Mr.
strong points.
The Cowkiss.
AN EDITORIAL INTERVIEW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Everyone round here is bankrupt. All the stores
are closing down, and the big firm of Blank and Co.
smashed up. If one gets anything now in the grocery
line, it’s cash up. Farmers are forced to sell out
for what the places will bring, and a lot who took
up land recently have left it through the proposed
cursed Labor Land Laws. In explanation, I may
add that about the middle of January last I arrived
here a complete wreck. I have gained 301 b.
in weight since, going from Bst. 61b. to lOst. 81b.
Nervous breakdown followed other ailments, chiefly
from the effects of struggling against Labor Rule
and Trades Hall tyranny.—JDlybrius Q. Brown,
Hanko Vale. —Victorian paper.
Friends ! a tale of fire and slaughter—
“ Things ain’t now, sir, what they orter,”
Groaned Olybrius. "Beers is shorter,
And a pint don’t hold a quarter
What it did when I was young.
And I sez, sir, to me naber:
‘What! Me vote fer bloomin’ Labor?
Ain’t I writin’ to the paper
That’s the News’ —it made him caper—
‘How the firms is all gone bung?’
“Hoo ! yer want ter know me story—
How that Cowkiss, wild and gory,
Crowned me brow with fame and glory?—
Shakes me hand, sir, does each Tory,
And I’m gainin’ strength and weight;
Sir, yer see me, just a shadder—
I was bustid like a bladder
By that Cowkiss, which was madder
Than Ole Nick—-it makes me gladder,
This here story to relate!”
Then Olybrius waved his Argus—
“ Sir,” he quavered, “here the mark is
Where that Cowkiss bit me carkiss —
Like a dingo’s yowl its bark is—-
See ! it chewed me sufferin’ chest;
That there Cowkiss is a warnin’
What we’ve come to —just this mornin’:
‘lt’s a frightful world we’re born in,’
I remarks. Me naber, scornin’,
Shouts : ‘Hoo ! Give them Lib’rals best!’
“When I ups and tells that party
How the Cowkiss makes its dart —he
Scoffs out loud, so rude and hearty.
That I turns and leaves that smarty
Grinnin’ at his milkin’-bail;
Sir, he don’t believe me letter
Ter the News—this Labor fetter
Makes yer perspiration wetter —-
Well, poor cove, he knows no better—
I’m the pride of Hanko Vale!
“And this tale, sir? You shall hear it—
Thanks ! I’ll try a leetle spirit—
Whisky neat, or pretty near it;
Sir, I say it’s very queer—it
Makes a feller fairly shake;
Here’s yer health, Sir —ah, that cheers me !
When this tale of mine appears, me
Naber Jim will lift his ears —me
Word is pledged, this ain’t no fake!
“That there Cowkiss from Canbarrer
I had read of, chilled me marrer;
Fust of April, sir, this Terror
Wrecked me nerves, sir—make no error,
Fust of April, that’s the date ;
After cow-time with me dawg, sir,
I sits down beside a lawg, sir,
Clost beside a quarkin’ frawg, sir—
Marvel I’m not in the Morgue, sir—
And begins ter cogitate !
“Thinkin’ ’ard, sir, ’urts yer brain, sir—
It’s a fearful mental strain, sir—
’Ow you chaps—thanks ! Same again, sir—
Whisky neat, that stops the pain, sir—
And, ter tell the truth, I slep’;
Of that Cowkiss I was thinkin’,
’Ow the Argus says it’s slinkin’
After dark —firom daylight shrinkin’—
And me eyelids gits ter blinkin’
Till that Cowkiss makes its lep !
“Sir, I hears an awful roarin’
Which disturbs me from me snorin’
By that lawg, sir—flames was pourin’—-
’Tain’t no lawng bow that I’m drorin’ —
‘Tell ther truth, Olybrius 8..
Stick ter truth and shame ole Nick, sir—
Tell the truth and tell it quick, sir ;
Lies ’ll make yer mighty sick, sir—-
Try a taste of this here stick, sir’ —-
That’s me father’s talk ter me !
“So —yes, thank yer, sir! no soder! —
I could smell a fearful hoder
When I wakes, and then, I’m blowed ! a
liegler flarin’ mad breech-loader
Of a Fiend lept in full blast:
Flames was pourin’ as I said, sir,
From this dreadful creechur’s head, sir—
It was green and puce and red, sir—
And I gasps there, flat, half-dead, sir;
‘lt’s ther Cowkiss come at last!’
“Horns and tail and all it had, sir—
It was simply rampin’ mad, sir;
Shirt and pants I was just clad, sir—
On the chest it bites me bad, sir—
And I gives a fearful yell;
‘Hoo,’ I hollers, then I screeches
Then I howls, and then beseeches
With me eyes shut —wisdom teaches
Not ter 100k —me shoutin’ reaches
Right unto this same Hotel!
“Then ther Cowkiss, red and flamin’
Like the Fiend, sir, I was namin’.
Gives a roar, then clears —like Haman.
Hang them Labor fellers, claimin’
That this Cowkiss does no ’arm ;
Well, me wife, sir, leads me back, sir;
Heard me screechin’ —that’s a fac , sir
Sees ther Cowkiss, red-and-black, sir—
I can point yer out its track, sir.
By that lawg, sir, on me farm !
“That’s the truth, sir l— l’m a shadder ;
Ain’t got stren’th ter lift a ladder,
And I’m wiser, sir. and sadder —
I can see that Cowkiss, madder
With its blazin’ horns and tail :
Lost me crop, sir? Couldn t plough it
Thanks! I’ll taste a leetle now at
Makes me fear ter milk a cow. It
Wrecked me system, sir—that s how it
Kep me back at Hanko A ale.
Thus Olybrius—and his story,
Stripped, dismantled of its glory,
• Shows, in place of Cowkiss gory,
One Lone Cow, with whiskers hoary,
After sunset, gazing late
At the headlights of a motor
On the hillside, whilst a voter
Tells a “bushed” statistics-quoter:
“Fust turn-off ver p-otter go ter
With that Lib’ral candidate !
Ofae Lone Cow, perturbed, inquiring;
Headlight’s glare, immense, inspiring—
Leaking petrol, car back-firing—
Cow uneasy, all perspiring,
Filled with wonder and with fright;
Cow advances —draws still nearer—
Tastes the petrol, thinks it queerer;
Biffs one headlight—flame burns clearer —
Loud explosion !—cow’s a steerer
Towards Olybrius, blazing bright!
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.


THE POLICY OF THE GOVERNMENT
I Esieb 1768 1
Estab 1742
IS BACKED BY THE SOUND
JUDGMENT OF THE PEOPLE.
"A WHITE AUSTRALIA
. . .and ...
“MACKIE’S
WHITE HORSE WHISKY.
A GRAND DOUBLE.
sdh
NEWSPICTURES !
NEWSPICTURES!
Newspictures are now as common as newspapers.
To the patrons of our theatres the newspictures
(called “Gazettes,” “Topicals,” etc.) are a source
of never-failing delight and information. * 0
event of importance escapes the moving pietur
reporter nowadays.
Keep informed on world topics by seeing them at
our theatres
Lyric Theatre, Sydney.
Britannia Theatre, Melbourne.
WILLIAM B. MILLER , Gen’l Manager.
WHERE
EVERYBODY
GOES
Oub trustworthy friend and ally the Jap.
has been again heard from. This time it is
a special correspondent of the S. M. Herald
in China who tells the tale: —
Dr. Sun Yat Sen spoke freely about an entente
with Japan, but all the time Japan is increasing her
hold of Southern Manchuria. She has flung out her
railway as far as Mukden from Korea, and her troops
are stationed along the line. She had China’s per-
mission to lay a light railway through Manchuria,
in order to send her troops and supplies to the
front during her war with Russia. The war is past;
but her light railway has been converted into a well-
laid permanent one, and she has thrown over the
broad Yalu an immense bridge of nearly a mile in
length, built entirely by Japanese engineers, and one
of the greatest bridge-constructing feats in the
world. Japan has not done this from philanthropy
to Manchuria as a part of the Chinese Empire. It
will need a very genuine entente to prevent South-
ern Manchuria from passing under the mailed hand
that grips Korea.
Has Japan ever anj/thing but ulterior
motives in its friendships and alliances?
♦
When M'Grath was fighting for the Bal-
larat (Vic.) seat he told one of his meetings
that Labor gets only 6s. Bd. out- of every
£ it produces, and is now looking for the
other 13s. 4d. Ballarat is about the last
place in the Commonwealth where
M‘Grath’s allegation would strike the
workers very forcibly. Local experience has
taught them that in the profitless gold-
mining industry, for the past many years,
the workers have received a good deal more
than 33 per cent, of the money value of
their productions. The miner in many
cases, is a hard worker, who spends his
strength and ruins his health in earning
wages that are a dead loss to Capital. A
terrible lot of Ballarat toil has produced
nothing save a small mountain of worthless
dirt. It has been a consumer of wealth,
not a creator. If all the old call-making
mines were closed down to-morrow and the
non-productive workers were put on top of
the earth, instead of being sent to struggle
in its unwholesome bowels, the country
would be the gainer.
Holman, local Attorney-General in N.S.W.,
as soon as he got back from the Big Smoke,
told an interviewer what a shame it was
the mailboats were so slow that an aspiring
politician cannot make the trip Bullward
and back much under six months, if he
allows himself a reasonable time to see the
sights, and respond properly to the bland-
ishments of his many entertainers. The
Sydney Tei.egraph jumped at the chance
Holman offered, and poured forth the vials
of its remedy :
Competition, if left free, will see to it that the
quickest boats which it will pay to run are em-
ployed. The best way of inducing steamship com-
panies to increase the speed of their boats, therefore,
is to remove as many impediments as possible to our
oversea trade. When that reaches a volume sufficient
to make the running of faster boats commercially
possible, it will become, by the law of supply and
demand, commercially imperative.
What a shockingly bad memory the old
paper must have to forget the evidence
Chief Commissioner Johnson, of the
N.S.W. Railways, gave before the late
British Trade Commission in Sydney:—
I had the greatest possible difficulty in getting quo-
tations for 30,000 tons of steel rails from the Old
Country, of which the Steel Company of Scotland
has now got the order for 16,000 tons. .. .Owing to
thq Rail ’ Ring, which will be quite familiar to Mr.
Lorimer, I had the greatest difficulty to get a quota-
tion. 1 asked for quotations in America, and I had
the greatest difficulty, because there is an arrange-
ment between them and the European manufacturers.
If that is how “Competition” and the “Law
of Supply and Demand” work in the steel
trade, how does the Telegraph know they
would work any better in the shipping
trade? It would be just as easy to have an
arrangement among steamer cos. not to run
their boats over a certain speed, as an
arrangement to limit the price and output
of steel rails. The rule of trade in the
present day is to abolish Competition and
the Law-of-supply-and-demand, and substi-
tute combination.
[J. Reid, 179 Bourke-street, Darlinghurst.]
In Melbourne, nowadays, the police have
pretty well given up trying to find the folk
who burgle other people’s houses, and are
absorbed in a gory fight to prevent being
burgled themselves. And they don’t always
succeed. The city of Murray had nearly
100 unexplained robberies last week, in-
cluding a steal worth £l2 from the house
of a senior-constable. Next time the bur-
glars come they will probably steal the
senior-cop himself.
A cablegram of last week mentioned with
tears that Miss Christina Addie, a descend-
ant of General Wolfe, the victor of Quebec,
died recently in London, after subsisting for
a while on an allowance of Bs. per week
from the Female Aid Society. It is a
pathetic case, even apart from the fact that
there is no reason to believe that Wolfe was
ever married or left any children. But,
unhappily, the world isn’t rich enough to
pension all the descendants of notable
men, including those who hadn’t any.
Quite a lot of the descendants of Adam and
his first wife Lilith are struggling for a
crust to-day, and getting scant sympathy.
And if Adam —the only first man on record
—wasn’t a notable person, what is a notable
person?
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Midsummer Night’s Dream.”
Her Majesty’s “The Count of Luxembourg.”
Criterion “Excuse Me.”
Palace The Grafters.
Adelphi “Girl Who Knew a Bit.”
Tivoli Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Little Theatre “Bobby Burnit.”
National Amphitheatre Brennan's Vaudeville Co.
Alhambra Vaudeville.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric )
Colonial j- Continuous Pictures.
Empress J
Crystal Palace Continuous Pictures, etc.
Olympia West's Pictures.
Town Hall David Bispham.
Imperial Roller Rink. Roller Skating.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Miss Hook of Holland.”
Princess’s “‘Beggar Girl’s Wedding."
King’s “The Native Born.”
Royal “Within the Law.”
Opera House Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer's Pictures.
Lyric, Prahran. . . Photo Plays.
Majestic Amalgamated Pictures.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
The Auditorium Tokio Town.
In “Excuse Me,” the Pullman car
comedy now running from the prompt side
to the O.P. side of Sydney Criterion, the
author has made much use of the theo-
retical fourth side of the stage. What we
see on the stage is merely a three-walled
room, the fourth having been removed in
order that we may see a>t all. Jerome
K. Jerome, in “The Passing of the Third
Floor Back,” indicated this fourth wall by
the device of a fender in front of the foot-
lights, facing which the characters warmed
their hands at the imaginary fireplace situ-
ated on top of the conductor’s head. Rupert
Hughes, in “Excuse Me,” indicated in a
similar manner the fourth wall of his Pull-
man car. His characters open imaginary
windows, fooling with invisible catches. One
puts his head out of an imaginary window
and his cap is promptly blown off into the
wings. Another leans out and gets an
■imaginary cinder in his eye. And, finally,
one Throws a gold bangle through a non-
existent window, right into the audience.
But the device fails when one of the char-
acters wants to hang up his hat. He is
sitting on the invisible side of the car, but
he doesn’t attempt to hang his hat on an
imaginary peg in the imaginary wall.
He crosses to the other wall and
suspends it there. The trouble is
that it is a real hat, and it is difficult to
put a material tile on an imperceptible peg
in a wall that is the airy fabric of a dream.
“Excuse Me” is full of theatrical clever-
nesses such as these, but it has not the grip
of the two other comedies produced by this
admirable company.
“A MIDSUMMER NIGHTS DREAM,"
AT SYDNEY ROYAL.
Starveling (R. F. Anson j acting the part of
Moon, and Snug (Gordon Harker) the lion
impersonator.
The curtain will be finally rung down on
“Fanny’s First Play” next Saturday night,
and on Monday evening Sydney’s Little
Theatre will scintillate with the light of
Winchel Smith’s intellectuality. Winch,
has already made a name for himself with
“Brewster’s Millions” and “The Fortune
Hunter,” but when Hugh Buckler, Violet
Paget and the rest of the boys let him loose
next week with “Bobby Burnit” his past
popularity is expected to be no more than
the cork of last night’s champagne.-
* * *
For Twelve Nights Only,
“The Girl Who Knew a Bit.”
Thus the Sydney Adelphi ad. But it
overstates the case. As a matter of fact,
the piece lasts only 3 hours 25 mins. But
when you’ve had nearly 3$ hours of melo-
drama in an advanced stage of old age and
overwork, you cease to wonder that the ad.-
writer becomes reckless. Any self-respect-
ing audience would go home perfectly satis-
fied after the heroine had been drugged,
thrown into a cellar with an armed maniac,
shipwrecked, made the victim of a faked
wedding certificate fraud, and been on the
point of being kidnapped by the villain.
But when the author keeps going and at-
tempts to murder her on a raft, do for her
on a lonely island where she and several
drunken sailors and several bags of bad
people have landed from the wreck, and
finally does his best to blow her up in a
shipping disaster brought about by the
prize ruffian, it becomes wearisome. Even
then he probably would have had her buried
alive, lynched, eaten four times by canni-
bals and then roasted alive had this country
not decided to close all theatres on Sunday.
The only other excuse the writer can think
of on behalf of the author is that he was
getting old and wanted to exhaust his sup-
ply of horrors before he died. This par-
ticular heroine, who goes through more in
those 3+ hours than most people would if
they had 10 lives to do it in, begins as a
flower seller; but when she is found to be
an heiress her troubles arise and spread and
multiply. However, in the end —to be
exact, at 11.22 p.m.—the usual several
policemen wander on, and the limelight man
turns his attention to the blushing prin-
cipals in the centre of the stage. Yera
Remee, as the much knocked about heroine,
and Roy Redgrave, as “my eero,” are the
two most successful characters; but Miss
Harrie Ireland and W. Dalgleish as the
evil-doers are sufficiently wicked and insane
to provide the author with an excuse for
letting the job last an hour longer than
would otherwise be a fair thing.
** # *
The wind seemed to think it was a tre-
mendous joke; and so it was. If Pro-
vidence and the actor-manager could have
collaborated, the critic would never have
had to set out to see “A Midsummer Night’s
Dream” on a streaming night in June, with
the wind devils shrieking in from a hidden
sea that roared like forty-mine thousand
lions, and rolled like all the drums that
have been beaten and burst since Man first
discovered that out of skin, wind and wood
came the most terrifying and savagely im-
pressive noise. (Here the critic casts his
umbrella from him with a shudder, tears
off his goloshes, hangs up his -coat and hat,
and, in a damp state, paddles into Sydney
Royal and Oscar Asche’s version of the
fairy play.) Knowing your Asche, you go
expecting a good dealj and being the same
old gorgeous Asche, he gives you all you
expected and a little more. This not being
the official lily-painting column, the ques-
tion of production is hereby declared satis-
factorily disposed of. Asche, as Bottom,
follows W. H. Denny, who came and went,
after making a sizeable impression, a whole
ten years ago. He works more humor into
the part than Denny did and with rather
less trouble. Lily Brayton. as Helena,
earns her usual allowance of two laurel
leaves. Verdict: Successful without being
sensational. Olive Noble, in Hippolyta’s
hunting dress, is one of ' the statuesque
visions of the production. Lilian Birtles
(Titania. Queen of the Fairies) and
Florrie Allen (Puck) are also dainty recol-
lections. Asche’s idea of having a man
(H. R. Hignett) as Oberon, King of the
Fairies, collides with stage tradition —often
a very snake-headed thing—and a lot of
people seem to have taken it terribly to
heart. None of the objectors seem to be
quite clear as to why the King shouldn’t
be a he-monarch, instead of the usual glori-
fied panto she-prince. The Bulletin is
quite content to side with Shakspeare and
Asche. Whichever one of them stole the
play from Bacon should know best; and
this time they happen to be in agreement.
Verdict for defendant with costs. It is a
regrettable fact that space will not permit
the damp critic to go name by name to the
top of the cast, where sits the handsome
but comparatively unimportant Duke of
Athens. The bleak aristocracy just gets this
casual mention, as the defier of storms clips
on his goloshes and resumes his overcoat
and umbrella, for, good as it is, the masric
of Asche does not extend beyond the
theatre. An open door and a whistling
draught ! (BANG!).
* * * *
The second season in Sydney of “On Our
Selection” will conclude to-night at the
Palace after a run of eight weeks, during
which more seating and standing space has
been worn out in the theatre than during
any other two months that this writer can
recollect. To-morrow night the Sydney
Stage Society will do a piece in aid of the
memorial to one Shakspeare, deceased, who
was a pro. in a small way. The piece will
be Rudolph Besier’s “Don.” On Saturday
night “The Grafters,” an American musical
burlesque co., will shake a bright pro-
gramme at the congregation under the aus-
pices of William Anderson.
The second artistic entertainment given
in aid of the Sydney Repertory Theatre, at
Federation Hall, Grosvenor-street ,
place on Saturday. Caleb Porter ww£ k
had to relinquish the stage “minium
billet owing to his immediate denari,?!
England, provided the elocutionaTSt on
of the entertainment. His recitations and
stories were admirably delivered A m,,rK
encored musical entertainment was 21 von u
Mr. Alfred Mill and his pupils Slf
Casey, who has recently been stage mar,
agl a g 4° r g ra f nville ® arker London, 111
ceeds Mr. Porter as dramatic manager.
“The Count of Luxembourg” is neari™
the end of its run at Her Majesty’s, Sydney
an intimation that is intended as a solenn,’
warning to those who have not yet' heard
Lehars music, or watched Miss Arundalo
dance, or considered, in an unbiassed frame
of mind, the charms of the J.C W
chorus ladies.
“WITHIN THE LAW," AT MEL-
BOURNE ROYAL.
Reg Wykeham as
Edward Gilder.
Eric Maxon as young
Gilder.
“Cleopatra,” a cinematograph version of
“Antony and C1e0.,” now showing at the
Crystal Palace, Sydney, isn’t likely to throw
Oscar Asche out of employment at once. The
chief reason is that, white the Cleopatra of
Helen Gardner would, on the stage, come
very close to that of Lily Brayton. the rest
of the cast falls far short of the Asche stand-
ard. And as Shakspeare necessarily loses
some of his charm in the silent drama, the
acting must be perfect to make up for it.
Still, as pictures go, this one gets within
speaking distance of Excellence.
[There being an unpromising candidate with the
front name of Anthony or Antony standing for the
Federal Senate, wherefore the above allusions might
lead to discussions, confusions and recrim nations
under the Act, and be suspected of embodying a
hidden meaning, and a tendency to influence the
elections, and drive capital out of the country, and
a desire to hinder land settlement and retard immi-
gration, and possibly increase the N.S.W. deficit, and
reduce the railway earnings, and add to the Sydney
tramway congestion, and append new difficulties to the
already sufficiently complicated complication in the
Balkans, to say nothing of putting a stumbling block
in the way of the Northern Territory railway, and,
furthermore, to unsettle the public mind, if it has
any, which it probably hasn’t, and wouldn’t know
what to do with it if it possessed the article, the
same being quite contrary to its usual habits, the
writer appends his lawful and complete signature
Kenneth Prior, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
Lucy Gillett, a juvenile juggler and acro-
bat, who is modestly proclaimed to be the
“greatest on earth,” must go elsewhere if
she wants to argue that point. Outside
political circles, this writer hasn’t iseen any
lady juggler to come near her. Lucy, who is
from Germany, earns her earthly remunera-
tion mostly by throwing chairs, tables, pot-
plants, plates and books about in a most un-
concerned way, now and then turning a
somersault or doing a hand-spring for
variety. She only needs one or two ot
Kaiser Bill’s Dreadnoughts to make her fur-
niture outfit complete. Welch and Carbasse
are back with a new sketchy and Cassie Mai-
mer still fails to seriously impress this par-
ticular bit of the audience. The Roosters,
the Seals, Bellclair Bros, and the Four Qs
are still in the foreground. As the public
has got into the habit of looking at the tail
of a paragraph to find out where the re-
sponsible sinner may be discovered, it has
been left till the last to mention that the
aforementioned disturbers of the evening
peace are at the Tivoli, Castlereagh-street,
Sydney.
Adelaide Royal has had “Man and Super'
man,” so the Cultured city prides itself on
having put up two Shaw T plays within It
days. (“The Devil’s Disciple” was tne
other, and Governor Bosanquet went to


ENGLAND’S Latest Light Car.
STONELEIGH
t
Weight of
Chassis, llcwt.
¥
Silent Knight Daimler Engine, Detachable Wire Wheels, Worm Drive, etc.
SUNSHINE Motor Cars P’t’y, Melbourne I
HUGH V. McRAY, Sydney & Adelaide/
Agents..
&
boord&son
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
%
DT
I SWIFT &- COMPANY, AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS. O CONNEII, $T SYDNEY '
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
Victorian Branch : 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
S. J. FOWLER, Manager.
Pitt 8 King Streets, SYDNEY.
FIRE ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc.
Lowest Rates Charged, Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
’Phone No. 236 Central.
G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
NABOB BOOT PASTE
Economical, Brilliant, Waterproof, Easily Applied.
Manufactured by LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney. [2
both.) The stage version of “Man and
Superman was heavily “cut,” and not too
judiciously, for Mendoza, who dropped in at
curtain-fall, had never been seen before.
Julius Knight must have had a private
T Q lre /£ r T/*‘/M^ risol } °-»” f or the latter’s
par (.±5. 0/0/13) no longer has any truth in
it. in Adelaide Knight does not wear “a
pretty moustache,” is not “a beautifully
tailored young Block beau,” and is not
• S j av ? , and composed.” Barring a beard,
indeed, he seems to be just Shaw’s Tanner.
Miss Irene Browne is seductive as the lady
whom her lover calls bully, hypocrite, boa-
constrictor, and liar; and the rest of the
very strong company skims merrily through
the other parts. Hichens’s polite melo-
drama ot the London doctor, the poison-
dropping wife and the big buck Moham-
medan is finishing the season. Miss Grace
XNoble, by the way, got a tremendous recep-
tion on coming back among her Adelaide
triends.
Other Adelaide _shows are making strong
running for Birthday (Cup week. Clara
Butt is crowding the Exhibition on alter-
nate evenings The Tivoli has added the
Clarke-Dale Owen’s delightful turn to a
strong bill. The Driscolls, at the King’s,
deserve special mention; the one who clowns
a £> e nuine humorist. The Lessos and
.Desperado’ do some thrilling things at
this house. The picture shows have had a
disagreement. West’s are about to show
, e long ‘Quo Vadis”; Wondergraph is
already showing a short one. An action
by the former for injunction was dis-
missed, Judge Murray remarking acutely
that the main idea was about 1880 years
oid, and he would not like to say that no-
body must use it until he had seen how it
was used. So there are possibilities of
more trouble.
* * *
The disconcerting circumstance of “The
Mariner’s Wedding,” at Melbourne Kira’s,
is still the beauteous Lenore de Gresac, whose
fascination falls down dead before the long-
distance vengeance of Giacomo, the Dago of
the Evil Glance. Giacomo has an old score
to settle with the sinful lady, and he wipes
off the account with a carving knife. The
demise of Lenore, arrayed in the latest thing
in frocks, is good enough to be repeated for
an indefinite season; but unhappily she can-
not provide a public funeral after to-morrow
(Friday) night. On Saturday the King’s
supporters will be asked to try a course (not
a corpse) of education from Bailey and Co
in “The Native Born.”
** * *
At Melbourne Opera House, on Saturday,
Dale and Brookes showed their paces in a
sketch that has already been seen in this
part of the planet. The sketch is still the
same old diversion, a little thickened with
farce. The Jacksons still cycle. De Mario
and the Banvards are leaving this week;
and Madge Temple is finishing the run that
was recently interrupted by a painful illness.
As for O’Hana San, her shadowgraphed dis-
robing just reaches an interesting point when
an unexpected darkness falls on the gods.
** * *
“Satan” is now throned at the Olympia, in
Melbourne. The picture shows how the Son
of the Morning becomes the Dead Bird of
the Afternoon, and has special reference to
the period when he spread himself out as a
footless impostor in Mesopotamia, and
struggled on his stomach with the fruit in-
dustry. The film is long and exhausting,
and its sudden jump from about 7,000,000
B.c to a.d. 1913, seems to suggest that it has
been sub-edited in its middle region. In other
words, the snake was cut into two short
sections and one long one, and the two short
sections were gummed together, and the long
one representing about 6,000,000 years was
thrown over the fence where the Cat of
Ages got it. “The Artist and the Brute”
has a minimum of Artist to a maximum of
Brute. “Beau Brummel” gives an interest-
ing and fairly accurate record of the person
who always put his tailor before the Deity.
# * * *
“Tokio Town,” which is a harmless and
not undeserving series of Jap turns, inex-
pensively staged, drew a multitude to Mel-
bourne Auditorium last Saturday, or per-
haps the new and spruce Auditorium helped l
to draw the multitude to the novelty of the
little San Yen show. For the most part it
submits to an Australian audience nothing
to wonder at save the simplicity of Japanese
taste in entertainment. For instance, the
alleged sword-dancing and other weird an-
tics of Masayuki and Ryushinsai suggest
that the “noble Samurai warriors” of yore
carried barbarism to the extreme limit of
foolishness. The droning accompaniments
of two or three Jap females seem too childish
to be called horrible, and the butterfly
dance, or “tiny tot Iwami San,” betrays
only the crudity of Jap juvenile precocity
as compared with ordinary Australian infant
phenomenonality. A man who balances a
tub on his feet, while a little girl crawls in
and out of the tub. is presumably the star
performer of the little troupe. A swords-
man shows great dexterity in whisking the
obsolete weapon to and from its sheath. A
fairly clever head-balancer, a conjurer or
two, and the ancient, unpleasant spectacle
of a woman with “faked” soles walking up
and down a ladder of sword blades, are un-
e^ c iting items. In the art of stage effect—
the swank” of dumb showmanship—these
Japs are the merest amateurs. Civilisation
is largely bluff and bounce, and they are but
neophytes in civilisation. The only person
who attempts to make the show impressive
m the pianist of the limited white orchestra.
He acts as announcer of the wonders to
come. The pianist, shaking his curled head
over his box of music, is a person of some
importance, and when he stands up to face
the audience, and talk, he is beyond all
praise. He commands astonishment and
defies contradiction. Moreover, he quotes
The Bulletin.
*# * *
At Her Majesty’s, Melbourne, the end of
‘The Sunshine Girl” is coming sooner than
was expected. That anaemic frivol breathes
its last on Friday, and a revival of “Miss
Hook of Holland” will fill in the last five
nights of the season. Then, on Saturday
(21st), comes Adeline Genee, with the Rus-
sian Ballet, and Alexander Volinin, and Miss
Schmolz. Descriptive poetry of motion is
to provide the bulk of the bill. A strong
orchestra and “a dewdrop of an opera” will
make the rest of it. The dewdrop introduces
two operetta artists from Europe, and deals
with the tantalisation of a baritone husband
by his mischevious but devoted soprano wife,
which sounds well calculated to charm all
ladies who are married already, or hope to
be. But the centre of attraction in the
mixed programme is Gen4e.
In place of “From Convent to Throne,”
a melodrama of humbler life is promised for
next Saturday (14th), at the Princess’s.
Melbourne has shown a sad indifference to
the doings of the Girl Queen and her sub-
jects at the Court of Danubia, so the Mar-
low management is about to fall back on
“The Beggar Girl’s Wedding” for support.
Sandwiched between the ructions of her
Majesty and the nuptials of the Beggar Girl,
an amateur performance of “His Excel-
lency the Governor” will happen, on Satur-
day afternoon. Some ladies of local Society
and Gentlemen Helps of local vice-royalty
are dramatically concerned in this benefit
matinee show. The curtain will rise under
fashionable auspices at 2 p.m.
“WITHIN THE LAW,"
AT MELBOURNE
ROYAL.
The great big stiff. Lincoln
Plainer as Inspector Burke.
Jerrold Kobertskaw
as a lawyer.
At the Bijou the practised amateurs, who
break out occasionally as the Melbourne
Comic Opera Co., are going to produce “The
Girl Behind the Counter,” on Saturday next
(14th).
•I*
One of these years somebody will dis-
cover that dramas which glorify crime,
whilst encouraging contempt for the police,
are more insidiously immoral than “im-
pure literature” or cheap picture shows.
But the time is not yet ripe for
righteous disapproval of “Within the
Law.” Aggie, the blackmailer who has done
a,.“stretch,” is a prime favorite at Mel-
bourne Boyal; and Mary, who runs a crooks’
hoarding-house, on luxurious principles,
counts for an object-lesson of how to remain
pure, though dishonest. Mary, by the way,
is an awful little hypocrite. After having
complained that she was doomed to a
hopeless struggle for respectable exist-
ence at the Emporium she speaks of
her life having been “wrecked” by the
girl who had her sent to prison. All
the same, prison was the place where she
hatched her scheme of piling up riches with-
out soiling her hands. The career that got
wrecked wasn’t a circumstance on her new
career. The girl who went to quod had no
hope in life by her own showing, whereas the
minx she is has qualified her to shine as the
millionaire’s lady she is going to be. There is
always one dry eye in the house if it hap-
pens to be present when Mary professes to
feel sorry for herself
* * *
At the P’ran Lyric (Vic.), last week, the
fascinating exhibits were the Pathd-drama,
Ihe Slave,” and the three-spasm master-
piece, “The Price of Silence,” which left
the crowd so buried in deep thought that if
anyone had thrown a stone at its memory
it wouldn’t have risen again till the Day of
Judgment. The devil of this story is a
Duke, who wants to marry a rich girl, and
rushes headlong at his evil purpose. He
marries the female after she has temporarily
buried her affection for a boy called Harold
or Clarence or something, but the Duke suf-
fers from a surplus of bad intentions and de-
cadent pals, and these bring him to a bat-
tered finish about two or three furlongs from
the home post. After that the presumption
is that Harold or Egbert (as the case may
be) annexes the widow, but on this point the
picture is vague.
One of the Russian ballet men, lately arrived in
Melbourne, is said to have been amazed at the slang-
word slips given away with the programme of
“Within the Law.” Russians, it seems, can’t under-
stand why the meaning of any sort of words used in
English-speaking countries should be explained to
an English-speaking audience. In Russia there is
no slang. Any native using words intended to con-
ceal their meaning from the uninitiated would pro-
bably be suspected of plotting against the Czar.
You can’t even refer to a drink as a “tiddley” in
the city that Peter built.
“P.”: Yesterday, June 11 (d.v.), Egan Cannon
sailed for Germany. He weighed a genuine 56st.
when the Medina landed him in Australia last
February, but has since wasted away to 50st. He
was charged two fares for his passage to Australia,
and did his train travelling in brake-vans. The
Vic. and S.A. railways billed him with an ordinary
fare, but Johnson, of N.S.W., couldn’t carry him at
the price, and charged him as if he were twins
every time he was trucked. He stands 6ft. high, is
7ft. 6in. (or was) around the Equator, has a collar
measurement of 891 in., arfd is 28 years old. He has
a smaller appetite than Troebs, Germany’s famous
skeleton man, whose owl-like appearance scared this
writer considerably in Hambourg last year. Troebs
weight is about 361 b.
Annette Kellermann, no longer the “Australian
champion lady swimmer,” was a top-liner at the
London Alhambra at latest. She was doing a piece
called “The Wood Nymph,” whose main object is to
show Annette Kellermann —as much of Annette Kel-
lermann as Grundy’s wife will stand.
“8.J.”: Puccini journeyed from Pisa to the Fog
to take a look at Forbes-Robertson’s revival of “The
Light That Failed” ; his intentions towards Kipling
being strictly operatic. There should be possibilities
in Maisie for the man who made Belasco’s tart from
the Golden West theatrically tolerable.
(Continued on page 30.)
Next to Robert Harper, whose Vic-
torian electorate (Mernda) was wiped
off the map, the old M.H.R. who had
the worst luck was George Cann, a
younger brother of the N.S.W. Treasurer.
His district used to stretch from
Lithgow to Parramatta, or thereabouts. But
in the re-division Lithgow was cut out of
it, and some of Cook’s fruit-growers were
thrown into it, and from a Labor point of
view that was like tying up the kangaroo’s
hind legs and hitching a road-roller to his
tail.
[S. H. Prior, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
Melbourne’s disorganised police force has
been at it again. The story goes that con-
stable No. 1 was drunk; that senior-cop. No.
2 tried to put him out of the barracks ; that
bobby No. 3 attacked cop. No. 2 with the
view of defending inebriated constable No.
1; that slop or John Dunn No. 4 went to the
aid of senior-cop No. 2 and dragged away
bobby No. 3 ; that bobby No. 3 then pro-
duced a revolver and fired promiscuously;
and that but for the strenuous interference
of Hop No. 5 the barracks might have been
filled with bodies and sudden death. Mel-
bourne had very little faith in its constabu-
lary even before this happening, and now it
has less faith than previously. Anyhow, at
latest advices constable No. 1 was sus-
pended, and bobby No. 3 was under arrest.
Westralia is the hardest nut for the
Federal. Liberals to crack. Every Labor
candidate who has stood for the Senate in
that State since 1901 has been elected. De
Largie and Pearce led off as the local Labor
men. Those two have been in ever since—
De Largie was returned in 1904 and again
in 1910, and Pearce is leading in the 1913
election. In 1904, 1907 and 1910 elections
three Labor Senators were returned each
time; and each time the Labor vote has
beaten its predecessor. In 1901, at the first
Australian general election, the vote was
14.4 per cent, of the total number on the
rolls; in 1904, it was 16.1 per cent.; 1907,
18.7 per cent.; 1910, 31.7 per cent; and
this year, so far, it is 33.5 per cent. And,
besides that, Westralia has for the second
time said “Yes” to all the referenda pro-
posals and thus proclaimed itself the
stanchest Australian Nationalist of them
all.
[Kenneth Prior, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
At one chop the Australian Parliament’s
five oldest M’s.P. have dropped out. Deakin
and Robert Harper (Victoria) were the
absolute patriarchs: they both became mem-
bers of the Vic. Assemblv 34 years ago, and
Deakin was a Minister within four
years. Quick (Victoria) followed the next
year—lBBo. Lyne (N.S.W.) seems to have
been in politics a generation longer than
these three; yet Deakin and Harper were
his seniors by a year, and Quick by two or
three months. But “Oom Bill” beat all
comers in some respects; he wasn’t out of
Parliament for a day when once he got in,
and he sat throughout for one district —the
Hume. The name even went with him
when he passed from one House to the
other; for the Hume was one of the very
few Federal districts that collared a State
district’s name. The fifth Parliamentary
ancient was Symon (S.A.), who sat for
Sturt in 1881 and was Attorney-General
the same year. But after 1887 he found he
had troubles enough of his own, and he
never went back to State politics again.
And all this takes no account of Simon
Fraser (Vic.), who was an older Parlia-
mentarian than any of them, sitting first for
Rodney in 1874. But Fraser was hardly
chopped out. It was old age that whispered
in his ear twelve months ago and told him
to have done with such things.
[S. H. Prior, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
AT POVERTY POINT.
August van Biene, who brought “The Broken
Melody” to Australia, was no saver. He made a
heap of money, but had only £228 of it left when
he died in London lately—the all-but Broken Melo-
dist.
“Chasuble”: Apropos “Quo Vadis.” The ancient
Romans never persecuted any religion. They only
roasted Christianity in its political aspect. They
could not understand the talk about. Christ being a
King, and indeed it is evident that £he early Chris-
tians had an idea that Christ would step up on to
a temporal throne and become an honorary colonel and
open exhibitions. Nay, one of the Gospels mentions
that he withdrew himself because certain Jews
wanted to take him by force and make him king.
All sorts of nonsensical religions were tolerated in
Rome when Nero and Diocletian attacked the Chris-
tians.
“Kaylee”: Hagenbeck, sen., of the famous Ham-
burg Zoo, has passed to the world where, if what
the Good Folk assert is true, the absence of four-
legged animals will make it very lonesome for the
old man. Hagenbeck’s two sons have followed so
closely in dad’s steps that the senior elephants call
them by their Christian names, and the more grisly
of the bears have known them since childhood. Both
young men are spruce, smart, intellectual fellows, as
far removed from the old showman type as a Wowser
from a labelled whisky bottle. In the big office at
the Zoo some 20 or 30 clerks are employed, and
folk are continually dropping in to buy a yard or
two of giraffe, or to take a blood-sweating hippopota-
mus on the hire system. The office of the present
Hagenbeck, sen., is arranged with an eye to detail,
and the visitor may squat comfortably on an elephant
hoof. If Hagenbeck is not present a huge boarhound
lies across a beautiful rug in front of the desk, and
disappears on his boss’s entrance. Each time Hagen-
beck goes out the hound comes back. It doesn’t look
very respectful to the man who has no intention of
appropriating a hippopotamus by stealth, or pocket-
ing a boa-constrictor; nevertheless, it is a highly
effective bit of stage management.
“J.F.H.”: Went to the Coliseum, London, to see
the “Two Captains” in what they call their “Society
entertainment.” One Captain is the son of Field-
Marshal Sir Evelyn Wood and the nephew of Mrs.
O’Shea, Parnell’s friend. He is boldly advertised as
Sir Evelyn’s son, and has little else to recommend
him to notice. He is a volatile young man who sits
at the piano and makes feeble jokes. His companion,
“my partner,” as he frequently calls him, is an older
person, Captain Harry Green by name, who got the
D.S.O. in the S’African war. Green has a passable
tenor voice, and uses it to sing sentimental nothings.
Most of their ditties are about the army. One of
them suggests that the Army Council should be
sacked and Kitchener brought back, and London is
wondering what sort of army discipline this is from
a couple of captains.
TO MAKE PLAY-ACTING PAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Many of the theatres here give me the impression
that the people on the stage are paying to do it.
If they are (and I am informed that the custom is
widely recognised), there are a few of them who
must find the game very expensive if they pay an
adequate price for the agonies they inflict. Two-
thirds of the ladies on the stage during the run of
one much-boomed comic opera were supposed to be
indulging a hobby at their own expense, or that of
affluent admirers in the city.
- —-An Australian in London.
The shrill soprano, richly gowned,
With diamonds in pecks, and pearls
To gravel fifty roods of ground,
And all the lovely titled girls,
No longer when the frost comes down,
O’er backward screws kick up a fuss.
In fact, they pay
So much per day
To be allowed to sing to us.
The sly soubrette, the dancing girl,
The damsels who are on for show,
The handsome bloke who plays the Earl—
They’re not professionals, dear, no!
They’re glad to fork out princely sums
In limelight glow to air their charm,
And throw stale jokes
At simple folks
Who never did them any harm.
The problem of the theatre
Is now about to solve itself,
For all will pay who caper there,
From Hamlet to the panto elf.
When Blank’s new opera opens, and
Enthusiasm is immense,
None will be paid,
Nor man nor maid—
Except, of course, the audience!
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


VJ
•u
J
■ CrJ
\yr
The D.J. SPECIAL UNDERWEAR
PRICE 5/11
True quality in every sense of the word, and remarkable value for 5/11,
will you get if you invest in this D.J. Underwear. The garments are a
good, useful Winter Weight—all pure wool, rendered unshrinkable —
which we guarantee. They are well and smoothly woven, and shaped
to give freedom and perfect comfort. Any reasonable amount of wear
can be expected of these garments, and they will be found warm for
wintry weather. They will wash and retain their shape. In sizes—
Slender Men’s, Men’s, and Out Sizes.
UNDER VESTS, with l sleeves : 5/11 each
UNDERPANTS 5/11 pair
DAVID JONES PAY CARRIAGE.
DAVID JONES, LTD.,
Opp. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
V
-
Rugelmann’s
Pure Herbal
SKin Soap.
" Beauty's Aid."
Free Sample sent on Receipt of
Twopenny Stamp.
Kugelmann’s Pure Herbal Skin Soap may e
tained at all Chemists, Drapers and Storekeeper
throughout Australasia, at 2/6 per box of thr Ntg
tablets. If not obtainable locally, send Posta ,
or Stamps of any State, to the value of 3/-t
ing postage), when box will be posted pe
maiL
Sole Proprietors:
H. E. KUGELHANN & CO.,
Wholesale Druggists and Manufa' t>*.rers,
14-16 Queen Street, MELBOURNE; P« Street,
SYDNEY; and at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
There is a mine-manager at Kaitangata
(M.L.) who should be pricking the card for
the next Melbourne Cup while his luck’s in.
The other day he fell down a shaft, an acci-
dent apparently designed by Fortune to
illustrate its regard for its favorites. Any-
how, the hurtling man suddenly found that
he had grasped a rope in his descent and
was sliding like oiled lightning. In a flash
he struck the bottom feet first and, lo! it
was a mud hole into which he had plunked.
It is true that he broke a leg and that the
rope cut his hands, but those are mere
trifling incidents when the bottom falls out
of things to the extent of 550 ft!
“Jeames” (still scandalised) : I bought a
copy of the Evening News last week. I
did so because I saw a scare-heading on the
posters which said, or, rather, yelled, “City
Runaway: Sensational Rescue by a Duke,”
and I knew there was some more low comedy
going. According to the News, a horse
bolted opposite the Australia, whereupon :
A young man sprang to the rescue. It was Duke
H. A. Radziwil. He was immaculately dressed, and
was wearing suede gloves, and carrying a cane. With-
out saying a word to his friends, he rushed to the
middle of the roadway. He discarded his cane as he
ran, and his hat was blown off, but he made straight
for the horse's head, and, springing through the air,
grasped the reins a couple of inches from the animal’s
mouth.
After describing the immaculate one’s effort
in detail, the News went on :
The Duke was cheered by the bystanders, but when
approached by Constable Brown for his name and
address, he declined to give them. He returned to
his friends, and after resuming his hat and cane, and
having a wash and his clothes brushed, he returned
to the constable and handed him a visiting card. It
bore only the name “Duke H. A. Radziwil.” Brown
again asked him for his address, but he still de-
clined to give it, and walked away.
My diagnosis is that “the Duke” is a Yank,
and that his title is similar to that of King
O'Malley or the late Lord George Sanger. I
once valeted a U.S. citizen named, as far as
I remember, Emperor P. Huskins. He got
his title at the baptismal font. He was an
Emperor, in the sight of Heaven, so to speak ;
but none of the Royal families had any truck
with him. The name of the Chief Justice
of Queensland is Pope Cooper. Sainted char-
acter as I have been given to understand he
is, no one calls him “His Holiness,” or any-
tcing of that sort. Dukes do not put their
initials on their visiting cards. “Duke A.
W. P. Connaught,” for example, would be
most unusual. For that matter, there would
be something strange-looking in such an
environment about “Baronet G. Strickland”
or “Knight N, Maclaurin.” I see, by the
way, that I was right in my view last month
that W. A. Holman lunched not at the Carl-
ton Club, but at the City Carlton, which, as
I mentioned at the time, is a very different
proposition, indeed. Said the London cor-
respondent of the S. M. Herald (writing
25/4/’l3) :
On Tuesday of this week I heard Mr. Holman’s
last public utterance in London prior to his de-
parture, two days hence, for Sydney. It was his ad-
dress to the City Carlton Club.
Yet only last week Sydney Telegraph com-
mented yet again on Holman’s loathly con-
duct in lunching at that “haunt of High
Toryism, the Carlton Club” —or words to
that effect. As regards English customs, con-
ventions and the like, the Australian dailies
—with the loitely exception of the S. M.
Herald —show an abysmal depth of naif
ignorance that I have not encountered else-
where outside Topeka, which is a small and
intensely Amurkan town near Kansas City
(U.S.).
LOO KING BACKWARDS.
To put it plainly, our old State has swung right
over; or, shall I say, swung back to its old political
moorings. —Federal election statement by Mr. Cook.
The Liberal moorings. Taken from an old
chap-book.
[FRED BROWN, Kogarah, N.S.W.]
“Chasuble” : The Melbourne booms of the
moment are both pious, “Quo Vadis” and
Father Robinson’s Camberwell Church.
Robinson emanates from Tasmania, and is
a ’vert. He came to Melbourne a good
many years ago, and was first distinguished
among the priesthood for his excellent bari-
tone singing. He was not particularly happy
in settlements at St. Francis’s and rural
Gisborne, but found his feet at Camberwell.
In its appanage of Surry Hills he built the
nice little Church of the Holy Redeemer.
The general public first heard of him as the
patron of Amy and Dolly Castles. In grati-
tude for his services, Amy has promised a
monstrance of jewelled gold for the Cam-
berwell Church, and Dolly will give a preci-
ous altar ornament, Amy has already given
an expensive little statue of the Virgin, said
to have cost £250, to the Surry Hills
Church. Father Robinson’s new Camber-
well tabernacle, to Our Lady of Victories,
was suggested by the similar church on
Montmartre Heights, Paris. Architect
Fritsch, of Melbourne, is responsible foy the
design. It reminds me of a luxurious mosque
in Delhi or Cairo, with its minaret in front,
and its grand dome over the transept.
There is a faint suggestion of Westminster
Cathedral about it, too. But it is more
beautiful —which is easy, for, as an Irish
priest said, Westminster Cathedral consists
of two gas meters and a factory chimney.
* * * *
The last chapter of a Zolaesque London
yarn was completed last week, by the brief
cable announcement that Jeannie Baxter had
got three years for manslaughter. Jeannie
Baxter was a daughter of joy, and for some
time she had been supported chiefly by one
Unwin. Then Hall, .an airman, happened
THE USEFUL MACHINE.
MR. ROCK: “Did you find the motor useful on election day!"
MISS DOUGH: “I did , indeed. Ran down three Labor voters!"
along and began to partially support her.
Unwin, thereupon, partially sheered off.
When he was drunk he used to come back to
her, but, financially speaking, he wasn’t
drunk often enough. So she told Hall that
he would have to marry her. Hall was
drunk at the time, and said he would. So
she got drunk, and went home and told her
servant, who appears to have been only parti-
ally sober, that it was all right, and that
Hall intended to make a lady of her. About
this time Hall and Unwin both got drunk
and fought a duel over her in her flat. Noth-
ing happened, beyond a certain amount of
damage to the walls and furniture. In the
end the combatants spent the night together
amicably on the floor of Hall’s flat. Jeannie
Baxter appears to have come to the conclu-
sion, at this stage, that the position was
becoming adramatic. not to say banal. So
she got very drunk, indeed, and went to Hall
(who was utterly and hopelessly and irre-
vocably blithered), and inquired, as man to
man, if he intended to lead her to the altar?
Hall made no direct answer, as is the exas-
perating way with inebriates. Instead, in
the language of the cable-man
He picked up a revolver and whistled down the
barrel, saying: “I dare you to pull the trigger.”
So she obliged him, and his spirit went, or,
rather, reeled before its Maker. It is a
strange, wild story of almost chronic jag on
all hands, and when the unfortunate Hall
got the time to do his flying—tins being a
pastime that absolutely howls for complete
sobriety—remains a darksome mystery. The
only lesson that outstands definitely is that
one should never whistle down the barrel of
a loaded revolver when there is an alcohol-
laden young woman in the room. Incident-
ally, there is a no-license, or at least a pro-
reduction, argument to be elicited from the
affair, by a temperance enthusiast with his
heart in the job.
“G.V.W.”: The sentimental yarn that the
Titanic band played “Nearer, my God, to
Thee” as the ship
went down has been
wrecked in a collision
with that solid ice-
berg, Truth. Colonel
Gracie, one of the sur-
vivors, recently stated
positively that the
last music was “rag-
time,” played half an
hour before the ship
sank; and then the
bandsmen put aside
their instruments and
helpfed to load the
boats. The Colonel
tears the yarn to pieces thus: —
If the band had played that familiar hymn, panic
would have resulted. Fixing- the minds of the pas-
sengers on the possibility of their being nearer to
God, and I say it seriously, would jhave been the
last thing wanted.
So another child’s imaginative story goes
the way of most of the others.
“0.K.”: In Melbourne Divorce Court
last week, Justice Hood decided that ih
poverty of John McMaster had disqualified
him from getting legally quit of the wife
who bolted with another man just 10 years
ago. His Honor did not put the case in
that way. He said the petitioner had shown
“insensibility” to the loss of his giddy heln
mate by waiting 10 years before he sued
for divorce. Petitioner’s statement that the
cost of rearing the six children had eaten
into his humble wages, and left him
without means of going to law during those
years, seemed to have .no effect on his
„ ““Lu ““j™ r £ d KSSf who XJg,
gr i ns an( j bears it, because he can’t afford
to express his feelings in the Divorce Court
is regarded as a man unworthy of a decree
nisi. The Law decides that he, being too
miserably poor to pay for a divorce within,
say, five years, must remain forever liable
for the support of his lawful wife, should
she take it into her head to track him to
his domicile and re-inflict herself upon him.
Had John McMaster dropped into a fortune
soon after he was left a grass-widower, with
six kids to support, he would doubtless have
bought his freedom like other well-to-do hus-
bands whose wives have transferred their
affections and their company to the other
fellow. Being fortuneless, he remained un-
divorced, and therefore "insensible” in the
eyes of the Law. Were he to drop into a
fortune to-morrow, his wife, doubtless,
would return to him for maintenance —and
get it. He remains bound to support her
if she worries him, owing to his “unreason-
able delay” in proving that she had for-
feited all claim to his support. That’s the
Law, according to Justice Hood.
THE BEAST.
"George! There's one of those wriggly hung
on the ceiling."
“All right , my dear! Put your foot on ti-
lt's quite harmless."
WHEN JUSTICE IS DONE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Pungent comments were made by Mr. Justice Hey-
don in the Industrial Arbitration Court yesterday re-
garding the action of the Manly and Port Jackson
Steamship Company’s employees, who struck work on
March 22. His Honor said nominal fines were of no
use in such cases ; events of the past few months had
convinced him that the Court must not be laughed at.
The defences of the men were childish, and in some
cases impudent in character. He would, therefore,
have to impose substantial, but not vindictive, penal-
ties. —S. M. Herald, 6/6/’l3.
When in the shaky motor boat
Of Pirate Enterprise
To my small job I used to float,
I d—d the strikers’ eyes.
I had a ferry ticket, too ;
It was a curio ;
I paid, and looked extremely blue,
Two bob to come and go.
They did not run a boat for me,
But wrote upon their fence
If I fell off into the sea
And drowned, ’twas my expense.
Then They, or He, or It sat down
And breathed hard through Its trunk,
While customers went off to town
In cockleshells quite drunk.
Then Socialism —(Dash the thing!)
Took up the ferry job,
And people ceased to claw and cling
To pirates at a bob.
And presently They, He or It —
The thing without a heart —
Threw something like a mammoth f
Caved in, and made a start.
Then Socialism —(D —n the thing!)
Resumed its usual jobs ;
The strikers danced a Highland fling ;
They’d got their stricken bobs!
The sad suburbanite (that’s me!)
Next heard the Beast declare
The wages bill it could not see.
Up went the blighted fare!
Next to the court the strikers marched
To be severely fined ;
Then Arbitration’s back was arched!
Its tail swelled up behind.
The Judge spoke very sharply. Phew!
The Court was not a butt!
He’d quickly show them who was who!
He would, indeed! Tut-tut!
He fined them most severely! Why,
Those fellows had to pay
As much as one oil launch might try
To pirate in a day !
(That shows you what State Law can do
When it puts on its hair.)
The reverent co. said, “Good for you!”
The trav’ller paid the fare.
The strikers, company and Judge
On ev’ry point agree ;
’Gainst one another they’ve no grudge,
And all is amity.
But I, a discontented hound,
My fellow-beings shun,
And hate to hear folk say around
That “Justice has been done.”
For, being parted from my purse,
I see who gave the feast!
There’s nothing left to do but curse
The Socialistic Beast.
My mind, I know, is not quite clear.
Maybe another day
I will be glad to have it near.
But, d—n it, now, I say!
N.S.W.
THE RELIGIOUS EDITOR.


Add a little
No matter what your
drink may be.
Wild’s Hairdressing Rooms, 30 Upstairs,
Sydney Arcade, George and King Streets, Sydney, is
the proper place to go if you want the best of atten-
tion. Electric head and face massage done in the
latest American style. Hours of business: 8.30 to
6.30 : Saturday close at 1 o’clock.*
I
m
THE JACKET-SWEATER
AN IDEAL GARMENT.
For lounge, recreative, or sporting wear, this style of
Sweater has unique advantages.
It buttons right to neck, has turn-down collar, two
patch pockets—and SLIPS ON AND OFF LIKE A
COAT.
It is warm and comfortable, and presents a very
smart appearance.
In Navy, Brown, and White.
36in. 40in. 44in.
14/6 15 6 16/6
Open-neck style, similar to a vest, 1/- less. Postage
9d. extra. Inter-State, 1/3.
Mention chest measurement when ordering. Catalogue
on request
PH APES & CO. LTD.,
3Q 9 g JU Stree , Sy()My
Sin s e , mc ) ine ” : The Sydney Tele-
graph printed the following a day or so ago:
.}} am using for the Australian in London to be
toia the story of a certain Governor-General who,
at a men s dinner party, got an immense amount of
tun out of spraying his guests with a syphon of soda-
water without meeting anything but smiles from
those he assaulted. But one's amusement is tempered
with an acute sense of humiliation. At that particu-
lar dinner, I believe, there was only one Australian
who, without speech, showed sufficient dignity and
resentment to escape dry. There is no doubt that in
this particular case, which is absolutely authentic,
the object of the King’s representative was to test
how far he could impose upon the obsequiousness of
his colonial guests.
There is a fairly common variety of London
journalist who gets an easy living by con-
cocting paragraphs of the following sort: —
An amusing story is told of one whom we shall
venture to call “Lady X.” At a certain Royal
Garden party she partook so generously of the good
things that were in evidence as to fall, or, any rate,
stumble, when in the vicinity of a Very High Per-
sonage indeed. “Lady X.” will not be seen at
Buckingham Palace again for some time to come.
Or, again :
They are whispering at the clubs that the gallant
Major who so distinguished himself in the South
African war is paying a deal too much attention to
the little lady who hunts with the Quorn. If she
weren’t married, and the proprietor of a furiously
jealous husband, there would be less likelihood of
the warrior getting into serious trouble.
These cryptic utterances serve to thrill the
right-thinking suburban folks who buy the
rags in which they appear. And they do
no particular harm, since, about 99 times
out of a hundred, they apply to no one, being
evolved out of the inner consciousness of a
needy ink-slinger who frequents neither Royal
garden parties nor clubs. The lurid Tele-
graph yarn above-quoted is in the same cate-
gory as the sample ones which follow it. To
anyone who knows Australia, its refutation
is stamped upon its very face. Governor-
Generals give only three sorts of men’s
dinners: (1) To Ministers, etc.; (2) to
those who control racing in the different
States; and (3) to polo-playing enthusiasts.
The idea of an entire Ministry—whether
Labor or Liberal—being drenched uncom-
plainingly, may be dismissed out of hand, as
too idiotic for discussion. Racing is con-
trolled in all the States mostly by pompous
old gentlemen, intensely jealous of their dig-
nity, and prepared to well-nigh massacre any-
one who attempts to derogate from the same.
Imagine old H. C. Dangar, of N. S. Wales, or
one of the Millers, of Victoria, being sprayed
with soda-water, and keeping silent on the
subject. If citizens of this sort didn’t in-
continently burst with fury at the outrage,
they would create such an uproar in the
community later on, that the sprayer would
have to flee the country. As regards the
polo-players, it is enough to say that they
are, in the nature of things, men of a certain
amount of spirit. I know a good many of
them, and I never heard the shadow of a
hint that would support the Telegraph’s
wild yarn. The most sensational event in
the history of the vice-regal polo dinners was
when an A.D.C., who had overdrunk him-
self accidentally, was forced to dash hur-
riedly from the room. It provided food
for gossip for about a year afterwards. I
wrote a couple of years ago on “The Neces-
sity for the Segregation of Governors.” The
need still exists. This class has, for some
reason or another, to put up with more
criminal libel and slander from the “right-
thinking” section of the community than any
other.
THE GIANT'S ROBE.
THE LADY: “Peautiful! Peautiful!! It vits
you like a glove, Joe."
The Sydney suburban councils have of late
been loudly advertising their hostility to the
Greater Sydney scheme, and professing
themselves quite satisfied with the work
done by the suburban councils. They
are easily satisfied. Sheol has few
terrors for the alderman who can feel
satisfied, for example, with the aver-
age suburban road. A fire-engine dashing
through Drummoyne the other night got
bogged in one of the main highways for over
three-quarters of an hour. In some of the
suburbs the inhabitants are afraid to wade
the “streets” at night, and go home by climb-
ing along the tops of the fences. Many
thousands of pounds’ worth of damage is
done to the motors, carts, cabs, carriages and
other vehicles of the ratepayers, as a result
of the uncivilised state of the thoroughfares
in and around Sydney. And the non-vehicle-
owning member of the community has the
bill for this senseless waste passed on to him
in one way and another. The fact that the
suburban councillors are quite satisfied with
the road-building part of their work, sug-
gests that they are mostly connected with
the carriage-building or motor-tyre-supplying
trades.
THE SHEPHERD REPROVED.
THE NEW CURATE (involved in argument):
“Put, my dear woman"
MRS. MCSTINGER : “Don't you come round
here callin' me your dear woman. Me
husband was only sayin' yesterday as how
all yous parsons was good for was runnin'
round flirtin’ with the wimmem."
From the Oldest Inhabitant:—
Waratah House, in Bayswater-road, offered at auc-
tion recently, and passed in, was one of Sydney’s
most notable mansions half a century ago. In the
very early ’so’s it was built and inhabited
by Edwin Tooth, of the Kent Brewery. It was there
that on a Sunday in January, 1853, the four Tooths
-—-Edwin, Robert, Frederick and Charles —were din-
ing, when news was brought by a mounted messenger
that the whole beer was on fire. The dinner party
broke up in the middle of an oyster, and all hurried
to the blazing brewery, where they found Donald
Larnach and a rescue brigade hard at work. The
stone work had to be rebuilt, and the job was costly
in 1853, for masons were getting £1 per day. The
fire smouldered for three weeks. The original brew-
ery, by the way, dated from 1834. To come back
to Waratah. George King got it from Edwin Tooth
towards the end of the ’so’s. He was a partner in
the firm of Thacker, Daniel and Co. —the people who
purchased the big nugget found by Dr. Kerr’s black
shepherd at Meroo. The firm subsequently became
Daniells, King and Co. King, who was M.L.A. for
East Sydney in 1869-72, had Waratah until the mid-
’7o’s, when the much-gilded W. B. Walford (Walford
and Sparke) got it, and remained in it until his
death. One or other of the Walfords was in posses-
sion until 1905, when the place, like most old man-
sions, became a sausage castle.
* * * *
Once again the physical standard for the
Victorian police force has dropped, John
Weary and Chief Commissioner Sainsbury
having agreed that the new men need only
be sft. Bin. short, with practically any kind
of chest. The inducements to join the
force have become so wretched that the
ranks are never anything like full, and in-
stead of giving decent pay, and a guarantee
of something when the Hop gets too old
and stiff to do any more dodging after
criminals, the Government just brings down
the physical requirements. Those require-
ments probably ought to be hauled down;
hitherto there has been far too much re-
gard for brawn and far too little for brain
in the force. But while the virtue of brawn
is now to be disregarded, sufficient induce-
ments are not held out to attract the brain;
wherefore there is a dreary prospect that in
the Vic. force of the future there will be
neither meat nor genius—neither a ton of
flesh and muscle nor a bulging forehead —
but just plain weed.
“J.”: Someone recently
wrote about the vagaries of
whiskers in connection with
Sydney’s tram service. I
admit all of it, but I wish
to point out that there is a
worse horror in the streets
of the ma capital every day
than that supplied by Whis-
kers. It is the terrible per-
formance of the dowager.
Usually she stands mooning
at the stopping place, gazing
at the passing cars with an
expression of mingled haut-
eur and benignity. Just as
the conductor rings the bell
she decides to catcb that
tram, and waddles magnifi-
cently towards it. A cart
or some other obstruction
prevents the car starting
till she has one ridicu-
lous foot on the step
and the other absurd
short leg resting on
the ground. Then I
have to yell like Hades
to the conductor, grasp
the heavy female dow-
ager with both hands
where the meat gives
the best grip, stick
my feet against the
opposite passenger’s
anatomy, and haul like
the Devil to keep the
shrieking fool from
being dragged under
the wheels. Dowagers
should be prohibited
from travelling o n
trams unless piloted
round by a trusty
keeper. Another hor-
ror is the pompous
dame who, when a car
is compelled to slow
down to avoid a
collision with a
cart loaded with
beer or tracts,
gravely rises and
proceeds to get out
on the wrong side,
regardless of the
fact that the
vehicle is not at a
stopping place. She
thinks that her desire to alight should be
sufficient. When the outfit comes to a
momentary pause she grips the handrail
firmly, swings her face to the tail of the
machine, steps off backwards, and gives a
shocking exhibition of boots and hose. A
third atrocity is the fool miss in a hobble
skirt who dashes across the line in front of
the charging tram, and causes the driver to
apply all the brakes, and go grey-headed in
five seconds, and shake the innards out of
his passengers. Having escaped scot-free
and whole-limbed this hobble-skirter turns
round and laughs an inane giggle. Is there
no way of suppressing these atrocities?
“Burke II.”: The appointment of Dr:
McCormick, of Sydney, to the rank of K. 8.,
as a royal birthday gift, was not the best
sort of honor to confer on a great surgeon,
a hard worker, and an almost invaluable
citizen. The K.B. title is, next to that of
C.M.G. (which is known cheerfully in Court
circles and such like as “Colonial Made
Gent.”), the most despised of royal favors.
There is no “Order” of K.B. A N.S.W.
Judge used to write Kt. after his name, but
even that was against rule. He was not a
Knight. Some K.B.’s wear decorations,
but they have no warrant for sporting such
gauds. Their number can be increased
to a multitude, and they are, like Brown’s
cows, a mixed lot. One king created a
batch because the applicants sent him
peasants to act as soldiers when he was in
a tight place. Other kings openly sold the
title. Later, when Parliament objected to
the scandal, it was agreed to levy a beer
tax instead.
* * * *
“Jean Sibi” contributes a note on art (or
otherwise) :
At the Melbourne Athenaeum, Gill and Son have
found a refuge for 117 pictures, 58 of which are con-
tributed by father, giving son a Joe Cook majority
of one. Father swanks under the title of Alberto
Gillini, and, in a manner of speaking, wraps him-
self in Turner’s winding-sheet and rings the changes
on the master’s effects to the point of boredom.
His interiors of the Escurial and St. Peter's, Rome,
are the most inviting ; his sunsets are the least im-
pressive. No. 58, to seize an example, conveys the
impression of an omelette or a bloodshot eye. Nay-
lor Gill has quite enough talent to be himself, but
he becomes tiresome, too, when he gives you 13
bushfires, all burning with fury on the right of the
picture, and automatically throwing the vegetation
on the left into vermilion relief. This sort of work
is merely pictorial incendiarism for commercial pur-
poses ; and, really, after all is said and done, it
might just as well have been done by machinery.
Naylor’s other studies are occasionally interesting,
though more often commonplace.
A few words from “10-2-4”
I went to the King’s Levge last week—or, to be
exact, I watched the people going to it from the
window of a flat opposite Parliament House, Mac-
quarie-street, Sydney. The clothes ! Well, there ! One
of the main troubles with the local aristocrat lies
in the fact that he does not understand the first
rules of what one may call dressing-up. And yet, per-
verse idiot that he is, he loves to do it, and fulfils
his desire whenever possible without appreciating
what a blighted ass he thereby makes of himself.
Pierpont Morgan paid his famous valet, James,
£3OOO a year chiefly to tell him what orders he
sliould wear at the different parties which he
attended. (The laws about order-wearing are like
those of the Dudes and Persians, for irrefragibility ;
and they are infinitely more involved.)- I- venture
to say that it would pay the members of the in-
digenous noblesse to band together and hire an ex-
pert at a generous stipend to tell them which of their
clothes they should burn ; what new ones they should
get ; and the particular garments they should avoid
wearing in conjunction. By this move, they would
save themselves from the cheerful derision of the
sophisticated—a more frequent section in a street
crowd than one might imagine.
I counted seven loyalists who were guilty of wear-
ing brown boots with top hats. One tall, thin
youth strode thoughtfully through the Assembly
gates in a frock coat that reached almost to his
ankles, and one of those small cloth hats which the
baser sort of actor affected largely a few years ago.
In his right hand he carried a pair of garish yellow
gloves. An ingenious combination for a comic
music-hall turn —but as a lev&e costume —no ! A
large, ingenuous-looking young man walked from the
direction of King-street in a frowsy wig and gown,
beneath which appeared bright blue trouserings of
the half-mast order. The boots, thus generously ex-
posed, were dusty, and seemed to insist, with super-
fluous stridency, on the fact that they were full of
feet. I don’t know if you have encountered boots
of that sort? They give one the idea that they are
at their ultimate gasp, so to speak, and that if an
atom more foot is forced upon them, they will
publicly burst. The wearer of this sort of boot
always walks heavily on his heels, and turns his
toes out like a bear or a seal or some other wild
creature whose name I for the moment disremem-
ber. Immense enthusiasm was evoked by the arri-
val of an elderly gentleman in evening clothes,
blucher boots —or they might have been football
boots ; I was so absorbed in a study of his waistcoat
that I failed to give them due attention —and a
straw hat. He was followed by one who, in my
judgment, represented the pick of the bunch. Every-
thing he wore was new and shiny, and absolutely
poisonous. Nothing fitted him anywhere—neither
his absurd little top-hat, nor his extremely “nobby”
tail coat, nor his trousers, nor his collar with its
tiny ready-made tie attached. He must have felt
infernally uncomfortable; and yet he looked happy.
I felt that I would like to paint or photograph him;
or preserve him in spirits for ever, just as he was;
or shoot him dead.
But the average levSe-goer, who did not wear a
uniform, was drably unsensational. He looked, for
the most part, like one who had dredged up from
somewhere an Early Victorian suit of broadcloth,
and a Georgian top-hat; donned the garments ; slept
in them in a dust-box for a week or so; fallen off
a couple of trams in them ; been defeated in a street
fight in them; and then walked in them to Mac-
quarie-street. , . ,
As a result of the whole show I have conceived a
new respect for the office of State Governor. What
command of the features the occupant of such a
billet must have! What nerve! What heroic im-
perturbability ! To stand while about a hundred
born laughter-makers file past and never explode
once! The feat is almost superhuman.
THE MORNING SHOWER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Forecast: “Generally fine, except for some showers
on the North Coast. Cold, frosty, foggy nights.
West to southerly winds.”
Now is the time of year when strong men brag,
While bearing- to the tram the sacred Bag:
“Well, how did you enjoy the shower to-day ?”
Thus do they phrase it in their cunning way.
“My word ! I felt the ice in it all right!
What-o to-morrow, if there’s frost to-night!”
Ah, then, the list’ning coward who declines
To strain his heart of terror hangs out signs,
And shrinks away from where the stalwarts blow
Of water iced and how it “brings a glow.”
Now is the time of year when braggarts rage,
And ev’ry morning tram, at ev’ry stage,
Picks up some man who’s got a curdling tale
That’s guaranteed to make hot washers pale.
His arrogance is awful —-you would say
He had invented showers that very day,
And that he was the first heroic chap
To loose the avalanche behind the tap.
But I, who love the old bath-heater’s snore,
And tingle at its hot and steam}' roar,
I crouch behind my paper in the tram,
And listen to them all, and mutter “D—n!”
N.S.W.
EBENEZER COLDFEET.


There of *^e
who Viev sicK bed/
,
And Ho
H?y Hvxo trained
whilst' No
One. nny*
Poll on h»s Coffin
rrt eA
£)rre V’icTTno of
V&fc in
to
p« n
s*“* 5?
Home "f&v
\)You. < y
Voter—
Weaker
On'tSl oj^
J? 111 j)^f
"tooK uh ’
TO
t fe|l> S k «N«s+' HjeO
O^Je^
Rumored yoor>*> (
Worn&kY> who Hsvi recently
io be. *lO more when
lie*' To
Tb?
"Fu s ion’ ’
•« , o^s^y-
nius ‘s> J os^^
foT oj- cnbj>i-ed
infirm Fusionjsts
’mifenl or> SW'ftPi'?
tljje Country
THE HORRORS OF ELECTION DAY IN VICTORIA.
Ample evidence was forthcoming of the inhumanity of the Caucus party in abolishing the postal vote. Nearly every polling booth was visited by aged,. infirm persons.
who deemed it their duty to vote. Some of the cases were pathetic in the extreme. People were carried to the poll by ambulance, and recorded their votes painfully and with
assistance, whilst lying upon stretchers. All day wild weather prevailed, and for some of the brave-spirited, but physically-feeble, electors the enterprise was in
hazardous.— Melbourne ARGUS.


If you are
“Run Down”
TAKE
ANcier#mulsioN
Of Chemists, 1/3, 2/9 and 4/6.
Angier’s Emission promotes appetite, soothes and strengthens the
organs of digestion, overcomes nervous depression and builds up strength.
It is invaluable as a recuperative after illness and in all “rundown”
conditions and wasting diseases. For over twenty years Angier’s Emulsion
has been prescribed by the medical profession and used in the hospitals;
it is the most perfect and most palatable of all emulsions.
Send for Free Sample : enclose 4d. postage and mention this paper,
ANGIER CHEMICAL CO., 7 Barraok Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Don’t run away with the idea
chat “ SPARKLETS ” are only valu-
able in the summer. For instance,
whiskey is in season from January 1
to December 31, and the best of
whiskey is still better with the
addition of
“SPARKLETS”
TRY IT.
'ft
I
■
C. Syphons, 6/6.
B. Syphons, 4/-
B. Bulbs, 1/0 dozen.
C. Bulbs, 2/3 dozen.
ABORIN-
ALITIES
AN IRREMEDIABLE DEFECT.
NEW TEACHER: “What are you frowning at
me like that tor, Bobbie? Don't you like
my tie?”
BOBBIE: “Yep.”
N.T.: “Well, what is it you don't like about
me?"
BOBBIE : “ Yer face.”
Y and Dot ’: There is an egg-laying com-
petition in full blast at Burnley (Vic.) just at pre-
sent, and the team of hens which achieves the best
publication record for the week has the pleasure of
seeing its name in the papers. The teeming millions
who are interested in such things sufficiently to know
that “W.L.” means “White Leghorn,” arid “B.O.”
“Buff Orpington,” have no difficulty in ascertaining
which breed, tribe, caste or description of chook is
entitled to applause for securing the highest circula-
tion figures, but those to whom the abbreviations
convey nothing are in the dark.- Thus “R.C.8.L.”
may be translated as referring to some minor sub-
species of brown leghorn; but for what does “R.C.”
stand? This problem confronted a Melbourne news-
paper office the other day in the absence of the
poultry expert. The cable editor was certain that
“R.C.” meant “Roman Catholic,” and was prepared
to assert that these fowls were so called because
destined exclusively for the use of prelates of the
Romish Church. The news editor was inclined to
favor “Red Currant” for no particular reason except
that if red currant jelly went with mutton, it would
go equally well with poultry. The bird-lover and
nature study expert, who knew something of the en-
durance of winners of egg-laying tests, stood out for
“Reinforced Concrete.” When the poultry editor
returned and said that “R.C.” stood for “rose comb,”
he was thrown on to the discard spike for spoiling a
good news item.
[On the off-chance that a Federal candidate may
be in the habit of raising fowls the writer’s signature
is hereby nailed on —G. Innes, 148 Hotham-street,
East Melbourne.]
The Australian daily papers lately gave
way to a burst of unaccountable surprise
concerning a farmer named Archie Anderson
and an octopus. The former was fishing from
a boat in Wool Bay (S A.), and the latter was look-
ing for business in the locality about the same time.
Presently the octopus drew himself up to the gunwale
of the craft, and, observing a farmer, naturally pi.
ceeded to squeeze him to death. Fortunately, it was
an aged farmer who had been fighting the middle-
man all his life, so he was not to be unduly alarmed
by any of the family. One arm being free, he man-
aged to seize his knife and cut himself loose from the
bloodsucker s tentacles. It was a lucky escape; but
why should a thrill run through an enlightened
press? The story of a farmer who fought a desper-
ate battle with an octopus seems ridiculous. The
episode suggests that the middleman is doomed.
* *
“Inchiquin”: The par (B. 15/5/T3) re
the escaped elephant from Wirths’ reminds me of an
elephant I knew slightly about eight years ago in
Penang (Straits Settlements). I was at work upstairs
in a two-storey building, I remember. They were
transhipping elephants from one steamer to another,
both steamers being berthed against the wharf while
the job was in progress,-? One brute ran amok, and,
instead of taking his trunk aboard, careered through
the town, making explosive remarks about the consti-
tution. He started about 6.30 p.m., and wasn't cap-
tured till 34 hours later. In that time he had killed
two horses and one man, and had smashed two other
men so badly that they became the oldest inhabitants
of the hospital they were taken to. It was the night
of St. Andrew’s dance, but not a soul turned up till
after 10 p.m.—nobody seemed to fancy a dreamy
waltz with an infuriated Jumbo for a partner.
* * *
“A. Borig”: The Bulletin has already
mentioned the circular sent out by Cooma (N.S.W.)
urging municipal and shire councils to agitate so
that Poon Gooeys and other Chows might have their
lawful (or otherwise) wedded wives to live with
them in Australia. The best comment I’ve heard on
it fell like 2 tons scwt. Iqr. of bricks into our local
council meeting. The ancient shire grandfather put
it crudely, I’ll allow; but ours is a sheep district.
Said he: “What’s the use of talking? Here we’ve
been fighting for years to get a White Australia,
and we put a poll tax on the Chinaman to keep him
out, and blow me if these Cooma fellers don’t want
us to help ’em import pure stud ewes from China
and breed ’em here! Whatinblazes next, I wonder?’’
Silas Snell” : How is this for a miracle
of our time? They were sluicing- away the west face
of Gravel Hill at Petticoat, and getting a very pro-
fitable return. There was a clean, square, 40ft. face
on the hillside, and Billy Prytz at the nozzel, with
a terrific pressure running, was cutting the stuff out
in great, clean blocks, the thin, white, steel-like
stream of water slicing into the hill as a grocer’s
knife runs into a cheese. It was broad daylight ;
an early morning sun shone hotly on the wall of wet
earth, which was as straight and clean as the side
of a brick house. Sudden]}-, just above where the
stream was kicking a paddock out of the dirt, a man’s
body came through the solid face—a man’s body
clearly visible among the flying spume and gravel.
For a moment it hung, kicking at the wall, and then
came sprawling down with the rest of the wash, and
was half buried in the slurry and gravel below. For
a few moments Billy Pritz was paralysed with amaze-
ment, so that Rodda was half smothered before the
men fished him out. Happily for Rodda he had not
been punched by the stream, consequently his worst
injury was a broken rib. Leave the yarn there, and
it is preposterous. Without a miracle how are you
to account for the digging of a live man out of a
solid wall of gravel? The fact is, Rodda, who was
the prime “beat” of Petticoat, had discovered a
small tunnel in Gravel Hill, the mouth of which was
hid in scrub. It was his habit, when not praying for
cheap beer, to sleep away existence, curled up at the
warm end of this tunnel. Here the sluicing stream
had found him and cut him out with the rest of the
dirt.
“Ben Sun”: Strictly speaking, mallee
roots are not roots, but curly wood bulbs, some of
which grow to a great size. I know one from
which grow nine trees, all of them over. a foot in
diameter four feet from the ground. If this is
doubted I am willing to- forfeit the address of the
\egetables to any public hospital in Victoria.
THE INTRODUCTION. THE VISITOR AND THE AXE.
“Polstan”: Herewith a fearsome tale of
blud by the junior trumpeter, an aspiring author:
“Les parker lived in a big howse in the suberbs he
cort his wife by the hare save me. she screemed
woman youre done for rored les he luked abowt for
vveppin there was a bread-sore he grabed it by the
handel this is a kure for all ills as sir W. Hally said
laughed les it makes no krums. The core Woman
1 elled it was no good les put the 4 nelson on her
he rased the bread-sore it flashed down towards her
chest just at that momint a car ful of polise nine
of them dashed in the strete, it stopped, the polise
sprang owt they rushed into the howse the dore was
loked, bash it in said the sarjint. in a few minits
they were in the house weel just do it kried the
sarjint befor the breadsore fell they fell, on les he
fort like a deeming nocked the sarjint owt, the odds
is overpowring side parker, to hell with them he
grabbed a bit of batin and wade in touched them up
very much, The desprate Woman flung herself at
the polise taring at them with her nales (the trum-
peter has evidently been studying feminine nature)
bog into them les she screemed. for a hower they
batled then Les parker was overwelmed the batin
fell from is nervlis hand they put the darbys on to
him put him in the car, when they got in les got out
jabbed a nife in the tire and sprang on a parsing
kart there was blood everywere wen the polise was
left far beind les jumped off of the kart there was
a lorry parsing he hooked the darbies over the iron
thing stickin up at the back stood quite stil, the
horses strained and pulled broke the darbies ime free
once more laughed les har har. meenwile the polise
was onto his traks, he flew for his life a bobby
kried stop thief, out a me way owled Les he
sueksesfully stabed the polise with a nife o God ime
done sobed the polise, never said a trewer word in
your life replide les kicked him in the chops and
got. the chase now got hot the polise was gettin
annoyed with les. 1 polise fired a shot fritened h 1
into les he sprang like a antlope and disapered into
the darknes, a weak later his body might ave bene
sene wandrin all over the desert starved to deth in
the midst of plenty, serve him right said the
korroner murder will out.”
* * * *
“N. or M.”: Further burrowings, in the
wake of N.S.W. Entomologist W. W. Froggatt, in
pursuit of our pioneer rabbit. Chaplain Knopwood,
in 1804, mentioned a pie containing the first bunny
killed in Tasmania, but this was probably a hutch or
garden rabbit; for, if there were any liberated as
early as that, they would doubtless have been pro-
tected. In Victoria the rabbit in its maleficent aspect
is a comparatively recent development. There are
men still in middle life who can remember “catching
it” as boys for shooting the treasured importation.
The Tasmanian midlands, in their youth planted
gorse covers for the protection of bunny, and the
twin pests have since mopped up more Midland money
than the district cares to think of. The previously
mentioned volume, in the Mitchell Library, that sup-
plies the “first rabbit” information, tells of other
firstlings, one of which is the first Huon (they spelled
it Houin) pine found by Tasmanian settlers. Captain
Rhodes had taken a party down the Channel, and
they came back delighted, the chaplain bringing a
piece of,the wood with him. The first kangaroo
killed was an object of great interest, and its mea-
surements and peculiarities are all noted at length.
The first tiger-cat masqueraded as an “opossum,” but
the writer thought better of it later, and made a cor-
rection
Congolley” : I was unpacking a consign-
ment of draperies from Adelaide the other day, when
Georgie, my Binghi friend, came into the store. “Bet
you can’t tell me what this,” I said, holding up a
lady’s corset. Georgie never hesitated ; he had seen
something of civilisation. “I know,” he grunted,
with a delightful grin of recognition. “1 know. Put
’em on leg; play cricket.”
“Grey Gum”: There is one wild hilarious
joke that the Outbaeker claims for his own, and
that is to write on the back of a pound note, “The
last of 10,000; here’s luck to wine and women.”
Was pulling' beer in Cunnamulla some time since,
and in four months collected (no cash register
then) no less than 11 of these notes, being the
fragments of an expenditure of £350,000. If bush
requires a more spirited advertisement than
that I d like to be given a knock down to it.
* * * *
Maoriland, according to Professor
Percival, of Freiberg University, (Germany), who
recently overhauled the Shaky Isles, is likely to be
again violently disturbed in its innards—that is,
providing the “magnetic pull” gets on to the right
spot. The “pull” is the magnetic action of the sun
and moon working in cahoots, and if it happens to
grip a tender bit of the Earth’s epidermis something
generally shifts. The eruptions at Pompeii and
Herculaneum, at Krakatoa and at Martinique, and
the big storm that wiped off Galveston were all
caused, so the immeasurably learned German opines,
by the “pull.” Maoriland’s feeble place, on the
same authority, is along a line of fault running
from the middle of the Bay of Plenty right across
the North Island from north-north-east to south-
south-west. Tarawera formerly acted as a pore or
funnel, or safety valve for this eruptible region, but
the old crater is now filled up and presumably
extinct. Sooner or later a vent for the bottled-up
fever must be found. When or where is beyond
guessmg, but (and this is the Professor’s lastly) if
the “pull” ever gets to business anywhere there-
abouts a vent will arrive all right.
A ROMANCE.
S AMO: “If I was to kiss yer would yer yell?”
SUE: “Sure!”
S AMO: “But if yer did orl de tarts and blokes
'ud tumble.”
Sue : “Oh, git work! ’Ow would dey know
I'd bin kissed if I didn't.”
THE FAERY MOON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Have you seen the moon at Gordon—
The great round yellow moon—
That carries freight of children
At play in its balloon?
The old man cut his sticks awhile,
And then I saw it change—■
A great fat face peered down on me
As it cleared the treey range.
I saw the moon at Gordon,
It was all of faery lore,
The trees played hide and seek witli it,
The wind rushed up before.
A great big golden plate it was,
With weirdest pictures traced ;
My blood ran wild to read its tale—
Its face the mad leaves laced.
And sudddenly it shot right up
Above the tallest trees;
It leered at me—and winked at me—
’Twas not the leaves and breeze.
I stood and stared, it was so fine,
It looked like molten gold,
And then it seemed to thin and pale,
And weary grow, and old.
The face that was so red and fat
Was now a silver white,
And far and far away it went
Sailing into the night.
The dull, grey clouds came quickly up
And rapt it right away,
1 shivered then and ran inside—
I was afraid to stay.
N.S.W.
SYDNEY PARTRIGE.


TfIRRfINTS
MELBOURNE.
The BIGGEST & BUSIEST MOTOR HOUSE in Australia.
Enormous Stock of Accessories always on hand.
Builders of the Best Motor Bodies.
MOST UP-TO-DATE REPAIR WORKS.
'y'ARRANT MOTORS PTY. LTD.,
Agents in Victoria for Fiat, F.N., Ford, 8.5. A.,
Mercedes, Rover, Austro-Daimler, Sunbeam,
Adler, Commer, Thornycroft,
104-112 Russell St., and 186-192 Exhibition St., Melbourne.
'Phones—3o3o, 2942, 6280, 6534, 3100.
A
AN EPILEPTIC FIT.
A famous London physician, who for years
made a study of this disease, has, after a number of
experiments, found a prescription which affords re-
lief in almost a marvellous manner. This has been
put on the market by Mr. I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceu-
tical Chemist, of Belfast, under the name of
“Ozerine,” and the number of unsolicited testimonials
received speak well for its efficiency as a remedy
against this appalling disease. Your chemist can
easily get it for you.*
Napoleon said: “Imagination rules t e .
Anyone who by using creative imagination
or discovers a new or useful thing, or a " j oes
of doing some old thing; anyone, in s art, ' js
useful creative work, is an inventor,
drifting toward a machine-made millennium. -
and more will man’s work, and woman ’
done by machinery. An unimaginative pe-
not develop into an inventor. Phillips r #
Co. uatent attorneys, 17 Queen Street, 1 e
“J.M.”: Re Australia’s neglect of the
mule as a means of traction, referred to by
“Mimosa” (B. 24/4/T3). This arises, perhaps, from
contempt for the beast’s appearance and unnatural
origin. Forty or more years ago, a Victorian resi-
dent convinced himself that there would be bags of
profit in the raising of donkey-horses. He backed
his opinion by the importation of “jacks” from Spain,
Egypt and other places where popular sentiment sees
nothing repellent in miscegenation. Then, with good
Australian mares as the partners of his enterprise, he
set up a stud farm, and in due course had paddock-
fuls of angular, loping, long-eared hybrids. By-and-
bye, they were offered at auction. The public attended
in fair numbers, but manifestly only to regard the
goods as matter for bucolic gibe and jest. Not one
serious bid was made, and I suspect that the results
of the hybridising person’s speculation were accumu-
lated at a near-by boiling-down factory.
“Lagani Narno”: A magisterial station
has been opened at the Ivikori (Papuan) River (where
Staniforth Smith’s expedition got lost and nearly eaten,
some little time back). As a sort of introduction to
the neighborhood’s reputation 20 natives were killed
and lunched upon, within an hour’s journey of the
new establishment soon after its completion. Goari-
bari Island, where L. M. Society’s missioners Chal-
mers and Tompkins were butchered, about eight years
ago, can be located from the new station when the
wind is S.E. Nothing is known of the natives on the
mainland hereabouts, save that they are cannibals
and fairly numerous, and officers on this station will
probably find life interesting.
CAN AUSTRALIANS RIDE?
COOLANGATTA LIZZIE : “Stick to the pigskin,
Billy. Show 'em newchum Australian
phelia ride plenty wild phelia buckjumper."
“Bulloak" : There are only two blacks of
the Coorong (S.A.) tribe now left at McGrath’s Flat,
where 1200 used to gather for corroborees. These two
are Jack Morris and his wife Nellie. Once, when
there were about a dozen still in the camp, this pair
got some neck salve from Meningie. The boss of the
station where they lived could see things were hum-
ming in the camp about half a mile away, and
thought he and his brother should walk down and
interfere. However, as they saw the gentle Nellie
waving a tomahawk and a bottle, they decided to go
down with the buggy instead and bring the lady to
the chaff-house to sleep it off. After a little persua-
sion, etc. (chiefly etc.), she was got into the buggy
and taken to the station. On getting out she stum-
bled and fell. Pushing herself up with the boss’s
assistance, she turned on him, calling him all the
names she had acquired or inherited, stopping only
from want of ammunition. Then she remembered a
final paralyser. Glaring at him she drew herself up
as well as she could and fired it off. “You—you—
plurry old woman!’ she shrieked.
ABORALIAN LOGIC.
BOSS: “I hear you made a beast of yourself yesterday, Billy."
BILLY: “Well, I couldn't 'a' bin so berry drunk, after all, boss. A beast knows when to
stop, mine thinkit. An’ I stopped."
“Button-stick”: I can’t give “Jain Tin”
any accredited instance of moon-blindness as re-
quested (B. 6/2/’l3), but I can help him to a heap
of doubt as to whether there is any such thing. I’ve
slept out in various parts of Australia and Maoriland
in moonlight that was brilliant enough to read the
Scriptures by, and I never got any madder, and I
never got my face twisted in
worse knots than usual. During
the S’African performance I
hardly slept under cover of any
sort, and the moon there is like
a searchlight on the veldt. Yet I
never was moon-struck. More than
that, I never heard of any man
faring worse than I. As tents
were an unknown luxury and an
unmitigated nuisance all through
the ordinary dry weather, there
were thousands of tons of men
snoozing and snoring in the
moonlight, and if ever a moon
had a chance to play tricks it
was there. But I never heard a
hint of a suspicion of a shadow
of a rumor of a whisper of such
a thing. Nevertheless, I know
plenty of bushmen and outback-
ers who wouldn’t risk slumber-
ing in the moonbeams; and any
ocean-liner passenger who lugs a
blanket to the boat-deck and pro-
ceeds to camp in the cool and
the moonlight may be reason-
ably sure of a warning from
some seasoned salt, who will spin
a bloodcurdling yarn of someone
or other who woke in the moon-
light with a face distorted like
the truth in a company-promot-
ing prospectus, and a mind full of fantods. Is
there anything in it but superstition?
“Rob”: Ilori was noted for the intensity
of his sprees, and more particularly for the diaboli-
cal character of the mischief he committed when he
was well primed and seeking entertainment. He was
a big, lovable, improvident Maori who had never
missed a race meeting nor refused a drink. The
Palmerston races were duly attended by Hori, who
took with him also a cheque for £27 and a
thirst he would not have sold for gold or precious
stones. He spent a glorious day, and turned up in
the evening at the railway station ripe for devil-
ment. His eye fell on two trains, one headed north
for Wanganui, the other south for Levin, and
backed so close that their guards’ vans almost
touched. Hori slipped unobtrusively off the plat-
form, coupled the two vans, and waited for the
guard’s whistle. When it came, and one of the
engines gave a preliminary puff, Hori laid his um-
brella upon the platform as a mark, waved a hand-
ful of notes around his head, and shrieked: “I back
te plurry Wanganui! I back te plurry Wanganui!”
When the Levin train had ceased its surprising move
backwards, and the railway officials had regained con-
trol of themselves, Hori was enthusiastically
arrested. “Five pounds or one month,” was the
decision of the Court.
“Nip” : In pre-Commonwealth days Samuel
Morgan was collector of imposts at a punt crossing
over the Murray in a very remote and lonely spot.
A cutting leading down the bank to the punt separ-
ated Morgan’s office and living room from the humpy
occupied by Theophilus Duggan, the puntman. At
midnight on 31st January, in the year eighteen
hundred and blank, Morgan was just finishing a
monthly return when he happened to glance up at
the window over his writing-table. Dugald 1* ergus
Mclntosh Thompson’s face was staring at him.
Dugald was a farmer, and a frequent visitor to Mor-
gan’s office. They were firm friends. Samuel Mor-
gan went to the door to ask Dugald the why and
wherefore of his late visit and his neglect to come
in. No Dugald was there. Morgan walked round
the building. Still a great scarcity or famine of
Dugald. Returning to the he found the
face as before. the lack of Dugald
he roused Duggan from his slumbers. Theophilus
cursed richly as he went to investigate. He saw
exactly what Morgan could see. They tried shifting
books, etc., to solve the mystery. They discussed
refraction and co-ordination. The face remained.
The nearest house was a quarter of a mile away.
Duggan tramped up there to fetch further witnesses.
Frederick Burston, Herman O’Brien and Demetrius
McPherson, the publican, finally agreed to accept
Duggan’s assurance that it wasn’t the whisky this
time. Arrived at the Customs Office, they each and
all viewed Dugald’s face at the window. Every sug-
gestion was tried, but they could not shift the face.
Demetrius McPherson stood at the window outside
and put his face just where Dugald’s was, but failed
to obliterate the shadow. About 3 a.m. they gave it
up, and all retired. About 10 o’clock next morning
a neighbor of Dugald’s crossed the punt en route to
the undertakers. He casually remarked that Dugald
was found drowned that morning in a dam near his
house. Last seen alive at about midnight. Now,
why did he spend his first night as a corpse gazing
in at Samuel Morgan’s window ?
* * * *
“Gouger” : Known to very few is a dance
held on special occasions by the Musgrave aborigines
of York Peninsula. The natives stonily deny any
knowledge of the dance, as they believe great evil
would befall them should a white man witness the
special, corroboree. The “star” performer is clad
in a cunningly-made gown of ti-tree bark, reaching
to his feet. His arms are bare when outstretched,
but when held down at his sides they are hidden by
hundreds of strands of interwoven fibre. His face is
concealed by a wooden nlask, decorated with splashes
of earthy pigments. Two rude horns protruding from
the top of the mask complete the make-up. A recent
Protector of Aborigines tried hard to add this dress
to his collection of curios, offering the stupendous
price of seven bags of flour, two cases of tobacco, one
box of pipes, one tomahawk, and as many beads and
knives as the tribe could carry away. But without
avail. It was only through the aid of a stockman
on Musgrave station, by name Costello, that the
existence of the dress was proved. His own black-
boy, described by the tribe as mad, showed him the
costume one day hidden in the bank of a creek.
Costello would not touch it, for at times he de-
pended on some of the blacks to give him a hand
mustering cattle. A long time later, the blackboy,
snatching a good opportunity, stole the outfit, made
a bee line for the station, and arrived with the whole
furious tribe slinging spears through his heel-dust.
Thus the Protector got the holy clobber. Dunno
what the black burglar got, but it was nothing to
what he’ll get if some Binghis I know come up with
him.
* # * *
Nairne (S.A.) has a strange landmark, to
which every visitor is conducted. It consists of a
marble column about 20ft. high, with an inscription
on it in German. The native explains that, years
ago, a German family lived in a house not far dis-
tant, and father, when riding home one night, was
thrown by his horse and landed on his head on the
spot where the monument now stands. The visitor
then realises that the inscription, being interpreted,
means “here’s where father broke his neck.” It is
a weird way of handing father’s memory down to
posterity, but it is a success.
THE GRAMMATICAL CANNIBAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Rev. Frank Gillan, addressing the Presby-
terian Assembly in Melbourne the other day, claimed
that cannibalism was still rampant in the New
Hebrides “I dare not describe how women are
treated by the Malekulu people These cannibals
ftse grammatical distinctions, and are capable of
rising to greatness.”
At meals the Malekulu man
No human leg, or rib, or wing shuns ;
But when he dines will always plan
To use grammatical distinctions.
He doesn’t ask his wife to “sling
The grub along,” and coarsely damn her,
But does the proper, high-toned thing
And at the end his grace will sing,
Employing simply perfect grammar.
There’s comfort for young clerics here,
Who in a Malekulu pie land:
They may be eaten, that is clear,
But on this distant, heathen island,
When sentence is pronounced on one
’Twill parse, and satisfaction reaches
The prey who knows that when he’s done
In classic eloquence will run
The simple, after-dinner speeches.
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.
The Wail of a Teacher.
“V.,” his outpouring : —-
The Ma State’s Public Instruction Department is still
suffering from the mishandling it received for so
many years from “Liberal” administration, and
although Minister Carmichael has made improve-
ments, there is still room for energetic renovating
The teachers' training system has broken down com-
pletely. Once it attracted students, but it doesn’t
now —-male students, at any rate.
When Prof. Mackie assumed control in 1907, the
institution had accommodation for 150 male students
who qualified for admission as a result of a competi-
tive examination after finishing the pupil teachers’
four years’ course. This quota was easily maintained
for a couple of years, and as many were turned awav
as were admitted. In 1912, however, less than 30
male students entered the college. Thus, whereas in
1907 the State had an adequate supply of young
teachers to pick its trainees from (the rejects'i cing
deputed to bush school work), in 1912 it had to look
around for individuals to whom it might virtually
■present scholarships, but a mere handful of budding
pedagogues was garnered in. The authorities are
now in the position of having to recruit the teach-
ing service from any material —a lot of it mighty
useless —that offers.
These are the reasons: During the last five years
the pupil-teacher system has been gradually abol-
ished, and the probationary-student system substitu-
ted for it. Pupil teachers entered the service at the
age of 16 or 17, and received a salary from the
jump. It wasn’t a stupendous salary, but it sufficed
for their keep. There was never at any time a
dearth of pupil teachers, and the Training College
couldn’t admit half the number of ex-pupil teachers
who applied for a course in the institution. The
probationary student also starts at the age of 16,
but for two years he receives no salary at all. Then
he enters the Training College for an additional two
or three years. Until very recently students in train-
ing were divided into three grades, receiving
allowances of £5O, £2O and nothing per annum, re-
spectively. Thus, a person who wished to enter the
teaching service was positively certain to earn no-
thing before the age of 18, and also stood a big risk
of having to sponge on his relatives for his entire
keep until he reached the age of 20 or 21. This year
all the students at Blackfriars College are receiving
£5O per annum, but the mischief already done has
been very extensive, and it will take a lot to attract
the brainy youth of this State towards the Service
again. Anyhow, £5O per annum will not keep a
student whose parents do not reside in Sydney.
Most of the students who leave Mackie’s hands
have qualified, provisionally, for a 2a certificate,
which, after four years, will bring them in £2lO per
annum, if the inspectors or the office clerks —or who-
ever it is that works the system—do not out them
at the end of a two vears’ trial.
Suppose a person fails to get a 2a skill-mark, he
probably receives a 26. The very next year he may
receive a 2a skill-mark, but it is no good to him.
He must proceed by annual increments to the 26
maximum of £lB6, and then wait four years before
he can get (with luck) a 2a certificate. A 46-mark
is required for a 2a, and from 35 to the maximum
45 carries a 26. If a man fails by one mark (1 per
cent.) to get the certificate he is after, his promotion
is delayed four years thereby. It is the abnormal
number of these one-mark failures that make one
suspect the Education Department is not as honest
as it alleges it is.
The news is made public that another
tremendous block is about due on the N.S.D.
railways. Nobody who has studied local condi-
tions expected anything else. When, for in-
stance, a train coming from the far south
has to drag produce 400 miles for shipment
at Sydney, though the goods might,_ but for
the One Big City policy, be shipped at
Twofold Bay, perhaps 100 miles away, it
is bound, as a mere matter of distance, to
be about four times as long as it need be m
coming back for a fresh load in other
words, the vehicle can only carry one-tourtn
as much as it should do. And when, by
reason of the One Big City policy, it meets
all the trains in the State hustling in the
same direction as itself it is certain to be
further delayed. And when all the export-
able produce of a huge State is dashed down
on the edge of one harbor the wharf be-
comes so overcrowded that Johnson has to
turn the train out to grass—the train that,
even at its best, can only, by reason or
congestion, do a quarter of the work it
should do—and tell it not to work at ail
till the muddle clears up- Meanwhile the
farmer’s produce rots. And it serves the
farmer right for not putting up, in ever
agricultural constituency, an anti-Conges-
tion candidate. The Lord looks after ~
bucolic who helps himself, and the devil
takes the hindmost bucolic.
♦
“Pink Tape” : Observe what is happening
in N. S. Wales Public Service. The promo-
tion scheme in the junior grades works out
this way:— ......
Entrance after exam., £5O; after Ist year, a a,
2nd, £9O; 3rd, £ll6 (stiff exam, here), «n,
£130; sth, £145; 6th, £160; 7th, £]6o
£180; 9th, £180; 10th, £200; or £2OO after
two exams and 10 years’ service.
Right! But the Service is drying up at its
source. At the present moment shorthand
writers in the departments are at a pre
and very often they are of more im
portance than that tremendous brass gom
the messenger. To grapple with the
tion the P.S. Board is advertising for can
didates for shorthand-writing jobs woru
(the jobs) £2OO. Candidates are asked to
pass an exam, equal to the en 7
exam. (£5O job), plus a very easy short
hand test. Now what youth with enog
intelligence to boil stamps will P r s se F t • in(T
self for a £5O job with a prospect of rising
to £2OO in ten years after fighting two sun
campaigns with the ex , ai ? ll i®r S _ „,ph
lie can. by a few weeks batt j in ,f neers
Pitman’s system of pothooks and hang
draw his £2OO right note? I know o Q ,
a dozen youths already in the servic ,
sadly humping the heat and burden o
swag towards their first or second ri ,
have resolved to take the short cut a
brushing up their shorthand so that •
may draw £4 a week each. There mus
hundreds of such, and soon there w
any one left to accept less than that
run little errands for the senior cler •
for the language of the 10-year &
brigade who have got to £-00 after ,
life time and who find that t boys c a
by the commercial “colleges are % e ■
similar wage after 10 minutes s
well, the burning of Moscow was a
comparison.


A Beer-set Famtasy
(For the BULLETIN)
At beer-set, by the silent sea.
The gentle pub lay calm and still.
No sound ot breakers came to me.
One cow was standing on the hill;
l gazed across a pewter’s crown
And saw the crimson beer go down.
Crimson the passing liquid seemed.
Perchance my eyes were out of gear.
The last drops on my vision gleamed—
A single flash of gory beer—
Torn remnant of a mighty flood
That left my reputation Mud.
The last tray-bit was overdrawn.
An empty soul was mine and blank;
I was as owe who with a prawn
Stands fishing on the ocean's bank.
And finds the waters run away
’ Through holes of some wild yesterday.
The waters run. He stands at gaze,
His frightened whiskers round him curled.
The while the liquid gurgling strays
Clean through the bottom of the world.
Till, as his heavy fears increase.
He runs hot-foot tor the police.
stands
ocea rt 5
fco^K
I did not go for the poUce,
But merely wandered far away
To where a gentle oyster lease •
Was sitting in the sleeping bay.
And there I saw a lady stand
With four large bottles in her hand.
Her Ups were red. her looks were free.
Her eyes were dark as my despair.
And when she turned and smiled at me
The beer-light shimmered on her hair:
For quiet evening seemed to flow
Around her with its amber glow.
I wore a corkscrew next my heart,
And when she sought my kindly aid
Some infant blushes seemed to start
And ripple round the pleasant maid:
Her bottles were replete with stout.
The oysters lived some distance out.
Some oysters died to serve our need,
VVe sampled what the bottles held,
The sun sank in the west with speed.
The dusk of evening grew and sweUed.
And 1 was sitting by the sea
With a nice girl upon my knee.
'she 500^5 WT
K\ndVy
aid "
(£)
I s<3v>-<J 3~
Sfhnd>
The moon came up the eastern stair
And splashed some fire across the deep.
And moonbeams clinging to her hair
Rolled in its coils and went to sleep.
With stout and simple oysters fed
The happy moments lightly sped.
Then nothing happened for a while,
Except that as the world went round
The sportive ocean seemed to smile
And wavelets made a pleasant sound.
But, as her Ups were good to kiss.
Stirring events 1 did not miss.
And nothing happened after that.
Except that as the night grew cold
I sheltered underneath her hat
And clasped her with a tighter hold.
For we were quite a mile from town
And half her hair had fallen down.
1 fancy that we might have stayed
Some little time beside the sea.
But suddenly my dimpled maid
Arose and vanished utterly;
She vanished like a piece of beer
When hot thirst breathes upon its ear.
1 nevjer knew a thing occur
That made me feel so much surprise.
I knew 1 had not eaten her.
Although the sweetness of her eyes
One moment past had made me think
She might be very nice to drink.
1 turned the matter o’er and o’er;
Her hat. her hair, her blush were gone.
The red delight her hot mouth wore
Had simply fluttered further on.
She had not left one corset-lace
Or any portion of her face.
utteigi
All night 1 sat upon a stone
Bike some deserted wedding guest.
I felt so very much alone
My faded spirit could not rest.
But when the morning light was clear
My heavy thoughts returned to beer.
The grey light dappled all the sky.
Some oyster shells my eye did greet.
Four dead marines were somewhere nigh.
The sand held traces of her feet.
And. sprinkled lightly all around.
Small, crinkled hair-pins strewed the ground.
Far from the breaking of the foam.
While all my heart within me burned,
In the direction of my home
My slow and weary steps I turned;
And when the beer arose I said:
“Some doctor must explore my head!”
But this is what still makes me sad,
And cannot be explained away:
If on that evening I was mad.
Why did the four stout bottles stay?
And who, however much insane,
Ever dropped hair-pins from his brain?
N.s.w.
CURSE O' MOSES.


Martin’s Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. Ladies recommend
them. Be sure yon get the genuine with the
signature. Martin, Chemist. Southampton.*
GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
SKIN DISEASES,
Including- Eczema, Pimples, Rashes, Boils, Chilblains,
Ringworm, Shingles, Ulcers. Old Sores, have their
remedy in Rexona, the Rapid Healer. Sold in trian-
gular pots at Is. 6d. and 3s. Obtainable everywhere.*
IT WORKED WONDERS.
“While ploughing- I was seized with influenza,”
writes Mr. M. J. McAvady, Ohura, N.Z. “I went
to bed and was so ill next day that I called in the
doctor. He prescribed for me, but his medicine did
no good. A friend recommended me to try Cham-
berlain’s Cough Remedy, and I did. It worked
wonders, and I was able to resume my ploughing in
a few days.”*
WORLD-FAMED
HATS.
For
QUALITY.
1 For
DURABILITY.
“Sacks”: Re “Ginger” and “MickoV , n ar^ e
ments on sack-sewing behind a chaff cutter
last three editions of The Bulletin. ®° arni iv I's 1 ' s
forth a fair argument on the virtues of _
sacks, and their suitability for the ' vor * < ' j . i
worked with Smith’s sacks, and other br >
plump for “Smith’s sacks” every time. „
about to explain that which “Ginger and ,
failed to do, i.e., why Smith’s sacks are t
Smith’s sacks are the best because they „
fully graded and they are easier to hancue, “„ v
more, and they look better when stacked. an j
sack-sewer in Coolamon what sack he P re _ e
he’ll say Smith’s Brand XX. Consult r.
Co., Sack Specialists, Sussex-st., Sydney.
IT’S LIKE PLAYING HAMLET a j> d .! ea ™ n & O Xi
the Prince of Denmark to buy Pendup^* j'f
not supplied with “Zanetie” Pen-copying P' P • ,
security is valued, and permanency of C °PL , " w ;th
it is VITAL to be sure you are
“Zanetie.” Copies that fade are useless. j a tter
paper ensures permanency of copy, whilst ,
is denser and more distinct than the origin • ,
Stationers, or from Makers, S. B. Zanetie, f ree .*
road, Leicester, England. Sample sheet, -d. p
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Australian art suffered a great loss by
the recent death in Melbourne of Ambrose
Dyson at the early age of 37. He was born
at Ballarat (Vic.) and was a member of a
highly-gifted family. One brother, Edward
Dyson, has probably been longer before the
public as a writer of verse, tales and other
literature than any other man in Australia
—in fact, he was a favorite Bulletin
writer about the time when the present
editor joined the staff as a junior—and yet
his amazing variety holds out. One reason
is that he started when very young. Another
brother —Will Dyson, artist, now making a
splash in the Bull country—is almost
equally well-known. Ambrose, deceased,
was an artist of no small calibre, but he
was the luckless member of the clever
brotherhood. Providence gave him every-
thing he could reasonably want except a
fairly strong constitution. If he could have
sold half his brains and bought a new heart
and a fresh outfit of lungs with the money
the world would have gone better with him.
He was laid up for the last two years of
his life, and the doctors labelled his final
trouble as pneumonia. They might have
struck the truth better if they had said
that the Institution Which Runs the Show
started Ambrose Dyson with a very large
intellectual boiler and not sufficient fuel in
the shape of physical vitality to keep the
furnace going. So he wore out early.
THE HALF-LOAFERS.
Whilst he thanked them for returning the Liberals
in a majority in the House of Representatives, he
was not at all certain that he was not entitled to
sympathy when they came to consider the position
of the Liberals in the Senate —six lonely men on one
side and 30 on the other. — Senator MILLEN on the
political situation.
AUSTRALIA: “Anyway, it’s more than they
deserve. They only gave me half a tariff
between them.”
[FRED BROWN, Brown, Kogarah, N.S.W.]
J. H. Lyons, who died the other day in
Adelaide, aged 58, was one of the bright
young men who staffed the high schools of
S. Australia 25 years ago. His brother, T.
W., was music and singing master at most
of those schools, and incidentally ran a
choral society. Younger brother J. PI.
stage-managed for him and for the Garrick
Dramatic Club. He drifted further and
further into that work, and quitted his desk
at Whinham College, and when he produced
“The Brigands of Barcelona,” an opera, it
looked as though he was going to have a
future. But it wasn’t what it promised to
be, and he spent most of the rest of his
days as dramatic coach and teacher of
singing.
James Ilebbard, president of the Mining
Engineers, who have been holding their an-
nual clamor at Broken Hill, was one of
the party of miners taken from Victoria to
first open up the Broken Hill mine 28 years
ago. Ilebbard, then a Bendigo youngster,
who had been to the local School of Mines,
went along as shift-boss. After a while he
was passed into the Mines Department as an
inspector, and it was while he was at this
job that he specialised in timbering and
other methods of propping up the crust of the
earth. The Sulphide Corporation, which
had a heap of J. Bull’s money behind it,
was having dreadful trouble with its under-
ground workings, which would perish and
collapse ; so Ilebbard was roped in at about
three times the salary the State thought he
was worth. Judging by the things the share-
holders say now at their meetings, when
they get their 20 or 25 per cent, dividends,
they don’t think they made a bad bargain
to start with.
THE MAN WITH THE FACE
FOLIAGE.
One noticeable- feature of the Australian Birthday
honors is that, with the single exception of the emi-
nent surgeon who has been knighted, all the titles
and decorations have gone to politicians and mem-
bers of the colonial and Imperial Government ser-
vices. No one is likely to raise any question as to
the merit of these recipients, but equally no one
can deny that there are representatives of other
spheres of activity and life who should be recognised
on occasions like this. — Sydney Telegraph.
Not a word in the cables about Whiskers
Ward!
Of the 29 persons sent by Victoria to the
first Federal Parliament just 12 years ago
only one —Frank Tudor—still holds his seat.
Death has claimed a few ; others, like Simon
Fraser, Deakin and Geo. Turner, have
voluntarily stepped down, but mostly the
electors have passed them out. None of the
other States has changed its mind so com-
pletely. Even Tassy and Westralia still
own four of their original 11 members. This
time Victoria dropped three besides Deakin
—Carty Salmon, Quick and Robt. Harper,
though Harper, left without his wiped-out
Mernda seat, could, and should, and would
have had the safe Henty perch had he
owned more cheek and less brains.
[F. C. Jones, Elgar-road, Burwood, Victoria.]
The policy of driving capital out of the
country, and making Australia unbearable
to the “better” classes, hasn’t worked in
the case of Carmichael, lately Governor of
Victoria. He actually confesses to a great
yearning to get back to Australia, where
the social conditions delighted him beyond
measure, and the boiled mutton was. singu-
larly toothsome. The chances are that,
when Carmike desists from official pursuits,
he will make himself a permanency in this
country, and chance n ll its horrors.
“Occy”: Picturesque Dr. Maloney beat
the erstwhile Laborite, Miss Mulcahey, for
the Melbourne seat by about 11,000 votes.
I was a poll clerk in that constituency,
and nearly every woman who entered the
booth made no secret of the fact that she
came to make the sign of the cross in the
doctor’s interest. Dozens and dozens came
in with the question— I “Which is the little
doctor’s table?” One big lady halted at
my table, and when, with my roll before
me, I inquired, “What name?” she answered,
“Maloney.” I looked up the Maloneys, and
the Moloneys, but couldn’t trace her. “Your
name is not on the roll, madam,” says I.
“But I know it is,” says she. “What’s
your Christian name?” says I. “Bridget
Mary,” says she. “Well,” says I, “I’ve tried
the Maloneys with the a’s and the Moloneys
with the o’s, and I can’t find it. How do
you spell it?” “O’Keefe,” says she, spelling
out each letter separately. “Oh!” says I,
“I beg your pardon. Here you are,” and she
voted. But as she moved away she flung
this at me—“Ye little divil, ye tried to
chate me of me vote—ye Mulcahey man!”
Justice Hood, of Melbourne, was a good
all-round man at the Bar, and did his share
of the dock business. But one thing always
worried him. When a criminal case was
brought to him he had ever one
line to lisp. “What did the
man say when arrested?”
Attorneys* and policemen
noticed this, and a pressman
once asked Hood why he was
so particular about that ques-
tion. “Because,” said the
future Judge, “it’s always a
difficulty to get rid of what the
fool says when he’s nabbed.”
Now Hood is a Judge, and the
other day. Chia was tried be-
fore him for firing at the
Chinese Consul, in Melbourne.
Counsel for prisoner did his
best to make light of the inci-
dent, but evidence was given
that when Chia was arrested he
said he wanted to kill the
Consul. Whereupon Hood pro-
bably remembered his own old
horror, and sympathised with
the counsel who had to come
into court hobbled beyond hope.
“Truthful James”: I nomi-
nate Jimmy Macginty, of
Waratah, Tasmania, as the most ancient
Australian prospector in active service. He
is 76 years of age and has scratched in the
rivers of Tas. and Maoriland since he was
17. At present he is on the Osmiridium
field, near Waratah.
“I wish I’d been behind the door when
Holman had his interview with the King,”
said the new uppah-class member for North
Sydney in his address at Manly. Let’s see
—is it Colonel Ryrie or Key-hole Ryrie?
[S. H. Prior, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
Justice Street took off the gloves in
Sydney Bankruptcy Court last week, and
Frank Denison Brown was knocked out.
Brown came to Australia a good many
years ago as general manager for the Singer
Sewing Machine Co. on a small salary and
a large commission, subsequently turned
into a large salary (£4000) a year, with
liberal extras. The co., an American con-
cern, apparently didn’t worry about any-
thing but large profits, and as Brown was
making large profits such trifling things as
audits were neglected, and the machinery
ran loose. While the G.M. was away in
India things got looser than usual, and the
accountant disappeared, leaving a hole in
the cash. Then Brown wrote a damning
letter, which didn’t get burned as he sug-
gested. Criminal proceedings followed and
failed ; and then the gentleman who couldn’t
get through on £4OOO a year and extras had
to toe the line in bankruptcy. It was the
Registrar’s day for being affable, and he
said that 24 hours’ suspension would meet
the case. But when, on appeal, the Judge
glued his eye on the damning letter before
mentioned. Brown’s cake was dough: in-
solvent had been “guilty of misconduct of
so grave a character in connection with his
management of the affairs of the Singer
Sewing Machine Co. as to render it quite
out of the question that the Court should
grant him a certificate of discharge and
send him forth into the world again stamped
with its approval as a man of sufficient com-
mercial morality to be allowed to trade and
to mix, with honest traders as one of them-
selves.” So. on present appearances, one
ot the best-known men in the city goes
under, indefinitely, and Justice Street re-
stores the _ prestige of the Bankruptcy Court
as an institution for doing a bit for commer-
cial morality when the chance comes its
way.
“Melb’s” appreciation:—
PRICKER, Editor
of the Australasian.
The general public
got a surprise when ft
found the name of Es
ward Carlile, K.C., of
Melbourne, in the 1$
of King s Birthday
honors. Carlile, K 0
-who’s he? Ab £
lutely, I say, the
valuable civil servant
\ mtoria ever had. As
i iA laln e n t arv
draughtsman, he is th P
literary author 7<
nearly 1500 Ac ts, or
two-thirds of all He
drew up altogethe
about 3000 Bilk
Within the past gen
eration there has been
less driving of coaches
and horses through
Acts of Parliament in
Victoria than in any
other State of th e
globe. No man can
lay a finger on a sig.
nal mistake of Car
ble’s. On the other
hand, look at the
awful smashes before
he took up the work
At the age of 15 he
started in the
draughtsman s office
and focussed the lens
of his useful genius on
blocking roguish law-
yers. He began to see
the bearings just when
the most terrible
b ungl i ng occurred.
This was over the
O’S h a n a s s y - Duffy
Land Act, under which
the cream of Victoria
was dummied by
squatters. Duffy was
sin c e re, O’Shanassy
doubtful; but Attor-
ney-General Dick Ire-
land had no lynx-eyed
Carlile to stop him
furnishing the Act with
cavities and chasms. Carlile retired in 19X0, and
there was somewhat of a howl over his £9OO per
annum pension, but every member of every Cabinet
knew the value of this Great Unknown.
The alleged stolid calm and level-headed-
ness of John Bull and his wife, Jane Cow,
are becoming depreciated by the doings of
the militant suffrage women of Old England.
Certainly, the right of Jane Cow to possess
a vote is one that no Australian can dispute,
but when a suffrage woman rushed into the
middle of the Derby, and hung herself on to
the bridle of a horse, to the great alarm and
danger of the animal, it seemed unreason-
able. The horse hadn’t a vote, either, and
this attack by one voteless creature on an-
other has no element of sanity about it. A
miserably trodden-on woman with a univer-
sity degree was taken to the hospital
as the result of this freak, and died
there. Another act which is regarded
as over the odds is the nouring of
vast quantities of dye into the reservoirs at
Bradford. Bradford is a manufacturing
town, where the mass of the people are very
poor, very badly housed, and none too well
supplied with water. And the larger part of
the population consists of voteless women.
When the fluid on which these women de-
pend for an occasional wash and a chance to
boil the family vegetables—they don’t run
very much to meat, except in the way of
bones and scraps —was made unfit for use.
there must have been a fine, large anger in
Bradford.
SAME OLD PARTY GAME.
For there is now ample evidence before him, ami
before everyone else, that the Labor party represents
only a minority of the electors of this State...
sending in his own resignation, which carries with
it that of the Government, he will do what is, under
the circumstances, no more than the decent thing.
Were the Caucus to show any genuine respect for tn
principles about which it prates, etc. Sydney
Telegraph.
“Ahem, my friend , you are hardly a fit and
proper person to be trusted with that,
now , if”
“Lud” :
The cable announced the death of Coutts I'jndsa)
on May 7, and the fact that he was not the widower
people thought a few days later. This must
been a bitter blow to his expectant relatives, 10
was very rich. Coutts Lindsay built the Grosv ■ „
Gallery, New Bond-street, London. As the 1
haunt of the very Intense, it was satirised by
bohm Tree’s Basil Giorgione, in the P la y 01 .
Colonel” ; also, in Gilbert and Sullivan s rat >
where Grosvenor is palpably Oscar Wilde,
of the Gallery. The musical finale in Patience n *
a reference to the “ Greenery-yallery Grosveno
lery young man.”
CHEERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On making his appearance on the platform Mr.
Cook was cheered for nearly a minute. — News item.
“Hip! Hip! Hooray!” “’Ere, ’ear!” “Goo’
man!” “Good on yer!” “Wow!” “Brarvoe!”
“Ye’ve got ’em ’ipped this time!” “GOO’ MAN!”
“’IP! ’IP! —” “Good on yer, Joe!”
See what it is to be a conquering Lib’ral stalwart!
Yes,
To stand up like a statesman by a sea of happiness,
And see them fling themselves about, and grow
extremely red
With howling, till the waves of sound beat on your
shining head !
To note with care how long it takes for them to
blow off steam,
Before they sit and smile like folk new-risen from
a dream !
Ah, Life in moments most sublime has godlike
spasms in it —-
For instance, when you’re madly cheered for one
wild, raving minute.
“’lp! ’lp! ’Ooray!” “Good on yer, Cook!”
“You’ve got ’em dished!” Ah, well!
He worked for ev’ry brolly-thump and sweated for
each yell.
Now if not absolutely It, at least he must be Next;
So in their courses tranquil stars are by the clamor
vext.
A moment’s trampling in the waste —a sixty-seconds’
scream,
Then Joe with his majority of (what?) must face
the stream.
And oh! the sweat will drip upon each rower's
bursting chest —■
That is, providing he obtains the slave-job he loves
best.
“Hip! Hip! Hooray!” “Good on yer, Joe!” The
Lib’ral howls again !
It’s splendid, yes! But afterwards—! Ah, well, of
course ! What then ?
N.S.W.
O. PUBLICITY (successor to the late
Mr. Anon).
THE EAR-BITER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
London, May 29. —The Standard of Empire says:
“Mr. Deakin’s prediction that Mr. Watt was a man
to whom London would listen has been fulfilled. Not
since Mr. Deakin’s eloquence charmed home audiences
has an Australian statesman been heard here who
could exercise the power which Mr. Watt has
shown.”
London, June 2. —The Victorian Premier, Mr. W.
A. Watt, has arranged for the issue of a loan of
£3,000,000 at a minimum of 98, and the rate of
interest is 4 p.c. p.a.
With jaunty air and pleasant smile,
The cadger seeks his prey;
Upon it from behind he stalks,
Greets it effusively, and talks,
In quite a winning way,
Of friendship such as never dies,
And loyalty and crimson ties!
His well-oiled tongue runs smoothly, like
A high-class gramophone;
His point he leads to bit by bit,
Then craves (he hates to mention it),
An—er —a trifling loan !
His Ma it is, I grieve to write,
Whose aged ear he seeks to bite l
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


RUGS!
5 ■ f
Q
*»Vv\V
M
h
■ Ye
to 1
-s
111®
mm
£■< SrAJkJfeS
-
*v r •
a£
“•
JHK.’
Ck
Pl#i
Pm
W$
:U;
?•£; • c
%,';.'Ay
mm
Yf.
aßmmt
r*x •
{rSf-.p
o*k£;*
y<7:
• •• •
I*
•> : v.‘
.': **•.«
EM
»
i S‘vS.’
IS®
■ jpfiiim
P<V
r
?V‘ • *
r"A
.■fiiiiVifi
. ' - ‘
✓ >•
. • r>
•%
eh*
-V
m
f&OF,
•-
e n
&*
W-
.H
?'-t
' If ' ]h
!!lffiMl Iffli .llfSfflffiik; ; •!*':>■ •• -'it: 4
&&sys
wm
:\
wM
MSm
MSI
rnmUi
&&*Wd£
;
%
V
*;V-r jjSJW* ,'W?
v;
WyKsSpl*
fe‘*at-* •••',•■&
:m
P
i
v'ASy ■ 'W^-BKfr .'• 1 *■ :-;.-.r<?<#
11
.¥>■/-■
Si
** ■■<
/>V .”‘V/.;
m*gm
«|
M
§§s
M».f |
-jJGS;
;fe£f
f*SS?3§s
bMW
I:7 r
tikwl
mm< rXM
mt
m
m
Mi .!\S; yOl -Afl Ifeflii i utMMMii4M^H^
*£*-iSp&ii
S 3
V
r xm
m
>.<■*’..y
%; i&m
4>\rJ
rM
fl« j f
m
»
s&l
m
■y?
k\
' sm •
' *.-,»■ -£-
M
w
It
’■ ps
a-
r£Sgl
m
m
m
mm
•**
•*. ,y ‘
Me©
ViSf
4;; - ;
“THE AUSTRAL,**
OOin. x 84in-» 50/-
“THE MARRICHVILLE,”
OOin. x 84 n., 35/-
“THE BOSKER ” —A. 11 Wool and Pure Wool—
lOOin. x 80in„ 21/-
Rugtime is round again, and there is nothing better than the rugs of your old friends, J. Vicars & Co., of Marrickville.
They are pure wool —all wool and nothing but wool —made by Australians for Australians.
THE BOSKER RUG is an extra large size—Bft. 4in. x 6ft. Bin. It will cover a double bed and hang over
the sides. It will wrap around your legs and keep you warm, riding, motoring or travelling by land or
sea. For an all-round knock-about rug there is nothing better. Price ‘only One Guinea.
THE MARRICKVILLE RUG, 7ft. x sft., is made of all pure merino wool, showing a fancy pattern on one
side and plain color on the other. It is the best value in the market for 355.
THE AUSTRAL, 7ft. x sft.—our special high-grade line—is a very heavy rug suitable for high climes and
nippy times. Is made of the very "best quality merino wool—plain on one side and fancy pattern
on the other. Price 50s.
CARRIAGE PAID THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
GOWING BROS.,
484, 486, 488 & 490 George Street ; and 3,5, 7,9, 11, 13, 15 & 17 Royal Arcade, Sydney
Pioneer Distributors of Australian-made Goods. Send for General Catalogue of 120 Pages of Everything for Men’s and Boys’ Wear.


WORTHINGTON PUMP COMPANY LTD.
PUMPS-STEAM, AIR or MOTOR DRIVEN, CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS.
CONDENSERS and COOLING TOWERS. GAS and OIL ENGINES and
GAS PLANTS. MINE VENTILATING FANS, AIR COMPRESSORS.
FEED WATER HEATERS & PURIFIERS. OIL & STEAM SEPARATORS.
For Catalogues and
Information apply—
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY
"SISKOL” ROCKDRILLS.
"SISKOL” HAMM ERDBILLS.
“SISROL” COALCUTTERS.
International Channelling Machines Ltd.
DIERCKS & CO. PROP. LTD.,
465 Collins St., Melbourne.
55 York St., Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Bank of New South Wales; —
To Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
Mar., ’06.. £129,385 10 p.c. =£100,000£29,385 £1,472,618
Sept.,’o6.. 130,115 10 ~ ~ 100,000 30,115 1,502,733
(141,581 10 ~ ~ 100,000 26,5811.-90 0,.
Mar., 07.. 4g,x5,000 voted to P ro vid e nt Fund / 1 > “ ’
Sept.,’o7.. 142,966 10 p.c. = 110,635 32,331 1,561,645
Mar., ’OB.. 156,742 10 ~ ~ 124,399 32,343 1,593,988
Sept.,'oB.. 167,928 10 „ ~ 125,000 42,928 1,636,916
Mar., ’09.. 176,426 10 ~ ~ 125,000 51,426 1,688,342
Sept.,’o9.. 182,362 10 ~ ~ 125,000 57,362 1,745,704
Mar.,’lo.. 178,939 10 ~ ~ 125,000 53,939 1,799,643
Premiums on new shares .. 56,720 1,856,363
Sept.,’lo.. 184,689 10 p.c. = 133,709 50,980 1,907,343
Premiums on new shares 46,735 1,954,078
Mar.,’ll.. 201,492 10 p.c. = 143,457 58,035 2,012,113
Premiums on new shares .. 21,545 2,033,658
Sept.,’ll.. 222,043 10 p.c. = 150,000 72,043 2,105,701
Mar.,’l2.. 215,115 10 „ „ 150,000 65,115 2,170,816
Sept., T 2.. 214,023 10 „,, 150,000 64,023 2,234,839
Mar.,’lB . 259,004 10 ~ ~ 156,339 102,661 2,337,504
That’s a thumping profit for the half-year, and it
might have been made to look bigger still. Three
cuts have been made at the gross figures: (1) £lO,OOO
has been transferred to the Officers’ Provident
Fund, £15,000 to the Buckland Fund (another stand-
by for invalid officers), and £1742 was interest at 5
p.c. on the new capital paid in advance of the due
dates. (There was an issue of £500,000 at par
during the half-year, making the total £3,500,000,
of which £3,253,540 was paid on March 31.) But
even after making the deductions mentioned above,
the £259,004 of profit is abnormal. When money
hardened, rates for deposits and overdrafts were put
up. The rise in the overdraft rate started at once,
of course; the rise in the other only happens along
gradually, as old fixed deposits run out. Still, this
bank would have made a very fine profit apart from
that; and it would deserve to. It knew that the tide
would turn, and, instead of letting out every avail-
able copper, it kept itself in a strong position to
take the very remunerative business that was bound to
drop in presently when money became scarce, and
some other concerns had to say no to it. No doubt,
with apparently good securities on offer, it looks
a dreadful waste to keep 50 p.c. of your public
money in liquid shapes when 25 p.c. might do at the
moment; but the bank that can resist the tempta-
tion is pretty sure to score in the long run. It isn’t
the bank that lends when anyone will lend that
makes the friends that count; it is the bank that
can say “Yes” when others are saying “No.”
Certainly the Wales hasn’t increased the net total
of its advances during the year. But it is in a
position to do it in the next few years; and the
next few years are pretty certain to see men in more
desperate need of accommodation than they have been
during the last few months. As at March 31 the
bank held no less than 51 p.c. of its deposits, etc.,
liquid—figures 'which ought to inspire confidence all
round. The next table shows the movements during
the year:—
Mar., 1912. Mar., 1913.
Notes .. £344,203 £300,129 Dec. £44,074
Bills, etc. . . 4,828,514 6,896,696 Inc. 2,068,182
Deposits .. 35,158,354 34,514,842 Dec. 643,612
Liquid assets 18,709,033 21,312,576 Inc. 2,603,543
Advances .. 26,147,354 25,383,215 Dec. 764,639
Premises . . 795,000 790,000 Dec. 5,000
That shrinkage in the deposits, the result no doubt
of Government withdrawals and calls in other direc-
tions, is the first for many years. Here is the record
for the last five years—a very significant compari-
son :
Increase of Increase of
Mar., Deposits. Advances.
1909 .. £360,642 .. £180,997
1910 . . 3,051,276 . . 356,706
1911 . . 2,916,917 . . 2,370,848
1912 . . 1,892,857 . . 3,215,562
Decrease. Decrease.
1913 . . 643,612 . . 764,639
The way the deposits have tailed off gives one a sick
feeling. The harvests have been good; prices have
been good—for some products phenomenally good.
Splendid money has been earned. But obviously it
hasn’t been merely transferred from Jones of Pitt-
street to Smith of George-street; if that was all that
had happened, the bank figures wouldn’t look so sad.
) The trouble has been the ghastly outbreak of borrowing
fever, with its usual symptoms of wild extravagance,
leading up to huge imports in excess of exports. And
the balance has either had to come out of the banks
or we have had to give our lOU for it. The banks
have had bricks thrown at them for at last buttoning
up tight; but if they hadn’t done it they would have
been obliged to button up a lot tighter presently.
Some of them might even have had to button up so
tight that the depositors wouldn’t have been able to
get at their little bit of cash when they called for it.
The Maoriland Government Accident
Insurance Department :
Carried to To
Reserve General Total
Gross Gross for Unex- Re- Re-
Income. Profit, pired Risks, serves, serves.
1901 .. £11,897 £4096 £3780 £316 £4,096
1902 . . 14,171 931 240 691 5,027
1903 .. 24,449 4758 4510 248 9,785
1904 .. 24,188 5418 978 4440 15,203
1905 .. 24,876 6572 80 6492 21,775
1906 .. 21,929 1604 1604 23,379
1907 . . 22,835 4901 4901 28,280
1908 .. 22,688 4094 4094 32,374
1909 .. 28,515 8528 2264 6264 40,902
1910 . . 23,907 4764 4764 45,666
1911 . . 23,612 6222 6222 51,888
1912 . . 26,733 7448 7448 59,336
That covers the whole history of the Accident branch
of the M.L. Government Insurance Department. Busi-
ness was started in consequence of the passing of the
Workers’ Compensation for Accidents Act of 1900 —
a measure which provides for compensation wherever
the injury isn’t due to the workmkn’s own serious and
wilful misconduct. Compensation for death runs
from £2OO to £5OO if the corpse had people wholly
dependent on him ; where injury only is caused the
workman gets half wages, generally speaking, plus
anything up to £1 per week for medical or surgical
exes. ; but the total can’t be more than £5OO. Such
diseases as lead-poisoning, due to the nature of the
man’s work, are “accidents.” The premiums paid by
the employers, on whose property these compensation
charges amount to a first mortgage, run from 4s. to
105 s. 6d. p.c. of the wages paid. The top charge is
made in connection with bush-felling, which is reck-
oned just upon twice as dangerous as coal-mining
(565. p.c.). There is, besides, a valuable little insur-
ance available to the mortgagee. As indicated iust
now, a mortgage that looks like a first mortgage may
be really a second mortgage, because the compensa-
tion claim comes in first; and a mortgagee can get
protection against loss on that account. The premium
for this is small —as little as 6d. p.c. of the money
lent.
As the table shows, the growth of reserves has been
very satisfactory. In fact, it is probable that the
office could now afford to take some of the business
for a trifle less money. This shows how the revenue
has been cut up:—
Claims. Reserves. Expenses.
1902 ..£5119 3 p.c. £4l 9 4 p.c. £6 11 sp.c.
1903 . . 54 2 3 „ 26 8 6 „ 19 9 3 „
1904 .. 50 1 3 „ 27 11 3 „ 22 7 6 „
1905 .. 45 3 10 „ 28 7 9 „ 26 8 5 „
1906 . . 62 11 4 „ 30 2 3 „ 7 6 5 „
1907 . . 49 8 8 „ 29 2 1 „ 21 9 3 „
1908 . . 52 11 4 „ 29 7 10 „ 18 0 10 „
1909 . . 44 18 0 „ 25 3 7 „ 29 18 5 „
1910 .. 52 7 7 „ 27 14 0 „ 19 18 5 „
1911 . . 44 9 1 „ 29 3 11 „ 26 7 0 „
1912 .. 44 19 2 „ 27 3 10 „ 27 17 0 „
There are, no doubt, certain accumulating liabilities
in accident and compensation business; still the risk
isn’t what it is in a fire office, with the conflagration
hazard always gibbering like a skeleton in the cup-
board. However, The Bulletin isn’t keen on this
subject of cutting down premiums and thus putting
a check on the accumulation of reserves, more par-
ticularly as the branch has no capital in the ordinary
sense, though actually, being a State institution, its
uncalled capital is the whole taxable wealth of the
Dominion. Its own funds are out on mortgage: no
other investments are looked at. It is seriously open
to question whether it is a wise or even proper thing
to lump unearned premiums into a fixed investment
of this kind, whatever may be done with the rest
of the funds.
* * * *
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson and
Co., druggists, etc. (Sydney) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Aug., 1905.. £5,959 10 p.c. = £6,000 £2,014
Feb., 1906.. 7,124 10 „„ 6,000 £1124 3,138
Aug., 1906.. 6,338 10 „ „ 6,000 338 3,476
Feb., 1907 . . 6,390 10 ~ „ 6,000 390 3,866
Aug., 1907 . . 6,730 10 „ „ 6,000 730 4,596
Feb., 1908 . . 6,198 10 „ „ 6,000 198 4,794
Aug., 1908 . . 8,232 10 ~ „ 6,000 2232 7,026
Feb., 1909 . . 10,780 15 „ „ 9,000 1780 8,806
Aug., 1909.. 11,214 15 „ „ 9,000 2214 11,020
Feb., 1910 . . 11,020 15 „ „ 9,000 2020 13,040
Aug., 1910.. 11,016 15 „ „ 9,000 2016 15,056
Feb., 1911.. 11,085 15 „ „ 9,000 2085 17,141
Aug., 1911 . . 11,988 15 „ „ 9,000 2988 20,129
Feb., 1912 .. 16,033 25 „ „ 15,000 1033 21,162
Aug., 1912 . . 14,634 20 „ „ 12,000 2634 23,796
Feb., 1913 .. 16,340 20 „ „ 12,000 4340 28,136
That gives a pretty good idea of the remarkable pros-
perity of this co.; but perhaps the following compari-
son makes it look even more heavily gilt-edged;—
Feb., 1908. Feb., 1913.
Liabilities .. .. .. £4,223 £27,364
Assets, other than stock, plant,
etc 57,301 127,416
Surplus £53,078 £100,052
There you have in five years a growth of £46,974 in
the net assets, exclusive of stock and plant; and it
seems a fair thing to assume, in view of the profit
figures, that the co. doesn’t carry a poorer stock now
than it did in 1908. Meantime the dividend has
averaged 17£ p.c. And the accounts look absolutely
clean. There used to be a goodwill item, but that
disappeared long since; also “patent rights, etc.,”
used to be included with stocks, but “patent rights”
have now gone, too, and from the look of the item they
have been written right off. For a good many years
the freeholds stood at £42,500. Then a George-street
property near the Post Office was bought, and the
item moved up to £94,400. A mortgage of £17,000
was taken on the new purchase, which accounts for
the jump in the liabilities shown in the last little
table. Before paying the dividend for the half-year
the liquid assets were £29,420. That isn’t enough
to pay for such a building on the new George-street
block as this co. intends to have, wherefore, instead
of borrowing, the co. issues 30,000 new shares at
par (one in four), and the div. on this
new lot will provide a get-away for some
of the co.’s surplus profits. The present
20 p.c. would call for £6OOO a year extra,
and as the new building will earn something (part of
it is to be let), it doesn’t look as though it would be
at all impossible to keep the 20 p.c. going, given the
present conditions of trade. Still there are large
doubts whether either the turnover or the prices
of the past few years have been normal. In these
days the popular chemist’s shop is about 30 p.c.
medicinal drugs and 70 p.c. extras, and the extras
are mostly those things that the congregation only
buys when it feels extra-good and flush. It is cheer-
ful, no doubt, for the shareholder to reflect that
profits have grown from £12,102 in 1904-5 to
£30,974 in 1912-13; but it is also worth reflecting
whether a return to the 1904-5 conditions wouldn’t
bring a return to profits more like £12,102 than
£30,974.
The Re-Insurance Co. (Sydney) :
Deficit
(Preliminary
Expenses).
Available £BO3
for
Feb., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1912 .. £1605 Nil £1605 £BO2
1913 . . 593 Nil 593 1395
This co. works in with the 1.0. A. and takes some of
that infant concern’s excess lines. Every sane in-
surance office limits its risks not only on individual
properties, but within city blocks as well. The sum
which it isn’t prepared to carry itself it passes
on to other offices. Sometimes the local managers
of these other offices consider the offers of re-insur-
ance as an ordinary matter of business; sometimes
the office which wants to re-insure has “treaty offices,”
foreign mostly, to which it allots re-insurance more
or less automatically. If you are dead-sure of the
management of the office that takes the original insur-
ance, this treaty business is, as a rule, very profitable,
because the cost of getting the re-insurance policy
is comparatively small. The 1.0. A. people, having a
very good opinion of their own experience and judg-
ment, and being certain also that they were going
to take all sorts of care, thought they might just as
well make money for themselves and their friends as
for anybody else; hence this Re-Insurance Co. The
figures so far don’t prove anything decisively. The
first year’s profits weren’t true profits, because prac-
tically none of the risks had run the full 12 months,
though 12 months’ premiums had been collected. In
the second year, that condition didn’t apply to the
same extent; but organisation exes, were still ab-
normally heavy. Premium income was £8558;
losses absorbed 56.7 p.c. and exes. 42.3 p.c. Thus
the underwriting profit was only 1 p.c. That ex-
pense rate must be cut down. If it can’t be cut
down any other way it ought to be done by amal-
gamation with the 1.0. A. The two now are practi-
cally one—they have the same management right
through, and there are few people on the share
register of one who are not on the list of the other.
In the circumstances a duplication of brass-plates,
etc., seems mere waste.
National Mortgage and Agency Co.
of Maoriland : :
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1904 .. £32,610 8| p.c. = £16,999 £15,611 £77,400
1905 . . 40,240 10 „ „ 20,000 20,240 97,640
1906 . . 34,880 10 „ „ 20,000 14,880 112,520
1907 .. 35,226 10 „ „ 20,000 15,226 127,746
1908 . . 35,456 10 „ „ 20,000 15,456 143,202
1909 . . 38,141 111 „ „ 22,500 15,641 158,843
1910 . . 38,505 ll| „ „ 22,500 16,005 174,848
1911 . . 41,149 124 „ „ 25,000 16,149 190,997
1912 .. 41,669 12J „ „ 25,000 16,669 207,666
This is a mostly-English concern with heaps of
money behind it. Its own paid capital is £200,000;
and the fact that such shareholders are liable for
another £BOO,OOO gives creditors an easy feeling.
So far as this paper knows, the co. has never had to
send sandwich-men round London imploring the
populace to drop in with deposits. What money it
needs except for casual business it is in the habit of
raising on debentures with a 5-year currency. That
scheme has a lot to recommend it. Australia (which
is to be taken to include Maoriland) is liable to be
hit hard, and, as it lies on the floor taking its nine
seconds, it is apt to look very like a corpse. But
it never has taken the whole 10 seconds yet; and
mostly it has made an amazing recovery in the next
round. If a depositor could get his money back
while Australia was on the floor he would do it for
certain unless he knew Australia’s habits exceed-
ingly well. And that’s where the advantages of five-
year deposits come in; they may fall due just at the
moment Australia is on the floor, but the chances
are they won’t; and, anyway, after a five years’ (or
perhaps a 10 or 15 years’) experience the creditor
will take no serious notice when Australia goes down
for a nine-seconds’ rest. The co.’s own funds (capital
and reserves) amounted to £425,166 prior to the
payment of the half-year’s dividend ( £17,500) ;
its liabilities (including £541,807 on 4 and 4i p.c.
debentures) were £861,644. Of this money £253,298
is in cash and liquid assets, £133,182 in premises,
plant and merchandise stock, and £900,331 is in
advances and property held. How much “property
held” accounts for isn’t disclosed, but it is appar-
ently under one-third of the total, and probably
much less than that. The business is old-established;
and, though the risks in a pastoral-finance concern
are very considerable, the profits are juicy and the
recoveries so rapid that, given reasonable manage-
ment, even a bad knock isn’t followed by any long
run of poor dividends. For instance, only 10 min-
utes ago The Bulletin heard, on unimpeachable
authority, of a man now worth a solid £250,000, who
less than 10 years ago went to just such another
pastoral-finance co. as this, and asked to be re-
lieved of his mortgaged property. That particular
pastoral-finance co. wasn’t eager to take over another
lame duck, and though it couldn’t back him up any
further itself, it got other help for him —and to-day,
as mentioned just now, he is an easy £250,000 to
the good. Fixed pessimism comes difficult in relation
to a country and an industry that can do things like
that.
* * * *
The Volum Brewing Co. (Geelong,
Vic.): —
Writ- To
ten Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Feb., 1905 £1373 10 p.c. = £5OO £256 £617 £9,515
Aug., 1905 731 10 „ „ 500 640 9,106
Feb., 1906 1317 10 „ „ 500 750 67 9,173
Aug., 1906 1010 10 „ „ 500 134 376 9,549
Feb., 1907 1353 10 „ „ 500 136 717 10,266
Aug., 1907 868 10 „ „ 500 127 241 10,507
Feb., 1908 1577 10 „ „ 500 523 554 11,061
Aug., 1908 959 10 „ „ 500 618 10,902
Feb., 1909 841 10 „ „ 500 140 201 11,103
Aug., 1909 833 10 „ „ 500 137 196 11,299
Feb., 1910 1663 10 „ „ 500 632 531 11,830
Aug., 1910 885 10 „ „ 501 125 259 12,089
Feb., 1911 1894 10 ~ „ 503 1372 19 12,108
Aug., 1911 1108 10 „ „ 503 750 11,963
Feb., 1912 2347 10 „ „ 503 1800 44 12,007
Aug., 1912 1275 10 „ „ 513 1000 11,769
Feb., 1913 2541 10 „ „ 574 1800 167 11,936
Capital is only £11,488, so the reserves now exceed
the money put into the business by the shareholders.
And they look very real reserves, too; such large
amounts have indeed been written off that the assets
probably exceed their book value, in which case there
is a hidden reserve as well as the visible one. The
single doubtful spot in the accounts is: “Licensed
hotel premises, £19,782,” practically half the total
assets. The Wowser is alive in the land, moving up
and down seeking what pubs he may next devour. In
Victoria he operates through the Licenses Reduction
Board. On every £lOO of purchases of liquor the
owner of the premises has to pay £2 into a fund and
the licensee £l. The Reduction Board’s job is to
close sufficient pubs to absorb this fund, the money,
of course, going in compensation, the latter being
based on the trade done in 1904-6 in the case of
owners and 1903-5 in the case of licensees. This
allows the fund to escape payment for increment in
value caused by the closure of other pubs, and that
means, again, that the fund can buy out more pubs
than it could if it had to pay current value. To the
end of June, 1912, no less than 606 pubs had been
closed in Victoria since 1907 ; the compensation paid
had amounted to £247,465, and, as they didn’t all
get compensation, the average amount paid was £470.
The Geelong victims have, however, been comforted
with more than the average. On December 31, 1906,
in the two divisions (East and West) 57 pubs had
their signs out, or 14 more than the statutory maxi-
mum. So far, six of the 14 have gone, at a total
cost of £3792 paid to the owners and £520 to the
licensees. Eight more are to go as the funds are
available —and then? Will the reduction stop there?
It hasn’t stopped anywhere yet. In 1885, in Victoria
there were 4265 pubs. In 1912, with 383,000 more
throats to oil, there were only 2821; so 838 pubs
disappeared without being pushed by the Reduction
Board. Of these 838 the old local option polls were
responsible for spiking the beer guns in 217; the
other 621 just died. Some of them did it because
they couldn’t help it; others because they were paid
to do it. This looks like a long wander from the
Volum; but that co. is particularly interested in the
matter in its small way, because it has so large a
proportion of its funds in the threatened property.
Still, the Victorian pub-owner has this advantage:
he has a pretty fair idea of what he will get, sup-
posing his license goes. Hence it is possible to
keep the valuation of pubs somewhere near the mark.
Finally, the Volum isn’t all pub. Revenue from
brewing is well maintained; if there had been no
pub-rents coming in last half-year, the net revenue
from the other source would have given £1685.
Still, that was the dry half of the year, which is the
juicy end from a brewery co.’s point of view.
* * * *
The City and Suburban Building Soci-
ety (Brisbane) :
Writ- Added
Dividends and ten to Re- Re-
Feb., Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
1900.. £5914 4 p.c. = £4007 £2ll £1696 £12,025
1901 . . 4937 4 „ „ 3221 556 1160 13,185
1902 .. 4778 4 „ „ 3221 1,417 140 13,325
1903 .. 4502 4 „ „ 3219 1,192 91 13,416
1904 .. 4547 4 „ „ 3159 1,353 35 13,451
1905 .. 4381 4 „ „ 3185 10,380 4,267
1906 . . 4142 4 „ „ 3190 463 489 4,756
1907 .. 4201 4 ~ „ 3196 594 411 5,167
1908 . . 4388 4 „ „ 3184 718 486 5,653
1909 .. 4552 4 „ „ 3173 421 958 6,611
1910 . . 5068 44 ~ „ 3376 1,280 412 7,023
1911 .. 5329 4j „ „ 3801 347 1181 8,204
1912 .. 5792 5 „ „ 4023 517 1252 9,456
1913 .. 6362 5 „ „ 4021 1,208 1133 10,589
This society has 2416 Australian Bank of Commerce
shares; and though the A.B.C. may have, and proba-
bly has, 20s. worth of assets to show for every £1
of its capital, it isn’t in a position yet to make the
best use of its funds. Therefore dividends are small
and shares are at a heavy discount; and this society
has done the proper thing in writing its holding down.
That explains the £l2OB written off this year. In
other respects, also, the directors seem to have been
making things shipshape. The new advances had
been climbing up fast; for the year to the end of
February, 1909, they were £30,395 and for the year
to the end of February, 1912, they were no less than
£60,968. At that point the management apparently
reckoned the time was ripe to prepare for the trouble
that every boom wears in its tail; so new advances
were cut down for the past year to £58,064. And
that was a wise thing to do, because when a borrow-
ing boom breaks, and values sag, it is the new ad-
vances that give the trouble to the building society.
The old ones are all right; enough has been paid off
them to protect the mortgagee against any but the
most exceptional slump. That was one reason why
the Melbourne building societies tmt- l*
few years ago; the boom was so fudde , hard »
all the advances were new. Though the nearl >'
ety has been a little less lavish withita SOci '
apparently hasn’t had any trouble in * d ™ nce « it
posits; but it has been prudent enough g ? U ? 8 de-
little more loose cash in the till than ir° ke f P 1
Twelve months ago, when it owed £B3 sfil t t US 1 ed to-
tors and £1639 on sundry accounts i? aeposi-
£l96s on hand, apart from its t^ had onl >’
£5OOO with the Commercial of of
money is £5837, apart from Vgg
looks better, though it still doesn’t lnni? tB ‘ That
much to hold against deposits of £ v°
doubt the deposits are fixed ; but there aretfml v, N °
with" his to money. eVen * SUSpidOUS 11x6(1 de P os «or Tway
(.JeMd,)°4 8I “ SAIT Co-okeativ'e CO.
w m Nominal
May Profits. Dividend s^ 6 '.
1901 ..£5,049 Nil £M42^*Sw
1903 .. 6,665 84p.c.=£5762 im 2607fi 1“t
1904 . . 6,041 n „ „ 4939 750 J!?®
IK:: *SS 3 ;;;; JS {g ~ ffi
1907 •• S? 6i ”” 4116 750 «88
1908 .. 632 Nil __ __
Profit. **2l
1909 .. 6,426 p.c. = 4939 2000 «na
ini? ‘ ‘ !Sm 3 10 ” ” 6585 3000 1278 508fi
1911 . . 10,909 10 „ „ 6585 3000 1324 firm
1912 . . 11,960 10 „ „ 6585 3000 2375 R7s?
1913 •• *0,262 10 ~ ~ 6585 3000 ??7 lill
( Amount of Goodwill’ item being specified.”)
The Australian salt business, though still less than 9n
years old, is worth having these days. How m Uc h
the Commonwealth produces altogether isn’t known
It is not often that the modern statistician has to
leave a gap in h:s tables of production, and exnlain
that he can t find out, but he does in this case P S
Aus. and Vic. are the big producers; but while the
former is rather proud of turning out from 50 non
60,000 tons a year, the latter keeps dumb concern
ing its output. If there isn’t a law to compel it to
speak, it is time there was. The Commonwealth
helps this industry with a duty of 20s. per ton or
15 p.c. in the case of “prepared” salts imported in
jars, and the Commonwealth has, therefore a right
to know whether and to what extent the dutv is
doing its work Apparently it isn’t do'ng all it
should do, because between 24,000 and 25 000 tons
were imported in 1911 ; and that is utterly absurd
considering the quantity of brine there is around
xVustralia. The Victorian supply is understood to be
derived mainly from the evaporation of artificially
impounded ocean. In S. Aus. another method is
adopted. There are great flats near Yorktown which
are covered with water in winter. In summer the
liquid disappears, leaving a crop of salt behind it
This cake is ploughed up and refined; and so the
thing goes on year after year. Some day, Nature
may go on strike, but so far it hasn’t slowed down
or even applied for a wages board. On this freak
this co. is built. Whether and to what extent it is
safe to rely on a freak, this paper passes no
opinion. All it will say is that the shareholders
deserve 10 p.c. for taking this and other risks.
Pretty large amounts, it will be seen, have been
written off in recent years; but the bulk of that
money and the surplus net profits have gone back
into the business. Take a 10 years’ comparison:—
1903. 1913.
Assets other than fixed property
and plant £24,945 £20,884
Liabilities 11,184 11,702
Excess assets £13,761 £17,182
There is nothing gaudy in that, especially as divs.
have only lately been put up to -10 p.c., and have
been as little as nil. Further, the 12 months’ pro-
fits have been the poorest in the past four years,
owing, it is said, to a small increase in inter-State
freights, and it wouldn’t take much more of a cut
at the earnings to make the present 10 p.c. impossi-
ble. Further, it is a question whether, when the
general average of prices falls presently, as the
result of a keener chase after fewer bawbees, this
co. won’t have to take less for its salt. Anyhow,
if it escapes, there are few others that will. On the
whole, therefore, The Bulletin doesn’t feel wildly
enthusiastic about this investment: (1) there is the
risk before-mentioned, with Nature at the bottom
of it; (2) there is the fact that the net assets, apart
from fixed property, are only £17,182, and the
fixed property wouldn’t bring much if the business
wasn’t going; (3) the foreigner’s dumping habits
have to be taken into account; (4) 10 p.c. has been
paid only during a period cl inflated prices all
round, and there have been times when nothing at
all was paid. The moral of all of which is that the
present duty is none too large, and that another ss.
or 10s. per ton would not be amiss. It is heaps
better for Australia to pay £5 a ton for its salt and
keep the £5, than get the stuff for ss. less and send
the £4 15s. to the foreigner.
The Central Railway Palace Buildings,
Ltd. (Sydney), is asking for another £25,000 on
so-called 8 p.c. preference shares. This co. is erect-
ing a large resident'al hotel —as yet unlicensed —
near the Sydney Railway Station. Adjoining land
being now available, it is proposed to add. to the
original plans; hence the extra £25,000. Criticism of
the issue is based mainly on the fact that for all
practical purposes it is not preferential, as alleged.
Not one penny of ordinary capital has been got in;
hence the shareholder is in no better position than if
he had no preference. The only ordinary shares
issued are 5000 free to the vendors —that is, the
people who got the lease from the City Council and
passed it on to this co.; and they also take £2500
cash. The vendors are also entitled to apply for
another 10,000 ordinary shares at par when and how
they like; and these ordinaries may take 10 p.c.,
and until they get “more than 10 p.c.” the prefs.
can’t get more than 8 p.c. The prefs. are, there-
fore, really worse off than if they were not prefs. They
put up all the capital, yet they get only 8 p.c., and
can’t get more than 8 p.c. until somebody who has
put up no cash whatever gets “more than 10 p.c.
Then, should things go well, and the 8 p c. dividend
be earned comfortably, the vendors have the right to
drop in another £lO,OOO, which must also get more
than 10 p.c.” before the prefs., who took all the
risks, get more than 8 p.c. Further, as to the prei-
erence which is no real preference at all, one or t
other things have to be taken into account: (1) tn
premises are leasehold, not freehold (the lease ru
about 48 years), and the ground rent is
year for the original block, and something u
specified for the addition; (2) rates and taxes to
paid in addition, say, £2OOO a year; (3) a m
gage of £29,000 had been arranged when the original
prospectus was issued. These claims are all ] P ,
ential to those of the “preference shareholders.
There probably is room for such a residential
as this in that quarter. The investor can
his own opinion on that point. This papers dy
ended when it sets out as clearly as it
nature of the alleged “preference.”
* * * *
The Australian (Sydney) Gaslight Co-
makes its first new issue under the Gas Act
year. There are to be 42,500 “C shares
each, to be issued at par —one new share to .
five old ones —and “subject to the provision
Gas Act, 1912, to participate in any dividend
dared” after the next half-yearly
The Act limits the dividend on the additi
capital to be raised after the passing of this - ,
7 p.c. on ordinary and 5 p.c. on pret. capdal. thoug
another j p.c. may be paid on ordinary cap ~ g _
every Id. by which the price of gas is redu
low 3s. 6d.


By Appointing the
Perpetual Trustee
Company (Limited)
EXECUTOR and TRUSTEE
Testators are assured that
their Estates will be
economically and efficiently
administered. Accounts
rendered regularly to
Beneficiaries.
WRITE OR CALL FOR BOOKLET.
2, 4 and 6 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
A. J. MACKENZIE Manager.
a
no:
nT^riunnuu
Suction Gas Plants.
Gas, Petrol, Oil Engines.
SIMPLICITY. RELIABILITY.
KYNOCH LTD.,
Melbourne.
Adelaide.
Perth.
Sydney.
Brisbane.
A great mistake, when erecting new works or re-
arranging old ones, is often made in constructing the
building and installing machinery ere looking round
for means of transport of the raw material, half
manufactured and finished goods. Messrs. Adolf
Bleichert and Co., of London, have issued various
catalogues and leaflets, illustrating and describing a
few of the many transport systems and plants which
they have supplied, and which show the solution of
the transport question and the advantages of em-
ploying such appliances. W. and J. Lempriere,
Melbourne and Sydney, are the Australian representa-
tives, and would be pleased to hear from those in-
terested. A specially trained engineer is retained to
consult and advise.*
Mine managers and engineers contemplating Re-
inforced Concrete construction should write for par-
ticulars of the Indented Steel Bar, which gives the
greatest bond, and is the strongest and cheapest re-
inforcement on the market. Used by the N. S.
Wales and Queensland railways for bridges, by the
Sydney Water and Sewerage Board for elevated re-
servoirs, by the N. S. Wales Government Architect,
and by all the leading architects. Should guaranteed
designs be required for concrete structures, our ex-
pert will be pleased to furnish plans and descripr
tions. Apply, Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.*
In all smithing work high-class iron can be more
safely manipulated at varying temperatures than
steel or ordinary iron. It is for this reason that
Best Yorkshire Farnlev Iron is preferred by engi-
neers, where toughness, great strength and close
grain are needed. Whatever the specification, Iron
of the Farnley type does not vary, but is simply the
best that can be produced from what is really
wrought iron. “Farnlev” Bars of all sections sup-
plied from local stock bv Sole Agents of the Farnley
Iron Comp., Ltd. Belt's Asbestos, Ltd 1 ., 315 Kent
Street, Sydney.*
Efficient grinding is one of the many problems
that mine managers have to solve. The Hardinge
Conical Mills have proved to the Calumet and Hecla
Mining Co. that grinding is not such a difficult
problem ; they have installed 64 of them, and say
“the Hardinge Conical Mill is the most efficient
grinding machine we have yet gotten hold of.” If
they say this of the mills, it should be worth the
while of mine managers here to inquire about them.
The Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are
the sole representatives for them in the Common-
wealth, and will be glad to forward particulars.* [1
Extract from The Insurance Record, London, Sep-
tember 22, 1911: “To have written insurances for
£5,550,000 (Ordinary, Industrial and Accident) in
a year which was marked by the keenest competition
from beginning to end, is an achievement which
proves that the Colonial Mutual is a force to be
reckoned with in every sphere to which its influence
extends.”*
PIONEER WOOD PIPE is the most economical
pressure pipe on the market, as it is the most dur-
able. It saves money in first cost, freight and labor.
If kept wet it has a life of unlimited length. The
Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., 57 York Street,
Sydney (Head Office).*
The American Ring Pulverizer is designed for
crushing and pulverizing limestone, lime, coke, ore,
terra-cotta, glass, quartz, phosphate rock, sandstone,
gravel, tile crockery, flint, manganese ore, shale,
and all other refractory materials. See page 3.
Australian representatives: Haes and Eggers, Ltd.,
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* * » »
Ninety-six years is a long time to be working. At
no stage of that period have Hornsby & Sons relaxed
their efforts towards making their engines more and
more reliable. Material and workmanship are of the
highest possible grade, and because of their longer,
larger and more varied experience in Engines of all
types, they are enabled to produce a Petrol Engine
which has no rival in the world. R. Hornsby &
Sons, Limited, Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane.* [2
Harringtons Ltd. are now in a position to quote
the lowest fees for all kinds of assay, analytical and
metallurgical work. Expert advice on ore treatment,
smelting, bullion, refining, etc. This firm have now
a most up-to-date and completely fitted laboratory,
directed by a first-class analyst from Johnson and
Sons, London, assayers to the Bank of England,
H.M. Mint, The Council of India, etc. Any work of
the above nature entrusted to this reliable firm of
photographic manufacturers will receive immediate
and prompt attention. For full particulars and
prices apply to Harringtons, Ltd., 380 George Street,
Sydney.*
Patents.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
If so, write to Griffith and Ilassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 163 King Street,
Sydney.* [1
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modem scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
* * * *
Messrs. Babcock & Wilcox, Ltd., have received
the order for the supply of all the steam generating
plant and accessories for the electrification of the
Victorian Government Railways. The acceptance of
this firm’s tender was strongly recommended by Mr.
Merz, the English expert. The contract amounts to
£258,000.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co.. 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
Assayers, Mine Managers and Prospectors write
to H. B. Silberberg and Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, and at Melbourne, for particulars concerning
mining requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun's
disc pulverisers to 200 mesh ; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospector’s balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces ; Morgan's crucibles : chemicals ; etc.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout tho Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Australian agent for the bailiff who
is sitting in the Commonwealth Oil Corporation’s
parlor (N.S.W.) appeared before the Warden at Lith-
gow last week, and asked for more suspension of
labor covenants. Of course, he got what he asked,
and might have got more. At Newnes and there-
abouts, it seems, £1,432,147 has been spent, of
which revenue from products has supplied a whole
£67,140. For actual mining, £300,586 has been
paid out—mostly wasted. In fact, most .of the
£1,432,147 has been wasted. Close upon quarter of
a million went into a railway line and its equip-
ment, and the whole lot is little better than scrap-
iron and useless burrowing. This line, which con-
nects with the N.S.W. Government railways at
Newnes Junction, leads to the works, built at enor-
mous expense on the side of a crumbling hill. Mil-
lions of bricks had to be put into retaining walls.
That was bad enough, but, worse still, the shale
supply is on the other side of a precipitous range
which divides this Wolgan Valley from Capertee
Valley. The co.’s mad plans provided for a tunnel
about five miles long through the hill alongside the
works. About half of it was done when the cash
petered out. A scheme to provide more capital is
incubating in London ; whether the eggs will hatch
out the required £350,000 remains to be
seen. David Fell, who is the agent for
the bailiff before-mentioned, told the Court
that he “had been connected with several
reconstructions, but had never seen more evidence of
a desire to put the thing through than in this case.”
It is to be sincerely hoped that it does go through,
because there are undoubtedly the makings of a very
big industry here. Of the shale deposits themselves,
there is no doubt whatever; they are among the
largest and richest in the world, if not actually the
largest and richest. The most conspicuous fly in the
ointment or lion in the path, or whatever it may be,
is the fact that shareholders and debenture-holders
don’t even yet realise what money has been wasted.
But perhaps it is just as well.
Apropos the appalling waste at Wolgan, it is of
special interest just at present to recall that the
fool company in the days when it was flush paid its
chief officer, not on the basis of what he saved, but
in proportion to wha, he spent. That lunacy is re-
called now in consequence of a report that the
N.S.W. Government has in mind a somewhat similar
plan for constructing large public works.
The other N. S. Wales- oil concern, the one into
which J. Bull put his money with the object of
working deposits near Murrurundi, is also in diffi-
culties, and it is announced that it wants another
£loo,boo. Meantime, the retorts are closed down, and
the debenture-holders have taken charge. The
depos-ts here are much less important, but there
hasn’t >een anything like the same dreadful waste.
What was most wrong in this case was the shocking
miscalculation of costs and probable profits.
The same old loose reports r jntinue to be
issued about Ardlethan. One co., the Kia Ora, re-
ported the other day that it had got down lift, on
its main lode. “Three average samples of stone
were taken at this depth for assay purposes, and the
results were: 16.6 p.c., 20.4 p.c., and 23.6 p.c.
tin.” No width of lode mentioned; and from the
fact that three separate apd widely-different “aver-
age” assay results were got, it is plain that the
body wasn’t sampled at all. The unprofessional
practice everywhere is to take specimens and have
them assayed; and that isn’t sampling, no matter
how honest the man who takes the specimens may
be. Again, from the same report: “Expert opinion
has conclusively proved that this lode is a continua-
tion of one of the Commonwealth lodes.” “L-:pert
opinion” wouldn’t “conclusively prove” anything of
the sort, any more than the “expert opinion” of a
doctor that a man has appendicitis “conclusively
proves” that he has appendicitis. Until the people
who are running Ardlethan properties get out of this
bad habit of making loose, not to say wild, reports,
there will be very little confidence in the field, and
the money that is very badly needed to develop some
of the shows will not be forthcoming.
* * * *
There were sad people in the Sydney
share market last week. During the mad boom of
April 25 and 26 and thereabouts, thousands of
Ardlethan shares were bought at six weeks; and
these deluded people are being called up to the
scratch now. In scores of cases it is utterly impossi-
ble for them to take up the scrip, and they have to
sell what of course they have never paid for in order
to raise some of the purchase money. What they
can’t raise in that way many of them will have to
go in debt for. This little list shows what was
paid during the boom and what some of the pur-
chasers had to sell for last week; —
Six weeks
ago. Last week.
Carpathia .. .. 30/- 18/1
White Crystal .. .. 30/6 6/-
Wild Cherry . . . . 18/3 6/1
Southern Cross .. .. 7/4 1/11
Ardlethan Options . . £25 £lO/5/-
Homeward Bound . . £l9 £4
And there was the even worse experience of the
people who bought things that to-day are quite un-
saleable.
The Ardlethan district itself is now almost wholly
sane. For a while, of course, like every
new field in a fever, it thought it was
a beautiful thing to have a boom. Now
it begins to see that it will want a good deal of
’money for its development, and it also sees that, in-
stead of Ardlethan getting that money, the Ardle-
than boomsters have got it. Many a field with fair
prospects has been handicapped in that way ; some
thave been handicapped right out of the race. For-
tunately, Ardlethan has two or three mines that are
producing something for which they can get a
•prompt market; so it will be kept alive. Fen the
man with a legitimate prospect but no marketable
■ore there is, however, a hard struggle ahead. And
-when he has to roll up his bluey and move on he
will have to thank, as usual, the old enemies of the
•mining industry who bring it into disfavor by using
•a promising field merely as a counter in a gamble.
* * * *
Great Britain, Emmaville (N.S.W.), has
■done well for its mostly-Sydney shareholders. The
first plant started in Nov., 1907, and the first div.
arrived in 1909. Since then, on a paid capital of
£5OOO, shareholders have had £20,184. There are
10,000 shares, and for some time past £3OOO per
half-year has been divided. The outlook, however,
isn’t what it was. Mostly the co. didn t have much
to complain of in the way of deficient water last six
months ; nevertheless the profit was down to £3385
as against £4262 in the corresponding part of the
previous year; and for a while prior to that, the
figure was up to £5OOO. Moore’s ground is ]ust
about finished; what is left of the old, original
ground is poor and hard; and a start is to be made
soon on the newest block acquired, on the Y Creek.
Profits, of course, are expected; but they will be
more of the bread-and-butter kind. Fortunately,
besides two excellent plants, the co. has a decent
£3625 of liquid assets in hand after prov.ding for
liabilities.
Mountain Queen (W.A.) reports for 1912
that 43,393 tons of ore and 3149 tons of accumu-
lated slimes were treated for £40,684. The accounts
show a net profit of £9324, which has been mopped
up in working the co.’s other Yilgarn show—the
Transvaal—-and in writing off depreciation, prelim-
inary exes., underwriting commission, and odds and
ends.
Golden Ridge’s days are numbered.
Chairman Crocker said at the half-yearly meeting
in Kalgoorlie, on May 28, that the mine “had been
well prospected, and the large amount of unsuc-
cessful work done left little hope of anything further
of value being found. Profits in sight were
limited, and it was necessary, unless the co. wanted
to wind up shortly, in preference to acquiring an-
other property, to conserve the funds and accumulate
a larger cash reserve. That was the reason why
the Board had suggested the suspension of divi-
dends. Shareholders would not suffer in any
way by this policy, as, if a new show was secured,
the outlook would be improved, and if one was not
purchased, the hoarded-up profits could be distributed
later on.” The meeting agreed with the Board and
adopted the report.
Sand Queen (W.A.) is netting on. Its
gold receipts for 1912 amounted to £37,549, and,
after deducting all expenditure (including capital
and development), and paying out £9450 in six 6d.
divs., it wound up with a cash balance of £3136.
The value of the ore opened up was higher than the
average for the previous year, consequently the grade
of the 30,000 tons of reserves has been increased to
80s. per ton, or £1 more than the previous estimate.
Working costs showed a reduction of 4s. Id. per ton.
At the meeting chairman Frank Moss informed
shareholders that, in addition to the declared output
for the first quarter of the current year, £2523 had
been added to the bullion reserve. Additions had
been made to the plant, and the co. hoped to crush
more ore and earn bigger profits for the remainder
of the year.
* * * *
About a year ago the Augusta Co.
(W.A.) announced that it had bought a plant for its
Laverton show, and towards the end of the year it
was stated that the machinery had been erected, and
that crushing would be commenced as soon as belts
came to hand. Since then all has been silence.
What has gone wrong ? Incidentally, it may be
recalled that a poor opinion of this property was
offered in back numbers of this paper.
Better luck has attended Great Boulder’s
efforts to find new makes of ore west than east of
the main south workings. Eastward nothing but a
couple of thin veins of schist were met, but out west,
480 ft. south of Edwards shaft, and 50ft. from the
Golden Horseshoe boundary, an lift, lode was
pierced, which drill cores say is worth 3oz. per ton.
The spot where the bore was put in is about half-
way b'-.weeo Edwards and Lane shafts, and in a sec-
tion which has been little explored in the deep levels.
A crosscut will shortly be driven to prove the value
of the development. Meantime, the market is hazard-
ing as much as it dare on the worth of the find.
Influenza kept F. A. Govett away from
the Ivanhoe meeting in London, and G. A. Touche,
M.P., presided in his stead. Touche said that the actual
position was better than appeared, and he urged
shareholders to buck up. They knew what the
reserves were, and at the worst the property had
several years of profits ahead of it. In an address
sent to be read at the meeting, Govett declared that
the outlook was not nearly so bad as had been repre-
sented in some quarters. With the geological in-
vestigations of Dr. MacLaren, and the experience
of the Great Boulder to guide him, he felt justified
in telling shareholders that below the slate and
graphite bar in which the management was now
working, good, payable ore would be found. Mean-
time there were some million-odd tons of ore
blocked out, worth 40s. 7d. per ton, representing five
years’ work at the present rate. Then there were
considerable quantities of ore that were left behind
in the upper levels when costs were high and ex-
tractions low; and the early stope-fillings, he reck-
oned, would pay to take out. The retreatment of the
co.’s immense dumps was also mentioned as likely
to prove a big source of revenue. And over and
above these there were cash reserves worth about
13s. per share. By the time the address was read,
nearly everyone present had come to the conclusion
that the position did not warrant the recent slump
in shares, and the meeting ended in that frame of
mind.
» * * *
From Meekatharra (W.A.) :■ Ingliston
Consols is furnishing good values at 750 ft., which is
the deepest point yet reached on the field. An addi-
tional five head of stamps has been installed.... A
new reef 2ft. wide, and assaying 80s., is being opened
up in the Marmont, and the mill is again at work
after some months of idleness... .Fenian Syndicate
reports good values-in No. 7 north level, where assays
are said to average from 3oz. to 4oz. over a width of
7ft. to 10ft. Value of last month’s return from this
show approximated £11,000.... Ingliston Extended
has struck it rich in a winze below 300 ft., where
ore worth up to £4O per ton has been sunk on for
some distance. Of late values haven’t been too
good, and this find has helped to cheer the co. up a
bit.... In a west crosscut off the south drive Queen
of the Hills has just struck a make of ore, which
averages 40s. for 10ft.
Bullfinch Prop. (W.A.) has secured the
forfeiture of the notorious “Enough ! Enough ! We’ve
seen enough!” Chaffinch lease. The co.’s object is
to get possession of the property, in case the main
northern-series lode, which now forms the backbone
of the Bullfinch, extends into it.
“The directors anticipate that shortly the
mine will be self-supporting; and as a large amount
of development work has been carried out ahead, a
discontinuance of calls is expected in the near
future.” This about the Al, Gaffney’s (Vic.), was
written three months since; but the co. hasn’t struck
the bright future that most managers see when they
are writing their reports. If the mine could only
become self-supporting, another ewe of the old
Gaffney’s fold might also get on its feet again. This
is the Dempsey’s, now the New Dempsey’s. Both
mines have been hummers in their day, but at depth
the floors of quartz so far have not carried the same
rich gold, nor has the quartz been of such extent.
This has happened likewise at Wood’s Point and at
Jamieson, where work was also done on the dykes.
Still, the mountaineer is brimful of hope that an-
other Victor’s shoot may be got, and calls flow
steadily into a most tantalising locality.
* * * *
Six months after date, Briseis (Tas.),
hands out its report, minus the accounts, to the
Australian shareholders. The s v jw is the biggest in
alluvial tin in Tassy. Originally a local co. owned
it, and next a Melbourne crowd ; then it was passed
on to J. Bull by “Little” Langford, who succeeded
in getting enough capital to bring a water supply
from the Ringarooma River. A flood arrived
promptly, and burst up two pots—first, the original
flowery estimate of millions in sight; next, the
London project to market scrip at a high price. Then
consulting-engineer Currie got the job, and shaved
things down to proper size. Lindesay Clark was
taken from the Anchor mine to put things straight,
and the New Brothers Home No. 1 was collared on
a tribute basis. Lastly, the North Ringarooma leases
were yarded in. The Briseis and the New Brothers
Home No. 1 are now gutted; what remains lies in
the deep ground left underfoot by the Krushka
family, and under the basalt in the North Ringa-
rooma lease. To get to these deposits the river has
been swung behind the Krushka flat, making con-
tinuous work possible. Lindesay Clark reckons to
get from the Ringarooma lease 7,500,000 cub. yds.
of drift and 1,200,000 cub. yds. of overburden con-
taining about 4500 tons of black tin. This equals
3400 tons of metallic tin, worth £680,000 at £2OO
per ton. To get it will cost anything from £67 to
£ll4 per ton of metallic tin, according to extent
of the overlying basalt and burden. This estimate
is apart from 750 tons of tin oxide still to be got
out of the Krushka flat. Yet all that the cautious
Lindesay Clark says is that, with a good price for
metallic tin, very large quantities remain to be treated,
and that it will be treated profitably in spite of
greater difficulties than formerly. As a side-show
the co. has gold-dredging leases in Victoria, where
last year it rooted out £36,087 of gold at a running
cost of 2.73 d. per cub. yd. from the 1,547,600yd5.
treated. Some of the ground went as high as 6.9 d. per
yd., so no wonder old Jimmy Wallace and his widow
held that a fortune was hidden in the leases.
* * * *
“Collins Street”: Cloncurry (Q.) is the
biggest copper field in Australia, but the methods of
some of the groups that control its principal mines
are rapidly putting Cloncurry scrip in the same
street as that of Cobar. In the Cobar street you are
asked to credit impossible and though you
may believe the mine isn’t worth 2s. 6d. a share, you
daren’t “short” them, and you may lose money by
not buying them at 40 or 50 shillings above what
you are satisfied is their real value. Similarly, the
Hampden is jockeyed up and down. The certainty
of the present labor trouble was known to a few a
week before it was published, and the Macgregor
purchase was said to have been dictated by other
considerations than the desire for silicious ores. I
would like to know how much of Hampden ore treated
last half was purchased during that half, and how
much purchased ore was represented by re-treated
matte. But this question is probably as unanswer-
able as the extent of the Mount Elliott “creep” and
the ferocity of the “fire” in the Hampden Consols.
Now a group of financiers is after Mount Oxide, and
the present co. is feeling the squeeze, and queer
things are being done in the stable. Anyhow, they’ve
got to have the mine; Oxide and Cuthbert are
wanted to stop the Elliott “creep” and extinguish
the ferocious fire in Hampden Consols.
* * * *
The Brilliant, Charters Towers (Q.), for
the half-year made leeway to the extent of £2908,
reducing its cash balance to £1323. The co.’s
Stockholm mine crushed 3602 tons for an average
of £2 19s. 4d., and 587 tons were crushed from the
Brilliant lease for an average of £3 3s. 2d. Heavy
expenditure on mining and development work smoth-
ered the profit. For instance, at the Brilliant lease
some 1550 ft. of driving, rising and sinking were
done in pursuit of the erratic Day Dawn reef, and
the best make of stone found had a length of only
100 ft., and averaged £3 10s. per ton for a width
of 3ft. Recently the Stockholm has shown improved
prospects, for the shaft, after passing through a big
blank, has entered what appears to be another shoot
of mineralised stone below No. 13 plat. Much more
work will have to be done before the value of this
make can be determined. The Stockholm to date has
crushed 61,350 tons for £190,675.
* * * *
Last month Great Fitzroy (Q.) reckoned
it had £2727 to the good after paying working
costs. For the past three months estimated revenue
has exceeded expenditure by £4952, so if the copper
market, the mine and the smelting plant could be
trusted for a whole year, the working profit would
begin to look a trifle more healthy. Still, with man-
agement exes., debenture interest and depreciation
carved out, there wouldn’t be much left for share-
holders. Last month the output was 202 tons
blister copper, containing 200.48 tons fine copper,
1117 oz. gold, and 26130 z. silver. The cost of pro-
ducing copper continues very high: expenditure last
month was £14,831 for 202 tons of blister. If it
wasn’t for the gold contents the co. couldn’t stand
it even with copper up where it is.
* * * *
The success of Tongkah and Tongkah
Compound is producing a crop of Malay tin pro-
positions. Skipper “Teddy” Miles’s Debook Dredging
Co. was mentioned the other day: 42,000 shares taken
by the vendors, 38,000 to the public (rushed
promptly), and 20,000 reserved. Miles, who saw the
possibilities of Tongkah and secured it for his
Hobart jam-making friends, drops a characteristic
note: “You see, E.T.M. is much in evidence —he’s
discoverer, prospector, promoter and organiser. ’Tis
my bantling, 'and I intend to control it.” [He is
to be managing director for five years at not less
than £lOOO a year.] “The Miles family, with
Tongkah experience, will fill the most responsible
positions, and stand or fall by the result. Any
shareholders who doubt the Miles’s capacity to handle
the property had better pull out; they can have
their money back on application to me within 12
months. Vendors’ shares are locked up for that
period.” The captain has lost no time. A power-
ful, up-to-date dredge has been put in hand by
Charles Ruwolt Proprietary, the Australian firm
which built the Tongkah Compound dredge. “After
inspecting all the dredges working in ‘the East,
British, Dutch and Australian, I decided, said
Miles, “to place the order in Australia.”
Follows the Katoo Deebook Co., a float-off. In
this, 42,000 shares go to the public and the vendors
and holders of the surface rights take 38,000 between
them. The vendor co. underwrites the public issue
for 10 p.c. in money. Apparently surface rights
belonged originally to the holders of rice-fields and
such like, who had to be bought off. So far as can
be ascertained, the ground has not been closely bored,
but 60 bores spread over 300 acres of the original
Deebook ground gave an average of over 21b., which
is luscious if it is good or even fair dredging ground.
The Austral-Malay Tin Trust, Ltd., is a Sydney
concern, with the jam-manufacturers still promi-
nent. It recently joined an English crowd in the
flotation of one of its original options, and now puts
off the Kampong-Kamunting Co. —50,000 to the
public, 50,000 to the vendors, while 30,000 appar-
ently go in underwriting, etc. Prospects of these
ventures may be excellent; but the vendors’ bite is
getting larger and larger, and there will be a kick
coming shortly.
* * * *
“No Importa”: The Commonwealth Gov-
ernment has notified each State Government that
it would be obliged if, when issuing licenses or
leases to search for oil, it would insert a clause giv-
ing the State a pre-emptive right to buy the oil
produced. The reason offered is that the Australian
navy will require 80,000 tons of oil some day not
very far away. Well, it won’t hurt the oil miner
to have a sure and easy market on the spot for his
produce. And this point leads to another of import-
ance. If the Commonwealth Government thus pro-
hibits the export of oil and makes sure it gets what
it wants for its navy, why should it throttle the
development of the oil industry in Papua by refusing
to grant leases to private oil prospectors? Surely it
might throw the whole Possession open to the oil
pioneer once it has made sure of getting all the oil
it wants. In the Northern Territory the awful mis-
take has been made under the oil-mining ordinance
of limiting an oil area to 40 acres. This is unfair
to the industry and unfair to the people who are
putting money into a highly speculative pursuit.
For every oil bore does not reveal petroleum, and 40
acres is a mere trifling plot to offer anybody who is
risking his money to prove a new and most valuable
industry. To spoil a combine is possibly meritorious,
but to go to the other extreme and not give a fair
reward to the man who cannot hurt the community
or its Government is extremely short-sighted. This
writer has seen most of the oil countries on the
planet, and he predicts that both Papua and North
Australia will be developed and peopled through
striking oil, and lots of it.


iH3iir.i?:r3
ciidVljr’dwi* - *
mimMi
HEERINGi
HEERING’S
COPENHAGEN
CHERRY
BRANDY.
Est. 1818.
A
DR. SHELDON’S DIGESTIVE TABDLES
are a positive cure for Indigestion, Flatulence, Heart-
burn, Acidity of Stomach, and all Stomach Troubles.
Price, Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. per tin. Obtainable
everywhere.*
gtiuom
RENOWNED
sd
BRAND
STUHR,
STUHR’S
Genuine Caviare,
Anchovies in Brine
(SALTED SARDELS).
In Tins and Glasses.
Sold by all Hig-h-class Provision Dealers.
C. F. STUHR & CO., HAMBURG.
English Export Agent:
W. LOVEGROVE, LONDON, E.C.
VERY OLD COGNAC.
OTARD BRANDY
1875, 1860, 1848, 1820 VINTAGES.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, June 9, 1913.
My Dear Arini, —
Merchant W. 11. Perry and his attractive
little wife are snowballing on the sloping
shoulder of old Kosciusko. They are Bris-
bane folk, and she is as swift as a chamois
when she gets on the skis. A few winters
amongst the Swiss Alps are responsible for
the cute expression of Mrs. Perry’s number
two shoes, when she gets into her snow
stride. The Brisbane pair were snapped by
a camera, as two voters who ski-ed to mark
the ballot paper, across a landscape that
looked like an impressionist sketch in white
cotton wool.
Mrs. Kettlewell (“Agnes Storrie”) sends
a line from Milan, where she is steeped in
sepia-tinted meditations on mediaeval cathe-
drals. Naples, Rome, Florence and Vienna
lie behind the Sydney traveller, who has a
young daughter or two under her wing. She
records: “VVe are becoming regular connois-
seurs in saints, martyrs and old masters.
We now realise in what a narrow groove
the middle centuries’ imagination trickled,
when it materialised in stone, marble or
pigment.”
The Ilall-Jones people have torn them-
selves away from Sydney. Papa, as an ex-
High Commissioner for M.L. and an ex-
politician, is so coy about speaking his mind
that he hasn’t been coaxed into saying what
he really means to do. He is the most silent
ex-carpenter in these parts. Mamma and
the girls want to live in N.S.W. —up the
North Sydney line for choice. But no defi-
nite reply can be squeezed out of the dis-
creet W. Hall-Jones. He wears an in-
scrutable smile and says, “We’ll see about
it.”
The always-busy little Mrs. R. H. Todd
is rushing off to Europe with her husband,
her knitting, her work-bag, the last copy of
the Woman’s Budget (which she edits), a
deck chair, a travelling cushion, a bottle of
smelling salts, and a few thousand other
necessaries of life. She leaves behind an
out-size in Irish terriers, with a ferocious
smile. He will put out the cat and the
milk jug (when he thinks of it) during the
family’s absence. Dr. Todd has the same
breathless energy as his wife. He is a
barrister, a doctor of medicine, a deputy
■coroner, and an ardent amateur musician
when he isn’t sitting on Wages Boards. His
Wages Board occupation gives him a chance
to sit down sometimes. Lions, tigers, and
snakes with early Australian paintings on
their stomachs, are included in the Todd
bobbies. He is on the executive of the Syd-
ney Zoo. While tearing through Europe, he
proposes to have a glance at Continental
menageries, notably the famous German set-
ting for wild beasts, and a three-year-old
baby Zoo in Rome.
Society cowered under its furs at the
O’Connor girls’ concert, the night having a
sharp nip in its chilly breath. Mrs. Alex.
Gordon took all sorts of trouble to intro-
duce Miss Kathleen O’Connor’s mezzo
soprano voice to the Sydney public. It
was purely a social function. Friends of
the late Justice R. E. O’Connor filled the
Y.M.C.A. Hall, and a waggon-load of
flowers were handed up to his two daughters.
Laurence Godfrey Smith sat before the
piano. Society wore a distinctly intelli-
gent expression about its back hair when
the silvery notes of Mrs. Margaret (Thomas)
Gordon warbled “Love is Meant to Make
Us Glad.” Winifred O’Connor was the ac-
companist. Both sisters were dressed in
the last fashionable flutter of white satin
shimmer, in the skimpy Empire style. _ A
modern appendix—the tiny fish-tail train —
wiped the floor with a few inches of attenu-
ated rag.
The appalling snobbery of local “Society”
was seen at its best at the O’Connor girls’
concert. When the little Henrietta Strick-
land, a small child in a simple white frock,
arrived, the fuss to seat that youngster was
equal to the agitation that the sudden ap-
pearance of George V. munching a large slice
of birthday cake would cause in Piccadilly.
H. N. Southwell alone remained calm. He
refused to turn the whole front row of chairs
inside out, in spite of the excitement of the
occupants of the best seats. Finally, after
prolonged negotiations, the vice-regal mite
walked up the hall with the Chief Justice
Cullens. Then there was another deadlock.
There were two large cane chairs intended
for committee and official personages. “The
Governor’s daughter must have a cane
chair,” said one fussy dame wdio would have
squatted on the floor so long as she
breathed the same air as the Govern-
ment House baby with the pink bows in her
hair. Southwell’s face became an under-
study for Maehiavelli. In his most insinuat-
ing tone he approached the ear of the Sacred
infant. “Would you rather have a small
chair or a big one?” “A small one, please,”
said little Henrietta, cutting the knot of
etiquette that says the elect must sit on a
rush-bottomed seat.
The law and the profits (as seen in the
furs of Mrs. Lawyer) prevailed. Judges,
barristers and solicitors swarmed like bees
at the O’Connor evening. Mrs. C. G. Wade,
heavily rugged in a grey fur coat, with a
young daughter, and Wade, jun., with his
hair beautifully greased straight off his brow
—the Justice Simpsons, Prings, Fergusons,
Heydons, the Pritchard Bassetts, and a score
or two more legal tomes supported the con-
cert.
St. James’s Hall was packed for Grim-
wood’s production of a York mystery play.
“The Trial Before Herod,” is one of those
fragments of the mediaeval attitude towards
dramatic phases of religious history which
the Modernist finds it hard to assimilate.
The MacCallum speech before the event
paved the way. The little professor’s learned
spectacles flashed under the only light the
producer allowed at this enoch, as
the lecturer read page after page of
closely written notes. The stage was
draped in black. The hall was as
dark as the middle of the night. Out of the
gloom came the chanting monks and passed
up to the side of the funereal curtains to
melt away as chorus in the wing. When the
curtain rolled up, Herod, a magnificent
Idumaean, gorgeously upholstered in bar-
baric court trappings, was revealed with, at
his side, a Hebraic-looking Gentleman Help,
wearing a Whitechapel scowl. Herbert
Grimwood, with strongly marked Jewish fea-
tures —the Jew and the Philistine and the.
Idumaean shared the same nose, so the fea-
tures didn’t matter- —was a tremendous
personage as Herod, Hignet, as the Christ
in captivity, had nothing to do but look
beneficent. Roman soldiers and sundries
were a useful setting to the dominant Herod.
The Hospice Ball will occur on June xB,
in the Town Hall. After that date a hard-
worked committee w 7 ill find time to put its
hair in curling pins, and place its tired feet
up on a sofa. At present it is chasing known
and unknown gallery attractions for the
event. Hugh Ward will lend his massive
aid to this part of the programme. The
afternoon entertainment, June 12. (in
Paling’s concert room), has been arranged
by Mrs. William Macleod. Bispham, Reg
Roberts (who nobly steps out of light opera
for the occasion), Minnie Everett’s pupils,
and records of Melba, Caruso and John
Lemmone are included in a list of attractions
as long as your countenance on a wet day.
Adeline Genee represents a slim volume
full of the poetry of motion, as she walks
across a room. The famous dancer has the
exquisite simplicity of manner which makes
affectation —when it gets in her company —as
tawdry as the wares in a second-hand clo’
shop. She is what all celebrities ought'to
be (and frequently are not), absolutely free
from “side,” which is the same thing as
“frill,” and undistinguishable from “dog.”
(Why people should put on “dog” instead of
“lion” I know not.) At the supper party
given by the J. C. Williamson-Ward man-
agement in her honor, Gen6e was the most
unassuming person in the room. Looking
taller than she is, by reason of her slimness,
the graceful Dane is like one of those meek
Puritans we read about, but never see at
fancy-dress balls. Put a prayer-book in her
hand, and she might be coming home from a
Sunday-school class. Corn-colored hair, with
a glint of sunshine in its sleek waves, is
demurely brushed close to the shapely head.
Blue eyes, and the smile of a happy child,
complete one’s first impression of this charm-
ing creature. Her white frock had the
same Mayflower touch. The flash of a dia-
mond chain round her throat was the only
suggestion of affluence about the Gen6e ap-
pearance.
The supper which the J.C.W. firm hurled
at the gentle Adeline, when she stepped
ashore here, began at 11.30 p.m., or later.
It reached the speeches at 2 a.m., or there-
abouts. Hugh Ward and his comely dame,
as host and hostess, took the centre of the
long table that held one consignment of sup-
perites. Lily Brayton, very handsome, and
frankly undressed about her bust measure-
ment, had Bispham at her left shoulder.
Oscar Asche wears a corrugated expression
these days, and shows the pnysical strain of
his terrific attack on the scenic side of his art.
He cheerfully described himself as a mongrel
Australian-Norwegian, and some kind of a
relative of Gen€e, since his father had been
born a hundred miles of so from the dancer’s
native land. But native lands are very close
together in Europe—there were once about
2000 of them in Germany alone —so this
means less than might appear. Niblo im-
plored the lady not to believe that the Firm
met every arrival with a champagne party —
far from it. His own step off on Australian
soil had been unmarked by anything of the
kind. Comedian Percy used “the smiling
wheat fields of Australia” as a refrain to
his monologue. Nevin Tait, with his hair
combed severely off his managerial forehead,
and a large gathering of theatrical and
press representatives, welcomed Gende till
the morning milk was rattling through the
streets. The company got home just in
time to let in the dissipated family cat,
which had been making a night of it on the
top of a factory chimney.
Minister for Education Carmichael tore
aside the mauve drapery that veiled the
Ohlfsen medallions the other evening. They’re
gummed to the wall of the Little Theatre, on
either side of the stage. Goethe and Shaks-
peare are the subjects. Mrs. Carmichael,
the veteran Chancellor MacLaurin, the Ohlf-
sen herself, the Cullens, Dr. Cecil Purser
nand his bright-eved lady, the Bob Mac Ki-
nons, from North Sydney, the W. G. Laytons,
and a few other well-known identities, were
dotted about the stalls for the occasion.
The blue-eyed M.L. contralto, Eva Cham-
pion, has married an English tenor of some
size. The owner of the tenor is John Philip
Wilson. The groom’s uncle, Rector Wilson,
of Selsey, Sussex, tied the knot. Eva you
will remember as the pretty little warbler
who was sent to England by the Sydney
branch of the Girls’ Realm Guild to con-
tinue the vocal art. She was a pupil of
Mrs. Reginald Queenel (now of Adelaide
Conservatorium) before going to London.
In the great city of Bullopolis she studied
in the aviary of a Greek expert in voice
production, whose name is so much like the
sound of a Bulgarian mobilisation with a
bad cold, or a Servian army forming itself
into a hollow square or a hollow mockery,
or something, that I’ve forgotten how to
spell it. Eva is at present dimpling all over
with smiles. She and her new property, the
long and handsome Wilson, reached Aus-
tralia in the Otway. Tliey had a look in
at Adelaide and will honeymoon through
the States, with a final call at the Dominion
of Massey-Ward.
An Australian abroad recently had a
glimpse of Ola Humphrey. She was stay-
ing in the same hostel in N’York. Ola, it
appears, is not divorced from her Pharaoh.
The Khedive, who is a cousin of Ibrahim
Hassan, is trying to arrange a settlement.
As this highly respectable Turko-Egyptian
family hasn’t had, so far as the public, can
remember, a strangling, smoth«nnsr. noison-
ing, drowning in a bag or a divorce in its
family for about 30 vears —that is to say,
ever since the British occupation made
things of the sort unsafe —a judicial sepa-
ration is likely to be arranged. A reason-
able share of loot ought to be handed over
to Ola, who had a stormy moon in Paris
with her Ibrahim. But the provision isn’t
likely to be magnificent, for the Pharaohs,
I am told, aren’t exceedingly rich nowa-
days. They have never had another Trea-
surer like Joseph of Genesis. The present
Pharaoh had a grandfather who spent about
£47,000,000 of loan money on ballet dancers
and grand pianos, and the firm has been
more or less in liquidation ever since. Ola’s
cards are still branded H.R.H. “She
was clothed in gold and blue when I saw
her going off to a big evening party. There
wasn’t too much of either, and the draperies
were as substantial as a cobweb,” says the
Sydneysider. “When she lifted anything
there was of skirt, she showed a good deal
of leg through the half-inch mesh of gold
fish-net stockings. A gold turban was
perched on her head. The effect was
gorgeous and Egyptian, if scanty in
material. She might have been Mrs.
Khedive taking a taxi to her Cairo throne
reserve.”
Bispham’s concert on Saturday afternoon
dragged two-thirds of the musical profession
to the Town Hall. Secret fastnesses be-
hind Paling’s music shop, and green baize
doors in Nicholson’s, that close as softly as
the shutting down of the Night when Day
drags its silent luggage over the rim of the
western horizon, scattered forth the in-
numerable teachers of uncounted fiddles,
pianos and voices. Florence Young, a selec-
tion from the Niblo company, and a score
or two of comic-opera feet trod the muni-
cipal boards that always creak when the
owners arrive rather sharp on time at 3
p.m. Mrs. Hugh Ward, swathed in ermine,
Laurence Godfrey Smith, who has assimi-
lated Bispham as a regular habit, Mrs. G.
L. Goodman and Mrs. Rutter, Eva Gauthier,
with the John Toohey dame, the
Asche pair, Genee, and a large con-
course of the general public who had
firmly resisted the rival attraction of a
football match, filled the body of the hall.
Bispham’s sonorous baritone showed signs
of fatigue in the classic “Where’er You
Walk” (Handel). He came into his own,
exhilarated and warmed up by the tumul-
tuous applause of a live wire audience
(isn’t that what they call it in N’York?)
when the “Erl King” and the “Two Grena-
diers” thundered through the Town Hall
echoes. The charm and tenderness of the
Bispham way with Irish ballads, notably
“Oft in the Stilly Night”—a gem of vocal
art as it floated over the matinee footlights
■ —suggest an idea. Why doesn’t Manager
Shipman arrange an Irish ballad concert?
Pianist Harry Gilbert put in ten minutes
or so hard labor with Leschetizky’s Sextette
from “Lucia di Lammermoor” at Saturday’s
concert. This is arranged for the left hand
only. Any time off duty the right hand
snatched, during the frantic flight up and
down the keyboard of the scorching left in
“Lucia” it needed. The next item was
Godard’s “En Route,” which is a
combination of a menagerie, a penny ferry
and a Melbourne express raging all over
the piano at the same time. It is arranged
for two hands, but needs quite six to get
through comfortably. Some performers
strike a note with the nose when all their
other extremities are engaged. Gilbert, who
is probably one of the mildest-mannered
’Murkans who ever attacked a grand piano,
blotting-papered his dripping brow, and
looked as if he’d been breaking up blue
metal after this jiu-jitsu struggle with
“En Route.” It caught a determined en-
core. As usual, he accompanied the exten
sive Bispham voice.
The Sydney College of Music welcomed
the returned F. Barron Morley at the W
tralia the other afternoon. ‘ Hector Mao
lean, Albert Fischer, J. B. White, S. Gordon
Lavers and other ribs of this musical bodv
were arranged like ninepins inside the
drawing-room door, with Pianist Morlev in
the middle. Judge Backhouse, one of the
speakers, lamented that he hadn’t a decent
singing voice to sing the praise of Aus-
tralians abroad who did honor to their
native land or something of the kind \
slight sprinkling of Anglican clergy had the
satisfying effect of grace before meat.
The first Morley piano recital in the
Town Hall took the cold chill off an oasis
of audience in a desert of cane chairs
Sydney is still rather coy about one-man
shows. Lady King-Hall and a young daughter
slipped quietly into seats which gave them
an uninterrupted view of the Barron
Morley technique, and his technique is
worth looking at. He is creeping up along-
side Leonard Borwick as a pianist, and
may be comforted to know that the Borwick
recitals began here with a larger acreage of
the empty Austrian thing you would sit
down upon if you were there but which
your absence leaves vacant than last week’s
display. Morley ought to have been worth
a quarter’s lessons to observant youngsters
from girls’ colleges. His fingers flash over
the keys like forked lightning. In soft
passages this long Australian with the edu-
cated German moustache caresses the
ivories with the velvet touch of a butter-
fly’s kiss. Chopin’s Sonata in B Minor
was a brilliant example of the Morley
prowess. The second recital will have
occurred before this reaches you.
When the printer’s devil soaks his feet
in red ink and jumps on ton of the Macs,
the yells of the wounded may be heard in
our best suburbs. Mrs. Macneill Simpson
tooß on the hon. sec. business of the Civil
Ambulance ball again this year at her own
risk. Last winter only one printer’s imp
in 10 would spell Macneill so that it didn’t
look like a Highland gathering with a
and mountainous N in the middle. In spite
of these casualties, the Ambulance ball will
occur on July 10.
The fifth annual show of the Arts and
Crafts Society was declared to be well and
truly open, by S. M. Herald proprietor,
James Fairfax, the other day. As president
of the Society, which is 99 per cent, femi-
nine, Miss Fairfax took up a commanding
position near her parent’s left elbow.
Artist Ethel Stephens hovered in the same
vicinity. Committee-women Mildred Creed
and Bernice Edwell snatched half-a-bird’s-
eye view of the proceedings near the receipt
of custom, with the Royal Art Society’s lift
in the perspective. A large gathering of
opening-day guests, who look about with a
pleased smile and a futurist expression (the
expression that hints that they may
spend half-a-crown at next year’s show)
about their handbags, swirled round
the exhibits. Some of the exhibits
were alive. One of the Leist sisters
tap-tapped at copper in the raw. Millicent
Elliot, heavily disguised in working over-
alls, explained the exact way to evolve the
tail of a peacock, with the aid of pvrography.
Ada Newman, Emily E. Roberts, Elizabeth
Soderberg, Florence Leist and Bernice Ed-
well are responsible for some of the best
work in a good, all-round show of leather
art, painted china, pottery, metal designing,
and enamelling. The solitary male exhibi-
tor, Joseph Corby, boldly hung out his sign
as a designer of stained-glass decorative
effects, in the middle of the lady Arts and
Crafters’ pots and pans.
The long, soft, silky sealette coat is
pressed into active service by the Fortunate
Few these wintry days. I noticed a special
dispensation of Providence in this alluring
style, at the “Herod” mystery play. On a
bleak, dun-grey afternoon it was warm and
comforting to look at. No sneezes whistled
round the cosy person of Miss Lottie Gil-
bert, who was rugged inside this particular
Eskimo wrap.
The bird, as seen on the Most Expensive
hats, is wired to look like. a biplane two
minutes before it whirrs . into the atmos-
phere. One wing, long pointed, and quiver-
ing for flight if a puff of westerly catches
it round a corner, stands erect half a dozen
inches above the velvet crown. The bod?
is flat and comatose. The second wing lies
low, tucked up under the rolling brim. A
small scarlet fowl, on a hat of this up to
date species, was spread for flight on Mrs.
Harry Levy’s glossy locks the other after-
noon.
“There is no German menace,” says H.
Hemmer, German journalist, traveller ana
lecturer. He gave some reasonable grounds'
for his optimistic theory in the T.M.LA.
Hall the other night. Attractive pic-
tures on the screen illustrated the gi}P
the Teutonic peasant has on his native sou,
and his passionate desire to stay there. Gei-
many discourages any efforts to remove i
able-bodied rural population from their he
ditary holdings—mostly 20-acre blocks. Aus-
tralia has a good deal to learn from
many, judging by the Hemmer remarks re
close settlement on the land, j i
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


fcSp l*fe "■? 7*-‘ Vi“r;;:^:r-'::-C^.::-::-c::r'^:.r-
-!i'ij|||||| * ,1,
..!
•;- i n
Ml
■
!; ;>•:
r «
H» V '
¥
'N
*
m
■/
m-
&
u
£&?•
'W*.
fc
>*y
«\
4>
V
*#* ~sif
kM
m
mm #iSfe
ft*’ - ;/.®
//„s4
•>v<
fJbt
m
//Mmi
//«
8?:
1
rwi
&SP
if
•; V
m
...ft;
— *.■
,/V
aft
&a
.. .
&as
m
sss
£*&&*>&
i^i*v
9uSSS*m3S
'
■ri
''2P3S&2S
a
m
Uv •'•-•
HI
ft
km
cW
j
-,- -■ v.
i|lSLi
A ,
S'n't
•7r^
Mil
fen.
=? l2Hsg
_v>Aaa«
:u • •
**
■!
SE
:">:t
WmmqmM
'im?
«
4#S
s»«g«*
S&Sfe
JrA
f
ip
f /'i
s§ii
si«
w-rr
PHI
sg3s
m
g. y^S^Sßß^a
ffl
b'.WK
O'*
£?s*
mt.
Mm
mr&isgjr*
>, *-\*r.
A'l v
.«wi^w»iw^ J »~ l £;aiaaiaiia3i
M
i d M & t
'/vys*
14
Cobra, Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Ss a champion
With the cue.
When a big break
He is making,
HIS slim hand is
Never shaking.
But his cue —
Of which he’s fond
Seems a long
Magician’s wand.
As the red flies
Like a rocket
Straight into the
Waiting pocket.
Someone murmurs
In the hall.
“‘COBRA’ scores
Above them all I”


hsd
Farmer’s New vSection
for vSuits-to-Measure.
One of the most striking features in our new Tailoring Section is
the clear daylight, which enables patrons to make their selections of
suitings under the best possible conditions for judging of design,
quality, coloring and value. The department is completely fitted
with the most modern furnishings, to conduce to the comfort of
patrons. It is accessible by special staircase and elevator from
Market Street doorway.
SMART WINTER SUITINGS.
Special values in Scotch and Irish Tweeds —goods bought at the
lowest prices by us, direct from the manufacturers, and offered to
you at special prices. These are ideal fabrics for Winter wear, and
are in shades of Grey, Brown and Fawn. All Suits are cut and fitted
by our expert Cutters. We invite your inspection. Send for
Patterns, Self-Measurement Forms, etc. They are post free.
SUITS-TO-MEASURE—
-84/-, 90 -, 95/-, £5 fa £5 5 -
FARMER’S, Sydney.
wrr
: \
/
*
-T
Dunlop
Rubber
Heels
for
Comfort
and Wear.
Walk on Soft Rubber
It’s far more comfortable, besides
being cheaper, than on hard
leather heels that rack and jar
the nerves. To get the BEST
RESULTS specify “DUNLOP”
brand. TRY THEM!
ALL BOOT SHOPS.
RUBBER!! EELS
DUNLOP
RUBBER CO.
All Sut««
And N.Z.
kv
Jg M
The
pleasure
of
Cycling
depends
on the
Tyres
used .
If you order
DUNLOP
TYRES
you make a certainty
of riding the Best that
money can produce, for
these Tyres are Easily
the most Reliable and
Durable obtainable.
Accept no cheap substitutes.
Protect yourself by
seeing that Tyres bear
this Trade Mark
A
ALL AGENTS.
DUNLOf ROBBER CO. All M* l "^
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, June 9, 1913.
My Dear Yarrie,
G.-G. Denman is fond of the ice. On Fri-
day he put in a solid afternoon at the Glaci-
arium ; but before his small purple car shoved
its headlights round the picture-show corner,
an advance telephone message was sent from
Government House, asking or imploring that
the band refrain from Gorsaving when his
Ex. appeared on the floor —upright, of
course. If the little potentate had been over-
looked in the crowd, his presence would have
been indicated by the tall Barttelot pair at
his distinguished heels. Help Burnham,
also, is too tall a signpost to be missed; and
the wife of the new Secretary, who was
present with her skates, would have helped
to put Society on the vice-regal trail. Per-
haps, though, he only wanted to escape from
the tune. Lesly Madden, who recently had
the bad luck to cut her foot while slithering
round, won a fresh batch of condolences by
spraining her wrist. A handsome young
medico in the chrysalis stage tenderly bound
up the injured member, while the limelight
of public interest beat on his devoted head.
The Birthday meeting, at Flemington on
Saturday, attracted a good field of society
sports. An assortment of Government
House inmates fled out in a purple motor,
w'hile another batch trundled sedately behind
In a horse-drawn brougham. The grass-
widowed G.-G. looked extremely cheerful, and
wore his boxer hat at a saucy tilt. His
distinguished feet were wrapped in white
spats. A rough grey overcoat, an umbrella with
a crooked handle, and check trousers, were
other features of his racing make-up. Cham-
berlain Nevill, Help Barttelot, and the visit-
ing Victor Hood mostly had their heads
jammed together over their betting books.
The Barttelot lady was a vision in ploughed-
■earth browns. She gave the searching
feminine eye passing glimpses of the latest
coat rever —a big, black flap that lies like
•a pirate flag across the chest. Mrs. Guise
wore a sensational hat, and paraded the lawn
with the checked G.-G. (You know! the
gentleman with the white spats.) The re-
markable headgear was flat, about 2ft. long,
and had a whole ostrich outfit on the roof,
while a dozen or so purple roses clung for
their lives to the underside of the brim. Any
!hat-builder could get the same effect by steer-
ing some totally irresponsible individual into
a room filled with hat ammunition, and
solemnly binding herself to compose what-
ever he picked up. Mrs. Chester xManifold’s
head-covering said, quite plainly, “Cocky
wants a biscuit! Scratch Cocky!” Mrs. Jack
Wallace gave a lunch party that was heavily
feathered but not tarred. Olive Godwin,
just arrived from England, was wrapped
carefully in squirrel furs. She mixed greet-
ings with a declaration that the manage-
ment had given her just a week to prepare
for “Miss Hook.” The Mornington Grices
came along in full force to see a son of the
house ride Sharebroker. Mrs. Everard
Browne brought a Camperdown girl or two
in her train. The Millers and Curries
haunted the Birdcage. Heiress Marie
Hall (now just in sight of her
twenty-first birthday and Grandpa Watson’s
thousands) trotted about smilingly in
a coat of black fur and a hearse
plume that waved a foot above her toque.
Mrs. Holden, of the Grand Hotel, in a mag-
pie outfit of black and white, shepherded a
party of visitors from her home city of
Sydney. Mrs. Willie Kelly was all in white.
Between races, society kept itself warm by
sipping tea and hot gossip under the elms.
G.-G. Denman gave a party to about 600,
on Saturday night, by way of marking the
Birthday with a champagne cork and a
picked bone. The new local recipients of
gauds had them inflicted before the feasting
started. The bulk of the guests —the com-
mon or hedge variety—were not bidden till
late. At about 10 o’clock, the motors started
to whir up to the ballroom entrance with
their occupants muffled to the eyes against
the frosty snap, and the headlights shining
mistily in the dark drive. Purple flunkeys
handed the animated bundles out of the cars
and up the steps to larger footmen, who put
the newly-arrived through cloak-room drill
and then passed them on further to gigantic
footmen —great strong men with calves that
were nearly cows. These (the footmen) de-
manded entrance cards, and, having got
them, swung open the glass doors leading to
the sacred interior. As it wrns a sort of
lev6e, his Ex. received by himself. He looked
:a mighty little man. (As a matter of cold
fact, that’s just what he is!) But, if I may
say so, he looked extra small this time, cos-
tumed as he was in glittering baubles and
measuring his length against the purple,
20-foot background of the dais. Alongside
the step, and towering companionably stood
Chamberlain NeviU, scarlet as a fresh-boiled
lobster. He mentioned the names of the
guests walking two and two, and, if the
Governor knew them already, he didn’t let
on. Also, if he didn’t know them from crows,
he refrained from looking too surprised, and
adopted a friendly air that seemed to sug-
gest that he had been more or less aware of
their proximity for some considerable time
past. So far as is known, he didn’t reel
back from anyone and ask harshly how he
had got in. Such is vice-regal reserve. The
procession made a complete show-ring circle
of the ballroom, and was adjudged by ex-
perts a very fine body of appetites. The
Barttelot lgdy swam in with the guest crowd
from the far door, and showed a fine expanse
of white shoulder. Dame Best, all in black,
helped her Robert to limp across the shining
floor. Best fell and injured his leg on.(no!
that’s getting back to Federal politics!).
However, he looked very cheerful, in spite
of his misfortune. Mrs. Isaacs had legal
daughter Nancy along. Phyllis Clarke Power
wore a Grecian band of diamonds in her
black hair, and inhabited a lavender gown.
Dresses were crushed and obscured in the
crush. One woman said pettishly to her
dutiful and respectful husband, “Remember,
I have a fish tail to this gown!” The poor
man sighed wearily, “Well, darling. I've
got a swallow-tail!” The crowd forged
ahead blindly by sheer weight towards the
end of the room. Little Willy Kelly stood
away out near the big doors. He may have
yearned to show off his slim black-
silk legs, and his diamond buckled
garters, and his black-velvet suit. With
the addition of a frilled collar and
a curly wig, he could have played
Little Lord Fauntleroy at a moment’s notice.
Some of the men were so beautifully uphol-
stered that the women had to set to and pay
them compliments. “Oh, you do look nice!’’
was heard on every hand. And didn’t the
men love it! Mrs. Percy Chirnside —poor
prisoner of wealth! —walked slowly, fet-
tered with strings of diamonds and neck
ropes of pearls. Mrs. George Chirnside posed
prettily underneath a sky-sign of diamonds.
Two of the Very Nicest women glared at
each other in speechless indignation. Some
infuriating dressmaker or dressmakers had
built their gowns exactly alike. Each had
a dinky little row of crystals on a horribly
expensive cut of black chiffon, and each
would have been a source of unending de-
light, only the exact replica was always in
sight. Mrs. Jack Baillieu looked
blossomy and sweet in white, and
sister Lesly Madden shone with green irides-
cence and slumped with a green peggy bag
that should been wrested from her, and
cast out with the tongs, and solemnly erased
from the artistic records by an A.D.C. in
full uniform. A Fairbairn daughter wore a
trifling frock, also a scrap or two of black
chiffon and tulle, and sported two red orna-
ments in her reddish-fair hair. Colonel Bal-
lenger, in military scarlet, brought a demure
little daughter in black. General Gordon
and Colonel Stanley added vivid uniforms
to the mass. The air was full of talk about
—-(Ha! a fortunate escape! I was just
about to make a political observation!).
A small pack of riverside flappers out
Kew way are preparing for a spinsters’
dance. They are to display their dimples
and best frocks one evening this month, at
the Recreation Hall, Kew. The hall
grounds have beautiful lawns and shrub-
beries, suitable for theological discussions,
and, providing the weather holds up, it
should be a delightful function. The
youngest Pinschof daughter and a Swin-
burne maiden are amongst the hostesses, also
Enid Wilkinson and Elsa Stewart. It will
be an exclusively youthful function. A grey
patch disqualifies absolutely.
Prahran Town Hall didn’t know itself on
the night of the mayoral revel. An aero-
plane floated overhead, amidst yards of
potted lights, and butter-hued calico was
draped at intervals on the nice white walls.
The Best People were herded on the platform
amongst the greenery, till a crop of buds had
gone through their “coming-out” gyrations
with red-coated partners. After that, they
descended and submitted to the inevitable
flashlight. The next few minutes were de-
voted to getting the smoke and fumes of the
white conflagration out of throats and nos-
trils. The Gaud Mayor, having removed his
rabbit robe of office, wafted himself round in
his silk stockings and frills —a beautiful
sight! His Gaudess was an opulent figure
in gold brocade, with a tiara firmly clamped
on her black hair. Norman Bavles acted as
squire to a number of dames, and Colonel
Ryan rotated in correct military fashion.
Austin Embling’s wife wore her ruddy locks
bound back with a green fillet, but an ag-
gressive bit of feather shot un rocketwise
from the coiffure of Major Kirkby’s missus,
who was inside a crushed sack of faded mus-
tard. The pretty daughter-in-law of a car-
pet or Persian rug knight revealed glimpses
of her best garter, under a daring slash in her
black frock. The Harry Pain couple, Agar
Wynne’s wife, and a fine collection of
familiar faces showed up against the bilious
background.
The programme and menu for the Tasman
frivol was decorated with a very interesting
sketch drawn by explorer-artist Van der
Gracht, who was with Dr. Mawson in the
windy South. He is travelling by the Tas-
man on this, her maiden trip, and intends
to make sketches all the voyage. Some of
these travelling impressions and the Antarc-
tic sketches will be shown later in Sydney.
The artist has been exploring and sketching
in other Australasian quarters, conse-
quently he will have much interesting work
to exhibit.
The new Dutch boat Tasman cheered up
the drab Australian Wharf, last Friday, with
many yards of fluttering hunting. A flurry
of fashionable women disturbed the wharf
dust and chaff with the wheels of their buz-
zing motors. For Captain Goedhius and re-
presentative men from the John Sanderson
firm were “at home,” and Mrs. York Syme,
with brave blue feathers in her bonnet, was
at the top of the gangway with hands
outstretched, waiting to welcome everybody
to music and tea, and speeches and fuss.
Did you ever meet a woman who wouldn’t
hurry towards that sort of thing? As
usual, the attendant band played dreamy
waltzes and brisk two-steps. If any original
person had asked for the “Dead March in
Saul,” they might have politely complied, _or
compromised with Tosti’s “Good-bye,” which
is sad enough for anyone, and honorably
mentions dead leaves. However, nobody
asked the band for anything of the kind, and
the visitors —in strict accordance with estab-
lished custom, wandered up and down and
over the boat, and said some things were
“Marvellous !” and that others were “Won-
derful !” also “They didn’t know what they
would have next, and they’d just love to be
going somewhere in it.” Nobody was par-
ticular as to a destination —they just yearned
to be “going” in it. The remarks made at
these ship-welcoming functions are ter-
ribly original. In the Tasman’s saloon-
lounge is a replica on bronze of
the original screed and sketch from the
diary of the ship’s distinguished namesake.
Some of Tasman’s Australasian wanderings
are pictured with historical exactness on
canvas, and burnt into pottery tiles in the
smoking cabins. (Just think of the thou-
sands of commercial travellers who will puff
smoke at those tiles, and, fixing them with
a critical stare, think in three volumes of
the socks they intend to forcibly sell in what-
ever city they are journeying to! Staring
at something you are quite uninterested in
is a great aid to thought.) But, to get
back to important matters: Tea was a
dainty affair of well-decorated tables and
perfect sandwiches, with pretty, cherry-
frocked Mia-Mia girls fluttering round.
They were so interested in the way the
Javanese stewards tied their turbans that
some worried man solemnly promised to get
an accurate pattern for them.
The pretty little de Jersey Grut-Purchas
bride is back in Melbourne from the Broken
Hill home. Hubby is a connection of Melba
and is gifted with a touch of the family
voice. (This does not seem to have any
direct bearing on the subject, but I had the
information about me.) The pair are stay-
ins? with Mrs. de Jersey Grut, in Toorak,
where the young Mrs. Purchas is receiving
visits from flapper friends, and calling them
“My dear!”, in the proper, proud way that
all young brides have. Hubby is a- No,
no! I told you that before, didn’t I?
Medico Frank Nyulasy has just returned
with his sister from Auckland (M.L.),
after giving away another sister (in
the marriage-service way of speaking)
to C. R. Cowper. The bridegroom
was general superintendent of the Bank
of Australasia in Melbourne, until he
accepted a Maoriland post. For the cere-
mony bride Marguerita w T ore —(Now we get
back to the really interesting part!)—a white
cloth tailored suit, with a bit of white
heather tucked into the collar for luck. Her
hat was a saucy chevalier style in white
velvet, with flowing white feathers. Sister
Laura, who travelled with her as the one
and only bridesmaid, was also tailored in
white. She carried an armful of pink roses.
Bishop Crossley, of Auckland (he used to
be incumbent at a St. Kilda, Vie., church),
did the knotting in his private chapel at
Bishopscourt. Some Auckland friends, the
Kilronan Greys, lent their house for a cham-
pagne spread that brother Frank had pre-
pared, after which the honeymooners went
motoring down south.
Great excitement was generated by the
important vote-race for the Ballarat seat.
Mrs. Berry, who is talker-in-chief of the
Wimmen’s Fashionable League, is the near-
est approach to a martyr the Cause has to
show. On her face is a wound caused by a
stone which was hurled promiscuously dur-
ing a night meeting. On the damp Satur-
day, the women workers looked just like—
well, what does a drenched woman look
like? But they smiled through the falling
rain, and kept going for the supposed
good of the country. One woman in a fur
coat and hat bore a strong resemblance to
a Polar bear padding round after its prey.
Mrs. H. Y. McKay toiled all day with her
glassed-in motor, carrying the sick, lame and
halt to the poll. Hugh V.’s sister, who is
licensed to drive her own car, also tooted
round and scattered the mud. (This signing
business will be the death of me! Here
——-!: Amt Dow, The Bulletin Office, 369
Collins-street Melbourne.)
The Rubber Edwards couple, who departed
from Australia in the tall ship Niagara,
when last heard of were cutting across the
United States —or as many of them as got
in their way—towards New York, and a
double-berth cabin on the Imperator, the won-
derful new ship that weighs fifty billion
tons, and has three captains, and travels in
three different directions at once. When the
travellers have rushed through the U.S. and
England—(No, you never see them saunter-
ing !) —they will pull up or rebound at
Munich, where Mr. Rubber Edwards has a
sister who is occupied in a steady billet as
a countess. Nothing less will stop them. I
see quite plainly that a lot of people will get
trodden on if they don’t see the Edwards
couple in time. (P.S. —Did I mention that
they had something to do with rubber?)
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
The A.R.C. Birthday Meeting opened at Victoria
Park on Saturday in the teeth of a cold, bleak
breeze. The Bosanquet family wandered about the
cheerless lawn as though they were looking for a
fire. The A.R.C. is doing its best to improve the
course, and with good and sufficient cause. It is im-
possible to see the racing properly from any part of
the Stand. Mr. Mostyn Owen’s Wassail captured the
Parkside Stakes, and paid the cheering dividend of
£32 18s., which is the sort of dividend that Ichabod
Moses would rather die than hand out.
The staging of “Milestones” and “Man and Super-
man” has resulted in a boom in Bennett and G.B.S.
But all this hastily-acquired culture has a tendency
to wear thin in places. Many of our Very Nicest have
found it impossible to distinguish between Wilde and
Shaw—the recent performance of “Lady Windermere’s
Fan” being to blame. So much brilliancy has got
them mixed up, and there are rumors going round
that the old literary fare—“ East Lynne” and musical
comedy, and the like—was more restful, after all.
Vice-regality was there to give the Orpheus concert
a lift on Thursday. Miss Hilda Felstead and Miss
Martha sang likTthTw^uTX^
d A We n i! epaid With , loud cheers and flowers u’
E. A. Daltry, as conductor, had many head-Lm 1 ’
things said concerning him. u SWel «ng
Mrs. James Hall gave a dance for her .
daughter at the Norwood Town Hall on wld^j 6Bl
evening. " «inesrJay
Mrs. Robertson—she who was Miss Jean Stirling
has arrived from America, where she has been lh£l
since her marriage, and is staving with her
in North Adelaide. Her husband, who is also a
Australian, is with her. ‘ a
Mrs. Lance Dean gave a farewell “At Home” *
the Queen Adelaide Club last week. She tak« v at
life in her hands shortly, and departs for h«
home in the wilds—that is to say, she leaves for
station on the Murray, adjacent to Morgan ° r a
The King's Birthday Lev&e called forth‘about 20n
patriotic citizens on Tuesday. A cadet corns form«a
the guard of honor, and the whole splendid rite w?
over in something less than half an hour as
Mrs. Robertson, wife of the headmaster of
preparatory school at Prince Alfred’s College had
stroke Of bad luck the other day. She swaliowed «
generous draught of liniment in mistake for medi
cine. It is a change from the old conventionTt
swallowing false teeth, but unpleasant, not to J
perilous, withal. ■
Woodfield, the Joseph Fisher’s house at Fullarton
was put up for auction last week and knocked down’
to Mr. Wm. Charlick for about £2OOO. It is a C
old house —a relic of the days when building was an
art. But big houses are a drug on the market unless
they are stuffed with labor-saving devices. In these
Mary-Ann-less days, no housewife will tackle more
square feet of floor and passage than necessity
demands.
Mrs. Tom Barr Smith held an At Home at Birks-
gate, Glen Osmond, on Tuesday.
Mrs. Angas Johnson gave a tea for Miss Emma
Temple on Tuesday, at which Miss Klevesahl sang
and Mrs. Southcombe played.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.


DEWARS
44
Imperial”
\\V\
1
$
1
V
v
w\\ x
C$
X
\\
f v\
&
fv®
*l%.
-rZi / *»:
I
=ri
T
CTdrt' V
2/
!T
* t \
•A
3
A\
m.
*J\
y*A
Ik
N
r
i'wSi
rffe
„
>
Pi
si
<v,
j
&.V1
§
A:


THREE CHEERS!!
Haig 8 Haig Scots Whisky
(ESTABLISHED 1679.)
Franz Josef Lager Beer
Hackerbrau Dark Lager
PIXG FOR BREATH.
“Several times we nearly lost our son Bert with
croup, for he was choking- and gasping for breath,”
writes Mr. P. Balmer, draper, Launceston, Tas.,
“and I have had to get up in the night and go for
a bottle of Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy. After a
good dose of this wonderful remedy there would be a
marvellous difference in Bert, and I have never
known one bottle to fail to completely cure him.''*
WHAT DYSPEPTICS SHOULD EAT.
A PHYSICIAN’S ADVICE.
“Indigestion and practically all forms of
stomach trouble are. nine times out of ten.
due to acidity; therefore stomach sufferers
should, whenever possible, avoid eating food
that is acid in its nature, or which by chemi-
cal action in the stomach develops acidity
Unfortunately, such a rule eliminates most
foods which are pleasant to the taste as well
as those which are rich in blood, flesh and
nerve building properties. This is the reason
why dyspeptics and stomach sufferers are
usually so thin, emaciated and lacking in that
vital energy which can only come from a
well-fed body. For the benefit of those suf-
ferers who have been obliged to exclude from
their diet all starchy, sweet or fatty tooa>
and are trying to keep up a miserable exist-
ence on gluten products. I would suggest
that you should try a meal of any food o
foods which you may like in
amount, taking immediately afterwards hai
a teaspoonful of bisurated magnesia in
little hot or cold water. This will neutrali
any acid which may be present, or wnic
may be formed, and instead of the usual tee-
ing of uneasiness and fulness, you will «
that your food agrees with you perfect. •
Bisulated magnesia is doubtless the t»>
food corrective and antacid known, it
not a medicine, and has no direct action o
the stomach; but by neutralising the a i
ity of the food contents, and thus r *? a ® vl . ’'
the source of the acid irritation which
flames the delicate stomach lining, it an »
more than could possibly be done by a.
drug or medicine. As a physician I Mi
in the use of medicine whenever necess; y<
but I must admit that I cannot see
sense of dosing an inflamed and irrita
stomach with drugs instead of getting rlfl
the acid—the cause of all the trouble. 1
a little bisurated magnesia from - c
chemist, eat what you want at your
meal, take some of the bisurated ma- V*
as directed above, and see if I m not r.g- •
POLITICAL
POINTS
WHY NOT?
Last week there appeared the usual report of the
successful home-coming of two loan-ambassadors
(from Maoriland and Australia) to their respective
countries.
What about inducing Uncle out here fior a
change? It would mean a great saving in
official travelling expenses. And Mo could
arrange a profitable finale to his venture.”
The Liberal party lost a most promising
young man when D. J. Gordon was shot
out of the Bootliby (S.A.) seat. For many
years Gordon was the Register’s crack
descriptive writer. Then he flashed out as
an effective speaker, and was lifted into the
late-lamented Batchelor’s suburban seat
with a whoop. But it was essentially a
Labor district, and Gordon’s personality
wasn’t able to outweigh that. So the man
whose level head and exceptional knowledge
of the country' marked him out for office
before long had to make room for the local
butcher —and a very useful butcher, too, by
the way 7, with a satisfactory record of ser-
vice in both municipal and State politics.
[S. H. Prior, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
If a Cook Government comes to pass, as
a result of the Federal election, the absolute
necessity for giving Bruce Smith a portfolio
will loom up like the tower of Babel. The
Cook majority will be ver.v small at the best,
and the imperishable absenteeism of B.
Smith is calculated to make it no majority
at all. Therefore, B. Smith should be
anchored, or nailed, or clamped down to the
front bench by a portfolio. He isn’t wholly 7
unaccustomed to the article, for he held two
of it under Parkes in the N.S.W. State
Legislature, and not even his best enemy 7 can
say that he didn’t hold it honorably and
respectably. As a party man the incurable
defect about the aforesaid Smith is his failure
to turn up.
[James Edmond, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
Up on the North Coast (N.S.W.) they
are discussing the ethics of the boycott, a
baker in a sizeable town of those cow parts
having been discovered to be a Labor sup-
porter. The crime might be forgiven in a
workman, but in a master it called for
nothing less than the Cow King’s refusal to
touch the disloyal monster’s bread. This, of
course, is freedom. Dough demands the
right to think as he pleases ; Cow demands
the right to trade where he pleases. But
what appalling tyranny it would be if the
Labor-voting working men of Sydney decided
that they would punish the Cow King for
voting as he pleased by deciding to buy no
more North Coast butter!
[Thos. M. Thick, High-street, Taree.]
The S. M. . Herald (5/G/’l3), urging
Maoriland to join Australia in the defence
of the Pacific :
It is, of course, certain that if efficiency is to be
aimed at, some system of co-operation for the fleets
in the Pacific will have to be worked out. It is not
a new problem ; as was pointed out in a recent num-
ber of the Round Table, an almost identical situa-
tion had to be met by the ancient Athenians at the
time of their wars against Persia, and the solution,
which took the shape of the famous Confederacy
of Delos, only failed when the system of “local
navies” in co-operation was abandoned for a system
of “contribution.”
That is the worst of deferring one’s reading
until old age. Had the Herald heard of
the Confederacy of Delos in its youth, it
might have seen the advantage of “local
navies” a couple of years back, instead of
barracking for the Dreadnought-Contribu-
tion” foolishness, and applauding Cook when
he was pouring scorn on an Australian
“mosquito” fleet.
[P. T. Freeman, 22 Cleveland-street, Darlington.
N.S.W.]
If John Weary is not too
tired, the Government of
which he is the temporary
head will next session intro-
duce a very desirable Local
Government Amending Bill
to re-arrange boundaries,
and thus largely reduce the
number of municipalities, so
that tinpot shires with £l6OO
of_ revenue won’t spend
£1550 on secretary, rate col-
lector, engineer, dog inspec-
tor, mayor’s cupboard and
other frill, the odd £5O going
on roads and bridges. A
second measure, full brother
to the first, w 7 ill hand to
half a dozen paid medical
officers the supervision of
health matters over the
whole State. If the typhoid
germ and the consumption
microbe would stay within
their own municipal or shire
boundaries, the matter of
public health might be left
to the local Dogbumble-
berries; but the little
wretches wander all over the
State, without caring a single
chest of drawers whether
they are in Dunmunkle or
Karkarooc, and the only
party who can pursue them
with any hope of success is
the State.
One of the tragedies of the election was
the utter annihilation of Josiah Symon in
S. Ans. He was the ablest man in the
Senate, yet because he despised the Fusion
and its methods, and refused to swallow
the opinions he had expressed when the
Liberal party was barracking for the very
things it subsequently pilloried, he was
dropped, and three “Liberals” were run
against him —in addition, of course, to the
three Laborites. And the party-government
THE SUPPRESSED GENIUS.
PORTLY GENT : “ Can you find out for me why
there are no leading at tides on the political
situation? ”
COUNTER BOY: “ Well, they gotter be signed
now, yer know.”
P.G. (testily): “Well, what does that matter?”
C. B. (confidentially): “ Oh, well, yer see, they
don't want people ter know it’s me wot
writes ’em.”
machine not merely squeezed him out, but
flattened him: a mere handful of votes were
flung to him, less than one-fifth of the
number polled by the poorest hack of the
party machines. So Australia loses not
only one of the greatest Constitutional law-
yers in the Commonwealth but also one of
its most massive intellects, and it gets three
“decent fellows” —(1) a man who, until
lately, made up the bunks in the Broken
Hill express, and was defeated for the local
Assembly; (2) a highly respectable
Methodist preacher, who left that job and
went fruit-growing, and was also defeated
for the local Assembly; (3) a journalist in
a small way—he used to edit the little sec-
tarian Southern Cross in Adelaide —who
was also defeated for the local Assembly.
In S. Aus., in fact, the Senate seems to be
regarded as a sort of Consolation Stakes.
All six of the “selected” candidates have
been poured out of their Assembly seats
within the last year or two, and, being good
party hacks, have had the blow softened by
being given a free nomination for the next
run.
[S. H. Prior, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
BUSINESS IN SIGHT.
REBECCA: “ Vot's der matter, Ikey? Haf you
goot news?"
JOHN BULL COHEN: “I should say so. [?]y,
der N.S.W. Labor Government have to
find £2,730,000 for der Norl’ Shore
Bridge.”
The iron and coal town of Lithgow
(N.S.W.) has arisen and said things about
the proposal to establish Government pipe-
making works-at Newcastle instead of at
the inland town. In this matter no one
supposes that Lithgow takes a larger Aus-
tralian view than the average, but by acci-
dent, while clamoring over its own" local
interests, it has struck a great truth. The
craving to establish all Government works
iron-works, engine building and repairing
shops, arms and ammunition factories, and
everything else the loss of which will be
disaster to us while the winning of it will
be a godsend to an enemy—right on the ill-
defended coast is a disease in this country.
M oman is a charm-
ing institution in SO m e
walks of life, but, ac-
cording to the average
poll clerk, she i s a
fraud as a voter, and a
weariness of the flesh.
Many of the skirted
sisterhood pervaded
the booth for about an
hour, fmdmg out what
sub-division they were
in, got their papers,
occupied a recess half
an hour filling i n the
documents, and then
took them away to get
someone to see if thev
were properly fi xwl
up. Later on thev
came back and wanted
to illegally deposit the
literature in the ballot-
box. Others filled in
the papers and left
them on the desk. pre-
suming apparently
that someone would
come round and gather
them up. These, prob-
ably, were Liberal la-
dies, accustomed to be
waited on by butlers
and other Jeameses
and Thomases. Ladies
who had taken away
their ballot papers,
and discovered that
they had marked them
wrongly, worried the
officers to issue them
fresh ones, and threat-
ened to report them
when the harassed
officials tried to ex-
plain that such a
thing was impossible.
What worried the
woman voter was that
there was nothing in the papers to
explain which was the Liberal or the
Labor man, or the Socialist, or -the
Independent. They got mixed and appealed
to perfect strangers for enlightenment. One
base impostor, finding himself bailed up by
14 wild women of N.S.W. who wanted to
know the names of the Liberal three, said
they were Batho, Gould and Grant. He was
half inclined to say they were St. Paul, Go-
liath and Gehenna, but he thought that sort
of thing might be pulling the feminine leg
too hard.
According to a recent cablegram:—
A second Note has been despatched by Japan to
Washington requesting the good offices of the Fed-
eral Government to prevent a rupture of relationt.
After all, it might be cheaper to buy a truss.
The defeat of Mahon, the Iceberg of the
Labor party, for the new electorate of
Dampier, in Groperland, did not surprise
most Westralians. Mahon is one of those
freaks, a Freetrade Laborite, and the con-
tradictory combination is not popular in
Westralia. Mahon, moreover, rubbed his
freakishness in by declaring that any state-
ments Fisher might make at Maryborough
in regard to increased Protection did not
touch him. So he went on platitudinising
on the brink of the grave of Freetrade. and
the Protectionists of Groperland, reckoning
that he was no Laborite, voted mainly on
personal grounds, and thus helned the
popular Gregory to push the disappointing
freak over the edge.
[Walt. J. Sxaddex, 113 Phillip-street, Sydney.]
The only man who can equal Joseph Cook
as a ’bus-loser is James McGowen. and some-
times Cook gets ahead. The latter gentle-
man dared not promise to repeal Fishers
policy ; in fact, he promised to maintain it
so far as it has gone. At the same time
he disapproved of it —not violently but
grumpily—and declined to carry it on any
further. And he didn't propound any big
constructive programme of his own. In-
stead of being an armed and progressive
force he was a stationary bottle or vinegar.
A great, hairy hurricane like Parkes would
rather have promised to build a bridge from
Sydney to Port Darwin and to sell the £1
note for 10s. than occupy such a dreary
and uninteresting position.
[James Edmond, The Bulletin Office. Sydney.]
THE SIX REASONS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A deputation from the Australian Women's Associa-
tion waited upon the Acting-Premier of Victoria to
urge, amongst other matters, “that hotels, wine
saloons, clubs and all liquor-selling places should be
closed at the same hours as were observed by ordinary
trades.”
Shut the pub at six o'clock
With the other shops.
Thither thriftless workers flock
Seeking malt and hops.
There the husband and the son
Stand around and mix
Liquors which they ought to shun,
Drink for fellowship, or fun,
Till the dinner’s overdone.
Shut the pub at six.
Weary wives and mothers wait
For the absentees,
Keeping hot the empty plate
Ready for their teas,
Whilst the wasters stay away
Talking politics,
Hastening their life’s decay,
Turning silken tresses gray.
“Dock and doris,” “hip, hooray!”
Shut the pub at six.
Pub or club, it matters not,
There the money goes
(“Why a man must he a sot
Goodness only knows!”)
Missus needs a winter gown,
Hubby gives her nix ;
Greets her with a sullen frown,
On her wrath the sun goes down
Ere he wobbles home from town.
Shut the pub at six.
Close the pub at six o’clock,
Like the grocer’s store ;
Then the wife will get her frock,
Gladness reign once more.
Sister will be laughing low,
Full of sportive tricks;
Mother will forget her woe,
Wife will bustle to and fro —-
Hurry off to picture-show.
Shut the pub at six.
Many truths are said in jest,
So the proverb states.
Many women, sore distress’t,
Warm the dinner plates.
Many men for lack of pence
Oft are in a fix ;
Poverty and turbulence
Come of making Thirst intense.
In our womenkind’s defence,
Shut the pub at six.
VIC" - 'RIA.
O.K.


The longer each Running Part
of an Automobile lasts the lower
is the Maintenance Expense.
lf the moving parts last for 50,000
miles they are eliminated from the
expense account for that length of
time.
fllf they last 25,000, not only bear-
ings, but the labor of replacing them,
must be paid for twice as often.
flThe economical car is the one
whose various moving parts are
lubricated by Gargoyle Mobiloils.
The most costly oils to produce, yet
the cheapest per year.
Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd.
n
The ONLY
Patent Leather
with a Guarantee
WE WILL REPLACE any pair
of these Burrojap Boots, if the
vamp break through before the
first sole is worn out.
A Truly Striking Innovation,
unique in the history of the
trade.
No risk —no disappointment. Just
perfect satisfaction —guaranteed.
BURROJAPS
per 32/6 pAlß -
(Postage 1/- Extra.)
Patent Burrojap vamp and
golosh. Dull-kid leg. Derby
fronts, straight toe-cap. The
new “ recede ” toe ensures
perfect ease and particularly
smart appearance. The Non-
slip Heel is a most useful
safeguard.
The Guarantee is Printed on Each Box.
Mail Order Department,
14 and 16 Russell Street,
MELBOURNE.
BOOKS for CARPENTERS
These Books are all up-to-date Manuals, written by Practical Men,
who know how to state difficult matters in simple language.
Country Builders will find them most useful as Reference Books. Let
us help you to get the book you need.
DOUBLE POSTAGE RATES TO NEW ZEALAND.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.
476 George Street
(OPPOSITE QUEEN
VICTORIA MARKETS),
Sydney.
P4THES Hone Cinematograph
((
Bmss Me wor/</
//>foyoi/r </rdM/)sroom ”
%
Booklet and
Full
Particulars
of Machine
and Picture
Films are
sent free.
Use Coupon
Below.
No matter where your drawing-room is—in the centre of a city, in the suburbs,
or right away out in the country, the Pathe Home Cinematograph can be used with
equal advantage—because it
MAKES ITS OWN LIGHT
and is independent of any other light—oil, gas or electricity. This point is one that
the public should remember. The production of the light is one of the features of the
Pathd Home Cinematograph, which is found in no other cinematograph, but which
is absolutely essential to success in Home Cinematography.
Another important feature is that the
PICTURE FILMS ARE NON-INFLAMMABLE.
They will not burn in any circumstances. This fact, in conjunction with the safe
method of light production, eliminates entirely any danger from fire —a fact recog-
nised by all the fire insurance companies of Victoria, who make no extra charge if a
Pathd Home Cinematograph is in the house.
Consider these points carefully. The closer you examine the Pathe Home
Cinematograph and its advantages, the more you will appreciate its utility, its
strength, its educative influence, its success as a home entertainer, and its absolute
safety.
Write for Booklet telling you more about this delightful Home Entertainer.
Send this coupon to us or any of our agents.
PATHE FRERES,
27 Alliance Buildings,
48 Queen Street, Melbourne.
HOME CINEMATOGRAPH & AGENCIES PTY.
LTD., 48 Queen Street, Melbourne;
BIRCH & CARROLL, Edward Street, Bris-
bane; S. SPURLINC & SON, 93 Brisbane
Street, Launceston; OPTICAL & PHOTO
SUPPLIES CO., 672 Hay Street, Perth;
orC. W. FRASER & CO., 139 York Street,
Sydney; HARRINCTONS(N.Z.) LTD.,42 Willis
Street, Wellington, N.Z.; HARRINGTONS
(N.Z.) LTD., Queen Street, Auckland, N Z. ;
W. PARK, Stationer, Palmerston North,
N.Z. ; C. R. FOREMAN & CO., Napier, N.Z. ;
WILKINS & FIELD HARDWARE CO. LTD.,
Nelson, New Zealand.
CUT OUT AND POST TO=DAY.
Please send me particulars of Pat ftps
Home Cinematograph.
Name
Address
27.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Absolutely Pure.
No Preservatives.
E. RESCJES LIMITED , Brewer by Appoint-
ment to his Excellency the Governor-General.
Brewery and Offices: Dowling Street, Redfern, Sydney
West Australian Agents RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
KIDNEY DISEASE
and all allied complaints have their prompt and
effectual remedy in Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills, which
act in a wonderfullv speedy manner. Give them a
trial. Price, Is. 6d! and 2s. 6d. Obtainable every-
where.*
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wr Supply—
J ARRAU Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks. Builders’ Scant-
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS' HALL, LONDON, E.C. *
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68$ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
DISLOCATED SHOULDER.
UNABLE TO USE RIGHT ARM FOR
SIX MONTHS. COMSTOCK’S NERVE
AND BONE LINIMENT AFFORDS
WONDERFUL RELIEF.
“As I always believe in giving credit
where credit is due,” writer Mrs* E. Maker,
of “Nil Desperandum,” Dartbrook Road.
Auburn, “I am sending this statement in
praise of Comstock’s Nerve and Bone Lini-
ment. Just 12 months ago I dislocated my
shoulder and for about six months suffered;
continually, being unable to do any work that
necessitated the use of my right arm. I was
treated by a doctor, and also tried various
liniments recommended by different chem-
ists, but all to no purpose, the severe pains
still continuing. After being in this state
for about six months I one day read an
advertisement containing some testimonials
from people who had benefited by the use of
this remedy, and so decided to test it my-
self. After trying the first bottle I felt muon
relief. I am now using my fourth bottle,
and find I can use my shoulder with con-
siderably more ease, and intend continuing
to treat myself with Comstock’s Nerve and
Bone Liniment, as I know of nothing to
equal it. I am only too pleased to allow
you to use this for advertising purposes,
and would confirm same to anyone calling
on me.” , ,
This liniment is sold by all leading on e ®'
ists and storekeepers, price 2/6: or wlll
forwarded by post at same price bv tne
W. H. Comstock Co. Ltd., 23 Lang btreet.
Church Hill, Sydney.* _
Tailor-Made
Costumes
FOR WINTER.
Our Stock of
materials is
very compre-
hensive : and
our T weeds
and Costume
Cloths are in
exclusive de-
signs. We in-
vite a visit of
inspection.
Our Cutter is Mr.
F. J. Murphy.
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
Tailors & Costcmers,
76 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY.
$
SPORTING
NOTIOS
About 20,000 hardened battlers braved
the breeze on Saturday, at Randwick, when the
A.J.C. Winter meeting started on its dreary course.
Of the 26 in the book for the Hurdles, only 14 started.
The public made the Victorian jumper Powerful
favorite at three to one. It put five to one on Gumin,
and six to one on Dyor. The favorite made a bad
start, and never recovered it, passing the winning
post seventh in the procession. Only one accident
marred the contest, Avoca tumbling at the second-last
jump, but, as the jockey promptly remounted, it was
evident there was nothing serious to worry about.
Dyor and Briarberry cleared the last jump together,
and then the former forged ahead and won by two
lengths. The plum of the afternoon was the June Stakes,
a £6 handicap sweepstakes with £3OO added loot.
Thirteen started, and the public wealth was appar-
ently on Relievo, at seven to two against, Sweet Malt
at nine to two against, and St. Medoc at sixes. The
field split into two divisions, with Hot Air, Sweet
Malt, Happy Lady and Relievo making the pace for
the first. Entering the straight Hot Air dashed away
and seemed to have the race practically won, when
St. Medoc suddenly appeared, and flew over the
ground, followed by Cool Air, which cut Hot Air
out of the second place. St. Medoc won by two
lengths.
* * * *
In spite of the horrible weather Monday
saw another 15,000 people at Randwick, to witness
the conclusion of the Winter meeting. The course
was heavy as lead, and form, of course, went to
blazes, according to the punters. On the other hand,
the closeness of the finishes suggested that it didn’t,
and that the handicapping, which is always done on
form, was mighty close indeed. The plum of the
day was the Winter Stakes, a £5OO affair, which
cost £lO to start in. Of the 24 in the book only
nine reached the course. Zens was favorite at seven
to two against, and Alured and Sir Vive both carried
some money at fours and five. The Maoriland horse
Electrakoff started at sevens. On arrival at the
straight the Maoriland nag put in an unobtrusive
appearance, lingered with his field for a moment,
and then, suddenly putting his ears back, bolted at
such a rate that the rest seemed to be standing still.
He might have won by any distance there was to
spare, but was content with about three lengths
from Alured, who downed Offa by the same distance.
Why, is not apparent, but the return of Electrakoff
to the weighing enclosure saw about the most hostile
demonstration ever recorded at Randwick: hoots,
veils, epithets and boo-hoos sounding from all parts
of the wind-swept wilderness. It was terrific. When
the aged Hautapu, after winning the Second Steeple,
returned to the same enclosure, after starting at
threes as second favorite, there was another demon-
stration, but of a very different nature. The ancient
steed was cheered madly, wildly, apparently by those
who had not, as well as those who had, backed him.
The favorite in that case had been Koronite, at 10
to nine, and he had finished third, 20 lengths behind
Acute Angle, the second.
* * * *
The occasionally brilliant Broadsword won
the Adelaide Racing Club’s Birthday Cup last Satur-
dav, although the 12-furlong course was as a longer
distance than he cares to travel in the ordinary way.
With a top weight on his back, Broadsword could
have been confidently expected to fail at the finish,
but the easy burden of Bst. 51b. was as good as stay-
ing power to the big horse when a little ’un like
Mountain Princess was carrying 9st. 51b., and others
of inferior class were giving him a few pounds. The
difference between Tote dividends and bookmakers’
odds got another showing un in this case. The Tote
paid a div. of £39 —or 38 to I—over the winner.
Broadsword, as a Victorian trained steed or nag. had
backers who invested their little bit with Vic. books
who lay “Tote prices.’’ But Ikey Mo’s version of
Tote price has a 20 to 1 limit. So 38 to 1 on the
Adelaide course meant 18 points less in Melbourne
or Svdnev.
* * * *
Inter-State entries for the Melbourne Cup
are this year a trifle more numerous than the Vic-
torian entries. For the Caulfield Cup they are a
trifle less numerous. For the big jumping races in
Julv and August the fields are not likely to be up
to the average. Only 39 are nominated for the Grand
National Steeplechase. #
Exit, suddenly, but unostentatiously, in
Adelaide, the racer Moe (Wallace —Moama). She was
a winner of the V.R.C. Oaks and the S.A. St.
Leger, and was fancied for the recent Adelaide Cup.
Training at Morphettville for the Birthday meeting,
she had just done a fast lap when she simply lay
down and perished. Her soul is now cantering among
the fields of Asphodel.
* * * *
The opening match between the Maoriland
team and the Sydney Leaguers was a disappointing
spectacle. The Maorilanders were deficient in com-
bination, and the N.S.W. team seemed at times to
suffer from paralvsis. There were flashes of splendid
plav, that dazzled for the moment and then faded
right out and dropped the tapestry of gloom behind
them. The kicking on both sides was deplorable, and
altogether the game was far from up to the standard
of crack club matches. It was the opening event,
and each side was nervous and somewhat scared as
to the unknown quantity it was up against. The idea
is borne out by the fact that any improvement of
play on one side was immediately followed up by a
similar improvement on the other. What advantage
there was rested witih N.S.W., and Maoriland fought
the uphill battle most of the way. N.S.W. drew
first blood with an unconverted try, and later on re-
pcatinar the dose, led by six to nT. Then Maoriland
kicked a penaltv goal, and Shadbolt. Maoriland for-
ward, made the run of the day and scored a brilliant try,
with a Cornstalk hanging on to his legs. As it was
unconverted, the score was Ma six, M.L five points.
Another penaltv goal lifted Maoriland to seven, and
then disaster came like a whirlwind, N.S.W. scoring
two tries, one of which was converted. Score: 14
points to seven, at half-time. The second half ex-
citement began with Maoriland putting on eight
points and getting once more in the lead with one.
This was wiped out and overtopped by a try, upon
which N.S.W. won the day, by 17 points to 15.
« * * ♦
Saturday was far from a cheerful day. and
Snndav saw‘rain, hail and flying slush in the streets
of the place that used to be known as “sun-baked
Svdnev.” Monday was no better, excepting that there
was not quite so much hail and the wind was not
violent. But it was wet. horrible, and anything
but the sort of day to allure a crowd to the Sydney
Cricket Ground, where the League teams of Maori-
land and N.S.W. were to meet again. This time the
Ma State force was lead by the formidable “Dally
Messenger, and the presence of the famous bailer
seemed to have the effect of turning his men into
veritable lions. It was supposed to be a day after
the Maoriland footballer's own heart: but the chil-
dren of the Sun took the mud to heart as if it was
a long-lost brother. From start to half-time the
Cornstalk team raged and romped over the struggling
Maorilanders, and at the interval had scored 16
points to Maoriland’s nil. With the resumption came
Maoriland’s rally. The visiting team had the benefit
of the bitter wind, and it let loose in a series of short,
quick dribbling passes which resulted, first, in a
penaltv goal, then a converted try, a try and a pen-
alty, and lifted the figures to 12 against 16 points;
ana 24,000 people stood up and cheered madly.
That cheer roused N.S.W. Maoriland had seen the
last score it was to make that day, and for the rest,
in the biting wind, the half-frozen slush and the
failing light, the wandering Islanders stood up to
mad charges by leaping, prancing Australians, and
were bowled over like ninepins till the score against
them bounded up to 31—31 to 12. It was plain
annihilation. _
* * * *
Monday in Sydney was Maoriland's evil
day, for while Messenger and his Leaguers were
stamping the fern and the kiwi flat at Sydney
Cricket Ground the Rugby Union was doing the same
kind office for the Maori team at University Oval.
Conditions were far from pleasant at the Cricket
Ground, but at the University Oval they were bleak
indeed, and the shivering Maoris longed vainly for
the more temperate blizzards of Wellington or Inver-
cargill. A faint burst of sunshine mocked them as
thev filed on to the mud-field. N.S.W. attacked at
the’ start, but found a stern opponent in little Fiki,
the half-back, who seemed to be everywhere and
always delivering some serviceable kicks, some-
times to centre, sometimes to the line. But a ter-
rific charge of blues swept through the defence and
rolled the last fragment of the Maoris back over their
own line. Then just as someone was going to touch
down, the ball was snapped from his hands by a
Maori who forced, and so saved the situation. The
5000 people who had braved the hideous afternoon
brayed applause. From line out the Blues came
away with beautiful charges, which the slippery
nature of the ground hampered muchly. In at-
tempting to stop one of these combined rushes gal-
lant little Piki broke his leg. After he was removed
the kick for goal failed, and the home team had to
be content with three to nil. The advantage of
weight was with the Maoris and they began to use
it; but on the other side, their handling was very
faulty and they lost possession over and over again
at critical moments. The way the N.S.W. back
machine worked was marvellous. The passing charges
were just about perfect in spite of the bog and the
deluge and the ruins. The Maori defence was very
stern, and charge after charge was pulled down, only
to be resumed again in a few seconds. It was a
good game to watch. That succession of passing
charges could end only one way; and it did. At
half-time N.S.W. led by six to nil. The second half
found the Maoris with the wind behind them, and
Paki, who had taken Piki’s place, did wonders with
his line kicking. The wind grew stronger and the
brown men’s hopes rose. But it is the doom of the
Maoris like that of the giants of the fairy tales, to
lose strength as the sun sinks. In other words, they
are never so good in the second spell as in the first,
being softer in the fibre than the Pakeha. The
dried shark crowd had done its dash in the long,
uphill struggle of the first half against the wind.
Now the Pakeha was growing stronger as the
minutes sped. His formation was growing more perfect,
and those sustained charges were exhausting. Once
the Maori got a chance, and dashing through, scored
an unconverted try 7; but for the three he made the
Pakeha made nine. The whistle blew just as the
Cornstalk team burst through for the last time, and
the game ended with N.S.W. on top by 15 to three.
WHOOSH!
A Aickery impression of how Stagg puzzled
Picato at the Sydney Stadium.
The Soccer football crowd (Sydney)
carried out three matches in the Rawson Cup Com-
petition, and one in the struggle for the Gardiner
Cup. In the latter Northern Suburbs downed Helens-
burg by one to nil. The exciting match of the day,
however, was that between Annandale, the newly-
formed club, and Balmain, the State Champion team,
in the Rawson Cup Competitions. The letter was
playing without a pair of its best men, and almost
immediately after starting it lost the services of
another through injury. The Annandale forwards
charged right through the black and gold team and
pressed hard. Balmain relieved again and again, but
Annandale always came back, grimly and hungrily,
and, just before'half-time, scored. After the interval
Balmain made splendid rallies, but Annandale was too
tough and followed up every repulse with a counter
attack. But it was mere see-saw, and no further
score came to either side, and the champion team
went home defeated by one. For the rest, Granville
smashed up Glebe by two goals to one, and Sydney
overthrew Newtown by one to nil.
* * * *
The Football League in Adelaide has got
busv, and is teaching the players to be Perfect
Gentlemen. It carpeted four Sturt players for a start,
on the umpire’s complaint, for either abusing him or
questioning h : s decisions, or both. Two were given
the benefit of the doubt, one was told to apologise,
and the worst offender had to stand down for one
match. Mildness could hardly go further; but it is
understood that a dog will be let loose after the
next? offender.
* * * *
There were several notable hoofball dis-
turbances in Melbourne on Saturday. The brightest
was between ’Roy and South on the latter s ground,
where, often before, defeat has meant the uprising
of the barrackers, with hands full of stoush and
stones and clods. South “went down on Saturday.
but the walloping was so pronounced that the para-
lysed barrackers forgot even to hoot the umpire. The
big red-and-white men, surprisingly fast, had the
better of the first half, scoring 34 points to ’Roy s
19 ; but thereafter the Maroons improved their mark-
ing’ and kicking by adding some semblance of a sys-
T>„v,r.;no- r>]p»n awav. thev finished with 83
points to 50. Richmond, fighting for its life against
Carlton led until the last few minutes; but Carl-
ton's final rush gave it a goal and a behind or two-
-67 noints to 61 With this sixth defeat, Richmond
l 6 ost P all interest in the competition. The undefeated
’Wood had little difficulty in jumping onthe Samts
hv 80 Doints to 54. Essendon consoled itself tor
many defeats by pulverising the
to 41; and Geelong came up to the Metropolitan
Cricket Ground, and wiped out the M.C.C. s pet
footballers —84 points to 52. # *
The most infuriated Ass. collision resulted
in the rout of P’ran by North, the shopkeeping
suburb’s first thrashing this season. The fleeing rem-
nants of the P’ran army are still busy vanishing over
the horizon. Though on their own ground the
P’rannies were obsessed by the tremendousness of the
occasion, or something, and, playing feebly at the
start, fell further behind as the game went on. They
finished with 51 points to North s 84. The bleaK
Brighton ground is getting a reputation f°r engender-
ing weak heart, cold feet, droppage of the bundle
and similar complaints. The previous Saturday
Melb. City “chucked in its alley at half-time, and
last Saturday the premier Ass team, Don, only
escaped defeat by one point—s 3 to Brighton s s_.
Williamstown surprised itself by arising and smiting
Port hip and brisket—97 to 81. Brunswick, with an
eve to those “points scored for and against that
often decide a team’s position when the semi-finals
come to be fought, erected a mountain of lOOagainst
Northcote’s 60 ; also, Scrav acquired 109 to Melb
City’s 38. But the latter s ’ball is of the sort which
has lost the charm of novelty, and should be sup-
pressed. „ *
* * * ,
At Castlemaine (Vic.) the practice or
carrving a passenger in the luggage rest of a motor-
bike probably helped towards bringing about a
rather ghastlv accident. The motor-bike met a
linker containing three young men, and the motorist
collided with the shaft, which went right through
him, passing out at his back. Death was instantane-
ous. Curiously enough, the lad who was riding behind
the motorist escaoed uninjured.
* * *
Adelaide Police Court has decided that
motor-cars need not take any notice of the by-law
forbidding them to go round certain city corners at
more than “walking pace.” The law was meant for
horse vehicles, said the S.M., and a car that cannot
walk cannot keep such a rule —or break it. it
seems a doubtful decision, walking-pace being a
well understood term for anything up to about four
miles an hour; but it is much quicker and cheaper
to alter the by-law than to appeal,, so sensible is.
Aus. proposes to take the quicksand cheap way.
According to some English motorist
writers we are on the eve of a period of freak and
gigantic motor-cars. The gold bugs who have been
bitten bv the craze are howling for something new—
for travelling palaces in which there will be state-
rooms, bath-rooms, promenades, sleeping berths
vast constructions which will be veritable land ships.
How the people responsible for the maintenance of
the roads will view this new vagary of the unduly
rich will be interesting to see.
* * *
The Yankee crowds that went down to
Indianapolis (U.S.A.) to see a record smash in the
great 500 Miles Track Motor Race, left disap-
pointed. The world’s crack drivers ran through the
distance without turning a hair or scratching a
finger, and Jules Goux, he who, about three weeks
before, had put up over 106 miles an hour on the
Brooklands Track, annexed the first prize (£4000)
in 6hr. 32min., including all stops, an average speed
of 764 miles an hour. Who got the second prize
the cable did not say, but the man who won the
third was Charles Merz. who finished the last lap
with his car in flames. Englishman Lambert and his
mightv Talbot were apparently unplaced; and
Guvot, who steered the English Sunbeam car, had
no'better luck. The only people injured were two
spectators, who managed to get on the track some-
how despite the most elaborate precautions.
The annual Picton to Ashfield (N.S.W.)
road cvcle race, promoted by the Redfern Club under
the auspices of the Cyclist Union, drew 213 entrants.
The distance is usually 46 miles, but this time it
was 49. owing to the course being altered by reason
of slush, bog, quicksand, quagmire and Slough of
Despond. Only 60 faced the starter, and the rain
came down in sheets while they were being dis-
patched. As for the race itself, it was a watt over.
A nuggetv youth of about 19, named G. Gordon,
and belonging to the Kegworth Club, who had
18min. 20sec. handicap, not only won the race but
secured the fastest time. He beat the second man,
Stratton, who had 12min. 40sec., by over 10 nun-
utes, and walloped the time of the fastest scratch
man’. The roads were like a drowned body, and of
the 60 who started onlv 29 had come to light a,t
5.20 p.m. Then the timekeepers were washed from,
their moorings at Ashfield, and their remains
still floating about.
The Inter-University Boat Race at Mel-
bourne on Saturday was waged between crews from
Melbourne, Adelaide and Sydney. Sidney went to
the front at the iump, followed closely by Adelaide,
with Melbourne chasing them both. But the Mel-
bourne stroke was the more powerful, and the Mel-
bourne leg work more plentiful, and after three-
quarters of a mile had been traversed, it had pre-
vailed so that Melbourne was leading Sydney by two
lengths, with Adelaide another two lengths in the
rear. Right on Melbourne continued to increase its
advantage, while Adelaide reduced the gap between it
and Svdnev. At the finish Melbourne won by six
lengths, and Sydney, with a spurt, managed to get
once more a coupie of lengths ahead of the rival
Crow-eater.
* * *
Lacrosse worried through its sixth round
in the Svdnev Competition on Saturday, Sydney
and Mosnian putting up the star struggle of the
afternoon. The city bloques managed to down the
aristocrats bv four goals to three. Still, it must
be counted to the toffs that for the bulk of the
match thev were a man short; one of their star
plavers named Webb having been outed early in the
disturbance. Eastern Suburbs pushed Petersham face
downward in the mud and walloped it by 11 goals
to five, and Birchgrove slew ’Varsity by seven goals
to one. Svdnev and Eastern Suburbs are still un-
beaten. Petersham and Birchgrove have each sus-
tained two defeats. The rest are still lost in the
slush, looking for the wooden spoon.
* * * *
On Sunday last a 14ft. boat was capsized
in Svdnev Harbor (N.S.W.) close to Clifton
Gardens. Someone who saw the accident raced along
the beach and gave the alarm to a couple of men in
a motor-boat; but they declined to go to the rescue.
The man ran on. and finding two human beings,
thev grabbed a skiff that was Iving h>h and dry.
ran it into the water, and, after pulling about a
mile or so, got to the wreck just in time, the two
boys and the man who had been clinging to the
overturned boat being at the last gasp; This paner
regrets that it cannot give the names of the two
gentlemen in the motor-craft, so that the public
might honor them as they deserve; and can only
hope that the next time they go out they may be
run down by the Glebe Island refuse boat, and that
before they can be fished out they are fished in by
the sharks which always follow the stench of the
refuse institution.
N.S.W. Amateur Athletic Association is
earlv in dangling the plums before the legs of such
as rejoice in this particular form of vanity. The
10-Mile Championship is set down for August 23 on
Victoria Park Racecourse (Sydney), while the
Cross Country Five Miles will be plugged over the
Steeplechase Course at Randwick on September 6
Both of these events are expected to attract a swami
of competitors from States.^
Maoriland long-distance swimmer A.
Hoey is again off on the wild effort to swim the
English Channel. Last year bad weather prevented
Hoey wasting his good solid flesh in this vain enter-
prise. This year he proposes to try to splash across
in company with Jabez Woolfe on August 24. Later
on the same pair will tempt Providence by trying
to swim the whirlpools below Niagara Falls, where
Captain Webb was drowned for his lunacy. But
perhaps the friends and relatives of Hoey and
Woolfe will interview some doctors and a magis-
trate beforehand, and get the necessary certificate—
as the current expression goes, get the competitors
“signed up.”
Jack Johnson struggled through his first
20 rounds with the Law on the White Slave charges
recently, and lost on points. The referee said he
had lost by 12 months jug and 1000 dollars. John-
son has appealed. The danger of appealing in the
United States is that if the conviction is upheld the
penalty is generally increased. Which is beastly
awkward.
The latest importation by the Baker
Stadium (Sydney) is Waldemar Holberg, the Danish
middleweight champion. He has had about 34 fights
and scored 25 wins by the knock-out method. Any-
body more unLke a professional fighter than Holberg
it is almost impossible to imagine. He suggests a
doctor or a lawyer, or something equally tame. Most
of the Baker miportations, though, are like that.
They are mostly fairly well-educated men, all well-
mannered, and many of them absolutely refined.
Boxing has passed out of the “degrading” stage and
become a high-class and lucrative profession, not to
say an art.
* * * *
The fight between Sid Stagg. of London,
and Picato, of the U.S., at Sydney Stadium, on Sat-
urday night last, was mainly a matter of statis-
tics. Stagg hit Picato on the nose, by the agency
of a peerless “straight left,” 1752 times. Picato
spat on the floor 820 times, and blew his nose with-
out the assistance of a handkerchief on 172 occa-
sions. Picato missed Stagg's jaw 14 times a round
for 20 rounds. Sometimes he missed it as often as
20 times a round. While engaged in eluding his
persevering enemy Stagg ran 4 A miles; or close or,
a quarter of a mile per round. The words, “Get y>,
and fight, Picato,” were howled from the ringsik.
by persons totally unacquainted with the strenuwK.
Aankee pug. four times a minute for as long as the-
contest lasted —which is to say, for 60 minutes. The-
advice was well-meaning, but unnecessary, unless as.
a vent for superfluous hot air, since Picato was.
always getting in and fighting; or, at any rate, try-
ing to. The following remarks were passed once or-
oftener by every member of the crowd of 10,000, or-
thereabouts, that were present: “Stagg is a pretty
boxer, but he has no punch” ; “Picato is a game lad,
but as slow as a worm.” Congestion of the Rush-
cutter Bav tramway service set in punctually at 10-
p.m. The writer' nearly forgot to mention that
Stagg was declared the winner.


brand your
SHEEP
WITH
V.
i
mm ii vii
<&
PATENT
SHEEPBRAWMNfi LlfWim
BLACK, RED G BLUE (In 8-Gallon Cases).
4/6 Per Gallon.
1-Gallon Tins,
5/- each.
«. T , . . Kempton, Tasmania,
, Sir8 > ? 8 preferable to any I have ever used ; the longer it stands on thA
sheep, the more plainly it shows. (Signed) JAMES HADDON ‘ Senr
. “ Coorawong,” via Ooonamble, N.S.W.,
_ , « lr^’T7l have , b ,?? n “ Bln S “ Kemp’s Sheep Branding Liquid ” for a number of
years. I find Kemp s is the best. I will continue using it.
(Signed) A. J. HOWARD.
Agents in MELBOURNE (Dalgety & Co. Ltd.).
.. SYDNEY CE. RICH & Co., Ltd.).
~ ~ ADELAIDE CD. & J. Fowler Ltd.).
~ ~ KINGSTON, S.A. (Dalgety- & Co. Ltd.).
„ „ BRISBANE (E. RicH & Co. Ltd.).
• • „ ROCKHAMPTON (Dalgety & Co., Ltd.).
~ ~ TOWNSVILLE (Dalgety & Co. Ltd.).
~ ~ FREMANTLE (Dalgety &. Co. Ltd.).
~ ~ HOBART (Wm, Crosby & Co.).
„ „ LAUNCESTON (W. T. Bell & Co. Ltd.).
KEMP’S PATENT SHEEP BRANDING LIQUID IS NOT AN OIL AND
WILL NOT INJURE THE WOOL.
—but hear the
AMBEROLA!
YOU may think you have heard the Edison Phonograph at its limit of
perfection, but you really have not done so until you hear the Amberola—
the latest production of the genius of the wizard inventor, Thomas A.
Edison.
It is a beautiful instrument and a master-
piece of mechanical ingenuity. Its repro-
duction of all kinds of music is beyond
compare in its naturalness, sweetness and
richness of tone and rendition. It is the
highest expression of genius in craftsman-
ship—an elegant piece of furniture,
obtainable in various finishes of Oak or
Mahogany, to harmonise with the furnish-
ings of any home.
You owe it to yourself to hear the Edison
Amberola to-day. Any Edison dealer will
gladly oblige you. Ask the nearest for
full details, or write us direct for latest
lists of Edison Phonographs and Records.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale only),
Dept. 8., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
£
SP
B
few
A
23
-r>
i
MY HEALTH EXERCISES will SURELY
BENEFIT YOU.
Because they are simple and natural. They’re easy to do and
easy to remember.
hey make strong men out of weaklings, and sick men
healthy. No matter what your physical condition is, vou can
improve it by a course of my Health Exercises.
Pupils from all parts of Australia and New Zealand are
enthusiastic about my system—enthusiastic because they’ve
reaped such rich returns in better health and greater strength, at
little expenditure of time, effort or cash.
Here is proof:—
“I think it is the best investment I have ever made as
I feel a lot better since I started your lessons three weeks
a 9°■ —E.V.T., Ingham.
That is solid evidence of efficiency—a guarantee of the benefit
in store for you.
Why not write for full details, cost of tuition, etc., as given
in my illustrated, 40-page Booklet, “Health and Strength from
belt Culture. Send three penny stamps to cover postage.
Reg. L .(“Snowy”) Baker
*s*
198 Belmont Buildings, Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
00
(double‘o')
IF
YOU WILL go in for
Sport,
YOU WILL go in for Best
Material,
YOU WILL always obtain
this at-
L.W. DODGE# CO.
SYDNEY SPORTS STORES,
NOW LOCATED AT
10 & 12 HUNTER ST.,
SYDNEY.
SHELL’
BENZINE
the clean
AND
POWERFUL SPIRIT
FOR ALL MOTORS
Hygienic Cigarette
■and Cigar Holders
No. I.
These are the very latest in
holders, and they have many
distinctive features.
The holders are of Solid Sil-
ver, with quill mouthpieces
that can be changed as often
as desired.
The Silver can be
scalded; thus you
have a new holder
when required.
The illustration
shows the actual
sizes of each
holder.
No. I
CIGARETTE, 1/-
Quills, 3doz. for 17-
No. 2
CIGAR, 1/6
Quills, Cd. per dozen.
Postage, 2d. extra.
M Y ILLUSTB ATE I)
CATALOG, “A Book of
Good Smokes,” will interest
every smoker. Send to-day
for a copy.
h
A. M. SOLOMON,'
CIGAR EXPERT,
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
A PAIR OF RIGNEY SHOES
sdh
Let the finishing touch to your apparel be a
pair of RIGNEY SHOES.
Their Smart style, snappy and neat appear-
ance will give to you that air of distinction
so earnestly sought after by the correctly-
dressed man.
The boot here shown is made from Choice
Vici Kid, has patent toecap—very smart
and serviceable.
18/6 and 21/-
Postage, 9d. extra.
Write for a copy of our NEW Catalog.
The Rigney Shoe Co.
“The Men's Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
305 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY-
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE!


n
as
.
&
w
l
<-t
>*•
C~
u
§
Sat
4
ij&L
list*.
a
(l
KU
mSKtntiE~K
SAMATOGEtt
“I HAVE
RECEIVED A
SECOHD WIFE"
THE TtftPttT
Hundreds of thousands of people have derived
immeasurable benefits
From Sanatogen
Thousands of them have written to the proprietors
to say so. Their testimony records marvellous results
which, until its discovery, could never have been obtained
by any means at the disposal of the physician.
Among the writers are many celebrities with whose
names
You will
be as familiar as with your own.
Tens of thousands of doctors throughout the world
have prescribed Sanatogen, which a medical authoru),
writing in The Medical Press and Circular, states,
strengthened the physician’s hand a hundredfold, >
he adds, “the wonders brought this prep
tion are no less manifold than amazing.
This is high praise for any preparation to
Receive
but it has been endorsed by innumerable
Here, for instance, is one by that famous Au >
Madame Sarah Grand : “ Sanatogen has done ever 1 J
for me which it is said to be able to do or
nervous weakness and exhaustion. I began 0 e
after nearly four years’ enforced idleness “P™ An( j
weakness, and felt the benefit almost immediately. -
now, after taking it steadily three times a -
twelve weeks, I find myself able to enjoy b< ? j
and plav again, and also able to do as much o
ever did.” ,
To be so revitalised is, indeed, in Shakespeare
words, to receive
A Second Life
That experience may be duplicated by every
of these words, for Sanatogen so influences bloo d-
and muscular systems, the digestion and t gj ,jis-
making organs, that it restores the norma
organised by illness or disease. .j
Sanatogen is sold by all Chemists, in tins, at 2S.
3s. 6d. and 6s. 6d. ptled
An interesting and instructive t 0 all
“The Art of Living,” will be sent, I*wtfree. & Co.,
who write, mentioning this paper, to A. *
17, Bond Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
“C. Ocknev”: Ethel Irving’s first offering as a
London manageress proved what is politely termed
stumer.’’ **\ anity,’ after a run of a little more
than a fortnight, had to be taken off, and the delight-
ful comedienne is once more appearing as Lady
Erederick —her cleverest assumption to date. Somer-
set Maugham’s play holds among London productions
a sort of record 'for shiftiness, movableness, insta-
bility, pedestrianism, tent-dwelling and lack of the
home instinct. It is an Arab or Ishmaelite or bul-
lock-driver, or Flying Dutchman kind of play, it
was originally staged at the Court in 1907. Aftei
a few weeks it moved to the Garrick. Next, it went
to the Criterion, looked in at the New for a few
nights, and, later, had a good run at the Haymarket.
Now at the Globe, it is seemingly in for another
season of success, but I shouldn’t be at all surprised
to hear that it had transpired at Drury Lane or the
Palladium before these lines are printed. A peripa-
tetic lady like Lady Frederick takes a deal of
anchoring.
“O Iv ” • Genee and the Russian dancers, who come
with her (they are due at Her Majesty’s, Melbourne,
on the 21st) will revive memories of Bartho and the
Blue Ballet, of just 20 years ago. Bartho and D Argo
were the two toe dancers in short, stiff skirts, bix
or eight ballerinas from London were also im-
ported, and 80 Australian girls in blue supplied the
noble armv of legs. The ballet, which lasted nearly
an hour, was the afterpiece to one or other of the
short Italian operas that had then recently come into
vogue, “Pagliacci,” “Cavalleria” and L Ann F ritz
were produced in turn, Italia Del Torre (prima
donna) and Giraud, a tenor, who could act better
than he sang, were the leading principals of the
little opera co. The composite entertainment de-
lighted many people, but, somehow, the charm of
Bartho’s “high school’ dancing was not fully appre
ciated D’Argo was a more commonplace antste of
the same tvpe. but young Catherine Bartho s per-
formance was hall-marked on every movement. Her
pirouette was brilliant. After the opera-mm-ballet
season the “firm” engaged her for a solo dance in a
panto, at the Princess’s, and she even put her art to
the base uses of a sailor’s hornpipe. But what a
hornpipe! Melbourne never saw another step-dance
so light and joyous, before or since.
The curious little limited-liability co. in Adelaide,
which controls the destinies of Miss Clara blein-
schmidt, a prima donna in the making, has issued
another half-vearlv report. The girl has about
finished her London training, and has got a fine
report from Sir Hubert Parry, and there is still
£450 in hand to put a Continental fimsli on her
voice. It is duly reported that a local philanthropist
has made a sporting offer to buy up the co. s sole
asset, as a going concern, but the directors have
decided to see the experiment through.
“0.K.”: Clara Butt has joined the piratical crew of
concert songstresses who captured “Annie Laurie from
the weaker vessel, man, on the high C’s of vocalism.
The warbling of this old ballad, nowadays, is the
limit of sex assertion under the Women s Property
Act. Annie Laurie was the love song of a man who
was Annie’s sweetheart, and who proved the sincerity
of his passion by marrying—somebody else. it
refers to the softness of Annie’s eyes, cheek, neck, and
other personal charms, and expresses the singers
willingness to “dee” for love of the lady, it the
word Annie w T ere changed to Arthur, and the sex
of the personal pronoun were altered to match, and a
large, plump man sang the same ballad in its
amended form, the audience would hoot. Also, the
musical critics would say things. But the women—
soprano and contralto ' like —sing a mawkish ditty
of amorous devotion i ■ another girl, and nobody
reproves them for it.
Died last week, in Sydney, Pierre Chamboissier,
for manv years more or less connected with Poverty
Point. ‘ Long ago he ran certain very well-
known “Beauty Parlors” in Melbourne—die
was a perruquier by trade —and he married
Docy Stewart, a sister of “Sweet Nell.
Coming to Svdney three or four years back,
he established the Savoy, to rival Paris House, and
the profession turned in there for its gnu when
pockets were flush or friends were kind.
War correspondents have been off the Australian
bill of entertainment for many years, but Carlyle
Smvthe brings them back with Dr. Welby Fisher.
Welbv Fisher served as surgeon in the Servian army
during the Balkan clamor, and his yarn is illustrated
with some startling photos, from the scene of car-
nage. An army surgeon ought to be able to get the
horrors of war across the footlights, so to speak.
“Y.Z.”: I read the Saturday amusement advts. with
considerable profit. Here is what one gifted manager
had to sav over the star film at his transpontine
theatre: “Whether Tigerish in Her Full-blooded
Ferocitv, Or Languid in Sensuous Satiety, HLLLiS
GARDNER IS SUPREME.” Naturally, he had a
full house. I was there, but was keenly disappointed
—1 couldn’t discover the “sensuous satiety.”
“Screen”: The “Cleopatra” biograph, now shown
in Australia, is taken from four plays: Shakspeare s,
Sardou’s. Dryden’s, and one by Madame de Girardin, m
which Rachel acted Cleopatra. It is curious how
seldom Shakspeare’s was acted in his own time and
for long after. The magnificence of the work stole
tardilv over the public mind. And curious, too, how
many of the greatest English actresses have refused
to perform Cleopatra. Mrs. Siddons said: It is
degrading to a woman. I will never act Cleopatra.
Yet there was never an actress better fitted for it.
Her predecessors, such as Mrs. Bracegirdle, Mrs. Old-
field, Mrs. Pritchard, Mrs. Abington, and Peg Wof-
fington, were by no means particular, yet they also
scorned the part. No actresses of those days would
endure the hugger-mugging now practised on the
boards. Lovers must stand off! Going on from
Mrs. Siddons, you find that Miss O Neill, Mrs.
Warner, Fannv Kemble, Helen Faucit, and Mrs.
Charles Kean would not act Cleopatra. Then it was
featured bv Elinor Glyn, who broke down the pre-
iudice, if it be such. Thenceforward we have plenty
of Cleos—Miss Wallis. Mrs. Potter, Miss Collier, Miss
Bravton, and (oh, yes) Mrs. Miln (Louisa Jordan).
“Homo” : One of Melbourne’s notable landmarks is
the old Queen’s Theatre, which is now used by a furni-
ture manufacturer. It is a sturdy old brick building,
standing in Queen-street, near Lily Buck, and
machinery now occupies what was once the back of
the stage, on which, I am incredibly informed, the
prima donna of the period was mostly pelted with
nuggets instead of bouquets. A near relative is the
old Treasury, whither clattered and clanked the
armed gold'escort of the early days—a solid old
three-storey stone building—in W illiam-street, near
the Mint.' There’s a picture of it in the Public
Library, showing the arrival there of the first gold
escort, in 1852. The staff seen at the upper win-
dows were so impressed by the tidings brought in
that they skied pens and pencils in a body next
day and streaked north to join in the rush. Close
at hand were the military Quarters, some of which
still stand. The original military barracks (an im-
mense one-storey structure in Latrobe-street, west of
King-street) exists in the present guise of a technical
HSf oulhtTo
in Australia, Charles Surface hig
uncrKeneXleTaVours is on a purely business
other day London West-end theatre managers
in other parts of their plagued houses. they tear
strain but only'because misery loves company . If one
manager knows a good thing he will certainly not
nit the whole bundle on to it, and the fact that
each is there, condoling and seeking condolence, is
proof sufficient that he has exhausted his stocW
brilliant ideas. These are the gen public itself
what the public wants, a thing the Puoiic itseii
doesn’t know. It is pretty plain though, that the
nnblic knows what it doesn t want.
The turkey-trot has been put on the index of pro-
hibited dances in Germany, and a B ULLE ™ c
nnnHent thereabouts sends a report of the nrst prose,
cution The young trotter was sentenced to six months
imprisonment, his partner -
ordered to do six days and pay a fine of ot) marts
The miscreants had persisted in their artistic infamy
after thev had been officially warned; and this, it
was explained, added to the crimsonness of their
offence. . .
“Chudah”: Two Yiddish theatres are going strong
in London East End—the Pavilion and Paragon The
pioneer was Sigmund Feinman, a good actor and
rnnnafrer but he failed. A Aiddish theatre, caneu
the Temple of Art, then sprang up in Commercial-
road if offered Grand Opera and high-class drama,
on a Russian basis, but failed, too Next a great
Vid dish actor, Moscovitch, came from New
and succeeded even with plays by Schiller, Gorky,
Tolstov Strindberg and Zangwill. Moscovitch was at
the Pavilion. .Joseph Kessler and Diana Feinman
then took the Paragon, where they have ,succeeded
too with a repertoire including Othello, „ K °™ eo
and Juliet,” “Hamlet,” “Camille,” “Sappho,’ ‘Re,
surrection,” “Monte Christo’ and Ibsens Dolls
Houle ” The Yid actors and actresses perform nine
times a week, and hardly ever give the same piece
twice running. That’s the kind of school of acting
in which Kean, Irving and Mrs. werej^red^
The humble performers even work at trades, and tne
majority hive had no schooling. They let themselves
go like a whirlwind—all nerves and flesh and blood.
“ « Vulcan ”: A London West End cook so en-
thralled the inner Caruso with a feed of macaroni,
the other day, that the tenor insisted on personally
carrying his 'thanks to the kitchen. There he grate-
fully offered the lady pot-manipulator the choice
of a ticket to his next concert or a song on the
spot. She wisely chose the moment while the foo
still worked, so to speak; so Caruso, leaning on t
kitchen dresser, gave her “La donna mobile £
his best style. As he once demanded £4OO for the
same thing this is probably the highest-priced feed
of macaroni on record. ,
“J FH ” • Brandon Thomas, author of Charley s
\unt!”' remembers that the piece comes of age in
December, so he is going to give a series of festival
performances. Twenty years ago little comic-faced
Penlev approached him with a request for a play.
“Have vou ever played a woman?” Thomas asked.
“ No ” replied Penlev, “ but I rather like the idea.
Thomas set to work and wrote “Charley s Aunt
in three weeks. Penlev continued to play it for 12
vears without a break, making a big fortune. Then
he got tired of it, and the rights reverted to the
author, who has been running it ever since in Lon-
don and the provinces. Between times it has been
translated and played in 18 languages.
“The Religious Editor” :
Immersed as I am in theological study and drink
I have little time or attention to spare for the
things of this world. But though I stand aloof with
my rum bottle from the bustle of life, I can’t heir,
noticing that nowadays every second suburbanite k
a director of a company for making something, or
doing something, or somebody. Men you wouldn’t
suspect of owning a third suit of clothes carry round
brief bags full of prospectuses and formal estimates
showing to the last decimal and the uttermost
ha’penny that, in so many years, so many hundred
thousand pounds must be made. There is no escane
from it. The “money is there just waiting to he
picked up.” And if you don’t hurry along with your
sack, somebody else will hurry along with his and
become rich and arrogant, while you call yourself all
the d—d fools in all the asylums on earth." If a man
hasn’t got the money to “get in on the ground floor”
(you hear this phrase in every tram compartment
now), about the best thing the poor devil can do is
to compile a good long list of things to call himself
in the rich by-and-bye. One of the impressive points
about this rage for company-promoting is the light
cheerful fashion in which they talk about the hard
cash in hand, and, contrariwise, the heavily voluptuous
manner in which you are instructed about the remote
shadowy profits which will happen along when you
haven’t got any more capital, but are part-owner of
a tram track through the virgin forest, and a boiler
and are cursed along with your grasping co-directors
by a number of wild bush employees with corns on
their hands. The usual formula is: “You just put a
few hundred into it now, and in three years' time
there you are! You’ve got your capital back, and all
the rest is profit! Simple, isn’t it! Just to show
you” (Here the director puts his face into the
bag he carries for the purpose, and churns up his
everlasting papers.) “Um-um ! Let’s see now! Ah,
here it is ! Now just to show you what a good thing
it is, look at these figures—there’s no escape from
them ! The money’s just lying there waiting to be
picked up!” Then you take the accursed estimate
and note how stern and ruthlessly truthful the report-
ing expert is. No matter how much money you are
going to be burdened with, he grimly sets it clown, so
that it will shock you and waft you round with the
strange feeling that your heels are not touching the
ground, and that you have always undervalued your-
self —like a rich company. If you only dreamed’ in a
pleasantly subdued way of a little private income and
a house of your own, you are going to be disap-
pointed. No*matter how much you kick against it in
your Spartan simplicity, you are presently going to
be rich, and pampered, and looked up to, and envied.
Y'ou may be allowed to go along for a bit in the
old, unobtrusive fashion, and wear the old clothes
and the bashed hat that enrages your wife. But pre-
sentlv the “works” will get going, and then—! Well,
vou just sit tight and see! Oh, I can imagine the
inside feelings—the tingling, inflated sensation of the
new company director. But I know the horrible,
gnawing that racks the misbegotten hound without
the necessary “few hundreds” that you fling round for
a start and treat with the contempt they deserve. If
I could only find out the miserable secret of how to
get those “few hundreds.” I could get rich with per-
fect security in at least five different directions at the
present time. But I haven’t got them, and I would
rather die than ask any of the 25 company directors on
our morning tram for a loan. You wouldn’t think it to
look at them, but those men have such a withering
contempt for hundreds and money in the bank that
an ordinarv salary-chaser can only sit and hold his
worthless breath while they drone together of the
davs when the mills or works will be fairly going,
and the bv-products are bringing in the distant tun-
pence-ha’penny everv five and three-quarter seconds. If
they would onlv talk of tuppence-ha’penny now, and
regard the hundreds with scorn and contempt, I, too,
would be Napoleonic, and never be seen abroad with-
out a load of prospectuses, experts’ reports, and so
forth As things are, I just endure in agonised silence,
thank them brokenlv for their condescending
offers of shares, pretend that I have somewhere a vast
hoard of unused money, and generally play the part
of a d —d poor hvpocrite. Confidence is a fine thing,
and a man without hope is a man half-dead. But-
aren’t we overdoing it just a bit?
AT THE STAGE DOOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He stood outside the picture show,
A dismal figure in the rain,
And very much I wished to know
What held the neatly-tailored swain.
The crowd had gone, dark was the hall,
And still he lingered by the wall.
“Why do you watch? Why do you wait?’'
In dulcet tones I asked of him.
A “hie” bore witness to his state —-
He was, in fact, full to the brim,
He grinned at me, he rattled dibs,
Then slyly dug me in the ribs.
“Hie, pretty girl,” he said, “you know
She shot the villain from a tree;
The smartest actress in the show ;
She can do what she likes with me.
You get— l’m waiting here for her,
And till she comes I do not stir!
VICTORIA.
THE COP.


y-j*.
.
'
i
•-•Y 4 7
•.■ , .
mi
gsm
tm :• * • • , .
.
j
‘ - , •
•'••.■ --v ■mT >: > - ■;.
' •.- ' . *.'’'•
- :
Sig 1 m
• ■. *'. ’ .
- ■''
■ -*4*;;;; .-’j
-
• •••. .-. • «»; , ' • ;■
i
I •- "• •'
| *. ; : \/4 *f
KtxqeSSEJ
Supplied
• TO THE *
House of commons J
KXHKraSMi
mmm m
r
-■
?YY; ; %4 -
n>»*i
<
RJHorne & Sons. Limited.
• Greenock Distillery-
Lion House. Tower Hill. LONDON. EC.
HARK,
M
o At tltS f£f 0 to r n
abouicnf .nr« c £°*
’ CAIIOH
.' ■ •
s
kv-ni' I
* s -
i ■ -■
l - ’, . :
■
|
'•' ' j
tjf jpi'.ji'ii-
•' - . ■ ■»?%.' i
:
,:- r
' ' 7
"0:
mm
m
9
wn ISK Y
THORNE’S OLD HIGHLAND MALT WHISKY is a genuine
1 f° h ™tsky of rare excellence-thoroughly aged, delight-
fully mellow, and of a quality that never fails to win the
8-ood opinion of epicures. If you would experience the real delight
of a true Glenlivet spirit you should be sure to order
Incomparable Thorne’s Old Highland Malt Whisky.


Debility
enfeebled nerves, poor
health and weakened blood
—these are troubles that
can be overcome. SCOTT’S
Emulsion never fails. It
repairs waste, enriches the
blood, revitalizes the nerves
and gives strength to resist
or drive out weakness and
disease. When you are
run-down, out of sorts or
in poor health ask for
and get genuine SCOTT’S —
the remedy that all doctors
recommend. But be sure
it is SCOTT’S—with the
fishman on the package.
scons
Emulsion
TRADE
MARK
SHORT Stories, Novels,
Poems, etc., Wanted.
We are commissioned by a well-known
weeklv journal to offer prizes of £lO 10s.
and £5 ss. for the best short stories sub-
mitted before July 31, 1913.
We also have a purchaser for a novel by
an Australian writer.
Highest prices secured for Short Stones,
Poems, Special Articles, etc.
MS. revised and every assistance given to
beginners.
1913 Prospectus posted free on request.
Australasian Literary Agency,
Pendennis Chambers, Sydney.
ANTINEURASTHIN
TREATMENT OF
NERVOUS AND WASTING DISEASES.
The wonderful properties of Antineurasthin (Leci-
thin in an absolutely pure form) for successfully
treating all nerve maladies. Dyspepsia, Anaemia,
Rheumatism, etc., and imparting permanent mental
and nerve force, reflect the latest and most important
achievements in medical science.
One of the most important of the wonderful re-
sults obtained by this treatment is that not alone
does it build up the nervous system by feeding the
brain and nerve-cells with their natural food ele-
ment, but on account of its beneficial action upon
the process of nutrition and upon the blood, the
whole general health shows prompt improvement,
narticularlv in wasting diseases.
A FREE TRIAL.
In order that the worth of Antineurasthin may be
tested a sample supply, together with a treatise on
nervous maladies, will be forwarded to any address
in Australia on receipt of 2d. in stamps to cover
postage bv the wholesale representative, H. A. God-
dard No.' 3 Australasian Chambers, 406-414 Queen
Street Brisbane: or Branches: 194 Vickery's Cham-
bers S 2 Pitt Street. Sydney; 9-15 Safe Deposit
Buildings. Queen Street, Melbourne; 3 Ellershaw s
Buildings, Cliff Street, Fremantle; 213 Smeeton s
Buildings. Queen Street. Auckland.
Serial No 810. —Guaranteed under the Pure Foods
Act of New South Wales by H. A. Goddard Sydney,
to contain not less than 10 per cent. Pure Lecithin.
No. 810. 12
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is the)
kind you want, not some'
other kind. Insist upon get-
ting "Ayer’s.’
4 CORRESPONDENT writes: “There is
always one feature in The Lone
Hand each month that is alone worth the
price charged for the whole number.” The
price of The Lone Hand is 6d.
STAMMERING.
K/ R W. A. YEARSLEY, Bowen Terrace. Mel-
M Under special appointment to Munici-
pal Education Committees, England and South
Africa. Method approved Board of Edu^ t J° n ’
Subsidised by Governments. Awarded Gold Medal
tor excellency. Booklet* tent fret.
Have You Tried Herbs
for Your Illness ?
Fnr hundreds of vears the common, simple herbs were all that were used as medicines-
and the peSe in the olden times used to live longer and healthier.
T believe Herbs will often cure where other treatment fails—m fact, I know many, many
I believe “ e , . . b _ go n( j i want you to try the simple, natural Herb Cure for
cases where this ' r svmptoms and all narticulars — I will send you a full
yOU fhv^,mnlv’of HerbT suited for vour illness, with full direction how to use them
- -
J. W. CASE., ph. c., m.p.s.,
Botanic Pharmacist, BRISBANE, Q.
£■
cs?
An
Odorless Breath
A
is but one of the many advantages that Pebeco
provides. Cleaner, whiter, stronger teeth, firmer,
healthier gums, and a high standard of mouth
health, all inevitably follow its night and morning
use.
OBTAINABLE ALL CHEMISTS.
Trial Tube of Pebeco, with interesting book and
test papers, free for three penny stamps, on appli-
cation to the Sole Agent,
G. ARNOLD
(Dept. M), 6 O’Connell Street, Sydney A
(W HOLESALE ONLY). [1
Hunyadi Janos
Liver disturbances are, as a rule, due to indiscretions of diet,
to excess of wine and to want of exercise. The condition, how-
ever, may be promptly and thoroughly remedied by a wineglass-
ful of Hunyadi Janos Natural Aperient Water taken every
morning on arising, before breakfast, jt brings relief in the
natural, easy way. Bottled at the springs, just as nature
creates it and intends it should be taken. Sold by all chemists.
The Famous NATURAL Aperient Water.
Champion Shoe
St. Louis
B.S.A.
sdh
Machinery Co.,
Combination Harness
and Shoe Stitchers,
Nailers, and Finishing
Outfits (power or
foot). Easily operated.
non-royalty
No Shoe Repair Shop Complete without " CHAMPION " Outfits.
J. W. LARBALESTIER, LTD.,
Circular Quay East, Sydney, N.S.'W.
CATALOGUES (ILLUSTRATED) POST FREE ON APPLICATION.
[1
Sole Australasian
Agents,
*
PREPARE FOR LONG WINTER NIGHTS
Bv having the best form of entertainment
AND GET ONE OF OUR SPECIAL HOME
BIOGRAPH MOVING
PICTURE OUTFITS
which includes Perfect Machine. Safe and
Lighting Outfit, and a Splendid SelecOon nt t 0 »y
whole complete will be securely packed, and -
part of the world for £5 ca sh - or on onr
EASY fMRTfIiMFMT SYSTEM AT 8 ■ MONTHI,
This wonderful little Biograph Machine « not a toy; it is built s; r,ns
contains Film Spools, powerful lens, top and bottom sprockets, appa. ior years, *wj
lamp-house. Light to carry, shows standard-size Films, guaranteed =»fe. « send
will exhibit clear, flickerless moving pictures. Suitable jor Home, Church,
to-day for our _
FREE ILLUSTRATED Terv door »
,\Fe stock other Biograph outfits from £lO upwards. Remember, we send
complete Biograph Machine, Brilliant Lighting, and a Selection of Films, -- »J C
WORLD’S BIOGRAPH LTD.. Bathurst St., Sydney,
Shaving will be a Pleasure once you 8 e * a
“PLUM” RAZOK.
sd
hsd
, , ID d irritated
No more scraping or pulling—no more roughen »-iU stave voo
chin. The keen, true blade of th._- solenuiu , velvety,
swiftly and comfortably, and leave your race aaoo _ years-
Order one to-day. and we will keep it in first-cl*»
free of
PRICE 10 6, Post Free.
The C. <fc A. Moustache Trainer
shapes the moustache. Worn
at night; 2,6, 3,6, 5,6 each
post free.
We Grind and Bet Razor*, 1/- each.
SAFETY RAZORS FROM 5 6.
Send for our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
Single Razor. VM.cafliW Hand!*.« 6
Pair in Double Ca#e ' ' dje 15 $.
Single Razor, jrory «an *v., ;sthe
Pair in Double Case. » D[ .
Une ttat w *S!±f°£ia»iVl
The Plum *azor Sfrop. u MC n.
Other good kinds from o 0
StTck *ood Snamng ■ . Tube
The Plum Strop Dr^^j ien iselv«
Gentlemen who
should no: »*« ,lh S*J j**.
All the Above tirc
GEORGE STREET
SYDNS*
'ESTABUS&D 30 TEARS.
054
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
So notice ( except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped. |
Same and address must appear on MSS. A 0
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returns
unless stamps accompany.
H.N.: That yarn about the intoxicated
man who told the lady to go to perdition, and
afterwards repented, and apologised by telling er
she needn’t go to perdition, is a trifle over the odds
in the venerable line. It used to hang out in t e
Western U.S. about Bret Harte’s time Phil H. =
That’s the sort of thing that had better be reporte
direct to the Chief Electoral Officer A\ J B ’ :
Sorrv can’t oblige; the figures weren * se P a ™tf“....
J.R.G.: Too small a trifle J.P.S.: Hopelessly ver
bose. When you send us lib. of meat, we don t want
two acres of trimmings with it.. . .Cambridge. Don
care to advise; you’d probably do as well m North
Queensland as anywhere. Write the Queensland
Under-Sec. of Mines Federation: No; but he
stood for the Federal Convention which framed the
Constitution.... The Waster: The flrst was one* a
smart friend that dropped in so often that it became
a bore; so the second falls under suspicion.... ilaage
B.: Faint little story, which makes no deeper impres-
sion than a burglarious mouse on a ban k .*? te ' *’ '
Constant R.: Must firmly decline to publish your
letter until they warm the cells of m t .he
winter....Pakeha: Good, but it seemed better when
it was young and tender. .. .Tongala: Have n
what is the greatest number of times a billiard ball
has been driven up and down the table at one stroke.
In confidence, the type of readers who submits dam
phoolish problems of this sort to us earns our
heartiest loathing John Boss: Fisher was in
office when the members of the Federal Parliament
raised their salaries.... X.C.0.: You are obviously
an ordinary beginner, and the ordinary beginner
needs too much advice to be served in this column.
On present form, you are years away from print....
Bellerive: A prose item this week, the weather being
wet and unsuitable for verse: “In a slum avenue
stood an old dilapidated Rookery frequented nightly
bv homeless Outcasts commonly known as dossers.
And among the ragged lodgers whom put up at the
rookerv was a shabby genteel Individual who bore
the name of Parson Jim by his poverty stricken com-
panions. And although addicted to reflection and
apparentlv silent as to the cause of his Misfortune
and downfall they regarded him with kindness and
respect for they Recognised in their rough way he
was a Man who’d seen better Days. One night
while the regular Dossers were Mucking (?) around
the town parson Jim was shadowed to the paradise
bv a fierce and desperate ruffian they met within the
Hovel and by the dim light of a smoky oil lamp
parson Jim glared upon an old and bitter enemy \\ e
meet at last exclaimed the intruder Parson Jim
reeled against the crusty waR of The den and gasped
Bill Dennis God protect me yes Bill Dennis your
once sweetheart’s Brother replied the miscreant with
a cry of terror parson jim endeavored to escape.
(NOTE. —This will have to be a serial. Therefore—
To be concluded in our next.)... .Charles H.: Air
king blown out. and others along with him......
H W D : It collapses gentlv in the last paragraph.
An old, old climax Maisie M.: In the words of
Bunthome —“Ve-ry precious ! Ve-ry tender !’....
W.A.S.: It is a sorrowful fact that the extremely
tidv MS. often indicates the careful, tidy man who
distills dullness from the flowers of experience —or
words to that effect. Respectfully basketed......
T.E.I. (M.L.): It misses R.K.: “Off, Marmion!
Off!” T.F.: “Friendless” is very fumbling and
uneven —the thought is clumsily indicated but not
expressed. Declined with one grain of regret
Frank McC.: Cannot reprint matter previously pub-
lished elsewhere. This would not go even if it hap-
pened to be new.... J.A.T.: Not bad, but not good
enough A. McG. (Q.) : But all those horse verses
have been done —and done well. This ambles in
about ten years after the field.... Fred X.: Brown
is an underproof drunk. .. .Pietro: Y'arn too thin.
This paper resides simultaneously, or concurrently,
in two cities, and is represented in other cities. The
article you refer to was written by the Melbourne
representative and signed by him at the Melbourne
office in accordance with the Federal electoral law.
The head office address is 214 George-street, Sydney
—where the paper is also printed, published, black-
guarded, bothered, borrowed from, and, occasion-
ally, read for nothing. The Yictorian office address
is ’ 369 Collins-street, Melbourne, where the same
things happen H.E.S.: The sun just squinted
through the everlasting rain clouds as your outrage
came up for sentence. At the special intercession of
the Religious Editor, who had been deeply moved by
Heaven’s unexpected smile, your sentence has been
commuted to mere hanging, and the Court hopes it
will be a warning to you never to do it again
J. \.T.: Cheerfullv over the edge, but it fails to get
a verdict... .S.F.C.: By all means. Unfortunately
the poem has no lustre.... Ixion: Too plain a tale...
J. Kay: No; Josh Billings joshed so well that any
modern pursuer needs to josh very brightly indeed...
F.R.: Rejected in damp weather and without any
spasms of regret. You did not attach your full
name. Have you got a full name, qr are you just
branded with two letters on the off hind-leg
M.M.: See-saw! See-saw! Hear the verdant poet’s
caw! Phrases old and phrases stale, jogging over
“hill and dale.” To the basket it’s confided, and
—“it did full justice to the good things provided.”
G.R.H.: It twinkles a little, but in this time of
national stress and strain the scuffle of two contend-
ing critics, or something of the kind, up a literary
blind allev has little general interest. Sorry
E.C.: Immigrant’s addled egg story not very humor-
ous and rather unpleasant.... David C. (Tas.) : Well,
she requires a lot of lessons before there is any open-
ing on this or any other paper. The “no lesson”
business is overdone. Occasional geniuses may suc-
ceed without any lessons, but ordinary people have
to be trained in the ordinary way. It is a pity that
natural abilitv should be starved by having no les-
sons ... .C.L.:' Both stories old Daniel Mackey:
Provided both bodies are the same size and shape
and weight, their composition is not a factor in their
falling speed Sluice Box: Your story appears very
interesting, but nobody in this office can get the true
hang of it.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
H.K.: No good at all R.C.8.: And we said in
our haste like David: “All artists are dash, dash,
dash blanks." Some of them started drawing pic-
tures re the result of the elections last Sunday week,
under the impression that all the votes in Australia
were counted in a day. and that there are only about
27.000 votes in the lot. The heap of pictures on
hand and awaiting the result is something terrible.
Even that usually acquiescent person.
Judge Johnston, of Victoria, went off his
course lately to stress the fact that that
State is the only one in Australia and about
the oiily civilised community in the world
that doesn’t possess a Workmens Compen-
sation Act. More than once such a measure
has been introduced —the last time only
last session—but always the stupidest legis-
lative body on earth has either talked it
out or pushed it aside. When Judge John-
ston had finished his remarks John Weary
roused himself sufficiently to say that
another Bill —a replica of last session’s —
would be introduced this year. Probably;
and it will probably meet with much the
same fate, because the House of Rich Land-
lords is the same dull animal as before.
Half of those Landlords retired the other
dav. and of the 17 who went before the
electors on Friday last no less than 12 were
returned unopposed. So little public inter-
est was taken in the matter that of the four
who were opposed—one retired into private
life absolutely—all but one were returned
by mere handfuls of electors.


What Those Who Know Say of the
BEALE HIGH-GRADE PIANOS.
1 he great majority of our Pianos are sold on the personal recommendation of users, and we are
constantly receiving letters from our customers praising the BEALE High-grade PIANOS. Our
instruments are in use in every part of Australia ; in New Zealand, Fiji, Samoa, New Caledonia,
Mauritius, South Africa, India, and on the continent of Europe ; and everywhere they give the
same unbounded satisfaction.
Below we give a few (greatly condensed) extracts from unsolicited testimonials from buyers of
Beale High-grade Pianos.
o o • •
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Mr. F. OWEN, jun., Hon. Sec. School of Arts,
Tuena: —
“Piano has given every satisfaction. People com-
petent to judge say it is the best instrument in the
district.”
Mrs. J. A. SWAIN, Kilphysic, Caroll: —
“Has tood the changeable seasons remarkably well.
We are all very pleased with it.”
Mr. G. JONES, Canterbury:—
“Piano has given every satisfaction. No hesitation
in recommending the Beale to anyone as the finest
piano procurable.”
Mr. E. E. VIDLER, Morisset:—
“Piano is in perfect order, notwithstanding the
fact that it has been in constant use.”
Mrs. ELLEN KILLEEN, Wolfram Street, Broken
Hill:—
“Has given every satisfaction. Tone is rich and
full; instrument has stood the Broken Hill climate
wonderfully ; better than any other piano that I know
of. Would recommend the Beale Piano to anyone who
wants a real good piano.”
Mr*. JOAN MASSIE, 44 Hunter Street, Newcastle:—
“The tone exceeds my expectations, being wonder-
fully mellow, while the external finish is very hand-
some. Several professionals have expressed their ad-
miration.”
Mrs. C. JENNINGS, Blende Street, Broken Hill:—
“Better to-day than when it was supplied to me
five years ago, and we have had some very severe
weather since then. The tone improves with use.
Can recommend the Beale Piano to anyone requir-
ing a first-class piano for tone, touch and dura-
bility."
Mrs. F. RUDDOCK, Waimea, Walgett Street, Ka-
toomba:—
“Highly delighted with it.”
Mr. J. SLATER, Killarney, East Moree:—
“Wish to express my fullest satisfaction in every
way with the instrument.”
Mr. J. HOGG, Lithgow:—
“Piano has given perfect satisfaction.”
Mr. CHARLES R. RAYNER, Sec. Oddfellows’ Lodge,
Casino: —
“Piano has given every satisfaction.”
Mr. A. GREEN, Burwood Street Junction, New-
castle :
“The time that it will remain in tune is wonder-
ful. I have had English and foreign pianos, but they
never remained in tune a quarter of the time, nor
came near the Beale for tone.”
Mrs. W. O’HARA, Wyalong:—
“More than pleased with my piano. Everyone who
has heard it admires its beautiful tone.”
Miss A. M. RUDDER, Kempsey:—
“Have no hesitation in saying that it would be
impossible to get a more satisfactory instrument
from every standpoint. Its tone is to-day as soft
and brilliant, and its appearance as handsome as
the day it was bought.”
Mrs. C. C. GRAHAM, Temoin Street, Trangie:—
“Very pleased with Beale Piano. Always ready
to recommend your pianos to anyone requiring a
first-class instrument.”
Mrs. P. POWER, Rose Mount, Forest Hill, Wagga:—
“May mention that I am very pleased with the
piano you sent me. Tone is very rich.”
Mrs. H. B. WALLACE, Glenroy, Bertram Street,
Mortlake: —
“Piano is a ‘gem.’ Has given every satisfaction.”
QUEENSLAND.
Mrs. M. McKINNON, 357 Bolsover Street, Rock-
hampton :
“Piano is perfect. A friend of mine who was
prejudiced against the Beale Piano, decided to get
one when she heard mine.”
Mr. A. R. ROBINSON, Sec. People’s Progressive
League, Adelaide Street, Brisbane: —
“Piano is giving great satisfaction. Many have
expressed their surprise at such a high-grade instru-
ment being manufactured in Australia.
Mrs. M. WARD, Mount Perry, via Bundaberg:—
“We are all very well satisfied with the piano.
Tone is excellent.”
VICTORIA.
Mr. J. H. BAYNE, Carnarvon Street, Auburn: —
“A superb instrument with a magnificent tone.
Friends admire it greatly.”
Miss GLADYS WAITE, Norong, via Rutherglen:—
“The piano has given me entire satisfaction.”
Mrs. G. M. GOULD, Thomson Street, Hamilton: —
“Will never cease recommending your pianos, as
I think so highly of them. Mine has given nothing
but satisfaction.” .
Miss L. LOVERING, State School, Kerang:—
“Thoroughly satisfied with the instrument.”
Mr. J. H. ROGERS, Woolocot Street, Coburg:—
“Must say that everyone who has been to my
place has nothing but praise for the piano.”
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Mr. H. J. ARMITAGE, Public School, Houghton:—
“Piano, which I have had for three years, has been
in constant use, and tone is as good as when I got
it. Pianists often remark on its great purity of
tone.”
Mrs. H. WALKER, Wandilo, Mount Gambier: —
“Must express my satisfaction with your beauti-
ful, sweet-toned instrument.”
Mrs. C. EVERETT, Renmark:—
“Much' appreciated by all who play it.”
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Mr. G. A. BEECK, Ivatanning:—
“Self and family are more than pleased with the
Beale High-grade Piano.”
Mr. J. A. MILLS, York:—
“Quite satisfied with piano in every way.”
Mrs. C. POWELL, Linden Villa, Stirling Street.
Perth: —
“There is not a better instrument in Perth.”
Mr. T. WARD, Wagin, Western Australia: —
“Greatly satisfied in every respect.”
Mr. W. H. BROWN, Kalgoorlie
“Very pleased with the instrument. Much better
than I expected.”
TASMANIA.
Mr. W. K. DRAKE, Westburg:—
“Piano has given entire satisfaction. Have had
it two years, and it has not yet needed tuning.”
Mr. HENRY NEWTON, Launceston:—
“As good as the day I bought it. Can safely re-
commend to anyone. Good pianists have pronounced
it to be a first-class instrument. Touch and tone
are perfect.”
The above are just a few of the many testimonials that we are continually receiving
from users of Beale High-Grade Pianos.
Such success has only been obtained through our unwearying efforts to produce an
instrument of the best quality. That we have succeeded is proved by the opinions of
those who should know best —the users of our pianos.
To obtain this quality we have invented patent methods of construction which render
our pianos more durable, while retaining and enhancing all the musical qualities of the
great makes of the Old World. The use of an iron wrest-plank—which is part of our
patent steel tuning-system—is as great an improvement in the art of piano manufacture
as was the superseding of the old wooden-frame by the iron-frame which is used in all
modern pianos. In addition, we have introduced many other improvements, such as our
method of building up the casework from cross-plies of wood which is all thoroughly
seasoned here, and hence fit to withstand Australian climatic conditions much better than
timber seasoned in the cold, damp climate of Europe. In order to get the best of skilled
artisans, we pay higher wages than those awarded by the Wages Boards in the various
trades. We naturally get the best artisans, and thus the best of skill. We use only the
finest of materials.
We realise that an Australian-made piano is subjected to much closer scrutiny in
Australia than any imported piano, and therefore we make—we are compelled to make —
our pianos much better than those of our competitors. But then, by making pianos in
Australia we are in a position to make them much better suited to Australian conditions.
Any competent cabinet-maker will tell you that timber seasoned in the cold, damp climate
of Europe cannot be expected to withstand Australian conditions of dry heat as well as
timber which is seasoned in this climate. This is a most important point in piano-
making, and is one good reason why so many foreign pianos develop cracked sounding-
boards, split tuning-systems and faulty casework soon after arrival in this country. But
no man can say that he ever saw a Beale piano with a cracked sounding-board. We
absolutely guarantee that the sounding-boards of the Beale Pianos will never crack in any
climate, because our special system of construction renders cracking an impossibility, at
the same time that it greatly enhances the tonal qualities of the instrument. Beale
pianos contain the only practical steel tuning-system in the world —so there can be no
question of splitting of the wrest-plank. And then our patented system of cross-plied
woodwork ensures permanence of the outside case of the pianos.
Be sure of this: the better musician you are, the more you will delight in a Beale High-grade Piano.
We have always on hand a number of good second-hand pianos, taken in part payment of
Beale Pianos.
Call and inspect the Beale Pianos now . Inspection does not put you under any obligation
whatever. You suit yourself entirely as to whether you purchase.
If you cannot call, write for Catalogue, which we will be glad to send post free. We sell for
cash or on easiest terms.
BEALE IT TTO. LTD.,
MAKERS OF
BEA. L E HIGH-GRADE PI A. NO S
"The Utmost Care in the Smallest Details.**
CARL VADER PIANOS.
Prices: £49, 55, 60, 65, 70, 75, 80, 85, 95, 100, 115, 150, and 240 Guineas,
LIVERPOOL ST. (opposite Mark Foy’s), SYDNEY.
127 RUNDLE ST., ADELAIDE, S.A.
107 SWANSTON ST., MELBOURNE..
839 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.
90-92 QUEEN ST., opp. Pike Bros., our new and ONLY Address in BRISBANE.
Branch Offices at Newcastle, Bathurst, Orange, Wagga and Broken Hill, N.S.W.;
Maryborough, Rockhampton, Mackay and Townsville, Queensland; Kalgoorlie, W.A.
TRAVELLERS EVERYWHERE. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE. 25 YEARS’ GUARANTEE.
Head Office and Factories - - TRAFALGAR ST., AN NAN DALE, SYDNEY.
CASH 01 EASY TERMS. REPAIRS and TUNING. Save Importers’ Profits by Buying Direct from the Manufacturers.


507-
ROSE BOWL, pure silver-plated,
handsomely embossed with ebony
plinth.
Other Designs, 30/-, 35/-, 60/-
20/-
SALAD BOWL and SERVERS, fine crystal cut
glass, pure silver-plated, nickel-silver mounted.
8/6.
HONEY JAR, pure silver-plated,
nickel-silver frame, thistle design.
With Servers.
AUNDERS
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER
Wedding' Gifts.
"We Have such a lovely selection of New Designs
in Wedding' Gifts.
Do let us send you our Silverware Catalog—it’s tree.
SUGAR SCUTTLE, p
ver-plated, hand-e n g
“Butterfly” design,
value.
ire sil -
av e d
speeia'
WE PERSONALLY
SUPERVISE ALL
ORDERS.
• 21/-
HOT WATER JUG, pure sil-
ver-plated, hand-e ngrared
“Butterfly” design.
20/-
SUGAR and CREAM STAND, pure silver-
plated frame, fancy floral china.
Other Designs, 7/6, 10/6, 12/6,
20/-
<S(.Xau7icie- / z 4.
15/6.
AFTERNOON TEA SPOONS and TONGS,
pure silver-plated, “Gadroon” design.
15/6.
BUTTER DISH and
KNIFE “Shell” shape,
finest silver-plated nickel
silver, satin glass.
WE PAY POSTAGE
ON ALL
SILVERWARE.
KB
ffi
12/6.
PICKLE JAR and
TONGS, pure silver-
plated, richly embossed,
fancy pressed glass.
22/6.
CAKE BASKET, pure silver-plated
handsomely embossed, highly burn-
ished.
18/6.
TEAPOT, pure silver-plated, richly engraved,
“Butterfly” design.
LIEJ
m
Irfrl
IE
!Lj
E
rir
£|r
21/-
DINNEIi CRUET, pure silver-plated,
crystal glass bottles.
807-817 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
H
Vt
//
„
si
r ~
m
T
What a difference stropping makes!
Only those who have used an Auto Strop in comparison
with a non-stropping safety can tell just how much difference
there is—not only in the smooth, close shave which the
sharp stropped blade of an Auto Strop ensures, but in the
simplicity of its use also.
It takes far less time to strop an Auto Strop blade (and so keep it in the pink of condition)
than to put a new blade into a non-stropping safety razor. The Auto Strop is the only razor
that strops itself and conseouently
SAVES CONSTANT EXPENSE FOR BLADES.
Auta&trop
kWoti
Standard Set, containing self-stropping
Auto Strop Safety Razor, one dozen
improved rust-proof “ Valet ” blades,
and genuine horsehide strop, complete
in leather-covered case.
Pnce in Australia - - 22/ 6
Price in New Zealand 25/-
Obtainable of all high-class Dealers
throughout Australasia.
Sole Depot for Australasia :
PARTRIDGE—ABERCROMBY, Ltd.,
York Chambers, Market Street, Sydney.


Government Notices.
Pine Creek to Katherine River Railway.
SEPARATE Tenders addressed to the
. Secretary, Department of External
Affairs, Melbourne, will be received up to
11 a.m. on 19th August, 1913, as under: —-
Supply and Delivery of 801 b. Steel
Rails and Fishplates.
Supply and Delivery of Sleepers—
(a) Steel; (6) Timber (Powellized).
Supply and Delivery of Iron Dog Spikes
and Steel Fishbolts and Nuts for
801 b. Rails.
Specifications, etc., will be on - view at
the following offices on and after 26th May,
1913: —Commonwealth Railways, 84 Wi'l-
liam Street, Melbourne; Commonwealth
Works Director, Customs House, Sydney;
and Commonwealth lVorks Registrars,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart, and
on and after 26th June at the office of the
High Commissioner, London.
The charge for each copy of Specification
will be fl Is., and for each Plan 55., which
must be paid before the documents can be
issued.
Tenders should be endorsed “Tender
£ or (as the case may be), and
be accompanied by the deposit mentioned
in the Form of Tender.
JOSIAH THOMAS,
Minister of State for External Affairs.
Port Augusta to Oodnadatta Raiway.
SEPARATE Tenders addressed to the
• Secretary, Department of External
Affairs, Melbourne, will be received up to
11 a.m. on 24th June, 1913, as under: —
Manufacture, Supply and Delivery of
Bogie Goods Waggons, 3ft. 6in.
Gauge.
Manufacture, Supply and Delivery of
Water Tank Waggons, 3ft. 6in.
Gauge.
Specifications, Plans, etc., will be on view
at the following offices on and after 3rd June,
1913:—Commonwealth Railways, 84 Wil-
liam Street, Melbourne; Commonwealth
Works Director, Customs House, Sydney;
and Commonwealth Works Registrars,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
The charge for each copy of Specification
will be £1 Is., and for each Plan 55., which
must be paid before the documents can be
issued.
Tenders are to be endorsed “Tender
cor ” (as the case may be), and
be accompanied by the deposit mentioned
in the Form of Tender.
JOSIAH THOMAS,
Minister of State for External Affairs.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, 3rd June, 1913.
Naval Forces of the Commonwealth.
Vacancies for Naval Staff Clerks.
APPLICATIONS are invited from per-
sons qualified for appointment as
Naval Staff Clerks under the Naval Defence
Act 1910-12. The positions to be filled are
as follows:
Class 11. (Age not less than 25 nor more
than 35 years on 1/7/1913. Salary £2lO to
£3OO per annum)
Navy Office, Melbourne . . .. 2
Naval Establishments, Sydney .. 2
Class 111. (Age not less than 16 nor
more than 25 years on 1/7/1913. Salary
£6O to £lBO per annum)
Navy Office, Melbourne . . .. 10
Naval Establishments, Sydney . . 3
Naval Establishments, Victoria .. 2
Full particulars regarding the above
appointments are published in the Common-
wealth Gazette of 31st May, 1913; and
may also be obtained on application to the
Naval Secretary, Navy Office, Lonsdale
Street, Melbourne, or to the District Naval
Officer, Naval Staff Office, Sydney, Bris-
bane, Largs Bay (S.A.), Fremantle or
Hobart.
Applications endorsed “Application for
Naval Staff Clerk” must reach the Naval
Secretary, Navy Office, Melbourne, not later
than 30th June, 1913.
S. A. PETHEBRIDGE,
Secretary Department of Defence.
Accounts Due by the Government of the
Commonwealth.
ALL persons who have claims against
the Government of the Commonwealth
are requested to apply to the Department
which incurred the liability, on or before
Friday, 27th June, so as to avoid inconveni-
ence to themselves and the Department.
No accounts will be paid on Monday, the
30th of June, after Une p.m.
ANDREW FISHER,
Treasurer of the Commonwealth.
Business Announcements.
LOUIS KAUFFMANN CIGARS
/I
per 100
Imperials - 45/-
Idyllos - - 37/6
Diademas - 22/6
Gran Bouquets 20/6
Infantas - 17/6
Levucas - 15/6
Remit amount with
order and I will deliver
Cigar-s,* all, charges
paid, to any part of
Australia. Money Re-
turned in Full if
Buyer not satisfied
after smoking five or
six Cigars.
Illustrated descriptive booklet mailed to any address on appli-
cation. Only address
54 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE
CARBIDE.
For First-Class
Results use
Best
W~“PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
Stewart Dawson s Co.
(AUST.) LIMITED.
Call and inspect oar Beautiful New Goods.
They will appeal to your artistic feelings , and
delight your sense of value. If unable to calf
write for our new Art Catalogue. Its pages
are filled from cover to cover with beautiful
goods , whose prices cannot fail to attract.
hsd
WATCH
BRACELETS.
A splendid range
just opened from
£5/10/-
With Leather Strap,
75/-
GBs46—Fine Pearl and
Turquoise-set 9ct.
GOLD BANGLE,
47/0
4»
We pay postage on all goods to any address.
Strand Corner, 412 George St., Sydney.
AUSTRALIA: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND: Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin.
LONDON: 73 to 81 Regent Street, W.; and 19 to 21 Hatton Garden, E.C.
79/S.
J?
REXOPHONE
Records for June
€
NOW READY.
10-INCH DOUBLE SIDED.
Price 2/6 each.
Ragtime
Comic
Sacred
Sentimental
Band and
Instrumental.
5354. Passing of Salome Waltz (Joyce);
Gipsy Gove Waltz (Lehar) —
Rexoph'one Concert Band
5362. Pet’s Start All Over Again;
Up She Goes— Whit Cunliffe
5369. Sweet Chiming Bells (Bell Solo) ;
Baby’s Bullaby (Bell Solo) —
Billy Whitlock
5370. When the 801 l is Called Up Yonder;
Shall We Gather at the River?—
Cathedral Quartette
5377. Oh! You Beautiful Doll (Ragtime)
(Ayer);
I’m Going Back to Dixie (Ragtime)
Stanley Kirkby
5381. Casey Jones;
Jimmy Valentine—
By the Two Jacks
5444. For All Eternity (A. Mascheroni);
Maire, My Girl (Geo. Aitken) —
John Bardsley (Tenor)
5445. When Mother Was Twenty-One (P.
Lang);
Georgie Took Me Walking in the
< Park (J. W. Tate) —
Miss Rose Hayes
5446. Will You Love Me Just the Same;
Single and Married (Heglow)—
Mr. Jack and Miss Nancy Charman
5448. Advertisements;
How to Kiss a Girl (On the door-
step) — Will Evans
5002. The Midshipmite;
Nancy Lee— Robert Howe
5604. Eileen Alannah;
Kathleen Mavourneen—
Phillip Ritte
5605. The Silvery Rio Grande
Just a Bunch of Shamrocks—
Phillip Ritte
5608. All the Houses are going Round and
Round;
It’s Mine When You’ve Done With
It— Billy Williams
5612. Love Me and the World is Mine;
Doreen — Phillip Ritte
5613. Where Are the Girls We Used to
Know ?
We All Live at No. 24
Billy Williams
5614. Who Were You With Last Night?
The Wibbly, Wobbly Walk—
Stanley Kirkby
Jackson & Macdonald,
457 Kent Street,
Corner of
Druitt Street,
SYDNEY.
\v» w
&
THE COMPLETE
WORKS Of GUY
De MAUPASSANT.
Issued by
THE STANDARD PUBLISHING
CO. Pty., Ltd.
The Standard Publishing Co. an-
nounce the issue of a complete and ad-
mirable translation of the entire Works
of Guy de Maupassant, the Greatest
Short-story writer in all Literature.
LIFE IN PARIS.
I
In the First Five Volumes the author
pictures with marvellous skill the virile
novelty of country scenes, and the
comedy and tragedy underlying the
whirl of Parisian Life in fashionable
drawing-rooms, in Studios of Art, in
Greenrooms of Opera and Theatre, and
in the Quartier Latin of students and
grisettes.
THE EMOTIONS O F
WOMANKIND.
The second section of five volumes
contains the Romances which caused
Tolstoi to hail de Maupassant as the
supreme Realist and Romance Writer
of his Century. Here are found the
daring explorations of his subtly intelli-
gent mind into the . emotions of the
heart of womankind.
ADVENTURES AND TRAVELS.
The third section •of five volumes
embraces the Dramas, Poems and
Travels, the last-named sparkling with
gems, of description—of Spanish, Italian,
Corsican and Oriental life.
LOVE AND LAUGHTER.
The fourth section contains stories
belonging to every phase of life. Love
and laughter, tragedy and tears run side
by side in these two volumes, the last
of the series.
There are 30 Illustrations through-
out the set, from original drawings by
noted French and American artists. A
number were executed by De Maupas-
sant’s friends —who declined compensa-
tion —contending that it was an honor;
for them to show their admiration in
this way for his works.
The printing has been done from ori-
ginal type and not from plates. A new
font of French Elzevir type, bold and
elegant in design and easy to read, was
specially cast for and used in this edi-
tion. There are good margins to every
page. The books are handsomely bound
in Blue Vellum Cloth, with distinctive
brown and gold title labels.
6cr
We have prepared an illustrated prospectus
of our Standard Edition of De Maupassant
This will be sent Post Free to all responsible
inquirers. The booklet describes the edition
in full detail, and gives particulars of our
special plan, by which the whole 17 volumes
are sent, carriage paid, for a first payment of
TEN SHIELINGS, the balance being payable
by easy instalments. This booklet will be
sent to all book-lovers and literary students
who use the form underneath.
'tbit couptHr
To THE STANDARD PUBLISHING CO. PTY.
LTD., 100 Flinders Street, Melbourne ; or
228 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me, free of charge, and without
any obligation on my part, your Illustrated
Booklet of the Standard Edition of Guy De
Maupassant’s Works in Seventeen Volumes, to-
gether with your plan of easy instalments.
Name
fPlease use this form or a postcard, mention-
ing The Bulletin—63.)
Address


What YOU CAN Do on a
National Acme
Screw Machine
9
Instead of form-
ing or drilling
this piece with one
or two tools the
Acme used seven
tools at once; it
divided the form-
ing aits into two
sections and the
drill inginto three,
and finished the
piece in one-half
the time of a
single operation.
The work is accurate, the time for
its completion is minimum, and
the cost is lowest—per piece.
>
Increase Your Production
40 to 150 Per Cent.
Here is one saving the Acme
Automatic makes on forming and
drilling in screw machine work.
Because of its ready adaptability,
through the use of eight tools at
once., it is the most practical and
economical screw machine on any
kind of milled work in duplicate.
Tools can be aptly arranged to suit
the requirements of 8,9, and 10
operations at 1 time.
The principle has always been
the same —"work all the tools at
once, and make the piece in the
time of one operation or less. The
Acme is built to accommodate work
from Jin. to 2Jin. diameter, and up
to lOJin. in length.
Write to us for full particulars.
(Sole Agents for
Australia),
BENSON BROTHERS
Full Stock of All Classes of Engineers’ .Machine Tools,
51-53 Druitt Street,
SYDNEY.
60 Queen Street,
MELBOURNE.
j
mu (us
JBIOtUTO
Barnet Glass Motor-
Cycle Tyres carry the
confidence of Motor-
Cyclists everywhere.
Mau aoiow
are mm
Ail roach bear tes*i-
inony to the quality
Barnet
Glass Motor
Tyres.
%
u*
vr
BARNET GLASS RUBBER CO. LTD.,
Founders of the Rubber
Industry in Australasia,
All States and N.Z.
231 Clarence Street, Sydney ; 12
289-93 Swanston St., Melbourne.
BARNET GLASS
WATERPROOF O'COATS
I
The “MAS SON” Model
Cat, modelled, and made
with as much care as a
high-pnced suit. At all
Drapers and Storekeepers
MRNErT
EN(HN£miN(j&
PEKMMJttNTO
GLASS
5§
Recognised by Experts as “Savers
of Steam,” and thoroughly depend-
able under even severest conditions.
1 T.r
EDUCATING THE HORSE.
NEW AND IMPROVED SYSTEM.
EDUCATING THE HORSE. SECRET OF HORSE TAMING.
THE WILD COLT. BREAKING TO HARNESS. How to throw
the horse pulling at halter, baulking, cribbing, kicking, runaway horses
how to cure, to teach tricks, to lie down, to sit up. to bow, to dance,
waltz, shake hands, to keep in health, and other secrets worth pounds
that will appeal to every horse loving Australian Price only 17 post
free from AS GLO-AMERICAS PUBLISHING CO . Waterloo Chambers,
George Street, Sydney, 5 S W.
Now is the Season for Clipping Horses
m
i
M
OCR ILLUSTRATION' SHOWS THE
SIMPLICITY OF USING THE
"NUMBER ONE”
HORSE CLIPPER.
A big horse can be clipped in 30 minutes. Yon
mast know that dipping improves a horses
health, prolongs his life, and increases his value.
The “Little Machine that Does Big Work" has
steadily grown in popularity throoghont the
length and breadth of Australia, and we say with
all truth no horse-owner can afford to be without
ace.
We undertake Grinding and Setting the Kt ves
of onr “NUMBER ONE’ HORSE-CUPPING
MACHINE by a special process, which enables us
to guarantee satisfaction.
With Ball Bearings, 40/-
Sole Affects for New Sooth Wales and Queensland,
Holdsworth, Macpherson & Co.
252 George Street, Sydney.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, Handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Tnree hundred
of “ Hop s* : oest drawings. Fnil Bulletin size
Price. 21s.
Moving Pictures
For the Winter Evenings.
We have in Stock at the present time
several Portable Electric and Limelight
Outfits, at remarkably low prices.
WHY NOT GIVE YOUR
OWN SHOWS?
They are suitable for large or small halls,
or may be used in your own home.
These plants are quite up to date, and
are easily explained and controlled.
We have issued a Special Booklet on
them. Please send for one.
—Jk
I
BupfwßSS
..
V
, KELVIN
GENERATING SET
A new Shipment of Silent Empire Biographs and Kelvin Generating Sets
has just arrived.
All of the latest improvements —and all of the old good points.
Send for our Empire Booklet. It contains everything of interest for the
JERDANS LTD.,
393 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Underwear
nadein '
England
trade
The “ BIRD MARK” on your
is a guarantee that the garments ucm
the finest Australian Lambswool JH “ *~ a
and in some qualities Silk s £ .
The garments also have parente- • s
ments and fit the figure perfectly-
The most perfect underwear so.
is the ‘‘BIRD MARK” Merino sw| p
Underw ear, it will stand hard wea. .
weight.
Sold by all Drapers and Outfitters
fTkoiesmlr •»/»-
I. & R. MORLEY and UEO- RRETTLE jc «-
Ask for THE ‘ BIRD MARS ’ ME : ISO C XDERWEAI
Snuffle received a jolt on the jaw m
laide the other day. and all because faked
enthusiasm fell down on its job- -Last
month a citizen was fined thirty pieces of
silver, in default 14 days imprisonment
for having failed to register his son under
the Defence Act. The citizens statement
in defence was : "I am here as a Christian.
To obev this law means that I cannot fol-
low Christ, whose message is to love ttm
fellow man. irrespective of color, creed, or
caste.” Certain denominations passed reso-
lutions regretting the imprisonment, and
svmpathisers awaited the day of the
prisoner’s release. M hen it came the} "<?
on hand with a cinematograph in order that
the Dreadful Scene might be pictorially
transmitted to posterity. The eflort was
about as successful as a skiagraph ot the
Petriana Myth would have been. A vast
concourse of 40 persons, mostly small boy>,
assembled. Certain enthusiasts detached
themselves from the innumerable multitude,
and roUed like a Ghazi charge towards the
martyr. Him they hoisted shoulder high
and carried past the porthole of the camera,
while the countless horde waved and cheered
like the rabble in a theatre when Julius
Knight is complimenting the spot-light
man. It would have been a great picture,
had not the operator discovered that the
machine was out of order. An adjustment
made, the hero was again hoisted, and the
handle was whirled like a simoom. Then
the hero made a speech in which he
declared that he would never surrender
until what he called "conscription" was
abolished. At this stage the operator dis-
covered that his picture was defective,
wherefore the hero was lifted up like the
tables of the law before the multitude, and
the whole scene was re-enacted. This done,
the two score and six melted like flakes of
ice. The film will probably draw ereat
houses in the German settlements of South
Aus. as an incident of the r’ranco-Prussian
war. There is no other hope of its being
taken seriously.
“O. Dashedwild”: Of course, burglars
are annoying brutes. I object as much as
anvbody who is not a policeman to the
noise they make with their everlasting safe
explosions, revolver shots, and so on; like-
vcise I hate the way they lurk in dark
places and wait to be fallen over and
bumped into. But despite the prejudice I
have against them. I felt very sorry when
I read, the other day. that one of the un-
fortunate wretches had been "disturbed by
a ladv visitor.” I. too, though no burglar,
have been disturbed by the lady visitor. I
know her well. She is capable of disturb-
fing anvthing from a torpid snake to a foun-
dation'stone. It is her function in life to
disturb, and to that end she is fitted with
a high, shrill voice and a distracting taste
in hats and conversational topics. She
never knows when to stop, and her ignor-
ance of the proper time to go is just won-
derful- It : s bad enough to be nailed by
one of the species when honestly entrenched
behind a paper in your own-home; but to
be disturbed by one while on a jumpy
burgling job must be perfect Hades. Let
the crime wave roll on!
Temperance missioners. who usually work
the big cities only, because they are out for
dollars all the time, might do a lot more for
the blessed cause by going to the little
towns. The cash collections wouldn't
amount to much, but the temperance
apostles might lay up considerable treasure
in Heaven by inducing the local men to
drop their habit of killing rime at the pub.
Provincial social life reeks of liquor. Bore-
dom flies to booze, and the "best fellows"
come to the worst end. At fl rsham (Vic.)
the other day there was an inquest on an
accountant whose last drink had been
strychnine. A local solicitor told the
coroner that he had often sooken to de-
ceased about his drinking habits. Deceased
had «aid that he eoold not escape from
drink in Horsham, and had sold his business
in order to get am- ng new surroundings.
Horsham ought to form an Anti- Tiddler"
League in its midst, just as the National
Liberal Club < London) was forced to do the
other day.
A Bulletin man claims to have dis-
covered the briefest correspondence on re-
cord. fixing up an engagement It is of re-
cent date. His letter to her ran: —
Marl.
Dear Doll,
May one?
Diet
Her reply to him was in the same frupl
spirit
May 1.
Dear Dick,
One may.
Poll.
The sub-editor recollects an even sorter
correspondence. He wrote his girl—
Dear Flo,
*
Bill.
She wrote: —
Dear Bill,
f
Flo.
THE BLESSED OVERFLOW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Jones ran a drama-house with plays
Bed-roomy, thrilling, gory.
They paid until the picture-craae .
Robbed him of cash and glory.
Then came a parlous time, when he
Moaned his depleted treasuree.
What could he do to draw the crowd?
How beat the opposition?
Fate might have heard him cry aloud
And pitied his condition.
Vet luck seemed harder than before:
A picture-palace came next door.'
“My funeral." cried Jones, “no lo=*
This means! Last act! Quick, curtain!"
But —paraphrasing “G 8.5.~
You never can be certain!
The pictures opened, and the show
Was rushed. Jones got their orerfUmt
He lives on overflows since then,
His house each night they cram it! s jj
The stream of opposition—when
Most managers would damn it—
Jones blesses, and will oft allude
To “overflowing gratitude”!
VICTORIA.
EARDLEY TERSER.


■
. * y,J I • l
\ i ';Va
, «, Vn*
.
\ n:*!
N.V \tbtf;
I h - . - •■'• og
*
/
/
fe v?. a
f
1
.*•’V-// <■•.>*'
■if
>W>
51*: s
HI . J !
m
m
tmvm
. , •■,
Li--
! t
I
as
fe.AS
la,;
\
•i
. 1.,*' 5 :
Pil
II
yv
13
, h "%.
■ M
■ ?4is*
| A ’ *
Sl£» ?
I?' - „
in
•• .v
&l£3f
a»
J l/ni $
3«.«*
«
*S«'
\
m
te#xf?.s¥
■
f\o
tm
Xt
■• . V -
■: ■
••>•■’ A
' : •.* <mm r
• 'm\ t
i
*: , •
- i’iyiiiN ' i
* i*
If " :
V
m, ;-xg. a
r
r &V{
& >*• ,M
-r ■
f. ~, ■ ? »:.
*«»
ffe*:
!
«p- ■ ■ ■ M
£L, . J v*
«*fc;
Jj. |' • , ’ |
if V kg-5;
fell T ’•’; * • &shs
£
&*■ „ if
c.
smmm
wmm
r
■ua
a *
;•■ -. g, : .
wGiPPinQion Hotel-
K/iTnnMßzi i
MTQDMRd
NS
“Carrington, Sir?”
JUST two minutes from the station, handy to all the
sights, and the most luxurious Hotel on the
Mountains.
Yes, you’ll find every comfort at the “Carrington.”
Electrically lighted throughout, and equipped with
every comfort and luxury for the visitor.
A feature is the Hydropathic Department, in charge
of a competent Masseur.
Tariff —£3 10s,. per week; 12s. 6d. per day.
Daily trips to the Jenolan Caves by “ Itala ” Cars.
Return Fare, £2.
CITY OFFICE—IB Imperial Arcade, SYDNEY.


HORSESHOE
SALMON
Every experienced housewife knows the possibilities
. of Horseshoe Salmon. She knows
that the firm, red fish can be quickly and appetisingly
prepared in numberless ways. She knows that it
possesses the flavor and value of the fresh Salmon,
and meets the catering; emergency in the readiest
and best way.
It Has the Flavor that Spurs the Appetite.
Missing Friends.
ILL MR. FREDERICK WILLIAM
▼ ▼ ST. VINCENT STREET, formerly
of Brisbane, please communicate with
Atthow & McGregor, Solicitors.
SHOULD this meet the eye of ALEX.
HECTOR HOPE-KEXXEDY or any-
body knowing his whereabouts (last heard,
at Loxton, S.A., 1911), kindly communicate
with WHISTON BROS., Garfield. Gipps-
land, Vic. Important.
DRADY, CHRISTINA, daughter of late JAMES and
CHRISTINA BRADY, of Dublin, last heard of
January 8, 1877, at Logan Village Hotel, Queensland;
afterwards understood to be at Queen’s Hotel, Towns-
ville, Queensland, will hear something to her advan-
tage by communicating with her sister,
MRS. ANNE COEN (nee Brady),
Tenterfield, N.S.W.
Any friend of hers please communicate.
Public Notice.
THE PATENTEE of Australian patent No. 18092
of June 3, 1909 (Heinrich Carl Werner) for
“Improvements in reinforced concrete railway sleep-
ers” is prepared to enter into negotiations for and
to complete arrangements by way of license or other-
wise on reasonable terms with any persons desiring
to exploit or to adopt and carry on such invention
in Australia. Inquiries to be addressed to W. J.
SPRUSON, Patent Attorney, 91 Elizqttgfh Street,
Sydney, New South Wales. / /ifc
-c
This Smart Suit
for 35(- Post Free
In Snappy Fashionable Tweeds
(Dark Greys, Browns and
Greens), we have op to 40-inch
chests only. They were origi
nally from 42/- to 63 We wi
clear them at 35/- Post Free.
FINNEY’S,
The Drapers of Queensland,
BRISBANE.
IN BANANA LAND
Things have gone so far with the hyacinth
pest that the Government now employs a
dredge to clear the curse out of the Bremer.
Huge piles of stinking weed, 30 yards long,
20ft. wide and 10ft. high flank the stream
and poison the neighborhood.
BEHIND THE SCENES.
COMEDIAN (whose turn it is to appear): “I
can't go on just now—l do feel so funny."
MANAGER: “ Funny! Great Scott, man, go
on immediately and make the most of it
while it lasts."
Warwick now boasts a local biplane, and
one Jones, a young, plucky, enterprising
citizen, circles over tbe town and does an
aerial boundary-ride round adjacent farms
and stations, to the terror of Condamine
cattle and the wonderment of Warwick
yokels. Brisbane still contents itself with
its old pastime of flying kites.
A Long-felt Want.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We also trace Missing Friends, Relatives or
Creditors, for the same initial fees.
— Advt. in Brisbane paper.
Should a creditor forget
You were ever in his debt,
And, departing, dodge your efforts
When you’d trace him,
Just apply, dear friend to Us —
With but little fret or fuss
(We go wrong but very seldom),
j We will place him.
Should you pine again to see
Your belov&d mortgagee
Who has gone and left you lonely
' Far behind him,
Wipe again your weeping eyes,
Trouble not to advertise,
Whatsoever hole he lurk in,
We will find him.
If the interest that you owe
Burn your pocket, brother, know
We will put it where its owner
May be panting:
We will drop upon the track
Of that miscreant grim and black
Who could rack your gentle bosom
By levanting.
If the business folk whose bills
Are your greatest earthly ills
Should astound you by a sudden
Disappearance,
Do not weep that they should go
And forget the sum you owe.
We’ll unearth them and we’ll stick them
For a clearance.
Let the lender and the dun
Who aspire to cut and run
Quite regardless of their clients’
Imprecations,
Know: We are the debtors’ Hope,
And we’ll give them little rope
Till they face the man who’d meet his
Obligations.
QUEENSLAND.
PHILANDER E.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, June 7. 1913.
My Dear TiiARGOiiiNDAH, —
The great excitement this week was, of
course, the Whittingham-Taylor wedding.
The town was full of station people —Dal-
zells, ilewsons, de Burgh Persses, Robertses
and Taylors. Mrs. Norton Grimwade, the
bridegroom’s sister, came up from Mel-
bourne ; and the Harold Whittinghams, and
Mr. and Mrs. Lex Craig, journeyed from
Sydhey. Mrs. Norton Grimwade is as unlike
her newly-wedded brother as it is possible
to be. She is dark, tall and slim ; he is fair,
and short and stocky. She is a lady with an
acute dress sense, and her garments at the
wedding, and, also, at the two last race meet-
ings, eclipsed many another brilliant rag
constellation.
The wedding broke out at two o’clock on
Wednesday, and, like everything stage-man-
aged by Mrs. Lumley Hill, ran as smoothly
as a wind-blown halo along the highway of
Paradise. She inherits her mother’s capa-
bilities in that line, for Mrs. George Harris
was one of the most popular hostesses of a
hospitable day. Coming to the mere bride,
she wore white satin, with a front panel
of silver brocade, and almost innocent
of trimming. The long train, of satin and
brocade, was veiled in ninon, and other trap-
pings included a wreath of myrtle and a long
veil. Diamonds, and plenty of them, were the
groom’s gifts. The five bridesmaids wore
delicately-tinted dressings of white shadow
lace, pale mauve marquisette, and pale pink
ninon. At their summits soared big white
satin sailor hats, trimmed with violets and
pink roses, and in their hands bloomed bou-
quets of violets and mauve sweet peas. The
five maids were Evelyn Taylor, Vera Thorn,
Leslie Harris, Joan Taylor and Olive Dalzell.
Claude Musson, Leo Morgan and Percy
Thorn bodyguarded a palpably- nervous
groom.
After the signing, kissing and confetti, the
breakfast was attacked at Mayfield, Ascot,
which the new husband bought not long ago.
Mrs. Lumley Hill’s racing colors, mingled with
th Q blue and gold of the Whittingham
stables, formed a large proportion of the de-
corations, and every corner was full of
flowers. A four-tier cake was covered with
miniature sheep and other payable stock, and
a tiny King Cleo and Rebel King, wearing
their owner’s colors,- stood docilely on a
field 'of icing. The moon will be pursued
round the world before Mr. and Mrs. Whit-
tingham settle down at Mayfield.
The frocking at the wedding was very
smart; unusually so for this hamlet. Also,
the. uninvited element, which generally does a
war-dance on the Cathedral back stalls, and
demolishes the decorations, was euchred for
once. A large, double-barrelled policeman
kept it at bay, and refused to listen to the
voice of the early bird, even when it cooed
like the gentle flapper.
His Ex., Lady Macgregor, the Vision and
the Paget child sat in an orchestral stall at
the Whittingham wedding, and afterwards
farewelled Mrs. Lumley Hill at the Cathe-
dral entrance, before trapesing to the annual
meeting of the Creche and Kindergarten.
The ball in aid of the Mater Misericordiae
Public Hospital, which was held on Thurs-
day night, was a robust success. The
decorations were beautiful, and consisted
mostly of huge palms, sent down from Nam-
bour. (But. if palms are cut, like these,
indiscriminately, for dances, they will soon
be extinct.) The Governor and Lady Mac-
gregor, Premier and Premieress Denhafn, and
Mayor and Mayoress Neylan, had seats on
the Stage, and seven debutantes bent their
knees; in stiff, little convent curtseys before
the mighty and the not so mighty. The
medical profession and its frilly half were
very noticeable amongst the congregation.
On Wednesday Norma Campbell and Reg
Palmer murmured the customary responses
into the clerical ear of Parson Merrington.
The bridal garment was the usual white
satin, made with long, flowing lines. Blanche
Griffin, in a pretty pink frock, and a black
picture hat, made a desirable bride’s under-
study.
Mina Macdonald and one William Crombie
also pleaded guilty to a charge of matri-
mony on Wednesday, and Ruby Millingen
and “Skeet” Ahern, of football proclivities,
were quietly hitched the same morning at
Dara.
Mrs. Arthur Earl gave a croquet party
on Thursday afternoon, in honor of Mrs. T.
Mills, of England. Mrs. John Reid and
Mrs. Hertzberg annexed the prizes, and the
losers found consolation in an afternoon tea
that was a triumph in its own particular
line.
There wete several privafe hops or heel-
shuffling parties this week. Mrs. J. Love
and daughter Blaine entertained a bunch of
the Younger Set on Tuesday. On Thurs-
day, Huck Lahey and his brothers did ditto,
and on Friday, Colonel Foss-Larsen’s two
fair daughters gave a dance at the Cafd
Majestic.
In addition to various matrimonial shows,
Ethel Buckley, Cyril Mackay and co. are
providing amusement at His Majesty’s. Dur-
ing the week we have been shown the differ-
ence between “The Night Side of London”
and the ditto of Brisbane. It isn’t so much
as some of our Holy Children suspect. This
evening “Cripple Creek” is the hill, and, if
Ethel Buckley can reduce her artificial laugh
output, a large attendance may be confidently
looked for by the management. At the
Theatre Royal, “A Sailor’s Sweetheart” has
made room for the Shop Girl who became a
Duchess. At the Lyceum, the flickergraph
is showing Phyllis Dare and George Gros-
smith in Turkey trots, and morality thrills
of the kind.
The economical craze can be carried too
far. I heard the other day of two sisters,
who purchased one railway season ticket, and
carefully hacked it in half. Each damsel
then tucked her portion into the back of her
purse, and confiding porters looked at the
corners of the pieces morning and evening
for about six months, without guessing that
anything was w r rong. But then a nasty,
suspicious official came along, and the joy
riders now think that it would have been
cheaper to have bought two tickets at the
beginning.
All of which is for your private ear, my
dear.
AUSTRALIA JANE.
Engineer Bradfield, whose design for the
bridge across Sydney Harbor has been recom-
mended by the N.S.W. Public Works Com-
mittee, is a young Queenslander. After
going to the top in the Grammar School at
Ipswich (Q.), he, in 1889, joined the staff
of the chief engineer of railways in Banana-
land, and subsequently passed on to the Ala
State’s service. He had a brilliant career,
meantime, at Sydney University Engineering
School, and was that school’s successful can-
didate when the re-formed Uni. Senate was
elected a month ago.
CASH BASIS.
“Yes, Isaacs, I felt like a rouble ot 'allpennies
before I vent avay .”
“You're lookin' veil again, now. "
“My vord! I feel just like a qvid now."
“Kobbi”: Still another immigrant has
dropped into Bananaland from the home of
the grilled nigger to do mighty things with
the cactus vermin. Queensland’s offer of un-
limited quantities of Land in return for the
clearing of it is the bait which has attracted
this Rasmussen of ’Frisco. He intends to
massacre the pear by machinery, and utilise
the slaughtered growth for its by-products.
Some fine morning Bananaland will wake up
to find that the prickly pest is a mere myth,
I don’t think.
Thomas AYelsby, AI.L.A., adopting the r6le
of historian, w r rites in the Courier knock
the bottom out of Oxley’s alleged claim to be
the discoverer of the Brisbane River. Ac-
cording to Welsby, whose authority is Uni-
acke, three convicts, who got away in a boat,
were the first white men who saw and tra-
versed the Brisbane Valley. This trio had
an insane notion that they were south of
Sydney, and made several endeavors to get
back by striking northward. Oxley found
them near the river mouth, living with
natives, and took them back with him to
headquarters. But Oxley admitted that he
found convicts near the mouth of the new
river, so it can scarcely be said that his
claims rest upon any false pretences; and.
anyway, but for his arrival and rescue of
these heroes (who were hopelessly bushed),
Sydney would have known nothing of the
Brisbane district and its waterways till some
time later.
THE CUBIC LOVER.
S HE: "No, Willy. The man who gets me
must be upright and square .”
HE: “Aw, chuck it, old girl You don't want
a man; you want a piano."
Queensland is slowly waking up. The big
trouble has been that it thought it was safe
so long as it didn’t let the quack and the
impostor pour kerosene into its inflamed
eye. As for glasses, it had an idea that if
they didn’t do any good they couldn’t do
any harm, though misfit s'pecs. may really
be as sinful as 3oz. of red pepper. So far
as the school youngsters are concerned their
eyes are now seen to by the State, and to
give the growm-ups a chance a deputation
suggested to Minister Appel the other day
that all but registered opticians should be
warned off the grass ; and Appel had enough
sympathy with the request to promise a
Government Bill on the subject. Alulga Jim
will probably be annoyed at first when he
can’t buy a pair of specs, for the missus
from the ironmonger, or rake one out for
himself from the pack of Ramh Bugh, the
hawker ; but he’ll see the beauty of the new
idea in time.
“Eton Daid’’: The new 7 Liquor Act is
going to put flesh on the lawyers, even if it
takes a trifle off the Bungs. Like all
Wowser measures it only covers up the evils
it professes to destroy. The clause in the
Act relative to serving women is 71: —
Any licensed victualler or wine-seller who supplies
or permits to be supplied, any liquor (d) to any
female in any bar, or in any room adjacent to a
bar, which is specially set apart for dlinking pur-
poses, shall be liable, etc.
Bung still provides the foaming pewter or
the sparkling soda for his lady customers,
but they get it on the back verandah, or on
the staircase or in the dining-room, or the
kitchen, or any part of-the premises not
"adjacent” to the bar or bars. One enter-
prising wine seller merely removed the
counter from his front shop, and supplies
his women clients in various rooms adjoin-
ing. as usual. His argument is that, as he
no longer has any “bar,” no room can be
held to be “adjacent” to it. The Act is
full of flaws and possible loopholes. Two
appeal cases arising out of the Rockhamp-
’ ton P.Al.’s decisions on renewal-of-new-license
applications will come before the Full
'Court this week —a good start, for a
measure which only came into force,
naturally enough, on April 1 last.


:*1
• V
'
(:*
t m
Si
m
/&
MuiOtU
t «
JW
n
J
nNATSo^
Jr
N°lo
/
«5
: ?'’wxp*±m
■Mmmt
*r: . '■
:
m
w
'JJJM/i
%
j*
SOS*
~J©
3en-
r
a n
r ■i
' S
u
FAVOURITE- IN EVERY PORT
0
iV/k
V
-■
'/MSS*}


Shipping;.
GEELONG
BENALLA
BELTANA
P. and O. BRANCH SERVICE.
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Via MELBOURNE and ADELAIDE.
..j 8001)1 Bid well • '•• !•' > lne
.. (11,120 Simmonds .. .. jjune _8
.. ln,l2oiLingbnm . . Ulnlv IQ
Wireless ins' ailed.
PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION AMIDSHIPS.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
LONDON £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l* 1/S-
Tickets for return, in'a Suez (second-class), P. and
O. Mail, from £49 19s. to £53 11s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne: John Sanderson & Co., HI William St.
Adelaide and Fremantle Agents: Gem M ills & Go.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA E N GLAN D.
i'ltteu W 1 111 Ulincw •* *-* I ** 1 .
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing everv fortnight from BRISBANE. SIDNEY,
MELBOURNE" ADELAIDE, and Fll EM AN 1 LF,
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Mahtix Pi, ace. Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Head Office: 11 Moore Street, Sydney.
(Guaranteed by the State Government).
Has Now No Connection
with the Post Offices.
The Bank has 116 Branches and
500 Agencies throughout the State.
DEPOSITS received from 1/- to £5OO-
-T — from £1 to £5OO,
and 3% on the excess up to £5OO.
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
™?j)ank of florth Queensland
limited.
Authorised Capital .. •• ••
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 3,0,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Pliilp k Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. It. LOVE.
Bankers• THE LONDON COUNTY k WESTMINSTER
BANK, LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES. , „
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and TH K EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
THE
Australian flank of Commerce
n limited.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED ••
PAID-UP (31st December, 1912).. £1,195,2/4
RESERVE FUND £15,000
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS —Sir Wiu.um P. Manning, kt., Chair-
man; George J. Set, Esq., LL.D.; Ciias. 11.
Myles, Esq.; Mark Sheldon, Esq.; Arthur S.
Barton, Esq; Frank N. Yarwoop, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales k Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under tlie Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30. 1921.
Sut.Bcril.edCapil.il fi
Caput.l r.,<i Up ... ... "*;•»” «
All new business since 189 S specially protected.
Directors —Jas. Munro, Esq. (Chairman) ; Johif
Cameron, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. ; Geo. Edw. Running,
Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C
General Manager —M. RALSTON.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON FIXED DEPOSI I S.—
12 months, at the rate of 4 per cent, per annum; 2
years ar.d over, at the rate of 4A Per cent per annum.
HEAD OFFICE - - - - BrZl2>tsA/\ e.
Branches— London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Ae’Ants throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Colonial lljutual Qife
1 assurance society limited
FOR
Mutual Life Endowments and
Ai niiities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Officf.:
418 Sc 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Accumulated Funds, £3,358,229.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £ 5,600,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
trivelHns. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
rmi-F Office for New South Males:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The lion. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G„ M.L.C.. Chairman.
TheHoTl. Bruce Smith. Iv.C., M.r.
ine non. ROgs MIT j,eR. Resident Secretarj.
N.D.L.
NORDDEUTSCHER-LLOYD
MAIL STEAMERS
To Colombo, Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and
Bremen.
All steamers fitted with “Wireless” Installation.
All steamers fitted with Laundry.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE from Sydney
and Brisbane, via German New Guinea, Yap,
Angaur or Maron. Twin-screw Steamers.
Fifr Passage and Full Particulars apply to —
LOHMANN & CO.. General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney ;
OSTERMEYER, VAN ROMPAEY k Co., Melbourne;
H. MUECKE k CO., Adelaide;
L.» RATAZZI k CO., Perth and Fremantle;
TIIOS BROWN k SONS. Ltd.. Brisbane & Townsville.
Bank of fleui Zealand.
SYDNIIY BRANCH :
EQUITABLE BUILDING. GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock
Preference Shares . . ....
Ordinary Stiares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
"P •
Uncalled Capital
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits
£1,000,000
500,000
MO.OOO
ottO,ooo
1,240,587
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji. Great flri-
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
.transacts all other usual Banking business.
Shipping.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
h
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
MEDIC, about JUNE 20.
AFRIC, about JULY 9.
SUEVIC, about JULY 30.
PERSIC, about AUG. 26.
CERAMIC, IS,OOO tons, about SEPT. 24
Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Fares —Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0t0£24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 oto 30 0 0
Melbourne .. •• 1 lu u
New York. Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, etc., from u u
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
Australian Steamships Line
Fast Passenger Steamers
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt.' Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
(Transhipping for
other Queensland
Ports). J
CANBERRA (8000 tons').
From Sydney . . June 14
From Brisbane . . June 17
INDARRA (10,000 tons).
Sydney Only.
From Melbourne . . June 14
BOMBALA (4000 tons).
From Melbourne . . June 18
From Sydney . . June 21
From Brisbane .. June 24
COOMA (4000 tons).
From Melbourne . . June 25
From Sydney .. June 28
From Brisbane .. July 1
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
ISLAND TOURS! i
For HEALTH and HOLIDAYS.
S
5 Weeks in the SOLOMONS —£20.
(A Tour of Rare Charm.)
BEyf
S.S. “MINDINI
leaves SYDNEY,
JUNE 14.
S.S. “MATUNGA
5 Weeks in PAPUA.
11 leaves SYDNEY,
JUNE 30.
apply promptly. accommodation limited.
BURNS, PHILP & CO. Ltd.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital -
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability -
DIRUCTOKS:
£3,253,540
£2,250,000
£3,253,540
£8,757,080
The Hon. Sir Charles It. Macltellar, Kt., M.L.C.
President. 1, ™ t r
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.B.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie Esq. .
The Hon. Sir'Korinand MacLaurin, Ivt.,
Senator The ifon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edrfuhd W. Fosbery, C.M.G.,
M.L.C.
M.L.C.
' AUDITORS: SLeplieard Edgecliff ' 29 Threadneedi* St., EC.
3 3 TBr.°S*;d° A°»cTe, fc ?n S? Au'wlian State., New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London, Agent,
and Correspondents throughout W°rld. Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Rills negotiated
Cable remittances made to, and D™**® d ™"? NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE
and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes M RUSSFX L FRENCH. General Manager.
WORLD.
T H *
& North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
nmSs =l» to BYRON BAY, OOI'F'S HAE-
BOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
&£?«• JS& s^ssss*:
raß to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
Sere connecting with one of the Company s up-to-
tlate liners for SYDNEY, or vice versa
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Bs. 6d. ; second-class rail and. steerage
on steamer, £4 2s. 6d. .
For Guide and all particulars apply.
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited■
£1,750,006 0 0
1,580,000 0 0
1,750,000 0 0
£5,080;000 0 0
Capital Paid-up
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital ..
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen, Esq . . • • Chairman,
lion 11. E. Rater, M.R.C. Deputy-Chairman,
lion 11. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onsi.ow Uiompson, Esq.
Norman Siiei.i.ev, Esq.
Auditors: W. L. Docker, Esq., and E. S. Cape, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dirbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. 11. Massif,.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 13 Bircliin - Lane.
Directors: F. H. Danjrar, Fsq. ; Hon. H. o.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches 'throughout the State cf New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the wot Id.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
+nl PaiH-nn • • • • • • £538.30/
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 159 ’£^
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) ■ - 78,500
£773.861
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Gen Man.. Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: h. H-Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Bow Canncn Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E-C
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
T 1 HE Australian Magazine—-THE EONE
1 HAND. The National Monthly. Price, 6d.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA p£ EUROPE.
*The largest and Finest Steamers trading between
Australia and San Francisco.
Around World and Around Pacific Tours.
Steamers stop 24 Hours at Papeete—the
“ Pearl of the Pacific.”
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
" Zealandia,”
“ Dlimaroa,”
“Riverina,”
“Westralia,”
“Wimmera,”
“Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH k ALL NEW ZEALAND POUTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO
(LIMITED). '
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and Iron,
West Australian, South Australian
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOE MELBOURNE A
ADELAIDE
POET PIEIE
And GULF POETS
ALBANY >
FIIEMANTLE.
Transhippinsr at Fremantle I
to all North Western Ports. )
T.S.S. Warilda, July 5
and August 2.
P itted WirelessTelejrraphv
8000 tons. Carrying
Three Classes. 1,2, 3
and 4-Berth Cabins.’
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports NorOt to Oairns.
S. lnnamincka, June 14
T. Wandilla (8000 tons)'
June 21.
Saloon Passage Tickets are Interchangeable alter
the first Port of call with other inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can lie
ascertained on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YUILL Sc CO.. LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
Via FIJI AND HONOLULU.
CANADIAN - AUSTRALASIAN R.M
LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
AROUND THE WORLD TOURS.
FIRST AND SECOND CLASS.
SAILINGS :
sdh
*New triple-screw steamer, fitted with catrns-de-
luxe en suite, Nursery, Laundry, Electric Lilts, etc.
All Steamers- fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Federal & Shire Lines
Steam to London and Liverpool.
T.S.S. AYRSHIRE.
11,900 Tons. TAGE, Commute.
Will bg despatched from —
SYDNEY, JULY 19.
The Saloon accommodation consists of all two-
berthcabins on the Upper deck, situatecl a.mds
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spaciw
Third-class passengers supplied with fresli
provisions from cool chambers throughout the voyag .
El Rrt?rn l, anVS?i°Trip Tickets issued via Cape
and (or) Suez Route. Prepaid passages arianged.
Saloon. Third-class.
Fares to London.. £lO £l3/13/-to £l7ll*l
Steerage Fares from Brisbane, One Guinea Extra.
FITTED WITH WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY.
For further information, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., LTD., Sydney. .
TURNBULL, MARTIN & CO., Brisbane.
McILWBAITH, McEACHARN & CO. fi ,
Melbourne and Newcastle.
ELDER SMITH & CO., LTD , Adelaide.
H. JONES & CO.. LTD., Hobart
A Whole Week Saved
SYDNEY to SAN FRANCISCO by the
Oceanic Steamship Company
10,000 tons, Twin Screw Steamers, 17 Knot*--
Classed 100 A 1 at British Lloydfc
CABINS DE LUXE with BATHS
SA.U.INGS FROM SYDNEY--;
SONOMA .. T.\ -June 28 I Aug- 23 | Oct 18 Dec. W
VENTURA .. | July 26 j Sept. 2U |rw |
The through trip to
in 29 Days via Samoa, Honolu \ U ' , ENT LINE-,
RETURN tickets good bypao, ■
N.D.L., N.Z .8. Co. and S. S. & A. 00.
Tel. 2282 City. Apply—44 PITT STB _
A.U.S.N. Co.
Splendid Steamship Services
" ,1 from 'W.
Arf.l.id., WestArr_.tr.". »«
IUC )
indarra ”
‘ KANOWNA”..
-KYARRA”
*levuka”
WYREEMA” •
zS “ WYANDRA” ••
.Fitted with Wireless ,
Winter Tours to Cato. J beauty'
Scenery, Sd Tourists will find that the
♦T.S.S.
♦T.S.S.
♦T.S.S.
♦T.S.S.
T.S.S.
7000 tons
7000 tons
6500 tons
6500 tons
4500 tons
*enery, and arran^J
•asy and pleasant. Aft jnt^ rc hangeau* c
Second Saloon Ticke with t i, e Union SS "
;nterstate Companies, particulars on PP
iteamers in .*« Mj ’ see Daily
ion. For dates of jailing
•rKri»«fw.s_g
Agents, M BRIDGE STREbi,
New Zealand Insurant
[!?!’ s^K N a E n/oENEKAU
WM,TH.ESTOOI,OW« ; g«S,»g
INSURANCES EFFECT® ». W«Sr M s ,
FIRE and MARINE BRANC - T STREET, , er s.
ACCIDENT BRANCH. 117 p. ABCT Joint M»» t
j. A. Mikkbtt &A. v >
sd


GLORIOUS TOURS to the
hsd
SOUTH SEA
.... and ....
EASTERN
PACIFIC
ISLANDS
by the Luxurious
Steamers,
T.S.S. TOFUA, 4400 tons, JUNE 17.
T.S.S. ATUA, 3500 tons, JULY 15.
Specially built for tropical climates. All Cabins,
P“? ln £ and Social Hall on upper deck. Per-
e l Ventilation and Electric Light throughout.
Ihe above Steamers sail from Sydney every 28
? a / s 1° FIJI (Lautoka, Suva, LevukT), SAMOA
(Apia), FRIENDLY ISLANDS (Vavau, Haapai,
? a Q n< j AUCKLAND, transhipping thence to
Simmer for Sydney and Melbourne at frequent inter-
Sydney to RAROTONGA and TAHITI (via Wel-
lington), R.M.S. AORANGI, June 14. Passengers
Can hIRTxt a lO days in Tahiti and return bv R.M
S ' S^iT oA ?' A ’ arriving Sydney July 22.
There is also a service every 28 days from Auck-
l a m^ AST f PACIFIC GROUP (RAROTONGA,
and TAHITI. Talune, July 1. (Maheno!
from Sydney, June 25, connects.)
All Steamers fitted with Wireless.
null particulars and Descriptive Booklets on appli-
cation to the various offices in Australasia of the
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., Ltd ,
259 George Street. Sydney.
Hotels, Ac.
EORGE HOTEL,
•St. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 13 - per day.
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel Is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It is
the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
hsd
Fits “Wonder” has
No ‘‘Bromide of Potash.”
Safe, Certain Cure—
-6 Bottles posted 17/2.
Write for particulars—
T. H. MERSON,
16 Hunter St.. Sydney, &
279 Collins St., Melbourne.
UNCLAIMED MONEY & PROPERTY.
DOUGAL’S RfclQlSTtß to N FXT-OF-KIN,
CHANCERY HEiRS, LEGATEES, Ac., &c„ price
5/-,480 pages. Robertson’s,booksellers, Melbourne,
Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, or Dougal A Co.
Claims investigated and carried through
OOUCAL&CO.,ISI. STRAND,LONDON, ENGLAND.
(Kstahliahed over C>o Years.)
/
*y A
ARABI’S CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN-HENNA,
for Grey Hair, the best and cheapest, Is. and 2s. 6d.
(Observe signature, Alfred Ardley, No. 7410.)
Avoid the counterfeiter (same case, same bottle).
Genuine obtainable:—
SYDNEY: MARK FOY’S, ALL CHEMISTS, W.
ASSOMULL and Stores.
MELBOURNE: EDMENT’S, FOY’S, COLE’S, MAC-
LELLAN’S. ALL CHEMISTS, W. ASSOMULL.
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE
h
Made in England. Perfectly
harmless, indetectable,
and guaranteed free
from Nitrate of
Silver and Lead
Salts.
IN VARIOUS
SHADES Raven
Black, Black,
"Brown, Light or
Golden Brown,
Blonde, Chestnut
ant}'Auburn
Price 3/6, posted 3/1t
Directions with every
bottle.
MADAME LEIGH,
23 The Block Arcade. Collins St., Melbourne
sdh
sdh
sd
BIFFO
, MODST-
I ACHE
GROWER
Makes moustache grow
and trains it the way you
wish it to remain after
brushing Waxy appear-
ance avoided. Best for
warm weather. Price 5/6
post free Double size 7/9
Universal Supply Co , 460
George St, Sydney NS W
with'
WAK
/ wirn
'OIFFO
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFICE
hsd
Banft of Hustralta
SYDNEY
e^;£ir»i < ta| 1 *' ransact ’ on °* (SENSRAL BANKING BUSINESS at
JEKfiSSSic
forwarded for collection tankini £°t, 3 ISSUe „ *? any P art of the world - Bil]s negotiated or
the Commonwealth, L K.jJSTIKftS.
_ . SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT
p.p“.*, ssxt xsi tT&&
wlSriSs irr:ii°;?sr , v , 4 d
"fre-aca- Ra,c rr.irar 1 •■ ■" sasssvßfcSK,.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
otters a fieM of^unbounded "tni' 4 ' 6 .' ’ *. n t * le P rocfi ss of initial development, Queensland
settler and to the honest worker P ° ,nvestor ’ the scientist > the tourist, the prospective
Fur Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
Branch riffle. • 111? dp« c . * „ . T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
pitt Street, Sydney, N.S W. fl. MESTON, Local Director.
Dse WELSBACH MANTLES
-o. EVERY KIND OF LIGHT.
Our Illustration shows a new type
of Soft or Collapsible Inverted
Mantle, which entirely overcomes
transit and initial installation
breakage. Write for particulars.
' i .
Vi*.
m
VM
I i ■
*
....
mm
WELSBACH LIGHT CO. LTD. OF AUSTRALASIA
302 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
380 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne. Creek Street, Brisbane. 102-4 Victoria Street, Wellington, N.Z
“ My Name is Simplicity.''’
The British
My name is Onoto. My business
is to simplify writing. My character
(‘quick, reliable worker, very clean,
gives no trouble whatsoever ’) speaks
for itself.”
“ I never take a day off.”
“Why not let me simplify your
writing?
The Onoto simplifies writing because:
i. It needs no filler.—lt fills itself in
five seconds from any ink supply.
*■ I! cannot leak.—Once closed, the
Onoto becomes a sealed tube, and
can be safely carried at any angle.
Get one to-day.
Onoto
British and best.
Price 12/- and upwards of all Stationers,
Jewellers, and Stores. Booklet about the
Onoto Pen free on application to THOS.
DE LA RUE 6r> CO., Ltd., 234 Bunhill
Row, London, E. C., or the Australasian
Representatives, NO I-’MAN BAKER &
LONGHURST, 50 York Street, Sydney.
% »>
N
M,ck T 1
LO«i,q.
fe=?
Gent.’s O.P.
Oxidised Steel
Lever Watch,
15 Jewels,
3 3/-
15 Years’
Guarantee.
If"
V >
Right to theTickf
You wifi save
Time e- Money
by carrying an
fV’R [
WATCH.
Fairfax 8
Roberts Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House
in Sydney,
23 8 25 HUNTER STREET.
I A
IMPR.OVE YOUR APPEARANCE
by using
CAPILLARINE
to grow a handsome moustache. This will fill out your features and
make you look a strong, capable man.
CAPILLARINE will not fail. 30 years’ record of success. Growth
will be permanent. Test it now.
Price 10/6 JAR, Post Free. The C. Moustache Trainer, worn at night,
' ’ " shapes the moustache. 2/6, 3/6, 5/6, Post Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654- George Street, Sydney.
Established 30 Years.
hsd
ABBEY
SHOES
All the well-dressed man looks for
is embodied in Abbey Shoes.
Men who know value, who demand
quality and wear, accept the Abbey
Shoes as the standard of High-grade
footwear.
The Boot we illustrate is a smart, -
made-to-order stvle, All patent
Derby Bal., Leather-lined, 32/6.
Same style in Highest-grade, Dark
Tan, Willow Calf, 30/-
Postage, extra.
Write for a copy of our Catalog.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
I'-.
The
Tod Sloan
Racing Saddle.
The picked fa 'orite in all the Training
and Racing StaUes throughout the Com-
monwealth. Those who are using Uhl’s
“Tod Sloan” cannot speak too highly.
Made from properly prepared Leather
well finished, mounted with Girth, Sur-
cingle, Leathers and Irons.
Write and ORDER yours NOW —be
sure and give weight—the saddle can be
built to any weight required.
A QUAL.
£5 10s.
B QUAL.
£5 .
L. UHL & SONS, Ltd.,
Makers of Good Saddles,
Petrie Bight, BRISBANE.
For the Country Horseman
The saddle here illustrated is expressly designed
for country use, for stock riding, etc., and is built
of the best materials throughout. If any of our
friends are requiring such a saddle they will find
this a genuine bargain.
It has a hog-skin seat, a plated bar-tree, extra
long flaps, with points to buckle below. An economi-
cal feature is the skirt, which extends all round
and thus adds years of wear to the saddle by pro-
tecting its interior from the weather. It has a
deep, “sweepy” seat, 4in. kneepads, nickel-plated
iron stirrups, and double buckle leather girth. The
price complete is £3/15/- Mention of The
Bulletin when ordering will ensure your having a
leather surcingle given in free, and the saddle will
be forwarded freight paid. It is to be obtained
from J. P. Talty, 388 Sussex Street, Sydney.


PILE PILLS.
PERMANENT CURE.
PILLS.
Non-aperient. A sure and speedy cure for all cases
of Internal and External Piles.
Have Cured Thousands of Cases, some after suffering
over 40 years.
Made and sold by ANDREW . MURPHY, WOY
WOY (N.S.W.), Sole Proprietor.
PRICE 31- Per Box, Post Free.
On Sale at All Druggists and Chemists throughout
the States.
Amusements.
-p OW N HALL, SYDNEY.
m
m
mm
pm
TWO
LAST
CONCERTS.
FRIDAY EVE,
JUNE 13.
SATURDAY EVE,
JUNE 14.
FREDERIC
SHIPMAN
presents
n AVID BISP H A M
THE GREAT BARITONE.
5/-, 3/- 2/- AT PA UNO’S.
MELBOURNE : JUNE 20, 21. 24, 27 and 28.
QLARA BUT T-R IMFORD TO UR.
J. & N. TAIT present Madame
CLARA BUTT,
And Mr.
KENNERLEY RUMFORD.
FINAL ADELAIDE CONCERT,
JUNE 14.
SYDNEY SEASON,
JUNE 21, 24, 26, 28; JULY 1,3, 5.
BRISBANE SEASON,
JULY 17, 19, 21.
TOUR —Under the Direction of J. & N. TAIT,
The Auditorium, Melbourne.
PRINtKSVB THEATKU. MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee: GEO..MARLOW LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY’ NIGHT, JUNE 14.
George Marlow’s Dramatic Combination in the
New and Original Play of London Life,
the BEGGAR GIRL’S WEDDING.
POPULAR PRICES.
Plan at Pianola Co.
HKK M.V.5 KsTV’S THEATRE, MELBOIKNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JUNE 14.
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
in the Old Established Favorite,
MISS HOOK OK HOLLAND.
I'lan at Allan’s. Reserved Seats & Dress Circle, 67-
Balcony and Stalls. 4/-; Pit and Gallery, 2/-
HEA T R E ROYAL, MELBOURNE^
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
FIRST PRODUCTION IN AUSTRALIA
of the Great American Dramatic Success,
WIT H I N THE LAW.
PRICES: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-
Stalls, 4/-. Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’s
ITe KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager: William Anderson.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JUNE 14.
Return of the Bert Bailey Dramatic Co.
in
The New and Attractive Australian Drama,
TH E NATIVE BORN.
POPULAR PRICES. PLANS AT ALLAN’S.
THE GLACIARIUM,
MELBOURNE.
EVERY AFTERNOON: ADMISSION 2/-
EVERY EVENING: ADMISSION 1/-
LVItIC THEATRE, Chapel St., Prahraii, Vic.
EVERY NIGHT at 8. MATINIiH, SATURDAY,
at 2.30.
THE FAMOUS “NON-FLICKEH"
PHOTOPLAYS
on the Marvellous “Mack" Screen, together with the
Superb LYRIC ORCHESTRA. &d. to 2s. Plans at
Allan’s. C. M. Read’s and the Lyric Theatre Cafe.
IItIiCTION AM.V iAMATED PICTURES
CD.
Melbourne's Latest and Finest Picture Palace. '
THE MAJIiS'I’IC THEATRE.
FLINDERS STREET, opp. Princes Bridge Station.
Continuous MatinGes Daily from 12 to 6 o’clock.
3d., 6d. and 1/-
Evening Prices: 2/-. 1/6. 1/- and 6d. Plan at Allan’s.
O
L
Tj
Y
Y
M P I A. OLYMPIA.
Si P I A. MELBOURNE.
(Just across Princes Bridge).
WHERE ARE TO BE SEEN THE UNRIVALLED
SPENCER’S PICTURES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS AT 2.30.
EVERY NIGHT AT 8.
%A/E S T’S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
THE BEST WEST’S PICTURES™* BEST
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8. Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays,
and All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictoriai, Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Anv Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to he
‘ seen at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change
every week. Prices —6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen s.
Birch & cabb o l l
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of which
we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Companv of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office : ROTHWELL CHAMBERS, BRISBANE.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
THE COUNT OF LUXEMBOURG.
Played by THE NEW COMIC OPERA CO.
Magnificently Staged. Ideal Entertainment.
PLANS AT PALING’S.
PRICES: D.C and O.S. (Reserved and at Door), 6/-;
Stalls, 4/-; Amphitheatre till 7.30, 2/-; thereafter, 1/-
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee: J. C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
OSCAR ASCHE and LILY BRAYTON
Appear with their London Company
in a Glorious Production of
A MIDSUMMER NIGHT’S DREAM.
Prices : D.C. & O.S. (Reserved), 7/6 ;at Doors, 6/-; Stalls,
4/- ; Gallery t 07.30, i/- ; thereafter, 1/- Plans at Paling’s.
AD EL PH 1 THE ATR E. SYDN E Y.
Direction ANDERSON.
EVERY EVENING, AT 7.50.
THE GIRL WHO KNEW A BJT.
A Production at once Awe-inspiring, Exciting,
Enthralling and Satisfying.
Produced under the Personal Supervision of
WILLIAM ANDERSON.
RESERVED SEATS AT NICHOLSON’S, 4/-'
PRICES : 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/- Early Doors 6d. extra.
AI,A C E ill EAT It IC. SVI)N E V.
Direction : WILLIAM ANDERSON.
OPENING SATURDAY NEXT.
TH E Gr lIA ETE R S.
Complete American Co. of 60 artists in a two-act
Musical Burlesque.
BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
PRICES: 55., 3s. and Is. Early Doors Gallery, Is.
extra.
The eittee theatre
(With the BIG Attractions),
CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
HUGH O. BUCKLER and MISS VIOLET PAGET
announce LAST THREE NIGHTS of
The Present Booming Satirical Success, '
FANNY’S FIRST PLAY.
NEXT PRODUCTION
MONDAY—JUNE 16-NEXT.
BOBBY BUB, NIT.
A play which every father should take his son to see.
VTIONAE AMPHITHEATRE, SYDNEY.
■EVERY EVENING AT S.
MATINEES-s—WEDNESDAYS A SATURDAYS.
BRENNAN-FULLER’S VAUDEVILLE CO.
THE ROYAL BANZAI.
FAMILY OF JAPANESE EQUILIBRISTS. THE
ABSOLUTE LIMIT. IN THRILLING AND DARING
SENSATIONALISM. And Fourteen Other Great Acts.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Theatre.
g PENCE R’S LYCEUM, SYDNEY.
feVERY EVENING.
QUO YADIS?
THE WORLD’S GREATEST ACHIEVEMENT IN
SILENT PORTRAYAL.
8000 ft.—A FULL EVENING’S ENTERTAINMENT.
J hHe OLYm' p I A , SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S 'ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEE—SATURDAY.
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRA.
3d. to 2s. Plan at Nicholson’s (No Extra, Fee).
IITa mb k a tTt eat r e, Sydney.
HAYMARKET VAUDEVILLE HOUSE.
Direction JOS. L. GOODMAN.
TO-NIGHT AND EVERY EVENING.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS, 2.30.
Children Half-price to all parts.
STAR VAUDEVILLE & MINSTRELS.
NEW PROGRAMME EVERY SATURDAY MATINEE.
PRICES : 1/6, 1/- & 6d. ; Saturdays, 2/-, 1/6, 1/-
Doors, 7.15; Overture, 8.
OYD N E Y
GEACIARIUM.
REAL ICE SKATING.
Three sessions daily: 10 to, 12, 3 to 5,
8 to 10.30.
Admission, 2s. Skate Hire, 6d.
Children: Morning and afternoon only,
Admission Is.
Children: Saturday morning, Admission 6d.
’Phone 492 Glebe. DUNBAR POOLE, Manager.
RICKAH D S’ TI V OLI THEATRE.
Personal Direction Mr. HUGH D. McINTOSH.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
LUCY GILLET, the Greatest Lady Juggler on Earth.
THE KREMKA BROS., Novelty and Eccentric Acrobats.
TORCAT & D’ALIZA'S ROOSTERS.
THE BELLCLAIR BROS., Modern Gladiators.
THE 4 QUAINT Q’s, in Humorous Burlesque.
CASSIE WALMER. WELCH & CARBASSE.
THE KEBBLES. KELDINE & SPEED.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
Prices: 5/-, 4/- and II-
OPERA HOUSE. MELBOURNE.
Personal Direction Mr. HUGH D. McINTOSH.
O HANA SAN & CO., in the Original Scena, “A Vision
of Japan.”
THE PE BRUNS, in their Novelty Dancing Act.
GEO. WHITEHEAD, American Baritone.
THE FAMOUS JACKSON FAMILY, Trick Cyclists.
DALE & BROOKES, Musical Comedy Artists.
MISS KITTY DALE, Singing Comedienne.
MADGE TEMPLE, the Fashion-plate of Vaudeville.
Plan at Allan’s. £®"PRICES—4s., 35., 25., Is.
Imperial roller rink,
Foot of William Street.
A REFINED RINIvING RENDEZVOUS
for
FASTIDIOUS PEOPLE.
1" H E
UDI T O
MELBOURNE
V M,
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
The most unique of all shows-
TOKIO TOWN.
Thirty Japanese Star Artists in “Vaudeville nf
Japan.” 01
SPECIAL SCENERY, EFFECTS, COSTUMES
PRICES: 35., 25., Is. PLANS AT ALLAN’S
GIVE ME 15 MINUTES EACH DAY OF YOUR TIME,
says
WALTER BENTLEY,
and I’ll teach you how to
THE DISTINGUISHED
ACTOR,
MAKE SPEECHES,
PROPOSE TOASTS,
ADDRESS BOARD MEETINGS,
SELL MORE GOODS,
STRENGTHEN MEMORY
DEVELOP STRONG PERSONALITY,
CONVERSE WINNINGLY,
ACQUIRE POISE AND DISTINCTION,
and
OBTAIN PERFECT HEALTH,
BY CORRECT BREATHING AND PHYSICAL CULTURE.
Thousands of business and professional people have become convincing speakers in public and in
business by following a Mail Course in their spare time jt home or at their office. It has increased
their power and influence, and put them on the straight load to BIG SLGGESS.
“WORTH MUCH MORE THAN IT COSTS.’.’
Only one address: Ladies and Gentlemen, call or write at once.
301 a PITT STREET, OPPOSITE CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
SPENCER’S MILD INDIAN CIGARS.
SPECIALLY SELECTED WHOLE LEAP— No Inferior Fillings.
If not obtainable from your dealer, refer
PARTRIDGE ABERCROMBY LTD.,
York Chambers, Market Street, Sydney.
Sample Boxes of 50,15/-
LOFTUS MORAN,
231 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
€€
naerwear
Study your Health and Comfort
by wearing only
“ Jason ” Underwear.
The all-pure Australasian wool fabric of Jason gives you the
greatest protection against all weathers, keeping the body at
an equable temperature and making for good health. And
its silky softness ensures your comfort. 1 here is no harshness
about Jason, no matter how often it is washed. And the
guarantee of the makers to replace free any article that shrinks
it sufficient evidence of its thorough reliability.
Jason Underwear is made in all styles and prices
for men, ladies and children. If your dealer does
not stock it insist upon his getting it for you.
In cate of difficulty, write—
Aa34 JASON HOSIERY Co., Leicester, England.
<i>
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
agents for
Murray s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky
Dogs Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated 'Waters and Cordials.^
AGGREGATE BALANCE-SHEET OF THE
WALES, 31st March, 1913.
BANK of NEW SOUTH
LIABILITIES. £ s. d
Notes in Cireula- „ „
tion . . • • 300,129 0 0
Deposits, Accrued
Interest, and „
Rebate . • 34,514,841 16
s. d.
Bills Payable and other Liabilities
(which include Reserves held for
Doubtful Debts and Amounts at
Credit of Investments Fluctua-
tion Account, Officers’ Fidelity
Guarantee and Provident Fund,
The Buckland Fund, and
amounts due to other Banks) . .
Paid-up Capital bearing 6
months’ dividend, £3,000,000;
3 month s’ dividend,
£253,540 ..£3,253,540 0 0
Reserve Fund .. 2,150,000 0 0
Profit and Loss .. 370,584 15 0
-34,814,970 16 1
6,896,695 11 0
5,774,124 15 0
Contingent Liabilities —
Outstanding 4, Credits,
Contra
£47,485,791 2 1
per
. . 1,242,385 5 3
£48,728,176 7 4
ASSETS. £
Coin, Bullion and
Cash Balances
Australian Com-
monwealth Notes
Queensland Gov-
ernment Notes. .
Notes of other
Banks
Money at short call
in London
Investments —Bri-
tish and Colonial
. Government Se-
curities
Investments Muni-
cipal and other
Securities
Due by other
Banks
Bills Receivable in
London and Re-
mittances i n
transit
5,234,628 8
d. £
5
0
0
0
0
9
II
2
3
-21,
312,576
s. d.
9 6
Bills Discounted, and Loans and „u 12 7
Advances to Customers •• ’790 000 0 0
Bank Premises .. • • • • ’
£47,485,791 2 1
Liabilities of Customers and others
on Letters of Credit as per 5 3
Contra . • • • • • - ’ ’
£48,728.176__!_i
Dr.
PROFIT AND DOSS, 31st MARCH, 1913.
Cr.
£ s.
Balance proposed to be dealt with as follows'.
To Dividend at the rate of 10 per
cent, per annum .... .. 156,338 10
' „ Interest at 5 per cent, per an-
num, to 31st March, .1913, on
Capital paid in advance on other
than the fixed dates ~ .. 1,742 7
~ Augmentation of the Reserve
Fund 100,000 0
Officers’ Provident Fund .. 10,000 0
~ Buckland Fund .. . . . • 15,000 0
~ Balance carried forward . . 87,503 17
d.
0
11
0
0
0
1
£370,584 15 0
9J
By Amount from last Account ■ •
~ Balance of Half-year’s Profits after
deducting Rebate on Current Bn l ®'
Interest on Deposits, paying Ante
and Other Taxes, reducing valua-
tion of Bank, Premises, providing
for Bad and Doubtful Debts, and
fluctuations 'in the value of n
vestment Securities; and me u -
ing recoveries from Debts pre\ - jg 11
ously written' off as bad
Dr.
RESERVE FUND, 31st MARCH, 1913.
h
£ s. d.
To Balance 2,250,000 0 0
(Of which £750,000 is invested
in British Government Securi-
ties, and £500,000 in those of
States where we are repre-
sented—in all, £1,250,000.
The balance is employed in the
business of the Bank.)
£2,250,000 0 0
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager,
W. E. SOUTHERDEN, Chief Accountant
By Balance
„ Amount from
2,150,000 « 0
> ro flt and Loss! j«0,
- TI/v n 0
« oCA rtftfl 0
,250,000 0 0
Auditors
s E. LAIDLEY
ALFRED G. MILSON
Bv Balance


T-
%
'
*
IT’S KODAK TIME
ALL THE TIME
Your kodak is always in season. Winter days and Summer, on the hills or
on the flats, touring or at home, in town or country, you can find and will enjoy
the countless opportunities for making beautiful pictures that the ownership of
a Kodak affords.
And remember, Kodak Cameras are so simple as to be readily understood and
operated by beginners ;so efficient that they do not outgrow them. There is no
guesswork, and it is all easier than you may think. The whole of the operations may be
carried oiit in complete daylight, and Kodak Photography as a pastime is quite inexpensive.
There are Kodak Cameras from 21/- upwards. Brownie Cameras, they are little
cousins of the Kodaks, range from 5/- to 50/-
A new Kodak Catalogue has just been issued. It is a
handy volume, fully illustrated, and replete with useful
information. We will send you a copy free on request.
‘ If it isn’t an Eastman
it isn’t a Kodak.”
THE VEST-POCKET KODAK
—the smallest made—dainty, efficient, compact.
Fits a waistcoat pocket or lady’s handbag, takes pic-
tures ijHjin. x works in daylight, and is fitted
with a carefully selected Lens, Ball-bearing Shutter,
Brilliant Reversible Finder, and Auto-time
Scale. Price
30/-
The 3a FOLDING POCKET KODAK
is just the Camera for you. Its pictures measure
x 3^(in.; it has a capacity of six to ten
exposures without reloading, and is beautifully fitted
tnroughout.
the way.
Works in daylight all
Price
£4l lO/
KODAK (Australasia) LTD
Incorporating Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd.
SYDNEY : 370 George Street.
MELBOURNE: "The Block, 1 ’ 284 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE: 37 Rundle Street.
BRISBANE: 78-80 Queen Street.
TOOWOOMBA : Ruthven Street.
TOWNSVILLE: Flinders Street.
BROKEN HILL: 346 Argent Street.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. : 3 Lome Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z. : 6 Mercer Street.
AUTOMATIC
STARTS ITSELF! STOPS ITSELF!
• • &
sdh
sd
tft
that is all
that is needed
to start or stop the patent
*9
AUTOMATIC electric lighting
INSTAEJMTIONI
SIMPLE - EFFICIENT
NO COSTLY ACCUMULATORS
PRACTICALLY NO ATTENTION
Sole Makers,
R. A .Li STF.R*CV L T . D
DURSLEY. Glos.
hsd
FOUR
HIGHEST
AWARDS
ELECTRIC LIGHT PLANT
(Lister-Bruston System —Patented).
This plant generates electricity automatically, and does away with large and
expensive storage battery. Can be started from drawing-room or bedroom.
With the exception of keeping the plant clean, lubricating and filling the
tanks, no attention is required.
Upon switching on the lights the plant works, and when the lights are turned
off the plant stops automatically.
The set is self-contained, and is delivered ready to work. No erection or
foundations necessary; all one has to do is to connect to the wires to the house,
shop, hall, hotel, or town lights, and fill up the tanks with oil. It is exceptionally
cheap as regards lighting costs, the user being able to enjoy all the many advantages
of electric light, at a rate per candle power cheaper than most systems of petrol
gas, acetylene, and other artificial lights, and have current always ready for lights,
fans, cooking, pumps, saws, separators, milking and chaffcutting, sewing and othei
machines. .
Is absolutely safe and reliable ; no smell or fumes, dirt or smoke,
LET US SEND YOU FULLER DETAILS.
Made in Sizes from 20 to 5000 LIGHTS.
AGENTS-
New South Wales: W. G. WATSON g CO. LTD., 279 Clarence Street, and
426-430 Kent Street (4 doors from Town Hall), Sydney.
Queensland: WINCHCOMBE, CARSON LTD., Creek Street, Brisbane.
Victoria: SUTHERLAND g ASHMAN, Flinders Street, Melbourne.
■
k'
(frr
T
Ml
WMMMMOIa
rm
.22 Caliber
RIM FIRE CARTRIDGES
The Red w Brand
It's very annoying to have
misfires, squibs and “sissers”
among your .22 caliber cartridges,
especially when you are about to “bag”
something. You won’t have this experience
if you shoot nothing but Winchester .22
caliber cartridges with the letter “H” on
the head. These cartridges are made in
the most complete plant in the world by
perfected automatic machinery, which in-
sures uniform and correct priming and
loading. They may be had with either
solid lead or hollow point bullets. Win-
chester smokeless cartridges with grease-
less bullets are very popular, as they are so
clean to handle. They do not foul the bore.
iU DEALERS SELL
WINCHESTER CARTRIDGES


BABY LOVES
HIS BATH
uticura
Cum
ISO.
n
8
31
WitH
CUTICURA
SOAP
No other keeps the skin and scalp
so clean and clear, so sweet and
healthy. Used with Cuticura Oint-
ment, it soothes irritations which
often prevent sleep and if neglected
become chronic disfigurements.
Millions of mothers use these pure,
sweet and gentle emollients for
every purpose of the toilet, bath
and nursery.
Cuticura Soap and Ointment are sold throughout
the world. A liberal sample of each, with 32-page
booklet on the care and treatment of the skin and
scalp, sent post-free. Address R. Towns &. Co.,
Dept. D, Sydney, N. S. W.
Puts Stomach,
Liver and Bowels
in Fine Condition
To promptly end the misery of consti-
pation torpid liver, sick headache, indi-
gestion, dizziness and nausea, you must
use CARTER’S LITTLE
LIVER PILLS. They
never fail —that’s why
millions use them.
Vim,vigor,vitality,
and a clear com-
plexion are the
result of their
use. You
need them.
Carters
WITTLE
lIV E
IVER
PILLS.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
The
GENUINE
must bear
signature
hsd
9
Her Youtfc
T)rß.AfcLEN’j
11., 14-S.AJ
Mexican
WALNUT STAIN
for Grey Hair
IS THE
only permanent and really satisfactory
ONE SOLUTION Hair Stain
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES
The Best BtisH Doctor of All!
If you’ve got a poisoned hand, a sore leg, an abscess,
a boil, a running sore, Eczema in any form, Barcoo
rot —or if you’ve a wound that won’t heal or a
jagged cut, all you need
have to cure it is a tin of
Wilkinson’s
Eclectric Ointment.
Price 1/6, Posted 1/9. J. WILKINSON, Chemist,
K.E.8., Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane
ASTHMACURE
GHIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty In expectoration. Asthma, NervonsCoughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
- by GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN ClGAR-
relieved
ETTES.
Bold by all Ch rmists.
Australian Magazine. THE LONE
| HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d.
HOWTO
GROW HAIR
A Simple, Safe and Reliable Way that Produces Surprising Results
NEW PREPARATION CAUSES BIG STIR AMONG HAIR specialists
%
I*
r-
SB
h
The above cleartv shows Results from a Short Course of my True Hair-Growing Compound
10,000 FREE TRIAL BOXES.
Those who are troubled with falling hair, dandruff,
baldness, itching scalp, etc., know full well the
humiliation that they cause. There is no need, how-
ever, of such conditions. These troubles can be
quickly overcome by my True Hair Grower.
I am not an advertising quack, but am a business
man. My hair began to grow thin about the time
I reached the age of thirty. When I had reached the
age of thirty-five the top of my head was quite bald.
I had considerable pride, and sought for something
to cause renewed growth. I invested in every pre-
paration that I could see or hear of, and here let me
say that not only did I try all the English so-called
restorers, but those of Continental Europe. I also
visited specialists. My experimenting cost me many
sovereigns and considerable time —yet the hairs came
not. I had given up the idea of ever growing hair
again. One afternoon, while enjoying a brief busi-
ness respite by an Alpine trip, I fell in with an old
collegiate chemist, whose hair was particularly plen-
tiful. I jokingly remarked that I wished he could
spare some of his hair for my benefit. This lead him
to tell me that he understood the human hair as well
as a good dentist understands teeth. He wrote out a
formula, and suggested that I have a quantity of the
compound prepared. I did this a few days later. |
was astonished to see the hair coming forth after
several applications, and within six weeks my head
was covered by a firm, yet soft, black growth of hair
Since then the hair on my head has been as luxuriant
as when in my school days. Having arranged for
the legal right to do so, I have for some time been
privately selling this marvellous hair-growing com
pound. I hold over one thousand letters from people
who have actually grown new hair through the
medium of my true hair grower. I do not pretend
to say it is the only hair grower in the world—l am
not interested in decrying others—but I do assert
that it is the most reliable, and in the end by far the
cheapest.
Baldness, Dandruff, Itching, etc.,
Free Trial Coupon.
Cut out this Coupon and send with 3 stamps
to cover postage, etc., and I will immediately
post a large trial box of my True Hair Grower.
John Craven Burleigh, Dept. 7, 107 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/I}, 2/9 & 4/b. Made in England.
•£flUoK t f ne
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks it
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ABTHMA, and In
'he oouffh of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acts like a charm In
DIARRHCEA and simple DYSENTERY.
Because the Body-Building Power of Bovril has been
proved to be from 10 to 20 times the amount taken.
*
Choose a “ Swan.”
The comfort of it, the sureness, ease,
sweetness —each and every character-
istic deserves notice. The “Swan”
Fountpen pleases the most impatient,
exacting writer —those who expect
more out of a pen than others have
given. We can satisfy such and win
their enthusiastic recommendation.
Every hand suited exactly.
"• “SWAN SAFETY
Can’t Leak,
Blot, Miss,
or Scratch !
Catalogue free on request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London and
Australian Branch (Wholesale only): J. A. BURKE.
Sold by all Stationers
and Jewellers.
Branches.
5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a fleorge St., Sydney.
ii
m
ii
m
II
ii
m
m.
ii
ii
ii
ii
II
ii
ii
ii
ii
ii
ii
ii
ii
ii
ii
ii
ii
ii
ii
II
ii
ii
ii
ii
Benger’s Food is specially pre-
pared to build up the weakened
digestive system, and to pro-
mote a high state of bodily
nutrition while doing so.
It is the only food enabling rest and regulated
exercise to be given to the digestive functions.
Benger’s is not a predigested food, nor does
it contain dried milk. It is made with fresh mule,
and forms a dainty and delicious cream with a
delicate biscuit flavour. Patients never tire ol
•T*l«
but, on the contrary, continue to enjoy it
Every householder should possess a copy of “ BENGER'S FOOD.
AND HOW TO USE IT—FOR INFANTS, INVALIDS, AND TH*
117, PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.B.W.
Boon 7_K(„vtr'sFood is sol' in ti a by Dru<r is'*, etc., rwrywArr^..-.-;
/*
Food]
Business, Bobbery, etc.
“Ivory”: “Mimosa” (B. 8/5/’l3) quotes John
Cooke, the meat exporter, as saying that Queensland
beef Jias deteriorated, and “Mimosa” puts it down to
the fact that the Bananaland cattle-raisers do not
import fdney bulls from Great Britain like their
neighbors of Argentina. He cites as proof the steady
fall in weight of meat-works carcases. There cer-
tainly may be a decrease in weight, but it is not fair
to put that down to deterioration of the breed. Ten
years ago drought went through the Queensland herds
and drafted them very thoroughly. Since then, cattle
have been fetching good prices, and cattlemen have
been sending every hoof they could get to market.
The consequence is that it is almost impossible to
dig up a bullock with any age on him, and, as the
saying goes, they “Have to go into the calf-pen to
make up the mob.” There are first-class bulls in
Queensland —a lot of them probably just as useful
sires as the dolled-up cow-husbands which the flash
S. American loves to bid the fancy prices for. As
for the S’African breeder refusing to breed from
Australia’s best —well, who wants him to? And
where did the story come from?
“Kobbi”: Another “best ever.” A bullock’s over-
coat this time, sold at Brisbane, was bought for the
local Kedron tannery at 14fd. per lb., which worked
out at £4 2s. 6d. for the whole suit. Brisbane
bullock-punchers sit on the top rail of the saleyard
fence and say it’s a record for Australia —and it can
stand at that until Adelaide resurrects the famous
hide that Laughton sold years ago. Then the two
can fight it out.
“0”: “0.K.” inquired bitterly, the other day,
why the Federal postage stamp is printed on differ-
ent paper to the State ditto of yore, and why it is sc
much more tearable and generally unsatisfactory.
As a matter of fact, the paper is the same. But it
was formerly imported before it was gummed. It
| is now imported with its gum-coating already laid
1 on. Under the new conditions the stamp'ng seems
to impoverish the paper. The Department saves
[ time by this arrangement. On the other hand, the
I public collectively loses about 25,000 hours a year
| in pulling off the stamps very gingerly and in stick-
ing broken portions together on envelopes.
S. Aus. Chamber of Manufactures shows a proper
Federal spirit in connection with its next flve-yearlv
Exhibition, to be held in 1915. The sub-committee
appointed to arrange preliminaries had recommended
that, as before, the show should represent S. Aus-
tralian-made goods only ; but a big majority, headed
by wine-makers C'leland and Seppelt, decided that
it should be All-Australian.
“Hamer”: Sydney just missed a grisly industrial
upheaval the other day, when the undertakers’ em-
ployees threatened to down remains, as a protest
against the alleged “victimisation” of a couple of
members of the Planters’ Union, or whatever it is
called. Ultimately, the trouble was fixed up, and
the strikers agreed to bury the hatchet and anything
else that came along. Which was all to the good of
the public. Insufficient gas is bad enough, so far as
the harassed householder is concerned, and too few
trains are even worse, but too much unburied corpse
would be unendurable.
“Quarter Single”: A new Yankee device, which
has extended to Melbourne, and, for aught I know, to
Sydney, is known as the “sky lease.” When an
intending tenant in New York desires room in a
building already full, he offers to superimpose at
extra storey or two at his own expense if the ownef
will give him a reasonable lease. The extra storeys
eventually fall into tl>e possession of the owner of
the building. An instance of this in Melbourne
occurred at the white and green Auditorium. All
the let before its bridal shroud of scaffold-
ing was removed. Then a business woman, in con-
sideration of a 10-years’ lease, put an additional
floor on the top of the building, and is now in occu-
pation of her eyrie. Melbourne builders prophesy an
expansion of the practice, and so long as the house
is builded upon a rock, and not, like the City Fish
Market, upon the shifting sludge of the Yarra’s bank,
the plan seems at least safe enough. But it will dot
Melbourne with apparitions like the Flatiron bu;ld-
ing, and those who fall from the top windows will
have such a long way to drop that they will be only
half-way down when the Day of Judgment looms up
on the pavements below.
* * * *
“Mr. Ocky”: The Western District of Victoria
possesses the most furious man just now. He is a
big, well-meaning son of the soil, who up till a few
days ago had scarcely stepped beyond the farm. With
joyous spirits he entered a railway carriage for a
holiday jaunt, and soon got into conversation with
a very nice young man. One thing led to
another, until at length the nice young man
gave his name. It was Victor Renwick.
His initials could be seen stamped on the patent
footwarmer in the compartment. He was, of course,
the inventor of this footwarmer, and was willing to
sell it to the farmer-chap for 255. The unsophisti-
cated Westerner was quite taken with the goods,
and, thinking it misrht be an acceptable present for
Dad and Mum at home, paid cash for it. The
N.Y.M. had to leave soon after that. When the
wheat-grower reached his destination he struggled
out with his purchase, and had a great altercation
With a porter who told him to put the thing back.
He learnt then that Y.R. stood for Victorian Rail-
wavs. It had never occurred to him before.
THE SMOKER'S PROGRESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A year ago, with careless, lordly “mannah,”
He’d light and throw away a fat Havanna,
Half-smoked, to show he could afford to waste
All that is nauseous to a man of taste.
Next time we met, he smoked and talked “Man-
illers,”
And said he found they’d much more fragrant
fillers;
And, as he gave the weed a secret pinch,
Observed, “They’re best about the last half-inch.”
A month ago, I thought his air was colder,
As I remarked he’d taken to a holder ;
And coarsely he declared that “any fool
Knows that a holder keeps a bumper cool.”
To-day we met upon the Balmain ferry,
And he was pulling at a penny cherry ;
Said he, “They smoke as sweet as blanky nuts” ;
I answered, “What?” and he responded, “Butts”!
MAJORCA, SPAIN.
WAIF.
HUNG UP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Yes, the gold is there in plenty—it’s just waiting to
be won,
But the claim is standing empty, baking in the
summer sun :
Sad and silent hang the stampers, dancing shank
and whirling cam,
For there'll be no work or wages till there’s water
in the dam ;
Ceased at last the clinking music of the hammer on
the drill,
And the world’s a drear Sahara till there's water on
The Hill.
Now the roar that waked the echoes as it told by
day and night
That there still was corn in Egypt and a bit of
gold in sight—-
Noise that spoke of rich stone crushing ’neath the
stroke of shoe or die
Comes no longer through the darkness where the
thirsty shadows lie;
Never comes the engine’s pulsing, never call from
mine and mill —-
All our world is cashless, beerless, till there’s rain
upon The Hill.
VICTORIA.
QUIDAM.


ARE YOU
DEAF?
hJ! de , af ’ or , goi . ns deaf - - vou Wlll be glad to
hear of a simple and scientific device which restores
hearing, no matter how old you are. No mystery or
iusr^ow^y* l r deBcHfce jt fully and yS exp y ,ain
tiers It? Y ° U use s P ecta des as sight magni-
-2!”**""1“ same way you use this sound magni-
fier to hear better. Unlike spectacles, the Wilson
%l™ m Z° enBe Ear -P r I l , ,rris are invi sible and comfort-
° ° ne Can . te you are wearing them. They
, ea , r nerves by taking the strain off them—the
r - Ving j to hear indistinct sounds. What a
mlrfi +h 3Ve £ or i e r, with that tiring strain. Being
made of the softest Para rubber they cannot be felt,
even when the head rests on a pillow. For the same
[® as °n> a blow on the side of the head will not hurt
the ear. They protect the tender inner parts of the
ear, tnat are so sensitive, from cold winds, dust, sud-
den and piercing sounds.
So that you may clearly understand how the Sound
Magnifiers restore hearing, we give an illustration of
one as it lies in the ear. You will notice that the
bound Magnifier is shaped like a trumpet, and so con-
veys even the faintest sounds right to the natural drum.
Being of the softest rubber, it cannot hurt the ear.
It fits the orifice of the ear
with precision and comfort.
The division that runs
across the mouth is to al-
low the removal and inser-
tion of the Ear-Drum, and
to brace it.
The shape of the Wilson
Ear-Drum has been chosen
after years of experience as
the best adapt-
ed to carry the
faintest sound.
Of course, if
you have lost
the h e a r i ng-
nerve com-
pletely, or were
born deaf, we
cannot pretend
to cure you. Only a miracle could
do that, in spite of some of the
absurd claims made to-day. But
of you can hear the faintest sound,
d ° " ot despair You will never
regret trying the Wilson Ear-
P™™ B - J lave letters t 0 show
f ™ m deaf people in Australia
a ," d New Zealand, who have been
cured, and you can be cured tnn v *—
the Ear-Drums day and ni-ht and 7u U 'H ay wea
ha"rsp e y y f U j h fi ,r them Cw,
least danger. inSert 3nd remo ve m them without'th,
vjJo* P Thi« inr.l'd 1 (the . fee ,or a doctor’s single
snidin f • ’ nclu des a pair of drums (they are onl\
alerter P AfW tu fl £ e < nlcl ? el remover, and also ar
chase a first * palr 18 bought you may pur
cnase a single drum at any time for 8s hut the
pair you get at first will last quite two years D
on*triad Pa,r ' We do not send them out
firdlr ]’ dso they are never secondhand. Use the
Order form below, and the Outfit will be sent you
at once, with the fullest instructions. Don’t deiav
but have the comfort of good hearing as soon as you
e<9
ORDER FORM.
STAR NOVELTY CO..
103 Arlington Chambers,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please send me an Outfit containing a pair of
Wilson Common-sense Eac-Drums, an Inserter and a
Kemover, for which I enclose One Pound.
Name
Address
NOTE.—Send Money Order or Postal Note. If a
Bank Note or Sovereign is sent, von must register it.
fHinging for Mores'
yy
/A
Bird’s
Custard
stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess.
Has stood the test of time
Over 70 years ’ success.
FELT HATS
7/6
i!
"THE TRAQUAIR ”
Smartest Shape of the Season —an
ideal hat for aotnmn & winter. Worn by
women & girls everywhere. In black ::
white, navy & colors. Sent post free any-
where on receipt of 7/6 postal note.
MILLER’S
270 Bonrke St., Melbcnrne.
118 Randle St. Adelaide 195 Pitt St. Sydney
‘MON
aiiiM
POST
FREE.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849. ,4 ... J
•or Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehol
City or Suburban Properties, or o
3 a
of Governmsnt DebentufeB° d |nscribed a Bfock Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
tralian States or New y o«N t -?;«»
upto2oper O cenTofthe 0 " all ° W '?£ B °"owers the privilege of repaying
DiRECTORS-The Hnn 7 w u t '' year ’ Wlthcn,t noci ce or payment of any fine.
Hon. James Burns, ML C • The 6 Hon R j’ BlaeV^MTS on ' J ' T ' Walker > Deputy-Chairman ; The
Esq., K.C. ; Alex MaeCormiek KVa M h ri „ * I°' 5 The H° n - F - E - Winchcombe, M.L.C. ; Adrian Knox,
HEAD OFFICE :87 PITT STREET SYDNEY O Mana * er and Actuary : Richard Teecc, F.1.A., F.F.A.. F.S.S.
b IKEEr, SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
The World-wide Whwkey.'
Burkes iu
WHISKEY
A Whiskey of unique value,
mellow, light and digestive.
E. -& J. BURKE, Ltd.
(Paid-up Capital, £1,100,000.
Established 1849), are by
far the largest Shippers of
Bottled Whiskey from Dublin.
Celebrated
Cascade
Ale
*
IN BULK
and
BOTTLED.
HU
r!MNi
•«< IVn
CALL
FOR IT
on ALL
Occasions.
Head Office:
156 Collins St., Hobart
AGENTS:
Melbourne:
Taylor, Ferguson &
Co., 127 tying St.
Sydney:
D’Arcy & Co.
Brisbane:
Burns, Philp & Co.,
Ltd.
Maryborough:
Corser & Co.
Rockhampton :
Walter Reid & Co.
Townsville:
Burns, Philp & Co.,
Ltd.
Cairns:
Burns, Philp & Co.,
Ltd.
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball-
Bearing: Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the larsrest and most successful rinks in America
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancv. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks!
Richardson Ball-Bearing Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago, U.S. A.
RICHARDSON
CHICAGO
Wa t e rin an’s
(Ifeal)
Fount ainPen
EFFICIENCY.
Commences writ-
ing at once, no
shaking required. Patent Spoon-feed ensures
steady, sufficient and controlled flow of ink
from barrel to pen-point. Iridium-tipped
gold nibs to suit all hands—choice as varied
as that offered by steel pen manufacturers.
SIMPLICITY,
Only five parts in
Waterman’s Ideal
—Barrel, Spoon-feed, Point section, Nib
and Cap. Each part simple, efficient, and
essential : together forming a simple,
efficient and essential Fountain Pen.
AN IDEAL GIFT.
In 4 types —Regu'ar and Self-Filling,
12/6 and upwards; Safety and
Pump • Filling, 15/- and upwards
Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, LTD.,
Koh-i-noor House, London, England.
(AUSTRALIA —350, George St, Sydney.)
DM
tot*
I do use WRIGHT’S
Antiseptic Myrrh
SOAP
r
So have Beautiful lee h
and a Sweet Breath. [re-
serves the enamel. Heals the
gums. Removes tartar. It’s
entirely free from acids, and
all smart dentists recommend
its constant use. Your address
' «r:ii u * . , on a Penny postcard, sent to
us. Will bring you a trial sample free. Large box sent,
post paid, for One Shilling in stamps. Look out!
1 here are imitations. Sold by Chemists everywhere.
CHAS. WRIGHT CHEMICAL CO.
Detroit, Mich , U.S.A.
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
Over 30 years ago the late Lord
iJeaconsfield testified to the benefits
he received Irom Hunrod’s
Asthma Powder, and every
post brings simdar letters
, to-day.
*S
no
b
ASTHMA
tm
P
ASTBNA
Famed for 40 Years.
Best remedy lor Asthma,
Hay Fever, Hose Cold, or
ordinary Cough.
Seed in Tins by ail Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
▲ ▲ A JL
aaa.aaa.aaaa
►►►
M.B. FOSTER’S
BUGLE
sdh
BRAND
<Bm
THERE IS NO
OTHER JUST
AS GOOD.
There’s Sauce for you!
Montserrat
Lime Juice Sauce suits
all tastes, and owing to its
purity, adds a zest to food,
without upsetting the most
delicate digestion. It helps
your food to feed you.
Jl»k your Storekeeper for it.
Guaranteed free from Preservatives.
m
mimii
mm
Kegisrered
NOTE the SLOT
The Best Tooth Powder
in The Best Container
Jewsbury& Brown's
Oriental
Tooth Powder
6 W7-
in the
United Kingdom
All the Family may
use the same box.
WHOLESALE AGENTS IN SYDNEY
Messrs. Elliotf Bros. Ltd.
. , F.H Faulding & Co.


SPORTING RIFLES
of Reliability and Accuracy.
2mSS
Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906 Model,
16 shot, 20in. round barrel, plain trigger, straight grip, slide action,
for 22 short, long or long rifle cartridges. 42 6
gS&raafi
••WINCHESTER,” Single Shot, 1902 Model,
22 Cal. Rim Fire, peep or V sights, scroll
trigger guard, steel heel plate,
weight 2flb.
18s . 6d.
The above Rifle, fitted with sporting ladder rear sight,
Postage—ls. 6d., N.S.W. ; 2s. Bd., Inter-State.
20
"THE MAINE
Pifle
ghea/ing Qitle A parr.
" THE MAINE ” S.S. Rifle
designed for 22 short, long, or extra long cartridges, Rim Fire. It
is a take-down, and can be taken apart easily and quickly, by simply
unscrewing the thumb-screw located underneath the fore arm. ahe action
used on this rifle is of the safety bolt type, and is exceedingly simple, con-
listing of very few parts. The barrel is round, 18in. long, bored and riiied
with the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed
accurate to 300yds. ; weight 31b., fitted with plain V back
sight
Or with Winchester Sliding Sights to 300yds.
Postage on one Rifle —1/3 N.S.W. ; 2/2 Inter-State.
12 6
/5/-
We do ALL
KINDS of
RIFLE
Repair Work
Stud for out p r , cc List
of Guns, Rifles,
Ammunition, etc.
Post Free, Anywhere.
-r
BAYARD SEMI-AUTOMATIC RIFLE,
22 cal., 19in. Round Steel Barrel, length over all
38£in., weight 3flb., handles short, long
or long rifle cartridges,
25-
Postage—ls. 6d., N.S.W. ; 2s. Bd., Inter-State.
sd
99
Stevens’ “ FA VORITE,
22 W.R.F., or 22 Calibre R-ini Fire, half-octagon 22in. barrel,
case-hardened frame, solid breech block, take down action, open front and rear sights
weight 4£lb. Postage—l/9 N.S.W., 3/2 Inter-State.
We can supply the above Rifles fitted with Beach Combination Front Sight and Vernier Rear, 37/6
25 or 32 Rim Fire Calibres, same description as above, 2/6 each extra.
25/-
Siß
“ Winchester ” Single Shot
Rifle, 1904 Model,
_ for short or long rim fire cartridges, 21in. heavy
round steel barrel, plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight, length of rifle over-
all, 37im., bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip,
which will not tarnish ; weight, about 41b.
Postage—l/9 N.S.W. ; 3/2 Inter-State.
245. 6d,
MICK SIMMONS LTD.
Head Depot: Haymarket, Sydney, N.S.W.
Branches : CITY, SUBURBS and NEWCASTLE.
hsd
The First
Successful
Self-Filling,
Fountain
Pen.
ec<jj
mm
Always the Leader, Without a Peer.
Every shop should have our line of Automatic Self**
Filling Fountain Pens. “The A. A.” is the one
pen for which there is no substitute. Its self-filling
feature is unique and so far superior to any other on
the market that it is the pen for all.
Fitted with i4kt. gold pens, any style or size, in plain, chased
or mottled holders, or mounted in sterling silver filigree, gold-
filled and mother of pearl— handsome and serviceable.
The cut herein also shows the newly patented “A.A.”Clip
attached to the cap of the pen. It holds perfectly firm, and
can be attached almost instantly.
If you cannot secure “The A.A.” Automatic Self-
Filling Fountain Pen, with the “A.A.” Clip at your shop,
write for prices to
RYAN, LEWIS (SL CO. Pty., Ltd.,
521 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sole Agents for Australasia and New Zealand of the
ARTHUR A. WATERMAN & CO., New York, U.S.A.
NOT CONNECTED WITH THE L. E. WATERMAN CO. [i
TYPEWRITERS
l]nden«D
a si
Everybody should own a typewriter*
The following machines have been
exchanged for Underwoods, conse-
quently will be sold at lowest prices,
All are thoroughly overhauled, and
are guaranteed.
hsd
Remington No. 8
Five No. 7 Remingtons at
£9 each
One Smith Premier
One No. W Yost
£7
£7
£6
WE HIRE TYPEWRITERS AT £t PER MONTH.
STOTT & UNDERWOOD,
Stott’s Chambers. 70 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
SCHUTE, BEL]* & Co, Ltd.
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial
OFFICES : 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, as.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zolas,
including Nana, Is Gd each, posted. Educating the
Horse Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Datb Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, as 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
/Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is 3d. Parlor Tricks and
Games Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, Is 2d. All The
Bulletin series. The Yoke by Hubert Wales. Is 3d
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, lllus., I s. Beauty s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler s Science of Life.
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Pate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
nested S.ANDOW’S BOOK OF STRENGTH, 38 posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris Is 6d. History of the Kod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, Us Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Gliliy (Blatch-
fnrdl 9d The Art of .Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and' My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train tor all SroRTS, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses.
is 3d Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
*nd Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowlers Human Science,
10s 6d. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is 6d.
m
m.
i
■
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FKEE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20Ui Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED, Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.-K
SW“
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Plano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is: post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Gd.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of . Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. trench
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers or Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes. 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
Ail these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it,
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others ana
save your cash. jet Established 2o 1 eats.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot —
67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
L3E GOT FROH THIS ADVT
Write lor my
j)ig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS MONEY OKIiKK,, 0t ‘
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COI'NIK .
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POSt NO DUT •
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SbNX_
How to Mark Up, 111ust ratedGu.de to -lie |t»S
posted. New Tricks wjthCards, Is. ***™s d - k Min-
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d post. Dr- ftL
wipe’s Handbook, 92 practical
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Mam EasLA.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions
Is 2d. Guide, to Auctioneering,
History Court of England, Ls 3du ®
Letter Writer, Is. All About.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exp °?bd, •; Wb* ;?ockbi
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. ■•““A —»
T\ Qr} TOKOLOG
Degrees, New Edition, is 7s « post.
Dictionary, 8d posted... Rk ad Heads
INGERSOLL’S WORKS Bdr-S. . B . AdV ,ck TO a
ISUMBUUUO T.V..V..U, _ *hsk’B'AdVlCK to a
(Jas. Coates), ls 3d posied. Ci song
Wipe, 3s 6d posted. pQgt
Book, over 300 latest song , ■ --posted.
Bennarr Macfadder’s Works, all a Sc9AK .
Sappho, Is. Bread and Bwcuit Bakers,
Boilers’ Assistant, lB^ t : . ispest. 100#*®'-
is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy,
Recitations and Readings, Uwki|i
Its Cure, .is 2d posted.
abridged Dictionary, HW W. iwhv pay *-•»**■■
uound, my price, 15s port paid DTE -
guineas). Bootmaking a * ,d .?®l a mare’s
mos and Electric MpTORS, Is-d. IQI6 page 9) c m
MOS AND ECECTRIC MOTORS, IS
ASSISTANT, AMD COMPLETE 10


Coughs
Colds x bronchitis
Thk immediate and continuous success of the unique Peps treatment for
coughs, colds, sore throat, bronchitis, and other throat and chest ailments
is due to the tact that Peps provide, in handy tablet form, a potent
medicine which is breathed direct into the
bronchial tubes and lungs. The dotted lines in
this diagram follow the direction of the air we
breathe, whether through the nostrils (x) or the
mouth (2). Passing over the tongue (3) the
air mingles with the fumes emitted from
the little Peps tablet dissolving on the tongue,
and both are carried through the opening (4) to the throat.
Note that the Peps fumes pass down a separate passage (5) direct
to the lungs, not down the gullet (6) to the stomach, which is the
way all liquid medicines must go. To swallow any medicine into the
lungs is utterly impossible; and no medicine taken into the stomach
can reach the lungs.
Free from all
drowsy drugs,
always pure
and constant in
comp osition,
Peps are of
i ncalculable
value asa sooth-
ing, healing, re-
storing, and
germ - destroy-
ing remedy for
the throat and
chest troubles
so prevalent at
this season.
sold Evn nvhere
rj6 & si- per box
ti
V
©*
jgfs-.v?-••.••. V«••'••'•• n *
SrV; ,J
&
to thel
LungjT
THE
QUESTION of the DAY.
The question of to-day,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding' day is
HAVE YOU USED PEARS’ SOAP ?
If you Have not, you Have not
done your duty by your skin and
complexion. If, on tHe other Hand
—tHat is, on botH Hands, and on tHe
face, and on tHe sKin generally—you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
Happy, for you will Have done tHe
best tHat possibly can be done tor
tHe skin’s HealtH and beauty. There
can be no question about tHat.
PEARS Has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years.
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
Ode to Soap.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
various songs that men have sung
| Since Orpheus smote a random lyre,
And down a Thracian mountain flung
His elder rapture wingtd with fire,
Have dealt with many pleasant things,
But on this theme no poet sings.
Old Homer, with a trumpet’s voice,
May chant of heroes clad in mail;
The burning heart of Sappho’s choice
May make a music passion Dale;
But other matters should engage
The baid who sings our modern age.
Not Virgil’s lay of bees and plough,
Nor Omar’s strain of death and wine,
Nor Milton's steep, angelic row,
Devised to make arch-devils shine,
Can quite supply the strain sublime
To fill the measure of our time.
Give me a gifted fountain-pen.
A pen replete with blue-black ink,
That I may chant to modern men
A song their pinkest ears may drink,
That I may tell elate with hope
The holy mystery of SOAP.
Oh, foamy lather, sweet and kind,
Spread on creation’s upwaid path,
Thine is the moving force behind
The marching cohorts of the bath ;
Old fields were fair, old meadows green,
But in thy greatness man grows clean.
Oh, not by penitential fires,
By battles loud of smoke and spleen,
By virtue of unwashen sires,
By valour of the dead unclean,*
Shall we to heights of greatness climb
And win the crown of space and time.
Not on the swiftly turning wheel,
Not on broad wings that beat the air,
Not by the might of gold or steel
Shall we with gods their empire share;
But by the fowl’s sacred rub
And the anointed washing-tub.
What reck we of the wine-cup’s cheer,
The foaming flagon brown with ale,
The maiden blush, the falling tear,
The dewy rose, the lily pale?
These in the world’s large* morning prime
Were mauled by fingers drear with grime.
The bugle’s note, the cannon’s roar,
The might and majesty of arms,
All these were used in days of yore,
As background for my lady’s charms.
But now romance were void of grace
Unless my lady washed her face.
All wet and sweet with bubbled suds
Is evolution’s upward path,
The light of coming glorv floods
Our yet unwritten epitaph.
Our scrolls of fame though somewhat lean
Shall bear the record “They were clean.”
Oh. holy soap, to thee we bow,
Our sires are dead who did not care,
But now thy sign is on our brow.
And on the collars that we wear;
Foam, foam around us in thy pride,
And consecrate the white man’s hide!
r“The dead unclean.” As a case in point,
Edward IV. was the first English sovereign who is
known to have had a barber on his regular salary
list. This officer was in attendance every Saturday,
“In case the Tfinge should desire to cleanse his hedde,
legges or feet.”]
N.S.W.
PAT O' MAORI.
Sentiments and Analyses.
ILLUSION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Robert carmichael would have
been a better Australian had his
father not made him a Scot almost
as fanatic as himself; for not having seen
the banks and braes of various places in
Scotland, alleged to be “bonny,” hearsay and
his ignorance gilded them with a beauty they
had never known. His father, in the very
short intervals permitted from the work of
piling one shilling atop of the other, had im-
pressed on him the beauty of the character
of all Scotsmen, with particular reference to
the moral perfections of Glaswegians
above all others, and a second choice of Stir-
lingshire, as representing all the possible
fine attributes of the human mind and per-
son.
“A faithfu’ expo-nent of the trew Sco-tch
character is the noblest work o’ Gode,” said
Carmichael senior, “an’ o’ the nobeelity o’
that I need no’ speak—because ’tis kenned
the worrld o’er.” He was used to begin and
end this statement with a sound of self-satis-
faction—a sound that can be printed only
as “Imphm !”
“The Scots fairmer,” said Carmichael
senior—“ye’ll read o’ him in lan McLaren
and Maister Barrie. His crrack is syne
blythe an’ cheerie; lie’s a warrm-heartit
mon ; he oils his thrapple a wheen while an’
syne be eats tatties. Aye breezy, aye ceevil;
an’ when he dies Gode says till him : ‘Weel
dune!’ ”
From this his son assimilated the alleged
fact that the Almighty considers the Scotch
first, and the rest of the world in an order
inferior, and only confused by the desire of
everybody for preference.
Manhood determined him in the belief. He
saw his father’s friends —the tears gathering
i i their eyes under the influence of thoughts
of Scotland, assisted by muckle whisky and
mickle water —weep outright as they talked
of the Tolbooth. the Gallowgate. Sauchiehall-
street. and the Brig of Ayr—all very beauti-
ful when their general ugliness was softened
by ten thousand miles of distance, and the
golden memories of home induced by many
mutclikins and wee haufs. He had seen his
hard, money-grubhing father weep over the
bowel-tearing sounds of the bagpipes, seen
him pressing drink on the peace-murdering
scoundrel who blew his damnable instrument,
and heard him wish (he miscreant that
“Gode wild gie’ him plenty o’ win’.” He had
met his father’s friends —hard men turning
soft as they surrounded the spirit of the
Highlands, and by-and-b v e he had become an
idealist of Scotland AS-IT-IS-NOT, being
largely helped thereto by diligent study of
the kailyarders. J. M. Barrie with his
“Thrums” and his “Meenister” and his
idiotic “Pheemie”; and lan McLaren with
his “Bonnie Briar Bush,” which seemed to
have lost its thorns and he grown exclusively
from koumiss—which is coagulated mares'
milk and much desired beyond the Caucasus:
And his father, with queer commentary
sounds such as “Imphm!” and “Hooch aye!”
told him stories of how Jean, “who was a
wee whutroek o’ a tomboy, gien me a clup
ow’r the lug.” and of other such incitements
to amusement, and of how the EVER-TO-
BE-AOCURSED piper “played sae cheery”
(sae cheery, probably, that all the tourists
had to be operated on for appendicitis>.
“We’d play o’ cauld an’ wat nichts,” said
Carmichael’s father. “We’d play ‘Buck!
Buck! 1100 mony fingies dae I baud up,’ an’
whiles I’d mou Jeannie while she lichtit the
caunnle ! Imphm! Huoch aye !”... .
Carmichael junior was the only
Carmichael before he found time for the
long projected visit to that over-rated place
that bounds smug England on the north.
Old Carmichael had a year before unwill-
ingly withdrawn to the Presbyterians’
Heaven, which is almost as chilly as Storno-
way, but where the Scotch cannot feel
quite at home because wee haufs and mutch-
kins are not, and the haggis never blooms,
and all bagpipes are punctured at the door.
Carmichael landed in Glasgow intending
intimate acquaintance with the people of the
kailyard literature, but projecting a little
business deal also. He felt that if he did not
plainly show That his eye was on the main
chance he might be thought a degenerate.
He had been so steeped in the belief that,
because many Scots are models of business
intelligence and unswerving honesty, that all
were —-as foolish a belief as that meanness
is a common Scotch characteristic, whereas
very many Scotsmen are strong enough to
be splendidly generous, and many, more wild
enough to be outrageous spendthrifts.
Mr. Carmichael trusted his business to a
small young man, highly recommended, very
Scotch as to speech—so Scotch indeed as to
be mostly unintelligible—and with the trust-
ing, reproachful brown eyes of a gazelle in
the jaws of the hounds.
While Mr. Carmichael listened to Mac
Gazelle’s proposition that he should leave the
business exclusively in his (Mac Gazelle’s)
hands, he sampled Glasgow. Paisley, Green-
ock, Rothesay, and the Kyles of Bute. He
discovered that the Glasgow trams are the
cheapest for their quality on earth, and that
the drunkards sing “We are na’ fou” at 10
o’clock. He also found the one restaurant —
that in Sauchiehall-street —of Glasgow which
is Italian and irreligious, and therefore feeds
the stranger on Sundays ; and he saw the
heavy, solemn people walking Bible-laden
through snow and sleet and half-liquid mud,
each to his own particular kirk and
refrigerating works. And then he wearied
of it, and went to hunt up Mac Gazelle, and
Mac Gazelle looked at him with browiy-eyed
reproachfulness and said that he “was put-
tin’ his shouther to the wheel, and must not
be interfered wi’.” Also he asked Car-
michael to “hae a wee hauf,” and Carmichael
had it and departed, glad of the statement
that Mac Gazelle really had a “shouther”
and a “wheel,” and that he proposed shortly
to bring them into combination.
To leave Mac Gazelle with a free hand
Carmichael went into Stirlingshire for a
week-end, to see some distant relations. He
went to Castle Cary and then to the farm of
his distant relatives, through many villages,
one named Denny Lonehead, and all the
inhabitants were evidence of the truth of it;
and one called Hags, where dozens of them
looked out of their dull little windows at the
Idealist from Australia driving through the
sleet.
His driver had been told to show him the
lions of the road. Suddenly the carriage
turned at an acute angle, passing three small
boys, who played in the rain—so fine that
it seemed to be merely moist air. The
carriage stopped at the summit of a gentle
rise by a railing-guarded flagstaff and a
dulled copper-plate set in a worn old stone.
Carmichael alighted and looked out on satu-
rated air and banks of mist, and then turned
his gaze on the blue-nosed coachman.
“Yon’s the Field o’ Bannockburrn,” said
the coachman.
“Drive on,” said Carmichael, re-entering
the carriage, sorry that he could not feel a
thrill, but excusing himself with the weather.
He arrived at the farm of the distant
relations and immediately wished they were
even more distant—even the distance of
another planet.
He found a cottage, and by it a manure
heap with a sudden ambition to reach the
eaves. He had heard of the romantic beauty
of the weary traveller beholding the lum-
reek, and now he saw a lum trying to reek
through the mist, and thought of the air of
his own land, where the smoke rises—as
clear as sound rising in a desert —until the
blue of. the firmament destroys it utterly.
Within there was the story of desoairing
cleanliness struggling against the dirt of the
weather and of weary agriculturists sodden
with toil. Through the open door of the
inner room he saw dimly a great age-
blackened four-poster. The groaning of the
occupant of the bed almost completed the
disillusionment of Carmichael. To the
irritable housewife who sat by the struggling
fire he determined to be only a chance
stranger, and not the distant relation from
“abrod.”
He enquired of some mythical person, to
whom he gave the name of Mac Gazelle, who
he knew was a Lowlander and unlikely to
have relations so far north : and the woman,
hospitable enough, invited him to wait until
her son should return from the ploughing
and add his knowledge to the making of a
local directory.
She was a sharp-chinned, flat-faced, snub-
nosed woman—-her eyes small. and very
piercing—her complexion that of‘ a smacked
infant; and probably made irritable by long
service in the illness of the gude mon who
was preparing very unwillingly to become a
gude ghai-st. At last, irritated beyond
patience by his meaning, she turned in her
chair and indignantly corrected the sufferer
whose woes habit had made common.
“Hand your noise, mon—l canna hear
myset’ towk.”
“Hoo! hoo! I’m gatin to dee!”
“He seems very ill,” said Carmichael
sympathetically.
“Twal o’clocke an’ he’ll hae a feeht for’t,”
replied the lady with composure. “At (lie
turrn o’ the nicht he’ll gang.”
(Continued on next page.)


DROPSY
Watery Swellings under the Eyes and in the Ankles, Limbs and Body.
The fluid you take with your food,
in a single month , weighs as much as
your entire body.*
Most of this fluid has to pass out
through the kidneys, bladder and
urinary system.
Imagine what would happen if the
outlets for this water were stopped up !
In a few hours the limbs and body
would swell to a great size with the
collected water.
That is what actually takes place in
dropsy.
Dropsy is the name given to the
soft, watery swellings which appear in
the ankles, limbs and body, under the
eyes or in the eyelids, or on the backs
of the hands. If you press your finger
into the swollen flesh the pitting slowly
fills up with the water again.
you are of average weight.)
, n
m
m
V
A
\
7
y
DROPSICAL EYES.
DROPSY is not a disease in itself,
but it is serious because it indicates
serious disease.
It may show that the kidneys are
failing to separate the waste water from
the blood, or that there is something
obstructing the urinary canals and
preventing the waste water passing out;
or it may be caused by defective adlion
of the heart.
Tapping takes away the water from
under the skin, but more water soon
colledls, because tapping cannot reach
the cause of the dropsy, and as long
as tlie cause remains the dropsy will
continue.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills have
a quick and diredt action on the kidneys
and bladder. They promote a free flow
from the system, washing out clogging
impurities from the passages, and
draining out the colledled water through
the natural channels. They gently
lead the kidneys back to health and
activity, and thus reach the cause of
most cases of dropsy.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills have
no action on the heart, nor on the liver,
stomach or bowels ; they are solely foi
the kidneys and urinary system, anc
are, therefore, of the highest value ic
dropsy, gravel, stone and all disease,
arising from kidney and bladder trouble
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are SO P,
all chemists and storekeepers at 2 9 P er
(6 bottles 15/3), or post free by
McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street. Sydney.
sjivoo
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
“Hoo ! hoo! I’ll dee the nicht!” .
“Haud your girrnin’ an’ your groanin’,
inon!”
“Has he medical advice?”
“Oh, ay! he has th’ dochter body....
Siller in the pooch or nane; ’tis a’ yin
The dochter body he ordert brandy.... Can
ye wunner fowk are aye poor? Giein’
brandy to a ghde man wha’ll be dead the
morrn—an’ then the brandy aye wastit.....
The dochter body wad ruin fowk. Bran’ny !
I ca’ it naething but supersteetious.”
“Hoo! hoo! To Stirrling Ivirkyard I
matin gang.”
“Haud yer win’, gude mon —baud yer
win’. I ken fine I’ll marry Jock Tode- —oh,
ay! there’ll be a waddin’ at the eend o’ the
funeral!,.... Sheep in fold he hae, an’ kye
at hame an’ spunes to ilka dish.... He
ca’ed me a sonsie wee queen, did Jock; an’
his land marches wi’ oors. .. . ‘Gie me a
lass wi’ a lump o’ land,’ says Jock,”
“Hoo! hoo! Wheer’s Jamie, wumman?”
“At the ploughin’, mon. Haud y’r greet!
I canna’ hae a crack wi’ the gentleman. .. .
He’s gangin’ fast, my mon! I tell't my
dochter Jannet when I dee to tie up my
jaws, wi’ my last sigh.... I wadna’ hae
the fowk see me ’ll-fa’red, wi’ my jaws fa’en
doon An’ here’s Jamie.”
A big, rawboned, weary young man,
saturated with rain and sweat, came in, his
clothes steaming, his heavy boots bearing
still the heavy mould of the sodden furrow.
The dying man had listened for the sound of
his voice for many an hour, and now he
groaned again for sympathy.
“Jamie,” he groaned, “Jamie, ye muckle
sob. I’m deein’. Offer up a wee bit
prayer.”
“Pray for yerself!” said the morose
giant. “’Tis supper I’m wantin’.”
The dying man groaned again. All the
hardness of his granite country seemed to
move into that house and press around the
old black four-poster. Hard was he born;
in granite was he cradled ; poverty indurated
his life; sickness softened him, yet among
hearts of adamant must he die!
Carmichael found on his return to
Glasgow that the pathetic Mac Gazelle had
no “shouther” to put to a wheel, and that
the wheel itself was merely allegory and
myth. And the memory of blue skies and
liberty caHed him south to another hemi-
sphere—to the country which scarcely dares
yet to speak of itself, because it allows itself
to listen to clansmen from Scotland, and the
bleat of Ireland, and —worst of all —the
blatant, half-illiterate, fat-headed English
Imperialist whose Imperialism is in the
inverse ratio of his education.
Carmichael, a better Australian than he
had ever been, looked at the work his father
—hardened by the cruel struggles of his own
land—had done, and saw that it had been
good as it was dull, egoistic as unimagina-
tive, a success without gratitude to the land
that had been kind.
But Carmichael’s father had left his hard
and cruel birthplace when he was twenty and
in the spring of life, and age looks back to
the miseries of its early, manhood and calls
them happiness; for hell is fine in Youth and
Spring.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
The Night-Hunt.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HE smoked, his fire burned red ;
About him stars, impeari d
In thin mist, glimmerings shed
Upon a darkened world.
Anigh him tall trees stood,
Green beech and sassafras;
With rubies red as blood
The lit dew gemmed the gras3.
At times, a threatened bird
Aroused him with its call;
Or, far away, he heard
A night-liid waterfall.
Who was this camper —say,
This outcast of the night?
One bowed with toil, and grey,
And weary of the fight.
With brooding eyes he thought
Of Youth’s high promised dead,
Of fruitless battles fought,
Of dreams discomfited.
For him the pathway lay.
’Twixt wrecks of woe and want;
High lord of night and day—
He saw Greed dominant.
For him gold noons, dark nights
With vain endeavor moaned —
Unreachable the heights
Whereon Wrong sat enthroned.
He stood, hope overthrown,
A sullen figure there—
Alone, yet not alone,
For nigh him stood Despair.
Then all at once, upsprang
A tumult loud and high.
The night-world clamorous rang
As when a chase goes by.
An insolence of noise
Disturbed the dreaming trees —-
As when rough, boisterous boys
Invade a house of ease.
One foot upon a log,
He hearkened each strange sound —
The howling of a dog.
The baying of a hound.
And standing thus he heard
In wonder, open-eyed,
A noise of leafage stirred—
Of branches brushed aside
And then, in measure fleet
Another sound had birth,
The swing of padded feet
That pulsed along the earth.
Expectant, white of face.
He stood, a ’wildered man —
Till, through the firelit space,
A wild-dog, slavering, ran.
From dark to dark it fled
With out-thrust tongue and paws—
From some new killing sped,
With blood upon its jaws.
It passed, the leaping flame
Died down, the night grew mute;
Then, hot-of-foot, there came
A house-hound in pursuit.
His hayings roused the night,
He filled the dark with sound;
On, on, in headlong flight
He beHowed nose to ground.
With eyes and fangs agleam,
With flanks that heaved for breath,
They passed —as in a dream
Death and the Fear of Death.
Adown the mountain track
The midnight-hunting wound—
The grey caves answering back
The gaunt bell-throated hound.
Anon, the far alarm
Grew faint and died away,
And, couching head on arm,
The tired-out camper lay.
He dreamed (his fire burned red
And all the night was mute)
Of Wrong that ever fled
With Right in grim pursuit.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
The Suburban Armageddon.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THEY were together, leaning over the
parapet of the General Post Office,
Sydney.
The Art-for-Art’s-Sake-Artist gazed with
soulful intentness at the Lady-of-His-Dreams
beside him. As their looks met, She sighed
demurely, toying with the feather boa that
clung so caressingly around the olive sweet-
ness of her neck.
He faltered with a quite ecstatic expec-
tancy, “Darling, the End is near!” There
was a psychic pause; he continued: “How
rich is the joy in store for us !”
The Lady of His Dreams sighed some
more.
Like to one in a raptus, the A.-for-A.-S.-
Artist flung his arms around the Dreamy
Lady, sobbing a moist joy upon her open-
work blouse that bobbed its vieux-rose
beauty in witness to the depths of her emo-
tional response.
It was two minutes to the hour!
“See, Love!” he cried, waving one tap-
ered hand in a semi-circle before him. “These
blatantly squalid suburbs, these drab things
that would filch all the loveliness from our
love —they are to end !”
“Yes, Henry,” she agreed; “they are to
end —and then will your Great Soul get its
due appreciation?”
Yes, he called, his voice rising lf
intensity to a lyric falsetto, still Wavi “ '?
hand horizonwards. “Manly \r S n,s
Parramatta Potts Point * T*®
ling” Ut----Dar-
“Darling, I love you, too!” sobbed «.
Lady with almost plaintive tenderness 6
terrupting him.
Put the tire of a thousand pot-boilers * I
in his eye, the artistic ardor that not IoE
flowing silk cravats could quench had »x\2 l
him. He motioned her to silence ant PMd
ti tilled :, “Davlin* litmt .... wSIXj *
",srb!eot ay w^ thes ■"“•‘•ia
Here the clock struck the hour!
* * *
t
Oh, it was magnificent!
The moonlight was bathing a mvmj
Queen Anne villas with mellow g] orv
ferry steamers went crawling a crn»«
harbor waters like phosphorescent sLu
there was melody in the smoke-laden air j
many moaning tramcars—and IT came' °
Yes, all the suburbs were suddenly hrirtid
heavenward in one great upheaval Un
to yellow Sirius soared a thousand-score
Time Payment Pianos, making German Hi
cord among the spheres; up, up to' riX
Mars aviated a motley army of Irate Fa Hi
ers. Progress Committees, Drawine-ronm
Suites, Phonographs, Staghorn Ferns Board
ing-house Keepers, Caged Canaries, Muniri
»al Councillors, Hair Pads, Mothers of
Twelve, and Pants with Permanent Turn '
Ups. With mighty havoc were hurled :
against the blue Flappers, School Manns
and Perfect Gentlemen without number f o l
lowed by a very tempest of Sewing Machine*
and Real Hand Painted Pictures
The weird happenings of this great Arma-
geddon can never be recorded but Subur-
bia was no more. The True Art Life could
now be lived without a jarring note. 11l
the Really Sincere in Art were now free* to
hold holy converse with their Souls.
Who are these two figures that search
the ruins of the devastated suburbs?
Are they those of the Post Office tower?
Listen ! She speaks. “Come now, Henry
dear ; pick up that Tile, it’s just the shape
we want for our Buffalo Grass lawn....
Oh, what a perfect dream of a jardiniere,
Won’t Mrs. .Tones be jealous when she sees
it on our piano when she comes to After-
noon Tea! You are a selfish thin?,
Henry, and you know what a splitting head-
ache I’ve got. Throw away that nasty
bottle of beer and carry this antimacassar
for me... . Henry ! Henry ! Henry! Here’s
a lovely bedstead with real mother-o’-pearl
spindles. . . .What, you won’t carry the baby
any longer.* It’s a soualling little beast, is
it? You don’t mind if you do make me cry,
don’t you?”
The Lady of His Dreams had won. The
Art-for-A.-S.-Artist heaved one fruitless
sigh. A beaten man, he did as she bade
him. Out of the ashe« of his vanished
hopes be buildrd a new Queen Anne villa
for the Mother of His Family. He was last
heard of as Patron of the Jobville Sweet
Pea Society, and one of its most valued ex-
hibitors.
BERNARD INGLEHY.


Th
\\r
Oil Engine
From 7 to 40 H.P.
No Carburetter or Vaporiser. No Ignition Apparatus.
For STATIONARY
and MARINE
PURPOSES
Makes the following claims upon
your attention—
1— It uses cheap lamp oil (such as kerosene), and
other residuals.
2 The oil is injected directly into the cylinder,
thus dispensing with unreliable and inefficient
vaporisers.
-> —It is very simple in con-
struction. there being no
electric ignition or other
complicated mechanism.
4 Its speeds are such that
electric generators and
centrifugal pumps may
be coupled direct.
5 No skilled labor is Re-
quired. the supply of
fuel and lubricant
being all the attOn-
i*
FULL, PARTICULARS FROM
The Westinghouse Brake Company of Australasia Ltd.,
GEORGE STREET, CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
New Zealand Agents: Philips & Pike, Wellington.
-Morse Marine
■
For Pleasure Craft and Work Boats
They start without cranking, run
smoothly and always develop more
Type
7^H.P.
than rated power. Simple.
Compact. All parts easily acces-
sible and interchangeable. Re-
markable for their reliability and
economy in fuel consumption. Price
Reasonable. Fully Guaranteed.
High Speed Engines, 334 to 24 H.P.
Slow Speed Engines, 7 34 and 15 H.P.
Write for Catalog N0.CV1939.
F'alrbanks-Morse
Eclipse Engines
Small, sturdy engines especially suited
for pumping or running light machinery.
Simple. Compact. Two sizes. Will operate
any windmill pump.
Full description in Catalog N0.1939VR,
F.lnl
Fairbanks-Morse
Oil Engines
Operate on Kerosene. Petrol (Gasoline)
or Distillate. Stationary and Portable
types. Sizes 2to 200 H. P.
Write for Catalog N0.AL1939.
Fairbanks, Morse & Co.
Wabash Ave. and Chicago,
Eldredge Place U. S. A.
Agente:
C. H. RELPH
Sidney, N. S, W,
WEBSTER & CO., Ltd.
Brisbane, Queensland
MALLACH BROS.
Perth, W. A.
THE STIRLING WATER TUBE BOILER
Mmm
mm
ni
WL
m
wi
o
o
FOR
High Efficiency
AND
Perfect Safety.
We carry Boilers in Stock for Immediate
Delivery, and Quote for Erection
and Brickwork.
We are Sole Agents, and Contract for
Complete Power Plants with Guar-
anteed Results.
ALSO AGENTS FOR—
Nichols Boiler Feed Pumps, Bolinder Woodworking Machinery,
Dewrance Steam Valves.
Write us for our Complete Catalogue of Engineers’ Supplies,
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
HA
A Month iy Guide for everything
Australian.
6d
rtfl
Write for full particulars to
Economy Tiering Machine.
A machine for stacking ail goods to
any height limited by size of machine.
For Stacking Wool and Skins in Woolsheds.
For Stacking Stores for Storekeepers.
For Stacking any goods in a quick, cheap and
effective way.
Parsons Trading Co.,
340 Kent St., Sydney. Equitable Buildings. Melbourne.
As A Family Medicine
nothing has yet been put before the public to be compared with Beecham’s
Pills. For over half a century this medicine has been an easy First Favourite
in countless households, and the name and fame of Beecham’s Pills have
spread all over the world. The reason for the enormous popularity of this
remedy is not far to seek. Experience has shown that there is nothing better
for derangements of the stomach and digestive organs generally. Taken in
accordance with directions, Beecham’s Pill 3 give quick relief, stimulate the
organs go healthy action and have a tonic effect upon the whole system.
They are compounded of the best and purest ingredients and there are very
few people who would not feel better for an occasional dose of
Beecham’s Pills
If you have not tried them and have any doubt as to their real value and
efficacy, get a box and judge for yourself. You will find Beecham’s Pills a
valuable aperient and unequalled in regulating the stomach, bowels, liver,
and kidneys, and restoring the powers of digestion. A periodical dose will
enable you to keep well and “fit,” ready for work or play. By eliminating
impurities from the system, Beecham’s Pills increase the appetite, promote
assimilation of food and establish good health. No household should ever
be without a box. Many thousands have proved the wor th of Beecham’s Pills
and there is no doubt at all that they
Arc The Favourite Remedy.
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
. . . AT . . .
THE BANKING HOUSE, 228 Pitt Street,
Opposite PALACE THEATRE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LENDS MONEY ON ALL SECURITIES, including Furniture,
FROM 10 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
FRED. McWILLIAM, Manager
Sawmillers, Joiners and Cabinet Makers
You all require Economical, High-speed
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Ask us for Catalogues.
Ask us for References.
Ask us for Advice.
Ask us for Prices.
You will find that—Our Machines give you satisfaction.
You will find that—We hold the largest stock in Australia.
You will find that—Our expert advice is to your benefit.
You will find that—Our Prices as MANUFACTURERS are reasonable.
WE SAVE YOU MONEY.
Write, call or ’phone , we are always ready for you to discuss our machines.
THE PREMIER SAWMILL & WOODWORKING MACHINERY MANUFACTURERS,
&
■J
32 Market St. } Sydney.
'PHONE; CITY-7091.
FREE-
I
and
o
4
h
1
o
<6
Treatise.
This contains no fewer than
different models fully detailed,, and ex-
plains the workings, Government tests,
Velocities, etc., and shows in actual size the
various cartridges used, from the baby .22 to the
Giant ,45. It illustrates and describes Revolvers from
13/6 to £lO, and Automatic Pistols from 25/- to £7/10/-
It is by far the most complete list ever issued in the Southern
Hemisphere, and we will send you a copy POST FREE, if you men-
tion this paper. .
Special items: “BROWNING,” the world’s most famous pistol for Civilians, Police
and Military. “COLTS” special Revolvers, for Pioneers, shooting ordinary Winchester
rifle, cartridges, .32, .38, .44 calibres.
Get your' copy early, they’re going out fast.
ALCOCK & PIERCE,
Gun and Cartridg
Makers,
318 LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
V’.S. —Some of our rifles are mentioned in anotb-r p?-* of this paper.
GUTS
on
HORSES
FLINT’S MEDICATED OIL
Is without doubt the most surprisingly prompt cure for Saddle Calls, Cuts,
Fistula nr Broken Knees on i orses. It. possesses the rare merit of healing
without leaving any blemish, the hair growing in the natural colour. This
distingui-hes Flint’s Oil from every other preparation. Price 35., from most
stores throughout Australia, and procurable through anv wholesale house
such as Elliot. Bros., Sydney and Brisbane, or from
C. B. FLINT, Manufacturing Chemist, ADELAIDE.
Higher Speed Production
for the Wood-Worker.
There’s a territory full of profit, which you haven't, touched yet. You
can’t get it, either, until you speed your shop production with higher-
speed machines—machines which will do all your present work and leave
time for much more. Some of the following will help you reach out for
more business, and will pay for themselves out of the extra profits.
SANDERS
TENONING MACHINES
CHAIN MORTISERS
SPINDLE MOULDERS
3 & 4 CUTTER PLANERS
PANEL PLANERS.
CIRCULAR SAW BENCHES
LOG BAND MILLS
AUTOMATIC HUB TURNING MACHINES
DOVE-TAILERS
SPOKE AND 'HANDLE BLANK SAWS
TWO-SIIJE FELLOE PLANING MACHINES
CONCAVE FELLOE SAWING MACHINES
WOOD-BENDING MACHINES
CIRCULAR SAWS
BAND MILLS
Etc., Etc., Etc.
CASH OR TERMS.
T. M. COODALL & GO., LTD.
(Universal Machinery Merchants),
‘ 303-5 Kent Street, SYDNEY.


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Fire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write tor our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MACK LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Qtieen Street.
INDIRECT INTERIOR LIGHTING.
Shadowless, Color True, Efficient.
All interested in securing the Latest and Most Economical method of Lighting
by Electricity are invited to make further enquiries and apply for our Special
Booklet on this subject.
OF AUSTRALIA Ltd..
URNE: 33 William St.
Phone—City 5117.
SYDNEY: Wyoyard Lane.
’Phone-City 3520.
BRISBANE: Roma St
'Phone—Cent. 3676.
Fireproof Buildings of
Fibro-Cement (Asbestos) Sheets
at the cost of Weatherboards.
Suitable for Dwellings, Theatres, Halls,
Warehouses, etc.
Timber is dear, so is labor. You only require about
three-fourths the quantity of studding and labor for a
building of Fibro-Cenfent.
LOOK AT THE SAVING THAT IS MADE.
Fibro-Oement is made of best Portland cement reinforced
with Asbestos.
FIRE, HEAT, ROT and ANT PROOF,
Easily erected by ordinary carpenter. Outlasts timher,
iron, or lath and plaser.
CONSTANTLY IMPROVES WITH LAPSE OF TIME.
Supplied also in Slates for roofing.
Write for Lit Hos and Catalog L to sole importers—
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney, and at Melbourae.
For Men
1
5M
mm
mu
Spirit
£
JV
FOR WOMEN
Combine Efficiency with Economy
.
using-
an
CORK
1 %
odern
r.
imm
: S
=■■ "
Y
•si.
FAST SUPERSEDING ALL OTHER METHODS OF INSULATION.
J. WILDRIDGE (D. SINCLAI
2in. of Nonpareil Cork equals 4in, of Charcoal.
Street, Sydney.
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRON FOUNDERS, etc.
$ '.y.V- , . , , i .
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Valves, Pumps, Pluming,
Patent “ Nelyambo” Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Pluming, pastings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought I non Work*
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
WIRE SCREENING
Double Crimped of Highest Quality Steel.
jl‘ H ® ■ B B'S 1
■1 S’® H ® W'
|j □ □*» m n c
h'm m*m m*m %
r.. -ki
$
For use on all kinds of Ore Screening in Batteries,
Jigs or Concentrating Plants.
Are you getting the best results from your present Screens?
To ensure economy as well as the best results we offer this Double Crimped Screening as possessing many
advantages. Where the wires are double crimped both ways it gives the cloth that smooth surface,
allowing the material to pass over it freely. It also means that your cloth retains its original mesh,
and even wear to the end. Write for Sample Screen and price list. Large stocks on hand from the
coarsest to the finest mesh required.
sdh
•"
*
«L
Ai
• -
e
Engineers U Machinery
60 Clarence St.,
HING for MINING.
Air Compressors
Rock Drills
Sand Blast Apparatus
Rock Crushers
Jigs
Dorr Thickeners
and
Dorr Classifiers
Card Concentrators
Candles
Explosives
N. GUTHRIDGE LM
SYDNEY and
MELBOURNE
