

PBWA.K 3 S THE GENIAL SPIRIT.
B. G. WATKINS CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
The Shopkeeper Needing Financial Aid
will exercise sound judgment by procuring the necessary loan from this Company —whose reputation 4 for
fair dealing stands as sponsor for straightforward and business-like treatment. Small or large loan* on
any reasonable security. LOWEST INTEREST IN AUSTRALIA!
N.S.W. Mont De Piete D. 8 I. Co. Ltd., Opposite National Amphitheatre.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
sdfsdf
Doctors Recommend
CILBEY’S DRY GIN
HOBJLRT.
-—2« S»
'
{jadleysQrieDt fjotel.
pi ONE
BELTING
Guaranteed
«/. C. Ludlowici & Son, Ld.
ll7 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
sf
Take it back.
I must have
HUTTON*
for Apple Brand I
sd
fs
ONIXSIS3U
32 RECIPES
for preparing a variety of the most
dainty Desserts with
fsd
Jfe
nket,
f
will be forwarded, Post Free to Any
Address, on application to
T. 8., Box 577, G.P.0., Sydney.
m
\,
m
m '
ft
■
.
are si
construded to ensure
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO.,
SYDNEY-MELBOURNE—NEWCASTLE
sdf
sd
fsd
f
sdf
sdf
sd
COCOA
SUPERIOR
I N
EVERY WAY.
White Malthoid
for
White Australians.
The White Malthoid Roof is the roof par
excellence ; artistic ; dependable ; satisfactory.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT CO.,
Manufacturers of Amiwudf.
CHALLIS HOUSE, SYDNEY. Agencies Everywhere.
Y
r^
m
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
B.L
GOLD LABEL
WHITE LABEL
EXTRA
SPECIAL
5 ,V. O.
New Way
AIR-COOLED
BENZINE
ENGINE
There’s no hard work with a“ New-Way” Engine.
Couple it to a pump, saw bench, winnower or any
Implement and prove it.
No water-cooling tank or piping required, simple,
powerful, always ready, economical and unaffected
by weather conditions. Saves time, trouble and
expense. Guaranteed effective. Bosch High
Tension Magneto fitted.
Prom 2% to 12-H.P. Portable and Stationary.
Write for Catalogue.
fsd
jlfoffottJirtue£M
machinery merchants,
352 KENT STREET,
(near King Street) SYDNEY.
helidon spa
The Helidon Spa Water Co*, in its extensive distribution, has
placed “the rational water cure” within reach of all*
STARKEYS LTD.,
Phi/Up St., Sydney, and
Agents,
Red fern
The Bulletin
Vol. 34.—N0. 1725.]
[Thursday, March 6, 1913.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


EVERYMAN ENCYCLOPAEDIA.
Edited by
ANDREW BOYLE.
To be completed In 12 Volumes, bound In Cloth.
Price 15/- the Set.
The greatest care has been exercised in the compilation of this, work, and only the very best avail-
able authorities have been consulted. The publishers issue the work as a practical and comprehensive
REFERENCE ENCYCLOPAEDIA, containing more references and articles than any other encyclopedia
tmblished at twice the price.
F Eac h volume will contain 640 pages, comprising over 500,000 words, so that the full set of 12
volumes will contain more than 6,000,000 words. .
VOT.TTME I NOW READY. Remaining volumes will be issued monthly.
ORDERS REGISTERED FOR THE COMPLETE WORK.
GEORGE ROBERTSON (Sb CO. PTY. LTD., 238 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes
For Coughs, Colds,
Sore Throat and the
Prevention of
Consumption.
A. The Larynx
or Organ of
Voice.
B. The Trachea
or Windpipe.
0. The Bron-
chial Tubes
of Dissected
Lung.
D. The Lobe of
one of the
Lungs
f
CAUTION.—The large sale for “Eumenthol
JUJUBES” has led to a number of uww
tions being manufactured under the nam ® .
menthol and other jujubes. It is imports >
therefore, when buying, to be sure ana S
HUDSON’S “Eumenthol Jujubes. ’ You maj
be asked to buy other jujubes, and be to'a .
are “just as good” as Hudson s I< ’ ur ! l ,®l.- nTls
Jujubes.” This proves that these imitations
and substitutes have no reputation ot
own, and can only be sold on the flood rep .
and high character of Hudson s Eume
Jujubes.”
SOLD BY CHEMISTS, Tins I/O-
, Forwarded post free on receipt of stamps
by the Manufacturers, .
Hudson’s Eumenthol Chemical Co., L •,
19 York Street, SYDNEY.
Box 1520 Q.P.O.
The Red Page
Kipling
This lordly book in noble type, with nice
blue capital letters, reverently enshrined in
a box, Collected Verse of Rudyard Kipling
(Hodder and Stoughton, per Angus and Rob-
ertson, Sydney), is already in its third edi-
tion. But the title is a misnomer. The col-
lection includes none of the verses Kipling
scattered through his books of short stories,
and few of those published that have hitherto
never appeared in volume form. It consists
practically only of the reprinted contents of
his three volumes, Barrack-Room Ballads,
The Seven Seas and The Five "Nations .
There are no Departmental Ditties, and,
happily, no “Absent-Minded Beggar.” But
he has revenged himself for this particular
sacrifice to his critics by stuffing his big box
with “Various Verse,” music-hall songs, topi-
cal journalism, blatant Jingoism, crude
philosophy and some poetry.
But Kipling’s achievement is beyond criti-
cal sneers. With all its faults this book is
unique; as the product of one brain it is
marvellous. Kipling has recklessly butted
into English literature, and there he stays.
Considered merely as a maker of phrases,
Kipling cannot be politely shooed off the
Muses’ premises: he has added too much to
our common speech. To take only the most
obvious: —
Lord, send a man like Bobbie Burns to sing
the Song o’ Steam !....
For a man he must go with a woman, which
women don't understand. ...
If blood be the price of admiralty,
Lord God, we ha’ paid in fu11! ....
There’s a Legion that never was ’listed ....
And what should they know of England who
only England know ?....
There are nine and sixty ways of construct-
ing tribal lays,
And every single one of them is right! ....
Oh, East is East, and West is West, and
never the twain shall meet ....
Ye fawned on the Younger Nations for the
men who could shoot and ride! ....
The flannelled fools at the wicket or the
muddied oafs at the g0a15 ....
Take up the White Man’s Burden....
O it’s Tommy this, an’ Tommy that, an’
“ Tommy, go away”:
But it’s “Thank you, Mister Atkins,” when
the band begins to play....
If you’ve ’eard the East a-callin’, you won’t
never ’eed naught else....
Ship me somewheres east of Suez, where the
best is like the worst,
Where there aren’t no Ten Commandments
an’ a man can raise a thirst....
An’ I learned about icomen from ’er!....
The Heathen in ’is blindness bows down to
wood an’ stone....
If England was what England seems ....
And most of the “Recessional.”
J*
You mayn’t like the goods he sells, but
they are popular and durable. And he is
more than a peddler of flashing phrases. He is
an artist, but not an artist in literature. His
verse Is not to be read : it is to be spoken,
or, preferably, sung, and, if possible, sung in
a music-hall. When he tries to use words
as they are used in literature, he fails. Take
a serious stanza like this : —•
Pure Wisdom hath no certain path
That lacks thy morning-eyne,
And captains bold by thee controlled
Most like to God’s design.
Thou art the Voice to kingly boys
To lift them through the fight,
And Comfortress of Unsuccess....
To give the dead good-night.
What poetry is there in that? A bald idea
feebly expressed in prose. But turn Kip-
ling on to one of those “common tunes that
make you choke and blow your nose,” and,
like his banjo, he “can rip the very heart-
strings out with those.” To parody him: —
With his “Pilly-Willy-winky-winky-popp!”
(Oh, it’s any tune that comes into his
head!)
So he keeps ’em moving forward till they
dropj
So he plays ’em'up to water and to bed.
In his knowledge of the value of the
spoken word, in his cleverness in the man-
agement of metre, Kipling has a high place.
For an example of this mastery over his
chosen medium, this ability to make his
readers beat time with their feet as they
read, it will suffice for our purpose to quote
from “Boots”: —
We’re foot — slog — slog — slog—sloggin ’ over
Africa !
Foot — foot — foot — foot — sloggin’ over Africa.
( Boots — boots—-boots — boots — movin’ up and
down again!)
There’s no discharge in the war!....
Don’t—don’t — don’t — don’t —look at what’s
in front of you
(Boots — boots — boots — boots — movin’ up and
down again!)
Men — men — men — men —men go mad with
watchin’ ’em,
An’ there’s no discharge in the war!
Count — count — count — count —the bullets in
the bandoliers; _ ,
If — yout — eyes — drop—they will get atop o’
you . ,
(Boots — boots — boots — boots—movin' up an
down again)—
There’s no discharge in the war!
’Tain’t — so — had — by—day because o’ com-
pany,
But flight — brings — long—strings o’ forty-
thousand million
Boots — boots—boots — boots — movin’ t up an'
down again.
There's no discharge in the war!....
I — 'ave — marched — six—weeks in ’Ell, an’
certify
It — is—not — fire — devils —dark or anything,
But boots — boots—boots — boots — movin’ up
an’ down again,
An’ there’s no discharge in the war!
Here, by the cheapest and vulgarest
means, by nothing but his indicated metre,
without help from a single rime, Kipling has
expressed once for all the utter dreariness of
marching. There are no records of men
going mad by marching, but Kipling has
shown why they should. And his readers
must not only read the written word, they
must keep step, they must march with that
column over Africa. Rudyard is surely the
unchallengable Poet Laureate of Boats.
As a poet laureate of a wider thing, the
Empire, Kipling does not ask for the job:
he shrieks for it. He takes the Empire as
seriously as he takes himself; he has deli-
berately adopted the Empire: at times he
thinks he is the Empire. The result is that
the billet is still vacant. There are dozens
of alleged poems in this collection in which
Kipling becomes the gramophone of Empire :
he makes a rather raucous noise. Such stuff
as “Seng of the Wise Children, “The Mer-
chantmen,” the whole of “The Song of the
English,” “Our Lady of the Snows.” “The
Young Queen” —piffle about the Common-
wealth, “The Flowers,” “The Native-Born,”
“Dirge of Dead Sisters” —the nurses in
South Africa, that unconvincing poem,
“South Africa,” with its silly refrain, “The
English Flag,” etc. —this sort of song is
gramophoned, not sung. Every one of the
seven, or 17, nations must have a poena, and
in the rest of his imperial verses each colony
or dominion must have its little verse. This
is the seventieth way ©f constructing Empire
lays. It is like trying to build a Gothic
cathedral out of toy picture blocks.
But Kipling can write a good ballad. It
is more accurate to say he could write a
good ballad, for he soon outgrew the ballad-
impulse. “The Ballad of Boh Da Thone” is
an admirable example of the true ballad
spirit:—•
The word of a scout—a march by night —
A rush through the mist —a scattering fight —
A volley from cover —a corpse in the clear-
ing —
The glimpse of a loin-cloth and heavy jade
earring —
The flare of a village—the tally of slain —
And.... the Boh was abroad on the raid
again !
And “The Ballad of East and West” has,
too, the rousing swing and the words that
pulse with the rhythm of youthful blood.
This hotch-potch of verse and other things
hardly gives Kipling the poet a chance. The
inclusion of so much mere journalism, so
much pretentious Imperial piffle, so many
deliberate purple patches, is a formidable in-
dictment of Kipling’s critical judgment.
Does the man really think that every verse
he wrote, except “The Absent-Minded Beg-
gar,” and the other omissions, should be in-
scribed on these fine tablets? Yet there is,
for remembrance, the residue: the camp-fire
“Song of the Banjo” ; “McAndrew’s Hymn,”
the root-idea of which is universal enough
to emerge from the too deliberate technical-
ities ; the fine characterisation of “The ‘Mary
Gloster’ ”; the impressionism of “The De-
stroyers,” which the poet thought to repeat
in that weak thing, “Cruisers”; the vivid
sense of landscape in “Sussex”; that rebelli-
ous and cheerfully disloyal warning against
kings. “The Old Issue,” with its reiterated
Suffer not the old King here or overseas;
the cheeky “I told you so” of “The Lesson” —
the lesson of the Boer War ; the patronising
contempt of “The Islanders”; even “The
White Man’s Burden,” in which the preacher
allows the poet little show; “The Reces-
sional,” despite the fact that Kipling’s God
is the “Lord of our far-flung battle-line,” a
comfortable private and particularly Anglo-
Saxon God whom one can without danger
patronise; the grim humor of “Danny Dee-
ver,” quite as good as anything of Pater-
son’s ; the atmosphere in “Mandalay,” got
by suggestion, and, not, as in his Imperial
verses, by snapshots of actual description;
the “Chant-Pagan” of the Englander who
knows of England because he has seen
Africa: —
Me that 'ave been what I’ve been,...
'Oiv can I ever take on
With awful old England again,
An’ ’ouses both sides of the street,
An’ 'edges two sides of the lane,
An’ the parson an’ gentry between,
An’ touchin’ my ’at when we meet —
Me that ’ave been what I’ve been?
Me that 'ave rode through the dark....
With only the stars for my mark,
An’ only the night for my friend,
An r *th ings runnin’ off as you pass,
An’ things jumpin’ up in the grass,
An’ the silence, the shine an’ the sise
Of the ’igh, unexpressible skies...*
I am talcin’ some letters almost
As much as a mile, to the post,
An’ “mind you come back with the change!
Me!....
I will arise an’ get ’ence;
I will trek South and make sure
If it’s only my fancy or not
That the sunshine of England is pale,
An’ the breezes of England are stale,
An’ there’s somethin’ gon -e small with the
10t....
The rest is pretentious vacuity, dull phras-
ing, silly refrain, clever jingle, Bret Harte,
rimed philosophy, “Bellerive,” or picture
postcards of the Empire. All this is often
interesting, “but is it art?” But there is
enough of genuine poetry of the popular sort
to make quite a nice little volume of re-
membersome verse.
Chesterton
G. K. Chesterton continues to repeat him-
self in A Miscellany of Men (Methuen, per
George R#bertsom, Sydney). This b«»k can-
sists of a selection «f those tabloid essays in
paradox contributed by him t© the London
press; and though there are good things in
the book, the topical references “date his
opinions to© much. Anyone who attempts
to consume the whole book at one sitting
will assuredly get appendicitis of the
epigram or a compound fracture of the para-
dox ; and yet, certainly, taken homee©-
pathically, G.K.C. is stimulating. Thus:
“All our controversies are confused by cer-
tain kinds of phrases which are net merely
untrue, hut were always unmeaning. We
recognise them wherever a man talks of ‘the
survival of the fittest,’ meaning only the sur-
vival of the survivors; or wherever a man
says that the rich ‘have a stake in the coun-
try,’ as if the poor could not suffer from mis-
government ©r military defeat;.... or when
a man talks about ‘government by the wise
few,’ as if they could be picked out by their
pantaloons. ‘The wise few’ must mean either
the few whom the foolish think wise or the
very foolish wh© think themselves wise....
Den’t say that Primitive Man knocked down
a woman with a club and carried her away.
Why @n earth should he? Does the male
sparrow knock down the female sparrow’ with
a twig? Does the male giraffe knock down
the female giraffe with a palm tree? Why
should the male have had to use violence at
any time to make the female a female?” And
his suggested essay on the theory, “Are the
Japs Cats?*’ is exquisite fooling, with an ab-
surd substratum of fact. “Japanese pictures
were really rather like pictures made by cats.
They were full sf a feathery softness and of
sudden and spirited scratches. If anyone
will wander in some gallery fortunate enough
to have a fine collection of these slight water-
color sketches on rice paper, he will observe
many elements in them which a fanciful per-
son might consider feline. There is, for in-
stance, that odd enjoyment of the tops of
trees; those airy traceries of forks and fad-
ing twigs, up which certainly no artist, but
only a cat, could climb. There is that elvish
love of the full moon, as large and lucid as
a Chinese lantern, hung in those tenuous
branches. That moon is so large and lumi-
nous that one can imagine a hundred cats
howling under it. Then there is the. exhaus-
tive treatment of the anatomy of birds and
fish; subjects in which cats are said to be
interested. Then there is the slanting, cat-
like eye ef all these Eastern gods and men—
but this is getting altogether too coincident.
... .It is enough for me to say here that in
this small respect Japs affect me like cats.
I mean that I love them.... But, as for lik-
ing them, as one likes a dog—that is quite
another* matter. That would mean trusting
them.”
The name of William Caine (no connec-
tion of Hall) may now be added to the
select list of worth-while English novelists.
William Caine is the author of a long list
of just-so or better novels, including Boom,
The Devil in Solution, and Save Us from
Our Friends; but Hoffman’s Chance (Lane,
per Dymock’s Library, Sydney) places him
well up among the winners. This is the
story of a musician who wrote a comic
opora, and of the vicissitudes that befell
that ambitious composition. Hoffman is a
genius who, equipped with a capacity to
write tuneful music, is out to capture the
public. Hoffman knows himself that his
stuff is not classic, but it is better than any
of the allged music in the modern musical
play. His librettist is a crafty amateur pre-
pared to put up the cash for its production in
London; and the whole interesting business
of composition, casting,' rehearsal and man-
agement of the comic opera is told with con-
vincing realism. In the end the production
is ruined by the infatuation of the librettist
for a stage-struck girl, whose “thinking”
part is gradually built up—to the ruin of
Hoffman’s music—until she. becomes leading
lady. All the people in this story are real
people, Hoffman most of all. It is a brave
bit of writing, packed with shrewd observa-
tion of character, and full of dramatic in-
terest. Willian Caine’s next work will
surely be worth reading.
The White Slave Traffic in Bnglaai
forms the theme of a remarkable Bevel,
Where Are You Going Tof (Heine-
mann), by Elizabeth Robins, author of that
powerful book, The Magnetic North. This
ugly business, as it is carried on in the
United States, was trenchantly exposed by
R. Kauffman in his serious and sincere
novel, Daughters of Ishmael; and Elizabeth
Robins’ indictment of the woman-traffic in
London is equally sincere and serious. But
the styles are far apart. Daughters of lah-
mael was in the nature of a complete sum-
mary of the evidence, set forth with authen-
ticated detail, and ending in a climax ®f
horror: a tract made literature. Where Are
You Going To? treats but one side of the
hideous question. It is a story, told with a
simplicity that recalls the method of Marie
Claire, of tw® sheltered girls brought up in
complete ignorance of the wickedness of the
world, who, living their secluded, trivial lives
in the calm of a countryside, are suddenly
precipitated into immoral surroundings in
London. The girls are about to spend a few
months in London with their aunt, who, hav-
ing quarrelled with their mother, is person-
ally unknown to them. A French dress-
maker, brought down from London to make
their dresses, sees in the poverty and inex-
perience of the tw® girls a chance to kidnap
them for immoral purposes. Thus baldly
set eut, the plot seems wildly improbable;
but the art of the author makes this thing
more than credible. The girls are met at
the station by a woman whom they take te
be their aunt, from her resemblance to the
only portrait they had possessed of her. The
French dressmaker had stolen the portrait;
and the pretended aunt is the keeper of what
one of the habitues of the place describes as
“one of the mest infamous houses in
Europe.” Hither the two innocent girls are
brought, and so strange is the demeanor of
the other occupants that at first the girls
think they are in an insane asylum. En-
lightenment comes to the elder of the girls
threugh one of the men, who, out of pity
for her plight, manages, in a scene tense with
tragedy, to enable her to escape. The girl lies
to the address of her aunt, whose maid had
come to® late to meet them at the train; and
mad with fear for the fate of her pretty
and still more innocent sister left in that
house, applies to the police for her rescue.
But the girl does not know the location of
the house; and the police, though admitting
the possession ©f a list of such places, are
unable to break through the circumlocutions
of routine in setting about their task. The
point Elizabeth Robins dreadfully reiter-
ates is that the police know all about the
traffic. yes, and every man knows abeut
it, and yet there the hideous thing still is.
Ultimately two men friends of hers succeed
in locating the house, and enter it with the
police, only to find that the girl has been
spirited away. She is traced to a similar
establishment in Paris, and there the clue is
lost. The book closes with the elder sister’s
dreadful hope that the younger girl is dead.
Whore Are You Going To? is a woman’s
indictment of the male civilisation that per-
mits this horror. It is written with pellucid
sincerity and with great art.
Three new half-crown volumes of Heine-
mann’s superbly illustrated series of “Great
Engravers” are devoted respectively to Mar-
cantomo and Italian Engravers and Etchers
of the 16th Century, Rembrandt —a feast
of art, and Hans Holbein the Younger, in-
cluding his Wowseristic “Dance of Death.”
This series, edited by Arthur M. Hind,
should be in the hands of every student of
art.
A series of little essays that display
all the charm and shrewdness and
humor of Arnold Bennett, a series,
too, that has been extraordinarily popu-
lar, includes How to live on 2j Hours
a Day (reviewed last year on this page),
The Human Machine, Literary Taste and
How to Form. It, Mental Efficiency, and The
Feast of St. Friend (Hodder and Stoughton,
per Angus and Robertson, Sydney). These
are just the kind of books to pack in the
kit-bag or the bulging dress-basket for the
holidays—wholesome common sense, sweet-
ened with genial humor.
Despite Ms creator’s elaborate preface,
one refuses to believe in Bill, of Bill’s Idees,
by A. G. Stephens (N.S.W. Bookstall Co.,
Sydney, Is.). Refuses to believe, that is,
that there is in existence one Bill who has
the. idees his author credits to him. The
idees are too patently literary idees, though
they are expressed with a quaint, rather
than a robust humor, with wit that has
im it no genial humanity. But Bill, though
there is too much Bill, was worth the creat-
ing. The chapter on Yere Foster as an
author is pleasant fooling, but several of the
incidents of Bill’s career are quite, and per-
haps deliberately, preposterous. When, how-
ever, Bill, or his author, proceeds to re-
write a chapter of Steele Rudd, the parody
is not sufficiently clever to justify the paro-
dist’s “cheek.” The hand that pulls the
strings of his mannikin is too plainly shown
in Bill’s knowledge and interest in the
psychology of the female of oq.r species. The
hopeful thing about Bill’s Idees is the
marked improvement in story writing shown
by the author since the publication of his
The Pearl and the Octopus.


*
ace
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS
tft
li
'MH
a £
HJ
fi J
J " J J j
1057
Canton Guard Lever Harrows
Similar in construction to the ordinary U-Bar Lever Harrow, with the addition,
of the Guards that protect the ends of the tooth bars.
This Harrow is superior to all others for use in orchards, vineyards, or trashy
ground. The ends of the tooth bars being protected, prevents injury from colliding
with trees or shrubs, and avoids the accumulation of trash that would foul the
ordinary Harrow.
By throwing the levers forward the teeth are thrown back for transporting, or
to clear.the Harrow of trash.
Made in two Sections of 25 or 30 teeth to the Section. The teeth are 8 inches
long by 4 inch square.
2 Sections of 25 teeth each, with bars as shown, weight 2031 b., width Bft.,
complete . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . 75/-
2 Sections of 30 teeth each with bars as shown, weight 2311 b., width 10ft.,
complete . . . . .. .. .. .. . . .. .. 84/-
THE STAR DISC HARROW
THE STAR DISC
HARROW contains all
the features of any im-
portance in a disc har-
row, and includes besides
many advantages and
conveniences for the
cheap and successful use
of such an implement.
The seat is so arranged
that it can be adjusted
for a light or heavy
driver, and all excess of
weight taken off the
horses’ necks. A two-
wheeled fore truck takes
the place of the pole, do-
ing away with all friction
on the horses, and enab-
ling the operator to turn
his team in their own
length.
sdf
Light 2-Horse, sft. wide, 10 discs, lGin. size of discs, 3021 b. net weight £7
2 or 3-llorse, Oft. wide, 12 discs, lOin. size of discs, 3001 b. net weight (No. Tx
10051 t •• •• •• •• . y •• £7/10/ -
All Star Harrows have two levers. Cleaners included.
WIARD PATENT PLOUGHS
sdf
sd
No. G 2. Pony Plough, will plough 3in. to sin. deep, Gin. to Sin. wide; Wood beam,
weight 401 b., with wheel, 23/6. Extra Shares, 9d.
No 100 Two-Horse Steel Beam Plough, as illustrated, fitted with ordinary
Colonial Coulter, and with Iron Handles if required, will plough Gin. to dm.
deep, lOin. to 14in. wide; weight, 1061 b., 70/- Extra Shares, 1/9.
No. 21, One-Horse Swivel Plough, Wood Beam, will plough 4m. to an. deep,
Gin. to lOin. wide; weight, 771 b., 42/C. Extra Shares, 1/ •
Send for Price List of Agricultural
Implements and Tools of Trade,
Post Free on request.
lOin. Steel Beam, for two Horses, weight, 911 b.,
Canton Scotch Clipper Plough, lOin. Steel Beam for two
with one Steel Share, 75/-. Extra Steel Shares, 9/b.
CANTON No. 4
DISC PLOUGH.
THE CANTON DISC PLOUGH has been universally successful for general
use everywhere (in hard, soft, dry, wet, old or new soil).
The Discs are 24 inches in diameter, and the Single Disc will >turn furrows
from 3 to 12 inches, and the gang ploughs have adjustments of equal dimensions
between each Disc. The Discs are all ball-bearing, have dust-proof boxes, and are
set at the proper angle to revolve freely when in contact with the soil. The soil
is turned completely over and is thoroughly pulverised. Can be adjusted to cut 10
or 12 inches.
1- weight, 6721 b. .. .. .. Price, £l3/10/-
2- weight, 7<Solb. .. .. . . Price, £lO/5/-
3- weight, 9001 b. .. .. .. Price, £2l
26in. Spare Discs, 24/ - each.
' D
W
No. Tx 1056.— New Model One Horse Plough, wood handles, low set, like the
famous Scotch ploughs (No. Tx 1056) .. .. .. .. .. 50/-
Empire All Steel
Cultivator
We specially recommend this Cultivator, as, with the attachments, it can be
used for cultivating almost any crop. ,
With Attachments, weight. 901 b., 34/6. Extra Tines, It, lh -i m -> eac •
Sweeps, 10in.. 1/-; 12in., 1/1; 14in., 1/2 each.
Hilling Board Attachments, 10/6 pair.
Extension Pieces, to make into 7-Tine Cultivator 7/6 pair.
IRON PLOUGHS.
Si*.
K 0 o —One-Horse Iron Plough, as illustrated, with one extra share and spanner;
weight, 1161 b.; will do Tin. to Bin. depth and width ">/"
Two-Horse Iron Plough, similar to No. 0, but much stronger. . • • . £5/5/-
The Little Beauty Iron Pony Plough, weight, 821 b.; will do Tin. to Sin. depth
and width oU/ '
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Bricßfield Hill*
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


fj
W€a
Vj.
r .
V.
u
fsd
LOOK
RED
FORTHE
ON EVERY BOX OF
Rifle And
Pistol Cartridges
By taking this precaution, you will be sure of
getting Winchester make of cartridges, which
are universally acknowledged to have no super-
iors. Winchester cartridges adapted to Winches-
ter rifles are made to get the best results out of
Winchester rifles. The same equipment, organi-
zation and system are employed in making Win-
chester cartridges of all sizes and calibers, the
natural consequence being that Winchester car-
tridges give the best results in any arms. Win-
chester cartridges are made in calibers suitable for
all makes of rifles, revolvers and pistols and are
sold everywhere. They are always satisfactory.
BF SURB TO ASK FOR THB RBD W BRAND .
AUTOMATIC
STARTS ITSELF! STOPS ITSELF!
-V ,
iiiliiiJfe
f
sdf
that is all
that is needed
to start or stop the patent
A
mm
JM=§
AUTOMATM ELECTRIC LIGHTING d/to'P'UMPING
INSTAKCTIONi
SIMPLE. - EFFICIENT
NO COSTLY ACCUMULATORS
PRACTICALLY NO ATTENTION
FOUR
HIGHEST
AWARDS
So/e Makers .
: R.A.LISTER*C9L™
= DURSLEY. G'tOS.
sdf
ELECTRIC LIGHT PLANT
(Lister-Brustoii System—Patented).
This plant generates electricity automatically, and does away with large and
expensive storage battery. Can he started from drawing-room or bedroom.
With the exception of keeping the plant clean, lubricating and filling the
tanks, no attention, is required.
Upon switching on the lights the plant works, and when the lights are turned
off the plant stops automatically.
The set is self-contained, and. is delivered ready to work. No erection or
foundations necessaryall one has to do is to connect to the wires to the house,
shop, hall, hotel, or town lights, am 3 fill up the tanks with oil. It is exceptionally
cheap as regards lighting costs, the user being able to enjoy all the many advantages
of electric light, at a rate per candle power cheaper than most systems of petrol
gas, acetylene,, and other artificial lights, and have current always ready for lights,
fans, cooking, pumps, saws, separators, milking and chaffcutting, sewing and other
machines.
Is absolutely safe and reliable; no smell or fumes, dirt or smoke.
LET US SEND YOU FULLER DETAILS.
Made in Sizes from 20 to 5000 LIGHTS.
AGENTS-
New South Wales: W. G. WATSON 8 CO. LTD., 171 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Queensland: WINCHCOMBE, CARSG'N LTD., Creek Street, Brisbane.
Victoria: SUTHERLAND 8 ASHMiiN, Flinders Street, Melbourne.
LOOKING FOR TROUBLE—
Assuming that you are a probable Engine Buyer, you must keep the name
MARSHALL always before you.
Once you pass the
MARSHALL Steam Engine
in favor of something cheaper, your troubles begin. It’s no use looking for
worry; you’ll have plenty, anyway.
“RELIABILITY” is Marshall’s Watchword, and every Engine is backed by
Marshall’s guarantee certificate.
£
•I
T'
Light and Heavy Pattern TRAC-
TION ENGINES.
Single Cylinder and Compound,
specially built for Australia.
Portables, 2 to 35 H.P., 120-1501 b.
working pressure.
Horizontal and Vertical Stationary
Engines, all sizes.
Marshall’s Vertical Boilers, 2 to 12
H.P., 1001 b. working pressure.
Colonial Type Boilers.
Special Engine Oils, Packing, Belt-
ing, etc.
Descriptive Catalogues Free. Cash or Liberal Terms.
WASTING TIME.
in
Probably more time is annually wasted with
faiulty Oil Engines than with any other
power.
“Time is money”—so why waste time in
using, an unreliable Engine.
Let us send you a catalogue explaining fully
the merits of
The “Big Chief”
Everywhere Acknowledged
“America’s Champion.”
This Engine is hopper-cooled and fitted with Wizard Magneto Extended Crank
Shaft, Double Ely Wheels and Muffler.
USES KEROSENE OR BENZINE AS FUEL.
Write to us for advice before placing your order elsewhere.
Catalogues Free. Very Easy Terms. Discount for Cash.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO. Limited
161 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Asset and Outcast, Too.
It looks as though the sacred liberty of the
subject to do as he, or she, darned well
pleases will have to be interfered with some
more if this country is to achieve the fresh
population it so badly needs. A measure to
Prevent People regarding Children as
Pariahs would be a splendid thing if it were
but practicable. As it isn’t, a similar end
must be attained by some other means. All
over the settled spaces of this vast popula-
tion-famished continent, the disquieting and
likewise scandalous spectacle is offered of
children, both locally-produced and imported,
being barred like discolored aliens. Their
presence is strenuously discouraged in flats
and boarding houses, and those in search of
furnished residences have their hopes of con-
necting with these rare prizes lessened by 50
per cent, if they are afflicted with an infant
or two. A chiidless married couple has the
best of chances to get emplovment. The
married folk who have eschewed the theories
of the late Malthus, and done their duty by
the State are turned down wherever they
seek a job “in service.” .The other day the
S. M. Herald printed this :
Some publicity has been given during the last
few days to the plight of an unassisted immigrant
who finds that, though both he and his wife are
seemingly fully qualified for country work, they are
unable to obtain employment owing to the possession
of two or three children.
It is a subject on which the a.ged paper is
competent to speak with the fullest autho-
rity, seeing that for years it has been pub-
lishing advts. calling for the services of per-
sons “without encumbrances.” What a
flamingly anomalous idiocy it is that while
the Commonwealth is paying out hundreds
of thousands per annum in maternity grants;
while all the States are fighting like tigers, to
secure immigrants and supporting expensive
staffs of officials to that end ; while we are
preparing feverishly to cope with the inva-
der, and while it is common knowledge that
we have but an outside show against him
unless our population is doubled within the
next decade —what insanity it is that under
all these circumstances a section of the people
should be allowed to selfishly stand in the
road of the best sort of potential addition to
the nation’s strength. Abortionists are
severely punished on the rare occasions when
convictions are got acainst them. Drugs and
other means of limiting the birth-rate are
seized by Customs officers and destroyed, if
attempts are made to import them, and their
manufacture locally is forbidden. The law
refuses to recognise contracts in restraint of
marriage. In every way the community
shows that, so far as the family is concerned,
it is all on the side of the big battalions.
The question, then, arises: Should individu-
als be permitted to discourage a tendency
which amounts to a valuable form of national
insui-ance? If the common sense and decent
feeling of Australia decide that they should
not it will presently be a criminal offence for
a newspaper to publish a “no encumbrance”
advt. Hotels which jib at children or em-
ployees with children will be liable to lose
their licenses. Up-country employers . of
labor who discriminate unfavorably against
married folks with “encumbrances” will be
fined, and on a sufficient number of convic-
tions being recorded against them, impris-
oned. Only by such means will the indigen-
ous child sret a fair deal. Considering the
tremendous importance of the matter, it is
worth going to even violent extremes to en-
sure that this priceless type of citizen should
get the deal in question.
—
Aldridge Evelyn writes from the other
side: —
Of all the alleged cures for phthisis, radio-active
menthol and iodine, pneumon-san, I.K. and the like
the most hopeful would seem to be the one lately
announced by Dr. Friedmann, of Berlin. It was
Koch’s dictum that when a non-virulent tubercle
bacillus could be obtained, the problem of curintr
consumption was solved. This Friedmann claims to
have done with the assistance of the ordinary turtle
of commerce, which, he has found, will, so to speak
draw the sting from any tubercle bacillus injected
into its carcase, while still permitting the germ to
live. The claim is that one injection of the serum
thus obtained will turn a dying man into a potential
football in six weeks’ time. Friedmann points to
900 cures in the same number of cases. But he re-
fuses to send his serum away ; he is disinclined even
to have it analysed in a laboratory ; but he will wel-
come any medical man to his clinics, and explain all
there is to know.
While the Berlin faculty strongly denounces Fried-
mann’s secretive methods, it allows that he has had
extraordinary success with bone and joint cases of
tubercle; but for phthisis it returns a verdict of “not
proven.” For his part, Friedmann strenuously denies
that his cure is one jot less effective for lungs than it
is for bones.
The way of the business is on parallel lines with
Nature’s mode of combating pneumonia. Therein,
the patient gradually gets worse until the eighth day’
when his temperature drops with a wump, and if he
has luck he recovers rapidly, the reason being that
pneumo-cocci in the end destroy themselves in
their own toxins. The live non-virulent tubercle
bacilli are injected by Friedmann. Being non-viru-
lent, the patient’s powers of resistance refuse to take
any hostile notice of them, and they increase within
their complacent host at the rate of millions, until,
as in the case of the pneumo-coccus, Nemesis overtakes
them in the shape of their own antigans, and they
perish miserably, taking with them—which is, of
course, the gist of the whole happening—the virulent
germs already in the system.
“Karee” on the Australian horse and
horseman: —
I think “Cavalryman’s” view of the case (B.
, 6/2/T3) is a bit too blue; and, being a foreigner, I
have no racial prejudice in favor of the Australian.
I think I can take, however, a dispassionate view,
after active service in cavalry regiments under four
flags, following experience of all kinds of horses and
horsemen in Europe. With that knowledge, my
opinion of the bush Australian horse and horseman
is very high. My personal knowledge of the country
certainly is small except so far as Queensland is
concerned. Here the bursting-up of big estates by
means of the land tax is practically non-existent;
and though the bosses use motors, they as well as the
“hands” talk horse when it’s not cattle, and on most
stations jumping is a Sunday sport, second only to
’roo-hunting. The average horse met with on most
outback runs would unseat the best European mili-
tary riders of my acquaintance. He is, however,
hardy and a good doer, like his rider, and most of
them stand shooting from the saddle at a gallop. I
grant that most Australians are bad grooms ; never-
theless the samples submitted to Kitchener (and mili-
tia horses at that) won his approval. That old war-
dog knew better than to try to follow the men of the
13th—recruits of four months’ training—when at the
Lytton Camp they charged through thick brush, down
a steep stony range, swam a creek, and then jumped
the two railway fences to attack a retreating infantry
column. He said frankly he did not think “home”
troops could face that sort of country. There are
plenty of horse-breeding stations up here, I mean of
good stock, which could supply the material re-
quired, if encouraged at all. Unfortunately, the
Indian buyers get the best of them.


I
CASTRATION-
EASY
Our Emasculator combines best American
Ideas with Reliable English Manufacture.^
It is the Best Instrument for Castrating Stallions. Colls,
Bulls, etc
Sharpe’s Perfect Emasculator
Crushes' before it Cleanly Cuts, making
Hemorrhage Impossible
RAPID SAFE MERCIFUL
Has just the proper power, and being made of best
Sheffield Steel will give perfect satisfaction for
many years EASY TO USE
SHARPE&SHARPE
18 Bridge Street, SYDNEY
FREE
Post 45/-
ANYWH E RE
Satisfaction or Money Back
Write for Knife and Vet. List
Veterinary Advice Free
sdf
sadfsda
f
asdf
SocKs and
Stockings.
The All-Australasian-Wool Hosiery with the
softness of silk. And unshrinkable, too!
If it s Just a matter of going into the nearest shop and
accepting any stocking you are offered you must expect dis-
comfort. Buy —the hosiery with the makers’ guarantee
behind it. fagn, is guaranteed all-wool and absolutely un-
shrinkable. These points alone make it worth your
while to insist on . But in addition has a soft-
ness only equalled by silk. Think what this means for comfort.
No other woollen hosiery has this feature. Therefore buy '3SSS&.
"JIaACJTL Stockings, Socks. nndUnderwear for Men, Ladies, and Children.
In all prices. **^4 GLdOTl* made Jerseys for children are splendid
wear. Of Morn’s Outfitters, Drapers, and Sto es. If your dealer does
not stock he can ODtam it from his wholesale house.
In case of difficulty write for “ Jason ” booklet and name of nearest agent to
128 Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, England. a
asdf
BA
to
Mq
-IiCONOMICAU " iZ
In 17 degrees and Copying.
Judged by every pencil standard, the Koh-i-noor is easily the best.
Its smooth, silken touch is inimitable, while its extraordinary durability
makes it by far the most economical pencil you can buy. One
u Koh-i-noor ” easily outlasts six ordinary pencils.
“MEPHISTO ” COPYING PENCILS.
Very popular for manifolding work,
giving the clearest of impressions
with the least effort. Try them !
“ALPHA” PENCILS.
An admirable pencil for office and
school use. Lasts well and writes
smoothly. Certainly the best at its
price.
Of Stationers, &c„ everywhere.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, Ltd., Koh-i-noor House, London, England.
Australia: 350, George Street, Sydney.
•qerm. “ nßfsssmms.
:
sda
'22 Cal. Repeating Rifle.
For almost 100 years the name
REMINGTON on Military and
Sporting rifles and shotguns has
been a guarantee of highest
quality.
REMINGTON
. The latest product from this factory even excels the high standard
maintained in the past. The Remington-UMC small-bore rifle has many
uew and important features. No other rifle on the market has all of
these:—
HAMMERLESS.—No exposed hammer to catch on fence or tree
branch.
SOLID BREECH.—Eliminates the danger of blow-backs, prevents dirt,
rain, etc., reaching the mechanism. A solid wall of steel between
the cartridge and the shooter’s eyes.
SIDE EJECTION.—The empty shell thrown downward from the side,
away from the line of vision and the shooter’s face.
REPEA 1 INC. Makes possible a number of shots in rapid succession
without loss of aim. Takes .22 short, long or long-rifle cartridges
without adjustment.
SAFE! Y DEA ICE.—Locks the mechanism and prevents accidental
discharge when carrying, but ready in an instant for firing when
required.
SIMPLE METHOD OF DETACHING BARREL AND RE-ASSEM-
BLING. No tools needed.
CLEANING FROM THE BREECH.—The breech-block quickly and
easily removed for cleaning barrel from breech.
ACTION.—Smooth, swift and certain.
These features, the beauty of lines and balance, high-grade of
materials used and most skilful and experienced workmanship, place
the Remington-UMC Rifle in a class by itself.
SEE IT—COMPARE IT with others THEN DECIDE.
FOR SALE BY LEADING DEALERS EVERYWHERE.
Australian Representative : D. D. BRYANT, Box 686, G.P.0., Melbourne. [2
Other Models from 7/6 to 40
Catalogues Sent Free.
MELBA
the ACCORDEON with
The Mellow Tone.
Is just perfection for song accompaniments,
Dance and Picnic Music. The organ-like
tone of these instruments is attained by the
use of Bell Metal Reeds which are hand
fitted and tuned.
3 Popular Models.
THE ORGAN-TONED MELBA
3 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 22/6, postfree.
THE DANCE KING.
4 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 30/-, post free.
THE PICNIC MODEL.
5 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price IS/-, postfree.
ALLAN & CO., 276 Collins St., Melb.
The Australian
Magazine.
THE LONE HANP
The National
Honthlv, 6d.
THE “ODDESSE” RAM PUMP
~ WITH “CUT-OFF” VALVES
FiG 1420
THE “ ODDESSE ” RAM PUMP, Combined Pattern.
For Heads up to 600 ft.,
and Steam Pressures up to
1801 b. per square inch.
♦-
Fig 1420 is a new design of Outside Packed Ram
Pump, suitable for mine work and similar duties.
The valve boxes are fitted with gun metal valves
and seats, each chamber being provided with a
separate cover for access. The Steam End is fitted
with the “Oddesse” Patent Valve Gear, with “cut
off” valves,
REGULAR FITTED PUMPS have close-grained
cast-iron rams and steel piston rods.
BRASS FITTED PUMPS have gun-metal-cased
rams and steel piston rods.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES
HAES & EGGERS LTD.,
163 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Add Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
Tbe Most Accurate "22 Calibre
REPEATING RIFLE IN THE WORLD!
STEVENS
VISIBLE LOADING No. 70.
fasd
fsad
f
You see the cartridge go in the chamber.
You know when this rilie is loaded.
Will handle indiscriminately, without ad-
justment, fifteen '22 Short; twelve '22
Long, and twelve '22 Long Rifle R.F.
cartridges.
Your dealer can quote attractive prices.
Weight, 4ilb.
Insist on Stevens.
Write for Rifle and Telescope catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL,
Australian Representative for J. Stevens Arms & Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, South Australia. [3
9
PILLS
BRIGHTEN EXISTENCE.
It is not difficult to know when a mild aperient
is required. One feels dull and depressed; tnere is
acid in the stomach, oppression at the chest, numb
pain in the back, possibly a sharp attack of indigestion
or biliousness and headache.
Cockle’s Pills quickly dispel all such distressing symptoms of disorder,
cleansing the system thoroughly, restoring tone and stability to the whole
digestive apparatus, purifying the blood, and generally renewing normal
physical conditions as well as mental brightness. In a word, Cockle’s Pills
brighten existence by keeping the body fit and well. The purer skin
and clearer complexion are the sure signs of it.
Of all Chemists, 1/li and 2/9 per box.
m
><iii
I
iieciaif HIS
9hk
JA V'S
UNSHRINKABLE
UNDERWEAR
The extreme comfort of JAY Underwear is ensuring for
it an ever-increasing sale in all parts of the world. It is
durable, economical, and guaranteed against shrinking.
Made of the Finest Australian Wool
All the wearing parts are strengthened by patented
improvements, and there are no irritating seams. Made
in all weights and sizes for men, women and children.
SOLD BY ALL HOSIERS AND OUTFITTERS.
Wholesale only: I. & R- MORLEY and GEO. BRETKt o. CO., London, England.
N.B.—The genuine JAY UNDERWEAR bean the above Trade Mark.
Will Anprape for BOOKS.
Any of these Catalogues
Free for the asking :
(1) Plays, Recitations.
(2) Conjuring Appar-
atus.
(3) Useful Books.
(4) Building Books.
(5) Mechanical and
Engineering Books.
(6) Medical Books.
(7) Socialistic Books.
(8) Sixpenny Novels.
(9) Australian Books.
(10) Athletic Books.
(11) Wigs, Beards,
Grease Paints,
Masks.
Easy Method of Learning French, German, Italian, Spanish, 1/7
each language; Speeches and Toasts for all occasions, 1/1 ; Every Man
His Own Carpenter, 1/1 ; Bernard Macfadden’s Building of Vital Power,
5/4; Macfadden’s Superb Virility of Manhood, 5/4; Macfadden’s Sweet-
hearts for Lives, 5/4 ; Amateur Conjuring Book, easy tricks, illustrated,
7d. ; Boxing and Self-Defence, 1/2 J Book of Love Letters, 1/-; How tc
Woo and Win, 1/1; Astrology Made Eafey, 1/1 ; Money-Making Secrets,
1/1 ; Minstrel Show, 1/1 ; Eight Popular Farces, 1/1 ; Sixteen Amusing
Farces, 1/1 ; Thirteen One-Act Farces. 1/1 ; Twenty Humorous Dialogues,
1/1; Home Amusements, 1/1; “How Old Mose Counted the Eggs” and
116 Other Humorous Recitations, 1/1'; Famous Dramatic Recitations,
1/1; “How Sockery Set a Hen” and other Comic Recitations, 1/1;
Famous Dialect Recitations, 3/1; 1401 Conundrums and Riddles, 1/1;
Art of Ventriloquism, 1/1 ; Hypnotism, Mesmerism and Clairvoyance,
1/1; Popular Horse and Cattle Doctor, 1/1; How to Teach Animal
Tricks, 1/1; What Young People Should Know, Confidential Talks, 1/1 ;
Dr. Faulkner’s Original Book of Nature, the only genuine and complete
edition, 3/6; New 1912 edition, enlarged, 32 extra plates, illustrating
female anatomy, handsome cloth cover, 5/-; New Tricks with Cards, 1/-;
House Painting. Paperhanging. Whitewashing, etc.. 1/1 ; 3000 Priceless
Secrets, 1/8; Irish Jokes and Witty Sayings, 9d. ; Complete Letter
Writer for Ladies and Gentlemen, 1/-; Dancing Without an Instructor,
1/-; Lover’s Guide to Courtship and Marriage, 1/-.
gm~AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT. Mention The Bulletin.
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
3] FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne.
Interior of Quirk’s Factory, showing Machines in course of construction
We Manufadure 2 Machines every day.
Over 1200 Machines already installed in Australia
ONE OF HUNDREDS OF TESTIMONIALS : Talbragar, Dubbo, Jan. 6, 1913.
Dear Sirs It is now about four months since your Air Gas Machine was installed in my
residence Its efficiency has exceeded all expectations; for light, economy, cleanliness, as well as
for cooking purposes, it is the best that I know of. My 20-Light Machine provides sufficient
light for all purposes, in addition to supplying gas for the stove. To be able to do all cook-
ing by gas in a country home at a moderate cost is a convenience that must appeal to anyone
making a gas installation, especially when domestic help is at such a premium. \Vashing you
all the success that your machine merits. I am, yours faithfully, (Sgd.) F. C. WAKE.
Directors:
Hon. THOMAS WADDELL, Chairman.
Sir JAMES GRAHAM, K. 8., M.D.
JOHN STINSON, Esq.
JOHN HAIN, Esq.
W. M. QUIRK, Esq., Managing Director.
Write for Catalogue giving full particulars
Messrs. QUIRK’S LIGHTING
and ENGINEERING LTD.,
548=550 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE, VIC.
68 Grenfell Street
ADELAIDE, S.A
117 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
116 Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE, Q.
Dalgety & Co.,
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
1
1
A
o
o
r\ APERTURE RIFLE SIGHTS
sdaf
That on the right is the world-famous No. 9
Sight for '303 Service and Match Rifles. These NW
Aperture Sights have won more King’s Prizes
and other honors than all others put together.
On the left is the well-known No. 8 Aperture
Sight for miniature rifles, which can be fitted to
practically any miniature or sporting rifle. Mr. A.
J. Dalton used this sight when he put up his world’s
record of 67 consecutive bullseyes. So did the win-
ners of N. S. W. and Victorian Championships. ...
Write for Special Booklet on Aperture Sights. Post free
D. Y. RENNIE.
Representing B.S.A. CO. Ltd.
Australian Buildings.
Melbourne.
sadf
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals..
Works : Birmingham, England.
sa
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
(over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention, is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Bos.
LECTURES ON BRITISH COMMERCE,
including Finance, Insurance, Business, and Industry.
By the Rt. Hon. F. HUTH JACKSON, G. ARMITAGE-
SMITH, M.A., D.Lit.. ROBERT BRUCE, 0.8., etc. Preface by tbe Hon.
Demy Bvo, 295 p.p. English price, 7/6 net.
W. PEMBER
reeves.
GOLD MINE ACCOUNTS AND COSTING.
A Practical Manual for Officials, Accountants,
Bookkeepers, etc. By G. W. TAIT. Demy
Bvo, 93 pp.
English price, 5/- net.
Of all principal Sydney booksellers.
London: SIR ISAAC PITMAN & SONS, Ltd , 1 Amen Corner,
m
STS
Protect your Farm Stock
by efficient Disinfection.
Use Izal! Izal is the pioneer modern high
power germicide. It disinfects thoroughly . No
fever or disease germs can exist where Izal is
used. It speedily destroys even Anthrax spores;
yet it harms neither
animals nor man.
One gallon of Izal makes 400
gallons of EFFICIENT DISINFECTING
FLUID. Protection ensured at the
smallest cost! Mixes equally well
with salt, brackish or fresh water.
Write for Free Booklet, “ Practical
Disinfection.”
Agents:
r. K. STEANES,
37-43 Pitt Street. SYDNEY.
fda
Guaranteed
to be of uni-
form disin-
fecting power
twenty times
stronger than
carbolic acid,
yet non-
poisonous.


75 Years
with Coughs
We have had seventy-five
years’ experience with Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral. This makes
us have great confidence in it
for coughs, colds, bronchitis,
weak throats, and weak lungs.
Aijer's
Wo want you to have confidence
in this medicine also. You cer-
tainly will, if only you give it a
good trial. Ask your doctor
what confidence he has in it.
Sold in three sizes.
Hard colds and coughs often
upset the whole system. The
liver becomes sluggish and you
have constipation, indigestion,
biliousness. Just remember
Ayer’s Pills are liver pills, act
directly on the liver. Dose, only
one pill at bedtime.
Prepared by DR. J. C. AVER ds CO.,
liowoll. Mass., U.B. A.
The'Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centurles-
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
in ue sine. 1586
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S- GREEN. 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
HIMRODS
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
Over 30 years ago the late Lord
Beaconsfield testified to thebenefitshe
received from HIMROD S ASTHMA
POWDER, and every post brings
similar letters to-day.
Famed for 40 Years.
Bert Remedy for Asthma, Hay Fever,
Rose Cold, or ordinary Cough.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
ASTHMA POWDER
The finishing touch.
>
Sr
l
THE
a
n
"KALODERMA
preparations are the most perfect of loner
Requisites.
"KALODERMA
Soap. Prepared with G 1 ycerine and Honey.
Luxurious and refreshing. The best Soap or
Softenine and Beautifying the complexion.
■'kaloderma;;
Face Powder. Unequalled for the "Toilet.
Refined and soothing. Can be had in Pink,
White or Cream. .
’’KALODERMA
Jelly, makes and keeps the complexion as pure
as the Lily. A most lovely Skin Emollient.
Absolutely free from Grease.
’’KALODERMA"
Is obtainable at all the Leading Establishments.
F. WOLFF & SOHN
KARLSRUHE Germany and LONDON.
THE Australian Magazine-TH B p £ONB
* HAND. The National Monthly. Pnc ,
Cured.
Any lady can cure the most violent drunkard—secretly—at home. GOhDEN
SPECIFIC has no odor or taste, and can be taken by the most delicate person
of either sex. It total'y eradicates all craving for stimulants, creating a last-
ing antipathy to alcohol in a few weeks. Many cases are cured in a few days
with this treatment. . . Send 2d. stamp for FREE SAMPLE and full particulars.
THE GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO., DEPT. 4, MARKET STREET, SYDNEY,'N.S.W.
1403.)
■3*
FLAT-CHESTED WOMEN!
Misfortune may have been your lot in so far as natural de-
velopment was concerned, but science has found a way to cor-
rect your deiiciency. Even though you have never been full-
bosomed, and although you have been attenuated all your
life, if you suffer from no wasting disease your bosom can be
fully developed and your weight increased to normal.
It is the refreshing firmness and delightful fulness of the
feminine form that captivates, and the woman who is most
perfectly developed is the one who monopolises the endear-
ments of the opposite sex.
No woman need stay thin and undeveloped. Dr. Falliere’s
Flesh-Food is a harmless, perfect, flesh-builder. It increases
the vitality and improves the general health. Some cases re-
port a gain in weight of over five pounds a week. Send 2d.
stamp for a free trial sample and free book.
FALLIERE FLESH-FOOD CO., 1103 Ash Street, Sydney (rear Equitable Life Building)
'm '
MR. G. VECSEY.
TORTURING VARICOSE VEINS
Many old, stubborn cases, even where ulcers of 20 years’ standing were
present, have been cured in a few weeks, the worst cases responding as
readily as those only recently developed. If you are a sufferer you should
obtain particulars of this wonderful remedy.
THE VECSEY METHOD of treatment quickly
■— stops the pain and sub-
dues the existing inflammation. Its continued application eradicates the
accumulation that distends the veins, and restores the valves and walls to
their original healthy state.
To sufferers from Varicose Veins the Vecsey Method of treatment
comes as a great boon. Previous to its discovery no painless, permanent
palliative was known. It cures the veins absolutely, so that they do not
return. CURES without laying up or detention from business.
FREE BOOK
Send a 2d. stamp or call for free book of full par-
ticulars. Consultation and advice free.
I THE VECSEY VAR/X-ARIUM, 3103 Ash Street, Sydney.
1409.
Congo Roofing is a tough,
pliable water-proof felt. It
can be laid by unskilled la-
bor, and will give ten years
of faultless service.
That “ten years” is ab-
solutely guaranteed by a
free Surety Bond issued with
every roll by the Royal
Exchange Assurance of
London.
Further details on request.
Congo Damp Course is a
tough felt somewhat similar
to Congo Roofing, which is
immune from deterioration
by dampness or acids. It is
used for lining the exterior
foundations of buildings to
exclude dampness and ver-
min. It is made in various
widths and is easily applied.
It is the most economical
kind of underground water-
proofing.
Australian Agents: —Noyes Bros. (Sydney), Ltd., Sydney; Noyes Bros. (Melbourne),
Pty., Ltd., Melbourne; Brabant & Co., Brisbane; Walter Reid & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton;
Elder Smith & Co., Ltd., Adelaide; Millars’ Karri & Jarrah Co., Ltd., Perth; William
Hart & Sons, Launceston; T. A. Tabart, Jnr., Hobart.
TOBACCO KILLS!
Face to Face with Death !
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a positive cure for
the Tobacco and Cigarette Habits, It is abso-
lutely harmless, leaves no reaction or bad after-
effects, and cures permanently.
Free Package Offer.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a trial
package of this wonderful remedy, together
with our Free Booklet, Testimonials, etc.
TRIAL PACKAGE often effects a CURE.
Mr. H. Smith, of Park Farm, Jericho, Tas-
mania, says: “I was a hard smoker for SO
years, bat since talcina your sample of Tobacco
Specific I have never had a smoke.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G,
107 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. [3.
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
■
SYDNEY : John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
MELBOURNE : Briscoe & Co., Ltd., Lit. Collins St.
BRISBANE : Webster Ac Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH : McLean Bros. & Rigg-
Aus. Rep.—T. Nicholls, c/o Sydney Agents.
PAGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman m
city or country should mis».
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUBHION APPLIANCE
Never mind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, snd SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women <ft children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Colline-st., Melbourne, Vic.
fsd
Big Stocktaking Sale.
GREAT REDUCTION IN PRICES.
D.8.8.L. Gun, top lever, choke bore, pistol err ip,
walnut stock, 12-gauge. Usual price, £3/17/6.
SALE PRICE, £2/17/6. COMPLETE
WITH CLEANING APPARATUS. TRIAL.
Special D.8.8.L. Hammerless Gun, fitted with
Greener patent crossbolt, top lever, automatic
patent safety treble grip. Usual price, £9.
REDUCED TO £7. COMPLETE WITH
CLEANING APPARATUS. TRIAL.
5.8.8. L. Gun, with top lever, choke bore, nicely
figured walnut stock, pistol grip. Usual price,
£2 SALE PRICE, 25/- COMPLETE
WITH CLEANING APPARATUS. TRIAL.
Special D.8.8.L. Pigeon Gun, with bar and rebound-
ing lock snap action, left barrel full choke, right
modified, nicely figured walnut stock, hammers
below line of sight, fitted with Greener patent
crossbolt. Usual price, £6. SALE PRICE,
£4/4/- COMPLETE WITH CLEANING AP-
PARATUS. TRIAL.
Mauser Principle Rifles, to kill at 200 yards, to take
22 long and 22 short cartridges. Usual price,
£l/1/-. SALE PRICE, 15/-
All orders for Guns or Rifles delivered CARRIAGE
PAID to any address in the Commonwealth.
SEND FOR OUR SPECIAL PRICE LIST.
Small Arms Co.,
IMPORTERS,
242-244 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Loveliness.
Mrs. Flora Drummond, when interviewed regard
ing the suffragettes’ latest outrage, exclaimed, “How
perfectly lovely of them! I am proud of suet
women!”
Winston, the Joss of the Home Affairs,
Had sate him down to dine;
The limelight gilded all the chairs
And rippled in the wine.
And while he thought, “How great am IV’
A cat that long days since did die
Came through the window of the room.
And struck him with the smell of doom.
And Flora said:
“How well it’s dead !
How proud and good and womanly!
How nobly, highly humanly!
How quite perfectly lovely !”
The Duke of Never-tax-the-Land
Stood at the holy font.
His ducal heir (brought up by hand.
As is the ducal wont)
Was in the bishop’s holy arms,
Which should be free from low alarms,
But —interrupted his “A-men”
By sulphuretted hydrogen.
Said Flo aloud:
“It does us proud.
How splendid and how womanly !
How nobly, highly humanly!
How quite perfectly lovely!”
A poet posted Christmas Cards
Unto his second best girl;
The kind beloved of youthful bards,
With springs and brooks that purl
Of loving each for all their lives —-
But girls who never would be wives
Left little use for postman’s knocks
By pouring vitriol in the box
And Flo exclaimed:
“We can’t be blamed.
So proud and good and womanly!
So nobly, highly humanly!
So quite perfectly lovely !”
The Royal Lodge of Rechabites
Had met to have a spree,
On toast and water that delights
To shriek its victory
Against the demon alcohol —
W T hen, Lo! a sound of “Fol-de-rol”
Came from the High and Worthy Grand!
He had a rum cup in his hand !
And Flo said : “Ho !
We hurt them so.
The abstinence of fifty years
We killed with surreptitious beers,
How quite perfectly lovely!”
A bishop browsed within his stall,
At peace with all, was he ;
The sunlight on the minster wall
He saw with chastened glee.
When suffragettes —all skin and grief
Despairing ever of relief —
Stood by envy of his somb-
Re peace —and ’neath him placed a bomb.
And Flora’s wish
Was: “Dash the bish-
On. Proud and good and womanly
We fired the bomb so humanly,
And quite perfectly lovely.”
The foolish thing requires no vote,
But infants by the score,
And some poor chap on whom to dote
Until she dotes no more.
The scheme’s to take the criminal —
No matter how he squirm or squall —
No matter how he fume and fret—
And wed him to a suffragette.
And Flora will
Be first to kill.
So pure and good and womanly,
So highly, nobly humanly !
And quite perfectly lovely.”
N.S.W.
R. BEDFORD.
The Web.
The witch who sits weaving behind the
clouds. , , ,
Spinning bride veils or thridding shrouds,
Leaned one day from her misty throne,
Saw where your life-reel lay alone.
Mischief brewing, the grey auld wife
Caught at the threads that make my life,
And in and out with her shining pins
There, where the scarlet splash begins
On the drab of her tapestry,
Mocking, knitted your life to me!
It is all forgotten by you to-day,
And the ravelled ends drift another way ;
Yet, at times, when the wind is in the skies,
And the silky web of the weaver flies,
I can see ablaze on its sober greys
The scarlet patch of those other days.
QUEEN SLAND.
M. FORREST.
Lay of a Lost Flapper.
But your young girls mature too early.
—Complaint lodged by an English matron.
Phyllis one short year ago
Was a flapper slender ;
Always had a schoolboy beau
Acting as a tender ;
Hair bows indicated that
She went not to dances,
And a simple muslin hat
Shadowed all her glances.
Phyllis one short year ago
Hadn’t got a “Agger.”
But the climate here ! You know!
Now her bosom’s bigger.
Many matrons haven’t got
Half what she possesses;
And her father pays a lot
For her hats and dresses.
Phyllis wears her hair up now
(She’s been duly “outed ).
Full-grown suitors to her bow;
All the boys are flouted.
There’s a slim young schoolgirl ma
In this ripe relation;
But you still detect the kid
In her conversation.
N.S.W.
THE OFFICE WOWSER.


A MAGNIFICENT INSTRUMENT
y -
• >
•»V
■
-ft
m
3KSMI
MMH*
'll
«
/•>
8
THE
AVON” PIANO
The very latest American Piano. Specially made
for hot climates and to withstand all changes.
An exceedingly handsome instrument, strongly
constructed, and as good as it looks.
Sold on Gradual Payment System or for Cash
Marcus Clark & Co. Ltd -j Opp.
Central Square,
Railway, SYDNEY.
You know that Bovril possesses
peculiar powers of building up the body.
Never accept a cheap substitutem
Insist on having
BOVRIL
By Appointment to
f
His Majesty the King.
I’LL
HAVE
THIS
waiwnucH
FOR MY
DRAWING
ROOM
w
?.r
V-
u
y.
> C*
L\
! 7 ill
WOMAN of refined and cultured taste has ambitious and
artistic plans for the decoration of her drawing-room.
Wunderlich Metal Ceilings and Wall Linings will help
her to materialise them.
For there is practically no limit to the diversity of appropriate and
individual treatments made possible by the number and unvarying
attractiveness of the “ Wunderlich ” designs.
Our Catalogue illustrates many which would perfectly express
your ideas.
You will be surprised at the small outlay which the use of
Wunderlich Metal entails, for in first cost, as in after cost, it is the
most economical of all installations.
Estimates free on receipt of the sizes of rooms.
A
Wunderlich Metal Manufactures for Building Purposes include Metal Shop-
fronts, Letters, Signs, Nameplates, Metal Roofing, Skylights, Ventilators,
Turrets, Dormers, etc.; Verandahs, Awnings, Balcony and Bay Windows, etc.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, BRISBANE,
HOBART, LAUNCESTON ; and at WELLINGTON, N.Z.
THE BEST STORIES written in Australia appear in THU
LONE HAND each month. Price Sixpence.
is-iKiswspsa"
% ■
-f .1 r *-,; ■.
•‘ COMMER” LORRY-3 Ton Capacity.
“C O M M E R”
Motor Lorries
INCREASE YOUR BUSINESS RADIUS.
Any good motor-lorry—such as the “Commer”—by its speed and capacity
must definitely increase your effective business radius. The splendid
features identified with the “Commer” Motor-lorry are specially adapted to
Australian needs and conditions. They withstand the severe tests of vears of
hard usage, and remain staunch and reliable servants under all conditions.
Capacity: 1 Ton to 7 Tons.
SPECIFICATION: Engine, four cylinders, cast in pairs; Bosch high-
tension magneto; gear-driven, also coil and accumulator; chain-drive, with
chain cases; automatic lubrication; efficient radiator; three, four and five
speeds forward and one reverse; direct drive on top gears always in mesh
with dog clutch drive; foot-brake on driver between gear-box and differential,
* ° g W
operated by pedal on foot-board; side hand brakes operated on drum of rear
wheels; internal expanding, positively taken on and off (on larger models a
special spring buffer drive is fitted between differential and gear-box, the
latter being of the “fool-proof” type); complete set of tools; ball-bearings
throughout.
ANY TYPE OF BODY FITTED.
Investigate the “Commer” fully—it will repay inspection. We will
arrange any trial or demonstration on request. Full particulars posted free.
DALGETY <& CO. Ltd.
Motor Oarage :
136-138 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission hv Post as a Newspaper.
Voi- 34.—N0. 1725.
THUUSD AY, MARCH 6. 1913.
Piucji 6iu
THE RIDER.
THE PUNTER: “Nice sort of a 'orse! You told me to back 'im, an' now I've done in all me splosh!"
THE TIPSTER: "It's not the horse; he's all right. It's the bloke that rode him."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper,
“Australiu lor the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Mac-
leod, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets,
Mosman, for The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214
George Street, Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum . . . . f 1 G 0
Half-yearly . . .. . . 013 6
Quarterly.. . . .. . . 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings Sterling you can have The Bulletin
;posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some-
care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements.’ etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. ‘‘The Editor, The Bulletin/’ is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters arc liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the form
of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short
Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Australian sub-
jects, and not exceeding two columns in length, or,
say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded with-
out stamps for return it will be understood that the
copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Personal
applications for return of MS. cannot receive atten-
tion. The Bulletin desires, further, those sending
MS. to distinctly understand that it is not respon-
sible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash, of
sufficient merit and interest and adapted for direct
reproduction, or any interesting photograph illus-
trative of a current event, will be paid for same on
acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea, but
unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., J/lil Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. IV. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; ll’. E. Lenehan, 585
29th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Bandolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., Pedder Street, Ilong
Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Anenis' Special Notice.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria. I Vest Australia, Queensland, Tas-
mania and New Zealand; and on account of Messrs.
Atkinson and Co., and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide—at
I//6 per doz. nett.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size, 6|in.
x l-’/in.. and gelatine transparencies, will be forwarded
on application. Larger metal plates can be supplied if
desired.
Hostage Hates.
Single Copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) :—throughout the Commonwealth, New Zea-
land, Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, lOoz. id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, 16oz. Id. Only one newspaper should be en-
closed in each packet — otherwise, So®. Id., and Bioz.
to lOoz., 2id.; lOoz. to 12oz. 3d.; elsewhere, I/oz. ~ld.,
and id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, MARCH 6, 1913.
THE LONG DRAGGED-OUT WAR.
Amid frost and snow, ar.d bitter poverty,
and cruel slaughter, the Balkan Confeder-
ates keep shoving the Unspeakable Turk
back towards Asia. What horrors they have
endured in the struggle it is almost impos-
posible to imagine, and it is a certificate to
the bad character of the Turk that even the
weakest and poorest of tha Confederate
nations regards these horrors as well worth
while if only the Asiatic goes out of Europe
at the finish. The European races which
have endured Asiatic rule for four or five
centuries have lost all the beautiful illu-
sions which gild the horizon of Bruce
Smith when he discusses the advisability
of settling our colored brother in the North-
ern Territory. They know Abdul and Mo-
hammed and Suleiman and all their clan
—not as they appear when held down to a
certain standard of political decency by
European rule, nor even . as they appear
when dealing only with their fellow country-
men and compatriots, but in all the mad
truculence which characterises them when
they are on top of a mentally superior race,
and the chance comes their way to jump on
the Christian with both feet. Then the posi-
tion suggests Sambo or Quasiiee or Jack
Johnson, suddenly raised to the position of
Dictator over a white people, and drunk with
the pride of his unwonted authority. In
fact, it is a worse position, for Jack
Johnson, as Dictator in England or Aus-
tralia, would only be differentiated from his
subjects by his descent, his ignorance, his child-
ish vanity and the glare of his gold teeth;
while in addition to these elements a great
gulf of religious fanaticism separates the
Turk from his European subjects. The
four little nations which are striving to drive
the Ottoman off the heritage of Japheth have
all had lone experience of him. Three of
them have been his subjects, and the fourth
has beggared itself for centuries in order to
avoid becoming his subject, and has spent its
lunch money on rifles and sold its boots to
buy ammunition. So they speak with some
authority on the subject of their old acquaint-
ance Abdul.
* * * *
The odds, on paper at all events, were
vastly against the Confederates from the
first. Compared with the 24,000,000 or more
Turkish subjects, all under one flag and one
Government, they mustered a mere 10,000,000
people. These were embodied in four
detached groups, and lived under four separ-
ate Governments, and they spoke at least
three different languages. They even fought
separately, save when, now and again, one
army lent a division or two to prop up the
cause of a hard-pressed ally. Excepting the
Montenegrins they hadn’t even the prestige
of old-time victory over their fezzed foe to
support them against the drawbacks of in-
ferior numbers, divided ambitions, and divi-
ded commands. Only one of them —Greece
- —had anything dimly resembling a fleet, and
the reason why that dim resemblance was
able to keep the sea was that it in-
cluded a big ironclad, which a patri-
otic millionaire had bought for his country,
instead of endowing a Conservatorium of
Music or a Dogs’ Home. And money was
desperately short —in fact, everything was
short except courage and boundless energy.
The Bulgarians robbed the cradle and the
grave, calling out every able-bodied male
between 14 and 00, save such as were abso-
lutely required to keep the railways working,
and thus feed the army, or to run such a
skeleton of government as had to be main-
tained. The Greeks, who are liable to 36
years’ military service, partly in the army
and partly in the reserves, came out in the
same wholesale fashion. So did the Monte-
negrins, who do military service for 45 years,
from the age of 18 to that of 63—two years
as recruits, 33 years as citizen soldiers in
steady training, and 10 years as reservists.
So did the Servians, whose term of liability
for military service is 32 years, but because
the Servian reservist lays aside his gun at
the age of 50 he is rather looked down upon
by the grev-bearded veterans of some of the
neighboring kingdoms. It was no army of
carelessly drilled and semi-mutinous school-
kids that the Confederates turned out. When
the chance came to wipe the 500-year-old
blot of Asia off the face of Europe they
staked everything on the chance. Banks and
insurance offices, shops and factories and
warehouses were closed; gas and electric
light were cut off; tram-cars and omnibuses
and cabs stopped; so did trains, except such
as were absolutely necessary; farms were
abandoned, and the cattle and horses were
seized for military service and paid for in
Government P.N.’s. Many of the courts of
justice were closed, and offenders, tried and
untried, went into the ranks, where
they and the Judge and the jury fought toge-
ther. Most of the police went to the front,
and doddering old inhabitants, too feeble for
the march and the firing line, took their
places. Churches, schools and colleges left
off duty because priests and professors were
toiling at the guns. Women of the richer
class, accustomed to a life of luxury, went
out gathering wood to cook their own meals
because, in the general dislocation of things,
the fuel supplies often gave out. The birth-
rate was abandoned, and the dead were
buried by whoever could find time —and a
shovel that the army hadn’t carried away. In
the Confederate countries —and especially in
Bulgaria and Montenegro—almost the ■whole
machine of civilisation stopped except, in so
far as children, women, old men and cripples
could keep the wheels turning. And because
of the neglected fields there is at least a year
of starvation ahead when the war is over.
* * * *
Yet with a full knowledge of the odds;
with a full knowledge of the horrors ahead,
for each one of the four States had fought
for its life against the Asiatic over and over
again; and with every reason to believe that
failure might mean political suicide, the
Confederates went into the game with a
light heart. It is not meant that they went
to war as a jest, but their hearts were light
because they felt that their cause was good,
and so long as they did their uttermost it
seemed impossible that Providence would
wholly desert them. It was no case of a
strong military tyrant driving his helpless
subjects into (lie field to gratify his own
ambition, but : a general uprising of the
people. Of the four Confederate sovereigns
none save the old grandfather-king of Mon-
tenegro. can be called either a strong man or
a notable soldier. Bulgaria, Montenegro
and Greece have each a Parliament of one
Chamber, elected on the principle of one-
man-one-vote. Servia has a Parliament
elected by all male Servians aged over 21
who nay about 13s. a year in taxes. These
strongly democratic Legislatures cheerfully
subject themselves and their constituents to
as much as 45 years soldiering simply be-
cause they know the Asiatic as no other
white race knows him. And the four
nations took their lives in their hands when
the time came because any chance seemed
worth taking to get rid of the old Asiatic
tyrant. Over 1100 years ago Mahomet
went to the mountain because the mountain
wouldn’t come to him. When the Montene-
grin army led the way at the beginning of
hostilities the position was reversed —the
Black Mountain went at Mahomet. And
when the Confederates started they kept up
the reputation of Christendom remarkably
well. A few years ago the writer met a
pleasant old Bulgarian lady who, as a girl,
had been ravished, along with every other
presentable girl, in the stupendous Turkish
massacres of Batak and thereabouts. She
made one statement that it was not easy to
forget. “No Bulgarian woman,” she said,
“will be otherwise than glad to lose her
father, her husband, her brother or her son,
so long as he dies in a successful battle
against the Turk.” It was in that spirit
that the Confederates shouldered the gun
of ages and went out to look for Abdul the
Damned.
* * * *
And that person, as it presently appeared,
wasn’t quite the old Abdul though he was
as much Damned as ever. There had been
a revolution in Turkey. Sultan Abdul
Hamid had gone into prison after 30 years
of muddled tyranny, and his brother, Mo-
hammed V., after 30 years spent dreaming
and drinking in a gilded gaol, had come out
blinking into the sunlight of affairs to potter
round on the throne in his old age. There
was a Young Turk party, and a committee
of Union and Progress, and an alleged Par-
liament, which was controlled by the Com-
mittee. And there was much talk of free-
dom and the equality of races. There were,
of course, the usual massacres, dirt, swindles
and incompetence, but where there had been
one big tyrant there were now 500 small
ones. The Christian, who had formerly been
kept out of Jthe Turkish army, was now
shoved into it on the ground that, under the
reformed order of things, he was a man and
a brother, and he was copiously kicked by
his Mohammedan comrades on the ground
that he was the same old “infidel.” The
Ottoman army struggled to the front,
haunted by a suspicion that the ancient bigo-
try was getting out of repair, and bossed by
too many masters. The new and much-
kicked Christian soldiers (still described
as “cattle”) were put in front to be
killed first, and they naturally ran
away to the best of their ability. The besc
general that the Ottomans possessed was
murdered in a twopenny revolt, headed by
the leading “reformer,” for not being better
than he was. 'Then the leading reformer led
an army on to the Gallipoli peninsula, and
being defeated and bottled up he fled in an
open boat, leading his troops to hunt for
shellfish for a living. And amid all this
decay and failure and misery the Turkish
population of Thrace was steadily clearing
out in its wooden ox-waggon back to Asia.
It came from Asia proudly in a wooden ox-
waggon half. a thousand years ago, and
having no progressive instincts it is leaving
miserably in the same vehicle. But whereas
it came along the old solid Roman-Greek
roads it now leaves per medium of the Turk-
ish slush tracks. It is roughly 500 years
since the Asiatic Ottomah first got his hold
on Europe. He got 'if because the little
nations of the south-east devoted themselves
too much to lopal quarrels and State
Frights. He consolidated his powers because
Demetrius Brucesmithopoulus of Con-
stantinople failed to see that only universal
military service could save him when he
collided with a furious Asiatic nation in
which every man was a soldier. And now
the Ottoman is going out because the little
Christian States have learned, by centuries
of blood and tears and shame and rapine
and torture and misery, that there is no sacri-
fice, however 'great, that isn’t worth making,
to keep the hoof of Shem off the neck of
Japheth.
* * * *
When the-story of the Balkan war is
written in full, it will probably rank among
the great struggles of the world’s history.
So, far, howfever, it is only known in a
sketchy sort «of way. The war correspond-
ent is at a discount these days. When he
was content to send his news slowly and
laboriously by post he was a welcome addi-
tion to the forces, but the telegraph and the
motor-car and his own insensate haste have
damaged him. A time came when the cor-
respondent attached to General Smith’s
army would fly madly to the telegraph office
and advise hfs paper in some big European
capital that Smith was concfentrating at an
amazing rate,' and that it was plain that he
intended to abandon his defensive policy and
launch an overwhelming force at the widely
dispersed arm*y of General Brown. Then the
paper would get out a red-hot special edition,
and 10 rainttes after it was out, secret
agents would* be making the wires red-hot
with full information to General Brown of
Smith’s doings and purposes. And if Brown
was worth his salt as a fighting man he
promptly gathered together every soldier
within reach, and threw his army at the
throat of Smith before the latter had time
to develop his attack. In this way an excess
of efficiency has killed the war correspond-
ent. He was fairly dead in the Russo-Japan-
ese disturbance. In the great scrap between
the Confederates and the Unspeakable, he has
been quite dead, save for such news as he
could gather ’from the wounded, from the
men who had'run away, from the clatter of
alarmed citizens, and from civil and military
persons who fcpndescended to talk to him.
Even the list* of killed and •wounded is un-
procurable, though there is reason to sus-
pect that the slaughter has been something
incredible. The assurance that the Unspeak-
able is burst depends largely on the fact that
he has bowed jhis lofty fez in conference, and
offered to giye up nearly all his ill-gotten
gains in Europe save Constantinople. And
there is every reason to suppose that that
city will go in the next war, and then the
Asiatic rule in Europe will be finished.
MAORILAND'S WANDERING LABOR
PARTY.
Labor in Maoriland is still floundering in
the Wilderness at the heels of any old
blithering Moses that happens to be out of
a job, or fired with enthusiastic ignorance,
or premature fanaticism, or anything but
the qualifications far the business of pilot-
ing the party'to the Promised Land. Up to
a few days ago Labor had been for some
time split into two main camps—one under
the red flag of the UedeTation of Labor, and
the other under the banner of the United
Labor Party, which was practically the old
Trades and Labor Councils’ party. The
former had half a dozen Moseses to lead it,
and they danced before the Lord uttering
weird war-cries, such as :
Down with defence. We mierht as well be ex-
ploited by a Chow as a Maorilander.
To Hell with agreements;
World’s wealth for world’s workers.
Blank arbitration ! Let’s have the strike!
We want Revolutionary Industrial Unionism.
The other show was more sane and stood
for Conciliation and Arbitration, and de-
fence, and so on. These two factions loved
each other with that affection which Cain
bore for the late lamented Abel. The
leader of the Unity party, “Professor” W.
T. Mills (who blew along from Milwau-
kee, U.S.A.), was gently reprimanded as “a
dirty hireling of the capitalist class” , a
;> wastei ‘ ; whi ] e associated S
lnm, or who agreed with his scheme of ! ■
tical salvation, were ticketed as “fakirs oni
frauds.” dna
Brotherly love continued on these i;„
until the echoes of the Federation’s recern
industrial crash at Wailii had partly died
away. The Red Rag brotherhood then
knocked off remodelling the social world fn
make provision for its mere existence in the
sphere of things. So it called a conference
and invited the “fakirs and frauds,” inelud
ing the alleged “dirty hireling of a cani
talist press” (Professor Mills had been
conducting a Labor page in each issue of
the Maoriland Times, published at Welling-
ton, but it was blown out with great sud-
denness about this time). Mills with Ed
ward Tregear (formerly secretary of the
Labor Department) appeared to represent
the Trades and Labor Councils, and thev
were practically swallowed whole. They
pledged their followers to an alliance with
or, rather, an absorption into, the Federa-
tion, despite that section’s staggering re-
cord for ineptitude and blundering. The pre-
amble of the agreement sets out that
Between these two classes (employers and em-
ployed) a struggle must go on until the workers of
the world take possession of the earth and the
machinery of production, and abolish the wage
system....lt is the historic mission of the working
class to do away with capitalism.
And other idealistic flam from the text-
books of the Revolutionary Socialists, Wor-
kers of the World and similar excitable per-
sons who pursue the Millennium with a salt-
cellar in one hand and a halter in the other.
Then in order to prove to the Unity fly that
it was fairly inside the Federation spider's
parlor, as to the question of defending the
white blood of Maoriland from contamina-
tion, its women from rapine, and its sons
from slaughter, it was decided: —
That this conference is of opinion that militarism
has always been against the interests of the workers,
and therefore condemns it, and is prepared to recom-
mend to all unions the hardy and valiant resolution,
calling a general strike on a declaration of war by
any of the Great Powers. And we declare our deter-
mined hostility to the form of conscription placed
on the M.L. Statute Book.
As regards Conciliation and Arbitration, it
was decided by the representatives of those
unions that had formerly been in favor of
that way of settling disputes to let partly
slide the principle so laboriously gained and
so long stood by. The advantages of Maori-
land’s Conciliation and Arbitration Act have
been great, even if in later years many of
the awards of Judge Sim have given griev-
ous dissatisfaction. Anyhow, it has a
superb record with a brass band accompani-
ment and blue flare illumination when set
alongside the “general strike” scheme of the
tatterdemalion brigade that made such a
monumental mess of running a strike at
Waihi.
* * * *
Instead of dodging the strike foolery the
Unity representatives were cajoled into
grasping it with one hand while retaining
some sort of a hold on Arbitration with the
other. Each union is left to its own choice,
as to registration, although, in the event of
non-registration, none shall involve another
in a strike without a consultation which
may include the national executive. If the
crop of recriminations and ill-feeling and re-
pudiation calculated to arise from that
scheme gets a fair season the Employers’
Federation will be able to recall its appeal
(issued the other day) for funds, “to combat
Socialism, syndicalism and anarchy.” All
the combat necessary will be provided by
the parties in the Optional Omnibus. It is
true that neither the word of the itinerant
“professor from Milwaukee.” W. T. Mills,
nor that ageing sentimentalist, Edward Tre-
gear, binds the agreement arrived at. Their
action has yet to be ratified (or discredited)
and the decision forwarded to another gen-
eral conference in July. Meanwhile, in
case any man has any doubts about the
national value of the work already done, let
him be told that (1) Robert . Semple. the
Red Federation’s chief organiser, declares
that “it proclaims for the abolition of the
waster class” ; Professor Mills opines the
time for action has arrived”; and (o)
Harry Holland is satisfied the conference
meant “the deatli-knell of the Massey Gov-
ernment.” Body of a dog, camerados, we
are nearly there!
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Giving the Enemy a Leg-up.
The leaders and supporters of Labor in Aus-
tralia require one stock prayer which may,
with all justification, be breathed morning,
noon and night and between drinks: Gue
us patience to deal with some almighty fools.
The which remark is induced by last weeks
strike of the gas workers in Sydney. Galiea
by a decision of Justice Heydon in the Ar-
bitration Court on Thursday which pre-
vented the Union getting a shilling a day ove
and above their previous bargain the me.
without warning to anybody skied their tool
and left the city and suburbs in semi dark-
ness and with barely enough heating powe
to sterilise milk for children and invalids, r
say nothing of the old man’s morning cnop.
On the word of the secretary of the Gas E
ployees Union: — ~
When the assistant secretary convened a
meeting for two o’clock on Saturday (nearly two» .
after the strike had commenced) he had ,10 . 1(1 ® a
ever tiiat the men would be all out. His object .
have a discussion on the judgment delivered by J
Hkydon. But he could be no more surprised t
was. -11 1
It is a weird admission to make, and wil ®
seized and dished up to the public in
entire radiance by the Joe Cooks and
Bruce Smiths and Gregory W ades a
Denhams and all the rest of the Tory gak
that never ceases to prophecy that Ha
rule means Chaos and Irresponsibility
Repudiation of Authority. Occasionally
prophetic pace of the enemy dies now
want of fuel to keep up steam, and Lab
leaders toil overtime to make up
tug back unions which have drifted *
from public confidence. Just now, wit
party’s great double fight for its retur
power in the Australian Parliament am
acceptance of the Referendum coming •
few more effective political waddies
have been placed in the weaponry o
other side than this latest tactless disp .
disregard for the first principle of Unioniw -
If union rules and regulations are .
paper, and elected officers may be kej


vond the confidence of the people they are
representing before the public and the em-
ployers, what in Sheol is the use of union-
ism? N( t more than a few days ago the
representatives of unions at the P.L.L. Con-
ference, sitting at Sydney, lifted up their
voices and wept and even cursed because
the N.S.W. Labor Ministry had gone on
strike against the Labor platform. Pre-
sumably the tears and language of
Sydney Gas Employees Union flowed with
the best of them, yet when an extra bob a
day is not immediately forthcoming the whole
boiling of gasmen turn and strike against
(1) their own officials; (2) the State Labor
party’s wobbly chance at the next election ;
(3) the flank of the whole Australian Labor
array. The futile excuse was put forward
the morning after the exasperated citizens
were made to bear the burden of the gas-
men’s grievance that the strike was “a spon-
taneous outbreak of indignation” against the
decision (on a point of law) of Justice
Heydon. Doubtless Heydon was one of the
least affected persons in the community.
Probably while tens of thousands of those
most sympathetic with the workers were
taking off their boots with one hand while
they held a match with the other Justice
Heydon was calmly reading the literature
of the law or the sparkle of the decanter
beneath the refulgence of electricity. The
Bulletin is not now concerned with the
question of whether the gas employees of
Sydney should be paid the extra shilling a
day. It takes it for granted that they should.
Eight shillings per diem can’t be reckoned
as quite a living wage in the great Ma City
nowadays. But when Labor owns the unions,
the Legislature, the Government, the power
to make any necessary amendment in he
Arbitration system, and the whole box of
tricks, and yet can find no better remedy
for a shilling grievance than to go on strike
against itself and its principles and the whole
community, it suggests gross futility and
incapacity. .
The Beginning of the Battle.
0,. day last week Cook and ' Sen *“”*
Mir.r.EH and Gould and aomebodyo „ p
importance, opened the Federal L.W c«
paien at Paddington, Sydney. It was * g
night within limitations the tm
the atmosphere into toam wi : st
„ ei r ploauence washed up against
great waves of loose eioquc
shore Yet after reading all the
Il'oi vocabulary, there remains a feeling of
emptiness at the pit of the mental stomach. Cer-
t titily there is much to be said against the present
Australian Government, but very little of it was
said. There was, for instance, a heap of justifiable
denunciation of the recent appointments to the
High Court Bench, but they are made, and they
can’t be unmade, and there is no evidence
that the Cook party would have made any better
appointments. Then there was a wild and silly
clamor to the effect that if the Referenda pro-
posals are carried, and certain self-governing
powers are transferred by the people from the
people in their State capacity to the same people
in their Federal capacity the deed will “rob the
people of their right of self-government.” Even
a dead ass ought to know that when both Federal
Houses are elected by plain adult suffrage, and
the people hold all the power and run the entire
show, it is sheer lunacy to talk of them being de-
prived of the right of self-government. There was
talk about the Coal Vend, and the postal vote, and
about “Federal extravagance,” which, seeing that
the Australian Government is the one non-bor-
rowing political outfit which Australia possesses
didn’t amount to so much as it might have done.
And there were cheers for the King, and obser-
vations about the sinfulness of giving so many
appointments to trade-unionists. But when a
community is asked to transfer power and office
from the old crowd to the new crowd it wants to
hear something more than the new crowd’s
opinion, or alleged opinion, about the old crowd.
That is bound to be bad, for if it was otherwise
the new crowd would have no excuse for demand-
ing the old crowd’s job. What the community
would like is a clear statement as how the new
crowd proposes to improve on the old one. For
instance, the Fisher Government hasn’t floated
loans, and it would be interesting to know if a
Cook Government would float loans or not. The
Ministry in office has wobbled miserably over the
route of the Northern Territory railway, and has
hung up the most essential public work in Aus-
tralia for fear of losing votes. What route does
the prospective Ministry that wants to be in office
propose to take? The Northern Territory land
policy of Fisher and Co. has been a dead failure so
far; the public would like some definite news of
the policy of Cook and Co., so that it might know
whether any improvement is in sight. The Cook
party has bitterly denounced Fishers tariff (which
has nothing wrong with it save its inefficiency);
his Federal bank notes policy (which also has
nothing wrong with it save lack of courage to carry
it to its logical conclusion), and his Commonwealth
Bank. What exactly does the Cook party pro-
pose to do about these three matters? Will it
lower or abolish the tariff, and call in the note
issue, and shut up the bank? These and many
more are the big affairs of the future the affairs
that may go far to make or mar the prospects of
Australia. The fact that Fisher’s plausible evil
genius, Hughes, put Bowers and Piddington on
the High Court Bench is a comparatively small
concern of the past. It is bad enough, but
it is done and can’t be undone, and the
fact that Cook disapproves of it is in the
same category, for plain business purposes, as
the fact that he disapproves of the Inquisition
or the Deluge. It is always the device of the
barren, shifty politician to denounce his oppo-
nent’s past in order to disguise the fact that he
himself hasn’t any future. But there is no room
at the top of affairs for the man who has his head
turned the wrong way, like that of the ghost cf
Michael Scott of Balvvearie, in Slieol, so that
he weeps chionically down his back over the
alleged sins that are gone. That sort of individi al
walks blindly and is always falling over the living
present. The demand is for a man who has a
clear view ahead, and a full knowledge of what
he means to do next—not merely a view of what
somebody else did last.
Hurrah for Ourselves!
While the newspapers are full of pica bead-
irip's shout the things Canada is going to do
Sf Imperial deten/e, while hats are thrown
U’> in commendation of Maonland s gif t o
TOTJ Dreadnought to the British ancl
while S. Africa prattles about its magni -
cent intentions to the accompaniment of deaf-
ening cheers, Australia has got past ~
st-aire of talk and scheming, and has ically
accomplished something. The cruiser New
Zealand left England on its world tour
in an atmosphere electric with lip-patriotism
“ d n « 5 «
born Maorilanders whcn the hing Hseil
the soraD-heap) would help to feep me
Fmnire together In the whirl and flutter,
h fe MSS wMlis
fralian gold, and is manned with an almost
oniirelv Australian crew, was permitted to
sUp away from its moorings and steam down
S Chanel without™ e— a lon.^nd
ligliil
r fhp uninspiring departure iiod £
Was it that , li„?„? m^h n cS a ;in P e t ital
royalties to The*who“
MiSou°U h !s of the case indicate ooce
the’people wh“ E” empW, make ">o.t ° f
the world’s noise.
3™Sn'NsKStt S >f
waten on ix.o. f'nurt has keel-
setting his course? Court
you don’t go out of Tweed River when you
can, you may stay on the wrong side of the
bar for three months.) But he missed the
gutter, and the vessel was wrecked. An
indignant Court viewed this loss of pro-
perty with horror, and deprived the master
of his means of livelihood for six months.
The next case was that of the Brundah, a
full-powered passenger steamer with 70
lives on board, which struck the main land
off Seal Rocks in broad daylight. The ship
was saved by a miracle aided by a bulk-
head, otherwise the passengers would, pro-
bably, have gone down with her. The Court
again failed to see any excuse for the acci-
dent, and spoke severely to the master for
assisting to risk the lives of those under his
care. They then suspended his ticket for
three months. Now, where is the solution
to the riddle, puzzle, ambiguity or whatever
it is?
The persistent Hop Poon Gooey case has
cropped up once more. Minister Thomas
has been notified that Mrs. Gooey has pre-
sented Poon Gooey with a baby girl, and
the decision now is that the lady must de-
part for China two months hence which
term seems splendidly liberal when one re-
collects that she has merely to be driven on
board a boat, and that an Australian mother
of 25 children lately walked six miles, five
days after her last child was born, m order
to register its birth. But Minister Tommy
need not flatter himself that Mrs. Gooey is
done with yet. She may find herself still in-
valid when the two months are gone, and
may desire, and get, a further extension of
three months, and before that period has
elapsed she may again be in the customary
interesting condition. Besides Mrs. Gooey
there is the problem of the new baby, which,
of course, has the right to dwell in Australia
as long as it lives. Mrs. Gooey may be
professedly eager to return to Chowland but
would perish if separated from her baby,
while Mr. Gooey, who does not want to
leave the Commonwealth, may be quite un-
able to contemplate a separation from his
new infant, who cannot be deported along
with her mother. Then will arise a new
agitation about the inhumanity of separat-
ing mother and baby or about the cruelty of
parting father and child, and the man who
couldn’t say “No!” at the first asking will
be made to feel that he is either an mhimian
monster or a person specially designed by
Providence for the role of fool in his own
comic rendering of the drama of White Aus-
tralia.
“0.K.” writes: —
The other week the editor of Melbourne Age
was fined £lO for contempt of court, on account of
some comments published in his newspaper concern-
ir„, certain finger-print evidence, whereby the police
were honing to hang an alleged murderer named
Thompson. The charge of contempt was based on
the assumption that the Age's comments made ligut
of the finger-print evidence, by stating that some
nhotos of the prints were “befogging to the .jury,
. than convincing. Anything calculated to
[ntence a juryTne way or the other during the
progress of a murder trial would be contempt of
P pnurse Anyhow, the editor of the news-
naner was fined £ 10. ' The Law that restrains news-
P from making fair, informative comments on
Th? ncidTts of a murder trial in court, is quite
the lnciaenisui h h grave scan dal
P r“tHal’b“e gl p y olic°e,” whTch endangers the life
of every person charged with a capital offence,
ot every _ *» previous to the acquittal of
T ''t^^the l ' allegation C that n they d had “S bright
with ( the al gno asgert ion, that there was a
to n fhe C v S « , y a newsp a pM°which N was°fined 'for
And S these
ft* ears of everybody likely to be summoned as a
juryman.
In all murder cases the prisoner has the (lamninff
allegations and suggestions of a circulating library of
policemen to contend with. Everything that could
be whispered against the prisoner is bound to have
been heard by some or all of the jurymen. In this
case, the whispering was particularly strong and
active, for there was a prize of £6OO hanging to the
conviction of Trotter’s alleged murderer. No tale
was left unturned in the attempt to get Thompson
hanged. But the law of contempt of court cannot
touch the publishers of false stories, spread to the
detriment of an accused person's chance of escape.
Nor does it even attempt to preserve the accused
from newspaper publication of mere police assertions
before the trial —such as the assertion that the case
against Thompson was “good.” or “strong.” The man
charged with murder is a disrespectable person as a
rule, and the Law is practically in league with the
nolice to give disrespectable persons a darned bad
time.
“Laborite” writes:—
A few days ago the N.S.W. House of Fossils was
handed out a testimonial of character:—
“I have much reason to be grateful to the honor-
able members of the Legislative Council for their
courtesy, generosity and forbearance during the time
I have been the representative of the Government.
Ready assistance has always been forthcoming to me
in the conduct of the business of the House from my
strongest political opponents. There is a personal
touch of kindness here, which finds a response in the
right place. I shall ever remember with feelings c.f
gratitude the cordial relationship which existed be-
tween the House and myself during the passing of
highly contentious legislation.”
The testimonialiser was Flowers, M.L.C., Vice-Presi-
dent of the Executive Council, and Flowers, M.L.C...
was gabbling the sort of stuff that makes a real 1
democrat sick. Nobody ever accused the of
being a boorish mob who would slay a political!
opponent with brickbats or defunct cats. Nobody
ever said they were anything but very nice, polite,,
fatherly, elderly gentlemen—just the sort of gentle-
men, in fact, who would be likely to treat the raw’
Flowers in the manner described. Consequently, his;
eulogistic remarks were merely so much superfluity,,
which the Fossils may, or may not, relish. When,
without any apparent necessity, you tell a man he is;
a gentleman you seem to infer that there was pre-
viouslv a doubt about the subject, and that isn t.
flattering. What has been charged against the House’
of Fossils is that as a legislative Chamber it is:
effete, costly, useless, non-representative and undemo-
cratic. Laborites are asking what has become oC
that leading plank in the party’s platform which:
provides for the abolition of the Sepulchre, Has
Flowers forgotten it?
Before any military person, attorney, or
other outsider is brought in to till O Calla-
ghan’s place as chief Robert of Victoria,
the Government ought to thoroughly satisfy
itself (1) that Sainsbury, the inspecting
superintendent, hasn’t got the necessary
qualifications, and (2) that nobody else in
the force owns them. Prima facie, feAiNS-
BURY seems to have a good case. He started
as mounted constable, and his qualities got
him promotion through every grade ot the
service; and, on general principles, a man
who is reckoned good enough to work on the
first 19 steps of a ladder seems worth try-
ing on the 20th —especially if the choice lies
between him and a man who hasn’t proved his
fitness for any one of the 19. Certainly the
Vic. force is nothing to be proud of or even
satisfied with; but one question is whether
the service is likely to attract better men it
the Government gives the few plums to out-
siders. And, after all, that is what the ser-
vice wants —better men ; not men who will
be satisfied with the plain Bobby’s place and
pay, but fellows with brains enough to take
the highest places when they have had the
necessary experience and the chance comes
their way.
Recently the local council decided that
Stawell (Vic.) wanted a £lO,OOO loan, £3600
of it to build a new Town Hall. Had this
been a matter of national politics, with a
McGowen party in power, the proposal
would have been dashed through amid tre-
mendous cheers, and the McGowen crowd
would have got the honor and glory, and
posterity’s share would have been the bill.
But, strange to say, the principle of the
Initiative and Referendum obtains in Vic.
municipal affairs; if a certain number of
ratepayers put up £2O and demand a refer-
endum on any matter of local administration
referendum it has to be. Public opinion in
Stawell being largely that it was not neces-
sary to pawn the place to buy a new lown
Ha'll, the £2O was put up and the matter
was submitted to the ratepayers, who vio-
lently banged the proposed I O U on the head.
Precisely why the people should have the
power in parish-pump matters to say whether-
or not money should be borrowed in their-
name, and not have the right in State or-
national questions to stop a McGowen:
gang, which it elected on a reduction-ot-
borrowing ticket, from becoming the vilest
kind of political traitor and rushing every-
thing to general smash, will take a pile or
explaining. Apparently Party Government
is good enough for the whole country but
not good enough for a fragment ot the
country.
If Joe Cook is the magnificent general the
Tory press makes him out to be, he will call
his gang together and decide what yarn it is
to tell the electors. At the present time
every member of the push is fluting a totally
different tale; and some of the yarns flatly
contradict each other. At Paddington (Syd-
ney) Senator Gould alleged that the-Refer-
enda if carried, would rob the people of
their rights of self government. On the
same platform Millen told them the powers
were not necessary and therefore should not
be granted. At Carcoar (N.S.W.) he told
the audience that it was useless to pass the
Referenda; the powers asked for would do
no good as “every power necessary for legis-
lation was already in the hands of the peopl
and the acceptance of the Referenda could
not increase those powers.” Just previous
to this Joe Cook had explained that the
passing of the Referenda would be equal to
exploding a charge of dynamite under the
Constitution. At Carcoar, Millen aso
affirmed that both State and Commonwealth
were able to deal effectively with Trusts, but
did not want to. In Victoria Irvine stated
that neither State nor Commonwealth could’
deal with Trusts under existing circum-
stances. What sort of a fool party is it
that goes out to fool the public without
having carefully hatched one fool yarn with
which to do the fooling.
Two of the reasons why things grow dearer
in Australia were expounded by recent in-
vestigation. The population of England
having doubled in the last 50 years, and the
local stock of cattle having rather declined
than increased, British buyers offer higher
and higher prices for Australian hides. There-
fore Australian buyers have to offer higher
and higher prices to prevent all the hides going
to England, and that shoves up the cost of
local hoof-apparel. Another point is that
Haw!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Liberals are not bothering about the fiscal ques-
tion—if it can be called a question—or proclaiming a
fiscal faith, for the very sufficient reason that the
tariff is not at present in issue. —Melbourne Argus.
“Haw ! Good fellow I’m n<?t doubting
Your intentions are all right,
And your general appearance
Is intelligent and bright;
But the question you’re discussing
Rather flicks me on the raw,
And it really doesn’t matter;
So we’ll close the subject. Haw!
Since the very first reformer
Made suggestions in the trees
All the old earth’s agitators
Meet with phrases such as these.
And it acts as brake and hobble
On the progress of mankind,
This superior aloofness
Of the static type of mind.
“Haw!” It rings throughout the ages
Since dim neolithic years,
Striving to discount the credit
Of philosophers and seers ;
And the richest, fattest mollusc
Spat it out in savage hate
When he marked his fellow’s yearning
Towards a structure vertebrate.
“My good chap, enthusiasm s
Right enough just now and then ;
But vour pose is idiotic
In the sight of sober men.
yourself, mv worthy fellow,
Stay that wildly wagging jaw.
The-ah-mattah you’re debating
Isn’t on the tapis. Haw!
Spoken in a haughty fashion,
With an apathetic glance.
Then that simple interjection
Clothes a mass of ignorance.
“Haw ! The fellow is a boundah !
Do not heed his fuss and fret,
And the subject he alludes to
Isn’t mentioned in our set.
Friend, if you have privileges
Fairly come by—more or less —
And the claims of poorer brothers
Cause you most acute distress
When all argument has failed you
’Gainst their Socialistic law
Cultivate the distant manner
And the haughty Tory Haw !
Cultivate the cold aloofness
When they seek with howlings rude
To assault your proud position.
Cultivate the platitude:
And. when they bring forth suggestions
Of a democratic type. „
Tell them, friend, it is un-Britisn,
And, “the time is not yet ripe.
When with calm, unswerving reason,
And with logic merciless,
They convince your better nature
That abuses need redress.
Do not weakly yield to measures
That your prejudices bate, „
But remark, “It’s not at issue.
And that closes the debate.
Still, my friend, despite your coldness,
’Spite reactionary “Haws.
These reformers somehow get there
When they have a worthy cause,
And the fat and foolish mollusc
Who the vertebrates ignored,
Did not block all evolution,
So the scientists record.
As the world ernes bravelv onward
Deaving molluscs far behind,
Progress ever has to reckon _
With the static type of mind.
\nd the fighters in the vanguard
Recognise this simple law,
“Social evolution mainlv „
Is the overthrow of Haw .
VICTORIA.
DEN.
Field-Marshal Bowyangs.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At a largely-attended meeting of the General
Laborers’ Union the following motion was unani-
mously agreed to:—“That this union views with
disgust the prosecuting of boys two or three times
for one offence, the taking away of their civil
rights, and the garnisheeing of their wages, and
urges upon the citizens to do all in their power
to lessen the birth-rate until the Defence Act is
repealed.”— Maoriland news item.
Yes, they voted him a fortune and the
nation’s grateful thanks,
For he saved them like a hero and a genius
from the ranks;
Well he knew his men and led them, so his
land can still afford
To pay honest white men’s wages at the bid-
ding of a board.
Men with picks and shovels used him in the
days before the war,
Just to illustrate their arguments and stop
a flow of jaw
Re the old eternal problem: Why should
all the good things be
Kept throughout the toiling ages for the
aristocracy?”
But since lie brought home the standards
and the parks of captured guns,
Why the friend of birth and breeding from
the subject simply runs;
For Bowyangs, F.M., is Labor from his hel-
met to his heels, ,
And he plies his trade of wheelwright midst
his field-guns’ shell-scarred wheels.
He’s the idol of the workers, and they tell
you with a laugh
That a lord is proud to serve him. (He has
two upon his staff;
And they gallantly attend him when he rides
abroad in state —
Yet, off duty, he’s been overheard to call a
private “Mate”!)
He’s an asset to the workers, for he’s popu-
lar with all, ~ , ,
And before his reputation olden hatreds melt
and fall; , , , , ,
He’s the product, born and branded, ot a
once-suspected caste
Who has proved he and his people can be
faithful to the last.
So the old class hatreds vanish, and, with
Bowyangs in the van,
Goes a young, war-hardened nation welded
by a single Man !... .
What a splendid dream to usher in a most
unsober morn ! .
Why the General D —n Fools’ Union won t
allow him to he horn!
N.S.W.
E. FRANCIS.


THE POLICY OF THE GOVERNMENT
IS BACKED BY THE SOUND
JUDGMENT OF THE PEOPLE.
“A WHITE AUSTRALIA”
. . .and . . .
“MACKIE'S
WHITE HORSE WHISKY.”
A GRAND DOUBLE.
I Esteb 1768
m
Estab 1742
fe LEER
1' Rfe*'
Crystal Palace SYDNEY.
Melba MELBOURNE.
Put the Difference in the Bank
An evening’s entertainment at our
theatres costs less and affords more real
pleasure to the whole family than any
other form of entertainment on earth.
The Picture habit is an
economical habit.
WHERE
EVERYBODY
GOES
Bull, having to a great extent killed his
own agriculture under Freetrade, had to im-
port, in 1900, 68,000,000 cwt. of wheat of
which countries outside the empire supplied
58,000,000 cwt. In 1912, things having be-
come still worse, he had to import
109,000,000 cwt. of which countries outside
the empire supplied only 50,000,000 cwt.,
because their population has so greatly in-
creased that they want more and more of
their food for their own sustenance. With
Bull in the market, offering steadily in-
creasing prices for his indispensable victual,
it is difficult to keep wheat from becoming
more costly in Australia. In another 20
years Bull will probably be buying wheat
and beef and sundries so feverishly that the
prices will shoot up to a figure not even
dreamed of to-day.
.
“Father of Fifteen” speaks a piece:—
After considering the case of a dead infant, who
had been overlain by his mother, Melbourne’s coroner
the other day delivered some hostile remarks anent
the practice of two generations sleeping in one bed.
The official’s animadversions were probably read by
a number of mothers who are not guilty of this
offence, and possibly by an odd one or two who are.
But a large number of ignorant females who did not
peruse the observations will still continue to en-
danger the life of Australia’s valuable infant. This
country annually loses about 9000 infants under the
age of one year, and 12,000 under five years. And,
having regard to the generally unsatisfactory condi-
tions under which the profession of motherhood is
practised, the loss is not surprising. We assume that
a woman is fully equipped to be a wise and efficient
mother solely by reason of her sex, just as it is
assumed that, because of the mere accident of sex,
women make economical housekeepers and more or
less bosker cooks. No such fatuous ideas are held in
regard to males. If Freddie wants to become a law-
yer, bookmaker, archbishop or tailor, he has to set to
work to learn as much as possible about the business.
But women enter the matrimonial profession with-
out any preliminary study. A female is not specially
endowed by Providence with an up-to-date knowledge
of obstetrics, hygiene, domestic economy and so
forth, any more than a male is ushered into the
sunlight with a profound acquaintance with law, medi-
cine, drapery, engineering, etc. All that Providence
does is to make one sex physically capable of mater-
nity, and the other of paternity. If we are to pre-
vent the wiping out of embryonic posterity, we must
take up the job where Providence has left it off by
teaching the mother her business. It is only reason-
able to suppose that were the profession of mother-
hood run on common-sense lines, the infant death-
rate would be considerably smaller. At present, the
Commonwealth is paying awav something like
£45.000 a year in bonuses for children that do not
live beyond 12 months, and are, consequently, of no
economic value to the State. And this apnalling
waste is very largely due to ignorance. John Bull's
Board of Education recently reported that in London
alone there were 100,000 defective children attending
■school, most of whom had been rendered either nhvsi-
■cally or mentally unfit through malnutrition. Things
■may bp a bit better here, but they are quite bad
'enough. The relative value of foodstuffs is one of the
■subjects of which woman is assumed to have a wide
■and accurate knowledge merely because of her sex.
Yet the appalling ignorance of such matters possessed
by a large number of females must be painfully obvi-
ous to any intelligent citizen. Little Muriel, aged
two. is often fed on anything, from green apples to
Irish stew. In fact, there appears to be a pretty
general impression that Mttrtel will positively thrive
on badlv cooked meat and fancy cakes. Undpr the
circumstances, it is scarcely astonishing that Muriel
frequently stops thriving before she is five years old.
The State wants kids who will live long enough to
become defenders and taxpayers, and there is some-
thing rotten about the State education systems which
make little or no provision for teaching the future
mothers of the race how to ensure this by seeing to
the health and general fitness of H'-uV oO’spring.
“Leo Lear,” from Victoria’s oldest settle-
ment : The Hentys, arriving at Portland in
1834, established the first permanent settle-
ment in the Southern State. They took on,
among numerous other industries, that of
whaling, and erected boiling-down works on
the beach. These remain there to this day ;
the old cauldrons and stone-work lie under
the shelter of Dutton’s Point, romped over
by kiddies and leaned against by lovers.
This Dutton’s Point is named after an older
pioneer than even Edward Henty, who when
he first saw Portland in 1833 found the
place occupied by a whaler and general ex-
plorer. William Dutton had arrived in the
locality in 1828; but he didn’t reside there
permanently, simply building some huts for
Ibis men, and returning to these domiciles at
.odd intervals. Hard by, on Whaler’s Bluff,
.overlooking Portland Bay, there are a series
.of humps and hollows, grazed over by the
itown cows. These scars on the landscape
;are all that remain of the first wounds made
■on Victoria by a plough. Further in is the
IRichmond Hotel, and I don’t know of any
(older pub standing in Victoria. It was,
however, built for a private residence —this
was in 1836 —and did not house a beer-
pump until long afterwards. Richmond
Henty, probably the first white child born
in Victoria, arrived in this old Richmond
Hotel on August 3, 1837. The place when
built was surrounded by a blue stone wall
Bft. high, capped with broken glass set in
mortar. This barricade was intended to
check the attentions of any Black Brother
who might arrive without an invitation. The
wall has withstood the winds of coastal Vic-
toria for close on 80 years, and is solid still.
Another ancient residence is Burswood.
built by the Hentys in the first days of
Portland. It is a massive stone affair, and
owes its chief interest to the fact that the
materials were all imported from the Cold
Land. Good building stone is as common
rohnd Portland as dust in Melbourne, and it
doesn’t appear a whit inferior to the rock
from overseas; but, then, this importing
craze always was a queer fish.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOIt COMING WEEK.
Royal “Hamlet.”
Her Majesty's “The Sunshine Girl.”
Criterion “Bella Donna.”
Palace “Prince and Beggar-Maid.”
Adelphi “Under Two Flags."
£ ivoll Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
National Amphitheatre Brennan’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric 1
Colonial , Continuous Pictures.
Empress /
Crystal Palace Continuous Pictures, etc.
Glaciarium / ~ .
Olympia \ West s Pictures.
Eden Gardens, Manly... The Dandies.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Puss in Boots.”
Princess’s “The Monk and the Woman.”
King’s “A Thief in the Night.’
Royal “Midsummer Night’s Dream.”
Opera House Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Wests Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric, Prahran Photo Plays.
Majestic Amalgamated Pictures.
Arcadia, St. Kilda The Dandies.
Esplanade, St. Kiida. . . . Smart Set Entertainers.
■ ♦
Walter Hamlet Bentley, or Walter Bentley
Hamlet, or Walter B. Hamlet, as the case
may be, at the Theatre Royal, is not a per-
son of deep subtlety or grave mystery, but
an energetic sort of prince who makes things
move along with considerable vigor. The
veteran actor’s voice is not the sort of article
he used to carry 20 years a?o, and there are
touches of bellowdrama about his interpreta-
tion which are probably introduced to make
up for the lack of vocal power, or crack-up
of vocal chords, or something. The change
is an improvement, but W.B.’s elocution
has lots to recommend it, and he does get in
fine points of expression in his lines which
rouse the friends of the late W. Sliakspeare
to much enthusiasm. Everybody who saw
his first night agreed that the play scene was
the best of the show, and that the King got
things rubbed in properly. Miss Stephanie
Dale, as Ophelia, was just Miss Stephanie
Dale, and Hamlet’s best girl didn’t appear to
any skyscraping extent through the diseuvse.
For the rest, John Cosgrove was a fierce and
snappy King in extensive orange-purple
whiskers ; S. A. FitzsrerMd. a venerable but
blithersome Polonius ; and the large and var-
iegated amateur support ranged from mid-
dling to awful in the usual thoroughgoing
amateur way.
All Sydney wives who desire to poison
their husbands—the yearning usually oc-
curs every Monday morning at breakfast
during the summer—are strongly advised
to see how the thing is done at the Cri-
terion before crudely experimenting with
lysol or bullets. Sugar of lead looks like
white Australian sugar; and by keeping
two sugar-basins, one containing sugar of
lead and the other the domestic article,
any experienced wife can manage the
troublesome business easily while her hus-
band is buried behind the newspaper’s ac-
count of the gas strike. Care should be
taken to keep the sugar of lead sugar-basin
out of the children’s way, as otherwise acci-
dents might happen. And it is as well to
warn sugar of lead novices not on any ac-
count to ring up Dr. Julius Knight to pre-
scribe for the sunstroke that hubby got
A stack of dead. Hamlet (Walter Bentley) dies
at Sydney Royal.
while chopping up the palings last Saturday
to boil the gasless billy. For a fashionable
nerve doctor he possesses an uncanny know-
ledge of sugar of lead. Miss Irene Browne
makes an admirable and light-hearted pois-
oner ; and no blame can really be attached
to her because of the failure of her well-
meaning attempt to remove an exceedingly
dull husband. Also, she poisons in such be-
witching gowns that much may be forgiven
her. A further consideration of her at-
tempted murder leads to the regret that her
admirable characterisation of the unmoral
lady in the first act does not develop the
strength required for her subsequent tense
dramatic conflicts with the Hebrew physi-
cian. The fact is that Miss Irene Browne
in light comedy is altogether delightful, as
witness her work in “Milestones,” but her
present youth does not give her the
strength required in a part that would tax
the reserves of a great emotional actress.
The thrilling drama of the last two acts,
however, seems to have attracted the Syd-
ney public.
v * v *
The congregation all stood up and reck-
oned it had had a fair return for its contri-
bution to the collection plate at the Palace
tabernacle (Sydney) on Saturday night.
Deacon Willanderson’s sermon was “The
Prince and the Beggar Maid,” the point
thereof being that it is easier to covet your
neighbor’s best girl than to get her. The
sermon (which has been given before by
Bishop Billanderson in Sydney) runs on
the stirring lines exploited by Rabbi Stanley
Weyman and deserves well of all denomina-
tions, including the Holy Children of the
Water Waggon. Pastor Anderson, with the
assistance of Sister Eugenie Duggan, Bro-
ther-in-the-bones-and-blood Cyril Mackay,
Brother - pray -on - and - weary-not Beckett,
Brother-in-the-Smoke-of-Gomorrah Max Clin-
ton and others will conduct service nightly
at the old stand, and will be glad
to see friends and other parishioners. Pews
may be booked in advance, but none are free
owing to the high cost of living. Those who
faint by the wayside may gather at the
river which flows over the counter of Bro.
Adams next door.
“The Sunshine Girl” is still illuminating
Her Majesty’s (Sydney), and although she
is a bright sort of female, her smile is not
powerful enough to light the homing play-
goer on his way to a distant suburb. In
the present industrial crisis “The Gaslight
Girl'’ is the Most Wanted Woman in Syd-
ney.
** * *
Miss Cassie Walmer, c/o the Tivoli, Syd-
ney, is in times gone by alleged to have made
numerous friends in Sydney; but she doesn’t,
so far, seem particularly anxious to keep
them. Anyhow, she merely ejects in a loud
voice the same sort of songs that have given
employment to hundreds of other ladies who
have been too nerve’-'’ to go into domestic
service. The gallery, nevertheless, seems to
pick up the choruses —which is the fault of
the choruses —and that’s about all that’s
necessary to make an artist “popular.”
Welch and Carbasse have concocted another
“screaming farce.” which would be improved
if both the lady and gentleman subsided con-
siderably. As for the rest of the programme,
quite a cleaning-up is promised. Last nights
are announced of Clias. Zoli. Staley and
Birbecks, Will Poluski. Rosie Lloyd and the
Maxini Bros. The new arrivals include
Henri French, who comes as “The Intoxi-
cated Genius,” and the Kreinka Bros., acro-
bats ; and the Zoug Zougs and Vaude and
Verne will rearrive.
“The Beggar Girl,” who has been taking
the matrimonial plunge with monotonous
regularity of late, the tank of bliss being at
the Adelphi, has been granted a decree nisi ,
to be made absolute on Friday night. On
Saturday, Ethel Buckley will, gas strike or
no gas strike, commence to pack into a single
evening the very crowded life of one Cigar-
ette, the lady who comes from Ouida’s
“Under Two Flags.” (N.B. —No collection
will be taken up at this show by champion
bulldogs and actresses on behalf of any
widows or orphans.)
Hz * ;!: $
“The Kings of the Forest,” a J. D. Wil-
liams picture wherein lions, leopards, etc.,
wander to within a few feet of the trombone
and then dash out into the plentiful dark-
ness, has been the highest-powered attrac-
tion at the Crystal Palace. The picture is
founded on a love-yarn in the jungle, possi-
bly of New York—and the lions are intro-
duced to prove conclusively that it is jungle
and not cow-paddock. Still, it is one of the
best wild-animal-at-close-quarters pictures
ever shown at the Palace. At the Empress the
moving-picture Indian in “The Redemption
of White Hawk.” has been touching the heart
of the Methodist Conference by turning
Christian, and refusing to mutilate any more
pale-faces—till the next picture demands it.
At Melbourne Princes Vs the eternal femi-
nine continues to make trquble. Brother
Paul defends the lady \. Kh a stick against
the armed soldiers of the King, until another
lot of armed soldiers, c. sguised as monks,
threaten to shoot the attau-ing party, where-
upon these silly medieval rabbits drop their
arquebuses and put up their hands, after
which the curtain falls on a situation that
delights the Marlowian audience. The Prin-
cess’s is always crowded these nights. In
point of dramatic novelty there is little dif-
ference between “The Monk and the
Woman” and, say, “A Sailor and his Lass,”
seeing that Paul is much the same oppor-
tune preserver of in-no-cencO as Jack. But
the aforesaid little difference, together with
the lovely advt. note of interrogation which
the harmless monkodrama brought with it
from Sydney, easily accounts for the rush of
patronage. Marlow's present bill seems
quite capable of lasting over Easter, when a
touch of topical interest might be added by
getting brother Paul to brandish a hot-cross
bun at the King and cry “You cannot v,
me now!” An incidental bun-Stra?*? 31 ? 1
the monastery would also go very wefi ln
* * * * eu ’
TI Unfit Friday night “The Qt, een ~
Highway will go on paying the L nal f t the
her rashness at the King’/ (MelF) \°,
Diamond, the sovereign lady in question 1 11
more than the rashness of a nff ’ a ®
Mrs. Pankhurst would probably escanp^at-
a fine of £lO or 14 days if she were 1
the Bank of England, but the
Queen seems practically certain to m P
bullet in her slip-bodice when slie still a
the mail coach. The dead cert duly eL Up
off. After mature consideration of the duf
trick which the demon dude-detective ni s H
on his disguised missus, this journal reckon
that highway robbery is one of the few Dm
fessions for which women are not
suited. The bill for Saturday is “a Thu
in the Night.” A lhlef
“PUSS IN
BOOTSHER
MAJESTY'S,
MELBOURNE.
Collins and Hart,
fancy acrobats.
The panto, at Her Majesty’s concludes on
Wednesday next. A pathetic incident of the
last three performances will be a distribu-
tion of farewell souvenirs to remind the pub-
lic thateven pantos are mortal. On Satur-
day (15th) “The Chocolate Soldier” comes
along, and for a few nights only that melo-
dious tale of love and war will be heard
again in Melbourne.
* * * *
The last appearance of the Asche Co. at
the Royal is fixed for the 18th. Meanwhile
a primitive young Ruck, whose notions of
blank verse are distinctly juvenile, continues
to drop flower-juice on the wrong eyelids
and make pleasing social complications in a
wood near Athens. Also, the limelight still
streams upon the sleeping Titania in such a
way that her fairy chiffons seem as naught,
and her pink form divine is a Midsummer
Night’s dream.
* % $ *
At the Opera House a noteworthy re-
arrival this week is Claire Romaine, the
buxom boy-impersonatress, and the gallery
is catching on to Claire’s choruses as before.
George Bryant and Co., Mozetto, May Quin-
trell and Alexander Prince remain in evi-
dence, but the Arabs are leaving to-night
(Thursday), having remained long enough
to emphasise the old-established fact that
the tinted races have no inventive skill in
acrobatics. The Patty-Frank Troupe puts
in some fine work that makes the Arabs’
turn look rough and ready. Moreover, the
white men preserve a dignified silence which
shines by comparison with the foolish hulla-
baloo from “the East.”
** * *
The elements are dealing so gently with
the open-air shows at St. Ivilda that Brans-
combe’s Dandies rarely bring their sliding
canvas roof into action, or catch cold on
the chest. Their entertainment is wearing
well. Songs frivolous and otherwise, inter-
spersed with patter and concerted fooling,
comprise Part I. and constitute Part 11.
Ten Dandies, including the pianist, keep the
ball rolling for an hour or two always in the
same old way, which is evidently the way
it should go. If all the year were summer
time The Bulletin would see no reason
why the ball shouldn’t go on for ever.
** * *
“Unmasked,” at the P’ran LvricfVic.), con-
cerns a bogus Marquis who, striving to gain
a lady’s hand and plant her best boy in a


ENGLAND’S Latest Light Car
STONEEEIGH
Weight of
Chassis, llcwt.
A
4
£2
r -m
—
SH'M Knight D.lmler Engine, Detnch.ble Wire wheel.. Worn. Drive, etc.
SUNSHINE Motor Cars P’t’y, Melbourne!
HUGH V. McHAY, Sydney & Adelaide I
Agents.
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KINO STREETS, SYDNEY.
FIRE ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc.
Lowest Rates Charged.
’ phone No. 236 Central.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
NABOB BOOT PASTE
Economical, Brilliant, Waterproof, Easily Applied.
Manufactured by LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney. [2
rocky grave, just misses realising his am-
bition as the film is fading into the outer
dark. The picture is a creditable disar-
rangement of shrieky episodes, and, apart
from being hopelessly ill-advised, the at-
tempted murder left little to complain about.
“The Touch of a Baby” contained much of
the sentiment that’s akin to bathos and some
of the bellowdrama that’s near to bosh ; but
"The House of Pride,” a tale of female
vanity and Yankee graft, set this critic seek-
ing complimentary adjectives.
** * *
“It’s Never Too Late to Mend,” adapted
by an Amurkan tilm-fakery, had an enthusi-
astic innings at West’s (Melb.)last week. The
picture was elaborately done, with just suffi-
cient accent on the villainy of John Meadows
to make the effusion bellowdramatic. An-
other instalment of the Panama Canal series
divulged further details of a mammoth en-
terprise, and the concluding chapter of
“What Happened to Mary” showed that
Mary was a little lamb. As for “Bloomer
and Lea,” its roaring farce dispersed the
gloomy feelings aroused by the sight of the
town of Rhodes trying to look impressive
in its slummy decay.
* :!s * sS
Adelaide Royal has got to work again
with Albert Edmunds’s “Native Born,”
which offers a fine fat part for Bert Bailey
and a welcome novelty in the inclusion of
Australia’s one snow-and-ice patch. The
Exhibition is getting ready for the March
Show, so Dampier and his popular “Dan-
dies,” well suited by these warm evenings,
have to get out of the gardens for a week ;
and the Wonder Circus has to move on to
Broken Hill with Mikko, the mind-reading
dog, and Tomato, the educated ass, and the
rest of the quaint attractions. Cannon, the
56-stone man, made the journey in a special
van. At the King’s, the Delinos are still
walking the wire, and the Delroys are jug-
gling. and Leonard Nelson, whose singing
of “Mr. Booze” is artistic, commits the
criminal offence of inciting lots of amateurs
“QUEEN OF THE HIGHWAY
MELBOURNE KING’S.
Melodrama Spasms.
Noble Bob In a tight corner, and plan thereof.
to have a shot at it too. In pictures, the
Pav. pegs away with a second lot of Pana-
ma Canal startlers, Wests show how the
feverish mosquito is suppressed wholesale in
those tropic climes, and Wondergraph pic-
tures the remarkable feats of cavalry in Por-
tugal, not hitherto considered the home of
dashing horsemanship.
Many strange things can happen to a man
in Sydney, but a visiting Maoriland press-
man seems to have fallen upon the limit. A
man of reputation (he has been chairman of
the Parliamentary Press Gallery and Presi-
dent of the Institute of Journalists, which
are the two highest positions the M.L. craft
can hand to a scribe as a compliment), he
walked from the Daily Telegraph the
other night, down King-street to George-
street. He was there told to get a move
on by a policeman (who, it transpired, had
been four months in the service) in such a
manner that, according to the subsequent evi-
dence before the Magistrate’s Court, he
threatened to report the officer. He pro-
ceeded on his way towards his hotel in
Wynvard Square, and was suddenly arrested
by the John in Barrack-street, taken to a
station, and lobbed into the cells. There
he was charged, not with loitering, but with
vile language. The only direct evidence be-
fore the magistrate was that of the police-
man and the pressman. The policeman
swore the language was used and that he
arrested his man in George-street. The
pressman swore the facts as set out above,
and called proof of character. The magis-
trate opined that there was perjury on the
premises, and, having said so, discharged the
newspaper man. Presumably now _ some re-
sponsible person will make inquiries as to
the perjury side of the matter.
AT POVERTY POINT.
From Jo Smith: I have read the critic’s notice
and one or two pars concerning my play, “The Bush
Girl,” which finishes its run to-night (28/2/’l3) at
Sydney Palace. For anything complimentary that
he may have said, I thank him. I have no doubt
the piece deserved both his censure and his praise.
I think he was niggardly over the latter, but per-
haps he doesn’t; and, anyway, he’s got the floor, and
good theatrical ethics teach me that I mustn’t squeal.
But when he expresses a doubt as to whether the
situation—the “damphoolish situation” —-at the end
of Act 11. was in the original script, I feel I may
butt in. I was puzzled to know why that “curtain”
did not “make good” in Sydney; whenever it was
done in Melbourne and in the western States it was
easily the most popular situation in the play. I
have since learned the reason. In my script it is
set forth that the boys who are instructed by the
Major to fire off the rifle match shall consist of about
24 cadets, such as used to be attached to our
State schools before the advent of compulsory train-
ing. They looked a serviceable lot —could march
well, were of good physique, and when they rushed
the bridge and fired their final volleys at the imagin-
ary targets, heedless in the noise and excitement of
the troopers’ commands to cease, it looked anything
but a “damphoolish situation,” and it earned the
praises of The Bulletin’s Melbourne critic, who is
not the softest snap in the world either. Of course
if the bridge was “held” by eight scrae-gy infants
in the rig of boy scouts, then I forgive the Sydney
critic, and I suppose I richly deserved his ridicule.
“Van Eck” : Huge Deal Mclntosh is still hustling.
He blew into Adelaide on Thursday last accompanied
by Mrs. Harry Rickards, and ran on to Broken Hill.
He returned to Adelaide on Saturday, and within
two hours had agreements signed for taking over the
lease of the new Princess Theatre from Sayers and
Lennon, Ltd. ; also, he will take a hand in building
a new theatre at Broken Hill, and intends to drop
in occasionally at Port Pirie and Port Adelaide.
“Haresfoot”: Many of us are grieved by the sad
news about Olive Berkeley’s distress in America (B.
20/2/’l3). She came to us in this way: J. C. Wil-
liamson was an old friend of Harry Edwards, of the
San Francisco stage, and struck the idea of bringing
Edwards to Australia with “Little Lord Fauntleroy.”
Edwards had left Melbourne for America about 27
years before.' He and George Fawcett Rowe had
managed the Melbourne Theatre Royal for Brooke. It
is said that Edwards was the only man who ever
acted “Timon of Athens” in Australia. This would
be on the Sydney side. At San Francisco he pur-
sued a hobby, and became the greatest butterfly
collector in America. Returning under contract with
J.C.W., he brought two Little Fauntleroys—Olive
Berkeley and Gracie Hopkins. I think he wanted
to open with Gracie, but Williamson preferred Olive.
She was by far the more handsome, but chubby and
smaller Gracie had more talent. Olive’s mother
acted in the play as mother of a scrubby boy im-
postor set up in rivalry to the real Fauntleroy. Her
trenchant vulgarity may be remembered —such a
striking contrast to the sweet and delicate Fauntleroy
of her daughter. Leopold acted Hobbs, the genial
grocer. George Selth, son of the Hon. George Selth
Coppin, was a footman.
“Harrison O.”: After viewing Kean’s production
of “A Midsummer Night’s Dream” at Drury Lane,
Hazlitt complained that a delightful fiction had
been converted into a dull pantomime. Much the
same can be said of Asche’s production, beautiful as
it is. Titania is merely a well-brought-up but rather
tired young woman, in fancy undress. Puck is a street
arab pure and simple. The fairies sing indifferently,
and dance on a lake on which the feet of some of
them fall with heavy thuds. Hippolyta’s amazons are
about the size of AVade’s mind or “Liberalism s
policy; and the alleged ass’s head worn by Bottom
would be rejected with scorn by anv self-respecting
pantomimic animal impersonator. The show is m
many ways theatrically impressive, but as a picture
of fairyland it is not much more convincing than
Snout’s impersonation of Wall, or Snug’s lanthorn
which doth the horned moon misrepresent.
George Dixon, whose scenic work at Her Majesty’s
(Sydney) some years ago was the feature of manv a
show, returned from London a few days ago. ror
the past seven years he has been painting in the
studio of Joseph Barker, in the Big Smoke, where
the beautiful work of the Oscar Asche productions
was turned out. Dixon has joined brushes with
that other well-known scenic artist, Harry Whaite,
at Sydney.
“Harrison O.”: The success of the Repertory The-
atre’s “Man and Superman” matinfee at Melbourne
Princess’s should induce Gregan McMahon to endeavor
to arrange to put on his plays in the afternoon at one
of the theatres —the King’s, Princess’s and Bijou would
practically always be available —instead of at night
at the inadequate Athenaeum. Since the inception ot
the Repertory Theatre three halls have been tried—
the Turn Verein, St. Patrick’s and Athenaeum—and
each has proved unsuitable. The performance of
Shaw’s play at the Princess’s, where Tanner s motor-
car did noff take up the whole stage and part of the
wings, was much more convincing than it was at tne
Collins-street lecture hall; and, what is more, the
big playhouse was filled. It is possible to lure the
Best People to a theatre, even when literary drama
is offering, but it is quite another proposition to get
them 6 to a place that is mostly devoted to flower
shows, lectures on the human inside, and other
strictly unfashionable matters.
“Chasuble”: Hannay’s new comedy of “General
John Regan,” just acted in London, recalls the stage
works of some other reverends. There is Australia’s
Rev. G. Walters, with “Joseph of Canaan,” and Hill-
house Taylor’s “Parsifal.” The Rev. Home scandal-
ised the Scotch Kurrk with his tragedy of “Douglas”:
“My name is Norval,” is the remembered titbit. The
Rev. Maturin wrote “Bertram,” the most horrific
tragedy ever conceived, except perhaps “The Duchess
of Malfi,” wherein Duke Ferdinand places her lover’s
dead hand in the claw of his wife. Edmund Kean
and Brooke used to act Bertram. Dean Milman
wrote “Fazio,” a play in which Miss Cushman and
others were admired. Rev. Dr. Young, author of
“Night Thoughts,” wrote “The Revenge,” often acted
by Kean and others. Byron, in his paradoxical way,
said it was better than “Othello.” It reverses that
play, with a white Othello and a black lago named
Zanga. “Oh, vengeance! I have followed thee too
far, and to receive me Hell blows all her fires.”
Rev. John Bate was a London dramatist in the 18th
century, and Rev. J. Genest wrote the longest history
of the English stage. Talking of Byron and
“Othello,” Byron said: “I won’t read Shakspeare.
He cows me. If I read him, I would not attempt any-
thing myself.” Goethe said a better thing: “We
steal the silver dishes of his apples, but only give
potatoes.”
“Propstick”: Brough said: “I have found out a
complete solution for all this difficulty about the first
names of people on the playbills.” The company won-
dered what this cutting of the Gordian knot by
Brough and Boucicault could be. Then the bills
struck everyone aghast. It was simply “Mr. Brough,”
“Mrs. Brough,” “Mr. Titheradge,” “Miss Browne,”
and so forth. There could not have been more com-
motion if boiling water had been poured on an
antheap. Even a strike was threatened. However.
B. and B. were implacable, and this plain fashion
went on for several years. Brough said: “What on
earth do you want to be billed with a first name
for? If it is absolutely needful to distinguish you
from anybody else, you shall have it. The old, sensi-
ble manner in London was simply “Mr. Kemble. Mr.
Kean, and the like.” One time, Musgrove had the
same trouble. “All right,” says Muzzy. The bills
came out with Miss Stewart and Beatty, and nobody
else mentioned at all 1 But that could never be
kept up, because the public says, “Ah, it’s a rotten
company, and the management is ashamed to give the
names.”
Maudie Thornton, the Ballarat girl who cut a few
bright dashes in comic opera and panto, on the Aus-
tralian stage, was “principal boy” in “Sinbad the
Sailor” at the Theatre Royal, Edinburgh, this year,
and the city of Auld Reekie seems to have taken to
her kindly. Her photo appeared in the Sketch re-
cently as evidence in favor of the continuance of the
she-boy system in panto.
FRANK
DIX,
THE
PRODUCER
OF THE
PANTOMIME .
“T.O.I”: A curiosity, in the shape of an old pro-
gramme of Rowe’s Circus, Melbourne, in February,
1854, comes my way. The circus stood on the
corner of Exhibition-street (then known as Stephen-
street) and Lonsdale-street, where George Coppin, in
1855, built the Olympic Theatre or “Iron Pot.”
Now for the bill: “Grand entree, the Venetian
Nobles ; the mighty deeds of Atlas, in a performance
with the revolving globe, by Mr. T. Nunn; graceful
equestrianism by Mrs. Yeamans; trick horse,
Othello, introduced by Mr. J. A. Rowe; principal
equestrian act, by Mr. J. L. Smith ; drawing-room
performance, by Mr. G. Lewis and Lilliputian Tom ;
pyramids, by the company; young Raphael in his
great act, ‘The British tar’ ; trick pony, Beeswing,
introduced by J. A. Rowe; J. L. Smith and Mr.
Yeamans, on two horses, as the Swiss pair; ground
and lofty tumbling, by the company. The whole to
conclude with the laughable farce, ‘Love in a Tub.’
Clown to the arena, Ned Yeamans.” Mr. T. Nunn
was Tom Nunn ; sometime ringmaster, clown, etc. ;
he was always engaged to “double” Clarence Holt in
“The Corsican Brothers.” He was subsequently
landlord of the Ilummums Hotel, on the corner of
Russell and Bourke streets. Tom erected a very fine
stone water-trough in front, on which was inscribed,
“Drink, and let thy cattle drink also.” Mrs. Yea-
mans was a Miss Griffiths, and began her profes-
sional career with a circus in Sydney. Her first
dramatic part was that of Little Julia in “A
Farmer’s Daughter.” She was born in the Isle of
Man in 1835, and at 18 years of age married Ned
Yeamans. In 1865 Mrs. Yeamans went to America
and plaved in stock companies in San Francisco.
On her '7sth birthday her companions of the Echo
Company, with which she was then playing, pre-
sented the old ladv with a bouquet and 75 crisp
dollar bills. She died the next year. Her husband
died in the ’6o’s. Mr. G. Lewis was, of course, Mr.
G. B. W. Lewis, husband in after years of Rose
Edouin. Lewis induced Tom Mooney, of the National
Hotel, to build him the Amphitheatre in Spring-
street, which subsequently was named the Princess
Theatre, having George Fawcett Rowe as lessee.
Tom Mooney hailed from ’Frisco, and returned there
in 1856. While in Victoria, during the agitation
by Wilson Gray and others to unlock the lands he
urged the policy of “A farmer, a vote Mid a rifle.
I think he got a hint to “get,’ and got. The
performers are all gone excepting Lilliputian lorn,
who is a resident of a Sydney suburb.
A competition in Pearson’s to decide the 12 people
who would be most easily recognised in the street had
the odd result of leaving all the theatrical people
out of it. Ellen Terry was top of them with 16b
votes, hut was nowhere in the general list, which in-
cluded three royalties (King, Queen and Queen Alex-
andra). five politicians (Llovd George, Churchill,
Balfour, Asquith and Chamberlain), three soldiers
(Roberts, Kitchener and B. Powell), and one author
—Hall Caine.
Hamer” : A letter from the Actors’ Union reached
the Barrier Labor Federation just as that body was
considering the question of shooing the non-unionist
off the premises, and the B.L.F. took no time to.
decide that non-union theatrical companies shouldi
not be welcomed at Broken Hill. As that somewhat
unattractive rising, hump, or inequality of the
ground is always considered a good port of call, the
decision will probably hit some theatrical shows
pretty hard. Labor organisations in several other
large industrial centres have already come to a
similar decision. The Actors’ Union, which has
already complained of bitter hostility and unfair
tactics on the part of its opponents, is apparently
going to work its industrialism for all it can, anil
gather in advantages in the places where to be a
union is strength. It now threatens to send a list
of non-union companies to the influential bodies in
all the larger centres, and the boycott may begin any
old time.
“Cockaigne”: Actor-manager George Alexander,
having reaped a small crop of glory as a County
Councillor, declares that he will stand for Parlia-
ment at the next election. Offhand, I recall only a
brace of Thespic legislators, both of Melbourne—
George Coppin and Morton King. Coppin, at only
39 years of age got into the Upper House amidst a
howl from the Wowsers. Afterwards he was in the
Assembly. When in the Council he introduced a
really grand measure, the Torrens Land Act,
borrowed from South Australia, simplifying titles,
Morton King was tragedian, auctioneer, M.L.A. and
magistrate. Between them these two rattled up a
nerformance of “The Merchant of Venice,” at Melb.
Royal, by members of Parliament. King was Shy-
lock and Coppin Launcelot Gobbo; and the Melb.
Hospital was £lOOO the richer.
Harry Roberts, who will pool his abilities with
the newly-formed Hamilton-Plimmer comedy co. to
tour Australasia, tells a good story of how he got
his chance with David Belasco. He (Roberts) was
engaged to play a small part in New York in “The
Price of Peace.” One day, at rehearsal, he was
asked to double up and play a bishop as well. The
bishop’s job was merely to read the marriage ser-
vice, and Roberts, being very young, reckoned it
was a slice below his dignity. However, he agreed
to do it provided he might put any name but his
own opposite the bishop on the cast. This was
agreed to, and “John Hinton” was used. When the
piece was produced, the critics did not give Roberts
a line, but they had a hatful of hallelujahs for Hin-
ton. They advised church dignitaries to go and
learn the true solemnity and beauty of the marriage
service. Hinton became a boom." Then one day,
when Roberts was feeling mad, an ascetic-looking
man appeared, and said to the stage manager,
“Hullo, old man ; you’ve got a chap named Hinton
here” (looking round). Up stepped H.R. “No,”
he snapped, “there is not.” “Oh, sorry for that,”
says the other. “I had a good part to offer him.”
“Look here,” explained Roberts, “I’m all there is
of Hinton, but my name is Roberts.” “It’s all
the same,” replies the austere gentleman; “my
name’s Belasco, and if Mr. Litt” (Roberts’s boss)
“can spare him next season, I can offer Hinton a
capital part in Mrs. Leslie Carter’s new play, ‘La
Du Barry.’ Do you think he would sign with me?”
“I’ll forge his name and chance it,” says Roberts.
Hinton never appeared again.
“Gordon G.”: For its size, Ballarat is the worst
show town in Victoria, or the world. On a popula-
tion of about 48,000, it runs three picture shows, and
nothing else. Any other form of theatrical entertain-
ment is to the natives almost unknown. During 1912
it sported, besides the pictures, a very occasional and
very heartrending vaudeville show, and about seven
more or less busted bellowdramas. J.C.W. and
Mclntosh shun it; and so far this year even Marlow
and Anderson have given it the go-by. I don’t
know what is the matter, unless it is that the old
Golden City is dead, and can’t drag even a decent
semblance of a dividend out of the bowels of its
inner consciousness.
The Pollards—no longer the Lilliputians, but the
“Australian Juvenile Opera Co.” nowadays—spent
their Christmas in Halifax, Canada. There are 39
members of the co. now, running from 14 to 20, and
thev are usually led bv “Teddie” McNamara and
Willie Pollard on the boys’ side and Queenie Wil-
liams, Eva Pollard and Pattie Hill on the girls.’
“The Mikado” and “Sergeant Brue” are the strong
suits in the present play.
Fred Elton drops a line or more:—
Cordially agree with “Aldridge Evelyn’s” (B.
6/2/’l3) arguments in favor of a vegetable and fruit
diet and the abolition of corpse-tearing. Edison,
Marconi, Eustace Miles, Haeckel and thousands of
other non-flesh eaters all testify that much more work
can be done and much more endurance exhibited on
nuts and other vegetables. On them, General H.
Walker, aged 81, walked from Land’s End to John o’
Groats. A band of Philadelphia grass athletes beat
a cannibal team by four hours at the hardest work
known (rifle extended up and down on haunches, be-
side which shearing or shovel work is a positive
pastime and most other kinds of labor mere child’s
play). Eustace Miles won every event on a bicycle
card (Aston, Eng.), one mile, five ditto, 10-mile, and
so on —the blamed old dashed lot! Flesh is not
necessary to our health and strength. I know, and
can prove, that uric acid fills our hospitals, our
gaols, poor-houses and lunatic asylums. It may even
fill our pulpits and museums for all I know to the
contrary. We are what we eat, of that there can
be no doubt; and as long as we are carnivorous we
shall love wars, strikes, bloodshed, prize-fights and
all such horrors. Until we give up meat eating we
shall be virile only, and our falling longevity will
gradually lower, until we shall be old men at 20.
The Bulletin begs to mention that there
is no falling longevity on the premises. It
is a creature or jim-jam of the imagination.
The span of life, especially among meat-
eaters, is constantly increasing.
A BONUS TO ART.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He is an actor dark and grim ;
With him the tragic role’s the thing.
No pro. can hold a light to him
As Hamlet or the Silver King;
But ’tis his grief that he must do
Whate’er his masters tell him to.
Said he to-day: “Me little wife
Will in a month or so bequeath
To this old world another life.
No longer shall I writhe beneath
The managerial tyranny.
’Tis then the higher art for me.”
“But how?” asked I. “How can this chick
Make such a difference?” He shed
A smile of pity, paused to flick
A fiy from off his beer, and said:
“With five pound one may go alone—
I’ll start a company of me own!”
VICTORIA.
S. S.
GAS v. GOSPEL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
However, one preacher remarked: “The light of the
gospel can penetrate through anv darkness and light
op the whole world.” —S.M.H. (3/3/’X3), referring tn
Sydney’s gas strike.
Maybe it can ; I will not say
That parson he doth lie to me;
But I will bet its fiercest ray
Is dull to electricity.
And, even if the Gospel’s light
Can penetrate the gloom opaque,
Where howls the heathen in the night,
I’m dashed if it will grill a steak!
The whole world may be lighted up
With beams of brilliance from on High—
-1 only know at home we sup
By candle light on cold tinned pie.
There is no boiling water now
To brew the whisky punch we love —
In fact, the gas strike is a cow,
Despite the Gospel light above!
N.S.W.
BILLY B.


FLEXIBLE
FIBRE
fsda
CABIN
TRUNKS
A reallv excellent. Cabin Trunk —made on a Flexible Fibre Foundation—it is extra strong—
•-"doubtedlv of the most trustworthy travelling trunks obtainable. It is covered with
Waterproof Canvas, so that, the contents are thoroughly protected. With each of its eight
corners capped with leather, and a leather at the front and back, extra strength is given,
mere is a secure lock, and it is fitted with inside tray. It may be had in Green and Brown,
measuring 30 x2lx 14 inches 55/- Also Size 36 x2lx 14 inches \so/~
We have a cheaper quality, with leatherboard foundation —also very strong—exactly
illustration.
Sizes
Price,
30 x 21 x 14.
42/-
36 x 21 x 14.
47/6.
Sent Carriage Paid to any part of Australasia.
as
DAVID JONES, LTD.
Opp. G.P.O.
Sydney.
m
-V
■m
■
-.*iM
t, >;v
Kugelmann’s
Pure Herbal
SKin Soap.
“Beauty’s Aid.”
Free * ampie sent on Receipt of
Twopenny Stamp.
Kugelmann's Pure Herbal Skin Soap may be ob-
tained at all Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia, at 2/6 per box of three large
tablets. If not obtainable locally, send Postal Note
or Stamps of any State, to the value of 3/- (includ-
ing postage), when box will be posted per return
mail.
Sole Proprietors:
H. E. KUQELHANN & CO.,
Wholesale Druggists and Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen Street, MELBOURNE; Ptt Street,
SYDNEY' ; and at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
Society
PENFOLDS
WINES
According to a story told to Sydney’s City
Coroner last week there’s a whole boat-load
of murderers raging round Sydney Harbor.
A thoughtless fellow took his wife and in-
fant out in a sailing craft on Sunday week,
and they were capsized. He got his wife
and child on to the keel of the overturned
boat, and, of course, it nromptly ducked
under and threw them off again. While
they were struggling in the water another
sailing boat blew along, circled round them,
and then streaked off without offering aid.
The woman and the baby were drowned,
and the man rescued with difficulty. It s a
ghastly business altogether, but one cannot
help wondering what sort of a fool a man
must be to take a woman and a baby out in
a 16ft. boat without a centre-board, in a
stiff nor’-easter, and without having life-
belts attached to his wife and himself so
that in the event of a capsize they would
have some chance of keeping the baby afloat
between them till assistance arrived. It’s
nothing but madness to take women and
children out in anything but a motor-launch
or yacht when a nor’-easter is sweeping Port
Jackson. So far the police have been unable
to trace the water-pigs who so gaily sailed
away.
“Ogalimite”: Fort Queenscliffe (Vic.) is
at present occupied by 28 of the festive
youths who refuse to take up arms in de-
fence of their country —or, anyway, dodged
it. They are, on the whole, of very good
stamp and behavior, and have fallen into
tlie hands of the new military police mostly
by reason of the fact that they were too
busy leaning up against the fence. They
are under canvas, and their spirits are high;
also their religious convictions are being
considered, so the Roman will eat fish twice
weekly and the Hebrew (if any) will be
considered likewise. What time he is not
undergoing the pangs of physical culture,
the delinquent has military discipline para-
ded before his eyes in the shape of a guard
of five men to see that he does not escape
over the low mud wall that prevents the
passer-by from stealing secrets of alarming
nature concerning our coastal defence. About
the only thing that he ought to get, but
doesn’t, is a daily lesson on the need of
national defence, with a history of the un-
pleasant things that have happened to
Korea and Poland and Provence and other
countries that have shirked it-
“Petifi” recalls an ancient tale —with a
modern counterpart:—-
For 38 weary years the mystery of the ship
Marie Celeste has baffled the theorists. Writers
have built stories on the puzzle; it has been talked
over in the fo’c’s’le, in smoke rooms, palaces, hovels,
parsonages, pubs, and other places, and the more
alleged light that has been thrown upon it the
murkier it has become. In December, 1874, the
vessel was spoken to in mid-Atlantic by the High-
lander, and reported “All well.” Two days later it
was again spoken by another vessel, but there was
no answering signal. Puzzled, the captain of the
other vessel ran close in and sent a boarding party
to investigate. The party found everything ship-
shape. Boats (there was not one missing) were in
their places on deck, and were seaworthy ; cargo
was well-stowed and in good condition; brass-work
was well-polished, and personal effects of crew and
passengers were O.K. A cold luncheon for the
passengers was set in the saloon, and that the ves-
sel had not been rolled by bad weather was proved
by a medicine phial standing upright on the cap-
tain’s table. Some sail was set. Yet there was
not one human being on board. And not one of the
hundred-odd aboard has been heard of since! AV’hat
became of them ? AVhy did they leave the ship ?
And how did they leave ? Now, just when one was in-
clined to class the story among impossible legends,
alongside Vanderdecken and the Flying Dutchman,
comes the weird yarn of Captain Claridge, of the
steamer Roumanian, which made New York Harbor
recently. He declares that he found, in mid-
Atlantic, the three-masted Norwegian barque Re-
mittent, 300 tons. It was undamaged, all sails
were set, but there was not a soul aboard. Evi-
dence that the vessel had been abandoned only a
few hours previously was abundant. The Rou-
manian took the derelict in tow, but had to cast
off during a gale. Is it another Marie Celeste
case? If it is, what is the uncanny thing that
lurks in mid-Atlantic, and so mysteriously empties
healthy ships of their human cargoes?
MURPHY'S BOTTLE
GAS MEN STRIKE.—POLICE PREDICAMENT.
But for a few flickering candles jammed in bottles the
police stations were in darkness. —News Item.
SERGEANT: "Now then, Murphy, what are
you doing with that bottle?”
MURPHY, P.C. : "Sure, an’ I'm ahfter imply-
in’ it for to make it a candle-shlick!"
Apparently there isn’t going to be any-
thing distinctive about Myolemargarine, the
Federal capital city, except the idea of put-
ting it on a plain littered with the corpses
of drought-stricken rabbits. One of The
Kink’s brilliant thoughts is to start business
with an “emblematical column,” of granite,
six-faced; and for the material he is going
to sponge on the granite-workers of various
parts. This, of course, is merely tearing a
leaf out of Oom Paul Kruger’s book. Want-
ing to commemorate events of 1881, and
having an empty Treasury to do it with,
Oom Paul called on each district to fetch
along a stone; and piled together they made
the monument of Majuba. But that was the
record of work done. The other is merely
the preliminary whoop of a jest begun.
A GENERAL SAMENESS.
SHE : “I suppose you say the same things to
the girls every trip?”
HE : “ I'he same things to the same girls, and
they say just about the same things to us."
From “The Old Soldier” :
It looks as if the AVar Correspondent would
shortly find his occupation gone—if, indeed, the
tragedy hasn’t already arrived. For some years
now he has been kept carefully out of the firing
line, and only allowed to see what the army he was
attached to thought fit. Still, hitherto, he has at
the worst been allowed to see something of he
trouble. The correspondents who went to the Bal-
kans, full of hope and ambition and high resolve
and a determination to staggbr humanity with their
thrillful yarns, saw absolutely nothing. With one
exception they didn’t even get material for a rea-
sonably convincing set of lies. They were bundled
en masse into Sophia and left there till the armi-
stice began. The only man who made good was the
famous Austrian soldier-journalist who made such
a scoop for the Vienna paper that had the luck to
retain him. He had the good fortune to be allowed
to see the official Bulgarian despatches, etc., as a
result of which he was enabled to describe, in detail,
every battle almost as though he had witnessed it.
Slightly biassed in an anti-Turk direction, of course,
but that didn’t injure the story to any extent.
The war-correspondent has largely killed himself.
There are too many of him, and he is too irrespon-
sible and dishonest. Half a dozen reliable, sober
practitioners of, say, the Bennet Burleigh stamp
would be endured with equanimity by any set of
warring nations. But four or five score of
yellow journalists are perilous propositions, and,
consequently, the tendency of Governments, com-
manding officers and privates alike is to treat the
correspondent with contumely. Take the painful
experience of Angus Hamilton. He was attached to
the Turkish army. He was caught hy a Bulgarian
cavalry patrol, threatened with revolvers and swords,
called a liar, tied to a cart-tail, and left there all
night, and generally treated like a dog. And that
about represents the opinion of the average soldier
in regard to war-correspondents within a few min-
utes of the gun’s first remarks.
The curse of a critic: —
Having decided to acquire some examples of the
work of portrait-painter Sargent, Melbourne Art
Gallery has secured a couple of “bargains” in the
form of utterly unimportant water-color sketches —
a Venetian scene and a landscape. The latter,
“Autumn on the Simplon,” is a confused' mass of
colors, vague in composition and entirely lacking
in the qualities which have won so much praise for
the artist’s best water-colors. “The Grand Canal,
Venice,” though more pleasing, is a painfully con-
ventional piece of work, almost completely spoilt by
an ugly mass in the foreground representing the bow
of a gondola. The picture contains some nice archi-
tectural work, but is in no way representative of
the artist. A feeling of hopeless protest surges up
when one considers recent purchases made by the
Gallery: (a) A doubtful Raeburn, (b) a ditto Rey-
nolds, (c) a Hoppner which is almost certainly a
fraud, and for which £2OOO was paid, although
four years ago the thing was sold for £165; (d)
Brangwyn’s “The Card Players,” which cost £630
and is inferior to “The Scoffers,” acquired by Syd-
ney for £400; (e and f) two undistinguished
water-colors by minor artists of the Glasgow school
forices £315 and £175 respectively). And now
these two sketchy things of Sargent’s, the price of
which has not been disclosed.
“T. Ofttt" on the training 0 f Australia
jun.
Let mo appear for the defence in the matter of
separate school cadet companies. There are all sorts
of good reasons why secondary school boys should
be allowed to drill together. 'The evening is the time
when they do half their real work. If they have to
go night-parading, it means a whole evening’s read
ing lost. Under the present system, drill fits into
the ordinary run of school work. There is the hour
or two of parade on the school ground, and then the
boys go straight back to class-room. Pearce’s
business is certainly to administer the Act so as to
promote efficiency. But the real fact is that the
school companies are the most efficient of the whole
lot. Down here at Geelong, for instance, the College
and Grammar School companies took first and second
place in the “area” marching competition. And in
shooting averages the school corps are always on top
The whole trouble seems to come from a sort of in-
verted snobbery in the P.L.C.—an uncomfortable
feeling that makes them anxious to assert at all
times that they are as good as anyone else. I don't
see why the question of manliness should be dragged
in. Vic. Public schoolboys had enough “manliness”
to keep up decent volunteer corps under the old
system ; sometimes as many as 80 per cent, of them
were enrolled. They’d stand comparison, age for
age, with the rest of Victoria in the games that
are supposed to mark out “manliness” ; and, all
round, they’ve no 6ort of “manliness” to learn from
Billy Jones, except the brand whose sign is blue
language and a tendency to spit on the carpet. And
that sort won’t help us to deal with an enemy.
“U.S.”: Claims for over £1,200,000 ster-
ling have been put in to the White Star
people by relatives of those lost in the
Titanic. And yet no claims have been made
in regard to Astor, Thayer. Hays, Stead or
Widener. Mrs. Harris wants £200,000 sterl-
ing for her husband, a theatrical manager.
The widow of Futrelle, a novelist, claims
£60,000 sterling; more modestly she esti-
mates at £6OO her own MS. of two novels.
A Mrs. Cardeza values her lost gowns and
jewels at £35,000 sterling; and another
woman wants £ll,OOO for 110,000 feet of
picture films. Of course the claims will be
decapitated; but, even so. their size is
enough to make shareholders in Australian
ferry and steamship cos. turn uneasily in
their beds when they wake at 2 a.m. and be-
gin to think of the usual unpleasant possi-
bilities.
* * * *
Bernard O’Dowd, besides being guardian
of Melbourne’s Supreme Court Library and
chairman of the Fibrous Plaster Wages
Board, has been appointed Poet Laureate to
the State. Certainly there hasn’t been any
Gazette notice; but that is a mere detail.
His first job was to write a “Welcome to
the Members of the Dominions Royal Com-
mission” ; the fact that Itider Haggard is a
member of the Commission suggested that
something literary was called for. The job
done, the Government bade the Commission
to a theatre party (“Midsummer Night’s
Dream” was the fare), and there, on a
souvenir programme, the work of the Laur-
eate was put into the members’ hands. And
it was good work, too. There are things of
O’Dowd’s which constitute Empire problems
that even a Commission might well hesitate
to solve ; but this one bore intelligibility on
A MODEST REQUEST.
“A there anything you'd like, old chap?"
“No; only the Earth!”
the face of it —or, anyway, not more than
2ft. deep. For instance :
And when, returned, ye speak as those who know.
Urge them at home our frontier call to heed ;
Tell them of zones we follow for their seed,
Of eggshell ramparts rising sparse and slow,
And sinister tornadoes that may throw
The temple down we builded for their sake,
And scour with tropic tides this British lake;
Ours is their need, as theirs would be our woe!
Which —being the O’Dowd way of saying
that if we don’t get a gun and more people
to hold it we shall probably fall in the soup,
and drown some of J. Bull Cohen’s best
securities —is alleged to have hit Rider Hag-
gard hard in the place where he keeps lus
literary sympathies.
THE THRICE ACCURSED SKIRT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It is therefore patent that some radical change in
the form of woman’s dress is imperative and urgent,
and as a first step toward that much needed reform,
let that ever-ready, insatiable death-trap, the skirt,
be at once abolished whether as an outside or under
garment. I do not presume to suggest what should
be its substitute, but in my mind’s eye I see attire of
a very pretty, neat, comfortable, seemly and hygienic
character, adaptable to all classes and to all weathers.
—Letter to Melbourne Age.
Abolish the Skirt !
It trails in the dirt
AVhen worn with a train in majestical way,
Or is flaunted around,
Hanging close to the ground,
From the waist of a woman old-fashionedly gowned,
Or “hobbles” the charmer in mode-ish array.
Loose fitting, or tight,
An indelicate sight
On a feminine figure that’s podgy or slight ;
Being meant to provoke
Giddy thoughts in a bloke,
AA T ho tickles his pal with a blue-tinted joke
Concerning the limbs thus concealingly girt.
Oh, abolish the skirt!
Abolish the Skirt!
And thereby avert
The dangers that threaten all spinsters and dames,
Or plain or good-looking
AVho, washing or cooking,
Stand close to a furnace, unheeding the flames,
Oh, think of the kiddies,
Young virgins and widdies,
AVives, daughters and Biddys,
Not wisely alert.
Poor creatures ill-fated,
Thus incinerated
Or terribly hurt!
’Tis true that dead bodies were better cremated
Than Ghristianly buried (as often is stated),
But any live body would rather have waited
Than taste in the kitchen the torments of blazes:
Aye, better decay with your toes to the daisies
Than burn to a cinder
AVhere no one can hinder
Tlie flames with a squirt.
Oh, abolish the skirt!
Abolish the skirt!
It enables a flirt,
AVith twisting and swishing,
To keep the boys wishing,
AVhilst grey-headed parents are tushing and
pishing
At all those devices
AA r hereby she entices
The amorous Percy to covet possession
Of shapes which are cramped in their means of pro-
gression
The pants of the harem
(Why can’t women wear ’em?)
AA’ould show the boys facts, but the hobbles ensnare
’em
By broadly suggesting
Legs more interesting
Than mostly are hid in inflammable gowns—
Quite bandy, perhaps, or knock-kneed, like a clown’s.
Though transparent trousers
Might worry the AVowsers,
And parsons would view them with scandalised
frowns,
They’d hold no illusions for Percy and Bert,
A\ T ho, backing their fancy, would bet on a cert,
Oh, abolish the skirt!
VICTORIA.
EDMUND FISHER.
THE TRANSI’AItEyr SKIRT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They walk against the setting sun.
The Wowsers made an awful row.
But I thank Heaven, when all’s done,
That we can see through woman now
VICTORIA.
SNELL.


EVERY DAY
mote people are proving that
111
is the best washing preparation for
blankets, flannels,, woollens and dainty
fabrics. Lux is scientific in its methods.
Lux coaxes rather than forces the dirt
from the clothes. Lux shortens the
work at the washtub —lengthens the
life of the clothes.
WON’T
SHRINK
WOOLLENS.
/
r
r* - -
' VI rr\ /
iV i u ‘ 11
\ l i
LEVER BROTHERS
LIMITED. SVDNEY.
never waits.
s “J;
t r ”f3!oto."SChamberlain’s C.u E h Remedy.lor
IS and croup. It *» *«• W *» I<>u »' tood ’
Wild’s Hairdressing Rooms, 30 Upstairs,
Sydney Arcade, George and King Streets, Sydney is
the proper place to go it you want the best of atten
tion Electric head and face massage done in the
latest American style. Hours of business: 8.30 to
6.30 ; Saturday close at 1 o’clock.
A Good-Wearing,
Stylish Boot
276
This model-style is a splendid boot for country or hard
city wear.
The heavy double soles .re n Kefs'££|?jK HORSE
weits —the uppers being of BTOUI
HIDE — w ith legs of selected box calf.
The toes are medium round—extended style— with
boldly designed caps. Stout leather lining throughout.
As Specified, PRICE 27|6
In Black Box Calf, 16/6 to 28/6.
Postage 9d. extra.
Please state size when ordering.
PEAPES g Co. Ltd.
Men’s
Outfitters,
309-11 George Street, Sydney.
fsd
New Catalogue posted on request
Cabled last week that, according _ to
“Ccockford’s Clerical Directory”—a publica-
tion without which the Religious Editor
never goes aeroplaning—no less than 30
Church of England parsons have disappeared
within the past 12 months. Now and again,
in the life of every holy orderer, there must
come a time when the long wash of after-
noon tea wears the gilt off the religious
gingerbread. When that drear hour arrives,
everything that goes to make up his tiny
round must seem futile. He can find no
comfort in the 35 pairs of worked slippers
he will never live to wear out ; the bedridden
oldest inhabitant seems a foolish old tyrant;
the winter flannels presented by the alleged
“gentry” to the poor look a poor sort of sop
for many years’ systematic extortion; the
empty pews suggest a yawning waste; the
scorned collection-plate seems a brazen mock-
ery ; and his own professional flat hat has a
low comedy look about it. The complete in-
difference of rich and poor, realised suddenly
in a dark hour, oppresses him horribly. So lie
decides to get out. But, because an ex-
clergyman is often looked upon by the stupid
with "superstitious uneasiness, he does a more
or less pantomimic exit, like the ex-reverend
now on his way hither with his lady com-
panion. Most of him, though, contrive to
r 0 cleanly through the trap, without the
’imelight and umbrella frills that eventually
spoilt the Knightly get away. In the leap
cowards a new life, an umbrella and a blazing
blue rocket are the worst sort of encum-
brances.
HOLIDAY MEMORIES.
Long, lazy days spent lolling in the surf.
The tragedy of the divorcing of Dorothy
Grimston Meyer by her husband is in the
fact that she has become afflicted with a
deafness which is said to be incurable. This
will prevent her from earning a living as an
actress. The co-respondent medical man is
married. The Court granted to Meyer the
custody of the children and costs. Dorothy
is left with the reflection that her parents,
the Kendalls, who stand for all that is most
“respectable” in the theatrical profesh in
England, were strongly opposed to her mar-
riage. Apparently it was an unfortunate
affair from the start. Meyer had the money-
getting disposition of liis race, whereas his
wife’s particular weakness was for getting
into debt. He proposed to cure her extrava-
gance by placing her with her children “on
the land” at lea (Vic.), where he bought a
property. There she remained for 16 months
on friendly terms with the local doctor, whilst
for nine months of the time her husband was
abroad on theatrical business. He had not
long been back on the land when he was
called away again to England, and then
Mrs. Meyer insisted on going to Melbourne
to live. The long absences of her husband
were certainly not calculated to reconcile
her to existence on the land. The doctor
was her sympathetic friend, and when grass-
widowhood goes motoring with sympathetic
friendship they are apt to toot towards the
divorce court. Justice John Madden once
preached a long sermon from the Bench to
the effect that a young wife with a mostly
absent husband was practically certain to
find a co-respondent sooner or later, but the
question of making legal allowances for in-
evitable indiscretions was not raised.
* * * *
Ivnibbs, Federal Statistician, having tra-
velled the dry main roads of the census sta-
tistics, turns to the lighter and gayer aspects
of his many-figured pastime. Most of us
w T ould find it difficult to spell “Presbyterian”
in a dozen different ways, but Knibbs had 32
different variations heaved at him, while 35
ways of spelling Roman Catholic were
achieved —Roaming Catholic being one.
Also, a devout adherent of the Shirts of Eng-
land was discovered. Of the many school-
masters two failed to specify the particular
institutions in which they acquired their
learning, one being “collidge educated,” the
other trained at a “collage.” Another man
who should have known better _ stated that
his house was built of “calvinised iron
probably an extra tough and stubborn variety
of metal. There were many quaint varieties
of religion—simple lifers, blue domers, blue
lights, Labor platformers, and so on; while
one lovely bit of sarcasm came from a tem-
porary confinee of a large prison—-he de-
scribed himself as a “secluded saint. T.ne
single men and the married women gave no
vent to their feelings as to their state of life,
but single women frequently added a more or
less sprightly comment such as “Not mar-
ried, still chasing him”; “hope to be some
day”; “an unclaimed treasure.’] _ Married
men solemnly informed the statistician that
they were “Married, wish I wasn t ; too
much married”; “married; O Lord, how
long,” and so on. The sample paper tilled
in as a guide to citizens led, to curious blun-
ders as regarded the reply to the query on
as -to any ’Varsity degree. Jhe
sample citizen was supposed to be B.bc.
Melb., and quite a number of persons
must have thought B.Sc. meant been
schooled,” a girl of 13 beimr put down as
B.Sc. Tally.iaroopna, an ex-Cockney cabby
B.Sc. Tottenham Court-road ,and others simi-
lar. A census paper is like \Vebster s dic-
tionary. dry reading but full of information.
The Boer rifle-trophies in Adelaide are
on the move. The Museum has now defi-
nitely refused to make room for them again,
the Government offices have cast them out,
and the Military Department—which already
has more than it can find space for is to
have the whole lot thrown on its hands.
There is the Torrens Lake, certainly, but
that has just been cleared of other and even
; less offensive rubbish at great expense , and
there is no swamp handy. # #
“The (Marine) Court was of the opinion
> (-hat- the error in judgment might be attri-
buted to the long period of 22 hours prior to
the collision during w r hich Attrill had had no
- So Mate Attrill, of the tug Alacrity,
which set out to find a ship showing signals
of distress, and bumped into her because the
onlv man on deck had worked right round
gets his sweat-stained ticket hack,
and is once more free to go and stumble
drowsily round the deep—-unless, that is, the
Marine* Board has a rush of brains to the
head and moulds a cast-iron regu ation to
prevent the overworking of tugboat omcers.
There are great possibilities in the air when
a heav? ocean-going tug is rustling through
the dark at nine knots or so, and the onlv
man on deck is having a stand-up fight with
Morpheus in the wheelhouse. As has been
demonstrated, there is no law to prevent it ,
and what there is no law to prevent will
assuredly be done, mankind in general and
employers in particular, being built that
wav * Anyhow, a man does not need to be
even drowsy to misjudge his distance from a
fixed light, as was done in the Alacritj
Arnoldus Vannen smash During the dis-
cussion over the amazing Wonga Shoal colli
sion, one Sydney launch-owner confessed
that after a few minutes gazing, he was fre-
quently unable to tell whether he was a mile
or a mere hundred yards from a t.
THE PILL.
YOUNG WIFE (approaching
milliners): “Could you
give me a little money,
dear?”
THE OTHER ONE : “Cer-
tainly, my dear; about
how little? ”
“Hamer”: I am moderately willing to
share in the public glorification of Scott s
heroism, but the greatest hero I ever met
was Willie Smith. Willie was a law clerk
on a microscopic salary, with an oppor-
tunity of making overtime, which he used
to the fullest extent; and he was popularly
known as Weary Willie because of his
energy and cheerfulness. Willie owned a
family and a wife. The latter was an un-
healthy person requiring any number of
trips to the mountains, and Willie contrived
to pay the price every time without a mur-
mur. On these occasions the little man got
the children dressed and off to school in the
morning, raced away at lunch time to teed
them, and rushed home at night with a
bundle of overtime work in his bag to see
that they had more food. It was haro
going, but by dint of working every moment
that he wasn’t washing the children s faces
or stuffing them with bread and jam. at
something which brought in cash, \\ilhe
contrived to keep the wolf and the bailnt
from the garden gate. He hadn’t much to
be Cheerful about, but he grinned all the
time When overwork made him ill he
laughed casually. It had become a habit
with him, and he couldn’t leave it off even
when at last his disordered inner mechanism
broke down and required a serious opera-
tion. When things were at their worst he
had to leave the office, but continued to
work at home until his last insurance pre-
mium was paid, the last instalment on lie
time-payment furniture made good and the
surgeon was ready with the knife. Fve
then he took things in lighter vein and when
the operation failed and Willie lay dying
in the hospital the frivolous expression was
still on his countenance. It may aoble
to finish as Scott did, but Weary Willies
end makes a stronger appeal to me.
It takes a woman to insist on the legal
pound of flesh. One of her in Adelaide had
difficulties with her husband. Then these
things happened. (1) They separated. (2)
She obtained an older against him for main-
tenance. (3) She made it up and took him
back. (4) She sued him for the arrears.
The Court said she was certainly entitled to
them, but hinted that if he paid-up to the
date of the reconciliation the matter might
reasonably be allowed to drop at that.
THE LAST THING HE WANTED.
FRIEND: “Come along, old buck. I've just got
the price of a couple of appetisers.”
POET: “Appetisers! O swim out! What!
want is something to KILE my appetite."
RATS!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The idiosyncrasies of councillors are permitted to
retard the public weal, and for one city father who
has a policy a score have nothing but a plentiful
aggregation of fads. —Melbourne comment.
In Hamelin, the story says,
A piper pied beguiled with airs
Through all that ancient’s city’s ways
A stream of rats, that down the stairs,
And up the cellar drains in pairs,
Came tumbling from their nasty lairs.
I would this gifted sprite might bring
His pipes along to Melbourne town,
And set the city streets a-ring
With witching tunes, while up and down
He lured the rodents big and brown
To Yarra’s turbid flood to drown.
’Tis not the greedy rats that lurk,
In musty dens beneath the leads,
Nor those that in the gutters work,
Nor rats that haunt the tumbled sheds —
Not these would choke the river beds,
But rats from alderr.ianic heads!
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.
LIBERTY ANGELS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Close packed in the cutters a merry ere
The launches tow them across Farm Cove,
Then Man-o’-War steps are covered with blue—
Brave lads with pockets of treasure trove.
Oh! the roving life is the life they love >
By farms and cities they set no store;
And Liz gives Polly a joyous shove
When liberty men are coming ashore.
As the white clouds march with the shouting wind,
I see another and whiter qj-ew
Going down the heavens some joy to tina
On another sea intensely blue.
Oh the brave white sailors of Paradise.
Like schoolboys out of the Gate they fly
And I know that Admiral God is wise
When liberty angels go down the sky.
N.S.W.
E. O'F.
THE DOUBLE LIFE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He was often away from home. Sometimes in
those lonely hours dark doubts would assail her.
—Shiver from a slush novel.
McPherson leads a double life;
I found him out but yesterday.
And he was walking with his wife.
(McPherson leads a double life!)
When barmaids grin and fun is rife,
He tries to “kid” us he is gay.
The hypocrite! The beery strife
He shirks to lead the double life!
I hate all liars. Mac is one.
No more lie’W praise our barmaid’s dimple !
His gay pretence with us is done;
My friendly eye I saw him shun.
Mac is a Wowser, pure and simple !
N. S. W.
NATHANIEL LOBSTER.


Mr. F. Maldon Robb, the Liberal Can-
didate for Bourke, addressed a meeting
in the Lyceum Hall, Brunswick, last
night. Mr. Robb said the party in power
bad climbed into office on a promise of
effective Protection, and they had abso-
lutely not lifted a little finger to help
Protection.
' fool/f-feh.no P Votes)'- W
v 7 v An^y. She's <ir o wnm^A
/ (diflo) M
/ W iou?" W
\ \TooK'.— I m busy'too.l I
But, to come to the point he wished [
to make, could generous people like I
Australians desire to have this open door >
to ail imperial posts—this equal claim to ;
occupy any and every post, in the House i
of Commons, on the front benches; may- J
be even in the Hou6e of Lords, and then 7
say : “ From the six posts of the State /
•Governorships in Australia we will ex-
clude all but the locally born.”
Strickland, in the West,
His £*c« Hency’.— &
. v/ood,
jk-elorv £< All Sof't'
dont" uqm Know V® u \rf\~os /
. fjooce of' Comwiois ortvcij/' (
t?c,PcerAge, "by
—d£dft -feir'tbiOj^W^
(-fo leVoeK) ’. ?
’. " Ko, 1 hr) 'trytrro +b re cover
old Hatl !!!
A few dog-lov£rs have jitsl expended
«ver £7OO upon the erection of a home for
lost and starving dojgs.
‘ —• — h? e y do
<^ovne^ > oA'j y “but
tvte - - -~"7 .
Governor-General DENMAN:—
There’s a name that long has lingered
in our King O’Malley’s fancy—
FISHER, O’MALLEY & HUGHES (staccato):—
Pretty pet name.
G.-G.:—
Which will lend itself to sentimental
ditty. The French had been before
him, or he might have chosen-Nancy,
F. O’M and H. :
Cho-sen Nan-cy !
G. :
For the title of this royal infant city.
F., O’M and H.
ToI-de-roL
<i.-G.:—
But, one night, when King O’TvTaTley
Watched the sunset in the valley,
Whilst he gently scraped the strings
of a viola.
One word an angel muttered,
As about his head she fluttered,
And the word the lady uttered was
My-o-la.
ALL TOGETHER:—
Like to moonlight on the water,
Like the smile of Pharaohs daughter.
Sweet as music 'made by fairy
pianola.
Was the word that stirred O’Malley
To his vitals in the valley—
Ornyola, O’myola, O! My-o-la.
O. K.
Lord Denman spiils a few drops of fizz
on the infant’s bald head, and the
three Ministerial troubadours repeat
the last Line with intense feeling.
Chßk>le.Nik(g sfs»n «sfe")
A CHRISTENING AND OTHER TRIFLES.


The Household Disinfectant'
Carbolacene
Cleanses and disinSects
in one act.
Fop Washing Dogs and all Animals.
Destroys Vermin.
A wonderful healer of cuts and
sores and skin eruptions.
In the siek room. Instantly des-
troys all germs.
For washing floors, paint work,
sponging carpets, etc. Removes
dirt, prevents disease.
In the bath and for washing the
hair. _
fas
df
U3ED BY ALL- HOSPITALS Ns>
Tf not obtainable at your Chemist op Storekeeper, send for tna
If not p<)st Fpee tQ any addre ss.
BRISBANE! MELBOURNE
Arthurlmuston a Sons. Moylan a Chancellor.
Mitchell & Bellair
SPARKLETS
“ASoda-Tounfam
on aTea-fray
Wanted in every
home in Australia
“ SPARKLETS Because
they will make delicious cool
and sparkling drinks in the
hot Summer days pure,
fresh and ready instantly.
Order a Sparklet Syphon
from your storekeeper
to-day, and your home
will be happier all the
Summer.
C. SYPHONS, 6 6 ea. C. BULBS, 2/5 dot.
B. SYPHONS. */« e»: BULBS t |/«lo|
asdf
adf
asd
fsd
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
Uneasy lies the head that wears a crown.
John Topi, “King of Ruapuke Island,” is the latest
royalty to feel trouble. His woe is poured out into
the Bluff (M.L.) Press, the newspaper handiest to
his kingdom. Here goes:—
Sir, —I, John Topi. Oblige me. I, John Topi,
am losing 100 sheep every year for 10 years, and
last year from July to 27th October my sheep were
rounded up at night ; I only saw the tracks of my
sheep in the morning. Looks more like they were
boated. All I am sorry for is the wool-buyers. Re-
port it for these people’s sake —the wool-buyers,
etc. Lost the pick of my lambs last week. Good
thieving! Ten years, lots long enough for John
Topi. Sheep-stealing—it’s getting common on Rua-
puke. It’s time it’s going to be stopped. All thieves
to leave Ruapuke Island. Honesty and virtue is
going to be the flag of Ruapuke. So please put this
in for me. The dam thief will be found. Fancy me
losing the pick of my lambs. I am sorry to do it,
but thieving must be stopped under no consideration.
I have been losing from £5O to £6O for 10 years in
sheep. So this year the man’s that shorn my sheep,
his wool-buyer pays me £2OOO. Honesty and virtue
Ruapuke’s flag. All thieves to leave Ruapuke Island.
This is to much of a good thing to live cheap on
other people’s work.
THE NERVE TEST.
Granting an aviator’s license, 1950.
“Sarto”: Passed through Albury(N.S.W.)
the other day, the following weird procession: Dad,
age somewhere near the Old-Age-Pension mark, in the
shafts of a tilted cart (two-wheeler) ; Mum, pushing
behind. Carrying a billy of water in one hand ; in
the lead, and helping per rope attached to shafts, a
youth, very lame. And, riding in the cart, amongst
the requirements of travel, Baby Australia, evidently
enjoying the trip. This family had travelled thus-
wise from Tarcutta, a distance of some 90 miles. I
don’t know where it was going to, but it vanished
over the sky-line, evidently bound for somewhere on
the old Oblivion Road.
“11. G.” : The persistency with which it is
held that white men are not permitted to witness
black brother’s circumcision rite (practised by Bin-
ghi practically all over Australia) calls for evi-
dence to the contrary. I have seen the operation
performed twice, once when I visited the Daly River
smelter with the then Government Resident (Mr.
Justice Herbert), and once elsewhere. On both occa-
sions, other writers notwithstanding, the business
was conducted in the morning. At the Daly River
the lad operated on was about 17 years of age, and
several lusty fellows held him down. They also did
an amount of howling, to save him the trouble, so
they explained, but evidently to drown his efforts.
The old man of the tribe was the chief surgeon.
The time during which the boy must abstain from
various foods varies. I offered a boy on the West
Arm, who had been a “man” for two years, a shil-
ling if he would eat an egg. He refused for fear he
would “close up die,” and this with a Chinese store
near by, where square gin was procurable. The
probability is that some old nigger in bygone days,
when there was a scarcity of food, established the
custom. Under it the able-bodied young men have
to hunt the food which is hard to procure, while to
the piccaninnies, lubras and old men is left the eggs,
gohannas, etc. Sub-incision is practised only in the
districts where food is scarce, and in consequence a
high birth-rate undesirable.
Kimbolton ’: Was prospecting on the
Leopold ranges, Kimberley, and the horses were dog
poor when I struck Sloppy Bill. “You oughter get
mewils, advised Bill. “I see a bloke camped at
Bungarlgoodysoak with three beauties he wants to
sell. I had to go in for tucker, anyway, so I de-
cided to inspect the “mewils.” They were beau-
ties, mud fat, and the owner assured me, “as quiet
as sheep.” I bought the mules, and was up betimes
next day. I had just finished tightening the girth
on the first when something happened. About din-
ner time I came to, and found a stranger pouring
water on mv face out of a quart pot. “How d’ye
feel now?” he asked. “What happened?” I care-
fully felt myself all over, and said, “I dunno; I
a bit queer; must ha’ fainted.” “Better have a
day’s camp,” he advised. I assured him that it
was impossible, I must get away, and he kindly
offered to assist me pack the mules. The good
Samaritan was just stepping back after tightening
the girth on the second mule, when the accursed
hybrid sprang four feet in the air and la n ned out
with all four feet at once. His, or its, near fore
and hind feet collided with the stranger’s chest, and
he threw several back somersaults with surprising
haste. I knew then how those lumps like teacups
came to be on my bosom, and what caused the cocoa-
nut-l;ke growth on the back of my head. The stranger
came to a bit before sundown, and, after carefully
feeling himself all over, said, looking sourly at the
mules, “Turn ’em out, I’ll fix ’em in the morning.”
He was no effete scion of civilisation, that man ; he
was a bushman, and, of course, resourceful. Next
morning, with a prospecting dish full of sand under
his arm, he approached the acrobatic brute that had
tried to stave his chest in, and stepping quietly to its
head, deftly inserted a handful of sand in each eye.
Before the astonished mule could decide to do any-
thing definite, the packs were on, surcingle tightened,
halter tied up and the hobbles buckled to its neck, all
ready for the road. Sounds severe, perhaps, to those
who do not know mules, but firmness is an essential
in mule-conducting. Since then, should these mules
appear preoccupied while I am preparing to pack up,
the mere pretence of scooping up a dish of sand re-
duces them to a condition of abject servility.
“Red and Blue” : Re that Parthian quiver
from “Aldridge Evelyn” (B. 6/2/T3), anent vege-
tarianism, may it be permitted me to reply:—
(1) Man has teeth closely resembling the car-
nivora. Refer to any museum for study of the den-
titions of any of the following carnivora (number of
teeth in parentheses) : Common seal (36), sea lions
(32), walrus (28), tiger (30), hyaena (34), civet
cat (40), domestic dog (a variable 42). The bear,
which is mostly herbivorous, has 44 teeth, while man
normally has 32 in the permanent set.
(2) Truly, “all flesh is grass.”
(3) By cooking, the poisons in an animal body are
either eliminated or neutralised. And if by “poisons”
“Aldridge Evelyn” means bacteria, then these micro-
scopic unicellular organisms are destroyed practically
in their entirety, including spores (bacterial means of
propagation), since heat is the best germicide known
to surgery.
(4) As against the foregoing, would “Aldridge
Evelyn” care to stagger his eyesight by making cul-
tures and microscopical observation of such unpre-
pared articles of diet as celery, watercress, lettuce,
radishes and other such vegetarian palate-ticklers, and
thereby note bacillus typhosus, bacillus tetanus, taenia
echinococcus (hydatids), ankylostomum duodenale,
distomum haematobium (generally known as worms),
et alia rnulta ?
(5) A diet consisting solely of vegetables is not
conducive to the best health. Results of observation
and physiological research on true vegetarians show
their muscles are flabby, they are less vigorous than
those who live on a mixed diet, and their resistance to
disease germs and the effects of haemorrhage is low.
There are also early evidences of senility.
(6) The comparison of the horse and the dog is a
weak example of the triumph of the vegetarian over
the carnivorous. The dog, in running, does not hold
the head erect, and since the tongue is partly involun-
tary muscle, it projects from the mouth not of the
animal’s volition, but of its own accord and by its
own weight. Also, the tongue thus forms a bridge
for the discharge of the excessive amount of saliva
that is formed in the action of running, and allows the
dog to breathe more freely. Almost always the
“glassy eyes” are due to dust. In retaliation of the
horse-and-dog comparison, note the success of Amund-
sen and his dogs in getting to the South Pole, as
against the ignominous failure of horses in two
unsuccessful expeditions. And cor. ider the eagle, vul-
ture, seagull and hawk, and their staying powers in
the air, as against parrot, sparrow and eo.
(7) That “flesh-eating more than anything else is
responsible for cancer,” is a wild throw-in. Would
that the cause of the dread scourge were established
beyond doubt, which it is not by any means.
SAFE FOR THE PRESENT.
PARSON : “Do you know, my friend, that you are on the road to destruction?”
INCAPABLE : “ ’S' alri’ , ole buck, I ain’t travel tin’ this road. I'm (hie) camped 'ere
fer a week."
“Mooki” : If the contributor “from a
strangled town” (B. 30/1/T3) knows as little of
the Gunnedah (N.S.W.) district as he does of the
local bridges, his remarks have not any special value.
His “little wooden bridge over the Namoi” is really
a steel structure, which cost £60,000; and as for its
being “perched above the general level,” if he had
been in the town during the flood of January, 1910,
he might have perceived that there is a reason even
for that. The slack times to which he refers are due
much more to three consecutive bad wheat seasons
which the Northern farmer has suffered from, than
to the strangling influence of the stations. For
some time past, land in these parts has shown a
much better proportionate return from wool than
from wheat, with much less worrv and risk ; and
plenty of cookies contemplate giving up the wheat
gamble and taking to the more profitable jumbuck.
IN TOPHET.
DIRECTUS : “ You stay here.”
DRUNKUS : “How long'sh?”
DIRECTUS: “I call for you when you're a
fanlod.”
“Gouger”: A very effective method of
catching fish, employed by natives of the Danetree
River (N.Q.), is to throw into a deep waterhole about
51b. of the roasted and cracked yellowish-red fruits of
one of the many species of palm-tree to be found in the
scrubs. In about a quarter of an hour the surface of
the water will be alive with apparently demented
fish. As far as my examinations have gone the only
effect of the fruit seems to be blindness, but black
brother says poison. Anyhow, it doesn’t stop him
scooping the tucker in and stowing it in the place
where it is calculated to do most good.
“Sa Wen” : “Blackwood, now so scarce, is
almost worth its weight in gold,” etc., says
“Johanna” (B. 13/2/’l3). Would it be too rude to
whisper that “Jo.” is orating through her millinery?
As a matter of fact, blackwood is slowly superseding
kauri as the cheapest medium for furniture faking.
Kauri is easier to work, but its price has been stead-
ily increasing, and manufacturers invariably use
blackwood if they can crowd it in. If the lady had
stipulated fiddleback, now I should have left her in
peace. But fiddleback is a very special breed of the
vegetable.
“Platman”: The finger talk or sign lan-
guage used by the Pascoe River (N.Q.) natives, men-
tioned by “Gouger” (B. 16/1/T3), is common
amongst the aborigines of the east
coast and tableland of Cape York
Peninsula. I have noticed it outside
Cooktown, at Port Stewart, the Coen
and Lloyd’s Bay, but, so far as I
have observed, its use is not confined
to relatives. At Port Stewart, the
niggers on different sides of the
Stewart River belong to different
tribes, and they converse, appar-
ently at great length, by signs. A
Batavia River boy I had with me used
this whirling or semaphore speech
with Coen, Lloyd Bay and Night
Island blacks. My own opinion is
that the sign language has been
■evolved by the necessity for silence
when hunting for game. The Far
Northern nigger is a very silent per-
son in the day-time, either in camp
or on the track, but at night, in
camp, gins and bucks let their
tongues out on the loose. Judging by
the laughter that frequently rings
out, some of the jokes are highly
appreciated, though from the inter-
pretation given me only a pickled
commercial traveller could stand them
raw.
“Catherine M.”: Re moon-blindness (B.
30/l/’l3). Once knew an able-bodied ox-conductor
who one moonlit night requested the head of our
house to see that his (the ox-conductor’s) team of
(scarlet) steers was safely camped. His apparent
laziness was due to moon-blindness, which he had
acquired long previously as a result of sleeping in
the open, face up to a full moon. By daylight his
eyesight was quite normal, but he could see nothing
on the brightest of nights. I was led to understand
years ago that anyone afflicted with moon-blindness
sometimes suffered from a permanent twist of the
head in the direction from which the moon shone at
the time of the affliction. The only way to undo the
kink was to cross the Equator; but I wouldn’t like
any moon-twisted citizen to make the trip until he
verifies the information. It may not be correct.
THE SEASIDE CHAPERONE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The boarding house I’m living at
Is nestled down beside the sea ;
The living there is none too fat.
The “comforts” do not comfort me.
I stay because one girl divine
Who oft I fancy may be mine
Goes dipping in adjacent brine.
Her name is Maud. Her sister Jane
Goes bathing, too. My one regret
Is that when dabbling in the main
They have with them their Auntie Bet.
Aunt Bettie’s over fifty-five,
She has a figure like a hive—
On Gospel tracts it seems to thrive.
By moonlight in the silver wave
We splash about, a sportive set.
I'm given here no space to rave,
But Maudie’s figure when it's wet
Would stir a saint. Not much is seen ;
I get one glimpse of beauty’s queen,
Then Auntie wallows in between.
{.ast night I cried, all patience spent:
“For pity’s sake abandon Aunt!”
Her blue eyes were so innocent.
“Oh, no,” she said, “I really can’t.
She guards our dear aquatic larks.
Wherever Auntie Bet embarks
There's not the smallest fear of sharks!”
VICTORIA
SILAS SNELL.


WHERE THE MOTOR BUSINESS BOOMS-
TARRANTS’
104-112 Russell Street,
. . . MELBOURNE.
No. 2 Oarage
No. 2 Works Department
Body Works
No. 2 Store
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
Lygon Street, Carlton.
Lygon Street, Carlton.
South Melbourne.
The BIGGEST MOTORING BUSINESS in Australasia.
SOLE AGENTS IN VICTORIA for Fiat, F.N., Ford, 8.5. A.,
Mercedes, Rover, Adler, Sunbeam, Commer, Thornycroft.
MOTORS PTY. LTD..
Telephones:
3030, 2942, 6280, 5534.
104-112 Russell Street, Melbourne.
I shall never forget the impression made upon
me by the first passenger steamer on the Thames.
This must have been about the year 1822 (wrote
Berthon). It was a wretched little thing which
went about once a week from old London Bridge to
Richmond. ... it was so crank that when an old
lady tumbled into the water and we all flocked to one
side we were within an ace of getting a similar
bath. Phillips Ormonde & Co., Patent Agents, 17
Queen Street, Melbourne.*
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
REXONA.
The Rapid Healer is an Ointment which heals with
remarkable rapidity. Unlike the old-fashioned oint-
ments, which are very slow in their action, Rexona
speedily effects its relief after a very few applica-
tions. Sold in triangular pots at Is. 6d. and os.
Obtainable everywhere.*
sdf
sdf
Veal and Tongue
Pate
Is made for tho*e who want
something with which to make
good "meaty" eandwlchei. It
Is quite as tasty as the famous
Ham Pate, though It costs a
little less.
Ask your grocer for a tin or
two. Each tin holds a quarto
of a pound.
FOCCITT, JOKES & COM/TD.
“Settled” : Some little time ago I was
travelling by rail from Atherton to Mareeba (N.Q.),
and noticed a particularly noxious-looking China-
man drinking from the pannikin provided for the
use of passengers at the station tank. I drew the
station-master’s attention to the pollution. “What
can I do?” said he. “He’s a passenger the same as
you are.” I didn’t see my noxious friend again till
the other day, after his arrest for butchering an-
other Ah Sin. Two days later I found that he had
been discovered to be a mere shell —Chinaman outside
and leprosy within. He was shooed into the morgue
to await trial. Isn’t Bruce Smith due for a pre-
sentation mug or something? If so, how about that
station pannikin for a loving cup ?
“P.A.Q.” : When John Maori gets into the
habit of doing things in a certain way, it takes
some argument to make him change. Was keeping
store at Taneatua (M.L.) when the postage rate
was reduced from 2d. to Id. Timi Tapu, a casual
customer of mine, always would, and did, up till the
time they held a tangi over him, affix 2d. to his
missives. My first argument with him on the sub-
ject was a failure; it was like this: “Homai te
tamp,” says Timi, placing a threepenny-piece on the
counter. I gave him a penny one and 2d. change,
at which he remarked: “E hoa, no good this one,
kapai te tuppny.” “That’s all right, Timi,” I
said; “penny sufficient for letters now.” “How te
way that, he always te tuppny, ain’t he?” “Not
now, Timi; Government reduce the rate; all let-
ters penny now.” “Py gorry that no good to me,
what te ’ell te Gumment he know about my retter,
I write it, don’t I? You pull my reg, I tink. You
gimme te tuppny tamp quick, else I write te Cho
Ward, you get te pruddy sack.” At that threat I
gave him one which he affixed with much nressing
with the handkerchief, remarking the while, “No
good te tarn penny, kapai te tuppny that te besh
way, he go rike ’ell now, I pet.”
POSTPONED INDEFINITELY.
GINGER: “ Was Julia switihed ter dat sheeny
bloke larst nite?"
ALICIA : “Not for nuts, Ginger. 'E wasn’t
edicated enough, so de weddin ' wot cum
orf didn't take place.”
“A. Borig”: Re long-distance country
Bungs. The 39-year record of Rush, of the Iluka
pub, was easily beaten by the late Kimberley, of
Collector (N.S.W.). He told me he had been be-
hind the pump for 52 years, and he didn’t die for
awhile after that. When he went aloft to assist
in the nectar department, his widow kept the family’s
name over the door for a few years longer. The
total would thus run to about 60 years.
THE SPEECH OF MRS. BING HI.
“Say, doss, breakfus' time’s ready!"
“Leichhardt” : For casualness Black Sister
beats all other performers. Take the case of Scraggy.
Scraggy was the house gin on an outstation below
Cloncurry. Incidentally, she weighed 731 b. As she
was about to become a mother, the boss decided to
send her to the head station, where she would have
the benefit of the station gins’ attention. A dray
was going in for rations, and with Scraggy aboard
started off. I was the driver. Crossing the Clon-
curry River, Scraggy asked me to pull up while she
visited a well-known water-melon patch. I am pre-
pared to swear that she wasn’t absent more than 45
minutes. In view of subsequent revelations, the time
should be borne in mind. Next day Scraggy was
busy at the washtub. Noticing her condition, I
naturally inquired after the piccaninny. “Oh, I bin
bury that fella longa sand yesterday,” she said with
a laugh. I had my own suspicions, but asked no
questions—then. Later on, Scraggy admitted to me,
with equal frankness, that she had been a mother, a
baby-slayer and a gravedigger all in those short 45
minutes.
* * * *
“L. 8.”: Re “Coola’s” remarks on the
pest of “bluebottles” (Portuguese men-of-war), now
infesting the N.S.W surfing resorts. He mentioned as
the best remedy he had encoun-
tered the leaves of a shrub used
by a couple of Binghis. As
“Coola” did not know the name
of the shrub, I will say for gen-
eral information that it is com-
monly known as the “pigface.”
Almost instantly it allays the
agony of the virus of the “blue-
bottle’s” streamers, and for scor-
pion or poisonous spider stings
or bites it is equally efficacious.
Its leaves are triangular and
multi-colored, thick and fleshy,
and it may be found growing in
plenty at Watson’s Bay and along
the cliffs where the Shocked have
not squashed it out of existence
watching the female surf-bather.
In the hot summer months it
produces a sub-acid fruit, purple
in color and not unlike the fruit
of the prickly-pear, but with a
corona of beautiful scarlet leaves
or petals. It is also a splendid
febrifuge, and cattle love it.
Solander, the botanist, considered
it “one of the most valuable
plants in the universe, with a world-wide habit, yet
almost unknown except to the botanist.”
* * * *
“Yannatherra”: It was a slack hour in
the traffic, and the day was hot and dry. Constable
Murrphy, meditating a beer epic, languidly altered
his vision centre from the corner pub to the passing
corporation water sprinkler. Suddenly a large, brown
Billjim rushed wildly across the blocks, arms ges-
ticulating, whiskers waving adieux to his wind-dis-
placed hat, and his dust-stained voice vainly endeavor-
ing to attract the attention of the sprinkler-driver.
With a curse Murrphy was after him, and at 135
yards had locked Billjim in the official embrace.
“Gorstruth!” panted the indignant visitor from Dry-
berra, pointing to the sprinkler, “he don’t seem to
know its leakin’!”
“Wolfram”: Visits of men of religion to
the Papuan goldfields are few and far between, but,
when they do eventuate, the diggers celebrate the
occasion in a befitting manner. It was a well-known
cleric (familiarly referred to and sometimes ad-
dressed by the miners as the “Bish”) who sent word
to the Yodda Valley field that he would arrive there
on a certain date. The news was passed around, and
most of the men from Finnegan’s, Hudson’s,
McLaughlin’s and other outlying parts assembled at
one of the two stores on the main field to meet him.
All hands were attired in their best Yodda finery—
pyjama pants, flannel and handkerchief. Red Bill,
Klondike, Black Bill and a few others, who formed
the reception committee, formally welcomed the Bish,
after which he informed the crowd that the main
object of his visit was to hold service and read
prayers over the graves of those miners who had
died at and been buried on the Yodda. All then
adjourned to a place where most of the deceased
Yodda miners had been interred. The Bish held ser-
vice and read prayers, during which the congregation
observed proper decorum. When the ceremony was
completed, Red Bill stood up on a wooden headpiece,
and, after a brilliant oration, in which he exhorted
his listeners to give up strong drink, etc., he pro-
posed a hearty vote of thanks to the Bish for his
offices. This was carried unanimously, and with
three cheers. The bewildered cleric did not respond
but walked silently away from the cemetery. So far
as I know, he did not visit the Yodda after that,
which was a great disappointment to the boys, who
had decided to entertain him at a smoke concert on
his next visit.
* * *
Nnel 1 : Saw a wild and woolly fight in
the scrub just beyond St. Hilda Bluff to-day. The
parties had come from one of the northern suburbs
to settle a little difference over “a bit of skirt ”
Denny was a hefty bloke sft. lOin. in his bluchers ;
Artie was not more than sft. 7in., and slimly built.
Artie copped out from “go,” when Denny swiped
him a right swing that took two complete twists out
of him, and left him perched on his shoulder-blades,
looking for his enemy among the clouds. After that
Artie was receiver-general through seven long, ex-
hausting rounds, and nothing could be said for the
victim but that he was tough. He had contracted
two black eyes, by the way, and his left ear, where
Denny’s patent, circular swing connected, was like a
ripe purple plum. A long cut over the right eye, a
puffed nose, a split chin, sundry bruises, and two
missing teeth completed the tout ensemble. When
Artie came up for round nine Denny’s disgust was
terrible. “Yah!” he snorted, “kindness is jist thrown
away on you,” and he whirled in a fist that might
have shifted the rock of ages. It hoisted Artie into
an adjoining state, that of unconsciousness. While
the combatants were receiving the attention of their
seconds, a plump damsel came puffing from a furni-
ture van in the middle distance. Several friends
warded her off from the gruesome spectacle. She
was the bone of contention. “Who’s won?” gasped
the bone. “Artie,” replied a facetious youth. “He’s
got poor Denny all broke up.” The lady squealed,
“Oh, the wretch!” she said. “The beast! Poor
Denny—my poor Denny ! ” She broke through into the
field of action. There lay Artie in his gore; there
stood Denny open-armed, the pride of the victor in
his only good eye. The lady shot one look at the
vanquisher and another at the vanquished ; then her
pent feelings surged into a yell, and, descending
upon five and a half pounds of metal, she put it in
with such deftness that Denny keeled over, dead to
the world. After which Madge prostrated herself
upon the hero, who had fallen in fair fight.
“Artie! Artie!” she said; “oh, my poor, poor
Artie !”
“S.T.N.”: There has been a strange mor-
tality among the perch in Lake Bonnev (S.A ) hun
dreds of fish drifting ashore dead, without any a n
parent trouble except that the eyes are gone. “Tal'*. 1
out by birds,” was the local verdict; but Mclntosh
Chief Inspector of Fisheries, puts it down to shallow
flats with decaying vegetable matter. When a fish
gets into such shallows, and a heat-wave sends tem-
peratures up, he has ophthalmia, and presently the
eye bursts. Mclntosh says he has seen the exact
process in an aquarium in Italy.
“A.L.B. : I claim to have discovered the
most civilised bird. It inhabits North Queensland
scrubs. Its nest has one entrance only, which is fitted
with a hinged door. The nest is suspended from a
bush like an inflated paper bag. When the bird turns
in, it locks the door and slumbers in peace. It is
a little brown bird, the size of a tom-tit, with con-
fiding eyes and a long beak. It lives on honey. It
was a lady bird I saw ; and as there was nobody to
introduce us, and I’m a Wowser, I don't know her
name.
“Eddyson”: George Edward C'riff, 0 f
Wylow, was a smart settler, with 300 acres of
pretty fair land and a terrific supply of resolution.
His greatest misfortune was that he had no capital
worth mentioning, beside which he was not brought
up to the land, having been a type-snatcher in the
chy till the machine-setter gave him a set-back. But
he was young, and strong, and bent on getting
there. Among his other requirements, after three
years battling with the great Australian gum, was
a wife. For his own part he considered Nellie
David admirably adapted, and told her so. M ; ss
David said she liked his cheek ; but George Edward,
being a persistent bloke, hoped to make her liking
more general. The man who had overthrown and dis-
posed of 600 giant gums was not easily discon-
certed. He kept at Nellie, although this necessi-
tated his fighting one or the other of her five big
brothers two or three times over, and placed him in
some jeopardy from old David’s gun. It will be
gathered that there was some objection to George
Edward Griff. The Davids had extensive lands, and
innumerable cows. They had crops and pigs, and
money abided with them. Criff, as a penniless
settler, was distinctly no class. Some people may
excuse the young man for not seeing it in that
light. He missed no opportunity. Old David
started a law suit against him about a boundary in
the hope of breaking his spirit, and when one of the
David boys could not lick him two did not blush
to make the effort. Mrs. David scalded him once
when he had the impudence to invade the front
verandah after Nellie, and Mr. David shot him once
when he was lingering in the moonlit orchard, “with
a view to the above.” The Davids bought a large
and vicious mastiff for George’s discouragement,
and twice the gallant youth was injured in tooth-
and-nail conflicts with the abnormal tyke, while the
David family stood round and heartened on their
horrid dog. Then Criff, with inconceivable impu-
dence, publicly asked David for his daughter’s hand.
It happened in Proctor’s bar in Wylow township.
David in his just wrath clubbed George Edward
with a crutch like a hockey stick, and threw a kero-
sene lamp at him as he withdrew from the stirring
scene. It was just ten days later that Criff blun-
dered on the quartz reef on his block. He quietly
secured all he could hold, put his friends on to
other leases, and then made disclosures. The out-
crop was just putrid with gold. It blazed in the
sunlight like the Federal note reserve. Old David
went with, the crowd to gape at it. He gaped for
an hour, and his mouth dripped all the time. Then
he limped to George Edward Criff. He took his
hand. “Eh, man, man,” he said, “we’re jist as
keen as ever about your marryin’ our Nell, mind
veh.”
THE ART OF THE WOWSER.
Mixing the color.
“Bulloak” : I crowd on to my daily crust
by farming in the Mallee. Had a chap and a bloke
doing a bit of fencing lately. The township is five
miles away, and every Saturday the two went there
to buy a pair of boots. They had only one horse be-
tween them. The chap first mounted the moke ami
tore like a bush fire for about half a mile, where he
hitched the horse to a fence and walked. W hen the
bloke who was padding the hoof reached the nag
he mounted, and laid on the flail till he got half a
mile in front of the chap, when he in turn tethered
Nugget to the fence and walked. This business was
repeated till the pub yard was reached. The only
thing the chap and the bloke have ever disagreed
over was when Bill had the horse for the last mile
two “Saturdees” running. You see, Bill was thus
able to swallow five beers before Jim could clutch
a glass. Coming back, Bill rode the horse and Jim
had the mount on one of the snakes they brought
home with them.
CALL OF THE SAP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A wind is blowing from the downs,
With fragrance of the flowering tree;
A call to come from pa veil towns
And hear the songs of land and sea ;
To smell the wild boronia buds,
To see the glory of the heights
And hear the tumult of the floods,
Or whispering peace of summer nights.
So leave the desk and close the door,
And sling your rod and rifle on ;
The wild duck chatter by the shore,
And southward string migrating swan ;
So leave the counter and the till,
And put the saddle on the mare ;
The new pink growth is on the hill;
The new crisp sweetness in the air.
This desert-wind brings in the tale
Of how the sun has turned the yea?,
And many buds are bursting pale,
And watercourses rippling clear ;
Of grasses clothing slope and strand.
And birds re-plumaged all anew;
So take your hunting-gear in hand,
And I will out and off with you.
There comes a time to each and all,
Who live in webs men-spiders spin,
When wild and wayward voices call
And wake the shuttered soul within ;
When open space and windy tree
Rouse up the dormant imp of change—-
So bolt the doors, and come with me
To chase the wind across the range !
VICTORIA.
C. G. A. COLLES.


fAyr Th£ /'£' Says:
QIP Hop Ij n>s$ ,N IjAFTcr MA*
A hat. sul T/i I
SJ/ALL I J>f?Aw I sfly,
" Qf jY, •'
’yoUR HffA^
He sAys
% U
T
%>
X aVEnT fUfi-rSoRT Of
TH)NC, SWCETI LB-FT S'K** 1 -
/} 5-fARtH
IS bur
I N'
. CL]> }jdF.
Tt-tc y Hai/
fon/ND
I Sun
7 y
iT W y f
T Br Cj[jn a <Ca rtoon 9°
Ttl OS Ft) kid/vAPPI N' oF~
Br«r/jW
CABINET A S
fc€roF7&~P 3y
l<4 g L^-
V
Jqo-T
wen Toot Soko rjoje
ATrfrr* tlif Strike" ffron f
p^:s
AND THE LIGHT WENT OUT.


Too much smoking sometimes creates a headache
—aches so much it nauseates. Stearns’ Headache
Cure clears the head and makes you feel like new.*
GAE L I C
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
CURED MOTHER AND CHILDREN.
“Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy is most valuable in
the home where there are children,” writes Mrs. E. L.
Lloyd, 74 Tennyson Street, Beckenham, Christchurch
(N.Z.). “It not only cured me of a severe cold and
influenza, but also cured my two children when they
had whooping cough.”*
Are those
Dyspepsia,
employed ;
everywhere.
BROUGHT TO BAY
°oi. C i i J ili » sat i?. n ’ Indi £estion and
when Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules are
» ls . 6d - and 2s - Bd. per tin. Obtainable
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY.
HATS.
For
durability,
NORSE LINNDENBERG,
of Perth, West Australia,
writes—
CLEMENTS TONIC, LTD.—
“As a nurse I have seen CLEMENTS
TONIC DO SO MUCH GOOD AMONGST
MY MANY PATIENTS that I feel it my duty
to make those facts known. I have prescribed
it often, and in every case it has done what I
expected of it. It SOOTHES THE PATIENT,
GIVES SWEET, REFRESHING SLEEP,
CREATES A DESIRE FOR FOOD, and not
only that, it HELPS THE FOOD TO DIGEST.
Patients become bright and cheerful after its
use. As a health restorer I decidedly say
CLEMENTS TONIC HAS NO EQUAL.
“(Signed) NURSE LINNDENBERG.”
ALL CHEMISTS and STORES SELL
CLEMENTS TONIC. Cet it S get well.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Three books, mostly about Victorian
courts, Judges, barristers and attorneys, are
under way. J. L. Forde, a well-known
journalist, has a history of the Supreme
Court nearly through the press. C. P. Wil-
liams, formerly Clerk of the Melbourne In-
solvency Court, has the material for another
the prospectus was issued a while ago
And ex-Justice Holroyd, who was 25 years
on the Bench and 26 at the Bar, is writing
his recollections. Madden, C.J., lately looked
through Forde’s proofs, and gave the infant
his blessing in advance.
DR. RAMSEY SMITH, head of the Health
Department, boss Coroner and several other
things in S.A.
Rose Browne, daughter of “Rolf Boldre-
wood and sister to squatter Everard
Browne, has gone to Rhodesia to collect
tour buckets of local color for her novel
' era and Rhodesia.” This local color busi-
ness is a bit precarious. In a recent Eng-
lish work or job the arriving Englishman is
met at Circular Quay by the grand old squat-
ter and driven to the squattage in about 40
mmutes in a two-horse buggy. The author,
an Englishman, could not have collected
more than a pint of local color.
The very earliest River Murray days are
recalled by the death of Mrs. James Ritchie
in S. Aus. Her husband brought river
steamers from Scotland, in pieces, in 1653
put them together at Port Adelaide, and took
them m through the dangerous Murray
Mfluth. ms wife followed him out in 1857.
i s %y ) ., s A e looked by was collared
by the British Government to carry troons
to the Indian Mutiny.) The couple lived all
up and down the river, from Ecliuca to Gool-
wa. James Ritchie died in 1883, but at
least tour sons are owners and captains on
the Murray still.
Coincidence again. Amundsen delivered,
to a big audience at Adelaide, his first lec-
/i >n , II V- Sou . th R°lar exploit on the very
igV&Sh P S m iM2°)! ' vrotc Ms last mea ‘
nnL an !A T ° mS ’ dead l n Ad elaide at a trifle
under 40, represented the rather unusual
combination of soft-goods and hard sports,
tie was a son of a partner in the leading
house of Hood, Toms and Co., and was an
early cyclist holding at one time the Ade-
laide-to-Melbourne record —fine polo player
and huntsman. Being bowled by a lingering
disease, lie bought Koonunga station, and
there raised good sheep and still better
horses, till the end came
“Down South” writes :
a Q rff le M P I ompt convenient decease of ex-Presi-
dent Madero, of Mexico, during the alleged attenmt
me r of C a e iren?l gO ,? d ’ kind % uards '
hp!n 4 ld lady whose squatter-luisband had
been treacherously speared whilst attending to his
X OT T S i' ee - P ‘ ~.S he alwa y s wound up the
story of the tragedy in these words: “The worst of it
was that he was killed by friendly blacks!’’ Time,
the great consoler, had taken both the sting and the
humor out of the pathetic explanation. A good
many people before and after Caesar have been killed
7 friendly whites. There is no smarter executioner
than a friend—if lie is that sort of friend.
The long-talked-of Mrs. Boon Goey is
under Australian Government orders to quit
the Commonwealth not later than the end
•L April provided that another medical cer-
tificate doesn’t intervene. Probably it will.
Airs. Poon Gooey is now two or three years
older than when she got her first order to
tear herself apart from this country, and a
Chmawoman who keeps the law at bay for
all that time is not unlikely to win the fight
on points.
From the Oldest Inhabitant
Apropos Felix Clewett (B. 20/2/’l3). In the old
sandhills cemetery, replaced by Sydney Railway Sta-
tion, were many notable monuments sculped by
George Clewett, who had his monumental mason’s
yard in Bathurst-street west. In the late ’3o’s he
went into Lower Pitt-street. Some of the very fine
monuments with his sign manual bore nothing else,
by the way. One of them was supposed to be over
the remains of Dr. Wardell, shot by runaway convicts
on his estate at Petershamj another was supposed to
keep down the bones of Captain Logan, murdered by
blacks at Moreton Bay. The late Queensland M.L C.
was born in Sydney in 1836, while the sculptor was
at the top of his fame.
T _ Joha Roberts, who died at Branston-road,
Kew Gardens, London, the other day, aged
84, was the last surviving partner of the old
bydne.y firm of goldsmiths, etc., Flavelle and
Roberts. In the ’4o’s the firm was Flavelle
and Brush ; the E., S. and A. Bank now covers
the site of their shop. In 1850 the firm was
Flavelle Brothers, opticians and watch-
makers, 478 George-street North. These
premises were opposite the Military Bar-
racks. In the mid ’so’s John Roberts,
importer, of Jamieson-street, joined the firm
which became first Flavelle Brothers and
Co., and then, as it still is. Flavelle and
Roberts.
“Nichiquin”: One more instance of the
terrors of the North. Inspector Foelsche,
after spending more years at Darwin than
the oldest Northern Territory drunk can re-
member, retired a while ago, and moved
south to Adelaide. But he decides that no
reasonable white man can put up with such
climate, and so he goes back to his
old-age sanatorium. They all do it sooner
or later. A man may leave the N.T. and
llve ,n e l sewhere for y ear s, but eventually
you 11 find him back there. Like the “East”
it calls.” And when it calls —well, we go
that’s all.
More Revelations from “Jeames”:—
R° rd Ronald Gower, who went bankrupt last year
(the whole of his patrimony of £40,000 having
been lost for him by F. R. Shacldeton, brother of
the explorer), has had a busy life. He is an art
cntm of distinction, a sculptor, a fine writer, and
the author of several biographies. But he will
chiefly go down to fame as the man who slew the
top hat. For 20 "ears he has waged merciless war
against this senseless garment. At a period when
no self-respecting Englishman dared to appear dur-
lng the Season in the Row in the morning, or in
Bond-street in the afternoon, beneath anything but a
hat of stove-pipe shape and weight, Lord Ronald
brazenly, frequented these places clad in a mere
slouch. ’ At first his action drove right-thinking
people to a state of frenzy. By the end of the ’9o’s
one found Londoners, here and there, who were dis-
posed to argue that there might be something in
his notion. Lord Rothschild compromised by having
a top hat made for himself of white straw. He
claimed that it supplied the essential air of dignity
and responsibility, without bearing unduly on the
fevered brow of the wearer. However, the straw
topper failed to boom. To-day the silk hat is a
rarity m London, even during the height of the
season Its vogue is moribund. Presently, without
a doubt, it will join the Georgian stock and the tie-
wig, both of which adornments were too infernally
uncomfortable to last.
Lord Ronald’s examination in bankruptcy dis-
used the bland casualness in regard to business
affairs _ which characterises so many artists. He
unquestioningly handed over all his money to Shackle-
ton, and told him to do with it what he thought
best. It went into the International Financial De-
velopment Corporation, which paid about two divi-
dends (carpers say out of capital), and then burst
with a report that reverberated over half England.
Shacldeton is alleged to have defrauded a number of
others, of various impressive sums. Also, he is
credited with having, while employed about the
castle in Dublin, purloined the Crown jewels. The
latter accusation, however, has no significance.
Almost everyone who was in Ireland within six
months of the disappearance of these famous orna-
ments, has been more or less roundly charged with
stealing them. Not to have been in some wav asso-
ciated with this strange affair is, in Dublin Society
circles, equivalent to the charge of being an obscure
outsider.
DIANA AND THE CHASE.
VIOLENT WOMEN. —THE LATEST SCHEME TO
KIDNAP MINISTERS.—GROWING INDIGNATION.
London, Feb. 22.
The Standard states that the women’s suffragists are
plotting to kidnap several Cabinet Ministers.
An Australian's conception of the English
Suffragette.
John Redmond, leader of the Irish party,
claims (or somebody claims it for him) to
be a descendant of Raymond the Fat, the
large and warlike Norman person who came
over to Ireland with men-at-arms and archers
in advance of Strongbow. Raymond
did things in a thoroughgoing fashion, and
when he made a haul of prisoners he hurled
them over high cliffs into the sea. It is pro-
bably part of the old scoundrel’s return for
his misdeeds in life that he looks out from
his seat on a red-hot pinnacle of Tophet to
see his Irish descendant in the direct line
nghting the battles of his country against
the more or less Norman persons who sit
impotent in the faded House of Peers.
From London:—
Bin Dyson, the caricaturist, some time of Australia
and now a figure m the London art world, went to a
W^a r ’+n° r I? 6 " °- nl 7’ given b y sculptor Derwent
Wood the other night. At the finish, he was far
whn'haH the / 1^ t ’ bn Sbt-eyed, clear-reasoning lad
? h ‘ d aroused the regard and admiration of every
Wowser present when the meal started. As one re
suit, he went home with someone else’s hat and his
host’s cigarette case. He returned the latter the
the following ' masterpiece of ’ self-
°f r T S^’ —1 do n , ot ask for forgiveness. I know,
ala ?• % , cail never be worthy of that. The crime
which I have committed is best punished by a con-
tmuance of that remorse which has made my life
H" b “ ble . Sln ce that night when, succumbing to an
hereditary impulse which was too strong for me I
left your house with more of your silver in mv
of C mlnd thai T t an wn eXplai i ned J away by mere absence
of mind. I took the enclosed, four forks, two fruit
dishes, a coalscuttle and a dressing-table. All but
the cigarette case I have since disposed of at various
establishments m Kmg’s-road. The cigarette f
L,Vnn Urn in he r W i th ’ as some small relief to a cou-
pw£ e th f burde ~ of w bich has become intolerable
Please make no effort to penetrate the Nubian dark-
ness in which lam shrouding my identity. Leave me
to an anonymity that I owe to my wives and families
And believe me to be one who fell, not to an
acquired vice, but to a national and congenital pre-
You?s Slt in n n,f g -f lnSt T h ' Ch he stru ffffLd in vain
i ours, m penitence, Conscience Smitten
Jef,?r n n y 9, th L blight et d f?, eS wh .°’ from time to time,
return 2s. 3d. worth of conscience money,” or there-
f bo “ ts > , t 0 tb ? ! ?cal Railway Department would do
woulrl tbese , dl B; n,fled and highly cultured lines, life
Temed cheener and more picturesque for all con-
CORN IN EGYPT.
A demand has heen made here that Australian cham-
pagne should he used. Mr. O'Malley says there will be
nothing of the kind. "Lady Demman will mane the
capital, he said, and she will do it, not with imported
champagne, nor with Australian champagne, but with
water."
LADY D.: “But, Mr. O’Malley , it does seem
such a waste."
KING O'M.: “Go ahead , sister! Hang the
expense! 'There j plenty more water in
Sydney. ”
Died last week, in Sydney, Alfred n»
Lissa, one of three best company-law nS*
m Austraha. A few months ago the urE
old gentleman suffered a shock from A?
death by accident of his young barrister ,“ e
and he never gave his hat quite the
polish afterwards. e sata e
Australia’s Pie Commissioner—fis
other day—was always passionately f O J n e (
lollies, and when he was in office in N w
there was scarcely a Treasurv official 4.
he wouldn’t ask to run out and buy him E
other sixpenn’orth. Once he was in v
England, and the train had reached the w
gest station thereabouts. Mister Mayor ntS
aldermen, town band in full regalia ana on
the “best people,” gorgeously arravei
crowded the platform. With Reid on
trip was a very proper and immaculate m,h
lie . officer. His well-ironed hat and gC
fitting “froeker” gave him an air of distinc-
tion which even George lacked. When thl
t™.,, halted O, H. got out, aud with
the dignified civil servant. As thev aH
vanced, to much applause, G. H. turned snd
denly, and. tapping the immaculate one on
the shoulder, said in his loud pipe- «j UR t
run over to the nearest store and get m
sixpenny worth of lollies, will you’” The
tremendous official was flabbergasted hut
promptly melted away in the crowd,’ and
G. 11. began a little speech. When the neces
sary package returned, he promptly p ero
rated, re-entered the train, and contentedlv
sucked the acid drops all the way to New
castle.
CRAWFORD VAUGHAN , Treasurer in
Veran's ex-Ministry (S.A.)
Bishop Williams, of Maoriland, is pro-
bably one of the very few people living who
saw Samuel Marsden. In 1837 the old man
who had started the Maori mission at the
Bay of Islands, and who was incidentally
the cause of Maoriland becoming a British
possession and Hongi getting firearms with
which to decimate the Maori race, paid a
last visit to his brown friends in the Iloki-
anga district. Whatever else may or may
not be true about Marsden, he gained the
confidence of the Maori to a remarkable ex-
tent. At the Anglican General Synod at
Nelson, when the Marsden centenary com-
memoration was • being discussed, it was
stated that the veteran was in the habit of
making the journey from the Bay of Islands
to the Thames on foot at a time when the
bad habits of the native race were very bad
indeed and long pig was regarded rather as
a necessary than a luxury.
Archbishop O’Reil.y (Adelaide) hardly
knows himself how he came to miss being a
soldier. His _ father and grandfather were
both officers in Wellington’s army, and he
was born and bred in barracks. Three of
his uncles fought in Canada, a brother went
through the Indian Mutiny and a nephew
was in the United States service during the
fighting in Cuba. For his own part, all he
can do now is to soak himself in military
history.
An interesting paper-covered booklet, pub-
lished in Melbourne in 1866, is “Flowers of
Rhetoric, comprising a Series of Recitations
delivered at the Fitzroy Penny Readings.”
The “Flowers” are Macaulay’s “Horatius,”
Aytoun’s “The Execution of Montrose” from
“The Lays of Scottish Cavaliers,” and Tenny-
son’s “May Queen.” Thus was the imported
population of Melbourne entertained on win-
ter evenings half a century ago. Times have
changed!
THE DEVOTED LOVER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
,, Ij 0 ND .0. N > Tuesday.—The suffragette meeting in
the Pavilion Music Hall was a stormy succession of
tights with male interrupters, who successfully re-
sisted ejectment. Mrs. Drummond, appealing for
contributions to the fighting fund, said it did not
require much to buy gunpowder. One gift was pro-
mised—a quantity of paraffin.— Cable.
Chocolates and roses—trinkets dear and bright
Only vex My Dearest. She wants dynamite!
Dynamite and petrol! Paraffin and tow !
Laden with my love gifts, cautiously I go!
Pockets stuffed with powder—kit bag full of death !
Thus I lightly step it, daring to draw breath !
She will run to meet me, when my load is seen,
Calling me her “sweetest powder magazine.”
Should a small boy bump me, I will surely die!
So, with dreadful caution, I go shuffling by.
Until I’m unloaded, she about my neck
Will not hang in rapture, lest I come to wreck.
Chocolates and roses—trinkets bright and dear—
(Heaven, these fine evenings, seems absurdly near!)
Only fret My Dearest! But her eyes are bright
When I shuffle towards her with some dynamite!
N.S.W.
HORATIO BREATHLESS.


Three Castles Cigarettes
(HEAVY WEIGHTS).
The Manufacturers are now packing in every
20® upright tin of the “Three Castles” Cigarettes
HANDSOME SATIN FLAG
«7HICH will be found most useful for decorative
W purposes. On sending to -The Flag Depart-
ment,” 267 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, 25
printed notices also packed in the tins, a
Satin Flag representing the Union Jack will be
immediately mailed to the applicant.
CUSHION.
nr*
lr
/±. -
// W/y
V
!M
rai
/.
T/M/
JV.-S
TABLE COVER.
The above are reduced sire illustrations of two
The anove ar may be utilised. Sample
ways m which some of these flags may
C l* S i'*be'seen C °exbibited in the windows of Tobac-
in the principal Cities of the Australian
States. requested to see that each 20 9
oht thi of “ Three Castles ” Cigarettes contains
up « Flaaand printed notice before leaving the
a Satin Flag ana P missing to request
ISrtinwhirdoe^ "contain them.
Three Castles” Cigarettes
THE WORLD-WIDE
FAMOUS BRAND OF
W.D.&H.O. WILLS


WORTHINGTON PUMP COMPANY LTD.
A COOUNa'°TOWERS. ,V GAS
QAS PLANTS. MINE VENTILATING FANS, AIR COMPRESSORS
FEED WATER HEATERS & PURIFIERS. OIL & STEAM SEPARATORS."
For Catalogues and
Information apply—
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY
"SISKOL" ROCKDRILLS.
"SISKOL" HAMMERDRILLS.
“SISKOL” COALCUTTERS.
International Channelling Machines Ltd.
D/ERCKS <& CO. PROP . LTD.,
465 Collins St., Melbourne.
55 York St., Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Insurance Office of Australia,
Ltd (Sydney), which was founded in 1910, and began
with a deficit of £5250 representing preliminary
exes.:—
Towards
Nov., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
-• ~ £5250
1911 .. *4115 Nil £4115 1135
Dec., Loss.
1912 .. 436 Nil _ 1571
Twelve months ago it was pointed out here that the
alleged profits for the co.’s first year were probably
fictitious. “Obviously when a policy has been only
three months in force, three-fourths of the premium,
less the office loading to cover expenses, has not been
earned, and ought to be reserved to cover the unex-
pired part of the risk.” In those first annual
accounts it was assumed that the entire premium had
been earned. Hence a net profit of £4115 was
shown. It made things look all right then; but it
did it at the expense of the second year. And the
second year is doing some of the same sort of thing
at the expense of the third or current year. For this
reason: the business was nearly doubled last year,
and thus, though the whole of the first-year pre-
miums on that new business was credited to last
year, the losses to be set against those premiums
will largely occur during this current year. The
proper thing to do, of course, is to put aside a
reserve for unearned premiums. The usual thing for
established offices is to maintain a reserve equal to
40 p.c. of the premium income. Suppose, however,
that 20 p.c. was provided in this case, though that
isn’t enough. Then the situation would be as follows:
First. year, profit £4115, less £5190 of unearned
premiums, leaving a net loss of £1075; second year,
loss £436 plus £4258 (being 20 p.c. of the addi-
tional premium income), making a total loss for
that year of £4694. Those figures are certainly not
very cheerful. But there is no cause to feel down-
hearted about it. The excellent feature is that the
co. in two years has got a net premium income of no
less than £47,241; and it has naturally cost a lot
of money to get a business of that size. ' A fire busi-
ness certainly isn’t quite the same as a life business,
because a fire policy has to be renewed every year;
nevertheless, once got, much of the fire business
sticks almost as tightly as life business does, and in
life business it is reckoned pretty good if the first-
year’s premiums cover the cost of getting the policy.
If this office can hold £30,000 of its present business,
then with average loss and exoense rates there should
be a profit of at least £5OOO in it, equal to 6 p.c.
on the capital.
The next little table shows some other move-
ments :
Net Loss. Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1911 £25,951 £6,748 £17,537 26.0 p.c. 67.5 p.o.
1912 47,241 22,443 27,845 47.5 „ 58.9 „
The first year’s rates are fictitious. The loss rate
for that period was less than normal, because few
if any of the policies expired at the end of the
year to which the premiums are credited. So also
the loss rate for the second year is under-stated
because a large proportion of the policies were
new, and the risks covered by them didn’t expire
with that year. Yet, even a 47.5 p.c. loss rate is
unsatisfactorily high. The expense rate is high,
too, but that is explained by previous remarks.
So much for the position from the shareholders’
point of view. The policy-holder can be much
surer about things. The liquid assets run to
£57,356 in excess of visible liabilities, and in
addition, there is George-street (Sydney) property
valued in the books at £15,081, and worth no
doubt more. Policy-holders are therefore .very well
protected: assuming that the risks are reasonably
well distributed, present policy-holders and a whole
lot of new policy-holders need have no doubts
about the co.’s financial position. The first few
years of a fire office are invariably a time of
struggle. But this co. starts off its third year
with an unusually big business, and business is the
foundation on which profits are built. Given capable
management the future is therefore bright.
The Australian Deposit and Mortgage
Bank (Melbourne) from the time it reduced its capi-
tal from £909,979 to £198,935: —
Dividends on To Re- Re-
Profits. Preference Shares. serves, serves.
June, 1905.. £3395 4p.c. = £3352 £43 £B9l
Dec., 1905.. 3636 4 ~,, 3352 284 1 175
June, 1906.. 4369 5 ~ ~ 4190 179 1,354
Dec., 1906.. 4816 5 ~ ~ 4190 626 1,980
On all Shares.
June, 1907.. 5547 sp.c.= 5000 547 2 597
Dec., 1907.. 6106 5„ ~ 5000 1106 3, 633
'Pref! '
5 p.c. Others.
June, 1908.. 6539 £4190 7£p.c. =£1215 1134 4 767
Dec., 1908.. 6610 4190 74 ~ „ 1215 1205 5 972
June, 1909.. 6796 4190 10",, ~ 1620 986 6 - 958
Dec., 1909.. 6277 4190 10 „ „ 1620 467 7 495
.June, 1910.. 7066 4190 10 „ „ 1620 1256 8 681
Dec., 1910.. '5532 4190 10 „ „ 1620 8 403
June, 1911.. 6678 4190 124,,,, 2025 463 8’866
Dec., 1911.. 6886 4190 124 ~ ~ 2025 671 9 537
June, 1912.. 7251 4190 124,, „ 2025 1036 1o!o73
Dec., 1912.. 8038 4190 12 J ~ ~ 2025 1823 12,396
But besides those reserves there is another fund In
1904, when the premises were turned for a while
into a slaughter-house, the £5 pref. shares were cut
down to 305., and a ss. deferred share was thrown in
tor luck. For his old £5 ordinary share the holder
gm a Is. share. But in case the butchery was too
emphatic, it was arranged that, if the old assets
brought more than they had been written down to,
the surpluses should go to a special reserve for the
benefit of ordinary and deferred shares. The old assets
are bringing more than the written-down values •
hence the growth of this special reserve:—
Profit on Total of
Total Sales Special
Sales. Completed. Reserve.
tone lona " £1 1 51 ' 3 2 1 £16,690 £16,690
June, 1908 .. 16,9/9 2,124 18 814
Dec., 1908 .. 13,514 521 19 335
June, 1909 .. 16,177 16,403 35,738
Dec., 1909 . . 15,386 474 36,212
rwT' ' ' *8,569 3,493 39,705
Dec., 1910 .. 21,724 12,351 52,056
£ une > 4914 •• 15,386 4,036 56,092
Dec., 1911 .. 21,970 3,368 59 460
June, 1912 .. 17,369 7,107 66,567
Dec., 1912 .. 34,579 5,844 72,411
The special reserve, it will be noted, is the accumu-
lated profit on sales completed. But there are many
time-payment sales; also fractions of many proper-
ties have been sold. The policy with regard to the
former has been not to include the profit until the
purchase has been completed; and where a part of a
property has been sold at a profit, part or all of that
profit has generally been used to write down the
unsold fraction to a nominal figure. No doubt this is
why the report mentions that “the realisation of
the remaining properties at reasonable prices will
very materially increase the Reserve Fund.” Mean-
time the deferred and ordinary shares are drawing a
dividend at the rate of about 4 p.c. p a oT their
capital and special reserve combined. It isn’t
ihev would hat ** ? f erhaps . t . hree times more than
• J? ave sot if provision hadn’t been made
for turning the surpluses into a fund for their special
benefit. When the last of the old securities e
been got rid of and paid for, the reserve ought to be
capita? t 0 theSe shareholders by re-transferring it to
in nThn <: ‘ ble sh ? ws the P ro »ress of the business
in some other respects:—
June, Dec., June, Dec.,
. 1905. 1911. 1912. 1912
Deposits (free) £7,78S £21,615 £21,005 £21,773
Deposits (fixed).. 358,090 282,002 276,175 259 972
House properties 172,564 89,212 84 0661 ’
tt a " d ••. •• 144,293 21,995 18’,405/ " >645
Balances owing .. 52,175 102,647 103,711 114,456
dvances.. .. 98,150 244,542 240,950 253,026
T~ S " 35,000 35,000 35,000 35,000
Diquid assets .. 65,010 86,424 98,881 93,556
As at June, 1905—just after the revaluation—pro-
at p £316,857 ; they now stand
has tnl’ 645 'A Practloa , lly all th e unproductive land
has gone. As money has come in from these sales
it has been either lent out on live securities or used
figures have e^° SltS ' J hu ? ° ne way and anoth er the
figures have improved almost out of recognition ■
and, assuming that the advances have beeif wisely
made, the . position is now good from the Xre
holders point of view and excellent from that of the
STlUtie' ? evertbelcss ’ have been shrink
j"j=! a ii ’ but that is no doubt due to the button-
ing up of pockets, especially by other banks. This
certainly has heaps of security to offer de-
posßors _if it wants their money; it could pay
hand d ’and n+>, of all debts with the cash in
nand, and its other assets are at their written-
thii • £2 12s - for ever y £1 of
the debt which the liquid assets wouldn’t pay.
* * * *
Howard Smith Co., Ltd.:
Dividends Depreciation,
r, „ „ (o P-c. pref., etc., pro-
loni’ J 10 P-e. ord.). vided for. Deficit.
190-? “ £ tn ’lqc £48,782 £20,668 £21,716
' ‘ 50,435 28,864 19,626 19,771
loru “ 51,443 29,133 19,536 16 997
1904 . . 52,418 29,721 20,466 U^CS
(T > , „ , Reserves.
1905 .. J Profit on sale of wharf 27,1811
IQfifi 30,334 22,436 / 16.993
4900 '• 57,488 30,792 25,728 17 961
190/ .. 65,827 31,814 33,785 is|lB9
(5 p.c. pref.,
15 p.c. ord.)
• • 82,608 47,602 22 588 on 7
1909 .. 137,066 50,000 Bl'S Lift
noil " 123,543 50,000 62,358 47,069
1911 • • 98,199 50,000 37 031 58 987
1912 .. 120,048 60419 25,852 92,814
But this needs a deal of explanation. The true profit
thaf the i V6 u r IS r Perhaps, than £120,048, Mnce
that “eludes £25,862 written off for depreciation,
etc. the etc. is the indefinite thing there: the
lump sum has really been added to a fund “for de-
preciation of steamers, plant, and shares in othlr
of dividends 61 Staff ’ renewals > .insurance, equalisation
ot dividends, staff superannuation and contingencies ”
fs o a f m °e U onrs^ eC a SSa t 0 eurrent depreciation
is of course a fair charge against revenue in
reduction of net profits; but any sum set aside for
the equalisation of dividends is as much profit as if
Transferred to Unexplained Total
Fund from P. Additions of
1905 toFund ’ Fund-
, •• &ZZ,436 i?9IQ7QI
1906 T ‘i la 24 ’ 365 £31,323 275,’419
Leasehold and Share Depreciation
Fund ( £5824) thrown into the
!SSI •• P am- 2*7", 688 iSSS
jqqq 22,538 365,254
isio •• ~ 81 - B S9 447,093
join •• 37,031 546,482
„ , 25,852 572,334
How much of that £572,334 is genuine reserve
fund, and how much is a set-off against decay no
outsider can possibly tell. Steamers and plant at
cost stand in the books at £887,392; this includes
money paid on account of new steamers. If 4 p c
raiWn C0 K l 2 ?oP ths ago is written off, it would
call for about £26,500, which is rather more than
past Credited to the funHor the
past year. But, then, one never knows how much
the co. has spent on renewals and replacements
etc., and paid for along with ordinary working exes’
It may be a sum eoual to the entire depreciation or
t may be a great deal less. The investor must trust
as
“‘S £*,*„£. plcb "» i! “*“• •» >»» ■>«»
Besides its ships the co. owns coal interests in-
the Caledonian eSferiS.
Assets.
~ ■„ „ 1901, 19 ° 6 - 1910. 19H loin
Goodwill £40,000 Nil Nil Nil Nil
Real estate 22,890 £7,600 £7,307 £lO 330 #u , m
Leasehold 22,779 10,515 4 691 e’l oi 1
Steamers, etc 271,901 534,211 653,679 663’, 985 887 399
Shares .. 23,744 142,265 266,913 274,465 559 576
Kd assets, 31 ’ 200 *•“* «*S K?
etc. .. 101,134 127,909 198,272 200,706 189,745
0 , . Liabilities.
Sundries 124,643 81,228 61,533 240,506
Shares have thus doubled in the year, mainly it is
understood, through the purchase of the cotton Coats’s
mterest in the Caledonian Coal Co. That was an
English co.-; but Howard Smith’s are now able to
transfer the management to Australia. A new co •
Caledonian Collieries, Ltd.—has, therefore, been
formed, m 240,000 cumulative 6 p.c. pref £1 shares
a " d 600 000 ordinaries; and Howard Smith share-
holders have been given the right to apply individu-
ally for 50,000 of the pref. shares (one in 15) First
pi T f ®' 6 p - c - on these coal shares ; then ordinaries
'P; c -. then they take an extra 1 p.c. each; but
s t°P at 8 p.c. The Caledonian Co. owned
the Aberdare and Aberdare Extended, near Cessnock
with about 33ft. of coal, though only the lower Bct’8 c t’
or 9ft. is worked at present; the Waratah, the West
Mallsend and the adjacent Killingworth The
Howard-Smith interest in this very fine group of
properties stands in the balance-sheet at cost; and
this paper can’t even guess at the market value
Partly to provide new ships, partly to add to its out-
side holdings, the co. during the year issued 250,000
new 5 p.c. cumulative pref. shares. This makes
£500,000 pref. and £250,000 ordinary capital.
One other comparison:—
1906. 1910. 1911. 1912
Liquid assets .. £292,022 £497,071 £510,734 £782 762
Liabilities .. 124,643 81,228 61,534 240,506
Surplus.. £167,379 £415,843 £449,200 £542,256
Liquid assets there include everything except free-
h°lds - Jf SR I lokl ® and stea mers. In six years
£339,106 of capital has been got in, and the sur-
plus of liquid assets (including’ share interests) has
been increased by £375,877. So in this period the
co., besides adding £36,771 to its surplus of liquid
assets and paying its dividend, has provided out
of surplus revenue for the whole of the additions
to the fleet, at a cost of £353,181. Whatever the
future may hold, the co. certainly can’t complain
of an unkind past.
The Melbourne Steamship Co., from the
time the capital was doubled by the transfer of
£75,000 from reserves:—
Added Nomi
Gross to Re- nal Re
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1904.. £13,374 5 p.c. = £3,750 £9,624 £9,624
June, 1905.. 10,767 5 „ ~ 3,750 7,017 16,641
Dec., 1905.. 8,767 5 ~ ~ 3,750 5,017 21,658
June, 1906.. 13,674 15 ~ ~11,250 2,424 24,082
Dec., 1906.. 9,187 5 „ „ 3,750 5,437 29,519
June, 1907.. 18,202 15 ~ ~11,250 6,952 36,471
Dec., 1907.. 13,117 7£ ~ ~ 5,625 7,492 43,963
June, 1908.. 15,899 10 ~ ~ 7,500 8,399 52,362
Dec., 1908.. 14,008 10 ~ ~ 7,500 6,508 58,870
June, 1909.. 13,405 8 ~ ~ 6.800 6,605 65,475
Dec., 1909.. 13,869 8 ~ ~ 6,800 7,069 72,544
June, 1910.. 15,488 8 ~ ~ 6,800 8,088 81,232
Gee., 1910.. 16,74 9 9 ~ ~ 7,650 9,099 90,331
June, 1911.. 16,978 9 ~ „ 7,650 9,328 99,659
Gee., 1911.. 12,968 9 ~ ~ 7,650 5,318 104,977
June, 1912.. 17,900 9 ~ ~ 7,650 10,250 115,227
Premiums on new shares .. 6,800 122,027
£5OOO written off 117,027
Dec., 1912.. 8,715 7 p.c. = 6,843 1,872 118[899
In previous tables the rate of dividend has been cal-
culated on the amount of capital actually paid. This
method has now become awkward, because, while the
original £75,000 of capital participated in a £
tor £ bonus, the subsequent £54,000 of capital has
had no bonus; and, in fact, some of it paid a pre-
mium. On the average, the dividend is now equal to
about 10$ p.c. on the actually paid capital. But while
some shareholders (the originals) get for the half-year
a dividend at the rate of 14 p.c. p.a., the last lot get
a shade under 6 p.c. p.a.
There is another way of pitting the last half-year’s
results: you might scratch out the line, “£5OOO
written off,” and then give the profits as £3715.
This is the position. In the previous accounts, £5OOO
was credited to a Special Renewals Fund. Now this
fund has been transferred bodily to Profit and Loss ;
but as “eight vessels of the fleet out of 11 have
undergone surveys and overhauls during the six
months at a very considerable outlay,” and as that
outlay has apparently been charged to Profit and Loss,
it seems fairer to write off the £5OOO rather than
charge the whole lot against the half-year’s revenue.
Even then a big shrinkage has occurred in the pro-
fit- The directors explain it as due to the afore-
said “considerable outlay’* plus “higher rates of
wages .increased cost of labor and material detention
m loading at Newcastle, and shrinkage of general
cargo trade, with no compensatory increase of
freights, . etc.”—and the remark about no increase in
freights is put in black letters, by way of a hint or
something. Still, almost everything depends upon
the amount the co. has spent on overhauls ; and there
is no way of getting at that. But if a co. overhauls
e *£ht-el e venths of its fleet in one half-vear, and in-
cludes the outlay with current exes., it can’t expect
to show dazzling profits. It will be safer to wait for
another term or two before shedding any tears or in-
dulging in any curses.
One thing is certain: the co. has had a wonderfully
fine 17 years of life. Formed in 1895 by the amal-
gamation of three concerns, it was given a capital of
£75,000, based on the valuation of its assets. About
three years ago another £20,000 was got in. Last
half-year £34,000 was got in (in £lO shares), with
£6BOO of premiums. Total capital actually paid
(including- the original £75,000) £135,800. Now
consider this:—
Dec.,’o4. June.’l2. Dec., T 2.
Steamships and other
non-liquid assets.. £127.118 £256,144 £330,090
Liquid assets .. 49,052 70,237 53 189
Liabilities .. .. 12,796 28,395 53,’436
Liquid assets practically balance the liabilities; so
the co. has steamships and other non-liquid assets
standing at £330,090 to represent its £135,800 of
actually paid capital. Even if a good slice should
come off that £330,090 on account of depreciation
not covered by renewals and appreciation, this isn’t
a result to cry over, especially in view of the sub-
stantial dividend that has been paid throughout.
That things are not quite as good now as they have
been is highly probable; and it is equally probable
that they are not going to be as good. It is likely
to be with this co. as it is with a heap of industrial
cos. They fell into a patch of clover and had it to
themselves for a while. Then the work-people and
others noticed that the cos. were getting fat, and
came up for a cut. In most cases they got it, in
the shape of increased wages, prices of materials, etc.
But, just as the cos. had the rich things to themselves
for a while, so it is probable that wages and other
costs will continue on the higher scale for some time
after the rich clover-patch has gone. So it is possible
or more than possible—that when the tide of pros-
perity turns, the profits of such industrial cos. will
for a time be as abnormally depressed as for a while
they were abnormally inflated.
* * * *
The Castlemaine Brewery, Ltd. (Fre-
mantle, W.A.) :
Writ-
Dividend ten To Re- Re-
Profit. and Tax. Off. serves, serves.
June, 1912..£5626 10p.c.=£3150 £BO6 £1670 £17,94]
Dec., 1912.. 5420 10 „ „ 3150 849 1421 19,362
The amounts shown as written off are added to some-
thing called variously a Depreciation and a Depre-
ciation Insurance Fund. Maintenance is charged to
Profit and Loss; but, apart from that fund, appar-
ently nothing is written off against wear and tear.
Hence in the foregoing this fund is not included
with reserves. The paid capital is £60,000, and the
liabilities amount to £5856. This money and the
reserves are chiefly represented by property, plant
rolling stock, goodwill and water right, all thrown
into one heap and valued at £77,228. Stock, ad-
vances and other assets total £19,726. There isn’t
much useful information to be got out of that; the
paper assets may be £2OOO or they may be £25,000
Two definite points, nevertheless, rise above the ’haze
—the small amount of debt and the wide margin of
profit in excess of the requirements of a 10 p c
dividend.
Tooheys, Ltd., of the Standard Brewery
Sydney:—
In Reduc-
N®t tion of
Profits. Dividends. Deficit. Deficit
Jan., 1906.. £9,939 4p.c. = £1 l.noo £6O 731
Reserve funds (£18,000) written off ; c-pital ’
written down from £550,000 ro £400.000
(goodwill reduced to £22,500), leaving ir oq-,
July, 1906.. 12.128 5 p.c. = 10,000 £2,128 14103
Jan.. 1907.. 11,528 5„ „ 10,000 1,528
July, 1907.. 13,471 5„ „ ] O ,OOO 3,471 9,104
To Re- R e .
„ serves, serves
Jan., 1908.. 19,964 5,, „ 10,000 9 964 sen
July, 1908.. 13,977 5„ „ 10,000 3,977 4 837
Jan., 1909.. 18,796 5 ~ ~ 10,000 8,796 13 633
July, 1909.. 17,545 5,, ~ 10,000 7 545 9/170
Jan., 1910.. 19,911 5,, ~ 10,000 9 911 3|’o«q
July, 1910.. 20,025 6„„ 12,000 8 025 39114
Jan., 1911.. 22,756 6 ~ ~ 12.000 10,756 4q’s7n
July, 1911.. 20,398 6,, ~ 12,000 8,398 58*268
Jan., 1912.. 26,867 7 „ „ 14,000 12 567 7113 s
July, 1912.. 24,086 7 „ „ 14,000 81921
Jan., 1913.. 27,750 7 ~ ~ 14,000 13,750 94’,97i
The Cold Tea party doesn’t seem to be making much
progress. Here’s a little compilation showing the
Australian per capita consumption of liquor
the figures for 1893 and 1903 being Coghlan’s and
those for 1910 (the last available) Knibbs’s:-
Beer, etc. Wine. Spirits,
mno Elions. gallons. gallons.
1893 .. 9'Bo 0'92 0-7°
1903 .. 10-71 0-94 0-74
1910 .. 11-69 0-5 o-79
That, in spite of closed pubs, is nearly an extra
gallon of beer per head since 1903, and nearly two
gallons per head more than it was in i«qo
years ago the brewery people aL. 8, A few
alarmed. They didn’t know how the 1 genuinely
vote was going to hit them. They are FIT T’ on,at >
now Two things only do they realfy f Par lot easi «
alisation and national prohibition Tn T • nation-
woman vote, which is largely the first > the
hostile The clerical gentfeSLi is *
idea of making him a partner in “vice - * a< \ the
for national prohibition, the general Li' And as
less and less disposed it p? lc , se «ns
made it unpopular. When the devil i« c?T lty has
the devil a saint may be. For the S _ a f?ain,
being sick, the devil a saint is he V'?’ not
celling 50,000 vendors’ shares and Tritin’ TT 1- car >-
500,000 down from £1 to 16s„
shares back again to what used to he ™ flnds lts
now 4s. above par. tl( par and ip
, .F™ years ’ history is shown hereunder in ,
tail (figures are from the balance-sheet,w e de ‘
dividend appropriations, etc., for the
Jan., Jui y> Jan
Liabilities less cash .. .. £83*085 fm’l, „ 191 ®-
Breweries, hotels, etc. . 337 700 £80 ’ 772
Stocks.. .. .. ;; 68291 He’ma 38 '-981
Book debts .. .. 112V54 85 ,297
Gross profit on brewings, etc. 50’,039 6M45 5
Rent and interest .. .. 7 4 q o Goon /3 ’ 922
Management, wages and * ,229
So 35,054 43,588 49 796
as to
there’ o are °£ 3 fon more o^deM^on”^' *
C a° S great IMpVdi
which assets that are liable P to decav h™V got Wlth
ten down. The directors sav fthLn been writ '
the habit of saying ft) : “The ,nZ' have got »to
7ia J e been maintained in a high state* ff - piant
and all expenditure in connection therewith l ffit 'T ncy ’
defrayed out of current revenue as bee “
Nevertheless, ostensibly to provide for
of plant and machinery, an additional £ af/ionT 011
been written right off during the SLM 1,000 has
That looks very sound. And nLS f ° Ur years -
That the community wiil always be as sffl arG f good *
has been during the bo roZTtnL Ufflt as
But the working man is goTnf to have a bS sible ’
Potion ? f What he Produces than te u e f if 0 '
and that, among other things, means beef thT ’
will be slumps in the aggregate consumntinn i be F e
temporary set-backs; but it is the general /renH® t 0
are talking about. And, though thlre will We
be the risk of a Wowser uprising w h( T 1 f h alw ‘? y 1 8
devil may consent to do something’ that h the . n sl ok
sorry for afterwards, there isn’t a? I”? be
excess of competition in this trade as n most
The small brewery’s day seems nasi i thers-
ago there were 52 beer mills in N % w 6 Ve years
by year the little ones h?ve di"d, an!'the at,? 6 "
turns give only 38 altogether. d th latest re '
(lwb£2£>“ jAtoal Builmng Society
Profit on Writ-
Property
July 190 S TOSO' If-'o' ~ °”- •“•«.
{*»•; SS:: *® tr-* j; *» ««•
July, 1906.. 1789 317 71 „ L,245
•Tan., 1907.. 2087 581 ?| ” ” "00 ] 7 - 3 ? 9
July, 1907.. 1958 313 1752 Z Bl5
Jan., 1908.. 1952 288 74 1752 1 ° Fq’?? 4
July. 1908.. 2102 753 8 {ore 7no 19 ’’ 72
Jan., 1909.. 2009 379 8 19m 00 Fo’sm
July, 1909.. 2211 161 8 ” FaFo ~~ i?’ 891
Jan., 1910.. 2319 294 8 ” ” FOF9 “ 20,351
July, 1910.. 2233 1239 8 ” ” \l\l f 1 ’ 1 ? 52
Jan., 1911.. 2342 1043 8 1010 501 22,111
July, 1911.. 2626 1710 8 ” ” FaFo 23,584
&:SiS:: S *g ?; •• »; - S
J . 0..S 60R sr l s , 'i™ri a i“ ” gfa
bS SfrotSh ”‘f ‘whT't’hefT
the wreckage of the boom. The £5O 000 n 7 !
Protection”” 31 d Sp ? t rit ’ alo " g with"TrTinsfalnfenifo?
and as a resnltHf T° rk t° < ?° and money to spend;
Tho th ht h ° tail ’ lnCso a S "ets Pr which y thiMocfety
thought were worth £lOOO presently brought £l2OO
or so, and reserves accumulated. Hence paper
for restoring Ztll l ° throW at "he dirSs
The old 19 n o of the supposedly-lost capital.
changed into 57,357 eS shires /"each ‘""" Com
after the ciean!
_. . . July,’ol. Jan.,'l2. Julv *l9 Ton mq
?“£ :: £ &°i 5 £ SI llll‘
c 3? ’i-M 19 S S
The society has made fine progress in quitting- fore
closed properties, and putting the proceeds into Uve
advances , and naturally the profits have moved along
aMe 4f qUen - e ; from the money thus avail
money fnfK h - aS " * risked , much • other peoples
than B waf% m6SS IS only about £ 3500 more
course tf He and it’s a fine thing, of
course, to do without other people’s money if you
the risksTe iTo Pr with y ° uy own.
reading the °<F A^ ad ’ one ca " t tell merely from
r aaing the line. Advances, £106,509.” But as
—whfch’ I jn e P S i U H ably ’ made on building society terms
ouJht to l e i! • [opavment by instalments-they
ught to be all right. In fact, in spite of the Mel-
thoanmebn^- nenCe : e th T should b e few safer things
than building-society business. The two eircum-
f“en hIC l h a « liable to produce disaster are (1)
? bidden slump of inflated values, and (2) the
mmv!!-r oUt f of , SUms ■ of borrowed monev out of all
proportion to the society’s capital. No sign of either
”n thfe*caw” 01 ™ 1 * a ” CeS iS Showing over horizon
The Wellington Gas Co. (M.L.)
Net rp p -p
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1905 ' £99~242 in PC ' = £ U M 2 ~ £34 ’ 871
1906 " f lB 788 ro ” ” F!’ 457 £l,! - 785 5 b 656
1907 ”26 968 io ” ” 12,457 6 ’ 331 57 - 987
190/ .. 6,268 10 ~ ~ 12,457 13,811 71,798
1908 Premiums on new shares •• 2,099 73,897
1908 .. 14,299 10 p.c. = 12,561 1,738 75,635
iqoq Premiums on new shares .. 8,807 84,442
19UJ .. 17,151 10 p.c. = 14,911 2,240 86,682
loin Premiums on new shares .. 272 86,954
1-10.. 1 / ,908 10 p.c. = 16,405 1,593 88,547
ion Premiums on new shares .. 7,746 96,-/93
1911 .. -,3,3 r 2 10 p.c. = 17,925 5,397 101,690
rrenuums on new shares .. 8,830 110,520
1912.. 30,325 Ord!'l0 P ,', C ’} 24 > 35 1 5 > 974 116,194
° f th at las t line may be right, and some of it
that refll f° ng ' T., he acc °unts are presented in a way
:,b at . reheets a blaze of credit on all concerned, pre-
‘ g tha t the Object is to make it as hard as pos-
treifhle .“derstaud what the co. is doing. The chief
in Hill that ’ wh i le . fresh capital is being got in
orrli!lr,! et +l S °il e e? f I F, 5 p - c - P ref - and some of it
in y ’ lbe Profit and Loss account is debited with
nref ]L SUm r fP rese nting the full year’s dividend on
Swee ?/“' 5 a half-year’s dividend on ordinary
not H th v a mount that will be called for to
fen’/ ,TllfFb er half-year s dividend on ordinary shares
in t mentioned. It is an untidy way of doing things.


To those about to Travel
and who require Expert
Management and Absolute
Security for their Estates
during their absence.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited).
is specially qualified to act as
ATTORNEYS UNDER POWER 8 AGENTS.
Regular Accounts. Fixed and Low Charges.
The Company is now acting for many
prominent business people temporarily
absent from the State.
Write or call for full information.
2, 4 and 6 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
A. J. MACKENZIE, Manager.
sd
Gas Engines.
Suction Gas Plants.
EFFICIENCY. ECONOMY.
KYNOCH LTD.,
Melbourne.
Brisbane.
Sydney.
Perth.
A great mistake, when erecting new works or re-
arranging old ones, is often made in constructing the
building and installing machinery ere looking round
for means of transport of the raw material, half-
manufactured and finished goods. Messrs. Adolf
Bleichert and Co., of London, have issued various
catalogues and leaflets, illustrating and describing a
few of the many transport systems and plants which
they have supplied, and which show the solution of
the transport question and the advantages of em-
ploying such appliances. W. and J. Lempriere,
Melbourne and Sydney, are the Australian representa-
tives, and would be pleased to hear from those in-
terested. A specially trained engineer is retained to
consult and advise.*
Mine managers and engineers contemplating Re-
inforced Concrete construction should write for par-
ticulars of the Indented Steel Bar, which gives the
greatest bond, and is the strongest and cheapest re-
inforcement on the market. Used by the N. S.
Wales and Queensland railways for bridges, by the
Sydney Water and Sewerage Board for elevated re-
servoirs, by the N. S. Wales Government Architect,
and by all the leading architects. Should guaranteed
designs be required for concrete structures, our ex-
pert will be pleased to furnish plans and descrip-
tions. Apply, Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.*
* * * *
In all smithing work high-class iron can be more
safely manipulated at varying temperatures than
steel or ordinary iron. It is for this reason that
Best Yorkshire Farnley Iron is preferred by engi-
neers, where toughness, great strength and close
grain are needed. Whatever the specification, Iron
of the Farnley type does not vary, but is simply the
best that can be produced from what is really
wrought iron. “Farnley” Bars of all sections sup-
plied from local stock bv Sole Agents of the Farnley
Iron Comp., Ltd. Bell's Asbestos, Ltd., 315 Kent
Street, Sydney.*
From June to September the Bacchus Marsh Shire
Council (Vic.) crushed and spread 3000 cub. yds. of
road metal, at an average cost of 2s. 6d. per cub.
yd., and the cost of the spalls per cub. yd. averaged
2s. 4d., making a total cost of 4s. lOd. per cub. yd.,
broken and spread. Their last contract under the
hand-breaking system amounted to 6s. 3d. per cub.
yd., stacked on the roadside, and spreading Is. ;
total 7s. 3d., as against 4s. lOd. — a saving of 2s. sd.
per cub. yd. This result was obtained by using a
Bigelow 16in. x 9in. Patent Stoneerusher, and the
Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
manufacturers of these breakers.* [3
Extract from Financial News. London, July 12,
1911: “The annual report of The Colonial Mutual
Life Assurance Society affords abundant evidence
that ‘Forward’ is still the watchword of the directors,
for in every direction admirable progress has been
achieved.”*
ir * * *
Pioneer Woodpipe does not require caulking at
the joints, and takes less labor to instal than any
other class of pipe. The pipe can be tapped under
pressure by unskilled labor. The Australian Wood
Pipe Co., "Ltd., Balmain, N.S.W., have just issued
a new catalogue.*
Economy. Scrap your old steam or gas plant and
buy new. This is good advice, for a modern plant
such as we can supply will pay for itself in two or
three years .in fuel alone. Consult us about your
power propositions. Ilaes and Eggers, Ltd., 163
Clarence Street, Sydney.*
Harringtons Ltd. are now in a position to quote
the lowest fees for all kinds of assay, analytical and
metallurgical work. Expert advice on ore treatment,
smelting, bullion, refining, etc. This firm have now
a most up-to-date and completely fitted laboratory,
directed by a first-class analyst from Johnson and
Sons, London, assayers to the Bank of England,
H.M. Mint, The Council of India, etc. Any work of
the above nature entrusted to this reliable firm of
photographic manufacturers will receive immediate
and prompt attention. For full particulars and
prices apply to Harringtons, Ltd., 380 George Street,
Sydney.* #
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting ?
If so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 163 King Street,
Sydney.* C 1
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
Messrs. Babcock & Wilcox, Ltd., have received
the order for the supply of all the steam generating
plant and accessories for the electrification of the
Victorian Government Railways. The acceptance of
this firm’s tender was strongly recommended by Mr,
Merz, the English expert. The contract amounts to
£258,000.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co.. 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Assayers, Mine Managers and Prospectors write
to H B. Silberberg and Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, and at Melbourne, for particulars concerning
mining requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun s
disc pulverisers to 200 mesh ; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospector’s balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles; chemicals; etc.*
Patents. —Consult W.SIGMONT, Certificated Patent
Attorney (by exam.), Mech. and Elect. Engineer, 60
Castlereagh Street, Sydney. Information free.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
For some years past the co. has had a debenture
debt of £ 50,000 ; but this has been got rid of dur-
ing the year by the issue of £72,401 of pref. capital,
of which, however, £79 was unpaid at the end of the
year. The change from debentures to capital ex-
plains some of the spring in profits, because hitherto
the interest on the borrowed money has, of course,
been deducted from the profits, whereas now the in-
terest on the corresponding amount is included with
the dividends. Of ordinary capital there is £94,886
in £lO shares paid to £9 10s„ and £76,950 in
£lO shares fully paid, and £52,741 in £lO shares
paid to £9—with a few pounds representing unpaid
calls in most cases. This, also, gives the accounts
an untidy appearance. As for the true inwardness of
the business, it is hard to arrive at anything very
definite. The reserves certainly have been growing
fast; but the question is how much (if any) of those
reserves are a set-off against accumulating rust and
decay. Most gas cos. provide for that depreciation
by paying for extensions out of surplus revenue, in
addition, of course, to paying for current renewals.
Sometimes if they want to hide profits, they stuff
away into extensions far more than is necessary to
counterbalance wear and tear. In that case, the ten-
dency is for the book value of the assets —that is to
say, the assets which have been charged to capital
account —to show an increasing percentage of earn-
ings. In 1907 this co.’s fixed assets were valued at
£241,120, and the revenue was £80,678 = 33i p.c.
Now the fixed assets are £421,653, and the revenue
£97,124 =23 p.c. That slump certainly doesn’t look
as though any revenue had been stuffed away in ex-
tensions, etc. On the contrary, it is plain that the
capital isn’t earning anything like what it used to.
The business may be, and no doubt is, solid and very
profitable; but. all the same, some of the reserves
are under suspicion. And that being so, some of the
alleged profits are under suspicion also.
* * * *
The South Brisbane Gas and Light
Co. (Q.):—
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves
June, 1905.. £3Oll 7 p.c. = £1929 £3 £1079 £13,159
Dec., 1905.. 3327 7 ~ ~ 1929 433 965 14,124
June, 1906.. 3016 7 „ „ 1929 4 1083 15,207
Dec., 1906.. 3438 7 ~ ~ 1929 1509 16,716
June, 1907.. 3208 8 ~ ~ 2205 31 97% 17,688
Dec., 1907.. 3940 8 „ ~ 2205 206 1529 19,217
June, 1908.. 4070 9 ~ „ 2481 1589 20,806
Dec., 1908.. 4805 10 ~ ~ 2756 19 2030 22,836
June,1909.. 4627 10 ~ ~ 2756 658 1213 24,049
Dec., 1909.. 5329 10 ~ ~ 2756 2573 26,622
June, 1910.. 5456 10 ~ „ 2756 252 2448 29,070
Dec., 1910.. 5666 10 ~ ~ 2756 2910 31,980
June, 1911.. 4542 10 ~ ~ 2756 1786 33,766
Dec., 1911.. 5854 10 ~ ~ 2756 3098 36,864
June, 1912.. 4290 10 ~ „ 2756 1534 38,398
Premiums received .. .. .. 3558 41,956
Reservescapitalised(bonu« shares), £18,221 .. 23,735
Assets written up, £14,663 .. .. .. 38,398
Dec., 1912.. 5982 10 p.c.= 2929 3053 41,451
There has been another issue of shares on terms that
are not sufficiently explained. There were already
70,000 ordinaries fully paid to 10s., and 50,000 pref.
10s. shares paid to 9s. Now another 80,000 pref.
10s. shares have been issued, 72,883 of them paid to
ss. and 7117 fully paid. Instead of capitalising re-
serves or issuing bonus shares, the plan was adopted
of issuing the bulk of these at a discount (unmen-
tioned), and the balance were sold at a premium (also
unmentioned). The aggregate discount was £14,662
more than the aggregate premium, and this amount
of paper capital is represented by tacking a corres-
ponding figure on to the book value of the fixed
assets. It is a clumsy, roundabout method, adopted,
no doubt, with the object of making things as
obscure as possible. The frank way of putting it
has been shown in the table, after an amount of
figuring that ought to have been unnecessary. The
plain fact seems to be that 72,883 bonus shares have
been issued paid to 55., while 7117 fully-paid 10s.
shares have been issued —probably to the public—
at 10s. premium. The ultimate effect of it all is
that South Brisbane is now paying 10 p.c. dividend
on £18.221 of capital which never came out of the
shareholders’ pockets. The consumers supplied certain
profits, which the co. didn’t disclose, and they have
now also the joy of paying dividends on the amount.
The co. has had a rattling good time of late. Take
a 10 years’ run: —-
Dec., 1902. June, 1912. Dec. 1912.
Liabilities .. £20,352 £17,876 £18,098
Liquid assets . . 6,088 11,304 19,030
Deficiency . . £14,264 £6,572
Surplus . . £932
The only capital got in during the 10 years is that
lately raised —-£5000 on first pref. shares, £3558 on
second pref. shares, and £3558 of premiums; total
£12,116. Meantime, as shown just now, a net lia-
bility of £14,264 has been changed into a net liquid
surplus of £932. Also, all extensions and additions
to plant have been paid for; and what they have
amounted to can be judged from the fact that as at
December, 1902. the half-year’s revenue (gas sales,
etc.) was £7262, while for the past half-year it
was £15.469. The future depends a good deal on
what Parliament likes to make it. In N.S.W. Parlia-
ment has mst cut down divs. on gas cos.’ canital now
existing, or to be created inside six months, to 10
p.c., and on future capital to 6 p.c., with slight in-
creases in case of reduction of gas rates; and there
can be no further issue of bonus shares. This fol-
lows pretty closely on English precedent—-and Eng-
lish precedent is supposed to be a sacred thing, some-
how related to the blessed word Mesopotamia.
* * * *
Albury Gas Co. (Albury, N.S.W.) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends, serves, serves.
Dec., 1904 .. £524 10 p.c. =£375 £149 £lO7l
June, 1905 .. 418 10 „ „ 375 43 1114
Dec., 1905 .. 554 10 „ „ 375 179 1293
June, 1906 . . 516 10 „ „ 375 141 1434
Dec., 1906 .. 508 10 „ „ 375 133 1567
June, 1907 . . 488 10 „ „ 375 113 1680
Dec , 1907 . . 543 10 „ „ 375 168 1848
June, 1908 !! 673 10 ” „ 375 298 2146
Dec., 1908 .. 613 10 „ „ 375 238 2384
June, 1909 .. 672 10 „ „ 370 297 2681
Dec., 1909 .. 731 10 „ „ 375 356 3037
June, 1910 .. 779 10 „ „ 375 404 3441
Dec., 1910 . . 719 10 „ „ 375 344 3785
June, 1911 . . 663 10 „ „ 375 288 4073
Dec., 1911 .. 512 10 „ „ 370 137 4210
June, 1912 .. 445 10 „ „ 375 70 4280
Dec., 1912 . . 645 10 „ ~ 375 270 4550
But as £3793 of the reserves stands to the credit
of a Plant and Gasometer Depreciation Fund, the
true reserves are probably a good deal less; also the
true profits may be less than the table shows, ot
the position is probably quite sound. This shows
things from another aspect:—
T; ...... 1902. 1911. 1912.
Liabilities .. ..£5OBl £5102 £5310
Liquid assets .. .. 909 3723 4136
Deficit .. ..£4172 £1379 £1174
Thus, in 10 years, after paying the dividend and pro-
viding for current repairs, renewals and extensions,
£2998 has been put by—not a bad showing on a
capital of £7500. There may be a general deprecia-
tion which is not covered by current repairs and re-
newals ; but that excess ought to be more than cov-
ered by the extensions. Anyway, the revenue from
the works last half-year was £2233, as against £1603
10 years ago, which suggests that the extensions have
been considerable. On these figures it seems safe to
say that the dividend has been earned, with two or
three thousand to the good, in 10 years.
* * * *
For the man who isn’t in the swim B. H.
Junction North is dangerous goods to touch. There
are pronounced bull and bear sections; and just at
present the bears are squealing because the bulls,
who are in command, didn’t say there wasn’t going
to be a call this month. Of course if a man wants
a parcel of shares for an investment the tricks of
the market don’t matter. But the Junction North
isn’t a mine for the investor. A few months ago it
was estimated that the reserves were 263,000 tons,
and that is only about four years’ supply. The
lode in this mine, however, plays contortion tricks
that would be worth a place in a circus, and it is
quite possible that close up to the neighboring
North’s boundary there is half as much again below
the present levels. But as the body gets shorter and
shorter, it will not pay to go after it to the last
ton. The eo., besides its own tailings and slimes,
has nearly 300,000 tons of slimes bought from other
mines—Block 14, British and North. Some of the
prices paid or to be paid for this stuff were so pre-
cipitous that mill men who hate slimes chuckled at
manager Palmer for a greenhorn. But lots of things
have been found out lately about the treatment of
these zincy materials, and if the markets stand to
the co. it will do far better out of them than this
paper once expected that it would.
The public is coming into Carpathia tin
(N.S.W.) when the men with inside knowledge are
getting out. Not that the insiders know anything
about the bottom. But they do know that (1) there
are 120,000 shares, (2) there is no surface equipment,
including water supply, (3) 80 p.c. of surface tin
deposits don’t go down, and (4) though the surface
stuff is rich it will take a big slice of the profit from
it to provide surface equipment, while another big
slice may go in the search for the lode which may
or may not be there.
Occidental (N.S.W.) reports a further
loss of £2823 for its half-year, but the directors
still continue to pour honey into the badly-soured
milk. Work has again been resumed underground,
after a brief spell, due to the dry weather. The
trouble, however, is not the mine itself, but the
failure of the main treatment plant upon which a
pile of expectations was built. A new metallurgist
was recently called in to patch up the job, and his
remarks aren’t complimentary. The sand-leaching
plant has had to be slung out, and 30 head of
stamps hung up, so as not to swamp the inadequate
slime plant. The Pachuca tanks come in for a
special word of condemnation. When the new man
arrived they were choked up and damaged, so that
the old agitating tanks that hadn’t yet been re-
moved had to go on with the job. The Pachuca tanks
are now declared to be workable, but only at a
devilish cost for compressed air. Chief among the
promised improvements are the concentration arrange-
ments, the roasting of the concentrates produced (in-
stead of shipping them to Cockle Creek), and higher
recoveries and lower costs at the slime plant. Occi-
dental’s past performances, however, don’t encourage
too much faith, though evidently some of the share-
holders still retain a bit, as they have absorbed
the whole of the recent issue of 28,000 contributing
shares of 10s. each.
* * * *
The C.S.A., Cobar Tinto and Cobar Glad-
stone have been put under option in London, and an
expert is to come out and see for himself.
* * * *
Mount Boppy Block 51 (N.S.W.) is to
be registered with a capital of £20,000 in 2s.
shares. Of late there have been some promising
finds, and it is now said that the two south lenses
of ore have been traced to their junction point. The
shaft is to be slapped down another 100 or 200 feet
without delay.
* * * *
Melbourne Cope’s Creek (N.S.W.) went
£559 to the bad last half-year, plus a trifle for de-
preciation of plant; but this still left the co. on
December 31 with about £l2OO of liquid assets
over liabilities. The co. has been picking up odd
bits of tin land, but they are none too plentiful;
and the future is precarious. For a few terms, how-
ever, a comfortable profit should be shown.
The Elsmore, which at one time looked
among the best of the Tingha (N.S.W.) tin-sluicing
propositions, has the want-of-water trouble badly.
At the best of times it costs a lot of money to get
enough water on to the hard ground ; and lately the
water hasn’t been there to get. Nevertheless by
picking its ground, the co. made a profit of £ll4B
for the half-year; but £l7B comes off that for de-
preciation. Costs will continue high; but there are
still some rich runs to sluice.
Instructed, no doubt, by Labor Minister
Collier, the mine inspectors at Kalgoorlie and be-
yond are stirring up the Dago in regard to the lan-
guage test. A number have already been weeded out
of the ranks of underground men, but, according to
local reports, the examination is still perfunctory.
In some mines it is alleged that nearly half of the
workmen are aliens, many of whom are unable to
communicate with British workmen in case of dan-
ger arising from mis-fires, etc. In some cases it is
asserted that Britishers are being dismissed to make
room for the non-English speaking foreigner. A
suggestion has been made that the best way to end
the present state of affairs would be to impose a
heavy fine on the company every time an under-
ground worker is found who is unable to pass the
language test.
Hannan’s Reward (W.A.) decided at its
last meeting to carry out certain prospecting at the
south end of the 400 ft., and preparations are now
being made. This work, like a hundred and one
other bits of development that have been put in
hand during the last year or two at the north or
steerage end of the Kalgoorlie field, is reckoned to
be a matter of great interest by the local papers;
but the results begin to heap scorn on the stock
phrase.
- Another attempt is being made to make
money out of the deep leads at Kanowna, from which
a million sterling is alleged to have already been ex-
tracted. Absence of pumping facilities has hitherto
prevented mining at depth, but these have now been
provided, and things, according to local experts, are
going to hum. There is a doubt, however, about the
gold contents of the remaining wash.
Including 14,223 tons raised by tributors,
Associated Northern (W.A.) treated 20,476 tons from
its Kalgoorlie property during the year ended Sept.
30, and it also milled 7292 tons of purchased ore.
After deducting £4150 for working expenses at Ora
Banda and £845 expenditure on plant at Kalgoorlie,
the accounts show a credit balance for the year of
£16,900. London and Adelaide office expenses reduce
this to £11,518. On Sept. 30 cash and securities
amounted to £54,000, as against an indebtedness of
£12,500; but profit derived from ore treatment at
the Ora Banda show has increased the co.’s credit
balance by about £20,000 since then, and will con-
tinue to do so at the rate of between £6OOO and
£7OOO a month. Operations have again had to be
susDended in Mexico, but negotiations are in progress
to let the Board’s mysterious venture there on tribute.
The co.'s future now mainly depends on Ora Banda,
from which divs. of 4s. to ss. a year are expected.
Bones of managing director’s report in-
corporated in official circular issued to Bullfinch share-
holders: “Am very pleased with the look of the lodes
at the 210 ft. and 310 ft levels. We are, of course,
unable at present to spare much money for the devel-
opment of these bodies, as our finances have all been
required for the purchase and erection of plant. Had
we been able to spend more on development during the
last six months, I am confident that we would have
placed the mine in a brilliant position for the start-
ing of crushing operations. However, the present
position is entirely satisfactory. .. .The general man-
ager is quite confident that he can maintain a 60s.
grade, instead of having, as previously advised, to
limit_ ourselves to a grade between 40s. and 50s. As
working costs are sure to be below £1 per ton,
we are justified in expecting a profit of from £lO,OOO
to £12,000 per month when the plant is in full
operation. This will soon clear us of our liabili-
ties and leave us in a good dividend-paying posi-
tion. .. .Tests made with the ore from the new find
at 310 ft. show that we can obtain a high extraction
with our present plant. This stone will also be of
incalculable value to us in providing a hard rock
to mix with the soft, oxidised material from the
upper 1eve1.... A large tonnage of oxidised ore is
dumped on the surface, which will relieve our min-
ing costs for the first few months.” It would seem
from the above that, even if the best happens, some
time must elapse before the co. gets square, builds
up a cash reserve, and pays its first dividend on its
500,000 or so issued shares.
Central and West Boulder (W.A.) has
acquired 19,000 out of 45,000 issued shares in a
Nigerian tin venture for £6OOO. It previously did
well out of a speculation in the same country.
Hopes are still entertained of making money out of
the co.’s principal lease at Kalgoorlie. Of the other
two one has been thrown up, and the second is more
of a handicap than a help.
When it comes to records, it would be
hard to find a worse alluvial smoodger than the
Great Southern Consols, Rutherglen (Vic.). Some-
how after a disappearance for a year or so, it always
bobs up serenely. Of so little account as a stayer is
the co. that all it shows in Mines Department re-
ports is—calls, 38s. 3d. on 40,000 shares; divs.,
£19,000. The reason of this poor showing is that
the co. has had to mark time till it could get the
plant going at the shaft. Then it had to find out if
the levels had settled down like Rutherglen drives
have the knack of doing. Manager Ramsay now
screams with delight because he could crawl to the
end of the level without pinching his equator. That
is only his first little bit of training. His time will
come when he is in the gutter slopping up expenses
for a weary board to finance.
North Nuggetty Ajax, Daylesford. got p
flat make a day or two ago, and shares were hit up
again. The old Ballarat crowd were quick off to
“cover up” the scrip they had piled into Queen-
street when the latter decided to hold the reins. The
hope has been that the No. 6 level on the north drive
would give good stuff, but the Ajax stuff is not real
stingo there, so Queen-street can’t quit its load of
shares. Yields are now down to under the Mwt.
grade, and it looks as if Bill Rain’s words as to the
show being a 15s. crop, are correct. Nuggetty Ajax,
too, is very feeble. It hooks out only 140 oz. for the
month from 900 tons. This looks as if this show at
last has to admit that successful scratching is over
and that hard calls have to be faced.
* * * *
From the days of W. R. Wilson and
Frank G. Duff onward, something has always hap-
pened to Lyell Blocks (Tas.). All that has been
coughed up so far has been calls, directors’ salaries
and office perks. Even Colin Templeton at length
forsook the board table of the Blocks to rub knees
with Bowes Kelly and Wm. Jamieson in the rich
pastures of the Lyell Co. Yet there are some who
remain faithful to the Blocks, and of these the chief
is manager Ferguson, brought from a gold district
to unravel the Lyell Blocks tangles. Once his
trouble was with copper-bearing clays. When those
were worked out the truth dawned on him that the
North Lyell shoots of ore were underlying into the
Blocks. Shaft sinking then became his programme.
Unfortunately, as The Bulletin was able to point
out, the underlay changed. The Blocks since then
has kept in the vale of calls; and Comstock develop-
ments and the blankness of the crosscut to the North
Lyell boundary at 1000 ft. have made the market as
shy of the mine as a rat of a terrier. Ferguson,
nevertheless, remains hopeful; his conclusions are
that the underlay will change again, and that the
depth of 1200 ft. will bring him the ore. Perad-
venture that is the reason why Neale Wigg has left
the Lyell board, and why Sticht comes to Melbourne
for a serious talk. George Swinburne, by the way,
takes up Wigg’s £lOOO job among the Lyell direc-
tors.
* * * *
It took all little “Jimmy” Lewis’s
M.C.E.’s and M.l.C.E.’s to snuggle round the awk-
ward corners on the road to Merton’s tin show at
Rosebery (Tas.). Lewis as an acting ’Varsity prof,
always swims deep, but he stuck at the sedimentary
stuff. He commits himself to 200,000 cub. yards of
drift, which he considers bears a greater similarity
to Gladstone, long dead, than to the Bnseis lead.
“The tin is richer nearer the surface than the Bri-
seis,” he adds, but says that from “its fineness the
tin is harder to save and the bulk is much less.
On the lowest assay, allowing for a 50 p.c. loss ot
tin, and with costs kept below Is. per cub. yard,
Lewis gauges that the 200,000 cub. yards he regards
as proved are likely to yield £30,000, of which
£lO,OOO should be profit. As there is plenty of
drift under foot Lewis wants more prospecting and
the verification of his surmises. This is honest if it
isn’t convincing. Still, Merton can console himsel
that he has got enough out of Lewis to entitle him
to get more cash into his show.
Croydon (Q.) still has a kick left It
produced 12,7690 z. of bullion last year, valued at
£37 176. The average yield was 2.280 z. of Croydon
s-old per ton. A recent crushing from the Golden
Gate United returned 6980 z. (value £2 12s. 10d.
per oz.) from 170 tons. A sixpenny dividend has
been paid, and more will probably drop in ; for this
old show, after its long abandonment, is said to
be looking well. #
Charters Towers is in the doldrums, its
three most promising propositions—Brilliant Deeps,
Block and New Queen Cross— having slumped badly
in the local market. The Cross crushed 338 tons for
7290 z ( £2408), with sands and concentrates to
come’ Over £7 per ton is satisfactory; but there
are intrusions of granite and the proved stopmg area
is very limited especially for a co. with 200,000
shares.” Deeps are out of favor because the western
No 5 drive has run into a big reef of low grade
stone. It should, however, be remembered that
blanks are characteristic of this mine.
The Halley Oil Co. has been registered in
Melbourne to bore for oil at Trinity Reach, on the
Victoria River-,in the Northern Territory. The capi-
tal is £lo,o(join 40 shares of £250 each, 20 being
prefs. and 20 ordinary. The directors are Drysdale
Brown (Attorney-General of Vic.), Hagelthorn (Hon.
Minister in the Vic. Government), and Allen Tye, fur-
niture merchant. The other signatories include
William Halley, the Yankee oilman.
“Looker-on” : In the matter of top hamper,
I’ll back the Eleanora (N.S.W.) to beat that
northern copper mine. According to my latest
count, it was taking 10 officers, most of them highly
paid, to look after 26 miners. If the methods of
working were superb, I wouldn’t have anything to
say; but in this multitude of counsellors there is
merely confusion.
* * * *
One Interested: The 655. shares are worth
about 305.; but they are not “listed” on the Stock
Exchange, and there is no stable market... .D.S.A.:
Don’t know; we keep track of Australian cos., and
if readers want to risk themselves with foreign con-
cerns, it must be their own funeral —if there is
a funeral.... British Underwriter: Can’t see that
our method is unequitable. If the British offices
have 10 times the premiums they are surely liable
to be hit 10 times as hard... .W.J.G.: Can only refer
you to the last post mortems of the Mvo offices —B.
21/3/T2 ; and B. 9/4/T2.


111?
xiiiiliitini***
HfERIHG
HEERINC’S
COPENHAGEN
CHERRY
BRANDY.
WORLD
03NM0N3M
fsd
BRAND*
STUHR.
STUHRJS
Genuine Caviare,
Anchovies in Brine
(SALTED SARDELS).
In Tins and Glasses.
Sold by all Hlgh-olaes Provision Dealers.
C. F. STUHR & CO., HAMBURG.
English Export Agent:
W. LOVEGROVE, LONDON. E.C.
VERY OLD COGNAC.
OTARD BRANDY
1875, 1860, 1848, 1820 VINTAGES.
A
WOMAN’S
LETTER
Sydney, March 3, 1913.
My Dear Arini. —
There has been a great commotion in
Australia’s biggest home-grown bank —the
“AVales.” A little of it was due to the fact
that general manager John Russell French
was having a 50th banking birthday. But
that didn’t mean changes—only congratula-
tions. The changes came through the loss
of two men at the top—lvey, the deputy
general manager, because he thought he was
too old to stay, and Denison Miller to take
charge of the Commonwealth Bank. Mr.
Ivey’s ytmrk has been cut up between Messrs.
Alford and Edwards, two N.S.W. inspectors;
and Harry Salmon has been brought over
from Dunedin to take Alford’s place in
southern N. S. AA r ales„. where the cows come
from. AA T ith him recently arrived in the
Warrimoo a wife and a brace of daughters
—all with a reputation as Bridge-players in
wet and sodden Dunedin. They leave be-
hind them a young male member of the clan
in the generally ornamental and occasionally
useful office of Judge’s Associate.
Our new Lady Mayoress, Mrs. Cocks, is a
woman with tons of energy. Just now in
the slack season when everybody else is
bending up all energies in the task of keep-
ing cool, Mrs. Cocks is composing a set of
variations on the word “only.” She says
she lias done nothing in February, only “get
up bazaars” (for which she did most of the
needlework). She is giving “only” three
parties before Easter, one a public reception,
one to say good-bye to Lady Chelmsford, and
one to welcome Lady Edeline Strickland.
The party for Lady Chelmsford —which Mr.
Layton frantically begged nobody to say a
word about beforehand, but it’s all over the
town by now—is fixed for Friday. It is
quite a private affair, only 300 guests having
been invited.
Mrs. Scott will arrive in Sydney to-
morrow by the Aorangi. The lost explorer’s
widow will not be altogether without rela-
tives here, and some people expect that she
will stay a while. A sister of Mrs. Scott
is Mrs. Zoe Newham, of Brisbane, who has
a local name as a writer. And the Gover-
nor-designate of Tasmania is married to
her sister-in-law.
Mr. and Mrs. Fitzwilliam AVentworth, of
Vaucluse, leave for England on the 12th inst.
Mr. AVentworth is the eldest son of AY. C.
AVentworth, father of our State Constitution,
and the grandson of D’Arcy AVentworth,
whose name crops up every few furlongs in
the early-day history of Sydney. Mr. Fitz-
william AVentworth is in his 80th year; he
married, in 1868, Mary Jane Hill, a niece of
the wife of the first Conner baronet. The
present Cooper lady, who is returning to
Sydney, is a sister of Mrs. Fitzwilliam AVent-
worth.
An interesting event of last week was the
centenary of the Benevolent Society of
N.S.W. At the annual meeting the Gov. and
Lady Chelmsford presided, and a festive ap-
pearance was given to the building in
Thomas-street by flags and greenery. The
premises of the society, part of which is now
used as the Renwick Hospital for Infants,
are a well set up group of buildings, but as a
quiet, peaceful spot for a hospital they leave
much to be desired. Pigs, vegetables, fowls
and other products are sold in the adjacent
markets. Trains rattle by, and smells of an
unholy blend are wafted upwards on the
dusty breeze. But the authorities want a
central place for the babies, so that the
mothers will have less excuse for not coming
to see them. The doctor and nurses in charge
of these little derelicts strive their utmost to
get the mothers to keep the baby and nurse it
herself. In most cases it is the only chance
the infant has of life. Many of the mothers
are at service, and must let the child go.
They tell a story of one of these babies whose
mother was in service in a godly household with
a reverend at its head. The hospital people
sent her word that she could have the babv
with her, as they had cured it of its little
ailment. But “Master” objected. He couldn’t
have the wailings of an infant disturb him
when he was meditating or writing his ser-
mons. Lady Chelmsford went the round of
the cots on AVednesday, and had a word of
praise for the extreme cleanliness and com-
fort that prevails.
The death is reported from Michelago of
the widow of Alexander Ryrie, who in his
day was a pure merino and M.L.C. She was
Charlotte, eldest daughter of Captain Alured
Tasker Faunce, of the 4th King’s Own Regi-
ment. which was stationed in N. S. AVales in
the ’3o’s. The first of the Ryries came to
Sydney in 1825 as Deputy Commissary Gen-
eral. He had been with Picton at AVaterloo.
His first wife was a sister of Major-General
Stewart, who was Acting-Governor of N. S.
AVales in 1825.
Among the faces of the new peeresses
which more or less adorn the illustrated
papers to hand since the last batch of handles
was tacked on to the commonplace names of
various notables, is the visage of Lady
Sydenham, whose husband was, until
last month, Sir George Sydenham
Clarke, formerly State Gov. of Victoria. The
new peeress used to live in Sydney. She was
a Miss Morant. Her first husband was Cap-
tain Arthur Reynolds.
The Sam Horderns, since their arrival in
Sydney after their trip to Europe with their
small family, are busy getting ready to flit
into their splendid new house at Darling
Point, for the decoration of which —consist-
ing of nearly 100 rooms—they have brought
a whole shipload of magnificence with them.
Mr. and Mrs. Sam Hordern gave a dinner
party on Friday in honor of their new sister-
in-law, Mrs. Lebby, formerly Olga Monie. It
was a family affair, and the acquaintance of
the bride was made by the host and hostess.
The Lebby Horderns were intending to go
to Europe soon, but Mr. and Mrs. Tony are
on the wing, so the newest wedded pair can’t
go, because, under the terms of old Sam Hor-
derns’ will, two brothers must be in Aus-
tralia at the same time. Mrs. Hordern,
senior, is on her way to Australia. The head
of the Hordern family is a good Australian.
He declared recently to a friend that nothing
on earth would induce him to live out of his
own country.
Talking of the high-and-dry Society of
Great Britain, the same authority remarked
that there is nothing underhand or back-
stairs about the selling of position and in-
fluence that is one of the features of this
century. It is purely a business proposition.
A peer, or such, rather down on his luck,
will state his terms for taking a wealthy
person, from furrin parts (Australia is “fur-
rin”) into the holy of holies in the world of
titles. They may compete against each
other. The highest or any tender not neces-
sarily accepted. Most Australians, if they
have not acquired the habit of giving at the
knees in the presence of the mighty, turn
the whole thing down and prefer to travel
strictly on their merits. The other kind of
tlimg is so dirt cheap nowadays.
The Foy family is on the wing. “Sonny,”
his wife aDd other belongings will be off this
month to the land where the sun sits on the
fence all day long and the crows jabber in
Irish. A daughter, now in her preliminary
stages of Convent life, will be taking the
black veil, and to that rather shuddersome
ceremony her family will wend its way.
Mrs. H. H. Osborne, a very pretty bride
of last Easter, has qualified for the baby
bonus, so her bright-faced mother, the youth-
ful-looking Signora de Beaupuis, is preparing
to hear her friends saying “Fancy vou a
grandmother!” without looking too bored
at the oft-repeated compliment. But, hon-
estly, she doesn’t look the part. Mrs. de
Beaupuis has been spending her time between
two hospitals, the one in which are Mrs.
Osborne and infant son, and the other in
which is de Beaupuis himself. The signor,
who is now reported better, has been suffering
from heart trouble. He had been holidaying
in Maoriland, and kept on working at musi-
cal composition instead of merely enjoving
the scenery as a well-conducted tourist
should.
The Cooper estate is getting it in the neck
over the Federal absentee tax. The family
decided to sell Bellevue Hill. Very choice
bits went off by auction a short time ago,
and some of these didn’t fetch such astound-
ing prices either. In order to escape some
of the payments demanded by the tax, the
Coopers are coming to coop here as long as
they can stand it. They have taken Fiona,
Double Bay, renting it from the Misses
Knox, who are going to travel about for
quite a little while.
Mrs. Ifould, our new public librarian,
lends out books to all and sundry, as no doubt
you know. AVhere then, asks the carper, does
the usefulness of the Bush Book Club com"
in? Well, it is like this: Nobody can have
too many books, and the more ways there are
of sending books and magazines into the
backblocks. the better for the inhabitants
thereof. The Bush Book Club had a meeting
at the Town Hall on Friday morning, with
Mrs. Cocks in the chair, and it was
resolved that the best way of holding
the good work together was to have a bail,
which will be pretty soon.
Two well-known Sydney matrons, Mrs.
Finlayson (who used to be Miss Dorothy
Russell French), and Mrs. Lightolles (Miss
MacCallum), are now eligible to claim £5
each from a grateful Treasury. Mrs. Light-
olles found her little daughter on the summit
of Mt. AVilson. Mrs. Finlayson’s baby is also
a girl.
There was a party at the Queen Victoria
Club on Thursday, to welcome Mr. and Mrs.
Joe Cook. Mrs. Waugh, acting president,
received the guests, also Mrs. Charles
Walker, vice-president, and Mrs. Bogue Luff-
man, organising secretary.. Mrs. Waugh, a
smart, white-haired, but fairly youthful-look-
ing dame, is a leading light of her league at
Parramatta. She is a cousin of the late
C. C. Kingston, of South Australia. Mrs.
Charles Walker is sister-in-law of Arthur
Adams.
Miss Minnie Lyall. whose engagement to
Mr. Leslie James Hempton is announced,
i« a well-dowered maiden, the daughter of
the late David Lyall, of Charters Towers.
For some time Mr. Lyall’s widow and
daughter have been living at MsAlv. where
Miss Lyall came of age last week.
Mav 28 and the three days thereabouts
have been chosen for the dates of the cele-
bration of the Blue Mountains Crossins:
Centenary. Bonfires are to be lighted at in-
tervals from Emu Plains to Bathurst. The
places named after the three pioneers, Blax-
land, Wentworth and Lawson, will be speci-
ally decorated. Katoomba contributes a
rifle match and illuminations; Blackheath a
concert with illuminations. At the Hydro
at Medlow there will be a big ball- The cere-
mony itself will take place at Mount York.
Girls are taking to all sorts of things to
make a living nowadays. It was reported
recently that Miss G. Leigh, of Supphiretown
(Queensland), has been appointed gem-buyer
on the sapphire fields for Messrs. Hoffman, of
Melbourne. There are two other women
buyers of gems on the fields already. The
secretary of the N.S.AV. Sawmillers’ Associa-
tion is Miss Florrie Ellis, who has held the
post for seven years. Miss Ellis is going off
on a holiday for some time with Mr. and
Mrs. Walter Way.
Just now our dancing teachers and our
musicians are puzzling over the tough problem
that is facing them in the coming by-and-by.
The old dances and the old tunes are quite
“out.” The true inwardness of that “out”
should be expressed by rights in large capi-
tals. It is a sad fact that waltzes and polka-*
no longer tempt the feet of society dancers.
The “Boston” is absolutely “It” in all well-
conducted b ol lrooms. Then there are the
one-step, the “Turkey Trot” and the “Bunny
Hug.” Some ill-informed people declare these
weird steps are not the thing. But they are
the literal caper, and nothing else. In the
winter balls in London, don’t you know,
nobody danced anything but the above. Even
the Gaby Glide is introduced as a ballroom
dance. The music is rag-time, and hard to
whistle. Jessie Lonnen does the Gaby glid n
in “The Sunshine Girl,” but isn’t the tune
just the ugliest ever?
Artist Hoyte, whose death was recorded
last week, had two daughters, one of whom
was the wife of the late Frank Myers, one of
the most brilliant of Australian journalists.
Dr. Taylor Young, an enthusiastic first-
nighter and a Macquarie-street physician, is
going off to England this month, taking Mrs.
Taylor Young along with him.
There was a wedding in Showland re-
cently, when Geraldine Fitzgerald (only
daughter of the late Dan Fitzgerald, of the
Circus), was married to Arnold Eugene
Maas, brother of Edward Maas, of the
Tivoli. Father Sherin tied the knot at St.
Mary’s, and afterwards there was health-
drinking and wedding-cake at Cauonbury,
Darling Point, where Mr. and Mrs. Edward
Maas held a reception. (Mrs. Ted Maas
was Madge Rickards, elder daughter of
Harry.) Mrs. Harry Rickards, Miss Flo.
Young, Mr. and Mrs. Harrie Skinner,
“Mo” Emanuel, Mr. and Mrs. Hudee
Mclntosh, the Frank Grieves, Claire Ro-
maine and hubby, and Mr. and Mrs. Will
Poluski were some of the show people pre-
sent. The newly-weds went to the Pacific
Hotel at Manly, and afterwards to Mel-
bourne and Hobart. Both Edward and
Eugene Maas were formerly officers in the
P. and O. Co.’s service.
From London Daily Mail (4/11/T3) :
A BARGAIN. Oil paintings by Hogarth, Hoppner,
Cuyp, Cax, Guardi; pen and ink drawings by
Phil May, Geo. Dalziell, Cruickshank, N. Lind-
say and Hop.; will sell cheap. Mrs. Cannon, 65
Western-road, Hove.
A poor economist, presumably, but she is a
sound judge of pictures.
From Bath (England) comes an account
of the celebrations of our anniversary day,
when the Mayor and Corporation of that
ancient city added their tribute to the
memory of Admiral Phillip, the first Gov-
ernor of N.S.W., by placing on his mural
tablet a chaplet of wattle blossom. Governor
Phillip lived for the last years of his life in
the house at Bath, which is now distin-
guished by a bronze tablet. He is buried
in the picturesque little suburb of Bathamp-
ton, just outside the city. The chaplet of
wattle was tied with a blue ribbon showing
the Southern Cross (minus one star).
The Bath florist might easily be excused
for not knowing how many stars are in the
Southern Cross, or in the Commonwealth
flag, our national standard; but mistakes
about our own country are so exasperatmgly
common that it is a kind of relief to be
nasty about them when they come under our
ken. In a recent Lady’s Realm, which, sets
out to be a well-informed magazine publish-
ing stories by Wells and other big wigs—
there is a tale called “The He-Suffragette,”
the plot of which is laid in Sydney at the
time when womanhood suffr"- a was under
discussion. The hero, who lives in a house
overlooking “Lady MacQuarrie’s Chair and
the incomparable Bay,” is in favor of “Votes
for AVomen,” because of his best girl, wb«
lives in a house with a beautiful garden full
of “glorious geraniums,” situated in “Bays-
water.” But she refuses his hand and large
fortune because, although a “Suffragette”
herself, she despises Percy (the lover afore-
said) on account of his nickname, “the he-
suffragette,” given him by his companions of
the Sydney Rowing Club. In the liberal
daubing of local color which the writer ap-
plies, this paper receives a gratuitous ad.,
as the hero’s brother at a critical moment
was “reading The Sydney Bulletin,” but
even then, she (the writer is Mrs. G. C.
Miln), failed to get the name right. After
the sad parting of the lovers, the quiet hush
of night sinks down on “Sydney Bay.’ Mrs.
Miln doesn’t seem to remember much about
Sydney.
“Bibs’ are quite the latest thing in tip t
wear for grown-ups. A jabot of cream jAT
lace, with a binding of black satin amf Ce
little black satin tab at the front ’is ° a
considered an indispensable finish to a frrt
but a washable “bib” is even more S on»u
after, as more serviceable. The piece t
lace is 9in. square, and gathered at the tn
Any girl can make one of these bibs ami
her taste and fancy would dictate »X!
pretty variations on the theme. y
“Coon Can” is the latest card game It-
bound to reach us very shortly if
already a craze by the time this meets von.
attentive eye. Much more lively than eithe
whist or bridge, Coon Can has caught on
like a Bathurst burr wherever it has been
introduced. I have the rules, but woulrt
never dream of boring j„u by publishing
them here. It is a round game, six players
can wrestle with it at once, and lose as
much money on it : s on bridge.
A big budget of music just sent bv the
publishers includes “The Australian Cadets’’
a song and march in honor of the boys in
brown. It is nicely rhythmical, and the
sentiment is full of patriotism and “duty’s
high command” and “fight to keep Australia
white,” which is all right. The composer i s
Robt. P. Thomson. From the same firm
(Paling’s) come several songs all of the
requisite shortness. The fashionable draw-
ing-room ballad must not be long. It need
not be coherent or melodious, but it must be
quick, the drawing-room victim now prefer-
ring sudden death to lingering agony,
Song of Triumph,” by F. Anderson", and
“Uncertainty,” and “Look to the Rose,” by
Kathleen Boydell, may be recommended as
smart, effective ballads for present day use.
De Beaupuis has used his editorial blue
pencil on a waltz by Emil Liebling. “Flor-
ence,” a “grande valse brillante de concert,”
does not discredit its parentage. It looks
rather difficult. I should prefer, myself, to
play it from a music roll, with my feet.
“Norwegian Reverie.” bv Marcelle Christian,
and Part I. of Karl Jensen’s violin system,
which seeks to lessen the worries of the
beginner at the violin, are also to hand.
Chappell and Co., Ltd., send two song
albums, vol. 11. of both Guy d’Hardelot’s and
Herman Lohr’s. They may be of great use
to the soprano or baritone seeking titbits for
encores. “In 1822” is a fetching effort in
the former collection, while “The Little Gal-
way Cloak” and “A Song of Surrey” are two
fine man’s songs by Lohr. “I Love the
Moon,” by Paid Rubens; “White Laures-
tine,” by Emmeline Brook; “God Make thee
Mine,” by Faydn Wood ; “Morning,” by Liza
Lehmann: “Love’s Words.” by d’Hardelot;
and “Hwang-Ho,” one of Margaret Cooper’s
songs, by Phillip Braham. also in a slow time
valse; “L’Amour Defender,” by H. J. Van
Prang, make up a fascinating bundle of
melodiousness.
A very jolly juvenile party would have
been wrecked by the gas strike on Saturday,
only for the kindness of the next-door lady,
who cave the use of her kitchen stove to
boil the kettle and any other things required
for the children’s feast. The guests played
about on the lawn till it grew too dark to see
each other’s sash bows, and then they all
went home to candles and early bed. Church
bells rang in the late afternoon, and congre-
gations filed in, two hours in advance of
usual time. At night black darkness settled
down amid a stillness that was quite weird.
This, of course, was in the outside suburbs
that are lit by gas. The stars were grate-
fully observed by hundreds of folk who never
see them at ordinary times. Stargazing as a
pastime was about the most popular pr-
of whiling away the evening. Men were so
hard put to it, that they took tramjourneys
in order to read, and, as only the eagie-
eved can see by tram-light, you mayJ#
of the desperate plight to which the Ma
State metropolis was reduced.
This letter is going to press in the thick
of industrial trouble. When the gas is flaring
merrily again (if ever it does), perhaps we
shall be able to find some fun in talking over
the makeshifts of “Starvation Sunday, but
it’s too near for us to see anything but
dreadful discomfort in it, at present. What
sort of a stove have you?” is absolutely m
burning question of the day, and if the st
does burn, then its possessor is looked up to
with respect by all the neighbors, home
butchers nobly came to the rescue by deli
ing the meat already cooked to those unior
tunate householders who only kee PjM
stove, but in many suburbs backyard cooKe
are improvised out of three bricks and .
pair of tongs. What rubs in the difficulty
the fact that this is summer, when firejjoa
is a negligible quantity in our homes.;
less folk are burning up their fa™*?®
desperation. Old chairs and P ac j n
dressing tables come in very ha ? d ?' ates
some houses, so great is the nead ’. m an d
are tearing down their back premises,
combusting them regardless of the p
present, and the future. A friend ofj^
managed to cook some kind of o id
six verandah railings and halt , one
summer house. (The arbor woul t h at
further but she discovered to her dismay
the lattice was iron painted to look UK
as Bismarck said, only he said it
way about.) ,
Yours affectionately,
CLEO.


*H s !l°d >°og &</£
99
m
aas
S®»«3P sM»?3Sfa3Ki*
~1
V ■*■
>
W
;• '
...
‘TT*
•■V
{?-., '• ... /?
HI
xVFS
a
:,V.
iW
a
fefSjstejWji
’ v- '
' ’
yZ 32
r •>
A' v
v --:a
&-&SS
WMM
ass?
mw
Wm&Hma
W:
--.
' /yw
S ■•' if:v v
WW
LIX\
rxx:
r„- V \ *
■ y-'
y-
a®
«\
sdHi
m
SOT
,y'-- ■■
■'V-
mmssrnmssssßSA
a»s-f
B»£|SosnM3c££
■;t ■ ■■•
ScKfc+H®
;■ -
*>
Sssfe*
Jr
as*
Ssa
ss.
eSfSH
wMM
%rjzs*c£
Ya
mm
w///,
W'/'/
.-■; •
*
*s
r ". s
av;
‘5/
:•. ■/
sssse
A
«
53
dUff
m
■■ft
i?Ti& ,r
v
is 9
v/.,
/ -1 >.
7
I
i. ,- 5.\iV.KyV 4 OK./, ,w f-»'<£ &:.***'*»
fsi
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
is a champion
With the cce
When a big break
He is making,
HiS slim hand is
Never shaking.
But his cue —
Of which he’s fond
Seems a long
Magician’s wand.
As the red flies
Like a rocket
Straight into the
Waiting pocket.
Someone murmurs
In the hall.
“‘COBRA’ scores
Above them all!”


For Military Men.
FARMER’S MILITARY COSSACKS,
fsd
25/- Pair.
With the various Military encampments now approaching, the
necessity for smart, serviceable footwear becomes apparent.
For all Military purposes we thoroughly recommend the Military
Cossack shown in the illustration. It is made in Derby style,
without toecaps, from superior quality Black, and also Tan, Calf,
and is leather lined throughout. For complete comfort, smart
appearance, and long service, it is the ideal Military Boot par
excellence. In sizes for all.
Price, 25/- Pair.
Men’s Boot Section, Market Street Entrance.
Carriage Paid to any part of Australia.
FARMER’S SYDNEY.
A non t B. 27/2/ 13 c —Talking of tlie loss of water
by evaporation from outback tanks and dams—the
leaks that spring in the farmer’s sources of income
just about hit the limit. What with bush fires,
ticks and diseases of stock, and what not, the man
on the land is always on the lose. But the leak
that provokes more miles of “cuss” is that caused
by defective BAGS. Smith’s sacks, whether for
wheat, chaff, corn or any other purpose, are abso-
lutely reliable, and Smith’s prices hit the bottom of
the market all the time. Write for prices. T.
Smith and Co., Ltd., Sussex Street, Sydney.*
Wringer
Rollers
Re~
Rubbered
From
3 eac/i
y s
' i
I
...THE...
Dunlop Rubber Co.
make a speciality of this
Repair Work, and guaran-
tee their Roller Rubbers to
give better results than the
original ones.
REPAIRS EXECUTED
WITHOUT DELAY.
M Jt M M
PRICES RANGE from 51- ea.
AND UPWARDS, ACCORDING TO SIZE
LIST ON APPLICATION.
PjriKmfifflt
PUNLOP
RUBBER
CO.
I MELBOURNE
SYDNEY
ADELAIDE
PERTH
BRISBANE
WELLINGTON
CHRISTCHURCH
DUNLOP
MOTOR
TYRES
y/m
y -\SSy._vc
K_
'DUNLOPS'
FOR
DURABILITY
OUTWEAR.....
ALL OTHERS
It’s the Quality of Rubber and Fabric
that accounts for the big mileage
that “Dunlops” give. Thousands of
motorists in this country will aoW
use nothing else. Try them and
test the mileage!
LIST ON APPLICATION
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, ADELAIDE,
BRISBANE, WELLINGTON, CHRISTCHUWLr.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, March 3, 1913.
My Dear Yarrie, —
All things come to her who waits, and even
summer gowns have had their chance at last.
It was hard that Newmarket Day should
really have been cool enough for autumn
raiment; nevertheless, the start of the V.R.C.
Autumn Meeting, on Saturday, brought out
some smart striped velvet gowns, a few ex-
cellent things in poplins, scores of triumphs
in combined velvet and satin in fuchsia
colors, and advanced models of the already
familiar Richelieu coats. The Fuller lady
sported a ninon gown in the shade of a blue
hydrangea, and a wide-brimmed hat of the
diaphanous order.
Federal Government House has acquired
two new lodgers in Mr. and Mrs. Arden
Franldyn, who are here on a six-weeks’ visit.
The lady, who possesses nice looks and smart
attire, is a sister of Secretary Wilberforce,
of the Fuller staff, and an old friend of the
Denman lady. The visiting pair will jour-
ney home to their native Hampshire via
China and Japan, arriving in England just
in time to follow next season’s fox. Hunting
that smellful little animal is the favorite
pastime.
Melbourne is positively seething with At
Homes and teas organised by the social
climbers, with the object of gathering funds
for the coming charity bazaars. Th
Mayoress’s stall is being built up by bridge
parties, linen teas and musical outbreaks,
where everybody is a little bit more im-
portant than the last duchess you ran into.
Mayoress Hennessy sits back, and occasion-
ally indulges in a weary presiding smirk; but
she seems to get little joy out of the scramble
of the almost-arrived dames for precedence
and other inedible substances. Anyhow, the
Homoeopathic and Women’s Hospitals will
reap the benefit of it all at Easter, and it
only means that a few more suburban peer-
esses will hate one another. Where so many
already hate, a few more don’t matter.
On Friday last, the Denman lady, attrac-
tively upholstered in blue, slid back the doors
of the new Lost Doggery. On the instant, a
large white stray, which had been carefully
secured beforehand, dragged a very small boy
over the threshold. The youth was to have
led the animal; but the four-legged pauper
was too eager to get in. The complimentary
presentation to her Ex. consisted of a silver
dog paperweight. Mrs. Chads, the original
mover in the scheme, was motored over from
Camberwell by order of the committee, and
occupied a seat of honor. There was an
immense attendant crowd of the Very Best
dogdovers. Some of them brought dogs and
children; others just brought dogs.
An afternoon-tea and bunning in sultry
weather mostly struggles along in a dull,
mechanical fashion; but the first social ven-
ture of Eunice Russell Chia was not that
sort of function at all. Of course, it had a
special social interest. The large reception-
room at Sandringham House, tricked out in
pink and blue, matched the blue-garbed hos-
tess nicely. She wore her “so delighted” ex-
pression full on, and was eagerly seconded
by mamma Mrs. Russell in the background.
The Warrawee Club, an institution which
is struggling bravely to fill the void left by
the defunct Swastika, threw open its doors
last week, and entertained little Lizzie New-
bold. A swarm of members listened to song
and story, whilst juggling with refreshments.
President Mrs. Staughton hurried down from
Gisborne, and shook an expensively plumed
head over the occasion, while Mrs. Secretary
Phillips stood by reverently. A solid splash
of blue indicated Mrs. Id. J. Rickerton,
while a granny bonnet located Mrs. Noall,
whose head covering made a startling con-
trast to the wide-spreading lids of the other
women. Girls abounded. This club bids for
young folk who yearn for culture, and sub-
scriptions are pouring in so fast that already
its eyes are fixed on more imposing Collins-
street premises.
Mrs. Robert Simson, who has just col-
lected a son and daughter from England,
where culture-polish is supplied by the gal-
lon, celebrated the event by “bringing them
out” at a dance in St. Kilda Town Hall,
which was expensively decorated with pink
and white roses. Despite sultry conditions,
all Toorak heroically motored along to the
revel. The hostess, a magnificent spectacle
in melon pink and gold, stood handy to
daughter Margot, who was coolly frocked in
white. The Federal Government House con-
tingent, shepherded by Chamberlain Nevill,
was made up of the Barttelot pair, Mrs.
Arden Franklyn, and Help Burnham. Secre-
tary Wilberforce represented the State
House. Norman Brookes and his wife (the
latter furnished in white) were right in the
thick of the two-stepping. Mrs. Norman
Armytage chaperoned daughter Edna and
Aileen Bell, who has quite recovered from
her appendicitis, and is booked back to the
Toowoomba station in May. Mrs. Nash
came down from Oranbourne with a pink
daughter, and the Werribee Chirnsides (like
the refreshments) helped to swell the crowd.
In the younger section, Greta Laidlaw, from
the Hamilton district, was easily first.
Mrs. Norman Brookes gave a farewell tea
to old-friend Jessie Landale Murray, who is
taking off husband Ronald and their small
son for a European wander. The Brookes
couple these days dwell at Waverdon, the
cosy South Yarra home of Charles Emmer-
ton. The place, which has been loaned
to them during uncle’s absence in
foreign parts, possesses a fine library
filled with classic tomes. This apart-
ment was used for the tea, and pink
bella-donna lilies mingled with the brown-
backed volumes for the frivolous occasion.
Mrs. Norman, in trails of black and white
chiffon, cleverly shaded with Brussels lace,
had little daughter Cynthia on view in her
best bib and tucker. Mamma Emmerton was
in close attendance. Alex. Landale’s widow
attended in black robes, with the respective
wives of sons Hunter and George. The Bart-
telot lady smiled upon the gay librarians,
likewise the Henry Wrixon dame, Mrs. Sam
Staughton, Mrs. Albert Miller, and the rest
of the local peerage.
Douglas Mawson, leader of the Australian
scientific expedition in Antarctica, is having
a long, cold courtship. The “wireless” which
told of the death of two members of his
party, but went into no details about it,
mentioned also that Mawson and perhaps
half a dozen others had been unable to take
the relief ship northwards, and would have
to spend another winter ir> the. ice. It must
have been cold news for the girl he left be-
hind him—one of the daughters of G. D.
Delprat, the man who engineered the iron
and steel business at Newcastle on behalf of
the big Broken Hill Co.
Lily Morris and Charles Lazarus recently
succeeded in getting themselves made one;
but the wedding suffered so many interrup-
tions that an elderly relative wept bitterly
over the feast as she counted the ill omens.
A puncture to the bride’s motor-car was
the first trouble. The second disaster was
caused through the waiting bridegroom
secreting the ring in some unlikely pocket,
and having to conduct a frenzied search
while the party looked on. After smashing
the required crockery, the newly-wedded
pair hurried away without signing the bond,
and the distracted rabbi had to send his
assistant after them. The ill-luck seemed to
peter out after that; but the elderly rela-
tive refuses to take a cheerful view of the
matter. Omens go for a lot in Jewish wed-
dings. . .
A March bride who is promised to a Col-
lins-street fangsmith will not go poorly
dressed to her new surroundings. Pa has
risen to the occasion like a well-inflated bal-
loon, and his girl is hard at work spending
a cheque for £BOO on trousseau chiffons, in
these times, when Fashion changes with the
rapidity of an electric sign, spending that
amount of money on clothes looks rather
like buying a vanload of bread for one per-
son.
Among this month’s marryings is that of
Dr. J. Ira Morris, of San Francisco, with
Stella, the plump daughter of “Joe” Perl,
of St. Kilda. The bridegroom is understood
to be considerably dollared, and papa Perl
is alleged to have enough of the needful to
bless the union with a ponderous leaf from
his cheque book. Anyhow, he has com-
mended a full ceremony at the Bourke-street
Synagogue, and has hired the Masonic Hall
for the subsequent feeding, with champagne
trimmings. Also, he is said to have shed so
much cash for the bridal finery that all
female Melbourne speaks of the bill with
reverence.
Professor Josephine Cilder, from Minne-
sota University, U.S.A., is busily grubbing
about this State after native vegetable mat-
ter. Josephine has mommer along to take
care of her, and is in such a feverish hurry
to get through with her quest that tea riots
have no attractions whatever. Still, under
her learned exterior, there lurks, the womanly
hankering for simple domestic pleasures.
The spirit of professional enthusiasm evi-
dently burns brightly in her spare frame.
A wise Mitchell baby recently arrived on
David Mitchell’s 75th birthday. It is
the child of Frank Mitchell, who became
enamored of father David’s trained nurse
and married her. The hardy old gentleman
mourned the loss of his favorite attendant,
but all has long been forgiven. The baby
has been christened David, and spends half
its waking time on his delighted grandad’s
knee. Aunt Melba sent little Dave a trous-
seau worthy of a prince, and the outlook
for the youngster is of a golden hue.
Betty Paterson, the youngest daughter of
artist Hugh Paterson, has won a singing
scholarship at the Marshall Hall Conserva-
torium. The young woman also plays the
violin with more than ordinary skill, but
her fine voice puts the second talent in the
shade.
Colonel Harold Grimwade trips to Eng-
land aboard the Otranto this month. Whilst
in the Cold Country he may go into camp
for a military course, being somewhat of a
glutton for soldiering and a fervent admirer
of the Commonwealth’s compulsory service
system.
The artistic world which counts Mr.
Laurie Abrahams, of South Yarfa, among
its best friends and brothers will be glad to
hear that he has just returned from his
health trip, looking ever so much the better
for it. Some months ago Hattenbach, the
’cellist, persuaded friend Abrahams to go to
Germany with him; and Hattenbach’s Teu-
tonic frivolity, the long voyage, and the Ger-
man Spas have done wonders for the
health-seeker.
When Oscar Asche stepped into the box
to give evidence in the Meyer-Dorothy Grim-
ston case he seemed to suffer from stage
fright or something equally uncanny. The
muttered remarks of the owner of the voice
that boomed through Cyprus were scarcely
a udible, and he had to be requested to “speak
up.”
Dr. Arthur- Brebner, who wrote “Patches
and Pomander” and is now inspecting Vic-
toria at close quarter, drops a line from
Ballarat to say that I did him too much
honor when the other week I put in for him
a claim to acquaintanceship with “numer-
ous Royal foreigners, including Kara-
georgevitch,” of Servia. “My knowledge
of Royalties,” he says nicely, “is
limited to seeing them on civic occasions
from the top of a ’bus ; and,” he adds nastily,
“my knowledge of Australians is, I am
happy to say, even less.”
Mrs. Fred Knight, daughter of the late
wealthy Riverina squatter Faulkner, is leav-
ing shortly to show her daughters how to
foreign-travel. The lady has been on the
sick list for years, but has managed to get
off it at last.
Curly-haired Margaret Lewis James, who
was the soloist of the Women’s Choir two
years ago, but left these shores on the advice
of Melba for further study, writes of foreign
successes. At time of reporting, the clever
little lady was singing leading parts in
opera in Venice. With a fine voice, the
command of several languages, and the work-
ing capacity of a colony of beavers, the Aus-
tralian girl (who, by the way, is half
French) really deserves her limelight. For
a time she was on the teaching staff of the
Presbyterian Ladies’ College, which was also
Melba’s old academy. Away from the foot-
lights, her name is Margharita Valdi.
Mrs. Love, news of whose death in London
was cabled last week, intended returning
with her two girls by the Osterley. The
family resides for the most part in Towns-
ville, where Love, sen., does good business
in shipping horses to India. Daughter Olive’s
wedding with squatter Robinson, of Banana-
land, had been fixed to take place in Syd-
ney immediately after the arrival of the
voyagers.
Annie Sadlier, after quietly dawdling
through parts of the Commonwealth, lias
crossed to Maoriland prior to returning to
her Tipperary home via Canada. A titled
gent who has a weakness for assisting de-
crepit religious institutions in Ireland, is a
near relative, as is also our imported naval
instructor Ryan, husband of the lady who is
understood to be dimly related to the Den-
man family.
From “Rosna,” in London, where the fogs
are:—
So many Australians flew to their country’s birth-
day party on January 27 that the Colonial Institute
was crowded out of house and home. They filled
rooms, corridors, stairs and lower hall, and won-
dered what was happening aloft. Everybody wore a
feathery spray of wattle, or, as the Briton persists
in calling it, mimosa. The rooms and tea tables were
also wattle-decked, and High Commissioner Reid,
who made the one speech of the revel, was framed
in tall jars of it. The speech was brief but full of
thrilling pieces of information about Australia Felix.
Outside, too, wattle was on that day the city’s most
conspicuous vegetable. The Australian offices and
banks were decked with it; “Australia’s Message”
hoarding in the Strand was wreathed with it; and
one big universal provider (Selfridge’s), running a
wattle day on its own account, swathed its florist
department in the Australian blossoms, and showed
Australian products in its windows. As most of the
dailies devoted at least a column and big head-lines
to the occasion, the Commonwealth scored an able-
bodied advertisement out of the anniversary revel.
The Society of Shakspeare holds its first
meeting of the year at the Austral Salon on
Friday. The faithful are exhorted to attend.
Office-bearers for 1913 will be elected, the
annual report and balance-sheet will be re-
cited in blank verse, and brothers Edward
Stevens and M. M. Phillips. M.A., are to
read papers on the “trend of Shakspearian
criticism” in two different centuries. A
violently exciting subject, to be sure.
Bernard Hall’s display at the Athenaeum
Hall will contain a lot of new work as well
as some of the pictures that figured in his
ill-timed show a vear or two back. The
private view is to-day (Thursday), and the
season will last until Wednesday, the 19th.
The committee of the Misses Hyams’ hops
have already arranged a new series of Cin-
derellas for the coming season. The kick-
off is to happen on May 8 at All Saints’
Hall, Windsor, where the ball was kept
rolling last winter.
An old doctor of bats, racquets and clubs
was caught in a confidential mood the other
day. This is the essence of his wisdom,
poured out while he attended to a bad frac-
ture in a golf stick : “The worst payers of all
are the golfers. I don’t know why it should
be so. Perhaps it is because golfers are
gentlemen—that is to say, men with nothing
to do. When a man idles most of his time,
there’s nothing much else you can call him
without giving offence. No. give me the lad
who plays cricket or tennis, and pays his
few shillings or pence directly you give him
back his bat or racquet.”
My Adelaide correspondent writes: —
Mrs. Dudley Hayward, who left for England by
the Marrhora, was farewelled for days prior to her
departure. She was lunched and tea-ed at the Queen
Adelaide Club by Miss Lea and Mrs. C. Hayward,
and spent a strenuous day saying farewells and
thank-yous for good wishes. Mrs. Dutton Green
sailed by the same boat, likewise Mrs. George
Brookman and her daughter, Mrs. Wilson, and Mr.
Gordon Ayers. The Sydney B. R. Wises braved a
day of vile heat in Adelaide, what time the Mar-
mora engulfed new passengers and luggage and mails.
Miss Grant Bruce, who goes from Melbourne to
London with a new book amongst her luggage,
passed through in the Beltana at the beginning of
the week. She bears a sheaf of letters to literary
notables, wherefore she should see much of the Inky
Way on the other side.
Acetylene has been responsible for a couple of
recent accidents. Dr. Burston’s gas apparatus burst
as he went to light his motor lamp, but he ,
with a shock and a certain amount of scorch n
Cowan, of Angaston, fared worse. Flood w t
moistened his carbide supplies and aters
and the explosion which met him when he J as ’
near with a lighted match was so severe as to ,v ent
him badly. For a time it was feared that his 5
would go, but recent reports are more hopeful o nf nt
trip to England, which he had already oknnl?
should set him right. Panned,
Miss Alicia Bosanquet has gone to Kancamn t„i ,
for three weeks. 8 lsland
Dr. Rupert Magarey was married on Tuesday W
Miss Elsie Cowell, at The Briars, Medindie
Alice Cowell and Miss Magarey wore brid’psm^a 8 -
frocks of pale blue, and Mrs. Cowell was in
smart dress of black and white. a
Apparently the last has not been heard of th
trouble which began at the September Show when
the R. A. and H. Society disqualified some shem
exhibited by the Canowie Pastoral Co. The co has
now issued a writ against the society, and as' the
society refuses to climb down, the squattocraey are
in a state of wild excitement.
Mr. Frank Toms, who died at Kapunda on Sunday
was a son of the late S. Toms, who made money bv
softgoods. All was sport that came in his way till
1907, when he settled down on the Koonunga estate
and became a keen experimental farmer. His widow
is a daughter of the late Police-Commissioner Peters-
wald.
Died on the same day, at Aldgate, F. Caley Smith a
floriculturist of note, and one of the popular Yalumba
clan. He was aged 48, and had been married for
only a couple of years.
Please unyoke Miss Wells and Mr. Guy Hardy— l
told you last week that the lady was going to
America for the marriage—and make the happy
partner Mr. Tom Hardy.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.


Continental
CAt\ E3EL
DEPEhPEP
-
SPEEP
L&M^-WEYjt?
DURtteiUTY
l
FlJk
A
m
V
/fc-yty.
mu
£ottTl MEHTA L
[t(i PbFPER&-
pry U*
ALL ■&■ n.z •


“GREAT SCOTT, IT’S HOT!”
LET US GET SOMETHING COOL and NICE.
FRANZ JOSEF FOR PREFERENCE.
YES!
FRANZ JOSEF LAGER BEER
EVERY TIME.
Martin’s Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. Ladies recommend
them. Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist. Southampton.*
Don’t give way before your task ; gather renew
energy and vitality from Stearns’ Wine of Cold Liver
Extract. Build up the broken-down tissues and nour
ish the tired nerves.*
%
MiMlsTa
Our large stock of the
latest Trusses for all
kinds of Hernia is a
real boon to sufferers.
Denyer’s Special Elastic
Truss, fitted to size,
ends all trouble, dis-
comfort and fear.
Call or Write.
Single 17/6, Double 22/6.
Others from 3/6.
DENYER BROS.,
Truss and Abdominal Belt Makers,
281 George St. (opp. Hunter St.), Sydney
POLITICAL
POINTS
A EAR-REACHING BLIGHT.
The British Board of Trade reports that the food-
purchasing power of the sovereign is now only equal
to 16s. 3d., as compared with 20s. in 1895. —London
news item.
ABSENTEE- AUSTRALIAN (anti-Sosh of course)
“That Protection again!”
“0.K.” writes: —
The Commonweath’s infant miitary system has
already served to point a moral for the opponents of
compulsory service in Britain. Touching the sug-
gestion that a compulsory force would be employed
to repress labor strikes the veteran “Bobs” remarks
that “if a Labor Government in Australia did not
fear this the wage-earners of Britain need not be
alarmed.” He might have added the argument that
whereas a voluntary army is something of a weapon
in the hands of Toryism, compulsory service would
make it more of an instrument of defence for. the
workers against tyrannical repression of labor risings.
Why, it was even thought advisable to disarm and
disband one or two companies of voluntary troops
at the time of the big strike a year ago. They were
suspected of an earnest desire to join the strikers.
“Hee Kee”; According to the statement
made by Johnson, W.A.’s Minister for
Works (B. 23/l/’l3), the purchase of
steamers by his Government in connection
with the Nor’-West cattle trade gave the
squattocracy such a severe short-arm jolt
that rigor mortis set in immediately. That
is what should have happened. What has
happened is different. About the first cargo
carried by the State was for Gooch, one of
our largest beef and mutton orchardists;
and, later, the modest firm of Connor, Do-
herty and Durack was accommodated by
Bill Johnson’s Department. Then one of
the vessels which was bought to cheapen
W.A.’s meat supply was headed for Maori-
land with a cargo of jarrah for Millar’s
struggling Combine, and now the good ship
has arrived back from the Eruptive Isles
with coal for the anaemic firm of Mcllwraith,
McEacharn and Co. Still, though I didn’t
quite see how this was going to reduce the
price of steak, I took Johnson’s word for it
that the deceased bullock was being retailed
for 2d. per lb. cheaper than hitherto; where-
fore I hurried home and accused Mrs. Hee
Kee of falsifying the domestic accounts. Her
replv to the accusation was lost in a crash
of ironmongery. I haven’t the slightest
doubt, however, that the smothered reply
contained an emphatic denial of Bill’s asser-
tion.
Even the Cold Country is turning dog on
its old fetich of Party Government. A re-
view just to hand puts it this way:—
Tt [Party Government] keeps out of employment a
great mass of precious ability. It puts into place
not the fittest, but the most eligible from the party
point of view-—that is, very often, the worst. Effi-
ciency implies the rule of the fittest; party means the
rule of something else—not the unfittest, but of the
fe»y fit, the accidentally not unfit, and the glaringly
unfit.
The author of this treason, the right-think-
ing people who want to be so-English will be
horrified to learn, is none other than Rose-
bery, earl, ex-Prime Minister, and bluest of
blue Britons.
The time seems to be about ripe for sup-
plying a new definition to the nasty word
“scab.” In Labor circles a “scab” used to
be the man who worked or made a pretence
of working when the official ukase was to
down tools ; and the stigma was more effec-
tive, in most than the prospect of
seven years’ gaol. But those were the days
when Labor’s official weapon was the strike.
Nowadays Labor itself, through its own
Governments, has declared the strike illegal,
and has officially adopted a new method of
getting justice; yet when gas-makers and
others kick over the traces, and tell Labor
Governments and Trades Halls to go to the
devil, no official so far has told them that
they are the new kind of “scab.” It is
about time somebody did it—assuming that
Labor is in earnest in officially adore'-'
arbitration as its weapon. And if it isn’t
in earnest, it had better drop the pretence
overboard.
“Briner” sums up our naval baby:—
There are 3837 senior Australian naval cadets.
Our actual navy has 1616 men, with 216 boys getting
ready on the Tingira, and 28 middies ready for the
temporary Naval College at Geelong. There has been
£7BOO spent on this college—on its classrooms, bar-
racks, recreation grounds, gymnasium and offices,
jetty extension, swimming baths and boatsheds. The
expenditure includes £2300 by the Geelong Harbor
Trust; the nation planked down the other £ 5500.
Meanwhile, work at the permanent college at Jervis
Bay proceeds under much difficulty. Until lately, the
only communication was by steamer, which had to
await suitable wind and weather. Between 300 and
400 men are now at work, including road-makers.
The navy’s recruit resources are Geelong College for
officers, Tingira for seamen, Williamstown Naval
Depot (the old ironclad Cerberus) for stokers and
seamen, and the Encounter for sea-going training.
The officers and men lent by the British navy num-
ber 139 ; and another 120 officers and men, formerly
of the British navy, have joined ours. In addition
to all the numbers mentioned, 900 men are needed for
the Australia, Sydney, Melbourne and the submarines.
The British navy will lend us what we want till we
can grow our own.
The beauty and chivalry of Australia —
one of each —went down a few days ago to
Yassberra. the godless capital that was born
of lies and treachery and meanness and State
Frights, to see a bounding politician with a
large hat drive a spike into the great wilder-
ness. And the Sydney Telegraph man
spoke sadly of the scene that opened out be-
fore him:—
The place has been without rain for a long period.
The past week’s downpour, though fairly general,
did not embrace Yass, and the country all round is
bare and dry, badly needing water to again galvan-
ise it into life. Hot nights, too, have been frequent,
and the dreariness of the surrounding landscape is,
to a considerable extent, reflected in the listlessness
of the inhabitants.
The Telegraph has no luck with its favorite
capital. It was that paper’s fishing expert
who, in a moment of beastly candor, de-
scribed the wonderful Cotter River as a
mere series of water-holes —dabs of moisture
with Sahara in between, so to speak.
SHE’S OFF.
Purblind, narrow-minded folk, incapable of looking
into the future, and too small-souled to give hospitality
to a great idea. — Melbourne Argus on the anti-superflu-
ous State Governor’s movements.
Gibraltar, according to Governor Sir
Archibald Hunter, is a state of corruption
founded on a rock. His Ex. likens the town
to an Augean stable.
“R. 8.” writes: —
If Andrew Fisher desires to stay in office, he
should muzzle O’Malley or cashier him. The action
of Hughes in appointing the impossible Piddington to
the High Court was about to begin to be forgotten
when the roaring futility from Canada turned up in
Sydney and talked of “a great scream and a grave-
yard howl and a wail from every shroud and sepul-
chre” and the Fusionists’ false teeth and the other
stock-in-trade of this quack of the market square.
Surely Australia is about tired of this windy ex-
peddler. He makes our country ridiculous abroad,
and raises false hopes in the minds of other political
bunco steerers who have exhausted the crop of fools in
their own land.
MeGOWEN'S NIGFITMARE.
Government House lies heavy on his dreams.
Uncle Samuel, being a territorially remote
Uncle, looked on quietly from New York
while the spitfire Balkan States made the
great but jealous Powers of Europe look
small and foolish by disregarding their hints,
warnings and curses, and continuing to prod
the Unspeakable towards the sea. But
Uncle’s time was coming. Directly Stand-
ard Oil Madero fell off in Mexico, the cable
gravely notified the world that “the Secre-
tary for State has announced that the Gov-
ernment will interfere with a view to secur-
ing a fair trial for ex-President Madero.”
The tremendous statement had just about
gone the cable rounds when the ex-President
was shot dead by his “rescue” party. Seems
hardly worth while being the mouthpiece of
a Great Power these days. The small,
scuffling people who should listen respect-
fully just go on fighting, and pay about as
much attention to Great Powers as they do
to Great Snakes.
Argus remark on the Warrenheip by-
election (Vic.), one of the candidates for
which is Mr. Ben Clark: —
Among those who are displaying keen interest in
the contest is Mr. Clark’s father, an old resident of
the district, who, despite the fact that he is over
80 years of age, is taking quite an active part in
the campaign. Mr. Clark makes no claims to the
higher flights of oratory. He has not Mr. Brennan’s
ability as a platform speaker, but he took 3000 bags
of barley off his farm at Dunnstown within the last
few l weeks.
This opens up interesting possibilities. We
may now expect something like the follow-
ing :
Vote for Mr. Sourgrass. He took first prize for
fat bullocks at the last show.
Give your vote to Mr. Meadow-fat. He drew the
biggest cheque at the butter-factory last month.
Mr. Browns-River is the man for the district. His
spuds went eight tons to the acre, and there was no
blight in them.
Still, it seems unfair of the Argus to aim at
getting two Houses of Fat.
When George Reid, years ago, started out
on his Socialistic Tiger hunt, we were told
it was the most momentous hunt in the his-
tory’ of Australia, and that if Reid came
back without the tiger it was a long good
night to Australian freedom, prosperity,
marriage tie and the right to wallop one’s
own kids. The whole social fabric would go
down crash. Last week Joe Cook went forth
to the wilderness of Paddington (Sydney)
and announced the opening of the Liberal
campaign against the Referenda. He said it
was a campaign the like of which, he be-
lieved, had never begun before. Then he
went on to solemnly warn the people that if
it failed they would have Unification for a
certainty. And there he stopped. What par-
ticular horrors hang round the dread brows
of Unification lie did not explain; presum-
ably not having the imagination to invent
them on the spot, or the time to read them
up before the meeting. Reid made his tiger
yarn a complete novel with a somewhat
lurid finish. Cook’s fish-tale, or snake-yarn,
just breaks off and fizzles out when the fire-
works should be let off. The average man
who has studied the subject sees in Unifica-
tion and Reconstruction the making of a self-
reliant nation free of the tyranny of Trusts,
Combines and a lot of other evils that flour-
ish under the regime of State Frights.
Cold Country magazine asked reDre
JSto
or f J nr lanks ca i cula f | ,'' “1™
the polls> / rhe Labor programme inEP
State Medical Service • tho r w ,
* *ee CHate meaicai aenuce the Liberal
mentions tne 1 uouc uwnersnip of Land and
the. Nationalisation of Railways and Canals-
while Sir William Bull, who drew up the
Conservative programme, hollers for Sfnto
g ubs i(]ies for Farmers. Every partv real'
ises that it: must have the dreadful Soeialis"
, premises and mill- ,•*/! ’
t ic cow on tne premises and milk it from
one teat or the other.
Th red-ragger is a curious freak. He
howls at the Defence Act, and says the
Australian worker would be a fool to defend
a country which does not belong to him, and
alleges that a Japanese invasion wouldn’t
matter, as the invaders would be workers,
and all workers are brothers with one com-
mon enemy, the Capitalist. Yet, as soon as
a small invasion does happen—an invasion
by a few shiploads of immigrants in cheap
tweed caps—the same red-ragger howls at
the top of his voice to the Labor party to
Stop It in the interests of the Australian
workman and his wages.
OUTGROWN.
Stand by the Constitution and do not agree to its
alteration until the absolute need for so doing has been
abundantly shown .—Departing message from o.A.
Premier Peake.
AUSTRALIA (who has outgrown his suit by
several years): " Heavens! How much
plainer do they want it?”
SHADOW OF ASIA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The E. and A. mail steamer Eastern arrived on
Monday from Japan and Hongkong via ports, and
was quarantined owing to a ease of smallpox having
occurred on board during the early part of the
voyage. —News item.
Far out of the beaten track she lies
Where great cliffs climb to the cloud-flecked
skies;
The yellow flag at the masthead flies.
The clean wind whistles —the white gulls float
Over the anchorage—snug, remote.
(“There’s smallpox there on that Chinese boat!’’)
The blue sea cradles her day by day;
The far waves silently burst in spray;
She lies a thing from the world away.
Her twinkling ports in the night are gold,
When seas are black, and when winds are cold.
On joyous decks is her story told.
And those who were laughing cease and peer
Through the sea darkness that holds the Fear.
Shadow of Asia is here —is here !
N.s.w.
E. FRANCIS.


The longer each Running Part
of an Automobile lasts the lower
is the Maintenance Expense.
lf the moving parts last for 50,000
miles they are eliminated from the
expense account for that length of
time.
If they last 25,000, not only bear-
ings, but the labor of replacing them,
must be paid for twice as often.
The economical car is the one
whose various moving parts are
lubricated by Gargoyle Mobiloils.
The most costly oils to produce, yet
the cheapest per year.
Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd.
Our
“Sovereign
Boot.
J
■ 1
\
1
20/-
Per Pair.
Add 1/- postage.
(Glazed Kid or Box Calf , Goloshed and Welted.) ,
IT'S STERLING VALUE.
Stylish to the moment, perfect in fitting and soundly constructed.
Remember—Leather is advancing, and it's going to be dearer still.
So there's wisdom in purchasing promptly, especially as
WE GUARANTEE EVERY PAIR.
Robert Hurst
Mail Order Department,
14 and 16 Russell Street,
MELBOURNE.
New Shipments of
The “Health,” “Lennox,” “Florsheim” & “ICrippendorf’s.”
Electrical Text Books.
Are you sure your knowledge is progressing
with the times 7 If not, be inquisitive, and
call or write us now.
DOUBLE POSTAGE KATES TO NEW ZEALAND.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.
476 George Street, Sydney
(OPPOSITE QUEEN
VICTORIA MARKETS).
.3
0*
%
fa
Held in
a Girl’s
Hand!
Pathe’s Home
Cinematograph
everything necessary, excepting only the screen, is
IN THE MACHINE AS THE GIRL IS HOLDING IT.
Pathe’s Home Cinematograph
Makes its own light. Fig. 16 is a small magneto. As the handle that projects
the picture is turned, sufficient light is produced in the magneto to throw a
the Picture 1 distin ctness on the screen. Anyone, m any place,
moving Picture “JS Moying Pictures in the Home without the use of
light', or oil. NO outside light is necessary. You eannot get this
gas, eiecriic* *
advantage in any other cinematograph.
The Films will not burn.
Path * Films are non-inflammable. There is absolutely no danger. In Victoria
The Underwriters’ Association charge no extra premium if a I athe Home
Cinematograph is in the home. You cannot get this advantage in any other
cinematograph.
Large choice of Films in Pathe's Circulating Library
not obtainable for any other cinematograph.
These are three advantages.
Home Entertainer.
Write for Booklet telling you more about this delightful
Send the Coupon to us or any of our agents.
PATHE FRERES,
27 Alliance Buildings,
48 Queen Street, Melbourne.
ft W FRASER & CO , 139 York Street,
s'urinev • BIRCH & CARROLL, Edward Street,
Brisbane; S. SPURLINC & SON 93 Brjsbane
Street Launceston; OPTICAL & PHUTU
SUPPLIES CO., 672 Hay Street, P® rth !
HARRMCTON (N.Z.) LTD., Willis Street,
Wellington, N.Z.
Please send me particulars oj Fathe s
Home Cinematograph.
Name
4ddres,s -
27.


RESCH’S Dinner A le
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Absolutely Pure.
No Preservatives.
R. RRSCH’S LIMITED , Brewer by Appoint-
ment to his Excellency the Governor-General.
Brewery and Offices : Bowling Street, Redfern, Sydney
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & 00., PERTH, KALOOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
DIABETES.
This highly dangerous disease will in its earlier
stages be remedied by prompt treatment with Dr.
Sheldon s Gin Pills. Take them in time. Price,
Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. Obtainable everywhere.*
810-SHOWMEN!
T HERE S only one BEST Biograph. We can prove
1 it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE.” Send for Cata-
logue. Sole Agents: Jerdan’s, Ltd., 393 George Street,
Sydney.
BEST
NATURAL
sdf
APERIENT
WATER
Government Notices.
KALGOORLIE TO PORT AUGUSTA
RAILWAY.
65 feet Car Underframes.
TENDERS will be received until 11a.m. on
26th March, 1913, for the manufacture in
Australia, supply and delivery of sixteen (16)
sixty-five feet (65ft.) Car Underframes.
Forms of tender, specification, conditions of
contract and drawings can be seen after 3rd
March, 1913, at the offices of the Commonwealth
Railways, 84 William Street, Melbourne ; Works
Director, Custom House, Sydney; Common-
wealth Works Registrars, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Hobart; and the Commonwealth Public Service
Inspector, Perth.
The charge for each copy of Specification will
be £1 Is. and ss. a copy for each plan, which
must be paid before the documents can be handed
over.
Tenders, accompanied by the necessary deposit,
should be endorsed “Tender for 65ft. Car
Underframes for Kalgoorlie to Port Augusta
Railway,” and addressed to the Secretary, De-
partment of Home Affairs, Melbourne.
KING O’MALLEY,
Minister of State for Home Affairs.
KALGOORLIE TO PORT AUGUSTA
RAILWAY.
Steel Hopper Ballast Waggons.
TENDERS will be received until 11 a.m. on
Tuesday, Ist April, 1913, for the manufac-
ture in Australia, supply and delivery of ninety
(90) Steel Hopper Ballast Waggons and spare
parts.
Forms of Tender, Specification, Conditions of
Contract and Drawings can be seen after 10th
March, 1913, at the offices of the Commonwealth
Railways, 84 William Street, Melbourne ; Works
Director, Customs House, Sydney; Common-
wealth Works Registrars, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Hobart; and Commonwealth Public Service In-
spector, Perth.
The charge for each copy of Specification vvill
be £1 Is. and ss. a copy for each plan, which
must be paid before the documents can be handed
over.
Tenders, accompanied by the necessary deposit,
should be endorsed “Tender for Steel Hopper
Ballast Waggons,” and addressed to “The Secre-
tary, Department of Home Affairs, Melbourne.”
KING O’MALLEY,
Minister of State for Home Affairs.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
From a mob of 35 orher stragglers The
Bulletin's tip, Relievo, won the Newmarket with a
couple of lengths to spare. Evidently a good game
colt is Relievo. He may not have run quite up to
his great trial, but under the whip he caught the
grey horse Nuwara Eliya more than a furlong from
home, and with the whip still urging him onward he
sceadily advanced. Though Jolly Beggar (25 to 1)
and the rank ousider Kirn came through the field in
pursuit, and passed the tiring grey, the leader never
looked like getting caught. Had Relievo failed at
the finish, it might have been fairly complained that
jockey Connors made his run too soon. The time
(lmin. 14fsec.) has been beaten in half a dozen pre-
vious Newmarkets, and equalled twice; but consid-
ering that there is bound to be a little blocking in
a field of 36, the time was good.
A few people outside of the stable circle had good
wins over Relievo. For a time the three-year-old was
quoted at 50 to 1; a week before the race he stood
at 14 to 1, and on the day the weight of Sydney
money brought him down from 10’s to 6’s, what time
the local punters in general were doing their dash
on Mala, Volsloane, “You’re a Liar,” Habel, Sweet
Malt and a dozen others. To the writer it seemed
that the grey “You’re a Liar” ran like an over-
trained horse. He got away in front and stayed
there for more than half a mile, but probably he had
left some of his stamina on the track. He stopped
too rapidly.
Notwithstanding his victory in the rich A.J.C.
Derby, Cider has been an unlucky colt in the classic
races thusfar. Undoubtedly he would have won the
V.R.C. Derby for Agar Wynne if the pace had been
better, and Wolawa had not interfered with him.
Again he was unlucky to be seized with pains in the
tummy a few days before his V.R.C. Leger engage-
ment came due. The attack of colic put him out of
condition for a long journey. Cider led the’field for
12 furlongs, and was then completely pumped out,
finishing last of a field of four. Wolawa won in
3min. or 6sec. slower than the record for the
race, and 3sec. slower than Cadonia’s time two years
ago. The colic which practically robbed Cider of the
Leger had caused him to be scratched for the Aus-
tralian Cup.
Piastre’s victory for the Essendon Stakes was en-
sured by a friendly pacemaker, in the old-fashioned
way that owners of late years have mostly departed
from. Stable companion Offa was sent to “bustle the
field along, with the result that the 12 furlongs were
covered in 2min. 36Jsec., and Piastre had no diffi-
culty in beating Eudorus and Almissa at the finish.
If the Melbourne Cup winner had been troubled by
soreness on the track, he kept it carefully concealed
from observation in this go with the colors up. His
performance was brilliant. After the race punters
wondered what sort of a champion mile-and-a-halfer
must Duke Foote have been to be able to smother
Piastre in the A.J.C. Metropolitan last October.
* * * *
A little crowd of wildly illogical book-
makers waited on the Victorian Chief Secretary last
week with an amazing grievance. The V.A.T.C. pro-
poses to raise registration fees by 50 per cent., and
these suffering mortals seemed to think that the Gov-
ernment would veto the club’s resolution if some of
them produced surface evidence of their having lost
money in a year’s bookmaking at Caulfield. Too
many h»«;men are licensed, and too few skinners
come romping home on that particular punting
ground, the deputation moaned. It naturally oc-
curred to even Chief Sec. Weary (who is sometimes
too tired for mental calculation) to suggest that
these “representative’’ bookmakers could rid them-
selves of their grievance by stopping away from
Caulfield. They could go fishing on Caulfield Satur-
days, and thus save their money. It is not as
though they are under any compulsion to seek sorrow
by laying the odds anywhere. They had referred
tearfully to the fact that more books are licensed at
Caulfield than at Flemington. A lot of tag-rag Ikeys
come along and help to bear the burden of loss that
is annually imposed upon the ring by tyrant punters.
Why don’t they leave the tag-rags to do all the bet-
ting, and lose all the money, and thereby dry-up the
uncalled-for competition at its source?
The inflation of the Australian Jockey
Club the last few years has been phenomenal. In
1903-4 the club gave away £27,125 in added money,
last year its little fob disgorged £62,750; this year
—but consider the figures how they grow:—
1912-13. 1913-14. Increase.
Spring Meeting .. £25,550 £27,600 12050
Summer ~ .. 3,250 3,950 700
Autumn „ .. 25,050 27,600 2550
Winter „ .. 3,300 4,400 1100
December ~ .. 2,000 2.500 500
Anniversary „ .. 3,600 4,700 1100
£62,750 £70,750 £BOOO
Of this huge swag handicaps absorb £34,100,
weight-for-age and such like events £30,650, and
jumping events £6OOO.
* * * *
“Snaffle” : For a long while I have been
warning The Bulletin’s public about the determina-
tion of the Victoria Racing Club to charge for admis-
sion to the Flemington Flat. Sports have said to
me: “Oh, dear no! Nothing of the kind!” Now the
octopus is out of the bag. It is a simple matter of
fact that the V.R.C. has anplied to the Government
for leave to charge a shilling to the flat. This, re-
member, is Government land. The V.R.C. cunningly
worked round by fencing in the whole course, and try-
ing to exclude the public absolutely on non-racing
days, and so set up a right of possession. This
embargo was, however, broken down by the Fleming-
ton and Essendon municipal authorities, who estab-
lished the public’s permanent right to cross the
course. Little gates are consequently left ajar. Now
the octopus pushes out a tentacle a yard or two fur-
ther with a plain request to be allowed to make the
public part up. Foolish club! The game is not
worth the candle.
That grim comedy known as “The March
of the Athletes,” which took place on Saturday
afternoon at Sydney, presumably ends the dance of
the advertising Dervishes round the bones of Scott
and those who perished with him down South in the
snow. It was an unlovely exhibition—the blaring
band emphasising the heart throb of the Dervishes
with every drum crash, the surfers in their meat-
exposing costumes, the hoofballers in the colors
that have raised “the push” to stoush and glory, the
wearying Maorilanders with hen feathers in their
ears howling dismally and stamping the dust till it
rose and filled the spectator’s nose with germs and
chaff that had been eaten, fancy-dressed cyclists,
oarsmen with their leg-fur fluttering in the breeze,
and such like. The redeeming feature was the ab-
sence of elderly actresses with the collection plate
and the gallery of raw teeth. And when that is all
a show has to recommend it it’s a darned poor show.
* * * *
J. H. Sinclair, the long S’African cricketer
who was in Australia in 1910-11, is dead, aged 36.
On S’African wickets he scored centuries in Test
matches against Australia (2) and England (1). He
had the reputation of being a smiter, and was ex-
pected to be one of the draws of the S’African tour,
but, unfortunately, like others of the team, the giant
was quite unable to gauge the pace of the Australian
billiard table wickets, and he was one of the disap-
pointments that make life a sorrow and a dead-end.
J. N. Crawford, now of Adelaide, bats
and bowls in spectacles, and R. A. Young, of the
same place, keeps wicket in them ; but more aston-
ishing still is this from English papers (13/1/’13):
“Southampton made a last-minute change, Kimpton
going centre-forward for Dawe, who stood down at his
own request, owing to the rain getting on his
glasses and affecting his sight of the ball.” It was
Soccer football, of course; Rugby would seem im-
possible to the spectacled. Is there any record of
anyone having tackled the Australian code thus
handicapped ?
* * * *
Lacrosse is threatening to burst its swad-
dling clothes in Sydney next season. All the old
clubs are booming, or threatening to do so, and fresh
ones are being formed to seek admittance to the
competition. No doubt the fathers of the game
would be delighted to have them all, but the trouble
is to find grounds for them to play on. The foot-
ballers have spied out the land, and snavelled the
spaces thereof, so that no one small, unoccupied strip
is left. An inter-State visit will be made to Brisbane,
and one will be received from Tasmania. All of
which will serve to keep the bubbling enthusiasm at
boiling point.
Another Gas(tronomic) Strike. Frank Picato
(U.S.A.) gives Alf Morey (W.A.) the
tap after a tough struggle.
Yachtsmen went out on Saturday after-
noon prepared to meet the southerly buster that had
been signalled from Jervis Bay, but found it not,
the buster having apparently fallen overboard on the
road, and thereby made room for a mild east-sou’-
easter, with hardly enough strength in it to blow
the yachts along. The result was slow racing. The
event was the Rawhiti Cup, and nine went out after
it. The breeze was too light for the smaller craft
and it quickly developed into a struggle between
the skyscrapers, and the last two miles was a stub-
born duel between Culwulla 111. and Sayonara. Cul-
wulla won, with Sayonara second; Rawhiti, after
which the utensil in abeyance was named, came in a
medium third.
* * * *
An episode on Thursday morning threw a
weird light over the final proceedings at the Mel-
bourne Six Days Bike Race. It seems there was an
“honorable understanding” among the riders that no
one was to attempt to gain a lap in the cold, raw
hours before the dawn, when they were mostly creep-
ing round at about seven miles per hour; but one
rider ignored this agreement, and had lapped the
others before the shameful villainy had dawned on
them. The field was much annoyed at this, and re-
solved to make an example of the rash youth, who
was speedily lapped and lapped again. After that he
retired. In the light of this it is not surprising
there was no more lapping. At 9.45 on Saturday
the 10 riders on the track were told there were 35
more laps to go—seven miles. They crawled round
gradually for 33 laps, the crowd tossing them borak
and insults in bulk, and then the condensed essence
of the 141 hours’ ride—a two-lap sprint—resulted
in R. Spears beating McNamara by a wheel. The
crowd didn’t go mad with excitement. Most of it
had noted the significant fact that Ikey Noses was
laying three to one on Spears, five to one against
McNamara, eight to one Brown and Clifford, and 10
to one others, and drew its own conclusions. Dis-
tance covered, 2028 1-5 miles. As a race it was a
lamentable exhibition of wasted energy; but the
weather was fine all through, the track was in good
order and the lighting was excellent.
At 9 o’clock the last evening transpired the final of
the once-.mighty Austral, worth on this occasion £55
to the winner, and progressively smaller sums to others
down to a fiver for the 6th man. Eleven almost un-
known men started, nicely spread round the track,
from W. Teale on 40 yards to C. Hunter on 200.
Noses was offering “evens Henry, 3 to 1 Southern,
5 to 1 Atkins and any price others,” and naturally
Henry won, by a length or so. Time 4min., 16 4-5
secs. The Austral has now become a mere detail of
the Six Days’ Race, and if there isn’t any week-
long crawl next year it is more than likely there
won’t be any Austral. And, judging by the cock-
sureness of Noseband the firmness with which many
of him declined $ bet against Henry and Spears at
any price, the chances are there won’t be any more
such events for a while.
* * * *
Sydney is sharpening the carv-
ing knife and strengthening the corkscrew, for Vic.,
S. Aus., and Bananaland will all swoop down on the
City of Darkness at Eastertide. In addition an
army of country trundlers will be in the capital at
the same time, raging between the greens and the
show ground. Fortunately, the Sydney bowlers are
past-masters at the art of entertaining.
it- * * *
James Paddon, the sculling meteor who
soared to the Australian championship recently, had
hardly got there when the voice of Arnst announced
that Richard was coming up to pull the other down.
Paddon passed the matter on to his punters, and they
have decided that Richard’s money shall be collected,
and that Richmond River, North Coast, shall be the
place of the collecting. They say sculling draws
good gates on the Richmond, and they want a good
gate. The decision will probably provoke a howl
from Sydney.
* # * *
A double defeat by Ted Wickham, at the
Vic. Championship Carnival last week, is the first
downfall of burly William Longworth in a scratch
event since Cecil Healy outed him in the 100 yards
N.S.W. Championship away back in March, 1911.
Longworth’s monopoly of State and Continental
championships has been a thing to marvel at. Ap-
parently as he grows more set he is losing that mar-
vellous sprinting ability. Sic transit, etc.
The gas strike was not the sole cause of
gloom at North Sydney on Saturday night. That
afflicted suburb wrapped itself in sackcloth while it
sat in darkness, or cursed by the light of a Bur-
mese candle. For the district XI had failed miser-
ably against Clebe, and been dismissed for a paltry
141, while Glebe had responded with 98 for two
wickets. In spite of the darkness North Sydney can
see the shadow of defeat looming. Aided thereto
vastly by Pite’s 119, Waverley smacked 270 against
Paddington. This was the oniy century to grace the
afternoon. Redfern promises to make a holy show of
Central Cumberland, having dismissed the men from
Parramatta for 162, and then smacked up 196 for
four wickets. Middle Harbor journeyed to Balmain,
and got 278 knocked off its bowling by the time the
sun set. Nevertheless a trundler named Tierney dis-
tinguished himself by taking five Balmain wickets
for 52. Middle Harbor apparently did not discover
Tierney in time. Up at Chatswood Gordon fell on
the invading University team and smashed it up for
92, and then, hurrying to the sticks, made 158. Bur-
wood and Petersham made a rushing sort of a match,
getting through two innings and part of a third on
one afternoon. Burwood vanished for 116, and got
Petersham out for 103; then, rushing back to the
wickets, it smacked up 11 without losing a wicket.
It was a hustling performance.
* * * *
The penultimate round of Melbourne pen-
nant cricket started on Saturday. The V.C.A. has
this season reverted to its former custom of letting
the four leading teams battle out the semi-finals.
Of these four ’Roy is certain to be one, but the
other three places are still open to ’Varsity, ’Wood,
South and P’ran; consequently Saturday’s collision
of ’Varsity and ’Wood was of moment. The latter
won the toss, but made poor use of the batsmen’s
wicket, slowly and laboriously totting up 214 for
six wickets. Some 1500 sarcastic barrackers viewed
the episode, gratis. South, on the other hand, made
the most of its chances, and gave an exhibition of
’Cote by rushing together 335 runs for two wickets.
P’ran similarly accumulated 313 for two wickets;
and if it can get the Saints out for less next Satur-
day it may vet arrive. Carlton raked in 227 against
North, and Richmond declared with six wickets down
for 295 off Essendon’s bowlers; but the encounters
of these clubs no longer matter in the scheme of
things. ’Roy had a practice game with Melbourne
on the Metrop. C. G., the occurrence being of note
only because W. Webb, of ’Roy, emulated George
Bonnor’s feat of long ago by lifting a ball from T.
Armstrong on to the members’ pavilion. He was
endeavoring to better the feat when Armstrong
bowled him. East had the bye, which was just as
well, considering that it is already far down the list
and that five of its players are in the inter-State
team at Adelaide, and had Seitz been able to get
away he would have been there too. It seems pecu-
liar that a team boasting six inter-State players
should be no higher than seventh on the list, while
the “placed” teams —’Varsity, ’Wood and South-
are “allowed” to keep their men at home. But
many peculiar things happen in cricket.
* * * *
Now that the Vie. ’oofball clubs are pub-
lishing their balance-sheets for last season, the pub-
lic learns that the ’bailer actually gathers in from
two-thirds to five-sixths of each club’s revenue; also
it understands why secretaries, treasurers and com-
mitteemen wear a permanent worried look. Whether
they will need to do so in future will rest with
themselves, the League having last week passed a
resolution that there shall be no appeal to itself by
a player to whom his club has refused a transfer.
As this body has an agreement in good working
order with the Association that no player shall
transfer himself without the permission of both
parties, that disaster to the game, the migratory
player, is liable to find his future path somewhat
rocky. If his club won’t play him itself, and won’t
allow him to transfer to another, he just won’t
play at all—-and that ends it. Also, a committee
can pay its ’bailers just enough for dry bread, and
if they don’t like to play on those terms they can
stand idle —and that’s all. Under these circum-
stances next year’s balance-sheets should show a more
healthy complexion, but—there is a large possibility
of injustice to boggers-in. If, say, a committee, or
even a bare majority of one, should get a down on
a player, it might stand him aside and keep him that
way permanently. And that might easily create
arguments, strikes and other unseemly happenings.
Now, a strict scheme of district hoofbail—say with a
two or three years’ residential qualification, would
keep an equally effective restraint on the migratory
player, while withholding from committees the auto-
cratic power the new rule gives them.
* * * *
At Lavender Bay (Sydney) on Saturday
there was wild excitement among the water-nymphs
when Miss Wylie and Miss Durack contested the 100
yards championship of N.S.W. (Ladies’ Section, of
course). At 50 yards Miss Durack was about 3ft. in
front; then Miss Wylie, coming with a splendid
rush, ranged alongside, and for the next 25 yards
they put forth their utmost. It was the famous
crawl stroke that proved too much for Miss Wylie’s
double over-arm, and landed Miss Durack a winner
by approximately 3vds. Miss Kerr was third, about
7yds. behind Miss Wylie.
* * * «
Malcolm E. Champion, of Auckland, is a
Triton among the jelly-fish in Maoriland swimming
haunts. At the recent championship meeting he
romped home first in the 100, 220, 440, 880 yards
and one mile events. He is quite accustomed to
doing that sort of thing, having played the same
trick in 1901, 1908 and 1912. Altogether he has
garnered 32 Maoriland championships, and keeps
them in the locker in which he stowed the 1911 half-
mile and long-distance championships of England.
Australian professional champion swim-
mer Oscar Dickman is off to conquer new worlds in
Germany, France, England and the U.S.A. There is
no great money to be made swimming in Australia,
but on the other side of the world there are lots of
people who will pay good prices to see a professional
twirl his legs through the water. Also, there is no
other professional swimmer in the Commonwealth
like Dickman, so he finds himself lonely. The trip
will either cause his pocket to swell, or take the con-
ceit right out of him. Let us hope it may be the
former.
* * * «
Those whom the gods would destroy they first
make mad has a special application to the Continen-
tal Tyre Co. This fool-concern has been advising its
clients to carefully wash their tyres after a long
and dirty run, whether the dirt is wet or dry. When
it is a case of dust, the tyres should be wiped over
with a damp cloth or sponge. When they are en-
crusted with mud they should be well hosed till th
last particle of mud is removed, and then dried
fully with a soft cloth. The Continental Tyre Co**
business is to sell tyres, but this advice, if careful!*
followed, will increase the life of the average tvr
by 150 per cent., and the fool Continental Tyre On
advertises the fact. On second thoughts the co i
not the fool it seems. The average motorist will
read, mark, learn and inwardly digest the advice re
mark, “Ry-buck!” and go to bed leaving his t’vrai
exactly as they finished the run; and when the dis
appointed motorist comes along with complaints
the co. can honestly say, “Well, we told you!” S ’
That sterling citizen and genuine fighter
Johnny Summers, is back in Sydney, and was form’
ally welcomed at a small dinner given by Mr. Baker
last Monday night. Summers was always a game
fighter, but some of the wise ones who saw him
stripped for action say he is vastly improved. Speak-
ing on Monday night, he reminded the company that
he really graduated in Sydney, as his first fight was
fought in the Ma capital, and it is his earnest wish
that it should also be the scene of his last.
Alf. Morey, lately a bright and shinim*
amateur boxer in Westralia, entered the professional
ring at the Sydney Stadium against the seasoned but
debonair fighter, Frank Picato, on Saturday night
No one expected him to win—Picato’s fame rested on
too solid a foundation to be overturned by a stripling
fresh from the amateurs. Somehow, the amateur
never seems to acquire ringcraft; that, apparently
comes only with the pursuit of the winner’s end of
the “gate.” With the golden lure for ever gleaming
in his eyes the bruiser declines to know when he is
licked. The spirit of the game seemed to descend
with considerable alacrity upon Morey, for he came
back again and again in a manner that worried the
dark-eved, sad-faced Americo-Italian youth consider-
ably. The Westralian fought with both hands, and
never was so formidable as after taking nine seconds
on the floor. Picato’s personality was overwhelmed
by the sudden ferocity of the attack of the fallen
man, and when he strove to stem the blizzard of
blows by leading on his own account, his attacks and
returns were cleverly blocked. There was only one
thing Morey lacked, and that was stamina. Either
he didn’t possess it or he was out of condition. But
he put up a magnificent fight. The superior ring-craft
of Picato was, however, invincible. On points Morey
was winning. But no one who watched the fight dreamed
for a moment he could go the full 20 rounds. Picato
was bound to win, sooner or later, on a knock-out, for
Morey’s strength was ebbing like the sunlight on a
midwinter afternoon. The 12th saw Morey a very
exhausted bruiser, whose hitherto effective smother
was beginning to wilt and fade very sadly. Picato,
on the other hand, seemed to grow stronger every
round, and, contrary to all rules, he swung an
obscene right instead of a divine left, which
flustered Morey badly, and sent Morey to the floor
for nine seconds. When ly rose, he was very groggy
indeed, but he put up such a magnificent bluff that
even the sturdy Picato backed away from him.
Terrific as it was, Picato knew it was a mere flash in
the pan, and so did Morey’s seconds, who, deeming
he had done quite enough in a hopeless battle, threw
in the towel. The towel caught on the ropes and
waved disconsolately, like a forlorn lover’s signal,
till someone drew referee Scott’s attention to it, and
he promptly declared Picato the winner. Which was
absolutely correct. Mr. Baker, however, was so
pleased with the showing of the defeated man that
he promised him a golden medal to commemorate his
first Sydney showing. It was a fine fight, clean
and vimful from start to finish.
* * * •
John Roberts, the daddy of billiard cham-
pions, has journeyed to Australia, this time for his
health’s sake only. The fine, upstanding professor is
suffering from a serious affection of the heart, and,
seeing that it must have been a mighty sound organ
in the first instance to have kept him going in
public for 45 years, its recent breakdown invites
medical discussion. Is the periodical strain of
match-playing a bad thing for a robust Roberts; or
does the bending over a billiard table for hours every
day in every year for half a century eventually find
him out; or does he help to weaken his heart by
smoking? Roberts belongs, or did belong until
recently, to the smoking section of billiard pros.
There were no teetotal and non-smoking professors of
any game of skill in his young days. Champions
played the game all round, and if their physical
constitution was not exceptionally good they dropped
out.
THE EAR BITERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Two men —a jockey and a horse-trainer—were re-
cently committed for trial in Brisbane for biting a
man’s ear. —News item.
Myself in callow days that some called Youth
Did eagerly frequent the racecourse booth,
And listened to the tale some whisp’rer told
And when the prad lost merely said “Gorstruth!”
A patriot he who now has sought the rod
To scourge frequenters of the paths I trod.
Ten Black Marias scarce would hold the crowd
Were those that bit my ear now borne to quod!
VICTORIA.
D. M. K.


§0 PER CENT. SAVING IN YOUR
= AhRATED WATER ACCOUNT
• ♦ ♦
BY USING . . .
E CRERSIEY’S
I
mmur
m
“REGAL"
Aerated Water
Machines
Special Autumn
Booking Terms
Now Available.
Write for our Booklet,
* MODERN CARBONATING AND BOTTLING MACHINES/'
Contrasted with so-called "Aerating Machines/'
Over 3000 Hotelkeepers throughout Australasia are now using our Machines.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUES.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS:
ECKERSLEY & SONS,
Cr. Bridge 8 Young Sts., SYDNEY; Cr. Clarendon 8 Haig Sts., MELBOURNE.
AQENTS:
W. AUSTRALIA. Lionel Samson & Sons, Cliff Street, FREMANTLE.
S. AUSTRALIAj—AnkI & Sons, Commercial Chambers, Gilbert Place,
NEW ZEALAND —Aerated Water Machines & Supplies Co., N.Z. Express
Co. s Buildings, WELLINGTON. P
QUEENSLAND. Elliot, Donaldson & Douglas, Queen Street, BRISBANE.
—■imi
in*' ' * ' . •
*. & />
I k •” £:• .....
a
i-V
HIM
%»*•
■
Is
..
Iff
ISP
n
;.
?:-.y
W
I
Thoroughbred
Clothes
Clothes with a Pedigree—
Clothes that are the product of
mellow experience wedded to
the best modern manufacturing
methods —Clothes of the class
that have led the aristocracy of
Australian wear for a gener-
ation—These are the clothes
that we will make to your order
at prices from
50s. to 105 s.
Don’t worry in what distant
comer of the Commonwealth
your home lies —through the
agency of our Mail Order Dept,
the Best that the City man can
get is yours also —and at the
same price—Our “Mail Order”
Catalogue, Self - measurement
Forms, Tapes, and
Patterns (Post Free)
from the biggest and best col-
lection of High-grade Suitings
in the Commonwealth are yours
for the asking—and remember,
our Guarantee of Satisfaction
covers the Fit, Cut, and Finish
of Every Garment.
Write —To —Day.
Lincoln, Stuart & Co.
254-254 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Pty.
Ltd.
EXERCISE MAKES the HEALTHY
healthier
,or ll “ «-»
lhe destruction ol a ureatc, or
This n rocP( L if ’ ln P r °P° rtlon the exertion involved,
ih s process is going on every minute of the day, and unless
SiST.» “* “““ »' tissue will
By performing a few simple, yet scientific, exercises such as
imf e d C Ti PnSlng i the BAKER C ° URSE of Heal th Exercises, you
sTrfct n w^-^ 61 / 11 ;^^ 611 ° r WOrnout and’con
struct new tissue to take its place.
are receiWngf ** illustrated ** the results others
“ l feel much stronger and better in every way
since I started your Course. I thank you most sincerely
for bringing me better health. 1 w iU always recommend
your postal course to my friends.”—H.L.S., Warwick, Q.
Very full information respecting my methods, fees, etc., is
given in an interesting 18-page folder. Write for a copv
Kindly send three penny stamps to cover postage.
Reg. L . (“Snowy”) Baker
sd
fsd
fsd
153 Belmon ' t Buildings, Castlereagh Street, Sydney
ON TNENOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
00 (DOUBLe‘O')
Old Orkney Whisky
SHELL’
BENZINE
THE CLEAN
AND
POWERFUL SPIRIT
V .'v.. ..■>'''" * '
FOR ALL MOTORS
L. W. DODGE 8 CO.
(VICTOR TRUMPER & DODGE LTD.)
CRICKET SEASONALITIES.
All Cane Bats, Bound Blales, 5/6
each.
Cane and Rubber Spliced Handles,
8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 13/6, 15/-, 17/6, 20 -
The “ SPECIAL ” Cross Rubber, 22/6.
The VICTOR DRIVER, 25/-
VictorTrumper& Dodge Ltd. Special,
30/-
BALLS —Leather Match, 4/6, 6/-, 5/3,
5/9, 6/3 each.
WlCKETS—BrassTopsandSteel Shod,
5/6, 6/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6 per set.
Leg Cuards, Wioket-keeping Gaunt-
lets. Batting Cloves, Matting.
Boots and Shoes, Shirts, Sweaters,
Trousers, eto.
Our Illustrated Handbook of Sports
will be posted to you tree on receipt of
your application. •
Jl7 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
f
No More Suffering
Pile suffering can be made a thing of the past if you will but
take Murphy’s Pile Pills.
They are beyond all doubt a sure cure for the insistent, irritat-
ing, painful, distressing, temper-trying agony that these per-
sistent ulcers cause.
They expel the impurities from the blood, banish the itching and
congestion, heal the inflamed tissues, and restore them to normal.
Murphy’s Pile Pills are harmless in composition, can be safely
taken by everyone, and are obtainable at all chemists and store-
keepers at 3/- per box. If not obtainable locally, post your order
to the Sole Proprietors: ANDREW MURPHY, LTD., Dept. 8.,
109 Regent Street, Sydney.
Murphy’s Pile Pills
A
Gent.’s Highest-Grade Footwear
sdf
Originality of designs, combined with style, fit and
wearing qualities of the highest value, have placed the
Rigney Shoes in the forefront of Gent.’s high-grade
Footwear.
The boot illustrated is an American Model made from
choice Vici Kid.
In Velour Calf, 23/6 and 25/-
Also in Shoes, 19/6, 21/- and 22/6.
POSTAGE 9d. EXTRA.
Write to-day for a Copy of our Catalogue.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO..
*l * e» ars f a T—T 1/vt. Ct. Ci 19
The Men's Exclusive High-grade Shoe Stores,"
305 GEORGE ST., and 179 a PITT ST., SYDNEY.


A New Lease of Health.
“ The wonders brought about by this
preparation are no less manifold than
amazing.”
So writes a well-known physician in
the Medical Press and Circular one
of sixteen thousand doctors who have
testified to the value of Sanatogen in
various kinds of weakness, loss of nerve-
power, impaired digestion, brain-fag,
sleeplessness, and general weakness.
Sanatogen, the tonic food with lasting
effects, has given a new lease of health
to more than a million sufferers, in-
cluding many of the most distinguished
people in the land.
Nerve Power Restored.
The reason for Sanatogen’s great
efficacy in nervous disorders has been
pointed out by no less an authority than
Sir Charles A. Cameron, C. 8., M.D.,
Public Analyst of Dublin, who states:
“ Sanatogen is an excellent nerve food,
containing a large amount of organic
phosphorus in exactly the form in which
it can be easily absorbed.”
But Sanatogen does more than revivify
the nervous system. It also builds up
the muscular tissues and has a beneficial
effect upon every organ of the body.
Write for a Free Booklet.
All who feel run down, weary and
depressed —Nature’s warning of nervous
weakness —should write to-day for a Free
Booklet, “ The Art of Living,” to Messrs.
A. Wulfing & Co., 17, Bond Street,
Sydney, N.S."W. Kindly mention this
paper when writing.
Sanatogen is sold by all Chemists,
price 2s. 6d., 3s. 6d., and 6s. 6d. per tin.
“ I have watched the effects of Sanatogen upon persons suffering
from various kinds of weakness and loss of nerve-power, and I
have proved it to be most valuable.”—Lady Henry Somerset.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“The Paymaster”: Chloride vf tin, used to impart
“rustle” to silk (B. 6/2/’l3), seems to be having it
all its own way in the trade. In an early issue of
The Lone Hand a simple test was given for discov-
ering impurities in silk fabrics. I have tried it many
times since; and, apart from the silk in a few
good sunshades, “shantung” is the only silk that
hasn't left a metallic framework behind it after the
material has been burnt. And shantung is practically
unprocurable, although when it was “fashionable it
sold at a lower price than silk taffeta, a loaded
article. It is alleged that the shops don’t sell the
real thing because it lasts too long a plausible
enough explanation of a fashion-phenomenon. Loaded
silks, however expensive, and most silk sunshades
crack after a few months, whether in use or not. The
draper guarantees his goods pure silk, and when,
later on, you tax him with his crime, he says: Oh,
yairs—moths!” #
“Lantana”: It . is quite odd to read that the parcel
post has only been established in the United States
this year, having come into practice on January 1,
1913. The system is in existence in 43 other coun-
tries, but it was only after endless discussion and
argument that it lagged into use in the States. It
has been known in Englarld for the past 30 years, and
it is said that a woman was- the cause of it. one
took a pair of trousers to the post office, wanting to
post them at the lower rate allowed for books and
other printed matter. The officials laughed at her,
but she insisted that the regulations stipulated that
articles open at both ends could go by the lower
rates, and that nothing was more open at both ends
than a pair of trousers. The matter was brought be-
fore the Postmaster-General, who decided that she
was right. That, according to the story, or lie, or
whatever it may be, was the beginning of the parcel
post in England. After all, the woman was only
partly right. The most open-at-both-ends article
isn’t a pair of trousers; it is a hoop. #
The B.M.A. practitioner isn’t the only person
barred by “professional etiquette” from advertising
like any other tradesmen. The calender of the
Royal Institute of British Architects (London) inti-
mates that “it is undesirable for architects to ex-
hibit their names on boards or hoardings m front of
buildings in course of construction. Some members
have been disregarding this hint, so the shocked in-
stitute lately notified its allied societies that mem-
bers really must be more dignified in future, it is
a beautiful tail, no doubt, but what a silly °H cat
it is that wears it! Why shouldn’t an architect put
his name to a house, if he wants to, .lust as Land-
seer, or Corot, or Norman Lindsay or any other
artist does to his picture? #
That rare bird, a lady chemist, has been before
en Adelaide Court. She objected to the Board of
Health’s inspector going over her premises, P r ' v 'ate
rooms and all. They sent a lady inspector, but she
still objected. In court the Board offered to with-
draw, without costs, if she would climb down but
6he preferred to “know just what the laws of the
country are.” The law proved to be that the Board
had the right to go over “such portions of premises
as are deemed necessary.” So the lady was fined
and ordered to pay costs into the bargain.
* * *
“Brumby”: Re fruit-vendors’ tricks (B. 13/2/’l3).
The dizziest limit is reached by the granite-faced
toughs who slouch round Sydney streets, with a hand-
cart bearing a huge cardboard sign announcing
cheap fruit for sale. As the unwary boob ventures
a purchase, one of the ruffians turns away to execute
his order. Simultaneously his mate' bawls Change f
with such a menacing aspect as to rudely arrest the
buyer’s attention from his confederate. By the time
the disconcerted citizen has paid his money, and
partlv recovered his composure, he finds himself
grasping a bag of inferior and undersized cooking
pears worth 4d. a dozen, topped perhaps with a
couple of the alluring specimens exposed as bait at
16 for Is. It’s useless for the victim to start
arguing the point then, unless he can use his
“dooks.” However, these are but the pettifoggers
of the profession. In spite of Tomatrius Peanutti s
plaintive look whenever the existence of a Sydney
fruit ring is mentioned, I know that the trifling
bonus of £lOOO was paid a short time ago by
one of him, for the privilege of being allowed to
pay the exorbitant rent of very ordinary shop
premises not far from Circular Quay. Both he and
others of his friends, Romans and countrymen in the
trade possess very good grips of Australia in the
shape of terrace houses, etc., on both sides of th
harbor. Yet they’ll tell you that ze pizness not so
ver’ good. Froot ver’ scarce. Damon ver scarce.
Joost maka da #
“F H.”: Tomatoes, according to the papers, have
had a terrible slump in Sydney. The reports allege
that, by the time the unfortunate growers have paid
their freight, commission and other marketing ex-
penses, there is nothing coming their way which
means that there is a loss, since labor, water, manure
and seed have all to be paid for soon or late. The
grower has my sympathy, lor my own use 1 grew
some tomatoes this year. There were only a ew
dozen of them, but they wore me to a- shadow t a m
ing them in the way they should go. I shudder
when I think of how attenuated the producer must
be who grows his plants by the acre. U P'*°' d + ul
tomato-raising—which certainly does Produce the
goods—means seeding in a hot-bed, planting out,
sheltering, staking, mulching, pinching off laterals,
liquid manuring, hand-watering, disbudding and
spraying. Yet the tomatoist is prepared to do all
this tedious work as a mere gamble, and the odds
are that he will have the cards stacked on him m
the end. Then, having received his pitiful little bit
of money, he will go out and vote No six times
when the Referenda arrive. That is to say, he will
vote in favor of more fruit-ring, more agent-robber
more manure-combine and more heartbreak. on
second thoughts, I withdraw my sympathy.
* * * *
“Sine Joeo”: In these days of reforms, inquiries
and Royal Commissions, it is time the Lnclaimed
Balance was elevated to the rank of the Things
That Want Looking Into. Some States have laws
on the subject of the credit balance which nobody
stems to want, especially the rightful owner; but
these laws are mostly suffering from insomnia
Take the unclaimed deposits in the banks, both
fixed and current account. When the banks in 1890
lav down and took nine seconds breathing time,
thousands of pounds of money left till called for
were mopoed up in the reconstruction schemes and
disappeared into secret reserves, or were transferred
bv the medium of a pink slip to the credit of Bad
Debts Account. Some of the banks carried these
monevs forward to the new books; others did not.
The unclaimed divs. in the hands of legal managers
of mining cos. are rarely properly accounted .for to
the Government, in the absence of the rightful
claimants, and sharebrokers receive large sums as
dividends on shares put into their clerks names, for
snlittinsr up, or to protect dividends. What be
comes of these vagrant divvies? It is certain that
clients who are shareholders forget or never know of
many dividends. What do the sharebrokers do with
these windfalls? Do they pay them into a trust ac-
count? Trade assignees and company liquidators
hold large sums unclaimed bycreditorsand share-
holders, which they should rightly pay to the State
Treasury. Do they? The case of liquidation divs.
in defunct mining companies is specially on< ?
out for attention. Some legal managers who wind
up mining cos. simply ,pay the divs. not
lifted into their personal bank accounts, and there
the* evaporate. For a start, one clause m . Con \
monwealth Banking Bill forfeiting unclaimed balances
to the Crown would do good.
* * *
“Y Z ”: Mv friend is a new-chum, a tall, thin,
benign youth' of 24, who has been sent out by his
superior parents to make his fortune in Australia
He is expected home with the fortune towards the
end of 1913, but meanwhile is looking closely into
Melbourne institutions —such as hotels, music-halls
and theatres —with the aid of a powerful, single-
barrelled eyeglass. Towards the end of December last
Algie looked me up to explain that he had just been
apprised of the approach of a Christmas box from the
“deah old matah.” At Algiers request I accompanied
him to receive delivery and investigate the case, it
was 4ft. by 4ft. every way, and contained seven
gross of jumping-jacks (the ordinary pink monkey
on a vellow stick), two and twenty dozen of cheap
hand-mirrors, one gross of colored bead neck-
laces. five gross of brass rings, 100 brass
bangles, a lot of hair combs and one dozen small pot
gods. Algie’s “deali old matah” pointed out in her
loving letter to Algie, that these goods would be of
enormous value to her darling boy in enabling him
to make extensive deals in gold, ivory and arable
land with the simple Australian native races.
* * * *
“William Henry Croesus”: One of life’s little mas-
teries is how a man’s pockets come to be loaded up
with ha’pennies, always including an odd one. Do
you know? The pairs can be accounted for by tram-
change and so on, but what about the lonely odd
one? For, of course, I never buy things that have
an odd halfpenny in the price. So common, y’ know!
Suppose I must unknowingly accept bright halfpenee
in mistake for sovs., for, of course, it’s beastly bad
form for a fellow to look at his change.
* * * *
“Leel”: The oil contained in the lumps of fat
which the iguana wears in front of his dinner waggon
is far and away the best for use on oilstones that
I’ve ever struck. With this dressing the stone cuts
better and quicker than it does with any of the
imported goods that one buys at 6d. per bottle or so.
And it keeps moist and thin on the stone for an
exceptionally long time. What about this for an Aus-
tralian industry? Go. skins are worth about 6d. per
foot, too.
* * * *
It’s a good wind that blows nobody any ill, which
is a fact local cap manufacturers are realising in
regard to immigration. About 999 out of every
thousand immigrants wear caps, and the home-grown
Australian has decided in large numbers that he isn't
going to be mistaken for an immigrant, and has,
therefore, sworn off caps. Consequently retailers of
the item can’t get their stock off their shelves, and
they won’t give their usual orders, wherefore cap
manufacturers who anticipated the usual orders are
disgusted with immigration. Still, if the situation
is bad for the cap makers, hat makers are likely to
pouch a few pounds more.
* * * *
The Vic. Government might, if it were a public-
spirited rather than a self-seeking concern, do a
great stroke of popularity in the country by put-
ting an end to the damnable game of dredging for
gold in the waterways of the State. The loudest
protest against the dredge fiends comes just now from
the Ovens Valley, and people are looking for scan-
dalous reasons why the work of destruction has so
long gone on unchecked. One way and another, Vic-
toria pays darned dearly for its gold output.
FRUIT OF DREAMS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The burdened camel of the day
Lay down upon the tracks of night;
A sleep-wind blew the world away
And left my dreaming white.
With trays of crystal, overwinged
By radiant winnowings of air,
God’s nine tall ladies robed and ringed
Came down the starry stair.
Their clear, unslippered footsteps made
A tinkling music as they stept,
Their wild hair falling from the braid
About their shoulders swept.
The silver cloud on which I lay
Was broidered with their warm, sweet eyes,
And heaped on every shining tray
Were fruits of Paradise.
Not the forbidden fruits that fall
So lightly to the sinner’s touch,
Whose taste of honey, fire and gall
Burns the tongue overmuch.
Not those ambrosial things that grew
So redly when the world was young,
E’er Bacchus and his merry crew
A pine-topped thrysus swung.
Not apples from a convent wall,
Deep bowered in peace, where slow suns shone
And never shadow learned to fall,
In rest-sweet Avalon.
Not fruit of the Hesperides,
Plucked in the shining of the West,
By soft winds of the last low seas
To ripest gold caressed.
Not orchard wonders of the world,
Whose fragrance is a singing mist,
That lie in leaves of myth upcurled
Where comes no botanist.
God's nine tall ladies bore not these
Upon the crystal of their trays,
But such a fruit as best can please
These hard, dull, business days.
For round my cloudy, dreaming bed,
O’erstooped by those nine swan-like npek«,
The clear-writ signatures I read
On several dozen cheques.
And all of these were signed for me
With words and figures speaking joy,
That fifty duns of memory
Were helpless to destroy. .
Oh, it was good to live and breathe
And feel so much of gladness near,
To let my happy spirit seethe
In such an atmosphere!
But world-winds blew my dream away
And left me of delight forlorn;
The burdened camel of the day
Bose in the tracks of morn.
N.S.tf.
GEORGE STREET.
THE VALLEY OF THE SHADOW OF DEBT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They have walked through the Valley of the Shadow
of Debt
So long, till the dim, dead road
Seems never ending, and hearts forget
To groan at their dreary load ;
A moonless dark and a sunless day
They have known too long to regret,
But the twinge of thought still comes on the way
Of the Valley of the Shadow of Debt.
As they walk through the Valley of the Shadow
of Debt
They muse on their hapless day,
And dream of the deeds they may ’stablish yet,
When, free from its stifling sway ;
But sleepless wardens guard all escape,
And never their charge forget,
Not e’en at the gate that is hung with crape
In the Valley of the Shadow of Debt.
Though they walk through the Valley of the Shadow
of Debt
They have glimpses of men above,
With gold for pleasure and gold for sweat
And gold to barter for love;
And they see the children of plenty smile.
Then their own with wan cheeks wet,
So upon their quest for the pass they file
Through the Valley of the Shadow of Debt.
N.S.W.
NORMAN LILLRY.


Ji
y
*
■V-
p- .
ix,. ■••
x*.
V A*rv
S*
*v • :
■ -aWk
s»r?:
i a
%
ffl&l
M.
•:,v«
oS*
■V
mm
; V -!•> •;/• . &
?.^v r ;V * *■ ■••: ••/. ■
W
.
i \
~4vi
,• • . . . . '••
‘* v .
mMm
pHfefi
%-v
iV*
I'M
U ■«
KM
m
USX
\
\\l ■
•-
at»;.
i. 4tr.
sv-i
- yiit-
1-
*'. . v •
. -w
•••
.-• h
''' •• '' . ' -
s*’ 3 ,|
* t as
. mm**#*?”*-*..
'
HU
r /
? v v
,vv->v/-:
*
■'•• 'V& .£;Vo
IwWiBIHBBi
r."
£ * /r - ‘
■-
n?r,?-
mmmm
Rif u wflPfillS.l . 5 " >
■ m
• *
■-
- ■'
*
THE fine, bracing air of Katoomba restores lost
energy. To enjoy your visit to the full, at
the “ CARRINGTON ” —the finest Hotel on
the mountains. Replete with every luxury and con-
venience, handy to station and principal sights.
Electrically lighted throughout, and possessing a
modem Hydropathic Department.
Tariff —£3 10s. per week; 12s. 6d. per day.
Full information from CITY OFFICE,
18 Imperial Arcade, Pitt Street, Sydney.


IF it is NOT
SCOTT’S
Emulsion
it is not good
enough for you.
When “run down,” troubled
with chest and throat com-
plaints when baby suffers
from childhood ailments—imi-
tations are not good enough.
You need genuine SCOTT'S
Emulsion. In all cases of
poor health,
nerve & bone
weaknesses,
SCOTT’S Emulsion is a proved
remedy. Recommended every-
where by doctors by reason of
its purity, strength and quality.
Therefore ask for SCOTT’S
Emulsion it brings
new strength
age_
you may be. Remember imitation
emulsions may look the same, but
only genuine SCOTT’S Emulsion can
give you new vitality, renewed strength
and power.
m
The packet of genuine
SCOTT’S Emulsion
bears this trade
mark. It is our
guarantee of SCOTT
purity and genuine-
ness. Avoid mis-
takes by asking for
SCOTT’S Emulsion
and seeing the trade
mark.
Of all Chemists and
Medicine Dealers.
ANTINEU RASTH I N
TREATMENT OF
NERVOUS AND WASTING DISEASES.
The wonderful properties of Antineurasthin (Leci-
thin in an absolutely pure form) for successfully
treating all nerve maladies, Dyspepsia, Anaemia,
Rheumatism, etc., and imparting permanent mental
and nerve force, reflect the latest and most important
achievements in medical science.
One of the most important of the wonderful re-
sults obtained by this treatment is that not alone
does it build up-the nervous system by feeding the
brain and nerve-cells with their natural food ele-
ment, but on account of its beneficial action upon
the process of nutrition and upon the blood, the
whole general health shows prompt improvement,
particularly in wasting diseases.
A FREE TRIAL.
In order that the worth of Antineurasthin may be
tested, a sample supply, together with a treatise on
nervous maladies, will be forwarded to any address
in Australia on receipt of 2d. in stamps to cover
postage by the wholesale representative, H. A. God-
dard, No. S Eden’s Buildings, George Street, Bris-
bane; or Branches: 194 Vickery’s Chambers, 82 Pitt
Street, Svdnev; 9-15 Safe Deposit Buildings, Queen
Street, Melbourne; 3 Ellershaw’s Buildings, Cliff
Street, Fremantle ; 213 Watson’s Buildings, Wellesley
Street. East Auckland.
Serial No. 810. —Guaranteed under the Pure Foods
Act of New South Wales by H. A. Goddard, Sydney,
to contain not less than 10 per cent. Pure Lecithin.
No. 810. t 2
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE.
Wm-
Made in England. Perfectly
harmless, indetectable,
and guaranteed free
from Nitrate of
Silver and Lead
Salts.
IN VARIOUS
| SHADES Raven
Black, Black,
! Brown, Light or
Golden Brown,
Blonde, Chestnut
and Auburn
Price 3/6, posted 3/11
Directions with every
bottle.
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 The Block Arcade, Collins St.. Melbourne
Do you fed weak? Are
you easily tired? All run
down? Nervous? Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla is a greattonic.
A CORRESPONDENT writes: “There is
always one feature in The Lone
Hand each month that is alone worth the
price charged for the whole number.” The
price of The Lone Hand is 6d.
The Queen of Table Waters
QUARTS, PINTS AND SPLITS.
It Pays to Ask for the
'ABERDEEN'
(Regd.)
Brand of Horse and Cow Rugs.
They cost no more than the average kind, but are
infinitely superior to any. The workmanship of
ABERDEEN brand of Horse and Cow Rugs is splen-
did. They give extremely long service and give
great comfort and warmth to the beasts.
Write direct to us if the ABERDEEN brand is
unobtainable locally.
SMITH, COPELAND S CO. LTD.
sdf
SHOWROOMS : 204=206 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
FACTORY: 33=37 REGENT STREET (opposite Central Railway Station).
AGENTS
-—izt —
iSSy
-VICTORIA—J. Bartram & Son, Bourke Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND—H. I. H. Ross, Edward Street, Brisbane.
S. AUSTRALIA—C. D. Whiting & Co., Adelaide.
TASMANIA—Seabrook & Neal, Collins Street, Hobart.
WEST AUS.—A. Balharry, Perth.
sdf
THE
FIRST TUBE
A
of Pebeco you use will clearly demonstrate its merits to the
full. The taste is totally different from that of any other
dentifrice; not flat, but quite distinctive and agreeable, a
taste remarkably clean, refreshing and purifying, a taste
which, once accustomed to, you will not willingly miss.
OBTAINABLE ALL CHEMISTS.
Trial Tube, with useful Book and interesting test, Free
for three penny stamps, on application to the Sole Agent,
G. ARNOLD
(Dept. M), 6 O’Connell Street,
(WHOLESALE ONLY).
Sydney
[ 3
Champion Shoe
Machinery Co.,
St. Louis
U.S.A
Combination Harness and Shoe Stitchers,
Nailers, and Finishing Outfits (power
or foot). Easily operated.
NON-ROYALTY.
No Shoe Repair Shop Complete without
“ CHAMPION ” Outfits.
J. W. LARBALES TIER, LTD.,
Sole Australasian Agents,
sd
CIRCULAR QUAY EAST, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
CATALOGUES (ILLUSTRATED) POST FREE ON APPLICATION.
fsd
Are you after the “bier money”? Then grow a moustache and look
manly. Get rid of that boyish look by using
CAPILLARINE
This is a moustache-grower that cannot fail if the directions are
followed. It has a 30 Years’ record of success. Get it to-day.
PRICE 10/6 JAR, Post Free.
The C. & A. MOUSTACHE TRAINER, worn at night, shapes the moustache.
2/6, 3/6, 5/6 Post Free.
Craig &. AitKen,
654 George Street, Sydney.
Established 30 Years.
The First Successful Self-Filling Fountain Pen.
Always the Leader, Without a Peer.
fsd
"THE A.A.” AUTOMATIC SELF-FIILING FOUNTAIN PEN
is the pen for which there is no substitute. Its self-filling method
is exclusive. It is filled by simply twisting the button, holding
the pen point in the ink and, by a reverse twist, the pen is filled.
As the ink is held in a durable reservoir, the pen cannot leak.
No soiling of fingers or any annoying “filler" necessary to keep
“The A.A.” ready for service.
Fitted with i4kt. gold pens, any style or size, with plain,
chased or mottled holders, or mounted in sterling silver filigree,
gold filled and mother of pearl. They are for sale at all shops.
The cut herein shows the newly patented “ A.A.’’ Clip attached to the
cap of the pen. It excels by far any fountain pen clip yet produced,
holds perfectly firm, and can be attached almost instantly.
If you cannot secure “ The A.A.” Automatic Self-Filli* l ?
Fountain Pen with the “ A.A.” Clip at your store, write for prices to
RYAN, LEWIS (SI CO. Pty., Ltd.,
521 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sole Agents for Australasia and New Zealand of the
ARTHUR A. WATERMAN COMPANY, New York, U.S.A.
NOT CONNECTED WITH THE L. E. WATERMAN CO.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on MSS. No liability is
undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted,
whether sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will
be returned unless stamps accompany.
A. Lutheran : A reply on February 22 to
a comment on August 29 is too gradual to get into
print here. .. .P.D.: (1) No ; know of nothing satis-
factory short of an operation. (2) Certainly there
are good results from it in suitable cases. .. .L.S.:
Ask your local news-agent... .J. 8.: “Bill Jinks”
was republished in the Austral Edition of Marcus
Clarke’s works (1890). The volume is, however,
scarce... .G.L.McC. : “Machete” (B. 16/1/’l3) has
confused Soren Christensen, a Dane known as “Ger-
man Harry,” with Oscar Soelberg, formerly in busi-
ness at Samarai (Papua). It was Soelberg who
tripped to Norway, and thence helped to sail the
Yiking ship to the Chicago Exhibition—.G.V.W.:
Did you write the Maori story as printed, or did
you re-write it and forward it as original ?
Haeremai: If, as you say, you are “bursting with
latent literary talent” you’d better send along more
substantial proof than that yarn about Rex....
Woodchopper: If you must know, the Editor is a sor,
of Presbyterian and his Associate is a sort of Con-
gregationalist. .. . Scrapiron: Throws no fresh light
on the subject....Gunyah: Too good to lose alto-
gether ; so here goes for some of it:—
He’d started with a drovers’ camp.
We were shorthanded and the boss
Said he’d try the pummy grant.
He looked well upon a hoss.
The cattle were a wild mob.
At the second night’s camp out
We put poor chummy on to watch
With Bob the boy, a lazy lout.
Bob always tired said look here old man
I’ve got an awful head,
If you don’t mind being on your own
I’ll have a snooze in bed.
Chummy crept up to the boss’s tent.
I can’t see that white cow, he said.
Go to the devil you silly fool
Growled the boss as he turned in bed.
In half an hour he came and cried —
Boss the baldy steer has gone;
The boss woke up and swore then sighed
Then slipped his moleskins on.
Good Lord, he cried in anger wild,
Where has the herd gone you cur?
Oh ! they rushed about an hour ago
But I thought I’d break it gently sir.
. ...D.L.M.: Joe Cook was leader of the N.S.W.
Labor party in 1891, or thereabouts. Reid coaxed
him away with the Postmaster-Generalship... .K.N.:
“For your consideration.” That was an unfortunate
way of putting it. The last thing the hifalutin
“Honor the Brave!” outburst wants is calm, cold
consideration. If it gets that it is lost. Yours is
lost Lothaire: Good shot; but hardly sharp-
pointed enough for that sort of thing... .Moanee: It
was a good story before the edges were worn off it
in the reign of Queen Victoria or Anne, we forget
which.... Dibs: Not badly done, but the playlet is
off our beat.... J.C.M.: For the thousandth time,
pars, are not acknowledged in this column. Space
simply isn’t available to even mention one-twentieth
of them. ... Sloper: Received, “Wife’s Lament.” The
lady seems to have had a rotten time, and we’re
sorry. Still, worse things might have happened to
her. A less considerate husband, for instance, might
have sent his poem to her instead of to us
W. Keith: Dunno ; it was before our time Belle-
rive: It lacks a bleeding landlord, but no matter: —
HIGH RENTS IN MELB.
What will become of the poor of Melb.
High rents they’ve got to pay
The Landlords throughout the suburbs
Have all their grasping way
Cribs are raised from Twelve and Sixpence
To fifteen shillings per Week
If rents are raised much higher
There’ll be camps on the merry creek
High rent for a house in Melbourne
No matter how old or rough
God grant that an alteration
Will break the rent boom up.
Pariah: Idea isn’t very new, and you have
fallen into an awkward metre. .. . R.M.A.: Sorry none
of them useable here. Theme is fresh and inspiring,
but the treatment is fairly rough throughout
W.H.H.: Shot the bird with the basket Bob:
Tenderly mechanical verse. You mean well, but we
see you, the engineer poet, weeping bitterly into the
gleaming machinery while you hang over it with
your oilcan.... Manin: Too strained.... Hireling: Too
late! The target is one of the sort that is shot at
by at least nine marksmen the moment it appears.
. ...R.M.C.: Some real stuff in it, but it is sadly
knocked about... .H.W.K. (W.A.) : Rather a dull
medley... .Hee K.: “Rubaiyat” does not make a
strong appeal.... Rager: Firmly rejected Josh:
Neither suitable... .Richard G.: No chance
A.E.8.W.: N.S.F. (that is to say—Not Sufficient
Finish).... Gecko: Poem is afflicted with spasms.
... .H.V.C.W.: Very jumbled James M.: Your two
most notable statements are that “ability to stand
Polar temperature is not a shining quality for a
Polar expeditionist.” and that Oates must have been
a first-class man for the work, else Scott wouldn’t
have taken him. The first statement is obvious folly.
The second simply amounts to the theory that no
leader ever selects the wrong follower. Which means
that every leader is the right kind of leader....
Young Australian: Something on that topic is already
in type. But you’ve got ideas. Let’s hear from
you again.... Queen Bee: Regret unsuitable....
Nemo: Becke’s first Bulletin yarn was printed in
May, 1893. He signed “Louis B.” in those days....
Nelson F.: Come in here and be happy:—
TO THE OFT-REJECTED.
No scented hyacinths bedeck the road,
O’er which you hump your oft-rejected load;
No violets strew your path ; no angels sing
When to The Bulletin your verse you briDg.
I feel as one who by experience knows
How sad the fruits of unaccepted Prose.
’Tis sad indeed, and makes one broken hearted,
To see his name amopgst the “also started.”
The Chief: As pointless as lib. of butter at the end
of a heated argument... .Mac: Johnson disapproves of
whisky. Do you think that Johnson should there-
fore refuse to carry whisky on the N.S.W. railways?
Or that any Socialistic Labor paper should refuse to
advertise any private person’s business? If you don’t
think so, don’t see why you should demand that
The Bulletin should drop all patent medicine advts.
because it believes that some patent medicines are
frauds. It believes some of its subscribers are
frauds, too. But it will go on supplying them till
further notice. .. .Wallaby: Sorry to say that it is
merely poor doggerel.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CONTRIBUTORS.
5.0. R.: Very unfinished looking. The two men
don’t even cast a shadow... .J.W.G.: Neither ori-
ginal, interesting or artistic... .P.T.: There may be
some things you can draw, but a Japanese artist
isn’t one of them....D. Bon: “Hop” has been there
already W.T.: Cow-bike jest badly conceived and
ill-drawn F.L.: Pointless trifle. The girl is read-
ing a novel entitled “Between Two Thieves. And
she is sitting between two apparently respectable men
who aren’t visibly stealing anything.. ..W. Kline:
No hope or prospect whatsoever... .L.C.1.: But why
should the rather wooden-looking handmaiden want
the stout, slouchy person to go to the South Pole t
“Premo” : I see Dr. Wilbur Chapman, of
the Chapzander Co., is responsible for a
book entitled “The Personal Touch.” It
should prove very helpful to those who, like
myself, desire further knowledge in the noble
art of borrowing.


Public Opinion and
Beale HigH-grade Pianos.
I lie great majority of our Pianos are sold on the personal recommendation of users, and we are constantly receiving letters from our
customers praising the Beale High-Grade Pianos. Our instruments are in use in every part of Australia; in New Zealand, Fiji, Samoa, New
Caledonia, Mauritius, South Africa, India, and on the Continent of Europe; and everywhere they give the same unbounded satisfaction.
Below we give a few (greatly condensed) extracts from unsolicited testimonials from buyers of Beale High-Grade Pianos.
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Mr. FRED L. GOODMAN, Mascotte, Hardy
Street, Ashfield:—
“Splendid, and the tone is perfect. Pro-
fessional musicians have highly commended
it. You are quite at liberty to refer any in-
tending purchaser, desirous of independent
testimony, to me.”
Mr. WALTER BAXTER, Sen., Albert Street,
Wickham:—
“Entire satisfaction. Keeping up its splen-
did reputation.”
Mr. RAYMOND WALKER, Coolalie:—
“Very pleased with piano in every way.
Neighbors admire very much.”
Mrs. T. A. HAYNES, Alandale, Cockamid-
gera:—
“Very much pleased with piano. Entire
satisfaction in every way.”
Mr. F. WELLS, Wattamolla, Berry:—
“Piano gives every satisfaction. Neighbors
and friends all speak of it in the highest
terms.”
Mr. F. A. McGINLEY, Sale Street, Orange:—
“May mention that we are thoroughly
pleased with the instrument. Beautiful rich
tone.”
The PRINCIPAL, Cook’s Hill Girls’ Superior
Public School, Newcastle: —
“The two Upright Grand Pianos supplied
to the school four years ago have been in con-
stant use. They have given entire satisfac-
tion, and are well adapted for school pur-
poses. The tone is sweet and mellow, and the
pitch is fully maintained, necessitating little
attention in the way of tuning.”
Mrs. GRACE E. BROOKS, Yetman, via In-
verell: —
“Very pleased with the piano. Splendid in-
strument, with a lovely tone.”
Mr. FRANK BELFORD, Hon. Sec. Comboyne
Union Hall Trustees, Comboyne:—
“Pleased to say piano purchased from you
for the hall is giving every satisfaction.”
QUEENSLAND.
Mr. N. GOODFELLOW, Mount View, Mus-
grave Road, Red Hill: —
“Very pleased with the piano. Tone is ex-
cellent, and remains in tune wonderfully
well.”
Mrs. M. M. MARKS, Clifton Station, Mor-
ven:—
“Piano is excellent, and has stood this
climate exceptionally well. Has only needed
tuning once since 1 got it.”
Mr. J. PIDGEON, Klienton, Crow’s Nest line,
via Toowoomba:—
“Should like to say that I am very pleased
with the piano. Tone is really beautiful, and
seems to improve with use.”
Mrs. M. CARTER, Fernberg Road, Rasalie:—
“Satisfied with the piano in every way.”
Dr. L. M. McKILLOP, Blackall (Q.)
“It is undoubtedly a magnificent instru-
ment, and your firm is to be congratulated
upon being able to turn out such splendid
work.”
Mr. W. H. SIMPSON, Huelva, Gilliatt:—
“Although this is a very trying climate for
pianos, my Beale is as good as the day it
arrived.”
VICTORIA.
Mr. J. H. BAYNE, Carnavon Street, Auburn:
“A superb instrument with a magnificent
tone. Friends admire it greatly ”
Miss GLADYS WAITE, Norong, via Ruther-
glen:—
“The piano has given me entire satisfac-
tion.”
Mrs. G. M. GOULD, Thomson Street, Hamil-
ton :
“Will never cease recommending your
pianos, as I think so highly of them. Mine
has given nothing but satisfaction.”
Miss L. LOVERING, State School, Kerang:—
“Thoroughly satisfied with the instrument.”
Mr. J. H. ROGERS, Woolocot Street, Co-
burg :
“Must say that everyone who has been to
my place has nothing but praise for the
piano.”
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Mr. H. J. ARMITAGE, Public School, Hough-
ton
“Piano, which I have had for three years,
has been in constant use, and tone is as good
as when I got it. Pianists often remark on
its great purity of tone,”
Mrs. H. WALKER, Wandilo, Mount Gambier:
“Must express my satisfaction with your
beautiful, sweet-toned instrument.”
Mr, JOHN 0. WHITEMORE, Dunoon, Victor
Harbor :
“Much pleased with the instrument in
every way, and gratified with the opinions of
several friends who are professional musi-
cians.”
Mrs. ROSE A. HUNTER, Fairview, Eu-
dunda:—
“May say that I am more than pleased
with the piano.”
Mr. WILLIAM J. HOCKING, Kingston:—
“Everyone agrees that it is a splendid in-
strument.”
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Mr. G. A. BEECK, Katanning:—
“Self and family are more than pleased
with the Beale High-grade Piano.”
Mr. J. A. MILLS. York :
“Quite satisfied with piano in every way.”
Mrs. C. POWELL, Linden Villa, Stirling
Street, Perth: —
“There is not a better instrument in Perth.”
Mr. T. WARD, Wagin, AVestern Australia: —-
“Greatly satisfied in every respect.”
Mr. AV. H. BROAVN, Kalgoorlie:—
“A T ery pleased with the instrument. Much
better than I expected.”
TASMANIA 8 NEW ZEALAND.
Mr. C. J. HINE, 28 Hillside Crescent, Laun-
ceston :
“Instrument is all that could be desired.”
Mrs. J. ANDERSON, 19 Burnett Street,
Hobart: —
“Can highly recommend to anyone re-
quiring a first-class piano.”
Mrs. J. HARVEY. Hamilton:—
“Excellent piano. Many have expressed
their delight at hearing an instrument with
so mellow a tone.”
Mr. A. O. AVOODS, Liverpool Street, Hobart:
“Tone is even better than when we first got
it. Can recommend strongly.”
Mr. EDMUND ANSCOMBE, 134 Princess
Street, Dunedin, New Zealand: —
“All who have tried it have expressed
themselves as being delighted with its beau-
tiful tone and appearance.”
We have literally thousands more
such testimonials, from almost every
part of the world. The immense suc-
cess attained by the Beale Pianos is
due solely to their high-grade quality.
From the very first we have given our
utmost endeavor to turn out only thor-
oughly reliable, soundly constructed
pianos, embodying the very best musi-
cal qualities. We have created a won-
derful factory organisation, and we
pay the best brains and the best skill,
so as to ensure a perfect result. We
realise that an Australian-made piano
is subjected to much closer scrutiny
in Australia than any imported piano,
and therefore we make —we are
compelled to make —our pianos much
better than those of our competitors.
At the same time,, by making pianos
in Australia, we are in the position to
make them much better suited to Aus-
tralian conditions. Any competent
cabinetmaker will tell you that timber
seasoned in the cold, damp climate of
Europe and America cannot be ex-
pected to withstand Australian ex-
tremes of dry heat as well as timber
which is seasoned in this climate. This
is a most important point in piano-
making, and is one good reason why
so many foreign pianos develop cracked
sounding-boards, split tuning-systems
and faulty casework soon after arrival
in this country. But no man can say
he ever saw a Beale piano with a
cracked sounding-board. We abso-
lutely guarantee that the sounding-
boards of Beale Pianos will never
crack in any climate, because our spe-
cial system of construction renders
cracking an impossibility, a* the same
time that it greatly enhances the tonal
qualities of the instrument. Beale
Pianos contain the only practical steel
tuning-system in the world —so there
can be no question of splitting of the
wrest-plank. And then our patented
system of cross-plied woodwork en-
sures permanence for the outside case
of the pianos.
Be sure of this: the better musician you are, the more you will delight in a Beale High Grade Piano.
We have always on hand a number of good second-hand pianos, taken in part payment of Beale Pianos.
Call and inspect the Beale Pianos now. Inspection does not put you under any obligation whatever,
whether you purchase.
If you cannot call, write for Catalogue, which we will be pleased to send post free.
You suit yourself entirely as
BEALE CO. LTD.
MAKERS OF _ _
Q£A L E HIGH-GRADE PIA. N O S
«The Utmost Care in the Smallest Details.*'
CARL VADER PIANOS.
Prices: £49, 55, 60, 65. 70,
75, 80, 85, 95, 100, 115, 150, and 240 Guineas.
378 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY (3 Doors from G.P.0.)
127 RUNDLE ST., ADELAIDE, S.A.
107 SWANSTON ST., MELBOURNE
839 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.
and ONLY Address in BRISBANE.
90-92 QUEEN ST., opp. Pike Bros., our new
Branch Offices at Newcastle, Bathurst, Orange, Wagga and Broken Hill, N.S.W.;
Maryborough, Rockhampton, Mackay and Townsville, Queensland; Kalgoorlie, W.A
„ PVFRYWHERE WRITE FOR CATALOGUE. 25 YEARS’ GUARANTEE.
travellers everywhere. r| gs _ _ T r A f ALGA R ST., A NN A ND A LE, SYDNEY.
CASH or S TERMS. REPAIRS and TUNING. Save Importers' Profits by Buying Direct from the Manufacturers.


j^SUINDEBS
SYDNEYS LEADING JEWELLER
NEW JEWELLERY DESIGNS.
CHOICE EXCLUSIVE
LOW PRICED.
251-
„«.MWISQ A
ft
Lady’s Solid Silver, Hunting
Keyless, LEVER WATCH, f
plate, full jewelled, patent ad-
justed balance, 25/- Higher
grade, 35/-, £2, £2/10/-,
£3/10/- Solid Gold, £3,
£3/10/-, £4, £5, £<».
301-
£5.
18ct. GOLD, set 5
pure, double-cut
Diamonds.
£6/10/-
18ct. GOLD, set fi
Diamonds, 6 Ru-
bies sapphires or
Olivines.
20/-
9ct. GOLD, set Pearls and Rubies, Garnets or
Amethysts.
30 1-
&
%
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting KEYLESS
LEVER, non-magnetic, full jewelled,
patent time spring, compensation balance,
dust-proof cases, 30/- Extra jewelled,
35/-, £2, £2/10 £3, up to £lO.
Rolled Gold, 55/-, £4/4/-, £5/5/-
Solid Gold, £6/10/-, £7/10/- up.
We Pay Postage
oi\ all Jewellery
35 1-
&
£22/10/-
15ct. GOLD, set Dia
monds and Pearls.
£3/10/-
18ct. GOLD, set
Diamonds, Rubies
or Sapphires.
25/-
9ct. GOLD, set Pearls
and Amethysts.
l\ w
'JSTJT'
15ct. GOLD
NECKLACE, set
Diamonds and
Tourmalines,
£l5.
15ct. Gold NECK
LACE, set Dia
monds and Aqua
marines, £l5.
20/-
9ct. GOLD, richly en-
graved ; 15ct., 35/-
357-
Solid GOLD PRESENTA-
TION LINKS, hand-made,
richly engraved, any in-
itials. Extra quality,
50/-. 18ct. Gold, £3.
rr^r-
o\y
£2
/01/Z3:
Solid Silver Patent Expanding LEVER AVATCH BRACE-
LET, accurate, reliable. Solid Gold, £5, £5/10/-
£6/10/-, £7/10/-
£lO/10/-
15ct. GOLD, set Dia-
monds and ltubies,
£lO.
18et. GOLD, set 3
pure, double-cut
Diamonds.
25/-
9et. GOLD, set
Pearls and Ame-
thysts or Garents.
£l2/10/-
18ct. GOLD, set
pure, double-cui
Diamonds.
£lO.
18ct. GOLD, set
pure, double-cut
Diamonds.
S=*
lady’s Black, Open Face
KEYLESS WATCH,
strong 1 , accurate, 8/6.
Higher grade, 10/-"
15/-, 20/-, 25/- Sil-
ver, 25/., 35/-, £2.
Solid Gold, £2.
8/6
10/-
22/0.
9et. GOLD, set Pearls and Colored Stones,
or all Pearls.
We send our
Jewellery
Catalogue
FREE.
15/-
Gent.’s Nickel Open Face KEYLESS
LEVER, full jewelled, patent adjusted
balance, non-magnetic time spring, dust
and water proof cases, 15/- Higher
Grade, 25/-, 30/-. Solid Silver, £2.
20/-
807-817 GEORGE STREET, Opp. Railway Station, SYDNEY.
wmm
ik
£%
A cool
shave with a
stropped
blade.
You don’t throw Auto Strop
blades away —
you strop them —and they last.
Simpler, too, than changing a blade —takes only
12 seconds to strop ; and the perfectly sharp
stropped blade gives a perfect shave —you can-
not strop it wrongly.
The effect of buying a self-stropping razor is to obtain shaving
satisfaction for a lifetime.
The makers of the Auto Strop rely on your recommendations.
The effect of buying a no-stropping razor is to be kept as a
“ tied house ” for blade renewals.
The makers of such razors rely on the profits of their blade-
renewal business.
The Auto Strop is the only self-stropping razor. Enough said.
Auto&irop
Read this Auditors * Certificate :
“We have examined the Books of the Auto Strop Safety Razor Company,
Limited, from the commencement of the Company’s business to the 30th
September, 1912, and certify that during the year ended that date the number
of renewal blades sold was on the average less than six blades for every razor
sold during the period prior to the above-mentioned year.”
(Signed) BLAKEMORE & CO.,
Nov. noth, 1912. 6, Old Jewry, London, E.C.
Standard Set, comprising razor, strop, and 12 improved
rust-proof "Valet” blades, in handsome case (as illustrated).
Price in Australia - - 22/6
Price in New Zealand - 257-
Sol e Depot for Australasia :
PARTRIDGE—ABERCROMBY, Ltd.,
York Chambers, Market Street, Sydney.


at Easter
5^
K
-r
“If it isn’t an Eastman,
it isn’t a Kodak.”
What better way of keeping a record of your Easter holidays than by
making a picture-story with a Brownie or Kodak Camera ?
Not everybody would be interested in diary notes, but who can resist
the fascination of Kodak snapshots charming little snatches of
scenic beauties, characteristic portraits of your companions in their
happiest moods, photographs of unusual things or happenings —such as
the record fish which will prove your yarn no fish story, a surf rescue,
bush fire, horse race or any other of a thousand and one incidents that
would make your picture-story a permanent record of one of the jolliest
occasions of your life.
You can learn to use a Brownie or Kodak Camera in a few minutes —
previous experience is not necessary, no dark-room is needed, and we
will instruct you free of charge.
Call and let us demonstrate the simplicity of Kodak Photography.
There are Brownie Cameras from 5/= to 50/=, Kodak Cameras from
Illustrated Catalogue free on request.
21
These are two popular models :
Vest Pocket Kodak 301-
The Vest Pocket Kodak is so small that it will slip easily into the waistcoat pocket;
so simple that the novice can make capital little pictures with it at the first
attempt; so efficient that the most experienced amateur will find pleasure in its
use.
It is fitted with a carefully selected Lens. Ball-bearing Shutter, Brilliant Rever-
sible Finder and Auto-time Scale. Takes pictures lfin. x 2lin. Price, 30s.
No. 3a Folding Pocket Kodak —90/-
This is the most popular of all Cameras, and takes the full-size postcard picture,
d£in. x 51in.
Its equipment includes double Rapid Rectilinear Lens, Kodak Ball-bearing Shutter,
Automatic Focussing Lock. Brilliant Reversible Finder and Tripod Sockets.
Covered with fine quality, black seal-grained leather, nickelled fittings. Top-coat
pocket size. Price, £4 10s.
KODAK (Australasia)
Incorporating Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd.
SYDNEY: 370 George Street.
MELBOURNE: “The Block,” 284 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE: 37 Bundle Street.
BRISBANE: 78-80 Queen Street.
TOOWOOMBA : Ruthven Street.
TOWNSVILLE: Flinders Street.
BROKEN HILL: 346 Argent Street.
AUCKLAND : 3 Lome Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z. : 6 Mercer Street.
m
M
I
m
*
V
V
K.
k-mj
m
M
(MS (Df9.it. X,i. A
Calc-ltt*. 1633./ r » t \
KRUSE’S V->-
LUID MAGKtfSIA
ki mtt.il tV» oalr Me<T»i «• r 1 f
laM.-t4aK.fi i * /
l^^i»»daw£smi«S2»»iiv '•„ I
ktM Tiiomr uaiv.ul. At i ;■■ • - |
'rut np»^a«7l» ail u» .'trc'*
a»M»:tevn«Xx.'-s , .t:sa IW4-7 - •■**■ |
sstyESfreciS
iMarttSssa
MH.airtlWW & 53, «iew*
w
more
A.
r ▼
FLUID
il V VjJ LjoU-'A'CI) f
U-D^D)®5TJaV.'
:. j'Armn^ 1 c.
. ' ( i-i i r
'AvfcL iUOOC ilit-tlKil-.
Get NEW EDISON
Records for Your Old
Ones before March 31
THE Edison Reco.rd Exchange Plan positively closes
in all parts of Australasia on March 31. If you
wish to: secure new Amberol Records for your old,
disused, worn and defective Edison Records of any kind
you must act promptly.
Go through your collection to-day, gather together all the
Records you don’t want, take them along to any author-
ised Edison dealer, and he will exchange them for you
for new Edison Amberol Records, making an allowance
for the Records returned, as follows: —
Threepence (3d.) for one old
Edison Standard Record.
Fourpence (4d.) for one old
Edison Amberol Record.
The only condition appertaining to this offer is that
one Edison Amberol Record he purchased for each old
Record returned.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD,
(Wholesale only), Dept. 8., 364*372 Kent Street, Sydney.


STERLING QUALITIES
The superiority of our goods lies not only in the wide range of choice, not only
in the exquisite designs and skilful workmanship , but especially in their
wonderful lasting qualities.
Our famous FIRST COST PRICES bring these beautiful goods within
the range of the moderate income.
No. 262.—9 ct. GOLD
MALTESE CROSS,
21/-
Smaller size,
02841. —Pearl and Tourmaline Set, 9ct. GOLD
BROOCH,
25/-
J7B73.—Pearl Set 15et. Gold and 9ct.
GOLD SAFETY PIN BROOCH,
0354.—Exquisite 9ct.
GOLD PENDANT, set
with Pink and Green
Tourmalines,
C 7007. —9ct. GOLD BROOCH, s'-
with fine Amethyst and Pearls,
21/-
WE PAY POSTAGE
ON ALL GOODS TO
ANY ADDRESS.
1907. —Pearl and Ame-
thyst Set 9ct. GOLD
PENDANT,
£.l/17/0
15ct. Gold, Set Fine
Pearls and Pink Tour-
malines,
0340.—9 ct. GOLD BROOCH, set with
Fine Garnet,
OUR NEW ART
CATALOGUE SENT
POST FREE on request
STEWART DAWSON & CO
(AUSTRALIA) LTD.,
Strand Corner, 412 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
“THE CAMP” REXOPHONE.
The Perfection of Faithful Reproduction.
We claim, positively, that
THE CAMP Rexophone is abso-
lutely unequalled in value at
the price—£3. We say further
that it possesses special indi-
vidual merits which lift it
beyond the competition of
similar-priced machines.
No Talking Machine with
Swiss worm-gear Motor has
ever been offered at such a low
price as “The Camp.”
Note some “Camp” features:
Handsome, Solid, Plain Oak
Cabinet; Swiss Worm-gear Mo-
tor, playing two records with
one winding; Absolutely noise-
less working; Patent One-piece
Seamless Horn, with 18-inch
Bell, insuring absence of the
least jarring; Horn beautifully
colored and shaded; all visible
metal parts nickel-plated;
Rexophone “Model A” Sound
Box—the loudest and clearest
made.
fsd
£3
The mechanical excellence of “THE CAMP,” as of all the ‘Rexophone
Group, has made it famous as a machine which gives lasting satisfaction. Ihe
life-like fidelity of the reproduction means that the actual, original performance is
repeated, at a moment’s notice, in your presence.
Also
"THE BITE,” ST/6; "THE DOVER,” £4/10/-; “THE KENT,” £6;
"THE TORK,” £8; “THE SYD,” 70/-.
We stock records of all the popular singers, Instrumental Solos and Duets,
Band Selections. Sacred Vocal Selections, etc., and will furnish Catalogues of
Records on receipt of postcard.
Inquire for them from your
Storekeeper, or write to us
for Catalogue.
STOREKEEPERS ARE IN-
VITED TO SEND FOR
TRADE LISTS.
Jacßson & Macdonald,
457 KENT STREET, Corner Druitt Street, SYDNEY.
€
■
y vf u XXtiM
II
*
>-P
d
A
NO need to take the trip to Colombo
in June. Come up to Brisbane for
■ the Cup Carnival instead. This is
the great ft*te week of the North. All the
city is on holiday. The days are just de-
lightful—cook perfumed, quiet nights, with
the w T inds sighing through the feathery paim
trees, the hibiscus all blooming, a riot of
scarlet, the frangipanni blossoms weighing
the airs with their eastern scent.
Make this trip and you’ll never regret it.
Full particulars from
C. DYSON-HOLLAND,
Sec. Q.T.C.,
Creek Street,
BRISBANE.
Pre-eminent
as the Queen of Dress Fabrics Is the
LOUIS
VELVETEEN,
with all its charming lustrous
finish; draping exquisitely to suit
the clinging fashions of the day—
yet sold at a price within the
reach of all.
00 NOT TOLERATE A SUBSTITUTE.
Every Yard you buy
should be stamped L*o - IH‘S
f
OSTRICH PLUnES
PROM OUR FAMOUS FARMS IN SOUTH AFRICA.
BLACK, WHITE, CREAM, GREY, NATURAL, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH WHITE (Length, 15 inches).
TW« style of Ostrich Feather is very fashionable.
10/6
POST FREE
to any address.
The Feathers we offer you cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house. They are the Best Value in
Australia. Write to-day. Send Postal Notes or Money Order
payable to John Miller. Illustrated Catalogues Post Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
_ _ 7
Corner of Strand
Pitt-street, Sydney, i
[Mention Thb Bullitt*.]
Also at Oornor of Bourke and Swanston Streets, MELBOURNE. I
The Massey Muddle in Maoriland.
The Massey Government in Maoriland is
tangled in the intricacies of a land deal from
which it may not be able to free itself with-
out earning the contempt of John Smith,
a substance which reveals itself at elections
in the form of the Boot. The last Tory
Government in M.L. ruined itself, or at ?fny
rate completed its ruin, through its methods
of handling the public estate, and although
Massey has branded the present crowd in
office with the large word “Reform,” its ideas
on the land question are much the same as
those held by Atkinson and Hall of last
century. In 1907 the Ward Government,
pressed by the Tories on the one hand and
the freehold advocates of its own following
on the other, legislated to permit holders of
leases-in-perpetuity to acquire the freehold,
As the lease-in-perpetuity was for. 999 years
without revaluation, nobody really cared
what was done with the thing as long as it
was vnt rid of. All the same, Ward’s crowd
thought it wise to put a definite clause in
the Bill making it clear that the person who
thus converted his leasehold ihto freehold
was only buying the surface, and that all
minerals below the surface were still the
property of the State. Massey swept this
clause out in his legislation of last session.
Now the party suddenly discovers that the
new arrangement is loaded in fact, it is
double-barrelled, and appears as if it might
°?i at j both ends. Gavin Brighton, of
Southland, held leases-in-perpetuity, one of
which, consisting of 1(3 acres and estimated
brined coal in it to the value
le P u^ c bused for £47. The fame of
the deed spread throughout the country and
alarmed the people in office, so that when
Brighton asked for the freehold of two
more coal-bearing blocks the Land Board,
acting under instructions, hung the mattei
up on the nail of procrastination until it
should be found in which way the cat
jumped or something. It was a burning and
a shining cat, and has up to date jumped in
well every direction. The .rown
, tfiC p m M ellington, by working overtime,
has found out that Brighton s claims can-
not go beyond the rights actually set ortl
in. his lease, and that his title is to the sur-
face value only, which seems like a. desperate
effort on the part of a distracted .1 listry
to advertise that it t be responsible for
its own debts. On the other hand, lawyer
T. F. Martin, when chased by the Opposi-
tion for an opinion, is absolutely certain that
freehold means freehold, and that Brigh-
ton’s purchase includes every blessed thing
right to the centre of the earth. On the top
of all this comes word that Brighton him-
self will institute proceedings at the next
sitting of the Supreme Court to compel the
Lands Department to give him the freehold
of the two sections for which his applica-
tion has not vet been granted. And on the
top of everything comes the further word
that Brighton does not want to make any-
thing out of the transaction foT himself, but
will use the freeholds, when obtained, in ac-
cordance with his “nrincipigs as a Social-
ist.” What his principles as a Socialist may
be he doesn’t explain. Meanwhile Massey
smiles the smile of cheerful rage, nr.d wishes
with all his stomach that he had left that
dangerous and unhappy beast called lease-
In-perpetuity alone. It has proved to be a
sleeping serpent, and when you wake up
an y month or section of a serpent 990
years long, and the whole vast animal turns
I'ound and looks at you, it is a hair-raising
experience.
The raiding of a baccarat club in London
at Christmas time brought some interest-
ing facts and figures to light. Twenty men
and women or “good social position” were
found on the premises. Counters lying on
the table and held in reserve represented;
£lO,OOO. A number of letters which were
seized had brought cheques for losses run-
ning as high as £l2OO and £l5OO, and the'
bank book of the club proprietor showed that;
he had paid £9OOO, as well as a dishonored
.cheque for £BOO, into his account within five'
weeks. This was only a matinge gaming
club, where the pigeons were in the habit of
dropping in to lose their money before din-
ner, and the heaviest losers, seemingly, were
the lady members.
«g t . Kilda-ite” : Things move with great
speed in Melbourne. Only three years ago
t j le R a ii W ays standing committee reported
j G f avor 0 f the extension of the Sandring-
ham line t 0 Beaumaris, but imposed the
con< jition that the residents should find the
j aud — a con dition frequently made with re-
gard t 0 cockspur country lines. The people,
however, who are chiefly interested in the
construction 0 f a line to Beaumaris are the
Melbourne residents who go holiday-making
there. Year after year the awful cars of
the Beaumaris Tram Co. attempt to carry
the holiday traffic. Last Anniversary day
t j ie co m ade a special effort to cope with the
crowds> and actually ran three cars an hour
w ijil e the railways were disgorging their
pac i ced masses of humanity at Sandringham
ever y 15 minutes. Meanwhile, the Govern-
ment j s haggling with the local landowner
tQ ge j. hi m to surrender enough ground for
the cons truction of a line in which he has
on jv a languid interest, and profitable State
business and public convenience are alike
jg Qored . The trail of Tait is still over the
Department, and it isn’t a wholesome trail,
Qr even a dece nt one, but the sort of mark
that m igßt be made by a very tired reptile
when on its way to a i una tic asylum,
Victoria is thinking, and none too soon,
about a re-arrangement of the boundaries of
its State constituencies. They were last
fixed up by Captain Cook, assisted by the
bunyip, and in course of time the old order
of things has become antiquated. Thus out
of 65 constituencies there are eight with less
than 7000 electors and seven with more than
IS.OOO. The smallest has 5793 electors,
and the largest has 20,610. The discrep-
ancies go according to no discoverable rule,
Melbourne City has 7726 voters, while Haw-
thorn, a tram-ride away, has nearly 21,000.
On the other hand, the peaceful country dis-
trict of Walhalla has less than 6000 consti-
tuents, while the dead-slow country district
of Mornington has nearly 13,000. It is all
laziness, neglect and accident.


wmsivr
. 7-.X/1
&
.■it
gym.. v. ■ aw*;
**
■jrsm
Sr'. ~Owi*> #*."/V;
r ?9H
I itffc
r-
r v \
fe\-../%
ffcNde
tiy-Sr mi t***** - ~ • •
fn
ft
t>P
s
~ -Jj
Mill
HT4
•:;i »
■i y ■ iiKi
mu
,•■ >
M
?*m*>
m
Cv'A J Pl%sos£jlfc
su»- S*a
CT»S
SupKueo
v/’s
ifl*s
Housecfeomhohs
i rvtvTF'l ilrn" TiTTi
rra
wiar..*
RTHORNC &SON3.LIMITEO
Gr«w*ock D»3tiu£ry r*
: : ,
< r ;i"
an
UMlfotrtt TmurHju IOffPQH ,£.C
l»V
ItxvwC
<fc.V
1 ■
mmmmm
«<*>
<>C /Ai. LlOV>
S&faß
t&4
s«»s*tiji tw < • >«t ***
Cl N
<4? |si
*1
ini.mii
:t j .
ixS#-*
e J
■i
r/f
xz-ai
B
iiui?
HiHii
fii?) tH} h I}J s}i t r*‘‘j>r£s l>!
J& >.Hh mm*
s -
mm
fjyfwn
J J7VV7*I
THORNE'S WHISKY
fears no competitor.
When first pro-
duced, over 80 years ago,
it quickly fought its way
into high public favor.
By unflinching adherence
to the high standard
which they set, the
manufacturers have
maintained this fine
Glenlivet spirit
.Incomparable


HORSESHOE
** SALMON
Horseshoe Salmon is canned immediately
from freshly caught, selected fish. This rapid
handling means the retention of the full natural
flavor and the maintenance of the fish in firm
and palatable condition.
All the Excellence of the Fresh Fish.
AN EPILEPTIC FIT.
A famous London physician, who for years
made a study of this disease, has, after a number of
experiments, found a prescription which affords re-
lief in almost a marvellous manner. This has been
put on the market by Mr. I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceu-
tical Chemist, of Belfast, under the name of
“Ozerine,” and the number of unsolicited testimonials
received speak well for its efficiency as a remedy
against this appalling disease. Your chemist can
easily get it for you.*
When Byron asked “Who would not be a boy?” he
was certainly not thinking of those men who find
themselves handicapped by a boyish appearance in
their efforts to climb the ladder of success. As a
rule, it is always the man with the strong, manly
face who is selected to fill a responsible position.
And yet he may be no better equipped in mind for
the big job than the “beardless youth.” The surest
way out for the man thus baulked is to grow a
moustache. This can easily be done by the use of
Capillarine, which has a 30 years’ record of success.
This preparation is sold by the well-known firm of
Craig and Aitken, 654 George Street, Sydney, at the
reasonable price of 10s. 6d. a jar, post free.*
Missing Friends.
K / ARY WARD.—lnformation is required as to the
11 whereabouts of MARY WARD, wife of WIL-
LIAM WARD, formerly of Redfern, Sydney, N.S.W.,
Engineer, or her husband or children, who will hear
something to their advantage by applying to the
Solicitor of The Public Trust Office, Wellington, New
Zealand,
fIT 1 5
fiWRITTE.
/fnnnty's
//THE FOUhTA\t\
3
xfK
\\\m
COocalA
y ol'
ii\ 1
< i ,t P
c\sKior\
F
' < C)r;te~
r> for
prvrveys
ofalcigue
THIS applies to men, as well
as women, and as our new
Autumn and Winter Cata-
logue is now available, a copy
will be sent post free on request.
Name
Address
FINNEY’S,
The Drapers of Queensland,
BRISBANE.
IN BANANA LAND
“Gumlu” from the prolific North :
Re the water supply for irrigation drawn through
spears from shallow depths in the Herbert district.
I don t know that part, but the system has had a
thorough test in the Lower Burdekin countrv. About
18 years ago John Drysdale, of Kalamia and Pioneer
sugar mills, started to irrigate, drawing the bulk of
his water from lagoons; but for six years past
most of the sugar growers thereabouts have drawn
the bulk of their supply from shallow depths tapped
by means of spears. When it is remembered that
the Lower Burdekin runs two mills, and that prac-
cally the whole of the cane supplied to them is
undated, there should be no doubt now as to the
permanency of the water. Also the town of Ayr, a
little south of Townsville, gets its water from spears
at shallow depths; the old rain tank is practically
discarded. Every building has its pump or windmill.
1 know of one instance in that district where a
Dumping supply is obtained at 6ft. and sufficient
water obtained for 300 cattle daily.
This, from a man who ought to know,
suggests that Black Brother, at the Bar-
rambah settlement, isn’t getting a fair deal
trom the Bananaland Government:—
i Th ! death - rate at Barambah settlement is not
less than two per week. The annual Government Re-
port omits the death rate, while publishing other
statistics which tend to show the satisfactory state of
the settlement. The population of the settlement
cannot exceed 500.
(2) The rations provided are not enough to keep
those not aide to work alive. One bullock a week
is killed for meat for the blacks. Flour and tea are
served out, but not enough to live on.
(3) An inquiry was held early in January, 1913,
after complaints had been made by the blacks, and
the report of the Brisbane magistrate (Mr Mac-
donald) criticises the institution severely. The re-
port has not been published.
(4) An attempt was made by Mr. G. Arnell, a
dairy farmer of good standing at Murgon, to show
_ s^a^e affairs ; but the most important parts
of the letter were suppressed.
(5) I have attempted merely to state verifiable
facts. The local farmers benefit by the cheap labor
(a black receives 15s. a week, of which the settle-
ment takes ss. ; 2s. 6d. goes to the settlement’s sup-
port ; 2s. 6d. is banked for the black, who draws it
in stores at the settlement store) ; but the universal
opinion among farmers and station owners all round
is that the blacks are being killed off by starvation
and neglect. Under the present Government control
they are worse off than when allowed their freedom.
The theory of control may be good, but its actual
carrying out condemns the Government.
Here there are two things, at any rate, that
call for immediate attention —the matters
of food supply and excessive death rate.
Black Brother be a poor lot, on the
whole ; but this country can’t afford to sit
still under the imputation that it is getting
rid of what is left of him by cooping him up
in a “settleynent,” and then starving him to
death.
Spurred perhaps by the fact that Mac-
kay, the biggest sugar centre in Australia,
consumed 6884 gallons of imported whisky
last year, an agitation has been started to
resurrect a rum distillery in the district. A
million or two gallons of molasses are run
to waste at the 10 local sugar factories
every season; and the soul of the Economist
is sorely troubled thereat.
Surely they won’t care—unless there’s a
flood of limelight somewhere! The other day
Innisfail cried for help for its submerged and
ruined farmers, and their, in many cases,
hungry families. After some days of pro-
found silence a Brisbane daily reported the
result: “There has been practically no re-
sponse to the appeal for assistance for the
flooded settlers of Innisfail.”
No publican can now serve a Queens-
lander under 21 years of age. It recalls the
fact that, some dozen years ago, an English
Act forbade the supplying of liquor (except
in sealed bottles) to any child under. 14,
whereupon a number of Weary Willie philan-
thropists immediately announced that they
would camp outside a given pub every even-
ing, and go in for the “supper beer” when
the child came along for it with the usual
jug. Perchance Queensland may see the
establishment of a similar industry.
Died, in his 57th year, R. W. Thurlow, a
well-known and reputable Brisbane mer-
chant, one time an alderman and a twice-
defeated aspirant for the State Parliament.
Thurlow once ran against J. G. Drake for
Ennogera, and had the support of a fine,
active committee of Tory dames. An enemy
who knew Thurlow’s bitter antipathy to fe-
male suffrage asked him. towards the close of
a meeting, “What do you think of votes for
women?” And Thurlow answered promptly,
quite forgetting the women workers, who
nearly filled the platform, “I think women
would be a great deal better looking after
their homes than gadding about electioneer-
ing.” The platform cleared instanter, and
Drake galloped in an easy winner.
FRENZIED FINANCE.
The saddest blow ever given to the old
ladies of the Bananaland Legislative Coun-
cil fell upon them the other day when each
one received from the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment a small parcel of forms to be used
in claiming the maternity bonus. It may
have been an accidental gibe; but some of
them spoke about it with extraordinary bit-
terness.
Captain John Maekay, Brisbane’s well-
known waterfront identity, is still as hearty
as when he quit the diggings near Armidale
(N.S.W.) with an armed narty en route to
what is now the town of Maekay, in 1860.
He has seen the population of Sugaropolis
grow from one wallaby to 15,000 people or
more. The river which was named the
Maekay in honor of the leader of that little
party in the ’6o’s was, on the clumsy inter-
ference of Commodore Burnett, re-chris-
tened the Pioneer, he having already named
a stream flowing into Rockingham Bay the
Maekay. Two aborigines took part in the
early explorations to Maekay. One, “Spen-
cer’s Billy,” is still alive. It was he who
said, “Me and Jim Ready was the first two
bloomin’ white men to cross the range.”
Crusaders.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Health Department’s crusade against the mos-
quito pest is being continued with unabated vigor,
tor the fortnight ended 22nd inst., 43,789 yards of
natural breeding places were oiled. During the same
period 1/32 houses were inspected, and 363 gallons
of oil used in the operations.— Brisbane news item.
The old Crusader rode to work got up like
Brown’s Pressed Beef;
llis lady on the battlements wept quarts to
show her grief;
Then through the lonely months and years
she worked with fingers white
A tapestry wherein she wove the valor of her
knight—
Her true, devoted knight!
\Vhile he was pounding infidels with all his
steel-bound might.
Upon brave quests and far they went like
dauntless tins of jam.
To •spread the fight of Christendom, and kick,
and curse, and slam ;
With plain, archaic violence they sought
to save Mankind ;
They used to rack the infidel until he changed
his mind —
His Middle Ages mind.
They yearned to save his soul, so they were
cruel to be kind.
The new Crusader now is here. No armor
is he in ;
Instead of dagger, sword and lance, he bears
a shining tin;
He does not aim at saving souls—he’s merely
saving hides;
leu see him hard at work where’er the sharp
mosquito bides —
Where’er he bites and bides,
And down among the waters still his wrig-
gling hell-spawn hides.
Romance along some lines is dead. The
ancient stunts are done ;
With oil cans and such silly things the mod-
ern fights are won ;
Mild, splendid knights in spectacles are doing
wondrous things—
But not the sort of which a bard with burn-
ing ardor sings.
With great respect he sings!
But there’s scant inspiration in crude oil,
and cans, and stings !
QUEENSLAND.
A. GOODE KNIGHTES RESTE.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, March 1, 1913.
My Dear Tiiargomindaii,—
The Q.T.C. Races to-day were singularly
lacking in the fashionable element. The
Governor, with P. S. Bytli in attendance,
arrived early, and was led boxwards by
Charlie Morris, president of the club. Pretty
Mrs. Morris, Mr. and Mrs. Fletcher (of Eu-
rella station), and Mrs. Hooper also occu-
pied seats among the mighty and the dead-
heads.
The Jap was the principal novelty of the
week’s social events. On Monday afternoon
resident Japanese entertained their brothers
of the Soya and Adzuma at the Museum Gar-
dens, most of the aldermen and their wives
being part of the exhibits. The little brown
folk who paid for the feast stood in two neat
rows somewhere in the background, while the
aldermanic visitors and the Jap naval men
nibbled the feed.
On Tuesday the Chiel Macgregor, with the
Foxton aide as major domo, took the Asiatic
Admiral and his two captains over the Mu-
seum, after which Premieress Denham spread
the friendly teacup somewhere among the
roses in her garden at Ipswich-road.
The river trip planned by his Ex. on Tues-
day afternoon seemed to please our brown
acquaintances immensely. But, then, these
people are credited with dying the most pain-
ful deaths with a glad smile, so it is rather
hard to judge whether they are animated by
pleasure, contempt, physical agony or antici-
patory joy. Most of the Society dames
aboard gushed over the yellow mariners, and
went home with paper Japanese flags flutter-
ing on their palpitating bosoms ; so I suppose
an entente cordiale or something was estab-
lished.
Admiral Tochinai gave a luncheon on the
flagship on Wednesday, and on Thursday
morn the two ominous grey vessels weighed
anchor and put on all steam for Nippon.
Peter Murphy, M.L.C., who has perched
among the elders of the Legislative Coun-
cil for some years, has been made a life mem-
ber of the Q.T.C. for services in the good
cause.
Died this week in Sydney, R. W. Thur-
low, one of Brisbane’s leading merchants, and
one of the best judges of horseflesh in the
State. Thurlow’s jumpers have gained him
many blue ribbons and other trophies at the
Brisbane Show, and his three daughters are
as expert as the next man at taking horses
over the sticks. Thurlow took a keen interest
in tennis, and had been both president and
vice-president of the O.L.T.A. Tennis was
a family failing, and Mrs. Thurlow, Mr. Alf
Thurlow, and the Misses May and Eva Thur-
low (the latter is now Mrs. Tom Burstall,
of Sydney) have represented Queensland at
the game.
Another well-known citizen, George Warry,
passed over last night. His father, R. S.
Warry, was one of the first to don the
mayoral rabbit skin of Brisbane. As a side-
line from football and sailing he was a mer-
cantile broker. About four years ago he
married Miss Heal, and went round the world
for a wedding trip. While in America his
wife became seriously ill, and she died shortly
after their return to Brisbane. He was only
47 when he got the call.
Pretty Mrs. William Collins and her youth-
ful family left by mail train this morning for
Melbourne, where they will join the Medina
for London. Rumor (who oft-times is the
most perjured of her sex) says a handsome
R.N. man and a second plain gold band are
waiting for the widow in the Cold Country.
Mr. and Mrs. Ernie Baines are returning
to Bananaland by the Orama at the end of
the month. Daughter Hilda (now Mrs. Will
Forrest) and her husband will arrive (liv
a week earlier by the Osterley. I hear they
are bringing with them something new and
staggering in the way of motor-carts.
Another startling accident happened this
week. Mrs. Mclntyre, an old lady of 63,
whose son by an early marriage is Mr. M. H.
Finney, manager of the Australian Bank of
Commerce in Sydney, was driving to a wed-
ding reception, when the motor overturned,
and she died in less than 10 minutes as a re-
sult of her injuries.
At the meeting of the Mothers’ Union
district nursing home, on Thursday, an An-
glican cleric urged the nurses to increase
their fees now that Andy Fisher’s bonus has
come to stay. Five nounds is such a huge
sum, Thargomindah, that when the new little
Australian has been provided with the usual
garments, and the doctor and nurse paid, the
misguided mother will in all probability go
gay, and give a champagne christening party.
The Methodist Conference, which has been
with us all the week, blazoned forth into a
garden party to-dav. I didn’t hear any vote
of sympathy to the Q.T.C. on the recent burn-
ing of the tote at Ascot, but I presume the
omission was a mere accident.
Yours in the hour of the supper onion,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
“Gravel-scratcher”: Speaking generally,
Pearce has made an admirable Minister of
Defence; but he has displayed a lamentable
weakness in bending to the impertinent de-
mand of the Brisbane Hibernian Associa-
tion that no parade of the citizen forces be
held in the Ist Military District on St. Pat-
rick’s Day. The regulations require that
there be certain whole-day parades, apart
from the camp of continuous training; and
what better time for the purpose than a pub-
lic holiday, when a day’s work can be done
in daylight? The Hibernian demand was
admittedly based solely on the expectation
that, by prohibiting any parades on the
Seventeenth of Ireland, the numbers attend-
ing the sports might be augmented ; and this
gate-money appeal shouldn’t have been given
a moment’s quarter. Besides, it) is danger-
ous. The Churches have, repeatedly urged
that there should be no parddes or camps in
the Easter holidays; and this Hibernian
precedent will produce a resurrection of the
ecclesiastical protest, and prompt the Cale-
donians, St. George Society, Welshmen and
Australian Natives to claim “protection”
for the celebration of their own pet days.
The young man who is paid 4s. for compul-
sory attendance at a whole-day parade
prefers to have that parade on a
compulsory holiday, seeing that attendance
at parade on a working day involves a loss
of wages ; and the less direct loss of produc-
tion and wages the system is responsible for
the better. Australian defence is a serious
business, and while the forces are in a state
of transition, and the new system on its
trial, there should be no flaccid concessions
of sprats to religious or other organisations,
in return for what is. after all, a very doubt-
ful political mackerel.


I? * Ylßtf ‘‘V'.vlS/ /*§
VU>~
e:w- ,
■ 'JgrfO? 4
..
i
IT
! J
.
i . ' .
' ' ...,. -4
%
V
*
*
r
fi
• i
■?w
3
/
/ A
\
'
l 4
>Vi
JT i,
BsSB
/
■
»
ii
M" J
*1
', &J r.
■
|
/*
i*
<
sr
V
fria
>r
-
«f»
', : i-.,;
3e.ru.
w
“WATSONS N°IO
for
THE NINETEENTH HOLE:
Sydneys Address 3 60 Kent-S> CdmitJfnJAtmilsW <J)a


Shipping;. . _
Pm and Orn BRANCH SERVICE.
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Via MELBOURNE and ADELAIDE.
Wireless installed. *Twin Screw. fCalls Hobart.
PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION AMIDSHIPS.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
LONDON £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l7 17s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne: John Sanderson & Co., 11l William St.
Adelaide and Fremantle Agents: Geo. Wills & Co.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamers. Cabines-de luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads: Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Pi.ack, Sydney.
Banking:, Public Companies, ike.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Head Office: 11 Moore Street, Sydney.
(Guaranteed by the State Government).
Has Now No Connection
with the Post Offices.
The Bank has 115 Branches and
500 Agencies throughout the State.
DEPOSITS received from 1/- to £5OO.
INTEREST— % from £1 to £3OO,
and 3% on excess of £5OO.
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
of [)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and lieserves .. 370,000
H EAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE EKES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts,
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp !c Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: It. It. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK, LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
THE
Australian Bank nf Commerce
LIMITED
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,534
PAID-UP (31st December, 1912).. £1,195 274
RESERVE FUND £15,000
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS—Sir William P. Manning, lvt., Chair-
man; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.; Ciias. li.
Myles, Esq.; Mark Sheldon, Esq.; Arthur s!
Barton, Esq; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world!
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BAHK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO.OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,590 14 6
Reserve 130,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091 669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since 18D3 specially protected.
Directors—Jas. Munro, Esq. (Chairman) ; Jonn
Cameron, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. ; Geo. Edw. Bunnin<*
Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON
INTEREST ALLOWED ON FIXED DEPOSITS.—
12 months, at the rate of 4 per cent, per annum : 2
years and over, at the rate of 41 per cent, per stamim
HEAD OFFICE .... BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the Bast.
New Zealand Insurance Cfo.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
LIVE STOCK and GENERAL.
WEALTHIEST COLONIAL COMPANY.
INSURANCES EFFECTED at LOWEST Current Rates.
FIRE and MARINE BRANCH: 77 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
ACCIDENT BRANCH: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
J. A. Minnett & A. E. D’Arcy, Join! Managers.
CARBIDE
For First-Class
Results use
Best
PF*“PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can he obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Af{ nts for Australia.
Shipping.
N.D.L.
NORDDEUTSCHER-LLOYD
MAIL STEAMERS
To Colombo, Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and
Bremen.
All steamers fitted with “Wireless” Installation.
All steamers fitted with Laundry.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE from Sydney
and Brisbane, via German New Guinea, Yap,
Angaur or Maron. Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to —
LOHMANN & CO.. General" Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney :
OS J ERMEYER, VAN ROMPAEY & Co., Melbourne *
H. MUECKE & CO., Adelaide : ’
L. RATAZZI k CO.. Perth and Fremantle:
■THOS. BROWN k SONS, Ltd., Brisbane k Townsville.
Bank of Hew Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£1,000,000
Preference Shares .. .... 500 000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
UP„ , 500,000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,240,587
GRANTS DRAFTS
sdf
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other usual Bankin
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
business.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
sd
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
SUEi/IC, about MARCH 12.
PERSIC, about APRIL 9.
RUNIC, about, MAY 7.
MEDIC, about JUNE 20.
Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
Only One Class of Accommodation!
Fares—Capetown or Durban £l5 15 oto £2-1 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 oto 30 0 0
Melbourne . . . . 1 10 0
New York. Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, etc., from 25 0 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Acents in Australia.
Australian Steamships Ltd.
Howard Smith Co. Ltd., Managing Agents.
Fast Passenger Steamers
* S.S. COOMA,
*S.S. BOMBALA,
S.S. PEREGRINE.
•Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Leave Ports as follows:—-
MELBOURNE every Wednesday.
SYDNEY every Saturday.
BRISBANE every Tuesday and Wednesday.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma) every Monday and
Wednesday.
MACKAY every Sunday and Thursday.
TOWNSVILLE every Saturday.
New Express Passenger Steamer, T.S.S. WANDILT.A
sails for ADELAIDE, ALBANY and FRE-
MANTLE—
From MELBOURNE, SATURDAY, MARCH 8.
FULL PARTICULARS re FARES, FREIGHTS, etc.,
from
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
An Island Cruise
is the ideal change of air and scene for
residents of Inland Australia. An ever-
changing panorama of coral reefs, palm-clad
beaches and picturesque native villages.
Send for Illustrated Books describing
various tours by the Burns, Philp Line,
occupying three weeks to two months, and
costing £5 to £25.
fsd
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 11 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
DIRECTORS:
£3,000,000
£2,150,000
£3,000,000
£8,150,000
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, Kt.,
President.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
M.L.C.,
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Nortnand MacLaurin, lit., M.EX",
Senator The Hon. James T. Walker.
.The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, 0.M.G., M.IUCt
Auditors: Shepheard Edgecliffe Laidley, Esq.; Alfred George ' Mils’on~*Esa~ »
*l^' d „° <^ ce - Geore ® Sydney London Office-29 Threadneedle St , E C
pondents^ throughout'lhe'^Worldl' 131 30 N ' W Z ““ a " d - F «‘ *" d <s°™-
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THF
WORT - D - J- RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager. “
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up.. ..£1,739,553 2 6
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,580,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 1,750,000 0 0
£5,069,553 2 6
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen, Esq .. . . Chairman,
lion. 11. E. Eater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Mon. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Sheet,ey, Esq.
Auditors: W. L. Docker, Esq., and E. S. Cape, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dm ns.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
11. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
Manager: A. J. Soutar.
Accountant: W. R. Sayers.
Secretary: M. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors: IV. C. B. Tiley, IV. 11. Piniiey.
London Office: 13 Bircliin-Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq.; lion. 11. S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manage!': F. A. Scrivener.
Brandies throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. ..£538,307
Reserve Liability o-f Shareholders .. .. 159,054
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock).. 76,500
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Gen. Man.. Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. 11. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agmts and Correspondents throughout the World.
The Colonial (T)utual Qife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Ai.nuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Mead Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,358,229.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £5,600,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretary.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE.
Choice of Rail Routes through America, via Grand
Canyon, Ycsemite, Niagara Falls, etc.
Around the World Tours in connection with airlines.
Around the Pacific Tours, returning from Vancouver
via Honolulu, Suva and Auckland.
Steamer.
AORANGI
*TAHJTI ..
MOAN A ..
Leave Sydney
at 3 p.m.
March 22
April 19
May 17
Leave Wellington
March 28
April 25
Slay 23
Aid ISVJSR'Y 2S DAYS TH ERIC AFTER.
The largest and finest steamer trading between
Sydney and San Francisco.
Steamers stop 24 Hours at Papete—the
“Pearl of the Pacific.”
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.
259 George Street. SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“Ulimaroa,” “Wimmera,”
“Riverina,” “Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
• Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
Shipping.
TH “E AOELA'DE STEAMSHIP CO.
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and f rom
West Australian, South Australian
Victorian and Queensland Ports. ’
FOR MELBOURNE >
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY f
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle I
to all North Western Ports. J
T S ., S ' Warilda (7713 tons),
March 15, April 12
T.S.S. Wandilla April 2
and April 30. P 2
Fitted WirelessTelemphy.
Carrying Three Classes.
1,2, o and 4-Berth Cabim
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oairns.
S.S. Grantak (Wireless
Telegraphy), March 8
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchanepriMo
the first Port of call with other inter-State Colnpai i'S
on all services subject to conditions, which can 1
ascertained on application at the Company's Office
G. S. YUILL & CO.. LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
— : + :
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
Via FIJI AND HONOLULU.
I CANADIAN - AUSTRALASIAN RM
LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
AROUND THE WORLD TOURS.
FIRST AND SECOND CLASS.
SAILINGS :
*New triple-screw steamer, fitted with cab'ns-de-
lluxe en suite, Nursery, Laundry, etc.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTO.
Managing Agents. 259 George Street, Sydney.
Federal & Shire Lines
Steam to London, Liverpool
and Avon mouth.
(Via Colombo and Suez Canal).
T.S.S. ARGYLLSHIRE.
12,300 Tons. W. CHICKEN, Commander.
Will be despatched from —-
SYDNEY, MARCH 8.
MELBOURNE, MARCH 10.
ADELAIDE, MARCH 15.
The Saloon accommodation consists of all two-
berth cabins on the Upper deck, situated amidships..
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious-
decks. Third-class passengers supplied with fresh
provisions from cool chambers throughout the voyage.
Electric light throughout.
Return and Round Trip Tickets issued via Cape-
and (or) Suez Route. Prepaid passages arranged.
Saloon. Third-class.
Fares .. £4O to £45. £l6/16/-to £lB/18/--
Steerage Fares from Brisbane, One Guinea Extra.
To be followed by the
T.S.S. WILTSHIRE, leaving Sydney April 14.
Calling at Hobart and Colombo.
FITTED WITH WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY.
For further information, pamphlets, etc., apply tb—
BIRT & CO., LTD., Sydney and Brisbane.
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & CO. PTY., Ltd.,
Melbourne and Newcastle.
ELDER SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
H. JONES & CO., LTD., Hobart.
A Whole Week Saved
SYDNEY to SAN FRANCISCO by the
Oceanic Steamship Company
10,000 tons, Twin Screw Steamers. 17 knots,
Classed 100 A 1 at British Lloyds.
CABINS DE LUXE with BATHS.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY—
The through trip to England can be accomplished
in 29 Days via Samoa, Honolulu, San Francisco.
RETURN TICKETS GOOD BY P. & 0., ORIENT LINE,
N.D.L., N.Z .S. Co. and S. S. & A. Co.
Tel. 2282 City. Apply— 44 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
A.U.S.N. Go. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
*T.S.S. “ INDARRA ” ... 10,000 tons
*T.S.S. “ KANOWNA”... 7000 tons
*T.S.S. “ KYARRA” ... 7000 tons
*T.S.S. “ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
*T.S.S. “ WYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
S.S. “ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
*Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
The above steamers possess all modern conveni-
ences for safe, easy and pleasant travelling.
From Sydney to Melbourne, Adelaide and Bris-
bane, and vice versa, second halves of Steamers’ fun
Saloon Return Tickets are available by Rail, and
similarly Return portions of first-class Rail Tickets by
Steamers; particulars on application.
For Dates of Sailing see Daily Papers.
BURNS, PHILP 8 COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents. 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
U NCLAIMED MONEY & PROPERTY.
EOUGAL’S REGISTER to NEXT-OF-KIN,
CHANCERY HEIRS, LEGATEES, Ac.. Ac., price
3/-, 480 pages. Robertson’s, booksellers, Mel bourne,
Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, or JJougal A Co.
Claims investigated and carried through
00UCAL& C0.,151. STRAND, LONDON, ENCLAND-
t/'.'W oh!ishrO over 60 Iv’or.S'.y


T HE
W
North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS: also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S IIAR
BOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE’
thence to Tweed Heads—steamer to Murwillumbah’
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers’
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice versa,.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Bs. 6d. ; second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
EORGE HOTEL,
St. iti 1 da, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant-
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN'S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
6S£ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
Bird’s
Custard
stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess*
Has stood the test of time
L Over 70 years' success. A
* i *1
M
sfiSs
m ,
sra
S&a&S
/lb
- .
m
m:
* | '
: I :i
vt
CHAMPIONS
MALT
VINEGAR
CHAMPION 5
•V
$
f
Commonwealth g|f|p Bank of Hustralta
° P<!n f ° r th * tranBa ' ,Uon of Qen « r »' Banking Business throughout Australia
New South Wales-Syrtney and Canberra Vletoria-Melbourne. Queensland— Brisbane and
Townsville. South Australia -Adelaide. Western Australia— Perth Tasmania— Hobart
And at Egypt House, 36-38 New llroad Street, London
rniwr^ mit i , tr f ces *V?? e i t0 ’ an , d^ lraft ,’' dr ?"’ n *? n ,orei en places direct. Foreign Bills negotiated and
forward tf "! • Circular Notes issued to any part of the world. Bills negot.ated or
Onmmnnwlirh ii e Ri T klnBr * nd Exchange Business of every description transacted within the
common wealth, United Kingdom and foreign countries.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT
Agencies are open ,r. practi ally all Post Offices which issue Monev Orders in the Australian
Commonwealth and Papua. ~
Withdrawals on demand uiay be effected for sums up to £lO at any Office within the Commonwealth
1/-
Minimum
Deposit
SOru January, 1913
3%
Rate of Interest on
all Deposits up to
£3OO
DENISON MILLER, Goviwcob
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queensland
oners a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the prospective
settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office ; 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
DINNEFORDSi
» Magnesia
lIWNMrf»EI
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequenea
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see that
“Dlnneford &Co.”
is on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
DON’T MISS THIS SNAP !
A 10/6 WATCH for
3/11
%
te n Airmen
#
%
We make this sensational offer in order to advertise our
“Corn Cob” Tobacco and King of All Cigars. We want
you to know how satisfying they are. It is only by ac-
cepting one of the following offers that you can obtain
this reliable timekeeper for 3s. lid. Send for one to-day.
Cigar Offer.
Send 2/6 for 10 fragrant King' of all Cigars, and a further
3/11 for the Watch —6/6 in all.
Corn Cob Offer.
20Z. Corn Cob, Packet, Cut, Light or Dark, lOd.
3/11. Postage, 6d. Total, 5/3. Inter-State, 2d.
Watch only, 10/6. Post Free.
The Watch,
extra. The
liarce Block Corn Cob, Light or Dark - l >*- The ?° rn ( / ob
Watch, 3/11. Postage, 6d. Total, 5/9. Inter-State, 3d. extra.
p er it, Boxes, 6/-; 2oz. Packets, 6/6. Inter-State, extra.
Albert Cable Shape, V- extra.
Craig' & Aithen,
654 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Established 30 Years.
ds
•*'7''"’?
«*
1
* n. ".-yj'.-L^ily-!- 1 ?
VV
WRITE FOR
THEH.BK.
CATALOGUE
When you wish to select a present for• “ the a ’ re
see our fine stocks. We specialise in beautiful Sil
of the most tasteful description, and P ro^ ,de rt S v UC a h bs^u telJ
that you will soon decide what to give. Quality absolu y
3 reliable—pi ices the lowest consistent with such.
Choice Brooeb, Jsct. Gold,
set" Pearls and Tourmalines,
"* .5 V* "»- '-• sgfa = '3O! *
Best Silver-plated Square Entree Dish, forms two dishes.
40/-
„ fesell
@ JEVVELLE^S
98KING ST.
STDNEY
Branch at 421 Pitt St
■ ■ near Railway • •
“Things done by halves are never
done right.” “Golcryst,” the new aper-
ient made from Epsom Salts, Senna,
Sarsaparilla, Dandelion, Liquorice and
Ginger, “gets to business” thoroughly.
There are no half measures about
“Golcryst.” Yet there is no griping
nor weakening. “Golcryst” has no equal
as a Blood purifying and Rheumatism
curing medicine.
Everywhere 3d., 6d. and Is. sample
posted free by Proprietors,
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO.,
Melbourne.
Box 1281, G.P.0., SIDNEY.
7t mm*9#
ft S #Ib#BRSi4I sUlf®tSt
ttS hg*±Jt®®*W
gt'fliS®frßB+4pKsi*
fsd
BUY DIRECT
FROM FACTORY.
and we guarantee you a saving of at least
£lO. All goods sent freight free. 12 . years’
warranty. A postcard will bring you our
Catalogue. Established 1875.
SANDON & STEEDMAIM.
76 Finsbury Pavement. London, England.
Apply for Free Catalogue to Mr. F.
Williams, Post Office, Parramatta, N.S.W.
WE SAVE YOU POUND
ENGLISH SEEDS
FOR YOUR GARDEN
The best English Flower and Vege-
table Seeds are supplied by the world-
renowned seed specialists, Ryder &
Son, St. Albans, England.
WRITE FOR FREE CATALOGUE (Rost Free),
which lists flowers and vegetables of
every variety, including the newest
strains and latest novelties. The Cata-
logue costs nothing. Send for it ro-day.
RYDER & SON, Utd., Ceer' Sp.jialiite, I
Holywell Hill, St. Albans, End-
LOUIS KAUFFMANN CIGARS
fsd
per 100
Imperials - 45/-
Idyllos - - 37/6
Diademas - 22/6
Gran Bouquets 20/6
Infantas - 17/6
Levucas - 15/6
Remit amount with
order and I will deliver
Cigars, all charges
paid, to any part of
Australia. Money Re-
turned in Fuel if
Buyer not satisfied
after smoking five or
Bix Cigars.
Illustrated descriptive booklet mailed to any address on appli-
cation. Only address
54 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE
WHILE WRITING (IN INK)
by using your own Letter Paper,
Invoices, etc., with this Copying*
book. You simply insert your
Letter paper (as illustrated) then
write : and the act of writing pro-
duces a perfect letter and a per-
fect copy in the book. There is
no sign of your having taken a
copy : no perforated edge.
Book N.S.C./200 copies either
200 letters size 10 by 8 in., or 400
size Bby 5, price 3/9; or Book
N.S.C./400 copies 400 or 800 re-
spectively, price 51- post free,
cash with order. Special Dainty
Octavo Book, making 200 copies, for 31- P. 0., or double capacity
for 4/3. Sample of the wonderful Zanetic Ink Paper which
makes the copy, free, if stamped uddrrssjd envc/ohe seuf to
S.B. ZANETIC, Welford Rd., LEICESTER, ENGLAND.
OLL3NV7
f
r*sc/«o®
COPYING
D. Brahm 8 Co.,
Tailors
are now showing their Winter Stocks of
Materials for
LADIES’ COSTUMES
These Materials are the Latest Produc-
tions of the British Manufacturers, and are
what are now fashionable in the European
i entres ; and will be supplemented by further
shipments each fortnight during the coming
season. i
A particularly fine range of Pure Indigo
Serges are also being shown.
Our Cutter—Mr. Murphy—gives each cus-
tomer his personal attention.
DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
Tailors and Costumers,
76 Market Street, SYDNEY
HE Australian Magailne—THE LOMK
HAND. The National Montlilj . 1 rlre, * A


Government Notices.
KALGOORLIE TO PORT
AUGUSTA RAILWAY.
SUPPLY AND DELIVERY OF JARRAH
SLEEPERS.
riIENDERS will be received until 11
X a.m. un TUESDAY, the 11th March,
1913, for the supply and delivery of
Three Hundred Thousand (300,000) Sawn
or Hewn Jarrah Sleepers—Dimensions Oft.
x lOin. x sin., to be of full size, rectangular
in section, cut from large trees and free
from all faults. Price to include delivery
in ships’ slings on railway trucks at Port
Augusta Wharf, but not to include Wharf-
age Charges at Port Augusta.
Alternative quotations may be made for
delivery on trucks alongside ship at Bun-
bury (W.A.).
Tenderers to state date of first delivery,
also rate of subsequent deliveries, and may
tender for the whole or any portion of the
quantity required. No tender necessarily
accepted.
Forms of Tender and Conditions of Con-
tract can be obtained at the qffice of the
Engineer-in-Chief, Commonwealth Railways
Construction Branch, 84 William Street,
and at the offices of the Commonwealth Pub-
lic Service Inspectors at Adelaide and Perth
respectively.
Tenders should be endorsed, “Tender for
Jarrah Sleepers for Kalgoorlie-Port Augusta
Railway”; to be addressed to “The Secre-
tary, Department of Home Affairs, Mel-
bourne.”
KING O’MALLEY,
Minister of State for Home Affairs.
Business Announcements.
$i& p f
Fits “Wonder” has
No “Bromide of Potash.”
Safe, Certain Cure—
-6 Bottles posted 17/2.
Write for particulars—
T. H. MERSON,
229 Collins St., Melbourne,
VICTORIA.
sdf
Good, Cheap
Light.
At Id. an hour, At-
• rhosl'ite Air-gas gives
5-60 C.P. brilliant
white lights, restful and
soft to the eyes, and
absolutely clean,
healthful and safe un-
der all conditions.
The plant is auto-
matic and easy to
install. Write for
literature.
Brandt Bt*os., Ltd.
236 Pitt St., Sydney.
Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
PAGES FOR EVERY WOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE. SYDNEY.
Direction .T. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
THE THEATRE COOL AND BEAUTIFUL.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
THE SUNSHINE GIRL.
Played bv
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
PLANS AT PALING’S
National amphitheatre, Sydney.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
BRENNAN-FULLER’S VAUDEVILLE CO.
SCHEPP’S ANIMAL CIRCUS.
MARJORIE DAW,
MORRIS & SHAND, MABELLE,
THE TWO ROSEBUDS, Aus'ralia’s Cleverest Soubrettes-
HALL RAINE,
THE TIT BITS. LOUIE DUGGAN,
LIEUTENANT STOFF.
Prices: 3/-, 2/-, 1/-, 6d. Saturdays & Holidays,3/-, 2/-,!/-
AD ELP II I THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction and Management. Gi¥>lt«R Matu.ow. Ltii.
Last Two Nights of THE BEGGAR GIRL’S WEDDING.
SATURDAY EVENING NEXT. MARCH 8.
Revival of “ Ouida’s” Wonderful Story of Lorjdon
and Algerian Life, entitled,
UND K R r J' W O ¥ LAGS.
The Drama that is WHOLESOME, EXHILARATING
and ABSORBING.
POPULAR PRICES : 4/-, 3/-, 2.1- & 1/-.
ALACK TREAT RE. SYDN E V.
Direction : WILLIAM ANDERSON. ; j
EVERY EVENING.
THE PRINCE & THE BEGGAR MAID.
EUGENIE DUGGAN as PRINCESS MONICA.
CYRIL MACKAY as RRINCE OLAF.
And the Full Strength of WILLIAM ANDERSEN’S
PREMIER DRAMATIC ORGANISATION.
PRICES: 4/-, 2/6 and 1/-. •: .
JH E LYCEUM, SYDNEY.
SPRNCER’S PICTURES LTD.
Direction: C. SPENCER.
THE PREMIERE PICTURE HOUSE IN
AUSTRALIA.
PRICES AND PLAN AS USUAL.
WE CHANGE MONDAYS -AND THURSDAYS.
QLACIAKIUM AND OLYMPIA. SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEE—SATURDAY.
DE GROF.N S VICE REGAL ORCHESTRAS.
3d. to 2s. Plan at Nicholson’s (No Extra Fee).
ICKAKDS’ TIVOLI THEAT II E.
Personal Direction Mr. HUGH D. McINTOSH.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MISS CASSIE WALMER, Eccentric Contralto.
DE MARLO & LADY, presenting “ A Frog’s Paradise.”
MDLLE. RENEE, Refined English Instrumentaliste.
KITCHEN & FOY, Bar Comiques.
LANCASTER OPERA CO., MARSHALL CROSSBY,
WELCH & CARBASSE, CHAS. ZOLI, MAX MARTIN.
MAXINI BROS. & BOBBY, Droll Acrobats and Balancers.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
Prices: 5/-, 4/-, 3/- and 1/-
OPERA HOUSE. MELBOURNE.
Personal Direction Mr. HUGH D. McINTOSH.
CLAIRE ROM AIN E, England’s Rollicking Boy.
CLAUDE LE PLASTRIER, Sketch Artist.
THE PATTY-FRANK TROUPE of Continental Acrobats.
MOZZETTO, Juggler and Coin Catcher.
ALEXANDER PRINCE, Concertina Soloist.
GEO. BRYANT & CO. in “Katy Did.”
NEWMAN <& HUGHES, Comedy Trick Cyclists.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES —35., 25., Is.
“|" HEAT RE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
LAST NIGHTS OF
The Magnificent Production of Shakspeare’s Greatesi
Comedy,
A MIDSUMMER NIGHT S DREAM.
PRICES—Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 7/6.
Stalls, 4/-. Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
• Sole Lessee and Manager: William Anderson.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, MARCH 8.
Revival of Carlton Wallace’s Success,
A THIEF IN THE NIGHT.
POPULAR PRICES. PLANS AT ALLAN’S.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee: GEO. MARLOW LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
GEORGE MARLOW’S BRILLIANT DRAMATIC CO.
In the Great Controversial Attraction,
HIE MONK AND THU
WOMA N.
Prices, 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Plan at Pianola Co.
YRIC THEATRE, Chapel St., Prahran, Vic.
EVERY NIGHT at 8. MATINEE, SATURDAY,
at 2.30.
THE FAMOUS “NON-FLICKER”
PHOTOPLAYS
on the Marvellous “Mack” Screen, together with the
Superb LYRIC ORCHESTRA, fid. to 2s. Plan.- at.
Allan’s, C. M. Read’s and the Lyric Theatre Cats.
Birch & carroll
(Queensland),
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princK
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of which
we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office : ROTHWELL CHAMBERS, BRISBANE.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
LAST NIGHTS
of
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S ANNUAL EXTRAVAGANZA,
PUSS IN BOOTS.
THE LAST WORD IN PANTOMIMES.
Plan at Allan’s. Reserved Seats & Dress Circle, 6/-
OLLI E S THEATRE, sl\ HILDA
EVERY EVENING AT 8.30.
THE S M A K T S E T.
(Direct from London.)
WALTER GEORGE’S ORIGINAL MUSICAL
COMBINATION. ALWAYS ARTISTS.
CHANGE OF PROGRAMME BVEfcY FRIDAY.
PRICES: 2/- (reserved), 1/6, 1/-, and 6d.
Box Plan at Allan’s, Lily Bray ton Floral Studio, St. Kilda
’Phone. H] J. BEACHAM. Manager.
IL e d ward bra n s comb E’S
FIVE COMPANIES OF
HANDIES.
EVERY EVENING.
CREMORNE GARDENS, BRISBANE, at 8.30.
“ARCADIA” (late Royal Yacht Club), opp. the Pier,
ST. KILDA, at 8.30.
• EDEN. GARDENS, MANLY, at 8.5.
EXHIBITION GARDENS, ADELAIDE,
PRINCESS CO’ RT. ROf'KHO RTON. NIGTi 'T.V
Direction amalgamated pictures
ltd.
, Melbourne’s Latest and Finest Picture Palace.
THE MAJIST 1C THEATRE.
FLINDERS STREET, opp. Princes Bridge Station.
Continuous Matinees Daily from 12 to 6 o'clock.
3d., fid. and 1/-
Evening Prices: 2/-, 1/6, 1/- and 6d. Plan at Allan’s.
0~ L Y M P I A. OLYMPIA~
L Y M P I A. MELBOURNE.
(Just across Princes Bridge).
WHERE ARE TO BE SEEN THE UNRIVALLED
SPENCER’S PICTURES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
■SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS AT 2.30.
EVERY NIGHT AT 8.
U/E'S T’S PALACE. MELBOURNE.
"bust WEST'S PICTURES
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8. Matin6es Wednesdays, Saturdays,
and All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Anv Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to he
seen at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change
every week. Prices —6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
SOUTHERN CROSS BAZAAR AND
ART UNION.
I(l aid of VICTORIAN NEGLECTED CHILDREN’S
AID SOCIETY.
ATjJENAEUM HALL,
MARCH 6, 7 and 8.
£450.
LATEST MODEL MOTOR. Self-starter.
Electric Llg-lit. 30 h.p. Tickets, Is.
£125.
MAGNIFICENT DIAMOND PENDANT (on
view at Newman’s). Tickets, Is.
£45.
HANDSOME DIAMOND BANGLE (on view
at Newman’s). Tickets, Is.
75 Guineas.
HAN D-PAINTF.D FISH SER-
VICE. Tickets, Is.
15 Guineas.
SINGER’S LATEST MODEL
DROP HEAD SEWING
MACHINE. Tickets, Is.
DRAWING TO TAKE PLACE APRIL 6.
Tickets may be obtained from
MRS. PERCY RUSSELL, “ Übberholme,” 61
Prospect Hill Road, Camberwell.
MRS. R. HALLENSTEIN, “Woonsocket,”
Barkly Street, St. Kilda.
Joint
Hon.
Secs.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Lessee J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
Sub-Lessee .. .. .. •• •• WALTER BENTLEY.
A notable event.
EVERY EVENINQ.
WALTER BENTLEY,
Supported by a Powerful Company, in Shakspeare’s Sublime Tragedy
HAMLET.
PRICES: 4/-, 2/6, I/- BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
ROYAL SYDNEY SHOW
18th to 26th MARCH, 1913.
£6OOO PRIZES £6OOO.
GREAT SHOW of LIVE STOCK and AGRICULTURE.
MACHINERY IN MOTION.
MANUFACTURERS OF THE WORLD.
EXCURSION FARES FROM ALL PARTS.
Ocean House, Moore Street, Sydney.
H. M. SOMER, Secretary.
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball-
Bearing: Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing: Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago, U.S. A.
RICHARDSON”
CHICAGO
Onoto Pen
Fills Itself from Any Ink Supply
121-
Cannot Leak
W ith thank*
fulness our
hearts rejoice,
And we would
sing in
strident voice
The praises ot
ONOTO.
Every man. woman and child should have an
'ON A COOD Till! 3' Onoto Pen and use it. The Onoto is the British
„ made Fountain Pen—that fills itself in a flasn
from any ink supply—that never leaks—that writes smoothly and speedily, and never splutters. The Onoto
can be obtained from all Stationers’, Jewellers’ and Stores, price 12/-. and in a variety of more elaborate
styles for presentation purposes. A Booklet about the various models free on application to THOS.
De La Rue & CO., Ltd., 168 Bunhill Row, London, E.C., or the Australasian Representative, Norman
"Baker, 50 York Street, Sydney.
IMPORTANT.— For those who require a larger pen with a very flexible nib, a special model—the
new G—has been put on the market. It is exceptional value for the money. Try this new Gat your
stationer’s.
400 ENTREE DISHES
snd more to arrive regularly, was the
order given by our Managing Director in
Sheffield four,, months ago. r ,
WHY?
Well! We w.anted to produce an “F.
and R.” Entree Dish of unparalleled
value. We secured them by allowing
the manufacturers to make them in slack
times. Each has the heaviest deposit
. possible of silver, on the finest quality
nickel silver base.
The deposit of silver is four times
more than that on’ the Entree Dishes
usually sold in Australia. Then, each
one is hard sojdered 'throughout, and may
be put in an oven. Most entrees in Aus-
tralia are only soft or pewter soldered.
This “Fx& R ” Ejntree Dish is the most wonderful value we have ever produced. They will wear
' for 40 years. Similar goods, but with less silver, have usually been sold at 70/- each.
The best plated Entree Dish, hard sol
dered throughout 50/-
Less 20 per cent 10/-
& ROBERTS, Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
PLAIN FIGURES. CASH.
23 and 25 Hunter Street.
THE EMPIRE
Absolutely the best
Cinematograph i n
Australia to-day.
And it is likely to
be so for all time.
WE KNOW THIS—
YOU SHOULD KNOW
IT.
A Demonstration
will prove its great
superiority, and will
leave you convinced.
Call or.write to us.
i
■;4C22u*
I
ggg
ÜBS
•’
Hr-
f
44 The Money Maker.”
Biograph
WE ARE AT ALL
TIMES READY TO
SHOW YOU THIS
PICTURE MACHINE
We have in Stock a
few Complete Tour*
ing Plants- Engine,
DynamoA Machine.
DO THESE
INTEREST
YOU?
YOU KNOW THE
FIRM.
s'Nvcraaf
393 George St., Syoney.
Cinematograph Specialis* 5 '


.
m
(J
t
u
e&B
Fine OldlrishWhisk®
warn!
DUOL
Bottled, Corked a “ S T
AbaolwUl/ Trustworthy l
~y f 4,1 1 quality Thßooccoui TMt w
«UOKN &LHV* L'“ C» u _
as
Exquisitely mellow,
delicate in flavour,
light and digestive.
E. & J. Burke, Ltd., Dublin.
Hi Capital £1,100,000. Est. 1849.
Jj£y
from Dublin.
Demand
Burkes
•&•&■£? IRISH
yyhiskg
The World-wide
Whiskey
To Printers!
OWING- to the introduction of linotype
machinery we have for disposal an
assortment of news type (Miller and
Richard), in case and in good condition.
The following sample faces are offered at
the prices quoted :
About 4001 b. io-pt. Old Style...i/-lb.
About 400 U). 8-pt. Old Style i/- lb.
About 8001 b. Minion (Plenty of Figures), lOd. lb.
About 6001 b. Nonparikl Cheap at 1/- lb.
Also the following Jobbing Type
About 1201 b. 8-pt. Cushing 9d. lb.
About 40lb. 8-pt. Cushing Italic 9d. lb.
About 1501 b. 8-pt. Jensen Cheap at 9d. lb.
LARGE QUANTITY OF TYPE
CASES in good condition., at 1/b eacn.
THE BULLETIN NEWS CO. LTD.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1845). for Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehol
City or Suburban Properties, or o
3 a
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaving
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors—The Hon. A. \V. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; Tne
Hon. James Burns, M.L.0.; The Hon. E. J. Black, M L.C. : The Hon. F. E. Wind.combe, M.L.C. ; Adrian Knox,
Esq., K.C.; Alex. MaeOormiek, Esq., M. 1). General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.B.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dog’s Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated 'Waters and Cordials.
[«]
STONEHENGE
suggests vast strength
and solidity, qualities
which have been evinced
in a remarkable degree
in the Tyres manu-
factured by The Avon
India Rubber Co., Ltd.,
and which explain the
origin of the Avon
trade mark.
Their great factory at Melksham, near
Stonehenge, in Wiltshire, England, is
unexcelled throughout the world for
modernity and perfection of equipment,
and every tyre produced is an embodi-
ment of the finest skill and experience
applied to the highest grades of material
AVON TYRES
The British tyres that rule the road and give sound service longest.
AVON
Trade Mark.
Other
Specialities
of this Firm
include :
Mechanical Rubber
for Railways.
Avon Buffer aud Draw-
bar Spiings, Brake
Materials, Body
Fittings, Valves, Hose
etc., specially adapted
for use in the tropics.
Contractors to the
principal State Rail-
ways.
Cycle and Motor
Cycle Tyres.
Wi h special rubber
treads in several
grades, made specially
to withstand the effects
of hot olimates.
For Motor Cycle Covers.
Clinched-on. A special
combination of Rubber
and Steel btuds placed
alternately round the
tread. Hexagon
rubber-studded, round
rubber - studded and
fluted patterns. Thick
tough treads and extra
strong casings.
Solid Tyres for Motors, &c.
Avon Band Tyres for
passenger ’busses and
other heavy vehicles.
Clinched-on sections
from 24-in. to 5-in.,
suitable for the lighter
type of motor vehicles
up to 2-ton vans. Solid
tyres for Carriages,
Cabs, Rickshas, &c.
Bolt Balls.
Made up on a special
centre which forms the
nucleus tor the winding
of Para tape. This
arrangement produces
a ball which flies very
true and is especially
suitable for expert
players.
Avon Ball, 2/• each.
Nova Ball, 1/3 each.
AVON INDIA RUBBER CO., LTD.,
M ELKS HAM, ENGLAND. = =
Branches at London, Bristol,
Cable Codes: “ A.B.C. sth Edition ” and
Birmingham. Manchester and Glasgow.
“ Wpsiprii Union/ STOCKIST!
Western union. H c PANN IFAX, Melbourne
I A GREAT HUSICAL INNOVATION.
Two more (new) “Boomerang”
Mouth Organ Types, the “ Boom-
erang Grand” (48 Reeds), Price
6/6 (New); the “Miniature
Grand ” (24 Reeds), Price 3/6 (New)
—Post Free to any address.
-jKK ""
r ALBERT ’* SON 137 King Street, Sydney.
(Remit by Australian or N.Z. Postage Stamps.)
(^AND
V ALBERT’S SYSTI
PARTS
HA "D filed
»eeos
li'fS
3K.
The “ LISTER”
Petrol Engine
BRITISH BUILT.
I|, 2 b 4* O, 8& lO H.p.
Stationary and Portable.
Fitted with Bosch High Tension Magneto
Ignition and Automatic Lubrication.
STARTS INSTANTLY AND EASILY.
SAFE :: ECONOMICAL :: DURABLE.
Agents —
DANGAR, GEDYE & CO., SYDNEY.
WINCHCOMBE CARSON, LTD., BRISBANE.
HUTCHINSON HUNT, MELBOURNE.
MALLOCH BROTHERS, PERTH.
LEVIN & COMPANY, LTD.,WELLINGTON, N.Z.
SOLE MAKERS:
R. A. LISTER & Co., Ltd., Pursley, Eng.
ARE YOU
DEAF?
If you are deaf, or going deaf, you \yill be glad to
hear of a simple and scientific device which restores
hearing, no matter how old you are. No mystery or
secrecy about it; we describe it fully, and explain
just how it acts. You use spectacles as sight magni-
fiers, and in the same way you use this sound magni-
fier to hear better. Unlike spectacles, the Wilson
Common-sense Ear-Drums are invisible and comfort-
able. No one can tell you are wearing them. They
rest the ear nerves by taking the strain off them the
strain of trying to hear indistinct sounds. What a
relief to have done with that tiring strain. Being
made of the softest Bara rubber they cannot be felt,
evrn when the head rests on a pillow. For the same
reason, a blow On the side of the head will not hurt
the ear. They protect the tender inner parts of the
ear, that are so sensitive, from cold winds, dust, sud-
den and piercing sounds.
So that you may clearly understand how the Sound
Magnifiers restore hearing, we give an illustration of
one as it lies in the ear. You will notice that the
Sound Magnifier is shaped like a trumpet, and so con-
veys even the faintest sounds right to the natural drum.
Being of the softest rubber, it cannot t "”~ f the ear.
It fits the orifice of the ear
with precision and comfort.
The division that runs
across the mouth is to al-
low the removal and inser-
tion of the Ear-Drum, and
to brace it.
The shape of the Wilson
Ear-Drum has been chosen
after years of experience as
the best adapt-
ed to carry the
faintest sound.
Of course, if
you have lost
the h ea r i ng-
nerve co m-
pletely, or were
born deaf, we
cannot pretend
to cure you. Only a miracle could
do that, in spite of some of the
absurd claims made to-day. But
of you can hear the faintest sound,
do not despair. You will never
regret trying the Wilson Ear-
Drums. We have letters to show
you from deaf people in Australia
and New Zealand, who have been
cured, and you can be cured, too. You may wear
the Ear-Drums day and night, and take them out
whenever you wish. Children can wear them (we
have special sizes for children from six to twelve).
Even a child can insert and remove them without the
least danger.
The price is £1 (the fee for a doctor’s single
visit). This includes a pair of drums (they are only
sold in pairs), a fine nickel remover, and also an
inserter. After the first pair is bought you may pur-
chase a single drum at anj' time for Bs., but the
pair you get at first will last quite two years. Do
not ask for a trial pair. We do not send them out
on trial, and so they are never secondhand. Use the
Order form below, and the Outfit will be sent you
at once, with the fullest instructions. Don’t delay,
but have the comfort of good hearing as soon as you
can. ,
ORDER FORM.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
103 Arlington Chambers,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please send me an Outfit containing a pair of
Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums, an Inserter and a
Remover, for which I enclose One Pound.
Name
Address
NOTE. —Send Money Order or Postal Note. If a
Bank Note or Sovereign is sent, you must register it.
sd
fsd
f
sdf
M.B.FOSTERS
BUGLE
sdfsdfsd
BRAND
"Oau
bright
TO THE
LAST DROP.
THE PIPE OF THE
WINNER OF ALL
PRIZES UP-TO-
(GBD)
■TtbN
WORLD
FIRST
DATE.
Pipes
Pipes*
SPECIAL SILVER-
MOUNTED.
SUPERIOR TO
ALL OTHER
MAKES IN
AUSTRALIA
8103 —THE WORLD OVER-
Specially
Designed
r a
thrated
['•Taste.
ALL OOOD
SMOKERS
USE THEM-
COLORED POST CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston “ WEEKLY WORRIES.”
Set of six, posted fres, 6d. Bulletin
Newspaper Co. 214 George St., Sydney


Also the Head, Sores in Small White
Blisters. Would Breakand Spread.
Hands One Mass of Sores. Very
Painful. Used Cuticura Remedies.
Eruptions Disappeared.
88 Wilson Street, Redfern, N. S. W.—
“About three years ago my little girl aged
seven years had dreadful eruptions on the
hands and feet also tho head. The sores
came out in small white blisters which in a
day or two would break and spread and
eventually become quite raw. Her hands
were one mass of sores and dreadfully itchy
and at times very painful. She got quite
thin and miserable looking and nothing we
could do did her a bit of good. lat last tried
a set of Cuticura Remedies, and in a week’s
time she was wonderfully improved, and by
the time I had used the second set of Cuti-
cura Remedies the eruptions had almost dis-
appeared and only left a red mark which
wore away gradually and now quite disap-
peared. Since then she has not had a return of
the complaint and she is now ten years old.”
(Signed) Mrs. Elvira Leonard, Apr. 1912.
SCALY PATCH ON FOREHEAD
79 Pridham St., Prahran, Melbourne, Vic.
—“For years I had suffered from a nasty
scaly patch on my forehead which however
has been quite removed by the use of only
one tin of Cuticura Ointment.
“I can also speak well of Cuticura Soap
and Ointment for use with infants, for falling
hair, dandruff and eczema, having used
them with the very best results.” (Signed)
Nurse Manning, Nov. 13, 1911.
Cuticura Soap and Ointment are sold
throughout the world. For sample of each
with 32-page Skin Book, post-free, address
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
An Interesting:
Experiment.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey
Hairs make, just lay a piece of paper over each of
the two halves of the above portrait. The Grey
“ half ” will then be seen to have the appearance
of 45 years of age, whereas the other half looks
only 30. Dr. B. Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut
Stain will make all those years of difference if you
are grey or prematurely grey. It is perfectly
harmless, easy to apply, and will quickly restore
the hair to the natural shade of youth, or younger
years.
Dr. B. Allen’s (u. B a>
Mexican
Walnut Stain
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suit-
able for Ladies’- Hair, or Hair of the Beard or
Moustache. None genuine without the signature
of—Alfred Ardley (Registered in the Patents
Office of the Commonwealth).
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
THE Australian Magazine. THE LONE
HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6a.
Constipation and
Sluggish Liver
Don’t take chances. Get CARTER’S
LITTLE LIVER PILLS right now. They
never fail to make the liver
do its duty. They cure con-
stipation, banish indi- '
gestion, drive out
biliousness and the
blues, stop dizzi-
ness, clear the
complexion,
put a healthy
glow on the
cheek and
sparkle in the eye. There are many imitations. Be
sure and get CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER PILLS. The
pill is small, dose is small, price is small, but results
are alright. The GENUINE must bear signature
Carters
•ITTLE•
|IVE|
1^
IVER
PILLS
A Simple, Safe and Reliable Way that Produces Surprising Results.
NEW PREPARATION CAUSES BIG STIR AMONG HAIR specialists.
f
sdf
sd
f
The above clearly shows Results from a Short Course of my True Halr-Growlng Compound.
10,000 FREE TRIAL BOXES.
Those who are troubled with falling hair, dandruff,
baldness, itching scalp, etc., know full well the
humiliation that they cause. There is no need, how-
ever, of such conditions. These troubles can be
quickly overcome by my True Hair Grower.
I am not an advertising quack, but am a business
man. My hair began to grow thin about the time
I reached the age of thirty. When I had reached the
age of thirty-five the top of my head was quite bald.
I had considerable pride, and sought for something
to cause renewed growth. I invested in every pre-
paration that I could see or hear of, and here let me
say that not only did I try all the English so-called
restorers, but those of Continental Europe. I also
visited specialists. My experimenting cost me many
sovereigns and considerable time —yet the hairs came
not. I had given up the idea of ever growing hair
again. One afternoon, while enjoying a brief busi-
ness respite by an Alpine trip, I fell in with an old
collegiate chemist, whose hair was particularly plen-
tiful. I jokingly remarked that I wished he could
spare some of his hair for my benefit. This lead him
to tell me that he understood the human hair as well
as a good dentist understands teeth. He wrote out a
formula, and suggested that I have a quantity of the
compound prepared. I did this a few days later. I
was astonished to see the hair coming forth after
several applications, and within six weeks my head
was covered by a firm, yet soft, black growth of hair.
Since then the hair on my head has been as luxuriant
as when in my school days. Having arranged for
the legal right to do so, I have for some time been
privately selling this marvellous hair-growing com-
pound. I hold over one thousand letters from people
who have actually grown new hair through the
medium of my true hair grower. I do not pretend
to say it is the only hair grower in the world—l am
not interested in decrying others —but I do assert
that it is the most reliable, and in the end by far the
cheapest.
Baldness, Dandruff, Itching, etc.,
Free Trial Coupon.
Cut out this Coupon and send with 3 stamps
to cover postage, etc., and I will immediately
post a large trial box of my True Hair Grower.
John Craven Burleigh, Dept. 7, 107 Castlereagh
Street. Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
1/li, 2/9 & 4/6. Made in England.
tfjilcrcdf 1 *
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks of
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and In
*he cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
ActB like a charm In
DIARRHCEA and simple DYSENTERY.
Brings
X \\\« ; / / x X
JLlme -Irui t Jrace.
to your lips the juice
of the lime fruit.
It is a drink that is always cooling and refreshing.
The children love it. Order a few bottles to-day.
Large supplies have been lately shipped
from London.
MONTSERRAT Is sold by all leading Storekeepers.
ƒsfd
Choose a “Swan.”
The comfort of it, the sureness, ease,
sweetness —each and every character-
istic deserves notice. The “Swan”
Fountpen pleases the most impatient,
exacting writer —those who expect
more out of a pen than others have
given. We can satisfy such and win
their enthusiastic recommendation.
Every hand suited exactly.
'Swan Safety
Can't Leak,
Blot, Miss,
or Scratch,!
śd
f
Catalogue free on request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London and
Australian Branch (Wholesale only) : J. A. Waltham Building, 24 Bond St. Sydney.
Branches.
Sold by all Stationers
and Jewellers.
3
x
The food that enjoys the universal recom-
mendation of medical men.
For use during illness and con-
valescence.
For weakly infants and over-
growing children.
As a supplementary food in
cases of malnutrition, and in all cases of
dyspepsia and impaired digestion.
sdfsd
is soothing and comforting, when other foods cause pain. It is
the most easily digested of all foods, but is not pre-digested.
A full descriptive booklet may be obtained post free on application to
BUNGEE’S FOOD, Ltd., Otter Works, MANCHESTEK. ENGLAND.
117, Pitt Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
everywhere
Bxo* NZ
ood
The Real Party Machine.
Among the most curious developments of
party politics in Australia are the local asso-
ciations known as the leagues. In every
electorate there are little groups of men and
women who represent the local cog of the
party machine. These groups are know as
leagues, and their business is supposed to be
the political education of the democracy.
Theoretically, they are the enthusiasts who
give their time and labor to a cause, and try
to persuade all and sundry that a certain
course of political action is the only possible
one c<3nsistent with safety and progress. As
a plain fact, they exist for nothing of the
kind. Their business is to select a candidate
for Parliament, and when he is selected, to
use every means in their power to get him in.
However small and uninfluential the league,
may be, the prospective candidate must kow-
tow to it, flatter it with smooth words, or,
what is still better, endeavor to swamp it
with his own personal friends. When the
candidate has been selected, and has the luck
to be elected to Parliament, his natural pol-
icy is to discourage any continuous work
between elections. Were the league to be-
come a live organisation giving serious atten-
tion to political matters and increasing its
membership at a time when there was no-
thing doing, his own selection for the next
campaign would be endangered. If the league
is allowed to become moribund for two years
in every three, it is easy enough to put a
little life into it through the activities of the
member’s own personal following when the
election is near, and thus make certain that
its choice will be the same as before. In this
way party organisation is stultified, and the
electors allow themselves to be limited in the
selection of their possible representatives by
a couple of small and insignificant groups in
the electorate who claim the sole right to
pull the necessary strings. There is any
amount of talk about machine politics, but
the alleged machines of both political sides
are merely cranky old contrivances, with
most of their essential parts missing, and
they could not go at all except for the
mendous driving force of the public indiffer-
ence. A league looks a pretty important
business on paper. In reality, it is usually
a handful of prosy, ignorant and not very
enthusiastic people meeting in a small, out-
of-the-way room to grind the smallest of
axes, and work little points for some petty
personal advantage. And by such, under the
party system, Australia is willing to have
its destiny shaped.
♦
“Vulcan”: The States of Oregon and
Idaho (U.S.A.) recently passed a law mak-
ing it compulsory on all male applicants for
a marriage license to undergo examination
as to their physical fitness. It’s a good
beginning; what is wanted to continue the
job is another law to compel the Oregon and
Idaho charmers to demonstrate their ability
to keep their physically-fit blokes in that
condition by passing a cookery test.
“10-2-4” sounds a Note of Warning:—
Re “Circle’s” par (B. 20/2/’l3) on the subject of
kiekable Asiatics. No one of the aggressively Im-
perialistic type should go travelling without accur-
ately compiled lists of the colored persons whom it is
safe to assault, and those in the case of whom one
kick may mean disablement, or even death. For
example, Arabs. Never kick an Arab. I landed at
Aden once with a large, hearty Londoner. He was
one of those gallant, blusterous fellows who have
made the Empire what it is. That is to say, he had
amassed a fortune in the tea-broking trade, was a
sound golfer (scratch man at the Little Blightville
Golf Club), and regarded Winston Churchill as an
Outsider and a Disloyal Cur. He was strong on the
White Man’s Burden, and the necessity of keeping
the Empire’s niggers in subjection. Never having
travelled before, he whs a theorist pure and simple,
but, like all theorists, his convictions were unshak-
able. Kipling was his god, and sentimental con-
sideration for the rights of subject peoples his abom-
ination.
To get back to Aden, my Imperialistic friend and I
were standing near the sea-wall at which we had just
been landed, avid to know the locality of the best
and nearest pub. He put the question sharply to
an immense nasturtium-hued savage who was gazing
gloomily out over the ocean. I fancy something in
my friend’s tone or attitude displeased the Asiatic.
Like so many Britons of the best type, he was dom-
inant to the verge of offensiveness. Anyhow, the
Arab, for such he was, did not answer; in fact, he
paid no more attention to us than if we had not
been members of the sovereign race at all. I regret
to say that my friend, blindly reliant as ever on
Kipling, decided to give the insolent fellow a lesson
in manners. Raising his walking-stick, he smote
that vast, silent mass of humanity smartly upon the
unclothed leg. What followed amounted to a break-
age of all the rules known to those who are accus-
tomed to think Imperially. A sound burst from the
assailed party which suggested to my dazed brain the
sudden tearing of all the calico in the universe.
Alternatively, it reminded me of a duet between a
steam siren and a wounded elephant. In two bounds,
or less, the yellow horror was upon us. Thank God
I had no stick. He fastened immediately upon the
real offender. I had hoped faintly that my friend
would vindicate the prestige of our race, by setting
about his man like a true Briton, with his fists.
However, he didn’t. He remained limp and para-
lysed, while the other shook him like a piece of
washing. Ultimately, he flung himself on to the
hard road, and hid his face in his outstretched arms,
feigning unconsciousness. The ruthless disloyalist
who had brought one of the haughtiest business men
in the Empire to this ghastly pass, kicked the recum-
bent form twice, and then, as a sort of afterthought,
seemingly, picked it up and threw it over the wall
into the sea.
When we fished my friend out he was in no mood
to see more of our arid possession. All he wanted to
do was to get back to the ship—to return thanks, no
doubt, to the Lord of Hosts that he had been spared.
Afghans, as “Circle” hints, are dangerous folks
to smite, kick or otherwise assault; and so are
Pathans and Ghurkas. I knew a man who had to
leave India as a result of kicking a Ghurka, in the
dark, in mistake for a Bengali. He was a good run-
ner, or he would never have got a chance to leave.
Cingalese thrive on physical violence, but some of
the coolies that are imported to Ceylon from the
hill districts of India, don’t. For example, the
Tamils. It is advisable in this island, before vindi-
cating the dominance of the British race, to get
someone to kick any given nigger first. Then, if
there is a death, you will not be cast for the star
r6le at the inquest. Maoris are perilous ones to kick,
and so are most of the South Sea Islanders. The
only safe way to chastise a modern American negro
is with a, revolver. I have not kicked a Malay, and
do not propose to try.
To sum up, what one may term the kiekable area
of the world narrows down painfully, on careful
scrutiny. When I was at school, and later at
a University, I used to picture our glorious Empire
as teeming with lone and splendid white men, sur-
rounded in the different Outposts of the Nation by
herds of dog-like niggers, who came to abase them-
selves and be publicly assaulted several times a day.
Now I know that it is not so. The kicking habit
is almost as dangerous in the tropics as the whisky
habit. The only safe thing for one who is deter-
mined to establish the prestige of our race on these
lines is to hire a nigger, on the distinct understand-
ing that, in consideration of an adequate salary, he
shall thankfully receive all the bodily illtreatment
that is from time to time bestowed on him for the
purpose of upholding the dignity of the Race.


%■>> ** >
A ■>>
MS*
■
m
ill v
■
£
m
:>••••••
■■> *■
.
m
- ?
.
iiii
fcsS
V
"
■
30M?£
m
0» ?
a
¥
MUB
■ a • ! *-v'
is
»•?
i:
aSLife 1
Nearly one
Million Bottles
sold annually
in Australasia.
in mmmmmmm
7 <* T - "
f ' v'*. ,
! Tt: 5 -
•\s -
7a.
km
A.
|Kp
;- ' y :
l
MS
:!*•
s A;>7
■
- -Sfe'j
: :l
A *.
A
A
Emw,
X \
■
t-\
Avv/if
W K <>
[i'fa . /) 5
v, « s
m
Plteii
. A
W —■ or
■•«
you
iii
*
Ig 1
«
THfeTAVOURfTK R!-MH)V <>F
rnffirr* WOMEN OF THE HIGHEST TYPE. Ss§g|
• _
M
.
<■-’ > i v
•Tv:
\
*
'
.
.
:
M
.
Every Forty Seconds a I
lilt!
' r
DR. MORSE’S
; .Ji’.ir'v
PILLS
of a Customer
Aystrafa
'V,*a m
_ . v .vn NIGHT, year in and year out, a bottle
p nt Pills passes across the counter into
of Dr. Morse’s Ind.an Root remedy has such a steady,
the hands of a customer. t evide nce of the merits
clock-like sale, - a great Cure-all,
of these Pills. The> a , f or the Little Ills or
but as a safe, sure and re la much and get their
Life. F« people an *£ « m
Inactive Live,, and fo, all Fentale A.itnents.
fsd
mhhhhh
■■
J V v
'
:
...
-j; JUjZIZ.
B
r
■ :
WORMS.
THE SYMPTOMS.
The symptoms of worms are manifold, em-
bracing not only facial indications and de-
pression of the whole system, but serious
irritation and much distress.
IN VERY YOUNG CHILDREN much of the
irritability and fretfulness is often due to the
presence of worms. Restlessness, fitfulness,
sudden starts, hardness and fulness of the
belly, irregular movement of the bowels, and
excessive excretion of saliva from the mouth,
are invariably indications of the irritation
caused by worms.
IN OLDER CHILDREN the same symptoms
are present, but more distinctly defined.
Grinding of the teeth, violent movements of
the legs and arms, and an undue flow of
saliva, which causes frequent efforts to swal-
low. When awake there is a constant desire
to pick the nose and scratch the irritated
parts. The bowels are irregular, and fre-
quently the movement of the worms causes
diarrhoea, alternating with costiveness. The
breath is usually foul, and the child is lan-
guid and peevish. The tongue preternaturally
red, or alternately clean and covered with a
white, slimy mucus. A short, dry cough, fre-
quently slimy stools (excretion from the
bowels); emaciation; slow fever, irregular
pulse, and sometimes convulsions. Loss of
appetite frequently alternates with a craving
for food. Indeed, the latter symptom is most
pronounced in many cases, and many mothers
have experienced the insatiable appetites of
their children without realising the cause.
ROUND OR STOMACH WORMS.
The Round Worm in its appearance, save
in color of course, somewhat resembles the
earthworm in shape. As in the case of the
Thread Worms, the female worm very much
exceeds the male worm in size. Whilst the
Thread Worm inhabits the large intestine of
children, the round worm is found in the
small bowel, or that portion of the intestine
which immediately comes off from the stomach
and makes up the succeeding twenty feet in
length of the digestive tube. Adults, of course,
are frequently also affected with Round
Worms, and it may be added that they are
also subject to be troubled with Thread
Worms. The danger of the Round Worm ap-
pears to be that in some cases the parasite
has the habit of making its way through the
walls of the intestine. Occasionally it will
pass into the stomach from the bowel itself,
and it has also been known to cause liver
troubles, when one of these parasites has
contrived to pass from the bowel into the duct
or tube which leads the bile from the liver
into the intestine.
If the worm penetrates from the bowel into
the general cavity of the belly, inflammation
of a fatal kind may be set up. The symp-
toms are very much like those produced by
the presence of the Thread Worm. In addi-
tion, however, a good deal of thirst repre-
sented in patients, along with a disturbance
of sleep, with a debased appetite, the patient
developing a liking for all sorts of strange and
unwonted foods. Itching of the nose may also
be here a prominent symptom.
PIN WORM, THREAD WORM, OR
SEAT WORM
Is an inhabitant of the lower bowel.
The Long Thread Worm measures from one
inch to two inches in length, the upper por-
tion being thin and the lower two-thirds about
twice as thick. This variety also infests the
large intestines and the rectum.
The common Thread Worm derives its name
from its thread-like appearance. The average
length is about one : third of an inch, this de-
scription applying to the female worm. The
male worms are much smaller, and do not ex-
hibit half the length of the females. The
favorite situation of the Thread Worm is the
large-bowel which forms the terminal portion
of the intestines. These worms cause severe
itching at the lower passage and picking at
the nose. Anaemia, restlessness, irritability
and loss of appetite are also frequent symp-
toms. A child or adult so affected can find
no relief from the terrible itching, and conse-
quently becomes restless and upset at the
slightest provocation. A purgative medicine
will sometimes afford temporary relief by the
expulsion of some of the Worms congregated
near the but the Worms multiply so
quickly that jthe trouble returns. To get rid
of the Worms and their eggs, their nests also
must be removed, and that requires a specific
remedy. Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pel-
lets are unfailing in their results.
i .
STOMACH WORM EXPELLED,
And Health generally improved after
taking a few doses of Comstock’s
“Dead Shot” Worm Pellets.
Mrs. J.| O’Leary, of 111 Peel Street, Ballarat
East, Victoria, writes:—“A little daughter
of mine, Julia, was suffering from Stomach
Worms, and I decided to try Comstock’s
‘Dead Shot’ Worm Pellets. My daughter had
been ailing for some time, and was thin.
After taking a few doses of the Pellets and
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, a worm several
inches in length was expelled from the bowels,
which had the appearance of being a Stomach
Worm. She is still continuing the medicine,
and shows much improvement in health since
adopting this treatment. I have no objection
to your using these few lines for publication,
seeing that other children might be relieved
from suffering.”
TWO LITTLE GIRLS
Greatly distressed by Thread Worms.
Wonderful change effected.
Mrs. Maud Tongue, of Edward St., Charters
Towers,t Queensland, writes: —“My two little
daughters were afflicted with Thread Worms.
In fact, one of the children, Laura, was liter-
ally alive with them. I had recourse to many
remedies without success; the distressing
symptoms of restlessness at night, and peev-
ishness for a long •period, worried me con-
siderably until I came to try Comstock’s ‘Dead
Shot’ Worm Pellets and I found them most
effective. My children have now recovered
and enjoy their sleep and make flesh, whereas
they both previously grew thin. I now re-
commend your medicine as a sure remedy,
having derived immense benefit from its use.”
ALIVE WITH WORMS.
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets
effectual when other so-called
remedies failed.
Mrs. M. Johnson, 135 Elizabeth Street, Wel-
lington, N.Z., writes:—“Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of Com-
stock's ‘Dead Shot’ Worm Pellets. My little
girl, aged three years, was very bad, continu-
ally picking her nose, and jumping about in
her sleep at nights, till she was afraid of being
left alone night or day. My husband, after bring-
ing home several different so-called remedies
and ‘certain cures,’ all of no earthly good,
decided to give Comstock’s ‘Dead Shot’ Worm
Pellets a fair trial. I smiled when I saw what
he had, as I was sick and tired of trying to
cure the poor child. After taking the first
dose the result was marvellous, she must have
been simply alive with worms. I continued
the treatment, giving her a pellet in the
morning and a teaspoonful of castor oil at
night, and I am pleased to say that she is
thoroughly cured, and has had no return of
the symptoms.”
FORTY WORMS
From a Two-Year-Old Child. From
Ten to Fourteen Inches Long.
The general ill-health of many children is
due to the presence of worms, and parents
should keep a sharp eye on their children if
there is a suspicion of their presence. The
wonderful effectiveness of jGomstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets is strikingly illustrated
in the statement of Mrs. .Tonikait, of Tairua,
New Zealand, whose little girl got rid of forty
worms of large size. Mrs. Jonikait’s letter is
as follows: “I am still giving Comstock’s ‘Dead
Shot’ Worm Pellets to my litle girl and boy,
and they are both improving in health since
taking these Pellets. The little girl is just
two years old, and since taking your medicine
she has passed forty worms. They have been
all very large (from ten to fourteen inches
long). I hope by still using your Worm
Pellets that she will soon be rid of them all.
One day last week, after taking one dose of
the Pellets, she passed nine worms. I mean
to keep on using Comstock’s ‘Dead Shot’ Worm
Pellets till the children are cured of the
worms, for I think they are dreadful things
for children to have. You have my permis-
sion to publish this letter.”
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets are a
scientific preparation, prepared in the form of
a sweet that children eagerly take. They are
packed in glass tubes with full directions in
each, and are for sale by chemists and stores
generally at 2s. 9d. per packet (or six packets
for 155.); and if unable to obtain locally, will
be mailed post free on receipt of price. Pre-
pared only by the W. H. Comstock Co.. Ltd.,
23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.; and Parish
Street, Wellington, N.Z.
RHEUMATISM, LUMBAGO AND
SCIATICA.
A sudden twinge of pain is generally the
first warning of an attack of Rheumatism. It
feels as if the disease were in the bone or
muscles, but the real cause of Rheumatism is
the Uric Acid in the blood.
There are three forms of this complaint,
acute rheumatism, chronic rheumatism, and
muscular rheumatism. Acute rheuipatism is
the inflammation of a membrane known as the
synovial membrane, which lines the joints,
and which also extends to various parts
of the body apart from the joints.
Wherever this membrane extends acute rheu-
matism may. Many supposed deaths from
heart disease are caused by acute rheumatism
attacking the heart. This phage of rheuma-
tism is hereditary, and is not necessafily
caused by exposure, as is supposed. Chronic
rheumatism is not so painful, but more per-
sistent, and may attack different parts until
it finally becomes fixed in one joint, when lit
is most difficult to remove. Muscular rheuma-
tism is more of the nature of neuralgia. It
is a dull pain, which increases in severity
until movement of any sort is attended by
convulsive and cramp-like pains, which causes
the patient to groan or cry aloud, and ofteij
wake him from sleep. An attack may last ,a
week or more at the time. When this coifi-
plaint occurs in the back or loins it is called
lumbago. The use of liniments) and rubbing
the parts is no doubt good, but will not be
attended by any great results without internal
remedies. Rheumatism at its worst is a sort
of living death. It chains a man to a chair,
or binds him to a bed, and metes out to him
a daily martyrdom. At the best it is a painful
malady, interfering alike with pleasure and
business.
In order to effectually overcome this com-
plaint Dr. Morse’s Indian Root. Pills and
Comstock's Nerve and Bone Liniment should
be used as directed. These two remedies have
been highly successful in all kinds of Rheu-
matism. because one cleanses the blood, while
the powerful penetrating influences of the
Liniment, acting through the pores of the
skin on the nerves, bones and muscles, over-
come the pain by relieving the i effect on the
delicate nerves and causing the'circulation of
the blood to be maintained through the af-
fected parts. -i
RELIEF AFTER FORTY YEARS.
Miss A. Mantle, of Eastern Terrace, Queens-
town, Otago, N.Z., writes: —“I have pleasure
in stating that my mother (Mrs. Mantle) has
received great benefit from your very) valu-
able Liniment for Rheumatism, after drying
many others, and receiving more pain than
benefit in the last forty years. It is the only
one that has really done good, and she is now
telling it to everyone she meets. My mother
has suffered much for many years, being now
seventy-four years of age, and is in better
health than I have seen her for years, for
which I have to give you many thanks, and
hope to see Comstock’s Nerve and Bone Lini-
ment continue in its good work.”
Comstock’s Nerve and Bone Liniment is ob-
tainable from all the leading chemists and
storekeepers, or will be sent post free on re-
ceipt of price, 2s. 6d. per bottle (or six bottles
13s. 6d.), by The W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd.,
23 Lang Street, Church Hill, Sydney; or Parish
Street, Wellington, N.Z.


The BEST HOUSE for all SMOKERS’ REQUISITES
SMOKE
SUNOL
$1
C53
The
Perfect
Pipe
Tobacco.
Highest Grade
Virginian.
Awarded Four
Gold Medals.
DARK OR
LIGHT.
In Plug: or Cut.
61-
per lb.
Post
Free.
fsd
THE BEST PIPES
OBTAINABLE.
They Surpass all others In QUALITY, FINISH,
DESICN and WORKMANSHIP.
Made from the Finest Quality Selected Old Briar
Root, with Superior Hand-Out Para Vulcanite
Mouthpieces.
Extra Heavy Sterling Silver Mounts.
IN ALL THE LEADING SHAPES
Price
3/-
eacH
(Post Free).
A DELIGHTFUL 8 FASCINATING Cigarette.
H
I
G
H
E
S
T
G
R
A
D
E
1*
o c
0*
it
7
i
A
U
n
ca
Three Witches
VIRGINIA
(iCARETTES
J*,
wr I
!s
&
i {
(mil
W
ORRIS
&sonsL t p
LONDON e
p
E
R
F
E
C
T
L
Y
M
A
D
E
Made from Selected Sun Ripe Virginian Tobacco.
They possess a Fragrance of Unique Excellence.
Smoked by Connoisseurs Everywhere.
. per 100,
Post Free.
Price
Mick Simmons Ltd.
Head Depot: HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, N.S.W. TSSuStS"''
fsd
GOLDEN KEY
Cigars de Luxe
(made in England).
Irresistibly Appeal to
all Co n no i sseurs
because of their
Exquisite Flavor
and
Delicate Aroma.
Two Strengths—
MILD anil MEDIUM.
Packed in HEAVY CEDAR
PRESENTATION CABINETS,
containing 50 Cigars,
22/6
33H3
XSOd
Try Sample Lot
of 5 Cigars,
packed in Cedar
Box Post Free.
26
Save “ GOLDEN KEY
Bands for Prizes.
Fairbanks-Morse Marine Engines
For Pleasure Craft and Work Boats
They start without cranking, run
smoothly and always develop more
than rated power. Simple.
Compact. All parts easily acces-
sible and interchangeable. Re-
markable for their reliability and
economy in fuel consumption. Price
Reasonable. Fully Guaranteed.
High Speed Engines, 334 to 24 H.P.
Slow Speed Engines, 734 and 15 H.P.
Write for Catalog N0.CV1939.
Fairbanks-Morse 1
Eclipse Engines
Small, sturdy engines especially suited
for pumping or running light machinery.
Simple. Compact. Two sizes. Will operate
any windmill pump.
Full description in Catalog N0.1939VR.
i
F.n.
Type
7^H.P.
Fairbanks-Morse
Oil Engines
Operate on Kerosene, Petrol (Gasoline)
or Distillate. Stationary and Portable
types. Sizes 2to 200 H.P.
Write for Catalog N0.AL1939.
Fairbanks, Morse & Co.
Wabash Ave. and Chicago,
Eldredge Place U. S. A.
Agents:
C. H. RELPH
Sidney, N S. W.
WEBSTER & CO., Ltd.
Brisbane, Queensland
MALLACH BROS.
Perth, W. A.
Schute, Bell & Go.
LIMITED,
WOOL- and PRODUCE BROKERS,
44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WOOL STORES Harris Street, Pyrmont.
Sell on Commission only.
New and thoroughly up-to-
date Stores. Inspection
invited. Personal atten-
tion a feature of the
business.
A Steadily growing com-
pany.
PRODUCE STORES—Athlone Place.
Do You Want to Increase Your Business?
sdf
Do you realise how easy it would be to make
“personal” calls on thousands of people who would
probably like to do business with you if they only knew
you and the good goods you could furnish them? You
can do this by sending to each one a personal, type-
written letter—Oh, no, you won’t have to write them
on your typewriter, that would take too long—but you
can typewrite them on the Multigraph.
WHAT THE MULTIGRAPH IS.
It is a multiple typewriter, used to produce sales let-
ters in quantities The typewritten effect is secured by
the use of typewriter type, a typewriter ribbon, and a
rubber platen, which produces a letter actually type-
written, not an imitation, mind you. They carry that
“personal” element, which invites a careful reading,
and which is totally lacking in the ordinary “circular”
letter. Does this not suggest to you how you could
place a knowledge of your goods right into the hands
and minds of thousands of customers at little more than
the cost of the postage?
OTHER USES OF THE MULTI GRAPH.
In addition to increasing your business by producing personal sales letters,
you can use it for producing reports, bulletins, notices, price lists, and other
office duplicating of highest quality, as clear as the original.
AN OFFICE PRINTING MACHINE.
It will print your office forms. Real printing, using electrotypes and
printers’ ink. You can print your own stationery, office or factory forms, adver-
tising matter, etc., right in your own office at your own convenience, with your own
help, and save money on it, too. We shall be glad to tell you more about the
Multigraph in relation to your office and business, with no obligation on your own
part, and you cannot buy a Multigraph unless you need it.
Stott Underwood,
70 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. 426 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings,'new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Sii.ent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, os 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is 3d. Parlor Tricks and
Games, If. Fortune-Telling by Cards, Is 2d. All The
Bulletin series. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales, Is 3d.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamers Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain fop- the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces. Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
108 6d. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is 6d.
sdfsdfsdf
HOJV|E CYCLOPEPin
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the rninds of young' and old. but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-workino for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle's
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases. Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. , Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits. Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s ' Cd.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
os 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secretß, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying 1 more.
Compare my prices with others ana
save your cash. gm~ Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Mark Up, Illustrated Guide to tlie Stage, la
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Du. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made East, la.
Practical Palmistry, is. Champions of the King,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post,
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevassk’s Advice to A
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free,
Bennarr Macfadden’s Works, all at 5s posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
ls2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. 100Nf,w
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster's Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
uound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and i
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing', Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY-


Dyspepsia
Tortured by Wind Round the Heart—Skin Became
Sallow—Awful Complications Made Life a Burden.
Bile Beans are Invaluable in Mature Age
FOR all complications arising from
stomach and liver trouble, Bile
Beans are a sure and effective
remedy. Mr. H. Bannister, of Potts
Street, East Brisbane, Q., says:—
“Severe attacks of dyspepsia and acute bilious
bouts, followed by terrible pains in the head,
made my life a misery. My whole system would
be shaken and strained by fits of retching. Bile
accumulated until it overflowed and caused me
much unpleasantness. My skin assumed an un-
natural yellow tint, and I always felt drowsy,
especially so after meals. Wind around the
heart, and pains in the chest and shoulders, all
added to my suffering, and, while these bouts
were on, my condition was very bad. After try-
ing a number of medicines, from which no good
resulted, I was persuaded to commence a course
of Bile Beans. I did so, and soon noticed that
the headaches and pains quickly disappeared.
After each dose I felt a corresponding benefit,
until, after a thorough course of Bile Beans, I
was once more enjoying perfect health, and I
have never been troubled with sickness since.
Although I have led a very strenuous life, now,
at 62 years of age, I feel in splendid condition.
“My wife, when at all out of sorts, takes a dose or two of Bile Beans, and
they soon put her right. She has also found them splendid for headaches.”
Every worker should always keep a box of Bile Beans near at hand. A dose or
two, on the slightest sign of any stomach trouble, will speedily put things right.
I
\y :
K
, M
A
' l 4
» V:. •
«?
‘u • > \
I .Mr. BANNISTER, completely ,
| cured by Bile Beam. \
The Standard Family Medicine.
eans
Bile Beans, being
mild in action, are
especially suitable
for children. All
mothers should keep
a box in the home,
for a dose or two in
time may prevent
much suffering and
expense. Bile Beans
are a fine tonic for
the jaded worker,
and the surest speci-
fic for all liver and
stomach troubles. Ob-
tainable of all chem-
ists and stores, 1/li
and 2/9 per box.
THE.
QUESTION of the DAY.
The question of to-day,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding day is
HAVE YOU USED PEARS' SOAP ?
If you have not, you have not
done your duty by your sKin and
complexion* If, on the other hand
—that is, on both hands, and on the
face, and on the skin generally—you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
happy, for you will have done the
best that possibly can be done tor
the skin’s health and beauty. There
can be no question about that.
PEARS has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years.
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
Sunrise.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
fiIHE wide land waited, the wind was
' I still.
■*- The river slept in its valley cosy ;
But 1...-I climbed to the crest of the hill
And watched the grey dawn growing rosy.
Little by little, it grew intense,
Like a maiden’s brow at a man’s love-
story,
Till hill and hollow, and tree and fence
Were all red-kindled with fresh, young
glory.
One petal of cloud, rose-red, hung nigh ;
The whole world waited all hushed, all
holy;
Then, pushing his forehead of fire on high,
A golden god in the East rose slowly.
A lavish god ! With a generous hand
He spilt his splendors—the hilltops dye-
ing;
The river mists in a huddled band
His warrior lights of gold sent flying.
The water reeds, in tall, green ranks,
With gems of the dew were lit and clus-
tered.
With horned heads lifted and red, wet flanks
In the lucerne-deeps the cattle mustered.
One moment only—mute, breathless, still.
Like mortal meeting a guest immortal —
The wide land lying aglow, a-thrill,
Beheld the god in the Eastern Portal.
Then rose a paean of joy and mirth,
The birds in the trees awoke and chor-
used,
A wind rushed over the waking earth,
And song o’er the green orchestral forest.
And 1....1 visioned another scene;
An ancient hymn to my soul came steal-
ing ;
I stood on a peak, high-set, serene,
And round about me were people kneeling.
In robes of wOrshin their forms were clad —
Rich rotes, gold-broidered, of silken white-
ness :
With eyes light welling, expectant, glad,
They watched the East and its growing
brightness.
Then rose the sun with a sudden leap,
The shadows down in the deeps were
routed ;
And, echoing far along the steep.
The kneeling host raised hands and
shouted.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Sparks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HOGARTH’S idle and industrious ap-
prentices were exactly represented
by the two of Vidler, the London
tailor, in 1816. They were Tom Dobcross
and Frank Goodwill. Tom early fell among
thieves, and learnt their ways. Frank went
absolutely unblemished through life.
Banker Ellesmere was very careless over
his jewellery. He thoughtlessly packed
away a lot of “sparks,” as diamonds are called
in the thieves’ kitchen lingo. These were in
a box of studs, which he thrust among his
shirts and other garments, in a portman-
teau, tossed on the roof of a travelling car-
riage. Dobcross, with the aid of Hoppy
Goff, nipped it off, and carried the swag to
Ikey Sol, a Whitechapel fence.
Hastily turning over the contents, Ikey
said “Clobber ! Giver yer thirty-five white,”
which means shillings. Dobcross gratefully
took it, and Ike afterwards found the
sparks. His failure to dispose of them re-
sulted in the conviction both of Dobcross
and Ike.
The Lord Chief Justice, who presided,
said this was a very painful case, a terrible
warning to the young. There could not be
a better evidence of the right path and the
wrong than in the contrast between Good-
will and Dobcross. Imagination carried
him over the future lives of these two. He
had the unpleasant duty of sentencing Dob-
cross to transportation to New South \\ ales,
away from all the benefits of civilisation, an
outcast in the wilds, far from noble
and beautiful London, in which his comrade
Goodwill luxuriated.
So Dob embarked in the Juliana, a con-
vict ship. The horrors had been consider-
ably mitigated. The authorities were filled
with the philanthropic idea that Australia
was a kind of boundless mill, where convicts
could be turned into honest settlers. the
Juliana had cages below, as for a mena-
gerie. Experience had created system, but
as easy as possible.
Ship not overloaded. Benevolent superin-
tendent and chaplain. Plenty of books. All
practicable exercise on deck. I airly good
passage, and the tucker nearly as good as
Dob ever had. Some soldiers aboard had
been at Waterloo, others in the 1 eninsula,
and they were allowed to yarn to the caged
animals. Dob relished what he saw ot the
globe, and felt he was learning. On the
whole, he didn’t think he had done so bad.
He decidedly enjoyed life in Sydney, being
tractable and obedient. A ticket of leav
soon was his. , ~
He took part in performances at the old
Vic., then under another name.
Gloster in “Jane Shore.” . This introduced
him to Emmeline Starchington, whom he
ultimately married. She had been a Londo
milliner’s apprentice, transported ' or . ’
under a delusion that they were spiffs, a.
allowed by trade custom She was esteemed
by the lady known as Margaret Catchpole.
and by Barrington, who had large lnfluen .
Dobcross learnt sheep farming. His wife
was a tiptop manager. She had a dress
making shop in the lower part of George
street The magnificent dress she made or
Gloster, in blue and silver, abundantly
spangled, set off by a copiously plunmd ha .
and the acting she taught him accounted
for his success. Her £ a “ e . Sho " s®®
popular as “East Lynne” to-day. Hob stuck
his sword point under her fifth rib b .V acci
dent, but this seemed only to intensify he
affection. The piercing shriek she gave
was the finest acting known on the Sydney
stage. Their children numbered Id, as roi-
lows: Emmeline Montague Dobcross, Jane
snore Dobcross, Barrington Bligh Dobcross,
George King Dobcross, Mary Ann Semirai-
mide Dobcross, Thomas Frank Dobcross;
Macarthur Dobcross, Alexandrina Dobcross,
\\ entworth Bland Dobcross, Margaret
Ophelia Dobcross, Stephen Cowper Dob-
cross, ®helagh Dobcross and John Dobcross.
This mere enumeration indicates that Dob
got pretty well up in the stirrups. Indeed
he became a rich squatter. Visiting Lon-
don,, he doubted whether to stay at Clar-
ldge’s, the Langham, or the Charing Cross.
However, he picked one.
Then he went to call on Frank Goodwill,
a poor, struggling journeyman tailor, with
a small wife and large family. Dob graci-
ously gave him £5.
Moral: Well, what?
MONKBARNS.
Told by the Trombone.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SIGNOR OMPHA, the trombone player
at the Royalty Theatre, withdrew his
prompt-side moustache from the ver-
mouth glass, sucked the imprisoned wine
from the moustache, and spoke anew upon
his wrongs.
“Signore Randolfo, I am of the orkest’!
I play the trombone. The Orkest-’ Union is
makea the troub’, for that ’cello of our or-
kest is what you shall call zambuk—eh—
not union man. So, also, the presidente
della dirretori —what you shall say chairr-
man of direct-or of the theatre —he shall
makea the troub’ because he shall say our
orkest’ is not good player—dam bad orkest’,
he say. Ghairrman of direct-or he is great-
ta bigga, fatta, balda man; he is autore of
the play, which shall not be produce only
that he is chairrman of direct-or. He is
greatta bigga, fatta, balda man—he is not
nice. He say dam bad orkest’. Per la
gambe delle Madonna, we say ‘dam bad
play!’
“The Orkest’ Union shall give no more
as one rehearsal unless management pay.
When we shall ask at treasuario for money
for drrress rehearsal, chairrman of direct-
or he say, ‘By Cristoforo Colombo, you have
rehearse for six night and one matinee at
my expense, and you know not yet to play.’
He say, ‘Pay for the rehearse! By Gior-
dana Bruno, I pay you with the kick,’ he
say. ‘The Dago with the brass horn of the
gramophone, he is worst.’ He mean me
with the trombone! He say, ‘Darnbad or-
kest’.’ He is greatta bigga, fatta, balda man
—not nice.
“He shall makea me so nervous that one
night I shall play the number 19 instead of
the number tree. Everybody then currse
me. The leading lady is to makea the faint
at the end of the second act and I blow
Rackoczsky march. Greatta bigga, fatta,
balda man say. ‘Dambad orkest’ ’; leading
lady say trombone man— me! —is mad;
little balda man who is stage-manager say
I haf the sherbit too much. All currse
me. Little Ebreo treasurer —Alberto his
name —say he fine me one performance,
bigga, thinna man —manager —Francisco his
name —he say nothing, but he look at me,
and look at me so much like hot iron 1 do
not like. Everybody shall say something.
The artist of scenery with beard of Carlo
Primo di Inghilterra shall make me the in-
sult till I ask him if he paint scenery in the
Marrble Bar. That give him the stop.
“Also, there is of directors another—Ar-
turo his name —and there is greatta bigga,
fatta typista. She take the note when the
producer, who is cowboy from America and
the grreat bigga, fatta, balda man look at
the dress rehearse and say the complimenta,
I don’t think. There is Josefo, the mecan-
ista drive the nail, drinka the beer; the
mecanista di elletrica, who show moonlight
one-half of stage, and makea other part
black out. All these—the press agenta who
write such lies of the leading lady that
nipple come not to the show—he even will
sav that dam trombone keep pipple out ot
the house. ‘Dam trombone !’ It is me .
“There is one man who shall not give me
the abusements. He is actor from England.
All say—greatta bigga, fatta, balda man,
producer who is cowboy; artista with Carlo
Primo di Inghilterra beard ; tall, cold man-
ager Francisco: greatta bigga, fatta typista,
and little Ebreo treasurer Alberto—all say
he too dam English, too much wool in the
Crain I not se! his brain, so of the wool I
might not spik ; but of the eyes I shall see
I spik—they are eyes of cippola, the boiled
onion. He will remember all the duke he
in England have met; but he forget his
lines Still, I do not hate him because he is
but the one who shall not make the contumely
for the trombone. So almost I love 11 “-
When he is on the stage making the forget-
ment of his part I look up to him so
friendlv and makea my instrumenta give
him a message of sympathy, French
bone shall have melancolia lika the h rencn
h °“Because he shall play the part so that
the greatta bigga, fatta. balda man curse
him, the producer ask him to deliver the
iroods by ring down curtain on Act the
Tree. He shall have but to press the but-
ton and the elletrica man shall give the
black out and the flyman he shall drop the
Curtain-if he is there. The curtain shall
Cot fall on a word but on the eighth bar of
number tree, while the leading lad> shal
make the faint. It is accidents that two
W of my score shall stick together because
of mv wife eating cioccolate an’ squash one
cioccolate between the two leaf. It is then
bv the mistake that I play the music for the
entrance of the heavy man and swell to
forte. Leading lady make the faint, ro
over, look at me an’ say Damn! Greatta
bigga fatta, balda man come round stage,
swear terrible; producer talk American, I
oCnrC nlavin s Pipole in front laugh. Very
long after curtain fall; no bell, no black out
Then English actor with the boiled onio
eye he say ‘Not my fault—it is the trom-
b°“lt is too much—the last straw that
make the worm gvrate. Then I makea the
resignment, an’ the Ebreo treasurer Alberto
fine me one performance, and the greatta
bigga faS? balda man he say, 'This unmn
orkest’ dambad orkest’. Give -me zambuks
nex’ time!’ ”
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


KIDNEY DISEASE PREYS ON THE MIND
The patient who has to keep getting up in the night
knows there is something seriously wrong with his
kidneys.
It preys on his mind, for kidney disease is well
known to be one of tiie hardest diseases to cure.
Patients are, therefore, very apt to grow disheart-
ened, but much may be done, even in advanced cases,
by careful dieting, and a thorough course of Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills taken in regular doses after
each meal with a glass of water. This flushes out the
kidneys and urinary system, and disposes of the
excess uric acid, which is the great cause of: —
Gravel, Urinary Disorders,
Distress in Relieving the
Bladder, Too free a flow,
Dropsy, Backache,
Pains in the Loins,
Heart Attacks, Lumbago,
Dizziness and Faintness,
Unnatural Drowsiness,
Rheumatism, Sciatica.
NOTE. —Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are not
for constipation, or disorders of the liver, stomach,
and bowels. They are solely for the kidneys and
bladder, and regulate the urinary system like laxative
medicines regulate the bowels. They are safe for
all —men and women, old and young.
41 Every
Picture
Tells a
Story r
Tired out from morning till night —
Head had —heart had —rheumatic & dropsical —
Have you suspected your kidneysf
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold
by all Chemists and Stores at 2/9 per
bottle (6 bottles, 15/3), or posted free
by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
Sydney People Cured
A SYDNEY WOMAN.
Mrs. E. Furness, No. 1 McLaughlin Terrace, Church
Street, Camperdown, Sydney, says: “For years I was a
martyr to severe backache and other distressing symptoms of
Kidney trouble. The pain in my back was awful, especi-
ally if I had to do any stooping or move about quickly. It
seemed to centre just above the kidneys, and never left me,
day or night. My secretions were much affected, being
thick and cloudy, and I always felt tired and had no energy
for anything. I tried all sorts of medicines, but it was
not until I had been using Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills for
a day or so that I got anv relief from my suffering. These
pills were recommended to me, and proved to be the very
thing I wanted. Before 1 had finished one bottle I felt very
much better, and by the time I had used four bottles of the
pills the pain in my back had gone, and I was quite well
again. Over six months have elapsed since my cure was
effected, and I have been free of every symptom of Kidney
trouble ever since. I now feel a different woman, thanks to
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.”
A SYDNEY MAN.
Mrs. Andrew McDonald, 71 Denison Street, Balmain,
says: “For three years my husband was bad with a lame
hack. All the time he did no work, his back was so
crippled. lie always reckoned it was caused by the kidneys,
lie was sometimes free of pain, but at other times he could
scarcely get out of bed, feeling, he would say, as if he were
gone in the loins. Mr. P. Smith, of Cheltenham Street,
who had been cured by Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, was
always telling him to get them, and he did get some at last.
These pills soon put him on his feet, and he was able to go
to work, and has kept at it regularly ever since. My son
also used them for severe backache, and two bottles stopped
the pain.”
Mrs. McDonald confirms the above: “Ten years ago j
made the above statement, and I am now pleased to bring it
up to date by telling you that my husband is still quite free
of every symptom of kidney trouble. My son’s cure was also
permanent, for he has never had backache since.”
sdf
DOARS
Backache
Kidney
PILLS
sdfsdfsd
Elder Man’s Lane.
IV.— BENNO AND HIS OLD 'UNS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BLUE’S Point-road, that runs dowh to
the Horse Ferry on the other side of
the water —and rip from it for that
inatter—is about the cruellest hill in Aus-
tralia. for horses. The heaviest goods, the
tans laden with furniture, the carts laden
tvith machinery, drain-pipes, etc., for the
Northern Suburbs, go across and up there.
And there are Government ballast and blue-
metal wharves, and saw-mills and timber-
yards at the bottom of that hill. Time was,
.when sensitive residents would draw their
blinds and shut their doors rather than wit-
ness the torture of horses struggling up there
on a blazing summer’s day. Time was,
when angry men in shirt sleeves went down
into that road and expostulated with angry,
over-wrought or brutal drivers till they were
cowed. But there are jibbing brutes of
horses to be considered, and callous brutes of
employers, and —ah! well, you can’t take
everything into consideration. Time was
when my old friend, Benno the bottle-o,
drew his turn-out into the shade of the big
old fig-trees under the church at the top of
the hill, and went back and thrashed the
most notoriously brutal driver well and good.
Later, Benno paid his fine, with his mouth
shut close as to the cause of his disorderly
conduct.
“Gorblimy! I dealt it out to the bloke,”
said Benno to me, outside the court (where
I had business, too, unfortunately—con-
nected with a chronic contempt of Civil Pro-
cess) “but I ain’t no informer. That’s the
p’liees’ look-out.”
“But he’s been fined, too,” I said, “and
he’ll probably treat that horse worse when
he gets him home, if he didn’t do it before.”
“No, he won’t,” said Benno. “I’ve got
friends in a business way out where he
lives; an’ I tole him if he does I’ll hear of
it, an’ I’ll meet him on the punt some quiet
day.” *
Now, I wonder if Benno was ever inside
a church in his life? Since his christening,
I mean.
The poorer people seem kinder to their
beasts in the aforesaid overburdened world
than the rich. Perhaps it’s because they
bear the burdens, too ; and feel it, when they
chock the wheels behind, on a steep hill, and
rub old Geddup’s nose and rumple his mane,
and slap the old fellow sympathetically and
encouragingly on the withers. The man
that Benno partly slew had jabbed his horse
with the little blade of his penknife when
he thought no one was looking; but the
Angels of Mercy, maybe, and also a Sussex-
street bottle-o were on the look out, and
caught him at it. Yes, Benno is a “peaceful
sort o’ cove,” as a rule; but he was an
angry bottle-o that day.
Most boftle-o horses I have ndticed on the
Horse Ferry and in Elder Man’s Lane seem
sleek and well treated, and Benno’s is a
shining example. “Gorblimjy!” he said, in
depreciation of ili-j'udged and tactless com-
mendation; “any bloke can treat d. horse
like a horse!”
Benno’s chief hare is for his “Old ’Uns.”
They live in a neat and well-kept little
weatherboard box, in a little mean street on
the edge of Slum Land. There are vines on
the verandah and wooden arrangements
painted green under it, with plants in kero-
sene tins (also painted green) that Benno
has picked up on his rounds. The verandah
is bricked and scrubbed; the stone step at
its whitest; and the two little “plots,” on
each side of the gate in front (that Benno
might have covered with four of his hand-
kerchiefs —if he kept so many) are well
grassed. Nothing comes amiss to Benno-—a
few fancy tiles or bricks for the back yard ;
or a likely “rock” or two for a “bit er rock-
ery” the old man was makin’; or a box, or
bit er wire nettin’ —the “Old ’Uns” keep
pigeons and a hen or two —or a old paint
brush an ’a bit er paint or lime from the
buildin’s. “An’, maybe a handful o’ nails
or bit er hoilcloth or any blamed thing like
that,” says Benno. “They all conies in
handy for the Old ’Un. He’s alius potterin’
round and tinkerin’ at somethin’. No matter
what you bring him he’ll make something of
it, if lie has to stay awake all night study-
in’ it out. He’s got a bit of a shed in the
yard, an’ he’s hard at work makin’ a easy
chair out of two cement barrels for the
kitchen. I wouldn’t like to sit in it long
when it’s finished. If I was to hire a team
and fetch home that old engine boiler in
Berry’s Bay it ’ud shorten his days, because
he couldn’t get it in an’ make something of
it. Gorblimy, I think the Old ’Un would
tackle it in the street with cold chisels!”
The Old ’Uns’ crib never seems to be
troubled with heat or dust on the hottest
and dustiest days. It always smells, as well
as feels, cool and clean. The parlor is fur-
nished in ancient fashion with everything
too large for it and too much of everything.
There are the usual old pictures and por-
traits on the walls with, of course, the crude
plain and colored prints in vandyked brown
oilcloth and fancy paper frames. And so
on. And the big lamp with a shade. And,
of course, the slippery black liorse-hair, and
more slippery “antimacassars” - r and all
those penitential things with which our
grandmothers used to make our grand-
fathers, our fathers and ourselves supremely
uncomfortable and miserably unhappy. But
Benno has a crib of his own over “the
stables” —his town bachelor apartments, so
to speak.
Benno’s male Old ’Un looks as if he
might have been a “Tough ’Un” in his time.
He is a big. old man, bent very much at an
angle from the hips, very clean, and mostly
in washed pants, waistcoat and shirt sleeves.
He walks with hands clasped behind, in a
manner suggestive of carrying an imaginary
sheet of bark on his back, when he goes
down to the corner for his morning or evening
pint-o’-beer. PerhaDs he carried many
a sheet of red stringy-bark on his back in
other days. He has a square face, clean-
shaven but for his grey frill beard. He has
a great fund of early-days humor and anec-
dote. “The Old ’Un’s gettin’ a bit shaky on
his pins,” says Benno. Benno always
reckons that it is up to a bloke to stick to
his Old ’Uns when theii- pins go back on
them. “I remember the , day,” he says, re-
miniscently, il when the Old ’Un was Spry
on them old pins of his —arid handy with
his props, too.”
The maternal Old ’Un is the usual little,
rusty, best-bib-an’-tucker-for-company, old
laboring-class mother of the small family.
She is hospitable, wonderfully clear and
keen and bright, and with all the quaint,
quizzical humor of her type. Her son is
known to her as “Ernest,” spoken with that
pathetic sort of indescribable quaver of half-
compassion (or is there an undertone of'
self-reproach?) of a mother whose Iwart is
away in the past (and in other lands per-
haps) with another bov who went wrong.
Benno calls her simply “Mother”; but she
is referred to me affectionately and fami-
liarly as “The Old Gal,” and known to one
or two other privileged friends as “Benno’s
Old Gal.”
Both the Old ’Uns remember a great deal
of Old Sydney, and corroborate —or correct
—each other. They remember the first loco-
motives being drawn up King-street from
the ship by horses (or was it bullocks?) on
rails temporarily laid, and shifted ahead in
sections; and drawn thus down George-
street and up to old fledfern railway sta-
tion. They remember the “Bells on Camp-
bell’s Wharf,” and how long they lay there
- —and why. I wonder whether those bells
are ringing now, and if so where?
“They’ve, got a bit saved up for a rainy
day, and it makes ’em feel independent,”
says Benno. “But the rainy day won’t come
in my time if I can help it. They’ve had
enough rainy days. An’ the Old Gal’s got a
bit saved up special, an’ —I know what
that’s for. That’s the sort of Old ’Un’s
mine is. There’s allers someone dyin’ or
gettin’ born, or gettin’ the measles, in our
lane, and it keeps the Old Gal goin’ an’
happy an’ contented. An’ the Old ’Un is
handy an’ can potter round an’ help in
trouble amongst the neighbors.”
Benno may be anything between 25 and
50. He is clean shaven, and is square-
featured, too. Head well shaped, face with
a hint of haggardness, and eyes with a
glint at times. Nothing in his appearance
that would suggest his speech. He looks as
if he should have been fairly well-educated,
and married fairly young and well. Has a
strictly fatherly way with “kids,” and they
respect and seem to like him. Hair thick and
straight up round in front like a well-made
brush, but greying fast and seeming to be
greyer at some times —and in some lights—
than at others. Now, where is the tragedy?
Benno hinted to me one evening, in a
softened mood, that there had been a “bit o’
skirt once.” She worked in a factory, and
was a tidy piece. Her Old ’Un “shick-
ered” till he got “mucked” every pay day.
He was fond of the girl, and sorry for her;
but he couldn’t keep two homes then
she would never have hit it with l n,J
’Uns. “Ah, well! Let’er go? sL R. ° ld
‘Sne done all the better fo/me tuniin’ h°'
down .anyway ; so there was no harm done-’
lie added in justification. “She mar ! ',
bloke m a good line and with no Old -tt*
Gorblimy ! the Old ’Uns saw me into ih 1
world an on my pins, an’ I’ve eoitor ne
them out.” goiter see
. lle , ha f two married sisters and one mar
neo brother, and a younger brother aw/v
somewheres. The younger sister hao
ried badly. “The blanker won’t work ”
Benno. ’ s<ua
to«“f FhK. someone ’ 5 help he,,
“I s’pose so!” lie snorted, and I saw there
was no more thoroughfare in that direction
Then, one evening, I got the kev
were coming on to the Horse Ferrv' a fie!
sunset, and I noticed that Benno pointodh
gnored the salutation of a rather mean
clothes' ltte WOrkman in his Sunday
“Did you see that bloke?” he said to me
scowling back blokeward as he drew up for’!
ard. "He’s a blacksmith ’way back nn
Crow’s Nest wav. There’s a big family 0
em on the Shore doin’ well. His Old Tm
was the best blacksmith on the Shore Thp
old bloke only left the forge three months
ago, ap ever since they’ve been tryin’ to
get him the pension, but they bungled it un
somehow. So now they’ve got him into an
institution—the Salvation Army or the
Wowser Brethren, or some, other d- d
home; I forgit where it is,. They reckon
the Home people will get the pension—an’
I reckon they will, too. There’s too many
well-off people in this country that do mean
things with their Old ’Uns. ■ They want
blanky well showin’ up; an’ some of you
writin’ coves orter do it.” And here Benno
relapsed into the unwritten language. But
I understood, and was glad that I had
never suggested the pension in connection
with the Old ’Uns, to Benno.
There’s a good deal of humanity and
charity, and not a little consideration and
pride in Gorblimy circles. For instance,
my friend once reckoned, to me, while on
his hobby, that no Old ’Uns should be
reminded that they’re old and past work.
And, as we passed off the Horse Ferry
that evening, and up Elder Man’s Lane, I
on the narrow footpath and Benno on the
front of his well-laden cart, with his hair
at its greyest in the fading light of after-
sunset, I realised that we both were in
Elder Man’s Lane and well past Middle Age
Corner.
And up at the end of the Lane I fancied,
as in a circle of dream-light, two old figures
-—one tall and bent and one prim and wiry
—passing out. Passing out, independent
of Government or public or private charity,
independent of daughter-in-law or son-in-
law, and untroubled and unhumiliated by
these, or by the possible tyranny of possibly
spoilt grandchildren.
The Old ’Uns are passing out! And Benno
follows them proteetingly—w r ith none to fol-
low him.
HENRY LAWSON.


a W estinghcmse
Oil Engine
For STATIONARY
and MARINE
PURPOSES
I 1 *. ■ '•
mm
m
■
■ :■
From 7 to 40»H.P.
No Carburetter or Vaporiser,
No Ignition Apparatus.
Makes the following claims upon
your attention—
1 — It uses cheap lamp oil (such as kero-
sene), and other residuals.
2 The oil is injected directly into the
cylinder, thus dispensing with unre-
liable and inefficient vaporisers.
3 It is very simple in construction, there
being no electric ignition or other
complicated mechanism.
4 Its speeds are such that electric generators
and centrifugal pumps may be coupled
direct.
5 No skilled labor is required, the supply
of fuel and lubricant being all the
attention necessary.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM
The Westinghouse Brake Company of Australasia Ltd.,
GEORGE STREET, CONCORD WEST, N.S>W.
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
New Zealand Agents: Philips & Pike, Wellington.
eers all knew the merits of-
'
Stirling Water Tube Boilers,
Nichols’ Slow Speed Boiler
Feed Pumps,
Auld’s Reducing Valves,
Dewrance Steam Valves,
Apexior Boiler Preparation.
WE ARE SOLE AGENTS, AND WILL SEND
YOU FULL INFORMATION PROMPTLY.
Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
89 CLARENCE
STREET,
fsd
Economy Tiering Machine.
-
A machine for stacking all goods to
any height limited by size of machine.
For Stacking Wool and Skins in Woolsheds.
For Stacking Stores for Storekeepers.
For Stacking any goods in a quick, cheap and
effective way.
Parsons Trading Co.,
Write for full particulars to 540 Kent St., Sydney.
fsdfsdfsd
fsdfsdfsd
fsdfsdf
UNION MARINE ENGINES
Arc Now Guaranteed to Run on Kerosene.
This Means a Reduction of 30 Per Cent, on Running Costs.
The “ONION” KEROSENE ENGINE is just as
and EFFICIENT as the Benzine Engine.
p RICES REMAIN AS BEFORE. No Complicated System Involved.
KEROSENE or BENZINE at Your Pleasure.
CATALOGUE ON APPLICATION.
UNION OIL ENGINE CO.,
232 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
loot; Well After Yourself
If you consider for one moment how completely your comfort, happiness and success
in life are dependent upon the possession of health, you will realise how unwise it is
to allow yourself to get run down or to neglect to take steps healthwards the moment
you find yourself suffering from any complaint likely to impair your powers or sap
your vitality. Without degenerating into a faddist or becoming unduly solicitous
about yourself, you should, nevertheless, exercise continual watch over your
health, and at the first appearance of any warning symptoms set about to remove
them. Remember that you may keep free from disease and remain hale and hearty
by means of an occasional dose of Beecham’s Pills. A very great number of the ills
that flesh is heir to have their rise in the digestive system and consequently the
surest method of preventing ill-health is to
Talje
from time to time a digestive tonic of the proven efficacy of Beecham’s Pills. This
medicine cleanses the system, cures and prevents dyspepsia, keeps the liver and
kidneys in order, and regulates the bowels. At all times you can confidently rely upon
Bcecban’s pills.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price till (56 pills) & 219 (168 pills).
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
. . . AT . . .
THE BANKING HOUSE, 228 Pitt Street,
Opposite PALACE THEATRE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LENDS MONEY ON ALL SECURITIES, including Furniture,
FROM 10 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
FRED. McWILLIAM, Manager
HIGH-SPEED TENONING MACHINE.
BUILDERS, CABINET MAKERS and JOINERS
There is only one way
by installing
KIRCHNERS
High Speed 8 Modern Labor Saving Machines
Write for Information and Advice
to the MANUFACTURERS,
KIRGHNER & GO.,
32 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
WAVERLEY CARS
The
Waver ley
is British Built.
12/14 h.p.,
4-cyl. Bosch
Magneto,
Zenith Carburetter,
9ft. Wheel Base.
£330 Nett.
The Doctor’s Ideal Car.
Write for Catalogues.
The Famous INDIAN Motor Cycle,
Twin-cyl., 7 h.p., Free Engine Clutch,
Two-Speed Gear.
Metz 22
4-cyl., 22 h.p.,
Friction Drive,
Water-Cooled.
The Finest Runabout In
the World. The
Famous- Hill Climber.
£lB5 nett.
Sole Agents:
BROWN 8 HELLICAR LTD.,
375 Kent Street
SYDNEY.
on
HORSES
FLINT’S MEDICATED OIL
Is without doubt the most surprisingly prompt cure for Saddle Calls, Cuts,
Fistula or Broken Knees on horses. It possesses the rare merit of healing
without leaving any blemish, the hair growing in the natural colour. This
distinguishes Flint’s Oil from every other preparation. Price 35., from most
stores throughout Australia, and procurable through any wholesale house
such as Elliott Bros., Sydney and Brisbane, or from
G* Os FLINT, Manufacturing Chemist, ADELAIDE.
“WATEROUS” SAW MILLING
RAISES THE PROFITS.
It takes no more men to run a fast mill than a slow one. That’s why
it will pay you to put in a “Waterous.”
A mill that will cut out waste and keep up the output will earn
money for you. That’s another reason for the “Waterous.”
A mill that is built to give the maximum service, * with a minimum
amount of trouble, will more than pay for its installation. Another
reason why you should have a “Waterous.”
Our mill expert would like to tell you other reasons why “Waterous”
Circular and Log Band Mills deserve your investigation and choice.
Will you ask him to go into the matter? x
T. M. GOOD ALL 8 Co. Ltd.
Universal Machinery Merchants,
3 0 3-3 05 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Fire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL-,
Write for our Catalogue, or cail and inspect.
MACK LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY,
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
sdfsdfsd
Fireproof BtiildihgT^
Fibro-Cement (Asbestos) Skccts
at the cost of Weatherboards.
Suitable fbr Dwellings, Theatres
Warehouses, etc. Ha,, *»
Timber is dear, so is labor. You onlv rpm.i, t
three-fourths the quantity of studding and labL a f bout
building- of Fibro-Cemem
LOOK AT THE SAVING TI|AT IS MADE
FAro-Cementu-rtWgjidjM
FIRE, HEAT, ROT and ANT PROOF
Easily erected by ordinary carpenter. Outlasts
iron, or lath and plas er StS tlrnh e>‘,
CONSTANTLY IMPROVES WITH LAPSE OF TIM*
Supplied also in Slates for roofing.
Write fer Llthes and Catalan L to sole importers
JAMES HARDIE & CO
Circular Quay West, Sydney. ’
A Tonic
of
Medicinal
Value.
WOLFE
. .SCHNAPPS
Buy
Whole
Bottles.
IP
M
mi
mmm-.
m.
■
Wbt£*
&
-
mmm
STEAM PIPE INSULATION,
with Newall’s Magnesia Steam Pipe Coverings,
MEANS THE MOST EFFICIENT ANB PERMANENT LAGGING PROCURABLE.
LARGE STOCKS
Coverings, Bends, Flange
Covering, etc.
With 1" Covering, the saving of heat
effected over Unlagged Pipe is from
80 to 85% Write for Catalogues.
J. WILDRIDGE S SINCLAIR LTD
* *
82 Pitt St., Sydney.
Prell’s Buildings, Melbourne.
228 Elizabeth st., Brisbane.
St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRON FOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Valves, Pumps, Pluming,
Patent “ Nelyambo ” Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Pluming, Castings, Porgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought Iron Work ,
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria
fsdfsdfsd
fsdfsd
WALKER, HORROCKS LTD.,
BIRMINGHAM.
AUSTIN
OIL ENGINES.
SELF-STARTING
and STOPPING.
PREMIER
ACCUMULATORS.
Sole Agents :
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD.,
307-11 KENT STREET,
380 Bourse Street
SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE.
“A Fan for
Every Service”—
- :
p
.
The popularity of the “Buffalo'* is largely due to the growing recog-
nition of the numerous and varied applications in which they are useful.
For fIODERN SHOP AND FACTORY EQUIPMENT they are particularly adapted for—
BLOWlNG—Supplying blast for Cupolas, Forges, Furnaces, Forced Draft, etc.
VENTILATING AND COOLING Shops, Factories, Engine Rooms, Workshops, Laundries, etc.
EXHAUSTING Steam, Smoke, Gas, Fumes, etc.; Shavings and Refuse from Woodworking Plants; and
Dust from Abrasive and Buffing Wheels.
Estimates for SPECIAL HEATING AND DRYING PLANTS.
Write for Full Descriptive Catalogue.
■
Engineers and Machinery N
60 Clarence St., Sydney.
will
i
_'-iv _ . '
.umt^ l
The “ABBO
99
Filter.
An Australian Production of tHe Highest Merit.
Proved by Severest
Bacteriological Tests.
AVOID TYPHOID and
HYDATIDS.
fsdfsdfsd
Bar Filters for Hotels, etc.,
a Speciality.
PRICES from I
irxO-
fsdfsdf
Sale
Manufacturers
N. GUTHRIDGE Iffi
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS, SYDNEY
525 CBLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
