

The EMBODIMENT OF PERFECTION
HI. <3r. WATISJOVS «Sfc CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
FOR -
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
I EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
The HOUSEWIFE WHO NEEDS MONEY
to help her over temporary financial troubles will find a loan from us of real convenience. We make conditions HELPFUL
our chentsi Prompt advances are made under fair and clearly-defined terms AT THE LOWEST INTEREST IN
AUSTRALIA. Loans from £5 upon Furniture (without removal), Jewellery, Deeds of Land, Interests under Wills, etc.
All correspondence is treated personally and confidentially by our manager. Write or call for particulars.
N.S.W. MONT DE PIETE D. 8 I. Co. Limited
Head Office: 74 Castlereagh Street 74, Sydney
Opposite National Amphitheatre.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
194 George Street West, Sydney
155 George Street West, Sydney
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W. 40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne 50 William Street, Perth, W.A.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
Williams’s, I"S Whisky
HOBART.
(adley’s Orient f;otsl.
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING •*>>■
Guarantkkd
J. C. Ludowcci & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
it back.
1 must have
PineAppk Brand
77
CHUBB’S
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
32 RECIPES
for preparing a variety of the most
dainty Desserts with
HANSENS
Junket,
will be forwarded, Post Free to Any
Address, on application to
T. 8., Box 577, C.P.0., Sydney.
CORD TYRES
are specially constructed to ensure Long Service.
THE SILVER I OWN RUBBER CO.,
SYDNEY-MELBOURNE—NEWCASTLE
DRIHK
9
WHITE MALTHOID.
Those who dwell under the trying influence of a semi-
tropical sun appreciate the fact that the roof of a house is a
vital factor in the matter of health and comfort.
WHITE MALTHOID was introduced, and evils arising from
the ordinary roofing materials generally adopted were over-
come.
Without dilating on the unsuitability /of other materials,
WHITE MALTHOID without doubt is the coolest and most
delightful roofing in the world.
We will be only too pleased to send you full particulars.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT CO., CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
D. S. Evans, Australasian Manager.
MANUFACTURERS OF AMIWUD.
HOPPER WACCOHS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY U?
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L™
Locomotive Builders,
Ceneral, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
DAVEY PAXMAN
STEAM ENGINES
Portable, Stationary & Traction.
Those who are thoroughly informed on the
power question, who know from experience what
constitutes a good steam engine, choose the Davey
Paxman,
Its great power, strength, durability, economy,
uniform running and quick steaming have won for
it praise the world over.
Portables in stock. Write for Catalogue.
Also all engines, pumps, irrigation and water
MattlirtueS?
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
352 KENT STREET,
(near King Street) SYDNEY.
HELIDON SPA
The Helidon Spa Water Co., in its extensive distribution, has
placed “the rational water cure” within reach of all.
STARKEYS LTD., Agents,
Phillip St., Sydney, and Red fern
The Bulletin
V 01.34— No. 1716.1
Thursday, January 2, 1913.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper


THE AUSTRALIAN BOOK-BUYER.
A Monthly Journal of Book News and Reviews,
Sih^ft ht inS,d& ™ny °Photo\S S of FavoKte nt Wrif e n rs e . CdoteS ° D B °° ks and Author «- Illustrated
ISSUED MONTHLY. SENT POST FREE, 1/6 per annum.
January Issue sent free to any address as Specimen Copy
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP., BID., 238 Pit, street. Sydney.
Hudson’s EUMENTHftT. T™tt>
Powder secures sound
-■ WHiTE teeth.
Some practical reasons why Hudson’s
Eumenthol Tooth Powder should be
used for the Preservation of the Teeth.
BECAUSE it contains the Germicidal and
olZ‘ c K, S , ?“•“ “SJSJG?
s, s <»V fes
S 1"™. y rd« ,n u “. Prt« , e .
H : OSt ‘ ree ° n receipt of stamps I
HU DSON S EUMENTHftl
■I .0 vo E R N k T^ r L ee C t H 1™S e A v L C0 - ltd.
.HOW TO USB IHE POWDER.i
CSC
The Red Page
The 1912 Australasian Cup
Results
The Literature Race Meeting just closed
furnished some good fields, but, though the
sport was good, the quality of the starters
was, on the whole, disappointing, No horse,
except the winners of the Dramatic Stakes,
the Biographical Steeplechase and the De-
scriptive Plate, showed remarkable form, and
few records were broken; while in the Fic-
tion Hurdles and the Poetry Cup, though
there was a mob of starters, the times were
slow, and in the estimate; of the ring no
horse in either of these important races
showed any signs of becoming a likely future
Literary Cup winner.
jf,
For the first race, the Poetry Cup, the
Maoriland-bred Poems, ridden by Hubert
Church, was well-backed by visiting Maori-
land sportsmen; Irish Lords f ridden by
Charles Henry Souter, •similarly received
some Adelaide support, and was, indeed,
backed to win by a well-known Sydney tip-
ster ; Deiced Petals, a slim mare, with Fred-
erick T. Macartney in the saddle, was
thought by connoisseurs to have a chance,
despite its lhck yf size; add Verses, trained
by the late Wilfrid Mailler, had some back-
ing, chiefly, however, for sentimental reasons.
For the first half of the race, a very ordin-
ary looking horse, Calypso, ridden by John
Bernard O’Hara, led, but his effort was
brief, and he was soon overhauled by horses
of finer quality. Then Poems looked like
a winner, but he was carrying too much
weight-—most of it blank verse—and in the
straight The New Life, an unbacked out-
sider, recklessly ridden by William Block-
sidge, romped home. There was an unex-
pected vigor in this ungainly, badly trained
horse that enabled him to beat his more
skilled rivals. Poems dead-heated, a length
behind, with Irish Lords for second place.
Also ran: A Wine Shop Madonna (J. Alex.
Allan), Penetralia (Sydney Jephcott), An
Austral Garden of Verse (M. P. Hansen and
D. McLachlan) and others. “Bellerive” re-
fused to start; and his disappointed jockey
stated that the horse objected to run any-
where except in the Answers to Correspon-
dents’ training track. The time was two
minutes slower than last year, and the bet-
ting half-hearted. The public never seems
to take much interest in the Poetry Cup.
The ring believes, however, that a very
different rac-e would have eventuated if The
Bush, owned by Bernard O’Dowd, had made
its final acceptance in time. From the
O’Dowd stable something good is always
expected, despite the fact that the only ex-
ercise tracks are laid out in the Melbourne
Supreme Court Library. However, The
Bush, which is rumored to have put up some
startling performances in training beneath
the dome of the Library, will be in ample
time to compete for the 1913 Poptry Cup.
J*
Twenty horses faced the starting-gate for
that popular event, much loved by tlje ladies,
the Fiction Hurdles. The betting, though
brisk, was astonishingly even, and several
horses were bracketed favorites. Melbourne
ladies showed some partiality for a common-
place mare, A Question of Latitude, owned
by Laura Bogue Luffman; up-country sports
planked their worldly goods on The Daw-
sons’ Uncle George, trained on Sumner
Locke’s Outback selection; the critics rather
liked the promising form of Designing Fate
(by The Long Arm, out of Coincidence),
ridden by John Sandes; and theatrical folk
were observed showering their favors on the
late Thomas E. Spencer’s Bindaicalla.
The Little Blue Devil, owned by Dorothea
Mackellar and Ruth Bedford, was looked at
askance, owing, to its well-known temper.
Captain Quadring, ridden by William Hay,
and The Partners, owned by Edith Weston,
also had their share of support. In the
race, However, The Little Blue Devil showed
unexpected staying power, but in the last
five yards the broad-arrowed yellow jacket
of Captain Quadring’s jockey \fr as seen to
shoot ahead and stay there. The Part-
ners was a bad third, and Designing Fate
fourth. A number of rather rough-looking
horses from the N.S.W. Bookstall stable,
despite the records of their sufccesses in
country meetings,: proved their inability to
keep pace with the better trained metro-
politan champions.
The Dramatic Stakes was a fiasco, as
there were only two starters, both from the
Louis Esson stable. Speculation was rife
as to the chances of The Time Is Not Yet
Ripe; but early in the race the whispered
weakness in that horse’s off hind-leg devel-
oped, and Three Short Plays walked home.
In the Historical Cup there were only
three starters, and the time was the slowest
for this race yet recorded. The Pastoral
Age in Australasia, with James Collier up,
managed to reach the post an inch before
The Adventures of Kimhle Bent (James
Cowan) and Where Socialism Has Failed
(SDwart Grahame). Then the winner fell
dea, and but for the fact that the other
two leaned against each other there would
have been no horse left standing.
J*
Four horses faced the starter for the Art
Plate, two from the stable of Sydney Ure
Smith; a third, well backed by theatrical
punters, ridden by Harry Julius; and the
fourth, ridden by the well-known jockey,
Billy Bluegum, from the Blue Mountain
stud of Norman Lindsay. The cleverness
of Billy Bluegum brought Norman Lind-
say’s Book home a winner, two lengths from
Theatrical Caricatures (Harry Julius), with
Old Sydney (Sydney Ure Smith), whose
age was against- him, a good third. The
win was a most popular one.
From a sporting point of view, it w r as a
pity that Frank Maldon Robb’s The Poems
of Adam Lindsay Gordon had against it in
the Biographical Stakes a winded old nag
of the same name from the English stables
of Douglas Sladen and Edith Humphris.
The race soon resolved itself into a proces-
sion, Robb’s neat little mount winning by
two miles from its bulky competitor.
In the Political Steeplechase, The Aus-
tralian Citizen, ridden by Walter Murdoch,
won by a head from The Meaning of Poli-
tics, a dull-colored horse owned by W.
Jethro Brown, of Adelaide.
There were only three recipients of the
public’s favors in the Descriptive Plate, but
two of the horses showed fine pace, and the
time w T as a record. The Dreadnought of the
Darling, ridden by C. E. W. Bean, tied
with Max Herz’s New Zealand, the Country
and Its People. Also ran: River Rovers,
furiously ridden to a standstill by E. J.
Brady.
Jt
Five of the winners changed hands at the
conclusion of the meeting, all being bought
for the Australian Book-Slielf stable, the
owner of which intends leaving his horses
for posterity—if posterity wants them. Any-
way, it will have its chance. The five were:
The New Life, by William Blocksidge.
Three Short Plays, by Louis Essom
The Poems of Adam Lindsay Gordon, by
Frank Maldon Robb.
The Dreadnought of the Darling, by C. E.
W. Bean.
Neic Zealand, the Country and Its People,
by Max Ilerz!
The Modern Play
ißah.sm and a careful avoidance of the
melodramatic are the distinguishing marks
of the modern English drama. Sidgwick
and Jackson and Duckworth are publishers
who believe in the published play, and a
selection of recent plays published by the
former firm gives us a fair view of the
qualities of the modern playwright.
Hindle Wakes, by Stanley Houghton, is
an admirable example: not only is it an in-
teresting drama to read, but it has proved
its worth on the boards. It is curious to
reflect that the author has taken up his
dramatic selection on ground pre-empted
by as fine an author as Arnold Bennett; and
while Bennett has made no successful use
on the stage of his knowledge of “The Five
Towns,” Houghton triumphantly shows
what results can be got by his cultivation
of the uncongenial soil- of the English pro-
vincial Midlands. The son of a manufac-
turer goes off with a daughter of one of his
weavers, and the pair stay as man and wife
at an hotel. The facts are made known to
Fanny’s parents—Houghton wastes no time
in getting his story started —and Fanny’s
mother decides that the manufacturer’s son
must “make an honest woman” of Fanny.
It happens that her father and the youth’s
father were in their youth weavers toge-
ther. One has become rich: the other re-
mains his workman. The rich manufac-
turer —a stern, just man—orders his son to
marry Fanny or be disinherited. Alan is
engaged to an expensively brought up girl.
She, honestly in love with him, and pardon-
ing his-escapade, yet refuses to lharry him.
Morally, Alan belongs to Fanny.
>
Alan clumsily explains to Beatrice, his
fiancee:—
“Fanny was just an amusement —a lark.
Doing oil with her was like going off and
getting tight for once in a way.... You
wouldn’t want to break off our engagement
tor that. I wonder if you can look on this
aitair of I anny’s as something like getting
dght only worse. I’m ashamed of niyself.
Just as I should be if you caught me drunk.
.... What I felt for Fanny was simply—
base —horrible”
had you always thought of
me?” she asks.
.“Oh Bee, what I felt for you was some-
thing—higher—finer
“Was it? Or are you only trying to make
yourself believe that?”
“No. I respected you.”
“I wonder which feeling a woman would
rather arouse. And I wonder which is
most like love?”
Doing away with Fanny was just a
fancy—a sort of freak.”
“But you have never given me any proof
half as great as that.” y 0
And Alan gives her the proof. He refuses
to marry Fanny, though he knows his father
will turn him out. But Beatrice breaks off
the engagement. So there is the situation
neatly arranged by all the characters except
th * ° ne to whom it matters most. And in
an effective scene, at last Eanny speaks her
mind. She objects to be “given away with
a pound of Jea.” She absolutely refuses to
marry the lad. He finds his masculine
reason for what appears to him a quixotic
act, but Fanny has her feminine reason:—
“Don’t you kid yourself, my lad! It isn t
because I’m afraid of spoiling your life that
I’m refusing you, but because I m atraicl
of spoiling mine . That didn’t occur to
you ?”
“But didn’t you ever really love me?” he
gasps at last. . ~
“Love you?” says Fanny. Good heavens,
of course not! Why on earth should I lov£
you? You were just someone to have a bit
of fun with. You were an amusement—a
lark You’re a man, and I was your little
fancy. Well, I’m a woman, and you were
my little fancy. You wouldn’t prevent a
woman enjoying herself as well as a man. it
she takes it into her head?... .You’re a nice
lad, and I’m fond of you. But I couldn t
ever marry you. We’ve had a right good
time together. I’ll never forget that. It
has been a right good time, and no mistake .
So one more literary convention is neatly
punctured in a delightful play.
J*
The New Sin, by B. Macdonald Hastings,
leaves us wondering what the new sin is.
The hero, who is a typical Shavian hero,
mostly conversation, is placed in a peculiar
position by his father’s will, since till his
death none of his brothers and sisters, all
wasters, can put hands on a penny of their
big inheritance. The hero decides to kill
himself, but is persuaded first to kill a
sweater, who, naturally, would be better
dead. The hero’s younger brother, who had
been dismissed by the sweater, actually
commits the murder; and the hero, seeing a
way out of the suicide he has shirked, ac-
cuses himself of the murder. Unfortunately
his sentence, made certain by his weak
brother’s perjury, is commuted to imprison-
ment for life, which leaves everybody, ex-
cept the dead sweater and the hero, pretty
much as they were. There is much good
talk—Shaw, slightly adulterated —but the
thing is too fantastical to touch reality.
The artistic temperament, a favorite
theme for comedy, is in evidence in Mary
Broome, by Allan Monkhouse. Leonard has
the artistic temperament in a virulent form,
and when he is discovered to have got the
servant, Mary Broome, into trouble, he is
forced to “make an honest woman” of her
by the usual stern father. Mary, to save
trouble, consents. Of course the marriage
of this heartless egoist with this matter-of-
fact girl is a failure; but you see his flip-
pancy slowly tarnish under the blows that
Life and marriage give him. His child
dies, and, hating death, he does not return
even for its funeral. So Mary, who would
have stayed with him had the child lived,
determines to “make an honest woman” of
herself by going off with the honest milk-
man who loves her. And, as usual, she goes
to Canada. In the modern play Canada is
always the way out from the cul de sac of
a weak fourth act. This dramatic conven-
tion is bad for Australia. It should
be worth the High Commissioner’s while,
to subsidise these new playwrights to
mention Australia as the el dorado of all
unfortunate stage marriages. We want all
the immigrants we ban get, even though
they be heroes and heroines.
Mary Broome, a subject fit for tragedy,
is cast in an irresponsible comedy vein. You
cannot take Leonard in any way except as
a delightful unmoral child. When Mary
leaves him for her milkman, all Leonard
can say is that his marriage has been “an
extraordinarily interesting episode, the most
stimulating thing ( that ever happened to
me,” and adds, “I must thank you for that,
Mary.” His mother sharply asks, “Doesn’t
it hurt you? Can you get outside it like
that ?’ “Oh, yes,” says Leonard beauti-
fully. “It hurts me splendidly.” And he is
left talking.
J*
I iner metal is to be found in Rutherford
and Son, by Githa Sowerby. This is'a drab
Ibsemsh play .of the ironworks on the
Tyne. The chief character is not human;
it is the “works,” known as “Rutherford's,”
that dominate the whole Rutherford family
It has crunched the joy of life out of the
younger members, and it is a dreadful and
jealous god to the head of the family. The
children recognise at last that they are de-
aicated to Rutherford’s as children were of
° ld dedicated to Moloch. John, who made
a foolish runaway marriage, discovers a
new metal, the recipe of which he offers to
sell to his father, and, with the money he
means to escape from the thrall of the
-works” with his ailing wife and child. But
the father will not chaffer with his own
son; he demands the paper containing the
details of the new process as his, for the
shke of Rutherford’s. Unable to browbeat
John, he prevails on a workman to betray
to him the secret—so necessary for Ruther-
ford’s. And then the old man dismisses the
faithful Martin who has served him so well.
For Martin has been living with Ruther-
ford’s soured spinster daughter.. She had
deliberately made love to this humble-
minded man, in a last despairing revolt
against the shadow of gloom in which she
had so long been condemned to live.
“I was 36. Gone sour. Nobody’d ever
come after me. Not even when I was young.
You took care of that. Half of my life
was gone. Well-nigh all of it that mattered.
What have I had of it, afore I go back
to the dark? Who are you? A man—a
man that’s taken power to himself, power to
gather people to him and use them as he
wills —a man that’d take the blood of life it-
self and put it into the Works —into Ruther-
ford’s.” ,
Her scene with Martin, the discharged
workman with the servant-soul, is infinitely
touching in its passionate sincerity. And
all Martin hopelessly says is, “It was a
great love ye gave me.... But it’s broke
me.” .. ,
“You worked gladly, mebbee,” the woman
insists, “but all the time your life was going
into Rutherford’s—your manhood mto the
place he’s built. He’s had you, Martin, like
he’s had me.... Now’s our chance at last!
He’s turned us both away. We two he’s
sent out into the world together. Free.
It’s ours to take, Martin —our happiness.”
But the discharged workman can only
say, “Whist! Whist! You talk wild!”
So the stern father turns them out, turns
his recalcitrant *son out, and is left alone
with that son's weakling wife and child.
But she does not appeal to this ching of
iron for permission to stay under his roof.
She makes a bargain with him. She sees
that without an heir Rutherford’s is
doomed, and she offers to sell him h6r child.
His father, she too well knows, cannot give
him a place in the world, but his grand-
father can. So for ten years—she drives
her bargain—she is to stay on and cherish
her son, for ten years he is to be absolutely
hers. Then he is to become her father’s
property, to be brought up to succeed him
as the visible embodiment of that immortal
thing. Rutherford’s.
That is all. A piece of life, grim, hard,
tragic. There is no moral.
Louis N- Parker, author of several suc-
cessful plays, provides in Drake, a Pageant-
Play (Lane, per Dymock’s Library) a stir-
ring series, of patriotic scenes and much
robustious Elizabethan dialogue. The cal-
cium ray and the stage carpenter monopo-
lise much of the interest, but the thing is
bold and fine, purple-patched, but not melo-
dramatic. It was apparently meant to stir
in the shop-keeping souls of the modern
Cockney some memory of the race from
which he pathetically believes himself de-
scended. Of course, the sole descendants of
the pirates of Elizabeth have long ago fled
overseas from those narrow isles.
J*
Hermann Sudermann' has failed to keep
pace with the fierce onrush of modern Ger-
man drama, yet we have two volumes of his
one-act plays translated under the titles of
Roses and Morituri (Duckworth, 25.), while
the. real leaders of the German drama must
wait their turn. Morituri contains but one
play of worth, “Fritzc'hen,” a poignant
study of a youth doomed to death for an
aflair of honor. He is shown in his father’s
house, pretending lightheartedness, yet con-
scious that he is taking his last farewell be-
fore he meets the sure bullet of the man he
has been compelled to call out. Suderniann
manages to extract thd last ounce of pathos
from a situation obviously constructed for
this purpose. The play was' performed by
the Sydney Stage Society recently in Syd-
ney. . In Roses “The Last Visit” shows us
a veiled lady coming with flowers to the
coffin of a colonel, and rapturously revelling
in the sentiment of the scene. Chiefly, how-
ever, she wants to get hold of her compro-
mising letters. The girl who had opened
the door to the lady on her frequent visits
to the colonel moves silently through the
scene, till suddenly she asks the veiled lady
to take her roses away from the coffin. The
lady starts and says haughtily: “This per-
son acts as if she were the mistress of the
house!” The girl replies: “I am The
before he died I became—his wife.”
Melodramatic and rather obvious in tone,
ut the . characterisation is definite and
c everly indicated. But the mechanism of
t lese plays can be heard creaking, as, from
oo much midnight oil, at the present time
they creak in Pinero.


ik
a
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for the SUMMER FASHIONS
4
N.
s
JL
5 C
1351
5096
No. SCl—Smart Coat anti Skirt Costume of White Linen. The Coat has high wast,
the round collar, revers, and cuffs faced with pale-blue linen, finished white buttons. The five-piece
Skirt has seam in centre front, panel and buttons at back. S.W., W., and O.S 27/6
No. 1351— Useful Coat and Skirt Costume, of bright, silky Sicilian. The Coat
is semi-fitting, the revers trimmed with black Russia braid. The Skirt is four-piece, with improved
panel back and lapped seam in centre front. Colors: Navy, Grey, or Black. In S.W., W., and out-
sizes i 29/6
No. 5096 —Effective Coat and Skirt Costume of Natural Tussore Silk. The
coat has fancy, shaped panel back, outlined with Tan Satin pipings; which also relieve the fronts;
collars, revers and cuffs, also the improved Fancy Panels to back and front of Skirt. S.W., W., and
O.S 49/6
Line/
afflnl-hony florderr\s'
farqoi/3 /otv' jjrices
L.R.5
'fflUL^r
a
£
>T
L
OQ
No. RR5 —One-piece Robe Cpstume
in sizes S.W., W., 0.5., and Ex. O.S
of White Linen, trimmed self strappings and buttons
21 Rinen Hat 8/11
No
. Rlol2—Robe Costume, ofjlne White Lawn, trimmed Swiss Embroidery Insert!^
sizes S.W., W„ O.S 13/6 White Pique Hat
No. 320/1— One-piece Costume, of fine Whiite Linen,
Embroidery and self buttons—in sizes S.W., W., O.S. ..jS.t/o
effectively trimmed White
Straw Hat
Swiss
14/6
No. 1659 —Robe Costume, of soft finish
White Guipure. S.W., W., and O.S
White Linen, the yoke, shoulders
29/6 White Pique Hat-
and sleeves trimmed
7/11
Patrons who are
unable to personally
inspect the Magnifi-
cent Display of the
Season’s Latest Crea-
tions shown in the
Green Room at the
New Palace Em-
porium should con-
sult our Summer
Fashi n Book. Write
for a copy of this
interesting publica-
tion, posted free on
request; it faith-
fully illustrates tho
prevailing modes
and is an authorita-
tive guide to all
that is new in the
World of Dress.
r>m
r
' : -
it'
I
is?
223
lO£S
307
G 35
No. 1025. Robe Costume, of Mercerised Foulard, with yoke and collar of white all
over, finished pipings of black and small black satin buttons, with new skirt. Colors: Black, Grey,
Old Rose, Saxe. S.W., W„ 17/6
No. 307. Robe Costume, Of Striped Cambric, in all colors, finished pipings and bands of
plaia cambric to tone. S.W., W., O.S 9/6
No. 223. Crepe Robe Costume, in Navy and White, Grey and White, and Saxe and Whits
Stripes, yoke and cuffs of plain Crepe, finished self-buttons. S.W., W., O.S 13/9
No. 1635. Stylish Robe Costume, Of Black and Grey Striped Voile, Magyar bodice,
with black silk collar and vest, smart-cut skirt. S.W., W., O.S 29/6
Our
Illustrated
Price Lists
plac« the vast
resources of the
NEW PALACE
EMPORIUM at
the command of
everyone in Aus-
tralia. Write
for copies of
anything you
vr an t, posted
free on request,
and reap the full
benefit of cur
unique system
of SPOT CASH
TRADING.
? %
*<3
CD / <
maw UMI
a//
<=® i //
09
LT 560
v°k™ es
2061^
5019
tANTHONy fIoRDERNS’
Pr/ces
No. 2061—Coat and Skirt Costume, of Natural Assam Silk. Coat smartly tailored,
finished self strappings and stitchings. Smart two-piece skirt. In S.W., W., and O.b OeS/-
No. 560—Coat and Skirt Costume, of Natural Tussore Silk. Coat has high waist, no
collar, large s'ngle rovers and cuffs, relieved hydrangea blue, tan, or black silk, finished tussore silk
buttons and braid loops. New Panel Skirt. Sizes, S.W., W., and 0.5.........; 39/6
No. 5019 —Smart Robe Costume, of Natural Tussore Silk, finished black satin ribbon,
loops and buttons. Sizes, S.W., W„ and O.S <so/-
Xo. 4—Stylish One-piece Robe Costume, of Natural Tussore Silk, colored satin pipings
and tussore braid, loops and buttons. Sizes, S.W., W., and O.S •
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers*
New Palace Emporium,
BricKfield fiill #
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


Beauty’s Favourite
The article which excels all others
in improving the beauty of the sßin
is naturally and deservedly beauty’s
favourite. This has been the
acknowledged and honoured
position held by Pears' Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and has
maintained that position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by the
possession of those special emollient
properties which soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to the
ekin. No other soap possesses
these qualities in such a pre*
eminent degree as
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
&
(O
v:>
:• • •
v_r
VS
w/
Lii2
UU!
D
V
>'
».
IUA
Brato-fag
When the delicate mechanism of your
work !? d '® ol ;s aniBed by worry and over-
Z!Z k ' ?°a th i t y °, u are of con-
C cant^ ted “Wincarnis’’ "will
speedily revitalise your poor, over-strained
nerves, and give you a delicious feeling
of renewed menta! energy that will enabl!
yo “ to t hink quickly—plan effectively
wiib d Q aCt promptly - No man can think
with a worn-out brain. But here is
to XtaSXT readr 1 notice
to stimulate your brain, nourish vour
s arv o(l nerves, and give you bick your
old-time mental activity. your
Anaemia.
The _ pallid complexion—the transpar-
ent skin—the lustreless eyes—tell, only
Rni P “w“ y ’ tha atoi 7, of insufficient blood.
-But Winearms will soon give a bright-
““h? t yeS ’ Dl j coax back the roses
“Wi!? 6 - e t, ks ‘ A °d as you take your
. ln oarnis you will find yourself, day
1 ,*u- ay ’ Siting stronger—brighter—
mm H,f r ~f a *w the gran,ll - v nourishing
luahties of Wincarms” create a fund cl
r„ F ed blood and send it dancing
Strength fT Vei . n ?’ to carry health,
of thf body nounshment to every part
Sleeplessness Convalescence
° nly f hose , w !>° suffer from sleepless-
ness realise the intense misery of the in-
cessant tossing to and fro—the agonising
ZVI f l daybreak and the feeling of
utter exhaustion in the morning. Sleen-
lesness is due to a disordered state of the
brain cells, therefore, although the body
may be thoroughly worn out, the brain
is in such a highly-strung condition that
< S ‘v\rP IS im Possible. A wineglassful of
“Wmcarnis" taken just befoS retiring
will soothe that highly-strung brain and
ZZl y ° U an uninterrupted and sweetly
refreshing night s rest. y
In prolonged convalescence after a
severe illness, the effect of “Wincarnis”
is almost magical. From the first, and
succeeding wineglassful, “Win-
cainis imparts a delicious feeiing of
renewed vitality. And day bv day the
patient gets stronger and brighter the
appetite improves, and the blush of health
returns to the cheeks. A wealth of rich red
out d rbA w , hlch circulates through-
out the body, and rebuilds the worn-out
anT h’ revitalises the weakened nerves
U P the system so that the
whole body pulsates with renewed life.
GjlKCflßNk
iVStj3!«ste£M ssttrsfifs•» •»*• *«*»
ioj,ment ° f asw* and Ne ™“ s &». , s»*^sr
A A A A gi
its
4
*
Mr. Stott, of 8 Crosby Street M,RACUL <>US RECOVERY.
Wincarnis is sold by all Wine at l • i ive days after-
Australian and Now Zealand
COLEMAN & CO., LTD Wincar L*" 7 Barraok s treet, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
— ’ *-™" Wmcarnls Works, Norwich, eng.
The Inky Way.
“The only horrors we have seen so far,” says
Nevinson. the DaiiA Chronicle’s war correspondent,
“are the atrocious price of our meals and the diffi-
culty of getting our washing done.” He and 80 other
correspondents have been kept boxed up under guard,
miles and miles from any fighting. Yet he confesses
that the military authorities are right. “No army
can allow 80 or 100 correspondents to go roaming
about as they like. We have been killed by our own
numbers, hanged by our weight, as the Germans say.”
A German officer told Nevinson that it had been de-
cided to allow no journalists or photographers to
accompany the German forces in future, and that any-
body caught sending out news of the army’s move-
ments would be summarily shot.
* * * *
“Wus”: The men who take charge of Brisbane and
Sydney Labor dailies may learn how not to do it hv
studying the Adelaide experiment. The evidence will
be easy to collect, as ex-HERALD men are to be found
in every city in Australia, over 30 having left, mostlv
in disgust, during the paner’s brief two years. There
must be something radically wrong about its methods
when writers, clerks and printers give short, sudden
notice, whether they have other jobs to go to or not;
and although the Board sits almost every day it does
not seem to have located the canker spot. As one
who. though deeply in love with Labor journalism,
felt recently impelled to quit, simultaneously with
several others, 1 think the trouble is that the office
is too much managed. The crying need is for a. little
judicious letting alone. Board, manager, editor —
all of them —seem tempted to handle the paper's deli-
cate organisation in the fashion of a child exploring
the innards of a musical-box. The thing is for ever
being pulled to pieces and put together again. No
sooner do the Ministerial or commercial roundsmen
learn their marks than the whole arrangement is
torn up by the roots, and captains of commerce, in-
dustry and politics are faced by strangers, to whom
they naturally won’t open their mouths right away.
In style, too,' the Herald has gone back to the ran-
dom slashing which formerly brought it commercially
within sound of the breakers; and, though that may
be a very good style for some cities, I’m pretty cer-
tain it isn’t for Adelaide. Still, I’ll admit that this
is a matter of opinion ; the rest is more than that,
for the tree has borne its fruit.
“Leo”: Editor Hogg, of Barrier Daily Truth,
has resigned after a record short term of four
months. Nine editors in 14 years is the unenviable
record notched by the Unionistic owners of the
Broken Hill Labor paper. Starting with Chas. Maley
in 1898, the lot of every editor has been made
unbearable. George Black’s reign was brief; then
Chas. Maley again, and J. W. Kilner. R. S.
Ross held sway for three strenuous years and laid
the foundations for the conversion of Truth from
a weekly into a daily. When Ross resigned in dis-
gust, Tom Lauder assumed the chair, and within a
year malcontents forced his retirement. The late
W. A. Jones was practically driven to death by the
worries of catering for the cantankerous Barrierites.
Then Claude Thompson put in two years at the
helm, and made Truth pay. The periodic upheaval
happened along, and Thompson resigned, making
wav for Robert Hogg. The latter’s journalistic
ability was far greater than his capacity to please
the worrying factions that ceaselessly scramble, for
the control of the paper. Barrier unionists are great
democrats in theory, but terrible tyrants in practice.
* * * *
“The Exile from Aaron”: After being the back-
bone, king-pin, pivot and several other things on
that hazardous concern, the Wellington (M.L.)
Times, for more years than he would like to be re-
minded of, Fred Kirby, associate editor, has given
the show best. Probably Kirby has seen more
ed'tors, managers and reporters come to and fro from
the Times during the last 12 or 15 years than any
other pressman in any office in Australasia. At times
things were so brisk, comparatively speaking, in man-
agers and editors that they were merely conducted to
their second-storey rooms to be hurled through the
windows. One joyous soul one night took up his stand
under the lighted staff rooms and bellowed, a la
bottle-o, “Any bones, any old bedsteads, any old
editors, rags or bottles.” It was the personality of
Kirby that attracted men to the Times, and re-
strained them, once there, from leaping on the Board
of Directors’ stummiek. There have been occasions
when, but for that personality, the Times would
have had to call up the directors to do the jobs they
reckoned they knew so much about. Kirbv, with one
of his hard-working young men, H. O. Browne, has
now taken over the Northern Advocate, at Whan-
garei, near Auckland, and after 17 or 18 years of
night (and day) work, will 101 l in the comparative
.iovs of evening paper conditions. To the writer,
Kirby once said, speaking of morning-paper yakker:
“It is a dog’s life at best, and. looking round me and
back, it seems impossible to even guess why men sell
themselves to such utter bondage.” It’s like the
whisky curse—foolish, but insidiously attractive.
Lever, the soap man, has bought the famous
Stafford House, London, from the Duke of Suther-
land —-helped thereto, somebody hints, though he
roallv didn’t want anv help, hv the damages he got
for libel from the Daily Mail and the" Evening
New o . Both papers are owned by the Harmsworths
Northcliffe, head of the firm, admitted that he was re-
sponsible for the blunder, and gave a cheque
for the whole £73,000 from his private account.
THE UNBELIEVER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The late General Booth once said: “We have con-
verted every kind of .professional man but the jour-
nalist.”
He skims about the circling world;
He knows its every turn and twist;
On wings of expectation whirled
He inoths about the shining world,
A restless, seeking journalist
Who values only “news.”
lie wants not. blood, or love, or cash
(These sidelines sometimes give a dash
Of flavor to tne chase) :
But as he wings his lonely flight
From bar to bar, or light to light,
He keeps one thing in view:
His quarry is the brand-new Fact—
The precious, perishable Fact
That glitters when it’s new.
He knows the Missioner and Priest,
The glowing Saint and Sinner blue;
He nods to Beauty and the Beast,
And hears them singing at the feast
That flying waiters lay for two;
To him it is not new.
He passes by without a glance
The blithering of young Romance,
The clowning of the Fool;
For, winging everywhere, the elf
Knows well how Life repeats itself,
So every blessed thing is done
Ten million times ere set of sun ;
The crimson sin, the noble act,
In dull rotation go.
Weary of all, he seeks the Fact —
The bright and publ shable Fact—
In this perpetual Show.
He knows the world he flies about
Is upside down and inside out,
And mostly puff and paint;
So while he lives he ever tries
To cyanide the shams and lies
And to perdition pour
The useless tailings of his search.
What Booth could leave him in the lurch,
Or help him where, in white undress,
The angels sing ? He is The Press !
His name is on the door 1
N.S.W.
E. O’F.


AN AEROCEN SAFETY CAS MACHINE
Should be in Every Country Home, Store, Hotel Si Billiard Saloon.
It is ABSOLUTE PERFECTION and ECONOMY in LIGHTING. COOKING, IRONING and HEATING.
A few Australian Buyers of the Aerogen Safety Gas Machines
VICTORIA.
Allen, J. D., Sorrento
Austin, E. G., Skipton
Bailey, T., Darlington
Batson. G., Nhill
Chirnside, Gordon, Skipton
Clarke, E. E. D., Melton
Davis, C. P„ Heathcote
Dowling, G. W., Darlington
Etzenberger, Madame, Mt. Martha
Iraser, R. A., Glen Thompson
Gilbert, C. N., Healesville
Hannah, R. J., Llsmore
Irvine, Hon. W. H„ Eltham
James, Dr., Warburton
Bee, W. J., Wonthaggi
Mailer, Dr., Murrumbeena
McDonald, C. A., Hamilton
Northcote, E., Flinders
Oliver, R., Mornington
Payne, A. E., Eilydale
Rankin, T. P., Berwick
Syme, Dr., Mordialloc
Thomson, Wm., Hamilton
Victorian Railway Stations
Williamson, E.. Eismore
Winter, J. 1., Mortlake
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Bennetts, W. H.. Junee
Hrj ant, Mrs., Muttama
Bulli Hotel
Clifton Hotel
“Colorado” Station, AVallendbeen
Cosgrove, P., Bred bo
Hangar, E. A., Warialda
Experimental Farm, Nowra
Gibb, David F., Berthong Station, Wal-
lendbeen
Girls’ School. Armidale
Hay, Alex., Cooiangatta
Hordern, Anthony, Milton Park, Boxvral
Jones, A. E., Armatree
Kater, D., Trangie
Kiss, George G., Riverstone
Eang, Alex., Tocumwal
Loneragan, J., Mud gee
McConnell, W., Barham
McElntock, E. A., Cootamundra
McPhillamy, C. S., Forbes
N.S.W. Railway Stations
Sydney Morning Herald (2)
Thompson, H. R., “Windella,” Narran-
dera
Waterfall Hospital, Waterfall (2)
QUEENSLAND.
Baree School of Arts.. Mt. Morgan
Bates, W. A. A., Lakeside, Gayndali
Breitkreuz, C. L., Kirk Siding, via
Kavensvvood
Coxon, F. J., "Oraa,” Tsisford
Homer, E. X., “Barfield,” Banana
Langley, O. X., “Halifax,” Herbert
River
Mackay, A. N., Strathdarr Station,
Long reach
McDonald Bros., Charlotte Plains Sta-
tion. Cunnamulla
Nestle & Anglo-Swiss C. M. Co., Factory
Reid, \V., & Co., Rockhampton
Retro Station, Capella
Rich, E. & Co., Ltd., Brisbane
Robinson, Mrs., Grand Hotel, Huglien-
den
Ross, H. M., “Callandoon Station,”
Goondiwindi
Ryan, —, Blackail
Shaw, Alfred, Ltd., Xownsville
Williams. G. P., Roma
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Alcock & Co. Pty., Ltd., Perth
Alcock, A. U. t Victoria Park
Andre, C. H., Marvel Loch
Burt, Mr., Perth
Carroll, J., Bunbury
Clontarf Orphanage, Victoria Park
Connolly, P. A., Guildford
Grant, Alex., Geraldton
Grant, McKenzie, Newmaracarra
Hardie, —, Broomehill
Herley Bros., Messrs., Menzies
Lamont, H. G., Northampton
Ee Breton, T., Marvel Loch
Montgomery, J„ Brookton
Norris, R„ Broomehill
Parker, J. W., Dangin
Railway Station, Spencer’s Brook
Rutherford, D., Moora
Sanderson, A., Kalamunda
Sewell, G. M., Pingelly
Smith, Mrs. A. V., Dangin
Standford & .Johnson, Broomehill
Thompson, J. E., Perth
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Hawker, M. S., Yacka
Minda Home, Brighton
Robertson, Mrs., Calperum Station
Swan, J. W., Angaston
Barrau, M., Noumea (Local Agent)
Brown & Joske, Suva, Fiji (Local
Agents)
AEROGEN is a positive guarantee of Complete Safety and Efficiency, and we issue a POSITIVE WARNING
that AEROGEN SAFETY GAS CAN ONLY BE PRODUCED BY AEROGEN MACHINES.
COST ONE-QUARTER THAT OF ACETYLENE, WITH ONE-TENTH THE TROUBLE. Can be used with UPRIGHT or INVERTED BURNERS.
NO ENGINE IS NECESSARY. The AEROGEN SAFETY GAS MACHINE simply winds up like a clock, and is entirely automatic.
CALL OR WRITE FOR OUR NEW ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
SYDNEY: AEROGEN GAS MACHINE CO. PTY., LTD., Commerce Buildings, Ash Street
ELBOURNE: AEROGEN GAS MACHINE CO. PTY., LTD., 133 William Street.
ADELAIDE: Chas. Atkins & Co. Ltd. BRISBANE: Queensland Machinery Co. Ltd. townsvii ip.m. < cl .. .
PERTH : Alcock & Co. Pty. Ltd. ROCKHAMPTON : W. Reid & Co. Ltd. NEW cl FOONI a A r
BRITISH NFW OIJINFA • Burns Phlln x. i+a INbW CALbDONIA . A. Barrau.
K ‘ iNtw uuinea. Burns. Philp & Co. Ltd. PACIFIC ISLANDS: Burns. Philp & Co. Ltd.
for More
•ISM
ILzfJ
TP
/A
Bird’s
Custard
stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess*
Has stood the test of time
Over 70 years ’ success,
When Weaning Baby
The Best Food to give is
The ‘Allenburys' Milk Food No. 1.
On the addition of water as directed, it forms an accurately estimated
humanised milk, and may be given alternately with the natural food
vithout fear of upsetting the child or causing digestive disturbance.
Weaning can therefore proceed gradually with comfort both to mother
and child. Farinaceous foods should not be given at this time.
Mllenburcjs Foods
PAMPHLET ON INFANT FEEDING AND MANAGEMENT FREE
Allen & Hanburys Ltd.
LONDON, ENGLAND, and
MARKET STREET, SYDNEY,
THE LONE HANP
TITE AUSTRALIAN MAGAZIfc V..
A monthly guide for everything Australian.
6d
HAES & EGGERS
163 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES FOR
M. B. WILD & CO.
a
Pi
u
Illustration of 150-H.P. Double Drum Haulage Gear•,
Fitted with
Specialists
in the Manufacture of
Hauling & Windi
Machinery i
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
MACHINE CUT CITROEN GEARS
Write for Catalogues .
Guaranteed Efficiency, 98 Per Cent.


Arnott’s Milk Arrowroot Biscuits
“ THE. CHILDRENS FOOD.”
TOOTH h CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
The Most Moderate Priced. Reliable, Real Rifle Made !
STEVENS
LITTLE SCOUT NO. 14
For -22 Short R.F., -22 Long R.F., and -22 Long Rifle R.F. cartridges. Weight,
2Rb.
Rifled by the famous Stevens method.
STEVENS RIFLES —PISTOLS —TELESCOPES,
Hold more Records for Accuracy than all other makes Combined.
Order through your Dealer. Write for latest Catalogue to
M|h
ARTHUR H. HILL,
Australian Representative for J. Stevens Arms and Tool Co
Box 86, Q.P.0., Adelaide, South Australia. [4
You will be Contented if you
Buy a PIEPER BAYARD Gun
PIEPER BAYARD WEAPONS are Honestly Made.
txP
To b z had of all Storekespzrs.
Gunsmiths and Merchants.
Write to W. A. Cox, G.P.O. Box 873, Sydney, for Booklet, post free.
BR9 9KS
Bo it “comfortably’'
on a BROOKS.
To ride a BROOKS is not to
ensure an advantage over your
rivals—for it is morally certain
that they will be equipped simil-
arly— but rather to
remove the serious
handicap of an
inferior saddle.
Of all
Dealers*
w.yC'-.t:
-“A
w«
Will Andrade ~ BOOKS.
Any of these Catalogues
Free for the asking-;
(1) Plays, Recitations.
(2) Conjuring Appar-
atus.
(3) Useful Books.
(4) Building Books.
(5) Mechanical and
Engineering Books.
(6) Medical Books.
(7) Socialistic Books.
(8) Sixpenny Novels.
(9) Australian Books.
(10) Athletic Books.
(11) Wigs, Beards,
Grease Paints,
Masks.
„ . *i! Sy of Learning French, German, Italian, Spanish, 1/7
H^ h n K c age ’ Speeches and Toasts for all occasions, 1/1; Every Man
•°\I n f j r P e " te o’ 1,1 J , B ? rn ard Maefadden's Building of Vital Power,
I fnfntrW Virility of Manhood, 5/4; Maefadden's Sweet-
<d. , Boxing and Self-Defence, 1/2; Book of Love Letters, 1/-; How tc
Moo and Win,l/1 ; Astrology Made Easy, 1/1; Money-Making Secrets,
Farees M 1/1 Po P lllar Farces, 1/1 ; Sixteen Amusing
i teen ? ne ;^ t Far , ces l/i; Twenty Humorous Dialogues”
11 fi ’ Of-w 6 T^ mUSement ß *l\'- How 01d Mose Uounted the Eggs” and
l - °‘t H =°" 8 a R f Cltat A ons ,>, Famous Dramatic Recitations,
1/1, Ilow Sockery Set a Hen and other Comic Recitations 1/1 •
arnous Dialect Recitations, 1/1; 1401 Conundrums and Riddles 1/1 •
■ l/1; Hypnotism, Mesmerism and Clairvoyance’
11. Popular Horse and Cattle Doctor, 1/1; How to Teach Animal
n™! 8 ’ V 1: . Wt A at T oun ? People Should Know, Confidential Talks 1/1 •
Dr Faulkner’s Original Book of Nature, the only genuine and
edition, 3/6; New 1912 edition, enlarged,B2 extfaplatesillSSSw
female anatomy, handsome cloth cover, 5/-; New Tricks with Cards 1/-
House 1 aintmg, I aperhangmg, Whitewashing etc 1/1- 3000 Pri'ndnoc
Secrets, 1/8; Irish Jokes and Witty Sayfn<*s 9d • Comll UH
Writer for Ladies and Gentlemen, 1/-'; Dancing WitlWtTn Instruct/
1/-; Lover’s Guide to Courtship and Marriage 1/ Instructor,
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT. ’ Mention The Bullet.*.
.... , ~ Juciiuuii J.UE JSULLETIt
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
1 suite win ao.
ciTALoauEs 201 Bourke St., Melbourne.
ASK YOUR WIFE
Being charged with the duty of assuring the maximum of comfort, at the
least possible expense, she appreciates the advantages of a perfect lighting
system, which is absolutely safe and clean.
SHE KNOWS
that the installation of a gas service means the saving of an untold amount of
work and w T orry, and, more than anyone else, realises the benefits of having
a gas stove and bath-heater always ready to help her through the continuous
round of household duties.
The Immense Saving Effected by
QUIRK’S AIR GAS
is alone a very important factor, for it is far cheaper than any known lighting
agent, while —being non-explosive and non-poisonous—there is no need to be
constantly on one’s guard against accidents.
THE SIMPLICITY IN THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE MACHINE
assures reliability, and obviates the necessity of any skilled attendance.
The Company send their own Experts to install the system, and no payment
is asked until the Customer gives his certificate as to satisfactory service.
A BOON TO HOTEL PROPRIETORS and those in charge of premises
conducted for the accommodation of the Public, which patronises
those who study its comfort.
Directors:
Hon. THOMAS WADDELL, Chairman.
Sir JAMES GRAHAM, 1v.8., M.D.
JOHN STINSON, Esq.
JOHN HAIN, Esq.
W. M. QUIRK, Esq., Managing Director.
Quirk’s Lighting and
Engineering Limited,
117 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Reduce the Cost of Trustee Administration by appointing ..
THE PERMANENT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
LIMITED,
TRUSTEE COMPANY
17 O’ConnelS St.
SYDNEY.
Incorporated 1888 by Special Act of Parliament to act as
Trustees, Executors, Attorneys, Agents, Etc.
ESTATES, PROPERTIES, FUNDS, Etc., MANAGED EFFICIENTLY AND ECONOMICALLY.
Full Particulars on Application.
A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
THE ACCORDEON for Country Residents.
t
- ir
We don’t believe any Accordeon conies
so near perfection as the Celebrated
STAR Trombone Accordeon.
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
larjre bellows protected by steel corners ; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
PriPO -P1 Postage to any Address
■ I I . in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price £1 7s. 6d. ;
postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical
Instruments. Watches, Jewellery, etc..
210 QUEEN STREET -BRISBANE
T
%
Disinfection of
Stables, Cattle-Sheds;
farm buildings, etc., is most efficiently carried
out by means of Izal Izal kills all bacteria
instantly. Prevents infection. Is a splendid
Antiseptic dressing for wounds. Arrests the
spread of fevers and disease.
One gallon of Izal makes 400 gallons of
effiaent disinfecting fluid. The cheapest form
of health insurance for animals and man.
IZAL is the pioneer modern high power germicide.
Guaranteed to be* of uniform disinfecting power;
twenty times stronger than carbolic acid, yet non-
poisonous. J
brackish or fresh water.
WnU for Free Booklet, Practical Disinfection."
Agents:
T. K. STEANES,
37-43 Pitt Street, SYDNEY •


Half Sick
Half Well
f Many persons have their good
I and th 2ir bad day. Others are about I
half sick all the time. They have
headache, backache, and are restless
and nervous. Food does not taste
good, and the digestion is poor; the
skin is dry and disfigured with pim-
ples; sleep brings no rest and work is
a burden.
What causes this? Impure blood.
Ayer's
Sarsaparilla
And the remedy?
SOLD FOB
00 YEARS
It removes impurities from tne l
blood and makes it rich and red. Then
nature takes right hold and completes
the cure. Ask your doctor all about
this.
No medicine can do its best work when
the bowels are constipated. Keep your liver
active with Ayer's Pills. One pill, at bed-
time, is sufficient to produce a natural move-
ment the next morning. Ayer’s Pills are
sugar-coated. All vegetable.
Prepared by DR J. C AYER & CO..
► Lowell, Mass.. U. S A. ' |
THE PIPE OF THE WORLD
WINNER OF ALL FIRST
PRIZES UP-TO-DATE.
Pipes
GBD
Pipes
No. 914.
TO BK BOUGHT FROM
ALL TOBACCONISTS.
IMS IST ON
GETTING
(GBD)
■1
m
iif
J OUR
' PIPES
DEFY ALL
IMITATORS
THERE ARE
TWO THINQS
THEY CAN'T
PRODUCE
(1) OUR QUALITY
(2) OUR SHAPE.
WE CAN PROVE ALL WE
ADVERTISE.
ELEY
CARTRIDGES
essential
to good sport.
Good cartridges may
always suffice
e good sport, but
good sport is out of the
question without them.
ELEY Cartridges do all that the best
cartridges can do in this direction, with a
trustworthiness which has won for them
a measure of success greater probably
than any other cartridges in the world.
Two *Eley Loaded ’ Cartridges:
Elcy ‘Acme’
A bright orangef-inch
deep-shell Cartridge
loaded with F.ley
(42-gr.) Smokeless.
Elcy ‘Eloid’
A light maroon Cartridge.
Loaded with Eley<33 gr.)
Smokeless. Light recoil;
absolutely waterproof.
V
mm • - /
Bfl
n
PI
if*
/>-o/
The above, and other Eley
Specialities, may be ob-
tained from all Gunmakers
and A mmunition Dealers.
Eleyßro*., Ld„ London
EnR.
Cured.
Cure the most vlolent drunkard—secretlv-at home. GOLDEN
r -rr FIC has no odor or taste ' and can be taken by the most delicate person
ot either sex. It total’y eradicates all craving for stimulants, creating a 1a5t-
...... . nig antipathy to alcohol in a few weeks. Many cases are cured in a few davs
with this treatment. . . Send 2d. stamp for FREE SAMPLE and full particulars
THE GOLDEN SFECIFIC CO., DEPT. 4, MARKET STREET, SYDNEY. N.S.W.
YOU LOOK A FRIGHT Nowadays if
You Are Not Properly Proportioned.
Too Fat
People.
Excess fat injures
your health, im-
pedes your move-
ments, and makes you the butt of your unfeeling
normal-weight friends. People who have been
fat, and are now reduced to normal, think other
fat people ridiculous.
Not alone does excess fat injure your health
and endanger your existence, it absolutely destroys
your figure and makes you a ludicrous sight.
Why do you stay fat? “FATCURE” positively
removes excess fat, and will restore your spoiled
figure to decent and pleasing proportions, and is
always a sure and lasting cure for obesity and
corpulency. A few doses improves your breathing
wonderfully, and the course of treatment will
cure you. RESULTS GUARANTEED.
It is the only successful, and, at the same time,
harmless, fat-reducer that has ever been discov-
ered. Its efficacy has been undeniably demon-
strated in thousands of successfully-treated cases.
It is totally and absolutely non-poisonous, and can
in no wise work any injury to the general health ;
though it often reduces excess weight by as much
as a pound a day.
Too Thin Women. If you
ar.e flat-chested, thin, run
down, and scraggly—even
if you never had a nicely-
rounded bosom. Dr. Fai-
lure's Flesh-food will
build you up and develop
your figure. Does your
mirror mock yefh ? Flesh-
food will remove the faults
in your figure by rounding
out and developing the de-
ficient places. Put up in
Tablet form, it is easy to
use and pleasant to take,
and, if desired, may be
J
taken secretly. Taken under our directions, it
will work wonders for your appearance.
In many cases bust measurements have been
increased by over ten inches, and the weight over
five pounds weekly. Other cases have shown an
increase in weight of even a pound a day. The
average bust increase desired is about six inches,
and is readily accomplished. Results Guaranteed.
FLESH-FOOI) offers relief and development to
the thousands of chronically thin women who
have despaired of ever possessing a presentable
figure. It is a nerve and tissue food treatment
that adds weight and permanent development to
attenuated women.
WE SUPPLY FREE SAMPLE OF EITHER “ FATCURE ” or “ FLESH - FOOD.”
•?AOT2rmv» ar ? p, /? d say , whic , h remedy you want, and we will send free sample, also free book,
OBESITi to fat people and “Bl ST” to thin ones. Be sure to say which sample you want.
No matter where you live we can treat you successfully by post. Confidential. Write or call to-day.
The Watworth Falliere Assn,. 1103Ashst.,Sydney.
* [AiBn.
The paint that
guarantees results.
\
Every tin of “ B-P ” Berger’s Paint (Pre-
pared) carries a guarantee that, properly used,
the paint will cover more surface, look better
and last longer than any other paint
made. For painting buildings inside and
outside it is unequalled. There are many
other “Berger” Paints for special purposes—from Coach
and Motor Car painting to Barn painting— and each is
the best for its paiticular purpose.
Ask your painter to use
On sale throughout the Commonueafthf?
Foe name of Focal agent send a postcard to
Lewis Berger & Sons (Australia) Ltd.,
p 18, YOUNG STREET, SYDNEY.
(WHOLESALE ONLY)
e
STOP
SMOKING!
MOST MEN would cure themselves of the
Tobacco habit if they knew they could
do so easily and without discomfort.
It takes but ten minutes for tobacco to
change the beats of the heart. To keep it up
is to tempt death by Heart Disease, Nervous
Collapse, Tobacco Cancer, and Stomach,
Liver or Kidney Disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless, vege-
table remedy that will make the user of
tobacco in any form absolutely abandon the
habit for good" It not only destroys the crav-
ing, the desire, the appetite for tobacco, but
restores to health the entire nervous system,
and aids nature in entirely eliminating from
the system the Nicotine Poison.
You Can Try It FREE.
Send 2d. Stamp, and we will post you a
FREE SAMPLE, also our FREE BOOKLET
—“The Tobacco Habit and Its Consequences.”
Mr. Prank Ford (Blackall P. 0., Q’land)
writes: “I was a heavy smoker for 65 years,
but after taking your treatment for I>,\ days I
gave the pipe up for good, and never think of
smoking now.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G, 107 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
[2.
PREPAID TO YOUR PORT.
Tea Days’ Trial allowed. Direct from
Factory. Hi#heat-grade British MEAD
Coventry Flyers
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS.
Defiance Puncture-Resisting or Dunlop
Tyres, Coasters, Variable-Speed Gears, Flyer
or Brook's Saddles, etc,
£3.tO «. £9
Tyres and accessories at half usual prices.
Write at once, using sufficient postage,
for Free Art Catalogue and Special
Offer on sample machine. Agents wanted.
MEAD
CYCLE COMPANY,
Dent. LIVERPOOL.
AGENT for- MEAD CYCLES
VAL. D. COLE, Book Arcade, Melbourne.
LARGE STOCKS ON HAND. ALL MODELS^
The’Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centurlea.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
in uae sine* 1506.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist tor its history—the book is free—or writs
S. GREEN. 210. Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
PAGES FOU EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of Tiie Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Hava you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Never mind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fsct. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling Steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
solt rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men. women <fc children.
T.ESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic.
THE GREAT REMEDY
FOR RHEUMATISM.
I
<LA Ufa
W GOUT w
& RHEUMATIC PILLS
The severe pain of Rheumatism,
Lumbago, Sciatica, Neuralgia,
can be relieved and cured by
BLAIR’S Pills, the one Medicine
that has stood the test of Time.
Purely vegetable. Sure and Safe.
Sold by alf Chemists and Drug
Stores, and 229, Strand, London,
England, in Boxes at Is. and 2s. 6d.
LOVERS’ ENCYCLOPAEDIA.
If nature has not gifted you with words and manners
that win hearts, the Lovers’ Encyclopaedia will
supply the art. It considers the whole subject from
the time you meet until you two are one. Valuable
chapters about dress, personal appearance and many
other things heretofore secrets. Reproductions of
curious love letters & FIFTEEN HUN'DRED tit-bits
in prose and poetry that you can find daily use for.
2/6 posted will bring the book, and incidentally, hap-
piness with the one you love. ANGLO- AMERICAN
FOB. CO., Waterloo Ch’mb’s, Geo-st, Sydney,N.S.Y/.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Remorse of Rustic Imaginings.
the silver scorn of morning,
VV hen the early roosters crow,
And the milk jugs are adorning
All the doorsteps in our row;
*' the last loud cab-wheels turning
Echo down the empty street,
■Bitter memory starts the churning
Of a butter age must eat.
In the milk-house of my fancy
AH the pans are set to cool;
Sighs of Jane and tears of Nancy
Lie as soft as carded wool;
Tender thoughts of silken tresses
Rennet of remorse can tease,
I ill the curd is in the presses
And the cream is hardest cheese.
Distant dreams are coldly lowing
Like a herd of dairy cows....
Lank grey whiskers round me growing
Mock the faith of maiden vows.
Once for me some happy fairy
deemed each day the pails to scald,
When my heart was one glad dairy,
Ere I started to get bald.
Poddy calves in happy places
Wag their tails against the day,
But for me the elder graces
Pass like bullocks in a dray;
Pass with all their hot chains creaking
As they pull against my heart,
Time, the ox-conductor, speaking
Words that tear my soul apart.
Rural fancies these that hold me.
Round me like a hive of bees
Were the pretty lips that told me
How my own hot lips could please ;
Now in ways devoid of gladness,
Grey care makes with me her home,
And the beeswax melts in sadness
From a drained and broken comb.
Brief as cows, or cream, or honev.
Frail as lucerne, weak as grass,
Bliss and beauty, dreams and money
Down youth’s winding roadway pass;
But below in some cold valley
Surely malt is in the tub—
Age his whiskers yet may rally
In a young and tameless pub.
In the silver light of morning,
Though the mocking rooster crow
And romance with bitter scorning
Sees my bald head balder grow,
I can tickle wings of fancy
Till the things that once were dear—
Lins of Jane or eyes of Nancy—
Live refreshed in tender beer.
N.s.w.
CURSE O' MOSES.
Me ’n’ You.
Oh, for the winss of a spirit blest
To fly right away on the wild wind west,
Away to the isles on the ocean blue.
To the little brown hut built for me ’n’ you—
Just you ’n’ me,
By the cocoanut tree,
Little brown hut,
It’s there —ah, but—
Oh, for the will of the occult adept
To slip right away while my body slept,
Away to the shores of the white sea sand
Where the little brown hut looks over the
strand—-
For me ’n’ you
By the ocean blue,
Little brown hut
Waits there —ah, but—
N.s.w.
SYDNEY PARTRIDGE.
Evening.
From Summer hills above the tranquil sea
I watch the city as the day’s gates close;
It wears its smoky veil of mystery,
Tinged with the sun’s last gift of faintest
rose;
And, o’er the jewelled hills that swiftly rise
From out the sea, appear Night’s sleepless
eyes.
Old memories stir and half-forgotten things
Pass through the mind like hooded monks
to prayer;
Close by a drowsy bird folds wearied wings
That dare not beat the warm, enchanted
air:
And, in the bays, far from the boisterous
sea.
The still ships dream of voyages to be.
This day’s dull strife is done, with all its
hates :
To-morrow lurks full-armed. I do not
care;
Mi no enemy is safe bevond the gates ;
With none this windless sanctuary I share.
’Neath kindly stars, the world bv toil opprest
Has reached the evening paradise of rest.
n.s.w.
E. FRANCIS.
Fate.
Strange how you yesterday drifted
Into my life unawares;
Destiny, chance, you may name it,
Either or both —who cares?
Surely I heard your heart singing,
And singled you out from the
throng —
I a maker of ballads,
You a singer of song!
Had Fate a whimsical moment,
Linking our lives for fun.
Flinging a laugh o’er her shoulder,
Mocking when it was done?
Or did some power diviner,
Compassionate, sweep us along—
I a maker of ballads,
You a singer of song?
Is this the end or beginning?
Shall you, bewildering flame,
Dazing my soul with a promise,
Vanish, forgetting my name?
Or our hearts, beating together.
The gamut of passion prolong—
I a maker of ballads,
You a singer of song?
N.S.W.
W. M. WHITNEY.


SMART SUNSHADES.
A dainty parasol is quite indispensable these sunny days, and
the woman who appreciates smartness and refinement will not
hesitate to select one of MARCUS CLARK’S elegant Parasoxs.
r
v.
1. —Smart striped Parasol, in various new shades From 4/11
2. —Neat Black and White striped Parasols From 4/11
Silk Parasols, in plain silk, sky, rose, cream, white, etc., etc 8/11
A Special Line of Tussore Silk Sunshades, lined green S/ll
Very Smart White Embroidery Parasols 9/11
Silk Parasols, in light or dark shades, extra good quality h rom 12/6
Carriage paid on all classes of Drapery to any Australian add) ess.
MARCUS CLARK & CO. LTD.,
Central Square,
OPP. RAILWAY STATION, SYDNEY.
TO DISCRIMINATING SMOKERS.
The Famous POT POORRI
For Pipe Smokers —POT POURRI TOBACCO
The Finest Blend of Tobacco
Produced in the World.
4oz. Tins, 2/-; Boz. Tins, 4/-; lib. Tins, 8/-
Postage 4d. extra. . Postage 6d. extra. Postage 9d. extra.
For Cigarette Smokers —POT PQURRI CIGARETTES
TURKISH—SO for 4/6, postage 4d. extra; 100 for 9/-, postage 6d. extra.
VIRGINIA—IOO for 4/9, postage 6d. extra ; 1000 for 45/-, postage 1/6 extra.
Send for my Illustrated Catalogue, post free.
A A. MARKS, 376 George Street, SYDNEY.
ifcmMgtorp
MARK
rift
Remington.‘UMC 22 Calibre
Cartridges are accurate and
uniform. The best shooters
the world over use them.
JPem/sigto/t:
TRAD€ MARK
19
20
21
21
21
20
19
21
20
19
The World’s Record
At 75 Feet, Standing.
This target shows the highest record ever made in a 100-Shot 22 Calibre
, Match. The match took place in March 1911, at the Zettler Gallery,
Now York, the winner being Arthur Hubalek with a score of 2<C4
out of a possible 2500. Mr. Hubalek used Lesrr.c
Cartridges. This stands as the highest record ever made and is a
score which probably will stand for many years before it is broken.
KKMI N GTOX-U.MC BLACK, “LESMOK” AND SMOKELESS
POWDER CARTRIDGES FOR SALE BY LEADING DEALERS
EVERYWHERE.
PUMPS WATER DAlf ™ N,GHT
AUTOMATICALLY.
RAM
RIFE
Low in first cost, easy to install, no expense to operate, any
capacity desired for Country Homes, Farms, Dairies,
Gardens, Irrigation, Town Plants, Railroad Tanks, etc.
RIFE HYDRAULIC RAMS
RAISE WATER 30 FEET for EVERY FOOT OF FALL.
Satisfaction Guaranteed. ' Over 7000 in use.
GET OUR FREE TRIAL
OFFER.
2613 Trinity Bldg.
If there is aistream, spring or pond within a mile—
WRITE FOR FREE PLANS r> .J BOOK.
RIFE ENGINE CO New York.
£
\
*
&
X
Sf
=m
rr.'T.
MW
£ r »I
0>
VA
V'l
■%,TIT.
I«'l
<K?;:?Ti*
IM
*3
OJA
//xy/
W.J.V
‘AVj
Jf.W
OAV
‘ • v i
L‘M
sc&a
•e
jj'.f*.
SJ
p?*,
s;v
U
m
»«*
JL&
Jf
w*
'.vn
£
U'.V.V
v
a
3
4?
i/i
s^3
SI
kssb
“WATERSHED” HOSE.
“Watershed” is certainly the very best of Hose. Wherever you go you will find it in
use. and whoever you find using it will tell you that it is superior in every feature that
makes for solid service and permanent satisfaction.
Price List, sample of Hose, and all details, free on request.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO., LTD.,
“THE BEST HOUSE FOR ALL RUBBER GOODS,”
270 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY. And at 105 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
I
HOTEL
METROPQLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 11s. per day, or apartments
may he secured separately by the day from 3s. 6d. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to Thk Manager.
NEW SEAM SANITARY CAN
FOR FOOD
PRODUCTS.
Th 2 Entire Top Open.
Sealed without Heat, Solder or Objectionable Fluxes.
*>*
'
anil
HOUR NEW AUTOMATIC DOUBLE SEAMER will
readily handle over 2000 ends hourly, and may be operated
by a boy. Our machines are made for all kinds and sizes
of cans. Will stand both retort and bath processing.
Cheap, more attractive, wholesome and better. Send for
our Catalogue.
H The machine meeting with the greatest success in Aus-
tralia, South Africa and America.
H AMS INCLINABLE POWER PRESSES, for stamping
all kinds of metal work. They are not surpassed by any-
thing in the market.
We Furnish Complete Outfits for Making These Cans.
Max Ams Machine Co.
Mt. Vernon, New York, U.S.A.
EUROPEAN AGENCY: C. CUELPA di L., Corso Dante, 41, Torino, Italy.
BEST STORIES written in Australia appear in THE
1 LONE HAND each month. Price Sixpence.
THe Famous BOOMERANG Mouth Organ
Sweet, Strong, Loud, Perfect and Tuneful.
ALBERTS YSTEM
as
Hltß"
BOOMERANG
“ BOOMERANG GRAND," large size 6/6, small 3/6
•‘ PROFESSIONAL,” large size 4/-, small size 2/
BOOMRRANG,” large size 2/6, small size 1/6.
‘ POCKET BOOMERANG,” 1/., post free.
ARCH-BELL BOOMERANG,” with 40 reeds, 2 bells
price 5/6 ; 80 ids., 2 bells, 10/- ; 160 rds.,4bells, 17/d!
TRADE SUPPLIED.
CAUTION—Mouth Organ Artists
and Learners are respectfully cau-
tioned against unscrupulous Shop-
keepers, who try to “talk in” the
customer by offering him inferior
goods, which are only a weak imita-
tion of the “ BOOMERANG,” the
Monarch of Mouth Organs, if vour
man has not a “BOOMERANG"
Month Organ—the one you came for
—walk straight out,; don’t accept
the spurious substitute with the
shopkeeper’s assertion “ iust as
, anrt get lhe “ BOOMER.
Am. from another store.
iN
n.
/
ALBERT
SON,
137-9 King Street,
•Sydney.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 34.—N0. 1716.
THURSDAY. JANUARY 2. 1913.
Priob 6d.
THE ELEPHANT AND THE CHICKENS.
Mr. Knox's desire to be left alone is reminiscent of Dickens’s version of laissez-faire. “Every man for himself, and God for us all,” as
the elephant said when he danced among the chickens -Professor Jethro Brown, President of the Sugar Commission.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
I’rinted and published by William Mac-
Leod, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets,
Mosman, for The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.. 214
George-street, Sydney, New South Wales,
Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum .. .. ..£l6O
Half-yearly .. .. . • 013 6
Quarterly ..' .. .. 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every rveek for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by taking
some care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, vjhere prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence ” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the
form of Political. Social or other Articles, Verse,
Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 8000 words, are specially accept-
able). Paragraphs, Letters or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS.
when the address is specified and stamps are en-
closed. But no MS. will be returned, or preserved ,
unless these conditions are observed. When MS. is
forwarded without stamps for return it will be un-
derstood that the copy is to be destroyed if not ac-
ceptable. Personal applications for return of MS.
cannot receive attention. The Bulletin desires,
further, those sending MS. to distinctly understand
that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any pic-
ture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS,
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co.. Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Hastings Street,
Jcpson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street.
San Francisco; C. IF. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; IF. E. Lenehan, 585
— 29th Street, San Francisco; G. A. Hussey, World’s
Fair Newspaper Agency, San Francisco; Queen City
News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pcdder Street, Hong
Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland.
Tasmania and New Zealand; and on account of
Messrs. Atkinson and Co., and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide
■ —at 4/6 per doz. nett.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size
6sin. x 11/in., and gelatine transparencies, will be
forwarded on application. Larger metal plates can
be supplied if desired.
Postage Rates .
Single Copies The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper):—Throughout the Commonwealth, New
Zealand, Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, lOoz. id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, 16oz. Id. Only one newspaper should be en-
closed in each packet — otherwise, Boz. Id., and BJoz. to
10oz., 2id.; lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, ioz., Id.,
and id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 2, 1913.
THE DREAD OF A NAME.
If one wishes to scandalise and embarrass
the average modern Laborite it is only neces-
sary to call him a Unificationist; and no-
toriously if it is desired to drive a Liberal
frantic, the thing may be swiftly done by
charging him with indifference to the Fed-
eral system of government, and a leaning
towards that system which N. S. Wales and
Victoria flourished under foT* decades. Yet
the Laborite should be a Unificationist, if
he is a sincere Democrat, and the “Liberal”
or Tory was an extremely enthusiastic one
till a few years ago; and, incidentally, about
the same time, he was a rabid anti-Federal-
ist. Why this horror of a term which is not
considered shameful in other parts of the
world, and was not thought so here till
quite recently? How does it come about that
to be taxed with favoring Unification in
Australia is tantamount, in the opinion of
many, to an accusation of malignant ruffian-
ism? The explanation is to be found in the
power of Conservatism and its press to fool
a considerable part of the people, for part, if
not all, the time, on any given issue. Fhe
bogey of Protection has been dead for years.
The corpse of G. H. Reid’s Socialistic Tiger
was swept off Australia’s national doorstep
some time ago. A. fresh political menace had
to be found to replace those which had gone
to the graveyard. And so we have the cal-
amity of Unification, and the humorous
spectacle of Imperialists leaping with rage
at the suggestion that what is good enough
for nine-tenths of the Empire should be good
enough for them. And, furthermore, we
have Democrats as exalted as J. C. Wat-
son talking this way :
1 must object to being classed as a Unificationist.
With other members of the then Labor party, 1 voted
against the Constitution when put before the people
in 1898 and 1909, not because I believed in Unifica-
tion, but because, etc., etc.
It recalls the Socialist who brought a libel
action against a newspaper three or four
years ago because the sheet called him what
he was.
This tendency to furiously deny the cause
which doesn’t happen to be fashionable for
the moment is old as opportunism. It lasts,
mostly, till someone of authority and im-
portance declares for the forbidden creed.
Immediately that happens all the little
people who normally allow their morning
papers to think for them on all the bigger
questions discover, as one sheep, that they
agreed with the great man all the time.
Only the other month it was as much as a
suburban attorney’s status in his golf club
was worth to own up to an approval of the
Australian navy scheme. The worthy
burghers who frequented those and similar
institutions were accustomed to lay it down
very firmly, and with a taking air of having
just evolved a set of bright, new thoughts—
(l) that a “mosquito” fleet was useless and
a tactical absurdity; (2) that the guns of
the Australian squadron were pre-destined
to be discharged at the battleships of
Britain; (3) that, anyhow, Australians
couldn’t be trained into effective sailors;
and (4) that all who argued to the con-
trary were disloyalists and would-be bursters
of Empire. After a while a couple of Eng-
lish admirals spoke approvingly of local
sea-defence, and bestowed high praise on
the locally-bred man-o’-warsman. The ob-
jectors then unhesitatingly consumed the
whole of their hostile remarks concerning the
Australian navy proposition at one meal. At
the present moment it takes a searchlight,
several bloodhounds and a regiment of detec-
tives to beat up so much as one anti-
navyite of a type that was as common as
dust before the Dreadnought fiasco. The
cant cry against “conscription” (that it
was “un-English,” “an interference with the
inalienable liberty of the subject,” and so
forth) expired early here. It is in its
death-throes in the United Kingdom, largely
because such unimpeachable authorities as
Roberts and Kitchener have declared for
compulsory service. That they deny that
the particular variety of conscription which
they advocate is the same as some Conti-
nental varieties is neither here nor there.
This attitude is palpably taken up in defer-
ence to the more or less unthinking public’s
habit of becoming shocked at a Name. In
a similar spirit, Protectionists in Britain
continue warily to call themselves Preferen-
tialists or Tariff Reformers. The alleged
curse of Protection—the curse which has
made Germany and America commercially
and otherwise —is still regarded as a genuine
Menace by many British electors, such is
the baleful and abiding influence of a Name.
To call a man a Socialist 20 years ago
was tantamount to classing him with
pariah dogs: 10 years later a Socialist had
come to be generally regarded by the some-
what muddy-minded Man of the Street as a
sort of false-alarm Anarchist —one who,
while far from desirable, by reason of his
garish-hued ties, shagginess and other un-
pleasant characteristics, was nevertheless
harmless to life and limb. The other day
Lord Rosebery staggered villadom by ob-
serving casually: “We are all Socialists
now.” Anti-Socialists from Glasgow (N. 8.)
to Cairns (N.Q.) gazed at their State-and
municipal-owned trains, trams, canals, elec-
tric light works, gas factories, etc., etc.,
and realised suddenly that it was so. Where-
upon anti-Socialism, in the old acceptation of
the term, fell ill and shortly afterwards died.
It was eminently appropriate that, in a com-
munity where everyone is achieving a large
measure of comfort and profit as the direct
results of Socialism, this should happen.
There is no doubt it would have happened
years earlier had not the papers worked on
the horror of the name Socialist to such good
purpose.
All through the ages people have been
terrified at names which, starting by being
terms of opprobrium, came ultimately to be
terms of honor. A Whig meant originally
a “sour-face,” or smug hypocrite (what
Webster defines these days as a Wowser) ;
and likewise it meant a rebel. In the early
part of the 17th century Whigs quivered
with shame when they were called Whigs.
About the same period a Tory stood in the
eyes of many for a cattle-thief and an out-
law, and persons of respectability evinced
no yearning whatever to be so labelled. Yet
the time came when the greatest in the land
classed themselves variously as Whigs or
Tories, and were unashamed, not to say
proud, of the names. When the Christians
first came out of Antioch they were the most
heartily reprobated sect or gang that Syria
had known. For years and years any man
who was convicted of Christianity had, ipso
facto, to remove his name from the books
of all his clubs, so to speak. He became
automatically a social outcast and a stand-
ing menace to the welfare of the nation.
The Roman authorities sought to convince
him of the error of his views by making
lion’s meat of him—a proselytising effort
which evoked shrieks of applause from the
Right-Thinkers of that dark epoch. It was
far more dishonorable to be termed a Chris-
tain then than it has ever been in our day to
be called a Freetrader or a milk adulterator
or a pro-Boer or a third party man or a bur-
glar. In the fulness of time there was born
a ruler who discerned the mighty future
which lay before Christianity. Constantine
threw the weight of his influence into the
scale, and the creed which had been voiced
for so long by a handful of outsiders and
eccentrics, became the religion of Rome.
Considerations such as the above operate
to hearten the Australian Unificationist con-
siderably. They remind him that nothing
lasts, not even stupidity, and that a time
inevitably comes when folks who favor some
new and rational departure in life, whether
it is the wearing of low collars or the dis-
carding of bustles, the habit of riding in
hansom cabs or the substitution of universal
suffrage for the Old Sarum system of arriv-
ing at an expression of a sovereign-people s
will, are given their chance. Why the IJni-
ficationists haven’t got theirs long ago is a
mystery, or may be it is merely a glowing
tribute to Liberalism’s infinite capacity tor
distorting facts. For example, Australian
Liberals are only anti-Unificatiomsts while
they are in the Commonwealth. When they
go to London they are all for Unification, in
fully 90 per cent, of cases. If some reck-
less innovator arose in Hyde Park or Trafal-
gar Square, and argued that it was absurd
that one central Parliament should legislate
for the 33 million people who inhabit Eng-
land and Wales, and that these two coun-
tries should be split up into a number of
States, with its own “Upper and
“Lower” House, and imported State Gov-
ernors and retinue, the Australian Liberal
would certainly laugh the notion to scorn.
If the innovator went on to lay it down
that the existing central Parliament, with
its absolute power over the whole of the
trade and commerce of England and Wales,
should be abolished, as it would be bound in
a short time to interfere wantonly with the
operations of every inoffensive little business
concern from Land’s End to the Wash, the
Australian Liberal would probably inquire
what the Colney Hatch authorities were
doing to let this unique idiot be at large.
He would point to the fact that the British
Parliament has held full sway over the trade
and commerce of England and Wales for
many centuries, and that in all that time
it has never once exercised its authority in
an inequitable or demented fashion. Prob-
ably before passing angrily on his way, he
would condemn the orator for a dishonest
agitator who was attempting to . work on
the terrors of the crowd by the flimsiest of
threats. Yet when the same man arrives
back in Australia, and finds the Unification
issue under consideration, he employs pre-
cisely analagous arguments those of the
innovator above mentioned. When calamity-
bowlers like W. E. Johnson, and Fuller
and Fairbairn, claim that if the Referen-
dum questions are carried the Federal
Houses will at once use their new powers to
“nationalise every petty industry in the
land,” they do not necessarily mean that, in
their estimation, the Australian Parliament
is any more wicked or mad than the British
Parliament. These preposterous yarns are
part of the political game. Just now, the
aim of every convinced Tory is to horrify
the constituencies with the Constitutional
change that is going to make progressive
legislation both possible and effective.
The attitude of these bogus Liberals is
understandable. Not so, however, that of
the Nationalist and Democrat (meaning J.
C. Watson) who goes out of his way to
disclaim all sympathy with Unification. He
resembles the compulsory-service enthusiast
who shudders at the word conscription; like-
wise the ostrich which plunges its head in
the sand at the approach of danger. There
is nothing to be gained by disingenuous tac-
tics in regard to the Fisher Government’s
Referendum proposals. One of the few fair
criticisms which have been levelled at them
by Liberalism is that if they mean anything
they mean something like Unification. The
carrying of the Trade and Commerce Clause
Amendment will, of itself, bring the Com-
monwealth near enough to Unification to
satisfy most reasonable patriots. And it is
a necessary reform. The New Protection (a
DEAKiN-ite measure which is warmly ap-
proved even by the bulk of Liberalism) was
slain owing to the presence of the Trade and
Commerce clause in the Federal Constitu-
tion. It was decided in Rex v. Barger that
the Excise Act “infringed upon the implied
prohibition against interference with the
internal trade and commerce of the States.”
Practically the whole of the Federal Par-
liament’s anti-Trust legislation has been
rendered impotent by the same agency.
Appleton’s case laid it down, in effect,
that so long as the Trade and Commerce
clause stood, the National Parliament could
not deal with any Trust, however injuri-
ous, which made a fair pretence at confin-
ing its depredations to one State. And the
same obstructive old clause debars the
Federal Arbitration Court from making a
common rule. These measures are at the
very heart of all democratic legislation in
Australia. In the words of the old-time
Gallic sovereign, they are surely worth a
mass. To put it in another way, they are
well worth a little plain speaking. The
time is ripe for those who believe in what
amounts to Unification to jettison their
foolish dread of the influence of a mere
name on the electors and come out with a
frank confession of belief in Unification it-
self. Of course there will be a howl of
grief and anguish at first. People will be-
have, for a while, as though someone was sug-
gesting another massacre of the 'innocents.
This invariably happens when a new idea
is pushed to the front in a large and defin-
ite way. But the uproar will quickly peter
out. It always does. And when, as will
presently occur, every tram and train holds
its cargo of unabashed Unificationists the
march in the direction of social reform will
really have begun.
AUSTRALIA AS SHE IS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“She hath put on glorious apparel, and girded
herself with strength.”
“For God’s sake,” said “Omar” Fitzgerald, salon
weary, smart-set sick, and hungry for reality, “for
God’s sake, let me get away to a Suffolk woman
and a sunbonnet.”
Australians in Australia’s capitals must
be sick and weary of things even less whole-
some than those which drove Fitzgerald
out of town. For there has been bruited up
about us an atmosphere of self-depreciation,
of detrimentalism, through which of late
some clumsy Newgate calendaring has ob-
truded, making the whole place reminiscent
in a degree of what may be termed Aus-
tralia’s middle period—that period when
squatting was supposed to have reached its
limit, when manufactures were unknown
farming stifled but struggling, and Dr. Lang
fighting hard to expel convictism from its
dominant position in the press.
Despite all that pessimists and those in
whom patriotism takes a second place to
Mammon-worship say, “She hath put on
elorious apparel and girded herself with
strength.” Over all that territory whicl \
focuses on the two great heads of Sydney
and Melbourne, the roaring loom ot time
has woven a garment to make gods and men
rejoice. How lucent, how splendid, how
gorgeous it shows along the ribbon of the
coastal country, from Otway to the Tweed!
How full and plenteous on all the inner zone,
which has Dimboola, Wagga, Forbes, Dubbo,
Collarendabri as bosses on its outer edge.
How bountiful over all the West, which may
be imagined or realised now even in the dim
light afforded by the records of the day.
Look out from Forbes or Condobolin
on the Lachlan. Let contemplation ex-
pand as a fan unfolds, with the Barrier
as the centre of the arc; and behold a land
all gracious, all bountiful; full of sustenance
and of promise.
From northward and westward, true
enough, there always come ominous rumors.
Out there the wings of the drought are ever
ready to unfold, and oppress things; and,
judging by all precedent, this year, or next
year, the shadow of the drought will reach
down to the midlands, if not the coastal
country, and then the whole of Australia
will show anything but glory, and her
strength may be sorely tried.
In this present, however, we can look
out on a good and a great country. The
German Empire could lie comfortably
enough in its lap. And it is well furnished,
all and in all sorts, for man and beast.
Melbourne men this spring looked out with
a curious and purblind sense of appreciation
from city and suburban heights. From
Royal Park long vistas ooened out of inex-
pressible, unpaintable green, through banks
of pine, or rifts in the smoke and haze belt,
which to the working city is as an overall
to the worker. From the crown of that
slope where the dead lie at Kew, the outlook
is fairer still. The river gleams there be-
tween willowy or wattle banks. The native
timber folds dark arms about fields of that
same intense green, and distance beyond dis-
tance, the prospect opens to low’, and com-
fortable-looking horizon hills ; cobalt-vested,
satin-swathed with the mists that linger
all day long. From Oakleigh, again, to-
wards- the Dandenongs, a bolder skyline
closes a narrower view.
To the bushman born or bred, or made by
experiences and endurances, these outlooks
bring longings not easily suppressed ; recog-
nitions not on any account to v be laid aside.
He kpows so well that all the; fair prospect
will be continuously amplified and beautified
along any outward track. Westward, the
Werribee is all aglow with verdure. The
You Yangs, that we have known as gaunt
earth-bones gleaming in a desert land, show
opaline now in the evening glow, above the
forest fringes rising all about their feet. On
the Barrabool hilb is the poet’s spring -
Once more the heavenly power makes all things new,
And domes the red-ploughed hills with loving blue.
Beyond those hills the old Australia Felix
appears happy to-day as when the explorer
first intruded on its solitudes. Invitation
radiates from millions of broad acres, mag-
netic influences, potent if not effective, to
draw tens of thousand of people, thither.
And yet the cry is sent out,-*'No room!
No room!” There will be room and to spare,
when Colac and Casterton, Hamilton and
Warrnambool, are cities, populous and pros-
perous as Ballarat and Bendigo ; and when
villages crest the dowms. or nestle- in the
hollows of the hills, thicker than home
stations now.
On the seaward skirt of that fair land the
broidery is exquisitely beautiful and in-
finitely varied. In the forests the sap of
mighty life is welling up. Fierce extremes
of color flood the leaves of the gigantic
eucalypts. The fern fronds are bursting out
in lusty riot of spring life. Beech leaves
are pink tipped, and lightwood glossier than
any laurel; even beneath the grass trees
and the harsh scrub growths of the coast
there is a delicately beautiful flower growth :
heaths on the loose sand, nameless blossoms
cleaving to the sod of the rare patches of
unflooded swamp.
And “the long wash of Australasian
shores” thunders on the cliff fronts, booms
on the beaches, northward and westward, a
thousand leagues. ;
Now that harsh winter and gloom-
breasted, storm-crested equinox have passed,
there is expansive, lucent, luxurious beauty'
over that eastern ocean strait. One of our
poets whom the cackling, carping critics of
the time do not know, knew it well. For
there, as he imaged forth—
Sailed Tasman down a great and gleaming space
Whose softer lights were like his lady’s face,
And saw in streaming sunsets everywhere
The curious beauty of her golden hair
In long-forgotten days.
We feel the brush of the wings* of a
bygone time in a land that is ,Yiot much
changed, where, beyond the Glenelg, great
morasses lie beneath grim foothills reaching
down to the coast; with black waters mir-
roring red sunsets, and miles of reed and
rush-growth rustling eerily over the nests
of the innumerable wild fowl..
Eastward and northward thence, all is
rich and fair, wooing to human industry
and enterprise. The grass ripples, the crops
wave between Shadwell and the Elephant,
a n d Sturgeon and the Emu. The heaths are
all abloom in the Grampians (Australia’s
choicest heaths are there) ; and beyond, all
the great wheat country of the Wimmera
and the Mallee.
Far away northward on the river skirts
ot the Mallee is Mildura. Like the smell of
u vineyard in bloom comes the memory of
Mildura now. Mildura with mile after mile
ot orchards all abloom, with fields of oranges
bearing their Hesperidean fruit, thick
amongst the glossy foliage; with 5000
people, well planted and prosperous in cir-
cumstances which we can repeat at will over
hundreds of square miles of our country.
~ ce °f that, also, the cry is raised:
No room. No room! No resource! No
hope!’
Down any of the railway lines running
fu 0 ? l\ e M urra y this spring-tide
m aZ j S ort J l denial of the malignant or insane
slanders of this our land. Avoca, and Lod-
* Campaspe, and Goulburn valleys
and watersheds are each as the valley of the
when. the flood has been full; and
~ pp . uud .now, as in most other years,
as \ r i ch a hr east (and the riches
rlasting) to a million farming folk, as


did Mt. Forrest or Golden Gully or Baker’s
Hill to the hundreds of thousands who
swarmed on to them while yet the land was
young.
It is good, wholesome, encouraging, in-
spiring, even in imagination to roam ’ and
to brood oyer the face of that land.
Courage, will and power come there and
thence, to blast away the contumely and
disparagement exhaled from divers sources
and with various mean and pernicious pur-
poses, chief of which is to make an evil re-
putation for us in the world’s mind.
Over the border and all about that other
head of Sydney—head of the jaundiced eye,
the soured palate, the distempered brain-
all things found in this fair State are re-
peated and on a grander scale. Any voice
of Sydney crying, “No room ! No ' scope !
No opportunity !” must be regarded as that
of a fool, or a madman, or a knave. The
powers of the air, the genius of the land,
God Almighty made manifest in His works,
give them the lie. For the one thing to be
learned, and grasped, and understood is that
the conditions of the last years, or others
equally bountiful and profitable, and ade-
quate for the supply of many millions of
people, can be rendered regular and per-
manent by possible and reasonable human
effort and enterprise.
Not once in five-and-twenty years do the
former or the latter rains fail along all the
New- South Wales coastal country. The
waratah glows ruddier than the cherry, and
the flame-tree darts its crimson tongue
through the heavy forests of the South. Un-
broken banners of purple and gold, rose-
pink and snow, break out over the low,
scrubbed sandy dunes about Sydney, and
the big scrub of the northern rivers is glori-
ous beyond the understanding of men w-hose
experiences have been solely in Australia’s
temperate zones.
There is all the riotous, lusty strength of
the Gippsland scrub, but shot through with
a livelier color, crowned with a rarer
beauty. There, regent, dragon and rifle
birds flash from gloom to gloom. There the
tinted snow of the maiden’s blush tree comes
drifting down ; there the yellow tufts of the
orchid blooms gleam through dark foliage
of cedar and beech, a hundred feet aloft.
It is as fair a land and as promising as ever
was old Virginia in the days Mary Johnston
recreates with such splendid fidelity. In all
native resources and essentials of individual
and national prosperity and wealth, the
valley of the Clarence is richer than the
valley of the Thames, and the valley of the
Hunter than the valley of the Tyne.
Across the Divide in that old New Hol-
land, modern New South Wales, are re-
source and opportunity not exactly compar-
able to those of the Mississippi valley, but
certainly vast beyond all the understanding
of our conservative politicians and publi-
cists. In many respects Nature has. written
over the whole face of that land in these
last seasons what might, and should, be re-
peated in every year.
The Divide is a vast tableland in
New England, a broad, rich, healthful
plateau crossed by the railway on Ben
Lomond at an altitude of 4000 odd feet. A
farmer’s land, a land for a hundred thousand
farms, where even a few hundreds make a
brave show.
Richer by far is the soil of at least three
millions of acres on the Western Falls;
where Macquarie and Castlereagh, Namoi
and Gwydir rivers gather and form ; where
are the southernmost lips of the artesian
basin of mid-Australia; and where a
soil has been prepared which responds
to an abundant rainfall an al-
most jungle growth of grass. Northward
thence to the railway outposts, and for 200
miles beyond, all verdure, high, rank and
green. Camels crush down beds of herbage
on the Darling flats. North from Louth,
Bourke and Brewarrina, on Narran, Culgoa,
Warrego, Paroo country, the artesian bores
are shut down, or are spouting over a sur-
face all oasis. We have but a glimmering
understanding, clouded and obscured by
many doubts, as to what human enterprise
and energy, with artesian water, can do per-
manently on that land. Scientists have de-
monstrated to us how tropic and semi-tropic
rains are drunk in through the rocky lips of
all the Western Falls of the Divide. Practi-
cal effort has tapped the mighty river, or
the reservoirs of the great cretacean caves,
and the results of the waters of that river
poured out on the surface have been various.
It seems impossible, evidence of a malig-
nancy incompatible with the ordinary ways
of nature, that the water thus marvellously
gathered and held should be rendered unfit
for beneficent use. And yet we hear many
reports of poisonous mineral matters held in
solution. Admit some truth in them, and
then ponder on the vast opportunity ot sur-
face storage. Namoi and Castlereagh wateis
conserved and distributed as they might be,
would make for Australia yet another Aile
land. „ . ,
All West thence to the Barrier has once
again something of the face which lured men
out unconsidering, unproviding- and now
calling themselves deluded —in the days be-
fore the last great drought. Man and beast
may range there this season, glad and com-
fortable enough ; but that land holds prob-
lems whose solution has not vet been at-
tempted, in any practicable and reasonably
righteous way. The crowding on of stock
in the good season, and in the full Know-
ledge that they must perish miserably m the
drought, is unrighteousness worthy ot tne
greater damnation. , ,
No land! No room! Who dare repeat
the lie to that man who knows how our
world opens out eastward from Kosciusko s
shining ridge at the head of the Murray
and Murrumbidgee valleys? Away down
that valley, broadening ever westward, west-
ward; there is promise to make an Austia-
lian exult, as President McKinley was
wont to do on the outer fringe of the Mis-
sissippi country. Little of prospect, or
hope, or even possibility far out beyond the
Western bar ; but room enough and resource
enough for a nation in the territory already
tried and proved. Follow down the great
river and its great tributary, whose parent
springs are so narrowly divided ! Think of
the territorial estates on the one and the
other! Recognise, if you will, even face to
face with the limitless bounties of the
spring, the difficulties, the losses, the horrors
of the drought crow in the past, but surely
to come again in the future. Evade, shirk
nothing! But, when the whole of the colos-
sal problem has been grasped, look to the
possibilities, the evidences of which are
SdlT? in OCeanic volume at you by Nature
on^i! e dr ° u S ht return as surely as the
.ummer heat will strengthen, but there is
°° 1 t of drou g h t in all that country
!£ M <* W agga t and Albury than on the
1 Iv ont. And as regards the land of the
Vouhtful rams, listen, if you would learn wis-
m, to the words of a very practical man who
nas used the native resources of Australia to
more profit than any other. “I estimate,” says
SAMUEL McO a ug h e y , “that the flood waters
ot the Murrumbidgee only would, if con-
served and distributed, give sufficient water
every y ea r, to ensure good crops of wheat
on nearly -,000,000 acres of land.” Samuel
Alct aughey is no dreamer, theorist or ex-
perimentalist. He knows that what he says
is practicable. He has carefullv examined
and proved the ways and means suggested
by civil engineers. Two million acres of
irrigated wheat land should mean well-pro-
vided homes for at least 10.000 families.
And that is only a patch of the possibility
contained in that one area. Several mil-
lions of acres of that land have this year
drunk in the six to eight inches of winter
and spring rains, necessary to bring all
native harvests to perfection.
“I have fashioned and furnished and com-
pleted it all for you myself,”' says Nature.
“Will you take and profit by the lesson? I
have put on glorious apparel; I have girded
myself with strength. I have absolutely ex-
emplified potentialities and possibilities,
ways and means.” Men like Samuel
McCaughey know that the way is plain,
the means quite within the sphere of human
capacity. From four to six inches of water
rained down, or led on, work a miracle.
Worse than fooling is the insistent
detrimentalism, the constantly recurring
lying calumny of those whose only conceiv-
able purpose is to cheapen all things Aus-
tralian in the interests of some outside in-
vestors. Utterly contemptible (but for its
mischief), the cackling obstruction of those
of the other extreme. If children in the
market-place, they would be natural enough;
but as men and women of some responsibili-
ties, they are as far past understanding as
toleration. And is there not a residuum
from those who begin to develop a continent
and shape a nation on lines that did no dis-
credit to their race? Have we said abso-
lutely and finally to the bramble: “Come
thou and reign over us”? Possibly it may
be wiser to consider such questions as these
with some seriousness than to turn away in
disgust from their ghastly suggestiveness.
In face of the glorious apparel put on, the
strength made manifest in all our present
circumstances, and the helplessness, the lack
of confidence, the despondency, the stagna-
tion of our life, it does indeed seem that the
bramble-reign is fearfully effective. This
good land is fair and fertile to-day as is
any area of any continent of the world.
Nine-tenths of its beauty will wither and
pass unappreciated. A larger percentage
still of the bounty of its back country will
be shrivelled up and blown away, unutil-
ised, unharvested. And we could well afford
to lose all that if there was any reason to
hope that the lesson of the full time, even
as that of the hungry years past, would not
be lost also.
TELEMACHUS.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The God of the Gate.
Janus, of Rome, took on the special job of
looking after gates and doors. It was for
this that he needed two faces, one to see
what was behind, and the other to watch
out in front. He stuck to this job from the
earliest days to the time of Constantine.
Then he went off the line, and the only
memorial which remains to him is the word
at the beginning of the calendar, and that,
for all it conveys to most of us, might as
well be Kangarooiary or plain Come-and-
have-a-drinkiary. And yet, considering how
few gods there are in business in Australia
to-day, we might do a lot worse than adopt
old Janus for our own use. He has his
limitations, but he is a deity without any
known bad habits, cheap, simple and, in the
main, good-natured. His worship is a prac-
tical one, and consists merely in looking be-
hind and before. There would be no need to
build churches or cathedrals in his inter-
ests, or to send round collection-plates to
supply his needs. The doorway of any old
office, shop or pub could be made sacred to
him. Anybody, with or without spectacles,
could be his priest, and in his theology there
would be only the exact amount of Heaven
and Hell that is here already. Like any
other immigrant, he will, of course, be re-
quired to study the conditions of the coun-
try he has come to live in.' His hind face,
looking backward through a century or so
of change, will observe the road over which
Australia has travelled to reach the year
1913. He will note the struggles of the
pioneers, the little settlements slowly grow-
ing up into prosperous States, the big hopes
of nationhood slowly coming to the birth,
the splendid faith in the future which at
last makes a Commonwealth possible. He
will see the new White Man’s land arise, a
vast continent with endless possibilities of
development, self-contained and filled with
all the vigor of a sturdy youth. Then he
will find it necessary to borrow a magnify-
ing glass to put to his hind eye in order to
study the remarkable insect life of the States
Frighters, who with buzz and sting Seek to
divert the nation from its path of progress;
and, probably, his rear mouth will be heard
to utter a profane word or two, quite unfit
for publication in a family journal. Janus
will be amazed to discover that the Com-
monwealth is tied in certain respects so that
the representatives of the nation cannot do
the nation’s work, and that a large person
called Fat —a sort of deity in a spreading
waistcoat —has his boot planted so firmly on
the continent that it looks as if nothing
short of a thunderbolt or an earthquake or
the display of a little common sense at a
Referendum could shift him. The hind eye
will also note that the great bulk of the
people aren’t worrying to any extent about
their own most vital concerns. The eye’s
owner will be glad to notice the fact that we
intend to regain our lost supremacy in
several branches of sport; but it will be a
source of some regret to him that five out of
six of the people do not know the precise
difference between the New Protection and
a bar of soap. On the whole, then, Janus
will observe with his back face a country of
enormous advantages and opportunities
which has so far failed to realise itself or
its ultimate possibilities. With his front
face —the one that watches the future un-
winding its moving-picture film—he will see
things of even graver concern; for sleepy
administration surrounded by waspish paro-
chialism can have but one end. He will
note some apparent progress in the things
that count least, accompanied by weak pre-
parations for defence and a slothful neglect
of industries on which the vigorous life of a
people depends. He will mark the spirit of
the people, at last awakened, leap to the
height of real nationhood when it is -some
years too late. He will see desperate valor
struggling to make up for the wasted time,
and hurling itself baresark into the unequal
struggle to hold the birthright of the white
man’s children against the strong armed
alien. Slowly before his eyes will unroll the
picture of the Great Forlorn Hope driven
from post to post, Thermopylae following
Thermopylae. Possibly there will be tears
of anger in the front eyes of the god as the
tragedy works to its bitter conclusion —an
Asiatic contihent with a fringe of white men
in the bottom right-hand corner, holding
their narrow possessions at fearful cost of
blood and treasure. Fortunately, the vision
of Janus has nothing in common with the
laws of the Medes and Persians or a weather
forecast. The great advantage of getting
the gifted old deity to use his front face is
that he can tell us, or enable us to see f,or
ourselves, what we may reasonably expect.
And if he can accomplish that, something
else will be done. A special enabling Bill
will be passed providing that all State
Fright insects shall be promptly harpooned
with darning needles and mounted on cork.
The defences of the country—including the
tariff guns which guard our industries —will
be got into thorough working order; railway
gauges will be brought to a uniform stan-
dard, and the direct transcontinental rail-
way to the Northern Territory started at
once and pushed ahead at the rate of a mile
a day. On all sides there will be stir and
bustle, and at the call of Australia men will
forget that Party Government ever existed.
Then old Janus, the big god of common
sense, will smile out over the future of a
White Man’s country that intends to stay
white until Geology or the Day of Judg-
ment calls time. And when things get
really moving in that way, everybody can
shake hands with everybody else, and with
some sort of reasonable confidence wish him
a happy New Year.
-V
Centralisation and Connection.
A Sydney evening paper suggests that
rather than build a straight railway to the
Northern Territory, the Commonwealth
should hand the Territory back to South
Aus. and. pay that State something to be rid
of it. With a beautiful lack of logic and
understanding, the paper declares its opinion
of things:—
Paradoxically enough, by the way, the theorists
who believe in this absurd railway are much the
same group who believe in decentralisation. The
two beliefs seem contradictory. The Northern Ter-
ritory is thoroughly decentralised. It has no Sydney
or Melbourne to batten on it. Horrible railways do
not drag everything to the bloated city.
The Little Australians seem to be at their
last ditch in their puny war against the
North-and-South railway ; yet, even so, it is
distressing to find the office lunatic called in
to supply “arguments” as a last resource.
The first and chief purpose of the direct rail-
way is, of course, to enable white Australian
troops to defend the North as part of a
white man’s country. Fat can’t, perhaps,
see any advantage in keeping the country
white, so the newspapers that are first and
last merely run in the interests of Fat can
naturally see no advantage in a direct rail-
way either.. The secondary purpose of the line
from Port Augusta to Darwin is to open un
the great tracts of land which lie inland, and
to provide speedy connection with southern
settlement for the northern coastal areas
themselves. To argue that ’Frisco required
no connection with New York because there
was a good enough harbor at the Golden
Gate would look too absurd at this time of
day even in a Sydney evening paper; yet the
argument for the Pacific Railway in the
U.S.A. was only half as strong as the argu-
ment for the Transcontinental in Australia.
The Colonial Sugar Refining Co. was in
Maoriland found guilty of “Trust practices”
and fined £lOOO and costs. As everybody
expected, notice of appeal was given; but
as there is no possibility of the Maoriland
law—the creation of a Unified Covernment
—being declared unconstitutional, the appeal
can succeed only through some fresh evi-
dence being produced, or owing to some
error in the legal procedure which prejudiced
the case for the defence. People who don’t
quite know how to vote on the Common-
wealth referenda might-consider this Maori-
land case. The excellent company, presided
over and controlled by men of the highest
character, once it came face to face with
an unhampered tribunal which could get to
the root of the matter, went down in less
than a week. In Sydney the Commission
representing the Australian Parliament was
blocked from getting to the root of the mat-
ter, and the co. is still free in Australia to
pursue the practices which in Maoriland
earned it a fine of £lOOO and costs. Of
course the fine of £lOOO is totally inade-
quate, and the co. will get it back in a day
if it wishes to, by simply making a slight
increase in the price of sugar. For although,
according to Mr. Knox, it is impossible for
the Government to fix prices, the co. seems
to be able to do it without the slightest
difficulty. This paper is not prepared to
say that the C.S.R. follows in Australia the
practices which earned it a £lOOO fine in'
Maoriland; but if the co. has nothing to
conceal, why did it not give the Australian
Government a chance to clear it from
the suspicion which has grown up re-
garding it in the minds of a large section
of the community? It would do the over-
modest company good and make for a better
state of feeling between it and the people it
sweetens.
The High Court has declared the N.S.W.
Influx of Criminals Act of 1903 ultra vires,
inasmuch as it prevents, or tries to prevent,
inter-State traffic. A person convicted of
an offence influxed into N.S.W. from Vic-
toria, was arrested, convicted and gaoled on
general principles. He appealed to the High
Court on the ground that the State hadn’t
any power to put him in gaol, and the Court
decided that it hadn’t, despite the fact that
in gaol he already was. The Court unani-
mously ruled that if the Federal authority
thought fit to admit any person into the
Commonwealth, then any State could not
make laws to prevent his free passage from
the Leeuwin to Cape York. An American
Judge had decided the point years ago, one
reason being that any citizen in the United
States, having a grievance to air before the
President or Parliament, could not be
stopped crossing the boundaries of any can-
tankerous State. This, while excellent law,
has its inconvenient side, the condemned
Act having been passed with the praise-
worthy intention of making the criminal
person stick, as it were, to his own beat, so
that the police might have a better chance
of keeping tally of his movements.
France is feeling very good over the results
of the Balkan war. The Paris correspond-
ent of the Daily Mail says that the French
capital is jubilant because “the war has
been very largely a question of guns, and
the duel between the French artillery of the
Allies and the German artillery of the Turks
has resulted in the triumph of the cannon
made at Creusot.” A special pneumatic
brake appears to have been a large factor
in the Allies’ artillery successes: —
Whea the shot is fired and the recoil takes place,
the gun comes back in a straight line and is ready
to be re-discharged immediately. That is to say, once
the gunner has got the range he has no further
trouble. He generally gets the range in the first
three shots, and he can keep the gun going at the
rate of from 25 to 30 shots a minute.
The murderous effect was demonstrated during the
bombardment of Preschevo, when the Servians had 70
men rendered hors de combat, while the Turkish losses'
exceeded a thousand. The Bulgarians and their
comrades-in-arms never fired at random. Taking his
orders from the officer beside him, who, through his
glasses watches the results of the firing, the gunner
lands his projectiles exactly in the zone correspond-
ing to the square marked on the little chart before
him.
It is a hideously expensive business, this
keeping abreast of the latest devices in
wholesale murder; but there is only one end
to the nation which doesn’t do it. The
United States’ argument with Spain, and
Japan’s argument with Russia, gave pre-
cisely the same answer. The nation which
isn’t prepared to throw its yesterday’s im-
plements of war on the scrap-heap and buy
to-day’s must go on the scrap-heap itself.
♦
From a mother in the Northern Territory:
Apropos the Maternity Bonus (we get news slowly
here>, has it occurred to Prime Minister Fisher
that the payment or whatever you like to call it is
a most unequal one? For instance, a mother up
here regards herself as lucky _if she keeps her lying-
in expenditure under £5O. 'Doctor’s fee (£5 55.),
nurse’s fee ( £6 65.), board and residence (30s. a
week at least), washing (always an extra —4s. per
dozen) —these things mount up. And the patient is
often expected to pay for the nurse’s washing, and
also the bed-linen and towels. When, as sometimes
happens, the mother has to travel to Darwin in
October, or even earlier, and wait until May before
she returns to her own home, she finds the trip
makes a big hole in the banking-account. Many
women prefer to go South for the six months, since
they get the benefit of the change. Of course, a
woman can always stay in her own home, do without
doctor and nurse, and call in any old gin that is
near at hand for the occasion. She will certainly
run the risk of losing her own life and the child’s,
and be even more likely to contract leprosy or some
disgusting disease. But the gin will only need
a few extra sticks of tobacco and a new dress,
so it is the cheaper plan—only few women care to
chance it. If the Government wants to cultivate a
white, home-grown population, a far better and
jus ter plan, so far as we are concerned, would be to
nationalise doctors and nurses, and let every mother
be entitled to free medical attention and nursing
for three months before the baby’s birth and three
months afterwards. And let each child born be
entitled to 12 months’ free medical attention and
nursing. There would be fewer little graves dug,
but there would be more defenders of a White Aus-
tralia.
♦
Sydney Telegraph, the other morqing,
spoke a piece about a place where the white
man finds it very uncomfortable to live., It
mentioned the “black nor’-easter,” and de-
scribed it as “a heavy wind laden with a
sullen clammy coolness, which, while it takes
the scorch out of the sun’s rays,' still allows
the warm impression of it to remain.” It
spoke feelingly of the way this wind affected
the Godforsaken seaport thrown down “into
the oven-like space bitten out of the rnoun-
The Little Boy from Manly to His New
Best Girl.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Old Year’s cheeks are pale, and dull
her hair;
With wistful eyes she passes on her way.
To take her place yoh come, a girl more
fair,
And younger, too, and, possibly, more gay.
I’m waiting for you. ready to caress
And fondle you. Upon the air there floats
The gentle, wave-like lapping of your dress,
The faint, sweet odor of your petticoats.
But though I fain would idle in your arms,
Inhale Love in the perfume of your breast,
I dare not linger, doting on your charms,
For I have work to do that mocks at rest.
When I was locked in amorous embrace
The thought would haunt me, while I played
with you:
Alas! the blooming int’rest grows apace,
And while I sport some loans are falling
due !
While railway lines are waiting to be laid
I cannot woo you with a lover’s sighs ;
While pyramids of debt remain unpaid
’Twere vain to Seek Nirvana in your eyes.
I find no pleasure in your mouth, your chin ;
The fragrance of you is as cloying nard,
While imports from abroad are rolling in,
And while the North, unpeopled, waits its
guard.
How vast the spaces waiting to be filled!
The trade of war’s a thing I’ve yet to learn ;
I’ve guns to forge and ships of steel to build..
Therefore, dear girl, your tempting sweets I
spurn.
The faded lady who just moved away,
For twelve months I have dallied with. I’ll
wipe
My hands of her, and bog in from to-day—
Your coming warns me that the time is
ripe!
VICTORIA.
HARRISON OWEN.


POST
CARDS
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and we will
forward you 12 packets, each containing 6 of
our colored and high art POST CARDS, to
sell for us at 6d. per packet. When you have
sold the cards, return us our 65., and we will
send you for your trouble any present you
may choose from the list of jewellery which
we forward. By continuing the sale of our
cards you can earn a LADY’S OR GENT.’S
SILVER WATCH AND CHAIN, a PHOTO
CAMERA loaded for use, SILVER HAIR
BRUSHES, GOLD RINGS, RABBIT RIFLES,
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS, and other exqui-
site and choice prizes. WE TAKE ALL THE
RISK. You can return the cards if not sold.
We are the largest dealers in post cards in
Australia, and import our jewellery, or we
could not make you this liberal offer.
RECAL POST CARD
IZ6 BOND ST SYDNEY
Cut This Out.
Seasickness.
Positive Remedy for Prevention & Cure.
Take a wineglassful of O.T. neat at time of sail-
ing and whenever you feel unpleasant symptoms ap-
proaching, and you will escape the distressing effects
of seasickness. O.T. is derived from fruits and herbs
having stomachic properties, which impart to the
beverage distinctive virtues for preventing and reliev-
ing the agonising sensations of seasickness. Thou-
sands of people have expressed gratitude for the bene-
ficial properties of O.T. on a sea voyage. Try it
once, and you will be convinced that it makes sea-
travelling pleasant and joyful. When making a sea
trip take a few bottles of O.T. with you.*
&
0
&
These Men are Seeing Life
in the Wrong Way
They should have visited our theatres
and drank in the moving pictures the
after effects are more beneficial.
Crystal Palace, Lyric, Colonial,
Empress SYDIN E Y.
Britannia and Melba MELBOURNE.
WHERE
EVERYBODY
GOES
tain range,” and mentioned sorrowfully that
things were much worse when the sirocco
swept down from the west or north-w T est.
When that happened, the poor wretches
who live there gasp in “a stagnant pool of
hot air,” until the wind changes suddenly
and blows freezingly from the south,
upsetting the natives’ dugouts and chill-
ing the lightly-clad white population.
It was a tragic sort of article, and
the hurried reader felt quite convinced that
the Northern Territory should only be de-
veloped by colored labor, and that the white
man who deliberately settled there deserved
to die promptly and horribly. Then he had
another look to make certain the deadly
place was not the West Cpast of Africa,
and dashed if it wasn’t dear old Sydney,
where the D.T. lives—the same old D.T.
which proves over and over again that it is
impossible for a white newspaper to exag-
gerate the discomforts of the Territory and
the tropics in general!
♦
The report to the N.S.W. Chief Secretary
on the work of the National Association
for the Prevention of Consumption reveals
the alarming fact that 50 per cent, of the
contacts of tubercular patients suffer in some
degree from the White Plague. Such a
statement, given on such an authority, is
making the general public look sideways at
the crowded railway carriage, the packed
tram, the four-berth cabin on shipboard, the
mob at the theatre and picture show, and
quite a lot of other places and things in
which humanity is jambed against humanity
in the name of progress and civilisation.
Lepers can be isolated, ordinary infectious
diseases can be prevented from spreading,
but it seems practically impossible to effec-
tively dodge the consumptive microbe, which
youth and beauty often breathe into the air
Without having the least idea that they are
scattering death. Medical inspection of the
whole population would do much to trace
and localise the disease, but the grand cure
for the evil is more air, more sunshine, and
better conditions of work and life. Until
the community seriously makes up its mind
to suppress the slum landlord and pursue
the whole congestion policy with an axe,
there can be no finality to the horrible busi-
ness.
“Vandorian’s” postscript:—
The M'Ewen-Toohey wedding, referred to in my
letter this week, duly happened at St. Mary’s
Cathedral. The bride was given away by her
brother, Mr. .7. T. Toohey, and the bride’s mother,
who was present at the ceremony, received the
guests at Hill’s Cafe. This indicates a pleasant
change in the arrangements.
The N.S.W. Commission to inquire into
food supplies and prices has presented the
McGowen Government with an interesting
report on the meat supply. It stigmatised
the present abattoirs at Glebe Island as a
disgrace to the capital—which is true. It
spoke kindly of the Homebush Government-
built butchery, but pointed out that it was
incomplete without a distribution house in
the city. Which is also true. But the best
thing in the report is an urgent recom-
mendation to closely follow the operations
of Swift and Co., of Chicago and the Beef
Trust. Attorney-General Holman says the
States have ample powers to suppress
trusts; so, presumably, Holman’s under-
study, Hall, is getting his chopper and block
ready. If he isn’t, and the Trust gets to
work, then, in view of the Commission’s
warning and Holman’s statement, some un-
pleasant suspicions will presently attach to
somebody.
To carry out the crack-brained scheme of
joining North and South with a curly line
running through the backblocks of N.S.W.
and Queensland, it was necessary to rush
things and get a big section under construc-
tion at once. The gang that barracked for
the longest-way-round folly failed to do that;
and as time went on the utter futility of the
scheme began to strike the dullest intellect.
Naturally, the idea then just faded out, and,
last week, the announcement that the line
from Port Augusta to Darwin would be built
along the shortest route evoked neither hos-
tile demonstration nor applause. It had
come to be looked upon as the natural thing;
it was just as though Minister Thomas had
announced that the sun would rise to-morrow
morning. The rising of the sun is a most
important event, but nobody gets up early
to cheer about it.
The audacity of Hatter Storey, M.L.A.,
would leave politics in N. S. Wales breath-
less occasionally if he were taken seriously.
Just now he is battling with acting-leader
of the Opposition Wood —politically and
pathetically licking the hand that lashed
him —to win the Blayney (N.S.W.) seat for
Liberalism. The lashing was administered
in November, 1910, and the squirming
Storey described it as “a dastardly and
cowardly attack,” and “a scandal to Par-
liamentary government.” Also, he called
Wood “a political adventurer,” and implored
Wade to stop tactics which were “bring-
ing the party into disrepute.” Storey
whined that he did his duty to everybody,
to which the cold, calculating Wade replied :
“Not to your electors.” But, now, nothing
is too good for Wade and the party of which
Storey thought so little not long ago that
he abandoned it.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Faust.” _
Her Majesty’s “Florodora.
Palace. . ....... “The Parish Priest. )(
Adelphi ' .. “The Monk and the Woman.
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
National Amphitheatre Brennan’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric I . .
Colonial 1- Continuous Pictures.
Crystal Palace. .. ... Continuous Pictures, etc.
Glaciarium 1 best’s Pictures.
Olympia )
Eden Gardens, Manly.. The Dandies.
Cricket Ground Six Days’ Cycle Rnce.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Puss in Boots.” [Turning.”
Princess’s “The Girl Who Took the Wrong
K INi} > 8 “ The Girl of the Never-Never.”
royal “Antony and Cleopatra.”
Opera House Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric, Pruhran Photo Plays.
Majestic. Amalgamated Pictures.
Arcadia, St. Kilda .... The Dandies.
Esplanade, St. Kilda .. Smart, Set Entertainers.
♦
It will be a remarkable thing if the sophis-
ticated theatre-goers of Sydney are attracted
particularly by “Faust,” the latest Theatre
Royal production. It belongs to a waybhek
epoch when people wept, in all good faith,
over “The Sorrows of Werther,” and be-
lieved in a material Hell and a personal
Devil. There are many reasons why it might
well have been left undisturbed. The tendency
of the present generation of playgoer is to
scoff at the things which give “Faust” what-
ever dramatic value it possesses. They are not
taken seriously even in a show which aims
almost as much at fantasy as it does at
melodrama. Belial is a painfully unconvinc-
ing variety of stage villain, more especially
when, as at the Royal, his infamies are per-
formed without so much as a decent cloud
or two of music to veil their futility. We
think of
The strongest and the fiercest Spirit
That fought in Heaven.
and we get a posturing braggart, in a banal
fancy costume, who displays the mischiev-
ousness of an ape and the wit of a modern
low-comedian or State politician. The
spectacle of the Prince of Darkness leaping
with anguish at the impact of a shower of
holy water, or yelping miserably because he
has accidentally touched a prayer-book, is
not so much funny as it is tragic. It sug-
gests Napoleon being kicked out of A bar, or
Cleopatra receiving a writ for an overdue
asp-food account, or Hannibal falling over a
dog. Mephisto’s elaborate baiting of the
citizens of Nuremburg is not calculated to
produce sentiments of awe. For the writer’s
part, it merely bored him, and caused him
to brood, with a sort of idiotic hopefulness,
on the fact that there must be dashed little
doing in Perdition, after all, if its chief
official can squander the fleeting hours of
eternity in this profitless fashion.
"FAUST, "AT SYDNEY
ROYAL.
“A Devil with the Givis."
Jerrold Robertshaw as
Mephisto disturbing
the ladies.
And then there is old Dr. Faustus, the
perfect embodiment of so much that was
unconsciously hilarious in the Middle Ages.
In the days when the poet Melchior was
engaged singing Maximilian’s praises, towns
like Nuremburg were literally creeping with
elderly impostors or fools of this sort. Every
other street contained its profusely-whisk-
ered ancient who, in a room with a skull, a
dead owl, and various cabalistic signs (in-
dicative of the habit of Profound Thought),
hunted tirelessly for the Elixir of Life.
From time to time these misguided old per-
sons swallowed potions composed of pow-
dered bats’ eyes, the teeth of a nine-days-
dead rat, the hair of the dog that had last
bitten them, and other ingredients. Nothing
ever happened, if history is to be believed ;
not even a death (the mediaeval sage having
a useful digestive outfit), and after a period
of stupefaction and bad language, the de-
feated one resumed his experiments. For
misdirected energy the Crusaders —who, at
least, got healthy exercise out of their life’s
work—were nothing to him. On last Thurs-
day night, when the Theatre Royal Faustus
had absorbed the usual potion—with the
customary absence of result —he enragedly
flung the empty goblet into the street out-
side. This was a rank anachronism. It is
notorious that the Civic Fathers of the
period severely discountenanced such demon-
strations. Had they not done so the cease-
less rain of hard-ware from the apartments
of baffled and exasperated sages would have
been injurious to the public health and
welfare. , *
* *
In brief, “Faust,” regarded as a drama, is
ludicrous, and dull, and altogether im-
possible. As a pantomime, however, it has
its good points. The ballets are well done
and the dressing is exquisite. Most of the
scenery is unimpeachable, though the set-
piece depicting the roofs of Nuremburg gave
one scant idea, on the first night, of the
architectural beauties of the place, or ot the
“blue Franconian Mountains’ in the dis-
tance, or, indeed, of anything in particular
barring an assortment of unstable cardboard
mansions. The scene on the Brocken is
effective, and the dancing of the condemned
souls beyond reproach.
* * *
Miss Beatrice Terry,_ as Marguerite, is
charming and graceful in her lighter mom-
ents. She was less impressive the other
night in the death scene, which she rather
overplayed. Miss Susie Vaughan is an alto-
gether satisfactory and diverting Martha.
Jerrold Robertshaw, who wrestles with the
role of Mephisto, may be said to succeed in
as far as it is in the power of human actor
to do so. And the same applies, more or
less, to Eardley Turner (Dr. Faust us). Eric
Maxon looks handsome, and acts attrac-
tively as Marguerite’s lover. James Athol-
wood, Boyd Irvine and Leonard Willey are
others who do sound work.
** * *
From the standpoint of mere sordid sen-
sationalism this paper would like to be able
to state that Her Majesty’s, Sydney, had
been blown to atoms by. dynamitard members
of the Actors’ Association, or turned into a
cathedral, or taken over by a rival Theatri-
cal Trust whose policy was to stage none
but shows that were less than (say) 10
years old. Being wedded to truth, it
remarks, in a tired sort of way, that “Floro-
dora” is still going strong at the Pitt-street
house, and. judging by the smile of the box
office, is likely to continue in that course for
weeks.
v 5 r
The artistic perfection of Julius Knight's
production remains the chief note in “Mile-
stones” at Sydney Criterion. Julius must
now be recognised as important in this
lessening degree: (1) Producer; (2) Cha-
racter Actor; (3) Calves. The cinema-
tographic compression of 52 years into three
short films remains for the big audiences
the chief charm of this quaint, slight comedy.
It is human life tabloided into three pleas-
ant-tasting pills. And the race has a tre-
mendous liking for pills.
** * *
The professional musicians of Sydney
struck a happy idea, or the happy idea struck
them, when they thought of giving an open-
air concert at the Sydney Cricket Ground
on Christmas Eve. It was just the sort of
show r that deserved to be a success, and it
was. Hot indoors, a breeze cooled things
outside; and, to give the performers a mod-
ern stage setting, a broad-faced moon got up
out of her bed in the ocean, behind some fir
trees. The Harmonic Society sang various
things, including (with orchestral accom-
paniment) Handel’s Hallelujah Chorus, and
the Professional Musicians provided some
marches, some Christmas Carols, and
Tschaikowsky’s big “1812” grand overture
solenelle, in which the fine chime of bells
provided for the finale was heard to inartis-
tic disadavantage. But the “draw” of the
evening was the Grand Patriotic Musical
Tableaux —“The British Army Quadrille.”
The Cricket Ground sprang suddenly into a
blaze of ringed light. The Professional
Musicians sat at home in England (on the
grandstand) and plong-plonged on various
instruments about the greatness of the Em-
pire, interspersed with cornet remarks from
various crypts. Then warriors, home-re-
turning, headed by red, green, blue, violet and
yellow flares, came weirdly out of the dark-
ness, playing patriotic airs, from every quar-
ter of the compass, the while, bombs and
multi-colored rockets jubilantly split the
welkin and scattered sparks about the purple
empyrean. The bands which represented
the successfully campaigning troops hailed
from Afghanistan (Rozelle), the Straits
Settlements (Waverley), the Punjab
(Manly), Nepal (the Kilties) and Burma
(Burwood Cadets). It was *» glorious vic-
tory.
** * *
“The Monk and the Woman” are now
carrying on at the Adelphi (Sydney) under
the official displeasure of Holy Church.
Zola tack!. J much the same question in
“Abbe Mouret’s Transgression.” The girl
in that case conveniently died, the monk
went on with his usual job, and another rev-
erend brother had one ear sawn off and
thrown into a boneyard by an infuriated
parishioner. Of course. Marlow’s show
couldn’t end that way. In these days even
supers have a prejudice against their ears
being razed ; probably the practice is against
the rules of their union.
** * *
The Bulletin’s own weather-prophet
reports that the sultry conditions of the past
few days were probably due to Claire Ro-
maine’s newest lot of songs at the Tivoli.
Florence Baines, “fat as ever,” who is
alleged to have made London laugh, didn’t
take long to do the same for Sydney; the
whole house was in five minutes on the most
friendly terms with the persuasive Lan-
cashire lass. Alexander Prince, the con-
certina player, who doesn’t need an intro-
duction, scored another big hit. The other
newcomers on Saturday’s bill were Charles
Zoli, Borneo Gardiner and Miss Margo,
but none of them are strangers here. Chief
among the also-rans were the Beni Zoug-
Zougs, Thomas Bentley and the keltons, all
of them attractive features of a programme
which doesn’t rise to Kosciuskan heights
anywhere, but nowhere is as flat as Yass-
berra or yesterday’s beer.
A Bulletin artist goes to the Panto, at Her
Majesty's (Melb.) during the “festive ” season.
At the Palace (which, by the way, is
threatened by the demolisher’s axe in the
not distant future, to make way for hotel
expansion), Allen Doone has been earning
bread and champagne with “The Wearing of
the Green.” If there’s ivir an Irish bhoy
and colleen in Sydney that have not yet seen
the show, let them remember that Friday will
be their last chance. “The Parish Priest
will get work on Saturday at the theatre.
**:!=*
Sydney picture shows lately have had a
busy time, and most of them have risen to
the" occasion. The Kinemacoloiy made its
appearance in Sydney at Spencer’s Lyceum.
The films chosen for the debut showed the
Delhi Durbar (perhaps the best test that
the new process could have been put to),
several floral bouquets waving in a breeze,
Miss Smith’s Solent swim, and a fire scene. In
each case better results could not have been
wished for. At the Crystal Palace the
moving-picture camera’s first visit to Kos-
ciusko provided some excellent snow scenes,
as well as a good series of skating and
snow-sport pictures. “The Tribal Law,” at
the same theatre, and another of the never-
ending Mexican-Indian pictures, provided
plenty of excitement for those who like their
pleasures devilled. Of the other J. D. Wil-
liams pictures, “The Plot and Counter-
plot,” at the Lyric, a story of the ways of
English visitors to Italy, was a good best.
* * * *
Pedrini and Toby are the stars of the
moment at the National Amphitheatre.
Pedrini is a distinguished foot equilibrist,
Toby one of the most notable baboons of his
time. No admirer of celebrities should miss
an evening with this prominent brace of
visitors. Buffalo Vernon, a lariat special-
ist; Jules Garrison and his Homan maids;
La France, and Fred Curran account for a
good deal of the remaining part of the bill.
* * * *
From the moment when Philo and Deme-
trius (bursting into view with their backs
to the orchestra) come walking up the grand
staircase from the bowels of the stage, to the
final appearance of her Egyptian Majesty
seated dead in the centre of a dissolving
view, the Asche production of “Antony'and
Cleopatra,” at Melbourne Royal, is a feast
of color and an unbroken series of memor-
able impressions. Scene paintings, by Jos-
eph Darker, dressing, grouping, lighting and
all the works of Asche’s managerial art go
to make pictures which convince. On reflec-
tion, one remembers that the lights were
sometimes too glaring, and the shadows too
sombre in the palace of the great Queen of
Cuddle; but the first impression has been
made long before criticism is brought to
bear upon it. The best theatrical effects of
“Kismet” are bettered in “Antony and Cleo-
patra.” The show is a noble example of
how to do a big thing thoroughly. William,
or Francis, who wrote the play in 38 scenes,
never imagined it being so effectively potted
into 12. The burden of Baconspeare’s obli-
gation to posterity was already as much as
his disputed identity could carry, and this
Ascheian production is the last straw that
breaks his back. Considered as a factor in
the artistic success, Baconspeare finishes
nowhere. He is among the Also Ran.


&
>.v# m
fv
L
iRSfc’SJ
/4
■«a
/ /
O'/A
t-'\
i 11
39
53331 ; -ifllHflEP^
SCHWEPPES’
Lime Juice Cordial
made exclusively from Montserrat Lime Fruit
Juice, by special arrangement with the
proprietors of Montserrat. Montserrat Lime
Fruit Juice is a most refreshing and thirst-
quenching drink. It is soft and palatable to
the palate, so unlike all other Lime Juice.
SCHWEPPES LIMITED,
Purveyors to His Majesty the Kins*
Keep it
On Hand
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS.
Insure
with the
♦
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
FIRE ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
Lowest Rates Charged.
£>raoae No. -23 S General.
With the exception of a room in Caesar’s
house, where Antony comes and apologises
to his partners for his inattention to busi-
ness, all the scenes of this condensed trag-
edy are laid in Egypt. They mostly show
Cleopatra holding the englamored Tony in
her toils, or counting the hours of his ab-
sence from her grip, or pommelling the slave
messenger who states that another woman
has been making goo-vn o eyes at the object
of her hug. Cleopatra and Antony are the
ruling figures ; nevertheless the little gather-
ing of noble Romans in Cmsar’s room, which
is only a shallow apartment, is one of the
most picturesque scenes in the play. There
are no weak incidents, nor any feeble per-
formers. The co. is always acting within
its resources. For such a strong actor as
Caleb Porter there is nothing to do but to
wear a small tin goatee-case on the tip of his
chin and deliver soothsayings from time to
time. Grimwood is quite happy in the de-
clamatory part of Enobarbus; the only flaw
in Warlock’s rendering unto Caesar of the
lines that are Caesar’s is an occasional excess
of loudness; and the gentle exponents of
Cleopatra’s girl-attendants might have
walked out of a fresco picture. Oscar
Asche, it goes without saying, is not the
ideal Antony by long chalks. He was a per-
suasive Count Hannibal, a very real Othello
and a sufficiently probable Petruchio; but
his saturnine, burly Antony has nothing much
of the sanguine, debonair Roman lady-
killer about him. As a masterful, magnetic
Asche he carries the character off, all the
same, and as the recipient of Miss Lily
Brayton’s warm, red-wigged endearments, he
is palpably the right artist in the proper
place. The fierce lights that beat upon
Cleopatra’s amorousness are very trying to
her personal beauty, but the character of
the immortal canoodler gives Miss Brayton
the best chance she has had in Australia to
rise to a tragic height, and seat herself com-
fortably on the summit. Her long last scene,
the gloom whereof is relieved for a few min-
utes by the arrival of a clown (R. F. Anson)
with the asp, is a powerful piece of acting.
** * ❖
It used to be said of the annual William-
sonian panto., which starts in Melbourne at
Christmas and gets a second wind in Syd-
ney at Eastertime, that it catered rather for
baldhood than childhood. Some of the
pantos, of the past had a superfluity of
bounding ballet and an excess of mere splen-
dor. “Puss in Boots,” the latest hotch-potch
of its kind, is only moderately magnificent
and very mildly terpsichorean. At the out-
set the crowded entertainment ran from 7.30
to the verge of midnight. Even then the
performance had been thinned of sundry
items -which appeared in the dress rehearsal.
There is more matter than method in this
midsummer madness; and, seemingly, the
managerial pruning knife must have com-
mitted several slips in the work of abbrevia-
tion. The weapon has left uncut some of
the stuff that ought to have been sliced out,
and has cut some of the things that might
have been spared, and there is still a lot or
scope for further alterations. Meanwhile,
the panto, is doing the usual enormous busi-
ness eight times a week.
*** * -
As regards fairy-tale and infantile inte-
rest “Puss in Boots” is almost too weak for
words. The she-boy offspring of the he-
Dame is driven from home with a cat that
eventually gets a pair of magic boots from
an unimpressive Fairy Queen, and thereby
achieves rank and fortune for his female
master, who does nothing heroic on her own
account. For the rest, there are the inevi-
table stonebroke King who marries the
Dame, and the Princess who marries the he-
boy, and a number of irrelevant characters
who make no pretence of accounting for their
occurrence. Fortunately, the Boy apd t e
Oat are bright and forcible representatives
of the plot—for even a panto, radiates from
its bit of plot. Miss Violet Loraine has a
merry eye, a useful singing voice, a tan
figure that is all quality, and vim enough to
make a passable ditty go for twice its worth.
The performance is never flabby when she is
on the stage, which remark applies to O. K.
Lennon in his capital cat impersonation.
P. Powell, the Dame of last year s panto is
humorous for the most part as the undulj
frequent King, whereas George Millers
Dame is rarely more than quaint °r less than
stodgy. A new lady, Miss Alice Russon, is
a strikingly unimportant Princess. The -
Jenious dancing novelties introduced by
Fred Leslie and Ivy Schilling are heavier
than was expected. Rupert Da ”tlL g duet
valuable assistance to Miller in a P att er duet
that isn’t new; a clown turn with P erf °™
ing dogs is clever ; and a burlesque acrobatic
turn is screamingly funny in lt; s P
ters, after being tedious in the > ntr °J J ° k tlo “ o
The dancing and marching kr „ eak has
records, nor damage any. Coleman .
painted some sweetly rural aa^ ic tk
chorus which includes a few male voice. ,
comes ’out strong on one or two occasions.
** * *
“The Girl of the Never Never,” , staged for
the first time at Melbourne King s on Box-
ing Night, represents Jo Smiths earnest
endeavor to shape an Australian drama on
reasonable lines, whilst confining p lanees
to the Empty North. The dialogue rang .
from good to middling, the “sensation”
scene in.the third act has a touch of honest
novelty in it, and the conventional offspring
of melodrama who assemble in the Rose
River Cove district, Gulf of Carpentaria,
are consistently human in their conduct,
lhe one false note in the concerto is uttered
by an ex-corporal who meditates the wiping-
out of his former colonel’s giddy wife, and
brings a curtain down on a forced situation.
Subsequently, the giddy lady turns out to be
a penitent motherly person, after which the
corporal forswears his oath of vengeance,
and calms down. The hero’s discovery of
gold galore on the bank of the Strangways
River, or thereabouts, promises a boom in
Territory settlement, and everything in the
garden is lovely when the Girl of the Never
Never gets united to her Jack.
Miss Duggan, several degrees quieter and
slimmer than of old, is a reasonable explana-
tion of Rutland Beckett’s desperate rivalry of
the. heroic Mackay. Miss Olive Wilton is an
active and intelligent black maiden; Charles
Brown roams around genially in the guise of
an old sea captain; Helen Fergus is the re-
pentant matron with a long, lean second
husband in attendance; Max Clifton puts in
some good work as the hysterical corporal ;
and there are others. The feeblest of the
others are Fanny Erris, as a comedy-relief
party, and J. H. Nunn, who figures as a
“Cattle King,” and is a dreadfully dull
grazier. Anderson’s scenic artist has spread
many pounds of paint on a careful produc-
tion of this latest Australian play.
# *
The Girl Took the Wrong Turning at
Melbourne Princess’s on Boxing Night; and
the usual undiscriminating audience watched
the lady’s progress without troubling to con-
jecture upon the ultimate end of the jour-
ney. Anybody with any sort of education in
Marlowdrama could safely prophesy that
Sophie, after a period of late nights and
champagne, intersnersed with intemperate
ententes with giddy young men, would re-
turn softened and repentant to her sailor,
and sample ’ome comforts with a hubby and
kids. No other ending could be decently ex-
pected when the industry of the mariner in
chasing Soph over London had to be re-
warded in the good old way. To come to the
acting is practically to come to Hugh Buck-
ler, who as the miscreant, Harcourt, never
seems to enjoy himself. His conversation
always lacks the essential thrust, and his
visage is never embroidered by a devilish
smile. Bar Hilliard Vox, who is a well-
“MILESTONESAT SYDNEY
CRITERION.
The Knight and the Crinoline (1860). Rose
Sibley ( Eily Maly on) is proposed to in the good
old-fashioned way by John Rhead (Julius
Knight).
spoken Jack Fenton, and J. P. O’Neill, who
represents the peripatetic agony, William
Slater, none of the others do anything in
particular. P. V. Scully perhaps, stands out
because as Richard Fenton he. is a distin-
guished fiasco; while Miss Jennie Pollock is
also eminent because she accentuates the
importance of her dressmaker. The scenery,
however, is much better than before, but
the comic relief isn’t. Indeed, on Boxing
Night it reached such a degree of poorness
that it seemed almost impossible for it to
get worse.
* *
On Boxing Night and again on Saturdaj
the moving films and colored slides of Ire-
land To-dav” were revealed to chock-a-block
multitudes‘at Melbourne Town Hall, what
time the mob that had been turned away
from the doors mingled their sighs in the
vestibule. Evidently the All Ir ' s j. s J°w
from Dublin, beginning with Come Back to
Erin” and ending with Rory O More in
colors, has struck the Home Rule sentiment
at an opportune moment. It is comprehen-
sively Irish, and interestingly educational.
He * * *
The notable happenings at Melbourne
Opera House last Saturday were the' ret £ rn
of Nella Webb, with new songs, and the first
appearance there of De Biere, the man of
mystery, after his long and profitable Sydney
season.
** * *
At Melbourne Olympia last week Spen-
cer’s screen was wealthy with the swords
and uniforms pertaining to the story of
“The Midnight Wedding.” This subject is
Spencer’s own version of the Walter Howard
drama, and furnishes all the ingredients of
the yarn in a pictorial salad. The narrative
of the “Higher Mercy,” in which Providence
and President Lincoln figure with equal im-
portance, was an exciting production describ-
ing how the youth who ran away lived to die
unpleasantly another day. “The Poacher’s
Pardon” was also a very passable narra-
tion, and “The Wild Man,” a comic effusion,
had the saving grace of ingenuity.
Last Saturday the supporters of Mel-
bourne Majestic were entertained by a few
yards of “The Veiled Prophet,” the mostly
Arabian story of Zelica and Azim, who
reached the pale Haven of Matrimony after
much struggling against Kismet. This was
the best of the Majestic offerings, though
some of the others were worth mentioning.
“Uncle Mun and the Minister,” e.g., was a
pleasant comedy, and “The Laird’s Daugh-
ter.” in which all the people are called either
McDonald or McGregor, was as nppetisingly
Scawtch as a feed of haggis.
** * *
“Jean Sibi” on a silent show: —
The Fine Arts Society’s exhibition, at the Centreway
(Melbourne), gives a chance to a number of painters
to display their works and wares. Ambrose Patter-
son hangs a sextet containing forests and purple
vistas and clouds streaming like banners across the
sky. “Mount Donna Buang’’ seems the best in the
group, but present writer can pretend no affection
for the “Big Gums” subject, with the foliage re-
sembling a Christmas-tree. There is an interesting
bunch of early Streetons, painted at a period when
the artist had so much soul that he hadn’t any room
for imagination. For the most part they are self-
conscious efforts, very different from the present-day
mixtures of daintiness and realism that make this
artist a cross between a Corot and a cinematograph.
John Mather has something conventional to show;
Sid Long arrests you with a lagoon; and Howard
Ashton suspends four midget scenes that might have
been the work of a tireless gnat. Jack Sommers’s
half-dozen trifles are .iust pretty excursions into the
immaterial; Hardy Wilson’s “Venetian Twilight”
looks like a mere bloke’s intuition about a dreary
time of day; Hans Heysen’s quartette of illus-
trated gum-trees are enveloped in the S. Australian’s
own particular brand of artistic gloom ; and E. Gruner
has put bits of Sydney, the Nepean River and Eliza-
beth' Bay into nice, effective frames. And there
are others —David Davies’s graceful “Silver and
Grey,” to mention one. Also, there is a black and
white department, in which Lionel Lindsay has most
to say, and says it with his usual strict attention to
business.
Among Adelaide shows, the
Dandies have the best of it in the
hot weather. Led by Mr. and Mrs.
Dampier and George Morgan, the
little team in the Exhibition Gar-
den has built up a solid popularity.
The Royal put up Walter Bentley
and some Passion Play pictures on
Christmas night. The Hugo Min-
strels, who enjoy their own fun so
much, have moved on to Brisbane,
and an Anderson co. has come in
with the aged but still vigorous
“Span of Life.” (Electric fans
now everywhere in this house.)
The King’s stars Villiers, of the
magical turn; Jack Straw; and
the veteran John Fuller. The
Tivoli is going to take a summer
vacation, and Wondergraph (out
of doors now) shows a motor-
smash per film, while West’s rely on some
Delhi scenes and a tragedy of the youthful
Nero.
“Theorbo”: Quinlan brought to Australia the score
of Charpentier’s brilliant “Louise,” which will be
the opening attraction of the next visit. On the
passage to England the opera was studied, and the
co. acted it with great eclat in Manchester only 10
days after landing. The plot is something like that
of “La Boheme,” with wafts from “The Ragpicker
of Paris,” “Bertha the Sewing Machine Girl,” and
“Diana of Dobson’s.” Louise is a machinist, who
develops into Society. The music abounds in odd
ideas, such as Puccini has made fashionable; among
them is a chorus of girls with whirring sewing
machines —evidently suggested by Wagner’s Spinning
Chorus, in “The Flying Dutchmen.”
“The Private Secretary,” revived in London just
after the death of Penley, whose name was princi-
pally associated with it, brought out of retirement
Frank Thornton, who played the part all over Aus-
tralia.
“Constant Writer”: More than one relative of the
present Margaret at Sydney Royal has impersonated
Faust’s best girl. Everyone knows that Aunt Ellen
Terry played the part with Irving. Not so many are
aware that Aunt Marion (regarded by some as the
most gifted of the Terrys,” and there have been a
good many of them on the stage during the last cen-
tury or two) was Gretchen, alias Margaret, in W. S.
Gilbert’s adaptation of the Faust legend. Gilbert
dedicated the library edition of his “Gretchen
(1879) to Marion Terry, for whose art he had much
admiration. He also made plain his belief that the
play would have done well only for some funny work
which resulted in Lord Somebody-or-other, at that
time lessee of London Olympic, resolving to close
down on the drama before it had had a fair run.
“Priscilla Prink” : In 1888, that lately dead jour-
nalist and critic, Edward Ellis, published a theatrical
booklet, entitled “Pets of the Public.” These are
the 25 actresses he selected as being the favorites of
the Australian theatres of about a quarter of a centurv
ago, placed in the same order as Ellis fixed them:
Essie Jenyns, Marion Hood, Lily Dampier, Maggie
Moore, Nellie Farren, Nellie Stewart, Ida Osborne,
Letty Lind, Myra Kemble, Minnie Palmer, Kate
Bishop, Roland Watts-Phillips, Pattie Browne, Carrie
Swain, Alice Barnett, Nina Boucicault, Leonora
Braham, Mrs. George Rignold, Jenny Watt-Tanner,
Mrs Brough, Isabel Morris, Lilian Gillmore, Mrs.
Bland Holt, Sylvia Grey and Agnes Thomas. Wonder
where they all are now ?
The London chorus girls have formed a union.
We mean a trade union. It already has a member-
ship of nearly 1000.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“0.K.”: George Rignold’s last appearance on the
stage was at Melbourne Royal in “The Bondman”
in 1907. The performance was remarkable not so
much for its picturesque display of all the theatrical
effect whereof the old actor was a past master, as for
its air of manly vigor. Rignold went through his
arduous part with a palsied shaking of the head
which forbade one to keep the opera-glasses on him,
yet he never, “fluffed” his lines or missed a detail.
And he was keen as ever to adopt any suggestion
which appealed to his artistic sense. In the open-
ing performances the second act closed with an anti-
climax. Rignold, whose girl (Miss Ross) had been
coerced into jilting him in favor of brother Max
Maxwell, knelt on the stage and solemnly cursed his
luck and his relative, preparatory to tearing- up a
letter and walking moodily down-stage as the cur-
tain fell. Obviously these two scenes—rage fol-
lowed by despair—were misplaced from a melodra-
matic point of view; and “The Bondman” was
melodrama. So I suggested to Phil Stuart that he
should ask Rignold what he thought of the idea of
transposing the quiet letter-tearing incident and the
furious curse, so that he could get a stronger “cur-
tain.” An effective tag to the curse, I suggested,
would be “God, give me my revenge!” “revenge”
being a capital word to bring down a curtain on.
Stuart passed the idea to his former boss, and Rig-
nold adopted it right away, with improved results.
The second act closed with a bang, instead of a
moan, and in subsequent revivals, when Styan played
Rignold’s part, the cry of “God, give me my re-
venge!” was the cue for the rag to be unfurled.
Now, I’m thinking that the same idea offered in a
casual way to the average star mummer would have
been resented with a snort. You can’t persuade the
ordinary blue-chinned pro. who rules the roost that a
non-pro. (least of all a newspaper man) can stage-
manage him in the smallest detail. But Rignold
was not an average leading man. He was a brain)
artist who for the best part of his long life on the
boards had been running his own show, teaching
actors what to do and picking up hints for his own
instruction.
“Eryander”: My only appearance upon any stage
was made under the auspices of recently-dead George
Rignold. It was a good many years ago ; the play
was “Siberia”; and, as one of the noble army of
“supers,” I had, for the staggering remuneration of
two shillings per noctem, to be successively a street-
rioter, a Tommy Atkins “of the guard,” a convict-
miner, and a seaman. It was in my nautical
capacity that I came into personal contact with
genial but autocratic George. At the first rehearsal,
we two-bobbers were paraded before the great man
that he might select a “quartermaster” to keep the
gangway of the stage ship. “Why,” said Rignold,
indicating me, “here’s the very fellow ! I beg your
pardon,” he added instantly. Then, turning .to the
super-master: “This gentleman will do capitally.”
Something in my face had told him that I didn’t
think even my princely salary should buy discourtesy.
A couple of years later, when I was in more pros-
perous circumstances, I was introduced to Rignold,
“I remember vour face perfectly,” he said, “but for
the life of me I can’t place you. I recalled our
meeting. “Why, yes,” he said, “I remember that as
if it were yesterday. You were like the Ancient
Mariner —you ‘held me with your glittering eye.’”
Always afterwards, when we chanced to meet, his
greeting was, “Why, here’s the very fellow !
In the last act of a new play just produced in
London, “The Keepers of the Garden,” all the per-
formers talk and walk about under umbrellas, for it
is supposed to be raining. But as the rain can
neither be seen nor heard, the device is not effective,
and it is not likely to be copied by any other dra-
matist. There is only one really good umbrella play
.“Paul Pry,” associated in the memories of old
Australian theatre-goers with George Coppin. In
this character Coppin’s catch phrase, “I hope I don t
intrude, but I forgot my umbrella,’ passed into
street slang and enjoyed a long career. The piece
was revived many times and always with success.
Coppin was in the habit of supplementing its per-
formance with a topical speech, which was some-
times witty and amusing. During the last act he
would as if by accident leave the brolly in the
vicinity of the footlights. Then, after the final fall
of the curtain, he would come in front, recognise
it, grab it, exclaim: “I hope I don’t intrude, but 1
forgot my umbrella,” and then start talking abou
the weather or Fitzgibbon or the Sandndge lagoon
or the Reilly-street drain, or whatever other old sub-
ject was uppermost in the public mind.
Every November 18 Van Biene, the actor-musician
whose experiences in Australia were not altogethei
pleasant, plays his ’cello in the streets of London
and gives the coppers to charitable institutions. It
was on November 18, many years ago, when Van
Biene was suffering biting poverty, that an Italian
gentleman stopped to listen while he was playing his
'cello outside a pub. “Come round to Covent Gar-
den to-morrow,” said the Italian; I think I can
find you a better engagement than this. It was Sir
Michael Costa, the conductor of the opera. In grati
tude for the rescue, Van Biene goes back to his early
street-life every November 18, and plays all day for
the benefit of charities.
“C Ockney”: I see no mention in “Melb.’s” inter-
esting notes on “Antony and Cleopatra (B.
26/12/’l2), of the appearance of Mrs. Langtry in the
part of Antony’s old charmer. It were best perhaps
forgot. “The Jersey Lily” produced the piece (and
a very costly production it proved) at the London
Princess’s (Wilson Barrett’s old home) in the days
of my youth. The public didn’t exactly rush to see
her, though the beauty was a bit of a draw m those
times The Antony of the cast was Charles Coghlan,
an erratic but brainy actor—splendid when he liked.
He evidently didn’t like just then. So it was a case
of Antony' wouldn’t and Cleopatra couldn t, and
naturally Success wasn’t.
“Monkbarns”: Faust was a real man and amaz-
ingly modern —as recent as the earlier part of the
sixteenth century. He was a similar quack to that
Joe Balsamo, or Cagliostro, who flourished, like
Mesmer, shortly before the French Revolution. laust
was even more of a worthless, ignorant rogue. In
that superstitious age he managed to impress the
public that he was sold to Lucifer. The tradition
was that the Devil wrung his neck at last. German
legends gathered round him in an unprecedented
manner, especially through Luther having denounced
him; and this puppet-show stuff is the basis of all
the plays, from Marlowe’s onward.
(Continued on page 36.)
THE ENVIOUS MOURNER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In the hustle to secure the most favorable places,
there was an unseemly scramble over the adjoining
graves. —-Report of the late George Rignold’t funeral.
And were there any round his bier
Who, seeing, shed a furtive tear,
And murmured, “On the graves they tread !
They will not go
To my poor show —
He draws them still, though he is dead!”
N.S.W.
CURTAIN.


Grey Washing Flannel Suits
For 30 1-
Comfortable, easy-fitting, Ready-to-wear Grey washing
Flannel two-piece Suits. All shades of Grey—in plain,
medium and light, also in medium dark grey grounds with
fancy stripes. The ideal Suit for Summer Country wear,
for lounge, tennis, boating and general sporting wear. An
excellently cut suit —well-made Coat, unlined, with patch
pockets; moveable buttons and vent at back. The materials
are soap-and-water shrunk, and, if washed in hot soapy
water will not shrink again. (Do not boil.) All
sizes 30/-
DAVID JONES PAY CARRIAGE.
DAVID JONES LTD.,
OPP. Q. P. 0., SYDNEY.
n,
ml
mu
G
nVu»»*.
»»
mobiloil
gives you a grade for each type of^otor o^^^ o '’^' 1
shown in our complete recommendations. Mailed on request
Vacuum Oil Co. Ptv. Ltd
New Zealand Chambers, George St., Sydney.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
ECONOMICAL.
MRS. BLINK : “ Your husband likes you in those
clinging gowns?”
MRS. WINK: “Yes; he likes them to cling for
about three years."
The vague proposal to grade and mark
meat for local consumption has something
sound about it. At present the very best
Australian meat goes to feed the inhabitants
of distant countries, and as far as the local
dealer and butcher can arrange it the local
public gets the culls and the fag ends. This
isn’t because the foreigner has poorer teeth
or worse digestion; it is because the for-
eigner can buy somebody else’s dead cow if
he doesn’t like the look of ours, while we
can’t buy anybody else’s. When the local
butcher is compelled to declare the class of
meat he is selling, he will shrink with his
native modesty from offering the inferior
article at the top price. In fact, a good
many of him will avoid the inferior article
as if it were snake-bite or Tophet, and the
local John Smith wall thus get a decent joint
for his Sunday dinner in return for the de-
cent price he pays.
“Mai RSve”: Whenever I am in search of
unconscious humor, not to mention cant and
Heap-like snuffle, I turn confidently to one
of the sectarian sheets. A particularly sate
draw is the Sydney Watchman. Its Christ-
mas-issue article (on the text, Peace on
Earth, Goodwill towards Men j was as edi-
fying an effort as I have struck. Some ex-
tracts: —
Once more the Christmas season is upon us, and
with it come many and varied thoughts, for what a
host of meanings that word “Christmas conveys.
What a glad and peaceful season it is ! How many
little quarrels are made up ! How many offences par-
doned! How much peace is given on this gladdest,
brightest, and best of days! “Peace on earth, good-
will towards men.”
How strong is the spirit of Christianity to thus
shed an influence over all. Is not peace one of the
essential virtues of Christianity?
What a glad time this should be! How full of
joy to the true Christian.
Had I not known my Watchman I should
have turned to the next page with a warmish
glow of charity and kindliness pervading my
bosom. As it was, I kept cool, and immedi-
ately encountered the following scare-head-
ing :
THE PRIESTHOOD IS ROTTEN!
And a few inches further down: —
SEDITIOUS SPEECH BY A PRIEST.
And below that: —
VIOLENT SPEECH BY A DOMINICAN MONK.
An anonymous writer whose two columns
of Rome-baiting are mostly of a more or less
waggish nature (for example, he invariably
refers to Archbishop Kelly either as “Cap’en
Kelly” or “the galliant cap’en”) turns
abruptly from gay to grave at the finish,
and mentions that “Roman schools turn
bright, brainy boys into fawning, supersti-
tious, canting rogues.” From start to finish
the journal points the moral of “what a glad
and peaceful season it is, how many little
quarrels are made up and how many offences
pardoned” by doing its level best to exacer-
bate the most futile, and resultless, and
wicked, and nationally injurious old quarrel
on record. I never attend my ancestral
chapel nowadays. Papers and parsons of the
Watchman way of thinking convinced me
years ago that there was something rotten
in the state of Wowsing. Which suggests
to me that militant sectarianism combined
with flagrant and sickening hypocrisy may
be the real cause of the deserted kirk, a.nd
the resultant tragedy of the unfilled collection
plate.
It is to be hoped the baby bonus isn’t re-
sponsible for this
Gilgandra (N.S.W.), Monday.—The wife of L.
McKellar gave birth to four children in Dr. Peet’s
private hospital—two of each sex, one on Saturday
night and three on Sunday. One child is at present
living, but both it and the mother are in a low
state.
The Bulletin trusts by this time the lady
is quite well. A lady-citizen of her capacity
can’t be spared. Knibbs, who began to re-
cord Australian happenings in 1901, doesn’t
mention one single similar case. Twins,
however, occur in a fairly regular way;
every hundredth time Mrs. Gamp is called
in it is twins, sir. (It varies from one in
105 to one in 99, to be precise.) Triplets
are much more erratic; one case in 7872
was the most abundant harvest in recent
years, and one in 18,415 the worst crop.
“The Snake’s” reflections after the carol-
singers had done their worst: —
Those were grand, soothing lines of Gray’s: “Along
the cool sequester’d vale of life they kept the tenor
noiseless on their way.”
An eye like Ma’s to threaten and command. (Cor-
rected for the first time.)
An honest man’s the noblest work of God. Ap-
parently overtime is unknown in Heaven.
One good turn deserves another. In this respect
proprietors of music-halls are the most ungrateful of
men.
No ; a word on the sand is not worth two in the
bush.
A black hen will lay a white egg ; but a white egg
has been known to lay a politician.
He must have been a hard-doer who complained
that a crown was no cure for a headache.
The Germans say that all good things go in threes.
What I want to know is how the embarrassed male
stranger gets rid of the other two.
All cats are grey in the dark —except the little one
at our boardinghouse. She is blue.
“Foe”: I thirst for enlightenment. On
Monday my paper tells me there is a “wave”
of crime; Monday night brings the Blood-
stain, which tells me there is a crime “epi-
demic” ; Tuesday’s Blither intimates that
a crime “carnival” is on. What is crime—
a drink, a disease or an amusement? Or
just a sort of liairwash?
“Gamboge” : The artists of Australia are
asked by the Commonwealth Government to
compete for a prize of £250 to be given for
the best picture of the arid waste of Yass-
berra. It is a pretty idea this of getting a
lot of painters to compete against one an-
other for an alleged prize which is at best
only about equal to the price which should
be paid for a commissioned picture by a good
artist. What does the Federal Government
see in this sort of thing? Is the proposal
merely made with the idea of throwing ridi-
cule on Australian art by having the story
told in Philistia that the best men and best
work of this continent could be attracted
by the chance of winning s<> paltry a sum,
supplemented, it is true, by the approval of
art critics like Kink O’Malley?
Bernard Roberts, sentenced to death at
Sydney for wounding a man who objected
to burglary, probably told the truth when
he said he would not have fired but for men-
tion of a gun. Someone shouted to some-
one else to “get the gun.” The burglar,
realising that if a shot-gun were let loose
on him at that range he would be blown to
pieces, fired first. As it turned out, the
only “gun” in the house was a revolver,
and the party who used it couldn’t shoot
straight, and the burglar ran the gamut of
a six-shot volley without injury. Once
more: Don’t talk gun. Use it first, if you
must, and talk about it afterwards.
THE FAYING ANIMAL.
WIFE (to husband who has just bought the children a new rig-out): "Now, buy a tie or
something for yourself , George."
“Montalex” tells another fog-experience:
Re Captain A. T. Morton’s “fog-horn” sketch (B.
19/12/’l2), here is an actual, unembellished personal
experience. A good many years ago I was in the
barque Bellona, bound from Liverpool to the Piraeus
with railway iron and machinery. The old girl
could travel a bit, the Biscay had been merciful, and
we had made good time down nearly to the Straits.
Off Cape Trafalgar, however, it came down one after-
noon as thick as pea-soup, and when night fell you
couldn’t see the jibboom from the heel of the bow-
sprit. We were duly performing every minute our
three-blast fog-horn fantasia, when the eye of Fate
stared suddenly into us in the form of a faint green
blob moving up from starboard. In. less than 30
seconds it was dead ahead, and our helm was put
hard-a-port barely in time to let us clear the stern
of a craft crossing us from the southward within
short biscuit-throw. Our port light cast next
moment a dull red glow upon what was either the
mainsail of a schooner or the spanker of a larger
vessel. That was all we saw of the chap that so
nearly got our stem into him amidships. Then, be-
fore we had even time to tell each other what a close
call it had been—crash ! Something struck us on the
port-quarter with a noise like the splitting of 10,000
logs. The force of the blow slewed our head sharply
round to port, and we could faintly see the masthead
and port lights of a steamer that had rushed full-butt
into us from the northward. Then the frenzied
thumping of his reversed engines told us that he was
backing out of us again. As one man we shouted to
him to stand by; but not an answering word came
from our destroyer. “Damned Dagoes!” snapped the
skipper. “They don’t want their lingo twigged
Lively now, lads, with the quarter-boats. The two
will hold us all and Tarifa’s not 40 miles away
She won’t swim 10 minutes after that scoundrel’s
clear of us.” She didn’t, either. We couldn’t see
her sink, but from a couple of hundred yards awav
in the fog we heard the final swirl. The steamer that
had sunk us belonged to Cadiz. She was soon identi-
fied by means of her damaged bows ; the fellow who
had so coolly left us to our fate lost his “ticket”
for good, and his owners were nearly ruined through
having to pay the assessed value of our ship and
cargo.
* Keir Hardie, the sensation-monger of the
Cold Country, now claims for the worker
the right to get drunk after his day s work
is over. Hardie says he is prepared to advo-
cate a strike to maintain the great principle
involved. No doubt the thing is quite logi-
cal If the worker can find gladness in beer,
he has a perfect right to have it, just as he
has a right to eat pork. But if Hardie
wants to encourage the British worker to
exercise his right and get drunk in his oft-
liours, it is a different matter. Apart from
the fact that the comfort and happiness ot
a man’s family are not likely to be improved
by the old man drinking his wages and mak-
mg a hog of himself, it is the demoralised,
casual-working drunk who mostly comes to
the boss’s assistance and defeats any strike
for better conditions.
* * * *
“L. 8.”: There is nothing new under the
sun. Coming back from Manly and the surf
on Boxing Day, I turned up “A Step to the
Bath,” published in 1700, and read this: —
We went to the Cross Bath, where most of the
quality resorts, more famed for pleasure than cures.
Here is performed all the Wanton Dalliances imagin-
able ; celebrated Beauties, panting Breasts, and
curious shapes, almost exposed to publick view ; lan-
guishing Eyes, darting killing Glances, tempting
amorous postures, attended by soft Musick, enough
to provoke a Vestal to forbidden Pleasure, captivate
a Saint, and charm a Jove. Here also was different
sexes.... The Ladies, with their floating Jappan
Bowles, freighted with Confectionery, Kick-knacks,
Essences and Perfumes, wade about like Neptune’s
courtiers, suppling their Industrious Joynts. The
vigorous Sparks, presenting them with several
Antick Postures —as sailing on their Backs, then
embracing the Element—sink in Rapture.
* * * *
The Boer war “trophies” allotted to Ade-
laide are being gradually and quietly pushed
out. of the way. The Verran Government
decided two years ago that the humiliation
of our S’African “fellow-subjects” ought not
to continue, and removed the stands of rifles
exhibited in various Government buildings.
I here is a local association of soldiers who
fought and foraged in the Transvaal, and
they took charge of the weapons ; but as they
say they have nowhere to display the tro-
phieS’ they want to get rid of them. The
Fublic Library and Museum is the latest
body to decline to touch the unpleasant re-
minders, and the present despairing sugges-
tion is to shunt them on to the new mili-
tary depot.
AN ANNUAL EMOTION
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Once a year I vow a vow,
Form a resolution high,
Raise a hand unto my brow,
Suspirate a hopeful sigh,
Gaze intently at the sky
In a mood that seems sincere—
Once a year.
Once a year I mean to be
Better than I’ve been before;
Bid my thoughts affrighted flee
To the Land of Nevermore.
All the gods I most adore
Wink an eye and disappear —
Once a year.
Once a year a ray of light
Falls athwart my inner mind,
Showing me to walk aright
For the love of humankind
In the path so clear defined.
Whispered words of grace I hear —
Once a year.
Once a year I think to turn
From the easy, beaten track ;
Fires of aspiration burn
In my being. But, alack !
Something ever holds me back.
At my better self I sneer —
Once a year.
Once a year, and not for long,
I commune with Innocence,
Ere the ruthless syren’s song,
Breaking in on brief suspense,
Lures me to impenitence ;
Possibly I shed a tear—
Once a year.
VICTORIA.
EDMUND FISHER.


Best thing
to whiten
the clothes
Mrs. E. Field , of Newtown , Sydney ;
writes :
“ Sunlight Soap is the best
I can get for whitening the
clothes. My doctor told me
I was to use no other soap
than ‘ Sunlight ’ as it is a
true skin purifier.”
COOD
Sunlight
LAUNDRY SOAP
“WORTH POUNDS,” SAYS WANGANUI WOMAN.
“Nearly every summer I have an attack of dysen-
tery ” says Mrs. E. J. Vinall, Dublin Street, Wan-
e-anui (N.Z.). “Last summer I was so bad with it
that I had to consult a doctor, and not getting any
relief from his prescription, decided to give Cham-
berlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy a trial. Ihe
result was amazing; I felt my usual self after three
dTses Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy
is a wonderful medicine, and I would not be with-
out a bottle in the house now. It is worth
pounds.”*
Wild’s Hairdressing Kooms, 30 Upstairs,
Sydney Arcade, George and King streets, Sydney, is
the proper place to go if you want the best of atten-
tion. Electric head and face massage done in the
latest American style. Hours of business: 8.30 to
6.30 ; Saturday close at 1 o’clock.*
The Softness Shirt is
Ideal for Midsummer
The soft, yet solid-wearing Egyptian cotton
of which they are made is so light and cool
that it affords the maximum of coolness and
comfort on summer days.
Apart from the material, a character is im-
parted by the blending stripes in blue, pink.
helio, green and drab tones.
These shirts are made with soft
fronts —stiff linen neckbands,
short, stiff cuffs, or short double
cuffs.
0/9 each; 3 for 20/-
Please state size, color and style required
when ordering, and add 3d. per shirt for
postage.
Our new catalogue will be posted to any
address.
Peapes & Co. Ltd.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
r>.\
I
FAMILY SECRETS.
THE JOHNNIE: “What a large ball, Bobby!
Did Santa Claus put it in your stocking
last night? ”
THE JOY : “No, muni's."
“Billy T.” : There had not been a marriage
at Red Hill (Vic.) in seven years. Then, dur-
ing the late harvest, 11 proposals happened in
one week, and practically all the marriage-
able spinsters in the district were bespoken.
Within 10 days one fiancd was killed in a
thrashing machine, another ran away, and
Carroll, the third, was removed to a lunatic
asylum. It was then discovered that the
spinsters of Red Hill were as desolate as
ever—Carroll had proposed to nine of them.
Sou ter Johnnie” is annoyed:—
Will you kindly publish “Hassan’s” private ad-
dress . Quite a number of Northern Territory people
want to know where he lives; they would like to
send some things to him.
/D De X e ,l°?„A h ? Territory with prison labor, eh?
‘ 1/ 12.) The yarn that Australia wouldn’t
have anything like the population it has but for
*"“ e . feet that most of the early arrivals came in
chains is stale. Australia would probably have had
more immigrants. I myself have known of Old
Country emigrants who have avoided this country for
the reason that they were afraid to go to a land
in whose foundations the broad arrow played so con-
spicuous a part. Woefully ignorant people, to be
sure, but that doesn’t help us at all.
“Hassan’s” scheme or plot would settle the Terri-
tory, certainly. That is, it would settle any chance
it has of getting desirable immigrants. Would
intending settlers rush the country if they knew
that their next-door neighbor was a time-expired
garrotter or a sex maniac probably? Men are wanted
here, not degenerates.
No ! No! You want a few good roads yourselves
yet. Keep your gaol-birds and have chain gangs of
your own.
What about letting us have, instead, a few cargoes
of rails, fishplates, sleepers (not the human variety;
you’ve sent all we require of them already), navvies
and so on, to build a railway through to Oodna-
datta ? Then “Hassan” could run up and see the
country he knows nothing about, and take back with
him the few gaol-birds we have here and put them on
roadmaking in his own State. Moreover, if he will
see about that railway soon, we will send him a lot
of wheat, rice, beef, minerals and tropical produce;
also crocodiles’ horns, buffaloes’ claws and old
prospecting dishes.
I think I know what’s wrong with “Hass” —he’s
afraid of the Masked Burglar !
» * * *
Concerning two rival sea-routes: —
Mills, the chairman of the Union Co., gave the
Panama Canal the cold eye when speaking at the
annual meeting of his co. Shipping between Aus-
tralia and Europe has nothing to gain, he thinks,
by passing through the Canal, and he adds that the
most profitable Anglo-Australian passengers, the first-
salooners, who make the combined rail-and-steamer
trip, would flatly refuse to go through the Canal at
all. But there is another project on foot which may
mean something. French engineers have hatched a
scheme for a line of railway from the Straits of
Gibraltar to Juba, on the East African coast, where
the passengers would be met by a swift steamer
which would bring Bombay within nine days of
London, and this would clip four days or so off the
time now required to reach Australia. #
“Nuki’s” wicked tale :
The chief excitement of the King Country (MX.)
police is the pursuit of the wily sly grog-seller, two
genial officers recently descended, per spring-cart, on
a small store in the wilds. After examining the sar-
dines and salmon tins, inspecting the bottles and
prodding the soft goods, they alighted on a keg ot
vinegar, which smelt like something else. The Law
annexed the keg,
remarked severely
that the owners
would hear from
them anon, climbed
into the cart and
drove off. It was
a fierce day, and
presently one of
the raiders almost
collapsed with
thirst. His friend
ventured to recom-
mend reasonable
recourse to the
keg, and took a
little himself to es-
tablish Sociability.
A mile further on
they drank each
other’s health a s
proof of goodwill.
Next mile they
drank their wives’
health. Then they
drank all the Royal
F a mily’s. The
township had re-
ceived wind of the
raid, and, with an
inspector from the
city in the fore-
ground, the popu-
lace awaited the
triumphant return
of the Law. What
happened officially
when there saun-
tered down the
main street a
driverless spring-
car t, containing,
locked in each
other’s arms on the
floor, two very
drunk and happy
' policemen, and a
keg with an inspiring odor round the bunghole, has
never been satisfactorily ascertained.
Port Pirie (S.A.) last week got a sudden
impression that the Balkan scrap had
blown out of its course. Of 17 firemen who
had deserted the steamer Clan Alpine, nine
were successfully lumbered after much ex-
penditure of stoush and language, and duly
appeared at the police court. Then the trou
bles in the Balkans began. Two of the men
broke loose and went for the captain, the
detectives, the lawyers and the police. In
fact they seemed willing to take on the
universe. The other prisoners began to
show signs of restiveness, and it was ob-
vious that, if they got busy too, and could
fight only half as well as the two who had
started the campaign, Law and Order were
in for a mighty bad time. But the psycho-
logical moment passed, the other seven did
not interfere, and the fighting pair were over-
powered. Then the voice of the Law,
serene and cold, remarked “seven months
and “12 weeks” respectively; and the cap-
tain went off to plaster up his broken face,
while the prosecuting solicitor attended to
the most beautiful black eye of his life.
THE RARA AVIS.
THE HOSTESS: “Good women hard to find! Nonsense, Professor! You, for instance,
am sure, have a good woman for a wife."
THE PROFESSOR : “ Vell, yes, but I marry fife times before I findt her."
Sydney had a fire the other night, and
nobody was much hurt. But that was not
because there wasn’t material handy to
crowd several hospitals and a cemetery or
two. The big wholesale drug stores, where
the illumination happened, were stocked with
the usual merchandise, and when the firemen
got to work they found themselves up against
a roaring Sheol of vari-colored flame, and a
maelstrom of acrid smoke and fumes as
deadly as the firedamp in an obstreperous coal
mine. Time and again the brigadesmen had
to turn tail before the belching nitric acid
fumes, and stagger into the street, dragging
their impotent hoses behind them. _ One
plucky fellow, perched on a ledge an inch or
so wide, smashed in a window to let the
nozzle through. In an instant he vanished
in a smoke-cloud, which made his mates be-
low listen for the thud of his falling body.
The thud didn’t come, but it was a very sick
fireman who was helped down. And all this,
with all the hideous possibilities that crouched
behind all this, was because “trade” mustn t
be hampered—“trade” must have free scope!
For many weary years the fire _ authorities
have been shouting the rank insanity of
allowing unlimited quantities of inflammable
goods to be housed in the bowels of a con-
gested city, and urging that the bulk stores
of bottled and cased Sheol should be isolated.
But “trade,” scenting a little inconvenience
thereby, has objected, and jelly-spined Gov-
ernments have turned the cold ear and the
frozen eye to the brigades. The difference
between this case and the case of the Bishop
who must be killed to secure railway re-
forms is that it is sometimes possible to
catch the Bishop, but under no circum-
stances does “trade” ever become a fireman,
to be burned in its own furnace.
* * * •
Private advices say that “Pa” Delohery
has whipped the Ma State badly. Briefly,
Pa was a stipendiary magistrate at £7OO a
year, and, about 1900, was made a Public
Service Board Commissioner at £lOOO. On
retiring from the Board, Pa applied for a
pension of £660 13s. 4d., being two-thirds of
£lOOO, his last salary. The Crown Law
Department turned this down as an extrava-
gant proposal. This annoyed Pa, who is
father of a family learned in the law, and
they promptly fired a writ at Ma for extra
pension, interest, damages, etc. —about £5OOO
in all. The staggered Crown, instead of
compromising (Pa was then nearly 70).
rushed to law. Wade was Attorney-General
when the shindy started, so the result was
almost a foregone conclusion, inasmuch as
during his long campaign of chivvying aged
public servants through the law courts, he
never succeeded in fairly beating one of
them. Both Full Court and High Court
decided for Pa; but Ma, as usual, went to
the Privy Council. This authority gave Pa
a verdict also, and further insulted Ma by
not even asking Pa’s counsel to argue the
case. The family of Delohery collars its
£5OOO or so with costs on the highest
with a trip to London thrown in, as well as
much kudos and advt. in the legal profes-
sion. The Delohery case, coming after a
crop of equally disastrous litigation, suggests
that Ma’s legal advisers might profitably
take a day or two off and study the N.S.W.
Public Service Acts.
“S.T.S.”: George Lambert’s 1000 guineas,
collected from a Russian prince for ‘‘The
Man with the Mask,” suggest several things.
Lambert’s painting was a fine work of art,
but almost beyond doubt it was the audaci-
ous handling of the nudes that brought the
money. Stay-at-home Australians are sel-
dom strong in anatomy, probably because the
local market for the nude is so very doubtful
as to make the study not worth while. In
Europe, a thing is likely to sell because it
is a nude. Apart from speculative exhibi-
tion work, there are the highly-paid com-
missions for illustrating books. Quite a lot
of societies exist mainly to translate from
the Italian or the Arabian little-known
works, which are nearly always erotic. Say
1000 subscribers at two guineas—it makes a
handsome sum for translator, artist and pub-
lisher. The pictures, beautifully done, and
by well-known men, go just as far as they
can without positively inviting a police pro-
secution. As a matter of fact, such a prose-
STRIKING AN A ITRACE.
LADY (to applicant for position of gardener)
"You are, of course, strictly sobe?"
APPLICANT: “Yes, mum, often."
cution is never heard of, though the tame
pictures circulated iu cheap form woulu be
dropped on at once. A German court, in-
deed, has with cynical frankness given judg-
ment that anything costing £1 upwards is
a work of art, and not to be judged by “post-
card” standards. So, given a state of
society which is at t.he same time wealthy
and decadent, corruption is likely to in-
crease. It is something to be thankful for
that Australian society is at present neither.
THE STRIKE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The bells that ring the Old Year out
Went clashing through the summer night;
The quaking hour was put to rout,
Nor paused to show a moment’s fight;
One thin mosquito raised a shout
Of fiendish malice and delight.
I felt as solemn as a cow,
While from the steeple overhead
The bells with fretful rage and row
Proclaimed the passing moments dead ;
A fevered thought was in my brow
That would not let me go to bed.
“Suppose,” I said my soul within—
Though outwardly my lips were dumb—
“ln answer to that brazen din
The New Year should decline to come,
This world of cabbage, soap and sin
Would find the situation rum.
“The Old Year was a heavy clown,
His quips and cranks were sad and stale.
But is it wise to turn him down,
Or bash his features with a rail,
When no one in this blessed town
Can for another year go bail ?”
The bells rang on with clang and shock,
But I was full of doubt and fear,
The noisy clamor seemed to mock
Some psychic discord in my ear ;
I sat and watched the eight-day clock
Till January should appear.
The pendulum with solemn swing
My senses seemed to overpower,
It ticked and tacked like anything
The trembling moments to devour,
As if it really sought to bring
The Old Year past the dreaded hour.
And then a frightful thing occurred,
A thing that filled me with despair.
And made me lift up hands absurd
To tear out bunches of my hair—-
Beyond the hour it never stirred ,
But struck and stayed exactly there.
The year was gone beyond recall,
The wheels that work the world were stuck.
I saw a spirit fair and tall
Who blandly smiled and wished me luck.
She said : “Poor slave that wert his thrall,
Arise! Be glad! Old Time has struck!”
N.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.
FLASHLIGHT OF A SYDNEY BY-WAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Street lights winking through a soft rain falling ;
The bars all darkened and the girls in Blanket
Bay;
A small, lone newsboy monotonously calling
The long-stale headlines of an all-but-finished day ;
A fast-paced hansom and a laugh above the hoof-
strokes ;
A scuffle in an alley and a curse from out the
gloam ;
A frail, pale Mary, whose “Good-night” sounds like
hell-croaks ;
A hoarse “drunk” singing home.
N.S.W.
J. B.


SOME SUMMER GIRLS.


The Household Disiniectant-
Carbolacene
Cleanses and disinfects
in one act.
For washing floors, paint work,
sponging carpets, etc. Removes
dirt, prevents disease,
In the bath and for washing the
hair.
A wonderful healer of cuts and
sores and skin eruptions.
In the sick room. Instantly des-
troys all germs.
For washing animals. Destroys
all vermin.
USED BY ALL HOSPITALS
If not obtainable at your Chemi
SYDNEY:
Arthur Muston &
%\
V
THe World’s Best.
DAIMLER
MOTOR LORRY.
Silent Knight Engine.
Shaft Drive- No Chains.
mi
•r.
: V-
iu.
SUNSHINE
Motor Cars P’t’y,
Melbourne.
Hugh V. McKay, Sydney &. Adelaide
.)
Sole
Agents.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Mulga Mick” : Re the emu’s work in dis-
tributing quandongs over the face of W.A. country.
Many “storekeepers’ ” rushes on the goldfields have
been put down to the big bird’s fondness for picking
up a bright article. In this way a small slug of
gold of three or four dwt. has been unloaded in the
bush, and that one piece has led to tons of earth
being chucked about by eager hunters f or more.
UNANIMITY.
THE APPROACHER: “Could you spare thrip-
pence, boss?”
THE APPROACHED: “For drink, I suppose?
If I had my way there wouldn't be a drop
of liquor left in the country
THE APPROACHER (with wild enthusiasm):
“Same 'ere, boss! Thems my sentiments
prezactly."
“Californian” : Re deep-rooting vegetables
(B. 5/12/’l2), I have known that delightful weed,
the Californian thistle (the hardest thing I know of
to eradicate), to burrow down farther than 40ft.
The roots are there for anyone to see who cares to
pay a visit to the banks of a Gijjpsland river. 111
send the exact address for two stamps.
Inchiquin”: Ever heard of “runaway
holes” ? The south-eastern district of S.A. is full
of them, and the quantity of water they ca rv away
and the time they do it in are both marvellous. A
“runaway hole” is more like a well than anything
else, and, strange to say, always has a certain amount
of water in it. A while ago we had sin. of rain in
four days, and at the end of the downpour there was
water in every direction. That was on Tuesday
night ; on the following Thursday morning all one
could see was here and there a small puddle. The
Mundalla Swamp covers about 100 acres and holds
10ft. of water all over it. At one end is a “runaway
hole,” which seems to open and close in spasms.
One night the swamp will be full; next day the hole
opens up ; three days later the swamp is as dry as
a churchwardens’ meeting. Dunno where the water
goes ; all I know is it goes.
* * * *
“Pick”: “Giddap” (B. 21/11/T2)' has dis-
covered a 40ft. rabbit burrow that did not show at
its entrance a mound of the excavated earth, and
he can’t understand it. On level country the rabbit
always gets the soil away right from the outset of
his mining, otherwise every fall of rain would wash
the stuff down and block up his exit. He trucks the
soil in his fur. His curveting and dancing around
his burrow is not, as generally supposed, wild excess
of joy, but is the hard yakker he has to go through
to unload the clay out of his coat.
* * * *
“Gee Gee”: One of the best-known and
most popular blacks in the Ma State’s western dis-
trict was Sambo, the blacktracker, who passed in his
marble at Condobolin a few days ago. First time I
met Sambo was in Condo, about 15 years ago. He
had been instrumental in a fine capture of a horse-
thief, and was making huge preparations for the
trial, even going so far as to get his shirt washed.
He hung the shirt out, and was inside waiting for it
to dry when it mysteriously disappeared. On noticing
this, Sambo, shirtless, galloped to the Convent School,
and breathlessly informed the teacher that “my plurry
little girl Sophie wearin’ my tchirt, I ’speet, and I
got no tchirt to wear before the Lord Judge.” Last
time I met him I was doing a bit of droving ’way out
between Condobolin and Sunset, and my complexion
was burnt nearly as black as 7.30 on a mid-winter
night. Sambo asked me for “a bob,” and when I told
him that it was about six months since I had seen one,
he remarked most amiably, “You nice plurry man,
won’t give pheller-countryman a bob.” I gave him
the last sixpence I had, and told him I was in an
awful hurry.
*# * *
“Gouger”: About the most unexpected
night’s spree I ever knew of was sprung on us by
an elderly, mild-looking gentleman, with spectacles
and a microscope. It was at Weetalibah (N.S.W.).
The first night the old chap was there he borrowed
a hurricane lamp from the publican, and commenced
shooting at the small flying bats from the pub
verandah. We gathered round in respectful silence.
After half an hour’s hard shooting, that merely made
a sieve of the atmosphere, Long Harry got his pea-
rifle and brought down two straight away. The
professor was delighted, and, thanking Harry pro-
fusely, picked up his prizes and laid them on the
table. Getting his microscope to bear on the corpses,
the professor presently produced a tiny
phial and appeared to be rounding up in-
visible objects into the open bottle. Evi-
dently some of them accepted the invita-
tion, for the professor would jam the
cork in quickly, and chuckle like an in-
fant with a toy. But not a single thing
could we see in the phials. After a long
while Harry spoke. “Say, boss,” he said,
“would it be any harm to ask you what’s
in them flasks?” “Oh, certainly not,”
replied the professor; “small parasites
that live on the skins of these bats. These
two specimens you just shot have yielded
me some splendid samples.” Harry
looked round at us in astonishment. Then
his face changed to pity. Leaning over the
professor’s shoulder, so that the publican
couldn’t possibly hear him, he whispered,
“Look here, matey, the rum’s bad in
these parts. You stick to beer —it’s best
in the long run.” The professor straight-
ened up. “My good man,” he gasped,
“you mistake me. I have not been drink-
ing.” Then, after a pause, and to prove
no doubt that he really had got a prize—
“lf you can procure me a dozen such
specimens as I have here I will buy you
and your friends all the rum they can
drink.” There was an instant of pained
silence, then a rush for guns and ammu-
nition. For an hour the night sounded
like two hundred Boer wars and five
Mafekings. The professor had to take his prizes
away in Ryan’s bullock waggon. But he paid up
—-a painful, long-drawn-out pay-up—and learnt that
night what men can do when they put their thirst to
it.
“Marloo”: Early this summer swarms of
locusts made their appearance in the Richmond River
district (N.S.W.). .During the daytime they attached
themselves to trees, mainly gums, skirled vigorously,
and mostly behaved like well-brought-up cicadas.
But by-and-bye it was noticed that many of the
eucalpts were beginning to show signs of feeling
just anyhow. On investigation numerous small holes
were found in the bark. It was then pretty evident
that the locusts had simultaneously decided on a
change of diet from leaves, etc., to gum-sap, and
the sap they obtained by burrowing into the bark.
Entomologist Froggatt, of the N.S.W. Dept, of Agri-
culture, says this is the first recorded instance of the
cicada dining on this fodder ; and if the rowdy insect
doesn’t let his new habit drop, he is likely to make
a whole lot of enemies for himself.
“H.W.C.” comes down from the Mulga
and reports on things in Sydney:— .
The Botanical Gardens are a breeding-ground for
sparrows, silvereyes, starlings, cactus and prickly-
pear, and the scrub is so thick that no clear view
can be obtained from any point. As there is no dead
timber to burn off the pear and cactus, pits should
be dug and the pear and cactus thrown into them.
A plentiful sprinkling of salt and arsenic should
then be applied on top. A gang should be put on
to ringbark the pines and belt out the scrub, etc.
At present a large number of gardeners are em-
ployed, but they waste most of their time dodging
in and out of the scrub after the flowers. Once clear
the country properly and one gardener could watch
the lot. Visitors also could then have a clear view,
and get back to town without waste of time. A
couple of poison carts run out night and morning
would soon deal with the feathered pests. The
statues should be put up to auction, and those of
better known people substituted. Notice boards to
“keep off the grass” should be abolished. Where it
is found necessary to keep the public back, by all
means plant spinifex. It is as green as the other
and doesn’t require spoon-feeding with notice boards.
The Art Gallery also wants remodelling. I found
scarcely a soul there I had heard of; among those
crowded out by persons who must be little known in
this country are Trickett, Beach, Spofforth, Jackson,
Larry Foley and Trumper. Some of the pictures have
animals in them, but almost without exception, they
are not worth buying. I instance “Outside the For-
tifications of Paris”—a huge picture set up to boom
about 30 barefaced, barelee-ged, flukey old ewes, many
of which are broken-mouthed, as may be seen from
their gutta-percha-loolcing lips. A tenth-rate backblock
cocky couldn’t rake up a worse mob. A few decent
examples of big mobs of our own sheep, which are
the best in the world, appear in photographs about a
foot square. Several of the pictures are old and
want varnishing.
Centennial Park is satisfactory. From any com-
manding hillock visitors can see the lot, the country
being well cleared and improved. This land would
keep one sheep to two acres in fair average seasons.
If suitably enclosed the billabong would keep four
to five hundred alligators, whose belly skin is worth
a lot. On the flats a few acres of potatoes would do
well. It’s a bit scrubby in one or two places, and a
gang of ringbarkers for a week would not be out of
place.
In Sydney Harbor I noticed a place called Pinch-
gut, which I am informed is now put to no useful
purpose. I suggest that the existing out-of-day
buildings thereon should be demolished, and the wool
firms be invited to tender for a lease of the island.
Up-to-date stores could be erected thereon for the
storage of tallow and hides in a most convenient
situation.
“Marloo” : “Stingaree” (B. 14/11/T2) re-
marks that the white crane is the one and only
friend of the Queensland crocodile. Either “Sting-
aree” has mistakenly identified the spur-winged
plover, or ziczac, as the white crane, or his re-
mark is incorrect. The plover not only warns the
crocogator of an approaching enemy by its peculiar
shriek, but it also performs another very valuable
service for the ugly lizard. The ’gator at times is
pestered by swarms of leeches, which attach them-
selves to the inner part of its lips and various
other unfortified portions of his masticating depart-
ment. When the leeches are over the odds and the
’dile is about to faint, he signals to the plover by
some means, presumably by opening his mouth as
wide as possible. Whatever the signal is, the bird
knows the code, for it straightway hastens to evict
the blood-suckers by transferring them to its own
innards. And the ’gator shows his gratitude by
blankly refusing to partake of plover flesh either
dead or alive.
“Stohr Ruddell”: What strikes me most
sorrowfully in the bush is the number of furious
axe-wielders, fencers, muck shifters, etc., who are
dead. Joe the Roarer fenced 10 miles while the
jackeroo drafted tne contract. Wild O’Ginnis shifted
50 cubic yards of the earth and two columns of
profanity every eight hours. The Fenian smacked
up three cord of 4ft. where average men ended in
debt. And Barooga Bill, they say, could take a
string of 22 bullocks by the unaided force of his
curse where you couldn’t drive a sulky. All these
died young; but long-legged Cock, who boasts of not
having done a bleedin’ tap since he lobbed in the
bleedin’ country 20 years ago, is down on the river
with cosy swag and well-filled nosebag. He’s dead,
too; but he’ll wake in the morning and get a
reviver if anybody will shout.
THE GOOD BUSHMAN.
STRANGER : “ What's your (reek like, Jacky?”
JACKY : “Ok, him good-feller bushman, boss-
berry full or berry dry."
“Yancy”: Did I hear anybody mention
mud? Let him subside and I will back Poverty
Bay (M.L.) to carry more mud to the mile than
any other part of Australasia. I’ve seen the whole
district reduced to a semi-liquid state, through which
nothing could move but pack-horses; and you could
hear them moving miles away like suction pumps
at work. In the provincial capital, Gisborne, not
long ago, a girl, attempting to cross a road, was
bogged so firmly that she had to be dug out with
a spade. And I knew one farmer whose stockyard
was nearly ankle-deep in mud —if you fell in head
first.
HARD MOZZLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Not understood! Oh, strike me up a gum-tree!
It kinder gives a bloke the bloomin’ pip
To find his efforts all knocked ’umpty dumptv
By other blokes, what allers rush the kip.
Not understood ! Gorblime ! ’s worse’n pizen
ior blokes t’ allers think yer runnin’ stiff
To see a blanky bobby’s eyebrows risi-n’.
Suspicious cow ! ’e wants a flamin’ biff.
Not understood ! Ye rig verself in clobber,
Y’ kid yerself 'd touch th’ ’ardest ’eart;
Then go to Clontarf, where y’ find yer cobber
Has done v’ in, an’ beat ye fur y e r tart.
Not understood ! Y’ cop one in th’ bingie,
Jis’ when ye think ve’ve got ’im dead to rights;
\ ’ claim a foul, but referees are stingy—
Y’ never get a chance t’ win no fights.
Not understood ! Y’ meant t’ ’elp that neddv
By givin’ ’im a dose afore the race;
The stooards cop ye, an’ yer tale ain’t ready ;
So ’ome y’ go, upon yer bloomin’ ace.
Not understood! Y’ ’elp the sick an’ fallen—
Poor blokes what ’ave no ’ome except the Park—
To find some sneakin’ copper ’as been crawlin’
Be’ind a bush, t’ act the cussed nark.
Not understood ! Y’ never get no credit
Fur all the things ye mean t’ do nex’ week ;
Y’ mark th’ course, but, when y’ start t’ tread it,
Y’ find yerself lugged up afore the beak.
Not understood! A bloke gits fair disgusted,
When, after tryin’ ’ard t’ be so good,
’E finds. isself at last completely busted,
An’ not a ’ope o’ bein’ understood.
N.S.W.
DOWN AND OUT.
On the Boards
She’d sapphire eyes and marble brows,
A golden glory decked her head.
They met by chance. He painted cows.
And she was “on the boards,” she said.
They got on well. It was, said. he.
Art's glorious affinity.
They met again, the artist and
The maiden who was on the boards.
• They strolled upon the silver sand.
And spoke of sympathetic chords.
Agreeing art was all apart
From matters that were mainly heart.
And oft they met, till that sad day
When fatal chance, her joy to rob.
Disclosed to him his blue-eyed fay
A servant girl upon the Job.
Poor Jane was on the boards all right,
\ And scrubbing them extremely white.
VICTORIA.
SNELL.


?QUP&
MADE FROM
ONLY
PUREST -
BARKED YOUR SHINS?
takl el ; !wflv y vn' ,^ heklo P’ s Magnetic Liniment; it will
take away all the pam and stiffness, and you will
sr«&ss.“- ‘' r " s ’ >*• «• - *>■ o»js
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel m Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
BILIOUS ATTACKS CURED.
‘i 1 b ?. ve been a continuous sufferer from headache
and bilious vomiting attacks for 25 vears ” writes
Mr. Donald Coutts, Condah (Vic) '“During that
an sorts of medicines that proved useless. Being
brain's Table s COU H be ° Ured ’ 1 Cham
her am s Tablets, and can assure you that they com
pletely cured me, and I feel like a new mam”*
Foggitt, Jones'
Jellied Pigs’ Feet
make • delightful luncheon dith.
They are packed in tint ready for
•ervice. For thoae who like ,ome.
>hing appetizing they are really
un*urp«s»ed. Your irrnr*r k. .
NABOB BOOT PASTF.
ONE APPLICATION WILI I act *
lewis ;:;r ,s necessarv ,n
WHITTY, Makers, Melbourne and Sydney.
the Waterproof
Boot Polish.
“Eddyson”: He was a small, shaggy man,
way-worn and travel-stained. At his feet was a
craftsman’s swag, at his elbow reclined a footsore
dog. He wanted a light and when he handed back
the box he said: “S’pose I don’t look like a bloke
what’s got millions in his hands?” I hinted as
gracefully as possible that he did not convey to my
mind the idea of mountains of misbegotten riches.
“There’s where yer mistook,” continued the weary
wayfarer. “Look et this.” He lifted his hat, and
a mass of tawny hair tumbled down over a face on
which prolific whiskers were already crawling in
tangled masses. “Three years ago I was ez bald ez
a chiney door-knob, ’n’ couldn’t raise no more
whiskers than a scalded cat. Now I’m the hairiest
man in Hostralia. I challenges anyone t’ produce
a hairier. ’Ow did I raise all this hair? There’s
where the millions comes in. I’ve got the only in-
fallible, never-failin’ hair-restorer on earth. I’ve
got rivers of it. I’m down from the Swift’s Creek
country, back o’ Sale. I was prospectin’ ’n’ minin’
generally up in the hills fer nearly four year, campin’
’longside a spring. I’d bin washin’ in the water
from that spring a matter iv two months when I
sees the little ’airs a-shootin’ up. Look et me arms
—hair. Look et me legs—more hair. It fetched
hair up outer me ’ead like wet wheat in a pannikin.
Betcher life, I wasn’t long tumblin’ t’ the fact that
me fortune was made. What does I do but pegs out
that spring, ’n’ applies fer me lease! I got her here,
’n’ I’m in Melbourne after capitalists t’ float Andy
Lang’s Swift Hair Lifter —on’y Natural ’Air Restorer
on Earth, into a company, capital £lOO,OOO in
100,000 shares iv a quid a-piece.” I must have
smiled somewhat incredulously. “Oh, you grin, do
yell? You ain’t tailin’ any? Well, look et me dog.”
He stirred the dog up. It was the wooliest dog I
have ever seen ; its hirsute growth swept the ground.
The swaggie ploughed up its fleece triumphantly.
“Look et ’im,” he cried. “Afore that dog started
swimmin’ in Andy Lang’s Swift Ilair Lifter he w'as
a wire-haired terrier.”
THE RELIABLE SMOKE CURE.
I was a hard smoker for 30 years, but since
taking your Specific I have never had a smoke.”
THE MOST IMPORTANT ITEM.
INHABITANT (severely) : “ Paintin'? Why
don't yer paint the noo pub up the
road?"
ARTIST : “But this old one is so picturesque
Inhabitant: 'Wes, but the beer's rotten."
“Yigilans”: Dudley Le Soeuf, of the Mel-
bourne Zoo, said on returning from the Northern
Territory, where he was commissioned to set free 50
deer at Port Essington, that the coastal belt did not
carry cattle, but goats did well; also that crocodiles
are much more feared than sharks, because the brutes
seek their prey on land as well as in the water. The
coastal belt, as it is to-day, certainly will not carry
European cattle, but that is only because the grasses
are rank and insect pests troublesome. The Gulf of
Carpentaria is a graveyard of shorthorns. But if
the country were closely settled and paspalum dilata-
tum introduced, the foreign grasses would eat out the
rank and sour fodders. As regards goats, these
quadrupeds should have been turned out
at Port Essington instead of deer. It
would be a good and useful experiment.
Where goats depasture the rank grasses
of the Territory perish, and other vege-
tables grow in their place. While living
at Yam Creek I had a large herd of Mr.
and Mrs. Williams. On the feeding
grounds tbe spear grass disappeared, and
short, succulent stuff grew instead. Horses
would stand for hours on these patches
nibbling the short shoots. Goats thrive
wonderfully on areas on which no other
animals now exist. They are most pro-
lific, too, the kiddings going as high as
130 per cent. But these are the backdoor
variety. We need to introduce Angoras,
which would be more profitable as well as
equally useful. But deer, if they live,
will, I venture to say, become merely a
pest, as they have in parts of Victoria. It
is very doubtful, though, if they will live
in a tropical climate where the insect
pests are so annoying, though I’m aware
they do well enough in Java. As for
cattle, the right animals are the Indian
buffalo and Brahmin cattle. I lived o-n
the meat of these animals and of Angora
goat for some years. Young kid of the
Angora species is as good as lamb. By
the way, going back to Le Soeuf’s yarn,
I never heard of anyone long resident in
the North being afraid of crocodiles on
land. The great estuarine saurian, though
a ferocious monster in the water, is a
coward on firm earth. The brutes are
very numerous in the waters of King’s
Sound and Cambridge Gulf, and may be
seen any time at low water under the
jetties of Derby and Wyndham. The
people of Wyndham (which is only a strip
of sand some 50 yards wide with a InVh
- ... wiuc vvilii a. mgn
hill behind) sleep on the verandahs of the dwellings
and in the “street” under a cheesecloth net; but no
one has been kidnapped by the amphibians. The
hotels in Derby are quite close to the water ; drunks
sleep all over the place, and remain unmolested
except by mosquitoes and sandflies.
* * *
“Booroondara”: Whenever any of Maho-
met’s faithful want meat at a backblocks station
they always arrange to execute the animal them-
selves. It is part of their creed not to allow a dog
(or worse) of an infidel to do the despatching But
they don’t mind him doing the skinning and cut-
tmg up. Any creed that encourages the other creed’s
followers to do the hard work of a job commands
my best wishes.
“Mr. Ocky”: If there is ony champion-
ship belt offered for bird persistence, I am going to
nominate two magpies, which have been residents of
the district between Ballarat and Geelong for the
past two or three seasons. Their particular obstinacy
shows itself in a determination to rear a family in
the telegraph wires of a bleak part of the country.
Time after time the nest has been built with old
pieces of wire and other scraps, and communication
along the line has been interfered with. Then lines-
men have had to go out to smash up the home, and
they have done it so often that they have got into
the habit of putting down any trouble to “those
magpies again.” So far as I can find out, a family has
not yet been reared between the wires, and probably
one never will be. But the persistent old birds have
vowed that it can be done, and that they are the
people to do it.
“P.A.Q.”; “Tiaki” (B. 21/11/’32) holds
that “Tumumu” and “Te Kuri” are wrong in assum-
ing that to the Maori “kuri” signifies dog. He further
states that kuri means quadruped, and that the cor-
rect word for the fleahive is “kararehe.” Both the
words stand for quadruped as well as for dog, and
the animal has at least a dozen other names. “Pero-
pero” is about the only one that means just plain dog
and nothing else. Further, I am prepared to wager
a side of dried shark to a bag of kumaras that
if “Tiaki” visits any pa in the North Island, and
asks to see the hounds, using either his fancy name
or even mine, Henare would not understand him ;
let him ask for “te kuri,” however, and in no time
he will be surrounded by a howling, mangy mob.
More than half the Maori words have several dis-
tinct meanings, just the same as if my friends said
1 was sozzled, squiffy, swanked, paralytic, blithery
speechless inebriated, or had gone a'million, they
would still be meaning the same old drunk.
“Arrino” : There’s some talk in late issues
(late to me, I’m a good way out) concerning camels,
J e \[ r^ ntlve memory, etc. In my experience they
dont differ much from the horse, ass, bullock or
og More than half their peculiarities are simply
due to the observer’s want of knowledge. I knew a
camel labelled as a maneater and a brute of un-
speakable character. The only fault I could find
with him was that he was born tired. Every time
he stretched his jaws, he was going to bite some-
one s head off, or swallow the outfit. Another
awful brute growled all day for about a fortnight,
hey were all afraid to go near him. As a matter
of fact the poor old bloke was crying for his mate
which had been taken away after two years’ company’
let he soon chummed up with another and was
happy. A man going among camels for the first
time is naturally more nervous than he would be if
he were going among (say) horses. No matter
where he was born, he is to a degree familiar with
the horse But e soon learns. On the big fence in
W.A., only white men were employed. All the
transport was by camel team. The white men in
charge of these teams soon “took a tumble” to the
business. Whereas three Afghans are required to
J? a . Ck Ca I m '. S ’ . two ' vh ites were allowed for the
ob, and they did it better. Their teams soon began
to assume a fine healthy appearance, and were a
credit to them. Bulling camels are, I'll admit dan-
gerous; but so are stallions and stud bulls. Even a
caterpillar can be unpleasant at times.
“Billy B”: My oath. I had a treat the
other day! Down for my Christmas blow-out, I
lobbed into the Botanic Gardens, in Sydney, after
going once round the pubs. I asked a bloke if there
was any ti-tree about, and he showed me the section
where the Australian trees grow. ’Struth, it was
boshter to find old friends hundreds of miles from
home. First one I spotted was saxifragoeeae cera-
topelalum gummiferum; and bliine, if alongside. it
wasn’t old borragmaceae cynogeossum anstrade, with
its little blue flower same as Outback. After mooch-
ing about a while I was knocked fair bandy by meet-
ing proteaceae telopea speciosissima. The old hands
used to call it waratah, but that was before blokes
went to the University. In a little dip was the
apocynaceae tabernaemontana orientalis tree. We
had one growing near the old place, and many - a
time Mollie used to drop me a note: “See you to-
night, ate [that’s how she spelt eight] o’clock at the
old apoc. tab.” And I remember tracking to her
through the rutaceal eriostemon scater paxt. many
a night. Then came our little selection and the hard
toil, clearing the amaryllidaceae crinum flaecidum
and underscrubbing the epacridaceae braehyloma
daphnoides (benth.) and cutting that old favorite,
chenopodiaceae rhogodia nutans (R-. br.), which
Salt Bush Bill was named after. It all came back
to me. Making hats out of amaryllidaceae doryanthes
palmeri, and burning off that nark, leguminosa oxy-
lobium trilobatum (f.v.m.), Anil near Denman’s
ex-washhouse I found that cow of a vegetable dil-
lenioceae hibbertia bracteata (benth.). The only
thing I was sorry for was I couldn’t find any ti-
tree or bluegum or wattle. Still it was all i
right, and I had II beers to top it off.
“Troddles’’: I have to write this to dispel
the ignorance of “Briefless” (B. 21/IT/’l2), con-
cerning the culinary value of the fresh-water tor-
toise. He is evidently assuming that the hideous
reptile that haunts the swamps and lagoons of Aus-
tralia is identical with the gastronomical delicacy
which, to some extent, is taking the place of the
large marine green turtle in the preparation of turtle
soup. Such is not the case. Sydney, for instance,
is dependent upon Japan for its supply of this
esculent amphibian. The snapping-turtle, :or soft-
shell tortoise of Japan, is one of the so-called “soft
river-tortoises,” which are confined to the rivers of
the warmer regions of Asia, Africa and America.
The most striking feature of these reptiles is to be
found in the formation of their shells. These are
devoid of horny shields, and are very imperfectly
ossified, more particularly round their borders, where
they are quite soft and flabby. Externally* they are
characterised by their long necks; which can be com-
pletely withdrawn into the shell; also by the
proboscis-like snout and thick, fleshy lips concealing
the jaws. The menu of the four-legged fish consists
chiefly of meat of any kind, grubs, earth-worms and
vegetable substances. He grows to a length of 16in.
and 18in., but is usually smaller, especially when he
is looked for in the soup.
“N. or M.” : When the sentimentalist who
fetches along some dear old undesirable in a pot or
a cage, and lets it loose on his adopted country, has
received his due, an eye might be given to the travel-
ling circus which dumps its canvas on some weed-
ridden patch, and, having scattered a sowing of rub-
bish from its last camp, folds its tents like the Arabs
and moves on to repeat the operation elsewhere. The
obnoxious Cape weed that fringes so many Tas-
manian roadsides with its delicate black and yellow
stars, is an instance. It was introduced by a circus
coming from South Africa, and for some time hung
on unobtrusively where the seed had fallen. Later it
galloped all over the country, to the great exaspera-
tion of the Backbone. Cattle will eat it if nothing
better offers, but anyone eating the subsequent butter
wishes he hadn’t.
THE UNATTAINABLE.
THOUGHTFUL WILLIAM : “All the bloomin'
papers are saying motley's tight."
DISCONSOLATE JOE : "L ucky ciorg!"
Xela . I don’t know about fresh-water
turtle (tortoise) being sudden death to fowls, as
stated by “Briefless” (B. 21/IT/’l2) ; but I do
know that the reptile is considered a great delicacv
by Binghi. Often I have been fishing in company
with Black Brother, when one of the insects has
been yanked out of his native depths, and great has
been the joy of Black Brother. Binghi sets the
animal on its back on a fire of live coals. When
sufficiently broiled the meat is scooped out and eaten
with great relish. I could never come.to tackle one
myself, although, judging by the remarks of Mrs.
Bingi, when she happened to miss the entire, it is
a dish worth consideration.
THE MUDFLAT GOATS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The man from many lands and seas
Came up on one of Fowler’s boats
To Mudflat, famous for its trees,
The vigor of its southern breeze,
The size and number of its goats.
The stranger’s name was Biggs, and he
Put up at Cotter’s. In the bar
He said of Mudflat’s typhoon: “Gee!
You don’t call that veloeitee ?
I’ve known a wind out Texas thar
To blow so fast, compared with it
You wouldn't think this even quick.
The cove who put his head out—phit!
Was shaven clean in half a tick.”
Biggs thought the lofty Mudflat trees
Were pretty high, as saplings go.
Likewise: “I scoff at goats like these.
I’ve seen them jumpin’ thick as fleas
About the Tyrol Alps, you know.”
And then most fearsomely he lied
Of goats that climbed the mountain side.
Next morn aloft Biggs cast his eye
Up Cotter’s flag-pole wondrous tall.
He said: “My friend, why don't you fly
A flag?” and Cotter heaved a sigh.
“I did,” he said with gentle gall,
“But, sir, these Mudflat goats is sly.
They climbed the pole and ate ’em all!”
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


The Kid : —" HaAr! Vh&T'ioise
I Viebx ? Is. it" O'Malley Snori*7PjX
or s'KU 'tt)Vous}>
The activity and expansion of ’British
industries and trade, both domestic and
foreign, have constituted one of the
hotable features of the year. Recent
movements in rates of wages have all
been upward, the changes taking place
in September, for example, representing
an additional £15,400 in the weekly
amount of the waghs of 200,000 work-
people.
Jol'in Bull /Ay Word
* WorKs out" nearly one
'lv/oJ»enC«. \e.y
fte e>tjo vis' ol-1 of under
Free'tV&de. is 2^|»|>ajlrn^
nw
Vr
J lh , /i v fit)o SbectfcJ 1 *
a*S lb "$«.
\ »s *>°re
a bless 6 ** 'lo j
SW*sV> receive
Mi]s Victor!
I & 10Mr»7ey sV»|3——
" Don't" "ten •'its ttje
ma>rW times "h*ve I I woul^Wt"
ir ! "
But with the full sense of the seri,
ousness of the action taken in selecting
"Mr. Mauger, and of our own response
bility to the party, we must make it
Clear that Mr. Mauger's candidature can
receive no support in these columns,
>
L^e^l
\ T d
\ Tor
| Me*f~
I <5 e na}e"
/ £]ectT^i7
M^s u Itjold v/mrii»7|_^tTcKs.'^a s nyl7ow.
MELBOURNE’S PASSING SHOW.


Dull headache, brain in a muddle, easily irritated?
Take Stearns’ Headache Cure; one wafer brings a
smile. Easy to carry, easy to take.*
, A CIRCULATION, begotten of seden-
tary habits, leads to congestion of the brain, liver
and other organs. The best remedy for this unde-
sirable state of affairs is to stimulate the activity of
of ‘‘HTTwvAnJ y by a wineglassful
of HUNT ADI JANOS natural aperient water
every morning.*
AN EFFECTIVE REMEDY.
cleansing the 11^ 8 * eff - ective remedy for
pimples, blotches and other blemiS? th ?, • cause of
and is. 6d. Obtainable PnCe - 10^-
GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY.
HATS.
For
durability.
never had a doctor.
» irz Ich,a,‘lo,clor. 1 ch, a ,‘ l0 , cl0r . in >«'. aid that .ays
C& S,“S SKf, x, T*
“i- es iTi r 4 « y Js?
the result "is perfect ‘ “ 4
PERSONAL
ITEMS
W. T. LOT ON, Chairman of the W.A. Bank.
The. vacancy left in the Public Library at
Adelaide by the removal of W. H. Ifould to
Sydney, is to be filled by an Englishman,
Rutherford Parnell. He started his 14
years experience in the famous Bodleian at
Oxford, and is at present in charge at Croy-
don, a big suburban-London library. Inci-
dentally, he has lectured, edited a book-
magazine, and catalogued various private
collections, including Speaker Lowther’s
And he is only 30 now.
Ex-Canon (G)nash lias evidently deter-
mined to live down the trouble on the spot
where he reaped the whirlwind of his alleged
sowing (or billing and cooing, or whatever it
was). He is having premises in Barker’s-
road (the Hawthorn boundary line) over-
hauled and fitted up as a private school, and
he proposes to run the seminary himself.
After the rumpus had caused him to evacu-
ate the Haw-Hawthorn incumbency, he lab-
ored for a short time in the vineyard at Gee-
long and Sale, and then finally cut from the
pulpit.
Dr. Ashburton Thompson, Chief Medical
Officer of N. S. Wales, contemplates retir-
ing from the service at Easter. He is really
a very distinguished man, who doesn’t get
half the honor in his own country that he
has earned. When the bubonic plague broke
out in 1900, it was he who did most of the
grappling with the scourge, and his pub-
lished remarks on the rat and its extinction
have been adopted right through the world
as a text book. Apart from this, the most
notable thing about Ashburton Thompson is
his “fist” —he is the most execrable writer
the N.S.W. Public Service has ever seen.
The cables say the War Office has made
satisfactory tests of Major Cox-Taylor’s
automatic road chart and automatic range
finder. While a gunnery expert in the
forces in Sydney, Cox-Taylor spent most of
his spare days and dibs on plans and models.
Then he was sent north to the command of
the Thursday Island fort; and. with more
time to think, these two inventions arrived,
or were perfected. The road chart was
shown in Australia ; it was hitched on to a
motor-car, and an accusing finger traced the
course followed by the vehicle. Years ago
the same officer produced a range-finder
which is still used by the Australian De-
fence force; but in those days an officer was
barred from taking a penny for any inven-
tion of his relating to gunnery. Presum-
ably the new machine takes the range-find-
ing business further. Hutton is understood
to be Cox-Taylor’s sponsor on the other side
—and Hutton can still knock with some
vigor on the War Office counter.
AFTER THE UPHEA VAL.
LABOR WHALE : “Gee, but it made me feel
pretty sick, anyway.”
C. 11. T. Pinhey, who has fluttered out
in London, was an acceptable bird of fashion
in Macquarie-street, Sydney, 40 years ago.
A quarter of a century back he Lad almost
any Government job in N. S. Wales at his
bidding—when he liked to bid. But “Hand-
some Charley” preferred to dally. He loved
holidays on full pay, and Ministers mostly
agreed that he deserved them. His work lay
in the Registrar-General’s office, where per-
fumed notes and bouquets arrived by every
mail. Nevertheless, Parkes assured him that
he had all the qualities to fit him for the
Premiership. But Charley was happy where
he was._ The office, however, had grown into
the habit of creating sensations, and he found
himself one day under an unfriendly blue
light. Then came G. H. Reid and a cold
eye, and Charley was retired. He went to
England; but, according to accounts, he re-
tained all his loveliness and his ability to
induce the N.S.W. Government to place
lucrative jobs from time to time in his
hands.
Mostly about “Mr. James”:—
~,^r- James,” of the S. M. Herald, was presented
with a book of the portraits of the staff the other
day as a souvenir of his 60th year in the business.
Ihe Herald nowadays is owned by three men
“Mr. James” and his two sons, both non-practising
barristers. “Mr. James’s” father was “old John,”
who, with C. Kemp, bought the paper from Ward
Stephens, F. M. Stokes and W. McGarvie. The
founders called it the Sydney Herald ; the paper
having been turned into a daily just before they
bought it, Kemp and Fairfax changed the name to
the S. M. Herald. Kemp had been a reporter—or
rather, the reporter—on the paper; John Fairfax’
who had made a commercial failure of things in
England, came out and got into the Public Library
and did odd jobs in the printing office in his spare
time. He wasn’t anything of a literary man nor
was Mr. James” after him; but he was shrewd
and won the public’s confidence. And his reputa-
tion went up still higher when, after being a few
years in business, he took a trip to England
rounded up his old creditors, and paid them in full!
James was turned on to the mechanical side
ot the. paper as a youngster, and worked for some
time in the office as a compositor. Heney the
editor, who made the presentation the other ’ day
also followed his father into the office. He began
as . a , c ° p y4 l °H er in the reading closet; his father
who had been in the composing room, finished up in
the library, where in the old days he amused himself
writing up the biographies of public men he judged
were booked for early death.
Will Dyson’s cartoons in London Daily
Herald, for one of which the artist is
threatened with lesc-majestc, gave the
Herald such a buck-up that the Labor daily,
which was visibly tottering, seems to have
made up its mind to stay. The Australian
made his best hit yet in the grandmother
country with these daily cartoons, with the
result that many other proprietaries have
been out after him lately. But Dyson stays
with the Daily Herald because he likes the
job.
WHEN JUDGES SMILE.
Their Honors Hodges, Madden, Hood and Cussen—snapped at a Vic. “smoker .”
A. J. Nettlefold, who sold out of a Hobart
business and put the money into the Post,
Tasmania’s first Labor daily, is retiring from
the control of the paper, after 4j years’ good
service. The Labor paper is expected to
keep a bit ahead of the party. Probably
Nettlefold found it quite hard enough to keep
level with it.
There were not many men
better known in nor’-west N. S.
Wales than Henry Lowcock,
who passed out at Mil Ridge,
on December 19. He was a
typical station-manager of the
old school; coming originally
from North Devon, the only
part of Britain where the wild
stag is still hunted on horse-
back, there was a dash of the
primeval savage in him. All
through his 45 years in the
Gunnedah district he was
closely identified with Pullam-
ing station, which still shuts in
the town on one side. For nearly
30 years of the time he man-
aged it in the strenuous old-fashioned style ;
and, in spite of his eccentricities and ex-
cesses, he filled a large space in what passes
tor public opinion in those parts.
The movement in Adelaide for a memorial
to Lorenzo Young, who trained and caned
so many of to-day’s leading citizens, has led
to a similar one in honor of Thomas Caterer
This veteran is. happily, still 011 deck, and
Ins old boys of half a century back have
I anded him a cheque with some hearty
-neeches. He is father of T. A. Caterer, of
t. I eter s College and the S.A. Cricket
Association. By the way. S. Australia’s
best-known private school has just closed its
doors It was at the German village of
Hahndorf, and in its half-century of exist-
ence has had only two heads, Boehm and
Byard.
Thirty years ago, John Horton, then a
young man, met John Crow. They decided
to link their fortunes, and set out in quest
of cedar in the Dorrigo (N.S.W.) scrub.
lor a quarter of a century these men re-
mained partners in every undertaking, fast
triends and apparently confirmed bachelors
I hen all of a sudden Horton broke the spell
by taking in a third partner—a selector’s
daughter, ror six or seven years everything
went on well, until a few weeks ago' Crow
drove into Dorrigo township to seek medical
advice He burely got there before he handed
in his final accounts. The funeral was just
over when Horton rode a young brumby into
the town On the way home the nag took
flight and bolted, threw its rider, and old
bordoi Horton followed his mate across the
Concerning the first Australian Smith-
Govern ment Librarian has “discovered”
Lsaac Snnth, a seaman who lived to be an admiral
and the Daceyville builders meditate naming a street
lot
because he couldn’t gr/as the shin’s pa ( tly
IS -S
and the Smiths here ever a? h, ,ore ’
afterwards Cook made a middy of him to fi'Tl
place of poor John Bootie, deceased ’ Hof ’j le
voyage was finished young Smfth w. Before . the
master’s mate. He went with j j appointed
law on the next big and thenTrt + cousin ‘ in-
his career on his own became In ™ ft to Pursue
a post-captain, and retired „ e ’, ln c ? u ! se °f Hme,
his relative was left a widow an? r Si lra '' When
house with her until he d°>d leath^ 6 ®*’, he kept
decent record. But Isaac SrcHm v”’ clean and
a line in historv lies in the fact^thn+’if* 684 Cl 2 im to
Chidley, whom the N.S.W. authorities
pushed into a lunatic asylum lately and then
pulled out again, is in trouble once more
The temptation to exhibit his legs to the
holiday crowd at Christmas time, or a burn-
ing desire to convert Billjim to his peculiar
views, seems to have been too much for him.
This time the police prosecute him for his
speeches, and say they don’t object to his
modified Greek dress—which is very wise
of the police in view of their own absurd
practice of wearing one white regulation
glove on the hand and the other in the air.
The new Westralian University has ap-
pointed six professors, four of whom are
Australians and one a Canadian. Walter
Murdoch, lecturer in English Literature at
Melb. Uni., gets the English chair; Wool-
nough, of Sydney, the veteran David’s white-
haired boy, is Geology ; \v illsmore, of Mel-
bourne, now Professor Ramsay’s assistant
in London, is Chemistry; and Whitfeld, who
has been unsuccessfully trying to make
money for Sydney Uni. graduates and under-
graduates at a Black Range (W.A.) mine,
takes Mining and Engineering. The one
Britisher is the infant of the crowd—a
Scotchman, of course, named Ross, a young
mathematical prodigy of 29.
“Snowy” Baker, Sydney’s best-known
physical-culturist, has bought the Stadium—
the place that was originally rushed up for
the Burns-Johnson fight—for, it is said,
£30,000. H. D. Mclntosh was the seller.
Mclntosh made a previous attempt to sell
out, but didn’t have as much luck that
time. It was about three years ago, just
when the company-floating boom had got
nicely started in Sydney. There seemed to
be big profits in the thing, and a little syn-
dicate, mostly of shipping people, underwrote
a company to buy the place. They stipu-
lated that a certain number of shares —a
mere handful—should be taken by the public
betore they (the syndicators) could be called
upon to take up the balance. The prospec-
tus was issued ; but, in spite of the gaudy
figures, not more than a few hundred shares
were applied for. It was a wholly unex-
pected and most dismal frost. The under-
writing syndicate looked blue; what it
dreaded was that Mclntosh would drop in
applications for the necessary number of
s lares and throw the balance on the under-
wnters. But Mclntosh proved a “sport”:
decl \^ d to break the contract in the
riJ hl e v eep ! Eg , it in the lett er, handed
in “ derw «ter> back their cheques and kept
the thing on his own shoulders.
THE EXPANDING CIRCLE.
DE WITT : "Well , oid chap, here's 1913, and
We ’ 6 another year older and another
year richer."
A. D. POSE: "Alas, yes ; and another inch
round the belt.”
ihe first President of S.A.’s new Indus-
nal Arbitration Court, under the Act of
ast session, is to be Alexander Buchanan,
already I resident of the Court of Industrial
1ii Peal n and an actin S-Judge of the Su-
durine Snd?' H tter P lace he has filled
Sugar* Si G . ordon s absence, first on the
but GorrW, 00 ; and then in ill-health;
again in M 9 fif eC S j to back in harness
Judae w rch Ai a ? d , the need for a fourth
Buchanan though much discussed,
new Dost i us .t the man for the
Soneei and nfr St T te<l in life as an auc-
(in narfn i^ ter becoming a sound lawyer
Mann b a f L P a %\ lh the late Charles
business derail tP years of figures and
Court aS Master of S-A.’s Supreme
FLEAS!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Hon. Chas. Rothschild, son of the late Lord
Rothschild, has the biggest collection of fleas in the
world....He offers big money for new kinds.
When the Bulgar has his foeman by the throat;
When the tiger and the Serb have tasted blood;
When the Turk has seen them sink his little boat,
And tread the name of Islam in the mud ;
When Europe finds her day of days approach,
And feels a fearful knocking in the knees,
Let us calm ourselves with this —whatever goes
amiss
We yet have got a Rothschild trapping fleas.
When the German swells his navy in the North,
And Britain finds she’s forced to do the same;
When the Russian to the Austrian bellows forth:
“Have a care! That is mine, the Turkey game!”
When all the grass is crimson on the hills,
And Dreadnoughts belch a death-rain o’er the seas;
When the tramp of armtid men pours a thunder down
the glen—
Hurrah! The Truly Great are trapping fleas!
When in London rise the Legion of the Lost
And shake a fatted empire to the core;
When the smoke of burning cities tempest-tossed
Rolls up in hell and fury to your door;
When famine has beleaguered ev’ry street,
And Want, the wolf, is sniffing down the breeze,
One comfort have we left, in our bitter mood,
bereft—
We’ve always got a market for our fleas.
For whether they be paunchy ones or lean,
And whether they be fleet of foot or slow,
And whether they be mettlesome or mean,
And whether they be highly bred or low,
Our Rothschild’s always ready with his cash
And if yohr nimble samples chance to plead,.,
You cannot say but what he’ll enrich you on the
spot
For bringing him a rarity in fleas.
If Nero took a pleasure in old Rome,
In fiddling while they burnt the city down,
What harm, then, if a gentleman at home
Should fatten up the vermin of the town?
It may be that he feels within his breast
A fine affinity for such as these,
And he feeds them with a zest in the knowledge
that the best
That is in him is a deathless love of fleas.
QUEENSLAND.
PHILANDER F.


®0!
A.'—
>u i'
lIMHru
I
übuiW
A^\
VNI*
p
m
V '
4^r
p
■: i
w
a
r-*~
\\'
v
s'**
rw^ms.
\
\<sr
KWitimm
V&i
4#
i
I
8
i
? Jil^r
j -
%
&
m
mi
IS
jj
tmiiim
irt
“VICE-REGAL”
TOBACCO and
CIGARETTES
“VICE-REGAL”
Flavour is Distinctive,
Original, Incomparable
in the form of Cigarettes
or Smoking Mixture.
“VICEREGAL”
represents the highest class of
Finest Virginia Leaf.
A Smooth, Mild and Mellow
Smoke.
The Cigarettes are in 6d. Packets— lvory Tips.
The Smoking Mixture in loz. and 2oz. Patent Airtight Tins;
two strengths: Medium and Full.
The Famous
Brand of
W. D. & H. 0. WILLS.


WORTHINGTON PUMP COMPANY LTD
Ca^D P E S NSE T R5 A and PLMPS -
OAS PLANTS. MINE VENTILATINfi P»4 ,n° IL J NGINES and
FEED WATER HEATERS * E SmAM
For Catalogues and
Information apply—
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY
urb.«, c°Med.oDy Pumps, B.owers, Fans, etc.
C. A. PARSONS 8 CO., Newcastle on T
b 0«
BnUb.k;
Perth.
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
The Australasian Temperance and
General Mutual Life Assurance Society, Ltd.: —
Ordinary Life Department.
Added to Total
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
1901. . £61,872 £19,909 £24,725 £17,238 £253,865
1902.. 73,782 18,640 24,559 30,583 284,448
1903.. 73,983 19,585 28,263 26,135 310,583
1904.. 79,779 18,302 29,285 32,192 342,775
1905.. 89,738 18,894 36,071 34,773 377,548
1906.. 98,666 21,026 38,925 38,715 416,263
1907.. 108,447 21,451 39,616 47,380 463,643
1908.. 130,384 29,470 44,751 56,163 519,806
1909.. 160,946 44,733 49,412 66,801 586,607
1910.. 177,578 40,810 53,658 83,110 669,717
1911.. 189,794 31,236 52,071 106,487 776,204
1912.. 203,467 32,286 63,938 107,243 883,447
Industrial Life Department.
Added to Total
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
1901.. £40,198 £26,938 £7,724 £5,536 £24,812
1902.. 53,597 35,444 8,294 9,859 34,671
1903.. 69,547 46,230 8,925 14,392 49,063
1904.. 82,742 48,595 13,365 20,782 69,845
1905.. 103,499 54,761 14,213 34,525 104,370
1906.. 118,433 58,833 16,444 43,156 147,526
1907.. 124,703 52,289 16,129 56,285 203,811
1908.. 134,723 64,402 22,320 48,001 251,812
1909.. 145,757 64,954 34,189 46.614 298,426
1910.. 155,333 59,359 40,129 55,845 354,271
1911.. 170,358 61,002 50,537 58,819 413,090
1912.. 194,650 71,308 56,505 66.837 479,927
Accident Branch.
Added to Total
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
1907.. £2477 £1092 £1177 £2OB £2OB
1908.. 3345 1785 1474 86 294
Taken from
Funds.
1909.. 3849 2311 1542 4 290
Added to
Funds.
1910.. 4218 2814 1310 94 384
Taken from
Funds.
1911.. 4751 3286 1474 9 375
1912.. 4678 2891 1803 16 359
This office once more shows improved figures. A
few years ago it would probably have died if it could
have been bothered with a funeral. You can pretty
well tell what sort of an office it was from the pro-
gress it didn’t make. In 1901 it had been in exist-
ence 25 years, yet it then had funds of barely quarter
of a million. In early days it was run by nice old
gentlemen with long beards and Rechabitish tenden-
cies, not chosen for their capacity as business organ-
isers so much as for their devotion to cold water.
The results were just what might have been ex-
pected. The time came, however, when the manage-
ment turned the best part of a somersault. The
management left off its habit of smelling the breath
of every canvasser, etc., every morning and afternoon.
It started out on a hustle for new business, and
established an Industrial branch to help to get it.
It only used its Temperance as bait; it told the
gentle soaker that he could reap some of the advan-
tages of Cold Water without having to go through
the painful ordeal of drinking the stuff. It, more-
over, adopted a set of tables which may work out
all right, though there are actuaries who regard
them as very venturesome. This is a case, of course,
where doctors differ. The T. and G. advisers say
that, on such and such a premium, it can afford to
promise such and such a result. There is nobody
who can say definitely that they can’t do it. A
dozen things may help them. For instance, money
promises to earn more interest than it did a few
years ago, and that, for one thing, will help insurance
offices to carry out contracts which they oouldn’t
otherwise perform, or pay bonuses which they
couldn’t otherwise attain.
The remarks just made will explain some of the
very swift progress shown in the tables—especially
the first two—printed above. From £53,597 in
1902, the Industrial income has taken the express
to £194,650 in 1912. The Ordinary department has
been a great gainer by the Industrial’s activity.
The T. and G. naturally makes a special appeal to
the professed Rechabite ; and the professed working-
man Rechabite naturally puts more money into the
stocking than him whose wages fatten Bung.
Whether he gets equal joy out of life is not the
question now. Once the Industrial canvasser has
roped him in, it is thus very likelv an easier job
than usual to presently pass him on'to the Ordinary
department. Some strong factor is certainly at work
to reduce the expense rate, which has been hauled
down in a most admirable manner. Here are the
figures for a few years past
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
Sept., Ordinary. Industrial. Accident.
1901.. £32 3 7 p.c. £67 0 3 p.c.
1902.. 25 5 3 „ 66 2 7 '
1903.. 26 9 5 „ 66 9 5 „
1904.. 22 18 10 „ 58 14 7 „
1905 . 21 1 1 „ 52 18 2 _
1906.. 21 6 3 „ 49 13 7
1907.. 19 15 7 „ 4118 7 „ £44 1 Bpc
1908.. 22 12 0 „ 47 16 1 „ 53 7 3
1909.. 27 15 9 „ 44 11 3 „ 58 10 5 ”
1910.. 22 19 7 „ 38 4 4 „ 66 14 3
1911.. 16 92 „ 35 16 2 „ 69 3 3
1912.. 15 17 4,, 36 12 8 „ 61 16 0
In comparing these with the figures of some other
offices, one thing must, however, be kept in mind:
in the T. and G.’s accounts interest and net rents are
shown. That is to say, rates and taxes on property
not included with the disclosed outgoings.
Whether they are inched or not doesn’t really
matter much as long as the practice is uniform, so
that fair comparisons may be made. This is a
matter which the new Insurance Law, when it
arrives, will no doubt see to.
From one point of view the Ordinary rate is better
even than it looks in the foregoing table. Obviously
the real quality of an expense rate depends on how
much new business has been got. In this respect the
■Y G. shows up very well indeed. Assuming
that the old or renewal business costs 7 pc then
the new business during the past year was drae for
/4.b p.c. of the first-year premiums. In 1910 the
rate, on the same reckoning, was 76 p.c. ; in 1911
75 p.c. Ten or 15 years ago this would have looked
an incredible figure for the T. and G. to attain
h ° wever - one other matter which affects an
expense rate, and may make it either better or
worse than it looks. That is the persistence of the
*v- th< L end of 1910 - in th e Ordinary de
Sr 18 °®K e ha , d 37 ' 948 P°l ici « outstanding.
In 1911 the number of new ones issued was •
“ 1912. 10,262 ; total of the three, 57 S?! Yet at
the end of 1912 only 42,175 were in existence. In
the two years 19,927 new policies had been written
but no less than 15.700 had ceased to exist for some
reason or other; they had either been forfeited
(lapsed) or become claims. A further not verv
satisfactory feature is the tremendous disproportion
of endowment policies. This shows the main dis-
tribution of the business: —
1910. 1912. Increase.
Whole life .. .. 2,943 3,006 63
Endowment insurance . . 15,087 1590
Endowments .. .. 16,172 18,197 2025
This isn’t good. Endowment insurance is all very
well: but more often than not the right thing for
the insurer to do —in the case, for instance, of a
young man of small or no means, married or about to
marry—is to get the last penny of insurance pos-
sible for the money he pays; and that means, of
course, a whole-life policy. After a young man has
made provision for his widow in case of his death,
he may then reasonably set about making provision
for his old age. And there are other considerations
of a different character. For instance, one may
never expect the bonuses from an office which goes in
very largely for endowments to be as big as those
from one whose policies are largely whole-life.
Plainly, while the former office is just as liable to
be hit bv a death claim within the first few years
of the life of the policy, the endowment policy must
be paid out at a certain age, and the office thus de-
rives no benefit from the extra longevity of any
insurer.
Interest earnings are very fair. On the average
funds they show up as follows:
1905 .. £4 10 6 p.c. ! 1909 .. £4 10 3 p.c.
1906 . . 4 9 1 „ | 1910 .. 410 6 „
1907 .. 4 9 2 „ j 1911 .. 410 9 „
1908 . . 4 9 7 „ I 1912 .. 411 0 „
The assets, as at September 30. totalled £1,460,365,
of which a very respectable £503,960 was in Govern-
ment and municipal securities (lumped together,
which they shouldn’t be) ; £514,420 was on mort-
gage. Properties represent £205.300, or 14 p.c. of
the total. It is too much ; but the directors excuse
themselves by saying that it has been lately neces-
sary to procure more commodious premises in Sydney
and Adelaide.
* * * ♦
The Mutual Fiee Insurance Co. of
Tasmania (Launceston, Tasmania) :
Net Dividends and Added to Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves, serves.
1901.. £3793 7 p.e. = £2756 £1037 £22.323
1902.. 4541 7 „ „ 2756 1785 24,108
1903.. 5894 8 „ ~ 3150 2744 26,852
1904.. 5474 8 „ ~ 3150 2324 29,176
1905.. 3876 8 ~ „ 3150 726 29,902
1906.. 3781 8 ~ ~ 3150 631 30,533
1907.. 5697 8 „ ~ 3150 2547 33,080
1908.. 4968 9 „ „ 3544 1424 34,5"4
1909.. 5520 10 ~ „ 3937 1583 36,087
1910.. 4531 10 „ ~ 3984 547 36,634
1911.. 4423 10 „ „ 3937 486 37,120
1912.. 4695 10 ~ ~ 3937 758 37,878
The income from investments was £3588, or
enough to pay 9 p.c. on the paid capital, so that
only about 1 p.c. had to come out of the under-
writing profit; and yet only a poor little £758
was added to reserves. This shows that the under-
writing profit is very small; and so it has been for
several years. This explains why:—
Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1900.. £4785 £1774 £2143 37‘1 p.c. 44 ‘8 p.c.
1905.. 5844 2959 2248 50 6 „ 38‘4 ~
1907.. 6043 1043 2398 172 „ 39'7 ~
1908.. 6233 2263 2401 36'3 „ 38'5 „
1909.. 6352 1651 2496 25‘9 ~ 39-3 „
1910.. 6220 2206 2576 35‘4 „ 41‘4 ,
1911.. 6135 2267 2989 36 9 „ 48'7
1912.. 6359 1967 3266 30 9 „ 513 „
Thus oyer half the premium income has been ab-
sorbed in working exes, during the past year. And
it is not as though the co. was getting any or much
new business ; the income is practically the same as
it was in 1909. The trouble, no doubt, is that the
co. confines itself to Tasmania ; and Tasmania is the
most unprogressive speck of Australia. Probably it
doubts whether it could do any business if it dropped
itself down among the big concerns of the more go-
ahead parts of the Commonwealth. It depends, no
doubt, on the management; but it is worth noting
that the Australian co. with the biggest premium
income is the Queensland Insurance Co., which was
bom in North Queensland, and was game a few
years back to set out in pursuit of an all-Australian
connection. Probably, the Tasmanian Mutual argues
that a 10 p.c. div. isn’t to be sneezed at, and that
well enough is a good thing to leave alone; but
that’s a poor motto for a young country where so
much development is possible. As to the stability
of the co. nobody need have any doubt. Capital
and reserves total £75,378 (reserves have just crept
ahead of the paid capital) ; so the co. could meet a
crop of claims 35 times greater than the annual
average for the past few years. If it did five times
as much business, on its present funds, this paper
wouldn’t be inclined to say that it was over-trading.
* * * *
The Haymabket Permanent Land,
Building and Investment Co. (Sydney) :
Written To Re- Re-
Nov 7., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1900.. £2344 3 p.c. =£2201 £143 £41,065
1901.. 2369 3 „,, 2271 98 41 163
1902.. 2922 3 ~ „ 2308 614 41 777
1903.. 2590 3 „ „ 2477 - 113 41,890
1904.. 3044 3 ~ ~ 2584 460 42,350
1905.. 3017 3 ~ ~ 2595 422 42 772
1906.. 3349 3£ „ „ 3061 288 43,060
1907.. 3872 4 „ „ 3534 £lO,OOO 33,398
1908.. 4856 4 „,, 3587 1,000 269 33,667
1909.. 4142 4 „ „ 3599 543 34,210
1910.. 7403 5J „ „ 4958 2445 36,655
1911.. 7071 6 ~ „ 5417 17,836 20,473
1912.. 7839 7 ~ ~ 6340 1499 21,972
If The Bulletin said that this co. used to issue
false balance-sheets, somebody would probably feel
hurt. Mr. Thomas Henley, who besides being a
director is also an M.L.A., would know that the re-
mark was unparliamentary, and would expect this
paper to substitute for it the statement that the
balance-sheet said one thing and meant another
When the co. formerly said it had £l, it meant that
it had 10s. or thereabouts, so far as one can guess.
A few favored insiders knew the position and how
the thing was shaping; the mere common or garden
variety of shareholder didn’t. The present accounts
may tell the troth, and it may be a fact that the co
has its capital intact and £21,972 to the good.
But the figures were obviously so absurd for years
that one doesn t know whether to believe them now
or not.
The co doesn’t confine itself to city and suburban
property-dealing, but bought at least one considerable
country estate—Furracabad, near Glen Innes. For
many this must have been a poor investment-
cSi 1 u a \i no d ° ubt been a bit better of late.
btUl, though the co. has been steadilv offering the
farms, the high prices of the past three years don’t
seem to have been high enough to induce" the co. to
sell; which suggests that the co. paid an extravagant
£?1? rt°B ™ %r° P l rt Vi, Maybe high valuef for fa ™s
during m 2. S 6 WaS S diStiDCt weaken ' n S
next*-— moVement s labilities and assets are shown
Liabilities.
Nov., Nov., Mav, Nov..
„ ■, , 1900. 1911. 1912. 1912
Capital ..£75,176 £90,428 £90,468 £9O 696
Deposits .. 50,689 55,596 61,160 53’768
2™ rdr * ft .. •• 3,097 15,009 11,049 10 330
Other debts .. 42,462 52,766 56,218 S^S
Assets.
Advances, etc. 42,003 96,126 110,918 120 845
Other P proper 6S 57 ’ B ° 3 34 ’ 359 35 ’ 059
" 10 7’lno 105> H 9 96 ’ 140 83 ’ 363
„ as “ , ; • 7,209 978 1,573 1,197
- vances’’ include balances unpaid on properties
In the V** years the property items have
been reduced by £56,592, most of it during the
past three or four years; the advances, etc., na\e
grown by £78,842. The money for the latter busi-
ness has been got mostly from the sale of assets, but
partly from new capital. The advances, etc., now
exceed the book value of the co.’s properties ; J—
vears ago the properties were nearly four times
greater than the advances, etc. The exchange must be
an improvement ; it no doubt means the shifting ot a
good deal of dead asests and the substitution of some-
thing with life in them. But what the assets-—-
especially the property assets —are really worth, this
paper wouldn’t venture to say. If the accounts
hadn’t been a mere joke for so long, one would be
inclined to say, from the interest return, that they
had been now written down to about true values.
Or rather present values ; whether present values are
true values is quite another matter.
* * * *
The People’s Prudential Assurance
Co. (Sidney) :
Expenses Total Assur-
and Divi- Out- ance
Aug., Income. Claims, dends. g ings. Fund.
1901 ..£12,255 £5517 £5933 £11,450 £1,821
1902 . . 12,566 5019 6537 11,556 2,831
1903 .. 12,684 4484 6706 11,190 4,325
1904 .. 13,425 5273 6689 11,962 5,788
1905 . . 13,956 5467 7081 12,548 7,196
1906 . . 14,738 5871 7060 12,931 9,003
1907 .. 15,919 6291 7401 13,692 11,230
1908 .. 17,796 7041 8094 15,135 13,891
1909 .. 18.644 7418 8375 15,793 16,742
1910 .. 19,586 8291 8443 16,734 19,594
1911 . . 21,165 8737 8997 17,734 23,025
1912 . . 22,389 8144 9633 17,777 27,637
This little concern, with a capital of £lO.OOO (less
a few pounds of calls unpaid) deals in various small
side-lines of insurance. Most of the policies carry
some form of medical benefit, and approximately half
of the total outgoings under the heading of “claims”
went in payment of doctors and chemists. Expenses
are naturally very heavy; compared with the income
they run this way:—
1905 .. £5O 14 9 p.c. 1909 .. £44 18 4 p.c.
1906 .. 47 18 0 „ 1910 .. 43 2 2 „
1907 .. 46 9 9 „ 1911 .. 42 10 2 „
1908 .. 45 9 8 „ 1912 .. 43 0 6 „
Expenses include dividends, which for the past year
were at the rate of 6J p.c. (the extra \ p.c. is to
about square the income tax). In view of the very
heavy expense rate, it is probable that most of
the policyholders could do better as members of a
good friendly society. But the friendly society won’t
chase up its subscriptions like this co.’s canvassers
doubtless do; wherefore The Bulletin hesitates to
throw a brick at the co., in spite of the 43 p.c. ex-
pense rate. The funds are nearly all in Government
securities and loans (mostly on mortgage) ; and
though, from the various and unusual nature of the
contracts, it is impossible to express a decided
opinion, it seems highly probable that the co. is
quite sound.
Bendigo Mutual Permanent Land and
Building Society (Bendigo, Vic.): —
Net Added to Be-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1901 .. £2641 5 p.c. = £2461 £lBO £21,476
1902 .. 2310 5 „ „ 2323 21,463
1903 .. 1905 5,, ~ 2151 21,217
1904 .. 1611 5£ „ „ 2309 20,519
1905 .. 2124 6,, ~ 2407 20,236
1906 .. 3527 6i „ „ 2633 894 21,130
1907 .. 3247 6£ „ „ 2909 338 21,468
1908 .. 3572 6j ~ ~ 3160 412 21,880
1909 .. 4538 6j „,, 3356 1182 23,062
1910 .. 3907 7,, ~ 3661 246 23,308
1911 .. 3769 6J ~ ~ 3639 130 23 438
1912 „ 3901 6J ~ „ 3850 51 23,489
Some of the figures in the last line are as near to
it as this paper can guess; and it is mostlv a
matter of guessing, because the capital varies, 'and
some unknown part of it may carry the dividend
for only a few days. Of the reserves £22,473 is
to the credit of a contingency account, to provide
against probable losses; and this fund has been
rather heavily drawn on during the year:—
Gross Written off Con- Net
Profit, tingencv Fund. Profit.
1904 .. £3431 £lB2O £l6ll
1905 .. 3474 1350 2124
1906 .. 3946 419 3527
1907 .. 4363 1116 3247
1908 .. 4333 761 3572
1909 .. 4732 194 4538
1910 .. 4400 493 3907
1911 .. 4559 790 3769
1912 .. 5031 1130 3901
Still, even now, the fund is of a satisfactory size in
proportion to the risks. The latter are shown next
along with some other things:—
„ . , 1900. 1910. 1911. 1912.
Capital .. .. £52,064 £54,713 £58,461 £62,086
Deposits and other
debts .. .. 79.063 80,886 83,083 83,970
Advances .. .. 138,838 138,220 144,413 153 173
Properties.. .. 14,519 16,463 16,463 16A67
£ a ® h 1.228 7,569 7,574 3,615
Other assets .. 318 131 146 140
Thus there is a reserve of £23,489 to protect the
capital against the depreciation of advances valued
at £153,173 and a few other shrinkable assets
Bendigo property values, like those of every other
mining town, are liable to big and rapid movements-
but it would take a very serious slump to encroach
on the capital in this case. And it would take a
positive catastrophe to wipe out the capital as well
as the reserves and encroach on the deposits. On
the whole, the outlook for building societies mav be
regarded as a bit better than it was. The Savings
Banks have been lending money to house-builders at
a low rate—very properly, considering the object and
the security Now they are putting up both the
borrowing and the lending rate, and, directly and in-
directly, the competition with the building soci-
eties will therefore be a trifle less keen.
* * *
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson and
Co., druggists, etc. (Sydney) :
Profits. Dividends. serves serves
Feb., 1905.. £6,143 10 p.c. = £6OOO £143 1 o 055
Aug., 1905.. 5,959 10 „ „ 6,000 _ 7
Feb., 1906.. 7,124 10 6,000 1194 s’lqs
Aug.. 1906.. 6,338 10 „„ 6 000 338
Feb., 1907.. 6,390 10 ” 6 000
Aug., 1907.. 6,730 10 6so ?|o X
Feb., 1908.. 6,198 10 „„ « 000 193 I’-oa
Aug., 1908.. 8,232 10 „ „ 6,000 9->3* fwfi
Feb., 1909.. 10,780 15 „„ 9 000 1780 88M
Aug., 1909.. 11,214 15 9 000 2->l4 l’S
Feb. mo.. H,020 15 „„ 9,000 2090 £*2o
Aug., 1910.. 11,016 15 „ „ 9,000 "oifi if’n^
Feb., 1911.. 11,085 15 9,000 l7’m
Aug., 1911.. 11,988 15 „ 9,000 298 S
Feb., 1912.. 16,033 25 ” 15 £» •
Aug., 1912.. 14,634 20 ~,, 12,000 2634 £3*796
This belated table is dropped in there mainly ’for
purposes of record. The Bulletin frequently
pointed out in past years that the co was
15* 20* and str <«g Position, and fi
15, 20 and 25 p.c divs. are the fruits thereof The
reserves are probably much larger (and JS,
quently the profits have been much great!) thfn
the accounts show. Look at this: s er l tnan
Aug.,
Liabilities .. .. . a £ifi°QQß *912.
Assets other than stock, ’ £40,175
Pl3nt ’ 6tC 55,470 124,778
Surplus .. .. £38,474 £B4 603
So, if the stock, plant and fixtures are worth what
they were seven years ago, the co he<riH~ h t
its big dividends, has got £46 190 payln g
Whether the stock, plant and ’fixn,r« goo±
»h«t were
nf course know; but the chances are that the co.
hfn’t starving its shelves. The profits don’t look like
it, anyway. * * *
* *
The Brisbane Permanent Building
and Banking Co: —
Dividends and Written To Re- Re-
Aug Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves. serves.
19(X>.’. £5618 3| p.c. =£4464 £315 £839 £18,040
IQOI 0193 4 4/58 567 868 ]8,90g
190-V 5448 4 ” ~ 4761 640 47 18,955
1903 4808 4 » 4763 394 18,606
1904 4*97 31 , 3899 284 44 18,650
1905' 2867 Nil 16,322 5,195
1353 Nil 5 * 2 jT” 6,006
£24 393 capital written off and added to
’ r on son
reserves .. • •• •• oo,o»»
£22,874 written off properties .. .. 7,525
1907 1970 2 p.c. = 1746 J,lBl 6,568
1908 2633 2 ~ ~ 1746 1,632 5,823
1909 ' 3800 3 2620 828 352 6,175
]9W" 5716 4 „ 3495 - 2221 8,396
1911 5957 4i „ 3714 550 1693 10,089
1912.'.’ 7370 4„ „ 4151 - 3219 13,308
The co. paid at the rate of 4} p.c. p.a. for the first
six months and 5 p.c. for the second. It had a
tough struggle in past years; but, after it had pulled
itself a good wav out of the mud, a run of fine
seasons and fine prices in Queensland lifted it the
rest of the way. There may be a little of the mud
still sticking, but it doesn’t seem to be much. Twelve
months ago the big item read like this—- Advances
on mortgages, properties in possession and freeholds,
£211,648.” Now there is this —Advances on mort-
gage, ’£228,358 ; freeholds, £7484., It looks as
though properties in possession don't count now.
Whatever thev amount to, they have no doubt been
written down so severely that they are probably not
overvalued. One would at least judge so from the
fact that “interest and net rents received” total
£15,191 for the vear, which is a shade over 6 p.c.
on the average of the total assets, including liquid
assets. Brisbane is, however, passing through some-
thing like a boom, and it is just at such times that bad
debts are made in this line of business—as the State’s
new Workers’ Dwellings Board may find out presently
if it doesn’t move along with great caution. The
Brisbane Permanent Building and Banking Co. may,
of course, lose money, too ; but its conduct during the
past few years strongly suggests that it has given
Prudence a seat on the Board.
* * * *
At the end of its fiscal year Maoriland’s
Public Trust Office had estates valued at £9,493,959
in hand. This, however, is not all private property
passed on to the office for administration. For in-
stance, £1,991,451 is represented by sinking funds.
The Dominion hasn’t many such funds for the ex-
tinction of its excessive debt, but such as it has the
Public Trust Office controls. Public pension funds
(£812,976) are also in its keeping; likewise the
estates of confinees in mental hospitals. Under wills
and similar trusts the office manages £3,619,753
worth of property; the progress in this respect has
been as follows: —
1907 .. £2,608,942 11910 .. £2,803,724
1908 . . 2,000j107 1911 . . 3,257,297
1909 .. 2,504,614 I 1912 .. 3,619,753
This Public Trust Office does something which the
private trustee co. has so far not ventured upon,
though there is no reason why it shouldn’t; it will
guarantee a trust estate's capital and interest if it
is permitted to choose the investments. The interest
is fixed from time to time by the Governor-in-
Council, and is at present 4$ p.c. net up to £3OOO
and 4 p.c. net in excess of that amount. In prac-
tice, all, or very nearly all, the trust money thus
guaranteed is borrowed by the State. If" trust
money isn’t available for investment in that way, the
estate takes the risk of loss, in the usual manner,
and the whole net interest earned belongs to the
estate. If any money is earned in excess of the
guaranteed interest, in cases where the estate is
handed over absolutely, it belongs to the Trust Office,
which puts it to a reserve to meet contingencies.
The profit from all sources last year was £25.919.
and the total accumulations are now £151,408.
* * * *
As mentioned last week, the Common-
wealth Insurance Bill, which was introduced just
before the session ended, does not provide for the
payment of surrender values in cash on demand. In
this, as in every other important particular, the Bill
follows the recommendations of the Insurance Com-
mission (Justice Hood and G. H. Knibbs, Govern-
ment statist). The Commissioners thought that
guaranteed surrender values were both inequitable
and unwise—inequitable because the insurance co.
would be held to its part of the contract, while the
policyholder would have the right to vary his; un-
wise because (for one reason) the cos. would have to
hold large cash reserves, which would reduce their
interest earnings And quite rightlv they added
, n a ?, a guaranteed surrender value might sometimes
unduly tempt the policyholder to terminate a con-
tract whose continuance would be far better for him
and t ls topfiy- , A!1 . the same, in some lives there
“ Vi? 16 hen l( ; ls of supreme importance that
Lh? to +N II raise e ash "r° f v supreme importance not
£ o t 0 the man himself, but to his familv. And
fT/^cr a , man should not be tempted to lightly sacri-
fice or imperil his insurance, he at least should have
some protection from the law, and it should not be
paid h out n £r^r lle £io iSCret iv n ° f the co ' whether it
Ve,n I, 1 & vlz rSi, r s ro sSd"
'“'—"W'* “« <« the W
* * * *
been I kill i id' C ?he idered N * S * W - Gas having
in order h£f prooeed to Put their house
Gaslight Co Sydney concern, the Australian
own noosf P ear bein F hanged in its
that its nrofits mlf? a J e ars it had pretended
uiar its; profits were far less than thev reallv were
ing to y 4° n ’ y c 7 P± m °P the. capital for a start, diminish:
i‘,s " “
assets it n 0n lts capital but on its net
charging too much*or p°? e h b ?
them illegally i/- - 8 . 7 , ’ but J t had not got
more hoSy than Z ** them
the capital on , the shareholders had got
the Send There w- t*” propoßed to allow
refusing the co a retort thus no justification for
capital 6tum on lts assets excess of the
portion°oiM "“wE* n had secreted 'a large
of the House ‘ was heard at the bar
therefore, onlv game to Kn °*- was-
allowed to capitalise th*t it might be
£425.000. This would w dlsclosed reserves—
from £850,000 to £1 ln S reased th e capital
got a little breathing Now ’ th e co. having
thing more thoroughly* ™ot • do the
£425,000 of visible reserves h,V capitallsl . n f? the
other £405000 bu * a i®> issuing an-
assets. That is to L the invisible
in other words, take' predial wnt up its assets —
hitherto not admitted How pr ? fit which it has
is for a public co to «, / h 7’ est or otherwise it
when it h£ actually iadfvioo nnn mad , e £lO0 ’ 000
sidered at present A rnrfJ“°’ 000 ’ need not he con-
to be done! rotten law allows it
r^ni t b e f d^blSTwHh^? 1-68 be that
more monev; so if the law !' t l out getting in anv
d fnd at 7 p.a the dire^^f^Bdivi-
almost as much as it at rrr/S - ab ip to pay out
dend for many vears p a «? v, dl ®tributes, the divi-
Plan of writing' up canital wi/*5 een 15 pc - This
Britain when a standard ? ne adopted in
law. Meantime the public ' dmden d was fixed by
of a reduction in the price S a c l? t * n tbe shape
3s. 6d„ as from Januarv l from 3s. 9d. to
bad as it was. has done some Bil1 ’


GOOD
Dividends
Interest
INVESTMENTS that embody all the elements
necessary to Soundness and Productiveness.
Unless we are assured, after the most searching
and thorough investigation, of the earning capac-
ity of everv investment, business organisation and
enterprise brought to us —we do not handle it.
CONSULT US on any sound, healthy business
proposition you may have. We will afford you
the fullest information we have at our disposal.
DEPARTMENTS: Promotion of Industries, Pub-
lic Companies, Trust Estates, Security Depart-
ment, Secretarial Dept., Real Estate, Local and
Foreign Agencies, etc.
Authorised Capital £500,000.
J. Earle Hermann Ltd.,
Sydney, Melbourne and London.
Head Office— Third Floor, Yaralla
Chambers, 109 Pitt St., Sydney.
London Office: 199 Winchester House,
Old Broad Street, E.C.
As
sosi
Established 33 Years.
THE Trustees, Executors
and Agency Co., Ltd.,
412 Collins St., Melbourne.
The Company acts as
EXECUTOR,
ADMINISTRATOR,
TRUSTEE,
AGENT.
Estates Administered Exceed £24,000,000.
Please, call or write for Pamphlet.
JAS. BORROWMAN, General Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Manager.
A great mistake, when erecting new works or re
arranging old ones, is often made in constructing the
building and installing machinery ere looking round
for means of transport of the raw material, half-
manufactured and finished goods. Messrs. Adolf
Bleichert and Co., of London, have issued various
catalogues and leaflets, illustrating and describing a
few of the many transport systems and plants which
they have supplied, and which show the solution of
the transport question and the advantages of em-
ploying such appliances. W. and J. Lempriere,
Melbourne and Sydney, are the Australian representa-
tives, and would be pleased to hear from those in-
terested. A specially trained engineer is retained to
consult and advise.*
Mine managers and engineers contemplating Re-
inforced Concrete construction, should write for par-
ticulars of the Indented Steel Bar, which gives the
greatest bond, and is the strongest and cheapest re-
inforcement on the market. Used by the N. S.
Wales and Queensland railways for bridges, by the
Sydney Water and Sewerage Board for elevated re-
servoirs, by the N. S. Wales Government Architect,
and by all the leading architects. Should guaranteed
designs be required for concrete structures, our ex-
pert will be pleased to furnish plans and descrip-
tions. Apply, Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.*
■*-***
In all smithing work high-class iron can be mor;
safely manipulated at varying temperatures than
steel or ordinary iron. It is for this reason that
Best Yorkshire Farnley Iron is preferred by engi-
neers, where toughness, great strength and close
grain are needed. Whatever the specification, Iron
of the Farnley type does not vary, but is simply the
best that can be produced from what is really
wrought iron. “Farnley” Bars of all sections sup-
plied from local stock by Sole Agents of the Farnley
Iron Comp., Ltd. Bell’s Asbestos, Ltd., 315 Kent
Street, Sydney.*
* * * *
From June to September the Bacchus Marsh Shire
Council (Vic.) crushed and spread 3000 cub. yards
of road metal, at an average cost of 2s. 6d. per cub.
yard, and the cost of the spalls per cub. yard aver-
aged 2s. 4d., making a total cost of 4s. lOd. per cub.
yard, broken and spread. Their last contract under
the handbreaking system amounted to 6s. 3d. per
cub. yard stacked on the roadside, and spreading Is. ;
total, 7s. 3d., as against 4s. lOd. A saving of 2s. sd.
per cub. yard. This result was obtained by using a
Bigelow 16in. by 9in. Patent Stonecrusher, and the
Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
manufacturers of these breakers.* [2
* * * *
Extract from Financial News, London, July 12,
1911: “The annual report of The Colonial Mutual
Life Assurance Society affords abundant evidence
that ‘Forward’ is still the watchword of the directors,
for in every direction admirable progress has been
achieved.”*
PIONEER WOOD PIPE is not a prey to the at-
tacks of mineral, acids or sulphur fumes, which
quickly eat out metal pipe. Water preserves the
wood. In addition to being extremely durable, it is
also remarkably economical. The Australian Wood
Pipe Co., Ltd., Balmain (N.S.W.), and Footscray
(Vic.), will send catalogue on application.*
Haes and Eggers, Ltd., of 163 Clarence Street, are
the Australian representatives of M. B. Wild and Co.,
specialists in the manufacture of hauling and winding
machinery of every description. See p. 3.*
♦ * * *
Harringtons Ltd. are now in a position to quote
the lowest fees for all kinds of assay, analytical and
metallurgical work. Expert advice on ore treatment,
smelting, bullion refining, etc. This firm have now
a most up-to-date and completely fitted laboratory,
directed by a first-class analyst from Johnson and
Sons, London, assayers to the Bank of England,
H.M. Mint, The Council of India, etc. Any work of
the above nature entrusted to this reliable firm of
photographic manufacturers will receive immediate
and prompt attention. For full particulars and
prices apply to Harringtons, Ltd., 380 George Street,
Sydney.*
* * * *
TUCKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auctioneers,
Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street (Basement), Melb. (J. W. Styles, 23 years
Expert Salesman.)*
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
co Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 163 King Street, Syd-
ney.* [2
Mephan Ferguson Proprietary Limited, engineers,
etc., of Melbourne, having completed their contracts,
amounting to about £150,000, for the manufacture
and supply of Lockingbar steel pipes, for Brisbane
Water and Sewerage Board, are now removing all
machinery to Melbourne works to manufacture similar
pipes for the new O’Shannessy water scheme for Mel-
bourne water supply, the cost of which will be over
£lOO,OOO. The work is to be completed within 12
months.*
* * * *
The “Bolinder” Heavy-duty Marine Oil Engines,
which are constructed without any valves or electric
ignition, run either on crude or kerosene oils, are
represented throughout Australasia by Babcock and
Wilcox, Ltd., 427 Sussex Street, Sydney. For
marine work the “Bolinder” engine has many ad-
vantages, viz., small oil consumption, ease of start-
ing, no complicated arrangement of valves or gears,
being direct reversible and fitted throughout with
forced lubrication. *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Coi.lison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
Assayers, Mine Managers and Prospectors write
to H. B. Silberberg and Co. Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, and at Melbourne, for particulars concerning
mining requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc
pulverisers to 200 mesh ; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospector’s balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces ; Morgan’s crucibles : chemicals : etc.*
Patents. —Consult W. SIGMONT, Certificated Patent
Attorney (by exam.), Mech. and Elect. Engineer, 60
Castlereagh Street, Sydney. Information tree.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monotael
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The prospectus of the Standard Salt Co.
of Australia was issued in Adelaide just before the
holidays. It is proposed that the eo. shall take over
a business carried on by a private co. which has been
trading for some years under a similar name. In all,
25,000 shares of £1 each are now offered; £24,710
is to be paid in cash to the vendors, and another
£5OOO is to go to them out of profits after 10 p c
p.a. has been paid for the first three years and 8 p.c.
thereafter. Under certain conditions the principal
vendors guarantee 10 p.c. for three years. It will
thus be seen that the vendors (0. T. McGlew and F
A. Morgan practically constitute the old co.) take
all their payment in cash, though they reserve to
themselves the right to apply for and be allotted
10,000 shares at par. The purchase money is repre-
sented as follows: Freeholds and plant, £l2 500-
leases and goodwill, £7500; stock, £9710; total’,
£29,710. The prospectus doesn’t mention who made
these valuations. Presumably the vendors did it.
The only other figures available are those of an
accountant who certifies that “the net profits for the
two years ending 31/7/T2 are £4254.” That means
10 p.c. on £21,270; and as the present flotation
will put no new capital into the business, it isn’t
easy to see where 10 p.c. on £25,000 is to come
from, more particularly as one of the vendors is to
be managing director until he dies, resigns or is re-
moved, and the same managing director is for 10
years to be the “sole seller” of the new co.’s salt in
S. Aus., while the other one is to be “sole seller” in
N. S. Wales for the same period. The business is to
be taken over as from August 1, 1912, but the profits
made between that date and the completion of the
purchase are not to go to the co. The two-year
period covered by the accountant’s brief certificate
is inadequate as a guide to either the probable past
or the probable future. It is also unsatisfactory that
the figures for the two years should be lumped. Alto-
gether the proposal can only be regarded as an ex-
tremely greedy one, and from various points of view
quite unattractive.
Broken Hill (N.S.W.) scored remarkably
well during 1912. Its dividends totalled £1,529,417.
The South heads the list with £290,000. Sulphides
make a good second with £288,750. B. H. North
pays £260,000 (partly out of accumulated profit) ;
B. H. Prop., £192,000; Zinc Coporation, £183,967:
Amalgamated Zinc, £137,500. Up to date, 11
cos. on the Barrier have paid away £16,636,253, 60
per cent, of the vast sum coming from the B. 11.
Prop. At the moment, this co. is only third on the
list, yet its market valuation is much higher than
that of the South or the Sulphide Corporation, prov-
ing what a hold a glorious past has on the imagina-
tion.
* * * *
During November, Broken Hill exported
minerals worth on the spot £419,000. Lead con-
centiates are still valued at over £lO per ton,
£252,717 being the net return credited to 24,492
tons. A few years since, zinc tailings were of no
value except for filling, but they are now returning
large profits. The Mt return for 46,744 tons ex-
ported in November was £161,864. And that is
only about one-fourth of their gross value; the
balance goes in charges or is lost in treatment. And,
unfortunately, the bulk of the treatment is still
done by the foreigner.
A cable reports that the Sulphide Cor-
poration, Broken Hill, pays £288,750, or £144,375
more than the previous vear. Net profits are stated
to run this way:—l9o9, £153,382 ; 1910, £204,833 ;
1911, £179,448 ; 1912, £307,068. The splendid
results for the past 12 months (the year ends on
June 30) are largely due, of course, to the fine
markets for lead and spelter ; but a good mine and
excellent organisation were the foundations on which
the co.’s success has been built up.
* * * *
The B. H. Junction-Junction North venti-
lation case, after lasting 17 days, has been hung
up until February, when it will probably fill another
six or nine—three, say, in taking the Junction’s
rebutting evidence and six in counsel’s addresses.
The principal technical witnesses for the Junction
North have been Bowie Wilson, formerly under-
ground manager at Mount Morgan, and Danvers
Power; on the other side, A. A. Boyd, formerly
underground manager of the B. H. Prop., and James
Hebbard, once a mine inspector, but for years past
mine manager for the Sulphide Corporation.
Leverrier, K.C., on one side; Langer Owen. K.C.,
on the other. Between law and expert witnesses
the expenses run to about £135 a day. Leverrier,
besides being a lawyer, is an eminent scientist,
and his cross-examination of some _of the Junction
North’s witnesses has been searching, not to say
disconcerting.
The Sydney peonle who acquired the old
Sunny Corner silver-lead mine (N.S.W.), a few
months ago, gave an option of purchase to a London
metal co., which in turn passed the offer on to the
Zinc Corporation; and the latter has now cabled
notifying that the option will be exercised. As far
as is known, a new co., with a capital of £200,000
or more, will be formed to equip and work the pro-
perty, which, though handy to Lithgow, was really
the forerunner of the great Barrier field.
Principal Westralian results for Novem-
ber :—•
Revenue. Profit. Value
Tonnage. £ £ per ton.
Great Boulder . . 18,303 49,758 28,395 54/4
Tvanhoe . . . . 19,018 38,666 16,006 40/7
Kalgurli .. .. 10,620 21,062 9,070 39/8
Yuanmi . . . . 10,150 18,048 6,282 35/7
Sons of Gwalia . . 13,400 21.081 3,374 31/6
Associated . . 10,205 12,328 1,179 24/2
Oroya Links . . 11,050 12,612 2,526 22/9
Lake View and Star 17,815 21,058 3,613 23/8
Boulder Perseverance 21,061 26,497 6,548 25/-
Golden Horseshoe.. 26,510 34,887 2,156 26/4
South Kalgurli . . 9,546 11,490 1,824 24/-
Great Fingall . . 5,763 10,643 973 36/11
Mararoa . . . . 2,690 9,977 74/2
Associated Northern 2,324* 11,327 97/6
Ora Banda . ■ 5,906 5,390 1,131 18/3
Golden Ridge . . 3,014 5,215 1,750 34/7
Mountain Queen . . 3,326 4,381 1,069 26/4
Sand Queen . . 1,377 3,713 1,499 54/-
Lake View and Oroya 8.955 f 1,707 501 3/9
Menzies Consolidated 1,876 3,453 293 36/9
Commodore . . 1,070 1,497 507 28/-
Marvel Loch . . 1,150 2,185+ 363 38/-
Golden Butterfly .. 1,180 1,295 237 21/1
Bullrush . . . . 650 1,316 45/10
Morning Star .. 353 1,752§ 299 56/4
Loss.
Hainault . . . . 6,042 5,592 545 18/6
Burbanks Main Lode 1,812 4,440 501 U 49/-
Lad.y Miller . . 2,120 1,933 29 18/3
*Mostly tributors’ ore. tOld residues. ilncludes
£385 revenue from public crushing. Ilncludes £758
from old sands. ([Expenditure included £BOO devel-
opment and £1690 capital.
Westralia s gold dividends for November
aggregated £13,812, making a total for the 11
months of £677,741. The December contribution
will add another £160,000 or so to that.
Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) has optioned a
neighboring lease known as Perkins’s. Two forma-
tions have been pot-holed, and two or three small
crushmgs have given fair returns. It is possible
i?k° w as the continuation of one or two of
the Gwalia shoots or their relations.
* * * *
Aorth Kalgurli (W.A.) is now stated to
have £16,000 in hand = 12id. per share.
Associated Northern (W\A.) has over-
come its treatment troubles at Ora Banda by using
coarse instead of fine filter cloths and making a
few other alterations and adjustments. Three hun-
dred tons a day are now being put through, and
provided all hands and the cook are temperate at
Christmas, the quantity put through during Decem-
ber should be not far short of 9000 tons, and the
profit correspondingly better than that of the two
previous months. The big body of oxidised ore re-
cently struck at the No. 4 level is being driven on
west; the first 20ft. bulks 50s. per ton for a width
of 48in.
* * * *
Binti Binti (W.A.) was made the subject
of a mild whoop in Adelaide the other day, when
shareholders in the Kurnalpi and Havilah Option
syndicates heard first-hand from manager Creer all
about the shows lately acquired there. A plan was
produced showing reefs, lodes and other possible de-
lusions, and admiring shareholders had a beautiful
time listening to the glowing accounts. Creer be-
lieved that as soon as a permanent water supply had
been established it would pay to erect a battery.
* * * »
Edna May, at Westons (W.A.), is being
boomed. A 600-ton parcel, now being crushed, is
estimated to average 30z., and down to 150 ft. the
reserves are reputed to be worth £120,000, of which
nearly one-half has lately been developed. Not hav-
ing seen the show, The Bulletin is unable to either
confirm or condemn these figures, but, on a geologi-
cal basis, it has a doubt whether the Westons field
will last down.
Fremantle Trading Co. (W.A.), which
digs out ore and smelts for a living, shows a credit
of £6llB for the past financial year. A 2s. divi-
dend mops up £5OOO, leaving £lllB to carry for-
ward. During the period covered by the report,
9773 tons of lead ore were raised from the co.’s
Northampton shows, and treated for a recovery of
1769 tons of leady concentrates (76.62 p.c.). The
co. has lately extended its operations by re-opening
the old Narra Tarra mine in the same district.
* * * *
Once again London, Australian and Gen-
eral Exploration, Ltd., tries to make a somewhat
drab outlook as bright as possible in its annual re-
port. “Unfavorable course of markets” (which gen-
erally means inability to realise on unsaleable
stocks) and the dragging of the newly-acquired busi-
nesses are given as reasons why the co. did not make
money during the period. Among old investments,
the Burma and Great Fitzroy mines are said to have
greatly improved, and both are declared to have a
future. Reference is made to the Northern Mines,
which gave up the ghost some months ago on ac-
count of inefficient labor, poor ore, etc., and to the
Lancefield, where work is at a standstill until some
cheaper method of gold extraction is found. Both
these are in W.A. The co.’s interests on the Maikop
oil field are in suspense pending results from dia-
mond drilling; its Porcupine ventures are admitted
to be a failure, although the concerns in which it
holds shares still have a bit of cash in hand. Pre-
sent investments and speculations also include in-
terests in Phoenix tin mines, Cornwall, and the pur-
chase of a share in another Cornish tin venture has
been practically arranged.
Kyarra, Meekatharra district (W.A.), has
had a soz. development at 200 ft. Bullrush shares,
being interested, have jumped. The Commodore,
same field, has improved appearances, and a good
strike at 400 ft. in the adjoining Ingliston Extended
has also livened up the latter’s scrip a bit. A
Bulletin man hopes to have another look at the
Meekatharra shows in a month or so.
* * * *
Bullfinch Prop. (W.A.) expects to start
crushing at the end of January, and, helped by satis-
factory developments at 210 ft. and 310 ft., hones for
monthly profits of from £lO,OOO to £12,000 when
the plant is in full swing. A new make of ore at
310 ft. has a massive appearance, and the last firing
out shows a splendid face of mineralised ore; by
mixing this with the oxidised ore from the upper
levels it is expected that an excellent filtering pro-
duct will be obtained and the work of the slimes
plant lightened.
■* * * *
Corinthian North, situated a few miles
from Bullfinch, and floated in 1911 by D. L. Doo-
lette, hopes to begin ore-treatment at the end of
April next.
At Charters Towers the past year has
proved once more the uncertainty of mining. What
was regarded as the best hope of the field —the
extension of the Day Dawn to the east of the New
Brilliant Freehold’s boundary—has been a blank, or
thereabouts. The underlay winzes sunk on the Day
Dawn formation have proved merely a horizontal
extension of payable stone, about 30ft. in depth.
The Freehold’s DOpularity has likewise been dis-
counted by the limited nature of the pay shoot
below No. 4 level; also the stone crushed has been
only about half as rich as it was when the boom
took Freeholds up to 30s. On the other hand, the
Brilliant Deeps provided a surprise, and the rich
shoot of stone above 2600 ft., and westward of dis-
turbed country, has kept the field’s pecker up. The
pay shoot in this ease is lenticular, too; so far it
has been proved payable for some 300 ft. in depth
and 300 ft. in length, and the bottom levels are still
in good form. #
Since June 30 Mount Elliott has pro-
duced 3535 tons of blister containing, by estimation.
3503 tons of copper. For the six months it secured
both a record output and a record price, and ap-
parently the directors are satisfied with the profit, or
they would no't have launched a 10s. dividend, mak-
ing the total 425. per share. Still, shareholders, buy-
ing in on an inflated market, will have to wait a
long time to get their capital back. For 12 months
to the end of June the co. made a net profit of a
trifle over £3O per ton on the copper it produced
(5243 tons). Since then the average price of elec-
trolytic copper has been higher, but it is impossible
to sav how much of the increase is profit, because
there is hardly a mining co. using much timber and
stores that hasn’t had to face increased costs.
The copper boom was right into Mount
Morgan’s hands. During the last six months it pro-
duced 5003 tons of the red metal, and a £lO rise
meant Is. per share on even Mount Morgan s big
register. Never before had the mine produced so
much base metal, which even at £6O per ton is
worth more than the .output of gold—copper,
£3OO 180* gold, £292,941 ; total, £593,1-,1.
There’ should be an increased dividend somewhere
about.
It will be February before Hampden-
Cloncurry (Q.) can develop its smelting practice
sufficiently to think of paying a dividend. Mount
Elliott will swing round to its quarterly distribution
about the same time.. Development work at the
Answer copper mine and the Gilded Rose gold mine
will be pushed along. Enriching copper with gold
and silver by collecting those metals from furnace
linings or fluxes in the furnace is becoming quite
fashionable. For three months ended September 30
Queensland put up a record in the red metal, pro-
ducing £590,000 worth of copper as against
£312,000 for the corresponding part of 1911.
Captain Richard, lately manager of Mount
Morgan, has been up having a look at Mount Oxide
on behalf of one of the big London financial syndi-
cates, whose attorney in Australia thinks so well of
the mine that he is prepared to recommend his people
to subscribe capital to equip it. The directors prefer
debentures, because most of the money is wanted to
pay for a railway, and the idea is that when the line
is finished, the State may buy it, as it did the
Etheridge and other lines. Arrangements for the
formation of a new co. may, however, be made, in
lieu of a debenture issue. Prior to taking on with
the London syndicate, Herman, the Oxide Co.’s finan-
cial manager, was in negotiation with 8., M. and Co.
Malmsbury Alluvial (Vic.) is having a
shot at 400 acres on the west of the old alluvial
township. The Confluence Co. years ago worked up
to the boundary of this ground, and there is the old
story of good prospects right to the line. That
there is wash and some gold in the area a couple of
bores have proved. A shaft has been put down
during the year, and they are now driving to get
under the wash. A big flow of water is expected
when the wash is bored into, but the pumps are
ready. The work so far has been done very cheaply
(the property stands at only £165 in the books,
vendors getting a mere £B5, plus £l5OO in shares),
and the thing is being given an honest chance, any-
way.
The South Aus. Radium Proprietary,
which holds ground a few miles from Olary, adjacent
to the Radium Hill Co.’s leases, is sending some
parcels of ore to Europe and America for experi-
mental treatment. The Americans are already fami-
liar with carnotite-vanadium ore associated with
ironstone, for deposits exist in the States, and the
vanadium product is used in the steel trade. Mean-
time the Australian chemist Radcliff, having pro-
duced radium bromide from the Radium Hill ore on
a commercial basis, and being satisfied that the
works at Woolwich (N.S.W.) can now turn out
about 10 milligrams a week at a profit, proposes to
give his attention to the preparation of the rare
earths which accompany the radium. Incidentally
he will go presently to the mine in S. Aus.; but
that will be partly in the hope of improving the
grade of the product from the magnetic concen-
trating plant.
“M.C.”: Shareholders in Radium Hill
might feel better if the statements made about values,
etc., were less theoretical. First of all the ore re-
serves are estimated at 90,000 tons, and, according to
the managing director, they contain £900,000 worth
of radium bromide, taking the latter at £l5 per
milligram. Obviously a ton of ore is expected to
yield three-quarters of a milligram, or £lO worth
of radium bromide. This is after concentration at
the mine, shipment to works near Sydney, and very
tedious and lengthy treatment. An official statement
shows that a 1 p.c. concentrates yields a value of
£52 10s. per ton. But all the concentrates received
have not contained 1 p.c. uranium oxide, so we have
to fall back on the managing director’s statement
that 30,000 tons of concentrates (from 90,000 tons of
ore) are approximately worth £900,000, or £3O per
ton. That is theoretical, and may be too conserva-
tive ; but it is certainly very disconcerting to find
that the cost of mining, concentrating and transport
is officially computed at £lO 7s. lid., while the cost
of treatment adds £l9 10s., making a total cost of
£29 17s. lid. per ton of concentrates. Obviously, a
value of £3O per ton wouldn’t make anybody fat.
Briseis (Tas.) estimates its profit for the
year at £59,000. Its return for the September
quarter was 135 tons of tin concentrates containing
981 tons of metal —a small lot to expect a profit of
£15,000 from. Still the dredges in Victoria may
have helped; a return of 22520 z. (£8698) from
408,200 cub. yds.—that is slightly over 4d. per
yard—looks profitable. *
From one of the party; A few weeks ago
a couple of men came into a West Coast (S.A.)
town with a glowing tale of an opal discovery in the
Gawler Ranges, about 120 miles Outback, submit-
ting, in suriport of their tale, splendid samples. A
few local speculators took the matter up and sent
the stuff to Adelaide for expert opinion, one of the
local men accompanying the precious goods. The
expert gave a beautiful report, but added: “If you
have country where such stuff as this is, you have
something specially good. But I doubt it —the
samples look like White Cliffs,” or words to that
effect. However, a small syndicate was formed, and
the discoverers were sent out to develop the claim. A
week or so went by; then the syndicate came to the
conclusion that it would like to view its property, of
which the prospectors continued to send in glowing
reports. The owners of three motor-cars were in-
duced to make the trip—hesitatingly, as the track
included a belt of about 25 miles of sandhills. On
the day the start was made the glass was registering
100 in the shade, and troubles soon began. Never-
theless the way was kept cheerfully until the sand
was reached. Then Sheol had its lid removed; one
car eventually had to be abandoned, and it was an
all-out expedition that came through on the other
side. But the “mine” was reached at last. The
party found a pothole, and that was all it could find.
Not a vestige of opal was to be seen anywhere.
* * * *
Talisman Consolidated, Karangahake
(M.L.), produced £226,171 in the first 11 months
of the year, making its total £1,871,257. Latterly
the monthly returns have shown less stone crushed,
but the quality has been better. The November lot
averaged over £ 6 per ton. How long it will last
cannot be told, for reserves are small; but the re-
duced tonnage isn’t a healthy sign. Costs total 51s.
ner ton; 16s. 4d. per ton is charged for develop-
ment, 16s. Bd. for mining, 15s. 4d. for miHing, and
general expenses claim 2s. Bd. There are 345,000
shares, so a quarterly dividend- of Is. 6d. costs
£25,875. * « *
When Maoriland’s Finance Minister Allen
gets to London and meets J. Bull Cohen, he will have
to sidestep the matter of the Dominion s recent rail-
way revenue returns. Notwithstanding the continuous
capital expenditure, the net revenue this fiscal year
so far (32 weeks) is £9BOB less than forthe cor-
responding fraction of last year. The trouble is the
same through all the States and the Dominion In-
stead of adopting a steady policy of railway building
they work in spasms, and, after years of sloth, dash
with a construction boom, during which they & et
wretched value for their money—in other words get
two miles of line for the money that should provide
three miles. Consequently freights have to be
bumped up, and the expected development of the
country to feed the lines doesn’t #
H. C. Hoover, of 8.. M. and Co., thinks that
the world’s gold production will have reached the
limit within the next 12 months. Hoover adds that
the Rand (from which one-third of the world s gold
now comes) will go on producing for 50 years, but
in steadily diminishing quantities. S African papers,
of course,' say that an expansion is far more probable
than a contraction of the Rand #
“O K.” : The story of the oil mining pro-
ject in the Northern Territory draws further attention
to the unfitness of Josiah Thomas. When a first
Yankee application was made for an oil concession
in the empty North, Thomas refused this proposal to
open up a barren land and furnish the Commonwealth
with a new national resource. On reflection it
occurred to him that the Federal Government had no
idea of trying to strike oil on its own account, so
when the application was renewed he backed out of
his “definite” refusal, and sat down to consider a
fair business proposition. If the Yankee exploiters
can make wealth spring from the innards of the
earth, a concession for a limited period will suffice
them. Why the first application for an oil-boring
concession should have been unconditionally refused,
Heaven and Josiah only know. The Northern Ter-
ritory is crying aloud for exploration on the surface
and underground. The duty of the Federal Govern-
ment is to encourage every kind of white Private
Enterprise that will come along, without, of course,
relinquishing its freehold.
XYZ: Don’t know what your chances of
recovering any of your capital are ; but your chances
of getting any divs. are dreadfully bad.


Under
Royal
Warrant
ToH.NL
George V
CHAMPAGNE
IflSl
CHAMPAGNt
I^artesHeidsieoc
Reims
■w:xv
C',-,
b
" SPECIAL
THEATRE DIMMED
EVEPY EPIDAY EVENING
parmer'S TABLE D DOTE 4/s
ti-tYHiuH/onrin rLUOW
BUCHANAN’S
Black <& White.
A grand spirit
“ B,ack & White ” is i„ d ee d
Matured for years in Scotland
L 4 grand spirit.’
before shipment
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, December 30, 1912.
My Dear Arini.—
Those who had any intimate knowledge
at all of Lady Denman were astonished the
other day to read that she had asked for the
gift of two valuable Louis XV. chairs as a
memento of her stay in the Macquarie-
street Government House. They decided at
once the story had a flaw in it some-
where. Yet when day after day passed and
no official contradiction arrived, the best
excuse they could make was that the chairs
couldn’t have been so intrinsically valuable
as had been suggested. As a matter of fact,
the real explanation is far more creditable
to the lady. Her Ex. expressed a wish that
if there were a sale of the furniture in ex-
Government House, she might be allowed to
buy' the two tables in question. A zealous
official who heard this remark appears to
have mixed up the wish, and, off his own
bat, as they say in the classics, forwarded
a statement to the Prime Minister to the
effect that Lady D. would like them as a
gift—a notion which had never occurred to
her.
The Denman lady is an incurable collec-
tor of ancient furniture with thin, curly
legs and gnarled backs. Before the Great
Departure from Sydney she thought herself
lucky to have bought, at a stiff figure, from
a Sydney firm, a dozen beautiful tapestry
chairs of the Louis XV. period. They had
come from Tasmania. As the firm which
housed them here thought it had no hope of
selling them for the price asked, they were
booked for London, when they met the eye
of the collecting Excellency. These chairs
were removed to Government House, and
were much admired at the farewell ball in
October, when they gave the ballroom a
whiff of ancient French fashion. The
relics of long ago repose now in Melbourne
Government House.
Chamberlain Nevill missed by a few thou-
sand miles the splinters of the bomb that
nearly pushed India’s Viceroy Hardinge into
Eternity. Lord Dick ate his Christmas din-
ner in Melbourne instead of at Delhi, as
he originally intended. He came back to
Australia this trip for a year, and meant to
go on to his connections, the Hardinges, for
a slice of Christmas turkey. But, instead of
sitting in a howdah, with the fragments of
sudden death falling about his ears, the
much-travelled Nevill merely snapped bon-
bons with the juvenile Denmans and the in-
fant Barttelots. He goes to Delhi some
time in 1913 —unless another upheaval in his
present plans keeps him anchored here.
Boxing Day at Randwick showed the
country visitor basking in the firm resolve to
sun himself in the smile of Bookie. When the
odds on one nag reached the costly price of
10 to nine, a lean young sapling from the
Back of Beyond raised his protesting voice
m the betting chorus and cried aloud for
the Tote. The weather was bright and
warm, and fanned by a swift breeze that
nearly tore the ostrich plume out by its
roots. . And the stuffed remains of a de-
moralised cockatoo banged its wings in a
purple hat till the owner’s millinery looked
like the centre of a bird-boxing match.
A fragment of local “society” stuck to its
post in the members’ stand and wore its
treadmill smile, as though being present was
part of its duty to something or other.
I hose on. show in the sacred enclosure were
not sufficiently numerous to require the ser-
vices of the regiment of un-turned chairs
that tossed their legs in the air in the
members’ tea room. The majority of dames
who usually occupy these seats are catching
freckles and country tan in other parts.
A few marvellous creations in magpie
blend were an exhilarating fillip to the fre-
quent white lingerie frock on the Randwick
Jawn. Mrs. Amess, with a snowy blizzard
m her handsome hat, was mostlv white in
heavy guipure lace and black in filmy frock-
mg underneath, with a dash of pale blue
across her corsage. Mrs. Harry Levy fol-
lowed the white-and-blue habit so prevalent
the other day. A damsel in a diaphanous
white robe had Gothic arches in periwinkle
blue round the hem of her tube skirt. For
the tube or bolster drape, though fighting
tor. its life, is by no means dead. It still
assists young and foolish maidens to fall off
tram steps. Justice Barton, much thinner
than of yore, walked the earth in front of
the members pen. Willsallens, McMasters
and Rolo Whites were present in limited
samples. Mr. Francis Bacon, not long
back from the other side, and Mrs. Francis
also gave up Boxing Day to the Horse. I
tancy Major Horace Dangar was promptly
discovered by two maidens in search of
something unattached to talk .to. It mav
have, been his. double, however. Solicitor
»orri s, with his blue-eyed sister, the pretty
Etta, and Mrs. Lipscombe descended seri-
ally mto the sweep. But the dress oarade
which dazzles the mere toiler at the bis
spring and autumn meetings was not pre-
sent to the extent of 10 p.c. 1
The Admiralty lady said good-bye to her
friends and acquaintances over the steaming
tea-cup before hurrying off to summer in
Hobart. The Admirable and his gentle dame
come back to this port later on, and finally
disappear from the Australian horizon in
June.
The well-dowered Miss Sadie Toohey,
who came of age the other week, will be per-
manently engaged with a wedding ring to
Mr. McEwen, R.N., before this reaches you.
He’s a lieutenant on the gunboat Encounter,
and the course of his true love has been
rather storm-tossed. Still Mamma may be
somewhat mollified by the fact that the wed-
ing occurs in St. Mary’s Cathedral. The
girl has been staying with her sister, Mrs.
Mortimer (who also married a naval frill
in the teeth of a family breeze some little
time ago), at Cromer. The wedding bite
was arranged to take place under the sisterly
wing at the same address.
Concerning the success which attends the
wooing of Australian heiresses by John
Bull, R.N., in these ports, one notices the
snail-like slowness of the local military
species. The khaki person in the “regular”
force has acquired a chronic habit of marry-
ing a girl as poor as himself. Then the
pair sit down to count up how much they’ll
have for the clamorous butcher, when the
Commonwealth has deducted the rent of the
expensive quarters in which poor officer
Atkins has no desire to live, but must. A
few sheets of bark or a piano-case would fit
the size of Ms salary much better. If
the Australian swaddy with a commission
doesn’t acquire more pace, there will be no
gilded maidens left for him. During the last
five or six years, Bull, R.N., has married
Beer, Beef, Wool, Wheat, Potatoes and all
the other products of the soil, with such
swift attention to business that the local
Uniform hasn’t time to throw out his chest
and approach the subject before Epaulette
gets away with the Gur-r-1 and the booty.
The very rich Miss Lea, of Adelaide, is
putting up at a fashionable hostel in this
town. A small wedge of local society,
which helped to eat a Durbar dinner, given
by Miss Lea a week or two ago, is still
talking about the gorgeous details. All the
guests, like the hostess, had climbed the
festive elephant at the last Durbar, so the
decorations mostly ran to miniatures of that
ponderous beast, with a small consignment
of silver tigers. The slender, willow-wand
figure of the hostess was swathed in dia-
phanous draperies of azure. Mrs. Critchley
Hinder’s rose-pink gown had the fashionable
flick of sable peculiar to frocks that have
recently passed through the Customs. The
Edgar Patersons were in the party. He is
just back from a scamper through Europe,
America and the tail-end of India. Norman
Lockhart and Captain Cass (the latter
is recently from India) were on the
decorative male side. Handy to the Lea
banquet was a man’s dinner de luxe, which
included all the indigestibles of the festive
season, and circled round a Teddy Bear in
ice.
A man who was on the Eastern, the
steamer which took Mr. Wade and family
away on the hunt for better health, writes
me that the ex-Premier appeared at the
inevitable plain-and-fancy-dress ball in the
apparel of a mighty Roman. The man
doesn’t know whether he was supposed to
be a gladiator or not, but adds that he looked
formidable enough to slay Speaker Willis
with one blow of his tongue. Mrs. Wade,
the daughters Wade and the Wade boy were
also amongst those present, the Wade boy as
something feminine.
Miss Clarke, who ceases to be Mayoress
of Sydney on December 31, issued pasteboard
notices t<£ her acquaintances that she would
be at a sort of au revoir at-home in the Town
Hall from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. on that day.
Prof. MacCallum’s eldest son, who is in-
dexed as Mungo Lorenz, was married the
other week to his cousin, Miss Hilda Ballar-
die, a recent arrival in these parts. The
wedding occurred on the breezy Blue Moun-
tain heights of Mount Wilson, which rears
its head in the clouds about 10 miles from
Mount Victoria. The elm, the chestnut and
other British vegetation flourish in the
ancient gardens of the homesteads there-
abouts, and fertile farms are tucked away
between green hedges, far from the madding
motor’s fierce honk honk.
Mosman Bay looked like a glorified gar-
den snatched from a lantern festival in old
Japan the other evening. It celebrated
Christmas Eve by hanging the soft glimmer
of heathen lanterns before and behind, and
in any part of it that met the tripper’s eye.
The moon, a serene rival to this gold and
orange glitter, rose to schedule time and laid
some decorative streaks of silver across the
water. Massed bands played on an adja-
cent jetty, and bare-headed damsels, loaded
with music scores, dashed across the bay,
to lend their aid to small and turbulent
evening serenades. The pert motor launch
swished past the large waist of the thump-
ing ferry boat, under a glittering canopy of
bobbing lanterns. Mosman made such a de-
termined effort to beat all local “Venetian”
records that it’s up to Lane Cove to hit back
with an Anniversary Night display of
colored lights that will eclipse the coming
revel at Manly.
Mrs. Harry Rickards, who keeps up the
Rickards custom of giving a Christmas
dinner to a thousand of the poor in Sydney,
led her small grandson, Harry Rickards
Maas, to the recent big feed. He’s
the boy, now about seven years young, on
whom his devoted grandpa settled a cosy
helping of the Rickards fortune. The
theatres in Melbourne and Sydney are en-
tailed—an unusual provision in the will of
a modern business man, but the late Harry
R. probably knew their enormous prospec-
tive value. So Hugh Mclntosh merely hugs
a long lease of between 30 and 40 years,
and Mr. “Snowy” Baker steps into the
other’s Stadium shoes for a consideration of
£30,000 or thereabouts. The brunette boxers
will be an artistic foil to the pale-blonde
“Snowy,” who is one of the best.
This season has produced some of the best
red the local Christmas bush has grown for
years. The street vendor knew the decora-
tive value of his warm-tinted blooms, so,
the times being prosperous, he demanded for
the indeterminate pink rather more than
its usual price, while for the gay red
blush he asked and got exactly double.
At this time of year the best-hated tune
in our less expensive suburbs is “Christians,
Awake,” etc. On Christmas Eve, Christians
who had been unable to close an eye owing
to the noisy homecoming of large cargoes of
festive suppers, mounted on two legs, were
driven to a state of heathen frenzy by a
1 a.m. cornet player. This fiend fired
“Christians, Awake,” at one infuriated
suburb till it rose in its pyjamas and retali-
ated with all the missiles it reserves for
roof-walking cats. Other suburbs were
nearly as well off. A drag-load of bandsmen
pervaded the North side of the Harbor blast-
ing out “ ’Way Down Upon the Swanee
River” and other well-known carols.
One of the city’s big universal provideries
had a large compound fenced off from the
adult shopper. It was labelled “The Child-
ren’s Paradise,” and contained nearly every
toy known to youthful spendthrifts since the
days when Mr. Noah set the fashion in
Arks. The hard-pressed mother, driven
back to her last inch of patience by the task
of dragging a young family through the
Christmas traffic, found “The Children’s
Paradise” a heavenly spanking ground. An
acquaintance, who put her head inside the
portal of Paradise on Christmas Eve, saw
various matrons vigorously correcting vari-
ous mutinous infants, who rent the welkin
with their cries, while a shopkeeper timor-
ously implored them not to hit too hard. It
was an inspiring spectacle.
The holiday microbe has bitten E. H.
Montgomery, the Maoriland Government
Agent in Sydney. So he rushes aboard the
Wimmera on December 31, and welcomes
the New Year on the bounding main between
Sydney and Auckland.
Another voyager to Geyserland, Speaker
Willis, heaves Hansard and similar impedi-
menta to one side for a few weeks. The
imperturbable watchdog of Or-r-der will eye
the arrival of 1913 from his bunk on the
Wimmera. And Maoriland will be able to
see, free of charge, the most talked about
man in this State during the height of its
tourist season.
Mr. James Edmond drops in with a line
from Hongkong:—
Went to China for afternoon tea. It is 10 minutes
to China if you land at Kowloon. Also, went with a
roar through Canton —the guide, two ladies, and
myself with four chairs and 13 coolies; and Solo-
mon in all his glory did not howl like one of these.
Canton is said to contain 3,000,000 people, not in-
cluding hens and pigs, and innumerable is the pig
thereof. He flounders under the feet of the popu-
lace and scavenges for himself.
Apart from the European quarters, the widest
street in Canton is Bft. across. The narrowest would
admit a fly sideways. All day, save when we stopped
to look at temples, burial grounds, water clocks
shops and sundries, or when we were blocked by
the crowd or fell over some extra pig, we fled
through these streets. From 9 a.m. till 4 p.m our
13 coolies never ceased to yell and warn the crowd
not to interfere with our royal progress.
Drifted across to the pretty Portuguese town of
Macao . for rest and peace and cessation of pig
There is a beautiful harbor, and the streets are fairly
wide and clean. The grenadiers of Portugal are
proper men and tall. Hardly any of them are below
sft. 2in and many are larger. Put in an evening
at a highly respectable fan-tan house of three
?> 0r , e A S ' The cro upier, who looked like the living
Buddha, sat at a table on the ground floor. In the
two upper floors a large square hole had been cut
and a railing built round it, and the assistants low-
ered the bets in baskets, and hauled up the win-
nings in the same way. They didn’t haul up the
losings. But apart from the gambling and the
scenery, there is little joy in Macao, though it’s the
M™l t 0 H ?ngkong goes for a Saturday-to-
Monday. The best hostelry, the Macao Hotei, is
kept by. an Australian, Mrs. Farmer. She is the onlv
person m Asia, so far as we have gone, who knows
how to produce good cookery.
S° me months ago an agricultural rumor in
M.E. connected Major-General Finn with a
desire to spy out the earth in the Dominion.
His presence in those rainy isles was sup-
posed to have been due to a consuming desire
to go on the land. Now he steps ashore here
to take up the general-utility billet of secre-
tary to the Walter Hall Trust.
Miss Marjory Little, Mrs. and Miss Whit-
ing, and Miss Eileen Teece, are off in the
Orsova on January 18. They’ll gad about
the other end of this planet for a year or
The Ladies’ Golf Union, which includes
players from various, clubs, is going to con
centrate its efforts in a week’s goffing at
Leura at the end of January. g 1
The Philip Mortons are on the long, wet
track that leads from Tilbury Docks to Syd-
ney Harbor.
The youthful swimmer, Mina Wylie, just
back from her Olympic triumphs, has
bumped against the Lady Amateur Swim-
ming Association (N.S.W.) with some force.
The Association consists largely of people
who think “union tyranny” very dreadful;
yet, when Mina left for S. Aus. to give an
exhibition, without payment of any sort,
being invited thereto by the Adelaide Ama-
teur Swimming Association, the local body
suspended her for one month, because she
didn’t ask its permission first. Still, the
sporting Mina has something to be thankful
for: I don’t think she’s been asked to give
sureties for her good behavior.
The London press has been enjoying an
almost frenzied discussion of the English-
woman’s foot and its alleged vastness. One
or two Australians took a hand in the argu-
ment, and intimated that the female foot of
the century could only be seen in Anda-
lusia and the cities of the Commonwealth.
But not in the Bush. There, often the soles
spread to British suffragette size, and for
much the same reason —the up-country
housewife must cover a good deal of mileage
in walking around her daily task. The
American artist gives the women of his
country a foot like a thin slice of melon
turned upside down, with sharply pointed
toes, and a deep curve under the instep. An
observant Australian woman, recently in the
U.S., says the American foot is slender,
and the craft of the bootmaker does the rest.
A U.S. belle is the best-shod woman in the
world, for the French woman is coquetting
with a flat make of shoe which takes nothing
from the size of her soles. As for Austra-
lian girls, as we see them amongst the city
traffic, they wear very ordinary shoe-leather,
as a rule, but escape the tragedy of big feet.
The American colony in London is likely to
have a social rival in a few years, for Aus-
tralians abroad seem to band themselves
together in a perpetual circle, with George
Keid in the centre, and the States’ Agents-
General perched at convenient corners. The
world is not quite full of good advertisers
and ladies who are their own hard-worked
press-agents, but it is growing that way. The
number of unimportant persons who thirst
to record the fact that they sneezed twice,
or crossed from one street to another, is
liable to swell the social reports to pon-
derous size.
The amount of useful information which
is buried every week under absolutely
illegible handwriting would probably fill
many dictionaries. Out of a letter from
Berlin, dated Nov. 14, ’l2, I can drag only a
few dry bones. The rest is securely hidden
under Italian letters with pointed tops like
small steeples. Apparently Leila Double-
day made a successful anpearance in Berlin
or thereabouts early in November, at a con-
cert which included a Maoriland pianist
named Alexander. It looks like Alexander,
but it might be Agamemnon. Then one
Maude Mary Pudney, of Adelaide, who has
been gathering technique in Vienna, did her
little bit. A Miss Parkinson, also from
Australia, played at the same concert, so
this end was well represented at some
German entertainment which is mostly illeg-
ible.
The robust Claire Romaine, who special-
ises in “male studies” at the Tivoli, is a
recent English importation who devotes her
spare time to golf. She’s been nominated a
member of the Manly and Kensington clubs,
and is liable to astonish the local mer-
maids by the strength and length of her
drives.
Mrs. George A. Nicoll, who died in Mel-
bourne recently, sometimes guided her pen
along the inky way which leads to The
Bulletin. A booklet of verse called
Leaves from the Australian Bush” was her
most abiding tribute to the Muse.
A correspondent in Westralia tells me
, ls J r nrn re honeymoons and old slippers:
• I lde and groom who had been married
m the morning on the South Coast of W A
were waiting on the beach for the coasting
steamer to take them along to Albany. The
weather was bad, and the skipper’s orders
to the bo sun of the cutter were, ‘Bring the
mails and as few passengers as possible.’
A nasty surf was tumbling on the shore, and
the bo sun hurriedly obeyed his orders, picked
up the mails and shouted, ‘Who wants to
foJw^ y UI F Ut to ' day :’ The bride plunged
forward and was carried through the surf
nut off mP wV°T n i n boat ’ which then
put off without the bridegroom! Eight
tfons C - aft retu med with explana-
tions and apologies, and all hands drank the
brides health the husband having merci-
fully spared the bos’un’s life.”
wenT'vFluF, season ’ s greetings comes the
c " o’ d question, which faints awav un-
answered every year on Dec. 31 Is it
or * foe ?° Iit C °T the FT Year as a fr iend
ChrSmas^Dky? ’Vt'Tt aVinlT 0 ”
w eS es m rd ds i„?4s\sr “
ankle?? ® at their Chnstmas dinner off your
oMsaffeotionately,
VANDORIAN.


VICE-REGAL
JEWELLERS,
by appointment,
HARDY . BROS LIS
CIS
Plain Silver Writing Set, in case,
*4.
Useful Articles.
Our stock embraces many articles suitable for the use of a gentleman,
including :
Ash Trays, Toilet Requisites, Dressing Cases, Shirt Cases, Blotting Books and
Pads, Tobacco Boxes, Jars and Pouches, Field Glasses, Cigar and Cigarette
Cases, Spirit Flasks, Hunting Crops, Walking Sticks, Umbrellas, Paper Knives,
etc. Inspection invited.
Selections sent to any address on approval.
Hardy Brothers, Limited,
Vice-Regal Jewellers,
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE. LONDON.
Mechanical Library.
Each book covers one subject thoroughly on Electrical
and Steam Engineering, Drawing and Machine Design
and Shop Practice.
Price I\4, post free, each book .
No.
1 — Worm Gearing.
2 Drafting Doom Practice.
3 Drill Jigs.
4 Milling Fixtures.
5 Theoretical Mechanics.
7 Lathe and Planer Tools.
8— Working Drawings and Draft-
ing Room Kinks.
9 Designing and Cutting Cams.
10— Machine Shop Practice.
11— Bearings.
12 — Mathematics of Machine De-
sign.
13— Blanking Dies.
15— Spur Gearing.
16 — Machine Tool Drives.
18—Machinists’ Shop Arithmetic.
20—Spiral Gearing.
23 —Theory of Crane Design.
25. —Deep Hole Drilling.
26 —Punch and Die Construction.
27 — Locomotive Design —Part I.
28— Locomotive Design—Part 11.
29 Locomotive Design —Pa it 111.
30 — -Locomotive Design—Part IV.
32 -Screw Thread Cutting.
33 Drafting Room Practice.
34 — Dynamos and Motors —care and
repair.
36 Iron and Steel.
37 — Bevel Gearing.
38 — Grinding Machines
40 — Fly Wheels.
41— Jigs and Fixtures.
44 Machine Blacksmithing.
45 Drop Forging.
46 Hardening and Tempering.
47 — Electric Overhead Cranes.
48— Files and Filing.
52. —Advanced Shop Arithmetic.
53—Use of Logarithms, etc.
70—Steam Engines.
72 —Pumps, Condensers, etc.
AND MANY OTHERS.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.
TECHNICAL BOOK DEPARTMENT,
476 George Street, Sydney
(OPPOSITE QUEEN
VICTORIA MARKETS).
, ( ?rv
AM
AW '-f
i eh
ii -
5.V
¥
y^ x^x>
“ I Can’t Play To-night
—l’m Out of Practice.”
Tf How many times you ve heard that excuse and geneially
you learn to your regret that it is only too true.
•jf Practice—hard practice —is necessary to the playing of
every musician except one and that one is yOll,
when you perform on the
Stecß Pianola Piano
Played in two ways j
by hand
by music=roll.
IMAGINE it! —In one moment you can
equal the musicianship of pianists who
have spent years in study. You can play
famous compositions without ever practising
their difficult passages, and so admirably
that a person in another room would not
detect the difference.
lIYou can immediately abandon yourself to
the feeling of the playing—with all the
fervor of your temperament. Do you wish to
play airs ivith a lively, martial, happy } G -
Do it. Do you wish to play crooning, moan-
ing, tender music with a sigh and a sob to
it ? Do it
Steck Pianola Piano is so sympathetic
to your slightest intention, that it almost
seems to “understand” your inner self. You
can’t be gay without the Pianola Piano re-
flecting it in the playing. You can’t be sad
without the Pianola Piano being sad too.
It relieves better than tears. It biigbtens
better than laughter. As you grow more
familiar with it, you both improve together.
IfYou will be delightfully surprised when you
hear the Steck Pianola Piano —and that you
may have that pleasure opportunity we ex-
tend a most cordial invitation to call upon
us at Pianola Hall to-day, to-morrow or any
other time suitable to your convenience. Re-
member our prices are not high.
pf unable to call, let us send you a Catalog
of the Steck Pianola Piano. We will send it
free if you will write and ask us for —•
Catalog B.
IM*
the pianola company,
252 Collins Stre f'^^o E
88 Rundle Street, ADELAIDE,
and 436-438 Queen Street, BRISBANE
357 George Street (next David Jones Ltd.), Sydney.
London, Berlin, New York, etc.
m


A STITCH IN TIME
SAVES YOU NINE.
FARMER’S BONUS SALE
Saves you 10 per cent,
on every Cash Purchase.
SALE BEGINS MONDAY, JANUARY 6
MANY SWEEPING REDUCTIONS
On all summer goods—all surplus stocks
LESS THE BONUS OF 2/- IN THE £
The whole of our vast
ILLUSTRATED SALE CATALOGUE Post Free on request to country patrons.
FARHER’S -SYDNEY
PITT, MARKET & GEORGE STREETS.
BEST LEMON SQUASH.
COOLS THE BLOOD—PROMOTES HEALTH
good° U as C o n T ne Co h? S r ‘‘Kia-Ora” bmnd.^ThisT^ 8 k
fs%e e comm™ded Sh wfthThTltmlrcon S fi U d gar 0 "F
in hot weather when lemon-Mce is fo ” use
freshing and so health-giving “irL £ ,? olln S’ re-
excellence to the choice g fruit' used K to° r n a ° Wes its
regard for Parity and cleanliness and f rupulous
methods of manufacture. Compare Speaial
made or other bottled 1 Wlth horne-
ts superiority.* gashes, and you will notice
WHEN
YOU GET
CLEMENTS
TONIC
YOU GET HEALTH TOO.
Nurse Catherine Kortint nf
Brunswick, Victoria, write?™’ f
I arS a9 ° aS a nurse
I first used Clements Tonic, and I
have presented it times out of
thjTday th h °h e Seen people bless
IHE DAY they heard of if.”
WJpEMISTS § STORES SELL IT.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, December 30, 1912.
My Dear Yarrie, —
The recent excursion of G.-G. Denman and
his staff of polo players to South Australia
almost depleted the Melbourne supply of
Helps; but a tall, thin survivor was avail-
able when her Ex. decided to go fishing
in the trout streams at Warburton. It is
very doubtful, though, whether he cared for
the job. The flies seemed to trouble him
terribly; and, while the fisher-lady was
scrambling into the country coach at the end
of the train-journey, he was still busy with
a whisk of ebony and silver and horsehair.
The contrivance or machine must have
weighed about 31b.; but, in the face of the
tormenting insects, its weight did not seem
to matter.
When last heard of, Governor Fuller was
playing cricket with the college boys at
Geelong. Thus the long year’s labors end.
Cup-time engagements are beginning to
put forth the regular “announcement” that
sanctifies in the eye of Society. One matri-
monial compact, soon to be unveiled for con-
gratulations, came about through the blow-
ing down of the marquee at a fashionable
dance. At 4 a.m., or thereabouts, just when
the fashionable bacon and eggs postscript-
supper was due, a sudden squall tore the
canvas from its moorings and threw it over
the heads of the revellers. One blinded
couple thought their last hour had come, and
plighted their troth in muffled voices among
the ruins of the palms.
Dr. Archie Hug, of Collins-street, has suc-
cumbed to the prevailing epidemic. He is
engaged to Doris Duckett, daughter of
Arthur Duckett, of Castleberg, Queen’s-road.
Miss Doris is a black-eyed beauty just out
of the. flapper stage, who made the last damp
Cup-time a dazzling “first season.” She
drives her own car, and is otherwise notable
for cutting a particular dash on the Glaci-
arium ice.
Rose . Clarke, daughter of Marcus, will
be married to Brereton Bradley, on Decem-
ber 30, at Malvern.
St. Paul’s Cathedral sheltered one of
the last fashionable weddings of the year.
The leading lady’s part was taken by Hester
Mitchell, of the Fanecourt Mitchells. (The
late William Fanecourt Mitchell, knight,
was for years President of our House of
Rich Landlords.) The leading man was
William Duke Armit, son of Captain Armit,
of Castle Jordan, King’s Co., Ireland. The
bride, a fine-looking girl, wore a gown built
on classic lines, and marched at the head of
a band of maidens who looked like delect-
able pieces of pink-and-white cocoanut ice.
Maie Ryan, Doy Bird, the two Piggott
flappers, and three Mitchell sisters were
the dimpled bits of sweetness. Like the
bride, they were gowned in classic style,
with chaplets of green leaves on their burn-
ished hair, while their rounded arms were
filled with deep-red roses. Frank Carse,
Robert Cain, Mervyn Higgins and a few
other beautiful youths acted as groomsmen.
The Best People motored to Fanecourt for
the toasting, after which the pair departed
to the Mitchell house at Macedon. The
bridegroom has bought Bindi station in
Gippsland.
Blonde-haired Eunie Russell, in spite of
all temptations to belong to other nations,
will take her wedding march on the arm of
a Chinese husband next Thursday (Janu-
ary 2). Parson Hughes is to bless the union
of Miss Russell and Thomas J. Chia at St.
Peter’s on the Hill, whence the invited guests
will adjourn to the Oriental —a renewed,
enlarged and very enticing hotel in these
days—for the cake-cutting ceremonv. A
thousand and one friends and acquaintances
of the bride-elect hope that the parson’s
blessing will be fully justified in the future.
The Macartney-Zichy-Woinarski wedding
bristled with swords, some of which came
from Duntroon. The bride Alexandrina,
daughter of Dr. Woinarski, is a grand-
daughter of the late Gustav Zichy, who was
A.D.C. to General Prince Woroniecki. (I
forget for the moment what he did, but
have an idea he was shot by General Desire
when Bill Adams stormed the Bastille.)
The bridegroom, Captain Keith Macartney,
of Bananaland, is a grandson of the late
Dean Macartney. He had the assistance
and moral support of a brother officer as
best man, and a batch of Duntroon cadets
provided a guard of honor. The subsequent
celebrations were held at Wolfdene. Finally
the bridesmaids, sisters Valerie and Onie,
bundled the bride into a navy-blue travel-
ling suit, and the newly-weds motored to
Flinders for a golfing honeymoon.
The Beatrice Holloway-“ Bob” Greig
wedding, the other day, had to be deferred
until a general move-on of the “Wallingford”
Co. temporarily extinguished the footlights
lhe show finished in Melbourne on a Thurs-
day, and left for Maoriland, via Sydney, the
next day. Thursday night saw the stave
covered with confetti, flowers and good
wishes. Next afternoon the wedding was
staged or altared at St. Peter’s, and sub-
sequently there. was a . jolly champagne
party at the Oriental, while the Sydney ex-
press was getting up steam at Spencer-
street. The bride, blue-eyed, dimpled and
glowing, was trimly tailored in powder-blue
cloth, and wore a wreath of forget-me-nots
in her hat. Mrs. Holloway, her juvenile-
looking mother, wept and smiled in a
banana-colored suit under a very French
hat. Tommy Cochrane, indispensable at
fashionable weddings and secular theatri-
cals, best-manned the plump young groom.
Colonel Ballenger’s daughter, in dainty
white, acted as bridesmaid, and carried as
staff of office a pink parasol with pink roses
lashed to the handle. Mrs. Watt and Bon-
nie Watt, both in blue, assisted generally.
Parson Hughes, who is kept busy marrying
off the Best People, said charming things
over the rim of his glass. The “Walling-
ford” people came in force to wish the pair
luck, ere scattering to catch the impatient
train.
Sleepy Castlemaine will soon be called
upon to part with solicitor Max Best, who
has drawn a prize in the matrimonial lot-
tery. Wife Mabel’s share in defunct papa
Whitty’s scattered Riverina estate goes well
over £30,000. When probate matters have
been put through, the pair will hurry off to
England. They have not taken return
tickets. Two unattached sisters of the
bride, both smart tennis players, intend to
stay on in the sunny land that has yielded
them their wealth.
A musical Bendigo maiden of gilded par-
entage seems to travel cheerfully in a whirl-
wind of matrimonial engagement rumors.
Her gossipy friends at present insist that she
is engaged to a Dago sculptor; but the imag-
inative lady herself is abroad, and it is quite
possible that she may become disengaged by
post. Her home-loving parents must have
quite a busy time considering prospective
sons-in-law. I forget what the yearly aver-
age is.
The most interesting of Melbourne spin-
sters for the moment is the heiress engaged
in supervising the order for a large and
comprehensive wedding trousseau, with no
fixed idea as to the identity of its future
lord. Her intentions are said to waver be-
tween a titled person of suitable age and an
ardent boy who is almost young enough to
be a flapper’s twin. The lovely trousseau
is a fact, and the matrimonial occurrence
within the next three months is almost a cer-
tainty, but the psychological moment for
picking the winner has not yet arrived.
The latest divorce case on the list conveys
the same old moral to evildoers: Never put
your illicit feelings on paper—except in
cypher. An amorous letter written by an
indiscreet medico to a handsome stage lady
brought a mild scandal to a grave crisis. The
adored one, actress-like, had merely crumpled
the tender missive and thrown it carelessly
into her ribbon-trimmed basket. The jealous
wife, visiting the flat while Madam was
motoring, found the crumpled evidence and
duly straightened it out. Then the news
reached the absent husband of the mummer-
ess, and now there is the proverbial d—l
to pay. In fact, several of them, all wear-
ing wigs. The case in which the medico
figures as co-re. is listed for the March sit-
tings, and there is, of course, the sporting
chance of another to follow.
“Sr ” throws this across the Strait: —
Re the gossip about Blanche Brown and her matri-
monial intentions. The young man is Mr. Mclntyre,
and when Blanche knocks off wearing her little grey
bonnets for keeps, her home will be alongside the
Tamar River (Tas.), in the midst of some apple-tree
shades. The humpy is to be built very shortly.
Mrs. Langdon has daughter Dorothy with
her in the hills, where they are enjoying a
rest after the fever of trousseau gathering.
Early in the year Dorothy is to marry Mr.
Campbell, of Mildura —an interesting young
man whom she accidentally hit in the face
with a golf stick. His subsequent black eye
and her intense sympathy ripened a slight
playing acquaintance into a deep attachment
and a prompt engagement. The Langdons
have taken the Brett house in South Yarra
for the marriage feast.
A bit of commotion has been caused by
the resignation—no, retirement—of Captain
Hardy, officer in charge of the Navy Dep6t,
\\ llhamstown. The authorities won’t say
what’s the matter; but it is pretty sudden,
anyhow, for Hardy was brought out from
England only six months ago. According
to a man who should know, he first got to
loggerheads with Minister Pearce and Ad-
miral Cresswell through, curiously enough
scoffing at their idea of importing English
officers and a stiffening of men for the Aus-
tralian navy. Probably something else hap-
pened; but that was the little rift within
the lute that since has made all Hardy’s
music mute.
Laurie Taylor, the long-haired young man
who for years drooped round Mel-
bourne under the self-imposed burden of Art
for Art s sake, has suddenly abandoned the
unremunerative ideal and started designing
distinctively Australian wall-papers for an
artistic London firm. He is now threatened
Wl H* , a rush of cash to the pocket, and is
said to be contemplating matrimony with a
pretty Australian girl he used to hopelessly
adore during his intensely Artful period. '
A woman who has been greatly missed in
Society scampers of late is Mrs. Hallidav
who lost her husband three months ago and
has ever since led the subdued life. The
popular lady is shortly going abroad, and
will spend some time with the widowed Lady
Northcote. The two were very close friends
during the Northcote reign, and probably
look forward to exchanging consolations in
the wintry northern clime.
May Vale has lately kept herself busy
painting a blue native flower with a baffling
official label. The blossom grows luxuriantly
in the ferny country near Melbourne, and
the artist wonders dazedly why the beauti-
ful thing is not cultivated and raved about
by the garden enthusiasts who minister with
hose and watering-pot to less lovely things.
Boronia has deservedly captured London,
and is sold in all the best florists’ shops. But
there are other Australian flowers that are
worthy of being cherished and advertised.
They take kindly to garden soils, and develop
wonderfully with a fraction of the care that
culturists give to roses, daffodils and other
slave-owners. Boronia, by the way, flour-
ishes in Switzerland, and industrious moun-
taineers cultivate big fields of it for perfume
and cut blooms. And here is a humili-
ating truth. Nowadays, foreign-made boronia
perfume is imported into its native Aus-
tralia ! Are we really as slow as all that, or
does all the blame belong to our lamentable
politicians?
The very latest idea in the circles where
money is cheap-and-easy is to have the ball-
room floor built on springs. The innovation
lends wings to the feet of good dancers, and
takes quite a stone off the waltzing weight of
clumsy sister Sarah, who is programmed by
every knowing young man as a “duty.”
The Congress for the Advancement of
Science will be opened in Melbourne on Jan-
uary 7, when delegates from all over Aus-
tralia and every other quarter of the globe
will rise and speak the truth that is in them.
The Gaud Mayor will start the social pill
rolling by entertaining them in the Town
Hall on January 8. The National Gallery
and the Museum will be shown to the learned
people, and the trustees are wailing and
wringing their hands because a very wise
regulation will not permit them to expend
some of their funds in hospitality. They
even approached the Law on the subject,
but the answer was a decided “No!”
Olive Godwin, who has been taking a holi-
day in London whilst looking into theatrical
opportunities, returns to Australia in March.
Seemingly, the opportunities were not allur-
ing.
Melbourne girls have just parted sadly
with a popular young bachelor, the Herbert
Powers’ son Vivian, who is off to Queens-
land, where father has secured for him the
management of a northern station.
I hear of a publican in a small up-country
township who early in December offered a
Christmas box, consisting of a pair of gold
and cameo earrings and a cameo brooch, to
the unloveliest unmarried female in the dis-
trict. I know the district well, and there
should have been no dearth of applicants—
it is “the loveliest village of the plain” sung
of by the bard. That isn’t the fault of the
girls; they have been devoted to cow from
their earliest years, and the influence of cow
is fatal to beauty. But the publican had
only seven applications for the prize, which
was given to a black gin, not because of her
preponderating plainness, but for her perti-
nacity—she had applied seven times.
Ivy Clarke, of the baroneted family, is
leaving Australia for a wander, and one
more cabriolet guaranteed “as good as new”
is providing trial spins to prospective buyers
and others.
Lily Brayton, on her Melbourne reappear-
ance, gave her special stage-maidens pre-
sents of vanity boxes. They retaliated with
a crimson butterfly made of flowers, and
had the insect shoved over the footlights
when she was about half-way through with
Antony’s career.
Will Dyson, who has brought mud and
lightning about his head by an audacious
caricature of George V., has one.of the pret-
tiest wives in London. A Melbourne trav-
just returned from England, says Mrs.
Will s full-grown loveliness is even more
lovely than the youthful beauty that dis-
tinguished her in her Ruby Lindsay girl-
hood. ‘Such lines!” moans the returned
one.
Ida Fenner, whose beauty-sister was re-
warded with a heavily-gilded Chirnside, is
sending out cards to her friends, intimating
her willingness to save them the fatigue of
furnishing or decorating their homes, and
arranging their frivols. This sort of job is
just now rushed in London by girls who
thirst tor an income.
■s°,°% Whiting, after a long argument
with family headquarters, is smiling at her
fnends from the other side of the footlights
in Antony and Cleopatra.” This, as she
has confided to a chum, is “only for a begin-
ning.” Eileen, the elder and likewise un-
conventional sister, developed a talent for
black and white, and is sticking to her hobby
in London, under the eye of artist Bunny.
Once more the rumor circulates around
the Commonwealth Offices that two distin-
guished Sydney doctors—one an eminent
surgeon and the other a physician—have had
their services . officially commended to the
British authorities with a view to the inclu-
sion of their names in an early “Honors” list.
I rom my Adelaide correspondent •
Governor-^Geiiend’s 3 polo^team^ngaged'our T*’
; h a rrth
v^ey di fa a s y e„°L“ h 0 S
that Labor hating n countn Ve a f? r a I ? oment
tea on Thursday was Syen bv thPh The
whose son and heir is cantain^f*i r<^ Smiths ’
This may have had someth^ L Ade I aide tes ®-
that the Smith team the fact
Denman combination. A great done"?* °* Ut ° f
Saturday the visitors got a ? bit of +hV tea " r. 0n
and the “combined count™ their . own back,
bite the dust. In fact the wXh 7V ™P elled to
ate the substance which’ is such f' buc ° llcs fairly
streets. This time and
Frank Downer were joint hostesses. Bowmans, Mur-
rays, Melroses and Stirlings were there; also Barr
Smiths. George Deans, Rymills, Kyffin Thomases
Cecil Brays (recently back from England), Water-’
houses and Laughtons. And, of course, the State Gov-
ernment House people turned up.
Society didn’t flock much to the cricket match
though Lord Denman and our own particular Gover-
nor strolled down for a little while on Friday.
Moyes, who was run out for 64, or 604, or some vast
figure of that sort, is said to have a glittering future
before him. Local enthusiasts talk of recommending
him for the Nobel prize for reviving our almost de-
funct national game.
On Saturday, the world, his wife, his friend’s
wife, and about 700 bookmakers and assorted spielers
attended the Port races. Mr. McFarlane scored a
win with Townit, and there were some comforting
tote dividends in the neighborhood of £lO,
Our anti-hatpin movement is in full swing, ahd
offenders are being apprehended right and left, As
an admirer put it the other day, our indigenous
police mayn't be much good at detecting burglars
murderers, etc., but as trackers-down of hatpin crim-
inals, they are matchless,
Mr. T. S. Reed was knocked down by the Glenelg
train last week. The train escaped practically un-
scathed ; and, of course, Mr. Reed wasn’t hurt. Ydu
Will remember that, a Week or so back, lie Was
knocked down by a trap. Mere trifles these to nn
Adelaidean of 94.
Le Poer Trench, a Well-knoWn bank manager and
a popular member of the golf club, died at Pert
Adelaide on Saturday, after a brief illness. And
Philip Lane, Who had been closely connected with
the history of the Burra copper mining town for 50
years, died on Wednesday.
Adelaide’s newest K.C. is C. E. Cleland, partner
of Josiah Symon, also K.C.; and when a K C’s
partner is given the silk gown, there’s something in
the wind. Possibly in this case it means a Justice
Symon before long. The new K.C. is a son of the
late J. F. Cleland, one-time Registrar in S.A He
is vice-president of the S.A. Law Society and chair
man of the S.A. Football League, and belongs to
the tribe whose chief was that fine old patriarch
Samuel Davenport, who started the Australian olive-
oil industry at Beaumont, the place where the new
silk was born 44 years ago. Besides law, Symon
and Cleland have this in common—they are both
interested in winegrowing. Symon owns Auldana
one of the finest vineyards in Australia.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.
King-street, Sydney, was thrown into con-
fusion on Saturolay afternoon by a car
charging backwards from Elizabeth-street
down the hill towards George-street. The
incident proved that the tramway service
has one brave man among its conductors,
anyhow. Getting to the back of the car!
which had become the front, he clanged his
bell with one foot, while he strained at the
hand-brake in a cool endeavor to stop the
machine. A railway car just about to cross
Jritt-street stopped and ducked just in time
Ihen, as the man at the hand-brake had been
unable to stop the runaway, though he
had checked its speed, it crashed into an-
other car which had just been pulled up.
lhey build rolling-stock solidly in N.S.W.,
which is no doubt one reason why the 20-odd
passengers escaped with slight injuries: but
can thank the white-faced conductor
at the hand-brake for the rest of their luck.
“Hamer” : The purple-faced man was just
dealing with the last of a plate of prawns as
I entered the fish emporium, and the waiter
removed his empty soup-plate and put some
blue-cod in its place. The purple-faced man
finished his last prawn, saw a pint-pot of
stout to its bottom, and reached for the fish.
“I’ll have steak and onions to follow, and
another pot of stout,” he said. Then a
friend of his arrived and nodded to him.
“Often see you here,” remarked the new-
comer. “Come here every day?” The
purple-faced man gazed in his direction like
m We "”,
S, n t*'a m i?A aJ ,- Y h "V eC ' if anydSfag
but a light lunch, I get sleepy during the
?n te r“°° n ' I narrate this incident merely
to draw attention to the absurd ideas of
some people as to what is necessary to keep
body and soul together. Being in 'the habit
of making a light meal off a sirloin of beef
me ah^rri 7 fw a feW etceteras - it seems to
onnri b nf tha t anyone should consider a
quart of stout, half a pint of soun half a
the be^f'nar 1 ? 8 ' ? alf a P °" nd of blue cod and
me best part of a pound of steak a liahf
lunch, or, in fact, any kind of meal at all
Civ”; Another Yankee rocket is billed
to hit our city during the week. His r£-
turns 1 - indudeS the f °ll°wing descriptive
G) What is it? (2) Where if? ro\
H«™' n, A h rf h <”& (3) mo
Character'of ( iVs faKbitaSts. (2) Descri P tion - (3)
ye h a e rs a of a tb C o"h gent ’ S posters account for 20
years ot the boss performer’s life We
drawn crowded housesTn Canlda USA
sramme ,hi alte r or amend the pro-
L S3ES


r \
■ m
m.
m
Wit.
m
m
i
i
I
mm
mm
|;XwXysv!
m
m
Wtt
*L
H&t
m?
mm
§
w.
&&
s£3
n
A
□
/H?
M
0
Visitors to Melbourne will find all the comforts of a refined home at the Oriental.
Large airy bedrooms handsomely furnished and equipped with every modern
convenience.
Electric Lifts —Electrically lighted and Vacuum cleaned.
The Dining Room, Lounges and Cafe mechanically heated —Hot and Cold Water
and Private Telephones in all new rooms.
Laro-e Lounges—Winter Garden —Smoking, Writing, Reading and Billiard Rooms.
Adjoining is the Hotel Garden and Lawn, which has its attractions for Garden
Parties. A 1 fresco Dinners, Teas and After Dinner Assemblies.
The Hotel Orchestra of five performers plays during Dinner every evening, and
for Afternoon Teas on Wednesdays and Fridays.
TARIFF FROJT 151= PER DAY.
Telegraphic Address-** Oriental Hotel, Melbourne.”
G. LOOSEN, General Manager.


High-Class Tailoring at Moderate Prices.
PEPPERS LTD., 167 Kin s st -
===! SYDNEY,
Have secured the services of MR. W. J. WOOD,
late of Hunter Street, and for many years
cutter for Messrs. Peapes & Co. Ltd.—a
cutter of great experience and ability.
CALL and LEAVE YOUR MEASURE When IN TOWN.
No excuse for the pale and anaemic—Stearns’ Wine
Co< l L J, VPr Extract sends ric h red blood coursing
through the veins, makes rosy cheeks, bright and
clear eyes.*
The 1.0. A.
Australians should insure in
this Australian Company
WHY?
Apply for Booklet Free.
The Insurance Office
of Australia Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Hobart, Perth, Rockhampton.
CAN’T SHAKE IT OFF.
, often , we hear persons with colds make the
above remark; but Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
Sf tbe . m of f Promptly and effectively in a few
where.* PnCe ’ S ' 6d ' and 3s ’ obt ainable every-
aaliJmua
Our large stock of the
latest Trusses for all
kinds of Hernia
real boon to sufferers
Denyer’s Special Elastic
Truss, fitted to size
ends all trouble, dis-
comfort and fear.
Call or Write.
DE.NYER BROS.,
2SI nt!! and _ Abdomi nal Belt Makers,
and at Melbourne U,,nterSr ')* S > dne y
e ’ cor - & " anston & Lonsdale Sts.
POLITICAL
POINTS
KILL THAT FLY!
Sam Mauger, the hatter, has secured the
opposition of the Argus, which announces
that it will give him no help, in spite of his
official selection as a Liberal candidate for
the Senate. This will serve to continually
remind Protectionists that Mauger is a
strenuous High Tariffist; wherefore, since
Victoria is so thoroughly Protectionist,
Samuel may be expected to be at the ton of
the Liberal three—or, anyway, very little
below McColl.
“8.N.F.” : Part and parcel of any move-
ment to abolish party politics should be a
provision for the recall of unsatisfactory
representatives. In the United States a
recall clause generally accompanies the in-
itiative and referendum in what is known
as the commission form of government.
Thus, commissioners can be sacked upon
adequate grounds of disapproval by electors.
The recall is the national concomitant of
popular will in running the country. If,
after a reasonable chance, a public official
shows unfitness or want of ability, it is
but a fair thing that the people who were
misled should have power to rectify the
error.
The Rich Landlords of Victoria had a
glorious time in the last hours of the just-
closed session. They tossed out the Rating
on Unimproved Values Bill, restricted the
application of the Boilers Inspection Bill to
cities and towns, bowdlerised the Harbor
Trust Bill, wiped out of the Closer Settle-
ment Bill the compulsory purchase provi-
sions, struck out of the Loan Application
Bill the item devoting £25,000 towards the
erection of a decent wholesale market near
Princes Bridge, nullified the Factories Act
Amendment Bill by passing five unimpor-
tant clauses and knocking out 33 that did
matter, and generally stamped their large
hoofs on every measure of any consequence.
As Watt and his supporters accepted the
Council’s amendments and “suggestions” in
a conciliatory, not to say chastened, spirit,
and offered not the shadow of a fight against
any of them, it is obvious that these half-
dozen fairly-large landowners could abso-
lutely block all legislation if they took it
into their heads to do so. Somehow this
paper rather wishes they would. If the
Fats decided to block all legislation it is
just possible something might happen.
From an old N.S.W. political campaigner:
This Blayney fight is one of the most curious I
ever had a hand in. Throughout the electorate Labor-
ites are disappointed with Labor, and Liberals are
disgusted with their mob. This means that Beeby is
going to score heavily, partly on his personality,
partly because “he chucked up a good job.” And if
Beeby is returned things are going to happen. Now
that support of the Referenda is part of the Labor
policy, there are a few rabid State Frighters in the
party who are prepared to leave it if they can get
another branch to roost on. There are also in the
Labor party a number of members who are not keen
on red-ragging, and who think that the pendulum has
swung so far over that the time for the swing-back
is getting very close. They, too, are looking for
another branch to roost on. But, all told, they do
not make a strong party. On the other side there are
a number of Liberals who, like Miller of Bathurst,
desire to “enlarge and broaden the so-called Liberal
platform.” They will coalesce with the dissentient
Laborites if they can agree on a leader. A third
party in favor of decentralisation, non-borrowing and
harmonious working with the Australian Parliament
would be a God-send to this suffering State ; but the
threatened collection of State Frighters will be a poor
thing. Fortunately, we have the second ballot, and
that may save the country some inflictions at the next
election.
General manager Knox, of the C.S.R., has
issued to the shareholders “some notes on
the findings afid recommendations of the
majority of the Sugar Commission” —the
dreadful commission which found that the
only thing to save the refining industry from
nationalisation was the fixing of prices by
some Commonwealth authority. The nature
of Mr. Knox’s one-eyed reply can he told
from the very first page:—
We have never had a serious dispute with one of
the primary producers concerned, though we have
bought their crops for 40 years, and how can we be
accused of starving our suppliers when they have
received, on an average, more for their cane than
the growers who sell to the Central mills, and, being
shareholders, take the manufacturing profits ?
Mr. Knox omits to mention that the Central
mills are in the hollow of the C.S.R. Co.’s
hand, just the same as any other producer.
The growers sell to those Central mills, cer-
tainly, but what the Central mills can
afford to pay to the growers depends abso-
lutely on what the C.S.R., the one buyer of
raw sugar, will pay them.
Bamford’s motion carried in the House
of Representatives lately, that when a mem-
ber feels himself misrepresented in the press,
and makes a personal explanation with
which the House is satisfied, the newspaper
which has done the misrepresenting shall b°
excluded from the House until it has given
space and prominence to the explanation
equal to that devoted to the alleged offence,
seems to be about a fair
thing. The liberty of the
press isn’t in the least
hit by it, and a reason-
able balance of truth and
fiction is likely to be
maintained in the news
columns. Of course, it
may happen that both
statement and explana-
tion are fictitious, but
two contradictory fic-
tions are at least less
likely to mislead the public than one un-
challenged departure from faith and verity.
“Vic.”: Premier Watt jaunts to London
to raise a £2,000,000 loan and advise on the
conversion of stock. I object to this hum-
bug. If Watt goes for a holiday, let that
be understood. He wants one. But, really,
though a competent Treasurer, he is not a
financier. Premier Shiels did a lot of mis-
chief through dabbling in practical financ-
ing. Watt will never do anything like that;
he will not do anything at all. But let us
bp straight about things.
According to inspired press paragraphs,
the Chief Commissioner of Railways for
N.S.W. gets his coal supply from about 20
different collieries, and could not, however
well disposed to a State coal mine, draw his
supplies from the latter source alone. The
reason given is the excessive cost of haulage.
Very well; but if it would cost too much to
haul coal from one centre to supply all
N.S.W., it must cost too much to haul the
whole produce of N.S.W. to one deep-sea
port. If decentralisation is practised in one
matter, let us at least be consistent and
practise it all round.
UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT-
ACCORDING TO ST. HENLEY.
The mills of God grind slowly, but they grind ex-
ceeding small, and it will be noted that nothing
but bad luck and untoward events have crowded in
upon the Labor Government, from the Nielsen resig-
nation to the Beeby breakaway.— Henley, M.L.A.
But that's not all. The Liberal prophet for-
got to mention the hereafter and the reception
awaiting those wretched souls who dared deny
electoral allegiance to St. Gregory Wade, and
scorned the teachings of the great evangelists, the
HERALD AND THE TELEGRAPH.
“Norm”: Carty Salmon, a Vic. Senate
candidate, got a shock the other evening.
He was talking to a meeting of lady politi-
cals, and said he felt shame that Australia
had so long allowed the poor, overburdened
British taxpayer to defend Australia. Then
came a voice from the back: “My troubles
about the British taxpayer!” Hooray! I
say. A dreadful lot of piffle has been talked
and written on this subject. The truth is
Britain maintained some sort of a fleet in
these waters, not to defend this country or
its people, but to safeguard its own tucker.
Britain keeps, and must keep, a navy to pro-
tect the vast shipping which is engaged all
over the globe collecting food it refuses to
grow on its own soil, where it prefers to raise
pheasants, rabbits, deer, grouse, salmon,
Russian Jews, German barons, American
dollaraires, Spanish hidalgos, Polish counts
and other exotics.
HOW IT IS DONE.
LIBERAL CANVASSER : “My good man, yonder
I see your charming home with all its
tender associations and its sacred memories.
Do you know what will happen if the
Labor party carries its Referenda proposals?
It will declare your home a monopoly,
nationalise it, and it will be ruthlessly
torn from you.” (Another vote is captured
for Liberalism.)
A few Russians from the Siberian steppes
wandered ashore the other day at Darwin o
see for themselves if white men could live
in the Australian tropics. Provided they
don’t try to live too fast, their trouble will
eventually be how to die there Jgdggrly
some recent examples, the aged lerntorial,
when he has enjoyed his full share of years
and kept his heirs waiting until well in„o
middle age, has to pack his bag and sail
smith in search of a complaint wherewith to
end the”chapter. It isn't the white man that
“n’t live in the tropics—it is his germs.
The dairy farmer is an interesting Cuss.
He raves about the iniquity of Socialistic
11 ‘ schemes, and loudly asserts the
sanctity of Private Enterprise.
Then lie starts co-operative but-
ter and bacon societies to bump
Private Enterprise out. After
that, elated by the success of
his co-operative factories, he
reaches out for a co-operative
line of steamers, to run in
opposition to the North Coast
(N.S.W.) Co., and he also pro-
poses united action by the but-
ter factories to crush the Pri-
vate Enterprise agent out of ex-
istence in Sydney by establish-
ing one large co-operative but-
ter-handling concern there. In
short, he piously believes that
Private Enterprise can do the
thing better and cheaper—for
everybody but himself.
At last Australia has some
rifles of its own manufacture.
There are only five so far, but
any number of parts are now
lying about in Lithgow ready
to be put together. The fac-
tory has been opened six
months, and, though six months
seems a long time to wait for
the first output of things that
may be wanted in a tremendous
hurry, the progress has been feverish, compar-
atively speaking. For instance, the Northern
Territory railway is still in the condition
known as “under consideration,” and a
Ministerial statement was made the other
day to the effect that after some further
looking round and flying surveys along the
route from Port Augusta to Oodnadatta, it
will be decided whether any of the present
line to Central Australia requires pulling
up. This haste in dealing with about the
most important public work in the Com-
monwealth’s Defence programme must be
making some of the officers giddy.
The Bulletin remarked shortly after
the State Rights section of the McGowen
Government started their “Eviction” agita-
tion, that one of the objects at the back of
it was to re-instal the State Governor in
Macquarie-street. As was to be expected,
Holman and his associates scouted the idea
—they had to, seeing that they are pledged
to the abolition of the office of State Gov-
ernor. However, it becomes more obvious
that in this respect they were indulging in
mental reservations —to put it civilly. Just
before leaving for England Holman men-
tioned that if the blundering “patriots” who
have gone to law over this matter succeed
in their action, the only course open to the
State Government will be to hand the place
over to Sir Gerald Strickland. He might
as well have remarked while he was about
it that that is what will be done. In what
read like an inspired par. the S. M. Herald
said last week :
It is more than likely that the new State Governor
will be quartered there, with an area of ground in
extent about equal to that suggested by the Governor-
General.
This new departure will please the State
Frights immensely; the utterly unnecessary
office will be perpetuated on a basis about
20 times more secure than before; and N. S.
Wales’s first Labor Government will be able
to claim full credit for the calamity.
In the last 7f years, to the end
of September, 13,117 Chinese, so
far as is known, had landed in Aus-
tralia, 17.985 had departed, and
466 had been refused admittance.
In the first nine months of 1912
there were 52 who formally knocked
at the door and were bowed away;
1972 were let in and 2219 went
out. The figures look satisfactory
if you don’t look much. In the first
place, the departure of Ah Sin is
always known and tallied, whereas it is
pretty certain that he often arrives, especi-
ally in the unwatched North, without pub-
lishing the event. Secondly, the number re-
fused admission is almost ludicrous. Out of
every 28 arriving only one is returned as
ineligible; or, to put it another way, of
every 40 who return to China, 28 use their
exemption papers to come back, and only
on e is bowled out using someone else’s,
while 11 wily aliens are so thriftless that
they let the valuable papers go to waste!
James Watt, of Melbourne, has had the
bad luck to be dropped on as an example
and a warning to others —he is the first per-
son who has been fined under the Common-
wealth Electoral Act (1911) for failure to
get. his name placed on the electoral rolls.
It. is a gentle hint to all Australia to make
trmnds with a policeman and have a look at
the roil at the nearest station.
OBSERVATIONS ON THE POLITICAL SITUATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Within the State of New South Wales
The solid Labor leaders clung
To office with their teeth and nails
And mocked the curses round them flung;
Scant was their toil, and small their fame,
Their larger work remained undone;
But what were scorn, abuse and blame
To those in jobs where cash is won?
(And the Sydney press Was wont to address Its
numerous readers In truculent leaders Denouncing
the mob Who clung to their job, While there on
the mat Were the chosen of Fat Getting cold in
the feet —Though their language showed heat —
While they waited in pain For a chance to rega'n
Their positions anew With intention to do What
the infamous crew Who refused to let go And
clung on to the show Had been all the time doing,
While widely bestrewing Australia with gall
Simply nothing at all.)
But people watching from the street,
The way the simple game was played,
Desired to jump with both their feet
As hard on Holman as on Wade.
They cried: “All parties are alike.
We need an axe to set us free,
A large, sharp axe wherewith to strike
Both Tweedledum and Tweedledee.”
(But the morning press Of Sydney town Remarked
with stress That the old renown Of Tweedledum
was really great, And if their readers would only
wait, His own blunt axe would set them free By
knocking pieces off Tweedledee.)
The time was ripe, a man arose,
The man as Beeby known to fame,
He snapped his fingers at his foes
And scorned the mob from which he came;
He laughed at all their jealous spite,
He made his large intentions known
To wage a most terrific fight
And form a party of his own.
(And the Sydney papers With curious capers Were
trying to praise His tricks and his ways, And to
make it quite plain, Though 'they mightn’t refrain
From backing another And trying to smother His
chance of regaining His seat by explaining How
he fractured the edge Of the large Labor pledge,
That they really did like Him to go out on strike
And hoped he would find The electors quite kind
When he stated his views, Though they still might
refuse, For the matter of that, To return him
instead Of a man pledged to Fat. But whatever
was said, They were sure that he knew One thing,
if not two, And the side of his bread On which
cow-extract grew.)
Now all men rapt in wonder stand
While torrents of wild language flow,
And Christmas bells throughout the land
In vegetable silence grow;
And Beeby, where his words are sown,
Has need of all his mother wit
To make a party of his own
And keep it small enough to fit.
(But even the blithersome Sydney press Must know
that a Beeby more or less Doesn’t matter the
whisk of three wallabies’ tails To the men and
women of New South Wales. Australia, with
never a pause in her stride, Brushes the fretful
insect aside As if she hadn’t a moment to lose;
While Andy Fisher and Billy Hughes Are playing
their Tweedledee by the book To the Tweedledum
of Deakin and Cook.)
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


maim
appeal to the artistic tastes of all true lovers
of music.
Both musically and artistically the Superb
Ronisch Piano meets every requirement.
Its touch is even, and responsive. Its tone
full, pure and sympathetic.
The osch is sold at an exceedingly
moderate price considering its wonderful
value.
It is so well built that it will last a lifetime,
and we sell it covered by our full guarantee.
We can arrange easy time payments to suit
you.
We invite you to visit our Show Rooms
and inspect our latest Ronisch Pianos.
If unable to call, write for our descriptive
catalogue and price list —it’s post free.
w.
H. PALING <a CO., LTD.,
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at NEWCASTLE, LISMORE, BRISBANE, TOOWOOMBA.
mmmm 1
mm
mam «
■ ■
*.x > -t.
&?> "
mm
BBS s
Your Holiday Snapshots
IF you find you have not time to Develop
and Print the Photographs taken while on
your holidays, send them to Harringtons
Ltd. Their expert staff assure the best
possible results from each negative.
The finishing of Amateurs’ Photographic
work has for many years been a specialty at all
our Branches.
If you prefer to print your own negatives, use
Empire Brillyte Paper
and obtain the best results.
HARRINGTONS’ NEW CATALOGUE IS FREE
SEND NOW.
[TD
New Temporary Address—
380 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Auckland (N.Z.) & Wellington (N.Z.)


International Patents and Trade
Marks. Collison & Co.. 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, and Eagle Chambers, Adelaide.
Thirty years’ practice. Correspondence invited.
810-SHOWMEN!
THERE’S onlv one BEST Biograph. We can prove
it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE.” Send for Cata-
logue. Sole Agents: Jerdan’s, Ltd., 393 George Street,
Sydney.
Martin’s Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. Ladies recommend
them. Be sure you get tfye genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist. Southampton.*
OLD BELMORE RESIDENT.
MR.'THOMAS GRAHAM SAYS HE AND
HIS WIFE ARE BOTH GREAT
BELIEVERS IN DR. MORSE’S
INDIAN ROOT PILLS.
“I have been a resident of Belmore for
26 years,” writes Mr. Thomas Graham, of
Dennis Street, ‘‘l am a great believer in Dr.
Morse’s •' Indian Root Pills, and can
thoroughly recommend them for indigestion
and other internal pains. I find that by
taking one after each meal and two at
nights they aid digestion and drive away that
tired feeling. My wife also has great faith
in them and takes them at regular intervals,
and finds they just suit her constitution. You
have my full permission to use this for
advertising purposes, and I shall be only
too pleased any time to confirm same.”*
* The Queen
of
M°
lli^
a)' lS
Table Waters ?
m
LACER
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Absolutely Pure.
No Preservatives.
E. RESCH S LIMITED, Brewer by Appoint-
ment to his Excellency the Governor-General.
Brewery and Offices: Dowling Street. Redfern, Sydney
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Samuel Langford celebrated the period of
goodwill to men by administering a dogwalloping to
his brother nigger, McVea, on Boxing Night. Truly, he
did it more in sorrow than in anger, and when at last
ne ended a pitiful show by knocking out McVea, he
did it only because he felt the pricks of conscience,
and realised that the bluffing of the public which had
worked so successfully up to that point was likely
to explode at any moment, and land him in a slough
of deprecation. And, after all, the interests of Sam
Langford were above all other earthly considerations.
McVea is a better boxer than Langford; but Lang-
ford is a better fighter than McVea. McVea opened
badly by trying to achieve the closing of Langford’s
right eye as he did aforetime, regardless of the fact
that Langford had long ago evolved a solid defence
against that particular wallop. Still, he got it in
occasionally, and it didn’t make Langford feel any
better. If it had any effect at all, it was to make
the sawn-off one hit McVea harder, and in that first
round Langford was feeling fresh and hitting very
hard. The fair brown belly, with good living lined,
had not begun to make its weight felt, and McVea
looked an anxious nigger as he went to his chair.
He started the second round vimfully by poking his
left into Langford’s angelic countenance quickly and
often. It spoilt Langford’s aim, and put him out
of his stride, and when he got ready to hit after
the interruption he found the other Samuel far away
and out of reach. The bell closed a round that was
distinctly McVea’s. McVea’s stock began to rise.
The third round saw some fierce rallies in which
Langford stopped something which split his bottom
lip slightly. It wasn’t serious, but Langford seemed
to resent it, and came up for the fourth with the
distinct intention of being unpleasant. The disturb-
ance grew lively, and blood, teeth, and general smash
were the order of the going. Towards the end of
the riot Langford swung a sort of half-bred upper-
cut, which drove McVea’s bottom lip against his
top teeth, and put another mouth on the already
richly-dowered ex-idol of Paris. He bled like an
abattoirs; he spat gore by the mouthful; he dripped
blood on Langford’s hair (he has grown a little
lately) ; he smeared it over his shoulder ; and when
he was hit in the face the foam flew over the press-
men. He took nine seconds on the floor, and, when
he got up, he was obviously all but out. But Lang-
ford seemed to get confused, and stood off and looked
at his work instead of finishing him ; and when he
did come in McVea drove one to the eye which set the
tar-baby thinking hard. The fifth saw Langford
down for two seconds, the result of a slip, assisted
by a slight wallop. He bounded up, and McVea
stood off and sparred for wind and time. The
sixth found Langford still boring in, and McVea
meeting him with vicious stabs at the right eye.
McVea dripped blood from his gashed mouth, but
was rapidly coming to himself when he left an
opening and Langford landed a few lefts and rights
which, had they been of the same dynamic quality
as those of the earlier rounds, had sent McVea to
sleep for a week. It looked as though Langford
was tiring badly.
The seventh was mostly drip, drip, drip. Lang-
ford became a red man. Again his close-cropped
hair was scarlet, and long lines and smears of blood
lay along his brown skin. Langford bore in and
smote and smote, but smote without sting, and
McVea responded feebly. McVea was done, and
ready for the slaughter. They were both horribly
slow, and beastly uninteresting. The eighth was
drearier still. Both took some on the jaws in the
rallies, and McVea got to Langford’s body with a
vicious pair. But mostly he just smothered, and
Langford gave up hitting hard. The ninth opened
with McVea getting a rather hard one on the injured
mouth —both mouths, in fact. He responded with a
feeble one in the stomach, the nose and the stomach
again. The 10th saw McVea pasted in the opening
clash, and staggering about helplessly. Tears rolled
down his cheeks; perspiration trickled down h'm :
blood dripped from his awful mouth. Langford
practically gave up hitting, and just pushed him
about the ring, and a fool-audience howled applause.
The 11th was a farce. McVea couldn’t fight, and
Langford wouldn’t. The police moved uneasily in
the seat of the Law, but as no mortal man could
see any punishment being inflicted, the howling joke
continued. The way McVea dripped gore gave things
a strenuous look, but none of the blows given would
have dropped a rabbit: Langford was practising a
bit of fine art, making the glove give a sounding
thwack without hurting his brother nigger. It was
elegant, artistic and very accomplished, but it
wash’t fighting. In the opening of the 12th Lang-
ford’s conscience drove him to paste McVea a little,
and Mac feebly replied. Time was flagrantly wasted
in the clinches; Langford was obviously giving his
battered brother a chance to recover, and only
towards the end of the round did he send in a
few neatly-measured iolts —neatly measured to do
no harm, but very effective in appearance. It was
plain awful. When the 13th started Langford made
a show of hitting his-helpless, driuning rival, and,
apparently, overdid it. McVea fell against the
ropes, and he was so utterly helnless, so obviously
incapable of beating off a well-developed blow-flv,
that Langford simply had to give him the couv de
grace. Nevertheless, he gave it delicately, making
a brave show of landing four on the open jaw.
McVea sagged down, Scott howled the count, and at
nine McVea tried to rise. His trembling legs went
on strike and he slipped back, shook his head and
was declared out. It was a good fight at the begin-
ning, but after the sixth round was barefaced hum-
bug. McVea was whipped bv the end of the fourth
round, and at any time after the fifth Langford
looked capable of knocking him out. And if bis
failure to do it wasn’t deliberate, it looked so like
it that it was just as bad. Anvhow. Sydney doesn’t
want to see any more Langford-McVea scraps. The
Frenchmen are infinitely more entertaining, and look
10,000 times more genuine.
Sydney fight-followers are a curious crowd.
Thus the mob that cheered the dreary make-believe
which disgraced the tail-end of the Langford-McV«i
scrap had mighty little praise for the splendid Balzac
Midwood battle of the previous week. Yet, if ever
there was a fast and strenuous fight in Sydney, it was
then. It was hard to know which to admire most
the bounding, tigerish onslaughts of the leaping
Balzac, or the dogged pluck of Midwood, who, after
being belted for five and a half rounds, and being
sent down three times in one round (to say no-
thing of what happened in other rounds), got up and
won. In the second round Midwood was down twice.
In the fourth he was literally beaten to the floor. In
the sixth and final he was knocked down three times
in short order. It was after a fourth stay on the
floor, due to a slip when he aimed at Balzac and
missed, that Midwood got up and won. Balzac
bounded in to finish his man, missed, received a
smash on the “Adam’s apple,” reeled, and dropped his
hands. The man was for the moment insensible, and
before he could recover Midwood pulled himself right
together and bashed him three times on the jaw.
The Frenchman staggered about; once he tried to
point to his throat; then he leaned over the ropes,
and for a second was dead to the world, knocked out,
but still on his feet. It was a wonderful fight, and
very exciting while it lasted. Had it lasted longer
it would have developed from a rousing spectacle into
a nervous strain.
* * * *
A tremendous crowd poured into Sydney
Stadium on Saturday night, to see the long-looked-
for disturbance between McCoy and Poesy, represent-
ing Australia and France respectively. Unusual in-
terest attached to the scrap, because the first meeting
between them ended somewhat unsatisfactorily, and
it was felt this would be a ding-dong battle, which
would demonstrate how merit stood between them.
But alas for the frailty of human hopes! The
fight was far from interesting, and the ending even
more unsatisfactory. Poesy did not battle up to his
usual standard and allowed McCoy to do the bulk of
the leading; but there were bright, rare occasions
when he flashed forth, and for a few glorious seconds
hurled jaw-shifting wallops around in splendid pro-
fusion. On these occasions McCoy’s face would
assume a ghastly grin, and the gritty Melbournian
more than once showed signs of being badly rattled
—so much so that had the Gaul maintained his
ferocity he would have won. A remarkable thing
about McCoy is the amount of punishment he can
stand about the face without showing any mark, and
although he sustained some bad battering, especially
in the 10th, 11th and 13th rounds, he came out at
the finish looking fit for a theatre party.
As regards the actual boxing merits of the show,
the honors were easily McCoy’s. He played the right
game all through, though, to be sure, he didn’t play
it too nicely. But his general tactics were good. The
Frenchman was too slow, and he seemed to have .no
idea of timing his blows. He can hit a terrific
smash when he likes, but, unfortunately for himself,
cannot shoot it at the psychological moment, and de-
livers it either too soon or too late. McCoy was
distinctly better in that respect, though, in this
case, he missed a larger number than usual. These
Frenchmen are, as a race, babies at the game. They
have yet to develop the punching instinct which is
in the blood of every healthy Briton, for the simple
reason that the race has been using its front hoofs as
fighting weapons for about 1000 years. When the
Gallic friends have been at it a mere fraction of the
same time, judging by the start they have made,
they will be formidable boxers. The end of
Saturday’s argument came very unexpectedly and
unpleasantly. McCoy more than once landed his
blows a trifle low, and in the 15th the Frenchman
protested. He was told to fight on, and immediately
afterwards received another even lower. To the
writer it looked a flagrant foul. Poesy fell, and was
counted out, referee Scott declaring the blow was
legitimate; and as that was borne Aut by a medical
examination, there’s nothing more to be said. All
the same, if the writer were put on his oath he
would have to declare he saw a foul blow struck;
but in the rush and excitement it is easy to make a
mistake, and the doctor’s decision must be accepted
as final.
The taking over of the Stadium by Mr.
Reginald Baker came as a surprise to Sydney. But,
if Mr. Mclntosh had definitely made up his mind to
dispose of it, the place could not have fallen into
better hands. “Snowy” Baker is blessed with the
public confidence to a degree rarely attained by any
sporting promoter ; he knows the boxing game from A
to Z, and his management is a guarantee that the
rugged straightness of the recent energetic and fluent
proprietor will continue to be the order of the going. It
is darkly suspected that the real reason the sometime
Mclnstoiish gave it up was that he felt that if he
stayed there much longer he would be getting into
his own ring and killing some of his own niggers,
which would be bad for business.
* * * *
Tahmmy Burns has been opening his top-
piece again, this time to claim the championship of
the world, owing to the enforced retirement of one
Jack Johnson, busted. Tahmmy has completed ar-
rangements for a 15-round battle with Bombardier
Wells, the Englishman, to take place at Burns’s
own stadium at Calgary, Canada, on March 17 this
year. The prize money is £7500, and with charac-
teristic modesty Burns has decided to take £5OOO
of it, win, lose or draw. Wells will get £2500
and the chance of winning the championship, or as
much of it as the world concedes to Burns. Some-
how, we seem to have heard similar tales about
Burns entering the ring; but, also, somehow,
Burns never gets there. He is said to be making
tons of money promoting fights; which, in some re-
spects, is easier than winning them with the gloves.
The news of this impending battle interested
“Snowy” Baker immensely, and he at once started
cabling with a view to securing it for Sydney.
He had intended to try to arrange for an appear-
ance of Wells in Australia.
* ♦ * *
The Yankee bruisers who have killed the
promoter that lays the golden dollars in N’Yuk tried
the same game with Mclnstoush, when Kelly, his
envoy, approached them re coming to Australia. Joe
Jeanette was willing to come if Johnson was a cer-
tainty, but when he heard the long smoke was an
impossibility he turned down the arrangement unless
he got enough to keep him for the rest of his life.
Jack O’Brien asked for a fortune for the whole
family in return for his young brother’s appearance
at Rushcutter’s Bay, and Kelly decided he wasn’t
worth it. Quite a crowd of them, who, although
good fighters and coming men, were not world cele-
brities by any means, also demanded terrific sums to
make the trip. They had swollen head, accompanied
by insatiable greed : and the result was that Kelly
came back home without bringing one Yankee with
him.
* * * *
The Board of Control is averse to a pub-
lic inquiry into the doings and alleged goings-on of
certain members of the Australian XI. Of course, it
may turn out that the stories told are wild exag-
gerations, in which case the Board considers pubiici y
is undesirable. If the charges are sustained, it is
understood that the Board will make its findings ana
recommendations public ; for it must be rememberea
that the Board has no power to punish the scape-
graces, that being reserved to the associations to
which they belong. The Board’s committee will
be merely an inquiring body, which will take evi-
dence and make recommendations to the associations
interested. The associations can go so far as to dis-
qualify men for life for all grades of cricket, while
the Board can only deal indirectly by instructing
selectors not to consider certain names when choos-
ing players for matches that are controlled by the
Board. Which means, probably, the various associa-
tions will deal out different penalties for the same
offences.
* * * *
Anyhow, Victor Trumper must admit that
the N.S.W. and Vic. Cricket Associations and the
Board of Control have buried the hatchet as far as
his share of the Sorry Six trouble is concerned. All
three bodies are doing their best to make his benefit
a thumping success. The Vic. Association has been
very energetic in the way of giving people who wish
to subscribe every chance to do so, and has taken a
lot of trouble so that no one may miss the oppor-
tunity through forgetfulness. It is generally under-
stood that the world has not been too kind to Mr.
Trumper of late. That general impression is, in the
main, correct. The correspondent who inquired why
a benefit should be tendered to a man who is chief
proprietor of a Sydney city business is hereby in-
formed that Victor Trumper has now no interest in
or connection with the business w r hich bears his
name, having disposed of his share thereof some
time ago.
* * * *
The seventh round of Sydney First-Grade
Cricket concluded on Saturday and found North
Sydney still leading, this time by three points, with
University and Redfern next. When the last round
closed North Sydney had nine points, University
seven and Redfern six. North Sydney scored a full
point win over Waverley and advanced to 12, while
University, having the bye, bounded up to nine with-
out having to battle. Redfern, having got Sydney in a
bad place, bogged out with an innings and 17 runs
to spare, and drew level with ’Varsity. Scoring
generally was not sensational, but three men made
mighty tallies, Bull of Middle Harbor biffing the
Paddington bowling for 128, Foster of Redfern
smacking Sydney for 105, and Taylor of Burwood
carrying his bat against Glebe for 102. Another
good score was that of Goddard, of Redfern, who
backed up Foster’s 105 with a useful 95. There
were a few others, but space is short. Among the
bowlers, Mailey of Redfern was king, with seven
wickets for 48, and the real winner of the match.
Hordern (North Sydney) took four for 15 and five
for 36, F. Bowden (Gordon) six for 59 and three
for 48, and P. W. Dive (Burwood) five for 69 and
none for 28. In the matches, North Sydney won
outright from Waverley with 101 runs to spare;
Central Cumberland smashed Petersham by 50 in the
first innings; Gordon did likewise with Balmain by
138 runs; Redfern rubbed Sydney’s nose in the gut-
ter by an innings and 17 runs; Burwood smacked
Glebe by 258 runs on the first innings, having
declared with 422 for seven sticks. Paddington and
Middle Harbor played a close game, Middle Harbor
winning by two runs on the first innings.
The * N.S.W. cricket band overthrown in
South Aus. by an innings and 53 runs, and obliter-
ated in Vic. by six wickets, was almost new to
Sheffield Shield cricket. Only four of the XI had a
hand in last year’s tussles with the other States.
They w£re Trumper, Minnett, Emery and W addy:
the rest were colts on trial. In spite of the general
failure, the colts did well, quite outshining their
seasoned rivals: Collins made 79, Folkard 61 Arnott
60 and Barnes 41 asrainst South Aus., and Barnes
53, Collins 44 and Moore 42 against Vic. Of the
old brigade, Trumper made 46 in four innings, and
Waddy 57 in four. The bowling efforts of the
Walers were enough to send Canon Boyce to drink
Moore, three for 68; Minnett, six for 144 ? • Eme J7’
five for 163; Massie, five for 215 ; Folkard, two for
168. The man who had the glorious time with the
NS W team was Carkeek, who kept the wicket m
the’Vic. match. In the first innings he caught one,
stumped another, and allowed only two sundries in
84 In the second innings he got his fangs very
deep into the Ma Staters, catching five of them, and
allowing only four sundries in a 232 tally. He was
It- ...
This Christmastide saw stumps drawn
for F. J. Ironside, the Ma State’s most enthusiastic
cricket critic. He retired from N.S.W. Government
Printing Office before the present generation _ of
cricketers was born, and has filled in his time sln ce
by watching cricket and writing about cricket. If
anybody made 172, Ironside could say at once how
many batsmen had made 172 before. He knew when
Giffen did the hat trick, or Alec Bannerman went
right through an innings, and remembered the time
Bonnor broke the pavilion clock and someone else
killed a swallow while bowling. He was a sturdy
barracker for Ma State, and his decease came simul-
taneouslv with Ma’s single innings’ defeat by S. Aus.
a double which spoiled N.S.W.’s Christmas cricket.
* * * *
Bowling teams from all parts of the Com-
monwealth patted the turf and potted the whisky
at Melbourne last week, in an endeavor to settle
the Australian championship, and the result worked
out thusly:—
Victoria won 4, lo«t 11 Tasmania won 3, lost 2
S. Australia won 3, lost 2 N. S. Wales won 2, lost 3
Queensland won 3, lost 21 Westralia won 0, lost 5
Victoria’s solitary defeat came from the Apple
Islanders, in the last match, by 97 to 82. It was no
great margin, but it was enough, and must have
made envious the stragglers who so neatly dead-
heated for second honors.
. * * *
The fact that a mob of 37 had accepted
for Tatter sail’s Carrington Stakes (six furlongs) at
Randwick, on Saturday, caused the racing people
some anxiety, and there was talk of running it in
divisions in the interests of life and limb. However,
though 30 saddled up, the pony example was not
followed, with the result that more than half the
runners were crushed out of all hope soon after the
start. Among the 30 were two very dark country
mokes, whose possibilities were known to a very
limited school. One was Ruby Hampton, at 25 to
one; the other, Sir Willie (from Newcastle), at 50 to
one. The former cut the favorite, little grey Nuwara
Eliya, right out of it in the last few yards, and Hot
Air just snatched third money from Sir Willie, who
had got free of a tangle in the straight, and was
going faster than anything else at the finish. The
favorite played the goat at the barrier, and was sent
to the outside, where he got a clearer run than he
would have had if he had stayed in his original
place.
After all, there is something in a name.
Among the prads in the Juvenile Handicap at Rand-
wick (Sydney) on Saturday was The Christian
Brother. And like a good, well brought-up brother,
the animal stood back to allow every other member
of the mob to go before him. It was so beastly
polite that his backers felt like hammering some
worldly selfishness into him with an axe.
Australian horses were badly left at
ttTe n<l Yinkee aS Embracer 5 Stakes
gilded pium, and anothCTg Yank, on a g^ urd | y>
won the P benman and English-bred LimeUght showed
a tail to a mob of natives. 11 tins Keeps up, toe
Australian will shortly be put on plain food.
Jockey A. Shanahan was evidently foaled
under a lucky star. Twelve months ago he pushed
Baw Bee firM past the post in the Summer Cup and
lastT week repeated the operation with Alured, which,
wkh the proceeds of the recent Melbourne Cup on
make a pleasant year-end for a goodlier.
“Booroondara” : BSche-de-mer, a bay horse,
which won the Brisbane Cup 26 or 27 years ago,
is “till on the track. I saw him some months ago
n the Gulf country, and he looked good for a long
time yet. Believe he was either bred or owned by
J M. Niall (Melbourne manager for Goldsbrough,
Mort’s), who at one time managing a station in
Central Queensland.
* * *
The V.R.C. committee has organised a
race meeting for the benefit of the Distressed and
Disabled Jockeys’ Fund, which is well deserving of
a boost. The meeting will appeal to the earts of
all good racegoers and supporters of the game at
Moonee Valley course on January 8, the day duly
allotted to the cause by the State Government under
the Act. _ .
The motor hog who docs not trouble to
stop to render assistance to the party he has run
down got off extraordinarily lightly last week in
Melbourne. According to the evidence, he took a
very sharp turn round a corner at fast speed with-
out giving any warning whatever, and smashed up
a cyclist. He then sped on, and disappeared over
a hill. But he had been identified. At the court
he said he went on because he saw the cyclist pick
himself up, and concluded that he was all right;
and as it was the cyclist’s own fault, and he was
certain he was not driving fast, he didn’t worry.
Two charges, one of fast driving, and one of having
failed to render assistance, were laid, and he was
convicted on both and fined a whole £5. The
punishment was quite inadequate. This sort of mis-
conduct wants stamping out; and although fines
should be inflicted, a short term of quiet retirement
might be profitably superimposed.
* * * *
The Continental Tyre Co. sends out its
annual note-book, wherein motorists may jot down
just how long Continental tyres take to wear out—
and, of course, how long others don’t take. Also,
there is a useful table, whereby the inquisitive police-
man may be informed, to the nearest half-inch per
second, the rate at which the car went over the
policeman further down the road. Altogether, it is
a very handy thing for the pocket, either of the
motorist’s coat or of his car.
* * * *
At chess last week N.S.W. and Queens-
land met over the wires. The Ma State secured an easy
win with games to 2£; one was held over for
adjudication. Chess is a recreation for doctors, par-
sons and others who have no time to think, but have
to plunge on questions of life and death, immortality
and eternal damnation, and they packed themselves
into the fray with great gusto. After the upheaval,
W. S. Viner, the holder, and medico Lancaster tore
each other to mental ribbons over the Australian
chess championship, and with the 53rd move the
doctor threw up the bishop, or downed the rook, or
whatever they call it. Then A. E. Wallace, who won
the championship ’way back in 1893, dropped his
little challenge on Viner’s toes, and in due time the
struggle will rage with the customary fury.
The B.S.A. motor-cycle again proved its wonderful
consistency in the Speedwell trophy competition,
which was made up of three events, viz., Reliability
Trial, Petrol Test, and Hill Climb, held on different
dates. Mr. Rigg rode his 34-h.p. B.S.A. well in each
event, and won the trophy with the fine total of
141.8 points out of a possible 150. Mr. Fletcher,
also on a 8.5. A., was close up third, with 139
points, these being the only B.S.A. machines to take
part in the competition.*
About a hole in the ground
The British “jumps” could not be better evi-
denced than by the resurrected demand for a Channel
Tunnel. The undertaking was planned 40 years ago,
as a sound commercial proposition, to wipe out
the rough bit of steamer-crossing between Dover
and Calais; and the engineering task was said to
be nothing out of the way. But the idea was
first stunned and then killed by yells that it would
be unpatriotic, suicidal. Britain would cease to be
an island. The Command of the Sea would be
wasted. Time has brought its revenges. Conan
Doyle and other strenuous people are now clamoring
for a tunnel on patriotic grounds. With the Com-
mand of the Sea lost, they say, England must starve ;
but by this underground approach kindly France could
pour in trainloads of food—and so on. There seem
to be gaping holes in the idea, for a navy having
comamnd of the Channel could surely burst in that
tunnel at e ther end or in the middle. But, anyway,
that earnest patriots should demand that Britain
must cease to be an island is a remarkable sign of
the times, and must give Germany—whose navy is
still only about half as strong as England’s—great
encouragement. To have got the other fellow “wet”
is at least a step towards drowning him.


IT’S YOUR OWN FAULT
IF YOU DON’T LEARN TO BOX.
I
i
1
1
I
i
i
i
*
I
i
I
i
i
I
i
I
i
1
1
i
I
i
1
1
i
1
1
i
I
i
1
i
I
1
i
8
i
i
1
i
1
1
I
If you’re beaten because you’re in-
experienced it’s your own fault. It’s
foolish to remain a target for a skilful
boxer, when you can easily, quickly
and pleasantly learn how to use your
hands to best advantage.
Yes, most decidedly, it’s your own
fault if you neglect to learn to box.
No matter where you live you can
readily learn to be a SKILFUL
BOXER, through the means of my
expert tuition.
I TEACH BOXING
BY POST
and teach it in such an attractive
way you’ll be most enthusiastic and
rapidly become proficient in every ser-
viceable hit stop, counter, feint, etc.,
used by the World’s Champion Boxers.
Hundreds of pupils are benefiting.
Here is a typical extract from a
pupil’s letter: —
“I am getting on very well. The
lessons are very plainly put and easily
understood. I look forward to every
lesson with pleasure.
If you want to
regarding fees, and
Home.”
Drop me a note
stamps for postage.
“C.E.R., Yandama (N.5.W.).”
become a skilful Boxer you ought to write for full particulars
for my well-illustrated booklet, “Scientific Boxing in Your
now while it’s fresh in your mind. Kindly send three penny
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
128 Belmont Buildings,
CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
CIGARETTE
PAPER
B'E.ST and VBBBST
IF NOT PROCURABLE AT YOUR
TOBACCONIST APPLY TO THE AGENTS
Jacobs Bros li? 255“ George S? Sydney
L. W. DODGE 8 CO.
(VICTOR TRUMPER & DODCE LTD.)
CRICKET SEASONALITIES.
All Cane Bats, Bound Blades, 5/6
each.
Caned and Rubber Spliced Handles,
8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 13/6, 15/-, 17/6, 20/-
The “ SPECIAL ” Cross Rubber, 22/6.
The VICTOR DRIVER, 25/-
Victor Trumper& Dodge Ltd. Special,
30/-
BALLS—Leather Match, 4/6, 5/-, 5/3,
6/9, 6/3 each.
WlCKETS—BrassTops and Steel Shod,
5/6, 6/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6 per set.
Leg: Guards. Wicket-keeping: Caunt-
lets, Batting: Cloves, Matting:,
Boots and Shoes, Shirts, Sweaters,
Trousers, etc.
Our Illustrated Handbook of Sports
will be posted to you free on receipt of
your application.
317 GEORGE ST„ SYDNEY.
Atmoslite.
light
YOU WANT.
When it’s a case o f
haying a brilliant,
safe, hygienic and
economic light for
homestead, church,
store, picture show,
etc., then get Atmos-
lite air-gas.
Costs only 2d. an
hour for 10-50 c.p.
Write for literature.
Brandt Bros., Ltd.
236 Pitt St., Sydney.
Elizabeth St., Melbourne^
SHELL’
BENZINE
' , • ' . " /;&, '.!'•*u,V‘ j. . :
THE CLEAN
ANO ft
POWERFUL SPIRIT
FOR ALL MOTORS
wmvu'
E 0
THE HEART OF THE AUTOMOBILE—
Fame* Schejler Carburetor
The best Carburetor for ALL PETROL ENGINES
—either Land or Marine, Stationary or Moving.
The Schebler makes your engine develop
greater horse power for a less consumption of
fU< The Schebler holds many world’s records.
Booklet and all information free.
Correspondence invited.
ROBERT C. SWAN & CO. LTD.,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Sole Agents for Australia.
1
A CERTAIN CURE
We know we have the greatest remedy in the world tor
Pil es - , . , Pilp Pills —the wonderful cure
that re qu^k a iy ln relievef the congestion, diminishes the swelling
&* S& i££S2 B g% are non-
They a . re the only way that can effect a permanent
Stv an el d iminaSng e trpois y ons from the system and
thoroughly purifying th everywhere by leading chemists
Murphy s Pile Pills are soia £ direct from the p ro .
and storekeepers, or may proprietorg;
ANDREW MURPHY, P LTD„ Dept. 8., 109 Regent Street,
Sydney.
Murphy’s Pile Pills
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
L. & F. CO., LIMITED.
nr.
Secure Highest Market Rates
for all consignments of Wool,
Wheat, Hides, Skins and Tallow
entrusted to them and render
returns promptly.
rwi
BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
THE MAN WHO CARES
—who likes character, service, comfort, and
a suggestion of quality about the shoes he
wears, will find
Satisfaction in Rigney Footwear.
In quality, style, price, and every detail,
Rigney Shoes will please you.
The Shoe illustrated is a choice Tan Russia
Derby Boot, Kid lined, very stylish and
dressy.
Also in Black.
23/6,25/- and 27|6
Can be had with or without
punching on cap.
Send for a copy of our Catalogue.
'
i, ’ -;r
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.,
“The Men’s Exclusive High-Grade Shoe Stores,”
305 GEORGE STREET, and 179 a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
D-Kirkham's<«.
PpMfS
— n .
'3
*
i A l
Cyclists throughout Australasia
will be interested in the subject
of our illustration, for this
pair of legs has just officially
accomplished-on Victorian roads
—the two most phenomenal Cycle
Records yet established in the
world, viz:—
100 Miles (50 out and 50 home)
unpaced in 4 h. 36 m. on “Dunlops.”
25 Miles (straightaway) unpaced
in 50 mins. 30% secs, on “ Dunlops
D. Kirkham is the greatest
Road Rider the World has yet
seen, and like all Cyclists who
require the Best, he has selected
DUNLOP
TYRES
for all his great rides, on ac-
count of their GREAT SPEED,
STRENGTH and RELIABILITY
jr jir Jt
IF YOU WANT TYRE SATISFACTION
ALWAYS RIDE “ DUN LOPS."
JS Jf Jt
DUNLOP RUBBER CO., All States & N.Z.
Thomas Arthur, who died in M.L. the
other day, was, until a few years ago, Traffic
Superintendent for the North Island section
of railways on the Loanly Isles. One of the
old-time rough-and-ready school of railway
men, he began his service in the South as a
porter, some 45 years ago, and gradually
worked his way into the traffic office. On
one trip, in the days when he was a guard, he
had in the dog box a huge mastiff, a collie
and a small poodle (owned by an old lady),
and in the van some carcases of beef. At
the collie’s destination the poodle slipped his
collar and escaped, and Tom’s difficulty was
to explain the matter to the owner. In a
flash it came to him. He took some of the
rawest carcase beef and smeared its blood
over the door and sides of the dog box and
on the muzzle of the mastiff. In due course
the old lady came to claim her pet. Arthur
ostentatiously opened the door of the box.
Of course there was no poodle. So he
promptly hauled out the bloodstained mastiff,
and with stimulated horror exclaimed : “This
beast has eaten your dog. madam.” Madam
wept tears of rage and horror, and threat-
ened, as women can, but the resourceful
guard stuck to his story. And as he can’t
be reprimanded now, this paper has no com-
punction in exploding it.


TRY IT IN YOU:: BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
TO
H.M. THE KINCL
SGRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
I
; ; >
; ’
■■■
sit
’
i
SHM
1
I
i
■
wmM>
'
WL
■ - - -•-;
, . *■'. . ■ - :•■'■
I
& l ... •
Pi*
i
4.
4
V
mm
.
ffhe authorities
on Modern Science.
\
\
clean
has been proved
the best for
THE SOLDIER AND THE COOK.
Nations in the past have been built on all
sorts of foundations. Some constructed the
house of State on an arch of religion, others
on a corner stone of slavery, others again
on the back of a cow or a pig, and some have
even made the attempt to build on a piece
of parchment or a chance remark made by
a person called a king. All these under-
structures have been more or less shaky, and
the great common sense of the world will
yet come to recognise that, a nation can
only be permanently erected on the oldest
foundations of all —the soldier and the cook.
It is quite possible, no doubt, to erect a
modern nation on any old foundation from
a whilf of hot air to a bar of soap; but if
the thing is really to stand four square to
all the shocks of chance and time, the citi-
zen with the rifle and the lady with the
floury rolling-pin must step underneath and
carry the weight of walls, roof and orna-
mentation.
* * * *
The first duty of a citizen is to bear arms
for the defence of his country. Unless this
is recognised all the rest of the citizen’s toil
is apt to go for nothing. A building of
bricks and mortar which took a hundred
men two years to build may collapse before
the bump of a twelve-inch shell which took
the fraction of a second to get in its job of
destruction; and before the march of an un-
opposed army, laws, art, refinement, trade,
manufactures, religion and sport—all the
things that go to make up the complexities
of civilisation —may crumble into dust in a
week. The man with a rifle is the only one
who can hold the thing that has been gained
by the labor of ages, and the nation which
on the score of economy, or laziness, or re-
ligion tries to get on without him has a poor
chance of long life or robust health. At
present all citizens, with few exceptions,
are compelled to become soldiers; in the
enlightened future only those who, being
physically capable, have qualified as soldiers
will be allowed to attain full rights of citi-
zenship. The vote of a man who cannot, or
will not,_ bear arms for the defence of his
country is one which that country can very
well afford to do without.
The first duty of a woman is to feed the
soldier who defends her. All other matters
are subsidiary to this. The bearing of chil-
dren may be of no manner of use to the
nation unless those children are to be pro-
tected by the citizen soldier until they in
turn take up the job of protection. Here,
therefore, a change of national outlook is
needed. Woman’s franchise is great and
beautiful, and the cry of “Votes for
Women” is one to carry joy; but the citi-
zen rights of women are conditioned as are
those of men. No woman should vote who
cannot also cook. On the citizen soldier
alone the nation cannot be built to stand.
A hungry soldier is the most hopeless thing
that ever offered resistance to the bullets of
the invader; and a nation of dyspeptics is
the most hopeless thing that ever attempted
to stand upright in the sun. Only women
who hold the national certificate of cookery,
stating that they are in all respects thor-
oughly qualified to feed a soldier, should
therefore be admitted to the national holy
of holies, which is the ballot-booth.
Further, in order that the status of the
soldier and the cook may be established in
the most secure way possible, marriages
might be divided into first and second class.
Any cook desiring to wed a soldier might be
granted a first-class certificate, her children
be recognised as first-class and take prece-
dence in all matters over which the Govern-
ment has control over children of second-
class wives who had failed to pass their
cookery tests. Naturally, first-class hus-
bands would be debarred from marrying
second-class wives, on the ground that the
nation could not risk the stamina of its de-
fenders by submitting their stomachs to any
but first-class treatment. Similarly, no
woman lacking a cookery certificate would
be allowed to run a hash-tower, curry-castle
or other establishment whose existence might
be detrimental to the health of the com-
munity. In this way a simple, natural pride
of caste would be created, and the im-
memorial affinity between the cook and the
soldier fostered for the good of the white
race and the strength and honor of the
nation. Historians have held that the roast
beef of old England had much to do with
the glory of Crecy and Agincourt. To-day
the old nation which a kindly Freetrade
feeds on the fag-end of a German sausage
or the heel of last week’s loaf has little
heart for bearing arms; but young Aus-
tralia has the opportunity to lay it down
and establish it for ever that her strength
shall be the trained citizen soldier, and the
strength of the citizen soldier the trained
citizen cook.
“Reka”: The amazing pronouncement of
the newly-appointed J.P. (B. 7/11/T2), had
a narallel the other dav in the King Country
(M.L.), when the presiding J.P., also newly-
appointed, delivered himself thus: “There’s
been a lot of lies told in this case, and I
don’t know who’s been tellin’ ’em. So I’m
goin’ to fine you £2. If yer guilty yer gittin’
off very light, an’ if yer not guilty it’ll teach
yeli to be more pertickler about the company
yeh keep.”
“Lewis Crade” : Here I am in Nice, held
by many to be the most beautiful city on
earth. Sky and sea are of an Australian
blue; and there is sunlight, bright and clear,
just as at home. And there are gumtrees.
One whole avenue is lined with them—the
Avenue Thiers. Baedeker’s Guide Book
specially turns your nose towards the “beau-
tiful eucalyptus.” And Nice itself proudly
shows the Thiers as one of its most beauti-
ful streets. These people recognise the dec-
orative value of the tree. Public and private
gardens are planted freely with them; look
down any street and you will see one or two
waving proudly above their neighbors. And
then the Australian abroad begins to wonder
why the beautiful tree, which adds so much to
the charm of the Riviera, should be banned
in Melbourne and Sydney and other towns
at home —should be deliberately banished
from the streets, from the gardens, from the
parks. Is there one town in Australia where
gumtrees are used for their decorative value?
“The Pariah” : Despite the corpulence of
their advts., the picture shows are no friends
of the daily papers sometimes. Thus, on
Monday December 16, the Sydney Tele-
graph ' declared that McGowen was denied
a hearing and generally gu en a had time at
the opening of the old Government House
grounds Then came the topical budget at
the ,T. D. Williams picture theatres, showing
the crowd receiving McGowen with patience
relieved with cheers. Now who is the liar
the linotype or the camera?
“The Oldest Inhabitant’s Grand-dad”:—
The first rifle club in Victoria was formed in ’5l
in Castlernaine, then I orest Creek, b. T. Sargood,
who in later years, when Minister of Defence, ini-
tiated the cadet system, was one of the foundation
members. His rifle weighed 101 b. It was a muzzle-
loader and fired spherical bullets. The club boomed
for three weeks, and then suddenly gave up the ghost.
The goldfields commissioner (an absolute monarch in
those days) came to the range with a bullet that had
flattened' itself on a rock after whistling through his
dundrearies. He gently suggested that, for the good
of the members’ health, the club had better be dis-
banded. And disbanded it was accordingly.
“Bangs”: The news that Germany in-
tends to re-arm with the Vickers-Laird, or
Laird-Vickers, automatic rifle is disquiet-
ing. The weapon is a combination of two
distinct rifles invented by the men whos j
names they bear. In the beginning the objec-
tion was the weight, somewhere about 601 b.
That has now been reduced to 2 < lb., in-
cluding the water-jacket. So the old lion
in the path has been killed. A lot of other
things in the path can be also killed, for, as
the magazine can be emptied without taking
the rifle from the shoulder, the horrible
machine is capable of spitting out 100
sudden deaths a minute. The fact that
Germany has adopted it, and France is
about to follow suit, suggests that it is time
the Australian Army chiefs got busy ascer-
taining if the Lithgow factory can’t turn
out something similar. Under no circum-
stances can Australia have a very large
army for some time to come, so what army
it has must be helped by the most effec-
tive weapon. The thing it has at present
is about the most ineffective in existence.
WASTED TIME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Counsel also taunted each other at intervals regard
ing time being wasted over the case.—The Age.
Slow as the ancient wheels that grind
The centuries that come and go,
llasteless as glaciers that wind
Their icy course through fields of snow,
Prosy and humorless and dense,
Treading the ancient corkscrew way,
The cohorts of the Law’s pretence
Rake in the shekels of delay.
With horsehair round his seething brains
To hold his knowledge in its place,
Each legal wight his zeal restrains
Lest speed should mar his client's case;
They prate from weary chime to chime,
Twisting the tortured truth to fit
An argument that laughs at time
And sparkles with a moss-grown wit.
The wonder-lights of science burn,
The wings of commerce beat the air,
The ancient ways the peoples spurn,
And progress strips her strong arm bare ;
From change to change the nations run,
Invention sets the stirring pace ;
But changeless as the moon or sun
The Law is in its ancient place.
The tape about its heart is red,
Moth-eaten methods mark its way ;
It seems as sprightly as the dead,
And half as cheerful as the clay.
To some it brayeth like an ass,
But men with sweat upon their brow
Who watch its process grimly pass
Remark, with prayer, it is a cow.
For while, with litigation tost,
Some weary head is bowed and grey,
Its large, slow fingers count the cost
A shrunken purse must shift to pay ;
And just to lend an hour of cheer,
When clients fume in fretful haste,
The learned counsel stops to jeer
His rivals for the time they waste.
N.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


THE
TOP-NOTCH
OF SCOTCH
is
ONE OF THE
PRINCIPAL BRANDS OF
The
T)ISTILLERS
J^imited,
Largest Scotch Whisky Distillers in
the World.
Capital employed, over ,£3,000,000.
EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND.
44
‘Mmf&wmslV
A gentle and soothing “steadier” for lucky winners and
luckless losers after the tension of watching an exciting
“ finish ” is found in “ King George IV.,’ the
“Top-Notch of Scotch.’ Rich in all the essentials
of a high-grade whisky—great age - -fine
bouquet —rounded mellowness—and perfect
purity. The “Winning Whisky.
11l II C /l
"UJOJj
Scotch Whisk)
I
S/nm/ Qtuhh
SsS
m
;nP :
i[EOT
»6»
' i
vfi :
ift
m
v\
i» *•
> • *
■w/, \rJ
r
o
3HW
W
K
\\N\"
///J
fi
"0
3!
\
GOING TOP-NOTCH!


Whooping Cough
and Bronchitis —
now she’s strong
scons
EMULSION
When a mother praises a k
remedy, it is an indication "
that remedy is good. But
when thousands and thou-
sands of mothers, year after
year, praise SCOTT’S Emul-
sion, it is PROOF that it is
quite unequalled as a remedy
for weakness and children’s
ailments.
Both children grew
strong on Scott’s.
“My daughter was suffering with a
severe attack of whooping-cough, I
gave her Scott’s Emulsion and she is
now stronger and better than she has
ever been before.
My baby was very ill with bronchitis,
and nothing did him good until I gave
him Scott’s Emulsion. The bronchitis
has now disappeared and he is gaining
strength and vigor every day. ”
Edith Nicol, Hill Street, Leichardt,
Sydney, N. S. W. 16.6.11.
Imitations are not good enough
for you. Therefore, avoid risk of
error and disappointment. Ask for
SCOTT’S Emulsion and see the
Trade Mark on the package. L
This Trade Mark is made
prominent on the BACK of
every package of genuine
SCOTT’S Emulsion. Look
for the mark and KNOW
you really have got genuine
Scott’s Emulsion.
OF ALL CHEMISTS &
MEDICINE DEALERS.
ANT I N EUR AST HI N
TREATMENT OF
NERVOUS AND WASTING DISEASES.
The wonderful properties of Antineurasthin (Leci-
thin in an absolutely pure form) for successfully
treating all nerve maladies, Dyspepsia, Anaemia,
Rheumatism, etc., and imparting permanent mental
and nerve force, reflect the latest and most important
achievements in medical science.
One of the most important of the wonderful re-
sults obtained by this treatment is that not alone
does it build up the nervous system by feeding the
brain and nerve-cells with their natural food ele-
ment, but on account of its beneficial action upon
the process of nutrition and upon the blood, the
whole general health shows prompt improvement,
particularly in wasting diseases.
A FREE TRIAL.
In order that the worth of Antineurasthin may be
tested, a sample supply, together with a treatise on
nervous maladies, will be forwarded to any address
in Australia on receipt of 2d. in stamps to cover
postage by the wholesale representative, H. A. God-
dard, No. 3 Eden's Buildings, George Street, Bris-
bane; or Branches: 194 Vickery’s Chambers, 82 Pitt
Street, Sydney; 9-15 Safe Deposit Buildings, Queen
Street, Melbourne; 3 Ellershaw's Buildings, Cliff
Street, Fremantle ; 213 Watson’s Buildings, Wellesley
Street, East Auckland.
Serial No. 810. —Guaranteed under the Pure Foods
Act of New South Wales by H. A. Goddard, Sydney,
to contain not less than 10 per cent. Pure Lecithin.
No. 810. [2
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE
Made in England. Perfectly
harmless, indetectable,
and guaranteed free
from Nitrate of
Silver and Lead
Salts.
IN VARIOUS
SHADES Raven
Black, Black,
Broxvn, Light or
Golden Brown,
Blonde, Chestnut
and Auburn
Price 3/6, posted 3/11
Directions with every
bottle.
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 The Bloch Arcade, Collins St., Melbourne
3
1
OME COLDS are worse
than others, but they are 1
all bad. Ayer’s Cherry
Pectoral has been breaking*
up colds for 75 years. '
SOLD IN THREE SIZES
a CORRESPONDENT writes: “There is
*\ always one feature in The Lone
Hand each month that is alone worth the
price charged for the whole number.” The
price of The Lone Hand is 6d.
APENTA
NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Obtainable all Chemists.
Rowland’s
Macassar
Oil
FOR THE HAIR.
Preserves, Beautifies, Restores it. Closely
resembles the natural oil in the hair,
which nature provides for its preservation.
No other article possesses this property.
Without it the hair becomes dry, thin, and
withered. Poor hair mars the effect ol
a beautiful face. Good hair adds charm
and interest to a plain one; every Toilet
Table should possess this oil.
LADIES should always use it for their
own Hair and for their Children’s Hair
as it lays the foundation of a luxuriant
growth. Golden Colour for fair hair.
Of Stores, Chemists, and ROWLAND’S.
67. Hatton Garden, London. Avoid
cheap worthless imitations; buy only
Rowland’s.
Tbc Ideal
Eotertaioer.
Mr. Edison has succeeded in making the
Phonograph so clear and so peifect, that its
rendition of all kinds of music and other
sounds is remarkable, and almost beyond be-
lief The Edison Phonograph is not only the
greatest entertainer that can be introduced
into a home, it is also a scientific apparatus,
which will help to educate the minds of the
children who listen to it.
Go to the nearest Edison dealer and see and
hear the Edison Phonograph. If you do not
know the address, write direct to us, and we
will tell you of it, and also send lists of
Edison Phonographs and Records.
The EDISON
Phonograph.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale only),
Dept. 8., 364-372 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
SUPERFLUOUS HAIR PERMANENTLY
Jf
vX^yv^x-;w.
DESTROYED IN 3 MINUTES.
I will send my Secret Free to any Lady who asks for it.
As a child I suffered from an unwelcome growth of hair on my
face and arms. My schoolmates laughed at me and said that when
I grew up I would be known as the Bearded Lady. lh ® ll , pro "
phecies were only too true. I was humiliated and distressed to an
extent which can only be known by those who suffer as I suffered.
I tried everything I could hear of, hoping to get rid of my super-
fluous hair. I used pastes, powders, creams, and other preparations,
onlv to find that after each application the growth was worse than
ever. For weeks I suffered untold agonies from the electric needle,
but all without avail. I spent many pounds in vain, and had given
up the search as hopeless, when I was led to make a number of mves-
tigations and experiments for myself, and finally, greatly to my joy
and relief, I discovered a simple method which succeeded where all
else had failed, and permanently destroyed my superfluous hair.
I will send full particulars free to enable any sufferer to achieve
the same happy results privately and in their own home. All that
1 ask for is two penny stamps for posting expenses.
Address: KATHRYN B. FIRMIN
(Dept. 631 K.), 133 OXFORD STREET, LONDON, W., ENQ.
JL—
■S,
sc?
145
SAGAR Canting' Table
Universal Sawbench.
This Dimension Sawing Machine is specially suitable for
Pattern makers, Shipbuilders, Furniture Manufacturers,
Shop Fitters, Manufacturing Joiners, Builders, etc., on
account of the variety and accuracy of its operations.
It is suitable for sawing to accurate dimensions, cross-cutting
squaring, bevelling, mitreing, cutting acute or obtuse angles, double
angle cutting for cornice and crown mouldings, cross-grooving re-
bating, cutting hollows for core boxes, etc.
The body of the machine is a strong cored casting, on which is fitted the various
working parts.
The two spindles are made of best machinery steel and revolve in phosphor
bronze bearings. F
Either spindle can be brought into operation the required height above the table
by means of a handwheel operating a worm and worm wheel, and each is fitted with a
16in. diameter saw, one being for cutting in the direction of the grain, and the other for
cutting across the same. These saws are of a special kind and cut remarkably smooth-
almost as if planed. By removing the two 16in. saws a single saw 24in. in diameter may
be used. J
~T heT tBble 18 3f *‘ 4l "; ! ° n f x 2ft - 9in - wide > with an extension to carry the fence, so
that the latter can be adjusted up to 181 in. away from the saw. Complete details on
request.
WHAT WOODWORK YOU DO.
acquaint you with the Sagar British Built Woodworking
TELL US
Let u? acquaint you
Machine best suited to your work. InTtocT, Saw" Benches, Zble aKX°s£ndle
Moulders. Tenomnsr Machines. 3 and 4 Cutter Planers and Moulders, Panel Planers Buzz
' Mn7 ' t ' o “ r ° etc. Full particulars sent on request.’
Moulders, Tenoning Machines, _
Planers. Chain and Hollow Chisel Mortisers,
Machinery Merchants,
554-66 8 582-88 COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
Acme Machine Tool Co.,
Machinery Merchants,
51-65 BATHURST ST.,
SYDNEY.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on MSS. No liability is
undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted,
whether sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will
be returned unless stamps accompany.
C.8.D.: A candid opinion? Well, there
isn’t a thought in it that isn’t as well known as
the death of Queen Anne. For the rest, the lines
rhyme; but the composition has no other merit....
Vance P.: Good descriptive touches; but the idea
has been on the stocks so very often.... Molinu:
Pleased to hear from you ; but that matter has been
already dealt with. And you must give us the
marrow of the thing; we don’t want the bones....
Henry E.: “Speewah” handled humorously; but a
bit slight.... Gadfly: Poor ideas poorly versified....
F. : Back in your dray and unload one stanza, at
least: —
From Premier to bar-room loafer
The effect on all was the same,
When out of the midst of this terrible grief,
Sudden a question came—-
“Who the blazes was Common?”
They gazed around horrified
At the miserable wretch who dared to cast
This slur on the horse that died.
....P. de Monus: You’ve failed to do justice to the
subject.... Brad liilkelly: Glad to hear from you,
though it is an advantage to be able to tell what
the paragraphs are all about....W. S. Gunnedah:
None suitable. .. . J.H.: School sketch may do. .. .
G. : Will have another look at those recollections
presently. .. .John N.: A Happy New Year to the
lady, though we can give her only two verses:—
But Mary comes at sundown
To that old broken gate,
Perchance I’ll to her run down
And hear once more my fate.
And if her eyes consenting
And cherry lips say “yes”
Why, I’ll do all repenting
And to my love confess.
....Typewriter B.: One is a possible. .. .H. 8.:
“Fades” will not run in double harness with “paid.”
They kick each other in the neck and bolt into the
basket. .. .C. MeF.: Painstaking story with gleams,
but the characters talk like the leading article in a
solemn daily. .. .Potter: Having read “Night’s
Orchestra,” we turned to the weather report and
read: “A heavy thunderstorm passed over Eversofar
last night, and 250 points of rain fell in 10 min-
utes. Several trees were uprooted, and four sheets
of iron were stripped off the roof of the Mechanics’
Institute.” What use is there for a long, stormy
poem after that bright bit of lightning sketching?
. ...M.J.: Sorry haven’t a vacant cot for him. Try
another paper—but you’d better get your story type-
written first. A difficult fist is a severe handicap to
a new writer. .. .A.H.: The verse carpenter is now
scratching a contemplative chin over it. .. .R.D.W.:
Hood rattled off something to the same effect a good
many years ago. .. . J.N.8.: What you called “Saved”
we call Lost....Te Pana: Hardly vivid enough for
a thing that has been done so often. .. .N.A.P.:
Neither up, though there’s more than one good line
in the verse.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CONTRIBUTORS.
Wake: The “splinters” jest is ark-aic, so the
others fall under suspicion. They were weak enough
to fall under a tramcar. .. . Glenslea: You’re right.
The drawing is defective. And the idea isn’t quite
original either. ... H. Chappie: All hopeless.
“Caractacus” from M.L.: —
W. J. Napier, president of the Navy League (Auckland
branch), lately expressed the hope that “the people of
louland will never agree to join Australia in creating
a baby fleet in the Pacific... .It would be a blunder
of the first magnitude to virtually banish the British
warships, as Australia has done, and to become inter-
ested in a few submarines and a cruiser or two,
which Australia believes will afford her sufficient
protection. Strange hallucination!” The explana-
tion of it all is that Auckland is to be the British
Admiralty’s Maoriland headquarters under the China
unit scheme; and if anything were to upset that
arrangement, Aucklanders might lose the profitable
laundry work, etc., that they are looking forward to.
Hempire politics nowadays are a refuge for deadbeats
of all colors. When a man has been kicked off the
road board and the ratepayers’ association, after he
has robbed a church, salted a mine, sold sly-grog,
deserted his wife and ill-treated his poor old mother,
he can still preach the glory of Imperial Federation.
This, of course, does not apply to W. J. Napier. He
has merely been turned down by the electors a couple
of times when he suggested that his wisdom would
be of some value to the local Parliament.
In Maoriland, where Saturday afternoon
and evening are still the most important
business portions of the week from the view-
point of the retail storekeeper, the call to
arms on that day is proving rather awk-
ward. Still, there seems to be a decent
amount of patriotism in the Great Loan
Land, and nobody has squealed much about
it. A practical way of getting over the
difficulty is suggested by A. E. Thode, a
storekeeper in the Auckland suburbs. He
advocates the setting aside of certain whole
days, to be known as Defence Days, on
which all those undergoing their military
training would be absolutely free from their
ordinary duties. The days need not be pub-
lic holidays, but it would be understood that
j on them business must run at half-pressure,
and the public, the cadets and the employers
could all preserve a full-sized smile of satis-
faction, knowing that the arrangement in-
volved the minimum of loss and inconveni-
ence.
“Foe”: The Australian daily press is most
fearsome when it exults over the masses
of unwholesome food that will be de-
voured on Christmas Day. It affords me no
pleasure on a hot, oily Christmas Eve to
read that “80 tons of smoking plum pudding
will be placed on the tables of Sydney to-
morrow.” No person or print should be
allowed to blither about tons of sizzling fod-
der when women are wearing open-work
blouses and men are stuffing handkerchiefs
between their necks and collars to save
laundry bills. Food in bulk is nauseating,
and hot food out of season is immoral. In
Australia, hot plum pudding should be pro-
hibited by law for nine months of the year,
i.e., from September to May. Possibly the
Game Laws might be amended to cover the
deadly Christmas projectile. Quail, duck
and other wild things are protected during a
certain portion of the year, in order that
they may be preserved; but reckless Man,
the much wilder thing that pursues them
with powder and shot, is allowed to get after
the deadly plum pudding all the year round,
and attack it furiously just when it will do
him most harm. Some day a politician who
has been a health officer may get to the head
of things and oroclaim close seasons for un-
suitable foods. Meanwhile the public should
discourage the publication of stifling gorge-
statistics during hot spells.


W""T/
5
p 1
|St
BS*
111
"n
«*L 3
a
X, ,
-8^0:
|si^3
iSffiM.
-I '-,
8^
£• /
St ' 4
V W%' '//' \) s
i- S?T :
■ %# f •
K»
Mug;!
F
fu
fTjMWM
V fv
/
Ip^jv
-JRI
i3£
i
82?
Zp*
rxj
S 3
■
Mil
/I
■dfC* - v '
m
. *>». -*. MS
/#
::■■■■: >\-
SB
S>s
- Wu-,
J -" : ' ~’- J^-^>
!j_e> m te*
■■ >*
T>s
ffewSass
Here’s to t
, aw&’.
Hot Cobra’s tbe
kincS of ibem aL
Sfte Boot PolisH.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Welcomes in
The Year that’s New.
With the bagpipes
And the whisky
Chunder and his friends
Grow frisky.
All the revellers
Drain a jorum
Ere they dance
The Tullochgorum.
I hen cries Chunder orally,
“ Hoots , mon !
COBRA for von
j
Shoes and boots, mon !


YOU GET BEAUTY, VARIETY, AND QUALITY
AT
£B/10/.
15ct Gold, set Diamonds and Tour-
malines
A. SAUNDERS
Never before were our Jewellery Designs quite so lovely, so rare and exclusive
as NOW. We ask YOU to send for our free Catolog. It contains over Two
Thousand illustrations of Delightful Ideas. THE BOOK IS FREE.
15ct Gold, set Diamonds, Pink Tourma-
lines, and Peridot.
£4 lO/.
9ct Gold-chas-
ed Curb BRA-
CELET, Safety
chain attached.
o
35/.
Solid Gold EAR-
RINGS set
Pearls and Aqua-
marines.
18ct Gold, set
Diamonds, Ru-
bies, or Sap-
phires.
17/6
loct Gold,
set pure
white
Pearls.
Oct Gold
CHARM, set
Pearls and Red
or Blue Stones.
£3-
£7/15/.
£7/15/.
9ct Gold
CHARM, richly
embossed.
£lO
18ct Gold, set
pure double-cut
Diamonds.
£lO
18ct Gold, set
pure double-
cut Diamonds.
2 a 6-
15ct Gold,
set pure
Diarrtou-’
■ct Gold CROSS,
nicely chased.
£4/10/.
9ct Gold, Heavy “Trace” MUFF-
CHAIN, £4/10/. £5/10/.
111/6
9ct Gold 2-bar BROOCH, set Pearls
and Red or Blue Stones or Tur-
quoise.
18ct Cold, set
pure double-cut
Diamond.
12/6
9ct Gold SEAL PEN-
DANT, Amethyst or
Topaz.
15ct Gold, set Diamonds and
Tourmalines or Rubies.
15et Gold WED-
DING RING,
15/; 18ct Gold,
20/.
20/-
Set Gold LINKS; 15ct
Gold LINKS, 40/.
9ct Gold Bird and Spray BROOCH,
Pear] set Bird.
£5/10/-
15ct Gold, set 11 Diamonds, 1 Pink,
and 1 Green Tourmaline.
12/6
9ct Gold, set Pearls and Tur
quoise.
£2.
Ladies’ Gold Open Face
Keyless WATCH, Fancy
Dial, perfectly timed and
adjusted; guaranteed 2
years’ free repaid.
£lO
18ct Gold, set
5 pure double-
cut Diamonds.
£5/10/.
18ct Gold, set
Diamonds and
Rubies
21/.
15ct Gold BROOCH, set Green
Tourmalines or Rubies.
£22/10/-
15ct Gold, set Diamonds and
Tourmalines.
WE
PAY
POSTAGE
WE
PAY
POSTAGE.
18ct Gold, set
5 pure double-
cut Diamonds.
£4/10/*
18ct Gold, set
Diamonds and
Ruby.
27/6
15ct Gold 2-bar BROOCH, set Dia-
mond and 2 rubies or Sapphires.
20, ■
6ct Gold BROOCH,
Pearls and Amethysts.
set
V.V
* ■
&
2*l
TO
Solid Silver SOVEREIGN
PURSE, hand chased, 10/;
Gold Filled, 22/6
£3-
9ct Gold Fancy
Basket Pattern
BRACELET,
strong Safety
chain attached.
20/.
29/.
%
/
S,
Gent.’s Nickel Open-face Keyless Lever
Timekeeper, full jewelled, non-magnetic
time spring, patent adjusted balance,
dust and water proof cases, accurate, re-
liable, 20/- Guaranteed one year’s free
repairs.
37/6
9ct Gold PENDANT,
set Pearls and Tur-
quoise.
35
fact Gold Half-chased Bamboo BRACELET, Safety Chain
attached.
454/4/-
Ladies’ Solid Gold Patent Expanding
Full-jew-elled, 3-plate, Compensation
Keyless Works.
Wristlet WATCH,
Balance, strong,
50/.
1
32/6
9ct Gold PEN-
DANT, set Pearls
and Turquoise.
50/.
«S 8
02?
!;m
w
Solid Silver Double ALBERT, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6; 14ct.
Gold Filled, 15/, 20/, 25/; 9ct. Gold, 55/, 60/, 70/.
Solid Silver Double ALBERT, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/•
9ct. Gold, 60/, 65/, 70/, 80/, 90/, £5.
Gent.’s Patent It) years’ guaranteed gold-
cased Hunting Keyless Waltham WAICII,
full-jewelled Compensation Balance, ac-
curate, reliable,
50/-
Guaranteed 3 years’ free repairs.
SYDNEY’S
LEADI NC
JEWELLER
nHS
n
n
n
n
807. 809. an. 813, 613. Ql7, OEOPGE. ST. (opposite Railway Station)
SVDNELV N. S. W.
SI LV
MITM
O
XI
8
HIE
©
CLO
A
ER
«uTI


A
,3V
M.
S*J
6>
‘The Money
Maker.”
19
If
K
C
A HAPPY NEW YEAR
FROM
JERDANS Ltd.
We are now quite ready to fulfil your esteemed
requirements in all branches of the Biograph
business.
PLANTS, MACHINES, ARCS,
FILMS, SATURATORS, etc., etc.
The SILENT EMPIRE MAETRE CROSS
MACHINE is our unassailable value for 1913.
We can Supply a Complete Outfit, pir
including Gas Plant, for IIV
We give shows anywhere (gas or electricity), at
the lowest rates in Sydney.
Send for quotations and our Illustrated Catalogue.
IT IS FREE.
393 George Street, Sydney,
236 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
THE WHISKEY OF INDIVIDUAL CHARM
EXQUISITELY MELLOW, LIGHT AND DIGESTIVE
UURKES
ds "Whiskey
★ ★ ★
IRISH
For Particular People,
Bottled by E. & J. Bnrlce themselves.
Enters
Tools
In Engineers' Tools and Requirements we don't stock the
patterns used by the late George Stephenson.
The Stock is brought right into line with the date on this paper.
Besides Engineers' Tools we are recognised as the house for a
full line of Plumbers' Modern Requisites.
We are Manufacturers and Importers of Engineers Steam
Brass Work and Boiler Mountings.
SPECIALITIES:
STOCKS AND DIES ALL SIZES AND MAKES
EXTENSION FRAME HACK SAWS.
TWIST DRILLS. LATHES.
PIPE AND TUBE OF ALL KINDS.
JOHN BANKS S SON PROPTY. LTD.,
Plumber, .nd
324 PITT ST., near Liverpool St^aiun^»-
• «... >f*
Ideal Moforincf
Can only be obtained through a
Ms
s,
MOTOR
Barnet Glass Rubber Gt°
rounders of the-Rubber Industry* in Australia
23i. Clarence St Sydney™ .wjitily
AND #ILL STATES
This Iceless Fountain is a
Nelson
Masterpiece
Has a neat and attrac-
tive appearance that
gives your shop a digni-
fied and up -to - date
aspect. The price is far
lower than you could ex-
pect—considering its per-
fect construction. Below
is also illustrated a
grand double stream 2
Arm Draft Arm selected
at random from our
enormous stock.
We make our own machines and can sell at
lower than ordinary prices. We stock
everything, the largest Soda Fountain the
most up-to-date Refreshment Room could
require. Our Soda Fountains are unques-
tionably the finest in the Eastern Hemi-
sphere—witness the magnificent installa-
tion at the J. D. Williams Co.’s Crystal
Palace, and our latest installation at the
A.8.C., Pitt Street.
We stock the latest in Draft Arms,
Counter Sprays, all Soda Accessories,
Fruit Juices, Concentrated Syrups and
Essences.
Write for our Catalogue.
YOU CAN MAKE BIG MONEY IN THE SUMMER TIME WITH OUR GOODS
—they are the Most Profitable Investment you can put your money into.
THE NELSON CARBONATING CO. LTD.,
The Most Up-to-date Soda Fountain and Refreshment Room
Suppliers in Australia,
167 GEORGE STREET (Circular Quay). SYDNEY.


Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices in this list are those at which the
various books are published in London. The
prices in brackets are those at which the
books are supplied by retail booksellers in Vic-
toria, New South Wales and South Australia.
Postage is extra, at the rate of 2d. per pound
within the Australian Commonwealth.
ACROSS AUSTRALIA. By BALD-
WIN SPENCER, C.M.G., M.A.,
F.R.S., and F. J. GILLEN, Special
Magistrate and Sub-Protector of
Aborigines for South Australia. With
Colored and other Illustrations and
Maps. In 2 Vols. Bvo. 21s. net.
■ "*(255.)
Pall Mall Gazette. —“ Professor Spencer and
Mr. ,Gil|en have written a work which is a
' classic of its kind, and will live to find a place
beside the travel-books of DarXvin, Wallace,
and Bates, and. other great writers who have
pen-pictured the strange places and people of
the earth.”
AN AUSTRALIAN NATIVE’S
STANDPOIN T. Addresses by
WILL. J. SOWDEN, Editor of the
Register, Adelaide, Ex-Chief Presi-
dent for Five Years of the Australian
Natives’ Association, etc. Extra
crown Bvo. ss. net.
The Australasian World.—“ Apart from
the information the book gives, and the
variety of the subjects gone into, the author’s
whimsical way of expressing himself at times,
adds greatly to its readableness.”
PRINCIPLES OF AUSTRALIAN
AGRICULTURE. By W. CALTON
GRASBY, F.L.S., Lecturer on Agri-
culture and Fruit Growing, Perth
Technical School. Fully Illustrated.
Crown Bvo. 4s. 6d.
Tips West Australian. —“Likelv to make ap-
peal to a very wide circle of readers. .. .Its
statements of fact are characterised by a simple
directness and clarity that cannot be too highly
commended in a text-book of the kind ”
SOUTH AMERICA: OBSERVA-
TIONS AND IMPRESSIONS. By
the Right Hon. JAMES BRYCE,
O.M. With Maps. Bvo. Bs. 6d.
net. (10s.)
THE ADVENTURES OF AN ELE-
PHANT _ HUNTER. By JAMES
SUTHERLAND. Illustrated. Bvo.
7s. Od. net. (95.)
Daily Chronicle.—“ The finest record of the
pursuit of big game we have had for many a
long day. We shall not soon look upon its
like again.”
DR. SVEN HEDIN’S NEW BOOK.
FROM POLE TO POLE. A Book
for Young People. By Dr. SVEN
HEDIN, Author of “Trans-Hima-
laya : Discoveries and Adventures in
Tibet,” etc. With Lustrations and
Maps. Extra crown Bvo. 7s. 6d
net. (95.)
EDWARD FAIRLTE FRANKFORT,
or Politics Among? the People. By
SIR HENRY WRIXON, K.C. Au-
thor of “Socialism: Being Notes on
a Political Tour,” etc. (Colonial
Library.)
A MODERN DICTIONARY OF THE
ENGLISH LANGUAGE. With
Australasian Supplement. 2s. The
- Dictionary has been specially pre-
pared for the use of pupils in Second-
ary Schools and in the Upper Classes
of Elementary Schools. It contains
804 pages, and includes—4B,7l9
words ; 1949 Phrases ; 750 Abbrevia-
tions ; 895 Foreign Words and
Phrases.
A SELECTION FROM MACMILLAN'S
NEW SHILLING LIBRARY.
new volume.
THE FUTURE OF ENGLAND. By
„ the HON. GEORGE PEEL.
Si’ECTATOR.—“A fine achievement. . .We have
come across nothing more stimulating politi-
cal argument for a long time, and we trust his
book will have readers by the ten thousand.”
BIOGRAPHY
The C Life of Gladstone. By John
Morley. 3 vols. (Sold separately.)
The Life of David Livingstone. (A
New Book.) By C. Silvester Horne,
M.P. Illustrated.
TRAVEL, SPORT, etc.
The Man-Eaters of Tsavo. By Lieut.-
Colonel J. 11. Patterson. Illustrated.
MILITARY HISTORY, etc.
The Story of the Guides. By Col.
G. J. YYiunghusband.
The Relief of Chitral. By Col. G. J.
Younghusband and ’Sir F. Younghus-
band. Illustrated
GARDENING.
Gardening for the Ignorant. (A
New Book.) By Mrs. C. W. Earle
and Miss Ethel' Case.
FICTION.
For the Term of His Natural Life.
By Marcus Clarke.
A Poor Man’s House. By Stephen
Reynolds.
Novels bv Miss Yonge, Mrs. Henry
Wood, Charles Kingsley, etc. Is. net
each.
* * Complete Descriptive List of Popu-
lar Is. Books (about 160 vols.) and
7d. Novels, supplied post free on appli-
cation.
MACMILLAN $ CO. LTD
LONDON and MELBOURNE.
Fine Designs * Stewart Dawson s
Always the Newest —Always the Daintiest —Always the most
Original and Attractive in Design are Stewart Dawson
Goods. And they are sold to you by the manufacturers at
9ct. Gold Necklet, of
the VERY LATEST
DESIGN. Special
Value,
2716
FIRST COST
PRICES.
Finest Quality Dia-
mond and Ruby Clus-
ter Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£7/7/-
Finest Quality Dia-
mond Cross-over Ring,
18ct. Gold,
£l5/10/-
Finest Quality Dia-
mond and Ruby Clus-
ter Ring, 18et. Gold,
£2/12/6
Finest Quality 2-
stone Diamond Cross-
over Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£lO/10/-
9ct. Gold Necklet, of
the VERY LATEST
DESIGN, Special
Value,
25/-
Finest Quality Dia-
mond and Ruby Ring,
18ct. Gold,
£l2/10|-
Finest Quality 5-
stone Diamond and
Emerald Ring, 18ct.
Gold,
£2B/10/-
mmm
Finest Quality 5-
stone Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold,
£lB/10/-
i?-
Finest Quality Dia-
mond and Sapphire 5-
stone Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£27/10/-
Finest Quality White
Diamond, set in Plat-
inum and 18ct. Gold,
£5O
Fine Quality Gent.’s
Single Stone Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£l5/10j-
Finest Quality 3-stone
Diamond Ring, 18ct.
Gold,
£5O
CB3o7—Fine Pearl and
Aquamarine Set 9ct.
Gold Necklet,
90/-
WE PAY THE POSTAGE
ON ALL GOODS.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED
ART CATALOGUE.
Finest Quality White
Diamond, set in Plat-
inum and 18ct. Gold,
£165
m
m
Finest Quality Dia-
mond and Ruby 3-
stone Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£5O
18ct. , Gold Wedding
Rings.
21/-
25/-, 30/-, 50/-
Stewart Dawson & Co
(Australia), Limited,
Strand Corner, 412 George Street, Sydney.
“Stargazer”: George Rignold could quote Shaks-
peare on any occasion. He was worried in the
drawing-room of an acquaintance by the attentions
of a spaniel. He stood it for five minutes; then,
rising, he struck a convincing attitude and roared:
“Out, damned Spot! ” Spot was outed.
’Tilda Brune lately appeared at Manhattan Opera
House, N’Yark, in a drama called “The Aztec Ro-
mance,” which proved a frost and was withdrawn
before it had run one consecutive week. Lewis
Waller, who is due here shortly, also experienced
cold weather with “Henry V.” Which recalls that
when Tittell first turned up in Australia with her
husband, Clarence, the latter took Sydney Cri. and
almost froze that house with a historical drama. He
shut up the place in about a week, tried Newcastle
with similar frosty results, and then gave the thing
best.
“G. Ockney” : In soft answer to his wrathful epistle
(B. 26/12/’l2), I have to tell the “Chee-ild” that he
is in luck. It so happens that just at the present
there is a sort of revival of the one-act play in Lon-
don ; but for the past few years nobody can deny
that the curtain-raiser ( i.e first piece) has been
rare. Bitter complaints from authors of one-acters
have been heard because their goods were nowadays
not marketable in the theatres. Tree, speaking on
the subject,' said that the music-halls were the only
places that seemed to offer openings for that class tof
play—which was true. Since then the situation lias
changed somewhat, but even latest advices give five
prominent London playhouses as having for curtain-
raisers, not plays, but entertainers, single-handed or
otherwise. F’rinstance, “Officer 666,” at the Globe,
is “preceded by Harold Montague,” a gent, at the
piano ; “Art and Opportunity,” at Prince of Wales’,
“preceded by Mr. Warwick Price” ; “The Glad Eye,”
at the Strand, “preceded by ‘The Tattlers,’ ” and
“Doormats” at Wyndham’s (as the “Chee-ild” himself
informs us), is ‘Preceded by ‘The Quaints.’ ” Even
a “Chee-ild” should know, especially after two trips
to Europe, that “The Quaints” is not the title of a
one-act play, but of a troupe of warblers who give
a turn similar to “The Tattlers,” who again are
imitators of the original, “Follies.” “The Follies”
themselves are at the Apollo,'where, of course, they
not only provide the opening item, but the middle
bit and the tail-end as well. To put the matter
shortly: In the second week of November, out of 27
West End theatres (those in the immediate vicinity
of Charing Cross and the Strand), seven only had
one-act plays in their bills, four had entertainers to
take the curtain up, and the remaining 16 had no
first-piece or curtain-raiser whatever. In proof of
this I will promise to lend the “Chee-ild” my copies
of The Era, the Stage and the Referee if he, on his
part will promise to be good and not spill any more
ink on the subject.
Oswald Stoll, the Melbourne-born monarch of many
London theatres, has been ventilating his views on
the music-hall of the present and the future. Stoll
.thinks the “aimless, senseless, Mafficking type of
song” has had its day and is done for. Also, hits
and gibes at men supposed to be unpopular at the
moment are no longer acceptable, and Stoll will have
none of them at the music-halls he controls. “They
offend and alienate more than they please,” he says.
What the public wants, according to Stoll, is “songs
with real humor, real point, and true human senti-
ment set to tuneful melodies.” Naturally, he de-
clares that the variety theatre has become a national
institution. “It is developing into an exhibition-
ground of all the arts. It is the surest antidoth to
melancholy, and the public instinctively turns to it
for mental relief, refreshment and relaxation.”
“Avon”: With befitting admiration for Shaw’s
genius, I think his short nlay of “The Dark Lady of
the Sonnets” is poor stuff. (Gregan McMahon has
just staged it, with his Melbourne Repertory Co.)
How twopenny-halfpenny it is to represent the Bard
going about with a note-book, and cribbing all the
best expressions in his dramas from the mouths of
other people. Perhaps Shaw took the idea from
Emerson having gone about with a note-book. But
Emerson jotted down his own thoughts—which ac-
counts for the jerky Essays—pistol-shots, as it were,
yet vital and hitting.
The distinguished actor was making a positively
last appearance in Melbourne, and there was a vice-
regal bunch in the O.P. box. At a critical moment,
when the Governor’s lady had her opera glasses up,
a misguided young actor, bearing a truss of hay or
something on his shoulder, drifted between the veteran
and the gubernatorial scrutiny. Then came a hoarse
growl from the lime-lit act-or, a growl heard from
orchestra to the back row of the gallery: “Step
aside, you damfool! You are obstructing her lady-
ship’s view.”
“J.F.H.”: A project is on foot to establish a London
music-hall on the old original lines, a chairman with
a hammer to announce each turn—“ The Sisters
Sprightly will now oblige with a song and dance,”
and so on. Chirgwin, Jlarry Randall and Vesta
Tilley are mentioned as supporters of the project.
They are veterans who have pleasant memories of the
old-time music-halls, and would like to see them re-
suscitated. Seems a trifle ungallant to refer to the
versatile Vesta as a veteran, but she makes no secret
of the fact that awav back in the ’7o’s she was what
she is still, “the champion male impersonator.”
THE BLOODLESS PLAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The amended regulations governing moving picture
shows prohibit scenes suggestive of immorality or in-
decency, executions, murders, or other revolting
scenes of debauchery or low habits of life.
Ah, stern-faced murderer, henceforth
Your monniker is Mud ;
No longer shall you sate your wrath
In seas of human blood
The marksman now will have to miss
Or say his powder's damp—-
Unless he’s satisfied to hiss,
And call his foe a scamp.
The keen-edged sword will have to stay
Unnoticed in its sheath;
The rogue must henceforth win the day
By grinding all his teeth.
He must not even push the Girl
Before the speeding train,
Unless, of course, the beauteous hero-Earl
Can drag her off again.
The bushland bridge shall not be burned
Before the light of day—
Unless, of course, the coach has turned
The unexpected way.
The man who wants the heroine
(Who’s someone else’s own)
Will have to ask: “Will you be mine?”
Across the telephone.
He must not choke the Other Bloke
With painful promptitude ;
Nor shall he dare an axe invoke —
For that is very rude!
The hound that used to leap upon
The scene from north or south,
Will have to wear a muzzle on
His great bloodthirsty mouth.
The maid who stands above the sea
Must fall into a net,
Lest in the fearful tumble she
Should get her tootsies wet.
And so it's plain our splendid thrills
Are simply doomed to die.
To that old friend who promptly kills
We say a sad Good-bye.
N.S.W.
R. J. CASSIDY.


|.V«v
MM
.
m
■ -■
m
■X
% «
4i%*
*3
h a
y
?rr
4«*
it
.37
?.v
E
A
/
V
;*-V‘
St
yt
m
m
~
:?;■•■•*
ft
M,, : «v
iM
m
E&=fe
#y
*
* * -■. ,y
” -
<*
,«r*
««
•.
,yy..
as*
SS:!.«fvW
X.:. a*Sb
.#.
,4S**V
gfetf
SB*?
■
R
-*? '
./•••
«i
yX
IX
y
r *; -
is
y-; ;.
tptt
W
■
F
A
'£
SF*
m*
.>-
*y'‘;
••;■
y
t»*
'•:.C
ys
33
y y
: %
•y *y
"•* ’• *J
■ .:
'
They’re Off!!
1913 RACING
Commences January 4*
T'O VICTORIA PARK, with its unsur-
I passed Racing Tracks and picturesque
grounds, belongs the honor of conducting the
first Meeting of the 1913 Season.
Held under the auspices of the Associated
Racing Clubs of N.S.W., this Meeting offers
a pleasant, profitable afternoon of well-conducted
sport to country visitors and sportsmen.
Victoria Park —12 minutes from Central Station by Zetland Tram is
delightfully situated, and apart from its keen, well-contested Racing, presents
innumerable attractions. Every detail tending to increase the beauty of the
grounds and convenience of patrons, has been studied. Extensive, well-kept
fawn• four racing tracks and trotting track 1± miles in circumference;
artistic and commodious Paddock Stand. The Paddock Stand has sumptu-
ously furnished retiring- and sitting-rooms, lavatories etc for ladies
eaualling in every respect the appointments m leading City Hotels. Halt
the ground floor is devoted to a well-stocked bar—the remaining space being
occupied by dining-rooms, with seating accommodation for 200 guests.
The illustration above shows the Saddling Paddock, Members’ Stand and
Grand Stand.
Trams for Zetland run at frequent intervals from Circular Quay and Central
First-class Luncheon provided. Selections by De Green’s Vice-regal Band
upon the Lawn during the afternoon.
First Race 2 p.m.
Don’t Miss the Race Event Of 1913.
Proarammes. etc., from
H. COB CROFT, Secretary,
Victoria ParK Racing Club,
21 Imperial Arcade,
Pitt Street, Sydney.


HORSESHOE
SA
There is a never-ending variety of dainty, wholesome Fish Dishes in every
can of Horseshoe Salmon. So many changes, so many varieties of Dishes
can be made to take the place of meat that the Housewife who holds a
stock is never in want of a suggestion for a delightful and welcome
change. Every Grocer stocks Horseshoe Salmon.
The “GORDON”
Medium grey -felt covered Pith Helmet,
with puggaree. Made in India to our
order. Smart and dressy; sunproof;
and will withstand rain. Green under
Please state size when ordering
Pike Brothers
Cirmted
BRISBANE.
12/6.
Extra quality. Fur felt
Will not fade.
21/-
IN BANANA LAND
The award of Justice Higgins in the
Brisbane Tramways case, and his strictures
on the management and methods of Badger,
ought to satisfy even the rabid syndicalists
that the Arbitration Court is the true tri-
bunal for the rectification of workers’ griev-
ances, and that the strike was a sad mistake.
The Court finds largely in favor of the men,
but that is poor comfort to the scattered
ex-tramway employees who can’t benefit by
the award. The judicial condemnation
would have been just as effective had there
been no general strike, and a terrible amount
of useless suffering would have been avoided.
“Don Q.”: Macartney, who has resigned
from Digby Denham’s Ministry, promises to
make plenty of trouble. The story runs that
he and “Bob” Philp are to head a third party
in the House, which party is to have the
following backing: Macrossan, Macintosh,
Welsby, Forsyth, Corser, sen., and Corser,
jun., with one or two “doubtfuls.” The re-
cently-formed Farmers’ Political Association
made no secret of its belief that a Cabinet
of middlemen wasn’t a good thing for the
primary producer. One of the first things
that happened when the Denham-Barnes
Ministry came to power was the stoppage
of the publication of the prices obtained at
auction for railway consignments of pro-
duce, etc. A recent police court case showed
what was happening under that new plan.
An auctioneer produce-agent got six months’
hard for defrauding a farmer client per
medium of false sales note. Naturally the
farmers brayed. Hence John White’s inclu-
sion in the Ministry, John being their presi-
dent.
“Kiwop” from a seat of learning:—
Re “Kuscobin’s” par. (B. 19/12/’l2). At the Queens-
land University evening and correspondence students
(and these only) may take their academic years in
parts; but, as between 50 and 60 per cent, of the
day students were ploughed in the recent exams.,
“Kuscobin’s” argument must be ruled out of eourc.
(This abnormally heavy plough is all the more remark-
able in view of the fact that Queensland youngsters
have proved themselves quite the equal of their south-
ern competitors in the Universities of Sydney and
Melbourne, and at the senior and junior exams, of
the former Uni. The bad results look, therefore, as
if there is a screw loose somewhere in the teaching or
examining machinery of the new Brisbane University.
As a matter of fact, the members of the staff are all
young; Prof. Steele, with about 45 years to his
credit, is the hoary veteran, and even he, though
bulging with genius, is young in the ways of the
world. This youthfulness is quite a good thing in
its way, but apt to work out hardly for the students
—“young lecturer, merciless examiner,” as the ’Var-
sity saying, goes. The Queensland papers strongly
support this aphorism. In the first-year Latin course,
for instance, no lectures were given in Roman history,
literature or scansion, and yet the questions set
on these subjects were fully equal to those with
which I had to struggle in the third-year papers at
Sydney. In fact, on the limited reading that can
be assumed of a first-year man, they were ridiculous.
In the first-year “pass” mathematics there were six
questions on the calculus, a fact to make any old
Sydney “pass” man shudder. Logie and psychology
were in the hands of the youngest lecturer of all (at
any rate, the youngest academically speaking), and
the papers were too cruel for words. To sum up, the
real explanation to the excessive ploughing would
seem to be that the staff has yet to learn by sad ex-
perience that the fine ideal of a high standard can
only be realised by hard work and good teaching, and
not by laissez faire methods of instruction, combined
with severe exam, papers.
Private Enterprise can always do the
thing better, of course ; still, A. M. Kirkland,
a well-known Brisbane merchant, discovered
that in Glasgow (where trams are muni-
cipally run) he could travel as far for a
halfpenny as he can in Brisbane for 2d.
"Why,” asks a Queensland Tory paper,
“should the Japs hanker after Australia?”
Well, for one thing, because statistics show
that only one-seventh of the land of Japan
is arable, that the average amount of land
cultivated by each farmer’s family is
acres, and that the average of each rice-field
is one-eiglith of an acre.
During the present year Queensland (area
660,000 square miles) has introduced slightly
over 5000 immigrants—-or oile to every 132
square miles. The Standard, the new
Labor daily, alludes to this very gentle op-
eration as "dumping,” and warns' "Denham
to “go slow.” The process ought to be slow
enough to satisfy even the Japs. ,
The Demosthenes arrived the other day
and landed 69 immigrants in Brisbane, with
an additional six for Maryborough, four for
Bundaberg, and one for Rockhampton. There
were none for the Far North. But then the
North only comprises about. 300,000 square
miles, and the Government was a bit afraid
it might crowd the place and possibly offend
the Labor party.
Captain Richard, of Mount Morgan, tells
how in Japan he sat in a railway carriage
next to a Japanese General whose breast was
decorated with several war-medals. The
General was breaking his fast with a little
rice and fish, in accordance with the simple
traditions of Nippon military men. Con-
trast the British officers’ methods in South
Africa, where the transport service was
choked with wines, fruits, ales, confections—
and pianos.
Remarked ex-Premier Philp in Sydney, on
his arrival there from overseas:—
The South could not rise while the whole trade
was concentrated in one part of New South Wales.
Queensland had harbors all along the coast.
Naturally he didn’t add: "But log-rolling
politicians and short-sighted Governments
have kept them from being utilised in the
endeavor to force trade into places like
Townsville and Rockhampton.”
Judge Macnaughton, who formerly prac-
tised in the North, and made a fine name
for himself as a sound lawyer and a skilful
negotiator, has been appointed president of
Bananaland’s new Industrial Court. His
salary as District Court Judge was £lOOO
a year. The new job carries £l5OO. Ap-
parently the Government wavered between
Macnaughton and Lukin, of the Supreme
Court bench; but it wasn’t convenient to
take the latter away from Rockhampton.
Attorney-General O’Sullivan is expected to
step into the vacant District Court judge-
ship.
THE N.S.W. POLITICAL SITUATION.
BEEBY: “ Now, if I can only get across the filthy river and hatch that egg, what a
time we may have!"
Queensland now has its Boon Gooey case
—with variations. Maud Ah Chan, who was
born in Tingha (N.S.W.) 19 years ago, went
to China when she was five, before she knew
much English. In China she was married,
and her husband has just brought her back
to Australia. Having forgotten all the Eng-
lish she ever knew, she couldn’t pass the dic-
tation test, so she was ordered back to the
Iloang-ho. The lady’s reply was that she
was born in Australia, and meant to stay in
her own, her native land. The Customs De-
partment said it reckoned the lady was
wrong, but it wasn’t sure enough about it to
deport her off-hand; and the Court’ hung the
case up till February 3 so that it might do
some hard thinking, too.
The Feud.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Due night as Satan hovered o’er the earth,
And heard the endless moans of death and
birth.
And caught the lisping voice of Childhood’s
prayer,
And man’s deep curse and woman’s cry of
care,
lie heard one plead, “I fain would be for-
given
And of m.y grievous sin be duly shriven !”
Then sudden fell the Christ-voice calm and
clear
From deeps above the darkened earthly
sphere—
“lf thou would’st win the Life the pardoned
live.
If thou would’st be forgiven, thou must for-
give.”
And sudden o’er the Fallen Angel’s face
There came a memory of the olden grace
When he, among the foremost round the
Throne
In archangelic glory proudly shone,
When ne’er a prince in that celestial choir
More nobly sang or stood uplifted higher.
Until that fierce revolt wherein he fell
And dimmed his brilliance in the deeps of
Hell;
And, as the recollections flashed, he curled
His lip disdainful at the sleeping world,
And cried to Him whose toys the planets
be —
“Oh God of Heaven, dost Thou forgive, then,
me ?”
QUEENSLAND.
F. B.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, December 28, 1912.
My Dear Tiiargomindah,—
The Macgregor betook himself to W ar-
wick on Boxing Day, and attended the Cale-
donian sports. And, losh, the Chiel enjoyed
himself! While the haggis was cooling, he
made a few encouraging remarks. Man, he
said there was more enthusiasm and patriot-
ism there that day than could be found in
all Scotland. As for the skirling of the
pipes, he doubted if there had been more
superb playing at Balmoral itself. In fact,
lie thought things were going from bad to
worse in the land o’ the heather and the
thistle accent. Heard ye ever the likes o’
that? He went on to say that the natives
in Caledonia were dropping the kilts in
favor of the breeks. For himself, it would
gratify him to return to the kilt; so now,
my dear, I’m expecting to see our ain Ex-
cellency prancing in the national lack of
costume any day. And a braw, sonsy laddie
he would look.
The latest news of the two Conran girls
was that they had returned to London, after
a long visit to the Crown Prince and Prin-
cess of Germany.
Cecile Lyster, a Queenslander by birth,
and daughter of Colonel Lyster, of the Com-
monwealth forces, is accumulating a name
for herself in London as a singer. Also, and
more important, she is securing quite a lot
of musical jobs at concerts and At Homes.
One of the best dancers and most popular
girls in this city has spent her Christmas
under a cloud of misfortune. A severe pain
in her knee was thought to be the biting of
rheumatism, and a sister energetically rubbed
in an embrocation. Instead of relieving the
trouble, the speculative remedy merely in-
creased it, and subsequent diagnosis discov-
ered an abscess which had been ruptured in
the process of rubbing. By this time the
unfortunate girl’s life had become endan-
gered, and amputation of the leg had to be
resorted to.
Miss Donaldson, for many years a hard
worker at the Lady Lamington Hospital, and
latterly matron at Peak Downs and Bunda-
berg hospitals, will leave next week for Eng-
land and Scotland. Brother Bob will ac-
company her. Grateful patients out Cler-
mont way pressed silver goods, engraved
with flattering remarks, upon the lady, and
a number of her old Lamington committee
gave her a farewell tea at Cafe Eschenliagen
yesterday.
Justice Real, his wife and son are tour-
ing the N.S.W. South Coast in a motor.
Ar.nie Elliot, who possesses a soprano
voice that is in great demand at all concerts,
is holidaying on the Sydney side. Maibry
Campbell, who elocutes, is also in Sydney
just now.
After having presented a blank and shat-
tered appearance to the world for six weeks.
His Majesty’s Theatre has opened its some-
what dusty doors, and is now sheltering an
alleged comedy named “In the Soup.” The
piece is suitable for this hamlet, for it is
just where we are so far as the theatrical
business is concerned. Nothing ever comes
here until the last sequin has dropped from
the garments of the ballet, and the leading
lady wears patches on her gowns. If ever a
new play does see the light of day here-
abouts, it happens cautiously and by way of
AUSTRALIAN
MANNERS.
McSHIKICER (as mutual
friend drops over South
Head): "Nice perlite bloke
is, ain't ’e? Went off (hic) with-
out even shakin' ’ands! ”
experiment. If (be actors escape unhurt,
the co. joyfully fitrls its backcloths and dis-
appears into a dim, unbridgable distance.
And that’s the last we know of it.
The inter-State chess match, which hap-
pened on Thursday, was a solemn and por-
tentous affair. Queensland was forced to
play a substitute at the last minute, owing
to the action of one player who, finding him-
self marked to play at a far-down board,
refused, and left the room, using hard-boiled
words about some insult or insults. The
joke of the affair (if there can be a joke in
chess) lies in the fact that he was also a
selector.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
Once more South Aus. has proved itself
good Australian. It wanted some more loco,
engines the other day. Unable to itself pro-
duce a sufficient number as quickly as it
needed them, it looked around other Aus-
tralian States, got a good-enough price from
Walkers, of Maryborough, turned down some
foreign offers without hesitation, and placed
an order for 40 with the well-tried and
excellent Queensland firm.
“A Disciple” : Talk about sweating! The
rich Scotchbyterian Church does a good deal
of "home” or bush missionarying. The pay
of these pioneer pilots was fixed at £l2O a
year in the days when the cost of living
wasn’t what it is now, and the poor beggars
still have to pull through somehow on that
pittance, paying out of it not only house rent
and living exes., but for horse feed and trap
and harness repairs. And it is evidently
reckoned that they ought to save money on
this gorgeous stipend; anyway, when they
are transferred from one town to another,
they get only two-thirds of the cost of re-
moving their furniture.
“Flinderino” from the North :
Re the Japanese boat-building industry in German
New Guinea and at the Admiralty 'islands (B.
5/12/’l2). There is in Cairns a yard where the
same industry is carried on exclusively bv Japanese.
It is on the shore of Trinity Inlet, alongside the Chil-
lagoe Co.’s wharf, and adjacent to the sawmills and
a blacks’ camp, and has been in existence for several
> cars. Up till now it has only gone in for building
small craft, such as whale-boats and Ashing luggers,
but orders have been so plentiful that the Japs have
had to work seven days a week. And the bulk of
ilie customers are alleged White Australians! Indeed
when I was last in Cairns the little brown men were
busy on a vessel for the Yarrabah mission station;
and Yarrabah is supposed to be under the control of
the Govern incut.
Koro Belle : The sugar-grower has just
learned a new trick. A certain mill, scent-
ing a poor season, thought it might not get
a good supply of cane, so it offered a few
bob more than other factories provided it
got a certain minimum quantity for the
whole season. A lot of the cane-growers bit.
much to the regret of adjoining mills, whose
rollers languished for cane. Before the end
of the season, however, the factory closed
down, when it was only a few hundred tons
short of the stipulated quantity, so the
growers got only the same price as that paid
at other mills. Since then, over 2000 tons
from its own regular suppliers have been
available. But it wouldn’t start up again,
ot course, wherefore the growers had to
cart the stuff to other mills, and do some
healthy cursing.


EXPEDIENCE TEACHES
Continental
as
.
x
V
X
X
m
<•>
a!
/
u
£
X
s
is
»■
Wj; !
. *
■ ■
SB®
##
T$ jfiE CXTP4 niLE4dC TFI4T CODNTS
onTincfiwL £.♦£ Wuppep & f^.te


Shipping;.
P.
and
O
BRANCH SERVICE.
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Wireless installed. *Twin Screw
PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION AMIDSHIPS.
ONE CLASS.
LONDON £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l7 17s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne Agents: JOHN SANDERSON & CO., 11l
William Street.
Adelaide and Fremantle Agents: GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
ORAMA ..
ORVIETO ..
OSTERLEY
OTRANTO ..
OTWAY ..
ORSOVA ..
ORONTES ..
OMRAH ..
OPHIR
Triple-Screw
Twin Screw
13,000 Regd. Tons.
12,130 „
12,129 „
12,124 „
12,077 „
12,036 ~
9.023 „
8,282 ~
6,814 „
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-ltixe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Puace, SrnNET.
Banking’, Public Companies, &c.
SM
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
NEW SOOTH WALES.
HEAD OFFICE: MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Farmers 8 Settlers Loans
ON COUNTRY LANDS.
For 31 Years, Repayable by Half-Yearly
Instalments.
Advances on City and
Suburban Securities
and Broad Acres.
Fixed Terms, 3 to 5 Years, with
Special Repayment Privileges.
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
of ||orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE,
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of (ieorge and Bridge Sts.
Manager: ,T. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp k Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Hankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK, LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
THE,
Australian Bank nf Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,534
PAID-UP (June 30, 1912) .. £1,194,898
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS—Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man; George J. Si.t, Esq., LL.D. ; Cuas. 11.
Myles, Esq. ; Mark Sheldon, Esq. ; Arthur S.
Barton, Esq; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales k Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world!
A, P. STEWART, Genera] Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO.OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,590 14 6
Reserve (in Government Stock) . . 118,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091.669 4 a
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since 1893 specially protected
Directors —Jas. Munro, Esq. (Chairman) ; John
Cameron, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. ; Geo. Edw. Bunnine
Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON
INTEREST ALLOWED ON FIXED DEPOSITS.—
12 months, at the rate of 4 per cent, per annum ; 2
years and over, at the rate of 41 per cent, per annum”
HEAD OFFICE .... BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland. Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
New Zealand Insurance Cfo.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
LIVE STOCK and GENERAL.
WEALTHIEST COLONIAL COMPANY.
INSURANCES EFFECTED at LOWEST Current Rates.
FIRE and MARINE BRANCH : 77 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
ACCIDENT BRANCH: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
J. A. Minnett & A. E. D’Arcy, Joint Managers.
CARBIDE.
For First-Class
Results use
Best
CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Ag nts for Australia.
Shipping:.
N.D.L.
NORDDEUTSCHER-LLOYD
MAIL STEAMERS
To Colombo, Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and
Bremen.
All steamers fitted with “Wireless” Installation.
All steamers fitted with Laundry.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE from Sydney
and Brisbane, via German New Guinea, Yap,
Angaur or Maron. Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to —
LOHMANN <fc CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney :
OSTERMEYER, VAN ROMPAEY k Co., Melbourne;
H. MUECKE k CO., Adelaide ;
L. RATAZZI k CO., Perth and Fremantle;
THOS. BROWN k SONS, Ltd., Brisbane k Townsville.
Bank of [)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING. GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£1,000,000
Preference Shares .. .... 500,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
„ llp „ 500,000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,240,587
GRANTS DRAFTS
tain and Ireland, and other places.
a, New
Great
Zea-
Bri-
RECEIVES DEPOSITS iLd'SU 0 !
transacts all other usual Banking business.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE
Steamer. jTonsf Commander. | Leave Sydney.
’'Third-class only. All steamers fitted with Wireless.
SALOON: PARES— Third-class.
London, from £45. £l6 to £2O.
Capetown and Durban, from £3O, £l3/13/-, £l7/17/-
Special Round Tickets for Return by Orient Line,
£llO (First-class both ways) ; £B2 (Second-class
Orient).
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll4 10s.
SALOON CABINS on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest stan-
dard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF
Fast Passenger Steamships
S.S. COOMA,
S.S. BOMB ALA,
S.S. PEREGRINE.
Leave Ports as follows:
MELBOURNE every Wednesday.
SYDNEY every Saturday.
BRISBANE every Tuesday and Wednesday.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma) every Monday and
Wednesday.
MACKAY every Sunday and Thursday.
TOWNSVILLE every Saturday.
S.S. SAROS sails for ADELAIDE, ALBANY and
FREMANTLE
From SYDNEY, JANUARY 31, 1913.
From MELBOURNE, JANUARY 25.
(Cargo Only.)
FULL PARTICULARS re FARES, FREIGHTS, etc.,
from
HOWARD SMITH CO., LTD.,
Offices at all Ports.
An Island Cruise
is the ideal change of air and scene for
residents of Inland Australia. An ever-
changing panorama of coral reefs, palm-clad
beaches ' and picturesque native villages.
Send for Illustrated Books describing
various tours by the Burns, Philp Line,
occupying three weeks to three months, and
costing £5 to £25.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 11 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
£3,000,000
£2,150,000
£3,000,000
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt.,
DIRECTORS : Richard Binnie, Esq.
£8,150,000
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar, Ivt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
Auditors: Shepheard Edgecliffe Laidley, Esq. ; Alfred George Milson, Esq.
05 Rce r Geor «e St•• Sydney. London Office-29 Threadneedle St. EC
U ith 335 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua (New South Wales 167,
Victoria 3(, Queensland 48, Soutn Australia 5, Western Australia 11, Tasmania 3, New Zealand 58,
Fiji 3, Papua 2, London 1) ; and Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
Cable remittances made to and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE
" OT{LD - J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up ..£1,718,893 15 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,540,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 1,750,000 0 0
£5,008,893 15 0
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen, Esq . . .. Chairman.
Hon. 11. E. Hater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: W. L. Docker, Esq., and E. S. Cape, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
Manager: A. J. Soutar.
Accountant: W. R. Sayers.
Secretary: M. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors: W. C. B. Tiley, W. H. Pinhey.
London Office: 18 Bircliin - Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. H. S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South M ales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. ..£538,307
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 159,054
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock).. 76,500
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. —-
Gen. Man.. Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man. :E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The Colonial mutual gife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
At nuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,358,229.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £ 5,600,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable. Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretary.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti),
The “ Pearl of the Pacific.”
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any point in
the UNITED STATES or CANADA.
ROUND THE WORLD TOURS,
First and Second Class.
ROUND PACIFIC TOURS, returning
from Vancouver via Honolulu, Suva and
Auckland, or via the Orient.
STEAMERS SAIL—
TAHITI, MOANA, AORANGI,
JAN. 25. FEB. 22. MAR. 22.
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street. SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Westralia,”
“Ulimaroa,” “Wimmera,” “Riverina,”
“Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH <k ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
Shipping:.
THEADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE 'i
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRTE i
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping- at Fremantle I
to all North Western Ports, j
T.S.S. Warilda (7713 tons),
Wireless Telegraphy,
Saturday, January 18,
carrying Ist and 2nd
Saloon and Steerage
Passengers. 1,2, and
3-berth Cabins. Next
trip, February 15.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oairns.
S.S. Wollowra, Jan. 4.
S.S. Grantala, Jan. 11.
S.S. Innamincka, Jan. 18.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can bo
ascertained on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD..
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
Via FIJI AND HONOLULU.
CANADIAN - AUSTRALASIAN R.M
LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
AROUND THE WORLD TOURS.
FIRST AND SECOND CLASS.
SAILINGS :
*New triple-screw steamer, fitted with cabins-de-
luxe en suite, Nursery, Laundry, etc.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents. 259 George Street, Sydney.
Federal and Shire Line
STEAM DIRECT to DURBAN, LONDON and LIVERPOOL
T.S.S. AYRSHIRE.
11,000 Tons. W. J. PAGE, Commander.
Will be despatched from—•
SYDNEY Bth JANUARY
The Saloon accommodation consists of all two-
!?® r th cabins on the Upper deck, situated amidships.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious
decks. Third-class passengers supplied with fresh
provisions from cool chambers throughout the voyage
Surgeon and Stewardess carried. Electric light
throughout 6
Return' and Round Trip Tickets issued via Cape
and (or) Suez Route. Prepaid passages arranged.
Saloon. Third-class.
Fares ..£4O to £45. £l3/13/- to £l7/17/-
Steerage Fares from Brisbane, One Guinea Extra.
To be followed by the
T.S.S. SUFFOLK, leaving Sydney Feb. 3, 1913.
T.S.S. SOMERSET, leaving Sydney Feb. 12, 1913.
ALL FITTED WITH WIRELESS.
For further information, pamphlets, etc., appiy to—
BIRT & CO., LTD., Sydney and Brisbane
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & CO , LTD Mel-
bourne.
ELDER SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide
H. JONES & CO., Hobart. Aaejaia e.
IN 6 DAYS.
„ 13
.. 19
„ 23
29
America, Canada, England.
VIA SAMOA AND HONOLULU
SYDNEY TO SAMOA
» „ HONOLULU
» „ SAN FRANCISCO
» „ NEW YORK
» „ LONDON
YOSEMITE VALLEY, GRAND CANYON ROPTCV
MOUNTAINS, GREAT LAKES. NIAGARA Fall!
SEEN EN ROUTE.
SAILINGS:
SONOMA—Jan. 11, March 8, May 3, June 28,
Aug. 23.
CENTURA.—Feb. 8, Apl. 5, May 31, July 26,
Sept. 20.
Descriptori of Steamers.— 10,000 dis. Classed ,100
Al at Lloyd s. 17 knots. Special Cabins de Luxe
on Promenade Deck, with Private Baths.
Round World Tickets interchangeable with Suez
and Cape Lines.
Anplv— OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO., i
Telephone, 2282 City. 44 Pitt Street, Sydney.
V. A. SPROUL, Managing Agent.
THE
lINITCn INSURANCE
Ulll I k U COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500.000.
Fire insurances
Marine Risks .
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
tu ..it ,4. , of var ious classes.
Ine United is an Australian Institution.
THOMAS M. TINLEY* Manager.
ARABI b CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN-HENNA, foi
yrey Hair, the best and cheapest, 1/- and 2/6.
(Observe signature, Alfred Ardley, No. 7410).
Avoid the counterfeiter (same case, same bottle).
Genuine obtainable:—
T RK /P Y ’ S ’ ALL CHEMISTS, 1 W.
ASSOMULL and Stores.
MELBOURNE: EDMENT’S, FOY’S, COLE’S, MAC-
LELLAN S, ALL CHEMISTS, W. ASSOMULL.


' I
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
9.
TjP J
LONPON’S FAMOUS
FAMILY HOTEL.
Standing on high ground, it occupies
a healthy and hygienic situation within
a few minutes of the principal attrac-
tions by tube or taxi-cab.. Rooms
large, lofty, and airy. Private suites,
including separate bathrooms. Every
convenience, with the refined luxury
of a modern English Home, Easy
access to all parts of the Country,
London’s five great railway termini
being close to the Hotel. Moderate
Tariff. Special terms to families and
visitors making a prolonged stay.
Telegrams: “CentellareJ * London.
Mn
, It .M k *■«
iflflHir!
f±\- ff
Has
a<N<««««w»ra»#
•i •m
ft* iga
he
.i’JmlSsJ
■Tit
r ?•
If
L i , 3ft \ 1
i I BBH HI
K
si>
r StvNT4i
Jm
Superior to
INJECTIONS
iCUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
48 hours.
urn]
Each Caosnle bears the name
UNCLAIMEDMONEY&PROPERTY.
DOUGAL'S RBiHSTBR^NEXT-OF-KIN
CHANCERY HEIRS, LEGATEES, Ac &c price
3/-,4Bopages. Robertson’s, booksellers, Mdbourne,
Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, or Dougal & re-
claims investigated and carried through
00UCAL & CO., 151-STRAND, LONDON, ENGLAND-
{Established over
BRIMAIIIT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty In expectoration. A stlrnia ,N *
relieved CIOAU '
ETTES. Sn'rf bv n" ry *trl**.
Commonwealth
Bank of Australia.
general banking department.
Melb^ume C Brifb WIL T BE °.f. ENED AT AN EARLY DATE IN Sydney,
(Federal Cani ll) j T°'r nsv ' ,,e - Adelaide, Perth, Hobart, also Canberra
Li - p G —
omcEs ,hrouBh ° ui
THE COMMONWFAI ° P^ N . ED IN ALL THE OTHER STATES OF
lON WEALTH, including PAPUA, in January, 1913.
of Thr^ne/c^nr 6 * 1 fr ° m ° ne Shiliin « upwards. Interest at the rate
three per cent, per annum on all deposits up to £3OO.
December. 1912. DENISON MILLER, Governor.
LAND,
e Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
ilthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
otters a field of^nJhnnn d erl "a™'' e .’ ' n le P rocess °f initial development, Queensland
settler and to the honest t<J the n,vestor ’ the scientist, the tourist, the prospective
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
Brannh . „... _. T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
_^2£!Lg![!£il_!l 6 Pltt street - Sydney, H.S W, A. MESTON, Local Director.
A Popular
The PLUM Razor!
New Year Gift
u
Gm)
This is the ideal razor. It gives a quick, clean, com-
fortable shave. That is why hundreds of men will be
pleased to receive it as a New Year’s Gift.
Every “Plum” is guaranteed. We keep it in order
for two years, free of charge.
Singleßazor, Black Handle. 10/6
Pair in Double Case, 21/.
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-. This line
makes a very handsome present.
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6.
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Stick good Shaving Soap, 1/-
The Plum Razor Strop Dressing, 1/-
Tube. Gentlemen who shave them-
selves should not he without it.
All the Above Post Free.
PRICE 10 6, Post Free.
The C. & A. Moustache Trainer
shapes the moustache. Worn
at night; 2/6, 3/6, 6/6 each
post free.
We Grind and Set Razors, 1/- each.
SAFETY RAZORS FROM 5/6.
Send for our Free Illustrated
Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED 30 YEARS.
CLOTHED WITH AIR.
Aertex
Cellular
Recommended
by Doctors.
An Ideal Suit of
Underwear for Summer.
SINGLETS: Chest, 30in. = 38in. ... 2/9
~ 40in. = 44in. 3/3
DRAWERS: Waist, 30in.~38in. ... 3/-
~ 40in.=44in. ... 3/6
Postage 6d.
AGENTS:
DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
Tailors and Mercers,
76 Market Street, SYDNEY
BUY DIRECT
BUY DIRECT
FROM FACTORY.
and we guarantee you a saving of at least
£lO. All goods sent freight free. 12 .years’
warranty. A postcard will bring you our
Catalogue. Established 1875.
SANDON & STEEDMAIM,
76 Finsbury Pavement. London, England.
Apply for Free Catalogue" to
Williams, Post Office, Parramatta,
WE SAVE YOU PO
Box 1281, G.P.0., Sidney.
ft * ft® ft m *»• (I mti'&'A'
t&mz-
B.S.A
MOTOR BICYCLES
PERFECT IN EVERY PART"
The B.S.A. Motor Bicycl eis the no trouble machine. Its reliability
under all conditions is being demonstrated daily by an ever increasing
number of riders.
v
s'
/ .<r
\L
Y\ \
v\xv\ \X
WINNER IN PRACTICALLY EVERY
COMPETITION ENTERED. :: :: ::
PROVED to be one of the most RELIABLE, SPEEDY,
POWERFUL and ECONOMICAL MOTOR BICYCLES
MADE.
Write NOW for Latest Catalogue FREE.
D. Y. RENNIE (Representing b.s.a. Co. Ltd.), Australian Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
Wholesale Agents for New South Wales, Bennett & Barkell, Ltd., Sydney.
ANTHONY NORPERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of Genuine B.S.A. Parts, with EADIE Twi
Coaster Hub. Free Wheel on both gears,
pedalling and Front-rim Brake and Dunlop
As ridden by FRANCIS BIRTLES. t g
Write for Price List, post free.
3-Speed
Back-
Tyres.
10s.
Aotbooy Hordero & SoijS Ltd.,
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
-
/
THE
WORLD’S
BEST i
CREAM
SEPARA'
l -TOR
The keen farmer judges by results
Here is a
Proposition
The Melotte
Separator is
placed on the
market at a cost
slightly above
that of the
average cream
separator.
The
Result
The Melotte
has the largest
sale in the
British Empire,
and an annually
increasing one.
The
Conclusion
If the price
is above the
average, the de-
sign, materials,
workmanship,
and construc-
tion, must be
incalculably
above the aver-
age; otherwise
this enormous
sale would be
impossible.
The
Secret
lies in the tact that
once installed,
the Melotte
produces an
increased yield
of the best
cream and butter
throughout a
lifetime of con-
stant use with
practically no
further outlay
for upkeep.
SEPARATOR SALES Co. L ,d
■ BRISTOL, ENGLAND.
Sole
Agents
M
New South Wale* : W. S. Friend & Co Sydney.
Queensland : Clark & Fauset, Brisbane.
Victoria : T. Robinson & Co., Propy., Ltd.,
Melbourne.


The cable announces the death of Jean
Baptiste Edouard, the creator of “Vive
I’Empereur!” .for which Sydney Art Gal-
lery paid £3OOO. Perhaps the greatest of
his immortal warrior pictures is “The Con-
querors,” in which victors, from Hannibal
down to Napoleon, move in a winged car
through a lane of the dead, stretching away
into the infinite distance. By such can-
vases Edouard did for the French what
Vereshchagin did for the Russians; and
though an exponent of the hideousness of
warfare, he was the admired of the men
who are responsible for the thing he showed
in its true colors.
Christmas Day saw the revival of a
quaint Sydney custom, the relic of a God-
fearing Ministry of some decades back —
the sudden holding up of the tramway ser-
vice during “church hours.” A forgetful
populace came streaming into the city by
train and ferry between 7 p.m. and 8 p.m.,
only to find themselves stranded at Redfern
or the Quay. The tram crews were not
put off; they simply sat in their stopped cars
until the time-table woke up again. One ex-
asperating feature of the absurdity is its
inconsistency. If the Christian faith re-
quires trams to stop, why are ferries and
trains allowed to run? If it would imperil
Mr. Tom Johnson’s soul to convey passengers
from the station to the Quay, what is he
going to say to the Recording Angel when
he is asked why he carried them from Par-
ramatta to the station?
“B.” : One of the dailies says that three
Baptist pastors in Australia, after 30
years’ service, are receiving 30s. a week
each, and that a Presbyterian minister in a
Sydney suburb draws £BO a year. If a
sweated parson went on strike for higher pay
the heathen would scoff; yet even parsons
want three meals a day, and meals of
Heaven-sent manna have gone right out of
fashion. The truth is that the money avail-
able for parsons’ meals is most inequitably
divided; the heads of the denominations,
squatting down among the rich churchgoers,
live well, while the men who have the hard
job of ploughing the vineyard where the
ground is stony and the weeds rank, must
do a starve. Obviously things ought to be
upended ; the good money ought to go to the
men on the tough contract. The present
rotten arrangement is like old times in the
police service, when the higher ranks fared
sumptuously and the common bobbies, who
were required to take the blue-metal, had to
depend largely on the cooks.
A note from another Smith: —
Odd varieties of Smith have been discussed by
The Bulletin lately. I can contribute a fresh one.
Well, perhaps hardly fresh. Here it is, anyway:
Preserved SmPh. He is an American author of some
note. Probably he comes of a Puritan family, and
the original name was Preserved-from-the-doom-of-
Sodom-and-Gomorrah Smith —or words to that effect.
The existing holder of the title must have plenty, of
nerve, to be willing to challenge the obvious allusion
to Canned Goods.
Race meeting
FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE
Distressed and Disabled Jockeys’ Fund
To be held on the Moonee Valley Racecourse, by
the permission of the Committee and Trustees, who
have kindly given the use of the Course.
WEDNESDAY, Bth JANUARY, 1913,
Commencing at 2.30 p.m.
Their Excellencies the Governor-General and Ladv
Denman, His Excellency Sir John Fuller, His
Excellency Sir John Madden, the Members of the
Ministry, the Lord and Lady Mayoress, and others,
will be present.
The V.R.C. will be assisted by the V.A.T.C., the
Williamstown Club, the Moonee Valley, Sandown
Epsom, Mentone, and Aspendale Racing Clubs, and
the Hunt Clubs.
PROGRAMME.
HANDICAP HURDLE RACE.
TRIAL HANDICAP.
WELTER HANDICAP.
LADIES’ TROPHIES CORINTHIAN HANDICAP.
JOCKEY FUND HANDICAP.
HELPFUL HANDICAP.
H. BYRON MOORE,
A. V. HISKENS,
Honorary
Secretaries.
Business Notices.
Bert“BULLS-EYE” ELECTRIC POCKET LAM?
v-'h latest improved cell. PRICE 5/-, post free anywhere. Press the
I 'on and a brilliant light is immediately obtained. Fits hand and pocket.
Lxtra cells. 1/9; post free. Send postal note (mentioning this paper) to:
•S TA R NO VEL TY C0..229 Collins St.. Melbourne
CHRISTMAS BARCAIN PARCELS
5/- WORTH for 2/6, WE PAV CARRIAGE.
To make known some of oar Valuable Household
Specialities, we are making up our usual Christmas
‘s, containing Cinderella Slipper, makes ire
pleasure. Dust-Eating Duster picks up
dirt it touches and carries it away; Soap
a clever attachment for bucket or tub; Polish -
g Cloth shines everything without labor;
M end in g~T issue mends clothes, boots, gloves. &c M without sew-
ing ; Egg Separator divides white from yolk instantly ; and a
Pair of Strong Pliers. These are all excellent new ideas, that
g E
only need to oe Y
>be highly valued. Splendid Presents.
GOOD THINGS for the CHILDREN
1 6/- WORTH for 2/6, we pav carriage.
2 Jumping Kangaroos, 2 Flying Birds, 2 Big Butter-
flies. different colors, that will fly, Japanese Jigger,
dances like mad. Jumping Jack, very funny, Trans-
forming Flowers make many wonderful and beautiful
forms. Pair of Fighting Roosters. Something to
amuse everybody, grown ups as well as youngsters.
Bargain Bunch of Wonders
s/. WORTH FOR 2/9, W E PAV CaRKIaGE.
3 Trick Match Boxes, *ll different, you can “have” your*
friends every time with a new one; 3 Good Puzzles,
3 Wonderful Card Tricks, astonish everybody; 2 Lovers*
Links, cannot get away, great fun ; Book on Parlor Magic,
shows you bow to do scores of good tricks; Joker Fly
Scarf Pin, takes tn everybody. Plenty of fun for the
holidays- Full directions for doing all the tricks and puzzles.
SOME NICE THINGS FOR THE LADIES
« B'S S/. WORTH fop 2/B, we PAY CARRIAGE.
Delightful Perfumed Amulet, Lucky Shoe Scarf
i Pin. Set of Three Beauty Pins, Kangaroo, Emu
I and Kookaburra, Lucky Blue Bird Brooch,Cigar
' Fan and a Set of Little Darling Shirt Sup-
porters. A Real Bargain Parcel.
_ To Buyers of any Two Parcels will be given
one Life-Size Cloth Doll, to be cut out and stuffed
To Buyers of any Throe Parcels will be given Six
Pieces of Copyright Sheet Music, new and popular
To Buyers of all Four Parcels will be given a lovely
Sicilian Shell Necklet.
The contents of the Parcels cannot be varied in any way
The Union Manufacturing Co.,
2?9 Elizabeth _Strf.et, K
Missing- Friends.
INFORMATION wanted WILLIAM
JOHN GARVIN, at one time of Dayles-
ford, Victoria. Write M. 594, Gordon &
Gotch, Melbourne. To your advantage.
IF the descendants of Maria Andrews,
whose maiden name was Morrish, for-
merly of Landkey, North Devon, England,
will apply to A. E. Hopper, Solicitor,
Barnstaple, England, they may hear of some-
thing to their advantage.
Business Notices.
t
LADY ROBINSON ASTRIDE SADDLE.
This illustration is a reproduction from a
Photograph of the Saddle we made and for-
warded to Lady Robinson (of London), for
her own personal use in England.
The Saddle is Hogskin all over, made on
best plated, hand-made tree, extended facings
and solid point to panel, fitted with Folded
Girth, Surcingle, and Scott Patent Safety
Irons. Price, £lO 10s.
We can make to your order any class of
Saddle, Ladies’ or Gent.’s, that you require,
and can guarantee satisfaction. Write to-
day for our Illustrated Saddle and Harness
Catalogue—post free.
L. Uhl & Sons Ltd.,
Petrie Bight, Brisbane.
Tenders.
NOTICE.
Sale of Mineral Leases and Plant—
Northern Territory.
SEALED Tenders will be received at the
Office of the Administrator oif the
Northern Territory of Australia, at Dar-
win, up to the 31st day of March, 1913, for
the purchase of four (4) Mineral Leases,
each of an area of 80 acres, and comprising
the whole of that mining property known as
the Daly River Copper Mine, and for the
purchase of a Reverberatory Furnace, with
slag heap, at such mine.
This property is situated about 60 miles
westerly from the Brock’s Creek Railway
Station, on the Darwin-Pine Creek Railway,
and about four (4) miles from the Daly
River Landing; the River being navigable
to such Landing to vessels drawing not
more than five and a half (ss) feet.
The present Mineral Lease of the prop-
erty expires on the 31st day of March, 1913,
when the Leaseholders have to give up
possession.
The Smelter on the Mine was built in
1908, and is in good condition; its capacity
is approximately from 150 to 180 tons of
ore per month.
The term of the Mineral Lease will be
"or 99 years from the 30th day of June,
1913, the rental Is. per acre per annum,
and per centum of the net profits; the
conditions, reservations, and stipulations
pertaining, are, with two alterations, those
laid down in the Northern Territory Mining
Act and Regulations in respect to Mineral
Leases.
Each tender must be accompanied by a
cheque for £2OO, marked “good” at the
Bank.
Further particulars can be obtained at the
External Affairs Department, Northern
Territory Branch, Melbourne, and the Gov-
ernment Secretary’s Department, Darwin.
J. A. GILRUTH,
Administrator.
Office of the Administrator,
Darwin, 27th August, 1912.
Amusements.
Til EAT It E ROYAL,, SYDNEY.
Direction: J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
GRAND HOLIDAY ATTRACTION.
Series of SUPERB SPECTACLES, BALLET & MUSIC.
EVERY EVENING, AT 7.45.
The Dramatic Version of the World’s Greatest Story,
E A US T.
Goethe’s Poetical and Supernatural Masterpiece.
PLANS AT PALING’S.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction. .1. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
THE THEATRE COOL AND BEAUTIFUL.
EVERY EVENING, AT 8.
FLO II ODOR A.
Produced by Wybert Stamford.
PLANS AT PALING’S
National amphitheatre, sydnei
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
BRENNAN-FULLER’S VAUDEVILLE CO.
PEDRINI, the World’s Most Astoundirur Equilibrist,
assisted by TOBY, the Educated Baboon.
BUFFALO VERNON. Champion Roper of America.
Presented by JULES GARRISON & his ROM AN MAIDS,
Reproductions of r he works of Master-painter - of all ages.
FRED CURRAN, in New Chorus Songs and Parodies.
LA PRANCE, Novel Art Poses. BEN HASSAN.
Prices : 2/6, 2/-, 1/-, 6d. Holidays & Saturdays, 3/-, 2/-, if-
Amusements.
DEITHI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
k Direction and Management, George Marlow, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING.
A UNIQUE, BEWILDERING, DRAMATIC SPECTACLE-
THE MONK AND THE WOMAN.
Brilliantly Interpreted by the Specially Augmented
GEORGE MARLOW DRAMATIC COMPANY.
A SERIES OF WONDERFUL SPECTACLES.
Prices : 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & 1/- Early Doors. all parts, 6d. extra.
p ALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF
ALLEN DOONE
in the
WEARING OF THE GREEN.
SATURDAY NEXT, JANUARY 3,
THE PARISH PRIEST.
PRICES : 4/-, 2/6, 1/- Early Doors, 6d. extra.
PLAN AT PALING’S.
E LYCEUM, SYDNEY.
X H
SPENCER’S PICTURES LTD.
Direction: C. SPENCER.
THE PREMIERE PICTURE HOUSE IN
AUSTRALIA.
PRICES AND PLAN AS USUAL.
WE CHANGE MONDAYS AND THURSDAYS.
Q LACIARIUM and" OLYMPIA, SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE'S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICT T RES, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEE—SATURDAY.
DE GROKN'S VICEREGAL ORCHESTRAS.
3d. to 2s. Plan at Nicholson’s (No Extra Fee).
DICKARDS’ TIVOLI IlIKATI! IS.
■ * Personal Direction : MR. HUGH D. McINTOSH.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
FLORENCE BAINES, the Girl vvhoset London Laughing.
CLAIRE ROMAINE, England’s Male Impersonator.
ALEXANDER PRINCE, Leading Concertina Soloist.
MDLLE. MARGO, “The Mystic Lady.”
BORNEO GARDINER, Siffleur. CHAS. ZOLI, Comedian.
BENI ZOUG ZOUG ARABS, 16 Tumblers and Acrobats.
TAYLOR & ARNOLD, Ragtime Comedians.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
Prices : 3/- & ]/- Early Doors & Booked Seats, 1/- extra.
OPE R A HOUSE. MELBOURNE.
w Personal Direction : MR. HUGH D. McINTOSH.
DE BIERE, a Delightful Entertainment of all that is
Fascinating in Magic.
LANCASTER OPERA CO., in “ Voices in Gypsyland.”
MY FANCY, one of the World’s Greatest Dancers.
WELCH & CARBASSE, Laugh Makers from the
Legitimate.
WILL WHITBURN, Australia’s Quaint Oddity.
ALBERTO MARINI, late Quinlan Opera Co.
NELLA WEBB, Incomparable American Diseuse.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—3s., 25., Is.
"yiIEATRE ROYAL, .MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
Brilliant and Sumptuous Production of
Shakspeare's
ANTONY AND CLEOPATRA
PRICES—Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 7/6.
Stalls, 4/- Gallery, 2/- Plan at Allan’s.
Sole Lessee and Manager : William Andkrson.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
FIRST AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTION
of
Jo. Smith’s Play of the Northern Territory,
THE GIRL OF THE NEVER NEVEI
POPULAR PRICES. PLANS AT ALLAN’t
Amusements.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee: GEO. MARLOW LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
GEORGE MARLOW’S BRILLIANT DRAMATIC CO. in
The Latest London Dramatic Success,
THE GIRL WHO TOOK THE WRONG
TURNING.
Prices 4/-. 3/-, 2/-, 1/- Plan at Pianola Co.
| | ICR .MAJESTY'S THEATRE, .MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
FIRST PRODUCTION
of
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S ANNUAL EXTRAVAGANZA,
PUSS IN BOOTS.
THE LAST WORD IN PANTOMIMES.
Plan at Allan’s. Reserved Seats & Dress Circle, 6/-
o”l LIES OPEN-AIR THEATRE,
St. Kilda Esplanade.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.30.
J. and N. TAIT present Mr. Walter George’s
FAMOUS ENGLISH ENTERTAINERS,
T H E is M A \l T S E T.
MAGNIFICENT PROGRAMME.
CHANGE EVERY SATURDAY NIGHT.
PRICES: 2/- (reserved), 1/6, 1/-, and 6d.
BOX PLAN at ALLAN’S and HABER'S. ST. KILDA.
nil R. EDWARD BRANSCOMBE’S
IV! FIVE COMPANIES OF
D A N D I E S.
EVERY EVENING.
CREMORNE GARDENS, BRISBANE, at 8.30.
“ARCADIA” (late Royal Yacht Club), opp. the Pier,
ST. KILDA, at 8.30.
EDEN GARDENS, MANLY, at 8.5.
EXHIBITION GARDENS, ADELAIDE.
PRINCESS COURT. ROCKHAMPTON, NIGHTLY.
IKECTION AMALGAMATED PICTURES
LTIJ.
Melbourne’s Latest and Finest Picture Palace.
THE MAJKSTIC THE AIRE.
FLINDERS STREET, opp. Princes Bridge Station.
Continuous Matinges Daily from 12 to 6 o’clock.
3d., 6d. and 1/-
Evening Prices: 2/-, 1/6, l/ - and 6d. Plan at Allan s.
OLYMPIA. OLYMPIA.
L Y M P I A. MELBOURNE
(Just across Princes Bridge).
WHERE ARE TO BE SEEN THE UNRIVALLED
SPENCER’S PICTURES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS AT 2.30.
EVERY NIGHT AT 8.
YA# E~s" T'S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
ihe best WEST S PICTURES, tiik BES - r
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8. Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays,
and All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Anv Moving Picture Worthv of Note alwavs to be
seen at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change
every week. Prices —6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
LYRIC THEATRE, Chapel St„ Prahran. Vic.
EVERY NIGHT at 8. MATINEE, SATURDAY,
at 2.30.
THE FAMOUS “NON-FLICKER”
PHOTOPLAYS
on tiie Marvellous “Mack” Screen, together with ttir
Stinorh LYRIC ORCHESTRA. fid. to 2s. Plans at
Allan's, C. M. Read’s and the Lyric Theatre Caf6.
What
You Want is Lessons in Elocution.
ELOCUTION BY POST.
“One of the srrang-e mysteries of life is that those who have somethin? to
say worth hearing do not take the slightest trouble to learn how to make it
properly heard.”—'William Ewart Gladstone
The Distinguished Actor
Walter Bentley
— of World-Wide Fame
Teaches by Post or by Private Lessons.
The Stage a Speciality. Many Engagements Made. Good Speaking a Commercial Asset.
All further information and arrangement of time of
Private Tuition and Fee« can be ascertained on
application at i he College or by letter.
TT 554 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
TRY IT AND TRUST IT.
When your stationer shows you the Onoto Safety Fountain
Pen—write a word or two with it. You will be surprised at
the ease with which it slips over the paper. It is an ideal
writing implement. But that is not all—the Onoto
—Fills itself in a flash from any ink supply
—Never leaks and never splutters nor scratches
—And it is British made.
Really it is worth while to insist on having an Onoto Pen.
It costs you only 12 /- (a little more for the new G model).
Get one to-day at any good stationers, jewellers or stores.
Booklet about the Onoto Pen free on application to Thos. Dk La
Rue & Co., Ltd., 172, Bunhill Row, London, E.C., or the Australasian
Representative, Norman Baker, 50 York Street, Sydney
UpwardrA
note
Self-Filling - -
Safety Fountain
Pen
IMPORTANT.—For those who require a larger pen with
a very flexible mb, we have put on the market a special
model-the new G. It is exceptional value for the money.
1 ry this new G at your stationer’s. y
You feel a man-every inch of you-but you want also to look a man. Then
CAPILLARINE
raisssr°S3S&ff. aj&rsw <&•&
PRICE 10/6. Post Free.
Th ' - "if h '>» l '*P“ W. moustache.
' ’ 7 ’ 0/0 eacn ’ Send for our Illustrated Pricelist.
Craig & AitKen,
654. George Street, Sydney
Established 30 Years.


Waterman’s
(IdihF
Fountain Pen
One of the good things of the
World. Helps you to other
good things, too. For Water-
man’s Ideal so speeds your
writing work that you have
more leisure at your disposal.
If time is of value to you. at
once obtain this—the World’s
great Time-saver.
Over 1,000,000
Waterman’s Ideals
Purchased Yearly.
7 hat shows what the W /rid
thinks of Waterman’s Ideal !
In 4 Sty os —Regular-nd Self-Filling,
12 6 and upwards ; Safety and Pump-
rilling, 15/- and upwards.
Of Stationers & Jewellers everywhere.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, Ltd.,
Koh-i-norr House, London, England.
“Things done by halves are never
done right.” “Golcryst,” the new aper-
ient made from Epsom Salts, Senna,
Sarsaparilla, Dandelion, Liquorice and
Ginger, “gets to business” thoroughly.
There are no half measures about
“Golcryst.” Yet there is no griping
nor weakening. “Golcryst” has no equal
as a Blood purifying and Rheumatism
curing medicine.
Everywhere 3d., 6d. and Is. sample
posted free by Proprietors,
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO.,
Melbourne.
JASON
Unshrinkable
HOSIERY.
For YOU and ME
There is Nothing to Equal
Noumos
NOW OIOS
Its Soothing, Healing Powers have been
proved beyond a shadow of doubt.
Rheumatic Gout, Sciatica, Rheumatism,
Neuralgia, Sprains, Strains, etc., all yield
to its irresistible potency. One jar will
convince j'ou !
2/6 Jars obtainable from your Chemist or Store-
keepers; post free for 3/- from
SOLOMON COX & SON
439 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant-
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68i PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
CONFIDENTIAL LETTERS
r.
(LrrrtH'.
ZZSZ 0^
remain Private when the Zanetic
N.S.C. Copying Book is used.
You slip your note paper into the
holder, write your letter, and the
copy is made as you write (in ink).
“Letter shows no sign of Copying”
The letter is posted and the book
put away. 400 Octavo ( Bin. by 5 )
letters or 200 Quarto can he copied
in N.S.C./200, Post Free for 3/9:
of 800 Octavo or 400 Quarto in
N.S.C./400, Post Free, for 5/.
Special Small Octavo Book, mak-
ing 200 copies, for P.O. 8/• Post
Free; or double capacity 4/3.
Zanetic Pens, 3d. doz./2/- ftross. Zanetic Writing Paper size
Bxs, l/-pkt., 10x 8,2/- Sample of the Zmetic Ink paper Which
produces this result. Free, if stamped envelope sent to :
S. B. ZANETIC, Zanetic Works, Wellord Road, LEICESTER, England.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Establish kt> IS4St.
HAS
MONEY
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
■T*/") T T'TVTTI On Security or Freehold or Leasehold
aJ City or Suburban Properties, or on
reehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the orivilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
DiRECTORS--The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C.. Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : The
Don. Jam s Burns, M.L.C.; The Hon. It J. Black, M.L.C. ; The Hon. F. E. Winchcomhe, M.L.C. ; Adrian
General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teeee, F.1.A., F.F.A.. F.S.S.
H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
HEAD OFFICE : 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (O O) Whisky.
Dog's Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated "Waters and Cordials.
THE NEW
MODEL
No. 597
Aitiount
Purchased
&*
THE NEW FEATURES OF THIS REGISTER.
Nine separate totals in pounds, shilling's and
pence of different kinds of transactions and of the sales of different
assistants, in addition to grand total of all cash sales.
Amount of each cash sale made by each assistant is
automatically added into a separate total. Every time a sale is made
the amount is added to the total previously shown for that assistant.
Every penny received for cash sales is recorded twice by
this register—on the adding wheels of the assistant making the sale
and on the ‘ 1 secret ’ ’ or grand total adder. A. printed record giving full
particulars is made at the lame time.
Amount in pounds, shillings and pence received in payment of
accounts is shown on another set of adding wheels. This obviates the
necessity of going through dockets or cash book to tind how much money
has been received oh account —the total is ready at all times.
Total value of all goods sold on credit is recorded separately. A
glance will show the amount of credit business for the day or to date
from any stated time. This record enables the shopkeeper to see at once
what his total turnover has been.
Every penny paid out is added to previous total amount of
disbursements.
Think of the advantages of having all these separate totals and of
being able to obtain such valuable information by merely turning a key
and glancing at the records.
THESE ARE SOME OF THE IMPROVEMENTS.
National Gash Register Go. of Australasia
LTD.,
335 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
343 Quean Street, Brisbane. 281 Murray Street, Perth.
50 Bourke Street, Melbourne 117 a Bundle Street, Adelaide.
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Drink Wisely
ui nirv niaciT / /
MONTSERRAT
Lime-Truit Juice.
I don’t care two straws for any but
MONTSERRAT Lime Juice.
It’s a fine healthy, cooling, and refresh-
ing drink, and keeps me fit in the hot
weather. montserra t is sold by
all leading Storekeepers.
HTO SAY THE LEAST,
when the food particles
are brushed from the
teeth their opportunity for mischief ends. But
that opportunity becomes slight indeed when the
teeth receive a regular antiseptic cleansing with
Sold by
local Chemists
and Stores.
Calvert's
*?9oih Met
Made by
F. C. Calvert ft Co.,
Manchester, Eng.
ARE YOU
DEAF?
If you are deaf, or going deaf, you will be glad to
hear of a simple and scientific device which restores
hearing, no matter how old you are. No mystery or
secrecy about it; we describe it fully, and explain
just how it acts. You use spectacles as sight magni-
fiers, and in the same way you use this sound magni-
fier to hear better. Unlike spectacles, the Wilson
Common-sense Ear-Drums are invisible and comfort-
able. No one can tell you are wearing them. They
rest the ear nerves by taking the strain off them —the
strain of trying to hear indistinct sounds. What a
relief to have done with that tiring strain. Being
made of the softest Para rubber they cannot be felt,
even when the head rests on a pillow. For the same
reason, a blow on the side of the head will not hurt
the ear. They protect the tender inner parts of the
ear, that are so sensitive, from cold winds, dust, sud-
den and piercing sounds.
So that you may clearly understand ho\v the Sound
Magnifiers restore hearing, we give an illustration of
one as it lies in the ear. You will notice that the
Sound Magnifier is shaped like a trumpet, and so con-
veys even the faintest sounds right to the natural drum.
Be'ng of the softest rubber, it cannot hurt the ear
It fits the orifice of the ear
with precision and comfort.
The division that runs
across the mouth is to al-
low the removal and inser-
tion of the Ear-Drum, and
to brace it.
The shape of the Wilson
Ear-Drum has been chosen
after years of experience as
the best adapt-
ed to carry the
faintest sound.
Of course, if
you have lost
the h e a r i ng-
nerve c o m-
pletely, or were
born deaf, we
cannot pretend ~
to cure you. Only a miracle could
do that, in spite of some of the
absurd claims made to-day. But
of you can hear the faintest sound,
do not despair. You will never
regret trying the Wilson Ear-
Drums. We have letters to show
you from deaf people in Australia
and New Zealand, who have been _
cured, and you can be cured, too. You may wear
the Ear-Drums day and night, and take them out
whenever you wish. Children can wear them (we
have special sizes for children from six to twelve).
Even a child can insert and remove them without the
least danger.
The price is £1 (the fee for a doctor’s single
visit). This includes a pair of drums (they are only
sold in pairs), a fine nickel remover, and also an
inserter. After the first pair is bought you may pur-
chase a single drum at any time for Bs., but the
pair you get at first will last quite two years. Do
not ask for a trial pair. We do not send them out
on trial, and so they are never secondhand. Use the
Order form below, and the Outfit will be sent you
at once, with the fullest instructions. Don’t delay,
but have the comfort of good hearing as soon as you
can.
?<?
fV
ORDER FORM.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
103 Arlington Chambers,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please send me an Outfit containing a pair of
Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums, an Inserter and a
Remover, for which I enclose One Pound.
Name
Address
NOTE. —Send Money Order or Postal Note. If a
Bank Note or Sovereign is sent, you must register it.
WHEN ORDERING
(Mum
ALE
Insist on
FOSTERS
4 Bugle
Brand’
THE REASON IS
SIMPLE.
THERE’S NO OTHER A
JUST AS GOOD.
HIM R O D'S
ASTHMA POWDER
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
No matter what your Respiratory
Organs may be suffering from—
whether Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough —you will
find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
FROM SOUTH AFRICA
TWO TIPS with
OSPREY.
Black, White,
Cream, and Black
ipped with White
Length, 9 inches.
5/ The Bunch,
Post Free.
We make this Special Offer to
advertise our Ostrich Tips. W'rite
to-day. Send Postal Note.
Catalogue Free.
MILLER'S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin. ] [3


ALL HAIR CAME OFF
Hard Lumps Formed with Matter
Underneath, Sores Always Itching
and Burning, Spread to Face.
Used Cuticura Soap and Oint-
ment. Sores Cleared Away.
Sturt St., Beaufort, Vic.—“My little girl
who is now four years old suffered almost
from birth from eczema on her head due to
/m -%&
V
the nurse never attending to
her properly. It used to
form hard lumps all over
her head with matter under-
neath and the sores were
always itching and burning.
After a time all tho hair
came oil and the eczema
spread to her face.
“ One day I saw your ad-
vertisement of a free sample
of Cuticura Ointment and
sent for one and after using the Ointment on
her head and face for about six weeks and
washing her head with Cuticura Soap the
sores all cleared away and her hair com-
menced growing and is now lovely and curly.
I would not be without Cuticura Ointment
and Soap in the house as they are a splendid
remedy for all sorts of sores and cuts.”
(Signed) Mrs. Lily Camm, June 24, 1911.
The regular use of Cuticura Soap for toilet
and bath not only tends to preserve, purify
and beautify the skin, scalp, hair and hands,
but assists in preventing inflammation, irri-
tation and clogging of the pores, the common
cause of pimples, blackheads, redness and
roughness, yellow, oily, mothy and other un-
wholesome conditions of the skin. Cuticura
Soap and Cuticura Ointment are sold every-
where. Liberal sample of each mailed free,
with 32-p. Skin Book. Address It. Towns
& Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
f
f,
An Interesting
Experiment.
II you would like to see the alteration Grey
Hairs make, just lay a piece of paper over each of
the two halves of the above portrait. The Grey
“ half” will then be seen to have the appearance
of 45 years of age, whereas the other half looks
only 30. Dr. B. Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut
Stain will make all those years of difference if you
are prey or prematurely grey. It is perfectly
harmless, easy to apply, and will quickly restore
the hair to the natural shade of youth, or younger
years.
Dr. B. Allen’s (u.s.a.)
Mexican
Walnut Stain
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suit-
able for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Heard or
Moustache. None genuine without the signature
of— Alfred. Ardley (Registered in the Patents
Office of the Commonwealth).
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
Australian Magazine. THE LONE
I HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d.
The Liver is the
Road to Health
If the liver is right the whole svstem is
right. CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER PILLS
V 44 , i i
will gently awaken your
sluggish, clogged-up liver
and cure constipation,
stomach trouble, in-
active bowels, loss
of appetite,
sick head-
ache and
dizziness.
Purely
vegetable.
Carters
Wjttle
iIVER
I P,LLS -
You need them,
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price,
The GENUINE must bear signature
trcC.
HOWTO
GROW HAIR
A Simple, Safe and Reliable Way that Produces Surprising Results.
NEW PREPARATION CAUSES BIG STIR AMONG HAIR SPECIALISTS.
The above clearly shows Results from a Short Course of my True Hair "Growing Compound.
10,000 FREE TRIAL BOXES.
Those who are troubled with falling hair, dandruff,
baldness, itching scalp, etc., know full well the
humiliation that they cause. There is no need, how-
ever, of such conditions. These troubles can be
quickly overcome by my True Hair Grower.
I am not an advertising quack, but am a business
man. My hair began to grow thin about the time
1 reached the age of thirty. When I had reached the
age of thirty-five the top of my head was quite bald.
I had considerable pride, and sought for something
to cause renewed growth. I invested in every pre-
paration that I could see or hear of, and here let me
say that not only did I try all the Knglish so-called
restorers, but those of Continental Europe. I also
visited specialists. My experimenting cost me many
sovereigns and considerable time—yet the hairs came
not. I had given up the idea of ever growing hair
again. One afternoon, while enjoying a brief busi-
ness respite by an Alpine trip, I fell in with an old
collegiate chemist, whose hair was particularly plen-
tiful. I jokingly remarked that I wished he could
spare some of his hair for my benefit. This lead him
to tell me that he understood the human hair as well
as a good dentist understands teeth. He wrote out a
formula, and suggested that I have a quantity of the
compound prepared. I did this a few days later. I
was astonished to see the hair coming forth after
several applications, and within six weeks my head
was covered by a firm, yet soft, black growth of hair.
Since then the hair on my head has been as luxuriant
as when in my school days. Having arranged far
the legal right to do so, 1 have for some time been
privately selling this marvellous hair-growing com-
pound. I hold over one thousand letters from people
who have actually grown new hair through the
medium of my true hair grower. I do not pretend
to say it is the only hair grower in the world —-I am
not interested in decrying others—but I do assert
that it is the most reliable, and in the end by far the
cheapest.
Baldness, Dandruff, Itching, etc.,
Free Trial Coupon.
Cut out this Coupon and send with 3 stamps
to cover postage, etc., and I will immediately
post a large trial box of my True Hair Grower.
John Craven Burleigh, Dept. 7, 107 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
The “Swan-Safety” is simpler and more reliable than any
other pen made; may be carried in any position, in any pocket,
handbag, or trunk, without fear of leakage; with the “ladder”
feed, erratic working is out of the question; the nib is the
product of over 60 years’ experience; the holder is beautifully
balanced and holds a good supply of ink.
SWA
PO««Tf»BN.
Sold by all
Stationers.
Catalogue Free on Request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London, W.C.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only):
J. A. BURKE, 15 Waltham Building. 24 Bond St., Sydney.
Nothing can surpass
HORROCKSES’
SHEETINGS for
durability
LATEST VICTORY
GRAND PRIZE
BRUSSELS
EXHIBITION. 1910
When Buying see HORROCKSES’ name on
Face-plait, and decline all substitutes.
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and
Storekeepers.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/IJ, 2/9 & 4/6.
Made in England.
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
eftectu all y
cuts short all
attacks ot
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
‘he cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acts like a charm In
DIARRHCEA and simple DYSENTERY.
•«?§
X&s ..;>
~\
*s
fl
The food that enjoys the universal recom-
mendation of medical men.
fll For use during illness and con-
valescence.
For weakly infants and over-
growing children.
§ As a supplementary food in
cases of malnutrition, and in all cases of
dyspepsia and impaired digestion.
• r-
is soothing and comforting, when other foods cause pain It is
the most easily digested of all foods, but is not pre-digested
A full va ~ i i . ® *
™fi?iiw l as!r bwrimmm
11V, Pitt Street, SYDN
Bio* n;
Food
Business, Robbery, etc.
From an Australian business man, looking for
points in Toronto (Canada) : Australia is all right.
It scores nearly every how. Walking down the
principal street just now, I met the brass-plate of an
electric-belt fraud that we made things too warm for
on our side. Canada, however, stands these people.
It will stand just anything in that way. I’ve, in this
last quarter-hour, rung three firms on the telephone.
Three minutes apiece. That cost me 30 cents—
Is. 3d. And the Australian business man, wanting
something to bark at the Commonwealth Government
about, rebelled lately at paying one cent (id.) a
call. Immigrants? Heaps of them here. But this
will tell you what sort. One large factory (they
employ 4000 hands) had notices up to employees in
six languages! Quantity, all right; but I won’t
swear to the quality.
* * * *
“Hee Kee” : A recent cable states that the London
Chamber of Commerce has estimated the loss on Aus-
tralian leather, due to careless branding and flaying,
at £1,500,000 per annum. The W.A. Brands Act
stipulates that all beast-marks _ shall consist of two
letters and a numeral —except in the case of brands
registered at the time the Act came into force —and
provides that the letters and numeral shall be not
less than 2in. in width. There is no stipulation con-
cerning a maximum width and length, and the result
is that brands run anywhere from 6in. to 18in. in
length, and 2in. to Bin. in width. Recently I came
across a hide which bore a device measuring 8 in. by
2J/in. A brand is supposed to grow with an animal,
until it is 50 per cent, larger than the original im-
pression, so that this barbarous hallmark of Prop-
puty must have originally measured 6in. by 16m.
When such a slab of heated ironmongery is planked
on the most valuable part of the hide, the loss caused
is as obvious as a Sunday morning thirst.
“The Governor’s Slaughterman”: High enough now,
the price of meat in Sydney has nevertheless been
higher. In 1808 a cow and calf were sold by auction
for £lO5, and the price of medium cattle was
from £4O to £6O per head. A breeding mare was
then worth from 150 to 200 guineas, and ewes were
costing £2 to £4 each. Dunno what lamb chops
cost at the time; probably there weren’t any.
. * * *
The Ceramic, the White Star Co.’s new 18,000-
tonner, will scrape into Sydney about next June, when
the winter gales are waving their creamy whiskers
along the coast. A Darling Harbor berth has already
been prepared for the long, deep ship, and when it
has a full load on, and the tide is at its lowest,
there will be a whole 6in. of fluid betwen the bot-
tom and the mud. It suggests an anxious time in
the offing for Melbourne, which has to pile in a
second lot of goods, because the southern port owns
a rocky harbor entrance, upon which a smaller ship
than the Ceramic once stumbled with sufficient
violence to ring the bell over the crow’s nest.
“Leo Lear”: If “Inchiquin” (B. 21/11/’l2)
thinks the Australian farmer is swindled when he
gets for a wheat bag for which he has just paid
6-id., I’d like to ask what he considers an appropriate
term in which to describe transactions in wool
packs? This year the farmer had to pay as much as
3s. sd. for a jute envelope to enclose his sheep’s
dress. Do the wool-buyers allow him for this? You
bet! They deduct 111 b. from the weight of every
bale of wool, and get the pack for nothing. Then,
having got it for nothing, they sell it back to the
foreign jute manufacturer, who makes it up into
new bales, and sells them to the farmer for 3s. sd.
“Vagabond” : The behuca of the Philippines seems
to run a close second to the Maori’s flax as the most
useful herbage of the earth. It is a species of cane,
and takes the place of everything in the shape of
rope, string, furniture, nails and building material
that the natives require. They build their houses
without the use of a single nail, lashing every piece
of timber in place with behuca. Split fine it is used
to weave baskets, to make whips or to moor canoes.
The native cuts a length of the stout stick, ties a
cord-like strip on each end for the attachment of
bundles, slings it over his shoulders, and walks off
humping a ton or two of truck, Chink fashion. It
makes a covering: and a handle for the huge flasks
of native wine; it is used to lash the outriggers on
the canoes; a string of it makes a belt for the
Filipino to sling his bolo (the popular heavv km'fe)
on. In spite of its universal use, there isn’t much
chance of a shortage in supply. The islands are
covered with it, and as it grows in a wild riot of
twists and tangles and knots and bowlines, anyone
who wants to wade through it has to chop out every
foot of his track. Half a mile a day is reckoned
good going through behuca jungle. It is getting to
be quite an emigrant, too ; you can meet it any day
doing the Block in Australian cities in the form of
rattan walking-sticks, and you’ve probably sat on it
often in those lazy lounge deck-chairs with the hump
under your knees and the arm-rests with holes in
them to receive the long, cool drink.
« * * »
“Dux”: Re Tatt.’s, has anyone got a champion
hard-luck story ? Here’s mine. Strolled into a
tobacconist’s—the usual “agency” in Maoriland—
and planked down 12s. for two tickets. While old
Briar was dotting down my name and address, I
espied a likely-looking six-bob pipe in a show-case,
and requested the agent to make it one ticket and
the pipe. There is more profit in a pipe than a
Tatt.’s ticket for Briar, so he gladly assented. In
due course the single ticket arrived, and later on
the result of the “draw.” The ticket next to mine
landed £lOO, so you can figure out what that pipe
cost me. It was a rotten pipe, too !
* * * *■
“Looking Backward”: The Sydney Gazette of
December 21, 1844, contains an item headed
“Aerodiphor and Aerial Courier Company.” It
describes the eo.’s prospectus. The idea was to form
a. “company for navigating the air, thd projector of
which is Mr. W. H. Phillips.” This Phillips had
patented in England a machine which he claimed
would carry 10 or a dozen passengers and an
equivalent weight of luggage. Its travelling rate
was 100 miles an hour, “which can be increased if
necessary,” The co.’s nominal capital was £500,000
in 5000 shares of £lOO each, half to go to the
publio and half to be held by the vendor. Concern-
ing the fate of the project I can find no trace in the
newspaper file; evidently there was so much hot
air in the prospectus that it burst the scheme. >
THE VERSE-CASTERS’ UNION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Ironmoulders’ Society of South Aus. has
expelled a member who refused to limit his produc-
tion of copper eastings to 55 a week. For every
casting in excess of 50 he had been earning an extra
9d., and when he had thus increased his minimum
wage of £3 to as much as £3 15s. a week, the
union thought it time to serve the inveterate toiler
with an ultimatum.
Now, hark you, Son of Labor,
Hark to the badged bard!
Your duty to your neighbor
Is not to labor hard ;
Employers through their sweating
Enjoy ill-gotten pelf—
Oh, do not you be getting
The craze to sweat yourself.
A certain sum of wages,
To them who do not shirk,
The greedy boss engages
To pay for certain work;
But if you try to better
Your wage by working more,
’Tis you are then the sweater
The Go-slow Guilds abhor.
Herewith I bang my tabor,
And tell you once again—-
He hates the Cause of Labor
Who grafts with might and main.
The Bards’ Association
My name shall never curse —
I’ll curb my inclination
To cast another verse.
VICTORIA.
O.K.


•*«->*
ft
******** 11 11 *
i- >
■~- . _ ■ _'J , -A**. __ --
sf 35s T
VAREXO
Universal
droppers
(Patented)
are not weakened by holes or slots.
THEY WILL NOT SNAP OFF
ON THE FENCE.
“Varexo” Droppers fit any Fence.
The depressions which carry the wires are not cut out, but are dented
back, so that all the metal is preserved. The cheaper Wire Loops are
a satisfactory fastening, but the Wedge-Clips render the Droppers
absolutely immovable under the most trying circumstances.
If you cannot obtain prices from your own Merchant, write to
VAREXO DROPPERS LTD.,
Cr. LEICESTER & QUEENSBERRY STREETS, CARLTON, MELBOURNE,
WHO WILL GIVE YOU THE NAME OF NEAREST MERCHANT PREPARED TO QUOTE.
HORSE and CATTLE
SYRINGE— SHARPE’S.
THE BEST, Most Complete, INJECTION SYRINGE.
About 24 inches long. Brass, nickel-plated.
Has nickel-plated movable Foot Piece.
Valves cannot break, stick or corrode.
Fitted with 4 feet Best Tubing, with Large and
Small Nozzles. Gives Continuous Stream.
Used with ordinary Stable Bucket.
VERY USEFUL. BEST QUALITY.
Vet. Advice Free —by our Vet. Surgeon.
WRITE FOR KNIFE and VET. LIST.
SHARPE & SHARPE
18 Bridge St.,
SYDNEY.
Post OQ { Any-
Free where.
A
- ii
R-C-H "Twenty-Five”
EQUIPMENT.
WHEELBASE- —IXO inches.
MOTOR —Long-stroke ; 4 cylinders cast en bloc ;
3}-ineh bore, 5-inch stroke. Two-bearing
crank shaft. Timing gears and valves en-
closed. Three-point suspension.
STEERING —RIGHT SIDE. Irreversible worm
gear, 16-inch steering wheel. Throttle con-
trol on stering column.
CONTROL —CENTRE LEVER operated through
H-plate, integral with universal joint hous-
ing just below. Hand-lever emergency
brake at driver’s left. Foot accelerator in
connection with hand throttle.
SPRINGS —Front, semi-elliptic; rear, full ellip-
tic and mounted on swivel seats.
FRAME —Pressed steel channel.
AXLES —Front, I-beam, drop-forged; rear,
semi-floating type.
TRANSMISSION —3 speeds forward and reverse;
sliding gear, selective type.
CONSTRUCTION —Drop-forgings wherever prac-
ticable ; chrome nickel steel used throughout
all shafts and gears in the transmission and
rear axle; high carbon manganese steel in
all parts requiring special stiffness.
BODY—FuII 5-passenger English type; extra
wide seats.
SPECIFICATIONS.
Non-Skid Tyres—32 x 34 inch.
12-inch “Hall” Bullet electric headlights, double
parabolic lens.
6-inch “Hall” Bullet electric side lights, with
parabolic lens.
“Exide” 100 ampere-hour electric battery.
Bosch Magneto.
Warner Autometer.
Demountable Rims.
Extra rim and holders.
Tallv-ho horn.
Jiffv curtains —Up or down instantaneously.
Top and top cover.
Windshield
Rear view mirror.
Tool-kit. jack, tyre repair kit, pump.
Robe rail.
2-Seater, £230
5-Seater, £295
ONE of the best proofs of R-C-H
value is the number of buyers
who heretofore have been
driving cars costing from to
And there’s a good reason for it. You
get in the R-C-H the utmost in comfort,
in looks and in strength. You get power
sufficient to take you and your family
wherever you want to go, and fastei
than you’ll ever want to drive. You get
an economy of operation impossible in
the high-priced car. You get complete
equipment of the best quality. And you
save from £lOO to £2OO.
The easiest way to prove these things
is to let us demonstrate the R-C-H to
you. We’ll do it whenever you’re ready.
And we’re perfectly willing to abide bj
your judgment.
Correspondence invited from
responsible dealers in any
vacant territory.
HARRY W. COOPER MOTOR CO., LTD.,
Agents for Australia and Tasmania,
t st i ip i fit c&p *s 'y n •
KERR & STEVENS MOTOR CO., 408-18 Latrobe Street, ' Walls.’
BOWEN & TAYLOR, Ltd., 253-259 Elizabeth St., Sydney, Sub " Tasmania.
FOSTFP & WELLS, Davev St., Hobart, Sub-agents fo - •
WITTMAN MOTOR SUPPLY CO., Hay St., Perth, Sub-agents for West Austra .a.
R-C-H CORPORATION, Export Department,
170 LYCASTE STREET, DETROIT, MICHIGAN, U.S.A.
CABLE ADDRESS : "ROBCHCORP DETROITMICH.” CABLE CODES : Western Union, L,»b«,
A 1, and ABC 4th and sth editions, ‘2 in 1 code condenser.
“The Lancet” on
Virginia
CIGARETTES
They are leaf and nothing but leaf, uninjured or soiled
by mechanical treatment. The specimens analysed show
that due hygienic precautions are observed during
their manufacture.”
The perfect hygienic conditions
under which they are made, and the
sublime quality of the tobacco used
make them the most healthy
smoking that men can enjoy
> VJ»
1'
fa
\ A,
-I
TMT
*O4
m
T
ISrOT
iifej
:au
10 20
Gd. 1 /-
\viMfr®"
Cigarettes are obtainable at all Leading
Tobacconists, Hotels, Clubs, etc., throughout
Australia.
Sole Manufacturers of Winfred Cigarettes:
Ardath Tobacco Co., Ltd.,
Britain's Greatest High-class
Cigarette Factory,
LONDON. Eng.
WHAT’S TRUMPS?
Why Marshall's Engines every time.
Who Leads ? “ Marshall's " Again !
In the world’s Steam Engine trade
the “Marshall” is regarded as the
JOKER
and scores against all comers.
No matter what type of Steam En-
gine you require, make a point of
inspecting the “Marshall” before
finally deciding.
All sizes in Portables from 2 to
2.1 H.P. Light and Heavy Tractions,
Horizontal and Vertical Stationary,
also Boilers.
Cash or Terms.
Catalogues Free.
MARVELLOUS RESULTS
ARE EVERYWHERE OBTAINED WITH
The BIG CHIEF Oil Engines
Vs
mmwA
m
£L
whieh are the highest-grade American
production on the market.
They are easy to start, and will keep on
running (providing they are properly oiled)
until you require to stop. The equipment is
complete in every detail, and includes Wizard
Magneto, Double Fly Wheels and Muffler.
Being hopper cooled, no troubles need be
feared from leaky tanks.
If you wish to provide yourself with a
reliable motive power, send us your inquiry.
We will give you expert advice by return
mail—positively gratis.
All sizes Engines, 2 to 12 B.H.P.—using
Benzine or Kerosene as Fuel.
Cash or Easy Terms. Catalogues Free.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO. Limited
161 Clarence Street, Sydney


It doesn’t matter whether
you have shillings or
pounds to spend, we will
fit you out better than
any other house. SEND
YOUR ORDER —NOW.
RODS.
The “Perfection” Split Cane Fly Rod, ll feet, 3 joints, 2
tops, cork grip, waterproof lock joints, best agate bridge and
end rings. Highest quality £7/10/-
No. 1. Split Cane Trout Rod, 10i and ll feet, 3 joints,
3 tops, cork grip, lock joints, agate bridge and end rings. This
ThA r lc closely whipped £5/10/-
-Uie M.S. Split Cane Rod, 10$ and 11$ feet, 3 joints, 2 tops
cork grip, solid winch fittings, serrated ferrules, snake rin°-s
etc.
£2
Sa '’ ie above, but with Steel Centre £2/10/-
Our M.S. Specialities are absolutely the biggest value obtainable.
i ’° - ®PDt Cane Rod, 10$ feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, cork grip,
nickel-plated mounting's, spiral guides 7/6
No * 8 - Cane Rod, 12 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops,'cork grip
best fittings, snake rings, welted ferrules, two-color silk whip-
t pings, put up on flannel-covered wood form 22/6
N°. 10. Split Cane Rod, ll feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, cork grip,
nickel-plated fittings, welted ferrules, snake rings, etc. 17/6
JVo. 12. Finest Greenheart Rod, 10$ and 11 feet, 3
joints, 2 tops, cork grip, best lock joints, serrated ferrules, rev.
end rings, best fittings, stained olive green £2/10/-
M.S. Guinea Greenheart Rod, 10} and 11} feet, 3 joints, 2
t°ps,_ cork grip, snake rings, best fittings. A first-class rod,
2l-
/ for any of our trout streams
REELS.
No. 1. _ M.S. Perfection Reels, made of best hardened
aluminium alloy, patent brake attachment—
No 2 1V I rn „ 1 B %in., 30/-
Fly Reels, made of best hardened metal,
optional check, oscillating line guard-
3in., 25/-; 354 in., 27/6; 3% in., 30/-
TRC J.™I „ and PERCH TACKLE.
0 ea mg and Largest Importers in Australia of High-class Fishing Tackle.
Hardy Bros.’ Renowned Specialities.
Hardy’s Patent Contracted Perfect Reel, with ball
eanngs and regulating check, specially designed for drv fly
FTnwi e «r< al trout 3% in., 42/6; 3% in., 45/-
Hardj s Corona Superba” Double Taper Trout Plv
Times, made from highest-quality silk, a beautiful, soft and
pliant line, suitable for wet or dry fly fishing. Length 35
xt y ar , ds V II) I ' 20/-; 1.C.1., 23/6; 1,15.1.7 28/-
ll y kfn/ mpr ° ve(i a^c^on Spinners, very certain in
1 J4in., 2/-; 2/3; 2in., 2/6 3in., 3/3
LINES.
“Kingfisher” Double Taper Trout Fly Lines— a High
class Line—
yart ? s No. 2, 10/-; No. 3, 11/6
40 yards .. No. 1, 11/6; No. 2, 12/6; No. 3, 13/6
42 yards .. No. 4, 22/6; No. 5, 25/-; No. 6, 27/6
1 erfect \\ aterproof Plaited Silk Lines, a good-quality
level line, put up in coils of 25 yards connected —
40, 2/6; No. 30, 3/- per 25 yards
LANDING NETS.
M. “Perfect” Collapsible Trout Net
‘Quicksure” Collapsible Trout Net.
N. Collapsible Net, telescopic handle
CAST CASES (SI BOXES.
XT Palley’s Cast Case, parchment pockets... 0/ „
No. IC. Hand-sewn Pigskin Cast Case, with dressed
castdamper 7/6
No. 2. Japanned Round Cast Box, 4in. diameter 1/6
Aluminium Round Cast Box, with Felt
l/6
FLY BOXES.
!• Best Eyed Ply Boxes, with spring clips, mounted
to Xylonite—
Cli P S -’ 4/6 iw Bs £ lips ’ 5/6 ’’ 119 clips. 7/-
No. 6. Aluminium Fly Box, fitted with 69 Sprint
chps 9/6
No. 1.
No. 8.
No. 9.
No. 1.
No. 5.
pads
16/-
30/-
14/6
3/6
We have absolutely the largest and best assorted stock of Hitrh
Class Fishing Tackle in Australia to select from. Get our List—
lt will save you money.
FISHING BAGS.
No. 1. M.S. Fishing Bag, made from best canvas, with
detachable waterproof lining—
Medium, 12/6; Large, 157-
No. 2. “Perfect” Fishing Bag, made from a strong, light
cloth. Has an expanding net on front—•
Medium, 16/6; Large, 19/6
No. 3. I.X.L. Fishing Bag, made from a strong, light
cloth, with* detachable, rubber-faced cloth lining, and two
pockets on front for carrying tackle —
Medium, 14/6; Large, 16/6
GAFFS.
No. 1. One Slide Telescopic Gaff 7/6
No. 2. Two Slide Telescopic Gaff, with point pro-
tector 13/6
No. 3. Best Two Slide Telescopic Gaff, very su-
perior 17/6
SUNDRIES.
Wading Troupers, made from best Cashmerette, light weight,
strong and durable, all sizes 42/- pair
Brogues, leather, with canvas upper, all sizes 25/- pair
Trout Flies, all the latest and standard patterns, from 2/- doz.
Perch Flies, very best quality 1/6 each
Others, from 6d. each
Spinning Head Flies, for Trout and Perch, a very successful
bait last season. Perch size, 1/6; Trout size, 1/4 each
Spinning Head Halcyons—
-1/4; 2in., 1/6; l/9; 3in., 2/- each
Flying Waterwitch Baits, highly successful —
1 % in., 2/-; 2in., 2/3; 2%in., 2/6; 3in., 3/- each
Rouke Spinners, a good trout bait ’ Qd. each
Invincible Spinners, a splendid bait 9(1. each
THESE ARE ONLY A FEW OF THE LINES
WE STOCK. For a FULL ILLUSTRATED
DESCRIPTION OF ALL FISHING TACKLE
SEE OUR SIXTH EDITION TACKLE CATA-
LOGUE, containing a page of colored flies. The
Biggest and Best Book of its kind published.
Write now posted free anywhere.
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
HEAD
THe Premier TacKle House of Australia,
DEPOT: HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The
Queensland Park
No. 2
(Weight
about 13 lb.}
A perfect style for comfort
and wear, this Saddle can be
used for any kind of riding.
Note the long flaps, long
girth strap. The panel has
leather points. Made on
strong, plated tree. Complete
with mounts,
£.5 15 s.
WE PAY FREIGHT
to Any Port in Australia,
or Any Railway Station
in New South Wales.
THREE GOOD SADDLES!
X
The Wieneke Stock,
“The Rough Rider’s Friend.”
This Saddle is very strongly made for
rough wear— extra strong tree and
kneepads —long flap and girth
straps, roughout flaps. Complete
with best mounts.
£.6 Surcingle, 4/- extra.
Deal Direct with the Makers.
Write To-day for our New Illustrated
Book, “EVERYTHING FOR THE
HORSE,” Post Free
■.o£UB
+ Oc~* r '
Edward Butler 8 Sons Lw*
257 George St., Sydney.
Also at Brisbane
and WarwicK (Q),
The
No. 1
Station.
A plain, strong Saddle,
long flaps, leather
points to panel,
long girth straps,
strong, plated tree.
Complete with mounts,
£4-0-0.
CUTS
on
HORSES
FLINT’S medicated OIL
Is without doubt the most surprisingly prompt cure for Saddle Calls, Cuts.
Rstuia or Broken Knees on horses. It possesses the rare merit of healing
without leaving any blemish, the hair growing in the natural colour. This
distinguishes Flint s Oil from every other preparation. Price 35., from most
stores throughout Australia, and procurable through any wholesale house
such as Elliotr, Pros., Sydney and Brisbane, or from
C. B. FLINT, Manufacturing Chemist, ADELAIDE.
Schute, Bell & Go.
LIMITED,
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS,
44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WOOL STORES Harris Street, Pyrmont.
Se/I on Commission only.
New and thoroughly up-to-
date Stores. Inspection
invited. Personal atten-
tion a feature of the
business.
A Steadily growing com-
pany.
PRODUCE STORES—At hi one Place.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 190$ edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-To-
Date Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
W indow Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is 3d. Parlor Tricks and
Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, Is 2d. All The
Bulletin series. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales, Is 3d.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, Us. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, os. Not Guilty (Blateh-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with. Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is 6d.
&
m
f
m
a
i
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
atm eas it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
to the minds o{ young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mlr-
nage, which maxes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women Doth in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED p ' '
cloth-covered edition of this <Teat work It will’, una ' 3nd S' ed >
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND* SIXPENCE ** t 0
•-BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS —LOVE
BUSINESS, JUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
''in at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
tedrs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrate-d, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to V amp on Piano. Is. Piawo Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, os 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Build sr, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letoer Writer Up-
To-Date, is 3d posted. Speeches 4nd Toasts. Public-
Speaking Made Easi - , Is. posted. Killy Gang or
Bushrangers, illustrations and porwsiits. Is; post
Is _d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Sklf Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses, Is 3d. French
- AUGH 7* Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
os 6d posted. Virile Powers of Scperb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t toe fooled into paying; more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. sm~ Established 25 Yeats.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS A DVT.
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
MTLV STAMPS, MONEY ORDER OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT. ’
posted. T< NbwTricks wiTOoIS,I S £ d ff 8 ' 8 ' 6 ’ 13
OTeS 1 !!™'™"!:, 1 ” M “*• M".io’isi'“ )i":
ssa ?,
u vi 1 ICA ( L Palmistry . is. Champions of the itixo
Is -d. Guide TO Auctioneering, 2s. 6d Secret
History Court of England, is 3d post Loves’
Letter Writer, is. All About Incubators Is M
Morgans Freemasonry Exposed, Key’ to all
Bsa£vs& - xxL
Ingersoll s Works Sd •<« ui ’ i 6d P ost
<ti^TV s 3d p p r k t Sce h to ad !
book’, over S™ 3d
Bennarr Macfadden’s Works’ all If r P [ re f'
Bollers’ 1 Assistant
Its Cure oh\d C t Nervousness and
l7OO ITOO illusfleather
. llu » my pnce, los post paid (whv nnv k onH a
AI, SS DYNA ‘
W“if rajassaassa s&ss


A
M
r c
k
\s
&>
Of
<-t
M
A- >.//." / '\. V>
■rs. A. Pettersoa
l From a I’hoto.)
Suffered for Months
with Disordered Kidneys
“ EVER! TIME I MOVED, A PAIN SHOT THROUGH MY BODY.’*
“ I consider that Dr. Sheldon's Gin Pills are a most excellent remedy,
because of the good they have done me, which is wonderful,’’ writes Mrs A.
Petterson, John Street, Kangaroo Point, Brisbane, Q. “ I suffered for some
months with diseased kidneys and stoppage of water. I was so bad at times
that I really could not get about. The pain in my back was unbearable.
Every time I moved, a pain shot through my body. I was so bad that I
thought my trouble would turn to Bright’s Disease. My appetite was com-
pletely gone, and I was always ailing and so weak that I could not attend
to my household duties. I tried many different remedies, but nothing seemed
to give me any relief whatever. Luckily for me I happened to be talking
to a lady, who recommended Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills, which I got immediately.
After taking them for a reasonable time, the pain from which I suffered
speedily left me. They had the effect of removing the gravel. lam com-
pletely cured, and can do my work as formerly.”
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills act directly upon the Kidneys, cleansing these
organs and the blood of uric acid, which is the cause of Rheumatism, Back-
ache, Lumbago, and similar most distressing pain. They are effecting many
most remarkable cures. All who suffer from these complaints should give
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills a trial. Price 1/0 & 2/6.
Dr Sheldon’s
LLS
BACKACHE
and Kidney Troubles.
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball-
Bearing: Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America,
and by all the’Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing Skate Co., 311 Michigan Btreet, Chicago, U.S.A.
“RICHARDSON"
ft
CHICAGO
HOLLOWAY’S
Pills (o. Ointment
A TRIAL of HOLLOWAY'S PILLS has meant
The Dawning * Brighter Day
to many a sufferer from liver, kidney and stomach
troubles. For over three-score years and ten they
have been supreme in all cases of biliousness,
headache, indigestion, depression and other com-
plaints which usually arise from constipation.
You should also use HOLLOWAY'S OINT-
MENT, which possesses remarkable healing
virtues in cases of skin affections and sores,
rheumatism, lumbago, sciatica, etc. See to
it that you always have a box and pot handy*
To be obtained from all Chemists, Stores,
* etc.
Manufactured only at
113 SOUTHWARK ST. (late 78 New Oxford St.), LONDON, S.E.
The Pearl Diver.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WILLIAM, the “slushy ” in the third-
class of the Australian liner,
straightened his back, shook drops
0 f sweat from his face into the greasy water
0 f the sink, wiped his hands on the dirty
s wab used for clearing the obstinate grease
off the pearls, and looked with satisfaction
at the enormous number of shining plates
draining on the filthy cloth which, to pre-
vent accidents when the ship rolled, was
spread over the slippery leaden surface at
the side of the sink. His assistant, George,
ar undersized youth of 18, with a face
vacuous and futile, was plainly embarrassed,
for somehow or other he had to “wipe up”
enough of the avalanche to enable William
to deposit more pearls on the counter.
William, with the pride of an artist sur-
veying his own very good work, watched him
for a few seconds; then glanced stealthily
at his immediate superior, the pantryman.
The latter, a in his right hand, for the
edification of the few steerage passengers
who could see him, was dexterously filling
the plates with meat clutched in handfuls
from the steam-heated banbury. In the third
class the passengers were not dainty, and the
pantryman merely held the fork to illustrate
the fact that he knew a fork was the cor-
rect thing, and it insnired confidence among
the passengers.
William, observing the pantryman’s com-
plete absorption in his task, laid hold of an
armful of soup plates, mechanically wiped the
top one and the bottom, and penned them in
the rack. The dinner-plates were promptly
put in the heating press to dry. Having
thus cleared up all arrears, he and his as-
sistant had a momentary spell.
William had been “pearl diving” for many
years. He was a tall, thin, bloodless man
of 40. He had a magnificently domed head
and a fine forehead ; but his features trailed
off in a disappointing diminuendo to a weak,
pimpled, indeterminate chin. The eyes were
of. the palest blue, the nose comically small,
the mouth large, and the underlip thick and
pendant, disclosing irregular and decayed
teeth. He was a notorious liar, a wonderful
drinker, and, according to no less an au-
thority than himself, no woman from Hull
to Yokohama had ever successfully resisted
him. As a “pearl-diver” he was a marvel
of dexterity. His hands inured to it, he
used water, heavily impregnated with soap
and caustic, at almost a boiling temperature.
He revelled in double sittings; the cries of
the stewards for “Dessert!” “Dinner!”
“Soup!” roused him to demoniacal energy.
Scarcely ever was the swab brought into use.
With two plates in either hand William
would raise a miniature storm in the sink,
swearing the while, as pieces of meat and
vegetables rose to the surface indicating
carelessly scraped plates. As the watei b
came greasier, more soft soa PJf a d £
and more shiny pearls came up until at
length William’s hands were pitted like the
face of a victim of smallpox. william
During these temporary lulls William
would advise his worshipping assistant.
“Georee ”he would sav, peail diving is
an art. Vou notice how shiny the plates are
when they come out of the sink:
“Yes,” said George. , „
“Caustic an’ soap an ot water,> , m y h y -
Then, with kind contempt, Diym them is
child’s play.”
“Yes,” said George. , »
“ ’Ot water an’ caustic an soap an
perience is all that does the tuck.
“Yes,” said Leorge. . , .. t
“If I’d not been such a b wimm artist at
the game I’d ’ave been a chief steward be
fore this. Was a stewaid in the
last line for years.” . .
George, having heard that every
two years, merely nodded W illiam, in hm
assistant’s opinion, could be almost any g
he chose. William’s watery blue eyes looked
abstractedly through the window to tt
SaloOll. , +-V»r» ni n
“These bum waiters give me the piP-
Once, on the Castle Line, the chie
came to me—l ’ad four, millionaires at my
table. ‘William,’ lie . said, ‘I want to A
you a favor.’ ‘Certainly, says I. <
you to go and help in the third-class, for the
crowd down there s licked, and y , ,
only man on board worth a damn 1 V
’Well,’ says I, ‘these mdlmnanes are worth
a few quid’—l made £124 19s. id. m
trip, George—‘but they don t eat lk eg
men, so I’ll go.’ The steward shook ands
and said, ‘William, you’re a good chap, ana
I'll not forget.’ ”
like everybedy
lse on the ship, had heard the tale very,
'"Velfi went down, and found things
anyhow. I got to work. The tab
50. George, my boy, by shamrock ng he
Plates in both hands, and P> lin S £. e l up a “
my arm-on the cantilever pnncip Jean
engineer bloke told me—l took 5 me
in my two arms and a steward u ' n
and fed the whole table. They ad seven
stewards, and I reckon I wave d
their work almost alone. M i oon
his hands contemptuously towards the saloon.
“These blokes— why, they’re just bum stew
George knowing what was expected of
him then asked : “Did the chief steward do
anything for you?” ... »
“K *-■
daughters!” BS Wif m?
board. There were four man o , killed
swimming about. I jumped .overboard kdled
the sharks, and saved the gnl- ®
to marry me.” _ ,
“And didn’t you?” George knew quite
well that he didn’t. , T ’ n f P
“No. She was a Jewess, and «
Jews. Don’t ever marry a Jew, ueorge.
“No,” said George. _ oon . t r
“Her old man offered me £25,009, but
refused.”
thought: it was £10,000?” said George,
tzo.uuu. Did you ever ’ear me teliin’
lies, boy?
No, said George. “Why didn’t you take
the money?”
illiam eyed liis assistant sternly.
Does an English sailor accept money for
doin’ his duty?”
George lowered his eyes before the repri-
mand.
"No,” said he.
<( “Then don’t talk nonsense,” said the
pearl-diver,” “and here’s some more
dishes.”
The only circumstance that would effec-
tually stop William’s reminiscences was an-
other avalanche of dirty plates. His mega-
lomania amused the stewards of every class,
and, after dinner, they often came aft to
hear William lie for their edification and his
own glorification. No one had hitherto con-
tradicted his stories of the Castle Line; of
the African millionaires; of the big-game
hunters who lavished on William tips of in-
credible magnitude. He hurled round the
recognised stewards’ jargon with vivacity.
His proficiency, he believed, added to the pro-
bability of his lies. He asked for a “husband
and wife,” declining to say knife; “satin
and silk” for milk; “mother an’ daughter
’ot” for hot water; “you and me” for tea;
“Uncle Ned” for bread ; “Jessie’s dream” for
cream. Then, with hoggish repletion, he
yawned—yawned merely as an excuse for
saying: “As soon as my old lump of lead
hits the weeping willow it’ll be a case of
bo-peep.” William meant that so soon as
his head hit the pillow he’d fall asleep. It
was not one of his masterpieces, for he could
throw off sentences much longer without
containing a grain of sense or meaning ex-
cept to stewards.
After washing up the stewards’ plates,
etc.,-it was William’s custom to take George
to the stern. There he smoked and became
sentimental as he watched the wake of the
vessel. He would tell George of the women
he’d met. George, had he been able to draw,
could have made an exact portrait of the
“boshter at Bilbao,” or the lady at Mar-
seilles, the one woman who had deceived
William ! This one pretended not to know
English, and William wasted a vast amount
of money on her. When his ship was leav-
ing, the lady told William that she came
from the “Old Dart” —from Notting Hill, in
fact, but she was far too wise to let him
know before !
After telling, with unholy joy, of women
in Glasgow, in New York, in ’Frisco, in
Honolulu, in Yokohama, Nagasaki, Hong-
kong, Sydney, William would wind up :
“An’, George, take them warnings from
me. I tell you what to side-step. Women
are no good. Always think of my example,
George, and —your mother.”
“Yes,” said George.
Had William known, Nemesis was wait-
ing at his elbow. One of the first-class stew-
ards —he who cleaned out the wireless room
—had stolen a form and envelope, and they
had faked a message to William.
Nemesis, in the shape of the first-class
steward, bellowed in Wilfiam’s ear:- —
“Wireless for you, William.”
“For me?” asked he, dazedly taking the
envelope.
The steward left, while George watched
William with awe. A wireless added to
William’s stature.
William opened the envelope and dropped
his pipe. With an heroic effort he steadied
his voice and read :
“We require first-class steward. Will
you join Sydney?”
“It’s from the chief steward of the Orient
liner Ororo,” added William shakily. “ ’E’s
’eard of me.”
“Are yer going?” inquired George in awe.
“I don’t like the Orient line,” said Wil-
liam. “I’ll consider it. Go to bed, George.”
“Yes,” said George. “I’m glad, William,
you’re goin’ to somethin’ good.”
“Leave me,” insisted William with a
magnificent gesture. “I want to think.”
“All right,” said George, and went.
For hours William stared at the log line.
His world had come to an end. The Castle
line, the millionaire’s daughter, the plate-
carrying, had been all so real to him. No
one had ever found out that he had never
been a steward, he fancied. If he refused
the position offered, there would at once
arise a suspicion that he never had carried
50 plates. His word would be. doubted.
Then, again, would anyone credit that a
man would refuse a job like that and stick
to “pearl diving”? No! He must. ... His
vacuous eyes were gazing at the back ot a
notice hung on the rails. On the other side
he knew were the words: —
DANGER!
TWIN SCREWS.
KEEP CLEAR OF PROPELLERS.
William shuddered and went U bed miser-
al>To the stewards’ congratulations next day
William gave a stereotyped reply :
“I dunno. I don’t like the Orient line.
His lies stopped suddenly. He found
himself day-dreaming over the malodorous
sink. And ever through his brain ran the
words: “If they ever find out! If they
ever find out!” „ _ ,
At night he got rid of George and sat on
a fender in the stern. Frequently—far too
frequently—he found himself looking at that
notice board. He knew the words were on
the other side, yet how distinctly he could
see them standing out, clearly, insistently,
whitely: “ Danger: Twin Screws. Keep
Clear of Propellers.” , , ,
As he got into the glory-hole he heard
someone say that at noon they were 245
miles from Sydney. They would tie up
there about seven next morning. George
tried to sleep, but the Propellers ground out
with horrible persistence: H —IHGi
EVER—FIND—OUT !”
William put his head under the blanket.
But even there, with fearful distinctness, he
saw: “Danner: Twin Screws. Keep Clear
0/ It V wa1 /r no use. He disliked cold water
and he feared death; but as a discredited
liar be feared life more. Therefore he put on
his boots, slunk along the deck to the stern,
and mechanically tying up the bootlaces he
dropped overboard, exactly in line with the
rudder. . ,
* * *
The purser could not understand the
sudden exodus of the steward’s staff. Even
George, sobbing and broken-hearted, went,
after some hysterical ravings about William
and a wireless and the Orient line. But,
fben George loved William, and without
William life on the vessel was impossible.
O. H. LORD.


1
a
Spent Hundreds of Pounds in Vain.
Mrs. Stratford, who relates
a vivid story of suffering and
how Zam-Buk alone saved her.
More Wonderful Healing
by ZAM-BUK.
NO case is so bad that benefit cannot be derived
from Zam-Buk, which heals in a marvellous
manner. Mrs. M. Stratford, 59 Heytesbury
lload, Subiaco, Perth, W.A., says: “Three years ago,
while living in Brisbane, I was bitten by a mosquito,
and on account of the sting and itchiness, I rubbed
my ’leg briskly. Soon after my leg broke out in a
state of ulcers, which ate their way into holes right
through to the bone. I have had as many as seven
holes in my leg at a time, and the pain and agony
were terrible. The ulcers were in a continual state
of dreadful inflammation, which added to my suffer-
ing For hours I have sat on the edge of the bed
trying to get relief from the burning pains by bath-
ing my leg in cold water, but this did not give any
benefit- I was under numerous doctors, all of whom
failed to give me any relief. Some suggested an
operation. Then I was attended by a trained nurse,
but the poulticing and bathing she adopted only
made things worse.
‘My health broke down under the awful strain, for I got very little sleep at
cure my leg. All the prescriptions, treatments and ointments advised by many
eminent doctors brought no good result. Trom time to time I had to lay up on
account of the agony, and could do no manner of work, or even walk, and at last I
despaired of ever getting well. . . , , , ,
“After reading about Zam-Buk Balm and Zam-Buk Pills, I decided to try this treat-
ment, and procured a supply. I took the pills as directed, and at the same time
dressed the ulcers with Zam-Buk Balm. The pills generally cleansed my system and
purified my blood, while the balm cooled and soothed the burning pain in a miracu-
lous manner. After 30 years* torture, I realised that I had at last got hold of the
right remedy. As I continued applying the balm all bad matter was withdrawn, the
holes commenced to heal up and had a nice healthy appearance. I was soon able to
get about a little in comfort, and enjoy a good night’s rest; the swelling and inflamma-
tion had subsided, and all pain disappeared. I regularly dressed my leg with Zam-Buk
Balm until all the ulcers were healed, the flesh resumed a healthy appearance, and
splendid new healthy skin grown over the once diseased area. The pills made my
blood beautiful and rich, and now I feel in splendid health altogether. I think Zam-
Buk Balm and Zam-Buk Pills are worth their weight in gold, and only regret that 1
did not commence with them earlier. I trust that other sufferers will benefit by my
experience, and try Zam-Buk.” i
EVERY HOME NEEDS ZAM-BUK.
Zam-Buk, the genuine and reliable healing 1 balm and skin cure for everyday household use,
is invaluable for Cuts, Bruises, Burns, Scalds, Soratc'ics, Abrasions. Beils, Eczema. Pimples'
Running Sores, Scalp Diseases, Poisoned Wounds, Festering Sores, Bad Legs, Ulcers, Abscesses
Ringworm. Psoriasis, Diseased Ankles. Teething Sores, Barber’s Rash, Swellings, and all Injured
and diseased conditions of the skin. Zam-Buk is also invaluable as an embrocation for Rheuma-
tism, Sciatica, Stiffness, Sprains, and all deep-seated pains. Zam-Buk is obtainable from all
Chemists and
Stores at 1/6
per pot and 3/6
special large
family size
(containing
nearly four
times the 1/6
pot), or post
free, for same
prices, from
The Zam-Buk
Manufacturing
Co, 39 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
SOOTHES and HEALS
*
Colic, Diarrhoea and Dysentery
Are diseases that require immediate attention. In almost every neighbourhood
someone has died from these diseases before medicine could be procured or a
physician summoned.
Those who rely upon physicians often find that they are away from home when
most needed.
Every family, and especially those who reside in the back blocks, should keep
at hand a bottle of Chamberlain’s Colic & Diarrhoea Remedy.
No physician can prescribe a better medicine for the purpose for which >Us
intended. It is invaluable for both children and adults.
T'
-
Wa
//:
igr
v v* *
“ I Have been a resident of Rockhampton since the year
1866, and of late years have been a sufferer from Indigestion.
To make a long story short I gave myself up as done with this
world when I happened to take up the “ Daily Record,” in
which I read of the cure for my complaint—Chamberlain’s
Tablets. lat once got a bottle and started on them, and
before I had half finished it I felt as if I could eat and enjoy
my food, which I could not do before. You may wonder how
I lived. I used to live on crushed biscuits until I started taking
that wonderful medicine—Chamberlain’s Tablets.”
MRS. M. A. HAWKE. East Street, Rockhampton, Q
The Siren of the Sands.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HER captivating glances! And the
careless words she spoke!
I wondered if she ever guessed how
many hearts sfle broke —
How many men forgot their loves, when
once they held her hands,
Because of Laurel Schroeder, sweetest siren
of the Sands.
I saw them come with hopeful eyes, with
dulled eyes turn away—
The roustabout, with gawkish gait, the
squatter old and grey.
I saw the “cheque-man” spend his all, and
dolefully depart;
His cheque remained with “Piker” —and
Miss Laurel had his heart !
For this was spoken w r ell by those who pon-
dered, and were wise
“God help the man who dares to look too
long in Laurel’s eyes.
God help the man who hears her speak her
hot, sweet words of fire;
For, ever after, he shall be the drudge of her
desire.”
Strong men turned into plastic things ; their
children and their wives
Were merely memories that panged as ether-
muffled knives.
Weak men grew into weaker men. And
over one and all
The love of Laurel Schroeder hung like
some great Desert pall.
Her eyes Gehenna’s embers were ; her teeth
a tiger’s teeth.
Each bared from lips of ruby like a sabre
from its sheath ;
Her neck was as a swan’s neck is; each
cheek a lotus bloom ;
Her hair a web that Venus spun on Beauty’s
scented loom.
Her figure was a symphony—voluptuous and
tall;
The roving men who gazed on it became her
victims all.
And there was incense where she moved,
and perfume in her breath —
But oh! her heart was colder than the
frozen lips of Death.
Her voice betokened chiming bells across
enchanted seas;
Her fingers flashed like snowflakes on the
stained piano keys ;
Her ample bosom rose and fell like zephyr-
lifted waves —
But oh! her love was like the gloom en-
wrapped in lepers’ graves.
I wondered if she ever had a woman’s heart
to break.
A conscience through the long, warm nights
to keep her wide awake.
I wondered did she ever feel a vague, un-
spoken dread
When someone put, for want of her, a bullet
through his head.
But what her inmost secrets w T ere she
shielded with a smile
Behind her veil of mystery, and deeper than
her guile.
Yet she was Love’s lone outpost in the Lorn
and Level Lands—-
Delilah of the Desert! The Siren of the
Sands!
SUNSET LAND.
R. J. CASSIDY.
Te Taipo.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE talk had been of the occult; of
that sixth sense that pierces the veil
of things.
“There was the case of Scotty’s taipo.”
Old Mace was a veteran pioneer of 60
years’ standing, full of the lore of early days
and the record of many happenings.
“It was like this,” he said.
“Scotty, old Poutere and I had drifted out
back of the Watkins. It was a job of un-
derscrubbing a bush block, prior to cutting
out. Poutere did the cooking, when there
was any.
“It had rained for 11 days on end. Rain?
It didn’t come in drops. It spouted down
in solid lines like the jets of a million faucet-
taps let loose.
“It was a God-forsaken hole out there, at
the far end o’ Damn. The nearest township
was 30 miles behind, and Dixon’s survey
stopped short by 10. Beyond that was un-
trodden forest. But there was good money
in it.
“You crossed the river on stepping-stones,
and your gear and victuals followed up, per
packhorse, from Dixon’s line. After that
you lumped them over. Once across, you
took your chance of getting back again. It
might be a week, or it might be a month o’
Sundays. It depended on the river and its
god, to whom Poutere did pooh-jah.
“Our stores w'ere pretty low. The rain
had blocked the coming of the pack-train.
Tracks were impassable, and low-lying lands
a rippling sea. Work had ceased, of course.
The whole forest squelched and oozed like a
soaked mattress.
“We were down to a pound or two of
flour and an ounce or so of tea. Tobacco
and whisky wmre a fond memory. We had
long ago resmoked our pipe-dottles to a grey
ash, and the demijohn refused even a smell.
You fellows, who live with Civilisation, can’t
understand. I’m speaking of 40 years ago —
before the coming of the road, the bridge
and the telegraph wire. We used to spread
our money on the table and laugh at it.
Even the game had been driven to shelter,
and we couldn’t get a solitary crow to stay
our stomachs.
“On the morning of the twelfth day the
rain eased up. Scotty and I stood at the
shanty door. It was a sodden world. The
valley below wms a sea of white mist, and,
out of it, the rocky spur-tops stood up like
the ridged • backbones of antediluvian
monsters. . ,
“ ‘No meat! No whisky ! No ’baccy !
he shouted. ‘Dough-cakes and black tea.
Pah! This damned place is like a desert
island. I'm for Dixon’s after breakfast.’
“The words broke from him in a sort of
angry howl. And it was enough to try the
patience of a saint. I didn’t attempt to put
him off it. . . , .. . ,
“‘Don’t try the back-crossing, lad, if its
over the mark,’ I said. ‘I mistrust this
confounded beck.’
“ ‘Bosh !’ he laughed. ‘l’m all right, you
old Sobersides. I'll start out old Jacobs
with his pack right away.. . . Ta-ta, Fret-
work Face,’ he called to Poutere, whose tat-
too gave him the best-carved physog. you’d
see in a day’s march. ‘lt’ll be smoke-oh and
splice-tlie-mainbrace when I get back.’ And
so he went swinging across the stones.
“It’s a beastly river that Watkins. It
gushes. Sudden, roaring spates. No warm
ing at all, and as quickly gone as come.
Away to the north hangs the great plateau
of Tutamomo, dark with impenetrated forest
and a peat-hag in the middle of it. From
the plateau, through the gorges, comes the
river, an ordinary mountain-stream, waist-
deep, at the bottom of a steep boulder chan-
nel. But the wide scour in the valleys shows
how, when it likes, it can come down a
banker.
“When it likes ! That’s just it. It’s like
no other stream on the face of God’s earth.
You may see it rain heavens-hard for a week,
and that beastly brook will smile and smile
and not swell itself by so much as a billy-
can. Then, when the rain’s all done and
the sun shining, before you can wink the
blamed thing gets up, rattles its stones, and
in sheer cussedness flings down a roaring
wave that rushes through the gullies, over-
spills in the valleys, and picking up men,
cattle and houses, whirls them in a mad
stramash to the sea. Then it draws itself
back among its stones and laughs at you.
Once, during the long rain, it passed in the
night, and we listened to the roar of it, like
near-by surf, above the drumming of rain
on the roof. That morning the stepping-
stones were dry and the river smiled like a
treacherous woman.
“Poutere said it was a god. It sat up in
the mountains and played a game. It used
Tutamomo as a sponge, sopped up all the
water and held it back; then, when the
sponge was full, gave it a squeeze and
laughed to see the water rush down the
channel and break all the little things in the
valleys. Poutere was a blarsted heathen.
He had a queer sort of religion of his own
invention, and was strongly suspected of hav-
ing eaten men not so very long before. Be-
tween you and me., I was a bit afraid of
him. He was uncanny. He saw things.
“The old fool! I came upon him, that
afternoon, in a clump of thick manuka. He
had made a blanky image out of clay, stuck
it on a stump and was waving his arms and
talking to it. I caught the words ‘Cotty,’
‘ ’tepping-’tones,’ ‘atua.’ The sweat hung
to his wisps of grey hair and glinted on his
breast. Oh, he was praying hard right
enough! Praying to a mud god for a white
boy who’d be back, come evening, to make
his life a misery to him with his fun! And
him a heathen !
“All the same, there was a queer clicking
in my throat as I left him at it, and tip-
toed back to the shanty.
“At dusk, I looked at the ford. The
Maoris had driven a stake into the river-
bed. So long as it was uncovered you were
all right, if you were careful. But with the
water even an inch over the stake, you
negotiated the crossing at your own risk. It
was three to one the river would win out
and get you in the end. The mark showed
dry a clear six inches. ‘Pish !’ I said, ‘the
bov’s all right,’ and climbed back up the
hill.
“I’ll swear I did not sleep. I lay listen-
ing for Scotty’s shout on the track and his
stone on the roof. Ten miles to Dixon’s on
the bush track. And such a track! Say,
five to go and five back. That’s ten. Grub
and a talk with Jacob’s girl at the store,,
and, maybe, a kiss at the end of it. That’s
12. Midnight- before he could be back
with the baccy. 'Still, he ought to "be com-
ing now Nothing but the steaming
silence, the ticking of my watch, the drone
of Poutere’s snoring.
“It must have been one o’clock in the
morning. From Poutere’s bunk came a
sound of struggling and thrashing about. I
heard him groan.
“ ‘Ugh ! Ugh ! Ah-h-h ! Go ’way! 00-o-o !
Go ’way, you —back to the ribber! You
’top there. Ugh—whoo-hu-whoo-hu !’
“More struggling and a soft thud. It was
as though someone rocked him by the shoul-
ders and threw him back upon the pillow.
“I was staring into the dark. The door
was barred against the wild dogs. Unless he
had come by the chimney there could be no
one there. What was it?
“Before I could call, It stood at my
bunkside. Nothing could be seen. Only
the knowledge of a i presence beside
me in the night. The air grew dank
and cold. There was the smell of wet flesh
and sodden clothing. I heard the dripping
of water from drenched garments. Drip-
drip-drip ! It pattered on the floorboards in
distinct taps and driblets. A hand came out
of the dark. It stroked my cheek. Soft as
a caress, hut chill as Death. Then the
Something had gone. I was alone.
“There was no candle. We had run out
of lamp-oil many days. I groped for our last
matches, found the hearth, caught up a
handful of kindling scrub and lit a flare.
The door was still barred. The room was as
I had seen it overnight. I looked to where
I had heard the dripping of water. The
boards were dry. Poutere lay, watching
with wide eyes, silently.
“ ‘What was it?’ I whispered.
“ ‘Tat te taipo,’ he answered. ‘ ’Cotty
cross te ’tepping-’tones in te dark an’
swoosh! te ribber get him an’ rush him ober
te fall.’ He made a squeezing motion with
his gnarled old hands. ‘Tat he’s taipo. He
pull me about werry hard. Aie-e-e ! ’Cotty !
’Cotty!’ and he put uo the regular tangi
howl —the keen for the dead.
“The place, the damned weather, the
nightmare, and the want of a comforting
smoke had sent my nerves to rags.
“ ‘Damn you !’ I shouted. ‘Shut up, you
hag-ridden old nigger!’
“It was brutal. The insult was deadly.
But Poutere understood and forgave.
“ ‘All right,’ he answered. ‘You see in te
morning.’
“You bet I kept the flare going. There
was a shuddery feeling in the dark I didn’t
care for.
“Dawn saw us at the ford. The river
was well below the mark. It prattled and
dimoled round its stones. But high on the
bank we saw where it had passed in the
night and left it still wet. Scotty’s slouch
hat whirled in the eddy under the falls, and
we fished it out with a weighted fishing-
line.
“Poutere’s god had wrung his beastly
sponge and wiped poor Scottv off the- slate.”
P. W. O. FAGAN.


WESTINGHOUSE
CHAIN TRANSMISSIONS
3 (MORS S PATENTS)
FOR ALL KINDS OF HIGH-SPEED POWER TRANSMISSION.
130 HORSE-POWER
WESTINQHOUSE CHAIN
TRANSMISSION.
The rocker joint prevents sliding friction at the joint, yields highest
efficiency, and prolongs the life of the chain. Drives of from to
1000 horsepower in satisfactory operation. Full particulars from
ilic Westinghouse Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Queensland Agents—Holmes & Church, Brisbane, 0
New Zealand Agents—Philips & Pike, Wellington, N.Z.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
The Experience of Half a Century
IS EMBODIED IN * '
Englebert’s Lubricating Oils.
Sole Agents-
The Austral Engifteering Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 Clarence St.*
SYDNEY.
■V
If you require a
Simple, Economical,
Reliable and Moder-
ately-priced Car, it
will pay you to
investigate the
METZ 22-h.p.
Frict i o n Drive,
4-cyl,, Water-cooled
Roadster.
£175 Nett.
THE SIMPLE CAR
FOR THE COUNTRY.
Write for Catalogues.
The Famous INDIAN Motor Cycles.
Twin-cyl., 7 h.p., Free Engine Clutch,
Two-Speed Gear.
The Wavcrlcy
THE DOCTOR'S
IDEAL CAR.
British built, 4-cyl,,
12/14 h.p., Bosch
Magneto, Zenith
Car b u retter, 9ft.
Wheel Base,
£330.
So!, A iaILLBROWN g HELLICAR LTD
375 Kent Street,
SYDNEY. [2
-- '
n
•VS-
I fJK
1 wm
S i
:: n
■ ..
~
IMP!
•• M
Write for full particulars to
ECONOMY
TIERING MACHINE.
Lifts all your Goods and Stacks them with ONE MAN.
Economy in Space—Economy in Labor—Economy in Cost.
Parsons Trading Co.,
340 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
E HOP!
A , S v P erb librar y. volume, handsomely printed
a ud bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ’ ’ best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
3 Sets Bell-Metal Reeds,
leather bound-bellows.
Music, as you like it,,
becomes doubly beautiful when played
on the
Melba
-The Accordeon
with
The Silver Tone
The Best Accordeon. Sounds the Best.
Haunting melodies are never so sweet as when
they are played on this instrument. The
Church Organ-Like Tone is Just Perfect!
MELBA now charms many a home—one
would charm Yours—Why not NOW?
The Test Tells The Tale.
Price 21/- post free.
Complete with instruction book.
Other Models 7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6, 27/6, 37/6.
Complete colored illustrated Catalogue Free.
SOLE AGENTS
v.aiaiuguc f ICC.
ALLAN & CO. Pfgp. Ltd., 276-8 Collins St, Melbourne. Bendigo and Geelong
%
<
owm
m s '
1
JLJSr:
<
mm
- 4
v_ ■
TAKE
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
. . . AT . . .
THE BANKING HOUSE, 228 Pitt Street,
Opposite PALACE THEATRE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LENDS AIONEY ON ALL SECURITIES, including Furniture,
FROM 10 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
FRED. McWILLIAM, Manager
PATENT BAND SAW.
SAW MILLERS, JOINERS & CABINET MAKERS,
Why is it a PLEASURE
to work
Kirchner’s Woodworking Machines?
Because they run at a high speed, turn
out clean work, and are easily operated.
Call, write or phone ; it will pay you to get the
MANUFACTURER’S ADVICE.
KIRCHNER & CO.
32 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
PERFECT TIMBER WITH THE
MINIMUM OF HAND LABOR.
Modern conditions demand that high-speed production be
part of a saw-milling plant’s efficiency.
These conditions are met with “Waterous” Mills both cir-
cular and band. We have installed outfits whose daily
running proves this.
They are the mills for the highest-grade work, and can be
depended on for continuous, profitable running.
Write and let our “Waterous” expert from the works in
Canada tell yoit more about their work. He’s had 30 years’
experience on saw-milling problems, and can give advice
worth having.
Telephones—City 427 and Centra/ 1441 .
We Can Quote on Complete or Partial Plants.
T. M. GOOD ALL & CO. LTD.
Universal Machinery Merchants,
303-5 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.


architects specify
Mack Partit
And have a Fire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
an d Vermin-Proof
dividing wall.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and.’inspect'
mack. LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
METALLIC Engine
The only absolutely ALL METALLIC Engine Packing is rnanu-
iactured by The United States Metallic Packing Co., Ltd!, Bradford,
Yorkshire.
ENTIRELY AUTOMATIC ANT) STEAM SETTING.
Decreases the friction and Improves the Vacuum.
Works for years without attention or adjustment.
Quotations on application to Australian Agency :
T. K. STEANES, 37-43 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
DICK’S PATENT
BELTING.
the original and
genuine balata.
tradl
3E3S
MARK
The STRONGEST ami most, EFFICIENT vet produced
livery l>elt, GUARANTEED. As a iruard apfaiiist, inferior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
Importers: James Nartiie & Co.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
THE
I 9
HE
MACHINES
irn LTD E 1
Dalgety’s Machinery Department.
SYDNEY: Miller’s Point. MELBOURNE: a’Beckett St.—and all Branches.
agents for—
“TANGYE” Oil and Benzine Engines, Suction Gas Plants, Steam
Engines, Vertical Boilers, Irrigation Plants and
PUMPS of all descriptions.
“ CLAYTON & SHUTTLEWORTH ”
Portable, Steam and Traction Engines, etc.
“GANE M MILKING MACHINES, with Patent Automatic
Milk Releaser.
“TANGYE”
Portable Oil Engine.
SviHra
“CLAYTON & SHUTTLEWORTH ”
Traction Engine.
45
H. P. GREGORY & CO.
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
74 Clarence Street, Sydney.
AMERICAN High Duty
Lathes.
Tool Room Lathes.
Geared Head Lathes.
Upright Radial & Sensi-
tive Drilling Machines,
Planers, Shapers.
MILWAUKEE Millers.
fC.
ESTIMATES GIVEN FOR COMPLETE
GARAGES OR REPAIR
.-WY-;
389
si«<-
iP |
fe -iiS:
LIGHTING.
For Country Houses, Hotels, Stores, Farms and Townships,
Tb« “PE LAITTE”
air-gas system
is the best.
The Cheapest and Safest Illuminant.
NON-EXPLOSIVE.
Adopted by the N.S.'V. Government and by the Railway
Commissioners of N.S.W. and Victoria. Thousands
already in use in Country Houses, Hospitals and Hotels,
Railway Stations, etc.
Equally suitable for Cooking: and Bath Heating.
Incandescent Burners and Mantles used. Small orLaro-e
Machines supplied. Ordinary gas piping used for dis-
tributing the Gas. More brilliant than Coal Gas.
Cost is one-fifth that of Acetylene Gas.
Full Particulars
obtainable from
McEUEN & CO., 3 Spring Street, Sydney.
NOYES
(Sydney) Limited,
115 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
45 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
(Melbourne) Propy., Ltd.
499-501 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
Commercial Bank Chambers, DITDTH
St. George's Terrace. iE'Klil.
Messrs. STEELE & BAKER,
Bowman Buildings, King William Street, ADELAIDE
Electrical Engineers
and Contractors.
P 'SHEARIMG
The Lister Sheep Shearing M achine—the outcome of most
modern improvements—is your guide to efficient shearing.
The *' e ’s no way to be more certain of durability, economy and
pleased shearers than by installing the Lister.
. The Lister Duplicate parts are of unquestioned superiority,
with satisfaction, and every part is interchangeable
with the Wolseley. Write for Catalogue.
Agents
DAHOAR GEDYE &C?SYDntY
Tv?
Mfl
The “ABBOTT ” Filter.
An Australian Production of tHe Highest Merit.
Proved by Severest
Bacteriological Tests.
AVOID TYPHOID and
HYDATIDS.
Used by Leading
Cordial Manufacturers.
PRICES from n/\l
mrliO-
'-.'.THE ‘ABB O.tT:
Waterbag Filter.
Sole
Manufacturers:
N. GUTHRIDGE fi&
Equitable Buildings, Sydney.
525 Collins St., Melbourne.
