

S THE GENIAL SPIRIT.
R. G. WATKINS &Z> CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
_ . . —FOB—
Mining* ancl Contractors’ Plant, Ejigineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUGIIQNEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in ail parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
IT IS NOT COMPULSORY
but it is wise, if an advance of money is required, to go to
The N.S.W. Mont de Piete D. & I. Co. Ltd.
74 Castlereagh St.. Sydney 74.
386 Oastlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 (Jeorge Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
1-217 Swans ton Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane. _
Money Advanced upon AH Classes of Security at Lowest Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT,
General Manager.
M
Williams’s, liHWhisky
HOBART.
■ —a*?—
fjadleys Orient fjotel.
PIONEE|>
LEATHER BELTING
Guakantrkd
d. C. Ludowici & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
N
\
* Take it back .
1 must have—
HUTTON’S
Fine-Apple Brand
HAMS ®
BACON.
CHUBB’S
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
32 RECIPES
for preparing a variety of the most
. dainty Desserts with
HA N S E N’S
J
L
11
TABLETS
will be forwarded, Post Free to Any
Address, on application to
T. 8., Box 577, G.P.0., Sydney.
Ĥ
are specially construded to ensure Long Service.
THE SILVER I OWN RUBBER CO.,
SYDNEY-MELBOURNE—NEWCASTLE
DF
DRINK
*
LA
K
is the friend of the man in the bush—the man who wants a good, dependable
roofing—a roofing on which the freight is light—a roofing that is easy to lay.
MALTHOID is cool in summer and warm in winter. It is water and weatherproof
all the time. It is the ideal roofing for Mansions and Humpys, Woolsheds and
Bungalows, Warehouses and Fowl=houses.
The Paraffine Paint Co. , Challis House, Sydney-
Ħ
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY LT?
D
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
tm
If you would secure and maintain highest effici-
ency, lowest cost of upkeep, and all-round satisfac-
tion, see that your shearing machinery hears the
name “Moffat-Virtue.”
Catalogue “0.A.” is what you want.' Write for it.
Also, Blackstone Oil Engines, Davey Paxman
Steam Engines and New-Way Benzine Engines.
JKoffat-Virtueßi!
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
352 Kent St. (near King st.), Sydney.
HELIDON SPA
Please choose your “ SPA " carefully .
You may be penalised otherwise .
STARKEYS LTD., Agents,
Phillip St., Sydney, and lied fern
The Bulletin
Vol. 34.—]So. 1/36.
[Thursday, May 22, 1913.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper


advertising as a business force.
By PAUL TERRY CHERINGTON.
A Compilation of Business Records.
■“Professor Cheringfcon’s book is incomparably the best and most authoritative work on the general
Riibiect of advertising that has yet been isSrvd Here at last we have a -book that represents advertising
in the wav its most advanced exponents see it, that illustrates it with instances drawn from the field of
actual occurrences. Theories and principles, in this manner emerge naturally from the concrete eases
adduced and stand out as verdicts; they are not special pleading in advance of the evidence. Nothing
vii c tlda hook has been given to the advertising world before.”— Printer’s Ink.
like tms uu Pric« 7/6, Posted 7/10.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO- PROP., LTD., 23S PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Hudson’s EUMENTHOL Tooth
D
secxjr.es soxjnd
WHITE TEETH.
This Powder is not only an Antiseptic and
Germicide, but cleanses mechanically, owing
to the evolution of free active oxygen when
the powder is in contact with water or the
oral fluids. It is the oxygen which, by neu-
tralising the acid-producing organisms of de-
cay, and dissolving mischievous deposits,
whitens the teeth so wonderfully, and wards
off decay as no other preparation for the
Teeth can or will do. Scientists agree that
a powder is superior to any liquid or paste
for cleansing and preserving the Teeth. The
Committee of the British Dental Association
recommend powder as best for the Teeth.
Sold by all Chemists in our patent stopper metal bottles, handy for
travel or home, price 1/6, forwarded free on receipt of stamps.
Hudson's Eumenthol Chemical Co. Ltd., if York st. f Sydney.
Forwarded Free, our New Book containing valuable information
11 regarding the Teeth.
.HOW TO USE THE POWDEK*
mm
esc
The Red Page
Strindberg
From that groat Swedish reservoir, named
August Strindberg, more water continues to
flow into English literature through the
spillway of translation. A collection of 20
stories of married life, titled Married
(Palmer, per Dymock’s Library), would
make for tfye average, and not too squeamish,
reader an admirable introduction to the mes-
sage of this giant. He has the same com-
mand of the short story as he has of the
drama; but the difference between his drama
and the ordinary English published drama,
giving to the English reader a sense of strain,
is lacking in nis short stories. Here he is
at ease in an art with which we are more
familiar. Shaw’s Getting Married was
a brilliant play of ideas, some of which we
suspect were purloined from Strindberg;
Well’s Marriage was a sincere working-out’
of a modern problem, but that problem was
an isolated and an individual one; his char-
acters were not ordinary persons, nor were
they set in an ordinary environment. Hence
his conclusion could not be accepted as a
text for general use. Strindberg is here
concerned with marriage, not in one, but in
2C aspects: he knows the symptoms of
every modern variety of the disease. While
the psychology of Wells hesitates a little in
fear of hurting, and that of Shaw seems but
an excuse for scintillating paradox, the psy-
chology of Strindberg probes unhesitatingly,
even savagely, deep into vitalities. Yet
these brilliant short stories are not, as
might have been expected, mere vents for his
misognism. The writer was not all bitter-
ness and cynicism. An incurable optimism
often asserts itself; his humor is not
always a thing that stabs. Some of these
stories are delightful, full of fun and pleas-
ant raillery. Thus he concludes his story of
a financially unwise marriage with the
words: —
But how people can get married and bring
up a family when they have not enough for
themselves while they are. bachelors, is a
riddle to me. It almost seems as if babies
brought their food with them when they
came into this world ; it reallv does look as
if they did.
Equally charming is the conclusion of the
story about a husband and wife who were
both getting wages. The wife insists on
continuing her employment as a clerk, in
order that she may retain her feeling that
she is not economically dependent upon her
husband. But babies come, and with them
the end of her long struggle against nature.
She resigns her clerkship.
“I am your slave, now,” she groaned,
when she came home with her discharge.
Nevertheless she is the head of the house,
and he gives her every pennv he earns.
When he wants to buy a cigar he makes a
long speech before he ventures to ask for
the money. She never refuses it to him, but
all the same he finds the asking for it un-
pleasant. He is allowed to attend meetings,
but no dinners, and all botanising with girls
is strictly forbidden. He does not miss it
much, for he prefers playing with his chil-
dren. His colleagues call him henpecked;
but he smiles, and tells them he is happy in
spyte of it, because he has in his wife a very
sweet and sensible companion.
She. on her part, obstinately maintains
that she is nothing but his slave, whatever
he might say to the contrary. It is her one
comfort, poor little woman !
Included in this volume is Strindberg’s
famous one-act drama, Creditors, in which
the “Strindberg woman,” half allurement,
half deviltry, plays with the happiness of
two mep, her husband and her divorced hus-
band. It would be-horrible on the stage.
J*
The Inferno (Rider) is undiluted Strind-
berg. It is a personal narrative of that
painful period he went through when his
brain hovered on the edge of madness —-an
experience from which he almost miracu-
lously recovered, to amaze- —with a tremen-
dous outpouring of novels, stories and
dramas —a world that had reckoned him
dead. •
His four autobiographical works, The Son
of a Servant, The Confessions of a Fool
[already noticed on this pageß Inferno and
Legends, are four segments of an immense
curve tracing his progress from the childish
pietism of his early yqars, through a period
of atheism and rebellion, to the sombre faith
in a “God that punishes” of the sexagen-
arian. In his spiritual wanderings he grazed
the edge of madness, and madmen often see
deeper into things than ordinary folk.
The record opens with Strindberg’s part-
ing with his second wife, “my beautiful jail-
keeper, who watched my soul day and night,
guessed my secret thoughts, marked the
(course of my ideas, and was jealous of my
investigations into the unknown.” He parts
from her with a feeling of wild joy, and with
the inner decision never to see her again.
A play of his had just been produced in
Paris, but now Strindberg hated the theatre.
He returned to his poor student’s room in the
Batin Quarter, and proceeded to experiment
in chemistry. He made one discovery—that
sulphur is not an elementary substance, but
contains carbon, and already feels that he
has “won the immortality grudged to mor-
tals.”
Already he was close to madness; and the
remainder of the book contains the prognosis
of his mental disease. He sees signs and
omens everywhere, buys a Catholic prayer-
book, reads Buddhistic books, believes he
can exercise telepathic influence, investi-
gates and, thinks lie practises witchcraft,
reads the Book of Job, and “arrives at an
ever clearer conviction that the Eternal has
handed me over to Satan to be tried,” be-
lieves that he can make gold, "and gradually
becomes possessed of a firm belief that un-
known human or supernatural, are
persecuting bird. This persecution mania
takes ultimately the form of a conviction
that electric currents are being passed
through his' body every nig;ht. preventing
him from sleeping and reducing him to a state
of pitiable terror. Every new room he occupies
he explores for hidden electric, machines,
finds them in the room just above him, and
triumphantly notes trivial coincidences as
proof of his persecution. He is convinced
there exists a plot td kill him. He finds
evidence in the playing of a piano, the find-
ing of a piece of paper with strange writing
on it, the behavior of friends, the manner
of his neighbors, nightmares, an American
bed, “with its four legs topped by four brass
balls, which look like the conductors of an
electric machine. Add to this an ela’stic
mattress with copper springs, resembling
Ruhmkorff induction coils, and one can easily
imagine my rage at this diabolical coinci-
dence.”
In order to assure myself that nothing is
concealed above me, I mount into the loft
overhead. There is only one object there,
but it drives ine almost to desperation. An
enormous wire-net rolled together stands
immediately over my bed. One could not
wish for a better accumulator. If there is
a thunderstorm, the wire network will at-
tract the lightning, and I shall be lying on
the conductor. But I do not venture to say
a word.... Besides, it is impossible to ask
for another bed, as I might be suspected of
being mad... .Granted that I am suffering
from persecution-mania, but what smith
forges the links of these hellish syllogisms ?
Follows naturally the discovery that he is
in Hell. And in Swedenborg he finds a
fellow-soul.
Hell? But I have been brought up in the
profoundest contempt for the doctrine of
hell, as one consigned to the rubbish-heap of
outworn ideas. And yet I cannot deny the
fact that we are already in Hell. Earth,
earth is Hell —the dungeon appointed by a
superior power, in which I cannot move a
step without injuring the happiness of
others, and in which others cannot remain
happy without hurting me.
His tortures continile. Into the most ab-
surd happening he reads a diabolical mean-
ing. His mother-in-law offers him for
dinner calf’s head with brown butter, think-
ing it is his favorite dish. There is nothing
he dislikes more than calf’s head with
brown butter.
It is too much! Formerly I attributed
these annoyances to feminine malice ; now I
acquit everyone and say, “It is the Devil!”
Worse! His little daughter wants to
accompany him on his morning walks, dur-
ing which he was accustomed to plan out
his day’s work. But he has not the heart
to send her back. “What a penance—to
be loved!”. he cries. “Truly the powers are
not so cruel as we are!”
The next chapters are entitled, “Extracts
from the diary of a damned soul,” “The
Eternal has spoken,” “Hell let loose.”
Let us therefore suffer without hoping for
any real joy in life, for, my brothers, we are
in Hell. And do not let us accuse the Lord,
when we see our little, innocent children
suffer. No one knows why, but Divine jus-
tice gives us a ground for surmising that it
is on account of sins committed by them
before their birth. Let us rejoice in our
torments, as though they were the paying
off Of so many debts, and let us count it a
mercy that we do not know the real reason
why we are punished.
And Strindberg is led back towards
Catholicism; but he never actually entered
the Catholic Church. Surely a strange
Catholicism, this of Strindberg’s!
J*
In the serenity of his 59th year Strindberg
composed his last important work, The Blue
Book. He had hesitated to set to work
because of the greatness of the task: he in-
tended to compress in 365 brief essays, one
for each day in the year, his final conclu-
sions on life. But one day he saw a tram-
car with the number 365 on it, and other
equally impressive portents, including the
British flag, a ladV in a red dress, and a
sign in a chemist s shop; and he says: “It
was natural that all this should make an
impression on me.” The higher powers had
told him to proceed with his 365 apothegms!
This emancipated genius could see more in
a tram-car than most people. And The
Blue Book, whose identity is lost under the
title of the translation, Zones of the Spirit
(Allen, pen Dymock’s Library), is as child-
ish, as superstitious, and occasionally as
silly as the impulse that brought it into
being. Here we find, in his dotage, he can-
not shake himself free from his misogynism ;
many of his old hatreds survive; but he had
become a kind of Swedenborgian Christian.
He apologises for much of The Inferno : he
would be at peace with all men—even with
God —before he dies. But Strindberg in his
dotage is still Strindberg.—in patches. He
speaks of the huge humbug which is called
“youth”:
No one has dared to uumask it, for fear
lest the young might pelt him with stones, or
draw caricatures of him on the avails. The
teachers in the schools crouch before them,
flatter them, pretend to envy them. If any-
one comes who does not flatter these shame-
less and conscienceless little bandits, these
lewd apes who live in the age of innocence,
these parent-murderers- —there is always
some old woman there who exclaims, “Ah!
he does not understand the young!” He
understands them very well, for he has been
young himself. But the young do not under-
stand the old, for they have never been
old
But if one does re-attach himself to Chris-
tianity, one should take it without refining
—stock and barrel, dogmas and miracles.
One should swallow it uncritically, naivelv,
in great gulps, then it goes down like castor-
oil in hot coffee. “Open your mouth and
shut your eyes.” That is the only way. .. .
I am a Christian, i.e., I am a nobleman ;
I belong to the upper class; I have been
vaccinated ; I have served my time in the
army; I am a citizen, and of full age; I
am a white man; I have a clean birth-certifi-
cate : 1 am a superman. ...
All children are, in spite of idle talk,
wonder-children—till they have learnt to
talk. They understand all that we say
even when we hide it from them. They
seem to be thought-readers, divine our most
secret purposes, and rebuke us beforehand..
There are illnesseg in which one loses mem-
ory. May death prove to be such an ill-
ness !. . . .
One of my tasks has been to unmask
gynedlatry, the worship of women in his-
tory and life. Woman-worship is the re-
ligion of the heathen, but it is a religion of
fear,' which has npthing to do with Love.
Lust, hate and fear—those are the compo-
nent parts of it.....
There are several reasons why woman is
depicted as a sphinx by men. She
is incomprehensible, because her soul is
rudimentary, and she thinks with her body,
. . . . Why cannot one guess the riddle of this
sphinxV Because there is no riddle there!
.. . . Nevertheless we take her as a charming
actuality, a delightful child who may pull
three hairs out of our beard ; but if it pulls
the fourth, there is an end to the enchant-
ment. . . .
Strindberg could forgive God and man, but
he could not forgive woman.
Man loves and woman hates; man gives
and woman takes; man sacrifices, and *
woman devours....
I have said that the child is a little crim-
inal, incapable, of self-guidance, but I love
children, all the same. I have said that a
woman is—what she i#, but I have always
loved some woman, and been a father. Who-
ever, therefore, calls me a woman-hater is a
blockhead, a liar, or a noodle. Or all three
together.. . .
As soon as I believe in an Almighty God,
who can suspend the few natural laws which
we know, and bring into operation the count-
less host of laws which .we do not know, I
must believe in miracles....
It is among these degenerate brutes (apes)
that man (?) now does his best to seek his
ancestry. For my part I would rather trace
my origin from a noble horse, or a sagacious
and honest elephant, or from a courageous
and thankful eagle. But it is probable that
apes sprang from degenerate men, escaped
criminals and ship-wrecked Robinson Cru-
soes. The hand of the chimpanzee is not a
paw which is being evolved into a hand, but
a human hand which is degenerating into a
paw.
A strange book, compact of mysticism,
superstition, religion, piety, hatred, jealbusy,
cynicism and optimism—the essential Strind-
berg.
Fiction
Gilbert Cannan lias written a novel of
deliberate, but delightful, dulness. Round
the Corner (Bell, per Dymoek’s Library) is
a prolix narrative of the life and death of a
clergyman, and of the lives of his large
family. That is all. All the members of
this large family merely exist; for them
Life is always “round the corner.” The
theme of this story is that life is merely an
untidy mess, and the world the garbage tin
into which it is hastily stuffed. This kindly,
foolish, muddling clergyman begets a large
family of human beings, “produced quite
legitimately after due notice given,” only to
find that one after another the world re-
jected them, or at any rate refused to pro-
vide the males with worthy work or the
females with husbands. Yet most of them
manage to muddle along somehow. Only
one of the sons, himself a failure as an
artist, discovers that: “A man’s life consists
of only two things, work and love,” and asks
humanity to concentrate on the instinct of
hunger and the instinct of reproduction and
organise for the satisfaction of both. The
surprising thing about this dull catalogue
of the fortunes and ill-fortunes of the par-
son’s large family is that it is extremely
interesting; and one feels at the end that
the people are—what so few people ever
are, even in life —real. Round the Corner
is a noteworthy piece of work.
George A. Birmingham is the liev. J ames
O. Ilaunay, of Westport, county J
Ir “- i lis HPTti 1 <Jold ’ La W* Loll™
and Ihe Search Party revealed this author
who had aiso written The Spirit and Origin
of Christian Monasticmn, and a successf,
comedy, General John Regan, as a JJ
humorist. Birmingham writes of, the vp*i
Irishman, and his village is rather like an
Irish “Selection,” run by a bloke „f Mi„
of Steele O'Rudd. His work is slight but-
humor is inherent in every sentence ’Th
Adventures of Dr. Whitt,, (Methuen) are
sheer delight. How he got the village hand
to play "God Save” by recommending tfij
air to the patriotic Irish band as "The
Battle Song of King Malachi,” how he
stopped a not by ordering the police m
cease from batoning and the mob to cease
from mobbing till he had taken their photo
graphs—all this and much more is told with
genial humor. And as apparently George
A. Birmingham can go on doing this sort of
thing indefinitely we hope he will.
J*
The work of Hugh Walpole shows a steadv
upward trend. His works include three
"Studies in Place,” The Wooden Hone
Maradick at Forty, and Mr. Perrin and Mr
Traill, two “Prologues to The Rising City”'
The Prelude to Adventure and Fortitude
And The Rising City is stated to be in pre-
paration. The Prelude to Adventure (Mills
and Boon, per Dymock’s Library), published
last year, is a remarkable novel. A Cam-
bridge student knocks down a man whom he
hates, and the blow kills him. And in that
moment in the wood, as the murderer stands
above the dead body, he is suddenly con-
vinced that there is a God. Dune, the mur-
derer, is not sorry that he has put out of
the way “a rotter,” but he is seriously
worried about God. He returns to college,
convinced that he will be arrested; but no
evidence is found to connect him with the
crime. Yet the strain of keeping his secret
grows almost past bearing ; again and again
the temptation comes to him to ease his soul
by confession. Slowly evidence "gainst him
accumulates in the hands of the brother of
the girl whom Dune loves. And God keeps
on nagging at him. Ultimately he makes
his confession to a foolish fellow-student,
and this, in turn, leads to his confession to
the brother and the girl he loves. And Dune
goes off to make good his position with God'
by service to the world, before he dare re-
turn tb claim the waiting girl. Thus out-
lined, the novel seems but a slice of sensa-
tional fiction ; but the plot is but a frame
for a subtle and deeply probing psychological
study. The tragic key of the book is mar-
vellously sustained, the characterisation is
brilliant, the style sombrely glowing. There
is one chapter, in which the tortured mur-
derer plays a football match —with an almost
visible God for referee—that is an achieve-
ment in literature.
Hugh Walpole’s Fortitude (Bell, per
Dymock’s Library) is a less brilliant but a
more solid piece of work. “ ’Tisn’t life that
matters. ’Tis the courage you bring to it.”
On this text Walpole preaches a finely con-
vincing sermon. Peter Destcott is a Corn-
ish youth who becomes in time a novelist of
one book. Beaten by a brutal father, and
sent to a dreadful boys’ school, Peter early
learns that the way to get through life with
the least harm is to get your back against a
wall and hit out. The chapters dealing
with the boy’s home and school life are ad-
mirably realistic—Walpole knows the school-
boy and the university man. Peter escapes
from Cornwall to bury himself for years in
a second-hand bookshop in London; and in
a Bloomsbury boarding-house he writes his
successful first novel. He marries the wrong
woman ; his work deteriorates ; his married
life comes to wreck ; his novels fail to sell;
and then the call of Cornwall comes and he
returns to his awful father to carry on the
Westcott tradition of brutality and vice.
He is saved by the right woman, but finds
her dying, and he returns to London to fight
his way back to life and art. Not to happi-
ness : he has learnt that happiness will
wreck his art.
As in his other story the style has a dig-
nity, and the structure of the plot is the'
structure of a living organism,. There are
chapters here that rival in poignancy that
of the remarkable football match, where the
ball was a murderer’s soul and the referee
Was God. These two “preludes” assuredly
herald a great achievement in the forth-
coming The Rising City. But already Hugh
Walpole has secured a definite place in the
small compay of the coming younger novel-
ists.
♦ ’
The first book-shop confined solely to the
selling of poetry has been opened in London.
The poetry shop is situated in Bloomsbury.
Evidently forgetful of the fact that “Den” has
written the Australiblankian Anthem (reprinted on
last Christmas “Red Page”), The Weekly Times
Annual, Flinders-street, Melbourne, is advertising
for a National Australian Anthem, and offers £6
ss. for a set of verses. The conditions, advertised
on the “Red Page’’ of March 15, insist that tne
anthem shall consist of three six-line verses and a
four-line chorus (no line to contain more than eign
syllables). Anthems must be delivered by June 19.


a
THE CARLISLE.
The Carlisle Effective
Broad Stole} of clear Grey
Squirrel Backs} lined Soft
Grey Silk ..A. £9/9/-
Large Pillow to match,
69/6 to £5/5/-
la
S
..ill'.
•• V. ** •
No. 50J>2/1. —SniaC
Knitted Wool Coat
and Skirt Costume,
in Fawn and White or Ore/
and White, fine stripes,
finished Knitted Strappings
to match, and Buttons to
correspond ; Four-p ie c e
Skirt has wide La oped
Seams 63/-
FASHION aod ECONOMY
COMBINE IN
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES.
A
■
4
V.
161G
No. 1616.—Becoming Hat,
in Black Moire, with Velvet Moire Rib-
bon and Large White Mount £3/3/-
No. 1086A. —Small Vel-
vet Hat, smartly trimmed ar-
rangement, with Ribbon 30/-
Postage must be added to Prices quoted.
No. 380.—Coat
and Skirt Cos-
tume, in the New
Bedford Cord; Coat
lined Silk Polonaise;
Two-piece Skirt, i n
Navy, Cinnamon,
Brown, and Petrol
Grey 69/6
524.
No. 524.—Handsome
Sable Fitch Stole, made
of Eight Selected Skins,
finished Heads and Tails, lined
Soft Brown Silk—-
63/-, £5/5/-
Large Pillow Muff to match,
72/6
WINTER
FASHION
BOOK
POST FREE
ON
REQUEST.
i! 1
890.
No. 890.—Useful Felt Hat,
trimmed at back with full Ribbon
Bow 21/-
No. 1352.—S ervice
Semi-Trimmed Felt
with Mount
able
Hat,
14/6
IG3O.
No. 1030.—Smart
Hat of Taffeta Glace,
trimmed Ostrich Feathers
Directoire
lined Velvet,
.. £6/6 A
ANTHONY
HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW
PRICES
REIGN
SUPREME.
5500.
No. 5500. —Fashionable
Sealette Coat, sac back,
sailor, deep revels, buttoning with
crossover effect, sleeves,
gauntlet cuffs, lined throughout.
Lime Green Broche Silk —-
£5/5/-
684.
No. 084. —Tailor-made
Coat and Skirt Cos-
tume, Grey tthipcoid
Suiting, with ' fine, close,
black lines. Coat is lined
through with Grey Silk Pol-
onaise ; Two-piece Skirt, S.W.,
W., and Out Sizes.. 03/-
THE GLOBE.
The Globe, Smart Cravenette
Raincoat, full, loose back, single fronts,
roll co'lar, to be worn open or closed at
neck, Raglan sleeves, fancy cuffs, with strap
to fasten close to wrist, in Fawn, Slate and
v Navy 29/6
A 433.
No. A 433. —Stylish
Coat and Skirt Cos-
tume, of Navy or Black
fine quality Coating Serge;
faultlessly tailored, revers
finished Black Satin, and
Satin Buttons. L i ne d
through with Twill Silk-
ette. \Well-cut, two-piece
Skirt to match. In S.W.,
W., Out Sizes .. 45/-
850.
No. 850. —Stylish Heather
Blanket Tweed Goat, in Fawn,
■Gazelle, sac back, with vent at sides,
round collar, gauntlet cuffs, and deep
revers, forming crossover effect, fasten-
ings , 49/ 6
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
BricKfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


A Better Anvil for
Less Money.
. #li|,titlin’
7
P.'Jv '
•wr
•
SsBr',ls
mafefaaini“ »\ —>
P" v ' *■»
£Rk
• r
m
wm
H l ' u
Buy an “All Steel” Anvil
They are forged from one Solid Piece of
Steel—All One Piece —and the patent hardening
and tempering process makes it impossible for
any part to crack and fall off.
Not like the ordinary two or three piece
“built-up” Anvil, which has horn and tail welded
to the body, to crack and fall any time.
Not like the “built-up” Anvil, the face of
which is laid on separately, and often cracks
and sinks.
Furthermore, the superior “ALL STEEL”
ANVIL will cost you less than the inferior
“built-up” kind.
14 to 281 b.
57 to 871 b.
28 to 561 b.
881 b. to 4cwt.
8(1. lb.
4i£(l. lb.
sd. lb.
32/- cwt.
The Victorian Railways Workshops at Newport
have 7 Tons of “ALL STEEL” ANVILS in use.
Do you want this
Book Post Free?
Not a big one —only 48 pages ; but it’s full of
valuable information about the latest Tools and
Machines for the Blacksmith’s and Coach-
builder’s Shop.
Everything priced—from Anvil Tools to
Power Hammers —from Spoke Pointers to Buzz
Planers —and they’re all High in Quality, but
not in Price. Ask for the Smithy Book from
£^Pfiersort|)
Machinery and Tool Merchants,
554-66 8 582-88 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
A
DON’T LISTEN
to any salesman who boldly tells you he can
offer a Steam Engine equal to the
MARSHALL
n
* js
m
Light and Heavy Pattern Traction
Engines (specially designed to suit
Australian conditions). Oil Tractors
suitable for ploughing, hauling, and
general purpose work, Portables made
with extra large firebox in sizes from
2 to 40-h.p., also Compound Portables,
Vertical and Horizontal Stationary
Engines, Vertical and Colonial Type
Boilers, All Engineers’ Requirements,
Oils, Packing, Fittings.
Illustrated Catalogues Free.
Cash or Liberal Terms.
There is no other “JUST AS GOOD,” so why not make up your mind and secure
“The Latest Up-to-Date Marshall”—
The King of ALL Steam Engines!
EVERYBODY WONDERS
how we can possibly sell “Big Chief” Oil Engines at
SUCH RIDICULOUS* V LOW PRICES!
This is easily explained in TWO WORDS QUALITY AND QUANTITY!
■
m
M
n
The Manufacturers use only the Very Best
Materials. Result —-Engines give absolute
satisfaction. Every Engine sold means
dozens of other orders follow.- The
BIG CHIEF
is fitted with all the most modern improve-
ments, and is so simple that any intelligent
l)ov may learn to operate same in a few
minutes.
No cooling tanks required—the Engine
being hopper cooled, and fitted with
“Wizard” Magneto, Extended Crankshaft,
and all usual accessories.
WRITE FOR PRICES THEY WILL SURPRISE YOU.
Very Easy Terms.
Catalogues Free.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO. LTD.,
161 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
AMOUNT
nIRttIASED J,
• \
sfe U
NATIONAL
OSf^TiV
m
1 1
}
'/
o o
ii
I i
c>a»
Take care of the Pennies so
that the Pounds can take
care of you
You lose money because your system does not show you
where every Penny comes from and where it goes.
It does not tell you how much you
should have! you take what you find and guess
whether it is all your profit.
A National Cash Register will take care of
every penny you take in, and give you a complete record
of every transaction in your shop.
It will pay you to investigate this system at once and
see what it will do for you! Don’t delay.
Our Registers are supplied on very easy terms of payment.
The National Cash Register Co.
of Australasia Ltd.
335 PITT ST., SYDNEY
343 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE
281 MURRAY ST., PERTH
50 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
117 a RUNDLE ST., ADELAIDE
MACQUARIE ST., HOBART
The Inky Way.
Again the persistence of myth. The Sydney
Worker, “an Australian paper for Australian people,”
is apparently with the “great” dailies in the belief
that an 18th century English navigator was the first
European to sight “New Holland.” Anyhow, it prints
a par. beginning “when Mr. Cook claims to be, neces-
sarily, an Australian, because another Cook discov-
ered this continent,” and says nothing to question
Joe’s alleged historical geography.
* * * *
The dreadful superiority of these English! Lon-
don Observer has been talking of the “obvious re-
dundancy” of place-names in general and of Townsville
(Q.) in particular. With a patronising assumption
of superior knowledge, it implored its readers “not
to be hard upon the plucky pioneers, stronger in
brawn and brain than in book-learning, who invented
Townsville.” The prig hadn’t, of course, heard of
Captain Robert Towns, the founder of the place.
Still there are lots of things the Non-Observer
doesn’t know. In the same issue it had a par.
headed “The Australian Premier,” and beginning—-
“Mr. John Scaddan, Premier of Australia.” [Just
here it may be mentioned that a member of The
Bulletin staff once, on the trip from Launceston
to Melbourne, met an English teetotaller. It wasn’t
his fault; if he had known the teetotaller was on
board he might have waited for the next boat. And
the teetotaller lamented that the beautiful strait
should be named after a well-known brand of that
depraved brown fluid —beer. He had never heard of
Bass, the explorer.]
“C. L. Morgan”: “Jack Hardgraft ” i„
Bulletin was wrong in incluZ! v a rec, ’" t
the politicians who had graduated f J e ?J? er , amoil B
lie Sun. Vesper founded and edti th , e Kal Boor
day Times, which was bought SUS '
after his death; but he was n,! Sun P*>ple
the latter paper himself. r COnnecte( ' with
Moa .In justice to the memory of anntk ,
poet, I cannot allow “O.K ’s” claim th°? n dea<i
Crawford Beattie was the father of ™ * , Ge ? IRe
poetry which is paid for by rich JKer*s£L 0 !
and In Memoriam’ headings” (B l/5/’ri'i °\ f ths
than half a century ago, considerably th «' .^, ore
1",?o»th Wales oL U.liSfi* *'£SK“
believe, who was in the habit of dropping intom
Memoriam poetry to the order of bereaved re aUves
Ihe effusions of this gifted person were published Tn
one slim Bvo vol., which I have seen. But I can on v
recall a solitary gem from the collection'
Mistress Jenkins, cease from weeping
Mr. Jenkins you did love,
He is with the angels sleeping,
In the heavens up above.
This was penped long before Beattie entered the same
line of business.
* *
“Digamma”: Herewith, as something of a literarv
curiosity, is William Cullen Bryant’s “Index Ki
Purfatonus,” referred to by “Quarter Single” (B
17/4/ 13). According to tl? N. Y. World Almanac’
when Bryant was editor vi the New York Evenikg
Post, the following list of words, which writers and
reporters on the paper were forbidden to use, was
posted in the editorial room. His son-in-law who
was afterward editor, Parke Godwin, in a letter to
the editor of The World Almanac, several years
ago, said: “Mr. Bryant’s Index grew up gradually
out of the bad habits of reporters, who in their
haste were apt to make use of words and phrases
that were offensive to a nicer taste. He did not
exclude forms of expression that were incorrect or
improper only, but others, that had become almost
nauseating as commonplaces or as slang. lie did
not like to see the vulgarisms of the street intro-
duced into the news:taper, lest they might make their
way into literature” :
Aspirant, authoress, “being” done, built, etc.,
bogus, bagging (for “capturing”), balance (for “re-
mainder”), collided, commenced (for “begun”),
considerable, couple (for “two”), debut, donate and
donation, employe, “Esq..” funeral obsequies (for
“obsequies”), gents (/for “gentlemen”), “Hon.,”
humbug, ignore, ilk, illy, inaugurated (for “begun”),
indorse (for “approve”), initiated (for “begun’ ’), in
our midst, jeopardize, jubilant (for “rejoicing”),
juvenile (for “boy”), lady (for “wife”), lengthy,
loafer, loan or loaned (for “lend” or “lent”), located,
measurably (for “in a measure”), minister (for
“preacher”), obituary (for “death”), ovation, pants
(for pantaloons”), parties (for “persons”), poetess,
portion (for “part”), posted (for “informed”),
predicate, progressing, quite (prefixed to “good,”
“large,” etc.), realized (for “obtained"), reliable
(for “trustworthy”), repudiate (for “reject” or “dis-
own”), retire (for “withdraw”), rOle (for “part”),
roughs, rowdies, states (for “says”), taboo, talented,
tapis, to progress, transpire (for “occur”), the de-
ceased, vicinity (for “neighborhood”), Wall-street
slang generally (“bulls,” “bears,” “long.” “short,”
etc.), would seem (for “is” or “appears.”)
Several of the expressions debarred are now accept-
able newspaper English, but “donate,” “transpire”
and “inaugurated” are still evil things which a gen-
eration of blue-pencilling has failed to remove.
• * * •
Next September another daily newspaper will
blossom in Christchurch (M.L.). That will provide
five dailies for a population of 80,000. They are
whales for newspapers in Maoriland. In a total
white populatioh of a million there are 238 on the
recister. Sixty-five are published daily, 34 tri-
weekly, 26 bi-weekly, 71 weekly, four fortnightly,
one three-weekly, and 37 monthly. Of the cities,
Auckland supports 24, Wellington 22, Christchurch
21 and Dunedin 11.
THE PRUDENT PRESSMAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Pressmen in Peril.—The other day, at the terri-
torial camp, in Otago (M.L.), a pressman, who had
excited resentment by his reports, was ducked. A
Wellington reporter at the Oringi camp published
details of a disturbance among the men, a large num-
ber of whom subsequently organised a hunt for him,
threatening more serious punishment than a ducking.
—News item.
The pressman bold went forth to see
The tame town-soldier shoot;
He sallied forth right fearlessly,
A cannon in each boot.
And, as he went his peaceful way
To battle, I believe,
lie carried, both by night and day,
A slingshot up his sleeve.
The pen is mightier than the gun,
As every pressman knows;
And so he took, for every one
Of these, a brace of those.
The sort of underwear he wore
Is seldom seen on sale
In any haberdasher’s store —
It was a shirt of mail.
He passed along, I understand,
Half-way his fate to meet,
With knuckledusters on each hand,
And hobnails on each feet.
Since he had just insured his life
He hummed a tune, though grim,
Wild scenes of stress and bitter strife
Were then awaiting him.
Armed to the teeth, he went to do
His daily work.... You see,
He recognised his duty to
His wife and family.
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


Great Economies Effected and Efficient Working Assured.
There is a General Electric Co. U.5.A. Motor for every kind of Mining and Industrial Service, and our
staff of Specialist Engineers is available to select and apply the right motor for the particular
purpose required.
Wj
y >
XI
V <.•••••■
'mm
v • • •
C.V.C. DIRECT CURRENT MOTOR.
SIMPLE,
SAFE.
RELIABLE,
INEXPENSIVE.
*
i -'.w l
Am
"i Mr
ag
fa*. E>
m,:
K. r. ALTERNATING CURRENT MOTOR.
Work efficiently under heavy overloads—are easily operated by unskilled workmen—give a steady drive—increase output and reduce
maintenance cost—save valuable space—are readily accessible for cleaning and inspection—are fully protected from mechanical injury.
WRITE FOR BULLETIN 7678.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC CO.,
217 Clarence Street, Sydney ; Corner of Queen (Si Little Collins Streets, Melbourne.
wwt-b v|T • At |\ "l The Best Food to give is
WII6II Weaning Baby The AUenburys MilkFoodNo l.
On the addition of water as directed, it forms an accurately estimated
humanised milk, and may be given alternately with the natural food
without fear of upsetting the child or causing digestive disturbance.
Weaning can therefore proceed gradually with comfort both to mother
and \child. Farinaceous foods should not be given at this time.
“OTenburys Foods
IgV* PAMPHLET ON INFANT FEEDING AND MANAGEMENT FREE
All OM W jl- J| LONDON, ENGLAND, and
Allen & nannurys Liu. market street, Sydney,
“Things done by halves are never
done right.” “Golcryst,” the new aper-
ient made from Epsom Salts, Senna,
Sarsaparilla, Dandelion, Liquorice and
Ginger, “gets to business” thoroughly.
There are no half measures about
“Golcryst.” Yet there is no griping
nor weakening. “Golcryst” has no equal
as a Blood purifying and Rheumatism
curing medicine.
Everywhere 3d., 6d. and Is. sample
posted free by Proprietors,
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO.,
Melbourne.
“THE LONE HAND” for Good Stories and Bright Articles. Price 6d.
CONSUMMATE
EVAPORATIVE CONDENSERS
For Efficiently & Economically Condensing Exhaust Steam.
All condensed steam is recovered for
boiler feed at a high temperature.
Higher Efficiency than Water Cool-
ing Towers and Lower Working
Costs.
Power consumed for circulating
purposes: One-fourteenth that re-
quired by Surface Condenser and
Cooling Towers.
Fuel and Water Charges reduced
30 to 50 per cent.
r—=
Swr' "lst
This Plant supersedes four sets of
Surface Condensers with Cooling
Towers.
Coal Saving: Actually
Effected: 2600 tons the
First Year.
Capacity: 40,0001b5. steam per
hour.
Power consumed for circulating
purposes: 7 8.H.-P.
For all Situations where Water is Scarce
Australian Representatives^
HAES& EGGERS
163 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
"THE, CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
The Most Moderate Priced, Reliable, Real Rifle Made!
S'! EVENS
LITTLE vSCOUT NO. 14i
D
m
m
Đ
lor *22 Short R.F., - 22 Long R.F., and ‘22 Long Rifle R.F. cartridges. Weight,
2Jlb.
Rifled by the famous Stevens method.
STEVENS RIFLES—PISTOLS—TELESCOPES,
Hold more Records for Accuracy than all other males Combined.
Order through your Dealer. Write for latest Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL,
Australian Representative for J. Stevens Arms and Tool Co
Box 86, Q.P.0., Adelaide, South Australia. [4
The PIEPER BAYARD Automatic Pistol
has no equal in its class; the perfect Safety Arrangement also
indicates if the enclosed Hammer is cocked.
«VftP
Made in Calibres
•25, -32 & -380.
A
m
All parts inter-
changeable and
stocked ready
for
replacement.
Write to W. A. Cox, G.P.O. Box 873, Sydney, for Booklet, post free.
Remington-UMC Lesmok .22 Cartridg
Again World Beaters
The Group
(From original
target)
10 Shots at
100 Yards
Make Best Group Ever
Achieved with any
Ammunition
The Ammunition
J. Pepe
of London Eng.
Made by Mr. J. Pepe in competition on Oct. 19,
1912, at Southfields (England) Rifle Club, with
Reminglon-UMC .22 Long Rifle Lesmok Cartridges.
REMINGTON
UMC
apt
Lesmok .22
Cartridges
Authorities pronounce Mr. Pepe’s target the best and most
centrally placed 10-shot group at 100 yards ever made.
Every shot can be touched by an English shilling laid over
the group and the shots average but a quarter of an inch
from the exact center of the bull’s eye.
Mr. Pepe had already fired 9,000 Remington-UMC cart-
ridges from the B. S. A. rifle with which he made this target
—an eloquent testimony to the non-destructive and non-
leading qualities of RemingtonUMC ammunition.
Shoot the Champion-Making Cartridges
Remltigtorj-UMC —a Century’s Experience to
Back Up Your Aim.
Made by the Remington Arms—Union Metallic Cartridge Co.
For Sale by Leading Dealers Everywhere
-THOROUGHLY DEPENDABLE FIREARMS
THAT WILL GIVE LONG AND SATISFACTORY SERVIce"
WONGA
TH
*»-8U56. Our Special “ Wonpra ” Single-barrel Gun. The newest and best gun on the marker p-,
with automatic shell ejector, 12 or 16 gauge, 30in. special steel barrel, choke bored ton Wer F ' tted
works either right or left. Weight, about 6jlb. Price 25/- Packing and polu^ 2/6 f xt^ ,on -j
N<'. BUoO. Winchester Model 1892, half-magazine, repeating rifle, with either‘’Oin or->4in j
octagon barrel Weight, 6£lb. to 71b. Magazine capacity, 7 cartridges for 25“>0 3? 38 and 44
cartridges. Price-Octagon Barrel, 65/- ; Round Barrel, 62 ; 6. Packing 3/. e «r|
Writ® for our Special Gun Catalogue, or
for any Gun or Rifle that you are
asK us to quote
interested i n
THE
VALLEY,
T. C. BEIRNE & CO., Brisbane
Alcock 8 Pierce’s Rifle Lsts.
SHOW every possible grade and calibre in rifles, enabling vou to choose FW'TIV
snbed °t U W A ant ; f Bel * Cti ?« th *“ care has-been taken to those
I!? I *®? to Austr almn requirements. Below we give a selection from our lifle lists
showing some of the cheaper models. “ e ljlsts -
10/6
Stevens’s “Little Scout,” .22 cal., short or long rifle take
German silver sight, weight 2Jib., 10/6.
down. 18 in.
Jund
barrel,
14/6
Winchester Thumb Trigger, 18in. round barrel, all lengths,
V sights, 14/6. 8
.22 ammunition holt action,
15/-
Stev ens, s ‘‘Crack Shot,” .22 cal., 20in. round barrel, case hardened frame/walnut stock,
rubber butt, head front and open rear sights, 15/-
16/6
“A. p .” Mauser model sporting .22 cal., 2Uin. Cockeril] steel barrel, nitro proof, removable
bolt, weight 31b., 16/6; do., model de luxe, extra long (>Bin.) barrel, pistol grip, 27/6.
25/-
Stevens’s “Favorite,” .22 cal., 22in. half octagon barrel, walnut stock, rubber
Rocky Mountain front and sporting rear sights, weight, tjlb., 25/-; do.. .25 cal.. :
Our Riffe Lists (post free if you mention this paper) will give you all
the
information you
ALCOCK & PIERCE,
3188 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE. (1
V
A
B.S.A.
Is your Bicycle built of
GENUINE
B.S.A
FITTINGS?
B
B.S.A.
The public recognition of the high standard of
quality embodied in B.S.A. manufactures has
tempted unscrupulous persons to offer worthless
imitations as genuine B.S.A. Fittings.
It is therefore necessary to caution intending
purchasers of B.S.A. Fittings that none are
genuine unless they bear the Trade Marks —the
three piled rifles or letters B.S.A. —as illustrated,
stamped on each part.
T3AOC kUflO
w
SB®- A -*BJ
as. a.
Remember it is not sufficient to find this mark on one, two,
or more parts. It must appear on EVERY PART specified
below: —
Steering Head, Crank Bracket, Seat Pillar Lug,
Back Fork Ends, Back Fork Bridge, Back Stay
Bridge, Hubs, Cranks and Pedals.
TRADEMARKS
5.5. A.
Catalogues and Full Particulars of all 8.5. A.. Goods can be
obtained from
D. Y. RENNIE, representing
The Birmingham Small Arms Co. Ltd.
4, Australian Buildings, Elizabeth St., MELBOURNE.
TRADEMARKS
B.S.A*
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub. Free "Iw* l
on both gears, Back-pedalling and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop Tyres. As
ridden by FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write lor Prtce List, post tree.
ANTHONY NORP€RN SONS LTP-,
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.


RICH HAIR
LONG HAIR
Would you like this kind?
Rich, heavy hair? Beautiful, lux-
uriant hair? That is perfectly nat-
ural, and we are here to help you.
Ayer's
Hair Vigor
is a great aid to .nature in pro-
ducing just the kind of hair you
desire. Do not be afraid to use
it. No danger of its coloring
your hair. Your doctor can
wisely advise you.
Remember, the hair is only a
part of the whole body. To have
the richest and most beautiful
hair possible, your general health
must be of the best. Then, re-
member again that Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla is a great alterative and a
strong tonic.
Prepared d y DR. <T# C. aTER dr CO..
Dowell. Mass., U.S. A.
I
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS
D
Packed Free. Carriage Paid direct from
our Factory to your Port. Ten Days' Free
Trial. Best British-made MEAD
Coventry Flyers
Defiance Puncture-l<esi sting or Dunlop
Tyres Coasters Variable-Speed Cears.
BS A Free Wheels. Flyer or Brook's
Saddles, etc.
LATEST
£ 3.10 to £9
Tyres and accessories at half usual prices.
Write at once, using sufficient postage, for
Free Art Catalogue and Special
Offer 1 on sample machine.
Agents, wanted.
MEAD
CYCLE COMPANY,
Dept. 280, LIVERPOOL#
AGENT for MEAD
VAL. D. COLE, Book Arcade,
LARGE STOCKS ON HAND.
CYCLES-
Melbourne.
ALL MODELS
EJEGCra
BUY DIRECT
FROM FACTORY.
and we guarantee you a saving of at lea9t
£lO. All goods sent freight free. 12 years’
warranty. A postcard will bring you our
Catalogue. Established 1875.
SANDON & STEEDMAN.
76 Finsbury Pavement. London, England.
Apply for Free Catalogue to Mr. F.
Williams, Post Office, Parramatta, N.S.W.
E SAVE YOU POUND
ELEY
CARTRIDGES
—essential
to good sport.
Good cartridges may
not always suffice to
ensure good sport, but
good sport is out of the
question without them.
ELEY Cartridges do all that the best
cartridges can do in this direction, with a
trustworthiness which has won for them
a measure of success greater probably
than any other cartridges in the world.
Two 'Eley Loaded’ Cartridges:
Eley Acme’
A bright orangeg-inch
deep-shell Cartridge
loaded with Eley
(42-gr.) Smokeless.
Elcy ‘Eloid’
A light maroon Cartridge.
Loaded withEley(33 gr.)
Smokeless. Light recoil;
absolutely waterproof.
The above, and other Eley
Specialities, may be ob-
from all Gunmakers
and A mmunition Dealers.
Elevßro*.,Ld., London
Enj£
1
/
Eg-
m
' /
BONNINGrON’S WILL ANSWER YES
H 053
ißgfijng
... **-S£js*£
Sold Everywhere.
1/6 <a 2/6.
to the question—is it the best ? Yes it is undoubtedly the
best Cough Remedy that skill and purest ingredients can
produce. This preparation has been curing Coughs
and Colds for upwards of 45 years, and although numer-
ous imitations have appeared from time to time none
have stood against “Bonnington’s’' of 40 years fame.
BONNINCTOH’S
Irish Moss.
The ideal family medicine is equally
beneficial for Adults or Children.
Mothers can give it to the little ones
with every confidence as it is entirely
free from harmful narcotics.
Do not take imitations—just ask for “BONNINGTON’S” and
see that you get it.
*5
a©"?!!
'Sim.
-'*■%/rf-
RUNKENNESS Cured.
Any ladv can cure the most violent drunkard —secretly—at home. GOLDEN
SPECIFIC has no odor or taste, and can be taken by the most delicate person
of either sex. It total'y eradicates all craving for stimulants, creating a last-
ing antipathy to alcohol in a few weeks. Many cases are cured in a few days
with this treatment. . . Send 2d. stamp for FREE SAMPLE and full particulars.
THE GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO., DEPT. -4, MARKET STREET, SYDNEY. ~N. S.W.
I
Falliere Flesh-Food Co.
1103 Ash St., Sydney.
A WELL-ROUNDED BOSOM
is the Pride and Joy of all Women. -^#
No woman need remain flat and undeveloped, thin, and
miserable. Your weight can be increased, and bust developed
to normal. It is done for hundreds of others, and can be as
readily done for you. If your bust lacks development and
firmness, and your arms, neck and shoulders are thin and
scrawny, even though your face is pretty, you invariably take
second place to your more fully-developed, full-bosomed asso-
ciates in your own social set. It will always be so unless you
correct the imperfections in your figure. Send a 2d. Stamp
for a Free Sample of Dr. FaJliere’s Flesh-Food, and our free
book which tells how. Flesh-Food is harmless to use. and the
treatment rapidly and permanently develops a poor figure to
noVmal. Thousands endorse it. Full particulars free. (1410)
TORTURING VARICOSE VEINS.
Many old, stubborn cases, even where ulcers of 20 years’ standing were present,
have been cured in a few weeks, the worst cases responding as readily as those only
recently developed. If you are a sufferer you should obtain particulars of this
wonderful remedy.
TtIC l/CT* QF V n/JCTUr) f) of treatment quickly stops the
• nC C _ C _ ,r,C 1 _ K pain and subdues the existing
inflammation. Its continued application eradicates the accumulation that distends
the veins, and restores the valves and walls to their original healthy state. It is
essentially a home treatment, and cures without laying ud or detention from your
ordinary duties, and has been successful in hundreds of cases formerly given up as
hopeless. It is enthusiastically endorsed by hundreds who once suffered.
To sufferers from Varicose Veins the Vecsey Method of treatment comes as a
great boon. Previous to its discovery no painless, permanent palliative was
known. It cures the veins absolutely, so that they do not return.
Send a 2d. stamp or call for free book of full particulars. Consultation and
advice free. We can treat you successfully by post wherever you live.
:
| Mr. G. Vecsey
FREE BOOK.
THE VECSEY VARIX-ARIUM, 3103 Ash Street, Sydney.
(1420)
NEW SEAM SANITARY CAN
FOR FOOD
PRODUCTS.
The Entire Top Open.
Sealed without Heat, Solder or Objectionable Fluxes.
11
11
OUR NEW AUTOMATIC DOUBLE SEAMER will
readily handle over 2000 effds hourly,land may be operated
bv a bov. Our machines aye made for all kinds and sizes
of cans. Will stand both retort and bath processing.
Cheap, more attractive, wholesome and better. Send tor
our Catalogue.
The machine meeting with the greatest success in Aus-
tralia, South Africa and America.
T[ AMS INCLINABLE POWER PRESSES, for stamping
all kinds of metal work. They are not surpassed by any-
thing in the market.
We Furnish Complete Outfits for Making These Cans.
Max Ams Machine Co.
Mt. Vernon, New York, U.S.A.
EUROPEAN AGENCY: C. GUELPA di L., Corso Dante, 41, Torino, Italy.
STOP
SMOKING!
MOST MEN would cure themselves of the
Tobacco habit if they knew they could
do so easily and without discomfort.
It takes but ten minutes for tobacco to
chance the beats of the heart. To keep it up
is to tempt death by Heart Disease, Nervous
Collapse, Tobacco Cancer, and Stomach,
Liver or Kidney Disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless, vege-
table remedy that' will make the user of
tobacco in any form absolutely abandon the
habit for good. It not only destroys the crav-
ing the desire,, the appetite for tobacco, but
restores to health the entire nervous system,
and aids nature in entirely eliminating from
the system the Nicotine Poison.
You Can Try It TREE.
Send 2d. Stamp,? and wewill KtVr
FRFE SAMPLE, also our I REE BOOKLE l
“The Tobacco Habit and Its Consequences.
Mr. Frank Ford (Blackall P. 0., Q’land)
writes- “l mas a heavy smoker for 60 years,
hut after taking your treatment for 11, days I
gave the pipe up for good, and never think of
smoking now.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G, 107 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
P\GES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of Tixe Lone Hand no woman in
city or eountry should miss.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Have you grown tired, of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Never mind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
we give a free Trial
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of *TI. C«!t you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women & children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collin*.«t., Melbourne, Vic.
The'Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries-
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
in use since 1606.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist ior its history—the book is free—or write
8- GREEN. 210. Lambeth Road, Loudou, Eu#,
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Ballad of D.D.E.
Strength, and the beauty shown in strength, these
are the keys to our temple. . . .Characteristics purely
Australian will be developed by us naturally. Energy
is the capacity for labor. It is consistent with all
the robust v.rtues. It is the measure of the fulness
of life: the more energy, the more abundance of it;
no energy at all is death. Energy is the most im-
portant quality for which we must provide—energy,
the basis of living action. —“National Notes,” p. 77.
The world goes by with a valiant tread in
the forthright hours of morn,
And an anthem swings from the railroad-
bed —’tis a blast of primal scorn !
Each wheel-beat sings in a major tone of the
pulsing Years To Be,
When we raise on a Hod Australian throne
our God of Energy !
The swift express with her rolling cars is a
vibrant harp of steel,
That flings its psalm to the paling stars from
shaft and crank and wheel;
Let weaklings prate of an Eden lost —we
are marching thunder-shod.
And the blast of the engine’s fierce exhaust
goes up to the Throne of God ;
The D.D.E. is a Thing alive —a quivering
soul of fire
That speeds at dawn through this human
hive with a chaunt of strong desire!
We “gave her the lot,” and she laughed
again—her throttle was open wide:
“Yea, strength is the key to Australia’s
fane,” she sang in her mighty stride !
More strength ! More strength I —and the
beauty drawn from the effort that
reaches far”—
Her cylinders hymned at the gleaming dawn
as she mocked at the Things That Are !
“ Energy! Energy!—strength sublime!” she
crooned on the topmast grade ;
And the earth-pulse beats to that action-
rhyme as the sunrise splendors fade!
The fireman’s shovel swings swift once
more, and she rolls “all out.” Her tread
Is the tread of a fighting dinosaur with a
vast Cyclopean head !
The road-bed quivers beneath her thrust —
lo! fast in the forward notch
There’s a lever bites through the fine, black
dust to the oily ouadrant-croteh!
Her steam-gauge flutter's from pound to
pound, as she beats with an iron flail —
All the earth is filled with the rhythmic
sound that purrs from the steel-bright
rail!
Who hears the song that her pistons lift? —
wi,th the world and his sleeping wife
In the cars behind, she demands this gift:
Full measure of Fight and Life!
Full measure of strength! Is an engine’s
prayer not heard by the Glassy Sea? —
I can see God stand by His round-house
stair as He listens for D.D.E.!
The cripples have called—they call in vain !
’Tis Energy counts with Him,
When His Deoot receives each human train
by the heavenlv coal piles grim!
It isn’t the cut of your dungarees that mat
ters, but Did You Fight?—•
If you did, all’s well with the D.D.E.’s, and
all of the Lights are white !
Whilst weaklings quaver and failures quit.
God collars the section-staff;
And each fighting soul goes over the Pit
with an engine’s valve-deep laugh!
Does the world go by with a forthright tread
in your valiant hours of morn?
What anthem, swings from your railroad-
bed- —a whine or a blast of scorn?
Whose soul-beat sings in a major tone of the
pulsing Years To Be? — ,
Do you praise on a glad Australian throne
this God of Energy?
For the swift express with her rolling cars
is a vibrant harp of steel —
Have you flung your psalm to the paling
stars as she flings from each crank and
W fl (*,(>], f
Yea the D.D.E.'s send up to God the blast
of each fierce exhaust;
Let weaklings prate !—are you thunder-
shod? Is your Strength Retrieved or
Lost?
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.
A Dream of Life.
A white dream came to me
Ont of the olden sea
When, veiled as a bride.
Young Death walked at my side
Sweet were his lips and fair.
As virgin gold his hair,
His crystal sandals clear
Left no black print of fear.
Through the still night he went,
The winds about him snent
Such fragrance as men knew
Whose first feet walked in dew.
I said : “Oh, balmy Death,
I reck not of scant breath,
Oh, take me. set me free
From Life’s lush mystery.
“Walk with me, let me wear
Thy garments of full air,
Blown on the days along
Like some clear, flowing song.
“The dead, the dead are wise,
They look with wider eyes ;
Untrammeled as the night,
They fear not God’s delight.
“Their larger dreams are spun
Of system, star and sun ;
Above earth’s voices rude
They walk in quietude.”
I went with Death a while ;
And. oh, his still, white smile
Was wonderful to me
Beside the olden sea.
But never word he said ,
A glory roupd his head
Shone as when youngest morn
Vanquished the dark forlorn.
And somewhere far and high
I heard a great voice cry:
“Roll ye the stone away ;
God liveth, it is day!”
N.S.W.
DAVID MCKEE WEIGHT.


SIDEBOARDS
OF QUALITY
While you are investing in
a Sideboard you may as
well invest in a GOOD ONE,
that will REPAY YOU by
giving years of splendid daily
service, and give a refined
air to your dining-room.
This is one of our Hand-
some Designs, in SOLID
OAK. fitted with large, flaw-
less, plate-glass bevelled mir-
ror. It has a canopy top
and neat shelves, while the
base is made with roomy,
open eellarette, three separ-
ate cupboards, and three
well-fitting drawers.
SIZE 4ft. 6in.
PRICE £B/10/=
Call in and inspect our
Sto :k of New Furniture.
Marcus Clark
8 Co. Ltd.,
p
EXPERT HOUSE piipmishfdc -
CENTRAL SQUARE, opp. Railway, SYDNEY
IlttTß BIULSI
I "SIS
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 11s. per day, or apartments
may he secured separately by the day from 3s. 6d. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to Thk Manager.
THE fICCORDEON for Country Residents.
D
We don’t believe any Accordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated
STAR Trombone Accordeon.
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
larjre bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price £l,
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Iteeds, Celeste and Orphan Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Brice £l7s. 6d.
postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical
Instruments. Watches, Jewellery, etc..
210 QUEEN STREET -BRISBANE
THE PERMANENT
TRUSTEE COMPANY
of New
South Wales
Limited
Funds under Administration, Upwards of £3,200,000.
Incorporated 1888 by Special Act of Parliament to act as
Executors, Trustees, Attorneys, Agents, etc.
Cost of Estate Administration Largely Curtailed under this Company’s Method.
AMPLE SECURITY AND EFFICIENT MANAGEMENT ASSURED.
Write for Full Particulars, sent Post Free.
17 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
PINNEFORD'Sj
Magnesia
DINNEFORD’S
important
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tation s purchasers
must see that
“Dinneford &Co.”
is on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Eemedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn. Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Famous BOOMERANG Mouth Organ
Sweet, Strong, Loud, Perfect and Tuneful.
ALBttTS
rfr^PKOFtBSIONAL
BOOMERANG
BOOMERA NU GRAND,’ I ’,large size 6/6, small 3/6
“PROFESSIONAL,” large size 4/-, small size 2/-
“ BOOMERANG.” large size 2/6, small size 1/6.
“ POCKET BOOMERANG,” 1/*, post free.
“ ARCH-BELL BOOMERANG,” with 40 reeds, 2 bells
price 5/6 ; 80 ids., 2 bells, 10 - ; 160 rds., 4 bells, 17/6!
TRADE SUPPLIED.
CAUTION—Mouth Organ Artists
and Learners are respectfully cau-
tioned against unscrupulous Shop-
keepers, who try to “ talk in ” the
customer by offering him inferior
goods, which are only a weak imita-
tion of the “BOOMERANG,” ihe
Monarch »t Mouth Organs. If your
man has fyot a “BOOMERANG”
Mouth Organ—the one you came for
walk srraight out; don't accept
the spprious substitute with the
shopkeeper’s assertion “just as
good,” and get the “BOOMER-
ANG ” from another store.
WNtf
(3)
ALBERT fa SON, 137-9 King Street, Sydney.
THE “TITAN” HOT WATER BAG
GUARANTEED TWO SEASONS. M
A Fire will warm your room all right, but it cannot be
taken to bed. A Hot Water Bag can, and no home should
be without one.
Titan” are made from special heat-resisting
rubber, double strengthened at seams, and fitted with
safety stopper, to allow steam to escape while being filled.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Storekeepers.
Convenient sizes are :
Bags without With sealette cover
_ - „ cover. in fancy patterns.
10 xS .. .. 5/9 6/9
12x8 .. .. 6/6 7/6
14x10 .. .. 9/- 10/6
If unable to obtain locally, post order direct. Postage,
9d. extra.
SOLID RUBBER AIR CUSHIONS.
Invaluable for invalids or others who have to do a lot of
sitting or lying.
Dia. 14in. 16in. 18in. 20in
Round . . 12/6 16/6 20/- 22/6
Square .. 14/6 18/6 22/6 25/-
Postage Paid.
V\\\VvV\V\N>\\VnYN'\'NS \ \ \ wWx'nw
c
titan
HOT WATERS
BAG
TWO SEASONS^
RUBBER C° UP
270 Ceorge St., Sydney; andlos Elizabeth St., Melbourne
ON TNE HOP!
A , s "P erb librai 7 volume, handsomely
and bound; containing upwards of Three hunS
Price.°2ls dnmn «*- FuH Bul ™S
Ď
Is so Easy
A thing may be easy and not
satisfactory and others may be
both and you have never heard of
them, it is about the satisfactory
one we want to talk about in
reference to Floor Polishing.
Shi-Nolcum is so easy
that a child can use it, it gives a
beautiful polish to Linoleums and
Furniture, it is economical and a
great preservative.
c&woQuirn
Beauty’s Favourite
The article which excels all others
in improving the beauty of the sßin
is naturally and deservedly beauty’s
favourite. Xhis has been the
acknowledged and honoured
position held by Pears’ Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and has
maintained that position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by the
possession of those special emollient
properties which soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to the
skin. No other soap possesses
these qualities in such a pre-
eminent decree as
Matchless for tHe Complexion#


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
You 34.—N0. 1736.
THUKSDAY. MAY 22. 1913.
PM „ to
A FISOAL JOKE.
PRIME MINISTER FISHER: “Watch me head it off.”
[Drawn by LIVINGSTONE HOPKINS (“Hop”), The BULLETIN Office, Sydney. When not at the officering up the Salvation Army, and you won't find him.]


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Mac-
leop, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets.
Mosman. for The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co., ( 214
George Street, Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum . . . • • • £1 p 0
Half-yearly . . . • • • 0 lo 6
Quarterly. . . . • • • • 0 i 0
By sending direct lo The Bulletin Office Twenty -
Six Shillings Sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques. Drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
ull Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some
care as to Methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin/’’ is
the proper superscription for “copy." Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there ; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence" col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the form
of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short
Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Australian sub-
jects, and not exceeding two columns in length, or,
say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded with-
out stamps for return it will be understood that the
copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Personal
applications for return of MS. cannot receive atten-
tion. The Bulletin desires, further, those sending
MS. to distinctly understand that it is not respon-
sible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash, of
sufficient merit and interest and adapted for direct
reproduction, or any interesting photograph illus-
trative of a current event, will be paid for same on
acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea, but
unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate drew.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada.- —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
B.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.; S. G.
Ilarlin, )J/5 Granville Street, Vancouver. B.C.
U.S.A. —Childs News Agency, corner Fifth and D
Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Golden Gate News Co., 789
Market Street, San Francisco: Quaker News Co.,
Philadelphia, U.S.A. ; Queen City News Co., Randolph
and Clark Streets. Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt. —Ignace Horn, Port Said. Egypt.
Hong Kong.- —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street, Hong
Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland. Tas-
mania and New Zealand; and on account of Messrs.
Atkinson and Co., and Iligby, Ltd., Adelaide —at
Ji/6 per doz. nett.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size, 6%in.
x Hin.. and gelatine transparencies, will be forwarded
on application. Larger metal plates can be supplied if
desired.
Postage Rates.
Single Copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper):—throughout the Commonwealth, New Zea-
land, Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, 10oz.. id.; United Kingdom. All Sea
Route, 16oz. Id. Only one newspaper should be en-
closed in each packet — otherwise, 8oz. Id., and 8ioz.
to 10oz., 2id.; lOoz. to 12oz. Sd.; elsewhere, ioz. Id.,
and id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, MAY 22, 1913.
THE BLESSINGS OF MANUFACTURES
AND HIGH PROTECTION.
Two matters about which both Federal
political parties try to say as little as pos-
sible are the Northern Territory railway,
which is a massive item in the question of
Defence, and the need for a new tariff,
which is the biggest possible feature in the
problem of industrial expansion and the
growth of population. Both matters are
of greater urgency than even the Referenda,
but it happens that each party is a hash of
Protectionists and Freetraders, and each
party is liable to lose either in the
East or in the Centre and West, whichever
way the -Territory railway goes. So there
is a tendency to stick hard and fast to safe
subjects —matters regarding which one
crowd is solid on one side, and the other
gang is unanimous on the other side.^
The tariff question, however, is so buoy-
ant that all the dead weight of the party
system fails to keep it submerged. Lor
about a dozen years Australia has enjoyed
a certain measure of Protection —scant and
inefficient certainly, but still something to
go on with. The results have been so re-
markable that it is no longer possible to
doubt that manufactures are worth en-
couraging. Thus between 1901 and 1910
the value of the work done in the various
industries by which Australia makes its
bread and cheese is estimated as having
grown in this fashion: —
Value of Australian Production.
1901. 1911. Increase.
Manufacturing ..£27,191,000 £50,931,000 £23,740,000.
Pastoral .. .. 27,150,000 50,725,000 23,575,000
Agricultural .. 23,835,000 38,774,000 14,939,000
dairying (Cow, etc.) 9,740,000 19,107,000 9,307,000
Sundries .. .. 2,772,000 5,728,000 2,956,000
Mining .. .. 22,016,000 23,480,000 1,464,000
It is a good showing for manufactures,
and reveals the possibilities of the business
when it gets only a fraction of the
encouragement that is lavished on other in-
dustries. For the manufacturer, though he
receives some few scraps of aid, has always
been scurvily treated as compared with
many other “captains of industry.” He
pays far higher railway rates on his goocks
than the agriculturist, or the mine-owner,
or even the pastoralist. No Government
land is given to him below cost, with, per-
haps, 30 years in which to pay off. the bill.
The Government doesn’t supply him with
money far below the market rate per
medium of an Agricultural Bank or a State
Land Bank. He is charged much higher
local rates than the bucolic or bullock-rear-
ing person, for all the State grants for the
support of roads go to the country. He is
expected to pay higher wages for shorter
hours than the dairy farmer or wheat
raiser. He has no inexpensive child labor
like the cow cocky. Lie gets no Govern-
ment aid in drought time. And all the
while he is fighting against a foreign com-
petition to which other industrial bosses
are strangers. The wheat-grower, the wool-
raiser, the meat-producer, the gold-miner,
the timber-getter have little real competi-
tion to fear. They are producing things—
in many cases they are not really produc-
ing things but just tearing off the face or
out of the innards of the earth the irre-
placeable capital provided by Nature —
which are in short supply. They have not
to do serious battle with the importer, while
the manufacturer has to fight him all the
time. Incidentally it may be mentioned
that the figures quoted above, good as they
are, fail to do justice to the manufacturer.
The statistics credit him with the value of
his output less the cost of raw material.
The farmer is credited with the value of his
entire output, and the value of his raw
material —seed, manure, etc. —isn’t de-
ducted. The miner is also credited with the
value of his entire output. Yet his raw
material consists of whole towns and cities
—Kalgoorlie, Broken Hill, Charters
Towers, Bendigo, Ballarat, and places of
the sort. Wnen he has used them up great
will be the fall thereof. But even with the
dice loaded against him in these various
ways the manufacturer stands to-day for
the most progressive branch of Australian
industry.
Again, it is worth while to remember that
the manufacturer stands for the only con-
tinuously progressive branch of Australian
industry. In this country’s variable climate
other businesses have dizzy booms and
disastrous falls. But the maker of finished
materials, when he is given anything like a
show against cheap foreign competition,
plods upwards all the time. Thus the value
of the agricultural output of the Common-
wealth reached the top in 1909
(£41,056,000). By 1911, despite all
the struggle to promote land settlement, it
was down to £38,774,000. The value of
the pastoral output of Australia reached
the maximum of £56,993,000 in 1910. In
1911 it was down to £50,725,000. The value
of all mining products fell from’£2B,3ol,ooo
in 1907 to £23,450,000 in 1911. All this
time the value of manufactures kept rising.
Between 1910 and 1911 the product of the
combined “primary industries” of the Com-
monwealth dropped from £142,136,000 to
£137,814,000. a fall of £4,322,000. But
manufactures increased by £5,333,000, and
this saved the situation.
Though the figures show that Australian
manufactures, when they get a very mod-
erate amount of encouragement, increase
faster than any other branch of industry,
and that they grow steadily even while the
much-boomed but exceedingly variable
“primary industries” are in*a state of
slump, the need for higher ITotection is
obvious. The “primary industries” acquired
such a start in the days when people held
that it was Australia’s mission to be a
hewer of corn and a drawer of wool and
bullock-meat for more advanced nations,
that the output of wheat and wool and
butter and cheese and beef and mutton and
things of that sort is vastly ahead of the
local demand, and the producer has to de-
pend largely on the foreign market to keep
him afloat. On the other hand the local
production of clothes, boots, hats, ships,
machinery, paper, ink, furniture, locomo-
tives, steel rails, crockery, glassware, and a
thousand other items is still much behind
the demand, and the community has to de-
pend largely on imports. The business of
paying for these imports is a serious drain
on the “great natural resources” of the
country, when the “great natural’ resources”
strike a bad year. And when a strenuous
war comes, and the command of the sea is
temporarily or permanently lost- —which is
a disaster that happens to every country
one day or another —the shortage of local
manufactures will be just as bad a disaster
as the superabundance of raw products. It
will be impossible to send away the surplus
of raw material for foreign sale. So the
surplus will rot and become a bad debt.
Incidentally, it will give forth a bad smell.
It will be impossible to import boots and
hats and paper and ink and steel rails and
locomotives and crockery and glassware and
ships and sundries to make good the local
shortage, and even if they could be im-
ported it would be impossible to pay for
them through inability to turn into money
the surplus raw products that are giving
off the smell already mentioned. As a nat-
ural result, the country will relapse into
savagery. It is an unpleasant fact that
Australia is even now so far behind in
manufactures that, six weeks or so after
the war starts and the command of the sea
is lost, it will be necessary to treat wounded
soldiers without chloroform, and to saw off
broken limbs with crude carpenters’ instru-
ments. And even the wives and daughters
of the rich will have to be operated on for
appendicitis and such-like complaints with-
out anaesthetics, and probably with carving
knives and other dinner cutlery. The
country that is really strong for defence is
the one that doesn’t owe money abroad, and
that can supply its own requirements at
home when foreign supplies are cut off.
Australia isn’t that kind of country by a
long way. Furthermore, it is never likely to
be that kind of country while it sinks the
fiscal issue, and regards the growing of wool
for sale in Germany as of more importance
than the making, by local industry, of the
essentials of local civilisation. It is on these
grounds that The Bulletin regards an im-
proved tariff as one of the great questions
of the hour. Even the Referenda don’t be-
gin to compare with it.
[James Edmond, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
THE “REASONABLE AMENDMENTS”
THAT ARE NEVER DEFINED.
From time to time, of late —due possibly to
a carking suspicion that the electors are be-
ginning to acquire something like a correct
estimate of the Referenda proposals—Mr.
Joseph Cook and other Liberal leaders have
gone so far as to mention that the Austra-
lian Constitution may not be faultless after
all; and that they are not opposed to what
they call "reasonable amendments” of it.
A Sydney Sun writer, at the finish of a
series of anti-Keferenda articles, which
called upon the populace to turn down every
one of the Government’s proposals, went even
further. Said he, with a very taking air of
super-factional impartiality:—
If these propositions are rejected it will
become immediately the business of both parties
to agree upon amendments giving to the Federal
Parliament such added powers as it may reasonably
ask for.
If the Liberal party should be in a majority in
the next Parliament it will fall into utter national
contempt unless it formulates a scheme of Federal
expansion in the direction just indicated.
This is an eminently discreet attitude in
several ways. Racecourse frequenters
term it “laying off” or “hedging.” Assum-
ing that the Liberals get a working majority
in the next Parliament, they will be com-
pelled (bar accidents) either to remove the
Constitutional anomalies which are blocking
so much urgently-needed legislation at
present, or to face a record spell in
Opposition. And they know it. They
are in much the same disastrous posi-
tion on the Referenda question to-day
as they were on the Defence question in
1909. The present Liberal leader and his
associates somersaulted briskly on their im-
memorial policy of gift Dreadnoughts and
an increased subsidy when faced with the
responsibilities of office in 1910. Obviously
they are now getting the padded carpet and
so forth ready for another gyration of the
sort, on the off-chance that they may regain
the Treasury benches in 1913. The tactical
wisdom of this precaution is unassailable.
There is not a constitutional lawyer outside
party politics who disputes that, in order to
give the Australian Parliament any addi-
tional powers of the least real value, all the
Government proposals, with the possible ex-
ception of the last, will need to be carried.
One of the most obvious proofs of the cor-
rectness of this view is to be found in the
fact that though, during the last couple of
weeks, most of the leading Liberal speakers
and many of the Liberal papers, have
blithered repeatedly about “reasonable
amendments” and the desirability of the same,
not one of them has tabled an alternative
set of questions, or for that matter a single
alternative question, to those submitted by
the Government. It is unlikely that this
arises from a sporting desire to give the
other side a show. Such things do not
happen in politics. The stupidest of Conser-
vatives understands that nothing would
spike the Government’s guns more effectually
than the presentation, by Liberalism, of a
set of proposals for constitutional amend-
ments which would go just far enough to
satisfy nationalists (as distinguished from
Laborites) without in any way perturbing
the State Righters. Proposals of the sort
are not forthcoming for the simple reason
that Liberalism is incapable of performing
impossibilities.
Take the very first of the suggested
amendments ; namely, that which deals with
trade and commerce. Liberalism has gib-
bered more distractedly over this than over
all the rest put together. Joseph Cook and
others have pointed out that, since it will
give the Australian Parliament unrestricted
power over the Commonwealth’s trade and
commerce, the most ruinous and exasperating
things are bound to happen to business men
in the event of its being carried. It has been
prophesied variously that the tiniest details
of the management of the smallest and most
remote shops will be dictated from Melbourne
or Canberra; that every shopkeeper in every
State will need to keep a tame lawyer on the
premises to advise him when he is. or is
not, encroaching on purely Federal
powers; that no one will be able to sell
a bag of fruit or a chop or a pair of boots,
without consulting a herd of Commonwealth
officials; and that, owing to this insane
situation, trade will stagnate and chaos will
supervene. As Carruthers put it in Syd-
ney Telegraph (13/5/’l3) :
The Federal Parliament wants to control your
shoes and stores and interfere with your buying and
selling and trading. The Federal Parliament wants
to take sole charge of every company, large or small,
and regulate its business. Tell them you say NO to
this. Etc., etc.
No Fusion orator has forecasted, so far, that
if the Trade and Commerce Amendment is
carried, every business man will be ordered
by the Federal Parliament to cover his pre-
mises with red and white stripes, and decor-
ate the tame lawyer, aforesaid, with leg-
irons, and perform his daily toil in a full
suit of chain armor. A matter of inadver-
tence, doubtless. These untruths are more
picturesoue and novel than the stock ones
about Parliament interfering fractiously
with inoffensive little shops' and stores, and
they are no less flamingly idiotic.
-»* •*’*
Above everything these arguments about
the likelihood of the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment making a laughing-stock and a
political pariah of itself by meddling un-
necessarily with the details of small busi-
nesses are dishonest. Most of the Liberals
who are now yapping about the need for
“reasonable amendments” know perfectly
well that if their party is ever given a chance
to alter the Constitution in any direction it
will have to start on the Trade and Com-
merce clause. And they know, furthermore,
that it is impossible to frame an effective
amendment in this respect which will be any
less drastic than the one that is proposed by
the present Government. The deletion of the
three words "among the States” will give the
Federal Parliament, so to say, everythin?
So long as these words remain it has leeis
latively speaking, nothing or next to no-
thing. So long as the Australian l’arlia
ment is empowered only to legislate as re-
gards trade and commerce among the States
or, in other words, so long as it is debarred
from legislating within the borders of indi-
vidual States, it will never be able to pass
effective anti-Trust legislation. Here, as in
the United States, the Beef Trust, the Oil
Trust, or any other old Trust will be in v
position to register in those States which are
prepared to house them, and from behind
their borders hurl defiance at the Common-
wealth —just as the Tattersall’s Sweep
people are doing at the present moment. So
long as, to quote VY. H. Irvine, K.C., these
•‘extremely artificial restrictions upon the
trade and commerce power” remain, the Na-
tional Parliament will be unable to pass an
Invalidity and Unemployment Act of the
sort that is now operating in the
United Kingdom; or a satisfactory
Patents Act; or an Act regulating insurance
companies (other than inter-State ones) ; or
an effective Trade-marks Act, or a Seaman’s
Compensation Act that will benefit more than
a small proportion of sailors; and so on.
In fact, so long as the words “among the
States” remain in their present place in the
Constitution, the Commonwealth will con-
tinue to be comparable to a liner whose com-
mander is forbidden to control things aft of
the smoking room; or to a fleet, with an
Admiral-in-Chief who is permitted to give
orders in respect of only those ships which
have three or more funnels. With the re-
moval of the words of limitation, on the
other hand, all the barriers go down. The
Commonwealth Government will have the
same complete sway over the trade and com-
merce of Australia as the N. S. Wales
Government has over the trade and com-
merce of N. S. Wales; or as the British
Government has over the trade and com-
merce of the United Kingdom. How does
Liberalism propose to improve on that posi-
tion? By what means does it intend to give
the Australian Parliament any increased
powers over trade and commerce, without at
the same time handing over to it all those
trade powers which 95 per cent, of Liberals,
for the last three years, have been de-
nouncing as insanelv excessive?
The palpable fact is, that Liberalism has
no alternative amendments to offer. It
couldn’t frame them if it would, and in any
case it has no such desire. In this, as in so
many other campaigns, it is concerned merely
to obstruct; to play the part of the inebriate
who is propelled along from behind with his
heels in the earth, or who, that method of
resistance failing, lies down and blasphemes.
By wild talk about the degradation of con-
scription, the wicked disloyalty of those who
advocated a local fleet; and the foolishness
of defending Australia anywhere but in the
North Sea, this party blocked the Defence
movement for about six years. It will be
satisfied if, by means of similar tactics —that
is tb gay, by prophecies of assaults upon
“State Rights,” and by threats of
senseless interference with well-conducted
businesses on the part of the proprie-
tors’. own Federal representatives—it
can hold up for six, or even three
years, the industrial and social defence
inovement which is involved in the Referenda
proposals. At the last possible moment,
when the people have grown tired of its
perile gags about the horrors of Socialism,
and the miseries of being wronged by Mel-
bourne or Canberra, Liberalism may be re-
lied on to adopt the identical amendments
which are being advocated by most democrats
to-day, and put them .to the country as its
own.' But by may be too late for
the comfort and happiness of many thou-
sands of Australians. Nobody claims that
these amendments represent the last word
in Constitutional reform. This paper,, tor
example, as a paper, aspires after - a
change whereby the States shall hand over
all powers of every description to the Com-
monwealth, and receive back such powers as
the Commonwealth thinks advisable. How-
ever, reforms of that size take time; so,
meanwhile, it is advocating yvhat it regards
as the next best thing. Liberalism admits
the urgencv of “reasonable amendments m
the future.' Tiie Bulletin contends that it
“reasonable amendments” are desirable at
any time, then the amendments proposed
the Australian Government are desirable
now —since at least five-sixths of them re-
present the irreducible minimum in the way
of effective Constitutional alterations. _ «
Parliament can be trusted to admimst
rationally so much as a Dog Act it cap
trusted not to waste its time nationalist g
fruit-barrows and ruining suburban S r( ?cer -
stores. In a manner of speaking, the i cl
issue before the electors on May 31 will •
Can Parliament be trusted to admimste
Dog Act? ,
[John Bede Dalley, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.!
OUR COMPULSORY ARMY.
Great and bitter is the clamor of the _ us
tralian artti-Defence party these cold ay s
and wet nights of early winter. It is <?on
ing a sort of forlorn campaign on its little
own, with a view to the election of a new
Parliament which will disband the in an
army of Australia, and decide either to e
this country slide, or let it be a beggar a
Mother’s gate, clamoring for cheap de en
and eleemosynary protection. It ca *™;® p
its campaign mostly in the correspo ,i ie
columns of the daily press, and v,
fluff of battle has cleared away, and *
situation becomes fairly visible, its p P
arguments appear to be these:U) t . .
is ruinous, disastrous and inhuman,
is solid truth ; and if the other fellow couia
be persuaded of this fact, it would be ‘
good argument and worthy of imc
plause. (2) That the boy soldier is iw
to fall amid bad associations throug t 0
ing with other youths while R |ueii-
“slope arms” and “form fours fj be
like. And if the ultra-refined boy cojjj of
prevented from associating with . n g
his species at school and college, bear i n g
them on trains and steamboats, a an d
them occasionally cuss in the football-
being mixed up with t he “ pf a f t f h 0 e ideal
cricket and other games in f act > , w jth a
boy could be headed up in a- - j n a
Scripture for company, and kep g
cool atmosphere till he . ls , g r° W f n ma ke sure
policeman on perpetual duty to maKe


that no one swore through the bung-hole and
thus corrupted his morals —if all this could
be done there would be some reason in the
complaint that the good boy of the family
shouldn’t be compelled to slope arms in com-
pany with the bad boy of the highways.
And (3) it is alleged that “compulsion” is
tyrannical, shameful, and an outrage on the
inalienable right of every inhabitant of the
British Empire to be “free.” Yet the Brit-
ish citizen isn’t so madly free as a lot of
people profess to believe. He is compelled
to pay rates and taxes. The only country
in Europe that ever had voluntary taxes in
modern days was Poland, and it died soon
after it achieved complete freedom. The
Englishman is forced to hand out his money
for w T ar whether he likes war or not. He
is required to send his son to. school to learn
the rudiments of civil education, which isn’t
widely different from being compelled to
learn the rudiments of military education.
He is called upon to keep his back yard
clean, not to rear or kill pigs inside certain
areas, to wrnlk on the right side of the pave-
ment, and to drive on the left side of the
road. He is arrested if he appears in the
busiest street of a large city in a bathing
costume. And when he is a young citizen
at school he is forced to spend about
two of the best years of his life in
learning that almost every letter of
the insane British alphabet is pro-
nounced in so many different ways that it
would be almost as cheap to have no alpha-
bet at all. No person who is driven at the
whack of the cane to believe, contrary to
reason and conscience, that “c” sounds the
same as “k,” and that “col" in “colonel”
sounds as “kur” (which it really doesn’t,
because the “u” sound in “colonel” doesn’t
appear in the alphabet at all) has a right
to call himself free. He is much more like a
slave. It is a thousand times easier to be-
lieve in transubstantiation than to put
implicit faith in the pronunciation of the
English language. Yet the miserable serf-
kid is driven to school and spanked if he
hasn’t belief in these and a hundred equally
foolish propositions.
The Bulletin seriously and in all ear-
nestness propounds the statement that the
one word “which” is a greater outrage on
the freedom of the subject than anything
that Australia has yet devised or suggested
in the way of compulsory military training.
The small Australian boy is taught the
alphabet. He is instructed that certain let-
ters represent certain sounds. Then he is
confronted with such a word as “which,’
and it doesn’t contain a single sound which
is to be found in the alphabet. It is a com-
pound of three phonetic letters, well known
in Pitman’s shorthand system, but not to
be discovered in any ordinary school book.
A crowd of peace faddists which can put
up with a compulsory school system is
based on lies, beginning with the lie that “c”
is mostly “k,” shouldn’t make too great a
parade of its conscience over such a small
matter as compulsory drill.
In any case the alleged un-Britisli charac-
ter of compulsory military service is a
strange delusion, or a purposeful falsehood.
Most probably it is a purposeful falsehood.
England had, to our knowledge, a policy-
shambling and ill-organised at times, but still
a defined policy—of compulsory military and
naval service for some 2000 years, and pos-
sibly for much longer. It lasted down to the
time of Wellington and Nelson. I lie
kidnapping of men on land for naval pur-
poses was common enough during the
Napoleonic wars. The kidnapping of men
out of ships bailed up at sea was equally
common. When other means failed theie
was a handy device by which the sheriff: or
other official was advised that his county
was expected to provide a certain quota ot
men for military or naval _ business,
and the Government “saved its face
and avoided the outward appearance
of compulsion by not inquiring how the
official found the quota. The leader of the
famous mutiny at the Nore was a compul-
sory defender of his country who, so far as
can be discovered, had been stolen for naval
purposes out of the debtors’ prison m an in-
land Scotch town, where he had been confined
over-a matter of twopence or more. In Ireland
much recruiting was done under a simple
enactment which set forth that any able-
bodied male who was accused of an offence
might be sent to serve the King instead of
being brought to trial. Therefore any J.I.
who wanted his neighbor’s wife or daugh-
ter or best girl, and who found difficulties
in the way, or who wanted to cancel a debt
or get rid of an awkward witness, had the
said neighbor arrested secretly after dark
on a charge of high treason or intoxication,
and the neighbor was far away before morn-
ing on the road to join his blessed Majesty s
forces. » * *
Britain, since it really attempted to adopt
the voluntary service system, has fought a
few border wars, lately by the aid of colored
troops, and it has been involved in the
Crimean scrap and the South African un-
pleasantness. The latter may be summed
up in a few sentences. The two Boer na-
tions didn’t equal the population of Sydney.
They fought the voluntary army of the
proudest nation in Europe for over two
years. They made that proud nation feel
glad to accept all the assistance it could get
from Canada. Australia and Maonland.
And in the end the nation with the voluntary
army paid its microscopic enemy several mil-
lions to make a nominal surrender, and faxed
up terms by which the enemy’s General is now
Prime Minister, not onlyof the
States, but of the old British States as
well But the Crimean war was the first
real test of Britain’s voluntary system, and
the result was poor enough to make any
patriotic Australian desire to put this coun-
try’s anti-Defence faddists in gaol. When
the four allied States got together the odds
against Russia in population were about
three to two; in money probably 12 to one,
and in sea-power almost anything that any-
body liked to mention. In bookmaking
phrase, you might write your own ticket as
regards 'the sea-power. Britain s voluntary
army went to the front in great sty 1 .
had enjoyed many vears of peace. In time
of quietude the loafing barrack life appealed
to many, and enough recruits were available
to Ktp the fore? together,. Tbtoto .was
sent to the Crimea, leaving tibe British
islands nearly destitute of troops. It
fought at Alma and Balaclava and Inker-
mann and very soon after that there was
practically no army left. _ A time. came
when Britain had only 12,000 soldiers in the
field, many of them crippled, and only the
solid masses of its allies prevented the beg-
gared handful from being eaten up. The
new recruits, so badly wanted, refused to
transpire. The voluntary system burst at
the first time of asking. Britain came down
to the idea of inviting its old discharged
veterans to come out from the workhouses
and the slums, and form a few grey-bearded,
bald-headed brigades. It seriously attempted
to hire soldiers in Germany. It had no
share in the last battle of the Crimean war,
and the handful of men whom it contributed
to the last storming expedition was beaten
down by sheer force of numbers. But for
the fact that France possessed a real army
—one large enough to burst through the line
of Russian forts —it seems just possible that
the allies would be outside Sebastopol to this
day.
There is nothing in British experience to
persuade Australia that any voluntary army
it could possibly hope to raise or pay would
make the slightest show in the defence of
this great thinly-peopled country. And yet
the country must be defended, and very much
better-defended than by its present compul-
sory boy army, if the Australian wants to
feel sure that he will be something better in
the future than wood-and-water joey to an
Asiatic invader. The assurance of the anti-
Defence crowd that war is a curse is abso-
lutely solid. Unfortunately it is impossible
to get any adequate assurance that the other
fellow will give up the curse.
fJames Edmond, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Pure Matter of Law.
A Sydney Telegraph writer gave to the
world, the other day, one of those stunning
discoveries which wreck Ministries and be-
smear unscrupulous politicians with the mud
of ignominy and the dust of ridicule. In the
cold, judicial language of the immemorial
lawyer, he pointed out —taking little more
than a column and a quarter of his journal
to do it—that the Chief Electoral Officer of
the Commonwealth is liable to be fined
£234,162,000. His offence consists in pub-
lishing the Referenda pamphlet, at the dic-
tation of W. M. Hughes, without the signa-
tures and addresses of the authors. The
Telegraph man, having tried and sum-
marily convicted the wretched official, con-
tinued remorselessly, as follows :
The inexhaustible resourcefulness of the Attorney-
General, however, will doubtlessly prove equal to
providing some dodge by which the Chief Electoral
Officer may be spared from having to offer himself
up as a vicarious sacrifice for the expiation of other
people’s misdeeds. Unless Mr. Hughes has lost all
his old agility, he will be able to find some way of
dodging the recoil of his illegal dodger. Etc., etc.
Now the writer is in a position to state that
the above surmise is all too true. The un-
speakable Hughes proposes, in the first
place, to take the entire responsibility for
the crime, or whatever it is, on his own
shoulders. This he is enabled to do by a
statute of Carolus I. (see Rex v. Croydon
—Churchwardens of —S. T.R. 713). He will
then proceed to prosecute himself in the
nearest police court; this being essentially
a case where there is sufficient seisin to
maintain quare impedit. He intends to
plead, as a sort of preliminary shuffle, that
while the writs were not issued till April 24
the incriminating pamphlet has been avail-
able to the public since February 12. Is a
newspaper proprietor liable, he will ask,
because unsigned electioneering matter
which he published on April 23 is
sold in Port Darwin on May 1? Having
been bumped out contemptuously on this
point, he will proceed to unloose his second
string. Parliament, he will argue, with that
low cunning for which he is notorious, in
authorising the publication of the cases for
and against the Constitutional changes that
are sought by the Commonwealth, inferen-
tially discharged the printers, and so on, of
the Government pamphlet from the obliga-
tions of the Electoral Act. _ Assuming that
the magistrate is fit for his post, he will
immediately dismiss, with scorn, all thought
of what the late Lord Macnaghten has
pithily termed “fortuitous occurrence from
without” (Fenton v. Thorley). and impose
on Hughes a penalty which, with costs
added, will amount to £234,162,400 10s. 6d.
Hughes will now be seen with his back to
the wall, haggard, desperate —a pitiable
object even to right-thinkers. It is as easy
to foretell the rest as it is to prophesy the
miseries that must follow upon an affirma-
tive answer to the Referenda questions.
His first move will be, in his capacity
of culprit, to hand a cheque for the
amount involved to the representative
of infuriated Law and Order. It
will then be his duty under the Impound-
ing Act (29 Vic.) immediately to demand
back the cheque as the only member of the
Government present ('vide Lacave v. Credit
Lyonnais. 1 Q.B. 148) and pay it into Ins
account 'as Attorney-General. The next
scene in this squalid drama is the dishonor-
ing of the cheque, by Hughes’s bank, on
grounds that are plausibly set out by
Jevons, in his “Money and the Mechanism
of Exchange,” Bagehot (“Lombard-street )
and other authorities. We now have the
enemy in a fair way to being the most stupen-
dous insolvent that the world has ever
known. As Attorney-General he simultane-
ously files a petition in bankruptcy against
himself, and begins a criminal action against
himself for giving worthless cheques. He
also writs himself in the District Court;
gets judgment for the* full amount; garni-
shees his banking account; and puts a
bailiff into his mansion Gore Hill. In
vain. He is still £234.161,000 Is. 6d. to the
bad. As culprit he remains sullenly recalci-
trant. As Attorney-General he begins to
get extremely annoyed with himself. He
asks himself indignantly, once and for all,
is the balance of the fine going to be* paid?
The answer is a distracted “No. 'Momen-
tarily losing his temper, he threatens him-
self with physical violence. Being now on
the verge of a nervous breakdown in both his
'capacities, as a result of worry, fie insti-
tutes suits against himself for barratry,
chamoert.v and maintenance, and multiple-
poinding : and has fiimSelf heavily fined for
loitering, depositing debris in a public place,
and driving a taxi-cab without a license.
Meanwhile Costs are steadily mounting up.
As culprit he has nothing to offer but more
cheques, and these, as Attorney-General, he
firmly refuses to accept—on the excellent au-
thority of Kutner’s “Gerichtliclie Medicin.”
He issues a c a sa order against himself, and
is committed to prison till such time as he
shall have earned enough, in his capacity of
daily journalist, to satisfy the debt. A
cheerless ending to a brilliant career; but
such disasters almost invariably overtake
those who hurry about trying to amend
Constitutions, and in other respects inter-
fere with the established order of things.
[John Bede Dalley, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
The Fall of Wentworth.
Joseph Carruthers, the political parish-
ioner who dropped out of the N. S. Wales
Premiership so suddenly a few years ago,
has been pumping his bitterness against
Australia into the columns of the Sunday
Times (Sydney). One slop:—
Wentworth, Parkes, Dalley, Martin, Robert-
son, Lang, E. S. Hall. .. .won for us [State Frights]
not only our elective Pari aments, but generally
laid down the basis upon which has been reared the
progress and prosperity of our State. .. .there stands
on old Grose Farm our noble University founded by
Wentworth.
Does the education there inculcated teach us that
any people in all the eras of history have ever been
made happier or more prosperous by sacrificing that
form of government under which peace and plenty,
comfort and contentment has been the result, for a
mere shadowy pretence of government, which placed
the governing authority further away from the
hearts and the homes of the people?
The gall of Jokeruthers in leading for-
ward the ghost of Wentworth to back the
anti-Australian fight is wonderful. It was
Wentworth? who, while in London, formed
the “General Association for the Australian
Colonies,” and, on March 3L, 1857, took the
chair at a meeting of the association, at
which a memorial was adopted emphasising
the need of a Federal Assembly, and setting
out that —
It was not to be wondered at that a strong feeling
of d'scontent should be growing up among the in-
habitants of these colonies from their being com-
pelled to resort to such indirect, tedious and illegal
expedients in substitution of that Federal authority
without which their several Constitutions must con-
tinue incomplete as regards all measures and un-
dertakings which require the joint action and co-
operation of any two or more of them.
Wentworth’s hope was that this Assembly
would have power to deal with Australia s
“tariffs, lighthouses, gauges of connecting
railways, navigation of connecting rivers,
telegraphs and postage, the upset or mini-
mum price of land, management of the gold-
fields, coinage, weights and measures, de-
fence, a court of appeal, penal settlements
and any other matter which might he sub-
mitted to it” His expressed prayer was
for “the rapid expansion of Australia into
a nation which should rule supreme in the
Southern world.” William Charles
Wentworth was a Federalist born ahead
of his time, and it is hard metal that, by
the gang that hates Australia and the
national aspirations, he should now be ex-
hibited along with the straw Sosli tiger, the
Frights and other wild myths—especially
when the exhibitor is a parishioner like J.
Carruthers.
[John Barr, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
The Blessings of Peace.
The Anglo-American Peace Centenary cele-
bration, which was widely advertised last
week, is impressive, yet less impressive than
it might be. It suggests the reformation of
the old sinner who has lost his punch, or
the resolution in favor of the simple life
which is passed by the gorged alderman at
the end of the banquet. The British Empire
covers nearly 12,000,000 square miles of the
earth’s surface, and Britain has temporarily
owned and lost a vast amount more. In
olden days, when the Ma country hadn’t
acquired its place in the sun, it fought like
a demon on the smallest provocation against
Frenchmen, Spaniards, Dutchmen, Portu-
guese, Boers, Hindus and miscellaneous
niggers who had desirable allotments that
might be seized.' Now it has got so much
land that it sags at the knees under the
burden of its responsibilities, and it says:
“Let us cease from wars of conquest. Let
there be a profound and beastly calm.” The
United States began by wresting its original
13 States from Britain. It bought up a
great area from France and another from
Russia when these countries were in a tight
place. It bullied the war-worn, distracted
republic of Mexico out of most of its terri-
tory. It beguiled the Texan republic into a
union. It knocked a few islands out of
Spain when Spain was on its uppers, and it
snatched the Kanaka empire of Hawaii
when the fighting race of Kamehameha had
died out, and a silly, fat, brown woman sat
on the throne at Honolulu. Now the
United States, with nearly 4,000,000 square
miles of territory, believes in peace—un-
limited peace —with the proviso that if
there are any robberies to be done in Latin
America it shall be sole robber. Russia,
with nearly 0,000,000 square miles of coun-
try, mostly gained by conquest, reckons that
as soon as it gets a few ports which will be
free of ice all the year round it will also
howl for perpetual tranquillity. In fact, all
the huge States which have robbed whole-
sale believe in brotherhood and arbitration
and so on, in order to prevent any
ambitious new States depriving them
of the plunder. It is a beautiful
arrangement, especially in the case of
the United States, which reserves to itself,
under the Monroe Doctrine, the sole right
of freebooting the lands of Latin America.
And all the small States of the globe applaud
wildly, and wave their tattered hats in the
air, and say that as soon as they have had
their turn at the plunder, and have robbed
their neighbors to their complete satisfac-
tion, and have acquired so much property
that they would be liable to blow up if they
attempted to eat any more, peace wilj be
their chief aspiration also. Just now Turkey
is being carved up, and every little. State
thereabouts reckons that it will be quite sat-
isfied if it can only get as much of Turkey
as it wants, and will abhor strife thereafter.
And Britain, which has already robbed the
Sublime Porte of Egypt and the Soudan and
Cyprus, urges these small hungry nations
to be calm and moderate.
+
The alleged campaign of the Cabbage Gar-
den Ministry against the Referendum pro-
posals was a humorous circumstance. .The
only energetic speaker in the Cabinet,
Watt, had dodged the extra toil by getting
away to the Cold Land. McBride
there also, as Agent-General. Lands McKen-
zie developed congestion of the lungs, and
had to drop the job. Then John Weary
discovered he was much run down in health
(he hasn’t been getting enough sleep, poor
man), and must recuperate at Warrnambool.
Peacock fluttered into the breach —and con-
tracted a chill, which necessitated the can-
cellation of all engagements.. Railways Bill-
son next offered to sacrifice himself ; he wasn’t
much good; still, he was something. But
alas! he had only got as far as Beechworth
when illness overtook him too. There only
remained Graham, who wasn’t taking any
State Frights ; Edgar, who had a tough elec-
tion of his own on his hands; Thomson,
and Fat Landlords Hageltiiorn and J. Dry
Brown, none of whom could draw an audi-
ence of two men and a boy. It looked as if
the negative side in the Referendum scuffle
in the Cabbage Garden would be left to the
Women's National League and a few elocu-
tionists who were doing the cause more harm
than good; so the Age spoke firmly to the
associated Wearies and Invalids, and with
one consent they recovered a.nd got busy on
the job of explaining to Victoria that it
would really be a disaster to shift any power
from such a vigorous Ministry and pass it
on to a poor crowd so lacking in energy as
Fisher and Hughes and Pearce, not to
mention John Forrest and Willy Kelly.
[F. C. Jones, Elgar-road, Burwood, Victoria.]
The incapacity of the present N.S.W. State
Government in the essential matter of finance
is becoming a public disgrace as well as a
public misery. So far as its ability to look
after the cash of the community is concerned
it seems to be partly an infant and partly a
lunatic and partly a nigger. It doesn’t seem
to know any more about how to keep sol-
vent than a mulatto treasurer in Hayti.
During the first 10 months of the present
financial year it had £114,920 more to spend
than it had in the corresponding period of
last year, but unfortunately it rushed up
the expenditure by (£1,701,918. Already,
though the Government had the bivgest in-
come that any N.S.W. Ministry ever saw r or
dreamt of, the outgoings are £1,969,519 ahead
of the receipts. The loan expenditure for
10 months is over £6,600,000. And this is a
Government which is pledged, on the
security of its political conscience—if it
possesses one, which is doubtful —to practise
economy, to reduce loan expenditure, and to
spend no loan money except on works which
will pay full interest on the money bor-
rowed for their construction, and. something
towards a sinking fund. Never in all Aus-
tralian history has there been a Cabinet
which turned dog on its promises more
shamelessly, which got votes under false
pretences more recklessly, and which showed
► a more complete incapacity to realise that it
is a blot on the political landscape.
«
In a pamphlet issued by the Women’s
Fashionable League, which is doing most of
the jackal-ing for the Liberals in Victoria,,
the farmers are told that, if Cook and Co.
are not elected, the Rural Workers’ log will
break the backbone utterly. As a matter of
cold fact, the Rural Workers’ log has nothing
whatever to do With the elections. If the
Labor party were completely wiped out on
May 31, the log would still go to the Arbi'
The Secret Thing.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Voice: Give us your policy.
Mr. Cook: If I gave you my policy you wouldn't
understand it. (Laughter.)
—Report of Joe Cook’s Bendigo Meeting.
Wiiat! Would you ask for the Liberal
policy ?
When did I ever such ignorant folly see?
’Tis inconceivable !
Hardly believable!
What could you know of that mystical thing?
Nay, ’tis enshrouded in sacred obscurity ;
’Twill be revealed in some distant futurity ;
Wait a few years for it;
Then you’ll raise cheers for it,
And all the land with Hosannahs shall ring.
Hist! Lest the populace glean the least
word of it!
Tell them our policy ! Who ever heard of it ?
People, be serious!
Something mysterious
Lurks in the dark at the back of the scenes.
Nothing in modern nor yet ancient history—
Delphian oracle, Asian mystery —
E’er was so mystical,
Signs cabalistical
Have to be learned ere ye know what it
means.
Hush! Let the ignorant never get breath
of it;
One little word would encompass the death
of it.
Guard it religiously !
It is prodigiously
Secret and sacred. Ah, cherish it well!
Let not the tiniest rumor auricular
Get to the crowd on the smallest particular.
Argue persuasively,
Answer evasively,
But our Great Secret we never must tell.
Chut! Have a care! E’en our minions be
mutable!
Give them no hint of our secret inscrutable.
Talk like an oracle;
Words metaphorical
Pour in the ears of the credulous crowd.
Nay, keep it dark, if existence political
Ever you valued —the moment is critical!
Close as a cloister
Be, dumb as an oyster.
The Caucus to baulk us would howl it aloud.
Ssh! Only Joe and a few hold the key to it;
Trust them implicitly; safely they’ll see to
it.
Fondly they’re holding it,
Shaping and moulding it,
Oh, ’twill be marvellous when they are
through !
They will reveal it when Labor is perishing ;
Till then our Holy of Holies they’re cherish-
ing.
Cryptic and wonderful!
Tut! Let no blunderful
Liberal speak, or the day he will rue!
Hist! Not a word! Lest ■ our chrysalis
beautiful
Should be disturbed by a whisper undutiful.
Hush ! Not a syllable !
For it is killable.
Once to reveal it were fatal for sure.
Though it is now in a state somewhat sta-
tical,
Wholly mysterious, quite enigmatical,
In some futurity
Out of obscurity,
Lo, ’twill emerge to us perfect and pure.
[]? J. DENNIS.
Toolangi, Victoria.]


F
Garden
Seeds.
ƑF
NO MONEY WANTED.
T N order to introduce our HIGH-GRADE
TESTED SEEDS into every home, we are
giving away prizes such as MUSICAL IN-
STRUMENTS, SILVER WATCHES AND
CHAINS, CAMERAS, RABBIT RIFLES,
LADIES’ MUFF CHAINS, SOLID GOLD
RINGS, JEWELLERY, etc., FREE to the
value of One Thousand Pounds. All you have
to do is to Send Us Your Name and Address,
and we will forward you 24 assorted packets of
our Reliable Seeds, such as Turnip, Lettuce,
Cabbage, Tomato, Wallflower, Sweet William,
Mignonette, Gaiilardia, eto. Sell the packets at
3d. per packet, send us our money (65.), and
we will send you by return mail any present vou
may select from our grand list. ' WE TRUST
YOU—THE RISK IS OURS. You may return
the seeds if not sold. Don’t delay. SEND AT
ONCE before our offer is withdrawn.
FLORISTS SEED
"l* I 1-J
127 BOND ST SYDNEY
AN EFFECTIVE REMEDY.
Laxo-Tonic Pills are a most effective remedy for
cleansing the blood, thus removing the cause of
pimples, blotches and other blemishes. Price 10id
and Is. 6d. Obtainable everywhere.*
We’re opening another new theatre,
“THE EMPRESS.”
at Prahran, Melbourne,
EMPIRE DAY MAY 24th.
lt is built like the rest of out theatres—only, being our last
it is just a LITTLE more modern.
Yes! Continuous pictures—at popular prices.
Our Theatres:
The Empress, Melba and Britannia,
Melbourne.
Crystal Palace, Lyric, Colonial and Empress-
Sydney.
WILLIAM B. MILLER, Gen’l Manager.
WERE
EVERYBODY
GOES
V ould as nothing had happened.
And if Labor scooped every available seat
in the new Parliament, the log would go to
the Court just the same. The only thing
that could stop it is the repeal of the clauses
in the Arbitration Act giving to Rural
, orkers the benefits of the measure; and
the Fusion wouldn’t for the world admit
that it proposes to do any such thing In
any case, the log of the R.W.U. is not the
final word, but is only the Union’s side of
the case. The other side may bring in a log
saying that ss. per week of 16 hours per
day U ls .. about l .the right thing—rather too
much, if anything—and then the Arbitration
Court would get to work and give an award
on the evidence.
[J. Grills. Wallan, Victoria.]
( harles Gregory Wade begins to see ghosts
everywhere. <)n Monday he announced a
tresh batch in a half-column shriek to the
electors, aimed at the Referenda and the
senate. Here are some items :
It means minority rule. New South Wales will
only have six members when we ought to have 14
in the Senate. The three smaller States, with half
our population, will have three times our votiner-
power.
No, it doesn’t mean minority rule exactly,
lhe small State Senators can do more than
their fair share in blocking “hasty legisla-
tion which the Representatives have
passed, but they can’t pass legislation that
the Reps, disapprove of. And Wade is a
whale for blocking “hasty legislation.” Any-
how, of all politicians he surely can’t object
it Queensland and Tasmania, with sensible,
reliable Liberal” Governments, are given a
certain special advantage in Federal legisla-
tion as against Labor-ridden N.S.W. Again :
The Commonwealth will have a controlling influ-
railways, which we have paid for, and
which are the security we offer for loans for develop-
ment purposes.
It will lead to complete control of the railways,
and the Federal Parliament will then regulate the
policy of railway construction in this State.
Now, when did N.S.W. pay for its rail-
ways? Doesn’t it simply owe for them?
And considering the hash N.S.W. made of
things when it broke the uniform gauge
agreement and started all the diverse
gauges which have been a misery to this
country for 50 years or so, isn’t it time
that some central authority came fflong to
straighten the tangle—likewise to pay off
the railway liabilities which N.S.W. seems
incapable of shifting?
[J. Reid, 179 Bourke-street, Darlinghurst. ]
[James Edmond, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
♦
Since the Walls of Derry and the Flames
ot Smitlifield and the spectre of old Dad
Hamlet on the battlements of Elsinore,
there have been no more remarkable spectres
than those recently dug up for Federal elec-
tion purposes by Cabruthebs, ex-Premier
of N.S.W. Hear them gibber a little:—
Just as surely as six Britishers were punished for
coming here to engage in lawful occupations as
hatters, under the “immigration” powers vested with
the federal Parliament.
Just as surely as a shipwrecked crew were gaoled
under the “aliens” powers vested in the Federal
Parliament.
Just as surely as a woman, a British subject, and
her children born in Australia are being sent out of
Australia under the “aliens” laws of the Common-
wealth.
So surely you may expect that the Federal Parlia-
ment will have its full ounce of flesh under the new
powers which it seeks.
Now, in the first place, no six “Britishers”
were ever “punished” for coming here “to
engage in lawful occupations as hatters.” In
the second place no “shipwrecked crew were
gaoled.” In the third place, no female
British subject and her children born in
Australia” were ever expelled. The Six
Hatters were neither fined, imprisoned,
flogged nor outlawed; in fact, when last
heard of, some of them were canvassing
strenuously in the Labor interest. The
wrecked Petriana niggers were carefully
sent home instead of being gaoled, which is
hardly the sort of treatment a white sailor
gets in many nigger countries. Mrs. Poon
( I9OEY wasn’t a British subject, and her
children, “born in Australia.” weren’t “sent
away. ’ Mrs. Poon voluntarily took the chil-
dren away. These may be small discre-
pancies;—just like the small discrepancy of
a certain French editor, who announced "that
a dragoon had been executed at Paris, and
had to withdraw the charge next day, and
state that it was really a female cook who
had been arrested for theft at Valence—but
it is well to be accurate when the writer
can do it without undue exertion.
[James Edmond. The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
From a London sampler of printed ware :
A book on The Married Life of Queen Victoria ”
by Mrs. Jerrold, just published in London, contains
a lot of new material, and throws fresh light upon
the Prince Consort. He died at a little over 40
and if he had lived longer Mrs. Jerrold believes
™ ould have been a revolution in England
His life was a long attempt to put back the hands
ot the clock, she says. “ There would have been
a struggle between people and the Crown, which
would have ended in the abolition of Monarchy.”
the training of the numerous Royal children is
condemned as “ too priggish and severe.” Hence
... the ready way in which the eldest son (the late
Edward) took \enus as his guide, philosopher
and friend by the time he was 20.” According to
Mrs. Jerrold it was while on a visit to Cambridge
to get the young Prince of Wales out of a scrape
with a girl that the Prince Consort caught the cold
that brought about his death.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Kismet.”
Her Majesty's “The Count of Luxembourg-.”
Criterion “The Fortunp Hunter."
1 alace “On Our Selection.”
Adblphi “The Evil Men Do.”
11V0L1... Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Little Theatre “Fanny’s First Play.'’
National Amphitheatre Brennan's Vaudeville Co.
Alhambra Vaudeville.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric I
Colonial Continuous Pictures.
Empress /
Crystal Palace Continuous Pictures, etc.
Olympia West’s Pictures.
Imperial Roller Rink. Roller Skating.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Sunshine Girl.”
Princess’s “A Message from Mars.”
King’s “Life’s Shop Window.”
Royal “Within the Law.”
Opera House Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
“The Speculators.”
The Auditorium Clara Butt Concerts.
Wests Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia. Spencer's Pictures.
Lyric, Prahran Photo Plays.
Majestic Amalgamated Pictures.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
♦
On Friday evening Oscar Asche and Lily
Brayton will be carried on to the stage of
Sydney Royal for the last time by a number
of perspiring colored gentlemen. On Satur-
day evening “Kismet’'’ supplants the great
Shakesbacon play of “Antony and Cleo-
patra,” and, unless the managerial adver-
tisement lies, it will run on its own bare
teet for one week only. The playchaser will
please note that he is expected to be on the
mark promptly, unless he wants to be left
lamenting at the box office.
* * * Sis
This paper has little to add to the re-
marks which it made last month about “The
Count of Luxembourg.” The music is
charming, but there is not enough of it; the
humor is thin, and there is too much of it.
Why the chief comedian has been suffered
to interpolate _ a couple of flamingly vaude-
villian items into so gracious a setting is
not apparent. They have about as much re-
lation to their environment, artistically
speaking, as a pair of second-hand goloshes
bears to a Worth frock. The topical song
is not merely dull; it is pathetic. However,
m justice to the business capacity of the
people who are responsible for the produc-
tion, it may be mentioned that on Monday
night, when the writer attended at Her
Majesty’s, Sydney, the bulk of the audience
was convulsed with amusement as often as
convulsions were expected of it. Ready, re-
peated and strong convulsions on the part
of an audience are the surest tests of effi-
cient stage-management, after all. “The
Count of Luxembourg” differs chiefly from
its predecessors of the past 10 or 15 years
inasmuch as the hero and heroine (1) ‘waltz
“THE COUNT OF LUXEMBOURG," AT
HER MAJESTY'S,
SYDNEY.
The latest lunacy—waltzing downstairs.
up and down stairs, and (2) are married
with a large picture between them, so ar-
ranged that they cannot see one another’s
taces. In other respects there is a certain
sameness or familiarity about the little mis-
understandings which make up the plot.
The ridiculous old Grand Duke thinks that
the distracting Angele loves and will marry
him. The good and cheery, but deplorably
plain Brissard fears that Juliette does not
care for him. He goes to the Grand Duke’s
reception without an invitation; assumes
various disguises; and is in a chronic state
of nervousness lest he may be flung out as
an impostor. Angele does not know that
the man she loves is the man she has mar-
ried ; the Count is ignorant of the fact that
Angele, whom he worships, is his wife. They
all recover their intellects with a rush in
Act 11., and the show ends. The essential
feature of it is the waltz number which we
have come to associate with Franz Lehar.
Love, can it be Love?” is its name, and it
is as tuneful and sensuous and dreamy and
emotional as anything that has come out of
Vienna. How many hearts have beaten
wildly to that air! How many little hands
have been squeezed ! How manv evening
and other slippers have been stood on with
rurtive affection, for hours at a time, and
mayhap, irretrievably ruined! Millions
probably. But this is no place for
statistics.
Miss Florence Young (Angele) sings as
accurately and as tunefully as of yore, and
the same commendation applies to W Tal-
o-vr,A4ndre\vs; who plays the Count. Miss
oibyi Arundale is her customary entrancing
self, as Juliette. Phil Smith, the J.C W
co. s new comedian, has distinct threaten-
mgs of humor, but he toils too hard, or tries
to do too much, or something. Just as one
can have too much Johnson, so one can have
too much Smith. His Brissard habitually
works overtime, a revolting spectacle to a
community which is seriously thinking of
evolving a Strikers’ Union whose members
will support themselves entirely by drawing
strike pay and giving evidence before Wages
Boards. W. S. Percy, Victor Prince and
Edmund Sherras are their old competent
selves. Louis Victor and Miss Flossie Dick-
enson do « dance in Act I. which should be
popular in chaoel-going circles during the
coming winter; and Miss Vivien Talleur and
Charles Albert do likewise in Act 11.
* * * *
Already the Criterion, where “The For-
tune Hunter” gets the girl as well as the
fortune, has beaten the record rainfall of
Genesis. It has reigned there for 'over 40
nights, and there seems no sign of the
weather clearing.
* #
The headliners at the National Amphi-
theatre this week are Henchey, Vincetti
and Bush, comedy acrobats. Anyhow, they
are billed as comedians, but that is a mild
way of putting it. What the National
wants is a good, strong, boiler-plated puff
writer. Presumably, the National manage-
ment, being on a sound wicket and fearing
no investigation of its show by the general
public, has no need for. a chilled-steel puff
agent. After seeing the programme, this
writer agrees with the management.
[Elizabeth Prig, c/o Mrs. S. Gamp, High Hol-
born, London.]
* * * *
At West’s Sydney house, Manager Geach
is unwinding this week an exclusive film
entitled “Red and White Roses.” It gives
the inside running of a prominent American
politician’s double life, or a life distributed
into two halves, or apportioned as fths and
ith, one portion (probably the |th) being
thrown to his wife and the other portion
being devoted to a beautiful lover. West’s
advertisement writer describes this as “the
sweetest story ever told.” Maybe, but it can’t
last. Leastways, it didn’t last on a cele-
brated occasion in the writer’s experience,
and probably a week of it will be enough
at West’s. But, it’s a good story in the
meantime.
[Adam, Garden of Eden, Sydney. Enter without
knocking and keep off the grass.]
3: * iS sj!
The revival of the old minstrel “first
part” at the Alhambra (Sydney) music-hall
has drawn increased business to that ex-
cino theatre. Fresh vaudeville turns, rang-
ing from ragtime warbling to wire walking
and from juggling to joy-dancing have im-
proved the programme this week. There is
plenty of variety and all the talent isn’t in
the up-town halls.
Be it hereby known that Billanderson,
disher-up-in-chief of bellowdramas, has paid
two months’ rent of the Adelphi and will
take possession on Saturday. His first piece
is “The Evil Men Do,” and The Bulletin
has -jrl! c, ord it: that i 1: doesn’t refer to
the N.S.W. public debt, but is a play based
entirely on the doings of a certain corpse
and a choir boy, the corpse for purposes of
identification being named Harold. William
is bringing his own company, and intends to
otter a change of corpse or other diet everv
fortnight.
** * *
“The Black Princess,” a Paths color
him, was the chief cause of the scarcity of
seating accommodation at the Crystal
ialace this week. The film is well colored
and the story of sufficient interest to make
amends for its length. A few glimpses of
the liawkesbury floods were shown in the
Australian Gazette, and some snaps of
the very moist laying of the foundation
stones ot the Commonwealth Bank in Svd-
ney.
** * *
The chief interest at the Tivoli lies in
the turn of the Bellclair Bros., and it
should continue to be the star item until
Bellclair Senior snaps, or drops B. Junior
on his neck, when the partnership will be
dissolved and the remaining Bellclair will
lie out of work. Meantime it is an aston-
ishing exhibition of strength. Torcat’s
fowls, though they don’t do anything
astounding, afford quite sufficient proof
that, when they try, fowls can do rather
m P?f ,*;han re f us e to supply the communitv
A- G. Spry, though his
will item is clever, will have to forego
""l pape l s b, * ssl "S until he can manage
without the aid of an accomplice in the
audience to give him back-talk. The Four
Quaint Q s provide an acceptable mixture of
nonsense and music served up in a novel
Ir , esent^ also: °’Hana San, Osborn
and Brookes, Tiebor’s Seals and Marini.
** * *
Miss Mary Butler, of M.L., gave a
dramatic recital at St. James’s Hall (Syd-
ney) on Saturday night. She is a highly
capable young woman, skilled in the tech-
nique of her art, and with a wide range of
achievement. In fact, as a ranger she is
almost unique. She ranged last week from
Queen Katherine’s Defence” to “How Girls
I lay Bridge (a monologue), and “Jemima’s
Courtship. She also ranged from “If I
Were King —the romantic play which Syd-
neyites associate hauntingly with the vast-
footed Cuyler Hastings—to “Yes, Papa,” a
mere lightsome sketch. In the former she
deleted Francois Villon, King Louis and
the heroine; in the latter (which, by the
way, was perhaps the best effort of *u
evening) a stage-struck maiden a the
innumerable disguises, and sings T n a] on s
them. Conceive the idea of presenting ?f
character, at brief intervals 1 T™ g A ln
ruthers, Sam McVea, the President r Ca J'
Balmain Ladies’ Liberal Lea cmp* of , th( “
Manly boat deck-hand, and* you a
faint notion of the magnitude of* ““J. 6
Associated with her were Mr ti t lO1 *-
Ilatcliffe and Miss Leila Jeffreys
whom did well. • of
“°P 0 “£ Selection,” \t*the Palace s v a
ney, is still going strong. The recent
have improved the crops on Old DadVnl 118
perty, and the ancient horse has bucked P ,m
and the looks with a friendly eve hi It
the kitchen window to ask Sarah'howYu, •
getting on. Dad's waterhole k full and
low-comedy calf is frivolous, and his *
mud to wallow in, and his hen is drying
tail in the autumn sun and darkly
mg to lay an egg. So naturally the Steelo
Rudd play feels well, and much money!
being taken at the sliprails. ej s
H= * * *
People, who have just left
Adelaide King’s for Sydney, supply a tine
turn, new to Australia. Sonny does aero-
batic feats away up by the proscenium arch
I° P £ f i a Z ' shaped ladder affair which
Mother balances on her feet. Or, liter-, l !
sitting on the back of bis head, he does
good target-practice with bow and arrow
with his feet, or plays the xylophone with
his toes, while Father hops about the staee
on a single pole. Short plays are a marked
feature at this house, as at the Tivoli where
George Bryant’s Co. and Welch and Oar-
basse are responsible. The Tivoli is
strong in athletic turns—the Kremkas and
the De Marios—but De Biere, with his tied
thumbs, quaint talk, and finely-staged illu-
sions, remains the big draw. The one-drama
picture show has arrived at last. West’s mu
up the whole two miles of “Les
one afternoon, and it went so well that it
was given an evening also. Wondergraph
relies mainly on an Indian massacre of
U.S. cavalry Heinicke’s Orchestra has
again filled the Exhibition on a Saturday
night, and at the Royal is a wild melo-
drama, ‘‘What Women Will Do For Love”
with a fine colliery explosion. Not that
they will do that for love, though they
would do it fast enough for Votes.
“Within the Law,” introduced to Aus-
tralia, at Melbourne Royal, as aforesung, is
a kinematographic kind of erimodrama of
WITHIN THE LAW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Amurkan erimodrama, so the management affirms,
To be properly translated needs a key to “crooky”
terms ;
Then here are some selections that enable one to
draw
True criminal conclusions from the play “Within
the Law.”
If a burglar, or a 'bezzler, or a crook of common
clay
Does a guy (which means to clear out) —well, he
“makes a get away.”
But if the traps arrest him, and to quod, or prison
fetch
The fugitive from justice, he is sentenced to a
“stretch.”
A “dip” is a pickpocket; should he chance to pick
a purse
He is said to “lift a leather,” and he mutters “Good-
night, nurse,”
When he’s taken to a “cooler,” there in solitude to
dwell,
For a “cooler,” in the lingo, means a little dungeon
cell.
A “bull” is a policeman, and a giddy girl’s a
“frail” ;
If she shakes his “piece of change,” the lady “cops
the copper’s kale” ;
And if the cop intimidates the frail he wants to
snare,
She doesn’t say he frightened her, she says he
“threw a scare.”
A damsel young and innocent, not yet upon the joh,
Has “nothing on” her character—in fact, she is a
“squab” ;
Whereas a “stiff’s” a fathead, and a “pigeon on a
stool”
Is a fizgig by whose “frame-up” pals are put away
to cool.
To “blow the joint” means vanish from the shady
haunts of crime;
A whisky mixed with soda is a “highball” all the
time. *
And if a boob when inky talks a lot of silly guff,
You tap him on the gab, and bid the josser “can the
stuff.”
If a footpad wants your ticker, as he does without
a doubt,
When he orders you to “shoot it” you had better
fork it out.
“Cracked ice” is slang for diamonds, with citizens
who thieve;
And wisdom cries “fall off it” if a fiction you
believe.
After sitting on the story of the play “Within the
Law”
(Which, staged at Melbourne Royal, seemeth pretty
sure to draw
The many-headed public who can easily believe),
The Bard has “fallen off it,” and is laughing up
his sleeve.
VICTORIA.
O.E.


jy
CHWEPPE
.
-
SCHWEPPES’
Lime Juice Cordial
made exclusively from Montserrat Lime Fruit
Juice, by special arrangement with the
proprietors of Montserrat. Montserrat Lime
Fruit Juice is a most refreshing and thirst-
quenching dfink. It is soft and palatable to
the palate, so unlike all other Lime Juice.
SCHWEPPES LIMITED,
Purveyors to His Majesty the King.
MEDICAL MEN
RECOMMEND...
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS.
NABOB BOOT PASTE,
the Waterproof
Boot Polish.
ONE APPLICATION WILL LAST A WEEK, A BRUSH UP
BEING ALL THAT IS NECESSARY IN BETWEEN WHILES.
LEWIS & WHITTY, Makers, Melbourne and Sydney. u
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
Victorian Branch: »» Mcibournc. pj,, g Ring StKetS, SYDNEY.
FIRE ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc.
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
’Phone No. 236 Central. SYDNEY H. CARY,
the same moral tone and color as its com-
patriots “Alias Jimmy Valentine” and “Get-
Rich-Quick Wallingford.” Such dramas are
a natural product in the paradise of Trusts
and Combines. The programme puts the
story in a glazed nutshell: —
Mary Turner, an innocent shopgirl, is convicted of
stealing. She is “sent up” for three years as an
example to the other girls. She lays the responsi-
bility for the stealing at the door of the proprietor
of the Emporium, who pays starvation wages. The
law can be moulded to suit the wishes of the rich,
6he finds, and once out of gaol she lays her plans
accordingly. Surrounded by a band of clever crooks,
she, soon becomes rich. The system which she pur-
sues in her depredations is to keep within the law
without breaking its actual letter, though constantly
defeating its spirit. Meanwhile she is steadily pur-
suing her plans for revenge, for the debt which
society owes her she is determined to collect. How,
in carrying this out, she marries her old employer’s
son, and then crushes him with the announcement
that she is a gaol-bird; how the police “stool-
pigeon,” or decoy, is shot with a silent revolver, and
Mary and her husband are dragged into the net of
Police-Inspector Burke, are incidents in the pro-
gress of the play.
“ LIFE’S SHOP WINDOW," AT MEL-
BOURNE KING’S.
Max Clifton as the
Colonel.
Fred Kehoe , a blood-
thirsty cowpuncher.
The glaringly theatrical finish of the first
act is, after all, the strongest and least
false situation in the drama. Mary, hand-
cuffed to a policeman, is allowed • to come
and talk to the Emporium boss in his private
office, telling him that his shop-girls can’t be
expected to remain honest on a wage of six
dollars a week. She threatens to be re-
venged when she has done her time, and the
young woman’s absurdly improbable accom-
plishment of her purpose provides lurid cur-
tains for the next two acts. The curtain
to the final act is feeble, for the ungentle
Mary, after weeping for her pal, forger Joe,
who is about to be convicted of murder, falls
weeping again, on the chest of the young
man she married for revenge’s sake.
* * * *
The performance is remarkable for a
strange medley of accents. Some of the
characters talk American, but most of them
seem to forget they are living in Noo Yark.
Miss Muriel Starr, as the unadmirable hero-
ine, is very effective at the outset. . She
puts force into her harangue without raising
her voice, and she bursts into tears without
perceptible effort. But in the later scenes,
where she figures as a commanding adven-
turess in fine raiment, without being able to
show definite cause or reason for her extra-
ordinary transformation, Miss Starr ceases
to be convincing. Other new arrivals are
E. W. Morrison (the Gecko of “Trilby” long
ago), who plays forger Joe in a painfully
subdued manner; Lincoln Plumer. who im-
personates a bullying police inspector in the
stout, aggressive way of a typical commer-
cial drummer; and Miss Mary Worth, well
chosen to represent a Yankee tyne of
“crook.” In her amusing impersonation of
low cunning and vain-glorious criminality
the play utterly condemns itself, for Agnes
Lynch, the “crook” in question, is the hero-
ine’s faithful friend and co-worker. What
a heroine for a popular success ! Eric Maxon
is passable as the soft-headed young waster
son of the Emporium, who becomes impos-
sibly keen-witted and unselfish as soon as
he learns that he has married a spieleress
who has been in gaol. For the rest, there are
Robertshaw, Harry Sw-eeney, Wykeham, and
manv people disguised as crooks and police-
men. Also, bull’s-eye lights, a revolver, and
some excellent stage management. A large
nortion of the audience apueared to be deeply
impressed on Saturday night.
* age * *
At the King’s, the awakening of amorous
Lydia to a proper sense of her duty to Cyril
Mackay and the baby continues to be a long-
drawn-out process. With a little less Lvdia
and a little more incident, “Life’s. Shop Win-
dow” would compare favorably with the best
of Anderson’s productions, notwithstanding
the strange circumstances under which the
young woman sleeps out of doors on the night
that lasts only 3min. or so by the clock.
The drama is doing well enough as it is, and
the inevitable change of bill is not imminent.
>U % :Ji if
One of these weeks the Burlesque Co., at
the Bijou, will have to move to Sydney, or
elsewhere, but meanwhile “The Specula-
tors” keeps the co. busy and the house full.
On Tuesday last the Le Bruns were due
at the Opera House, but a turn that starts
on a Tuesday is as far distant from a first
notice in this journal as circumstances per-
mit. The latest turns which came within
range of its present issue were the Flying
Banvards and the Jackson Family. The
Banvards are a graceful sextette of gymnasts
who bounce rather than fly, whilst the Jack-
sons are a double quartette of cyclists, who
include one individual performance of note
amidst a lot of combined evolutions that
don’t matter. It is all very clever and
rather wearisome. Trick cyclists these times
are merely sad reminders of the last lot that
came along. Cummin and Seaham fall over
one another as before, also Reynard, the
baritone, refers to his harp-accompanist in a
weird assortment of broken Ingleesh, and
Madge Temple continues to sing sundry dit-
ties with dainty art.
v $
The revival of “A Village Priest” at the
Princess’s on Saturnight provoked vague
regrets in the bosom of an elderly playgoer,
although newercomers, whose critical sense
\vas not lumbered up with fond recollec-
tions, seemed to be highly gratified with the
results. Age and custom do not wither
and stale the excellent stage story which
Grundy borrowed over the back fence, along
with the gridiron, from the French lady next
door; and there is no noteworthy diminution
of George Titheradge’s powers, as the senti-
mental grey clergyman who wears his black
empire gown hitched in the middle, and has
benevolent intentions towards all created
things, _ with the solitary exception of the
blight insects on his rhododendrons (if they
are not tulips or lungwort; this critic is
no specialist in vegetables). In fact, Tith’s
Abb€ grows mellower with successive years,
like old Rhine wine and someone’s cele-
brated soap,' and a mote suave and benig-
nant object never beamed under a white
umbrella. Harry Plimmer’s Armand is
saddled with obesity and years, and is not
the exuberant young lawyer and lover we
have every reason to expect. It is a good
performance, but does not produce quite the
right results.: Miss Day handles the blind
mother gently and graciously, and Mrs.
Brough rep’eats her study of the Comtesse
who slipped—in fact; slid—with her
familiar earnestness. ' 11. R. Roberts’s
Torauenie is unlike Brough’s convict, in
being . too obviously acted. The old play-
goer is not as sorry for the present perse-
cuted person as he was for the former-
harried inqocent. The Jeanne of Lizette
Parkes is a-nice performance, a trifle marred
by a voice that wants modulation and
Lizette’s inability to be convincingly tear-
ful. Madeline and Nanette are received
with chastened gratification at the hands of
Misses Towers and Collins. The season
positively terminates after six nights of “A
Message from Mars,” which gets into opera-
tion on Saturday night.
* * * *
Clara Butt, modified in width, took a
Brunhilde stand on the new platform of the
Auditorium on Saturday night, and showed
Melbourne what she had done to the voice
since six years agone. It seems to have
shed some of its big, sonorous boominess,
but gained, in exchange, some clear sweet-
ness. The ripple is like thin honey, so to
speak, instead of treacle, though there are
occasional burrs in the honey. After two
dirgey Handel numbers, the Star turned the
rest of her programme into “little” songs.
“Early Morning,” by Graham Peel, and
Leoni’s “Leaves and the Wind” were the
type. Debussy’s “Mandoline” seemed to hit
popular taste harder than any of them.
Kennerley Rumford has let high living, or
strenuous paternal duties, or something,
creep into his voice and insidiously sap
some of the bite —that bite of words (with
good white teeth accompaniment) which
was once his most endearing attribute.
Perhaps he nearly got back to his old form
in this direction by driving forth “King
Charles, King Charles” as an encore.
Pianist Murdoch, who suffers rather from
being a pianist in his own country, is other-
wise a host in himself on the platform. He
played a Rachmaninow Prelude in A Flat
and a Chopin Prelude in A Flat. In the
Chopin prelude the oianist came down on
the repeated A Flat in a thunderous, boom-
ing-cannon way that made critical ears
prick up and take, notice, the sound pro-
perties of the new Auditorium being a
marked improvement on what Melbourne is
used to in concert halls. Frank Mowat
Carter, violinist, is another Australian. He
nlayed well he left this country, and
has not apparently learnt much abrawd.
ta if if if
Fried and roast Christian have been on
the menu at West’s, Melbourne, ever since
Nero came in to declaim bad verses to an
enthusiastic populace. Nero and the Chris-
tians are the principal attractions in the film
of “Quo Yadis,” the longest adaptation of
a popular yarn that has ever arrived to
preach piety and humility to West’s congre-
gations. The production takes two hours or
more to unfold. It embodies episodes of
history and imagination, and is crowded
with snapshots of banquets, loose women, and
flowing wine. It presents Nero adding the
insult of his poetry to the injury of the
Homan conflagration, and it provides an
entertainment good enough for any person
to gaze at.
% v
The sheet at Melbourne Majestic last
Saturday was crowded with tragic happen-
ings. “Gold from the Gutter” revealed a
female, torn by conflicting emotions, stalk-
ing a husband with pots of coin. “The
Romance of the Utah Pioneers” took the
spectators to the Amurkan continent, and
dumped them down amongst violence and
bitterness, apparently caused by the white
man’s bad habit of gazing fondly on the
squaw when she is red and charming. This
week the Majestic is screening 2600 ft. of
“The Hidden Message,” a sensational story
of Love laughing at Locksmiths, not to men-
tion motor-cars and balloons.
ik sfc * a.
“The Sunshine Girl,” now at Melbourne
Majesty’s, is probably the weakest show of
its kind that has yet endeavored to develop
public pessimism regarding the future of
comic-opera in the Commonwealth. The
music, at its best, is only moderately melo-
dious,_ and contains nothing sufficiently
haunting to be whistled at a push soiree.
All that one learns from the plot is the
sad case of Vernon Blundell (Frank
Greene), ordered by an old man’s will to
abstain from matrimony for a period on
pain of losing an inheritance of soap works,
soap, and sundries. Vernon, however, de-
feats the will and gets hold of the property
by acts of impersonation, which lead to the
introduction of Lord Bicester (Frank Hol-
land), Floot (Jack Cannot), and one or
two others who, in a series of rather poor
songs and interpolated stunts, do their best
to revive the flagging spirit of the piece.
The whole production howls for assistance
from a capable company, but the present
combination is not strong enough in voice or
dramatic attainments to render first aid
to the afflicted. Jack Cannot, of course,
does lion’s work, but then Jack is a joy, a
shriek and a laugh for ever. His fooling
throughout is a comfort to those of the
audience who are looking for some excuse
for applause. Leslie Holland as Bicester,
the errant lord with a swag of debts, is as
delightful as his somewhat foggy voice will
“ LIFE’S SHOP
WINDOW”
AT MEL-
BOURNE
KING'S.
"What about
them pigs?”
Edwin Campbell.
allow; while Frank Greene mobilises his
old affectations of song, speech and eye-
brow for the portrayal of the rather feeble
Blundell. Greene has one popular duet, a
bathetic item on a bee with a buzzing re-
frain, sung quaintly with Miss Jessie
Lonnen, who is very passable, but exceed-
ingly angular. Miss Grace Palotta has little
to do bpt give the performance a Viennese
accent. Miss Ivy Bickford is a tuneful
songstress, and Miss Billie Barlowe dis-
plays a hard, humorous voice and much
Peggy Pryde bounce as an effective contrast
to her nautical partner, Commodore Ban-
tock, who clowns heavily. Miss Blanche
Browne as a lady secretary bears her vocal
deficiencies thick upon her. Her singing
was only very middling on Saturday, nor
did her acting leave a striking impression on
the mind of the crowd. Chorus and dress-
ing are satisfactory, and the scenery by
Coleman and Upward is admirably done.
Phil Smith, the little comedian who struck an
Australian audience for the first time in “The
Count of Luxembourg,” at Her Majesty’s (Melb.),
is credited with a disposition to stay here as long
as he can. If he gets a release from a Dublin panto,
engagement for next Christmas he will paint his nose
red and be the dame in the next Williamson panto.
Some actors from Britain are always suggesting that
deathless fame and long, luxurious engagements await
them on their return, but Smith reckons he will be
better off in every way if he can get a steady job
in this country, where life is easier and the climate
more genial.
“Harrison O.”: The Butts are already intruding
their family upon the attention of an enraptured
populace. The music warehouses and illustrated
weeklies in Melbourne are featuring numerous photo-
graphs of the Amazonian contralto and her other
half (or less), surrounded by their joint progeny.
Joy is shown eating an apple at her ma’s feet.
Coy is held by puppa. San Toy perches on mumma’s
ample shoulder. Boy is by her side; Roy on the
other side; Mark Foy on some more side, and every-
thing in the garden is lovely, from the box office
point of view.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Actor James Atholwood (he has prepared a
new and neatly-dovetailed arrangement of the ortho-
dox Shakspearian “Hamlet” for the press, and
deserves to get his improvements tested on the
stage next time a revival comes along) shows solid
ground for his contention that the Prince of Den-
mark was not a bit mad or melancholy, but
thoroughly stage-struck. Atholwood’s case turns
mainly on the question whether an ancient German
play entitled “Fratricide Punished or Prinz Hamlet
of Denmark” was published before or after Shak.
got to work on the historic theme. In “ Fratricide
Punished,” which contains no long soliloquies, nor any
poetic thought, and has strange incidents of its own,
the precious character of Hamlet is stripped of all
the mystery which Shakspeare maniacs nave been
discussing for ages past. Therefore “Jimmy’s”
theory cannot be taken seriously by the learned com-
mentators. If accepted, it would blow all their
controversial pamphlets and papers to the winds and
leave them no more Hamlet matter for discussion.
In “ Fratricide Punished ” the Prince has no sooner
heard the Ghost’s story—a much more feasible story
than appears in Shak.’s version of it —than he
decides to play at being mad in order that he may
do the detective without exciting suspicion. He
loves acting, and has apparently hobnobbed with
all the mummers who ever came his way. Every-
thing is plain and reasonable in this crude German
play, which may have been written before Divine
William invented his wordy hero. But the Shak-
speare Societies are not going to have their beloved
Hamlet made plain and reasonable if they can stop
it.
The infallible correctness of anything in the
theatrical way that comes to Australia stamped with
the London hall-mark is vouched for by a puff para-
graph in a Melbourne Royal programme. Thus:
“It has been said in some quarters that the dressing
of the two early periods (1860 and 1885) in “Mile-
stones” is exaggerated for stage purposes, and does
not faithfully reflect the fashions of the time. Mr.
Julius Knight points out that this could not be so,
for the dressing is an exact replica in every detail
of that of the original production in London, for
which designs were made exactly according to sketches
made of the costunjes worn at the periods men-
tioned.” This is lovely. No doubt was cast on the
correctness of the “Milestones” costumes for the 1860
period, as far as The Bulletin knows. They might
have been designed from London Punch or Family
Herald illustrations of 53 years ago. But a critic
in this paper did protest that Lord Monkhurst’s
short, single-breasted frock coat, worn in the 1885
period, was fully 25 years out of fashion. The
absurdity of it was apparent to any middle-aged
person who remembers the tailoring of 27 years ago,
or can refresh his memory from an old photo, album.
Something very like Monkhurst’s abbreviated garment
can be seen in the caricatures of 1865 or thereabouts.
As for the 1895 outfit of Nancy—-a quick-witted typ-
iste who had married the boss of a London commercial
firm —it must have been designed from a caricature
of an outrageous rural ’Arriet of the period. Nothing
so hideous is discoverable in Punch for 1880-85, and
no existing mother of a grown-up family can produce
a portrait of herself as a young woman looking like
Nancy in the play.
The opening of the Auditorium Concert Hall in
Melbourne came coincidentally with another out-
break of comment on the obstructive fussiness of
Clayton, the metropolitan Town Clerk, under whose
management the confused methods of Melbourne’s
municipal council become worse confounded. Of
Clayton it is now said again, more loudly than
ever, that his policy in town-clerking is to make
himself indispensable to the muddled council by
keeping control of all the detail work in municipal
business. The obstruetiveness of his system was
glaringly revealed when he went away for a few
months’ holiday. During the autocrat’s absence his
office work was more expeditiously performed by
the assistant-clerk. On his return he grabbed the
whole command of work which had for a time been
distributed among minor officials, and the old state
of congestion was restored. These are the allegations
against Mr. Clayton as general mismanager of muni-
cipal affairs for his old conservative firm—the
council. The recently opened Auditorium is the
admitted outcome of his tactics in the letting of the
big hall of his stronghold to concert managers. His
renting system was practically a demand for a
“cut” out of the speculator’s receipts when the
maximum price charged for admission exceeded ss.
He taxed a Melba or a Clara Butt concert because
the tariff of admission was higher than for ordinary
concerts. The Saturday rent charge for any sort of
Town Hall entertainment was higher than the Mon-
day charge. The possibilities of the exactions of the
Town Hall landlord were unlimited as long as Clay-
ton had the agency, and the inevitable result was
the Auditorium, built by J. and N. Tait. Though
it will not necessarily prove a profitable spec, for the
builders as the ground floor of their e : ght-storey
building in Collins-street it will certainly mean a
considerable loss of revenue to the council.
MEN AND RELIGION FORWARD MOVEMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Special Women’s meeting on Wednesday, Melb.
Town Hall, 2.30. Fred B. Smith will speak. The
International Male Quartette will sing.—Age advt. of
the latest Yankee Revivalist—{with collection).
Forward, upward, onward
To the women’s matinge,
And the voice shall lead them manward,
And the baritone shall pray.
Capture the masculine sinner!
With prayers from lips of rose.
Lift his thoughts above mere dinner—
With a girl in a minster close.
Exalt him above the sordid
Old world, with a brown-eyed girl,
With the grace by kisses afforded,
And save his soul with a curl.
But if you’d convert the ladies
Sing hymns that crave and entreat,
Of “Oh to be nothing! nothing!”
And “Only to lie at his feet.”
There’s a special women’s meeting
Where Smith makes the welkin ring
And the choir gives masculine greeting
And the Male Quartette will sing.
N.s.w.
MARTIN LUTHER.


The “D.J. Special”
Tunic shirt at 46-
Here is the D.J. Special Value Tunic Shirt—a smart, clean-
cut, manly shirt—at a price considerably below its real
worth. We are enabled to offer it to you at this price
because we import the Materials from the best Manufacturers,
and make the Shirts up in large quantities in our own
Workroom. They are cut by an expert, and may be had in
either Zephyr or French Cambric. With soft centre pleat,
stiff neckband and stiff, rounded cuffs. The colors include
white ground with Black, Blue, Heliotrope Stripe. In all
sizes from 14 to 17 inches Neckband 4/6 each
Or 3 for 13/3
And, remember, David Jones’ Pay Carriage.
David Jones Ltd.,
Opp. G.P.0., Sydney.
1
FJ
Ĵ
J
Ĵ
I
///).
MOBILOIL
No one Lubricating Oil is best for all Cars. Gargoyle Mobiloil
gives you a grade for each type of motor. Use the grade
sftown m our complete recommendations. Mailed on request.
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty. Ltd.
New Zealand Chambers, George St., Sydney.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
Melbourne got a good look, the other day,
at the ‘conscientious objectors’’ who are
dodging drill; and it is likely that fewer tears
will be spilled over them in future. One of
them, who claimed exemption on the ground
of physical unfitness, turned out to be a
prominent League footballer, temporarily
under a cloud for obstreperousness. The
Court laughed, and sent him to the compul-
sory camp at Langwarrin. Following him
on the list of shirkers came an undersized
degenerate who excused himself from attend-
ance beoause he had been convicted of
robbery-in-company. There was nothing for
it, when he raised that plea, but to discharge
him, yet, as. a matter of .cold fact, he seems
to be more in need of a course of military
training and discipline than most young
men.
The English suffragettes, having failed to
secure their object by breaking windows,
biting policemen, assailing Cabinet Minis-
ters with sausages and pigs’ feet, tearing up
golf links, burning down houses, and explod-
ing bombs, have started a destructive cam-
paign among pet dogs. With a pinch of
aconite they slew Miss Cross’s Pekingese
spaniel, alleged to be worth £2OOO, and thev
have since announced their intention of
spreading death and devastation among
cherished curs, the pride of our best families
Herein the suffragettes show a devilish cun-
ning and a profound knowledge of human
nature in high places. There are in London
troops of fat dowagers and long, lank spin-
sters to whom the only thing on earth that
really matters is a finicking tan spaniel
about the size of a French roll, or a wad-
dling poodle—a fatty degenerate with a nink
silk saddle-cloth and ruby earrings. These
pups appear in the parks in droves, walked
out by hired handmaidens, and the energetic
suffragette who got among them with a club
would excite a passion of grief in aristocra-
tic families that no national calamity like
the explosion of Lloyd George could provoke.
The suffragettes will be serving a worthy
double purpose in going to the dogs. While
boosting their cause, they will aim a blow
at the dog-devotion of English high society
—a deplorable craze for curs that is rapidly
deposing the British lion and giving his job
to a tripe-hound.
“Rob” pictures a no-license M.L. town -
In Invercargill the Wowser ranteth and the coun-
tenance of Bung is not. For three general elections
Invercargill has hugged to itself the delusion of No-
license ; while on each occasion the electorate of
Awarua, which lies hard up to the town boundary,
has declared for the twin indiscretions of More Beer
and lou Ward. To the north of Invercargill, 50yds.
on the Awarua side of the boundary, is a series of
healthy-looking brewery depots, where kegs of beer
may be purchased. The industries of supplying In-
vercargill's demand for beer have their headquarters
in Bluff, Wallacetown, Dunedin and the brewery de-
pots referred to, and it is a notorious fact that
several fortunes have already been made out of the
business. Figures show that Invercargill puts as
much cur-r-sed drink out of sight now as it did in
the bad old days when liquor was sold over the bars
—probably more, because the average Invercargill
“nut” loathes the local brand of Wowser, and will
often buy a keg and cherish it lovingly just to
show that he is a gay young dog with opinions of
his own.
The blight of Wowserdom being upon the town,
it is not considered respectable to be seen in posses-
sion of a keg. If a man walks along the street
carrying even a handbag the shopkeeping Wowsers
breathe heavily into their whiskers, and wrestle
within themselves for that man’s soul. To such
lengths is Wowserism carried that the Women’s
Christian Temperance Union is boycotting the newly-
installed tram service because there is a whisky
advt. on the tickets. The members of the Union
decline to take the tickets from the conductors, and
the ticket inspectors eject them with enthusiasm.
The various Wowser organisations are making a fuss
about this, and it looks as if they will win out in
the end.
The numerous part of Invercargill which tries to
reconcile a thirst for beer with a desire to dwell in
an aroma of respectability is driven to quaint de-
vices. A carpenter cycling in from the north with
his kit thrown over his shoulder offers nothing new
in the way of a sensation; but the initiated Inver-
cargill person at once smells surreptitious beer. A
carter who lives near the middle of the town does a
big business bringing in loaded beer-kegs from the
depots; but he is not permitted to deliver them to
any of his customers. I stood near his house one
Sunday, and watched the said timid souls coming
round for their liquor. It was a sunny morning, *
but a surprising number of persons who drifted
casually up the carter’s right-of-way wore overcoats.
Two or three men came along with a halter in one
hand and a feed-bag in the other, and dropped in to
see their friend, the carter. When they departed, it
invariably appeared as if the feed-bags were more
difficult to carry. A couple strolled along in an
anxious kind of way, and ducked up the right-of-
way when the street was comparatively empty. They
were wheeling a go-cart, and when in a few minutes
they sneaked off again with their Sunday keg covered
up among baby’s bedding, they looked no more than
they professed, to be —a couple of eminently respect-
able counterjumpers taking the youngest infant out
for an airing.
To such hypocrisy is a community reduced when
the Wowser gets the upper snuffle!
THE LIMIT IN
ECCENTRICITY.
SHE: "Clara is now
wearing a watch on her shoe."
HE: “I wonder will she ever be capable of
wearing her heart on her sleeve?"
‘Croson : I paused the other day to ad-
mire the foresight and sagacity of a cycliste.
hhe looked between 20 and 30, was nicely
dressed, and was propelling her machine
along a fairly-busy _ Melbourne street at a
smart pace. Seated in a basket-like contrap-
tion on the handle bars in front of her, and
strapped thereto, was a small infant of about
two. I don’t know whether it was her own
child or a hired one, neither does it matter;
but the arrangement struck me as most pru-
dent. In the event of a collision with a tram-
car, motor-car, elephant, fat landlord or
other massive obstacle, the infant would act
as a buffer and save the rider’s nicely adorned
countenance from damage. Also should the
bike collapse, skid or otherwise come to grief
the child would most likely be underneath and
the lady s beautiful clothes would be kept un-
muddied to a large extent. I don’t know
what the infant thought of the matter- it
wasn’t old enough to tell.
STRATEGY.
LIZ: “But Bill ’ll get the nark if I go an darnce with you!”
JERRY : That’s all right , Bill gorn. I told Tm there was a bloke over at the pub
shoutin’ all round.”
“0.K.”: A parson wrote to the Presby-
terian Assembly, in Melbourne, last week :
I am convinced, from personal observation, that
the church-going habits of many church people on
holiday are deplorable, but most likely they are
equally unsatisfactory in their attendance at their
own church at home.
“Deplorable” seems a harsh term to apply
to church people’s habits of church-going at
holiday times. Having no business to attend
to and being bored to death, perhaps, by
their co-boarders at the. particular holiday
resort where they are getting sunburnt, they
naturally go to church if no congenial picnic
intervenes. Thus they avoid the necessity
for talking when spoken to. Only one per-
son speaks in church, and he doesn’t expect
to be answered back. For people on holiday
the little tabernacle is often the only place
within easy distance of the boarding-house
where they can sleep without risk of being
disturbed for an hour or two. Why, then,
refer to their church-going habits as “deplor-
able,” and suggest that “their attendance at
church at home is equally unsatisfactory”?
Church-going in town is unpardonable as
compared with the same indiscretion at a
holiday place. Personally, I never do it ex-
cept when I am away from my little sphere
of labor, and I resent the insinuation that I
am equally unsatisfactory at other times. If
the Presbyterian shepherd meant to insult
my sort of sheep, I am somewhat insulted.
I say “ba-a” to him. But perhaps I have
taken his meaning too grammatically.
* * * *
From information received, as the police
say, the writer is inclined to think that
there is somewhere a leakage of newchum
Chows into the Commonwealth. The lady
who purchases the vegetables for the house-
hold has no White Australia prejudices, but
she is seriously thinking of turning down
her yellow cabbage merchant and telling him
never to darken the back door again. It is
all on account of a baffling and incoherent
assistant whom lie has lately acquired. The
new sub-John doesn’t know one vegetable
from another in plain or fancy English,
and he juggles in a sad, crazed fashion with
small change, and shakes his head, and sighs
unprofitably in Cantonese, till the busy lady
of the house is almost hysterical with impati-
ence. His bland owner—or trainer —in re-
sponse to angry protests, begs consideration
tor the cheerless wretch on these totally un-
sufficient grounds : “Him newchum, Missus;
him _learn soon, you see.” Now, has that
coadjutor-John been preserving his massive
ignorance for years amongst the Australian
cabbage beds, or has he brought it fresh and
untarnished, from Cathay?
[Ernest O’Ferrall, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.)
From a Melbourne man lately back after
two years in London :
If Melbourne thinks it will shift a big load of in-
convenience by making itself a subway under Flin-
ders-street for the converging railway mob, Mel-
bourne is mistaken. Experience in the Fog and else-
where convinces that subways, while useful for a
timid few, are no good to the average hurrying,
reckless citizen. There is no necessity for subways
anywhere in this city. What it should do is to call
upon its railway gods with a loud voice, to do their
duty. Melbourne’s is about the only great terminus
in the world with two narrow openings (the one
facing Elizabeth-street is merely a slit) for its cus-
tomers to come and go by. It is about the only
terminus I know, except a couple hidden in a valley
in Edinburgh, where trains are not brought practi-
cally level with the streets. Also, it is the only
terminus in my good and wide acquaintance of rail-
THEOLOGICAL POINT.
HE: “What did the minister mean by apples
of discord?’”
SHE: “Why, green apples, of course."
ways where time-tables are so arranged that half a
dozen loads of passengers emerge at the same time
and meet half a dozen other loads pushing for in-
gress, or where the ramps or stairs have no division
between the two lots of people. To have s\jch divi-
sions, with ticket collectors at the top of them,
instead of concentrating the collection of everybody s
ticket right at the entrance, would be the right plan.
LOST SOULS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Victorian Presbyterian General Assembly, sit-
ting in Melbourne, expatiated on the particular
wickedness of boarding-house life in big cities. The
peculiar iniquities of boarders were not recited, but
ministers were exhorted to keep a sharp look-out
upon “the increasing peril of boarding-house life.”
The pastors still are wondering
Wherefor the boarder’s blood is rash;
What is the lodger’s special sin ;
Why evil-doing thrives on hash ;
Why homes for unattached should be
Such hot-beds of iniquity ;
Although inclined to take the view,
It’s partly owing to the stew.
The boarder is a wretch profane:
He really never goes to church;
He “hops the window” oft for gain,
And leaves the Gorgon in the lurch.
When angered by a leaking roof
His oaths are fifty over-proof.
Twould clot your blood to hear him whoop
When he gets cold and wat’ry soup.
He lacks a mother’s gentle sway,
A sister’s sympathetic tone,
So fiercer grows, as day by day,
He fights the keeper for his bone.
She’s tough, and sour, and sly, and grim,
And ever has her knife in him.
In all the doorways, lurking see
The perils of propinquity.
That early breakfast, and the “girl”
Slip-slopping like a sodden ghost,
The butter with its hair in curl,
The coffee made of ruined toast.
The frosted chop, the wiry steak,
The egg you're terrified to break,
The milk where sotted flies transgress
These things make not for holiness.
Then luncheon brings not peace, but war.
A brutal charge with bayonets
The dinner is. A room-mate’s snore
Makes night a round of dull regrets.
No wonder, then, as saints attest,
That sinners wild and free infest
The boarding-house; for, truth to tell,
A boarding-house is just like Hell.
VICTORIA.
ONE OF THE LOST.


CAUGHT COLD AFTER DANCING.
“Through not wrapping up after a dance my sister
and I both got bad colds,” says Miss Bertha Scott,
56 Fitzgerald Street, North Perth (W.A.). “Father
stocks Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy, and as it had
done him so touch good when he had a cold, we
thought we would try it. It gave immediate relief
and quickly cured us, and now we always recommend
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy to our customers.’ *
CAN’T SHAKE IT OFF.
How often we hear persons with colds make the
above remark; but Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
shakes them off promptly and effectively in a few
doses. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s. Obtainable every-
where.*
Wild’s Hairdressing Rooms, 30 Upstairs.
Sydney Arcade, George and King Streets, Sydney, is
the proper place to go if you want the best of atten-
tion. Electric head and face massage done in the
latest American style. Hours of business: 8.30 to
6.30: Saturday close at 1 o’clock.*
Velour Hats the New,
Rough-Finished vStyle, 13|6
The hat we illustrate, being in true
accord with Fashion, and moderate
in price, is much in vogue this season.
It is adjustable to any shape. The
brim is 21 inches wide, and unbound.
The bow is set either at back or side
as desired, and grease-proof leathers
are inserted.
In every detail this smart hat rs typi-
cal of good quality.
Shades: Dark Slate, Nut Brown, and
Olive Green.
PRICE, 13/6.
Postage, 9d. Inter-State, 1/3.
Please state size and shade when
ordering. Men’s wear catalogue on
request.
J
PEAPES <a CO., LTD.,
309 & 311 George Street, SYDNEY.
Men’s
Outfitters,
The preachment of "10-2-4” :
For weeks and weeks I have been reading with a
sort of pleasurable horror about the Sydney crime
wave. In a deadly dull life, from which all the glow
and color seem to be swiftly fading, two things have
still retained the power to thrill me —strange dogs
and crime waves. Nothing makes me realise that
there are points about living after all, so much as
a sudden encounter with a large, leaping, tenor-
voiced dog. If I am alone in the dark with an
animal of this sort, and I have no gun, and there
is no fence, or tree, or tower, or coal hole, or trap-
door handy, the desire to live becomes an absolute
ecstasy.
Of late I have been getting a lot of cheap excite-
ment out of the crime wave. For example, I spent
a recent week-end with some friends at Wahroonga.
After dinner we gathered round the fire in the hall,
and while the rain fell in buckets and the wind
blithered miserably outside, we discoursed on Crime.
We spoke of Peace and Deeming and Wainwright
and Crippen and other classic malefactors. We de-
scribed typical burglars that we had known (in
illustrations) —immense, ape-like ruffians with prog-
nathous jaws, jemmies, eyes lijce jet beads, and fur
caps, revolvers, etc. Then came the locking-up of
the house-—a glorious moment. Perhaps the fortifi-
cation of the house would be a better way to describe
it. Door after door was laboriously secured, not only
by means of turned keys, but with all sorts of
ingenious bolts and bars. The various electrical appli-
ances for ringing bells, firing rockets and guns,
and, in other respects, giving interlopers the sur-
prise of their lives were adjusted. Revolvers were
handed round by our General—l mean our host. My
room looked over the front drive. I undertook to
destroy, or attempt to destroy, with my “gun” any
burglar whom I noticed either entering or leaving the
citadel by that route. Quaking with delightful terror,
we went to bed.
I fear now that this joy has gone out of my life
for good. A detective of my acquaintance put me
in the way of viewing a couple of our desperadoes
last week. They represented, I learned, the class
that has been “terrorising the community” (Sydney
Telegraph). They were samples of “the skilled
and daring criminals who have deliberately decided
to pit their nerve and brains against the organised
forces of society” (S. M. Herald). I was presented,
first, to a boss of the Sikes profession.
He was palpably half-witted. A shambling, anaemic
lad, with shifty eyes and spots on his chin. If I
found him burgling any house that I was interested
in my first impulse would be to offer him a few
chocolates or a glass of lemonade, to go away. It
would be cruel to kick him. and to do worse would
be like ill-treating a consumptive. As a result of
playing a leading part in the crime wave for some
months _he is about 7d. ahead of the game. A sorry
record for any boss. I was taken next to a
murder-suspect. In the matter of intelligence I
would put him on a par with the other. As re-
gards physique, any lightweight could tear him to
pieces. Of courage and resource, judging by his past
performances, he is destitute. Such a man as this
lets off a gun more from nervousness than anything
else. (Indeed, detectives have told me that the
efficient burglar hardly ever uses a pistol, or even
carries one. In the more or less recent case of
Digby Grand and Jones, where two men were
hanged forXthe shooting of one constable, the police
based their opinion that the deed had been done by
Jones, on the grounds that Jones was a highly-strung
character! and Grand wasn’t.)
And so we arrive at the disillusioning conclusion
that the.’leading characters in our Crime Wave are
neither Professor Moriarty’s nor Bill Sikes’s. They
are mental and physical weaklings who have onlv
taken to lawlessness because they lack the strength
to wield a pick or the brains to sell a pair of socks.
Their desires, as regards loot, are modest for the most
part—a few pence or an old suit of clothes. Let
the next householder who hears one of them falling
over the doormat, or overturning the furniture,
in quest of booty, observe his visitor narrowly
through a keyhole, and then go back to bed. The
police will secure his goods in the morning, together
r with the thief. And there will be no uproar, no
shooting, no unpleasantness of any sort. It is a
depressing thing to have to say after a study of the
daily papers has filled one with so many splendid
visions of bellow-dramatic robbers ; but there is little
doubt that the Sydney malefactor is quite harmless
provided he is not frightened, and he is so traeri-
callv stunid that he is abound to be arrested the
moment the police start after him in a serious spirit.
A SOFT ANSWER TURNETH
AWAY WRATH.
HE (savagely): “I suppose you expect me to
give you all the money you want!”
SHE (sweetly): “ Gracious! There's not that
much in the world!”
Australian himperialists vrho clamor for
a further infusion of English History, and
“Bleeds That Won The Hempire” in the
State-school curriculum, are advised to get
hold of some of the new immigrants from
Britain and examine them in such subjects,
One of the Melbourne City Councillors
(Frank Davis) tells of a recent immigrant
vouth whd Idmirinily referred to one of his
youtn wno aamiiingry rei-ciicu • •
£nntb AfHcr nS “ f ’E g ser\ f ed with E Cardinal
w U ! th ” ' iha wr of Bulldoa breed but
th?pSipll battle
he couiah t remember the principal oarue
h e w arror Ml . suggested
the Rattle of Trafalgar, and ne wutn
eagerly swallow d “wif Cardinal
the young Where-
Wolsey at the Battle of
upon an bit tin bis
marked that Bob was a good b t o
history.
The murder of Arthur Henry Trotter by
a masked burglar, in his bedroom, is seenj-
ingly added to the long list of Melbourne
crimes that the local police have ceased to
trouble about. Any information that con-
victed the murderer would be worth £6OO to
the informant, yet the new Chief Commis-
sioner of Police has not even advised the
Government to offer a free pardon —plus
THE INDIGNITY OF THE AMOUNT.
BROKEN-DOWN STATE PREMIER (in process of
borrowing threepence from a friend): “ It's
an awful come-down for me to borrow
threepence , Bill! Why , I can remember
when I've borrowed millions!”
£6O0 —to the accomplice who merely threat-
ened Mrs. Trotter with a revolver what
time her husband was being killed. Having
failed dismally in an attempt to fix the
crime upon a certain “Bushy” Thompson,
by mean's of finger-print evidence (which
would have been valueless even if the iden-
tity of the print had been established), the
detectives seem content to remain clueless.
Two men, undoubtedly, were concerned m
this burglary, and the non-murderer knew
exactly where to find the money they were
after. Neither of them has been tracked by
the weary sleuth-hounds of the law. A
smart Sherlock Holmes might clear up the
mystery in a month with a little assistance
from the police, but an amateur who pro-
posed to teach the incompetent pros, their
business would probably be arrested for in-
sulting behavior.
The foundation-stone of the Common-
wealth offices in London will be laid next
month bv his Majesty the King. Her
Majesty the Queen will accompany his
Majesty the King when he goes to perform
this deed. His Excellency the Governor-
General of Australia lately received a cable
message announcing the intention of her
Majesty the Queen to grace the occasion
aforesaid. Which goes to show that both
their Majesties’ interest in the welfare ot
the Commonwealth and the happiness of its
people is being fully maintained. The Bul-
letin has worn a joyful smile ever since
the G.-G. informed the press of liis having
received a cable message intimating that
her Majesty will be present when his
Majesty grabs the trowel. Amen.
The discriminating thief who carefully
marks down some suitable booty and goes
after it with steeled nerves is a rare animal.
Most thieves are indiscriminating, jumpy
persons who suffer sudden lusts for propertj
whenever they see unguarded articles lying
around. Every day or so, there is a hue and
cry raised after some flying fool who has
lifted some inappropriate trifle. A hot pie
merchant, who had sold out all his meat
bombs, recently went into a Sydney pub for
a drink, and left his pie urn in the parlor.
The usual acquisitive ass was hovering
round, and the pub was presently shaken to
its cellar by angry howls. The ass had fled
with the pie machine —a cumbersome pro-
fessional apparatus quite useless to any lay
feeder —and the enraged craftsman went
bounding on his trail, hitting the pavement
on an average only three times in every
hundred yards. When the pursuer was close
at hand, the fugitive dropped his accursed
burden; but the pieman fled on after him,
knocked him down, and sat on him panting
till the police bundled along to collect their
prisoner. Even supposing the theft had
been successful, the urn would not have
pawned for much; and' the thief could hardly
hope to start in or carry on the hot-pie busi-
ness locally without fear of detection, the
hot-pie profession filing a select late calling
which has to be carried on when policemen
are most watchful and numerous. Unless
he had some idea of starting in Europe, or
selling his pies anonymously through the
post, he might as well have fled with a
policeman’s helmet, or dashed off with the
wardrobe of a barrel-organist’s monkey.
“O.Iv.” : As a result of the damage caused
by suffragetteria in Britain non-political
criminality is getting very busy. Last week
a London church was carefully kerosened
and conflagrated, and because three women
were seen within the building a little while
before the fire broke out it was supposed to
be the work of suffragettes. But if the trio
of voteless citizens did light the fire they
were quite possibly
acting in the interests
of the building trade
or the pocket-picking
industry. Perhaps they
intended to get a bit
out of the crowd that
came to see the flare-
up, or w T ere bent on
creating employment
for their malekind,
like the wife of the
hungry glazier who
goes around smashing
windows by stealth.
All destructive opera-
tions in England these
times are ascribed to
suffragettes. The
vainglorious leaders
of the militants ac-
cept the impeachment
with a suggestive
smile whilst the re-
sponsible parties reap
practical benefit from
their ungodly enter-
prises. Outrages
against propputy are
not going to cease as
soon as women get
the suffrage. A lot
of employment is pro-
vided by burnings,
smashings, mobbings,
etc., and in a country
where Poverty and
its half-brother Fel-
ony are always look-
ing for a job the tac-
tics of the Suffra-
gettes will be re-
peated long after
those naturally law-
adiding females are
relieved of suspicion.
Meanwhile every
harmless bomb that
falls into the hands
of the police makes
the Pankhurst committee as happy as
the paid anarchist in London who col-
lects further subscriptions on the strength
of another insane attempt by a free-lance
lunatic to blow up the King of Spain, or
somebody.
The recent lowering of the Melbourne-
to-Sydney motor record was written up
everywhere in heroic fashion. Two men and
a moving gas engine had fled from one ab-
surdly large city in the ghost-walking hours,
and had whirred and bounded over 572 miles
of “bush road” in 10 hours and two minutes.
At the very end of their perilous rush up
and down hill, round hair-raising turns, past
and over real and imaginary obstacles, they
skimmed, on scarred tyres and mud-caked
wheels, into —the next bloated metropolis!
It is all very splendid in a muddy, reckless
fashion, and it suggests the dauntless oily
rush of Capital from one lonely frontier post
to another, with the tiger of Sosh leaping
and clawing at the back seat. But, when all
the mud has been scraped off and the tyre
bill paid, it is merely a reminder of thre'e
dreary facts, i.e., that it is a long way be-
tween cities in Australia, that said cities
are absurdly bloated and expensive when
you get to them, and that the “bush” roads
between are d —d bad.
IN THE LIGHT OF RECENT E VENTS.
Sleuth: "Excuse me , but you didn't 'appen
to sea bald-eaded man with a wooden
laig and a rumberella , didyer?”
For years past every State of Australia
has stuck out its chest at a tremendous rate
and boasted about the diminution of its gaol
population. This sort of diminution can be
brought about in either of two ways—by hav-
ing fewer or by having a police
force that can’t catch criminals. Recent
developments in Sydney and Melbourne sug-
gest that the reduction of the gaol popula-
tion has been overdone. What these two
cities want just now is a tremendous increase
of their gaol population.
GOOD DOG.
“And what do
you call him?”
"'Tain't him — it’s a her.'”
" Well, what's her name!"
“Lady!"
“ Lady , why?”
"'Cause she'll chase a man soon as look at
him ?”
It is an offence, punishable by fine, to be
a corpse in Victoria nowadays. At Ballarat
the other day one Ward was charged £2 tor
non-attendance as a juror. Subsequently
it was pointed out that as \1 ard resides in
Heaven, it was hardly a fair thing to expect
him to come to Victoria for a change. In
Heaven the streets are gold, while Ballarat
as a goldfield is about as dead as the boots
of Moses. Judge Box appeared to think
there was something in this argument, and
since the law’s chance of collecting the £2
was like the loan of a Central American
republic the impost was remitted. If the
offence is repeated a less lenient view will,
however, be taken.
• * * *
Two United States ships reported last
Friday as being in were the Lyman
B. Foster and the Geo. E. Billings. Luckily
the barque Esau Q. Slodge escaped the
storm, and the full-rigged ship Phineas X.
Springbuffer reports that all is well.
A QUESTION OF TIME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Superintendent Sherwood yesterday afternoon said
he was confident that the arrest of the perpetrator of
the Manly shooting would be accomplished at any
moment. " It was only a matter of time.
“There’s money in ’Orstralia,” so the Agent-General
said.
And ’struth, he’s right! I’ve found some in a bureau
by the bed!
An’ ’ere’s a fifty-guinea watch an’ chain upon a
chair,
An’ you, the owner, snorin’ wiv your boko in the
air!
This ’ere’s the softest joint I’ve rooked since I’ve
been in the game!
An’ no offence to you, ole cock, I’m grateful all the
same !
I think I’ll take a trip downstairs while things are
all sublime,
An’ overhaul yer sideboard —if you’ll only gim’me
time!
But if yer wake afore I go, I’ll fill yer up wiv lead!
Or bash yer silly brains out wiv a bag of sand in-
stead !
I plavs me part—l takes me risk—an’ so, of course,
I’ll fight!
And by yer laws of “precerdent” ain’t I a pufflek
right ?
I knows a dozen cobbers in th’ shootin’-iron brigade
Who’ve dealt out stoush an’ saved their necks, an’ so
I ain’t afraid!
There ain’t no word for murder now in this ’ere
Southern clime ,
’Cept mentally deficient! — an’ they’ll only gim’me
time ! !
N.s.w.
BOYCE BOWDEN.


There is a strong brand of the Aus-
tralian Women’s National League at
Kyneton. Two of the most enthusiastic
members of the Women’s League, and
who regularly attend the meetings, are
more than 85 years of age. One does
a great deal of canvassing. —News item.
''Tpevelofite
ih °U
To develop this country would mean
the work of years. All the more reason
why the question should be faced at
once. A special loan for the purpose,
with a sinking fund to repay it in 50
years, might be advisable.
—The “Argus” (on Gippsland).
(Z«V^er^
LIST OF
ENGAGEMENT
Thursday zV- 4
Friday .
A "ttte C° rV « r, ' r 9€n'f
Saturday^a- 1 * • •
ImbenaJ
to W.N L
A ,
o^\r~
•ifow
Itep?
''From the figures compiled by Dr W,
K. Jones, Inspector-General of the In-
sane. there appears to have been no very
remarkable increase of Insanity in
recent years.—News item.
y Joe Coo K.— The Question is
Sort* o\ batt 5ba.1l I v/e*r
v/ittj my E»nj>ire ?
. •» / 4-//
Australian Women’s National League.
PRO DEO ET P ATRIA. ?
EMPIRE DAY DEMONSTRATION.
GRAND PATRIOTIC RALLY In the
Town Hall, Melbourne, Saturday Even-
ing May 24, at 8 p.m.
The Right Honorable the Lord Mayor,
Councillor D. V. Hennessy, will preside.
Addresses by Mrs. I. H. Moss (Vice;
President) and the Hon. Joseph Cook.
SARA DERHAM, Hon. Sec.
Tbe — you II observe he h*s not"visibly increased
b, result"oj- |>bor leoisUtTbn "
Ihe liberal tfow Could you ejcpecr increase,, A
or or &ny Kind
S»r, under
influence pernicious Cl^
- , M £
Bannockburn has a 'name to live up
™ s / a . n,ls In history for a great vie-
"hichl , on Ju "e 24, 1314. secured
the independence of Scotland. It is not
too much to hope that it will in the
future go down in Victorian history a>
an election battleneld which, on May
}°l 3 - enabled Corio to throw off
the Labor yoke.—**Argus. 4 *
Secretly: -■ fve,
W VougVT"#|e I promised
■f^rr^GK;—"you bknjCy sCoon<W
y flere, "brine me
\ my
110
Atclbourne ■
Hours
>3o AM+* 6.30 AM
CTferms CA»hV
Parmer:— ImlWKirw
wed better r«sb -fe -ttfe Poll *
in VCi on ”K)e r,dl, S
\ tftriy 'first". ~
VICTORIAN VIEWS.


Ĵ
Don’t Trifle
with a Cough
TAKE
«
ANGIER#MULSION
Of Chemists, 1/3, 2/9 and 4/1V
There is positively nothing equal to Angler's Emulsion
for coughs, bronchitis and all chest affections. Not only
does it heal and strengthen throat and lungs, but it promotes
appetite, aids digestion and builds up strength. For upwards
of twenty years Angier’s Emulsion has been prescribed by the
medical profession and used in the hospitals. It is the standard
approved remedy for coughs, bronchitis and all lung troubles.
Send for free Sample; enclose 4d. postage and mention this paper.
ANGIER CHEMICAL, Co., 7 Barrack St., Sydney, N.S.W.
J
@1
THe World’s Best.
DAIMLER
MOTOR LORRY.
Silent Knight Engine.
Shaft Drive No Chains.
J
SUNSHINE
Motor Cars P’t’y,
Melbourne.
Hugh V. McKay, Sydney & Adelaide, I
Agents.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
A DORNCE IN RABBITLAND.
M.C.: “ After the next dornce there'll be a interval of twenty
minutes till the blokes of the committee 'as a look round
ther rabbit traps."
“Xox”: Flying Fox Island, in Broadsound
(Q.), the place of mighty tides, is infested with the
stinking beast that gives it its name. At night the
foxes leave their mangrove fastness and spread them-
selves over the contiguous mainland, devouring and
ruining the fruit on , the few farms that exist in
this well-nigh man-forsaken spot. Not long ago the
sons of St. Lawrence armed themselves with shot-
guns, and set out to blow the stigma from the earth.
Arrived at the island, they left the boats and ad-
vanced on the foxerr'. Before them hung hideous
hordes, resting from the nocturnal activities of the
night before. The firing party crept as close as their
protesting nostrils would take the risk, and fired a
volley into the suspended rottenness. At the report,
thousands of foxes rose chattering and gibbering in
all directions, depositing dreadful mementos of the
occasion upon the representatives of St. Lawrence.
Nauseated, the men rushed into the water (which
was curdling under the stench), and, flinging them-
selves into the boats, seized an oar with one hand
and a nose with the other and fled. Since then, the
abomination of Flying Fox Island has been left to
blush unseen upon the desert air, or words to that
effect.
“Polstan” : The reply of “Unumgar” (B.
17/4/T3) to “D.R.Y.’s” question as to why bees
leave a stored hive, satisfies me that he is the local
bottle-o. He says that the bees swarm out, leaving
only the young bees that are still in the cell to carry
on, or words to that effect. Thej r don’t. If a hive is
left to itself and allowed to swarm it will generally
throw off three swarms in a season, the old queen
accompanying the first and biggest flight. The other
swarms may follow in the course of a week, but this
depends a good deal upon the strength of the mother
colony, supply of young queens or queen cells, and the
honey or pollen supply. In healthy conditions, a
good working colony, with a full supply of stores
and larvae, a laying-queen, young or “nurse” bees
and field bees, remains to continue business at the
old address after the departure of the swarms. With
a good honey flow the numbers soon increase enorm-
ously, the queen laying from two to three thousand
eggs daily, if she is of a good breed. Beekeepers,
though, prevent swarming as much as possible, and
there are strains that have had the inclination to
burst up the happy ’ome bred out of them. Such bees
do not create new queens yearly, but build queen
cells only when the old lady has, through age, become
incapable of providing sufficient eggs to keep up the
hive numbers. They then construct the cells afore-
mentioned, which the old queen tears down as rap-
idly as they are made if not prevented, knowing that
if she permits a young queen to come into being the
latter will search for her as soon as she emerges, a
royal princess, from her egg-prison, and kill her.
But sometimes if the old queen persists in destroy-
ing the efforts of the colony to supersede her, the
bees will “ball” and smother her. Then they will
draw out a few ordinary cells, into which the poor
victim has just deposited eggs, and in a few weeks
there is a coronation. If possible, though, bees avoid
following this course, for it means that they lose
enormously in numbers, owing to no eggs being laid
in the hive from the day of the dethronement till the
new queen is mated and laying. It is generally recog-
nised that “superseding” queens are positively the
best, providing the old one will permit the young
queen to be properly produced at the convenience
of the workers ; but when she won’t play the game,
and compels them to smother her, they make the new
ruler from the oldest larvae that will answer the pur-
pose in order to hurry the business up, and the result-
ing queen is often no good at all. Black bees never
supersede, and among them a queen has a good
chance of dying of old age. If she does the trick in
the middle of winter, when queen-raising is an im-
possibility, the colony dies out as soon at it begins
to fly in the spring. It may leave good stores be-
hind, too, and it is possible that this was the fate
of the occupants of the provisioned hive that
“D.R.Y.” found.
“Kikern” : The natives of the Pnrari are,
to my mind, the most besotted and hopeless in the
whole of known Papua. They are first cousins to
the people of Goaribari, who slaughtered Tamati (Dr.
Chalmers) and Rev. Tomkins, of the London Mission-
ary Society. Jet black, dwarfish, always filthy, with
deep-set eyes, fingers bony and long-nailed (retnind-
ful of the talons of the vulture), enormous mouths
and feet. They are, of course, inveterate betel-nut
chewers. The scarlet saliva from this nut (they
chew lime with it) slobbers down over them. Their
mangy bleary-eyed dogs lap at the bowls of food set
down to the men, who may or may not bother to
“shoo” the curs away. Nauseous, decaying pieces of
pig pelt or dog hide are worn on the breasts. Newly-
“married” girls wear nothing but a coat of mud,
daubed over them from head to foot. I’ve seen some
revolting sights in these parts in the way of disease.
I think a squad of medical men (or executioners)
should be continually travelling through the villages
between Daru and Oricolo. This is principally
swamp country. The people pervade themselves in
filthy straw hovels, built on piles over the ooze,
where their pigs can be heard wallowing beneath
their huts. Whenever they kill anything for food
they employ the methods calculated to be most
painful. They revel and jump about in frenzy at the
screeching of a tortured pig or whatever it may be.
These are the characters referred to by some mem-
bers of the Commonwealth Parliament as “poor, un-
sophisticated children of nature.” So they are —I
don’t think.
REASON FOR HASTE.
HE: "If you like me Setter than him, I umt set why you won’t, wait fill I get the horn
built on my selection."
SHE: “Father says I must on no account miss this hance"
HE: “Surely you can fut him off for it months."
SHE : "No, he wont wait. You see he has banght a larm
with forty in full milk, and he wants a wife
straight away."
“Eddyson”: He was called Abbott the
Charmer, but he didn’t look it. He was a fat man,
coated with ancient grease and ornamented at one
extremity with massed whiskers of the kind which,
when lain on, remained bent all day. Pat Abbott’s
powers as a charmer were not directed for the edifi-
cation of his kind, but to beguile snakes from their
lurking places about homes and houses. Pat’s beat
was over a large snake-infested tract in Gippsland.
The charmer would drift to a farm-house, and lurk
till the housewife came in sight. Housefathers were
less apprehensive and touchy about the ancient enemy
of our race. “Any snakes to-day, missus?” was the
Charmer’s invariable appeal, and in nine cases out
of 10 Pat was put on to try his wiles. His method
was simple. He walked round the house on a voyage
of investigation, then planked down, drew out an old
flute, and piped “The Wearin’ of the Green” untir-
ingly. Sooner or later he turned up with his snake
(sometimes two) in a bag, and took his fee and
passed on. There was no deception about Abbott
the Charmer. Scores of people had carefully in-
spected while he charmed the reptiles, and had seen,
with their own eyes, the snake (sometimes two)
come wriggling from under the house, hypnotised
by the melody, and drift straight into Pat’s bag.
These were always eager to testify on Abbott’s be-
half, and his reputation was high in the land. The
Charmer never played anything but “The Wearin’ of
the Green.” He had no faith in the efficacy of any
other air. “ 'Twas Sint Pathrick himself give it the
right twisht,” said he. Sometimes, where the living
was good and the bunks comfortable, it would take
Abbott the Charmer three or four days to get his
snake, but he never failed. It was understood that
he was immune to snake venom ; but the day he was
put on to charm black snakes off the premises at
Binyip this delusion was dispelled. Pat had been
doing the Pied Piper act for about an hour, when
suddenly the fluting eased, displaced by the roarings
of a strong man in his agony. Abbott the Charmer
was mad with terror. He had been bitten, he said.
He showed his marks, two distinct points in his left
HIS MOSCOW.
forearm. White to the lips, and howling dreadfully,
Pat demanded drastic treatment. He got it. It
was shocking maltreatment, all present being ignor-
ant of the exact rules for the salvation of the snake-
bitten. However, after two weeks in hospital Abbott
was out and about again. He had had a narrow
escape, and h : s occupation was gone. For the first
time he had lured a strange snake out of its hiding
place in mistake for one or both of his own trained
and docile vipers.
“Leo Lear”: I was once under the im-
pression that the small fresh-water yabbie that bur-
rows through irrigation banks, and tunnels down ;n
flat, damp ground and swamps, was the champion
deep miner in Nature, and that he bored to the
summer level of underground water 30ft. below.
But he does nothing of the kind. Lately I was put-
ting down a post in low-lying ground, and had just
reached the 3ft. mark, when the crowbar poked the
bottom out of the hole and went into a foot of
nothing. I thought I’d tapped Hell, and stood
ready to hit his Nibs on the horns and tail with
the shovel. But only water came up out of a kind
of well with yabbie holes leading into it. As the
surrounding earth was dry, and I knew there was no
water within 20ft. of the surface, I made inquiries,
and learned some facts about the yabbie. He can’t
live without drink, and, of course, flourishes when
the liquid element covers the land in the wet and
windy winter. As summer approaches, and before
the water subsides, the yabbies prepare to meet the
coming drought. A colony of 50 or 60 will work
on the co-operative principle, and make a. clay-lined
water-holding cavity, about a yard underground.
Every surface hole in the locality will connect with
one of these wells, .and here the inhabitants live
throughout the hot, dry summer months until the
winter rains bring a fresh supply of moisture. If
you happen to tap one of these reservoirs •in the dry
season, all the inmates retreat up the tunnels, and
all you see of them is a muffled laugh as the back
door slams in the distance.
“Mimosa” : The best horsemen I know are
the Boers. They get every ounce out of their horses
without unduly knocking them about. Whoever saw
a Boer, after riding his horse to a “sweat,” turn it
out in the cold to cool itself? - Upon unsaddling he
will lead it until dry, even if it takes an hour.
Whereas the Australian, as a rule, rips the saddle
off, slips the bridle, and with, a swirl brings it over
the horse’s rump, as an
intimation that it is
knock-off time. No Boer
would think of riding a
gelding hard with o u t
pulling up and dismount-
ing every two hours for
a few minutes. A stal-
lion or mare can go five
hours, but that is not the
case with a gelding. I'd
like the address of 1000
Australian horsemen who
understand that. At pre-
sent I know the addresses
of 11.
“A. Borig” : I opine this will be new r s to
a herd of bushmen. With an old hand I was over-
taken by a thunderstorm with severe lightning ac-
companiments. Old Bill looked round, and then
made for a tree leaning at a sharp angle. I made
tracks for the open, and yelled to him to come out
if he had any further use for his misspent life.
“That’s where you make the m'stake, sonny,” he
yelled back. “I’ve been in hundreds of (blanky)
lightnin’ storms in the (same again) bush, and I've
never seen a (ditto) leanin’ tree struck yet.” He
camped under that one safely, anyhow.
MACPHERSON SADDLES MIDNIGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Macpherson leads the muster
Any crock or colt will do
To canter up the river flats
Or thread the mulga through ;
But when the mob is rounded,
And the fats are to divide,
Macpherson saddles Midnight
As the only horse to ride.
He slips into the saddle
Like a girl into a cha'r,
And horse and man are mingled
In a moment when he’s there 1
They move among the cattle
And they edge a beast away—
Macpherson’s up on Midnight,
And the band begins to play !
The victim’s looking nasty,
And he drops a sideway horn ;
But the steer to bluff Macpherson
And his black horse isn’t born !
The fourteen-footer whistles
As the old horse shoots aside;
And Midnight, when lie’s wheeling,
Takes a man like Mac to ride!
The bullock bellows at the thong
That lashes him like wire,
And launches out for liberty
With every nerve on fire;
But though he had the West wind’s pace,
Or flew as black-duck fly,
When Mac is riding Midnight
They can beat him and go by!
The bullock knows his master,
And, see! he stops to wheel!
But Midnight, as a shadow turns,
Turns with him heel to heel!
A man might measure half a rod
Along that double slide
Where Midnight, on his shoeless hoofs
Has checked his racing stride.
A wild scrub steer has little sense,
But Well and he knows
The horse that has the foot of him,
The whip that finals him blows!
And if you want to see him beat
In proper, stockman style.
Just watch old Mac on Midnight,
For it’s worth a fellow’s while !
SCOTLAND.
WILL OGILVIE.


SPORTING and MATCH
CARTRIDGES.
All component parts are manu-
factured and put together in
our own factory by experts
who understand just what is
necessary to give best results.
Wholesale only—
Scottish House, 90 William St., Melbourne.
Kynoch House, 277 Clarence Street, Sydney
ĴJ
The 1.0. A.
Australians should insure in
this Australian Company.
WHY?
Apply for Booklet Free.
The Insurance Office
of Australia Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Hobart, Perth, Rockhampton.
J
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
Ĵ
TO
H.M. THE KING*
SGRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair,
nemoves Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
. Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb ft Co. on each Bottle.
J
“0.C.C.”: The carter was very indignant.
“Blime,” he said, “it gives me the fair ’ump! ’Ere
1 am, sent to the Dotty ’Ouse at Gladesville to cart
bricks for old Gravel’s job on the new laundry. Fust
load—a big ’un —I gets into the yard an’ looks round
for someone to show where it’s to go. There ain’t
a soul about, ’cos it was early mornin’, I s’pose;
but I roots about an’ finds a cove with a quiet way,
and an air of some authoritee. ‘Ah,’ ’e says, ’me
man, you’ll be bringin’ these bricks for the noo
biler-’ouse ?’ ‘Yes,’ I says, ‘I s’pose so.’ ‘Well, just
stack ’em ’ere,’ ’e says, pointin’ to a place. Well,
wouldjer b’leeve me, ’ardly ’ad I got ’em out ’an
stacked neatly against the fence, Nve’n up bustles a
important-lookin’ bloke, an’ asks, ‘Wot ’ave we
’ere?’ ‘Bricks,’ I says, ‘for Gravel’s job’, short like,
an’ I gets out me docket for the fust bloke to sign.
I seen ’im sniggerin’, an’ the second bloke ’e gives
’im a push like, an’ says to ’im to get out. Then ’e
turns to me an’ takes me docket. ‘lt’s all right,
me boy,’ ‘e says, ‘only you’ve bin an’ put ’em in the
wrong yard.’ ‘Wrong yard, be !’ I says, gettin’
wet. ‘This yere cove giv me direckshuns’ ‘Don’t
take any notice of ’im!’ says the chap, ’e’s only a
patient. ’E’s ’umbuggin’ you!’ Well, strike me,
Id been ’ad. So I puts the bricks back in me cart,
and me an’ the ole ’orse follers the bloke carryin’
me book, an’ ’e waves me right across to another
place an’ says, important-like, ‘Put ’em there,
please!’ So I puts ’em there and gets me docket
signed ; an’ I was just turnin’ away w’en up comes
a bloke in a ’urry and a uniform. ‘Now, then, you
two,’ ’e says, ‘wot dy’er mean by running in ’ere
Git back to your ward, at once! And ’oo are yout
’e asts me. W’en I tells ’im ’e laughs fit to split,
an’ me if those loonies didn’t join in!
Id been ’ad again!”
“Frae”: “Mallarapoonie” (B. 24/4/’l3)
serves up a lot of misinformation, mixed with techni-
cal terminology. Allow me to inform him that gun-
powder is not a compound at all, much less a potas-
sium compound. To make gunpowder, you take some
charcoal, some sulphur, and some potassium nitrate,
reduce each to a powder, and simply mix them to-
gether with your finger or your wooden leg, or any-
thing else handy. Fixed proportions of each must
be used to get the best results. This gives a dusty
fine-grained powder that is converted into a coarse
grained powder, by various treatments that cause
the fine particles to stick together, in larger or smal-
ler grains. But the result is a mixture, and not a
compound. In the explosion, the charcoal or the
sulphur particle has to go to the nitrate for its
oxygen, and the nitrate particle, no matter how inti-
mately the powder is mixed, is, chemically speaking,
miles away, so the explosion is comparatively slow.
You can adulterate gunpowder by adding charcoal,
so that it burns so slowly as to merely sizzle. Nor
are potassium compounds slow, sb’nt few of these are
used, and the presence of potassium chlorate is for-
bidden unless it is kept separate, and used as soon
as prepared, as in rack-a-roelt. “Mall,” etc., men-
tioned guncotton as being slower than the nitrate
compounds. Gun-cotton is a nitrate. Again it is a
question of adulteration. Nitro-glycerine is a liquid,
dangerous, and hard to handle, but, adulterated with
a particular kind of earth, it is tamed down very
considerably, and used as dynamite. Guncotton,
which is a nitrate of cotton wool, is mixed with
nitro-glycerine to make a compound known as blast-
ing gelatine. Also, gun-cotton mixed with nitro-
glycerine in a special fashion, makes a jelly, which
SUCCEEDED.
WIFE: “You were drunk last night and you
forgot yourself. Why did you get drunk? "
UBBY: “To forget myself."
is squeezed through a perforated plate into long
threads which go by the name of cordite. The
ability of most of these to get off the mark depends
on the quantity of nitro-glycerine present, or how it
is present. Nitro-glycerine spread over a large sur-
face—say, smeared over a sheet of paper—will burn
like kerosene, but the same drop in a thimble is
concentrated sheol. All these explosives are made
up with a view to the special use to which they are
to be put. As for fulminate of mercury, nobody
but a fool would dig a nail or file handle into a per-
cussion cap or any other suspicious-looking copper
tube. If any word at all is written about an ex-
plosive, it should be strictly accurate, and perhaps
the above knowledge of what is in some of these
universally used compounds and mixtures will cause
more careful handling.
UNEXPECIED.
SWAGGIE : “ Want a harvest hand, boss ?"
COCKIE: “ Yes!”
SWAGGIE (upset): “ Oh — or—do yer? Well, if I see any bloke lookin’ fer a job I'll send
him along."
“Pick”: Brolga’s rough-haired tyke was
boss dog among the mongrel nondescripts about tne
sawmill until the day he undertook to chew up Wil-
loughby’s new bullock-heeler. Then, after a long
and frothy battle, he threw up the championship.
Brolga, dispirited by the loss of fame, made excuse
for his dog’s defeat. “I bin think it,” he said, “my
plurry dog would won that fight all right, only”—
and Brolga rubbed his head to find a way out—“only
for that other plurry dog.”
“S. S. Severn”: Off Ela Beach (Papua),
at low tide, the reef stands high and dry tor almost
a mile. Upon it great branches of gorgeous-hued
corals, rose-scarlet, purple, saffron and jade, glimmer
in the sun’s rays like Orient gems. Shells,
most beautiful and rare, glow softly.
Lovely anemones blossom in blood-crim-
son, green and ultra-marine; weird bSche-
de-mer, black, grey and brown-streaked,
lies in shallow pools; and star-fish, 2ft.
in diameter, and hued bright-blue and
every blend of puce, decorate the cran-
nies of the rock. Further out gape white
giant clams, 12ft. and more across. Du-
gongs sport with their young and take
the air of moonlight nights, and nibble
soft, sea grass that grows in patches.
Turtles laze on the wave tops, and strange
fish, with curious markings, come up
and stare with great goggling eyes. Sea
snakes, striped and spotted, curl in the
trough of the waves, and great crocodiles
and sharks lie in wait for business. Also
there are octopuses, stinging rays and
squids. I saw one squid off Douka Island
which, above the surface of the water,
was as big as a billiard table. The boat
boys said it was the Devil, and I put the
rifle down. If it had been a missionary
I’d have fired every cartridge in the boat
at him.
“Leo Lear” : Re “Arm” and other scribes
with their various, descriptions of Binghi’s fish-
slaying capacity. Let me give them part of the fish-
gospel as practised by that numerous order—the
Australian nipper. When I ran wild with that clan
around the rough cliffs of Southern Vic., we caught
crayfish by the ton, by hand. Certain pools, access-
ible only in calm weather and at low tide, were
meeting places for all the red-plated crays in the
locality. Our first procedure was to secure a parrot-
fish that had attained a correct degree of unpleasant-
ness, and tie the animal on the end of a rope, haw-
ser or string. After scrambling down the cliffs, one
of the party would approach a pool stealthily on
hands and knees; lie flat out, and dangle the mal-
odorous parrot down among the caves and kelp. A
party of crays would immediately appear to see
wil at part of Footscray had wandered into their
kitchen. Then one would take a holt on the bait, and
the youth above would gently draw the hawser up.
Directly the long claws of the cray came above
water, a waiting hand closed on them, and with a
smart lift the drunk’s pal and provender would be
thrown backwards, to where the rest of the party
were waiting to grapple with and bag him. The
parrot-fish would again descend into the deep, and
the order be repeated until the remaining crays
became canny. Then we moved to the next pool.
There was excitement in it, too, as the octopus had
a fancy for the deep, rocky holes. Also, blind
rolleis frequently washed the captive era vs back to
the briny: what time drenched vouths should have
been thanking Providence that they also were not
bound oceanwards.
‘‘Sydney Sailor” writes from an Egyptian
port: Met “Vagabond” in The Bulletin the other
night at Safaja Bay, and he desired a remedy for
the cockroach curse aboard ship. Powdered borax
is the article. Two years ago my ship was literally
alive with the crawlers, and I could find no remedy
until a pilot on the Hugli River (India) cursed
the swarming soup in 10 dialects and seven forgotten
languages. When he stopped for breath we had
tied up at Calcutta, and there we bought borax.
The powder was freely laid about the runs and
haunts of the vermin, and within a week we couldn’t
have swapped a roach for a dancing-girl. Haven’t
seen one since (I mean a cockroach, not a dancing-
girl).
* * * *
“Dinkum”: I think that "Mataram” can
accept that yarn about the black “boy” escaping
from a shark up North (B. 24/4/’l3). I have seen
two photographs of the es-
capee, and the yarn, which
came to me from a reliable
source, only differs from that
supplied by the North Queens-
land Register in the manner
in which the boy describes
his escape. It was explained
to me that when he found
that he had put his head into
the beast’s masticating de-
partment and felt the teeth
on his throat, he pushed his
fingers into the marine wolf's
eyes, which caused the ani
mal to open his mouth to call
for help, and the black sud-
denly remembered an engage-
ment he had on shore. The
pictures show that the shark
had inflicted terrible wounds
on the boy’s throat, and the
flesh on the face and shoul-
ders. It looks as if the lower
jaw of the shark had caught
the throat almost from ear to
ear, while the upper jaw had
closed on the boy’s head.
“S. S. Severn”: Lari a was my Papuan
orderly, lordly but deferential; and every time I spoke
he saluted. But one afternoon, when I had come home
very tired and said: “Supposing some people come,
you say, ‘Sinabada sheno stop’ ” (pidgin for not at
home), Laria said gravely: “Sinabada, what for I
talk lie?” Later in the day a visitor came along
and this is what I heard: “Sinabada, she ston?”’
“QinoKoJn /
sinabada she tdlk she no stop. My last mail from
v xj Kt&t indii iium
rapua contained a letter from Laria as follows:
Very good Sinabada I make you one revi-reva more
beter you bin come back taro he no come up good
too many man him dead suppose you bin come back
y ,° U me two fell , ow look ,°ut you good I make
talk him too many b y lie.
Which, being interpreted, is: “If I go back he and
Korah (the cook boy) will look after me more than
ever. They will make me much sardine savorv and
if folk call when I am resting Laria will tell them
I am not at home.”
“Gouger” : lie was the most playful cuss
of an alligator of my acquaintance. Often when the
Bloomfield flooded and washed down huge logs, he’d
swim from the bank with incredible speed, catch ’a log
in mid-stream, roll it over and over as a cat does a
mouse, then, with a playful swish of his tail, swim for
the shore. One morning he was leisurely walking among
the mangroves on the opposite bank, so we arranged
a pleasant surprise for him. My mate hid himself
while I walked aimlessly about the water’s edge.
He saw me and stopped, while I stood still with the
water at my feet. Stealthily he turned his huge 12ft.
length, took my bearings carefully, and without a
sound, came back on his tracks. He entered the
water opposite me without making a ripple. I
guessed it was about time to be going, and scrambled
up the bank to where my mate had the rifles. Half
a minute after, and the tip of a dirty brown snout
was out of the water not 4ft. from where I had been
standing. The rest of the body was under water, and
motionless, his nibs evidently wondering where the
blazes the banquet had got to. He found out.
“Crack 1” A great semicircle of surprised 'gator
jumped clear 3ft. into the air. A mighty splash,
a swish of the powerful tail, a few waves, and the
’gator had retired. We could see big bubbles rising
from the water, as they always do when a ’gator is
hit hard. But all the same, we’ve seen the cow
since. He takes his siesta on a big flat rock that
commands the approach of anyone sneaking to within
rifle range. A crow is an easy thing to shoot com-
pared with a gator whose faith in human nature
has been misplaced.
WRITING TO MEASURE.
(Scene: Editorial apartment of the DOUBIEBUCK
BANNER.)
OFFICE DEVIL: “ Please , Mr. Tom, the box
sea he won't give you no more beer. You
ain't written the first bottleful yet."
“Hee Ivee”: I dunno ; but it seems to me
since I have been reading the reiterated remarks by
The Bulletin contributors that Australians can’t
ride, that I must have been drunk or ratty all these
years. I was under the impression they could ride
like blazes. The ordinary horse on the Kimberley
stations I have been on is run in as required, and
in many cases has only seen a white man once before
in his natural; that was the day he was branded.
The method of breaking is to get on and hang on,
and the station-hand regards the subsequent convul-
sions as commonplace. Horsemanship of this order
does not apply to the Australian of the cities, but
one doesn’t look for such a thing in a town. Still.
I would stake my accumulated debts that I could
produce 500 men in the small city of Perth who
would hold their own—and a bit more —with a like
number from any of the cities of Fogland.
THE WILLING GROOM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The party coming down the track was Marv t
and Dick, Ury ’ r °m
And Mary walked with eager steps, but Thr.
wasn’t quick, Iho,na B
And Richard walked a step behind and swan*
heavy stick. g a
They went straight to the chapel door Ti„» ... *
met them there. Pastor
The pastor smiled a winning smile, and smoothed his
sleek, black hair. ms
“Good day,’’ he said. “Pray enter in. Which is the
happy pair? ’ lne
“1 am the bride,’’ Miss Mary said. “This is
bridegroom dear. lne
I am the darling of his heart. His passion is sin
cere. “*
And twenty miles he’s brought me down that i,„
might wed me here. le
He courted me a good, long year among the monn
tains high ;
So jealous was his love he loathed to see another
nigh,
And if he lost his darling now full surely he would
Alas! the chapel door was locked, and lost the
chapel key.
The pastor searched where’er it seemed a kev
chance to be;
And Richard stood by Tom, and swung his nullah
patiently.
“Now go you quick, and bring the smith his noisv
labor from,’’ 3
The pastor said to Dick. But Mary turned with
some aplomb.
“Stay! stay!’’ she cried. “If Richard goes, can two
of us hold Tom?”
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


srvy'srsa^a
whTh one is UT’ ° f y ° U iS diff —-
(2) The Attorney-General denounces
.himself fiercely.
(4) Mr. Hughes (the crushed one)
makes a feeble defence. Judgment
goes against him.
(5) He hands up *
Hughes) receives it on
behalf of the Treasury.
(3) The .Judge urges him not to be
too hard on himself.
(7) The two
Hughes leave, the
Court together.
(6) He demands costs on the higher
scale. Also, he gets costs (this finishes
the misery of the other Hughes).
THE GREATEST LAWSUIT ON EARTH.
It is alleged by the Tory press that the election pamphlet issued by the Australian Ministry should have carried the writer’s signature, and that, because
of the avsence thereof, the Federal Treasury is liable for a fine of about £30,000 (there being nothing mean about the artist he has made the cheque for
£500,000,000), payable to itself. As the Government has both to pay and receive the fine, Attorney-General Hughes appears on both sides.
[Drawn under difficulties, as he was suffering from th father and grandfather of a cold, NOBMAN LINBAY, of Fculconbridge, N.S.W.]


BARKED YOUR SHINS?
Well, try Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Liniment; it will
take away all the pain and stiffness, and you will
forget all about it. Lrice, Is. tid. and 3s. Obtain-
able everywhere.*
GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle;
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
Martin’s
Stores in
them. Be
signature.
[E. Colles, Kogarah, Sydney.]
I ills are sold by all Chemists and
Australasia. Ladies recommend
sure yon get the genuine with the
.Martin, Chemist. Southampton.*
WORLD-FAMED
F or
QUALITY.
HATS.
For
DURABILITY.
SUFFERED ACUTELY.
“For about three months I suffered
liver trouble,” writes Mr. W. H. Capon, _
Turill (N.S.W.). “Mr. T. McDermott, of McDe
and Son, recommended me to try Chamber in
lets, which I did. They were the only medl ® ! " , e
could relieve me—in fact, they complete y
very quickly.”*
PERSONAL
ITEMS
“Rangan’s” farewell ode :
Gone over, Gustav de Laval, a Swede, whose name
any cocky will find on his cream separator if he
looks at it in the daylight. Writer remembers how,
while turning the mach ne, 15 hours a week, before
breakfast, with his belt in the last hole, and drops of
sweat as big as a shilling (some as big as Is. 2d)
rolling on the floor, he spelled the name frontwards,
backwards, and sideways, and wondered whether De
Lav. ever tried the job of working his devil on an
empty stomach. Like many others whose brain has
gone to universal profit, this inventor received a poor
education. He b'gan life as a clerk. But his scien-
tific tendencies soon drew him out of that. He
experimented in chemistry and physics, dabbled in
steam, and finally entered the Kloster ironworks,
from which place he gave many lesser inventions
to the world. Accidentally and incidentally he
invented the De Laval steam turbine. It was not
till the ’7o’s that he got on to the separator idea.
Though ridiculed, he borrowed money, ran his idea
through to success, and so revolutionised the great
industry of Cow Fat.
THE FACES AT THE WINDOW
OF THE SEA.
Chinese coolie labor is being imported into the
plantations of Samoa by the German Government.
The island of Hawaii contains over 61,000 Japanese,
mostly ex-soldiers while Fiji has a far greater num-
ber of Indian coolies. Even in New Caledonia there
are thousands of Japanese ex-soldiers.
—Casual notes.
AUSTRALIA: "Now how long will they be con-
tent to keep their distance?”
[FRED BROW, KOGARAH, N.S.W.]
Died at St. Kilda (Vic.), J. G. Coles,
director and promoter of the Lyric picture
hails at 1 itzroy, Brunswick and Prahran.
Coles, who had been a sick man for some
time past, was formerly a grazier, and the
? 011 ) that he thus garnered was employed in
lavishing pictorial instruction on the “work-
ing classes.’’ His P’ran show was the hrst of
its kind in Melbourne suburbs. Unfortu-
nately the stack of money he won from the
enterprise couldn’t buy him a clean bill of
health, and he passed at the unripe age of
46.
“Vic.”: The Thomas Mitchell Memorial,
on Mount Aripiles, was dedicated on April
30. There is no cairn built; indeed, that
would be superfluous. Detached from the
mountain, itself a huge cairn, there is one
lofty, outstanding peak, never climbed, shoot-
ing up nearly 800 ft., red, green and grey with
lichens. A copper tablet, inscribed to Mit-
chell, is fixed to this. Deflecting from the
Murray, he saw from Mount Hope a mag-
nificent prospect south and east, and the
name of Australia Felix sprang from his
imagination. The names remain which he
gave to streams, ranges and landmarks.
Yet Queensland’s Mitchell River is the only
notable geographical feature with his name.
It is said that the Natimuk school-children
began the move for the Aripiles memorial.
Mitchell give the name after the Aripiles
Mountains in Spain, at Salamanca, where
he fought under Wellington against Mar-
mont. He climbed the Victorian Mount
Aripiles on July 23, 1836. Horsham is near
by. It sneered at the Natimuk idea at first,
but ultimately went in with enthusiasm.
Three thousand people gathered for the cere-
mony ; the school-children came in five four-
horse waggons. For the edifying of this con-
gregation, Walker, head teacher of the Nati-
muk school, coupled Flinders and Mitchell
happily in a Tennyson quote : “Mighty sailor,
this is he, was great by land as thou by sea.”
THE WHOLE STOP YIN A NUTSHELL.
It is the duty of a Ministry to declare its policy,
not of an Opposition. The primary duty of an
Opposition is to examine a Government’s policy,
and, where that policy is, in their opinion, unwise "to
criticise it vigorously. —Sydney Telegraph.
JOKE COOK : “We want Offis.”
AUSTRALIA: "But what's your policy?"
JOKE COOK : “Our policy is that the other
party's a cow!”
Bill Dyson wanted to insure his house at
Chelsea (London) a short time back, but
when it was known that he had caricatured
the suffragettes the insurance co. promptly
jumped up the premium 100 per cent.
According to London Daily Herald, the
recent strike of doughies in the Dense Fog
brought to light the fact that the King’s
baker was an anarchist. The specialist en-
gaged fabricating loaves of
peculiar twists and excep-
tional merit for the royal
table proved to be the usual
foreigner, and a strong be-
liever in the policy of elim-
inating kings and knocking
out law. Fortunately he was
a passive anarchist, who
only blew up in a verbal
sense, otherwise the tempta-
tion to introduce an ingeni-
ous little bomb into the
royal loaf might have been too strong for
him.
From “Rosna” in London :
The High Panjandrums of these isles who won’t
permit the frilly sex to enter the legal profession, are
down on their hands and knees before a mere woman,
who has shown them what the sex can do when it
puts its mind and its tongue to it. She is Miss
Lind-af-Hageby, an Anglicised Swede, hon. sec. of
the Anti-Vivisection Society and editor of its re-
views, and she is conducting her own case in a libel
action against the Pall Mall Gazette. Her open-
ing speech occupied nine and a half hours, and the
Judge and his minions, and just about the entire
British press has been assuring her that it was a
brilliant, concise, lucid and entirely professional ad-
dress, and one that any he-barrister might be proud
of. The lady, who appeared in court in a long, red
Portia-y coat and a little, close-fitting hat, later
spent four hours under cross-examination, with
equally good results. The same day Mrs. Pankhurst
was also conducting her own case on a charge of con-
spiring to outrage, and the contrast was rather un-
fortunate for the Lady of the Hammer and the Bomb.
Mrs. Pankhurst is what male novelists call the eter-
nal feminine. She is a frail, rather pathetic-looking
dame, who always dresses in the height of fashion
and stands in the dock with vice-regal weariness,
clasping a bouquet. She can also talk for days
on end, but she hasn’t the legal mind of daughter
Christabel, and dispenses irrelevant home-truths
chaotically. That curious beastie. the British anti-
suffragist, says that if women had votes Mrs. Pank-
hurst would want to enter Parliament. Well?
Among maritime men there is general sur-
prise over a notification that Commander
Brewis will not be the Commonwealth’s
Chief Lighthouse Inspector after all. The
salary is f 800; Brewis wanted more, and
the Government couldn’t see its way to pay
it. So Brewis took the back track and
withdrew. He was safe to get the job if
he wanted it; wherefore, although Tudor
formally invited applications, few took the
trouble to apply. Consequently. Tudor goes
through the whole business again.
ANOTHER STRANDED CIRCUS
TROUPE.
John James Matters, who died lately in
Sydney, aged 75, came to Australia in the
early ’6o’s under engagement to Pete and
Betts and Co. to supervise the building of
Queensland’s first railway-—or one of its
first. Later, he was boss of the Ramornie
Meat Works, gold-miner at Solferino, and
builder at Armidale (N.S.W.). In 1882 he
became an inspector in the N.S.W. Railway
Construction Department, and laid tram-
ways all over the place, from Broken Hill
to Rushcutter’s Bay. When he wasn’t at
work he toiled for Australia’s defence in
various volunteer regiments, and dropped
out with warrant-officer’s rank no longer
ago than 1910.
There is one good citizen of Melbourne
who objects, on personal grounds, to the
signing of daily newspaper articles. The
popular William P. Hurst, of the firm of
Robert Hurst and Co., is that man. The
Hursts run a boot factory as well as a num-
ber of shops. Every day the iniquities of
the Labor party and the deplorable slavish-
ness of union factory workers is denounced
in the Akgus over the name of William
Peter Hurst. The W.P.11. of Propputy’s
pet journal lashes Labor with knotted head-
lines, such as “Mob Rule,” “The Despotism
of Unionism,” and so forth ; consequently
W.P.H., of the factory, begins to find that
his character is under suspicion. His second
name is Patrick, not Peter, but seeing that
he uses only the initial in his autograph it
is embarrassing for him when a fellow tra-
veller in a tram-car or railway carriage
shakes an Argtjs at him and says: “Peter,
I never would have thought it of you !”
“Mr. Ocky”: A last word re Poon
Gooey, over whom this country’s leg was so
disgracefully pulled by the meddling Holy
Joes and piebald Australians. I notice that
the Sydney pressmen learnt from him that
he had attended the Methodist Church in
Geelong. As one who knew Gooey, let me
say that the soulful stories about his
“Christianity” were piffle. The Superin-
tendent Minister of the Methody Church in
the Geelong district says: “The gentleman
(Gooey) had no connection whatever with
the Methodist Church in Geelong. . . I
do not know. what Church he belonged to,
if any.” Neither do Geelong people gener-
ally. For the rest, Poon Gooey has been
represented as a very successful business
man, who should not be compelled to give
up his large interests, though no one was
asking Poon himself to leave Australia. As
a matter of fact, Poon had the sort of busi-
ness that might be expected of any China-
man—just a medley of fruit, vegetables,
empty cases, sacks, and so on, dumped on
the bare floor of Geelong’s shabby market-
place.
D/SAPP-OINTMENT.
There is, however, one serious fly in the ointment.
—Sydney Telegraph.
Seems to be a chronic state of affairs with a
certain party. Anyway, who wouldn't be
serious under such circumstances—and every
prospect of condemnation to another three years
of it!”
J. S. Jamieson, of Peakhurst (NSxvr\
who recently celebrated his 80th
and was banqueted by friends at
hurst School of Arts, was the orij nil
Jimmy” of the early days of GallCo
v. Protection struggle in the Ma Statf U p de
C ii nt y i ß ; R ,: Wlse - in a Hand artiS 6 ;
alluded to him as the “late Mr Tam; l< %
but the alleged corpse explained to h^ 011 ’
that, though he had drSpid righf S „„V S, I
political and city life, he felt equll to ll ° f
more birthdays in such capitafXrm n “ anj
The Marquis of Hertford, a penniless rL*
who, as Bari of Yarmouth creatpri eer ’
sensation a few years ago, i s IboutT
marry the widow of Charles Moss Cockl *
Brisbane solicitor, who left his lady of a
tune of £652,000. The solicitor was ?£
n? Afii a . Commissioner
of A&dayits m 1878, by
Chief Justice Cockle, of
Queensland; but it W a S
said that there was Uo
fannly connection between
the two Cockles. TV
solicitor _ threw up the
Com m is s ionership i n
1897. The Chief J US
tice s anpointment was
due to_ Governor Bowen,
who wrote to a high legal authority to send
them a “chief,” who need not of necessity
be a great lawyer so long as he was a eentlp
man.
The will of the late Mrs. “Jim” Toohev
has been proved at £21,439. Mrs. Toohev
was a daughter of Mr. Ferris, of the old
Royal Oak, at Parramatta. She split ud
her estate amongst her relatives and her ser-
vants, and did well with her little lot The
family, of course, still holds a big handful of
the Standard Brewery stock. The two
Toohey families turned the concern over to
a public company 12 years ago, and when
things didn’t turn out as well as had been
expected they voluntarily handed bark
50,000 of their £1 shares and had them can-
celled—an action that will always stand to
the credit of the late Mrs. Toohey and the
Toohey executors.
NEWLY-ELECTED SPEAKER EVANS ,
OF TASMANIAN ASSEMBLY.
“Wealsman” : This yarn ought to be true.
A Wowserish friend of the late Jonathan
Best, M.H.A. (Tas.), met Norman Cameron
at or after Best’s funeral, and said: “Well,
Mr. Cameron, your old opponent has gone
and left you a clear field in Wilmot at last.
It’s strange that the Lord should take an in-
offensive man like him and leave you free to
rampage up and down the earth.” “Ah!
replied Cameron, “probably God knows
Best.”
Jonathan Best, of Deloraine (Tas.),
crossed the Jordan last week into the
tattered shadows of the Great Dunno.
His years were 73. Jonathan was an
agreeable old farmer, was- a politician off
and on for 19 years, and during a long and
plodding career on the Deloraine Road
Trust, he helped to keep the local roads in a
state of repair that would madden a Sydney-
ite with envy. Writer has fled over these
roads in various vehicles, and he tesbnes
that Jonathan Best, though neither brilliant
nor eloquent in politics, didn’t live in vain.
When a wet night is coming on, and there
are still 20 miles to do, and the petrol sup-
ply is running low, and the sparking plug is
working none too well —at such a time a
good road bangs all the orations of Demos-
thenes.
The just-dead Mrs. D’Oylev Carte, widow
of the Savoy Theatre owner who produced
Gilbert and Sullivan’s operas in London,
had two brothers in Adelaide, one an arcin-
tect and the other a journalist who also did
a bit of farming. J. M. Black, the journal-
ist brother, has the reputation of being api
to take a shorthand report of a speaker wit
equal facility in English, French or ye '
man, and he has dabbled in several other ia
guages. He has reported Parliament
S.A. so often that his pencil knows J
what each politician intends to say direct,
he rises to speak. Black has scien i;
tastes, and has written a book on Austral
wild flowers; he is a leading light am
the field naturalists, and knows a heap a
indigenous orchids and such abstruse *>
tables. He has retired from strenuous w
but his skill as a note-taker remains.
THE PARTING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hop Poon Gooey not unnaturally resents the harsh-
ness of the law that compels his wife, and indirectly
himself, to leave Australia. “It is finished; I go,”
he told a reporter. Having left no stone unturned
to secure a relaxation of the cast-iron regulations
that govern such matters, he accepted the inevitable.
“ If I stay always in China, I would not go
back to Confucianism,” said Mr. Poon Gooey. “I
will meet Christians in Canton, and as we belong
to the Church of Christ, and have no denomination,
we can go to the church that is nearest. In Geelong
we used to go to the Methodist church.”
Both the children were born in Geelong, the elder
being 22 months and the younger 5 months old.
“This one was christened Queenie; that one Lena,”
said the father. — Mournful Slabs from interview in
Sydney Moaning Herald.
Weep for the Poon ! Mourn for the Gooey !
A hard-hearted Government compels to hump his
bluey.
Everything is finished. Turned are all the stones.
Hop Poon Gooey’s got to go— (Loud groans).
Hard is his lot—dreary is the parting—
Woe to the tyranny that brought about his starting!
Heaven help the Government! How the Herald
scowls—•
Hop Poon Gooey’s left Geelong— (Dry howls).
Twain are the kids. One is rather teeny.
Lena is its Clistian name—the other’s name is
Queenie;
Gloomy are their faces—neither of them speaks—
Hop Poon Gooey’s babes are off— (Fierce shrieks).
Here is the Missus—sorry to have known us!
Ready, ay! and able, too, to earn the Baby Bonus !
How the D.T. blushes while her tale it tells—
Missus Gooey’s had her last one here— (Strong
yells).
Ah, what a scene! Oh, what a picture!
Worthy of (and sure to get) the Clistian’s scathing
stricture!
“ Yellow’s not so very dark—mixed with White, it
pales—
Baptised Christians—Methodists—like us”— (Sad
wails).
Shame on Australia! Hark, the Herald’s weeping!
Ere surrendering the Hops to kindly China’s keeping;
Tender-hearted grandma! Full of “buts” and
“ ifs ” —
Goon Pooey—Going Pooey— Gone!—(Hard sniffs).
[Perpetrated for The Bulletin
By EDWARD
MACCULLOOH
(O. C. Cabot), Megalong-street,
Katoomba, N.S.W.)]


CHAMPION
TOBACCO
TOBAU.O
FLAKE CUT
THE KING’S CHOICE.
AN END TO MOULDY OR DRY TOBACCO!!
u ottaMPION ” is not only guaranteed to open up as sound as when packed,
hut IMPROVES BY KEEPING.
SEALED OR UNSEALED TINS.
J HE pjp£
OF PEACE AND QUALITY
L M N
400
. V-*
»
vef/ p.pe G^ran,^
mm
■BF
imiv


WORTHINGTON PUMP COMPANY LTD.
PUMPS-STEAM, AIR or MOTOR DRIVEN, CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS
CONDENSERS and COOLING TOWERS. GAS and OIL ENGINES and
GAS PLANTS. MINE VENTILATING FANS, AIR COMPRESSORS
FEED WATER HEATERS & PURIFIERS. OIL & STEAM SEPARATORS
For Catalogues and
Information apply—
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY
rans, ciA--
Steam Turbines coupled to Dynamos, Alternators, Pumps, Blowers,
The Original Inventors of Parsons' Type.
C. A. PARSONS S CO., Newcastle-on-Tync,
HAVE SUPPLIED OVER 60,000 B.H.P. OF TURBINES IN AUSTRALIA ALONE
WILLIAM ADAMS (Bb COMPANY LIMITED
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane
Perth.
Sole Australasian
Agents—
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
'Hie Australian Mutual Fire Insur-
ance Society (now Ltd), of Sydney:—
Bonus
to Added Total
Policy- to Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. holders. Funds, serves.
1900.. 617,213 18} p.c. = £7,087 £4687 £6,639 £109,638
1901.. 19,963 18} ~ ~ 7,036 4036 8,891 118,529
£12,500 Reserves transferred to Capital .. 106,029
1962.. 17,952 16} p.c. = 8,224 4224 5,504 111,533
1903.. 17,184 161 c ~ „ 8,248 4248 4,688 116,221
1904.. 23,313 16} ~ ~ 8,296 4290 10,733 126,954
£12,500 Reserves transferred to Capital .. 114,454
1905.. 21,447 14} p.c. = 9,312 4312 7,823 122,277
1906.. 20,403 14} ~ „ 9,262 4262 6,879 129,156
1907.. 21,562 14} ~ ~ 9,237 423 S 8,087 137,243
£12,560 Reserves transferred to Capital .. 124,743
1968.. 21,280 14 p.c. = 10,430 4430 6,370 131,113
1909.. 18,277 14 ~ ~10,553 4553 3,171 134.284
1910.. 22,337 14} ~ ~ 10,983 4984 6,370 140.654
£15,060 Reserves transferred to Capital .. 125,654
1911.. 24,005 13} p.c. = 12,040 5141) 6.825 132,479
1912.. 22,640 14 ~ ~12.588 5388 4,664 137 143
1913.. 20,944 14 „ ~13,497 6297 1,150 138.293
The capital, to begin with in 1872, was £6250. It
is now £90,000 ; and most, if not all, the extra
£83,750 has come out of profits, no less than
£65,000 of it in the past 13 years. There are few
more profitable things than a well-managed fire-
insurance office when once it has got through its
teething. The trouble with a lot of the infants is
that they haven’t the strength to pull through that
stage, whereupon some kind lady in the same line of
business takes them over and eats them. The Aus-
tralian Mutual got in early, and made a name for
itself in Sydney when competing Australian offices
were few and not very progressive. In a manner this
wasn’t a very progressive office either. But it had a
policy, and stuck to it —it knew that it took a
whole lot of premiums to pay a £lOOO claim, and it
laid itself out to get the business that looked safest.
That, of course, meant slow progress, so far as aggre-
gate figures were concerned ; but it meant unusually
good profits compared with the co.’s very moderate
capital. Of late, recognising perhaps that its re-
sources are now bigger, it has moved more briskly,
ar.d has even launched out into branches in Mel-
bourne and Brisbane, bes-des jumping into the acci-
dsnt and employers’ liability business. The result is
rfiown in pretty large changes for the past year:—
Pre- , Ek- Loss Expense
miums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
.895 ..£29,416 £6,717 £12,828 22'8 p.c. 43 6 p.c.
1900 .. 33,888 8,131 13,765 24'0 ~ 40‘7 ~
1905 .. 36,088 7,149 15,009 19’8 ~ 4L6 ~
1908 .. 37,462 7,710 16,818 20-6 „ 44-9 ,
1909 .. 38,824 11,223 18,170 28’9 „ 46’8 ~
1910 .. 41,845 9,890 18,748 23’6 ~ 44‘8 ~
1911 .. 43,459 11,039 17,706 25‘4 ~ 40 9 ~
1912 .. 44,821 12,322 19,312 27'5 „ 43.1 „
1913 .. 53,260 17,478 25,056 32‘8 ~ 47‘0 ~
Both loss and expense rates are higher; but, after
all, a co. that shows a loss rate of 40 p.c. on a pre-
mium income of £lOO,OOO has £60,000 left for ex-
penses and profits, whereas if it selected and took
only £50,000 of the risks, and thereby got its losses
down to 25 p.e., it would have only £37,500 avail-
able for expenses and profits. The expense rate for
the past year is probably abnormal: a co. can’t
establish itself in other States without laying out a
bit and getting very little back for a while. As for
policy-holders, the position of the eo. needn’t give
them a moment’s unrest. It is shown above that the
premiums were £53,260 for the year. Capital and
reserves are nearly 4} times more than that, whereas
in the average British office the co.’s funds are equal
to only about If times the annual premiums. From
this important point of view the position of the co.
is extraordinarily strong. Certainly nothing much
can be said about the securities into which this
money has been put, because the co. merely says that
of its investments £164,627 is in city freehold pro-
perty and mortgages and £69,445 is on deposit;
but, so far as one can learn, the first cons deration
with regard to the co.’s investments is safety. The
interest earnings last year were £10,252, or at the
rate of £4 7s. 6d., which is just about the return
one would expect if the investments are what they
are supposed to be. The fixed div. is at the rate of
8 p.c. ; after that the co allows its policy-holders
the usual rebate of 20 p.e., and divides an equal
amount among its shareholders.
The Swan Brewery Co., Perth (Wes-
tralia) :
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Sept.,’os.. 19.663 24 pc.= 12,174 267 7,222 157,745
Mar., ’06..24.383 32 ~ ~ 16, 32 186 7,965 165,710
Sept.,’o6. .13,038 24 ~ ~12,174 832 32 165,742
(And Div. Tax.)
Mar., ’07..24,601 24 p.c. = 12.783 617 11,201 176.943
Sept.,’o7.. 14.528 24 ~ ~12,783 1020 725 177,668
Mar., ’08..22.829 24 ~ ~12,783 786 9,260 186,928
Sept.,’6B.. 15,265 24 ~ ~12,783 697 1,785 188,713
Mar., ’O9. .24,743 24 ~ ~!•>,783 1777 10,183 198.896
Sept.,’o9.. 17,355 24 „ ~12.783 1500 3*072 201,968
Mar., ’10..27,223 24 ~ ~ 12,783 2229 12,211 214,179
(Pref. div., 6 p.c.)
Sept., ’lO.. 17,350 j 24 pc ' = 12 ’ 1 1 167 2,954 217,133
Mar., ’11..35,424 | 24 ” ” 12,783 } 2972 18,842 235,975
Sept., ’ll. .21,604 | 24 ” ’’ 12 'y| 8 1 1037 6,957 242,932
Transferred to capital, -101,450 .. 141,482
Mar., •12..36,460| 1 ® p ' c ' = 17 ’g 48 [ 734 17,856 159,338
Sept.,T2.. 18,326 { ] jj ” ” 17 ’g 48 917 158,877
Mar., ’13..38,114-j •’ 416 9,667 178,544
The Westralian thirst is still vigorous, and the past
half-year’s profit is the largest ever shown. The rate
of div. on the ordinaries certainly isn’t what it used
to be, but this is explained by the fact that 18
months ago the shares were doubled out of reserves.
The business has been an exceedingly profitable one;
notwithstanding the big dividends paid, the profits
left in the concern amount to approximately £2
10s. for every £1 of capital put up by shareholders.
And vet there was a time, shortly after the Mel-
bourne boom broke, when a lot of the shares were
forfeited for non-payment of calls. The assets now
amount to £513,098, though‘on the other side there
are £53,287 of liabilities, mostly mortgages on the
hotel properties into which the co. has put most of
its savings. Ten years ago these properties stood at
£107,165 (cost price) ; now they have been in-
creased to £231,562. Rents brought in £9065 in
the past six months. This hotel asset is not being
written down. A few .years ago a deprec’ation fund
was started, but it was presently transferred to re-
serves on the ground that there had been a vast ap-
preciation in the value of the properties, as a whole.
All the same, a depreciation or replacement fund is
a handy thing to have on the premises. Pub build-
ings won’t last for ever, and the bricklayer will want
his wages even if the land he is working on is worth
10 times as much as the owner paid for it. Other
assets of the co. include freehold brewery premises
(also at cost, amt alleged to have iaigelv appreciated),
£84,475j plant. £71,574 t:t actually cost
£139.235) ; book debts. £40,142 : and mortgages
and other loans, £45.576. The amount written off
plant is not included in the profit shown in the
table. Altogether the co. has been a sweet proposi-
tion, and looks just as sweet as ever. A had slump
in hotel properties would no doubt hit it hard; hut,
though nobody can tell what Cold Tea may do in
time, at present there is no apparent reason for this
co. to feel nervous.
The Equitable Life Assurance Society
of the United States: —
Income (less Added
Amounts Total Out- to
Written Off). Claims. Expenses, goings. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
1900.. 12,639 530 5,403,717 2,145,201 7,548,918 5,090,612
1901.. 13,6)7,221 5,800,186 2,324,063 8.124,849 5,482,372
1902.. 14,435,370 6,"54,346 2,609,330 8,063,676 5,774,694
1903 .14,656,981 7,125,791 2,975.574 10,1"1,365 4,555,616
19 )4 .17,3)2,203 7,583,435 3,052,345 1",635,780 6,666,423
1905 .12,356,3<0 8,667,720 2,834,010 11,502,330 854,050
1906.. 14,091,717 9,178,971 2,065,06811(244,039 2,847,678
Taken
from
Funds.
1907.. 10,806,224 9,284,554 2,053,070 11,337,684 f
Added
1908.. 19,012,374 9,961,825 2,132,186 12,094,011 6,91b;.ji>3
1909. .15.934,185 10,631,431 2,213,395 12,844,829 3.089,356
1910.. 14,093,055 10,935,0 6 2, 176,400 13,111,426 981,629
1911.. 17,225,828 11,510,378 2,181,729 13,692,107 3,533,721
1912.. 15,582,039 11,5 >9,886 2,197.159 13,7»7,045 1,874,1*94
This was the gaudiest of the three big Yankee offices
which asked Australia to help them get big figures.
They were b g-figure mad ; the cost of the business
was quite a minor consideration. Certainly, there was
some method in their madness; for the bigger the
funds the bigger the pull the bosses of the concerns
had in America’s “high-finance” circles. That pull
expla ns why not so very long ago Pierpont Morgan
paid some millions of dollars for a controlling share
interest in the Equitable, though the entire share
capital is only about 100,000 dollars ( £20,550) and
the dividend is limited to 7 p.c. But the Legislature
has put a stop to the big-figure madness by limiting
expenses and the volume of new business ; hence, new
business-getting by any foreign office being costly in
Australia, the co. withdrew its canvass, and David
Fell and Co. were appointed attorneys to accept pre-
miums and pay claims.
Under American law there must be a valuation of
assets every year, and the shrinkage or expansion of
values must be shown in the Revenue Account. This
explains the erratic conduct of the Income column
in the table on top. A better view can be got from
the following:—
Income from Increase in Total or Net
Business. Valuations. Gain in Funds.
1904.. £16,315,716 £986,487 £17,302,203
1905.. 15,817,699 3,461,319 12,356,380
1906.. 15.489,968 1,398,251 14,091,717
1907.. 15,137,762 4,331,538 10,8 6,224
Increase.
1908 . 15.659,299 3,953,"75 19,612,374
1909.. 15,258,469 675 716 15,934,185
Decrease.
1910.. 15,499,696 '.4", 14,093,015
1911.. 15,604,625 * 17,226,8 8
1912.. 15,861,608 2,&.*69 15.582,039
Income from business includes interest. The follow-
ing exhibits the premium income alone:—
1904 £12,931,442
1905 12,386,891
1906 11,646,293
1907 11.106,346
1908 10,774,907
1909 10,825,399
1910 10.925,549
1911 10,903,626
1912 11,209,423
This shows that the people have got well over the
scare that followed the clean-up previously men-
t'oned, and there is a healthy upward movement
again. Unquestionably policyholders are all the bet-
ter off for the stopper which the Legislature put on
the wild rush for business. The expenses, though
still large by comparison with the best Australian
results, are now down to £l3 17s. p.c. of the total
income—they used to be well over £2O. The reduc-
tion means better bonuses. As for security, there
was never any reason to doubt it. The American
offices publish detailed l'sts of their assets, and the
fact that their business is growing is proof of a sort
that those assets are regarded as satisfactory in the
place where their value is best known.
* * * *
The Trustees, Executors and Agency
Co., of Maoriland (Dunedin) :
To Re- Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1962 .. £1370 9 p.c. = £9OO £470 £5,180
1963 .. 1365 10 ~ ~ 1060 365 5.545
1604 .. 2234 12 ~ ~ 12"0 1634 6.679
1965 .. 4138 15 ~ „ 1500 2638 9,21-7
1904 .. 2880 15 ~ ~ 1500 13*0 10,597
1907 .. 1697 15 ~ ~ 1500 197 10.794
1908 .. 1880 15 ~ ~ 1500 380 to 11,174
1909 .. 1847 15 ~ ~ 1500 347 11,521
1910 .. 2185 15 ~ ~ 1500 685 12,206
1911 .. 1880 15 ~ ~ 1500 380 12,586
1912 .. 2190 15 ~ ~ 1500 690 13,276
1913 .. 1876 15 ~ ~ 1500 376 13,652
It isn’t a big business (the estates in hand are
valued at only £1,756,306) ; but as the paid capital
is only £lO,OOO, and as all of it is out earning good
money, apart from the business, the co. manages to
pay a very solid div'dend. That is the advantage of
a concern of this sort; all the capital that it is
necessary to sink in unproductive assets is the trifle
it costs to buy a brass plate, an office mat and a
few sticks of furniture. In this case practically all
the capital and reserves is represented by “mortgages
and debentures,” wh ch bring in more than enough
to pay a 10 p.c. div. on the capital. As for the
risks, they fall under two heads: (1) Those arising
from faulty investment of the co.’s own funds, though
if the co. doesn t pass all but extremely gilt-edged
securities, the Board is a much bigger ass than it
looks on paper; (2) those arising from the mis-
reading of instructions in wills, etc., and with expert
management there isn’t much in that. Besides the
paid capital and the reserve's, beneficiaries are pro-
tected by £40,000 of uncalled capital; and that’s
only one of the advantages of turning to a profes-
sional trustee instead of depending on the usual
“friend of the family” who doesn’t guarantee any-
thing—riot even that he will be alive when he’s
wanted.
The Co-operative Wool and Produce
Co. (Sydnriy) - ':—
Bonus Added
to to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Clients, serves, serves.
Feb., 1900.. £8,788 6 p.c. = £304 £4506 £3978 £6,723
April, 1961.. 3>o 6 „ „ 855 _
June, 1902.. 2,689 6,, ~1409 p'Bo 7;468
June, 1963.. 1,625 6., ~1306 319 7^787
June, 1964.. 2,612 6,, ~1335 677 8^464
June, 1905.. 4,783 6 ~ ~1335 1742 1706 10,170
June, 1906.. 9,5°6 6 ~ ~ 1335 3183 5008 15J78
June, 1907.. 10.66) 7 ~ ~1559 4523 4587 19,765
Written off securities, £2615 . 17,150
June, 1908.. 8,666 7p.c=1560 2504 4002 21,152
Written "ff securities, £2840 .. 18,312
June, 1909.. 9,572 10 p.c. = 2°?9 2924 4419 22 731
June, 1910.. 16,482 10 ~ ~2229 6283 7970 3' >* 7ol
June, 1911.. 10,779 10 ~ ~3973 5311 1495 3°’196
Mar., 1912.. 7,555 10 ~ ~ 3600 3669 886 33^082
£4OO written off .. .. 32^2
Mar., 1913.. 5,976 6p.c.= 2400 3104 412 33,094
Profits have shrunk, and two things are mainly re-
sponsible—higher costs (the co. paid one-third more
per bale for cartage, for instance), and the drought
which cut into N. S. Wales flocks in the early part
of last year, and thus reduced the clip. For the
year to the end of June, 1910, the co. handled 72.52 G
bales; in the next 12 months, 66,464 bales. For
the past year the total was only 44,234 bales. It
seems very doubtful whether drought has been wholly
responsible for this serious shrinkage; it looks as
though the co-operative idea hasn't as firm a grip on
the wool-grower as it ought to have. In that respect
the man who grows cows and cream can give him
points. The co.’s figures, of course, are not colossal;
but they arc sound. Liabilities are comparatively
small ( £33,002), and they are more than balanced
by sundry debtors, £4o,4o4—presumably advances
against consignments. The capital and the bulk of
the reserves are in the wool and grain stores at Pyr-
mont, £70,779. The co. isn’t in a bed of violets by
any nmans; it is up against keen and not over-friendlv
competition. But the very fact that it gets the
cold eye and the hard shove ought to satisfy the
grower that there is a lot to be said in its favor.
When the people who collect the commission say
that one of their number is a jolly good fellow
every way, the man who pays the commission can
take it for "ranted that the jolly good fellow is no
particular friend of his.
# * * *
The Country Producers Selling Co.,
Ltd. (Sydney), a more or less co-operative concern,
dealing in farm and station—-chiefly station—pro-
duce :—-
Bonus to
March, Loss. Dividend. Consignors. Deficit.
1911 .. £960 £660
Profit. Reserves.
K'l2 ~ 3:90 5 p.c. = £984 £869 1077
1913 .. 6975 7} „ „ 1731 2872 3449
Besides handling wool (its consignments in the past
year reached a highly respectable 33,508 bales), this
co. operates at Homebush, where it sold 340,201
sheep and 20,867 cattle. In this respect it differs
from the other co-operative wool-selling concern in
Sydney. The size of the business shows that the in-
fant has some enthusiasts godfathers, for this is
practically only the second year of the little one’s
life-"—in the actual first year it did no more than a
trifle of live-stock business. As it goes along it will
certainly need more canital. Its assets, including
freehold and plant (£38,949), amount to £53,371,
and as its paid capital is only £23.078, it has had
to borrow £21,000 on mortgage. Later on it will
be expected to make more extensive advances against
consignments, some of which will he hung up in the
stores waiting for a better market; and at present
it can only do that business by going to its own
uncle for the money. However, matters seem to be
in good, safe hands ; and if the infant goes on as it
has started, it promises to be presently a very lusty
youth indeed.
* * " * *
The Illawarra and South Coast
Steam Navigation Co. (N.S.W.), from the time
when £21.051 profit was made from the sale of
a wharf and £24,898 was transferred to capital:—
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. seives. serves.
Mar., 1905.. £3562 7 p.c. =£2614 £948 £8448
Sept., 1905.. 2086 7 „ „ 2614 7920
Mar., 1906.. 3062 7 „ „ 2614 448 8368
Sept., 1906.. 3079 7 „ „ 2625 454 8822
Mar., 1907.. 3348 7 „ „ 2625 723 9545
Sept., 1907.. 2628 7 ~ ~ 2625 3 9548
Mar., 1908.. 2466 7 „ ~ 2625 9389
Loss.
Sept., 1908.. 1507 Nil 7882
Profit.
Mar., 1909.. 3456 7 p.c. = 2625 831 8713
Sept., 1909.. 2335 7 „ „ 2625 8423
Mar., 1910.. 2636 7 „ „ 2625 11 8434
Sept., 1910.. 972 7 „ „ 2625 6781
Loss.
Mar., 1911.. 3993 7 „ „ 2625 163
Profit.
Sept., 1911.. 2537 7 „ „ 2625 75
Mar., 1912.. 2643 7 ~ ~ 2625 18 93
Sept., 1912.. 2600 7 „ ~ 2625 68
Mar., 1913.. 2647 7 ~ „ 2625 22 90
The net profit is shown “after providing for depre-
ciation, etc.” How much is provided for deprecia-
tion and how much for “etc.” this paper doesn’t
know. And not knowing that, it doesn’t .know
much about this co. A dissection of the published
accounts doesn’t throw much light on the darkness:
Mar., ’O5. Sept., ’ll. Mar., ’l2. Mar., ’l3.
Liabilities £1,165 £19,057 £21.785 £5,506
Ship property 40,393 84,708 75,376 70,375
Liquid assets 45.863 6,684 18,923 10,531
Other assets 2,667 5,522 5,788 5,815
In the last 18 months the book value of ship property
has shrunk from £84,708 to £70,375, and that
looks like severe writng down; but, then, it may
be nothing of the sort, because, though one or two
vessels have been added to the fleet, one or two
others have been lost. On the published accounts
one would say that the co. is paying too much in
dividends, and isn’t making a proper lav-by ; on the
other hand David Fell is the chairman of directors,
and David Fell is a cautious accountant who
wouldn’t be at all likely to go on recommending
dividends that he didn’t believe were fully earned
and could be safely paid. As for the future, things
ought to look up. The South Coast is far less pro-
gressive than it ought to be, considering its natural
advantages; but it is waking up—to some extent
because this once dreadfully slumberous co. has put
a little more ginger into its management of late
years.
Australasian Wireless Co., Ltd. (Syd-
ney).—This co. was formed to buy the Australasian
rights of the Telefunken Co. The capital consisted
of 50,000 ordinary and 15,000 6 p.c. pref. shares of
£1 each. Patent rights and goodwill represent
£43,406 of this amount. The Telefunken Co. ac-
cepted payment as to £6500 in debentures, which
are still outstanding. The first year’s operations
showed a loss of £ 2860, due mainly to litigation
and consequent delays; in the subsequent eight
months to November 30, 1912, for which accounts
have only just been issued, a further loss of £937
is disclosed. Litigation continued during this
period ; but the differences over patents with the
Marconi people, who were also operating in Aus-
tralia, have been settled by an amalgamation. A
new co. is to be formed in which the Australasian
Wireless will have 70.000 £1 shares—4s,ooo it will
get for its goodwill, 20.000 (approximate! v) for
other assets in excess of JjabiUties, and 5000 will
have to be paid for in cash.'. The new co. is to take
over all the shipping and other business of both cos.,
and starts with a revenue said by the directors to
be about £lO,OOO a year. What proportion of the
profits belong;, to the shareholders in the old co. is
not. however, apparent, as the total capitalisation
of the new cov is not disclosed in this co.’s report.
The Federal Pastoral Shearing Co.—
This was formed in Sydney something over a year
ago th buy the business and assets of the Federal
Sheep Shearing Co. The nominal capital is £50.000
in 100.000 shares of 10s. each ; but only 31,312 have
been issued, and another 20,000 are to go to the old
co. to pay for goodwill ( £9500) and other trifles.
The 31.312 shares were on December 31 naid to 6s.
= £ 9394. That capital was quite inadequate, and
looked more inadequate than ever when the co.
struck trouble in its first year. The net loss for the
period was £4351, though the co. says it would have
had a profit of nearly £lO.OOO if it'hadn’t been for
wet weather. Unfortunately, the directors don’t seem
to have any plans for abolishing wet weather, so the
disastrous dampness is liable to repeat itself. Apart
from goodwill the co. has assets alleged to be worth
£19.369, and it owes no less than £13,812; so the
position is pretty depressing. Of course, the man-
agement promises economies, etc., and cheerfully in-
vites shareholders to put up more money; but the
directors will surely have to show ■ •
than these figures before thev getY 0 "a!!,'/'?. better
figures are subject to a report, fn winch' t P eVe " the
mention that they take no responsibility % dlt# L rs
sir -»«-ras , jr l s
s The Mount Leix Mining and'kao-
„ Profits. to
Sept., 1904.. 1 129,502 12A n c -£ 7s -so U "' serv es.
Mar., 1905.. 161,755 12
Sept., 1905.. 201,985 121 78 750 I’m I? 8 ’ 087
Mar., 1906.. 267,795 20 ” l'e 00 L’-fl 332 > 301
Si-pt., 1906.. 251 095 25 lol’soo lo'.'r? 485 - 38 S
Mar.. 1907.. 282,938 32} ” 205 074 1 ’«! fli 8 ’ 907
Sept., 1907.. 150.625 35 „ 11 "In - 85,236
Mar., 1908.. 141,730 -.0 ’’ IV I6B 9 79a ~ 3 ’ 590
Sept., 19 8.. 168,130 17} „ 110 :i°4 V>’ d , 5a9 > 429
Mar., 1909.. 141,683 17} 110 1 72 o’ra
Sept., 1909.. 155,081 171 ’llO3OO !«, £? 6,347
Mar., 1910.. 131,506 17- 11 094 10 fre 881 ’ 198
Sept., 1910.. 106,274 171 ” ilo 50! 67l > 534
Mar., 1911.. 100,022 12} ” ” 79 982 ®J,O67
Sept., 1911.. 83,775 12? ”80 098 gui ari’ 843
Mar., 1912.. 31,596 Nil ’i?*£X 892 > " 52
Premiums on new shares, £2l 68b‘ “ Sj’Su
SRi’SK:: “!:S g»
The last half-year has been abnormal. Twelve ,h!!
after the term started the disastrous fire broke
in the North Lyell, the source of the go's It
pyritous (fluxing) supplies; and no ore ha Fi
been broken there. The flooding of the mine 9
take long ; but it has taken seven months to get the
water out, clean up the workings, re-timber where
necessary, and prepare for attacking the mine afresh
Ihe outlay directly chargeable to the fire has
thusfar £21,283, which amount has been shown f
the table as written off. The circumstances being
unusual it seemed better to do it that way than i n g
eiude the amount with ordinary working exnens«
and exhibit a consequent loss. The indirect has’
of course, been much greater than the direct loss’
In order to hold the staff together the furnaces were
as far as possible kept running, but not being able
to draw on the rich North Lyell pyritous ore, the no
was driven back on to low-grade Tharsis material'
The half-year’s figures are therefore nothing to to
by. Normal conditions, or thereabouts, ought to
be restored by the end of next month.
Still it hasn’t been all bad luck. At the end of
the previous half-year there was 996 tons of cotmer
on hand and taken into account at £6O per ton
This copper sold at an average of £Bl 7s 39
that £21,000 was added to the past half-year’s
revenue from the previous half-year’s copper, \gainst
that, 559 tons remain on hand on March 31 This
is, as usual, valued at £6O per ton. Assuming that
£7O is got for this (present price is £6B 12s 6d
but the stuff has been dearer), £5590 will be cred-
ited to next half-year’s accounts. Deduct that amount
from £ 21,000, and there is (say) £15,500 more
profit 111 the past half-year s accounts than the half-
year actually earned. Again, the co.’s chemical works
must have done unusually well lately. No hint has
ever been given of the profit of this big enterprise
into which the co. has put £200.000; the figured
covering the copper and the superphosphate businesses
are so woven that they Vtitn’t be separated. It is of
course, intended that they shall not be separated
whatever the profit from the manure business was it
has been mopped up in the struggle to keep the
other works going during the six months.
Future profits depend mainly on the price of
copper; and the copper market is an erratic beast.
In the past 20 years it has been as low as £4O
is. 6d. for a twelve-months’ average, and as high as
£B7 Bs. 6d. In the past three years the variations
have been as much as £35, and the market doesn't
seem very robust at present. As for ore supply, there
is no need to worrv about that just vet. It 'isn’t as
rich as it was ; but there is plenty of it. This little
list shows the quantity treated since the present co.
took over in August, 1903, and the present esti-
mated reserves:—
Ore Ore
treated. reserves.
Mount Lvell . . 2,382,486 tons 2,295,232 tons
North Lvell . . 1,071,981 tons 1,078,384 tons
Bes-Oes the ore in these mines there is the recently-
purchased Comstock to draw on and the metal-bear-
mg fluxes of the Tharsis group. Of the value of the
ore in the two principal mines, official data afford
this comparison as to the Lyell:—
Copper, Silver, Gold,
p.c. Oz. Oz.
Average since 1903.. 0.82 1.94 006
March, 1911 .. 0.60 2.0 0.043
March, 1912 .. .. 0.54 1.93 0.041
March. 1913 . . . . 0.46 1.86 0.037
Reserves . . . . 0 53 1.96 0.028
And as to the North Lyell:—
Copper, Silver, Gold,
p.c. Oz. Oz.
Average since 1903 . . 6.07 1.53 0.0045
Half-year's average . . 5.47 1.06 0.003
Average of reserves . . 6.00 1.33 0.005
The ore to be mined is thus distinctly poorer than
the average of what has been mined ; and costs have
also risen. On the latter point, however, it is not
worth while saying anything based on the past half-
year’s results. A hydro-electric installation is nos*
under way to reduce costs.
Since the present co. took over in 1903 it has
paid £1,770,000 (295. 6d. per share) in dividends,
and its surplus of liquid assets on March 31 was
£494,519. Given equal markets, the ore left to be
worked seems as nearlv as possible equal in value to
the ore extracted ; and the co. has, in addition, the
super, works going for it. 1
The East Greta Coal Mining Co
(N.S.W.) ;
Writ-
ten To Re- le-
Profits. Dividends. Off. sprves. serves.
Sept,, 1905.. £8,427 sp.c. = £3.185 £2000 £3,242 £14,907
Mar., 1906.. 3,528 5,, ~ 3.554 UKX) 13,971
Sept., 1906.. 2,368 5,, ~ 3,750 -- 12,589
Mar., 1907.. 6,666 5 „ ~ 3.750 2000 916 13,596
Sent., 1907.. 14.916 10 ~ ~ 7,500 7000 41« 13,921
Mar., 1908.. 19.782 10 ~ ~ 7,500 6500 5,782 19,793
Sept., 1908.. 16,829 10 ~ ~ 7,500 2590 6,829 26,632
Mar , 1909.. 9.510 10 ~ „ 7,500 2000 10 26,542
Sept., 1909.. 9,130 10 ~ ~ 7,500 1630 26,542
Loss.
Mar., 1910.. 3,073 Nil - - 23 - 4b9
Profits.
Sept., 1910.. 26,263 15p.c. = 11,250 4099 11,013 34,482
Mar., 1911.. 12,665 1 5 ~ ~ 11,250 1,415 35,897
Sept., 1911.. 12,281 10 „ ~ 7,500 4,781 40,6,8
Mar., 1912.. 8,125 10 ~ „ 7,590 3590 37,803
Sept., 1912.. 15,-’9O 1 0 ~ ~ 7,500 3050 4,740 42,543
Mar., 1913.. 17,694 10 ~ ~ 7,500 3205 6,959 49,592
This co. has three strings to its bow —the East Greta
freehold, the Stanford Merthvr leasehold and the Lay
Greta railway ; and all of them are good. It doesn 1
pay anything extraordinary in the way of dividends,
but it is working itself into a strong position, an
with ordinary luck it will do much more in Itinw-
The visible reserves have been growing pretti tas ,
but probably even they don’t put the best face
things. Take another comparison:—
Mar. 1908. Mar., 1913.
Total liabilities £28,242 £45,938 Inc. £h,W>
Assets.
Mines, plant, etc. 180,919 225,7,5 h'C. 4»,,.
Cash .. .. 9,667 -
Sundry debtors.. 22,258 27,165 Inc.
In that little list, £45,756 is shown as havinr l *™
put into mines, plant, etc. But meantime it
tain that large sums have been written off P 1
probably, also, off the value of the mines, jv
course, means that the actual outlay out o P


GOOD
Dividends
Interest
INVESTMENTS that embody all the elements
necessary to Soundness and Productiveness.
Unless we are assured, after the most searching
and thorough investigation, of the earning capac-
ity of every investment, business organisation and
enterprise brought to us —we do not handle 1 .
CONSULT US on any sound, healthy business
proposition you may have. We will afford you
the information we have at our disposal.
DEPARTMENTS: Promotion of Industries, Pub-
lic D Companies Trust Estates, Security Depart-
ment Xetarial Dept., Real Estate, Local and
Foreign Agencies, etc.
Authorised Capital £500,000.
J. Earle Hermann Ltd.,
Sydney, Melbourne and London.
Head Office-Third Floor, Yaralla
Chambers, 109 Pitt St., Sydney.
London Office:
199 Winchester House,
Old Broad Street, E.C.
he »tt
Established 34 Years.
THE Trustees, Executor;
and Agency Co., ltd..
412 Collins St., Melbourne.
The Company acts as
EXECUTOR,
ADMINISTRATOR,
TRUSTEE,
AGENT.
Estates Administered Exceed £25.000,000.
Please call or write for Pamphlet.
JAS. BORKOWMAN, General Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Manager.
IP I 1 B ' Melbourne, for particulars concerning
SnS r;;;;.
A great mistake, when erecting new works or re-
arranging old ones, is often made in constructing the
building and installing machinery ere looking round
for means of transport of the raw material, halt-
manufactured and finished goods. Messrs. Ado!
Blei chert and Co., of London, have issued various
catalogues and leaflets, illustrating and describing a
few of the many transport systems and plants which
they have supplied, and which show the solution ot
the transport question and the advantages of em-
ploying such appliances. W. and J. Lempnere,
Melbourne and Sydney, are the Australian representa-
tives, and would be pleased to hear from those in-
terested. A specially trained engineer is retained to
consult and advise.*
* * * *
Mine managers and engineers contemplating Re-
inforced Concrete construction should write for par-
ticulars of the Indented Steel Bar, which gives the
greatest bond, and is the strongest and cheapest re-
inforcement on the market. Used by the N. S.
Wales and Queensland railways for bridges, by the
Sydney Water and Sewerage Board for elevated re-
servoirs, by the N. S. Wales Government Architect,
and by all'the leading architects. Should guaranteed
designs be required for concrete structures, our ex-
pert will be pleased to furnish plans and descrip-
tions. Apply, Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.*
In all smithing work high-class iron can be more
safely manipulated at varying temperatures than
steel or ordinary iron. It is for this reason that
Best Yorkshire Farnley Iron is preferred by engi-
neers, where toughness, great strength and close
grain are needed. Whatever the specification, Iron
of the Farnley type does not vary, but is simply the
best that can be produced from what is really
wrought iron. “Farnley” Bars of all sections sup-
plied from local stock bv Sole Agents of the Farnley
iron Comp., Ltd. Bell's Asbestos, Ltd., 315 Kent
Street, Sydney.*
From June to September the Bacchus Marsh Shire
Council (Vic.) crushed and spread 3000 cub. yards
of road metal, at an average cost of 2s. 6d. per cub.
yard, and the cost of the spalls per cub. yard aver-
aged 2s. 4d., making a total cost of 4s. lOd. per cub.
yard, broken and spread. Their last contract under
the handbreaking system amounted to 6s. 3d. per
cub. yard stacked on the roadside, and spreading Is. ;
total, 7s. 3d., as against 4s. lOd. — a saving of 2s. 5d.
per cub. yard. This result was obtained by using a
Bigelow i6in. x 9in. Patent Stonecrusher, and the
Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
manufacturers of these breakers.* [2
Extract from The Insurance Recoro, London, Sep-
tember 22, 1911 : “To have written insurances for
£5.550,000 (Ordinary, Industrial and Accident) in
a year whicn was marked by the keenest competition
from beginning to end, is an achievement which
proves that the Colonial Mutual is a force to be
reckoned with in every sphere to which its influence
extends.’*
* * * *
PIONEER WOOD PIPE is being used by mining
cos. all over Australia. It is specially suited to cold
climates, as the elasticity of the wood prevents the
pipe from bursting when frozen. The Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., head office, 57 York Street,
Sydney.*
For all situations where water is scarce, Deane and
Beale’s consummate. Evaporative Condensers are
efficient and economical for condensmg exhaust
steam, and show a saving in fuel and water consump-
tion from 30 to 50 p c. See p. 3. Australian
representatives: Haes and Eggers, Ltd., 163 Clarence
Street, Sydney.*
Mr. R. O’Haree, Glen Innes, writes: “I have much
pleasure in advising you that I have now used the
B.H.P. Hornsby Stationary Oil Engine for the
past eight seasons, shearing over 130,000 sheep, some
of the shearers tallying over 200 sheep per day, the
average 168| per man. During the whole time I
have had the engine in use it has never given the
sl ghtest trouble, and not a moment has been lost,
the shearers stating that they have never experienced
such a smooth-running engine.”—R. HORNSBY &
SONS, Ltd., Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane.*
Harringtons Ltd. are now in a position to quote
the lowest fees for all kinds of assay, analytical and
metallurgical work. Expert advice on ore treatment,
smelting, bullion, refining, etc. This firm have now
a most up-to-date and completely fitted laboratory,
directed by a first-class analyst from Johnson and
Sons, London, assayers to the Bank of England,
H.M. Mint, The Council of India, etc. Any work of
the above nature entrusted to this reliable firm of
photographic manufacturers will receive immediate
and prompt attention. For full particulars and
prices apply to Harringtons, Ltd., 380 George Street,
Sydney.*
J. W. STYLES & SON, Machinery Auctioneer,
Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 361 Collins
Street (main entrance), Melbourne. (J. W. Styles,
24 years expert salesman.)*
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 163 King Street, Syd-
ney.* t 2
* * * *
Messrs. Mephan Ferguson Proprietary, Limited, of
Footscray, Victoria, have secured the contract for
the supply of steel pipes required in connection with
the duplication of the Bombay Water Supply. The
contract amounts to over £226,000, and the pipes
to be used are of the locking bar type, of which Mr.
Mephan Ferguson is the inventor and patentee.
Engineers will be interested to note that this Aus-
tralian invention has been adopted in preference to
other classes of piping, after critical and searching
enquiries as to the merits of the various types of
water pipes made in the world. It is worthy of
note that all machinery required to carry out this
work has been designed and manufactured at the
firm’s Footscray Engineering Works, and will be
shipped to Bombay, where the pipes will be manu-
factured.*
Messrs. Babcock k Wilcox, Ltd., have received
the order for the supply of all the steam generating
plant and accessories for the electrification of the
Victorian Government Railways, The acceptance of
this firm’s tender was strongly recommended by Mr.
Merz, the English expert. The contract amounts to
£258,000.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Ioluson & Co.. 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Vdelaide. Thirty years’ practice. AVnte us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
To follow the HORNSBY OIL ENGINE would be
to travel round the world. It lights up the Old
World where the Pharaohs held their court. Its
light greets the traveller to the New World from
the gigantic statue of Liberty at the entrance of
New York Harbor.' It is also supplying the lights
on the newest and finest battleships of the British
Navy. R. HORNSBY & SONS, Ltd., Melbourne,
Sydney and Brisbane.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
has been much greater than £45,756. Hard writing-
down was so much the policy of the management that
just over five years ago the East Greta stood in the
books at only £10,500 and the Stanford Merthyr at
£9OOO. Since then various items have been lumped
together, and it is impossible to say what further writ-
ing-down has been done: it may be only the amounts
shown in the first table as written-off, or it may be
more. Even those amounts total £34,000 in the past
six years. Altogether, the accounts leave a sweet
taste in the mouth ; and the steady growth of the coal
business in that district, as the Newcastle coastal
mines gradually peter out, adds to the value of the
important railway asset.
* * * *
Though an extra i p.e. is now offered,
Maoriland Savings Bank deposits are £57,000 less
than they were at March 31, 1912. It shows that
the people are compelled to draw on their reserves,
despite Massey’s recent assertion that Maoriland was
never more prosperous. The assertion, as usual, was
made on the eve of Maoriland’s customary pilgrim-
age to Cohen. #
Reference was made here a few weeks
ago to the action of the S. Aus. Taxation Depart-
ment in claiming income tax on money received by
way of premium on a new share issue. Ihe claim
was allowed by the lower court; but in a case de-
fended bv the Bank of Adelaide it was upset on
appeal to the Full Court; and the Commissioner,
though he gave notice of appeal to the High Court,
has now abandoned the suit and refunded the bank
its £2500. S. Australia has thus come sensibly into
line with Queensland and other States.
* * * *
Because, for one thing, “it is detrimental
to a co. to show on the face of the balance-sheet that
it is not able to pay dividends,” the directors of the
unhappy Emu Bay Railway Co. are asking pref.
shareholders to forego half the arrears of dividend
payable to them, and (except where the amount owing
is'less than £10) to take a 6 p.c. funded certificate
payable in 1923 or earlier at the co.’s option.
Amounts under £lO and fractions of a pound it is
proposed to pay in cash. The pref. shares are entitled
to a first 8 p.c. out of profits, half of it being cumu-
lative, and the accumulations amount to £29,rfcsz.
The scheme is good enough. For their arrears the
pref. holders get a negotiable security, and, the old
arrears being nominally wiped out, they have at
least a chance of getting a div. up to 8 p.c. forth-
with. That div. could have been paid out of last
year’s profit, which was over £lO,OOO. And, though
thev are still miles awav from a dividend, the wiping
out of about £15,000 of debt will of course put ordi-
naries a few yards nearer their goal. The Payment
of 6 p.c. on a new interest-bearing debt of ilo.uuu
will certainly wipe out some of that advantage, but
it looks as though they should still gain something.
Broken Hill Block 14, the first pup of the
B H. Prop.'s litter, was also the first to come to
grief The Broken Hill ore-body is like the legs of
an upside-down V. At the apex, near the Block 14
boundary of the B. H. Prop., the rich ore was r ght
at the surface. Unfortunately also the leg was rather
thin there, and the co. didn’t take long to get
through the payable stuff. For several years past it
has been poking around to find overlooked patches of
carbonate ore—the class that occurs above the old
water level. Last half-year working account showed
a profit of £6578, and interest and trifles brought
the total to £8719. Out of that and the money
in hand £l5OO was paid on the 10 p.c. pref. shares
and £15,000 on the whole 200,000 shares (Is. 6d.
per share). The prefs. come in twice; they get
their own exclusive 10 p.c. and then share equally
with the ordinaries. Nobody knows how much car-
bonate ore is left. There are pract callv no re-
serves • the co. just lives from hand to mouth, and
the further it goes the more expensive it is to get
the stuff. Of sulphides there are, according to the
latest estimate, 220,000 tons. In 1911 the Board
thought hard over its problem. It had a mill once,
but the works were idle for so long that they had
become useless (they never were muoh good),
and it would take all the profit the co. could make
out of its 220,000 tons to pay fot a new plant, bo
it decided to sell its ore, and made a contract with
the Junct on North. The latter co. also took its
slimes and naid for them. Unfortunately the Junc-
tion North has troubles of its own, and hasn t been
able to chew up ore very fast. The Bulletin will
not make a guess as to the cost of getting the Block
14 ore out; a good deal of it is in old stopes that
are in a bad wav. Some of it they will perhaps
never get out at all. From the two sources a few
uncertain thousands may be expected every six months
for several years to come; but nobody should trust
to that. The only sure thing is the £75,000 cash
reserves; this and a few trifles bring the surplus
of liquid assets to £81,502. #
Though formed at the latter end of 1911
the Block 14 Torrington Co. hasn t started produc-
tion vet. Everything has been hung up awaiting an
electrical plant'from Sweden. A start, should how-
ever be made next month. The co. is in 150,000
shares. The old Torrington Co. got £5OOO cash
and 27,000 fullv-paid £1 shares for the Property.
B H. Block 14 (in 200.000 shares) paid a bonus
of 2s. 7d. ner share, which provided the purchase
money and gave £20,000 of working capital Block
14 shareholders got one share in the Tomngton o.
for everv two in the Broken Hill Co. Another
23,000 shares (making 150,000 altogether) were held
in reserve, but have since been issued as prefs., the
outlay being, as usual, in excess of the estimate.
The mine is near Deepwater (N.S.W.), and is to be
worked for wolfram and bismuth. There is some
cobalt (which is an impuritv) in the ore in one of
the properties, but manager Rodda Hunks he knows
how P to get rid of it. The plant is designed to treat
750 to 1000 tons of ore per week, and the quantity
already opened up is estimated at 138,225 tons.
Profits, .of course, are expected ; but the business is
to a great extent experimental. * ,
If B. H. Junction North had as good a
supply of ore as of excuses it would be all right.
In the past half-year l tigation with its neighbor
(which it has got the worst of so far) took the
officers away from the lnine ; hence the poor results.
Working account showed a balance of only £ 3130
—a mighty small purse to show for an extraction
of 43.158 tons of the co.’s ore, not to mention pui-
chased slimes and other products.
Tiie Bulletin has received from Mr.
.T E. Scantlebury a writ asking for £5OOO damages
for statements which he alleges this paper, on May
8 made about him and his
Without withdrawing one word of what was said
about the methods by which the Ardlethan boom was
engineered, it need now only be remarked that the
statements’did not refer to Mr. Scantlebury For he
rest. Mr. Scantlebury's connection with the mining
news of this paper having been several times referred
to of late, this opportunity is taken to say that he
has had nothing whatever to do with the “Wild
Cat,” or any other part of The Bulletin, for the
past 10, or more, years. #
Mount Bulga (N.S.W.), with its one
blast furnace, is embarking on a copper-smelting
campaign which may last somewhere about a
month. No attention has been paid to mine develop-
ment, and most, if not all, of the ore to be treated
has been at grass for some time. With the disposal
of this- lot the co.’s end seems near.
* * * *
The Y Water Extended, which attacked
the Graveyard Deep Lead at Emmaville (N.S.W.)
with a few hundreds of working capital, has gone the
way of many similar too-optimistic cos., and appears
to be down and out. Beyond proving that without
doubt a lead does extend under their property, which
was well enough known before, little has been done.
The water beat the pump at 130 ft., so the shaft
stopped at that. #
At Lionsville, on the Upper Clarence
goldfield (N.S.W.), some rich yields were obtained in
the early days, and recent crushings show that all the
good stone was not removed. The first workings
were very primitive, and the manner in which the
present holders are dealing with the problem is very
little better. The district is worth the attention of
people with some money to spend.
* * * *
The Democrat, Cootamundra (N.S.W.), is
getting 12dwt. gold per ton from a big open cut, and
if this represents an average for the full width of
No. 1 (4Oft. wide) and No. 2 (16ft.), the show
should pay dividends. For the fortnight 190 tons
returned 119 oz. smelted gold. As usual in the Coota-
mundra-Temora-Wyalong district, there is plenty of
mineral about, and the manager intends to save con-
centrates, and is adding a Wilfley table.
* * * *
In its past half-year Cope’s Creek
(N.S.W.) paid £2700 (Is. 6d. per share) in divs.,
though profits were only £2140. The output was 39
tons tin concentrates, so the profit averaged £54 per
ton—nothing to give three cheers about, considering
the boom price of the metal. The outlook would be
much healthier if new dredging areas were available.
Cope’s Creek, among the rest, has tried its best to
acquire new ground, but it is difficult to get, and
what is obtainable is poor. #
Divs. amounting to £142,986 were paid
by Westralian gold-mining cos. in April, making a
total of £305,679 since Jan. 1, and £23,198,194
since the industry started. Of this sum Great
Boulder is credited with £4,022,423, Golden Horse-
shoe £3,075,000, Ivanhoe £3,063,750, Orova-Brown
Hill £2,157,241, Great Fingall £1,734,375, Lake
View £1,493,000, Perseverance £1,426,130, Kal-
gurli £1,252,500, and Sons of Gwalia £916,000. To
date no less than £25,500.000 has been dug out of
the narrow strip worked by the Great
Boulder, Horseshoe and Ivanhoe, and the value of ore
still in sight runs* into millions. Boulder’s days,
however, are apparently numbered.
* * * *
Kalgoorlie managers are greatly annoyed
at the administration of the Act which prohibits the
employment of the unintelligible. foreigner under-
ground. The principal complaint is that foreigners,
mostly Dagoes, who pass one inspector are turned
down when another inspector comes along, and prose-
cutions follow. The issue of certificates after exam-
ination is accordingly suggested. Unless something
is done in this direction the managers threaten to
get rid of every alien employed on the mines; but
as that would knock some of the outputs end-ways,
it may be regarded for the present as merely hot
air. „ *
Last year Boulder Perseverance (W.A.)
treated 234,636 tons for £270,434. The net pro-
fit, after writing off cost of development and depre-
ciation, amounted to £25,500, which is £23,000
short of the 1911 figures. Costs are a shade higher
at 18s. 3d. The co. returns to the dividend list after
an absence of three years with a distribution of
£34 986 (6d. per share) ; but as the balance-sheet
only discloses a cash surplus of £23,500, or £11,500
less than required to meet this extravagance, it looks
as if there is a tendency on the part of those in
control to make a splash. Underground work has
been chiefly confined to the development of two new
ore bodies and a general prospecting of the old work-
ings. The latter operation, as already stated, has led
to a number of payable discoveries. One of the new
ore bodies has been proved continuous from the
200 ft. to the 1100 ft. level, exposing an estimated
reserve of 52,300 tons worth 5.27dwt , while another
is said to have so far added 26,000 tons of 6.Bdwt.
ore to the reserves exposed between the 200 ft. and
500 ft levels. Compared with 1911, however, the
total ore in sight—49B,ooo tons, worth 245. 9d
shows a decrease of 16,400 tons in quantity and 6d.
in value. The “probable” reserves are estimated at
857,000 tons, or 49,000 tons more than for the pre-
vious vear, but the average value (235.) is Bd. less.
And with these low averages to work on, a drop of
6d or Bd. is serious. As for the lodes which have
hitherto been the backbone of the property, the sad
news is gently broken to shareholders that all efforts
to find payable values in depth have failed.
* * * *
Sand Queen (W.A.) has decided to pay
another 6d. dividend (the 12th), which brings its
total up to £lB,OOO. An additional five stamps are
being added to the mill to enable the co. to do better
still From 30,000 to 40.000 tons of 70s. to 80s.
ore is in sight, and as only £l5OO is needed to pay
a 6d. div'dend, the co. shouldn’t have much trouble
to keep that going on 1500 tons a month. *
Telluride has been struck on the top of
the sulphide zone in the Associated Northern Co s
Ora Banda mine. So far onlv a little, but that httle
carries as high percentage of gold as the best of the
Kalgoorlie stuff. Shares haven t as yet moved up
much but if in further sinking as good values are
found, the market will soar Meantime, stress is
being laid on the big capital expenditure that the
co. will soon have to incur to treat the sulphides,
and on the probability of profits easing off for a
while. There is verv little in the first bear story,
as £l5 000 to £20,000 would cover the cost ot
plant necessarv to treat 100 tons of sulphide ore a
dav in addition to the present oxidised output of
300 tons As regards future profits, there mav be a
temporary falling-off compared with the first three
months of tlrs year, as the oxidised ore is poor °nt-
side the rich shoot at the No. 4 level. Indeed,
apart from this enrichment the grade of the mine is
barely £l. „ *
* *
London is having a hard try to ™ ake
Golden Horseshoe “bears’” sit up Local brokers
have received cabled warning that the stock is
already heavilv oversold, and that, owing to short-
age of scr : p,” the carrying over of shorted ac-
counts from one settlement to another cannot be
guaranteed at present. The market price of the Pro-
perty now stands at nearly a million sterling and
to pav divs. equal to five vears purchase the co.
would have to earn £200.000 p.a. for shareholders
The position is that the ’Shoe is far in debt and
even if all the management s geese turn out to b
swans, it hasn’t a hope for some time to come, if
then, of earning half of £200,000.
* * * *
Queensland’s score for minerals other than
gold was last year 28 p.c. better than the previous
best. But gold is on the down grade. The best year
was 1900, and 1903 was nearly as good. Since then
the output has dropped from 668,5460 z. to 347,9460 z.
last year, when it reached the lowest for a quarter of
a century. And this year is shaping no better. The
output for the four months is only 88,1530 z., as
against 109,7890 z. in the corresponding third of
1912.
* * *
“Gouger”: Helped by the rainy season,
the Annan River (N.Q.) has had three nozzles going.
Results of latest runs: —
Face. Hours. Dirt sluiced. Oxide.
Daly’s . . 586 7500 cub. yd. 140 cwt.
Collingwood .. 918 9000 ~ 120 „
Glass’s . . 792 4000 „ 60 „
Costs appear to run to about per yard; so
there is good money in it at present. Three tons
from 4000yds. means 18d. per yd., taking oxide at
the very low figure of £lOO per ton. The New
Queensland Tin Sluicing Co. has taken over the Home
Rule. First return, 28cwt. for the quarter from
6000yds. ; this means, say, 7id. per yard, which
isn’t anything to jubilate over. Northey, represent-
ing southern people, is boring Lode Hill. Last two
months’ work at this claim: February, 30cwt. ;
March, 70cwt. Elliott and Skirving own the prop-
erty: the former says £5OOO for his share; Skirving
hasn’t mentioned a price. The Roaring Meg has been
looking up a bit. Other sluicers are doing from
fair to tucker; most of them, however, would like
to meet some nice person from the South with a
thousand or two in his pockets. And if the nice
person had money enough to work some of the
ground, say, in the Bloomfield scrub, on a big scale,
he might do very well indeed. Meantime one
Pocock has taken up a dredging area on the Annan,
and is alleged to have got nice persons in London
to back him to the extent of £40,000.
Kelly’s Queen Block, Charters Towers,
not having done much good with the St. George reef,
intends to ooen a drive on the St. Patrick reef,
intersected in driving the crosscut at the 657 ft.
level. Kelly’s has had a brilliant past, for since the
reef of that name was struck £195,000 has been paid
in dividends.
* * *
Blair Athol colliery, back of Rockhamp-
ton (Q.), has just finished its best half-year to date.
It sold 44.641 tons of coal, made a profit of £5774
after providing for depreciation, and paid £5OOO in
d'vs. (Is. per share). And the future looks good:
“Not only have all contracts been renewed on ex-
piry, but a greater volume of business has been
secured with smaller consumers.” The co. has an
idea that the time is ripe for it to go into the coke
business, and small narcels of coal have been sent
around to find out the right sort of ovens. There
ought to be a good market for the product among
the copper-producers of the North.
* * * *
Grcbin. the exnert who went to Papua to
bore for the British New Guinea Development Co.,
has reported that he expects to strike oil shortly.
In Grebin’s memo, to Judge Murray he said there was
a great escape of gas, and boring might have to be
abandoned while a reservoir w’as constructed. This
looks like business, as the making of an oil basin to
receive the outflow of a “gusher” is recognised as the
penultimate stage on the way to striking oil. The
born°‘ has been conducted in grey slate, impregnated
with oil, and this gives hone that the grey shales
of North Queensland and the Northern Territory,
which occur amongst the sedimentary rocks, will also
supply “rock-oil” at a depth. C. H. Locke is also
boring at Valaila for the Federal Government; he
has a modern drilling rig. built in Melbourne, and
capable of going down to 3000 ft. Geological indica-
tions being the same in the Northern Territory as m
the western division of Papua, there is much hope
for oil prospectors in the former place. Already
four Melbourne cos. have been formed to bore at the
Victoria River, and a fifth co., partly subscribed in
Svdnev, is on the stocks readv for launching. Last
vear over £1.000.000 was paid for mineral oil im-
ported into Australia, so there is a good market
waiting to receive the local product. #
Gippsland Copper and Platinum is in
trouble again over its finances, and with none of
the Mount Lvell crowd to help, only a crawl can be
done towards putting the co. into a decent position.
After its second advent the co. smelted 1291 tons,
and got matte carrying 36 tons copper, 41oz. gold.
1270 z. platinum, and 5190 z. silver, the value on
rails beins? £3775. These metals should have left
profits, but without plant to turn out high-grade
matte, the result was poor. Cadwallader ami San-
towski. who now command mining and smelting
respectively, are both confident. Their programme to
get things going involves practically the raising ot
another £5OOO, against which call-monev owing and
Government grant pronr'sed represent £2BOO. Poor
shareholders have to make up the difference, and are
promised, in return, that with plant remodeled,
profits of £4O a day can be earned. For how
long’ They mention that 12.000 tons of ore are
available. Surely there is more than 12.000 tons
in sight. If not, there isn’t enough to justify much
expenditure on plant. *
The new Gitsham gold-extraction process,
referred to last week, consists mainly in the use of
hvdrocvanic acid as a solvent. This solvent, used
up to a 0.1 p.c. strength, has a selective action tor
gold and silver only, and is said to have been suc-
cessfully applied to ores containing copper, arsenic,
bismuth and antimony—all minerals detrimental to
the ordinary cyanide process. Gitsham, the in
ventor, and T. H. Davies, the chemist—the latter a
Ballarat School of Mines graduate and a son of the
long-time manager of the Tasmanian Gold Mine—-
left Sydney last week for London via America to
present the invention to a few millionaires and
others who want to see more of it. #
Kaw Joo Tok (meaning big fat man),
Kaw Joo Sin (meaning little thin man), and Kaw
100 Teddv Miles (meaning small, keen man) have
Cul l lie Deebook «. » »»« g
SSSo 3 jir" r Se*;h “e“S. t.k! «,000. whl.e
"20 000 £1 shares are reserved (probably under option
to the aforesaid Kaws). The moment it was known
that Kaw Jam Jones and Kaw Jam Pareymar
____ it with Kaw Joo Mites, the 38,000
Tares were over applied for. This is the group that
floated the Tongkah Harbor Co., and on the first
lfa e w tO Jo 4 o°Tok’“e e ; S to Syd-
AVr £«
years as managing director—which seems a
pretty high wage to pay “rB imder
a tin show in Siam, ine mice
J 4 -Ur, oannft £1 shares (for a fee ot uuu;,
wrote the 38,000 2OO 0 00 Chinese
fn d thTtown of Penang alone who live on tin shares,
a a fTch' and rice Kaw Jack Wharton made the
S“S «tewl*n h, .nd D«™ <g**«*-
& S then look anything
Tongkah has since produced.


CIMRLES
Heidsieck's
Vintage 1906
CH/IMffi
HE PLUS DLTR/1
M
Farmer’s
Hairdressing Rooms
for Ladies.
To the woman who values her physical
attractions, the Ladies’ Hairdressing Rooms
at . r armcr s will prove in every way
delightful. The handsomely-furnished rooms
are fully-equipped with the most up-to-date
appliances, and supervised by experts
assisted by a. thoroughly experienced staff.’
the rooms include sections devoted to
Hairdressing, Hairwork, Shampooing, Singe-
ing, Scalp and Face Massage, Manicuring,
Chiropody, etc.
Hairdressing appointments for Social
Functions can be made by telephone or letter.
ENTRANCE FROM MILLINERY SALON;
THIRD FLOOR—PITT STREET.
FARMER’S SYDNEY
Pitt, Market and George Streets.
BUCHANAN’S
Black White
% S'
A GRAND SPIRIT
Black & White ” is indeed a “ grand spirit.”
Matured for years in Scotland before shipment.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, May 19, 1913.
My Dear Arini, —
The late Rev. Father Keating, S.J., rector
of the Riverview College for boys, was noted
for bis charming manners in an only lesser
degree than for his learning. He was a
bright and vivid personality. The casual
visitor on a college sports day generally
came across Father Keating surrounded by
a group of small boys eager to introduce
their adult friends to the Chesterfieldian
chief. Cerebral trouble caused the Light to
flicker out suddenly.
The rain rained heavily on two very wet
foundation stones of the new Common-
wealth Bank the other morning. Prime
Minister Fisher, under the drip of a
streaming umbrella which shed its superflu-
ous water down his back hair, declared one
stone to be well and truly laid. Denison
Miller, as over-lord of the new structure,
seized the second gold trowel and gave stone
number two a hearty slap. The crowd on
the. pavement then squeezed the rainfall out
of its ears, so that the figures might trickle
through without being waterlogged while
the financial Miller trotted out a healthy
family of statistics.
Governor Strickland had the wet end of
the deluge for his first visit to Newcastle
last week. The snail-like ways of the War
Office are moss-grown with the legend,
“Look before you creep.” His Ex. appears
to have made a subtle reference to the fact
that the W .O. turns like an elephant and
falls asleep when it is half-way round. “That
the president of this association [the New-
castle Naval and Military] had been able
to get this recognition [a medal for J. O.
Christianson] from the War Office is a
matter for congratulation.” What will hap-
pen to Bull’s kingdom if the Enemy in
Europe chances to invade the West End out
of the season, while the W.O. authorities
are shooting grouse in Scotland, no man
knoweth.
Major-General Godley (M.L.), who is off
to the Aldershot manoeuvres via ’Frisco, is a
is a smart, soldierly-looking man. He is,
groomed to show the sunny side of 40 to
an. inquisitive world which loves to pry into
weights and ages. According to an M.L.
authority now in this township, Godley has
been one of the rare importations which
the Dominion hasn’t wanted to revoke. He
has placed a firm right-hand on the de-
faulting cadet, and means to drag Khaki
junior up to a state of efficiency in spite of
the. occasional wails of that youngster’s
timid Papa and Mamma. Papa, by the
way, is just as much in revolt in MX. as
he is occasionally in this State. Long let-
ters from “Indignant Father” float through
the M.L. press when Sonny has damped
the soles of his boots on a showery day.
Sydney’s long and rather dull list of
women’s clubs has recently had a thirteenth
club added to its social round. Founded on
the 13th of the month by 13 damsels in the
year T 3, it meets in Eirene Mort’s studio.
Whether the 13 club maidens walk under a
ladder, spill salt, cross their dinner knives,
and smash a mirror as a regular habit, my
correspondent forgets to mention.
A recent English mail brought details of
the passing of the witty, kindly Lady Doro-
thy .Nevill at the age of 87. Bronchitis
carried her off this mortal scene, much
against her will, for she loved life, and was
cheerful and full of hope to the last. A
veritable Mark Tapley, she said of her
family that there had only been one serious
Walpole, her cousin Spencer. This unusually
solid member of an erratic, light-hearted
and rather frivolous race traced his more
even mental balance to the lucky circum-
stance of his great-grandfather having
married a Dutchwoman.
Lady Dolly was so free from the snob-
bery of the Yellowplush school that she
cared nothing for who people were, but
a great deal for what they were. Her house
in Charles-street, Mayfair, was the meet-
mg-ground of all sorts and sizes of person-
ages, who might be anything so long as they
were clever and amusing. A tireless corres-
pondent, she was “Your affectionate cousin,
Dolly,’ to an interminable list of relatives.
A letter written to her kinsman, Chamber-
lain Nevill. about three weeks before her
death, contained the same sprightly com-
ments on men and affairs as characterise
those portions of her books which have not
been too much “edited” by the more ponder-
ous pen of her son Ralph. If Lord Dick’s
grandfather hadn’t thoughtlessly married
dnd left two sons, Lady Dolly’s husband,
Reginald Nevill, for many years heir-pre-
sumptive to the Abergavenny estates, would
have snatched the glittering label “Mar-
quis.”
Of Orrock, the noted English collector,
whose death of old age was cabled the other
day, Lady Dolly tells many quaint stories.
His taste for “wormy” chairs brought down
the ridicule of many of his less aesthetic
acquaintances. So long as thev were Shera-
ton and Chippendale, the enthusiastic Or-
rock cared nothing for their unhygienic legs.
You may laugh,” lie used to say, “but I
shall laugh' louder when my wormy chairs
shall be appreciated at their proper worth
The worm holes can he stopped—everyone
to his taste! Some people like high game. I
like high chairs.” Two Elizabethan chairs
which Orroek had pounced on at 30s.
apiece he soon sold for several pounds.
f 1 ° m jL/ ea V s late . r he re-purchased the best
tor ±.50 almost immediately selling it again
tor iloO. Orroek, before he began his
successful attack on the English horsehair-
chair epoch, had christened himself “The
Voice Crying in the Wilderness of British
Art.
The late Caspar Bruer Wirth. who made
a pile in U.S., has left £4.000,000 or there-
abouts, to his relatives. Philip Wirth, who
owns the circus, gets a mere £200,000 out
of this heap of jrold dust. His cousin,
another Philip Wirth, is likely to bank
about £1,000,000 as his share of this golden
blizzard. At least, that is how the tale ran
last week. But so many wondrous fortunes
that look well in the will resolve themselves,
when the property is overhauled, into a
moth-eaten tenement and * trunkful of dead
securities. A man on the staff of this paper
has half-promised to leave me 1000 Mount
Cannindah copper shares and a dead mine
(it died, he says, 30 years ago) in the centre
of Otago. But I don’t suppose I’ll be able to
buy myself an extra dress out of the pro-
ceeds.
The useful Victor Hood lias departed
hence for more than a few weeks, as at first
suggested. As Private Secretary to Gov-
ernor Strickland, he would have been
mighty helpful to a perfectly new Governor
with an otherwise raw staff. The sudden
Something that has fallen like a thousand
bricks _on the Hon. Victor’s desire to re-
main in Sydney, is a matter of surmise.
He loves Australia, and has such a firm de-
termination to dodge the English climate
that, presumably, he only wants pressing to
become a Commonwealth citizen. Mr.
Hood has seen more of this continent than
many of its native born. He had some
earlier interests in North Queensland
(1894-3900). Wandered off to South
Australia to join the staff of Gover-
nor Ee Hunte (1903-1906). Left the
chain for a trip to Colombo, and hurried
back to Victoria to shadow the steps of
Governor Talbot. Later, he tracked the in-
vited guest to the Carmichael doorstep, and
spent a brief interlude on the staff of Gov-
ernor Fuller. A motor smash terminated
his look-in on the G.-G. Denman regime.
Victor Hood is, therefore, better up in the
geogranhy of this sunlit-patch than the
absentee native-born who love to pose as
Londoners.
Miss Mabel Kingsmill, a North Sydney
girl who went off for a trip with Mr. and
Mrs. St. Vincent Welsh, was last heard of
in Jerusalem. . She is liable to be nearing
these shores, like a homing pigeon, any fine
winter morning, unless Asia clutches her
on the journey back.
Jack London, like Rider Haggard, seems
to have gone on the soil with the most ex-
pensive intentions. The Breeder and
Sportsman gives a long list of pedigree
stock which London has recently bought for
his ranch at Glen Ellen, California. The
U.S. writer has been buying up all the
American horse peeraee, or most of it, so
his pen must be shod with gold these days.
According to the gospel of the cable, an
Australian named Bartram has snatched
second prize for a milking machine. This
exhibit was on view at the English Agri-
cultural Society’s show of these labor-
savers. The weakness of the average milk-
ing machine, as one sees it on N.S.W. dairy
farms, is the mildly hostile attitude of the
Australian cow. She yields to the auto-
matic pressure of machinery up to a cer-
tain point. Then she maintains a sullen
front to the Enemy which is removed to
make way for the human stripper. Not
always, but very often, he is a small boy
with such appallingly dirty hands that a
washing machine is urgently required to
add to the uses of the machine milker. The
inventor who can place on the market a
Dairy Devil that will seize the boy, wash
his hands, and bump him down on the stool
before he has time to resist, will certainly
lessen the infantile death-rate in our cities.
Beatrice Grimshaw, who has anchored
her graphic pen in Papua for some years
was mentioned in the Van Waerwyck’s Syd-
ney passenger list.
From the same rubber-shod island comes
Lieut.-Governor Murray and his private
sec., H. L. Murray.
For once, the usually inscrutable work-
ings of Providence which seems to sit up
all night devising sudden death for the most
useful persons in the communitv, have been
conducted on business lines. According to
the Sydney Telegraph, Mayor Bonner, of
Manly, and Providence are firm allies. Mr
Bonner wants to spend £7OOO of municipal'
cash on new dressing-sheds. In the morn-
ing, tenders for the removal of the old
shanties on Ocean Beach were called for in
the Government Gazette. Providence
presumably reads this dull document. In
the evening it sent along a million horse-
power storm, which removed everything re-
quired, except a few slabs of timber that
were stronger than the storm.
The Royal Alexandra Hospital for Sick
Ohildren didn t have its linen spree as ex-
pected. The weather promised faithfully to
do its wettest to spoil an outdoor fete, so
Lily Bray ton and the tea cakes were put
off till Wednesday in this week. The notion
of getting three years’ supply of sheets,
blankets, etc., in one fell swoop is obviously
sound. Secretary Clarence Moss pointed
proudly to a mountain of towels, a pyramid
of blankets, and a snowy bank of sheets the
other afternoon. Three years’ donations
for the youngsters filled a fair-sized room
and nearly climbed out of a fanlight,.
Clara Butt and her elegant Ivennerley
Rumford left this town in the middle of the
late Flood. That was the night when Noah
drove the express, with Christopher Colum-
bus as stoker. The Junoesque Clara, as
placid and smooth of skin as she was five
years ago and is likely to be 10 years hence
(nothing but an earthquake would dis-
arrange that equable temper), owns to dis-
covering little that is very startling in the
way of. new music. She is a warm and
comforting personality on a wet night. Five
minutes before the Melbourne express
screamed its way out of Sydney two femi-
nine adorers rubbed themselves against the
vast Butt, and purred over her furs like
damp kittens drying themselves beside the
generous warmth of an amiable lady bull-
dog. The Voice, one imagines from the per-
fect physique of the owner, is undamaged
by five years’ wear and tear.
H. N. Southwell, more or less better after
his recent illness, was standing on a little
island of spare flooring on a wet afternoon
last week. In front of him raged a meeting
for the Tom Moore concert, which occurs
on May 28. A serious small boy was pour-
ing forth a^. sweet treble voice over the top
notes of “Killarney,” while detached groups
of casuals discussed the rainfall, the pre-
sent season’s crop of singers, and the last
thing in millinery. Behind H.N.S. swirled
a hot tea urn, and a meeting to promote a
concert which had nothing whatever to do
with Poet Moore. On eitherside, the far-
off echo of prolonged caterwauling came
from the secret recesses of Paling’s Build-
ings. Down a corridor ambled the benign
Kretschmann, with all his hair on end, the
wet weather having set it out in a stiff
frizz. How to convalesce in such a scene
of mixed music it’s up to “Southie” to find
out.
un^nT e^ Jessie Ackermann,
JLK.S.G.S. (hasn’t Jessie got a long tail?),
sends a line from London. She has been ill,
but is now well, and had just returned
from a lecture tour through Scandinavia.
-Lhis was garnished with snow, large nip-
ping blizzards, and a hard freeze that drove
the traveller to shelter under layers of ice-
/ ur rll £ s - Sim leaves for Pennsylvania
(U.S.) on May 22.
Olive Godwin, the tall Sydney girl with
the velypty voice, who has been away from
* firm for a y ear > left London on
April 25 for these shores.
Lila Gaspers, the Goulburn singer, has
arched lit. back in legal protest against a
British company that deals in gramophone
records, and declares that it mustn’t
sell any impressions of her voice.
She claimed to have had no cash for the
results, which she alleged were very bad
ones, anyhow. The Judge “granted a per-
petual injunction.” Hi s Ludship also
ordered the co. to hand over or destroy the
records in question and pay costs.
Shirley Huxley, the auburn-haired girl
who takes the part of Dora Delaney in
I anny’s First Play,” is a grand-niece of
the learned Huxley. She walked on in
Benjamin Hur,” and romps through the
present performance with the giddy effer-
vescence of a very young person.
“No lady is a lady when she isn’t treated
as one, ’ is a Shaw excrescence in “Fanny’s
I irst Play.” In this case it means that
when a policeman twists a Perfect Lady’s
arm she is only within her rights in knock-
mg out two of his front teeth. Violet Paget
as Margaret Knox, the daughter in revolt
practically utters most of the Suffragette
doctrine, which contains a good deal of
human nature, and an alloy of mere plat-
Shriek. The flaming red dress in
which Margaret boasts of having done time
in Holloway is evidently intended to repre-
t h - e i Pe r™ ect La(J y’ s mental upheaval.
Ihe Little Iheatre,” which roofs this plav
has localised the critics and retained a fine
flavor of the originals. “Fanny’s First
I lay is rather like Chesterton treading on
the heels of Bernard Shaw, after the latter
had spent a pleasant Sunday afternoon
with Mrs. Pankhurst in Iloiloway.
n L °s d , Plymouth, who has snatched the
el?, i 1 i ce (London) from the clutches
of the brokers and the bailiffs and the rats,
will have to buy soap and water by contract,
also brooms, if that depressing menagerie
is as dirty as it used to be 10 or 11 years
ago. . The Crystal Palace was London’s
glory m the days of the first great Exhibi-
tion of the Industy of all Nations. Then
;w d< ! n be f a me jmed to it. Then the Society
that haunted the place became too mixed.
I hen it became utterly vulgar, and degener-
ated into a haunt of ’Arry and ’Arriet, also
Enry and Ennetta. Then it became a sort
of race track for cockroaches, and the Beetle
Cup was run there at irregular intervals.
Eugenie Boland’s concert in the Con-
cordia Hall didn’t suffer as much in its
attendance ns might hnv« u„„
For last week's weather was m ?, xppotp d-
Jhe Toowoomba singer has n ? ud -
England with several years’ nil 1 from
her careful training here P^ lsh added te
deep contralto voice may' be a few n Dd
deeper than it used to be Tim 1 shades
ter is rich, round, and full of thl* Cr regis "
wind in a cave, which you get n ? f
deep notes. Just as ’ the r!, n £ rossley s
sopher wonders why anything so f« tlC - phil °'
as a kitten should ever grow into ng
so thieving as a cat so anything
contralto should ever climb f. hy a
register. Miss Boland’s ton Lt° hlgher
luscious richness of her deen orLn° S< ; the
admirably displayed in a grorn of n o tones
songs. Of these, * Henschebs <‘^ r “ an
Hymn’ was a fine sample of the sS?
singer has picked up in Lieder under A thls
Fischer. The “Hymn to Aphrodite ” n
effort, is a harsh, noisy affair at best wfif
Bantock wrote it, he mav have taken pk. en
granted that the daughter of Zeus ml for
be very old and deaf. Sid MacdonaTd W
Grieves on the fiddle, and the Garcia V'
dents assisted. aicia stu-
That merry little lark, Eva Gamine
leaves Sydney this week for Java
look-.n at the Dutch settlement, she steLs
ahead for India. This is one of til f
portions of the globe in which the Gan tv W
warble has not tickled the listening ear " 01 '
From Paling’s comes a small library
new music. It includes an album ofV f
pianoforte solos by Laurence Phillip which
contain qmte £5 worth, of harmony’ fjg
A. flu * e solo with piano accompaniment -
Dainty Dance,” by John Lemm o ne „
Graceful Dance,’’ by the same composer
(for the keyboard) are melodious additSS
to the average amateur’s efforts fn ,!
up on wet Saturday evenings “Visions»
graceful trifle by Madeline Fiistnbbs
should be promptly attacked bv pianists in
the early flanper age. “Moon Shad
(Paling’s Pianoforte series) bv C Spencer
is dedicated “To my wife.’’ B moves on
conventional castors, with no domestic
squalls to break the mild and jerky tenor
of its way. J or
All kinds of the species Cap can be seen
Zllil perched on the heads of women wh o
piefer the Unusual in theatre headgear A
mauve hair-cover with large knobby lumpl
sticking out over the ears, submerged a
coiffure in the Royal stalls the other even-
X p. g- , A^ ar xt a , s a very £° od imitation of a
Pickwickian nightcap. Another effort was
a s . r L al l dab of lace like an understudy of a
“S® in , doo r headgear As top-dressing for
stalled heads these flat caps hide the
wearers rather than the which
is sometimes an advantage. The unstanding
pillar of osprey hasn’t these good points.
Ladies who glitter like the front window
of a jeweller s shop are more in evidence
than they used to be at evening entertain-
ments Last season Potts Point left some
of its diamonds and gold plate at home when
it went to the theatre. But the early bird
habits of the light-fingered burglar, who
waltzes over the balcony rail at 9 p.m. or
,7 e u lrs ' J eru ®alem Artichoke to wear
the lot when she slams the front door to
snend a few hours with her friend, Mrs.
Bathsheba Galilee. One dame who was cov-
ered, on a recent evening, with baubles the
size of small decanter stoppers, blazed so
furiously that she wanted screening off like
oouth Head lighthouse.
A wild man who doesn’t know the great
things that fill our suburban lives blisters
me with this :
son Ja< r k , wears silk next his skin. At this
present moment he is wearing sealskin socks. And I
boast > hut them oysters cost ss. each.”
rpi 1 °^ ei \ Goose Panto., Chap. 111., verse' vii.)
lhe words of mv text are recalled on reading an
interview ih a “Society” paper. It starts: “She
stood alone, , an impressive figure, in her green and
yellow drawing-room.” With an expression of cow-
lKe benignity on her patrician features, and with-
a humor in her classic eve, she
allowed herself to be photographed in a set of furs.
After th's interesting ceremony, she sweetly chatted
to the reporter. She is married—oh, yes, she is
married and she has children, and she loves them.
Heavens above! Some women wouldn’t think of men-
fact. But these poor creatures have
little else to love. Not for them the skin of the
weasel and the hide of the rhinoceros! After some
more thrilling and instructive remarks about what
she wears on her feet and things, she gently took
leave of the happy interv’ewer, bidding her make
known these facts to an intelligent public, and pro
mising to try to. persuade another member of hei
family to have his socks and ties photographed in
the puce drawing-room.
Yours affectionately.
VANDORIAN.
The late M. C. Davies began in Vic-
toria, and ended in Westralia, but be
left a big mark on S. Aus. during
bis most active days, before Timber took
possession of his tremendous faculties. He,
or his firm, built the Torrens bridge, now
the main thoroughfare between Adelaide city
and North Adelaide, the bridge over the rail-
way at Morphett-street, and the swing-bridge
at the Port; the railways to Largs and the
Orange, and the difficult section of the Mel-
bourne line eastward through the hills from
Mount Lofty; and, as a side-line, the long
pier at Largs Bay. It was while doir" these
things that he got the experience of karri
and jarrah which finally took him westward
to end his days as a timber expert.


VICE-REGAL
JEWELLERS
BY APPOINTMENT.
Presents for Men.
We have an extensive
stock of high-grade
articles suitable for
presentation to men.
It includes Watches,
Chains, Sleeve Links,
Dressing Cases, Walk-
ing Sticks, Cigar and
Cigarette Cases in Gold
and Silver.
Inspection of the Com-
pany's Fine Showrooms
is invited.
If you cannot call, our
Mail Order Department
is at your service. It.
brings the whole of our
stock within your reach.
Selections of the newest
goods sent on approval.
Hardy Brothers, Limited,
VICE-REGAL JEWELLERS,
13 Hunter St., Sydney; 118 Queen St., Brisbane.
LONDON OFFICE: 17 & 18 WEST SMITHFIELD, E.C.
-4|
<3
N.S.W. Bookstall Series.
1,000,000 COPIES SOLD OF THE POPULAR
“BOOKSTALL” SERIES of AUSTRALIAN NOVELS
Written, Illustrated and Printed in Australia.
Price, One Shilling Each ; Post Free, 1 1.
THOS. E. SPENCER,
AUSTRALIA’S SUBTLEST
HUMORIST,
AND THE WRITER OF THE BEST AUSTRALIAN RECITATIONS AND
SKETCHES THIS SIDE OF THE EQUATOR.
Year after year he maintained that reputation, and he never sent to his publisher any boolc
that public opinion had not voted a DECIDED SUCCESS. Those who are fond of GENUINE
HUMOR and a HEARTY LAUGH should start with “McDOUGALL,” and go right down the list.
It can be done for a SHILLING A SHOT, and will prove money well spent. Every book teems
with SPLENDID RECITATIONS, such as clever amateurs love, and the variety is endless. me
How MeDougall Topped the Score.
The Spring Cleaning.
Bindawalla.
Why Dorothy Died.
PRICE, 1 /- PER VOL.
The Surprising Adventures
Bridget McSweeney.
The Haunted Shanty.
That Droll Dady.
of
POSTAGE, Id.
Steele Rudd s Great Australian Books
In Cheap Editions. Price, Is. each. Post Free, Is. Id.
All the Celebrated Illustrations have been retained, as these New Cheap Editions are printed from
the Original Stereos.
Sandy’s Selection.
Back at Our Selection.
From Selection to City.
On Our Selection.
Our New Selection.
The Dashwoods.
The Poor Parson.
Duncan McClure.
For Life.
Dad in Politics.
Stocking Our Selection.
On an Australian Farm.
Steele Rudd’s Latest —“THE BOOK. OE DAN.
(Author of “On Our Selection,” etc., etc.)
PROFUSELY ILLUSTRATED BY LIONEL LINDSAY.
POST FREE, 1/1.
PRICE, 1/-
JUST PUBLISHED—
“IN RACING SILK,”
GERALD R. BALDWIN,
With frontispiece and three-color cover by PERCY F. S. SPENCE.
price, i/- I>OST PREE ' 1/1 -
With Frontispiece and Three-Color Cover, by PERCY F. S. SPENCE.
In this book we have one of the best Australian stories that have appeared for some
It is full of racing of the genuine sort, where both men and horses are triers, a
scriptions of a few hard-fought finishes are brimful of life and . th ta „ e j s passed
Naturallv, there is a woman in the case, and a sport at that, and before I P
for the last time she has a few men so tangled up that they where they a • Theh
interest is exceptionally well centred, and one lays the book down with a feeling g
there is no more of it.
■ARE NOW OBTAINABLE FROM"
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.,
476 George Street, Sydney; and all Booksellers.
///ARRIS
We Will Take Your Piano
in Part Exchange for a
Genuine Pianola Piano.
There is a piano in your home —a
piano that is silent ninety-nine
evenings out of a hundred, because
you may not have had time to
acquire the technical ability to
play it, and because your reper-
toire has long since been ex-
hausted.
Yet that piano—now little more
than an article of furniture —can
he the very means of bringing the
world’s wealth of music to your
home—music that is not limited
by mere inability to read the score
or finger the notes.
This Offer Will Enable You
to Replace Your Present
Piano by a Pianola Piano.
Tell us what your present piano is,
and we will quote you a most liberal
allowance upon it, to go towards the
purchase of a genuine Pianola Piano.
The balance can be paid on terms to
suit your convenience, and the Pianola
Piano can be in your home at once.
U Think of this —that long-desired
Pianola Piano may be in your home
this very week —all you need to do is
to describe the Piano to us. Even if
your piano is an old one, do not hesi-
tate to write —the allowance we are
prepared to make is a generous one,
and there are many of the new models
of the Pianola Piano which are com-
paratively inexpensive.
The New Era
of Musical
Enjoyment.
THE PIANOLA COMPANY, 357 GEORGE ST. (next David Jones, Ltd.;
Fill up and post this Form to-day It is the first step towards the possession ol a genuine
Pianola Piano which everyone can piay.
SYDNEY.
.purchased in (approximate date)
My Piano is a
Please let me know what allowance you can make on this instrument towards the purchase of a Pianola I tano.
Name
MM
MM
the pianola company,
252 Collins Street, MELBOURNE ;
88 Rundle Street, ADELAIDE /
357 George Street (next David Jones Ltd.), Sydney.
FtRIRRANE: London,
Berlin, New York, etc.
|AS
Mi « 'MI «M»I


FARMER’S VELOUR HATS
Are Smart and Distinctive.
PRICE 1211- EACH.
These Velour, or Velvet Mats are the latest and
most popular style for Winter wear.
Smart and distinctive in anpearance, and very
comfortable to wear, they will appeal to all smart
dressers.
We feature a snecial line at 21s. each, and
invite inspection in the Men’s Hat Section. Our
\ elours are in all the favored colors, and are made
from selected materials only. In all sizes.
Price, 21/- each.
Sent Carriage Free to Any Part of Australia.
Others, 25/- to 37/6 each.
F armer’s—Sydney.
fi
The
Oriental
Hotel,
MELBOURNE.
AUSTRALIA’S MODERN HOTEL.
Now open for the reception of Guests.
The most Hygienic Conditions and Refined
Elegance are distinctive features.
Any size suite of compartments.
Tariff from 15/- per day.
ERNEST McFNTOSH, General Manager.
FOR THE
RAPID RELIEF OF
Insomnia, Indigestion,
Weak Nerves, Poor
Appetite, Sluggish
Liver, Sick Headache,
Use
CLEMENTS TONIC
ALL CHEMISTS and STORES
SELL IT EVERYWHERE.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, May 19, 1913.
My Dear Yarrie,
An intimate friend of Dr Mercer s writes
from Hobart that there is no truth in the
“silly rumors” about the Bishop’s re-
marrying. That being so, I’m sorry for the
lady, whoever she was: she misses a better
husband than most women have the luck
to get. Also, I am sorry for the Bishop. If
that kind of Bishop really thought of re-
marrying, the kind of lady that kind of
Bishop would naturally select would be a
credit and an honor to the household of any
kind of bishop.
Melbourne lias just acquired Dr. Sinclair
as City Health Officer in place of Dr.
Jamieson. Sinclair was assistant in Syd-
ney, and is voted hereabout an all round
good fellow.
The air is full of farewells these days,
and the intending voyager’s last cup of tea
has to be passed so fast that it spills into
the saucer and ruins the cake. Gaud
Mayoress Hennessy had only just tidied up
the Town Hall, after the big good-bye of
Tuesday to the Denman lady, when she had
to put fresh flowers in the vases and brew
some more tea for Councillor Brenan’s wife.
A purely masculine party, headed by the
Gaud Mayor, had handed over compliments
and valuable presents to the Councillor, on
Ihursday. Next day, Mrs. Brenan was
f@ted by women only, at the invitation of
Mrs. Hennessy. Gaud Mayor Hennessy, a
lone man amidst a sea of hats, loyally
helped his hospitable spouse, who beamed
on her guests from the depths of a lettuce-
green gown and chinchilla furs. Mrs.
Brenan, in black, clasped an armful of
roses. A cosy little musical treat was
snugly packed in the blue boudoir rooms
upstairs, where the company disposed them-
selves on blue and gold silk lounges, and
gazed soulfully at the few selected pictures.
Nellie Billings played Chopin to them, and
Millie Tree Chapman sang. Then every-
body admired the chrysanthemums, and pro-
ceeded quietly towards the refreshments.
Several big tea drinkings during the week
must _ have dulled even society’s immense
appetite for free food, for the big brown-
and-red Council Room held a smiling crowd
of elegant tea drinkers, all of whom were
ready to gossip politely while the cup
hovered in mid-air or reposed on the saucer.
The Charley McEvoys have shut the door
of their Cliveden flat and gone into deep
mourning for their only son. killed lately in
a gun accident in Westralia. Some years
back he married and went West with the
girl of his choice. His people did not ap-
prove, and diplomatic relations were broken
off. Lately, a kinder feeling was beginning
to assert itself, and a reunion loomed ahead.
A wedding which had been placarded for
.Saturday, May 17, was sprung as a great
surprise on the numerous friends of the
principals last week. The bride. Miss Faull,
is an artist of note and heiress to iron-
merchant Pauli, of Bendigo. The bride-
groom is Mr. Lambie, brother to the war
correspondent who was killed in South
Africa. The pair are to leave for an ex-
tended honeymoon tour by the Demosthenes
sailing on June 13.
Gaud Mayoress Hennessy invited every-
body who isn t right over the social horizon
to help say farewell to the Denman lady
ere she started for England. Her Ex., all in
brown, and with schoolgirl tails to her
sailor , hat. beamed and hand-shook her way
through the assemblage. The Town Hall,
usually so bare and comfortless, was snuglv
carpeted : the only reminder of chill was a
busy fountain which flung up spray and
gushed like the most persistent flatterer
present. The Gaudess was attired in terra
cotta silk with stamped plush trimmings—
the latter quite up to date, of course, but
very remindful of drawing-room upholster-
ings. The Barttelot lady, in purple, re-
sembied a large pansy blossom. The Frank
Madden dame, dressed severely in black
brought her two fluffy daughters, who
always favor a theatrical style of dressing.
Mrs. Geoff Syme inhabited an elegant ar-
rangement of black velvet and fox fur. Mrs.
Clarke, of Blount Gambier (S.A.), stormed
the dais and proudly presented her daughter
—a damsel wrapped expensively in ermine
from nose to heels.. Mrs. Garnett, wife of
th@ British Commissioner, in cloud-grey,
much befurred, supported an autumnal hat.
Mrs. Captain Waters, a Sydneysider, looked
quite well and blooming after her recent
illness. Mrs. Andrew Fisher was gowned
in black and white. A carefully selected
concert hanpened in the far corner. Carmen
Pinschof Harris warbled richly when the
orchestra was not sawing off lengths of
comic-opera melody. Seemingly Mrs.
Hennessy has abandoned her courageous
attempt to popularise grand-organ thunder,
hood was provided both unstairs and down;
but the rush or charge was as fierce as if
the Best Females had been housekeeping on
reduced strike pay for months. There were
almost ambulance accidents on the crowded
stairs, and the way to the ground floor
buffet was strewn with bits of ostrich plu-
mage. Still, in spite of such performances,
the novelists go on describing the way the
heroine “nibbled.” Asa hard matter of
fact, most women nearly trample one
another’s hats to death when there is free
food to “nibble”; also, they “nibble” so fast
that the plain eater with a full set of teeth
and a few manners is left at the first sand-
wich.
The Melbourne dental students and their
friends will rotate, bound and sit out, on
Wednesday, June 11, in the St. Ivilda Town
llall. the imposing building with the nice
floor and the raw brick forehead.
One of our smartest society women has
an Idea for the fancy dress frivol which is
to happen next week in a Toorak ballroom.
She is going to represent the Paris fashion
ot the day after to-morrow. The masque-
rader refuses to divulge details, but she ad-
mits this much—that the dress will
only need “a chiffon petticoat” to turn it
into a useful ball outfit.
Mrs. Arthur Guise (wife of the G.-G.’s
new private secretary) is giving ice skating
a fillip. She glides about like a swallow on
the treacherous floor, and defies the laws of
gravity in a delightful manner. An exclu-
sively private session, on Wednesday of last
week, served to introduce her to our own rink,
which only opened its doors to the public
on the following day. Lesly Madden, the
lone spinster of the Madden clan, cut her
foot rather badly at the special whirl, and
was out of action for the grand opening.
Lesly of the silvered hair skates very well,
but maintains a prunes and prism pose
from her pursed lips to her small, discreetly-
moving feet. There are three new imported
demonstrators available for learners. Two
are German and one American. One of the
Germans is a lady, and she skims about in
a dazzling manner attired in black satin
and a skirt that leaves off some time before
it reaches her boots. If she manages to
teach our skating girls some of the new
movements, the rink will become as exciting
as a ballet. There is one particular trick
which is rather like a high kick frozen in
mid-air; and it is sustained long enough to
show a generous length of silk stocking
The Best People rushed the Glaeiarium
on opening day. The Austin Wallaces, the
Arthur Robbs, and the smart McKinnon
daughters were in the van; the Frank
Madden girls arrived in a quaint sort of
jockey costume —very. tight-fitting clothes
and jockey caps. Linda Neave skimmed
about like a full-fledged angel in white satin
and ospreys topping a hat of black velvet.
Bessie Tobin wore the neatest skirt on the
ice. It was a narrow, beautifully pleated
garment wdiich seemed to stretch obligingly
at every gliding stride. The color keynote
of the dressing was black. (Last winter it
was white.) What looks like a risky inno-
vation is the fasionable V-cut in the necks
of all the smartest skating frocks. It will
take a robust girl to dodge pneumonia this
year.
Society is “taking up" the Glaciarium’s
American skating instructor—Mr. John
Schener. Said that he is a Columbia Uni-
versity man with a tremendous hockey repu-
tation ; also that he captains the New York
Wanderers—whatever they may be. On top
of all this, he has a full hand of good intro-
ductions.
Mrs. Geoff Syme gave a partv last week,
during a lucky burst of sunshine, to say
good-bye to her mother, Mrs. Garnett. Dur-
ing the function, British Commissioner Gar-
nett and sculptor Cadorin stood shoulder to
shoulder, as men should do in the presence
of overwhelming female odds. (It is only
just to add that Cadorin does social escort
duty as if he really enjoyed it.) An orches-
tra, perched in the gallery, played softly to
the hats below in the hall, and big Maggie
Stirling dropped a few contralto notes
amongst the chatter. Hostess Mrs. Geoff
wore an arrangement of flat tulle and
big velvet choux (as the French call
their fascinating little cabbages). Her
dress was of black, filmy lace that
foamed up waist-high on a white gown.
(I forget for the moment whether the white
foundation was of calico or silk.) Mrs. Gar-
nett supported an artistic blending of neutral
tints in fluffy materials. Mrs Hennessv
wore a large dead fowl on her head, and its
wonderful butter-colored tail feathers swept
the surrounding scenery like cheese knives.
(Memo. Better move on to the next course.)
On Wednesday, last week. Archibald
Strong gave the Victorian Artists’ Society
a dose he called “Elizabethan Poetrah,” and
the cultured souls present mopped up every
drop of it The dead weight of Archibald’s
leckchaw was lightened somewhat by old
English ballads sung by the best Wieder-
mann pupils. Max Pirani, a budding Pader-
ewski of 13 summers, set two Fletcher poems
to music specially for the occasion, and
worked the piano himself while two selected
young nightingales trilled their best. He was
well petted afterwards for his achievement
and compliments flew in all directions. It
all ended in coffee and buns.
„/'] ara u tt arrived in Melbourne, on
W ednesday of last week, and was received
at the Auditorium by about 2000 of the
ery Best People. (Where are New York’s
lour Hundred now?) She had just driven
up from the train with husband Kennerlev
Kumford ; but of course a star doesn’t wear
the bashed expression of the ordinary train
traveller. Clara looked an abridged 'edition
of her abundant self in a black tb P
severity of which was intensified, more or
less, by a Peter Pan collar. While the black
dress made her look slighter, a flat hat had
a shortening effect. Kennerley Rumford’s
clothes were of the latest London cut. (Per-
haps you expected him to arrive in a few
odd duds picked up at one of the sailors’
outfitting shops in Flinders-street V If you
did, you were woefully mistaken). A steady
stream of adoring women filed past the dais,
and the large Clara found it necessary to
come down from her perch and stand foot to
foot, when it came to grips with the throng.
Great sheaves of autumn leaves were heaped
about the hall. The visitors wandered
round the double horseshoe galleries and
invaded the domed orchestra seats, where
they discovered that a low conversational
tone on the platform carried right to the
door. Afternoon tea was laid upstairs in the
lounge, in order to draw the great crowd
from the floor. It drew with such power
that the staircase was the scene of several
scrambles. Women will not observe the rule
of the stairway, and they came up and de-
scended on whichever side they happened to
be. Concert halls and theatres should
display placards, “CLIMBERS KEEP TO
THE RIGHT.”
At the Clara Butt reception, last week,
the worshippers were moving briskly past
the smiling singer when there was a "sudden
stoppage, and a small apoplectic official was
seen to be holding back the puzzled proces-
sion of handshakers. The traffic had been
held up by a Most Expensive matron who,
having secured Clara’s fist, moored herself
firmly, and stood chattering, just as though
she were yarning over the backyard fence
and had the whole day to spare. The man
who was holding the crowd in leash yelled
the next name three times, and was prepar-
ing to shriek for assistance, when the chatty
dame finished her three-volume conversation
and moved on to Kennerley Rumford to tell
the story of her life all over again. The
people who followed her had to be satisfied
with a mere touch of fingertips. Even Clara
showed symptoms of panic until the garru-
lous one moved on.
Artist Penleigh Boyd, just back from
Europe, is now hanging out at the Guild
Hall. is to say, he has hung out
about 70 landscapes on a buff background.
On invitation day, Pen’s pretty wife, in
wedgwood blue silk and Titian hair, looked
very proud, as she shook hands with her
husband’s old friends. Pen himself looks
absurdly young, in spite of the years he has
spent abroad and all his matrimonial cares.
His very fine brush work startled even his
closest friends into adjectives and pur-
chases, while envious artist brethren seemed
to be wondering how he did it. The Roval
Academy picture, “Spring at St. Ives,” is
mostly blue and sunlight, with several
tubesful of Chinese white in the foreground.
Somebody asserted that it was a bush of
blossom. The Continenfal water colors are
quite easy to translate, in fact they have
the same blue in their shadows as the local
gum-tree efforts. Pen uses cobalt where
others slap on shaded mud ; it is like having
good silk for a costume foundation instead
of shoddy sateen. The Pen Boyds are lo-
cated at the Yarra Glen homestead. It was
handed over to them by artist father Arthur
Boyd, who has transplanted the family to
the smoky city.
The business side of Pen Boyd’s picture
show is managed by Alma Cockburn, a
winsome young person with chestnut curls
and the figure of a nymph. Alma first ap-
peared on the horizon of Melbourne’s art-
istic world when the Cadorin couple ex-
hibited their hor tuny mantles and scarves
in the Centreway studio, the other day
Lovie Mueller found her (her people are
the Cockburns), and gave her the glad hand.
Now all the painting tribe are falling over
themselves and begging her to manage their
shows. I atrons are apt to find enthusiasm
and hard cash for canvas and frames, when
the sales are effected through an attractive
little agent with dimples.
, Lovie Cadorin is expecting another swag
of the fiortuny visions by an early mail
1 hese are to be exhibited to a chosen few
of Sydney’s Best People. Meantime, the
tew dreams left over from the last exhibi-
tion are being snapped by casual visitors
to the Cadorin refuge at Whitehall. The
man in the street can look out for a Bvzan-
tine-Greek winter helped out with gossamer
scarves.
The Australian Art Association has covered
the interior walls of the Athenaeum Hall with
the exhibits of its first show. The Denman
lady did the opening trick, on Wednesday of
last week, when enough people crowded in to
effectually lnde the pictures. Help Barttelot
followed her Ex who was garbed (not
garbled, please !) in tobacco brown velvet,
and supported a brown cartwheel hat with
long ribbon ends falling over the back rim.
Edward Officer can orate well only with his
brush, so he mumbled some introductory re-
marks from a crumpled scrap of paper,’ and
looked wretched in a most respectful wav.
The members of the new artistic tribe were
all on hand and trying not to look conscious
of their own canvases. Mrs. McCubbin was
hampered with trailing terracotta velve-
teen edged with fur. Theodore Fink looked
lound the walls as if in search of the art
treasure he expects to find some day Scien-
tist Joseph McCabe mt
flashing spectacles—the om wi1f efl .behind
peers into the Past’s inmost inn f hlch ho
lork Syme dame floated or J he
blue with ermine fixings andSt °S. nd in
Patterson and the Louise Dve, 1 a Esther
occasionally seen amidst the crus i? dy^ere
ing glimpses at the background nf . Fleet ‘
showed that the artists VaH™, f pictur es
some of the best work Ue i accom Plished
tered for „ TteffiS.5f 8 *M-
Commonwealth affair and will l ’" ls a
hang in an artistic sense r 1c °T an(1
one who can really and ,Vnlv Se) ar»y-
the responsible parties refuse - R «t
harbor the unworthy— presumably 8^ 11 — to
on the Block with mauve e Ue 6 artist *
tomato lips. They intend to S s and
art or bust. (Somebody is a produee re al
to mutter that they will umfouhteH'i^^^ 1
or that they are bust already R,,* ,}*' ,^ust-
of >" owl is always Sy with " “ orl
wta somebody or sonftthlig sSrf
avS* tlS'mS wbo
life for intellectual ™?s u its t re»dt Cie,s
paper of some historical importance d nt V
next meeting of the Repertory Theatre
The brain tonic will be administered a V ? -
Austral Salon, on Friday evening nJt f ‘
m almost unnecessary to add that there wfll
The foundation-stone of the new n,. •, ,
wmg °f St. Vincent’s IJospitaT wa / U 1 ld - s
last Sunday afternoon. The trowel au
got through by Aivhbishop Carr’s load ,n aS
I>r. Manmx. Carpets were spread am * f
the new bricks and a cottS
come.’ held up with strings of h„„T; Uo1 '
puffed at by a brass band of lusty orphans 88
1' rom my Adelaide correspondent •
The dominant note at Morphettvil,,. . . ,
feathers. 'Inere was.barely a nit mat ,r i as ostrit '*‘
erupt, foam and overflow with tnem Thev am
straight and lay aown flat; ailo they burst L U "
tne back of the brim ana cascaded from fhe tnn
oi the crown to tne wearers waist Thf ■ p
iiom the stand suggested a storm-tossed and
cated poultry-yard. i ne crowd was huge Iri t
the existence of a brand-new stand made little
ference to the pack on the lawn. By the wav J
" wbas broken the papers anent the “Sea”
at the women's Totalisator. 'those who u
atiect to be scandalised at the w tk li
battle for a chance to get tneir little bits on °"w
a matter ot fact, the scramble is nothing to" that
which occurs on the trains going
doesn t even compare witii the fight for places i,
the common or garden suburban train between five
and six on a wet day. But there—it’s no good talk
ing sense to the obtrusively (food S k "
On both Goodwood and Cup days it was cold and
grey—ideal weather for racing, if a trifle cool fov
cup finery The Bosanquets proceeding
from a bedecked box,; and changed the sma, f
built frocks they wore On Goodwood Dai—Ladv h\
was black, and her daugter’s a bluish-violet—f or
coats and skirts on C'up Day. Lady Bosanquet wore
creme, with touches of biaek, and Miss Bosanauet
w,'iu ,Ue ' Mrs ‘ J)lek Hawker surrounded herself
with vieux rose on Saturday, and on Monday she
affected a wonderfully draped skirt and golden
brown. With her were Mrs. Alan McFarlaneand
her lately grown-up daughter, a pleasing maiden
who looks as if she enjoyed life. Another smart
debutante was Miss Margaret Hughes. She is tall
and fair, and owns an exquisite skin. Among the
sartorial eccentricities of the meeting were a hat
closely set with small wings of every hue, from
orange to emerald green, and a “peg-top” skirt-
much pouched on the hips and very scant about the
snides.
The Alan McFarlanes, who have taken a house at
Kensington for the winter, gave a cheerv dance on
Friday evening. Our young people—or at any
i ate the nuttier” section of them—are hard at
work trying to learn the Gaby Glide, the Turkey Trot
and so on. They make rather heavy weather of it
so tar. But, mayhap, an air of assured and graceful
ease will come with earnest practice.
The Orsova put in here on Friday with Lady Den-
man and Major Quilter on board. They were at
once taken to Government House and carefully fed.
Captain Nutting came by train from Melbourne, and
joined the boat here.
Miss Dorothea Proud, winner of the C. II. Spence
Scholarship, left for England on Friday. The
Blackwood Club farewelled her a few days before-
hand.
The Ernest Toms have gone to live in London for
good. He has been connected with Good, Toms and
Co. for about 25 years.
The engagement is announced of Dr. H. M. Jay
(known better as “Budge”) to Miss von Doussa, of
Hahndorf—daughter of the sporting M.L.C.
Race week filled the town with Bowmans, McFar-
lanes, Hawkers, Barkers, and so on. Really,
my dear, we feel at these times not so
much a centre of culture as of agriculture.
Renmark fruitgrowers, who are sick of trying
to dry their fruit when there’s no drying
weather, were down in force. Also, the F.
S. Wvllies, Mrs. Jim Evans, Mrs. Woodham and her
children, and her sister-in-law, Mrs. Woodward. She
is staying till the end of the month, to meet her
mother and sister, who are on their wav out from
England.
A burglar burst into M'11swood, the stately abode
of Clem Hill, the cricketer, on Sunday morning and
stole P 500 worth of iewellery. I forget the exact
particulars, but I believe the loot included a gold
presentation watch with “160” worked on it in
diamonds (160 being one of our champion's cricket
scores) ; a pin, with a d'amond bat displayed upon
it : and other valuables, among them a gold bangle
with all Clem’s “not out” scores inscribed on it in
diamonds and rubies, and a platinum chest protector
with portraits of both the English and Australian
XT’s of the black year in which the Ashes were
last wrested from us, done on it in seed pearls—a
particularly chaste design. I am enabled to state
definitely that the burglar was a man of considerable
daring and strength. I haven’t seen him, but I know
that this is so. You see, Clem Hill is six feet high,
about 14 stone in weight, and a fairly speedy
runner ; and the malefactor, whoever he was, dragged
a safe weighing 3cwt. for ahout lOOvds. before he
blew it up. Do you follow the deductive processes
of my penetrating intellect?
Sincerely yours,
Johanna.


/
4
x
MS
V
m
IKMiiii.
%
/
fit
I
Wm
St
V
52!
•«s«Vav.V
sfeli
!
ivsvjs m&m?
mmm
ir-;ijA
\
v^ct:
ms
SI!
r.v.v/v
/
V'Vi-s&v
\
KS
vv^r
iT
$
W\
1
\W
1
"N
\
W
*>
/
a
»
*
5#
Dewar’s Imperial


Do YOU ever feel afraid to leave the fire and go to
bed at night on account of the cold sheets?
Do YOU ever feel cold and uncomfortable when
shaving winter mornings?
If you have, then write to us —
PEPPERS LIMITED,
310 George Street, SYDNEY.
WE can fix you by selling you some of our CRIMEAN
FLANNEL PYJAMAS, 10/6 per pair, post free.
“Micko”: Just read the argument re sewing sacks
behind a chaff-cutting mach ne in an old Bully.
Don’t know who is the champion, but knew a man
on the Warwick Downs who could do his 1000 a day
easy—but, then, he was sewing Smith’s once-used
Bags. This man won about a dozen contests, but he
always stipulated that Smith's sacks were to be used
in the contest. I wondered, until I found that
Smith’s sacks were so scientifically selected that they
were equal to new (Brand XX) for sewing purposes,
and held a greater amount of chaff. Now that I
am a “boss” I always buy from the sack specialists,
T. Smith and Co., Ltd., Sussex Street, Sydney.*
MpTOrI
Our large stock of the
latest Trusses for all
kinds of Hernia is a
real boon to sufferers.
Denyer’s Special Elastic
Truss, fitted to size,
ends all trouble, dis-
comfort and fear.
Call or Write.
M
Single 17/6, Double 22/6.
Others fr< m 3/o.
Experienced Lady and Centlemen Fitters
DENYER BROS..
Truss and Abdominal Belt Makers,
281 George St. (opp. HunterSt^Sj^^
POLITICAL
POINTS
AN UNLUCKY MASCOT.
But if the Liberals were returned to power
they would make an urgent effort to reduce the high
cost of living, and reduce the tariff. —A Fusioneering
statement daily appearing more boldly and fre-
quently.
CAP'N COOK (with furtive cordiality): “ You!
Why, of course , I'm alius glad to ’ave an.
old friend about me; but slip aboard
quietly , stow away carefully and don't make
yerself too conspicuous, ’cause some uv my
crew are a bit supersfishtts, an' passengers
are more particular and not so easy to
catch as they whs in the old days."
[E. COLLES, Kogarah, Sydney.]
The Bulletin is in communication with
a strenuous person who says that he desires
“to tear out the kidney fat” of a certain
Federal Minister, “and grease therewith the
wheels of progress.” The reasons are too
furcation is° inteS.in^ 0 herC ’ Mlt th ®
jurgation is inte est g.
[James Ed*qnd, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
As showing the keen, almost consuming,
interest taken in forthcoming House-of-
Rich-Landlord elections in the vicinity of
Melbourne there is the case of one candidate
who practically carries his enthusiastic
audience with him. He travels with three
motor-cars, all loaded, so that when keeping
advertised appointments with the enlightened
and discriminating electors in the suburbs he
may not be called upon to address utter
blankness. On three occasions in May this
spirited politician had an audience of 17
people—just the number carried in his
motor-cars.
C. G. Wade, at Manly (N.S.W.), advised
all those who hadn’t time or opportunity to
study the Referendum proposals to “play
for safety and vote No.” Apart altogether
from the degradation of appealing for the
support of Ignorance and Apathy, Wade’s
plea will at any rate provide the reason for
another Referendum pretty soon if the an-
swer this time is No. When the State
Fright leaders appeal for the votes of those
who haven’t had time or opportunity for
study, all that will be necessary to justify
another Referendum is to show 7 that the
people have been given the time and oppor-
tunity which they didn’t have before.
[S. H. Prior, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
One grieves to record that Vic. Speaker
Frank Madden has forgotten the traditions
of his office. Recently, at Camberwell (Vic.),
he described the six Referenda questions as
six baits, and hazarded the opinion that if
the Australian public accepted one or more
of those baits, they (the public) would be
‘‘yanked into the Labor basket and solemnly
dished.” Continuing his conversation, the
artist in mixed metaphor later replied to an
interjector of “Yah!” w 7 ith the classic in-
quiry, “Did that dog bark?” Such lan-
guage might be expected from an unregener-
ate Labah person, but, coming from a monu-
ment of Culchaw, in such a bell-toppered
neighborhood as Camberwell, it calls for
boiling tears.
[Charles Richard Brarish, The Bulletin
Office, 369 Collins-street, Melbourne.]
Bourke (Vic.) can usually be looked to
for some entertainment at election-time;
and the candidature of ex-parson F. M.
Robb, opposing Anstey,
the retiring M.H.R.,
makes for positive joy.
Lately Robb alleged that
Anstey had “made a de-
liberate attempt to induce
the belief that there was
some discreditable reason
at the back of his leav-
ing the Church.” Anstey
called on Robb to sub-
stantiate the allegation;
whereupon Robb, admit-
ting hastily that there
was nothing objectionable
in Anstey’s “spoken
words.” solemnly declared
that his adversary had
made his attack by “nods
and winks, blinks and
pantomime.” In support
of this extraordinary
statement, affidavits were
collected from 16 persons
present at Anstey’s meet-
ing, 14 of them being
women. Grabbing his op-
portunity by its stream-
in g whiskers, Anstey
landed his opponent with
a little work of literary
art, entitled “Nods and
Win k s a' n d Blinks,”
which had an immediate
and tremendous vogue
among the unregenerate
of Bourke. Nowadays,
Robb spends most of his
spare time painfully
thinking up some new re-
buke, dignified and ex-
parsonical, with which to
floor the unladylike Anstey.
[Frank Henty, Glen Iris, Victoria.]
The “go-slow” doctrinaires have no sense
of humor. Letter-sorters at Sydney G.P.O.
see nothing to laugh at in their complaint
that “narks” are secreted above the sorting
room to watch them at work and report
them if they “loaf.” Here is a good oppor-
tunity for a Fusion orator to step in and
harangue the letter-sorters re the tyranny
of Labor Government.
[Edmund Fisher, The Bulletin Office, 369 Col-
lins-street, Melbourne. ]
It seems that Cook’s policy speech at
Parramatta (N.S.AV.) was not fully re-
ported, and the details that would have
laid him open to scathing criticism were
carefully dropped by the kindly reporters.
Both the Sydney morning papers merely
mentioned that Mr. Cook would, if re-
turned to power, evolve a scheme of
National Insurance on the lines that had
proved successful in the Old World, or
words to that effect. Joe Cook now rises in all
his glory to state that his scheme, as out-
lined at Parramatta, would provide for sick-
ness, accidents, maternity, widowhood and
unemployment on a contributory basis.
Which means, of course, that it would be
national and compulsory. Unfortunately,
unless this Referendum which Joe so fiercely
denounces is carried, he cannot do more than
mature his scheme on paper. Under the
existing Constitution he can collect only
from firms and individuals who hover be-
tween two or more States. He cannot col-
lect one tattered sprat from either an em-
ployer or an employee who is a fixture in
any one State.
[C. A. Jeffries, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
HOW WE THRIVE.
“Do one of me like that old chap
and I'll tell you what I’ll do, I —I— I'll
get it framed.”
Says Willy Kelly:—
The Government proposals are not for the grant-
ing of new powers to the Australian people, but for
the transfer of powers which the Australian people
already possess from the State Parliaments to the
Federal Parliament.
And therein Willy speaks the truth, or some
of the truth. He speaks just as much of the
truth as he would, if, for instance, he said
that, having an 18-horse-power motor-car, he
can do as much as a man who has 18 horses,
and no more. William knows (probably)
that, though his 18-h.p. car may be no more
powerful than 18 horses, yet the 18 horses
would most likely not put out all their
power together, whereas it is a dead-sure
thing that the power of 18 horses, put into
one machine, will be all exercised at once.
Incidentally, if Willy thinks it the right
thing for the Australian people, to keep six
engines going to do one job, will he pledge
himself to apply the same principle to him-
self, and, instead of an 18-h.p. engine, when
he next buys a. car, will he see that it is
equipped with six separate engines of 3 h.o.
each? It will be a weird and ungainly
circus; still, what’s good enough for Willy
to recommend to Australia ought to be good
enough for him to recommend to himself.
[S. H. Prior, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
“Orient”: Cabled that the Bagdad railroad
is to go ahead. This is of profound interest
to Australia in more than one aspect. The
first section is from Scutari, opposite Con-
stantinople, to Ivonia, 480 miles. Thence
the line will go to Adana, Mosul, Bagdad,
Busra. The route is over the Euphrates,
along by the Anti-Taurus range to Ilelii and
Koweit, on the Persian Gulf. It is palpable
that, in a future time, with the Westralian
and Bagdad railways built, Australians will
get from Sydney to London in a week less,
slow sea-voyaging being reduced to a mini-
mum.
A good and timely advertisement for the
Fisher Government is its new ten-shilling
note. It is elegantly designed and well-
printed, and, unlike the old half-sovereign,
even the most beered citizen can’t give it
away for sixpence in the dark. The only
objection is that it is a shade too large.
The ideal note should go into an ordinary
pocket book without folding. When the five-
shilling bit of paper monev comes out the
Government might remember this.
[Written on the home verandah early one Sabbath
morn, when the crass was green, and the sky was
blue, and the harbor looked like a sea of glass full
of the upside-down shadows of ships, and the Lord
had forgotten to take in the faded circle of the
moon, and to stow it away in the cash-box among the
other sixpences of Heaven— by James Edmond, of
The Bulletin Office, Sydney. Excuse the length of
the signature.]
THE MISFIT BOY.
It is the women of Australia who will decide the
fate of the Referenda proposals on May 31. —Sydney
Telegraph.
Telegraph: “Run away! This isn't any-
thing to do with you. We women are
just deciding that your clothes DO fit you"
The Bulletin has received
three letters this week re the
advisability of cutting down the
working day to six hours. And
dunng the last ten months the
single State of N.S.W. has bor-
rowed from foreign capitalists
some £0,000,000 or £7,0()OOW
because it didn’t do enough
work —and consequently didn’t
earn enough money—to’ pay its
way. It has left the bill to
Posterity in other words it
has pawned the infant so that
the old man may have time to
go to the football match. There
is no reason why the working
day shouldn’t be cut down to
four hours —provided man will
first hurry his brains into the
front line of battle and invent
such machinery as will enable
him to cover current expenses
and keep civilisation advancing
with the proceeds of four hours’
work. At present, the evidence
supplied by the growth of the
Australian public debts sug-
gests that this country wants
to work an hour extra!
C. G. Wade’s proposal to de-
feat the nefarious practices of
the Australian burglar would
apparently be the abolition of
police protection, and the unre-
stricted admission of the foreign
felon, so that competition might
render the predatory profession
unprofitable to the local Sikes
At any rate he proposes to
get rid of the trust and monopoly curse in
Australia by refusing the Commonwealth
power to control local trusts and monopolies,
and removing the Protective duties so as to
allow any other old trust to come in and
feece us.
[J. Mahony, Bancroft-road, Roseville, N.S.W.]
A HUMOROUS BLOOMER.
It had been said by the Labor party that the
Referenda were defeated last time because the people
did not understand it. The people now
were supposed to be better educated. The Labor
party was making a very serious blunder in this
respect. (Applause.)— Senator Gould.
GRANNY: "So there's little fear uv my me
teachings bein' spurned ier some noo-fangltd
Guv'meat system uv eddication, eh, dearie?'
The Smart Youth: “Yes! I mean No,
Gran ma! ”
[E. COLLES, Kogarah, Sydney.]
The final Melbourne sitting of the Domin-
ions Commission discovered two interesting
witnesses. The first, from the Chamber of
Commerce, spoke concerning the desirability
of uniform patent laws throughout the Em-
pire. He rather approved of the patent
laws of England, Australia and Maoriland,
but considered those of Canada “particularly
harsh.” There, he said, the importation of
any locally-patented article within one year
was prohibited, and if it was not manufac-
tured within the Dominion within two years,
the local patent became void. After this
witness came a manufacturer of boots, who
complained deeply of a notorious American
company which had a monopoly of certain
patent boot-making machines, and stuck to
it by the simple method of merely leasing its
machines, and stipulating that no other
machines should be used in the factory, im®
agreement, he said, had been declared valid
by the English Courts ; but Canada had de-
clared it invalid and a breach of the Anti-
Trust Act. Exactly! Canada protected it-
self and its manufacturers; the other c °h
tries didn’t. The two witnesses could harm
have put the Freetrade and the Protecti
policy more succinctly.
[F. C. Jones, Elgar-road, Burwood, Victoria.]
Joe Cook developed another beautiful
figure of speech at Bendigo. “The Con
too-shun,” said Joseph, “is like a fence TO ,
a man’s home. It encloses all that is •
to him. Before he puts up that fence ne
carefully selects the posts and the rads
the battens.” Joseph repeated this
variations six times, till the fence g .
and decayed and full of white ants.
might have hung on to his beautiful
half an hour longer if somebody in the
hadn’t cut in with the upsetting rer ? a , nj
a mob of goats had broken through t
fence and was eating the cabbages.
[T. Quigley, Bendigo, Victoria. j
MY LAND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I saw my land, my maiden.
The dripping sap of flower stems had made her good
sword rust.
Its virgin point was buried in the flowers.
I said, “Who guards this dreaming girl of ours?
Her girdle gold with sapphire gems, her feet with
pollen dust?”
A blundering moth the scattered petals stirred.
There was no answer. Only one mad bird
Voicing the ecstasy of that wild wood
Carolled as though the world was always spring,
While Vision came to me....a horrid thing....
When those white feet went reeling deep in blood.
I saw my land.... my maiden
Whose honey mouth of beauty mould, wine and honey
quaffed.
Even the wise bees for her left the flowers.
I wept: “Who guards this plenteous queen of ours?”
Far off a war drum r011ed.... and those who heard it,
laughed!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


If only a single CLAVICLA
were in existence
AND NO OTHER COULD BE BUILT, the person who owned
that one instrument might take it from City to City throughout
the world, and all sorts and conditions of people would flock to
hear it played.
But the CLAVIOLA is within reach of everybody, and tens
of thousands of musically untrained men, women and children, as
well as the most accomplished musicians, are daily playing this
magnificent instrument, and enjoying its wonderful musical
possibilities.
Have you ever thought what it would mean to you, to be able
to throw your heart and soul into music ?
You can do that with the CLAVIOLA because it is THE
player which withholds nothing in the way of expression and
control from the person who plays it.
THE SUPERB
CLA VIOLA
PLAYER-PIANOS
and
PIANO-PLAYER.
The CL A\ I OLA may be had in Cabinet form, for attachment to any Grand or Upright Piano, or as a Combination
instrument, that is, the superb Claviola action built within the cases of the celebrated
RONISCH and LIPP PIANOS.
These magnificent instruments are playable in the ordinary manner by hand, or with the Claviola Music Rolls, and,
besides being musically perfect, stand absolutely without an equal as regards construction. They are buiU bv most
experienced artisans, and the quality of the materials used being the best it is possible to buy, their durability is
wonderful. You are invited to visit our Claviola Salon at any time, and see, hear and play the Claviola. Please call
in to-day and investigate its exceptional merits. Art Booklet and all particulars post free, if unable to call. We sell
on easy terms, and allow the highest possible value on old pianos taken in part payment.
MAGNIFICENT VALUE BEDROCK PP,ICES
EASY TERMS.
*w
m
in
V"
CLAV\O\-*
\_\vt>
F
-
&
’ «
g&
1
// l
J 1 >
*7i
£*«£
it /»< •*•/«
rtihrstiKy V/h Ob JMiEJth An i
<*f YCKb 11
15)
f.V
rrv*
-«S2=J
fc.«S
A Llpp-Clavlola Combination
Plano open for Playing
with Music Roll.
W. H. PALING <U CO. LTD.,
And at Newcastle, Lismore
Biisbane, Toowoomba.
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
M
STEWART DAWSON & CO.
(AUST.) LTD.
Strand Corner, 412 George Street, Sydney.
No. C. 9057
Emu Silver
mounted
GLOVE
HOOK,
1/6.
No. C. 6833..
9ct. Gold
Kookooburra
PENDANT*
5/0.
These attractive Australian Souvenirs
are sold to you at FIRST COST
PRICES. IVe pay postaye to any
address. Write for Illustrated Cata-
logue.
Sterling Silver and Enamel BROOCH, 3/«
Smaller Size, 2/-
Sterling Silver and Enamel BROOCH, 3/«
Smaller Size, 2/«
No. 1913.
9ct. Gold MEDAL. 21/-
No. 0.9057 A
Kookooburra
Silver-
mounted
GLOVE
HOOK,
1/6.
9ct. Gold
Kangaroo
PENDANT,
3/0.
AUSTR/ ,TJA: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth
NEW ZEALAND: Auckland Wellington, Christchurch, Dimedin.
LONDCjN: 73 to 81 Regent Street, W„ and 19 to 21 Hatton Gardens, E.CL
rata.
«
m
a
rl
HARRINGTONS’ have opened
their New Premises at
386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
with a Special Show of Cameras, Photo-
supplies, Cinematographs, Field Glasses,
etc., etc.
Our Headquarters at 386 George Street, which were totally
destroyed by fire in December last, have now been rebuilt, and
are open for business as usual. Special features of our new
stocks are the following:—
Reflex Cameras.
i he very latest and most up-to-date models by such makers as
Houghtons, rhornton-Picard, Goerz, Adams, etc., etc.
Roll Film Cameras (Daylight Loading).
Including ENSIGNS & KODAKS—ALL MODELS.
Magazine Cameras, Field Cameras, Studio
Cameras, Cinematograph Cameras by the
World’s Best Makers.
“ Erne man r\ ” Cinematograph Machines
for the Picture Theatre or the Home. Cinematograph Sundries,
etc., etc.
Zeiss Field Glasses;
We are just landing a very large shipment of these World-
““ed binoculars, including all the latest Models. Write for
Zeiss Booklet.
If you cannot call and inspect our new premises and the above
special lines, send for a copy of our Catalogue and new abridged
list just out
M
lIP
386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, AUCKLAND (N.Z.),
and WELLINGTON (N.Z.).


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Absolutely Pure.
No Preservatives.
yj\^
E. RESCH'S LIMITED , Brewer by Appoint-
ment to his Excellency the Governor-General.
Brewery and Offices : Dowling Street, Redfern, Sydney
West Australian Agents RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
A COLE DALE MINER.
FOUND DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT
PILLS A SPLENDID REMEDY
FOR MUSCULAR RHEUMATISM.
“Rheumatism is a very common ailment
amongst miners, owing to their calling often
requiring them to work in a stooping atti-
tude in dark, damp places. Mr. Herbert
Jenkins, of Coledalc, a coal miner at South
Clifton Colliery, NTS AY., relates in the fol-
lowing statement how he was attacked with
this painful complaint, which doubled him
up for about 18 months, and in suite of
medical treatment was unable to obtain re-
lief. Finally a friend induced him to take
Dr. Morse’s 'lndian Root Pills, with the re-
sult that within two weeks he was com-
pletely relieved and able to resume work.
“Being a sufferer,” writes Mr. Herbert
Jenkins, “from muscular rheumatism for a
period of 18 months, and frequently doubled
up with a bad leg and stooping form, I sub-
mitted my malady to a local doctor who
considered my case a bad one. I commenced
to despair of ever recovering my old form
of robust health asmin, being a young mar-
ried man with wife and family, a"d the
necessities of work as a miner compelled me
to get well as soon as possible. I was in-
duced by a friend to try Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills, and after a course of your medi-
cine for a period of two weeks, I was en-
abled to return to the colliery at Smith
Clifton. I now recommend Indian Root
Pills to my own friends and acquaintances,
feeling sure they effected a speedy cure in
my case.”*
OYD N E Y
GLACIA R I U M.
The ICE-SKATING SKASQN
opens to-morrow night, Friday, May 23.
Three sessions daily: 10 to 12, 3 to J>,
8 to 10.30.
Admission, 2s. Skate Hire, 6d.
Children: Morning and afternoon onlv.
Admission Is.
Children: Saturday morning, Admission 6d.
’Phone 492 Glebe. DUNBAR POOLE, Manager.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British
i, asian, 6d. weekly an illustrated Paper
containing mail and cable new p ro p 6
tralia, and news of Australians m Europe
and at home. Australians aie ooidndO .
vited to visit the British
Reading Room at the offices, 110 tbe
born, London, W.C., where thejamM
home papers, meet their friend , .
telephone, and obtain lnformat
charge.
Missing rrici«u°. .
ROBERT LOUDON,
> LEASE write to sister, JESSIE
LOUDON,
]8 rue verte. mo>s. m
pEOROE . ARTHUR ANeWSOIf
U (otherwise J. and seen m
Hobart, afterwards of Sydney, a paid by
Melbourne in 1910. Reward , present
he undersigned J or lU Faramrs, orchardists,
vhereabouts of above. I ; , es waiters,
iroprietors hotels, boarding-houses,
' AV r pS"j ar WOOLF\ y “olioitor; 34
:treet, Melbourne.
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar
Bearing: Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of toe largest and most successful links iri America,
and bv all .the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES hav ( e held all World’s Records for 14 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chioago, U.S.A.
RICHARDSON'
CHICAGO
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The latest challenger of all comers in the
pugilistic line is that well-known athlete Colonel de
Laune Ryrie, Liberal candidate for the federal
constituency of North Sydney. Hardly a meeting
passes without this polished speaker threatening
somebody to “wipe him out.” The bluster grows weari-
some. The writer rises to affirm it as his solemn
opinion that the gallant Colonel is what the Yankee
sporting papers call “a false alarm” ; meaning
thereby that he fights better with his mouth than
his hands, and his language is infinitely more
terrible than his fist. Writer has fortunately escaped
so far the horror of seeing the Colonel stripped, but
judging from outward appearances, he couldn’t fight
for nuts.
[C. A. Jeffries, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.l
The latest news of Johnson was that he
had been committed for trial on somewhere between
seven and a dozen charges of abducting, procuring
and other things under the White Slave Acts. It
seems that the craving- of our colored brother for
White Mary is overwhelming; and many penalties
cannot quench it. And White Mary, finding a gilded
path open to her, slides into it easily with a smug
smile and a plan of future blackmail in her heart.
Unfortunately all the girl® who fall into the clutches
of these lascivious blacks are not “White. Maries”
within the meaning of the colloquial sm, and decent
girls have been brought to ruin and degradation
through the huge nigger organisation that is said to
have branches and agencies all over ‘ the United
States. There is quite a large circle of wealthy
colored men in the Un ted States, most of whom
have made their money by running saloons with
white managers, and by pandering to the secret vices
of the wealthy ruffians of New York, Chicago and
other Get-Rich-Quickly cities. The organisation
alluded to is said to have as subscribers about 85
p e. of the wealthy negroes of the Union. The
object of the co is to allure by gilded promises, or
to acquire by straight-out kidnapping, or any other
means that present themselves, white girls to whom
subscribers have taken a fancy. The great
recruiting ground of the organisation is the vaude-
ville stage, and in a less degree the ord nary theatre.
A girl named Belle Schroder was making much
gilt and a mighty name in Pittsburg on the variety
stage by the daring of her impersonations and the
chanciness of her songs The rugged steel and iron
workers of that smoky town like their wit blue and
their jokes high. Belle supplied the demand. Belle
was notorious, according to the general account.
Terrific stories were told of auction sales of Belle’s
company for a few hours; sales at which Belle,
draped mostly in wreaths of beauty roses (a special
production of Yankee horticulture) was handed over,
blushing, to the h'ghest bidder. Belle could blush
at a moment’s notice, it seemed ; and found it a
mighty asset. The fame of her beauty, her spright-
liness, her accomplishments and so forth reached, it
is said, a certain nigger. Belle had refused to have
dealings with negroes. So she was kidnapped and sent
by a spec'al train to Chicago, and taken in a closed
car from the tsaip to a quiet house in the suburbs.
But Belle’s following swore to discover what had
become of her The negro organisation was sus-
pected. The following was wealthy. It poured out
money like water to find its Belle, and did so.
The following, in the course of its investigations,
accumulated a vast mass of startling evidence, which
ft placed in the hands of the Federal law authori-
ties, and the net result is that Johnson is committed
to take his trial on a large number of charges under
the White Slave Act.
* * * *
That McCoy had recovered his old punch
and his former vim became very apparent when he
got into the ring of the Baker Stadium, Sydney,
with A If Spencelev, of England, on Saturday night.
All the time he worried in, bored in, and bulldogged
generally. But had the writer been in the referee’s
boots Herbert McCov would have been outed for
hitting after being told to break, and doing some-
thing very like holding with one hand and bashing
with the other. McCoy Is a splendid fighter, quite
able to win the majority of his battles cleanly and
fairly, but he takes chances which may eventually
make him intensely unpopular. The time is ripe
for Herbert to take a look at himself and consider
his blemishes. Spenceley had been promised a clean
break, and he didn’t get it. He was bashed and
banged at close quarters in what was nothing less
than in-fighting; and at last the police took excep-
tion to it. After that, the clean break was enforced,
and the Englishman began to pile up ooints very
rapidly, till in the 12th. with a fine left and a
heaw right-cross, he shook McCoy where he lived.
In the 15th McCoy came back, once more got in
close, and put in some violent body rips. Spencelev
came up for the 16th, but he had not recovered,
and something that looked like a white eagle flew
in the air. It proved on insnection by competent
botanists to be the towel, of all things in the world.
* * * *
Johnny Summers struck trouble at Bris-
bane at the Baker Stadium, in Cremorne Gardens,
on Saturday night when he met Stone, of America,
in a 20-round assault and battery. It is said to
have been a delightful combat, fast, clean, pretty
and mighty clever throughout. Johnny’s guardian
angels were off duty that night, and though the
Englishman touched the scapular in his sock un-
failingly every round, he was outed on points bv
the referee, who happened to be the great “Snowy”
himself.
Midnight Sun’s brilliant victory in the
Adelaide Cup was in accordance with recent whisper-
ings. The Maoriland horse was said to be a good
thing for the. first big race he started in, and the
Adelaide Cup was quite big enough. As a 4-year-
old with Bst. 91b. up, the winner looks likely to cut
an important figure in handicaps and w.f.a races at
Sydney and Melbourne next spring, but he is not
likely to get another chance of meeting Jolly Beggar
at an advantage of 211 b. in the weights. Mountain
Princess did well to carry 9st. into second place.
The consistent black mare is smaller than most of
them, and in a big field of horses is always in danger
of being bumped into obscurity.
* * * *
“Nemo”: Elliot Grant, just dead in
France, spent most of his life as secretary to George
Adams, of “Tattersall’s.” When “Tatt.” found no
resting place for his boots in the mainland of Aus-
tralia his aide-de-camp went to Tasmania with him.
I first knew h : m over a quarter of a century ago at
Redfern, Sydney. I was then the whole reporting
staff of the Redfern Times. Grant was clerk in a
Sydney beer factory. Some years after I joined the
staff of the morning paper at Hobart, and I reported
Premier Braddon when he moved in the House that
“Tattersall” be allowed to pitch his sportive tent in
Tasmania. Parliament gave leave, and Adams and
his confidential man came. . Like h : s chief. Grant
had a wide and well-deserved popularity, and every-
body still alive who knew him will be sorry that he
is gone. Also, everybody dead who knew him will
be glad that he is come.
* * * *
Totalisator “fractions” make a nice pick-
ing in S. Aus. for charities, 'ihe machine, as run
in that State, pays only to the nearest shilling, and
the surplus bulks up to surprising sums, if favorites
get home. Obviously, if the winner had only 20
backers, the fractions would not be quite
205., while they might be anything up to
the verge of £5O where 1000 tickets were
taken on him. Hence, the good men who con-
trol charitable institutions, though not as a rule a
race-going crowd themselves, are understood to pray
fervently that favorites may get home. The one-day
Oakbank meeting has just found itself with £ll5
to distribute in this way. By the way, it is pretty
certain that the Totalisator Act does not authorise
the withholding of any of the moneys invested, beyond
the race-club’s 7$ per cent., and (latterly) the
00-.-r'rnpipnt’s 24 per cent. So the whole “fraction”
business must be illegal; but no successful backer
has yet been known to bring an action against the
Club for his missing 4|d.
Adelaide Cup Week provided some good
sport at Morphettville. The Goodwood (six fur-
longs) was won by Falkner’s Widgiewa in lmin.
14sec., record time for this race. Useful dividend
of £22 11s., with' £5 9s. for the backers of
Kosai, the second horse. The local Leger went easily
to J. V. Smith’s Moe; but in the S.A. Stakes for
2-year-olds the favorite, Juan Fernandez, was a bad
third; Arndel won, and paid £8 13s. ’The Elder
Stakes, the only w.f.a. event of the meeting, seemed
a certainty for Jolly Beggar, and money rained in
for hm. But he, too, was a bad third ; Clarke’s
Melton colt, Audacity, paid £lB 6s. in a field of
eight. Audacity had iust run nowhere in the Good-
wood, and a section of the crowd made an ugly rush
at Bobbie Lewis for winning now. (Officials and
press were agreed that there was no cause for the
fuss.) On the Monday, Moe and Audacity were well
backed for the Cun. So were others, for £7334
went into the machine, and the result was a mild
surprise; Watt’s Midnight Sun ( °8 195.) 1 ; Moun-
tain Princess (£4 18=.) 2; Aurifer 3. The winner
is a well-known Maorilander, and is confidently
stated to have made the journev to Adelaide solely
by mistake, through a misunderstanding between
owner and tra’ner. The attendance was reckoned
at anything up to 30,000, and the tote handled
£27,000 odd for the day.
The third day of the South Australian
Jockey' Club’s Autumn Meeting was remarkable for
the consistency of the dividends paid by the machine.
The Second Hurdle paid investors £8 12s. for each
quid on the winner. The S.A.J.C. Handicap saw
winners draw £8 3s. ; the Juvenile Handicap yielded
up £8 13s. on the winner and £4 18s on the
second brute; and the Tote Handicap panned out
£5 18s. on the first steed and £2 on the one that
drove him home. The lowest dividend was £2 135.,
paid by the red-hot favorite Quickshot in the Fisher
Stakes.
“IT ’IM ON THE BONE, ’ERB."
Humane towel prevents Victorian Ale Coy
from further if treating Englishman Spenceley's
tender nasal organ at Sydney Stadium.
The star match of the Sydney League
Rugby competition on Saturday was that between
Balmain and South Sydney at the Cricket Ground.
Over 20,000 people waded out through the slush and
dirt, and faced the biting wind and advised the
players “to get into it, like chickens into mud!’’
The cause of the excitement was that, till that after-
noon, neither of the high conflicting parties had been
licked, and both sides reckoned it was the other
fellow’s funeral. A scrap of the sort is always in-
teresting. This one opened with a loose sort of
scramble, in which both parties lost their feet im-
partially for about a quarter-hour or so, and then
they both got properly going, and the slush began
to fly. It was a wonderfully even game, and at half-
time Balmain was leading by six points to five.
After that, the men from the Tattered Suburb
walked over South Sydney for a while, and with
only 25 minutes to go, were leading by 10 to five.
Then South opened up the game, increased the speed,
and with a series of splendid long-pass rushes over-
whelmed Balmain, and made the score: Balmain 10 ;
South 16. It was an amazing recovery, or masterly
restraint, or sudden flying off the handle, or some-
thing on the part of South Sydney. Some say it
was the finger of Providence. Others regard it as
the cloven hoof of the Devil.
**•*■*
The most surprised team in the Sydney
League div sion was Eastern Suburbs when it found
itself called upon to put up the feet of its life to
keep Western Suburbs from dancing on its chest.
At half-time the Western team led by five to four,
and the Eastern barracker was dumb with terror and
blue with rage, for Western Sydney is a weak team
owing to the ravages of the Soccer game among the
young material. But this particular day that weak
side had the champion team tied in a knot, and
Eastern charges could not break down its defence
nor cross its line. It was the long-range deadly
kicking that changed history on this occasion, and
Eastern Suburbs defeated the West per medium of
four penalty kicks, which left the figures East nine,
West five. North Sydney and Newtown raged out
at’ Erskineville Park, and at half-time North was
dancing on Newtown’s honor and dignity to the tune
of five to two. But at the resumption Newtown got its
system to work, and burst through twice. Adding the
extras on each occasion, it made the score 10 to
five. North lay low, apparently accepting its fate,
till just before time a perfect dribble took the ball
to within striking distance, a two-man passing
charge took it over, the goal was kicked, and as the
whistle blew the scores were equal—lo all. Some-
thing Went wrong with Annandale on Saturday, and
that usually doughty, hard-battling, though unlucky
team crumpled right up before the big, beefy
warriors from Glebe, who ran over it by 29 to nil.
That was the only one-sided game of the afternoon.
This leaves Glebe, Eastern Suburbs and South Syd-
ney in the front rank with six competition points
each. Balmain has fallen back, or, rather, stood
still at four. North Sydney and Newtown have one
each, and Annandale and Western Suburbs hang out
the 15th letter of the alphabet.
* * * *
In the Sydney Rugby Union Competition
only Eastern Suburbs and North Sydney remain un-
beaten. All the others have had to grovel. East
got loose on St. George on Saturday, and the Saints
had an awful time of it, eventually going out by 22
points to three; which is a blazing disaster at the
Union game. Western Suburbs fared little better
than St. George at the boots of Newtown, who
kicked it hard by 22 points to five. University and
Glebe put up a very rapid mill at the University
Oval. Mill's “Essay on Liberty” was nothing to
it. The combatants got all over one another, and
each rolled the other mob cheerfully in the slush.
When it was all over, and the parties wiped the
slush out of its rema ning eye to gaze at the board,
it was seen University had beaten Glebe by 16 to
14. It was a great and glorious mill. Another
surprised mob was that from South Sydney, which
took the sea voyage to Manly, and got comfortably
belted by the Villagers, who scored eight points to
South’s three, Balmain called on North Sydney,
climbed the mountains, and reached the playing
ground apparently in an exhausted state, as North
Sydney crowd immediately fell upon it, got it down,
and walloped it by eight points to three. So
Eastern Suburbs and North Svdney are each six
points, Newtown and University four each; Bal-
main, Glebe, South Sydney, St. George and Manly
are two each. Western Suburbs hoists the sign that
is nothing with a hole in the middle of it.
* * * *
Saturday in Soccer circles in and around
Sydney was the day of the dog, and the underneath
dog at that. The angels of victory hovered around
the teams that were regarded as weaklings, and n-
tended specially by Providence to be chopping blocks
and score-makers for the m ght.v ones. Even the
terrible Sydney Club, the holders of the coveted
Rawson Cup, could not prevail against one of these
babe ’bailers —Canterbury—which made a draw of
it with one goal. At Epping, Glebe went up against
Annandale team with the fixed determination of
throwing its bones into a tree. Instead, Glebe
crawled home dead with its tombstone under its arm,
and the record was three goals to nil. On the same
ground Balmain rushed at Granville, got it down and
walked over it, also by three to nil. The supreme
curse of the afternoon in th's section, however,
took place at Sydenham, where Newtown gave the
Northern Suburbs team indecent burial by nine goals
to two.
There’s a whisper of discontent among
the N.S.W. League footballers. The League compe-
tition is supposed to be run on a district basis, but
some of the districts which have lately acquired
crack players find that these desirable young men
are st'll playing with their old clubs under a system
of permits. The League executive, it seems, is in-
clined to let a man play out the season with the
team in which he started the season ; and there is a
lot to be said for the idea. Of course, the teams
which, under a cast-iron district system, would have
acquired these tall fellows of their hands (to use
the Engl'sh of the Middle Ages) believe in a cast-
iron district system for the time. But should any
of their own crack players be forced by the vagaries
of the landlord, or the incidence of employment, or
pressure of creditors, or any other old reason, to
shift, it’s a million to a trouser button they would
object strenuously to a cast-iron district system.
The Ass, games (Melbourne) furnished a
few surprises and some annoyance to the various
barrackers. P’ran encountered Brunswick and
outed it, by means of reasonably stra ght kicking,
by three points. ’Wick’s habit of piling up a
Kosciusko of behinds -to a mere handful of goals,
will bring it serious disaster; only the perfect
’bailer can alwavs kick goals, but a team with a
record of 87 behinds out of 122 scor ng shots on
four successive Saturdays is not fully seized of the
elements of the game. ’Seray, keeping level with
North t'll the last quarter, held out better and finished
11 points ahead —62 to 51. Essendon squelched Port
by 72 to 56. Brighton jumped on Northcote with
81 to 69 ; also, ’Town dispersed Melbourne Citv by
14 goals nine behinds to seven goals e'ght behinds.
As) ’Town is itself a very trifling sort of circum-
stance, near the tail of the procession, this writer
would seriously urge on the citizens the advisability
of committing hara-kari or some other form of anni-
hilation. Their persistent habit of losing by a
million points, more or less, is a menace to society,
and threatens to drive capital out of the country.
Also, it is dragging down the pillars of the Consti-
tution, and causing conscription, trades unionism,
strikes, un'fication and the speeches of Joseph Cook.
[Signed in humble, not to say abject and grovel-
ling, conformity with the Act, by F. C. Jones, of
Elgar-road, Burwood, Victoria, who hereby smites
the dust with his forehead and accepts all responsi-
bility and remuneration.]
* * * *
Previous to the week-end games the Ass.
independent tribunal considered the case of a Port
player whom Brighton’s committee had complained
against for resorting to “stoush.” Not one of the
five umpires had seen the incident, though a knock-
out blow on a football field usually attracts atten-
tion, but there was, apparently, no doubt about the
fact, and the three arbiters handed out a sentence of
12 months’ compulsory retirement from the game.
Asa result of Saturday’s Melbourne
League hoofball, Collingwood tops the ladder in
solitary glory, with South Melbourne half a game
behind". The other teams follow in disordered
sequence down to ’Varsity, which lies on the ground
with nary a point, and holds on to the earth lest it
should fall off. The coll sion of ’Wood and Carl-
ton was viewed by sub-Excellency Fuller, sundry
mayors, councillors, etc., and about 25,000 common
or paying barrackers. The Magpies, as hitherto, set
out to establish a commanding lead, but the Old
Blufss were wary, and, try as they would, the former
could never get more than a couple of goals’ ad-
vantage. At half-time they held seven points in
hand, and they still held no more than the same old
seven when the last term began. Then Carlton had
the wind, and started business, but found itself up
aga nst a wall of stiff defence. Its marking and
kicking were a shade the better, but the team didn’t
play together, and though it added eight points
’Wood simultaneously added seven, which left it a
goal to the good—6 goals 8 beh : nds to
Carlton’s 5 gaols 8 behinds. The South-
Essendon collisions on the latter’s ground at East
Melbourne have for years provided close and excit-
ing finishes, but on Saturday South upset this neat
and tidy sequence. Up to lemon-time there was
little ito choose between the two, though South’s
system was .superior, but in the last term the Red-
and-Whites galloped over the “Same Old” and
pounded it in the loam, piling up a mountain of
41 po’nts to ’Don’s paltry eight—ultimate conse-
quence, South, 103 points: ’Don, 56. ’Roy pranced
lightly over Melbourne with 53 noints to 31 : Gee-
long stamped on ’Varsitv With 98 points to 51; and
Richmond biffed St Kilda down a step, though
with some difficulty, by capturing 68 points to 54.
About a month ago young Thompson was
wending his homeward way along Castlereagh-street,
Sydney, or seeking a cigar or pie shop, or somethin
At any rate, he happened to be there Sudden ng ‘
scream rent the air. It was a woman’s scream The a
son rushed into the breach, and saw and mlv’a '
struggling with a pair of what seemed to him Wn"
ruffians dressed in tweed clothes. Instead of 1001-i '
at the r feet he drew a gun and let fly and im»
diately one of the presumed ruffians let go the wnm '
and grabbed his wrist. Thompson fired again nn'J
the man in tweed just missed the bullet bv the thint
ness of half a ghost. Thompson would probablv h
fired some more, but one of the seeming rnfti 6
said, “We are police!” Then Thompson went
quiet like, ahd was formally charged with shootin!!
wth intent. The lady who had screamed, it seems
' va ® °, n . her l ]Y ay to the lock-up in the arms of the
som pLu at violent P Thomnsnu T ‘ that the times are
. at () utwardlv Zl l.w assumed they were
... P ’ ~, -t, , th o '! t with the shadows
actcd on to show
, ® re a i„Tv "aid that assi 'V’ pti °n,
judee Bahkhouse Ukha l™!! f sensible one.
lias resDect^tooV^ J! 3r ,. whom this
)a P® r Thompson Irving a gun P^ H attltude
revolver’” The obvious answw was• Carry a
L a w al lows it and he feels safeT with ii“ Se
coim?e l for the defence" sought to excusl
. , 1 excuse
Tr across'l
!h >
and
tte fo“ o/the n
ql , estion a rises: “If the Judge is foimd dead t
th [i oma none of these davs thus proving th t
Thom was riffht after all wjl , the iiw "retun
Thnmnsnn’s mm 9” mun
# #
“Magpie”: Is a Steamer a boat? The
problem is disturbing the various State rowing asso-
ciations, for thereon hangs the result of the inter-
State eight-oared race, rowed (and swum) recently in
Adelaide. Under rowing rules an amateur cannot
work “in or about boats.” The stroke of the
Murray Bridge crew, which represented S.A. and
reached the shore first, is capta n qf a Murray River
steamer. He thought so little of his job as a train-
ing f° r the race that he took three weeks leave with-
out pay to prepare, nevertheless the autocrats of
rowing are likely to decide that he is a tainted
profess onal Possibly his craft has at times to he
rowed, pulled or tugged off mudbanks and he has
acquired much improper not to sav illegal, brawn
anil smew thereby Anvhow, each State Association
will be asked its learned opinion.


EVERY MAN SHOULD
LEARN TO BOX.
i
1
1
i
1
i
I
I
i
1
1
i
1
1
i
i
r
i
i
1
I
i
i
i
i
i
mm.
Yes. To learn to better protect himself
against aggression.
You never know the moment you may be
ealled upon to “put up’’ your hands.
then why not be prepared by
“KNOWING HOW”?
All the theory gained by watching the
best boxers in the world will be useless,
unless you have a practical knowled ,e.
Remember, it has taken many years of
■constant sparring and “scrapping” for the
best “pugs” to develop their powers.
But under my efficient system you’ll have
revealed to you the most serviceable moves
in Boxing—hits and stops that have taken
years to evolve to their present high stan-
dard. There is no excuse for you to remain
a crude, inexperienced man with your
hands. You can learn in your own home.
I TEACH BOXING
BY POST
teach you how to better care for yourself, and fill you with that confidence that comes from a
knowledge that you “know how.” You will be surprised at the simplicity of the tuition, and at
your rapid progress which my efficient methods ensure. You’ll find the instruction an enjoyable
pastime, brimful of health-giving relaxation and exercise. You’ll be always glad you learnt to better
defend yourself. It’s a life-long asset.
You’d better make a start by getting my terms and descriptive booklet now. Kindly send three
penny stamps to cover postage.
REG. E. (“Snowy”) BARER
192 Belmont Building's,
CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Make
your
own
Cigareftej
twice ]
as gooey
CIGARETTE
PAPER
BB.ST and ?WtST
IF NOT PROCURABLE AT YOUR
TOBACCOMIST APPLY TO THE AGENTS
Jacobs Bros. L** 255“ George Sf Sydney
L. W. DODGE 8 CO.
(VICTOR THUMPER & DODCE LTD.)
CRICKET SEASONALITIES.
All Cane Bats, Bound Blades, 5/6
each.
Cane and Rubber Spliced Handles,
8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 13/6, 15/-, 17/6, 20/-
The “SPECIAL "Cross Rubber, 22/6.
The VICTOR DRIVER, 25/-
Vlctor Trumper & Dodge Ltd. Special,
30/-
BALLS—Leather Match, 4/6, 6/-, 5/3,
5/9, 6/3 each.
WlCKETS—BrassTopsand Steel Shod,
5/6, 6/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6 per set.
Leg Guards. Wicket-keeping Gaunt-
lets, Batting Gloves, Matting,
Boots and Shoes, Shirts, Sweaters,
Trousers, etc.
Our Illustrated Handbook of Sports
will be posted to you free on receipt of
your application.
317 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
MM
SHELL’
BENZINE
THE CLEAN
AND
POWERFUL SPIRIT
FOR ALL MOTORS
MM
M
Fits “Wonder” has
No “Bromide of Potash.”
Safe. Certain Cure—
-6 Bottles posted 17/2.
Write for particulars—
T. H. MERSON,
16 Hunter St.. Sydney, &
229 Collins St., Melbourne.
THE Australian Magazine—THE
HAXD. The Xational Monthly.
LOXK
Price. 6«1.
WHEN ORDERING
(Bum
ALE
Insist on
FOSTERS
4 Bugle
Brand’
AT THE BAR.
ANYWHERE.
EVERYWHERE.
MY CATALOG OF
GOOD SMOKES
I want every smoker
who enjoys a GOOD
smoke to send for a
copy. It is admittedly
the best catalog of
its kind issued, and it
illustrates the best
grades of Cigars, Cig-
arettes and Tobaccos.
A copy will be sent
free to your address
upon request.
MY “LA NOVA”
CIGAR.
as illustrated, is a
Dutch Cigar de luxe.
A mild Cigar, that is
distinctive in flavor,
delicate in , aroma—
reasonable in price
Try a box.
Price 30/- per 100.
Packed in boxes of, 25,
7/6 per box. Each
box weighs 12 ounces.
Postage extra.
I
A.M. SOLOMON,
Cigar Expert, Actual size.
173 PITT ST., SYDNEY
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
L. & F. CO., LIMITED.
MM
Secure Highest Market Rates
for all consignments of Wool,
Wheat, Hides, Skins and Tallow
entrusted to them and render
returns promptly.
MM
BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
The Correct Footwear
\
\
for well-dressed men is the RIGNEY Shoe.
It harmonises with the rest of their apparel,
and adds the finishing touch to the fault-
lessly attired.
There’s a shape and a style in the Rigney
Shoe to fit in with your ideal.
The boot illustrated is an American Model
made from choice Vici Kid.
In Velour Calf, 23/6 and 25/-
Also in Shoes, 19/6, 21/- and 22/6.
Postage 9d. extra.
Write to-day for a copy of our Catalogue.
The Rigney Shoe Co.,
“The Men's Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
305 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, Sydney;
And at City Buildings, Edward St., Brisbane.
THAT’S
WHAT USERS
SAY OF
DUNLOP
TYRES
Obtainable all Garages *•
iHS
DUNLOP RUBBER 00, All Slim tad NZ.
BY MILES"
THE BEST-
Thus Joe Cook, when leaving Victoria to
spread the darkness in Tasmania: —
It all boils down to this, that what is needed is
a sympathetic Minister, and not a new Anti-Trust
Act.
But a chunk of sympathy as big as Mount
Macedon is merely useless lumber while the
High Court forbids its use. And, anyhow,
would a Cook Government, if such a political
calamity eventuated, supply the “sympa-
thetic Minister” to put the 1910 Anti-Trust
Act to any use?
[M. Benson, Ultima, Victoria.]
The big dailies and the little politicians
are kicking against what they call “politi-
cal unionism.” The other sort of unionism—
the industrial sort—is all right, they say;
in fact, it is a boshter idea, which ought to
be encouraged. But when the unions go
into politics, it is tyranny and the subver-
sion of the sacred rights of the citizen and
a lot of other things. These big dailies and
little politicians have very short memories.
They forget that, in the early ’90’s, when
the workers were relying on industrial
unionism, and were in consequence striking
wholesale and making a mess of things in
general, they were told to drop that ruinous
nonsense and look instead to the ballot-box
and cons’tootional means. In short, the
right-thinking person told the worker to do
exactly what he is doing to-day; and if the
worker now and then shows some impati-
ence with the men and the papers that gave
him advice and now curse him for taking it,
who can blame him?
[J. Grills, Wallan, Vic.]


Sore Throat and Influenza
THE COMMONEST WINTER COMPLAINTS:
THEIR PREVENTION AND CURE.
When the days are cold and wet in winter, disease
germs have a much greater power over man than
they have in summer. The reason is that chill and
damp lower the vitality and render the body less
liable to withstand the attack of the germs and to
destroy them.
Although Nature has made a wonderful provision
for meeting these germ attacks by delegating to
certain particles of the blood the mission to eat up
these intruders, the warmth and moisture in the
back of the mouth and throat enable the germs to
develop with extraordinary rapidity. Each germ
divides into two in twenty minutes, so that, in the
course of a few hours, a single germ will have pro-
duced hundreds of thousands.
If the body is in a good state of health, the germs
are destroyed very soon after being inhaled, so that
they produce no ill-effects.
When, however, the system is below par or
weakened by any cause, the germs easily overcome
the defending forces in the blood, and we get the
ten minutes they were all killed. In spite of
this, Formamint is not offered as a cure for
diphtheria, although it will undoubtedly prevent
that dread complaint and other serious germ-
diseases.
The Prevention of Diphtheria.
This fact is vouched for by many sanitary
inspectors. The sanitary inspector of High
Wycombe, England, writes : “ I know of no other
preparation so effectual in preventing infectious
disease as Wulfing’s Formamint. During an otit-
break of diphtheria I have frequently given away
Formamint to those who have been in contact with
the disease, and no other cases have been removed
to hospital from the same household. Whenever
our ambulance is ordered out for the removal of an
infectious case, Formamint always accompanies
us.”
Many articles have appeared in the medical
papers pointing out Formamint’s supreme excel-
lence in the cure of sore throat. In The Prac-
titioner the Chief Medical Officer of one of the
largest Infectious Diseases’ Hospitals in the world
writes: “ I have never had sore throat myself since
I began to use Wulfing’s Formamint, although I
suffered periodically before.”
A writer in the Lancet states : “ I have had the
best results from the use of Wulfing’s Formamint
Tablets.”
It should be noted, however, that only Wulfing’s
Formamint produces such results. None of the
many imitations now on the market will do so.
How valueless they are is shown by a physician,
who writes that he “ has tried six substitutes, and
has not found one of them efficacious.”
Remarkable Concensus of Opinion.
The social testimony to Formamint’s value is as
remarkable as the medical. No preparation, with
the single exception of Sanatogen, which is made
by the same firm, has received such distinguished
testimonials.
The Right Hon. Viscount MaSsereene and Ferrard
writes: “ I have found Wulfing’s Formamint most
effective for the cure of sore throat, which quickly
disappears after using a few tablets.”
The Right Hon. Lord Glantawe writes: “ I have
been using Wulfing’s Formamint for sore throa
with most satisfactory results.”
The Right Hon. Lord Kingsale writes: “land
my family use quite a of Wulhng
Formamint Tablets, and find them all you say t ey
are. I always carry a goodly number in my poc ,
and have recommended them to many friends.
As to their value in influenza, Sir George Alex
ander writes: “Formamint Tablets have been y
constant companions during the winter, and a
found them a dangerous enemy to the intiue
fiend.”
particular disease they produce.
It is in this way that sore throat,
influenza, and bad colds arise.
Obviously the only means of cure
and prevention is to destroy the
germs in the mouth and throat.
Of all the methods hitherto de-
vised by Science for producing this
result, nothing can compare with
Wulfing’s Formamint. This is
unanimously admitted by the medical
profession.
Many thousands of doctors, in-
cluding several to crowned heads of
Europe, have written to the pro-
prietors stating that they invariably
use Wulfing’s Formamint for treat-
ing sore throat. The reason is that
nothing destroys the germs so rapidly
and completely.
This was first proved by a famous
scientist, who removed some virulent
germs of diphtheria from the throat
of a patient seriously ill with that
disease, and mixed them with a
solution of Formamint. Within
,
V/- ;
+? :
f.
< «
*
v
'
*% ' '
Y
1
Fig. 1
Fig. 2,
Fig. 3.
THE GERMS OF INFLUENZA AS SEEN UNDER THE MICROSCOPE.
Experiment* made at the Physiological Institute. Berlin, by Dr. PiorkowskL
Fig. 1 shows the germs allowed to grow freely on
a culture medium comparable to the favourable
breeding ground of our throats. Fig. 2 shows the
remarkable decrease in the number of germs when
the breeding ground had been treated with the
saliva of a person who had sucked three Formamint
Tablets. Fig. 3 shows the entire destruction of the
germs when the breeding ground had been treated
with the saliva of a person who had sucked five
Formamint Tablets five minutes previously. Thus
the sucking of Wulfing’s Formamint prevents germ*
diseases by destroying the germs which cause them.
Among other distinguished users
of Wulfing’s Formamint may be
mentioned the Right Hon. Arthur
J. Balfour, M.P., Sir Gilbert Parke ,
M.P., and scores of other M.P. >
Hon. Mrs. Alfred Lyttelton ; Mad
Adelina Patti; and Lord J .
Buckley, in addition to many °
barristers, clergymen, a cto ™
singers, to all of whom the p
tion of the voice and the avoid;
of sore throat is of the ut
portance.
Wulfing’s Formamint may he
tained of all Chemists, P r £ e j be
per A Free Samp flot
sent to every reader w MeSgrs .
tried it before who writes
A. Wulfing & Co ; , 17, Bond
Sydney, mentioning sta tiips
'and enclosing two.pen iy be
towards postage. gore
sent an interesting booklet o
throat.
The Dago has been taking his limelit turn.
Coming from out of his litter of oyst and
lob in a Sydney suburb, he plastered his
window with wild print-illustrations of the
Greek’s victorious arguments with the Turk,
and supplemented them by written descrip-
tions. For instance: —
This picture represent the vigorous battle of Ger-
vantoporo, to which as we see is a difficult and very
strong fortifications. But the victorious Greacian
army didn’t take them very long to destroy the Tur-
kish batteries. On account the deadly fire of the
Greecian Artilleries they soon seize the Turkish forts
and then the Crown Prinse of Greece order the
general attack from the infantary and horseman.
Then with the enthusiastic cheer the whole Greacian
army rushed like lions. Then the town had to sur-
rend.
“Jeames” writes: —
According to the London papers the Marquis of
Headfort has become a Catholic. This would,
doubtless, be the doing of the Marchioness who was
Kosie Boote, one of the several Gaiety Girls (Zena
Dare and her sister were others) who got their
schooling in a convent. A dozen years ago London
forecasted a rapid and alcoholic career for young
Headfort. He had just entered the “Blues,” and
was going the pace at a brisk canter which promised
shortly to work up into a gallop. Then he met and
fell in love with Rosie, who, if not the loveliest, was
quite the straightest and strongest-minded of her
kind. They married, and the event brought him up
with a round turn. From that day to this he
has been a model nobleman. The young Marchioness
sailed into the society of her husband’s friends and
relations without a struggle. For one thing, she did
not embarrass them by calling for small ports in the
morning hours; assaulting the servants; painting
her face the unfashionable color; and in general be-
having like the stage hussy of a Hall Caine vision.
Like nearly all the musical comedy maidens who
have burst into the peerage of late years, she offended
rather on the side of ultra-gentility. (The genteel
person, male or female, is unpopular among the
best people in Britain to-day.) Her uncompromising
Catholicism, of course, exasperated the Headfort
family, which has always been strongly Protestant.
The baptising of the children in the Pope’s faith ex-
asperated them still more. A good reason for this
is to be found in the fact that suitable Catholic
partis are almost as rare in England to-day as they
were when Dizzy deplored their dearth half a cen-
tury ago.
It is astonishing how well these Burke-and-Stage
unions turn out. I can’t recall half a dozen un-
happy ones in the past decade. I ascribe it to the
fact that the musical comedy wife enters on the con-
tract determined to play the game—knowing well
that however dull the game may turn out, it is
bound to be pleasanter than that which she has been
at on the boards. A big proportion of society girls
marry with a different point of view. They are
gaining nothing in the way of comfort or a secured
future. So they claim —openly or otherwise —a free
leg as one of the terms of the matrimonial contract.
And that leads, almost always, to trouble. The suc-
cessful wife is she who first attaches her husband’s
affections to her with the most powerful chains in
her ironmongery store; and then watches him like
an eagle or vulture.
Manuscript found in a bottle: —
Providence is always overdoing it. Perhaps it is
because it is such a large concern that it ladles out
such absurdly large helpings of rain and wind. Man
seems to spend half his time with his collar off
sprinkling the garden with a hose; during the other
half, his hat has to be tied on with string while he
digs a channel for the stormwaters to rush off his
sodden premises. The Ma State had wanted, rain
before May (or was it April?) arrived, garbed in
slate-colored clouds and with a double rainbow in her
hair. Then something started prodding Providence,
and Providence woke up with a start and pulled
over the whole celestial sideboard. After that, all
days were the same slate color, so that you could
hardlv tell 12 noon from 6 p.m., and the heavens
were filled with wind and rain, and the man who
got separated from his umbrella was a lost and
sodden soul. The morning paper that arrived on the
doorstep like the remnant of a burst pudding called
the misery “a disturbance,” and pretended to keep
some account of the falling wet in hundreds of
“points.” Sometimes it mentioned casually that the
humidity on the previous day had been “100 p.c.” ;
and the baffled reader with the cold in his head
wondered dully if that meant he was breathing
water, and, if so, whether he was entitled to regard
himself as a fresh-water fish. Presently the official
caster of horoscopes, or someone of the kind, re-
marked in a grave official voice that the wretched-
ness was “passing away” ; and immediately the voice
of the prophet was drowned in a white roar of rain,
and people had to bail out their goloshes before they
could put them on again. About that time, the
slamming of household artillery reverberated in the
morning pudding on the doorstep. The lowlying
parts of the State were flooded, and farming folk
were sitting on ice-cold iron roofs burning gun-
powder as a means of hailing the rescue boats that
were going to and fro amongst the trees. One family
put to sea, so to speak, on tables, while the house
cow looked on from an island that had once been
a hill. The mail trains were pulled up on the edge
of things, until such time as the rails should re-
appear, and one hamlet reported briefly over a wet
wire tenanted by drenched birds, and strung on poles
covered w th refugee ants and minor jim-jams, that
it had had two floods within seven days. Then there
was a long silence, and, because there was nothing
else doing, another black storm blew along and wept
superfluously over the remains, like the forty-third
widow of a dead bigamist. P.S. —No time to write
any more. I have provis'oned my raft —made out of
two barrels and the counter —and intend to try and
row myself ashore with the cribbage board. This
letter goes in the last empty bottle. —Yours, Bill
Spreeover.
“H.A.L.”: Looking at things generally, the
time seems to me ripe for the appointment
of a Public Curser. There are a lot of
people, animals and politicians, as well as
wet days, “dead marines,” Freetraders, bald
poets, and cold soup that require ground and
lofty execration, but the art of execrating
has been neglected? Where, for instance, do
we hear anything so comprehensive as befell
one Spinoza, bad- in 1656: —
By the sentence of the Angels, by the decree of
the Saints, we anathemalise, cut off, curse and exe-
crate Baruch Spinoza in the presence of these sacred
books with the six hundred and thirteen precepts
which are written therein, with the Anathema where-
with Joshua anathematised Jericho; with the curs-
ing wherewith Elisha cursed the children, and with
all the cursings which are written in the Book of
the Law: cursed when he lieth down, and cursed
when he riseth up, cursed when he goeth out and
cursed when he cometh in, the Lord pardon him
never; the wrath and fury of the Lord burn upon
this man and bring upon him all the curses which
are written in the Book of the Law. The Lord blot
out his name under Heaven. The Lord set him apart
for destruction from all the tribes of Israel with all
the curses of the firmament which are written in the
Book of the Law.... Then shall no. man speak to
h : m, no man write to him, no man show him any
kindness, no man stay under the same roof with him,
no man come nigh him.
That is mild to some of the great masters’
efforts ; still, it is very fair and worthy of en-
couragement in these dull days. I move that
a Chair for Cursing be established at the
University.
Law-suit squashing is becoming quite the
thing in the S. Aus. Supreme Court. Lately
it was Judge Murray who cut in at the start
of a case between the Agricultural Society
and one of its best supporters, and told them
to settle it in a give-and-take wav, like
good fellows. Now it is Judge Gordon on
that bitterest of all things, a church dispute.
It was a story straight out of Crockett, only
Lutheran, instead of “Wee Free. The
parties were all Germans from up-country,
llage claimed to have a resolution expelling
him from Church membership set aside.
Pastor Hessfeldt said llage had been thrown
out for saying evil things about Reimann;
and llage replied that he hadn t said half
the things alleged, and it was a long while
ago, anyway. Vv hen they had got so far,
the Judge told them they would probably
all go broke before the matter was threshed
out, and he practically insisted on a confer-
ence, to which he himself lent an ear. Re-
sult, Reimann and llage to shake hands,
llage to go back into the Church, nobody to
refer to the matter in future, and each side
to pay its own costs. Next day it was a
promising breach-of-promise that was
squashed. No love-letters read, no (“Roars
of laughter”), only a verdict for a reason-
able sum by agreement. What the lawyers
think of all this is not known. What they
say is that they are delighted, and that his
Honor has but anticipated their dearest wish.
“Subbubs”: Without a doubt Private En-
terprise does things better —for itself. Take
the Manly Ferry Service. During the gale,
on Thursday last, it cut down its day ser-
vice to one boat per hour, and after 7
p.m. it cut off the dashed thing altogether.
Why? To ensure the safety of the public?
Not a bit of it. If a ferry boat can cross
the Heads at 1 p.m. and 2 p.m. it can
likewise perform the feat at 1.30 p.m. And if
a co. can safely run boats when the gale is
at its height at 8.45 and 9.15 a.m. it can
obviously do the same at 7 p.m. and
thereafter when the wind has started to die
down. The explanation of the hourly ser-
vice, and of the total stoppage after 7
p.m. is purely a financial one. There is no
money to speak of in a day service when the
weather is as wet and cold as a drowned
whale; and none whatever in a night service
in such conditions. But the ferry co.
has no more equitable right to take such
matters into consideration than, say. an hotel
has to close its doors on such days as it
reckons that there may be little doiug in the
drinking line. For years past, whenever
the weather has been so unpleasant that no
one would be likely to use the Manly
steamers save residents —which is to say.
season ticket-holders —the company has seized
on the first pretext to shut down on its ser-
vice. What is wrong, in the first place, with
the co. being forced to provide boats which
shall be safe between the Heads in any
weather? Failing that, it seems to me, anti-
Socialist though I am, in a political sense,
that it is up to the Government to take oyer
this service and so run it that a big section
of law-abiding citizens will not be trans-
formed from time to time into users of ob-
scene and furious language, and searchers
after comfortless pub bedrooms, and hurried
buyers of tooth-brushes and chill new night-
wear.
“The Religious Editor”: These bishops
can be terribly sarcastic when they are
roused. The other day, his Gaiters of
London got off the following: “The average
Englishman, by putting 3d. in the offer-
tory, expected to get a good vicar, two hand-
some curates, and a peal of bells.” It is a
bit galling to any person with a sense n t
values; but the trouble is that the ChSJ*
is all the time forcing itself on the EngSh
man, and demanding hard cash of him w h
out troubling to provide him with anv’nfVT
things he really wants. If the E n L m he
in return for his collection plate thrummer’
demanded a good horse trainer, two hand’
some barmaids and a motor-ear the
would be even madder than he is already. 01 ’
A retired bucolic person, one James
Young, when invited at Geelong (Vic ) 7
explain why he failed to enrol under th!’
Federal Electoral Act, removed the follow
ing from the place where mother nuts
mustard plaster:— ttlu
That it is not the will of Christ, my Saviour n, .
I should allow myself to be entangled again
political affairs of this sinful world, and who bv m
death on the cross at the hands of its rulers Lu
ered my soul and translated me into H.s v
kingdom. As to who is to be elected to the
of this Christ-rejecting world is no concern of
To this present evil world I am now a S« r
work as Christ’s ambassador is the election of men tn
His kingdom only.
Young said he was sane, and the Bench
apparently took his word for it and fine
him 10s. 11
[Albert John Owen, 129 Grey-street, East
bourne.] el
CHARLADY WINTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
For close on a quarter of a mile along the main
promenade on Manly beach the sea had dashed
against the wall with such violence that the great
stretch of sand was gutted out to a depth of 10ft
....The wind carried several people off their feet
and flung them against the rails of the bridge
The penetrating force of the showers so water-logged
some of the roofs of the tramcars that the electric-
lighting installation of the cars was affected
Reports of recent gale.
With her broom of wind and her bucket of rain
Comes old Mrs. Winter to clean up again.
She tumbles the waters and sluices the sands,
And sweeps Summer’s rubbish with busy, wet hands.
The chocolate wrapper thrown down by the flapper,
The weather-stained paper, the cigarette butt,
The waste of the hamper—she makes it all scamper
Along with the rubbish of Wowser and “nut.”
The cliffs and the beaches —the long harbor reaches,
Wherever a littering human has been,
She splashes and dashes. For next Summer’s
mashes
The bays will put on a. new mantle of green.
For she scrubs and she rubs in a lunatic way,
And gushes, and rushes, and flushes all day;
While you hear her at night
Working on without light,
Without gossip or tea,
Or a word re her fee.
Then she never begs clothes,
Or looks in with a nose
That is red to report that she’ll “soon ’ave ter
stop—
That unless someone ’ere kin run out fer a drop
O’ dry gin, ’cause ’er ’art is that bad! —yes, thank
you
As it’s ’ere in the ’ouse, bottled lager will do!”
Yes, she’s rather untidy—she sighs and she sobs;
But we wish that Ma Winter —hardworking Ma
Winter
Would take on our everyday, cleaning-up jobs!
N.S.W.
KODAK.


m
tski4 m&'Jx V f&Z
r
m
■r " •
mm ...
m. - -
■! .
«
T'V. -*4
mm
jm
m
m
#
•?
rr*S
-,
®fs§p
HR -
oiag ’ "*■
* -1. -. 1-
l *
?*>£
£&Jr
Ssfc#3 gßg* *
&!£&&&<
-••: v<iW
si
iS ;?> %
-,rv
Mrofta
HP.
A
*
i
%
0E
m
Y
%
« *-
f a-
/
f
im
•• Sf
ww«
8
3$ *
It
>l"" v v MM
l r C^ 1
>, ' . £ ssg|
SB*
• -•
&SBg
mmm
'Mm-* •
k •***
23*?-
/•; •&*
Si
Si
‘•»s
at®
yge|
8?
mil
'•X<*
m
w.
m*.
mm
m
m:- 9
m
W 4
-&•
v? '<
Going Anywhere
Next Wednesday?
AVant to spend a really enjoyable afternoon out in the
fresh air?
Then jump on a Zetland Tram and take a run out to
Victoria Park. There you will see a series of keenly-
contested Races that will appeal to your best Sporting
instincts.
Victoria Park is one of the finest and best laid-out
Courses in Australia.
Every comfort and convenience is provided to make your
enjoyment complete.
First-class Band in attendance.
Remember
VICTORIA PARK RACES
Next Wednesday, May 28.
First Race, 2 p.m.
Programmes, etc., from
THE SECRETARY,
Victoria Park Racing Club,
21 Imperial Arcade,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.


Teething
troubles
—with the accompanying
inflammation, restlessness,
irritability, broken sleep,
and swelling of the gums—
can be overcome. SCOTT’S
Emulsion gives the extra
strength the child needs,
and aids the easy develop-
ment of strong, firm, white
teeth.
“My son, suffering with whooping
cough and teething, was wretchedly
thin and weak. After taking SCOTT’S
the whooping cough is quite cured, he
is cutting his teeth without any trouble
and looks quite strong and robust.” —
Mrs. Lilliebridge, 5, Wells Street,
Redfern, Sydney, N.S.W. 22/5/12
Mark the cure —then insist on genuine
scons
Emulsion
TRADE
>4
MARK
SHORT Stories, Novels,
Poems, etc., Wanted.
We. are commissioned by a well-known
weekly journal to offer prizes of £lO 10s.
and £5 ss. for the best short stories sub-
mitted before July 31, 1913.
We also have a purchaser for a novel by
an Australian writer.
Highest prices secured for Short Stories,
Poems, Special Articles, etc.
MS. revised and every assistance given to
beginners.
1913 Prospectus posted free on request.
Australasian Literary Agency,
Pendennis Chambers, Sydney.
ANTINEURASTHIN
TREATMENT OF
NERVOUS AND WASTING DISEASES.
The wonderful properties of Antineurasthin (Leci-
thin in an absolutely pure form ) for successfully
treating all nerve maladies, Dyspepsia, Anaemia,
Rheumatism, etc., and imparting permanent mental
and nerve force, reflect the latest and most important
achievements in medical science.
One of the most important of the wonderful re-
sults obtained by this treatment is that not alone
does it build up the nervous system by feeding the
brain and nerve-cells with their natural food ele-
ment, but on account of its beneficial action upon
the process of nutrition and upon the blood, the
whole general health shows prompt improvement,
particularly in wasting diseases.
A FREE TRIAL.
In order that the worth of Antineurasthin may be
tested, a sample supply, together with a treatise on
nervous maladies, will be forwarded to any address
in Australia on receipt of 2d. in stamps to cover
postage by the wholesale representative, H. A. God-
dard No. 3 Australasian Chambers, 406-414 Queen
Street, Brisbane; or Branches: 194 Vickery’s Cham-
bers, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney; 9-15 Safe Deposit
Buildings, Queen Street. Melbourne; 3 Ellershaw’s
Buildings, Cliff Street, Fremantle; 213 Smeeton’s
Building®. Queen Street. Auckland.
Serial No. 810. —Guaranteed under the Pure Foods
Act of New South Wales by H. A. Goddard, Sydney,
to contain not less than 10 per cent. Pure Lecithin.
No. 810. [2
, Any of the children pale,
thin, delicate? We strongly
recommend Ayer’s Sarsapa-
rilla. Makes rich, red blood.
Gives strength to the mus-
cles. Improves the appetite.'
4 CORRESPONDENT writes: "‘There is
always one feature in The Lone
Hand each month that is alone worth the
price charged for the whole number.” The
price of The Lone Hand is 6d.
UNCLAIMED MONEY & PROPERTY.
nOUGAL’B REGISTER to nfxt-of-kin,
CHANCERY HEIRS, LEGATEES, Ac., .'fee., price
5/-, 480 pages. Robertson’s, booksellers, Melbourne,
Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, or Dougal A Co.
Claims investigated and carried through
00UCAL & C0.,151. STRAND, LONDON, ENCLAND.
( Kstahlisherl over HO VenrK.)
Famished
Hair Cells
Hair-failure is due to starved roots and cells.
Ad the legion of hair troubles vanish if you
Strike at the root. It is the same in every ill
—you must go right to the heart of the trouble.
What the grey, languishing, dropping hairs
call for
Is an adequate food— a real nutriment.
ROWLANDS MACASSAR OIL gives an
immediate new vitality to the feeble roots and
the “ feeding ” cells beneath them. It produces
a soft, silky sheen and texture; a full, luxuriant
grow.h, radiating a true natural hair -health
Softly perf itned with Otto of Hosts. Supplied
in Gold Tint for fair hair.
ROWLAND’S
Macassar Oil!
is sold by Stores, Chemists, and
ROWLANDS, 67, Hatton Garden,
London.
Avoid cheap imitations with the same
o’ simitar name.
The EDISON
AMBEROLA
The Edison Amberola is the highest development of
phonographic art. It combines the highest mastery
of craftsmanship with perfection of sound repro-
duction. It plays both Standard (2-minute)
Amberol (4-minute) Records, and is obtainable in
a variety of finishes in Mahogany or Oak to har-
monise with the furnishings of any home.
The Amberola is fitted with a new-style repro-
ducer, which, with the ageing of the wood, assures a
fi 11, mellow tone far beyond anything heretofore
possible in sound-reproducing instruments.
Any Edison dealer can supply you with the Amberola.
Ask the nearest for full details, or write us direct
for latest lists of Edison Phonographs.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD,
(Wholesale only),
Dept. 8., 364-372 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Have You Tried Herbs
for Your Illness ? :
For hundreds of years the common, simple herbs were all that were used as medicines—
and the people in the olden times used to live longer and healthier.
I believe Herbs will often cure where other treatment fails——in fact, I know many, many
cases where this has been so. And I want you to try the simple, natural Herb Cure for
your complaint. Tell me your symptoms and all particulars—l will send you a full
month’s supply of Herbs, suited for your illness, with full direction how to use them.
For this full month’s-course I charge £2/2/- It will prove the best investment you ever
made. Try it! Write to-day, and send postal notes of any State.
J-
Ph. C., M.P.S.,
Botanic Pharmacist, BRISBANE, Q.
HI
»
A Trial Will
Convince You
A
that Pebeco Tooth Paste is different from, and better than,
ordinary dentifrices. Are you sure you derive from your
present dentifrice the greatest possible benefit? The fact
that dentists and doctors have recommended Pebeco for 20
years is a guarantee of its real worth. You yourself will
recognise its excellent properties if you try it.
OBTAINABLE ALL CHEMISTS.
Trial Tube with useful Book free for three penny stamps,
on application to the Sole Agent:—
O. ARNOLD
(Dept. M), 6 O’Connell Street,
(WHOLESALE ONLY).
Sydney
V
Hunyadi Janos
Disorders of the digestive system are amongst the most common
of all human ills. Fortunately Nature has placed an unfailing
remedy within the reach of every household.
A wineglassful of Hunyadi Janos Natural Aperient Water will be
found the safest and most trustworthy dissipator of such lesser maladies
as Constipation, Indigestion, B.liousness, Torpid Liver and
Hemorrhoids. Get a bottle to-day. It is small in cost and
contains many doses. All chemists sell it.
i I
The Famous NATURAL Aperient Water
V
You can improve your appearance and protect your health by "rowing
a fine, full moustache, by the help of
CAPILLARINE
Follow the directions and it will not fail. Hundreds of men have
tested it with success during the past 30 years.
Price 10 6 JAR, Post Free.
The C. & A. Moustache Trainer, worn at night,
shapes the moustache. 2/6, 3/6, 5/6, Fost tree.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654- George Street, Sydney
Established 30 Years.
m
The World-Wide Whiskey.’
RURKE'<f
★★★IRISH
WMISK JE y
Exquisitely mellow, delicate in flavour, light and
digestive, with a popularity of over 60 years.
E. &J. Burke, Ltd. (Paid-up Capital £1,100,000. Established 1849),
are by far the largest Shippers of Bottled Whiskey from u
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
A.J.L.: For the thousandth time, we can’t
find space in this or any other column to say whether
paragraphs are accepted or not. If they are accepted
they are printed; if they are not printed, it’s an in-
delicate hint that they have been declined.. . Gouger:
Letter addressed to Bloomfield River, via Cooktown.
. . . .Jessie F. : Even if it were suitable in other re-
spects it has come too late. ... W. H Rayner: No
space. .. .Sparks: They don t even sparkle. . . .Gordon
G.: Why trouble to resurrect Tucker of Melb. ? In a
literary sense he belongs to the dead ages....
A.E.8.W.: Unable to trace “The Swiftness.” Guess
the post office has swallowed it. Returning three,
other items with the stamp which we, apparently,
did not receive.... Bellerive: Prevailing wet weather
makes us feel warlike: —
A BRAVE SPY.
Captured was a spy during
The scene of War,
And sentenced to death
By court-martial Law.
Don’t veil my eyes, he
Did fiercely cry,
Pull off the rag, I’m
Not afraid to die.
With folded arms he stood
To meet his Doom.
The drums rolled and a
Rifle volley did boom.
The execution was over,
The fatal wretch lay dead.
And was roughly consigned
To his burial bed.
. . .. J. MeK.: It was raining heavily when your
poem drooped into the basket ; also, a man next door
was hammering something (possibly it was a coffin),
and a cold, decrepit ancient with reticent, tucked-in
whiskers was feebly ringing an auction bell at an
indifferent world in goloshes. .. .L.J.V.: Nice, fresh
idea, isn’t it?....Mary Ann: Back to the washing-
up.... R.D.: Very plain tales slightly tinged with
dullness... R. 11.: Your homely word painting:—
A COUNTRY SCENE.
The whitening stumps are standing around
The green brown grass is long and lush
The stock contented upon the ground
A peaceful scene is o’er the bush
Gum trees in plots are here and there
To give the shade the stock's require
With a foal at feet a creamy mare
Is feeding about down on a mire
The bush is alive with caroling birds
That shine like silk in the sunshine rays
Their songs are sweeter by far than chords
Sent from a harp that a minstrel plays
A range of hills with deep, shaded guil es
Close to a homestead surrounded with vine
Where ferns are waving in winds that sullies (?)
This is a picture that most divine.
....Concertina: Not quite up to print 1eve1....
Inko: Verses apparently written in a mixture com-
posed of two parts of water to one of ink. Do you
wear glasses ? We d 0... . Lash : Rotten. ... W. R.: Good
idea, but handling inexpert. Will look at it again
and see if it can be trimmed down. As written, it
covers too much space.... Merlin: Sometimes it
staggers and sometimes it falls with a crash. . . .
W.W.R.: We observe you pedalling furiously three
laps or so behind the whirring field, and give you an
encouraging cheer as you plug past. .. .Jay S R.:
Misrht be marketable elsewhere. A bit out of our
line....F.W. (V.): One symptom: “When impend-
ing elections cloud the serenity of the political blue.”
Another: “If you want to speed up your knowledge
and arrive at an earlier understanding of the genus
homo." Um ! Afraid there’s no hone for you.
“Genus homo” is right off. .. . Snarks: Come right in
and pour out your soul to the length of four lines: —
Mayhap they had no soul, no shine,
Those gems from out my casket;
But I'll curse you for a hungry swine,
Thou gaping greedy basket.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
H. D. O’R.: Try to collect some brains.... O.
Daly: The poorest drink or drunk joke we have met
this year. .. . 5.8.: Tooth picture received. Tooth
picture rejected Tooth picture on the back track for
home.... Dan: It wouldn’t reproduce well, the penc 1
being too dim. Also, the feet of the almost nude girl
are absurd, not to say insane. It is a dreadful thing
to have mad feet. .. .H.G.P.: Scorn and oblo-
quy were heaped upon your pictures t'U at last
there was no room for any more scorn and the
obloquy began to fall off through sheer overcrowd-
ing. .. .J.P.D.: (1) Only two ordinary people speak-
ing to each other. (2) Only three ordinary people
speaking to one another.
There is an odd “improvement scheme
on foot in Adelaide. Hindley-street used to
be the principal thoroughfare—shops at one
end and residences at the other. Fifty years
ago, however, trade moved across King Wil-
liam-street into Rundle-street, and the Hind-
ley-street houses went to the Afghan and the
Chow and the kind of white woman who is
likely to marry her discolored relative Shem.
Never was there a slump more complete.
The top 50yds. or so, nearest King William-
street, were saved by the Theatre Royal and
a fashionable milliner’s, but beyond that
point a rigid invisible line was drawn. Lat-
terly, the Coffee Palace and West’s Pictures
have enticed people another 100yds., and now
the big local shopkeepers are clamoring for
brighter lighting, and, in general, the re-
moval of all reproach from the name. But
it will be hard work. Fashion the tone
in these matters. Also, the nanle has too
often been heard in the police court. As for
Light Square, the handsome enclosure half-
way along the street, to say of any woman
that she frequented it would probably lead
to a libel action. Colonel Lifeht, the de-
signer of the city, was splendidly interred
in the centre of the square when he died,
but half a century later, whe,n ,the time
came for a statue, it had to be put far away
in Victoria Square to give it a fair chance.
Many people think that the uoper-half of
the street —the whole thoroughfare is two-
thirds of a mile long—should be given an-
other start under a new name.
The efficiency of the Postal Department in
Melbourne was flatteringly acknowledged,
the other week, by an amazing citizen named
Samuel Slade. He wrote to the P.M.G.
stating that a letter had come to him from
England addressed merely, “Mr. Samuel
Slade, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.”
There had been very little delay in the de-
livery of the letter, and the recipient reck-
oned that great care and sagacity had been
shown by the post-office employees who
handled his correspondence. As a matter
of fact, there are only two Sam Slades in
the alphabetical section of the Melbourne
Directory, and this particular Sam is one
of them. He stood an even money chance
of getting his letter on the day of its arrival.
And if he hadn’t got it by the next day, at
latest, he might have reasonably proclaimed
the inefficiency of the Postal Department
from his own house top.
[lnsinuations that this is political are repudiated
by Enwryp Fisiifr. The Bulletin Office, 369 Col-
lins-stvpet, Melbourne.]


ft
rip'
/sr-y- }>
B
r<~
,4iV
'f
<^lC4#:V^4#A
AA'\ rjr : A-'::
rwvj&fiJwSjsa&r v J y-as. /fW^^-'/ r ✓-
Jp 1 \ wmAfc'^AL
# f y J nflp f-/
:fj. ■ ' .>• •• ' -'A. i
/-N^
23
m
\*m
tfH
vt£*r A* 'J?|3 * <•*-.> 1 ; V
|ll : .Jl r :A \. ';■ y\
uil fe#i;, mAmm l
M\ <Aij- ■ ■ '■'' *\. \ h
si «■ ; \ ,
# , ■ 'r'- : -K( /
i ; -
m
i.US
Mm.
v
>■>,
P*» s
PPiMp
§§§B#AASl® i
ifelg^sSMSS^
v *
SS#»
iisiS
H
mh\
i'U
1
/*S®ss§s
;: ' AAAfy
I
ftp-
tMPMNH
jyp
-
gfttf
wi&imiv
v->
'
•>
<
:,H
v.P
Aft*#??
>
-’.V ■•,
•rtSTT •
ftft/ftp#) i-vv
-■ v-
" .,/$
WSvast.
*>«♦*•• ¥ £%v2*A&
AA/
>M
v -'\_>
1
<tl
v
■ ■■■,.
i
II ,C? C
C,
Hi
'>■
- a*
■'.
..-;
l9 r "
;»v.-«
cV
.v =
S*'
-•fsi
v>
'•>*''
AA'A'A^
-•' : ; i’V
?
'f*&&
- A
A
A
lAS
a>A
*®P!
m
i
7
ASS
IfIMI
■•■'» <
s S?€
Iftffll
nHiil
5®
Ililll
'•"'V
III!
a:
V-.Cfr
if?i
i
Wv r A'^-^’->
1 V v>
sS»^r^fsC
111
.--A
ffl
aß*
■ : , >•
pfl
w
A-
PlalM
•Jf*
o M t /
« r- 3 o
/•k
V'
((
Cobra, Boot PolisK
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Shines upon
The ocean blue.
When his flag streams
In the breeze
Foes are polished
Off the seas.
From his course
Fie never swerves,
Peace and leather
He preserves,
And the people
Crowd the quay
When the COBRA
Puts to sea.


AUNDERS
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER *
NEW JEWELLERY DESIGNS.
CHOICE,
EXCLUSIVE
LOW PRICED.
25 -
Lady's Solid Silver, Hunting
Keyless, LEVER WATCH, f
plate, full jewelled, patent ad-
justed balance, 25/- Higher
grade, 35/-, £2, £2/10/-,
£3/10/- Solid Gold, £3,
£3/10/-, £4, £5, £6.
£5.
18ct. GOLD, set 5
pure, double-cut
Diamonds.
£6/10/-
18ct. GOLD, set 6
Diamonds, 6 Ru-
bies, Sapphires or
Olivines.
20/-
9ct. GOLD, set Pearls and Rubies, Garnets or
Amethysts.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting KEYLESS
LEVER, non-magnetic, full jewelled,
patent time spring, compensation balance,
dust-proof cases, 30/- Extra jewelled,
35/-, £2, £2/10 £3, up to £lO,
Rolled Gold. 55/-, £4/4/-, £5/5/-
Solid Gold, £6/10/-, £7/10/- up.
We Pay Postage
on all Jewellery
£22/10/-
15ct. GOLD, set Dia
monds and Pearls.
18ct. GOLD, set
Diamonds, Rubies
or Sapphires.
25/-
9et. GOLD, set Pearls
and Amethysts.
MMM
15ct. GOLD
NECKLACE, set
Diamonds and
Tourmalines,
£l5.
15ct. Gold NECK-
LACE, set Dia-
monds and Aqua-
marines, £l5.
20/-
9ct. GOLD, richly en-
graved; 15ct., 35/-
3k
So/-
35/-
Solid GOLD PRESENTA-
TION LINKS, hand-made,
richly engraved, any in-
itials. Extra quality,
50/-. 18ct. Gold, £3.
.. ■-
"^a-*Zr
it.
Stsr-^r
£2
£2/10/-
Solid Silver Patent Expanding LEVER WATCH BRACE-
LET, accurate, reliable. Solid Gold, £5, £5/10/*,
£6/10/-, £7/10/-
807-817 GEORGE STREET, Opp. Railway Station, SYDNEY.
£lO/10/-
15ct. GOLD, set Dia-
monds and Kublea.
£lO.
18ct. GOLD, set 3
pure, double-cut
Diamonds.
25/-
9ct. GOLD, set
Pearls and Ame-
thysts or Garents.
£l2/10/-
18ct. GOLD, set
pure, double-cut
Diamonds.
£lO.
18ct. GOLD, set
pure, double-cut
Diamonds.
1
s
£=J
Lady’s Black, Open Face
KEYLESS WATCH,
strong, accurate, 8/6.
Higher grade, 10/-"
15/-, 20/-, 25/- Sil-
ver, 25/-, 35/-, £2.
Solid Gold, £2.
22/6.
9ct. GOLD, set Pearls and Colored Stones,
or all Pearls.
We send our
Jewellery
Catalogue
FREE.
15-
/
*s GEORGE S\
Gent.’s Nickel Open Pace KEYLESS
LEVER, , full jewelled, patent adjusted
balance, non-magnetic time spring, dust
and water proof cases, 15/- Higher
Grade, 25/-, 30/-. Solid Silver, £2.
FELT MTS
WRITE
NOW.
"y j
§ j
POST
FREE.
v'
“THE TRAQUAIR”
Smartest Shape of the Season —an
ideal hat for autumn & winter. Worn by
women & girls everywhere. In black ::
white, navy & colors. Sent post free any-
where on receipt of 7/6 postal note.
MILLER’S
270 Bourke St., Melbourne.
118 Bundle Sf. Adelaide 155 Pitt Sf. Sydney
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
J ARRAU Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant=
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINCERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIO.
68* PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
/
ARABI'S CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN-HENNA,
for Grey Hair, the best and cheapest, Is, and 2s. 6d.
(Observe signature, ‘ Alfred Ardley, No. 7410.)
Avoid the counterfeiter (same case, same bottle).
Genuine obtainable: —
SYDNEY: MARK FOY’S, ALL CHEMISTS, W.
ASSOMIJLL and Stores.
MELBOURNE: EDMENT’S, FOY’S -COLE’SI, MAC-
LELLAN’S. ALL CHEMISTS, W. ASSOMULL.
Pre-eminent
the Queen of Dress Fabrics is the
with all its charming lustrous
finish; draping exquisitely to suit
the clinging fashions of the day
yet sold at a price within the
reach of all.
DO NOT TOLERATE A SUBSTITUTE.
VELVETEEN,
Every Yard you buy
should be stamped L’O’U’l'S
MM
-
m
ONLY a fortnight now to the big Bris-
bane Cup Carnival. Why not make
the trip? You’ll just revel in the
bright, warm, sunshiny days of a Brisbane
June, and the racing will "be of the highest
order.
All the city will be en fete during Cup
Week, with a wealth of attractions for the
holiday-maker that are quite unique.
Full information from
C. DYSON-KOLLAND,
Sec. Q.T.C.,
BRISBANE.
Schute, Bel! & Go.
LIMITED,
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS,
44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sell on Commission only.
New and thoroughly up-to-
date Stores. Inspection
invited. Personal atten-
tion a feature of the
business.
A Steadily growing com-
pany.
WOOL STORES Harris Street, Pyrmont.
PRODUCE STORES—At hi one Place.
THE BEST STOIIIES written in Australia appear in THE
LONE HAND each month. Price Sixpence.
r—T>
Registered
NOTE THE SLOT
% . The Best Tooth Powder
- in The Best Container
Jewsbury&Brown's
Iff Oriental
Tooth Powder
JSSI!
6-&
Y/'
in the
United Kingdom
All the Family may
use the same box.
WHOLESALE AGENTS in SYDNEY.
Messrs. Elliott Bros. Ltd.
. .F. H Faulding & Co.
HIMROD'S
ASTHMA POWDER
CEYES INSTANT RELIEF.
No matter what your Respiratory
Organs may be suffering from—
whether Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough —you will
find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
CONFIDENTIAL LETTERS
remain Private when the
N.S.C. Copying Book is
You slip your note |»P“ ( d tlie .
holder, write yo»r «« nk)
copy is made as you tv j 0»"
"Letter shows no sign of CopyiJ k
The letter is posted and tniJ
put away. 400 Octavo .lSm.™
in N.5.C.7‘200, r* ia
or 800 Octavo or 400 g/ .
N.S.C./400, Post Free.
Special Small Octavo j p 0 st
ing *2OO copies, for
_ Free; or double .
Zanetic Pens, 3d. do*/.., 2/- Poss. fl f“ 7 ?‘netic Inlr P apet Wh ' C
8x 5, 1/. pkt., 10 x 8,2/- sample of the Znietic r
produces this result, Free, if stamped envdopo sOT Engl aod.
s. B. ZANETIC. Zanetic Works, Welford Road, LblLts
T'f
Wf
A
&
zANmc c< ra G
M


Government Notices.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Notice of Referendums for the Submission to the Electors of Certain Proposed
Laws for the Alteration of the Constitution.
Generaf^in^hc' nam l haV ?, , receiv . cd copies of Writs, issued by His Excellency the Governor-
thfe Commonwealth Electoral n£ a ddressed to the Chief Electoral Officer for the Commonwealth, and to
POSEI) 1 A W S FOR Till’ a i TrSYn'mxT S m Vera ® tates > commanding him and them to cause the PRO-
rused LAWS FOR. ALTEKATJOJf OF THE CONSTITUTION, entitled as follow:
COjNSII 1 uriOry ALTERA CION (TRADE AND COMAfFRCFt iqi9
CONSTITUTION ALTERATION (CORPORATIONS )1915! *’
CONSTITLITION ALTERATION (INDUSTRIAL AIATTFRS") 1912
CONSTITUTION ALTERATION RAILWAY DISPUTFSI 1912
CONSTITUTION ALTERATION (TRUSTS); 1912
to imFi?,1 L h KRA 1 TI { )N (NATIONALISATION OF MONOPOLIES), 1912.
tfon of Memh^ L ,!f’the g i aW ’ ln ? ch State ’ to the . ELECTORS QUALIFIED to VOTE for the elec-
said submission ouse e P resentatlves > an( * appointing the following dates for the purposes of the
til ?’° r li km * the of , the electors Saturday, the 31st day of May, 1913.
Seetiin re » U ; n of , the w f^ its: — , ° n or before Thursday, the 31st day of July, 1913.
PT ACPSannr.iTit.ri the Referendum (Constitution Alteration) Act 1906-12 provides that the POLLING
merit arv “ the , aws of th e Commonwealth for the time being in force relating to Parlia-
mentary Elections shall be polling places for the purposes of the Referendum.
THE PROPOSED LAWS ARE AS FOLLOW:
1. TRADE AND COMMERCE.
A PROPOSED LAW.
To Alter Paragraph (1) of Section Fifty-one of the Constitution,
of rA, 1 ! ' e . n^? ted by the King’s Most Excellent Majesty, the Senate, and the House
of Representatives of the Commonwealth of Australia, with the approval of the elec-
tors, as required by the Constitution, as follows:
COMMERCE) A 19lT 7 CONSTITUTION ALTERATION (TRADE AND
2. Section fifty-one of the Constitution is altered:—
(a,) by omitting from paragraph (i.) the words “with other countries and
among the States” ; and
(b) by adding at the end of paragraph (i.) the words “but not including
trade and commerce upon railways the property of a State, except so
far as it is trade and commerce with other countries or among the
States.’
Preamble.
Short title.
Trade and
commerce.
2. CORPORATIONS.
A PROPOSED LAW.
To alter Paragraph (xx.) of Section Fifty-one of the Constitution,
enacted by the Kings Most Excellent Majesty, the Senate, and the House
of Representatives of the Commonwealth of Australia, with the approval of the elec-
tors, as required by the Constitution, as follows:
™™Jw This Act may be cited as CONSTITUTION ALTERATION (CORPORA-
TIONS) 1912.
2. Section fifty-one,of the Constitution is altered by omitting from paragraph
(xx.) the wo.rds “Foreign corporations, and trading or financial corporations formed
within the limits of the Commonwealth,” and inserting in their stead the words: —
“Corporations including:—
(а) the creation, dissolution, regulation and control of corporations;
(б) corporations formed under the law of a State, includ ng their dissolu-
tion, regulation and control; but not including municipal or govern-
mental corporations, or any corporation formed solely for religious,
charitable, soientific, or artistic purposes, and not for the acquisition
of gain by the corporation or its members ; and
(c) foreign corporations, including their regulation and control.”
Preamble.
Short title.
Corporations.
3. INDUSTRIAL MATTERS.
A PROPOSED LAW.
To Alter Paragraph (xxxv.) of Section Fifty-one of the Constitution,
Be it enacted by the King’s Most Excellent Majesty, the Senate, and the House
of Representatives of the. Commonwealth of Australia, with the approval of the elec-
tors, as required by the Constitution, as follows: —
1. This Act may be cited as CONSTITUTION ALTERATION (INDUSTRIAL
MATTERS) 1912.
2. Seetion fifty-one of the Constitution is altered by omitting from paragraph
(xxxv.) the words “Conciliation and arbitration for the prevention and settlement
of industrial disputes extending beyond the limits of any one State,” and inserting
in their stead the words:—
“Labor, and employment, and unemployment, including:—
(a) the terms and conditions of labor and employment in any trade, in-
dustry, occupation, or calling ;
(b) the rights and obligations of employers and employees;
(cl strikes and lockouts;
(a) the maintenance of industrial peace; and
(e) the settlement of industrial disputes.”
Preamble.
Short title.
Industrial
Matters.
4. RAILWAY DISPUTES.
A PROPOSED LAW.
To Alter the Constitution bv empowering the Parliament to make Laws
with respect to Industrial Disputes in relation to Employment in State Rail-
way Services.
Be it enacted by the King’s Most Excellent Majesty, the Senate, and the House
of Representatives of the Commonwealth of Australia, with the approval of the elec-
tors, as required bv the Constitution, as follows:
1. This Act may be cited as CONSTITUTION ALTERATION (RAILWAY DIS-
PUTES) 1912.
2. Section fifty-one of the Constitution is altered by inserting after paragraph
(xxxv.) the following paragraph:—
“(xxxv,A.) Conciliation and arbitration for the prevention and settlement
of industrial disputes in relation to employment in the railway ser-
vice of a State.”
Preamble.
Short title.
Railway
DispuUs.
5. TRUSTS.
A PROPOSED LAW.
To Alter the Constitution by empowering the Parliament to make Laws
with respect to Trusts, Combinations and Monopolies
Be it enacted by the King’s Most Excellent Majesty, the Senate, and the House
of Representatives of the Commonwealth of Australia, with the approval of the elec-
tors, as required by the Constitution, as follows: —
1. This Act may be cited as CONSTITUTION ALTERATION (TRUSTS) 1912.
2; Section fifty-one of the Constitution is altered by adding at the end thereof
the following paragraph:—
“(xl.) Trusts, combinations, and monopolies in relation to the production,
manufacture, or supply of goods, or the supply of services.”
Preamble.
Short title.
Trusts, combinations,
and monopolies.
6. NATIONALISATION OF MONOPOLIES.
A PROPOSED LAW.
To Alter the Constitution by empowering the Parliament to make Laws
with respect to Industries and Businesses declared to be subject of a monopoly.
Be it enacted by the King’s Most Excellent Majesty, the Senate, and the House
of Representatives of the Commonwealth of Australia, with the approval of the elec-
tors. as required by the Constitution, as follows: —
1. This Act may be cited as CONSTITUTION ALTERATION (NATIONALISA- Short title.
TION OF MONOPOLIES) 1912. . „ , iU
2. The Constitution is altered by inserting, after section fifty-one thereof, the
following section: — , ,
“51A. —(1) When each House of the Parliament, in the same session, has by
resolution, passed by an absolute majority of its members, declared that
the industry or business of producing, mkimfactur.ng or supplying any
specified services, is the subject of a monopoly, the Parliament shall have
power to make laws for carrying on the industry or business by or
under the control of the Commonwealth, and acquiring for that pur-
pose on just terms any property used in connection with the industry
or business. ,
2. This section shall not apply to any industry or business conducted or
carried on by the Government of a State or any public authority con-
stituted under a State.”
Preamble.
Nationalisation
of monopolies.
Dated the 25th day of April, 1913.
JOHN GILBERT McLAREN,
Commonwealth Electoral Officer for the State of New South Wales.
Commonwealth Electoral Office for the State of New South Wales, Sydney.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
THE COMMONWEALTH ELECTORAL ACT, 1902-1911.
ELECTION OF SENATORS.
The following persons have been duly nominated as Candidates for the Election of Senators for the
State of New South Wales, to serve in the Senate of the Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia
from and after the first day of July, 1913:
THOMAS BATHO, 9 Lyndhurst Street, Glebe, Printer.
ALBERT JOHN GOULD, Eynesbury, Edged iff, Solicitor.
JOHN GRANT, 222 Trafalgar Street, Annandale, General Secretary Political Labor League, New South
Wales. „ _
EDWARD DAVIS MILLEN, Cronulla, Grazier.
JAMES OWEN MORONEY, 11 Lambert Street, Camperdown Tobacco Worker.
CHARLES WILT4AM OAKES, The Glen, Jersey Road. Woollahra, Jeweller.
HENRY OSTLER, 279 Balmain Road, Leichhardt, Laborer.
ISAAC MITCHELL SANFORD SMITH, March Street, Orange, Secretary.
DAVID WATSON, Brookstown, Walls end, President Colli£rv Employees Federation.
A Poll vo-ill accordingly be taken at all polling-places within the said State appointed under the law
of the Commonwealth for* the regulation of Parliamentary Elections on SATURDAY, the thirty-first day
of May 1913 The Poll will open at 8 o clock in the morning, and will not close until all the Electors
present in the Polling Booth at 8 o’clock in the evening, and desiring to vote, bav e voted
r J. G. McKAREr*.
Commonwealth Electoral Officer for the State of New South Wales,
May 2 1913. Customs House, Sydney.
___ Government Notices.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of External Affairs.
30th April, 1913.
Port Augusta to Oodnadatta Railway.
Wheels and Axles, 3ft. 6in. Gauge.
addressed to the Secretary,
JL Department of External Affairs, Mel-
I bourne, will be received until 11 a.m. on
Supply and Delivery of 550 Fairs of
17th June, 1913, for the Manufacture,
Wheels and Axles, 3ft. 6in. Gauge.
Forms of Tender, Specification, Conditions
of Contract and Drawings can be seen on
j and after May 6th, 1913, at the following
j offices: Commonwealth Railways, 84 William
Street, Melbourne; Commonwealth Works
Director, Customs House, Sydney: and Com-
monwealth Works Registrars, Brisbane, Ade-
laide, Perth and Hobart; also, at the office
of the High Commissioner, London, on and
! after the sth June.
: The charge for each copy of Specification
I will be £1 Is., and ss. a copy for each Plan,
| which must be paid before the Documents
call be handed over.
Tenders should be endorsed “Tender for
Wheels and Axles, 3ft. Gin. Gauge,” and be
accompanied by Deposit mentioned in the
form of tender.
JOSIAH THOMAS,
Minister of State for External Affairs.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of External Affairs,
30th April, 1913.
Port Augusta to Oodnadatta Railway.
Bogie Cattle Waggons.
TENDERS addressed to the Secretary,
Department of External Affairs, Mel-
bourne, will be received until 11 a.m. on 3rd
June, 1913, for the Manufacture in Austra-
lia, Supply and Delivery of 30 Bogie Cattle
Waggons, 3ft. Gin. Gauge.
Forms of Tender, Specification, Conditions
of Contract and Drawings can be seen on
and after May 6th, 1913. at the following
offices: Commonwealth Railways, 84 William
Street, Melbourne; Commonwealth Works
Director, Customs House, Sydney; and Com-
monwealth Works Registrars, Brisbane, Ade-
laide, Perth and Hobart.
The charge for each copy of Specification
will be £1 Is., and ss. a copy for each Flan,
which must be paid before the Documents
can be handed over.
Tenders should be endorsed “Tender for
Bogie Cattle Waggons, 3ft. 6in. Gauge,” and
be accompanied by the Deposit mentioned
in the form of tender.
JOSIAH THOMAS,
Minister of State for External Affairs.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of External Affairs,
30th April, 1913.
Port Augusta to Oodnadatta Railway.
Sheep WagFf'T’s (4-Wheel).
TENDERS addles, u to the Secretary,
Department of External Affairs, Mel-
bourne, will be received until 11 a.m. on 3rd
June, 1913, for the Manufacture in Aus-
tralia, Supply and Delivery of Fifteen (15)
Sheep Waggons, 3ft. 6in. Gauge.
Forms of Tender, Specification, Conditions
of Contract and Drawings can be seen on
and after May 6th, 1913, at the following
j offices: Commonwealth Railways, 84 William
j Street, Melbourne; Commonwealth Works
| Director, Customs House, Sydney ; and Com-
! monwealth Works Registrars, Brisbane, Ade-
j laide, Perth and Hobart.
The charge for each copy of Specification
will be £1 Is., and ss. a copy for each Flan,
i which must be paid before the Documents
1 can be handed over.
Tenders should be endorsed “Tender for
Sheep Waggons, 3ft. 6in. Gauge,” and be ac-
companied by the Deposit mentioned in the
form of tender.
JOSIAH THOMAS,
Minister of State for External Affairs.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of External Affairs.
Ist May, 1913.
Port Augusta to Oodnadatta Railway.
12-Ton Waggons (4-Wheel).
fTIENDERS addressed to the Secretary,
JL Department of External Affairs, Mel-
bourne, will be received until 11 a.m. on
June 3rd, 1913, for the Manufacture in Aus-
tralia, Supply and Delivery of 80 12-ton
Waggons (4-Wheel), 3ft. Gin. Gauge.
Forms of Tender, Specification, Conditions
of Contract and Drawings can be seen on
and after May 6th, 1913, at the following
offices: Commonwealth Railways, 84 William
Street, Melbourne; Commonwealth Works
Director, Customs House, Sydney ; and Com-
monwealth Works Registrars, Brisbane, Ade-
laide, Perth and Hobart.
The charge for each copy of Specification
will be £1 Is., and ss. a copy for each Plan,
which must be paid before the Documents
can be handed over.
Tenders should be endorsed “Tender for
12-Ton Waggons,” and be accompanied by
the Deposit mentioned in the form of tender.
JOSIAH THOMAS,
Minister of State for External Affairs.
Business Notices.
Souter & Wood,
22 City Chambers, Pirle Street,
ADELAIDE.
Idea Merchants.-———Commercial Artists.
Manufacturers of Advertising Originalities.
milE Best Stories written by Australian
X Writers appear in The Lone Hand
Magazine. Price, 6d. monthly.
Government Notices.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of External Affairs,
Melbourne, 24th April, 1913.
Port Augusta to Oodnadatta Railway.
3ft. oin. Gauge Locomotive Engines and
Tenders.
riIENDEItS addressed to the Secretary,
JL Department of External Affairs, Mel-
bourne, will be received until 11 a.m. on
May 27, 1913, for the Manufacture in Aus-
tralia, Supply and Delivery of Fourteen
(14) Locomotive Engines and Tenders, 3ft.
Gin. Gauge.
Forms of Tender, Specification, Conditions
of Contract and General Arrangement
'Drawings can be seen on and after
! Tuesday, April 29th, 1913, at the following
offices: Commonwealth Railways, 84 William
[ Street, Melbourne; Commonwealth Works
j Director, Customs House, Sydney; and Com-
i monwealth Works Registrars, Brisbane, Ade-
laide, Perth and Hobart.
The charge for each copy of Specification
will be £1 Is., and ss. a copy for each Plan,
J which must be paid before the Documents
1 can be handed over.
Tenders should be endorsed “Tender for
Locomotive Engines and Tenders, 3ft. Gin.
Gauge,” and be accompanied by the De-
posit mentioned in the form of tender.
JOSIAII THOMAS,
Minister of State for External Affairs.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, 7th May, 1913.
Tenders for Hat Ribbons.
TENDERS will be received, subject to
the conditions of tendering, until 12
noon on MONDAY, 2nd JUNE, 1913, for the
supply of Hat Ribbons for the Royal Aus-
tralian Navy.
Sealed samples may be seen at the office
of the Director of Navy Contracts, Navy
Office, Melbourne, and at the Naval Staff
Office, Sydney, Brisbane, Largs Bay (S.A.),
Fremantle and Hobart.
Tenders to be endorsed “Tender for Hat
Ribbons” in top left-hand corner of envelope,
and addressed (if by post, prepaid) to the
Director of Navy Contracts, Navy Office,
Melbourne, or to the Director of Navy Con-
tracts, care of Distrct Naval Officer, Naval
Staff Office, Sydney, Brisbane, Largs Bay
(S.A.), Fremantle or Hobart.
The lowest or any tender will not neces-
sarily be accepted.
Tenders are to be in all cases on the
printed forms which can be obtained as
above.
FRANK G. TUDOR.
For Minister of State for Defence.
Business Notices.
PILE PILLS.
PERMANENT CURE.
MURPHY’sTILE pills.
Non-aperient. A sure and speedy cure for all cases
of Internal and External Piles.
Have Cured Thousands of Cases, some after suffering
over 40 years.
Made and sold by ANDREW MURPHY, WOY
WOY (N.S.W.), Sole Proprietor.
PRICE 3/- Per Box, Post Free.
On Sale at All Druggists and Chemists throughout
the States.
MM
I do use WRIGHT’S
Antiseptic Myrrh
TOOTH SOAP
So have Beautiful Teeth
and a Sweet Breath. Pre-
serves the enamel. Heals the
gums. Removes tartar. It’s
entirely free from acids, and
all smart dentists recommend
its constant use. Your address
on a penny pos'card, sent to
us. will bring you a trial sample free. Large box sent,
post paid, for One Shilling in stamps. Look out!
rhert are imitations . Sold by Chemists everywhere.
CHAS. WRIGHT CHEMICAL CO.
Detroit, Mich.. U.S.A.
MOPB.-L"
e t>
THE HEART OK THE AUTOMOBILE—
Famous Sc hcblcr Carburetor
The best Carburetor for ALL PETROL ENCINES
—either Land or Marine, Stationary or Moving:.
The Schebler makes your engine develop
greater horse power for a less consumption of
fuel.
The Schebler holds many world’s records.
Booklet and all information free.
Correspondence invited.
ROBERT C. SWAN & CO. LTD.,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Sole Agents for Australia.
A MONTHLY GUIDE for everything Aus-
tralian. That’s Th« Lone Hand. “A
marvellous sixpenn’orth ! ”


Write
for a
Copy
ot Our
Catalog:.
M
Abbey Shoes
ARE
the standard of Quality Foot-
wear. They are worn by men
of fashion, bankers, professional
and business men everywhere,
because of their correct style,
superior quality of materials,
and workmanship, accurate fit,
their comfort and wear.
The Boot we illustrate is a
smart, made-to-order style. All
patent Derby Bal., Leather-
lined, 32/6.
Same style in highest-grade
Dark Tan Willow Calf, 30/-
Postage extra.
ABBEY,
313 George Street
Between G.P.O. and Hunter Street,
222 Pitt Street,
Oppasite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
ARE YOU
DEAF?
If you are deaf, or going deaf, you will be glad to
hear of a simple and scientific device which restores
hearing, no matter how old you are. No mystery or
secrecy about it; we describe it fully, and explain
.just how it acts. You use spectacles as sight magni-
fiers, and in the same way you use this sound magni-
fier to hear better. Unlike spectacles, the Wilson
Common-sense Ear-Drums are invisible and comfort-
able. No one can tell you are wearing them. They
rest the ear nerves by taking the strain oft' them —the
strain of trying to hear indistinct sounds. What a
relief to have done with that tiring strain. Being
made of the softest Para rubber they cannot be felt,
even when the head rests on a pillow. For the same
reason, a blow on the side of the head will not hurt
the ear. They protect the tender inner parts of the
ear, that are so sensitive, from cold winds, dust, sud-
den and piercing sounds.
So that you may clearly understand how the Sound
Magnifiers restore hearing, we give an illustration of
one as it lies in the ear. You will notice that the
Sound Magnifier is shaped like a trumpet, and so con-
veys even the faintest sounds right to the natural drum.
Being of the softest rubber, it cannot l |,ir t the ear.
It fits the orifice of the ear
with precision and comfort.
The division that runs
across the mouth is to al-
low the removal and inser-
tion of the Ear-Drum, and
to brace it.
The shape of the Wilson
Ear-Drum has been chosen
after years of experience as
the best adapt-
ed to carry the
faintest sound.
Of course, if
you have lost
the h e a r i ng-
nerve corm
pletely, or were
born deaf, we
cannot pretend
to cure you. Only a miracle could
do that, in spite of some of the
absurd claims made to-day. But
of you can hear the faintest sound,
do not despair. You will never
regret trying the Wilson Ear-
Brums. We have letters to show
you from deaf people in Australia
and New Zealand, who have been ,
cured, and you can be cured, too. You may wear
the Ear-Drums day and night, and take them out
whenever you wish. Children can wear them (we
have special sizes for children from six to twelve).
Even a child can insert and remove them without the
least danger.
The price is £1 (the fee for a doctor’s single
visit). This includes a pair of drums (they are only
sold in pairs), a fine nickel remover, and also an
inserter. After the first pair is bought you may pur-
chase a single drum at any time for Bs., but the
pair you get at first will last quite two years. Do
not ask for a trial pair. We do not send them out
on trial, and so they are never secondhand. Use the
Order form below, and the Outfit will be sent you
at once, with the fullest instructions. Don’t delay,
but have the comfort of good hearing as soon as you
can.
fv
ORDER FORM.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
103 Arlington Chambers,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please send me an Outfit containing a pair of
Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums, an Inserter and a
llemover, for which I enclose One Pound,
Name
Address
NOTE.—Send Money Order or Postal Note. If a
Bank Note or Sovereign is sent, you must register it.
V-'I, 1 .
tyv
m
A
a
<3O
r J77TT777J77/777777/J /
!»w
waterman®
(Ideal)
FountamPen
“Safety” Type—No matter how
carried IT WILL NOT LEAK.
Upside down in pocket or bag —doesn’t matter
a bit. The Pen can’t leak —it’s sealed when
open and sealed when closed. As a pen
—absolutely efficient. Writes smoothly, with-
out spurting or faltering; lasts a lifetime.
Nibs to suit every hand.
15/- and upwards.
Of Stationers and
Jewellers everywhere.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, Ltd.,
Koh-i-noor House, London, England.
AUSTRALIA—3SO, George St.,
Sydney.
tSS
I m
ill
i
11
1111
itm
m
t.^lli 1 i
SPENCER’S MILD INDIAN CICARS.
SPECIALLY SELECTED WHOLE LEAF—No Inferior Fillings.
If not obtainable fro n your dealer, refer
Sample Boxes of 50, 15/-
PARTRIDGE ABERCROMBY LTD.,
York Chambers, Market Street, Sydney.
LOFTUS MORAN,
231 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
FOR A SWIFT, SMOOTH SHAVE USE
A “PLUM” RAZOR.
'
You won’t dre.ad shaving once you get a “Plum.”
You’ll waste no more time in barber shops.
You’ll suffer no more from roughened skin.
This razor is kind to cheek and chin. Even the stillest beard will fall
easily before it.
Order one to-day, and we’ll keep it in perfect order for two years.
PRICE 10 6, Post Free.
The O. & A. Moustache Trainer
shapes the moustache. Worn
at night; >2/6, 3/6, 5/6 each
post free.
We Grind and Set Razors, 1/- each.
SAFETY RAZORS FROM 5/6.
Send for our Illustrated Price List.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle,lo/6
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-. This is the
line that makes a good present.
The Plum Razor Strop. 10/6 and 7/6.
Other good kinds from 3'6 each.
Stick good Shaving Soap, 1/-
The Plum Strop Dressing, 1/- Tube.
Gentlemen who shave themselves
should not he without it.
All the Above Post Free.
CRAIG &l AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 30 YEAIIS.
The
Cap >
1
The
Head >
This head con-
trols the flow
of ink. A turn
to the right
closes the pen
so that it miy
be held in any
position and
will not leak.
A greater or
less turn to the
left gives the
exact supply
of ink suitable
tor your hand-
writing.
The Nib
Carrier
M
M
M
The whole idea of a fountain pen is to
simplify writing. That is why the
Onoto is unrivalled. It fills itself. A
fountain pen that needs a filling appar-
atus defeats its own end ; it is as out-
of-date as a watch that needs a key.
The Onoto Pen is a
triumph of simplicity.
It is complete in itself—perfect in the
simplicity of its mechanism—British manu-
facture and guaranteed by its makers.
All who write should own the
the pen—never leaks.
Price u/-and u wards, of all Stationers, Jewellers & Stores. Booklet about the Onoto
Pen free on application to Thos.de la Rue & Co , Ld., 194 Bunhill Row, London, E.C., or
the Australasian Representatives, Norman Baker&Longhurst, 50 York Street, Sydney.
Ask for ONOTO INK —oest for all Pens.
M
mmm
.mOKTOTTO
Barnet Glass Motor-
Cycle Tyres carry the
confidence of Motor-
Cyclists everywhere.
BARNET GLASS
MOTOR TYRK
All roads bear testi-
mony to the quality
of Barnet
Glass Motor
Tyre*.
f
M
BARNET GLASS RUBBER CO. LTD.,
Founders of the Rubber Industry in Australasia, [2
289-93 Swanston St., Melbourne ; All States and N.Z.
M
BARNET GIASS
[ WATERPROOF OCOATS
The “MAWSON” Model
Cut, modelled, and made
with as much care as a
high-priced suit. At all
Drapers and Storekeepers
ssin
9ie»3u*ai
SMMMM9IO
,3Ni]l7€l
m
Recognised by Experts as “Savers
of Steam," and thoroughly depend-
able under even severest conditions.
M
Other Models from 7/6 to 40-
Cataloguhs Sent Free.
MELBA
the ACCORDEON with
The Mellow Tone.
1 Is just perfection for song accompaniments,
' Dance and Picnic Music. The organ like
1 tone of these instruments is attained by the
| use of Bell Metal Reeds which are hand
fitted and tuned. J
3 Popular Model*.
THE ORGAN-TONED MELBA
3 seta Bell Metal Reeds, price 23/6, postfree.
THE DANCE KING.
4 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 30/-, post free.
THE PICNIC MODEL.
5 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 15 postfree.
ALLAN & CO., 276 Collins St., Melb
Operation Avoided by Using
M
“For 23 years I suffered with an enlargement of the wrist. Three nie(
pronounced it incut rable without an operation. A friend advised me to use o
SOLUTION, which I did—only a tew jars—and it has perfectly cured me.
best liniment 1 have ever used/* _ « ocvIJ;LL
(Signed) Jas. E B CHEVEL, Nor . h
Obtainable in 2/6 Jars from Chemists or Storekeepers, or post free for 3, .
✓7* SOLOMON COX & SON, 439 Bourka St., Melbourne, \


The “Atlantic”
A NELSON
STANDARD!
This is one of our handsome “Stan-
dards,” with onyx base, art glass
shade, three draft arms, two double
stream, one water arm, as supplied
with our latest
ICELESS
Soda Fountain.
It is the front system! Leading
buyers are actually scrapping their'
marble wall fountains and installing
our modern, brilliant apparatus. A
few satisfied users :—Carrolls, Ltd.,
Manly ; A.8.C., Gaut’s, Sydney ; Luna
Park, Melbourne; A. F. Rowe, Ade-
laide. , T .,
Now is the time to inquire! Re-
member —we sell the best goods at the •
lowest prices, and can fix you up, with
paid out of profit terms.
WRITE NOW for our ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
The Nelson Carbonating Co. w.
167 George Street, Sydney,
“The Greatest House in Australiafor Soda
Fountain & Refreshment Room Supplies.”
THE
NON-
STOP
TYRE.
?/■
fcv
MS/
pi*
MU
f ssmmm
r ::v v fss.
JfSp
Mm
/»***
/* **
Jii%* j
■''■■ I
IS***:! h
f* %*• -ir- i
E***; if]
fm+* : flj
ft i
m§mim
sfe fl
< IB
6166
£
**
U!
*Wss
iig
i
n»
■;
in
Caulais
wwm (COAL-WAH)
lyres
The All-Conquering
“GAULOIvS.”
Splendid Success in "L'Auto” Reliability Tour of France
Ten Cars covered the 2636 Miles
of the tour without loss of points.
SIX had GAULOIS TYRES.
That “Gaulois’ ’ has an immense popularity amongst
French car owners was excellently evidenced in
this event'. Of 29 cars that started no less than 65
per cent, were fitted with this most reliable of tyres.
“Gaulois ” superiority is the result of a
Quarter of a Century’s Tyre-making experience,
of Finest Materials and Perfect Construction.
GAULOIS ON TROUBLE OFF.
GAULOIS TYRE CO., 401-3 Post Office Place, Melbourne
MOLLOY AND CO. - - - 255 George Street, Sydney
TAXI CAB LTD.,
114 Pirie Street, Adelaide.
HOBART MOTOR GARAGE,
Elizabeth Street, 'Hobart.
CHAS. ATKINS & CO.,
Queen Street, Perth.
M
M
The Smothered Press.
Consider the attitude of some of the great
dailies on the “Press Gag” Act since the
ominous day when the Federal electoral
writs were issued. Grandma Herald, after
announcing petulantly that she couldn’t
abear it and it was like somebody’s brazen
impudence, ignored all Federal issues in her
leading columns, but turned on the leaders
of the Ma State Opposition to give Sheol to
the Federation. Ever since then (as the song
says) the kind old lady has published long,
medium and short reports of all kinds and
descriptions of speeches—Liberal, Labor, In-
dependent, Freetection and nondescript. But
Granny has boldly, badly and indeed coura-
geously declined, refused and purposely
omitted to sign one of them. The
dear old lady now owes the Law
about £1,492,731 11s. 2d. in fines for high-
spirited capers. She has made amends by
publishing articles on the Governor-General,
the Vacant North, the Cricket Season, Com-
missions, Drink, the Third, Fourth and other
Parties, the Suffragettes and the Cadets.
Also, the Balkans, the Deficit and the D
(this last one under another title). At
latest date she had tackled Reciprocity, Re-
ligion and Strikes and the Law ; also, some
more Balkans. Aunt Matildagraph has
kept on her “dig” since the deadly 23rd
April. She never said nuffin to no one, but
opened a new packet of hatpins on April 24,
and started “Campaign Points,” by L.
Buchanan, of King-street, Sydney—and
very gentlemanly, not to say gentle, digs,
they are! Aunt ’Tilda, without warning,
then entered upon a long course of articles
on Abolishing Government by K.C., the
Balkans, Printed Poison, Man or Beast,
Captain Cook, the Cost of Living, Problems
of British Suffragettes, the Balkans, Ameri-
can Views of Treaty Obligations, Pacific
Problems, Apprentices, White Australia, the
Balkans. Scaddan’s pastoral leases, Tram
Fares, the Subbubs, Tin, Ferries, Farmers,
Hospitals, the Pres§ and the Public, the Bal-
kans, the World’s Youth, China, Lord Den-
man and (of course) the Balkans. At time of
writing Auntie is hitting up a circulation on
little things like Britain, Defences and the
Racial Qualificatiops for Citizenship, while
three of her best (R. L. Nash, Thomas
Courtney and H. J. Taperell) are getting
in “side” articles on the subjects they should
be allowed to handle in the leading columns.
Also, ’Ector Carruthers and several others
are being allowed to speak a niece at inter-
vals on matters Federal. In Melbourne the
Argus, with impressive dignity, is signing
its leaders thus :
Written, after consultation, to express the views
of the Argus, by David Hewitt Maling, 197 Collins-
street.
The Age just dabs on three or four names
to each article, such as :
G. F. H. Schuler, 233 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Benj. Hoare, 233 Collins-street. Melbourne.
Ambrose Pratt, 233 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Now, why can’t Sydney’s daily mentors go
and do likewise? As an earnest Liberal
with some good old Tory views, and as a con-
sistent Baptist Unitarian, this writer main-
tains that the S. M. Herald and Tele-
graph are not sincere in their alleged oppo-
sition to Labor, or to the “Press Gag” Act.
If they were they wouldn’t publish a line of
Fisher, Hughes and Co.’s speeches and
manifestoes. They would shut down abso-
lutely on Fisher and all the members who
helped pass that Act. They would be con-
sistent, and by utterly suppressing all Labor
reports and documents, show N. S. Wales
that there is only one cause —their cause—
and only one side to the present political
scrap. Then Labor, at vast expense and
effort, would have to start a large and im-
posing journal of its own —and it couldn’t
do it in time to win this election.
[Written, after profound consultation with him-
self, by Edward MacCulloch, Megalong-street, Ka-
toomba (N.S.W.), masquerading more or less effect-
ively for literary purposes as O. C. Cabot, which is
the word “tobacco” reversed, the “0.C.” being sup-
posed to stand for “Oliver Cromwell/’ who has
the misfortune to be dead.]
: «.
During his sojourn in Melbourne with the
Dominions Trade Commission, Rider Hag-
gard, repenting of his lugubrious speech to
the Sydney Institute of Journalists, waxed
gay, and talked Zulu in the street. He
escaped arrest for “langwidge.” When the
Commission adjourned on May 2, Haggard
was asked by a fellow Commissioner on the
way lunchwards, “Are you coming?” In
reply whereto the biographer of Umslopogaas
delivered himself: “Yebo, Inkose, ni siham-
ba.” The only Melbourne paper able to
make anything of that speech was the Her-
ald, which apparently possesses a Zulu re-
porter. Dipping his assegai in the inkwell,
he translated the remark, “Yes, sir, I am
coming.” The phrase is from Bantu, the
language spoken by most of the Kaffir tribes.
But “Yebo” is tantamount to “My oath!”
instead of the mere “Yes” of affirmation. A
debate, between Haggard in Bantu and Sin-
clair in Maori would be worth reporting,
though it is doubtful whether the Pitman
system was devised to cope with the Zulu
click, which makes that language sound like
a hurricane of kisses.
Horrified at the idea that there should
breathe a man who refuses to bow down
and worship the Party Government fetich,
the Argus devotes columns to assuring the
electors of Gippsland that they (the said
electors) are dead, dog-tired of that good
democrat and brainy citizen, G. H. Wise.
Wise, a genuine Liberal, who, when the
Fusion was perpetrated, refused to be seen
alive or dead with the Cook crowd, sat in
the last Parliament as an independent demo-
crat, and is seeking re-election as such. The
Argus (6/5/T3) alleges:—
The straightforward, honest farmer of the Gipps-
land type wishes to have as his Federal member one
who feels called upon to take one side or other in
the party welfare of politics.
According to the absurd old Tory sheet, the
political wisdom and foolishness of all the
ages, from Noah Arkbottom to Bruce Smith,
have been absorbed by two parties, and all
people who stand outside the two are cranks
and nonentities. Which is equivalent to
saying that a man may be either a giant or
a midget, and retain a certain amount of
public respect, but should he be a person of
sft. Bin. or thereabouts he is a monstrosity,
a freak of nature and a grave error on the
part of the Almighty.
[Albert John Owen, 129 Grey-street, East Mel-
bourne.]


HORSESHOE
SALMON
Much quality is expected by the housewife in
Horseshoe Salmon. And much quality
is always forthcoming.
If you do not already know the fine, inviting
flavor of this wholesome Salmon —buy a tin to-day.
Use it direct from the can, or in any of many
appetising ways. It is always delicious.
Canned from Selected Fish Only.
u
SAC SUITS
FOR IMMEDIATE USE.
Creditably fashioned, having a high quality pleasing
to the exacting and cultured wearer, because they
tally' to admiration with the attire as Fashion dictates.
English made of goodly fabrics in many size grades.
Almost every approved shade.
From 30/= t 0 67/6.
Please state height, waist, inside leg and chest
measures. We will post one on approval.
PikeDrot/®$
£7mi fed
BRISBANE.
BANANA LAND
The country is going to the dogs, capital
is clearing out, industrial unrest is a blight,
and the Pastoral Employers’ Association met
at Longreach (Q.) the other day to offer it-
self its own condolences. In fact, things
are specially bad so far as these squatters
are concerned, because the administration
of the State’s Water Conservation (mostly
artesian bore) Department is an additional
“grave menace” to the cow and jumbuck in-
dustry. _ And just to prove how much they
and their own crowd believed the gloomy
yarns, _ the secretary reported that “Glad-
stone is duplicating its [freezing and meat
packing] works. Lake’s Creek is being
duplicated as far as freezing and storage
capacity are concerned. Ross River is
duplicating, and I understand also that the
Burdekin and Bowen meat works are put-
ting in additional freezing machinery.”
None of these people expect to make a penny
out of the works. They know that the coun-
try is being ruined and that there soon
won’t be any cows to can. But they do
it because- —well, apparently because they
know they will be ruined, and they might
just as well be ruined that way as any
other.
A HEALTH FADDIST.
DOCTOR : “How about baths? Do you bathe
regularly? ”
PATIENT: “Ho , no. [?] too bloomin' cold this
weather. But I AVE been go in' in a lot
for whisky lately!"
Maryborough gave itself some champagne
and cheers the other day when that good
Australian concern, Walkers, Ltd., steamed
out of its shops the first locomotive made in
Queensland for another State. It is the
firstborn of 20 which Victoria has ordered,
and the rest of the family are to be handed
over at the rate of one per week. After
being allowed to gaze at the landscape of
the Mary River and wonder why the town
crept so far up the river before it camped,
the 95-totj'giant was duly pulled to pieces
and stowed .away in readiness for the boat
Which, Will 'take it aAvay south. Victoria
requires the animal to steam 2000 miles by
way of trial, and most of it could have been
done on the way if the bungle of different
gauges had not interfered.
On the Road
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The dust is on my hurrying feet, the dust is
in my eyes,
And far behind me in the vale that o’er the
rough hill lies
There is a garden soft with dew and bright
with butterflies.
There is a sweet, white maiden bed. a little
crucifix,
Beyond a. patch of weeded ground where
phlox and daisies mix,
And in the spring bean blossoms curl about
their rigid sticks.
The window swings wide through the day;
it looks toward the hills,
The mignonette all big with bees, the room
with incense fills.
Sometimes < a blundering moth lights on the
pillow’s virgin frills.
Oh ! If a man can judge of Hell or Heaven
with mortal eyes,
I sometimes think that each for me in an
old memory lies,
A homely garden, soft with dew and bright
with butterflies !
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, May 37, 1913.
My Dear Tiiargomidah,—
Beatrice Grimshaw, novelist, passed
through this week on her way south. Bea-
trice writes well, but those who have lived
in the Islands regard her tales of those parts
as not irretrievably blighted with the curse
of accuracy. One thing the lady possesses
in abundance, and that is courage, She
even went down in a diver’s dress While in
Tonga—a shuddersome idea to most women,
who could not abide the creepy things that
D. Jones keeps on the ground floor of his
damp, dark emporium.
Mrs. Arthur Feez, daughter May and Miss
Green have gone to Townsville, which at
present is very lively. Rockhampton, too,
is drawing a big crowd for Carnival week,
and his Ex. has promised to open the Show.
Some engagements : CissieO’Hagan, sister
of Mrs. Tom McCawley, is to be married in
September to one Ramsay, of Melbourne.
The lady has a mass of friends, and she will
be entertained at numberless teas, etc.,
before then. Frank Ahern, of football
fame, is to wed Miss Millingen early in
June—lda Chambers is giving a party in her
honor next Wednesday. And Clive Overell,
youngest son of W. J. Overell. and Alice
Logan, are two others who have conspired
matrimonially.
The wonderful “Gaby glide” season has
begun. It was said that the assemblies were
not to be held this year, and several sighs of
relief had been breathed, but w T hen the good
people of the Prevention of Cruelty to Ani-
mals Soc. announced that they would hold a
big ball in August, and hoped that the
country would roll up to that in place of the
usual assembly, that nearly-dead institution
suddenly revived and announced that it
would be alive about that date.
This will be another year of private
hops, dignified with such names as “Othello,”
“Kismet,” “Blue Bird,” or some such incon-
spicuous decoration. The “Birds” took theif
exercise last night in St. Andrew’s Hall, and
to-night the “Buttercup” Club is modestly
revolving at the Cafe Majestic. The past
pupils of the Grammar Schools are to enjoy
a rhythmic leaping next week, and several
other whirls or sarabands are about to palpi-
tate in the middle distance.
Lvndhurst, the John Reid home at Clay-
field, was filled on Thursday night with a
cheery bunch of boys and girls. Daughter
Eileen had a birthday and a guest from
Sydney simultaneously, so a celebration of
some sort was to be expected. Mrs. Reid
and Miss Munro (the guest), and Ruby-
Earl (who is almost another daughter)
helped to distribute the fruit salad and
unemployed partners. Peach blossom de-
corations were a gay side line.
The new tennis courts at Emmanuel Col-
lege were opened yesterday. The rain
rather spoilt the proceedings, but no cause
of complaint could be found against Miss
Waraker, the matron, who had lent a careful
eye to the food department. By unanimous
vote she was made an hon, mem. of the
Ancient Order of the Floury Hand for her
success.
Mrs. George Webster and her popular, hus-
band gave a party on Tuesday night, in
honor of Miss Macdonald, who is to be mar-
ried shortly, Mrs, Duckett White and Mrs.
Charlie Mant, sisters of the bride-in-contem-
plation, are giving a big At Home for her
next week.
Josephine Lewis, who leaves for England
in a month or two, gave a concert in His
Majesty’s on Wednesday night. The house
was full—the most-attended concert within
the memory of the oldest concertina —and a
waggon-load of flowers rolled steadily up to
the stage. Lena Hammond, W. Crisp, and
a baritone named ; England worthily sup-
ported the programme, with violinist Herr
Diebels a dead heat at the post, or what-
ever the technical term is that means the
same thing. Miss Lewis promises remark-
ably well, and should her performance on
Wednesday night be anything to go by, this
little Queensland girl will before long make
another recruit in Australia’s musical front
ranks. If she lacks anything it is strength,
but a long voyage and a complete change
of conditions may mend that.
Mrs. A. B. Carvosso, one of our most popu-
lar young hostesses, entertained a jolly party-
in Cafe Rowe, on Thursday afternoon. A
musical competition was won by Betty Cock-
burn, of the golden voice. The hostess wore
black, and some exquisite white fox furs.
Our very own songstress, Mrs. Gilbert
Wilson, being ill and unable to sing at the
Liedertafel concert on Tuesdav night,
Leonard Francis filled her place with two
of his pupils, both of whom sang prettily
and frocked acceptably. Their names were
Miss Hilda Reid and Miss Cylla Roughsedge.
The Women Students’ Club of the Univer-
sity contemplates a spree of some kind, but
an aristocratic vagueness broods over the
whole affair. Which reminds me that one
A. St. Ledger is still writing about the
powers of the Australian Constitution to
that untameable supporter of the Democracy 7,
the Courier.
Mrs. Rumor is talking of an engagement
between a squatter’s widow and a Southern
man, but so far the most persistent society
sleuth has not been able to discover if things
are quite settled. In between whiles, she
wonders why another wedding has been post-
poned.
AUSTRALIA JANE.
[*No responsibility attaches to Australia Jane
for the reference to A. Ledger. That was interpo-
lated by John Barr, The Bulletin Office, Sydney,
lie being addicted to depressing subjects.]
One Oliver Cromwell Roberts, a Califor-
nian chemist, dropped in the other day &nd
told the Government he had an idea or two
about this nrickly pear business. Banana-
land was all ears immediately, and gave him
100,000 acres in the Dulacca district to
play with. If he can shave the prickly
whiskers off that land in ten and a half
years, he can have it. Roberts’s idea is to
cut tracks into, the thorns mass and then
send in a patent cart to fondly dispense
heavy gases which will duly hang around
the pear and strangle it to death, after
which it can be burned off. Easy, isn’t it?
AN OLD
GRIEVANCE.
THE BETTER HALF:
“ To-morrow is
the fourteenth
anniversary of our wedding."
THE VULGAR TRACTION : “Will, you needn’t
taunt me with it.”
What grim experiences had many of the
early arrivals in old Moreton Bay ! A few
days agQ, a Mr. and Mrs. Shears, of Mount
Cotton, celebrated their “golden wedding.”
The husband came out in 1849, in the ship
Emigrant. Black fever broke out on the
vessel, and out of 360 passengers only 60
were left alive when quarantine was lifted
in Moreton Bay.
Yalleroi, a township between Blackall and
Jericho (which, by the way, is in no way
related to Jerusalem in Maoriland), has just
had itself surveyed and its streets named.
As a change from the common variety of
name usually inspired by the mayor, his
missus and the pet goat, the streets (on the
plan) are called after the grasses of
Bananaland —Flinders and Mitchell and the
like. Western Bananaland has a streak of
originality in this respect. Longreach has
named its thoroughfares after native birds;
Barcaldine’s wheel-tracks are called after
trees; Blackall’s after flowers.
The old wrangle about Queensland’s
artesian water has been renewed. J. B.
Henderson, the State’s hydraulic engineer,
says the flow is easing off, and for the 73rd
time or so he has cried aloud against the
waste-of the valuable liquor. A .remark of
his to the Empire Trade Commission, that
the squatter wouldn’t control the flow be-
cause he didn’t want to suggest doubts and
suspicions about the value of his property,
has set the Pastoral Employers’ Associa-
tion grinding its teeth in anger; and the
yarn is told again that, if the flow from a
bore is stopped or regulated, the chances
are that the maddened water will make a
new channel for itself underground and
escape. As a matter of fact, this doesn’t
improve the outlook at all. It is dead cer-
tain that the pressure is easing; and if
the only way to stop that serious movement
is to do something which may be more dan-
gerous still, things are only middling.
-p. Dhe camel is a growing item in “..i
Dead Heart” nowadays. When tbe
Downs, in the Gregory NortlwW' 7 enpor t
changed hands, thl
square miles of country various°S 3039
horses and 69 camels.' Th< U e and
Thomas Purcell, who alrea<lvT a^ r Was
Downs Manilla, WhitS “fcjan n’T"*
and other small bits of Australia™ D f lto “
the Gregory countrv which the %r m ° St yin
nental line would run Trough TfT 01111 -
given enough of a dry kink eastward Were
Another case to prove thaf fu at
takes all the vim out of the vounT \ ortb
and bred there. A while ago a g se h n T
spector. noticing the uncommon Sari,!”'
of a youngster named Hopkins 0 lf\ s
lab. a mining camp away rn V a? f
north-west of Cooktown, urgedhim m L les
a go for a State bursary-which ZIL T
board and education at any Grammar T 6.
n Queensland. With all hffi S V ,T 01
he bucked up to it and won Then ! g
the problem of getting to Townsville Thef
are no coaches to Ebagoolah and no ttLT
that would take a coach; it’s the J.T
Place the parson comes to once a vear An.
waiting weeks for the rivers to'fall' a hh
young Hopkins therefore started out £
month with the occasional mailman F;,
days and nights they spent on the'sodden
track, camping when it was too dark m
push their ruling and pack-horses am
further, and then reached Leura. After that
it was comparatively easy going.
“Kobbi : A deputation from
somewhere in Southern Banana
land took its hat the other £
into a Government office anil
begged somebody to drop into if
enough borrowed dollars to resume
certain lands for a park. The
money was forthcoming, along with
some praise for the council which
was doing its duty to the public
But the obliging Minister forgot
to mention that bis
Government was too
tired to see that towns
retained the parks
they had, and did not
give them away at
half-price sales. Rock-
hampton is a shining
example of what a
council ought not to
be. It happened this
way. The Railway
Department suddenly
decided that it was
unwise to draw a
crippled engine all the
way to Brisbane for
repairs,, and suggested
workshops at Rock-
hampton. Now, Com-
missioner Evans had
his rather cute eye on Fitzrov
Park, and forthwith he asked for
eight or ten acres of it. Finally he
asked for the lot. The local coun-
cil. with immense dignity, said
“No!” and turned its back. But
then some publicans, drapers and
what not presented a petition
whining that if the Commissioner
did not get his fingers into that particular
hit of earth, the shop would be built else-
where. They had land of their own, but it
didn’t occur to them to pass that over—it
was so much easier to hand over the public
park. The scared council thereupon slew
its dignity and went out and offered the sur-
face to the Government with commendable
humility. _ Yet, if anyone told Rockhamp-
ton that it was not progressing, and that it
would never need any more parks than it
has now, the thud of the reoly would dis-
turb the penguins at Mawson’s Polar camp.
If a Brisbane Opposition journal is to be
believed, Premier Denham was received at
Atherton, on the fertile tableland behind
Cairns, by an enthusiastic deputation of
10 Hindoos and one pressman!
Courteous remark of a disappointed M.L.A.
deputationist to Minister for Railways
Paget: “There’s something rotten in the
state of Denmark if that is the way the rail-
ways are administered.” The fury of a she-
bear robbed of her whelps is nothing to the
rage of a politician when the loan fund
peters out.
The water hyacinth makes ruinous pro-
gress northward. At a meeting of the
Waterford Shire Council one of the muni-
cipal dads remarked that a ferry would be
an impossibility at that place, and he added
that a few miles away, at Loganholme, it
was now out of the question to pull a boat
across the river, so choked was it with
hyacinth. This pest will yet cost Queens-
land almost as dearly as the prickly pear.
From the people who run the Warwick
Argus :
Touching the Bulletin's reference to us (B.
l/5/’l3) and the recent Fassifern election. You
quote our comment correctly, but the deduction you
draw is erroneous. We have consistently contended
that any individual outside the recognised sacred
bounds of Liberalism’ or Laborism has a eommete
right to offer himself to the people as a candidate.
We growled because in Queensland there is no la"
to prevent a candidate —any political jackanapes
securing elect : on on a minority vote. The Govern-
ment, in effect, permits this sort of thing because
it has devised no effective electoral machinery to
thwart it. “


o
'
: v ••••
MiMm
WSZZSM
/
m
*l^,:
k£
OLs
1
\
1
%
L- ih
g§3f
Will stE
I)NEQI)4LLED roR PELI4BILITT, LONOWMP * PDP4BILITY
'TffECONTINENT/IL ( To RUBBEP O Lr»
Melbourne , Sydney,Adelaide , Perth . Brisbane, Launceston , Auckland & Christchurch.n Z.


Shipping:.
P, and O. BRANCH SERVICE.
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Via MELBOURNE and ADELAIDE.
.. i-lune IS
.. June 28
ijnlv 19
GEELONG ~
BENALLA ..
BELTANA ..
..! 80H)(Bidwell
.. ill,l2o|Simmonds
„hi,l2olLingham
Wireless installed.
PASSENGEH ACCOMMODATION AMIDSHIPS.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
LONDON.. . .. .. £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l7 17s.
Tickets for return, via Suez (second-class), P. and
O. Mail, from £49 19s. to £53 11s.
CILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne: John Sanderson k Co., 11l William St.
Adelaide and Fremantle Agents: Geo. Wills k Co.
ORIENT LINE
-ENGLAN D.
AUSTRALIA
Electric Li ftp arid Laundries.
Sailing oven' fortnight from BRISBANE. SVDNRI ,
Melbourne; Adelaide, and fremantle.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Pi.ack. Sidney.
Banking:, Public Companies, dkc.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Head Office: 11 Moore Street, Sydney.
(Guaranteed by the State Government).
Has Now No Connection
with the Post Offices.
The Bank has 116 Branches and
500 Agencies throughout the State.
DEPOSITS received from 1/- to £5OO-
- from £1 to £3OO,
and 3% on the excess up to £5OO.
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
™?jjank of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. . .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370.000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACK ENZIE LICKS, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. I’. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTII, Ksq. (Burns, l’bilp k Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: U. U. LOVE.
Bankers: TIIK LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK, LTD.
BRANCHES ■•■ throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
. and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,534
PAID-UP (31st December, 1912).. £1,195,274
RESERVE jFUND £15,000
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS —Sir William P. Manning, l\t.. Chair-
man; George .1, Sly, Esq., LL.D.; Ciias. 11.
Myles, Esq.; Mark Siielhon, Esq.; Arthur S.
Barton, 'Esq; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales k Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand,.and'aJl the principal towns of the world.
A. T. STEWARTf General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June SO. 1921.
Subscribed Capital . . . . . • £ 800.000 0 0
Capital Pafel Up .. *• • • • 413.590 14 6
Reserve . . 7; .. ■ • 130,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091.(569 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new i business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —JaS. Munro, Esq. (Chairman) ; John
Cameron, Esq,*' F. Lord, Esq. ; Geo. Edw. Bunning,
Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray, M-L-C.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON FIXED DEPOSITS. —
12 months,! at the rate of 4 per cent, per annum: 2
rears and dvet, at the‘rate of 41 per cent, per annum.
HEAD OFFICE - - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London. Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
New Zealand Insurance Cui.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
LIVE STOCK and GENERAL.
WEALTHIEST COLONIAL COMPANY.
INSURANCES EFFECTED at LOWEST Current Rates.
FIRE and MARINE BRANCH : 77 I*!TT STREET, SYDNEY
ACCIDENT BRANCH: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
J. A. Minnett &A. E. P’AIiCV, J m Managers.
CARBIDE.
For First-Class
Results use
Best
CARBIDE.
AHHrpssps ofSfitfrch'ants distributing it fan be obtained
A f,om ACOCST BLUMENTHAL LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Afr'TUS for Australia.
Shipping.
N.D.L.
NORDDEUTSCHER-LLOYD
MAIL STEAMERS
To Colombo, Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and
Bremen.
Ail steamers fitted with “Wireless” Installation.
All steamers fitted with Laundry.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE from Sydney
and Brisbane, via German New Guinea, Yap,
Angaur or Maron. Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to —
LOHMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney ;
OSTERMEYER, VAN ROM PA 15 Y k Co., Melbourne;
11. MUECKE A: CO., Adelaide;
1,. RATAZZI k CO.. Perth and Fremantle;
I’IIOS. RROWN k SONS. Ltd.. B.risbane k Townsville.
Bank of |) eu > Z ealan| l-
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING. (IHORCiE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£1,000,000
Preference Shares .. 500,000
Ordinarv Shares ( £1,000,000) l'aid-
up ’ .. .. .. -. 500.000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,240,587
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji. Great liri-
tain and Ireland, and other p'aoes
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixer! periods, arid
transacts all other usual Banking business.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
| inpic-OV/ It n ~ •
All steamers fitted with Wireless.
SALOON: FARES— Third-class.
London, from £45. £l6 to £ 20.
Capetown and Durban, from £3O £l3/13/- to i, \ </Uh
Special Round Tickets for Return by Orient Line,
£llO (First-class both ways) ; £B2 (Second-class
Orient). Saloon Return Tickets interchangeable
with Holt’s Blue Funnel Line. Third-Class Return
and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with P. & O.
Branch Service.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll4 10s.
SALOON CABINS on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest stan-
dard.
Pamphlets. Time-Tables, kc.. on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia
Australian Steamships Line
Fast Passenger Steamers
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and W.A. ports )
No cargo received
for Albany.
INDARRA (10,000 tons).
From Sydney .. May 24
From Melbourne .. May 28
From Adelaide .. May 31
(Carrying Ist, 2nd and 3rd
class passengers).
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
(Transhipping ' for
other Queensland
Ports). J
PEREGRINE.
From Melbourne . . May 28
From Sydney .. May 31
COOMA.
From Melbourne .. June 4
From Sydney . . June 7
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
ISLAND TOURS!
For HEALTH and HOLIDAYS.
5 Weeks in the SOLOMONS—£2O.
(A Tour of Rare Charm.)
am.
S.S. “MINDINI”
leaves SYDNEY
JUNE 14.
5 Weeks in PAPUA
S.S. “MATUNGA”
leaves SYDNEY
JUNE 30.
APPLY PROMPTLY. ACCOMMODATION LIMITED.
BURNS, PHILP 8a CO. Ltd
BANK OF
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability -
new south
Established 1817.
SB
DIRECTORS:
W ALES.
. £3,000,000
£2,150.000
. £3,000,000
£8,150,000
The Hon. Sir 'Qharles li. MacKellar, lit., M.L.C.,
President.
The Hon. Reginald .Tames Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Kichard Binnie,- Esq.
U'he Hon. Sir Nbrmand MacLaurin, Kf.,
Senator The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.<5.,
M.L.C.
M.L.C.
Auditors: Shepheard Ed*,elide UWgj**; iSiTtSii,. «. ~0.
I w'“ <, 3° , B™3Ss the" A*f “alia! States, Se« Zealand, Fill and Papua. A B ent. anti Cotres-
pondents throughout the . , Foreign places fISuECT. Foreign Bills negotiated
Cable remittances to and Drafts d,awn on. I oragn J (ynAmjs THROUGHOUT THE
and collected. Betters of Credit and Cncular Notes y RUSSELL FRENCH , General Manager.
WORLD.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up
Reserve Fund
.(Reserve Capital
..£1,749,978 2 6
. . 1,580,000 0 0
.. 1,750,000 0 0
£5,079,978 2 6
niRF.CTORS:
George J. Cohen, Esq.. .. Chairman.
Hon 11. E. Kateu, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon.®: Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
t Norman Sheet.ev, Esq.
Auditors: W- L. Docker, Esq., and E. S. Cape, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibits.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
11. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Bircliin - Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq.; Don. 11. S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital I’aid-up •• •• ••
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 159,054
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock).. 76,500
£773.861
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Gen Man . Edwd.'iD. Dav. Asst. Man.: E. 11. Matthews.
London Office : 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
•n BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
4<*ents ‘ind CorresDondents throughout the World.
The Colonial mutual Qife
assurance society limited
», FOR
Mutual Lite Assurance, Endowments and
Ai tuvities Nvithout Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
f V Head Office:
419 & COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.
£ 3,358,229.
AmSfehts paid' to' Policyholders exceed £5,600,000.
Policm*'Uneopditional, Unchallengeable. Indefeasible.
PremMifis moderate and without restriction as to
travelling,’ LiHferal Bonuses equitably distributed.
CiftEP Office for New So| rn IVai.es :
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The lion. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C.. Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith. K.C., M.P.
A. BOSS MILLER. Resident Secretary.
THE Australian Magazine—THE LONE
HAND. The National Monthly. Price, 6<l.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti),
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE.
*The largest and finest steamer trading between
Sydney and San Francisco.
Around World and Around Pacific Tours.
Steamers stop 24 Hours at Papeete—the
“ Pearl of the Pacific.”
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street, -Sydney.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,” “Westralia,"
“Ulimaroa,” “Wimmera,”
“Riverina,” “Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction. '
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH k ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN POJtTS. -• y
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET,, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And All Ports.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO
(LIMITED). 1
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and Iron)
West Australian, South Australian
Victorian and Queensland Ports,
FOR MELBOURNE >
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRTE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports.,
T.S.S. Wandilla, May 27
and June 25.
T.S.S. Warilda, June 7
and July 6.
Fitted WirelesaTelesrranhv
Each Steamer 8000 tans ’
Carrying Three Classes
1,2, S and 4-Berth Cabin-
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports Norrti to Cairns.
S.S. Allinpa, May 24.
S.S. Wollowra, May 31.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can hr
ascertained on application at the Company's Office
G. S. YUILL Sc CO.. LTD..
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY,
The Vancouver Route
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
Via FIJI AND HONOLULU.
CANADIAN - AUSTRALASIAN RM
LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
AROUND THE WORLD TOURS.
FIRST AND SECOND CLASS.
SAILINGS :
‘New triple-screw steamer, fitted with cab ! ns-de-
luxe en suite, Nursery, Laundry, Electric Lifts, etc.
All Steamers fitted with \Vireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Federal & Shire Lines
Steam to Colombo, Port Said, London
and Liverpool ( Via Suez Canal).
T.S.S. SHROPSHIRE.
12,600 Tons. W. L. PRENTICE, Commander.
Will be despatched from —•
BRISBANE, MAY 24.
SYDNEY, MAY 28.
MELBOURNE, MAY 31.
The Saloon accommodation consists of all two-
jerth cabins on the Upper deck, situated amidships.
iYell lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious
leeks. Third-class passengers supplied with fresh
irovisions from cool chambers throughout the voyage.
Electric light throughout. .'
Return and Round Trip Tickets issued via Cape
ind (or) Suez Route. Prepaid passages arranged.
Saloon. Third-class.
Pares to London £4O to £45. £l6/16/- to £ 18/18/-
Steerage Fares from Brisbane, One Guinea Extra.
FITTED WITH WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY.
For further information, pamphlets, etc., apply to—
BIRT k CO., LTD., Sydney and Brisbane.
McILWRAITH. McEACIIARN & CO. PTY., Ltd.,
Melbourne and Newcastle.
ELDER SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
H. JONES & CO., LTD.. Hobart.
A Whole Week Saved
SYDNEY to SAN FRANCISCO by the
Oceanic Steamship Company
10 000 tons, Twin Screw Steamers. 17 knots,
Classed 100 A 1 at British Lloyds.
CABINS DE LUXE with BATHS.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY—
VENTURA
SONOMA..
| May 31 I July 26 | Sept. SO | Nov. 15
June 28 Aug. 23 I Oct. 18 I Dec. 13
The through trip to England can be accomplished
in 29 Days via Samoa, Honolulu, San F e a " c ‘ s
RETURN TICKETS GOOD BY P. & 0., ORIENT L ,
N.D.L., N.Z .S. Co. and S. S. & A. Ca
Tel. 2282 City. Apply— 44 PITT STREET, SV
THE North Coast Steam
■ Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, CLLLINGKh
NAMBUCCA. MACLEAY AND' ha r.
RIVERS: also to BYRON BAY, COI
BOR and WOOLGOOLGA. . tion with
Combination Tickets are issued m c U, tt \y A YS,
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND
to include first- or second-class rail w j]] um bah,
thence to Tweed Heads—steamerto u RiverS)
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or
there connecting with one of the C I
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice vena on
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and ■ je
steamer, £C Bs. 6d. ; second-class rail an
on steamer, £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply- aynWEY-
BOOKING OFFICE. 261 GKORGE ? t or.
ROBERT A. Managing -
UNITED
insurance
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: MJ .y
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDN >
OOO.
nAPITAl
Fire Insurances
e*ect?d
Marine Risfrs ■ ■
__ Wool Merchandise.
Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other insuranoo.
of various cesses.
Th< •'United” U »£•«“* M»«*'


EORGE HOTEL,
•St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
Pier Hotel Glenelg Limited,
South Australia.
New High-Class Residential Hotel
(The Finest jn the State.)
BEAUTIFUL SEA FRONTAGE.
SPACIOUS PROMENADE BALCONIES.
LUXURIOUS WINTER GARDEN, LOUNGES,
DRAWING ROOMS, SMOKING ROOMS.
™JEx EVATORS WORKING DAY AND NIGHT,
CUISINE UNSURPASSED. TARIFF MODERATE.
Correspondence promptly attended to.
, G. F. FOX,
Tel., Glenelg 16. Manager.
iial
LONPON’S FAMOUS
FAMILY HOTEL.
Standing on high ground, it occupies
a healthy and hygienic situation within
a few minutes of the principal attrac-
tions by tube or taxi-cab. Rooms
large, lofty, and airy. Private suites,
including separate bathrooms. Every
convenience, with the refined luxury
of a modern English Home. Easy
access to all parts of the Country,
London’s -five great railway termini
being close to the Hotel. Moderate
Tariff. Special terms to families and
visitors making a. prolonged stay.
Telegrams-. “Centellare.” London.
Health follows the
regular use of
Montserrat
Lame Juice
Sauce
uwv
■»
It makes
you enjoy
your food.
Of all Storekeepers*
Tailor-Made
Costumes
FOR WINTER.
DAVfp BRAHAM
AND CO..
Tailors & Costumers,
76 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY.
M
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
EBTABUSHKP iB4ft. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONET TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Prooerties. or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures. Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand s* 1 " AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our rip.» Mortsrao-e Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to _b per cent. of the loan durintr any year, witnout notice or payment of any tine.
Directors—The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; The
Hon. James Burns, M.L.C. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. ; The Hon. F. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C. ; Adrian Knox,
’ K -°-1 A| ex. MacOormick, .M. I). , General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A.. F.S.S.
HEAD, OFFICE : 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
Commonwealth
M
Bank of Hustralta
Branches a. open for the transaction of General Banking: Business throughout Australia
New South Wales— Sydney and Canberra. Victoria— Melbourne. Queensland— Brisbane and
Townsville. South Australia -Adelaide. Western Australia-Perth. Tasmania— Hobart
And at Egypt House, 36-38 New Broad Street, London
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign Bills negotiated and
collected Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued to any part of the world. Bills negotiated or
forwarded for collection Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the
Commonwealth, united Kingdom and foreign countries,
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT
Agencies are open in practi ally all Post Offices which issue Money Orders in the Australian
Commonwealth and Papua.
Withdrawals on demand may be effected for sums up to £lO at any Office within the Commonwealth
1/-
Minimum
Deposit
3%
Rate of Interest on
all Deposits up to
£3OO
tie: 'i*rnirrf nioi
DENISON MILLER, Gotikmok
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queensland
o ers a held of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the prospective
settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office : 116 Pitt Street, Sydney. W.S W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
Use WELSBACH MANTLES
mm
m
}>**
*»v
«
for EVERY KIND OF LIGHT
Our Illustration shows a new type
of Soft or Collapsible Inverted
Mantle, which entirely overcomes
transit and initial installation
\
breakage. Write for particulars.
WELSBACH LIGHT GO. LTD. OF AUSTRALASIA
302 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
380 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne. Creek Street, Brisbane. 102-4 Victoria Street, Wellington. N Z
THE KELVIN
Electricity Generating £ets
are by far the most satisfactory
for use in Lighting
Picture Shows,
Country Houses,
Hotels, etc.
They are RELIABLE, COMPACT,
EFFICIENT and INEXPENSIVE.
M
KELVIN
GENERATING SET
Engine and Dynamo are mounted on the same base, which is on wheels and closes right up
for travelling.
The New Models have just arrived, and we shall be pleased to demonstrate them.
If you cannot call, please send for our Illustrated Booklet.
JERDAN’S,
Cinematographers and Electricians,
393 George St., Sydney.
K
%>
&
mmmuiui,
a#
%
Socks
StocKings
and
The careful selection of yourjitockings and Sock* will
save you much ill-health. guy
They aie all-pure Australasian Wool, made in model factories
under ideal Conditions. Rendered unshrinkable by the “Jason”
process, which gives a silkv softness to the fabric, and dyed with
fast sanitary dyes, are without doubt the most com-
fortable V^ m "" add hygienic hose it is possible to
buy. Yet though so much better than any other, they
rn t no more than the ordinary kind. Ask for
next time and see you get them.
■•CsrAsm" iit'Ckings and Socks for ladies, men and
child’en. Ina’lprces. Of M n’s Outfitters,
Diapers and stores. If your dealer does not stock
them he can obtain them from h.s wholesale house.
In case of difficulty write for "Jason "
booklet and name of nearest agent to—
Jafon Hosiery Co.,
Leicester. England.
UHLS CATALOGUE
Uhl and Sons (The Premier Harness and
Saddlery House) have just revised their
Catalogue and Price List.
Every care has been taken to show by
illustration and description many of the
items we manufacture, such as Harness, Sad-
dlery, Bagware and Horse Bugs, etc., and
offered at prices that by buying elsewhere
means extravagance.
Fill in and post Coupon NOAV; we’ll send
Post Free our Catalogue, which you’ll find
very useful.
Name
Address
L. UHL & SONS, Ltd
Petrie Bight, Brisbane.
For the Country Horseman
The saddle here illustrated is expressly designed
for country use, for stock riding, etc., and is built
of the best materials throughout. If any of our
friends are requiring such a saddle they will find
this a genuine bargain.
It has a hog-skin seat, a plated bar-tree, extra
long flaps, with points to buckle below. An economi-
cal feature is the skirt, which extends all round
and thus adds years of wear to the saddle by pro-
tecting its interior from the weather. It has a
deep, “sweepy” seat, 4in. kneepads, nickel-plated
iron stirrups, and double buckle leather girth. The
price complete is £3/15/- Mention of Tub
Bulletin when ordering will ensure your having a
leather surcingle given in free, and the saddle will
be forwarded freight paid. It is to be obtained
from ,T. P. Talty, 388 Sussex Street, Sydney.
[Ringing for More
|LzfJ
LJhk Sir
/A
Bird’s
Custard
stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess*
Has stood the test of time
k Over 70 years ’ success. A
S HAIR DYE.
Made in England. Perfectly
harmless, indetectable,
and guaranteed free
from Nitrate of
Silver and Lead
Salts.
IN VARIOUS
SHADES Raven
Black, Black,
Broun, Light or
Golden Brown,
Blonde, Chestnut
and Auburn
Price 3/6, posted 3/11
Directions with every
bottle.
&
Vi
p-
MADAME
22 & 23 The Block Arcade, Collins St.
LEIGH,
Melbourne
=^s^s-
-
DEDCERT
Kills
Cockroaches.
CEORCE COUCH & SON LD., Agents, Albeit St., Brisbane


Amusements.
H
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE. SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.50.
Mr. J. O. Williamson presents, for the First Time in
, Sydney, the London, American & Continental Success,
THE COUNT OF LUXEMBOURG.
PLANS AT PALING'S
PRICES : D.C and O.S. (Reserved and at Door), 6/-;
Stalls. 4/- ; Amphitheatre till 7.30, 2/-; thereafter, 1/-
A DELPHI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction and Management. Gkohur Maui.ow. Ltd.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF
THE COWBOY AND THE SQUAW.
Magnificently Staged and Brilliantly Interpreted by
GEORGE MARLOWS FAMOUS DRAMATIC CO.
SATURDAY, MAY 24, Mr. William Ander«on presents
the Great Drama of New York Life,
THE EVIL MEN DO.
POPULAR PRICES: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & 1/-
pAI. A C E TII E A THE. SYDN K Y.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE BERT BAILEY FAVORITE DRAMATIC COM-
BINATION, in the Gr->at Record-breaking Characteristic
Australian Comedy Drama,
STEELE RUDD’S
ON OUR IS ELECTION.
Box Plan at Paling’s. POPULAR PRICES : 4/-, 2/0, 1/.
Early D lors to Stalls, 6d. extra ; to Gallery, 1/- extra.
Little theatre, CASTLEREAGH ST.,
SYDNEY
(With the BIG Attractions).
EVERY EVENING, AT 8.10,
HUGH C. BUCKLER & VIOLET PAGET
present
THE SUCCESSFUL SATIRICAL GEM,
FANNY’S FIRST PLAY.
PRICES: Orchestral Stalls, 6/-; Stalls, 4/-; Gallery (till
7.30), 2/- ; after that hour, 1/- Box Plan at Paling’s.
I\| ATIONAL AMPHITHEATRE. SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8. «
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
BRENNAN-FULLER'S VAUDEVILLE CO.
HENCHEY, VINCETTI AND BUSH, Comedy Acrobats.
THE THREE MARSDENS, in Feats of Strength.
THE ROLVOS, in a Novelty Garden Act.
TOM McGUIRE. Irish Singer of Scotch Songs.
THE ALROY GIRLS. MAURICE CHENOWETH.
PRICES: 3/-. 2/-, 1/6, 17-
Plan at Theatre.
gPENCER’S LYCEUM, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING.
QUO YADIS?
THE WORLD’S GREATEST ACHIEVEMENT
SILENT PORTRAYAL.
IN
8000 ft.—A FULL EVENING’S ENTERTAINMENT.
■y H E OLYMPIA, SYDN E Y~
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICT r RES, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEE—SATURDAY.
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRA.
3d. to 2s. Plan at Nicholson's (No Extra Fee).
Alhambra theatre, Sydney.
HAYMARKET VAUDEVILLE HOUSE.
Direction JOS. L. GOO,DMAN.
TO-NIGHT AND EVERY EVENING.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS, 2.30.
Children Half-price to ail parts
STAR VAUDEVILLE & MINSTRELS.
NEW PROGRAMME EVERY SATURDAY MATINEE.
PRICES : 1/6, 1/. & fid. ; Saturdays, 2/-, 1/6, 1/-
Doors, 7.15 ; Overture, 8.
OWN
HALL,
SYDNEY.
MAY 31. JUNE 3 and 5.
Afternoon JUNE 7.
FREDERIC SHIPMAN PRESENTS
THE GREAT BARITONE
DAVID BISFHAM
D AVID BISP II A M
A singer you will remember all your life.
Prices: 55., 35., 2s.
Plan opens at Paling’s, May 24.
r
MPE RIAL ROLLER KI N I
Foot of William Street.
A REFINED RINIvING RENDEZVOUS
for
FASTIDIOUS PEOPLE.
NOW OPEN.
THREE SESSIONS PER DAY.
JAMES C. BENDRODT,
General Manager.
D I C K A RD S’ TIVOLI T HE A T RE.
Personal Direction Mr. HUGH I). McINTOSII.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
TORCATS & DALIZAS ROOSTERS.
BELLCLAIR BROS., Athletes. THE 4 QUAINT Q’s.
A. G. SPRY, ELIZABETH CLAIR & MARGARET
OGILVIE, iii Ha mony & Hilarity.
CAPT. TIE HORS’ 7 EDUCATED SEALS. & SEA LIONS.
O HANASAN& CO., in "A Vision o f Japan ”
KITTY DALE. SYDNEY BACH. ALBERTO MARINI.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
Prices: 6/-, 4/- and 1/-
APE R A HOUS E. MELISOU It N E.
Personal Direction Mr. HUGH D. McINTOSH.
HARRY CORSON CLARKE MISS MARGARET
DALE OWEN, the Great American Comedy Stars.
MADGE TEMPLE, the Fashion-plate of Vaudeville.
CUMMIN & SEAH AM, Comedians and Acrobats.
THE FAMOUS JACKSON FAMILY, Trick Cyclists
SIX FLYING BAN V \ RDS, the Greatest Aerial Act.
MONS. REYNARD, Dramatic Baritone, assisted by
MDLLE. ROSELLA.
CASSIE WALMER, Everybody's Favorite.
Plan at Allan’s. £3TPRICES—4s., 35., 25., Is.
|y|ELBOURNE’S NEW CONCERT HALL
THE AUDITORIUM,
Now nearing completion, has been erected at a cost
of over £40,000, and will be the first Concert Hall
proper in Australia.
Seating accommodation—24oo.
Comfortable tip-up chairs in Stalls.
Handsome Lounge Seats in Balcony.
Comfortable Gallery seating throughout.
The Auditorium is equipped with heating and cooling
apparatus, which cost over £3OOO, by which the
atmosphere in winter and summer will be kept to an,
average temperature of 65 degrees.
Ample provision has been made for spacious en-
trances, exits, crush rooms, etc., all of which
will be heated in winter.
The Auditorium is suitable for Concerts of all
descriptions—Lectures, Meetings, Shows, Bazaars—
and other classes of amusements.
For vacant dates apply to
J. & N. TAIL The Auditorium, Collins Street.
Amusements.
THKATBE ROVAI, SYDNEY.
1 Lessee: J. C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
next Saturday night
BAGHDAD OF THE ARABIAN NIGHTS
REVIVAL FOR ONE WEEK ONLY OF
KISM K T.
Prices : D.C. & O.S. (Reserved), 7/6 ;at Doors, 6/-; Stalls,
4/- ; Gallery to 7.30, 2/- ; thereafter, 1/- Plans at Paling’s.
"J*HE GREAT MUSICAL EVENT OF 1913.
TREMENDOUS SUCCESS OF
MADAME
CLARA BUTT
And MR.
KENNEItLhY RUMFORD
AT THE AUDITORIUM, MELBOURNE,
FURTHER CONCERTS.
THURSDAY (to-night), MAY 22.
SATURDAY, MAY 24.
TUESDAY, MAY 27.
BOX PLANS NOW OPEN AT ALLAN’S.
PRICES : Reserved Stalls and Balcony, 10/6 (with a
special Vice-Regal Reserve for the Opening Night of £1 Is.)
Unreserved Seats, 5/- and 3/-
Full Particulars from J. & N. TAIT, Collins Street.
DRINCESS’S THEATRE. .MELBOURNE.
* Sole Lessee: GEO. MARLOW LTD.
Direction ALLAN HAMILTON.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, MAY 24.
Revival for Six Nights Only of the World-Famous
• Comedy-Drama
A MESSAGE FROM MARS.
Prices: 5/-, 3/-, 1/- Plan at Pianola Co.
U ER MAJESTY'S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING, AT 7.46.
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
in the Successful Gaiety Production,
THE SUNSHINE GIRL.
Plan at Allan’s. Reserved Seats & Dress Circle, 6/-
Balcony and Stalls, 4/- ; Pit and Gallery, 2/-
Roy a l, Melbourne!
C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
THEATRE
Direction J.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
FIRST PRODUCTION IN AUSTRALIA
of the Great American Dramatic Success,
W ITHI N THE LA W.
PRICES: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-
Stalls, 4/-. Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
Sole Lessee and Manager: William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Reappearance of W. Anderson’s Dramatic Organisation
in
The Adaptation of Victoria Cross’s Novel,
LIFE’S SHOP WINDOW.
POPULAR PRICES.
PLANS AT ALLAN’S.
BIJOU THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Lessees : Oriental Amusement Co. Ltd. of U S A
FOR A FEW NIGHTS ONLY.
THE TALK OF MELBOURNE.
AMERICAN
MUSICAL BURLESQUE COMPANY.
A Complete American Company of 40 Artists,
in the New Musical Burlesque,
THE BPEOUL A T 0 R S.
ONE CONTINUOUS SCREAM.
CE SKATING.
I
T H E
ICE skating!
glaciariu m,
MELBOURNE.
EVERY AFTERNOON : ADMISSION 2/-
EVERY EVENING: ADMISSION 1/-
LYRIC THEATRE, Chapel St., Praliran, Vic.
EVERY NIGHT at 8. MATINEE, SATURDAY,
at 2.30.
THE FAMOUS “NON-FLICKER”
PHOTOPLAYS
on the Marvellous “Mack" Screen, together with the
Superb LYIMC ORCHESTRA. (id. to 2s. Plans at
Allan's. C. M. Read's and the Lyric Theatre Cafe.
1 RUCTION AMALGAMATED PICTURES
LTD.
Melbourne’s Latest and Finest Picture Palace.
THE MAJI STIC 'l’ll EATI!E.
FLINDERS STREET, opp. Princes Bridge Station.
Continuous Matinees Daily from 12 to 6 o'clock.
3d., 6d. and 1/-
Evening Prices: 2/-, 1/6, 1/- and 6d. Plan at Allan’s.
OL V M P I A. O L V M P I A.
L Y M P I A. MELBOURNE.
(Just across Princes Bridge).
WHERE ARE TO BE SEEN THE UNRIVALLED
Sr JiilN CEI i’B EiCTU JiES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS AT 2.30.
EVERY NIGHT AT 8.
U/ E s T’S PALACE, MELBO U R N E
i he best WEST’S PICTUREStmr BKB t
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8. Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays
and All Holidays at 2.30.
Tin? Ghkatfst Picronui, Entkuimusk in the Wom.n
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be
seen at WESTS PICTURES. Complete Change
every week. Prices—6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
DIRCH & CARROLL
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of which
we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
.Head Office: ROTHWELL CHAMBERS. BRISBANE.
VICTORIA RACING CLUB.
Pocket Edition of the
NEW RULES OF RACING.
JUST PUBLISHED.
Printed in two colors, bound in limp roan gilt
edges; 4in. by 24in. Price, 1/6, including Postage,
H. BYRON MOORE.
What
You Want is Lesson s Tri ITTo~c~L77
ELOCUTION BY POST.
“One of the strange mysteries of life is that those who have somethin? to
sa.v worth hearing do not take the slightest trouble to learn how to make it
properly heard.”—William Ewart Gladstonk.
The Distinguished Actor
Walter Bentley
of World-Wide Fame _
Teaches by Post or by Private Lessons.
The Stage a Speciality. Many Engagements Made. Good Speaking a Commercial Asset
All further information and arrangement of time of
Private Tuition and Fees can be ascertained on
application at the College or by letter.
301 A PITT STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.ty
s
Alt'
1
k
BUNYIP
FORE
DEVI
,f One man saved the price of his Bonyip Tree and Stump Puller in clearing
6 acres of land. This is a common experience with every “ Bunyip " owner.
The “ Bunyip " is the most effective, safe and economical Puller on the
market to-day; one man can easily work it. We have sold hundreds in Australia.
We ship the “ Bunyip ” as far afield as Russia.
Write for the fullest particulars.
Ask also about the Speedie Patent Rabbit Trap—lo/6 complete.
John Cooper 3D, vSons,
“For all Farming Ironmongery,**
287-289 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE
SEEING IS BELIEVING.
LE BLOND LATHES.
LE BLOND 21in. HEAVY DUTY SINGLE PULLEY DRIVE LATHE.
REMOVES 45 CUBIC INCHES OF 25 P. CARBON STEEL PER MINUTE.
Diameter of Bar 6 inches
Cutting Speed 40 feet
Depth of Cut 34 inch
Feed Per Revolution of Spindle % inch
Material 25 P. Carbon
Diameter of Driving Pulley • 16 inches
-Width of Belt 5 inches
R.P.M 400
Pounds of Metal Removed Per Hour . 765
Performance of this kind is only possible on a lathe of this character: —With
patent form, of compensating Vee. castings of steel mixture, hardened steel
spindle bearings, and a headstoek with a high speed, constant torque driving
belt.
CARRIED IN STOCK BY
BENSON BROTHERS
(Sole Agents for
Australasia).
We Stock all Classes of Engineers’ Machine Tools,
51-53 DRUITT ST., SYDNEY. 60 QUEEN ST., HELBOURNE.
CASH BUYING
IS A POWER.
IT is an enormous power to get costs
down to bedrock.
WHEN in addition there is the abil-
ity to buy in large quantities,
costs reach zero, and even lower.
THE “Fx. & R.” Manicure Case of
Solid Silver Pieces of extra
strong and heavy weights that
will wear a lifetime, is an illus-
tration of the above, and allowed
the manufacturers to make them
in slack times.
OUR Managing Director ordered them
in London in grosses.
THEY are the most wonderful value
Australia has seen.
Fairfax 8 Roberts,
LTD.,
The Oldest Jewellery House
In Sydney,
23 & 25 HUNTER STREET.
Plain Figure's—Cash. '
Khß
1
heavy .Solid Silver Manicure Set, In handsome
case, 40/-; less 20% discount, 8/-; nett, 32/«


TOBACCO QUALITIES
IT is an admitted fact that present tobacco
crops are eminently unsatisfactory, and
manufacturers who are compelled to
purchase at the present time cannot obtain
so good a tobacco as hitherto. It is owino*
to this deterioration that many cigarettes
are degenerating in quality.
The manufacturers of “Winfred”
Cigarettes are in a unique position.
They hold an enormous stock of the
finest selected tobacco purchased during the
past three or four years, so that they are able
to maintain, for some years to come, the
present high-class quality of their cigarettes
without increasing the price.
M
10 for 6d.
CIGARETTES
To be obtained throughout Australasia.
10 for 6d.
Sole Manufacturers : ARDATH TOBACCO CO. LTD., London.
COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE EXHIBITION
Of vital interest and importance to every branch of commerce, manufacturing, wholesale and retail.
Kvery leading Manufacturer of Commercial Vehicles, Petrol, Steam and Blectric will be represented.
Every business and trade will be provided for. Motor Lorries, Vans,
Charabancs, Omnibuses, Taxicabs, Agricultural Motors and Tractors, Motor Fire
Engines, Ambulances, Dust and Water Carts —in fact, every conceivable variety
of motor vehicle for light and heavy haulage, and for every commercial, municipal
and agricultural purpose, will be included. A comprehensive display of tyres,
wheels and accessories will complete the display.
19 26
1913
JULY
OLYMPIA
Enquiries
Traders,
at the Socie
Limited,
s
of
axwell
<C/
O
%
■ / k
&
LONDON
Motor Manufacturers and
House, Arundel St., Strand, w.c.


Beauty Purity
and Health
Of Skin and Hair
R
&
tSSg
&
r.
/m
Promoted fcjy
(Moira Soap
and Ointment
Cutlcura Soap and Ointment are sold throughout
the world. A liberal sample of each, with 32-page
booklet on the care and treatment of the skin and
scalp, sent post-free. Address It. Towns & Co.,
>ept. N, Sydney, N. S. W.
Clogged-Up Liver
Causes Headache
It’s a foolish proceeding to suffer from
■constipation, sick headache, biliousness,
■dizziness, indigestion and
kindred ailments when
CARTER’S LITTLE
LIVER PILLS will
end all misery in
a few hours.
Purely vege-
table. Act
gently on
liver and
bowels.
Small Pill. Small Dose, Small Price.
The GENUINE must bear signature
Carter's
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
5
Her Youife
*<37
£
ro.A
LENS
l|l w (U.S.AJ
Mexican
WALNUT a TAIN
for Grey Hair
IS THE
only permanent and really satisfactory
ONE SOLUTION Hair Stain
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES
The Best Bush Doctor of All!
If you’ve got a poisoned hand, a sore leg, an abscess,
a boil, a running sore, Eczema in any form, Barcoo
ro t—or if you’ve a wound that won’t heal or a
jagged cut, all you need
have to cure it is a tin of
Wilkinson’s
Eclectric Ointment.
Price 1/6, Posted 1/9. J. WILKINSON, Chemist,
K.E.8., Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane
ASTHMA CURE
GHIMAULTIS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GIiIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR*
ETTES. Sod tty all Chemists. _____
Australian Magazine. THE LONE
1 HAND, the National Monthly. Price t,d.
HOWTO
GROW HAIR
A Simple, Safe and Reliable Way that Produces Surprising Results.
NEW preparation causes big stir among hair specialists.
The above dearly shows Results from a Short Course of my True Hair=Growing Compound.
10,000 FREE trial boxes.
Those who are troubled with falling hair, dandruff,
baldness, itching scalp, etc., know full well the
humiliation that they cause. There is no need, how-
ever, of such conditions. These troubles can be
quickly overcome by my True Hair Grower.
I am not an advertising quack, but am a business
man. My hair began to grow thin about the time
1 reached the age of thirty. When I had reached the
age of thirty-five the top of my head was quite bald.
1 had considerable pride, and sought for something
to cause renewed growth. I invested in every pre-
paration that I could see or hear of, and here let me
say that not only did I try all the English so-called
restorers, but those of Continental Europe. I also
visited specialists. My experimenting cost me many
sovereigns and considerable time —yet the s hairs came
not. I had given up the idea of ever growing hair
again. One afternoon, while enjoying a brief busi-
ness respite by an Alpine trip, I fell in with an old
collegiate chemist, whose hair was particularly plen-
tiful. I jokingly remarked that I wished he could
spare some of his hair for my benefit. This lead him
to tell me that he understood the human hair as well
as a good dentist understands teeth. He wrote out a
formula, and suggested that I have a quantity of the
compound prepared. I did this a few days later. I
was astonished to see the hair coming forth after
several applications, and within six weeks my head
was covered by a firm, yet soft, black growth of hair.
Since then the hair on my head has been as luxuriant
as when in my school days. Having arranged for
the legal right to do so, I have for some time been
privately selling this marvellous hair-growing com-
pound. I hold over one thousand letters from people
who have actually grown new hair through the
medium of my true hair grower. I do not pretend
to say it is the only hair grower in the world—l am
not interested in decrying others—but I do assert
that it is the most reliable, and in the end by far the
cheapest.
Baldness, Dandruff, Itching, etc.,
Free Trial Coupon.
Cut out this Coupon and send with 3 stamps
to cover postage, etc., and I will immediately
post a large trial box of my True Hair Grower.
John Craven Burleigh, Dept. 7, 107 Castlereagh
Street. Svdnev.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BV ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
1/1*, 2/9 & 4/6. Made in England.
tfjilcrcdf 1 *
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks ot
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
‘he cough of BRONCHITIS and
* CONSUMPTION.
ActB like a charm In
DIARR HCEA and simple DYSENTERY.
If you want the very best
Flannelette
the Old Country Produces
buy HORROCKSES’
LATFST
GRAND PRIZE
BRUSSELS
EXHIBITION, 1910
SEE HORROCKSES’ NAME ON
SELVEDGES and decline all substitutes
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and Storekeepers.
The “Swan-Safety” is simpler and more reliable than any
other pen made; may be carried in any position, in any pocket,
handbag or trunk, without fear of leakage; with the “ladder”
feed, erratic working is out of the question; the nib is the
product of over 60 years’ experience; the holder is beautifully
balanced and holds a good-supply of ink.
SWA
F©««TF»EN
Sold by all
Stationers.
Catalogue. Free on Request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London, W.C.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only) :
J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255aGeorgeSt., Sydney
M
1 J
Benger’s Food is specially pre-
pared to build up the weakened
digestive system, and tc pro-
mote a high state of bodily
nutrition while doing so.
It is the only food enabling rest and regulated
exercise to be given to the digestive functions.
Benger’s is not a predigested food, nor does
it contain dried milk. It is made with fresh milk,
and forms a dainty and delicious cream with a
delicate biscuit flavour. Patients never tire of
M
but, on the contrary, continue to enjoy it.
Every householder should possess a copy of '* BENGER’S FOOD.
AND HOW TO USE IT—FOR INFANTS, INVALIDS, AND THE
A r,RD.” Post Fr e from ___
BENGER'S FOOD, Ltd., Otter Work*. MANCHESTER, ENG.
117, PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
890 NZ Render's Food is sol l in ti <s bv Dmo-is's, etc., everywhere.
Foodl
Business, Robbery, etc.
Soon the .world will spell them /owstralia and
Miogriland !
* * * *
An inventor of some note, E. H. W. Crossley, has
returned to Sydney, after an absence of 15 years.
During that brief period he has meandered over
500,000 miles of land and liquid with the “Nautilus”
wreck locater in one portmanteu, and a submersible
submarine for deep-sea salvage, research work and
pearling in the other. The wreck locater is, briefly,
a captive buoy which floats above the place where
D. Jones has hidden the evidence of his guilt. The
submarine vessel can submerge itself, with two opera-
tors inside its waistcoat, to a depth of 150 fathoms,
which is nearly as deep as some of the machinations
of the anti-Australian parishioners to defeat the
Referenda. The Australian Government has a reflec-
tive and baleful eye on this vessel just now, and this
fact has, no doubt, given birth to the rumor at the
Wimmen’s Political Clique that the low Laborahs
intended to put the pearl—ah—works under that
stupid Socialism.
“Toltec”: Are we Australians troglodytes? If not,
why do we so dearly love to go underground to eat
our food ? One can readily understand the Celts or
the Eskimo preferring, from mere instinct and by
heredity, to descend into the earth to tear their
tucker. But by what strange diversion of atavism
do Australians, children of the sun, living in the finest
average climate on the planet, patronise tea-shops
and caf6s underneath the footpath ? Six new dining
places have been opened in Melbourne’s Collins-street
during the past 12 months, and five of them are below
the surface. To me, an old boulevardier, the custom
is incomprehensible. Every one of those eating-
houses should have been put on the roof, up near the
sun and the fresh air, and not down near the sewer
and the gaspipe, amidst mephitic vapor and in the
unwholesome earth. The Australian has much to
learn about refinement in cooking and eating.
“Scared to Death”: It’s an ill wind that doesn’t
turn some commercial windmill. Went into the neigh-
boring ironmonger’s, the other evening, to get some
household artillery for the reception of the masked
burglar. The obliging young man in charge opened
the showcase and took out a pretty automatic pistol.
“This,” he said oroudly, “this is the sort of gun
used by” “Royalty ?” I suggested. “No, sir!
This gun” “Roosevelt, then?” “No, sir!
This gun was used” “Balkan war?” I per-
sisted. He angrily disembowelled the thing, and
strewed the curious parts on the counter for a loading
demonstration. “This pistol,” he remarked, in a cold,
level voice, “was used by the Houndsditch anarchists
and kept 1000 troops at bay. The price is 50 shil-
lings.” Then I took him fully into my confidence.
I said, “Look here, I am not as rich as a Houndsditch
anarchist. Have you got something else-—something
not quite so good—about twelve-and-six, say?” He
had ; and he sold it to me with the contempt I de-
served. I haven’t the slightest intention of using it,
#*ecause I’m certain it would explode in my face.
But 'I don’t grudge the twelve-and-six. It was worth
the money to hear the beautiful way he spoke about
those anarchists .who died to make a gunmaker’s ad-
vertisement.
* * * #
Wagga (N.S.W.) is sitting quiet and reminding it-
self that, anyhow, there are other fools. A while
back a philanthropist made a promise of £2OOO to
the local hospital—it had nursed him, he said, and he
was grateful. The committee soon got busy, and the
doctors were invited to discuss the plans of the new
wards which were to be built with the gift. But
just before the meeting, the sec. of the hospital got a
note from the Chief Sec.’s office in Sydney. It ap-
pears that the gentleman who was to supply the cash
had just come out of gaol after serving two years or
so for false pretences ; also he is known to the police
under 10 different names ; finally, his whereabouts at
the moment were a mystery. When the doctors
heard the letter read, they just looked at each other
and laughed, and then went home. Meanwhile the
local paper is putting the inevitable cadge nicely by
inviting Wagga to lessen the disappointment.
“Straight Wire”: Agents engaged in selling busi-
nesses on commission are not always the
sharps they are painted. Numbers of men
who are ostensibly established in a concern
are really trading in selling businesses. They
take up a standstill or declining business, put a little
life into it, and place it for sale in an agent’s hands.
The agent introduces prospective buyers, but the
owner doesn’t come to terms. In the meantime he
notes those prospective buyers, and subsequently he
advertises in the papers that the sale of his business
4s withdrawn from all agents. Then one or other of
the good marks is accidentally encountered, and a
sale is effected. Men who hav6 >sold half a dozen
businesses that way laugh at the simplicity of the
average agent. They even say that he is an ass in an
office.
The imported expert, Brewis, gets the job
oc Director of Australia’s new lighthouse
service at £BOO a year. On July 1 the Com-
monwealth will formally take over all the
State lights, glares, torches and illumina-
tions, and get a move on with long-needed
improvements. .In addition to a central
staff, Brewis will have four district staffs
with salaries aggregating over £lO,OOO per
annum, four steamers are to be supplied,
new lighthouses built, wireless communica-
tions arranged, fog signals started, and
other up-to-date safety schemes installed.
Australia is going to get on to its job at
last.
THE DEATHLESS AD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Each man’s a walking ad. to his good deeds
Until he dies.
And when he kicks the pail ■ someone proceeds
To advertise
Upon a whited stone his place and date
Of death and birth,
And then a little verse or two to state
What he was worth
Unto his sad relations now bereaved,
Who miss him so—
Poor souls, if what they write ’s to be believed
They’re sick with woe!
Although, as on the stone they advertise,
He’s gone above,
They tell a tale of chronic streaming eyes
And deathless love.
And if the corpse, while on the sunny earth,
Made any hay
And leaves some tin behind, his actual worth
’Twere hard to say.^
Unto his legatees, left here below,
Who, though they call,
Find nothing left to answer but his pho-
to on the wall.
Now, if I have a ton of cash or so
When 1 depart,
I’ll leave it to some hospital, although
’Twill break my heart
To let it go at all, for always tin
Did pass me by.
I cannot work, but p’raps some day I’ll win
A Tatt.’s, and I
Will be a corpse of many means one day
With wealth untold,
And when I know I can no longer stay
Among my gold,
I’ll play philanthropist to advertise
My virtues rare,
And won’t 1 swagger round in Paradise
If I get there.
N.S.W.
FREDA OLDMAN.


Note well the Rule!
j?C
I
' -\ ■
i \ \
If your car is equipped with rims in inch size, you should
always use tyres of American size..
Tyres in millimetre dimensions do not accurately fit rims
in inch size. It is a makeshift to which one should resort only
in a case of dire necessity.
manufactures Non-Skids, Plain Treads, and Inner Tubes in
American sizes, and in all ordinary dimensions.
ANZ. 7.
To be obtained from
ALL THE LEADING GARAGES.
Swift, Safe and Easy Shaving
Result of Scientific Razor Construction.
Wonderful Simplicity of Holder and Flexible
Blade, with Positive Adjustment to any Beard.
An inventor and mechanical expert says of the
Gillette Safety Razor: “It is the simplicity of
the thing that fascinates me. Here is a curved
guard, two pieces —a wafer-like, flexible blade
—and a handle that screws the whole thing
together. The blade is held automatically in
alignment. The adjustment is positive and in-
stantaneous, controlled by a turn of the
screw handle and the flexibility of
the blade itself. No clips, catches
or springs. No need for stropping
or honing/’
M
Three
piecet
ud Blade.
That's all
Simplicity
Itself
What the Gillette will do for You.
You will be equally fascinated by the vast improvement in shaving
afforded by the Gillette. No matter how tender your skin or tough and wiry
your beard, the Gillette will give you a clean, velvety shave—a light shave or
a close shave—without the slightest roughness or irritation.
Think of the comfort of it : the ability to shave every morning in a few
minutes. The convenience and simplicity—no litter of strops and hones. No
Considering al. the Gillette means in comfort
and economy, it should be in the hands of ever y
man with a beard to shave. Don’t be without
it another day* Of all high-class Cutlers. Iron-
mongers. Hairdressers, Chemists and Fancy
Goods shops. Many different styles to select
from. Write to-day for Illustrated and Descrip-
tiveßooklet of prices. Please mention this paper.
Look carefully for our Trade Markon
Razor, Blades and Case.
Gillette
.WO SIKOPHWO hO HONING
Safety
Razor
M
BRITISH MADE.
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR LTD., London, England.
KNOWN THE
WORLD OVER.
S # HOFFNUNG & CO., LTD., Agents for Australasia.
A TOP-NOTCH BREAK
3H\
THE
TOP-NOTCH
OF SCOTCH
JfmßscmlV
An ideal refresher during “a hundred up.”
King George IV,” like a fine player,
scores every time it goes to the table,
so take the “cue,” leave the “rest,”
and don’t “miss” or be “baulked”
of this exquisite beverage.
“King George IV” is “top notch” in all
the essentials of a high grade whisky
—great age—fine bouquet—
rounded mellowness—and
'V. perfect purity.
The Australian
Magazine.
THE LONE HAND
The National
flonthly, 6d.
ONTNENOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s” best drawings. F ull Bulletin size
Price. 2 Is.


The BEST HOUSE for all SMOKERS’ REQUISITES
smoke:
SUNOU
a
c<z
The
Perfect
Pipe
.Tobacco.
Highest Grade
Virginian.
Awarded Four
Gold Medals.
DARK OR
LIGHT.
In Plug or Gut.
6|-
per lb.
Post
Free.
<§s?>
THE BEST PIPES
OBTAINABLE.
They Surpass all others In QUALITY, FINISH,
DESICN and WORKMANSHIP.
6Nl>
Made from the Finest Qualify Selected Old Briar
Root, with Superior Hand-Cut Para Vulcanite
Mouthpieces.
Extra Heavy Sterling Silver Mounts.
IN ALL THE LEADINC SHAPES
Price O I
IP®?*'
each
(Post Free).
A DELIGHTFUL S FASCINATING Cigarette.
H
I
G
H
E
S
T
G
R
A
D
E
G. VJ fv l\ UT t o
uOu o o u WN r-Vy
Jhree Witches
VIRGINIA
6?
S')
p\\V
B.Morris
&SonsL t p
LONDON E.
p
E
R
F
E
C
T
L
Y
M
A
D
E
Made from Selected Sun Ripe Virginian Tobacco.
They possess a Fragrance of Unique Excellence.
Smoked by Connoisseurs Everywhere.
Price 5J
per 100,
Post Free.
Simmons Ltd.
Head Depot: HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches—City, Suburbs
and Newcastle
m
m
“GOLDEN KEY
Cigars de Luxe
(made in England).
Irresistibly Appeal to
all Connoisseurs
because of their
Exquisite Flavor
and
Delicate Aroma.
Two Strengths —
MILD and MEDIUM.
Packed in HEAVY CEDAR
PRESENTATION CABINETS,
containing 50 Cigars,
22/6
POST
free.
Try Sample Lot
of 5 Cigars,
packed in Cedar
Box Post Free.
26
Save “ GOLDEN KEY ”
Bands for Prizes.
PUMPS WATER
DAY AND NIGHT
AUTOMATICALLY.
GET OUR FREE TRIAL
OFFER.
Low in first cost, easy to instal, no expense to operate, any
capacity desired for Country Homes, Farms, Dairies,
Gardens, Iri'igation, Town Plants, Railroad Tanks, etc.
RIFE HYDRAULIC RAMS
RAISE WATER 30 FEET for EVERY FOOT OF FALL.
Satisfaction Guaranteed. Over 7000 in use.
If there is a stream, spring or pond within a mile—
WRITE FOR FREE PLANS and BOOK.
2613 Trinity Bldg. RIFE ENGINE CO. New York.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
-nm ,m iil»« ■*' [ Ing»g——HM^
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky
Dog’s Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
Will Andrade ™ BOOKS.
An.v of these Catalogues
Free for the asking :
(1) Plays, Recitations.
(2) Magical Goods.
(3) Useful Books.
(4) Building Books.
(5) Mechanical and
Engineering Books.
(6) Medical Books.
(7) Socialistic Books.
(8) Sixpenny Novels.
(9) Australian Books.
(10) Athletic Books.
(11) Wigs, Beards,
Grease Paints,
Masks.
Easy Method op Learning French, German,
Italian, Spanish, 1/7 each language; Speeches and
Toasts for all occasions, 1/1; Every Man His Own
Carpenter, 1/1; Bernard Macfadden's Building of
Vital Power, 5/4 ; Macfadden’s Superb Virility of
Manhood, 5/4; Macfadden’s Sweethearts for Lives,
5/4; Amateur Conjuring Book, easy tricks, illus-
trated, 7d.; Boxing and Self-Defence, 1/2; Book
of Love Letters, 1/- ; Hypnotism, Mesmerism and
Clairvoyance, 1/1 ; Horse Doctor, 1/1 ; What Young
People Should Know, Confidential Talks, 1/1; Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book of Nature, the only
genuine and complete edition, 3/6 ; New 1912
edition, enlarged, 32 extra plates, illustrating
female anatomy, handsome cloth cover, 5/- ; N<w
Tricks with Cards, 1/- ; House Painting, Paper-
hanging, Whitewashing, etc., 1/4; 3000 Priceless
Secrets, 1/8 ; Irish Jokes and Witty Sayings. 9d. ;
Complete Letter Writer for Ladies and Gentlemen,
1/-; Dancing Without an Instructor, 1/-; Lovers’
Guide to Courtship and Marriage, 1/-
UtTAND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
/Yl ASKS
For Fancy Dress
Halls, Skating
Carnivals, Pro-
cessions, etc.
Large Variety.
Write for List.
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
2] free.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne.
M
FARQUHAR’S
Agricultural Machines
are the most economical because the first cost is
the only cost, and as quality is the prime factor
in their construction they give the longest and
best service, and eventually prove themselves
the least expensive.
We manufacture Engines, Boilers, Traction
Engines, Saw Mills, Horse Powers, Plows,
Harrows, Cultivators, Corn Planters,
Cotton Planters, Grain Drills, Potato
Diggers, Corn Shellers, Store Trucks, etc.
Write for Free Illustrated Catalogues.
Correspondence in all languages.
Cable Address : “ FENANKLE,” New York.
M
A. B. FARQUHAR & CO.,
Cotton Exchange Building,
NEW YORK, U.S.A.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OK NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrik
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zolas,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
date Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, os 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys ok Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s Adventures of a Flirt, Is 3d. Parlor Tricks and
Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, Is 2d. All The
Bulletin senes. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales, Is 3d.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d! Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted, ’sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce. Us. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, 6s. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford) 9d The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God ’and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d ’ Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is 6d.
&
B
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER TO THE- COMMONWEALTH.-*!
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Mktal-workino sop. Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is Sd. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano. Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easj-, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations’ and portraits, Is ; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster
Is posted. Cabinet Makers' Handybook, Is 3d
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McJjougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others ana
save your cash. Established So 1 ears.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
HE GO I FROH THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ° U
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY" BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE s - ■
How TO Make Up, Illustrated Gu:d “ '‘ e
posted. Xew Thicks with Cards, Is. &ai ° u - s Min-
is. Old Bush Bongs, Is 3d Dost. » gd.
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illust . 18 .
ARISTOTLE, 3S 6d. CLOG
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions Sucre!
is 2d. Guide to auctioneering, - • • LovwtB '
History Court of England, Is P • g ls oj.
Letter Writer, Is. All About * ’ to all
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, . , r
Decrees, New Edition Is Vffid post.
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology HgADS
Ingersoll’s Works, Sd, -s. H AuV ick to a
(Jas. Coates), ls 3d posted. Cuevass SoNfl
Wife, 3s M posted. Wondbrfu free.
Book, over 300 latest songs, posted.
Bennarr Macfadden s Works, r , kkrs an.dSusar-
Sappho, Is. Bread and Bwcuir Bah Handbook,
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. y W ™ “ t . iooNb*
1s 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is postand
Recitations and Readings, Is J*~ ,> s Labg k Un-
its Cure, Is 2d posted. n lus ., leather
abridged Dictionary, 1700 PM ). vhv pa y 3 and i
uound, my price, 15s post wdW Dy n.v
guineas). Bootmaking and R^ aib^ 0 g 0 ’ r u’ S UniveM* 1
mos and Electric Motors, is -d. g> c i o tl<
ASSISTANT AND COMPLETE CI a,RVOYAN«,
TO '“


D» Sheldons
HSr
WILL CURE YOUR BACKACHE. KIDNEY.
BLADDER OR URINARY TROUBLES
OR WE WILL REFUND THE MONEY-SHELDON DRUG C“L T -»
That’s a plain, straightforward statement,
and the words mean exactly what they say
Gin Pills must cure your Back-
ache, Bladder, Kidney, or Urinary
Troubles, or we are obliged to re-
fund your money.
They must cure, or your money will
be cheerfully refunded.
You are to be the judge and jury.
Your word will be accepted _____
as final.
Your money will be re-
funded without quibble or
argument of any kind if
Gin Pills do not effect
a cure. Consider what this
method of doing business
means.
It means that we have posi-
tive knowledge of the cura-
tive properties of Gin
Pills.
It means that Gin Pills
will cure 99 cases of Back-
ache, Kidney, Bladder or
Urinary Troubles out of every
100.
We know that—know it positively.
It also means that we have a large
faith in the honesty of men and
women.
We do not believe that a single man
or woman out of one hundred who
have suffered the torments of
Backache, Kidney, Bladder or
Urinary Troubles would deny the
cure Gin Pills assure. 99
out of every xoo would joyously
admit it.
SHELDON
Pf
LDOHDRUCC
This extraordinary offer is made
because of these facts :
The known medicinal properties of
Gin Pills and the honesty of
human nature.
Each Gin Pill contains all the con-
stituents of a pint of the finest gin com-
bined with other diuretics by
a new method and process,
and form a remedy which
effects cures in 99 cases out
of 100.
Gin Pill 3 are put up in
glass bottles hermetically
sealed, and we sell them to
you with the absolute guar-
antee that if they do not
cure you we will refund
your money.
They are sold in two- size
bottles, at l/6, or in larger
bottles, holding more than
double the quantity, at 2/6.
Buy a large bottle at 2/6, and give
them a fair test ; use two-thirds of
the bottle, and if you feel they are
not benefiting you, return your bottle
to the chemist or storekeeper from
whom you purchased them, and he
will refund you the money, or com-
municate direct with the Sheldon
Drug Company, Ltd., 15 O'Connell
Street, Sydney.
Under these conditions is it not
worth while for any sufferer from
Backache, Kidney, Bladder or Urin- ■
ary Troubles to at once test this new
remedy ?
Dr. Sheldon’s
GIN PILLS
For
BacKache
<S Kidney
Troubles
WAVERLEY FOUNTAIN PENS
M
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
:: FREE
DIFFER FROM ALL OTHERS BY REASON OF
THE ELASTICITY AND PERFECTION OF THE
GOLD WAVERLEY NIB. IT DOES NOT TIRE THE
HAND AS DO THE STUBBORN LIFELESS NIBS
IN ORDINARY FOUNTAIN PENS. THE FLOW OF
INK IS FAULTLESS. ..
; SOLD BY ;
STATIONERS
AND
; DEALERS ;
Wholesale Agent: ROBERT HUTTON, 321 Flinders Lane, Melbourne
HOLLOWAY’S
Pills <a Ointment
A TRIAL of HOLLOWAY’S PILLS has meant
The Dawning'Brighter Day
to many a sufferer from liver, kidney and stomach
troubles. For over three-score years and ten they
have been supreme in all cases of biliousness,
headache, indigestion, depression and other corn-
points which usually arise from constipation.
You should also use HOLLOWAY'S OINT-
MENT, which possesses remarkable healing
virtues in cases of skin affections and sores,
rheumatism, lumbago, sciatica, etc. See to
it that you always have a box and pot handy.
To be obtained from all Chemists, Stores,
etc.
Manufactured only at
113 SOUTHWARK ST. (late 78 New Oxford St.), LONDON, S.E.
The Old, Old Story.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There was a king with a large jaw and a queen
with a plain face on the throne of England ; there was
a king with a large jaw and a queen with a fair face
on the throne of France. In both countries it was
as clear as crystal to the lords of the State preserves
of loaves and fishes that things in general were settled
for ever.— Charles Dickens, in “A Tale of Two
Cities.”
rn'JIS is the old, old story—story of
I Life and Fate :
-1- Of love surpassing a woman’s, and
fiercer than woman’s hate;
Of love for one’s home and country—fighting
with one intent:
Be it as small as a country, or as wide as a
continent.
Be it republic or kingdom—snow-waste or
sand-waste or sod—
Subject to gods or idols, or Christ or Allah
—or God !
Black men, and brown men and white men;
captains of realms brought low—
Slaves of the basest nations, and princes
with youth aglow.
Chiefs of the sword —or the boar-spear-—the
lance or the nullah or axe;
From the Saxon Alfred and Harold, to the
last of Tasmania’s Blacks!
Strong men and brave men, and weaklings
who fought on the Weaker Side,
Till their bones gleamed white to the Hea-
vens, and the country was “pacified.”
Cave or hut in the forest, or tent on the
desert, was home—
Bare breasts of brave “Barbarians” barring
the roads from Rome ;
Shafts of the hairy Norsemen, ringing on
plate and mail;
Spears from the shrouded desert, reddened
to tell the tale,
Till our hammers rang on their statues, as
we camped by temple and dome,
When we’d taught their shattered legions
that all roads lead to Rome !
Red eyes watch from the branches (what
ape-like men are these?)
Matted heads from their burrows in the
roots of the giant trees:
Shapes that are human glide from the depths
of the forest boles — 1
Oh ! the straightened scythes and sickles and
the plough-shares bound to poles !
Oh! the rush to certain slaughter, because
of a monarch’s crime,
Of the bands that bore no banner, and the
feet that kept no time!
Oh! the back-to-back resistance of the stub-
born “boor” and “clown”—
Oh! the wild song growing fainter, as the
volleys mowed them down !
Oh! the yell from Hell to Heaven, of a
peasant fighting yet,
And the gasp of a throttled horseman, and
the thrust of a bayonet!
Oh ! the blood-soaked coat of sheep-skin, and
the hair thrust back to see
The triumph of blind oppression and the
murder of Liberty !
And the folk of the peasant village flee to the
marsh and mire,
M here the wives of charcoal burners are
crouching afar from a fire.
And the old men and children huddle —while
the village flames, for a sign—
Where the daughters of slaughtered swine-
herds hide from the greater swine,
A-tremble at every hoof-beat. Nobles! the
time is near,
When your dainty ladies in terror shall hide
them with less to fear!
This is the old. old story (tear out the
bricks and flags)
Shrilled by the starving children, screeched
from the throats of hags :
Shrieked by the maniac mothers, roared by
the maddened men,
Down from the roofs of hunger, and up from
the sewered den !
Storm in the streets of Paris ! Fire in vil-
lage and town !
The blood of the “Vermin” is - up and the
blood of oppression is down !
Fire to the roofs of Moscow! wider and
fiercer and higher—
(Holland could fight with water, but Mos-
cow must fight with fire.)
We have different uses for fire. —Serfs ! ’tis
your country still!
Nobles of Russia ! (or Poland!) Tyrants—-
or what you will —
We are patriots still, O Invasion ! Where
is your boasted might?
With the Russian Wolf on your left —and
the Russian Bear on your right!
A' horseman waits by the ferry, where no
boat waits for a load —
Three lanterns hang from a belfry, and four
hoofs ring on the road !
A call to the sleeping homesteads —men who-
have made a vow —
“If they want war and must have it, let it
be here and now.”
Lightly they tread on the grasses, grasping
the fljntlock gun,
Shadowy figures of farmers in the woods of
Lexington!
(America boasts no longer; this is the turn-
ing tide —
We have outgrown our Freedom, we have
outgrown our pride ;
We have outgrown our honor, we have out-
grown our truth —
We of the younger nations — We have out-
grown our youth!
Flintlock and truth and honor, “pepper-
box,” pistol and pike,
Gave way to a race of liars, made way for
the insane strike.)
Dawn on the slopes of Eureka ! misty and
cold and grey.
Clay-stained sons of the Nations (and their
leader said “Let us pray.”)
Dawn on the slopes of Eureka —and Day in
a Commonwealth?
Still as the years go over, tyranny creeps
_ by stealth.
It is not day, my brothers, all is not well
and right;
The volley from far Eureka is echoing here
to-night!
Allah be praised ! They’d wake us ! Wake
us if that must be!
Spear from the rock waste and desert and
asres of mystery.
The Lion, the Bear and the Jackal, in the
goat’s blood their thirst would slake.
Tripoli, Turkey and Persia, say, are these
all you’ll wake??
Beware of the East, O Christian, for the
. sak e of your fairest and best;
It is written, and, written, remembered that
the tide of Invasion goes West.
You builded a wall, O China ! to keep your
enemies out;
You cradled the mightiest river and you con-
quered the flood and the drought.
1 atient and peaceful and honest —children
of Industry—
Wise with the wisdom of ages—yet they
could not let you be!
Aor wall nor mountain nor ocean justice or
peace could win.
You builded a wall, O China! Let them see
that it keep you in.
England ! Preserved from invasion through
the stormyYatter years—
Blind to the crimes of nations, and blind to
their victims’ tears!
Leave to the little people the barren and use-
less mile,
Turn to your own and save them, saving
yourself the while!
Starved in the streets of London, children
of misery—
England! do you not hear them? The
Drums of Battersea !
Giving our youth and our old age, staking
our best and our all —
Fighting in jungle and desert, firing from
r window and wall;
Whether we plan in a cellar, whether we
plot m a den,
Or write while we starve in a garret, we are
the leaders of men.
Hunted and murdered wherever the foot of
Oppression has trod.
For the sake of Humanity aid us! We are
thy rebels, Oh God!
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.
Art and Snails.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“~V/¥T lIEKE are you going to now?”
f f demanded the stout lady on the
verandah, as her husband ap-
peared with a lighted lantern.
He paused at the top of the steps that led
down to the sleeping garden, and peered at
her patiently over his spectacles. “I was
just going to get some snails, my dear.”
She fanned angrily, and sniffed. ‘‘You're
always looking for the filthy things ! I be-
lieve you would rather go and look for snails
than sit and talk to me for five minutes. As
for asking me to sing to you !” She
broke off, and laughed in a short, unpleasant
way that was worse than a malediction.
. 1 “ e snail-hunter, recognising that he was
centre of a domestic typhoon, hesi-
tated in helpless anger.
The fan went faster than ever. “Go on
t°. your snails!” sneered the shadowy
wielder. It isn’t necessary to be sociable.
1 don t mind being snubbed and slighted !”
“Oh, don’t talk nonsense!” chattered her
husband impulsively. “/ ’m not slighting
you ! Why can’t you sing and let me listen
from the garden?”
‘‘But you never asked me!”
“Well, I’m asking you now!”
“Of course” —with deadly sarcasm—“of
course you don’t want me to sing!”
The snail-hunter drew a deep breath. “Oh,
yes I do !”
“Then why don’t you stay here instead of
rushing away into the garden the minute
you ve swallowed your tea? Ho you know
that I have not been asked to approach the
piano since Mr. Storpor went away to Eng-
land?”
“Why can’t you go to the d—d piano
without being asked?”
“You might at least pay me the compli-
ment of asking me!”
The snail-hunter said “Bah!” under his
breath. Still it was sufficiently distinct.
“Anyone would think that I couldn't play
or sing a note the way you go on! Not once
have you asked”
“But I’m asking you now, aren’t I?”
“Yes, but I have to ask you to ask me!”
The baffled hunter turned away, and,
armed with the lantern, stumbled furiously
into the maze of dark bushes.. “D —n it
all!” he muttered. “I wish she had that
singing bounder back again! Never could
stand him myself, but he was a useful brute,
after all!” Reaching a likely haunt, he
went down on his knees and commenced to
search carefully for slimy destroyers. “Never
ask her to sing!” he mumbled furiously to a
sleeping rose-bush. “Why the blazes should
I ask her to sing? Who told her she could
sing? Wish to Heaven she could find an-
other musical maniac like that Storpor
bounder. I swear I'm not going to encour-
age her to kick up a row!” He went on with
his search, and was feeling happy over
several fat Captures, when loud, defiant
music was heard within, and robust but un-
interesting cries and whoops troubled the
dreaming night.
“She thinks she’s Melba!” soliloquised the
vindictive shadow with the lantern.
* * » *
Three evenings later, the snail-hunter and 1
his bosom friend communed together in a
homeward-bound train. The snail-hunter
was desperate. “She keeps on bothering nue
about her infernal singing—or what she
calls singing. Wants to know why I don’t
ask her to sing and hang over the d —d
piano. That bounder Storpor, who went to
England some months ago, used to talk
about her voice and flatter her until she was
nearly off her head and ready to play his
accompaniments until the piano fell to
pieces under her hands. Now dashed if she
doesn’t want me to do the same thing!”
The bosom friend pawed bis grey mous-
tache and nodded sympathetically. “They’re
like that,” he remarked. Then, suddenly re-
collecting : “You used to sing a bit once,
usen’t you, Dredglin?”
Dredglin started guiltily. “Yes, but hang
it all, Branger, that was 15 years ago. I
never could sing much. I only did it be-
cause I couldn’t stand sitting round at those
confounded evenings we used to go to.”
Branger slapped his knee. “That’s the
whole trouble! Fifteen years ago there
were no gramophones, and we had to amuse
one another as best we could. Every dashed
girl and fellow who had any sort of voice
got a hearing, so every drawing-room was
an inferior South-street competition. Now,
(Continued on next page.)


*
A
Zam-Buk Heals Painful Injuries.
Odd jobs about the house or garden, especi-
ally if they entail the use of tools to which he
is not accustomed, often result in a crushed
thumb or some painful injury for the head of
the household. His wife, too, is continu-
ally “in the* wars” while doing the house-
work, and scarcely a day passes
without one of the children getting
hurt in one way or another.
Cuts, bruises, burns and scalds
bring more trouble than enough as
the housewife has it —unless there’s
a pot of Zam-Buk bandy. If this wise precau-
tion has been taken, each member of the
family dies to Zam-Buk for the speedy relief
from smarting pain that this soothing balm
affords, and the hurt is soon forgotten.
Zam-Buk is an ideal healer for the home
because it is perfectly antiseptic, a reliable
germ-killer (preventing poisoning or fes-
tering), and a natural skin-healer, besides
being so wonderfully soothing. Keep a pot
handy in YOUR home.
'
'N
'i~
\
A
EVERY HOME NEEDS ZAM-BUK
PAINFUL WOUND PROMPTLY HEALED.
Mr. M. O’Regan, of 14 Nash Street, East Perth, W.A., says:—“While
chopping wood a piece flew off, inflicting a nasty, jagged wound on my
left shin. Ulceration set in and my leg swelled up to a great size. The
pain was dreadful. It being impossible to get my boot on, I was unable to
go to work and T bad to lay up. Inflammation spread over my leg and
extended down to my ankle, while matter was freely discharged.
“Poultices and many other remedies were tried, but with no success; instead
of getting better my leg grew worse. My daughter then got a supply of
Zam-Buk and persuaded me to try it. Commencing to dress my leg with
Zam-Buk, I was pleased to find the pain and inflammation were subdtfed. ' This
was so encouraging that 1 persisted with Zam-Buk until the wound was
cleansed of all impurities and healed in a perfect manner. Zam-Buk made
my leg completely better in a splendid fashion, and I was able to get about
with ease.’ -
r
RUB it iiv.
Zam - Buk is
e xce llent for
cuts, bruises,
burns. scad 3.
abrasions and
all in’uris to
the skin; and
promptly ban-
ishes boils,
pimples, run-
ning sores,
ulcers, ring-
worm, barber’s
ras't, sweMinis
and diseased
conditions of
the skin. Zara-
Buk is obtain-
able from all
chemists and
stores atls. Od.
per pot. and
3s. 6d. large
familysize(con
taining nearly
four times the
Is. Cd. pot), or
direct, post
free, from The
Zam-Buk Co,,
39 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
Colic, Diarrhoea and Dysentery
Are diseases that require immediate attention. In almost every neighbourhood
someone has died from these diseases before medicine could be procured or a
phys cian summoned.
Those who rely upon physicians often find that they are away from home when
most needed.
Every family, and especially those who reside in the back blocks, should keep
at hand a bottle of Chamberlain’s Colic & Diarrhoea Remedy.
No physician can prescribe a better medicine for the purpose for which it is
intended. It is invaluable for both children and adults. *3
M
►9
5*
I
©
SO
9-'
3
■s?
M
92
Give Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy
as soon as the child becomes hoarse,
or even after the croupy cough
appears. It will prevent the attack.
It is used in thousands of homes i&
Australasia and we have yet to learn
of a single instance in which it has
not proved effectual.
thank Heaven, we can turn on Melba, or
Harry Lauder, or a crack band, and nobody
has to stop talking-or say ‘Thank you tor
rotten entertainment.”
Dredglin’s eye lighted up. “That’s so, he
murmured.
“Now only the people who can perform
really well are allowed to sing or play. Its
all on account of the high standard set by
the machine. People daren t pit themselves
against it.”
“Just so, Branger. But there are some
who can't perform still kicking up a row in
front of pianos. I refer, .of course, to the
women of our time who were taught as girls
that they had to have some sort of accom-
plishments in order to make a show in
drawing-rooms. They can’t get out of the
old habit; nothing short of death will get
them out of it.”
“But they have a rough time in society,
Dredglin! People simply won’t listen to the
sort of noises we put up with.”
“Yes, but the sort of women I refer to let
themselves loose in the home where there is
no one to stop them. Go for a walk any
night and listen to the criminal noises you
hear issuing from every third villa. Come
round and listen outside my house.”
Branger became suddenly confused, and
tried unavailingly to get out with, “Oh, I
wasn’t referring to Mrs. Dredglin, you
know !”
“/ was !” said her husband angrily. “That
woman wants me to take the place of the
Storpor lunatic and help to keep up the
illusion that she is a singer, worth listening
to. But I won’t do it! I’m not going to
encourage her! D—n it all, she can no
more sing than I can! Why the blazes
can’t she realise that, like a sensible woman,
and stop bothering me, eh? Just imagine
how she would perform if I lost my temper
because she didn’t ask me to make an ass of
myself!”
The train rushed into Branger’s station
and he rose to go. “You might try it on
next time, Dredglin. Good-night.” He
carefully gathered up his parcel of new
gramophone records and stumbled out.
The train resumed its journey, bearing in
its inmost recesses a snail-hunter immersed
in thought.
Dinner had just concluded. Dredglin, a
dangerous gleam in his eye, saw that his
cigar was well alight, and remarked in a
carefully careless way to his stout and un-
suspecting wife, “Now, Sybil,, my dear, sup-
pose we have a little music?”
Obviously it shocked her —but in the same
pleasant way that an unexpected legacy
would have done. “Why, of course, dear.’
she cooed, and, Vising almost in haste, swept
with a happy rustle towards the drawing-
room. Her husband followed to light the
gas and perform other small duties of the
kind. There was a pleasant bustle sorting
out the songs, opening the piano, and ar-
ranging the other small preliminaries of the
uproar. The dinner had been good, the cigar
was better, and he was in a softer mood
than usual. Iler pleasant, pillowy shoulders,
viewed from the back, called up memories’
of the dear, dead days of long ago, when he
had wooed her, and. of his own free will,
incited her to sing. His thoughts were
running easily along pleasant lines when,
after her third song, she wheeled round on
the music-stool and commanded him to find
his own autographed copy of “Queen of the
Earth” and come and sing it to her. Like
a man in a daze, he hunted through the port-
folios until he found the tattered relic of
many misspent nights. He gave it into her
hands, and she placed it reverently on the
piano rack, while he cleared his throat and
prepared to shock her.
The showy introduction was played with
great spirit. Then he took a deep breath
and commenced, and the night shrank back
from the wild, raw sounds that came out of
him. The lady at the piano winced a
little, but loyally kept going in a way that
warmed his heart. As he got used to the
strange sounds, it seemed to him that he
really was not doing so badly; a few bars
further on he was singing earnestly and
feeling a rart of reverence for himself; his
voice was a bit rusty, certainly, but it gave
him a lot of pleasure listening to it, and his
accompanist was keeping on as if she was
satisfied and fully expected him to go right
through. He forgot his original base pur-
pose in his enthusiasm, and boomed away
with all his soul. The applause she gave
him at the end set him hunting feverishly
for other tattered relics. He found them
without much difficulty, and together they
kept it up till a late hour. As the stout
lady sentimentally remarked when the piano
was at rest, “it was quite like old times.”
* * * *
Next evening, Dredglin, the re-discovered
singer, and Branger, the gramophone en-
thusiast, travelled homeward together and
got along very pleasantly until Branger said
in an offhand way, “I’ve got the ‘Bedouin
Love Song’ here —you know, the thing
Storpor used to murder up at your place.”
“He was a rotten singer!” chattered
Dredglin viciously.
“He’s worse than rotten now,” grimly
added the gramophonist.
Dredalin pricked up his ears. “How .do
you know? Have you heard him lately?”
“I heard him as I was passing your house
last night.”
Branger didn’t notice his friend’s convul-
sive start as he got up to leave the car-
riage. “Good-night,” he grunted, and stepped
out, never suspecting that he had lost a
friend.
Dredglin fumed home, burst in the open
door, and flung his stick into the hallstand
with a rattle. Then he went in search of
his wife, found her reading, and, without any
tender preliminaries, inquired angrily, “Am
I. or am I not, a worse singer than that
d —d Storpor?”
Flustered Mrs. Dredglin very naturally
tried to temporise. “Well, tvhat a question
to ask! What makes you?”
“Please answer me !”
The commanding tone shocked and an-
gered the stout lady. She ruffled her fea-
thers threateningly, put down her book and
smiled unpleasantly. “I know you never
liked him, but Mr. Storpor was considered
a very good singer.”
“That is to say that I am not a good
simrer?” ... , . ,
The lady shrugged her shoulders and took
up her book again. “I didn t say anything
of the kind !”
Her husband’s tone was ferocious
retorted, “No, but you inferred as much !
Down came the book with a bang, and a
very wild and flushed lady rose to her feet.
“I don’t know why you are bothering me
with such rude and absurd questions, but
surely you do not put yourself on the same
level as Mr. S torpor? Why. he used to sing
beautifully /”
Her husband said something shocking, and
rushed from the room muttering, “That fat
bounder! If i couldn’t sing better than he
does, I’d cut my throat!”
There was no more “Queen of the Barth
after dinner. But the snail lantern danced
again in the garden, and when crashing
chords and wildly defiant female shouts
troubled the evening air, the seeking shadow
whispered vindictively, “She thinks she s
Melba!”
KODAK.
The Backing of the Winner.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Maori pushed his way to the rails
and critically surveyed the horses
doing their “preliminary.” A faint
smell of man and dry shark accompanied
him. lie breathed like a pit lied bullock,
and his stomach rose in heavy surges that
threatened to break its moorings of red
waistcoat.
“What te name that horse; number
seven?” he wheezed, excitedly. “You tin-
kum belong Maori or Pakeha.” The race
card supplied the information, “Mr. Tai
Eruiti’s br. g. Tetika.”
Hori’s stomach took on a new lease of
life, and bumped forty to the minute when
he had swallowed the information.
“Tetika! Tetika! Belongum te Maori,”
he kept muttering to himself. “Py corry,
ehoa! that te good horse. He get te run
dam’ quick. I tink he te feller for te win,
eh ?”
Most assuredly I did not. As a matter of
fact, I had it from a chap, who knew the
cousin of one of the girls a “jock” was
partly engaged to, that the steeplechase was
a cert, for Goldlight. This Tetika animal
was an outsider with about as much jump
in him as a common or field jumbuck—
which is saying a lot. However, it wasn’t
my game to give the Maori the “office,” and
beyond mentioning that the horse might
have a chance, did nothing to reduce the
dividend that Goldlight would ultimately
pay.
“But eh Tama,” commented Ilori, “look
at te way he run ; more bettern te Pakeha
horse, efery time. I back him for te quid—
yes, Taihoa! you see he win, for I te very
lucky feller,” and the surging piece of
humanity bumped its way through the
crowd around the Tote barriers.
The starter had threatened, sworn, cajoled
and at last succeeded in getting the mounts
to face the starting machine. “Clank!”
went the lever, “swish !” hummed the ropes,
and eight horses loosed themselves to the
crowd’s accompaniment of “They’re off.”
Something cannoned into me, something
soft and flabby, and a whisky-laden voice
breathed : “I gettim on. One poun’ Tetika.
What te color te jock?”
Hori had returned. Ilis bleary red eyes
peered at the blue and silver jacket that
flashed in the sunlight a clear length behind
the rest of the field. He puffed and blew
like the exhaust of a motor. His eyes
bulged, and the red waistcoat heaved in
short, sharp jerks. The Tote ticket was
clenched tightly in his teeth, and looked like
the protruding tongue of a “hei tiki.”
“Py corry ! Look to Tetika. He te feller
plenty strong for te jump,” he breathed;
and as the horse leaped at the hurdle Hori
gave imaginary assistance with his right
arm and shoulder.
“Dammitall! ’oo yer ’ittin’?” demanded a
voice in the rear. “Oh ! it’s you, yer Maori
bug, is it? Done er doller on the bloomin’
’orse, an ’think yer own the ’ole show.
Bli’me, fer a match, I’d put a clotch on yer,
yer shark-eater.”
Hori scowled, felt in the recesses of a
hip pocket and produced a much flattened
packet of cigarettes, which he handed to his
verbal assailant.
“You my good frien’, eh? Never mind
te match, Taihoa! You” He broke
off suddenly as the line of horses became
visible at the far side of the course. “What
I tell you!” he shouted, as the silver and
blue went up a place. “I te very lucky tan-
gata. Kapai Tetika. You show ’em ! My
word, I tink you pay te heavy divvy, moren
ten pound.” All unconsciously he took an-
other chew at his ticket. “Na ! See ! What
you talk now for te Maori horse? He sleep
third, eh? Kapai Tetika,” he yelled.
“Oh, shut up!” called someone from the
crowd. “Wot th’ eller ->’er making all th’
noise about?” But Hori heard him not.
His jaws were working hard, and he made
fearful grimaces at the approaching horses;
“Kamate! Kamate!” he breathed, and
generally w’orked up an impromptu “haka.”
The crowd commenced to appreciate Hori.
At the last jump Tetika was lying third,
and from thereon the Maori lost pounds of
flesh in the rivers of perspiration the excit-
ing finish drew from him.
“Easjf, one hand, you win.” Ilis right
arm used an imaginary stick, and his boots
dug phantom spurs into the atmosphere.
“This time! Haeremai! Haeremai! Hu!
Hu te Tetika ! My cri’ he win. No ! he te
second ! Na ! I te feller for to pick ’em —
Tetika te winna,” he shouted. “Goldlight!
in a canter,” boomed the crowd. “Py corry!
I tell you Tetika. Ka kino te Pakeha
horse. Na ! Yes! Tetika w-i-n-s /” and the
crowd confirmed it with, “The outsider, by
a whisker.”
“Ae,” said the Maori. “What you tink
now, eh? My missus be very happy to me.”
His face was greasy, and the white collar
about his neck hung limp as a rag. He
wagged his head, and grinned like a girl
with a new hatpin.
“I gif you te poun for my luck, eli? What
you tink te divvy be, ehoa ?”
I made a calculation as he felt in bis
pockets; then suddenly his jaw dropped, and
he became limp, very limp.
“I’y Cri!” he groaned, “I te Tangita
kino! I smaller te plurry ticket .”
TE PANA.


WESTINGHOUSE
(MORSE)
CHAIN DRIVES.
it
JS^iM
fif^
M
to: ;
The resistance due to the sliding
friction at the joint, inseparable
from chains of the solid joint pin
type, is eliminated, and the fullest
advantage is taken of the power
developed by the Motor by
utilising the patent
ROCKER JOINT.
98 per cent. Efficiency.
Made in units from \ to 1000 h.p.
Full Particulars from
Brake Co. of
Queensland Agents— Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
New Zealand Agents—Philips & Pike, Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N.S. WALES.
THE STIRLING WATER TUBE BOILER
- N :
1
m
O
O
ilMaeaißlai
ALSO AGENTS FOK—
FOR
High Efficiency
AND
Perfect Safety.
We carry Boilers in Stock for Immediate
Delivery, and Quote for Erection
and Brickwork.
We are Sole Agents, and Contract for
Complete Power Plants with Guar<=
anteed Results.
Nichols Boiler Feed Pumps, Bolinder Woodworking Machinery,
Dew ranee Steam Valves,
Write us for our Complete Catalogue of Engineers’ Supplies,
The Austral Engineering Supply Go. Ltd.,
189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE METZ “22" IS THE CAR
FOR HARD COUNTRY WORK
Its friction-drive makes the mastering of the car a matter of a couple of
hours. Anyone could learn to drive it in half a day. There are no gears,
gear boxes, differentials, live axle, etc. ; nor any of the troubles they bring.
The car is simple, reliable, speedy on the level and hills, comfortable, sub-
stantial in appearance, and economical. Compare its virtues —after a trial
trip—with its price, £lB5, and see what the price would buy you in another
car!
This figure includes hood, adjustable wind screen, side curtains, acetylene
lamps and generator, side lamps, tail light, horn, set of tools, and tyre
pump, with complete outfit.
If you can’t call us up to take you for a trial trip—telephone City 4352
or write for further details to be sent you by letter.
BROWN S HELLICAR LTD.,
375 KENT STREET (Between King
and Market Streets), SYDNEY.
CARS,
WAYERLEY CTARS,
INDIAN MOTOR CYCLES.
CUTS
on
HORSES
FLINT’S medicated oil
Is without doubt the most surprisingly prompt cure for Saddle Calls, Cuts,
Fistula or Broken Knees on horses. It possesses the rare merit of healing
without leaving any blemish, the hair growing in the natural colour. This
distinguishes Flint’s Oil from every other preparation. Price 35., from most
stores throughout Australia, and procurable through any wholesale house
such as Elliott Bros., Sydney and Brisbane, or from
C. B. FLINT, Manufacturing Chemist, ADELAIDE.
THE LONE HAND
for
Australian.
everything
M
M
Economy Tiering Machine.
A machine for stacking all goods to
any height limited by size of machine .
For Stacking Wool and Skins in Woolsheds.
For Stacking Stores for Storekeepers.
For Stacking any goods in a quick, cheap and
effective way.
Parsons Trading Co.,
write for fun particular, to 540 Rent St., Sydney. Equitable Buildings, Melbourne.
HALE and SMILING at MORN
%
m
m
m
"Sf
A
2^
V:
(rzA\
W/
<y
&S
THANKS
TO
wili
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
. . . AT . . .
THE BANKING HOUSE, 228 Pitt Street,
Opposite PALACE THEATRE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LENDS MONEY ON ALL SECURITIES, including Furniture,
FROM 10 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
FRED. McWILLIAM, Manager
Sawmillers, Joiners and Cabinet Makers
You all require Economical, High-speed
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Ask us for Catalogues. Ask us for Advice.
Ask us for References. Ask us for Prices.
You will find that—Our Machines give you satisfaction.
You will find that—We hold the largest stock in Australia.
You will find that—Our expert advice is to your benefit.
You will find that—Our Prices as MANUFACTURERS are reasonable.
WE SAVE YOU MONEY.
Write, call or 'phone ; we are always ready for you to discuss our machines.
THE PREMIER SAWMILL & WOODWORKING MACHINERY MANUFACTURERS,
KIRCHNER & CO.,
32 Market St., Sydney,
■PHONE: CITY—7O9I.
Goodall's Want
Your Wasted Minutes.
We want to turn them into profit—to make them count for something definite
in every day’s work. By installing fast, modern machinery in the place of
the old, tired models, we certainly can make every second serviceable—get
more into it and more out of it.
This TRULY economical way overcomes competition, and puts your shop on
a better-paying basis. Talk this over with our expert —in an interview,
letter, or by telephone—rand let him prove it.
51>EED MACHINE TOOLS.
High-speed Lathes
Shearing Machines
Punching Machines
Power Hammers
Drilling Machines
Radial Drills
Shaping Machines
Milling Machines
Punching Machines
Hack Saws
Blowers
Electric Drills
SMALL
Genuine Morse Drills
“Ideal” Cutting Compound
Slotting Cutters
Taps.
Milling and Gear
Stocks and Dies
Cotton Waste (9
Cutters
grades)
Pulleys.
CASH OR TERMS.
T. M.
Universal
Merchants,
303-5 KENT STREET, SYDNEY


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Fire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermio-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
machT ltd..
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
“IZAL” DISINFECTANT
The only Disinfectant free from Carbolic and CresyliC Acids. The
most powerful germicide known. The only Disinfectant tia is
miscible in Salt, Brackish, Hard or Soft Waters, and any Organic
Fluid. One part of “IZAL” to 400 parts of water makes a perfect
Disinfectant, and destroys all germs and insect life.
Wholesale depot:
T. K. Steanes, 37=43 Pitt St, Sydney.
‘ ’ • 1 1
DICK S PATENT
■ONLLiaa
THE ORIGINAL AND
GENUINE BALATA.
*ir.
TRADI
MARK
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced
Every Pelt GUARANTEED. As a guard against inferior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
importers: James Hardle & Co.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
THE
HE
MACHINES
“TANGYE"
Portable ©il Engine.
•••
Above illustration shows an up-to-date ‘*GANE” Milking Plant,
driven by a “TANCiYE” Oil Engine.
Dalgety’s Machinery Department.
Mliter's
All Branches.
3US -
AGENTS FOR-
“TANGYE”
Oil and Benzine Engines, Suction Gas
Plants, Steam Engines, Vertical
Boilers, Irrigation Plants arid
PUMPS of all descriptions.
“ CLAYTON & SHUTTLEWORTH ”
Portable, Steam and Traction Engines.
“NICHOLSON & MORROW”
Harvesters, Drills, Cultivators, Ploughs.
MILKING
with' Patent Automatic
Milk Releaser.
American Tool Works High Duty Lathes,
Planers and
We have a stock of these machines
opened up in our Showrooms and
invite inspection. These are modern
machines of the best qualit.y, and if
there is anywhere that quality counts
it is in a machine. If you cannot
favor us with a visit, of inspection,
write us for our Accuracy Bulletin.
We are the Agents for, and have in
stock, CONSTANT DRIVE UNI-
VERSAL MILWAUKEE MILLING
MACHINES. Let us show you these,
£<-»■»■» rini-nlAmm 1 T '* -
M
M
Engineers and
Machinery Merchants,
74 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
.
Complete with all Tsois, only £lO
IMPORTANT.
p*o the man who wants to make housework
iess burdensome to his wife —
'pO the man or woman who desires to “ cut
costs ”
"pO the housewife desiring a continually clean
home —
"po you we say, TRY A
“PREMIER”
Electric Suction Cleaner.
The Cleaner with the Rotary Brush.
- |irr|ln -- T , '
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD.,
NEWCASTLE. 307-11 Kent Street, SYDNEY. MELBOURNE.
.
yS ; hit
w
isFen
The Lister holds the sceptre of supremacy
as the king of sheep shearing machines.
All parts guaranteed interchangeable with
the Wolseley.
Lister duplicates admit no rival in superi-
ority and durability.
Sole Agents,- DANGAR GEDYE & C 9, SYDNEY.
T -- 1 --- ■ ■ -
M
SUNSHINE ENGINES
for driving Chaffcutters, Saw Benches, Pumps, Dynamos, Graders, Hoists, Mortar Mills, etc.
H, V. McKA Y, Sunshine, Vic . Adelaide— —Brisbane Sydney- Melbourne.
if
■
M
M
'r
rs
m
All the advantages of the well=
known “C” Table, together
with further improvements, are
embodied in JTodel
D.
99
The Concentrator that has
supplanted all other makes
after exhaustive tests is the
Model
“D.”
W»ite fo*
Pavtlcular* to
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
SOLE MANUFACTURERS,
Equitable Buildings, George St, Sydney.
525 Collins Street. Melbourne.
