

£1 MELLOWED BY AGE.
R. CS-. WATKINS & CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining* and Contractors' Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty ; AUC HONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
N.S.W. MONT DE PIETE D. & I. CO., LTD.,
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite National Amphitheatre. Telephone: No. 225 Central.
And at
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215=217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
m
m
jULS
HOBART.
H —***‘ —
Hadley’s Orient liote!.
COLORED POST-CARDS, bv Harry J.
Weston—“WEEKLY WORRIES.” Set
of six, posted free, Gd. Bulletin News-
paper Co., 214 George Street, Sydney.
PIONEEP
LEATHER BELTING
Guarantrkd
</. C. Ludowici & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
HAMS
BACON
dc
H.B
CHUBB’S
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
32 RECIPES
for preparing a variety of the most
dainty Desserts with
SEEEBEB
J
L
will be forwarded, Post Free to Any
Address, on application to
T. 8., Box 577, C.P.0., Sydney.
PALMER CORD TYRES
are specially constructed to ensure Long Service.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO.,
SYDNEY—MELBOURNE—NEWCASTLE
W3M
Royal
Dutch
COCOA.
SUPERIOR
IN
EVERY WAY.
is imitation hardwood, made for panelling rooms and ceilings. It looks
exactly like hardwood, showing faithfully all the beauty of giain a
finish. It is cheaper than hardwood, and very much easier ' al ' '
We gladly send you samples in Golden Oak, Jenisero, ea ere
and Mahogany.
is the best roofing in the world, bar none. It is waterproof and durable,
good to look at, and yet cheaper than most other roofings. In many of
the great cities of the East, and America, it roofs the best buildings. It’s
good enough for YOUR building. Let us send samples.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT CO., Challis House, SYDNEY.
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
B.L
GOLD LABEL
EXTRA
SPECT Al
WHITE LABEL s .v.o.
PLOUGHING BY MOTOR.
the “BIG 4” THIRTY.
L. •
Sold under an absolute guarantee
to do the work of 30 Horses.
jfiojfat-Virtue J 3
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
352 Kent St. (near King st.), Sydney.
helidon spa
H ELI DON SPA is the only Australian Mineral STARKEYS LTD., Agents ,
Water with Oenuine Osmotic Properties. phuhp st., Sydney, and Redfern
The Bulletin
VoJ. 34.—N0. 1751.]
[Thursday, September 4, 1913.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


SPRING READING All at 3/0 each, Posted 3/9.
Behrens) - 'ST. G.: Pebble. "
Don, Marquis: Danny’s Own Story.
Erskine, Payne * Joyful Heatnerby.
Gilmore Rufus; The Mystery of the Second Shot.
Harrison, H. S.: V.V.’s Eyes.
Ibanez V. B.: The Blood of the Arena.
Lincoln, N. S.: The Trevor Case.
Merwin, Samuel: The Citadel.
Mordaunt, E*.: Lu of the Ranges.
Martyn, W.: All the World To Nothing.
Phayre, I.: Love of the Skies.
Skinner, H. D.: Faith Brandon.
And THE HEART OF THE HILLS, by John Fox, Jun.
GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROPTY, LTD., 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Hudson’s EUMENTHOL Tooth
Powder
SECURES SOUND
WHITE TEETH.
recommend powder as best for the Teeth.
Sold by all Chemists in our patent stopper metal bottles, handy for
travel or home, price 1/6, forwarded free on receipt of stamps.
Hudson’s Eumenthol Chemical Co. l9 York st., Sydney.
Forwarded Free, our New Book containing valuable information
11 regarding the Teeth.
»-aafl/wod am a?n 0.l
CSC
c O
3 *
The Red Page
Obituary—The Jew
There are 12 million Jews in the world
to-day; a century hence there will be
only one, and his name will be Ahaswer.
All but the Wandering Jew will be assimi-
lated, and if the census-takers can catch up
to him he will be assimilated, too. These
conclusions are forced upon us by Dr.
Arthur Ruppin’s interesting work, The Jew#
of To-day (Bell), translated from the Ger-
man. In his introduction, Dr. Joseph
Jacobs, author of Studies in Jewish Stat-
istics, says:—
Dr. Ruppin treats his subject from the
standpoint of a single problem. When the
walls of the ghetto fell some 50 years ago
the admission of the Jews into modern
society on comparatively equal terms raised
the question how far their distinctive char-
acteristics —intellectual, cultural, religious
and the rest —would survive the contact
with modern culture, from which repressive
legislation had hitherto restrained them.
Would they, could they be assimilated into
modern European culture and still remain
Jews in the characteristics they had re-
tained throughout the Christian ages? The
answer Dr. Ruppin gives is a decided nega-
tive.
J*
Can the Jew resist -what has been
called Chinesism, the tendency of modern
times toward a fatal and monotonous simi-
larity and mediocrity invading all sections
of national life, one of the most obvious
signs of which is the standardising of fur-
niture and dress? Thus the Chinese have
dispensed with their queues and taken to
European dress, and everywhere the national
costumes of ; the peasantry are being dis-
carded for a uniform, international dress.
The irony of the position of the Jews is
that just when they have been released from
their ghettos, ‘The faith which kept them
alive, and at the same time isolated them
from their neighbors, has been disrupted by
the assaults of modern rationalism.”
The structure of Judaism (says Ruppin),
once so solid, is crumbling away before our
very eyes. Conversion and intermarriage
are thinning the ranks of Jews in every
direction, and the loss is heavier to bear, in
that the great decrease in the Jewish birth-
rate makes it more and more difficult to fill
up the gaps in the natural way.
Until lately it was thought that, though
this breaking-up process Could be plainly
discerned in Central and Western Europe,
and, of course, in the United States and
Australasia, the six million Jews in Russia
would be untouched, to remain the last
bulwark of Judaism. But the signs are
only too apparent that here, too, the disrup-
tive process has started, and will continue at
a rapidly accelerating rate. The author
distinguishes four classes of Jews: The six
million still, untouched by modern culture,
poor, with a high birth-rate, confined to
Russia, Asia and European Turkey, etc.;
the three million Jews who have emigrated,
and therefore are already discarding their
historic culture; the two million business
men with small families, who have succeeded
as emigrants, and pay. merely a formal ob-
servance to their religion; and the one mil-
lion rich Jews of the large towns, and the
Jews of university education all the world
over, with a low birth-rate, who have com-
pletely broken away from Judaism except in
name. The more completely the Jew pene-
trates the social life of his Christian en-
vironment the less does he remain a Jew.
But the assimilative process is not a new
development.
How great the losses suffered by Judaism
through assimilation have been may
be appreciated by the fact that the
Jews number to-day only 12 million
souls, while in the first century
a’.d. they numbered five million. Even
allowing for the thousands and tens _ of
thousands who succumbed to persecution,
Judaism to-day should be stronger than it
is by millions and tens of millions, were it
not for the continuous secession to
Christianity.
This was the toll taken in times when the
Jew was secluded from the assimilative
forces. Now, exposed on every side to dis-
ruptive agencies, there seems every chance of
a total merging of the Jews into Christen-
dom. The old factors that, prevented assimi-
lation are doomed to extinction. No longer
is the Jew looked down upon as a money-
lender, since we are all money-lenders or
borrowers now; no longer does the Jew
migrate, undet stress of persecution from
countries of a high to those of a lower cul-
ture: persecution now drives the Jew from
unenlightened Eastern Europe to Western
Europe and America, progressive countries
where the danger of assimilation is enor-
mously increased; no longer does the Jew
by his natural prolificness make good the
loss hy assimilation: in many countries his
fertility is less than that of Christians.
So the way is clear to assimilation. It
goes without saying that there can be no
question of the Jews disappearing from oft
the face of the globe in a few decades. A
people numbering some 12 million souls can-
not be wiped out so quickly as all that. It
may be a hundred years and more before the
last Jew is absorbed —the actual time is a
minor detail.,..lt is false optimism to
make, light of this crisis, and say that be-
cause Judaism has endured for 2000 years in
the face of the greatest hardships and dan-
gers, that therefore it is proof against all
happenings. . . .And besides this, do we not
know that in the past the Jewish population
of whole countries did become absorbed?. . . .
We see in the assimilative movement the
greatest danger that has assailed Judaism
since the Dispersion.
A census provided by the author shows
that to-da.v the Jews are more thoroughly
dispersed than ever before in their history.
In former times there was at least one
country in which the majority of the Jews
lived (Babylon, Spain. Poland) ; and only
150 years ago the Jews were almost exclu-
sively concentrated in Poland. Half of
them are thereabouts still, but the other
half are on the wallaby with Ahaswer.
The Jew’s commercial superiority, the
author points out, is merely a relative
superiority. Compared with Indians, Greeks,
Armenians (whom the Jews strikingly re-
semble) and Chinese, the Jews are mere
amateurs in pizness. All these nations be-
long to the oldest civilisations, and in their
hands the mere European has no chance.
It was the Jew’s luck that he had to deal
with the Christian fool.
A further asset in the assimilative pro-
cess comes with the adoption by the Jew
of the language of the country. In the
course of his history the Jew has had many
changes of language —Hebrew, Aramaic,
Greek, Arabic, Spanish and French, and the
modern “Spaniolisch” and “Yiddish.” And
the end of Yiddish as a national language
is in sight.
One may say that the Jewish religion is on
firm ground only where Yiddish is the mother
tongue. With the abandonment of Yiddish
the way is open for the triumphant march
of capitalism, for the adoption of universal
culture, for the depreciation of Jewish reli-
gion. and finally for intermarriage and con-
version.
So modern school education, of which the
Jew, with his worship of learning, is so
eagerly taking advantage, is fatal to Jewish
tradition.
Thq spread of modern school education
among the Jews is the chief cause of the
ferment in the spiritual life of the Jews,
and the principal factor in the process of
denationalism which is going on within
Judaism to-day.
The Russian Government allows the uni-
versity Jew certain privileges of domicile,
since it recognises that a Jew w r ho has re-
ceived a modem education is, in the ordinary
sense of the term, no longer a Jew. And
the decreasing importance of religion with
the Jews holds out no hope of a renaissance
of Jewish faith. “The Jewish religion to-
day is thoroughly disorganised.” The “en-
Jew has not the blind, unques-
tioning faith of the orthodox Jew, the faith
that has glued the race together for 2000
years.
But its fate is sealed ; the conditions which
kept orthodoxy alive so long—the social iso-
lation of the Jews, and their divorce from
secular education —are disappearing with the
advance of capitalism, and the structure of
orthodox Judaism, deprived of their sup-
port, will fall to the ground.
The last bulwark against assimilation,
anti-Semitism, is, shown to be not only an
insufficient check to deliquescence, but even a
factor in accelerating Jewish apostasy. The
gain which anti-Semitism brings to Judaism
is ephemeral—the loss is lasting. The Jew
must disappear.
J*
Having thus, by means of convincing
statistics, shown the doom of the Hebrew,
the author seeks for suggested cures of this
wasting disease. He finds in Zionism the
only hope of the survival of the Jew ; and
gives a most interesting description of the
conditions of the Jews at present in Pales-
tine. His conclusion is that: —
The aim of Zionism —the formation of a
coherent Jewish population in Palestine,
with agriculture as its economic basis and
Hebrew as the national language—is difficult,
indeed, but possible.
Dr. Ruppin has exhaustively the
difficulties—the chief of which is the reluct-
ance of the Jew to become a cocky. One
questions, for instance, how many Jews,
many of whom are now good Australians,
would return to Palestine as farmers or
orchardists, and what success the Australian
Jew would make of his back-blocks selection
in Palestine? But the author sees nq other
way out of the dilemma.
The difficulties must not deter us. The
re-building of a nation requires the utmost
effort, and the bringing into play of all the
latent strength of the Jewish people. For
Zionism is not a mere national or chauvin-
istic caprice, but the last desperate stand of
the Jews against annihilation. Should the
denationalising process which, in Western
Europe, has already crushed all independent
Jewish culture spread to Eastern Europe—
and there are signs that it is beginning to
do so—all is over with the Jews and with
Jewish culture. Once lost, a national cul-
ture can never be re-created, and without a
culture of its own the total absorption of the
Jews by the other nations is only a question
of time.
Well, the Jew has had a long life ; he has
given the world some great men and the
champion long-distance sundowner in his-
tory ; and on tiie whole he has hau an ad-
venturous and interesting career; and the
human race will say many good things of
him, and tell many good stories of him. as
it follows the hearse containing the last Jew
to the last Jewish grave. And by none will
his death be regretted more than by the
cartoonist and the writer of gags. For the
great achievement of the Jew is that he has
provided more jokes for the world than any
other nation in history. But one could
have wished for a more dramatic end for a
race that in its beginnings had many a
dramatic moment. He thrived on persecu-
tion ; he grew strong in his ghetto gaol.
Then civilisation opened his prison gates
and forbore to spit upon his gaberdine ; the
Christian asked him to dine —and was really
asking him 'to die. The Jew has been killed
by kindness.
Flagships Three
Really, C. E. W. Bean, author of Flag-
ships Three (zUston Rivers, 55.) ought to
be appointed Patriotic Writer-in-Ordinary
to the Commonwealth. He is the foremost
exponent of the new Australian school of
patriotism: he believes in Australia, and
he has reason to believe in her; and though
so many of us are like him in this respect,
none has so far succeeded in marrying that
fervent conviction to words that stir and
thrill. There are in this small company
other writers, doing the finest and most
needed service to the Commonwealth —one
might mention names like .T. H. M. Abbott
and Arthur W. Jose (whenever his em-
ployer. London Times, lets him) ; and over-
seas there is Richard Jebb, with his enthu-
siastic appreciation—it no longer needs a
defence —of our growing nationalism. The
existence of a band of writers like this is
one of the most stimulating signs of the
new spirit stirring the backwaters of this
continent.
One need not be told that the author of
On the Wool Track and The Dreadnought
of the Darling can write. Flagships Three
is an altogether fascinating book. The first
flagship was the ancestor of all the flagships
of our race.
“She lies as on that night when some of
the first ancestors of our race, coughing the
North Sea fog through their sagging red
moustaches and heavy beards, crept down
past the ghostly white forelands of their
newest colony, and beached her safely for
the night, under cover of the Channel
mists, in some unknown cove along the
English shore. It is more than a thousand
years since the .old flagship, with her stately
dead on board, turned homeward from her
cruise, and felt, for the last time, the kiss
of the wavelets in the home-fiord. . . The
centuries have dealt wondrous gently with
her, and there, in Christiabia a few months
since, some of us —Australians —saw the
first flagship of our race.”
It is a brilliant description that Bean
gives of this old boat, preserved merely be-
cause some forgotten Viking chief was
buried in the shore, beneath a great
mound of earth. “We were expecting to
find something rough hewn, awkwardly
shaped, bulky, clumsily fitted with a few
rough expedients. What we saw was a
long, lightly-built galley, as graceful as a
swan, shaped to lines as delicate as those
of the P. and O. liner at Circular Quay.”
Picking up the book, the present critic
said: “Bean ought to be able to tell us
something worth reading about H.M.A.S.
Australia.” But the critic glanced at the
first paragraph about the first flagship....
and had to read the whole chapter. Still
eager to get to the Australia, he came to
the Powerful —the old scrap-heap British
flagship, in which as an Australian the
present writer had no interest. .. .and Bean
made him read every one of those absorb-
ing chapters about the dear old Powerful
-—chapters more fascinating than anything
Kipling ever wrote about ships.
And the Australia, when Bean let him
come to her, was worth reading about.
Bean is, among other things, a brilliant
journalist, and his telling of the story of
the making of a dreadnought is a piece of
fascinating description. His account of the
launching of a dreadnought is a thrilling
bit of work, lightened with fine art by a hint
of delightful comedy. And, withouPbeing di-
dactic or dull, he manages to tell his readers
all that they could ever want to know about
our first flagship, and the happenings that
brought her into being. His tribute to
Senator Pearce comes well now that this
fine administrator is temporarily lost to our
Defence Department. And the appreciation,
by those (fhalified to judge, of the Austra-
lian seaman, is worth remembering.
A book for Every Australian—a book that
will make many a good Australian —that
will rouse the old sea-spirit that belongs to
all islanders —even though their island is a
continent.
♦
The latest batch of the “Home University
Library” shilling books include: The Writ-
ing of English, Ancient Art and Ritual,
Plant Life, and Germany of To-Day.
The Modern Novel
The worth-while novelist of to-day l n
got tired of telling a romantic story: most
of the romantic stories have been told - am
most of the heroes are the same hero. ’ I'm.
modern novelist is beginning to see that
his public is getting surfeited with the mere
hero: it wants something bigger and some-
thing more interesting than a man.
man like Wells is dispensing with the way
of a man with a maid and substituting f O ,
romance a bigger subject, such as Marriage
Even that born storyteller, Arnold Bennett
has, for his latest novel, chosen for his hero
no mere man, but a large thing like a
theatre; and Margarete Bbhme, the German
author of The Department More (Apple-
ton, per Sydney Kook Club) has a Berlin
Anthony Hoydern’s for her heroine. Each
author has something more interesting to
write about than girl: each has set out to
tell us something about a modern develop-
ment than interests us. And each imparts
the information in an altogether fascinatine
way.
The Department Store is a faithful ac-
count of the growth of one of those
vast retail emporiums which are becoming
more and more important in the life of a
city. We see the growth of these huge busi-
nesses in Australian capitals. In Berlin the
process is apparently further advanced
than here, though npt so far advanced as
in the United States. Margarete Bbhme
traces the fortune of one of these vast con-
cerns from its foundation to.its impregnable
position as a city in itself. She shows how
the great shop affects its proprietors, its
customers, its employees; she exposes its
defects and eulogises its merits and suggests
its enormous ideal possibilities for good.
And she has a detailed knowledge of its
inner working, and in her vision of its:
future she applies the same knowledge to ;
embody the marvellous department store of
the future. Interwoven with this are
the life-stories of a score of individuals
whose development or whose tragedies am
dependent upon the shop. A novel of ab-,
sorbing interest, solidly Constructed, frank
in its speech, and full of suggestions for the
directors of our own department stores.
Bennett stresses more the human interest
in The Regent (Methuen, per Dymock, Syd-
ney), and allows his genial humor full play
in this story of the building and the running
of a London theatre. “Let’s write a story
about a theatre,” one can imagine Bennett
saying. “I know lots about theatres: my
connection with theatres has vastly inter-
ested me. If me, why not my readers?
But. of course, my public expect a ‘Five
Towns’ interest. Well, let’s make one of
my characters build a London theatre. Now,
who from my ‘Five Towns’ could run a
London theatre?” A quick glance at the
titles of his bookshelf full of Arnold Ben-
netts, and the question is answered. “They
liked The Card. Well, Edward Henry
Maehin will build my London theatre.
Rather arousing to see how he’ll manage it,
won’t it be? But ‘The Card’ is married—
happily married. Can’t risk making him
unpopular with a love-affair with his lead-
ing lady. We 11.... there won’t be a love-
interest^—at least, only a hint of one. Trust
‘The Card’ to get out of that _ all right.
He’s a man from the ‘Five Towns,’ you see.”
Hence a popular novel, amusing, informa-
tive, adventurous, realistic. The shrewd
provincial placed in the London theatrical
world, with pictures of typical managers,
actresses, solicitors, suffragettes and pro-
ducers. The scene where Edward Henry
settles Elsie April, who was beginning to
interest Edward Henry, and who had never
asked him if he was, by chance, _ married, is
admirably done. He brought his wife and
family to London, and in the park by
chance he met Elsie. He was wheeling the
new pram, because his daughter was yelling,
and accompanied by his family:—
“Flow do you do. Miss April?” said
Edward Henry, loudly. “I was hoping to
meet you. This my wife. Nellie, this is
Miss April.” Nellie bowed stiffly in her
black silk. And it has to be said that Elsie
April, in all her young and radiant splendor
and woman-of-the-worldiness was
stiff. “And there are my two boys. And
this is my little girl—in the pram.”
Maisie screamed, and pushed an expen-
sive doll out of the perambulator. Edward
Henry saved it by its boot as it fell. „
“And this is her doll. And this is nurse. (
he finished. “Fine, breezy morning, isn t it •
In due course the processions moved on.
“Well, that’s done!” Edward Henry
muttered to himself. And sighed.
It was time we had a counterblast to the
pretty little books of Golden Thoughts tiom
Everybody; and in his “little book ot 1 -
suits,” Sydney J. Endacott, of
gives us a delightful collection
Brass Thoughts— The Littleness of Crw-
ness (fid.), “a small collection of things th
the great have said about the great. - -
of them are delightfully libellous. ,
editor has confined himself for the P re - ,
to literary blokes; but he threatens to aeai
similarly with historical heroes. R® t
implored to continue, and we may sugg ■
that a book containing all the insults
tralian politicians have hurled at -Wffl ‘ ,
politicians would make an equally dele
volume.


w a
Be Wise! Pop your Orders in the Post and Reap the Full Benefit of
Anthony Horderns’ Famous Low Prices
The A.H.&S. Special Briar Pipe
The A. H. and S. Special Briar, at 3/9 (Posted, 3/11) is a Pipe that will suit the
most exacting. It is a Magnificent, Cool-smoking Pipe, made from Picked Briar, with Vulcanite
Mouthpiece, Sterling Silver Band, and Push Stem. There are ten Popular Shapes, as illustrated.
5 <
X
24
25
22 25
26
27
2 J
20
29
A. H. and S. Special,
3/9
Post Free,
3/11
Write for Price List of Tobacco and Cigars,
Post Free.
The A. H. &S. Briar Pipe.
The A. H. ami S. Briar at 2/6 (Posted, 2/8) is the equal of Pipes often sold at double
the price. It is First Quality Briar, Vulcanite Mouthpiece, Sterling Silver Band, Push Stem,
shapes as illustrated.
Selected Briar,
Silver Band,
2/6
Post
Free.
•* /J
7 9
Push Stems,
Any Shape,
2/6
Post Free.
2/8
Order by Number.
ARDATH
Cabinet Cigars.
ARDATH CABINET CIGARS are justly
popular, for the reason that they are beautifully mild
and aromatic, filled with a delicious blend of selected
tobacco, uniform in quality, and contain only a
minimum of nicotine.
ARDATH CABINET CIGARS are dis-
tinctly in the first rank of medium-p. , id cigars.
They are made under perfect conditions, and combine
every point of excellence demanded by the cigar
connoisseur.
ARDATH CABINET CIGARS, No.
444 and No. 660, can onlv be obtained at the
NEW PALACE EMPORIUM, and are cigars
that will be smoked with appreciation by the most
critical. We recommend these cigars with confidence.
ARDATH CIGARS are packed in artistically-
prepared cabinets, fitted with a spring catch, and
make an ideal present for any man. Our unique
system of spot cash trading enables us to sell these
high-grade cigars at prices which offer absolutely the
best value in the land.
N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2 extra.
i
I
WtsWl'i
;:Ms;r.
mm.
mmmMmmnmsmi
Y :k/?imwm.
wm
mm
u.^
li i !
G'J CXj^a/! r*p
iiilii ii ! :
The King Cigars are put up by the makers of the renowned Ardath Cabinet Cigars, to
meet the demands of the connoisseur.
The King is the highest-grade Cigar made at the Ardath Works, of the finest quality
selected Havana leaf.
The King is packed in .a well-made cedar cabinet to hold 50 or 100 cigars, and consti-
tutes a gift that will be appreciated by Cigar Smokers, offering value that is without
parallel. C
The King is a heavy-weght Cigar of fine flavor and delicate aroma, is made in an
English Factory under perfect conditions, and carries our unqualified recommendation.
Price 35/-, Box of 50 ; Box of 100, 67/6.
Postage: N.S.W. —50, 1/-; 100, 1/3. Other States—so, 1/8;
100, 2/2.
The Gem Junior
Safety Razor.
THE GEM JUNIOR solves the Shaving
Problem for the man with a tender skin or
Strong beard. It is unequalled for easy and
luxurious shaving.
There is no risk if you buy a GEM JUNIOR
Safety Razor; it makes every mail an expert
barber, and is the apex of Razor perfection.
Easy, velvet-like strokes — never a pull, never
a scratch, are features of the GEM JUNIOR,
which assures a clean, safe shave.
THE GEM JUNIOR is always ready for
use, with a fresh blade for every day of the week.
It is so simple that a novice can use it.
GEM JUNIOR BLADES are as thin as
an edge-holding piece of steel can possibly be rolled.
They can be sharpened time and time again, be-
cause they’re tempered to receive an edge and
to hold it when thev get it.
THE GEM JUNIOR FRAME has a new
har feature, which carefully spreads the skin, so
that the stubble is forced out far enough to give
as close a shave as can be secured by going over
the face twice with any other razor.
THE GEM JUNIOR SAFETY RAZOR
is made and finished in the best style, of the
finest materials, and the Highest Skilled labor.
It comprises Nickel Plated Frame, Extra Handle for
Stropping Blades, and SEVEN Keen-edged Blades.
Complete in neat Leatherette Case.
Anthony Horderns’ Price,
POST FREE, 5/3.
5/-
EXTRA BLADES, 2 1 per packet of 7, post free
OLD SAFETY BLADES SHARPENED.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ TRIUMPH PIPES.
The Triumph Briar i* the finest pipe made, and guaranteed to be of the bear/ materials. It is London-made, Sterling Silver-mounted, with Hand-cut Vulcanite Push Mouthpiece,
and will not crack or burn. Shapes as illustrated.
4/6 TRIUMPH EXTRA BRIAR PIPE
Silver-mounted
46
Rj post,
4 8
44
K,
47
40
London made,
4/6
By post,
Loudon-made, Silver-mounted, Hand-cut Vulcanite Stems.
5/6 TRIUMPH EXTRA BRIAR PIPE
Finest Briars.
Shapes—
Vos. 30 to 39,
516
By
post
5 8
35
43
37
38
33
30
Hand-Cut Vulcanite Stems.
Shapes—
Nos. 30 to 39,
516
>iy
post,
58
Shapes Nos.
34 anrl 35
have Silver
Push Stem.
Write for Price List of Tobacco and Cigars, Post Free on liequest.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace E-mpormm,
BricKneld Hill*
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
=3b H
Waterman’s
(Ideal)
FburitainPen
Lost in London, lost again in Quebec, and
after 18 years’ use as efficient as when quite
new. Read this striking testimonial: —
“ You will be interested to know that the Waterman’s
Ideal Fountain Pen purchased from you in 1894 has been
in constant, unimpaired service ever since. To-day it
writes as well as on the first day of use, 18 years ago. It
does not leak, scratch, or fail to mark on the first contact
with paper, as is often the case with other makes.
“ I could write an interesting story of how I lost it, once
in the busy streets of London, twice in Quebec snow-
storms, once again in a huge wood-pile of a saw-mill,
always to find it again ; but I must desist. I am happy
to give you this unsolicited testimonial to the continued
value of your fountain pen.
“ Yours sincerely, (Rev.) John H. Wright.”
In 4 types —Regular and Self-Filling, 12/6 and upwards ;
Safety and Pump-Filling, 15/- and upwards.
Of Stationers and jewellers everywhere.
L. & C. Hardtmuth, Ltd., Koh-i-noor House, London, England.
(Australia —350, George St., Sydney.)
STEVENS
“VISIBLE LOADING”
RIFLE NO. 70
The most accurate .22 calibre Repeat-
ing Rifle in the World.
Handles, 15 .22 short and 12 .22 long rifle
cartridges.
Unexcelled for small game and target prac-
tice.
Apply for latest catalogs and detailed infor-
mation to
ARTHUR H. HILL,
1
1
m
Tin i
mu
ffl
mu
I!
Australian Representative for J. Stevens Arms and Tool Company,
Q.P.O. Box 86, Adelaide, South Australia. [2
gumini
[l]
Sporting Tradition and
The Modern Arm
CLEAN, trim lines mark the thoroughbred in
any field of sport* And if you judge an arm
as you do a horse or dog, you must surely
use a Remington*
There is a suggestion of speed—of all
around shooting ability about a Remington rifle
or shotgun that has made it the first choice of
thousands of sportsmen the world over. A
thorough try out has ever confirmed that choice*
In refining the heavier lines of the old breech-
loading action, the protruding hammer is done
away with, the breech completely closed. These
are safety features which alone might well govern
the shooter’s choice.
We will be glad to send a booklet that explains
simply these and other technical points of gun
construction. Just send your name and post-ofiice
address on a postcard to-day.
Remington Arms - Union Metallic Cartridge Co.
Australian Agent, D. D. Bryant, P. O. Box 686, Melbourne
New York London
Celebrated
Cascade
Ale
IN BULK
and
BOTTLED.
sr
it*
C-#
i f i
mmm
i
'Lsh
Ox*<
2SBsSESGKf* # Pf
A -&Ss
CALL
FOR IT
on ALL
Occasions.
Head Office:
156 Collins St., Hobart
AGENTS:
Melbourne:
Taylor, Ferguson &
Co., 127 King St.
Sydney:
D’Arcy & Co.
Brisbane:
Burns, Philp & Co
Xitd.
Maryborough:
Corser & Co.
Rockhampton:
Walter Reid & Co.
Townsville:
Burns, Philp & Co..
Etd.
Cairns:
Burns, Philp & Co..
Ltd.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.,
Works: Birmingham, England,
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
Irawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Senes.
Ask yonr Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
/VNTISEPTIC THROAT
These wonderfully efficacious Throat Pastilles are made to
a formula of the Liverpool Throat Hospital, and act like a
charm in keeping the voice and throat in perfect condition
for prolonged vocal exercise.
Used by the leading Singers throughout the world. The
celebrated Madame Tetrazzini writes: —“I thank you for the
boxes of Evans’ Pastilles sent me, which I find excellent and
efficacious.”
Sole Manufacturers — CHEMISTS.
EVANS SONS LESCHER 8 WEBB LTD., LONDON.
Ask for “EVANS’ ” Pastilles, apd see you get them.
'M
'Mil
L 1
V
More Wonderful Cures
CLEMENTS
TONIC
The Great
Standard
Nerve
Med icine.
A letter from Albert Street, Lithgow,
September 20, 1911, the recent scene ot
so much industrial strife.
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
“I wish to give you a testimonial,
as I have benefited much by taking
Clements Tonic. I was recommended
by a friend to try it; but I had tried
so many things that I did not have
any faith in it, but he persuaded me,
and told me if I did not get any
benefit from it he would pay the cost,
as it had cured him of the same thing, Indigestion. I went to
two doctors over it, but only got temporary relief.
“1 am writing this to benefit anyone who is suffering from Indi-
gestion, as I consider it is a great blessing, and I ONLY TOOK TWO
BOTTLES, two years ago, and have had no sign of it returning since,
and I CAN EAT ANYTHING AND ENJOY THE BEST OF
HEALTH. A good MANY PEOPLE IN LITHGOW AND RYDAL
KNOW HOW I SUFFERED, and now I feel like a new man.
“You can use this for any purpose you like, as I consider Clements
Tonic a great blessing to anyone suffering as I did.
(Signed) IGNATIUS McQUIRK.”
♦
For Nervous Breakdown, Loss of Sleep, Poor Appetite, Neuralgic
Headaches, Low Spirits, Constipation or Indigestion, try it.
ALL CHEMISTS and STORES SELL IT.


Benger’s Food
is neither a pre-
digested food nor a
mixture of dried
milk and chemical
substances.
Ull
It is a natural
differing from all others
in combining the princi-
ples of natural digestion.
These enable Benger’s
Food to be prepared
1 to suit individual needs ;
to rest enfeebled di-
gestions, and nurse
them back to healthful
activity by regulated
stages.
With no other food
is this possible, and as
Benger’s Food never over-stimulates
as do many chemical foods, no re-
action follows
its use.
*
Food
For Children,
INVALIDS and the AGED.
Bender's Booklet—A little work of authority on
the special feeding of Children, Invalids, and the
Aged, will he sent post free on application to:
BENGER'S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, Eng;
, Branch Offices—
New York (u.s.a) 92, William st. Sydney (n.s.wi t- 7 put st.
Canadian Az'n’s-. National Drue <fc Chemical rVi t*a
ti, 8t Gabriel Street, Montreal, and Branches throughout Canada
IB9A
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
SYDNEY : John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
MELBOURNE : Briscoe & Co., Ltd., Lit. Collins St.
BRISBANE : Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH : McLean Bros. & Rigg.
Aus. Rep.—T. Nicholls, c/o Sydney Agents.
HEALS ANY WOUND OR SORE
If you have an obstinate sore, a wound that won’t
knit, a bad leg or a skin eruption of any kind,
no matter of how long standing, you can cure it
quickly and surely with
WILKINSON’S
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT.
Price 1/6, posted 1/9. J. WILKINSON, Chemist
1] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane.
Fashionable
Favorite-Perfume
V
Wrmi'n »
F.WOLFF&SOHN
F. Wolff &Sohn
PERFUMERS
l KARLSRUHE
BERLIN • LONDON
Obtainable
from
all
the loading stores.
BONHINCrON’S WILL ANSWER YES=
Sold Everywhere.
1/6 (EL 2/6.
to the question—is it the best ? Yes it is undoubtedly the
best Cough Remedy that skill and purest ingredients can
produce. This preparation has been curing Coughs
and Colds for upwards of 45 years, and although numer-
ous imitations have appeared from time to time none
have stood against “Bonnington’s 1 ' of 40 years fame.
Bonninctons
Irish Moss.
The ideal family medicine is equally
beneficial for Adults or Children.
Mothers can give it to the little ones
with every confidence as it is entirely
free from harmful narcotics.
Do not take imitations—just ask for “BONNINGTON’S” and
see that you get it.
«5
irishj®?
PJRUNKENNESS Cured.
cpi?' n CUre t i lC most v i° ,ent drunkard—secretly—at home. GOLDEN
has T n ° ° d °r or taste ' and can b e taken by the most delicate person
fnr anHnatw t^i erad ‘ cates all craving for stimulants, creating a last-
•*. «.• k l n2r antl Pathy to alcohol in a few weeks. Many cases are cured in a few davs
with this treatment. . . Send 2d. stamp for FREE. SAMPLE and full particulars.
4, market street, Sydney, n.s.w.
1419
m
m
I
FLAT BOSOMED WOMEN •'
A thin woman is not necessarily plain, let alone ugly. In fact, many
thin women possess very pretty, “sweet faces,” but this is usually ad-
mitted with the qualifying phrase, “but, poor thing, she is so dreadfully
Uim. A woman’s chief charm is a well-rounded figure and a full
bosKim. With these, thin arms and hollow cheeks are a rarity.
thousands of women suffering the ravages of ill-health have sought
and accepted this advice, and to-day are models of womanlv develop-
ment and splendid living examples of perfect health.
ne< ; d stay thin and undeveloped. Dr. Falliere’s FLESH-
. ■*’ ls harmless, perfect flesh-builder. It increases the vitality and
improves the general health. Some cases report a gain in weight of over
five pounds a week. Guarantee given in every case accepted.
\\ e want you to know just what “FLESH-FOOD” is, and will gladlv
give you a free sample. Send 2d. stamp, and let us forward a free trial
sample and our instructive book. “FLESH-FOOD” is put up in tablet
form, and can be secretly taken if desired. All correspondence is con-
fidential and private, and all our literature is sent closelv covered and
free from observation. Write or call at once. It is absolutely free.
FALLIERE TLESH-FpOP CO., 1103 Ash Street, Sydney.
LET ME RID YOU
OF YOUR KILLING
VARICOSE VEINS.
If you suffer from Varicose Veins or Ulcers, or both, I believe that I can com-
pletely cure you. I have treated hundreds of terrible cases with the utmost suc-
cess, and T know that but very few cases are reallv incurable when properly treated
without operations, and by my method, which has been tested and successfully
proved in hundreds of instances.
Very few doctors tell you they can cure this trouble. They prefer to ignore
it. Doctors could not cure me. I cured myself. I then cured my friends and
then made hundreds of new friends by curing people who had suffered in some
cases for a quarter of a century. Hence I believe I can cure you
MR a VFPQpy , ni * f y .° u w°uW like to feel your legs well, strong and supple again, send for
MK. (x. VECisEY. full details of this wonderfully efficacious home treatment.
ADVICE FREE
FREE BOOK
DIAGNOSIS FREE
i 1 wa 2? . you to lea™ all about my method. Send 2d. stamp for Free Book, giving full narti-
culars. Written Diagnosis or Consultation FREE. Call if convenient. (1424)
THE VECSEY VARIX-ARIUM, 3103 ASH STREET, SYDNEY.
s
i wj ,JLr
m
No Motorist can afford to overlook
the exceptional merits of
BARNET GLASS
MOTOR TYRES
Produced bg the Founders of
Australasia's Rubber Industry.
BARNET GLASS ROBBER C° K?
231 Clarence Si., Sydney
*sh.M
FREE. TO
SMOKERS!
Mr. R. J. Hinton, Jerrara Creek, Marulan, N.S.W.,
writes: —
“it gives me great pleasure to inform you that I
have been completely cured of the Tobacco Habit by
your wonderful Tobacco Specific, after using tobacco
heavily for seven years, sometimes Boz. to lOoz. in
the week. It is now 12 months since 1 last used
tobacco, and, although I am continually in the com-
pany of smokers, I do not have the least desire to
smoke, therefore I consider the cure permanent.
“My general health is now perfect; all my former
complaints, such as irregular Heart Action, Dizzi-
ness, Nervousness and Stomach Trouble, which I
have every reason to believe were caused through the
use of tobacco, have entirely disappeared, and are
onlv remembered as a hideous nightmare. I eat
and sleep well, and feel fit to face the world again.
It will give me great pleasure to recommend your
remedy to others.”
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a FREE
SAMPLE of Tobacco Specific, also Booklet, Testi-
monials, etc.
H- SINCLAIR & CO.,
DEPT. Q,
107 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
[i.
“Coaguline,” “Klinx,” “Tenasitine,”
Cements for breakages, manufacturing purposes, etc.
LAMENESS IN HORSES
LAMINOL will
cure the worst
cases of Sprung
Tendon, Curb, Bog
Spavin, Sprung
Hock, Thorough-
pin, or any other
kind of Joint or
Bursal enlargement.
No need for the ap-
plication of a Red-
Hot Iron, when the
trouble can be
cured much quick-
er and more
humanely with LAMINOL
LAMINOL can be applied quite easily, and
further, you can work the horse all the time.
LAMINOL cures by absorption.
PRICE — IO/6 «er la rue tin. posted
anywhere 9d. extra.
INFLUENZA AND STRANGLES IN HORSES.
SALADINE will quickly remedy this
trouble. Posted anywhere, 7/6.
SOLE AGENTS:
H. WILLIAMS & CO.,
Colling St., Melbourne.
Hie Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centurle*.
SINGLETON S EYE OINTMENT.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GRFEN 210 Lambeth Koad, London, Eng.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sic Transit.
After a high tide on an eastern shore
ww+® d Wl u h DODe beside uie on the sand,
tVih the S , e ? with dul1 ’ unceasing roar
Told on its age-old story to the land.
Even and white, as though hand-smoothed,
the beach
shelLs ° er With Weeds and broken
Wh£“ d tbe , thwarted ocean’s utmost reach
Wh tinels a " birdS St °° d like watchiQ g sen-
Singing, because the lavish beauty filled
The qoo Wl t h song I journeyed on and on;
Wiffc (what shield of sultan ever thrilled
ith equal glory?) azure-breasted shone.
Ever and ever on that golden morn
1 V S WaS S^a^ed ’ c° u l d n °t choose but
Tu l ! lea / kener uP O . n whose ears was borne
ime strange, insistent message of the sea.
Others have heard it—yea, ten thousand men
Who coasted, noon or night, the sea’s ex-
panse ;
To them, as unto me, beyond their ken
he meaning of that pregnant utterance.
Lovers and loved ones paced the beach last
night—
The red moon rising late, saw arms en-
twined,
Before them lay the long sands silver white,
l rai l lQ g footprints stretched away
behind.
Rising, the strong waves marched a mightv
band ;
The lovers, lingering, left the moonlit shore ;
And, like their footprints on the gleaming
sand,
Their roseate hours, perchance, shall be no
more.
Doer and Dreamer, here a truth abides:—
*°r ye (though great be with sword or
pen)
Time marshalls his obliterating tides—
Wherefore —sic transit gloria.... and what
then?
N - s - w -
RODERIC QUINN.
Kissing Time.
We glimmer down the twilight way,
The white moon follows after,
The little leaves that dance and play
Are full of elfin laughter;
The tall trees shiver in the wind,
The bamboos creak and chatter,
The old dull town is left behind,
And nothing seems to matter.
The spring airs whisper down the world
lts gladness thrice refining,
Your hair about my cheek is curled,
Your black eyes keep on shining;
Your waist is moulded to my arm,
Your lips on mine are tasting
Like wine some old god’s smile made warm
When joy his youth was wasting.
The wide, sweet night is all our own.
And old grey care’s a feather
As light to fly as moonbeams blown
Down gusts of laughing weather;
The noisy day is fast asleep,
All careless that it misses
The happy hour the breezes keep
For all the choicest kisses.
N.S.W. '
D. M. W.
Repression.
I lay rose petals on your baby, sleeping;
Your rose that fast was fading in my keep-
ing—
That they might live for me a little longer,
And tell if love or loyalty were stronger.
“She loves me, loves me not” —the old trick
lingers.
Ah, they are fragrant from your dainty
fingers.
Stay! How this prattle all my message
misses !
See, they are crushed and blighted with my
kisses !
Kisses like those I pressed upon the roses
Of your warm lips where the young god
reposes,
Playing with passion like a heart-whole
maiden,
Pleased with his poppies, all with poison
laden.
I have sipped poison, and the wild blood
surges.
Like the lashed billows that the tempest
urges.
I have drunk poison, yet I idly prattle,
Like a hired soldier, dicing before battle,
Singing a tavern song amid the clamor
Of drum and cannon, mattock, sword and
hammer.
Still, ’tis my battle eve, your rose my
banner;
And, though I sing, ’tis in no idler’s manner.
My gage and challenge lie in every petal,
Calling as sternly as the clang of metal.
Oh, to be up in fight, in truth, and boldly,
Weapon in hand, not calculating coldly !
Oh, that love’s battle must begin in flying,
Tricking, concealing, feigning, aye/ and
lying!
Oh, for the ways of old, the rush and rap-
ture
Of sword well swung, life staked upon your
capture!
Must I cry “Come!” and leave to you the
doing?
This has the savor of a coward’s wooing!
Is there no other way? My whole soul
sickens,
Striving to stifle every throb that quickens.
Ah, Love, what should be may not, and
what should not
Were easy, would we do all that we would
not.
So must those petals be my parting blessing,
A fragrant memory, past all caressing,
Which to recall, in the unsullied zest
Of years that may be ours, Heart’s-life!
were best.
spain.
WAIF.


A CHOICE BEDROOfI SUITE.
A Serviceable
and Tasteful
Suite is the
“CHALLENGER.”
A Splendid Example of
Perfect Workmanship
and Durable Material.
li
C ft C°L*
m
*
r
m
C * C° L*
P;
Er--v^=^Sr:
ft®
In Three Ticces, made of thoroughly seasoned wood, highly polished in walnut
or rosewood stain, with oxidized fittings.
1 Wardrobe, 3ft. Gin., with large bevelled mirror, all hanging space.
Combination Chest, 3 large drawers, 1 jewel drawer, and shelf.
Marble-top Washstand, large cupboard, and towel rail each side.
- = Price £l2.
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
EXPERT HOUSE FURNISHERS,
Central Square, George Street, Sydney.
DINNEFORDsI
Magnesia ]
I
1
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequent
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“ DINNCrORD S ”
on everv bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
ONTHEHOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred of “Hop’s” best drawings. Full
Bulletin size. Price, 21s.
WUNDERLICH CEILINGS.
&
ss§
■V*r.
:S2
sSS
311
SE
3)V>
fe
><•
- ■ ■
31
55S
s*2^
sc=s
*,r.
v
as
i^’t
al
Always Distinctive, and the Most Economical
of the HOME BUILDER’S Expenses.
ECONOMICAL to buy, easily fixed and cheaply freighted (to
cover a given area the freight charges are one-third that on wood).
NO REPAIRS ever needed —easy to clean with a damp cloth.
Every consideration —Attractiveness, Service, Sanitation, Fire
Retardent, Economy —urge their use in the Home, Shop or
Public Buildings.
£/'uk>
The Wunderlich
Materials bear
this TRADE MARK.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, BRISBANE,
HOBART, LAUNCESTON, and WELLINGTON, N.Z.
“WATERSHED”
Red Rubber Garden Hose
“THE HOSE OF QUALITY."
MADE IN BOfs. COILS.
3-ply Jin. lin.
9d. 1/- 1/5 per ft
Sold by all leading Storekeepers, or direct
from the Manufacturers,
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD,,
Sydney, Melbourne & Adelaide.
Other Models from 7/6 to 40/-
Catalogues Sent Free.
MELBA
the ACCORDEON with
The Mellow Tone.
Is just perfection for song accompaniments,
Dance and Picnic Music. The organ like
tone of these instruments is attained by the
use of Bell Metal Reeds which are hand
fitted and tuned.
3 Popular Models.
THE ORGAN-TONED MELBA
8 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 23/6, postfree.
THE DANCE KING.
4 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 30/-, post free.
THE PICNIC MODEL.
S sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 15/-, postfree.
ALLAN & CO., 276 Collins St., Mclb,
The Australian
Magazine.
THE LONE HAND
The National
Honthly, 6d.
i '
h
cw*
ate
t*v
YYi
t
m
Co
“COMMER” MOTOR LORRIES
INCREASE YOUR BUSINESS RADIUS.
Any good motor-lorry—such as the “Cummer”- by its speed and capacity uiu s
definitely increase your effective business radius. The splendid features identified win
the “Cummer" Motor-lurry are specially adapted to Australian needs and conditions-
They withstand the severe tests of years of hard usage, and remain stauuch and reliau p
servants under all conditions.
Capacity: 1 Ton to 7 Tons.
SPECIFICATION: Engine, four cylinders, cast in pairs; Bosch high-tension
magneto; gear-driven, also coil and accumulator; chain-drive, with chain cases; auto
inatic lubrication; efficient radiator; three, four and five speeds forward and one reverei .
direct drive on top gears always in mesh with dog clutch drive; foot-brake on dp'
between gear-box and differential, operated by pedal on foot-board ; side hand br aK *
operated on drum of rear wheels; internal expanding, positively taken on and on 1
larger models a special soring buffer drive is fitted between differential and gear-box, t
latter being of the “fool-proof” type) ; complete set of tools: ball-bearings througUo
Any Type of Body Fitted.
Investigate the “Cummer” fully—it will repay inspection. We will arrange aD '
trial or demonstration on request. Full particulars posted free.
DALGETY ®. CO. LTD.
Motor Garage: 136=138 Phillip Street, Sydney.
MELBOURNE: Bourke Street. BRISBANE: George Street.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Vor. 34.—N0. 1751.
THURSDAY. SEPTEMBER 4. 1913.
Price 6d.
THE PARTY SYSTEM IN BUSINESS.
THE BOSS (addressing the whole staff): “The office boy has become quite irresponsible, so I must sack the whole lot
of you. Sorry to do it, but the rules of the game are fixed that way.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the AVhite Man.”
Printed and published by William Mac-
Leod, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets,
Mosnian. for The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214
George Street, Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: City 2389.
City 2390.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum .. .. ..£160
Half-yearly .. .. .. 0 13 6
Quarterly .. .. . . .. 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty -
Six Shillings Sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager,
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some
care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the form
of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short
Talcs or Sketches (those dealing with Australian sub-
jects. and not exceeding two columns in length, or,
say, S000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the addiess is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps foi return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin "'dt sires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of
MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion cnly. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
(Sordon and Goteh, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa.— The Central News Agency, Cape-
town. Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
B.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., ijl Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C..J Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific News Co,, Market Street,
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A. ; Childs
Neivs Agency, corner Fifth and, D Streets, San Diego.
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; IF. E. Lenehan. 585
29th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago. U.S.A.
Egypt. —/ gnaeet Horn, J’ort Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. --Brewer and Co., Redder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. —IF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria. West Australia, Queensland. Tas-
mania and New Zealand; and on account of Messrs.
Atkinson and Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide —at
i/6 per doz. nett.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6gin.
x l\in.. and gelatine transparencies will be for-
warded on application. Larger metal plates can be
supplied if desired.
Postage Rates.
Single copies The Bulletin (registered as a Neivs-
paper):—Throughout the Commonwealth. New Zea-
land, Fiji. British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, 10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route. IGoz., Id. Only one newspaper should be en-
closed in each packet — otherwise: 8oz., Id., 8Ioz.
to 10oz., 2\d.; lOoz. to 12oz., Sd.; elsewhere, )oz.,
Id., and id. each additioanl 2oz.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 1913.
THE SIX WONDERFUL PUBLIC
DEBTS.
Australia has been staggered, in modera-
tion, by the news that its great Cook and
Bottlewasher Ministry is preparing a
measure by which the Commonwealth is to
take over the State debts. This is a great
idea —a most commendable idea —and the
matter should have been attended to long
ago. If Cook carries it out on a satisfactory
basis The Bulletin will hail him (to his
great surprise and to its great surprise also)
as the greatest financier that Australia has
produced. And he will deserve the applause,
and he will merit an increase of salary.
Even a reasonable life pension, when he
drops out of office, wouldn’t be wholly amiss.
It was set forth in the original Australian
Constitution that the Federal authority had
power to take over the State debts as they
existed at the foundation of the Common-
wealth. That proposition died still-born.
No one was ready on the spur of the moment
with a scheme for effecting the transfer. In
fact, until the first Federal Ministry was
formed, and George Turner, in his unpre-
tentious way, had seized a cane chair and a
battered desk and commenced financing, there
was no one to even look at the matter. And
by the time Parliament had passed the formal
Acts which were necessary to establish its
authority, and had got over the first vote of
censure, and survived the first, second and
third stonewalling episodes, the chance was
gone. Old loans had been repaid, and new
loans had replaced them, and by reason of
overdrafts, casual advances and sundries,
also increases of interest and reductions of
interest, it was just as easy to find out the
exact State liabilities on the day when the
Commonwealth began as to find one particu-
lar grain of dust in a haystack. Later, by
an amendment of the Constitution, the Aus-
tralian Parliament acquired a general power
to take over State debts. But the problem
of putting these debts on an equitable basis
was so complicated that again nothing hap-
pened. The idea of just taking over the
debts as they stood, without any basis,
equitable or otherwise, was too terrifying to
be seriously considered by timid politicians.
* v * * *
If it is proposed to satisfy all the States,
to be absolutely honest and accurate, and to
do no penn’orth of wrong or possible wrong
to anybody, there are these matters to be
considered :
(1) The debts of the States vary greatly according
to population. No one can ever present an up-to-date
statement of the amount per head which the six
States owe, for it takes time to work out the figures,
and while they are being worked out the kaleido-
scopic debt has shifted, and the kaleidoscopic popu-
lation has shifted, and there is a change (not a large
one, yet an annoying one) in the aspect of affairs.
But, according to the calculations of Statistician
Knibbs, the liabilities at June 30, 1912, varied from
£44 16s. lid. per inhabitant in Victoria to
£B6 18s. Bd. per inhabitant in Westralia.
(2) On the other hand, Westralia is the most
thinly peopled of the States, while Victoria is the
most thickly peopled. The former has vast possi-
bilities, on paper at least, of acquiring new popula-
tion, \vhich means new Federal taxpayers, to carry
its debt, which the latter hasn’t. Westralia’s empty
spaces are, or ought to be, an asset to set against
its debt. Unfortunately no one can tell exactly how
the asset will pan out. *
(3) Also, some States supply much more revenue
per head to the Australian Treasury than others. If
the debts are taken over bodiU, and if it chances
that the State with the big debt is also the State
with the big income, that fact is some excuse for the
State with the big debt.
(4) At the same time no one can tell how long the
State which supplies the specially big income will
continue doing so. When Kalgoorlie dies, for in-
stance, Westralia may become a very poor contribu-
tor while remaining a very big debtor.
(5) Some States cost the Australian Government
much more per head than others. This circumstance
ought to be regarded, along with the varying sizes
of the contributions, as a set-off against the varying
sizes of the debts.
(6) Unfortunately no one can tell how long the
circumstance will last, or how soon some new cir-
cumstance may arise.
(7) The debts carry varying rates of interest. At
June 30, 1912, the State that paid the lowest in-
terest rate was Westralia (.£3 9s. 3d. per cent, per
annum). The State that paid the highest rate was
Queensland (£3 13s. 6d.'per cent, per annum). But
N.S.W. (quoted at £3 10s. 7d. per cent, per an-
num) has since been borrowing at £4 7s. 6d., and
has spoiled its average somewhat. Now £1,000,000
of debt at 3 per cent, may be really a smaller
liability than £900,000 at 4 per cent.
(8) Again, the loans run for varying terms. A
£1,000,000 loan at 4 per cent, with 20 years cur-
rency may really be cheaper than a £1,000,000 loan
at per cent, with 40 years currency. The former
may, 20 years hence, strike a low market and be re-
newed for half a century at 3 per cent. The latter
may, 40 years hence, strike a high market, and be
renewed with difficulty at 6 per cent. No one can
say that either thing will be, or that it won’t be.
Some absurd insurrectionist in Mesopotamia may
start a shindy that will make all the difference.
(9) Most' loans have no sinking funds attached.
A few—notably those of Westralia —have. Wes-
tralia, though it represents only about one-fifteenth
of the population of the Commonwealth, owns more
sinking fund than all the other States put together.
This affects the value of its liabilities to a wholly
indefinite extent. Also, it affects the problem of
taking over the public debt. If the Commonwealth
turns the State debts into a uniform liability it can t
repudiate the sinking fund arrangement which Wes-
tralia has made with its creditors. The only way
to secure uniformity is to make a similar arrange-
ment with all the other creditors.
When a Government.which makes a speci-
ality of State Rights •* and which makes a
strong point of refusing to be uncivil, even
in the smallest degree, to State Governments,
proposes to take over the public debts, it
runs up against all these propositions and
impossibilities. If it can Settle them or com-
promise them, to the satisfaction of every-
body, all will be well, save for the fact that,
if it leaves the States their six separate
borrowing powers, a new trouble will begin
to grow the day after the old trouble is got
rid of. If it can’t compromise with the State
Governments, then the best thing it can do is
to join the Unification and Reconstruction
movement. The central idea of this move-
ment is that the people should be
persuaded and educated into passing an
amendment of the Constitution whereby
everything—railways, railway construction,
public lands, public debts, borrowing powers,
revenues, expenditures, shortages, dog-tax,
mad-houses, everything, in fact, from Kos-
ciusko to a beetle —shall be handed over to
the Federal authority, and lumped together,
without any calculation or stock-taking
whatever. That would finish the debt-con-
solidation question in one act, and every-
body would be satisfied, or everybody would
be angry, or part of the people would be
pleased and part would be raving mad. Any-
how, the thing would be done. Then the
Federal authority could subdivide the coun-
try into a number of small States, according
to* the local geographical features, and sup-
ply each with a cheap Lieutenant-Governor
and a cheap Legislature of one House, and
furnish them, for so long as was considered
advisable, with such powers and such endow-
ments as the Federal authority thought fit.
But their railway muddles and their borrow-
ing muddles would remain Federal property,
so the State debt question, having been once
settled, could never start again. There
might be a discrepancy in the accounts to
begin with, but there would only be that
original discrepancy. Once it was got over
the trouble would be finished. Another de-
vice would be for the Commonwealth to take
over the existing debts and leave the States
their borrowing powers, but to also
take over all new State debts as fast as they
ai’e incurred, and to secure authority to levy
special and senarate taxes on each State to
provide a sinking fund against its special
and separate debt, or to stop its sinking
fund contribution out of the Federal subsidy
of 255. per head. If the State which
borrowed £10,000.000 was struck with a new
Federal tax of £200,000 a year for sinking
fund purposes, and the one that borrowed
£50,000,000 was struck with a new Federal
tax of £1,000,000 a year for the same pur-
pose, the fact that borrowing was a poor
game would probably dawn on the
£10.000.000 State, while it would hit the
£50.000.000 State like an avalanche striking
a fowl on the neck.
* ■» * *
Another device —a milder and slower one
certainly—would be for the Commonwealth
to establish a sinking fund out ■of its own
means for the abolition of the State debts
without putting any new restriction upon
the State loan madness. It could greatly
enlarge its note issue by compelling all banks
to hold, say, 40 per cent, of their cash re-
serves in Federal paper, and to pay cheques
up to a certain amount in Federal 10s. notes
on demand. With the money thus acquired
it could buy up a great mass of the cheapest
State Government bonds on the market.
These would be good security for the Fed-
eral paper money, and with the interest
received on them the Commonwealth could
buy up more State Government _ bonds,
and continue the process until it had
become the States’ sole creditor. In
fact, it could start, at no public cost, a long,
stern chase after the State Cohen —though
not quite so long as the stern chase which
Christianity maintains after the Devil. If
the sinking fund wasn’t robbed by the way
it would Get There at last, no matter how
fast Cohen might be. And when the Com-
monwealth, by this process of making much
money out of nothing, had become the
States’ sole creditor and its own sole cred-
itor, it would be in a position to
burn all Australia’s lOU’s in a pile as big
as a mallee hen’s nest, and abolish the in-
terest bill, and start afresh. This it would
do amid a shriek of recrimination from the
State —which would probably be every State
—which believed that it had contributed
more than its share to the sinking fund.
The device would be a reasonably fair one,
though rather gradual; yet means of accele-
ration might perhaps be found. Every State
would contribute to the original sinking fund
according to its wealth, and every State
would pay its own interest bill —no more and
no less—till its < liability, whether large or
small, was extinguished.
# # * *
The Prime Minister who proposes to take
over the State debts should enjoy himself if
he is the right kind of man. He ought to
be a financial genius and a lover of fighting
for its own sake. Lie should have no more
respect for conventional State Rights than
a wart-hog, and no more respect for the con-
ventional bumptiousness of State Premiers
than if these persons were dead. That sort
of Prime Minister might start Australia on
a new path of financial honesty. Certainly
JosEpn Cook has shown no signs so far of
being the person required, but he may have
been concealing himself under a bushel, so to
speak. If he likes to start now and show
himself the right man for the business he
will make history.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Budget that Wasn’t Presented.
It is difficult to imagine anything more com-
prehensive in the way of effrontery than the
financial statement —if it can be called one
—issued by the Holman Government of
N.S.W. The traditional horse-liar, and fish-
liar, and snake-liar, not to mention the news-
paper-circulation-liar, have done large things
in the way of assurance, but even in that
sort of company the Holman Ministry keeps
its end up very well. It has had the biggest
borrowing boom in Australian history, de-
spite its assurance that it would reduce bor-
rowing, and spend money only on works tiiat
would pay full interest ana something over.
Also it has enjoyed the biggest revenue in
N.S.W. history, it has accomplished, in one
year, a deficit of anytning between
iI,OOO,QUO and £1,500,000. It doesn't
apologise, or even pretend to apologise, for
its shortage and its muddle, nor does it pro-
vide means by which the shortage may be
met and the muddle redeemed. It doesn’t
even present, or promise that it will present,
a formal Budget or Financial Statement,
though it is still in office, and professes to
think that it has done well enough to justify
it in assuming that the State will retain it
in office. It simply demands something over
£8,000,000 to carry it over the next six
months, which means, as things are going,
that it will get to the end of 1913 with
another deficit of anything between £500,000
and £150,000. It doesn’t say in detail how
the is to be spent, but asks for a free
hand; just as Charles I. did when he ran
public affairs without a Parliament. When
the elections are over, and the new Assembly
meets, the Holman Government, if it is still
in charge, threatens to levy certain new taxes
in order to make ends meet, but the new
taxes appear hopelessly inadequate. And at
the best they can hardly arrive until the
beginning of 1914, seeing that the Holman
Ministry doesn’t want to incur public dis-
like by piling on fresh imposts before the
elections. By the beginning of 1914 there
will be very little time to collect more
money, seeing that the financial year ends
on June 30, and a number of Bills must be
passed before anything can be done. And
meanwhile the deficit will have piled up like
a pyramid. Incidentally, one of the proposed
methods for making ends meet is the aboli-
tion of the sinking fund. The N.S.W. sink-
ing fund has always been a fraud. It was
never allowed to accumulate at compound
interest as a real sinking fund should do,
so its name was a misrepresentation. It
never amounted to more than a fraction of
the Westralian sinking fund, though
Westralia has a very small debt compared to
that of N.S.W. The McGoWen Government,
which is now the Holman Government,
promised to put it on a sounder and more
solvent footing. But instead it actually cut
the payments to the fund below the amounts
paid by the previous Liberal Ministries. Now
it strikes the bedrock of financial casualness
by proposing to stop all payments to the
fund. Apparently the troubles of the Hol-
man-McGowen Ministry are these three:
(1) it has no political conscience; (2) it
doesn’t know that it lacks a political con-
science; (3) it doesn’t know that there is
such a thing as a political conscience.
Fair Rents.
That curious thread of mental discrepancy
which runs through so many of the sen.
of the present N.S.W. State Govern ...
appears in its Fair Rents Bill. If an „ e£ J p ‘ s
going landlord charges 30s. a week or J
for a house, his tenant is to be P erm ’ j
apply to the Fair Rents Court and demano
a reduction. If a selfish landlord charg
325. 6d. or 355. or 40s. for an exactly sun
ilar house, the tenant cannot appeal t
Court, and can get no redress. Becau ■
wrongs are greater his assistance 1 ' _ ’
When the landlord who charges a moaera
amount is dragged into the Court ( t
the one who charges an immoderate am
isn’t dragged), the rent is to be fixed
more than 10 per cent, gross, uut .
10 per cent, or less are to come the c ■
rent collection, repairs, maintenance, _
and taxes, insurance, depreciation, ,
through non-paying tenants, losses t 0 s
lack of tenants, and sundries. l fles t 0
likely to reduce the return in some .
about 5 per cent., or not so much a
Old and New Bagdad.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In Old Bagdad when things were good
Two millions in that city stood
(Or walked; or ran; or else were borne
In palanquins that mocked the morn-
Or lay, evolving gorgeous plans,
On silken cushions and divans,
Or strolled within their gardens green-
Or in their harems lolled serene;
Or traded near; or trafficked far;
Or crowded to the crammed bazaar;
Or braced themselves to face their jobs
With honey-cakes and hot kabobs; ’
Or thronged the baths and sherbet-kiosks-
Or knelt to Allah in the mosques) 1 ’
The mighty Tigris flowed beside
The city of the Caliph’s pride—
The City of Al-Mansur brave,
That Timur to the jackals gave!—
And argosies of galleys bore
The wealth of Asia to her door
And Bagdad’s merchant-traders grew
More affluent than any Jew.
Old Bagdad had a mighty Boom—
’Twas hard to find mere squatting-room;
And even those who camped in tents
Were forced to pay enormous rents;
Kabobs rose to a sinful price,
And so did honey-calces, and rice,
And oil and butter, fruit and spice!
But, oh! it was a stirring time;
The sight of Bagdad was sublime,
With towers and spires and minarets,
And marble fountains flinging jets
Of crystal water here and there,
And life and motion everywhere!
The Bagdadites were bright and gay,
They knew the Boom had come to stay;
And “water-fronts” to Tigris sold
At very near their weight in gold!
And Western Suburbs lots brought in
To syndicates a heap of “tin,”
Despite the fact that they were known
To be composed of barren stone—
The city was so full of cash
That even sweepers cut a dash,
And bath-attendants bought more wives,
And lived the liveliest of lives;
While Commerce stuffed the City full
Of carpets, jewels, silks and wool,
Damascus blades and Delhi wares,
And filigrees and like affairs,
And every quaint and precious thing
That keel or caravan could bring!
And feast and laughter, wine and song
Rolled Bagdad’s starry nights along—
A gay and splendid boom they had,
Long, long ago, in Old Bagdad !
Alas ! one night the City woke
To see itself go up in smoke!....
The merry Bagdadites, it seems, .
Among their multifarious schemes.
Had had some business with a band
Of land-agents at Samarkand,
And also much annoyed a man
Who lived in Eastern Turkestan.
This gentleman put on a sword,
And, followed by a hungry horde
Of semi-devils, headed south
And west, towards the Tigris’s mouth,
Where Bagdad lay in fatted sloth ;
En route more joined him —nothing loth
To visit Bagdad, rich, immense;
(Of course, at that gay town’s expense!)
The land-agents of Samarkand
Considerately bore a hand;
They said that Bagdad owed them rent,
For which repeatedly they’d sent,
And never got—a tribute owed
For keeping open some old road
To Bagdad’s commerce; and the man
Who hailed from Eastern Turkestan
Remarked that he was in good health;
His trouble was a lack of wealth.
But he had read in some small pub
About the Ravdad Millions Club,
And how that fatted City teemed
With wealth like that of which he dreamed.
So they joined forces —rank on rank
They marched their hordes to Tigris’s bank;
The Boom just crumpled there and then
Before those brown faced, bow-legged men
Whose horrid energy knocked spots
Off all the Western Suburb lots —
The “water-fronts” just slumped to nil
When Samarkand began to kill
The merry Baedadites by dozens.
And ripped their sisters, aunts and cousins..
Ah, me! the Slump was very had
Long, long ago, in Old Bagdad!
In New Bagdad—built round a bay— (
Things look all right; the Boom must stay.
For how on earth can any harm
Assail a place of so much charm?
The bare idea !... Bah !... Pooh-pooh!. ■ ■
What could a mod n rn Ttmur do?
The New Bagdad dreads no fierce band
Of land-agents from Samarkand!....
Oh, this is quite a different age!....
No longer men in wars engage,
Or. rarely—and, then, but for health—
Whv, who would covet Bagdad’s wealth.
And what a beastlv. caddish joke
To send New Bagdad up in smoke!
No decent horde of semi-devils
Would think of wild and bloodv revels
’Mid scenes of lust and bestial rage.
Or starve our Caliph in a cage!
C!o! Put that proverb on the shelf
That History repeats itself!
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.


Extraordinary Announcement to Agents.
Christmas Edition of
The Bulletin, 1913.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE that the
CHRISTMAS NUMBER of “THE
BULLETIN” will be an EXTRA
and SPECIAL ISSUE.
Date of Publication: December 13, 1913.
This SPECIAL NUMBER will con-
tain high-class Stories, Verse and other
Literary Contributions from foremost
Australasian writers.
The Illustrations will be supplied by
the popular Bulletin artists, and
others in the front rank of the artisiie
world.
The Ordinary Issue of THE BULLETIN
will be published on the usual date.
ORDERS FOR EXTRA COPIES
should reach us at once to ensure
supply.
Depreciation alone runs to a good deal if a
house becomes obsolete and is condemned
when it is 40 years old, and some houses
become obsolete in 20 years. Loss bv non-
paying tenants is a very large item in
bad times—and in all times at a
place like Broken Hill, where strikes are
numerous, and all rent-paying ceases so long
as the strike lasts, and not even 100 bailiffs
could collect arrears. Now at the present
moment there are fairly solid bank invest-
ments which yield anything up to 8 per
cent., and while it is possible to sit on a
reasonable wad of scrip, and get 8 per cent.,
the habit of building houses for the poor at
5 per cent, is likely to be killed rather dead
All these disadvantages, as already hinted
at, apply to the landlord who charges 30s
or less for his cottage. The one who
charges 31s. or more can drag 20 per cent,
out of his investment with impunity. The
extra income is the reward of extortion and
the premium put on rack-renting. It is a
complicated situation, but the mental pro-
cesses of Holman and McGowen are some-
times past comprehension. That Govern-
ment made a great attempt, a year or two
ago. to fix the income-tax of the rich
absentee landlord on a lower scale than that
of the hardworking Australian manufactur-
ing co. which paid the wages fixed by the
Arbitration Court, employed Australian
workmen, and as a rule divided a very
moderate dividend among a multitude of
Australian investors. The amazing scheme
failed, but the reason why it was attempted
is a mystery to this day. Apparently it be-
longed to the realm of Chinese logic or Chow
metaohysics. And the Fair Rents Bill is
to some extent in the same category.
The “Unworkable” Machine.
Fusion journalism has suddenly changed its
views of Cook s tiyspeck majority. A month
ago Melbourne Argus, for instance, professed
to rejoice in tfle forthcoming salvation of the
country by means of Liberal measures, both
progressive and remedial. The franchise
whereof poor, bedridden citizens had been
robbed by Labor was to be restored to those
moaning sufferers. All the misdeeds of Labor
were to be corrected, and ail the dreams of
Liberalism to be realised —by Cook’s major-
ity of one. It was even suggested that its
sipallness gave it a wondrous power for good,
which an unwieldy majority of, say, three
would have lacked. Everything in the out-
look was lovely in Tory eyes, a month ago.
But now the Argus admits: “It is generally
recognised that the Parliament, as a whole,
as returned at the recent elections, is an
unworkable machine.” All the same, this
Parliament, which expresses the thought of
the country fairly accurately, should be as
workable as any other Parliament. What it
needs is an Elected Ministry to work it. The
present Party Ministry cannot work it. A
dissolution and re-election of both Houses
would result in another Ministry, of one
party or other, equally incapable of working
the machine. Seeing, then, that the precious
machine seems likely to endure for ages, the
obvious cure for its existing uselessness is a
new system of constructing Ministries. What
Cook cannot do because Fisher mustn’t let
him, or Fisher couldn’t do because Cook
wouldn’t let him and John Forrest and
Irvine would block the way, could be accom-
plished by a composite Government, neither
the creature of a caucus nor the slave of
anti-Labor traditions. The old conservative
arguments against elective Ministries cannot
withstand the logical arguments in favor of
them, therefore conservatism avoids the ques-
tion. But the growing demand for a work-
ing Government in a workable Parliament
cannot be eternally ignored. Fatheaded ad-
mirers of the Constitution seem to labor —or
puff and wheeze—under the delusion that the
party system of government is an imperish-
able law of the land. They have an idea that
nothing short of an earthquake, or a referen-
dum at least, could shift the distinction
between the “ins” and the “outs,” or obliter-
ate the difference between Government
benches and Opposition ditto. Yet if Cook
were to take in his resignation as a Party
Premier, and advise the G.-G. to desire the
whole House of Reps., sitting in open caucus,
to elect a new Ministry as it elects a new
Speaker, the ancient foolishness of party
politics would go reeling to its grave. If a
majority in the House refused to accept the
new order of things, and a dissolution came
to pass, what would be the result? The con-
tents would be re-elected whilst the non-
contents were mostly getting defeated by up-
to-date candidates. It is only necessary for
the Non-Party Government system to be put
before the voters for it to be approved by the
Voice of the Country. Then the Parliament
machine would work. Every measure that
can be put before Parliament must have a
majority either for or against it, even if the
majority is only the Speaker’s vote. There-
fore every question can be settled on its
merits provided its merits are not; mixed up
with the necessity for keening" C<)ok or
Fisher in office, or putting Cook ! or Fisher
out of office. Let Cook or Fisher,
or any other person that Parliament ap-
proves. be fixed in office for three years ; let
his colleagues be also nailed down for three
years; and let them just go on administer-
ing the departments for three years whether
their measures are accepted or rejected. Then
nobody would waste time over votes of cen-
sure. because they would make no difference.
Also, nobody need vote against his conscience
to keep his own boss politician in or to push
the otl|er party’s boss politician out, for
until the three years were up they wouldn’t
go out. and then they would go out automati-
cally. Tbore would be no such spectacle as
that of N.S.W. Labor member McOtrß de-
nouncing the deranged scheme bv which an
English firm is to supervise N S.W. railway
construction at a huge fee. and vet refusing
to vote against it lest he should burst the
blessed old narty. In fact, the Legislature
might, at last, have a chance to go straight.
And it would never become “unworkable”
because of an election, any more than the
staff of the A.M.P. Society or the Bank of
N.S.W. is unworkable after the annual meet-
ing.
The Coal Export Madness.
The thirsty and shameless individual, who
begs with tears in his eyes for the price of
a pint, has only one rival as a pathetic tale
pitcher, i.e., the rich man. The man who
hasn’t got it does not realise how much grief
wealth brings, until some apparently
comfortable capitalist arises before . a
Wages Board and sorrowfully details
Sll,ii r 0U u b r' And even then he can
nartuy believe it, so dreadful does
Vi# carrative sound. John Brown
',i i a n (b A’ Brown, the coal magnates,
who dwell and boom at Newcastle, N.S.W )
gave evidence, last week, before the Miners'
> ages Board, and if the Chairman’s heart
wasn t touched it wasn’t the fault of John
iiROWN. Ihe unprofitableness of the for-
eign trade was one of his chief themes.
According to John, the whole of the foreign
trade had been carried on at a loss, or some-
th very like a loss, during the last three
jears. let he appeared to grieve in advance
over the opening of the Panama Canal,
\yhich work, he considered, would deprive
the local coal barons of some of this alleged
unprofitable trade, and give it to the United
states, India and China. At long range, it
looks rather like a man lamenting the loss
or a dangerous tiger with an immense appe-
tite. But perhaps John is fond of his tiger.
Meanwhile, and quite apart from J. Brown,
these points are worth remembering: (1)
more coal is being manufactured in
rsature s laboratory, and the substance has
become such an essential of civilisation that
it may almost be said that the nation which
digs out and sells all its coal first will perish
flrst. .(2) Australia, so far as the evidence
goes, is not at all well supplied with coal
s . sl f e ’ an( l it is certainly not overloaded
with timber, and it doesn’t show up well in
the matter of oil. (3) Therefore, unless it
vvants to die young, for the temporary en-
richment of fleeting Browns and people
ot that sort, it should shut down absolutely
on the coal export madness. Let other coun-
tnes do the coal export business, and sell
their birthright for a splash of pottage. If
Australia gave itself a decent tariff, and
doubled its local manufactures (which, by
the way, it could do without using any extra
coal, if it only had sense enough to avail
itself of the water-power of the Snowy, Vic-
toria, Roper, Barron and other rivers), it
would make so much money that it could
throw its coal export business overboard and
not miss it. It could eyen throw Brown
overboard, and not miss him, except as an
interesting citizen. A country which tries
to get rich by selling its coal abroad is in
the same category as a besieged city which
tries to turn an honest coope l ’ by selling
its battlements, bit by bit, to the enemy Un-
building material.
Unification and Reconstruction.
The growing disgust which is becoming evi-
dent on all . sides, with both Labor and
Liberal parties, in Federal and State poli-
tics alike, promises to give the Young Aus-
tralia movement its required opportunity.
This paper hag but one carp to level at the
Young Australia party, and that has refer-
ence to its name. An atmosphere of imper-
manence surrounds such a title. In the
natural course of events the Young Aus-
tralia party must become the Middle-aged
Australia party, which would be banal; and
ultimately the Elderly Australia party,
which would be dreadful and ludicrous. Why
not, quite frankly, the Unification and Re-
construction party? A few years ago the
word Unification frightened certain Aus-
tralians as much as the word Socialism
used to frighten certain Britishers a couple
of decades back. The menace of Unification
is now as ruined a myth, almost, as the
menace of Sosh. Factors which had much
influence in the matter were the Referenda
campaigns and the events which led up to
them. When Australia federated the elec-
tors imagined that tlm National Parliament
would have power, under the Constitution, to
pass effective Trade Marks and New Protec-
tion legislation, and so forth. They dis-
covered presently that Parliament had no
power of the sort. So drastically has the
High Court limited the powers of Parlia-
ment, by its interpretations of the Constitu-
tion, that, under the present Federal sys-
tem, it is extremely doubtful if as much as
half those bgdly-needed measures which, 10
years ago, lawyers, and laymen alike assumed
would shortly be in full working order, will
ever be effectuated. As regards the control
of Trusts, as regards (Vupulsory Insurance
legislation, and in a nundred other urgent
directions that might be cited readily, the
Commonwealth Parliament is impotent. The
general body of electors has only lately come
to realise the anomaly ; the Referenda cam-
paigns having served to educate it in the
matter. The Liberal howl of warning that
the recently-proppsed amendment in the
Trade and Commerce clause would amount
to Unification (with Reconstruction to fol-
low) had the unexpected effect of suggesting
to a vast number of electors that there
might be worse things than Unification, any-
how. This is the ground in which the seed
sown by the Young Australia party will be
bound to germinate. The party has no in-
tention of playing a thinking role merely.
In fact, it intends to butt violently into
both Federal and State politics at the
earliest opportunity. The annual confer-
ence is to be held in Melbourne on the first
Wednesday in November —the. day after
the great local Horse Feast—and on
that occasion the full obejective will
be expounded. Incidentally, a “Handbook
of Nations l Reconstruction” will be issued,
in which volume the need for Unification,
followed by a new division of the country,
and a new distribution of authority, will be
argued, and a brand-new Constitution sub-
mitted to the consideration of- this leg-roped
Commonwealth. ,One of the first planks of
the new movement is “Abolition of Party
Government. Ministers to be elected by
the Legislature to administer National De-
partments.” Andtltfr is “The Abolition of
the power to borrow money, at present exer-
cised indiscriminately bv State and local
Governments.” And a third is the Initia-
tive and Referendum. The new partv is.. of
course, absolutely sound on Australian
defence. Altogether, the programme is one
that the more progressive electors should
adhere to with enthusiasm. The worst luck
The Bulletin wishes the new movement
is that Australia may be energetically push-
ing it along for years after both Liberal and
Labor parties have been cimsigngd to the
clammy tomb. 2
The Federal Muck-rakers.
There is an unusually virulent epidemic of
mud-slingine raging in the House of •Repre-
sentatives just now. A certain amount of
muck-raking is. of course, inseparable from
the Party Government system. But the
present outbreak is over the odds The Cook
Ministry, partly because ft feels that it
must make some sort of a demonstration,
and partly because a section of it is built
that way naturally, is working overtime at
tfle unsavory job of trying to prove that its
predecessors conducted themselves, while in
office, a collection of rogues and vaga-
bonds. The most astonishing accusations
have been hurled round casually—charges
which, were they made outside the shelter
of Parliamentary privilege, would provide
material for enough criminal libel actions to
keep the lawyers happy for years. No one
seems to wholly escape. The suburban
mansion of one Laborite, the terrace of
houses of another, the Gore llili residence
of W. M. Hughes, the new hat of King
O Malley —each and all of these things pro-
voke scandalised nods and becks and whis-
pered hints of well-concealed corruption.
Liberalism never assumes that a thrifty man
who suddenly found himself in the posses-
sion of an income several times greater
than any which he had previously enjoyed,
might well achieve these assets and more
out of his salary, without robbing the com-
munity of a farthing. It does not, while
circulating its vague libels, add the infor-
mation that some of the suspects are fairly
competent professional and business men, in
addition to being politicians. The Party
game is not played that way. No point is
too low or dirty to be taken; no reputation
is too transparently honest to be assailed.
It is often argued, in condonation of all this
flagrant blackguardism, that it is only the
W»rk of the iacaals anyhow—that the
Cooks, the Irvines and the Glynns hold
sternly aloof from it. Ana so they do, so
far as actual personal participation is con-
cerned. But inasmuch as their words carry
weight, and they never utter a syllable in
reprobation of the malicious lying that they
know to be going on in what is considered
to be their interests, they are morally as
guilty as the actual offenders. In fact, they
are rather more to be blamed. They want
the results without any of the ignominy.
The Laborites are little better in this re-
spect. If half the idiotic statements they
have made in the last month or so about
Tory bribes to their opponents’ coffers were
true, it would mean that the Liberal party is
absolutely rolling in wealth. The cold, drab
fact is that the Federal Liberal party is such
a palpably opportunist crowd—-so chronically
ready to sink its Defence principles, or its
anti-Socialist principles, or its fiscal prin-
ciples at the first dim hint that recantation
will mean a few votes —that the local
capitalist hardly regards it as worth
buying. And that is apart altogether from
the circumstance that there are few, if any,
Liberals who could be bought with hard cash
—undesirable though they may be in other
respects. As a natural outcome of the
slangwhangine that is going on between the
parties, in the name of Responsible Govern-
ment, the most ludicrous accusations are
being levelled at outsiders. This paper
speaks from experience. One of the pro-
prietors of The Bulletin happens to be in-
terested in a wireless co. which failed to do
business with the Postal Department. The
paper, both before and after that episode,
said some of those things about the Postal
Department which every other citizen was
saying, in a considerably more envenomed
tone of voice, every other day. The P.M.G.
of the day immediately announces, in effect,
to a shocked audience that he is being vic-
timised, in this matter, because he refused to
give what would have amounted to a bribe.
A writer considers that Dalgety, by reason
of its unfailing water-power supply, would
be a better capital site than Canberra. It
is pointed out, on no evidence whatever, that
he owns a vast estate at Dalgety. A trust
which does not pay particularly good wages,
take it for all in all, and which charges ex-
orbitant prices for its wares, is assailed. An-
other trust which,, in the important matters
of its wage-sheets and in the reasonableness
of its charges is hardly assailable, happens
to be left alone. The inference is that it has
paid to be left alone. And so on, till further
notice. The late W. J. Lyne was a militant
Protectionist. He was. incidentally, an honest
man. The Liberal muck-rakers of the sort
who are now blowing busily upon the reputa-
tions of Fisher and his colleagues circulated
the most hair-raising yarns - concerning the
boodlings of Lyne. He might have been a
rich man. He certainly would have been a
very rich one had he dope half the infamous
things his enemies accused him of doing. Yet
he died poor. And even with that evidence
in his favor, the fairer-minded papers felt
called upon to insist in their obituaries on
his uprightness, so deeply had the reiterated
lies concerning him bitten into the popular
mind. In this paper’s opinion, the time has
arrived for a truce in the matter of assorted
political slander. A modus operandi should
easily be arrived at between the party lead-
ers, since the most superficial consideration
of the question must satisfy their intelli-
gences that this, as much as anything else,
is sickening the constituencies not only with
the Party Government system, but with them
as individuals. The present campaign of
calumny will peter out the moment the big
men on either side give their jackals and
heelers the word. If it isn’t given moder-
ately soon, there is a likelihood, at the pre-
sent rate of progress, of some villainously-
assailed member resorting to the only arbi-
trament left to him —that of the gun. Con-
sidering what a rotten shot the average
Parliamentarian is, that possibility is
fraught with peril to the entire Legislative
body.
From an old S. Aus. politician :
We in S. Ans. have been treated in a most nnfra-
ternal fashion in connection with the Murray waters
question. We have gone over and over again to con-
ferences wph the Eastern States in the hone of arriv-
ing at some mutuallv satisfactory agreement in re-
gard to the rival claims of navigation and irrigation,
and have come back with the belief that at last some-
thing definite had been done. But invariably one or
the other of the upner-river States has, at the
twelfth hour, gone back on the undertakings. Re-
cently N.S.W. and Vic. magnanimously agreed that
S.A. should be allowed at its sole expense to store ‘
water in the Lake Victoria basin to provide for a
navigable, stream lower down. The work will cost
£483,000, and it will benefit the up-river States by-
giving them more water for irrigation. But although
S.A. wrote three or four times to N.S.W. to urge the
passage of the Enabling Bill in time to allow of the
work being begun this year, no reply of any kind
had been received when the Bill for the work Was sub-
mitted to the S.A. Parliament. This sort of conduct
is not calculated to engender brotherly feelings among
the States. The agreement was signed by the three
Premiers who met in conference two years ago, so
there was amnle time to consider ft in all' its
aspects, while S.A. was getting the advice of Captain
Johnston, the American expert, on the scheme. He is
due to arrive in September to carry out the work •
yet the Eastern States have not had the courtesv to
ratify their own offer. Once they agreed to share the
expense of the Lake Victoria works with S.A., as they
recognised they would get as much good out of it as
wou^c * ’ hut when Premier V err an showed, in
1911, that he was over-anxious to make a start, the
eastern Premiers varied their agreement to the extent
of stipulating that S.A. must do all the paying,
lhat hard condition being accepted, the other States
become again suspicious and hesitate to let the busi-
ness go on. Once upon a time, Addison, M.L.C., who
in his day was a champion rifle shot, and whose son
won the King's prize at Bisley, threatened to lead an
expedition of sharpshooters up the Murray to compel
the Eastern States to concede S.A. its rights in the
water. It may come to that yet.
A SPRING OUTBURST.
Now is the spring upon us, when man’s
fancy lightly turns to thoughts of iced
lager and the Melbourne Cup prospects and
green peas; and when woman’s imaginings
are of bilious billions of hats or what passes
for hats in these days of fashionable luna-
tics ; also, the soul of the spring
poet leapeth like the mountain goat, and
the spring chicken toughens in his old age
and tuings generally buck up and chalk their
slioes for another go at the greasy boom of
hate. Wherefore, the Royal Art Society,
in the warming days of last week, spread
its tender canvases upon tue wall space at
its Sydney home in Pitt-street. in its
haste to blossom forth it got ahead of the
delivery of its catalogues, so that there were
none,available on press view day (Friday)
nor on private view day (Saturday) ; at
least, there were a few, but apparently only
for the Elect, of whom The Bulletin
found, in a chastened spirit and a rebuked
and humbled attitude, that it was not one.
Some time, or thereabouts, when the mere
herd can purchase the official book contain-
ing the names of the contributing artists,
and what their contributions are supposed
to represent, and the prices asked, and a
tew other mere trifles of the kind; nothing
will prevent it obtaining the information.
Till then, it will struggle with the subject
in a general and somewhat casual way.
This is the easier done because the cata-
logues of last year’s show, and the show of
the year before, and of the previous or prior
or preceding year are available, and the
work was of somewhat the same character
on those occasions as it is this year. Maybe
there is a width of difference through which
a small fore-and-aft elephant could be
pushed, but the animal would have to be
melted down first and strained carefully,
and the bones thrown at the president of
the Society by way of encouragement all
round. Whatever difference does exist in
this spring’s show as compared with similar
exhibitions of the past _ few years by the
R.A.S. is on the side of improvement in the
general average. That is satisfactory to
contemplate. So is a life of rectitude, but
•there is nothing like a dog fight or two if
you want enthusiasm. The R.A.S. would
be the better for a little more Philistine in
its composition.
The National Gallery trustees made three
purchases—a characteristic oil by Dattilo
Rubbo; an etching of Sydney’s old Argyle
Cut by Alfred Coffey to add to two or three
of his already in the Gallery; and a good
sample of Gladys Laycoek’s miniature por-
trait painting. The landscapes, and there are
a whole herd of them, raise no undue enthu-
siasm in the hardened observer. As usual,
Lister Lister covers much space with his
familiar brush. He covers too much. .He
is a capable and attractive land- and sea-
scape painter, but he is too constant with
the old line of poods. Refreshing features
are exhibits of H. S. Power, a Victorian
who has been lately in England. He has
put some good spirit into an oil painting of
a girl-romp and her pony, and brilliant color
work into another of a pair of macaws
And C. W. Worsley! Foreign travel has
inspired him to some fine touches of line and
color. Worsley is a painter generally worth
the careful consideration of buyers. Hey-
sen. the South Australian, is well and truiy
represented with some delicate water colors,
but J. J. Hilder is not so surely satisfying
as on other occasions—nothing nearly' so
attractive as, say. his “Moreton Island” of
the 1010 show of the Society of Artists, at
Sydney, or “The Dry Lagoon.” bought for
the National Gallery in 1011. Sid Long is
frankly disappointing; but ,T. Muir Anld
has been a diligent and painstaking worker
for the show, and has come on surnrisinglv.
ITis big oil of a girl and violin (“Inspira-
tion”) suffers from the tense pose of the
model., but the pose of another model, a girl
in black, “has enabled him to produce a
charming result. An old friend. Percy
Spence, with a small oil of a hill crest, a
team of horses, a windmill and a splash of
red., has given a cheerful example of his
ability . to brighten things up with a
little bit of snare color. But in a portrait
of J. L. Campbell. Tv.O.. Snence makes the
face look like a mask that has been fitted on
with a horsehair wig. No face can look like
that and live it down. .T. S. Watkins here-
with gets a lift for two verv good portraits
of aged citizens, but for his portraits of some
other citizens the eve of suspicion is upon
him. .Tames Ashton has the most picturesque
seascape on the walls —a sunset. The loca-


THE POLICY OF THE GOVERNMENT
IS BACKED BY THE SOUND
JUDGMENT OF THE PEOPLE.
"A WHITE AUSTRALIA”
j
. . . and . . .
“MACKIE’S
WHITE HORSE WHISKY.”
Y l ■ • '
A GRAND DOUBLE.
4*
w
gw I I I 111 11 ■
Mr. Fred McCrae presents:
THE BUTTERFLIES
(on world tour).
A new combination of England's most talented artists in their
riUSICAL FLIGHTS OF FANCY
AND VOLATILE VAUDEVILLE.
Potted Plays, Artistic, Dramatic and Musical Sketches.
The highly successful season at the MAJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE,
closes THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 11.
Sydney Season Opens Saturday, September 13,
at the
LITTLE THEATRE.
Direction W. BARRINGTON MILLER.
lity may be ascertained by borrowing the
Governor’s catalogue and looking up 63.
Arthur Burgess is not the feature that he
was at the cabinet' exhibition last April,
with Australian warships. His drawing of
the Melbourne calls for some Parliamentary
comment (N. S. Wales brand). James R.
Jackson has spread himself over a few
yards of canvas to depict Canberra country.
So did Lister Lister (oils and water colors).
Lister takes the pool. Jackson makes
another big bid with a girl in white holding
a red umbrella, but the hammer raps to
George J. Coates’s brand of girl—a young
actress in costume taking a curtain. There
are only two miniatures exhibited, both by
Gladys Laycock—nice work. Alfred
Coffey’s and Bruce Robertson’s etchings
stand out of the black and white ruck.
Dozens of others will have to go un-
noticed. and, as regards the bulk of them,
uncursed.
According to the Argus, the “proposal to
form a Greater Melbourne Council may be
classed as a vision of the far-away future.
Doubtless the day will come when such a
council may be required, but the time has
not yet arrived.” When you hear that you
know you’ve won the argument.
It was rough on the individual sufferer,
but only fair to her sex, that the latest
sufferer from the hatpin evil should have
been a woman. She was standing outside
the theatre in Ballarat when a passing hat-
pin penetrated the pupil of her eye and
nearly blinded it. In previous cases a male
eye received the dagger thrust, and the
guilty Sex viewed the matter with haughty
indifference.
S.A. Supreme Court has had to consider
a case which it shied at deciding. If you
cannot read or write, and consequently keep
your bank account in your wife’s name, and
she, after 20 years of married life, clears
out with your nephew, who gets the money?
It was shown that the wife had done a good
bit towards earning the fund, so Judge
Gordon—who is fond of King Solomon’s
precedent—-suggested that the parties might
go outside and chop the bank-account in
halves. Chopped accordingly.
From “Red Tape” :
The N.S.W. Government has made a fresh effort
to deal with its rather troublesome dependency, Nor-
folk Island. Some time ago, when McGowen was
Premier, it is understood in undiplomatic circles
that he and Governor Strickland had done quite
serious battle over the way the affairs of the island
had been conducted. Whether or not, a change was
decided upon, and Michael Murphy has started duty
as Administrator and Chief Magistrate of the island.
Mike has been for 40 years in the Sydney office of
the Department which looks after the affairs of the
islanders, and if he doesn’t know all about them
he has wasted an unusual quantity of time in not
finding out.
Thanks to the Federal grant of £500,000,
the first instalment of which blew into
Treasurer Payne’s office this year and made
it £95,000 the richer, Tasmania’s famously-
persistent floating deficit has been totally
sunk, for the first time since 1884. The
Federal windfall, after paying £lB,OOO as a
special aid to mining, was big enough to
obliterate the floating incubus of £44,762,
and leave the State with an alleged surplus
of £32,238. The Government of the Fly-
speck is so overjoyed at this unusual good
fortune that it proposes to splash up £20,000
of the surplus on the main roads of the
island, which the municipalities are too par-
simonious to keep in order for themselves;
£5OOO goes in “repairs and renewals to roads
and tracks” ; and £6OOO goes on patches and
additions to public buildings.
When the Turks came back and emptied
the Bulgarians out of Adrianople it was
announced that Russia in particular and
Europe in general would apply the boot to
Abdul if he did not leave the town quietly.
A Russian army was said to be hovering on
the Armenian border, and a Russian
squadron was alleged to be approaching the
Bosphorus. But Abdul sat tight, though he
was quite sober. And nothing happened.
So Abdul went abroad and emptied the
Bulgarian out of Kirk Kilisse. This brought
more threats of what is known as interven-
tion. But Abdul had decided that inter-
vention was a mere jimjam. When the
Allies grabbed practically all his European
territories Abdul waited for the Powers to
redeem the declaration made at the begin-
ning of the war, that they would not be
allowed to annex. And while he waited the
Allies proceeded to divide the spoil, and
Abdul had to formally cede it at the Treaty
of London. So when his turn came he pro-
ceeded to recover some of his lost loam, and
took his chance. Nothing has happened
again. The idea of intervention has been
given up in favor of a financial boy-
cott. if _ one can be arranged. There are
doubts if it can, as the brunt of it would
fall on Abdul’s foreign creditors. So the
chances are that he will keep what he has
grabbed or recovered—till the Bulgar or the
Greek is strong enough to turn *him out.
Meanwhile many things may happen, but
the least likely is that the man with the'fez
will pull himself together and start a com-
prehensive system of water supplwand drain-
age in Adrianople—the only thing that
would justify his presence there.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
R0ya1.... "A Fair Highwayman.”
Her Majesty's Adeline Genee.
Palace “The Golden Shantv.”
Criterion “The Arcadians.”
A Delphi “Queen of White Slaves.”
Tivoli Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
National Amphitheatre Brennan's Vaudeville Co.
Alhambra Vaudeville.
Lyceum.... Spencer's Pictures.
I.yric
Colonial r Continuous Pictures.
Empress /
Crystal Palace Continuous Pictures, etc,.
Olympia West's Pictures.
Imperial Roller Rink. Roller Skating.
Town Ha 11.... John McCormack.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s Quinlan Opera Co.
Princess's “Barry of Ballymore.”
Ring's “Struck Oil.”
Royal “The Fortune Hunter.”
Bijou. .“Fanny’s First Play.”
Opera House Mclntosh s Vaudeville Co.
West's Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer's Pictures.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
Wirths' Hippodrome. .. Wirths’ Circus.
It is many years since Edward Dyson
wrote the story of “A Golden Shanty” for
The Bulletin—the story of the Shamrock
Hotel, which hung out its disreputable sign
“not a day’s tramp from Ballarat, set well
hack from a dusty track that started no-
where in particular and had no destina-
tion worth mentioning.” One Michael Doyle
owned the shanty, which was built by an
eccentric German, of sun-dried bricks made
of gold-bearing dirt. Doyle bought the pub
for a trifle at the tail end of a “rush,” and
subsequently was on the verge of selling it
for £5O to a syndicate of Chinese who had
discovered that the shanty went about 3J
grains to the brick. Then an accident put
him wise to the attempted outrage on his
Irish innocence. The air was filled with the
fury of Doyle, and the shouts of Tipperary,
and the embitterment of Galway, and the
lament of China fleeing in its loose blue
dungaree pants from the wrath to come.
And when these disturbances were shovelled
away the Shamrock was demolished and put
through the battery, to the great profit of
Michael Doyle.
* * * *
That is the framework of Dyson’s- com-
edy-drama, “The Golden Shanty.” which
was set before a crowded and highly-inter-
ested audience at the Palace (Svdney) on
Saturday night by the Bert Bailey Co.
But to build up the piece the author threw
out some of the original characters and in-
troduced others from his wonderfully fertile
mind. Michael Doyle, as the shanty pro-
prietor, is fired in favor of Mrs. Edna Jack,
better known as Brummy Peters, “the
washerwoman of Jacker’s Flat,” that hard-
faced, good-hearted female who damned the
bar-keep’s eyes in “The Pick and Barrow”
because there was no stout available, and
‘made it gin.” Lilias Adeson is a trifle
forced in her mannishness, but, probably,
“THE GOLDEN SHANTY," AT THE
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Chiller Green (Bert Bailey) on the track
of work.
the original was likewise. Anyhow, a lot
of better-known actresses could play the
difficult part with much less appreciation.
But the most striking character introduced
is “Chiller” Green, the pride of the “push.”
As a support of distressed Virtue and a
nark ’ to Villainy, especially when it sports
a, pigtail, Bert Bailey dominates the entire
piece and to a considerable extent drags the
dramatic interest behind his high-heeled per-
sonality. On the low comedy of Chiller and
Minnie, his clinah (a lady rouseabout, for-
merly of “push” ■ society K the author has
spread himself, and, but for occasional ex-
aggeration in “clobber.” he has great reason
to be satisfied with the return he receives
from Bert Bailey and that clever young
actress, Laura Roberts.
The mam conspiracy in the play is not
the original one of a colony of Chow fos-
sickers to get possession of the Golden
Shanty, though that is a prominent side
issue, but the location and pegging-out of a
rich quartz reef. This gives the regulation
hero, heroine and villain (the old team —
Guy Hastings, Ada Oakley and Richard
Bellairs) the opportunity to earn their sal-
aries. Of the Chinese characters,
Arthur Bertram, as Ah Cow, can take
three cheers to himself. No other
“Pong” is in the same province. And
Guy Hastings, hero and selector, is as able
as usual. Several of the others in the cast
are not lip to the standard of the leads nor
the requirements of ,tjje show. Probably
they’ll improve, but, before they get settled
down, some of parts, particularly those
of the derelicts and fan tod specialists, want
the pruning Shears. An improvement
has been made, and by the time this
sees print “The Golden Shanty” should be
running more smoothly. The scenery is well
done by Robert Vaughan. The opportunity
to enjoy a good laugh and to hear some of
the smartest and quaintest dialogue that
has occurred in Sydney for a long time will
continue to occur until further advice.
“'THE GOLDEN SHANTY."
The Booze King (Fred McDonald) farewells 6 '
an old companion.
“A Marriage of Convenience,” the dainty
costume play with which the Waller-
Titheradge co. is filling one fugitive week
at Sydney Royal, will be just finishing its
brief run when this Bulletin is being read
by the playgoer with a sprig of golden wattle
in his buttonhole and Spring in his heart.
Consequently, this paper feels like the pant-
ing wedding guest, who, while hurrying at
top speed to the festivity, knows quite well
that he will arrive too late to dash his two
pounds of confetti on the bridegroom’s
neck. “The Marriage” is one of the stage’s
everlastings, and it blooms in its beautifully
delicate and artificial way at long intervals.
Probably it wouldn’t have faded off so
soon if Sydney had been itself. Grundy’s
adaptation of Dumas’ love story, with its
beautiful clothes and manners and pictur-
esque immorals, affords Waller the best
chance he has had thus far. He gives a
fine, bevelled-edge impersonation of the
Comte de Candale—the elegant husband who
allows his young wife’s admirer to infest the
house. Madge Titheradge, as the fluttering
little convent-trained Comtesse, is another
sort of Butterfly—a charming, highly-colored,
eighteenth-century variety. Marianne Clad-
well plays brightly as Marton, the maid;
Reginald Dane is perfectly satisfactory as
Valclos, the magnificent hanger-on; and Hal-
liwell Hobbes, as an ancient and shocked
fire-eater, seems quite probable. On Satur-
day night “A Fair Highwayman” will be
staged for the first time in Australia, under
the personal direction of author William
Devereux.
*❖ * *
That earnest young press agent—well, his
name need not be mentioned—has been utter-
ing plaintive and scandalised cries in this
office and elsewhere concerning the writer’s
remarks about the Genee show at Her
Majesty’s (Sydney). If press agency is
persevered with long enough it gets
into the blood. and either blights
severely or totally annihilates the sense
of proportion. The victim sees malice,
combined with imbecility, irreligion and
a tendency to drink rum at breakfast, in
all comment on the boom of the moment
which is not absolutely, boundless in its adu-
lation. When in that state the agent really
believes the multitudinous things which it is
his business to clamor about his firm’s reign-
ing idol. Of course the writer said nothin
that the normal human being could regard ««
derogatory to Gen6e—a dancer whom he ha
admired heartily for 15 years or more wC
he did mention was that 21' hours of
her was over the odds, to the extent s 0 far
as he was concerned, of being boresome • and
to that great truth he still adheres. T 0 ho
unable to distinguish between that point of
view and an attitude of pronounced hostility
is simply to be —well, a prqss agent.
* * * *
Deaths, 39; seriously smashed up 47 •
slightly wounded, 84; escaped, two—a nigger
who should have died and a hero who mwer
should have lived. That is as near as Thf
BunLETrN can get to the score at Sydney
Adelphi on Saturday, the first night of “The
Queen of the White Slaves.” The villain
of last season and the season-before is
“chucked” by the usual hero’s sweetheart
He yells for the same old revenge and
Fong Low (a Chow Prince) aids and abets
him just as Lord Marmaduke did in
the first mellowdrama that ever was
The. choicest attractions are—(l) the
moving walls, between which the hero
and . heroine are dropped by the Chow
villain to be gently squoze (and would
have been had a semi-hero minded
his business) ; (2) the flaming pit, from
which the villain escapes only after a long
fight (casualties, about 30. Hereabouts a
parson, who was sitting next the writer
got up and left) ; (3) the row on the
yacht, which ends in the heroine’s brother
(an opium fiend; being heaved overboard
followed by the hero; (4) the rescue
of the couple on the raft, by which time the
opium-smoker is an uninteresting corpse-
and (fifthly and finally) the Great Inva-
sion of China by eleven supers. At
odd times there are 29 or so other violent
deaths and numerous casualties, of which
only a blurred recollection remains. In
one of the placid moments of the play the
heroine and her brother are abducted from
Frisco by the villain, the Chow Prince
and numerous Chow servants ; but in such a
welter the sight of a dozen Chows, one of
them in princely robes, and a gent, with a
silk hat dragging a squealing and kicking
female through the streets of ’Frisco, is not
enough to arouse any suspicion or much
interest. Incidentally, the scenery is ex-
cellent. Miss Nellie Fergusson is quite a
success as the wronged heroine; Herbert
Leigh has charge of the impossible Chow
prince, Hilliard Vox of the still more im-
possible bad egg. and Cyril Mackay of the
utterlv impossible hero. There is no loss
of life among the audience so far.
❖* * *
"The Dancing Mistress” having kicked her
last kick by the time this issue is published,
a . revival of “The Arcadians,” with an en-
tirely new cast and a new Sombra, will
arrive at Sydney Criterion on Saturday.
** * *
While the Sydney Crystal Palace was
unwinding the mile or so of film that the
cinema-production of “Ivanhog” called for
and got, much to the satisfaction of every-
one who saw it, the Colonial was enjoying
the excitement of a Wild West “round-up”
in Law and the Outlaw.” This picture
is as chock-full of daredevilism as any “cow-
boy” picture to date. At the same theatre a
scenic of the snowy ranges in Colorado and
thereabouts provides. those artistically in-
clined with much edifying entertainment.
On Saturday Miss Willette Whittaker
and Wilbur Hill, purveyors of various
brands of harmony, appealed against a con-
viction recorded at the Sydney Tivoli eight
, a£r ° - Their defence is after the style
ot Nella . Webb’s, only 50 per cent, more
entertaining and less liable to become
wearisome. Miss Whittaker provides the
songs and harp, and Hill the fiddle accom-
paniment. The Court upholds the appeal.
Other items . also worth while are
those of Parish, the acrobatic musician;
Menan s Dogs, the Primroses and the
Golden Troupe.
** * *
Nordica. Paul Dufault, violinist Frankliu
Holding and pianist Romayne Simmons are
concluding their brief return Sydney season
with a matinee concert, as this Bulletin
prepares for press. On Monday night, Nor-
dica won tw'o discordant bursts of applause
With a_coup!e of “Lohengrin” selections, and
I aul Dufault almost got footsore, 1 so often
did he tramp to and from the footlights.
As regards the Tuesday concert, this paper
accepts no responsibility. If the trams
didn t make so much noise, Brunnhilde’s
battlecry might be audible from the office
roof; but one lonely shriek isn’t sufficient
evidence.
** * *
The freak and novelty dances that are just
now advertising Uncle Sam about as much
as his Panama Canal have a pair of smart
interpreters in Marcell and Bell at the
National (Sydney). Another dancer at the
show, Huntress, appeals more to the classic
taste. Those who are not satisfied either
way are squared, with a long helping of acro-
batics, music, singing (which isn’t always
the same thing), comedies, and so on, the
so on” being extremely varied.


THe World's Best.
DAIMLER
MOTOR LORRY.
Silent Knig'lrt Engine.
(Shaft Drive No Chains,
~v..
*
SUNSHINE
Motor Cars P*t*y
Melbourne.
Hugh V. McKay, Sydney & Adelaide,
.
Sole
Agents.
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
Pitt & King Streets, SYDNEY.
Victorian Branch :50 Queen Street, Melbourne. s . j. FoW ler, Manager.
FIRE, ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, etc.
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
’Phone No. 236 Central. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
w
Y Q
poOßo&.soN’
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
&
DT
awiFT &• cOMPANyT ai;>,TßALAstan- agents. <y
CONN£LL St SYDNEY -
Adelaide, which has to take its n»nh
when it comes, now has “Puss in
the Royal, with the Lennon it the imnrf
babie horse, and the whole bag-of-tricks Th«
Tivoli its last week in theoldhome be-
S".™Vu» b 5 ‘furious thiato
King’s still** has" the 6 T of
w > on ?\f rate, is marvellous), and lias
added the Robvos, and Matthews and Mack
The picture shows are mostly of Australian
interest-XVondergrapli with “His Naffi
Life and West’s with “Australia Calls ”
QUINLAN OPERA CO., AT HER
MAJESTY'S, MELBOURNE.
"Tales of Hoffmann.”
Dr. Mirakel (Charles
Magrath).
“ Tannhauser."
Elizabeth (Perceval
Allen).
There is little to add to the foregoing
except that Allen Doone gave a mild and
innocuous portrayal of the name character
at Melbourne Princess’s on Saturday. Miss
Edna Keeley, Miss Bashford, Tom Buckley,
Prank .Cullenane and others thickened the
proceedings with Hibernian brogue, but the
play on the whole demanded more assistance
than they -could give it.
** * *
After musical life’s fitful fever of 17
operas in 16 days at Her Majesty’s (Melb.)
the earnest patrons of Quinlan are presum-
ably sleeping well. To-night (Thursday)
they will leave the theatre to be rushed by
plain, ordinary customers who have been
crowded out of the procession. A final
performance of “Hoffmann” is billed, and
revivals of “Tannhauser,” “Louise” and
“Aida” are to follow in that order. Last
week the Wagner “Ring” series was com-
pleted by capital productions of “Siegfried”
and the still more lengthv “Gotterdammer-
un£>” or “Twilight of the Gods.” One
trouble with Siegfried” is the prevalence
rnJa “u me - chara «er, sung *by Francis
osta, who is a tough, robustious tenor,
i a ciude swank and a way of swaying
his brawny arhis as though he were looking
foi ap apron. Perhaps, if the various
enHnm m , the , Ring” were put to a refer-
endum vote, the patient admirers of Wag-
grandiloquent nonsense, which has no
!> h>)eal in its mystical entangle-
n„eYD.s! loose “Rotterdammer ung”
Valkyrie,” and give “Rhein-
gold the third place. In “Hotter, etc.,”
‘‘rw ls „ a mi eak favoring of Shakspeare’s
Qream. Ihe story mercifully kills Sieg-
_^ d in. sight of the audience, and brings
glad tidings of god Wotan having pegged
out behind the scenes. Also the story con-
tains many Wagnerian details that the
denop Sem Ta t n .. e . v er attempts to put in evi-
-1 h , e Quinlan Company does con-
sideiable, if not ample, justice to it. The
tenor even becomes truly impressive—in
conjunction With the “usie-whL he raises
J S dead > meat y. amu like the famous gal-
dow- P° r P e 111 The Face at the Win-
do . Pa rker, as the ; bad man of the mys-
tery, is full of dignified tone and person-
al’ an r d the °i> he T men are U P t° their
work. Jeanne Brola, always an effective
actress, is exceptionally sweet in her sing-
ing. *
* * *
As regards Tannhauser,” an insufficiency
ot brazen uproar and the uncouthness of
the \ enusberg ballet are the ojily serious
detects in an impressive performance. The
ballet reminds one of the historic Wain-
wright, who could think of no particular rea-
son why he murdered his girl relative except
that her ankles were thick. In “Aida ” the
most evenly-balanced of all the Quinlan pro-
ductions to date, Edna Thornton and Brola
repeated their fine acting of a year ago, and
T V.- J- was again the Ethiopian
King. The black monarch is not Samuell’s
best character, however. Instead of pre-
senting a noble savage down on his luck, he
almost realises one’s conception of Will
Whitburn in a terrible scot. As for tenor
Maurice D’Oisly as Radames, his sweet
voice must be incapable of any effort to
speak otherwise it would have got going
in the famous aria. D’Oisly is stodgy and
repressed in every hero part he plays.
* * * *
Not that the sedate tenor was all to blame
i j feebleness as the ardent lover who
led Charpentier’s “Louise” astray. The
I rench opera is very weak in its tenor char-
acter, otherwise it is a strong, haunting
composition. Charpentier supplied his own
libretto, which hits harder than the mawkish
stones of ‘Bohfeme” and “Camille,”
whilst the music, which seems to imitate
the melodiousness of Puccini in the first
act, develops a sweet manner of its own as
the opera proceeds. It fascinates at a first
hearing, and explains why “Louise” ran
100 consecutive nights in Paris. In the;
first and last acts the melodrama has mo-
ments of human family interest. The street
scene, though wholly superfluous, is strong
in its touches of character, and the two
rowdy scenes for the chorus have each a
dramatic climax. Louise is the eternal
young feminine who breaks awav from
parental control to lead the sinful life, with
a lover. Mother lures her back by telling
her ; father is ill. When he gets better he
can’t bounce her into remaining virtuous.
Ultimately the vituperative, loving dad
throws a kitchen chair after Louise as she
makes her get-away, and her fond, scolding
mother pities herself for being unsympa-
thetic. Jeanne Brola (the daughter)' and
Edna Thornton (mother) act exceedinglv
well, Samuell makes a hit as the rugged
father, Spencer Thomas is valuable, and
many others figure on the bill. Scenery and
lighting help to prevent this long novelty
from becoming tedious, yet there is no rea-
son why, with a shortening of the waits
between acts, the start should not be made
at 7.30 instead of seven.
»* * *
At Melbourne Royal the heavenly smile
of Nathaniel Niblo continues to attract the
womenkind of Radville Park to poor old
Sam Graham’s drug store. Everybody
speaks kindly of “The Fortune Hunter.”
whilst noting the fact that “Wallingford”
has, in a measure, reduced it to an echo, of
the patent carpet-tack comedy. Happily
the differences between the Wallingford of
yesterday and the Nathaniel of now are all
in favor of Niblo’s personal claim to adora-
tion, so Miss Enid Bennett, who snatches
the prize packet from the grasp of Rad-
ville’s, leading heiress, is about the most
envied little girl .iji Melbourne these times.
On the other hand, Nathaniel is regarded
as a lucky dog.
sk Hi Hi ik
At the Majestic (Melbourne) the Butter-
flies are preparing to spread their gossamer
wings and flit. They have chang'ed their
programme for the last time before closing
the season next week. On Saturday (13th)
Harry Corson Clarke takes the floor with
his new comedy co.
* * * *
At Melbourne Opera House all is as it
was a week ago, except that the De Bruns
have just waltzed back into the bill. The
Hoboes, the Saxones, and Diamond and
Beatrice are staying on for a while; also
Lola, whose personal attractions are
assisted by a very moderately beautiful
waible, and Martynne, who has few attrac-
tions. Billie Reeves, the Mullers,
blynn and McLoughlin and Whitehead
are leaving to-night (Thursday), but the
lamentable roosters will remain on their
foolish job until to-morrow.
** * #
Wirths’ Circus, being a distinct improve-
ment on many previous shows of its kind
that Melbourne has seen, is getting its
name up at the Hippodrome building. On
the stage and in the ring two dozen items
come and go. The elephants, of course, are
bh®, weightiest feature on the programme
( feature is the right word here, for even
hant’s face must weigh about
llzlb.) ; moreover, Toby, the crafty old
leader of the gang, has learned a new trick
since the polar bears threatened to put his
long nose out of. joint. But the star turn
this circus time is La Belle Victoria. Vic-
toria on the swinging wire is a thing of
beauty and a joy.
THE QUINLAN
OPERA CO., AT
HER
MAJESTY'S,
MEL-
BOURNE.
“ Tannhauser.”
Tannhauser (Fra. cis
Costa).
Many people who had lately seen
* anny’s First Play” put through by
McMahon and his amateurs, at the Athen-
aeum Hall, hastened to meet the comedy
again at the Bijou on Saturday night. Nat-
urally Fanny’s effusion gets a better showing
at the theatre, with its adequate facilities
for staging and lighting, and in most re-
spects it is better acted : yet the difference
between pros, and amateurs hardly calls
for a donation of bouquets to the Buckler
co. The ladies are the weakness of the pres-
ent combination. Miss Shirley Huxley in
the giddy part of Dora Delaney does least
to justify her obvious faith in herself: she
is. stagey and self-conscious. Nor is Miss
Violet Paget always, convincing as Margaret
Knox, or Miss Lilian Dloyd as Fanny
O’Dowda. Miss Pigott and Miss Stephen-
son are good enough, as a rule. Among the
men, Kenneth Brampton as Bobby Gilbey
is an entertainment all the time: Alfred
Bristowe is palpably disconcerted by the
part of Lieutenant Duvallet; and Hugh
Buckler’s Juggins, despite his garb, resembles
& white-headed hero in a picture play.
Lardley Turner as Count O’Dowda revives
the ideas of the 18th century, and the sus-
tained vigor of Arthur Cornell keeps Bobby
Gilbey’s old parent alive.
** * *
The feature of the bill at Melbourne Olym-
pia on Saturday was “The Dead Secret,” the
story of a careless female and a baby. Judg-
ing by its mamma’s casualness in handing it
over to a demented stranger, the infant was
exceedingly reckless in its choice of a parent.
“The Honor of a Soldier” was an ancient
story badly told, and “A Victim of Hered-
ity” crudely suggested that a burglar’s off-
spring wants to play with’ a jemmy almost
before he begins to teeth. “Highway of the
Alps” was a fsne strip of Alpine scenery, but
the comic “Amateur Juggler” was too slow
in action, and is hereby cautioned for loiter-
ing.
if * *
“Struck Oil” is renewing its popularity
at Melbourne Kihg’s for a limited number
of nights. Maggie Moore in any old drama
is a winner from the start, and Maggie,
with her renowned plait of pale Dutch hair
hitched on. and her mouth-organ in her
pocket, and her warm ’art alwavs in the
right place, gets away from the barrier as
quickly as ever. The co. looks much the
same collection of familiar figures that lived
in Oilsburg of yore. J. F. Forde and C.
Brown are there again, and Roberts is the
sa.me good old John who returns to life
with a damaged head and a long-lost
memory.
“D.”: From the S. M. Herald's report (B. l/9/’l3)
of the Genee show:—
“The curtain rises on a splendidly-set hunting
scene. Nothing is left out at all. Even the setters
are there.”
There is something wrong about this. No horse that
was ever foaled could last throughout a sharp burst
over a stiff line of country with a pack of setters.
The Herald must have meant bulldogs.
BARRY OF BALLYMORE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
T ° m B th7core- an artiSt ChaP ’ trUe Irish to
His mother is a matron quaint and small •
IS ' BaU™"™ 15, CaStle iU a «Ued
Wh " e iSf S „a^i„ g s a " r “ Bged “
And Lady Mary Bannon runs the Hall.
Swate Mary is a haughty “piece,” a pure
and proud colleen, P
Determined to keep Barry in his place;
She fain would stab his feelings with a wit
which isn’t keen,
But he warbles songs beguiling in a voice of
verdant green,
And gets his smiling answer on her face.
He “narks” her villain suitor (who is titled
and abhorred
By all the tattered peasants in the play)
So they meet in mortal combat; and the
artist sheaths his sword
When he might have put the baronet to bed
beneath the swaid—
Which stamps him as a Hero, right away.
And thus the dauntless songster wins his
lady at the last,
But ere he’ll grab the prize that he has
won
He means to bring Lord Bannon, with the
territory vast,
To recognise the offspring he deserted in the
past—
And when Tom means to do a thing, it’s
done!
The noble deeds of Barry could be numbered
by the score ;
His artless jests are scattered o’er the
plot:
His ballads are suggestive of the late
lamented Moore:
Shure Ballymore’s his castle, as was stated
once before,
And the ballad of the bard is Ballyrot.
VICTOKIA.
JEAN SIBI.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Although perfervid choreographiques, soul-
asthetes, peripatetic philosophers and deeply erudite
members of the cognoscenti may not impossibly
desire to hurl the clod of contumely and reprobation
at the Philistine who propounded the Genfie critique
(B. 21/8/’l2), yet after profound and bottomless
consideration of the show, one feels that his propo-
sitions were, on the whole, accurate. Viewed with
the dispassionate eye of the Morning After, all these
pirouettes and abundant calisthenics and castings
of the human frame through the circumambient
atmosphere towards the welkin' may be described as
superfluous. Why does a dancer go up ? That she
may come down again. Why does she come down?
That she may go up again. “All that can be said of
her is that when she is up she is up, and when she
is down she is down, and when she is half-way up
or half-way down she is neither one thing nor ‘the
other ; but is half-and-half, which is the same as
shandygaff, or even dog’s-nose (beer and gin). It
is all a leaping of supererogation. It is a case of
the unfixed throwing herself perpendicularly against
the unattainable. She is trying to hitch her back-
hair to a star and leave her hinder hairpin in the
Milky Way—and she doesn’t. A dancer is an in-
complete aeroplane and an inefficient balloon. She
rises, but she doesn’t stay risen long enough, and
she can’t take up any passengers with her, or any
luggage, or any dynamite to drop on a hostile city.
She represents ambition, but not attainment. She
whirls, certainly, but she doesn’t whirl half so
effectively as the solar system. She revolves, but
after the French Revolution all other circular
attempts are poor and ordinary. To dance person-
ally is good, for it is healthy exercise, even if you
tread on your partner’s feet. (There is a case in
history of a commander-in-chief who lost his job
because he weighed about 1801 b., and he trampled
shamefully on the Queen’s feet at a Court ball, yet
all the same it was healthy for the commander-in-
chief). But to look at someone else dancing doesn’t
interest me. lam thrilled every time the lady rises,
but I am mad every time she falls. There was a
better fall in an early chapter of Genesis. With
bitterness, I note that she is back in the same old
place, and I want my money back in the same old
place, but can’t get it.
Jimmy Nunn, for the last 14 years Bilanderson’s
stage manager, retires from the profesh. James is
a much-travelled mummer. He has been pursued by
the spotlight through the United States, Hingland,
China, Japan, India and Egypt—he was the first
English mime to take a company to Cairo. He first
plastered his grave countenance with grease-paint
38 years ago, since when he’s used no other. He
served with Bandmann, William Creswick and W.E.
Sheridan, was in Rignold’s first production of “Henry
>•” Sydney Royal, at a later date was stage
manager for Rignold, and supported Mrs. Brown-
Potter and “Curly” Bellew during their first Mel-
bourne season. Twenty-three years ago he was in
the company with George Miln and Louise Jordan
had here, and in “Othello” Nunn alternated the
parts of lago and the Black Agony with Miln himself.
In “The Merchant of Venice” he was Gratiano, and
at his benefit matinee at Melbourne King’s next
Tuesday he will play Shylock in the alleged trial
scene, with Eugenie Duggan as Portia.
“0.K.”: Of Wagner’s four “Ring” operas, “The Val-
kyrie’ appears to be most popular, for it is the one
that is often played apart from the other three.
Yet the more “The Valkyrie” is considered by
sober music lovers, the more unnecessarily long-
winded it seems. The scene between Wotan, the
cronk-eyed god, and Brunnhilde, his daughter, at the
end of the opera, is a tedious extension of one idea.
The heavy father dooms his noisy girl to sleep for
an indefinite period within a zone of protecting
flames (intended to keep vicious tramps and disre-
spectful animals away), and she begs that only a
hero may at last rescue her from her hot corner.
This concession the old god decides to grant. Then
he puts her to sleep and sets the fire raging. But
the time they take to arrive at this conclusion!
One would not expect them to hurry, but their
deliberateness is over the odds. Their posing whilst
they sing is in keeping with the matter of their
discourse and supernatural character, but their tre-
mendous silent pauses whilst the band plays are
mere dallyings with the inevitable. Wagner is old-
fashioned. He lived in the time of heavily padded
novels, slow travelling and protracted theatrical
entertainments. Tragedies which ended at midnight
were preceded by curtain-raisers at 6.30 in Wagner’s
time. Shakspearian actors mouthed their speeches to
preposterous lengths when he was making operatic
history. Hustle and bustle were unknown. Sick
people dredged themselves with physic for ills which
are now cured by tabloids. The genius of condensa-
tion and impressionism had not yet come into litera-
ture, music and art. The tendency everywhere was
to go slow. And Wagner went slow —darned slow.
Musical cranks will tell you that not a bar of
Wagner’s opera music can be spared, that it is all
essential to the effect of the work, as a whole. But
who are the Wagnerian cranks? Lineal descendants
of the old Shakspeare devotees who thought that no
manager could cut a line of the Immortal Bard
without maiming and disfiguring the wordy play.
“Macko”: At Harrie Ireland’s benefit, I see that
Walter Baker gave Tennyson's “Charge of the Light
Brigade.” As a rule, I would run a mile rather
than listen to that recitation ; but to hear Baker
give it, I would willingly miss my last tram. Baker,
unfortunately, was the adopted son of Drury Lane
drama. With a fine appearance and a beautifully
sonorous voice, he should have played sopiethino-
better. He had good chances, too. Nat Ooodwin
wanted him for an American tour, and Rankin
offered him the part of Macbeth with Nance O’Neil;
but Walter was unable to close with either offer.
He was bound by other contracts. When I think
of the puny importations who have starred here, I
want to know why Baker, a sound actor and’ a
Shakespearian scholar, plays breezy melodramatics, or
is allowed to “rest.”
“0.K.” : A recent “Poverty Point” notice of the death
°i. Edward Poole, “the Australian Roscius” of the
mid ’so’s, is not quite correct. His father (Pole)
was a tailor at Ballarat—not Melb.—when the aspir-
ing Edward got stage-struck, and it was at the
Montezuma Theatre in the mining towm that the
young man made his debut as a star. He had no
personal qualifications for playing hero parts. It
was only the old man’s money that kept him going
Nobody, save the proud paternal tailor, accented
Edward as the “Australian Roscius,” even in those
days, when the local profesh was in its infancy.
(Continued, on page 37.)


Oxford Pyjamas
A SPECIAL WEIGHT
AND EXTRA SPECIAL VALUE,
9/6
Comfortably cut, good quality ■ Oxford
Pyjamas—an imported special weight. Guar-
anteed for reliability in wear. Fast colors.
In those exceedingly smart, new, L-j-inch block
stripes, in colorings of Green and White, Pink
and White, Blue and' White, and Heliotrope
and White. Excellently made, with turn-
down collar, patch pocket, and strong girdle
at waist. Sizes 34, 36, 38, 40, 42 and 44
inches Chest Measurement, as illustra-
tion 9/6
SENT CARRIAGE PAID.
DAVID JONES LTD
Opp. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
.
¥
m
: ■
m
'
&
mi
fm.
liugelmann’s
Pure Herbal
SKin Soap.
“Beauty’s Aid.”
Free Sample sent on Receipt of
Twopenny Stamp.
Kugelinaun's !’ure Herbal Skin Soup may be ob-
ta.ded at all y,Clieintsts, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Au3sraflwra?''at 2/6 per box of three large
tablets. If not obtainable locally, send Postal Note
or Stamps of any State, to the value of 3/- (includ-
ing postage), when box will be posted per return
mail.
Sole Proprietors:
H. E. KUGELHANN & CO.,
Wholesale Druggists and Manutactuiers,
14-16 Queen Street, MELBOURNE; P tt Street,
SYDNEY; ami at ADELAIDE and - “BRISBANE.
Society
PENEOLD'S
WINES
A BIRD OF PASSAGE.
“How long do you. expect to stay in office, Mr.
Smith? ”
“Impossible to say. You see, I've only got a
Cook's tourist ticket .”
“Lex” : On July 3, 1912, a carcase butcher
named Field was asked a question as wit-
ness before the N.S.W. Pure Foods Commis-
sion. He refused to answer it, on the ground
that to do so would injure his carcase busi-
ness. Whereupon he was adjudged to be in
contempt of court. Dissatisfied, he has been
arguing the points in the law courts ever
since. The Full Court has now decided the
wrangle, and at the same time has smitten
with a severe club on the heads of long-
winded Royal Commissions. It was found
that Letters Patent created the P.F.C. on
July 3, 1911, with a life of four months.
Extensions were granted from time to time
by some kindly disposed person, but that
mild courtesy didn’t affect the Letters
Patent, which fatally petered out on Novem-
ber 2, 1911. As the carcase butcher shied at
the question put him on July 3, 1912. it fol-
lowed that he had escaped the penal powers
granted to the Royal Commission. To what
extent the doings of the Commission, which
had been sitting for two years after its first
appointment, were valid the Court didn’t say.
All it was asked to do was to settle the
argument between it and the stubborn car-
case trafficker, and it said that the Commis-
sion didn’t have a leg to fly with.
* * * *
The week’s ecclesiastical note:—
Australian Anglicans from all parts of the Com-
monwealth meet in Brisbane from September 9 to 17
for a Church Congress. The meetings, which differ
from synods in that any person may attend who
chooses, and that no legislation is attempted, are
held every five years, the last having been at Perth
in 1908. A similar body meets annually in Eng-
land. It was at one such gathering—at Birming-
ham in 1893-—that a relative of Oom Bill Lvne
caused a sensation. The present Bishop of Oxford—
the Liberal prelate who refused to join the protests
against Church Disestablishments, and voted for the
Welsh Disestablishment Bill in the Lords—was then
the Rev. Charles Gore, and was down to read a paper
at the congress. As Gore was called upon, the Rev.
Joseph Leycester Lyne—better known as “Father
Ignatius”—strode up the hall in the garb of a monk
and shouted: “In the name of Jesus Christ, I forbid
Charles Gore to speak.” The explanation lay in
Gore’s alleged unsoundness as to the precise time
Jonah remained inside the whale, or some similar
Biblical heresy. But Gore spoke, and is now a
Bbhop, while poor old Father Ignatius, after being
“inhibited” from preaching in nearly every diocese
in England, died some years ago in his North Welsh
“abbey,” of which he was at last almost the only
“monk.” The Brisbane congress will be chiefly
notable as being the largest assemblage of Anglican
gaiters on record in Australia. Twenty-four bishops
will attend, several of them from abroad. Among
the subjects for discussion is the good old “Social
Unrest.” The conservative party is not represented
on this topic, as the three selected readers of papers
—Bishop Mercer, of Tasmania ; Dean Stephen, of Mel-
bourne ; and Parson H. N. Baker, of Svdney—-are all
Labor supporters. Ex-Premier McGowen, of N.S.W.,
is to talk on “The Function of the State in the
Making of Citizens,” but is not consulted as an
authority on Sunday-schools. He is the only poli-
tician hilled-; and a solitary pressman-—L. V. Biggs,
of Melbourne Age —is also among the pro-
phets who are entered for the race. He
is down to explain how Australian conditions
affect church attendance. Mostly they seem to re-
duce it to vanishing point, so his task should be
easy. “Autonomy”—otherwise known as “the nexus
problem” l —is a star subject. It isn't something to
eat; but it comes practically to be something to
wear. Nationalist instincts among Australian-born
Ann’icans are kicking against their Church being
called “the Church of England in Australia,” and
being governed by English church law and Privy
Council decisions. They want an Australian name
and independence in government. North Queensland
and W.A. —the democratic centres —head the move-
ment, and the best of the imported clergy are on
the nationalist side; among them, Bi-hops Thomas,
of Adelaide: Goldsmith, of Bunbury (W.A.) ; Riley, of
Perth ; Feetham, of N.Q. ; White, of Carpentaria ; and
Archbishop Donaldson, of Brisbane. Donaldson is
president of the congress. But the silly vestments
squabble comes into the matter. Anglicans of the
“Low,” or Orange, variety are afraid that if the
Church becomes Australian instead of English, it
will have sense enough to let clergy wear any vest-
ments they please so long as their congregations
don’t object; and so they cling to the Engli-h con-
nection and to some aneffent Privy Council decisions
which stamp “vestments” (chasubles, dalmatics,
amices, fanons and other weird-sounding garments)
as illegal. Archgaiters Wright, of Sydney, who was
specially imported by Sydney “Low” churchmen to
put down vestments, heads the anti-Australian party.
A Sydney evening paper described him as “opposed
to the wearing of garments in church.” He takes a
very subordinate place in the Brisbane congress,
being put on to preach a perfunctory opening ser-
mon as Primate, but not being given any part in
the subsequent deliberations. But if “High” church-
men dominate this congress and the rest of Aus-
tralia, Sydney “Low” churchmen can afford to laugh
(for the present), as they absolutely control the
most populous and wealthy diocesa, with the Pri-
macy attached, and refuse to let ffito it any more
parsons, or to give much share in its govern-
ment to those already there. How is it that in
politics, ecclesiastical and secular, Sydney always
manages to be out of touch with the rest of the
Commonwealth? Probably because it is so engrossed
with Sydney that it hasn’t yet discovered Australia.
* * * *
Died at Richmond (Vic.) on August 26,
Mrs. M. A. Astley, who was born in Bligh-
street, Sydney, on the site of the Union
Club House, in 1834. In that year Robert
Campbell lived there—in one of the finest
Sydney houses of the time. He built it in
the '2o’s. On the death of Mrs. Campbell,
about 1860, the Union Club came into pos-
session. and for some years occupied the
place. Then it was demolished to make room
for - the present club-house—designed, with
the exception of the dining room, by W. W.
Wardell, the architect of St. Mary’s, in
Sydney, and the Governor-General’s resi-
dence in Melbourne. Campbell’s old store
still stands at the rear.
“Leeshore” : The wreck of the Devon, the
big Federal-Shire liner which ran ashore
under Pencarrow lighthouse, Wellington
(M.L.), was a curious verification of the
sailor’s belief in a vessel’s ill-luck. The last
voyage off the ship was dogged bv bad fortune
NOT TO BE BELIEVED.
PARISHIONER (to departing minister): “We’re all very sorry to lose you, Mr. Boodle."
RRV. FOODLE (modestly): “Never mind, Mrs. 'Foodie. I've no doubt you wilt get a
better man next, time.”
PARISHIONER : “Ah, no, Mr. Foodie. That’s just what the last minister said when he left."
which culminated in the illnes£ of the
master. He had to resign his charge to the
mate. On reaching Sydney, some of the
crew professed an objection to vaqcination
as a way of leaving the ship, and were
arrested as deserters or mutineer's or Uni-
tarians, or something, and sent to gaol for a
fortnight. While safely harbored the
Devon ran ashore, and their old shipmates
narrowly escaped drowning. It was hungry
luck for the mate to lose the ship on his first
run as master, but the curse had got work-
ing and wouldn’t be denied.
* * * *
Given up, even by Lloyd’s reinsurance
gamblers, the four-masted U.S. timber
schooner Americana, which, heavily laden,
left the Pacific slope for Sydney some months
back. It sailed in comnany with the Lyman D.
Foster, and the two were together 23 days
out. Then a devil of a zephyr blew the
L.D.F. ashore at Suva. The Americana,
with its crew of 15, presumably blew into
the Port o’ Davy Jones. The cook of the
boat fortunately missed his passage, owing
to a disagreement with the then skipp'er,
which ended in the sudden death of the
latter. Slushy was comfortably at anchor
in a San Francisco gaol cell, doing four
years for manslaughter, the night his old
pals fought their last fight with the infuri-
ated sea.
“History-cuss”: Modern journalists
prattle innocently about the Bulgars’ alleged
deeds being “unparalleled in history.” They
have short memories. It is only a, century
ago that the cultured French, on taking
Saragossa-—we have the sober Napier’s word
for it- —issued orders that every woman
the city, between the ages of 13 and 50,
should attend at. the Town Hall that even-
ing, and should leave all her clothing at
home ; and death was the penalty for failing
to be there. The English were never quite
so organised in their vices as the French.
But one need not go beyond Lever’s rollicking
novels to learn the fate of non-combatants
in a captured town. A besieged place was
encouraged to give in quietly and get a
lighter sentence, like a modern criminal. If
it held out, and then was found guilty—
that is, was taken by storm, at last —it had
to pay for giving extra trouble. The Bul-
garian general’s remark that his men couldn’t
be debarred from their little relaxations is
called cynical or brutal to-day; yet it has
been said in simple earnest by many a Brit-
ish commander up to Wellington’s time. It
is only since the long peace which followed
Waterloo that the illogical idea of fighting
with a gloved hand has come in—and it may
do Australian “peace” cranks good to re-
member that there is no assurance that it
has come in for good. In any case, as the
Bulgarian experience proves, it has only
come in patches.
One of. this world’s long-distance circum-
stances is the person, usually American, who
blows into these parts with an intimation
that he is walking round the world to win
a vast prize put up by Phineas Q. Spring-
buffer, of Syracuse (U.S.A.) ; that lie has
already done 175.39 G miles in 150 years
without anybody hearing of him ; and that
he lias only to do another 92,111 miles in
100 years to win the prize. He blows in,
he gets a paragraph in the local dailies, he
blows out again; and obscurity swallows
him un. Some people think he really
started from Strathfield and walked to Syd-
ney ; or that he lighted out from Heidelberg
and . reached Melbourne partly on foot and
partly by tramcar; or that he began his
world’s march from Cleveland and got nu
farther than Brisbane. Anyhow, he is here
again, and he is the same old weariness.
PROOF
POSITIVE.
SHE: “ Violet was
quite satisfied with her appearance."
HE : "How do you know?”
SHE: "She said she dianT care how she
looked. ”
THE SPHINX.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Percy Hunter, Director of the Immigration
and Tourist Bureau, returned to Sydney yesterday.
Mr. Hunter, during his travels, has seen much, learnt
much and formed many opinions. But Mr. Hunter
is even more secretive than the Premiers, who, in
their conferences, had the advantage of his experi-
ence. He would not talk when he arrived. Mr.
Hunter would not submit to the process of inter-
viewing. Mr. Hunter would not even indicate the
probable date of his return to England.—News item.
Mercy! Georgie
Percy— Porgie
Why not sav, Soon will be
Franklv, Landing.
„ , i Standing
Swankly, 0 n tfae Quay .
Which sad day what lightS)
You will leave us, Soot-lights—
And bereave us? Will be thrown!
Can’t you-— won’t you Georgie must not stand
really stay? alone.
London, O’erseas’
Undone, M.P.'s
Wails you now. Too. are here;
Paris Who but
Tarries, You —but
Like a cow, You —appear !
Chewing, Lead ’em —-
Mooing Feed ’em—
At the gate Let ’em scan
For her calf, astray—or Percy Hunter’s in the
late ! van !
Yet we Climb light!... .
Bet we Limelight—
Know full well, Empire calls !
Why you Maybe
Fly you Baby
For a spell, Holman falls !
Here —down under ; Take it,
Still, \yi wonder Make it
At the . tale you do not What you will;
tell! Percy is secretive still!
London,
Undone,
Sadly mourns;
Paris,
Carries
Crspe on thorns;
Vain their asking!
Limelight-basking,
Percy will not name the day ;
Will not mention
His intention
Whether he will go or stay ;
Will not hint in shameless print (in some secretive
guarded way)
When we may expect the Parting,
When the dark hour of his starting
Shall our faltering hearts dismay—
When the sad a rivarderci
Of our One and only Percy
Is to leave Life cold and grey!
N.S.W.
ALPHONSE PARBLEU.


Wild’s Hairdressing Rooms, 30 Upstairs,
Sydney Arcade, George and King Streets, Sydney, is
the proper place to go if you want the best of atten-
tion. Electric head and face massage done in the
latest American style. Hours of business: 8.30 to
0.30 ; Saturday close at 1 o'clock.*
a
&
©ST
&
a
<
V\M'*
l)
©OK]
■$
O.T. Improves all Drinks just
as Sauces Improve Food.
“NOVESTE” (Rested) MTS
Cool Summer Garments.
Warm weather is even now setting Jn—'very soon lighter clothing will
be essential.
The “NO-VESTE” Suits (our registered productions) are ideal for
summer wear. The coats are unlined and the trousers made as lightly ,
as possible. They will withstand regular washing and retain their *
shape. The style features of this season’s ready-to-wear suits accord
with the present fashions in tailoring. There are many new effects in
Light, Mid and Dark Grey, Navy Blue with White stripe, and various
Herringbone effects in Grey and Green Flannel.
25/-, 30/-, 32/6, 35/-, 37/6, 40j=, 42/-, 45/-
\
Patterns forwarded on request.
Please state chest, waist and inside leg measurements when ordering.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.,
Men’s Outfitters, '
309 and 311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
H-
m
'Jr
\
“Binnacle”: An unconfirmed London
cablegram says that the British Board of
Trade has now decided that officers in the
mercantile marine sitting for higher grade
certificates won’t have to pass color vision
tests. Just what is meant isn’t clear. When
some years ago an _ aged and infirm and
almost blind pilot piled a P. and O liner
on Point Nepean (Port Phillip Headsi
ridiculous and stringent precautions were
t3.k6D, and tiiG l>oard doubled its eyesight
tests, for everybody except pilots. A curious
feature about these tests is that none are
required as to the eyesight of the man at
the wheel or the look-out for’ard The
whole responsibility is throwm on the officer
on the bridge. If his vision fails him sud-
denly at a pinch trouble is almost certain
to arise owing to no auxiliary vision bein«'
hand)’. He stands to lose his job ■ the eo°
stands to lose its ship ; those on board stand
to lose their lives.
* * * *
“J.R ”: Who ever met the soldier or sailor
who didn t dream of an army or a fleet as
the case might be, which was entirely free
from Parliamentary “meddling”’ \'nd so
it was quite in the picture for Admiral
King-Hall to say, the other dav: “The Aus-
tralian Navy would only be wrecked if they
ah owed politics to enter into its administra-
tion. lhe Sydney Telegraph proceeded
to apply the platitude as follows : -
This is a danger in all countries where the War
Office is, and has to be, the creature of the partv in
power and under the system of Caucus government
accentuated^ 6 7 UP here the Position is
And yet, as a matter of fact, there is no
country in which the War Office (and Ad-
miralty) are other than the creatures of
the party in power. The armed forces of
the nation are in every case absolutely at
the disposal of the Executive Government
Another absurdity which the Telegraph
permitted itself in the same article was
this: —
The traditions of the British Parliament cause
political questions to immediately disappear and the
whole House to stand behind the Government of the
day whenever the national safety is involved.
Where does one find the traditions? To go
back than the American War
, t , he^ e was a stron S opposition to
fiord North s Government kept alive by the
speeches of the elder Pitt. Hostile Politicians
were even suspected of supplying the enemy
with information, and a YYhig general would
CURIOUSLY
KIND.
"'They never took
their eyes off me
the whole evening.”
“How good of them! Consider how little else
you had on."
throw up his cocked hat when a Toly
general was boa ten* When the wax
with France broke out in 1793 Fox led a
solid Whig Opposition in favor of—literall '
peace at any price. When the Crimea, i
'»ar broke out. Cobdeu and Bright led a
small but solid Opposition, which ultimately
smashed the Aberdeen Government. The
flouse of Commons has always had a peace
Pffrty, even when it was fighting Charles I.
and kicking out James 11. The Campbell-
Bannermans and Lloyd-Georges and Mor-
leys of 2899-1900 have bobbed up pretty re-
gularly all through English history.
The apti-vaccinationists chortle over a
pamphlet just issued by Statistician Knibbs
showing that in the United Kingdom 36.48 S
vaccinated people had small-pox in a given
period and 3545 of
them died. The eye
of the anti-vaccina-
tionist rests gleefully
on those figures, and
Dr. Paton and the rest
are asked what they
think about their old
“scare” yarns now.
What Paton and the
rest probably think is
that most of the “vac-
cinated” people hadn’t
been vaccinated for
10 or 20 or 30 years,
and that immunity
wasn’t claimed if the
operation was over
seven years old. And,
anyhow, while the
death-rate among the
vaccinated —-no matter
how ancient the vac-
cination —w as only
9.72 per cent, of those
attacked, among the
unvaccinated, accord-
ing to the same
Knibbs, it was 36.80
per cent.; so that any
old sort of vaccination
is nearly four times
better than no vac-
cination at all. Also
the dreadful news is
furnished that in Yic-
toria in 21 years there were five
deaths from small-pox and 14 from
the effects of vaccination —which
probably looks serious until you
remember that if there hadn’t been
any vaccination there would prob-
ably have been 5000 deaths from
small-pox. The same Knibbs has
somewhere else pointed out that
there were 615 deaths at child-
birth in 1911 alone; but nobody
has so far been mad enough to suggest the
abolition of childbirth in consequence.
* * * *
Melbourne will have to get along without
a State Governor on the Carnival job when
next Cup week comes to pass. John Fuller,
wrapned Id thought, slipped quietly away
by the Adelaide express las£ week to catch
the P. and O. steamer for England. The
Fuller Ex. has three months’ leave of ab-
sence. The first official announcement of
his being about to go away stated that his
Lady would “probably” return with him,
but "the record of his departure made no allu-
sion to this interesting probability. Any-
how’, they will both be missing from the
festive Cup scene unless her tall, blonde
Ladyship is going to await her John on the
wharf ready to hustle him aboard the next
outgoing boat.
THE HIDDEN MEANING.
DOCTOR : “ You will be vaccinated on the arm,
I suppose?”
PATIENT (suggestively): "I thought it was
calf lymph.”
“Brolga” : Are these defence preparations
all flam, or does Australia really want us
to learn how to use a rifle? Up here in the
North of Queensland, where a few good
marksmen may be a valuable possession
some day, about 50 of us, mostly young
farmers and permanent settlers in the dis-
trict, decided that it was up to us to do
something. YY r e couldn’t join a cadet corps,
and there was nothing else for it but a rifle
club. So we sent in our application—this
was last April—and were told that we
should be gazetted as soon as the proposed
site was inspected. Weeks passed, with the
enthusiasm of some of the 60 oozing out, as
it always will when nothing is done, and
then the Department was stirred up. The
reply was to the effect that the business was
being rushed along furiously, but that an
inspection couldn’t be made till November.
Of course the 60 ought to be just as enthu-
siastic in November as they were in March;
but I put it to Millen, Minister for Defence:
Supposing he had got hold of a man and
persuaded him to buy a homestead lease at
Bourke in March, what would he think of
himself and his chance of earning a com-
mission if he then let the negotiations go
cold and didn’t broach the subject again till
November?
* * * #
Almost any old gentleman, when roused,
will throw out his chest and tell you he was
a d—d sight happier when he worked 14
hours out of every 24 for an absurdly small
wage, and had to walk five miles to and
from work. If the listener is inhuman
enough to doubt him, he will try to have an
epileptic fit by way of proving his boast.
The harmless brasrging of elderly gentlemen ,
is all very well in suburban drawing-rooms,
after business hours; but it is annoying tm
get it during the sitting of a Wages Board,
which exists to collect facts and serviceable
information. Last week, the Miners’ Wages
Board, sitting at Newcastle (N.S.W.), got
hold of a mining superintendent, who in-
sisted on telling the members how much more
he enjoyed life when he was a miner, and
how absurdly safe the job was. He wouldn’t
admit there was any daneer in mining; he
was “as hanpy as a lark” while he was at
it; and he was often tempted to go back to
it. Of course, talk of that sort is no earthly
use to anyone, and the time of the Board
was squandered. These old persons forget
that it wasn’t the hard work, the low pay
and the five-mile walk to the job and home
again which made them feel so glad. It
was just Youth—glorious Youth. Even a
kitten is full of joy, while a grandmother
cat is staid and occupied with sad reflec-
tions, and sits gloomily on its tail. It isn’t
the necessity for toil, and the poor pay, and
the long tramp outward in the morning to its
plate of milk, and the long tramp home to
its mouse in the evening that makes the
kitten glad. It is glad simply because it is
a kitten.
The want of confi-
dence cackle in the
House of Reps. is only
one way of suspending
the “business of the
country.” There are
others. For instance,
we are gravely warned
that, “While the Brit-
ish legislators are in
Australia members of
the Federal Parlia-
ment on both sides of
the Chamber will sink
party differences in
order to make the
stay of the party as
pleasant as possible.
Several members of
the House of Reps,
have announced that
they intend travelling
as much as possible
with the visiting poli-
ticians.” One time the
question of even a
single member being
absent from the House
when his vote comes
due is discussed as a
matter of national im-
portance. A little
while later dozens of
them can go jaunting
around, and their ab-
sence makes no differ-
ence. They sink their
differences with a view
to. sinking food and
drink. Their political
disturbance is to end
for a time in smokes,
partly provided by
private subscription.
Dr. Barrett and
George Fairbairn, of
Melbourne, are put-
ting £2OOO and £5OO
respectively into the
iLopctUVCIJ IULU Lilt*
business of the country, it seems. They will
help to fill the flowing bowl wherein the dif-
ferences of Labor and Liberal parties will be
temporarily sunk.
“Chasuble”: Consternation seizes Mel-
bourne Baptists—Fred Spurr resigns from
Collins-street, after four years of triumph !
He has swelled too big. London did not
appreciate him at the right value until he
captured Melbourne; now he “goes Home”
to some good billet. Yes, Home! English
clerics in Australia, be they Clarkes, Spurrs
or Wrights, alwavs have their eyes in the
backs of their heads. So Leyton Richards
of the Collins-street Independent, goes ’Ome
too, after only three years. What encourage-
ment is it for Australian college men when
they must climb an impossible greasy pole
before they can reach the prize on top? The
Collins-street Baptist has imported all its
pastors: Taylor, Hill. Martin. Chapman,
Carey. Spurr. So with the Collins-street
Independent with its Henderson. Hebditeh,
.Tones, Hamer, Bevan and Richards. Give
it a rest! Or go the whole hog and import
our editors and Judges and Prime Ministers.
BEYOND CORRUPTION.
Reference was also made to the repeated public
statement by Mr. Wade that during the last year the
Government had only appointed two new policemen.
“The increased expenditure on the police force last
year,” said Mr. Gann, “was over £31,000. If two
policemen got that, they must be doing very well.”
SYDNEY CROOK : “Now I arsk yer , wot
CHARNCE 'as a ’onest take-down of squariu
a guy like THAT?”
WHEN THE AD. IS YOUNG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
meet eS rw C nPnfl e }i dark young woman > 45 - wishes to
meet respectable young man, view above.
Advertisement in Melbourne Age.
The flying crows of Time have left their footprints
near her eyes;
But middle age has mellowed her, and she is kind
and wise;
It matters not that Autumn is to her Life’s cheerful
Spring ;
I d rather wed her than some bird who’s still upon
the wing ;
Some tender, flutt’ring thing
Who wants to own and boss the earth and social
top-notes sing.
Take not the young bird from the nest, if you’ve a
tender heart,
For young things want a splendid nest and high
roosts at the start;
They dream at dizzy altitudes and look with lofty
scorn
Upon the small suburban cots men think tliev would
adorn.
As sure as you were born,
Mama’s soft nestling will regard that cot with lofty
scorn.
Oh, let them flap their youth away if you would
wed in peace;
Be wise and let the twenties go. Wait till the
thirties cease
Before you let your fond eye stray amongst the
chatt’ring flock;
They do not squawk so loudly now—they do not flap
and mock.
Just pick her from the flock.
They’re ready for the cages now. (New flappers are
in stock).
But if you care to wait until the first few forties
go,
Why then your eager, buxom mate will fly down to
you, so !
If you don’t care to coo and woo with sugar and
with wheat,
Then here’s your pretty, sober mate announcing her-
self, “Tweet!”
It’s winning and it’s sweet —
That trusting echo of late Spring—that matrimonial
“Tweet I”
N.S.W.
FANCIER.


THE WAGE-EARNERS.
FOREMAN COOK: “We’re all ri gnt as long as there’s no work doin’. Pars the fish sandwiches along


THE MIDDLEMAN.
This is “Hop’s” deep-breathing competition. The N.S.W. State Treasurer has breathed into the ears of his colleagues that there is no more money for
railway building, and he doesn’t know where to get any. The colleagues are breathing into the ear of an English firm of capitalists, asking it to get the money
and supervise N.S.W. railway construction for 5 per cent, commission. The money-lender —on the left — is waiting to have his ear breathed into by the
English capitalist. It is all breathing, and ears.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
DR. SHELDON’S DIGESTIVE TABULES
are a positive cure for Indigestion, Flatulence. Heart-
burn, Acidity of Stomach, and all Stomach Troubles.
Price, Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. per tin. Obtainable
everywhere.*
AN EPILEPTIC FIT.
A famous London physician, who for years
made a study of this disease, has, after a number of
experiments, found a prescription which affords re-
lief in almost a marvellous manner. This has been
put on the market by Mr. I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceu-
tical Chemist, of Belfast, under the name of
“Ozerine,” and the number of unsolicited testimonials
received speak well for its efficiency as a remedy
against this appalling disease. Your chemist can
easily get it for you.*
WORLD-FAMED
F or
QUALITY.
HATS.
For
DURABILITY.
EVERY DAY
mote people are proving that
is the best washing preparation for
blankets, flannels, woollens and dainty
fabrics. Lux is scientific in its methods.
Lux coaxes rather than forces the dirt
from the clothes. Lux shortens the
work at the washtub —lengthens the
life of the clothes.
WON’T
SHRINK
WOOLLENS.
LEV KK rsKWI f IRRS
limited, syunev)
r
*
/»*» *
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The daily press is, at times, an unmiti-
f ated staggerer. Sydney Sun, of August 2.
announced that Georre Reid —of Sydney and
the circumference —had given a dinner in
honor of Whitelaw Reid, ex-Ambassador of
the U.S., and even the fact that Whitelaw
Iteid has been buried quite a while didn’t
give it pause. And, on the 28th, it an-
nounced (by cable) the death of “Bernard
Quaritch, the noted London bookseller,” who
nassed out, at Hampstead, on December 17,
’SO9 —over 13 years ago.
JUSTICES POWERS, DUFEY AND RICH
dispense justice at the Australian High Court.
A droll story is told of the late Bill Knox
by a man who was a fellow-voyager with
him from England to Australia at the time
of the Melbourne financial crisis. At Port
Said a cablegram informed Knox that a lot
of banks were closed for reconstruction, and
investments in general had gone to the
deuce. He was posed on the hearthrug in
the smoking-room of an hotel when he took
the terrible message out of his pocket to
read it once again. Gazing earnestly at his
companion, Bill removed his square hat,
wiped his brow with a handkerchief, and
said: “Sir, as I stand here, I believe 1 am a
ruined man.” The ingenuousness of Knox’s
egotism was beautifully expressed in that
speech. He felt that the ruination of Knox
was as tremendous an event as the down-
fall of Napoleon at Leipsic.
Mr. Miller, a word in your ear. Have you ever
sat back during the “Smokeoh” interval, reflecting
on the change brought about by “Smith’s, the Sack
Specialists,” in the calico and hessian (BAG) indus-
try ? You will doubtless reniember the dark period,
when you wanted your bags to look a picture; and,
instead, had to put up with an atrocity that burst
on the slightest provocation. Have you seen the
perfect work turned out by “Smith’s” ? Possibly
not. Well, grab your pen and ask them to submit
proofs. Be up to date. Here’s the address (do it
now) : T. Smith, Ltd., Sussex-street, Sydney.*
A brief obituary :
Died in England last week Michael Maybrick,
known to and beloved by millions as “Stephen
Adams.” He was a prolific composer of popular
music, much of it of the “sacred song” type, such as
“The Holy City,” “The Throne of Grace” and “He
Wipes the Tear from Every Eye.” Probably his
most successful song was “The Holy City,” which
is said to have brought him over £40,000 in roy-
alties. He was a man of very lovable nature, with
a deep, wide streak of religion in his composition;
but, like some other great musicians, he had also a
big streak of the wild beast in him. His brother
was .Tames Maybrick, who died of poison in 1889.
It was the untiring efforts of “Stephen Adams”
which obtained the evidence which led to the arrest
of the dead man’s wife, the notorious Mrs. May-
brick. The trial of this woman, who was an Ameri-
can, created a tremendous sensation. She was found
guilty and sentenced to death. An uproar ensued.
WATTLE DAY.
The great Australian festival, celebrated daily.
“WOT'LI you 'ave ”
The United States went mad. Thousands of Ameri-
can women tried to force the United States Govern-
ment to take action, even to the extent of thr aten-
ing to invade Canada, to secure the woman’s release.
Uncle Sam declined to make an ass of himself on,this
colossal scale. lie didn’t mind being a donkey on
a small scale, but he objected to this frightful ex-
travaganza, and just sat tight. So Mrs. Maybrick
went to the condemned cell. But she did not hang
—at the last moment the sentence was commuted
to penal servitude, and in 1904 she was liberated
under a ticket of leave on condition she took part
in no demonstrations and wrote no book. She went
to the United States, and a publishing firm an-
nounced her book. The British Government appplied
for her extradition, and, to avoid arrest, she returned
to England, and the book was never published.
“Stephen Adams” brought forward a mass of new
evidence, and wanted badly to get the ticket-of-leave
cancelled and the lady sent back to her cell, but the
heart-sick British Home Office declined to be aware
of his existence.
Ambrose Patterson,
the painter, Victoria’s
crafty exponent of
color and movement,
secured a commission
once to paint a very
lengthy and wealthy
suburbanite. Patterson
himself is a lank
brush, shooting up be-
yond 6ft. lin. lie
was rather priding
himself on having been
given this commission,
bearing in mind the
great pressure of ar-
tists round every pos-
sible job in Australia.
Eventually, however,
the sitter exnlained.
“I was a long time
lookin’ for a sootable
hartist,” he said. “I’m six-foot two an a
’arf, and till I struck you, I hadn’t seen a
painter what had enough height to do a
full length of me.”
Ancient James Balfour, M.L.C., pre-
sident of Melbourne’s Council of Churches,
has passed out, and his painful holi-
ness and aggressive integrity as a
Christian, a politician and a man of
business were obituarily noticed at
great length in the dailies. Not a word was
said about his land-boom past. Five and
twenty years ago the holy man was some-
thing of a Get-rich-quick Balfour, and the
financial companies whereof he was chair-
man fell to pieces when the Melbourne boom
busted. Angry shareholders reviled the
name of Balfour. It smelt almost as badly
as the name of Matthew Davies, and rather
worse than that of Jimmy Munro. Rut
whereas the other fellows fell out of public
life when they overreached themselves, Bal-
four contrived to remain standing. The
pillar of respectability lost a lot of its gleam-
ing whiteness, but it stuck to its position.
Perhaps James Balfour was more honest
than some of the other fortune-hunters, and
not less honest than any of them. Anyway,
he escaped ruin. The Lord advised him to
shift his liabilities, and he got somebody else
to “carry the baby.”
Passed out at Badgery’s Creek (N.S.W.)
on August 24, Mrs. Matha Brabyn Shad-
low, aged 77, a grand-daughter of Aus-
tralia’s old chaplain, Samuel Marsden. She
was the second daughter of the parson’s
only son, Charles Simeon. Her mother was,
before her marriage Elizabeth Howard
Brabyn, the daughter of Captain John
Brabyn, of the smellful 102nd Regiment. The
late Mrs. Shadlow was born on Marsden’s
historic old homestead at St. Mary’s. It
was from this holding that the first com-
mercial exportation of Australia wool to
England was made by Marsden in the ship
Admiral Gambier, which sailed on Novem-
ber 28. 1811 —years before John Macarthur
started to send wool for sale. The Sydney
Gazette of April 37, 1813, says : “The wool
sent in the Admiral Gambier, consisting of
10 or 12 packs, has been sold, and averaged
ss. a lb.” How that price would make
squatterdom’s mouth water to-day!
“Melb” : Let others write of Knox’s exit:
me of his entry. He followed the bad old
principle that a man must not enter public
life until he has made a pile. Knox emerged
with a Grand Reception in the Melbourne
Town Hall. Two thousand invites to every-
body. Me included. Men asked. “Who the
deuce, is Knox?” but of course they went.
Me included. Knox stood at the door,
and shook hands, while a fugleman said
“Mr. Smith—Mr. Knox.” “Glad to see. you,
sir.” Then the strangers sat down to Knox’s
churchwarden pipes and bottled beer. Then
the fugleman again. “Order, gents. The
Toast of Our Host.” “For he’s a jolly good
fallow, and so say all of us.” Me included.
Then mysterious paragraphs. Mr. Knox
would contest a constituency. Like
Crummies, he couldn’t understand how
these things got into the papers. But they
did ; and Knox got into Parliament. Weli,
he was a good fellow. And always very
religious. I think it was he who proposed
that they should open proceedings every day
with prayers! Which they still do.
Gone where halos take the place of broad-
brimmed hats, William Knox, mining mag-
nate and something of a nolitician. In his
youth Willy—afterwards Bill—was a clerk
in the Bank of Victoria, but there wasn’t
enough coin in that for a born money-
spinner, and, after . lie had tried and
failed as a saddler’s ironmonger, some
parish connection or other got him
the job of secretary to the Broken
Hill Prop, when that co. was formed
by a mostly-Caledonian crowd of West
Darling squatters. Willy Knox’s name
wasn’t on the prospectus of the co.;
Charles Chappie, of Silverton, was the first
secretary, but as soon as the office was
shifted to Melbourne Knox took charge. His
first big coup .was the flotation of
the British “pup” in London for over half a
million. After that he took *» hand in the
Mount Lyell float, and presently, as his
credit balance swelled, he left off being sec-
JOHN VERRAN, Leader of the S.A.
Labor Party.
retary and became an inflated director of
the things he had clerked for —including the
Bank of Victoria. Incidentally he joined
Schlapp in the business of mine-dealing,
Schlapp beipg the first Yankee metallurgist
imported by ibe B. 11. Prop. Mostly with
the idea of impressing the fact that he had
left his clerking far behind him, Knox took
his wonderful hat with the racecourse rim
into the Vic. House of Rich Landlords, and
then his inclinations carried him on to the
Federal House of Reps. But by this time
lie was a sick man, and he dropped out of
Parliament two or three years ago, leaving
no hole to speak of behind him. He was
little more than 60 when he died during a
visit to England.
THE COMING OF PEACE.
Austrian official quarters believe that the Powers'
action against Turkey will consist in threatening the
Porte with financial embarrassment, unless the Treaty
of London is observed.
The last straw--from the game and still-
surviving Turk's point of view.
Suggested epitaph for (he tombstone of
Wm, Knox, who started as a clerk in the
Bank of Victoria, and made a fortune by
handling more big mining concerns than any
other man in Australia: “He knew when to
sell.”
“T. 0.1.”: Who was I’arkes’s “withered
tarantula” (R. 28/8/T3) ? Or did the vitu-
perative old man have more than one? I’ve
always understood that that was his pet
name, not for Joey Creer, but for R. C.
Luscombe, who represented Northumberland
in 1882-5, and was afterwards made In-
spector of I’.iestalls or Scaffolds or some-
thing.
Died in a palatial house on Neutral Bay,
Sydney, one day recently, Edwin Horace
Trudgeon Bottrell, aged 66 years. Away
back in the ’7o’s Bottrell and one R. H.
Gilbert established themselves as “surgeons,"
and had “consulting rooms” next door to the
Barley Mow pub, in Castlereagh-street. The
business of these pioneers must have flour-
ished exceedingly, for. in 1882, the pair
removed into more fashionable quarters
in Liverpool-street, where daily the
postman labored under a heavy load
of mail matter. The pair “prac-
tised” until 1896, when they were
succeeded by another “medical practitioner.”
Bottrell, as he made his pile, put it into
bricks and mortar. Gilbert, if he ever
existed, kept out of the public eye.
Squatter Andrew Tennant, of S.A.. who
left more than half a million behind him
the other day. was a fine judge sheep,
cattle, horses and men. On the West Coast
in the early days the Tennants were neigh-
bors of the Hamps, another pioneering fam-
ily, the head of w T hich was murdered by
the blacks. In his youth a grandson (W.
E. Hamp) shepherded for the late Andrew.
One day Tennant remarked of the shep-
herd boy: “That young man will go high
in the business. He minds sheep so well.''
Hamp got as high as any man in the busi-
ness in S.A., but the game worried him into
an early tomb. At 40 he looked 60. and
after the tragic death of his close friend.
Julius Grunike. he aged fast, and, when he
died recently, looked an old man. Hamp
read whilst shepherding, and had a better
head for apt ouotations than any other man
in the State. Tennant was of a philosophical
turn. One day, whilst he was taking an
afternoon nap in his city home, they
awakened him to tell him that Port Aug-
usta had telegraphed that one of his stations
was burning. “Well,” said the old man
testily, “I can't put it out from here, can I?"
The N. S. Wales Lands Department’s old
friend. Wm. Nicholas Willis, has just had a
book published in London —“Western Men
and Eastern Morals.” On quitting Aus-
tralia Wm. Nicholas went more or less into
the horse trade and pervaded Batavia. Sin-
gapore and other parts where the pretentious
nigger potentate and the truculent
Chow merchant pays big prices for
“Walers.” There Wm. Nicholas, being a
stern moralist, felt his soul scarified when
he saw his brother-white making a tempo-
rary alliance with a brown beauty —and
Wm. Nicholas’s London book is the result.
THE HIGH THINKER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Cook : “We shall strike at abuses wherever and
whenever thev rear their ugly heads. We are against
favoritism, against privilege and preference. We are
for freedom, a square deal, and just relations between
all numbers of this community.”
Mr. Pace: “Oh, stop it!”
—Argus Parliamentary Report.
The thinker of high thoughts got up and spoke a
bunch of them —-
Chicanery, crook dealing and all fraud he did con-
demn.
“We stand,” he said, for uprightness,
For freedom of the stump and press—
For all things sweet and square!” he cried.
“Yes —we’re the purest goods outside
The New Jerusalem!”
And then some silly fool broke in the stream of
speech upon ;
Rocking with sudden, vulgar mirth, he bellowed,
“Oh, go lion !”
In earnest tones the great soul spoke of blessing and
uplift,
Of holy ways, and ways in which some sinful persons
drift;
He did a balm-and-honev preach
On hopes he had of heights to reach.
“All craft and meanness we must try,”
He said, and wiped a moistured eye,
“From public life to shift.”
A coarse voice crashed across his speech, with loud
mirth megaphoned—
The voice of one who rudely roared, “Oh, don’t!”
and, grinning, groaned.
In psalmish strain the preacher proach of True Re-
form, and sich ;
Bright, new remarks on virtue did his passioned
prose enrich.
“Yes, we stand up for Freedom—now!”
He yelled. “For flag-flap rights”—and how
His helners raised the roof when he
Cried that the car of Liberty
Was wheelless in the ditch ! . . . .
Vet Freedom profits little if, when men with Brains
orate,
Rude, coarse, bold, common, jeering blokes bawl out,
“Aw —ain’t he great?”
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


k
pk
V
!»
m
M
m
M
0//^
M
h K
'
m
f %}} &
m
••V,
*K
••-
fS
fef
m
mm
f. 2
:;v V
I*4
m
2£
II
Hi
?mmmp
m
<Z2>
U
C
m
V
ici
's■}*
m
m
1 M
“It is Always Safe to go on Form.”
I“N the racing world “ form ”is just as important as in matters sartorial. Just now, with the
approach "of Springtime, man, like the fair sex, has to look to his raiment. As far as the
former is concerned we confidently claim that we are unsurpassed in the matter of Cut,
Quality and Finish. We quote Austral Suits to measure —635., 705., 755., 84s. ; hand-made,
905., 955., 105 s. and 115 s.
Send for patterns —over 1000 materials to select from —and our new 120-page catalogue
of Everything for Mens and Boys Wear.
GOW I N G BRO S,
PIONEER DISTRIBUTORS OF AUSTRALIAN GOODS,
484, 486, 488 & 490 George Street ; & 3,5, 7, 9. 11, 13, 15 & 17 Royal Arcade, Sydney,
ALL ORDERS CARRIAGE PAID IN AUSTRALIA.


TO STOREKEEPERS
Why Carry Large Stocks of Single Cylinder Double Acting Power Pumps, when we can deliver
one or one dozen as you order from our stock ?
Write to use for' prices on the DEANE Model A., Single Cylinder Double Acting Power Pumps
with Brass-lined Cylinders. ’
AGENTS in every State. If not in stock in your State, apply to —
SIMPSON BROTHERS, 32-34 Clarence Street, Sydney.
COUNTRY AGENTS REQUIRED.
(I
SISKOL ” ROCKDRILLS.
“SISKOL" HAMMERDRILLS.
"SISKOL” COALCUTTERS.
International Channelling Machines Ltd «
DIERCKS & CO. PROP. LTD., SS s rS?i"Sf., s ly^r“”'
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The National Bank of Maoriland :—-
Net To Re- Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1900. . £42,348 8 p.c. = £20,000 £22,348 £87,509
1901.. 55,785 10 „,, 25,000 30,785 118,294
1902.. 64,933 10 „„ 25,000 39,933 158,227
1903.. 54,533 10 „ „ 25,000 29,533 187,760
1904.. 60,643 12 ~ ~ 30,000 30,643 218,403
1905.. 49,907 12 „ „ 30,000 19,907 238,310
1906.. 50,857 12 ~ ~ 30,000 20,857- 259,167
Premiums on new share issue 50,000 309,167
1907.. 64,901 12 p.c. = 38,750 26,151 335,318
1908.. 71,045 12 „„ 45,000 26,045 361,363
1909.. 75,423 13 ~ ~ 48,750 26,673 388,036
1910.. 72,374 12 ~ „ 45,000 27,374 415,410
Premiums on new share issue 62,500 477,910
1911.. 79,594 13 p.c. = 57,500 22,094 500,004
1912.. 91,260 13 „ „ 65,000 26,260 526,264
1913.. 95,492 13 „ „ 65,000 30,492 556,756
Like most of the other English banks doing business
in Australia and Maoriland, this one has been push-
ing the foreign-exchange business for ail it is worth ;
and it is worth a lot. Everything has helped them —-
even the Dominion’s vices. For when the Dominion
airily borrows another few millions, those few
millions don’t come out in coin—they invariably
come out in goods. And when the interest has to be
paid, the Dominion ships goods to do it. The banks
pay one end and collect the other, and mostly they
can pay each end with what they collect there. In
other words, very little money goes backwards and
forwards. Mcßrown, in Dunedin, sells Smith, in
London, a thousand frozen lambs; and the bank
undertakes to send money to pay Mcßrown, and
charges for doing it. At the same time, McJones, of
Auckland, has bought 100,000 rat-traps from Robin-
son, of Birmingham ; and the bank undertakes to
send money to Robinson, and charges for doing it.
All that really is done is to send McJones’s money
from Auckland to Mcßrown in Dunedin, and Smith’s
money from London to Robinson in Birmingham.
The development of Maoriland’s frozen meat and other
export trade has enormously increased this exceed-
ingly profitable banking side-line —so increased it, in
fact, that it is scarcely a side-line any longer. This
is, no doubt, the explanation of much, if not most,
of the big spring in profits during the last few years.
And there has been a good deal of profit that the
table doesn’t show ; for £15,000 a year has been
written off premises for some time past.
Next come to some of the details of the balance-
sheet :-
Liabilities.
1903. 1912. 1913.
Notes .. .. £257,104 £268,270 £257,985
Bills, etc 308,313 837,349 1,058,781
Deposits . . . . 2,838,524 4,357,926 4,229,440
Assets.
Liquid assets . . 1,578,487 2,417,691 2,318,934
Advances.. .. 2,198,095 4,031,787 4,236,735
Premises, etc. . . 77,619 78,330 86,292
Deposits have shrunk, and probably because it isn’t
likely that they will be plentiful at a cheap rate for
some time to come, it was lately decided to increase
the capital. At the end of the co.’s year (March 31)
there were 200,000 shares of £7 10s. paid to
£2 10s. ( £500,000). Authority was got to issue
another 200,000, and half of these have lately been
offered to, and taken by, old shareholders at a pre-
mium of £1 ss. This adds £250,000 to the capital
and £125,000 to the very solid reserves. Incident-
all}', it greatly strengthens the position from the
depositors’ point of view, though it was by no
means weak previously; and it also puts the bank
into a comfortable position to take a good deal more
business.
Elder, Smith and Lo.. Ltd (Adelaide),
pastoral finance and woolbroking people:—*■
Written To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. On. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1901.. 25,283 9 p.c. = 17,100 5000 3,183 38,637
1902.. 28,018 9 ~ „ 17,100 6396 4,»82 43,219
1903.. 29,964 9 „ „ 17,100 5000 7,864 51,083
1904.. 33,967 9 „ ~ 17,100 5000 11,867 62,950
1905.. 36,532 10 „ ~ 19,000 4000 13,532 76,482
1906.. 45,940 10 ~ ~ 19,000 3000 23,940 100,422
7907.. 60,674 10 „ ~ 19,667 1500 39,507 139,929
1908.. 43,457 10 „ ~ 25,000 18,457 158,386
1909.. 51,266 10 ~ „ 25,000 28,266 184,652
1910.. 59,521 10 „ „ 29,991 29,530 214,182
1911.. 73,784 10 „ „ 30,000 43,784 257,966
1912.. 60,969 10 „ „ 31,661 29,308 287,274
1913.. 79,206 10 „ „ 35,000 44,206 331,480
S. Aus. has been having a fine time the last few
years, and the profits of this old-established co. show
it. The wool clip has been good, prices have been
high, iambings have been satisfactory ; and the wheat
cocky has been browsing in almost as rich a patch
of clover as the bigger wool cocky. All this has
meant not only bigger commissions and very few
bad debts, but also probably the recovery of a good
many debts that had been written off as bad. Yet,
though it had begun to think otherwise, S. Aus. is
still liable to be hit by drought, as it has been re-
minded by something very like one which has been
plaguing the State this year. And when a really bad
drought comes along it isn’t a matter of knocking
out the profits of such a co. as this for one year;
the effect lasts until the flocks can be bred up again.
The very experienced people who run this business
know as well as anyone how uncertain the industry
is, even though lots of things have been done to make
it less uncertain than it used to be; hence, though
there has been year after year of great prosperity,
no larger dividend than 10 p.c. has been paid, and
when a while ago paid capital was very properly
increased from £190,000 to £350,000, there was
no talk of bonus shares —-it was hard cash that was
called up. There is a yarn told of Willy Mortlock, the
rich S. Aus. squatter who died the other day—he
had a fair holding in this co., too. “I don’t want
to make money,” he said, “but every day I pray
that' I may be able to hang on to what I’ve got.”
That was rather characteristic of the fairly-rich S.
Australian. Elder Smith’s probably want to make
money, but they certainly want to keep their cap-
ital. There are only four directors, but they can
muster about 270 years among them; and that per-
haps accounts for it. Anyway, the business has been
made very solid. Goodwill ( £ 40,856) was written
off years ago. Premises and plant, which cost
£211,385, have been steadily written down to
£133,948. (Nothing is shown in the table as
written off during the last few years, as premises
and 'plant depreciation is charged direct to profit
and loss.) Finally, while in the past eight fat vears
£211.319 has been paid to shareholders in a steady
and satisfying 10 p.c., no less than £254.998 has
been put by, in addition to what has been written off
or drooped into the invisible contingency account.
Altogether an excellent record of prudent manage-
ment. And the policy is right absolutely. For tbo
co. has to protect a heap more than its own capital
at risk in this erratic pastoral business. Here are
some more figures :• —•
1901. 1911. 1912. 1913.
£ £
Deposits, etc. 554,426 1,715,863 1,764,141 1,651,679
Other liabilities 97,320 280,959 264,439 115,237
Premises, plant 54,136 133,024 144,101 133,948
Govt. Stock,
cash . . 170,435 475,393 421,498 579,499
Advances, etc. 489,586 1,656,905 1,898,750 1,644,386
Other assets 177,626 304,466 ,218,166 108,062
Deposits, etc., are i 11,651,679 ; and practically the
same amount is out in advances and other shrinkable
investments. The figures not only justify but demand,
a big lay-by in prosperous times. The other shrink-
able investments, by the way, include shares in some
cos., including an offshoot —Elder’s Metal and Mer-
cantile Prop., Ltd.—formed lately with head-office
in Melbourne to handle, among other things, the
ore-buying business which the eo. has carried on for
many years at Broken Hill and elsewhere.
Pitt, Son and Badgery, Ltd. (Sydney),
station-produce salesmen, etc.: —
Written
June, Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
1901 .. £5,569 Nil £5,569 7,500
1902 .. 12,299 Nil 12,299 7,500
1903 .. 6,319 Nil 6,319 7,500
1904 .. 6,438 5 p.c. =£2,500 11,438
1905 .. 3,523 5 ~ „ 2,500 12,4<)l
1906 .. 12,561 5 „ „ 2,500 7,500 15,022
1907 . . 17,033 10 „ ~ 5,500 17,500 9,055
1908 .. 8.277 10 ~ ~ 6,500 11,832
1909 .. 13,815 19 „ ~ 10,500 15,177
Property written up, £lO,OOO .. .. 25,177
1910 .. 19,859 35 p.c. = 21,000 24,036
1911 .. 17,509 23J ~ „ 17,500 24,045
1912 . . 14,793 16 ~ ~ 13,500 25,338
1913 . . 20,438 21 „ ~ 19,000 26,776
This co. has made a good recovery. In 1900, when
its paid capital was only £50,000, of which no less
than £25,000 was represented by goodwill and a
few other poor trifles, it had £86,924 out in advances
and book debts ; and some of those debts were des-
perately bad. Even five years later, when dividends
had been resumed, the market said the shares were
worth only 4s. 9d., and the market was probably
right. If a valuation of the assets had been made
in 1900 it is doubtful whether, apart from goodwill,
there would have been £15,000 in excess of liabili-
ties. Since then not a penny has been called for
from shareholders; yet to-day capital has been
brought up to £lOO,OOO and a nice little reserve of
£26,776 has been accumulated; and though certainly
one can’t tell from the accounts whether the £126,776
of capital and reserves is all worth 20s. in the £,
there are these facts to comfort shareholders: (1)
the goodwill asset has been written off, the froth
being replaced by solid assets; (2) the average an-
nual profits for the past five years have shown over
17 p.c. on the present capital of £lOO,OOO. The
latter fact isn’t conclusive proof, of course, that the
assets are not overvalued ; but it is proof that, if
the assets are not highly productive, the busi-
ness is extraordinarily profitable. The chances
are that the assets are worth all they are said to be,
for a management which could so resolutely clean
up the old mess wouldn’t be likely to make another
of the same sort immediately afterwards. Further,
the fine profits have been made without borrowing
much money to lend out in more or less risky ad-
vances to other people. Here are the principal
figures:—
1900. 1010. 1911. 1912. 1913.
Overdrafts ..£55,741 £17,3'1 £29.272 £16,354 £38,159
Or,her liabilities.. 3,009 20,421 23,205' 20,750 15,600
Advances, fore-
closures, etc. .. 87,087 35,303 41,459 27,537 56,692
Freeholds, etc. .. 10,718 104,465 123,813 129.156 1‘>8’,343
Goodwill .. .. 25,000 Nil Nil Nil Nil
The total amount owing by the co. (£53,759) is
slightly less than the amounts owed to the co. on all
accounts; and, assuming that the latter debts are
good, this means that the whole of the capital and
reserves are represented by the co.’s extensive city
office premises (largely let), and the wool-stores and
sale yards. If the co. can hold its business without
making advances when the tide runs out n*xt time
and clients want money, shareholders won’t do too
much if they give three cheers for the management.
Going back for a minute to the first table, it will be
seen that the dividend of late has been anything
from 16 to 35 p.c. Actually, as a rule, a 10 p.c. cash
div. has been paid ; the balance the co. has held on
to in order to pay up the shares gradually to £l.
The paying-up has now been completed ; and though
some shareholders may itch for something more than
10 p.c., first consideration should be given to the re-
serves, which in this class of business ought to be
much stronger than they are at present.
Brennan’s Amphitheatres, Ltd. (Syd-
ney) was formed to take over the vaudeville enter-
prises of James Brennan as from March 3, 1911. The
original capital was £90.000, of which Brennan took
£ 60,000, apparently represented as follows :
Value of ontion on Svdney property . . £2O 000
Goodwill . . . . ‘. . . . . . 37^958
Leases and accessories . . . . . . 2,042
Total £60,000
'There is some doul t as to what should be done with
those figures, because it is certain that the Castle-
reagh-street property was worth far more than Bren-
nan had some years ago got the right to buy it for.
The new co. had it valued, and in the prospectus it
was alleged to be worth £51,500. whereas all that
had to be paid for it was £22,650. Brennan’s cut
out of the flotation was therefore not so excessive as
it looked. Things didn’t pan out well in the first
few months, and then the Fullers, of Maoriland,
came on the scene. They brought in four theatres
(freeholds and perpetual leaseholds) valued at
£5B 000, and got 70,000 £1 shares; and B. J. Ful-
ler became the energetic managing director of the
whole business. Other theatres have been secured,
and for these apparently, another £2200 has been-
paid for goodwill. Allowing that the Sydney free-”*
hold was worth the optitin money plus the amount
actually paid for it. this is how things stand:—
Deficit
(Goodwill
Added not reok-
to oned an
March, Loss. Dividend. Deficit. Asset).
1911 . . £37,958
1912 .. £4,080 £ 1855 £5,935 43.893
Further goodwill purchases . . 14,200 58,093
Towards
Pro fl t. Reserves.
1913 . . 14,697 5 p.c. =BOOO 6,697' 51,396
In the middle of the co.’s first year a div. of 9d.
ner share was declared. Brennan refused to take his
ILtle lot; hence the total paid out was only £lBB5.
That first year wasn’t a fair criterion. The co., re-
lying on having a new theatre readv in Melbourne
in December, engaged performers ; ‘ but the place
wasn't ready till four months later, and these per-
formers were thrown on the co.’s hands. The Bul-
letin won’t swear that the past year was a fair
criterion either, for work has been exceptionallv
plentiful and wages unusuallv high. A heap of this
work has been paid for with borrowed money, and
you can’t spend the same loan twice. On the con-
trary, after spending it once you’ve got to repay it
once, and until it is repaid Cohen must have his in-
terest, and what Cohen gets Brennan isn’t likely to.
The slump isn’t reaJlv here yet; nevertheless Knibbs
shows in the Labor Bulletin for the Commonwealth
issued the other dav that, on trade unions’ returns,
for every 55 men idle at the end of 1912 there were
64 at the end of March and 73 at the end of June,
and that sort of movement is going to hit amusement
enterprises as hard as anybody or anything. On
the other hand, Australia, compared with other
countries, has undoubtedly been understocked with
music halls of the better type; and with a dozen or
more halls on its “circuit” this co. can afford to
lure attractive performers with good engagements.
Still, it has a big lump of dead wood to carry. Be-
sides the £51,396 represented by paper, there is
£69,237 owing on mortgage, and that means a big
first bite out of profits in bad times as well as good
ones. The capital is £160,000.
City of Newcastle Gas and Coke Co.
(N.S.W.) :
To Re- Ite-
Proflts. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1906 . . £4500 15 p.c. = a-3375 £1,185 £53,593
June, 1907 . . 4925. 15 ~ ~ 3375 1,550 55,143
Dec., 1907 . . 4714 15 „ „ 3375 1,339 56,432
June, 1908 .. 4682 15 ~ „ 3375 1,307 5/,789
Dec., 1908.. 5327 15 ~ ~ 3375 1,952 59,741
June, 1909 . . 5511 15 ~ „ 3375 2,136 61,877
Dec., 1909 . . 5727 15 „ „ 3375 2,352 64,229
Premiums on new shares . . 10,565 74,794
June, 1910.. 4780 15 p.c. = 3969 811 75,605
Dec., 1910 . . 7358 15 „ „ 4167 3,191 78,796
June, 1911 . . 6563 15 „ ~ 4167 2,396 81,192
Premiums on new shares .. 5,282 86,474
Dec., 1911.. 7191 15 p.c. = 4497 2,694 89,168
Premiums on new shares . . 5,282 94,450
June, 1912 .. 6739 15 p.c. = 4894 1,845 96,295
£66,370 Reserves’transferred to capital 29,925
Unexplained additions to reserves ..1,377 31,302
Dec., 1912.. 7089 iO p.c. = 6637 452 31,754
Assets written up . . 67,801 99,555
£99.555 Reserves'transferred to capital
June, 1913.. 8377 10 p.c. = 0637 1,740 1,740
The new Gas Act is responsible for the ragged ap-
pearance of the bottom of that table. The capital
was £66,370. Then something over six months ago
share for share was issued. That made the total
6132,740 in 66,370 £2 shares. The Act gave the
co. six months in which to capitalise any remaining
shares. Assets were thereupon revalued, and
V 67,801 was in consequence added to the reserves.
This brought the reserves to £99,555, which was
distributed in another 66,370 £2 shares, paid to
£1 10s. The old shares were called “A”; the
second lot “B.” Then 33,185 new “C” shares were
offered to “A” shareholders at par—a share for
every two old ones. Under the Act these “C” shares
can carry only 7 p.c. That limitation apparently
scared off some people, so that only 28,681 were
applied for. These are £2 shares paid so far to
4s. The “A” and “B” shares are limited to 10
p.c. ; the only way they can get more is through
a reduction of the price of gas below the standard
now charged. The old shareholders have done very
well: the man who in 1911 had 100 shares has now
(if he hasn’t soldi 200 fully paid to £2 and 100
paid to 305., and he could have applied for 50
carrying 7 p.c. Apart from the latter his present
10 p.c. on £550 is as good as p.c. would have
been on the old £2OO. Still it isn’t quite a 27 A
p.c. div. for all of them, because on some of the,
old shares a premium was charged by the
co. In any case the public now knows, or believes
it knows, the worst. There can’t be any more bonus
shares, and there can’t be any more dividends in
excess of 10 p.c., except on the condition mentioned
above; and on any further capital that may be got
into the business no more than 7 p.c. can be paid,
likewise except on the condition mentioned above.
And as the amount available after paying the present
divs. is not large, and as the tendency is to give
gas-workers a much bigger wage than t.hev have
had hitherto, it seems prettv certain that there won’t
be more than a 10 p.c. div. on one lot of shares
and 7 p.c. on the other for many a long day.
* * * f-
Harts, Ltd., caterers, etc., of Sydney ;
Written To Re- . De-
Profit. Dividends. Off. serves, ficit.
Dec., 1909.. 700
Dec., 1910.. £5296 7 p.c. = £2BOl £2OOO £495 11*205
Further goodwill items, £250 .. .. 11,455
June, 1911.. 4169 Bp.c. = 2000 1800" 369 11,’( 86
Deo., 1911.. 2625 8,, ~ 2000 200 425 10.661
June, 1912.. 4568 8’ ~ ~ 2000 2000 568 10,093
Dec., 1912.. 2553 6,, ~ 1500 2000 11,040
Further goodwill items. £1873 .. .. 12,913
June, 1913.. 6852 10 p.c. = 25 0 3000 1352 11 *561
The table isn’t complete without some explanation.
The co. paid Philip Hart £11,700 (in shares) for
the business; but it also paid him £7OOO for the
lease. The lease may have been worth that
much; The Bulletin doesn’t know. Leases always
are doubtful items in a balance l sheet. They may
be assets or they may be liabilities. Many a man
has in good times taken premises and agreed to
pay more rent than he could ever hope to get if he
wanted to sub-let. However, this £7OOO is passed
as an asset, and only the £11,700 paid for goodwill
—a purely paper item —is shown as the co.’s deficit
to start with. Now other troubles arise. The
balance-sheet lumps goodwills and leases together,
and throws in “etc.” on general principles;
and this item lately jumped £1873; and that may
be more money paid for goodwill, or it may be
consideration for lease, or it may be “etc.” Any-
way, it has been reckoned as something intangible
and added to the deficit. So far that deficit hasn’t
been pruned down much; but that/is probably due
to the fact that, when the co. was formed, the ven-
dor, who seems to have been anxious to do the fair
thing all through, put up 20,300 shares to guarantee
an average 7 p.c. div. till the end of 1913, after
allowing £2OOO a year for depreciation. Recently
the co. purchased the business of Baumann’s, Ltd., for
£5500; but whether that is included in the present
accounts does not transpire. In addition to the
doubtful leasehold asset there is another: “Leasehold
improvements, £9528.” Apparently neither the
leasehold nor the improvements on the lease-
hold are being written down ; but, as shown
above, solid amounts are being written off
against general depreciation. Still this is
not a satisfactory plan: Profit and Loss ought to
be charged with an amount calculated to extinguish
the wasting asset within the life of the lease;' and
preferably this amortization fund should be accumu-
lated in deposits. Here, then, is the position. The
co. has a paid capital of £50,000 and £2012 of
undivided nrofit; and £30,645 of that is represented
■‘by leaseholds, leasehold improvements and goodwill,
less a proportion of the general depreciation fund of
£lO,BOO. The principal is not, therefore, well se-
cured by tangible assets. The balance of the capital
phis £9827 of liabilities is represented by cash
(£1129), stock, plant, etc., some of it of doubtful
value if it had to be sold. On the other hand, the
business has been fairly remunerative. In the first
half of last year profits were small; but there were
a good many non-recurring expenses. Last half they
were excellent. It’s a business in which a heap, of
money can be made when it is profitable; but it’s
not a business that you can make money in by
simply onening vour doors. In London Spiers and
Pond, Ltd., show scarcely any profit nowadays; and
the fact that Harts, Ltd., could buy out Baumann’s
for £5500 is significant.
The Charters Towers Gas Co. (Q.) ;
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves
Apl., 1906. . £603 10 p.c. =£loso —£‘><oo
Oct., 1906.. 1345 10 „ „ 1050 100 195 “"05
Apl., 1907.. 999 10 „ „ 1050 “544
Oct., 1907.. 1039 10 „ „ 1050 125 2408
Apl., 1908.. 930 10 „ ~ 1050 - 2288
Oct., 1908.. 1208 10 „ „ 1050 200\ 2246
Apl., 1909.. 767 8 „ „ 840 2173
Oct., 1909.. 887 8 „ ~ 840 47 2220
Apl., 1910. . 337 Nil 337 2220
Dec., 1910.. 1377 Nil 597 780 3000
June, 1911.. 1340 Nil 650 690 3690
Dec., 1911. . 1308 10 p.c. = 1063 500 3435
June, 1912.. 1116 Nil 616 500 3935
Dec., 1912.. 1166 10 p.c. = 1052 600 3449
June, 1913.. 1517 Nil 522 995 4444
Things will probably begin to look up for the share-
holders in another 12 months, and a return to regular
dividends is promised. But the directors would d
well to keep the brake on till respectable reserve"
have been accumulated —only £1399 has been add i
in the past eight years. Or—what amounts to the
same thing—the property and plant should be wri
ten down hard out of profits, and the profits accumn
lated; for Charters lowers is a goldfield, and the
time arrives when the best of goldfields becomes a
mere collection of valueless holes in the ground I-
profits are not thus accumulated for the return of
capital later on, then the dividends must be regarded
as partly return of capital. During the six months
the overdraft was reduced by £283, and it now
stands at £521. The end of the year should see die
last of it. The original debt was £6500, the price
paid when the co. bought out its electric light com-
petitor. Sales for the half-year were: (las, £258->-
electric current, £1304. For the correspondin'.’
period of 1912: Gas, £2420; electric current, £ 137 "
Neither movement is much to be proud of, and unless
something unexpected turns up on the Towers, the
future doesn’t possess any particularly bright ’ pro-
spects. Liabilities are £967, liquid assets (includ-
ing stock), £2500, so the cash position is fairly
sound.
Vale of Clwydij Coal Mining Co
(N.S.W.) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves
Dec., 1905. - £2269 10 p.c. =£lsoo £769 £2,021
June, 1906.. 1720 10 ~ ~ 1500 220 2 241
Dec., 1900. . 2688 10 ~ ~ 1500 1188 3V29
.June, 1907.. 1835 10 ~ „ 1500 335 3 764
Dec., 1907.. 1454 10 „ „ 1500 3,718
June, 1908.. 4018 30 ~ „ 4500 3.230
Dec., 1908.. 295/ 10 ~ ~ 1500 1457 4 69<
. n IQnu I 1543 10 „ ~ 1500 1 „
' ’ - • I £ 2912 dropped out of Reserves. J 1 ,824
Dec., 1909.. 151 1 10 p.c. = 1500 11 1,835
June, 1910.. 8020 10 1500 6520 8,355
Doc., 1910., 3505 10 „ „ 2250 1255 9,610
June, 1911.. 2558 10 ~ ~ 2250 308 9,918
Dec., 1911.. 2775 10 ~ „ 2250 525 10,443
June, 1912.. 2658 10 ~ „ 2250 408 10,851
Dec., 1912.. 3511 10 ~ ~ 2250 1261 12.112
June, 1913.. 6364 10 ~ „ 3000 3364 15,476
The man who buys coal shares on the strength of the
information he gets from the published reports and
statements of account is a fool nine times out of ten.
A coal mine is a wasting asset; yet the official report
never by any chance mentions whether the mine is
one year or 20 years from its end. There presum-
ably are people who know, or have a very fair idea,
but if they are the people who write the official re-
ports they take all sorts of care that the information
isn’t furnished to the general body of shareholders
and the public. This Vale of Clywdd isn’t a worse
sinner in this respect than most. In fact, it isn’t
quite so bad a sinner as most, for its directors do
occasionally let in a little light on the dark places.
For instance, this time they say: “The co. is now
working on its leasehold property in good coal. We
are pleased to say that the good seam in which the
co. was working towards this leasehold is carried on,
with every prospect of its continuance.” The co.
belongs to the Lithgow Coal Association, which is
the selling agent for it and the other principal pro-
ducers of Western coal ; and it is only
since the association was formed and put an end to
the old throat-cubing tactics that the co. has done
any good. Latterly, Vale of Clywdd has been putting
a lot of money into brickworks also, and has thus
become an industrial as well as a coal-mining con-
cern. How the new enterprise will turn out it is
too early yet to say. Capital is now £60,000 —for
many years it was only £30,000 —and the surplus
of liquid assets amounts to very nearly £20,000, in
spite of the recent outlay of £12,000 or so on brick-
works.
Newcastle-Wallsend Coal Co. (N. S.
Wales) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1904 £5.003 10 p.c. =£5,000 .' 3.£49,254
June, 1905 5,027 10 ~ 5,000 27 49,281
Dec., 1905 3,759 10 ~ ~ 5,000 48,040
June, 1906 5,093 10 ~ ~ 5,000 93 48,133
Dec., 1906 5,273 10 „ ~ 5,000 273 48,406
•June, 1907 10,567 15 ~ ~ 7,500 3067 51,473
Dec., 1907 10,097 20 .. ~ 10,000 97 51,570
June, 1908 10,013 20 „ „ 10,000 13 51,583
Dqc., 1908 10,431 20 ~ ~ 10,000 431 >2,014
June, 1909 10,370 20 „ 10,000 370 52,384
Dec., 1909 4,090 10 ~ „ 5,000 51.474
June, 1910 5,115 10 „ „ 5,000 115 51,589
Dec., 1910 10,562 20 „ ~ 10,000 562 52,151
June, 1911 4,163 10 ~ .. 5,000 51,314
Dec., 1911 5,694 10 ~ ~ 5,000 694 52,008
June, 1912 5,329 10 „ ~ 5.000 329 52,337
Dec., 1912 5,771 10 ~ ~ 5,000 771 53,108
June, 1913 7,660 15 ~ ~ 7,500 160 53,268
“The co.’s mine, rolling stock, railway, machinery,
plant, etc., have been efficiently maintained, and
are in good working order.” the directors report. No
doubt. But what shareholders want to know much
more is how much longer it is estimated the mine
will last, on an output equal to the present, aw!
whether it has been well opened up to maintain
that output without extraordinary outlay in the
future. Something, it seems, is wrong. Only three
years ago these shares were worth £22; a little
before that they were £25; now they have gradu-
ally sagged to £l6, and the increased dividend put
scarcely any heart into the market. Coal stocks are
included in the Investment section of the market:
presumably they are reckoned to be a cut above
the speculative silver-lead-zinc and copper concerns.
Yet if the silver-lead-zinc concern didn’t give more
information about its ore reserves and its probable
life than the average coal co. does, it would be
crucified-—and would deserve to be. All that The
Bulletin knows about the Newcastle Wallsend is
of comparatively little consequence. It can tell
what profit is disclosed ; but a mine whose end was
booked for to-morrow could show just as much
profit to-day as one which had 50 years in front
of it. For the rest, this paper can merely offer
the following comparison:—
June, June,
1903. 1913
Liabilities . . . . . . £1,420 £7,944
Mining and fixed property . . 88,701 92.41 a
Liquid assets . . . . 84,588 bo,i>94
During the past 10 years the co. may have made
purchases which will extend its life for many
years. If it hasn’t done so it ought to have been
accumulating liquid assets. Only this much is
plain: profits during the past 10 years, after pro-
viding for dividends, have not been sufficient to
purchase whatever additions have been made to
property and plant. Nevertheless, the financial
position is very sound. There are 10,000 shares
paid to £lO, and the net liquid assets represent
about £7 4s. per share. And there is some coal-
mining plant (trucks, for instance) which in nor-
mal circumstances is nearly as good as gold.
* * » *
Broken Hill South Silver Mining Co. :
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
Dec., 1905.. £71,149 £35,000 £19,081 £105,969
June, 1906.. 67,535 60,000 7,488 106,016
Dec., 1906.. 99,976 60,000 18,975 127,017
June, 1907.. 103,381 80,000 9,492 140,906
Dec., 1907.. 73,350 70.000 10,000 134,256
June, 1908.. 15,497 20.000 491 129,262
Dec., 1908.. 51,016 Nil 10.603 169,585
June, 1909.. 46,795 40,000 10,742 165,638
Dee., 1909.. 47,980 40,000 100,000 73,618
■Tune, 1910.. 42,624 20,000 5,166 91,076
Dec., 1910.. 72,427 60,000 5,081 98,422
June, 1911.. 77,065 60,000 5,087 111,000
Dec., 1911.. 128,134 90,000 5,301 143,833
June, 1912.. 141,639 120,000 5,684 159,788
Dec., 1912.. 217,776 170,000 5,809 201,755
June, 1913.. 119,936 160,000 5,698 155,993
The probable reasons why the half-year's profits were
little more than half those of the previous six months


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited)
2, 4 and 6 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY
AND EFFICIENCY OF
TRUST MANAGEMENT
can best be obtained by the
appointment of this Company as
Trustees, Executors, or
Administrators, etc.
FIXED and LOW CHARGES.
BOOKLET ON APPLICATION.
A. J. MACKENZIE, Manager.
DO YOU REQUIRE POWER?
IF SO,
Kynoch Cas Engines & Producer Plants
WILL GIVE YOU
HIGHEST Efficiency with LOWEST Costs.
90 William St., Mel-
bourne ;277 Clarence
St., Sydney. And at
Adelaide. S. A. , and
Perth, W.A.
K4JM
a
A great mistake, when erecting new wonts or re-
arranging old ones, is often made in constructing the
building and installing machinery ere looking round
for means of transport of the raw material, half-
manufactured and finished goods. Messrs. Adolf
Bleichert and Co., of London, have issued various
catalogues and leaflets, illustrating and describing a
few of the many transport systems and plants which
they have supplied, and which show the solution of
the transport question and the advantages of em-
ploying such appliances. W. and J. Lempriere,
Melbourne and Sydney, are the Australian representa-
tives, and would be pleased to hear from those in-
terested. A specially trained engineer is retained to
consult and advise.*
Mine managers and engineers contemplating Re-
inforced Concerte construction should write for par-
ticulars of the Indented Steel Bar, which gives the
greatest bond, and is the strongest and cheapest re-
inforcement on the market. Used by the N. S.
Wales and Queensland railways for bridges, by the
Sydney Water and Sewerage Board for elevated re-
servoirs, by the N. S. Wales Government Architect,
and by all the leading architects. Should guaranteed
designs be required for concrete structures, our ex-
pert will be pleased to furnish plans and descrip-
tions. Apply, Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.*
Efficient grinding is one of the many problems
that mine managers have to solve. The Hardinge
Conical Mills have proved to the Calumet and Hecla
Mining Co. that grinding is not such a difficult
problem ; they have installed 64 of them, and say
“the Hardinge Conical Mill is the most efficient
grinding machine we have yet gotten hold of.” If
they say this of the mills, it should be worth the
while of mine managers here to inquire about them.
The Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are
the sole representatives for them in the Common-
wealth, and will be glad to forward particulars.* [1
Extract from The Insurance Record, London, Sep-
tember 22, 1911 : “To have written insurances for
£5,550,000 (Ordinary, Industrial and Accident) in
a vear whien was marked by the keenest competition
from beginning to end, is an achievement which
proves that the''Colonial Mutual is a force to be
reckoned with in every sphere to which its influence
extends/’*
* * * *
PIONEER WOOD PIPE does not chemically affect
fluids passing through it, and is not subject to
deterioration even when used for carrying the strong-
est corrosive fluids. It shows special adaptability
to mine service. Get catalogue from The Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., 57 York Street, Sydney (Head
Office).*
The Goulburn Municipal Council, after exhaustive
inquiries, have decided to install two 128 B.H.P.
“Hornsby” Suction Gas Engines and Plants, as the
motive power for their electric supply (in competi-
tion with all classes of engines and boilers), thus
following the example set by a number of towns in
Australasia and other parts of the world, which have
already installed the “Hornsby,” with highly favor-
able results. Intending purchasers of motive power
should apply to R. HORNSBY & SONS, LTD., Sid-
ney, Melbourne and Brisbane.*
Harringtons Ltd. are now in a position to quote
the lowest fees for all kinds of assay, analytical and
metallurgical work. Expert advice on ore treatment,
smelting, bullion, refining, etc. This firm have now
a most up-to-date and completely fitted laboratory,
directed by a first-class analyst from Johnson and
Sons, London', assayers to the Bank of England,
H.M. Mint, The Council of India, etc. Any work of
the above nature entrusted to this reliable firm of
photographic manufacturers will receive immediate
and prompt attention. For full particulars and
prices apply to Harringtons Ltd., 380 George Street,
Sydney.*
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh Street, Syd-
ney.*
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grinnvade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, cruciblek, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
The H.M.A.S. Australia, about to arrive on our
coast, is fitted entirely with Babcock and Wilcox
Water-tube Boilers, similar to the H.M.S. New Zea-
land and other Dreadnoughts recently built for the
Admiralty.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Oollison & Co., 483 Collins Street. Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
Assayers, Mine Managers and Prospectors write
to H. B. Silberberg and Co.. Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, and at Melbourne, for particulars concerning
mining requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s
disc pulverisers to 200 mesh ; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh ; Ainsworth's assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain ; prospectors’ balances to T/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles: chemicles; etc.*
NO6EL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
were given last week. Principally because of the
Silverton tramway strike the input at the concen-
trating mill was nearly 30,000 tons 1e55—151,742
tons as against 180,080 tons. Assay values were,
however, more than maintained; the lead averaged
14.4 p.c. and the silver 6.50 z., both a shade better
than in the previous half. And the mill recoveries
were also better —78.3 p.c. of the lead and 56.2 p.c.
of the silver. The quantity of ore developed in the
mine was estimated six months ago at 3.250,000
tons. Since then a good deal of prospecting has
been done at 1070 ft., and a bore put out west of the
footwall ore channel went for 47ft. through sul-
phides worth 17 p.c. lead, 6oz. silver and 131 p.c.
zinc, and for another 14 ft. there was ore averaging
20 p.c. lead and 25 p.c. zinc. The reserves of pay-
able ore can therefore be safely said to be larger
now than they were six months ago. As to the value
of this ore, everything depends, of course, upon the
erratic metal markets. But this is what has hap-
pened in the past 64 years:—
Ore Treated. Divs. paid.
June, 1907 .. .. 100,385 tons .£BO,OOO
Dec., 1907 .. .. 110,715 „ 70,000
June, 1908 . . . . 78,003 „ 20,000
Dec., 1908 . . . . 111,967 ~ Nil
June, 1909 . . . . 137,839 „ 40,000
Dec., 1909 . . . . 167,265 „ 40,000
June, 1910 .. .. 132,968 „ 20,000
Dec., 1910 .. .. 179,216, ~ 60,000
June, 1911 . • . • 175,044 „ 60,000
Dec., 1911 •• •• 181,790 ~ 90,000
June, 1912 . . . . 165.532 ~ 120,000
Dec., 1912 . . . . 180,080 „ 170,000
June, 1913 . . . . 151,742 „ 160,000
Total .. .. 1,872,546 tons £930,000
Those dividends have been derived partly from accu-
mulated zinc tailings. During the past six months
the De Bavav Co. took 20,809 tons of these old by-
products and the Zinc Corporation 39,270 tons;
total, 60,070 tons. There are 996,163 tons left, or
more than eight years’ supply at the recent rate of
shipment. On top of that there are 329,211 tons of
slimes, rich in lead and zinc; and they are going
to be worth a lot of money presently. Current produc-
tion will therefore be assisted by the old by-products
for many years to come- —for more than 10 years,
anyhow, assuming that they are drawn on at the re-
cent rate. If, then, the average of the past 64 years
is maintained, during the next 10 years 2,880,000
tons of ore will he treated, and (with the help of
the aforementioned by-products) dividends of
£1,430,000 will be paid. There are 200,000 shares
in the co., and that means £7 3s. per share. After
10 years there ought still to be left a considerable
tonnage of ore. Also, there are net liquid assets
(exclusive of stores) equal to £135,000 on hand,
and that means, another 13s. 6d. per share. Most of
this figuring is built on the assumption that prices,
costs, extractions and values will average in the next
10 years what they have averaged in the past 61
years ; or, if there is a bettering of one, that there will
be a kick of equal force coming in the opposite direc-
tion. One can never tell, of course ; but 64 years
ought to be a fair period on which to strike an
average in the metal markets.
* * * *
North Broken Hide, Ltd., which till
a few months ago was thf N. 8.11. Mining Co., which
was in its turn a reconstruction of a co. formed 10
vears earlier: —
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. off. serves.
Dec., ’06.. £50,692 25p.c. =£17,500 £5,986 £63,799
June,’o7.. 54,167 60 ~ ~ 42,000 16,225 59,741
Dec ’O7 50,69" 50 ~ ~ 35,000 19,655 55,776
June, 08.. 27.870 20 „,, 14,000 12,619 57,027
Dec., ’OB.. 30,293 20 „,, 14,000 13.034 60,286
June,’o9.. 27,305 20 ~ „ 14,0 0 13,096 60,495
Dec., ’09.. 31,764 20 ~ ~ 14,000 17,550 6",7"9
New share premiums, £35,000 .. 95,709
June,’lo.. 50,120 35 p.c. = 28,000 22,783 95,016
Dec., ’lO.. 73,179 40 ~ ~ 35,000 26,328 106,897
June, ’ll 62,201 60 ~ ~ 52,500 12,662 103,936
Dec., ’ll.. 98,708 70 „,, 61,250 12,168 129,226
June,’l2 . 101.663 93f ~ ~ 93,750 11,910 125,229
Dec., T 2.. 175,993 220 ~ ~220,000 17,200 64,022
Assets written up and all reserves capitalised.
Capital increased from £2(10,000 to £600,000.
June, ’13.. 142,018 20 p.c. = 60,000 3,265 78,753
Down to the beginning of 1912 the capital had of
late years been £175,000 in £1 shares. Then
£25;000 more was issued; and during the past year
those- 2(10,000 shares have been exchanged for
600,000," Still of £1 each, on the pretext that the
old shares had become unwieldy in the market. The
juggle w’abnjt of much practical consequence. It
doesn’t matter much whether the alleged capital is
£200,000 or- £§00,000; for the alleged capital of a
mining co. rareTy bears any close relation to the
market value. ’lncidentally the market value doesn’t
always hear much 1 relation to the real value.
This concern bad a strange, eventful history.
When Zeb Lane „ was the young Apollo among mine
managers, the North? of which he was in charge, was
thought to be likelytfcio'king. But the good surface
stuff was soon lost, > and then gloom settled on the
property. It was eventually turned down as a low-
grade sulphide proposition, Hal Shepperd, still on
the Board, deserves a l of of the credit of resurrect-
ing it. He and a few others saw that sulphides were
coming, and they picked the derelict up for a trifle.
The derelict has paid £3B5f(TOO in divs. during the
past two years. In the six. months just gone by
153,680 tons of ore were-miohfl and milled. Allow-
ing £12,018 off for depreciation (a word will be
said about this presently), . tljq net profit was
£130,000. That means so near to 17s. a ton that
the difference doesn’t matter. Above the 1250 ft.
level it was reckoned six months - ago that there
were 2,000,000 tons. The next level will be at
1400 ft., and nothing has been met in the develop-
ment work to suggest that the ore won’t be as good
there. Two million tons at 17s. (which includes the
payment for the zjnc product) is £1,700,000, or
£2 16s. Bd. per share—on last half-year s results.
Also, the surplus of liquid assets over liabilities is
£190,195, and that’s another 6s. 4d. This paper
will not, however; guarantee that last half-year s
results will continue. The ore is there,, and the ex-
traction of metal will most likely go on improving ;
but there is no telling what the metal markets will
do. Shear £1 a ton off lead, and profits come back
about £20,000 for a half‘year. In the first half of
1909 gross profits got as low as £27,305. The out-
put was then 66,797 tons, so the gross profit at that
time was only a shade over Bs. per ton, though the
Amalgamated Zinc Co. was then, as now, taking the
tailings. And 2,000,000 .tons at Bs. is £BOO,OOO,
or £1 6s. Bd. per share, instead of the previously
mentioned £2 16s. Bd. The share market takes a
view with rather more common-sense in it than usual
where a mine is concerned, and drops itself down
comfortably between the two.
Something was said up above about depreciation,
ine last old co. used to write something off for
wear and tear every term. The new co. hasn’t writ-
ten anything off plant for the past term, but has
dropped £30,000 into a reserve for depreciation
and general purposes. This appears among the re-
serves, and consequently among the profits; so the
true profits are less than the table shows. The
£3265 mentioned as written off is mostly the cost
of the reconstruction, with stamp duty.
* * *
Portland Place Mansions, Ltd., is a
scheme for providing St. Kilda (Vic.) with further
‘flat” habitations. The promoter has an option over
a triangular three-acre block well served by tram-
lines, and within a stone's-throw of St. Kilda Esplan-
ade. The capital is £50,000 in £lO shares. The
promoter takes 500 fully paid, 3200 are put on the
market, and 1300 held in reserve. It is proposed to
build shops and a motor garage, and to start a series
of five mansions by converting one of the two private
dwelling-places now on the property into a flattery
containing 90 rooms. If this goes successfully, an-
other will follow, and so on. There is no visible
reason why the flats should not be rushed, and the
scheme looks calculated to supply a want. Half of
the Portland Place estate is the property of Harvey
Patterson, now gone to Maoriland; the other half
belongs to F. P. Beyer, whose house will be the one
to be first dealt with if the shares are taken
up. The estimate of £375 for preliminary expenses
is not extravagant, though £5OOO in shares is a stiff
price to pay for a mere right to purchase at a
present-day valuation.
Wunderlich’s are issuing £40.000 in 7 p.c.
second pref. shares, with no right to more than 7
p.c. As the existing pref. capital is only £40,000,
the second prefs. will be amply protected ; and the
return (cumulative) is choice. Present shareholders
have first call on the new issue.
The first annual report of the Carpathia
is an unsatisfactory document. Those who expected
that at last they would get an official statement
about the mine, the value of the ore, the quantities
taken out and their metal contents, are disappointed.
There is no mine report at all and no summary of
shipments, and the directors say nothing except that
the weekly reports have kept shareholders “fully ad-
vised”—which is nonsense. The weekly reports have
been utterly unsatisfactory, consisting mostly of
vague, indefinite remarks. Profit and loss account
shows a credit of £20,108. Two Is. dividends have
been paid absorbing £10,407 ; and after providing
for outstanding debts there was £lB7B in cash left.
Other more or less liquid assets on July 31 were —
Sundry debtors, £3185; tin ore and stores, £1456.
The financial position is therefore fair, though there
is a poor little lot of cash in hand considering the
vigor with which the rich ore has been rooted out
since operations started. Probably to atone for the
absence of any remarks by the manager, the direc-
tors promise an early report from Dr. Logan Jack.
The drive of 40ft. in the Carpathia is said
to bulk 4 p.c., and another drive of 30ft. gives equal
values. Stated that the grade of ore sent to Bar-
medman is to be reduced to 4 p.c., which is fair
enough, despite the number of handlings. It was
certain that the old rich grade could not be main-
tained, except for small and infrequent parcels, but
tonnage may make up for the lower values.
The prospector’s yarn; “The Bulletin
said the Glamorgan, away out from Grafton
(N.S.W.), hadn’t got below water level. I’ll admit
we haven’t got a deep shaft. But it’s not because
we were fifraid. I’ve been on it 12 years, sticking to
it, nursing it, mostly making a living out of it. But
it was slow work. No money for machinery—just
plugging away, me and a man generally; and when
you’ve got down 90 feet with hand power, it’s
enough. But there’s ore there; think I would have
hung on for 12 years if there wasn’t? Forty tons
I sent away in one parcel—and that’s a fair test.
Black ore, carbonates; in the bottom, sulphides.
When we got down as far as we could in one shaft
we just sank another. The place is full of them.
Now we want a reverb. It costs too much to send
the mullock away with the ore. And why should
we ? There’s plenty wood and water handy ; and if
we make matte we’ll make money. You haven’t got
a chance when you have to sell your crude ore. I’ve
gone as far as I can single-handed ; and that’s whv
the little Glamorgan syndicate went on the market.
Then along comes The Bulletin and says—‘What’s
underneath?’ If I’d had the money to find out, I
wouldn’t be asking for it.” Rees Thomas is the
prospector who puts it that way. And when a man
has stuck to a show for 12 years, and plugged
down half a dozen shafts nearly 100 ft. almost single-
handed, The Bulletin reckons he’s about due to
have his say.
* * * *
“lodide” : Why don’t the directors of the
lodide (N.S.W.) do something definite bv winzing
from the two occurrences of shinning ore at the 90ft.
level? Here is an ore channel 220 ft. wide by 1000 ft.
long, and the ore happens in bunches, and in that
width of channel bunches are easily missed. Rich
ore is underfoot in the two shipping stopes at the
90ft., and horse sense would dictate that the best
prospecting is by following the ore till it cuts out.
* * * *
Principal Westralian results for July:—
Revenue. Profit. Value.
Tonnage. £ £ per ton.
Great Boulder . . 18.788 48,320 24,452 51/5
Ivanhoe .. . . 20.607 38,991 14,011 37/10
Kalgurli .. .. 10,985 22,100 9,416 40/3
Associated • . 11,435 13,486 1,006 23/7
Golden Horseshoe. . 29,030 36,937 2,538 25/6
Yuanmi . . . - 10,600 17,917 4,534 33/9
Sons of Gwalia . . 13,510 20,948 3,942 31/-
Oroya Links . . 12,500 13,270 2,691
Lake View and Star 18,694 21,486 3,623 22/11
Boulder Perseverance 21,550 21,655 983 20/1
Bullfinch Prop. .. 4,806 14,418 8,846 60 -
Kyarra . . - ■ 1,040* 2,610 1,383 53/-
Associated Northern 1,485 4,456 f 1,018 60/-
Associated Victorious 8,573 7,757 319 18/1
Ida H 1.428 4,811 1,633 67/4
Golden Ridge .. 2.950 4,668 1,099 31/8
Lake View and Oroya 8,064* 1,518 319 3/9
Mountain Queen . , 4,166 5.244 L 458 25/2
Queen of the Hills 4,082 7,580 2,t>79 37/1
Fenian - • 2,818 8,744 62/-
SandOueen .. 1,600 5,691 2,500 71/1
Burbanks Main Lode 2,047 4,400 135 43/-
Mararoa .. -- 2,730 4,993 1,589 36/7
Corinthian North. . 2,323 2,472 2 /
Marvel Loch . ■ 1,700 2,649 - § 31/2
Golden Butterfly .. 1,216 1,308 «
North Kalgurli . ■ 1,210 2,924 31/10
Loss.
Great Fingall . . 5,361 11,064 63 41/3
South Kalgurli . . 9,666 10,266 363 21/3
MerrziesConsolidated 2,169 3,551 198 32/3
Commodore -- 880 940 200 21/2
*Now has £BOOO worth of accumulated slimes.
(Includes proceeds of gold won from 3214 tons of
accumulated slimes. tOld Lake View dimes §Ex
V penditure with £678 special outlay on Comet option
just balances receipts.
Dividends; Ivanhoe, £35,000; Kalgurli, £24,000,
Associated, £12,384 ; Sand Queen, £2250.
Golden Butterfly (W.A.) probably re-
alises by this time that it takes money to open up and
equip a mine. Already a few thousands have been
wrung from shareho.ders, and now they are being
stirred up for a further £l5OO in order to clear
off existing debts for plant. A small profit was
earned from the treatment of ore worth a shade
over 20s. in July, but as some better stuff is now
available for stoping the co. expects to do better
this month. The mine may turn out fairly well, but
not enough is yet known of it in depth to warrant
the shares being regarded as anything but a gamble.
Associated Northern (W.A.) is having
further trouble, this time with the treatment of the
Ora Banda sulphides. To overcome this the co. is
sending ore from the mine to its Kalgoorlie mill for
treatment. Cost of transit is given as 15s. per ton ;
but as the stuff has to be carted over 20 miles, railed
another 30, and then carted from the station to the
plant, this estimate is probably under the mark. The
installation of additions to the plant at Ora Banda
is now under consideration.
Yuanmi (W.A.) has got its sulphide mill
going at last. The plant is expected to handle 100
tons a day, but will probably do more when in full
swing. There is plenty of ore in sight to go on
with ; but, although the shoots are likely to be per-
sistent, they show a strong inclination to shorten as
they go down. Still, if the worst happens, the co. can
turn to its other property at Sandstone for help. At
one time the reef in this show looked like flattening
to nothing, but a steepening took place below No. 4
level, and where steepening occurs'in this way there’s
generally hope for permanency. Then there is the
adjoining Sandstone Development leases, which the
co. bought for a few thousands, and which are since
said to be showing 2oz. prospects,
Ingliston Consols (W.A.), which owns a
prize packet next to the Fenian at Meekatharra,
treated 17,981 tons during the year ended June 30
and got £40,933 for its pains. Costs averaged £l.
After spending several thousands in additions and im-
provements to plant, and laying out a fair sum in
development, the owners—a syndicate of five or six—-
divided £11,200. The manager says the mine looks
good, and that the ore in sight is sufficient to main-
tain the present output for three years. If only the
owners of this and the adjoining Fenian could come
to terms and invite one or two of the cos. working
adjacent shows to join in, what a lovely float the
group would make! With anything like manage-
ment, everybody interested could not fail to make
much more money than is otherwise likely. Unfor-
tunately jealousy between the parties has prevented
an amalgamation in the past, and is more than likely
to do so in the future.
Sweet William Consolidated, at Payne’s
Find (W.A.), is seeking exemption. The co. finds it
a waste of time and money to bog into hard ground
with hand boring, and proposes to spend £2500 on
machine drills. Six months’ respite from labor con-
ditions is asked to enable a suitable plant to be
selected and erected. Before this expenditure is in-
curred, some reliable opinion as regards the possi-
bilities of the field at depth should be got. All the
data The Bulletin has been able to obtain goes to
show that geological indications do not augur well
for permanency.
Mararoa (W.A.) hones to prolong its pro-
fitable existence by tacking three adjoining leases on
to its holding. The idea is to prospect a parallel
reef worked years ago by the defunct Norseman Gold
Mines, Ltd. It is alleged that plenty of 355. to
455. ore was left in the days when only ounces paid.
Volatilising experiments are still in pro-
gress at Gwalia Consolidated (W.A.). In a circular
dated July 24 the Board informs shareholders that,
although promising, results so far are insufficiently
conclusive for the purpose of plant design. The
general managers state that before demonstration can
be considered complete, the present plant ought to
run a bit longer. To do this, a few thousands are
wanted, hence the further call of 2d. per share.
* * * *
The old trouble about the timbering of
Mount Morgan is on deck again. Brigalow is plenti-
ful in the district; and A. A. Boyd, the new under-
ground man —as good a miner as there is in Australia
—made tests and recommended the re-employment
of this timber in place of the much more expensive
ironbark and spotted gum. But. the local mining
inspector condemned the brigalow and his chief sup-
ported him. General-manager Magnus then went
into the business again, and could see no reason why
brigalow should not be used. So he started a fight;
and the warden was called on to hear arguments.
James Hebbard, the recognised authority on mine-
timbering at Broken Hill, left that place for North
Queensland a few days ago, and it is safe to say he
is going to give evidence. David Milne, senior in-
spector in N.S.W., has also been mentioned as a
witness. If Boyd, Hebbard and Milne agree that a
timbering system is safe, this paper won’t feel dis-
posed to contradict them.
Brilliant Extended, Charters Towers, has
been doing well. The directors were pretty safe in
paying a sixpenny ( £6250) last .Tune, for there is
a substantial credit balance already. The profit of
£1779 for July, with the expectation of something
good for August, makes another dividend this year
probable. Mills’ United crushed 519 tons for £592,
which isn’t payable. So stoping has been stopped.
Nevertheless shares have risen on a development in
the New Brilliant Freehold. A winze from the Free-
hold’s No. 5 level has followed, what is practically
a new reef for 115 ft. It averages about 3ft. thick,
and gives payable prospects. How far it will extend
to the westward, in the direction of Mills’ United,
has yet to be determined. A crosscut is being driven
from No. 6 level, but owing to the unusually fiat
underlay of the reef all the crosscuts at lower levels
will have to be driven long distances. The Free-
hold’s No. 1 level coincides with Mills’ No. 7, No. 4
with No. 10, No. 5 with No. 11, No. 6 with No. 12.
Mills’ United has three levels opened near the boun-
dary below the Freehold’s No. 5, so if this new make
continues to live down, Mills United will have a
chance of getting it by crosscutting. _ Should the
crosscut from the Freehold’s No. 6 strike the reef,
there will be a flutter. The crosscut was in hard
granite at 72ft.
A more or less complete sweep has been
made of the crowd that used to rule the Great
Southern Consols, Rutherglen (Vic.). No one seems
to know why this show should pay ; nevertheless some
outside enthusiasts have gobbled up over 20,000
shares in a lazy market, and have taken control. The
Consols has been one of the dreary wastes at Ruther-
glen, and it will take a lot of whipping to infuse life
into the moribund sluggard.
Broken Hill miners are having the time of
their lives. The B. H. South’s report shows that
for the past half-year that mine’s men on develop-
ment work averaged 19s. 9fd. per shift, and those
on stoping 16s. lfd. Truckers —youths mostly—
averaged 13s. 4jd.
* * * *
Melbourne motor-’bus investors note that
the suburban municipal powers are already chipping
into the business. Brunswick, Essendon, Fitzroy and
Northcote councils have decided to collaborate in the
running of two lines of ’buses to begin with. Pretty
soon, perhaps, the idea will dawn upon the councils
everywhere that they may as well establish taxi-cab
services, and undercut the extortionate private enter-
prisers. Where the motor-’bus prospers, the reason-
able taxi-cab is wanted, as a rule.
Westralian Mines Dept, is at its wits
end to know what to do about Phillips River. A
State railway of 30-odd miles connects it with the
coast, and large sums have been spent in water con-
servation and in other ways ; yet, although the aver-
age metal contents of the lodes are a good deal higher
than those of a lot of other going concerns in the
Commonwealth, the place is badly punctured. A
foreign eo. promoted by the late Charles Kaufman
and others sank over £700,000 in development,
equipment, smelting plant, etc., but indifferent man-
agement and other misfortunes ultimately landed the
co. on the rocks, and it became a total wreck. Now
the field is being almost wholly worked by small
parties which eke out an existence by sending parcels
of picked ore to eastern smelters for treatment. They
complain, however, that it takes from 8 to 10 p.c.,
with gold contents thrown in, to make a profit under
these conditions, and are urging the Government to
take over the local smelters from the defunct foreign
co.’s successors, and lend them a hand. Unfortunately
a lot of the ore is expensive to treat; and, knowing
this and other difficulties that have to be contended
with, the Department realises fliat local smelting is
not likely to reduce the cost of treatment a great
deal. It has, however, sent an expert along to look
into the matter.
Blythe River Iron Mines, Ltd., is the
most reposeful co. in Australia. It is due for its
26th ordinary meeting, and it hasn’t done a thing
yet. It owns a big deposit of very fine ore in Tas-
mania, and it has just got new leases of 21 years
for the best of the property; but it hasn’t any
money to do anything itself, and it can’t find any-
body who wants an iron mine. So it just hangs
on to its thread of hope and watches its funds
dwindle. There is £2183 still left—which, with
the interest, will be enough to last for another 10
or 12 years.


SKIN DISEASES,
Including Eczema, Pimples, Rashes, Boils, Chilblains,
Ringworm, Shingles, Ulcers. Old Sores, have their
remedy in Rexona, the Rapid Healer. Sold in trian-
gular pots at Is. 6d. and 3s. Obtainable everywhere.*
tiiiVlriinM*
HEEBINQ
QIURriMII.
HEERING’S
COPENHAGEN
CHERRY
BRANDY.
IT’S LIKE PLAYING HAMLET and leaving out
the Prince of Denmark to buy Penduplieate Books
not supplied with “Zanetic” Pen-capying paper. If
security is valued, and permanency of copy desired,
it is VITAL to be sure you are supplied with
“Zanetic.” Copies that fade are useless. “Zanetic”
paper ensures permanency of copy, whilst the latter
is denser and more distinct than the original. Of all
Stationers, or from Makers, S. B. Zanetic, Welford-
road, Leicester, England. Sample sheet, 2d. post free.*
WORLD
RENOWNED
grand
stuhr.
STUHR’S
Genuine Caviare,
Anchovies in Brine
(SALTED SARDELS).
In Tins and Glasses.
Sold by all High-class Provision Dealers.
C. F. STUHR & CO., HAMBURG.
English Export Agent:
W. LOVEGROVE. LONDON. E C.
VERY OLD COGNAC.
OTARD B RANDY
1875, 1869, 1848, 1820 VINTAGES.
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, September 1, 1913.
My Dear Arini, —
The ballroom at State Government House
looked as if it had all its electric wires in
curling pins the other day. A new scheme
for lighting this apartment is to blaze on
the coiffure of Airs. John Bull before this
reaches you. The Stricklands’ first ball in
the official chalet is the cause of the recent
disturbance in the pale duck-egg green walls.
The Kindergarten Union sent forth its
students and schoolmarms to sell wattle in
the streets this first day of September—Alon-
day. General-secretary Ellen Desailly spent
a breathless morning last week in search of
some authority on the etiquette of hawkers'
licenses. In a secret stronghold of Aluni-
cipal Law she found a hole in the Act which
permits the occasional amateur to flourish
flowers for sale without a special permit.
So she promptly drove her chariot through
that hole. The Kindergarten damsels are
out on business. Proceeds of their sale of
the yellow blooms will go towards the deposit
money on the purchase of a college for
training students. Hilton, in Liverpool-
street, is likely to be the place. This is an
old-time mansion. It dates from the days
when Darlinghurst was a countrified suburb,
and the inhabitants thereabouts walked
warily o’ nights by the light of a horned
lantern.
The premises are to be carefully searched
for ghosts before any business is done. All
very ancient Sydney houses should be
searched for ghosts before being bought or
leased. Sydney is not so full of spectres as
it was, for many of the old residences
have been pulled down, or else turned into
boarding establishments. But a friend of
mine, who has a splendid collection of dried
spooks, assures me that, at one time, the
place was full of dead people walking. There
was an aged mansion somewhere about
Glenmore-road, in which the vision of a
former proprietor fell downstairs every night
with a howl and broke his visionary neck.
He had died that way many years before,
and it became a habit. Then there was an
old house in North Sydney, where the lady
of the premises couldn’t give an afternoon
tea because three very old female appari-
tions, in early Victorian garniture, used to
attend, and, though they neither ate nor
drank, they cast a gloom over the proceed-
ings. And a bygone ferry boat was
haunted by a non-paying passenger,
who had died on board through heart
failure while reading a Family Herald.
It was impossible to tell that she
ivasn’t real, unless you noticed the date on
the Family Herald, or unless you sat on
her and found that she wasn’t there. (I
believe, however, that a Sydney pressman
invented this ferry-boat ghost.)
Ghosts, as already hinted, are going
out of fashion. Still, it is always
advisable to have an old house care-
fully inspected before you buv it. The
best method is to take a dog "through it.
Dogs, so it is said, can see apparitions which
human eyes do not perceive. Cats are of
no value. When a cat sees a ghost he tries
to scratch it.
t September 1 is too late for Wattle Day in
N.S.W. Alost of the lovely yellow stuff has
run to stalk and leaf at this time o’ spring.
The wattle maidens who patrolled the city
were fortified with open deal boxes slung on
their shoulders and indexed with a tag of
yellow satin ribbon. But their blooms were
rubbing off in fine fluff like egg powder, and
the pavements were strewn with stalks.
Airs. Francis Anderson has mothered the
Free Kindergarten movement in this town
since its first struggles in a room or two in
Woolloomooloo. At a recent meeting, when
the general secretary produced the annual
report and other heavy-weight matter in the
presence of the Strickland ladyship, Mrs.
Anderson made a few pointed remarks re
diamonds. Going to and fro amongst the
eight free kindergartens which have grown
up in our least alluring back lanes, the lady
pondered on the number of young children
who sit on the edge of the pavement with
their feet in the gutter and their eyes
fixed on Melchizedek’s pawnshop across the
way, because the Kindergarten funds are
shouting for help. She also noted that
amongst her acquaintances were many
dames who could part with a few carats
of diamonds without missing them—for the
good of the kiddies. A hurried desire to
cover up anything in the shape of gems
was noted amongst those present. An un-
reliable rumor tore round the premises to
the effect that one bedizened matron
dragged off some of her gear and buried it
in the depths of a handbag to save if from
the penetrating glance of the lady Savon-
arola.
St. Vincent’s Ball careered up and down
the Town Hall floor soon after last week’s
despatches had to go to press too early to
deal with it, in consequence whereof it was
left out. The fancy sets were put to the
vote. Ballot papers gave Mrs. George Sly
first prize for a white and black team. This
was the most effective and uniform group
in the ballroom, as a sartorial affair.
The best attempt to be exactly like its
name was achieved by Mrs. Neil Macdon-
ald’s Press team. This got away with sec-
ond prize. It deserved a double demy encore
and a foolscap or super-royal cheer for its
stiff paper skirts, which exactly represented
the outer sheets that are covered with ink
in every newspaper office in this town.
Airs. Aiacdonald might have simplified mat-
ters by calling her team “Civilisation.” The
press stands for civilisation, despite its lost-
dog advertisements and its occasional sordid
notice to the effect that Jane .Tones, aged
25. dark-haired and domesticated, wants to
meet a middle-aged Calithumpian gentleman
with a view to the above.
Mrs. Ronald Forbes’s Watteau set had an
indeterminate expression about its white
wigs, and was rather lean on its male legs,
but it was handsomely garbed, and contrived
to win third prize. “Autumn” waltzed
round in russet garb. Airs. Jim Hughes
was responsible for this good-looking team.
Mrs. O’Gorman Hughes’s set was frocked in
black velvet, and hung about the neck with
white . fichus. This team, in its feminine
half, illustrated the fact that the fichu, as
an article of apparel, is as dressy as a pillow
case, if you put the latter round your chest
instead of wearing it under your sleepy
head. Airs. Leonard Dodds marched in
front of a heavily panniered Lady Teazle set
of bewigged maids and matrons. Dr. Odillo
Maher gave the glad hand to Governor
Strickland, who was shadowed bv Colonel
Campbell and A.D.C. Forbes. The vice-
regal dais was filled with official and unoffi-
cial personages, who watched the joyous
capers of the Turkey Trot, Bunny Hug and
mere Lancers from an eminence of one foot
above floor level. The John Toohey dame
towered over smaller committee women.
Mrs. W. F. Brennan, one of the early orig-
inals on the committees of St. Vincent’s Hos-
pital balls, beamed on the successful event
over the rim of the gallery rail. The cheque
ought to be large and very wide about the
waist.
The Orsova officers gave a meal, followed
by a dance, the other night. This revel
began with the usual victim, the defence-
less oyster in the shell, and ended with a
Turkey trot or something of the kind at 1
a.m. About 70 friends of skipper Tim
Healey and his mates were bidden to the
fray.
The British Parliamentarians are striking
this shore with a loud thud as I write. They
arrive in batches, and will be seized and fed
by municipal magnates before they have
time to find their shore legs.
The “What-to-do-with-our-Girls” Exhibi-
tion will have unpacked its industries in
the Town Hall on September 17. The open-
ing will be attended to by some local
mikado, whose name and address is still inde-
cisive. It may be that he will be called
Smith, for most people are Smith more or
less. Organising-secretary Grace Burrows
is going to boom the domestic science sec-
tion. which will revolve round the tireless
cooker, etc., in the basement. A model bun-
galow. built of fibro-cement, to ease the
minds of the fire insurance tetrarchs. will
contain everything that the ordinary woman
requires to. keen her out of mischief. Sev-
eral varieties of stoves, a bathroom and a
scullery will comnlete her happiness. Din-
ner parties for eight guests will be served
up each evening in the fibro-cement dining-
room. Each course is to be cooked with a
different kind of stove. You may
have a Primus scalloped oyster, a
kerosene blue-flame whiting, a gas-
baked hunk of mutton, an entree
browned in a tireless cooker, and an electri-
fied or electrocuted pancake, which is much
the same as a muffin struck by lightning.
The hostesses who take the risks of giving
their guests an exhibition meal on consecu-
tive evenings are Airs. W. A. Holman. Airs.
AlacCallum. Airs. Chief Justice Cullen, the
Calico Knight’s bright-eyed lady, Airs. Tom
Hughes. Airs. Damd. Mrs. Greig-Smith, and
Airs. .Tim Alacarthur Onslow.
A few excerpts from a delightful inter-
view in the Datly Telegraph : “When seen
at her residence. Glenyarrah, Double Bav.
she said: ‘You find me in the midst of tak-
ing out my Venetian glassware for a dinner
party’ ”. .. . (Here follows a peroration on
the decadence of the modern domestic, as
noted in her hankering for roller rinks or
picture shows.) “ ‘That table you see there,
belonged to Alarie Antoinette, and is a very
valuable specimen, but it hss been rent in
several places by careless dusting.’”... .At
this crisis the lady interviewer ought to
have fallen flat on her face. After several
salaams she might have inquired whether
the offending domestics had dusted Alarie
Antoinette’s furniture with a garden roller
or a cross-cut saw? An edifying discourse
in the Annie-8 wan-over-the-teacups manner
follows, re midWictorian women, “who grew
old sweetly in the homes they had made into
shrines for their husbands’ and children’s
hearts.” The interviewer meekly asks, “And
how do you account for this unrest?”
“Cheap amusements,” says Airs. Minerva.
whose smile used to dazzle us behind the
footlights. An informative wedge of criti-
cism on the effects of woman’s suffrage, a
hurried glance at her own stage career, a
whiff of regret for the passing of “class dis-
tinctions,” and we come to a young sister,
of whom it is reported: “Forsaking a
luxurious home, she adopted the strenuous
life of a hospital nurse,” etc. After throw-
ing a solid slice of information at the abashed
interviewer, we are reminded that “Men are
not monsters.... Cleopatra did not demand —
she enticed.”
Chief Magistrate Elliot and his wife and
youngsters have left Norfolk Island for
these parts. There is no special term of
office for this thorny billet. The commis-
sion is worded “at the Governor’s pleasure,”
or something to that effect, and when the
tenant incurs the Governor’s displeasure he
goes. In Governor Chelmsford’s time the
lease was renewed with a large red seal and
much official language at the end of each
year, but this was merely an extra half-yard
of red tape. Captain Elliot is a tough and
wary old naval officer. He leaves the island
because he wants to, having beaten the brief
records of his predecessors by several years.
Nothing but an archangel could combine the
duties of prosecutor, judge, jury, official
gaoler, friend and chief magistrate, and re-
main a popular personage on Norfolk Island.
The Elliots weathered many squalls in the
local gossip-pot with credit to themselves.
Mrs. Chief Magistrate is a kindly, motherly
soul, but I fancy she’ll be glad to take a
rest from the task of trying to be a whole
choir of angels in one woman, which has
been her singing part for six years or so.
A recent bridegroom, Cecil Egan Murnin,
who married Miss Ruth Blair, of Mosman,
the other week, is a son of the late G. F.
Murnin. A patriarch looks over the rim
of liis spectacles to remark that Murnin
senior was one of Sydney’s foremost mer-
chants in the years that are dust. lie was
'or a while manager of the Australian
Widows’ Fund, and was an underwriter and
shipowner in his busy moments. As one of
the founders and first directors of the
A. ALP. (1848), the late G. F. Murnin left
his footprints on this city’s commercial
macadam.
Solicitor Charles Tange’s picturesque
country home, Ivoree, was burnt down a
week or two ago. It used to stand in the
midst of the fruits of the earth, mostly
oranges, in the Hawkesbury River district.
Ivoree was not insured at the time of the dis-
aster. The family had moved about 18 miles
nearer to our buzzing hamlet, and was living
at Point Clare when the greedy flames de-
voured everything of Ivoree except some
laundry bric-h-brac. Most of the household
gods had been transplanted to Point Clare
before this whack of bad luck hit one of
the most popular amateur orehardists in
those parts. The local inhabitants turned
out to a dog to fight the fire fiend, and the
last surviving wombat tried to put out the
blaze by spanking it with his tail. Nothing
but a mangle or a tub or two remain to
tell the tale. It is rumored that a leading
rat was being given a dinner in the barn
by his supporters and admirers, and that the
dessert, which was a box of wax matches,
blew up.
Didn’t Miss Dorothy Dibbs marry, a
while ago, a brother or something of the
George Ritchie, of the Union Co., who
plighted his troth to Miss Greta Mills the
other afternoon? The Ritchie family is
well and favorably known amongst the "hill-
tops of Dunedin (Maoriland), where the
cab-horse is shod with patent brakes, so that
he won’t fall off the gable or eaves or roof
of the scenery. (If he does fall off, and
comes clawing backwards down the wall of
the scenery, with his cab behind him, and
screaming for assistance as he goes—well,
in that case lie naturally falls into Princes-
street. and a great scatter ensues, and there
is much wild Scotch language.) To resume
after this long parenthesis, the George
Ritchies are honeymooning in Victoria. The
trim, pointed beard and breezy anecdotes of
the. bride’s male parent. David Mills (of the
Union Line of Red Funnels) used to be
minor landmarks in Melbourne. At present
they flourish in this city.
Mosman’s Town Hall surged with enthu-
siasm the other evening when clever
Dorothy Hopkins stood behind her fiddle.
Mosman’s best-known residents filled the
local municipal barn. These premises, by
the way, are too small for the musical emo-
tions of that leafy suburb. The inhabitants,
in consequence, are often driven to seek
shelter in a new hall with a more generous
girth, in Neutral Bay. Dorothy “Hop”
(her proud parent “Hop” Avas in the audi-
ence) plays with temnerament and consider-
able technique. She is a self-possessed
young damsel—an important item in hand-
ling an instrument so likely to get stage
fright as a fiddle —and her bow arm is as
firm and steady as the limb of a seasoned
professional. Musician Arthur Massey was
accompanist. The girl’s best efforts were
Schubert’s “Die Nebensonnen” and Van
Goen’s “Schertzo.” The youthful Marcus
Burkitt. who hovers in the neighborhood of
nine springs, was loaded to his collar stud
with chocolate boxes for his performance at
the piano. W. H. Parkinson uplifted a sil-
very tenor to open the programme. L a n>,
on Dorothy Hop,’ on the fiddle
musician Massey, at the keyboard, aecom
pamed Mr. Parkinson’s upward fliX" •
"Angels Guard Thee.” The flight, however 11
was nearly a funeral, owing to the snail-,:
pace at which the time was dragged 7, <■
Mendelssohn’s massive concerto in E jlin L
was Miss “Hop’s” heavyweight contribution
to the programme. Miss Phyllis Smith
robed in periwinkle blue, and Chas IW
ham were included in the entertainment'
Leila Waddell. Stael and Cyril Monk have
been, in turn, responsible for Miss Hon
kins’s sure technique. Alfred Norman, who
conducts the flourishing Mosman Musical
'Association, and various members of the
same fraternity, were present.
Conductor Alfred Hill is galvanising the
Amateur Orchestral Society into a new lease
of life. Mendelssohn's Italian symphony
was the strong meat of the Society’s concert
the other night. The youthful M.L. pianist
Frank Hutchens, successfully circumvented
all the fiery complications of a Liszt Rhap-
sody with both hands and a rapid pedal at-
tack by both feet. Fiddler W. J. Coad and
Singer Greder W'ere the other soloists.
Nordica’s geranium-red gown, which she
wore at Saturday evening’s concert, is one
of the star items in her vast repertoire of
clothes. It has been built by a genius who
know’s what to do with the fish-tail train.
This appendix is generally like a dirty little
duster at the end of a dance. Being too
flimsy a rag to have a stout lining to cling
to. it wipes up the floor to its own total
destruction. It is all right for the party
from whom it was copied, for the fish keeps
his extremity clean in the water, but a fish-
tail on land is a different thing. The Xor-
dica specimen, however, had a firm steering-
gear, in the form of a weighty knob of itself,
like a silk tassel. This kept the caudal
finislnnept in order, and guided it in a digni-
fied waggle over the white calico that pro-
tects the Amurkan lady’s skirts from a stray
speck of dust on the platform. The ground-
plan of this geranium vision was toned up
by a black tassel or two. A film of black
fell down one side. Any vacant space on
the corsage was sprinkled with diamonds.
Some slender cords of the same stones sup-
ported the base of a leaning tower of black
osprey mn the singer’s chestnut-brown locks.
This red gown is worth several determined
encores.
Tenor Haul Dufault threatens to
eclipse his 1912 record in Maoriland. The
French-Canadian is putting on weight in bis
velvety middle register. If he could be per-
suaded to climb a note or two higher (Jean
de Rescke would help him without a step-
ladder), he would give the public the benefit
of a top C he is still concealing about his
person. A Wagner evening and a Ballad
afternoon wind u r > the present Nordica co.’s
appearances in this town. The musical four
change their spots—unlike the leopard—on
September 3. That is to say. they carry
their vaccination marks to Auckland.
The cocked hat that is like an Admiral’s
best top gear, if he jumped on its sharp
corners and made it a tricorn, is still
perched on some of our best-dressed coiffures.
Grace I’alotta tossed one of these tricky-
looking episodes on her head the other morn-
ing. It went down the street on top of
Grace and in company with one of the
smartest tailor-built costumes (with a
patent leather waist-belt about half an inch
wide) the between season can supply —for a
handsome consideration.
The Royal Art Society’s rooms throbbed
with the first warm day of the season on
Saturday. Private view- day dragged a herd
of invited guests up to the top floor of
Vickery's Chambers, where they simmered
gentlv together in the presence of Art. Dr.
MacKellar came along after the great cata-
logue chase had fainted quietly away on the
doorstep. The printers are alleged to have
been responsible for the fact that a round
dozen or so of the visitors were unable to
buy catalogues at any price. The companv
in consequence stamped round and butted
into anv likely-looking pictures in search of
a signature.
Lister-Lister needs no label to his creamy
sands and colonies of seagulls. Dattilo
Rubbo’s old men can be diagnosed without
aid. Norman Carter’s mother, a plump,
brisk-looking old lady, is painted by her
artist son on a big canvas, not far from a
striking portrait of the veteran Mrs. George
Rankin, by Watkins. The thin, intellectual
face of this well-known lover of Art was
absent from the show in the flesh. For once
Mrs. Rankin has been forced to remember
her 70-odd summers. She is giving way to
some passing ailment in a sick room. Judge
Ileydon took wary snacks of the show behind
his snecs. Mrs. Phillips Fox might have
compared some heavy consignments of R. A.
Societv’s color with the lighter moods of
French artists. G. W. Hadfield, in the
intervals of wearing a small sailor hat. the
property of a joyous grandson (and placed
on his brow by that masterful imp), con-
trived to run a catalogue to earth behind
some secret fastness in the artists’ eyrie. If
was torn from him, however, by the most
able-bodied in his vicinity.
Yours affectionately.
VANDOBIAN.


fp
IftrMll
WMH
(
% \
/A- \
KfV'.
mm
o}
IT 0
WwO
y'
/
C J
o
*2
' •*’4#SW<f
rEar;
\
' s . > '/^
V
X,
o
n
>v
/
V
V~
X" p
mt
vj/<
.^y
\
i;
‘i£i3>
,V
Ur
><ir
sit
*F&zwm ■ > -
ip
t fytjr y
n
-a
1
, ,••••; ../
.P'%‘\A\vP'P-' T . .//-
OVSJViA
•j>j.
ft!?'.
■&.
/
MM
Bpl fSg&t
rWX
m>m
■%
yy
Y
r*
lv
y, -V u
r J x
i-r
3V i
&*3aP;
zn
w®s«e
s
El
£
ts- «• Ms- <- > J 3 ~?—•
«
Cobra ” &f?e Boot PolisK
TINKER
TAILOR
SOLDIER
SAILOR
RICH MAN
POOR MAN
BEGGAR
THIEF
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Marches to the
Grand review.
Blow the trumpets!
Beat the drums
Proudly down the
■ Street he comes 1
Nursemaids on a
Morning cruise
Murmur, “Oh!
I wish my shoes
Were as bright
As Chunder’s boots!
Ev’ry leather
COBRA suits.”


FARHER’S NEW CATALOGUE,
A Complete Compendium
of
Spring Fashions and Household Goods.
It comprises 248 pages, wherein are depicted the many dress needs of
man, woman or child, besides many items of delightful interest to the
housewife. It practically places English and Continental fashions at your
-T^ e splendidly illustrated pages portray made-to-order Gowns, exquisite
Millinery, charming ready-to-wear Frocks, elegant Dust Coats and dainty Blouses
ne '' - Sunshades, smart Neckwear, stylish Gloves, Laces, Underclothing, Men's
and Youths’ Apparel, etc., etc.
And every article shown is representative of that high-grade quality and
sterling value which have made Farmer’s famous.
We shall be pleased to forward a copy, post free, on receipt of vour
name and address. , • ■
E PAY CARRIAGE o n Fashion and
Drapery Goods to Any Part of Australia.
FARiTER’S —SYDNEY,
PITT, MARKET and GEORGE STREETS.
CAUGHT COLD AFTER DANCING.
“Through not wrapping up a'ftet a dance my sister
and I both got bad colds,” says Miss Bertha Scott,
56 Fitzgerald Street, North Perth, W.A. “Father
stocks Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy, and as it had
done him so much good when he had a cold, we
thought we would try it. It gave immediate relief
and quickly cured us, and now we always recom-
mend Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy to our cus-
tomers.”
f
CD
Quality
Tells!
Thousands of Players will
now use nothing else but
DUNLOP
TCNNIS BALLS
experience having proved that
these freshly made high - grade
Balls are unequalled for play and
wear. The huge and growing
demand for “Dunlops” is the surest
sign that the Quality, Construction
and Price is right
Try them Yourself...
and prove their worth!
| ALL LEADING
I SPORTS DEPOTS.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
ALL STATES & N.Z.
Best
for
Comfort ,
J/
WSfP
'E ri 2 •
:">v l s iM
Tired Feet
can easily be avoided by using
DUNLOP
RUBBER HEEIS
They not only absorb all
jarring, but outwear several
pairs of leather Heels ::::
VARIOUS STYLES. ALL BOOT SHOPS.
ACCEPT ONLY “DUNLOP” BRANDS.
m
m
d
CD
(UNtOP RUBBER CO.
ALL STATES ic N.Z.
Best
for
Wear
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, September 1, 1913.
My Dear Yarrie, —
The Agricultural Show is to bring the
ebuntry crowd to town nearly a month
later than the period when the railway
smash happened last year. The weather
will be warmer and the days an hour
longer. Last year 170,000 people “did” the
Show, and it is expected that the setting
back of the dates to September 22-27, and
a more elaborate programme of ring per-
formances, will bring the attendance up to
200,000. The Thursday of Show week has
always been a public holiday, which the
shops mostly didn’t observe. This year a
number of emporium bosses are promising
to turn their employees loose for the first
time.
The possibility of Lord Denman riding
his own geegee to victory or otherwise in a
Steeplechase at Caulfield, this Saturday, is
whispered of. The Denman ambition just
now is to achieve immortal fame as the first
vice-regal personage to play the gentleman
jock character, and win Australia’s heart.
His geegee is named Topmast, or Mizzen
Mast, or Jib Boom, or something, and the
steeplechase it is entered for is reserved for
amateur riders. Seeing that Topmast is a
good jumper, and only a few horses will be
out for the event, sports reckon that his Ex.
will not be taking a foolish risk if he
bestrides the animal on Saturday. He has
“schooled” it over a few jumps on the Caul-
field course, and ridden it at work, just like
one of the professional boys. Anyhow,
he intends to have a go with his
trusty steed. If he doesn’t do his own joc-
keying, the crack amateur horseman, Mr.
Highett, will have the mount. Mr. Highett
rode a horse in the Grand National Hurdle
Race at Flemington a while ago.
,G.-G. Denman, though bereft of his lady,
managed to engineer a children’s party for
young Judith’s sixth birthday. The Bartte-
lot dame, Mrs. Guise and Mrs. Clarke were
the only grown-ups allowed in to help the
helpless Helps. Small Judith wore the usual
party garb of white with a big blue sash.
Tea, buns and dancing were the simple order
of the revel, with a conjurer to top off with.
The magician produced a live canary from
somewhere and put it in a gilded cage. This
fowl of mystery and its prison constituted
Nevill’s present to the lady of the party.
The crowd of British legislators who are
to visit this city anon will not include the
only member of the House of Commons in
whom we are interested. George Doughty,
husband of Eugenia Stone (The Bulletin’s
Melbourne chatterer of yore) has no place
in the pleasure van. George is a more active
man of affairs than most of the approaching
picnickers, and we wanted to see him,
anyhow.
The Forrest dame caught a number of
the Liberal Conference people, on Friday
night, and dined them carefully in the tree-
girt bungalow of the Toorak Turnbulls.
The members of the Ladies’ Kennel Club
will tie up their treasured animals in the
Guild Hall, on September 6, and the pic-
ture _ place will be full of yelps and chain
rattlings. It will be for members’ dogs
only, and outside brutes will not even be
allowed to look in at the door.
Mrs. Shelton, one of the really important
dames of Malvern (it is something to be
important in Malvern), is giving a cflarity
dance right off her own cheque book. The
ambitious venture will convulse Malvern in
the local town hall, on Tuesday evening,
September 16.
Henrv Cornish, a local intellectual who
mixes Maeterlinck with football, gave a
dinner to a crowd of St. Kilda footballers,
after a recent Saturday battle. Henry had
his remarks prepared for a triumph ; but the
team nearly spoilt all by not providing the
triumph. Still, they managed to win after
a final burst. Lawyer Billy Williams was
an honored guest, and when he said some-
thing about giving a dinner himself, he was
nearly deafened by the cheering. They’ve
got healthy appetites, these footballers.
The Gaud Mayor, in a sunset blaze of
gold on a plain of pasteboard, invites the
Best People to a party at the Town Hall, on
September 20, to meet the members of the
Empire Parliamentary Association.
Apparently there are still numbers of
women who cling to the obsolete custom of
having a day at home. Hitherto the Day
has been religiously performed each month
by the wives of professordom at the Univer-
sity; but the new Union Club, within its
brainy borders, is modernising the situation
somewhat by observing every Monday. Some
of the professors’ wives have now announced
to the world that they are dropping their
blessed days, and will _be at home at the
Club on Mondays. This has caused a cer-
tain amount of consternation amongst the
fearfully exclusive cats —the~ ones that
reckon themselves away up on the ridge of
the roof and owners of the principal mouse-
trap. They complain bleakly that, under
the new arrangement, they will be liable to
meet Everybody. What a dreary place the
world must be to these people! Just a few
dukes and duchesses like themselves, and
the rest all horrid spectres.
The Newman Society is an exclusive club
that young people mention with pride if
they happen to be members. The older
members are, without exception, learned
folk who wear spectacles, can spell words
of three syllables, and never count on their
fingers in public. This more or less august
assembly revelled carefully in the St. Ivilda
Town Hall, the other night, under a canopy
smothered in pink clematis till it looked like
a Gippsland bush road. Special attention
was given to the comfort and dignity Of the
chaperones. A big, cosy drawing-room, well
carpeted and filled with downy, cushioned
armchairs and footstools, made the evening
of these almost obsolete creatures quite
happy. They sat heavily, gossiped in top-
notes, and talked brightly of the impending
supper. Mrs. Hennessy, out again after an
illness, wore a frivolous ninon frock. The
poor lady had been wearied by too much
popularity, and looked ever so much better
for the restful interval. Mrs. Alawa
Buchanan galloped into the leading lancers
and performed splendidly. Mrs. O’Donnell
brought a string of daughters, while Mrs.
Shelton personally conducted several sons.
A Toorak hostess lately requested her
guests to bring along photos of themselves
taken in infancy to make an evening game
of Who’s Who? Now a number of women
have a very good idea how old a number of
other women are. Even the dame who se-
lected a picture in which her baby dimples
were unobscured by fashion-dated clothes
didn’t escape. She quite overlooked the
fact that the photographer who took it gave
up business in Melbourne’s stone age. The
really artful woman was a spinster who
borrowed the baby photo of a relative many
years younger than herself.
Dr. Hope and his wife, who are at home
on a wide sheep run in northern New South
Wales, motored through three Australian
States, shipped to and petrolled through
some of India, and then embarked for
Britain, with the deliberate intention of
leaving tracks all over it. Then their much-
bumped car was stolen from under their
noses. It was driven off during a wayside
coffee interval, and with it went the rugs,
travelling bags and other accessories. After
all those speeding weeks, it was just as if
some villain had rushed off with the ances-
tral home.
Charles Littlejohn, son of the headmaster
of Scots’ College, has achieved popularity
amongst the Australians in London. (Be-
fore that he was popular at Oxford.) He
is now doing good work at St. Bartholo-
mew’s Hospital, and if he isn’t popular
amongst the paients and germs there must
be something wrong with them.
The Fairbairns have been informed that
they are grandparents again. Young Mrs.
Captain Balmain, only daughter of the
Cool art family, has presented another son
to her admiring warrior husband. The
baby’s first breath was drawn in foggy Lon-
don, so he’ll appreciate the sunshiny land
of his fathers when he throws down his
rattle in it.
Major Griffiths, the beautifully-decorated
warrior who arrived here as exchange offi-
cer from India, is returning to his job, and
taking his rose-pink-and-white wife with
him. Griffiths, with his Indian fixings, used
to look picturesquely barbaric in our work-
manlike processions, and his leopard-skin
saddle cloth, with the head and claws
dangling, will be sadly missed. Mrs. Henty
gave the pair a good-bye party at Glen
Druid, and the guests rested their intellects
by having a guessing competition.
Members of the Victoria League shrieked
at a recent meeting when they beheld their
dignified secretary, the elder Judge Chomley
daughter, take a header on to the over-
polished floor. Fortunately she wasn’t hurt;
but she had to go home for a rest. The
Masonic floor is always glassy; but on this
occasion it was worse than usual, and many
conversations were cut short with a gasp,
the gasper having suddenly discovered that
her feet were passing away, and that she
was in danger of being left without invis-
ible means of support.
Professor Petersen’s ewe lamb, Leonie,
who has hardly cast off the state of flapper-
dom, is booked for matrimony, in October,
with exchange-officer Mackworth, the tall
captain who has an Irish baronet for a
father and a notorious suffragette for a
sister-in-law. Toorak almost sat down on
its best hat with surprise when the news got
round.
A marriage which looks impressive on
paper has just been cabled to a proud mother
in Melbourne. Victor Buesst, a clever
musician who received practically all his
training in Australia, has been wedded with
elaborate ceremonial to Antonia, the Widow
Wonters of Steen, Chateau de Rubens, Bra-
bant, and about three other domiciles, sheds
or ruins in Europe.
Lionel D’Antoine is another eligible gone
from Melbourne girls. Miss Norah Field, a
fair Tasmanian girl, has booked him for
matrimony, a month hence, at Deloraine, in
the island where the apples grow.
A motored youth hereabouts yearns
towards a very young girl who is “just
dying” to wear his diamond half-hoop be-
fore all the world. The devoted pair confide
their secret in stage whispers to friends over
coffee at the evei-iasting opera, where they
regularly box together, chaperoned by nice
young dames. Then they add, gleefully,
“Father doesn’t know yet!” If they go on
talking about it much longer, father is
bound to hear.
Tumultuous Marshall Hall is missed from
the d.c. at Her Majesty’s these Quinlan
Opera nights. Memories of last year’s
Quinlan carnival, and of the Melba and
“Butterfly” seasons previously are asso-
ciated with visions of the long, lank pro-
fessor of enthusiasm, standing up after each
act and roaring “bravo!” like a mad bull.
His uproar was tiresome as a rule,
for it never varied. The good performances
and the merely middling ones moved him
equally in the matter of noise. The rowdy
prof, was far too apt to overdo it. But now
that he isn’t there the old habitues of the
opera feel like a band that has lost the big
drum, and the management also must be
very conscious of his absence. When the
voices on the stage are not exciting an opera
season wants a chief barracker to blow the
smouldering fires of satisfaction into fitful
flame.
Priscilla Verne, most of whose theatrical
press notices are older than she looks,
arrived back in Melbourne, the other day,
wearing a cerise hat. She has been picking
up American stars for William Anderson,
and travelled to the States on the same boai
as the late J. C. Williamson. In her opinion,
the old theatrical chief might have lived
for another 10 years if he hadn’t left Aus-
tralia. “No one on the boat was surprised
to hear of his death,” she says. “He wai
well when we left Sydney, but we ran into
a typhoon, and he fell ill and could not
regain his tone. He would wander up on
deck in the early hours of the morning—a
restless spirit looking for land. ‘lf I can
only get to land before they sew me up in
canvas and drop me overboard,’ he kept
saying. ‘l'll be right.’ His fellow-passen-
gers did not expect to see him reach San
Francisco.”
Miss Verne managed to pick up eight
stars. She engaged Don Matthews, the
original conductor of “The Land of Nod,”
which Anderson is staging. There are
Birdies, and Maisies, and Eddies amongsi:
the batch, also a person with the front name
of Pheul. Priscilla says she had great fun
interviewing the various applicants. One
woman strode in with an aggressive air
and said, “Before we go any way at all.
can I take my dawg with me? I hear a lot
about the quarantine restrictions in your
country; but I won’t go without my dawg.”
A man applicant asked if Australians under
stood the English language. Priscilla lec-
tured him for his ignorance, but he refused
to be ruffled. “I want to know, you know,
because it’s a mightv long way to go for the
eggs.” The way of the star collector was made
smooth by New York’s beautiful telephone
system. She managed to have satisfactory
long-distance business conversations, while
being fitted for clothes in her hotel bedroom.
One big engagement was clinched over the
wire while a shoplady was hauling at her
corset strings.
Grand-opera first-nighters are wandering
round wearing stunned expressions. There
have been 15 first nights so far, and the
unfortunate seat-holders have either suffered
from musical indigestion or allowed their
half-guineas (paid in advance) to go to
waste, and taken a rest cure at home in a
comfortable armchair. Blessed are the poor!
Thev need not attend culture drill, and their
spare time is their own.
From my Adelaide correspondent:— -
Twenty-five girls, all young and passing fair, more
or less, gave a dance in the North Adelaide Institute
last week. Mrs. Poulton, in blue satin, veiled with
black ninon; and Mrs. McMillan, in black, received
the guests on behalf of the hospitable 25. They were
either too (1) bashful or too (2) busy to do it them-
selves. The school next door was used as a supper-
room, and further food and drink were supplied in a
marquee opening off the ballroom. Also, I believe,
there was whisky to be had in an adjacent hostelry,
and lemonade in a room over the way. Our girls do
hit things up when they get really going. Amongst
the revellers were Mrs. H. H. Wigg and her daughter,
Miss Helen Waterhouse, Mrs. Girdlestone, Mrs. Roy
Melin, Mrs. Stanley Murray (in an effective frock of
maize-colored brocade), Mrs. Cowan, Mrs. Robert-
son, Miss May Duncan (whose dress of white chiffon
was mounted over pink), Mrs. F. J. Fisher, Miss
Margaret Huges, and about 2+ tons more female love-
liness than I have room for in this crowded column.
Matrimony has been breaking out in the most un-
expected places. For example, Mr. Herbert Phillips,
the philanthronist, is shortly to espouse Miss Ander
son, of the Y.W.C.A. (I don’t seem to have put this
over happily, but let it pass.) Messrs. James Mar-
shall and Birks are likewise to face the wedding
music ere long. All three are widowers and men of
substance.
Miss Marjorie Lowe, who has put in several cheery
weeks here, has gone back to Westralia.
Mrs. Montgomery Orr has arrived from Sydney, to
stay with her brother, Mr. John Labatt.
Most of the usual racegoers were at the last day
of the A.R.C. Grand National meeting. To get down
to details, I identified Mrs. Crozier and her daughter,
the Hawkers and McFarlanes, Mrs. Reg Colley, Mrs.
O’Leary, the Bowmans, Mrs. Kyffin Thomas, Mrs.
Maxwell Fowler, Miss Muriel Starr, Mrs. A. J.
McLachlan, Mrs. H. S. Newland, Mrs. Burston and
Miss Culross.
Miss Boothby and her sister asked about 20 people
to tea at the May Club on Tuesday in honor of Mrs.
George Coates. The guest consumed her portion of
the meal in a low-necked black velvet garment, sur-
mounted by a black hat. The Coates pictures are
selling well. Are we not a highly-cultured commun-
ity ? And, in any case, did not Lady Bosanquet open
our visitors’ private view on Friday?
Our champion golfers are all in Melbourne. You
know their tremendous mission better than I can tell
it to you. On the principle that “they also serve
who merely,” etc., etc., we are waiting and praying
for them, and watching with straining eyes (ah,
how eagerly!) the daily telegrams from the seat of
the trouble. Heaven send that all may be well.
Special orisons and so on are being sent up for Mrs.
Maxwell Fowler, who, by some scurvy triok- ~
lost the Seaton championship to Mrs Mc4rtt ' ate ’
the touchingly illiterate phraseolosrv of is Iu
Norman, “Priez pur ell”—meaning, 0 f C our» \ a / ly
Maxwell Fowler. °urse, Mrs.
Wattle Day has come and gone once more n
the other hand, that other much-mooted fL' °, n
yclept Bottle Day, remains mysteriously in fl hf Stlval,
despite the frenetic attempts of the
push it along. They are handicapped by b e in* t 0
garded as interested parties. Bottle Dav W o ul s re !
course, be followed by Crayfish Evening and fiw
Night. Hence the enthusiasm of the deaW - r
marine goods on behalf of this great cause— or "1
any rate, say their critics. at
A dreadful thing happened the other evening .
Crystal Brook, a northern township full 0 f wh ,
ears. There was to be a “grand military ball ”Ta
the popular Bosanquet was to be present rv \ ,
Brook prepared to do itself proud. It raked t™
ther the nearest approach to an orchestra that it hi
ever seen, and the orchestra prepared to burst m t
into the usual dreadful old ditty when his Ex w
sighted. The military officer of the district was t!
stand at the door and wave a command. The <r
tinguished visitor hove in sight. He entered Th
Army waved the command. The orchestra began tn
play like mad. The distinguished visitor amblwi
along affably. Crystal Brook was on its loyal feet
Then somebody shook the distinguished visitor bv the
hand and called him Bill. Or it may have been
Dick. He hauled up and waited. The orchestra
went on playing like mad. Then a terrible doubt
laid hold of the man who had given the word of
command. He inquired. “Him!” somebody
“Him ! Why, that’s old .” And “old d
was, a nice old chap from a neighboring townshin
who builds cottages and coffins, and is illustrious
enough to have once been the local mayor.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.


I SHHIii
<
m
•*■ ** * .
S' .
... v I
; - ‘ r••
IfS; v.
1 wmm
fM V / g
• a
.•
«■ < f*
; ;
*?#. v* . *. 1
wm
:
Lb
By the authorities
on Modern Science
\
\
\
.v .
has been proved
the best for
■
■K&
mMr V *
7%
wm
i •,
■
mt-
..
Odd does more than cleanse and
beautify the teeth; it preserves them from
decay.
Odol refreshes the whole mouth to the point of exhilaration,
keeps the gums healthy and free from tenderness, and delightfully
perfumes the breath.
And by a remarkable property, peculiar to Odol alone, it
permeates the lining membrane of the entire oral cavity with its
protective antiseptic elements, leaving the mouth proof for hours
afterwards against the attacks of injurious bacteria, which, if not
carefully guarded against, inevitably destroy the teeth.


y Children thrive (j
and grow Strong
ANgier@mulsioN
)
Of Chemists, 1/3, 2/9 and 4/6.
There is nothing better for a delicate child than a course
of Angler s Emulsion. It makes the little ones eat better,
digest better, sleep better and rapidly gain in weight, strength
and colour. Doctors prescribe it for coughs bronchitis,
whooping cough and all lung affections ; also for scrofula
rickets, malnutrition and for wasting diseases generally!
Angier s Emulsion is pleasant to take and children all like it.
Send for free Sample; enclose 4d. postage and mention this paper
ANGIER CHEMICAL Co., 7 Barrack St., Sydney, N.S.W.
a
Don’t run away with the idea
that SPARKLETS are only valu-
able in the summer. For instance,
whiskey is in season from January 1
to December 31, and the best of
whiskey is still better with the
addition of
“SPARKLETS”
TRY IT
c. Syphons, 0/0.
B. Syphons, 4/-
B. Bulbs, I/O dozen.
C. Bulbs, 2/3 dozen.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
FAT.
MICRO: “Any bottles or bones to-day?"
MRS. JONES: “Abo, none!"
MICRO: “Well, any fat, lady?"
JONES (heartlessly): “Go on, Maria—he's
asking for you."
“W.J.H.” : Old John Maori and I struck
up a conversation in the train and, on his part, most
of it consisted of eulogy of his son. “Te werry
clever boy that,” he said. “He at te school down
I‘oneke (Wellington) ,e corridge. He send te letter
las week, ask me send te money for two pair of
what you call him? You know, I suppose.” I told
him I had no idea. “Oh, yes, you know the thing.
I tell you what te name; some town in Maoriland ”
T , “ana.
h^n Ck tb nd ’ Z i SU f ggeSted not te Akarana; I
saTd “No 6 ’no lsl ™! h Sr T' // Wanganui> ” 1
VVetlini “«J ? S ? e I" boat - race ” “Well
ellington. No, that where te boy is. Well then,
/Lht °T S ° Ut i h rf r 1 x SOme place there aU
“No 4” v, he -? eP !!r d ; 1 started Wlth Christchurch,
edin?” he “No ld ’ont th een te T raCeS tbat plaCe ” “Dun-
pd"?p, i N ’ }, hear te ba @:Pipes there.”
h ™xr rS? i 1 , sald ’ , That te Place!” he voci-
ferated. My boy he send te letter for me to send
lm two pair Port Chalmers for him to sleep in!”
* *
From an Australian student in England :
Of the making of serums there is no end. First
Friedmann claimed to have scotched the übiquitous
tubercle bacillus by means of his turtle serum, and
now comes Mehnarto. The latter was a co-worker
with Koch in S’Afriea, and seems to have stumbled
on what he calls the “contra-serum” while fighting
the ravages of sleeping-sickness. Either he was
more diplomatic or less offensive than Friedmann,
d r ene % he ,nore evi-
dence, at any rate, the medical profesh seems to be
lending a passably willing ear to his claims. This
serum is being tested at the Dreadnought Hospital
in Greenwich, and also at a private sanatorium here
at Weston-super-Mare. Its results on two patients
—third-stage cases—personally known to me, are ai
yet distinctly favorable. Friedmann, at present in
America, is concealed in a cloud of impending liti-
gation and conflicting reports. The Government,
however, has appointed a commission, whose first
report, just issued, states that up to the present
results obtained with the turtle serum do not
bear out previous claims. As one claim was that a
single injection made you step out of your coffin and
kick a football, that may well be, without the
remedy being altogether useless. Meanwhile tuber-
culin is now in universal use, and that is 75 per
cent, of the battle against this generation’s deadliest
enemy.
* * • *
”9-3-11”: Kindly add to the list of im-
ported vegetable devils, paspalum, the grass which
the North Coast (N.S.W.) cocky up till recently
relied upon as a friend in need and a joy upon the
face of the landscape. Now he finds that it has
become matted on the surface of the ground, has
sucked the life out of the soil most favorable to its
growth, and is dying. But in death its curse and the
cocky are, unfortunately, not divided. Even on the
alluvial flats ploughing cannot be contemplated
because of the mass of fibrous roots. At the Farm-
ers’ Conference, held at Sydney lately, a proposal
was made that the Government should be asked
to serve out some cheap explosive to blast the land
into a more tractable condition, but it is mere con-
jecture whether the suggested means would produce
the desired result. It would be a strenuous under-
taking, anyhow. Getting rid of these foreign curses
generally is.
* * • •
‘ Tiaki”: Some of the old Maoriland
savages were made of tough stuff. Mahurangi was
a great warrior and a howler of long range. While
sleeping in the bush one day he was captured by a
hostile tribe. Being at once invited to
attend a great feast to be held in his honor,
he was duly led up to the great haangi or
“copper-Maori,” the heated stones glowing
in the great hole like a young volcano. Just
as his hosts were preparing to heave him in,
he gave a sudden shout and flung his captors
to right and left. Then urgent business
called him away, and he departed suddenly.
The anthropophagi gradually \atormed a
crescent in the rear of the flying nsat. There
was no escape. Right in front was a sheer
drop of two or three hundred feet, and
Mahurangi preferred the fall to the fire.
He sprang clear into the air and fell —into
the bushy top of a karaka tree. The pur-
suers built a fire on the brink (it was then
dark) and flung burning brands down to
show where the prospective meal had
jumped off. Some of the embers fell on the
meal’s naked body, but he dared not move.
Next morn, as the grey dawn quivered faintly
over the hills, a voice came out of the mist,
and the figure of the evanescent “meat” loomed
up ghostly and large on an adjacent height.
The owner of the voice remarked that he
would return inside of two moons and go
into the matter further with a view to settle-
ment. But Mahurangi was strategic, and re-
turned inside of two suns, and then there
was a smoke concert intermingled with lamen-
tations and long pig, for the old warrior
cooked his captors in their own haangi.
Tamati Torori will show you to this day the
identical karaka tree (a different one on each
occasion) as proof of this story. He will
also show you the adjacent pub. (About
the pub he never varies.)
» * * *
“Gouger” : With a friendly eye the hatter
watched his mates. One was a large, dark toad,
which sat on its haunches on one of the hearth-
stones, observing with bright, solemn eyes the antics
of a curiously piebald rat. The rat was endeavoring
to reach a piece of brownie, suspended by a string
from a rafter. The brownie was just in reach of the
rat’s paws when standing on its hind legs, but each
time the acrobat made a bite the string would get
into motion, causing the disgusted rodent to fall
back once more. Presently he ran up one of the
kitchen posts, along a rafter directly above the
string. There was a click as his strong little teeth
snapped. The old man broke into a roar of laughter.
The string was tied to a piece of wire. But
presently the rat began to climb cautiously down
the swaying strand. The hatter let him get half-
way, then held a firestick near the brownie. The rat
stood it for a while, turning his head this way and
that, but soon the thick smoke made him jump from
the string. He took up Jiis stand again directly under
the brownie, just as a shrill, piercing cry came from
a tree directly above the humpy. The toad’s little
eves twinkled brighter, and the rat’s ears went up
in a listening expression, like those of a startled
wallaby. The old hatter looked solemn. “Hear
that, Charlie?’’ he said. “That’s our night hawk.
And he s a-lookin’ for you. Ain’t you glad you’re
livin’ with me in a nice, cosy hut, eatin’ brownie,
instead of bein’ out in the cold scrub, with the night
hawk eatin’ you? But it’s time to go ter roost
Here’s yer brownie.” He cut down the piece of
brownie, and stroked the eating rat kindly. The toad
came over with a heavy flop for his share of the
caress; and then sat gazing thoughtfully into the
fading fire while the ancient turned in.
* *
* *
“J. 8.”: Little brother ’possum has been
finding the struggle for existence undulv strenuous
of late in Maoriland. His friends, the Acclimatisa-
tion Societies, are passing round the hat on his
AN INFORMAL AFFAIR.
HOSTESS: “Really, my dear friend, you should not
have dressed for dinner. I told you we were
only a family party."
behalf, and any kindly soul who drops in a fresh
gum-leaf will have his reward. Back in 1858 the
black species from Tassy was introduced to the
Southern districts, and this event was followed by
the introduction and gradual distribution of the
grey variety, the object being to develop a profitable
fur industry. At first, the Government provided
close protection to the marsupial, but he increased
and multiplied so vigorously that that eternal
calamity-howler, the cocky, thought he saw hollow-
eyed ruin staring him in the whiskers. The upshot
of the cocky’s shrieks for help was the withdrawal
of protection from ’possum, and since then (1902)
poison, the gun and other exterminators have been
more or less relentless. Now, it is being
screw-jacked into the agitated Backbone of the
country that the little furry neighbor is not so much
an enemy as an asset. A fair estimate is, that off
waste bush land (and the Great Ranger knows there
is enough of it in M.L.) 40 ’possums a year could
be taken. With dressed skins bringing 15s. to 18s.
each, this is a prospect that appeals to the settler
on his most flexible side. Wherefore, the forth-
coming application for protection to the ’poss’ for
nine months in the year is not likely to raise undue
opposition.
POSITIVE PROOF.
ACTOR-MANAGER: " How is it, sir, you have
not advertised our coming?"
ADVANCE AGENT: " But I have."
ACTOR-MANAGER: “ Impossible, sir. I have
been in this town now three-guarters of
an hour, and have not yet had one request
for a free pass."
‘G.V.W.”: To tell the average Maori-
lander that salt mines are included in his great
natural resources is to call tenders for uncompli-
mentary remarks. Still, the truth is mighty and
will prevail—unless it is bought off. The mines
are situated in the S.W. of Marlborough (top of the
South Island) and are worked by sheep. These
animal* first learned to drink the saline fluid from
a series of springs, and afterwards took to chewing
the salt clay along the terraces. Where the terrace
is of sufficient height a tunnel is generally worked.
One is 60ft. to the face; and several are 9ft. or
10ft. high. I have seen three-year-old sheep with
teeth worn to the gums, but in the average animal
the molars last much longer. It is a joyous thing
to see a rush of 40 or 50 beasts to get out of a
tunnel on the arrival of a shepherd. Nothing equals
it but the performance which follows the appearance
of an agile policeman at a pub 10 minutes after
closing time.
* * * *
“Gouger” : When short of a fishing line, the
Daintree River (Q.) Binghi uses a strand of lawyer
vine. Mostly it is about 20ft. long and as strong
as the tales of the Wimmin’s Political League. The
prickles are left on one end and a large scrub worm
is attached to one of the barbs—very unwillingly
on the part of the worm. The bait is then pushed
overboard and sufficient time allowed the fish to
thoroughly swallow it. As Charles Garbage says,
“I leave the rest to my fair reader’s imagination.”
The Binghis catch crayfish with the vine. The
leaves are stripped, the point tapered and held in-
vitingly before the marine fowl. Being highly in-
quisitive, the submarine eagle gradually approaches,
holds out his claws for a grip, then opens his
mouth for a taste. A light tap on the rear end of
the stick, and the sharp end has gone clear down
his throat. The cray vulture’s surprise is painful to
witness. He says in his excitement that the whole
affair is unprecedented.
* * * *
“Leo Lear” : I wish to gently remonstrate
with “Cooladee” (B. 31/7/’l3), who set fire to the
big nest of the unique but fast-disappearing shy
mallee hen for no particular reason. He is possessed
of devils and gorged of bullfrogs. His ancestors
were in the same class as the griffin and the Peruvian
dog, and his bald-headed grandfather devoured
thistles according to the law of nature. Thus one
understands the kind of freak “Cooladee” is, and
reproves him with mildness. The mallee fowl is
purely Australian, only being found in the mallee
scrubs. Moreover, the family to which it belongs
blesses the Australian bird region with 27 species of
th« 28 known to the satellite. The other somehow
was chucked, blown or born on the west side of the
p'eat world crack—Wallace’s Line—and hangs out
in Java. Twelve years ago most of the Victorian
Mallee abounded with the mound-builder, and I've
seen half a dozen nests on one sandhill. Now, the
bird is a rarity over most of the vast Mallee tracts.
They have been pushed back and exterminated by
(1) settlement; (2) foxes, which are the deadliest
foe; (3) damphools. In a few years there won’t be
a mallee fowl left alive in Australia excepting on
Kangaroo Island, where the South Aus. Government
has a national reserve. Good Australians will be
glad to know that the colony is doing well; others
can leap through a hangman’s noose with two grind-
stones tied to their ankles.
(Continued on page 2f)
THE MAIDEN’S PREY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Melbourne Argus urges that the local immigration
department might, with propriety, take up the busi-
ness of a matrimonial bureau. It holds that a suit-
able response should be made to those young women
who write from England, inquiring if husbands are
provided. One recent correspondent (her name was
Agnes) asked: “Do you know of any nice young man
who is lonely ? I feel sure there are some poor
fellows miles away from anywhere who want cheering
up.”
On ranges high, in forests far,
And where the mirage waters flit,
A crowd of such young chaps there are,
Who’d do with cheering up a bit.
Perhaps on reading this they’ll scoot
To send Miss Agnes their address,
With photographs, and plans of route,
And weekly earnings. If they suit,
Good-bye to all their loneliness.
The papers praise the spirit fine
Which spurs the maidens to their quest;
They’ll go where looms the mountain pine,
Or to the diggings in the West.
To any old extreme they’ll go
To catch a man of any shape,
And cheer the rascal up—although
That’s just what half those blokes we know
Have gone out backwards to escape!
VICTORIA.
SNELL.


» - -.nr- ■ ■ ■ ~ IL .n.Py j' l'J rn. jtr.y-- - ■ -
**!&!■*
>
'
V.-:
r"= - i - -
■> :■
i-j.v
i; -. j
warn
a&ssuMsimmm
M
:
ab
4
B
wiirn
m
I
K
' ','r
r-+
Saras
Lr-"' ’ -!?
:.t*«**
.-
G
12
•• ■'
. yi
m ■■
gj 1 ■ m
*'•*■'
4Kfe x
; i fi
II
it
#X
/i
V
**
CHIEF OFFICES AND PART OF FACTORY
ANNAN DALE. NEAR SYDNEY. N.S. WALES.
A
8 \s la e mi fir
am// a///' rc'/(<>'fc/’(r//rf>st ' -/j^/
aaa/ /</ ///A amk//M mm/ a/a
._. An/
/ > V/e/rA* y"* y /mm/Aa/a/ m/a/a/ j/rt/ <A^A//At/A^ l €Mt/ua/
M r //tA r //_ /a?// Ay/, A/Z/MA/Z/^AAiA/ /mm// m/sa/ ///
/ ’a'/aa/Aa/m///// Aaa//a/ ////*,/a/A'///a/ /AMyiAfrAMy am// yyt/tA' //
az/ //a'/^/^ca/za^ //Laz ez/y/^/Ay/Z/e/MiA z /c/z/aaaaa z//am/Z
AZ/t/AiAXAM/nZAyZ(z/Z/e/AZt/AyZ^iAMZu/aAA/.
<^///iAMAA/ze/,AA//ie4^Ay/AMA€/zZ/Az//z€Zf€yiAe9zZ -
/ V/ /e /7cZ/yZz^A/ZZZ/lee/ t
c ziaa/'A ///La/iaw; //> _, </// //
/ y /
%/Z /Aa/a/ a/a Ta/ma/^a,
l/AZ
CtcMeAW/U'
'/ey^^^/ryioAAij
FREE LIFE
INSURANCE.
FUTURE purchasers of Beale
Pianos may obtain upon
application a free insurance
certificate as per illustration, so
as to set aside, as far as may be,
the financial effect of dire mis-
fortune, The intent is to relieve
the mind of the breadwinner
from anxiety lest a much desired
acquisition for his family, of
permanent value, and saleable,
might become a burden if not
fully paid for. Seventeen
thousand Beale Pianos have
already been sold.
BEALE & CO. LTD.
136 a & 136 b LIVERPOOL STREET (opposite Mark Foy's), SYDNEY.
273 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
127 RUNDLE STREET, ADELAIDE, S.A. 839 HAY STREET, PERTH, W.A.
90-92 QUEEN STREET, opposite Pike Bros., our new and ONLY Address In BRISBANE.
Branch Offices at Newcastle, Bathurst, Orange, Wagga and Broken Hill, N.S.W. ; Maryborough, Rockhampton, Mackay and Townsville, Queensland ; Kalgoorlie, W.A.
Head Office and Factories: TRAFALGAR STREET, ANNANDALE, SYDNEY.
25 Years’ Guarantee.
Cash or Easy Terms.
Repairs and Tuning.
Save Importers’ Profits by Buying Direct from the Manufacturers.


TfIRRfINTS
MELBOURNE.
The BIGGEST & BUSIEST MOTOR HOUSE in Australia.
Enormous Stock of Accessories always on hand.
Builders of the Best Motor Bodies.
MOST UP-TO-DATE REPAIR WORKS.
T
ARRANT MOTORS PTY. LTD.,
Agents in Victoria for Fiat, F.N., Ford, 8.5. A.,
Mercedes, Rover, Austro-Daimler, Sunbeam,
Adler, Commer, Thornycroft,
104-112 Russell St., and 186-192 Exhibition St., Melbourne.
’Phones—3o3o, 2942, 6280, 5534, 3100.
A
J
The telephone converts the spoken words into
silent electrical impulses. In a single Bell telephone
cable, a hundred conversations can be carried on
side by side without interference. Each conversa-
tion is led through a system of wire pathways to
its proper destination, and whispers its message into
a waiting ear. Without such service, both citv and
country life would be far less endurable. Phillips
Ormonde & Co., patent agents, Lombard Buildings,
17 Queen St., Melbourne.*
A WONDERFUL FLESH BUILDER.
PHYSICIAN’S DISCOVERY ENABLES
THIN PEOPLE TO PUT ON TWO TO
THREE POUNDS A WEEK.
Special Medical Reports, Paris. —That ex-
cessive thinness is due to the inability of the
digestive organs to properly assimilate food
has long been known ; it has, however, re-
mained for Professor Muller, the eminent
scientist and investigator, to discover that
this weakness of the digestive organs is pri-
marily due to lack of nerve force, and to tell
to the world how that lack of nerve force
may be corrected, and thin people, men or
women, old or young, enabled to put on two
to three pounds a week, and become fat,
plump, strong and healthy. Professor Mul-
ler says this may be done without change of
diet, exercises, etc. All he finds necessary
is to strengthen the nervous system, and for
this purpose he recommends a special nerve
food and flesh builder which can be pre-
pared by any chemist, consisting of soz.
Tincture of Cardamoms Compound 8.P.,
2oz. Salrado Compound, 3oz. Elixir Simplex,
and water. One to two tablespoon-
fuls should be taken a few minutes before
each meal, and almost from the beginning
you will note an increased feeling of energy,
vitality and reserve force. This nerve food
is also very beneficial in overcoming the
ravages of tuberculosis, and by some has
been claimed to actually cure consumption.
Because of its nerve and flesh-building pro-
perties it is invaluable in all such wasting
troubles as catarrh, stomach or liver
troubles and neurasthenia; but, naturally,
should not be taken by those who for any
reason object to increasing their weight.*
“Tim Fogarty”: “Catamain’s” argument
(B. 19/6/T3) that tubercle is rife amongst cattle
because the breeders are trying to increase the milk
flow, cannot be entertained. You do not get an in-
creased supply of milk by malnutrition and inbreed-
ing, but by judicious feeding and selection. “Cata-
main” also says that the more milk a cow gives the
weaker she becomes, until, eventually, she will have
A GRAVE DANGER.
TINTENBAR JOEY (scratching): “Plenty fright-
ened. Bin gettem small-po n, mine tinkit. ”
BULLOCKY : “That’s nothing to be afraid of,
Joey. It won't kill you.”
TINTENBAR JOEY: “No, by Cripes, but make
it face look too ugly.”
to be propped up. Against this allegation there is
the famous De Kol breed of Holsteins, which not
only are the world’s record-holders for quantity of
milk yielded, but also are show cattle. The reason
for the spread of tubercle in cattle is the cocky’s
repugnance to testing his herd, in case he might
have to put ,a few cows out of their misery. Tubercle
is not an hereditary diesase; but a calf that sucks a
tuberculous mother for only half a minute has a
heap of luck if it doesn’t become infected, too.
“Eddyson” : E. Elwood was right down to
it. He was motherless and stony, his nosebag was
empty, his dog was starved, and his feet had gone
back on him. The hunt for a job had been going on
for a fortnight, and had dragged him over about one-
third of the map of Victoria. He sat down by the
roadside and pondered bitterly. While Edward sat
and suffered, and swore, his dog Dodo whined fever-
ishly, and scratched with insane energy at the foot of
a dead gum butt. Edward Elwood paid no heed to
the animal’s exuberant folly till something kicked
out behind hit him on the ear. Then he only addressed
Dodo by name, with a few petulant impieties. Dodo
went on scratching, and whining, and yapping, kick-
ing his loose dirt out aft with even greater spring
and virility, and presently Ned got another blow on
the neck. He turned this time, and reached for a
rock ; but before he could get his good work in on
the dog, his eye fell on the object that had hit him.
It was a sovereign—a bright new sovereign. There
was another on the fold of his coat, and five more
dotted the grass. As he gazed, open-mouthed and
motionless in his desperate amazement, Dodo kicked
change for a fiver straight into his face. In precisely
the twentieth part of a second E. Elwood had dis-
placed his dog Dodo, and was pawing in the excava-
tion. Two seconds’ mining produced an old brown
felt hat full of money. Elwood did not wait to won-
der ; he had no time for problems. A bit of coin had
come to him. His not to reason why, his not to
make reply; it was up to him to shift it, and to
shift it as far as possible before set of sun. He
stowed the hatful of quids and things in his swag,
pulled on his boots, and forgot his feet and all his
other sorrows. He went west, young man. He moved
with celerity. His spirit was refreshed. The world
seemed a fit and proper habitation, after all. Elwood
had covered one mile and a distance when the two
mounted police overhauled him. They wanted to
know where he had spent last night. They were full
of impertinent curiosity, and doubts, and suspicions.
Edward was hauled back to Glover’s to substantiate
his statement that he had spent the night in the
shearers’ hut there. Glover testified to that effect;
two employees of Glover’s were prepared to swear on
nine Bibles that the swagman produced had not left
the hut between the hours of nine at night and six in
the morning. Elwood was released, and resumed his
westward tendency. For a man with sore feet and a
great lack of sustenance he got over the long measure
with wonderful efficiency. At Tollbar he had a meal.
At wee Wee he took train for Melbourne. Settled in
a humble room in a Port boarding-house, Edward El-
wood had time to look about him and grasp facts. He
gathered from some excited remarks in the Herald
that the bank at Sheepskin had been robbed of £212
in gold and silver on the 11th, or early on the morn-
ing of the 12th. He counted and found there was
£2lO in the old brown hat. Sheepskin was a town-
ship two miles and a quarter from Glover’s house at
Back Creek. Elwood recognised the old brown felt
as Glover’s hat, but he said never a word. He was
not the man to betray a poor cocky who had greatly
befriended him.
“Gouger”: I was referee, time-keeper,
bottle-holder and audience at one of the rarest
fights in N.Q. records the other day. A black-
backed, red-bellied water-snake (a deadly variety)
was watching me intently from the bank of a shal-
low creek as I manoeuvred to get a shot at him.
The water was as crystal, and suddenly over his
nibs’s back a big green eel appeared. Instinct must
have made the snake turn his head,
and in l-33rd of an instant he dived
under the bank and wedged himself
in between the roots of a tree. Pok-
ing his head through an opening, he
swayed it viciously to and fro while
the eel bit savagely and cursed in
seven watercress dialects. For 10
minutes neither beast had the advan-
tage, the snake slipping between the
roots with marvellous swiftness at
every rush of the eel. Then the eel
used tactics. Pressing through the
root spaces he slowly jambed Jack
Johnson on the ropes and swung a
dazzler. I started to count, and got
as far as the “o” in one when the
snake, like a streak of buttered elec-
tricity, coiled round and round the
other’s body, and bashed his tusks
into the back of the big head 19 to
the dozen. The eel wheeled round
and round in the water in circles,
plunging, splashing, snapping, but
unable to break away. The betting
was any odds on snake, when more
tactics by eel brought the end. Sight-
ing a narrow opening between two
rocks, he dashed through at ex-
press speed, and literally tore the enemy from
his hold. The little black fellow made for the
bank again, but the distance was too great. There
was one snap as the eel caught up and half a snake
slid into the downstairs cupboard. The other half
followed just as easily. It didn’t even bump on the
bottom step.
“Tiaki” : The Maori is chafing against the
stringent measures adopted by the authorities since
the small-pox outbreak in the North to restrict his
peregrinations. The old men of the tribes reckon
that the “smoora-pox” is nothing more than toretiti,
a skin disease that used to attack the brown man’s
pelt and leave a few holes in it. Before the pakeha
came, Henare had very few ailments, but, in about
the year 1782-3, a vessel was wrecked at Palliser
Bay, and the local cannibal society promptly added
roast crew to the menu. Unfortunately, some of the
meat was suffering from a strange disease, and, on
being stowed away in the brown bingys, turned on
the unsuspecting natives with such deadly effect that,
out of 700 men only a few survived. In one bay
where 300 representatives attended the “long pig”
conference, only two survived. Henare called the
disease te upoko o te rewharewha, but it stalked
THE COLOR GRADE.
right on. The provisions were Scotch, and personified
the first recorded attempt, according to Tregear, in
“The Maori Race,” to form a colony in M.L. There
were 60 in the party.
* * * *
“Gouger”: Scattered over the breadth of
North Queensland, wherever happens to be an iso-
lated little township, are numerous tribes of the
semi-civilised aboriginal, with the congregated man-
hood fast going to waste, owing to the flapdoodle
teaching of the missionary and the opium-charcoal
and diseases of the Chow. What I want to know
is why this good material (for it is good material
in its natural condition) should not be welded into
the defence scheme. According to missionary
statistics there are at present 80,000 known blacks
in Northern Australia. Surely, from that number
there could easily be drawn a few thousand men,
whose disciplined aid would be very welcome in the
time that is sure to write its wrinkle on the azure
brow of things in general. Fighting is the one
thing in our civilisation which the aboriginal can
understand; and he is an adept at learning any-
thing his brain can comprehend. He is a good
horseman, and, what is only generally known to
bushmen who are used to natives, a first-class shot,
whenever he has been enabled to practise with a
rifle. He is inured to the roughest of hardship, i.e.,
travelling long distances over bad country where
food and water are scarce, and, what will count
mightily in the coming guerilla struggle, he will be
able to find his tucker after the regimental com-
missariat has been boiled down for its axle grease.
If the Government erected large schools in the
vicinity of the more numerous tribes, raked in the
young men, clothed them in a cheap and suitable
uniform such as they love to wear, fed them on
good, plain food, drilled them and taught them how
to shoot, they would develop a defence unit of
great assistance on the day the school kids are
suddenly told to put their slates away and go out
and save the old man’s scalp. Of the aboriginal’s
courage there is plenty of evidence all over Aus-
tralia, and his willingness, when led and praised
by the white man, would make him a foe equal to
a herd of half-caste devils and octoroon demons.
»'* * *
“Kola”: Tommy Tanna has struck fresh
trouble. The New Hebrides are overrun with mission-
aries, chiefly Presbyterian, who have played the
deuce with Tommy’s happiness. His sing-sings have
been abolished; and he has been driven to wear
clothes he hates. But the last straw was laid on his
back recently, when a Christadelphian mission was
established on one of the principal islands. The Christ-
adelphians are vegetarians, and they are calling on
Tommy to give up not only his pig, but all flesh,
and even fish ; and to live on yams and taro. Tommy
doesn’t like it; as he puts it: “Missionary plenty
big fool.” But the queer brethren insist that the
meat-eaters will frizzle in perdition when they die,
and they have already coaxed a few timorous nigs to
tread the narrow, pig-less path, and given plenty of
others a dreadful scare.
At the foot of a tree on a possum farm
block in the Leeuwin Peninsula (W.A.) the bone,
a man, also boots, buttons and scraps of elnU, *
discovered the other day. A wire noose
from the tree, and all these things are said to
gest that the owner of the bones must have
himself many years ago. In America the S uw«
tion would be that he was lynched.
ART AND LETTERS.
BOW: “Did that top G sound a triple flat?"
BRUSH: “ G, was it? It sounded to me like L."
“Silas Snell”: When the Rev. James
Alfey received a call to Pigoreet, he thought the
Lord was being good to him. He presently began to
change his mind, and Miss Emma Bayles was en-
tirely responsible for his waning faith. The Rev.
James Alfey was a small, pathetic, blonde clergy-
man, tow-headed, and possessing a marked facial re-
semblance to a distressed gazelle in’ spectacles.
Miss Emma Bayles was a short, plump damsel of 20,
in rude health, with red hair and effective hands
and feet, holder of the Pigoreet milking record, and
champion in her class at turnip-digging and plain
sewing. With a running start she could: wring a
large red cow quite dry in 120 seconds. It took
Emma three Sundays to work from a back seat in
the church right up to a front pew, dead centre,
drawn by the irresistible attraction of the Rev.
James Alfey. Thereafter she was a source of con-
sternation and painful distraction to the presiding
clergyman. She sat right under his eye, and gaped
up at him in a state of adoration that put him off
his subject, made him forget his text, mislay his
“seventhly, dearly beloved brethren,” and entirely
overlook his peroration. It was no use his trying
to ignore Emma while staring fixedly at the other
end of the church. Ten minutes of such behavior
reduced Em to tears, and she would sob and snuffle
noisily to the detriment of the service and the utter
subordination of all holiness. Emma had another
bad habit, too; she would put love letters in the
plate, and when the Rev. Alfey expostulated with
her she fainted heavily, and permitted him to be
discovered with a collapsed damsel on his hands. If
in the course of his sermon the poor young clergy-
man made any very touching or pointedly sentimental
remarks, Emma was shaken to her centre, and
uttered a loud, dolorous barking, or made sobbing
and squashy noises, and simply smothered the rest
of the deliverance. She persisted, too, in leaving
presents of woollen slippers in the pew in the most
pointed manner, and on several occasions she met
James at the church portal with billies of cream.
She would put eggs on his doormat, or sit on the
step nursing a cheese or a melon, publicly awaiting
his home-coming. Mr. Alfey had been officiating at
Pigoreet just three months when Emma’s brother
Sam called to see him. “You know, it’s about Em,”
Sam said mysteriously. “See, it ain’t the same ez
if she’d be a drag on a man, she bein’ champyin’
middle-weight milker, ’n’ good et the plain sewin’,
She’d bring you a tidy bit of land, too. Think it
over.” Mr. Alfey spluttered and expostulated.
“You think it over,” Sam advised. Later Em’s
mother and father called, and Em’s mother cried
for an hour and a half, while Em’s father enlarged
on the advantages Em offered, presumably as a
matrimonial investment. “Three ’undred acres Em’s
got,” said Em’s father. Even when Em’s father had
done, Em’s mother wanted* to stay and continue cry-
ing indefinitely. Meanwhile Em’s conduct in church
was becoming subversive of all discipline, decency
and devotion.. She had filled the church, but scores
of the careless unregenerate were attending divine
worship merely for the gratification of watching her
comic raptures. Then a number of prominent
churchmen formed themselves into a deputation to
wait upon the Rev. James Alfey and expostulate
with him for his seemingly ungenerous and unchris-
tian conduct towards Miss Bayles. They were met
at the door by Emma. Emma held a broom. “Here,
you get out o’ this!” said Emma threateningly. “I
won’t have you botherin’ him. He’s worried enough
as it is, heaving knows. Me an’ ’im was married
this mornin’.”
McPHEE'S DISEASE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Michael Flannery McPhee,
Who’d been on a jamboree,
Was recov’ring from his spree
’Neath the local doctor men;
He had seen the usual crew
Of bush jim-jams, red and blue,
And striped snakes of ev’ry hue
But was getting well again.
It was then I met Joe Greer,
Who’d been with him on the beer,
And remarked: “I’m glad to hear
That McPhee is on the mend.”
“Well,” said Joseph with a curse
On the doctors and the nurse;
“But he’s not; he’s getting worse,
And I fear he’s near his end.
“For to-day, ’twixt you and me,
When I asked him could he see
Snakes now, ‘No,’ says he,
‘Thanks to Hiven, not a one.’
And, it nearly made me sick,
They were crawlin’ on him thick,
And he couldn’t see, poor Mick !
Ah, he’s done —poor lad, he’s done!”
N.S.W
HY. E. HORNE.


!i«0
;, :■, *4>
iht;
:Wiu 4’•
Hl®
? f
sf m.
* mi
;. M
i*7lji*sF3v>
-i ’iV°
J ■;
f* iasP^
:7fTTIM!
j >:Vm
t* ’
smmoHf
rn f .
,v-
-rf*S
:• - •/’ 4E[r/ 4.- * .\ J £,!*£_
lis?
House or CofWwts
,V>. 7
RTHORNe &50H3.UM11-EC
fcDR*mOCK DISTILLERY f
DHMfi
1W
WWlIttW 7oms»m., I PWoft£C
jflwk
*w« .& or i^ji
3*.
[IfSPPWt
ft-at :
JH
lit
* C *AL LtQ°
is
i£r*K3
*l^3
r- -“•,
g§3£
fiTTsSt!
psB&g*imgis^
tsi:
!
& Ml
R s
»si
m i
im&tißa
(■si
r,r
is
~S :
i?
m
,'\c,a
ill
T
HE user of Thorne’s
Old PI ig h land
Malt Whisky is
loyal to his favorite bev-
erage. He knows that
the fine qualities which
have always pleased his
palate will be found
uniform in high excel-
lence in every bottle.
For 80 years Thorne’s
has withstood the stern
test of time. It is to-
day—as always—
Incomparable


ims.
<;■ .
\v
*r%
Ef
«s?
m
*ga
w
*^rr ;
/((.
r?
I f;-
tSMVZI ,
„3jn gwooas
V G3AI3D3M
3AVH 1,.
Hun of thousands of people have derived
immeasurable benefits
From Sanatogen
Thousands of them have written to the proprietors
to say so. Their testimony records marvellous results,
which, until its discovery, could never have been obtained
by any means at the disposal of the physician.
Among the writers are many celebrities with whose
names
You will
be as familiar as with your own.
Tens of thousands of doctors throughout the world
have prescribed Sanatogen, which a medical authority,
writing in The Medical Press and Circular, states, “has
strengthened the physician’s hand a hundredfold,” while,
he adds, “the wonders brought about by this prepara-
tion are no less manifold than amazing.”
This is high praise for any preparation to
Receive
but it has been endorsed by innumerable statements.
Here, for instance, is one by that famous Authoress,
Madame Sarah Grand : “ Sanatogen has done everything
for me which it is said to be able to do for cases of
nervous weakness and exhaustion. I began to take it
after nearly four years’ enforced idleness from extreme
weakness, and felt the benefit almost immediately. And
now, after taking it steadily three times a day for
twelve weeks, I find myself able to enjoy both work
and play again, and also able to do as much of both as I
ever did.”
To be so revitalised is, indeed, in Shakespeare’s
words, to receive
A Second Life
That experience may be duplicated by every reader
of these words, for Sanatogen so influences the nervous
and muscular systems, the digestion and the great blood-
making organs, that it restores the normal balance dis-
organised by illness or disease.
Sanatogen is sold by all Chemists, in tins, at 2s. 6d.,
3s. 6d. and 6s. 6d.
An interesting and instructive booklet, entitled
“The Art of Living,” will be sent, post free, to all
who write, mentioning this paper, to A. Wulfing & Co.,
17, Bond Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
“Rosna’s” whoop from London: —
They hung a gold and white canopy over Aus-
tralia’s slice of the Strand this week to protect
King George, in case the infrequent British sun
should blink upon him when he was laying the
foundation-stone of the Commonwealth’s new London
house. They also built him a canvas drawing-room,
with rambler roses climbing like mad up its walls,
and tiger-lilies, daisies and carnations waving their
heads at him. Here on gilt chairs in tidy rows sat
velvet-clad Agents-General and their wives, with our
Shy Commissioner in a blue and pink sash to mar-
shal them. Beyond were stands to seat 2000 Aus-
tralians, or as the Daily Mail grandiloquently de-
scribed them, “lords of vast estates and masters of
huge flocks and herds.” Four thousand people are
said to have grappied for tickets and become sud-
denly proficient in foreign languages when they
couldn't be got. The Queen, girbed in lavender-
flowered silk and a botanic hat, brought along the
royal daughter, solemn 16, in pale green and
sprigged chiffon. The Reid dame was in white; and
pretty Thelma, in a pompadour frock of flower-
dotted silk, handed the officially prescribed posy to
Queen Mary. Lady Denman, the Chief Justice Grif-
fifths, the Archbishop Clarkes, the Muirhead Collins
twain, and six Mr. and Mrs. Agents-General were pre-
sented to the Monarchy. Proceedings were refresh-
ingly slick. Ada Crossley instilled some music into
that soulless ditty, th? Unnatural Anathema. Arch-
bishop Clarke put in a word with Providence; and
George Reid and George Rex had a little polite con-
versation. Then the latter took a gold trowel with
a handle of Australian blackwood, and a gold mallet
with the Commonwealth’s arms bespread on it, mut-
tered an incantation, and the thing was done.
(N.B. —If you are ever hard up for £1 13s.
I can tell you where George Rex buried that sum in
good Australian coins.) One of the lords of vast
estates aforesaid started a coo-ee at the psycho-
logical moment, and the other 1999 took it up with
gusto, much to the joy of the British press, which
shouted it in big headlines next day. Some rags
called it an “ear-splitting shriek” ; others with bet-
ter ears said it was a beautiful, melodious “call.”
All the Strand had wreaths in its hair, and the
jingo public turned out in thousands, as usual, to
look at George and Mary. By 10 a.m. you could
hardly penetrate the Strand. By 12 the high jinks
had begun. By 1 p.m. the Commonwealth was fold-
ing its tents like the Arab and silently stealing
away to lunch, and there wasn’t a jink left.
Archdeacon Boyce writes urging citizens
to vote for No-license at the local option
polls in New South Wales in December.
One portion :
The experience in the 12 no-license electorates in
Maoriland —the 12 gems shining in that country’s
crown— is conclusive that the law is well kept.
Simultaneously, there reached The Bulle-
tin an opinion from Auckland (M.L.)
Star, which lives handy to the question.
This is its experience of at least one of the
shining gems :
Notwithstanding that the King Country is practi-
cally a no-license area, a tremendous amount of
open and illicit drinking of spirit takes place. This
has been proved by the number of convictions for
sly grog during the year, and also by the regrettable
eases of death by alcoholic poisoning at the Tauma-
runui end. Provided the regulations are complied
with, more liquor than can be safely consumed by
an individual can be received from Te Awamutu or
Taihape. The cause of a great deal of the exces-
sive drinking is that a syndicate “imports” a case
of whisky or keg of beer, and on its arrival “sees
it out,” thus drinking more than if supplies were
regulated.
This paper leaves the matter there, merely
remarking that a no-license district in w r hich
you can’t buy three-penn’orth of beer or
sixpence-worth of whisky, but can bring in
a whole keg of each liquor from outside,
doesn’t seem quite the teetotal place it
might be. It appears to have exchanged
small, regular drinks in a glass for large,
irregular, long-interval drinks in a barrel.
R- Maoriland will become no-license from
one end to the other ; shut up its breweries
and distilleries; prohibit the importation or
manufacture of alcohol in any form ; and
thus g 0 tke wko le hog, then Boyce’s gospel
, P v,nncP At nrpsent it is a half-
"lJl B et a cnance. At present it. is a nan
measure and quite unsatisfactory,
“The Snake” : There seems an opportunity
h of the stone-broke
® a , sy reacn 01 tae , Stone oroae
a- ®- '' a I6S Government to Shake a
few sovereigns into its hat from the
prosperous racing clubs. In 1912, 484
racecourse licenses were issued, and
f rom them the Treasury received in
c , ~,,,,, rr ,, „. ..,.. • , ..
f®6S only £llB6. That certainly isn t the
brand of business adopted by, say, the
A.J.C. The other day Adrian Knox, K.C.,
chairman of the A.J.C. committee, stated
that the aggregate profit to the club for the
, vpars! i iaf i fQ4 000 • added
l ,ast ZV -' eal f rSao onn T! a ’ i-
money amounted to £649,000, stands and lm-
provements cost £143,000, working expenses
£248,000 and country subsidies £4OOO. And
that is only one club. Within 40 miles of
g ydney p ost Office six racecourses are
e
licensed for horse racing, four for Pony rac-
mg and two for trotting. Beyond the 40 miles
limit, 306 courses are licensed for horse-
racing, 71 for pony racing, and 57 for trot-
ting. Any good Public Robber—'that should
, nf the Trpaanrpr -
ne .°, m( . lal designation or tne creasuier
could, if given a free hand, manage to drag
more than £llB6 a year out of a business of
this size. The community has to depend
largely on public sins and luxuries for its
revenue. It levies heavy duties on whisky,
, , ~ ’
brandy, wine- and tobacco rather than on
the baby s milk—whether cow or human,
It fines the drunk instead of the sober citi-
zen. And on the same basis it ought to
run die public tote and the public lottery,
a,"<J take toll of them, instead of letting the
club-gamble and th© bookmaker-gamble go
free, and dragging income-tax out of the
hard-working, God-fearing citizen who goes
to bed at 10 and is probably struggling
hard to support his aged parents.
“Straw Hat”: When the morning paper
chattering about white sheets of frost,
it is pleasant to look round and count the
s P r ‘. The draper is
very first to burst into song in the rag
columns of the daily press. But he com-
11|iences the minute the first fury of winter
slackens. The girl with the white
JfeM pops up spasmodically ; but she is a
unreliable guide. vagi ant ray
sunshine IS sufficient to fool her. Then
there are trees and shrubs that are almost
as easily deceived as the summery female,
Under the influence of fermented sunshine
j. key develop Sap to the head and joyously
„„f i„f„„
OU I tender buds that are Ister nipped
by tbe trost. Amongst other first spring
symptoms are (1) the young man who has
left his vest at home. (Later on he is very
sorry for it); (2) the first picnic party,
(Who hasn’t seen that dispirited band shiv-
ering forlornly round the evening camp-
fire that is all smoke?) ; and (3) the
deluded bird that sings unconvincingly for
half an hour of watery sunshine, and then
subsides with apologetic chirps when the
clouds blow up and the wind whistles chil-
lingly amongst the trees. All these signs
are vain and of no account; in fact, they
are only one degree better than the first
summer time-tables that are pasted up, only
to be lashed to pulp by the driving rain.
The one and only sure indication of
Nature’s returning warmth is the first surf
rescue of the season. When the limp
prize is dragged out of the foam and laid
on the beach by a proud retrieving life-
saver, then the hot weather is due, and the
proprietor of a soft-drink fountain can smile
again and oil the cash register.
The story of a multi-millionaire family :
J. B. Joel, the S'African multi-millionaire, who
recently gave 40,000 guineas for a racehorse, has
had a romantic past. He is a nephew of the ex-
circus clown and millionaire Barney Barnato (who
jumped overboard from a Donald Currie liner when
w .en) and bother of the late Woolf Joel
(shot dead in his Johannesburg office by an adven-
turer of sorts). He has, with his brother Solly, so
far managed to survive the bitter enmity which
Israel’s claim-acquiring methods made for him and
others in the early days of the Rand. Some de-
served the enmity even if these two didn’t.
The Johannesburg of those days was a straggling
collection of weatherboard shanties and corrugated
iron “hotels.” The principal pub was the Prince of
Wales, and here Israel transacted most of its deals,
Occasionally a claim-owner, who had refused to sell
his claim, was discovered at the bottom of his shaft
in a battered and extinct condition. There were no
inquests in those days. The Boers didn’t mind ; the
death of a Uitlander meant one less disturber of
their peace. The defunct claim-owner was usually
buried in a convenient mullock heap by some benevo-
lent Jew, who afterwards produced a sale-note and
took possession of the deceaseds claim. Some of
the richest claims on the Rand were acquired in this
way, and formed the nucleus of the immense mining
companies of to-day.
After the murder of their brother Woolf, Jack
and Solly decided that England was the safest place
for them; but the day came when Jack Joel was
called upon to give l evidence in a law-suit in Johan-
nesburg. He was between Charbvdis and Scylla. If
he returned to the Rand he ran a grave risk of losing
his life; if he did not attend he was likely to lose
a part of his fortune. .Money being dear, he went
back. It was a month or two before the war, and
the Rand was in a turmoil. But Joel surmounted
the difficulties and dodged the dangers. Reserving
a compartment in the mail train, he had himself
wrapped up in brown paper, corded, and placed par-
cel-like on the luggage rack. His enemies, aware
of his intending visit, and bent on taking his life,
boarded the train during a temporary stop a few
miles outside of Johannesburg. A close inspection
of each carriage, including the one with the large
brown paper parcel on the rack, failed to reveal
their man, and the man-hunters departed cursing.
Arriving at Johannesburg, Joel was dumped into a
parcel-deliverv van and driven to a friend’s house.
During the hearing of the law-suit he never left the
court building, living in one of the janitor’s rooms.
The ease over and won, Joel had himself brown-
paper parcelled again and deposited in the guard’s
van of the outgoing train. This was on the eve of
war, and on the same train were scores of other
Jews scurrying away from the danger-zone. The
outwitting of his enemies in the manner described
formed the chief topic of J. B. Joel’s conversation
on the homeward-bound liner.
But though he has accomplished great successes
in “finance” and upon the turf, the social sphere in
which the King moves is closed to him. Also, most
of the other social spheres are closed to him. And,
because of this, he is reputed to be a bitterly disap-
nninfnH man
TN . , ‘
Dick Knuckey, still engaged m patching
up the overland telegraph line, was with
Charles Todd and party when the wire was
first stretched. The old warrior is over 70
now. but his one good eye is keen, and the
i j i • i j « i mi
years have not kinked his back. There
were two Knuckeys in the original party—
both coachbuilders and wheelwrights, and
both imbued with the spirit of adventure
Knuckey’s Swamp gets its name from John
Randall Knuckey, long since drifted into
the Great Obscure. The other, Richard
occasionally sallies into the city with
brother bushmen. Recently some of them
got seated in the front row of the dress
circle at Adelaide Theatre Royal. One of
them had purchased a pair of new hoots
for the occasion, and midway through the
show removed them for comfort. The more
sophisticated Knuckey, noting the amuse-
ment of the boiled shirts and the astonish-
ment Ot tbe usher, prevented the latter’s
murder by removing both his pal and his
pal’s boots. “If that usher had spoken to
gob about his boots,” the old man explained
“ he would have t chucked into the stalls ”
“ c sums,
There is a family tradition that Governor-
General Denman’s most famous ancestor
tke one who secured t h e title early last cen
nA j r£ ,j _ J , . u
P Te PaSSed mto
general cunency. It was this way. In the
early fragments _of _ the century Daniel
O’Connell and his friends were holding
monster meetings in support of the repeal
0 f t h e Union. O’Connell always impressed
~r e j .
"P° n th f. People the necessity for order in
* be.ir £ a therings, SO as not to give Strength
to ‘ the enemy. Rut*. a t last, the officials at
Dublin Castle instituted a prosecution
against O’Connell and his colleagues The
defendants, or traversers, as they were
called . were prosecuted at the police court
m . . . 1 R c cuuu,
committed for trial, convicted of Something
ot other, and sentenced to terms of impris-
onment. They appealed, and the appeal
went to the House of Lords. The ground
was the manipulation of the jury-panel
The offidal monkeying with th ju g
rr ® £ t j J /T * y ,. . ,
shown in the House of Lords (Judicial
committee), whereupon the Lord Denman
of the day spoke thus: “If this is trial by
jury in Ireland, then trial by jury in Ire-
]an(j j s a mockerv, a delusion and a snare”
_„ a te lli n g phrase, which stuck, and re-
• qHpkinp
41 sucKing.
“Jeames” holds forth on the high no-
bility
L . ... , , . ,
The Marquis of Lincolnshire (he was Lord Carnns-
*°n .’ ° f J*’ J ust . announced hi.
, e , , om bU^ IC u '^ e noml nally on the
f™und of old age. As he is a mere lad of 71, an
. at . J hl . cb . mat W Brlta * P oll £ c , la " s are barely
their careers (Lord Halsbury, or in-
T n ’k"™ u ’ Tkt k° St energetlc a ? d
, e f Cl ™ , L T d Chancellor at 80), the excuse may be
termed disingenuous. A far more likely explanation
18 . that , h , e „ flnds the ™ eth ? ds „ Wlnston ?. hurc u hl 1
3“l-Ji lo L d - G £ r f He was in the chair
d ™ the banquet of sympathy that was given re-
gently to • Lloyd-George in connection with the Mar-
a?aim , bat Jeet ? settled beforehand that
tbera sh ° uld be nO , r^ rl , n ? ln . a 1 tloas °< an V e ° rt Bu
the Exchequer man s Welsh blood got warmed up, and
. tore lnto hls adversaries with much spirit. The
chairman was enraged and said so later in the
P lalae , st + term . s : , Tbe Lloyd-George social legislation
. without which the Liberal party would have to
shut up shop—is abhorrent to the
Whigs. They regard it as Socialism. They also
fear his land legislation—more especially those
0 f them who are landed proprietors. Lord Lincoln-
shire owns about 20,000 acres in England and
Wales, and he is more Whig than he is Radical,
Small wonder that the descendant of banker Bobby
flnd f K l r ntw thU ß l ,fiw b ’ b r e . r i^} sra
waning. A. brotflGr, KiiDGrt Oarin2rton, married a
daughter of squatter Horsfall, and lives in and
around Sydney most of his time. He is on a visit
to England just now.


SI
•-*
LIFT, CARRY or PULL
— WITH
A Battery Truck Crane
Severe tests, covering an extended period at the
Bush Terminal Company, New York, and at th
Schenectady factory the Genera, Hectric Com!
pan,, and also at the No. 12 dock, Melbourne, have
proven the great worth of the Battery Truck Crane
It is now offered to those who wish" to fhe
storage capacity of a given floor space, or rednce
the cos, and tune of handling, freight, casting*
The Batter, Truck Crane is an automobile battery
r/k' an e,Mtrtc '"*»<= mounted in the IrZt
end. The operator has complete control of the
crane and vehicle. cne
THE CRANE WITH A 60-MILE BOOM.
The Truck: Crane can go a moderate distance, and
get back, with a load on its hook, quicker than the
“ lo * d “" b " U«*d on to any other ZVS
vehmle. It does the work of from 3to 30 horses
and drivers, or on hand work from 5 to 14 men.
This truck has moved one million pounds of small
package freight 600 ft. in 19 hours, and 600,000
pounds of cotton one half-mile in a day.
The truck has proved itself well adapted for service
between cranes m shops, for handling material
between shops, or in storage yards not covered by
cranes. Send for Battery Truck Crane Bulletin
S ’ made at N °' 12
?,y STRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC C 2:
Clarence Street, Sydney. Corner Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne.
AGENTS
ii rentUSS '— n beh au n & Johnstone. Ltd., 100 Currie Street
C °- of A “ st ’ Georgeltreet.
NEW v;e tkl fi C °: (W * A ) ’ Ltd ’ 2O Q»<>en Street.
• atlonal Electrical & Engineering Co., Ltd., Auckland, Dunedin & Wellington.
HEALTH or SICKNESS
JnHdfmfnich 1 - 7 th p C t . Allen b ur y s ’ Diet - is most easy of assimilation, increasing vitality
svstem Prena^ed 1 frnm !- restor ? s the digestion and gives tone to the whole
orediffested fo?m d fhP‘^n P vf’ nc ,\^ ll k and who,e wheat ’ combined in a partially
°TS’ he AWenburys Diet is a complete food, and is valuable alike for
the Invalid and Robust. Made in a Minute —add boiling water only
Allen & Hanburys
Ltd.
LONDON, ENGLAND, and
MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
!
THE LONE HANP
THE AUSTRALIAN MAGAZINE.
A monthly guide for everything Australian.
6d
f*.Ringing for MoreV*
/A
Bird’s
Custard
stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess.
Has stood the test of time
Over 70 years'success. 1
Manufactured by GWYNNES LTD., LONDON.
High Efficiency Centrifugal Pumps for All Purposes.
GWYNNEB LTD. have had over fifty years’ practical
Pumping Machinery to discharge 80,000,000 gallons
large as the Thames, or 72 rivers as large as the Nile.
experience as Hydraulic Engineers, during which period they have supplied Centrifugal
(equal to 363,636 cubic metres) per minute, which is equal to the discharge of 363 rivers as
Included in these Plants will be found the most important, durable, economical and successful Pumping Installations in the world.
\
IX
m
[JW®> HS.
Fig. 602.
We stock these in all sizes, from lin. to 12in.,
with either single or double standards.
MOTOR-DRIVEN PRESSURE PUMP, to lift 600 gallons, against
a head of 800 feet.
This is the Type of Pum» we are supplying for the Broken Hill Water Supply.
PRICES AND QUALITY ARE RIGHT Send for^Catalotfiiii
FULL PARTICULARS FROM
HAES & EGGER
■J
163 Clarence Street,
-^—SYDNEY


£,500
for Being Happy
Kodak Ltd. offers a first prize of f too for ten jolly
Kodak snapshots of Happy Moments. There are
116 prizes, amounting m all to, fgoo.
There have been prizes as big, but never such a jolly
competition as the Kodak Happy iVloment Competition.
fioo for ten happy snapshots! That is the Kodak offer. You take the
snapshots to show how happy you have been.
Any Kodak snapshots may win a prize—if they are happy enough. You need not
develop them yourself. Twenty-eight of the prizes are reserved for beginners.
KODAKS FOR ALL.
There are Kodaks at all prices from 21/- ; Brownies from s'r 5 antl Wltll an >’ one of them
you may win £ 1 °°-
Call or write to us, or your nearest dealer, for a “ Happy Moments ", Booklet.
T-.
%
m.
m/i
'.'/.'A
'T
KODAK (Australasia) LTD
Incorporating Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd.
SYDNEY: 379 George Street.
MELBOURNE: “ The BlocK.” *284 Collins
ADELAIDE: 37 Bundle Street.
BRISBANE: 78-80 Queen Street.
TOOWOOMBA. : Ruthven Street.
TOWNSVILLE: Flinders Street.
ROCKHAMPTON: East Street.
BROKEN HILL: 346 Argent Street.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. : 3 Lome Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z. : 6 Mercer Street.
Street
P“S
a
%
r
d
W.
m
ft?*:'
//
'v>
w,
!rH
$r
3L*
BRAIN FAC
"A case for Wlncamis
ANAEMIA
"A case for Winoa^pis
SLEEPLESSNESS
"A case for ty/ncarnis
WEAKNESS
"A case for Wincarms
DON’T SUFFER NEEDLESSLY
Tf you suffer from Anaemia, Sleeplessness, Brain-fag, Weakness, Nerve
Troubles, Exhaustion, etc., “Wincarnis” will give you prompt relief You
need suffer no longer. Commence taking “Wmcarms” to-day. You will tmd
yourself getting stronger
taking your “Wmcarnis”
with renewed health, vig
after each wineglassful. And as you continue
you will feel it surcharging your whole system
or, vitality, and new life. The reason is, tha
V
A. A
is a tonic, restorative, blood maker and nerve food. Its first
effect is to stimulate the heart, revitalise the blood and soothe
the nerves. Then it creates new, rich blood, which is carried
by the circulation all over the body, to repair the
wasted tissue, restore the lost vitality, feed the nerves,
Will Give
You
and make
That is why
invalid, renewed
to brainworkers,
one.
whole system pulsate with new We.
; ‘Wincarnis” gives new life to
strength to the weak, increased vigoi
and a wealth of health to e\ery
RENEWED HEALTH, VIGOR, VITALITY ay NEW LIFE.
To-day is the best day to commence taking " Wlncarnis." Buy a bottle to-day from your Wine Merchant
TO day s Uce „' e „ chemist or Grocer, and test Its Marvellous Strengther.ng Propert.es.
Australian and New Zealand Depot: FASSETT JOHNSON. s®. 7 BarracK Street. SYDNE .
COLEMAN (Si CO., Wincarnis WorKs, NORWICH,
[4


25J-
Lady’s Solid Silver Hunting
Keyless LEVER WATCH, f-
plate, full jewelled, patent ad-
justed balance, 25/- Higher
Grade, 30/-, 35/-, 40/-,
50/- Solid Gold, £3
£3/10/-, £4.
22/6.
GOLD EARRINGS, set
Pearls and Amethysts,
or Red Stones.
30|-
15/-
GOLD BROOCH, set Pearls and Garnet.
Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding WATCH
BRACELET, full jewelled Lever movement, accur-
ate, reliable.
Higher Grade, £5/10/-, £6/10/-
Post Free All Over Australasia
AWNDERS
SYDNEYS LEADING JEWELLER
p . these Beautiful Designs and any Order in Jewellery. Let us forward you our Free
e . aaf then send us an Order. You will find our Designs so Satisfactory, our Personal
service so Good, and our Prices Wonderfully Low.
£l2/10/-
18ct. GOLD, all
Diamond Cluster.
25/-
15ct. GOLD WED-
DING RING. 18ct.
Gold, 30/-
30/-
GOLD BROOCH and
PENDANT COMBINA-
TION, set Pearl 3 and
Amethyst or Garnet.
£4/10/-
15ct. GOLD BROOCH, set
pure, double-cut Diamonds,
and Rubies or Sapphires.
Gent.’s Nickel, Open Face, xveyless
LEVER, full jewelled, patent adjusted
balance, non-magnetic time spring, dust
and waterproof cases, 12/6, 157-
Higher Grades, 20/-, 25/-, 307-
Solid Silver, £2.
17/6.
GOLD PENDANT, set
Pearls and Amethysts
or Garnets.
£lO.
18ct. GOLD, set 3
large Diamonds.
Larger Diamonds,
£l2/10/-. £l5
£5.
18ct. GOLD, set 5
pure, double-cut
Diamonds. Larger
Diamonds,
£6/10/-,
£7/10/-
12/6.
GOLD BROOCH, set Pearls and Gar-
net, or Amethyst.
f*
22/6.
GOLD LINKS, set
Red or Blue Stone.
15ct. Gold, £2. Dia-
mond set, 15ct. Gold,
£3/10/-
£2llO/-
£2/10/-
GOLD NECKLACE, set Pearls and
Peridots, and Garnets, Amethysts and
Peridots.
207-
GOLD LINKS, any in-
itials engraved. 15ct.
Gold, 40/-
GOLD BROOCH and PEN-
DANT COMBINATION, sat
handsome Cameo and Pearls.
12/6.
GOLD EARRINGS, set
Pearls and Red or
Blue Stones.
50/-
15ct. GOLD SPRAY BROOCH, sec pure
white Pearls.
HHIiHUi,...
MR
iy V
SSV
£3.
GOLD BRACELET, set Diamonds and Garnets, or
Peridots.
mm
807-817 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
I • $
Bl . >
r .4
p
:v' Jr
r 'v
Many men use an old-fashioned razor because
the blade can be kept in such perfect condition
by stropping. Not everyone knows that the
Auto Strop Safety Razor gives just this kind
of edge combined with all the advantages of a
safety' razor. It “ strops itself ” in 12 seconds
without removing the blade, and makes self-
shaving not only possible but most desirable.
STROPS ITSELF AND SAVES
CONSTANT EXPENSE FOR BLADES.
Obtainable o) all highelaee dealer, throughout Australia,
uuoagiug r-ld
York Chambers,
Market. Street. Sydney#
The Only
Razor that Strops Itself >
BLADE-STROPPING IS EASIER THAN BLADE-
CHANGING AND CHEAPER THAN BLADE-BUYING
Test it against any non-stropping razor and you will realise
not only the enormous saving in blade expense, but the
clean, cool, close shave that only a stropped blade can give.
.Auto Strop,
k 5 & ET o Y R 7
In handsome velvet-lined leather-covered case, as
illustrated, containing quadruple-silver-pla ed
self-stropping razor, genuine horsehide strop,
and 12 “Valet ” blades complete.
Price in Australia . . . 22/6
Price in New Zealand. . 25/-
§9


THREE CHEERS!!
Haig 8 Haig Scots Whisky
(ESTABLISHED 1679.)
Franz Josef Lager Beer
Hackerbrau Dark Lager
I’n HAVING WHISKY.
WHAT’S YOURS?
MINE’S THE SAHE.
BUT IT MUST BE
CRAWFORDS
Finest Very Old Scotch.
CELEBRATED THE WORLD OVER FOR ITS
SUPERB FLAVOR & PERFECT PURITY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Now that Britain has borrowed Maori-
land’s lone and solitary warship for service
in the Mediterranean the situation becomes
more than ever reminiscent of that at Rome
when the Ma Country began to call in the
legions.
The N.S.W. Government’s Compulsory
Vaccination Bill just amounts to a state-
ment that you must get vaccinated unless
you object, but if you don’t feel like it you
needn’t. If you do feel like it blit still
object then you may be fined £5, which you
needn’t pay unless you want to, the alterna-
tive being three months’ voluntary imprison-
ment.
Last week’s Premiers’ Conference between
Watt of Vic. and Holman of N.S.W. tackled
a variety of subjects without reaching any
definite conclusion on most of them. One
momentous question was, however, grappled
with and overcome. The pair decided to pur-
chase and run all the Murray River punts,
whether now municipally or privately owned.
It is on such large matters that the splendid
genius of the State Insects shows out with
blinding brilliance.
The blessed Palace of Peace at the Hague,
which has been under construction amid
much bloodshed for several years, has been
opened at last. The one country which
showed a clear appreciation of the joke was
Brazil —-or perhaps the Brazilian struck a
great idea by accident. Anyhow, he sent his
peace delegation across the Atlantic in a
huge warship. In other words, Pedro brought
bis gun.
THE PARABLE OF SHEPHERD
JOE COOK.
Mr. Cook was informed that the Opposition would
not give any pairs. —News item.
'so Joseph goeth forth to seek that which was lost.
An item from the programme of Percy B.
Colquhoun, who is seeking the Wade party’s
nomination in the Mosmaii district
(N.S.W.)
Decentralisation, such as the opening up of
those two great natural harbors, Port Stephens and
Twofold Bay, with railway connections to existing
lines.
Does any other patriotic candidate propose
to compete in this matter? Don’t all speak
at once.
Constantine, who rules at Athens, threat-
ens to assume the old Byzantine purple robe
and the old Byzantine crown, and declare
himself Emperor of Greece. It is a pictur-
esque. idea, lie is the first Greek king born
in Greece since the Turkish conquest, for
Otho and George were imported foreigners.
His name recalls the old glories, for it was
(’onstantine the Eleventh who defended the
last scrap of the old Greek Empire, and died
fighting at St. Romanus Gate against the
Unspeakable Turk. The finding of the old
imperial togs and the old imperial diadem
will add a shred of pomp to the resumed
dignity. And the assumption of the old title
will signify that Constantine puts in his
definite claim to Constantinople, and gives
the Turk notice to quit. So presumably the
Balkan scrap will presently start again. It
seems as if the new Palace of Peace at the
llame had better be turned into a military
hospital.
SAME OLD PARTY WIT AND
REPARTEE.
SMALL ONE: “ St-top, boys! It's wastin’ lh ’
bosses’ time."
OTHERS (loud laughter): "Then get him into
harness an start work—or come down!"
Times have been stormy of late. There
have been in quick succession the Boer War,
Chow-Jap. War, Russo-Jap. War, Russian
civil war, Chinese ditto, Mexican ditto, some
more ditto in Central and South America,
the Turco-Italian scrap, the Turko-Serbo-
Greek-Bulgar-Montenegrin row, the new
Balkan war which followed, the chronic
hold-up in Morocco, with France and Spam
both involved, the Portuguese revolution and
some sundries. And all this time the Palace
of Peace at the Hague was building. Ap-
parently the blessed place brought ill-luck.
By appointing a temporary judge
(Solicitor-General E. D. Dobbiei the
Tasmanian Government has rather
cleverly side-stepped a difficulty,
nudge Maclntyre’s retirement leaves
the island with only two judges, one
of whom, the Chief Justice, is not too
robust and may retire at any moment.
Neil Elliott Lewis was marked for
the vacancy, but his retirement from
the Assembly would stagger the Gov-
ernment to death, as the vacated seat
(Denison) would almost certainly be
captured by the Labor party, making
parties 15 all. Premier Solomon and
N. K. Ewing are also understood to
be in the running for a judgeship ; but
Lewis has first call among the politi-
cal lawyers. The appointment of a
temporary judge postpones the trouble
for two years (or until after the next
general election). And the end’of the
world and the General Resurrection of
the Dead and the arrival in Hobart of
the Beast of Revelation, whose num-
ber was 666, may chance before
then.
Wade’s attempted censure upon the
N.S.W. Government’s scheme for handing
over the control of £3.000.000 worth of rail-
way construction to English private enter-
prise was defeated in the Assembly by six
votes. Beeby voted with his old friends.
Briner, whose electorate is to be traversed
by one of the railways that are to be built
under English Private Enterprise supervi-'
sion and built with money raised by Private
Enterprise, went with Beeby. David Fell,
whose name appears as a member of the
subsidiary company which the English
private enterprise and railway-building con-
cern has floated in Australia, didn’t vote.
The Speaker couldn’t vote. It was a close
thing, but Minister Griffith’s English Pri-
vate Enterprise device pulled through, for
the time, at all events.
Some of these days Henry Chinn —the
man whom the Fisher Government ap-
pointed as a construction boss on the trans-
continental railway, and whom the Cook
Government sacked —may bring an action
for damages against his friends. Before he
was appointed one of his disastrous sup-
porters wrote recommending him on the
ground that he had greatly helped the Labor
party in Westralia at the election which
raised Fisher and co. to office. If that sup-
porter had been drowned in the bath-tub
while an infant his fatuous document
wouldn’t have been in evidence to furnish
excuse for the yarn that Chinn’s appoint-
ment was not a matter of merit, but a mere
political job. So Chinn was discharged by
the Liberals as a mere political appointee
or jobee. The Senate, where Labor has a
majority, has appointed an almost-whollv
Labor Commission to consider his case. And
the chairman. Senator de Largie, has de-
clared <at least so it is reported) that “no
more scandalous piece of persecution has
ever taken place” than the Cook party’s at-
titude towards Chinn. After that, even if
de Largie and his friends bring in a verdict
on good evidence that Chinn is a first-class
engineer and deserved his billet on his quali-
fications—well. the verdict will carry tmry
little more weight than a scrap of waste
paner. So another disastrous friend has
rallied round Chinn.
“B.” : Three postal offi-
cials committed sui ode
in N. S. Wales dur-
ing August, and at
each inouest the amount
of overtime the harassed
officers were called upon
to perform was put in as
evidence. Now the new
Federal Government has
framed a. regulation to
save the Postal Depart-
ment’s face in case of
trouble. Every officer
has to sign the time-
books at the hour he
oupht to go off duty,
and not when he actually
goes off. This will pre-
vent the relatives of
future suicides from call-
ing the time-books in evi-
dence. But whether it
will reduce the brain fag that drives men to
fleeiug into the Beyond is not so positive.
In fact, it is almost half doubtful.
It is mentioned in the daily papers that
the N.S.W. Minister for Labor and Industry
(ex-Premier McGowen) “is still hopeful that
there will be an amicable reference of the
Broken Hill dispute to a Wages Board.”
It is a curious situation. There was an
“amicable reference to a Wages Board,” and
wages were fixed. The employers offer to
add something to these amicably-fixed, wages.
Yet there is a strike, which —seeing
that N.S.W. has a Labor Government, and
Broken Hill is a Labor constituency, and is
bossed by a Labor municipal council, and
that the Wages Board against which the
strike is directed, is a Labor institution —is
somewhat dispiriting. Nobody tries to en-
force the law. but ex-Premier McGowen
hopes amicability will presently rage all over
the place.
DROWNED.
FISHER : “ What a callous chap that Joe Cook
is. There's that poor little tariff dog
under water, and he's made no attempt"
AUSTRALIA: “ Yes, and you're the chap that
sank him."
A TERRIBLE PROMISE.
After a review of all the cases, Mr. Irvine call[?]
on members of the Opposition to bring under b[?]
notice any reliable evidence they could find of a trust
or combine working to the detriment of the people.
If they found any breach of law, whether he agreed
with that law or not, he would prosecute, etc., etc.
THE NEW COP (to the owner of the orchard):
“ An' now I hopes toe'll be heavin' less av
y'r whinin’s and complainin's agin thim
poor divils av trusts; because I'm the man
t' do me duly, I am, an’ ye've only got
t' call me in time t" catch 'em in the act—
an ’ even if they’re me own brothers I'[?]
beat 'em back t' the best phwat's in me
power — an' I can't do more n that, can I?"
“Sufficient unto the day,” said N.S.W.
State Treasurer Cann when asked how the
great deficit was likely to get on next year.
“Sufficient unto the day.” Or, as that other
great shortage man, Louis XV., is said to
have put it: “After me the deluge.” He is
also alleged to have remarked : “Things will
last my time.”
Sydney Evening News (27/8/T3) dis-
interred one Todman, an* English tourist,
who almost wept over the grievances of the
Jap:—
The news that the Californian Government had
passed a law which prohibited Japanese from own-
ing land in that State inflamed the minds of all
classes in Japan. The insult was too much for the
high-spirited sons of Nippon, and they clamored for
war. Ministers pleaded with the populace to In-
patient, but that only added fuel to the flame, and
their resignations—in fact, the resignations of the
whole Government—were demanded. The people
cried for redress, and I can assure you I fully ex-
pected a declaration of war. To appreciate the situ-
tion one wants to know a little of the Japanese.
They are a proud people, sensitive to a degree where
their honor is involved, and touchy when the ques-
tion of color is raised.
Banned from Australia and Maoriland, and now
prohibited from owning land in California, which i-
only another way of expelling them, it is little
wonder that they say, “Must we be forever
sojourners in other lands, must we live as foreigners,
everywhere except where we have conquered? If so,
let us try to conquer now’. Disaster in war is not
worse than insult when pursuing a peaceful course.”
That is the spirit of Japan, and soon it will be the
guiding light of the whole East, for China is waking
from her opium sleep.
Everywhere I went, both in China and Japan, a
feeling of resentment was evident against America
and Australia, produced, I was told by an English-
man resident there, by the anti-alien enactments of
both countries. How long those laws will keep out
the yellow races depends, I suppose, upon the ability
of the people who made them to enforce them, and
from what I learned during my stay in Japan the
people are anxious to test the matter now, especially
as far as America is concerned.
It is heroic snuffle on behalf of a coldly
exclusive race which has, for many years,
refused to allow the white man to own land,
and has steadily shoved him out of bank-
ing, mining, shipowning and general com-
merce, till at last there are less than 7000
whites —British, French, German, Yankee,
Swiss, Spanish, Portuguese and all others —
in the Jap. country. At the last census
there were only 1665 Yankees in Japan, so
vigorously had the Yankee population been
hunted out. Yet in two years (1910 and
1911) nearly 10,000 Japanese moved into
Y'ankee territory, and complained bitterly be-
cause the red carpet wasn’t laid down on the
wharf when they arrived. At the date of
last census there were more Japanese in
Australia alone than there were British sub-
jects of all sorts in the Chrysanthemum
Land, and the brown man was still dissatis-
fied. This clamor of the ill-used Jap grows
wearisome. And when the ill-informed tour-
ist gets hold of it. and the cheap and ill'
informed paper allows the tourist to gam
publicity for what he thinks are his views,
an exhausted feeling supervenes.
THE DRONE AND THE DOER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The fact is that Labor politicians.... want Parlia-
ment to consist only of those who “live on the
game,” which means, of course, only of Labor
members. — Aruus (25/8/Y3.)
The loafing Labor member sat
Around, and talked of this and that,
And cheered, and bounced upon the springs
That held him up.... He did these things
Not as a hobby, nor a fad —
It was the only job he had!
He earned his three squares, and his bed
Serving his country thus, he said.
Twelve quid a week the blighter g0t....
A lucky loafer, was he not ?
Now here, now there —but mostly there —-
With hurried fingers in his hair.
Important papers in each fist,
An agile anti-Socialist,
The Liberal member simply flew,
He had so much hard toil to do.
A pea on a hot plate, he went
On his own gilt-edged business bent.
Twelve quid a week this hustler got. . . .
A proper patriot, was he not ?
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY


Car
Gossip
G |X«GOYt£
IH,
mi
Pratt s Refineries provide
Spirit to Owners of
1,300,000 Motor Cars
who need
Economical Motoring .
Every drop of Pratt's is concen-
trated power, requiring only a
properly adjusted carburetter
to liberate it.
PRATT S economy is recog
nised by motorists who de-
mand efficiency.
Over a million motorists use it.
We have an interesting booklet as below—tells
all about carburetters and their adjustment.
You can have a copy free by dropping a
card to Department “H" at anv of our
branches.
CP- C
\*'" v
v t'°
Vacuum Oil Co. Ptj. Ltd.
Throughout tho
Commonwealth tad
Now Zealand
1
WE
GUARANTEE
EVERY PAIR
GUINEA
BOOT
Glace Kid Derbys , wi J h
Patent Toe-cap , welted
and with Circular Golosh
21/-
Post Free.
Designed on the “English Bespoke ”
style, thoroughly well made from
materials of picked quality, this boot
embodies all that is best in modern shoe-
making. Stylish yet substantial, it is
GUARANTEED TO GIVE PERFECT SATISFACTION
14 & 16 Russell St., MELBOURNE.
Books on Summer Sports
These Books are written by authorities who have definite
ideas, born of practical experience in their special sport.
WE HEARTILY RECOMMEND THEM.
THE FRESH AIR BOOK, by J. P. Muller
BODY BUILDING, or Man in the Making, How to
Become Healthy and Strong, by Sandow
HEALTHY BRAIN AND HEALTHY BODY. (1912)
HEALTH AND RIGHT BREATHING. (1912)
LAWN TENNIS, by W. Baddeley
CRICKET, by Fry, Ranji, etc.
PRACTICAL CRICKETER, by Crawford
CRICKET, by W. L. Murdoch . .
VVISDEN’S CRICKETERS’ ALMANAC FOR 1913..
CYCLING, by Bidlake. . . . . .
SAILING FOR AMATEURS, by Heather ..
BOAT BUILDING AND BOATING, bv Beard
TEXT BOOK OF SWIMMING, by “Jappy” Wolffe. .
THE ART OF SWIMMING, by J. A. Jarvis
LI I E-SAVING, by Bibbero . . . . ..
SWIMMING: For Health, Exercise and Pleasure, by
Many Experts
SWIMMING FOR WOMEN k GIRLS, by Hamilton..
HEALTH AND BEAUTY FOR WOMEN AND GIRLS,
by Helena Gent, with Simple Home Exercises
CORRECT BREATHING FOR CHEST AND LUNG
DEVELOPMENT
CURATIVE EXERCISES FOR INDIGESTION
FIXED AND CYCLE CAMPING, by Pearce
CAMPING OUT, by V. Bridges
TEXT BOOK OF SPRINTING, by Walker ..
WRESTLING: In the Catch-hold Style, by Longhurst
LARNER’S TEXT-BOOK OF WALKING
RINGCRAIT, by Jim Driscoll
TEXT BOOK OF LAWN TENNIS, by Ritchie
RACE WALKING: A Primer of the Sport, by Hugh
Irines
TEXT BOOK OF WEIGHT LIFTING, by Saxon . .
MY SYSTEM, by J. P. Muller, 120 illustrations
SNOWY BAKER’S GENERAL PHYSICAL CUL-
TURE
EUSTACE MILES’ SYSTEM OF PHYSICAL CUL-
TURE
MOTOR BOAT HANDBOOK (American), vols. I, 11,
111, and IV, each
MOTOR BOATS: Construction and Operation, 1912,
by T. H. Russell
MOTOR BOATS SIMPLY EXPLAINED
DOUBLE POSTAGE RATES TO NEW ZEALAND.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.
476 George Street
(OPPOSITE QUEEN
VICTORIA MARKETS),
Sydney.
<*>
\
r
HI
Held in
a Girl’s
Hand!
Pathe’s Home
Cinematograph
EVERYTHING NECESSARY, EXCEPTING ONLY THE SCREEN
IS IN THE MACHINE AS THE GIRL IS HOLDING IT.
Pathe's Home Cinematograph.
Makes its own light. Fig. 16 is a small magneto. As the handle that
projects the picture is turned, sufficient light is produced in the magneto to
throw a moving picture of startling distinctness on the screen. Anyone in
any place, town or country, can have Moving Pictures in the Home without
the use of gas, electric light, or oil. No outside light is necessary. You
cannot get this advantage in any other cinematograph.
The Films will not burn.
I J ath6 Films are non-inflammable. There is absolutely no danger In
Victoria the Fire Underwriters’ Association charge no extra premium if a
Pathe Home Cinematograph is in the home. You cannot get this advantage
in any other cinematograph. 6
Large choice of Films in Pathe’s Circulating Library
not obtainable for any other cinematograph.
PATHE FRERES,
27 Alliance Buildings,
4-8 Queen Street, Melbourne.
HOME CINEMATOCRAPH & AGENCIES PTY.
LTD., 48 Quaen Street, Melbourne;
BIRCH & CARROLL. Edward Street, Bris-
bane; S. SPURLINC & SON, 93 Brisbane
Street, Launceston; OPTICAL & PHOTO
SUPPLIES CO.. 672 Hay Street, Perth;
orC. W. FRASER & CO., 139 York Street,
Sydney; HARRMCTONS(N.Z) LTD., 42 Willis
Street, Wellington, N.Z.; W. PARK, Sta-
tioner, Palmerston North, N.Z.; C. R. FORE-
MAN & CO . Napier, N.Z. ; WILKINS & FIELD
HARDWARE CO. LTD., Nelson. New Zealand ;
THE NEW ZEALAND FARMERS’ CO-OPERA-
TIVE ASSOCIATION OF CANTERBURY LTD.;
PATERSON & BARR LTD., Dunedin for
Dunedin; The Arts and Crafts Dapot,
Masterton, N.Z.
CUT OUT AND POST TO-DAY.
Please send me particulars of l'athe's
Home Cinematograph.
Name
Address
27. • . -


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Absolutely Pure.
No Preservatives.
E. KERCH'S LIMITED , Brewer by Appoint-
ment to his Excellency the Governor-General.
Brewery and Offices i Dowling Street, Redfern, Sydney
West Australian Agents RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
REGULARITY OF THE BOWELS.
THE FIRST LINE OF DEFENCE
AGAINST ILL-HEALTH.
When the bowels are clogged the waste
matter decays and ferments and enters
blood, and is carried to all parts of the^ boa.,
producing headaches, biliousness, sP.
ness, heartburn, loss of appetite, md g
neuralgia, rheumatism, and various!
ailments disturbing the heart and n
system; and if continued is Lab l ®.!® an( j
inflammation of the bowels, liv
kl< To a healthy system the> bowels
should operate at least once every -
This is one of Nature’s wise,
which is too often ignored, and tbe are
untold suffering. Women and chi e
the greatest offenders, but why such
be the case is a problem to be solyea. ,
“I was a sufferer from constipat
liiliousness for some time,
H. Jones, of Gobolion-street, Wdi J
N.S.W., “and seeing Dr. Morses
Root Pills advertised as an effectiv, t 0
for the relief of constipation, 1 d have
give your pills a trial, and can say keep
proved very effective indeed, la* ffl .
them in my home, and eonsequen J coD .
mend them, as aforesaid. Lou ha
sent to use this testimony.
NABOB BOOT PASTE
Economical, Brilliant, Waterproof, Easily Applied.
Manufactured by LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney^
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Paris Nesbit. K.C., talks of a crusade
against enclosed-ground coursing in Adelaide. The
secretary of the Plumpton cordially invited him -to
come arid see how innocent the sport is, and what a
sporting chance the hare has of escape; to which he
replied that getting away for the day, only to be
killed next week, is not “escape,” and that he was
sending two men to collect evidence, the spectacle
being too painful for himself. Next, Nesbit appealed
to the S.P.C.A. to obtain an injunction against the
meeting; but the lady secretary somewhat acidly
replied that he himself, convinced of the iniquity
of the thing, was the very best person to obtain it,
and so really suppress the cruelty. The K.C. retorted
that it is too big and expensive a fight for his pri-
vate purse; so he sent the whole correspondence to
the papers, and there the matter is side-tracked.
The only Vic. League match that could
interest spectators drew over 20,000 of them to Vic-
toria Park on Saturday, in spite of driving rain
storms. ’Wood and South were to decide as to the
occupancy of the second and third places. The game
would have been more attractive had the ground been
less slippery, the ball less- greasy and the umpire
sufficiently intelligent to keep a grip of things. As
it was, the players lost all confidence in him, flouted
and bluffed him, and in the later stages played much
as they thought fit. This writer hates to berate an
official” who usually gets more curses and fewer pence
than he deserves, but there are occasions when it is
obvious he has mistaken his vocation, and this was
one of them. The Magpies took the lead at the
start, but lost it when the Red-and-Whites set going
a series of concerted rushes, and at one stage were
three goals in arrear. In the last quarter, however,
by organised, determined play, they crept up to
within two points of their opponents. Then the
bell rang, with the board showing: South, 56 points;
’Wood, 54. The position now is that South will play
St. Kilda, and ’Roy will collide with ’Wood, the
winners playing off ; and while this writer wouldn’t
care to back any one of the four and throw a goal
in, he opines that, given fine weather, ’Wood should
get there, while if undue moisture prevails, South
should about do it. In the other games ’Roy passed
Carlton out finally by 55 to 32. Geelong donkey-
licked St. Kilda with 108 to 40. Essendon des-
patched Melbourne with 52 to 42. Richmond anni-
hilated ’Varsity with 101 to 59. Just here it is
pertinent to reflect that though these Students have
won only one game in two seasons, they would be a
great team if they would practise and play concert-
edly. They have a champion centre, a tip-top
follower, many good place men and a star for-
ward in young Park. This lad, though assisted by
such poor organisation, has made and utilised so
many opportunities that he has this season kicked
four more goals than either ’Roy’s or St. Hilda’s
champion forward and twice as many as the best
’Woodman or Southerner —yet his team couldn’t win
a match. System beats individual brilliance every
time.
The second Vic. Ass. semi-final —North
v. Brunswick —on the East Melbourne ground proved
a disappointment to most of the 17,000 who “Darted ’
£367 to look at it. Up to five minutes after half-time
it was fast, close and exciting, with North three goals
eight behinds, ’Wick four goals two behinds—26 points
all. But thereafter, though all the 32 players
seemed to be moving about more or less hurriedlv,
the scoring was done by the Northern men only, the
ultimate tally being North, 64 points; ’Wick, the
same old 26” What the Brickies meant by it or
what they thought of themselves Heaven knows, but
their barraekers held fixed and freely-expressed
opinions on the subject, though the language in
which they vented them wouldn’t pass even in the
corroboree presided over by Alligator Johnson. The
match ended ’Wick’s ’l3 career, and left ’Scray and
North to scramble for the flag and the glory, ’Scray
having a second chance if it is defeated the first
time.
The Vic. Junior Ass. also luxuriated in a
well-attended semi-final—’Town Juniors v. Yarra-
ville —which was so vigorous that several players
were laid out, one having to retire with a damaged
thigh and another with a broken leg. Yarraville
ultimately got on top with 35 points to 30. The great
weakness Of these juniors is an abiding tendency to
leave their places and keep “on the ball” all the
time. This is not only tiring, but dangerous, because
when 30 lusty youths are scrimmaging about
close-packed, someone is pretty sure to get hurt.
Besides, that sort of play is neither spectacular nor
successful.
Saturday saw the absolute final end of
Union Rugby in Sydney for this season. South
Sydney secured the premiership of the B division
by blotting out Western Suburbs (13 to six), and
thus maintaining its lead of four points in the
Competition over North Sydney. This made a final
unnecessary, as it was not possible to wipe out the
margin in” one match. So the struggle ended with
South Sydney, 18; North Sydnev, 14; Manly, 12;
Balmain, 10; Western Suburbs eight; and St.
George, six. In Saturday’s games Balmain threw
St. George into the dust-box and shut the lid. the
figures being 33 to three. North Sydney overthrew
Manly by 10 points to six. #
Eastern Suburbs, Newtown, Balmain and
Western Suburbs were the first to fall in the sudden-
death competition for the Rugby League City Cup.
On Saturday last the remaining four fell upon one
another, and two more were killed off. North Syd-
ney rushed the bones of South Sydney to the ceme-
tery by 19 points to 10, and • Glebe just managed
to scramble out on top of Annandale with 11 points
to 10. The struggle between the two Sydneys was
very remarkable. The wind was strong, and South,
by ballooning the ball, turned it to the very best
account. North struggled hard, and put up a splen-
did defence, but the Southern score was
10 to nil. The case seemed hopeless, and
the patient was being measured for his
coffin, but North struggled on, and at half-time it had
put up five points. Then came its turn with the
wind, which was still strong. Against that breeze
and the forwards of the North, the Southern team
made no headway, while the Northmen put on 14
points, and so won out by 19 to 10. The Glebe-
Annandale struggle was very grim, being apparently
evenly balanced. They rocked and swayed, and
both'sides scored a try, but Glebe managed to add
the extras while Annandale failed, and so Glebe ended
the first half five to three. After that fortune oscil-
lated, and. when the whistle blew*. Glebe happened
to be leading by 11 to 10. Had the bugle gone
a minute or so later, it might have been the other-
wav—a feather would have turned the balance.
Next Saturday sees the final. After that John
Brown’s body will be mouldering in the dust.
The N.S.W. Football Leaguers got
Queensland down again in the return match, and
once more fell upon it, but on this occasion Queens-
land put up a harder kick', and was defeated by
only 21 to IT —a thing that might happen to the
best team on earth, which Queensland isn’t. The
great Northern State won the toss, but there did not
seem much to choose between the ends. However,
it astonished the natives by scoring almost immedi-
ately after the kick off, and added the extras, too.
N.S.W. let loose a fine passing charge with a view
to wiping things out, but although the try was
pressed home the kick at goal failed. Queensland
then added a couple with a penalty goal which is
declared by the experts to have been something
special. N.S.W. came away with another try, but
again failing to convert, Queensland still led by
seven to six. This shattering fact roused the
Waters. to renewed efforts, and they made the pace
so hot the Queensland combination started to go to
pieces under the strain. By half-time N. S. Wales
had made the score 16 to nine. But apparently that
burst of energy had left its effect behind it, and
in the second half the Ma State team failed to get
properly going. Queensland attacked, and, although
the defence was stubborn, it was broken up and
Queensland added eight points. But in the mean-
time Ma’s men had sneaked five, and so were still
on top. The team was to have played at Ipswich,
but owing to casualties, contusions and other damages
this was impossible. The victors made straight for
the Harbor and beauty, and arrived safely there on
Tuesday morning.
The Australian Leaguers put on a rather
novel game on Saturday last. The Native Born
Cornstalks met a team made up of Australians born
in other States. It was a great struggle, and in the
end the Native Born Cornstalks beat the other Native
Born with a margin of four points—32 to 28. The
scribes are advocating that it be made an annual
event, as it aroused a great deal of interest, and
attracted a good crowd. The crowd seems to have
got its money’s worth, as the game was said to have
been absolutely the finest played during the season.
It was Australia Day on the lioofball
fields of Maoriland on Saturday. The Rugby League
team walked into Auckland and ran through it with
27 points to two. Auckland is the League citadel
in the Rickettv Isles, and as Canterbury was route'!
by 45 to five," and Taranaki smashed by 16 to five,
the country is naked and defenceless before the in-
vaders. On the same day the N.S.W. Union Rugby
crowd descended on Taranaki, which holds the Union
championship of Massey’s Land, and carries the Ran-
furly Shield on its ample shoulders which are made
broad by leaning against the cow. A great struggle
ensued, but the Australians clawed their way to the
top by 11 points to nine. The same N.S.W. team
had previously downed Auckland Union by 15 points
to 13.
Admirers and spurners of racing, lovers
and scorners of lucre got a bomb when they read
in their Parliamentary news the other morning that
there are 484 racecourses in the Ma State. No
wonder Patrick Mcßenjamin waxes fat. What a
wealth of revenue lies in those 484 racecourses when
the Government gets sufficient sense to pass a Totali-
sator Bill! *
The rare profits in the game! Ex-Aus-
tralian trainer Wootton, in his English action against
Sevier, acknowledged having bought an estate in
Australia for £40,000, and said he had £2OOO a
year from Australian property. His son Frank, the
jockey, aged 19, had £31,000 invested in Australia.
“Amazing!” exclaimed Judge Darling. “Amazing!”
say all of us.
N.S.W. Professional Rowers’ League is
becoming more a reality than a dream. There is
no sport in which a strong, controlling hand can do
more good, at the present time, than rowing.
There is quite an army of young rowers coming along,
and the League has a golden opportunity to do a
service for itself and them.
On the Homebush-Granville Road (Syd-
ney), on Saturday, the landscape was obliterated
by a dust storm.” A cloud of solid earth, thick
enough to grow radishes in, obscured the landscape,
and through the murk and muck of it toiled the first
15 cyclists of the Ma State. They were seeking the
Individual Road Champion. They found him at the
10-mile, but didn’t know it. So they chased him the
other 30 miles, when he was revealed unto them as
E. W. Pedersen, of the Petersham Club, strangely
enough. C. M. Cutliffe, of the Redfern Club, and
W. Wylie, of the Petersham Club, and Brook, of the
Redfern Club, were the placed men in that order.
Pedersen takes the Dunlop Gold Medal and the Title,
while Cutliffe annexes the Toohey Gold Medal.
Pedersen’s time was 2hr. lmin. 40sec. for the 40
miles, and, considering the conditions, it was almost
miraculous.
The Motor Cycle Club of South Aus-
tralia announces that its proposed Reliability Test
run from Adelaide to Melbourne is fixed to start on
Monday, December 29. It will be spread over five
days, of which the second will be the toughest, when
the Coorong Desert will have to be navigated at 15
miles an hour as far as Kingston, a distance of 92
miles. After that, the pace rushes up to 20 miles
an hour to Robe, making a total run of 118 f miles
for the day. The total distance from capital to
capital is about 557 J miles. This will be the first
occasion that a motor contest of any description has
been held over this inter-State route, and the cross-
ing of the Coorong Desert gives it some of the snap
of a great adventure.
Looks as though the already struggling
game of cricket is to be further harassed in its pur-
suit of the nimble public bob. A body or shindykit
or something is now negotiating with the N.S.W.
Baseball Association to induce it to join in a ven-
ture to. run a summer division. The arrival of a
Yankee team here at the end of the coming summer
is giving the idea a boost, and as the Association
is endeavoring to get control of some enclosed
grounds it looks as though most serious business is
contemplated.
The resurrection of Jessop and the dis-
covery of young Tennyson has probably “bucked up”
English cricket a bit; but, at the beginning of
July, the scribes were l moaning that if an English
XI were wanted this season, there would not be a
single “Gentleman” in it. They also remarked,
what is about 384 times more important, that Eng-
land’s star professionals are mostly of the mature
age of 35 or over —-some of them a good deal over—
and the outlook for coming seasons is therefore
blue.
The much deferred Maoriland cricket in-
vasion of Australia will happen this coming season.
The first attack will be at Sydney, on December 9,
and matches against N.S.W., Queensland, Victoria
and South Australia will be sandwiched between
other events.
* * * *
“Mate”: The two youthful Australians
who have been playing chess for £5O a side and
the championship of Australia are as unlike the
alleged comic paper’s idea of chess players as they
well could be. V'iner, who" Won, is a typical up-
country Australian, 30 years of age 6ft. high,
unassuming, unemotional, stolid and hard-faced. Crack-
anthorp, the challenger, is a city bank-clerk, small,
spare and a bundle of nerves to look at. He is also
in early manhood. The result proved that sto.idity
is superior to nerves in a chess match of any length.
After standing up well to his opponent at first,
Crackanthorp dropped his bundle, and Viner won
by seven games to one.
Let us neioice ! I ! At last the ’Tienley-
-011-Parramatta Regatta” has been set down, for
better or worse, for October 11. The venture
has a strong whiff of society about it, and these
high society ventures have never been too successful
in Svdnev. The happenings at the opening of the
famous Hampden Riding, Driving and Cycling Club,
“an organisation to bring the nicest people together
in the nicest way,” many years ago, caused the
blood of high society to run cold. That was the
occasion when the Club let itself go at Centennial
Park, and an awfully-arrayed Chinese merchant
dashed down the incline, on a bike, with his pigtail
waving in the wind, between the late Sydney Burde-
kin and a tony A.D.C. The incident killed the
Hampden Riding, Driving and Wheeling Club, or
whatever it was, stone dead as a power in the land.
The London Daily Mail’s offer of £5OOO
to the British > aviator who could fly round* Great
Britain and Ireland on a British-built hydro-aero-
plane tempted only two entrants. Owing to engine
troubles one of these withdrew, and the other, an
Australian named Hawker, started at the beginning
of last week. After many adventures and narrow
escapes, he finally came to grief over Lough Shinny,
15 miles from Dublin. The machine fell 100 ft.
through a side slip, and although Hawker escaped
unhurt his mechanician, Kauper, sustained serious
injuries to his head and had an arm broken. The
coastguard rescued the men. It was a wonderful
flight, the aeronaut having sailed right up the east
coast of Britain, crossed Scotland over the Cale-
donian Canal, and traversed a large section of the
Irish coast before the disaster happened. He had
covered 1043 miles in 21 hours, and the Daily Mail
awarded him £lOOO of the prize he failed to win.
.Tust at present great glory is his. The same paper
is offering another huge prize for a trans-Atlantic
flight—an event for which there will probably be
even fewer entrants. Equally, if not more, daring
was the recent flight by four Farman biplanes,
mounted by French officers, across 500 miles of the
Sahara. They started from an aeroplane post on the
edge of the desert at Biskra (Algeria), and flew to
Touggourt, a military station in an oasis of the same
name. The whole four biplanes made the outward
trip safely, and next day returned without mishap.
The flight of 1000 miles in two days is not extra-
ordinary, but it was a daring business when the coun-
try over which it was made is considered. It is a
curious thing, but the average inhabitant of the
French territories in Northern Africa sees far
more aeroplane flights than does the average Aus-
tralian. Every French military post has several
machines in almost constant use. The desert air
seems to be favorable for aerial navigation. Aus-
tralia’s aerial backwardness is pathetic.
With his vaccination marks protected by
an elastic stocking, Australian aboriginal Jerry
Jerome met Jack Cordell in the Brisbane Stadium on
Saturday night, and outed him in exactly 2min.
35sec. ‘And it took the big fellow just about the
same space of time to recover his equilibrium.
Although so brief, it was a hot fight while it lasted.
Cordell towered over the elusive black, who opened
proceedings with a right pat on the cheek and a
piston-like wallop in the stomach. Cordell got in
close, and let fly a broadside of short body blows
which caused the Australian to gasp and clinch very
hard. But finding he could not imprison Cordell s
arms, Jeremiah jumped away, and as he went he
assumed a worried expression. Cordell followed up
and met a terrific swing on the jaw, and two
more in the stomach. Then he crashed on
and got home a left and right. As he was backing
away Jerry landed a left on the jaw. Cordell went
down with a bang, and stayed there, and the next
thing was the spectacle of the black citizen carrying
the fallen gladiator to his corner.
Next Saturday night will see Jeremiah
Jerome, of Australia, back in Sydney Stadium, up
against the warlike Harry Mansfield; and an inter-
esting scrap should follow. But the real titbit
comes on a week later, when the much-talked-of
ba.ue between Rat Bradley and Dave Smith will rage
like the Wowser in his fury. When he met Jim
Sullivan, Bradley scaled lOst. 131 b., but in this riot
he expects to heave about list. lib. of meat and
muscle around. Smith has promised to get as close
to list. 41b. as he can without weakening himself,
so as to make .the scrap betwen a middle and light
heavyweight as fair as possible. It should be a
hefty battle, for Smith is one of our best boxers,
and Bradley has knocked out every man he has met
in Australia. He is generally regarded as unortho-
dox —why, it is hard to say. He has the soundest
defence this writer has ever gazed upon, and his
footwork is perfect. If there is one thing more
than another that marks the scientific fighter, it is
his ability to use his feet. Let anyone mark how
Bradley uses his feet, and then say if he is unscien-
tific. Truly, he is unusual, in that he never worries
about scoring points, and goes straight in to end
things by a knock-out blow. And, as said before,
every time he has fought in this country he has
achieved his purpose and climbed to the pinnacle
of his ambition. So Smith is up against the propo-
sition of his life. „
Nowadays, immediately a boxer attains to
fame he feels called upon to write a book and let the
world know exactly how he does it. Tahmmy Burns
started it, and it has been going on ever since. Even
Jack Johnson arose to announce that he had penned
and inked a little thing of his own. In fact it is
said that Johnson has perpetrated two books, and
is threatening to write a third, but not in connection
with boxing. The latest arrival is “My Methods on
Boxing as a Fine Art,” by Georges Carpentier, cham-
pion of Europe.; It has been done into English by
F. Hurdman-Lucas, and is published at the offices of
Boxing, by Ewart, Seymour and Co., of London. A
number of portraits show Carpentier in various poses
in everyday dress, and represent him as being more
like a beauty-actor than a pug. However, Carpentier
knows what ‘he is writing about, and illustrates his.
own special wallops with great clearness, so that his’
aspiring young rival may read, mark, learn and out-
wardly punch the same. It is a fool’s game, as Burns
found out. Johnson read his book and carefully
arranged never to let little Tahmmy fight the sort of
scrap he had described with such exquisite lucidity.
In fact, the book gave Burns away, and he might as
well have struck Johnson with a family Bible as tried
the old carefully-expounded game on him.
Georges Carpentier throws some light on
ia dark subject. Everybody has noticed that the bulk
of the Yankee fighters who have raided these shores
have been hard hitters. Georges says it is due to the
fact that they use the ball only for show, and really
practise punching on human opponents who are
padded about the body and masked with face protec-
tors so that the man who is learning to pound can
let himself go. It is the first time the writer has
seen the statement, and if it is correct it is a
wonder that it is not more generally known.
The Australian career of Petty-Officer
Curran came to a sudden end last week, as far as
the Baker circuit is concerned. “Nutty” went down
to Melbourne to entertain the brethren by bashing
Doran, with Owen Moran as referee. But when he
got into the ring he either wouldn’t or couldn’t fight,
and apparently tried hard for a foul. Referee Mo
warned him some half-dozen times, but
apparently dreaming with one fixed idea in his mi?
So somewhere about half-way through the seonnii
round referee Moran woke him up and told him h
was disqualified. Reg Baker was on his wav ha t
from Adelaide, and on his arrival at Melbourne h
held an inquiry. He heard what “Nutty” had t
say, took evidence from his manager and inter
viewed the pressmen who were seated round th
ring, and then coming on to Sydney he got Moran's
report. The various accounts were unanimously
against Curran, so Baker cancelled his contract aid
disqualified him for all eternity as far as his Stadium*
are concerned. it was severe, but it enhances the
reputation of the Baker management for clean
business.
Remembering the magnificent showing
Waldemar Holberg had put up against Hughie
Mehegan, an enormous crowd swarmed into the great
Sydney Stadium to see the gallant Dane battle with
Herbert McCoy, of Melbourne, easily Australia’s fore-
most lightweight. McCoy is a splendidly plucky
fighter; McCoy is easily Australia’s foremost ring
general; McCoy is a scientific boxer, a man capable
of taking more than the average amount of punish-
ment and yet keeping his head; a brainy warrior
who can snatch victory from the very jaws of dis-
aster. And Herbert McCoy is the most unfair fighter
in his class in Australia to-day, so far as this writer
has seen. Curiously enough, it is when least hard-
pressed that he is foulest. If he were at the last
gasp there might be some excuse for it. But there
is none. It is when he is on top of the wave of
success that Herbert McCoy puts both his front feet
in the trough, and, to all appearance, deliberately
hangs on with one hand and uppercuts with the
other. On at least three occasions in his fight with
Waldemar Holberg, the Melbournian apparently-
tried to uppercut the visitor with his naked
forearm instead of his glove. If he persists in his
present practices, it is only a question of time til!
the Stadium management does with him as it did
with “Nutty” Curran, and disqualifies him for foul
fighting.
The fight, though stubbornly contested, was tedi-
ous. It was’ hard slogging all the time ; and a genuine
strenuous go from start to finish, in which neither of
the principals felt any ennui. Holberg’s crowning
disadvantage is the brevity of his reach. He coun-
ters every blow and follows up with the other fist;
and he is as quick as lightning in his returns. But
the shortness of his reach brings all his splendid
quickness to nought unless he can duck away from
the other’s lead. The longer arm 19 times out of
20 makes impact first, a fact that did Holberg’s
mouth and nose no good. He hurled himself into
the fray with magnificent recklessness, but the cool-
headed McCoy avoided his splendid rushes and fol-
lowed up with counter attacks that won him many
points. Yet there were occasions when Holberg got
in a succession of wallops which caused McCoy to
suddenly look 90 years older. McCoy’s face takes
on a strangely wizened expression when he stops a
few that hurt, and he looks as though the sins of the
world had fallen on him with a crash. The features
seem to suddenly crinkle, and the whole countenance
assumes the aspect of an over-fried egg, out of which
the eyes stare, and in the midst of which the lips
move "as if they were pronouncing an incantation.
Altogether, it is an unpleasant sight when McCoy
stops what is coming to him. Somewhere about half-
way through he assumed his wild aspect, and with
it so annoyed the Dane that he didn’t dare to go in
close to the unusual-looking object and finish it. The
bell brought relief, and after his minute’s respite it
was the same cheerful, warlike McCoy that came
out of the corner and mixed things. McCoy’s stamina
is splendid. As the battle raged on it became more
and more obvious that Holberg’s on}y chance of win-
ning was a knock-out; and he went for it delibef-
ately, regardless of punishment. But McCoy was
too good a ring general for that. Then Holberg s
right seemed to go, and he grew very chary of using
it for offence. Now his right had been his chief
offensive battery. But still he bored in bravely, and
swung his left about in a way that made anything
seem possible; sticking it straight out in front and
hurling himself bodily at the foe. One mighty swing
and uppercut just missed McCoy, who rushed m and
smote with left and right, and then adroitly carried
his diaphragm out of the line of a vicious stab.
McCoy’s footwork was certainly excellent. When
the last gong sounded, referee Scott placed his hand
on McCoy’s bright head, and for once there was only
approval from the massed faces around the roped
square.
* * *
Owen Moran, who is to box the polished
and elusive Matt Wells on September 27 at Syd-
ney Stadium, was welcomed to the Harbor City
the usual supper, and introduced to the scribes and
press agents and such like. A feature of the evemng
was the humorous account by Moran of how ne
refereed the last fight of “Nutty” Curran at Mel-
bourne, and of the things he said to that somnolent
warrior. Thdse things cost “Nutty two fights tna
were still on his programme, and came near to losis
him his share of the proceeds of the Melbourne on -
Said that the ex-Petty Officer will now returni
England, the place someone once described as in
Land of Hope and Glory.” Perhaps in that colder
climate “Nutty” Curran may definitely wake up.
* ■* l *
What looks like the commencement of a
fairly huge trust came to pass recently when tn
English Sofciety of Motor Manufacturers and ™
ers decided to standardise motor-tyre rims. A -
as the necessary gauges can be constructed, the
of the English motor manufacturers will fit- °nly .
made to the measurements adopted by thei s )■
It .is'an excellent idea as far as it goes; on
whole mass of makers begin to meet on
ground in this manner, they begin to rea
benefits of co-operation and the beauty of e
ing competition. And from that understa £
the combine is a mighty short step.


Whi*
*24
ISiA® »
\
\?UI
u ~/gh
A.
.
»SSS gg
& J
X
• Ji
.
W’rniTf
VV" Tv
- . X
;f J ! *
r/ i?t gg
r
■
I
:*»
/
'■
wMtmn a '''' M v * '
Wy KRUSE’S \p:-.
FLUID MAGNESIA
a wtsiti nt «ir o»:« «(?»: ;r rv
BflnjniMU>*.th«ctloatta Satc-aA:'.::-!.: ii -
•»!, to «0»?«!tU5 tfttU tirvc.-.i,
fj t?'* 1 cXhltltsd. -.j t yt:';-* :■
H 2 | P**tup«rterlrr la *ii etien, do Jtren
MttlK»Jb«urs»K*hm*.::a. , .3si-7.iat£ 1-
If W *UU Uit Kraut r.aifl Kutm
B , w s*t co*- of XMirtcuvt
la mm :f *a? cu.tr
otcc cr
-»■ ttUtn, two or u-«j UMj»etia;t.£ ,
tarn, ccliiwiir & ’oV, "Mtmouut
• ““tfe-v-' .
¥
m
FLUID
/Ay : wn dc
' .
yS9'
Thoroughbred Headwear
The Pick of the World’s Best Makes is fully represented
iu the Endless Variety of Hat Styles offered you at our
Store —every style a thoroughbred in every sense of the
word. From the standpoint of Sheer, Downright Value
it would be impossible to beat the two Seasonable
Samples of our Moderate Pricing that we are quoting
below.
THE "L.S,” FELT, 10/6 THE “SQUATTER,” 9/6
A Wonderfully Smart Hat, in
Fine-quality, Smooth Fur
Felt. Fashionable, Wide Band.
Bow at back, as shown (or
at side if desired). Stitched
Double Edges. Light, Cool,
Comfortable, Serviceable —all
Shades and Sizes —the Best
Hat you could possibly buy at
10/6. Also, in Rough Fur,
at the same figure.
Specially Designed for Austra-
lian “Outback” Wear. Finely
made in High-grade Fur Felt,
with 3-inch Brim—Narrow
Band. Easy Fitting—Light in
Weight. Will stand any
amount of rough use, and looks
Stylish enough for wear on
almost any occasion. In Drab
and Fawn Shades. Also, in
Wool Felt, for Knockabout
Wear, 2/6, 4/6.
SEND YOUR SIZE
No matter how far you are from us, and the Hat you want will reach
you by Return— Post Paid. Remember—“We Satisfy or
Refund.”
LINCOLN, STUART § CO. Pty. Ltd.
“Mail-Order Tailors and Outfitters,”
244-254 Flinders Street (Opp. R’l’y St’n), MELBOURNE.
Learn to Defend Yourself!
You may have all the qualifications; but
strength, determination and pluck, without
skill, will not avail you against a Scientific
Boxer.
The Scientific Boxer is cool, calm and col-
lected. lie is constantly drawing his opponent
into position. Puts the weight of his body
behind his blows. Plants his punches where
they are most felt. Confuses and bewilders
his opponent, by evading and countering his
attempts to “land.”
You would surely like to become a Scientific
Boxer. Now is your opportunity to learn.
I TEACH BOXING
BY POST.
The instruction is practical, simple, and
easily understood. It thoroughly explains
and illustrates every serviceable ' move in
Scientific Boxing.
Here is what one pupil reported;—
“I find all lessons remarkably inter-
esting. They are so thoroughly ex-
plained that anyone can catch on to the
meaning. I am beginning to feel some
confidence in myself already.”
W.M.R., Malanda, Q.
Full particulars of my methods, and fee for
tuition, are given in my interesting, 32-page
Booklet, “Scientific Boxing in Your Home.”
Write for your copy. Send three penny
stamps for postage.
Reg.L .(“Snowy”) Baker
234 Belmont Buildings, Castlereagh Street, Syd
ney.
'Dol": The picturesque Italian of whom
we read and hear has not yet appeared in
'\ estralia. though his countrymen are there
h> the swarm. Recently I had to inspect
six goldfield Italian-run hotels, where the
foreigners congregate and live much as
Chinamen exist in their quarters in Sydney
and Melbourne. Dancing and singing' were
in progress at each place. In fact, the gold-
field Italians seem to be always dancing and
singing when they are not asleep or at work
or jabbing each other with knives. The
“music” came from an accordeon or a con-
certina. There was a piano at each place,
but it stood idle. Though the dancing was
graceful, the performers were never clean in
person. The gentleman always took his coat
off. before beginning, and put it on at the
finish, just as he would after some heavy
work. As to the singing, anything more
discordant could hardly be conceived of. Not
a single solo was given ; everyone joined in.
shouting and roaring, and struggling to give
an imitation of 14 sozzled bulls at the tail-
end of a smoke concert.
ANOTHER WIN for
SHELL
99
Automobile Club of Australia.
ECONOMY TEST.
Held on the 9th August, 1913,
From SYDNEY to MEDLOW BATH.
]’Ik.ST PLACE— 19.71 h.p. Vauxhall,
27.2 miles per gallon, on “SHELL”
BENZINE.
SECOND PLACE—I 2 h.p. Talbot,
28.6 miles per gallon, on “ SHELL”
BENZINE.
V
JUST OPENED. NEW SHIPMENTS.
AYRES’, BUSSEY’S,
DAVIS’ and SLAZENGER’S
TENNIS RACKETS and BALLS.
Catalogue Posted Gratis.
A Very Fine Cigar
at a Very
Reasonable Price.
My “La Nova’’
—A DUTCH CIGAR
de LUXE.
I want you to try a
box of these cigars, as
I know when you try
them you will say “At
Last! Here is the
cigar I have been
looking for. A mild
cigar that is pleasing
in flavor, delicate in
aroma—reasonable in
price.”
They cost only
30/- per 100.
Packed in boxes of 25,
7/6 per box.
Postage on one box,
6d.; inter-State, Sd.
Write for a copy of
my Catalog, “A Book
of Good Smokes.”
A. M. SOLOMON
“ CIGAR EXPERT,”
173 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Actual Size.
The Rigney Shoes for Men
are made of the best leather money can buy.
They are perfect in workmanship, design
and finish, distinctive in appearance, and
full of comfort and service.
They fill every requirement for dress or
everyday use; in fact, they set the fashion
m Gent.’s High-grade Footwear.
The boot shown is a Patent Calf Oxford
Shoe, latest perforations.
Made-to-order Style.
A High-grade,
Also, in Tan and Black Velour Calf, '
2 51- and 27/6
Postage 9d. extra.
Write for a Copy of our Illustrated Catalog
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.,
* * Th#» Men ’« P vr»l ncStra uini. _ j. . r* • ..
The Men s Exclusive fiigh«gra de Shoe Parlors,”
305 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Building's, Edward Street, BRISBANE.


Hunyadi Janos
Liver disturbances are, as a ru'e, cfuc to indiscretions of diet,
to excess of wine and to want of exercise. The condition, how-
ever, may be promptly and thoroughly remedied by a wineglass-
ful of Hunyadi Janos Natural Aperient Water taken every
morning on arising, before breakfast. It brings relief in the
natural, easy way. Bottled at the springs, just as nature
creates it and intends it should be taken. Sold by all chemists.
The Famous NATURAL Aperient Water.
L L AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austra-
lasian, 6d. weekly —an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the offices. 115 High Ilol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
Tiil'i Australian Magazine—THU LOMi
HAND. The National Monthly. Price, 6(1
JASON
Unshrinkable
HOSIERY.
p
city
\GES FOR EVER YWOM AN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
or country should miss.
Empire Biographs and
Kelvin Generating Sets.
Still to the Front, and Showing the Way to all Others.
These plants are now firmly established with
all kinds of picture showmen.
FOR THE PERMANENT SHOW, and
FOR THE TRAVELLING SHOWMAN.
THE SILENT EMPIRE is a British-built
Bioscope, with All Steel Sprockets, Maltese
Cross in Oil Bath ; Flickerless, Fireproof.
THE KELVIN SETS are direct-coupled dynamos
to two-cylinder engines. Very portable, and,
above all, absolutely reliable.
LET US SEND YOU PARTICULARS OF THESE
OUTFITS.
We also still stock the BEARD BIOSCOPES —-
those exceptionally good machines for travelling.
Outfits from £45.
n
r
sz
S2E7*
/
, KELVIN
GENERATING SET
JERDANS LTD.,
393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ALEXANDER GUNN (St. SONS, Little Collins St., Melbourne
The Shares will be allotted according to order of application.
A copy of the Prospedus has been filed with the Registrar-General.
PROSPECTUS of
PLACE MANSIONS
LIMITED
PORTLAND
(To be Registered under the Companies Act 1910.)
CAPITAL £50,000, in 5000 Shares of £lO each
of which
3200 are offered to the Public at £lO each, payable £5 per share on
application, £5 per share on allotment.
500 are to be issued fully paid up to the Promoter.
1300 are to be held in reserve for future issue.
5000
The proceeds of this issue will be placed to the credit of the Company without
deduction, except for brokerage and flotation fees and expenses. A brokerage
will be paid of 5 per cent, on application money.
Flotation fees and expenses, £375.
One of the most conspicuous features of modern social life is the tendency to avoid the cares and
annoyances of housekeeping by adopting life in flats. Though much in vogue in the older countries of
the world it is only comparatively recently that this habit has developed in Australia, and, to cope with
the demand, mansions of flats are gradually becoming features of our city and suburban environment.
The essential element of success in establishing mansion flats consists in selecting the right suburb
and locality, and in erecting structures that shall be commanding in position, artistic in design, and
commodious and convenient in their internal arrangements.
No suburb of Melbourne can surpass St. Kilda as regards qualifications for residential purposes. It
is needless to dwell unon the charm of situation, bold views and delightful approach from the City that
have so long made it "the favorite summer suburban resort of Victoria.
The Company is being formed for the purpose of acquiring from the vendor, E. Branfill Harrison, all
his right, title and interest in and -“"tain op'-mns which he holds over the property hereinafcer
described.
The property which is being acquired by the Cs w any presents advantages quite unrivalled in any
part of St. Kilda.
It consists of a triangular block of land, three acres in area, bounded by Acland Street, Barkiy
Street and Belford Street respectively; the City Cable Tram to North Carlton runs along the Acland
Street frontage' the Electric Tram to Brighton runs along the Barkiy Street frontage; and the 1 rahran
. .. , o+ vnnc fmm thp F.snlflnaHp. via Carlisle Street and Balaclava Hoad, to
Esplanade.
ictn<n.ic.
The nronertv itself consists of two estates, the first the Oakrood estate, the property of Mr. F. P. C.
Never li acres in area, containing a fifteen-room, two-storeyed brick house, standing in a charming,
well-wooded garden, with extensive lawns and flower beds.
The second estate comprised in this property is that of Mr Harvey Patterson, 1-1 acres in extent
Tavonna now containing a fine villa residence. This property has tor one boundary the entire length
of Belford Street, and also frontages to the two main streets, Barkiy and Acland streets.
if intended to erect a succession of stately mansions of flats, ultimately five in number, commencing
, 'JLdlHine- and converting the Oakrood house into a five-storeyed mansion of flats, containing some
h Y y>= The rflans fo? this have been supplied by a leading architect, Mr. A. H. Fisher, showing
m y et in outline, and with an interior designed to fulfil every want, and fitted throughout
a -ew 111 the latest conveniences. There will be suites of three, four and five rooms, to suit varying
Wl quirements and single bachelor apartments. These will be let, either furnished or unfurnished, as
onnrnach to the building will be along a fine carriage drive, leading up to a handsome entrance
hall withTnner hall furnished with an artistic and roomy inglenook.
re will be a spacious Dining-room, app. 40ft. x 22ft., where residents will be supplied with
daintilv-cooked meals at a moderate tariff.
‘ hm. Twn.-ritwr room also for the use of residents, fitted and furnished in a style commensurate with
the restof the building, leads into a large, well-designed Conservatory.
the rest o! a bl e awning
for
r ' ~ _. f t) ie roof will be converted into a delightful Roof Garden, fitted with a mow
, hot weaker from which will be obtained a fine panoramic view of the Ba; , and sin
p;nng
with
its ever-changing vanity.
Provisional Directors:
CHARLES PATTI SON, J.P., Moonee Ponds. R. J. MOOREHEAD, Hawthorn.
E. P>RANFILL HARRISON, 97 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Bankers:
ROYAL BANK, MELBOURNE.
Solicitor:
To be appointed.
Auditor:
To be appointed.
Secretary (-pro tern.)
E. BRANFILL HARRISON.
Registered Office:
London House, 97 Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
The corner of the property, at the junction of Acland and Barkly streets, at present occupied by a
large, brick rink, it is proposed to convert into twelve Shops, and a large Garage.
The Garage at the corner, it is certain, would fulfil a long-felt want. One need only view the many
hundreds of motor-cars that pass and repass in the vicinity daily to realise what a boon a garage, so
close to the Esplanade, would be to motorists and the residents of these Mansions.
Although these buildings would revolutionise the traffic at this corner, yet, such is the fine growth
of the trees on the property that they are and will be completely concealed from the Mansions, and would
not in any way impair their privacy.
On the completion of the first mansion, and its successful launching, it is proposed to at once erect
a second, similar one, to be followed by three more in succession, the complete proposition beina a set ot
five mansions of simi’ar design and appointments, standing in common grounds, artistically laid out in
lawns, shrubberies and flow’er beds, and forming one homogeneous whole.
It will thus be seen that the Company is acquiring a self-contained block, which it is proposed to
convert into a populous residential and business area, while still retaining the beauty and privacy ot
the Central Mansions.
The Capital subscribed, £32,000, will amply suffice for the purchase of the freeholds, less a smad
amount to remain out on mortgage, and for the building and furnishing of the first mansion, while >_
reserve Capital, £13,000, will be available for the commencement of the second, the question of raising
the extra Capital for the completion of the whole scheme by the issue of debentures, by increase w
Capital, or by mortgage, being left for subsequent decision by the shareholders.
In these estates the Company has ample security for the Capital invested, in valuable freeholds of
rising value, and buildings that fulfil a want, and will be in demand. Shops in that neighborhood ar
needed, and it is only necessary to note the local demand for same to realise that they will let ream,
and command good rentals.
The returns from the letting of the flats, the dining-room, the catering, the shops, garage, etc., wiH.
on a close estimate, return app. 15%, after due deductions for all contingencies.
A large proportion of the shares have already been applied for, and it is anticipated that the whol
will be readily taken up.
The several persons whose names and addresses are subscribed are desirous of being formec
Company, in pursuance of the Memorandum of Association, and respectively agree to take L nul
shares in the capital of the Company set opposite to their respective names: —
NAMES, ADDRESSES AND DESCRIPTION OF SUBSCRIBERS.
R. J. MOOREHEAD, Yarradale, Fordham Rd., Hawthorn, Journalist
EDM ARD BRANFILL HARRISON, London House, 97 Elizabeth Street, Secretary
CHARLES PATTISON, Mantell Street, Moonee Ponds, Investor
HARVEY PATTERSON, c/o Dalgety & Co., Bourke Street, Investor
FRANCIS PETER CHARLES BEYER, 201 Barkly Street, St. Kilda, Investor
Any details and particulars, as to estimates, plans, etc
Office.
will be supplied on application
“The Old Soldier” : There is some quite
unexpected plain speaking in the Contem-
porary Review about the alleged gift by
the Malay States to the British Government
of a big warship at a cost of £2,250,000.
Even if the Malay rulers had given this sum out
of their own private resources, it has been shown
that their position is one of such dependence upon
their British advisers, and upon their British nomi-
nated Councils, that the gift must altogether lack
spontaneity. But not even this semblance of spon-
taneity is to be found here.
The gift was engineered by the Chief Sec-
retary, Brockman, and the High Commis-
sioner, who got the Raja of Perak to make
the necessary motion in the Federal Council
with the High Commissioner in the chair.
There is no doubt that the heavy strain of
providing money for constantly increasing
armaments has forced the British Govern-
ment to this scheme, but even now the cost
of the maintenance of the ship has not been
put on the Estimates, and nothing has been
provided for its replacement when wrecked,
worn out or obsolete. The Conteai porary
finds a parallel to the Malay battleship :
It was under the stress of a somewhat similar
financial pressure that the Government of 1765 was
induced to pass the famous Stamp Act, which was
the cause of the revolt of the American colonies.
That is a nice, cheerful sort of suggestion,
though the Contemporary is careful to add
that it does not suggest that the Malay
States may revolt, as the Americans did.
But it is such an easy way of getting out of
a stringent financial situation that the job
is pretty sure to be repeated sooner or later
with other dependencies. The Malay States
are having a boom just now, and the new
ship will be paid for out of a surplus which
ought to have been spent on roads, educa-
tion and sanitation. Meantime the death-
rate among plantation coolies has doubled
in three years, and planters are resisting
the enforcement of sanitary regulations.
—-
“Bobstay” : Much to the surprise of those
interested and to the dismay of the Cook
Ministry, the Federal Navigation Act has
received the royal assent,, and will become
law as soon as the flabbergasted Cabinet has
courage to issue the necessary proclamation.
Sydney Mourning Herald, in the first
spasm of amazement, called loudly on Cook
to refuse to proclaim the Act, on the ground
that he didn’t pass it, but he is hardly so
fresh a bird as that. There are bushels of
opportunities for delay, but, sooner or later,
the mark has to be toed. The chief point of
interest raised by the new legislation is the
definition of coastal trade in the clause
framed to prevent foreign and British vessels
carrying inter-State passengers and cargo,
unless their owners observe all the condi-
tions to which Australian-owned vessels are
liable. This will hit the P. and O. and
other piebald cos. hard. Cos. like the Orient
will also be hampered, though to a
less degree, and it is threatened that the
British lines will retaliate by refusing to
tender for the mail contracts. If* this is
done, Australians will have to mess around
and do the job in a hopeless way themselves
with the aid of State ships or the insignifi-
cant cockle-shells, none of which run m ,„i
over 10,000 tons, belonging to the Thu
Steam Ship Co the A.U.S.N. or some BU S
deplorably helpless concern. It shows vo‘
the trouble a white nation makes for itseli
when it has the audacity to interfere with
Chow- and Lascar-wage competition in it,
coast-wise trade. Still it is pleasing to re
member that Australian-owned ships ocea"
sionally carried the mails to England in th
old days, and that ships both owned ami
built in Australia have carried mails m
China. They used to build ships even at
places like Jervis Bay and Eden and the
Northern Ilivers before the Congestion dis*
ease got N.S.W. down, and even after the
Congestion disease got N.S.W down Sydney
was a big shin-building centre till the bor
rowing and importing disease fell on this
country’s chest and made a finish. And
Hobart —think of it I—once rivalled Glasgow
as a shipbuilding centre, but the importing
and foreign-borrowing disease got it down
also, and it died through not putting a ",()
per cent, duty on imported ships. \Vp|l
this country may get over all these diseases!
From “The Pariah”: —
The easy way to explain how the trouble in China
is going to end is to say that out of the dragon's
labor will come a new dynasty—that of Yuan. But
the end will not be so simple. In 1908, after al4
weeks’ trip in the interior of China—my last and
longest in that part of the great country—l ven-
tured in a Bulletin par. to suggest that 'the king-
dom would eventually split up into three parts
according to racial, climatic, linguistic and (less
markedly) religious differences; and the more I
watch the development of the Chinese situation the
more inevitable this seems to be. In the South there
is a degenerate mixed population, in which Chinese
Filipino, Arab, Parsee, the undefined Hokka and
other elements are injudiciously jumbled. When a
foreigner speaks to a Middle Chinese of the Asiatic
he has met in the Hongkong-Canton area, he re-
ceives an apologetic but firm explanation: “B’long
Cantonese. Man that side no b’long pukka Chinese. 1 '
These southerners are entirely cordial in their hatred
of their more northern, purer-blooded cousins, from
whom they differ markedly in stature and feature.
Shanghai and Canton have little in common, even
their languages being mutually unintelligible. The
same is true of the Middle and the North, only the
feeling of hostility is much more intense, for the
North is regarded as the home of the Manchu
ciespoiler.
The South, having for centuries been accustomed
to an order of affairs in which brigandage and piracy
were the profitable recreations, will be a sort of hatin-
American State, with a cheerful scrap-and-come-again
policy, and much sudden death for its rulers. The
Middle, which embraces all the best of the race, will
become a powerful merchant-State, and its patriot-
ism will, no doubt, lead it along the thorny path
of a civilisation backed up by militarism. It will
certainly have a republican form of government. The
North, insignificant in area, will for a time probably
maintain the worst traditions and intrigues of Asiatic
courts. Here a diplomatic battle between Japan and
Russia will be fought, and the country will probably
be again - the theatre of war, when a much wiser
and better prepared Bear will, swift and sharp, des-
cend upon a certain Monkey whose head is very
swelled—and Russia will secure its long-sought-for
access to the sea.
For manv years yet China will provide the news-
papers with sensational incidents. Which leads me
to remark that some steps should be taken to estab-
lish direct wireless communication with “the East.”
The Sydney Telegraph casuallv remarked some
months ago that the Thursday Island plant could
speak with Hongkong. Then why not give our
operators the useful exercise?


LOOKING FOR TROUBLE
ASSU MARSHALL U aIways befor^yo^^ 1 Buyei% y ° U mUSt keep the naraP
Once you pass the-
MARSHALL Steam Engine
ln be * ta - it,s *«>•«•««*««
“RELIABILITY” is Marshall’s Watchword, and every Engine is backed by
. Marshall’s guarantee certificate. Dy
I
•7
ir%
\\
*yot
Liplit and Heavy Pattern TRAC-
TION ENGINES.
Single Cylinder and C<un>'ound
specially built for Australia.
Portables, 2 to 35 H.P., 120-1501 b.
working pressure.
H<>rizontal and \ ertical Stationary
Engines, all sizes.
Marshall’s \ ertical Boilers, 2 to 12
H.P., 1001 b. working pressure.
Colonial Type Boilers.
Special Engine Oils, Packing, Belt-
ing, etc.
Descriptive Catalogues Free.-
•Cash or Liberal Terms.
WASTING
TIME.
Probably more time hr annually wasted with
faiulty Oil Engine* than with any other
power.
“Time is money” —so why waste time in
osing an unreliable Engine.
Let us send you a catalogue explaining fully
the merits of
The “Big Chief”
Everywhere Acknowledged
“America’s Champion.”
This Engine is hopper-cooled and fitted with Wizard Magneto Extended Crank
Shaft, Double Fly Wheels and Muffler.
USES KEROSENE OR BENZINE AS FUEL.
Write to us for advice before placing your order elsewhere.
Catalogues Free. Very Easy Terms. Discount for Cash.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO. Limited
161 Clarence Street, Sydney.
AUTOMATIC
STARTS ITSELF! STOPS ITSELF!
that is all
that is needed
to start or stop the patent
SIMPLE. - EFFICIENT
NO COSTLY ACCUMULATORS
PRACTICALLY NO ATTENTION
FOUR
HIGHEST
AWARDS
So/e Makers,
R.A.LISTER*C9ttP
Dursley. Glos.
ELECTRIC LIGHT PLANT
(Lister-Bruston System —Patented).
This plant generates electricity automatically, and does away with large and
expensive storage battery. Can be started from drawing-room or bedroom.
With the exception of keeping the plant clean, lubricating and filling the
tanks, no attention is required.
Upon switching on the lights the plant works, and when the lights are turned
off the plant stops automatically.
The set is self-contained, and is delivered ready to work. No erection or
foundations necessary ; all one has to do is to connect to the wires to the house,
shop, hall, hotel, or town lights, and fill up the tanks with oil. It is exceptionally
cheap as regards lighting costs, the user being able to enjoy all the many advantages
of electric light, at a rate per candle power cheaper than most systems of petrol
gas, acetylene, and other artificial lights, and have current always ready for lights,
fans, cooking, pumps, saws, separators, milking and chaffcutting, sewing and oi lei
machines.
Is absolutely safe and reliable; no smell or fumes, dirt or smoke.
LET US SEND YOU FULLER DETAILS.
Made in Sizes from 20 to 5000 LIGHTS.
AGENTS- ,
New South Wales: W. G. WATSON 8 CO. LTD., 279 Clarence Street, and
426-430 Kent Street (4 doors from Town Hall), Sydney.
Queensland: WINCHCOMBE, CARSON LTD., Creek Street, Brisbane.
Victoria: SUTHERLAND 8 ASHMAN, Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Stewart Dawson « Co.
(AUST.) LIMITED.
Strand Corner, 412 George St., Sydney.
Doubly attractive is Stewart Dawson's beautifully-designed
Silvenvare when we consider those FIRST COST PRICES
that have made this firm famous throughout the Commonwealth.
II rite for Illustrated Art Catalogue— sent post free on request.
F 6139.
Silver- plated
BUTTER
KNIFE,
2/6
mm
msmm
E7122.—A1 quality Silver-plated TOILET SET, com-
prising Powder Box, Jewel Box, Hairpin Box, Safety
Pin Box and Tray. Price,
60/-
T
3
G.4269.—Silver-plated ASPARAGUS DISH, with
Removable Rack,
40-
We pay postage on all goods to any address.
AUSTRALIA: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND: Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin.
LONDON : 73 to 81 Regent Street, W.; and 19 to 21 Hatton Garden, E.C.
THE REXONOLA
wm
i
; E' 4i
. I
, '
THE KING OF ALL
TALKING MACHINES.
WE introduce this splendid musi-
cal instrument to the Public
with every confidence, know-
ing that it is the finest sound-reproduc-
ing instrument that has» been made.
Handsome in appearance, solidly and
faithfully. built of carefully selected
material, it is beautifully finished, and
will be aii admired addition to any
home, no matter how well furnished.-
The Cabinet or concealed horn style
is undoubtedly the instrument of the
future for home entertainment. In
appearance and economy of space, and
for convenience of operation, it is far
in advance of anything hitherto offered.
The patented sound chamber of the
Bexonola is an entirely new design, and
gives a tonal result which is a revela-
tion, and must be heard to be appreci-
ated. The tone is full in volume, rich
and clear, without noisiness, and the
quality is delightful.
The Flush Top, with removable motor board, is a feature of the
Ilexonola which is found in no other instrument. Those who have had
experience of other cabinet instruments, in which the operating parts are
at the bottom of a dark, dust-filled pit, will appreciate this feature. They
will find it a pleasure to operate the Bexonola, in which everything is so
placed as to be clearly viewed and conveniently handled.
By a simple operation, all that is necessary being the turning of four
screws, the motor board, with motor attached, can be removed for the
occasional oiling that is necessary.
The Motor of the Bexonola is the finest quality Swiss, with perfected
worm gear governor system, ensuring steady and silent running. We
guarantee the Bexonola motor, and will replace, free of charge, any part
that is found to be defective.
Until you have listened to Caruso or Melba singing through this
beautiful instrument in your own home, the wonderful .charm of the
Bexonola is not really known to you. This delightful instrument will soon
be universally admitted as the first musical necessity in a modern drawing-
room. Ask for our New Illustrated Catalogue.
JACKSON MACDONALD
457 KENT STREET (Corner Drain Street), SYDNEY.


LADIES! You Want
a CLEAR SKIN.
mmm
by purifying the blood, removes
ugly blemishes and leaves the
skin clear and healthy.
A regular dose of “GOL-
CRYST” keeps the blood in
good order, and makes one
bright.
Free Sample posted by Rocke,
Tompsitt & Co., Melbourne.
PACKETS, 3d., 6d. and Is.
Williams’ Holder Top
Shaving Stick.
This is the good old
Shaving Stick known to
every gentleman
in Australia, but
now presented in
a new and attrac-
tive form, greatly
enhancing it s
convenience and
economy.
PFORATJOtfs
1
LIAMS
Your chemist will be glad
to show it to you.
Freedom, Ease & Comfort
The ...
WELMAR
Shirt
Pat. 1274
24/5/’ll.
Stocked by
Leading
Mercers and
Outfitters.
Manufactured by
Welch, Margetson 8 C\
Pty. Ltd.
lllllltlllllllllllllli
V
a— *
Regii
NOTE THE SLOT
The Best Tooth Powder
in The Best Container
Jewsbury&Brown's
Oriental
Hoof h Powder
6-&1/*
in the
United Kingdom
All the Family may
use the same box.
WHOLESALE AGENTS in SYDNEY
Messrs. Elliorf Bros. Ltd.
. . F.H Faulding & Co.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Have you prown tired of weaving useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE 10 WEAR, but one
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Never mind if you have tried everything
This is ENTIRELY NtW,
ft it in fact THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET 'INVENTED. It doc* away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
fh reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE. COMFORT, and SECURITY.
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
Tt is suitable for men, women Ar children.
u DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET PO TEO FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Colline-et., Melbourne, Vic.
“Linseed
Compound
Compound,” Trade Mark of Ivay’s.
Essence of Linseed for Coughs and Colds.
The Union Bank of Australia,
LIMITED.
BALANCE-SHEET, FEBRUARY 28, 1913.
LIABILITIES.
Capital—■
Authorised,
£6,000,000 ;
Issued,
£4,500,000 ;
less reserve
liability,
£3,000,000 ;
paid up . . £1,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund—. ;
Invested in the
names of trus-
tees, as per
contra,
£1,000,000 ;
not specifically
invested,
£500.000 .. 1,500,000 0 0
balance of undi-
vided profits. . 149,002 12 6
£3,149,002 12
Circulation
Deposits (inclu-
ding inscribed
stock deposits)
Bills payable and
other liabilities
(including re-
serves held
against contin-
gencies)
£201,327 0 0
12,170,879 8 11
1,707,766 6 3
24,079,972 15
6
£27,228,975 7 8
ASSETS.
Specie on hand, and cash balances £3,858,828 10 0
Bullion and advances on bullion.. 189,569 2 4
Money at call and short notice in
London .. •• • ... •• 675,000 0 0
Investments —■
On account of
Reserve Fund:
Consols,
£703,125; lo-
cal loans 3 per
cent, stock,
£ 2 2 9,4 4 3 ;
guaranteed 2 f
per cent, stock,
£ 3 3,4 9 6 ;
Transvaal Gov-
ernment 3 per
cent, guaran-
teed stock,
£33,936 ..£1,000,000 0 0
Other investments—
Consols and
other stocks of,
or guaranteed
by the British
Government,
£137,028/12/10 ;
Indian and
Colonial Gov-
ernment stocks,
£331,852/3/9 ;
municipal and
other securities,
£321,175/14/4 790,056 10 11
1,790,056 10 11
Balance of remittances and drafts
in transit, and bills receivable
at London office . . .... 3,978,057 19 5
£10,491,512 2 8
Bills discounted, loans and other
securities at the branches and
in London . . . . • • 16,229,308 7 9
Bank premises in Australia and
New Zealand .. .. .. 390.683 13 3
London leasehold
premises . . £142,304 19 4
Reserves against
same and ac- j
crued interest 24,833 15 4
—— 117,471 4 0
£27,228,975 - 7 8
STATEMENT OF PROFITS.
Balance of undivided profits on 31st August, 1912 . .
Less Dividend and bonus —January, 1913 ~
?
Leaving a balance of .. . . • • •••••••
Profits of the past half-year, after making provision in respect of bad
and other contingencies . .
.. £148,348 16 4
. . 105,000 0 0
£43,348 16 4
and doubtful debts
..£337,085.11 3
Remuneration to the local directors,, and salaries
and allowances to the colonial staff..
General expenses in the colonies, ' including rent,
taxes,' stationery, etc. •• ••
Remuneration to the board of directors and
auditors, salaries of London office staff, rent,
taxes, stationery, and general expenses.
Income tax
£111,418 6 8
43,585 4 4
17,171 11 0
9,250 13 1
181,431 15
Deduct:
Transfer to Reserve Fund
Balance of undivided profits at this date
1
H. P. STURGIS,
JOHN DENNISi'OUN,
HUGH FLOWER,
London, Ist July, DDL
Directors.
A. 0. WILLIS, Manager.
0. M. SHANNON, Accountant.
AUDITORS’ CERTIFICATE AND REPORT.
In accordance with the provisions of section 113 of the Companies (Consolidation) Act, 1908, we
report to the shareholders as follows: —
We have examined the above balance-sheet with the books at head office, and have had access to the
branch accounts transmitted to the head office from Australia and New Zealand. AVe have verined the
correctness of the cash, money at call and shore notice, investments, and the bills of exchange held in
London, and having obtained all the information and explanations we have required, we are of opinion
that such balance-sheet is properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the
company’s ahairs according to the best of our information, and the explanations given to us, and as shown
by the books of the company and the said branch accounts.
WHINNEY, SMITH & WHINNNEY, (
London, E.C., Ist July, 1913. Chartered Accountants, 1
Auditors.
REPORT OF PROCEEDINGS AT THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF THE
PROPRIETORS, HELD IN LONDON, 21st JULY, 1913.
Mr. H. P. STURGIS in the Chair.
The Chairman moved the adoption of the report and accounts as follows*.
Gentlemen, —It now becomes my duty to move the adoption of the report and accounts, and, in doing
so, I shall not have to detain you very long, because the half-year under review, ending 28th February
last, has been really an uneventful one. At the same time, the Bank’s trading again snovvs very satisfac-
tory results. After making provision for doubtful debts and contingencies, we have been able to Place
£50,000 to the reserve fund, raising that fund to £1,500,000, and to declare a dividend which, with
the bonus, is equal to 14 per cent, per annum. In this connection it is interesting to note that tor the
first time in the Bank’s history the total of the reserve fund equals its paid-up capital, thus the paid-up
capital and the reserve fund together amount to £3,000,000 ; and these, with the reserve liability ot
proprietors, equal to a further j 1.3,000,000 on the shares existing on 28th 1 ebruary, formed a total ot
£6 000,000. This shows a position of strength which should be eminently satisfactory to the depositors
and the Bank’s customers generally. When the issue of new shares, now being offered, is completed, a
further amount of £900,000 will be provided, of which £500,000 will be paid-up capital and £400,000
premium account, which in due course will be added to the reserve fund. 1 may point out here that the
success of the issue of the new shares is already assured, these new shares commanding a substantial
premium in the market over the price at which they are being offered to the shareholders. The directors
have every confidence that this increase to the Bank’s resources can be employed to good advantage. Ihe
figures in the balance-sheet call for no comment from me. The incidental increase usual in February in
the item “Balance of remittances and drafts in transitu and bills receivable London Office, and the
consequent decrease in “Specie on hand and cash balances,” are again shown. The liquid and readily
realisable assets amount to £10,491,000, while our liabilities to the public amount to £24,080,000.
After allowin'* for the t 1,000,000 of investments set aside for the reserve fund, the liquid assets amount
to 7/10 in the £1 of our liabilities. Our investments at the close of the half-year called for no provision
for depreciation; and the position was the same at the end of May; but since then, as you are no doubt
aware there has been a severe drop in the value of securities generally, and , to-day our own investments
show some depreciation on the.prices at which they stand in our books, for which depreciation, however,
vour directors have made full provision. The stringency of money in the Commonwealth and Dominion
has continued throughout the half-year, and though there may be some signs of the monetary position
becoming easier, there are many enterprises, both public and private, only waiting for such conditions to
corhe forward as borrowers; so that the demand from various quarters .is. likely, for some time, to keep
nace with the supply The wool clip, owing to the heavy mortality in the early part of 1912—estimated
' at about 9 000 000 sheep and lambs—-showed a substantial decrease, stated at between 250,000 and 300,000
bales Prices ’ obtained however, for the wool have been Very satisfactory. The harvest, prospects of
which for some time were discouraging, has, owing to very favorable conditions at the ripening stage,
exceeded expectations, and resulted in a crop of about 80,000,000 bushels, considerably better than the
previous year, and well up to the average of recent years Dairying, which also for a time suffered
from the drought now promises well, and is an increasing industry, especially in New Zealand. Dairymen
also are paying more attention to the selection of their cows, drafting inferior animals, and replacing them
with animals of higher quality. Real estate business has naturally been restricted by the tightness of
monev which has also affected trade to some extent. Trade, however,, is generally sound, and very few
failures are reported The policy of closer settlement is, generally speaking, being steadily pursued by
the various Sthte Governments, and the resulting increase in population cannot but.be of advantage, to
the various localities As to the future. The season opened under very favorable conditions, good
autunin rains havin'* fallen over nearly the whole of the wheat belt in Australia, and over a very large
and important section of the, pastoral .area. A. telegram from the general maanger, received in the last
few davs reports as follows: “Conditions in Western Australia very fair; South Australia, rain wanted;
all other States very good. To-day I see in The Times a notice from the Agent General of South
Australia statin'* that useful rains have fallen, and we have just received a telegram to the effect that
there have been good rains also in portions of AVestem Australia. It is always a pleasure to the
directors and I am sure to shareholders also, to recognise by their thanks how much they feel is due to
the staff’ for any good results which are shown in the half-year; and I would ask you again on this
occasion to join with the directors in tendering their thanks to Mr. Russell, the general maanger, and to
Air Willis the London maanger, and to all serving under tHem, for the loyal and able manner in
which thev’ have carried out their duties. In this connection, it may interest shareholders to know that
the general manager has lately been to New Zealand, where he visited nearly all the branches, and has
since sent us a very satisfactorv report of the Bank’s business and staff in the Dominion. He is at present
visiting Queensland. AVe consider that such visits are of great advantage to everyone concerned. I now
beg to move the following resolution: “That the directors’ report and statement of accounts, as submitted,
bfi a< Mr. te W. O. Gilchrist seconded the motion, which was then put and carried unanimously.
“AUSTRALIANS YET.”
By
GRANT HERVEY
■ * 1
Verses of Vim for Fuil-sized
Men and Reai Australian
Women!
“Grant Hervey, the
ardent Republican leader
and most characteristic
of Australian poets, voices
the aspirations of a
strenuous democrat in a
way that would have de-
lighted the heart of old
Walt Whitman.” —London
Book Monthly.
Cet These Ballads of a
Big Australian!
Autographed, with National Platform and
Literature of the Young-Australia Party, 4/0
post free, U.S.A. $1.25. From
THK YOUNG-AUSTRALIA BOOK STORE,
Box 81 P. 0., Casterton, Victor a. Australia
We are the Only Manufacturers of
Scientific Glassware in Australia.-*
We make Scientific Instruments for
every class of Trade, Industry or Pro-
fession in which they are used—
Medical, Chemical, Dairying, Agricul-
tural, Brewing, Meat Works, Bakers,
Vignerons, etc.
We repair every class of instrument,
too. If you want instruments for any
special purpose, write us ibout it.
Our Booklet is Free; shall we send
you a copy?
WILSON NAFIS 8 CO. LTD.,
Wharf Street, Brisbane, Q.
THE EDISON
STORAGE BATTERK
THE GREATEST INVENTION OF THE RIND.
SOME POINTS IN ITS FAVOR.
One-half the weight or double the power for the
same weight.
A dead short circuit of a cell will not injure it.
Three-year guarantee for truck and waggon batteries.
No lead, no acid —consequently no acid fumes or
corrosion of steel. . .. ',
An actual increase of capacity in daily use, due to
gradual improvement in the active material.
Overcharging does no injury.
Complete discharging does no injury.
Can stand indefinitely charged or discharged without
injury.
Write us stating purpose you need Storage Batteries
for, and we will give all details.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale only),
Dept. 8., 364-372 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Tt\ls MEMCINE CHEST
SHOULD E>£ Itl
your home.
For the Bush
Home, where the medical
man may be miles away.
Medicine Chest is often « h « •"****
..f saving life. It certainly does away
with calling in a doctor for minor *» n ’‘ | l J , * rd * ary
pack a chest containing a remedy legally
illnesses and accidents of «
qualified chemist aMordlng[to th d RHMEDIES .
,ending *»»'*% J£ E *£**£.£ and Bruises;
l.iniments and Washes or f, jnes 4 |>„wder»
Ointments (or external application • masters,
lor interna. this
WTA? “S s
‘Tni' ,: i ".ny PP X» «* Commonwealth M
Carriage
Paid
Free Offer. —" The Home Medical
hook " sent Post Free to any
address. Write Ur it. -
THE- yc—
mi MEbICINE. SUPPLY
F.V\if\T 50rt MftHhc.E.R
4SO QuELM ST.
“I never
scratch.”
A turn of the head to
the left controls the flow
of ink, fast or slow,
according to your hand-
writing. A turn to the
right shuts off the ink,
and the Onoto becomes
a sealed tube, safe to
carry at any angle
And, above all,/ the
Onoto fills itself —in-
stantly—from any ink
supply. Nothing could
be less trouble than the
Onoto —the one really
satisfactory self-filling y oll
fountain pen. Make it your pen to day.
can always pick a nib to suit your hand*
Miss Simplicity'
the pen —never scratches
Price, 12/- and upwards, of all Oll
and Stores. Booklet about the
application to 1 HOS. I>E I-A Australasian
!75, Bunhill Row, London, w £ , A onOH ursT,
Representatives, Norman Kakeß «
5 o York Street, Sydney.
Ask lor Onoto Ink Best lor all


Why You Want
ABBEY SHOES
One reason why there is so much
ordinary footwear sold is that so
many men are willing to take it.
Abbey Shoes are made to give the
best possible service. You want
that.
The boot we illustrate is a Tan
Willow Calf Bal., 22/6, 25/- and
27/6.
Also, in Box Calf, 21/-, 25/-
In Glace Kid, 22/6, 25/- and
27/6.
In half sizes and quarter fittings.
Postage extra.
Write for a Catalog.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
m
Be Ever Youthful
The greatest
enemy to a
youthful
appearance
is
Grey Hair.
This can be
overcome by
using
MARIE Permanent
HAIR STA I N
( Registered)
The latest and best scientific discovery for
restoring grey or faded hair to its natural
color. Guaranteed not to washj wear or
rub off. Is not affected by sea air or surf-
ing ; proof against humid or damp atmos-
pheres. Is not greasy; never varies in
shade or goes patchy ;is non-injurious; leaves hair soft,
silky and brilliant; aids growth, and is permanent.
PRICE Postage 6d. extra. Sold in four shades:
Light Brown, Medium Brown, Dark Brown and Black.
Free Test given to all who call at my Salon. Money
returned if hair not permanently stained.
Prepared and Sold only by
MARIE VAN BRAKKEL, Ladies’ Hair Special^
Only Address: 46 CASTLEREACH STREET, SYDNEY
Register all Letters. (Opposite Hotel Australia).
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE.
Made in England. Perfectly
harmless, indetectable,
and guaranteed free
from Nitrate of
Silver and Lead
Salts.
IN VARIOUS
SHADES Raven
Black, Black,
Brown, Light or
Golden Brown,
Blonde, Chestnut
and Auburn
Price 3/6, ported 3/11.
Directions with every
bottle.
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 The Block Arcade, Collins St., Melbourne
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant-
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Btc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, VV.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIO.
68i PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
•nib
R
m\
10
2
9
8
BIG BEN
7
5
6
-a
Big Ben is always on the job
BIG BEN is on the
job every minute of
the day; he rings on
time —he runs on time —
he stays on time.
He has a great big dial
you can easily read in the
dim morning light a
cheerful deep-toned voice
that wakes yon on your
sleepiest mornings —large
strong winding keys that
are a pleasure to wind —
and selective alarm calls
that ring just when you
wajit and either way you
want, steadily for 5 min-
utes, intermittently for 10.
Big Ben is made in La Salle,
Illinois, U.S.A., by Westclox.
His price is 12/6, postage l/-
extra. If you cannot find him
in your town, send a money
order to the makers’ Australian
office, Westclox, 63 Pitt St.,
Sydney. They will have one
mailed to you at once by the
nearest jeweller.
ASK
LAMPS
DRAWN TUNGSTEN WIRE
SAVE 15'- IN THE POUND
NO LAMPS TAKE LESS CURRENT
Cockaigne : This has been one of the worst
Bonbon theatrical seasons ever known. Over 50
failures at the West End have to be recorded. The
champion slump was llawtre.y’s, with “The Perfect
r . e > h y Houghton, author of the successful
Handle Wakes.’’ It ran only four nights. Yet
managers had been rushing for Houghton as they
! *°f, Maugham. Oid play-revivals have taken
better than novelties; the taste is more for incident
than character. Ten of the 30 West End theatres
were closed in July, at the top of the season. The
observations of the managers arc interesting. Gran-
ville Barker demands Government or Municipal sub-
sid\. A ext somebody will demand the subsidising
ot cook-shops, which are equally imuortant. Man-
ageress Gertrude Kingston complains that the Eng-
lish are not theatregoers, like French or Germans.
Cyril Maude blames the playwrights. But his judg-
lsn 1 alwa y s sound, lie predicted the failure
ot his great success last year, “Bunty Pulls the
Strings, which ran 500 nights. True, other man-
agers had still worse judgment, for nearlv a dozen
refused that pray altogether. It is significant
that the music-halls are always full. But, then,
they charge 2s. 6d. to ss. for stalls, while the
theatres demand from 7s. '6d. to 10s. 6d. and pro-
vide infinitely less comfort.
The new Tivoli in Adelaide will collar the old
name ot the little King William-street house and
' own to the central but hitherto unfashion-
able Grote street, close to Victoria Square; and
manager Marcus will move over for the opening on
September 6. The Brennan-Fuller circuit has ob-
tained the reversion of the old house. The new one
is easily the largest theatre in Adelaide, and will
take ballet or spectacular shows that are cramped
anywhere else.
‘‘Screen”: Mayor Hennessy, Ex-Mayor Weedon,
p'ii ' dudgeon and other sizeable men are directors
of the newly-formed Melbourne Daylight Pictures Co.
the prospectus has the alluring statement that the
Combine’s “Quo Vadis” raked in a profit of £20,000.
Of course the Daylight Film is to fetch in much
more. The screen is transparent, and on to it
lantern slides or moving pictures are projected
through darkness. No matter what light thev are
shown in, they appear with the greatest brilliancy.
Combined with this is the “Optical Stage.” The
audience cannot see the screen, so Film figures can
be mixed up with living people. It has all been
done successfully in Europe, and experimental per-
formances in Melbourne have given good results.
Harry Lauder has been telling the interviewers
on the other side that when he returns from his
Australian tour he means to go into management
and “have a West End theatre of his own.” He is
going to produce Scoti-h comedies and play the
principal parts in t them himself. And bang will go
at least saxpence of Henry’s hard-sung sayings^
“Abjoneselem”: When will the critics get sense
and cease to liken GenSe to a sunbeam kissing rose-
leaves, a snowflake flirting with space, or thistle-
down wafted in the breeze? Being a coarse per-on
who is habitually inflicted with milk bills, butchers’
accounts and gas collectors, I maintain tint Genge
really dorsn’t, resemble a sunbeam kissing a flower,
or a cabbage, or even a stick of rhubarb. Nor is
she any more like a snowflake in space than I am
like the Archangel Gabriel when I step on a tack
on the way to my hath. In London similar similes
were applied to Lydia Kyasht, whom I saw with the
high-marking Volinin in “The Dance of First Love.”
Kyasht impressed me as a very beautiful ind dainty
young girl, and Volinin as a handsome young buck,
but I am willing to take my oath —nay, more, bet
a quid—that had T gone through precisely similar
gyrations with my best girl, in the presence of her
crudely unsympathetic dog of a father, he would not
have interpreted them to mean that we were im-
paled by the arrows of Love. Not he. He would
merely have deduced from the performance that here
was vet another valid reason for chasing me off the
premises for life.
Hugh Mclntosh is extending his sphere in Mel-
bourne, having acquired land for a songandance
tabernacle in the shopular suburb of Prahran. It is
intended that the programme at the P’ran theatre
shall be the same as at the Opera House. Vaude-
villains will be booked for two turns a night, and
will journey from city to suburb per motor.
“Dumper”: Longford, producer of “Australia
Calls,” has scored a success with his latest, “Pom-
my Arrives in Australia”—the first of a
series of “pommy” pictures, for which the “Abo-
riginalities” column should yield a rich harvest.
This film breaks new ground, being the first long
comedy attempted locally. Interesting to watch real
“pommies” who roll up to see themselves as others
see them. They take the fun good-naturedly. Long-
ford is an actor, gifted with imagination and a
strong personality. His is probably the largest
“producing” experience in Australia. Peculiarly
enough, he rarely sees moving pictures other than
his own. He is associated now with the Fraser
Film Co., which has Franklyn Barrett as cinemato-
grapher.
“Petramos”: Once a year one of the Bostock
family revives the disappearing circus at the
“World’s Fair” in London. Last Christmas I saw
round the ring ancient Sangers, Wombwells, Hol-
wavs, Fossetts and Astle.ys sniffing the sawdust with
relish. One of the ringmasters was a grandfatherly
Ohmy, famed in circus circles for his presence of
mind in emergencies. Whilst appearing aS Dick
Turpin once lie was escaping from the sheriff’s
officers, when his horse baulked at a hurdle, stop-
ping dead. Ohmy peered behind him. “Ah, well,”
he said, “the sheriff’s a long way behind. I’ll read
vou next week’s programme.” Descendants of
Astley are still in the business; but the present head
of the house has put his animals on the stage. I
saw him in a music-hall at Dover introducing a
trick pony on a bicycle.
Isn’t it time that actors and actresses formed a
union to object to the employment of animals on the
stage ? Talk about cheap Chinese labor! At one
Sydney theatre “educated” dogs are competing with
vaudeville artists. At another, men and women are
kept off the boards to make way for erudite sea-
lions, or some such amphibians. Somewhere else are,
or were recently, a crowd of birds. Truly there are
some great plays that were obviously intended for
animals. “Romeo and Juliet,” for instance, was
obviously written to be acted by cats; and “Chanti-
cleer” was designed to be acted by anything from
a loaf of bread to a barndoor rooster. But to make
these plays intelligible, they could be acted only by
men and women disguised as birds, animals and in-
animate objects. These dogs, sea-lions and birds ard
not in that category. They are not human, and to
make room for them on the stage, humans have to
be kept off it.
“Ike Pagliacei”; Houdini, the man who invented
the best methods of getting out of handcuffs, and
author of “How to Break out of Gaol” (since pro-
hibited), is the finest sleight-of-hand man of to-day,
though the general public knows naught of his
conjuring. At the Vaudeville Club in London, in
the presence of several of the cleverest professional
legerdemaniacs, Houdini asked me to push five
needles into his mouth at short intervals. He pre-
tended to swallow them, taking fully a minute to
digest each. A piece of cotton, knotted so that it
could be identified, was then placed in his mouth
by a conjurer whose character resembled Mrs.
Caesar’s. Five minutes later the thread reappeared
with the needles dangling on it. Houdini’s first
professional billet was as a freak in an American
museum. In those days he pushed pins through his
cheek. His first handcuff job got him 255. weekly.
At Holborn Empire (London) he was lately drawing
£2OO a week. I recollect Houdini’s wife calling
on a London agent and begging him to come round
home and remonstrate with her husband, who for
18 hours had been trying to get out of a straight-
jacket. She was afraid he would burst into the next
world. The agent rushed round to release Houdini,
who, however, threatened him with sudden annihila-
tion. “I’ve been here 18 hours,” he said, “and
another half-hour will see me out.” And it did.
“8.J.”: Charles Garvice has dfhmatised one ol
his stories, “Just a Girl,” the scene of which is
laid partly in this country. The play is to be put
on here shortly by Bert Bailey, who (may the
Lord forgive him!) was the malefactor who sug-
gested to Garbage that he should turn his talents
to dramatic authorship.


Shipping.
Prn and Om BRANCH SERVICE.
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Via MELBOURNE and ADELAIDE.
Wireless installed.
PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION AMIDSHIPS.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
LONDON £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l7 17s.
Tickets for return, via Suez (second-class), P. and
O. Mail, from £49 19s. to £53 11s.
CILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne: John Sanderson & Co., 11l William St.
Adelaide and Fremantle Agents: Geo. Wills & Co.,
Limited.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
ORAMA ..Triple-Screw.. 13,000 Regd. Tons.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamers. Cahines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE. SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Lta.,
12 Martin Pi.acb. Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
1/-
Minimum
Deposit.
3&M
Have YOU a
Bank Account ?
£5OO
Interest
Limit.
If not, open one by Depositing
at least ONE SHILLING in the
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
THE STATE SAVINGS INSTITUTION.
116 BRANCHES and OVER 500
AGENCIES IN THE STATE.
3*
Per
Cent.
Interest on
First £3OO
No Connection with
the Post Office.
J. H. DAVIES,
Seer* tary.
11 Moore Street,
SYDNEY.
3
Per
Cent.
On Excess
to £5OO
Bank of ||orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD Oi'FICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sidney Office: Corner of (ieorge mid Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM KORSYjTIT, Esq. (Burns, l’liilp A: Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Mabager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK, LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
THE,
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1.198.534
PAID-UP (30th June. 1913) .. £1,195,398
RESERVE FUND . . . . £25,000
HHAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Svdney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS—Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man; George J. Slv, Esq., LL.D.; Ciias. 11.
Mri.ES, Esq.; Mark Sheldon, Esq.; Arthur S.
Barton, Esq; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30. 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO , 0 0
Capital Paid Up • • ■ • . . 413,418 0 0
Reserve.. • • ■ • ■ • • • 142,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091.669’' 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
• All new business since 18!<S specially protected.
Directors —Jas. Munro, Esq. (Chairman) ; John
Cameron, Esq.; F. Lord, Esq. ; Geo. Edw. Bunning,
Esq • Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.
General Manaorr— W. V. RALSTON.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON FIXED DEPOSITS.—
12 months, at the rate of 4 per cent, per annum: 2
rears and over, at the rate of 4J per cent, nor annum.
HEAD OFFICE - - - - BRISBANE.
Branches— London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland. Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Colonial Mutual [ife
assurance society limited
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
At nuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £6,000,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith. K.C., M.P.
1 A, ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary,
Shipping;.
XT ORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD, N.D.L.
-El IMPERIAL MAIL STEAMERS,
TO COLOMBO, SUEZ, NAPLES, GENOA, ALGIERS,
SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, AND BREMEN.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Installation.
All Steamers fitted with Laundry.
FARES TO LONDON: 1., £7l/10/-; 11., £4O;
111., £l5 to £l9, RETURN; 1., £lO7/5/-: 11.,
£6O; 111., £3O/12/- to £37/16/
LOIIMANN and CO., General Agents, 7 Bridge-st.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE.
The largest and Finest Steamers trading between
Australia and San Francisco.
Around World and Around Pacific Tours.
Steamers stop 24 Hours at Papeete—the
“ Pearl of the Pacific.”
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
Twin and Triple-screw Steamers.
*CERA MIC, 18,500 tons, about SEPT. 24
Largest vessel trading to Australia.
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, about OCT. 22.
MEDIC, 12,000 tons, about NOV. 12.
Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
l‘'ares —Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0t0£24 S <>
London .. .. 19 0 oto 30 0 C
New York. Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, etc., from 25 0 0
PAMPHLETS AND ALL INFORMATION ON APPLI-
CATION. Luggage Received Only on Day of Sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
Australian Steamships Line
Fast Passenger Steamers
Sail as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY A
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
♦CAIRNS
(♦Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports). J
NORTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Sept. 6
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Sept. 10
Leaves Sydney Sept. 13
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Sept. 17.
Leaves Sydney Sept. 20.
For
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and W.A. ports).
SOUTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Sept. 6
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Sept. 13.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents.
Offices at all Forts.
ISLAND TOURS!
During THE WINTER SEASON.
To PAPUA
{Via the Queensland Coast),
A CHARMING COMBINATION
TOUR.
S.S. “ MATUNCA,”
SEPTEMBER 22.
Brisbane, Cairns. Port
Moresby, Yule Is and,
Samarai, Woodlark Island.
£20.
THE SOLOMONS !
For REST and HEALTH.
S.S. “MINDINI ” —
SEPTEMBER 6.
Brisbane. Tulagi, Aola,
Gizo, Falsi, Guadalcanar,
ntc., etc.
£20.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., Head Office, Sydney.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability -
<all
DIKELiOKS:
£3,253,540
• £2,250,000
• £3,253,540
£8,757,080
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, Kt., M.L.C.,
President.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Ksq.
Kichard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Norinand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Eoshery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
AUDITORS: Shepheard Edgecliff Laidley, Esq.. Alfred George Milson, Esq.
Head Office— George St.. Sydney. London office-29 Threadneedle St., E.C.
335 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London, Agents
and Correspondents throughout the World.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on. Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE
WORLD. J. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-Up ..£1,750,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . . . 1,630,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 1,750,000 0 0
£5,130,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
Guouuis J. Cohen, Esq .. .. Chairman,
lion. H. 15. Kateh, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. 11. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
N'okman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: E. S. CAPE, Esq. and F. W. Hixson, Esq-
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
11. 11. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: IB Bircliin - Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. H. S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the Staf” cf New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Bank of |)eui Z ea ' an| l.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £1,000,000
Preference Shares .. .... 500,000
Ordinarv Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
up " 500.000
Uncalled Capital .. . . .. 500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,418,117
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New X.eu
land, Fiji. Great llri
min and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital l’aid-up .. .. .. ..£538.307
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 159,054
Reserve Lund (invested in Govt. Stock).. 76,500
£773.861
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. ■——— i
Gen. Man.. Edwd. !>. Dav. Asst. Man. :K. 11. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCH ICS IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
mME Best Stories written by Australian
X Writers appear in The Lone Hand
Magazine. Price. Gd. monthly.
“LINSEED COMPOUND,” for Coughs and
Colds. Loosens phlegm, allays irritation.
A Whole Week Saved
SYDNEY to SAN FRANCISCO by the
Oceanic Steamship Company
10,000 tons, Twin Screw Steamers. 17 knots,
Classed 100 A 1 at British Lloyds.
CABINS DE LUXE with BATHS.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY—
rhe ‘ hrol, Sh trip to England can be accomplished
in 29 Days via Samoa, Honolulu, San Francisco.
RETURN TICKETS GOOD BY P. &0., ORIENT LINE
N.D.L., N.Z .8. Co. and S. S. & A. Co.
Tel. 2282 City. Apply— 44 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE. BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S HAR-
BOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE’
thence to Tweed Heads— steamer to Murwillumbah!
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Bs. 6d. ; second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:
BOOKING OFFICE, 2GI GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
*- *
w Points
£* Snventorj
CAN 1 OBT4IN A PATENT?
The quickest way to ascertain
this, WITHOUT EXPENSE, is
to write to me describing your invention, enclosing
a small sketch where necessary. Nicety of
is not essential; all that is necessary at first is to
give me YOUR IDEA.
I will at once inform you whether the idea is
patent-able, and, if so, give the necessary instructions
for further procedure.
Persons desirous of obtaining really reliable advice
or information regarding Patent matters are cordi-
ally invited to consult me personally or by letter. In
all cases a careful consideration of their plans, an
honest opinion, and a prompt reply may be
expected.
A. «J. CALLINAN, Patent Attorney,
Citizens’ Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO
(LIMITED). *
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian
Victorian and Queensland! Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
Anri GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhippinff at Fremantle
to all North Western Port*.
T.S.S. VV andilla (8000 tons)
fitted \Vireles9 Tele-
graphy, Saturday, Sep.'
tember 27 and October
BRISBANE
MACKAV
TOWNSVILLE
And Porta NorHi go Oairns.
T.S.S. Warilda (Boootons)
fitted Wireless Tele-’
graphy, September 20.
Saloon Passage Tickets ate interchangeable after
the firs; Port of call with other inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can ha
ascertained on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL Sc CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
Via FIJI AND HONOLULU.
CANADIAN - AUSTRALASIAN R M
LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
AROUND THE WORLD TOURS.
FIRST AND SECOND CLASS.
SAILINGS :
*Ne\v triple-screw steamer, fitted with cab’nsde-
luxe en suite, Nursery, Laundry, Electric Lifts, etc.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION ST HAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Federal & Shire Lines
Steam to Durban and London.
T.S.S. SUFFOLK .
11,000 TONS. CAPTAIN DAVIES.
BRISBANE .. .. SEPTEMBER 10, 1913
SYDNEY . . SEPTEMBER 16, 1913
MELBOURNE .. .. SEPTEMBER/20, 1913
ADELAIDE . . . . SEPTEMBER 24, 1913
FARES TO
Durban; Saloon, £22. Third, £ll/11/-to £l5/15/-
London: Saloon, £4O. Third, £l3/13/- to £l7/17/-
Saloon Fares from Brisbane, £2 extra.
Steerage, £l/1/- extra.
The Saloon accommodation consists of two berth
cabins on the Upper Deck, situated amidships. Well-
lighted and ventilated Cabins, and spacious Decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provi-
sions from cool chambers throughout the voyage.
Electric Light throughout.
Return and Round Trip Tickets issued via Cape
and (or) Suez route. Prepaid passages arranged.
FITTED WITH WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY.
Successful vaccination certificates and signed sur-
veillance forms must be presented before passengers
from Brisbane or Sydney can be booked.
For illustrated pamphlets and full information,
applv—
BIRT & CO., LTD., Svdney.
BIRT & CO., LTD., Brisbane.
McILWRAITH. McEACHARN & CO. PTY., LTD.,
Melbourne and Newcastle.
ELDER SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
H. JONES & CO., LTD., Hobart.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“ Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“lllimaroa.’’ “Wimmera.”
“Riverina,” “Victoria
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
A.U.S.N.Co.Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
♦T.S.S. “ INDARRA ” ...10,000 tons
♦T.S.S. “ KANOWNA”... 7000 tons
♦T.S.S. “ KYARRA” 7000 tons
♦T.S.S. “ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA ’ ... 6500 tons
S.S. “ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
♦Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Winter Tours to Cairns and Fiji are highly recora
mended for the salubrious climate and beaut
scenery, and Tourists will .find that the A.U- • •
Coy.’s steamers possess all up-to-date arrangem
for convenience and comfort, making travel •
easy and pleasant. After first port of call * ir . s “ ~
Second Saloon Tickets are interchangeable wit
Interstate Companies, also with the Union ».»• ?•
steamers in the Fiji Trade; particulars on a PP .
tion. For dates of sailing 6ee Daily Papers,
for a Printed Pamphlet. _
BURNS, PHILP g COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.


HotelH, &c.
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 13./- per day.
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It is
the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
#*
ST
Gent.’s
Aertex
Cellular
Combinations.
SINGLET and
TRUNK DRAWERS.
White 6, 6
Post
Free
The most comfort-
able form of
Underwear, and,
being of Aertex
Cellular, the
most healthy.
Made also in other
plain and fancy
Cottons, Lisle
Threads, Woollens,
and Silks.
When ordering
state height and
size of chest.
A<, ffiSw~ DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
76 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
(Next door to Farmer’s.)
Q9OOOOC QSO
FOR A FAIR DINKUM QO
.. . TRY THE ...
MEZON
Accordeons
The World
Best
63/
35
42
GO
Sole
Agent
o
N
Bourkest
Melb
iii) mu
Irv
1)111*
i"»s:
IkILLCQCKROACHESI
PROCURABLE FROM:
George Gough & Son, Ltd., Bris-
bane.
H. H. Groth & Co., Sydney.
London Pharmacy, Ipswich, Q’land
G. R. Smith, Townsville, ~
Lomas & Co., Warwick, ~
Jack & Co., Dalby, »»
Bryant & McLean, Roma, „
E. S. Hale, Bundaberg, ~
Newbery & Shambler, Gympie, ~
Peak & Co., Toowoomba, ~
Williams, Ltd., Rockhampton, ~
Lamberts, Ltd., Mackay, »
Alex. Campbell & Sons,
Maryborough, ,»
And all reliable Storekeepers
throughout Australasia.
“LINSEED COMPOUND,” for Cougna aud
Ooldi. Of proven efficacy for cheat complaint!.
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFIOE
Bank of HustraKa
BYDNEY
Branches are open for the transection of GENERAL BANKINQ BUSINESS ai
New South Wales Sydney. Federal Capital —Canberra. Vlct'-ria — Melbourne.
QJoansUnd —Brisbane, Rockhampton, and Townsville. South Australia. — Adelaide.
Western Australia— Perth Tasmania-llobart. And at 36-38 ME W BROAD STREET, London.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign bills negotiated and
collected Letters of credit ami circular notes issued to any part of the world. Hit's irrgotiated ar
forwarded for collection. Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within
the Commonwealth, United Kingdom and abroad Interest paid on fixed deposits.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT
Branches are open at 3 Moore Street, Sydney; 317 Collins Street, Melbourne; Queen Street,
Brisbane ; Royal Exchange, 96 King William Street, Adelaide; St. George’s Tetrace,
Perth; Elizabeth Street, Hobart; and Canberra (Federal Capital); and 1900 Agencies
at Post Offices which issue Money Orders in the Australian Commonwealth and
Papua, from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m daily, and noon Saturday.
All Branch Offices are open for deposits and withdrawals on Friday 7 to 9 p.m.
Withdrawals on demand may be effected at am office within the Commonwealth.
■ . .1 "iimum Deposi . 3% Rate of Interest on all Deposits up to £3OO
JAMES KELL, Dkputt Uovmrrur. August, 1913 DKMaON MILLER, Governor
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queensland
otters a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the prospective
settler and to the honest worker.
Fur Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office : 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
Will Andrade « BOOKS
Any of these Catalogues
i'ree for the asking :
(1) Plays, Recitations.
(2) Magical Goods.
(3) Useful Books.
(4) Building Books.
(5) Mechanical and
Engineering Books.
(6) Medical Books.
(7) Socialistic Books.
(8) Sixpenny Novels.
(9) Australian Books.
(10) Athletic Books.
(11) Wigs, Beards,
Grease Paints,
Masks.
Easy Method of Learning French, German,
Italian, Spanibh, 1/7 each language; Speeches and
Toasts for all occasions, 1/1 ; Every Man His Own
Carpenter, 1/1 ; Bernard Macfadden's Building of
Vital Power, 5/4 ; Macfadden’s Superb Virility of
Manhood, 5/4; Macfadden’s Sweethearts for Lives,
5/4 ; Amateur Conjuring Book, easy tricks, illus-
trated, 7d. ; Boxing and Self-Defence, 1,2; Book
of Love Letters, 1/- ; Hypnotism, Mesmer sm and
Cla rvoyance, 1/1 ; Horse Doctor, 1/1 ; What Young
People Should KnowV Confidential Talks, 1/1 ; Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book of Nature, the only
genuine and complete edition, 3/6 ; New 1912
edition, enlarged, 32 extra plates, illustrating
female anatomy, handsome cloth cover, 5/-; N"W
Tricks wth Cards, 1/- ; House Painting, Paper-
hanging, Whitewashing, etc., 1/4 ; 3000 Priceless
Secrets, 1/8; Irish Jokes and Witty Sayings, 9d. ;
Complete Letter Writer for Ladies and Gentlemen,
1/-; Dancing Without an Instructor, 1/-; Lovers’*
Guide to Courtship and Marriage, 1/-
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
MASKS
Fur Fancy I>>es9
Halls, Skating
Carnivals, Pro-
cessions, etc.
Large Variety.
Write f r List.
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
2] FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne.
Trowels
For the
Laying of
Foundation
Stones ...
Best Electroplate, 12in. long,
Ebony Handle 18/6
Less 20% 3/6
Net
15/.
WE MAKE IN SYDNEY TO SPECIAL DESIGNS.
We make them with an exquisite finish, in Solid Silver, in Gold, in Electroplate.
We always have a large number in Stock.
Then we make Solid Silver and Solid Gold Spirit Levels.
Presentation Keys, also, in a large variety of designs.
We are always pleased to submit special drawings to suit an event.
Plain Figures
Cask.
Fairfax & Roberts, Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney, 23 &25 Hunter Street.
Time spent using
Calvert's
ifSolh R>wder
is time spent well .
Local Chemists
and Stores sell it.
Makers :
F. C. Calvert & Co.,
Manchester, Eng.
For the cleaner the teeth
are kept, of course the
longer they will last and
the better they will look.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
agents roR
Murray s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dogs Head (Guinness's) Stout. Club Rum.
of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
Manufacturers
ARE YOU
DEAF?
If you are (leaf, or going deaf, you will be glad to
hear of a simple and scientific device which restores
hearing, no matter how old you are. No mystery or
secrecy about it; we describe it fully, and explain
just how it acts. You use spectacles as sight magni-
fiers, and in the same way you use this sound magni-
fier to hear better. Unlike spectacles, the Wilson
Common-sense Ear-Drums are invisible and comfort-
able. No one can tell you are wearing them, they
rest the ear nerves by taking the strain .off them -the
strain of trying to hear indistinct sounds. What a
relief to have done with that tiring strain. ,
made of the softest Para rubber they cannot be felt,
even when the head rests on a pillow. For the same
reason, a blow on the side of the head will not hurt
the ear. They protect the tender inner parts of the
ear, that are so sensitive, from cold winds, dust, sud-
den and piercing sounds. ,
So that you may clearly understand how the Sound
Magnifiers restore hearing, we give an illustration of
one as it lies in the ear. You will notice that the
Sound Magnifier is shaped like a trumpet, and so con-
veys even the faintest sounds right to the natural drum.
Being of the softest rubber, it cannot hurt the ear
It fits the orifice of the ear
with precision and comfort.
The division that runs
across the mouth is to al-
low the removal and inser-
tion of the Ear-Drum, and
to brace it.
The shape of the W'ilson
Ear-Dium has oeen chosen
after years of experience as
the best adapt-
ed to carry the
faintest sound.
Of course, if
you have lost
the li e a r i ng-
nerve co m-
pletelv, or were
born deaf, we
cannot pretend
to cure you. Only a miracle could
do that, in spite of some of the
absurd claims made today. But
of you can hear the faintest sound,
do not despair. You will never
regret trying the Wilson Ear-
Drums. We have letters to show
3°u from deaf people in Australia
and New Zealand, who have been
cured, and you can be cured, too. You may wear
the Ear-Drums day and night, and take them out
whenever you wish. Children can wear them (we
have special sizes for children from six to twelve!.
Even a child can insert and remove them without the
least danger.
Ihe price is £1 (the fee for a doctor’s single
visit). This includes a pair of drums (they are only
sold in pairs), a fine nickel remover, and also an
inserter. After the first pair is bought vou mav pur-
chase a single drum at any time for ‘ Bs., but the
pair you get at first will last quite two years. Do
not ask for a trial pair. We do not send them out
on trial, and so they are never secondhand. Use the
Order form below, and the Outfit will be sent you
at once, with the fullest instructions. Don’t delay,
but have the comfort of good hearing as soon as you
can.
ORDER FORM.
STAR NOVELTY CO..
103 Arlington Chambers.
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please send me an Outfit containing a pair of
Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums, an Inserter and a
Remover, for which I enclose One Pound.
Name
Address
NOTE. —Send Money Order or Postal Note. If a
Bank Note or Sovereign is sent, you must register it.
<?<}
9 9
The “Dudley” Accordeon
» -
a
(3) DUDLEY ACCORDEON,
Woo
104 in. x sJin., Black polished Case, 3 turned
den Stops, 3 rows Bell Metal Reeds, 10-
fold, triple divided Bellows, 10 Bone lie'
Nickel Basses, Leather handles. Post free, 25/-
(6) DUDLEY ACCORDEON,
10 Jin. x 6in., Black polished Moulding Case,
with Walnut panels, 4 turned Wooden Stops;
4 rows Bell Metal Reeds; Bellows. 12-fold
triple divided; 10 Keys, Nickel : 2 Basses,
Nickel; Leather handles, Grand Organ tone.
Post free, 35/-; with English Steel Reeds,
41/-
THE
“Rozella” Mouth Organ
6 •
Q.-Q Q 0.0 0 0 0-0
THE MOST PERFECT MOUTH ORGAN IN
EXISTENCE.
Reeds of Bell Metal. Corners strongly Nickel-
plated. Prices, 1/-, 1/3, 1/6. Concert
Model, 2/- Professional Model, 3/-.
SEND TO-DAY.
Post Free to any address in the Commonwealth.
A. P. SYKES,
272 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘ARABIS’
Egyptian Henna before all Others; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Sta ! n on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive you. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardley on genuine. Price 1/-and 2 G.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.


KIDNEY DISEASE
and all allied complaints have their prompt anH
effectual remedy in Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pil™ P which 1
act in a wonderfully speedy manner. Give them a
where * PnC6 ’ ls ' Gd ' and 2s ‘ 6d - ‘Obtainable
- ■ '■
Missing: Friends.
every-
A Federal Detective Agency.
J. CANTLON
(late Victorian Detective Police) under-
takes Commercial, Confidential, Next of Ivin
Missing Friend and Matrimonial Enquiries’
bearches. Surveillance.
49 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
TIIAI I ( EARLES.—Y\ ill Charles Tapp.
last heard of at Benalla, Victoria, but
formerly of Auckland, New Zealand Army
Pensioner, the husband of REBECC4
TAPP, or any of their children—or anv
person knowing their whereabouts or able
to give any information concerning them
please communicate immediately with THE
EXECUTORS &.AGENCY
CO., LTD., of 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
READY, CHRISTINA, daughter of late JAMES and
CHRISTINA BRADY, of Dublin, last heard of
January 8, 1877, at Logan Village Hotel, Queensland ;
afterwards understood to be at Queen’s Hotel, Towns-
ville, Queensland, will hear something to her advan-
tage by communicating with her sister,
MRS. ANNE COEN (nee Brady),
Tenterfield, N.S.W.
Any friend of hers please communicate.
McCORKKLL. —HARRY G., last heard from Innis-
fail, N. Queensland. Anybody knowing where-
abouts write R. McCORKELL, Age “Office, Melbourne.
Mother dead.
Mai tin s I ills are sold bv all Chemists and
k tores in Australasia. Ladies recommend
them. Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
810-SHOWMEN!
"THERE’S only one BEST Biograph We can nrovp
1 it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE.’’ Send for Cat!
Svdrfey S ° 6 asents : Jerdan ’ s - Ltd., 393 George Street,
SUFFERED ACUTELY.
“For about three months I suffered acutely from
liver trouble,” writes Mr. W. H. Capon, Turilville,
Tunll, N.S.W. “Mr. T. McDermott, of McDermott
f Son ’ recommended me to try Chamberlain’s Tab-
lets which I did. They were the only' medicine that
could relieve me—in fact, they completely cured me
very quickly.”
Srrvys,
yy/'yi.
U U ifp
/
jo mo 'syrxo rwfi
<v» jry-g
oy yy)
Jp.r-fj
9/,
r>y? yfc>A
i”kf»/T>D *yriS
rv»A
yj
IN BANANA LAND
Protector Howard is forming a settlement
for half-castes near Gayndah, with intent to.
employ them in clearing prickly-pear. Ac-
cording to Howard, the Queensland hybrid
is active and intelligent, and only wants
guidance. Perhaps; but most of all he
wants prevention.
Queensland Legislative Council the other
day put through a Cremation Bill. With a
singular sense of fitness, Denham allows his
Leg. Council to deal with all matters per-
taining to death, burial, cemeteries, tombs,
etc., before they come to the Assembly.
1 A Hughenden paper tells how old Martin
Gorman was rescued the other day after
doing a solid week without food or water.
He was on the track, and at last turned
his old mare loose. Feeling too sick to stir,
he made a shade of the saddle-cloth, and
curled himself up to wait for the end. But
the mare refused to leave, although her foal
was paddocked a few miles away; she iust
wandered about till she picked up a rescue
party, which she guided back to the old
battler under the saddle-cloth. Small wonder
Billjim has dropped the bike, by which he
was fascinated a few years ago, and has
mostly got back to the faithful moke. No
bike ever fetched a rescue partv to a perish-
ing bikist.
“Soapsuds” is annoyed
fle “NorheiPs” par. about the lack of. bathrooms
J" Western Queensland (B. 21/8/’l3). He says:
At the place where I stayed in Charleville there
ba f h ;n ,° n readin & th at I decided to take a
run around the town, and inquire for places without
bathrooms. Every lodging-house in the village has
a bathroom, and each hotel has two for men and
one XT?’ Th T* °P ,y place in town without
one is the lock-up. If it was his own choice, it is
not for me to complain.
. Thomas X arker. who died the other dav
in Georgetown (N.Q.), was known bv
miners all over Australia as a desperate
prospector. He arrived in Victoria in 1853
with a bit of knowledge of chemistry. There
was hardly a Victorian rush that did not
see him. lie was at Clunes, Ivorong, Mclvor
Ileasant Creek, Back Creek and Yandoit.
Next he opened a drug store at Wood’s
loint. lie went to Maoriland, and was
familiar at Hokitika. He dropped down in
Queensland, and bobbed up in Fiji, where he
did well, supplying traders and blackbirders
with medicine chests. Thakombau had for
his Premier J. S. Butters, from Melbourne.
Jack Rider, also from Melbourne, was
Hansard reporter. They managed to put
Rider in gaol for some breach of privilege.
Things bubbled, and there was an attempt
at revolution. After Parker had rendered
loyal service to Butters, he thought affairs
were growing too risky, and fled back to
V ictoria, where he settled until gold drew
him to the Etheridge. But the diggings
were poor, and he had to dron back on to
pharmacy again. Such are the men who
have opened Australia—the Legion that
never was lasted.
John May, Labor member for Flinders, is
entitled to some of the thanks of his day and
generation. For years he advocated a
"age of £llO p.a. for public ser-
ants aged 21, but till recently without suc-
cess. This year, however, the Government
has adopted the principle, and as a result
KntJ h^ S 011 of Joy P° ur<3 d on his
DaJd pate by public servants generally. Also,
. e s been stayed with flagons and com-
°™, with apples, and butter has been
handed to him on a lordly dish, and the
beams of Ins house are cedar—or words to
that effect.
A little chapter of industrial history ik
closed by an auctioneer’s announcement that
the Alice River settlement has been sold with
all stock for £3lllO. The Alice River settle-
ment was inaugurated by a section of the
stnkers in the great ’9l dispute to deirion-
t what Labor, unfettered by capitalistic
restrictions, could do. The settlers soon
wearied of the experiment. Some deserted:
some sold out ; and the place finally drifted
into the hands of two or three men as a
Purely private venture, the end of which is
contained in the above-mentioned sale '
notice.
A MATTER OF CARE.
SWRLL (to bagman who has stopped the drag): What, the matter. Is the bridge unsafe?"
BAGMAN : “Oh, the ole bridge is safe enough, but you wants to go very stow anti not mate
no none goin over, as some of me friends is sleeping underneath."
According to the Courier (August 22).
M.L.A. Booker told the Assembly that for
the future he “reserved to himself the right
of speaking and voting absolutely according
to his own convictions.” The Opposition
immediately cried "Hear, hear.” If any
Oppositionist had said the same thing, his
comrades would have denounced him as a
traitor—m strict accordance with the spirit
or I arty Government.
I tan . Bishop Barnes delivered his
Budget speech the other evening, and in the
re-hash of old figures he forgot to mention
one thing- that while the State gained a
whole majestic 2.4 per cent, of population
last year, it lost territory to the prickly-pear
enemy at the rate of a million acres. An-
other fact, passed unnoticed, is that each
year the area under wheat crop gets less.
The bulk of the newcomers axe speculators,
not farmers ; they want to make money, but
they don't want to work. It is this that has
helped to give the pear so much rope. If
man refuses to crop the land, the pear takes
on the contract. Queensland doesn’t know
what agriculture means. It only under-
stands grazing four-footed animals. Half the
vegetables eaten in Brisbane come from the
South, while tens of thousands of acres of
land close to the city remain idle. Nine-
tenths, if not more, of the apples and pears
eaten in the State are Tasmanian, though
blanthorpe can grow fruit of this class
equa! to anything in the world. Thousands
ot tons of wheat are imported each year from
the- South, mainly because the land-owner
would rather grow sheep and prickly pear.
Ihe wrong sort of man has got on to the
land. He wants to see railways built —not
to carry his produce to market, but to in-
crease the value of his holding so that he can
sen it. Barnes ought to have made a few
Hundred remarks about these things. A Bud-
get speech in Queensland with a few such
novelties in it would be preferable to the
old hash about Queensland being destined to
become the richest member of the group
The Reversion.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
One careless hour the Angel at the Gate
Of Eden slept, and Eve, alert, elate,
Stole in and left her Adam at his toil
Li battling with the Earth’s unkindlv soil.
She went again in joyful mood to roam
About the windings of that garden home.
Her husband missed her, sought the
wakened guard
And told how Eve had passed that way un-
barred,
Intending, doubtless, she would spend an
hour
In sweet revisit of her ancient bower ;
1 erchance repenting of her primal sin,
And hopeful that her tears would pardon
win.
At: last they found her, just at eventide,
Asleep and still, reclining on her side ;
Iler hair dishevelled, cheeks a trifle pale.
As one who dreamt on some unhappy tale —*
A ripe, half-eaten apple near her knee,
Beneath the same old sad, Forbidden Tree!
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, August 30, 1913.
My Dear Thargomindaii,—
Governor Macgregor is still going to and
-fro upon the earth (the northern end of
the earth after you leave N. S. Wales and
previous to bumping the butt end of York
Peninsula) in pursuit of vice-regal jobs—
the kind of jobs that feed out of the bottle
and take what’s coming to them lying down.
On Friday he hurled open a new School of
Arts at Murgon, and to-day he swooped
down upon Area B 7 (that’s a military, not
a cattle, brand) and decorated the cadets
with some tom-toms or kettle drums.
Meanwhile the National Council of
Women has been hai'd pushed for three
whole days. In spite of every argument
that Mrs. Kingsbury could produce, not
excepting the somewhat serious one con-
cerning her ill-health, she was re-elected
president. Extra vice-presidents have been
led into the firing line so that she may not
be overburdened in the heat of action, but
Mrs. Kingsbury is not the woman to sit
back and take the credit and lemonade,
while others perspire in the good cause and
faint for encouragement, and hunger in vain
tor a kind word to gnaw. Considering
thp l wH"*' n W ° have been as well if
the National Council had not been so in-
sistent. Mrs. Kingsbury has worked with
5n d vp f «f- eVe 7 u D °T n charit y for the last
ou years, and she deserves a rest. At the
sitting .on Tuesday afternoon there was a
discussion which should be of interest to
all patriotic and humane Australians. Mrs.
Hawthorne read a report from the Chil-
that S wMlp Pl i ?l hfU Cd - QU ,°^ d figures t 0 sh ow
that while diphtheria kills only two chil-
S l of°a Admitt er’
robs the State of 40 out of everv 100 little
Australians that develop the disease. But I
suppose aH the politicians are too busy S
deSts nf r the ! ! tO . St - art State
depots or to legislate in the direction of
murder ? nt ® rp nse when he attempts
murder by food adulteration. Also, the
lazy and wilfully neglectful mother will as
nHlm' eS ’° a r 6 being dragged away from the
neighbors fence and spoken to severely
Iwas ever thus!
Next week the Queensland Women’s
Electoral League will hold its annual con-
erence, and the week after some tons of
Anglican Bishops and other clerical fauna
i cidni ° n ° Ur humpy,
and conduct a very special corroboree. The
Melanesia representative is sailing over in
his own little vessel (the same that lie
scours the South Seas ip for converts) and
will berth her at Garden Reach. ’ d
Lottie Richter, whose silvery voice was
in Ameri ™«»“» “
this State, married manager Davis of the
Thov° P Rubber - Con ]Pany, on Tuesday last.
(J are pursuing the moon in a motor-car.
\ni UP i d ha vf branded the sign of the ring on
Miss Finch, whose father is the relieving
manager of the Bank of New South wl es
lng h ra mTh ° rPe ’
Last Monday Mrs. J. O. Bourne passed
of IrZ dy TT n m ba? t° ber friends i a honor
ot Irene Hobbs, who is to be married
very shortly to a Mr. Spooner. Mrs. W
th* fjnbertson was another hostess in
the week, and on Wednesday after-
i on Mrs - D oyle, wife of the popular
medico, entertained about
pretty house at a ‘ ter
and stock and nasturtiums and'
more daffodils were squandered olets an
roundings, which included f h °“ th e sut
the trees, and a mysterious Lt and under
who distributed prospective a t( ‘»t
the girls and long voyages to all to all
dames. I asked for a sober Lin niari 'ied
man in a constant job, but atm„. "forking
had been rushed, because I 1* W
a tall, fair man (of eo nd ?! reiL
the water. WheS thM o ?*'. C
turns up I’ll be out! "Migrant
Harry Sidle, a well-known BriL
a member of the Amateur F; w e “an.
Association, an enthusiastic s a ;r
and owner of the fine motor-launch“i B »
died unexpectedly last Tuesday“ n
had a bout with his old enemy mil
early on Tuesday morning he sint ai| l
out of this phase of the Great LL
was born in England, but had fe' Hp
of his life in Queensland. " ed most
Mabel Woolcock, a Queensland eirl »•,
a good voice, has just been F
six months’ season in variousT' ( fa
music-halls. She will burst intr, ta lan
the Empire, Brisbane, next week at
help to pay the rent there for a'w •"I! 11
After that she goes on to the Tivoli
and other amusement palaces nf\i
«•«<! "Ability. Eugenie ELffc*
finished, in a vocal sense, at the fL' 1 -®
and the popularity of her contralto
of voice still lingers in the vicinity!
To-night the Undergrads acted R o w.
son s comedy “School,” and a sum,.? '
good show it was. Bevil Molesworth v”*'
Thelander, and a youth named NeiW?" 8
the best actors, and Jimmy Briefs aM® 6
ms notoriety, added salt to' the perfo’nJf'
with local allusions. The ladleTrfß
were not quite so clever as the boys ft
-och one deserved a kiss on the classic b£
1 ~r The clear way she spoke her lines t
!■* Q'»te the best amateur show that'll,
har-f-ened since Yivie Noel forsook Queens
married an American, and disbanded
trusty non-professional band.
Yours affectionately, J
AUSTRALIA JANE.
A further growl has been made to Min
rnter Barnes re the Government restrictior
on indiscriminate boring in Western Queens-
land. Barnes, however, was prepared t or
it, and hurled some statistics at the growlers
that were hard to dodge. The N S Wales
flow has decreased 38 per cent, in the last
years, and Bananaland’s flow is
45,000.000 gallons (9 per cent.), less than it
was 1- months ago. In reply, the deputation
could merely mutter something about de-
tective casings and reach for its hat. *
“Itan,” from the North:—
_ I am a prophet. As sure as the sun, if the game
is not watched, Badger will get a long extension
of his co. s rights to the tramways in Brisbane.
1 he local authorities, mostly incapables, cannot agree
amongst themselves about taking the lines over The
Government cannot see where the money is to come
from to buy up the service, for all the millions the
htate can borrow within the next few years will be
wanted to placate Cohen and satisfy the clamor for
new railways. (Haven’t you noticed the plentiful
pars saying that £12,000,000 is due in 1915?) In
the meantime the public is shrieking for the exten-
SK)n of lines which have been promised for years,
and if Badger builds them he has the right to use
inrm , , seven J' ear s after the charter is up in
1920. While the Government and the local authori-
ties are squabbling about a basis of agreement,
Badger sits tight and says little. This bickering,
the louder the better, suits Badger. While these
past-masters in the art of wrangling keep up the
game, the co. is safe. The Government pretends
to be determined ; hut Bob Philp and other influential
people are barracking for a time extension for all
they are worth. The trams don’t meet the public
necessities by long chalks; and these advocates point
to the easy way of getting the public necessities
attended to. Not a word is said about the outrage-
ously short sections. Not a word is said, either,
abojit what will happen at the end of the extended
period. It all shows the utter madness of allowing
such utilities to pass out of the hands of the public
in thp first .place.


\ ■ I
A*f** '
.-■^Sv
* - -
i»P
•sr*
*- I it.
/—f
.tk. f*
■I
v.V "
■> - - ’■ -
,-> ; c?
5 . ' V. - -.
’■a*
53^
V.
<*■
IF
s'Jl]
. J v :'
C x
mwgml
:a
fmSm
m
p 4
r W •
¥Wa
?\
7
rxr
v//
RT^H
M . WF,t
ssr
S'
**yr®
X
sa
'• ■
.;...«t
...»
■
■**
'
JP&.i
»1
**-:
I
:. **
A
o
25
♦
C^v
ii
;! :S<s!t
»t
gsfi
5*
* *« >■*•-
V
\
r 4ar
/■
6a
\
<
i
mm
“WATSON'S N°lo
for
THE NINETEENTH HOLE !
Sydney Address 360 Kent S' Jfa/m£4 TfQtonitiW Scotfena


Debility
enfeebled nerves, poor
health and weakened blood
—these are troubles that
can be overcome. SCOTT’S
Emulsion never fails. It
repairs waste, enriches the
blood, revitalizes the nerves
and gives strength to resist
or drive out weakness and
disease. When you are
run-down, out of sorts or
in poor health ask for
and get genuine SCOTT’S—
the remedy that all doctors
recommend. But be sure
it is SCOTT’S—with the
fishman on the package.
SCOTT’S
Emulsion
Trade
\ 4
>5
(L
m
MARK
LACTOBACILLI N E
Purifies and disinfects the digestive tract—
by pitting the healthy tactic Ferment
against the less resistant organisms of
putrefaction and disease, with the result
that, the latter are immediately destroyed.
By this means it insures a condition of
PERFECT HEALTH and a power of
RESISTANCE TO DISEASE. Lacto-
bacilline is prepared in Tablet form by the
Societe le Ferment of Paris, under the con-
trol and scientific supervision of PRO-
FESSOR METCHNIKOFF, who autho-
rises no other preparation. Every
and box of tablets bears the words, “Le
Ferment seul fournisseur du Professor
Metchnikoff,” without which none are
genuine. *
It is prepared in boxes each containing
eip'ht cylinders of tablets, price ss. 6d. each,
and can be ordered through any chemist, or
direct from Depot Societe le Ferment, Aus-
tralasia Chambers. 40G-414 Queen Street,
Brisbane, or Branches: Vickery’s Chambers,
82 Pitt Street, Sydney; Safe Deposit Build-
ings, Queen Street, Melbourne; Ellershaw’s
Buildings. Cliff Street, Fremantle; Smee-
ton’s Buildings. Queen Street. Auckland *
IMPROVED
Compass
Clynometer
For Taking LtVELS and ANGLES.
Reading inclinations in inches
per yard or degrees.
Invaluab'e to Prospector, Miner, Geologist,
Engineer and Squatter.
Strong. Compact. Best lacquer brass,
2Ain. dia.,,Solid LeaLher Case.
Printed Instructions. PORTED
22,6
A. P Greenfield & Co. Ltd.
189-191 George Street, Brisbane.
POSTAL EDUCATION.
PRACTICAL and Theoretical, Organic and In-
organic Chemistry, Magnetism and Electricity,
Physics, Algebra and Machine; Drawing tharoughly
taught by correspondence. Special attention is paid
to each student’s work.
For terms apply—
L. CHADWICK,
Pioneer Estate, Lower Burciekin,
via Townsville, QUEENSLAND.
CARBIDE.
For First-Class
Results use
Best
II
PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can he obtained
A ,rom AUGUST BLUMENTMAL, LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Ag nts for Australia.
Established 1847.
Allcocßs
Plasters
Eagle Mark.
The World's Greatest
External Remedy.
Coughs, Colds, Weak Lungs
Allcock's Hasten act as a preventive
as wel as a curative.
Prevent colds becomingdeep seated
Rheumatism in Shoulder
Relieved by using Allcock’s Plasters
Athletes use them for
Stiffness or Sorenc ss of muscles.
Allcock's is the original and genuine porous plaster.
It is a standard remedy, sold by chemists in every part
of the civilized world. Apply wherever there is Pain.
When you need a Pill Partly vezttabu.
TAKE A Brandretfis Pill (Est. 1752.)
Wor Constipation, Biliousness, Headache, Dizziness, Indigestion, Etc.
SOLO BY CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
ALLCOCK MANUFACTURING Co., Birkenhead.
DO YOU ENJOY
Moving Pictures?
IF SO, YOU CAN HAVE A PERFECT
BIOGRAPH
MACHINE for £5.
SPECIAL LIGHTING OUTFIT, AND A Y
SPLENDID SELECTION OF NEW AND UP-TO-DATE FILMS' 1
SENT TO ANY HART OF THE WORLD FROM £5.
OR BY OUR EASY INSTALMENT SYSTEM AT 8/- MONTHLY.
This is a genuine little Biograph Machine, having top and bottom Film Spools, Maltese Cross
Movement, Powerful Lens, Top and Bottom Sprocket, Slide Carrier, Strong Lamp House, guaran-
teed Safe, and shows Large and Flickerless Moving Pictures, SUITABLE FOR THE PRIVATE
HOME, OR SMALL HALLS.
WRITE TO-DAY FOR FREE CATALOG.
It fully explains our Machines, and Lighting, and Our Easy Instalment System. SEND AT ONCE.
500,000 feet of New Films, at per foot.
a
*r
WORLD’S BIOGRAPH LTD., 117# Bathurst St., S,diey, N.S.W.
4
\
An
Odorless Breath
oh\
is but one of the many advantages that Pebeco
provides. Cleaner, whiter, stronger teeth, firmer,
healthier gums, and a high standard of mouth
health, all inevitably follow its night and morning
use.
OBTAINABLE ALL CHEMISTS.
Trial Tube of Pebeco, with interesting book and
test papers, free for three penny stamps, on appli-
cation to the Sole Agent,
(Dept.
G. ARNOLD
M), 6 O’Connell Street, Sydney
(WHOLESALE ONLY).
dney "Jy
2^
!'«w
Champion Shoe
11 t • f\ St. Louis
Machinery Co., nx
Combination Harness
and Shoe Stitchers,
Nailers, and Finishing
Outfits (power or
foot). Easily operated.
NON-ROYALTY,
No Shoe Repair Shop Complete, without •• CHAMPION ” Outfits.
J. W. LARBALESTIER, LTD., So ">
Circular Quay East, Sydney, N.S.W.
i
CATALOGUES (ILLUSTRATED) POST FREE ON APPLICATION. f !
r
GROW A MOUSTACHE-
Not a few bristles—but a full, permanent moustache. That will P' e
„ you a mpre manly appfearance.
C AL p illarine
is a suije moustache producer. It goes right into the cells of the
and forces out the hair long and strong. Hundreds of men have trieu
it Get a jar now. ; ; ,
Pri to 1 r%/t\ r..„„ IheC. & A. Moustache Trainer, worn^t
ifICC IU/O, iOSt rfC6. shapes the moustache. 2/6, 3/6. 5/6, -Fos>t
SKND For OUR FREE ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654- George Street, Sydney
EstaOlished 30 Years. _
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
Vo notice (excevt of a hostile character) will
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Tiame and address must appear on MSS. Vo
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted ; and no MS. will be returned
unhss stamps accompany.
Sunbeam (and others) : For the ten
thousandth time, there is no room in The Bulletin
to throw either bricks or bouquets 'at unaccepted
paragraphs. Hundreds of them are not printed because
there is no room for them ; hundreds more wouldn’t
be printed if space was consumed explaining why
the other hundreds were crowded 0ut.... Tower Hall:
Brief personal pars, most acceptable; no space—and
even less inclination —for reprint. .. .Chardibus:
Righti .. .Tower Hill: Letter received with thanks.
Don’t fully agree with you, but it is a pleasure to
hear from you, all the same... .T.K.A.: You will
find that mud-slinging idea in Mark Twain’s “Yankee
at the Court of King Arthur.”... .A. Turner: Have
carefully noted your statement that the Donnelys
(boatbuilders), Reynolds (boatbuilder), George Ellis
(boatbuilder and celebrated sailing man), Murdoch
(cricketer), Percy Spence (artist), Gladstone Eyre
(artist), C. Messenger (well-known sculler), “Dally" 1 ’
Messenger (boss footballer), Eraser (footballer) and
Harold Hardwick (champion swimmer), were all born
in Duke-street, Balmain. Can't verify the statement,
but take your word for it. Also, a member of The
Bulletin staff once lived there, and had the cele-
brated George Pile and his dog for neighbors. And
a horde of the New (or Rue) Australia crowd which
went to Paraguay had a temporary dwelling in the
next street.... Barabbas: Your latest heap of cheery
abuse wasn’t so comic as its predecessor. Perhaps
the vein is getting worked out. There are men who
can curse at high velocity for 10 minutes, or for
two columns, without using the same curse twice, but
they are rare —sadly rare. . . .Mint: Good fooling ; but
a little in that vein goes a long way... .Le Taon: In
reply to your simple and leg-pulling rqpase query:
Another Bulletin contributor recently noticed a
large, sluggish animal of a brown color." It had four
legs, spikes on its head, no visible signs of intelli-
gence, and something like a small portmanteau
dangling from the under part of it. Also it had
a wet nose, which it rested on the fence.
Several of it went to the ton. He asked a
passing native the name of it, and the native said:
“Garn. Kidyerdon’tnow.” It seems a most impro-
bable name. .. .Arthur J. P.: Fair jingle, but not
worth print. Second last line shovvs your lack of
skill... .Bellerive: Pathos this time:- —
POVERTY.
A man against an opponent
May deliver blow for blow
But poverty cruel poverty
Is a strong and bitter foe
Some men when unable to
Keep the grim wolf from the door
Will steal in desperation
And are dealt with by the law
With warm clothes and provisions.
You can wade'th thro the snow
But poverty cruel poverty
Is a strong and bitter foe.
.. . . Alf II.: No strength in it. . ..M.W.: Don’t care
for the widow or Josh. .. .Scotch-Australian : Written
in faint pencil and d —d with strong curses. . v . Alice
M. G.: Pretty stuff, but not in our line. T# one
of the other weeklies.... I. Male: Roundel hardly
agile enough... .G.W.A.: Feeble and conventional.
....Butter: Refuse to sing the song... .E.A. { “Cry
of the People” is just a yelp.... Parry: Cohen isn't
a starter.... Nemo: Don’t remember seeing it before,
but it’s no use, anyhow.... Anti-Cyclone: No use to
the printer... .E.A.: “Ipswich” might have been
something, but it isn’t. .. .Cocky: The great marga-
rine poem will not be written by you... .Romey:
You can’t break in here with such implements....
Tombol: Brighter songs have been written about
borrowing. .. . J.F.B. (S.A.) : Some freshness in it,
but it’s not up to print standard. .. .C.R.L.H.: Re-
turning article. Daily paper stuff... .Johnnie W.:
No name or no merit in verse, and fearfully
blurred typing. You oughtr to get 0n... .G.L.M.:
Three immense slabs of rhyme condemned as under-
proof.... Bill (V.): Printing your letter as a fine
example of what we have to put up with: “I enclose
a piece of verse. It is my fourth ■ assault on The
Bulletin, the other three having been futile. I
am not writing, however, to tell you this, but to
complain that my last perpetration was not even
abused in the Correspondence Column. Silence is
even more cutting than abuse. I hope you will
accept this, my fourth effort; if not, I hope you will
criticise it. Still licking the hand that spurns me,
I am, etc., etc.” And now we are searching for the
appropriate insult. .. . J.W.G.: Verses don t hang very
well on the selected point. .. . R.S H.: Counted out.
....Maxwell D.: They read mechanically... .Dal:,
Ah, no. .. .L.C.H.S.: Verses indifferent stuff and
another bard beat yon by a lyre. .. .W.W.H.L_: It
appears to be one of those careful stories infivhich
someone has a tremendous struggle with his or her
conscience. Afraid you can’t wrestle entertain-
ingly in ink.... Eddie W.: Many happy returns.
Sorry we haven’t got/the sort of page your poem
needs. Send it to one of the other weeklies,....
Mainie M.: No use, dear lady.... Mart T. (S.A.):
You’re a dreary longshore moraliser with no appre-
ciation of Art. Go -t0!.... Stewart G.: No kick,
....Thomas S.: As rendered bv you, it is du11....
R.H. (Croydon); The brief Spring whoop isn’t as
bad as the others (That’s the kindest way we/can
put it.)
TO ARTISTIC- (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.G.: Jest is fairlv feeble and the draw-
ing is scratchy.. . .G.A.YV.: Little Willy is a dread-
ful precocious hybrid.... Alex. L.: The alleged
apostle is thoroughly depressing. By doing such a
picture, you invite comparison with a number of
artists. That would be disastrous for v0u....M.
Mack: The horse distances the rest of the picture.
It is a noble animal, arid far too good for its rider
and surroundings. .. .Athol N.: On present form, you
need many years’ practice. Sketches are fearfully
scratchy. Send to any stationery firm for materials.
. ...J.S.: Hat gag isp't very amusing, and the
shocked husband s expression is too agonised....
W.J.N.: The gag is old and the sketch impossible.
The squatter . especially is terrible. His hair and
beard are made all in one piece, and look like
catskiri ~ . .R.E.P.: Cohen isn't a starter. His head
is too immense and his feet are twisted. .. .L.R.: A
bleak, hairy product. You can't get fine effects with
a multitude of fine lines unless you know where to
put them. If you scratch round with a fine nib until
you get the line you, want, the superfluous scratches
look like hair dr "fluff, and a man’s face resembles a
dog’s. ... >~T
Ernest GMitty, an ex-pupil of the ■ Insti-
tute for the Blind at Auckland (M.L.), can
show a record that any unde’s nephew might
be proud of. He entered the school as a
boy of eight, went on to the University at
17, scored several successes, took his B.A.
degree fit 21, and a scholarship next year
at St. John’s and wrote M.A. after
his name three years later. Two years ago
he was, ordained a ..deacon, put in two use-
ful years ak cmt» of an Auckland city
parish, and. ; thcir' adapted an appointment
on the staff of S£ John’s College at Auck-
land. Last April the Government appointed
him as one of its representatives on the
Board of the Blind Institute, and the selec-
tion gave satisfaction all round. In addi-
tion to all his other achievements Mr. Chitty
is a fine organist, and gives recitals on his
favorite instrument.


Australian
Established 1849.
Mutual Provident Society.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
has money to lend
r .; —— e> rreenoia or Leasenoi
Freehold and C.P. (Combined). Pastoral A ,Ty or Subu rban Properties, or o
ot Government Debentures. Inscribed stnrW A Lands or on the Security
tralian States or New Zealand at sury Bi,,s of an V <*f the Aus-
Our new Momratre Deed contain, a common, n °™f ST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST,
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during anv "ea! wirL?,?" o'' 0 ''’ 6 ” Ch * DHvile ' P 0f repavin?
Directors—The Hon. A. VV. Meeks M.LO ~rh ,iI h T nor,,ceor Payment of any fine.
Hon. Jnim 8 Burns, M.L.0.; The Hon. R. j Black MTr" • tv.' 6 t? on ‘r. J ' T ' Walke "* Denutv-Chairman : The
E-q.. K.C. ; Sir Alex. MaeCormiok, M.l). ' General VI F ‘ K ‘ w >ncnco,nbe, M.L.C. ; Adrian Knox,
HEAD OFFICE :87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY a srer and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A.. F.S.S.
H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
r r
Bargains
FROM
ENGLAND
PAWNBROKERS’
Clearance Sale.
SEND AT ONCE FOR OUR
FULL LIST OF
3,500
GENUINE BARGAINS.
BARGAINS
FOR
ALL
ASTOUNDING VALUE.
Brimming over with money-saving possibilities.
Patronised by Royalty and the Nobility.
Bankers:
London County Sc Westminster Bank,
Camberwell Branch, London.
W off er of Six' Months" Free Approval* 8 Cust ° mers> hence ollr remarkable
own convenience, in your own honu? and if r/ e ‘he articles you may choose at your
high quality 'and’ exceptional value return them T de " g . h {?* a " d fu " y satis,ied with the
immediately return your deposit ’ ° US Wlth,n six months and we wiM
May we solicit a trial order P Absolute satisfaction guaranteed
or money returned in full.
TERMS OF BUSINESS.-Any Article Sent on Approval. Carriage
Free, on rece.pt of remittance. Cash refunded in full for goods
not approved and returned us within six months.
Read what “The Christian Age” says—
■‘DAVlS a Co., of -26 Denmark Hill, have gained
considerable reputation for supplying unredeemed
pledges at very moderate prices We gather from
their latest Dargum Hist that great savings can be
effected bv purchasing a second-hand article of
jewellery w licit has just had enough wear to test
Its value at about one-third the original cost price.
Included iu their catalogue are watches by some of
the finest m ikers in the world.”
Read what M Great Thoughts” says—
V The / e cannot exist much doubt as to the intrinsic
value of any advertised article when such advertisers
are willing to send the goods advertised on the
TuI Pr v V, 'i* • Thi » system is adopted by
Messrs. PA V IS A Co., and is a singular proof tliat
Messrs. DA\ IS & Co. have every belief in their
ability to please their customers and prove the
genuine nature of their announcements.”
14/6
Field, Race, or Marine Glasses.
- . _ £ihl- Military Binocular (by Lefaier),
as supplied to officers in the Army and Navy
10 achromatic lenses ; 50 miles range ; shows
bullet mark at 1,000-yds.; saddler made case ;
great bargain; sacrifice, 14/6.
21/:
Powerful £4/4/- Binocular
Glasses (by Chevalier) ; 10
Field
lens
magnification power, brilliant definition, over
60 miles range, great depth of focus. Urge
field of view ; adjusted to the hie’'p-;t degree
of scientific accuracy; in fad'd L made sling
case; tremendous bargain: sacrifice, £l/1/-
37/6
.Powerful £B/8/- Double Draw Bino-
culars, 12 lens magnilication power
(by Lnmiere), as supplied to H.R.H. the Crown
Prince of Greece; most powerful glass made;
name of ship can be distinctly read five miles
from shore; quick focus, brilliant held of view,
colourless achromatic crystal lenses, enhanced
stereoscopic effect, great penetration power; in
solid brown English leather case; sacrihce, £l/17/6
12/6
Gent’s heavy 18-ct. Gold-cased
Keyless Leyer Hunter Watch,
improved action (John Forrest, London); 10
years’ warranty; absolutely perfect timekeeper;
also Double Curb Albert, same quality with
handsome Compass attached ; all quite indis-
tinguishable from new; complete, sacr.fice, 12/6.
12/6
Lady’s handsome 18-ct. Gold-cased
Keyless Watch, improved action
(Aden & Co., London); exact timekeeper; 10
years’ warranty; also I ng Watch Guard, elegant
design, same quality; together, sacrit ce, 12/6.
(Worth £4/4/-). Real Russian Furs.
Rich, dark sable brown Fur, 8 ft.
long; Granville Stole, deep shaped
beautifully trimmed, 12 tails and heads
Granny Muff matching; together, 15/6.
collar,
; large
22/6
(Worth £5/5/-). Real Russian Furs.
Rich, dark sable brown, extra long
Princess Stole, trimmed with head and tails at
back and on shoinders ; also large animal Muff,
with heads and tails banging ; in perfectly new
condition ; together, great sacrifice, £l/2/6.
12/6
Gent’s fashionable Double Albert,
18-ct. Gold (stamped) Idled, curb
pattern, heavy solid links; sacrifice, 12/6.
ii
18/6
Lady’s £4/4/- 18-ct. Solid Gold, ball-
marked, Diamond and Sapphire
Doublet Ilalf-boop King, claw setting, large
faultless stones; sacrifice, 18/6.
£l3/13/- 5-Stone Diamond
jphire Half-hoop Ring, 18 ct.
Gold, Government hall-marked, claw setting,
containing two large round diamond's of dazzling
whiteness and three beautiful sapphires of
richest quality; sacrifice, £3/10/-
266
Gent’s £4/4/- fashionable Dark Grey
Tweed Jacket Suit (by Sfrou I,
High class Tailor)'; sp'endid quality,
West End cut ai d finish, never worn ;
39-in., waist 36-in., length 32J-in.; £l/6/6.
latest
breast
26/6
Lady’s £5/51- Solid Gold English,
. hall-marked, Keyless Watch, highly
linistieJ )ewelled movement, exact timekeeper,
richly engraved; 12 years’ warranty; £l/6/6.
70/-
Magnificent Gent’s £l3/13/- Single
Stone Diamond Ring, exceptionally
fine pure white stone, perfect in every respect,
mounted in 18-ct. Gold, Government hall-
marked, claw setting ; sacrifice, £3/10/-
23/6
Lady’s £als/- Solid Gold long Watch
Guard, handsome and very stylish
in pattern, stamped and g laranteed, in faultless
and new condition; sacrifice, £l/6/6.
55/-
Gent’s magnificent £ll/11/- Solid
Gold English, hall-marked, Keyless
Lever, Centre Seconds, Chronograph Stop
Watch, exam, by celenrated watchmaker (W.
Russell, London); jewelled movement, perfect
reliability in any climate in the world ; timed to
a minute a month ; 20 years' warranty ; 6 months’
trial; great bargain; sacrifice, £2/15/-
596
Lady’s magnificent £ll/11/- Diamond
-- - and Sapphire Cluster Ring, 18-ct. Gold,
hall-marked ; there are ten white and faultless
diamonds surrounding a superb sapphire of
richest quality; to appreciate the full beauty of
this Ring ir must be seen ; sacrifice, £2/19/6.
29/6
Baby’s Long Clothes, superfine
quality, maguificent £5/5/- parcel,
82 articles, everything required; beautiful
garments ; the perfection of mother's personal
work ; jiever worn ; great sacrifice, £i/9/6.
32/6
Valuable Ylolin (worth £lO/10/-),
perfect dtmdition, labelled Stradivarius
Cremona, 1721 ; rich Jnellow tone, with Bow
and Case, suit professional or soloist; £l/12/6.
13/6
1 Q/R (Worth £3/3/-). Choice Expanding
10/0 Watch Bracelet; finest workman-
ship, most successful ever invented, will fit
and grip any wrist, thereby avoiding ali vibration
and ensuring perfect timekeeping; 18-ct. Gold-
cased; 6 months’trial; sacrifice, 13/6.
12/9
(Worth £l/15/-). Right superfine quality
Chemises, Knickers, and Pstticoats;
magnificent parcel; sacrifice, 12/9.
396
Spoons and Forks. (£lO/10/- Set).
A 1 quality, - silver-plated on nickel
silver, stamped maker’s initials, Queen Anne
pattern; 12 Table, 12 Dessert, 12 Tea Spoons,
12 Table, 12 Dessert Forks; Service 5 doz.;
wonderful bargain, £l/19/6; Half-Set, £l.
10/6
Fashionable Curb Chain Padlock
Bracelet, with safety chain, solid
links, 18-ct. Gold (stamped) filled, in velvet case;
sacrifice, 10/6; another heavier, 12/6.
26/6
(Worth £4/4/-). Twenty-four superfine
_ quality Nightdresses, Chemises,
Knickers, Petticoats, Combinations, &c.;
treu en ions bargain ; sacrifice, £l/6/6.
6/9
quoises
filled; i
Pre ty Necklet, with
attached, set Parisian
; elegant design; 18-ct.
n velvet case ; bargain ;
Heart Pendant
pearls and tur-
Gold (siamped)
sacrifice, 6/9.
DAVIS & CO.
( D " T -)
PAWNBROKERS,
26 DENMARK HILL,
LONDON, ENGLAND,
Use WELSBACH MANTLES
Mrs,
•iit
tt+r
‘ t ,
*>Q
ten
m
’■r>
55
... EVERY KIND OF LIGHT.
Our Illustration shows a new type
of Soft or Collapsible Inverted
Mantle, which entirely overcomes
transit and initial installation
breakage. Write for particulars.
WELSBACH LIGHT CO. LTD. OF AUSTRALASIA
302 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
380 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne. Creek Street, Brisbane. 102-4 Viotoria Street, Welllngton^lTZ^
SEEING IS BELIEVING.
LE BLOND LATHES.
L
5.4!
LE BLOND 21in. HEAVY DUTY SINGLE PULLEY DRIVE LATHE.
REMOVES 45 CUBIC INCHES OF 25 P. CARBON STEEL PER MINUTE.
Diameter of Bar 6 inches
Cutting Speed 40 feet
Depth of Cut % inch
Feed Per Revolution of Spindle 14 inch
Material 25 P. Carbon
Diameter of Driving Pulley 16 inches
Width of Belt 5 inches
RP.M 400
Pounds of Metal Removed Per Hour . 765
Performance of this kind is only possible on a lathe of this character:—With
patent form of compensating Vee. castings of steel mixture, hardened steel
spindle bearings, and a headstock with a high speed, constant torque driving
belt.
CARRIED IN STOCK BY
BENSON BROTHERS
(Bole Agents for
Australasia).
We Stock all Classes of Engineers’ Machine Tools,
51-53 DRUITT ST., SYDNEY. 60 QUEEN ST., HELBOURNE.
Mr JOHN McCORNIACK
SINGS EXCLUSIVELY FOR
"HIS MASTER’S VOICE” RECORDS.
The great tenor sings only for these records, because he knows that
they alone are capable of reproducing his wonderful voice in a manner
strikingly true to life.
Each note is rendered in its full purity and volume —every charming
expression of the singer’s voice being faithfully conveyed.
These are but a few of the John McCormack
records: —
2-052028 Salve dimora, “Faust.”
21-052024 Tu chi a dio Spiegasti,
“Lucia di Lammermoor.”
G. C. 4-2072 Annie Laurie.
G. C. 4-2076 I Hear You Calling M
G. C. 4-2219 I Know of Two Bright
Eyes.
G. C. 4-2221 The Rosary.
02327 “In a Persian Garden.”
(Complete list on request.)
&
«ar>»
“//is o voice.”
Hear John McCormack through the medium of these records. You
will readily accord liberal praise to the excellence attained in repro-
ducing the celebrated tenor’s voice.
Instrument catalogue, record lists and name of nearest dealer on
request.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
CIGARS FOR CRITICAL SMOKERS.
If you wish to get a high-grade cigar at a moderate price, try
RING of ALL BUENOS
The ripe flavor and fragrant bouquet of this brand will give you intense satisfaction,. Every
one burns with a free draught—sweet and cool to the butt, leaving that white ash which comes
only from fully-matured tobacco leaf.
V*.
m
r.<
PRICES: -
KING OF ALL BUENOS — Cd. each, or 3 for 1/-, posted; 50 for 15/9; 100 for
31/. —post free.
KING OF ALL CLUBS, another excellent brand. 5() for 20/ post free.
ALL TOBACCONISTS SELL THEM.
Craig' & Aitßen,
654 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
Established 30 Years.


Government Notices.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, August 15, 1913.
ROYAL AUSTRALIAN NAVAL COLLEGE.
Appointment of Two Masters.
A RPLICATIONS are invited from persons qualified
for appointment as Senior Master or Junior
Master in the Royal Australian Naval College.
Applicants must be of Australian birth or perman-
ently domiciled in Australia, and not more than 45
years of age.
Qualifications (educational) necessary:—
(а) Must be a University graduate, with special
qualifications in and aptitude for a particular
subject of instruction ;
(б) As Senior Master, must have obtained high
honors in mathematics at a British University,
and must be qualified in physics ;
(c) As Junior Master, must be qualified to teach
history, geography and English. Preference will
be given to candidates possessing an honors
degree in history or English.
Rates of pay: Senior Master, minimum, £450 ;
maximum, £525 per annum. Junior Master, mini-
mum, £350 ; maximum, £425 per annum.
Full particulars regarding conditions of appoint-
ment, etc., may be obtained from the Naval Secre-
tary, Navy Office, Melbourne, with whom applica-
tions close on SEPTEMBER 15, 1913.
S. A. PETHEBRIDGE,
Secretary, Department of Defence.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, August 23, 1913.
ROYAL AUSTRALIAN NAVY.
Vacancy for Surgeon.
APPLICATIONS are invited from persons qualified
for appointment as Surgeon in the Royal Aus-
tralian Navy: term of appointment to be tor three
years, with option of re-engaging for further three
years if services required.
Present rates of pay range from £387 16s. 3d.
on appointment to £433 Bs. 9d. after four years’
service, including deferred pay, but exclusive of
allowances for uniform and rations ( £39 10s. lOd.
per annum).
Candidates, whose ages must not exceed 28 years,
or in special circumstances 30 years, must be duly
registered practitioners under States’ Medical Acts.
Further particulars may be obtained from the
Naval Secretary, Navy Office, Lonsdale Street, Mel-
bourne, with whom applications close on SEPTEM-
BER 30, 1913.
S. A. PETHEBRIDGE,
Secretary, Department of Defence.
Legal Notices.
In the Supreme Court of New Zealand.
Wellington District.
IN THE MATTER of The Trustee
Act, 1908, and
IN THE MATTER of The Public
Trust Office Act, 1908; and
IN THE MATTER of the estate of
George Tuckweli formerly of Wel-
lington in the Dominion of New
Zealand hut latterly of Sydney and
Cobar in the State of New South
Wales in the Commonwealth of
Australia, Laborer, deceased.
PURSUANT to an Order made by His
Honor Mr. Justice Cooper under Sec-
tion 74 of the Trustee Act, 1908, on the
second day of August, 1913, in the matter of
the above estate all creditors and others
(INCLUDING THEREIN THOSE
CLAIMING AS NEXT OF KIN $F THE
SAID GEORGE TUGKWELL) having
claims against the estate of the said de-
ceased are reouired to send in their claims
to The Public Trustee, Wellington, New
Zealand, on or before the 81st May, 1914,
and in default of any such claims The
I üblic Trustee will on the last mentioned
date proceed to distribute the assets of the
said deceased having regard only to the
claims of which he shall then have notice.
~ .DATED at Wellington. New Zealand,
this 2nd day of August, 1913.
J. W. MACDONALD,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office.
NOTE The said George Tuckweli was
by an Oruer of the sa,d Court on the 23rd
March. 1911, presumed to be dead. He was
a native of Wellington and left to reside in
-New South Wales. Claimants must for-
ward full particulars of the parents of the
said George Tuckweli. his brothers and
sisters, the date of his birth and a resume of
his life, which information will be checked
with the true facts in the possession of The
Public Trust Office.
ANNE GULLIVER, Spinster, deceased.
DURSUANT to an Order of the Chancery Division
of the High Court of Justice in England, made
in gn Action in the matter of the E>tale of Anne
Gulliver, Spinster, deceased, KEOWN-BOYD v
KEOWN-BOYD, 1913 G. 251, the persons claiming to
be entitled by virtue of or according to the Statute
of Distribution to the personal Estate of the said
Anne Gulliver, Spinster, late of Barnwood House
Asylum, Gloucester, who died intestate on the 20th
March, 1912, living at the time of her death, or to be
the legal personal representatives of such of the per-
sons entitled as are now dead, are personally or by
their Solicitors, on or before the 7th January, 1914
to come in and enter their claims with the under-
signed Master at the Chambers of Mr. Justice War-
rington and Mr. Justice Sargant, at the Royal Courts
of Justice, Strand, London, England, or in default
thereof they will be peremptorily excluded from the
benefit of the said Order.
Wednesday, the 14th day of January, 1914, at 12
o’clock noon, at the said Chambers (Room 315) is
apopinted for hearing and adjudicating upon ’the
claims.
Dated this 30th day of July, 1913.
CHAS. HULBERT,
Master.
NOTE. —The said Anne Gulliver’s father, George
Gulliver, F.R.C.S.E., and Surgeon in the Royal Regi-
ment of Horseguards, is believed to have had five
brothers and sisters, the children of Samuel Gulliver
and Mary his wife, all born at Banbury, Oxfordshire,
England. One of such sisters, Georgians, married
Thomas Stretton. The said Anne Gulliver s mother,
Anne Keown, had four brothers, namely—Richard
Keown, John Keown, William Keown (otherwise
Boyd), and Henry Keown, and three sisters, namely—-
Mary Keown, who married William Beers; Margaret
Keown, who died a Spinster; and Isabella Keown,
who married Robert Boyd. They are all the children
of Richard Keown, Attorney at Law, and Mary, his
wife, late of Ballvdugan, County Down, Ireland.
GUSTAVUS THOMPSON & SONS,
Devereux Chambers,
Temple, London, England,
Plaintiff’s Solicitors.
A NEW BRANCH OF THE COMMONWEALTH BANK
LADY’S CARTER PURSE
The safest place to carry money or valuables
by day and night. I.adies ofteo regret that
fashion prevents pockets in costumes, and
handbags are unsafe »T> e Carter Purse
is a new idea that is very popular in America,
where men as well as women have adopted it.
It is nicely made of soft leather, with strap
and buckle Price 2/3, ive pay carnage.
'The Union Co., 299 Elizabeth St.. Melbourne.
“LINSEED COMPOUND,” of 40 years’
proven efficacy for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, etc.
Amusements.
H KK MA.IK.STI ’» 'l'll 10. VT KK. SVDNKV.
Direct ion .1. (' \V 11.1,1 AMS< > V I.rn
EVERY EVENING AT 7.50.
A DELIGHTFUL & FASCINATING ENTERTAINMENT.
ADELINE GENE E,
WORLD'S SUPREME DANCER.
ALEXANDER VOLIMN and the Celebrated IMPERIAL
RUSSIAN IiaLLKT.
PRICES: D.C. and O.S. (I> oked), 7/6; at door, 6/-;
Stalls, 4/-; Amphitheatre till 7.:>u,-j/-; thereafter, ]/-
PLANS AT PALING'S.
T n I*; A T It ,E It <) \ A 1.. s Y 1> N K V.
Direction J. 0. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
Last Two Nights of A MARRIAGE OR CON VKNIENCE.
MR. LEWIS WALLER'S SEASON.
NEXT SATURDAY.
FOR LAST TWO WEEKS OF SEASON.
The New Eighteenth Century Romance,
A FAIR HIGHWAYMAN.
: a,lrt (Reserved and at door), 6/-;
Stalls, 4/-; Amphitheatre till 7.60, 2/- ; thereafter. 1/-
ADEI,I* II | THE ATIt E. SYI)N E Y.
Direction GEORGE WILLOUGHBY.
EVERY EVENING.
THE TALK OF THE CITY.
SYDNEY’S SENSATIONAL DRAMATIC BOOM.
The Novel and IhrillingDrama of American and Chinese
1 Incidents,
QUEEN OF THE WHITE SLAVES.
BOX PLAN AT NICHOLSON’S DAILY.
PRICES: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-and 1/- Early Doors 6d. extra.
PAi, A C E 111 It A T uTL S\I)N li 1.
EXTRAORDINARY ENTHUSIASM.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE BERT BAILEY COMBINATION in
THE GOLDEN SHANTY.
BERT BAII.EY as CHILLER GREEN.
BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
POPULAR PRICES: Dress Circle and Orchestra Stalls,
4/' > Back Stalls, 2/6; Gallery, 1/-; Earlv Doors to
Gallery. 6d. extra (except on Saturdays and Holidays).
|\l vIION At A.MPIUTIIKATRK. SYDNEY.
Managing Director: BEN J. FULLER.
BRENNAN-FULLER’S VAUDEVILLE CIRCUIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MARCEL & BELL. America’s Novelty Dancers.
TORSYIH & BOYNE, in '' A Sister to Assist’er.”
VARDAMAN, offeti g Artistic Feminine Tvpes.
HUNTRESS, Impersonator and Classic Dancer.
GEORGE ROWLEY, The Fashion Plate.
TIIE BENON, Agile American Aetialists.
ST. GEORGE DAYNE, Musical Sketcn Artists.
PRICES: 3/-, 2/-, 1/6, 1/- Box Plan at Theatre.
“J" H E OIaYM P I A , SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICT lItI S, LTD.
"RUST OF AM.”
FAMILY M A TIN E K—S ATUR D A Y.
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRA.
3d. to 2s. Plan at Nicholson's (No Extra Fee).
§ 1/ EN C E It’S L YCEU M, SYDNEY
EVERY EVENING.
PAUL J. HAINEY’S AFRICAN HUNT.
Depicting ail the Wild and Ferocious Beasts
of the Jungle.
THE KLNEI’O PHONE.
TALKING PICTURES. ALL NEW SUBJECTS
BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
JOHN JIcCOR 31 A C K’S T O UR.
MESSRS. J. & N. TAIT
have pleasure in announcing the Australian Tour of
JOH N McCUli ALACK,
“THE GREATEST LYRIC TENOR OF THE DAY.”
Supported by
MISS MAY HUXLEY, Soprano.
from Royal Albert Hall, Queen’s Hall London,
MR. DONALD McBEATH .. .. Violinist
MR. VINCENT O’BRiEN .. .. Pianist.
SYDNEY SEASON : SEPTEMBER 4,6, 8, 10, 11,
in the TOWN HALL.
BRISBANE SEASON : SEPTEMBER 16, 18, 20.
ADELAIDE. MELBOURNE. PERTH AND NEW
ZE VLANI) TO FOLLOW.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
THE AUDITORIUM, MELBOURNE.
■ MPEIt I A la It OLla E It It IN K,
" Foot of William Street.
A REFINED RIXKING RENDEZVOUS
• for
FASTIDIOUS PEOPLE.
THREE SESSIONS PER DAY.
GORDON GRANT,
M * ~re r.
NOW OPEN.
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
Over 30 years ago the late Lord
lieaconsfield testilied to the benefits
be received rom Himrod’s
Asthma Powder an 1 every
posi brings sun iar letters
to-day.
Famed for 40 Years.
Best remedy oi Asthm .
Hay r ever, reuse Co.d or
ord nary Cougn.
So a ,h IMi by Chemists ana uteres
throughout Austru.as.a.
Amusements.
RiCliA It 1) S’ T 1 V O I. 1 T H E A T It K.
Personal Direction Air. 111(111 I). McINIOSIL
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
YVILLETTE WIIITAKER. assisteo by K. WILBUR HILL,
in a B iilia.iit Musical Entertainment.
MBRIAN'S DOGS; i'n '• The spoiled Honeymoon.”
THE GREAT GOLDEN TROUPE, Fascinating- Dancers.
WILLIAMS & RANKIN, Premier Cornetists.
FRANK PARISH, Sensational Jumper.
JULIA GONZALEZ, VAUDE & VERNE, GtIAS. ZOLI.
Ami a GREAT COAIPANV of Established Favorites.
Prices: 5/-, 4/- and 1/-
I* Elt A HOLS K, MEI,ISoT It N K~
Personal Direction Mr. HUGH I). McINTOSH.
SIX HOBOES, in “On the Road.”
LOLA KRASAVINA, Russian Operatic Vocalist.
MARTYNNE, the Electrical Surprise.
8 SAXONES. Premier Dance and Song Stars.
FLYNN and McLAUGHLIN, Novelty and Eccentric
Dancers.
DIAMOND & BEATRICE, Instrumental Musical
Specialty Artists.
ALBERTO MARI I, Italian Tenor.
Plan at Allan’s. 43TPIUUES —45., :is., 25., Is.
DitINCESa'S Til EAT It E. M ELBOLENE.
1 Sole Lessee: GEO. MARLOW LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT S.
Reappearance of the Irish Singing Comedian,
ALLEN DOONE, in his New Piav,
barky or rallymore.
ADMISSION : 5/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/- Plan at Pianola Co.
U E It MAJESTY'S THEATRE. M KLBO L KNE.
■ ■ Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY), SEPTEMBER 4.
THE QUINLAN OPERA CO. in
TALES OF HOFFMAN.
To-morrow (Friday), September 5, TANNHAUSER.
Saturday, Septtnihtr 6, LOUISE.
Plan at Allan’s. Reserved Seats and Dress Circle,
10s. 6d. and 7s. 6d. (at doors). Balcony and Stalls,
ss, Pit and Gallery, 2s. 6d. Early Door, Is. extra.
THEATRE ROYAL,, MELBOURNE.
1 Direction J, C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Reapppearance of FRED NIBLO, supported by a
Distinguished Company, in
TIIE FORTUNE HUNTER.
PRICES: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-
Stalls, 4/-. Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
the king’s Theatre. .Melbourne.
■ Sole Lessee and Manager: William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Reappearance of the Favorite.
MAGGIE MOORE,
in
S T RUCK 01 L.
POPULAR PI?ICES. PLANS AT ALLAN’S.
D I .1 O U T H E A T R K. M E L It O I R N E.
Lessees . . Messrs. BRENNAN & FULLER.
Sub-Lessee REYNOLDS DENNISTON.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.10.
HUGH C. BUCKLER and MISS VIOLET PAGET.
Supported by a Brilliant Comedy,
In the Cleverest Play of the Century,
FANNY’S FIRS I PLAY.
Prices: 55., 35., 25., Is. 6d. & Is.
Plans: Alian’s, Grand, Menzits, Oriental.
\A/IRTH BROS., LTD., GREATEST SHOW
vw ON EARTH.
CIRCUS, HIPPODROME & ZOO.
WIRTHS’ PARK, MELBOURNE.
Positively Last Week of Present Programme.
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 8.
Astoundinc Novelties direct front Europe and America,
f, aturing among a host of Star turns, the
I)E A TH DEFY ING D ANTE’S
Shaking Dice with Death " hizzing rhe Whirl in mid-
air on Motor Bicycles amidst a Den of Ferocious Lions.
PRICES AS USUAL. . BOX PLAN AT GLEN’S.
|yg E L B O U R N E GLACI A It I U M.
EVERY AFTERNOON AND EVENING.
REAL ICE SKATING,
MOST HEALTHY EXERCTSE.
FASCINATING, EXHILARATING, INVIGORATING.
r\ L Y M I> I A. O L V M P I A.
W L Y M P I A. MELBOURNE.
(Just across Princes Bridge).
WHERE ARE TO BE SEEN THE UNRIVALLED
SPENCER’S PICTURES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS AT 2.30.
EVERY NIGHT AT 8.
yy E S T’S I’ ALA C E. MELIiOU It N E.
HIE BEST BEST’S PJ CTURE!Sr|||,’ m ,. ST
OF ALL LIMITED. OF ALL
Managing Dirciior: Mr. T. J. Wkst.
NIGHTLY AT 8. Matinees Wednesdays, 'Saturdays
and All Holiday!, at 2,30.
INK G«K A T EST I*ICTn UI A f . K\TIItIItISE ' | V J • j i.- \Voßi.h
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be
seen at WESTS PICTURES. Complete (’hange
” VI rv w,,pli - Prices—fid. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s
T J 'U Australian Magazine—Til E LONU
HAM). rhe National Monthly. Price. 6d.
BROWNING
Automatic Pistols
The Safest, Surest and Most Accurate Pocket Arm ever produced.
With these three men held 2000 troops and
police at bay for days.
PRICES : Vest pocket model,
60/-; New triple safety, Cal. 32,
OVER
6 0/ " ; Standard Police Model, Cal. 32.
60/-; Military, Cal. 35, £5/10/- t
1,250,000 IN USE.
Other makes, including Reform,
Webley (6 models), Colt (8 models),
others.
25/-; Walman, 35/
Mauser (2 models),
-; Bayard,
Savage, and
40/-;
many
As we are experts to the Government Departments for
carry the biggest stock in the Southern Hemisphere.
Automatic
Get our catalogue to-day (free by mentioning this paper).
Pistols,
we
ALCOCK &
DI F" I? C" F* 318 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
For the Country Horseman
The saddle here illustrated is expressly a •
for country use, for stock riding, etc. 1 • gned
of the best materials throughout. If a » 1S built
frknds are requiring such a saddle they Ln fl ° Ur
this a genuine bargain. 11 “nd
l
It has a hogskin seat, a plated bar-tree
long flaps, with points to buckle below. An econom*
cal feature is the skirt, which extends all '
and thus adds years of wear to the saddle by™™'
tecting its interior from the weather. It h °
deep, “sweepy” seat, 4in. kneepads, nickel-plat*
iron stirrups, and double buckle leather girth Th
price complete is £3/15/- Mention of Th!
Bulletin when ordering will ensure your havinsr •
leather surcingle given in free, and the saddle wil
be forwarded freight paid. It is to be obtains
from J. P. Talty, 388 Sussex Street, Sydney
LOUIS KAUFFMANN CIGARS
fp~
&
Per lOC
Imperials - 45/.
Idyllos - . 37/6
Diademas - 22/6
Gran Bouquets 20/6
Infantas - 17/6
Levucas - 15/5
Remit amount -with
order and I will deliver
Cigars, all charges
paid, to any part of
Australia. Money Ke.
turned in Full if
Buyer not satisfied
after smoking five or
six Cigars.
Illustrated descriptive booklet mailed to any address on appli*
cadon. Only address —
*4 QUEEN ST,, MELBOURNE
ARE YOU FAIR TO YOURSELF?
YOU begin to
1 look old, with
those grey and
faded hairs,
always so con-
spicuous. A
buttle of the
world-famed
Lockyer’s
Hair Restorer, 1/6
gives health to the Hair and restores the
natural colrur. It cleanses the scalp; is
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
DON’T LOOK OLD.
HORL'CKS
MALTED MILK
gives H eal th and Strength. It
has a delicious taste, ready for
use and requires no cooking.
It’s the cream of the finest
milk and cereals in powder
form and it means health.
Ask for
Horlick’s at .
ikvW-
*ND|RA
Or *o*
the Soda
Fountain
PILE PILLS.
PERMANENT CURE.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS.
Non-aperient. A sure and speedy cure for all cases
of Internal and External Piles.
Have Cured Thousands of Cases, some after suffering
over 40 years.
Made and sold by ANDREW MURPHY, WOY
■WOY (N.S.W.), Sole Proprietor.
PRICE 3/- PER BOX, or 8 BOXES £l,
Post Free.
On Snip at All Druggists and Chemists throughout
the States.
iTita
17
RW
Hhis majesty l !";
'MODEL THEATRE 1
Proscenium 13 by 12 Inches, Stage 13 by 15# Inches.
Nine Scenes, beautifully colored, with appropriate side
scenes, drop scene, orchestra, &c. 72 characters, suitably
costumed, properties, books of the words of Three Complete
Plays,4-“ Cinderella," “ Uncle Tom’s Cabin,” and u Black-
Eyed Susan," with full stage directions. All the timber
for building Theatre cut to sizes ready to fit together, with
plan and instructions, nails, &c. Only 6/6 for everything,
packed and delivered at any address. Anyone with taste
for theatricals may interest and amuse his ffiends with
performances similar to the marionette shows that are so
popular on the variety stage. Other plays may be had
with all scenery, characters, &c. Obtainable only from
The Union Manufacturing Co.
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne. ,i


a
V,
r
«\
The Best Treatment
for Itching Scalps, Dan-
druff and Falling Hair
To allay itching and irritation of the scalp,
prevent dry, thin and falling hair, remove
crusts scales and dandruff, and promote the
growth and beauty of the hair, the following
special treatment is most effective, agreeable
and economical. On retiring, comb the hair
out straight all around, then begin at the side
and make a parting, gently rubbing Cuticura
ointment into the parting with a bit of soft
flannel held over the end of the finger. Anoint
additional partings about half an inch apart
until the whole scalp has been treated, the pur-
pose being to get the Cuticura ointment on the
scalp skin rather than on the hair. The
next morning, shampoo with Cuticura soap
and hot water Shampoos alone may be
used as often as agreeable, but once or
twice a month is generally sufficient for
this special treatment for women’s hair. Cuti-
cura Soap and Ointment are sold throughout
the world. A liberal sample of each, with
32-page booklet on the care and treatment
of the skin and scalp, sent post-free. Address
E. Towns & Co., Dept. L. Sydney, N. S. W.
Puts Stomach,
Liver and Bowels
in Fine Condition
To promptly end the misery of consti-
pation torpid liver, sick headache, indi-
gestion, dizziness and nausea, you must
use CARTER’S LITTLE
LIVER PILLS. They
never fail—that’s why
millions use them.
Vim,vigor, vitality,
tnd a clear com-
plexion are the
result of their
use. You
need them.
CARTES!
L
snid
aaAi
31-Llli
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
The
GENUINE
must bear
signature
9
/^HerYoutt^
TkB.AfcLENJ
Mexican
WALNUT a TAIN
for Grey Hair
If THE
•aly permanent awJ really satisfactory
ONE SOLUTION Hair Stain
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES
OURCAT-
alouuk
illustrated
■throughout
-—■will he
posted free to those desirous of
shopping by mail. We sell, carriage
'paid, Jewellery. Watches. Gramo-
phones, Guns, Novelties of all kinds,
many unobtainable elsewhere,
, Rubber Stamps. Music. Musical In-
struments, etc., etc. Sole agents for Wilson s Ear
"rums for Deafnesß Ramey’s Medicator fos Catarrh
this paper to:— _
-STAR NOVFITY COMPANY, 229 Collins Str-ft. Melbannif.
ASTHMA CURE
GRINIAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Eiffletjty in .xnectoration. Aelhma.KervousCoiigfca.
?** € Pl?®? neB8 and O Jrom^Lateiy
relierod by GRIM AULT <fe doi" INDIAN ClGAfi-
i crTlt *. Bold by all Chemists.
"Linseed Compound.” The “Stockport Rem-
edy for Coughs 4 Colds. Of 40 years’ proven efficacy.
Was Bald
And came into possession of the
secret of a Genuine Hair Grower.
My Hair Grew to its Present Length in 40 Days.
Mr. CRAVEN
BURLEIGH
From a recent
photograph.
THIS ANNOUNCEMENT is of special interest to every MAN
AND WOMAN who has previously tried other HAIR-GROWING PREPARA-
TIONS. If you have HAD NO SUCCESS WITH OTHERS, please write to
me. I REFRAIN from expressing any personal opinion as to other prepara-
tions, but point to the vast array of letters received from patrons, who,
HAVING TESTED numerous advertised compounds, washes, etc., without
benefit, used my pomade, and FOUND IT TO BE EXACTLY AS REPRE-
SENTED —A TRUE HAIR GROWER. It is always prepared in accordance
with the formula with which my name has become famous, and which is
endorsed by NOTED ANALYTICAL EXPERTS OF ENGLAND, GERMANY,
FRANCE AND THE UNITED STATES, it can be shown by many letters
which 1 receive that, IN A FEW DAYS AFTER THE FIRST APPLICATION,
THE HAIR BEGINS TO GROW, AND CONTINUES UNTIL A HEALTHY,
STRONG, PERMANENT GROWTH IS MANIFEST.
Those who are troubled with falling hair, dandruff, baldness, itching scalp, etc., know full well
the humiliation that they cause. There is no need, however, of such conditions. These troubles can
he quickly overcome by my True Hair Grower.
10,000 Free Trial Boxes
My offer is a straightforward, honest proposition from a business man to sensible men and women.
The merit of my TRUE HAIR GROWER is in the preparation itself, not in the advertising. If you
will write to me I will send you a TRIAL BOX of the JOHN CRAVEN BURLEIGH TRUE HAIR
GROWER. I make this offer because I want YOU to know just what my True Hair Grower will do.
I was bald, it. cured me, and it has cured thousands of others. Package will be sent securely sealed
in plain wrapper.
BALDNESS, DANDRUFF, ITCHING, ETC.
FREE TRIAL COUPON.
Cut out this Coupon, and send with 3 stamps, to cover postage, etc., and I will
immediately post a trial box of my True Hair Grower.
JOHN CRAVEN BURLEIGH, DEPT. 7, 192 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Because the Pody-Building Power of Bovril has been
proved to be from 10 to 20 times the amount taken.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices In
England—
1/I*. 2/9 & 4/6. Hade in England.
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks ot
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHB, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
‘he cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
DIARRHEA and simple DYSENTERY.
Choose a “ Swan.”
The comfort of it, the sureness, ease,
sweetness —each and every character-
istic deserves notice. The “Swap”
Fountpen pleases the most impatient,
exacting writer—those who expect
more out of a pen than others have
given. We can satisfy such and win
their enthusiastic recommendation.
Every hand suited exactly.
H
“Swan Safety”
Can’t
Blot, Miss,
or Scratch !
Catalogue free on request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London and
Branches.
Sold by all Stationers
and Jewellers.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only): J. A. BURKb 5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George St., Sylney.
THE WHISKEY OF INDIVIDUAL CHARM.
EXQUISITELY MELLOW, LIGHT AND DIGESTIVE,
Whiskey
★ ★ ★
IRISH
For Particular People,
Bottled by E. & J. Burke themselves.
Business, Robbery, etc
“Hamer”: The man or woman who owns a little
capital with which to dig out a fortune is often an
amazingly simple creature. In a Sydney court the
other day a case cropped up in which a man had
“invested” £3O in a partnership. The firm was to
manufacture and sell a patent cabinet “to do away
with servant girls.” How the cabinet was going to
abolish Mary Ellen was not explained to him. A
cabinet can’t fry chops or roast water. He didn't
even see the cabinet, but was impressed by a photo-
graph which his partner said was it. And he didn’t
get a receipt for his money. A still more amazing
thing about the innocence of men of this type is that,
while fairly intelligent and wide-awake citizens have
a struggle for a crust, the other sort manages to
get the small sums which they lose through buying
cabinets which are to get up early and cook the
breakfast. Perhaps they are too slow to see the
possibilities of money-spending that fly past their
doors, and so one insensible copper after another
accumulates on their hands as do on a
wreck. A wreck isn’t bright or acquisitive, yet it
can accumulate more barnacles than a Rockefeller.
“Tail-Shaft”: Seems as if the “biggering” of
steamships for the Suez trip to Australia has about
reached its limit for the present. The P. & 0. has
mounted in tonnage from the Moldavia s 10,000,
through the Macedonia’s 10,500 and the Malwa s
11 000 to the Medina’s and the Maloja s 12,500;
and the Orient line has pretty well reached its top
with the 13,000-ton Orama. The Suez ditch is only
<>9ft deep, and isn’t likely to be more for years to
come and until it is more the really huge chaps
will ’have to come by the Cape. The White Star
held the Cape record with 12,000-tonners. Then
came the 15,000-ton Nestor and Ulysses; and now,
while the 18,500-ton Ceramic is already on its way
to Australia, a couple of 20,000-ton Blue Funnelers
are reported as laid down. Sydney will have to
hurrv up with that proposed 40ft. low-water entrance-
channel. Melbourne, on the other hand, vvill have
to commit commercial suicide. And when Melbourne
commits commercial suicide, and is found lying dead
among its samples in Elinders-street, with its throat
cut and its head blown off, and an empty poison
bottle in one hand, and its gun in its other hand,
and a look of terror on its absent face, the local
police will probably decide that it perished of vanity
and egotism and dandruff and swelled head and a
shocking lack of foresight, combined with rush of
pomp to the brain. And incidentally that it died
of thirst through insufficient salt water in the
harbor. *
* *
“Don O ” • There’s at least one fragment of the
country that will bless the Fisher Government for
introducing the handy 10s. note. This insect is
the counter jumper. That little gold wafer, the
half-sovereign, produces a heap of high-grade per-
ur- in the stores; “I gave you a sovereign I’m
re it was a sovereign. T had only one gold coin
i my purse, and it was a sovereign,” swears Mrs.
Ruck Tones Next to the half-sovereign as a periury-
produder comes that useless half-crown All Mrs. Ruck
’roms's florins are half-crowns, and she swears all
shophands are thieves because they won’t recognise
It Meanwhile Mr. Ruck -Tones, in his more ob-
fuscated moments, is liable to give away a sovereign
for a half-sovereign any night at the club, to the
gain of a much more affluent class than the one
wtrieh Mrs. Ruck-J'. oppresses.
CLOUDS AND SHADOWS AND PEEZNESS!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Drawings and photographs can give you no real
m c ° n tour of the country and its charms,”
said Mr. Griffin. “The morning and evening lights
at Canberra are wonderful. The shadows of the
L ouas andthe mists as they cross the mountains are
vet ?, indeed. It is a grand site for a
capital city. From the statistics as to rain-
iail which 1 have seen, and judging by the flow of
water in the Cotter River just now, / should estimate
tnere ought to be twice as much water available as
the city will need.”— S. M. Herald.
rhe morning and the evening lights—
The trees, the scenery, and sights—
The girls and boys in bathing-tiglits
Are grand—just grand 1
The prospects and the aspects, too,
Are. fair and marvellously blue ;
And green and brown and every hue
Outstand—outstand!
And, then, the fine statistics show
Exactly what one wants to know,
And how to look and where to go,
At once— at once !
They prove without the slightest doubt
That, when the dust is not about,
The bull frogs raise a joyous shout
For bunce—plain bunce 1
The rabbits and the native bears
Perambulate in friendly pairs,
Discussing Dryberra affairs
With force— strong force;
And, now and then, they stop to All
Their gaze with some hump-shouldered hill
That feeds the Cotter’s mighty rill—•
Of course—of course !
They peer, and pry, and plan a crown,
A City that shall stagger Brown
And Jones, and anger every town
Extant—extant;
They show where wharves and docks will be,
And where the Fleet shall put to sea,
And merchants cultivate with glee
The Peezness Plant!
And then they say: “The Architect—
The Layer-Out whom we expect,
Will be here shortly to collect
New views-— true views
Of all the bush and rocks around,
And all the dry and dusty ground
Whereon Australia has found
Glad IOU’s!”
“He will define the great Exchange,
The Opera, the Rifle Range,
The place where dogs that have the mange
Are killed —just killed !
And he will set the station there
And rear our Parliament in air,
And make the City gay and fair,
And filled— quite filled 1
“And clouds and shadows, too, will come;
And pubs wherein they sell hot rum ;
And drapers’ shops where things should hum
Will be designed ;
And lovely parks, and dim green glades.
And banks with marble colonnades,
And grocers-shops of various grades
The world will find 1
“It will be his peculiar care
To lay them out, both here and there;
Though now the place is dry and bare,
And though no trace
Of water permanent abides,
The Plan—the Winning Plan—provides
That every curve and angle hides
A Popu lace l”
The morning and the evening lights,
Of which the Morning Herald skites,
Have got Australia dazed to rights—
They make us pant 1
O scenery and dust and hills—
O wild W T est wind that blasts and kills —
With all your charm, you can’t pay bills
Like Peezness Plant l
N.S.W.
PETRONIUS EARBITER.


The Recognised Leading House for all
SMOKERS & SHAVERS’ REQUISITES
PIPES
H
I
G
H
mi
*2*
<•0
*l9
C
R
A
D
E
S.N.lj. Pipes, made from finest quality old
briar root, with superior hand-cut Para vul-
canite mouthpieces. Heavy Silver mounts.
All shapes 3/- each (post free)
“Goudron,” finest quality
Natural Block
Meerschaum Pipes.
THE
SWEETEST
AND
COOLEST
SMOKING
PIPES EVER PRODUCED.
Para Vulcanite Mouthpieces, in case,
8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 14/6, 16/6, 21/-
each (post free).
Natural Pressed Amber Mouthpieces,
in case,
12/6, 14/6, 16/6, 18/6, 25/- each
(post free).
CIGARS
QUALITE
DE LUXE.
“Golden Key”
Cigars, of exquisite
aroma and infinite
charm.
The Standard
of Luxury
in Smoking.
Put up in cedar cabinets containing—
-25 cigars, 11/6; 50 cigars, 22/6
(post free).
Sample boxes of 5 cigars, 2/6 (post
free).
CIGARETTES.
Delightful, Fascinating
“Three Witches”
Cigarettes, made from
selected, sun-ripe
Virginian Tobacco.
Finest quality.
5/- per 100 (post
free;.
Jhree Witches
VIRGINIA
(jcASETTES
TOBACCOS.
“Sunol,” highest grade Virginian, awarded 4
gold medals. Dark or Light. In plug or
cut, 6/- per lb. (post free).
“L/Onus” Smoking Mixture, choicest tobaccos,
skilfully blended. Put up in 2oz. tins.
8/6 per lb. (post free).
Tobacco Pouches
H
A
N
D
Y
rv
ssk
m
£2
c
0
M
P
A
G
T
Wallet Pouch, Split Calf 2/9 each
„ ~ Real Morocco .. 3/6 „
~ „ Calf Crocodile .. 4/6 „
„ „ Gazelle 5/- „
„ „ Velvet Calf 6/6 »
POCKET LIGHTERS.
The “Sunol” Pocket
Lighter. Every smoker
should have one. Simple
in construction. Nothing
to get out of order.
2/- each (post free).
CIGAR and CIGARETTE
HOLDERS.
Amber Cigar Holders, silver rim,
in case, 6/6, 7/6 each.
Amber Cigar Holders, gold rim,
in case, 10/6, 11/6 each.
Amber Cigarette Holders, silver
rim, in case 4/- 4/6 each.
Amber Cigarette Holders, gold rim, in
case • ••• 7/6, 8/6 each.
SHAVING SETS.
N
O
T
H
I
N
G
B
E
T
T
E
R
Shaving Sets, comprising 1 renowned C. 8.8.
Razor, 1 C. 8.8. Razor Strop, 1 Badger Hair
Shaving Brush, and stick Williams’s Soap—
-18/6 (post free).
RAZORS
R
A
R
E
Q
u
A
L
1
T
Y
The “Hitite” Razor, pronounced bv experts
to be absolutely perfect. None to
equal it. Kept in good order for 2 years,
free of charge—-
Vulcanite Handle 7/6 each (post free).
Ivory Handle 10/6 each (post free).
SAFETY RAZORS.
The Celebrated “Auto Strop” Safety
Razor, complete with 12 blades and strop,
in leather case 22/6 (post free).
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
Head Depot: Haymarket, Sydney
Branches : CITY, SUBURBS and NEWCASTLE.
The First
Successful
Self-Filling
Fountain
Pen.
A7A:
Always the Leader, Without a Peer.
Every shop should have our line of Automatic Self=
Filling Fountain Pens. “The A. A.” is the one
pen for which there is no substitute. Its self-filling
featitre is unique and so far superior to any other on
the market that it is the pen for all.
Fitted with i4kt. gold pens, any style or size, in plain, chased
or mottled holders, or mounted in sterling silver filigree, gold-
filled and mother of pearl —handsome and serviceable.
The cut herein also shows the newly patented “A.A."Clip
attached to the cap of the pen. It holds perfectly firm, and
can be attached almost instantly.
If you cannot secure “ The A.A.” Automatic Self-
Filling Fountain Pen, with the “A.A.” Clip at your shop,
write for prices to
RYAN, LEWIS (SL CO. Pty., Ltd.,
521 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sole Agents for Australasia and New Zealand of the
ARTHUR A. WATERMAN & CO., New York, U.S.A.
NOT CONNECTED WITH THE L. E. WATERMAN CO. [i
MARK
EJade in
England
Underwear
ARK
aavaJ.
The “ BIRD MARK” on your Underwear
is a guarantee that the garments are made from
the finest Australian Lambswool and Cotton,
and in some qualities Silk is added.
The garments also have patented improve-
ments and fit the figure perfectly.
The most perfect underwear for hot weather
is the “BIRD MARK” Merino and Silk
Underwear, it will stand hard wear yet light in
weight.
Sold by all Drapers and Outfitters.
Wholesale only :
I. & R. MORLEY and GEO. BRETTLE & CO.,
London, E.C
Ask for THE ‘ BIRD MARK ' MERINO UNDERWEAR
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co, Ltd,
, SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1913 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. How to Get R ich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, is.
How to Danck, is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Trick s, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquk sm Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Is. y osted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handyiiook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Games,
Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life.
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Per bonal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu;, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain fop. the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces ,Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Dis ieases of Horses,
Is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. ’French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syi tups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. Ho use Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is 6d.
1
u
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
I«-BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.-*!
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS-LOVE
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, ’is 3d
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. The White Slave Traffic, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Evert Man His Own Schoolmaster
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying: more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. $O~ Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
♦
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, l9
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d post. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wipe’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3/6. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems, complete,
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the
King, Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover- 9
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is -d-
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post.
INGBRSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 2s. HOW TO READ HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post tree.
Bennarr Macfadden’s Works, all at 5s posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
ls2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, Is post. 100 akw
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus. , leatner
uound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and «
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universai
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, ciotn
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DA I.


ARMS COVERED WITH
Eczem
m
SPECIALISTS COMPLETELY BAFFLED—THOUGHT
SHE WAS INCURABLE—ANOTHER ZAM-BUK TRIUMPH.
“n
j Y cure of eczema by Zam-Buk is little short
of a miracle,” says Mrs. M. McNaughton,
of “Hastings,” Cashel Street, Christchurch,
New Zealand, “and for the benefit of other
sufferers I want to let you know of my experience.
I suffered from eczema, which I believe is one
of the most dreaded skin complaints, for six
long years. My arms broke out all over, and
the itching irritation and
pain was almost unbear-
, able; the complaint also
spread over my body.
“I consulted doctors and
spent large sums of
money, trying to get
relief for my trouble,
without success. I
also tried other rem-
edies supposed to be
cures for my com-
plaint, but these likewise failed to do me the least bit of good.
“As I have always taken great interest in public functions, I felt
my position most keenly, as I was unable to attend these owing to my
disfigured appearance. In fact, I was ashamed to be seen.
“When in America, I was treated by several skin Specialists, and
although with their treatment the trouble would disappear for a short
while, it would again return severer than ever. I really thought I
would never be rid of this terrible eczema, when I read of a case of;
similar severity to my own that had been cured by Zam-Buk, and I at
once determined to give this balm a trial.
“I persevered with Zam-Buk, for the first few applications soothed
the awful itching, and in a short time the eruptions were cleansed and
healed quite perfectly. After I had used three pots of Zam-Buk I
found myself completely cured, and at time of writing it is over two
years since Zam-Buk proved so beneficial to me, and I have not had
any return of the trouble, so it is apparent that the cure is complete
and permanent.
“You may use this letter in any way you please for the benefit of
other sufferers from this dreaded skin complaint, and anyone suffering
as I suffered cannot do better than give Zam-Buk a trial.”
THE EVER-REApy HEALER & SKIN-CURE.
g
Zam-Buk is excellent
for outs, burns,
eczema, ulcers, bad
legs, ringworms,
rash, barcoo rot, sore
feet and other skin
troubles, Of allstores
and chemists at 1/6
and 3/6 per pot, or
post free direct from
Zam - Buk Manufac-
turing Co., 39 Pitt
St., Sydney. Ceta pot
to-day and always
keep it handy. a
THE
QUESTION of the DAY.
The question of to-day,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding* day is
have: you used pears* soap ?
If you Have not, you Have not
done your duty by your skin and
complexion. If, on the otHer Hand
—tHat is, on HotH Hands, and on tHe
face, and on tHe skin generally —you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
Happy, for you will Have done tHe
best tHat possibly can be done tor
tHe skin’s HealtH and beauty. There
can be no question about that.
PEARS Has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years.
PEARS
MatcHless for the Complexion
The Ocean Singer.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I HAD just returned, and I had proposed
to crown a royal time by giving my
partner Howard the shock of his life.
I knew his habits, and it was £lOOO
to a gooseberry that he would sit down to
dinner at 6.45 p.m. I had my latch-key,
and I would let myself into the bachelor
home unobserved, and while Howard was
busy on his soup, lean over his shoulder and
howl at him. So I crowded on my evening
suit, jumped into a cab, got to the scene of
action, and walked through the door just in
time to see Millie, the maid, vanish in the
direction of the kitchen.
I had forgotten the mirror, and as I
stepped lightly into the room Howard
looked at the glass opposite. I stopped,
appalled at the change in the man’s fea-
tures. Instead of the happy, round, red
face of my old pard was a drawn, haggard
countenance with the hair turning grey at
the temples. And he, when he saw me,
whom he believed to be some thousands ot
miles away, standing silently behind him, in
evening dress —which was most unusual for
me —took me to be a spectre come to convey
the knowledge that I was dead and show'
him a copy of my tombstone. So we looked
steadily at one another in the glass. Then
as I stepped forward he swung round and
held out his hand.
“Flesh and blood, after all!” he said.
“What did you think I was?”
“A ghost, old man. I’m glad you’re
back.”
“What have you been doing to yourself?
You’re looking a bit fagged.”
He was on his feet, bustling round with
the glasses; and he seemed for a moment
to be his old self again. We drank to our
reunion. Millie set for me, and we sat
down to table once more, and for a while
Howard forgot his troubles, whatever they
were, as he listened to my brief sketch of
my travels and of the heroic deeds I didn’t
do. Then I declared my innings closed and
asked him to get busy.
“Well, business is all right. We got
taken down for a few' thousand by Monsen ;
but we got it all back and more in the in-
crease of business. So we’re no worse off.”
“And where is Monsen?” I asked.
“He was doing five years’ stretch. I
thought he’d have got the benefit of his
previous good character, struck 18 months,
and got the first offender’s ticket. But the
Judge jumped on him with both feet and
handed it out heavy and hard. I was sorry
for him. Now I wish he had been given a
life sentence and then beheaded.”
“Well, don’t worry about that. I hope
that hasn’t got on your nerves. When a
man starts to dip, he’s put his soul on the
table, so to speak, and usually the odds are
not worth the risk.”
“They weren’t in Monsen's case. He
lasted exactly 17 weeks. What we’d have
lost had he kept going for 17 years Lord
knows; for he hit up £3380 what little time
be was going.”
“Anything recovered?”
“Not a bean ! Said his wife bolted with
it. Police asked me to put up the cost of
bringing her back. Not me! Why throw
good beans after bad?”
“Ever see her?”
“Not before the smash,” he said shortly.
Then he stopped. It seemed that he had
seen her after the smash.
“Well, now tell me what’s worrying you?”
“I’m in love —that’s all. Dammit!”
* * * *
I sat on my bed, and looked lovingly
round the walls. Howard, a bit more cheer-
ful, sank into an easy chair and put his feet
up as was his wont to do. Then he dis-
carded his cigar, lit his pipe, and leaning
back commenced :
t “It was the evening of the day I won the
Championship of the Pacific with the Aero-
lite. I all but missed the race fooling round
trying to get Monsen treated as a first
offender—heavens ! he’s a twentieth offender,
I think—and the starting flag was falling
as I dashed for the line. Result; I started
about 20yds. behind scratch. But the old
boat was on her mettle ; and after a devil of
a struggle with a French boat from Noumea
I landed the bacon. After the race I cut
from the crowd and got into Bela-
sario’s cafe, with my clothes still stiff with
salt from the spray and my hair thick with
it. I didn’t tvant champagne—l was drunk
already with that wild rush through the
water. I wanted something to eat in rest-
ful surroundings, and got to a corner table
decorated with roses from Belasario’s own
garden, and waited to see what the Lord
would send me.
“He sent a waitress w r ith a demeanor of
mingled hauteur and affability-—a lovely
girl with coppery-colored burnished hair
which threw back the light disdainfully and
arms that were masterpieces.
“But it was her bearing and her voice
that took me. She whispered the word
‘consomme’ as though it were a caress ; her
waiting was a splendid art ; her serving of
boiled fish a rite; her passing of the wine
ah endearment; and the whole an alluring
ceremony by a splendid priestess.”
I sat on the bed and gaped helplessly. I
had known Howard in curious moods, heard
wild bursts of weird eloquence —but never
anything like this.
“I was sitting there, chewing a stick of
celery, when she came along with the bill,
and as she folded it up and put it under the
edge of my plate she looked at me with a
smile and almost whispered :
“ ‘So you won !’
“ ‘You bet!’ I said. ‘But it was a close
thing. That Frenchman would have beaten
me had he not shipped a big sea.’ t
“‘What was it like? I love motor boats,
she breathed. 1
“After that I’ve no very clear notion of
what I said; but I know about the next
thing I remember was that I was taking
ner in a taxi to where the Aerolite was
moored. She looked more alluring than
ever in a long, fawn-tinted cloak with her
coppery hair bunched up under a dainty
little soft felt hat. In less than no time we
were rocking out through the Heads into
the moonlit ocean. A great sea, green-tipped
in the moonlight, smashed on the bows and
P°ured overhead in a cloud of spray.
“rnu ra i. n h ow canopy !’ she exclaimed.
-*- ae wind came right down in our teeth.
±ne Aerolite sprang skyward like a wild
tmng, trembled a moment on the windy
n • moon lit water, and then dived
m vLu , in a purple hollow, all strewn
W1 ,i broken naoonbeams.
W e had been through it all scores of
times, old man; but I never realised the
gorgeous loveliness of it till that night. As
we dived down Miranda (that is her name)
clung to me and gasped. You know what it
lfe - V ke down there —the breathless stillness
ot it all; the peace of Nirvana. Then the
heave of the water, the wild bound skyward
again over the foaming ridge that formed
'n?i? rin ? watery crater we were in.
u? ri PP e d wave screamed; the wind
whipped us across the faces, and blew down
into our lungs. The madness of the
tumbling sea fell on her, and she sang, sang
like a siren and there was nothing in my
. ears.
He sighed. When he had finished sighing
terribly.
lie bounded and rolled through miles of
this till instinct and the petrol gauge told
me it was time to turn. If the run out had
been glorious that homeward was equally
so. Gosh ! It was great to see the white-
maned horses of the Lord toiling heavily in
front, and to overtake them, and rip through
them, leaving them screaming with rage at
the presumption of man and his many in-
ventions. Then those frowning Heads rose
up like the gates of dreamland or perdition
or some dashed old place, and we passed
through them into the ordinary world
again.”
Howard’s mood was a quaint mixture of
poetry and blasphemy. I couldn’t get the
key to his emotions.
“That was the start of it. I became be-
witched, enchanted. Life without her be-
came impossible; and one night I asked her
to marry me.”
“And she refused,” I interrupted.
“She did. How did you know?”
“I remember your face the moment I saw
it in the glass. The girl was wise!”
“Why?”
“She knew it was not the girl Miranda
your fickle nature was in love with at all.
It was the singing siren of the sea. In
breeze and moonlight, singing in the sea,
she’s an idea. Married and in a home she
will be a siren no longer—just an ordinary
woman ordering grilled chops for breakfast.
And you don’t want an ordinary woman—
you’ll want a singing siren all the time. No,
marriage would have been a hideous disil-
lusionment for both of you. The girl is
right. Don’t dream of it.”
Howard’s reply, I regret to say, was un-
printable. Also it was intensely picturesque.
“Now, if you are wise,” I went on, “you
will keep these delightful memories in all
their picturesque beauty by breaking it
right off. It is obvious that this is the
time to break it off, for if it is done now
Miranda will be to you always young,
sirenic, and associated with music, moonlit
seas, and ecstasy. Marry her, and the day
will come when you will wonder if the stout,
not to say shapeless, party with the com-
monplace face waddling beside you can pos-
sibly have been that lovely girl. It’s cruel.
Don’t do it!”
When Howard had exhausted himself by
the blowing off process I continued :
“The trouble is that you are not fitted with
domestic affection any more than you are
with a Westinghouse brake. This is the
first time you have been in love —and it is
with a picturesque phantom and not a real
woman. The man who is fitted with
domestic affection grows old with his wife.
He is never disillusioned, because he never
had any illusions to dis. You’ve got about
the biggest swag of the article I ever came
across. As a matter of truth, didn’t she
tell you the same thing in a different and
less direct way?”
“She did! She did!” Then he helped
himself to another whisky. “But she ad-
mitted later on that she said it only to
cover her real reason. And that was, that
she was Monsen’s sister; and it was
through him being in gaol she had to go
waiting. She didn’t find out exactly who
I was till we’d both fallen in love, she said.”
“That was rough!” I remarked foolishly.
Inwardly I also thought that it was a trifle
hollow, not to say bogus.
Howard wiped his unwise forehead.
“I explained I had already done my best
to get him released as a first offender and
failed. She told me the family had done the
same, but the law people said no restitution
had been made. Were restitution made he
would probably be released at once, as he
had already served some months. I saw
the chance. I gave her £3500 to make
restitution with and a cheque for £2OO so
that she could take him away and give him
a fresh start, and I threw in a hint of
further assistance. Could any blighted
jackass have done more?”
I admitted that it seemed to be the
supreme jackass act.
“Next time I saw her she was radiant.
She had received the promise of a release ;
and in our delight we went out and picked
our furniture, selected a house out Cran-
brooke way and fixed the day for the wed-
ding.”
“Then everything’s all right then!” I said
in a staggered sort of way.
“No, it’s all wrong—wrong to Hades. He
was released, and she took him up the line,
saying she would be away for a week or so,
nursing him. That night, before she went
to meet him at the railway station, was the
last time I saw her.”
“What happened? Accident? Sudden
death? Unitarianism ?”
“No! She was his wife instead of his
sister—that’s all. They had pulled some
other strings too, and he had been released
on general principles. We didn’t get a cent
—only a bad cheque by way of refund. The
blamed thing purported to come from the
Crown Law Department, but it might as
well have come from a peanut barrow.
Monsen stole my money, and then he got
away with the money I gave his wife so
that she could refund my own money to
myself. And she wrote me from some
blamed old Portuguese island saying she
was sorry. One of her bronze hairs had
dropped into the letter, too.”
“What are you going to do?” I asked
feebly. „
“Get drunk and eat a policeman,”
thundered Howard.
C. A. JEFFRIES.


KIDNEY DISEASE PREYS ON THE MIND
The patient who has to keep getting op in the
night knows there is something seriously wrong with
his kidneys.
It preys on his mind, for kidney disease is well
known to be one of the hardest diseases to cure.
Patients are, therefore, very apt to grow disheart-
ened, but much may he done, even in advanced cases,
by careful dieting, and a thorough course of Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills taken in regular doses after
each meal with a glass of water. This flushes out the
kidneys and urinary system, and disposes of the
excess uric acid, which is the great cause of :
Gravel, Urinary Disorders,
Distress in Relieving* the
Bladder, Too free a flow.
Dropsy, Backache,
Pains in the Loins,
Heart Attacks, Lumbago,
Dizziness and Faintness,
Unnatural Drowsiness,
Rheumatism, Sciatica.
NOTE. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are not
for constipation, or disorders of the liver, stomach,
and bowels. They are solely for the kidneys and
bladder, and regulate the urinary system like laxative
medicines regulate the bowels. They are safe for
gj!—men and women, old and }oung.
Every
Picture
Tells a
Story”
'/SJ
m
m
¥
Tired out from morning till night —
Head had—heart had —rheumatic & dropsical —
Have you suspected your kidneys?
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold
by all Chemists and Stores at 2/9 per
bottle (6 bottles, 15/3), or posted free
by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
Sydney People Cured
A SYDNEY WOMAN.
Mrs. W. P. Ritzau, 11 Myrtle Street, North Sydney,
says: “For years I have been a great sufferer from kidney
disease. I have been treated by doctors and in hospitals,
and have been tortured with operations. After fifteen
months in one hospital I came out a thorough cripple. 1
was so ill I was advised to go back into the hospital, hut
my husband would not let me go. I was recommended by
a friend to use Doan’s Hacjkache Kidney Pills, and com-
menced using them, carefully following the directions. These
pills have cured me. I can now get about and do my work,
and the pain has completely left me. My cure is wonderful,
for mine was really a very bad case. Since my cure my
uncle has used the remedy, and they have effected a complete
cure in his case also. Our two cures prove that. Doans
Backache Kidney Tills are a positive cure for kidney
trouble.”
Two years later Mrs. Ritzau says: “T am pleased to sit'
that I have been free of kidney trouble since Doan s Back-
ache Kidney Pills cured me over two years ago.”
A SYDNEY MAN.
Mr. Joseph Abrahams, of 495 Elizabeth Street, Sydney,
says: “I have been suffering for over forty years from kidney
disease. I have had dreadful attacks, and have had to stay
in bed for a fortnight at a time. I suffered intense agony,
and spent hundreds of pounds on doctors and medicines, nn
obtained no relief whatever. A friend of mine advised me
to take Doan's Backache Kidney Pills, and I got some ana
commenced to use them, carefully following the direction..
T did not have much faith in them, having tried so ® a ? -
remedies without success. However, Doan's Backac
Kidney Pills proved the exception ; they cured me, and •
hope many will benefit by my experience, and gn'® ‘
remedy a trial. Hhould any sufferer call on me I shall
pleased to give fuller particulars of my thorough cure.
Two years later Mr. Abrahams says: “Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills cured me of backache and kidney trouble o
two years ago. and T have been well ever since. Belore
took Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills I was a terrible sune _. p
with my back, but now I am absolutely free of every a
and pain.”
DOAN'S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
The Musterers’ Camp.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WE were lifting 1000 head of cattle
from Bulgroo (W.Q.), but arrived
there a week before they were
ready. So we pitched camp by the side of
a scrub-sheltered lagoou on the run. Before
us was a clear plain, white and waving with
Mitchell grass, wlipre the final drafting was
to take place, and we were to take delivery.
Behind us was a wild and luxuriant tract
of country, dotted with clumps of brigalow,
long stretches of lignum, serpentine lagoons,
broad marshes and thick scrubs, culminating
in Thunda Mountains, which sheltered
thousands of wild cattle that only came
down on to the lowlands at night.
The greater part of Bulgroo was un-
fenced, and half the cattle on it had never
seen a yard. In deference to the notoriety
they had gained as rushers on the road,
drovers who lifted them accepted no respon-
sibility for losses. Some town drovers about
a month before started with 500 of the
beauties. When they got to Eurangella,
three days’ journey, they had 125. These
got boxed with a neighboring herd and were
abandoned. In a day or two they were back
on their own run, huge gaps in the inter-
vening fences marking their passage.
“How did you come to lose them?” one
of the men was subsequently asked.
“No trouble at all to lose them,” he
answered. “They were a bit too fiery about
the heels.”
Tfiere were six men in our camp, includ-
ing a youthful cook, whose name was Sam
Slingsby. Of the 14 horses we possessed
eight were unbroken colts. These we had
to break in to take with us on the road.
Five of the six men enjoyed the prospect.
They had been born and bred on the western
cattle runs; in fact, the creaking saddle was
about the only cradle they had known in
their infancy. They were crack riders,
smart all-round bushmen, bristling with
animal spirits and good humor. My dubi-
ous remarks anent managing half-bred
scrubbers in thick timber on such mounts
only made these chaps more hilarious than
usual. To go on the roads with wild cattle
and mounted on brumbies was their ideal of
enjoyment.
We built a sapling yard, and the first
task every morning was to get them into it.
It took our combined force, two dogs, a
quantity of small timber, and much noise to
accomplish this. Four of us were on foot,
and we closed round, performing like so
many aborigines at a battue. There was
one brute that was full to the brim of objec-
tions, and he made it a practice to break
back three or four times every morning. He
demolished our yard several times before he
was caught, and he smashed through it
twice with the tackle on. Again he tried
to jump out, but landed on his head, and a
heavy sapling fell across his neck. When
he got up the hobbles were on him.
A couple were saddled the second morn-
ing, but the next day saw all six listed for
riding exercise. Sam came out in a cook’s
cap, and selected a long-tailed iron-grey,
that being the most docile-looking of the
uncivilised quadrupeds. But he was a de-
ceptive animal, for bis would-be rider was
no sooner on than he was off again, throw-
ing a somersault before he dropped among
the tussocks. Samuel wasn’t much of a
rider, but he was young and ambitious. He
was always ready to throw off his apron
for a morning seat on a buckjumper. He
averaged two busters a day for the week.
Still he said he was “getting on.”
My mount was a tall chestnut, which
only' pigjumped at the start, and I was one
of those who laughed when Sam threw a
somersault out of his saddle. I set off
confidently to help run the horse back. Half
a mile from camp, when I had worked up
a swinging canter behind the runaway—
which the chestnut was eager to join—an
emu sprang out of a lignum bush close in
front of me. The horse nropped and
wheeled about sharply, then gave two flying
bucks —and the second animal was riderless.
I carried five emu eggs back to camp in my
hat.
Trusting to that distance which lends
enchantment to the view and the quickness
with which the buster happened, I explained
that I was dismounting for those eggs when
the chestnut sprang away from me. B.y-
and-bye, having remounted, I was slung
clean out of the saddle before all eyes. Only
the cook laughed; the veterans rode round
and round with straight faces, peering at
the ground. Presently one asked ; “Where’s
the nest?” It was evident that my emu
was a failure.
We schooled the horses every morning,
and in the afternoon we shot ducks and
pigeons, and caught fish. We had good
times until the musterers arrived. They
came with 4000 head of mixed cattle, among
which were many clean skins that had been
cut off among the foothills. We were now
25 in camp, with a hundred horses. These
were caught in the open, and every morning
saw half a dozen bucking performances
before the cavalcade rode out. The muster-
ing was not yet completed, so we tailed the
mob all day while the Bulgroo men were
after more cattle, and watched them at
night, five men on each watch. It was cold
weather, being near the end of May. and
with fingers and toes numbed, riding round
hour after hour, we watched the stars rising
and setting as only drovers and astronomers
watch them. These western cattlemen know
the stars as they know their native hills.
They lie under them and ride under them
through the long nights year after year.
The first night with our big mob was wet.
There was only one tent, which the mus-
terers’ cook used as a storehouse. He was a
tall, silent man, always in spotless white
apron and cap. He wore top boots as well,
for he had much mud to wade through round
the tables, which consisted of several bags
thrown down on the gro=s. He eyed the
addition to liis huge family with disfavor,
but he served us well. He gave us yeast
bread —huge loaves of it baked in a camp-
oven, roast beef and corned beef, meat and
fruit pies, curry, vegetables, cakes and
brownie, plum pudding and ]am roll, blanc-
mange, custards (with emu eggs), butter,
jam and condiments. He took a. pride in his
table, but compliments only elicited a grunt.
We had trained horses for night w T ork—-
and needed them. Four thousand head take
some stopping when they rush, and these,
with the restless wild scrubbers among them,
required little to set them going. Indeed
they hounded off without any apparent cause
whatever. They were camped in the clear,
but it was a miserable night, dark and wet,
and the big blaze by the tent was only a dull
glow through the drizzle. Sam and 1 were
riding together, which we had no right to be
doing: but the mob was so quiet and con-
tented-looking, a few standing up here and
there, as there always are on a camp. Then
suddenly we heard the well-known sound of
the stampede, like the roar of a cataract, or
the deep rumble of distant thunder. The
4000 were up and off before we had time to
turn round. There was a quick tightening
of reins, an instant’s breathless poise in
rigid stirrups, then a concerted yell from
several quarters, the plunging of excited
night horses, and we were in pursuit. The
other three, being nearer the lead, had
jumped away with the cattle, and from each
side the stockwhips rang out, mingled with
the cries of the men.
For less than a minute Sam and I rode
together at the tail; then the true position
must have struck us at once, for we swung
out, he to the right, and I to the left. Like
an explosion the fire had blazed up among
the cattle, and gone out. A shower of sparks
had made one spot brilliant for a moment,
to be followed immediately by a deeper
darkness.
The leaders had split before coming to the
fire, but the mass crowding behind had gra-
dually closed the fork till the camp was
smothered. Down went the tent to the
rattle of tinware and buckets; over went the
station waggonette, splintered into a thou-
sand pieces; bells jingled and clanked as
they were kicked along the ground, and from
overhead came the derisive shout and yells
of men who, in all manner of deshabille, had
been rudely awakened and hurried from
warm beds to wet treetops.
We were past the wreckage in a fla«h, and
very soon the sounds changed to the crash-
ing and crackling of timber and brittle un-
derwood, as the frantic mob poured into the
scrub and lignum.
At intervals we heard the frenzied bellow
of a fallen beast; several were left killed or
crippled in the scrub ; and presently a snort-
ing horse came trotting back with empty
saddle and trailing rein. It was Sam’s, and
it had gone right round the cattle; but Sam
hadn’t. Beyond the scrub the broad lagoon
took a long sweep to the north-east, and
opining that the mob would swing with it,
Sam, being an ambitious young man, cut
swiftly across to the point where he could
easily cross out of danger, intending then to
surprise his compatriots by airing his heroic
voice in the lead. But a vine yanked him
out of the saddle, and he contemplated the
frailties of the human race on an owl roost,
subsequently tramping back, the one dis-
graced unit of the watch.
His surmise, however, was correct. The
huge mob swung with the lagoon, and this
turn giving us an advantage, in five minutes
we had them ringing. The bovine tongues
erstwhile silent, were now clamorous, call-
ing for mates that had been lost in the
jumble. Hound and round they went, cough-
ing and lowing to the tune of the cracking
whip, the clashing horn and the trampling
hoof, and the steadying cry of the men, till
they finally quieted down. There we held
them till thp next watch relieved us; there
they were held till morning, the curving
lagoon serving as a brake, and as they were
drawn out to the open at dawn the wild
bulls were shot down in their tracks. Not
that they were the ringleaders, for hulls \
are usually the best campers of all cattle,
hut because they were scrub-bred, and rifles
had not been handy till then.
There was no such thing as “turning in”
when we rode back to camp. There was
nothing to turn into. All the available
wood had been collected, and a bonfire was
blazing. Four men stood or squatted by it,
smoking ; the others, presenting a delightful
study in expressions, were searching the
trampled earth for pipes and tobacco. Bat-
tered and muddy saddles, broken bridles,
damaged campware and sundries were
gathered up and thrown into a heap. Be-
draggled swags, torn blankets, clothing and
other effects were sorted out and claimed
by this or that one. As for the cook, he was
calamity impersonated. As each piece of
his silverware or cutlery was recovered and
carefully piled in the firelight, he looked
volumes of bitterness. The collecting lasted
till the fire burnt low, then we lay down in
heaps by the coals.
At daylight the cook started collecting
again. He mustered up a few tins of jam,
two bottles of pickles, a bucket of potatoes,
two pumpkins, and some odds and ends, and
having cooked everything there was to cook,
25 wet and hungry men sat down to break-
fast. And still they were merry men.
“What’s yours? Spuds or pumpkin?”
—ns the query all round the mud-covered
bags.
“Try some jam with them,” one sug-
gested.
“Go easy with the nickles, Jack,” said an-
other, “but don’t be afraid of the tea. There’s
plenty more of it in the lagoon.”
Pack-horses were sent to the homestead
after breakfast for fresh supplies. Before
these arrived we had dined sumptuously on
emu eggs, which were plentiful in the
locality. We had poached eggs, boiled eges.
fried eggs and roast eggs. The bushman
loves variety.
Thence on, till our bullocks were drafted
out and we took charge, all the spare time
we had from watching and tailing was de-
voted to cleaning and repairing our gear
and other property, and washing our clothes
and blankets. We took our damaged gar-
ments with us when tailing, a couple at a
time, and while the cattle were feeding in
the open we would squat down in the grass,
holding our horses, and patiently stitch up
the rents.
When we rode away from the musterers'
camp for the last time, we said good-bye to
our silent chef. He doffed his cap and bowu
to us—and that was all.
EDWABD S. SORENSON.


The
use
/•
For STATIONARY
and MARINE
PURPOSES
From 7 to 40 H.P.
No Carburetter or Vaporiser.
No Ignition Apparatus.
Makes the fallowing claims upon
your attention—
1— It uses cheap lamp oil (such as kero-
sene), and other residuals.
2 The oil is injected directly into the
cylinder, thus dispensing with unre-
liable and inefficient vaporisers.
3 —lt is very simple in construction, there
being no electric ignition or other
complicated mechanism.
4 Its speeds are such that electric generators
and centrifugal pumps may be coupled
direct.
5 No skilled labor is required, the supply
of fuel and lubricant being all the
attention necessary.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM
The Westinghouse Brake Company of Australasia Ltd.,
GEORGE STREET, CONCORD WEST. N.S.W.
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane,
New Zealand Agents: Philips & Pike, Wellington.
Fai rban ks-Morse
Marine Engines
For Pleasure and Work Boats
Start without cranking, run smoothly, de-
velop full rated power. Simple, eonfpact.
All parts interchangeable. Remarkable fpr
their reliability an ’
Engines, 3% to
Engines, 7% to
Ask for Catalog
CV 1939.
a economy.
24 H.P
mgn »peeu
Slow Si
Fairbanks-Morxe Oil Engines
Operate on Kerosene, Petrol (Gasoline) or Distillate
Stationary and Portable' sizes, 2 to 200 H.P.
Ask for Catalog AL 1939.
F,airbanks-Morse Eclipse Engines
Small, sturdy Engines, especially suited for
pumping or running light machinery.
Simple, compact. Two sizes. Will operate
windmill pump. Ask for Catalog 1939
Fairbanks, Morse & Co.,
Chicago, Hi., U.S.A,
AGENTS—
C. H. Relph, Webster 8 Co. Ltd..
Sydney, N.S.W. Brisbane, Queensland.
F.M.
Type
~K "
I^HP.
Mallach
THE STIRLING WATE
FOR
High Efficiency
AND
Perfect Safety.
We carry Boilers in Stock for Immediate
Delivery, and Quote for Erection
and Brickwork.
We are Sole Agents, and Contract for
Complete Power Plants with Guar-
anteed Results.
AtibNTS FOR—
Nichols Boiler Feed Pumps, Bolinder Woodworking Machinery,
Dewrance Steam Valves.
Write us for our Complete Catalogue of Engineers’ Supplies.
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Monthly Guide for e
Australian.
6d
~ iL
PRIZES VALUE £3500
. . in the . .
8-Hour Art Union & Sports
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General).
DRAWN NOVEMBER 1, 1913.
Ist Prize, value £750. 2nd Prize, value £4OO.
3rd Prize, value £250. And 397 other Valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mr. J. VV. Walker,
! Brenl;f;i't Creek, Cowra, N.S.W., for the modest outlay of ONE
SHI I.UNG.
GET A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1913.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November 6.
To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, a list
of the results will be posted. Tickets may be had from Agents
in all towns, or direct from
JOHN W. DOYLE Secretary Trades Hall, Sydney.
IT IS A WISE PRECAUTION
to take the greatest care of your health. In order to do this
effectually it is necessary from time to time to take a few doses
of the right medicine—one that will* regulate and tone up the
digestive system. There ought to be no difficulty in deciding
what that is. The verdict in favour of Beecham’s Pills is
overwhelming. Many people find it an excellent plan
TO TAKE
them periodically. They are the remedy, par excellence, for
cleansing the system from impurities and ensuring a correct and
regular action of the important organs of digestion, assimilation,
and execretion. Vigour of body and mind, are the portion only
of the healthy. Remember, then, that health may be established
and maintained by the use of that old and well-tried remedy—
BEECH AMS
PILLS.
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
. . . AT . . .
THE BANKING HOUSE, 228 Pitt Street,
Opposite PALACE THEATRE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LENDS MONEY ON ALL SECURITIES, including Furniture,
FROM 10 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
FRED. McWILLIAM, Manager
20th Century Band Saw.
KIRCHNER’S
Woodworking Machines
are giving satisfaction.
Write for Catalogue and Information
direct to the /.
MANUFACTURERS—
KIRGHNER & CO.,
32 Market Street, SYDNEY
d S
Automatic
Knife Grinding
Machine.
Where is the Car to Equal
The METZ “22” at £185?
Where is the car at any price that can do nearly as well? Think of the
economy of it! Think of the saving in cost of running! Think of the
satisfaction of running a car that leaves your mind free to enjoy the pleasure
without bothering about “mileage cost and upkeep."
Its simplicity captivates everyone who knows anything about thoroughbred
motor-car construction. It certainly will appeal to you, from considerations
quite apart from the price. It is stylish, comfortable and durable — a car
that delivers the maximum of economy and efficiency.
Investigate. Get the facts, so that you may eompare.it with cars costing
even twice as much. Details on request, and trial trips to prove it. Price,
£lB5 complete.
BROWN 8 HELLICAR LTD.,
375 KENT STREET (Between King
and Market Streets), SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 4352.
WAVERLEY
INDIAN
CARS,
MOTOCYCLES.
SUFFERERS from that cruel, stubborn, nerve-
racking', skin disease, ECZEMA, need no longer
face its terrible pangs with doubts or misgivings.
“ISO,” the remarkable Eczema Ointment —the remedy
which has cured scores of cases —is within easy reach
of all. The inventors are Chemists of wide repute,
practising in your midst. They use “ISO” daily in
treating patients. Write them at once for a free
sample of “ISO,” enclosing three penny stamps, to
partly cover postage and packing. Their address is:
J. S. BLACK & SONS,
Smith Street, Collingwood, Vic.
$
Salts
\
Mow »o|d by Chemises turoa.j uo.it xanmoo wealth.
W holesat m p orters:
H. dcW. GRUAR, HI, .larsno Street. SYDNEY
You’re the Man Who
Needs a Waterous Mill
If you’re in the timber business you need a Waterous. It may be a
Circular or a Bandmill —but it’s the Waterous you need. The
Waterous is the standard mill —though not perhaps the cheapest. ' It
gives the most efficient service under any conditions. Its speed, its
strength, its reliability—these are the factors that really count. And
because of these, Waterous Mills are in active operation in every
corner of the world.
We don’t expect to sell a Waterous to you on the strength of
this advertisement, but we do hope to have a word from you saying
you’re interested. THEN our expert mill-man —with thirty years’
experience to his credit —will go fully into the matter and prove to
the hilt that it is to your interest to put in a Waterous Mill. If you
want to get at the REAL facts write us now.
CASH or TERMS.
T. M. GOOD ALL & CO. LTD.
Universal Machinery Merchants,
303-5 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Kire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Writ* (or our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MACK LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
THATCHING COLORS BY
A A ARTIFICIAL LIGHT.
By our new system colors of delicate fabrics can be matched
accurately by Electric Light. No other lighting method allows .this.a
Also, the cost of lighting by this method is much below that by any.
other.
SEND FOB OUR PAMPHLET ON THIS SUBJECT.
OF AUSTRALIA Ltd*
MELBOURNE: 33 William St.
’Phone—City 5117.
SYDNEY: Wynyard Lane.
’Phone—City 3520.
Roma St.
’Phone—Cent .^676..
Hardie’s Genuine
Used in place of Weatherboards and Plaster
for Walls, Ceilings and Partitions.
FIRE, ROT, HEAT, ACID g ANT PROOF.
erected cost same as
WEATHERBOARDS.
Our 20-page Booklet B free on application.
JAMES NARPiE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney;
and at Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
SJ
7
Combine Efficiency with Economy and Neatness
by using
The Modern
Insulating Material.
FAST SUPERSEDING ALL OTHER METHODS OF INSULATION.
•9
2in. of Nonpareil Cork equals 4in. of Charcoal.
82 Pitt Street, Sydney,
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRON FOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Valves, Pump s, Pluming,
Patent “ Nelyambo ” Scoops for Cleaning Ou t Tanks and Dams, Fluming, Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought Iron Work.
Head Office and General Engineering Works : Cordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
‘V
very Service
99
M
' / V
The popularity of the “ Buffalo ” is largely due to the growing recog-
nition of the numerous and varied applications in which they are useful.
For fIODERN SHOP AND FACTORY EQUIPMENT they are particularly adapted for—
BLOWlNG—Supplying blast for Cupolas, Forges, Furnaces, Forced Draft, etc.
VENTILATING AND COOLING Shops, Factories, Engine Rooms, Workshops, Laundries, etc.
EXHAUSTING Steam, Smoke, Gas, Fumes, etc.; Shavings and Refuse from Woodworking Plants; and
Dust from Abrasive and Buffing Wheels.
Estimates for SPECIAL HEATING AND DRYING PLANTS.
■ * ’ Write for Fall Descriptive Catalo^o*,
m
m
Engineers and Machinery
60 Clarence St.,
GARDNER ENGINES
MARINE -a STATIONARY.
KEROSENE -BENZINE TOMW and SUCTION GAS .
Simplicity— ——-Low Running Cost —— Non-Carbonising „
Highest Class Material and Workmanship No Back Firingk
STOCKS HELD.
- ,vVy;i
Equitable Building, Sydney
10 George Street, Camperdown
