

MELLOWED BY AGE.
R. G- WATKINS &, CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent, Streefc, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors Plant, Engineers' and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
' AUCIIONLKRS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second = hand Plants always available.
!UJ
o
LJ
KJ
Qt
ISC
LJ
On all Classes of SECURITY,
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
N.S.W. MONT DE PIETE D. & I. GO.,
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAOH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite National Amphitheatre. Telephone: No. 225 Central.
LTD.,
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
And at
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215=217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, Ceneral Manager
'
U ,—III - lIILIIEI . il
mmm
*
Sr
———
iimlrßiiji
maiiiiiii
mm
JgQBART.
—*** —
jjadley’s Orient jjotel.
COLORED POST-CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston —“WEEKLY WORRIES.” Set
ef six, posted free, (xl. Bulletin News-
paper Co., 214 George Street, Sydney.
HAHSkBACOH
H ?
LEATHER BELTING
p IONEE R
GUARAN'I'KKD
J. C. Ludowici <& Son, Ld.
ll7 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
32 RECIPES
for preparing a variety of the most
dainty Desserts with
S.N 3 S NV/H
J'u
will be forwarded, Post Free to Any
Address, on application to
T. 8., Box 577, G.P.0., Sydney.
PALMER CORD TYRES
are specially constructed to ensure Long
THE SILVER I OWN RUBBER CO.,
SYDNEY—MELBOURNE—NEWCASTLE
f
I
R
D
COCOA
SUPERIOR
IN
EVERY WAY.
r,W*
'll
at
\ N
ir
Bungalows lend themselves to White
treatment.
On the North Shore of Sydney Harbor, in the pretty Suburbs of our other Capitals, in our Country
Touis everywhere*! WHITE MALTHOIT) will help considerably to give Distinction and Charm to
towns, evei yvy mn e, »» s< . J-,,1 ,„„idst toll a ire. and the added Comfort which
•vwhere. WHIi ih iiiAJuLmun win hcip » iv \ oinuuvumt . .
the Home The effect of the white roof is wonderful amidst foliage, and the added Comfort which
is considerable for the Asbestos coating protects the home from the extremes of heat and
cold Suggest to your Architect that he provide a WHITE MAI/l HOIl) Roof on your new house.
Booklets and suggestions for the asking
Challis House,
The Paraffine Paint Co. Sydney.
O. S. EVANS, Australasian Manager,
Agencies Everywhere.
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
B.L
GOLD LABEL
WHITE LABEL
EXTRA
SPECIAL
S .V. O.
MODERN MOTOR TRACTION
THE “BIC 4” THIRTY
As a means of hauling, ploughing, breaking, harvesting, etc.,
the “ 810 4 ” is cheaper and more efficient.
Hauls on the road heavier loads at one=third the cost of Steam
Traction Engines.
Guaranteed the equal of 30 horses. Free Booklet on request.
Jlioffat-Virtue £ K
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
352 Kent St. (near King st), Sydney.
HELIDON SPA
HELIDON SPA performs a primary function.
It dissolves and carries away effete matter.
STARKEYS LTD Agents,
Phillip St., Sydney, and Red fern
The Bulletin
To). 34.—-No. 1/55.]
[Thursday, October 2, 1913.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, X.SAY.. Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Business Men
N.S.W. Business Man’s Compendium. 25/- (10d.).
Frank’s Science of Organisation and Business Develop-
ment, 18/- (4d.).
Scott’s Influencing Men in Business, 5/- (3d.).
Hose’s The Ginger Cure (for Business), 2/6 (2d.).
Heelis’s Theory and Practice of Commerce, 5/6 (6d.).
Should have these Books on their Shelves.
(Postages shown in •parentheses .)
Dicksee’s Advanced Accounting, 25/- (Bd.).
Going’s Principles of Industrial Engineering, 10/-
(4d.).
Kaiser’s Systematic Indexing, 16/- (5d.).
Greeby’s Modern Business Training, 4 16 (3d.).
Cherington’s Advertising as a Business Force, 7/6 (4d.)
GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROP'T’Y, LTD., 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes
For Coughs, Colds,
Sore Throat and the
Prevention of
Consumption.
p,l
A. The Larynx
or Organ of
Voice.
B. The Trachea
or Windpipe.
C. The Bron-
chial Tubes
of Dissected
Lung.
D. The Lobe of
one of the
Lungs
CAUTION.—The large sale for
JUJUBES” has led to a * mb ®L O LX 0 f
tions being manufactured under * h . “ a ortan t,
menthol and other jujubes. It is P , j.
therefore, when buying, to be su
HUDSON’S “Eumenthol Jujubes. the ' v
be asked to buy other jujubes, and ** t° d nthol
are “just as good as Hudson s imitations
Jujubes.” This proves that these imu
and substitutes have nO . , re P u . t ® tl °" s rep ute
own, and can only be sold on the £°° d ho i
and high character of Hudson s Eu
Jujubes*.’*
SOU) BY CHEMISTS, Tins I/O-
Forwarded post free on receipt of stamp*
by the Manufacturers, r .y.,
Hudson’s Eumenthol ChemiclvdnEY
19 York Street, SYUOci-
Box 1520 G.P.O. «i
The Red Page
Fiction
The chief value of Frank Harris's
Unpatli'd Waters (Lane, per Dymock’s
Library)—a collection of fantastic stories
and studies —lies in the inclusion of this
author’s famous story, “The Miracle of the
Stigmata.” The hero of this story “was a
Jew, to all appearances: a middle-aged Jew r ,
with features sharpened by suffering, or pos-
sibly by illness, and yet in many ways he
was not like a Jew: he never went near a
synagogue, he never argued about religion
or anything else, and he took what people
gave him for his work without bargaining.”
lie was a carpenter and smith, and he had
settled in Caesarea, “after the troubles in
Jerusalem.” There he marries. When Paul
came preaching the death and resurrection
of Jesus, Joshua, the carpenter, expresses to
his wife his doubt whether Jesus had died.
“Jesus is said to have died on the Cross in
a few hours; and that, you know, is very
strange ; the crucified generally live for two
or three days.” And Joshua does not recog-
nise in Paul’s preaching the words or the
spirit of Jesus. Thus, when all the other
Jews in Caesarea had been converted to the
new religion, the carpenter remained obdu-
rate. And the one unconverted Jew in
Caesarea dies, and when the women prepare
him for burial they find scars on his hands
and feet and a healed wound in his side.
A miracle had been wrought for the new
faith ! “Because of Joshua’s unbelief, Paul
declared, and fqr a sign to the whole world,
the Stigmata of Jesus the Crucified had
been put upon him.” In a similar vein
of irony Harris details the life of “An Eng-
lish Saint”—a beautiful young Englishman
who fell into the hands of a capable woman,
and under her training became a bishop and
a saint. Interesting work all of it, the work
of a highly original mind, more interested in
ideas than in literature.
According to a London divorce court
Judge, the eighth year is the most dangerous
year in the adventure of marriage. This is
the year when Things Happen. Statistics
concur. Taking the average annual average
of divorces in England between 1904 and
1908, there were 292 divorces between the
fifth and the tenth year of marriage, as
compared with 117 between the second and
fifth year, and only 24 in the first two years
of married life. The figures are those of
Philip Gibbs, author of The Eighth Year
(Williams and Norgate, per Dymock’s
Library). They are English statistics;
and, on reference to The Commonwealth
Year Book , we find that Knibbs has not
regarded this subject as of sufficient inter-
est for statistics. Yet we should like to
know. whether for Australia the eighth is
also the most dangerous year of marriage.
It has always seemed to us that the most
dangerous year of marriage is the year in
which the parties first meet. However,
Philip Gibbs makes out a good case: —
“It is in the eighth year, or thereabouts,
that there is a tug-of-war between two
temperaments, mated bv the law, but not
mated, perhaps, in ideals, in ambitions or in
qualities of character. The man and woman
pull against each other, tugging at each
other’s heartstrings. The eighth year is the
fatal year, when, if there is no give-and-
take. no working compromise, no new
pledges of loyalty and comradeship, the
foundations of the home are shattered.”
This is a middle-class problem; the rich
and the poor escape the eighth year. As one
of the characters in his demonstration says:
“In the first and second years a wife is
absorbed in the experiment of marriage and
in the sentimental phase of love. In the
third and fourth years she begins to study
her husband and to find him out. In the
fifth and sixth years, having found him out
completely, she makes a working compro-
mise with life and tries to make the best of
it. In the seventh and eighth years she
begins to find out herself, and then
there is the Devil to pay!”
However, there is one way to pass
smoothly over that “mid-Channel,” as
Pinero termed this phase. That is children.
The large majority of divorces occur in a
childless home. And even one or two chil-
dren are no safeguard. As long as the
children are young the mother is anchored :
it is when they are growing out of hand that
the wife discovers that her home is a doll’s
house. She has too much time to think, too
little to do. The remedy, then, seems a per-
manent anchor —a succession of children—
say, 19... . which is absurd. Gibbs suggests
other ways out of the Divorce Court: The
wife takes to (1) religion, (2) drink. (3)
some other kind of man, or (4) work, or
(5) becomes a suffragette. Most of this
last-named species, he infers, are Eighth-
Year Women —childless Eighth-Year Women.
“They seize upon this movement with
a feverish desire to find in it some new
motive in life, some tremendous excitement,
some ideals greater and more thrilling than
the little ideals of their home life.” But it
is only a temporary way of escape. “The
problems of their sex still remain with them.
They may break all the laws, but get no
nearer to liberty. They are still prisoners
of fate, bond-slaves to a nature which they
do not understand.”
Philip Gibbs develops his thesis, first, by
an elaborate “Argument,” in which he traces
the course of tbe average marriage up to
the year of crisis, and, second, by “A Demon-
stration,” to which he has rather needlessly
added a foot-note, reserving all dramatic
rights. For his story is nothing but a novel-
ised three-act drama, in which the flat-
dwelling; childless wife hesitates between the
other kihd of man and the suffragette ex-
citement of breaking windows. It would,
and probably will, make a clever stftgse.
comedy. But in his argument Gibbs’ has
practically said —and said more pithily—all
that he says in his demonstration.
The Blood of the Arena , translated from
the Spanish of Vicente Blasco Ibanez
(McUlurg, per Sydney Book Club), gives to
the English reader a clear insight into the
modern business of bull-fighting. The
author takes for his hero a typical matador,
perfumed, superstitious, boastful, amorous,
and—-till the game gets him—recklessly
brave. We see him in all his glory, far
removed from his youth of poverty, the
greatest matador of his day, fawned on and
almost as fanatically deified as a football
hero or a heavy-weight champion is by
Australians. We learn that the killing of
bulls has become a business in modern
Spain; the matador is financed by a man-
ager, his engagements are arranged by his
agent with the care necessary to the tour
of a Melba; we see the other side of this
glory: we see, for instance, the matador’s
wife, she who would never gb to a bull-fight,
waiting at home for the telegram.
“Seventy-two afternoons of agony each
season, like a criminal condemned to death
.... Seventy-two days of terror, of vague
superstitions, thinking that a word forgotten
in a prayer might influence the luck of the
absent 0ne!....0n her return to the house
she was presented with the little blue paper,
which she opened with a trembling hand:
‘As usual.’ She could breathe again, she
could sleep like the criminal that is freed
for the instant from immediate death ; but
in two or three days again came the agony
of uncertainty, the terrible torture of doubt.”
And she was not the only woman who
received that “As usual” telegram. For her
husband was besieged by other women —
even by a great lady. His romance gives
the guise of a novel to what is really a text-
book of the business of bull-fighting. lie
meets, too, another modern type, a Spanish
bandit, who killed men instead of bulls.
“ ‘I think, Senor Juan,’ said the bandit,
‘that we have come into the world rather
late. What deeds of valor and glory young
fellows like ourselves would have done in
other times ! You would not kill bulls and
I would not roam over the plains hunted
like a wild beast. We would be viceroys,
grand moguls ! Some great thing across tin-
seas ! You have not heard of one Pizarro.
Senor Juan?’ ”
But the game gets both bandit and
bull-fighter. Juan has the usual acci-
dent in the ring, and after his slow recovery
he finds that the old reckless daring that
made him the darling of the people has fled.
He fails to make a clean kill.
“His arm seemed shorter the moment he
held it before him with the sword. It used
to reach the beast’s neck with the swiftness
of a lightning flash ; now the distance seemed
interminable, a terrifying void which he
knew not how to bridge. His legs also
seemed to be other and different, to live
apart, with a will of their own, indepen-
dent of the rest of his body. In vain he
ordered them to remain quiet and firm as
before. They did not obey. They seemed to
have eyes, to see the danger, to spring with
unwonted lightness, without the self-control
to stand still when , they felt the vibrations
of the air stirred by the rush of the wild
beast.”
S
Ilis nerve had gone! We11....he would
fight bulls in the future as did many of his
friends, some days he would do it well,
others ill. Bull-fighting was nothing but a
trade, and once the highest place was gained
the important thing was to live and keep
himself out of danger. Retire? No, rich
though he was, the owner of an estate, he
knew that the loss of his income as a mata-
dor would mean financial ruin. But no !
He would get c lose; he would make himself
get close! But he had begun by now to
choose his bulls before they entered the
arena. And, after some dreadful days of
failure, when he heard himself ridiculed and
reviled by the fickle crowd, his old audacity
returns, and, spur Ad by the blood-lust of his
audience, he hurls himself to death on the
sharp horns. '
The purport of the book is seemingly to
glorify Spain’s national sport. Ur. Ruiz,
whose practice lay among the matadors, ex-
plains the derivation of the bull-fight. Had
the Inquisition persisted there would have
been no bull-fighting for Spain.
“The burning of human beings at the
stake were spectacles that took away inter-
est in games with mere wild animals. The
Inquisition became a great national festival.
But there came a day in which the Inquisi-
tion began to lose ground. It finally died
of old age, long before the reform statutes
suppressed it. It wore itself out; the world
had changed, and such diversions became
something like what a bull-fight in Norway
would be among the snows and beneath the
gloomy sky. They lacked atmosphere. They
began to be ashamed of burning men.,..At
the same time we Spaniards, weary of roving
over the world in search of adventure, began
to stay at home. . .The conauest of America,
with its continual embarkation of adven-
turers, terminated, and then it was that the
art of bull-fighting began.... Bull-fighting
became democratic when it was converted
into a profession.... The sons of those who
had frequented with religious and intense
enthusiasm the burning of heretics and the
baiting of Jews gave themselves up to wit-
nessing the struggle between the man and
the bull, in which only occasionally death
comes to the man. Is this not progress?”
“And the doctor railed against horse-
races, in which many more men are killed
than in bull-fights ; against fox-hunting with
trained dogs, witnessed by civilised specta-
tors ; against many modern games out of
which the champions come with broken legs,
fractured skulls, or flattened noses. .. .‘Just
now England leads, and both hemispheres
approve horse-racing ; crowds gather stupidly
to watch lank nags run around a racetrack,
a spectacle that could not be surpassed in
insipidity.’ ”
i>ut the author’s real purpose is made
plain in his descriptions of the horrors en-
acted behind the scenes, the patching up of
the disembowelled horses, so that they can
be sent tottering once again into the ring, to
be finished by the bull; the use of the fire
banderiilas on a timid bull, and all the
cruelty and savagery ,of the arena. His
conclusion leaves no doubt of his inten-
tion :
“Poor bull! Poor matador !
“Suddenly the murmuring amphitheatre
burst forth into a bellowing, hailing the con-
tinuation of the spectacle. Nacional (watch-
ing beside the torn body of his matador)
closed his eyes and clenched his fists.
“It was the bellowing of the wild beast,
the real and only one!”
By the Open Sea (Palmer, per Dymock’s
Library) opens out new aspects of its
author, August Strindberg. This is the
story of a man of genius, a superman in the
making, who. isolated in a community of
stupid and almost uncivilised fisher-folk on
an island in the Stockholm Archipelago,
gradually goes insane. Borg is a remark-
able creation —a small, dandified man domi-
nated by a great brain, moulding all his life
by thought, freed from the drag of his pas-
sions—intelligence triumphant. Never hav-
ing sailed a boat, he takes the tiller from
the helmsman in a storm, and by pure obser-
vation and deduction navigates it to safety.
Strindberg does not merely tell you that he
did it; he explains in detail how he did it.
The author’s wide, if possibly loose, ac-
quaintance with many sciences enables
him to give descriptions of scenery in
strictly scientific terms; and much of the
novel is descriptive. Any method is right
that gets the effect intended, and Strind-
berg herein manages to convey what seems
like an extraordinarily accurate impression
of these bleak and desolate islets. But the
inevitable woman appears; and the super-
man, despite his reasoning, is attracted to
her. However, he resists his intriguing
emotions and silences them; and his court-
ship is a cold yet intellectually clever one.
But the woman disappoints him —for woman
is “but an intermediary form between man
and child,” and he allows a youth to win
her from him. However, he takes his re-
venge on her before letting her go. But the
consciousness of his superiority over,. and his
contempt for, his fellow men, his isolation
with his thoughts, and the influence of the
degraded human beings by whom he is sur-
rounded, lead gradually to his insanity. The
splendid brain in the insignificant body
topples over into madness: he takes his own
life.
Meant, evidently, by the author as a
tragedy in which the finer qualities of man-
kind are inevitably overwhelmed by the
baser qualities by which it is surrounded,
this novel will have for the English reader
another moral. The superman possessed no
heart; he had removed himself too perilously
far from the qualities necessary to the race.
Man cannot live by intellect alone. Despite
the care Strindberg has given to the build-
ing up of his ideal type, we find that type
unpleasant. The only excuse for the exist-
ence of the superman is his ability to re-
main without dizziness on his lonely heights:
this one had not that strength—lie was but
half-superman. Therefore he perished.
A book interesting and strange.
The Writing of English
A professor of English in Columbia Uni-
versity, U.S.A., W. T. Brewster, tells us
how to write in the volume of the “Home
University Library.’’ under the above title.
Or, rather, he tells us that neither he nor
any other pedagogue can tell us how. But
he admits his ignorance in a delightful and
colloquial text-book. “There are no laws of
style or composition, in any strict sense, and
the principles for the most part, mostly
conveniences...-The great condition of all
communication, written or spoken, is intelli-
gibility. Language also exists that we may
unburden our minds in our own behalf,
whence, among other things, poetry and pro-
fanity ; and it is also a condition of com-
munication that we try to be as interesting
as possible.” How can rules be laid down
for an art which depends chiefly on unex-
pectedness? There is no one test of good
writing, except the pragmatical one, that
it does its work. “All our fancied ‘laws’ of
writing—the laws of the short story, of the
drama, of the sentence, of the paragraph,
of letter-writing, are of very little practical
value....No one criterion of good writing
can be found.” All you may strive for is
the maximum of meaning and of interest
possible in any given case. For prose, like
life, like Bergson’s philosophy, is movement,
flux. Place your ideas in a carefully pre-
pared envelope—that’s all. Examine good
writers —good modern writers; forget Addi-
son and Burke. "It is, indeed, a grave lit-
erary and pedagogical fallacy to assume
that good moderns have nothing to tell us
about composition that could not better be
found in the ancients, from any point of
view, whether of style or structure.”
Yet this volume is of extreme value, since
it ranges throughout literature, adduces and
analyses specimens of good writing, and,
when dealing with such subjects as the
paragraph and the sentence, formulates a
series of negatives that, to the near-good
writer will be stimulating.
As to style, it cannot be taught. “No-
body in his senses wishes to do so, knowing
that it is as idle to give instruction in the
art of expressing individuality, of being
oneself, of joining the chosen band of the
naturally gifted, as it would be to teach
youth how to become self-made men... .Good
style comes down, ultimately, to clearness
and to movement, that is, to its faculty of
not only making clear whatever is said, but
also of keeping alive whatever ideas are
added to one another. . . .The task of Eng-
lish composition is to tinker words and
sentences, already assumed to be correct
enough, into such increment • of meaning
and movement as is worth the trouble. .. .No
such thing exists as a ‘well of English unde-
filed.’ Also, there is no standard of length
in the English sentence. The one thing is
to get variation of length. As for punctu-
ation, the general rule is to omit no sign
where ambiguity or obscuritv is likely to
arise rrom such bmission. Be concise, but
again, you can be too concise. General terms
are, on the whole, not so interesting
specific words. " ‘After many vicissitudes he
married his heart’s desire,’ is the sum and
substance of many stories; but this general
predication has to be expanded into luuuu
or SO,OOU words of particular detail to be
marketable.”
%
\\ hat, particularly, is prose rhythm''
“lihythm is essentially the recurrence oi
some unit of length and accent, allowing for
such slight variations as do not throw* one
out of tbe beat. . . .In spoken prose die unit
is not improbably determined by what may
be uttered comfortably at a breath... in
written prose, the unit may be measured by
what the eye can easily take at a glance.
The presence of the perception of rhythm iu
prose will, if this assumption be true, vary
with the capacity of the speaker or the
reader.” But of whatever length, the unit
is recurrent and balanced. "The nearest
that we can get to any ‘law’ of prose rhythm
is to say that the clauses are not very wide
apart in the number of syllables, that they
are neither choppy nor cumbrous, and that
the succession of units is sufficiently pro-
longed to set up a suggestion of regularity,
which may be, and evidently is, varied from
paragraph to paragraph, and even from sen-
tence to sentence.” And the tendency is to
prolong the last unit, giving to sentences
what is called cadence or fall. Stevenson,
“who played sentences as a kind of game.”
thought that in each sentence the literary
artist should "plait or weave his meaning
....so that each sentence, by successive
phrases, shall first come into a kind of knot,
and then, after a moment of suspended mean-
ing, solve and clear itself.”
But analysis and the isolation of parts do
not at all correspond with the actual process
of composition. “It is imposible to give a
satisfactory picture of what writing, as an
active process, really is.” Finally, “do not
cultivate style, or dally with a style.” And
to learn to write it is necessary to keen on
writing. “It can be only through desire and
constant experiment that skill in writing is
acouired.”
It is curious, however, to note that the
author, who, in his m-nctical hints for ac-
quiring and utilising a vocabulary, mentions
the methods of reading the dictionary
through, and of learning two new words per
diem, does not suggest the use of a Thea-
saurus. This, in the opinion of many writers,
is the beginner’s first aid in literature.
Wanted—Twelve Sonnets of the
Months
England has got a long start on us in the
matter of the descriptive seasonal epithet.
Thus “April showers” or “March winds” da
not connote Australian weather conditions.
We should like to see a series of twelve
sonnets on the twelve Australian months—
sonnets that best express each month to Aus-
tralians. This can be done in general terms,
or by specific references to seasonal condi-
tions —the blossoming of Australian flowers,
the song of birds, the prevailing weather
conditions, even the Melbourne Cup—the
list can be indefinitely extended. We shall
begin with an October sonnet, entries for
which must reach this office by the 3rd of
November. An honorarium of half-a-guinea
will be awarded the winner. Sonnets ending
in a rimed couplet are not required.
That tiny magalet, The Big Aus., which
practically claims to be The Bulle-
tin's nipper—new r s to us, but such
things do happen—is doing good work
for Australia. The September issue
(6d.), under the editorship of E. S. Emer-
son, states its platform. Its useful and
patriotic aim is to “out” party government;
and its constructive measures include elec-
tive ministries, the initiative and referendum,
and preferential voting ; but it does not aim
at helping in the formation of a new party.
A cheerful issue of prose and verse by Big
Australians.
Received Vol. 3 of The Milking Shorthorn
Cattle Herd Kook of N.S.W. (10s. 6d..
Sands, Sydney)—a fully illustrated Cow
Peerage.


ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS
Canton Guard Lever Harrows
m
JS
J
H J
IP Mi
j J J j j
1057
Similai in construction to the ordinary U-Bar Lever Harrow, with the addition
of the guards that protect the ends of the tooth bars.
ihis Harrow is superior to all others for use in orchards, vineyards, or trashy
ground, ihe ends of the tooth bars being protected, prevents injury from colliding
with trees or shrubs, and avoids the accumulation of trash that‘would foul the
ordinary Harrow.
By throwing the levers forward the teeth are thrown back for transporting, or
to clear the Harrow of trash.
Madt in two Sections of 25 or 30 teeth to the Section. The teeth are 8 inches
long by i inch square.
2 Sections of 25 teeth each, with bars as shown, weight 2031 b., width Bft.,
complete .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 75/-
2 Sections of 30 teeth each with bars as shown, weight 2311 b., width 10ft.,
complete .. .. - - . . .. . . . . .. . . 84/-
THE STAR DISC HARROW
THE STAR DISC
HARROW contains all
the features of any im-
portance in a disc har-
row, and includes besides
many advantages and
conveniences for the
cheap and successful use
of such an implement.
The seat is so arranged
that it can be adjusted
for a light or heavy
driver, and all excess of
weight taken off the
horses’ necks. A two-
wheeled fore truck takes
the place of the pole, do-
ing away with all friction
on the horses, and enab-
ling the operator to turn
his team in their own
length.
a/i (e
*
Light 2-Horse, sft. wide, 10 discs, 16in. size of discs, 3021 b. net weight
2 or 3-Ilorse, Oft. wide. 12 discs, lOin. size of discs, 3001 b. net weignt
1005)
All Star Harrows have two levers. Cleaners included.
£7
( So. Tx
£7/10/-
WIARD PATENT PLOUGHS
G 2. Pony Plough, will plough 3in. to sin. deep, Gin. to Sin. wide ; Wood Beam,
weight 401 b., with wheel, 23/ 0. Extra Shares, 9(1.
100, Two-Horse Steel Beam Plough, as illustrated, fitted with ordinary
Colonial Coulter, and with Iron Handles if required, will plough 6in. to 9m.
deep, Klin, to 14in. wide; weight, lOGlb., 75/- Extra Shares, 1/9.
21, One-Horse Swivel Plough, Wood Beam, will plough 4in. to an. deep,
Gin. to lOin. wide; weight, 771 b., 42/6. Extra Shares, 1/6.
Send for Price List of Agricultural
Implements and Tools of Trade,
Post Free on request.
Canton Scotch Clipper Plough, lOin. Steel Beam, for two Horses, weight, 911 b.,
with one Steel Share, 75/-. Extra Steel Shares, 9/6.
CANTON No. 4
DISC PLOUGH.
THE CANTON DISC PLOUGH has been universally successful for general
use everywhere (in hard, soft, dry, wet, old or new soil).
The Discs are 24 inches in diameter, and the Single Disc will turn furrows
from 3 to 12 inches, and the gang ploughs have adjustments of equal dimensions
between each Disc. The Discs are all ball-bearing, have dust-proof boxes, and are
set at the proper angle to revolve freely when in contact with the soil. The soil
is turned completely over and is thoroughly pulverised. Can be adjusted to cut 10
or 12 inches.
1- weight, 6721 b. .. .. .. Price, £l3/10/-
2- weight, 7<Solb. .. .. .. Price, £l6/5/-
3- weight, 9001 b. .. .. .. Price, £2l
26'in. Spare Discs, 24/- each.
o. Tx 1056. New Model One Horse Plough, wood handles, low set, like the
famous Scotch ploughs (No. Tx 1056) .. .. .. .. ..50/-
Empire All Steel
Cultivator
We specially recomniend this Cultivator, as, with the attachments, it can be
used for cultivating almost any crop.
With Attachments, weight, 901 b., 34/6. Extra Tines,
Sweeps, 10in., 1/-; 12in., 1/1; 14in., 1/2 each.
Hilling Board Attachments, 10/6 pair.
Extension Pieces, to make into 7-Tine Cultivator 7/6 pair.
IRON PLOUGHS.
*-
...
No. 0. —One-Horse Iron Plough, as illustrated, with one extra share and spanner;
weight, 1161 b.; will do Tin. to Sin. depth and width.. .. .. 75/-
Two-Horse Iron Plough, similar to No. 0, but much stronger.. . . £5/5/-
The Little Beauty Iron Pony Plough, weight, 821 b.; will do Tin. to Sin. depth
and width .. ... .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 50/-
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Provider*,
New Palace Emporium,
BricKneld Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


wmmams.
Loaded Shotgun Cartridges.
"New Rival”
No black powder cartridges have so many strong
points to recommend them as Winchester “New
Rival.” Their uniform shooting qualities are due to
the fact that the shells are made of high-class,
tested materials, and loaded with the best brands
of powder, shot and wadding. The patented
corrugated head, and the solid, gas-tight, fire-
proof base construction used in Winchester
cartridges, coupled with a system o.
loading which gives invariable results, pro-
duces a quality that is unsurpassed.
Insist Upon Having Winchester, The
W Brand. Sold The World Over .
m
% ft?
v*. s
m V
m
US
1
WM
Mr
&
22
Sn*-
aL
a
l‘w-.
< £r"
Automatic Electric Light Plants
STARTS ITSELF!
STOPS ITSELF !
a
r+* T *
USTUt-BRUSTDP
LISTER BRIISTON
liJ
Ji
1?
HU
\SK.3
IXULUCD f* h.iNil anjjjnj] JLLLLHI ODZEO]'
(5 © © ©
t 8.. • B B
?
The LISTER -BRUSTON
Automatic Electric Light
—Plant
AS USED BY
J. V. Tarte, Esq., Taviuni, Fiji.
J. L. Currie, Esq., Barra, Camper-
down.
O. J. Syme, Esq., Bolobek, Macedon.
J. Clee, Esq., Spray House, Bel-
larine.
H. B. Howard Smith, Esq., Sor-
rento.
C. F. Fairbairn, Esq., Calimo, Den-
iliquin.
Hospital for the Insane, Mont Park,
Melbourne.
And many others.
W. G. WATSON 8 CO. LTD., 279 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
SUTHERLAND 8 ASHMAN, 379 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON LTD., Creek Street, BRISBANE.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
DURCAT
ALOG UE
illustrated
'throughout
•—will be
posted free to those desirous of
shopping by mail. We sell, carriage
paid, Jewellery. Watches. Gramo-
phones, Guns,Novelties of all kinds,
many unobtainable elsewhere,
Bubber Stamps. Music, Musical In-
struments, etc., eta. Sole agents for Wilson's Ear
Drums for Deafness. Ramey's Medicator fos Catarrh
Write, mentioning this paper to:—
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY. 229 Collins Str-ct, Melbmime
ASTHMA CURE
6RIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES I
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, NerronsConrta
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediatel*
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co's INDIAN CIGAR
ETTBS. Bold by all ChemitU. 14
Celebrated
Cascade
Ale
IN BULK
and
BOTTLED.
I-
*iy'
C- : - 5 }• * ■
4
s
if
A ®r
M • *•»**.»
CALL
FOR IT
on ALL
Occasions.
Head Office:
156 Collins St., Hobart
AGENTS:
Melbourne:
Taylor, Ferguson &
Co., 127 King St.
Sydney:
D’Arcy & Co.
Brisbane:
Burns, Philp & Co.,
Ttd.
Maryborough:
Corser & Co.
Rorkhampton:
Walter lieid & Co.
Townsville:
Burns, Philp & Co.,
Ltd.
Cairns:
Burns, Philp & Co.,
Ltd.
r
The following interesting letter is written
Clements. Tonic.
“To CLEMENTS TONIC, LTD.
“From May to the end of October, 1912, I suffered
agonies with acute MUSCULAR RHEUMATISM.
My ankles, knees and shoulder joints became
swollen and painful, and the excruciating pains in
m.v back were almost unbearable. 1 was in a
helpless condition, could scarcely stand; to make
matters worse, I completely lost my appetite, and to sleep at night was out of the
question.
“I had the best medical advice and medicines, Turkish and hot salt-water
baths out of number, also was massaged three times a week, but all to no purpose.
“I began to despair of ever being well again, and. as a last resource, concluded
to try CLEMENTS TONIC, I had read so much of it.
“I did so, and I FELT A WONDERFUL IMPROVEMENT. By the time
I had finished my second large bottle the swelling of the joints and pains in the
back left me, my appetite bad returned, and 1 slept well. When I was on my
fourth bottle I felt as vigorous and strong as I ever did in my life.
“I can now go about and enjoy myself with renewed energy, that makes life
worth living. I have only Clements Tonic to thank for coming to my timely
assistance, when all other remedies failed to restore me to perfect health.
“(Signed) FRED. E. DIAMOND, J.P.
“No. 8 Rosedale Street, Petersham, Sydney, N S.W.”
CLEMENTS TONIC IS THE
BEST OF MEDICINES.
GET IT AND GET WELL. All Chemists and Stores sell it.
This medicine is invaluable for restoring strength after illness, Fever, Weakness,
Insomnia, Indigestion, or Constipation. It gives strength and health.


Bengers is
natural food entire-
ly free from any
chemical substance
whatsoever.
&
\
It is different
from all other
foods in being
scientifically
combined with
natural diges-
tive principles.
♦
Food
is prepared for child, invalid,
or aged person, with fresh new milk,
and in course of preparation, both
the Food and the milk are partially
digested, as desired.
This uniquefeature enables Benger's Food
to be assimilated under almost all conditions
of illness and digestive disorder .
Benger's Food is sold in tins by Chemists, etc., everywhere.
An interesting booklet explaining how Benger’s Fool ‘assists Nature*
for Invalids and Con'vaL scents, post fee from
BENGER’S FOOD LTD., MANCHESTER,Eng.
Branch Offices'.
NEW YORK (U.S A.) 92, William St. SYDNEY (N.S.W.) TI7, Pitt St.
Canadian Agents— National Drug & Chemical Co., Ltd.. 34. St.
Gabriel St., MONTREAL,and branches throughout CAiNADA.
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
i!
Is.
SYDNEY : John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
MELBOURNE : Briscoe & Co., Ltd.,Lit. Collins St.
BRISBANE : Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH : McLean Bros. & Rigg.
Aus. ltep.—T. Nicholls, c/o Sydney Agents.
Fashionable
Favorite-Perfume
FWOLFF&SOHN
F.Wolff&Sohn
PERFUMERS
. KARLSRUHE <
Ml-BERLIN . LONDON
Obtainable from all the leading stores
heals any wound or sore
If you have an obstinate sore, a wound that won t
knit, a bad leg or a skin eruption of any kind,
no matter of how long standing, you can cure it
quickly and surely with
■ WILKINSON’S
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT.
Price 1/6, posted 1/9. J WILKINSON, Chemist
1] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane.
aOWKiKCTON* Hf
i&J2dLrtO£S
BOTTLE AFTER BOTTLE-
of “ Bonnington’s Irish Moss” goes forth on its
mission—that of curing Coughs and Colds. You
can rely on each one doing its duty faithfully.
IT IS A. REAL CURE FOR
COUCHS, COLDS, BRONCHITIS, CROUP,
WHOOPINC COUGH, SORE THROAT,
SORE LUNCS, LOSS OF VOICE, INFLUENZA
DIFFICULTY OF BREATHING.
and all these kindred ailments of the throat and lungs.
Do not be misled by worthless imitations. Take only—
BONNINGTON’S IRISH MOSS
OF 40 YEARS FAME.
RUNKENNESS Cured.
Any lady can cure the most violent drunkard—secretly— at home. GOLDEN
SPECIFIC has no odor or taste, and can be taken by the most delicate person
of either sex. It totally eradicates all craving for stimulants, creating a last-
ing antipathy to alcohol in a few weeks. Many cases are cured in a few days
with this treatment. . . Send 2d. stamp for FREE SAMPLE and full particulars.
THE GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO., DEPT. 4, MARKET STREET, SYDNEY, N. S.W.
JE
MAKE UP YOUR
MIND TO HAVE
A PERFECT
BUST
There are to-day hundreds of women who were once thin, flat-
bosomed, hollow-cheeked and generally scraggly in appearance, and
suffering the effects of ana-mia and defective digestion, who are now for
the first time in their lives healthy, tull-bosomed and pink-cheeked, and
enjoying the full vigor of robust womanhood, as the result of a few
weeks under our wonderful
** FLESH-FOOD *’ TREATMENT.
Many women whose figures have been spoiled by maternal duties
have been entirely restored to splendid form, aiid flat-chested young
women who suffered slow development have the fault corrected by
this treatment with lasting effect.
Flesh-Food is totally harmless in every respect. Its efficacy is
beyond question, and its use no demand upon the subject’s time. Many
eases gained up to six pounds a week, and an increase in bust measure-
ment up to 8 and 10 inches. Guarantee given in every case.
ANY WOMAN who lacks good bust development lacks the one essential that creates a perfect
appearance. Lack of proper bust development, hollow cheeks and “salt-cellars” quickly take from
a woman the bloom and freshness of healthy womanhood. Misfortune may have been your lot in
so far as natural development is concerned, but science has found a way to correct your deficiency.
Even though you have never been full-bosomed, and though you have been attenuated all your life,
if you suffer from no wasting disease, your bosom can be fully developed and your weight increased
to normal. , T HAS BEEN D ONE FOR THOUSANDS WHY NOT YOU?
You can readily see the effect of an increase in your weight or measurements. It is not neces-
sary to imagine you are being benefited. See whac Miss M. BOURKE, of Tamworth, says
“Yours to hand, and am pleased to state that your treatment increased my
weight considerably over two stone, and my bust measurements by several
inches. Since using it 1 am much better in health, and my flesh is now firm
and I feel stronger and more vigorous. I thank you for the trouble you have
taken, and am grateful for all you have done for me.”
FREE
SAMPLE
We publish an interesting book on the subject of attenuation and develop-
ment, and will send same and a FREE SAMPLE TREATMENT to you FREE
OF CHARGE upon receipt of a 2d. stamp to pay part postage. All communica-
tions private and confidential. Write or call to-day for full particulars. [lBlB
FALLIISRE FLESH-FOOD CO., 1103 ASH STREET, SYDNEY.
No Motorist can afford to overlook
the exceptional merits of
BARNET GLASS
MOTOR TYRES
Produced bq the Founders of
Australasia's Rubber Industry
BAENET GLASS BUM® C?G?
231 Clarence St., Sydney
&
s
Ml
FREE TO
SMOKERS !
Mr. R. J. Hinton, Jerrara Creek, Marulan, N.S.W.,
“It gives me great pleasure to inform you that I
have been completely cured of the Tobacco Habit by
your wonderful Tobacco Specific, after using tobacco
heavily for seven years, sometimes Boz. to lOoz. in
the week. It is now 12 months since I last used
tobacco, and, although I am continually in the com-
pany of smokers, I do not have the least desire to
smoke, therefore I consider the cure permanent.
“My general health is now perfect; all my former
complaints, such as irregular Heart Action, Dizzi-
ness, Nervousness and Stomach Trouble, which 1
have every reason to believe were caused through the
use of tobacco, have entirely disappeared, and are
onlv remembered as a hideous nightmare. I eat
and sleep well, and feel fit to face the world again.
It will give me great pleasure to recommend your
remedy to others.**
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a FREE
SAMPLE of Tobacco Specific, also Booklet, Testi-
monials, e-tc. .
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
DEPT. Q,
107 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
(i.
“Coai-uline,” “Ivlinx,” “Tenasitine,”
Cements for breakages, manufacturing purposes, etc.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Have you grown tired of wearfng tireless
and cumbersome spring truiies? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR. but ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us. and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUBHION APPLIANCE
Never mind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
thp reach of all. Can you aßk for more?
PERFECT EASE. COMFORT, and SECURITY.
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Colline-st., Melbourne, Vic.
The 1 Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centurtee.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
ib w*e tine* lflM.
CURES
Austrian Blignt, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist loritshistory—the book is free-or write
g. GRhEN. 210, L&Uibetli Koad, Loudon, Lu*.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Two Ways of Love.
Married for disappointment, married in self-
defence ;
Married to drug beyond a dream a lost love’s
evidence;
Married to hold hi's soul to earth, his spirit
to the clay,
That she would wait at Heaven’s gate for
his love at Judgment Day;
Married and keeping step—married and
mounting guard
O’er the faith of_a wife that holds him true,
nor knows him married and marred.
Single because her heart is his, his own until
the end,
The one reward he wav not lake, this man
that married her friend ;
Single to hold her body free, its spirit for
the skies,
That could but rest in an alien breast to die
as a captive dies;
So turns she to the stars, knowing the sun-
light gone,
And lie to the earth for the earthly kiss—
while she in his soul looks on.
VICTOBIA.
KETTLEDRUM.
The Broken Chain.
One rode from the west when the moon was
high,
Queen o’ stars in a windy sky,
And the hawthorn hedges smelled sweet,
smelled sweet,
And loud on the road were the bay mare’s
feet
The bay mare’s feet.
One rode from the East when the eve was
grey,
< arnielite of a gorgeous day,
Through the stealthy paths where the roe
deer lie
And the leaves have crowded out the sky.
The twilight sky.
One leaned from a lattice in the South,
With a lure of roses on hhr mouth.
And two soft lilies to make her breast
Where the little snakes of the gold chain
rest.
The gold snakes rest.
The one from the West when the moon was
white,
A glimmering ghost in the pools of night.
Had guessed how a rose smells sweet, smells
sweet,
So he muffled the sound of the bay mare’s
feet,
The bay mare’s feet.
The one from the East with his pallid look
Had parted the twigs in the forest nook.
Had caught a glimpse of a chain of gold
And a breast that breaks from a silken fold,
A silken fold.
One rode from the West when the moon was
high ;
One came where the great boughs blind the
sky;
And they met at dawn ip a silent place
Sword to dagger and face to face;
Face to face.
One rode to the West when the dawn was
red
And the last star died in the arc-h o erhead.
And the hawthorn hedges smelled sweet,
smelled sweet
And swift was the fall of the bay mare s
feet,
The bay mare’s feet.
And one with his eyes to the red East lay
Where the leaves were trod in the clinging
clay, , , ~
And his cloak was folded to hide a stain
And his fingers gripped on a broken chain,
A broken chain.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
Failure.
If I sit in ashes now.
Blame me, masters, an’ you will;
But remember when and how
High prediction sent my name
Sounding through the Halls of I ame.
One I know and two I know.
Yea, and twice a score of men,
Reaping where they do not sow —
Some a whirlwind, some a breeze
Blowing from Hesperides.
All my soaring soul had won.
All the hopes that flamed and flowered,
I,ike high clouds at set of sun—
Gaze-en thralling, roseate, bright
All have vanished in the night.
Who am I, and what am I? —
When your temple tumbles down,
And vour life-work turns awry—
Toiler, thinker, tried and true,
Poet, painter —I am you.
Broken swords and riven lyres.
Sunken ships and fallen towers.
Stricken trees and scattered fires,
Dark defeat and wearing woe —
These are all we have to show.
Savage rocks and winter gales
Wreck the dreaming mariner;
He who plants a forest fails
Where —by taking thought of weeds —
He who tills a plot succeeds.
Yet, no soul would be exempt
From the high, heroic call;
Failing triumnh, great attempt
Lifts the mind to mighty wings,
High above the height of kings.
Write me down and write me thus—
“ Here is one more futile star
In the high skies numerous
With his kindred —though he died
Earth is no less glorified.”
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


THE BEAUTIFUL-
BEETHOVEN.
991
22ZH2
THIS is a PIANO which will delight you
with its elegant appearance, its rich, splen-
did tone, and its strong construction.
It is an upright grand with exceptional rich-
ness of tone. It has seven octaves, is over-
strung (three strings), graffee bearing bridge
aifd full iron frame. In carved or oak panel,
with gallery ; it has three pedals, and double
sconces.
CALL IN and see for yourself—YOU CAN AFFORD to buy jt—we can arrange
easy terms for you if you do not care to pay cash —the price will recommend itself
to you.
If you CANNOT CALL, WRITE FOR OUR CATALOGUE AND PRICE-LIST.
Marcus Clark 8 Co. Ltd.,
CENTRAL SQUARE, SYDNEY.
DINNEFORD’S
Dinneford’s]
Magnesia
J
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
8 K FiTH ?
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
ONTNENOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred of “Hop’s” best drawings. Full
Bulletin size. Price, 21s.
POR
I
1
LAMPS
DRAWN TUNGSTEN WIRE
SAVE 15'- IN THE POUND
NO LAMPS TAKE LESS CURRENT
When buying your Garden
Hose see that you get the
best, and that is
Watershed
RED RUBBER GARDEN HOSE
Made in 60ft. Coils.
I x 3-ply 9d. per ft.
\ x 3-ply 1/- per ft.
1 x 3-ply 1/5 per ft.
Special Discount of Id. per
ft. allowed on all 30ft. or
60ft. lengths.
Sold by all leading store-
keepers and ironmongers!
throughout Australia; also,
wholesale and retail, by the
Manufacturers—
PERDRIAU
Rubber Co. Ltd.
270 George Street, Sydney.
Also MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
V
v.v.v*v
*r
The Accordeon with
MELLOW TONE
■ ■
Is just perfection for Song Accompaniments, Dance Music
and Picnics. The Organ-like Tone of these Instruments
is attained by the use of Bell Metal Reeds, which are hand-
fitted and tuned.
THREE POPULAR MODELG.
THE ORGAN TONED MELBA
3 Gets Bell Metal Reeds, price 22/6, post free.
THE DANCE KING
4 Gets Bell Metal Reed 6, price 30/-. post free
THE PICNIC MODEL.
2 Sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 15/-. post free
OTHER MODELS FROM 7/6 TO 40/-
For Free Catalogue No. 9 write to—
” 276 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
and also at Bendigo and Geelong.
The Australian
Magazine.
THE LONE NANP
The National
rionthlv, 6d.
W'c H'CLD J
■ \m& . fl&i? J:
m
r
COMMER MOTOR LORRIES
Again Victorious
At the 7th Annual Motor Parade of the Commercial Motor Users’ Association, in
London, on May 12, ‘Cotnmer” Lorries won high distinction. The 10 principal
makers of petrol chassis were represented by 201 vehicles of from SOcwt. to 5 tons
capacity. Of these Commers” totalled 41 cars—an average of over 20 per cent.
Ihe other nine makes ranged from 20 lorries down to 7. Fifteen “Commers” were
an aided pi izes a Hither proportion of honors than were received by any other
ma ke
Commer Driver Wins Championship
llie Championship Prize of £lO was won by the driver of a “Commer.” This car
has run over <OOO miles without mishap of any kind, and without a single replace-
ment. Tetrol consumption averaged no less than 151 miles per gallon. The gross
ton miles per gallon averaged the extremely high figure of S 2.
_ Commers are specially adapted for Australian needs and conditions. Anyone
interested in road transport should make early investigation of these cars. The
point of greatest significance is that “Commers” have gained their awards in the
country where they have been longest used.
JUST LANDED—3Ocwt. AND 2-TON MODELS
Full particulars will be sent post free, on request.
Agents also for Halley Motor Lorries. Capacity : 1 Ton to 6 Tons
DALGETY (EX CO. Ltd.
Motor Garage : 136= 138 Phillip Street, Sydney.
MELBOURNE : Bourke Street.
Agents Inr Daimler, Austin, Delaunay*
Belleville, Napier, Bulck, Opel, Cadillac,
Lacre Lorries and Halley Lorries.
BRISBANE: George Street.
Agents lor Daimler, Austin, Delaiinay-
BeHeville, •* F.N.,” Cuttlnc, Halley
Lorries and Lucre Lorries.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post) as a Newspaper.
Vol. 34.—N0. 1755.
THTJKSDAY. OCTOBER 2. 1913.
Price 6d.
AN ABSURD PROPOSITION.
AUSTRALIA: “Fancy trying to keep this protected with a decayed old gamp like mine.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.’’
Printed and published by William Mac-
Leod, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets,
Mosman. for The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214
George Street, Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: City 2389.
City 2390.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum . . . . ..£l6O
Half-yearly . . . . . . 0 13 6
Quarterly . . .. . . .. 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings Sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques. Drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some
care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. 'To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for "copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the form
of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short
Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Australian sub-
jects, and not exceeding two columns in length, or,
say, SOOt) words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions arc observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of
MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone Supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn- —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS. ,
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg ; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co.. Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., lffil Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros.. Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street.
San Francisco; C. IK. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A. ; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets. San Diego.
Cal.: Bay City Neivs Co.. San Francisco; Quaker
Neivs Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A. : IK. E. Lcnehan, 585
29th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn. Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Redder Street,
Ilong Kong.
Ceylon. — lK. G. P. Perera, 1G Baillie Street, Port
Colombo.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria. West Australia. Queensland. Tas-
mania and Npw Zealand; and on account of Messrs.
Atkinson and Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide —at
Iff6 per doz. nett.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6|in.
x 11/in.. and gelatine transparencies will be for-
warded on application. Larger metal plates can be
supplied if desired.
Postage Rates.
Single copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper):—Throughout the Commonwealth. New Zea-
land, Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, 10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, IGoz., Id. Only one newspaper should be en-
closed in each packet — otherwise: Boz., Id., Bioz.
to 10oz., 2id.; lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, J/oz.,
Id., and id. each additioanl 2oz.
fiuT^ixzli 7 e&n.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1913.
SKY-SCRAPERS, HOVELS, SHACKS
AND SUNDRIES.
The sky-scraper—that concern which looks
like the last long tooth in a dead man’s
head, and which conveys an impression that
the dead man had led a very bad life —
begins to be talked about as one of the
coming possibilities of Sydney. In Sydney,
more than in the majority of places of its
size, the question of space is urgent. It
is the principal port of a very large country
—in fact, few ports serve so big an area.
It is almost the only white man’s
city in the world which isn’t traversed by
a main line of railway, which has neither
an underground nor an overhead local rail-
way, and which lies among a network of
waterways without a single serviceable
bridge to carry the traffic where the traffic
is most dense." It crowds practically all its
rush of people into the streets, and the
streets are neither wide nor straight nor
well-planned. Many of them seem to have
been devised on the Chinese idea that
devils can only walk in a straight line, and
therefore the more tortuous the roads are
the fewer devils get in. It is more essential
in Sydney than in many places for the
worker to live near his work, because,
through lack of an efficient gondola
service on the Venetian plan, it is
so difficult for him to get to his work; and
by way of crowding more people into a
small space for this purpose occasional
buildings begin to creep skyward in a
grotesque and ungainly fashion. The real
sky-scraper—that lank monstrosity of 25
or more storeys, which tears the clouds
asunder with its top chimney and sticks its
lightning rod in the eye of the chief arch-
angel—hasn’t come yet, but there is talk
of it coming. Here and there small ex-
periments are being made.
In the circumstances it seems up to
Sydney to take stock of its resources. If
the main line of railway, instead of stopping
short at a dead-end station on an artificial
hump at Redfern, was carried through the
city and across a bridge to North Shore, it
would certainly make it easier for the
toiler to live in the remote suburbs and yet
get to and from his job in reasonable time.
A passenger bridge over the harbor and a
passenger subway beneath it would lend a
hand to the same good work. A local tube
railway system would assist materially. And
before there is talk of disfiguring the city
proper with the unholy and nefarious sky-
scraper it might be worth while to consider
how much of the existing space is wasted
through the inefficiency and incapacity of
Private Landlordism.
Castlereagh-street may be taken as a fair
examole. It is straight so far as it goes,
which is a merit that few of Sydney’s ways
possess. On the other hand, it is narrow,
and for a great part of its length it is un-
kempt and neglected. It should be a great
avenue of commerce, and instead it is a
great avenue of backwash. At the harbor
end, where it ought to make a gentle
descent to the water-side, some unspeakable
fool contrived to divert it uphill, so that
the tramcar, fleeing past the late office of
Nicholas Willis, gives the impression that
it is going to rush headlong into the bar of
the Hotel Metropole and demand sixpenn’-
orth of beer. Then, having gone
needlessly uphill, the vehicle of necessity
flees needlessly downhill as if it were bent
on committing suicide at Circular Quay.
Because of these superfluous ups and downs
—because of the narrowness, the untidiness,
the neglect and the shabby premises occu-
pied by herbalists and palmists—-Castle-
reagh-street, though it lies almost in the
heart of Sydney, is to a great extent a
wasted endeavor. On a recent day The
Bulletin sent a disguised agent to survey
this thoroughfare. Lie was disguised in a
false beard and half-a-pint of mixed drinks,
because he didn’t want to arouse ill-feeling.
He counted 203 distinct buildings between
Belmore Park and Llunter-street- —Hunter-
street being the place where the thorough-
fare goes mad and tries to bolt uphill into
the sixpenny bar of the Metropole. Of
these structures, one is of 12 storeys; two
are of nine storeys ; three of eight storeys ;
two of seven storeys ; eight of six storeys ;
15 of five storeys ; 29 of four storeys ; 58 of
three, storeys; 67 of two storeys; and 18
buildings are one-storey shacks which would
be good enough at Pooncarie or Milparinka.
but in the centre of Sydney they are out of
place. The one-storey buildings are, in most
cases, those which cover most ground, and
many of the old two- and three-storey con-
traptions are so squat and low-roofed that
they have only about half the light and air
and breathing space of modern premises of
the same tonnage. Incidentally, there are two
vacant allotments. Incidentally, The Bul-
letin’s agent was approaches, to the extent
of a cigar and a drink by a person who.
having observed him taking notes, thought
that he. was the advance agent of a great
resumption scheme, and wanted early in-
formation about the same. Presumably the
person intended to sell the information to a
property dealer.
* * * *
Castlereagh-street, in short, averages about
two or 2J storeys high, and a great deal of
it is. very old, and very rotten about the
flooring, and very skimpy and breathless
about the back yard. Private Landlordism
is a squalid, wasteful untidy brute, and
doesn’t know how to use a great city site.
If the place belonged to a single enlightened
authority—the Municipality, or a City Im-
provement Trust —these few things might
happen: (1) The street might be carried
straight through to Circular Quay, thereby
greatly reducing the gradients; (2) it
might be made three times the present
width, so as to allow of two tramway lines
and a double avenue of trees; and (3) it
might be. lined with fine buildings nine
storeys high, with roof gardens and other
traces of civilisation, thereby supplying far
more business accommodation than "there is
at present, despite the increase of road
space. That sort of reform would make for
order and beauty, but it can only be car-
ried out by public ownership. Private
ownership can’t get beyond the idea of
rushing up a discordant 25- or 40-storey
Flatiron Building alongside the hundred-
year-old one-storey hovel owned by an ob-
stinate patriarch named Smith or Mulli-
gan, who sticks to the place because his
great-grandfather built it before he was
hanged in the bad old convict days for
owning a horse that didn’t belong to him.
And the great, lone building is a blot on
the landscape. It looks like a tower of
assertion erected in the middle of a wilder-
ness of feeble protest and decayed rejoinder.
Elizabeth-street, Sydney, is a very similar
example of the wasted opportunity which
goeth before construction —the construction,
that is. of scattered architectural nuisances.
It contains two buildings of seven storeys ;
seven of six storeys; 10 of five storeys; and
22 of four storeys. Then the shacks and
hovels come in. There are 82 structures
only three storeys high ; 47 are two storeys
in altitude; and seven grovelling concerns
consist of a ground floor and nothing be-
yond that. One of these occupies the big-
gest allotment in the street. Also there is
one chronically vacant allotment disfigured
by a hoarding on which is published the
appeal to drink somebody’s pills, otherwise
you will fall down dead very often and be
buried for threepence. Elizabeth-street also
comes to an unaccountable end at Llunter-
street. and the tramcar turns two sharp
corners in about its own length, and goes
uphill into another bob-tailed street of
wasted prospects. It does this for no reason
whatsoever except that it may have a steeper
descent to negotiate at the end of the bob-
tailed highway, and that the outfit may
have a good chance to go off the rails at
the corner. Sydney’s old two-decker cars
were pleasant vehicles for summer wear.
The upper storey was airy, and raised high
above dust and dogs; and it also com-
manded a view of many bedroom windows,
through which the flapper could be seen
doing her back hair. But the two-decker
had such a fatal inclination to turn turtle
when negotiating some of the needless
angles already mentioned that it had to be
abandoned.
If Sydney possessed a comprehensive
scheme of reconstruction, and an authority
with sufficient power and energy to carry it
out, Castlereagh-street represents one of the
great chances. (There are plenty of others
about as good, but this one may be regarded
as a sample.) It could be acquired cheaply,
unless the people who effected the purchase
were shamefully swindled, for many of the
buildings it contains are worth a little less
than nothing, and are only tit to contain a
dog. It could be transformed into the finest
business street in Sydney, and its land
values could be increased so greatly by the
transformation -that the work would far
more than pay for itself. And it could be
made to hold about six times the business
that it does now, and to carry twice the
traffic that it does now. One great reason
why the population, of Sydney is shoved far
out into inaccessible suburbs is the amount
of space that is misused in the commercial
centre, and the space is wasted mostly by
reason of the fact that the inefficient pri-
vate landlord —who is often old, or mort-
gaged, or listless, or doesn’t know any bet-
ter, and is quite content to rack-rent his
old tenements and leave the work of repair
to posterity—is allowed to occupy any valu-
able site with a mere beehive or goat
stable. Every person of this sort compels
some toiler or another to walk or ride a
greater distance to his place of employment,
and makes him rise earlier and get home
later, and renders it more difficult for him
to find house accommodation. But if Sydney
is to be a city worth looking at, the remedy
doesn’t lie in permitting another variety of
private landlord to rush up, here and there,
in a narrow street and alongside a squat
hovel, some Tow°r of Babel with its head
in the welkin. The welkin is a great insti-
tution and ought to be considered. A
general reconstruction is required. Sydney
has bad a lot of reconstruction in recent
years, but it has been patchy and spasmodic,
and in consequence not very profitable.
Nobody drew a map of the new City-That-
Ought-To-Be as a basis to work upon,
so everything was disconnected and casual.
A policy which began with the formation of
an entirely new main thoroughfare would be
a masterful device. Castlereagh-street is
suggested as some raw material to work
upon.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Elective Ministries.
This paper has been getting a lot of letters,
of late, on the subject of Elective Ministries.
The following, from H. G. James, who
writes from the remotenesses of Queensland,
is fairly typical of the rest: —
Will you please tell us some more about Elective
Ministries? How would they be elected?
(1) By members of Parliament, from amongst
themselves ?
(2) By the people, from amongst M’s.P. ?
(3) By the M’s.P., from the people?
(4) By the people, from the people?
(5) How would the Prime Minister be elected or
appointed? Or, would there be a Prime Minister?
(6) If elected for a term, would there be any
method for removing any one of them before the
expiration of that term, if necessary ?
I don’t remember missing an election for this last
30 years, and have voted Labor since ’93, but I have
gone to the poll for the last time if the present
political tomfoolery is to continue.
The Bulletin’s original proposal of many
years ago—and one which it has seen no rea-
son since to turn down —is that Ministers
should be elected by members of one House
from amongst themselves. They would be
as securely fixed in their positions for the
life of each Parliament as judges are for
their own lives. That is to say, they could not
be removed, unless they were proved legally
to be corrupt or insane. The defeat of a
Ministerial measure would not hold up the
entire business of Government, and put the
country to the worry and expense of a gen-
eral election. Simply, the Minister would
abandon that measure, or hold it over till
the opinion of the House grew more favor-
able to it, and in the meanwhile pass on to
the next item on his legislative menu. By
this, means every fresh proposal would get a
meticulously fair deal. Since no one would
have anything material to gain either by its
defeat or its success, each Bill would attract
an unbiassed type of criticism that is simply
impossible under present conditions, where
what is known as “party loyalty” compels
politicians to, in effect, perjure themselves
publicly as a matter of so-called duty. If
Brown, M.L.A. and WADE-ite. thought a
Holman scheme a good one, he would be
able to vote accordingly, and so save his pos-
sibly tender conscience from outrage, since
by so doing he would in no wise be preju-
dicing his leader. This would make for inde-
pendence of spirit and honesty of conduct—
two assets which are markedly lacking in
the case of the politician of to-day. Another
boon would accrue in the elimination of
the Levy-Fitzpatriok-Meeiian class of
statesman. These human calamities are
specialists in one political line and
one only—namely, the abuse-and-insult
business. Faced with the necessity of deal-
ing with measures, in place of the facial
peculiarities, financial embarrassments and
so forth of the men responsible for those
measures, they would be silenced. A holy
calm would descend on the Assembly. It
would become less like a permanent dog-
fight, and more like a sane place of busi-
ness. The first objection to the grafting of
an Elective Ministry system on to our
present scheme of Party Government is
that the Ministry would inevitably be
chosen on party lines, as of yore. But" what
if it were? Its views would presumably
reflect the views of the electors. Its mea-
sures would be the measures the country
had demanded. The only difference would
be that the State would get the legislation
it had authorised at the polls in quicker
time, and with less discreditable p nP r
mentary uproar and recrimination lla ;
more serious criticism is that most of a, A
tralias Parliaments have grown so Lit Us *
intellectually and otherwise as ? r ten ’
outcome of the party selection system
ramp, that it would not be nossiifi or
elect a really satisfactory to
any one of them The constituencies sfe
under the disability of being represent \
largely by persons who, in any r ted
of the term are not representatives at S
As Sydney Telegraph put it (5/9/13) C!
We have now reached a state at °
of Parliament are r.o longer returned in the' n ® mber s
contemplated by the laws that exist for
fair poll of the electors. The nal election iTlTth
party selection committees. !fte
The advocates of Elective Ministries well
appreciate the difficulties of the position in
this connection. Nothing of a brilliantly
successful nature is going to be achieved
possibly, till Party Government has diwn
peared. _ But under the Elective Ministrv
system it would be likely to disappear quite
rapidly. In fact, the tendency of the l
posed innovation would be to kill it deader
than anything else. When the Levys amt
Fitzpatricks of politics had no leader to
curse for—and that would be their painful
position, since each successive Bill would
be either turned down or accepted, without
reference to the alleged advisability of its
originator being forthwith lodged in gaol for
arson, fraud and robbing the orphan—their
occupation, so far as concerned Parliament
would be gone. They would wilt like
flowers deprived of liquid and other susten-
ance. Their utter uselessness would pre-
sently become apparent to their constitu-
ents. They would be bumped out of their
seats and replaced by men of intelligence
and creative ability. The party army de-
prived as it would be of any sort of objec-
tive, would grow more and more disorgan-
ised. A Parliament of Independents would
arise. And after the Tory papers had re-
covered from their swoon at the realisation
of the horrible fact, they would loudly
acclaim the change; remarking that they
had pointed out all along that there was
no more logical reason why every member of
a legislative body should not be free to
speak his mind, and act accordingly, than
that a member of a reputable city Board
should be required, as a matter of habit, to
swallow his real opinions, lie, act against
his convictions, and generally stultify him-
self.
The Haystack that Blew the Wrong
Way.
On the mainland of Australia the struggle
to drag all foreign export and import trade
to a few capital cities is a very in-
tense effort these days. There always has
been a good deal of that concentration
disease about, but it becomes aggravated
with the passage of years. In every one of
the five continental States there is one port
which contrives to grab more business than
all the others put together, and when it
is considered that the smallest of these
States is much bigger than England, while
the largest is more than 19 times the size of
England, this represents a very wonderful
compression of people into one city, or a
very wonderful amount of extra handling
and conveyance of goods, so that the foreign
trade may be almost entirely crowded into
one city, or else a very wonderful quantity
of both. For little England, which is
30,000 square miles smaller than Victoria,
has four great ports—London, Liverpool,
Cardiff and the Tyne—which run so level
in the matter of foreign trade that the big-
gest of them, in 1911, stood for 24,000,000
tons of shipping, and the smallest for
15,000.000 tons. And there were 14 other
English ports (apart from those of Ireland
and Scotland) with enough foreign business
to be worth recording. On the other hand,
this is the value of Australia’s commerce,
put in terms of money :
Imports and Exports.
1911. 1912. Increase.
Sydney .. £57,070,338 £62,528,388 £5,458,050
Other N.S.W. ports 2,433,'515 2,733,265 299,750
Melbourne . . 39,4 2 0,8 0 7 4 3,175,39 6 3,754,589
Decrease.
Other Vic. ports 1,3 4 5,8 7 2 1,0 1 8,7 9 9 327,073
Increase.
Brisbane . . 10,572,975 12,323,470 1,750,495
Other Q. ports 4,028,549 4,342,921 314,372
■ Adelaide . . 11,863,401 12,633,121 769,720
Decrease.
Other S.A. ports 4,583,945 3,954,923 629,022
Fremantle .. 11,296,415 10,887,341 409,074
Other W.A. ports 2,387,146 2,070,758 316,388
It is a rather striking collection of figures.
The whole foreign trade of N.S.W. outside
Sydney is done at Newcastle. That place
has to be allowed to exist because it is the
one great coal port in Australia, and coal
that is intended for export to foreign coun-
tries can’t stand the cost of a 100-miles
railway jouimey. But, apart from New-
castle, the foreign trade of every N.S.yV.
harbor outside Sydney has been killed quite
dead by the denial of railway communica-
tion. And in Victoria and S.A. the trade
rf the outlying places is being killed. In
Westralia the decline of the small ports is
possibly only a part of the general decline,
due to the decay of the goldfields, but there
isn’t much foreign trade at the centres
which haven’t the luck to be Perth very
little indeed, considering the stupendou
length of the coast-line —and they are ge "
ting far more than their fair share ot tn
slump. Queensland has, to some exten ,
kept away the congestion disease, and it
outports make by far the best showing, bo
as regards the amount of trade and tne
crease of trade. Still, even it is no e P
tion to the lamentable fact that in e ' ■
State there is one bloated and favored ce
which possesses more trade —from a
three times to fully 40 times more
than all the unbloated and unfavored ce
put together. Furthermore, in N>.yv •
one bloated port shows £5,100,009 ,
increase (giving the amount in
figures) than all the other P° rts ; ver
bourne has improved its lead oy
£4,000.000. Brisbane managed to get ov
£1,400.000 further ahead. In S. Austral
the big port beats all its rivals in th n ‘ And
of expansion by nearly ii.4W.uuu. -
in Westralia, where there is ajsener gg
crease, the percentage of t t mes
already pointed out. is more than t
as large in the multitude of smal ports
in the solitary large one. Taking the flgun
as a whole, this is the result; . 1Q11 .x9i2).
Aggregate Increase of Trade (1 323,780
The five Bloated Ports .. •• ’’ 1912).
Aggregate Decrease of Trade (1 £658,361
All the Other Ports


Extraordinary Announcement to Agents.
Christmas Edition of
The Bulletin, 1913.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE that the
CHRISTMAS NUMBER of “THE
BULLETIN” will be an EXTRA
and SPECIAL ISSUE.
Date of Publication: December 13, 1913.
This SPECIAL NUMBER will con-
tain high-class Stories, Verse and other
Literary Contributions from foremost
Australasian writers.
The Illustrations will be supplied by
the popular Bulletin artists, and
others in the front rank of the artistic
world.
The Ordinary Issue of THE BULLETIN
will be published on the usual uate.
Agents are requested to note
that, as the Christmas Number of
“The Bulletin” is now going to
press, the orders that reach us from
now on will be treated in order of
priority.
Foreign trade is not all that the Freetrade
push imagines it to be. It isn’t the great
essential of life, nor is it the chief end of
man as the catechism has it; nor is it the
beginning and end of things. But it is a
straw (in fact, it is almost large enough to
be a haystack) which tends to show how
the wind blows. And for a country which
so badly needs to fill up its empty spaces it
is impossible to avoid a suspicion that ’in
the aggregate, this haystack is blowing the
wrong way.
The “Blot of Race Suicide.”
The poor old birth-rate had another brick
thrown at it in the course of the recent
Church Congress at Brisbane. It is always
suffering from bricks. The Bishop of
Riverina spoke unkindly of the defenceless
animal, and said that, since he came to
Austialia, 30 years ago, it had fallen from
352 to 267 per 10,000 people. And the
Sydney Telegraph headed his remarks:
“Dark Blot of Race Suicide,” as if there was
any such thing as a light blot of suicide.
Just here it is worth while remarking again
to the people who weep so bitterly about
the “decline” that the thing, however bad it
may be, isn’t quite what the ignorant take
it for, and shouldn’t be abused. promiscu-
ously. It should at least get a fair trial be-
fore an unbiased judge and a jury ot 1-
Blots. Any bloodthirsty and boundless
despot could about double the birth-rate in-
side a year—by killing off every woman
aged more than 50 and every man aged over
60; also, by slaying all lunatics and chronic
invalids, and by hanging all long-sentence
prisoners. There was a time, not very long
ago, when people died so young, through
lack of drains and medical science, that
almost every adult was of thq reproductive
age. Even in the early days of Charles
Dickens this was the case, though
Dickens lived not very far back. He
regarded his own creation, Samuel Pick-
wick, as an old gentleman, though he was
only in his forties. An historian of the Jime
of Ezzelino 111. of Verona considered that
ruler as a marvel when he leu his army in
person at the age of 55. He ought to have
doddered bald-headedlv into his grave before
then. Of course there were old men, just
as there were, and still are, old pyramids,
but even in fairly recent times one lot was
a.bout as rare as the other. Now, instead
ot JJo adults out of 1000 being of the repro-
ductive age, it is quite common, in a healthy
and civilised country, where they don’t bury
a lady alive for being no longer capable of
child-bearing, or shoot a bishop when he
seems too old to become the father of any
more curates, for the number to be as low
as 700. That reduces the birth-rate in an
alarming fashion. Then far more children
are kept alive than formerly, and that also
reduces the birth-rate, though the average
bishop may not see it. Assume a com-
munity of 10,000 people—3ooo healthy
children who are too young for marriage,
-000 vigorous old people who are past the
reproductive age but are still a credit to the
community and of some service to the
nation, and 5000 others. There the arrival
of 200 children in a year would mean a
very humble birth-rate of 20 per 1000. But
if the 3000 healthy children and the 2000
vigorous _ old people were killed off by
famine, dirt, murder, lack of medical science,
or any other cause, the same birth-rate
would be 40 per 1000, which is a very hand-
some figure, and calculated to make the
Church feel good. It is a solemn fact that
a most energetic uplifter of the birth-rate
was llerod, of Judaea, who massacred the
children at Bethlehem ; yet no cleric speaks
kindly of him, or subscribes his gaiters to-
wards the cost of a monument. On the
< they hand men who did bad service to the
birth-rate were the founders of Benevolent
Asylums and Old Men’s Homes, the kind-
hearted folk who left cottages and endow-
ments for aged citizens, the builders of Re-
fuges for Incurables (anybody can raise the
birth-rate by shooting an Incurable, and he
can further help it along by shooting two
Incurables), and the politicians who de-
vised Old Age Pensions (to hit an Old Age
Pensioner hard enough with an axe raises
the birth-rate). All these points ought to
be taken into consideration. The popula-
tion of England and Wales has increased
several hundreds per cent, in 110 years.
That is to say, that from Chaos to 1801 the
country accumulated less than 9.000,000
people, while between 1801 and 1911 it
added on over 27,000.000 people, and srot
into such a condition that the whole nation
could be starved out by two months of
blockade. Yet there are people in England
—bishops and others —who reckon the birth-
rate should be shoved ahead. Australia
certainly wants white population very badly
for defence nnrposes, but then its position
is unique. When birth-rate fanatics start
preaching their gospel promiscuously, they
are a nuisance, and a very illogical nuisance
at that.
Boer Tactics.
Dear Bulletin, —The threatened rebellion
of against the British Govern-
ment possesses many humorous features.
One of them is the resolve to adopt “Boer
tactics,” when part of Belfast and a bit of
Londonderry and some country around take
up arms against the crown and dignity of
George V. The resolve shows the copyist’s
mind, and a very poor specimen thereof.
The Boer war is probably the last military
event that these people have any definite
knowledge of, and the methods of the
Farmers’ Army in South Africa were fairly
successful —at least they enabled a mere
handful of men, mostly pastoralists and agri-
culturists, to Hold a great empire at bay for
a very long time, and finally force it to a
favorable compromise. Therefore Ulster
proposes to follow this good example, just
as it might decide to follow the methods of
Nelson at Trafalgar, if Trafalgar was the
last big event that the surging amateur in-
surgents of Belfast had in their minds.
But the Boer tactics were simply the
natural devices of a small but warlike, and
very adaptable race, which had long de-
fended a vast country against heavy odds,
and which, in its last great struggle, had to
reduce its risks to a minimum because it
had no reserves. Its great spaces were a
valuable asset, and the proceedings were
probably the best that could be employed.
They were really an adaptation of the policy
by which the Parthians wiped out Crassus.
But for an inexperienced army, largely com-
posed of indoor toilers, hghting mostly, on
foot, in a small, densely-populated region,
they look like pure lunacy. . The nearest
possible approach to them in Antrim or
Down would be murder done surreptitiously
from behind a pigsty. It is a fool-com-
mander who doesn’t know how to suit his
military scheme to local conditions and cir-
cumstances. The recent Balkan war
couldn’t have been fought on Boer prin-
ciples from sheer want of space, and a
Boer commander leading an infantry force
in Belgium would have to find a new set of
principles, or go under in a week. When
the Austrian admiral Tegetthof led the
last wooden fleet —and a rather poor one at
that —with success against the first great
ironclad fleet at Lissa, he employed methods
which had seldom been used before, and
which have never been used since, and they
are never likely to be used any more. He
simply dug out ideas to meet a fresh set of
almost impossible-looking conditions, and
staggered his enemv to death by his
audacitv. If he had imitated Drake
or Nelson he might have lasted
10 minutes. One London paper, m
forecasting events, allowed him about
that. Similarly, when Barclay de Tolly
made things eminently unpleasant for
Napoleon, and did it with an inferior force
spread along a line which was some 20 days’
journey from end to end, his doings sug-
gested a curious mixture of those of the
modern general and the flying Pindaree
marauder. Still they were suited to the
conditions, and achieved an amazing amount
of damage. The strength of the Boer tac-
tics lay in the fact that the men had no
places to defend which could be even ap-
proached by a fleet, that they were good
riders, good shots, had a fair knowledge ot
war were accustomed —most of them —to
an open-air life, and could do an amazing
amount of duty, in proportion to their
scarcity, by the speed with which they
covered great distances. Now Belfast and
Derry are both open to the sea. Carson s
sedentary infantry, who, in many cases,
have even drilled indoors, can’t flee over the
countrvside like Cronje’s semi-regulars or
De Wet’s raiders. And, if they could do
so they haven’t the space to flee over. They
would'be like Cossacks riding madly on a
tea-tray. Two or three hours of Boer tac-
tics would either land them in the enemy’s
country, where they would be ambushed by
Home Rulers, or else drop them in the sea. It
would all depend on the direction in which
they happened to Boer —or to Boer-tactic,
whichever it may be called. —Yours, etc.,
Henry Horsecollar.
♦
Another Blow in the Old Place.
Socialism, the invention of the party that
decorates himself with horns and a barbed
tail, is continuing to be a menace in this
country. The Defence Department has been
investigating its operations in the harness,
saddlery and leather-accoutrements factory
during the year ended June, 1912, and has
discovered that Sosh is doing its very worst
to old Private Enterprise. This in despite
of the fact that owing to the difficulty ex-
perienced in obtaining adequate supplies of
material from Private Enterprise the Sosh
factory was on several occasions almost held
up and work had to be handled four or five
times instead of only once. This handicap
materially increased the cost of production,
yet, in a list of 30 articles of cadet
accoutrements, harness and saddlery, Sosh’s
average factory cost, compared with the
average prices paid to P.E. contractors about
the same time, was lower in 24 instances,
equal once and higher five times. A few
samples:—
Sosh P.E.
Factory Contract
Price. Price.
£ s. d. £ s. d.
Neckpiece (harness) . . 11 9 13 3
Traces, wire, long, pair . . 2 4 0 2 9 6
Traces, wire, short, pair . . 10 0 1 3 10
Leggings, drivers, each . . 9 0 11 0
Straps, collar pad, pair . . 7 10
Whips, drivers, each . . 2 11 3 11
Pannels, numnah, pairs . . 6 0 7 5
The Sosh clothing factory also handed a
wallop to the Enterprise Pirate. Naturally,
as with all new undertakings, the cost of
production in this branch was at its maxi-
mum during the early stages; also, in the
case of greatcoats, material sold to con-
tractors at 6s. 3d. a yard was debited to
the national factory at 7s. a yard. Never-
theless, while the contract prices for great-
coats from July 1, 1911, to June 30, 1912,
ranged from 275. to 335. 9d., the average
cost of production by Sosh, up to June 30,
1912, was 365., and the average cost for the
quarter ended September 30, 1912, was 31s.
6d. Allowing 2s. sd. per coat as the differ-
ence in price of material to the competitors,
the average cost of production under Sosh’s
management after a few months’ experience
amounted to 295. Id. In regard to breeches
(khaki cord), the contract prices of P.
Enterprise from July 1, 1911, to June 30,
1912, were 14s. and 14s. lOd. The average
cost of production by the policy of the Devil
was, in the early stages (to June 30, 1912),
14s. 6d. and 355. 6d., and, later, 11s. 9d.
P.E. contracted to produce khaki woollen
shirts, without shoulder straps, at 9s. 9d.,
10s., and 10s. 6d. Sosh started off to make
them at 10s. 6d., and is now doing them at
not more than Bs. Same shirts with straps
were on P.E.’s list at 9s. 6d., 10s. 9d., and
11s. 6d. Sosh is averaging them at 10s.
Further, it is practically certain, according
to the factory manager, that in connection
with the general cost of production, the
prices will drop at least 10 per cent, during
the current financial year owing to lessened
expenses combined with increased output.
Apparently, Private Enterprise isn’t so
much in danger of being driven out of the
country nowadays as it is of being left
behind the procession along with the empty
tins and dead marines.
The Dredge Devil.
Melb. Age has blurted out the interesting
fact that the Victorian Dredging In-
quiry Board is suspected of killing time in
the interests of “persons in high places.”
The dredgers continue to do their damnable
work in their own dirty way, whilst the
Government directly, or indirectly, prevents
such an exposure of the truth about dredg-
ing as would make its prohibition necessary
to the Government’s safety. In short, the
Victorian water courses are fouled, and the
banks of them are converted from fertile
country into barren sludge land, in order that
political persons may get some of the gold
which had been stuck in the mud for ages
and should never have been brought to light.
Devastating dredges have no friends save
the people financially concerned in their
wicked operations. Gold-mining, though
not the glorified business it used to be, is
still a popular form of earth-spoliation, and
coal-mining, despite its griminess, will have
the blessing of mankind until coal is happily
expelled from its present spheres of useful-
ness. But dredging rivers for gold ! It is a
blighting industry, a sin against Nature, a
burning shame upon the powers that be.
The brutal selfishness of Private Enterprise
can no further go than in this ruthless de-
struction of public property, this poisoning
of precious streams and smothering of much
precious soil to find a little precious metal,
which is precious little as a rule. For every
pound of the country’s loss the dredger gets
a ha’porth of gain, and whilst patriotism
stands aghast at this iniquity the Watt
Government sits winking its' other eye.
A Protest or Curse or Something.
This is the denunciation of “G.M.” :
A. W. Pearse, of the Pastoealists’ Review, has
been fouling Australia, and especially the Australian
railways, in the London Financial News. “If,”
says Pearse, “Australia had left business concerns
such as railways- to Private Enterprise, as in Argen-
tina and Canada, she would have progressed in popu-
lation and trade. Take our wool and meat away, and
we are nothing!” Now, here are two misleading
statements or insinuations: First, that Australia has
not progressed in population and trade ; and, secondly,
that the pastoral industry, i.e., the raising of wool
and meat, is the only industry in Australia, and that
this country would be nothing without it.
These two yarns are easy enough of disproof. To
begin with, the population of Australia practically
commenced 113 years ago—that is to say, it had,
in 1790, 2056 white people, and that is near enough
the commencement. Canada laid the foundations of
its first white man’s city (Quebec) in 1608 —305
years ago. Argentina became a white settlement in
1553 —360 years ago. Now, in one-third the time
the Commonwealth has accumulated very much more
than half the population that its two much-adver-
tised Private Enterprise rivals can show, and if that
isn’t gathering peonle it is at least doing a trifle
towards it. Australia has wiped off about 100 years
of Canada’s long start, and about 150 years of Argen-
tina’s, which says some trifle for State Enterprise.
Nowadays it can show the best effective birthrate in
the world, so affairs are still moving.
As regards' Pearse’s inference that this Common-
wealth hasn’t progressed in the matter of trade by
reason of Public Enterprise, the solemn fact is that
its exports and imports are far bigger, in propor-
tion to population, than those of either Canada or
Argentina. In the matter of exports, according
to the latest available figures, it beats Canada not
only per head but in the lump, and as a shipowner
it beats Argentina out of sight.
Pearse’s next statement: “Take our wool and meat
away and we are nothing,” is likewise balderdash,
and very bald at that. According to the latest figures
I can lay my hands on (1911), the value of the
Commonwealth’s production was £188,745,000.
And of this wool and meat and hides and horns and
hoofs and the whole blessed pastoral industry stood
for £50,725,000 —or not much more than one-fourth
of the lot. It was beaten badly by the single item
of manufactures, and it was a decaying affair, which
manufacture was not. Could gross misrepresenta-
tion go much further than this ?
In conclusion, why do people like Pearse exist?
What use are they ? And why will they hang on
like grim death to Australia, if Canada and Argen-
tina are so much better?
Up to time of writing tlis disturbance be-
tween ex-Premier Wade of N.S.W. and
Minister Griffith of the same place re-
mains in an unfinished condition. Wade,
in the Assembly, accused Griffith of some
kind of dishonesty or corruption. The
Assembly acquitted Griffith by the regular
Government majority. The acquittal didn’t
prove that all was right with Griffith’s
character, because the vote was a purely
party affair. The accusation didn’t prove
that anything was wrong with Griffith’s
character because there were no witnesses,
no cross-examination, and none of the for-
malities of a trial. It was merely a matter
of general recrimination or backyard
squabble. Griffith challenged Wade to
repeat his remarks outside, where they
wouldn’t be covered by Parliamentary privi-
lege, and take the consequences. Wade
didn’t, but he promised, if Griffith would
sue him, not to plead Parliamentary privi-
lege, and told Griffith to bring along his
consequences. That looked like a half-
measure, for he couldn’t wholly divest him-
self of his Parliamentary privilege, and if
things went wrong he had the power to
shelter behind it after all should he happen
to feel that way. Still it would be political
ruin to do a thing like that. Griffith
thereupon plunged at Wade with a lawyer’s
letter — not about the recent charges, but
about an accusation of rack-renting made
against him by Wade nearly two years ago,
and now almost dead. If the corruption
charge comes into court each combatant lays
down certain rules for the duel, and neither
seems wildly applausive about the other
fellow’s rules. So, up to time of writing,
the pair have waved their brollies at each
other afar off. In the Dark Ages they
would have been ordered to- jump off the
tower of the Sydney G.P.0., the oqe who
hit the ground first to win. And\ there
would have been no Costs. Now all is
barney, brolly-flourishment and probabilities
of Costs. \
Said “sporting” Charlie Wade, in Ma's
Assembly the other night, in reply to a
charge that he was a false pretence hero in
connection with the Mount Kembla dis-
aster :
I was engaged in Wollongong. .. .and the whole
Court went to Mount Kembla. .. .and all, without
asking a question, never thinking of the risk in-
volved, put their names down to go where they were
told and when they were told. They were all volun-
teers.... for the work of rescue inside the mine, but
the gas was dangerous and the work was confined to
five or six of the most experienced men —those skilled
in mine rescue. That is the whole of the story. /
never claimed, any credit over this matter. . . .It is
very easy for hon. members to concoct a position—•
to make an imaginary case and then turn round and
say, “It does not fit him, and, therefore, he is a
fraud.” Hon. members, if they want to be honest and
fair, should take the facts as they stand. I have
MADE NO CLAIM.
Jusso; and the fact that Wade made no
claim was another way of doubling the
claim. He was credited with the two great
virtues of a hero —conspicuous gallantry and
consnicuous modesty. When the Sydney
press during last State elections was print-
ing the highest eulogies of his efforts on
behalf of his fellow-man the case was put
for him both in the Herald and Telegraph
thus
What more heroic or humanely human deed can
his detractors point to than the straightforward
story so simply told in vour columns a few days ago
by an eye-witness of Mr. Wade’s prompt sponta-
neity in leaving his case in the Wollongong Court [as
a matter of fact, the Court adjourned], and, with
Martyn McCabe, rushing into a place of fiery fur-
nace into'the coalmine of Kembla to help in rescu-
ing the stricken miners personally unknown to him?
On that occasion, as on many other such,
Wade made no claim for a tribute of public
applause. Nor, when the embittered Car-
ruthers, presumably with his tongue in his
cheek, bracketed Wade at a great banquet
in the Sydney Town Hall with the heroic
work of rescue by McCabe, who lost his
life in the mine and had a monument
erected to him, had Wade made any claim
for the almost hysterical outbreak in his
honor. He never asked for the hero’s spot
light. But apparently a team of bullocks
couldn’t shift him from under it until the
curtain was rung down.
The Loanatics.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
After Mr. Holman and Mr. Morton had been pre-
sented with silver trowels and the stones had been
declared “well and tiuly laid,” the Premier ex-
tended to the people of the town and district his con-
gratulations on the great, etc. “We are,” he said
“a State in the very heyday of a vigor, s and buoy-
ant youth. The institutions of yesterday must neces-
sarily pass away and be replaced by others. Our
motto must be Took forward,’ for the future is ours.
We have no feelings but those of recognition and
gratitude, so far as the past is concerned. But the
past is gone ; the present is with us ; and the future
is before us. We are prepared for the problems of
the morrow and ready to deal with them as the
pioneers dealt with the problems of the past.” (Ap-
plause.)—News item.
But there is a tendency to weakness in Australian
inscribed stocks, which is doubtless accounted for by
the probability of a further influx of new Australian
loans. Victoria has borrowed during the current
week, and probably, within a comparatively short
time, we shall find other States on that market, as
they certainly want the money.— More news item.
The Future is Ours, camerados ; the Future
is Ours !
(Will you kindly repeat that until you have
got it by heart.)
The great, glowing Future —with much
larger borrowing powers !
Three cheers, camerados, six beers and a
bouquet of flowers
For Whooperup Holman, our Premier, who
visibly towers
O’er all the dwarf boomsters who once drove
Ma’s Policy Cart 1
The Past is gone by, camerados; the Past
is gone by !
(I beg you will all make a sure mental note
of the fact).
But we are still here —Arthur, Jimmy,
Carmichael and I
And while there’s a loan on the market we'll
never say die!
If we can’t square a circle, at least we can
drain old Bull dry.
And that’s a performance that knocks out
the Past in one act!
The Present is here, camerados—the Present
is here!
(If anyone doubts it, ’tis easily put to the
proof.)
The rain keeps away in a manner decidedly
queer.
And the burden of living grows quite un-
accountably dear —
But it isn’t the fault of the Past, or the
Future —no fear !
On the word of a — er —statesman, it’s due
to the Tightness of Oof!
The tightness of Oof, camerados—the tight-
ness of Oof!
(The Market shows signs of a most repre-
hensible Jag.)
For some reason or other good Uncle is hold-
ing aloof;
He*s doing so —a true friend —on our special
behoof;
And he’s hoisted the Banner of Discount
well up to the roof;
But we wish he’d allow us to put just one
hand in his Bag !
For buoyant, we are, camerados —and vigor-
ous, too!
(Will anyone here in the audience say we
are not?)
We stand here to-night as the Champion
Borrowing Crew !
There’s no given sum —ay! or borrowed —
that we couldn’t blew ;
And we’ll spend it to-morrow —or next day,
if that wouldn’t do !. .. .
The pioneers? Bosh! They were quite a
contemptible lot!
Look at our trowels, camerados —just look
at our trowels!
(Plain silver —not gold, like O’Malley’s,
but still very chic.)
The sign of our works —and our faith that
our prayers and our howls
For further advances may move the avuncu-
lar bowels —
Ye gods! if they don’t, we shall greatly
resemble boiled owls!
Still, the Future is Ours — but it’s got to be
•here pretty quick!
N.S.W.
MONTY PEET.


THE POLICY OF THE GOVERNMENT
IS BACKED BY THE SOUND
JUDGMENT OE THE PEOPLE.
“A WHITE AUSTRALIA”
. . . and . . .
“MACKIE'S
WHITE HORSE WHISKY.”
A GRAND DOUBLE.
1768
Estab
Estab 1742
Direction
W. BARRINGTON MILLER.
FLASHING COLOR. SPARKLING HUMOR.
WIT THAT’S KEEN, AND MUSIC THAT APPEALS.
THE BUTTERFLIES.”
Jack Waller’s Happy “Flight of Fancy.”
Presented by Fred McCrea.
“The laughter ripples always like a summer sea upon the golden sands.
A NEW PROGRAM THIS WEEK.
S. M. Herald (Sept&mber 29) : “The change of program by this talented little group of perform
ers found a delighted acceptance from a crowded house.”
The Butterflies “Potted Plays” compel whole-souled hilarity b>
their exquisite drollery.
THE LITTLE THEATRE
(Castlereagh Street, between Liverpool and Bathurst Streets, Sydney)*
Every Night at 8. Matinee, Thursday Afternoon at 2. Children HaU-price at Matinees 0
Prices —3/-. 2/-, 1 /-; Reserved 4/- Plan at Palings.
From Melbourne
Vic. Premier Watt’s new Bill for the creation
of a Greater Melbourne Council groups most of the
24 metropolitan municipalities together, and hands
to some groups three, to some two representatives,
and to others one in a council of 30. But to Mel-
bourne city Watt allows five. These councillors are
all to be elected trienniallv, and are to be unpaid.
However, the chairman, who must be one of them-
selves, is to get £lOOO a year. Councillors must
be qualified as voters, that is all, and may be of
either sex, or Wowsers. The franchise is to be the
same as for municipal councils —occupiers or owners,
under £5O value, one vote; over £5O and under
£lOO, two votes; over £lOO, three votes —but with
the restriction that no elector may vote in more
than one ward or division. This looks like adult
ratepaying suffrage, but, in effect, it means that
Dives will have one vote for himself and another for
his wife, while Lazarus will never have more than
one, and often none at all. Also, a property-owner
can pay promptly the rates on the house he lives in
—and get his vote—while he can leave overdue the
rates on 20 tenanted houses, whose occupants will
thereby be disfranchised. As soon as the Council is
constituted, it is to set about taking over the func-
tions of the Board of Shirks, the tramways, parks
and gardens, electric light and power, gas, hackney
carriages and carters. Later on, but within 12
months, it will bog into the matters of fire-extinction,
control of markets, abattoirs, saleyards, meat suner-
vision, reclamation, etc. To carry on, it may levy
special and general rates up to 2s. in the £1 —2d.
higher than the rate to which the present Board of
Shirks is limited. When it takes over the abattoirs,
markets and gas, electric and tramway services, it
must divide any profits among the whole of the
metropolitan citizens —presumably per a lowering of
the rates—not among the citizens of the councils
directly interested or concerned. (This will raise a
fearsome howl from the city and inner suburban
councils.) The new body, when it gets properly
going (if ever it does), may regulate buildings, the
sizes of allotments, traffic and a host of other small
things. Also, it is specially empowered to prescribe
routes and areas where motor-’buses may not run —
with a view to conserving its legal monopoly in
tramway traffic. (This will also raise a fearsome
howl from certain parties unnamed.) Taking it all
round, Watt’s Bill is a fairly progressive effort.
But what it will be like when the Country Party
and the House of Rich Landlords have done “review-
ing” it, “Liberalism” only knows.
♦
“Rule Nisi,” being angered because lie
didn’t get the job himself, foams on paper :
The Holman (N.S.W.) Government is in trouble over
its Consolidation of the Land Acts. It is admitted
that Canaway, as senior counsel, and Coffee, as
junior, draw 5000 and 2500 guineas respectively for
doing the job in their spare time. The Liberal party
says this is really too liberal, although last time
consolidation of the statutes was put in hand (by the
Liberals). Judge Heydon undertook the work for
10,000 nlunks, including the pay of the Junior Bar,
who did the “devilling.” The actual cost to the
country will never be known. The consolidators made
a crop of “bloomers” which have plunged the country
into seas of litigation, again to the benefit of the
Junior Bar. One “howler” in the Public Service
Consolidated Act, where the words, “This Act” were
reprinted instead of “That Act,” has given several
hundreds of deserving public servants seven years
gratuities, which, before the Consolidation, they
hadn’t a hope of getting.
The Australian Navy intends evidently
to adhere to at least one grand old Im-
perial precedent—namely, that of plodding
into every port punctually in time for the
local race-week festivities. The opening of
the Spring meeting at Randwick and the
arrival of the Commonwealth’s new battle-
ships in Port Jackson synchronise almost
to a minute. If this time-honored custom
of the lads who, for decades, have braved
the bookie and the bar in every big Aus-
tralian port, is persisted in by our new de-
fenders, the alien invader should have a
soft thing on when he decides to call here
on serious business. His position will re-
semble that of the pug who knows a sure
guard for his adversary’s only effective hit.
That is to say, the Jap or Chow who wants
to effect a landing in the North will merely
have to get up steam early in November,
when the entire blessed navy will be de-
fending the country between Flemington
Racecourse, the Melbourne Club and Govern-
ment House. The venture will be an abso-
lute cinch.
Further particulars from “Jeames” :
The embroglio at N. S. Wales Government House
has taken on an altered complexion. Captain Talbot,
A.D.C., was in the very act of joyfully packing up
his effects, preparatory to a dash for England, peace
and liberty, when the was faced by an agreement,
signed by himself, pledging him to remain in service
for a certain stipulated time. So he is not going
just yet, after ail. He has been, as it were, gar-
nisheed. His colleague, Captain Forbes, being dif-
ferently situated, has firmly withdrawn himself from
Cranbrook, and settled down in the seclusion of his
Sabine villa at Rose Bay. His wife is, meanwhile,
chaperoning a house party at landra, the Crawford
Greene station. The Forbes’s had intended to make
a trip through Africa before going back to England.
The ex-A.D.C. fought and farm-burned there in years
gone by, and it was his dearest ambition to show
his wife the boulder behind which he tore the Boer
leader’s whiskers off, and the precise site upon which
he kicked the traitorous Dutch family’s harmonium
to pieces, and other spots of historical interest. That
scheme has, unfortunately, been slain practically at
birth. Special leave is granted by the War Office to
soldiers who are employed as A.D.C.’s—though, para-
doxically enough, the same privilege is not accorded
to, warriors who take on temporary jobs as tram guards
or what not. To the exasperation of the already
infuriated Forbes, the W.O. has been notified that
his work as an A.D.C. is over, as a result of which
he will have to rejoin his regiment immediately, if
not earlier. In the meantime, any quiet, inoffensive
young man who happens to be a member of one of
the fighting services (barring the Church and the
Salvation Army) mav make oractically sure of a
more or less steady billet at £6 per week and found,
by applying to me at the Servants’ Hall, Cranbrook.
between 10 a.m. and five p.m. —Sundays and second
Thursdays excepted.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOB COMING WEEK.
Royal “The Arcadians.”
Heu Majesty's Adeline Gen£e.
Palace “On Our Selection.”
Criterion “Within the Law.”
Adelphi “East Lynne.”
Little Theatre “The Butterflies.”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
National Amphitheatre Brennan-Fuller’s Vaudeville.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric I
Colonial > Continuous Pictures.
Empress J
Crystal Palace Continuous Pictures, etc.
Olympia 1 West’s Pictures.
Glaciarium /
Imperial Roller Rink. Roller Skating.
Town Hall John McCormack.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK
Her Majesty’s Quinlan Opera Co.
Princess’s “In Old Donegal.”
King’s “The Confession.”
Royal “The Fortune Hunter.”
Bijou “Bobby Burnit.”
Majestic “Whose Baby Are You?”
Opera House Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer's Pictures.
Auditorium “From Manger to Cross.”
Exhibition All-Australian Exhibition.
A further consideration of Miss Muriel
Starr, in “Within the Law” at Sydney Cri-
terion —that drama that begins with the
best intentions but is led astray into the
shrieking wilds of melodrama —confirms this
publication in the assertion that she is one
of the finest emotional actresses seen in
Australia for a long time. In her first en-
trance, manacled to a sneering detective, she
has no chance to work up to the necessary
high pitch of emotion ; but with her impas-
sioned words she reaches and triumphantly
sustains her fervor of denunciation. This
is a test that few actresses could so success-
fully pass. In the latter parts of the melo-
drama, unfortunately, Miss Starr has not
much chance to show that she can do any-
thing but weep; but she weeps in an ex-
tremely artistic manner, with a trick of
turning her head away from the audience
that, admirable as a piece of technique, is a
little overdone. Yet in appearance, youth,
charm and voice the new-comer has all the
attributes of her name. It may be neces-
sary to mention that she is not a Margaret
Anglin. Miss Starr is less subtle, less
artistic: and is therefore likely to be more
popular. But, in her line of goods she is
the best piece of goods we have seen out
here since Margaret Anglin. Most of the
other leading actresses who have happened
this way since that lady have been chiefly
notable for being actor-managers’ wives.
The exhibition of “Butterflies” at Syd-
ney’s Little Theatre attracted a crowded
audience of entomological enthusiasts on
Saturday night, when a number of new
specimens were shown. That attractive
golden butterfly, the Cecilia Gold, flitted
through a delightful scena entitled “Mr.
Dream Man,” clad in a nightie, and took
part in a rather conventional sketch with
Billy Watts, a butterfly who had had too
late a night at his club. The Marion Armi-
tage moth delighted connoisseurs with her
ludicrous burlesques and humorous songs.
The Foster-Hine and Ada Smart butterflies
adequately provided the vocal items that
seem necessary to these exhibitions ; and the
Jack Waller black wasp was, as usual, a
whole collector’s netful of burlesque butter-
flies in himself. Two clever burlesques, in-
cluding the .celebrated Hungarian Orchestra,
showed the entertaining capacities of the
company at their best. The quality of the
music, even in the Hungarian burlesque,
was of a kind to delight a critic ; while in
Frederick Dennett, the accompanist and
piano soloist, the exhibition has an energetic
mosquito whose wings make music. The
exhibition will be open to collectors of re-
fined humor and refined music for some time
yet.
The Sydney Repertory Society has been a
long time incubating; but the inauguration
of a big scheme like the regular production
of modern plays by practically professional
casts required much preliminary spade-work.
Not the least of this was the necessity for
a complete installation of lighting and stage
appliances, and the decoration of the Re-
pertory Theatre, Grosvenor-street. This
evening the first of a six nights’ season of
“The Devil’s Disciple,” Shaw’s brilliant
costume play, will take place in the trans-
formed premises, with Miss Aggie Thorne
and Messrs. Sydney Stirling, Herbert J.
Bentley and Gerald Souper in the leading
rOles.
The one-act play, banned by the Aus-
tralian manager, showqd its possibilities at
the Stage Society’s production on Monday
night at the Concordia Hall. Sydney. Three
one-acters made a thoroughly interesting
evenine’s entertainment. Alfred Sutro’s
“The Bracelet” was dramatically ineffective
—a trivial affair concerning a lost bangle.
Miss Gavin Brown failed by her amateur-
ishly awkward gestures and her shrewish
tone to give the playlet its right comedy
key. and even the conscientious acting of
Sydnev Stirling and others could not make
the false thing live. “The Man of Destiny,”
Shaw’s heterodox conception of the young
Napoleon, was admirably interpreted.
Adrian Stephen repeated his brilliant char-
acterisation of Napoleon—a piece of acting
that would evoke appreciation on any pro-
fessional stage; though one may suggest
that the tone was too sombre, especially in
the usual Shawian speech about the Eng-
lish, which, delivered with too intense a
seriousness, instead of being taken rapidly
and mockingly, seemed like an excrescence.
(This, from the dramatic point of view, it
undoubtedly is.) The part of the young
lieutenant —there never was such a lieuten-
ant, of course, but we must thank Shaw for
creating him —fitted Gilbert Nathan to the
feet; and the small part of Guiseppe, in the
hands of that reliable actor, Gerald Souper,
became an integral part of the theme. Miss
Ruth Lumsdaine showed considerable dra-
matic ability in her interpretation of
the Strange Lady. Though lacking in
subtlety, she gave a sufficiently convincing
portrayal of this enigmatic part. The
novelty of the evening—a play strangely
missed by the Australian manager—was
Barrie’s “The Twelve-Pound Look.” A
self-made successful man is about to be
knighted; and in order to answer the con-
gratulations that keep pouring in he engages
a typiste. The woman turns out to be the
knight’s first wife. She had deserted him
years before, leaving behind her a letter ex-
plaining that she had run away with the
usual man. The deserted husband had
failed to find the man, and had at length
got his divorce and married again. In a
scene of Barriesque humor she admits that
she had run away to escape the at-
mosphere of success that had sur-
rounded her as a wife. The man she
was supposed to have run away with did not
exist. Despite all his money, her husband
had become of no value to her, and once she
had saved £l2 to buy a typewriter she fled.
For the typewriter represented to her a
means of earning her livelihood, and free-
dom. Every husband, she says, should be-
ware when he sees The Twelve-Pound Look
come into his wife’s eyes. The idea is de-
lightfully developed; as only Barrie could
embroider a theme so slight. The cheerful
typiste departs, and the knight’s meek wife
auietly asks her husband whether she cannot
have a typewriter for herself. On the
knight’s slow realisation of the implication
of that Twelve-Pound Look in his wife’s eyes
the curtain descends. Mrs. Allan Beach
made the wife too colorless ; but Miss ITan-
bury Davies, though made up altogether too
vouthfullv, was the cheerful, pert clever
little typiste that Barrie drew; and Arthur
Styan’s knight was a delightful study in
crassness, absolutely convincing.
sis * * *
Much in the same manner as their brother
vaudeville-artists in Macquarie-street dive
into the Gulf of Time and rake out the other
honorable members’ dishonorable past, the
Sydney Tivoli relies this week on two re-
surrections to lend some newness to the pro-
gramme. These are the Havilans, wire
walkers, and Henri French, the more or less
blithered genius, all of whom have called for
complimentary remarks in the past. Be-
sides these the programme includes Willette
Whitaker (last nights), Reynolds and
Donegan (the skating duo), the Quaint Q’s
and Gene Greene.
“ WITHIN 'THE
LAW,” AT
SYDNEY
CRIIERION.
Police Inspector Burke , ’Third Degree expert
(Lincoln Plumer).
“Married to the Wrong Man,” which has
been raking the shekels into the Sydney
Adelphi cash-box, will be shoved into
oblivion on Friday night to make room for
“East Lynne.” Those who have neglected
on previous occasions to see the Adelphi’s
method of aiding Little Willie into the
Hereafter are hereby warned that they will
only have three nights in which to wash
away their sin of omission. After that
“The Night Side of London” will afford
various sorrowful females an opportunity to
ventilate their grievances.
Robinson Crusoe, deceased, has been the
star performer at Sydney Crystal Palace
this week, in a lengthy “Bison” film. Natur-
ally the yarn had to be cut down consider-
ably, but what there was of it can’t tf
said to be lacking in realism. The most
interesting of a good bunch of subjects;,!
the Pathes’ Gazette was the opening 0 f tu
motor-yacht season on the harbor An hu
toncal film, dedicated to Mary, the
Married, of Scotland, is on the programme
for the rest of the week.
“The Arcadians” are bidding tunefully for
race-time custom, at Sydney Royal. When
the J. C. Williamson patrons have been
thrilled by the Criterion show they win
probably hurry along to the Royal for an
antidote. The Firm, with admirable fore
thought, has both brands ready on the
dramatic shelf for the busy season.
Carrie Moore is the big ticket at the
National (Sydney) this week, and, since
Saturday at the matinee, she has been stir-
ring the souls of the congregation with those
grand old hymns, “Betsy of Battery B”
“They Always Pick on Me,” and several
others. But, speaking strictly for itself
The Bulletin reckons the wrestling ponies
to be the best turn in the show.
The incomparable Gende is not much
longer for this part of the world. To be
explicit, she leaves Her Majesty’s (Sydney)
half-way through next week, making way
for the Quinlan Opera Co., which is due on
October 11.
X i'fi *
Dad Rudd and the family had the recep-
tion of their lives on Saturday night at the
Palace (Sydney). Long before the sliprails
were let down at the front, the neighbors
had gathered in hundreds to see the Selec-
tion, and overseer Grant was heading off
the mob with a slab branded “House Full.”
It didn’t head them off worth tuppence.
They stampeded inside, and the boundary-
ushers struggled in vain. When Dad. and
Dave, and Sarah, and Joe, and Maloney,
and Uncle, and Sandy, and Mura,
and Kate, and Billy Bearup, and Cranky
Jack, and the Careys, and the Whites, and
“WITHIN THE
LAW." AT
SYDNEY
CRITERION.
foe Garson, the
Crook (E. W.
Morrison).
the drought, and the “kanga’’ and the rest
of the family appeared in the home paddock
to do a bit of work the 2000 or so loafers
squatting round applauded as if work was
something to be proud of. It was a changed
Palace audience altogether from that which
has been following the Bert Bailey Co.’s
plays for the past several weeks. “On Our
Selection” gets the crowd where it lives, and
for those who want to be dead sure of ob-
taining an option over a seat in the theatre
there is one piece of advice available —go
and fill in an application at the box office.
Sydney musicians have got left over the
first production of City-Organist Ernest
T ruman’s “Pied Piper” cantata, and it is
small credit to them. Adelaide, like old
Athens, is always ready to hear any new
thing, and, just as the Literary Theatre
there has given a first show to plays by
Louis Esson, Arthur Adams and other good
Australians, so the Philharmonic Society
there has jumped in and staged the “Piper.”
It did the thing well, with a chorus of 60,
and orchestra of nearly 40. under the con-
ductorship of young Roy Mellish. Truman
calls his work “grotesque,” and it is. Prac-
tically the whole of Browning’s poem is
sung, the soloists being Piper, Mayor Rat
(bass), and a soprano as the Lame Child.
But the orchestra gets the cream of the
work, the Rat motive being specially quaint.
The humorous bassoon and oboe are always
prominent. That is, the cantata —which
runs about an hour —is light enough to be
really popular, while skilful enough to
please the critics. Truman went . to^ Ade-
laide for the occasion, and got a big “call
at the finish.
Adelaide King’s is going strong with first-
in-Australia turns. The Tenka Japs con-
tinue to produce water-jets incredibly from
a fan or a sword-blade or a human scalp.
Carlton Max is back from America, with a
Cameron girl who gives his ventriloquism
turn a pleasant novelty. The Carlo Mai


THe World’s Best.
DAIMLER
Motor Lorry.
•Silent Knight Engine.
Shaft Drive No Chains.
GO
SUNSHINE Melbourne. 1
Hugh V. McKay, Sydney & Adelaide, J
Sole
Agents.
insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
Pitt & King Streets, SYDNEY.
Victorian Branch : 50 Queen Street, Melbourne, s. J. fowler, Manager.
Queensland Branch : 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane, j. a. watson, Manager.
FIRE, ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, etc.
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
’Phone No. 236 Central. SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
oOORD & SON
LOUDON. ENCLAND
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
1
%
DT
A
Swift r- Company. Australasian agents, o connjeixst Sydney
people are two clever and funny tumblers
on Cummin and Seaham lines. ‘And Hun-
tress is a man who makes up as Maud
Allan in full view, and then dances in vari-
ous deceptive styles, with limelight effects
on the whirling draperies—an effective
turn. As it happens, Martynne is doing
much the same thing on the far bigger stan-o
at the new Tivoli; but he preserves the illu-
sion till the end, and is generally taken to
be a girl. The six Hoboes are funny but
they string their humor out at such length
that it gets thin. The gallery-packer should
get to work on it. The Primrose four run
their jolly singing much closer, and make
play with their own heavyweight build
meantime. Lola Krasavina continues to
turn her splendid voice to trivial uses and
the Mullers, by their youth and l'oyousness
make a fairly skilful hoop-turn delightful.’
At the Royal, George Cross, Vera Remee
and co. are better suited by each new plav
as it comes. Their present (and final)
effort is a “Cowboy and Squaw” drama
with much broncho-busting and a realistic
blizzard. And the many picture-shows rage
furiously together, all of them for the
moment relying on sheer melodrama.
* & *
At Melbourne King’s the wildly excited
person with the nigger-minstrel collar and
the inciedible anti-British accent continues
to get the quickest absolution on record.
Max Clifton, as the foreigner in question
having murdered Miss Duggan’s brother in
the vicinity of Father Roberts’s rectory
rushes straightway into that holy young
man’s dining-room to get of his
offence. Then he rushes back into the
darkness, where Anderson’s garden hose is
playing on the. righteous and the unright-
eous with indiscriminate fury, and
presently returns to mention that his aged
mother is dying 25 miles away and desires
the last consolations of the Church. Where-
upon Father Roberts declares his readiness
to “answer a sick call though it leads
through Hell.” and the curtain falls on the
first act. Only for a moment does the
curtain remain fallen. It subsequently rises
four times in answer to some terribly sick
“calls” from the audience. There are four
short acts to “The Confession,” and if
Brother Snowball, of the L.0.L., had a hand
in the production he would probably want
to introduce a fifth act of entirely different
sectarian tendencies. The play is not so
much a melodrama as an advt. for the one
True Faith, concluding with a priestly de-
claration that the Cross is the Hope of All
Humanity. Also the play, in a minor de-
gree, is an incentive to teetotalism,
for if Rutland Beckett had kept off the
whisky, as Miss Duggan exhorted him to do.
he would never have been charged with the
crime that the man in the nigger-minstrel
collar committed, nor would he have been
clothed in Collingwood football colors when
his innocence was proved. Notes of inter-
rogation are scattered freely throughout
“The Confession.” Inquiring minds would
like to know why an irreverent hunchback
boy (who is Miss Wilton in disguise) should
be boarding at the rectory. The appearance
of the minstrel murderer in Collingwood
convict costume, for the purpose of confes-
sing his crime to the Governor, is another
unaccountable event, seeing that he was
never sent to prison. The reprieve of
Beckett for a fortnight, just previous to the
Governor’s refusal of any reprieve whatever,
is also a matter which demands explana-
tion; and the utter emptiness of the Gover-
nor’s bookcase raises a question whether
the missing volumes were burgled overnight
or have been removed for spring cleaning.
* * *
Next week is the eighth and final of the
Quinlan Opera Co. at Her Majesty’s, Mel-
bourne, so the remaining “first productions
for the season” are to be disposed of in one
performance each. To-morrow (Friday)
“Traviata” comes to light, “Trovatore” on
Saturday, “Tristan and Isolde” on Monday
next, and “Flying Dutchman” on Wednes-
day, a revival of “Rohbme” being sand-
wiched between the Wagner bills. Quinlan
will then have loyally fulfilled his promise
to stage 25 different works within eight
weeks, and a great demonstration of popu-
lar approval will doubtless be hurled at the
Napoleonic young Irishman and his com-
pany on the farewell night. The farewell
bill, originally intended to be of mixed
extraction, is now advertised as “Louise,”
the only French opera in the Quinlan reper-
toire, and in some respects the most inter-
esting of them all.
Nathaniel the Fortune Hunter is still
turning his duplicity to beneficent uses at
Melbourne Royal. A new drug-store rises
every night from the ruins of Sam Graham’s
hopeless business, and everybody is happy
when the cute and chirpy farcical comedy
winds up. Seemingly there are some more
weeks to go ere it winds itself out.
* * # *
Concerning the present week’s doings at
Melbourne Princess’s it can only be said
that “Molly Bawn” has already displaced
A Romance in Ireland” (an innocuous
drama wherein the bashful Doone takes
half an hour to declare his love for the col-
leen), and the bill will be changed to “In
pld Donegal” on Saturday. This forthcom-
ing chapter of Doonery will close the sham-
rock season at the Princess’s.
The death-defying hippo, the flying
Ladonas, the growling bears and the vision
on the swinging wire have gone from Mel-
bourne, and Wirths’ Circus is on tour once
more \\ hich latter observation applies also
In A ar ?. and her concert co., late of
tne Auditorium. The next notable songster
on the Auditorium stocks is McCormack,
who will eventuate on the 23rd. Meanwhile
the hall is in charge of Biblical Biographs,
Limited, and “From Manger to Cross” is
being screened, with orchestral, choral and
organic accompaniments.
“SAMSON AND DELILAH
AT HER "MAJESTY'S ,
MELBOURNE.
Abimelech
(William
Anderson).
Graham Marr as the
High Priest.
.three nights of Melbourne Repertory
Theatre last week were devoted to “Major
Barbara," a Bernard Shaw play that hardly
touches the eternal verities of life, nor deals
satirically with feminine character. Lady
Undershaft, a conventional managing
matron,. has brought up two daughters and
a priggish son in estrangement from their
father, like the eccentric mamma in “You
Never Can Tell.”. The father, who is a
heartless and amiable creation of Shaw,
gets a reintroduction to his unconcerned
offspring and casually preaches the doctrine
of salvation for mankind by means
of cannon and explosives, whilst his
daughter Barbara hangs on to her craze for
Salv’army work. Presently Barbara aban-
dons her Blood and Fire enthusiasm and
consents to her enigmatical fianc6 becoming
manager of father’s death-and-destruction
factory. She is one of the least glaringly
unreal figures on the Gilbertian side of the
story. A few sketches of Salv’army im-
penitents are thrown in to relieve the pre-
vailing color of the conversation. As a
comedy of impossible situations “Major
Barbara” is not so brilliantly funny or dis-
tinctly Shawlike as “You Never Can Tell” ;
and as a philosophical play it bears no
comparison with (say) “Man and Super-
man.” The co. gave a better presentation
of the author’s humor than the staging gave
of the Salv’army shelter or Undorshaft’s
arsenal. Miss Rose Seaton played the high-
toned mother with pardonable exaggeration ;
Miss Robson’s light treatment of the name
part was at least pleasing; Frank Keon
made a live character of Snobby Price, the '
transparently hypocritical convert who
sneaks another bloke’s quid off the Salv’army
drum ; and among the other people Kingsley
Norris (as Undershaft, pere) distinguished
himself by his imitation of Julius Knight.
A new turn at Melbourne Opera House is
Williams and Rankin, both of whom blow
the cornet sweetly, and one of whom is a
divinely tall and picturesque she. In most
other respects the programme is as before.
The tuneful Russian dancers continue to
applaud one another with great vehemence,
and Frank Parish has lost none of his
superioritv to all previous novelty jumpers
who have jumped on this continent. Also
the Acting Dogs are favorably received by
large audiences. As regards their histrionic
efforts in the open, the dogs are little more
than walking gentlemen and ladies, but their
dressing is humorous, and the fact that they
wear boots counts for keen dramatic in-
stinct.
* Si * *
At Melbourne Majestic, Harry Corson
Clarke and co. are still doing their best
(which is not very much) with the ’Murkan
farce, “Whose Baby Are You?” The co.
puts not much more “ginger” into the old-
fashioned work than you would look for in
a “dialogue” at a Band of Hope. Two of
the men who sport the flannels of blameless
youth make a point of calling each other a
silly ass, and if the audience takes them at
their word they have only the author to
blame —or to thank. Little else in the enter-
tainment calls for comment, except perhaps
the unaccountable tableau of infants in the
second act, which only serves to make the
casual visitor wonder whether it is a cr&che
or a foundling home he has wandered into.
This sudden production of four or five
babies (when only one infant has been in-
quired for) is about the last word in auda-
cious absurdity.
* * * *
At Melbourne Bijou Hugh Buckler
continues to divulge the business in-
capacity of Bobby Burnit. His con-
ception of the petted boob of an
indulgent parent hardly improves on
acquaintance ; for he is now obviously over-
working his actor’s art in giving undue em-
phasis to the foolishness of the character.
Almost the same remark might apply to
Alfred Bristowe, whose effusive humility as
David Applerod suggests a cross between a
Boucicaultian process-server and a cringing
menial in a Chinese pub. Miss Paget seems
more picturesque and insincere with each
tresh inspection, and Reynolds Denniston
leaves it to an aggressive Cigar and a bellow-
dramatic scowl to provide his idea of a
grafter-in-chief. And though a fat cigar and
a scowl are of great assistance, they are not
enough to go right round the character.
* * * *
The principal photo-play at Melbourne
Olympia on Saturday was “Half a Chance,”
disclosing the regeneration, or alleged regene-
ration, ,of a bloke called “Frisco Pet.”
Frisco” starts ignobly as a pug and con-
vict, but through the influence of a damsel
named Jocelyn Wray he strives for more
profitable things, and becomes the most
notable lawyer in all the land. “I Was
Meant for You” was the title of an amorous
conflict in eight or 10 rounds, and “A
Woman’s Heart.” a cowboy yarn, was a
short biograph spasm packed with violence
and clairvoyance. Edison’s kinetophone also
had a lot to say, and treated the crowd to a
Caledonian song and dance.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Norbell”: Surely “Absalom Jones” is mistaken
when he says (B. 18/9/’l3) that Maud Williamson
made a play about “Joseph of Canaan.” In Rig.
nold’s production of “Joseph” at Her Majesty’s,
Sydney, in 1895, Maud Williamson was leading
woman, playing Mrs. Potiphar, alias Ayesha. That
was the Rev. George Walters’s play. When, in 1895,
Rignold relinquished the theatre after eight years’
continuous tenancy, Alf Woods became lessee and
acquired much valuable property from Rignold, in-
cluding, possibly, the rights of '“Joseph.” Anyhow,
I saw Alf play Joseph to Maud Williamson’s
Potipharess in Bendigo subsequently, and it was
Walters’s play they did. Harry Ilodson, for years
with Rignold, stage-managed the Woods-Williamson
explosion, and played his old part. Maud could
wield a facile pen, and she dramatised books of Hall
Caine, Conan Doyle, Marion Crawford and others,
but I fancy she let Genesis, Exodus, Deuteronomy
and the other archaic chronicles alone.
Once a showman always a showman. So Michael
Joseph, one of the best-known advance men in Aus-
tralasia, who recently gave the hurried life a rest
in favor of settled commercial work in Sydney, has
gone back to the old trade. Anybody who wants to
hear the latest boudoir anecdote "will find Michael in
the managerial department of Clement Mason and
Scott, at Melbourne.
“H.F.C.”: The death of Harry Gabriel PCdissier,
in London, ends the brief, brilliant life of the leader
in a new style of public entertaining. Pelissier and
his Follies, with their potted plays and parodies,
were rarely missed by visitors to London. His father
was a diamond merchant, and the youngster worked
in the shop till his friends almost pushed him into
the profession. Starting on small concert platforms,
he climbed quickly until he was the proprietor of a
successful company, playing for seasons at London
playhouses. Most of his productions were his own.
Amongst the large number of songs he published,
apart from his humorous trifles, the most popular
is perhaps the well-known “Awake.”
“St. Maori”: Fred Young (brother of Flo), who
for about 20 years has been stage-manager of the
Royal Comic Opera Company, dropped out of the
J. C. Williamson firm suddenly at Auckland (M.L.)
the other day, and is at present resting in Welling-
ton. Frederick says that the doctor has ordered
him to take a long rest, but that does not account
for him sending in his resignation very promptly
after the arrival of the Royal Comics in Auckland
from Sydney. It Wsts only the other day in Harbortown
that he blew on Doc Sniffkins in “The Belle of
New York,” and gave a very decent performance at
about 3f minutes’ notice. That’s a bad habit to get
into, although the genial Young is looking not the
least like a man with a grievance.
“J.F.H.” (from London) : Apropos Beerbohm
Tree’s “Joseph and his Brethren,” it turns out that
the Chamberlain has given only a sort of condi-
tional license, reserving the right to veto the pro-
duction if at its final rehearsals he see or hears
anything calculated to make a curate blush. Tree
has covered the walls with enormous colored posters
—one showing a handsome youth, presumably
Joseph, minding a flock of sheep ; another depicting
a caravan of camels coming over a hilltop. We
have been waiting in vain for a third illustrating
Mrs. Potiphar’s amorous advances towards the vir-
tuous and good-looking Joseph. In the intervals of
strenuous rehearsing, Tree has been posing as a new
Preacher. “Nowhere,” says he, “can religious sub-
jects be better treated than on the stage. The
cause of true religion can only be served by a
religious presentation on the stage of the great
stories of the Bible.” In the matter of numbers the
play will put up something like a record—-54 speak-
ing parts and 300 thinking ones. Yet, to get down
to business, is Joseph worth all the trouble? In the
first place, it is related that he was closely related
to 32 dukes and quite a number of kings, so he
was obviously an aristocrat of the first water.
Nobody else ever had so many uncles who were
dukes. Incidentally, he is mentioned as the wonder-
ful financier who took advantage of a famine to
steal the lands of the starving population and make
the king sole owner. It is a curious tale, but the
verdict is that any country which has a man like
Joseph for Prime Minister and Chancellor of the
Exchequer is out of luck. He ought to be known as
the Egyptian Bubble.
A weird sea story has got to Dunedin (M.L.).
In Jan., 1890 (days of the windjammer,
although only 23 years ago), the good ship
Marlborough, 100 A 1 at Lloyd’s, belonging
to the Shaw Savill and Albion line, left
Lyttelton (M.L.) for London, loaded with
frozen meat. She was never seen or heard
of again until word came last week from a
Blue Funnel line skipper, trading to Seattle.
His yarn or narrative was that recently he
picked up a pilot off that port who told
him that, years ago, he was wrecked near
Cape Horn. Ashore there he found the
remains of a ship with the name “Marl-
borough” still decipherable, and, close by,
three tents, several heaps of shellfish and
20 skeletons. This stirring of the bones
of a forgotten sea tragedy is remarkable
for the dead silence on the part of the cast-
away pilot up to now. The Marlborough
was a duly registered ship, and it is a mar-
vellous fact that the story has not reached
official ears before this. Pilots, even
American pilots, aren’t used, surely, to
stumbling over collections of skeletons,
alongside wrecked ships and shellfish, every
day.
The usual motor-car, proceeding at the
strictly-moderate pace- of 11 or 12 miles an
hour, came along Spring-street, Melbourne,
one evening during Show week, and was
about to turn into Little Collins-street, on
the wrong side of an electric-light post,
when a lorry was seen coming up, on its
proper side. To avoid this, the motor driver
started to swerve round the post, but ran
into it—and that was how it got into the
papers. The car contained three persons,
described in the police reports as A, city
business man, married; B, suburban den-
tist, married ; C, barmaid, married, aged 22,
and living with her mother in Lonsdale-
street. A was flung head foremost against
the iron post, and killed on the spot. B
was tossed on the road, but picked himself
up and went home. C, aged 22, and living
with her mother in Lonsdale-sfcreet, was
hurled into the gutter and was taken to the
hospital, bady damaged. B reported to the
police next day, with the explanation that
he had been knocked into a stupor at the
time; also, he stated that he had been
walking into the city, when A, an old
friend, who had C with him in the car, gave
him a lift. He had been introduced to
C, but was otherwise quite unacquainted
with her; and, that being so, one can only
wonder why, as soon as C recovered con-
sciousness in the hospital, she made urgent
and repeated inquiries concerning B, about
whom nobody then knew anything. Take
it all round, there is a certain inexplica-
bleness about these motor disasters,
especially the habit barmaids have of being
mixed up in them. Meanwhile, the man who
drove the car at a moderate pace against a
post is in the cemetery. We all go there
sooner or later.
The perfect calm of Robert Munro, late
of Scotland, moved Justice Street, of Syd-
ney Divorce Court, to make a string of
eloquent remarks, last week. Robert, who
is a farm laborer by profession, came
to Australia in 1910, and set to work to
make a home for his wife and family, whom
he had left behind in the midst of bagpipes
and brose and heather. In 1912 he was
ready with the home, and directed his people
to join him. They obeyed orders but, when
the ship reached Sydney, his wife told him
that the worst had happened aboard, and
that the co-re. was one Mackenzie, an old
acquaintance of his. If Robert exhibited
any signs of annoyance on getting the news
the fact escaped mention, like the body of
James IV., which couldn’t be found after
the battle of Flodden. The indiscreet
missus, who seems to have resigned herself
to a domestic parting, refused to be dragged
from her Mackenzie. So the indomitable
Robert, after extracting a promise from the
lady that there would be no more nonsense,
ye ken, included the co-re. in the family
party, and took everybody home. The curi-
ous household hung together for a while;
but when Mrs. Robert had to confess again,
Robert decided in his cold, calm way —the
cold, calm way that comes from Stirling
and Caithness and places like that, includ-
ing Dumfries and Mull —that the arrange-
ment wasn’t workable. He proceeded at
the sober pace which prevails at Auchter-
arder, and from there north-westerly by
Auchtermuchty to the islands of Skye and
Rum, to the Divorce Court. Justice Street
looked at him long and hard before giving
the desired relief and the custody of the
three children. His Honor plainly inti-
mated that a man with more fire in him
would not have had a chance of getting the
decree; but, after considering Robert from
various angles, he decided that Robert was
a very unusual man, who had done his frigid
best to repair an awkward situation. De-
cree nisi, to be moved absolute in six
months. Robert took it coldly, like the
Hebrides. Mrs. Robert probably felt as if
she had been divorced from that other fine
old Scotchman, Ben Nevis.


“ORIENT” TWO-PIECE
LINEN SUITS -for 21/-
OUR SPECIALITY READY-TO-WEAR.
These are splendid Suits : —ideal for summer and holiday wear.
Made of Drab Linen with White Stripes; also with Blue or
Pale Green Stripes. All these materials are shrunk under
special supervision in boiling soap and soda water. If washed
according to instructions, they will not shrink again. Wash
in warm soapy water. Do not boil. They are very strong,
and will wear well. Always comfortable, pbrousj cool, light
and smart. For Tennis. Lounge, Holiday, or ordinary sum-
mer wear they are excellent. Ready to wear for 21/-.
REMEMBER 21/-. CARRIAGE PAID.
DAVID JONES LTD.,
Opp. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ft
Rugelmann’s
Pure Herbal
SR in Soap.
“Beauty’s Aid."
; Free Sample sent on Receip*
„ , Twopenny Stamp.
Kugelmann's Pure Herbal Skin Soap r ia - v ,^ e
tained at all Chemists, Drapers and Storeke p
throughout Australasia, at 2/6 per box of three
tablets. If not obtainable locally, send P° sta , j
or Stamps of any State, to the value of 3/- t .
ing postage), when box will be posted per
mail.
Sole Proprietors:
H. E. KUGELHANN & CO.,
Wholesale Druggists and Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen Street, MELBOURNE; P« Street,
SYDNEY; and at ADELAIDE and BRISBAN
SOCIETY
A while ago the Telegraph Department
stated that wireless messages to and from the
Commonwealth were mostly puerile convey-
ances of “love and kisses.” Whereat the
Commonwealth was expected to smile. How
about the following cablegram, by the Pre-
mier of Victoria to the State’s Agent-
General? —
Colleagues appreciate Baillieu’s valuable services
to the State while in London, which were on the
same high level as rendered as Minister in Victoria.
Join with those assembled banquet 23rd in honoring
him and wishing him pleasant voyage, safe return,
many years’ happiness, usefulness. — Watt, Premier.
Wireless communications between husbands
and wives (not to mention people who ought
to be husbands and wives) are mostly love
and kisses, and official cablegrams between
politicians are largely grease and jam.
Watt was so proud of his despatch of empty
commonplaces that he sent it to the press
for publication.
Musical fragment from this paper’s Old
Soldier: —
Hamar Greenwood, M.P., one of the strolling
British Parliamentarians, now in these parts, grew
quite lyric last week over “the sight of boys
[meaning our compulsory trainees] swinging along
to the historic martial airs of our race.” It recalls
the mean origin of most of these same airs. “The
British Grenadiers,” for example, one of the best
of marching tunes, was originally composed as a
skit when the Guards marched out to the camp on
Finchley Common in ’45. Hogarth made a suffici-
ently side-splitting picture of this episode. “The
Girl I Left Behind Me,” as it is generally called,
was written in derision of a camp of militia and
volunteers on Brighton Downs, when Napoleon’s
Grand Army was encamped at Boulogne waiting its
chance to invade Britain. “Yankee Doodle,” a par-
ticularly slashing marching tune, was adapted from
an old 17th Century Cavalier ditty by a musical
surgeon of Braddoek’s army, which was smashed by
the French where the town of Pittsburg now stands.
The Yankee militia stole the air and have kept it
ever since.
“Public Servant” : At time of writing the
only talk in the N.S.W. service is whether
the Superannuation Bill will get through
Parliament. Those with absolute stable
information are sure that, with ordinary
luck, its passage is a cert; others have it,
from the Premier’s office-boy himself, that
the Bill is down and out. If it doesn’t pass
we will blame the A.M.P. The compul-
sory insurance clause in the present Public
Service Act is a source of large premium
income to the insurance cos., and the ser-
vice is the cheapest field in the State for
new business. The A.M.P. is the favorite
society among public servants, and the S.B.
will hit it hard. And the society is credited
with lots of influence in the Leg. Council.
From our Court Correspondent: —
There is dismay in the bosoms of N.S.W.’s noblest
families, and faintly murmured plaints and protests are
to be heard from Potts Point right out to the hinter-
land of Rose Bay. Tne startling innovations adopted
by the Stricklands in connection with the invitations
to the forthcoming Fleet Ball at Government House
are responsible. In the first place, practically ail
the attractive young Society matrons who, in gayer,
happier days, used fairly to live at the different vice-
regal establishments, have been callously turned down.
They have been erased, so far as this festivity, and,
they gravely fear, all forthcoming festivities, are con-
cerned. The same applies to a goodly number of the
prettiest and best-known Society girls. The Strick-
land theory is that these young women monopolise
the men, to the detriment of their more meritorious, if
plainer, sisters. Home-made clothes, Jemima boots,
and a face like the side of a door look like being
priceless assets, so far as the female climber is con-
cerned, during the present vice-regal regime. With
the object of attracting to Government House next
week a type of ladv-reveller whom neither Cranbrook
nor the ravished Macquarie-street establishment has
yet seen, the bulk of the invitations have been issued
to elderly matrons of the politico-aldermanic variety.
Each matron has been instructed to bring three
girls—any old girls. Of course, the maidens who
have been accustomed to be asked in the past won’t
go under these conditions; any more than a man
who had been blackballed at a dub could subse-
quently eat there as a member’s guest. The result
will be that, so far as securing a brand-new set of
girls, young and old, is concerned, the Stricklands’
novel move will be an inevitable and howling suc-
cess. In other respects it will not be so strikingly
beneficial to those concerned. In the first place,
most of the dancers achieved, on such terms, will be
bound to emanate from the remote suburbs. Which
will mean that at a time when the ordinary vice-
regal ball is just warming up they will have to
make for their last train, tram or boat. Secondly,
there will not be any large section there composed
of people who know each other well, which will
make powerfully for gloom. Speaking as one who
has been in service for years I don’t know any-
thing sadder than the spectacle of a ball at which
no one is acquainted with anyone,. in a manner of
speaking. Eliminate the Society section of Sydney
-—all of whom know one another by their Christian
names, as the saying goes—and you are bound to get
this depressing effect. Finally, the naval officers,
in whose honor the entertainment is being given,
may be relied on to regard the new experiment
with disfavor not to say fury. Unless they are
different from the generality of bluff sea-dogs who
have visited these shores in the past they will ex-
pect their dancing partners to be distinguished,
not so much by rigidity of moral character, sensible
flannel underwear, and the Home Virtues generally,
as by charm and money—especially money. As
MORE INTERESTING.
Ministers of religion are denouncing as immoral
the latest dress fashions. —News item.
THE WOWSER : “Most assured’y I must rele-
gate to the background the drink question,
'this is a matter requiring my immediate
and close attention .”
against these things there is the consideration that
a new lot of citizens are to be given a chance to
surround the free vice-regal supper counter, which
is all to the good. And yet, as a reform, it doesn’t
nearly get there. To be strictly logical the names
of all respectable N.S.W. residents —meaning by
respectable those who have not been found out in
anything illegal—should be put into one vast hat,
and invitations to the ball sent to the bearers of
those which the A.D.C., or butler or what-not
chanced to draw out. Then we would get the
genuinely democratic hop. The impending one is
a mere shadow or faint simulacrum of the real thing ;
hence, like all other bogus circumstances, it is
unsatisfactory.
SUPERLATIVE.
H ODGE: “I tell yer , Doolan , Eve done with
yer. Yez can take a week's notice.”
DOOLAN : "An', be damned to ye , yez can take
a month's notice! ”
“The Teller” : There is now raging in the
Sydney suburb of Leichhardt a shop-
men’s carnival, and the various win-
dows bear the stirring watchword: “Ad-
vance ! Parramatta Road!” Intense en-
thusiasm is exhibited. No doubt slavish
imitators will shortly appear with banners
inscribed “Forward! Bay-street, North
Botany!” etc., etc. A suggestion is offered
to Mosman landlords, some of whom are
alleged to run a car on the rents of a pair
of six-roomed cottages. Their standard
might read “Excelsior.”
These booklovers need watching.
A general draughtsman, employed
of late in a Commonwealth Depart-
ment, was sent to Melbourne Gaol
last week on a charge of stealing
150 books from Cole’s Arcade.
Among the hundreds found at the
prisoner’s lodgings more than 80
had the Public Library stamp upon
them. He wanted more works of
literature and technical instruc-
tion than his £5 a week salary
could afford him, and his particu-
lar weakness is not, it seems, in-
cluded in the list of kleptomanias.
An unlawfully acquisitive pipe-
lover or socks-lover might pass
for a kleptomaniac if he had a
decent salary to excuse him, but a
detected purloiner of books needs
a large income from private prop-
erty to prove his mental derange-
ment. And yet a man who steals
a book may stand on a higher
moral plane than a man who steals
a Boer republic or prigs a three-
penny beer. ' And many editors
who call themselves respectable
members of society steal and re-
publish Bulletin stories and pic-
tures without any risk of gaol.
The Victorian John Hop is indeed a
marvel in the way of resource. Here is a
case in point. The other night a moist and
dishevelled individual splashed into the
South Richmond (Vic.) police-station and
announced that he had fallen into the Yarra
and lost his hat and a handbag. He ex-
plained that he had called to mention the
fact in order to save the Force the trouble
of dragging for bodies or straining its in-
tellect in the attempt to puzzle out what
had happened in the event of someone com-
ing across the lost property. What would
the mere British or Yankee copper have
done in such a situation? Told the visitor
to go home and dry himself, probably. That
was where the resource of the S. Richmond
Hops was displayed. With icy calm they
proceeded to lock up their dripping caller on
a charge of “insulting behavior” !
. ' agabond” looks
in again on Lorn
don: —
It is five years since
1 saw London last, but
1 don’t find any tre-
mendous change in it—
certainly not as much
as Eve seen in Syd-
ney in the same time.
The one great move-
ment is in the
traffic. The horse has
almost vanished, and
soon the Cockney will
know as little of him
as he knows now of
the cow. The motors
have speeded-up the
traffic, yet there are
still the same old hold-
ups in the Strand, at
the Bank, etc. The
motor-’buses run over
more routes and more
people than the ex-
tinct horse-’bus did.
The hansom has taken
the count—“l9l2-13
OUT.” One was in-
stalled in a Museum
the other day—a sober
fact. The taxi goes
further, and the fare’s
worne. The way it
clicks up the tup-
pences is amazing. The
meter ought to be
called the 2d.-eater.
No new tubes have
dived under in the last
five years, but there’s
a-plenty of new dodges
to advertise them, and
they carry tons more
people.
There are more the-
atres and plays to see,
but less to See in
them. The musical-
comedy chorus and the
Russian dancers make
up for this by letting
you see more of them-
selves. It’s cheering
to come back and find
so many of the old
favorites at the old
stands and hops—
Grossmith, Teddy
Payne, Gertie Millar,
Harie Studholme, and all the rest who never rest.
Some of the girls are grannies, but they’re frisky as
ever, and haven’t altered a tooth of their old post-
card smiles.
1 don’t see much change in the ordinary lads of
the village and the female inhabitants. The men
drink less, perhaps, and golf more. They, week-end
more, and some of them have a job to cram a day
in between the two ends of their week-ends. Less
respect is paid to the tailor. This is hard luck,
because when he doesn’t get respect he so often gets
nothing at all. The city has buried the silk topper,
and a man may be seen surrounded by a soft collar
and no notice is taken of it. A straw hat may now
be worn in Piccadilly, and even a pipe. The girls
are tighter in their frocks and looser otherwise. They
run about more, smoke more, bridge more, motor
more, shriek more, and think they think more. They
do everything more except in the matter of clothes.
Their costumes are visibly shrinking. But if they
wear less clothes they wear more complexions.
I can’t give you any statistics of Decrease of
Crime, Increase of Disease, etc., but I notice there
are fewer barrel organs. The weather remains much
about the same. I suppose it has been given up as
a bad job, and utterly irreclaimable.
Tasmania is complaining at the top of its
voice about its mail arrangements. The post
office has a contract with the Union Steam-
ship Co., which twice a week runs a boat
across to Burnie, whence the mails are taken
by train to Launceston, and distributed
throughout the Speck. Out of pure cussed-
ness —or it seems so in the absence of any
other visible explanation—the boats are not
dispatched from Melbourne until an hour
or so too late to be sure of catching the
train at Burnie; so the entire Australian
mail lies there for a day, and is taken on in
the evening. Consequently mails (includ-
ing practically all the Australian papers)
which ought to reach Hobart for delivery
on Saturday do not arrive at the State capi-
tal until Sunday, and that means delivery
on Monday—a day and a half later than
would be the case if the Union Co. showed
a trifle of the nous which has helped it
build up its vast business, by sending its
boats off from Melbourne two or three hours
earlier.
“J.R.”: According to a cable of last
week :
Sir Edward Carson has appointed General Sir
William Thompson Adair his Adjutant-General, and
Colonel George William Hacket Pain his chief-of-
staff. Boer tactics have been agreed upon as the
basis of the campaign which is to follow the in-
auguration of Home Rule.
So Carson has, to all intents and purposes,
declared war against King George V. and
his Government. What attitude will the
“Loyalists” here and in the United Kingdom
adopt over the matter? At the time of the
Boer war those who sympathised with a
nation which had been driven reluctantly to
tight Britain in defence of home and coun-
try were condemned intolerantly as traitors.
What will the people who howled pro-
Boer” have to say of the Carson rebels who
are preparing to fight Britain on an issue
that has been decided along perfectly Con-
stitutional lines? Probably, since the nag-
wagging variety of Loyalist never lived who
was wholly consistent, that Carson is a
patriotic “King’s man,” and that his assail-
ants deserve to be buried.
A LAY OF FASHION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There is an orgy of undress going on, and it shows
no signs of abating. And what is to be the end ?
It is difficult to see; but, obviously, when you have
gone on undressing for a certain time, you come to
an end of what there is to take off. — London Times.
I am a Puritan for style,
The taste of Eden pleases me;
In summer days a gentle smile
Or some green portion of a tree
Would seem sufficient dress to cover
A girl who really loved her lover.
In earlier ages damsels met
The careless gazes of the world,
Clothed in a scent of mignonette
Or one bright feather crisped and curled,
And no one really cared or heeded
How pretty widows might be weeded.
But, since those kinder, wiser days,
In winter cold or summer sun,
The female person walks the ways
In silk that toiling worms have spun.
Or all her hidden beauty dresses
In various forms of mutton tresses.
In fact, the use of woman now .
Is just to carry cloth around, *
And wear the whiteness of her brow
Beneath a headgear built and crowned
With oddments in strange combinations,
Labelled “confections” and “creations.”
But Fashion, the strong god who rules
The mighty empery of girl,
Is dragging off the silks and wools
To find the underlying pearl;
And she who late wore robe and feather,
Will soon appear just draped in weather.
The whirligig of time goes round,
And nothing lingers with us here,
Except a use for every pound,
And some slight blessedness in beer;
But I am vaguely apprehensive
A robe of light may prove expensive.
A simple leaf of vine or fig,
Ma} 7 cost a pile of minted gold ;
’Tis not by size that fashion’s rig
Is scissored out and made and sold ;
And even airiest devices
May run to fashionable prices.
Oh, that a pot of honest paint
Our chaste adornment might supply!
Careless of poverty’s restraint,
I should go forth and swiftly buy
Sufficient of the stuff to splash on
To clothe me in the pink of fashion.
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


Wild’s Hairdressing Rooms, 30 Upstairs.
Sydney Arcade, George and King Streets, Sydney, is
the proper place to go if you want the best of atten-
tion. Electric head and face massage done in the
latest American style. Hours of business: 8.30 to
6.30 ; Saturday close at 1 o'clock.*
ft
Silustria”
( Reg'd.)
THE LATEST “SILK STRIPE” MATERIAL.
Guaranteed Unshrinkable and Absolutely Fast Colors.
Suitable for Ladies Blouses, Gents Shirts
etc.
Can be obtained from ALL THE LEADING RETAIL STORES.
COOL INMAN CLOTHING
FOR THE WARM SEASON.
For the hot summer days there are no garments so
cool and comfortable as tropical-weight Washing
Suits of Indian manufacture.
Indian Clothing is made up ready to wear. The
materials are proven to be unshrinkable. They are
light and porous, and do not soil quickly.
We commend Brown Flax Drill —a material of oat-
meal shade —and Bengal Black and White Pinhead
Check.
S.B. SAC or PATROL JACKET ... 13 6
D.B. SAC or NORFOLK 15 6
TROUSERS, 10/6 ; VEST, 8/6.
Patterns and eatalofpie on request. Please state
chest, waist and insjde leg measurements. Postage
6d. per garment extra.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
m
m
ihipTr
m 4
Adelaide Insolvency Court has handed out
six months’ hard labor to Solomon-Senior, a
middle-aged lawyer, without waiting for any
criminal proceedings to be taken. The judge
called his conduct for about seven years “a
miserable exhibition of wilful deceit.” by
which “an unprotected and inexperienced
young woman had lost very large sums” ;
but the Court took into account that the
culprit had already been punished by being
struck off the rolls. The charges included
getting purchase-money, and then calls, for
shares that never were purchased, and also
fixing up an imaginary loan of £5OO to a
non-existent person. It was perhaps a
touch of the mordant humor of his race that
made S.-Senior give to this no-such-person
the name of “Harris.” Senior’s own name,
AMBIGUOUS.
SHE (Lrightly): “Do you think it improves
my appearance, darling?"
HER (darkly): “Nothing could improve your
appearance, love."
at birth, by the way, was Solomon; but
another Judah Moss Solomon coming into
the profession, the first one went to the
Biipreme Court and got an order authorising
him to be thereafter a hyphenated Solomon-
Senior. It was characteristic of Way, C. J.,
who was presiding, that he found it quite
t'asy to say a few complimentary things to
the applicant on that occasion.
Melbourne has just had a chance of learn-
uu 6 ab ? ut Chinese names. A court
ase has been in progress in which various
Lmsioms and ex-Customs people are charged
with conspiring with various Ah Chows and
fj in fu^ to s ® cure the unlawful admission
” r °j“ er , H °w Funs. Some of the evidence
consisted of Chinese documents; and on
iT^v.- tbe barrister—a Chinese—-
et himself loose. One witness, brought
trom Hong Kong, was the translator to the
upreme Court there, and a high authority
on the weird language. Under Ah Kett’s
loss-examination he said a Chinaman might
have several names. The first was his
mnk name, given by his parents. At
senool he got a second name, and he ac-
quired a third one at marriage. If his
paients were dead he chose his own name.
He might have a fourth, called his “style
name, used by friends. The surname might
be a clan name. (About 300 names go all
round China s alleged 400.000,000 people.
here may be 100 million Wongs, there
being a big Wong clan.) The Hong Kong
man s name was Wong Tak Kwong. This
meant “King of Bright Virtue”; and ail
the others had a similar lofty significance.
It a man opened a shop he would further
choose a “shop name.” Ah Kett wrung
fiom Wong Tak Kwong the admission that
Lhinese words are slippery, so that it is
ditncult to_ understand what they mean. The
Canton dialect has 40,000 written words,
and the best educated man does not
know half of them. China, in a gen-
eral way, has rbout 40,000 letters in its
alphabet, only a letter doesn’t represent a
sound but an idea, or the shadow of an idea,
a tut by combining them you can almost get
at what you want. Thus a great literary
man may be “a man,” “literature,” “many
words,” “the top,” and “a precipice,” thus
snowing that the person is male, literary,
voluminous and elevated. In other words,
he is a sort of Dickens. China is a great
country in its way. It lacks a handy alpha-
bet, a uniform coinage, a uniform law code,
a general language, roads, railways, steam-
ers, banks, drains, a uniform taxation sys-
tem, a national army, a sense of nationhood,
and a few other things. But all the Discolored
Australia people swear that it is a great
country.
Vast improvements are taking place in the
neighborhood of Hyde Park, Sydney. No
further back than 10 years ago the southern
end of Elizabeth-street and that part of
Liverpool-street wlfich runs alongside the
park were occupied by ricketty dwelling-
houses and ricketty shops, many of
them very old. Now big business places are
pushing the last of the ancient landmarks
off the map, and with extraordinary rapidity
the neighborhood be-
comes one of the busi-
est retail centres of
Sydney. Some inter-
esting people squatted
round the park—it
was a racecourse once
—in the city’s early
days. Margaret Catch-
pole lived opposite the
south-west corner in
1839, and years later
Daniel Henry Deniehy
had a house there while
he served in the Assem-
bly. Deniehy’s cottage
is now in the knacker’s
hands, along with the
building in which the
grandfather of the pres-
ent flapper learned his
dancing. It was “Needs’
Academy” in those days.
Recent legal discussion
re the hearing of certain
divorce suits in camera
reminds of the old
Millais - Ruskin story.
John Ruskin remained
on friendly terms with
his former wife after her
marriage with John
Everett Millais, but in
his capacity of art critic
he wrote a rough notice
of one of Millais’s pic-
tures. When the painter
was chaffed about this
criticism he said: “Con-
found the fellow! I’ll
ask him to dinner and
show him our children.”
It was on the ground of
his incapacity to become a father that Mrs.
Millais had amicably divorced Ruskin in
camera.
* * * *
The newspaper reader in search of facts
does not go to the editorial columns. In
the editorial columns the newspaper wears
its mask and disguises its voice; _ also, it
wears gloves and carries an electric torch,
and has bags tied round its feet. The pri-
vate detective in search of truth knows these
things, and hurries round the back to the
fishing column, or strides up the side en-
trance and looks over the fence at the
literary supplement. In its issue of 20/9/’l3,
the S. M. Herald, that old friend of cheap
and discolored labor, contained an article by
a white man who has an overseer’s job on a
Fiji banana plantation, where the weeding
work is done by indentured Indians. Let
Hevree s understudy speak for himself:—
course this is only a small plantation. We
ship about 3000 bunches of bananas a month. Still,
renUv ; 0 j O< J d men a ß ainst one, and if they
Unt ly M to klll me they could do so 20 times a
, ut t , h vf y J* r ?, quiet now ' How did 1 work the
miracle? Ah, that’s a great secret; but I’ll tell you.
K th ? lr wa & es! That ’ s ‘he chief thing, and I
never beat a man unless he deserves it; but when I
a , v . ma . n 1 beat him Rood. Buka Ni Koro
m house), that’s my name among the
r plans. Ask anyone within a radius of 20 miles
from here, and they’ll tell you that’s right.
That’s the true slave-driving spirit. But
he isn t only a beater of men:—
GET THAT OFF YOUR MIND.
REV. FOOTLE: “Why is it, my boy, that your
father always avoids me? You should tell
him not to be afraid of me.”
YOUNG BILL (amazed): “Afraid o' youse!
I'd take yer on meself."
Look at that other woman. It’s simply shameful
how she neglects her child. 1 couldn’t make her give
it any tucker until I beat her, and I’ve got to
watch her still. I’m responsible for that kid, and
it’s lucky for him 1 am, for she’s done her best to
starve him. Nice little chap he is, too.
He tries to be kind and just—or as kind and
just as anyone in the Legree business can
afford to be. But while he is honorably
awarding himself bouquets, he is uncon-
sciously showing up his neighbors. Thus :
Most of the men work willingly enough for me,
and they are as happy as is likely under the circum-
stances. I don’t work them too long, and I get
more work out of them than they do on a lot of
plantations, where they have the men out sitting on
their hoes in the fields waiting for daylight, and
work them till they can’t see the ground at night.
I reckon the time will come—has come now-—when
things are changing quickly of themselves. The
Hindoos won’t come any more. Now it’s all Mad-
rassis we get, and they won’t come when they know
what it means.
How ugly this nigger-driving looks when
the working Legree tells his story straightly,
without respect of politics! The respectful
sheet sees to it that the ugly facts never get
into the political columns —the front garden,
so to speak, where the myths are cultivated.
The dark linen is hung out to dry in the
literary supplement, and anyone who wants
to see how much there is has to tip-toe round
the back like an inspector of nuisances.
The cause celebre at the Prahran (Vic.)
Council last week had for its central figure
one Abrahams, or the name might have been
Isaacs, or again Melchisedec. Cohen was
indicted before the bar of the council on a
charge of playing the Jew’s harp every
evening of the week and all day Sunday, in
so. loud and incompetent a manner as to
drive the neighbors half-demented. Warren
Hastings pleaded that his heart and soul
were in the instrument, and that he never
worked it more than three hours per even-
ing. Also he claimed that he was becoming
more expert, and hence less objectionable;
and he brought a counter-charge against
the neighbors of bombarding his roof with
road-metal. The council thought deeply for
a few minutes, and then handed the matter
to the finance committee to deal with—on
the ground, presumably, that this body con-
trols the supply of road-metal. It all goes
to show that the proceedings at lunatic
asylums and suburban councils have a tre-
mendous lot in common when everything is
said and done.
“N. or M.”:
Looks as if the
Ralph’s Bay Neck
canal (Tas.) will
go through at last.
The project has
many times been
looked at, turned
over and side-
tracked ; but the
Government now
has the matter be-
fore Parliament
and £20.000 is on
the Estimates. In
the early days a
tramway (still
traceable) ran
across the Neck,
and boats were
overlanded from
Ralph’s to Fred-
erick Henry Bay
to avoid the long
detour. The series
of shredded penin-
sulas that give the
map. of S.E. Tas-
mania a moth-eaten
appearance take a lot
of circumnavigating,
and the ark that now
attends to the busi-
ness makes a round
of the ports once a
week only. The direct
run made possible by
the proposed canal
and the one now exist-
ing at Dunallev
should open up a deal
of desirable and pic-
turesque country—
warm, “early” dis-
tricts suitable for the
cultivation of fruit,
early vegetables and
tourists. At present
the townships have a
look of decay, and the
country-side has only
a . thin population.
This, by the way, is
Oom Bill Lyne’s coun-
try, and the Lynes are
represented in force.
Also, it is one of the
most hospitable cor-
ners of this earth. It was an East Coast
Quaker who wrote to a Hobart newspaper
saying that he could see the road from his
house, and he regretted that so few of the
cyclists who passed along it called in to see
him and have a cup of tea.
EASIER TO CATCH.
S HE: “No, men don't interest ms a scrap.
I'm dead tired of 'em! They chase me
everywhere I go."
HE : “Ah, now I begin to understand why
you always wear such tight skirts."
A WARNING TO WEBBER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
. , , . Brisbane, Monday.
Ernest Austin was hanged in Boggo-road gaol this
morning for the murder of a little girl. The con-
demned man. in a short speech, expressed sorrow to
the parents of the murdered child. He said he had
asked God to forgive him. When the white cap was
adjusted he became excited, and said, “God save the
King.”
The man stood with the fatal rope
Around his neck at last;
His vain despair and vainer hope
Were matters of the past;
His soul had found eternal grace,
To life he did not cling,
And when the cap fell o’er his face
He said, “God save the King.”
A-nigh the golden Throne on High
He meant to pose anon,
So, being just about to die
He fixed his thoughts upon
The Lord’s anointed George, of whom
Our State-school children sing,
And waiting meekly for his doom,
He said, “God save the King.”
Each press reporter bared his head ;
The hangman groaned “Amen.”
The bolt was drawn, the bloke was dead,
And all was silence then,
Save for a murmur in the air
As Ernie’s soul took wing,
Breathing aloft the good old prayer,
“God save our Gracious King.”
O traitor Webber, M.L.A.,
Thou caitiff democrat,
Now tell us what have you to say
To loyalty like that ?
The knave who drinks no loyal toast
From gallows beam shall swing,
While o’er his dust dead Austin’s ghost
Shouts loud, “God save the King.”
VICTORIA.
O. K.


t
The office boy moves a vote of
censure on the general manager.
3>
The Bank re = opens to consider the
motion. Bill Smith, the caretaker,
in the chair
a
The ® an *
■‘ dlo “r„ s
4
3
before the division, amidst a scene o 1
wild disorder, the office boy throws the
spittoon at the general manager.
This accounts for the
office boy’s missing
vote.
PI
The office boy resumes duty.
The office boy defeated
by a majority of one.
VOTE OF CENSURE AT THE AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
As things would be if a bank were run on Party Government principles.


Tv°s e
(i£ oia^K^
v’b it^>
The Papuan Industries, Limited, a
company with a capital of £50,000, in
50,000 shares of £1 each, has been
formed primarily for the promotion of
missionary endeavor in New Guinea.
OmbbJ " HovC, d*T
1S •
gsd
(ur|cl€i / Sfw'ce't^Xrs'ticKy
to&ss} <* tf?e next" l>uncH
Will rrje of t>e»np
'sti*ckr ub "
GOVERNMENT
MAJORITY—
of 1
*lfre
Q\A ° rA *L
been doin^
folicerrjVi FisW;—' hC°^yod - "- )m liere "to
S'tof 3 .liim doino
he lletT^fj
V**'
( (2S,w>j»WH of-lf»e l^stor^is^s
V l)n »on^
' Inspecting-Superlntendent J. Milne
has decided that the young members
’ of the police force shall be instructed
weekly in the different duties they may
be called upon to perform. The offi-
cers will deliver lectures to them in the
gymnasium at Russell-street.
(Vldb P&Jser^
.— " So we rnus‘t^' /CK
/ Well, it - will "be change,
-—.—
jgc+wrer Kow remimWr; men, v/l)in
y'see 2v m2\hn We«\Kin' in"to \
“beforehim- Only Km y'm&Ke Sore
‘liCs ■ttTe! '
MOSTLY MELBOURNE.


Mr. Storekeeper, Mr. Miller, Mr. Seedsman, are
you aware that SrnitXs Ltd. are making calico and
hessian bags suitable for your requirements ? Smiths
print these bags in any, isumber of colors ; they are
anxious to obtain your business ; they can save you
money on your bag account; and are anxious to
get in touch with you. They will send you a sample
bag for purposes of comparison, duly printed, if
you so desire. If courteous service and utmost value
at bedrock prices appeal to you, then write to the
“Bag specialists,’’ T. Smith Ltd., Sussex Street,
Sydney.*
IT’S LIKE PLAYING HAMLET and leaving out
the Prince of Denmark to buy Penduplicate Books
not supplied with “Zanetic” Pen-copying paper. If
security is valued, and permanency of copy desired,
it is VITAL to be sure you are supplied with
“Zanetic.” Copies that fade are useless. “Zanetic’
paper ensures permanency of copy, whilst the latter
is denser and more distinct than the original. Of all
Stationers, or from Makers, S. B. Zanetic, Welford-
road, Leicester, England. Sample sheet, 2d. post free.*
THE VERY BEST THING.
“Some time back I had a severe cold and violent
cough,” writes Mrs. Grace Harris, Ashbourne Street,
Woolston, Christchurch (N.Z.). “I tried several so-
called remedies without obtaining relief. Noticing
an advertisement on Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy, I
purchased a bottle, and it gave me immediate relief.
I consider Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy the very
best thing I have ever come across.”*
GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
mm
WOODROW’S
HATS.
Distinctive in
Finish and Style
PARTICULAR HEN ALL WEAR WOODROWS.
EVERY DAY
more people are proving that
LUX
*
is the best washing preparation for
blankets, flannels, woollens and dainty
fabrics. Lux is scientific in its methods.
Lux coaxes rather than forces the dirt
from the clothes. Lux shortens the
work at the washtub —lengthens the
life of the clothes.
WON’T
SHRINK
WOOLLENS.
ru
ZJ,'
LEVER BROTHERS
LIMITED. SVDNEV.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Mrs. Wallace, the tough 80-year-old bush-
woman, who made a late appearance in the
newspapers a few months back by giving an
exhibition of riding at the Moree (N.8.W.)
Show, a la Kate Kelly, won t be able to
repeat the performance. She died a few
days back.
“H A.T.”: As The Bulletin says
(25/9/T3), Cranbrook, the N.S.W. State
Governor’s residence, used to belong to
Robert Towns. But he didn’t build it—he
bought it from the late Robert Tooth, one
of the founders of the big brewery, in 1867
or thereabouts.
It is probable that Justice A. H. Simp-
son will soon retire from the JN.S.n.
Supreme Court Bench, of which he is now
senior puisne Judge. At present there are
only two Supreme Court Judges on pension
—Henry Stephen and G. B. Simpson, the
former- 85 years old, the latter anything
from 70 to 80 years young.
Ainslie Caterer, the best-known modern
representative of S.A.’s best-known family
of schoolmasters, has, through ill-health,
dropped off the committee of S.A. Cricket
Association. Caterer was a famous slow
bowler of 30 years ago, and for a quarter
of a century or so has been second-in-com-
mand at St. Reter’s College. For longer
than that he has been an expert grower of
carnations and fowls. A breakdown in
health has brought him medical orders to
limit his activities; and, having done so,
he is already much better. The same S.A.C.A.
meeting which regretfully farewelled him
gave a life-membership to young John Cres-
well, in recognition of the service done for
it by his late father, who was for many
years its secretary.
TREFLE, Minister for Lands (N.S.W.).
Like his father-in-law and fellow sport-
ing-squatter Andrew Tennant, W. T. Mort-
lock (S.A.) left £550,000 behind. He prac-
tically owned the township of Tumby Bay,
on the West Coast, but always refused to
sell the land. If you wanted a house there
you told Mortlock, whereon he built it for
you and collected the rent. However, he
gave away at least two allotments, one for
a racecourse and one for a church; but,
whereas he built a grandstand himself he
left others to build the tabernacle. Despite
his thousands, if you met Mortlock out of
the city lie’d as likely as not have his boots
laced with string.
Died recently, Mrs. Filgate, of Clare, one
of the old-timers of South Aus. She was
a daughter of E. B. Gleeson, who came to
the “Province” long before it started teeth-
ing, and settled down to sheep-farming and
Governor-entertaining at Inchiquin, just
outside of Clare. Gleeson named Clare,
Armagh and Donoghue. The old gentleman
wasn’t French. He had four children —
J. W., who was a leading auctioneer long
ago; Edward, killed while riding from
Inchiquin to Hill River; Fanny, who mar-
ried brewer John Filgate; and Annie, who
is now the sole survivor of that branch of
the “old school.” Mrs. Filgate was well
over SO at her death, and her sister, at 73,
thinks nothing of a journey from Border-
town to Kangaroo Island.
Deiderich Ulpts, a violent German
Socialist, is about to invade Australia. He
is 3ft. high, and when he thunders from a
lecture platform he looks like an agitated
ant in spectacles. Ulpts is a journalist
from choice and a vaudeville entertainer for
lucre, and his nib and red nose help to keep
a fairly palatial residence going in Vienna.
Once he held a Government job in Berlin,
but partly on account of his deafening
correspondence in local journals, and chiefly
on account of his altitude, he was so con-
sistently overlooked in the matter of pro-
motions that he resigned and dashed through
the keyhole, never to return. He owns a
Viennese wife of sft. 7in. and two children
big enough to shut pa in the biscuit barrel
every time he deserves it.
A DIFFERENT SENSE.
HUBBY: "That's right! Rail and carry en
because I spend an evening at the club. I
don't expect to be able to make you see
what attracts a man to a club."
WIFE (calmly): "No, you don't make me see
it, but you make me smell it."
Stephen Mills, Australia’s new Controller-
General of Customs, joined the N.S.W.
Lands Department in 1880, as a surveyor.
From there he was transferred to the Works
as a sewerage engineer. Then he became a
barrister by examination. After directing
his energies in various Commonwealth Royal
Commissions (the Murray River, the Capi-
tal Site, and the Navigation Bill) he was
made Collector of Customs. Now he is
head of that huge Department. Inciden-
tally, he is among the best-read and best-
dressed men in the Public Service.
According to the cable news, Sir Edward
Carson, the leader of the threatened rebel-
lion of and prospective President
of the republic of Belfast, is on the verge
of nervous breakdown. That is the worst
of the amateur rebel. The great, successful
rebels —men like Bolivar, and San Martin,
and Iturbide, and Washington, and Gari-
baldi, and Moses, and Obrenovitch, and
Caesar, and a hundred others that could be
quoted, never went miserably to bed at the
critical moment with breakdown. There
were among them drunkards, liars, mur-
derers, epileptics, thieves, lunatics and sun-
dries —but they weren’t troubled with nerves.
Nerves are jumps, and a rebel with jumps is
a failure.
A MAN IN HASTE.
George Reid, on leaving for Australia, almost
missed the train. It had to be stopped for him.
—News item.
But George Reid was the first one into the
refreshment room.
“Armes” : Why I know not, but a tablet
to Colonel Tom Price has just been stuck
up in St. Paul’s Cathedral, Melbourne. I
suppose it’s only a matter of cash, for
Tommy Fire-low must have been a sparse
attendant on public worship. Anyhow, let
us keep in mind that he was the inventor
of Australia’s national khaki uniform, on the
model of the U.S. Confederates, who called
it the butternut. Before Tom introduced
his cavalry clothed in this pattern, the uni-
forms were a ridiculous jumble. The infan-
try were in scarlet, with shakoes a burlesque
imitation of the English (a Boer who met
the British soldier in the first Anglo-Dutch
war described him as a person who was
taught to dress himself in scarlet, give
three cheers, and then crawl unseen upon his
enemy). The cavalry were pantomime
English hussars, in busbies, with a shaving
brush stuck on, and a bit of red flannel
hanging out.
“Naumai”: William Russell, ex-leader of
Maoriland’s Opposition, who was finally
“called” last week, was one of the last of
the old Atkinson crowd and a politician of
the “You-may-kiss-my-Royal-hand” order.
“So long as Russell is leader we have noth-
ing to fear,” said Seddon. And he hadn’t.
Russell was a keen racer, and won two
Derbies in M.L.. but it was his great ambi-
tion to become Premier. His political con-
victions were ultra-Tory. “There may be
some amongst you who blame me, as I have
been blamed, for not having been able to
adapt my opinions to the current opinions
of the day,” he remarked once to his con-
stituents. “Current opinion” got back on
the Captain during the last phases of Sed-
don’s mana. He was too exclusively
“aristocratic,” and C.O. pushed him through
the window of things.
Samuel McCaughey, a great grass em-
peror in this country, was born at Bally-
mena, in the North of Ireland. (There is a
little branch railway thereabouts, and the
four stations thereon are Ballymena, Cully-
backey, Ballymoney and Coleraine. These
places are all near Ballyboley and Bally-
clare.) Samuel, whose latter name is pro-
nounced “McKakkey,” being drunk with
sheep and ipebriated with oxen, has sent a
handsome cheque to the comic-opera rebels
of Ulster. But the report that he cabled:
“Ask me for any money required” is denied.
It would be too vast an order.
Harry Wheeler, who followed
J. J. Virgo (now High Serang i n
London) as sec. of the Adelaide
Y.M.C.A., reckons that Carl Pi ns .
chof, of Melbourne, gave him Ms
first job because he was impressed
with the applicant’s hat, which had
been borrowed for the occasion
Wheeler has a stock of hats for
the downs-and-outs who call in at
the Y.M.C.A. for buns and moral
sustenance, and, if their cadies are
limp and dejected and falling away
at the knees, they are replaced
with goods of more affluent as-
pect. Wheeler once had the
opportunity of sitting on the
Bench with Judge Lindsey, of the
Denver (U.S.A.) Children’s Court,
and observing some of the amazing
little 7st. man’s methods. Lindsey,
on this occasion, told a youngster
before him that he was not wicked,
but weak. “I am going, to send
you to the reformatory to make a
man of you,” he said, and talked to the boy
in such a strain that the kid became enthu-
siastic. Then Lindsey gave him his com-
mitment papers and some spare cash and
told him to hurry along and catch the first
train to the reformatory.
The announcement last week of the retire-
ment, at the end of the year, of
Frederick William Ward from the editorial
chair of the Sydney Telegraph, after 15
years’ occupancy, is no news to newspaper
circles. Ward took control of the King-
street sheet in ISSS, and stayed there until
an argument with the directors, or a section
of them, led him to push in his resignation
in 1890. Thirteen years later they were
glad to get him back, and, some time ago,
when he mentioned his intention to retire
permanently, the Board besought him to
think better of it for the paper’s sake. Now,
the question is: Who is to get the vacant
chair V Anybody who has that information
concealed about him is comparatively
lonely.
“Father John” O’Mahony, Tasmania’s
best-known li.C. priest, has found out at
last that a man can’t for ever prepare ser-
mons, and do much parish work, and edit a
paper, and be an extra-strenuous and mili-
tant Labor politician. His strength has
given out pretty suddenly; and just when
his friends in all religious denominations had
raised £7OO to send him on a European holi-
day, he was obliged to retire to a private
hospital. The old Scotch Presbyterian,
Peter McCracken, M.L.C., was the chairman
of the committee of the O’Mahony testi-
monial fund. When it was proposed some
years ago to make Coolgardie (W.A.) an
R.C. see, Dr. John O'Mahony was nominated
as its first bishop, but the creation of the
new see was not confirmed at Rome.
“Briefless,” on his brethren: —
The South Aus. Bar is at the moment very poorly
off for promising advocates. In Symon, Downer,
and Nesbit, three of the ablest advocates in the
Commonwealth, and all still in good form, the Senior
Bar is well enough represented ; but they, with
Cleland, K.C., one of Symon’s partners, who has just
left for London, to argue the claims of S.A. in the
disputed “boundary” case, are the only seniors in
active, though intermittent, practice. Cleland.
though of late he has had far more court work than
any of the others, is not the equal in experience
of any one of the ancient “mouthpieces” who, with
the late C. C. Kingston, had a monopoly of “silk”
in the Wheat State for many years. The recent
accession to the inner Bar of “Paddy” Glynn is
not likely to allure many vagrant briefs his way.
In spite of his learning, this member of Go Crook’s
Ministry is rarely heard in the Courts. His partner,
Parsons, M.P. (Langdon
Bonython’s son-in-law),
and Frank Villeneuve
Smith —the busiest man
at the Adelaide Bar —are
easily the most prominent
juniors. A Villeneuve
Smith has been at some
time or other a prominent
Gent. One in every State
in the Commonwealth, bar,
perhaps, Queensland. Some-
how “Villeneuve” doesn’t
go well with “Smith.”
JENS JENSEN , M.H.K. (Tas.).
HELP FOR JESTERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Until last week there was a shortage of rain in
some parts, but the English visitors arrived—(cheers
and laughter)—and the rain came with them.
(Laughter and cheers.) — Q.-G. Denman, at Agricul-
tural Show luncheon.
It was the daily journalist who smiled upon the
board,
And, ’midst the food and bottles, “took” the jesting
of a lord.
The gash Inflicted on the ham —the chasm in the
cheese
Were narrower than his loyal grin, for he was there
to please.
He noted not the smirk of scorn —the slyly whispered
scoff,
The hiccup, and the scrape of feet impatient to be
off.
No. no! With ( laughter ) and (hear, hear ) he
gemmed his pencilled screed,
And put in ( cheers ) in likely spots, according to its
need.
Each wide-mouthed guest’s expectant bray was gladly
jotted down.
He (laughti r) wrote Fke ( laughter ) II —1, to chc r
the (hear, hear) town.
Oh, if I (cheers and laughter) owned a cocked hat
and a staff,
I wonder (cheers) if (laughter) this (loud roars)
would make you laugh ?
N.S.W.
THE SORE-FOOTED WAITER.
OUTING HELL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dr. Walsh, of the Theistic Church, New York, is
advocating the elimination of the word “Hell” from
the Bible. — Cable.
Oh, Hell it was an awful place—
The name is still disgusting!
You could escape it but through “grace,”
In days: when men were trusting.
But nowjthe shepherds all perceive
Their lambs are grown unwilling;
They quite agree strays should receive
A punishment less grilling.
So hear their hoarse, indignant shout,
Observe their fervid showing ;
’Tis: their intent to put Hell out
' By systematic blowing;
With salt ecclesiastic tears
They’d quench their ancient blunder,
Although ’tis now some fifty years
Since Hell was frozen under!
VICTORIA.
S.S.


=•?
1
1
1
i'v
L
W
m
mm
n
w
i r l: } r
IS
AUSTRALIA’S OWN.
rHE entry of the First Australian Fleet into Sydney Harbor marks an epoch in the history of the country, of which ever)'
true Australian feels justly proud.
Let your patriotism be practical. Do not let it stop at mere expressions of sentiment, but forward your country’s
welfare by supporting Australian Industries.
Our “Austral ” Suits, made of Marrickville Tweeds, are made by Australians —from wool grown in Australia, and
material manufactured in Australia and fully equal in quality to the products of other countries. Call or send for patterns and
our self-measurement forms. _ __
AUSTRAL SAC SUITS—To Measure, 635., 705., 755.
HancUmade, 845., 905., 955., 1055., 115 s.
“IT’S GOOD, IF IT’S GOWINGS’.”
COWING BROS.,
PIONEER DISTRIBUTORS OF AUSTRALIAN GOODS,
484, 486, 488 & 490 George Street; &3,5,7, 9, 11, 13, 15 & 17 Royal Arcade, Sydney


TO STOREKEEPERS
Why Carry Large Stocks of Single Cylinder Double Acting Power Pumps, when we can deliver
one or one dozen as you order from our stock ?
Write to use for prices on the DEANE Model A., Single Cylinder Double Acting Power Pumps,
with Brass-lined Cylinders. . , . A , ,
AGENTS in every State. If not m stock in your State, apply to —
SIMPSON BROTHERS, 32-34 Clarence Street, Sydney.
COUNTRY AOENTS REQUIRED.
SISKOL” ROCKDRILLS.
“SISKOL” HAMMERDRILLS.
"SISROL” COALCUTTER 5 *
International Channelling Machines Ltd.
DIERCKS <fc CO. PROP . LTD.,
465 Collins l * }OUrne '
55 York St., Sydney■
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Commercial Bank of Tasmania :
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
Aug., ’O5. .£11,532 12 p.c. = £8,914 £2,618£136,232
Premiums on new shares .. 8,508 144,740
Feb., ’06.. 11,298 12 p.c. = 9,450 £971 877 145,617
Aug.,’o6.. 13,811 12 ~ ~ 9,450 1000 3,361 148,978
Feb., ’07.. 14,564 12,, ~ 9,450 2000 3,114 152,092
Aug.,’o7.. 17,164 12 „ ~ 9,450 6000 1,714 153,806
Premiums on new shares .. 25,000 178,806
Feb., ’OB.. 17,120 12 p.c. = 11,025 2500 3,595 182,401
Aug.,’oB.. 16,272 12 „ ~ 11,025 2500 2,747 185, 48
Feb.,’’o9.. 16,142 12 ~ ~ 11,025 2500 2,617 187,765
Aug.,’o9.. 16,663 12 „ ~ 11,025 2500 3,138 190,903
Feb ’’lo.. 16,346 12 „ „ 11,156 2500 2,690 193,593
Aug ’lO 16,575 12 ~ ~ 11,156 2500 2,919 196,512
Feb.,’ll'.. 20,133 14 „ ~12,882 4000 3,271 199,783
Aug.,’ll.. 17,965 14,, ~12,862 5,103 204,886
Feb., ’12.. 17,941 14,, ~ 12,862 5,079 209,965
Aug.,’l2.. 17,221 14 ~ ~ 12,862 4,359 214,324
Feb.,’l3.. 17,987 14,, ~12,862 5,125 219,449
Aug.,’l3.. 18,071 14 „ „ 12,862 5,209 224,658
By comparison with some recent figures those for
the past half-year look better than they really are.
Here is another aspect of the matter: —
February, August, February, August,
1911. 1912. 1913. 1913.
Gross profit . . £37,480 £37,335 £40,268 £33,416
Less: _ , „„„
Expenses .. 12,705 14,225 14,194 14,67/
Taxes . . 642 1,089 87 668
£24,133 £22,021 £25,987 £18,071
Less:
Loss on British
Consols . . 4,000 4,800 8,000
Net Profit £20,133 £17,221 £17,987
So the profits shown for the half-year are better
than for the two that went before only because
Consols have been written down to £72, and it
hasn’t been thought necessary to write them down
any lower. The gross profits show a considerable
shrinkage, no doubt because the bank is now paying
a higher rate of interest all round as well as col-
lecting it. In the previous term or two it was col-
lecting a higher rate while paying the old low one
on a good many fixed deposits.
The balance-sheet figures are satisfactory enough:
Liabilities.
Aug., Aug.,
1912. 1913.
Notes and bills.. £8,820 £6,624 Dec. £2,196
Deposits . .1,854,353 2,018,728 Inc 164,375
Assets.
Liquid assets .. 700,694 779,761 Inc. 79,067
Advances ..1,511,326 1,604,159 Inc. 92,833
Premises . . 53,338 53,952 Inc. 614
Contrary to a pretty common experience both de-
posits and advances have grown during the 12
months. The deposits and other liabilities now total
£2,025,352; the liquid assets are £779,761. Thus
the bank holds liquid 38 p.c. of the public’s money ;
and the holding ought to be enough for safety in all
but very exceptional circumstances. This should
mean that, provided the bank can keep somewhere
about its present total of deposits, there is no reason
why it should call in satisfactory advances. The
capital is £175,000; and combined capital and re-
serves are equal to £1 for every £5 Is. of the
public’s money in deposits, etc. This is a reason-
able proportion, too ; many banks have more public
money at risk than that, and still regard their de-
positors as well secured. Certainly one can t tell
from a bank’s figures what sort of securities it has
put its own and the public’s money into ; but in
this case the position is as follows: With its liquid
assets it could pay all its creditors 7s. Bd. in the
£, and the non-liquid assets could have a general
slump 25 p.c. below book-value and still show
enough to pay the creditors the other 12s. 4d. in
the £-
* » * *
The Adelaide Steamship ’Co. ;
Net To Re-
May Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1901 „. £47,041 5 p.c. = £25,359 £21,682 £21,682
1902 ~ 91,329 10 „ „ 50,718 40,611 62,293
June,
1903 ... 94,978 9i „ „ 50,718 44,260 106,553
1904 .... 86,104 10 „ ~ 50,718 35,386 141,939
1905 ... 86,998 10 „ „ 50,718 36,280 178,219
1906 ... 76,307 10 „ „ 50,718 25,589 203,808
,907 .. 83,890 10 „ „ 50,718 33,172 236,980
1908 . . 82,850 10 „ „ 50,718 32,132 269,112
£202,870 transferred to capital .. 66,242
1909 ... 84,112 10 p.c. - 62,129 21,983 88,225
1910 . . 85,462 10 „ „ 71,004 14,458 102,683
1911 . . 67,221 10 „ „ 71,004 98,900
1912 .. 51,852 8 „ ~ 56,804 93,948
1913 ... 49,874 3 ~ ~ 21,301 28,573 122,521
The co. paid a dividend at the rate of 6 p.c. p.a. for
the first half of the year, but finds it prudent to pay
nothing at all for the second half. The fact of the
matter is it is suffering from swelled capital. In
1900 the capital was £202,870 in £lO shares, which
had been selling at under par. Within a year or
two they moved up briskly to £25. In 1901 all
the reserves—nearly £250,000 were then visible —
disappeared, and the capital was thus bumped up
to £507,175. Seven years later the reserves were
again tapped, and the capital was swollen to
£710,045. This trebling of capital within a few
years is more than the co. can stand except in very
good times; and a co. can’t depend on very good
times all the time. Further, although it was push-
ing out its business and building many new and
big ships to keep pace with the others in the inter-
state trade, it didn’t call on its shareholders for any
help. On the contrary, it paid them a dividend
equal to about 30 p.c. on the capital they had actu-
ally put into the business. The rapid outlay on
ships, the big payments in dividends and the fact
that no new capital was got in from shareholders
have between them produced a big debt. The posi-
tion in this respect has changed as follows in five
years*—
1908. 1913.
Liabilities (unused tickets and
sundry creditors) .. £154,709 £534,875
Liquid assets (cash, bills,
debtors, agents’ balances) . . 60,917 61,861
Liabilities in excess of
Liquid assets .. ~ £103,792 £473,014
The “sundry creditors” item no doubt includes a
large amount of money for which the co. has to pay
interest. In other words, there is a large amount of
unfixed preference capital now in the business ; and
the trouble is that in bad times, when the profits
are reduced, this capital actually costs more than in
good times, when the profits are large. Hence, no
doubt, a good deal of the very serious slump in
visible profits—that is, profits after the interest has
been paid—during the last couple of years. Of
course there have been other causes at work. For
one thing, the co. has had pretty rotten luck with
its vessels. In 10 years the Franklin., the Kara-
weera, the Croydon, the Albany, the Willyama, the
Yongala, the Colac and the Koombana have been
lost, besides numerous smaller ships, and various
strandings, fires, etc., have made a big hole in the
profits, in spite of outside insurances. In 1910 the
co.’s own insurance reserve was over £30,000, and
notwithstanding large payments into it since then,
it has now been reduced to £15,000. Also costs
have increased. The co., like others in the shipping
trade, had a fine innings, making profits of close
upon £lOO,OOO a year on its very moderate capital.
The shareholders were then getting their bite out
of the abnormally big apple that Australia was
growing. The time arrived when the co.’s work-
people thought they should have their bite; and
they have been getting it lately. Moreover, they
will probably go on getting a larger bite than they
used to get; they will probably go on getting it, in
fact, after the apple has shrivelled. Things may
undergo the process generally spoken of as “righting
themselves” in time; but if that means that officers
and men are not going to get more money in the
future than they have in the past, no matter what
the conditions of trade may be, things will probably
not “right themselves.” The tendency seems all
towards a higher permanent standard of wages at
present, anyhow. Freights may no doubt be in-
creased ; but if they are increased and the profits
thus swell again, the chances are that labor demands
will swell too.
The Modern Permanent Building and
Investment Society (Melbourne), from the date of
the great cleaning-up :
Trad- Profit
ing on To Re- Re-
Profit. Sales. Dividends. serves, serves.
July, £ £ £ £ £
1911 .. 4819 329 Si p.e. = 3381 1767 23,863
1912 . . 4954 1267 5 „ „ 4830 1391 25,254
1913 . . 5733 2422 6} „ „ 6279 1876 27,130
The vigor of the cleaning-up mentioned above may
be judged by the fact that the-broom swept £96,605
of capital off the premises, leaving a similar amount
to the credit of shareholders. There was really no
need to do quite so much as that, because there
were assets to represent another £22,096 of capi-
tal ; but a straight cut through the middle seemed
the simplest thing to do, and the assets left over
were turned into a reserve fund. The next list shows
the subsequent proceedings :
1911. 1912. 1913.
Liabilities ..£29,588 £31,500 £35,372
Balances owing . . 85,511 95,739 101,640
Freehold house pro-
perty . . . . 8,000 4,000 2,500
Vacant land . . 8,542 7,348 5,962
Premises . . . . 50,000 50,000 50,000
Other assets . . 1,384 1,101 2,870
The society is thus going slow. The remnants of the
old foreclosed properties are very small; and for the
most part the society is now engaged collecting the
instalments on account of the sales it has made, and
finding other borrowers for this money and a trifle
besides. The four or five thousand pounds which it
has lent out, in addition to what it has collected
from its own borrowing customers, it has obtained
on deposit; but the bulk of its liabilities consists of
a mortgage on the office premises. These premises
represent more than half the capital, and return
very little more than 5 p.c. net, though the figure is
improving. Rattling good interest is, however, got on
the unpaid balances. This is mainly the result, no
doubt, of the exceptionally heavy rents of late; to
escape them persons with a few pounds at their
command have bought properties on long terms,
troubling little about what rate of interest they pay
so long as the weekly or fortnightly instalments of
principal are small. As for the future, the building
society, , as a class, doesn’t seem to promise any
dazzling results. The State, through Savings Banks
and Advances to Workers Departments, and such
like, is nearly everywhere offering very cheap money
to the man of small means who wants to establish
himself in a home; and this competition is not
going to do the profits of building societies any
good. In S. Australia, for instance, where the State-
advances idea has been in operation for many years
—it started long before a Labor Premier arrived —there
isn’t a building society making a decent living. Yet
there ought to be room for a few building societies;
in fact, the disfavor into which these concerns fell
after the Melbourne trouble of the early ’9o’s was
quite unmerited. The management of most, but not
all of them, had been bad, just as the management
of any other good thing may be bad; and that was
the worst that can be said of very useful and desir-
able institutions.
* * * *
Beard, Watson, Ltd. (Sydney), house
furnishers, etc.: —
Dividends.
Pref. To Re- Re-
July, Profits. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
1909.. £5,341
Premiums on new shares, £46 .. 5,387
1910. . £12,232 £768 10 p.c. = £4374 £7090 12,477
1911.. 11,943 900 10 „ „ 5000 6043 18,520
1912.. 14,737 956 10 „„ 5152 8629 27,149
1913.. 11,314 1697 10 „ „ 7214 2403 29,552
The co. now pays its dividends half-yearly; and
when, two or three weeks ago, the greater part of
the main business premises collapsed one midnight,
while some structural alterations were in progress, it
was doubted whether the ordinary distribution would
be made for this six months. However, the very
heavy loss evidently falls on the insurance cos., and
the div. goes out as usual. The present co. took
over the business about a dozen years ago, and appar-
ently leaned up against its bank pretty heavily.
When money was plentiful a while back the oppor-
tunity was taken to get some of it from the public;
and it is only since then that figures have been avail-
able. The capital now is £30,000 in 6 p.c. cumula-
tive pref. shares and £75,000 in ordinary shares;
and with the possible exception of £13,186 repre-
sented by leaseholds, all this capital and the rapidly
growing reserves are represented by tangible assets.
The stock is large and much of it is of the good
and expensive variety; hence this item alone runs
into £120,326 —only about £14,000 less than the
aggregate of the capital and reserves. As book debts
are also heavy (£63,127), it follows that the co.’s
own liabilities are pretty weighty ; on July 31 they
reached £71,088. The security of this co.’s shares
cannot, therefore, be regarded as gilt-edged ; there
are no city freeholds, no public securities, and (unless
you regard the book debts as liquid) no liquid assets
to speak of. But, in addition to the stock and other
non-liquid assets, there is the business connection;
and, as before mentioned, this is an asset (no doubt
hypothetical) which does not figure in the balance-
sheet. As for profits, those of the past four years
have been fairly uniform; nevertheless it is worth
noting that last year shows the smallest figures, not-
withstanding that there is now twice as much capital
and reserves in the business as there was in 1910.
This suggests that poor times are liable to seriously
affect a business of this kind. Probably the baker
and the bootmaker have very much the same turn-
over in poor times as in good; but it is only in
good times that men’s thoughts turn lightly to new
carpets and settees. The pref. capital now calls
for an annual dividend of £lBOO ; to pay the ordin-
ary shares 10 p.c. means another £7500. So the
co. must show £9300 profit to pay 6 and 10 p.c.
respectively; and even the past year, which wasn’t
really a poor year because it followed a very good
wheat harvest, showed only £2014 more than that.
The 10 p.c. can’t therefore be regarded as a fixture.
The pref. shares, by the way, have a very solid pref-
erence. The real value of a preference lies in the
proportion which that class of capital bears to the
total; and in this case it is less than one-third of the
lot, so that the entire capital need earn only 2 p.c.
to make the pref. dividend safe. One other thing
certainly may affect preference shareholders —deben-
tures and other debts. These, of course, come in
ahead of even pref. shares; and the eye of the pref.
shareholder must always be turned on that section
of a co.’s accounts.
Joe Gardiner, Ltd. (Sydney), formed to
take over various boot-retailing shops as from
August 1, 1911 (the deficit to begin with was made
up of Goodwill £6777 and flotation exes. £1138) :
To Re-
Julv, Profits. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
1911 £7915
1912 .. £7,800 10 p.c. = £3500 £4300 3615
• Reserves.
1913 .. 12,465 12J „ „ 4375 8090 4475
On the figures, that is a very fine showing. Whether
things are as good as they look depends on the stock-
taking. ' “Stocks in hand and goods in transit, as
certified by members of the staff,” are valued at
£48,663. A pessimist going through the shelves
might possibly be able to make it £2OOO less ; and
that would lop £2OOO off the profits. Whether it’s
a pessimist or an optimist who makes the valua-
tions one can’t tell from the accounts; but as one of
the two outsiders on the Board is a man with a lot
of experience in stocktaking, there shouldn’t be
much chance of serious miscalculations. Apart from
stock the assets are not extensive; freeholds run to
£2llO, leaseholds to £2911, plant to £3856, cash
to £4351 and book-debts to £1275. The leaseholds
are being written down rapidly; no less than
£1127 was charged against profits last year to
cover depreciation of leases and plant. The smallness
of the book-debts is a pleasant feature: it means
that, on its very modest capital of £35,000, the
co. can afford to carry much bigger stocks than
would otherwise be possible. When the present co.
was formed by the energetic organiser who built
up the business on very little capital, the object
was to provide for extensions, while reducing the
burden of debt. At the end of the first year, the
co.’s liabilities were £24,301 ; now, though over
£5OOO has been added to the stock and a trifle
to the cash in hand, liabilities are back to £20,568.
A co. that can do this out of accumulated profit is
on a good wicket; and it is on an extraordinarily
good wicket if it can go on doing it. As a gilt-
edged security it isn’t, of course, to be looked at,
for there is' hardly any freehold —practically no-
thing, in fact, except merchandise stock, and on that
the co. owes over £20,090. On the other hand,
since it puts all its resources into stock, and sells
for cash, it can manage a big turnover on a com-
paratively small capital; and while paying a good
dividend, it has enough profit over to reduce its
liabilities while extending its business.
R. H. Gordon and Co., Ltd., furniture
and time-payment salesmen, etc. (Sydney) :
To Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
June, 1909.. £11,416
Dec., 1909.. £7,942 10 p.c. = £2500 £5442 5,974
June, 1910.. 7,033 10 „ „ 2571 4462 1,512
Reserves.
Dec., 1910.. 10,600 10 „ ~ 2686 7914 6,402
, A N
Pref.
6 p.c. Ord.
June, 1911.. 10,432 260 10 p.c.=2745 7427 13,829
Dec., 1911.. 13,065 533 10 ~ ~ 2765 9767 23,596
June, 1912.. 11,112 Div. & Bonus 3896 7216 30,812
Dec., 1912.. 13,317 „ „ 3719 9598 40,410
Reserves transferred to capital or
distributed, £12,393 . . 28,017
June, 1913.. 11,495 600 10 p.c.=3297 7598 35,615
Six months ago the paid capital (disregarding a few
pounds of unpaid calls) was £82,000: now it is
£94,000, made up of £20,000 fully-paid £1 prefs.,
£60,000 fully-paid £1 ordinaries, and 20,000 £1
ordinaries paid to 14s. No new shares have been
sent to market during the half-year, but the last
issue of 20,000 ordinaries have been paid up from
2s. to 14s. The bulk of the £12,393 distributed
among holders of ordinaries by way of a 20 p.c.
bonus went in paying up these shares. Of the re-
serves which remain, £28,875 is to the credit of a
general reserve fund, £6500 is dividend equalisation
fund, and the small balance is unappropriated profit.
The general reserve fund appears to be some sort of
provision against risks connected with incomplete
transactions; and in the published Profit and Loss
account the additions to this reserve are not rec-
koned as profit. The accounts show things this way:
Profit (as per Unexplained
P. and L. Additions to
Account). Reserve Fund.
June, 1909 . . .. £4137 1
Dec., 1909 .. .. 5822 £2120
June, 1910 .. . . 5585 1448
Dec., 1910 . . . • 7339 3261
June, 1911 . . . . 6840 3592
Dec., 1911 .. 8156 4909
June, 1912 . . . • 7212 3900
Dec., 1912 . . ' . . 8618 4699
June, 1913 .. .. 7228 4267
It was, presumably, because many of the risks which
had been provided for in advance turned out all
right that the recent 20 p.c. bonus was paid. But
that doesn’t go for much. With work plentiful and
wages better than usual, one wouldn t expect many
household time-payment bargains to be thrown back
at a loss on the salesman’s hands; nor would one
expect many losses in the cash-order business in
which the co. also takes a hand. Things may be
different when times change, and work is scarcer
and jobs are much harder to get and more precari-
ous when they are got. Perhaps, making use of the
elaborate agencies which have been organised by
these and other people in the time-payment business,
comparatively few bad debts may still be made,
but the turnover will certainly be restricted. In
fact, something of the kind seems to have happened
already. Take this comparison:—
Property, Stock, Sundry
Fittings, etc. Debtors.
June, 1909 . . £7,206 £41,391
Dec., 1909 . . 6,944 50,230
June, 1910 . . 8,577 53,880
Dec., 1910 . . 53,782 68,402
June, 1911 .. 58,485 74,684
Dec 1911 • • 69,889 90,630
June, 1912 .. 75,454 89,148
Dec. 1912 ..' 80,995 103,491
June, 1913 .. 83,455 9i, 38/
“Sundry debtors” are, of course, chiefly unpaid bal-
ances ; and the. shrinkage in this item in the last
half-year is significant. Considering the amount of
money on the co.’s books the co.’s own liabilities are
small. Thev amount to £16,816 on general account
and £34,350 by way of mortgage on an extensive
lately-purchased freehold. On the other hand, it has
to be remembered that, no matter how business may
shrink in dull times, the share capital can’t be paid
off; and there is a lot of it now —£94,000 —for the
business to keep. Altogether, it is an exceedingly
profitable undertaking when prosperity rules the land,
and the people buy and hang the expense, believing
that prosperity always will rule; but what is no
doubt the co.’s most profitable branch is liable to
suffer more than most businesses when money is
scarce and the community decides that, while it must
have new sausages and socks, it can do very well
with the old carpet and crockery.
James Martin and Co., Ltd., formed to
take over an old-established Sydney machinery busi-
ness as from June, 1911 (the deficit with which the
co started was represented by goodwill and flotation
expenses, £10,236, less £1978 of reserves): —
Writ-
ten Towards De-
Tnne Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves, ficit.
£8258
1912 7. £8,763 8 p.c. = £2052 £4OO £5611 2647
Reserves.
1913 . . 11,209 8 „ „ 5032 400 5777 3130
This was one of the good industrial floats of a time
when most industrial floats were being loaded out-
rageously with goodwill. James Martin had been i,
business as a machinery agent and salesman >■
many years. Then one day, when he wasn't feelini
too well, a peremptory demand for a few hundrm
pounds came in from a foreign firm for which h
had long been agent. He never got over the shock 6
and died shortly afterwards. For 12 years the
trustees carried on the business, and though a 3 6
rule, trustees are hampered in a concern of this
kind, they did so well that, whereas there was
£12,157 of capital in the business when the founder
died, by the beginning of 1912 there was £32 657
apart from goodwill and the estimated value of lease-
hold ; and the business had made the extra £2O 500
in addition to the amounts drawn out. The goodwill
was sold to this co. for £8000; leasehold for a; 4000-
other assets (net), £32,657; total, £44 657’
The Martin estate took no cash, but ’ the
assets were paid for by 44,657 shares. The
public, though offered 55,343 shares, sub-
scribed for only 22,699 ; and the balance of the
more or less fixed money required in the business has
been raised by mortgage debentures, which now stand
at £44,000. Besides these debentures the co. owes
£36,632 on various accounts. Total share capital
£67,350; total debenture and other debt, £80,632’
This heavy weight of debt has its disadvantages!
While things go well, the shareholders make monev
out of it, no doubt; on the other hand, it means that
shareholders have to guarantee, under all conditions,
the interest and principal of other people’s money.’
To ease the liabilities and provide for further busi-
ness extensions, it is intended to offer another 20,000
shares.
The co.’s machinery trade is largely with farmers,
who buy a great deal of their plant on terms; and
that involves a big lock-up of capital. Sundry debt-
ors on June 30 stood at no less than £101,865, of
which £75,822 was represented by hire or time-
payment agreements, exclusive of unearned interest.
Two-thirds of all the tangible assets are on the
books; the other third consists of stock-in-trade
( £39,953), plant, freehold ( £8441 less £5471 on
mortgage) and sundries. The turnover has had a
splendid growth during the past few years. From
£55,454 in 1908 it grew to £109,234 in 1911; and
last year there was a further increase of 10 p.c. over
the 1912 figures. This growth is no doubt abnormal.
The area under wheat in N. S. W T ales was 1,939,447
acres in 1906, and one bad season had the effect of
actually reducing the area for a year or two, while
in 1909 it was still only 1,990,180 acres. The 1909-
10 harvest was, however, very good; and that fact
and the abundance of money caused such a rush that
in a couple of years 2,380,000 acres were under cul-
tivation. There are, no doubt, millions of acres of
wheat land still idle; but it is practically certain
that the development of the business will be much
slower than it was after the bumper harvest of 1909-
10 ; in fact, after a bad year a considerable area will
most likely go out of cultivation. Still, though the
implement maker’s turnover cannot, therefore, be
expected to go on growing as it grew during the
recent agricultural boom, when hundreds of new
farmers called for complete plant outfits ; and though
it may be even more difficult to get the prices that
have been willingly paid in the very flush years, the
agricultural implement business is a permanent one.
Its profits will certainly fluctuate, but it is here to
stay ; and shareholders are entitled to get a lot of
comfort from the fine profit shown by the business
over a long run of years.
The Ardlethan market was turned inside
out last week. It was a bladder. The principal
bull, who had been buying for men without either
means or “cover” to speak of, went to the wall.
In such circumstances the people most heavily in-
terested in the stock generally come to the rescue.
But Carpathias had no such friends. On the day
when the failure took place the market would have
fallen well below 10s. if the bears themselves had
not come to the rescue. The position was extra-
ordinary. The bears had sold thousands of shares
to the man who had failed, and these shares were
one of his chief assets. In the circumstances the
only thing to do was to steady the market; so the
bears became bulls for the time being—-for time
enough, anyhow, to allow the stuff to be realised.
What will happen now depends on the mine—not
on what people say about it, but what it actually
does in £ s. d. The misfortune is that a good many
people have been gulled by some of the worst puffing
that has ever disgraced the Sydney dailies into
believing that the price of Carpathias was, if any-
thing, unduly depressed, whereas it is now clear that
the price has only been maintained by wholesale
purchases on account of men who have neither paid
for the shares nor have the means to pay for them.
Cadia, the aluminous, heavy-to-mine and
none too rich copper deposit outside Orange (N.S.W),
periodically gives signs of animation as it sluggishly
stirs under the goad. Stoppages of the blast fur-
nace have been frequent, because, for one thing, the
ore contains so little sulphur. Sulphides from Little
Cadia, a show in the vicinity that got the weary
feeling before it even started its own furnace, are
now being tried, and there are hopes that this will
provide the long, steady pull for which the co. has
been preparing so long.
* * * *
Eleanora, at Hillgrove (N.S.W.)* takes a
breathing spell after the strenuous exertion of at-
tempting to discover a mine and erect a treat-
ment plant. This is a costly business at best, and
it is now admitted that the funds once more require
replenishment. #
Mount Hope (N.S.W.) has been induced
to shyly poke out its head, on the assurance that
the metal-market sky is propitious. The old snow,
80 miles from Condobolin, is said to have produced
£700,000 worth of copper, most of it when prices
were poor. As the poor prices promised to con-
tinue, the mine closed down. Anyway, that is the
storv. It has a familiar sound about it, somenow.
Someone, a little bolder than the rest, declares ti
the ore-body is 50ft. wide, carrying from 5 to b P-c-
-copper ; and though these may be only round ngure.,
the old workings are worth another e *P lo l atl , ’
though there would be a lot more hope if “ i eßr
Hill railway line had been started from Condob
and carried as far as the mine. #
Mount Ross (N.S.W.) makes a sixpenny
call, the explanation being that money is need . ,
sink a shaft on the crater formation beneath wm
a diamond pipe is suspected of lurking. “ ,
work has developed new ground carrying diamon®.
and the indications are supposed to be & ooa - ~
diamonds taken from the main discovery are
white. One of them weighed 2§ carats—much °
the usual weight of Australian diamonds, which ,
a rule, very small, though many are of ftrst_rai
quality. If there is anything in the theory of PP
rock formations, this district seems in a fair J .
stumble on one, provided its patience doesn t g
too soon. This is not its first diamond revival.
That sick-and-sinking feeling which gets
worse the longer it goes on is troubling t ary
gamated Hill End (N.S.W.). l t o^a ined a mp rocess
relief by partial suspension, but thatis r
that can’t be kept going. The big expectations u»
made the prospectus scintillate have sadly Thg dis .
many of them hav" dropped off thei stall • lode
covery of a 3in. vein near the Sta that the
is sufficent now to cause a flutter j s eagerly
mendicant reaches when a humble tray
grabbed at. t *
Golden Springs, formerly Browns
(N.S.W.), after a pumping campaignoffo beinpr
is drv to the 250 ft. level. The 200 ft. level
cleaned up, and the debris washes ve y P a djcat j on of
pects, which, however is very httle indi , g
the actual value of the body. pp _ „, imn ljng. and
being trenched at 10ft. intervals f ' nce to be
winzes will be sunk to determine th


Ensure the Safety of
Your Estate
BY APPOINTING
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY, LTD.,
As Executor and Trustee under Your
Will,
Trustee of Your Marriage or other
Settlement,
Attorneys under Power or Agents.
Subscribed Capital, £1,000,000. Reserves, £62,000.
Perpetual Deposit with Government, £20,000.
LOW CHARGES. UNDOUBTED SECURITY.
Write or call tor Booklet, giving full information.
2. 4 and 6 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
A. J. MACKENZIE, Manager.
DO YOU REQUIRE POWER?
IF SO,
Kynoch Cas Engines & Producer Plants
WILL GIVE YOU
HIGHEST Efficiency with LOWEST Costs.
90 William St., Mel-
bourne ;277 Clarence
St., Sydney. And at
Adelaide, S.A., and
Perth, W.A.
HARK
A
And, of course, such an institution, while being
good for the individual farmers, is a fine thing for
the country. The country wants producers—farmers
—and the best way to get farmers is to make farm-
ing profitable; and one way to make farming pro-
fitable is to reduce the cost of farmers’ requisites
while increasing the return for farmers’ products.
No agency can do that so well as co-operation ; and
within its wide sphere, no co-operative agency can
do it so well as the N.Z. Farmers’ Co-operative Asso-
ciation of Canterbury.*
A great mistake, when erecting new works or re-
arranging old ones, is often made in constructing the
building and installing machinery ere looking round
for means of transport of the raw material, half-
manufactured and finished goods. Messrs. Adolf
Bleichert and Co., of London, have issued various
catalogues and leaflets, illustrating and describing a
few of the many transport systems and plants which
they have supplied, and which show the solution of
the transport question and the advantages of em-
ploying such appliances. W. and J. Lempriere,
Melbourne and Sydney, are the Australian representa-
tives, and would be pleased to hear from those in-
terested. A specially trained engineer is retained to
consult and advise.*
* -4 * *
Mine managers and engineers contemplating Re-
inforced concrete construction should write for par
ticulars of the Indented Steel Bar, which gives the
greatest bond, and is the strongest and cheapest re-
inforcement on the market. Used by the N. S.
Wales and Queensland railways for bridges, by the
Sydney Water and Sewerage Board for elevated re-
servoirs, by the N. S. Wales Government Architect,
and by all the leading architects. Should guaranteed
designs be required for concrete structures, our ex-
pert will be pleased to furnish plans and descrip-
tions. Apply, Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.*
* * * *
Efficient grinding is one of the many problems
that mine managers have to solve. The Hardinge
Conical Mills have proved to the Calumet and Hecla
Mining Co. that grinding is not such a difficult
problem ; they have installed 64 of them, and say
“the Hardinge Conical Mill is the most efficient
grinding machine we have yet gotten hold of.” If
they say this of the mills, it should be worth the
while of mine managers here to inquire about them.
The Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are
the sole representatives for them in the Common-
wealth, and will be glad to forward particulars.* [1
Extract from Financial News, London, July 12,
1911: “The annual report of The Colonial Mutual
Life Assurance Society affords abundant evidence
that ‘Forward’ is still the watchword of the direc-
tors ; for in every direction admirable progress has
been achieved.’’*
PIONEER WOOD PIPE, used in and around the
mine, means a direct saving, cost of installation is
minimised, as also the cost of upkeep, for Wood
Pipe is not subject to the action of acids, minerals
or sulphur fumes. Catalogue from The Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., 57 York Street, Sydney
(Head Office).*
Ample evidence of the increasing popularity of
the Hornsby manufactures is the fact that no less
than three mining cos. —Goldsworth Gold Mines
Ltd., Uralla; The Phoenix Gold Recovery Co., Hill-
grove ; and The True Blue Mines, West Wyalong—-
within one week after exhaustive enquiries have
placed their order for the “Hornsby” Suction Gas
Engine and Plant, These plants are recognised by
experts to be thoroughly up to date, simple to work,
and a vast saving in fuel used, charcoal or coke
being all that is required to produce the gas, and
the small amount of attention required. R. Hornsby
and Sons Ltd., Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane.*
The highest returns for all kinds of residues are
obtained from Harringtons Ltd. of 386 George
Street, Sydney, who buy large or small quantities of
jewellers’ sweeps, polishings, handwash and lemel,
process workers’ residues, plating baths and any
other materials containing gold, silver or platinum.
Assays are executed for jewellers within two or three
hours, and prospectors and others are assured of
immediate attention. All kinds of analytical and
metallurgical work can be executed promptly and
advice given on all branches of industrial chemistry
and metallurgy. The whole of the work is directed
by a qualified analyst and metallurgist from Johnson
and Sons, London, Assayers and Refiners to the Bank
of England, H.M. Mint, the Council of India, etc.,
and who are acting as London agents for Harring-
tons Ltd. for the treatment of large parcels of
sweeps, residues, ores, etc. Direct shipment of such
lots can be arranged.*
Have You an Toea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh Street, Syd-
ney.*
* * * *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
The H.M.A.S. Australia, about to arrive on our
coast, is fitted entirely with Babcock and Wilcox
Water-tube Boilers, similar to the H.M.S. New Zea-
land and other Dreadnoughts recently built for the
Admiralty.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
Assayeiis, Mine Managers and Prospectors write
to H. B. Silberberg AND Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, and at Melbourne, for particulars concerning
mining requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s
disc pulverisers to 200 mesh ; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain ; prospectors’ balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles: chemicles; etc.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatins
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
driven westward at the 250 ft. level. It has been a
jong job and p luckily carried out, and most people
will be glad to see the old producer at work again.
The long-drawn-out shop assistants’
strike at Broken Hill is a straw which tells the
way the current runs. The 8000 or so miners of
course want more wages if they can be got, and when
the existing agreement runs out the big union’s
idea will be to show that local conditions have
changed and the cost of living has gone up since the
matter was last decided. The simplest, and perhaps
most effective, way to prove it would be to show
that shopkeepers were paying more, and hence were
certainly charging more; so this strike of assist-
ants was engineered. It points to the probability of
a much bigger trouble presently.
* * * *
“Underlay” : Last week a few influential
brokers caught in Oxide Creeks moved the Sydney
Stock Exchange committee, and got a new “regula-
tion” passed to protect any man or men big
enough to have it put into operation. The “regula-
tion” says: “The committee may suspend, either in-
definitely or for such time as they think fit, the buy-
ing in of any debentures, transfers, scrip or other
securities, when circumstances appear to them to
make such suspension desirable. The committee may,
from time to time, either during its continuance or
after the termination of any such suspension, remove,
renew, or re-impose such suspension.” In other words,
carry out contracts when they are not too hard, or
hold them off till they get easy; in any case,
“heads” I win, “tails” you lose. If the public is
caught it must pay to the farthing ; if a few “bear-
ing” brokers are caught, they may suspend till fine
weather. But the Exchange puts too big an esti-
mate on itself; it can no more over-ride the law of
contracts that it can maintain sanctuary for one of
its members charged with (say) murder.
Gold dividends amounting to £650,000
were paid by Westralian cos. during the nine ex-
pired months of this year. To this total Great
Boulder contributed £196,875, Ivanhoe £135,000,
Kalgurli £72,000, Associated Northern £35,000,
Boulder Perseverance £34,986, and Sons of Gwalia
£32,500. Great Boulder has now paid away
£4,153,675, Golden Horseshoe £3,075,000, and Ivan-
hoe £3,153,750; and the 'Shoe and Ivanhoe will
probably still be living after everything else has
died away at Kalgoorlie. Of the big mines, the
Boulder will be the first to go under, unless present
appearances lie.
Kalgoorlie is wondering what geologist
Maclaren has been asked to report about at the
Associated. The opinion which he is alleged to have
formed when he overhauled the field three years ago
was that the mines on the east or Associated side of
the “Mile” had little hope of getting much below
the deepest point at which they were then being
worked, owing to a layer of bad rock coming in from
the east. Whether that be so or not, no further
sinking has since then been done in the mine or in
the Kalgurli next to it ; and Kalgoorlie is wondering
whether the present examination doesn’t indicate a
probable change of policy in that respect.
Great Fingall (W.A.) has got its inter-
nal shaft timbered down to No. 18 level, and every-
thing is expected to be in readiness to haul ore
from the deep levels by the end of October. It is
a good thing for the Fingall that it had controllers
with some heart. If they had got scared and stopped
development when the mine’s first source of ore
supply gave out at the No. 13 level, another tomb-
stone would have been called for in the West. In-
stead, sinking was continued from the 13th to the
16th levels bv means of a deep winze, and then down
to No. 18 level. Some fine lengths of ore ranging
from 40s. upwards have since been opened up en
route, and what is practically a new mine is about
to be worked below No. 15 level. It is nothing like
the one which starred years ago, but it is worth
having, all the same. #
In view of favorable developments Oroya
Links (W.A.) has decided to deepen Croesus Prop,
shaft and equip it with more powerful gear. The
cost is estimated at £7OOO, and the new plant will
be capable of hauling from a depth of 2500 ft. ; but
apart from the 150 ft. of sinking which it is now
proposed to do, further prodding will only be done
after winzes have justified the work.
Sand Queen (W.A.) is making extensive
alterations and additions to its plant. To get more
air it has installed a new 11-drill compressor, and
to further increase the output it has got hold of an
additional 10 head of stamps. Developments are said
to be all right. The same is also said to apply to
the adjoining Gladstone, where a lot of gold is await-
ing extraction. As urged before, these two mines
should be amalgamated and worked as one.
Lady Miller (W.A.) is again wanting
help. Some time ago fresh caoitai was raised in
London for the ostensible purpose of doing certain
development work and installing additional plant,
but after debts had been liquidated and office exes.,
fees, etc., paid, there wasn’t much left. Now it is
either a case of getting more funds or shutting down,
and shutting down would be cheapest in the long run.
Associated Northern (W.A.) has driven
nearlv 150 ft. east at the No. 5 level of its Ora
Banda show without finding the rich shoot which
made things so pleasant at the No. 4 level. The
£ll values showed up at 125 ft. in from the era. s-
cut, and the stone ranged from £ 12 to £ 23 until the
190 ft. mark was reached. Then the shoot butted into the
main Gimlet South lode; the rich ferruginous
material of the former vanished and the poor,
clayey lode stuff of the latter took its Pja-cc. •
far values have ranged from £2 16s. to £4 6s.
the No. 5 level, with a tendency to get much
poorer as the drive advances towards where the
downward continuation of the shoot ought to he.
Nil Desperandum, at Burtville (W.A.),
is reported to have struck something resembling a
jeweller’s shop. Seven tons of ore at surface ar
estimated to contain 3000 oz. of gold, and t e
manager and part owner reckons that another nau-
ton of bullion can be dug out without any trouble.
The show has been worked for about 12 years and
has viplded several thousand ounces, though nothing
like this bonanza was ever struck before.
Geologist Rands. Inspector Jackson and
Warden Linedale have been appointed to inquire into
the deep-sinking scheme at Charters Towers. It is
figured that it will cost £25 per foot to sink a circu-
lar shaft 18ft. in diameter. With equipment the
total cost would be about £120.000, which would
make it the most expensive hole in Queensland, it
not in Australia. The Government is asked to
advance £60.000, and if it agrees there will he
an amalgamation of interests between Mills United
and the Brilliant-Deeps. The idea is to form a
new co. of 600,000 10s. shares. Mills United's No.
15 level is at 2543 ft. vertical. So far nothing
has been found below that.
Australian Phosphates, Ltd., has got all
the money it needs to develop the caves of bat
guano at Mount Etna, near Rockhampton (Q.).
European and American orchardists are eager buyers
ot bat guano—Americans particularly—because of its
h)gh nitrogen value. The European deposits are
becoming short: Peru—the greatest supplier—has
suspended the export of all fertilisers for two years;
ami Mexico is too busy shooting itself to think of
an y .9);her job. The Australian co. has, therefore, big
possibilities, as its deposits run into many tens of
thousands of tons. All the “mining” is pickwork,
and the works for drying and grading the guano
a J e very inexpensive. The average value of the
stuff (retail) is estimated at £6 10s. per ton.
Hampden-Cloncurry gives an example of
what the metallurgist can do nowadays in the way
or saving fractional quantities of gold and silver.
East month 6126 tons were smelted for 568 tons
copper, 1550 z. gold and 49880 z. silver —a shade
over idwt. gold and less than loz. silver. The cop-
per average was 9 27 p.c., worth 30 times more than
the 4s. representing the combined value of gold and
silver.
August, Gympie (Q.) crushed
9339 tons for £9351, of which Scottish Gympie sup-
plied 7300 tons for £6017. This co.’s large cyanide
plant and tube mill should soon be in commission.
The other mines have been doing very poorly. No. 1
North Columbia and Smithfield crushed 874 tons for
£1396, No. 2 S. Great Eastern 670 tons for £374,
and No. 2 N. Columbia 164 tons for £278. The only
bright return was 80 tons from No. 1 N. Smithfield,
which gave £548. The old South Glanmire and
Monkland is trying Nicholl’s lease, at which a good
deal of re-timbering and cleaning-out have been
done. Prospecting at 480 ft. has been attended with
fair results. The Inglewood reef is to be opened out,
and as it is in favorable slate country, there is a
chance. Calls seem very probable, as the old lease
is yielding little.
Great Fitzroy (Q.) is now getting 84
p.c. of the copper and 78 p.c. of the gold from its
low-grade silicious milling ore. Reserves are esti-
mated at 475,435 tons ; and, assuming it to average
2.62 p.c., there are 10,459 tons of recoverable copper.
But reserves of pyritic ore for smelting run to only
31,611 tons, and unless some new discoveries are
made these will be used up in less than 18 months.
The Laloki mine (Papua) may supply plenty of
pyritic ore, but transport will make it so costly that
there won’t be much left for shareholders in the over-
weighted concern.
* * * *
Williams United, Berringa (Vic.), wants
the ground next-door south, as its own shoots of gold
make in that direction. Some people who have had
since January to work, or get cash to work, the
block object to the forfeiture. Warden Goldsmith
finds that there has been non-compliance with the
labor conditions, and refers the matter to the Minis-
ter for Mines. The puzzle is whether a co. with
cash ought to have the ground, or whether the co-
operative holders of to-day ought to retain posses-
sion. Seeing that the Williams United has a body
to be kicked, that it has proved gold, and that by
its persistent and hard toil it has made the com-
pany-monger avid in respect to the lease, it seems
entitled to first catch Billson’s eye. If it has that
luck, the Minister ought to compel enforcement of
the lahor covenants on the new ground, and forbid
amalgamation.
George Buchanan waved away the £lOO
offered him by happy shareholders of the Ajax Cen-
tral, Davlesford, which he fathers. It is reward
enough that he has shoved the Central to the top of
the list of dividend-payers at Daylesford. The mine
appears to have a chance of a fair run of decent dis-
bursements now that the extra 10 heads have been
started ; but it is just as well to recollect the manner
in which North Nug., Ajax and Nuggetty crumbled up
once they were called upon to pay big dividends.
Central Ajax never was much till the 551 ft. level on
the western lode upset the idea that the shoot fol-
lowed at 475 ft. from the Ajax had petered out.
Workings from the shaft at 641 ft. have already
proved a shoot of 210 ft. in this western lode, and at
551 ft. the shoot is 380 ft., with a lot of good stuff
showing. The eastern lode has decent patches, but
values are very erratic. Last half-year saw 60060 z.
won from 6120 tons, but it doesn’t follow that that
average will be maintained when bigger stopes have
to be rushed ahead.
Central Cathcart (Vic.) hasn’t been
ambling along very vigorously, and the stable an-
nounces that a fresh jockey is up. This is D. H.
Browne. Why he gets into the saddle only insiders
know, for Roberts has managed the claim very well.
Browne has tossed about alluvial mines since he was
a boy at Creswick, and at one time served under
8., M. and Co. when that firm was losing money on
deep lead mines at Rutherglen and Moolort. He
brings along a nice skill in workmanship and a good
character. But he can’t put gold into the gutter,
and that is what the lead to the south-east wants,
judging by the wobblesome market of late. *
G. D. Meudell, of Melbourne, still cries
“Oil oil, oil!” and mostly cries in the wilderness.
Backed bv the Australian Oil Wells Co. he has lust
issued a pamphlet with the cock-sure title, Petro-
leum Exists in Australia.” It ought to. Beeby
Thompson’s book on “Petroleum Mining’ is quoted:
“The frequency with which petroleum fields are
associated with coal, and the common occurrence
of lignites in the oil-bearing series of the world,
are instructive sources of speculation. Now, Aus-
tralia, and especially Victoria, “contains the biggest
brown-coal or lignite deposits in the world ; and
though that doesn’t prove petroleum it is a hint
worth taking. The only way to find out whether
the oil is here is to bore, and bore again A while
ago the little co., in whose interests Meudell is bat-
tling, employed T. J. Whaley, an American oil
engineer, to report on an option in the Warrnambool
CVic.) district. He found a score of indications
that are favorable; beyond that, of course, he
couldn’t go, except to say that boring with proper
plant should be conducted between Anglesea and
Airey’s Inlet, and also on the coast near Warrnam-
bool. “I believe,” he said, “there is a belt of oil-
bearing countrv stretching from Eyres Peninsula
tS A ) through Kangaroo Island, the Coorong,
Mount Gambier. the Western District of Victoria,
to King and Flinders Islands, and thence through
Tasmania.” It is a large order, and many will
scoff. Many also scoffed 75 years ago when great
goldfields were mentioned ; and many who scoffed
remained to prey—also to scoff the profits.
* * *
“Moresby” : Tbe Cook Government is mak-
ing a hash of that department which controls petro-
leum prospecting in Papua. Dr. Arthur M ade, whom
it has appointed at £2OOO a year to take charge,
has apparently had little experience in foreign parts
where there are oilfields, and a great deal in Eng-
land, which never produced a barrel of petroleum.
A Minister who didn’t think England can produce
the best of everything would naturally send to some
United States field for a man with the latest know-
ledge of oil-well drilling ; but some Australian Gov-
ernments make such a fetich of England that they’d
send to Piccadilly for a cocoanut expert if they were
entering the copra trade.
The Kampong Kamunting, the newest Aus-
tral-Malayan tin co., expects to place a contract this
week for its two dredges—to be built in Australia,
under the eye of J. S. Henry, who designed the very
successful Tongkah Compound machine.
Australian dredging cos. in the Philip-
pines promise well. The Gaumus Co. is getting
£BOOO worth of gold a month from wash worth from
2s. to 2s. 6d. a yard. The Philippines Dredging Co. has
1000 acres, and is working one small dredge on 2s.
a yard ground. Three other dredges are building to
work gravel worth Is. a yard. Excellent prospecting
work has been done by the Umeari Co., which has
1600 acres of the Umeari River lower than and ad-
joining a Manila co. which is getting 4s. a yard.
The Umeari Co.’s first dredge to handle 10,000
yards in 120 hours is nearly ready, and should start
in December. Boring over the area gives an average
of Is. 6d. a yard.
* * * *
Speaking in a general way, the farmer is
the most imposed-upon male person in the com-
munity. As a rule, he isn’t much of a business
man. That is to say, he isn’t a keen trader —except
perhaps where a horse is concerned. He lives re-
mote from the big centres where most business is
done—from the big centres where even most of his
own business is done. Consequently he is in the
hands of agents; and agents’ time has to be paid
for, and as much time is consumed in travelling
over a wool or wheat district, much payment has
to be made. Also, the farmer gets only one crop a
year, as a rule: when he sells his wheat, or his
oats, or his wool, there is little revenue to come in
for another 12 months. So he frequently wants
long credit; and for that he often has to pay through
the nose, too, because, as said just now, he lives
remote from business centres, and isn’t much of a
business man, anyway. In many instances where a
harvest fails, he is in the debt of some storekeeper
for the past few months’ supplies. The failure
doesn’t always worry the storekeeper. He knows
then that he has that producer in his hands for the
next 12 months at least. During that time he can
pay him for the farm sidelines just about whatever
he pleases; for the farmer’s stores he can charge
just about whatever he pleases. The trader who
works on these lines often dies rich; the farmer
generally lives poor.
Co-operation would cure most of these ills; but
co-operation among farmers isn’t always easy to bring
about. Still, the farmer meets other farmers oftener
than he used to; more trains, better roads, fre-
quent conferences —all these things help to that
end. And as they meet oftener, and find that they
have so many requirements in common, co-operation
grows, and, given good management, must continue
to grow. There is a group of, say, 80 wheat
farmers within a district, served from the one rail-
way station. They will want a few hundred corn-
sacks each. They know that, if they buy individu-
ally, and have their little lots sent up by train
individually, they will have to pay one way and
another from Id. to 2d. more per bag than if they
pooled their orders, bought a wholesale lot, and got
the benefit of the lower freight that comes from
shifting goods in quantities. Now and again the
agent of the private firm which is threatened with
loss of business will throw a sprat to catch a mack-
erel. Rather than lose the profits which he hopes
to make for the next 20 years, he is prepared to
make one loss if he can kill the competitor or the
threatened competitor. It would pay him quite well
to give cornsacks away for a year rather than lose
trade for all time. A cornsack costs (say) 7d. Even
if he sold it at 4d., and thus knocked a competitor
out, he would probably lose only ; and, compe-
tition being got rid of, he could rely on making
that much the next year ; and after that year all his
profit would be to the good. This is the snag that
the co-operator is always running against: he finds
men willing to admit that co-operation is and must
be a good thing, but yet prepared to go
to the non-co-operative concern as soon as it throws
out one of its baits. The true co-operator won’t
take baits. He will stick to his co-operative
trading right through, certain that, in the long
run, it must put money into his pocket.
Mention was made just now of cornsacks. These
and woolpacks were the things that really led to the
birth of what is now the greatest farmers’ co-opera-
tive business in Australasia —the New Zealand
Farmers’ Co-operative Association of Canterbury.
At any rate, it was seen that a co-operative society
could, for a start, save the members much money in
buying these things wholesale. A move was made
by Mr. Charles Ensor, who at the time (1881) was
president of the Amberley Farmers’ Club. At one
meeting he suggested co-operation in a small way,
and within a few weeks, various Farmers’ Clubs
having been meantime communicated with, a public
meeting was held at Christchurch. The thing was
decided on, and a prospectus was soon issued
and the co. was formed. How well it
has accomplished its purpose may be judged
from the fact that in the past 12 months its
turnover was £3,272,330, as against £15,234 in its
first year, £331,770 in its 10th year, and £791,860
in its 20th. In the first 21 years the turnover grew
£837,440; in the past 11 years it grew a further
£2,434,890. It has now over nine times more mem-
bers than it started with, and the bonus it pays back
to members on their purchases has been more per cent,
during the past two years that it ever was. and in
sterling value the rebate is of course infinitely
greater. The society has done all that it set out to
do and a great deal more. It does better than buy
wholesale for its members nowadays. It makes for
them. The members thus save not only merchants’
profits; they save manufacturers’ profits as well.
They are their own merchants and their own manu-
facturers. They make no less than 500 tons of
binder twine a year at their own splendid works.
They manufacture the “Co-op” brand of artificial
manure which is known all over Maoriland. They
have their own bacon factory and freezing works.
They have their own large department stores. They also
handle agricultural machinery in a very large way ;
and there are few lines in which the farmers are
better able to co-operatively help themselves than in
this. The Australian farmer buys a machine for
which he is asked to pay perhaps £6O. He knows
there isn’t £3O of labor and material in it. The
other £3O represents various profits and agents’ ex-
penses. The members of this N.Z. Farmers’ Co-op.
of Canterbury can save a great deal of that £3O. In
the first place, they usually get the goods for a shade
less than they could buy them anywhere else; and
then they get, besides their dividend (on ordinary
shares it was 8i p.c. for the past year), a 5 per cent,
bonus. On a £5O purchase this means that they get,
besides their dividend, £2 10s. —which is their
share of the profit that the merchant would have
made if the buyer wasn’t also his own merchant.
It is the same with things the farmer has to sell.
In the first place, those goods are consigned to people
who handle them knowing that they are the property
of people who own the business. Smith sends his
goods to Jones for sale. Jones will no doubt, as a
rule, do his best for Smith, though there are times
when he thinks a great deal more of doing his best
for Jones. But if Jones knew that Smith was a
shareholder in the business which he (Jones) was
working for, the chances are that Smith would feel
a bit more certain of getting the best possible ser-
vice. And apart from that there is the matter of
commissions. It costs an auctioneer something to
earn his commission; he has to nay rent, and his
clerk has to get a salary, and his hammer has to be
renewed once in a lifetime or so. The balance is
profit. This great Maoriland co-operative society
at present reckons that 30 per cent, of most of the
commissions is profit; and this 30 per cent, accord-
ingly goes back to the people whose stuff was sold.
Besides being their own merchant and their own
manufacturer in various lines, they are thus their
own commission salesman.
Naturally, offering all these advantages, the co.’s
business has grown tremendously. The authorised
share capital is now a raina million ; capital paid
£313,000. Some co-operators, who haven’t been sc
well schooled in the principles of co-operation and
perhaps haven’t realised its benefits so fully, starve
their concerns. These Canterbury farmers have not
only fed their own business with capital on which
they get a very excellent return directly, but they
have permitted that business to be enormously streng-
thened by the accumulation of profits. After all the
dividends and bonuses (amounting to no less than
£37,565) had been paid in 1912, there remained
•£105,115 of undivided profit in the business, all of
it used in further advancing the interests of the
members. This great strength, the result of well-
directed co-operation, moreover enables the associa-
tion to borrow money on the most favorable terms,
and members have the benefit of that, too. Thus at
31st July of this year the association was in a posi-
tion to make advances of no less than £351,011, on
terms which the average individual farmer could not
possibly secure if he had not an agency of this sort
behind him.
(Continued on page 87.)


AFTER OTHERS FAILED.
“I use Chamberlain’s Pain Balm for a sore throat,
and have always found one rubbing to cure it,” writes
Mr. T. Dennis, Hihitaki (N.Z.). “It worked won-
ders when I sprained my ankle, giving me immediate
relief from pain after other liniments had failed. I
also recommend Chamberlain’s Pain Balm for rheu-
matism, it having relieved me many times.”*
Charles
Hei dsiecks
Vintage 1906
CMfIPMf
JIE PLUS ULTRA
T
1
SKIN DISEASES,
Including Eczema, Pimples, Rashes, Boils, Chilblains,
Ringworm, Shingles, Ulcers, Old Sores, have their
remedy in Rexona, the Rapid Healer. Sold in trian-
gular pots at Is. 6d. and 3s. Obtainable everywhere.*
WORLD
RENOWNED
BRAND
STUHR.
STUHR’S
Genuine Caviare,
Anchovies in Brine
(SALTED SARD ELS).
In Tins and Glasses.
Sold by all High-class Provision Dealers.
C. F. STUHR & CO., HAMBURG.
English Export Agent:
W. LOVEQROVE, LONDON, E.C.
VERY OLD COGNAC.
OTARD B RANDY
1875, 1860, 1848, 1820 VINTAGES.
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, September 29, 1913.
My Dear Arini, —
Lace frocks of the old window-curtain
pattern are decorating some of the wire
stands in our most expensive shops. _ Huge
Crawley designs, like the tracks of leviathan
snails, straggle all over the very open-work
robes. They are so open that a stout under-
skirt will have to be paired with them, if
the wearers are to be less visible than the
lady who used to be put up to auction in
Babylon—which was a very open-work city
for the lady who was put up to auction.
These ventilation robes follow the bad old
habit of unfastening at the back. They
show small pleated frills of decorative ham-
bone design round the place where the
panier used to be and is not. The habit of
fastening at the back helps, no doubt, to
keen Society together, for no woman could
fasten at the back and yet lead the hermit’s
life. Still there are disadvantages.
Some of the new spring hats are so terri-
fying that they ought to be locked up after
dark. The long, lean stalk now totters up
in front, or maintains its old haughty flag-
pole attitude at the back of the crown. The
single rose which bumps about the atmo-
sphere at the end of this wired millinery
prop is rather larger than it was a week or
two ago. It used to be the size of a small
saucer. I suppose the recent rains have
freshened it up, for the October-hatted rose
threatens to grow to the circumference of a
dinner-plate or a circus.
Ospreys raged with great height and
flufliness during the 1912 Quinlan opera
season. No man who sat behind one of
them is likely to forget its exasperating
effect on his efforts to see a few inches
ahead of his nose. The Musical Associa-
tion met together to smoke the pipe of peace
the other evening. President Arundel
Orchard, in a spirit of meek inquiry, alluded
to these feathered barriers as “things,” and
wanted to know if they ought to form part
of woman’s top gear at the opera. A few
able-bodied ushers might be stationed at the
D.C. and R.S. entrances to collect these
trophies before enraged citizens tear
them out and trample them under-
foot in the gloom of a Wagner twi-
light. Some miscreant once proposed
that, at a given signal, every man in some
big assembly should light a match and set
fire to the feather in front of him, but the
scheme strikes me as dangerous.
The low-necked day blouses of the present
season are getting an inch or two below
what the Religious Editor calls a fair
thing. If they get any lower, the ladies
who wear them will have to take to shawls
to keep off the comments of the boy in the
street.
Our best suburbs are divided into fierce
rival camps over the Government House
row. The Forbes-Talbot partisans are
prepared to crack the skulls of the Strick-
land supporters. The latter will meet in
single combat any person (under 10ft.
high) who casts a slur on the bluermouldy
antiquity of the Strickland family tree,
which struck its roots in Westmoreland
soil away back in the days when the Gorm
and Bluetooth Danes were running the
affairs of England. The haughty Forbes-
Talbot party hurls another heraldic brick
at this crisis. Amidst the din of bnttle.
the Stricklandites, our early nobility and the
departing Helps and their barrackers are
mixed up in a small suburban uproar, which
boils down to this: “He ain’t no
gent —so there!” Opposition—“ She’s no
lidy—now there —an’ I sed so from the
fust!”
G.-G. Denman and his lady are going to
have a shake-down at Admiralty House dur-
ing their week-end in this town. They’re
roofless in the Momma State till the tower-
ing humpy at Canberra gets its back fence
up, and its bath and latchkey in working
order. Unless something sudden happens to
keep the Gee-Gee here over Monday, the
rich exiles hurry back to Melbourne that
evening. In the afternoon they’ll stroll
across the Randwick lawn.
Official etiquette threatens to swallow up
any spare seconds Admiral Patey might
otherwise have had to form impressions of
Sydney Harbor on October 4. The ground
space of Garden Island will be packed with
every brand of sword and cocked hat the
city can supply, and if the city proper is
suffering from a superfluous scarcity of
cocked hat any cocked hat that may be
lying around loose at Parramatta or Cook’s
River will be looked up. The Citizen Sojer
is to swell the throng. Shrill blasts
from buglers of every degree will burst
upon the morning breeze to welcome the
Commonwealth steelmongery as it rolls up
the bay. Calls and re-calls will buzz through
a busy hour or two. The new Admiral
drops his pastebord on. the old Admiral,
and shakes the G.-G. by the hand en route.
Then he, the Just Arrived mariner, rushes
off to say a few more official how-d’you-do’s
before he swallows a sandwich and jumps
into his shore clothes for the Bookies’ party
at Randwick. The Federal meal in the
Town Hall that evening is to lay the dust
of travel with kegs of champagne.
A.D.C. Barttelot and his slender lady are
sheltering at Admiralty House as I gum up
this missive.
Governor Strickland, shadowed by A.D.O.
Campbell, dined at the Oxford-Cambridge
festive meal the other night. As an ex-pre-
sident of the Cambridge Union, and a former
star graduate of that ancient ’Varsity who
was a legal tripos man (or something
equally tremendous at law —a tripos sounds
like a three-legged pot, and is a dark mys-
tery to the uninitiated) in his whiskerless
youth, our sub-Governor carries a solid
cargo of learning in his top-storey.
Commander Robbins, R.N., and his wife
will be the new married couple on Governor
Strickland’s staff. She is a well-dowered
daughter of Christopher Evening News
Bennett, and is addicted to the domestic
virtues. There is a heap of them, but she
is addicted to the whole lot. The Robbins
pair are not likely to be too big for their
boots, and Peace may unfold its draggled
feathers in the squally atmosphere of the
Gentleman Helps’ pantry.
The Chief Justice Cullens have marked
the afternoon of October 10 for their garden
party to vhe new bluejackets. They say so
in gilt lettering on a large piece of white
pasteboard. A polite curtsey to Admiral
Patey is included in their invitation.
Local Society will have to be up with the
morning milk on October 4 if it hopes to
welcome the incoming Fleet. Naval person-
ages attached to H.M.A.S. Penguin and
the naval yard at Garden Island will be at
home at 10 a.m. on that historic morn.
A Primrose Tea was perpetrated the
other afternoon to welcome back Mrs.
Vincent McCauley. There was no Beacons-
field atmosphere about the proceedings.
A good deal of tiny satin slipper
was present, filled with the yellow blos-
soms which are quite erroneously connected
with that defunct statesman’s horticultural
tastes. Beaconsfield, as a matter of fact,
cared more for velveteen waistcoats and a
special brand of hair-oil than he did for
any form of vegetation so meek and trodden
underfoot as English primroses. The Prim-
rose League was an accident. Queen
Victoria, who always meant her departed
Albert when she spoke of “He” or “Him,”
sent a wreath of these blossoms to Beacons-
field’s coffin. She wrote on the card, “His
favorite flowers,” etc. The British public,
having inadvertently forgotten Albert for
an hour or two, jumped to the conclusion
that some mysterious link connected con-
servative politics and primroses. The truth
leaked out later, but this didn’t prevent
Sir H. D. Wolff sounding Randolph Churchill
as to the ripeness of the hour for starting
the Primrose League. Miss Una Ackman
was one of the prime movers in the recent
tea, which caused a small flutter till it was
noised abroad that a Primrose Tea had no
connection with the inventor of these
strange, stagey heroes, Alroy and Jabaster
and Lothair. Mrs. Jim McGowen, Mrs.
Holman and Mrs. Trefle, who were present,
were convincing proofs to this non-Tory
effect.
Mrs. Tom Hughes gave a dinner the other
evening in the fibro-cement bungalow of the
now closed Girls’ Exhibition.
The Medical Society’s evening party in
the handsome ’Varsity Medical School
stunned about 1200 persons with the most
amazing snacks of information. Fierce
gusts of wind howled round the building
while Uni. dons tramped off to lecture on
their pet germs. Visitors were respectfully
silent while the heart of a recently-slaught-
ered tortoise beat with the steady
pulse of a pendulum, in mid-air. The
tortoise was not interested in this perform-
ance, and the little heart was fed with
blood from a tiny tube. Prof. Welsh ex-
plained the favorite breakfast-table diet of
some pet bacteria, while timid guests won-
dered whether a Medical School tame germ
was so catching as a wild Woolloomooloo or
Potts Point microbe. Prof. Andy Stuart,
M.D., one of the first pillars of the Medical
School, and the early original battler to
house the present fine collection of bones,
bacteria and missing links in an imposing
edifice, was a proud man the nicht. As
foster-parent of all the bacilli on the pre-
mises, and Dean of the Faculty of
Medicine, he was one of the hosts at this
learned entertainment, with the veteran
Chancellor MacLaurin and Medico Clive
Thompson as chief witnesses. Governor
Strickland trod warily amongst the exhibits.
Two-thirds of the local Pill and Porous
Plaster profession peered into the anatomy
department before amputating light refresh-
ments with a fork.
That wonderful old pioneer, Mrs. Sophie
Corrie, has succumbed, in Queensland, to
the well-known spring malady—a bad cold.
She didn’t die of sunstroke or apoplexy in
that land where so many people say only
colored labor is possible, but of cold, just as
if she had been a Scott expedition. She
was born in Sydney about 80 years ago,
and knew nothing of the bush and its wiles
and snakes and horrors till she took up a
selection in the Colo Yale district of
N.S.W. Mrs. Corrie, a widow with young
children to support, faced difficulties that
the average townsman would consider im-
possible barriers between him and any
Promised Land. In addition to remarkable
business capacity, this sturdy Australian
woman had the optimism that bounces up,
after a hard knock, like an india-rubber ball.
Her faith in the possibilities of her native
land and the products of its soil would be a
bank account to some of the half-hearted
Little Australians who squirm if they meet
a dry patch in the local rajnfall. The evo-
lution of Ti-Tree, the Corrie homestead,
from tent to small slab house, and from
that to the handsome modern cottage which
has now passed into other hands, is one of
the romances of our bush story.
Mrs. Corrie snatched a competence from
the soil. At a time of life when other old
ladies are dozing in an armchair, this active
daughter (or grandmother) of the Common-
wealth was gadding round the world. A
few months ago she meditated a trip to
Japan, and was side-stepping Sydney’s ap-
palling traffic with the agility of a school-
girl. One of the late Mrs. Corrie’s personal
texts was “Never waste anything.” Out
of this rule of her life came the preserving
pan, with its everlasting simmer of bubbling
fruit. “Why waste a fire all day in the
country? Why not cook something more
than the inevitable meals?” Hence the
famous “Art of Bottling and Preserving
Fruit,” which made her an invincible winner
of first prizes at N.S.W. Agricultural Shows.
Finally she was asked to withdraw from
competitive sections and give others a
chance. It must have been a very fiendish
form of cold that caught this alert old lady
unawares, and carried her off before she had
time to defend herself.
Purser Delmar Cavendish, of the Mool-
tan, is reported or alleged to have plighted
his troth to a damsel from one of New
England’s extensive sheep walks. The
spruce Cavendish is a brother of Mrs.
Winsloe Hall, now of Adelaide Conserva-
torium, but better known as the dashing
Georgina Delmar, formerly of the Carl Rosa
Opera Co.
Major and Mrs. Ivoe have recently torn
themselves away from this water-front after
a scamper round our best-looking scenery.
The lady used to be a Miss French, of
this settlement, before she married a King’s
Own Borderer, of the Scottish persuasion.
(King’s Own Borderers are a one-sided lot,
and mostly come from the Scottish side.)
At present they are stationed in India.
Owing to the Westralian uproar over
Cingalese Surgeon Asserapaa, of the
Orontes, things look black and blue for the
Waddy team —if it goes to Colombo and
whirls its bat amid the beautiful green
scenery where every prospect pleases and
only man is vile. The Ceylon press is claw-
ing the air re the excited welcome that was
hurled at the Cingalese gentleman by one
or two infuriated Westralians. Asserapaa
is a popular person in his native isle. He
took a degree at Cambridge, but is other-
wise firmly rooted to his tropic stand, where
he has big financial interests. He filled an
emergency billet as surgeon of the Orontes,
partly to oblige the Orient Co., which hap-
pened to be in a fix, and partly to oblige
himself, with a holiday trip to this conti-
nent. A White Australia policy doesn’t in-
clude heaving bricks at an inoffensive medi-
cal-tourist who had no notion of staying
here a minute after the Orontes’ gangway
was pulled up. The Ceylon Bureau in
Sydney is likely to close with an angry
snap at the end of this year as a fierce Amen
to the Asserapaa affair.
Skipper Baynham, who married a Maori-
land girl, is one of the youngest mariners
in command of an Orient craft. He is at
the wheel of the Orvieto, which whisked the
Governor-General’s lady off to Melbourne.
Baynham is a powerful pusher, and when
he runs behind the big ship and shoves, the
pace that the big ship makes is something
tremendous.
Miss Eula Johnstone, one of the innumer-
able Annandale clan, was married to Den-
tist Ernest Hawkins the other evening. This
event was assisted by the presence of six
bridesmaids and the same number of
grooms. Mr. Frank Paton gave the bride
away. She is a daughter of the late E. C.
Johnstone, and has a silver-lining to
her purse. The wedding breakfast took
place on Farmers’ top floor about the time
quiet folks are munching the hind leg of a
lobster for supper. The Arthur Adams and
a large helping of the Johnstone-Hawkins’
clan were present at the party.
Sir Walter IJely-Hutchinson, who, so the
cable says, has died, aged 64, was Private
Secretary to Sir Hercules Robinson when
the latter was Governor of N. S. Wales.
He had himself been in the vice-regal busi-
ness for many years, in S’Africa and else-
where. His brother, the Earl of Donough-
more, visited Australia in 1874, and
married a daughter of Colonel Stephens, of
Tasmania.
Maoriland’s Robert McNab is still peer-
ing into musty tomes of early history in
this city. The tireless McNab is alleged to
have soaked his brains in the Mitchell Lib
rary till he fairly reeks with information
Incidentally, his journey to England in
search of more dusty information is off for
the present. He will return to M.L. next
month.
Soltano, the winner of the Spring Stakes
at Rosehill the other afternoon, is the pro-
perty of a well-known Maoriland man-—T
11. Lowry, who hails from the Hawke’s Bav
district. 3
Dr. Archie Aspinall, a son of the Scots’
College Principal, was recently clamped in
the bonds of matrimony and orange blos-
soms to Miss Mary Woods, of Killara. The
groom, by the way, is a member of a clever
Scotchbyterian family, and brother to the
Dr. Jessie Aspinall who was (I fancy) one
of the first women doctors to get a hospital
appointment in this city. Best man Dr
Leslie Dunlop was aided and abetted hv
groomsmen R. and E. Aspinall. Brides
maidens Dr. Jessie of that ilk, and Marion
and Flora Woods attended to the swish of
the bride’s train, and saw that the veil
didn’t sag in its filmy float over the white
satin shimmer that covered the bridal
shoulders.
The attractive smart frock builder
Essie Davis, is engaged to a male artist in
feminine clothes, one Page, of the David
Jones firm. The name of Page is at present
associated with that vague Pactolus or E]
Dorado called the Page Billions—l think it
is billions, and that the streets of the New
Jerusalem are paved therewith. But there
are others. Miss Davis is going to retire
from her dressmaking business. In the New
Year she’ll settle down to home-making, and
will wrestle with the newest vacuum
cleaners.
Congratulations are falling in on Percy
Maddrell, the last arrival in the old law
firm of Norton, Smith and Co. The lady
in the case is Ouida Beament, a good-
looking Darling Pointer. She has only re-
cently returned from seeing Europe with
her mother, and Europe, which hasn’t had
much luck of late, by reason of the Balkans
and other troubles, said it hoped she would
call again.
The leading taverns in this town are fill-
ing up for race week, in spite of the preva-
lence of vaccinated arms and legs. The
Wentworth Hostel shelters a few Maori-
landers in its huge menagerie. Mr. and
Mrs. Fenwick, the Malvins, and Mr. and
Mrs. Blundell, from the Dominion, are at
present housed at the Sign of Mrs. Maclur-
can.
lima Elliot, a Chatsw T ood girl with a
Voice, is giving a farewell warble in the
Concordia Hall on October 9. She is a pupil
of Mrs. Garcia School Christian. Mrs.
Clara Butt has advised the young soprano
to finish her studies in Germany. lima will
trek or hoof-by-sea for the Fatherland early
in 1914.
The Sydney Phil, has captured Singer
Mary Conly for its great vocal outbreak on
October 2. This will make the Town Hall
rafters tremble with the “Hiawatha” score,
in the presence of Sydney’s Mayor and
Mayoress. Musical aldermen and their
legal ladies are billed . to be amongst
those present, and plain citizens can be
relied on to keep the encore fiend in the
same old place.
The late J. C. Williamson left the Actors’
Association the proceeds from a share in
his racing stud. This, and a further bequest
which includes his theatrical library and
some pictures and bric-l-brac, will be useful
to the benevolent side of this mummers'
help society. Three hundred pounds was
mentioned by George Titheradge at the
Actors’ Day Matinde, as about the sum the
horseflesh would amount to in hard cash.
Madge Collins, the youthful Wyalong
soprano, sang to a crowded audience in the
Concordia Hall on Saturday night. She is
rising 17 or thereabouts, and promises to
soar like a skylark when her baby wings get
stronger.
The Sydney Repertory Society’s first ven-
ture of a six nights’ season (in the. Reper-
tory Theatre, Grosvenor-street), begins this
week with Shaw’s “The Devil’s Disciple.
Enthusiasts who have been gloating over
rehearsals fling a bouquet at the Judith of
Aggie Thorn (Mrs. Deery). The reappear-
ance of' this young actress on the boards
as Judith gives her a wide range of emo-
tions to play with. She runs up and down
the gamut from tears to a ripple of laughter.
Costumes are designed by Souter. This
artist is also responsible for the. sumptuous
scheme of interior decorations, in which a
gorgeous blue is like a daring splash ot
tropic sea.
Artist Phillips Fox is booked to show his
attractive wares early in October. -tne
R.A. Society’s rooms will house the show.
For the moment. I can’t think of anything
else besides the Fleet, the races,, a few bans,
a score of dinners (of exclusive decode
design), about 1000 official calls, a hundred
or more tea parties, a banquet or two, an
a garden party, as likely to happen in th
congested week.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


TINKER
TAILOR
SOLDIER
SAILOR
RICH MAN
POOR MAN
BEGGAR
THIEF
M
bwhm
m
w
mwmrnmmm
-<
S.
'-t-j
1
• V V-r.
i, :. <•» Y‘ '
V
t. T&\
m*
*.>•*3? V.K
M
# * \LS'V??y
& A.; \.W.
f 2
1
i&j
I WO,
"y If
1
i: v;i
; yws
■ v*s
1
42
U
CDS
.■&#».* S ■■■ .'•*•.*:./
SV
1C
'V
■
wJsMm
b
.
*
A)
/
mfm
M
~v
«««•
a? in
a
\M$
mmloz
£
■ ■ ./■:■
:'Af. - /V-j&fis
Ml
i
*te ; ? s 'S2saC^K
M/w*<z> *emwta
y
/ /
J i
r %
mxm
f
'b i
\ 45*.j ! V /skSSI
'-> *- 'CI- 1 J, S',■ : /
r
/
- : ' ■-
«SJ?
r
■!-:
, 111
"fCfjf&i*
■^^rVr^
mm
J
yy
gfe
f
<-■•
K
sc?
~
i
>5
H;
,n o
<#
L
(I
O €«- /O . r*S >
Cobra, Boot PolisK.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Holds his begging-
Bowl for you.
If you have
A coin to spare,
Help poor Chunder
And the bear.
By the city’s
Eastern gate
Sit the pair
In lowly state.
Give him something!
It’s worth while
Just to get
A “COBRA” smile.


SHIRTS OF EXCELLENCE.
The Popular Tunic Style
At Farmer’s.
The man who once wears FARMER’S TUNIC
SHIRTS wears them always—they give such satis-
faction. The materials are excellent, the make, fit
and style beyond reproach, and the price most
moderate.
In White and Butcher Blue and Pink Stripes.
In White Grounds with neat Black Stripes.
Jn White Grounds with Fancy Colored Stripes.
Price, 5/6 each ; 3 for 16/=
Carriage Paid Throughout Australia.
Farmer’s —Sydney
Pitt, MarKet &. George Streets.
AN EPILEPTIC FIT.
A famous London physician, who for years
made a study of this disease, has, after a number of
experiments, found a prescription which affords re-
lief in almost a marvellous manner. This has been
put on the market by Mr. I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceu-
tical Chemist, of Belfast, under the name of
“Ozerine,” and the number of unsolicited testimonials
received speak well for its efficiency as a remedy
against this appalling disease. Your chemist can
easily get it for you.*
REST ASSURED
there are no better
quality—or better
wearing Tyres in
the World—than...
DUNLOP
TYRES
You can always rely
on a big mileage and
continual satisfaction
by using these reliable
Tyres, which can be
obtained from any
Cycle Agent
DON'T ACCEPT an IMITATION
—have THE BEST, they bear this
TRADE |
MARK
V V«\\, DUNLOP RUBBER CO
ALL STATES
AND N-Z.
0?
m
m
X
TYRES
ij-w-
CVJNLO/;
imi
0
BY
•MILES
THE
BEST
That's T
What
Users say
of-
TYRES
Obtainable
all
s, Garages .
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, September 29, 1913.
My Dear Yarrie, —
H.M.A.S. Melbourne scored a social suc-
cess on Friday night. The captain and
officers were arranging details in leisurely
fashion, when a curt duty call flashed along
—“Clear Melbourne port.” The hospitable
sailors were staggered for the moment; but
Captain Silver, aided and abetted by his
fellow-strategists, started to re-arrange the
function for the night before sailing.
Sailor-messengers scattered through the
city and suburbs with special invitations,
the ship’s telephone buzzed incessantly, and
working parties clambered about and rigged
an awning in record time. They put a few
more on top of that to keep the falling ram
out, and presently the cruiser looked like a
sick kitten. The dance was timed to com-
mence at nine o’clock. Motors jolted over
the rough planks of the Town Pier and
splashed through rain-pools to the gangway
—a warmly-lighted scarlet tunnel. Baby
fir trees sprouted about the deck, alongside
6-inch guns and other ominous hardware.
Grim, grey war fixtures w y ere softly covered
over with cushions and became pretty
lounges. Mrs. Silver wore a misty blue silk
with fine lace. Her jewels consisted of a neck-
let of woven seed pearls—an antique example
of exquisite workmanship. She shed smiles
all round, and the pretty girls trooping
aboard hugged themselves with delight at
the friendly aspect of the hostess and the
cosy appearance of the ship. For’ard the
cruiser was brilliantly lit; but in the waist
the lights were dim. The dancers whirled
in a dazzling way from the lights • to the
shadows and back again. Dressing-rooms
were situated below decks, and there was
much alarm manifested at the steepness of
the companion steps. Young Hogan, who
is an assistant-paymaster aboard, hurried
up to town for powder and other feminine
ammunition. Like a man, he got the most
expensive sort, and everyone dabbed her
nose contentedly with blonde or bru-
nette brand, according to. taste. Captain
Silver’s own cabin was utilised as a supper
lounge. It was full of cretonne covers and
comfortable seats. His great-grandfather’s
Trafalgar cutlass hung on the wall with a
precious Trafalgar medal above it. Flag-
Lieutenant Blomfield has the next-best
cabin. The company noted that it had a
real bed instead of the usual narrow bunk.
This officer stayed aboard for weeks during
the completion of the ship ; consequently,
he knows pretty well every rivet. He is the
son of a military British person now in India.
Young Grey-Smith (son of the “Willy”
Grey-Smiths, of Toorak) is a handsome
member of the ship’s company. He danced
enthusiastically with all his old girl friends
(I mean his early young girl friends).
Mrs. Leslie Stuart chaperoned a couple of
young men cousins. Cousin Jeff Stuart, of
the Naval Depot, did not need a pilot, as he
leads the younger dancing set. Mrs. Stuart’s
dress was spotted like a leopard’s skin, and
flesh-pink in its foundation. Maie Ryan
wore a large diamond buckle and some
scanty black silk swathings. Audrey Chirn-
side was in grey-blue fixings cut into sec-
tions. Her handsome mother, Mrs. George
of the clan, was impressive in filmy (it is
25,000 to one that the compositor will try
to make this read “filthy”) clothes and
huge pearls. The Forrest dame and Mrs.
Agar Wynne chatted in a corner. One
Toorak girl was distinguished by her part-
ners as “the one with the ostrich. feather
rising aft in her hair.” Mrs. Nyulasy’s
pretty hair was crowned with a wreath of
roses. Miss Crisp, a Hobart girl with a
pretty blue crSpe frock and a wonderful
complexion, received congratulations shoul-
der to shoulder with her fiance —Hogan,
one of the destroyer officers. He is a brother
of the Melbourne’s young paymaster. The
destroyer lay snugly alongside the cruiser,
like a faithful hound or death adder. Sup-
per, which was of the substantial variety,
began at midnight, and it was almost steam-
ing time in the morning before the last
motor tooted off the wet pier and left the
ship’s company free to attend to business.
The giant ship Ceramic held a party, at
Port Melbourne, on Friday afternoon, when
a few hundred guests of varying weights
kept the long gangway trembling. I believe
this sort of thing goes on in every Austra-
lian port on the maiden voyage of a big
new ship. The food was eaten to the music
of a string band, and a lot of guests, looked
blank when they were told that it was
possible to go all the way to England for a
mere £2O. Then they fell on the refresh-
ments, while the stewards and passengers
stood off and wondered audibly at their
appetites. Mrs. Norton Grimwade man-
aged to strike a loud dress note. She was
in petunia purple, or bright grape-color,
from feathers to shoe-tips. One of the voy-
agers by the big ship was clever little Flor-
ence Gleeson. She has had more rest than she
requires in her theatre-loving native land,
where the imported mummer arrives by the
shipload, and she is off to try her luck
elsewhere.
What the invitation cards pompously
called “A Conversazione of the Honorary
Justices’ Association of Victoria” turned out
to be a simple collection of country Jaypees
down for the Show. They all had their
wives along, and, after a concert, the supper
in the upper room of the Town Hall was the
most sociable affair that apartment has seen.
Gaud Mayor Hennessy was ill and unable to
attend, but Councillor Henry Weedon took
the head of the board and Gaud Mayored
(or Mode) for him.
The usual heavy Show luncheon hap-
pened on Tuesday, just when the cow had
come up for judgment. The men off the
land, all of them wearing sunburnt necks,
sound teeth and hearty appetites, crowded
into the chairs set before 50 long tables in
the council room. Denman, Jofyi Madden,
two lots of Gentlemen Helps, and a large
selection of travelling Britons occupied a
cross table. Behind them hung a blinding
line of top hats. Everywhere else the soft
felt tile of comfort was piled in net racks
hung above the tables. When huge turkeys
and rounds of beef had disappeared, and
dead marines stood to attention, President
McCracken uprooted the cauliflower of
speech and aimed the tomato of flattery in
every direction. When his turn came, G.-G.
Denman, with smileless face, told several
stories that made a tremendous hit with
the assembled countrymen. One bucolic
joke in particular broke up the house —all
except the sprinkling of women. They
gazed ahead in stony silence while the joy-
ous farmers howled again and thumped the
table. A black feather indicated where the
Madden dame was located, and a mass of
purple ostrich plumes waved above the chair
of the Emmott lady. A few pink roses
moved spasmodically above Mrs. Hennessy.
The Barttelot dame scored a French fowl
effect with fluffy black feathers circling her
hat, and another lot round her neck. Aud-
rey Chirnside prodded father into speech
when his bulls and sheep were honorably
mentioned. Audrey herself had some horses
up for show that were just beaten in the
judging. (I may as well say that I am not
reflecting on the judges ; it was the horses’
own fault.) Louise Pinschof dodged about
in short white riding coat and undisguised
breeches. The Clarke girls, who were also
on hand, sat back; they were not due to
perform until Friday. Everybody hurried
away to the jumping oval immediately lunch
was over. Chamberlain Nevill showed the
Emmott dame round, while John Madden,
entrenched behind his moustache, explained
the scenery to Mrs. Sherwell. Things are
not all they seem in Show jumping. The
“log” fence really consists of old, rusty
sewer pipes heaped together. There was a
time when real logs were used; but they
were too clumsy to move, or else the price
of timber has gone up, I am not sure which.
The stone wall, which used to be honest
blue metal, is now a painted tin fraud, which
rattles hollowly when you throw stones at
it. (I throw stones at it constantly.) A
large batch of country girls, including Pear-
sons, Chirnsides, Taylors and Reids, made a
day of it and lunched happily together at
the back of the grandstand.
One of the Miller dames is earnestly sec-
retarying a fete which is being organised to
swell the funds of the Ladies’ Work Asso-
ciation. Mrs. William Smith, of Ravens-
wood, Alma-road, St. Kilda, is lending her
house and grounds for the affair, which hap-
pens on Saturday, October 4. In addition
to the usual bazaar stunts, there will be an
exhibition of Russian dances by the Hyams’
pupils.
Melbourne’s Art Gallery and Museum is
to have an “18th century room” added to it
at the instance of John Connell. Mr. Con-
nell, a local licensed vendor of wines,
spirits and malt liquors, and a good
patron of art, had a bright little wife
who shared his enthusiasm for “collecting.”
When she died, a few months ago, the wid-
ower gave a fine lot of pictures and other
valuables to the National Gallery in Swan-
ston-street, and now he has supplemented
his £lO,OOO gift with the offer of a
collection of antique furnishings, conditional
on the trustees fixing up a room suitable to
them. Hardy Wilson, in Sydney, has offered
his services for designing the room, and the
Connell antiques will get there in due
course.
If it wasn’t aware of it before, Ballarat
now knows that it isn’t absolutely necessary
for a woman to be a fierce and intolerable
frump before she is able to speak brightly
on a public platform. The undermined city
has lately been packed full with A.W.N.L.
women —those uppish political females
whose club colors are royal purple and gold.
For the really important meetings—the ones
where the most awful hat secrets of the
craft were exhumed —none save members
w r ere allowed inside the doors. (I haven’t
heard of anyone trying to burgle her way
in ; still it wouldn’t have been a very diffi-
cult job to tackle.) However, garden
parties, motor drives and other frivols were
sandwiched in with the closed door solemni-
ties, and Ballarat was given numerous
chances of admiring the visitors’ “perfectly
sweet” clothes. The proceedings wound up
with a big Public meetina, at which Cook,
Irvine, McKay and the young Ballarat
politician Baird all made remarks of a more
or less valuable character. It is on record
that some women travelled for two whole
days to get to the show, and considered it a
privilege. Mrs. Hughes acted the part of
president, and the handsome Moss dame, who
was a Wilson girl, played vice-presi-
dent in a series of talking clothes that sim-
ply silenced all hands. Mrs. Waugh, pre-
sident of the N.S.W. wing, arrived with a
motor-load of luggage and appeared each
day with chiffon and feather arguments
that brooked no contradiction. (If only the
wretched Labor party could be crushed with
feathers !) The hurried British folk descended
on the great parrot rally for one brief hour
and were screamed at in the most hospitable
manner.
When the freezing works below the Glaci-
arium devote all their chill to keeping the
sheep’s shoulder cold, the Society skidders
are thrown out into a spring world full of
green verdure and sunshine. This winter,
owing to the Governor-General’s steady
patronage, the gliding impetus was tre-
mendous, and the Best People simply
couldn’t stop dead, as usual. So, one Satur-
day afternoon, the evicted ice-rinkers went
in a body to roller-skate at the South Yarra
Rink, and found it an excellent substitute.
The Frank Madden girls, on castors for the
first time, escaped without a single bump,
and the Mount Schank Clarkes sped round
gracefully and confided that they had been
taking morning rehearsals. Even the Ice
Rink Reids were glad to roll round. Eileen
Williams and a Kent Hughes daughter tried
ice figures with great success, and the
Robbs and Ducketts joined in eagerly. The
Coopers, just back from foreign travel, re-
marked in a superior tone that roller-skat-
ing was being performed now by all the
people who are rich enough to have time to
kill and money enough to bury the deceased.
There is now in use a new species of
roller skate that balances in just the same
way as the ice cutter, and an expert can do
the whole length of the rink in one sweep-
ing stride.
The much-travelled William Smith matron
and daughters are booked for more travel in
the so-called “East,” while the newly-
acquired White Lodge (once the home of the
McMeikan-Fitzgeralds) is undergoing altera-
tions and embellishments.
The William Petersen widow, who lately
lavished another £lOO on the Lost Dogs’
Home, is lending her park lands, on the
Balaclava-road, for a fete in aid of the mis-
laid hounds.
John Madden, in his capacity of Lieuten-
ant-Governor, has at last decided the im-
portant question of taking another Gentle-
man Help. The blue-trimmed coat has been
offered to and gratefully accepted by Hubey
Jacobs, C.B. (Companion of the Block).
H. V. McKay played host out at his busy
Sunshine place last Wednesday, when a
special trainload of Jaypees and their
womenfolk went out to see how harrows and
harvesters are made, and to absorb refresh-
ments. (It is difficult to escape refreshments
just now.)
This is sent to me by parties who are still
at large:—
There was a feast of speeches for those who like
that sort of thing at the farewell banquet given by
the Commonwealth Government to the British Parlia-
mentary visitors in Queen’s Hall (Federal Parliament
House). But there was very light provender and a
scanty supply of liquid refreshment to brace the
250 guests for the ordeal. Some day a sensible cook
—not a Prime Minister, but an artisan in prime
joints—will call a cold chop by its right Australian
name. A menu in a foreign language holds the pro-
mise to the eye, but breaks it to the palate. There
were oysters in the shell with “au naturel” tacked
on to the end of them, clear soup branded “Im-
periale,” a scrap of whiting alluded to as “S. Ravi-
gotte,” a stew in flake-pastry labelled “Vol-au-Vent
Financiere,” quail “au Creme,” asparagus, a mixture
that seemed to deserve its appellation, “Timbale of
fruit Parisienne,” bloater paste on dried bread called
“Croutes au Cavair,” and an icecream put down, as
usual, as “glace.” It’s a long list to look at, but
there wasn’t much more than the list to look at ex-
cepting a broad expanse of flat plate. Corned beef
and cabbage would have been welcomed. There was
no fillemupagen when the speeches—two and a half
hours of them —commenced. Some old stagers saved
a drop and spread it over six toasts; but when the
seventh hove in sight they tipped an empty glass
and went home distressingly sober.
Clara Butt has been airing her high-
powered voice and some fine gowns in Mel-
bourne. Her rightful first night glory was
dimmed by a grand opera first night and a
Gaud Mayoral rally for the benefit of the
interminable British politicians. How-
ever, on Monday of last week, Clara was
compensated by a gratifying rally of the
Best Fed, who were reinforced by many
song-loving Show folk. The tall singer
sailed on to the platform, missing the top of
the archway by the depth of a flat pancake,
and stood before the crimson velvet cur-
tains in a dress which was mostly cloth-of-
gold. The bodice of the gown was con-
structed of flesh-colored tulle, and in front
of this glowed a monster red rose. A bar-
baric scarf swathed round her hips was
embroidered with black and gold roses.
Everything else was a blaze of gold. The
country people gasped and said “Well,
now!” On Thursday night Clara put on
a cool white chiffon with a pea-green sash,
and burbled baby songs. Then she and
husband Kennerley stood shoulder to shoul-
der and carolled “Keys of Heaven” ; and,
later, Clara finished her conquest by boom-
ing out “Home, Sweet Home” to an audi-
ence that was simply aching for Home, after
a long, hard day on the cinder paths of
Flemington Show Grounds.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
The Saint Cecelia Choir gave its second concert at
the Victoria Hall on Thursday of last week. Among
those who braved the brick of disapproval and the
tomato of contempt, and came through the ordeal
scathless, were Mr. W. A. Robyns, Miss Chinner,
Mrs. Amesbury, Miss Packham and Miss Hilton.
The Duncan dance at “Strathspey” Mitcham was
(like every other dance in the world’s history) one
of the successes of the season. Flowers, food, fizz
and frivolity—an alliterative compendium of the
things that go to make up a cheery hop—were all
unimpeachable. Some day, dear one, I hope to bring
off a record scoop by writing to you of a ball at
which, though there was nothing to drink, the ser-
vants were all hopelessly blithered, while the band
struck half-way through the evening and the dis-
tracted guests fleeing to the cloak-room found that
their garments had been burgled to the last cloak
and the ultimate gibus hat. But that thrilling and
spectacular time is (alas!) not yet.
Mrs. Matheson and her daughters leave the White
Cliffs of Old England (not to mention the brown
mud of Old London) behind them in a dav or
from the time of writing. Miss Mary Cheadle will
accompany them. Other returned globe-trotters a™
the Vincents, who trotted only as far as N. S Wales
Aliss Marian llart, who sings and composes 'like the
perfect bird she is, is having her latest outpouring
a “Song of a Gondolier,” published by Paline an,i
00., Sydney. b u
Some of our more incorrigibly “cultured” women
folk met at Woodlands, the Richard Smith home
down by Glenelg, on Monday to hear Miss Violet de
Mole lecture on “Current Topics in Trance.” i n
eluded in one of the loftiest-browned audiences that
Australia has seen for quite a while were Mrs. Swift
Mrs. W. Pope, Mrs. Duncan-Hughes, Mrs. Walter
Bagot, the Downer dame, Miss Edith Young, Mrs R
Colley, Mrs. Percival Stow. Miss May Duncan anri
Mrs. J. R. Baker.
Two hundred and odd of our very best and bright-
est, socially speaking, hit the somewhat ruined and
dusty North Adelaide trail on Wednesday, with the
avowed object of obtaining sustenance from the
Bonython lady and Mrs. Angas Parsons. The Bonv-
thons bought the house on Montefiore Hill built by
H. R. Dixon, and it’s one of the best sites in N'ortii
Adelaide, with a fine view over the Torrens and the
city, to the hills. The weather was horrible, and so
most of the guests stayed indoors, their eyes grati-
fied by masses of daffodils, primroses and stocks
their ears soothed by the music of Miss Violet Payne
and a string band. Among those present were Every-
body—l mean Everybody who is Anybody.
The Solomon-Senior case, which has been dragging
along for months, ended with a sudden crash in the
form of six months' hard for the hyphened hero of
the proceedings. Sangfroid was, perhaps, the most
noticeable characteristic of this remarkable Hebrew.
He invariably spoke of odd thousands as mere
“pour-boires” which only an imbecile would discuss
and keep check of.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.


' ;
tltjUm
wm
-
4n
'
.V-
-ip
■
m
Ilj - Mm
•-
w¥
if
J
uweyorsoFHtfteral Waters f
e
INC
SARTO is made from the best Jamaica Sarsaparilla Root with special flavorings, the recipe for
which is Held by Schweppes Ltd. exclusively. Sarto is a refreshing' beverag'e, and being'ablood
purifier has most excellent tonic properties. It is greatly improved by a slice of fresh lemon.
Head Office : 49 Pall Mall, London.
Agencies throughout
tiie World.
INJUNCTIONS AGAINST PASSING OFF.
Latest Case.—SCHWEPPES v. O’CONNOR.
In the Supreme Court, Queensland, before his Honor Mr. Justice Real and a jury of four.
(Bee Brisbane Couriers, August 27 to September IS, in which an Injunction was granted.)
During this case, which lasted 12 days, the following
evidence was given, showing the health-giving properties of Sarto and the amount of Sarsaparilla contained therein.
“Genra-e Alexander Bvrn member of the firm of Dixon and B.vrn. assayers and analysts, of Sydney, deposed that he had made analyses of a bottle of ‘Sarto’ and a bottle
v, oarsn ’ He found that ‘Sarto’ contained 11.47 per cent, of solids, .lON of similicia, and the balance consisted of water and a small quantity of alcohol. ‘Sarsa’ contained
11 15 of‘ solid® and 000 ner cent of similicia, and the balance consisted of water and a small quantity of alcohol. There was, therefore, eighteen times as much similicia in
‘Sarto’ as there was in ‘Sarsa.’ ' Similicia was the active principle of sarsaparilla; it was a medicinal tonic. There were other properties of sarsaparilla of medicinal
“There is a finer quality of sarsaparilla in
value, but the active principle was similicia.”
correct
Mr Fee/ ‘‘How does ‘Sarto’ compare with ‘Sarsa’ according to your analysisV’’—“There is a finer quality of sarsaparilla in ‘Sarto’ than there is in ‘Sarsa.’” “Is it
to’sav that some sarsanailla root may have no similicia at all?”-“Yes.” "What does the presence of .lON per cent, of similicia indicate to you?”— “That only the
best root has b'en useVl in the preparation.” “Is that a large or a small quantity for a drink of that kind?”—“A very fair amount”


HOW TO ENJOY GOOD MEALS AND
GOOD WINES WITHOUT SUFFERING
FROM STOMACH TROUBLE.
It is a well-known fact among physicians,
and even most people, that he who dines too
well and likes wines will sooner or Inter
become the victim of stomach acidity. In a
recent medical article an eminent physician
states that too much acid should never be
permitted in the stomach, because it irritates
the stomach walls, causing ulcers, and in
time developing cancerous growth. The
acidity is generally signalised by indigestion
after taking wines, thick sauces, fruits or
coffee, and the doctor believes that this is
the real reason for most stomach complaints.
In his own case, as well as among his
patients, he found that ordinary bisurated
magnesia quickly neutralised the acid and
made it disappear, thus enabling the diges-
tive organs to properly perform their natu-
ral functions.
Although this is such a simple and harm-
less remedy, the Medical Report tells of a
lady who had suffered for years from what
had been diagnosed as ulcer of the stomach,
and whom it completely cured in a few
weeks’ time. As bisurated magnesia is quite
inexpensive, and can be easily procured
from any good chemist, we publish this ex-
tract from the doctor’s account of his ex-
perience. for the benefit of readers who wish
to enjoy eating well without suffering had
after-effects.*
The gas stove is apparently somewhat antiquated.
As long ago as 183(i Mr. Sharp, of Southampton,
designed and sold these useful appliances. One cus-
tomer, after using one for months (to cook for 120
persons), testified in its favor. Strange to say, cer-
tain medical men attempted to discourage gas for
culinary purposes, but later three surgeons of Chel-
tenham jointlv stated that after carefully examining-
one of Sharp’s ovens, they “cordially approved of
it on scientific and economic grounds.” Phillips
Ormonde A- Co., patent attorneys, 17 Queen St.,
Melbourne.*
The simple
way
of making soda-water appeals to the lover of cleanliness.
You have no powders —no mixing—no dangerous and
awkward bottles.
You just fill up the syphon
from your ordinary supply,
insert the little steel bulb, and
turn a screw. The pure, de-
licious aerated water is made
in a moment, and a quart will
only cost you 2'Ad.
Ask your Storekeeper.
“C” Syphons,
0/0 each.
"B” Syphons,
4/- each.
ri
IT" '*7
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“J.E.T.” : How is this for homing instinct
in animals? In 1896 writer and two others bought
camels at Mount Lyndhurst station near Farina
(S.A.).’ Travelled them up the line to Warrina,
thence through the interior to Lake Wells (W.A.).
At that place two of them got away from us, and
they turned up again at Mount Lyndhurst—a dis-
tance of over 800 miles, as the fly crows, through
the driest country in Australia. Before reaching
Lake Wells we did 161 days without water, and
covered 330 miles, map measurement ; actual dis-
tance travelled, about 400 miles, because the map
turned dog on us. The map, in that kind of coun-
try, is alwajs a cow. However, that is a horse of
another color.
THE PROCRASTINATING STEAK.
DINER : “Bring me a steak, please. And you might send me a postcard every now and
then, while you're away, letting me know how it's getting on.”
Notice hoisted at the Maearthur (Vic.)
P.O.:—
FOOTBALL MATCH, MAC’ARTHUR v. MT. ECCLES.
All players are requested to be on the ground at
2.30 sharp, as we have to get back at 5 o’clock to
milk.— Blank, Hon. Sec.
Truly, the Cow is omnipotent when she interferes
with Australia’s sport.
“Vigilans”: Re Australia’s cool North
(B. 21/8/’18). Camped at the Katherine River
from May till July inclusive. I found the south-
east wind at night so cold that I slept under three
blankets, with a calico covering on top. We used
to stand over the fire from get-up till 10 o’clock
Jressed in sweaters or thick coats. When crossing
the Barkly tableland in June. I often saw ice on
the billy in the morning. During May, June, July
and August station hands scheme to get the nearest
place at the fire in the kitchen. Cool! Why, it is
absolutely cold on the northern platepu during four
months of the year, and there are only four hot
months. Well might the Railway Investigation
Committee enthuse over stock and soil in those parts.
No better horses or cattle are found anywhere in
Australia than on the Barkly, where the black soil
lies 20ft. deep on a limestone bed. With a lfiin.
to 20in. rainfall there is no doubt at all that maize
will thrive in that country. As to water, why, New-
castle Lake is at times 50 miles long and 20 miles
wide. The country along its eastern shore is
generally undulating, with richly-grassed slopes and
open plains of blue-black soil, capable of producing
all kinds of vegetation, tropical and otherwise. Then
on the Barkly tableland there is Sylvester Lake, 100
miles in circumference and 20ft. deep in the wet
season. But it is the atmosphere that charms you
most. I think the air of the northern plateau the
finest and purest in the whole world. Riding along
the track it is so delightful you draw it in and
hold on to it. Australians simply do not know
what a possession they have in their great northern
plateau.
* • * »
“X.P.D.”: When writhing snakes and
slimy crocodiles have been worked right out for their
horror contents, some of the storv-writers may find
material for milder shudders amongst the vegetables
of the tropics. A Queensland Government vet. has
just been up in the Cordalba district, back of
Bundaberg, investigating a disease that drives horses
blind. The vet. is inclined to blame a fungus that
grows on sugar-cane, but there is also a theory that
the “finger-cherry,” a wild fruit that grows in lots
of places north of Brisbane, is the cause. Somewhere
about 20 years ago, an epidemic of blindness—total,
but not permanent, so far as I recollect —struck
Cairns. Most, or all, of those who lost their sight
were children, who had eaten “finger-cherries,” or
some such wild fruit. The effect was not immediate,
but it was sudden when it did arrive—the youngster,
rushing out from a dark room into bright sunlight,
would suddenly cease to see at all. Amongst the
fine old trees along the Esplanade at Cairns there
used to be two or three which, after being under
suspicion for a good while, were finally condemned
to annihilation, on the evidence of Dr. Baxter Tyrie,
Government Medical Officer, for inflicting horrible
sores, with accompanying agony, on people who
merely brushed against the rough bark. Other vege-
tables of malicious tendencies are the grey-green
Gympie stinging-tree, which grows by dozens along
old timber-tracks in the Queensland scrubs, and the
green nettle. A mere nudge from one of these will
give a man a burning rash, with “sympathetic”
pains further up the arm or leg, followed by shivers
and nausea. If a horse blunders into one of these
horrors he goes fairly mad, and if there is a man
alive who has had a full dose of one, I doubt if you’ll
find him outside an asylum.
The giddy angora,is not altogether without
friends. A Bill has just been put through the S.A.
Parliament for the express purpose of preventing
poundkeepers shooting goats of the aristocratic
variety. The ordinary or garden sort may be blown
out of the world summarily if his owner does not
turn up to pay the fees ; but the angora must be
held for auction if he isn’t duly claimed.
“Logani Namo” : These be from the laws
of the Hannabada (Port Moresby) Papuans:—-
When two that are man and woman have a child
born to them, continence must be observed until
the child is six months old. If (he custom is broken
the child will turn yellow. If it is broken before
three months, the child will die.
If a woman dislikes her husband and leaves him
and goes to live with another man, the new man
must repay the husband what he paid for the woman.
If a wife runs away out of her husband’s house by
the front door she may come back by-and-bye;
but if she goes by the back door she may not return.
When widows remarry they must arrange with
the new man to recompense the late husband's rela-
tives. Otherwise, it shall be a matter for stone
clubs and other arguments.
When a man kills another, he may have the ap-
pointed lines tattooed on breast and buttocks, and
may adorn his head with the beak of a hornbill. and
wear plumes of the raggiana (red bird of paradise)
and white cockatoo. If he has killed only women
and children, he shall of right wear cassowary
feathers.
AD VALOREM.
1ST DOMAIN DOSSER : “Did yer get that job, Henery? ”
2ND DOMAIN DOSSER : “I wouldn't take it. I arst 'im wot he wos a-goin' ter give me,
an ’e said as much as I was worth. I told 'im to his face that wouldn’t no
fer me."
1ST DOMAIN DOSSER: “I shud think not, Henery. Did'e expect yer ter work for u tiffin!"
“Machete” : “Langani’s” par(B. 28/8/’l3)
anent the interrupted entry in the diary of the
Papuan digger who was murdered by his “shooting
boy,” calls up old memories. 1 knew poor Fred
May, the murdered man, well. He was a well-
educated German, and, like mqny other “square-
heads” who were to be found digging on the Gira
and Yodda fields, had been a seaman. Like most 01
the others, he took an English-sounding name.
What his- real label was I never knew. The “boy”
who shot him in his hut as he sat entering up his
carefully-kept “log” had been in his service for a
long time, and the cause of the trouble was the
eternal Jezebel. Some time before, May and a
mate applied, to the then Warden at Tawata, for
permission to woo and wed a brace of native dam-
sels. The law forbade that local ladies should live
with white men more than a certain distance from
their native homes, unless legally tied up by parson
or magistrate. The Warden, following the ordi-
nances, and having no particular lov£ for mis-
cegenation, turned the sighing swains down. They
promptly went south to Samarai, and there found
a L.M.S. missionary who was not ashamed to wed
them to a brace of Milne Bay beauties and charge
a fee for it. Armed with their marriage lines, the
honeymooning couples ran the gauntlet of the irate
AVarden and settled in the fastnesses of the foothills
of Mount Albert Edward. Now, May’s “cook boy”
came from the same Milne Bay village as his new
mistress. Evidently his seductions or the solitude
of a digger’s camp in Papua were too much for the
lady, for one short week after she had gone to keep
house for May, the Warden received this note: —
“Dear Mr. Warden, —My wife has cleared with the
cook-boy. Please send a policeman to catch them.”
The cop was quickly sent, and the lady was later
returned to her village, while the copper-colored
Tertium Quid continued to work out his time as per
agreement. Anxious to return to home and beauty
in the south, he had recourse to the expedient of
blowing his master’s head off; and that is why
Fred May never finished that entry in his diary.
* * * *
“Camp” : They don’t waste much time over
romance in the Cow country. Recently, at Koroit
(Vic.), I met a young fellow who had just got
married. His only grievance was that he had lost
a day over his courtship. He had come to the con-
clusion that a wife would be handy about the place,
so, one evening, he went over to Ryan’s, determined
to make a choice of one of the old man’s four
daughters. Sitting on the cowyard fence he care-
fully took stock of the teat-pulling. It didn’t take
him long to make up his mind: one of the girls
was milking three cows to any of her sisters’ two.
“But I fooled the thing tin,” he explained, “for
when the girls came in to tea, all dressed up, blowed
if I could tell which was mine! So I had to come
again the next evenin’ to pick her out. I made no
bloomer that trip. I grabbed her as soon as the last
cow was out of the bail, and fixed it up straight
off.”
“Billy T.”: It was at “Limpy” Whalen's
funeral. There was a large following in the long
march-out. and an extensive gathering at the grave-
side ; furthermore the preliminaries at the home of
the late respected resident of Battery-street, Pitt-
field, had been liberal and festive, the widow having
provided varied refreshments for man and beast.
The Rev. Josiali Nott presided at the graveside, lie
turned up in billowing linen, and read the full ser-
vice; after which, in accordance with instructions,
he prayed a long and deliberate prayer for the bene-
fit of deceased, the consolation of the widow, and
the moral betterment of all within hearing. It was
at this point that Pip McGinnis gave expression to
his feelings for the edification of a late arrival.
“Blime,” he wailed, “ain’t it sickenin’? Here
was the bloomin’ buryin’ goin’ gay an’ all, every-
one content an’ happy, when along comes the bloke
in the white petticut an’ throws cold water over the
’ole funeral!”
* * * *
“Oran”: “Gouger’s” story of the hatter
(B. 4/9/’l3) reminds me that in an Australian Dic-
tionary, compiled by a Melbourne professor, a hatter
is stated to be “a solitary digger who carried all
his effects beneath his hat.” This derivation would
make the term applicable to any of the nomads who
hump Matilda. A friend whose knowledge of the
diggings goes back half a century claims that the
word originated like this: The solitary digger often
found it necessary to sink to a greater depth than that
from which he could conveniently throw up the dirt.
He therefore put down a hole of a certain diameter,
and then, reducing its dimensions, left a bank on
which he could deposit the earth temporarily. This
made the excavation look like a gigantic inverted
hat —hence the term “hatter.” It seems a thin
sort of theory. Another version is that the lone-
some man goes crazy, and is consequently as mad
as a hatter, though why the first hatter became
mad I cannot say. Certainly it was in his derange-
ment that he invented the belltopper, but whether
he was driven to the belltopper by drink, family
troubles, religion or drugs, or whether insanity was
hereditary in the family, and he was born, so to
speak, with a plug-hat in his mind, is another
affair. Incidentally, one of the greatest of Mexican
Presidents, Benito Juarez, was nicknamed “the
Hatter.” While the French occupied the country,
Don Benito got down once to the level of Robert
Bruce on the day when he saw the spider. IDs
congress was dispersed, his Ministry had run for
its life, and the army under his own command had
been so shamefully licked that he couldn’t find a
trace of it, though some of his generals still held
out in the South. In a cheap pub at Guaymas,
where he hadn’t even the money to pay his bill, the
fierce old President tried to get some new organisa-
tion together, but his enemies came upon him early,
and he had to quit. As he said afterwards: “I pat
my hat on my Government and left.” He was a
real hatter.
(Continued on paye 24.)
MISSED DAYS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
it is announced that a Victorian schoolgirl has
von the long-distance attendance championship by
attending school for 11 years without missing a
single day.— News item.
You never missed a single day—
Go on, my dear, do not desist,
Nor hark while one whose hair is gray,
Recounts the things that you have missed:
The dear delights or stolen days,
Whet) oft I’ve “wagged it” with the boys,
Wild rambles through the bushland ways,
That brought to me a thousand joys.
The barebacked rides on colts and calves,
The fishing lines, the “planted" gun,
The stolen fruit and fights for “halves,”
The merry laughter and the ti n ;
The home —when rose skies turned to pearl,
And pearl to deeper shade of gray—
O meritorious little girl,
You never missed a single day!
The stolen meetings by the creek,
The fights about “the Johnson gal,”
The boyish lips that brushed my cheek,
And hearts that knew me as a “pal” ;
The garments tossed within the bush,
The race across the smooth, wet sand,
The glorious breaker’s lifting rush—
Oh, vanished dreams of Lotus Land!
O little girl, good little girl,
Who “missed” not for eleven years,
Whose hair was never out of curl,
Nor “pinny” stained with ink and tiars,
Go on, inspired to greater schemes
Of clockwork regularity,
But leave to me my childhood’s dreams —
The boys—the bush —the open sea.
N.S.W.
EDITH M. HALLORAN.


t>' ' V \
v#-
*>«
&
S ' N
i
*»
V'h
> ill
w
KM
SK
K
\
C-4
-i
•SALOOP-
SMITHFIELD 5A LOOPT
OLD LON DO* CRT
Ri'rn
1820-
Still
Goj rtf'
Strong
Like the “ pick-me-up ” of olden time, that on the street was bought,
Its virtues are applauded by those who know “what’s what”
Every bottle bears this label:
“ Guaranteed same quality throughout the world/’
JOHN WALKER <3+ SONS, LTD., Scotch
Whisky Distillers. KILMARNOCK. SCOTLAND M SYDNEY **.4 MELtOURNS.


TfIRRfINTS
MELBOURNE.
The BIGGEST & BUSIEST MOTOR HOUSE in Australia.
Enormous Stock of Accessories always on hand.
Builders of the Best Motor Bodies.
MOST UP-TO-DATE REPAIR WORKS.
Tarrant motors pty. ltd.
Agents In Victoria for Fiat, F.N., Ford BSA
Mercedes Rover, Austro-Daimler, SunbeAm,'
Adler, Commer, Thornycroft,
104-112 Russell St., and 186-192 Exhibition St., Melbourne.
’Phones—3o3o, 2942, 6280, 5534, 3100.
A
I
KIDNEY DISEASE
and all allied complaints have their prompt and
effectual remedy in Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills, which
act in a wonderfully speedy manner. Give them a
trial. Price, Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. Obtainable every-
where.*
NABOB BOOT PASTE
Economical, Brilliant, Waterproof, Easily Applied.
Manufactured by LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney. [2
“C.0.A.” : Re place names in Victoria (B.
7/8/’l3) ——Lillydale in particular. I and others who
reside in that district were always curious to know
why Age and Argus spelt the name differently. After
chasing for light on the subject amongst the oldest
inhabitants, I think the Age is right, the Argus
wrong and the Herald astray as to the origin of
the word. Most of the stations along that line—
Mitcham, Tunstall, Ringwood, Croydon, Kilsyth,
Coldstream and Healesville—were named after vil-
lages in England, and I think it is safe to assume
that Lillydale is the same sort of silly importation.
The Cold Country hamlet is spelled Lillydale. The
late David Syme owned large tracts of land between
Lillydale and Healesville, and, being intimate with
the surroundings and history of the place, no doubt
set the Age on the right track by spelling the word
with the double-1.
IN THE TIMBER COUNTRY.
DROWSY D ICK: “’Ere y' are, 'Tummy. Con
genial employment at tarsi."
“N. or M.” : The average Australian news-
paper is such a poor sort of beast that it Always
thinks the other fellow must be doing something
ever so much better. Lately a yarn has been'travel-
ling around concerning a cute Yankee idea of light-
ing fire “smudges” between rows of Voung plants on
cold nights to protect them from the frost. No
doubt the method is a good one; it is so,, good, in
fact, that we have been employing it for-' years past
in Tasmania. The Speck, as everyone ought to know
by this time, humps itself in the middle, and when
you have climbed up one half you can toboggan down
the other. The uplying districts get their weather
with an edge on. Ellendale, a flourishing little
settlement on the track to the Ouse, and named, by
the way, after the wife of late Parliamentary lumi-
nary Nicholas Brown, is near enough to the top to
achieve a formidable chilliness at times, And, as the
district goes in for hops, growers keep a supply of
straw handy. On spring nights, when a gunshot
gives the pre-arranged warning of -a coming frost, the
farmers turn out and set lines' of the damp stuff
smouldering among the vines, With the result that
the smoke prevents Jack from, nipping the young
shoots. The wreaths of smoke help to make a weird
scene on a moonlit night.
“Coorey”: “Pick” <B. ‘2S/8/T3) takes*
exception to certain remarks of; mine concerning
timber inspection on the N.S.W.a North Coast. He
vvould like to know how those officers who pass
timber not according to specification fare when con-
fronted with the evidence of their misdeeds. Well,
Nelson wasn’t the only .one who has found use for a
blind eye, and probably among the “experts” there
are not a few whose practical experience was gained
from some city business college which coaches you
for any job from ’bus driving to aide-de-konking.
Or, maybe, there are some whose uncles were poli-
ticians. To prove that there is-careful inspection
Pjck mentions a certain overseas, consignment con-
cerning which there was some rapping of knuckles.
I know that particular cargo, and declare that the
condemning of a large proportion of it was not due
to the timber experts of S’Africa knowing stringy
bark from spotted gum, but because of its general
unsoundness and faultiness. The sleepers were
undersized, crooked, shaky, dozy—in short, the
Takings and scrapings of the bush. Now with re-
gard to the “faking” bf timber, let me say that I
have seen the soaking trick successfully accom-
plished during the last year. The order in question
was not insignificant, reaching nearly six figures in
feet super; and tallow-wood was specified. It was
put past the cat-eyed officers of the Government in
the proportion of less than 60 per cent, tallow-wood
and 40 per cent, doctored blackbutt. However, as
the sleeper-chopper and girder-squarer make chips
instead of sawdust, their easiest method is to “chuck
tea on it,” as they would say. Excluding 'hewn
timber I, assert that slaty gum is passed as grey
gum, and grey gum goes as ironbark, which means
that the supplier is paid a higher price than he
should receive. While I’m on the go, I’d like to
ask if anyone has noticed an unhealthy blight af-
fecting the ironbark, killing the tree in the first or
second season after attack. It is becoming quite
epidemic in parts of the North Coast.
“Silas Snell”: Jimmie Griffith had been
the most energetic worker of the Squareface Rail-
way League, a combination whose object was to
secure a line from Kettledrum to Squareface. Jimmie
in the non-railway days was considered a bit dippy
on the question of the necessity of a line to open
up this magnificent country and bring the local man
on the land into touch with his markets. Griffith
never talked of anything else, never thought of any-
thing else. He would go without meals merely to
urge the necessity of the line on any casual beat
who drifted into Squareface, and had been known to
waste two hours in Bryant’s bar enlarging upon
this important public matter to a dissolute swagman
who was drunk and unutterable. Jimmie Griffith
had formed innumerable deputations to address pub-
lic and semi-public personages on the burning ques-
tion of the branch line from Kettledrum to Squareface,
and on the occasion of the visit of the Duke of
York had led a contingent of Squareface patriots 14
miles across country to intercept the Royal High-
ness, who was abroad on a shooting excursion, and
solicit ducal support for the projected railroad.
Then the railway came gnawing its way out from
Kettledrum, and Jimmie Griffith supervised every
yard of it. When it was finished he gloried in it
as a treasure of his own begetting. He got drunk
at the opening banquet for the first time in his life,
and in a speech of terrific fervor congratulated
Squareface that at length all its troubles were
over, and golden-haired Prosperity had come to
stay. That year a peculiar disease got at the cows,
and killed 38 of Griffith’s. The seven it didn’t kill
■were slain by the public executioner for the com-
mon good. A bitter local drought followed, and the
fires got at Jimmie’s belongings, and ate up all his
fences, barns, stables and outhouses. The mort-
gagee foreclosed eight months later, and Jimmie
Griffith shifted into a tin humpy and took jobs when
he could get them. When he could not get work, he
sat on the post-and-rail fence, and waited for the
daily train. Jimmie always cheered the train as it
went by, but latterly his cheers were very feeble.
People said it didn’t seem that the line was likely
to be of much use to Griffith, after all; butiJimmie
insisted that it would eventually be of the
service to him. Nothing would convince Rim that
his great labor had been vain so far as he Was con-
cerned. On the third aninversary of the opening of
the line he was found lying on the sleepers near
Hobb’s Grossing. He was quit§ { V dead. Under a
stone they found a sugar-bag on which was written:
“If don’t seem that I’ll ever be able to make better
use of the line, after all. —J. Griffith.”
DURING THE DOWNPOUR.
“O Bill, wot a lovely drink we could ’ave now — if we'd only got the gin!"
“Nulla”: Re the varied uses of the kero-
sene or petrol tip out back. Herewith a recipe for
making a chest of. lngredients: Four kero-
sene or petrol eases. ijHglit ditto cans, and a few
nails. Place the cases on their sides, one on top
of the other, and nail together. Cut one side out of
the tins, and you have the‘drawers. The wire ring
on top of the cans serves as a handle. Some of the
Very Nicest People along the Murrumbidgee use
them.
“Machete”: With regard to that dingo
controversy, writer’s experience has been that, in
well-tended sheep country, Dingo is a solitary indi-
vidual, probably because the few dogs in the district
are well scattered, and have little opportunity for
successful organisation. In thick, rangy country,
carrying cattle, things are otherwise. Five minutes’
vocal exercises on the part of a dog will bring up
a dozen other ruffians like himself to help him with
any blackguardly scheme he may have in hand.
Again, sheep can be easily handled by a single dog;
calves, as a rule, cannot, since old Ma Cow is a
noble defender of hearth and home. Finally, here
is a question put a few days ago by one of the
members of a Queensland Commission to A. Donald-
son, Government Rabbit Inspector, who has been in
S.W. Queensland since 1881, and the answer
thereto:—
Mr. Hamilton : Are dogs and rabbits thick in the
Wilson country?
Witness : At the present time the dogs are worse
than I ever heard of them being before from Bollon
westward. I believe that is because there are so
many cattle there. When I was at Bollon two
months ago, I heard two packs howling at onee.
As far as the writer is concerned, that clinches it.
A Letter from the Middle of
Australia.
Dear Bulletin, — I write this from Mount
Stuart, in the heart of the continent. Mount
Stuart is in latitude 22, so it is north of
Rockhampton and about level with Mackay.
Incidentally, it is in the Northern Territory,
and is alongside the overland telegraph line
and close to the track that the railway will
take when it bisects Australia from Port
Augusta in the South to Port Darwin in the
North, unless some fools or scoundrels con-
trive to get the great work diverted. It is a
pleasant place, and the only reason why
peoole don’t swarm to it is the lack of
means of transit. When you come to think
over the matter, the probable reason why
Scotchmen didn’t rush the Garden of Eden
in all the glory of their kilts and all the
bright youth of Genesis was the absence of a
railway. Otherwise they would have hurried
there, and turned an honest bawbee by sell-
in® the Serpent to a menagerie. As I already
said, I write this from Mount Stuart, in the
centre oP Australia, up on the great, cool,
pleasant middle tableland, which so few T
Australians take the trouble to learn any-
th ipgr'gj) out. What some immemorial ass
vailed “the great central desert” is all around.
\\ hen that noted traveller and cartographer,
Mandeville, didn’t know anything about a
country he wrote on his map, “This lande is
alle fulle of deyiles,” and passed on. Or else
he stated that it was the land where people
wore their faces on the front of their stom-
achs, and passed on. It was by reason of
that passing-on habit that Australia ac-
quired its great central desert. As I hinted
already, I am 'at Mount Stuart, in the
middle of Australia. Of course, the man who
called it the central desert didn’t know. He
looked at the map, saw few names marked
in this great territory, guessed a desert, and
guessed wrong. Instead of barrenness, the
surroundings are picturesque. The Macdon-
nell Ranges encompass us—wild in parts,
but fine grazing country mostly. The town-
ship is practically the hub of the continent.
, Approximately, we are 1000 miles from Ade-
laide and boast two stores, an hotel, a
market garden, a police station, and a fort-
nightly mail service from the head of the
railway line at Oodnadatta, which is 350
miles away. The mails are brought to us
220 miles by coach and 130 miles on pack
camels. High up above sea level, we have a
cool climate. May, June and July are the
coldest months ; then black and white frosts
are frequent, and water exposed over night
is frozen in the morning. The summer is
sometimes pretty warm, but the heat is dry
and not depressing, like that of the Coast.
During last summer we had no weather so
hot as that of Adelaide. There is «
of any sort. We have no doctor; and g £lt r
mg from my own experience, extending k '
many years, we rarely need one <W g - over
of the healthiest homes in Australia
average rainfall is about 11 inches n he
water supply is obtained from soaka ™
of which there are six in the townshin W qil?’
deepest is 42 feet. The soil is prol r | le
our own garden we have navel orange
slipstone peach, figs, lemons, date pa!ms and
grape vines, all in bearing. The onnfL d
especially fine. The figs bear SSgtaK
well; we were eating fruit from these ir! y
from the middle of December “ the midai®
of April. The date-palm last season ft
AN EPIDEMIC.
COW COCKY: “An' if
you see a cow with
anything ther matter with her udder"
JAMES E. M. I. GRANT : “ Lumme, w’y they've
all got summat wrong wi ’ their rudders.
There ain’t one as can steer a straight
course.”
five big bunches. The grapes ripen in the
middle of December. We have also growing
Cape gooseberries and rhubarb, and have
experimented with wheat, maize, lucerne,
paspalum, rape and Hunter'River drought-
resisting grass. All grow well. We have
had pumpkins weighing 1141 b., and water-
melons of a tonnage of 40 to 50 lb. By pro-
tecting the plants during frosty weather, we
get tomatoes all the year round. Our main
industry is horse and cattle breeding; but
sheep-farmers would, I think, come along if
the railway did. The main difficulty is want
of water; but the catchments are better
than they are in the West Darling district
of N. S. Wales, and the rainfall is nearly as
good. There, hundreds of men have made
fortunes out of sheep. Here, when the direct
line is completed from Oodnadatta to Pine
Creek, thousands of men will live in afflu-
ence.—Yours, etc., G. H. Wilkinson.
♦
“Compulser,” on a millinery matter: —
The Scotchman next door to me is Hieland
Scawtch and doesn’t like Jaw Kuik. The trouble
is the kilts, which Kuik proposes to permit among
compulsory trainees who allege that they are Scots.
Now the kilt is no Scottish national dress, military
or civil, and never was. It is a Highland costume
pure and (more or less) simple, and about 75 per
cent, of Scots are Lowlanders, with no right to wear
it. Only in such savage and chilly fastnesses as the
Highlands could it have been originally adopted or
have survived so long.
In Cromwell's time endeavors were made hy the
Saxon to penetrate the Highlands, but without much
success; and not till 1746, after Prince Charlie’s re-
bellion, were the Highlands opened up and the kilt-
wearing habit knocked on the head by Act of Parli-
ament. Sword, pistol, claymore and kilts were alike
proscribed for local wear, and only for the purpose
of inducing recruiting for service abroad—
those being warlike times—were they allowed
for military wear. But on returning home
such regiments—or what was left of them —were
disbanded Not till 1792 was the kilt again permit-
ted for civil wear ; but by then the habit—except
as a bit of “swank”—was dead
As military frill none but Highland-recruited re-
giments ever yet wore the kilt in the British Army.
(Or perhaps “nominally Highland-recruited” would
be a better term, for there was a fearsome row even
at the beginning of things because an officer, driven
to desperation, filled up a gap with 18 Irishmen
whom he stole with violence out of a lodging-house
in Gallowgate, Glasgow, and shoved into the kilts
against their will. They were mostly named O'Don-
nell, and when they were put on the record as Mac-
Dougal they got mad and broke almost everything.)
The Highland Light Infantry (Macleod’s Highland-
ers), once a mountain regiment but now stationed
and recruited in the Lowlands, has been made to
discard the petticoats by the War Office, for exactly
the same reason that Australia ought to discard
them, or, rather, never ought to have adopted them.
The 2nd Black Watch, stationer! at Sydney in Mac-
quarie’s time or thereabouts, wore no skirts here,
and was not allowed to resume the ballet costume
Until 1881. While they drew Lowland recruits the
authorities said they had no title to the kilt. Now-
adays the Royal Scots, Cameronians, Scots Fusiliers,
King’s Own Scottish Borderers, Scots Guards, Cold-
stream Guards, as well as the aforementioned H.L.I.
—all of which are as Scottish as you like —wear no
kilts, and don’t want to. They have nothing in
common with the ancient Highlander of cattle-
stealing days. Out of all the national forces but
five regiments—Black Watch, Seaforth, Gordons,
Cameron Highlanders, and Argyll and Sutherland —
still wear the costume, and they do it only because
they are composed of all-Hielanders. For a time
Cohens and O’Reillys crept in, but to prevent a
farce which the Federal Government proposes to
perpetrate in Australia, the War Office now insists
on the real Mackay or no kilt.
Anyway, it takes a true-bred, oatmeal-reared Hie-
lander to wear a kilt without making my Scotch
friend angry. The solid, stern and wild appearance
which is part of the business will be hard to create
in the average callow trainee. Still Kuik wants
votes, and expects them from all electors whose
names begin with a Mac .or Fitz, and doubtless his
decision will get him a few. But, as nothing mat-
ters except votes, why not offer a Victoria Cross to
every trainee who has braved the terrors of three
camps ? And why doesn’t Holman snap up the hint
and provide a Master of Arts gown for every Miss
who has passed the compulsory standard at a State
school ?


THOPNES
wn isi\y
THE user of Thorne’s
Old High land
Malt Whisky is
loyal to his favorite bev-
erage. He knows that
the fine qualities which
have always pleased his
palate will be found
uniform in high excel-
lence in every bottle.
For 80 years Thorne’s
has withstood the stern
test of time. It is to-
day—as always—-
Incomparable
u:
gg
m
xx:
scs
m
: : c
SIS
Bit
crs
3S
?*
s&
«a
aa®
i
WW2
nKwpjfc-
m
SK9
BSS
1
2K
IE
ei
iS
m
as
as
hr.
hrr.vh
Eh;
3
risEac.
: z3tsiSr‘
.'...
K*S
r~:
Fa
■%cs&
i.v
• u r
?sa
*?
m
£S,
c~
•3:
.'irsnutViX
’«VK
r.™


V ■
Pliii
; ■■'•
\
\
\
. ;*
*. ■' •
.
does Odol
absolutely supersede
all other preparations for
cleansing the mouth and teeth?
Why
cause of its remarkable
power of suffusing the entire oral cavity with
thin but thoroughly effective antiseptic coating,
which maintains its protective influence for hours after
the mouth has been rinsed with it.
While tooth pastes and powders can,
at the best, be effective only during the
few moments while being used, Odol continues
to exert its antiseptic and refreshing powers,
gently but persistently, long after use.
It is this lasting effect that gives to daily
users of Odol the absolute assurance that their
mouths are permanently protected from the
processes of fermentation and decomposition
which, if not guarded against, will inevitably
destroy the teeth.
Business, Robbery, etc
“U.S.”: The U.S. Commissioner of Corporations
has just handed in a report on the International
Harvester Co. —a concern with large Australian in-
terests. The co. was founded in 1902, by five leading
firms, making 90 per cent, of the binders, 81 per
cent, of the mowers, and 67 per cent, of the rakes
produced in the States. The capital was £24,000,000.
The Commissioner says that in fixing this capital the
property was overvalued by nearly £3,600,000. In
1903-4 four cos. for making other machines and twine
were purchased, and, later, three more plants for
making manure-spreaders, waggons and ploughs.
Selling arrangements were also made with four other
cos. handling the same goods. In ; d
£2 600,000 of a surplus, although in 1910 the capi-
tal had been raised to £28,000,000, hv distributing
£4 000,000 of accumulated profits. The co. now
has 87 per cent, of the U.S. production of binders,
77 per cent, of mowers, 72 per cent, of rakes, 55
per cent, of manure spreaders, and 43 per cent, of
disc harrows. Its financial resources through the
houses of Morgan and Rockefeller, enable it to give
long credit to purchasers, rendering competition by
other firms somewhat difficult. The Commissioner
says, nevertheless, that competitors are not seriously
handicapped. He finds that new competition of
great significance has begun to app°ar, and iarg
makers are offering full lines of implements.
* * * *
Australian hardwoods have scored another victory,
but it is the sort of victory that may be worse than
a defeat. Indian engineers, finding a shortage of
local-grown timber suitable for sleepers, have been
trying iron. But, on some of the desert tracks
especially, the iron hasn’t answered. Even iron, it
appears, can’t be a sound sleeper in a climate that
runs up from severe frost-bite in winter to fever-
heat in summer, with salt winds and sand storms
thrown in. The metal under such conditions was
found to get “spongy” and “light.” Obviously a
light sleeper is no good when heavy engines are
rolling in over the bed-rail, and as the Australian
hardwood sleepers kept on sleeping under the most
slumber-disturbing circumstances, they have gradu-
ally been edging the iron out. It would be good
news if Australia was planting hardwood forests to
replace those that are being chopped down or burned ;
but as Australia is doing next to nothing in that
way the popularity of the goods in India merely
hastens the day when we shall be chasing to the ends
of the earth for material for our own sleepers.
* * * *
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: A half-acre of city land
for a horse! The deal was made 75 years ago in
Melbourne, and in one of its chief streets. The
half-acre was John Batman’s originally; the vendor
was Kdward William Umphelby; the buyer, Allan
MacDonald; the price paid, a mare in foal. The
bill of sale runs as follows: “Melbourne, Port Phil-
lip; 25th September, 183 S. Memorandum of agree-
ment between Kdward William Umphelby and Allan
MacDonald, both of the township of Melbourne. 1,
Edward William Umphelby, do hereby agree to
deliver over to the said Allan MacDonald all my
right, title and interest on the pieces and parcels of
land purchased by me at Mr. James Hill’s auction,
formerly or originally the property of Mr. John
Batman as herein described, the frontages of two
allotments situated in Bourke-street, for the consid-
eration of a mare in foal. And I do further bind
mv heirs and administrators to fulfil the same, and
upon the arrival of a commissioner in Melbourne, 1 do
further agree to give the said Allan MacDonald a
proper or legal conveyance and title in the said
parcels of land, and I further bind myself to pay all
the expenses for executing the said conveyance.
(Signed) E. W. Umphelby. Witness, John Tul-
loch ” On November 1, 1837, Batman bought two
half-acres here for £36 and £37 respectively. The
plan of the Umphelby sale shows the Bourke-street
frontage of the two half-acres, with 80ft. depth.
The block to-day is partly occupied by the fine ware-
house and showrooms of Buckley and Nunn. Ihe
site would probably be worth £lOOO per foot or
£132,000 for the lot. Both the mare and the foal
are long since dead.
* * * *
“Ricardo”: Though Denmark is the finest butter-
producing country in Europe there are within the
little kingdom of Hamlet no less than 22 margarine
factories, making over 03,000,000 pounds of butter
substitute annually. The whole of this is consumed
at home, export being prohibited bj r law on the
ground that it might swamp the butter market. Ihe
Dane last year ate an average of 301 b. per head of
the substitute. Germany is also a vast producer—
-440.000,000 pounds in 1912. In England and Ireland
in 1910 the consumption of margarine was 41b. to
151 b. of butter; but in 1912 the margarine
had sprung up to the ratio of 81b. to
141 b. Much of it is imported; nevertheless England
has what is alleged to be the largest and best-
equipped factorv of the world. It is at Southall, a
few miles from London, and employs 1000 people,
and has an output of 1000 tons of bogus grease per
week.
. * * *
The Savings Banks strike the same nuisance as
the other banks —the account that is left in credit
a few pence or a few shillings, and then forgotten
or abandoned. Month after month such accounts
are kept in the books, and in due time have
to be transferred to other books, and the cost runs
to far more than they are worth. Of 641,736 accounts
in the Victorian Savings Bank, no less than 152,157
are “dead” : they are all under £l, and how small
some of them are may be guessed from the fact that
the average of the lot is under 3s. The private
banks mostly get rid of the nuisance by charging
up ss. a half-year for keeping the account; but the
Savings Bank just hangs on and swears. On the
face of things, it looks as though the easiest way
out would be to post stamps to the owners of the
moribund waifs; but an officer who was put on to
explore that proposed track some time ago declared
that in nine cases out of 10 the owner couldn t
be traced without going to more expense than the
account was worth. #
“Harrison 0. ”: It was Lee’s absurd sense of
chivalry that caused him to become involved in an
altercation with the brawny individual who had
been making himself offensive for the last halt-hour.
The offensive one said something which moved the
Daughter of the Vine to inform him that he didn t
know how to treat a lady,” and, furthermore, he was
a beast. Lee supplemented Hebe s animadversions
with a few well-chosen remarks of his own, and the
brawny individual promptly volunteered to disfigure
his (Lee’s) countenance and otherwise ill-use him.
Lee being the sort of ass who, in his chivalrous
moments, disregards the facts that a man can give
him three stone and a couple of inches, at once re-
taliated with a generous offer to teach the objection-
able person manners; the first lesson to take place
immediately, under bash-as-bash-can rules. At this
stage I edged away to a position of splendid isolation,
as I wished the company—especially the man ot
brawn —clearly to understand that, though 1 hap-
pened to be drinking with Lee, I did not support his
views regarding the divine rights of barmaids, and
was not responsible for debts of honor contracted in
his name. The big man looked really dangerous
when he gulped down his beer and announced his in-
tention of (a) depositing Lee’s liver in the dustbox,
(b) scattering his brains along the tram track. Hut
iust here an undersized, shifty-eyed individual, who
had been treating himself to a Jimmy Woodser,
sallied up to the insulter of barmaidens and coun-
selled him not to be a blanky fool. “You know lm,
T serpose?” inquired the small man, jerking nis
thumb in the direction of Lee. “No, I don t, an l
don’t wanter,” was the reply. “Well, it s your tea-
party, matey, not mine,” said Shifty Eyes, with an
air of philosophic resignation, “but I thought 1 cl let
you know that this gent is th’ middle-weight champion
of South America.” The aggressive person was palpa-
bly dismayed. “I don’t mind a fair go, he muttered,
“but I’m not a blanky perfessional.” Lee took his
cue from the unknown interloper and acted up to his
description in great style; while I took up my posi-
tion near Lee, so that the whole world might know
that I was proud to have him for my friend, the
offensive person assured the company several times
that he had no desire to scrap with a professional,
and after warning him to be more circumspect in
the future, Lee magnanimously permitted him to
leave the bar. After acknowledging the gushing
thanks of Thviades, Lee spoke to his shifty-eyed
saviour. The latter said he didn’t mind if he did.
After he had failed to object for the seventh time he
apologised for not returning the invitation. When
a bloke is dowm on his luck an’ hasn t had food for _
Ten shillings was the sum disgorged by Lee. It is
seven weeks ago now since all this happened ; but last
week I chanced to be present when the incident was
duplicated. True, it was a different pubbery. and
the lady behind the bar was Msenades, instead ot
Thviades, and the aggressive ruffian was differen ,
and the defendant was different, but the same small,
shiftv-eved individual butted in, and explained tha..
the defendant was middle-weight champion of France,
and had knocked all Paris into a cocked hat. the
profit that time was ss. and a pajr of drinks.
“Bloggs” : How often does one get a chance to see
a worm turn? Not twice in a lifetime. Perh a ° s ;
The feat was executed before my very eves the other
dav. and highly interesting it was to watch. 1 had
been lured into a haberdashery establishment by a
woman friend, she having handed me the lying tale
that the whole of her business would be done
within five minutes. A man in a late Victorian
frock coat hurried up and tried to sell her feather
neck-ornament for 10 guineas. He failed. He tried
next to get rid of a hideously expensive lace arrange-
ment. Again he went down. After meeting with a
few more rebuffs, he seemed to go selling mad or
commerce fanti, or something, and dashed round
blindlv, seeking, apparently, to dispose of the entire
shop. His air of fulsome civility gradually van-
ished He became less and less genteel. A lowering
expression suffused his face. As his prey rose to
go? a packet of pins in her hand, he stood doggedly
in front of her, and said tensely: And yer not
ter buv any of ’em?” He was informed that he
had guessed right, or drawn the first horse in the
sweep, or words to that effect. It was here that he
turned, possibly for the first time in a long life of
crawling- self-repression. “Then,” he almost howled,
“will yer please pay yer bill. It’s been owing fer
munce.” She could not have looked more astounded
had a sea-lion walked into the shop and started try-
ing on blouses. Her credit was good for almost any
amount, and she knew that the infuriated trader
knew it. “Certainly I’ll pay the bill,” she said
acidly. “Get me a blank cheque form. I'll also
close my account.” I am grieved to say that at
this stage.the worm reverted to type with sickening
speed, and pleaded most abjectly for mercy. Of
course he got none. The commercial worm that
revolves is invariably lost.
* * * *
“Foe”: One of my good friends is an advertising
artist. Or, rather, he is an artist who does advertis-
ing work because undiluted Art doesn’t pay. The
way that man talks about the various business men
he works for is something shocking. He says that
they can’t appreciate Art—that they are hogs, and
fair cows, and that Commerce and Art will never run
together here. I can hardly believe it—especially
when 1 look at the beautiful corset advertisements.
Even in the fruit trade Art is rampant. Last night,
as 1 was passing the premises of my fruit brigand
or apple bushranger some beautiful blushing straw-
berries caught my eye. I stopped and looked at
them again. They looked like 20 sunsets for Is.
Another man stopped beside me and stood as if
entranced. “How did they manage to pick them?"
he murmured, and swallowed. We conferred toge-
ther and took a short-range observation. The things
were really only just ripe. But the artistic robber
had concealed an electric globe wrapped in red
crinkled paper under the shelf ; ust above the
swindle, and those berries were getting a 16-candle-
power blush at so much per volt. Art is long; it
stretches everywhere.
* * * »
“X.P.D.”: An extra-reinforced, burglar-proof tariff
will iie wanted when even one per cent, of China’s
400,000,000 people —who, barring a few mandarins
and very young children, are all workers —take on
manufacturing for the foleign tlade. The average
daily wage in China is supposed to be somewhere
about a penny a day. At present most of us regard
the Chow as a potential producer of nothing more
important than lacquered boxes, fans, cheap furni-
ture and the like. I struck a different idea yester-
day, when I went to a missionary exhibition. The
Indian, Papuan and Samoan stalls were pretty, but
not alarming to one whose living depends on Aus-
tralian industries. But the Chinese-made goods!
The tablecloths and other embroidered fabrics, the
wife told me, were the best she had ever seen.
Hand-made lace, from 4d. a yard; embroidered dress-
lengths; handkerchiefs; a mother-o’-pearl necklace;
vases of carved bamboo and delicate porcelain.
models of machinery—these gave me a lot to think
about and everv thought had that penn.v-a-dav skill
woven into it.' Most of the softcoocls showed no
trace of the Yellow Peril in design or work; the
stitches, ete, had been taught at missionary indus-
trial schools. Once we scoffed at made-in-Germanv
goods. We know better now. And it looks to me
that we mav soon have to leave off poking horak at
Chinese-made goods and take them far more seri-
ously. Ah Cheap doesn’t know what be can do vet.
When he does find out, our tariff will have to go up
or our factory walls may as well come down.
* * * *
“Gidyea”: In Queensland surveyors are paid for
their work according to the class of country the'
are in. A schedule is fixed, and for very rough,
pear-infested or other curse-smitten ccuntry up to
80 per cent, is allowed over schedule rates. 01
Theodolite, who has been surveying in the halt
country for the last 20 years, sent in a claim for
payment for one piece of work done at 40 per cent,
over and for the next section claimed 80 per cent,
over. A departmental letter demanding an explana-
tion brought the following reply: “I claimed 40 per
cent over schedule rates for the first section because
the alligators were 10ft. long and the swamp knee-
deep, and 80 per cent, over in the .second, becai f sc the
swamps were up to mv neck and the alligators -Oft.
long.” Claim allowed. \
A BLOW AT TRADE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Rev. Dr. Walsh, of the Theistic Church, advo-
cated eliminating the word “hell” from the Bible.
When asked his opinion, Professor Rentoul, Moderator
of the Presbyterian Church of Australia, expressed
disapproval of the idea. Daily paper.
The gospel trader grumbled.
And cursed his wretched lot;
“My wares,” he growled, “grow rusty,
And sell them I can not.
The trade has gone to pot!
“The ancient creeds wear badly,
The oft-told yarns -grow stale ;
Some even doubt if Jonah
Resided in a whale —
Their faith is apt to fail!
“I’ve tried them with the story
Of Joseph, who, although
Requested by a lady
To spoon wdth her. said ‘No’—
Folks wink an eye at Joe!
“One line I keep in stock, though,
And never fail to sell:
There always has existed
A strong demand for Hell —-
It pays me rather well!
“But now some fool-inspectors
Its sale desire to stop ;
If they succeed, my profits
Wili show a sudden drop—
I’ll have to close up shop!”
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


• / • • • %•*
• • *
(Urn
r
• ••*•••••
, •• , * . • .
40
Scciyc I\'
cfcotcl) Wty
, f , titt/t/ tiff/ /,
Jun In/li
'
(/ .
.;;;:; . •.. -.tw
4
• U
J* • •
imuii
BiSKfe®
• .*•/.*.*: \* / *•* . *7;
V*
Mi
; i
I I
, • •
(,A.
/
i
K
WM
UJ
V
THE
TOP-NOTCH
OF SCOTCH
»S
wrm
Scotch lOhistuj
A delightful refresher after a long dusty motor
spin, and any other occasion when the tired
body and strained nerve system require
gently stimulating.
“ King George IV” is “top notch" in all
the essentials of a high grade whisky
great age —fine bouquet rounded
mellowness —and perfect
purity.
AT TOP-NOTCH SPEED


25|-
30
Lady’s Solid Silver Hunting
Keyless LEVER WATCH, J-
plate, full jewelled, patent ad-
justed balance, 25/- Higher
Grade, 30/-, 35/-, 40/-,
50/- Solid Gold, £3,
£3/10/-, £4.
Post Free All Over Australasia
AUNDEKS
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER
sends all these Beautiful Designs and any Order in Jewellery. Let us forward you our Free
Catalog—and then send us an Order. You will find our Designs so Satisfactory, our Personal
Service so Good, and our Prices Wonderfully Low.
22/6.
GOLD EARRINGS, set
Pearls and Amethysts,
or Red Stones.
157-
GOLD BROOCH, set Pearls and Garnet.
Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding WATCH
BRACELET, full jewelled Lever movement, accur-
ate, reliable.
Higher Grade, £5/10/-, £6/10/-
£l2/10/-
18et. GOLD, all
Diamond Cluster.
Cd
25
15ct. GOLD WED-
DING RING. 18ct.
Gold, 30/-
30/-
GOLD BROOCH and
PENDANT COMBINA-
TION, set Pearls and
Amethyst or Garnet.
£4/10/-
15ct. GOLD BROOCH, set
pure, double-cut Diamonds,
and Rubies or Sapphires.
12j6
15 1-
Gent.’s Nickel, Open Face, xveyless
LEVER, full jewelled, patent adjusted
balance, non-magnetic time spring, dust
and waterproof cases, 12/6, 157-
Higher Grades, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-
Solid Silver, £2.
20|-
25/-
£
22/6.
GOLD LINKS, set
Red or Blue Stone.
15ct. Gold, £2. Dia-
mond set, 15ct. Gold,
£3/10/-
£2(10/-
£2/10/-
GOLD NECKLACE, set Pearls and
Peridots, and Garnets, Amethysts and
Peridots.
17/6.
GOLD PENDANT, set
Pearls and Amethysts
or Garnets.
£lO.
18ct. GOLD, set S
large Diamonds.
Larger Diamonds,
£l2/10/-. £l5
mm**
£5.
18ct. GOLD, set 5
pure, double-cut
Diamonds. Larger
Diamonds,
£6/10/-,
£7/10/-
12/6.
GOLD BROOCH, set Pearls and Gar-
net, or Amethyst.
GOLD LINKS, any in-
itials engraved. 15ct.
Gold. 40/-
GOLD BROOCH and PEN-
DANT COMBINATION, set
handsome Cameo and Pearls.
12/6.
GOLD EARRINGS, set
Pearls and Red or
Blue Stones.
15ct. GOLD SPRAY BROOCH, eat pure
white Pearls.
jMIUP"*” 1
nMMOflniliffi
£3.
GOLD BRACELET, set Diamonds and Garnets, or
Peridots.
807-817 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
c.
• • -V.
%
■
r \
Many men use an old-fashioned razor because
the blade can be kept in such perfect condition
by stropping. Not everyone knows that the
Auto Strop Safety Razor gives just this kind
of edge combined with all the advantages of a
safety razor. It “strops itself in 12 seconds
without removing the blade, and makes self-
shavmg not only possible but most desirable.
STROPS ITSELF AND SAVES
CONSTANT EXPENSE FOR BLADES.
Obtainable of all high class dealers throughout Australasia.
Managing Agents for Australasia:
PARTRIDGE-ABERCROMBY, Ltd.,
York Chambers,
Market Street. Sydney.
The Only
Razor that Strops Itself
BLADE-STROPPING IS EASIER THAN BLADE-
CHANGING AND CHEAPER THAN BLADE-BUYING
Test it against any non-stropping razor and you will realise
not only the enormous saving in blade expense, but the
clean, cool, close shave that only a stropped blade can give.
.AuloStFop
feXzoß
In handsome velvet-lined leather-covered case, as
illustrated, containing quadruple-silver-plated
self-stropping razor, genuine horsehide strop,
and 12 “Valet ” blades complete.
Price in Australia . . 22/6
Price in New Zealand. . 25/-
.7
.
mm
m.
m


The Points of Merit
of EDISON Lamps
EDISON LAMPS are the
most extensively used
lamps in the world, exceeding
by millions the sale of any
other make of lamp. Write
for Price List and Catalogue
No. 333.
Vitrite glass button forming
moisture proof cap.
Accurately sized, machine made
" stem ” or “ mount ” for fila-
ment. Insures accurate center-
ing of filament in bulb and pro-
vides a strong support.
Filament “clamps” or joints of
specially prepared carbon
cement. Hold filament ends se-
curely and avoid " hot clamps ”
and broken connections.
Strong, uniform high grade fila-
ment free from spots or disco-
lorations. Note the oval form of
filament —a symmetrical shape,
which conforms to the lines of
the bulb.
First class vacuum uniformly
effected by the chemicalmethod
of exhaust. Reduces blacken-
ing—maintains candle power —
ensures reliability.
1-6(1
rmso^
]
Uniform and strong cap —sym-
metrically centred and firmly
fitted on bulb. Secured with
special waterproof cement, which
prevents loose caps.
Platinum wiressecurely welded
to “leading-in ’’ wires with weld
knot clamped into the glass, re-
lieving the platinum from any
strain.
Nickelled iron anchors support-
ing filament, preventing droop-
ing and checking vibration. Note,
anchors are in an unobtrusive
position where they do not cast
shadows.
Uniform bulb blown in moulds
and gauged to exact and uniform
size, carefully selected free from
flaws and blemishes.
Small, strong, securely made
tip—reduces tip breakage which
destroys many lamps.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC C 2:
217 Clarence Street, Sydney. Corner Queen anti Little Collins Streets, Melbourne.
AGENTS
[ ADELAlDE.—Unbehaun & Johnstone. Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
| BRlSBANE.—Engineering Supply Co. of Aust., Ltd., George Street.
I PERTH, W.A.—Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., 20 Queen Street.
I NEW ZEALAND.—National Electrical & Engineering Co., Ltd., Auckland, Dunedin & Wellington.
f'Ringing for More!
W
V
/A
Bird’s
Custard
stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess*
Has stood the test of time
l Over 70 years ’ success.
Shows you every possible kind and calibre of Rifle suited to Australian requirements. M e
mention some hard-hitting- favorites. The full list is sent post free on your mentioning this paper.
STEVENS “FAVORITE,” .25 cal. Rifle, take-down, 22in., half-octagon barrel, walnut stock and
fore-end, Rocky Mountain front and Sporting rear sights, weight 4pi. Postage, 3/8 25/-
WINCHESTER 1892 Rifles, cal. .25, .32, .38, .44, half (7 shots) or full magazine (14 shots),
adjustable Sporting sights, 24in. round barrel, weight, 7-}lb. Postage, 5/2. . . 62/0
WINCHESTER 1892 TAKE-DOWN RIFLE, as above, but full magazine and .32 and .44 cal.
on ]y . 90/-
WINCHESTER 1892 CARBINES, light weight, half magazine carries 6 and full 12 shots, 20m.
barrel, .25, .32, .38, .44 cals., weight sflb. Postage 4/2. ................. 60/-
WINCHESTER .401 AUTOMATIC RIFLE, 20m. nickel-steel round barrel, take-down, SKLI -
LOADING, capacity 5 shots, shoots high-power, rimless, smokeless, nickel-jacketed, soft-nose
bulleted cartridges. Postage, 5/2 £7
ALCOCIi & PIERCE, 318 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred of “Hop’s” best drawings. Full
Bulletin size- Price, 21s.
PILE PILLS.
PERMANENT CURE.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS.
Non-aperient. A sure and speedy cure for all cases
of Internal and External Piles.
Have Cured Thousands of Cases, some after suffering
over 40 years.
Made and sold by ANDREW MURPHY, WOY
WOY (N.S.W.), Sole Proprietor.
PRICE 3/- PER BOX, or 8 BOXES £l,
Post Free.
On Sale at All Druggists and Chemists throughout
the States.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austra-
lasian, (3d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the offices, 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
THE Australian .Magazine—THE LON i.
HAND. Tlie National Monthly. Price. 6d
s
». •*
LMt
■Air
TESTS ON ABOVE ENGINES.
1. Guaranteed Consumptions . • • • • •
2. Consumptions attained on official test by i» ov
ernment Testing Bureau ■ • ■ • ■■ •
3. Consumptions given by the Station officials alter
running 6 months on load
WOLF
Patent Superheated
Steam Locomobiles
We are installing, amongst others, three of these
engines for the SYDNEY WATER SUPPLY, and
two for the BROKEN HILL WATER SUPPLY;
we also have a great many already in successful
use throughout Australia.
The illustration shows
The Fulda Electric Power Station,
consisting of—
-2 Units, type V.K., 480 B.H.P. each, with
direct coupled dynamos.
Repeat 1 Unit, type V.K., 680 B.H.P, each, witli
direct coupled dynamos.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES;
Haes 8 Eggers Ltd.
163 Clarence Street, Sydney


THREE CHEERS!!
Haig 8 Haig Scots Whisky
(ESTABLISHED 1679.)
Franz Josef Lager Beer
Hackerbrau Dark Lager
. . . DRINK . . .
DANIEL CRAWFORD’S
PURE SCOTCH WHISKY.
CRAWFORD'S is recognised by connoisseurs as being the
FINEST VERY OLD SCOTCH. It is a Superior Whisky
of Superb Flavor and Perfect Purity, and NEVER
FAILS TO PLEASE. ‘
As Supplied to the “ P. 8 0.” and other large Shipping Companies.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Jervis Bay, the place to which the Sydney
Congestion party always refused a railway
or a decent wharf or a chance of any sort —
the place which, to-day, is very much as it
was before Captain Cook’s grandfather was
born, got quite an advertisement last week.
Pratten, a N.S.W. politician, wrote about it
thus in Sydney Telegraph :
This magnificent harbor, which contains 120 square
miles of anchorage, is the finest upon the east
coast of Australia —
Better, apparently, than even Sydney—
and may well be claimed to be the noblest haven
in. the woild. Its frowning headlands, with Bowen
Island in the centre, form a triple Gibraltar, wholly
impregnable to attack by sea. Its fairway is of
great depth, affording water to the largest ships
that have been, or ever can be, built. Throughout
the whole expanse of this haven there is neither rock
nor shoal.
One might think this was part of a bitter
indictment against the N.S.W. Government
for keeping the splendid harbor neglected and
inaccessible, lest it should compete against
the trade monopoly of Sydney. Not on your
life! It was part of a furious attack on
the N.S.W. Government because it proposed
to let the Federal authorities use a part of
the wonderful inlet, and build a town there,
and construct some wharves, and break in,
more or less, upon the awful, lonely dead-
aess of the spot.
THE EFFLUXION OF TIME.
FATHER TIME : "Oh, well! It's up to me, I
suppose. ”
A new row appears to have commenced in
the Balkan States, and the loudest small
cat on the roofj of things—Servia, to wit —
was solemnly warned the other day by Rus-
sia to keep the peace. Russia must be
growing a trifle hoarse by now.
The plea of N.S.W. Opposition-leader
Wade that personalities should be dropped,
fits in beautifully with recent political hap-
penings. Personalities are being dropped
with such assiduity on almost everybody
these days that it isn’t safe for a bald-
headed member to sit with his hat off.
Thus N.S.W. Premier Holman at Dubbo;
I know at the last Federal elections the Liberals
had a certain momentary gleam of encouragement.
The neglect of our supporters betrayed strongholds
into the hands of the enemy.
“The neglect of our supporters”—yes. Let’s
see. Where was Holman while those Fed-
eral elections were being fought?
Wade declared for the 1055th time last
week that “the people recognised that the
sooner a return was made to sane finance
the better for N. S. Wales.” He would per-
haps have been making better use of the
tongue that Shakspeare, etc., etc., had he
said “less insane finance.” The present
generation of N.S.W. electors has not the
pleasure of knowing what might be called
really sane finance, by sight—in the State
Parliamentary line, that is.
Comparing the last year of the Wade Gov-
ernment in N.S.W. with the last year of the
McGowen-Holman Government, there is at
least one matter on which the latter gang
has economised. Here is the item, in all the
glare of its beautiful publicity:—
Redeaiption of Debt.
1909-10. 1912-13. Reduction.
£421,034 £394,204 £26,830
There is a lot more debt to redeem now than
there was in 1910, and the McGowen-Holman
gang professed to be especially a Govern-
ment, or crowd of political bushrangers,
with a great programme of honesty, economy
and debt-obliteration. It seems to have
made a rather unhappy choice of an item to
save money upon.
TO HELP ULSTER'S CAUSE.
Samuel McCaughey, of North Yanco, has cabled to
the treasurer of the Ulster movement: “Ask me for
any money required. —Daily paper.
This is intended to show him before and
after helping the . Ulster movement. (N.B.—
The story is now contradicted, but the artist
would have to be paid for his picture all the
same, and this paper hates to waste money.)
“Marranunga”: One of the most whole-
hearted little warrior corps that you’ll find
in Australia has its quarters at Port Darwin.
There’s no compulsory training in the little
capital of the Territory, more’s the pity ; but
there’s a Cable Guard, a company detailed
to keep an eye on the shore-
ward end of the submarine
cable, and with a standing
in the Australian army.
These Guards are the real
thing. They roll up for
drill, for manoeuvres, for
shooting practice with the
regularity that tells. Re-
cently they decided to spend
three days under canvas, and
pitched a site some 20 miles
or so out of Darwin. They
were given free passes on
the railway, but every penny
of the cost of camp equip-
ment came out of their own
pockets. They got no pay
for these days. The Com-
monwealth allows them uni-
forms, rifles and cartridges ;
none the less, a number of
lads purchase extra cart-
ridges, so as to have a free
hand at rifle practice. As
one remarked, “Of course, it makes a bit of
a hole in a fellow’s pocket money; but
Asia’ll make a bigger one if we’re not up to
scratch.”
Ribald Laborites have a ready-made gibe
to throw at McLachlan, the new Liberal
leader in S. Aus. From his habit of talking
a great deal in a raucous voice, his brethren
at the Bar long ago rechristened him
McCackling.
LETTING HIM DOWN GENTLY.
HE (apologising): "I don't know, weally. It's
vewy stwange. But I've a beastly habit
of speaking without thinking.”
SHE (soothingly): “I understand. You cant
possibly help not thinking .”
The strangest jest yet perpetrated by the
inept N.S.W. Government is its Vaccination
Bill. Recognising that small-pox is a horror,
and that the only safeguard is compulsory
inoculation, Holman and co. propose that
everybody born after October 1 this year
shall be compulsorily inoculated, and that
all the existing population shall be allowed
to slide. The miserable kid seems to come
in for everything, except the old age pension.
His father grabs that.
From the report of the N.S.W. Auditor-
General :
On account of the heavy drain on the general
banking account it became necessary to supplement
the local balance.... by obtaining further advances
and deposits from the Commonwealth Government
and another external source.
The money that the Australian Government
has to advance is, of course, the money of
Australia in general. So, apparently, the
once haughty old Ma State, which, George
Reid said, wouldn’t mind “financing” its
poorer partners, is now borrowing a “bob”
or two from places like South Australia,
just to go on with.
This is the most awful remark up to date
re the proposed bogus insurrection of \-
Ulster: —
London, Friday.—Mr. John Mackirmon Robertson,
M.P. (Liberal, Tyneside Division, Northumberland),
Parliamentary Secretary to the Board of Trade, speak-
ing at Newcastle, said Sir Edward Carson’s provi-
sional government was an economic blunder and a
practical impossibility.
It would not be the work of a week, he said, for
the British Post Office to cease all communication
with Sir Edward Carson’s supporters.
Probably John Mackinnon Robertson, M.P.,
didn’t mean to be humorous, and merely
spoke what was in his mind. But did any-
one, even by a mental accident, propose to
put down Garibaldi or Louis Kossuth or
Benito Juarez or Jefferson Davis by stop-
ping the transmission of his picture post-
card and his love-letter and his bootmaker’s
bill?
From a discursive old Parliamentarian :
Premier Watt is head and shoulders first in the
Victorian local Parliament, where he rejoiceth in his
strength. Yet, if he got into the National Parlia-
ment, the case might be like that of Jones, the
actor. Young Macready said to his father, the Bir-
mingham manager: “Why don’t you give Jones bet-
ter parts? I saw him act Hamlet beautifully in a
village.” Dad: “All right in the village; but put
him in my company and he’s only Rosencrantz.”
Still, Watt’s introduction of his Greater Melbourne
Bill would be considered masterly anywhere. It is
his own fad, so to speak. Rosebery says Glad-
stone’s Cabinet didn’t believe in his Home Rule. In
the same way Watt drags his Cabinet. Fancy Jack
Murray seriously surveying this Greater Melbourne
Bill of 228 pages, magnificently systematic! Not
that Watt expects to pass it. As with the Charities
Bill, he onlv rides for a fall. He just wants to de-
monstrate the things which must be done in the
future, and prove himself a statesman, with claims
to leadership in the National Parliament —which he
will get, if his constitution holds out. There is no
majority for the Greater Melbourne Bill—at the
moment. Yet, Watt was an enchanter for three
hours; and as he proceeded there was universal ad-
miration of his ability. There the thing ended.
“There is no honesty in politics. It i* „
game of sink or swim.”— Remark by a di
irons federal politician.
The Little Pedlington section of NSW
has been tilled of late with the dust of rale
and the debris of aspersion and the dry crust
of recrimination because it is proposed to
grant the Australian Government IS 000
acres at Jervis Bay for a Federal seaport
This area represents about 28 square miles
which means some 5i miles each way. Now
seeing that a town must have—in addition
to building space, parks and sundries—a
reservoir, a water catchment area and an
outlet for drainage, what use is 18,000 acres’*
When everything else is provided for. there
will probably remain about one square mile
to catch the rain for the supply of the new
seaport. It would take more space than
that to catch any ordinary port’s beer
supply !
Now that Henry Willis has ceased from
the Speakership the N.S.W. Assembly is
more like its old glad self. During one very
brief debate last week the first member im-
pugned the second member’s honesty. In
fact, he almost called him a swindler. Inci-
dentally the first member complained that
he had been called “a scoundrel.” The
second member said it was “a deliberate
lie.” He also said: “He’ll get what he’s
looking for.” The third member said that if
the second member got what he was “looking
for” he would no longer be in Parliament.
The fourth member said that if the third
member didn’t take care he would get what
he was “looking for.” The second member
opined that the first member belonged to
“the gutter” and indulged in “tittle-tattle.”
The second member also scoffed at the first
member for his alleged cowardice and
double-dealing in the matter of the fifth
member. The first member said that the
fifth member wasn’t “game.” The second
member said that the first member’s whole
political career was “gamey.” He also said
that it stank, and again called him a cow-
ard. There was wild uproar on the part of
everybody up to the twenty-sixth member.
The first member treated the second mem-
ber “with contempt,” and denied everything.
The second member denied everything, and
everything else in addition. The twenty-
seventh member, who is elderly and kind and
fat, tried to interpose between the first mem-
ber and the second member. The twenty-
eighth member was heard yelling in the dis-
tance. And then, all of a sudden, the affair
fizzled out. It was quite like old times.
A TORY TRAGEDY.
Previous to the Wollondilly ballot, he announced
that if not selected in that constituency he would
not offer himself for any other....That the country
should lose the services of a politician like Mr.
William McMillan at a time when men of his calibre
are so lamentably scarce in our public life, etc., etc.
Sydney TELEGRAPH, in an impassioned leader.
THE CHIEF M OURNER: "Ter-r-rible ! An' ’m
wun uv the old shoot, too! S’miff t' mole
a body say ‘Damn Democracy,’ so it is!"
(Grim silence, except for the ssip-ssip of falling
tears and gulping sobs.)
“Optic” ; According to a reply to a
tion asked in the Representatives by Riley,
M.H.R., the feline is out of the sack as to
why Commander Brewis was not. appointe
Director of Commonwealth Lighthouses.
The Public Service Commissioner reported
to the Minister that he was not suitable on
account of his temperament.” Brewis, wno
is credited with the temper of one ot t P
tain Marryat’s old sea dogs, must .m i
“sassed” the Public Service _ Commissioner.
Ramsbotham. now of Westralia, who got
appointment, is a civil engineer, whicn ap
pears to be of more importance than
uncivil lighthouse expert.
THE REWARD OF VIRTUE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A social was tendered to Mr. F. M. Robb, the de-
feated candidate for Bourke, by the People’s Liberal
party, at the Northcote Town Hall. The Prime
Minister, on behalf of local residents, presented Mr.
Robb with a purse of sovereigns. He said he had
no idea how much was in the purse, but he was sure
it contained more than gold. It contained the
esteem and affections of the great audience.
-—Melbourne Age.
Upon the platform, brave and bold, the bright young
Liberal stood,
And hearkened as his leader called him strong and
staunch and good.
With knowing nods and winks and blinks (he loved
his little joke)
The Old Man pushed upon the lad his gold pig in
a poke.
“Take this,” he said, and blinked and winked. “It
mayn’t seem much to you,
But” —here he added knowing nods —“you have our
blessing, too!”
“You have our blessing, boy,” he said, and clapped
him on the back;
“The purse is bulging with goodwill, though sover-
eigns it may lack.
Let our affection and esteem assist* you on your
way,
And draw on our most kind regards if you have bills
to pay.”
With winks and blinks the leader said: “Should
times for you be bad,
Pray take our benediction and best wishes, too, my
' lad!”
The bright young Liberal stood before his cheerful,
chaffing chief,
What time the audience made a joyous uproar past
belief;
With cheers on cheers, with thunder from each rest-
less Liberal hoof,
They roused things up so wildly that their clamor
shook the roof.
“It’s thus,” the speaker said, “that we reward a pal
like you,
With loud applause, and” —blinks and winks —“per-
haps a quid or two!”
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


Pratt’s Spirit
for your motor
Car
Gossip
Also use the most suitable oil
&^RGO Yi f
'6Qr~ 1/
Mobiloils
A, B, BB and E
are specialties, but one will give
you better results than the
others. Don t chance any
grade when you can get that
specially designed for your
make of car.
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty. Ltd.
Throughout the
Commonwealth and
New Zealand
For One Week More
Only
WE, SHALL PAY CARRIAGE.
Some of our Country Patrons outside Victoria have
not been acquainted with our POST FREE OFFER,
so for ONE WEEK LONGER we shall pay
carriage on all orders —large or small.
Will you take advantage of this splendid oppor-
tunity and send in your order now ?
A Genuine Hurst Value!
No. 210
17(6
Reduced from 20/-
Men’s Box Calf Balmorals in latest shape.
Well-lined and finished t strong welted soles
Guaranteed throughout. A really com-
fortable and stylish boot —and, remember,
for ONE WEEK MORE POST FREE.
i
LET US
SEND YOU
OUR
CATALOGUE-.
Russell Street,
MELBOURNE.
Country Order Department,
BOOKS on GAS ENGINES
These are Standard Books that we can recommend very
highly. They have been carefully prepared and revised
by acknowledged Technical Experts. We invite
Engineers and Mechanics to call here and inspect them.
DOUBLE POSTAGE RATES TO NEW ZEALAND.
We have Many Good Books on Oil Engines
and Steam Engines.
CATALOGUE SENT ON REQUEST.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD
476 George Street
(OPPOSITE QUEEN
VICTORIA MARKETS),
Sydney.
/€>
\
Held in
a Girl’s
Hand!
Pathe’s Home
Cinematograph
EVERYTHING NECESSARY, EXCEPTING ONLY THE SCREEN,
IS IN THE MACHINE AS THE GIRL IS HOLDING IT.
Pathe’s Home Cinematograph.
Makes its own light. Fig. 16 is a small magneto. As the handle that
projects the picture is turned, sufficient light is produced in the magneto to
throw a moving picture of startling distinctness on the screen. Anyone, in
any place, town or country, can have Moving Pictures in the Home without
the use of gas, electric light, or oil. No outside light is necessary. You
cannot get this advantage in any other cinematograph.
The Films will not burn.
Path 6 Films are non-inflammable. There is absolutely no danger. In
Victoria the Fire Underwriters’ Association charge no extra premium if a
Pathe Home Cinematograph is in the home. You cannot get this advantage
in any other cinematograph.
Large choice of Films in Pathe’s Circulating Library
not obtainable for any other cinematograph.
PATHE FRERES,
27 Alliance Building's,
48 Queen Street, Melbourne.
HOME CINEMATOGRAPH & AGENCIES PTY.
LTD., 4-8 Queen Street, Melbourne;
BIRCH & CARROLL, Edward Street, Bris-
bane; S. SPURLINC & SON, 93 Brisbane
Street, Launceston; OPTICAL & PHOTO
SUPPLIES CO., 672 Hay Street, Perth;
orC. W. FRASER & CO.. 139 York Street,
Sydney; HARRINGTONS (N.Z.) LTD.,42 Willis
Street, Wellington, N.Z.; W. PARK, Sta-
tioner, Palmerston North, N.Z. ; C. R. FORE-
MAN & CO., Napier, N.Z.; WILKINS & FIELD
HARDWARE CO. LTD., Nelson. NcwZealand ;
THE NEW ZEALAND FARMERS’CO-OPERA-
TIVE ASSOCIATION OF CANTERBURY LTD.;
PATERSON & BARR LTD., Dunedin, for
Dunedin; The Arts and Crafts Depot,
Masterton, N.Z.
CUT OUT AND POST TO-DAY
Please send me particulars of Fathi's
Home Cinematograph.
Name,
Address
27.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Absolutely Pure. S LIMITED , Brewer by Appoint-
ed Preservatives. / \ n/ent to his Excellency the Governor-General.
Brewery and Offices : Dowling Street, Redfern, Sydney
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
DR. SHELDON’S DIGESTIVE TABULES
are a positive cure for Indigestion, Flatulence, Heart-
burn, Acidity of Stomach, and all Stomach Troubles.
Price, Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. per tin. Obtainable
everywhere.*
810-SHOWMEN!
""T HERE’S onlv one BEST Biograph. We can prove
1 it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE.” Send for Cata-
logue. Sole agents: Jerdan’s, Ltd., 393 George Street,
Sydney. '
Missing Friends.
A Federal Detective Agency.
J. CANTLON
(late Victorian Detective Police) vnder-
takes Commercial, Confidential, Next of Kin,
Missing Friend and Matrimonial Enquiries,
Searches. Surveillance.
49 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
□ RADY, CHRISTINA, daughter of late JAMES and
CHRISTINA BRADY, of Dublin, last heard of
January 8, 1877, at Logan Village Hotel, Queensland ;
afterwards understood to be at Queen’s Hotel, Towns-
ville, Queensland, will hear something to her advan-
tage by communicating with her sister,
MRS. ANNE COEN (nee Brady),
Tenterfield, N.S.W.
Any friend of hers please communicate.
□ ERRY. —If Thomas Berry, formerly with J. H.
k-* Young and Co., and son bf Henry Berry, of
Grenfell, deceased, will communicate with J. N.
Moffitt, Solicitor, Grenfell, he will hear of something
to his advantage.
THEY STIR THE LIVER.
NO REMEDY AS POTENT AS DR.
MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS.
The climate of Australia is such that the
Liver gets out of order quicker than any
other organ of the body. When the Liver
does get out of order the whole system is
upset, and Constipation, Biliousness and
Stomach Troubles follow speedily. Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills reach the Liver
as no other remedy ever did. They open
the clogged ducts, allowing the Bile to flow,
which is essential to the digestion and assi-
milation of food. Constipation, Biliousness,
Stomach Troubles and Sick Headaches are
the result of Liver inactivity, and the
remedy that “Stirs the Liver” will at once
relieve these distressing complaints.*
Government Notices.
KALGOORLIE TO PORT AUGUSTA
RAILWAY.
Applications for Position of Supervising
Engineer at Kalgoorlie.
APPLICATIONS are invited from persons
competent to fill the position of Super-
vising Engineer at the Kalgoorlie end ol
the Kalgoorlie to Port Augusta Railway.
Applicants must have a thorough know-
ledge of Railway Construction in all its
branches, and be capable of handling large
bodies of men. The successful applican
will be immediately responsible t 0 t . l , e
Engineer-in-Chief for Commonwealth Kai -
ways. The salary will be at the rate o
£750 per annum. _ . f
Applications, accompanied by copies
testimonials, and addressed to the »ec
tary, Department of Home Affairs, wni
received until noon on MON DA x,
OCTOBER, 1913.
JOSEPH COOK, .
Minister of State for Home Attans. _
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, 20th Sept., 1913.
COMMONWEALTH NAVAL HOOiv-
YARD, COCKATOO ISLAND, N.b.'v.
Y T acancies for Apprentices.
Applications are invited tro
youths desirous of adrniss
Apprentices to the following trades nr .katoo
Commonwealth Naval Dockyard, opi„fer, 0 pi„f e r,
Island, Sydney: Caulker, Joiner,
Plumber. Riveter, Shipwright. _ r
Applicants must not be less than
more than 18 years on the Ist Octob .
■
FulPpartieulars and forms of
may be obtained from the Naval fe .r Gen ,
Navy Office, Melbourne, or v VDock-
eral Manager, Commonwealth Nav< TgleSi
vard. Cockatoo Island. New South
Applications close on 31st October,
S. A. PBTHBBBIDC® tWi
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The fight between Owen Moran and Matt
Wells, at Sydney Stadium, was preceded by as vim-
ful a battle as ever raged over the historic floor.
The combatants were Hector Melville, who spars
with Hughie Mehegan, and Tom King, who does the
same office with Moran. They made it fast from the
jump, and as they were fighting two-minute rounds,
they could keep up the pace. Melville was the more
aggressive fighter, and in the last round he was
giving King a very sudden time. King tried to back
away, but a human avalanche leaped after him and
smote him with what seemed to be rocks. Then King
suddenly crossed the right just as Melville came in
to kill, and the latter went to the boards with much
disturbance. Instead of taking all the sleep he could
Melville scrambled up before daybreak and tried to
fight. He was a painful example of the evils of early
rising. It was as much as he could do to stand, but
King failed to finish him, and after being fought to
the ropes and knocked half-way through them, and
being hauled back by his opponent, and thrown in
various directions, he managed to hang on till the
gong went and ended the fight. King, of course, got
the decision, Melville being all but out.
Then the voice that nightly breathes the
announcements o’er the Stadium said: “Gentlemen,
Owen Moran, 9st. 1-jlb. ; Matt Wells, 9st. Bilb.” But
Wells appeared an easy stone heavier than Moran.
Wider of shoulder, taller, longer of reach and much
more bulky to look at, he seemed quite out of Moran’s
class. Then the gong clanged, and the Duke of
Wellington said that as Private Murphy was in the
ranks, the Battle of Waterloo might commence.
There was no preliminary fencing. They were
together, and Wells, trying to break away, received
a right smash in the chest which sent him tottering
against the ropes. As he came up on the rebound
he got some more, but getting his feet to work he
skirled away to the west and south. Moran followed
up, and with another body smash sent Wells to the
boards. An expression came over the Jew’s coun-
tenance which suggested that the Hebrew monarchy
was decaying, but he scrambled up and mixed it
desperately, always trying to break away and take
refuge in the gliding flight of which he is such a
master. As he struggled, Moran stepped back to let
fly another wild broadside, and Wells, swinging a
fitful fist at random, caught him right on the ex-
tremity of the nose, and knocked him into a sitting
posture between the ropes. That wallon had a far-
reaching effect —and, in fact, it won Wells the fight.
It was owing to that smack that Moran hesitated to
hurl himself into close quarters ; which, in spite of
Wells’s speed, he could always do when he liked.
Moran felt there was a possibility of a knock-out —a
thing that hadn’t occurred to him before. He had
never fought Wells in public, but they had been
sparring partners in the U.S.A., and for the first
time in his life Moran had received due and legal
notice that Wells could knock him out if the opening
was given. So when the second round started the
wild charge that the crowd expected did not come
off. Moran took no risks. He seemed to be carrying
a heavy insurance on his life. Wells was distinctly
timid, and kept right off, merely shooting quick
stabs with the left as Moran anproached him. Moran
would walk round and round, and then drop his
hands to show the crowd that if he didn’t fight, Wells
wouldn’t. It was the mistake of his life—for Wells
arrived suddenly and smote him every time he did
it. The affair degenerated into a weary sparring for
openings, which neither would give, relieved only by
the occasional rush of Wells’s left to Moran’s face.
Both used 1 their heads, and in one of the bumps
Moran’s eye was cut. Thereafter Wells aimed for
the injured spot every time. The thing became so
utterly dreary that whole rounds passed with only
three or four blows being struck. One of the audi-
ence took out a newspaper and read it steadily, tak-
ing no notice of the dancing and clinching. Not
till the ninth enisode was there anything like fight-
ing, and then Wells got Moran on the run, and fol-
lowed up. But nothing came of it. What blows
were struck were delivered by Wells. At the back a
man who had fallen asleep tumbled off his chair with
a curse. In the 16th, Wells trod on Moran’s corn
and made him dance more. In the 17th, amidst
tremendous excitement, Moran hit Wells for about
the first time in a dozen rounds, 'and ended the
session with a wild rally, to the damage of the
atmosphere. The air was torn in six places, and
hasn’t been repaired yet. In the beginning of the
18th it looked as though they were going to fight;
and Moran, getting a move on, roughed into Wells
and smote him something considerable on the jaw.
In the 19th Wells charged, but got roughed off with-
out doing any particular damage. In the 20th Moran
made a series of wild efforts to score a knock-out,
and succeeded in getting home on Wells’s jaw with a
right. Wells clinched and hung on like an attorney
applying for Costs. Then the gong went, and Ref-
eree Scott handed Wells the laurels amidst a storm
of hooting.
Wells is an unpopular fighter, and that section of
the crowd which demonstrates loudly but unwisely
considered he ought to have had the decision given
against him. In this opinion they were backed by
others who do know something about the game.
Writer’s opinion was that the decision given was the
only one possible. Wells won 17 out of 20 rounds.
The difference in the men’s appearance was wonder-
ful. Moran had the body beautiful, a living statue
of ivory, with a fair countenance to crown it.
Wells, shaggv, draped in baggv trunks, always hover-
ing, looked like some great bird of prey waiting a
chance to strike —a rather scared eagle, truly, but
sinister. As fightprs they are not an attractive pair.
They are too clever, and take few’ chances; they
make time dreary with incessant sparrings for open-
ings which are never given. Owing to the increased
prices the fight failed to draw the bumper house ex-
pected ; and ow’ing to the ultra-scientific nature of
their scrap, it is verv doubtful if they will ever
draw a big crowd in Svdnev even at popular prices.
Pitted against other fighters they may draw. Moran
and Mehegan should supply a hair-raising battle, for
instance.
Victoria’s League football season was
brought to a satisfactory conclusion on Saturday in
a blaze of glory. The day was a typical Australian
spring occasion. The crowd was the largest on
record —59,479, beating even the previous Saturday’s
occasion. The “gate” was scrumptious ( £2304 4s.
3d.), and the play was bright if not brilliant, and
exciting. ’Rov, meeting St. Hilda, in the grand
final, proved to be a vastly different ’Rov from that
of the week before. The men got into their stride
right off, plaving systematically and with beautiful
precision, and had piled un 24 points to one at the first
change of ends. One of their big men had been dis-
qualified during the week for elbow-jabbing, and the
warning had its effect. The Saints, on the other
hand, though playing heftily, seemed painfully slow
and unable to get any concerted movements going.
During the second and third quarters they battled on
and kept ’Roy steady; also they piled up single
points in a way that, with straighter kicking, would
have given them a lead. But the game was kept so
eager and so fast that none had time to pick his
man or play for position. Still, there were brilliant
flashes on both sides. Commencing the last quarter
’Roy held a four-goal lead—five goals 11 behinds to
one goal 10 behinds —and if the Saints were to
vanquish the Sinners, now was the time. They set about
it vimfully and simultaneously; as goal after goal
was added the Maroons lost their heads for a while
and recommenced the charging tactics of the week
before. These only brought further trouble, in the
shape of free kicks. They rushed the ball down
thrice and got three behinds —five goals 14 behinds
in all —but the Saints were hammering at the posts
persistently, and, with 10 minutes to go, had got
their figures to five goals 13 behinds. The sym-
pathetic crowd tossed its hat in the air and roared,
yelled and shrieked. But just as the victory was
about to be snatched from the Maroons they regained
some fragment of their wits, passed the ball metho-
dically round the wing twice, and scored two goals—
and the pennant was theirs, by seven goals 14 behinds
to five goals 13 behinds. Undoubtedly the winners
were the stronger team—and the rougher—on the
day, and though the crowd would have liked, the
Saints to win, ’Roy, on the season’s play, had a right
to the premiership The Saints have done well,
coming up from eighth place to second, which latter
is the highest position they have ever occupied,
though they were third in ’O7 and ’OB, and also
away back in ’74 —before most of to-day’s players
were born. ’Roy, however, reached the top of the
tree in ’95, and this year’s premiership is its sixth.
We will now, dearly beloved, grease our shoes, put
spikes on our bats and gets inside our pyjamas, for
next Saturday cricket begins. As the Scripture
saith, there is no rest for the sporting writer.
■* * * *
“The Moke” writes: The A.J.C. Spring
Meeting, which commences this Saturday at Rand-
wick, promises to give backers of favorites in the
gilded events sharper shocks than usual. Beragoon,
the red hot favorite for the A.J.C. Derby, is in the
Metrop. with 7st. 91b. next Monday, also in the
Caulfield Cup with 7st. 91b. on October 18, in the
Vic. Derby on November 1, and in the Melbourne
Cup with 7st. 61b. on November 4. The Maori-
lander, Soltano, has only one big engagement, the
A.J.C. Derby and he should win it from Beragoon,
while Beau Soult (bred but never raced in Maori-
land), Andelosia, from Victoria, and Radnor battle
behind. So much for the Derby. In the issue of
10/7/’ 13 this scribe took as the pick of the then
full Epsom basket, Bullfighter (7st. 111 b.), Riverbird
(7st. 31b ), both from the dangerous Newcastle district,
Tartanus (6st. 111 b.) and Ladies’ Man (Bst. 61b.) The
three first named have since put up good winning per-
formances. Bullfighter, recently shifted to the stable
that turned out Epsom winnner Volsloane, won at
a mile with a big load. Riverbird scored a runaway
11-mile win in Sydney on July 5, and a mile up
north on August 16, also with a big burden. Tar-
tanus got home in miles at Randwick. Also
Gigandra, who last year ran second with Bst. 101 b. to
Hartfell with 7st. 121 b., won Tatt.’s Tramway Handi-
cap of six furlongs on September 13 with lOst". 41b. up.
Since then he has been a scorching favorite and
acclaimed by the scribes as “richly deserving of the
position,” seeing that in the Epsom he has 9st. 51b.
or 131 b. less than he won the six-furlong event with.
The point to be remembered is that between the day
DAZZLED.
Owen Moran shows Matt Wells a bunch of
diamonds in the first round of their fight.
he started to race and the June day in 1912 when
the weights for the last Epsom were fixed up,
Gigandra, though he had started in several events
beyond six furlongs, had not been placed in even
one. At six furlongs—-no more and no less—he
had been a champion under thumping weights.
So he was let into last Epsom with Bst. 101 b. But
the final furlong or the two pounds found him lack-
ing. On September 20 he tried again at a mile at
Rosehill, but Soltano downed him. The point is
that Gigandra has 131 b. less in the Epsom mile
that he won the Tramway six furlongs with; but
he has 91b. more in the Epsom this year than he
failed with last time. And since last Epsom he has
started in about six events above six furlongs with-
out being once placed. So it is hard to see how
he deserves to be Epsom favorite! Tartanus should
win the Epsom, with Riverbird, Bullfighter and
Embracer wrestling for the rest of the bullion.
Embracer (7st. 121 b.) has been declared by his
owner a doubtful starter in the Metrop., and as
he won the A.J.C. Villiers mile smartly last Decem-
ber, the Epsom finish should find him well up.
Duke Foote, the public’s Metrop. monte,
was scratched at 12.11 p.m. on Friday, September
26, the day after ticket 49,591 had drawn him in
No. 1 Metropolitan sweep. There has been much
language over the withdrawal of this brute, and one
paper told the owner point-blank that if anv of
his horses won at Randwick there would be “little
enthusiasm.” Another maddened journal bade him
make up his mind that if his colors were successful
there would be few cheers. His troubles! It
might have been different had the animal been
owned by a beauty actor —but he isn’t. He belongs
to a coal baron ; and coal barons are hard as the
stuff they make their money out of. Still, it would
be an awful thing if some frenzied female backer of
doubles put out her tongue at the baron. If the
scratching of Duke Foote will do anything to turn
the public from the folly of backing doubles, owner
Brown will be a reformer in disguise. All of
which indicates that one of the stable mates,
Cagou (7st. 111 b.) and Ladies’ Man (Bst. 41b.)
should be first home in the Metrop. from Posinatus
(7st. 101 b.) and Sequarious (7st.).
From “Rosna,” in London: All available
bouquets are just now being’ thrown at Harry
Hawker, the jolly Australian youngster who
has been putting a waist-belt round the British
coast-line in the first waterplane test. Hawker, who
is a frank and engaging-looking and very boyish
person in the early 20’s, came to Britain with
several Australian pals, three years ago, to try his
luck. All were trained mechanics, and all have
become aeronautic “pilots.” Hawker has smashed
various records. He fatally injured the British
height record by riding the clouds 12,300 ft. above
anywhere; also he carted three passengers 9000 ft. on
the way to the moon and back, and punched a hole
in the duration record by keeping aloft for eight
hours without a break The waterplane triumph
was all Australian. Hawker's passenger-mechanic
Kauper was also a ’Roo-lander, and a third com-
patriot, Sidney Pickles, attempted to take on the
’plane when Hawker was disabled by sun. At one
of the “controls,” where the airmen descended to
feed his pegasus, an Australian dame went out in
a motor-boat to take him a piece of eucalyptus for
luck, the precious vegetable having been grown in
her cold British garden plot near by.
The football championship in Adelaide
was won comfortably by Port Adelaide, clearly the
best club on the whole season. Of recent years,
West has come with a late run in the finals and
upset the season’s placings. This time, West got
knocked out in a semi-final by North, which in turn
went down before Port; so no play-off was necessary.
In the lacrosse finals, on the same day, Sturt beat
University horribly—ls to four. The same clubs
contested the B Grade premiership, and the result
was the other way, by 10 to seven.
The N.S.W. Union Rugby team in Maori-
land tackled a crowd of Maoris at Auckland on
Saturday with disastrous results to itself. The usual
beautiful Auckland weather was up to standard, so
the downfall could not be attributed to the climate,
as some of the other disasters could. The playing
of the team is said to have been an exhibition of
perfect football, and at half-time the Australians
led by nine to six. It is generally understood that
a white team which can hold its own against Maoris
for the first half is a sure winner, as the Maori is
softer in the fibre than the Pakeha, and cannot last
with him. But this match was an exception. The
play of the Australians was still as perfect as ever,
but the tackling of the Maoris grew more deadly, and
the white men failed to add to their score, while
the Maoris put on a couple of tries, and so won out
with 12 points to nine.
Saturday’s meeting at Flemington is the
curtain-raiser to the two-act carnival drama which
begins at Caulfield a week later. Whilst the good
things are being sifted from the bad things at Rand-
wick, some of the warmest Victorian fancies for the
Cups will be tested, more or less, on the V.R.C.
course. The October Stakes, a w.f.a. race well worth
winning, is likely to show what sort of horse the
imported Sea Prince is when Uncle Sam asks him to
gallop, and one or other of these favorites —or both
of them —will get a set-back in the unpublished bet-
ting before the day is out. Audacity and Anna Car-
lovna may be seen going for all they are worth.
Coming events are going to cast some shadows at
Flemington this Saturday.
* * * *
The First-Grade Cricket Competition
started in Sydney on Saturday under ideal conditions,
and revealed the fact that the players had been in
regular practice for some time beforehand. Free-
man, of Glebe, heaped up 107, the only century of
the afternoon. Kelleway made 89 for the same team.
Trumper biffed 81 for Gordon, and Andrews slogged
80 for Petersham. Among the bowlers, R. J. A.
Massie took eight wickets for 69, L. Wall got six for
60. J. Flynn five for 32, and Shepherd five for 37.
In play, Central Cumberland got 257 off the bowlers
of University, North Sydney hit 185 off Western
Suburbs; Glebe piled up the mountainous score of
370 against Middle Harbor; Gordon made the more
stupendous score of 286 for three wickets against
Paddington; Petersham got 182 off Balmain, and
Balmain retorted with 110 for two wickets ; Waverley
dismissed Redfern for 83, and then totted up 149 for
seven sticks. The grounds were, in most cases, in
bad condition and made fielding difficult. There is
not sufficient time between the end of the football
season and the beginning of cricket to allow the
caretakers to get the territory into proper form.
* * * *
Consider the progress of the Rugby League
team in Maoriland. Eleven games played and all
won. The accumulation of points was 427 to the 110
scored by all Maoriland. Evidently the League game
is not flourishing in the land of the kiwi and the
earthquake and the blow-up.
It has now been definitely arranged that
an unknown number of motor-cars will roar across
the landscape between Melbourne and Sydney on
January 7,8, 9 and 10, one thousand nine hundred
and fourteen Anno Domini. The disturbance is being
organised and will be controlled by the Automobile
Clubs of Victoria and N.S.W. conjointly, but members
of other State Clubs are earnestly invited to join in
and kick up their heels so that the affair may be a
big success. Tasmania and South Australia are well
able to supply some formidable competitors, and it
is sincerely hoped that they will do so. Queensland
is a more doubtful proposition. The four daily sec-
tions will be as follows: Melbourne to Wangaratta,
146 J miles; Wangaratta to Gundagai, 167 J miles;
Gundagai to Moss Vale, 1681 miles; Moss Vale to
Sydney, 138 miles—a total run of 620$ miles as
against the 575 miles of the old route. The trophies
will be valued at £4O, £2O and £lO each, in addi-
tion to which there are special prizes in the shape
of “The Wagstaff Trophy,” a handsome shield worth
£2O, which will be awarded to the club the mem-
bers of which score the highest percentage of points.
Two wins in succession, or three altogether, will
make the shield the absolute property of the winning
club. The Dunlop Rubber Co. donates two prizes
of £5 ss. each for the two hill climbs (Prettv Sally’s
Hill in Victoria, and Bulli Pass in N.S.W.). In
addition, all comoetitors scoring 800 out of the 900
possible points will receive medallions to pass down
to their children and their children’s children, pro-
viding no junior member of the family gets hard up,
surreptitiously pawns the bauble and loses the ticket,
or neglects to redeem the pledge. The 900 nossihln
points are 600 for reliability, 200 for petrol eon
sumption and 50 for each hill climb. Altogether th"
competitors should have a good time and make in
terestmg copy for the scribes—which latter is th
chief end of man. lne
Soccer footballers have an international
riot in readiness for Eight-Hour Day in Svdnev
Australia confronts Ireland at 12.30, and at i
p.m. Scotland will wave its kilts versus England
Then after an interval for drinks the winners of these
two scrambles will clash in a final. It should be a
great game entoirely, ye ken.
* * * *
Saturday saw the Motor Yacht Club of
N.S.W. commence its new season with a grand re-
view under the command of “Admiral” Albert, who
led over 100 motor craft down the harbor in double
line, and then steamed through the lane in his flag-
ship. It was a fine sight, and it was finer still when
the boats dressed ship and the whole array looked
like a garden suddenly thrown on the water. Inci-
dentally, that amazing motor-boat, Kangaroo, with
which Mr. Hordern swept the board, is now the pro-
perty of Mr. Charles Relph, the creator and some-
time owner of the famous Invincible.
Annandale and Sydney Soccer clubs have
at last, at the third effort, proved which is the
better dog of the two. On Saturday last at Epping
(Sydney) Annandale qualified for" the final with
Newtown by smashing up Sydney and overthrowing
it by two goals to nil. Now, thank Heaven, there
is some chance of this long-dragged-out struggle
coming to an end.
Victoria and South Aus. have just had one
of the most surprising baseball matches on record on
the Adelaide Oval. Seven innings were arranged, and
till the end of the fifth things went on in the best
American style, the totals being then four runs to
two in favor of S.A. Then the latter suddenly smote
and bashed and hammered, and made the amazing total
of 15 runs in one innings—which is about equal to
1000 at cricket. An exciting game was thus spoiled,
from Vic.’s point of view ; and S.A. won in the end
by 23 to six.
The initial effort to promote a N.S.W.
25-mile amateur walking championship at Victoria
Park Racecourse (Sydney) last Saturday was not a
roaring success. Neither did it boom. There were
14 entrants, and 10 of them materialised into start-
ers. Before the journey was half-accomplished, 70
per cent, of what remained in were, to all practical
purposes, out. Only three finished before darkness
threw a veil over the agony, and they were H. T.
Dent, who had jogged the distance in 4hr. Omin. 24
l-ssec. ; A. W. Pickard, who was 6min. 49 4-ssec.
behind the winner; and L. B. West, who was Bmin.
20 4-ssec. behind the first. The world’s figures for
25 miles are 3hr. 37min. 6 4-ssec. —which is a big
difference.
Probably the most valuable outcome of the
conference of Melbourne’s hundred and one mayors
and councillors this month will be a muni-
cipal regulation of the motor toot. The proposal was
born in the crowded suburb of Prahran, where the
best regulated— i.e., the most frequently prosecuted
—motorists come from. One or more Prahran coun-
cillors, in the course of being nearly knocked down,
have noticed that a very dangerous characteristic of
the motor in busy streets is the bewildering uncer-
tainty of its warning. Six cars and bikes approach-
ing any given pedestrian at the same time are quite
likely to make half a dozen different noises, and,
maybe, the most distant noise sounds the nearest.
Perplexity is added to nervousness, and the escapee
rushes to his doom because the sounds are absurdly
confusing. No two motor horns have the same note
or power. The Prahran municipal proposal is that
all motor horns shall be of one regulation design, and
all speak one language with the same measure of loud-
ness. No more shrill “syren” calls, gruff grunts,
piercing shrieks or hoarse whispers, but just a fixed
familiar “too-toot,” having no sort of resemblance to
the tram-car’s bell. The idea is bound to be adopted
by the conference. It is too reasonable to
admit of argument. Motor-horn regulation can be
easily enforced. The public wants further protection
against the risk of sudden death, and the sentiment
of this advisable safeguard is essentially democratic.
One motor, one toot.


WHY NOT INCREASE
YOUR STRENGTH?
When it means so much to you—when it’s so
obtained.
easily
Increased strength means better
energy, improved digestion, and the
ment of the pleasures of living.
health, greater
maximum enjoy-
When you follow correct principles for
your strength, you build up the whole of
cular system.
increasing
your mus-
The first step is to develop the internal muscles
which have such important work as regulating the
actions of the heart, lungs, stomach, liver intes-
tines, etc. ’
Get those unseen muscles toned up, and the sur-
face muscles will rapidly increase in proportion.
The surest and safest way to improve the unseen
muscles is by means of Health Exercises—exercises
which drive a copious supply of rich, virile blood
throughout the system—nourishing the whole system
with oxygen, expelling waste tissue, building up new
tissue, benefiting every part of your body.
Such results can only be secured by Exercises
based upon scientific lines—exercises specially de-
signed to accomplish that purpose.
The BAKER POSTAL COURSE OF HEALTH
EXERCISES consists entirely of good exercises
based on those lines, and have been tested and
proved by experience.
Here is an example of the excellent results they
are achieving.
“The last lot of exercises did me an awful lot of
good, and suited my case admirably.”
A. C. F., Coonamble, N.S.W.
You will also benefit by such good exercises.
Why not write for fuller information,
Health and Strength from Self Culture?
fees etc., as given in my illustrated 48-page booklet,
There’s a copy waiting for you. Write for it to-day.
REG. L. ( “Snowy”) BARER
249 Belmont Building's,
CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Three Crown ” Manila
Cheroots and
Cigars.
m.
:
m
■W?
The quality of these Manila
Cigars and Cheroots is every-
thing that can be desired, and
yet, in spite of their choice
quality they are low in price.
They are very mild smokes.
Send for a box.
No. 1 Cheroot
(as illustrated).
In boxes of 50’s, 14/-;
27/6 per 100.
No. 2 Cheroot
In boxes of 100, 21/-
CIQARS.
PERLAS.—In boxes
of 25’s, 6/-.
lirCH LIFE.—In boxes
of 50’s, 24/- per 100.
LONDRES. —In boxes
of 100’s, 18/6.
P E RFECTOS—In
boxes of 25’s, 10/-
My Catalog illustrates
a Very Choice Range
of Cigars, Tobaccos ,
Cigarettes, etc. Send
for a Copy. Post Free.
Actual Size.
A. M. SOLOMON,
CIGAR EXPERT,
173 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
BEST RESULTS
ASSURED ON
‘SHELL’
BENZINE.
The British Imperial Oil Co. Ltd.
r/*£
*«T3 INVM-
gives health and
strength to all
ages, from the
infant to the
aged.—Ready for
use, it requires
no cooking, and is
delicious to taste.
0/ all Chemists
and Stores.
RIGHT-MADE SHOES FOR
MEN ! !
The first essential of a satisfactory pair of
shoes is COMFORT. Combined with this
they must be of good appearance, made in
a first-class manner, and of the best
materials.
It is this combination of merits which have
made
RIGNEY SHOES
so popular and satisfactory.
The illustration shows a very choice Russia
Calf Bal., Close Welts, Light Sole, Guaran-
teed Hand Sewn. One of the famous
“Rostock’s” (English Made) Shoes very
exclusive shape—a shoe for gentlemen.
Price 3 51-
Postage 9d. extra.
Write for a Catalog.
1
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.,
“The Men’s Exclusive
317 George Street and
And at City Buildings,
High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY,
Edward Street, BRISBANE.
JJK
All Athletes
Use
BOSISTOS
* PARROT
BRAND *•
EUCALYPTUS OIL.
s
m
\~V
.. - S: i
■i" ’ .
■■■—
Bosisto's •* Parrot Brandi ” Eucalyptus Oil,
the Famed Remedy for Rheumatism, Sprains,
Bruises, Wounds, Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis
p*
ss
“VERIBEST” SHIRTS.
STYLES FOR HOT
WEATHER WEAR.
‘ Veribest” on a shirt is a Guarantee of Highest Grade
Materials, Expert Cutting and Careful Manufacture —“Veri-
best” Shirtings represent the Pick of the Products of the
English and Continental Markets, and the designs are exclu-
sively “Ours.” “Veribest” Shirts are made in our Own
Workrooms, and are all fitted with the Cuff-Saving, Comfort-
Making Strap-and-Button Sleeve Lift.
"Veribest” Shirts, 3/6
In Fine White Matte —
with Collar and Breast
Pocket —splendid for sport-
ing wear and general use
in hot weather.
In White Cellular
Material, 4/6
In Heavy Jap Siik .... 13/6
Style as shown or with
Plain Neckband, for wear
with Detachable Collars
(latter 1/- each).
“Veribest” Shirts, 2 9
In Untearable Scotch
Twills and Pampas Shirt-
ings—guaranteed Fadeless
and Unshrinkable. Collar
and Pocket. For working
and knockabout wear.
Light in weight, but with
great capacity for service.
Good-looking patterns—
also in' qualities at 3/6,
4/6.
“Veribest” Shirts, 6/6
In Oxford, Cambric and
Zephyr Shirtings—showing
the popular white ground
and fine stripe effects.
Hade with Unstarched
Front and Soft Gauntlet
Cuffs—the most sensible
style for Summer wear.
Collars to match Shirts or
in white Oxford, 9d. each.
All Colors guaranteed
Fast.
POST YOUR ORDER NOW!
and any of the Shirts quoted above will reach you by return—
freight paid. When ordering send size of Collar worn.
Lincoln, Stuart & Co. Pty. Ltd.
“Mail Order Tailors and Outfitters,”
244=254 FLINDERS STREET MELBOURNE.


w
l
Do you
enjoy life ?
Your work, your thoughts, social intercourse,
and the exercise of your physical strength—all
these should be a joy to you in the springtime of
the year. Worry, sluggishness, indifference, and
depression are all a question of health—health’s
everything !
Take a half-teaspoonful of Kriischen Salts in
a tumbler of hot water, when rising, for a few
mornings and note the difference. Worries
disappear, indifference vanishes and depression
gives way to a feeling of confident optimism—
health’s everything !
Kriischen Salts are
your best aid to health.
Kriischen Salts remove all impurities from the system and
stimulate the healthy flow of the natural Juices of the body.
Kriischen Salts contain phosphorus, the nerve food, in an easily
assimilable form ; they have an adequate amount of Sodium
and Magnesium—the cathartics or body-scavengers; and they
possess a rich proportion of Potassium, the vital tonic food of
the tissues.
Kriischen Salts correct all Liver and Kidney troubles,
Indigestion, Constipation, and remedy Gout, Rheumatism,
Lumbago and the evils of Uric Acid. Kriischen Salts have
won the admiration of the medical profession—and the gratitude
of those countless sufferers who have found in their natural
tonic properties an easy road to exuberant health.
Not a fizzy drink.
Kriischen Salts are not effervescent, and therefore do not
cause flatulence. They can be taken with perfect comfort by
the vast number of people whom gaseous and aerated mixtures
do not suit.
Kriischen Salts do not spur the body to any unnatural
activity; they help it to perform its natural functions by
supplying the salts which are essential to health.
Of all good chemists, grocers and stores throughout Australia.
Liebig’s
Analysis :
Soda Sulph.
Soda Chlorid.
Soda Phosph.
Magnes. Sulph,
Magnes. Chlor.
Potas. Sulph,
Potas. Chiorid.
Wholesale Distributing Agents :
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR,
287-289, Clarence Street,
Sydney.
Sole Proprietors:
E. GRIFFITH HUGHES (KRUSCHEN) LTD.,
68, Deansgate Arcade, Manchester, England.
One Size.
One Price.
2/-
Per Bottle.
PACK SADDLES
That are the outcome ot long experience,
and the shape has proved to be comfort-
able to the Horse while travelling.
The Saddles are hand sewn throughout, made with
hand-stuffed leather. The Trees are guaranteed
strong, the Boards are bolted on; should the boards
be accidentally broken new ones can easily be re-
placed.
Mounted with Girth, Surcingle, Side-straps, Breech-
ing and Breast Collars. Sizes: 16in., 18in., 20in.
and 22in. Trees.
Your inquiry for price, etc., will have our imme-
diate attention.
L. Uhl & Sons Ltd., Petrie Bight, Brisbane
Give a sense of security which carries
the user confidently over the roughest
roads by night or day.
1
„
253151
__
AVON Products include the following Articles
MOTOR,
MOTOR-CYCLE 8
CYCLE TYRES,
in many qualities
and patterns.
Specially suited
for hard Colonial
use, on account of
their renowned
durability.
C T C L E-C A It
TYRES for all
types of this popu-
lar new vehicle.
SOLID TYRES
FOR MOTORS,
etc.
Steel Band Type
for ’buses and other
heavy vehicles.
Clinched-on type
for lighter vehicles
up to 2 tons.
Carriage Tyres,
’Rickshaw Tyres,
Trolley Tyres, etc.
GOLF BALLS.
Made up on a spe-
cial centre which
forms the nucleus
for the winding of
Para tape.
Avon, 2/-; Nova,
1/3; Arc, 1/-
(Several types).
Strip for insulating,
golf-ball making,
etc.
Compounded Rub-
ber and Proofed
Canvas for tyre re-
pairs.
Heel Pads in vari-
ous patterns.
MECHANICAL
RUBBER GOODS
FOR RAILWAYS,
etc.
Buffer and Draw-
bar Springs, Vac-
uum Pipes. Dia-
phragms and other
Brake Materials:
Body Fittings:
Valves; Hose, etc.,
specially adapted
for use in the
Tropics.
THE AVON INDIA RUBBER CO., LTD.,
/Cable Codes: — A.B.C. sth Edition \
' and Western Union.
MELKSHAM Wilts., ENGLAND.
Branches at London, Bristol, Birmingham, Manchester, Glasgow and P»”
AUSTRALIA: H. C. Panifex, Melbourne, Victoria; Fothergil & °**
Mouatt Street, Fremantle. d
NEW ZEALAND: Guinness & Le Cren, Waimate, Agents for Av°n . o
Motor Cycle Tyres & Accessories; Grapes & Riley, Agents forA .
Tyres for Commercial Vehicles, Mechanical Rubbers and Golt .
A Great Occasion and the Importance
of Rising to It.
Five years ago a portion of the United
States Navy trailed impressively into Syd-
ney Harbor. Australia had no fleet of its
own to make a fuss about in those days.
The British cruisers and so on, which looked
in periodically for the different race-meet-
ings provided the minimum of inspiration.
In the first place, they were admittedly
weak and out-of-date samples of their class,
and, in the second, they were hired. The
human heart is incapable of swelling, to
any extent worth mentioning, over any hired
circumstance, from a home to a dress-suit.
The visit of the United States fleet provided
an outlet for a sentiment that a big section
of the community was starving to express.
Rightly or wrongly, Australia decided to
regard all this grim foreign outfit as
the Commonwealth’s bulwark, in some sense,
against the growing might and arrogance of
Asia —a feeling that for various obvious rea-
sons it had never been able to cherish seri-
ously in regard to the British Bullmongery.
Sydney took the fleet to its vast and hos-
pitably beer-drenched chest, in much the
same spirit of hungry devotion as some
lonely old maid might mother a pretty child.
Never were visitors given such a reception.
Countless thousands crowded the headlands
of Port Jackson to watch the vessels steam
in. More thousands thronged the streets and
cheered the newly-arrived mariners, whose
weird divergence in the matter of hue pro-
vided such a crushing argument in favor of
a White America. Officers and men alike
were publicly feted at the Town Hall and at
the different theatres. The populace frater-
nised with the A.B.’s, filled them up with
alcohol, and in other respects did everything
imaginable to make them feel that they had
reeled among friends. The fleet which will
enter the Heads next Saturday represents
the fulfilment of an aspiration that, five
years ago, was derided, by the people who
now call themselves Liberals, as wildly im-
practicable. It stands out, therefore, as a
stupendous achievement. But it is more.
The vessels composing it are the latest words
in the way of naval architecture. Their
crews are all white, and mostly Australian.
And it is our own fleet, and designed for
the protection of our own country. If we
have any national self-respect whatever, or
the least vestige of imagination as a people,
we will give the Australian fleet —the
nucleus, maybe, of one of the greatest navies
in the world’s history—a greeting beside
which the welcome that was accorded to the
Yankee ships will appear dim and feeble.
At a casual glance the proposition appears
too obvious to be worth discussing. Unfor-
tunately, however, there is every need to
ventilate the subject. The papers have been
beating up subscriptions for the public en-
tertainment of the men for some weeks. At
the time of writing the Citizens’ Fund is
well under £2OOO. The Dreadnought imbe-
cility was responsible for the garnering in
of £50,000 in half that time. The me i ail
eholy fact is, the moneyed men of the com
munity are holding aloof from the impend
ing celebrations with astonishing unanimity
To most of them the Australian navy i s still
the scheme of a gang of Labor “disloyal-
ists.” They have never assimilated the fact
that the tactical value of such an arm is
recognised, now, all over the world. Thev
hold to their old, original gag that the
Empire can only be defended in the North
Sea. So little is to be looked for from them
This paper doesn’t take particular stock in
the flag-waving and speechifying that con-
stitute the bulk of the average official wel-
come. However, it is the only way of
according the glad hand in bulk that the
world has yet evolved, and if ever Australia
was required to extend that member, in the
most whole-hearted fashion possible, it will
be on next Saturday. If the more extrava-
gantly “Liberal” section of N. S. Wales
holds aloof, as they obviously mean to do,
it is all the more reason whv such patriots
as the State possesses should step into the
breach and get busy. Anything in the
nature of a half-hearted reception on such
an occasion as the first arrival, at this con-
tinent’s biggest city, of the beginnings of
the Commonwealth navy, will stamp Aus-
tralians as hopeless clods in the eyes of the
outside world.
One Marshall H. Hudson, of Maoriland.
has blossomed a few proposals for “a new
departure for the human race.” His scheme
is somewhat vague and hurried ; also, it is a
trifle scattered and indefinite; likewise a
copy of it can be purchased for 4d. Any
scheme for an ideal world is at least worth
84d. Hugh D. Mclntosh would probably
give more than that for a scheme for an
ideal Stadium, and Snowy Baker would
pay more than 1000 fourpences for an ideal
fight. But these men would, no doubt, want
a guarantee, and Marshall 11. Hudson
doesn’t offer one. His bald proposal is to
form associations based uu the doctrines of
Maltiius and the policy of New Australia
in Paraguay. He recommends that a num-
ber of unmarried young men and women
should club together—not club separately—
and obtain some freehold land. They are to
abstain from eating the flesh of quadrupeds
(including skunks, cabhorses circus ele-
nhants and bloodhounds). Then they are to
appoint a Fitness Committee, sort out the
fittest to marry and increase, and the unfit-
test to do the other thing. The most im-
portant job on the settlement is marked off
for the Fitness Recorder, who will get the
billet on a 55 per cent, majority of votes.
“It shall be his duty to examine and become
acquainted with the physical, mental and
moral conditions of all the new tribe... .and
award good and bad marks.... which shall
determine where each man or girl shall reside,
whether in the increase or the decrease settle-
ment.” When the writer is tired of life he’ll
apply for that position. Meanwhile, brother
Marshall H. Hudson can have it. It
looks a fatal job of the worst description.


to be won
with your Kodak
Kodak (Australasia) Ltd. offer a first prize of £lOO and 115
ot/ni cash prizes to those who can prove by means of 10 Kodak
snapshots that they have spent the Happiest Moments during 1913-14.
J- S’ 0 awa Y without a Kodak ! Don’t waste your holidays this year ! A
ho iday without a Kodak is a holiday thrown away, because you come home with
nothing to show for it.
And, besides, if you are happy enough, you can win with 10 jolly little
Kodak snapshots. Remember, you can learn to use a Kodak in half an hour.
FOUR HOLIDAY KODAKS.
To be had from all Kodak Dealers.
A Kodak for 30;
Vest Pocket Kodak—the newest and smallest
of the Kodaks^ —takes pictures 2\ x If inches
fits the waistcoat pocket. “Always with
you; never in the way.” Complete with
leather case 30/-
A Kodak for 50 j
No. la Folding Pocket Kodak —takes pic-
tures 4i x 2\ inches —springs open in a
second, ready for use without adjustment of
any kind. A very suitable Kodak for a
lady’s use. Only 50/-
A Kodak for —£3/12/6
No. 3 Folding Pocket Kodak —takes pictures
4i x 3i inches —the popular “quarter-plate”
size. Superior lens and shutter. A hand-
some Kodak, covered with seal-grain leather.
Price £3/12/6
A Kodak for £5 2,6
No. 3a Folding Pocket Kodak —takes pic-
tures x 3i inches —postcard size. Excel-
lent, rapid rectilinear lens —automatic
focussing lock —rising front. Fitted with
Kodak Automatic Shutter £5/2/6
And then, for the Children, there are Brownies, “little cousins of the Kodak,”
from 5/- up to 50/-
The Happy Moments Booklet will prove of great interest to you. It’s a happy
publication, and gives all rules and conditions of the great competition. You can
get a copy free from any Kodak dealer or from us.
TRfto
■
M'
Nothing Counts
but Happiness.
KODAK
(Australasia)
LTD.
Incorporating Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd.
SYDNEY: 379 George Street.
MELBOURNE: "The BlocR,” 284 Collins Street
ADELAIDE: 37 Bundle Street.
BRISBANE: 78-80 Queen Street.
TOOWOOMBA : Ruthven Street.
TOWNSVILLE: Flinders Street.
ROCKHAMPTON: East Street.
BROKEN HILL: 346 Argent Street.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. : 3 Lome Street.
WELLINGTON N.Z. : 6 Mercer Street.
Stewart Dawson 8 Co
(AUST.) LTD.
These exclusive designs in the New Styles of Engagement
and Dress Rings are procurable only from us.
D 3517. —Fine Dia-
mond and 18ct.
Gold RING, Plati-
num Circles and
Setting.
D 3515. —2 Fine
Diamonds in 18ct.
Gold and Platinum
Settings,
*9/10/-
D 3518. —Fine Dia-
mond in 18ct. Gold
and Platinum Set-
tings,
D 3813.—11 Fine
Diamonds in 18ct.
Gold and Platinum
Settings,
D 3812. —Fine Dia-
monds in 18ct.
Gold and Platinum
Settings,
DSSI6. —Fine Dia-
monds in 18ct.
Gold and Platinum
Settings,
£.14/10/-
D 3521. —2 Pine
Diamonds and 2
Emeralds in 18ct.
Gold and Platinum
Settings,
D 3520. —8 Fine
Diamonds and Em-
erald in 18ct. Gold
and Platinum Set-
ting,
£l5
We Pay Postage on all Goods to any address.
WRITE FOR A COPY OF OUR BEAUTIFUL ILLUSTRATED
ART CATALOGUE.
Strand Corner, 412 George St., Sydney.
AUSTRALIA : Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Pert .
NEW ZEALAND: Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, Duned. .
LONDON : 73 to 81 Regent Street, W.; and 19 to 21 Hatton ar en,
7a>6.
10-INCH
DOUBLE- SIDED,
2/6 each.
(New Zealand, 3/6)
12=INCH
DOUBLE= SIDED,
4(|- each.
(New Zealand, 5/6)
REXOPHONE.
Disc Records
are unequalled in Clearness of Reproduction, Natural Quality of Tone,
Volume and Durability by any other record at any price. We confidently
invite comparison by tests.
The Good Old Songs, the Up-to-date Ragtime and Comic Hits, magnificent Band
and Instrumental Music, Sentimental Songs. Hymns by the famous Cathedral
Quartette, are all -represented in the Rexophone Catalogue. Our artists include
all the favorites, including Billy Williams, Stanley Kirkby, Jessie Broughton,
Guido Gialdini, Phillip Ritte, Harry Cove, Tom F. Kinniburgh, Will Evans,
Robert Howe, The Savoy Orchestra, etc.
OUR SPECIAL OFFER. —We list herewith TWELVE of the most popu-
lar 10-inch Rexophone Double-sided Records, which we will supply,
securely packed in a handsome Rexophone Record Album, Post FREE
anywhere, on receipt of Money Order or Postal Note, for 35/- We will
cheerfully refund this amount to any dissatisfied customer.
Twelve Selected Popular Rexophone Records
5324.
/Wait Till I’m as Old as Father;
(Where Does Daddy Go? —
Billy Williams
5344.
/Everybody’s Doing It Now;
l Cubanola Glide —
Stanley Kirkby
5197.
/Alexander’s Ragtime Band;
\ The Eternal Waltz—
Rexophone Military Band
5308.
j Are You Going to Dance?
/ Tell Me, Pretty Maiden —
Bartle & Howe
5291.
Cohen at the ’Phone;
On Strike —
Howard Wordsworth
5368.
(Scatter Seeds of Kindness;
( What Shall the Harvest Ise? —
Cathedral Quartette
5388.
/ Shepherds’ Dance (Violin) ;
\Tesoro Mio Waltz (Violin)—
Savoy Orchestra
5G06.
When the Sheep Are In the Fold;
When Springtime Brings Roses—
Stanley Kirkby
5609.
/ Thora;
\ >lona
Phillip Ritte
5003,
/ Tin Tacks;
l Yachting—
Will Evans
5385.
r Count of Luxemburg, Part 1;
\ Count of Luxemburg, Part 2
Rexophone Concert Band
5047.
/ Liberty Hell March;
(.Stars ami Stripes Forever March —
Rexophone Military Band
Ask for our complete new Catalogue of Rexophones and Records. It contains
all records issued, also illustrations and descriptions of instruments from 37/6
to £l4.
Jacßson &, Macdonald,
457 Kent Street (Corner Druitt Street), SYDNEY.


&
>
S'
iri
i. a
■Hi
H
\^v
w
shr;
'i .s
\ x
STEVENS
Favorite, Marksman,
Crackshot, Little Scout
& Visible Loader Rifles
are highly suitable for every outdoor boy,
man and woman shooter. Unerringly accu-
rate —light, portable, take-down —made in
all standard small-bore calibres.
STEVENS TIIFLES, SHOTGUNS, PIS-
TOLS, are for sale by all progressive
Dealers.
Write for general Catalogs—detailed infor-
mation, etc., to
ARTHUR H. HILL,
Australian Representative for J. Stevens Arms
& Tool Company,
G.P.O. Box 86, Adelaide, South Australia. [8
* V
V 3 >
A.a4l
Underwear.
Don’t choose your underwear at random;
let reason be your guide.
Bay Jason for these reasons:
Jason is all pure Australasian-wool; is absolutely unshrink-
able ; is as soft as silk in wear; is most comfortable:
is perfectly fashioned; i 3 good wearing.
Once you haye worn Jason you \v 11 real se how comfortable underwear
be. And you have the makers’ guarantee—if any garment
shrinks it will be replaced free of cost.
Jason Underwear is made in all styles and prices for men,
ladies and children. Infants’ r Pttre White Wear in light
and medium Weights. Jason Jerseys for children wear
splendidly. If your dealer does not stock Jason insist
upon his getting it for you.
In case of difficulty, write
JASON UNDERWEAR CO., Leicester, England.
>»
THE LONE HAND
for GOOD STORIES 8 BRIGHT ARTICLES.
PRICE, SIXPENCE.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murrays English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky
Dogs Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
WILL ANDRADE for PLAYS.
F
AMOUS
ARCES
REE-ACTING
II-
Contents —
Area Belle
Betsy Baker
Box and Cox
Ici on Parle Francais
My Turn Next
Rough Diamond
That Rascal Pat
Turn Him Out
All these are IN ONE
VOLUME for 1/-
(posted 1/1).
New American Joke
Books illustrated: Hot
Stuff Jokelets, 1/1;
Polite Vaudeville, 1/1;
After - Dinner Stories,
1/1; Hebrew Jokes,
1/1; Stage Jokes, 1/1 ;
Irish Jokes, 1/1; Talk-
alogues, 1/1 ; Jokes
Without Whiskers, 1/1 ;
On a Fast Train, 1/1 ;
On a Slow Train, 1/1 ;
With a Bum Show,
1/7; Mustard Plasters,
1/7 ; The 125 Best Card
Tricks, 1/8; Brough's
Secret of Stage Make-
Up, 1/4 ; Comic Recita-
tions, 1/1 ; Hypnotism,
Mesmerism and Clair-
voyance, 1/1 ; Amateur
Conjuring Book, 7d.
EASY CONJURING TRICKS.
32$
Mention The Bulletin.
Diminishing
Cards.
Ordinary
Playing
Cards, which
are apparent-
ly ‘squeezed’
smaller and
smaller till
they dissolve
nltoge t h e r.
Complete,
with full in-
structions;
anyone can
work them.
29,
posted 3/-
Other Easy Card Tricks are:—(l) Wizard of the
North, and (2) The Two-from-Five, 6d. each-
posted Bd. Above 3Tricks, post, free anywhere All
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.'Id ’
Stamps orPostal Notes of any State will do.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Catalogues
FREE.
201 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
Works s Birmingham, England
These series -of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
For general use
The ‘ALLENBURYS’ Diet is a
complete and easily digested food.
It is pleasant to take, readily assimilated and speedily restorative. Whilst
helping the system to recover its tone and vigour, it forms an ideal food
for general use. Prepared from rich milk and whole wheat in a partially
predigested form.
Made in a Minute
—add boiling water only—
ALLEN & HANBURYS LTD.
LONDON, ENGLAND
and
MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
K. >
isL
LADIES! You Want
a CLEAR SKIN.
IT
iihhli
fwFFI
' V
by purifying the blood, removes
ugly blemishes and leaves the
skin clear and healthy.
A regular dose of “GOL-
CRYST” keeps the blood in
good order, and makes one
bright.
Free Sample posted by Rocke,
Tompsitt & Co., Melbourne.
PACKETS, 3d., 6d. and Is. *
58.18231
,N.l34sj_j
THE VERY LATEST!
The Last Word in Oil Tractors
is undoubtedly
“MARSHALL”
OUR Principals (Messrs. Marshall Sons & Co., Ltd.)
have spent a huge sum of money to perfect and place
on the market
The Only Successful and Reliable Oil Tractor.
Many so-called Oil Tractors recently sold in this State are
now ‘ ‘ OUT OF COMMISSION ’ ’ Or FILLING UP SOME GAP IN
THE farm FENCE, but the “MARSHALL” is demon-
strating all over the World its claim to the title of
“The World’s Champion Oil Tractor.”
MADE IN TWO SIZES—
Class E equals 16 ordinary farm-horse
power, 30 to 35 B.H.P.
Class F equals 32 ordinary farm-horse
power, 60 to 70 B.H.P.
Fitted with Two-speeds, Winding Drum, Awning, Plowing
Draw Bar, in addition to Hauling Bar.
USES ORDINARY KEROSENE AS FUEL.
SEND FOR CATALOGUES. CASH OR LIBERAL TERMS.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO. LTD.
The Engineers Depot, CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.


Style and
Quality
are the predominant features
of Abbey Shoes. Add to these
their distinctive, made-to-order
appearance, and yon have the
principal reasons why men of
discrimination select Abbey
Shoes.
The boot illustrated is a Patent
Golosh Bal.. Dull Calf Leg,
Perforated Golosh, 27/6 and
30/-
Also, in Tan Willow Calf,
22/6, 25/- and 27/6.
Postage extra.
In half-sizes and quarter-fit-
tings.
Write for a Catalog.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
m
mmk
: • ■ -
Be Ever Youthful
The greatest
enemy to a
youthful
appearance
is
Grey Hair.
This can be
overcome by
using
MARIE Permanent
HAIR STAIN
( Registered)
The latest and best scientific discovery for
restoring grey or faded hair to its natural
color. Guaranteed not to washj wear or
rub off. Is not affected by sea air or surf-
ing ; proof against humid or damp atmos-
pheres. Is not greasy ; never varies in
shade or goes patchy; is non-injurious; leaves hair soft,
silky and brilliant; aids growth, and is permanent.
PRICE 10 6 ; Postage 6d. extra. Sold in four shades.
Light Brown, Medium Brown, Dark Brown and Black.
Free Test given to all who call at my Salon. Money
returned if hair not permanently stained.
Prepared and Sold only by
MARIE VAN BRAKKEL, Ladies’ Hair Specialist
Only Address : 46 CASTLEREACH STREET, SYDNEY
Register all Letters. (Opposite Hotel Australia).
One of Two Things
The Edison Storage Battery increases the
effective mileage of Electric Vehicles or re-
duces the weight of the vehicle.
This is because, for each pound of weight, it
gives an active service which is twice the
watt output that a lead battery is capable
of giving in active service of only one year.
Such a tremendous advantage can be
upon to reduce the total weight of the
vehicle as well as that of the battery itself.
Or to secure an increased mileage -either or
both—within motor-voltage limitations.
These Batteries have been tested under severe
conditions with heavy loads for a period of
three years, which in itself should be suffi-
cient guarantee of their dependability.
Write us stating purposes you need Storage
Batteries for, and we will promptly supplv
all particulars.
The EDISON
THOMAS A, EDISON LTD.,
Dept. B, 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
Better late than never, say men,
Better never late, says Big Ben.
BIG BEN has some-
thing to say to peo-
ple who like to get up
promptly in the morning.
He guarantees to call
them on the dot whenever
they want and either way
they want , with one pro-
longed steady call or with
successive gentle rings.
And he guarantees to do it
day after day, year after year ,
if they only have him oiled
every year or so.
Big Ben stands 7 inches tall. He’s
massive, well poised, triple plated.
His face is frank, open, easy to read
■ —his keys large, strong, easy to
wind. He’s two alarm clocks in one
—a long alarm ringing for five min-
utes continuously, an intermittent
alarm ringing for ten minutes at
half-minute intervals.
Big Ben is made in La Salle,
Illinois, U.S.A., by Westclox. His
price is 12/6, postage 1/- extra. If
you cannot find him in your town,
send a monev order to the makers’
Australian office, Westclox, 63 Pitt
Street, Sydney. They will have
one mailed to you by the nearest
jeweller. If you have him oiled
every other year there’s no telling
how long he will last.
The World is its Kingdom.
North, South, East, West, the
acknowledged Best Pencil is
L.&C. HARDTMUTH’S
KOH-I-NOOR
\\y 1 ' T ' ] ‘Jj/‘
PENCIL
From all parts of the World come the
materials with which the “ Koh-i-noor ”
is composed ; to all parts of the World
goes the completed pencil—perfected by
patent processes, matchless skill and 125
years’ experience in pencil manufacture.
Made in 17 degrees and Copying.
From Stationers, &c., everywhere.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, Ltd,
Koh-i-noor House, LONDON, ENGLAND.
(Australia: 350, George St., Sydney.)
til*
Good Tools at "
Low Prices for the
Engineer, Plumber or Tinsmith
Few houses specialise in the above —Danks’ do. Our Tools
facilitate good work, save you undue effort, and cost you
less money. Orders through the post receive careful atten-
tion —please add estimated postage or carnage, to prevent
delay.
These few items show the advantages of buying from a
Speciality House. Mention this paper.
Electricians’ Insulated
Pliers 2 / -
Electricians’ Insulated
Screwdrivers .... 1/4
Tape Measures, in
Case, 66ft., from 1/6
Plumber s’ Bench
Vices, from .... 2/-
Plumbers’ Pipe Vices 2/6
Disstons’ Plumbers’
Saws, with one
edge for cutting
wood and one for
cutting iron, spe-
cial value 4/p
Plumbers’ Wood Tools in
full assortments.
Extension Hack Saws.
Stocks and Dies from best
makers.
Files for sharpening.
Metal-cutting Saws.
Wrenches, for all purposes.
Tinman’s Stakes and Hick
Irons.
Emery Wheels.
Brass Steam Fittings.
Treadle Grindstones, with
ball-bearing fittings.
Tube and Pipe of all kinds,
etc., etc.
JOHN
PROPTY.
DANKS
CSL son
LIMITED,
THE METAL-WORKERS* HOUSE.
324 Pitt St., near Liverpool St., Sydney. 391-399 Bourke St., Melbourne.
The N.S.W. Fruit Exchange Co-opera-
tive Co. (Sydney) :
To Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1903 .. £902 10 p.c.= £250 £652 £7,621
1904 . . 1027 10 „ „ 406 621 8,142
1905 . . 1386 10 „ „ 500 886 9,028
1906 . . 1397 10 „ „ 500 897 9,925
1907 .. 1498 >'lo „ ~ 500 998 10,923
1908 .. 1551 110 „ „ 500 1051 11,974
1909 . . 1778 12i „ „ 625 1153 13,127
1910 . . 1908 12| „ „ 625 1283 14,410
1911 . . 2318 20 „ „ 1000 1318 15,728
1912 . . 1954 20 „ „ 1000 954 16,682
Reserves transferred to capital, £15,000.. 1,682
1913 .. 2471 7\ p.c.= 1500 971 2,653
This little co., whose chairman is Thomas Jessep,
the more-or-less-ex politician, has at one pop in-
creased its capital from £5OOO to £20,000 by
transferring reserves; so the 7i p.c. div. is really
equal to a gaudy 30 p.c. on the money actually
paid. The revenue comes from a Sydney market at
which stands or stalls are hired out for daily or
weekly rent. At one time it was thought the muni-
cipal markets would knock out the Private Enter-
prisers ; but they haven’t. The premises are com-
paratively new ; still they are depreciating, and out
of gross profits a replacement fund should be built
up. Until that is done the profits are over-stated.
To build its market the co. borrowed ; but the plaster
is being quickly shifted
1905. 1911. 1912. 1913.
Debentures and other
debt .. .. £15,182 £11,020 £10,552 £7llB
Liquid assets .. 9 3,046 3,532 1526
Excess of liabilities £15,173 £7,974 £7,020 £5592
The present principal debt ( £7000) is on mort-
gage, and the co. has undertaken to pay off £5OO
a year. It shouldn’t be a bother.
* * * *
Goulburn Gas Co. (Goulburn, N.S.W.) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
Dec., 1907.. £1097 15 p.c. = £750 £347 £9,676
June, 1908.. 1216 15 „„ 750 466 10,142
Dec., 1908.. 972 15 „„ 750 222 10,364
June, 1909.. 1117 15 „„ 750 367 10,731
Dec., 1909.. 872 15 „ „ 750 122 10,853
June, 1910.. 1090 15 „„ 750 340 11,193
Dec., 1910.. 412 15 „ „ 750 10,855
June, 1911.. 1081 15 „„ 750 331 11,186
Dec., 1911.. 851 15 „ „ 750 101 11,287
June, 1912.. 1174 15 „ „ 750 424 11,711
Reserves disappeared (apparently
distributed), £7982 .. .. 3,729
Dec., 1912.. 509 8 p.c. = 400 109 3,838
June, 1913.. 734 8 „„ 400 334 4,172
“The use of gas for street lighting will probably be
discontinued about March next, as the municipality
has decided to adopt electric light for this purpose,”
says the directors’ report; and shareholders can tell
themselves what that means. No doubt the public
will be invited to make use of the new light and
power in place of gas. Probably with this in their
minds, the directors thought it would be easier to
pay a dividend on £lO,OOO than on £20,000 ; hence
the recent distribution of reserves in cash. Alto-
gether, in view of this distribution of invested
money, and in view of the new competitor, and in
view, also, of the Gas Act, which may be made to
apply to this co. at any time, the past may be a
poor guide to the future. The business is likely to
settle down to something very sober, with nothing
brilliant for shareholders to look forward to, and
nothing disastrous to dread. Present surplus of
liquid assets is £1897, showing that the cupboard
was stripped pretty bare to make the recent dis-
tribution.
* * * *
The Perpetual Trustees, Executors
and Agency Co. of Tasmania (Hobart) :
Dividends and To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
1905 .. £1535 8 p.c. = £B4O £695 £6,638
1906 . . 1371 8 „ „ 840 531 7,169
1907 . . 1519 8 „ „ 540 679 7,848
1908 . . 1376 8 „ „ 840 536 8,384
1909 . . 1701 8 ~ „ 840 861 9,245
1910 . . 2395 9 „ „ 956 1439 10,684
1911 .. 2053 10 „ „ 1121 932 11,616
1912 . . 1308 10 ~ „ 1099 209 11,825
1913 .. 1607 10 „ „ 1066 541 12,366
The sums that the co. has been putting by have been
tidy considering that capital is only a modest
£10,000; and by reasoh of this accumulation the 10
p.c. should be more easily paid now than 8 p.c. was
10 years ago. . But if the interest earnings mount
up, there doesn't seem to be much increase in the
business. The Tasmanian field, of course, is small,
and it is pretty well covered, for besides another
local co. in the 'business there is a Government trust
office offering to nurse the dead man’s estate. Of the
capital and reserves, which offer a solid guarantee
to the co.’s clients, £5OOO is lodged with the Gov-
ernment, £5525 is on mortgage, and the balance
is in cash, or in property, or has been advanced to
estates under administration.
Central Zinc Co., an offshoot of the
Sulphide Corporation of Broken Hill: — Deficit
1909 .. Total loss to date .. £43,882
Dividends (5p.c.).
Paid Paid by
by Sulphide
Profit. this co. Corporation.
1910 £284 £7125 43,598
1911 ' ' 4910 7062 38,688
1912 . 6812 £3195 3617 • 35,071
1913 . . 9146 2778 4284 28,703
The Sulphide Corporation, now one of the most pros-
perous concerns in Australia, had a hard fight for
many years; and it had asked for help so often that
when it wanted to put up zinc retorts, so that it
might better argue the point with buyers of zinc
concentrates, it hadn’t the nerve to ask for more
monev on its own account. Hence this offshoot co.,
the Sulphide Corporation undertaking to guarantee
it a 5 P.c. div. for 10 years in return for a share
of the profits. That was in 1905. The early years
of the offshoot were full of disappointments. Then
a young Australian metallurgical engineer, J. C.
Moulden, was sent along to the works at Seaton
Carew, handy to the big English metal centre of
Middlesborough, and an improvement began to grad-
ually show itself. In 1910, when the Sulphide Cor-
poration was feeling much better financially and
otherwise, a new joint working arrangement was
made, under which the Central Zinc Go. takes
delivery of concentrates—its raw material—at Hartle-
pool instead of Broken Hill. Under t |)' s o arr f n Sf'
ment the Sulphide Corporation took £3195 of the
profit last year, leaving £3617 to be Paul under the
guarantee; and this year, assuming that the dividend
will be the same, the co. will have paid £4284 in terms
of the old undertaking, which expires in 1916.
Nominally, of course, the Sulphide C°rp. 1S stlll
paying the entire div., but it gets the help men-
tioned above out of the profits of the co.
The labor trouble was the big difficulty which
Moulden had to face when he took the job in hand.
Zinc-smelting isn’t the most pleasant job in the
world, and men were constantly coming and going,
and the new-chum at the job isn’t worth much.
Moulden, laving himself out to • make a permanent
settlement around the works, induced the co to put
up workmen’s cottages and let them for a trifle. Ihe
plan succeeded; one can judge that by the report
of a couple of years back: “Twenty further cottages
were added, and the value they have been can
scarcely be over-estimated. He also pulled the
strings to get a County Council school, and a post-
office; and such things. It was a new method of
managing smelting works, but the results, begin to
talk for themselves. So far, the business is still an
infant—the output last year was only 3067 tons of
spelter—but it looks to be getting on a firm founda-
tion ; and the by-products are now an important
help. The most valuable of these are the leady
residues, which are handled in a concentrating mill.
The co. in spite of its uphill fight, is in a very
fair financial position. At the end of the. ®
liquid assets were
cash), and liabilifles were £21,996.


_____ Shipping.
Pm and O. BRANCH SERVICE.
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Via MELBOURNE and ADELAIDE.
PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION AMIDSHIPS.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
LONDON £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 IBs., £l5 15s. & £l7 17s.
Tickets for return, via Suez (second-class), P. and
0. Mail, from £49 19s. to £53 11s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne: John Sanderson & Co., 11l William St.
Adelaide and Fremantle Agents: Geo. Wills & Co.,
Limited.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamer. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO.. Lta.,
l2 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Minimum
Deposit.
The Bank with
a Record.
£5OO
Interest
Limit.
is not necessarily an old Bank, although this
Institution can point to over 40 years’ satisfac-
tory service to the public.
Bunds now total over £20,000,000, behind
which is the Government guarantee.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
THE STATE SAVINGS INSTITUTION.
116 BRANCHES and OVER 500
AGENCIES IN THE STATE.
3*
Per
Cent.
Interest on
First £3OO
The Bank has
no Agencies at
Post Offices.
Head Office :
11 Moore Street,
SYDNEY.
J. H. Davies, Secretary
3
Per
Cent.
On Excess
to £5OO
™ e j|ank of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. ..£700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE. •
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK, LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and:THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
THE.
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. ..£2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,534
PAID-UP (30th June, 1913) ..£1,195,398
RESERVE FUND .. .. ... £25,000
HSAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS — Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man ; George J. Sly. Esq., LL.D.; Ciias. H.
Myles, Esq.; Mark Sheldon, Esq.; Arthur S.
Barton, Esq.; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid-Up .. .. .. 413,418 0 0
Reserve .. . . . . . . 142,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —-Jas. Munro, Esq. (Chairman) ; John
Cameron, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. ; Geo. Edw. Bunning,
Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON FIXED DEPOSITS.—
12 months, at the rate of 4 per cent, per annum ; 2
years and over, at the rate of 4} per cent, per annum.
HEAD OFFICE .... BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Colonial f|)utual Qife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance,' Endowments and
Annuities without . Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head O t F ijice :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Fund?, £3,445,00CL -
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £6,000,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ible. , i * j ,
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses eqffit&'bly distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: ■
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
AT ORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD, N.D.L.
-LI IMPERIAL MAIL STEAMERS,
TO COLOMBO, SUEZ, NAPLES, GENOA, ALGIERS,
iTon:
SCHARNHORST
ROON
KOENIGIN LUISE
SEYDLITZ
ZIETEN ..
EREIDRIOH
DER GROSSE
ROON
8388
8174
10785
800."
8021
10771
8174
3 £ «-
OC«
£ U
S 5 E. s
O S
u ZZ ■
All Steamers fitted with Laundry.
FARES TO LONDON: 1., £7l/10/-; 11., £4O;
111., £l5 to £l9. RETURN: 1., £lO7/5/-; 11.,
£6O; 111., £3O/12/- to £37/16/
LOHMANN and CO., General Agents, 7 Bridge-st.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.), *
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE.
*The largest and Finest Steamer trading between
Australia and San Francisco.
Around World and Around Pacific Tours.
Steamers stop 24 Hours at Papeete—the
“Pearl of the Pacific.”
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
Shipping:-
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
Twin and Triple-screw Steamers.
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, about OCT. 22.
IVIED IC, 12,000 tons, about NOV. 12.
AFRIC, 12,000 tons, about DEC. 3.
Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
Only One Class of Accommodation-
Fares —Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0t0£24 3 0
London . . .. 19 0 oto 30 0 0
New York, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, etc., from 25 0 0
PAMPHLETS AND ALL INFORMATION ON APPLI-
CATION. Luggage Received Only on Day of Sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
in Australia.
Australian Steamships Line
UNSURPASSED PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Fast Passenger Steamers
Sail as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
•CAIRNS
(•Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports). J
NORTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Oct. 4
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne October 8
Leaves Sydney October 11
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne October 15
Leaves Sydney October 18
For
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping’ for
S.A. and W.A. ports).
SOUTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney October 4
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney October 11
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
ISLAND TOURS !
THE SOLOMONS!
For REST and HEALTH.
S.S. “ MINDINI ”
OCTOBER 18.
Brisbane, Tulagl, Aola,
Gizo, Falsi, Quadalcanar,
etc., etc.
£2O.
To PAPUA
(Via the Queensland Coast),
A CHARMING COMBINATION
TOUR.
NEW STEAMER—
“MORINDA”
(Maiden Trip)
NOVEMBER 3.
Brisbane, Cairns. Port
Moresby, Yule Is and,
Samarai, Woodlark Island.
£2O.
BURNS, PMILP & CO.
> Ltd., Head Office, Sydney.
BANK OF
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability -
NFW SOUTH
Established 1817.
DIRECTORS:
WALES.
£3,253,540
£2,250,000
£3,253,540
£8,757,080
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, Kt., M.L.C.,
President.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G.. M.T, C
AUDITORS: Shepheard Edgecliff Laidley, Esq., Alfred George Milson, Esq
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office-29 Threadneedle St., EC
335 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London Asrents
and Correspondents throughout the World.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on. Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THF
WORLD. J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-Up ..£1,750,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,630,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. 1,750,000 0 0
£5,130,000 0 0
DIRECTORS':
George J. Cohf.n, Esq... .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. .Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors! E. S. Cape, Esq., and F. W. Hixson, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 13 Bircliin - Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. H. S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies .throughout the world.
Bank of |)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Guarariteed Stock .. .. ..£1,000,000
Preference Shares .. .. „ .. 500,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
up .. .. .. .. . • 500,000
Uncalled Capital .. . . .. 500,000
Reserve Fund arid Undivided Profits 1,418,117
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea
land, Fiji, Great Bri
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-Up .. .. ..£538,307
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. .. 159,054
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock).. 76,500
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. -• ’ -
Gen. Man., Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents arid Correspondents throughout the World.
THE Best Stories written bv Australian
Writers appear in The Lone Hand
Magazine: • Price, 6d. monthly.
“LINSEED COMPOUND,” for Coughs and
Colds. Loosens phlegm, allays irritation.
A Whole Week Saved
SYDNEY to SAN FRANCISCO by the
Oceanic Steamship Company
10,000 tons, Twin Screw Steamers. 17 knots,
Classed 100 A 1 at British Lloyds.
CABINS DE LUXE with BATHS.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY—
April 4
May 2
i- w r> 6 , van ue accompnsneu
in 29 Days via Samoa, Honolulu, San Francisco.
RETURN TICKETS GOOD BY P. &0., ORIENT LINE
N.D.L., N.Z .S. Co. and S. S. & A. Co. ’
Tel. 2282 City. Apply— 44 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: — R
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS ; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S HAR-
BOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE’
thence to Tweed Heads—steamer to Murwillumbah’
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Bs. 6d. ; second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 2s. 6d. &
For Guide and all particulars apply:
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
Points
£*• sni/entorj
*. A
CAN 1 OBTAIN A PATENT?
The quickest way to ascertain
this, WITHOUT EXPENSE, is
to write to me describing your invention, enclosing
a small sketch where necessary. Nicety of drawing
is not essential; all that is necessary at first is to
give me YOUR IDEA.
I will at once inform you whether the idea is
patent-able, and, if so, give the necessary instructions
for further procedure.
Persons desirous of obtaining reallv reliable advice
or information regarding Patent matters are cordi-
ally invited to consult me personally or by letter. In
all cases a careful consideration of their plans', an
honest opinion, and & prompt replv may' be
expected.
A. J. CALLINAN, Patent Attornev,
Citizens’ Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIPCO
(LIMITED). ’
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
T.S.S. WANDILLA (8000
tons), fitted Wireless
Telegraphy, Saturday,
October 25 and Novem!
ber 22.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
T.S.S. YVARILDA, (8000'
tons), fitted Wireless
Telegraphy, October
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL A CO.. LTD..
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA\
Via FIJI AND HONOLULU.
CANADIAN - AUSTRALASIAN Rtf
LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway. •'
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to P^NGLAND*
AROUND THE WORLD TOURS,.
FIRST AND SECOND CLASS.
SAILINGS :
’New triple-screw steamer, fitted with cab’ns-de-
luxe en suite, Nursery, Laundry, Electric Lifts, etc.
Ail Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Federal & Shire Lines
Adelaide to London In 34 Days,
VIA SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. SHROPSHIRE .
12,500 Tons.
BRISBANE . .
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE ..
FARES
Saloon.
£4O to £45.
CAPTAIN PRENTICE.
.. OCTOBER 17, 1913
. . OCTOBER 22, 1913
.. OCTOBER 29, 1913
. . NOVEMBER 4, 191?
TO LONDON.
Third-Class.
£l6 16s. to £lB 18s.
Saloon Fares from Brisbane, £2 extra.
Steerage, £l/1/- extra.
The Saloon accommodation consists of two berth',
cabins on the Upper Deck, situated amidships-. Well-
lighted and ventilated Cabins, and spacious Decks..
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provi-
sions from cool chambers throughout the voyage..
Electric Light throughout.
Return and Round Trip Tickets issued via Cape,
and (or) Suez route. Prepaid passages arranged.
FITTED WITH WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY.
Successful vaccination certificates and signed sur-
veillance forms must be presented before passengers;
from Brisbane or Sydney can be booked.
For illustrated pamphlets and full information,
apply—
BIRT & CO., LTD., Svdney and Brisbane.
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & CO. PTY., LTD.,
Melbourne and Newcastle.
ELDER SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
H. JONES & CO., LTD., Hobart.
Hvddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“ Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“Ulimaroa,” "Wimmera.”
"Riverina,” “Victoria
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy*
Maintaining regular services betweem
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
A.U.S.N. Go. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
♦T.S.S. “ INDARRA ”
*T.S.S. “ KANOWNA”
♦T.S.S. “ KYARRA”
♦T.S.S. “ LEVUKA”
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA’’
S.S. “ WYANDRA”
...10,000 tons
... 7000 tons
... 7000 tons
... 6500 tons
... 6500 tons
... 4500 tons
’Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Winter Tours to Cairns and Fiji are highly recom-
mended for the salubrious climate and beautiful
scenery, and Tourists will find that the A.U.S.H.
Coy.’s steamers possess all up-to-date arrangements
for convenience and comfort, making travel safe,
easy and pleasant. After first port of call First ana
Second Saloon Tickets are interchangeable with an
Interstate Companies, also with the Union S.S- Coy.»
steamers in the Fiji Trade; particulars on applica-
tion. For dates of sailing see Daily Papers. Ass
for a Printed Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP S COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.


Hotels, fi T c.
Mu
ii
I'lt
George hotel
St. Hilda, Melbourne,
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 13/- per day.
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It is
the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
-T. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Gent.’s
Aertex
Cellular
Combinations.
SINGLET and
TRUNK DRAWERS.
White 6/6 Free
The most comfort-
able form of
Underwear, am d,
being of Aertex
Cellular, the
most healthy.
Made also in other
plain and fancy
Cottons, Lisle
Threads, Woollens,
and Silks.
When ordering
state height and
size of chest.
Aa N N s T w - DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
76 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
(Next door to Farmer’s.)
Williams’ Holder Top
Shaving Stick.
This is the good old
Shaving Stick known to
every gentleman
in Australia, but
now presented in
a new and attrac-
tive form, greatly
enhancing it s
convenience and
economy.
Vour chemist will be glad
to show it to you.
DOES
Skill cockroaches!
PROCURABLE FROM:
George Gough & Son, Ltd., Bris-
bane.
H. H. Grotli & Co., Sydney.
London Pharmacy, Ipswich, Q’land
G. R. Smith, Townsville, „
Lomas & Co., Warwick, „
Jack & Co., Dalby, »
Bryant & McLean, Roma, „
E. S. Hale, Bundaberg, „
Newbery & Shambler, Gympie,,,
Peak & Co., Toowoomba, ~
Williams, Ltd., Rockhampton, ~
Lamberts, Ltd., Mackay, »*
Alex. Campbell & Sons,
Maryborough, **
And all reliable Storekeepers throughout
Australasia.
Agents wanted in West & South Australia.
Write to GOUGH’S, BItISBAXE.
“LINSEED COMPOUND,” for Cough* and
Colds, Of proven efficacy for chest complaints*
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFIOE
Bank of Australia
BYDNEY
Branches are open for the transaction of GENERAL BANKING BUSINESS at
New South AVales—Sydney. Federal Capital—Canberra. Victoria —Melbourne.
Queensland —Brisbane, Rockhampton, and Townsville. South Australia —Adelaide.
Western Australia—Perth. Tasmania—Hobart. And at 36-38 NEW BROAD ST., London.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, foreign places direct. Foreign bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of credit and circular notes issued to any part of the world. Bills negotiated or
forwarded for collection. Banking and Exchange business of every description transacted within
the Commonwealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Interest paid on fixed deposits.
„ SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.
Branches are open at 3 Moore Street, Sydney; 317 Collins Street. Melbourne; Queen Street,
Brisbane; Royal Exchange. 96 King William Street, Adelaide; St. George’s Terrace,
Perth; Elizabeth Street, Hobart; and Canberra (Federal Capital); and J l9OO Agencies at
Post Offices which issue Money Orders in the Australian Commonwealth and Papua,
id olll 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily, and noon Saturday*.
All Branch Offices are open for deposits and withdrawals on Friday, 7 to 9 p.m.
Withdrawals on demand may be effected at any office within the Commonwealth.
T V- Minimum Deposit. 3 % Rate of Interest on all Deposits up to £3OO.
JAMES KELL, Deputy Governor. August, 1913. DENISON MILLER, GotpRNOR.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Hand Daws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queens-
land offers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars,
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
m
Championship Ammunition
YOUR choice in ammunition for a big match
is not apt to be influenced by claims or any-
thing but a thorough and successful try out.
And if it's an international championship nothing
will satisfy you but that make of cartridges which
you yourself have proven the most reliable,
Remington-UMC metallic cartridges have
been the choice of the winners of over a score of
the biggest matches held in the past two years.
Among these are:
World
World
World
World
World
World
World
s Five Man Team Record held by the Park Rifle Club 998 x 1000
’s Eight Man Team Record held by the Royal Naval Barracks Team 796 x 800
s Ten Men Team Record held by the Park Rifle Club
s Olympic Pistol Record held by A. P. Lane
's Individual Pistol Championship held by A. P. Lane
's Individual Duelling Championship held by A. P. Lane
's Smallest Group with any gun or ammunition made by J. Pepe
1985 x 2000
509 x 600
449 x 600
287 x 300
There are certain technical details in the manufacture
of Remington-UMC cartridges which we believe are
responsible for their success. May we send you an
explanatory booklet? Your name and address on a
post-card to-day will bring it by return mail.
Remington Arms - Union Metallic Cartridge Co.
Australian Agent, D. D. Bryant, P. O. Box 686, Melbourne
New York ? London
THE BEST STORIES written in
LONE HAND each month.
Australia appear
Price Sixpence.
Freedom, Ease 8 Comfort
The ...
WEIMAR
Skirt
Pat. 1274
24/5/’ll.
Stocked by
Leading
Mercers and
Outfitters.
Manufactured by
Welch, Margetson S Co.
Pty. Ltd.
THIS MEbKIME CHEST
SHOULD &E m
YOUR HOME
for iti« Bu»h
Home, where the medical
man may he miles away.
Medicine Chest Is .(ten «"« ™“*‘
.( saving life. " c*™'" l * d “‘ ***» We
f with calling in a doctor lor minor a.
pack a chest containing a remedy ,or °' d ”7
leading physician. THERt Md BrutM , •
•izzrjru ::s“£ r rr;
Carriage
Paid
Free Oder.—" The Home Medical
Bo#b *’ ftcttl Post Free to any
address. Write Ur It.
me.
mi MEMQINE SUPPLY
F. WMsort nsnuc.E.R
4-fcO QUEEfI ST. bWS&anL
" Lime -Frui t Jmoe.
Brings to your lips the juice
of the lime fruit.
It ts a drink that is always cooling and refreshing.
The children love it. Order a few bottles to-day.
Large supplies have been lately shipped
from London.
MONTS XJULA.T I* Hii Vt »B I—4lm lUnti^W
The “Dudley” Accor 4 '’on
Dudley Accordeon, No. 3.
lOiin. x sjin., Black polished Case 3 turned
Wooden Stops, 3 rows Bell Metal Reeds, 10-
fold, triple divided Bellows, 10 Bone Keys, 2
Nickel Basses, Leather handles. Post free, 25/-
THE
“Rozella” Mouth Organ
•• „W
O O O 0.0 Q o Q- o
THE QUEEN OF MOUTH ORGANS.
Plates of the finest non-corrosive alloy.
Reeds of Bell Metal, fitted and tuned by a
new process, ensuring accuracy of tune and a
rich, sweet tone.
Prices, Solo Model, 20 Reeds, 1/“J Solo
Model, 20 Reeds, Nickel Mouthpiece, 1/3;
Solo Model, 20 Reeds, Nickel Mouthpiece and
Metal Case, 1/6; Concert Model, 20 Reeds,
Nickel Mouthpiece and Metal Case, 2/-; Pro-
fessional Model, 40 Reeds, Nickel Mouthpiece
and Metal Case, 3/-.
SEND TO-DAY.
Post Free to any address in the Commonwealth.
A. p7syk.es,
272 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
ARE YOU
DEAF?
If you are deaf or going deaf, you will be glad to
hear of a simple and scientific device which restores
hearing, no matter how old you are. No mystery or
secrecy about it; we describe it fully, and explain
just how it acts. You use spectacles as sight magni-
fiers, and in the same way you use this sound magni-
fier to hear better. Unlike spectacles, the Wilson
Common-sense Ear-Drums are invisible and comfort-
able. No one can tell you are wearing them. They
rest the ear nerves by taking the strain off them
the strain of trying to hear indistinct sounds. What
a relief to have done with that tiring strain. Being
made of the softest Para rubber they cannot be felt
even when the head rests on a pillow. For the same
reason, a blow on the side of the head will not hurt
the ear. They protect the tender inner parts of the
ear, that are so sensitive, from cold winds, dust, sud-
den and piercing sounds. ~ _ ,
So that you may clearly understand how the Sound
Magnifiers restore hearing, we give an illustration of
one as it lies in the ear. You will notice that the
Sound Magnifier is shaped like a trumpet, and so con-
veys even the faintest sounds right to the natural
drum Being of the softest rubber, it cannot hurt
the ear. It fits the ori-
fice of the ear with pre-
cision and comfort. the
division that runs across
the mouth is to allow the
removal and insertion of
the Ear-Drum, and to
brace it.
The shape of the Wilson
Ear-Drum has been chosen
after years of experience as
the best adapt-
ed to carry the
faintest sound.
Of course, if
you have lost
the he a r ing-
nerve com-
pletely, or were
born deaf, we
cannot pretend
to cure you. Only a miracle could
do that, in spite of some of the
absurd claims made to-day. But
if you can hear the faintest sound,
do not despair. You will never
regret trying the Wilson Ear-
Drums. We have letters to show
you from deaf people in Australia
and New Zealand, who have been
cured, and you can be cured, too. You may wear
the Ear-Drums day and night, and take them out
whenever you wish. Children can wear them (we
have special sizes for children from six to twelve).
Even a child can insert and remove them without
the least danger.
The price is £1 (the fee for a doctor’s single
visit). This includes a pair of drums (they are only
sold in pairs), a fine nickel remover, and also an
inserter. After the first pair is bought you may pur-
chase a single drum at any time for Bs., but the
pair you get at first will last quite two years. Do
not ask for a trial pair. We do not send them out
on trial, and so they are never secondhand. Use the
Order Form below, and the Outfit will be sent you
at once, with the fullest instructions. Don’t delay,
but have the comfort of good hearing as soon as you
can.
ORDER FORM.'
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
103 Arlington Chambers,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please send me an Outfit containing a pair of
Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums, an Inserter and a
Remover, for which I enclose One Pound.
Name
Address
NOTE. —Send Money Order or Postal Note. If a
Bank Note or Sovereign is sent, you must register it.
*0
ft?*
0
/
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘ARABIS’
Egyptian Henna before all others; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale, of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive you. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardley on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.


Jjegal Notices.
In the Supreme Court of New Zealand.
Wellington District.
IN THE MATTER of The Trustee
Act, 1908, and
IN THE MATTER of The Public
Trust Office Act, 1908 ; and
IN THE MATTER of the estate of
George Tuck well formerly of Wel-
lington in the Dominion of New
Zealand but latterly of Sydney and
Cobar in the State of New South
Wales in the Commonwealth of
Australia, Laborer, deceased.
PURSUANT to an Order made by His
Honor Mr. Justice Cooper under Sec-
tion 74 of the Trustee Act, 1908, on the
second day of August, 1913, in the matter of
the above estate all creditors and others
(INCLUDING THEREIN THOSE
CLAIMING AS NEXT OF KIN OF THE
SAID GEORGE TUCKWELL) having
claims against the estate of the said de-
ceased are required to send in their claims
to The Public Trustee, Wellington, New
Zealand, on or before the 3lst May, 1914.
and in default of any such 1 clhims The
Public Trustee will on the last mentioned
date proceed to distribute the assets of the
said deceased having regard only to the
claims of which he shall then have notice.
DATED at Wellington, New Zealand,
this 2nd day of Auarust, 1913.
•T. W. MACDONALD,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office.
NOTEThe said George Tuckwell was
bv an Order of the said Court on the 23rd
March. 1911, presumed to be dead.. Ho was
a native of' Wellington and left to reside in
New South Wales. Claimants must for-
ward full particulars of the parents of the
said George Tuckwell. his brothers and
sisters, the date of his birth and a r<ssum6 of.,
his life, which information will be checked
with the true facts in the possession of The
Public Trust Office.
For the Country Horseman
The saddle here illustrated is expressly designed
for country use, for stock riding, etc., and is built
of the best materials throughout. If any of our
friends are requiring such a saddle they will find
this a genuine bargain.
It has a hogskin seat, a plated bar-tree, extra
long flaps, with points to buckle below. An economi-
cal feature is the skirt, which extends all rou^d'
and thus adds years of wear to the saddle by pro"
tecting its interior from /the weather. It has a
deep, “sweepy” seat, 4in. kneepads, nickel-plated
iron stirrups, and double buckle leather girth. The
pripe complete is £3/15/- Mention of The'
Bulletin when ordering will ensure your having a
leather surcingle given in free, and the saddle will
be forwarded freight paid. It is to be obtained
from J. J*. Talty, 388 Sussex Street, Sydney.
Martin’s Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. Ladies recommend
them. Be sure you get the gmiuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist,, .Sjj^thampton.*
35/- Post Free
Two-Piece Suits.
You can have this Suit in Grey
Navy with white hairline stripes,
Fawn, Brown Flannel to fit any
figure. State your _ size when
Ordering. We can give you the
same material, single-breasted style,
for 27/6, post free.
FINNEY’S,
The Big Block, BRISBANE.
IN
BANANA LAND
Besides sending to Germany for a bridge
which could easily be made in Queensland,
Ihe Denham Government has just given a
hint that it will offer every facility to the
foreigner to collar the job of supplying the
plant for the new State sugar mill at
Babinda. The Treasurer “will pay all charges
from the ship’s side,” says one clause in the
specifications ; also he will “pay all Customs
duties on goods manufactured in the United
Kingdom or foreign countries.” The idea
evidently is to get the foreigner to quote the
lowest possible price—not the Australian
landed price, but the price without Customs
duty or wharf charges, etc. —so that the tre-
mendous disparity between the Australian
and the foreign tenders may be flung at any-
body who presently asks why the foreigner
was given the job.
“Rangan”: That the ports of yesterday
are not to be the ports of to-morrow was
demonstrated in Brisbane lately. The new
coastal steamer Canberra was attempting
to turn, and, becoming wild at being ex-
pected to do it in less than its own length,
it ran amok. First it attacked two donkey
punts, a coal punt and a tender, and with
one swipe sent them scurrying with the
tide down the river, where they made attack
on the ferry, which fled for its life. Having
got rid of these, it made a hit at the sanitary
steamer, and for a few seconds Brisbane
held its nose. But Providence was kind.
Baulked, it sat back on the towline, which
snapped. Thus released, with a swish of
its tail it sent a tug, a coal hulk and a
tender banging up against one another, after
which it headed for the sea, with an inward
curse on all shallow and futile ports.
The Brisbane police the other day got a
fair instance of how the Pharisee makes his
(or her) thrills. Somebody signing herself
“Good-living Female” told the Commissioner
that, the previous evening, at 10.30 o’clock,
she had witnessed a mob of young fellows
surrounding “a struggling, shrieking
woman,” and the horror of the outrage was
such that the Good-living Female hadn’t been
able to close an eye in sleep that night. Of
course the Commissioner got to work, and
then found that the struggling, shrieking
victim was an unfortunate woman in a fit,
find the mob of young fellows who were com-
mitting the outrage were, in fact, helping
the unfortunate woman’s husband -to get
her into an ambulance. This sort of “out-
rage” is really so common that it wasn’t
much of a coincidence that, at about the
same moment, the National Council of
Women was petitioning Parliament to sup-
press the White Slave traffic —a probablv
quite imaginary iniquity so far as Queens-
land is concerned. The White Slave in this
country is the white girl who has been
pawned to by her wretched ancestors
for anything between £45 and £SO of Public
Debt. But what National Disarrangement
cf Women worries about her?
ABORALIAN VANITY.
THE MISSUS: “Fine girl that sister of yours, Mary Ann!”
MARY A NN: “My word! Mine tinkit we berry much, alike! ”
The last of a noted tribe of Bananaland
blacks has gone to the big corroboree. She
didn’t have a name: she was merely “Old
Woman” of the Kabba Kabbas. This tribe
came from the Keppel Islands (C.Q.), where
their burial trees and the bones of their
ancestors are still to be found. After
Progress got them down and trod on
them the Government stepped in and
took the balance to the mainland. They
left behind some pretty names, still applied
to the islands, and several swimming
records. When the remnant was taken to
the mainland, and informed that it was
never to go back, three or four took to the
water and set out on the nine-mile swim.
One was never heard of again ; but sharks
are so thick there that it was 10 to one he
did not give in through exhaustion. The
others were rounded up after a few days
and brought back. Finally they were landed
in the Government reserve at Durundur,
where “Old Woman” saw them all out.
The Title.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The British Church Congress recently discussed the
question of the title given to bishops. Some clerics
wanted to drop “My Lord’’; others did not. One
bishop said he had been addressed as “Your Royal
Highness.” No decision was arrived at. —Press item.
How shall the Bishop be addressed,
And how his dignity expressed?
’Tis surely, in these troublous days,
A matter vital.
When men and measures disappoint
And times are getting out of joint
’Twould comfort, doubtless, could we find
A proper title.
“My Lord” befits a churchly peer,
But gives the worldly room to jeer,
Because of pomp and vanity
It seems to savour,
And bears you back to days of old
When bishops fought in battle bold,
And wrestled oft with barons stout
For kingly favor.
Of course, ’twould never, never, do
If bishops were, like me and you,
Addressed by name without the old
Respectful handle;
And, if they trod this mortal scene
As simply as the Nazarene,
’Twould cause in circles orthodox
A dreadful scandal.
The gentle faith, the fashions old
That swayed the meek disciples’ fold,
Must yield, of course, to novel ways
As time advances;
You couldn’t run, in modern day,
A stylish church in such a way
As would have pleased the taste austere
Of old St. Francis.
So, if we’re forced to compromise
And drop “My Lord’s” imposing guise.
We’ll choose a form that’s bound to foil
The carping praters;
And so our worthy Bishop hence
Shall, far and wide, without offence
Be known to all his faithful as
“Most Noble Gaiters.”
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, September 27, 1913.
My Dear Tiiargomindah,—
Governor Macgregor led an expedition up
to Ipswich last week to inspect the jubilee
of the local Grammar School. Things have
changed since the days when he used to lead
exoeditions against the head-hunters in
Papua, facing barbed spears and other im-
plements of savagedom. Nowadays his time
is more or less spent in facing the imple-
ments of civilisation, which are corkscrews,
as often as not.
The Southport Carnival has taken many
of our Fashionables this week. George
Appel liberated the affair, and Mrs. and
Miss Appel heloed him do it. Mrs.
Ernie Baynes and Mrs. Stanley Chapman
also were conspicuous atoms of an admiring
crowd.
Under-Secretary Ryder retires this month,
after 50 years’ service. Mention was made
of the genial Under-Sec. in Parliament
yesterday, but nobody said that it was a
good job he was leaving the old stand.
Occasionally, my dear, even a politician
refrains from perjury.
Every railway station in the city was lit-
tered with confetti on Wednesday. Mar-
riages seemed to be in the air. Among the
newly clamped were Harold Noble, who
married Miss Cavanough, of Toowoomba,
and thereafter fled with his prize to Tweed
Heads; and G. W. Williams, of East Bris-
bane, who married pretty little Blanche
Owen. Commander Weatherill took a lead-
ing part in this last-named item.
This afternoon Mayoress Doggett fed the
delegates to the W.C.T.U. Convention at
Eschenhagen’s. The only thing visible
through the windows was a grey sheet of
rain. This was because Wizard Stone was
attempting to aviate at Ascot. Stone is
good as a drought breaker. The Govern-
ment ought to hire him, and advertise flying-
matches at all those places where rain
hasn’t been seen for years. His rotten
luck is sure to pursue him, and all the creeks
would be full, and the crops wondrous large
in consequence, and the pumpkin would be
like a moon.
To-day was to have been the opening of
the sailing season. One small tent was
set up at Newstead, and a brazen band,
which had been hired for the occasion,
arrived first and took possession. The pub-
lic was represented by nearly 12 individuals,
who stayed for about 10 minutes. But
the band played on. Several of the largest
yachts in the river were covered in with
tarpaulins, and, judging from the feminine
giggles that floated through the hatchways,
some girl creatures had declined to be done
out of their afternoon’s sail. Commodore
Tom Welsby had a party of men aboard
the Sunbeam, but it did not include the man
who prophesied a drought this year. Or if
it did, his corpse has not yet come to the
surface.
The rain is also to be blamed for keep-
ing good money out of the Hospital bank
account to-day. Two teams of veterans—
some of them quite 30 —had arranged to
play a benefit match at the Exhibition
grounds for the good of the institution, but
the deluge would have broken Noah’s heart.
Otto Bestman, with a fighting weight of
18st.-odd; Hoppy Bird, Gralton, St. John,
Butcher Oxlade, Peter Flannigan, the two
Carmichaels, Ikey Austin and a few other
ducks were noticed at various times in the
ponds that adorned the grounds.
This afternoon Mr. and Mrs. William
Thorne entertained as many as they could
find of the passengers of the good ship
Sunda, which made port here just 50 years
ago. It was on the 16th September that
it came into Moreton Bay, and William
Thorne was one of the passengers H P ~,
only a lad then, and some of his old k- 8
mates are drawing very near to their
anchorage. It was a happy little sratw st
and the anecdotes that were handed Dg ’
the festive board gave a very good
the history of this State. g sllce o{
Architect Robin Dods and his p, oHv
little American wife are desert™./ :B y
hamlet, and, about Christmas 8m? will
arrive in your village, to stav Cm 1
Prof, of Theological Engineering at om
Lm., and his wife, have bought the Dork’
residence at New Farmland will spend nt
of the Christmas vacation moving into h
R. Dods has done a lot for this place in
battling against the fashion that decrees
that a dwelling-house shall be a hideons
square box on tall and unsightly stump.
In your parts you dispense with the stuSSs'
but then you don t know the white ant
so well as we do. Dods’s ideal domidk
is a pleasant place, usually with a verandah
shaded with lattice, and a red-tiled roof
Anyone who fights ugliness is worth keeping
ni the State. Mrs. Dods will also be missed
She is a splendid organiser, and “eve,
societies will have a limp feeling about th.
drawn b ° ne D ° W that her sup P° rt is with-
. J° hn . McCormack and the little Iluxlev
girl with the silvery voice sang here last
Monday night, and then hurried northward
to cheer the citizens of Rockhampton
To-night the Irish tenor gave his last
concert in Brisbane, and next week goes on
to Toowoomba and the Downs, where C
wdl give concerts before returning to the
South. By-the-bye, John has unearthed or
has been unearthed by, a relative in Pitts-
worth. It is no less than a maternal uncle
an old identity of the district, who reioices
m , na “ e of Buchan. I don’t know
whether it looks any better on the south-east
end of a cheque.
The Lewis Waller-Madge Titheradge sea-
son is in full swing, and goqd houses have
been waiting for the curtain to go up every
ilight. Ihe lady has made a number of
tnends here. Lewis has been swinging an
energetic racquet on the Auchenflower
C 0^ rt ?-’ , a vigorous club on the
golf links. On Monday afternoon presi-
dent Guppies had all the visiting celebrities
at Auchenflower, where singer McCormack
violinist Mcßeath, Lewis Waller and his
brother, Edmund Waller. Beerbohm, and one
or two others, in flannels and a fine per-
piration,, pursued the bounding caddy and
the illusive ball, to say nothing of the peri-
patetic flask.
The Art Students gave a light refresh-
ment and heavy musical evening at the
rooms of the Queensland Art Society on
Ihursday night. The pictures in the last
exhibition still decorated the wall, and a
few palms added a touch of nature. Bud-
ding artists stood about and carefully studied
the vegetables.
Yours in a sodden spirit,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
. Queensland Railway Department’s car-
riages are often so dirty that pas-
sengers on one suburban line now carry
newspapers to sit upon, or provide them-
selves with rags for seat-cleansing purposes.
Extract from an episcopal oration at the
Brisbane Church Congress :
The recent sickening story of cannibalism from
i apua shows that the natives in that Possession pre-
sent a fine field for missionaries.
True. Every, cannibal in the world pre-
sents an opening for missionaries—fat ones
preferred.
The terrible climate up North evidently
kills so many people that grandfathers who
have somehow escaped death have to do
the riding at the local races. Otherwise
account or at Atherton
N.Q.) the other day Tom Kerr, a white-
whiskered second edition of Father Time,
lifted his 60 years into the saddle in five
races, and won two of them?


0
A
\SS
i
t’-T«
Itjy
» ..
W,
!k7>
m
i.m
j*.-
h tCz
V.'J AZW-
&
rr
C?j\
*
>?'t*- * ■’* ‘
SS ?3
i i:.A"f"
,v:'^
;*if-
if
Sx*
mycw
fi
ill
st^s
lits.w
r.w
’Vw;
eK&
SSi
Saffi
i®*
Hi
H
M-:,
-•••A/r’-c-i
litl
. -'in - ■ V.-J
V:.l* .A
IS
s-i;:
■<•■ *
ftsKS
wm.
Ws%&
ms:
-*V
~’£
hM
i:VS ; >
i
>K-.<
p§
BSS
. :• :VV .
A».'S
f:i<
ir;P Sf-I
'■.V v
•■/•:?
jf.s..
-' -.
■«> J.mSVSV
&
'a .•
3&
!«*S
'./ - * ■•
mm
m
' v.V
lIP
•> i ,•••';•
•iT
.ss 1
*'<s
s!
M
rs.r.'x
<:'■
tUii i
a a ■!
i si
I H Hi
i mi:
urn
PATROITIC
JAMES WA3SON «lC» I™
DUNDEE, SCOTLAND.
SYDNEY ADDRESS.36OKENT ST
d>


BABY
gained 14 lb.
This is not an unusual case
but just one of the thou-
sands in which SCOTT’S
brings new health, in-
creased weight and re-
newed strength.
“After suffering with pneumonia my
son had
wasted away to
skin and bone.
The Doctor then ordered SCOTT’S,
and my son rapidly gained in weight
and vitality. After four bottles he is
completely restored to health and has
gained 14 lb.”—(Signed) John King,
22, Bray Street, Erskineville, Sydney,
N.S.W. 28/6/12.
scorn
Emulsion
None is genuine unless it bears
the Fishman on the package.
Sa
JIB)
TRADE
MARK
ANTINEURASTHIN
NERVE AND BRAIN FOOD TABLETS are the
scientific result of the research work of the world’s
greatest authorities and specialists. They build up
the nervous system by a process of natural nutrition,
and the benefit gained is lasting and permanent.
Antineurasthin as a NERVE FOOD gives wonder-
ful results in physical and mental overstrain and ex-
haustion, and on account of its beneficial effect upon
THE BLOOD is invaluable in cases of Anaemia, Rheu-
matism, etc. Antineurasthin shows remarkable
effect upon THE PROCESS OF NUTRITION, and
marked and immediate benefit in complaints arising
from weak digestion, dyspepsia and malnutrition.
A FREE TRIAL
will be sent on. receipt of 2d. in stamps to pay post-
age by the wholesale distributor, H. A. Goddard, No.
3 Australasia Chambers, 406-414 Queen Street, Bris-
bane; or Branches: 194 Vickery’s Chambers, 82 Pitt
Street, Sydney; 9-15 Safe Deposit Buildings, Queen
Street, Melbourne; 3 Ellershaw’s Buildings, Cliff
Street, Fremantle; 213 Smeeton’s Buildings, Queen
Street, Auckland.
Serial No. 810. Guaranteed under the Pure
Foods Act of New South Wales by H. A. Goddard,
Sydney, to contain not less than 10 per cent. Pure
Lecithin. No. 810.*
An Excellent Field Glass
THE KEW
is a very high-grade
English - made Field
Glass of excellent
power, splendid defini-
tion, large field, achro-
matic lenses, solid one-
piece aluminium body,
Morocco Leather cov-
ered. KEW certificate
with each glass.
Solid Leather Case,
Post Free,
£5.
A. P. GREENFIELD 8 CO. LTD.,
OPTICIANS,
189*191 George Street, Brisbane, Q.
“AUSTRALIANS YET.”
By
CRANT HERVEY.
Verses of Vim for
Men and Real Australian
Women !
“Grant Hervey, the
ardent Republican leader
and most characteristic
of Australian poets, voices
the aspirations of a
strenuous democrat in a
way that would have de-
lighted the heart of old
Walt Whitman.” —London
Book Monthly.
Get These Ballads of a
Bigr Australian!
Autographed, with National Platform and
Literature of the Young-Australia Party, 4/0
post free, U.S.A. $1.25. From
THF YOUNG-AUSTRALIA BOOK STORE,
Box 81 P. 0., Casterton, Victoria, Australia.
Established 1847. «
AllcocKS
Plasters
Eagle Mark.
The Worlds Greatest
External Remedy.
TST
Coughs, Colds, Weak Lungs
Allcock's Plasters act as a preventive
as well as a curative.
Prevent colds becoming deep seated
Rheumatism in Shoulder
Relieved by using Allcock's Plasters
Athletes use them for
Stiffness or Soreness of muscles.
Allcock's is the original and genuine porous plaster.
It is a standard remedy, sold by chemists in every part
of the civilized world. Apply wherever there is Pain.
When you need a Pill
TAKE A Brandreth's Pill
Purely Vegetable.
(Est. 1752.)
For Constipation) Biliousness, Headache, Dizziness, Indigestion, Ktc>
SOLD BY CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
ALLCOCK MANUFACTURING Co., Birkenhead.
Champion Shoe
Machinery Co.,
St. Louis
U.S.A.
Combination Harness
and Shoe Stitchers,
Nailers, and Finishing
Outfits (power or
foot). Easily operated.
NON-ROYALTY.
No Shoo Repair, Shop Complete without CHAMPION ” Outfits.
J. W. LARBALESTIER, LTD.,
Sole Australasian
Agents,
Circular Quay East, Sydney, N.S.W.
CATALOGUES (ILLUSTRATED) POST FREE ON APPLICATION.
Hunyadi Janos
Chronic Constipation is a common cause of anaemia, dyspepsia,
headache, mental trouble and many other ills.
For Chronic Constipation, Indigestion, Biliousness, Dyspepsia, Torpid
Liver, Piles and similar troubles, Nature has happily furnished a
never-failing remedy. A systematic course of Hunyadi Janos Natural
Aperient Water will effect a certain and most likely permanent cure.
To obtain lasting good results it is of course necessary to regulate
most carefully diet and other details of daily life.
CONS
LET US TALK OF EMPIRE!
The SILENT EMPIRE BIOSCOPE is UNBEATABLE.
This statement is easily borne out by the
numerous delighted reports we receive from users.
Being British made with all-Steel Sprockets,
possessing Maltese Cross in Oil Bath, improved
gate and masking device, the Empire is the
Bioscope of To-day.
Showmen !
Our faith in our Machine is so strong that we
will instal a model in your show, and make a
comparison with the machine you are at present
using, and we will stand or fall by the result.
V/,
, KELVIN
GENERATING SET
We issue a Special Booklet dealing with these Machines. SEND FOB ONE.
WE ARE SOLE AGENTS FOR THE KELVIN GENERATING SETS.
“EVERYBODY IS USING THEM.”
JERDANS LTD..
393 George Street,
SYDNEY.
t
iDo You Long for a Full Moustache?
Then send to-day
for a jar of
CAPILLARINE.
This is a sure moustache-grower, which has been tested successfully by an <j
during the past 30 years. Can be applied at night. Growth coi Q
is permanent.
Price 10/6 Jar, Post Free.
The C. & A. Moustache Trainer,
shanes the moustache. 2/0, 3/6, > .
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654
George Street,
Establish jiJ 30 Years.
Sydney
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of commimications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Bilma: On your unsupported say-so you
ask us to print something that would get us about
three years’ hard if we couldn’t prove the whole
truth of it .Constant Reader: Sorry, but the
tramway people say they don’t know the distance
from any pub to any tram terminus L.L.8.:
Almost any old hen that had pecked crumbs off a
daily-paper lunch-wrapping could hatch out nearly
as commonplace a story.... Trinity Bay: That ought
to make an interesting item if the present position
of the sugar business were fully explained. What is
it?....T. Hill: Thanks again. We did not take
Frazer’s remarks kindly because every man in a re-
sponsible position in the office knows they were un-
fair.... Lover of Animals: George Reid isn’t bring-
ing out the Dry Dog with him. High Commis-
sioners, like mere kings and governors, are not
allowed to keep Dry Dogs. In England they are
even trying to stop Ministers having anything to dp
with Wild Cats; but the rule hasn’t been finally
adopted yet W. Go la: Note your point that
“Joseph Arthur Wood, solicitor, the Liberal candi-
date for the Newcastle seat selection, did not marry
Miss Essie Jenyns, but his cousin, John Robert Wood,
the old inter-State and inter-Varsity cricketer, did.”
It leaves us in our customary condition of bland, un-
emotional calm.... Cassowary: The Bulletin pays
for anything it prints, and you may send articles or
paragraphs, etc , but if the to-hand sample is your
best, pull off the line. .. . J.J.T.: The cat isn’t out
of the bag yet with the truth about M.L.’s naval de-
fence policy, but judging from his meowing he’s a
somewhat indifferent animal... .W.G.Y.: Story
turned up unexpectedly, but we had to turn it down
again. Humor is strained.... Bellerive: It looks like
an absolutely new idea in drunklore: —
A SWITCH OF GOLDEN HAIR.
In his forsaken home a drunkard
In frenzied despair
From a trunk drew a switch of
His departed wife’s hair.
As he gazed upon the relic
Against the wall he did reel
As if the spirit of the dead
Before him did steal.
Kate’s hair, he gasped, for
Drink I’ll not sell
’Twould doom my soul to
The torments of Hell.
... .M.M. (V.) : Who or what are you trying to imi-
tate? Manuscript most annoying thing we have
sighted this week... .R.R.8.: Very simple rhyme of
little literary value, but it has some freshness in it.
Declined respectfully... .Josiah Blankly: (As you
haven’t supplied your name we have had to christen
you.) The pathetic ballad may rest here:—
She was young and she was foolish
And perhaps she was to blime
When she met the village squire
And she lost her precious nime.
Then she went away to London
All to hide her ghastly shime
Where she met an army captain
And she lost her nime agine.
Now she rides in her Limoosing
As she passes on her w’y
All the toffs and nobby people
Stop to pars the time of dy.
She is dwelling in a palace,
And ’er parents, where they live
Drink the ehampine wot she sends them,
But they never can forgive!
. . . .Geo. A. (V.) : An unpromising subject for verse.
You can’t write verse anyhow.... Syd. C.: Very
feeble —a catspaw poemette. ... S. (Tasmania): The
call to arms might be misunderstood. .. .H.J,: Crude
work. Some feeling, but no originality. No print
value-..here... .Caper: It had a series of dangerous
fits on the brink before it tried to rhyme “Cohen”
with “loan,” and fell over with a sickening crash. .. .
Rowaga: No use.... J.T.H.: Cheerful burst of irreg-
ular song:—
HARVESTING.
’Mid the hustle and the rustle of a wheat-field’s
merry sway
We are working down the paddock, we are cutting
hay to-day.
Hear the humming of the binder from the strip along
the route,
And the knocking of the. carrier as another sheaf
goes out.
1 can hear the whip a-cracking, I can hear the driver’s
song,
And the old familiar shouting of the farmer: “Git
along !”
So crack the whip and stir ’em up! Yes, move the
nags along,
And be out with the stars in the morning.
The sun has died an hour ago; from west the breezes
come,
And in their way they seem to say you’d best be get-
ting home.
The stars was out when I came out and they are
shining still,
And Dad is just a-knocking off —he’s walking down
the hill.
I think I’d best be moving now —there’s horses to be
fed,
There’s pigs to tend and calves to pen—there ain’t
much time for bed.
But all the sanjfe I do it well. My heart is like my
hand.
Yes, we are what the poets call the backbone of the
land.
But sweeter than the sweetest words is the rattle of
the binder in the morning.
... .L.G.: Yes ; but no matter where we may be, we
are always far away from all the other places. It is
a heartrending fact; but unavoidable... .E.R.R.:
Cattle camp description fairly well done, but it is
an old stock- subject with skilled bush writers. Try
another paper... .G.8.A.: Poetic platitudes.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
L.R.: George Reid’s calamity with the train is out
of date, and the proposition about the pudding and
the stocking is calculated to put the public off its
victuals for a month.... Hull: The only new feature
of the ancient wheeze about the gin’s promotion is
the locality to which the lady has removed. Alter-
ing the scene does not make a hoary chestnut fresh
any more than a trip to London turns a ruin of 70
into a bounding youth of 17. Go to, thou purveyor
of ancient wit which was always witless. On second
thoughts there are other new features —the feet and
bingy of the aboriginal, to wit. No such feet or
bingy ever existed on the earth or under it, unless in
Gehenna. .. .John E. F.: “A Silly Joke” to hand.
Incidentally, it is a very silly picture. .. .A.J.8.:
Even if it weren’t built On a poor little pun, it would
be quite unsuitable for this family paper. . . .R. Mac-
alister: Sorry to say the samples submitted are quite
unsuitable... .R.H.: The gags might pull through'
with a struggle if there were good drawings
attached. But it would be an effort even then, and
the drawings aren’t good. They are as miserable as
a lost Antarctic expedition, or the crook’s explana-
tion as to how he came to pass the bad cheque.
After all, marriage is a lottery. In Ade-
laide on a recent evening the guests who
had assembled to view a wedding waited in
vain for the bridegroom. It gradually
leaked through the crowd that, during the
afternoon, he had gone to the races and
lost all the money he had been hoarding for
the honeymoon. With his last bob he wired
the news to the girl, suggesting a
ment till after the next race meeting. So
things were put back a week ; then, the right
horses coming home, the parson collected the
usual dividend in the usual manner.


Australian Mutual
Established 1849. p or
Provident
Assurance on the Mutual
Society.
Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold City
or Suburban Properties, or on Freehold
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury AiUs of any ’ f t ° h n th x e of Government
Zealand. Wat MM Australian States „ P New
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any y2a? ™thL t the privilef?e of spaying
Directors —The Hon. A. W. Meeks MT r rh * V ’ ,T' thout notlce or Payment of any fine.
F.P.A.. F.S.S. HEAD omo.: 87 £ft£TUiSSg? **' H .T.*”
Bargains
FROM
ENGLAND
BARGAINS
FOR
ALL
PAWNBROKERS’
Clearance Sale.
SEND AT ONCE FOR OUR
FULL LIST OF
3,500
GENUINE BARGAINS.
ASTOUNDING VALUE.
Brimming over with money-saving possibilities
Patronised.by Royalty and the Nobility.
Bankers:
London County & Westminster Bank,
Camberwell Branch, London.
W K^ to,please our Customers, hence our remarkable
own convenience, in your own honie and if vn“ " 6 *^, e I ? r , tlC ® s yo " lna y cl| oose at your
high quality and exceptional value’ return thenf i’o ' ' K a '! (i fully satis,ie(i with the
immediately return your deposit. ’ them to us within six months and we will
May we solicit a trial order? Absolute satisfaction guaranteed
or money returned in full.
TERMS OF BUSINESS.-Any Article Sent on Approval Carriage
Free, on rece.pt of remittance. Cash refunded in fuM for gooS!
' approved and returned us within six months.
Read what “The Christian Age” says—
“DAVIS iV Co., of 20 Denmark Hill, liave gained
considerable reputation for supplying unredeemed
pledges at very moderate prices We gather from
their latest Bargain Bist that great savings can be
effected liy purchasing a second-hand article of
jewellery w deli has just ltad enough wear to test
its value at about one-third the original cost price.
Included in their catalogue are watches by some of
the finest m titers in the world."
Read what “Great Thoughts” says—
**i.i£ 1 !?/i' eann » ot ex . ist '"" uil doubt as to the intrinsic
alue of any advertised article when sueli advertisers
t 0 seild the Roods advertised on tlie
Messrs u B vl lhis system is adopted bv
Messrs' DA Vis** 0 ?" a r d ia a sl,, « ulllr Proof that
ildHrv , A ; ls * , Co - • iave every belief in their
anility to please their customers and prove tlie
genuine nature of their announcements.”
14/6
‘(jgiejaq Xq) jE|tioouig XjBiqipij
•S9SSU19 auja'Bw io ‘oobh ‘ptajg
as supplied to officers in the Army and Navy
10 achromatic lenses ; 50 miles range ; shows
bullet mark at 1,000-yds.; saddler made case ;
great bargain; sacrifice, 14/6.
21/-
Powerful £4/4/- Binocular
Glasses (by Chevalier) ; 10
Field
lens
magnification power, brilliant definition, mer
60 miles range, great depth of focus, large
field of view ; adjusted to the highest degree
of scientific accuracy, in saddli.i made sling
case ; tremendous bargain ; sacrifice, £1/1/-
37/6
Powerful £8/8/- Double Draw Bino-
culars, 12 lens magnification power
(by Luaiiere), as supplied to H.R.H. the Crown
l'rince of Greece; most powerful glass made;
name of ship can be distinctly read five miles
from shore; quick focus, brilliant field of view,
colourless achromatic crystal lenses, enhanced
stereoscopic effect, great penetration power ; in
solid brown English leather case; sacrifice,£1/17/6
Gent’s heavy 18-ct. Gold-cased
Keyless Lever Hunter Watch,
improved action (John Forrest, London); 10
years’ warranty; absolutely perfect timekeeper;
also Double Curb Albert, same quality with
handsome Compass attached ; all quite indis-
tinguishable from new; complete, sacrifice, 12/6.
12/6
Lady’s handsome 18-ct. Gold-cased
Keyless Watch, improved action
(Allen & Co., London); exact timekeeper; 10
years' warranty; also long Watch Guard, elegant
design, same quality; together, sacrince, 12/6.
15/6
(Worth £4/4/-). Real Russian Furs.
Rich, dark sable brown Fur, 8-ft.
long ; Granville Stole, deep shaped collar,
beautifully trimmed, 12 tails and heads; large
Granny'Muff matching; together, 15/6.
22/6
(Worth £5/5/-). Real Russian Furs.
Rich, dark sable brown, extra long
Princess Stole, trimmed with head and tails at
back and on shoulders ; also large animal Muff,
with heads and tails hanging; in perfectly new
condition ; together, great sacrifice, £1/2/6.
12/6
Gent’s fashionable Double Albert,
18-ct. Gold (stamped) tilled, curb
pattern, heavy solid links; sacrilice, 12/6.
18 6
Lady’s £4/4/- 18-ct. Solid Gold, hall-
marked, Diamond and Sapphire
Doublet Half-hoop Ring, claw setting, large
faultless stones; sacrifice, 18/6.
70/-
Lady’s £13/13/- 5-Stone Diamond
and Sapphire Half-hoop Ring, 18-ct.
Gold, Government hall-marked, claw setting,
containing two large round diamonds of dazzling
whiteness and three beautiful sapphires of
richest quality : sacrifice, £3/10/-
26/6
Gent’s £4/4/- fashionable Dark Grey
Tweed Jacket Suit (by Stroud,
High-class Tailor) ; splendid quality,
West End cut and finish, never worn ;
39-in., waist 36-in., length 32J-in.; £1/6/6.
latest
breast
26/6
Lady’s £5/5/- Solid Gold English,
hall-marked, Keyless Watch, highly
finished jewelled movement, exact timekeeper,
richly engraved; 12 years’ warranty; £1/6/6.
70/-
Magnificent Gent’s £13/13/- Single
Stone Diamond Rin£, exceptionally
fine pure white stone, perfect in every respect,
mounted in 18-ct. Gold, Government hall-
marked, claw setting ; sacrifice, £3/10/-
26/6
Lady’s £5/5/- Solid Gold long Watch
Guard, handsome and very stylish
in pattern, stamped and guaranteed, in faultless
and new condition ; sacrifice, 0/6/6.
55/-
Gent’s magnificent £11/11/- Solid
Gold English,- hall-marked, Keyless
l«f v^ r L. < -' entre Seconds, Chronograph 8top
Watch, exam, by celebrated watchmaker (W.
Russell, London); jewelled movement, perfect
reliability in any climate in the world ; timed to
a minute a month; 20 years' warranty; 6 months’
trial; great bargain; sacrifice, £2/15/-
59 6
Lady’s magnificent £11/11/- Diamond
and Sapphire Cluster Ring, 18-ct.Gold,
hall-marked ; there are ten white and faultless
diamonds surrounding a superb sapphire ot
richest quality ; to appreciate the full beauty of
this Ring it must be seen ; sacrifice, £2/19/6.
29/6
Baby’s Long Clothes,
quality, magnificent £5/5/- parcel,
82 articles, everything required; beautiful
garments ; the perfection of mother's personal
work; never worn: ereat sacrifice ri/q/fi
32/6
Valuable Yiolin (worth £10/10/-),
perfect condition, labelled Stradivarius
Cremona, 1721 ; rich mellow tone, with Bow
and Case, suit professional or soloist: /'1/12/6.
13/6
(Worthy £3/3/-). Choice Expanding
Watch Bracelet; finest workman-
ship, most successful ever invented, will fit
and grip any wrist, thereby avoiding all vibration
and ensuring perfect timekeeping; 18-ct. Gold-
cased ; 6 months’ trial; sacrifice, 13/6.
12/9
(Worth £1/15/-). Kish t superfine quality
Chemises, Knickers, and Petticoats;
magnificent parcel; sacrifice, 12/9.
39/6
Spoons and Forks. (£10/10/- Set).
A1 quality, silver-plated on niokel
silver, stamped maker’s initials, Queen Anne
pattern; 12 Table, 12 Dessert, 12 Tea Spoons,
12 Table, 12 Dessert Forks; Service 5-doz.;
wonderful bargain, £1/19/6; Half-Set, £1.
Fashionable Curb Chain Padlock
Bracelet, with safety chain, solid
10/6
links, 18-ct. Gold (stamped) filled, in velvet case;
sacrifice, 10/6; another heavier, 12/6.
26/6
(Worth £4/4/-). Twenty-four superfine
quality Nightdresses, Chemises,
Knickers, Petticoats, Combinations, &c.;
tremendous bargain ; sacrifice, £1/6/6.
6/9
Pretty Necklet, with Heart Pendant
attached, set Parisian pearls and tur-
quoises; elegant design; 18-ct. Gold (stamped)
filled; in velvet case ; bargain; sacrifice, 6/9.
DAVIS & CO.
r L )
PAWNBROKERS,
26 DENMARK HILL,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
Time spent using
Galverf's
Fowder
is time spent well .
Local Chemists
and Stores sell it.
Makers :
F. C. Calvert & Co-,
Manchester, Eng.
For the cleaner the teeth
are kept, of course the
longer they will last and
the better they will look.
Holmes’ Shaping Machines
For High Speed and Heavy Duty.
wottM A Quao«a,\ '
“ Angular Cut*
*
f»«s
VX RT JCAL AOJUS TMENf
Single or Double Head
Single or Double Table
Cone or Single Pulley All-Gear Drive
Self-acting in longitudinal, transverse, vertical and circular cuts.
As supplied to Government Railways, Dockyards and private Engineering Work-
shops throughout Australia.
Carried in Stock by the SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA—
BENSON BROTHERS
51-53 Druitt Street, Sydney; 60 Queen Street, Melbourne
HIS MASTER’S VOICE
—the Gramophone
that is DIFFERENT!
An “His Master’s Voice” Gramophone is
virtually an impresario among instruments
—between it and ,the ordinary talking
machine lies a distance which the latter will
never bridge.
It is a treasury of the world’s greatest musi-
cal achievements, because no voice is so
rare, no opera so magnificent, no old violin
so exquisite but this machine will repro-
duce its soulful melody in realistic manner.
The Gramola No. 3 is an elegant instrument
in highly polished mahogany, with large in-
ternal horn of special metal which enhances
the tone.
Record storage chamber under horn ; index
book; sound-box case and sliding tray;
triple spring motor; 12-inch turn-table;
speed indicator and other exclusive features
of “His Master’s Voice” Gramophones.
Price - - £42/10/-
GRAMOLA No. 3.
Other Models from £5 to £6O.
Instrument catalogue, record lists and name of nearest dealer on request.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Fashion’s
Last Decree
Is that Cruets are
superseded by separate
pieces for each condi-
ment.
We are showing a
great assortment of
these elegant Table
Requirements in Crys-
tal Silver-mounted, in
Solid Silver, and in
the Best Electro Silver.
Our prices are bed-
rock, because we
simply deduct 20 per
cent. discount from
the English Manufac-
turers’ wholesale cata-
logues.
It pays us because of
the enormous turnover.
Fairfax 8 Robertsltd.
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 & 25 Hunter Street.
Plain Figcrks—Cash.
Solid Silver Mustard, Pepper and Salt, handsomely cased as
illustrated 63/-
Less 20% discount 12/6
50/0
“Linseed Compound,” Trade Mark of Kay’s.
Compound Essence of Linseed for Coughs and Colds.
HE Australian Magazine—THE LONIS
HAND. The National Monthly. Price. 6d.


HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY,
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON. I/rn.
LAST FIVE NIGHTS OF THE SEASON.
ADELINE GENEE,
in
ROBERT LE DIABLE, THE ARABIAN
NIGHTS and LA CAMARGO.
PRICES: D.C. and O.S. (booked), 7/6 ; at door, 6/*;
Stalls, 4/-; Amphitheatre till 7.30, 2/-; thereafter, 1/-
PLANS AT PALING’S.
Til EAT R E ROYAL. SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING, AT 7.45.
THE DEUCE WINS!
EVERY EVENING AT
THE ARCADIANS.
A SPORTING PIECE FOR A SPORTING SEASON.
PRICES: D.C. and O.S. (Reserved and at door), 6/-;
Stalls, 4/- ; Amphitheatre till 7.30, 2/• : thereafter. 1/-
A DEL PHI THEATRE. SYDNEY.
Direction GEORGE WILLOUGHBY.
Last Two Nights of MARRIED TO THE WRONG MAN.
SATURDAY EVENING NEXT.
LAST THREE NIGHTS OF PRESENT SEASON,
OCTOBER 4, 6 and 7.
EAST LYNN E.
BOX PLAN AT NICHOLSON’S.
PRICES: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/- Early Doors 6d. extra.
p ALACK THEATRE. SYDNEY.
AGAIN A HUGE SUCCESS.
EVERY EVENING.
THE BERT BAILEY POPULAR COMBINATION
in STEELE RUDD’S Famous Australian Comedy,
ON OUR SELECTION.
BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
POPULAR PRICES : Dress Circle and Orchestra Stalls,
4/-(No Booking Fee) ; Back Stalls, 2/6 ; Gallery, 1/-; Early
Doors 6d. extra (except on Saturdays and Holidays).
ATIONAL A.M I’ll ITII EAT li K. SYDNEY.
Managing Director : BEN J. FULLER.
BRENNAN-FULLER’S VAUDEVILLE CIRCUIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
CARRIE MOORE, World-famous Comic Opera Artist.
MORRIS’S WRESTLING PONIES.
ARTHUR TROUTT & MERMAID, an Aquatic Novelty.
JEWELL & JORDAN, Human Mocking Birds.
THE FRANKLINS, Comedy Duo.
DAVIS, ALLEN & DAVIS, Three Original Oddities.
PRICES : 3/-, 2/-, 1/6, 1/-
Saturdays and Holidays, 3/-, 2/-, 1/- Plan at Theatre.
-J- HE JOHN McCOBMACK CONCERTS.
THE SENSATION OF 1913.
RETURN SYDNEY SEASON.
TOWN HALL.
MONDAY NEXT, at 8.
TUESDAY NEXT, at 3 (matinee).
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 10, at 8.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 11, at 8.
JOHN McCORMACK,
THE WORLD’S GREATEST LYRIC TENOR.
ADELAIDE SEASON.
TOWN HALL,
OCTOBER 15, 16, 18 and 20.
MELBOURNE SEASON.
AUDITORIUM.
COMMENCING OCTOBER 25.
Full particulars from —
DIRECTION <!• & N. TAIT,
AUDITORIUM, MELBOURNE.
SYDNEY OFFICE NICHOLSON’S, LTD.
QLACIARIUM AND OLYMPIA, SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEE—SATURDAY.
DE GROEN’S VICEREGAL ORCHESTRAS.
3d. to 2s. Plans at Nicholson’s (No Extra Fee).
g PENCE R’S LYCEUM, SYDNEY.
A STAR OF DAZZLING BRILLIANCY.
THE TIGER LILY.
AN ENTHRALLING STORY OF REAL LIFE,
THE KINETOPHONE.
TALKING PICTURES. ALL NEW SUBJECTS.
BOX PLAN AT PALING'S.
IMPERIAL ROLLER RINK,
Eoot of William Street.
A REFINED KINKING RENDEZVOUS
for
FASTIDIOUS PEOPLE.
NOW OPEN. THREE SESSIONS PER DAY
GORDON GRANT,
Manager.
R
I C K A RD S’ TIVOLI T H EA T It K.
Personal Direction Mr. HUGH D. McINTOSH.
GENE GREENE, the Emperor of Ragtime.
HENRI FRENCH, the Intoxicated Genius.
EARLE REYNOLDS & NELLIE DONEGAN, Skaters
FANTON’S ATHLETES, Sensational Aerial Act.
4 QUAINT Q’s, Humorous Burlesque Artists.
THE HAVILANS, BELLORA, TOM DAWSON,
VAUDE & VERNE.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
Prices: 5/-, 4/- and II-
OPERA
Personal
HOUSE, .MELBOURNE.
Direction Mr. HUGH D. McINTOSH.
MERIAN’S ACTING DOGS.
FRANK PARISH, Sensational Novelty Dancer.
JULIA GONZALES, Intrepid Trapezist.
SYDNEY BACH, Welsh Entertainer.
GREAT GOLDEN TROUPE OF RUSSIAN DANCERS,
SINGERS AND INSTRUMENTALISTS.
WILLIAMS and RANKIN, the Yankee Doodle Duo.
ALBERTO MARINI, Italian Tenor.
Plan at Allan’s. Ig^PRICES—4s., 35., 25., Is.
Olympia. o l
l y m p i a.
Y M P I A.
.MELBOURNE.
(Just across Princes Bridge).
WHERE ARE TO BE SEEN THE UNRIVALLED
SPENCEU’S PICT U EES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS AT 2.30.
EVERY NIGHT AT 8.
UfeS T’S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
THE BEST WEST’S PICTURES THE BEST
OF ALL LIMITED. OF ALL
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8. Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays,
and All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be seen
at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
p r i ces —ed. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
I R C H & CARROLL
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS,
laving Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
rters Towers. .
ours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
te, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
ch we have the Booking Control
Representatives in Queensland for the General r ilm
ipanv of Australasia Ltd.
id Office : ROTH WELL CHAMBERS, BRISBANE.
"THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ Sole Lessee and Manager: William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Reappearance of the Favorite
MISS EUGENIE DUGGAN,
Supported by
H. R. ROBERTS,
In the Modern, Up-to-date Drama,
THE CONFESSION.
POPULAR PRICES. PLANS AT ALLAN’S.
Majestic theatre, Melbourne.
Lessees: AMALGAMATED PICTURES LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.10.
HARRY CORSON CLARKE
and his American Comedy Co., including
MISS MARGARET DALE OWEN,
In the Sparkling Comedy,
WHOSE BABY ARti YOU?
Prices: 45., 35., 25., Is. Plans, Allan’s & Menzies’.
BI JOU THEATRE. M E L B O U R N E.
Lessees . . Messrs. BRENNAN & FULLER.
Sub-Lessee REYNOLDS DENNISTON.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.10.
HUGH C. BUCKLER and MISS VIOLET PAGET.
Supported by a Brilliant Company,
In the American Comedy Drama,
BOBBY BURN! T.
Prices: 55., 35., 25., Is. 6d. & Is.
Plans: Allan’s, Grand, Menzies, Oriental.
The auditorium,
MELBOURNE.
Direction .. BIBLICAL BIOGRAPHS LTE>.
OCTOBER Ist to 18th.
FROM MAKGER TO CROSS.
Organ Accompaniment. Full Symphony Orchestra
and musical numbers, by
VICTORIAN FESTIVAL CHOIR.
PRICES: 3/-, 2/- and 1/- PLAN AT ALLAN’S.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietors .. GEO. WILLOUGHBY LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, OCTOBER 4.
Reappearance of the Irish Singing Comedian,
ALLEN DOONE, in his Greatest Laugh-maker.
IN OL1) DONEGAL.
ADMISSION: 5/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/- Plan at Pianola Co.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Direction .1. C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY) OCTOBER 2.
THE QUINLAN OPERA CO. in
TALES OF HOFFMANN.
To-morrow (Friday), October 3, LA TRAVIATA.
Saturday, October 4, IL TROVATORE.
Monday, October 6, TRISTAN AND ISOLDE.
Plan at Allan’s. Reserved Seats and Dress Circle,
10s. 6d. and 7s. 6d. (at doors). Balcony and Stalls,
ss. Pit and Gallery, 2s. 6d. Early Door, Is. extra.
Theatre royal. Melbourne.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Reappearance of FRED NIBLO, supported by a
Distinguished Company, in
THE EOBTUNE HUNTER.
PRICES: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-
Stalls, 4/-. Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE.
Made in England. Perfectly
harmless, indetectable,
and guaranteed free
from Nitrate of
Silver an 4 Lead
Salts.
IN VARIOUS
SHADES Raven
Black, Black,
Brown, Light or
Golden Brown,
Blonde, Chestnut
and Auburn
Price 3/6, posted 3/1t
Directions with every
bottle.
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 The Block Arcade, Collins St., Melbourne
FOR a fair
i ... TRY
DINKUM GO]
THE ... 4
lEZON
Accordeons
The World’s Best
35/-, 42/- 63/-
Sole Agent:
LYONS,
Bourke st.,Melb.
VISIT
THE
Chamber of Manufactures’
Great
All-Australian
Exhibition
EXHIBITION BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
OPEN AFTERNOONS & EVENINGS.
All Previous Exhibitions Eclipsed.
6d. ADMITS.
F. L. W. ASHBY, Manager.
“they say I am
mightier than
the sword!"
“ Only the soldier needs
the sword no-wad ays, but
rrtervbodv has need of met
for / am the Onoio —
peerless among pens."
The Onoto simplifies wri-
ting. It writes with smooth
precision from first to last.
It is the one real I v saris-
factorv self-tilling pen.
Orvoto Pen
the “trusty” pen.
The Onoto is British made. It is designed to
last a lifetime; and is guaranteed by its makers.
Price 12/ and upwards, t/all Stationers, Jewellers ,
and Stores. Booklet about the Onoto Pen free on
application to THOS. DE LA RUE &• CO., Ltd.,
181, Bunhill Row, London, E.C , or the
A ustralasian R epresen tatives
NORMAN BAKER LONGHURST , jo York
Street, Sydney.
Ask lor ONOTO INK—Best for all Pens.
rrp
iJcfe
lIIIIIMI 1 "
Registered
NOTE THE SLOT
The Best Tooth Powder
in The Best Container
|ewsbury& Browns
f| Oriental
Tooth Powder
6-&17
in the
United Kingdom
All the Family may
use the same box.
WHOLESALE AGENTS in SYDNEY.
Messrs. Elliott Bros. Ltd.
« , F.H.Faulding &Ca
8-Hour Demonstration, Sports 8 Art Union
MONDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1913.
Drawn November t, 1913 (under the sanction of the Attorney-General).
ou
£750
Might
Win
This
FIRST PRIZE:
Diamond Tiara.
2nd Prize, value £4OO
3rd Prize, value £250
and 397 other Valuable Prizes.
The first prize last year was won by Mr. J. W. Walker, Break-
fast Creek, Cowra, N.S.W., niMP C.HII I IMfi
for the modest outlay of vrINGr
GET A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1913.
LEST YOU FORGET—SEND TO-DAY.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on
November 6.
To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, a list
of the results will be posted. Tickets may be had from Agents
in all towns, or direct from
JOHN W. DOYLE, Secretary, Eight-Hour Committee.
Trades Hall, Sydney.
King of
All Buenos
are
Matchless
Value . .
For rich mellow flavor
and delicate aroma,
these cigars are un-
equalled.
Made from selected,
fully-matured leaves
and perfectly rolled,
King of All Buenos
are pleasing to the
palate and burn with
a free, even draught
to the last inch.
PRICES'
KING OF ALL BUENOS
6d. each, or 3 for 1/-,
posted. 50 for 15/9; 100
for 31/-, post free.
KING OF ALL CLUBS
another excellent brand, 50
for 20/-, post free.
ALL TOBACCONISTS SELL THEM.
Craig (Si Aitßen,
654 George Street, Sydney.
Established 30 years.
«u 3
ASTHMA
P
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
Over 30 years ago the late Lord
Bcaconsfield testified to the benefits
ha leceived rom Himrod’s
Aathrna Powder and every
post brings similar letters
to-day.
A3T2PIA
Famed for 40 Years.
Best remedy or Asthma
Hay t-ever, Kose Cord, or
ord nary Cough.
Socd in IMi by au Chcmuu and dura
throughout Auuruiulio.
ARE YOU FAIR TO YOURSELFP
A/OU begin to
look old, with
those grey and
faded hairs,
always so con-
spicuous. A
bottle of the
world-famed
Lockyer’s
Hair Restorer, 1/6
gives health to the Hair and restores the
natural colour. It cleanses the scalp; is
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
DON’T LOOK OLD.
We are the Only Manufacturers of
Scientific Glassware in Australia.
We make Scientific Instruments for
every class of Trade, Industry or rro-
fession in which they are useu ■
Medical, Chemical, Dairying, Agricul-
tural, Brewing, Meat Work's, Bakers,
Vignerons, etc.
We repair every class of instrument,
too. If you want instruments for any
special purpose, write us about u.
Our Booklet is Free; shall we send
you a copy?
5
WILSON NAFIS 8 CO. LTD.,
Wharf Street, Brisbane, Q.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant-
ling, Seasoned flooring an
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS' HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, " r .A. _
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE,
68i PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S. •
Branches in all pans of the
• „ the LONJ'j
'HE Australian Magazine—- price. 6‘l-
- The National Montuiy-
‘LINSEED COMPOUND,”
proven efficacy for Coughs, Colds,


FACE COVERED
WITH DRV RASH
Then Came Out in Pimples, Would
Almost Tear Face Off. Used Cu-
ticura Soap and Cuticura Oint-
ment. Now Quite Left Her.
Barker St., Lower Randwick, N. S. \Y.
“My eldest girl had a most dreadful face;
it was covered with a dry rash at first and
then it came out in
pimples and when she got
warm she would almost
tear the face off her.
I tried a few different
lotions and ointments but
it seemed to do her no
good; it would go away
for a time but only to
come back again. I was
distracted; I did not know what to do, when
one day my sister-in-law advised me to get
a cake of Cuticura Soap, which I did. You
would be surprised, it took all heat out of
it, but the scales were still there, so I sent for
a sample tin of Cuticura Ointment, and
would you believe it, it has quite left her
and she has had no return of it and not a
mark of any kind left.” (Signed) Mrs.
Catley, April, 1912.
Uo you wish to improve your complexion,
hands or hair) If you wish a skin clear of
pimples, blackheads and other annoying
eruptions, hands soft and white, hair live
and glossy, and scalp free from dandruff
and itching, begin to-day the regular use
of Cuticura Soap for the toilet, bath and
shampoo, assisted by an occasional light
application of Cuticura Ointment. They
are most effective in treating poor com-
plexions. red, rough hands, and dry, thin
and falling hair. Sold throughout the world.
Liberal sample of each mailed free, with
32-p. Skin Book. Address R. Towns &
Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Constipation and
Sluggish Liver
Don’t take chances. Get CARTER’S
LITTLE LIVER PILLS right now. They
never fail to make the liver
do its duty. They cure
stipation, banish indi-
gestion, drive out
biliousness and the
blues, stop dizzi-
ness, clear the
complexion,
glow on the
cheek and
Carters
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
sparkle in the eye. There are manv imitations. Be
sure and get CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER PILLS, lhe
pill is small, dose is small, price is small, but results
ire alright. The GENUINE must bear signature
£
it
\7
Or
n - -
AN INTERESTING
experiment.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey Hairs
make, just lay a piece of paper over each of the two
Halves of the above portrait. The Grey “half” will
then be seen to have the appearance of 45 years of
■>Se, whereas the other half looks only 30. Dr. B.
Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut Stain will make
all those years of difference if you are grey or prema-
turely grey. It is perfectly harmless, easy to apply,
and will quickly restore the Hair to the natural shade
°f youth, or younger years.
Dr. B. ALLEN’S «u.s. A ,
Mexican WALNUT STAIN
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suitable
■or Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or Moustache.
CARBIDE.
For First-Class
Results use
best
«~“PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED, 02
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Air nts for Australia.
PUiES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand uo woman in
'[ t v (| r country should miss.
‘Linseed Compound.” The “Stockport Item-
Pf ly for Coughs & Colds. Of 40 years’ proven efficacy.
I Was Bald
And came into possession of the
secret of a Genuine Hair Grower.
My Hair Grew to its Present Length in 40 Days.
Mr. CRAVEN
BURLEIGH
From a recent
photograph.
THIS ANNOUNCEMENT is of special interest to every MAN
AND WOMAN who has previously tried other HAIR-GROWING PREPARA
TIONS. If you have HAD NO SUCCESS WITH OTHERS, please write to
me. I REFRAIN from expressing any personal opinion as to other prepara-
tions, but point to the vast array of letters received from patrons, who,
HAVING TESTED numerous advertised compounds, washes, etc., without
benefit., used my pomade, and FOUND IT TO BE EXACTLY AS REPRE-
SENTED A TRUE lIAIR GROWER. It is always prepared in accordance
with the formula with which my name has become famous, and which is
endorsed by NOTED ANALYTICAL EXPERTS OF ENGLAND, GERMANY,
FRANCE AND THE UNITED STATES. It can be shown by many letters
which I receive that, IN A FEW DAYS AFTER THE FIRST APPLICATION,
THE HAIR BEGINS TO GROW, AND CONTINUES UNTIL A HEALTHY,
STRONG, PERMANENT GROWTH IS MANIFEST.
Those who are troubled with falling hair, dandruff, baldness, itching scalp, etc., know full well
the humiliation that they cause. There is no need, however, of such conditions. These troubles can
be quickly overcome by my True Hair Grower.
10,000 F reeTrial Boxes
My offer is a straightforward, honest proposition from a business man to sensible men and women.
The merit of my TRUE HAIR GROWER is in the preparation itself, not in the advertising. If you
will write to me I will send you a TRIAL BOX of the .10IIN CRAVEN BURLEIGH TRUE HAIR
GROM ER. I make this offer because I want YOU to know just what my True Hair Grower will do.
I was bald, it cured me, and it has cured thousands of others. Package will be sent securely sealed
in plain wrapper.
BALDNESS, DANDRUFF, ITCHING, ETC.
FREE TRIAL COUPON.
Cut out this Coupon, and send with 3 stamps, to cover postage, etc., and I will
immediately post a trial box of my True Hair Grower.
JOHN CRAVEN BURLEIGH, DEPT. 7, 192 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Because the Body-Building Power of Bovril has been
proved to be from 10 to 20 times the amount taken.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuinm
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectuall >
cuts short all
attacks »t
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
‘he cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acts like a charm In
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY.
1/H> 2/9 & 4/b. Made in England.
s
Choose a “ Swan.”
The comfort of it, the sureness, ease,
sweetness —each and every character-
istic deserves notice. The “Swan”
Fountpen pleases the most impatient,
exacting writer —those who expect
more out of a pen than others have
given. We can satisfy such and win
their enthusiastic recommendation.
Every hand suited exactly.
The
“Swan safety”
Can’t LraK,
Blot, Miss,
or Scratch !
Sold by all Stationers
and Jewellers.
Catalogue free on request. ~
MABIE, TODD & CO., London and
Australian Branch (Wholesale only):
i. a. burkb;
Branches.
5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George St., Sydney.
WSA*WW»!>
m
An
Odorless Breath
Is but one of the many advantages that Pebeco
provides. Cleaner, whiter, stronger teeth, firmer,
healthier gums, and a high standard of mouth
health, all inevitably follow its night and morning
use.
OBTAINABLE ALL CHEMISTS.
Trial Tube of Pebeco, with interesting book and
test papers, free for three penny stamps, on appli-
cation to the Sole Agent,
G. ARNOLD
(Dept. M), 6 O’Connell Street, Sydney
(WHOLESALE ONLY). [1
The Inky Way.
Died on September 19, G. W. Reynolds, proprie-
tor of the Young Chronicle (N.S.W.) for over a
quarter of a century. He was within sight of the
82nd mile-post, and occupied the driver s seat up
to his 80th year, when failing health made him
drop the reins into his daughter’s hands. The Rey-
noldses who perpetrated the “Court of London
Series’' had similar initials, and although no rela-
tion of theirs, the old man, as an apprentice, carried
the proofs of that dizzy and unreliable record to
the author for correction. He was one of the band
of “Forty Thieves’’ brought out by Hugh George
for the Melbourne Argus in the ’so's. After some
years on that paper he ran the Hampden Guardian,
and also the Warrnambool Chronicle, but bumped
up against the Manifolds, and got hurt. It was then
he was induced to insure his life. The insurance
company loaded the policy on account of a weak
chest, but Reynolds vowed that the hollow sound
came from the region of the pocket. While at
Warrnambool he advised John Farrell, years after-
wards editor of Sydney Telegraph, to give up the
beer-vat for the pen. Coming to Sydney in the
latter end of the ’7o’s he worked on the S. M.
Herald, and later bought the Young Chronicle.
which paper the family still owns. Many a travel-
ling comp, was given a lift on the way by “De 10.,”
as the cheery old soul was called by his employees;
and, altogether, when the Celestial Proof-reader
goes through the proof-sheets of his life, there won’t
be many bad mistakes of the heart to be “marked.”
Bathurst (N.S.W’.) is preparing to go gay on its
100th birthday, and wants an “ode or poem,” an
“essay” and various other literary tipples for the
feast. Decent prizes are offered ; their size and
other information may be had from the sec. of the
committee at Bathurst.
***■*■
From the North-Eastern Advertiser (Tas.)
THANKS.
DONALD McLENNAN wishes to thank Almighty
God for sparing his wife.
This ought to suggest something to “Mr. .James.”
Having opened up and developed the rich reefs
known as “In Memoriam” and “Silver and Golden
Weddings,” why not peg out and float another to be
called “For Mercies Received”? No other paper
could do it, for it has long been known in the Fair-
fax office that no paper except the Herald is taken
in at Headquarters.
* * * *
There is a bishop—he wears his gaiters at South
Tokyo (Japan) when he is at home—who only
became acquainted with The Bulletin when iie
drifted into Australia the other day to attend the
Brisbane Congress. Of course the Bishop of Tokyo
(Japan) says that Japan doesn’t hanker after any
part of Australia, and that The Bulletin’s ideas on
that subject are wrong ; but, all the same, he wishes
the writers on English Church papers would serve
an apprenticeship on The Bulletin, “to learn how
not to be dull.” This suggests a new department,
and readers may expect any day now to hear of the
opening of The Bulletin Academy for the Training
of Clerical Writers.
The 250-guinea prize which Andrew Melrose, a
London publisher, offers annually for the best first-
novel submitted to his house has just been won by
Miss Margaret Peterson with “The Lure of the
Drum.” She is an assistant to a London photo-
grapher, but has had some experience as a journalist
in Fleet-street. According to London Evening Stand-
ard : “An uncle of Miss Peterson is Principal of
McGill College, Montreal, and another is professor
of Music in the University of Melbourne.’”
“Exile”: When the Commonwealth started adver-
tising itself in London its fiist posters were pasted
on tne insides of the underground tube railways,
usually alongside the huge bills of Whitbread’s ale
and stout brewery. The effect was so striking that
tens of thousands of habitual beer-drinking farmers
from Hackney, Clapton, New Cross and Stratford-
atte-Bowe broke up their homes and migrated to
Australia. Then a new line of advertising was dis-
covered, and the underground railways were de-
serted for the music halls; and every night im-
passioned invitations were flashed to galleries filled
with home-seekers anxious to give up hawking and
take to farming. The advertising of Australia in
Great Britain has so far been very badly done, chiefly
because it has been done’by people who have never
seen Australia. Now a great chance for a striking
permanent advertisement is about to be missed, inas-
much as, judging by the plans, there is no room on
the new' Australian Building in the Strand for even
a modest brass plate stating who owns the building,
or what it is used for. Somewhere on the building
the words “Commonwealth of Australia” should be
printed in letters 20 feet high and 10 feet wide, so
that every passer-by on foot or on ’bus would be
compelled to read it. And at night time the roof
should be used for an electric sign as big as Niagara,
stating that the building belongs to Australia. In
fact, neither the sun by day nor the moon by night
should ever be allowed to set over these offices with-
out a good substitute.
Just upon half a century ago “Old Boomerang,”
who had turned out large quantities of Australian
tales and sketches in prose and rhyme, published
“Australian Capers; or Christopher Cockle’s Colonial
Experience.” George Routledge and Sons published
i+, and, among others, Samuel C. Kent (Camden
Congregational" College) and Joseph H. Fletcher
(Newington Methodist College), having read the
MSS., blessed it. Now the old writer (J. R. Hould-
in") "' republishes his book, and gets a word from
the President of the Methodist Conference, who
writes that “as a picture of Australian life 30 or 40
years ago,” it is “worthy of a permanent place in
our literature”—which is" true enough—except that
the pictures are all much nearer 50 than either 30 or
40 years old.
THE WAY OF THE YELLOW MAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Yuan Shih Kai surrounded a riotous town, and,
when it wag taken, exec.ied 1000 rioters. “For-
e'S™; 1 :* may not think well me,” said Yuan, “nor
ot this methqd, but it is my way.”
—Chinese press item.
Yuan Shih Kai sat down,
Lord of a hard-won town ;
Never a foe in the light of day,
Never a rebel to say him nay;
Streets were still i’ the peace of Death.
Children hid with a bated breath;
Never a woman that dared to scream
Wond’ring was it a dreadful dream:
Grimly said Yuan Shih Kai:
“Put up their heads on high.
Telling to all that knew them
Yuan it was that slew them !
And if they complain
Over the slain,
Muttering ‘Yuan, we can’t agree
With you and your ways and your axe so*free!’
Malcontents! This is the Way of Me!”
Y uan Shih Kai the dread
Washes his hands so red,
Biddeth the man with the Axe to rest,
Maketh a feast for the friend and guest;
Over his daintiest diet,
Maketh a jest of the riot,
Knowing no rebel will stab i’ the back
When he is safe with his head i’ the sack.
“Yea!” saith Yuan Shih Kai,
“I have lifted on high,
Up where the breezes blow,
Heads that would lay me low!
And if the West
Murmur—‘A pest,
Yuan, on murder and barbarity!
With you and your axe we can’t agree!’
YY hite men! This is the Way of Me!''
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.


The Recognised Leading House for all
SMOKERS & SHAVERS’ REQUISITES
PIPES
H
I
G
H
m
*2S,
*>o
*23
G
R
A
D
E
S.N.Tj. Pipes, made from finest quality old
briar root, with superior hand-cut Para vul-
canite mouthpieces. Heavy Silver mounts.
All shapes 3/- each (post free)
‘Goudron,” finest quality
Natural Block
Meerschaum Pipes.
THE
SWEETEST
AND
COOLEST
SMOKING
PIPES EVER PRODUCED.
Para Vulcanite Mouthpieces, in ease,
8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 14/6, 16/6, 21/-
each (post free).
Natural Pressed Amber Mouthpieces,
in case,
12/6, 14/6, 16/6, 18/6, 25/-each
(post free).
CIGARS
QUALITE
DE LUXE
“Golden Key”
Cigars, of exquisite
aroma and infinite
charm.
The Standard
of Luxury
in Smoking.
_.
Put up in cedar cabinets containing—
-25 cigars, 11 /6; 50 cigars, 22/6
(post free).
Sample boxes of 5 cigars, 2/6 (post
free).
CIGARETTES.
Delightful, Fascinating
“Three Witches”
Cigarettes, made from
selected, sun-ripe
Virginian Tobacco.
Finest quality.
5/- per 100 (post
free;,
Jhree Witches
VIRGINIA
JL*
& Sons L
TOBACCOS.
‘Sunol,” highest grade Virginian, awarded 4
gold medals. Dark or Light. In pluy or
CUt, 6/- per lb. (post free).
‘LoII US” Smoking Mixture, choicest tobaccos,
skilfully blended. Put up in 2oz. tins.
8/6 per lb. (post free).
Tobacco Pouches
H
A
N
D
Y
m
m
PrX-r,
m
c
0
M
P
A
C
T
Wallet Pouch, Split Calf 2/9 each
„ ~ Real Morocco .. 3/6 »
„ ~ Calf Crocodile .. 4/6 >•
„ „ Gazelle 5/-
„ „ Velvet Calf .... 6/6 »
15^
POCKET LIGHTERS.
The “Sunol” Pocket
Lighter. Every smoker
should have one. Simple
in construction. Nothing
to get out of order.
2/- each (post free).
CIGAR and CIGARETTE
HOLDERS.
Amber Cigar Holders, silver rim,
in case, 6/6, 7/6 each.
Amber Cigar Holders, gold rim,
in case, 10/0, 11/6 each.
Amber Cigarette Holders, silver
rim, in case 4/- 4/6 each.
Amber Cigarette Holders, gold rim, in
rase 7/6, 8/6 each.
SHAVING SETS.
N
O
I
H
I
N
G
rtf
B
E
T
T
E
R
Shaving Sets, comprising 1 renowned C. 8.8.
Razor, 1 C. 8.8. Razor Strop, 1 Badger Hair
Shaving Brush, and atick Williams's Soap—
-18/6 (post free).
RAZORS
R
A
R
E
Q
u
A
L
I
T
Y
The “Hitite” Razor, pronounced by experts
to be absolutely perfect. None to
equal it. Kept in good order for 2 years,
free of charge—-
Vulcanite Handle 7/6 each (post free).
Ivory Handle ■••• 10/6 each (post free).
SAFETY RAZORS.
The Celebrated “Auto Strop” Safety
Razor, complete with 12 blades and strop,
iri leather case 22/6 (post free).
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
Head Depot: Haymarket, Sydney
Branches: CITY, SUBURBS and NEWCASTLE.
The First
Successful
Self-Filling
Fountain
Pen.
D?>
Wll
Always the Leader, Without a Peer.
Every shop should have our line of Automatic Self-
Filling Fountain Pens. The “A.A.” is the one
pen for which there is no substitute. Its self-filling
feature is unique and so far superior to any other on
the market that it is the pen for ait.
Fitted with i4kt. gold pens, any style or size, in plain, chased
or mottled holders, or mounted in sterling silver filigree, gold-
filled and mother of pearl—handsome and serviceable.
The cut herein also shows the newly patented “A.A.”Clip
attached to the cap of the pen. It holds perfectly firm, and
can be attached almost instantly.
If you cannot secure Ihe “ A.A.” Automatic Self=
Filling Fountain Fen, with the “ A.A.” Clip at your shop,
write for prices to
RYAN. LEWIS (Q. CO. Pty., Ltd.,
521 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sole Agents for Australasia and New Zealand of the
ARTHUR A. WATERMAN & CO., New York, U.S.A.
NOT CONNECTED WITH THE L. E. WATERMAN CO. [i
Hade in
England
Underwear
AR
3avux
The “BIRD MARK” on your Underwear
is a guarantee that the garments are made from
the finest Australian Lambswool and Cotton,
and in some qualities Silk is added.
The garments also have patented improve-
ments and fit the figure perfectly.
The most perfect underwear for hot weather
is the “BIRD MARK” Merino and Silk
Underwear, it will stand hard wear yet light ir
weight.
Sold by all Drapers and Outfitters.
Wholesale only ;
I. & R. MORLEY and GEO. BRETTLE & CO..
London, E.C
Ask for THE ‘ BIRD MARK ’ MERINO UNDERWEAR
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co., Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1913 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine'S SILENT FRIBND, Is 6d. NKD DONNELLY’S ART
op Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating ths
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made East, Is. Up-to*
Date Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Games,
Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Hod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, 6s. Nor Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
Ids od. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is 6d.
%
ft
%
m
§
s
iik'
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
iMBRAcme
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand qu'-stions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Centurv edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
WT- BOOKSELLER TO THE. COMMONWEALTH.-*!
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS-LOVE
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Skcrrts and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How; to Vamp on Piano. Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Gaines), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. The White Slave Traffic, Is. Every
Max His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easj', Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits. Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Gd.
Self Instructor : Evert Man His Own Schoolmaster
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan's Engine Driver’s Guide,
os 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
othrs, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes. 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne. Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid,
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. f*F~ Established 95 Years.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Staye,
posted. New Tricks with Gauds, Is. Sappho, genum’
Is. Old Bush Bonos, Is 3d Dost. L>u. Milford* Mid-
wipe’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, es «■
Aristotle, 3/6. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems, compie .
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions ok •
Kino, Is 3d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. bu. I & , 9 ‘
History Court op England, Is 3d post. Lo\ >'■
Better Writer, Is. All About Incubators, l - •
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key jo
Decrees, New Edition, Is posted.
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, P
Inoersoll’s Works, Sd, 2s. How to R**®
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievassk s Adiic
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is pos •
Bf.nnarr Macfadden's Works, all at : ’ 9 P ~
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers an-
Boilers’ Assistant, is 3d. The Wipes Haii >
is 2d posted. Fruits ok Philosophy Is pw=t ; iw* * •
Recitations and Readings, Is 3u. Nervous ...
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webstbrs L hef
abridged Dictionary. 1700 pages, 1600 lllas.,
bound, my price, 16s post paid (why pa
guineas). ’ Bootmaking and Repairing, is -a-■ Al
MOS AND Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore s Umv *
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 101 ® p^ v0 ’ taNCI ;
bound. 10s 6d nested. The Secrets of Claievow i * .
Is pest. 200 Old-Ttme Songs (words and mus c c
plete). Is 6d posted. The Age op Reason by Pam*
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE 10 oa
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).


m
''A
'A
m
%
m
m
y/ssss
m
m
; m -~m7*2
ZAM-BUK is Cooling, Soothing and Healing.
The maddening smart of a bum or scald (and the fact that the action
of the air is injurious) calls for the immediate application of Zam-Buk.
Keep a pot of this soothing first-aid in the most-get-at-able place. The
kettle may boil over or lurch from the hob at any moment, and there is
daily risk of similar mishaps to men, women and children alike.
Lighting one’s pipe isn’t always safe and painless; lifting dishes from
the oven and washing up have their own warm surprises; and the young-
sters learn many painful lessons about playing with fire.
“A burnt child dreads the fire”—but if mother
has applied Zam-Buk it loves this pure, healing
balm ever afterwards. Zam-Buk is soothing and
cooling, and besides subduing pain and inflamma-
tion it helps to grow new skin. Much tissue is
often destroyed, and those who have watched a
burn or scald heal up under Zam-Buk’s beneficent
influence, have often marvelled at the wonderful
work resulting from the application of a balm
which works hand in hand with Nature so har-
moniously and effectively.
FOOT SCALDED WHILE COOKING.
® ou Slas, of Sussex Street, Lower N. Adelaide, writes:
f<w hl t en &agedl in the kitchen, I had the misfortune to scald my
rv ,„ a [ , R, different ointments, but at the end of a month
Rnt Tl stl }} rerrl amed bad. One day I bought a pot of Zam-
a few appii cations my foo t showed
, heal ins', and in a little while it was
completely well. lam exceedingly grateful
for what Zam-Buk has done for me,
and can recommend it as
a handy household
healer.”
ZAMBUK
Is excel*
lent for
outs,
burns,
s o a I d s,
b r u Ises,
e o zema,
boils, bad
leg’s and
other
I n J u red
and dls-
eased
o o n d I-
tions Of
the skin.
AU CHEMISTS
AND STORES.
$
r-X
*0 4*l*
■...Sk °" U S
c
a
v//;
/r iri
C
v/.v,
v.v
~ 'OH
* curs*
‘ bruises •
* ours • Pf22?£j “««»« .
is* SOB* ¥l*“ "MS M - sn./l* L * S - ECZEMA-
K\ W * W ®* « BAD 5
V\ * / *£Qf/jtU,r n CHAPPED HAHDS.jtewR
wtimts&oci TioH^JMQr
i *,
t
B
H»
j?Ss*
&
1/6
& 3/e
per pot
THE
QUESTION of the DAY.
The question of to-day,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding* day is
HAVE YOU USED PEARS* SOAP ?
If you Have not, you Have not
done your duty by your skin and
complexion. If, on tbe otber band
—tbat is, on botb bands, and on tbe
face, and on tbe skin generally—you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
bappy, for you will bave done tbe
best tbat possibly can be done tor
tbe skin’s bealtb and beauty. Tbere
can be no question about tbat.
PEARS bas been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years.
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
A Canticle of Hairpins, Bliss
and Beer.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
m HE ferry boat had wagged its tail
I At twenty river wharves or so •
The yellow light began to fail,
And night had all her stars a row
The water was a little pale,
Losing the sun s warm afterglow.
She was a very pleasant maid.
A pleasant maid and passing fair;
I saw her slender fingers braid
Anew her wisps of tumbled hair,
While little breezes seemed to raid
The sweets of gladness hidden there.
I should explain that we had not
Been introduced at all till now,
But one pure dimple’s rounded spot,
And all the sweetness of her brow
Had caused it to be quite forgot
I did not know her from a cow.
*
My hot soul leaped in sudden flame;
One crimpled hairpin at her feet
Had fallen. Was I much to blame
That I should bound from off my seat
And straight retrieve the thing that came
From such a hiding ruddy sweet?
She smiled. I almost wept to see
The puckered corners of her lips
Curve like the flower where some warm bee,
Poised on the tender petal tips,
A fragrant honey summer free
Out of a scarlet chalice sips.
I said, “Excuse me, I return
This happy piece of twisted wire.
Dropped from a place that need not. spurn
Its slender, hairy, young desire
To hold those living'flames that burn
My hot eyes with their splendid fire.”
She thanked me in a gracious way,
Her eyes dark-greenl.y looked in mine;
Again I saw the dimple play
Above her collar fair and fine ;
Like some tall flower she seemed to sway
Low from her bosom's curving line.
1 really thought she was a peach,
Indeed a special nectarine,
Or that soft fruit which Wowsers teach
Eve ate in Eden somewhat green ;
With wild enthusiastic speech
I made my admiration seen.
My head was all a-buzz with dreams.
Hot rapture seemed to swell my soul;
I was as one who really seems
To take this old world by the Pole,
And shake it out amid the streams
Of atom-stars that round it roll.
To shake it out that from the dust
Of duns and Wowsers that can choke
Its gladness more than moth and rust,
I might, as by a master-stroke,
Achieve the sort of joy that must
Appeal to any cheerful bloke.
She was such joy. Her rosy hair,
The eyes with which she looked on me,
Her white skin wonderful and fair.
The smile that set her dimple free,
All made mefiercely long to wear
Her beauty for the world to see.
I thought if such a flower were mine
The world had nothing left to give,
While kisses of her mouth like wine
Stung me with sweets. Then I could live
Holding more treasure than the nine
White Muses catch in Wonder’s sieve.
Rut just as I had said the last
Sweet thing that I could find to say,
A shadow on the dusk was cast.
And a large person swathed in grey
Of hairy whiskers happened past
And stole my rosy dream away.
The ferry steamer wagged its tail.
With linked arms I saw them go;
I felt ipv fancy turning pale
To think that luck should treat me so;
The evening suddenly grew stabs ,
I heard one white star laughing low.
But still I think about that girl.
And muse about the ways of fate,
While all my mdses start to whirl,
And often. I regret to state.
When beer has set mv heart a-curl.
I say, “The old bloke called her Kate.”
Girls come and go. the world is. wide.
Wild whiskers fill the thronging way,
And little crinkled hairnins glide
From hapny tresses blown astray ;
But hrown beer, veiled like a bride,
Kisses me many times a day.
N.S.W.
PAT O’MAORI.
Admiral’s Inspection.
AS SEEN BY JIM, A.B.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I OFTEN wonder whether Admiral’s
Inspection in the Australian Navy is
going to be a repetition of the red-
tape and poojah that has made me deadly
tired many a time in the main body of the
British Navee, and in the Australian Squad-
ron thereof. Dear old “Pinafore!” how
many times I’ve seen the very spirit
°f your Joseph Porter, K.C.8., in the pom-
pous flutterings of some admiral butterfly
and his obsequious followers.
No doubt you begin to imagine I’ve been
getting the spike. I have. I haven’t de-
serted—yet: but another week like the last,
and—well, there’ll be a vacancy among the
men who wear blue collars appliqud, with
white tape- for a budding Nelson or O’Hig-
gins or Beresford.
* « * *
j Well, those who are here will be able to
s 'ee soon whether Australia improves on
British traditions.
Anyway, here’s how things are done under
the direction of the dear old Jia Land.
When an Admiral’s going to inspect a
ship he gives the Captain a hint a good
a\ hi 1 e before the interesting event is to take
place, and when the time’s getting close he
has a signal made that he’ll inspect the ship
on a certain day, instead of dropping in any
"Id time, as anyone would who hadn’t the
tiaditions of some hundreds of years to live
up to.
A signal came over last week that the
inspection would take place the day before
yesterday. It hadn’t been aboard more than
10 minutes before the skipper had everyone
alt to tell them all about it. Then he did
the usual bit of leg-pulling, said he knew he
had a smart ship’s company, and would like
them to show the Admiral what they could
do.
Then the Commander took a hand. He
had both watches fallen in, and told off for
painting and cleaning ship.
* * *
ihis is where Putty—the ship’s painter—
earns his money.
The Captain of each top—there are four
ot them comes along and demands all the
brushes and pots available for his hands.
Putty divides them and serves them out.
Then the Petty Officer in charge of the
men puts in an appearance and wants
some. After some growling and searching
Cutty generally manages to find a few he
didn t know he had.
After a time the Commander comes along,
and reckons the hands are not getting on
fast enough, and tells them to get more
brushes and paint.
Putty says he has no more.
Then the Commander comes along ramp-
ing, and wants to know why he has no
more.
Putty tells him the ship is only allowed
forty a year, and he has already served out
fifty.
The Commander tells him that if he can’t
get another forty, he isn’t fit to hold the rat-
ing of ship’s painter.
Just as the Commander is finishing, the
Engineer comes up. and wants to know why
his hands can’t have brushes and paint.
And so on, and so on.
» * * •
It’s through painting ship that my booz-
ing chum. Dusty Miller, couldn’t come
ashore with me to-day. And he won’t for a
good many more days, for that matter.
Two of them were painting stanchions.
Dusty came to one in the middle of the
deck, and for a joke—so he said —only did
half of it, leaving the other side for bis mate
to do.
When the Petty Officer in charge of the
party came along and saw it. he said, “Well,
I’ve heard of marines doing a thing like
that, but I never thought a man wearing a
blue collar would be guilty of it.”
Dusty, who had a fat head from the night
before, thought he called him a marine, got
a bit excited, and started to argue the point
and wave his arms about. It was a pity
that he was holding the paint-brush in his
hand —and that it caught the P.O. under
the ear.
What happened to Dusty?
Oh. he got ninety days for “striking his
superior, officer whilst in the execution of
his office.”'
* * * *
We had just finished painting when we
had to coal ship, and, as I’ve noticed very
often, wet paint and coal-dust stick closer
than brothers. A bit of caustic shifted the
dust all right, but a good bit of paint came
with it.
The last time 1 heard the Commander
talking to Putty he was threatening to dis-
rate him for not mixing his paint properly.
• * • •
Then we had three solid days holystoning
and scrubbing, and there wasn’t a dry spot
in the ship.
It wouldn’t have been so bad if we could
have had a decent night ashore, but all
leave was up at ten every night, and that
only leaves time for a bite and a couple of
drinks.
* * * *
Yesterday morning—the morn of the great
day—there was a spasm.
The cook refused to cook anything for
breakfast because he had cleaned up the
galley ready for the Admiral to inspect.
The mess stools had been scrubbed and
stowed away so that nobody would sit on
them. The cook of the mess refused to wet
any tea because he had polished the kettle
so that the Admiral could see his face in it
—if he wasn’t ashamed of his face.
I looked in at the canteen to see if I
could get anything to eat. The only thing
Jose had for sale was tinned peas. A tin
with half a loaf of bread didn’t make a bad
breakfast.
• * * *
I went down to the bag-flat a bit early to
get changed into the rig of the day, and
would have had a scrap with the bag-flat
sweeper—if he hadn’t been bigger than me.
I got out my best duck suit —one I.’d been
saving for a long time specially to see the
Ydmiral—and put it on top of the bag-rack,
not noticing that it had just had a coat of
black paint.
When I found out, I may have called tb<
«weeper a fool, but he needn’t have
made such a fuss about my wiping off the
paint on his face. . T
I had my revenge, though. As soon as I
got on the upper deck I was told off to go
round with a pot of paint end touch up any
dirty spots. I did —also, any places that
looked as though someone would like to leaD
up against them.
* * * *
An Admiral is about the eighth person tt
inspect a ship. Its own officers have had
separate goes at inspecting long before he
arrives. , ' , ’' i, , *
First the Gunner has to walk round to see
that no one has taken a six-inch gun ashore
When he’s satisfied that they aie complete,
he goes and gets the Gunnery Lieutenant
and they go round together, followed by a
Gunnery Instructor. , , .
Then the Bo’s’n studies the wash-deck
lockers to see that the holystones are stowed
square and the broom-handles are straight.
(Continued on next page.)


“WHY AM I ALWAYS ILL?”
There are many people who seem to be always taking medicine and yet are always ailing
The reason is this: They do not take the right kind of medicine.
There is no medicine that cures all diseases. It is no use taking a kidney
and bladder remedy for constipation, liver complaint or lung troubles, neither is it any
good taking ordinary medicine for kidney and bladder troubles.
Doan s Backache Kidney Pills are solely for the kidneys and bladder. They do
not interfere with the liver, stomach or bowels; all their healing properties go to the
kidneys and urinary system. They are therefore the best medicine known for uric acid
troubles, dropsy, urinary disorders, over-activity of the bladder, pain in seeking relief,
gravel and stone, pains in the back and loins, rheumatism, lumbago and sciatica, for
these ailments arise from urinary poisons left in the blood by weak kidneys. Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills cleanse and regulate the kidneys and bladder like ordinary
medicines regulate the bowels.
SB
" Every
picture
tells a
story."
PROVED BY SYDNEY TESTIMONY.
FIVE. YEARS CURED.
Mr. R. Spring, Park Gate Hotel, Parramatta, says :—“I make the follow-
ing statement so that other sufferers may know that there is an unfailing
cure for backache in Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. Off and on for many
years I suffered torture from a bad back; pains would catch me across the
loins, and I could not stand up straight. I was frequently laid up for days at
a time. I consulted doctors, but their treatment was ineffectual. I used
dozens of remedies, but it was only waste of time and money. At last I was
advised by a friend to try Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, so got some at once,
and I am pleased to say this wonderful remedy cured me, and I feel a different
m u D " 1S ££and to be free of backache, and I am grateful to Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills for my cure.”
Five years later Mr. Spring says : —“The above statement is true, every
word, and I can now add the important fact that lam still well to-day. Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills deserve praise. I will alwmys recommend them.”
SIX YEARS CURED.
Mrs. I. V. Richards, Earlswood,” Rawson Street, St. Leonards, says-
'h or about twelve months I was a martyr to kidney complaint. At times I
used to cry out with the terrible pains in my back, and I could not do my
housework. Many a time I have had to get a neighbor to come and rub my
back with liniment. I was treated by a doctor for a considerable time, but he
did me no good. I heard that Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills were curing
similar cases, and decided to try them. They gave me relief at once, and a
course of the Pills perfectly cured me. It is four years since I was cured, and
I have never had any return of the complaint. I can do my housework now
without constant torture. I cannot speak too highly of Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills.”
Two .years later Mrs. Richards says:—“lt is now six years since Doans
Backache Kidney Pills cured me of backache and kidney trouble, and I have
had no return of these ailments during all that time.”
DOAN'
Backache
Kidney
PIUS.
At all Chemists and Stores, 2/9
per bottle (six bottles, 15/3),
or from Foster-McClellan Co.,
76 Pitt Street , Sydney.
The Engineer has a look to see that the
funnels are in line and the sirens have been
properly polished.
The Carpenter comes up to see that the
carpenter’s crew have scrubbed the bench
thoroughly and stowed it away properly.
Then the Commander comes round, and
with the assistance of the Chief Bo’s’n’s
Mate manages to find fault with most
things.
If the Captain is satisfied with the re-
ports, he just has a glance from the bridge.
You may happen to be perishing from
thirst, or to have left your boots down in
your mess, but to try and get down on to
the mess-deck now would be to risk your life,
because the deck-cloths have been taken up,
and no foot must touch that sacred space
until the Admiral has seen it.
A boat borrowed from another ship comes
alongside. In it are stowed all the dirty
deck-cloths and odds and ends —in fact,
everything that would offend the eye of an
Admiral —and it is sent away out of sight.
* * * *
As the Admiral is expected on board
about 10 a.m., they sound off and divisions
fall in at nine.
First the Petty Officer musters the divi-
sion, and reports to the Officer who isn’t
Petty. After a while the Officer comes
along and says : “ ’Shun. Stand —at —ease.
’Shun. Off hats. On hats. Stand —at —
ease. ’Shun. Off hats. On hats.”
“Why do you take your hats off?”
“Oh, that’s to show you respect your
Officers.
After the divisions have been standing
there for half an hour or so, the band comes
up and gets ready to play the Admiral on
board.
In another half-hour or so we can see that
there’s a stir on the flagship, and its band
comes up.
Then the excitement begins to rise. An-
other stir, and everyone on the flagship’s
quarter-deck turns expectantly towards a
hatch. All spring to “attention” like one
man. The officers salute, and a little man,
covered with gold braid, steps slowly out on
to the deck, looks gravely round, and after
seeing that everyone is paying him proper
respect, returns the salute. Then a sigh of
relief goes up, and they begin to move about
like human beings once more.
After a while the Admiral is reminded
that he has an inspection to make, and
allows his boat to be called away. As he
loaves the flagship for ours, its band strikes
up “Rule Britannia.”
M hen he gets close to our ship, our band
strikes up “Rule Britannia.”
As he comes up the gangway the bugler
sounds the “Still,” which is a sign for every-
one to stop breathing, and the performance
that was gone through on the flagship is
repeated.
The inspection now starts.
.The Admiral with his staff takes our Cap-
tain with his mob in tow. First they go
round the storerooms, then have a look at
the mess-deck, and finally the upper deck,
on which it is ouite likely the Admiral will
notice the crew is standing.
As the procession gets past each division,
the strained expression leaves their faces,
and they look as pleased as Dusty will when
he has finished that 90 days and gets a grip
on a pint again.
When the Admiral gets within ten yards
of a division the officer in charge of it says,
“ ’Shun,” and the division “ ’Shuns,” then
“Off—hats.”
The procession is very imposing.
First comes the Admiral, accompanied—
no, not accompanied—followed by the Cap-
tain, who keeps deferentially one pace to
the rear, ready to answer questions.
After the Captain come the Flag-Captain
and Commander, followed by the Ship’s
Commander, with the Flag Gunnery, Ship’s
Gunnery and Torpedo Lieutenants close up.
Then comes the Fleet Paymaster and
Ship’s Paymaster, doing the gridiron move-
ment with the Fleet Surgeon and two Ship’s
Doctors, while the Fleet Engineer and the
Engineer Commander do a bit of circular
steaming round the crowd.
Now the lesser lights heave in sight.
The Gunner, the Bo’s’n and the Carpenter
come in a bunch, followed by the Chief
Bo’s’n’s Mate, Chief Quartermaster and the
Master-at-Arms, who is accompanied by a
couple of ship’s corporals. (We won’t give
them capitals. They might get proud.)
The rearguard consists of half a dozen
messengers and the bugler.
I’m damn glad we don’t carry marines, or
that would add another half-dozen to the
procession.
The Admiral didn’t like the way our divi-
sion took off its hats or something, so he
said to the Skipper : “Smith-Jones, do these
men wear uniform flannels?” The Skipper
didn’t know, so he asked the officer of the
division, who, not being certain, asked the
Petty Officer. The P.O. thought for a
minute, then his face lit up, and anyone
could see that he had an Idea. Then he
whispered something to the officer, who
looked a bit anxious, but passed it oh to the
Skipper. He looked relieved, and said to
the Admiral: “Don’t you think it would be
a good thing, sir, to have this division take
off their jumpers?” The Admiral seemed
struck with the brilliance of it, and said,
“Yes, a very good idea.”
Then the order was given. “Off jumpers.”
That P.O. will lose his rate before this
commission is finished, because, when the
mob had got their jumpers off, there, to
everbody’s horror and dismay, stood two
men who had on flannel shirts that were not
of a uniform pattern.
The Admiral made no remark, but simply
looked at the shirts and then at the Skip-
per. as much as to say, “So this is what the
British Navy is coming to!”
The P.O. looked as though he would like
to have fallen on his knees and cried. “For-
give me, Captain, for I knew not what I
did.” He always was a sniveller though.
* * * *
When the party has been right round the
ship the next thing to do is muster bv the
ledger,_ which means that everyone whose
name is on the ship’s book has to answer to
it.
First, the Carpenters are piped to rig up
a table on the quarterdeck, then three feet
in front of it chalk a circle on the deck,
and six feet in front of that chalk a line.
The ship’s book is then brought up, and
the ship’s company marched up, the first
section toeing the line.
The Paymaster then reads out the first
name. The owner of it takes two paces for-
ward—which should bring him into the
centre of the circle (we’re very exact in the
navy)—lifts his right hand across his face,
grabs his cap over the left ear, and brings it
down to his side, and then answers in a loud
clear voice with his number, name and
everything he is paid for, all the time look-
ing the Admiral in the face according to
orders.
It goes something like this: “John
Smith.” John steps up, takes off his cap,
and says: “Number 179. sir. Able seaman,
seaman gunner, trained man, two good con-
duct badges,” swings his cap into position,
turns smartly to the right, and marches off.
The reason he takes his cap on the left
side with his right hand is that it brings
the name of the ship to the front, and if the
Admiral should forget the name of the ship
he is on, he has only to look down to see it.
Oh, yes, they’ve have had some geniuses
in the Navy to think of these things.
* * * *
After the muster was finished the hands
were piped to shift into a working rig, and
went to drill and evolutions just to show the
Admiral what we could do. A dav and a
half of it we’ve just had. All for one little
man.
I’m glad the band played “Rule Britan-
nia” when the Admiral left, because it made
me feel sure I would never be a slave.
B. M. LEVER.
The Dear Departed Dog.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
[N every house there’s a barking ghost
with a large and ample tail;
To every visitor, old or new, the song
of its life is stale ;
A decade has passed since it scratched and
yelped, and howled at the moonlit sky ;
But the family still recount its deeds, and
argue, and moan, and sigh ;
There never was such a faithful dog. “Oh,
the looks that he used to give !”
They shake their heads in a hopeless way
and wonder how they can live
Now “poor dear Snarlo” is under the earth
and out of Life’s fevered chase,
For no other dog in the world of dogs can
leap to his honored place.
The kennel is there and the chain is there.
(The collar is on the shelf;
But not even mother, who loved him most,
would dare to wear it herself.)
The visitor clutches his ice-cold knees and
listens with great respect;
For none may scoff when family groups at
the shrine of a dog collect.
’Tis the holiest thing these worldlings know
• —lie would be a bounding hog
Who aimed a brutal, ill-mannered jest at the
Dear Departed Dog.
So every night in a thousand homes a thou-
sand visitors wince
When Father talks in his ponderous wav
the cuteness of “dear old Prince” S 01
And Mother quite tearfully vouches ’for hi,
most magnificent lies, u
While the family flappers sit entranced
whisper, and roll their eyes ’ ancl
The son of the house on his pipe-stem bites '
lie is oh ! so strong and brave' '
And he tersely states lmw he saved “nbi
Prince” from the wild and salted wave
Phe family worship him silently while lie
tells this well-worn yarn,
And as they are under their own roof-tree
there are none to murmur “Gam 1 ” ’
The visitor clasps his idle hands and lie nod,
at his footwear bright
As he mourns for the dog he never knew in
order to be polite.
Then he yearns to show that he has a Heart
so lie fakes a show of grief,
And ev ry soul of them blithers awav till
their full hearts find relief.
Then Father winds up in a solemn strain
“I’m not a religious man,
But I say that dog had a Soul! Yes sir'
Deny it if you can !” ’ r '
The visitor murmurs, amidst applause, that
he’s sure the old dog had.
(No stranger would trouble to disagree un-
less he was raving mad.)
The worshipping family still sit round and
the old dog stays quite dead ;
The visitor stares at his radiant socks and
paws at his well-greased head.
Till somebody thinks of another yarn the
visitor hasn’t heard
And three flappers start to tell it at once—
the effect is most absurd.
But Father heavily claims the right and the
family all withdraw.
While the haggard visitor sits and stares,
supnorting a listener’s jaw.
So the night draws on to its boresome close—
you can smell the coming day,
When the victim backs to the dew-wet gate
and joyfully speeds'away.
The family sadly go to bed, never dreaming
that each vain boast
Was another bark in the progress grim of
their cursed, four-legged ghost.
Dogs come and go like the winter’s snow, so
the wise man calmly jogs
Never giving more than a passing thought to
the best of long-dead dogs;
And he spends no hours in futile grief while
his family mope around
Reviewing for some cowed, visiting wretch
the shade of the Perfect Hound.
Lo! the Great Man goes to his well-earned
rest and his fame is shredded fine;
But no one may blacken the sacred name of
the cur that used to whine.
I crave not the honor that Caesar won, for
they tell the truth of kings,
And the smallest sin that a monarch does
through the steel-bound annals rings.
I would have the fame of the family cur—
the worship that never dies.
The deep affection of homely folk and the
stirring, well-believed lies,
The tribute of futile suburban nights till the
circle slips a cog.
I want but the equal of what they give to
the Dear Departed Dog.
N.s.w.
KIDAK.


VA/
Oil Engine
From 7 to 40 H.P.
No Carburettor or Vaporiser. No Ignition Apparatus.
Makes the following, claims upon
your attention—
For STATIONARY
and MARINE
PURPOSES
1- —lt uses cheap lamp oil (such as kerosene)* and
other residuals.
2 The oil is injected directly into the _ cylinder,
thus dispensing' with unreliable and inefficient
vaporisers.
3 —lt is yery simple in con-
struction, there being no
electric ignition or other
complicated mechanism.
4 Its speeds are such that
electric generators and
centrifugal pumps may
be coupled direct.
5 No skilled labor is re-
quired, the supply of
fuel and lubricant
being all the atten-
tion necessary.
'•i
■ ■■
FULL PARTICULARS FROM
The Westinghouse Brake Company of Australasia Ltd.,
GEORGE STREET, CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
New Zealand Agents: Philips & Pike, Wellington.
E * -■
•/>
Fairbanks-Morse
Marine Engines
For Pleasure and Work Boats
.Start without cranking, run smoothly, de-
velop full rated power. Simple, compact.
All parts interchangeable. Remarkable for
their reliability and economy. High Speed
Engines, 3% to 24 H.P. Slow Speed
Engines, 7% to 15
Ask for Catalog
CV 1939.
Fairbanks-Morse Oil Engines
Operate on Kerosene, Petrol (Gasoline) or Distillate.
Stationary and Portable sizes, 2 to 200 H.P.
Ask for Catalog AT. 1939.
Fai r b a n k s-M o r s e Eclipse Engines
Small, sturdy Engines, especially suited for
pumping or running light machinery.
Simple, compact. Two sizes. Will operate
any windmill pump. Ask for Catalog 1939
v K.
p
■ess-
Type
"K”
7^H.P.
Fairbanks, Morse &
Chicago, ill., US. A.
AGENTS-
C. H. Relph, Webster S Co. Ltd., Mallach Bros.»
Sydney, N.S.W. Brisbane, Queensland. Perth, W.A.
THE STIRLING WATER TUBE BOILER
ALSO AGENTS FOR-
FOR
High Efficiency
AND
Perfect Safety.
We carry Boilers in Stock for Immediate
Delivery, and Quote for Erection
and Brickwork.
We are Sole Agents, and Contract for
Complete Power Plants with Guar-
anteed Results.
Nichols Boiler Feed Pumps, Bolinder Woodworking Machinery,
Dewrance Steam Valves.
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
lB9 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
GOLDFIELDS DIAMOND DRILLING CO. Pty.Ltd.
331 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Works—Sturt St., S. Melbourne.
Ojrnc
WWSMROSIWI
ZK..
rumely tractor.
Works continuously on CHEAPEST Kerosene
BORING CONTRACTORS
and MANUFACTURERS.
Armstrong Traction and All-Steel Boring
Machines, Tools and Casing in stock.
Gasoline and Kerosene Engines; Wind-
mills, Pumps, Silos, Hay Presses,
Wagons, etc., etc.
THE LONE HAND
A Monthly
_ for everything
Australian.
Beecham’s
Pills
have done so much, at! over the world, to make dyspeptic people healthy that
and success are a matter of course. The ingredients of which
the World s Household Remedy is composed are the very substances provided
by Nature herself for the cure of indigestion and similar ailments. It is
evident, therefore that Beecham's Pills
Will Do You
more good than other preparations not composed of the same healing proper-
ties. So, whenever you find your stomach or liver the least bit out of order
just take a dose of Beecaam's Pills and put yourself right. This is an easy
safe, simple, and sensible way of maintaining your health. Beecham's Pills
will always do you
A World of Good.
Sold everywhere In boxes, price W\ (56 pills) * 2/9 (168 pills).
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
. . . AT . . .
THE BANKING HOUSE, 228 Pitt Street,
Opposite PALACE THEATRE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LENDS MONEY ON ALL SECURITIES, including Furniture,
FROM 10 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
FRED. McWILLIAM, Manager.
:>
ii
20th Century Band Saw.
KIRCHNERS
Woodworking Machines
are giving satisfaction.
Write for Catalogue and Information
direct to the
MANUFACTURERS—
KIRCHNER & GO.,
32 Market Street, SYDNEY
Automatic
Knife Grinding
Where is the Car to Equal
The METZ “22” at £185?
Where is the car at any price that can do nearly as well? Think of the
economy of it! Think of the saving in cost of running! Think of the
satisfaction of running a car that leaves your mind free to enjoy the pleasure
without bothering about “mileage cost and upkeep.”
Its simplicity captivates everyone who knows anything about thoroughbred
motor-car construction. It certainly will appeal to you, from considerations
quite apart from the price. It is stylish, comfortable and durable —a car
that delivers the maximum of economy and efficiency.
Investigate. Get the facts, so that you may compare it with cars costing
even t\Vice as much. Details on request, and trial trips to prove it. Price,
£lB5 complete.
BROWN 8 HELLICAR LTD.,
375 KENT STREET (Between King
and Market Streets), SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 4352.
SUFFERERS from that cruel, stubborn, nerve-
racking, skin disease, ECZEMA, need no longer
face its terrible pangs with doubts or misgivings.
“ISO,” the remarkable Eczema Ointment—the remedy
which has cured scores of cases—is within easy reach
of all. The inventors are Chemists of wide repute,
practising in your midst. They use “ISO” daily in
treating patients. Write them at once for a free
sample of “ISO,” enclosing three penny stamps, to
partly cover postage and packing. Their address is:
. J. S. BLACK & SONS,
Smith Street, Collingwood, Vic.
METZ CARS,
WAVERLEY GARS,
INDIAN MOTOCYCLES.
A CORRESPONDENT writes: “There is
always one feature in The Lone
Hand each month that is alone worth the
price charged for the whole number.” The
price of The Lone Hand is 6d.
Leads tbe World for Efficiency
and Economy in Timber Cutting.
That’s why you’ll appreciate a Waterous, Circular or Band Mill. That’s
why the Waterous holds the speed and production records. That’s why the
Waterous will be-found in every timber country of the world.
There isn’t any secret about it. In every line someone has to lead. Some-
one has to be better than the rest. Someone gets the cream of the business
and has more opportunities for improvement. In Mills the Waterous people
have consistently kept to the front. We’d like to go into details with you.
The Waterous expert on our staff has a very wide knowledge of mill
machinery and erection. He’ll be glad to discuss matters with you person-
ally or by post.
We also stock Circular Saw Benches, Panel Planers, 3 and 4 Cutter
Planers, Spindle Moulders, Chain Mortisers, Tenoning Machines,
Sanders, Dove Tailers, etc.
CASH or TERMS.
T. M. GOOD ALL & CO. LTD.
Universal Machinery Merchants,
303-5 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Fire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for oiir Catalogue, or call and inspect,
MACK LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
\
ft
I 2in. Fan
taking
45 Watts.
FANS
For All Voltages
and Systems.
Stocked in Desk, Wall and Ceiling Types.
Rigid Body, Swivel and Trunnion, and Oscillating Patterns.
PRICES MODERATE. Send for List's.
tdteE BMWe ®
OF AUSTRALIA Lta*
SYDNEY: Wynyard Lane.
MELBOURNE: 61 William Street.
Corner Saul 8 Roma Streets.
3520 City.
5117 City.
3576 Central
Hardie’s Genuine
e/stf/t4iYy//s7/£
Used in place of Weatherboards and Plaster
for Walls, Ceilings and Partitions.
FIRE, ROT, HEAT, ACID 8 ANT PROOF.
ERECTED COST SAME AS
WEATHERBOARDS.
Our '2O-page Booklet B free on application.
JAMES HARP IE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney;
and at Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
EN
1
WOLFES
SK
CONSIDE
NEWALL’S HAGNESIA SECTIONAL
STEAH PIPE & BOILER COVERINGS
Ensure the Maximum
Efficiency,
Showing a
iving of nearly 50%
coverings.
82 PITT STREET , SYDNEY.
MBhBQUF&MEi BRISBANE and PERTH.
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRON FOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Valves, Rumps, Fluming,
Patent “ Nelyambo ” Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Fluming, Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought iron Work,
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Cordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
I
HigH-grade Tools lor
Modern Machine Shop Equipment,
KEMPSMITH
Plain & Universal Milling Machines
to-day stand as the type of highest development in Milling Machine construction, and we can confidently
recommend them as Machines of the highest efficiency in the RAPID PRODUCTION OF ACCURATE WORK.
They are designed to meet the greatly increased strains imposed by modern milling methods, and are therefore
capable of CONTINUED SERVICE AT THE FULL EFFICIENCY OF HIGH-SPEED CUTTERS.
We invite inspection of our stock of these Modern Tools, also High-Grade
SHaping, Planing, Drilling, Screwing and Grinding Machines.
High-speed QuicK Change Gear Engine Lathes and all Engineers' Requisites.
9
' ll il'V »
Engineers
60 Clarence St.
f Merchants,
, Sydney.
The ALBANY Patent Water-sealed Rotary Pump
PATENTED IN ALL COUNTRIES.
The most important feature of these pumps is the fact that slip and leakage have been reduced to a minimum by the introduction of cu*
along the faces and edges of the teeth, so that, in rotating, a body of water lodges in the grooves, forming an absolute, sealed, water-tight joint or
cushion between the casing and rotating rollers, thereby producing an efficient vacuum.
The position of the pump has become assured wherever electrically-driven pumps are required; and in the improved type all wear is eliminated
from the internal members by the introduction of steel spur wheels, fitted in a suitable gear box outside the pump cover—and by means of which
the whole of the Power is Transmitted. __
NO SHILLED MECHANIC REQUIRED. NO VALVES REQUIRED.
Suitable for boiler feed, deep wells, hot liquids, boiling soap, oil, tar, crude petroleum, fats, and other liquids of high gravity, also gas exhauster*.
The smaller sizes are specially adapted for forced lubrication.
All Sizes from I to 6 ificHes Stocked.
Sole
Agents
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., -Sydney & Melbourne.
