

Machinery Merchants, 107 Kloxxt: Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in ail parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes of SECURITY.
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
N.S.W. MONT DE PIETE D. & I. CO., LTD.,
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAQH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite National Amphitheatre. Telephone: No. 225 Central.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
And at
29 King Street, Newcastle,* N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
jjadley’s Orient jjotel.
“fIUEEN OF STATES”
X bacon and HAMS.
QUEENSLAND CO-OP. BACON CO. LTD, BRISBANE.
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING V.
Goahantkkd
«/. C. Ludowici & Son, Ld.
117 YOftq STREET, SYDNEY.
HAMS
BACOH
&
up
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
32 RECIPES
for preparing a variety of the most
dainty Desserts with
HANSENS
will be forwarded, Post Free to Any
Address, on application to
T. 8., Box 577, C.P.0., Sydney.
PALMER CORD TYRES
\
, '
are specially constructed to ensure Long Service.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO.,
SYDNEY—MELBOURNE—NEW CASTLE
t
#
t
Royal
Dutch
COCOA.
SUPERIOR
IN
EVERY WAY.
Roofing.
Malthoid stands out as a perfect Roofing. It has all the qualities that a Roofing material should
have. It is absolutely waterproof. It is easy to lay. It does not rust, chip, crack nor break.
When properly laid it stays laid, despite storms and winds and weathers of all sorts. The freight
on it is light, and the cost of it is less than most other roofings. It is used on most of the
LARGEST buildings erected in Australia during the last decade—mightn’t it be the RIGHT
roof for YOUR building?
The Paraffine Paint Co., challis house, Sydney.
(D. S. EVANS, Australasian Manager.)
Manufacturers of Amiwud. Agents Everywhere.
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
*
B
GOLD LABEL
WHITE LABEL
LXTP.A
SPECIAL
tewWay
air-cooled
BENZINE
ENGINE.
You cannot stand still; you must progress
or go back.
The “ New-Way ” means development, im-
provement and progress. Which way are you
going ? Write for Catalogue and learn all about
it, and remember that progress means economy,
not spending more money for the same result.
Mat-Virtue I'!!
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
352 K ENT
(near King Street),
STREET
SYDNEY.
helidon spa
Please choose your “SPA" carefully.
You may be penalised otherwise.
STARKEYS LTD., Agents,
Phi/lip St., Sydney, and Redtern
The Bulletin
Vol. 34.—N0. 1763.]
[Thursday, November 27, 1913.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper


NEW NOVELS
(Postages shown
in parentheses.)
A New Book, by the Author of “The Rosary.”
Barclay’s THE BROKEN HALO. 3/6 (3d.)
(Very considerably in advance of her former “ Best Sellers ”).
Hitchens’ Vay of Ambition, 3/6
Chambers’ The Business of Life, 3/6 (3d )
Peterson’s The Lure of the Little Dnim, 3/6 (3d.).
Bassett’s Midsummer Wooing, 5/- (4d.).
Glyn’s The Sequence, 3/C (3d.).
Wilson's Bunker Bean, 3/6 (3d.).
Wells’ Passionate Friends, 3/6 (3d.).
Hewlett’s Bendish, 3/6 (3d.).
At GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP’T’Y, LTD., 238 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Hudson’s EUMENTHOL Tooth
■i
SECURES SOUND
WHITE TEETH.
This Powder is not only an Antiseptic and
Germicide, but cleanses mechanically, owing
to the evolution of free active oxygen when
the powder is in contact with water or the
oral fluids. It is the oxygen which, by neu-
tralising the acid-producing organisms of de-
cav, and dissolving mischievous deposits,
whitens the teeth so wonderfully, and wards
off decav as no other preparation for the
Teeth can or will do. Scientists agree that
a powder is superior to any liquid or paste
for cleansing and preserving the Teeth. The
Committee of the British Dental Association
recommend powder as best for the Teeth.
■HOW TO USE THE FOWDER.i
esc
A r,T c O
Sold by all Chemists in our patent stopper metal bottles, handy for
travel or home, price 1/6, forwarded free on receipt of stamps.
Hudson’s Eumenthol Chemical Co. Ltd., i9YorkSt., Sydney.
Forwarded Free, our New Book containing valuable inlormation
regarding the Teeth.
Powder
The Red Page
Four Novels
Julien Benda’s L’Ordination, translated
by Gilbert Cannan under the title The Yoke
of Pity (Unwin, per Dymock’s Library), is
a remarkable study of the male intellect in
the toils of (1) the Strange Female, and
(2) the Too Familiar Family. Benda takes
a philosopher of the highest type of creative
mentality and shows him enslaved by his
pity for the woman with Avhom he carries on
the usual French liaison. Freed from that en-
tanglement, he marries, and has one weak-
ling child. Here the old conflict between
the masculine intellect and love reappears in
more tragic form; for it is not the mere
female that destroys him, but the family.
His brief infatuation for the first woman
fades, and he finds himself bound to her by
the need of him that he had deliberately
created in her. Her very weakness and
dependence on him bind him in chains that
increasingly gall. At length she sees that
the idyll is over.
They went home slowly, silently, horribly
in accord, bound together, as though they
were carrying between them the coffin of
their child....At last he came to detest
woman with her childish mind, her childish
desires, her- childish eyes, her childish fea-
tures, and her way of dragging a man ifito
her childish tricks, and forcing him to see
the greatest things in a sensual, tender,
pretty aspect.... And he detested women
for the lewdness of their hearts, always
ready to give, to devote themselves, with-
out reserve. And people admire them for
it! As if they had anything else to do
but to give themselves to others, being, as
they are, nothing by themselves! As if it
were not a form of egoism in them ! And
he detested their horrible power—-which is
also admired —of losing sight of reason foy a
moment’s joy!
He caught himself wishing for the
woman’s death—and all the while he loved
her, pitied her, the more deeply. His veins
had been filled with the poison of pity.
Madeline.... was all women, the highest
and the lowliest, she stood for all the crea-
tures of weakness and servitude. And what
she had done was what they would all have
done, what they would always do. Always
madly, fiercely, they would cling to the free,
strong man, who, alone among men, would
regard them as other than a prey, and give
them a little gentleness, a little love. And
always, at the same time, in obedience to a
secret instinct, they would strive surrep-
titiously to abolish in him the springs of
force and liberty.... and to develop in him
the worship of the heart, to give free play
in it for the powers of weakness and vassal-
age. And always in his happiness the man
would at, first submit, unsuspectingly, dis-
armedly; more than that! he would at first
himself set about destroying his strength
and enthroning his weakness because he had
been —strong though he was—because he had
been —free though he was —brought up in
the aesthetic of the weak and the servile;
because there is no other aesthetic. And
always in his happiness the mail would come
near to yleath because in his enjoyment he
had exhausted his infinite sensibility, because
he had chosen to weep with the unhappy
without being accustomed, as they are, to
tears; because, in fine, he would feel pity.
For pity is death.... But if he knew it, it
was because he had really felt pity,' because
his heart had been cleft by the unhappy
woman’s misery....
Pity is death. And he wished to live.
Then he would be hard. He freed himself
—only to find himself under a more bitter
yoke—the yoke of his family. With a
charming wife and his weakling child he
attempts to escape the tentacles of family
love. But he finds that he> cannot shut off
his intellect, with its arduous and absorbing
creative work, from his emotions. His
family begins to absorb him by the first ill-
ness of his child. «
Then in a flash he saw his whole life
crumbling away, his whole being confiscated
by love.. .It was the collapse of his dreams,
a declension into the most violent, the
richest, the most sorrowful love.
For his child was i 11.... and he passion-
ately loved his child. And she would always
carry the marks of her affliction, and she
would always need him. Through her he
is led back from his grimly guarded self to
a merging of his identity with those of his
wife and his child. The family swallows
him up, engulfs him by the bait of his love.
“I have my child, even as the beasts
of the forest, even as the beasts of the
field.... To-morrow I shall be only a thing
that loves.”
A conclusion eminently satisfactory—to
everyworpan.
In his preface to the 13th French edition
the author answers the obvious criticism that
the conflict he had set up between intellec-
tual activity and the life of the heart, and
his declaration of the impossibility of their
co-existence, is arbitrary, artificial, con-
trived—that it is quite pqssible to live an
intellectual life and at the same time to love
a sick child. He points out that the man
was the embodiment of intellectual activity
at the highest pressure—that, practically,
he was a genius. And his contention is
borne out. But the moral, in our opinion,
survives. The passions and also the atmo-
sphere of family life do enchain and subvert
the masculine intellect in any of its higher
manifestations. The influence is merely one
of degree.
Finally, it is to be said that Jtienda writes
with the fine lucidity of style, the remorse-
lessness of psychology and the poignancy of
pathos that marks French literature.
J*
Robert Hitchens’ The Way of Ambition
(Methuen, per George Robertson, Sydney)
over-elaborates an interesting theme. It is
the story of a selfishly ambitious girl, who,
being unable to achieve anything by herself,
fastens upon a musical genius, marries tuna,
and proceeds to “push” him into prominence.
Her devotion to his interests is prompted
solely by her selfish desire to shine as the
wife of a successful composer. His genius
does not lead him toward grand opera, but
his wife gets hold of a libretto, shuts him
up in his room, and keeps five servants quiet
while “the master is working.” Of course,
the master isn’t working. ’ But she persists,
and hauls him off to Africa —in Hitchens’
novels all roads lead to the Sahara—and,
after fearful efforts, her husband and
she manage to snare an impresario to pro-
duce the opera in New York. Here Hitchens
has evidently used his experiences of produc-
ing in that city The Garden of Allah, with
an overplus of realism that refused to realise
itself on the stage. The opera fails, and the
fierce harpy of a wife, who had hoped to
batten royally on his genius, goes hungry.
But though the moral is right, the presenta-
tion of the theme is cluttered up with weari-
some “brilliant” conversation. There are,
however, several characters, obviously studied
from life, that are delightfully perceived;
and the dramatic interest of the production
of the opera is wonderfully well kept up.
Hitchens has travelled far from his earlier
work, and on his way he has gradually light-
ened himself from the individual audacities
that once made that work so intriguing.
Now he appears as the average novelist,
capable of working out, a little dully, a
modern theme.
Trites. Yes, Trites. Kindly remember
the name : W. B. Trites. However, it may
not be necessary : it may be difficult for the
fiction-reader to forget it. That is, if W. B.
Trites can write another novel as fresh, as
stimulating, as frank, as delicate, and as
brilliantly written as Life (Wyman and
Sons, London). On his title page he pro-
claims himself as the author of John Cave —
a novel but dimly remembered, if it all, in
the circulating libraries. The story is set
in the United States, where we in a grocery
store meet Jerome S. Me Wade, whose sub-
sequent swift rise to wealth, through a com-
plexion cream, a string of “beauty parlors,”
the control of “franchises,” and finance
(American brandj is subtly indicated by the
fact that we find him, a grocery clerk, study-
ing the cash register, “a new contrivance
that he believed could be outwitted.”
But it is of Barbara Gwynne, whom he
humbly loved, that the story is about. Bar-
bara is a delightful heroine. She was this
sort: —
As Barbara hurried to the station, her
carriage was modest, and she glanced neither
to right nor left. For if her eyes, shining
with the soft and tender gaiety of youth,
were ever permitted to wander, they were
sure to encounter a man’s eyes; arid this
man might be a millionaire in a motor-car,
he might be a laborer digging in a ditch ;
but at any rate his eyes would look deej>
into hers in an .appeal at once so humble
and so daring that it would trouble her
strangely. Her own eyes she would avert
at once. Otherwise, inevitably, the man,
nervous, embarrassed, would accost her.
She was an orphan, and lived at Cinna-
minson, whence she went each day to a
store in New York. “Barbara, at the age
of 18, got four dollars a week for selling
enough neckties to give a profit of 60 dollars
a week to her employer... .Of course Bar-
bara would never ‘have gained the necktie
counter had she not been pretty. All the
girls were pretty at the men’s counters.” At
lunch: —
The girls were neatly dressed, and , they
had the proud and glittering charm of youth ;
but, inasmuch as the rich George Smollett
worked them so hard that no time was left
for sunshine or fresh air, they were pale and
sickly; and inasmuch as Smollett did not
pay them enough to allow of their proper
nourishment, they were very thin. These
pale, thin, sickly girls, overworked and
underfed, talked gaily, in the unwholesome
basement’s artificial light, of clothes and
men, clothes and men. And here and there
among them, easily to be distinguished, sat a
ruined girl.
Tb« ruined girl’s boots were trim and
costly, her frock was admirably cut; her
eyes, furthermore, were bright and clear,
her lips were red, her contours firm and
vigorous. The soul of the ruined girl was
damned, of course, for ever, but her body was
in an incomparably better condition than the
bony bodies of her saved sisters.
S
Barbara was not damned. She had her
aristocratic “friend,” but escaped him —and
missed the last train to Cinnaminson, hav-
ing to w^lk s home. Female Cinnaminson
thereupon' definitely damned her. And Bar-
bara left Cinnaminson for the stage. But
how did this unknown girl get on? She tried
to see nine managers, in vain. Thereupon she
sent 'her photograph to 11 managers, and
seven asked her to call. The first engaged
I her, put her into the chorus, and promised,
if she worked hard and discovered the pos-
session of a temperament, in a year to make
a star of her. Room here for a picture of
the dressing-room of the chorus: —
Barbara herself felt a strange delight as
she dressed in the large dressing-room, amid
the beauty of that band of girls. They
drove to the theatre in hansoips, and, always
late, they disrobed hurriedly, piling in dis-
ordered mounds sable and ermine, laris
gowns, and hats of a strange grace. Their
costly lingerie, tossed through the air, fell
very slowly, like down, upon the floor in
soft, light * heaps. On their stockings of
gossamer silk gleamed garters whose jewelled
clasps contained tiny powdbr-pufis, watches,
miniatures. And if their apoarel was ex-
quisite, they themselves, thanks to the
extraordinary and laudable perfection of
their toilet, they themselves —as they dressed
or undressed —were more exquisite than
their apparel. .. .And when, straight and
supple, they ran across the dressing-room,
their young flesh, with the light flowing over
it, looked translucent, luminous.... They
came to the theatre hurriedly in hansoms,
departing hurriedly, with elderly million-
aires, in little broughams.
But Barbara always departed alone.
And now a doctor, whose whole life was
spent at a college of medical research —his
own was to find a cure for tetanus-
joined in the pursuit of Barbara. And
always Jerome, now a lonely millionaire,
loomed awkward and vast in her shadow.
The work in the little colony of dedicated
scientists to which Ford belonged is desci’ibed
with a master touch ; and the sheer worth of
this doctor wins the heart of Barbara, now
a reigning “star.” But Ford, who had so
far failed to find his cure, smashes, in a
moment of just rage, a test tube containing
millions of. tetanus germs; and. after four
days of devoted care on the part of his fel-
lows, he knows he is doomed.
His last hours make one of the most hor-
rible deaths treated of in literature. For
that scene alone Trites must be classed as
a master* of tragic poignancy.
And at the end of this tense, strange book,
it is at a bull fight that Barbara accepts the
long devotion of the millionaire, Jerome.
Tier excitement increased. She seemed
almost to have the key to life's sorry mys-
tery.
Death none could escape, but the vices
and weaknesses of life are naught to him
who devotes himself, like Ford and like
Jerome, to a single purpose. And he who
devotes his life to a single purpose, whether
that purpose be noble like Ford’s, or ignoble
like Jerome’s, has a dignity that others lack.
Dignity. .. .It was not much, perhaps.
But how few lives possessed it!
Jerome’s aim had been to grow rich, and
he had succeeded. But his life had had
another aim, and this he had pursued with
nobler means, with _ humility, with delicate
kindness, with an invincible and touching
faith. In this other aim was he to fail V
Does a woman ever give herself without
loveV Ah, yes, she often gives herself with-
out love. She gives herself compassionately,
las she might hold water in the hollow of her
hands to a stricken wayfarer’s parched lips.
This is but an outline of a # book, tense,
vital, vibrant with modernity.
J*
Hewlett is back again in the time of Wil-
liam the Fourth, the Duke of Wellington
and his “Mrs. Lancelot.” That is to say,
that in Bendish (Macmillan) Hewlett is at
home with romance. Bendish is, however,
hardly a sequel to Mrs. Lancelot, for, though
she and her husband, Gervase Poore (and
also their two children) figure largely in the
romantic plot, it is the story of Bendish that
Hewlett concentrates upon. And Bendish is
Byron. With historical accuracy the author
has no concern: he alters dates and facts
with a reckless bravery —and succeeds in
delineating the character of Byron as no
mere historian, with his strict documentary
and chronological limitations, could do. In
this “study in prodigality” Hewlett acutely,
and a little maliciously, diagnoses the flam-
buoyant temperament of a poseur who also
happened to be a poet. Bendish “would
have been much more handsome if he had
not known with every breath he took
exactly how handsome he was.” But his
biographer probes more deeply :> —
George, Lord Bendish, at the hour of his
majority was a young man who could do
everything but see. He could feel intensely,
think incisively and summarily, act in a flash,
and bide his time with extreme tenacity ; but
discernment was denied him. He could not
gauge values, he could not tell the real from
the appearance. He had a fund of emotion,
a fount of passion in him which might have
set up another Shakespeare for Englishmen
to worship when he was well dead —he turned
them both to melodrama or gave them out in
10-gallon jars to any painted minx who would
take one, or a dozen of them. He valued
most of all his possessions his peerage: that
was a mark upon him he never lost sight of
He might have been the most distinguished
peer in England but for his conviction that
it was distinction enough to be a peer at all.
Other careers attracted him for a time, and
he pursued them with a zest that soon tired-
poetry, politics, love, philosophy, affairs. lie
found them and' their rewards flimsy stuff
beside the sblid fact of being a lord among
commoners. It is almost incredible that a
young man so gifted could be so dull, that a
man po sensitive to tine things could be so
vulgar-minded —but so it was. When he
became —as he did become—an acknowledged
poet he hugged the consciousness that he was
first a lord-; when he had men behind him
who might have stormed and carried West-
minster, he thrilled to remember that a peer
led them.
That portrait of Bendish will obliterate in
the minds of modern readers their memories
of the Byron of the official biographies. And
Hewlett’s fiction will triumph over history—
simply because, psychologically, it is more
true. But, after all, we want romance—and
Bendish is a poor hero. So off to Italy
goes Bendish with his attorney, Ileniker—
the real hero —to meet “Mrs. Lancelot,” now
Mrs. Gervase Poore. And Poore, as we had
seen in that previous brave romance, is some-
what of a Shelley. But, though Bendish
tries his practised arts upon the lady, she
refuses him ; and Bendish —here we are part-
ing from history—makes her the heroine of
what is obviously Byron’s great poem. The
discovery of this unwarranted use of Mrs.
Poore-Shelley leads to an admirably described
duel betweii the outraged husband and the
unsuccessful lover—with the Duke of Wel-
lington hovering on the outskirts of the
field. After that all is humiliation for poor
Bendish, and we leave him stripped bare of
all his pretensions.
It is a gallant romance, spoilt as a
romance by our consciousness of its histori-
cal genesis. There is interest enough in the
story ; but the added interest, the cunningly
interwoven interest, of real personalities
behind the masks, distracts the reader from
his proper absorption in the plot. Had
there been no Byron it would have been a
better story. That shadow blurs the new
details that Hewlett has so finely invented.
We cannot quite believe either Maurice Hew-
lett or history. »
A sequel is promised—thus completing the
three-volume novel so popular nowadays.
—
Does poetry sell? Paterson’s Man from
Snowy River is now in its 51st thousand;
and of the “Snowy River” series of Aus-
tralian poetry, published by Angus and
Robertson (Sydney), already over IOo.OOU
copies have been sold. And this, remember,
at ss. a copy. Now the publishers, recognis-
ing that they hold an easily and permanently
marketable commodity, have determined to
reduce the price of each volume to 3s. 6d.
Attractively bound and admirably printed in
the large type that publishers are loth to
utilise for verse, there is now no reason why
this series should not be in every Australian
household. One of the following volumes
would make a characteristic Christmas pre-
sent to a friend in that English archipelago
beyond the seas: Paterson’s Snowy River
and Rio Grande’s Last Race, The Golaen
Treasury of Australian Verse, Ogilvies ratr
Girls and Hearts of Gold, Boake’s Where
the Dead Men Lie, Brunton Stephen s Poeti-
cal Works, Lawson’s In the Days when the
World was Wide, Verses Popular and hum-
orous. and When I Was King, Essex Evans
Secret Key, Farrell’s How He Died, and
Daley’s At Dawn and Dusk and nine ana
Roses.
Two much-heralded plays by Strindberg,
Lucky Pehr (Stewart and Kidd, U.b.A)
and Easter (Grant Richards, per Dymocks
Library), appear, in translation, somewhat
disappointing. Strindberg was a man o
varied but also varying genius; and tnese
examples of his dramatic talent show mm
in his lesser mordents of inspiration. Raster
is a pleasant play, showing a family sorrow-
ing under the shadow of the father s im
prisonment. There is one creditor, de-
frauded bv the father, whom all the mem
bers of the family fear. His shadow nes
like an evil thing over all their lives. Twice,
in the two first acts, this creditor seems
on the point of entering; but each time
passes by. In the third act he appears, an
turns out to be a kindly soul, eager to
friend them. That is all. The simplicity-of
the play, the quiet mood of its atmosphe ,
and the moral beauty of one of its
acters, a young girl just released from
asylum, give the play a quiet charm ,
the element of drama is lacking.
Pehr has some relationship to ,
Bird, but misses its poetic appeal. >1 i*
story of a youth whq, under fairy gui •
sets out explore life, and after the
extraordinary adventures, learns,
and disillusioned, to renounce selt. ,
speaking characters include inanimate ,
like pillories, brooms, rats d n d a bum P<
Some of the scenes are full of Strindl g
irony; but the allegory, because ot it
tastic setting, fails to convince.


A.
vee
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ FOR CHRISTMAS GIFTS
No. 18718. -Sterling Silver-mounted Hair Brush,
Rococo design 11/6, 14/6? 18 / 6
-M
-’/r A
<.r
No. 1868.— Sterling Silver-mounted Hair Brush, E’estoon
design 28/6
m
$3
'A SIZE
No. 8643. — Brush and Comb Tray, Electro-plate on Nickel
Silver 137-
No. 1866 b Silver-mounted Hair Brush, Fancy
Design 11/6
No. 1890. — Sterling Silver-mounted Hair Brush, Lily
Design 22/-
No. 1822 d Silver Toilet Set, consisting of Two
Hair Brushes, Cloth and Hat Brushes, Mirror and Comb —
£6/10/-, £7/10/- to £lO/10/-
o. 1826. — Pair of Military Hair Brushes
it n(l Comb, Silver Mounted, in Handsome
case.... 21/-, 25/-, 30/-, 35/-, 40/-
SSMSMIi
’ills
«»!!!!
MHRIR
Ill'll®
k&ks&m
Siffilil!
liim
liilllfi
SsS
ll'll'®
mmm
Um M rti
i
r*
m
*»i'y
sg&£
iSiiiS
teitefel""®
M i l '
»ii i
d
Mi
I
sag
siiSaa
i ”'I I'
liSii
mimi
|ii||
I
■u>: ii'Hll»,
No. 7628. — Brush and Comb Tray, E.P. on
Nickel Silver 10/-
POSTAQE fIUST BE ADDED
TO THE PRICES QUOTED.
No. 1826a. — Pair of Military Hair Brushes,
Silver Mounted, in Satin-lined Case —
30/-, 35/-, 40/-, 45/-
No. 1822b. — Sterling Silver Toilet Set, consisting- of Two
Hair Brushes, Cloth and Hat Brushes, Mirror and Comb, in
Satin-lined Case £4/10/-, £6, £7/10/-, £9/10/-
No. 194 b Silver Hair Brush,
Design
Oxidised Rose
l3/6
No. 1871e.— Sterling Silver-Mounted Hair
Design, Special Bristles
Brush, Empire
22/-
s
o,'
••
®«o>
SIZE
No. 8665. — Brush and Comb Tray, Electroplate on Nickel
Silver 21/-
No. 1864Hx. — Sterling Silver Hair Brush, Ribbon De-
sign 27/6
No. 1869 b Silver-mounted Hair Brush, En-
graved Design 29/6
No, 1820. — Toilet Set, Silver Mounted, consisting of Two
Hair Brushes and Comb, Cupid Design. . 30/-, 40/-
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


WINCHESTER
. -
Self-Loading . Shotgun
12 GAUGE, TAKE-DOWN
Since its introduction, sportsmen
have subjected this gun to almost
every conceivable test. In no
fair trial has it failed to stand up
or prove its supremacy. Its
Nickel Steel construction gives
strength to shoot maximum loads
with safety, and its reloading
system the ability to handle the
lightest or heaviest loads without
tinkering the action. In this gun
the “kick” is minimized to the
last degree. It has other dis-
tinctive features to recommend
it, as an inspection will show.
THE RECOIL-OPERATED
SHOTGUN SUPREME
Buy a Gillette, and
Banish Shaving Trouble
8* J
Note the
curve that
gives the
automatic
adjustment.
Ask the first dozen Gillette
users you meet why they
adopted the Gillette,
and probably ten of them will
answer—“ You don’t have to strop
the Blades.”
Most men hate to use a strop. It
is a waste of time for one thing; and no
matter how expert a man may be at
stropping, he resents having the bother
imposed on him by the make-shift shaving
quality of his razor.
An invaluable feature of the Gillette Safety
Razor is its hard-tempered steel blade. This
blade is the finest shaving edge ever produced. No strop will
affect it. Stropping the hard-tempered Gillette Blade is alto-
gether unnecessary.
You will find our New Process Gillette Blades specially fine,
sharp and smooth, the best ever produced. .
You can easily shave yourself with the Gillette.
0
W'//
m i
m si
Your face may be exceptionally
tender —or your beard so dark or so
heavy that you have to shave right down
close to the skin.
You may never have been able to
shave two days running.
Your time may be short, your hand
nervous, or you may dread the risks of
the open blade razor.
You can shave every day with the
Gillette and do it quickly and comfortably.
You can shave velvet smooth-
closer than you have ever shaved before.
No roughness. No stubble of beard
left in the corners. No danger of bad
cuts and scratches.
The Gillette Safety Razor will save
you time, trouble and money. It is the
only razor adjustable to individual needs,
and it is safe.
Don’t put it off Buy a Gillette To-day.
Of all high-class Cutlers, Ironmongers. Hair-
dressers. Chemists and Fancy Goods shops Mam-
different styles to select from. BRITISH MAOb.
Write to-day for illustrated and descriptive
Booklet of prices ; please mention this paper.
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR LTD..
London, England.
Look carefully for our Trade Mark on
Razor, Blades and Case.
WORLD ovm.
General Offices and Works: Leicester, England.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals^
{gharri, England.
Works : Birmin :
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Senes.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
TOOTH h CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
tysssssssssssssssss* ////////////w-
-6*
Underwear.
f \
A.a4l
Don’t choose your underwear at random;
let reason be your guide.
Piy Jason for these reasons:
i., on is all pare Australasian-wool; is absolutely unshrink-
able • is as soft as silk in wear; is most comfortable:
is perfectly f shioned; is good wearing.
Once you have worn Jas~n you w 11 real se how comfortable underwear
c?n be. And you have the makers guarantee—if any garment
snrinks it will be replaced free of cost.
Jason Underwear is made in all styles and prices for men
ladies and children Infants 'Pure White Wear in light
an l medium Weights. Jason Jerseys for children wear
splendidly. If your denier does not stock Jason insist
upon his getting it for you.
In case of difficulty, wr.te
JASON UNDERWEAR CO., Leicester, England.
VW
figji
mt
‘m
&
J777777T777/7m^ l
IS
Waterman's
(Ideal)
FountairlPen
“SAFETY” Type —No matter how
carried IT WILL NOT LEAK.
Upside down in pocket or bag—doesn’t matter
a bit. The Pen can’t leak —it’s sealed when
open and sealed when closed. As a pen
-—absolutely efficient. Writes smoothly, with-
out spurting or faltering ; lasts a lifetime.
Nibs to suit every hand.
15/- and upwards.
Of Stationers and
Jewellers everywhere.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, Ltd.,
Koh-i-noor House, London, England.
AUSTRALIA—3SO, George St.,
Sydney.
ifii
II
II
B
ill
IM
\/'inr
i. l, iii i i
A Picture of
Good Health!
Mrs. ADDINGTON, of Argent Street, Broken
Hill, writes her daughter was cured of St. Vitus b
Dance, and is NOW IN SPLENDID HE
through CLEMENTS TONIC.
“Argent Street, North Broken Hill,
“10th October, 1911.
“CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
“Some years ago my daughter, in alighting ro
a tram, had a severe fall. It gave her a g
shock, and so affected her nervous system tna
eventually St. Vitus’s Dance ensued. She bwwj
so had that it was impossible to bold a km
fork, and going out of the house was imposMMfc d
“I was persuaded to try CLEMENTS TONIC. She gradually Mupro •
soon regained her normal condition. Nearly two years have elapsed & hpaltb
COMPLETE RECOVERY, and all that time she has enjoyed the best or nea
“I have great faith in CLEMENTS TONIC, and always recommend it.
can make what use you wish of this. (M . E A . ADDINGTON.”
CLEMENTS TONIC is Your MEDICINE
The Rev. JOHN lIOSKING, D.D., Minister of
the Congregational Church, Fitzroy, Melbourne,
writes: —
“I was completely run down and suffered by
nervous prostration, being troubled with Insomnia
and nervous headaches.
“After taking one bottle I slept soundly, and soon
got stronger. One bottle put me right, and was
worth its weierht in gold. I recommend this medi-
cine very strongly. You may use this as you think
“(Signed) JOHN lIOSKING, D.D."
This Testimony should convince anyone suffering
from INSOMNIA or LOSS OF SLFEI* and
NERVOUS BREAKDOWN, of the value of this
curative medicine.
GET IT, AND GET WELL.
All Chemists and Stores sell it everywhere.
I


Benger’s Food
is neither a pre-
digested food nor a
mixture of dried
milk and chemical
substances.
vjri
It is a natural food,
differing from all others
in combining the princi-
ples of natural digestion.
These enable Benger’s
Food to be prepared
to suit individual needs ;
to rest enleebled di-
gestions, and nurse
them back to healthful
activity by regulated
stages.
With no other food
is this possible, and as
Benger’s Food never over-stimulates
as do many chemical foods, no re-
action follows
its use.
♦
Food
For CHILDREN,
Invalids and the Aged.
Bengers Booklet—A little work of authority on
the special feeding of Children, Invalids, ana 'lie
Aged, will he sent post free on application to:
BENGERS FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, Eng.
Branch Offices—
New York (u.s.a) 92 William st. Sydney (n.s.wi 1-7, Pitt st
Canadian -ttr'n s:— National Drug & Chemical Co., Ltd.,
Si, St. Gabriel Street, Montreal, and Branches throughout Canada
IB9A
Fashionable
Favorite-Perfume
m/iirw
r
F.WOLFF&SOHN
iiiiiiiill
F. Wolff &Sohn
PERFUMERS
KARLSRUHE
BERLIN * LONDON
Obtainable from all the leading stores.
MILNERS' SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
■ i
SYDNEY: John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
MELBOURNE : Bri-coe & Co., Ltd., Lit. Collins St.
BRISBANE : Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH : McLean Bros. & Rigg.
Ans. Rep.—T. Nicholls, c/o Sydney Agents,
HEALS ANY WOUND OK SORE
If you have an obstinate sore, a wound that won t
knit, a bad leg or a skin eruption of any kina,
no matter of how long standing, you can cure it
quickly and surely with
WILKINSONS
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT.
Price 1/6, posted 1/9. J WILKINSON, Chemist
1] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane
BONNINCTON’S WILL ANSWER YES
IRISH
to the question—is it the best ? Yes it is undoubtedly the
best Cough Remedy that skill and purest ingredients can
produce. This preparation has been curing Coughs
and Colds for upwards of 45 years, and although numer-
ous imitations have appeared from time to time none
have stood against “Bonnington’s’' of 40 years fame.
Sold Everywhere.
1/6 CSL 2/6.
Bonninciws
Irish Moss.
The ideal family medicine is equally
beneficial for Adults or Children.
Mothers can give it to the litt'e ones
with every confidence as it is entirely
free from harmful narcotics.
Do not take imitations —just ask for “BONNINtiTON’S” and
see that you get it.
&
WOT o*r»
aonW'
rto
IRISH
'""Vi;
RUNKENNESS Cured.
DAny lady can cure the most violent drunkard— secretly—at home. GOLDEN
SPECIFIC has no odor or taste, and can be taken by the most delicate person
of either sex. It total’y eradicates all craving: for stimulants, creating: a last-
ing antipathy to alcohol in a few weeks. Many cases are cured in a few days
with this treatment. . . Send 2d. stamp for FREE SAMPLE and full particulars.
THE GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO., DEPT. 4, MARKET STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
A CHARMING FICURE
Within Every Woman’s Reach
The lack of a well-rounded, nicely-formed bust deprives a woman
of four-fifths of the charm that would otherwise be hers. .. .Are your
cheeks sunken and hollow ? Have you deep lines around your mouth
and eyes? Are your arms thin and scrawny? And is your chest flat
and your bosom undeveloped ? Do your shoulder-blades and the “salt-
cellars” that form at your throat make evening dress almost a tragedy ?
Are you so thin that your clothes merely hang on you ?
MRS. V. GRAHAM, of Stanley Street, Richmond, tells in the fol-
lowing letter of her release from the thraldom of poor development
and deficient figure:-
“Your treatment is wonderful, and I have to thank.
Dr. FAEEIERE’S FLESH-FOOD for not only restoring
my health, but for building up my figure and develop-
i-g my bust to my entire satisfaction. I am better in
every way from its use, and it did exactly what you
Jj
wgm
1 4
rtr/.y
♦
■u s
I I
claimed it would from its use, and even more quickly than you stated.”
In many cases bust measurements have been increased by over ten inches, and the gain in
actual weight—equally distributed over the body in generally deficient cases—has been over five
pounds weekly. Some other cases have shown an increase in weight of even a pound a day. The
average bust increase desired is about six inches, and is readily accomplished. Results guaranteed.
FLESH-FOOD offers relief and development to the thousands of chronically thin women who
have despaired of ever possessing a presentable figure. It is a nerve and tissue food treatment
that adds weight and permanent development to attenuated women. We have not space here, but
if you will write or call, we will give you hundreds of testimonials from grateful, happy women.
LET US SEND YOU A FREE TRIAL SAMPLE.
We want you to know just what FLESH-FOOD is, and will gladly give you a free sample.
Send a 2d. stamp, and let us forward a free trial sample and our instructive book on attenuation,
“LOVELY WOMAN.” FLESH-FOOD is put up in tablet form, and can be secretly taken if de-
sired. All correspondence is confidential and private, and all our literature is sent closely
covered' and free from observation. Write at once. You are placed under no obligation what-
ever to buy because you send for sample. It is ABSOLUTELY FREE. CALL IF CONVENIENT.
FALLIERE FLESH-FOOD CO., 1103 ASH STREET, SYDNEY. [18224
Will Anprrpe »■ BOOKS.
Any of these Catalogues
Free for the asking :
(1) Plays, Recitations,
(2) Magical Goods.
(3) Useful Books.
(4) Building Books.
(5) Mechanical and
Engineering Books.
(6) Medical Books.
(7) Socialistic Books.
(8) Sixpenny Novels.
(9) Australian Books.
(10) Athletic Books.
(11) Wigs, Beards,
Grease Paints,
Masks.
Easy Method op Learnino French, German,
Italian, Spanish, 1/7 each language; Speeches and
Toasts for all occasions, 1/1 ; Every Man His Own
Carpenter, 1/1 ; Bernard Macfadden’s Building of
Vital Power, 5/4 ; Macfadden’s Superb Virility of
Manhood, 5/4 ; Macfadden’s Sweethearts for Lives,
5/4 ; Amateur Conjuring Book, easy tricks, illus-
trated, 7d. ; Boxing and Self-Defence, 1/2 ; Book
of Love Letters, 1/- ; Hypnotism, Mesmerism and
Clairvoyance, 1/1 ; Horse Doctor, 1/1 ; What Young
People Should Know, Confidential Talks, 1/1 ; Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book of Nature, the only
genuine and complete edition, 3/6; New 1912
edition, enlarged, 32 extra plates, illustrating
female anatomy, handsome cloth cover, 5/-; New
Tricks with Cards, 1/-; House Painting, Paper-
hanging, Whitewashing, etc., 1/4 ; 3000 Priceless
Secrets, 1/8 ; Irish Jokes and Witty Sayings. 9d. ;
Complete Letter Writer for Ladies and Gentlemen,
1/- ; Dancing Without an Instructor, 1/- ; Lovers’
Guide to Courtship and Marriage, 1/-
im-AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
M/IS/CS
For Fancy Dress
Halls, Skating
Carnivals, Pro-
cessions, etc.
Large Vai iety.
Wiite for List.
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
2] FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne.
FREE TO
SMOKERS !
Mr. R. J. Hinton, Jerrara Creek, Marulan, N.S.AV.,
“it gives me great pleasure to inform.you that t
have been completely cured of the tobacco Habit by
your wonderful Tobacco Specific; after using tobacco
heavily for seven years, sometimes Boz. to lOoz. in
the week It is now 12 months since 1 last used
tobacco, and, although 1 am continually in the com-
pany of smokers, 1 do not have the least desne to
smoke, therefore I consider the cure permanent.
“Mv General health is now perfect; all my former
complaints, such as irregular Heart Action, Dizzi-
ness, Nervousness and Stomach 1 rouble, which 1
hav f e everv reason to believe were caused through the
use of tobacco, have entirely disappeared, and are
onlv remembered as a hideous nightmare_. I eat
and sleep well, and feel fit to face the world again.
It will give me great pleasure to recommend your
remedy to others.”
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a FREB
SAMPLE of Tobacco Specific, also Booklet, Testi-
monials, etc. __
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
/ DEPT. Q,
107 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
rTIHE Australian Magazine. THE LONE
I HAND, the National Monthly. Fr ee fca.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Hava you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE 10 WEAR, but ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
' AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Never mind if you ha ve tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
so't rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT FASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men. women A children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FLEE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak S'gM
Ask your Chemist for its history—the book is free—ot write
S. GREEN, 210, Lamoetb Road, London, Eng.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Smugglers.
God made a splash of yellow light
Behind the shoreward trees,
And flung the warm, brown cloak of night
Across the purple seas ;
Then lit a star, serene and pale,
In evening’s curving dome,
To glimmer on the one white sail
That bore our plunder home.
In caskets all of jewelled smiles
With satin kisses lined,
We brought a cargo from the isles
That only dreams can find.
Such wealth of fine and precious things
As fairy hammers make
In valleys where a white moon sings
To keep the leaves awake.
And we had bartered for such wares
God-faith and muse’s fire
Upon the silver merchant stairs
That lead to life’s desire.
But as we touched the brown, wet sand
We heard a beldam say :
“Young follv brings again to land
The dreams of yesterday.”
The night child on the large earth's knee
A soft song seemed to croon.
And God from out the darkened sea
Fished up a great white moon.
Through the steep places of the air
A floating laughter trilled
From starry maids whose silver hair
About the sky was spilled.
O’er land and sea were nets of pearl
The winds had flung astray.
And in my net of dream one girl
Joy won from yesterday.
We knew the wealth we brought would fade ;
Ah, no such fools were we _
To dream the moonlight’s silver braid
Was fixed upon the sea.
But through clear veils of unbelief
That could not sight destroy
We saw God bless the happy thief
Who steals the heart of joy.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
A Peripatetic Idealist.
She came to me, a vision rare,
A-down the pathway of the night,
A gentle maid with purple hair
That draped her shoulders gleaming white.
I woke and saw the morning spread
Her gown of gold across the hill.
And though, alas! my maid had fled,
By day and night I seek her still.
Beyond the bound’ries of the world
For her I’d search, my dream’s delight.
On seas where never sail unfurled,
By great stars guarded through the night.
I’ve sought where wild sea-maidens lie,
And deftly their green tresses comb,
Smiling with joy when fondled by
The cool, white fingers of the foam.
Brown girls were there, all drenched with
spray,
Who sported in the breakers free,
Large-limbed, full-blooded, young and gay,
Laughing at life in ecstasy.
I watched and saw the sunset pale
To yellow flame across the blue.
Then, like a knight who seeks the Grail,
Set forth upon my quest anew.
Within a playhouse for a while
I watched the witches on the stage,
With graceful art and furtive smile
Tempt vicious fools to vassalage.
Between the acts the circle seemed
A pleasaunce made for man’s delight.
Soft-toned electrics downward streamed
On dimpled shoulders falsely white.
Soft bosoms showed through silken mesh.
Or flaunted boldly, flashing bare;
The heavy reek of scented flesh
Arose, and staled upon the air.
I to a tavern made my way,
And further sought my heart to cheer.
Where weary women, seeming gay,
Stood round dispensing elder beer.
Hair saw I there of many shades :
Jet black, and copper burnished bright.
Rich gold, and yellow, too, that fades
To calcium hue beneath the light.
I left the town and onward pressed,
By field and forest journeyed far;
But vain, and ever vain, my quest,
As one who reaches for a star!
I wandered in a land of streams
And Gept ’neath arching skies by night.
And in the purpled dusk of dreams
Once more she swooned before my sight.
Awake, the hot blood coursing through
My veins, 1 scrambled to my knees —
And saw but morn, arrayed in blue
And gold, appear above the trees!
Thus twice I’ve seen her limned by sleep !
Who has a vision such as this
No more may sweet contentment keep,
But suffers pain while seeking bliss !
The damsels whom I knew of old
No longer can my senses stir.
They lure me not, they leave me cold —
I want but her! I want but her !
I still had worshipped Lalage,
I still had thought Phrynette a pearl,
If she had never come tome
A-down the night—my wonder girl!
I’ve cursed the witching elder beer —
The million kisses that we lost.
I want to kiss her on the ear!
Where is my Girl of Beer and Mist?
No other now my heart can fill
Thousrh sdrls be frail, and girls be fair.
By vale and hill I seek her still —
'My Maiden of the Purple Hair!
VICTORIA.
HARRISON OWEN.


Comfort and Convenience
A COUCH AND BED IN ONE.
Marcus Clark’s Patent Combination
Patent No. 12274.
A Couch that can be transformed into a cosy Bed by merely pressing a small lever.
No trouble —no delay.
Every home, hotel and boarding-house should have at least one of these hand-
somely-upholstered, strong, comfortable, combination Couches.
PRICES :
£4/10/=
£7/10/=
according to
upholstering.
With Under-
box, front 21/-
extra.
*
*
These Couches are remarkable for their cosiness—their resiliency and soft
springiness will bring complete relaxation and luxurious repose.
WE ARE SOLE MANUFACTURERS —BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Patterns of Upholstering Materials and all Particulars Free on Application.
MARCUS CLARK & CO. LTD.,
Railway Square, George Street, City.
Dinneford’s/
Magnesia I
J
DINNEFORD'S
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Australian
Magazine.
THE LOME HAMP
The National
Honthly, 6d.
DRAWN TUNGSTEN WIRE
SAVE K,- i-M THE POUND
NO LAMPS TAKE LESS CURRENT
/
fie- &ur»e you/it
a ( 7bufium this time"
*\otor Tyres
(Australian Made)
REVISED PRICE LISTS ON APPLICATION.
Manufactured by—
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd.
270 George Street, Sydney.
105 Elizabeth Street, Helbourne.
63 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
307 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
The Accordeon with
THE MELLOW TONE
Is just perfection for Song Accompaniments, Dance Musio
and Picnics. The Organlihe Tone of these Instruments
is attained by the use of Bell Metal Reeds, which are hand-
fitted and tuned.
THREE POPULAR MODELS.
THE ORGAN TONED MELBA
3 Sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 22/6, postfree.
THE PICNIC MODEL.
2 Sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 15/-. post free
OTHER MODELS FROM 7/6 TO 40/-
For Free Catalogue No. 9 write to—
*’ 276 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
and also at Bendigo and Geelong.
F.N. CARS ARE
SATISFACTORY.
The F.N. Motor Cars have won a splendid reputation
locally. It is recognised that they are peculiarly
adapted to withstand, the trying Australian conditions
of roads and climate. And this recognition i« based
on fact —on actual performances of F.N. Cars.
One of the most trying trips ever undei taken in
Australia was made in an F.N. recently. Right
through Queensland to Port Darwin and back —across
hundreds of miles of the roughest country imagin-
able. Awful roads were met with all the way. Mud
often a foot deep was encountered, and sandy creeks
had to be forded. The owner and driver of the car
said: “The F.N. has behaved splendidly, and I am
satisfied no car could do more than it lias done, and
few that would do nearly so much work.”
We do not think we need say more to convince you
that the F.N. is most powerful, speedy and reliable.
It also affords the greatest possible motoring comfort.
Call to-day and inspect this car : or. better, make an
appointment for a practical demonstration. Write
for free information if you cannot call.
SOnE POINTS OF
THE F.N. 12=14 H P.
Four Cylinders cast en bloc.
Water circulation by centri-
fugal pump.. Petrol, pressure
fed from rear tank. Water-
proof Bosch high-tension Igni-
tion, with .steering wheel
control. Automatic Lubrica-
tion. Adjustable steering
column. Foot accelerator.
Multiple disc clutch running m
oil. Four speeds forward, with
direct drive on fourth speed
and one reverse. Sankey steel
detachable wheels with span 1
wheel and tyre complete.
Agents for Daimler, Delaunay=Belleville, Hudson,
Rover, Austin, Opel, Cutting and Marathon Cars.
Halley and Commer Motor Lorries. Baker Electric
Cars and Trucks.
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Motor Garage,
136-138 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Pose as a Newspaper.
Vol. 34.—N0 1763.
THUIiSDAY, NOVEMB fCR 27. 1913.
Price 6».
BAILING HER UP.
COHEN: “Bail up, Strawberry, bail up! You’ll find the tucker very filling—and I’ll find it very fattening presently.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Mac-
leod, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets,
Mosman, for The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214
George Street, Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: City 2389.
City 2390.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum .. . . ..£l6O
Half-yearly .. . . . . 018 6
Quarterly . . . . . . . . 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office liventy-
Six Shillings Sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques. Drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
M anager.
II ow to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by talcing some
care us to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions. ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable. acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the form
of Political. Social or other Articles. Verse, Short
Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Australian sub-
frets. and not exceeding two columns in length, or,
say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Betti rs or Newspaper Clippings, .ill communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the addre.ss is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the pn serration or transmission of
MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
aritstic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
dorl, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
(Jordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency. Cape-
town. Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co.. Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., I\kl Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros.. Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah. U.S.A. : Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and. I) Streets. San Dieg'o.
Calf ; Bay City News Co.. San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia. U.S.A.; IF. E. Lenehan. 585
29 1 h Street. San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street.
Ilong Kong.
Ceylon.— W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tas-
mania and New Zealand; and on account of Messrs.
Atkinson and Co. and Itigby, Ltd., Adelaide- —at
I//6 per doz. nett.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6)in.
x Hin., and gelatine transparencies will be for-
warded on application. Larger metal plates can be
supplied if desired.
Postage Rates.
Single copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper):—Throughout the Commonwealth. New Zea-
land, Fiji. British New Guinea. Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, llioz., Id. Only one newspaper should be en-
closed in each packet, — otherwise: 80s., Id., Bioz.
to lOoz.. 2id. ; lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, 1/oz.,
Id.. and id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 27. 1918.
THE GREATEST SWINDLE OF THEM
ALL.
The present is one of those glad periods
when the Australian public gets all sorts of
fresh lessons in the assorted fraudulencies of
the Party Government system. The Com-
monwealth Parliament is living in dread of
another general election, with all its attend-
ant financial and other perils to members.
In the case of the N. S. Wales Assembly the
costly, and to many absolutely ruinous, cal-
amity is an imminent certainty. The chiet
issues on which the electorates are required
by the party bosses to decide for or against
the different organisations have an eloquence
that is all their oivn. In the Australian
Parliament Liberalism has decided that the
largely-bogus row on which its appeal to the
country is to be based shall rage, not round
the repeal of the Land Tax. or the abolition
of the Commonwealth Bank, or the exter-
mination of the Federal Arbitration C ourt, or
any genuinely anti-Socialistic move or that
sort, but on such things as the overthrow of
the so-called Gag Act and the defeat of the
nrinciple of Preference to Unionists. Both
issues will attract a certain amount of
strictly temporary support, and it is for that
reason alone that they are being exploited.
Yet neither is worth fighting about in a
national sense ; and none know it better than
the leaders of Federal Liberalism. The
inoffensive old “Gag Act” never gagged any-
one in its life. The newspapers which howled
loudest against this “infamous device to
silence them” were not silenced in any
respect whatever. They printed the imme-
morial arguments, lies, etc., that had done
service in every previous election campaign,
as well as the customary stock of new goods
in the same line, with the differences merely
that the efforts appeared on page seven in-
stead of page six, and that, instead of being
anonymous, they carried the name of one of
the sheet’s leader-writers, or of a politician.
An attack on the principle of Preference to
Unionists will win approval in two direc-
tions —among the more short-sighted of the
employing class, and among the I.W.W. re-
volutionaries. The combined vote of Conser-
vatism and Anarchy is worth angling for;
and, so far as the coming Federal election is
concerned, there is a likelihood of its being
snared by Liberalism on the Preference
issue—at any rate in those Federal constitu-
encies where the battle is a straight-out one
between a Fisherite on the one hand and a
Cookite o’n the other. Victory on such terms
may be gratifying to Cook and his office-
hunting colleagues; but so far as Australia
is concerned it will be a calamity. Not a
deep-reaching calamity, of course, any more
than the Dreadnought agitation was, but still
a calamity. Preference to Unionists is. the
industrial synonym of local defence. It is as
inevitably certain to come within a few
brief years, as an Australian navy was inevi-
tably bound to come any time after the
American Fleet had visited these shores. The
open advocacy of sabotage which is being in-
dulged in by the leaders of the rapidly grow-
ing I.W.W. army will presently make it in-
cumbent op society to protect itself and its
institutions and laws in the only available
way—which is to say, by strengthening the
unions and simultaneously rendering them
liable to legal punishment in the event of
their breaking their obligations. The obvi-
ous and only way to discourage Revolution
is to encourage Unionism. The more workers
that remain outside the Union fold, the. more
must there be available for enrolment in the
lists of the newly-arrived army whose
avowed aim is to abrogate the laws, intro-
duce Communism, and in general behave as
G. H. Reid, Cook, and the rest claimed
half a dozen years ago the .T. C. Watson
Governmept meant to behave if it was given
the chance. The fight against Preference to
Unionists may be said therefore to be as
disingenuous (to put it civillyL where it
isn’t as pathetically misguided and as
doomed to certain failure, as the anti-defence
struggle was. No administration which
wasn’t so impregnated by the cynicism of
the party game as to be callous to the opinion
of the intelligent person in the street would
have the nerve to make its appeal on such
matters as Preference and the “Gag Act.”
* * * *
In the N. S. Wales Assembly contest the
issues are even more futile. Did Alice Wil-
kins (aged 11) smack a child who
was smaller than herself? Did the
assaulted infant deserve it, or was Alice
Wilkins in the habit of smacking
small girls irrespective of whether they
had or had not exasperated her?
Assuming that Alice did so offend,
should she have been fined or imprisoned, or
presented with a public testimonial or a
Government pension or what? For what
purpose did Minister Griffith purchase land
at Medlow? Is it a fact that he depastured
a goat there? And if so, why? Where did
he buy the goat? Or was the goat not his at
all, but merely a leased or hired animal?
And in any case, wherefore all the mystery?
Is Griffith afraid of Wade, or Wade of
Griffith, or each of the other? Did it cost
the Holman Government £9B to cut down
a fig tree? And would a Wade Administra-
tion not have done the job at a
more reasonable figure? These are
the imbecilities that the politicians of the
State House delight most to wrangle about.
The Holman administration’s rotten finan-
cial record, and its expressed determination
to be even rottener in this respect in future if
the electors give it a chance, is mentioned
by the enemy in a mere whisper, figuratively
speaking. The reason is to be found chiefiv
in the fact that there are thousands of elec-
tors who are sufficiently unpatriotic to ap-
prove of rotten finance, xls they regard it.
rotten finance means the free circulation of
money ; the creation of jobs ; the launching of
a fresh “boom”; or the preservation for a
while longer of the old one. The Minister
for Works —he of the mysterious goat—
demonstrates himself to be an expert in the
unsavory game or swindle of party politics,
when from every platform, he announces,
amid enraptured cheers, that it is his inten-
tion to “blow” every farthing of borrowed
or other money procurable, and let the de-
scendants of those who benefit bv his lavish-
ness meet the interest bill. In a similar spirit
Liberalism has little or nothing to say of a
hostile nature concerning State Labor’s chill
indifference to the decentralisation problem.
In the first place Liberalism is. and always
has been, equally cold on this question itself.
In the second there is the Game to be con-
sidered. Any attention paid to the rights of
the starved ports amounts in the eyes of an
influential section to an assault upon the
vested interests of Sydney and Newcastle.
Sydney and Newcastle represent many thou-
sands of votes : Jervis Bay and Port Stephens
none, or pext to none. Decentralisation,
finance, and the other big State issues are
left alone because in Party politics it is the
small things—the personalities, the criminal
innuendoes, and the petty side issues—which
return dividends in the way of votes.
There are a thousand constructive election-
eering cries outstanding—banners or flamens
that have to do with urgently-needed reforms
—but for one reason or another the party
man is unable to touch them. For example,
cheap food. The Independent Candidate for
Woollabra (N.S.W.) has tackled this vital
matter, inspired thereto by the recent report
of Royal Commissioner Bavin and the fact
that he has no Party leader to jump on him
for his indiscretion. There are all sorts of
reasons why the pledged party nominee,
Liberal or Labor, is not in a position to
follow the Woollahra candidate’s lead. One
of the latter’s texts is the criminal fashion
in which food is injured or destroyed on its
wav to market. The tragedy is due. in great
part, to the awfulness of the roads v'>ich the
provender has to traverse.. N. S. Wales is
losing millions per annum in ruined vehicles,
in loss of time, in spoiled produce, and
otherwise, as a result of its dreadtui roads.
But any Government which attends m a
serious spirit to the roads round Sydney oi
Newcastle is bound to alienate the coun ry
vote” : and if it fixes up the main country
roads, to the exclusion of Sydney, Newcastle
and the side-roads, it stands to enrage and
so lose the support of the inhabitants, or the
neglected parts. And if it wades m and
tries to repair all the State s appalling cause-
ways, in one act, it is liable to lay itself open
to the charge of being a lunatic. it si s
down, consequently, and does nothing More
risky than talk deafeningly about Alice
Wilkins. Many thousands sterling per
annum are added to the community s food-
bill because so much stock and produce is
dragged unnumbered miles out of its proper
route, with the object of benefiting the mm-
dleman who abides in the . neighborhood ot
the Sydney market. The middleman, and his
press, and all his myriad retainers and
hangers-on stand for herds of votes. iso
decentralisation, which would relieve the
pressure on Sydney, bring the producer more
profit, and automatically tear down the cost
of living, remains a mere academic aspira-
tion. Municipalised fish is Socialism. But
Liberalism is supposed to be anti-Soeialistic.
So Liberalism shies at a reform which Glas-
gow and other Old-World cities have proved
to be beneficent beyond the possibility of a
doubt; and Labor doesn’t consider it worth
being unpleasant about, and prefers to
resuscitate the hoary old issue of whether
C. G. Wade did or did not go into the Mount
Kernbla mine; and fish is thrown away by the
ton to keep up the market price ; aud house-
holders pay fancy prices for it commodity
which, in a country like Australia, should be
dirt cheap. #
This paper doesn’t go so far as to suggest
that, under the Party system, no political or
social advance is ever made. Its main point
is that progress is, of necessity, so grotesquely
slow. The system forces the reformer to move
to his goal in leg-irons. Nothing is ever done
till the need for it is so shriekinglv obvious
that further delay is impossible. One would
imagine that decent roads —about the first
landmarks of civilisation —ought to be attain-
able by an affluent community under any
form of government. In N. S. Wales, how-
ever, the roads question happens to bump up
against various local jealousies and political
catch-cries. It is certain, therefore, that, as
long as the present governmental system ob-
tains, the roads of the harassed old Mother-
State will continue to be among the worst on
the civilised globe. And so with much else of
even greater importance. Under a system of
elective Ministries it would be to no one’s
interest to blither about the bogus wrongs of
uproarious little girls; or to cast the sort of
mud that is a regular feature of the modern
electioneering contest. All personalities,
slanders, rumors, challenges to fight, and
other side-issues being removed from the field
of political strife, there would be proportion-
ately more time to do things. The abolition
of the censure-motion idiocy, and half a
hundredweight more time-wasting devices of
a like description, would provide Parliament
with many additional working weeks and
months in every yoar. The inevitable extinc-
tion of the pernicious party soirit would
enable members to make use of their new
opportunities. The obviously-needed things
• would begin to be done almost as briskly and
efficiently as though Parliament were a busi-
ness house. The seemingly-impossible would
he achieved !
THE COUNTRY THAT DIED OF BAD
SPELLING, WITH SOME REMARKS
ABOUT THE COWGATE IN EDIN-
BURGH.
The Australian Associated Chamber of
Manufactures recently spoke a piece about
decimal coinage, and urged the Australian
Government to do something in the way of
reforming the present absurd system. The
matter aroused just enough interest to cause
an obscure politician to mention it in the
House of Representatives, where it was
gradually yawned to death. The debate
was adjourned amid much heavy breathing.
What would have happened if the Asso-
ciated Chamber of Manufactures had gone
the whole logical animal and proposed a new
alphabet and a sane method of spelling
words —even words of two or three letters —
it is hard to say. Yet this is a subject of
no small importance. It strikes at the root
of the nation’s economy. To put the case
simply and plainly, a complete reform in
spelling, combined with decimal weights and
measures, and a new railway system which
would carry all produce intended for export
to the nearest deep-water port, ought to pay
off Australia’s immense Public Debt. They
ought also—especially the reformed spelling
and the decentralisation —to supply this
country, or any other country like it, with
an army and navy free of cost. The United
States has been spending its dollars like a
cataract to make a short cut by the Panama
Canal, but it might have made a much
shorter and more payable cut by a complete
revision of its dictionary. Time is money,
especially as there is so little time and
Rockefeller owns so much of the money;
and waste of time is waste of money. The
white races have been wasting their sub-
stance at an appalling rate for centuries
merely by their adherence to a tradition
that has neither beauty nor common sense
to recommend it.
A. large section of life is spent in acquir-
ing education, and the biggest part of that
section is spent in acquiring language, which
is the key to all knowledge. The English-
speaking child starts by learning the most
absurd thing in the way of all alphabets.
It ought to be a royal road to learning, but
it only leads to confusion. When he has
acquired the 2G letters he proceeds to
struggle with simple words like “cat” (the
first letter of which is a direct negation of
his previous teaching, while the second, so
far as sound goes, isn’t in the alphabet at
all) : “bag” (which contains two sounds out
of three that aren’t in the alphabet) ;
“which” Imade uo of three sounds, not one
of them being in the alphabet) ; and thou-
sands and thousands of other words, of
which the spelling conveys not the slightest
indication. Pie learns that no one can tell
bv looking at it whether a final “e” is silent
or not. He discovers that “charming.” de-
rived from the French, begins with one kind
of hiss which isn’t in the British collection
of letters; while “champagne,” also from
the French, though its beginning looks th
same, opens witu a different kind of lh-
which is equally absent from the alphabet
As he grows up he becomes informed witl
much labor that the words were imported
from France at different times, when the
English people hissed in different ways He
wastes his young life in realising that out
of the nine letters in “champagne” o nlv
four have the slightest resemblance to the
lessons he picked up with much worry in the
horn-book of infancy, and that of the eight
in “charming,” six form strange, weird ex-
pressions that no one taught him when he
was laying the foundations of knowledge
The English language, as a matter of fact'
has no real alphabet. What it calls one is
mostly an ancient and obsolete frill or riot
The whole business is Chinese. It is brother
to the Aztec picture-script. Every word
has to be learned separately, so that one
may acquire the news that “ieu” j n
“lieutenant” may sound like “ef,” with the
proviso that the “e” in “ef” is quite different
from the “e” in the alphabet; and that “col”
in “colonel” may really be “kur,” this par-
ticular “u” also being completely absent
from the alphabet. No man, even if he
retains his faculties to the age of 80 and
spends his whole time on the study of Eng-
lish, can be sure that he won’t make a vil-
lainously bad spelling in his last will and
testatment, and mispronounce a word in his
final remarks to the doctor who made a
mistake in the operation.
The only excuse for the whole silly dis-
arrangement is that it is ancient. It stands
for tradition. In that respect it reminds
this writer of the Cowgate in the Old Town
of Edinburgh. The Cowgate is narrow and
insanitary. Its big, squalid tenements arc
low of ceiling, breathless, dirty within and
grimy without, short of water, short of
light, and lacking in the rudiments of civili-
sation. But the Cowgate, like the wonder-
ful collection of letters, is very, very old.
History was made there nearly 1000 years
ago. It is the most ancient architectural
wreck of its size in the British Isles, and
even reformers hesitate to destroy it on that
account. Yet the country would be better
and cleaner if it lost its Cowgate. The
alphabet lives on tradition also. It is like-
wise a relic. Its grotesque absurdity adds
probably two years to the time that should
be necessary for the acquirement of a plain
sort of education, and the two years cost
a lot of money, and involve much worry and
misery. And even at the end of the super-
fluous period the scholar probably speaks
badly and spells horribly, through inability
to get over the fact that vowels and con-
sonants were given us to conceal the pro-
nunciation and to obliterate the orthography.
The really well-educated person probably
spends four needless years in ascertaining
that nothing in the language is what it
seems, and that the whole device is Japanese
or Monkey. If half of this wasted period
were given to the study of science or
mechanics, the rising geheration would start
much better equipped for the battle of life.
And if the other half were given to military
or naval training, the defences of the coun-
try would be a lot more efficient. Further-
more, if the money that is wasted in ham-
mering it into the miserable infant that
even a simple word like “pig” consists of
one sound that is in the alphabet he has
learned and two noises that he has never
been taught, and in explaining to him thou-
sands of other problems of the sort, were
spent in reduction of the Public Debt, there
would be much less Public Debt than there
is.
In a well-ordered community language
wouldn’t be a dusty relic, or an old tradition,
or an interesting ruin like the Cowgate of
Edinburgh. Being the foundation of all
civilised things it would be the simplest,
plainest, and most efficient scheme that could
be devised. Language is the first necessary
"f life, and the first democratic principle is
to cheapen the necessaries of life and render
their acquisition easy. Anybody who lias
made a success of his existence can spend
his declining years in collecting relics, and
traditions, and old buildings of the Cowgate
pattern, but at the beginning the way should
be made plain. If all the aged superfluities
were eliminated and the business of simple
education put on a sane footing, the young
man who goes on the land might go there
with much more real erudition than he pos-
sesses to-day. And if, when he got on the
land, he found himself blessed with a line o
railway to carry his exports to the nearest
deep-water port, perhaps 100 miles away,
instead of to a congested capital, possim.
800 miles away, lie might make a good dea
more money out of the land. The purpo*
of these remarks, in fact, is to preach t
gospel of the Short Cut, which is the same
gospel that the United States has b
preaching in the matter of the I ana
Canal. When a boy wastes his- time «
school learning that not one of the t
letters in “cow” has the slightest re^ 10 . .
the alleged sound of these letters, he
taking the Short Cut; he is taking the long
way round. When he acquires, the co
Monaro. and takes account of its nml
butter product by an absurdly complicate
table of weights and measures, and
sends the goods of the ill-spelt animal 4W
miles to a port when there is a goo (
unavailable outlet 50 miles away, he i g<
taking the long way round. In tac '• , A
taking it twice over. And always t
way round means waste. Some day a
try like ours will be conquered because nro .
people spent so much time learning
nounce their language that they had
to learn to fight. And when the wa o, e
and the defenders are extirpated, .
University is burned, and thejoea .
ary is hanged by the neck until ff
the scoffing invader will erect on t
a sign as follows:
THIS COUNTRY DIED iHROUt
BAD SPELLING. _
PLAIN ENGLISH.
More Socialism, and No Audible
Protests, Either.
Whenever a Government. Liberal in | ()
ite. appoints a Commission to lmi l 0 t 0
some patent abuse, .the odds are clirt >
one in favor of its recommending < aS a
the thing which Conservatism aepi bave
ravening Tiger. The latest scan <


Extraordinary Announcement to Agents.
Christmas Edition of
The Bulletin, 1913.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE that the
CHRISTMAS NUMBER of “THE
BULLETIN” will be an EXTRA
and SPECIAL ISSUE.
Date of Publication: December 13, 1913.
This SPECIAL NUMBER will con-
tain high-class Stories, Verse and other
Literary Contributions from foremost
Australasian writers.
The Illustrations will be supplied by
the popular Bulletin artists, and
others in the front rank of the artistic
world.
The Ordinary Issue of THE BULLETIN
will be published on the usual date.
Agents are requested to note
that, as the Christmas Number of
‘‘The Bulletin” is now going to
press, the orders that reach us from
now on will be treated in order of
priority.
the light of a Commission directed upon it is
the N. S. Wales milk trade. It is a far
more casually-run business than that of Vic-
toria, or, indeed, of any of the other States
barring perhaps Tasmania. Circumstances
are such that much of the milk which comes
to Sydney may quite possibly be unfit for
human consumption. On the South Coast
there are 12,000 dairies, nearly all of which
send their milk to Sydney; yet Commissioner
Bavin has unearthed the disquieting fact
that there is but one Board of Health inspec-
tor for the lot. So big is the area that the
officer is able to visit each dairy only once
in 18 months. And even when he does
visit a dairy where undesirable conditions
prevail—where, for example, there happen
to be diseased cows —it is not humanly pos-
sible for him to find out more than the pro-
prietor of the living death-traps wishes him
to find out. since, under N.S.W.’s inade-
quate Act, the dairyman cannot be com-
‘ pelled to muster his stock for inspection. If
the inspector trapesed all over the farm in
search of tuberculous or otherwise afflicted
beasts, it would take him at least three years
to complete his rounds. The result is, he
trusts largely to the dairy-farmer’s honesty
—and that is too frail a reed to sustain the
health of any community which is particular
about keeping alive. The inspection of the
metropolitan and suburban dairies is, of
course, a trifle more thorough. Yet it is not
by any means adequate. Fresh cows are
continually arriving at dairies between in-
spections, and though most of them are
doubtless healthy, many are liable to be the
very reverse. The Commissioner’s suggested
remedy is Socialism, and yet more Socialism.
To cope with the situation in the country he
urges the appointment of more inspectors,
with all sorts of additional powers—they
should, among other things, be enabled to
order the segregation of suspected beasts,
and to compel dairymen to muster the whole
of their herds for examination. For the
metropolitan area he recommends increased
inspections of all the dairies, the examina-
tion of each beast that goes newly to a herd,
and the empowering of the inspectors to con-
demn any dairy that strikes him as a menace
to the public health. Further, inasmuch as
the present method of milk-distribution is not
only needlessly costly, but insanitary as well,
he recommends a co-operative scheme. By
the establishment of conveniently-situated
depots, where the milk could be left by the
local dairymen, the following benefits,
amongst others, must accrue: (1) Systematic
bacteriological examination by Health officers
would ensure that the public did not get
watered or contaminated milk; and (2) the
saving involved in the elimination of the
existing wasteful methods of milk-distribu-
tion would bring down the cost of living in
one important respect, while giving the dairy-
man as big a return as ever. Of course the
whole scheme amounts, from start to finish,
to a series of gross interferences with the
rights of Private Enterprise. But what of
it? When, as in this case, the issue is
academic anti-Socialism versus the health of
the community in general, and the lives of
its infants in particular, the doctrine of the
Cave-man merits just what it gets—-the glassy
eye of scorn.
The Cingalee and a Word about Poultry.
Ceylon continues to use threatening lan-
guage towards the team which one of the
cricketing Waddys proposes to take from
Sydney. The Morning Leader, the most
influential paper of the island, says, among
many other things :
Our cricket enthusiasts are recklessly asking the
people of Ceylon to go out of their way to deserve
the unmitigated contempt of the Australians by ex-
pecting them to acquiesce in an invitation to visit
Ceylon extended to persons who do not permit the
people of Ceylon even to enter their country, hut
reject those who barely touch their shores with
every mark of affront. If thesg foolish persons have
no idea of self-respect, it is time that they were
taught it by those who have. Every respectable
Ceylonese paper published in English is decidedly
opposed to the invitation. Every single vernacular
paper of which we have any knowledge is every day
using stronger expressions of objection against this
folly. The minds of the bulk of the people are being
seriously inflamed, and it is impossible even to
conjecture to what lengths the people, if recklessly
aroused, might go. There is neither sense
nor reason in persisting in folly of this
criminal sort. The authorities cannot possibly
approve of a movement which is intensely resented
by the mass of the people, nor can it be their wish
to encourage foolish persons to challenge an open
conflict with national feeling. Accepted by the
masses, such a challenge may lead to very serious
results. Yet we are told that a game of cricket
is worth the risks of a series of riots and outbursts
of popular feeling. Men who are capable of con-
duct so irresponsible as this ought to be sternly
restrained and" kept in isolation if necessary.
Our friend Curry Das mistakes the posi-
tion. It is not true that “the people of
Ceylon are not permitted even to enter”
Australia. There is no law directed specially
against the Cingalee; the law that concerns
him concerned also llan.tit Singiii, and
Kanjit Singiii certainly didn’t have to play
his games of cricket on a pontoon moored in
the harbor. No member of a visiting team
was ever more popular or made more wel-
come —as a visitor. Had he desired to settle
here it would have been a different matter.
The present outcry is produced by the
alleged maltreatment of a doctor, a native
of Ceylon, who arrived as medical officer on
board a P. and O. boat. It is regarded as
outrageous that the country should not be
open to a man of his education and refine-
ment. But, so far from this exclusion being
a Special ground of complaint, the fact that
the country is no more open to him than to
the uneducated and unrefined ought to com-
mend the law. seeing that its purpose is
thereby made plain. The Asiatic idea seems
to be that Australia dreads the cheap colored
laborer. The fact that this country blocks
a doctor, maybe of the highest qualifications,
proves that that idea is quite wrong. What
Australia does want to prevent is the half-
caste. It aims at racial purity. Naturally
it believes that its own white race is superior
to any other. But if it didn’t believe any-
thing of the sort i£s aim would still be the
same—the preservation of racial purity: a
purity which demands that people of other
colors, cultured and uncultured alike,_ shall
be excluded. There is no question of insult
or affront in this —no more insult or affront
than the breeder of white leghorns offers to
the malay or the brahmapootra when he
nails up his pens against those types.
__ ♦
The Straight Tip of an Australian Who
Has Been There.
From the narrative of Australian journalist
Martin' Donohoe, the London Chronicle’s
correspondent in the Balkan shindy, who re-
turned home recently :
Death is the lightest of the ills that beset the
soldiery, and in many cases the non-combatants in
the war area....ln Thrace I have seen men affected
by cholera and wounds left to die where they fell
through want of ambulance and medical treatment.
Bodies of the wounded were ground into the earth
by artillery and transport, until they became part
of the road itself. A crawling mass of wounded be-
came an inert slough, over which the waggons rolled
mercilessly.... On the occasion of Lule Burgas, at
the terrible disaster that overtook the Turkish arms,
I retreated with them. Discipline—that mysterious
thing that holds an army together by iron bands—-
had fallen out of its human mosaic. The shells of the
enemy cruelly punished the retreating horde. They
could make no return ; they were no longer an army ;
they had melted back to primitive atoms.
There are still some foolish people who think
the Australian can look after himself with-
out military training. “Give him a gun and
a horse,” say these enthusiasts, “and he’ll
come out all right.” Lule Burgas proved
that, without discipline—“that mysterious
thing that holds an army together by iron
bands,” as Donoiioe puts it —men are merely
a horde to be butchered, and discipline comes
only from long and careful training. The
Turks had horses and guns; they also had
discipline, but they didn’t have enough of it
to retain what they had when the pinch
came. So they were outed. Also, the
shirkers who agree that discipline is all right
for the other fellow, but think they will be
able to stay safely at home while the other
fellow fights, might digest Donohoe’s re-
marks about what frequently happens to the
non-combatants in the war area. Moreover,
Australia might note Donohoe’s observa-
tions concerning the lack of ambulance and
medical equipment among the Turks, and ask
itself if it is preparing to be any better off.
And, finally, here is a bit of Donohoe that
might be useful to the Peace Society:—
I am satisfied that if anyone who talks of disarmament
and objects to nations acquiring means of defence,
were to see some of these horrors he would never
sleep in his bed until satisfied that his country had
a good national army behind it. Unpreparedness, I
am convinced, is simply an invitation to other
nations to attack, while preparedness is a premium
and insurance.
The Bookmaker, the Parson, and Their
Joint Ally.
From the 8. M. Herald (20/11/’l3) ;
A correspondent writes: “On behalf of a great
number of racegoers, may I ask, through your
paper, which party—Mr. Wade’s (Lib.) or Mr.
Holman’s (Lab.) —is in favor of passing legislation
to legalise the Totalisator ?”
The paper warily left the conundrum un-
solved. It knew the query was loaded.
Had a general election not been imminent,
the Herald would have explained, prob-
ably, that as regards Tote legislation, both
parties are, and always have been, equally
remiss; and if it had been seized with an
exceptionally acute spasm of veracity, it
might have gone farther and mentioned that
the Party system is to blame. Consider the
way of it. The community, as a whole,
unquestionably wants the Tote. Ilacegoers
want it because they are sick of the
pinched prices offered by the bookmakers:
sick of backing favorites that are out for
an exercise gallop, owing to their owners
having been got at by the King; and
scandalised at the cynicism with which the
gigantic ramp known as the “sport of kings”
is worked under existing conditions.
The public which doesn’t go racing wants
the Tote, because it means lessened
taxation to them, and other benefits to
boot. The hospitals of N. S. Wales could
be maintained on a solvent basis, without
either Government subsidies or the debasing
necessity of Hospital Saturdays and the
like, with the surplus after the Tote had
returned successful investors their divi-
dends, paid its own working expenses, and
in general squared things up. The only
losers, by its arrival, would be a crowd of
bookmakers, most of whom would be driven
automatically to grapple with some form of
honest toil. One other class is hostile to
it —a class which never goes racing, which
has not seen the Tote in operation, and
which knows no more of the inner running
of the wagering game, as it is played at the
present time, than it does of the appearance
of the scenery in Gehenna. These, of
course, are the parsons. For every parson
or bookmaker who is hostile to the Tote
there are, however, a hundred ordinary citi-
zens who favor it; but they are unorganised
and their voice is consequently inarticulate
in a political sense. That is where the
Party feature of the case comes into opera-
tion. Under the Party system the will of
the people, as a whole, must be expressed
with almost deafening vehemence if it is to
overmaster one or more block votes. The
anti-Tote faction is particularly strong, inas-
much as it is composed of two distinct
crowds whom no other issue could possibly
bring together. The bookmaking element
commands the support of the “sports”—the
huge army of gamblers, guns, whisperers,
pub-loafers, kerbstone loiterers, and all those
chronic punters who lack the nous to under-
stand that the man who lays them the odds,
when required, is financially their worst
enemy. The clerical element is represented
by a following which would not touch the
other element, in a social sense, with a 40ft.
pole. Earnest church-workers. Sabbath-
school superintendents, Baptist elders,
Methodist class-leaders, mission- and bazaar-
frequenters—all that is most expansively
and obtrusively holy in the community
stands solidly with the bookmakers on the
question of the undesirability of the Total-
isator. The combination is too dangerous
to be thwarted by any Administration
which has the least regard for office. As
the chief aim of every Administration is to
get office at any price, and hang on to it
on any terms, the parson-bookmaker alliance
is never caused a moment’s real uneasiness.
For years and years the Tote question has
been left enthusiastically by the Govern-
ments of the day to a private member, whose
handling of it has °'iven equal pleasure to
Church and Bing. The McGowen Adminis-
tration went so far, a couple of years ago,
as to anpoint a Commission to inquire into
the advisabilitv of introducing the Totalisa-
tor to N. S. Wales. The evidence in favor
of the step was overwhelming. There ap-
peared to be a clear majority of Commis-
sioners for the proposed change. Then
something happened. Nobody will ever
know, for certain, just what it was, though
many have ventured bitterly to. surmise. It
may be that the clerical opponents of the
Tote squared some of those Commissioners,
who were suspected of favoring it. with
promises of a regard in the Hereafter.
Anyhow, the pflo-Tote majority fell clear
through the ceiling. The entire movement
dropped dead, and has remained so ever
since. Nor is it likely to be re-vivified while
Party Government remains. To expect a
Party leader to act in open opposition to
the combined forces of Gambling and Wow-
serism is tantamount to expecting a thor-
oughbred Hebrew to refrain from collecting
the insurance money. It is against nature.
♦
It reads magnificently in the Maoriland
Worker :
The call has gone forth for the general strike —
the workers’ answer to the agreement breakers and
maladministrators of the law. Railway men and
tramway men and shearers and seamen and carters
and printers—especially the printers who set into
type the scab advertisements and lies of the daily
press—and all the rest of the wealth-making workers
who are determined not to scab on the rest of the
working class, will, we hope, ere this appears in
print, have downed tools —will have given the use-
less drones of the ruling class a chance to do the
work themselves. Giant Labor will be resting. Mag-
nificent has been the solidarity of the workers so far
in .this, struggle. Let that magnificent solidarity be
maintained. Let all the wealth-makers range them-
selves against all the exploiters, and victory is ours.
This is the day and this the hour of mighty possi-
bilities. The throne of Capitalism rocks and totters,
and in the hearts of the workers Freedom’s song is
swelling. The day comes apace when they “who sow
the light shall reap the golden sheaves of morning.”
Till that day comes, let our watchword be Working-
class Solidarity!
But even a bunch of parsnips in the soup-
pot would be more nourishing for the young-
sters at home, especially if dad isn’t goirg to
have another nay day till “the wealth-makers
range themselves against all the exploiters”
and gain the victory. There’s a better way
to get at the exploiters than downing tools,
and marching in a procession with a band,
and heaving rocks at blacklegs, and getting
cracked good and plenty by ironwood batons.
That better wav is to range together and
capture the legislative places where the laws
are made. It’s quicker, cheaper, less dusty
and noisy and painful, and more enduring.
Ysk the exploiter which he’s afraid of most.
b ROM the “Old Soldier” :
The Bulletin was none too severe on the wretched
quality of the saddle-horses to be seen at Agricul-
tural Shows all over Australia. It follows that the
class of horses available for military purposes must
be poor. If there is to be a change money will have
to be spent. In other countries, particularly those
that have known the horrors of invasion, no price is
considered too big to ensure that there shall be no
shortage of remounts in time of stress. France, for
example, has had national stables since Colbert’s
time, 200 years ago. The nation now breeds a
thoroughbred (locally known as the “Anglo-Arab”),
the result of a cross between the British blood horse
and the best Arab stock procurable. It pays cheer-
fully from ,-6 240 to £2BO for Arab sires, and
divides £31,903 in prize-money among the 1109
race-meetings held in France. It holds a great an-
nual horse-show yearly in the Champs Elys&es, where
a champion prize is given for chargers winning four
contests. French cavalry also have long-distance
riding tests. Each regiment taking part turns out an
equipage or crew, consisting of an officer, a n.c.o.
and four men equipped for service. The idea is to
cover 220 miles in three days, and bring in men and
horses in good condition. This year the President
of the Republic received each equipage at Auteuil as
it arrived, and every man who came in fit got a
medal. Quite half the officers of the French Army
are mounted on thoroughbreds. There is in the
French Chamber a party called “the Group for en-
couraging the breeding of the war-horse,” and a
similar one is being formed in the Senate. Here are
its proposals: “(1) That the average price paid be
increased; (2) that a prize be given to the breeder
of horses bought for remounts; (3) that prizes be
given for the conservation of brood-mares; (4) that
the age of purchase of war-horses be reduced to three
years; (5) that the number of brood-mares placed out
with property owners be increased ; (6) that the Ad-
ministration be recommended to buy such reproducers
of the war-horse as are indicated by the supreme
council of the National stables.” The idea is that
France should make itself independent of private en-
terprise for the breeding of cavalry and artillery
horses. Too many Frenchmen now alive remember
the agony of ’70 —a result of going to war unpre-
pared, with a bad, makeshift artillery, insufficient
horse-supply, and obsolete fortresses. " The French
have had their lesson, and it has impelled them, re-
gardless of cost, to correct the mistakes of 43 years
ago. Australia has not suffered yet. That is why it
still jibs at expense, and seeks salvation in imported
“experts.” The fact is no expert alive can help it
beyond a certain point. The overseas warrior can but
teach Australia’s soldiers and sailors a little drill. It
will have to invent its own fighting organisation to
suit its own peculiar conditions as every other coun-
try has done. Above all, it will need to have the
appurtenances of war—-amongst which horses occupy
a prominent position—ready and trained for years
before the hour of trial.
♦
The Age declares that the Henderson Pro-
gramme is utterly beyond the pockets of
Australia, and must be modified. That pro-
gramme provides for: 8 armored cruisers,
10 protected cruisers, 18 destroyers, 12
submarines, 3 depot ships for flotillas, and
1 fleet repair ship. Well, Chile is a
smaller and much poorer country than Aus-
tralia. and has about a million less people.
Yet it is building two 28 000-ton Dread-
noughts, to be armed with 10 14-inch and 12
six-inch guns. It has a pre-Dreadnought
battleship, two armored cruisers, three pro-
tected cruisers, three torpedo gunboats, 13
destroyers, five modern torpedo boats, two
submarines, a mine and a hospital ship.
Chile has a coastline of only 2485 miles to
protect. Australia has a coastline of
approximately 12,000 miles. To carry out
the Henderson programme may be a big
job— but it is the price of a continent. Does
the Australian nation want this continent,
or is it prepared to abandon it? Let the
alternative be faced frankly.
People are beginning to wonder what sort
of game the Cook-Ivelly-Millen crowd is
playing with the aerial branch of the Aus-
tralian Defence Scheme. It is said that
the five aeroplanes imported by the Fisher
Government have not been even unpacked,
and are lying in some bonded store. Any-
how, with five machines and two first-class
pilot aviators on hand, not a single military
flight has been made. A wild-cat yarn has
been told about the Australian atmosphere
being unsuitable; but that is absurd—both
bi- and mono-planes have successfully flown
over the Sahara and in various parts of Aus-
tralia as well. The excuse that the machines
cannot be put into service till there are
hangars to house them will not hold water
either. Hammond and Hart didn’t have
[miner hangars ; Hart’s machines at Parra-
matta had nothing but a tarpaulin and an
ordinary shed to cover them. And in war
time the ’planes will not be able to tow
their hangars after them. Apparently, the
Cook-Kelly-Millen party is opposed to the
development of our national defence on the
existing plan, and, not having the courage
to say so, sets to work to kill the aviation
branch by letting it stagnate to death.
In those parts of N. S. Wales where wheat
is the principal topic of conversation and is
alleged to be the main product of the soil,
and where the rural workers are demanding
more wages and better conditions, the posi-
tion of the share farmer is of considerable
interest. In the bulk he is probably the
biggest employer of rural labor, for the share
system has reached out over all the wheat
districts; but it is the big landowner who
is most concerned in the scrap, nevertheless.
In truth, most share cockies are quite will-
ing that the rural worker should have better
conditions —only they want better conditions
themselves first, and a good many of them
want to see the case brought before the
Arbitration Court so that those better con-
ditions may be helped along. Under the
share system the big landlord has been reap-
ing an enormous rental, and of late years
has been increasing his demands. In a good
district, with a railway handy, the share
man is lucky if he gets half the crop, while
he has to find labor to put it in and take it off,
besides buying his bags. In such a district his
share is never more, and often it is less, than
that of the man who owns the land and does
not do a hand’s turn except to collect his
cheque. He certainly takes a chance of the
cron being a failure, but even then he loses
nothing except the use of the land and a
trifle of seed wheat; and in ordinary times
he exacts an outrageous rent. When the
enthusiastic Fat press tells the story of men
making £lOOO and £l5OO in a season from
share farming, they don’t mention that the
landowner is drawing the same, or a
greater amount, for rent. This is a
fact that must have an influence on the
rural-worker question, and evidence on the
subject would be interesting reading.
“Outis” : It is reported that the Common-
wealth Government is disposed to spend
£BO,OOO on an Australian court at the
Panama puppet-show in ’Frisco in 1915, sub-
scribing £20,000 and leaving £60,000 to be
made up by the States pro rata. There is an
Imperial Exhibition in London in 1915, and
£BO,OOO could be spent there with better re-
sults —that is, if any good results ever do
emerge from exhibitions. I’ve seen most of
the big shows of the last 20 years, and they
are mainly run to glorify the commissioners
from foreign countries and fatten Bung and
his camp-followers, whose names mostly are
Petbonius and Aspasia. Chicago, St. Louis
and Paris are merely enlarged Luna Parks
or Wonderlands, or Coney Islands, with all
the delectable means of spending money,
from joy wheels to wiggle waggles, and from
yoshiwarras to Eleusinian mysteries. Even
if this were not so what can Australia gain
by sending manufactured goods to San Fran-
cisco? Buyers, or pirates and imitators?
Which is more likely, an increase of her ex-
ports or an enormous advance in dumped
Yankee imports? Then if we can gain noth-
ing by sending blankets, boots, hats, slops or
harvesters to ’Frisco, what is there left for
us to show in glass and gilt cases in halls of
great splendor and much stucco? Meat,
wheat, wool. Yes, and the Yanks must
come here to buy these necessaries of life,
so we don’t need to send samples. Sam’s
ninety millions of alleged Anglo-Saxons are
not raisins- enough food, in meat or wheat,
and they’ve nearly eaten up all the beasts
which grow the wool. So they must come
here to buy from us, and they will come
more and more every year, whether we pat-
ronise their side-shows or not. Trade from
America is no use to Australia, but Aus-
tralian trade is not merely useful, but vital,
to Americans. Without it they’ll not have
much to eat presently except pop-corn and
chewing-gum, and dashed little to wear except
cotton shirts and bandana handkerchiefs.
♦-
One of dozens of complaints on this matter :
The time is over-ripe for somebody in authority
to inquire into the qualifications required of candi-
dates for jobs as magistrates in Papua. Apparently
anyone who can use a typewriter is eligible. Pre-
vious experience in adjudication is unnecessary. But
he must be a typist. The present method of making
a magistrate is apparently to obtain a youth who
has never seen a nigger in his life, and start him
banging a typewriter at headquarters. After about
six months, when he has ceased to gape open-mouthed
at the natives, and has had it instilled into him
that the country is being run for the exclusive
benefit of the native, and that the white man is an
interloper without any rights to speak of, he is made
a patrol officer. He then goes out with a detach-
ment of Armed Native Constabulary, does a lot of
travelling around, and believes all"that his “boys”
tell him. It is not good to believe all a Papuan
says. A few months patrolling, and he is a magis-
trate, armed with great power over a large district.
He has had no training, has passed no examination,
and his “knowledge” of the country and the peculi-
arities of the natives has been obtained within a few
months. Is it anv wonder that under such a svstem
the Papuan indulges in frequent outbursts of canni-
balism and nlain murder in defiance of the Gub’-
ment? Yet there are, if not plenty, at any rate some,
available men who have been in the Territory for
many years, and who understand the wily Papuan
and his ways. Rut “no residents of Papua need
apply” seems to be an unwritten law in relation to
the Government service. Perhaps, though, the ex-
perienced white resident would have a chance of a
job as magistrate if he would only learn tvpewriting.


THE POLICY OF THE GOVERNMENT
m
>?
IS BACKED BY THE SOUND
JUDGMENT OF THE PEOPLE.
“A WHITE AUSTRALIA
. . . and . .
“MACKIE’S
WHITE HORSE WHISKY.
A GRAND DOUBLE.
The Famous PICTURE BLOCK THEATRES
SIDNEY’S PICTURE
CENTRE.
CQLJ"
lonialth
JU* CONTINUOUS llm,
COLONIAL.
CRYSTAL PALACE.
EMPRESS.
Famous the World over for their LUXURIOUS APPOINTMENTS.
SHOWING ONLY NEWEST 8 BEST PHOTO PLAYS.
The Greater J. D. William* Amusement Co., Ltd.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
Popular Prices—3d. In' 1 n '
Continuous —11 a.m. to l± V-
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Life’s Shop Window.’’
Her Majesty's Quinlan Grand Opera Co.
Palace “The Rebel.”
Adelphi “The Monk & the Woman.’
Criterion “Within the law.”
Little Theatre “The Warning.”
Tivoli Mclntoshs Vaudeville Co.
National Amphitheatre Brennan-Fuller’s Vaudeville.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric 1
Colonial J- Continuous Pictures.
Empress J
Crystal Palace Continuous Pictures, etc.
Olympia I best’s Pictures.
Glaciarium )
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Balkan Princess.”
Princess’s “Night Side of London.”
King's “A Day at the Races.”
Royal. “A Butterfly on the Wheel.”
Majestic Amalgamated Pictures.
Opera House Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
West's Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Silencer’s Pictures.
Auditorium John McCormack.
The Quinlan Opera Co. is creeping wearily
towards the terminus of its 1913 season in
Australia; and, wuth the end in sight, prin-
cipals, chorus and orchestra (not to men-
tion a yawning procession of musical critics)
have had a respite from the recent orgy of
first-night performances. “Boheme,” which
bad been given at a matinee early in the
season, had its first evening performance on
Friday; and, as on the previous occasion,
the orchestra, under Voghera, scored a suc-
cess which ought to be forwarded by wire-
less to Puccini, the composer. The very
popular “Louise” is billed for Saturday, and
the season closes with “Tales of Hoffmann
on Tuesday.
$ * * *
At the Repertory Theatre last Thursday
the Sydney Stage Society gave a delightful
Barrie evening. A repetition of “The
Look” afforded Arthur Styan and Miss Han-
bury Davies opportunity to confirm the
reputation they had made for brilliant
characterisation and a full conception of the
subtleties of Barrie humor. The three-act
comedy, “Alice-Sit-by-the-Fire,” is a modern
play that has taken years to reach Aus-
tralia, simply because the Australian man-
ager has no use and no stock company for
modern comedy, the accepted policy being
to import comediennes but not comedies. As
it has happened that this whimsical satire
of melodrama has not been in the repertoire
of any of the imported comediennes,_ it has
been left for this useful stage society to
present it for the first time. Alice, the wife
of a colonel in India, has sent her three
children to England to be brought up ; and
when she returns with her husband, she and
her children are practically strangers
especially the baby. Cosmo and Amy
already consider themselves grown up and
their mother old. But Alice is younger at
heart than the self-possessed Amy, and not
in the least averse to a slight flirtation
with a silly youth. This innocent affair is
discovered by Amy, who, fed up with a
course of modern drama, instantly sees the
thing in a dramatic light. There is nothing
for her to do but to go to the man’s “rooms”
that evening, in evening dress, confront
him, recover the “letters” and save her fool-
ish and possibly immoral mother from ruin,
even though it is necessary to sacrifice her-
self by claiming that the man is “her affi-
anced husband.” The pretty plot is
romantically carried out, but turns to pos-
sible tragedy when the mother discovers her
child hiding in the man’s rooms. Here the
situation is strongly contrived, and the ten-
sion reaches breaking-point. But comedy
comes back in the third act, where the
mother delightfully submits to her daughter’s
guidance, and wistfully relinquishes her
youth to become Alice-Sit-by-the-Fire. The
situations, especially in Act 1., are artifici-
ally contrived, but all through there is a
ripple of humor, and the absurdities are
in Barrie’s best vein.
* * * *
The piece was admirably produced
by Mr. Leslie Casey. As the melo-
dramatic Amy, Miss Lizette Parkes
gave a finished performance of the flam-
boyance of the flapper; but her
Leonora, played with promise by Miss M.
Mayne, was too colorless. Cosmo (Mr. Iv.
Winchcombe) slightly exaggerated the
characteristics of a typical midshipman, but
the part was consistently held together.
Mrs. R. Suttor, as Alice, succeeded in a
difficult part. Her presentation of the
flirty mother was the best thing she has yet
done. A slight awkwardness of movement
and an equally slight lack of temperament
and vivacity w r ere the only flaws in a per-
formance thoroughly commendable. The
Colonel, interpreted by Mr. E. W. A. Ken-
dall, was. in its way. an equally convincing
niece of characterisation. As the maid. Miss
Hanbury Davies lacked the temperament
for a nart that called for vigor and aban-
don. The chief failure, however, and one
that seriously affected the plot, was Mr.
Gerald Cooper’s Stephen Rollo, the youth
whom Alice inno'cently kissed. He was
stilted and unconvincing. And when will
amateurs learn that an audience dislikes
having to strain its ears all the evening?
Much of Barrie’s subtlety was lost through
the inability or neglect of the majority of the
actors to speak in a tone that would carry
to the back seats. The only one who did
that was Mr. Arthur Styan.
¥ »!» ¥ ¥
“The Warning,” produced by Wilton
Welch at the Little Theatre, Sydney, last
Saturday, is evidently a warning addressed
to dramatists. Henry Basnell shows how
not to write a play dealing with a serious
subject. The White Slave traffic is suffi-
ciently important to inspire a great drama-
tist ; but all that the author has succeeded in
doing is to discuss the subject, rather
drearily, and at great length, with the help
of a highly melodramatic plot. In the first
act the White Slave traffic is amiably and
frankly discussed in the presence of a young
girl; in the second act the girl is abducted
to a white-slave house, and escapes, after a
scene frankly realistic, by a melodramatic ex-
pedient ; and in act three there is nothing
left except a further amiable discussion of
the same subject. As a warning to the
p blic “The Warning” will probably succeed
by the frankness of the dialogue and the
happenings in the house of the red blinds;
but the author has no command over his
material. The melodrama was admirably
presented. Arthur Styan, as the chief
White Slaver, engaged in the exciting trade
of abducting and forwarding cargoes of
what he calls “nice mild cigars, smooth and
green,” to Brazil, was admirable in char-
acter : his attempted seduction of the girl
was a convincing presentation of naked
lust. It was due to him that the melodrama
of this scene attained almost the level of
drama. On the other hand, Miss
Louise Carbasse, with gifts of youth,
beauty and charm, unduly stressed the
melodramatic flavor by her lack of
artistic restraint. Her work, neverthe-
less, in the lighter moments, was delight-
ful ; and it is evident that she possesses
emotional powers that only require more
balance. Gerald Kay Souper made the most
of a difficult and rather dreary part. An
obvious fault in the casting was the doubling
of the parts of a White Slave agent, a
waiter in an hotel, with the part of another
waiter in the same hotel. Miss Clara
Stephenson as the girl’s mother, Miss
Athena Claudius as the keeper of the
house, and M'.iss Agnes Keough as a mem-
ber of a very old profession, gave admirable
renderings of their roles. The locality of
the play was insufficiently indicated : in one
speech the words “pounds” and “dollars”
were both mentioned.
.. * * * *
“The Rebel,” Allen Doone’s new play,
which was put on at the Palace (Sydney)
on Saturday night, is the most spirited
drama the American actor-manager has yet
shown Australia. This was plain in despite
of the fact that it had not been rehearsed
"LA BOHEME," AT HER MAJESTY'S
(SYDNEY).
W. J. Samuell asks the tearful tenor (Maurice
& Only) to cheer up.
enough. The story has to do with the pat-
riotic rising in Ireland’s ill-fated year of
’9B, although for that matter it might easily
enough have been fitted to any other such
catastrophe. The tragedy of nourishing a
traitor at the bosom of the conspiracy is
the peg upon which the series of sharply-
dramatic incidents spin. Captain Arm-
strong (Onslow Edgeworth) is a whole-
souled loyalist who has impressed all but
one of the council of rebels that he is sin-
cere for “the cause.” The suspicious one,
Ned McDermott (Clive Farnham). is un-
fortunate enough to intercept a letter from
Armstrong asking for troops to arrest the
clutch on the night the great signal is to
be given. McDermott decides to denounce
the traitor at the council meeting, and, as
proof, produce the letter. Naturally, he
loses the letter, through the sagacity of
Armstrong, and the compliments that ensue
at the council table when it is not forth-
coming have plainly been copied from the
Hansard reports of the House of Repre-
sentatives. The two men fight a duel on
the spot, and Villainy drinks first blood.
After that it goes on lapping up ber-lud in
great style. The leader of the rising, Jack
Blake (Allen Doone), is caught and sen-
tenced to rope and soap, but thoughtfully
swaps places with a friendly corpse who is
“TALES OF HOFFMANN," AT HER
MAJESTY'S
(SYDNEY).
The spectacle merchant (Chas. Magrath) shat-
ters the doit and a Hoffmann love-dream.
tenanting a coffin that lie has really no need
of. After that he is buried, but is dug up
by body-snatchers (Col. Ryrie, M.H.R.,
knows all about them) just in time to col-
lide with old-friend Armstrong. To round
things off nicely, Armstrong is presented
with the vacant shell, while the ex-tenant
quits with the heroine for France.
* * * *
Doone worked hard to make a success of
the piece, and dragged a somewhat unpre-
pared cast through creditably. Edna
Keely, as the heroine, had a part from which
she kindly obliterated more of Edna Keely
than usual. The best character work was
done by Tom Buckley, as a black-hearted
blind pedlar, taking English money in re-
turn for Irish blood. Arrangements have
been made for him to get out at the back of
the theatre each night for the next couple
of weeks disguised as a whisky traveller.
* * *
Cri. “Within the Law.” Tenth week.
* * *
“The Confession” ends at Sydney Royal
on Friday night, when the last audience will
be given absolution. “Life’s Shop Window,”
quite a different sort of play, will make a
start on Saturday.
* * * *
“The Monk and the Woman,” which got
more than its fair share of free ads. during
a previous visit, made its re-appearance at
the Adelphi on Saturday night, and the “Full
House” notices worked overtime. George
Cross, as the monk and the principal ex-
tractor of protests and subsequent news-
paper boosts, is quite as big a success as he
was on the last occasion; and Miss Yera
Remee does very creditably as his aider and
abettor in the worthy cause. T. W. Lloyd
as the bad egg of the show infuses sufficient
villainy into it to satisfy anyone, and Arthur
Shirley and F. W. Crossley as the King
and the comic monk are the principal also-
rans in a very
* * ••;: *
The Five Petle.vs ana Barton and Ashley
are this week’s additions to the Tivoli pro-
gramme. This paper has no fault to find
with the Petleys’ turn; although it is by no
means new, it is very cleverly and cleanly
done, particularly when the leader of the
bunch does it. The lady partner’s ground-
work is also high-class. Barton and Ashley
are responsible for a rather humorous sketch,
and introduce a bit of step-dancing for no
particular reason. The Primroses (last
nights), Rosa Roma, Richards Bros, and the
Golden Troupe are the other most distin-
guished actors in the present corroboree.
Elaborate preparations have been made
for the opening night of Sydney’s new big
White City, at Rushcutter’s Bay, on Satur-
day. Novelties have been collected in
America. Europe and England (including
George Reid, who will give a private exhi-
bition of how to flood the acreage with elec-
tric light on Friday evening), and the
problem of how best to spend summer’s hot
nights in the open air threatens to be finally
solved.
$ ¥
Baily’s posing dogs are still the admira-
tion of the Fullers’ customers at their Syd-
ney house of varied entertainment
(National). Anybody can go to the dogs
for one shilling, and when nice girls like
Jessie Wilton and a few more are thrown
in, to the accompaniment, of music, rag-time
and fancy dancing, it’s dirt cheap at the
price.
** * *
West’s are unreeling at the Glaciarium
and Olympia (Sydney) this week alongfil m
with the hushful title of “Her Ureadful
Secret.” Its moral is : Distrust circumstan-
tial evidence ; and the case for the moral is
conclusive enough to convince the most
hustling promotion-hunter in Police-commis-
sioner Day’s department.
>1:
“Why Girls Leave Home,” the chief at-
traction at the Crystal Palace this week, is
a cheerful burlesque of the modern bellow-
drama ; and the Edison Co., by slightly
exaggerating the proceedings, turns out a
decidedly good film. “A day in port on an
Italian man-of-war” was an interesting naval
film at the same theatre, and the Australian
Gazette contained a good variety of topical
pictures, including some fine yacht-racing
scenes.
“The Butterfly on the Wheel” is still
leaving not a dry hanky among her effusive
feminine sympathisers at Melbourne Royal.
Likewise, her hubby continues to win disap-
proval for his reckless neglect of the lady
when she ached for his canoodling arm. The
inability to see that his missus needed to be
cuddled as well as kept seems to have been a
terrible failing with Admaston, M.P. Ap-
parently he forgot to rush in where Colling-
wood was eager to tread, and the result is
Divorce Court proceedings, wild weeping, and
Costs.
Apparently J. C. Williamson, Ltd., has con-
cluded that the discussion on “Autumn
Manoeuvres” at Her Majesty’s Melbourne,
has gone far enough, for to-morrow (Friday)
the Firm will move that the entertainment
be no longer heard. On Saturday “The
Balkan Princess” is down for a first reading
in Melbourne, and Florence Young and a
large company will take part in the debate.
v ¥
A couple of changes are happening in “A
Day at the Races” at Melbourne King’s. Miss
Elaine Ravensberg is advertised to take the
place of Gertrude St. Clair, who is leaving
the part of Cleo de Voy to keep some gigan-
tic engagement in Saghalien or else-
where. The newcomer is not unknown to
the critics of this country, for she appeared
in a Bilanderson panto, seven years back,
gracefully fufilling the functions of a prin-
cipal boy. The role of Mike Joy, the
Dutchman in the “Races,” is also to lose
its unpleasing exponent, Frank Yack. It is
understood that Paul Stanhope, formerly the
dismal racecourse waiter in the show, will
now make the role of the fat foreigner his
good excuse for accepting a salary from the
management.
s|s % Hs ❖
“The Night Side of London” is once more
entertaining all the world and its flapper at
Melbourne Princess’s. This is the play,
shriek, or public calamity in which Herod
Steinberg supnlies buxom creature-comforts
for dissipated capitalists. It is also the
howl wherein the Rev. Manuel Errington
mixes pious platitude with polite stoush in
rescuing the soiled and tattered damsels of
Herod’s “typewriting” joint. This time
Cyril Mackay carries on Manuel's orgy of
salvation and gives a clever counterfeit pre-
sentment of ’All Caine’s John Cyclone at
(say) an elocutionary competition. Vivian
Edwards plays Herod, the Tartrarch, with
the right allowance of nose and bad temper;
Herbert Leigh is the dear old grandpa who
succors his daughter’s crippled cheild; and
Frank Neil is the blind fiddler who furnishes
unmusical intimations of his constant desire
to finger the wundpipe of Ilerod aforesaid.
The voice of Max Clifton is occasionally
heard in the general uproar, w T hile Miss
Marie D’Alton enacts the youthful Naomi,
who, having forsaken the narrow path of
righteousness for the broad track of vice, gets
terribly upset by the break of gauge. As
for Miss Elwyn Harvey, she is gently
pathetic as Esther Doringcourt; while the
comic reliefs, Miss Nellie Holroyd and
Brandon Cremer. are hereby bound over in
two sureties of 3id. tp keep the peace for
47 years.
$ $ $ $
Tenor McCormack, having sung his good-
bye to Sydney, and banked the money, is to
brave the enthusiasm of his Melbourne ad-
mirers in three final farewell concerts at the
Auditorium next Saturday and the Tuesdav
and Thursday following. Prices w r ill be as
usual, and the programmes will be the cus-
tomary melodious assertions of the import-
ance of Kathleen Mavourneen.
Proceedings at Melbourne Opera House
were still further suffused with Amurkan
“business” on Saturday, wlien the Six
Hoboes appeared again for a short season.
Gene Greene, who turns on the current of
ragtime at great expense, is still the cause
of much excitement ; and the patter in-
dulged in by Du Calion at the top of his
ladder is equally a subject for public ap-
proval. Frank Fox and Miss Bonnie Leo-
nard are still most reluctant to leave the
premises, but Miss Whitaker is departing
with the musical husband whom she carries
around for exhibition purposes.


THe World’s Best.
DAIMLER
Motor Lorry.
Silent Knight Engine.
Shaft Drive No Chains.
SUNSHINE
Motor Cars P*t*y
Melbourne.
H\igH V. McKay, Sydney &. Adelaide,
) Sole
f Agents.
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
Pitt & King Streets, SYDNEY.
Victorian Branch : 50 Queen Street, Melbourne, s. J. fowler, Manager.
Queensland Branch : 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane, j. a. watson, Manager.
FIRE, ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, etc.
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
’Phone No. 236 Central. SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
rOORD & SON
VJ LOUDON, ENGLAND
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
w
6^
&
&
DT
I SWIFT &• COMPANY. AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS, OCONNEIX ST SYDNEY |
T. J. West gave due emphasis in Mel-
bourne last Saturday to a biographic version
of “The Prisoner of Zenda,” presenting the
Yankee mummer, J. K. Hackett, in the dual
roles of the King and Rudolf Rassendyll.
The film is a decidedly good piece of ani-
mated fiction, and the acting of Hackett is
in the successful style of the showy artist
obviously enjoying his own genius. “The
Celestial Republic” pictured to the eye
some bits of Canton which the nose would
never fail to notice; and “The Atheist”
busily supported the quaint theory that
agnosticism in religious matters is neces-
sarily associated with looseness in other
things.
He $ $ $
Gregan McMahon is drilling his amateurs
for further outbreaks at the Melbourne
Athenseum on December 6,8, 12 and 13.
The bill for the first two dates is Stanley
Houghton’s “Fifth Commandment.” preced-
ing Macdonald Hastings’s “New Sin,” which
rejoices in a cast entirely of men, and is
therefore a comparatively silent contribu-
tion to the literature of the theatre. On
December 12 and 13 McMahon repeats
Barney Shaw’s “Candida,” with Arthur
Schnitzler’s “The Mate” as an overture.
* ~ H« *
“Officer 666” (clumsy title) was given its
trial Australian trip by Fred Niblo at Ade-
laide Royal. It is something new in three-
act plays, being practically one of the little
tabloid “thrillers” expanded, decked with
much light comedy, and taken slowly—ex-
cept for one breathless minute when the
stage is filled with a shouting crowd in com-
plete darkness. Gladwyn. the young New
Yorker, is in his gallery of priceless pictures
when a charming stranger arrives, having
an appointment, she says, to marry Gladwyn
and take some of the best pictures on the
honeymoon. It doesn’t need a Sherlock
Holmes to guess at impersonation effected
Vidor Prince as Soldier
Sykes.
“AUTUMIN
MANOEUVRES,"
AT HER
MAJESTY ’S
(MET BOURNE).
Robert Whyte, Jun.,
as Major-General
Pomeroy.
nnd burglary projected, so he bribes Con-
stable 666 for the loan of a police uniform,
and when the gentlemanly picture-thief (call
him Raffles) arrives, Gladwyn, as officer on
duty, accepts him as master of the house,
and even makes no move while the pictures
are cut out of their frames. Then enter
many police, to whom both men claim to be
the real thing. By the time matters are
sorted out, Gladwyn’s sympathy (and the
audience’s) is with Raffles, who ultimately
strolls away in the uniform of helpless 666.
“A hell of a cop Oi am !” the latter admits
candidly. Greig scored heavily in the part,
so did Niblo as Gladwyn, a Kaiser-like
moustache making a curiously effective dis-
guise ; but, to be candid, Sydney Stirling
dominated the stage whenever he was on it.
It is a pleasant fantasy, though it won’t
stand a moment’s analysis. Two instances
of its ingenuity. The difficulty is notorious
of getting stage paintings that look really
valuable; so the most prominent of Glad-
wyn’s collection, a Gainsborough, is allowed
to be a “fake,” and has ridicule poured on
it. (Art critics forestalled.) And at the
end, to the girl’s “One would think all this
could not happen except in a play,” the hero
replies calmly: “Believe me, dear, it
couldn’t!” (Dramatic critics disarmed.)
# * * *
Adelaide is having several old friends hack.
Lillie Langtry and the lioop-spinning Mul-
lers at the Tivoli, which has wisely lowered
its prices for summer. There also you can
see Reynolds and Donegan’s graceful skating
tricks and the daring blindfold work of Joe
Fan ton’s co. The Banzai family are back
at the King’s. The Royal has “On Our
Selection”; the Rudd family are much as
before, but there are some new faces on the
melodrama side of the piece. Niblo has
gone West after two nights of “Excuse Me,”
the cheerful l'ullman car farce, in which
Beatrice Holloway got a chance at last, as
did also that sound artist, Maurice Dudley.
It is a fine co. of actors and actresses, and
Adelaide will not easily forget Josephine
Cohan’s “Fortune Hunter” sketch of an hys-
terical girl on the edge of a breakdown. The
open-air Dandies are struggling against un-
seasonable wintry weather, and the most
striking thing in the picture line is Wonder-
graph’s “Humanity,” the old, old staircase
fight coming out finely on the film.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Theorbo”’: Marches!, just dead, was not only the
greatest teacher of prima donnas ever known; she
was the only distinguished woman of any time at
that game. Women in the past had the same preju-
dice against female teachers as they have against
fe:i ale accoucheurs. Her pupils included Melba,
Ada Crossley, Di Murska, Krauss (formerly the prin-
woman at the Paris Opera), Gerster, Nevada,
Calve, Saville, Eames, Sanderson, Felice Lyne and
a host of others. Mendelssohn having discovered her,
and brought her out, she studied for four years with
the eminent Manuel Garcia in Paris. He directed her
mind to teaching, which he said was her forte,
and for a time she handled all his pupils. Her London
d6but as a singer was in 1849, and she was instantly
a favorite at Benedict’s and Hullah’s concerts. it
was about this time that she married Salvator
Marchesi, Marquis of Castrone, a political exile, who
had turned singer. She first became a regular teacher
in the Vienna Conservatoire, where she stayed for
seven years. Thence she removed to Paris, after that
was at the Cologne Conservatoire, and next at Vienna.
After 13 years there she began the most illustrious
part of her career in Paris, where Melba came as a
punil, after failing to get an engagement with the
Gilbert and Sullivan comic opera at the London
Savoy; unaccountably, except on the supposition of
Fate, Sullivan rejected her. Marchesi’s daughter
Blanche has done most of the work with the pupils
of late.
“Billy T.” : Apparently “Harrison O.” and I dunno
where we are in our contentions. I started with a
few words to the effect that the living pictures
were knocking the sensation elements out of popular
bellowdrama, and that plays like “Within the Law”
and “On Our Selection” marked an improvement in
the vulgar taste and a desire for more seemly stuff
than “The Worst Widow in Warsaw” or “The Bad
Girl of Boonambra”; an'd here is Mr. O. back at
me with exclamatory remarks inviting attention to
the superior excellence of “The Silver King” and
“The Red Lamp.” Why has he overlooked “Hamlet”
and “King Lear,” not to mention the brighter efforts
of old Kit Marlow? I tried very hard to emphasise
the fact that I was not extolling either “Within the
Law” or “On Our Selection” as Art, but was merely
setting on record the fact that locally the most stupid
type of melodrama was going down in favor of these
things, which latter were goodly by comparison. This
should not leave “H. 0.” under the necessitv of
demonstrating the superiority of “Othello” over “The
Squatter’s Daughter.”
“Theorbo”: Pauline Bindley, soprano star of that
white wonder, the Sacred Heart Cathedral at Ben-
digo, is to be sent to London for schooling, and a
good whack of public money is in hand for the
purpose. Pauline is daughter of conductor Bindley,
who has charge of the Cathedral musical service.
Melbourne Town Hall is captured to give her a
golden shower-bath. Amy Castles emanated from
the rival Bendigo Church of St. Kilian’s, which
benefited most by the £BO,OOO made by Dean
Backhaus in mining. St. Francis’s, in Melbourne,
has also unearthed a brilliant soprano, Miss Curtin,
following the retirement of Eileen O’Brien and her
sister Josephine. Melba, as Mrs. Armstrong, led
the St. Francis choir for a while before her
financially-disastrous attempt to tour Australia with
John Kruse, the Melbourne violinist.
“Ike Pagliacci”: After a survey of America, C.
Spencer has determined to go in for producing
“movies” in Australia in a big way and with regu-
larity. He made a pot of money with his locally-
produced “Sweet Nell” and “Fatal Wedding.” Thus
encouraged, he has engaged two experienced Yankee
producers, and hustling will start almost immedi-
ately.
The fact that Rosina Buekmann, the Maoriland
soprano, has been engaged for the season of grand
opera in German at Covent Garden at the beginning
of 1914 will be good news to John McCormack. Melba
predicted great things for Rosina, and McCormack,
after returning to London at the conclusion of the
Melba Opera Co.’s tour in Australia, used all his
influence to get the people who counted interested
in her. He managed so well that he soon cabled
her to leave Maoriland and head for the vicinity of
Covent Garden. John reckoned she wouldn’t look
back, and the start seems promising.
“D.C.”: An idea begins to move around that the
Williamson co. wants its actors so tame as to feed
out of the hand. The result of one recent change is
that the noble father and employer who takes pun-
ishment from Mary Turner in “Within the Law” is
now portrayed by Winter Hall, vice Reg Wykeham
retired. The change leaves the heavy work of the
first act considerably heavier, and as the new Dad
preaches mournfully to Eric Maxon before and after
being kissed, the gloom becomes that of a Baptist
chapel when a sinning sister is rebuked. Lawyer
Demarest goes from Winter Hall’s hands to those of
Herbert Ford, who was the Socialist in “Milestones,”
and as a valuable family solicitor is equally satis-
factory. The whole thing obliges Muriel Starr to
toil more strenuously than ever as a dramatic
dynamo.
One of the curious side-shows at the White City,
Sidney’s new amusement ground, is “The Door Mys-
tery,” an invention frem ’Frisco. Entering by a
single door, the visitor finds three doors in the
room, selects one and, moves on through various
rooms all exactly alike, and all fitted with more
doors. The difficulty of getting out of the labyrinth
is such that a workman returning for his coat after
the completion of the puzzle-house at Rushcutter’s
Bay is alleged to be there yet.
More music-hall piracy. An Australian in N’York
sends along a programme of Hammerstein’s Victoria
Theatre, showing that, on October 21, “Joe Cook”
was making a first appearance there in “A Little
of Everything”-—and nothing of it any good, the
Australian in N’York says.
“Norbell”: Seems a waste of good actor to put
Jimmie Atholwood understudying at his time of life,
yet that’s what “The Firm” has been doing with
him lately. However, James is to play Cassim in
the Melbourne “Forty Thieves” panto. “My sins
have found me out,” chuckles James. “The manage-
ment has long suspected me of burlesquing straight
parts, and now they’ve shoved me into pantomime.
Well, it’s been a small ambition of mine for nearly
30 years to have a go at panto., and this is my
first chance.”
Nellie Ferguson, daughter of that youthful veteran
Helen Fergus, will not suffer the flings and arrows
of outrageous villains for the next six months, as
she has had a breakdown in health, and has been
sent away to lead the simple life on a farm.
(Continued on page 37.)
“Briner” : I write deliberately that Defence
Minister Millen and Admiral Patey are not
pulling together. Patey insists on taking all
the reins into his hands. England is to dic-
tate what the Australian National Fleet shall
do. Millen is compromising. Pearce, his
predecessor, would have put his foot down.
What’s ours is our own, but England says
it’s hers. I believe it is Mr. Churchill who
extends a long arm. Anyway, a fight is at
hand for a principle. Which part of the
Flag rules? The Cross or the Jack? If the
Jack is a worry, we will have to do without
it —or else go back to England’s ensign, pure
and simple. In the latter event we should
at least know where we are. At present we
don’t know.
There’s one thing about Jokook that must
be said to his credit: he is always ready to
express repentance when he feels he has over-
stepped the mark. Thus, on November 13,
he so far forgot himself in the House of
Representatives as to snap at Opposition in-
terjectors
You dirty rats! Why not fight a man fairly?
You do not do so at all!
Then, on November 26, at Parramatta, he
confessed this to his constituents: —
The language [in the Reps.] has been very bad;
indeed, the National Parliament is becoming de-
graded in consequence, and men have been behaving
more like wild beasts than human beings.
Now, that’s what might be termed doing a
fair thing in the way of sitting in sackcloth
and ashes.
An angular and unexpected brick has
fallen on Jokook and his mentor Irvine.
They had forced through two decisive bills
by free use of the gag, and doubtless hoped
to reach recess while the Senate was “re-
viewing” them, and arguing over the amend-
ments. But the Labor majority in the Sen-
ate decided not to pull Joe’s chestnuts out
of the fire that way; so its leader coldly in-
quired of Cook’s deputy if he knew of any
reason why the House should not, as was
customary, adjourn pending the decision on
the want of confidence matter moved several
days before by Opposition-leader Fisher, and
treated by Cook and Speaker Johnson as a
private member’s motion, and thus shelved.
No reason being forthcoming, the Opposition
majority adjourned the House and continued
adjourning it. The unexpected part of the
brick lies in the fact that if the Senate con-
tinues this course it will force the Liberals
to the country, inasmuch as a double disso-
lution becomes necessary if the Senate twice
rejects a measure passed by the Reps, or
fails to pass it within a specified time. It
might easily take a year for the Senate to
twice reject the Postal Vote Restoration Bill,
but there is no year’s oelay about this new
course, or anything like it. So the ex-Lab-
orite from Parramatta and the Iceberg are
thinking hard.
THE WELCOME PACKER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It is quite time something was done to stop the
practice of packing people so close that they have
not room to move. I paid 2s. for an early-door
ticket. Then, at 10 minutes to eight the packers
came down, and lifted people bodily, and got them
so close that they could not move.
— Melb. Age correspondent.
I never kissed her till that night;
She used to make me keep my distance;
I never kissed her, honor bright!
She crossed the road without assistance;
Although she knew I meant no harm,
She wouldn’t even take my arm.
I never looped her slender waist,
Or sat enraptured close beside her ;
Remote and shy, she gravely faced
Me always—never tried to slide her
Sweet, powdered face against my sleeve.
Her slowness used to make me grieve.
But one glad night we went to see
Some show. (I quite forget its title.)
Up in the crowded gallery.
(That detail to the yarn is vital.)
The packer came, a man of might,
Aifd (blessings on him !) packed us tight!
That thawed my shy and distant girl;
She snuggled warmly at my shoulder;
Her face was flushed; one splendid curl
Kept drifting from its shining holder.
The crowd with rage and anguish cried.
We panted gladly side by side!
N.S.W.
CIRCLE.
SOCIETY OF ARTISTS.
The Society of Artists (Sydney) has sub-
edited itself very carefully this year, and
the exhibition of pictures in Queen Victoria
Markets is almost startlingly small. The
strict weeding out of canvases brings
the best results of the year’s work
into a more comprehensive vision than
is usuallv possible at art shows. And
it is, of course, on best results that
an artist should be congratulated and
invited to the lemonade department,
or pursued with a loaded hatchet.
Taking the exhibitors in a bunch, the lemon-
ade department is thrown open to the
crowd. E. Griiner, Norman Lindsay, and
Julian Ashton, in particular, are cordially
offered a drop of the boss’s own brand.
Griiner has hastened forward with great
strides, and his color sense has developed so
finely that notable painting from liis brush
is certain in the future. As it is, his big oil
in the present show (“Spring Morning,
Sydney Harbor”) is worth throwing a
frame or two out of the National Gallery
to make room for it. Naturally, the Trus-
tees didn’t think so, which mightily pleased
the representatives of the staff of the Bank
of New South Wales, who, looking around
for a suitable gift for Mr. Russell French,
promptly closed with the artist’s modesty
(100 guineas). As a description of a
Spring morning in Port Jackson, Griiner’s
picture is the whole truth —-there is the
alluring transparency of the cool water, the
rarity of atmosphere, the shade of the
swelling hills, the sprawl of Sydney smoking
lazily in the distance. Griiner’s water-
colors, also, are charming, the particular
gem being “A Beach Idyll” (No. 40).
Norman Lindsay’s painting of the nude
also shows remarkable advance. The type
is less arguable ; the study more widely un-
derstandable. In “Rest” (No. 10), a girl
reclining at full length, there is a delicacy
and charm which mark the coming
painter in distinction to the finished
black and white artist. In some of the
others there is an occasional touch of stiff-
ness in the pose, but there is one, a sketch
of a girl sitting in sunlight in a secluded
spot, that is notably relieved of this.
Julian Ashton makes his hit with a por-
trait of Archbishop Kelly, of Sydney, a
full-length drawing of the R.C. churchman
in his gorgeous harness. The likeness is an
inspiration of the man and the priest, or,
more correctly, of the priest and the man.
The same artist’s portrait of J. C. Watson
(ex-Prime Minister of Australia) suffers
greatly by comparison.
Dominating another side of the gallery is
a great Lambert canvas (“The Holiday in
Essex”) lent by Professor Meyer, an Ameri-
can who has made a collection of the work
''f G.W.L. He paid five hundred guineas
for the picture (which was hung in the
Royal Academy, London, about three years
ago), and will eventually house it in the
United States. It is a study not unlike one
of Lambert’e hung in the N. S. Wales Gal-
lery. but the work is more spirited.
Florence Rodway has a batch of a dozen
of her characteristic pastels, but no specimen
above the standard of her work of the past
couple of years. A head of a girl (“The
Gipsy”) is the pick of the present lot, but
it is much handicapped by the waste of sur-
rounding background.
Thea Proctor has not her best fan design
on the wall this year; nevertheless, her
delicate water-colors are quite distinctive.
Harley Griffiths contributes a very effec-
tive portrait of Brother Chidley, the
prophet of the simple life, who peddles his
gospel through Sydney’s streets barefooted,
wearing a half-time tunic for the same pur-
pose that other men wear leg-covers. The
picture is an arresting effort in low tone.
A large water-color landscape of Canberra
bv the same artist looks as if he had painted
it small and then ironed it out to fit a spare
frame that it was a pity to waste.
Sydney Ure Smith donates some water-
color sketches of Sydney town in its cramped
and squalid youth—good, like most of his
work. In the same branch of the show
Alfred Clint has a couple of little things
that will keep his reputation jogging along.
Turning away towards the black and
white section the visitor comes across sev-
eral of Howard Ashton’s oils, but why they
are there is something of a mystery. A
couple of years ago Howard Ashton was
producing some very pleasing effects in
color, but these are a fall-away.
The black and white exhibits are, of
course, overborne by Norman Lindsay,
though there is less of his great work than
on previous occasions. Brother Lionel has
the distinction of being the only exhibitor
whose work the National Gallery trustees
thought they could spare 30s. or so for. They
bought three of his etchings of old Sydney.
In sculpture, Mildred Lovett shows the
way to do it with the head of a boy.
Altogether the show is a credit to a
Society which has had scant encouragement.
Perhaps the tide of encouragement is be-
ginning to set in. Kindly congratulations
have been drowned in the clink of coin at
the sales desk, and would-be purchasers
who came too late for envied canvases have
been scattering commissions.


$
\\
f*
GOLF SHIRTS GIO
Outstanding Value
Made of fine Oxford Shirting, of Scotch
Manufacture —exceptionally strong, cool, and
of smart design, in fast colorings. White
grounds, with Black or Blue stripes; and
Blue ground with neat stripes. Comfortably
cut Golf Shirts with a detachable collar of
same material, turn-back cuffs. These Shirts
are acknowledged leaders for value —every
nart of them is well made. Sizes 14 to 174
neck 5/9 each
Or 3 for 16/9
CARRIAGE PAID ON ALL SHIRTS.
DAVID JONES, Ltd.,
Opp. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
-m 1
Rugelmann’s
Pure Herbal
Skin Soap.
“Beauty’s Aid.”
Free- *am pie sent on Receipt of
Twopenny Stamp.
Kugelmann's Pure Herbal Skin Soap may b*!®b
ta.ned at all Chemists, Drapers and Storelte I
throughout Australasia, at 2/6 per box of three
tablets. If not obtainable locally, send 1 ll( |.
or Stamps of any State, to the value of 3/- D
in" postage), when box will be posted per
mail.
Sole Proprietors:
H. E. KUQELHANN & CO.,
Wholesale Druggists and Manufacturers,
14=16 Queen Street, MELBOURNE; P« Street,
SYDNEY; and at ADELAIDE and BRISBAT
Society
PENEOLD'S
WINES
UNKIND.
THE MALE : “ Yaas, I assuah you my father's
will provided that Ai should receine the
whole of his fortune token I became a
man , and ”
THE FEMALE : “ And who will get it now? ”
, tt , u T , 0
From the Hawera (M.L.) oTAR:
Middle-aged German Gentleman, musical and fond
of cows, wishes to correspond with view to matri-
mony; one in comfortable circumstances preferred.
TT ress ’ »11 ’ apon^ a ’ . . rp a _ ann fr:
Hawera, you 11 understand, is in Taranaki,
where btrawberry is queen, and the cultiva-
tion of the cream cheque is ot more c°nse-
quence than anything else in the whole
wor^c *-
Rev. V. S. Cuthbert, Methodist minister, of
Portland (Vic.), just back from “abroad,”
has a fearful tale to tell. “The two great
curses of England are drink and the Anglican
Church. I don’t know which is worse....
The High Church is pushing England into
Romanism.... England is honeycombed with
secret societies, working for Rome.... The
Universities show Romish sympathies. . . .The
House of Lords is doing its best to Romanise
England.” It is plain, then, that all roads
lead to Rome. Nietzsche says alcohol and
Christianity are the two drugs that have
worked most,mischief among men. Cuthbert
makes it alcohol and Anglicanism, but he is
also down on Rome, the road to which is
the road to ruin. Alas, then, there is obvi-
ously no hope for humanity but in Metho-
dism !
Appropriately it was Love, S.M., who last
week in Sydney tackled a question in which
the frivollers of the pavement are con-
cerned. Incidentally he gave an interpreta-
tion of “offensive behavior” which sent a
cold shiver down the spines of all the
policemen in the court. Mr. Love actually
said that if a woman spoke to a man in the
street, it could not be taken as proof of
offensive conduct. A solicitor added that
the gentleman addressed, so far from being
offended, might even feel flattered. There-
fore the next constable who arrests a girl
and trusts to having her sent up on the
strength of offensive behavior, “because she
accosted men in the street and spoke to
them, your Worship,” will strike a snag.
Dozens of girls have gone to gaol on the
hypocritical charge; but in future the
police will have to find some other under-
hand way of controlling that traffic which
the Gimlet Brigade says vehemently shall
not be controlled, yet is controlled, in spite
of them.
The truly aldermanic mind can retard
the footpath on one side of a lamp-post as
native land, and that on the other side as
foreign territory. The good alderman
knows all his frontier lamp-posts, and the
best alderman teaches them to his friends
and their young, in order that the sacred
suburb may be preserved for ever from con-
quest by the mad foreigners who believe in
Greater Melbourne or Greater Sydney and
have no respect for pocket patriotism. A
week or so back there was a procession of
drags loaded with strictly patriots
round the suburb of Coburg (Vic.). It
looked like a disconnected length of funeral,
but it wasn’t anything of_ the kind; the
mayor, councillors and nuisance inspector
had merely taken a few hours off to per-
form the ancient and useless stunt known
as “beating the bounds.” The original pur-
nose was to show the younger generation of
English villagers exactly where their inter-
ests ended, by slapping the parish border
stones with green boughs. Sometimes the
accompanying infants were thrashed or
bumped against the stones to make them
remember more vividly. There is no earthly
reason why modern Coburg should waste
time in this sort of unnecessary low comedy,
which originated in the days when maps
were scarce and ignorant people huddled to-
gether in small communities. Nowadays
nobody but the alderman cares where Cab-
bagetown ends and Stodgewood begins; the
one idea of intelligent people is to wipe out
both Cabbagetown and Stodgetown and for-
get the frontier lamp-post and all the foolish
bitterness that centred round it.
* * * *
“F.C.” : In the Melbourne Criminal Court
the other day a 14-year-old girl prosecuted
a young man for assault. In charging the
jury Justice Hood summed up the case con-
cisely
This kind of charge could easily be brought by a
wicked girl against an innocent man. In this case
it had been found that the girl had previously
brought a false charge against accused’s brother, and
had manufactured evidence against him because of a
quarrel.
After which the jury acquitted the youth;
and that was all the satisfaction he got or
ever will get. How grossly unfair it seems!
He was put to the annoyance and expense
of a Supreme Court trial; his name was
given a highly undesirable advertisement;
he lost a goodly sum in wages, and possibly
his job. The public generally is also out
of pocket through the. maintenance of other-
wise unnecessary policemen, warders, etc.,
and by having to pay jury fees and other
incidentals. The damsel herself was appar-
ently the only person who got any joy out
of the business—that is to say, a trifle of
limelight and the satisfaction perhaps of
“getting even” with a man with whom she
was annoyed. There are still four more
years to run before she ceases to come
under the age of protection fixed by McLach-
lan, M.L.A., and there are a number
of young men with whom she must neces-
sarily come into contact, so she has a really
gaudy time in front of her —provided the
Law continues to regard her as sympatheti-
cally as hitherto. She has now a cer-
tain amount of experience to guide her, and
next time a male acquaintance displeases
her she can lay against him a charge so
circumstantial and detailed that no jury
will be likely to disbelieve it. And with
that initial success there will at once open
before Iwr a large and lurid career —with
the Law always aiding and abetting her.
MAKING ACQUAINTANCE.
A: “This is Mr. Canto , Mr. Smith. Mr. Canto is a poet."
SMITH : “A what ?”
A: “A poet.”
SMITH : “Ah, well, it takes all sorts to make a world.”
An announcement in the daily press last
week was to the effect that the German
steamer Worms had arrived in Sydney with
a cargo of tombstones. What’s in a name,
indeed?
“Monica”: Why all this riot over the
Indian gentleman who was anxious to secure
an Australian girl as a combined wife and
typiste? I am a wayward damsel of 19 or
more, and by way of amusement I answered
half a dozen advertisements in a very re-
spectable morning paper wherein divers
sparks, all desirable young men accord-
ing to their own accounts, requested
ladies to communicate with them with a
view to “mat.” In every case my applica-
tion brought a reply. One gentleman was
brutally frank. He wrote : “You seem a bit
brighter than most of them who wrote. Need-
less to say I am not looking for marriage.
Meet me at the top of Lavender Bay steps
to-night at 8.15, carry your umbrella in your
left hand and a magazine or roll of music
in your right so I’ll know you. Will give
you a good time.” I went, but I carried
my umbrella in my right hand and looked
at myself carefully in the mirror before
starting out to make sure no magazine was
hanging about me. I arrived at the top of
the steps at 8.20, just after the boat had
gone. The path was deserted save for an
unhealthy-looking weed in a straw hat at
the end of a cigarette. He stared at me
inquiringly as I walked by with all the
hauteur I could muster, and seemed to be
trying to screw up his courage to speak. All
m TT other correspondents broke the ice
gently, some in the second letter, some
in the third. But none got past the
third before substituting the bait of a
“"nod time” for the lure of “mat.”
“Mat.” was off, if it was ever on. In the
three cases in which I continued the corre-
spondence the gentlemen set themselves to
corrupt my morals by pointing out the glori-
ous time I should have —the theatres, the
“pictures,” the rare suppers, the motor or
taxi rides, the chocolates, and in one case,
the dress account —provided I was the right
sort of girl. I wasn’t; so, alas, I’m still
struggling for a crust the same old way. To
me it is simply amazing that reputable;papers
should lend themselves to sucfi a shocking
business.
Nature arranged and wasted a Sherlock
Holmes mystery at Mintaro (S.A.). A
farmer was out with a loaded gun, when a
terrific hailstorm came on. He took shelter
inside a reaping machine, leaning the gun
beside it. Presently he as nearly as possible
had his head blown off, the charge passing
right through the, machine. Hailstones had
hammered down the trigger! But, suppos-
ing he had been just found dead, who would
have guessed that answer to the riddle?
SOMETHING LIKE.
TOWNIE: “ Well , now , dash it all! Isay,
don'cherno, these are the biggest Turks
caps I have RVAH seen!”
COCKY: “ Yairs. The soil ’ere's reefy too
powerful for the stuff we puts in. Why.
Mister, we've ackshally gotter plant the
dwarf variety to keep 'em down to this
size even."
WHICH?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A pantomime-promoter in Melbourne has said that
Svdney girls are more beautiful now than Melbourne
girls.
Over in Melbourne Cynthia sleeps
(Oh, the lashes and lids of Cynthia!),
With dreams of the game we played for keeps,
My lips on the lips of Cynthia !
For Cynthia’s arms were as chains of fire,
Slender chains of my life’s desire;
And her thin, sweet neck was a throbbing lyre
That sang of the heart of Cynthia!
She was slim of body and slow to kiss,
But her eyes shut closer at last for this,
And her being blazed into mine as flashes
The lightning-stroke when the tempest crashes —
And that was Cynthia!
Here in Sydney Sylvia wakes
(Oh, the splendid smile of Sylvia!),
And a wanton wandering sunbeam makes
Its home on the throat of Sylvia !
Lovely and laughing she bids me rest
My face where the summer has kissed her breast —
To love and to laugh are always best
On a starry night for Sylvia !
Where her heart is beating my own heart hears
The lyric love of a thousand years,
And the laughter dances under her lashes
Like a fountain of fire that flares and flashes—
And that is Sylvia!
These twain there are in the world to woo —
Sylvia, Cynthia, Sylvia!
And how shall I palter between the two —
Cynthia, Sylvia, Cynthia ?
For one a challenging smile will fling,
And one with a wordless kiss will cling;
But love is a good and a gladsome thing
With Sylvia or with Cynthia!
The pale white lids that flicker and close,
The half-shut eyes where the laughter flows —
Where the river falls or the breaker flashes
I follow them both till my bones are ashes,
Sylvia! Cynthia !
N.s.w.
PRIAM.


Wild’s Hairdressing Rooms, 30 Upstairs,
Sydney Arcade, George and King Streets, Sydney, is
the proper place to go if von want the best of atten-
tion. Electric head and face massage done in the
latest American style. Honrs of business: 8.30 to
6.30; Saturday close at 1 o'clock.*
WHETHER FOR
PYJAMAS or SHIRTS
nothing just
so comfy as
SilOStria
(Resrd.)
Flaooel
IT WILL NOT SHRINK.
1
/;»y
w
#
NW
•Si
w
v* •»
/-*
us4i
w
*I
SSJ
y/
jr/
*■'
»col*
1
i
New to Australia !
“ No-Veste M Taffeta. Suits.
These latest London productions introduce quite a new
note into men’s summer attire.
The Taffeta material is Wool —very light and cool—
and the suits are consequently comfortable for hot-day
wear.
The garments are beautifully finished.
Two shades—a light fawn and a very distinctive tone
of grey.
(OAT. — S.B. Lounge, open low collar, long vent back, 2 bot-
tom patch pockets, with button flaps, inside ticket pocket,
detachable buttons, double-stitched edgings, lined sleeves.
TROUSERS. Permanent turned-up bottoms and
side straps. Worn with either belt or braces.
The suit, ready to wear
Please state chest, waist and inside leg measurements. Patterns
and new Catalogue on request.
42/-
PEAPES 8 CO., LTD.
Men’s
Outfitters,
309 &, 311 George Street, Sydney.
Krupp’s record annual profit of
£1,800,000, announced by cable last week,
is the golden sequel of the gory story told
in part by Martin Donohoe, the Australian
war correspondent, who waded through the
worst of the Balkan horrors. The chances
are that Krupp’s will not be so gay next
year, and then there will be no distribution
of £150,000 Christmas Box money amongst
the Christian employees of the firm. Still,
the greediest gunmaker cannot expect to
have a European war every year, and that
being so, he cultivates ‘various side-
lines. Thus a Chilian editor, speaking in
America, says the trade does its best to stir
up the revolutionary fun that brings the
orders. This is progress. If the peppery
South Americans still argued cheaply witu
hoes and rocks, they would have to find their
own grievances. As it is, they get them
supplied free under the modern svstem.
which consists of manufacturing a want and
then filling it.
A mining dispute from out Cobar way
found a weak spot in the armor of N.S.W.
Full Court. Two prospectors had a dispute
about a mining lease, and, after the Mining
Warden’s decision, the loser appealed to the
District Court. Judge Docker outed him
some more, and he promptly gave notice of
appeal to the Supreme Court. But beyond
giving notice he did nothing, and in despair
the respondent filed the necessary papers
and the case came before the Full Court on
November 21. At the outset counsel for the
dormant appellant flatly refused to proceed,
on the ground that his client had not moved
the Court. On looking up the Law the
Bench found that only the appellant could
bring the case on, but that the Judges had
power to frame rules to provide for cases
where the alleged appellants didn’t appeal.
However, as that power had never been exer-
cised, there was nothing for the Court to do
but dismiss the case and hurriedly depart to
draw up the missing regulations.
* * * *
Judge Fitzhardinge, at Maitland
(N.S.W.) Quarter Sessions, fell heavily on
a dangerous youth who had sworn that
four young men had seized him while in a
railway carriage, bound and gagged him and
robbed him of his money. The four were
arrested and charged, but a few inquiries
proved the yarn to be a sickly invention,
and the inventor was clapped in for perjury.
In handing him a sentence of two years’
hard graft and three additional years’ sur-
veillance, the Judge read the prisoner a
homily on the enormity of the crime, and
trusted'that the sentence would deter others
from similarly offending. Also, it is to be
trusted that when his Honor and his Honor’s
fellow-judges are confronted with the eternal
female whose charge of dishonorable assault
(with elaborate details) against an innocent
man is proved to be a wicked fabrication, the
Bench’s indignation at Maitland will not be
overlooked.
A SUGGESTED PHGRIMAGE.
THE MELBOURNIAN: “They tell me yon are a
poetess, Miss Limp. Where may one see
your poems?"
MISS LIMP: “Well, really, I sometimes think
the epitaph on my poor puppy's tomb at
Brisbane the most beautiful thing I ever
wrote."
This bold, black-lettered advt. from the
Port Pirie paper shows how they do things
in S. Aus.: —
ADULTERATED MILK.
At the Magistrates’ Court, Port Pirie, on OCTO-
BER 13, 1913, ALLAN ROY LANE, of the Hundred
of Pirie, was FINED £lO and costs for SELLING
MILK 5 per cent, below the standard required by
the FOOD and DRUGS ACT.
PERCY ROBINSON,
Chief Inspector of Food and Drugs.
The straight official tip is given to the public
in this way after the third successful prose-
cution. And, of course, it is the right thing ;
the wrong thing is that no such brick hits
the more dangerous man who vends milk
from diseased cows. Milk adulterated with
water is mostly a swindle ; milk which is up
to the standard in fats, but is millions over
the odds in harmful bacteria, is mostly a
crime. Yet, while there is punishment for
the swindle, the crime, as a rule, slips
through the hands of the Law without a
stain on its character.
The National Council of Women has just
discovered some facts about the Domestic
Economy College, which was started in
Melbourne seven years ago. It gets a
Government subsidy of £4OO a year, and
hangs out in what was formerly a private
house in Lonsdale-street. The accommoda-
tion that was originally provided for 15
students is hardly adequate for the 130 now
attending. The kitchen, 37ft. by 14ft., is
made to accommodate 14 girls at a time;
an equally small scullery serves 22; a dimi-
nutive pantry has for ventilation one win-
dow adjoining a well-ventilated stable wall,
through the orifices of which flies and pes-
tilential odors enter and impart a flavor to
the food. The bedrooms, which are attics,
are stifling in summer. The Board of
Health has been appealed to, but avers that
it has no control over State or semi-State
institutions, and the Government has pro-
fessed itself filled with sympathy—and that
is all. It is the same with the College as
with most of Victoria’s other State educa-
tional establishments—the Government
either cannot or will not find sufficient
money to maintain them. Out of the half-
million which Victoria is borrowing to
maintain and extend primary schools, it
might spare a bit to provide adequate in-
struction for the State’s domestic economy
students. Or again, the impoverished State
might abandon its Governor, his house and
his costly entourage, and use the money so
saved for the useful purpose of paying for
the education of its youth. Yet nothing is
surer than that it won’t.
“The Oldest Inhabitant’s” send-off to a
beer-pump:—
,So the old Grantham Hotel, in William-street
(Melb.), is delicensed. If interesting memories
could keep a pub afloat the Grantham would never
have gone under. It was built about the year 1850
by John Thomas Smith, a man who has become as
historic as the house. A Sydney native, the son of
a cordwainer, “Jacky” was first a bank clerk in Syd-
ne.y; then an assistant in
the “Aboriginal College”
on the banks of the Yarra
(the site now of the
Botanic Gardens). Marry-
ing the daughter of a
wealthy innkeeper, Michael
Pender, he took a pub in
Flinders-lane, then built
the Queen’s Theatre, and
entered the City Council.
Between 1851 and 1864 he
was seven times Mayor of
Melbourne. In 1858 he
took to England the city’s
most respectful address to
the Queen on the marriage
of the Princess Royal, and
expected a knighthood ; but
it didn’t come. He was
in the first Victorian Par-
liament (1851), and every
other Parliament until his
death in 1878. By that
time he had become the
Father of the House.
The Grantham’s beer-
pump occupied the pre-
mises of the first Victorian
Treasury. The Colonial
Treasurer was at first a
non-political officer; the
Auditor-General was his
spokesman in the House.
F. A. Powlett was for years
the Treasurer; H. C. E.
Childers the most distin-
guished Auditor-General.
In the same building was
the Chief Commissioner of
the Gold Fields, W. H.
AVright ; and hither the
first escort brought its
treasure. The legend is
that the Treasury clerks
rushed the front windows,
13 in number, and, seeing
the immense boxes of gold,
with six handles apiece,
tendered their resigna-
tmns with the intention of swagging it to the
diggings.
In Queen-street on the east side of the Grantham
John Thomas Smith built himself a mansion, where
persons could see the Mayor on public or private
business at any reasonable hour. There I inter-
viewed him one Sunday morning in 1858, and was
received, I remember, with fine courtesy. And I
remember, too, that my quest succeeded: I went
away armed with the authdrity of the chief magis-
trate to interview a man detained in Melbourne
gaol, much to the horror of “Old Rowley,” the
senior turnkey, who was a Sabbatarian of the most
pernicious character,
AFTER THE FIRE.
“ Veil, yer managed ter save yer life, anyvay."
“Yeth—every penny."
The lazy Australian has done it again.
A Victorian youth, named Lassick, living
in the mountains beyond Dargo, was lately
kicked in the abdomen by a horse. A bush
nurse rode out from Dargo, diagnosed the
injuries as serious, and ordered the patient’s
removal to Sale. A particularly active
chamois might clamber over the mountains
near about, but no vehicle could do it; so
Biljim gathered in force from far and near,
got an extra lazy spasm on, and carried the
crippled youngster in a stretcher for 12 miles
over the most perpendicular spots. Then a cart
was brought into action ; but the road was
still so up and down that the remaining 70
miles took several days. Then Biljim put
his youthful mate in the hospital, paid an
indolent visit to the pub, and lazied back
home.
Parties to divorce cases swear promiscu-
ously and at large, and the inevitable brick
was hurled at the habit in Melbourne last
week. The case was that of Hooks v.
Hooks, Williams co-re., and the evidence as
to misconduct was numerous and consider-
able ; wherefore Madden, C.J., granted a
decree, with costs against the tertium quid.
Naturally both he and the lady denied the
irregularities charged, and if they had
stopped at that doubtless nothing further
would have happened; but to make
their case really solid and conclusive,
they went elaborately into details and
denied the co.-re.’s presence at sundry
places on various specified occasions,
though a number .of reputable and
disinterested persons were available to
swear to the contrary. So his Honor there
and then committed the pair for trial for
perjury, besides inviting the Attorney-
General to consider the evidence of two
other witnesses. Custom has pretty well
decided that the lady and her gentleman
may lie up to a certain point, but it has been
obvious of late that the point would have
to be fixed somewhere. This particular
couple had the bad luck to strike Mr. Mad-
den when he was suffering from an extra
spasm of virtue, and wanted to pull the
point somewhere within cooeeing distance
of the horrible truth; so the best thing
they can do now is to hope for a couple of
sympathetic juries.
“Tom Noddy” : Offi-
cers of our Australian
army are inclined to
get as doggy as their
“haw-haw” brethren of
the Imperial Service.
Here is an instance.
For the review held in
Melbourne on the 15th
the State Comman-
dant had issued orders
that all ranks except
Headquarters Staff
were to wear Garibaldi
shirts. At this some of
the officers fumed —the
older ones that they
should have to put
their girth into such a
dress; the younger
ones that “there was
nothing by which they
could be identified
from the common Sol-
dier, Gad!” So they
decided to appeal to
the Minister ; and the
politician, as usual,
was very sympathetic.
He authorised a notice,
which was inserted in
the newspapers on the
morning of the review,
to the effect that offi-
cers might wear their
pretty jackets. The
result was that some
of the regiments re-
sembled Joseph’s coat,
with a young subaltern
in handsome tunic
and the colonel in
shirt-sleeves. An in-
teresting point crops
up here—who is boss
of the Military show?
If the State Comman-
dant, a soldier of ex-
perience, issued orders
in times of war, would
the Minister of De-
fence be permitted to
butt in with his
opinions? There is
something wrong, too,
with the way the lad-
officers are appointed
- —in Melbourne, at
any rate. When a
new junior is wanted
the present officers are
informed of the va-
cancy. They then nomi-
nate a friend, who
is appointed straight
away, and allowed to do any necessary exam-
inations later. Any young fellow in Mel-
bourne can get a commission if he has a
friend already an officer, enough money to
lead a pretty gay life, and a fair
education. Some other mode will have to be
followed if Australia is to obtain officers
who can think about something more than
their dress, and do something more than look
pretty.
Port Adelaide has waked up to the state
of its river. Since the Outer Harbor was
made at the river’s mouth, and ocean
steamers can simply tie up to a wharf there,
instead of lying three miles out in the open
roadstead of the Gulf, the inner harbor up-
river, where the town of Port Adelaide is,
has lost interest for the travelling public. Yet
it still does an increasing trade, and coasting
steamers steadily grow bigger, while the
river, deepened years ago to 23ft., steadily
silts up. The Port City Council sat on the
matter last week, and quoted cases where
vessels drawing as little as 20ft. had been
delayed. One alderman knew of Capital
fleeing from the port as a result; and that
of course settled it. An appeal to the S.A.
Marine Board was voted down, on the
ground that the Council had been fruitlessly
making such appeals for years past, and the
Commissioner of Public Works is to be asked
to do some vigorous dredging at once.
The master of the steamer Euroka, which
hit the Sydney Ferries’ boat Kurraba while
attempting to dodge past Circular Quay, was
last week thrown on the mercy of the Marine
Court by his lawyer; but the Court’s bosom
was hard that day, and the mariner lost the
use of his ticket for three months. His
barrister stated that it was his first trip
down the Harbor in the Euroka, ajid he did
not know she could travel so fast. ■ If there
is anything in that, the passenger on the
Harbor ferry will feel more uncomfortable
than ever when his boat does a sprint to
cross the bows of some ship, in order to
catch train or tram. The present narrow
margin between safety and smash seems to
depend wholly on the bridge people being
able to gauge exactly the speed of vessels
which may be more or less perfect strangers
to them.


£>ooK , w)2^ e *' rv
is really no Jj//
i. defence.) / ‘b
• HUNG UP"
PENDING
OF STEEL J.BULL
Promised US
•> - »
Wowser I
| for Def^ndAofv
\ye \
\ Victoria/.--GtrJionly,
/ tto j
Ur oki.k.
m <=zZ? f
SMALL
FACTORY^
V e
y
£ow wliicVi
osye (((^
rec.oird Y»eM 1 [ w
oHio lV 1 YVj
of ,n
ry-)o'ntns )
ridiculously <> , rue [orcvurdinß her e
•* *“ r..S“ »ss»
a b>e material for a« . __ Ne ws item
<c cKy\
I?mt y
°t /
/
A
The Invader’. — ub .
iTie " I SuJ>|»os€ I s^nce
v V'nns Ve ri6f~om\j small
i\. scvcc/'
MoTl-£,
Th\i H ZTR/\w&eßf
wot <;*we. i\oz
L EN& OF M»LK
in ii. Mu^ee.
Science entered into every field, but it
was left lamenting on the doormat of
the home. People realised carpets and
floors must be cleaned, but only their
eyes and noses gave the idea of cleanli-
ness. A glass might be polished and
look clean, and yet be reeking with the
germs of typhoid. —Melb Professor
Bonder C ov * .
2” 0 do : ’* Vof bosVteh
Kid ll i nr)Usl“
"tei- »vj»lK itT
Prof* or}
The Japanese are not a diffident nor
a self-distrustful people; yet as soon as
the Japanese foresaw the possibility of
having to measure themselves with more
experienced Powers in war, they ob-
tained the services of British officers.
)kT
fra^OY^
'jfou^e'hoM
( t'C
Svkboiw'trocnt' of
CHicJ- j J|l
/ Judged By V
lde >
i To Kee|? .
/A r >Prof.Bl*wke«s’.-'' exco 5 c me,’ WBrown.
I see ih&t' v Kiere is liftcf -fever eerm clinpinp'To ,
ob ° UK V3[V»*i. IVo “tn^
matter op She 15 ScieotTficbJly
Fjopele^."
He was told that the soundest sleepers
tvere those who' read the State “Han-
-Bard-- /
>tu /KyqiaK)'. Dor>t"you
N W' hay-e dtje msolente. 'fo'fell^
me wharfs oood enouob for
enough for you, you "
Sb swt,
( S*lf-
VINCENT’S PAGE.


ON THE MARKET.
His hearers would probably renumber what a to-do' was made about his being “on the market,” and identified with a policy of selling the Catholic vote to the highest
bidder. So far as he was personally conce [?]ed, he was on the mar ke t every time.—Father O'Reilly, of Bathurst, establishing a branch of the Catholic
“Going! Going! Are you all done?”


Martin’s Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. Ladies recommend
them. Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
IT’S LIKE PLAYING HAMLET and leaving out
the Prince of Denmark to buy Penduplicate Books
not supplied with “Zanetic” Pen-copying paper. If
security is valued, and permanency of copy desired,
it is VITAL to be sure you are supplied with
“Zanetic.” Copies that fade are useless. “Zanetic '
paper ensures permanency of copy, whilst the latter
is denser and more distinct than the original. Of all
Stationers, or from Makers, S. B. Zanetic, Welford-
road, Leicester, England. Sample sheet, 2d. post free.*
GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle;
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY.
HATS.
For
DURABILITY,
*
EVERY DAY
more people are proving that
K.YYX
is the best washing preparation for
blankets, flannels, woollens and dainty
fabrics. Lux is scientific in its methods.
Lux coaxes rather than forces the dirt
from the clothes. Lux shortens the
work at the washtub —lengthens the
life of the clothes.
</)
ON’T
IRINK
WOOLLENS.
/
_v
I vim
V i
LEVER BROTHERS
LIMITED. SYDNEY
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Alfred William Castle, solicitor, of Taree
(N.S.W.), who died on the 17th inst., aged
72, was the father of the lower branch of the
profession in the Ma State. Mr. Henry
Deane, of the old firm of Deane and Deane,
is now the father; Ihe runners-up are Fred
Gannon (the one-time chamnion pigeon-
shot), G. de V. Pilcher (of Orange) and
about 10 others who date from the ’6o’s.
OVERSEAS—OR SEAS-OVER.
Concerning the visit of the British members of
Parliament to Australia, Mr. Hamar Greenwood com-
plained that the visitors had seen nothing of Aus-
tralian home life. They had been too much absorbed
in public entertainments. —English paper.
Australia , as seen by peregrinating British
politicians.
C. T. Harrisson, the Tasmanian recently
appointed biologist to the Commonwealth
trawler, ought to be the man for the billet.
Apart from his scientific knowledge he
is a good sailor-man, drives a graphic
pen, and, as he is a capable artist,
will be able to take down shorthand notes
of the squirming rainbows that are dredged
up from Davy Jones’ collection before the
colors fade out. Harrisson accompanied
Mawson to the South, as artist and bio-
logist, remaining with Wild at the second
base, and returning last March in the
Aurora. They had some notable puffs of
wind down there, one of which blew him
over Wild’s head—and he isn’t the sort of
man to be blown about easily.
Mr. Storekeeper, Mr. Miller, Mr. Seedsman, are
you aware that Smith’s Ltd. are making calico and
hessian bags suitable for your requirements? Smiths
print these bags in any number of colors; they are
anxious to obtain your business; they can save you
money on your bag account; and are anxious to get
in touch with you. They will send you a sample
bag for purposes of comparison, duly printed, if
you so desire. If courteous service and utmost value
at bedrock prices appeal to you, then write to the
“Bag specialists,” T. Smith Ltd., Sussex Street,
Sydney.*
George Reid says he is seventeen stone
seven now —and was eighteen stone eight
some time back.
Premier Denham, of Bananaland, goes to
the Big Smoke by the Orsova to beguile
Cohen. England is his native place. The
State Premiers are now equally divided as
to their birthplaces between England and
Australia: Denham, Holman and Peake
claim the former; Watt, Solomon and Scad-
dan the latter. Denham, though only 54,
is the oldest of the bunch except Peake,
with whom he ties. Watt and Solomon
alone have reached the Premiership in their
native State. Scaddan, of Westralia, was
born in South Aus.
A Parramatta native of some note died
at Neutral Bay (Svdney) recently. This
was Miss Maria S. Taylor, who was in her
81st year. She was a daughter of Hugh
Taylor, who at the time of her birth was
district agent for the Sydney Herald
(now S. M. Herald). She was sister of
Ilughie Taylor, many years member of the
Legislative Assembly for Parramatta, and a
stanch friend of Henry Parkes.
The mercantile world of Sydney has lost
an old identity in Harby P. Dixon, who for
just 40 years was associated with Alcock
Brothers, of York-street. He joined on the
lowest rung and clambered up to the top.
Alcock Brothers established themselves in
1868 in a room or two over John Wetherill’s
drapery in Pitt-street. In 1892 they
moved into York-street, and later built fine
premises on the corner of Barrack-street.
Mr. Hardy was general manager at the time
of his death.
The death of George Davies, of Hobart
Mercury, recalls the yarn that the de-
ceased’s father, “Old Jack” Davies, won
the Mercury in a game of draw-poker. It
was then worth about £25. To-day it is
probably worth £25.000 of any speculator’s
good red gold. “Old Jack” was a pretty
strenuous person; Hobart Town Punch of
his period generally caricatured him as
Bombastes Furioso. The lampoonists cairn 1
off second best, and one of them is alleged
to have contracted a fatal illness as the
result of an argument with “Old Jack.” in
which the weapons were not pens and ink.
Though most of his life was spent in early
Van Diemen’s Land, the founder of the
Hobart Davieses is said to have originally
hailed from London, via N. S. Wales, and
to have left a somewhat famous brother,
who does not appear to have founded a
family capable of collecting Speakerships,
K.C.M.G.’s and pelf. It would have been
better if he had stuck to brother John, and
got in early in Hobart Town.
Martin Donohoe. London Daily
Chronicle’s war and special writer, can’t
make much of a speech, but he can say the
little things that count. Thus, at the Aus-
tralian Journalists’ Club the other evening
he got the big cheer when modestly replying
to the high praise that had been passed
upon his eventful work, by laying much of
the credit to his early journalistic training
in Australia. “I can never forget that,” he
said, and the crowd made it clear that they
would never forget it either. “I commenced
my journalistic and horse-stealing career in
Sydney,” he went on, “and, at any rate,
I’m a qualified horse-stealer. I began in a
small way. I stole one horse at Hurstville
when I was in a hurry on a job for the
Evening News ; but in South Africa during
the war I stole a number of horses. And I
wouldn’t like to tell you how many I stole
during the Balkans war.” Donohoe looks
after the Paris end of things for the
Chronicle when he isn’t horse-stealing.
James Roberts, formerly superintendent of
N. S. Wales Tramways, who died last week,
aged 72 years, was son of Joseph Roberts,
of Albina Park, Burwood. His mother on
her widowhood married the late John Lackey,
President of the Legislative Council. She
was daughter of William Hutchinson, a very
old colonist, known as “the Convicts’
Banker,” from the fact that as superinten-
dent of convicts he took charge of such
money as newly-arrived prisoners were pos-
sessed of. The family included R. H. Rob-
erts, M.L.C., of Bowral. The S.E. corner of
King and George streets, including the Ar-
cade, is still in the Hutchinson family ; the
original Hutchinson, who had graduated
from Norfolk Island to an overseership in
Sydney, had his private home there at one
time. He was one of the very early directors
of the Bank of N. S. Wales, and his name
is writ large in the ledgers of that institu-
tion.
One of Maoriland’s most earnest and use-
ful politicians was lost when George Lauren-
son, M.H.R., died last week. As a lad he
sailed into Maoriland waters from Edin-
burgh 37 years ago, and started to collect
a livelihood as assistant to a ship’s chandler.
He ended up as partner in the firm. Four-
teen years ago he was first elected to Par-
liament, representing Lyttelton, and since
then there has been no rally round the flag
of Democracy that didn’t include him and
call forth his incisive debating powers and
strong moral influence. He was Minister
for Labor in the mysterious McKenzie
Government, which lasted for five minutes,
or thereabouts, and it’s a pity he couldn’t
have kept the job. He was just the man
for it: but, of course, the lunatic asylum
that invented the party system didn’t con-
sider mere trifles of that kind.
The fortune of John Duncan, late M.L.C.
of South Aus., has been sworn at the com-
fortable figure (for that State only) of
£350,000, with extras, in the shape of sta-
tion property, in others. It has been well
looked after, but it was mostly inherited from
a childless uncle, Walter Watson Hughes.
It was the youthful Duncan who did a
long gallop to Hughes long ago with news
of the discovery of the great copper mines
that are now Moonta and Wallaroo.
FRITZ HART ,
music - Professor
Marshall Halls
locum leneus.
Died in Adelaide (1) Jonah Hobbs, 77,
one of the big suburban gardeners who have
kept the city’s fruit and vegetable trade en-
tirely “white”; (2) Charles Gwynne, 29,
electrical engineer, and grandson of the
judge, but most widely known as a brilliant
footballer; (3) William Hayes, 80-odd,
owner of thousands of square miles of
Australia far back from Oodnadatta, a
typical “Dad” of the Steele Rudd type,
hardworking, outspoken and absolutely
straight, and probably the best-known man
around the heart of this continent.
Thomas Fitzpatrick, who did 10 years’
bullocking in the N.S.W. Assembly, passed
out at Junee lately almost without remark.
Early in his Parliamentary career Tom rose
to explain the way the western country was
being trundled into the hands of big cos. by
Reid, Carruthers and Sydney Smith. The
Ganmain reserve, near the Murrumbidgee.
served as an object-lesson, and Tom proved
that 50 or 60 Sydney unemployed had been
put on to thin the pine scrub on 45,000
acres of the land leased to an Anglo-Aus-
tralian investment co. Ashton, now
M.L.C., then a Radical with a small ward-
robe, backed up Fitz.; so did Waddell,
McElhone, Chanter and others, and for a
while it looked as if the business of the
House would be taken out of the hands of
the Government. Fitz. rested after that,
but now and then spurted on to fresh ground,
and gained the name of being “dangerous.”
By nature, however, he was mild, and the
mildness increased as he grew wealthy, and
settled down to live his last years as a back-
blocks “squire.” He quitted Parliament in
1904 and died at 78.
George William Evans, whose work is
recalled by the Bathurst Centenary celebra-
tions, was born at Warwick (Eng.), in
1778. On leaving school he studied art; but,
not taking kindly to a studious life, he and
a couple of friends projected an expedition
to the Cape of Good Hope, and went there.
At Capetown he entered the office of a civil
engineer named Melville, where he gained a
practical knowledge of land surveying, at
the same time keeping up his studies in
drawing. In 1803 he, with his wife (a
daughter of Mr. Melville) and family, came
to N. S. Wales, and lived for some time in
the Hawkesbury district. In August, 1803.
Surveyor-General Grimes having obtained
leave ,of absence, Evans was appointed to
act. At that time he was cultivating a farm
on the Hawkesbury. Later on he was ap-
pointed by Macquarie assistant to James
Meehan, Chief Surveyor, at a salary of £9l
ss. This was his position when the Gov-
ernor sent him on the expedition which gave
us Bathurst Plains and the Macquarie and
Lachlan. Under Oxley, Evans did most of
the work for which the former gets the
credit. Mrs. Turpin, his youngest daughter
by a second wife, was present at the
Bathurst Centenary.
Francis William Darby, who died recently
at Coolanbilla, Quirindi (N.S.W ) !
the age of 76 years, was ’ son J!
George L. Darby, a lieutenant in the 45 t h
Regiment, who came to Australia in 1839
and was one of the A.A. Co.’s early su ’
veyors. The recently deceased followed his
father’s profession, but later on took th
management of Cattle Creek station, which
he held for 20 years, and then went with hi*
family to reside on his own prooertv fl t
after’llie .SKSEE?’ £8
“Jeames” on a departed genius:
Mathilde Marchesi, who died last week aged a K„, *
90, was a German, born, allegedly, in lrank+7
though many suspected Whitechapel of the S’
Anyhow, her English was as completely devoid £
foreign accent as though she had been reared i
London. Her French and Italian were almost m,,,! ,
perfect. Melba made her. That is to say Mel ll
brought her most of her American, English ami
Australian pupils, who were the best paying ones she
had. She was not at any time a rich woman 1
latter years, partly because she became a ost stone
deaf, partly because her temper had g.own verv
frayed at the edges, business fell off, and she was
a comparatively poor woman. The expenses of her
household were necessarily big, and she had a cer
tain state to keep up, which cut heavily into her
income. For years Melba is understood to have paid
for the carriage in which she aired herself in the
Bois most afternoons. She took a malign delight in
annoying her pupils. To one who was absurdly fat
she would say, “How divine your waist is this
morning!’’ To another: “Why do you never wash
your hair?’’ This sort of badinage helped to keep
relations pleasant all round. She had six daughters
by her stone-broke Italian husband. They all died
but one —Blanche Marchesi, who sings and teaches
in London. The old lady had each of them photo-
graphed after death, and to pupils of whom she
particularly approved was granted the privilege of
going upstairs and viewing the counterfeit present-
ments of the corpses. It was one of those things
which reconciled people to being disliked bv the
old lady.
From an embittered archivist:—
Bathurst (N.S.W.), which is having a centenary,
is considerably mixed about its forefathers. I don’t
complain that ticket-of-leave men take a prominent
place in the published list of founders: they (with
some assistance) could found a citv as well as anv-
body. Still, there were others. The first two men
with any sort of a “pull” to go to Bathurst were
Hawkins, who was appointed superintendent o*
prisoners, and Johnson, manager of the Agricultural
Farm. George Cox took up Hereford in the very
earlv days. Then camp George Ranken, the son of
a Scotch landed proprietor, who had arrived with
an order for a grant of land from the English
Government in 1821. When Ranken was going out
into the “new country,” as Bathurst was then called,
to look for land to satisfy his order, the well-known
Captain Piper and Mr. Icely requested him to select
territory for them, which he did. Afterwards came
Lawson, Street and Mackenzie. Ranken was the
first to put up a flourmill, first using water power
and afterwards steam ; also, after a visit to Germany
in 1841, he introduced a vine-dresser, and was the
original wine-maker in the Western District. Yet
somehow Ranken has dropped out of the list of
pioneers, though he is remembered by a local hil-
lock and a street, both of them so named by
Thomas Mitchell, the Surveyor-General.
JOSIAH THOMAS , lately Fed. Minister
of External Affairs , who moves that Speaker
Johnson doesn't possess the confidence of the
House.
STINT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A witness before the N.S W. Commission which is
inquiring into the cost of living testified that he
knew of men stinting themselves to the extent of
taking a crust of dry bread for dinner.
Justice Heydon: “If you want to succeed, you must
stint yourself. I know in my young days I had to
stint myself.”
When young, his Honor, you must know,
Oft curbed the longings that he felt.
To college p’raps he did not go
With two cold spuds beneath his belt,
Yet stinted he himself of wine,
And clubs and spanking horses, too;
At humble restaurants he wohld dine
For three-and-six; and drew the line
At keeping up a little flat,
And things like that.
Thus if they’ll but economise,
The poor may rise.
Come scan the world, and wonder at
The fine, big fellows whom success
Has swathed in noble rolls of fat,
And try to live on less and less.
Nay, nay! Be not a sceptic who
Would teach your discontented brother
To take the Socialistic view,
And bite off all that he can chew',
Because the poor who stint themselves
Fill rich men’s shelves,
And Fat his bones with tissue smothers
By stinting others.
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


Summertime “Austral”
Ready-to-Wear.
SUMMERTIME “particularly” lends
itself to the Ready-to-Wear in clothing,
the necessity for closeness in fit being
largely abrogated. More especially is this the
case with our ‘'Austral ” Ready-to-Wear Suits,
which are cut in the latest fashion and style,
while the finish and material, of course, maintain
the “Austral” Standard. There is certainly a
difference to the order garments, but this differ-
ence is in the price. Anyhow, if you are not
satisfied we exchange the garments or you get
your money back in full. On receipt of a post-
card we will forward a general catalogue of
Everything for Men’s and Boys’ Wear, and we
pay carriage on all orders throughout Australia.
To ensure satisfaction, it is only necessary to send
height, weight, inside leg measurement and
measure around chest and waist.
K>
-v
£%
c:iV
M
2S&S&
m
m
x
>p
r.v
=gg- 4.'
*
*\«
IB? ■ iT|; 4 - '^
2s!
1>
Two=Piece Sporting Suits (English Make).
No. 1. The newest style in lounge suits. Coat with yoke shoulders and belted back, 2 Patch Breast and Skirt Pockets. Trousers, side and hip pockets, and
bottoms with permanent turn-up. Summer-weight Tweeds in all the latest shades. Prices: 35/-, 42/-, 45/-, 50/-, 55/-
Two-Piece Flannel Suits.
No. 2. Made in Plain and Stripe, Light, Medium, and Dark Flannels; also fancy mixtures, in Fawn, Green, and Grey shades. Perfect fitting, in all sizes.
Coats unlined and made with long or medium roll collar, patch pockets. Trousers, side and hip pockets, and permanent turn-up or plain bottoms.
Prices: 25/-. 30/-. 35/-. 40/-, 45/-, 50/-, 55/-
Two=Piece Washing Suits.
Made in Oatmeal Crash, Mercerised Repp, Plain and Stripe Holland, Plain and Stripe Tussorette; Latest Styles. Coat with seam and vent, or plain backs, 3
patch pockets, detachable buttons. Trousers smartly cut, side pockets, loops for belt. Oatmeal Crash, 12/6 and 16/6; Plain Mercerised, 16/6; Stripe Holland,
18/6, 19/6; Plain and Stripe Tussorette, 22/6, 25/-
Also Plain and Stripe Taffeta Mohair, in fashionable Brown shades, 35/-, 40/-. Plain Tussore Silk, 45/-
/ Sac Suits.
No. 3. Tweed Sac Suits, in all the latest styles and newest colorings. A splendid assortment of patterns, in Marrickville and English Tweeds, and Fancy
Worsteds. Prices: 35/-, 40/-, 45/-, 50/-, 55/-, 60/-, 65/-
Serge Sac Suits, in pure Indigo fine serge, guaranteed fast color and hard wearing; latest styles. Prices: 40/-, 45/-, 50/-, 55/-, 60/-
Also special line in fine Blue Serge Sac Suits, smartly cut, 35/-
Men’s Ready=to=Wear Trousers.
White Duck or Drill TROUSERS 4/11, 6/6, 7/6
Special Quality Duck or Drill TROUSERS 8/6, 9/6
Crash TROUSERS, Light and Dark Shades of Brown 5/6, 6/6, 7/6
Fancy Striped Crash or Drill TROUSERS 7/6, 9/6
Mercerised Tussore TROUSERS, in Grey Fawn and Brown Shades, made with
Plain or Gauntlet Bottoms and Belt Loops 8/6, 10/6, 14/b
Cream Flannelette TROUSERS, Plain or Gauntlet Bottoms, and Belt Loops 7/6
“ Austral ” Summer Coats.
Cream Flannel TROUSERS, made with Loops for Belt, Plain and Gauntlet
Cream Serge TROUSERS, Plain Bottoms, Hip Straps, and Loops for Belt 10/6
Cream Serge TROUSERS, Plain or Gauntlet Bottoms, Hip Straps Loops for
Be l t ° 13/6, 15/6
A SPECIAL TROUSERS FOR THE BUSINESS MAN.
Plain and Fancy Stripes, Worsted, Light and Dark Shades. A Splendid
Wearer
White Drill Step or Patrol Collars •• • 4/11 ’ 6/6, 7/6, 9/6
Black or Stripe Alpacas, Smartly Cut, Vent Backs,sizes, 17/6 18/6
Blazer COATS, large variety 6/11, 10 / 6 ’ ia/6 ’ 13/6, 17/6
Motor Dust COATS, in Crash, Holland, Drill, /e
Motor-Cycle Dust COATS and Overall TROUSERS 17/0
BATH GOWNS, Good Variety 16/6, 17/C, 21/-, 27/G
Men’s Fancy Washing Vests.
A Splendid Assortment of Up-to-date Styles and Patterns
4/11
Fancy Washing VESTS, in Drill, Flannel and Cashmere. . 6/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6
“It's Good if it's Gowings
GOWING BROS.,
“PIONEER DISTRIBUTORS OF AUSTRALIAN GOODS,"
484, 486, 488 & 490 George Street; &3,5,7, 9, 11,13, 15 &17 Royal Arcade, SYDNEY


TO STOREKEEPERS
Why Carry Large Stocks of Single Cylinder Double Acting Power Pumps, when we can deliver
one or one dozen as you order from our stock? . ..
Write to use for prices on the DEANE Model A., Single Cylinder Double Acting Power Pumps,
with Brass-lined Cylinders.
AGENTS in every State. If not in stock in your State, apply to—
SIMPSON BROTHERS, 32-34 Clarence Street, Sydney.
COUNTRY AGENTS REQUIRED.
If
SISKOL” ROCKDRILLS.
"SISKOL” HAMMERDRILLS.
“SISROL" COALCUTTERS.
International Channelling Machines Ltd.
DiERCKS & CO. PROP. LTD.,
465 Collins St., Melbourne.
55 York St., Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Western Australian Bank :
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Mar., 1906.. 20,556 20 pc.= 12,500 8,056 379,508
Sept., 1906.. 24,059 20 „ „ 15,000 9,059 388,567
Mar., 1907.. 24,758 20 ~ „ 15,000 9,758 398,325
Sept., 1907.. 27,993 20 „ „ 15,000 12,993 411,318
Premiums on 2500 new shares. . 31,560 442,878
Mar., 1908.. 23,568 20 p.c.= 17,006 6,562 449,440
Premiums on new shares .. 11,372 460,812
Sept., 1908.. 21,457 20 p.c.= 17,500 3,957 464,769
Mar., 1909.. 25,238 20 „ „ 17,500 7,738 472,507
Sept., 1909.. 27,429 20 „ „ 17,500 9,929 482,436
Premiums on new shares . . 27,024 509.460
Mar., 1910.. 27,945 20 p.c.= 19,189 8,756 518,216
Premiums on new shares .. 12,976 531,192
Sept., 1910.. 27,206 20 p.c.= 20,000 7,206 538,398
Mar., 1911.. 29,006 20 „ „ 20,000 9.066 547,464
Premiums on new shares . . 71,820 619,284
Sept., 1911.. 28,110 20 p.c.= 23,939 4,171 623,455
Premiums on new shares .. 18,180 641,635
Mar., 1912.. 35,349 20 p.c.= 25.000 10,349 651 984
•Sept., 1912.. 36,488 20 ~ „ 25.000 11,488 663.472
Mar., 1913.. 37,404 20 „ „ 25,000 12.404 675.876
Sept., 1913.. 33,652 20 „ „ 25,000 8,652 684,528
In the days when the remote settlement along the
Western Coast had little truck with the rest of Aus-
tralia, this bank had the influence of the “best
ifamilies’’ behind it, and most of what business was
going went, its way without being either pushed or
nulled. Consequently when the goldfields began to
boom it was already enjoying a big dividend, and, in
comparison with capital, had very solid reserves. At
the end of 1893, when most other Australian banks
were feeling very sick, this one was paying p.c. ;
its capital at that time was £BO,OOO, and its reserves
£117,461. As new business came in fast the big
dividend and the reserves entitled the co. to ask for
substantial premiums on new capital ; and the prac-
tice of asking for such premiums has been followed
ever since. Of the last lots offered to existing
iholders, from £25 to £3O has been got for the £lO
shares ; and as the present capital is £250.000, it
follows that on the bulk of it the 20 p.c. dividend
really amounts to only about 8 p.c. The nolicy,
though it hasn’t made the individual shareholders as
fat as they might otherwise have been, has given
great strength to the bank, whose reserved funds are
now more than 24 times greater than the capital.
Lumping capital and reserves together there is a
total of £934.528; and as there are 25,000 shares,
it follows that the funds are equal to just on £37
per share. Whether shares are worth that much
(apart from the interest yield) depends, however,
on the character of the assets and the extent of the
inner reserves or contingency funds; and on this
point there is no information. Published accounts
only show the book values of the assets: whether the
’’book values are the true values is another matter
altogether. All that is certain is that, while Wes-
tralia is a country where banking profits have been
easily made, it is also a country where large sums
.may have to be written off on account of the slump
in the value of goldfields securities. The old way of
working a goldfield—the way in which Bendigo and
Ballarat have been worked —isn’t the new way. It
took about 50 years to belt down to 3000 ft. at Ben-
digo ; the Westralian idea is to go down that far in
as many months if possible. “A short life and a
merry one’’ is the motto of the modern mineowner so
far, anyhow, as his mine and the town dependent
•on it are concerned. His plan is to rush out the
sold, so that it may earn interest for him That
means boom values—and, before long, deserted nubs
jand (if they haven’t been careful) grieving bank
managers.
The next comparison shows the changes in the
bank’s figures in 12 months:—
Liabilities.
Sept.,’l2. Sept.,’l3.
Notes in circulation £16.987 £13,858 Dec. £3.129
Rills, etc 246.207 174,544 Dec. 71,663
Free deposits .. 1,373,795 1,240,999 Dec. 132,796
Deposits at interest 1.284,157 1,215,509 Dec. 68,648
Assets.
Liquid assets .. 1,030,776 1,109,931 Inc. 79,155
Advances.. .. 2,748,481 2,416,477 Dec. 332,004
Premises .. . . 79,000 78,030 Dec. 970
/The free deposits, though they have shrunk a good
deal, are still large, exceeding the total of the
illiquid assets. Hence, though the bank holds in liquid
(assets what looks like a very solid 42 p.c. of all its
liabilities, the position is not as strong as the latter
/figure would suggest. However, the depositor has
no apparent cause to worry. The public’s money in
the business amounts to less than £3 for every £1
of the shareholders’ funds, and that is an unusually
small percentage ; and the smaller the percentage the
.better, of course, for the depositor. No doubt this
comparatively small amount of outside money at risk
accounts, more or less, for the fact that the profits
for the half-year were at the rate of only £7 ss. sd.
p.c. p.a. on the shareholders’ funds (capital and
reserves combined) ; at the same time, the figure also
suggests that the bank’s position isn’t any stronger
than it looks. The assets may all be worth 20s. in
the £, and the reserves' may, therefore, all be real;
but with interest earnings of no more than £7 ss. sd.
pc. one wouldn’t, at any rate, suspect that there
was much in the way of internal reserves or under-
valued assets.
The Agricultural Bank of Queens-
land :
Profit Net Profit
Before Available
Paying Interest Paid for
■lune, Interest. to State. Reserves. Deficit.
; . 1903 .. £289 3 p.c. = £47 £336
1904 .. 501 3 „ „ 417 £B4 252
1905 . . 826 3 „ „ 773 53 199
Reserves.
1906 . . 2,476 3 „ ~ 2,031 445 246
1907 .. 4,212 3 „ ~ 3.161 1051 1,297
1908 . . 4,771 3 „ „ 3,445 1326 2,623
1909 . . 5,257 3 ~ „ 3,851 1406 4.029
1910 . . 6,253 3 „ ~ 4,278 1975 6,004
1911 . . 7,694 3 „ „ 5,147 2547 8,551
' 1912 .. 10,236 3 „ „ 6,918 3318 11,869
1913 .. 16,305 4 „ ~12,950 3355 15,224
And this lot will come in just as well here as any-
| where: —
Advances
Advances Repaid Expenses
Out- during Working p.c. of
standing. Year. Expenses. Advances.
1903 .. £6,253 £557 £8 18 2
1904 .. 20,370 £650 550 2 14 0
1905 . . 38,417 311 687 1 15 9
1906 .. 94,268 3,229 1043 1 2 0
1907 . . 112,216 12,908 1243 1 2 2
1908 .. 119,344 16,716 1199 1 0 1
1909 . . 136,947 16,184 1388 I 0 3
1910 .. 163,641 21,551 1515 18 6
1911 . . 206,998 27.793 1814 17 6
1912 . . 305,653 24,804 2599 17 0
1913 .. 470,796 27,808 3744 14 11
So in two years the advances outstanding have a
good deal more than doubled. This rush is no doubt
due to (1) the Act of 1911, which cut off some of
the bank’s hobbles; (2) the establishment of agencies
and the appointment of more inspectors, whereby
some of the old and dreadful delays were avoided;
and (3) the higher rates charged for accommodation
by the private banks. The interest charged by this
bank is only 5 p.c. ; but it will have to go up a
little, inasmuch as the bank has now to pay the
Treasury 4 p.c. instead of the old 3 p.c. It is true
that 1 p.c. more than covers the exes. ; but there are
bad debts and other contingencies to be provided for.
The managing director is nervous about it himself.
“It is very doubtful,” he says, “if the bank will be
able to carry on successfully with a margin of only
1 p.c., more especially as we have to make advances
on such liberal terms. Should adverse seasons even-
tuate”—and the managing director can make his
mind uneasy on that point; sooner or later they will
eventuate —“the number of properties reverting to
the bank must be very considerable. It must be
borne in mind that since the bank commenced opera-
tions, fair to good seasons have prevailed.” Yet,
notwithstanding the fair to good seasons, 18 proper-
ties were thrown on the bank’s hands during the
year, and at the end of the term there were 20 on
hand. One trouble about a lot of the holdings on
which money has been advanced is that they are in
priekly-pear country, and when they are abandoned
trouble looks in very soon. At prtscnt the security
oan, as a rule, be passed on ; but it won't be so in
bad times. Then, in the absence of buyers, the whole
advance is likely to be a loss. Foxton, the managing
director, is therefore on unquestionable ground when
he suggests that the interest rate must go up in
order provide the bank with a much more solid
contingency fund than it has at present.
The Colonial Mutual Fire Insurance
Co. (Melbourne) :
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1901 ..£27,789 8 p.c. = £4,000 £ 23,789 £ 51.036
£12,500 Reserves transferred to Capital. . 38,536
1902 . . 25,059 8 p.c. = 5,000 20,059 58,595
£12,500 Reserves transferred to Capital. . 46,095
1903 . . 27,453 8 p.c. = 6,000 21,453 67,548
£25,000 Reserves transferred to Capital. . 42,548
1904 .. 36,579 8 p.c. = 8.000 28,579 71,127
1905 .. 26,069 12 „ „ 12,000 14,069 85 196
1906 .. 45,886 204 „ „ 20,500 25,386 110,582
1907 .. 31,572 204 „ „ 20.500 11,072 121.654
1908 .. 35.413 204 „ •„ 20,500 14 913 136.567
1909 . , 37,960 21 „ „ 21,000 16.960 153,527
1910 . 52 500 21 „ „ 21,000 31 500 185,027
£lOO,OOO Reserves transferred to Capital. . 85,027
1911 .. 49.022 12 p.c. = 24 001 25.021 110,048
1912 .. 42,123 12 „ „ 24,001 18.122 128.170
1913 .. 48.516 12 ~ „ 24.001 24 515 152,685
Capital is now £200,005, of which £ 125,000 has been
transferred from reserves during the past 10 years;
so the 12 p.c. dividend is a lot larger than it looks —
and it looks quite large enough. After being satisfied
with a fair thing down to 1904, the co. started
to make the pace, and the div. went up in a brief
series of jumps to 21 p.c. Certainly the co had got
into a much better position and was making larger
profits; but it would have been far better advised
to have kept its dividend at 15 p.c., in which case,
when the capital was doubled a couple of years ago
(the extra £lOO.OOO being got from reserves), the
shareholders would, no doubt, have been very well
satisfied with 10 p.c instead of 12 p.c. This much
is certain: the insurance co. which pays away its
profits in dividends can’t use the same money to
strengthen its reserves; and the man with a policy
to place looks for strong reserves nowadays. It
seems significant, anyway, that during the last couple
of years this co. hasn’t made very much progress in
the matter of premium income; and The Bulletin
puts it down partly to a gradual awakening to the
fact that the co. had been paying divs. of 21 p.c. or
more, and distributing among shareholders for
several years more than it had been laying by. This
shows the premium and other figures:—
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1895. . £61,683 £29,526 £24,433 47.9 p.c. 39.6 p.c.
1900.'. 95,254 49.101 32,113 51.5 „ 33.7
1905.. 134,748 60,632 54.911 45.0 „ 40.8 „
1909.. 162 386 67,700 66,012 41.7 „ 40.7 „
1910.. 176,949 66,079 69,661 37.3 „ 39.3 „
1911.. 193.994 77,035 78,220 39.8 „ 40 4
1912.. 200,694 88.193 81,460 43.9 „ 40.5 ,
1913.. 204.542 85 617 84,040 41.8 „ 41.1 „
The lay-by has certainly been very respectable during
the past three or four years ; but it will take some
time yet for the co. to rub out the blot and extin-
guish the feeling that its shareholders are a
too-greedy lot. If the reserves had been exceptionally
strong there wouldn't have been the same cause to
complain. But, mainly because of the rapid increase
of business, and therefore of risks, they were by no
means exceptionally strong. Even now, after the
large additions made lately, capital and reserves
combined are only 170 p.c. of the year’s premium
income; and though that is a bit above the English
standard, it is considerably below the average of
Australian insurance cos. The moral of it all is
that the dividend should be kept where it is, and
certainly not increased" for many years to come.
Under ordinary circumstances it might have been
increased with the growth of business and profits.
As it is, it jumped too high, and no increase should
therefore be either expected or authorised for some
years to come.
But if the reserves are not what they might be,
considering the size of the business, no exception can
be taken to their qualitv—apart from one item, per-
haps. .Of total assets of £389,642, including provi-
sion for unadjusted losses, £309.820 is in public
securities, deposits and cash. That is a fine lot.
The doubtful line is “Shares in other cos. (at cost).”
down for £34,405. This gives no indication at all
of their value. If the directors invest or speculate
in shares in other cos. and won’t specify what those
cos. are, as thev reasonably might, they should at
least indicate whether “at cost” is above or below
present market value. Despite the fact that so much
of the assets are liquid or gilt-edged, the averasre
interest return last .year was a very comfortable
4 p.c., or thereabouts, on the average amount avail-
able for investment. The total income from this
source was £14,631, which paid iust 60 p.c. of the
dividend. When, by the accumulation of profits avail-
able for investment, 80 pc. of the div. is paid out
of interest earnings, and only 20 p.c. out of the
underwriting profit. The Bulletin will give the co.
three cheers. At present, 40 p.c. of it being paid
out of underwriting profit, this paper gives it only
two cheers and a quarter.
The National Insurance Company of
New Zealand, Ltd. (Dunedin, Maoriland) :
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Sept., £ £ £ £
1901.. 24,600 124 p.c. = 12,255 12,345 141,159
Premiums on new shares . . 2,029 143,188
1902.. 32,436 124 p.c. = 12,500 19,936 163,124
1903.. 27,622 15 „ ~ 15,000 12,622 175,746
1904.. 38,414 15 „ ~15,000 23,414 199,160
1905.. 26,009 15 „ „ 15,000 £552 10,457 209.617
1906.. 43,626 15 „ ~15,000 28,626 238,243
1907.. 26,096 15 ~ ~15,000 11,096 249,339
1908.. 30,591 15 „ ~15,000 15,591 264,930
1909.. 33,666 15 „ ~15,000 3234 15,432 280,362
1910.. 40,036 17J „ ~ 17,500 22,536 302,898
1911.. 38,390 20 „ ~20,000 18.390 321,288
1912.. 43,412 25 ~ ~25,000 18,412 339.700
1913.. 52,209 25 „ ~25,000 27,209 366,909
First, for the sake of having an accurate record, let
a mis-statement of not much consequence made 12
months ago be set right. It was said then that the
paid capital was £lOO,OOO in 200,000 shares of
£lO each paid to 10s. As a matter of fact, there are
400,000 shares of £5 each, 200,000 of them issued
and paid up to 10s. That, of course, means a
liability of £4 10s. Also it means, so far as policy-
holders are concerned, a nice little £900,000 that
they are entitled to draw on (if all the shareholders
can stand the racket) in the highly improbable event
of the paid capital and the £366,909 of reserves being
insufficient to meet the losses. The reserves are,
however, so exceptionally strong that it is really not
necessary for shareholders to stay awake at nights
wondering how they will find the £900,000. The
estimation of fire and marine hazards is not an exact
science. The only thing one can do is to assume
that the average losses in the future will be about
the same as the average losses in the past. Now,
here are those losses, along with some other features:
- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1895. . £82,935 £49,052 £26,560 59.2 p.c. 32.0 p.c.
1900.. 102,264 54,991 99,950 53.8 „ 29.4 „
1905.. 107,648 58,996 36,402 54.8 „ 33.8 „
1909.. 119.146 60 201 42,645 50.5 „ 35.8 „
1910.. 126,602 60,682 44,157 47.8 „ 34.9 „
1911.. 135,138 67,656 47,586 50.0 „ 35.2 „
1912.. 141.308 63,081 49.888 44.6 „ 35.3 „
1913.. 151,454 66,345 53,168 43.7 „ 35.1 „
There are eight years in that table—years running
back to 1895 —and the mean of the loss rates is
50.5 p.c. of the premiums. The premiums last year
were £151,454. If the losses last year had been
an average, £76,000 in round figures would have
been called for; so, as the reserves amount to
4 366,909, they alone could meet a catastrophe in-
volving losses nearly five times greater than can
reasonably be expected in any year, going on past
records And then, of course, there is something
more than existing reserves to draw on ; there are
the current year’s premiums; and the current year s
premiums, after paying all exes., have always been
more than sufficient to meet the year's losses. From
all of which it will be rightly concluded that the
co.’s position is very strong, and the security for
the policy-holders exceedingly good. True, this is a
case in which the dividend is as much as 25 p.c. ;
but it has to be noted that the co. has resisted the
temptation to pay up shares out of accumulated pro-
fits, wherefore the capital is still a modest £ 100,000.
It is the reserves, and not the capital, that have
been built up—built up so splendidly that interest
and rents last year brought in £21,268, or 85 p.c.
of the dividend.
Certainly The Bulletin would be better pleased
if the interest return were less ; its one objection to
the policy of this co. is that far too much of the funds
is locked up in mortgages. There is £ 309,620 in-
vested in that way, and another £96,300 in a vague
item called “Debentures.” This paoer believes that
the two most desirable qualities of insurance-office in-
vestments are (1) Safety and (2) their eonverti-
bilitv into cash in circumstances of disaster. That
blocks mortgages and most debentures; for they are
almost certain to be the most difficult to convert
when there is the most need to convert them.
* * * *
Harrison, Jones and Devlin, Ltd.,
woolbrokers, etc. (Sydney) :
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Sept., £ £ £ £ £
1901.. 6,120 7 p.c.= 7,000 10,000 16,097
1902 11 192 7 ~ „ 7,000 2.500 1,692 17.789
1903.'. 9.014 7 „ „ 7,000 2.000 14 17,803
1904 8 815 7„ „ 7,000 2.000 17,648
1905.. 11.778 7 „ „ 7.000 4,778 22.426
1906.. 14.805 7 „ „ 7,000 5.000 2.805 25.231
1907.. 17,767 7 ~ ~ 7.000 5,000 5.767 30,998
1998.. 13 568 7 „ „ 7.000 3,000 3.568 34,566
1909.. 17,721 8 ~ ~ 8.000 — 1 9.721 44.287
1910.. 23.295 10 „ ~10.000 13.295 57.582
1911.. 20.074 10 „ ~10 000 10,074 67,656
1912.. 18 019 10 „ ~10 000 8,019 75.675
1913.. 18.559 10 „ ~10,000 8.559 84.234
When this co. was formed in 1882 it paid £40,000
for goodwill; and as its capital was only £lOO,OOO,
and as presently something like £lBO,OOO was put
into freehold premises at Circular Quay, it follows
that the co. faced the dull times after the boom
with a big swag of debt on its back. And the worst
of it was the co. wasn’t at all sure the premises at
Circular Quay were a bargain at the price; hence the
directors set'to work to write down the book-value
out of profit. In other respects, also, they pro-
ceeded to put their house in order; and the thing
has been done excellently, so far as one can see.
In the first place, the goodwill froth, which originally
represented £40.000 of capital, has been entirely re-
moved and replaced by substantial assets, paid for
out of profits; and, in the second place, nearly
£50,000 of other profits has been used to write
down the premises account. This, then, is the
position:—
Profits accumulated as above •• £84,234
Profits used to write off goodwill .. 40,000
Profits used to write down property.. 47,514
Total £171,748
That much profit has been made in excess of the divi-
dends. A great deal was written off other assets fno
doubt on account of unfortunate advances) ; but that
is one of the ordinary risks of the business, and the
same trouble is liable to hit the co. again.
In more detail this is how some of the matters
already alluded to stand: —
1900. 1910. 1912. 1913.
Debts due on
mortgage £78,000 £45,000 £45.000 £45 000
Other debts . . 115.605 104.052 102,978 126,328
Freeholds (cost) 179,514 179,514 190,626 190,626
Total written off
freeholds .. 26,014 47,514 47,514 47,514
Leaseholds .. - 10,486
Advances, etc. .. 173,082 170,634 186,541 207,964
Or put it this way:—
1900. 1913.
Advances and other assets
apart from premises.. £173,082 £207,964
Liabilities.. . . ■ • 193,605 171,328
Deficit £20,523 Surplus £36,636
This is an improvement of £57,159 in the posi-
tion since 1900 ; and meantime the co. has spent
approximately £21,500 in store and other premises,
besides providing for the old bad debts before alluded
to. Since those old bad debts have been got rid of
the progress has been faster still; for instance,
since the 10 p.c. . divs, started, four years ago,
£39,947 has been put to reserves; that is to say,
only £53 less than the 10 p.c div. has amounted to.
As for the future, who can tell? There is, as shown
above, £207,964 out in advances and such like, and
if Fortune is unkind to backblocks N. S. Wales there
may be big losses in that lot. At the time those big
losses are actually occurring revenue may also slump
badly through the same drought reducing wool and
other consignments. This is the risk.
* * * *
Henry Jones Co-operative, Ltd., an in-
ter-State concern which owns “shares and interests
in jam-manufacturing and fruit-preserving cos. and
timber mills” :
To Re-
Nov., Profit. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
1909 .. £3,418
Reserves.
1910 ..£44,764 7| p.c. = £37,500 £7,264 3,846
1911 .. 49,048 „ „ 37,500 11,548 15,394
Premiums on shares . . 91 15,485
1912 .. 49,645 7| p.c. = 39,375 10,270 25,755
1913 .. 55,071 ,7J „ „ 41,250 13,821 39,576
But this paper declines to commit itself to a state-
ment that the tangible assets are £39,576 in excess
of the capital and liabilities. Henry Jones Co-op.,
Ltd., isn’t an ordinary kind of co. As set out above,
it owns “shares and interests” in various concerns. It
doesn’t make jam; it only holds shares (sometimes
it owns all the shares) in the cos. which carry on
that business. When the co. was formed £400,000
was paid for the businesses taken over; tangible
assets were valued then at £308,672, which meant
that £91,328 was the price of the goodwill and
other intangible goods. Since then other businesses
have been purchased, but the directors haven’t dis-
closed the amounts paid for goodwill in such cases.
Neither is it known whether anything has been
written off goodwill in any case out of profits. Cer-
tainly nothing has been written off by this co. out
of its own profits; but it probably wouldn’t be done
that way. Henry Jones & Co., of Tasmania, for in-
stance, might make a profit of £30,000, and dis-
pose of it this way:-—To writing of goodwill.
£5000; to reserves and contingency funds, £5000;
dividend (payable to this Henry Jones Co-operative,
Ltd.), £20,000. All that this co. would show as
revenue would be the £20,000; the accounts wouldn’t
mention either the writing-off or the additional
profits put to reserve and really owned by this co.
Thus, though reserves are only £39,576, less * the
amount of capital represented by goodwill, the re-
serves of the subsidiary cos. may be considerable.
On the other hand, there may be none at all. The
deliberate intention in forming the co. was to secure
the advantages of co-operation among the previously-
competing cos. without laying the whole book open
to people who were still competitors. Hence, if the
position is not transparent, it is at least no more
opaque than it was intended to be. It is a case in
which the investor has to trust the management for
pretty well everything. And, as the biggest of the
businesses were established by men who have still
most to do with the management—and were estab-
lished in most cases, too, with very little capital to
begin with —it is at least certain that there are good
money-spinners at the head of affairs. Further, from
the fact that the dividend has been kept at 7i p.c.,
though there is enough profit left over this time to
put by £13,821, one can fairly judge that they are
a cautious lot. The most they will do for share-
holders in the way of a bonus is to now offer them
another 55,000 shares at par—one new share for
every 10. As shares have all along kept remarkably
steady at from 245. to 255. this, of course, is worth
something.
The money raised by this new issue will be in-
vested outside the Commonwealth, presumably in
S’Africa, where one of the snhsidiarv cos is at work,
with a factory at Paarl. The directors’ idea is that
there is “no room for expansion in the Common-
wealth, owing to the production having reached a
point in excess of the consumption,” but they are
satisfied that the outlook for business outside is good.
Probnblv the directors take —or, anvway, express—
too gloomy a view of the home business. It is quite
true that imported jams don’t amount now to
£lO,OOO a year; but the imported preserved fruit
still runs to about £70,000 a year, and the citrus
fruits and apples to another £60.000, and the
raisins to £35,000. Home consumption isn't every-
thing, though ; the farmer didn’t stop growing wheat
when the local mouths had been Oiled, and the Aus-
tralian fruitgrower won’t stop either. It would be
a poor look-out for Yanco, anyway, if there were no
possible market but the local one, good as we hope
that to be with a few more years of Protection.
The City of Brisbane Building So-
ciety :
Dividends and Carried to
Sept., Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves. Deficit.
1900 .. £123 5 p.c. = £lO3 £l5 £3
Reserves.
1901 .. 188 5 „ „ 167 21 18
1902 . . 206 5 „ „ . 199 7 25
1903 . . 275 5 „ ~ 255 20 45
1904 .. 200 5 ~ ~ 241 19 64
1905 . . 240 5 „ „ 242 62
1906 .. 242 5 „ ~ 239 3 65
1907 . . 290 5 „ „ 261 29 94
1908 . . 314 5 „ „ 296 18 112
1909 . . 360 5 „ „ 332 28 140
1910 . . 427 5 „ „ 404 23 163
1911 .. 476 5 „ „ 459 17 180
1912 .. 530 5 „ „ 510 20 200
1913 610 5 „ „ 537 73 273 '
This midget was formed in 1899, some time after
the boom smash; consequently it has the advantage
of having no past to live down, and of having no
unproductive allotments or other foreclosed proper-
ties on its hands. How long the profits will continue
to advance so rapidly depends to a large extent on
the sort of seasons Queensland has during the next
fev years. There has been an excellent run of late,
and that and the temporary prosperity created by
the State’s borrowing have pushed up property
values. It is when values come down that such a co.
as this is liable to strike trouble, unless advances
have been made with great care. However, it works
almost entirely on its own money; consequently,
while the profits cannot on that account be large,
risks are limited. Advances have moved in this
way:—l9o3, £6441; 1911, £10,229; 1912,
£11,439; 1913, £12,081. That and a few sundries
are the only assets the co. has; against that there
are £lO7l of liabilities, including an overdraft of
£ 1039.^
The Newcastle Building and Invest-
ment Co. (Newcastle, N.S.W.): —
Written Off
(including
Losses To
on Reali- Re- Re-
Aug., Profits. Dividends. sation). serves, serves.
1899.. £4911 4 p.c. = £3356 £390 £1156£53,368
1900.. 5322 5 „ „ 4195 2256 52,239
1901.. 5159 6 „ „ 5033 1900 50,465
1902.. 6084 6 „ „ 5033 424 627 51.092
1903.. 5736 6 „ „ 5033 226 477 51,569
1904.. 5765 6 „ „ 5033 209 523 52,092
1905.. 5250 6 „ „ 5033 90 127 52,219
1906.. 5539 6 „ „ 5033 266 240 52,459
1907.. 5453 6 „„ 5033 924 51,955
1908.. 5963 7 ~ ~ 5872 708 51,338
1909.. 6958 74 „ „ 6292 205 461 51,799
1910.. 6398 7 „ ~ 5872 433 93 51,892
1911.. 6437 7 „ „ 5872 671 51,786
1912.. 7278 74 ~ „ 6292 3096 49,676
1913.. 6368 74 ~ „ 6292 515 49,237
This used to be the Newcastle Permanent Investment
and Building Society ; but in 1896, when most build-
ing societies had their doubts as to whether life
really was worth living, it reconstructed, changed its
name, and wrote off a large slice of capital Instead
of writing down its property in hand to correspond
and reckoning anything realised in excess of that
figure as “profit on sales,” it preferred to transfer
the amount written off the capital to a “Contingency
Fund” and count any price obtained below the
original cost as loss, chipping the deficiency off the
new fund—which, by the way', is included among the
reserves in the table. There isn’t much to choose
between the two methods, except as regards appear-
ances. This particular way makes the figures look
much bigger, but that doesn’t affect the security or
the dividend, and they are the main things. As in
the case of most of these societies, things didn’t turn
out as badly as was expected, so the contingency
fund hasn’t been called on to any great extent. In
1900, properties on hand were £101,243 and the
fund £42,816. Since then, although the property
item has shrunk to £52,128 (a reduction of
£49,115), only £9668 has come off the fund. At
the same rate the remaining properties would be got
rid of at a loss of about £lO,OOO. That is, of
course, assuming that the properties still on hand are
as saleable as those got rid of, which is unlikely. This
table will give some idea of how things in general
are progressing:—
Liabilities.
1900. 1910. 1912. 1913.
Deposits .. .. £17,610 £30,170 £33,006 £43,873
Other debts.. .. 633 344 942 1,199
Assets.
Advances . . . . 29,302 51,119 63,445 75,757
Foreclosures.. .. 101,243 61,685 54,628 52,127
Other property .. 7,183 54,057 52,770 53,947
Liquid assets .. 18,739 2,369 26
The most noticeable movements, and those most
likely to interest shareholders, are in deposits and
advances. The latter have moved up £12.312
during the past year, and as no money to speak of


Ensure the Safety of
Your Estate
BY APPOINTING
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY, LTD.,
As Executor and Trustee under Your
Will,
Trustee of Your Marriage or other
Settlement,
Attorneys under Power or Agents.
Subscribed Capital, £1,000,000. Reserves, £62,000.
Perpetual Deposit with Government, £20,000.
LOW CHARGES. UNDOUBTED SECURITY.
Write or call for Booklet, giving full information.
2, 4 and 6 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
A. J. MACKENZIE, Manager.
DO YOU REQUIRE POWER?
IF SO,
Kynoch Cas Engines & Producer Plants
WILL GIVE YOU
HICHEST Efficiency with LOWEST Costs.
M4RK
90 William St.. Mel-
bourne ; 277 Clarence
St., Sydney. And at
Adelaide, S.A., and
Perth, VV.A.
A great mistake, when erecting new works or re-
arranging old ones, is often nude in constructing the
building and installing machinery ere looking round
for means of transport of the raw material, half-
manufactured and finished goods. Messrs. Adolf
Bleichert and Co., of London, have issued various
catalogues and leaflets, illustrating and describing a
few of the many transport systems and plants which
they have supplied, and which show the solution of
the transport question and the advantages of em-
ploying such appliances. W. and J. Lempriere,
Melbourne and Sydney, are the Australian representa-
tives, and would be pleased to hear from those in-
terested. A specially trained engineer is retained to
consult and advise.*
* * * *
Mine managers and engineers contemplating Re-
inforced concrete construction should write for ( >ar
ticulars of the Indented Steel Bar, which gives the
greatest bond, and is the strongest and cheapest re-
inforcement on the market. Used by the N. S.
Wales and Queensland railways for bridges, by the
Sydney Water and Sewerage Board for elevated re-
servoirs, by the N. S. Wales Government Architect,
and by all the leading architects. Should guaranteed
designs be required for concrete structures, our ex-
pert will be pleased to furnish plans and descrip-
tions. Apply, Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.*
Efficient grinding is one of the many problems
that mine managers have to solve. The Hardinge
Conical Mills have proved to the Calumet and liecla
Milling Co. that grinding is not such a difficult
problem ; they have installed 64 of them, and say
“the Hardinge Conical Mill is the most efficient
grinding machine we have yet gotten hold of.” If
they say this of the mills, it should be worth the
while of mine managers here to inquire about them.
The Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are
the sole representatives for them in the Common-
wealth, and will be glad to forward particulars.* [1
Extract from The Insurance Record, London, Sep-
tember 22, 1911: “To have written insurances for
£5,550,000 (Ordinary, Industrial and Accident) in
a year which was marked by the keenest competition
from beginning to end, is an achievement which
proves that the Colonial Mutual is a force to be
reckoned with in every sphere to which its influence
extends.’’*
PIONEER WOOD PIPE never rusts or corrodes,
and as the water preserves the wood indefinitely, it
presents easily the most efficient and durable pipe
for mine service. Full particulars from the Aus-
tralian Wood Pipe Co. Ltd., 57 York Street, Sydney
(Head Office).*
The Goulburn Municipal Council, after exhaustive
inquiries, have decided to install two 128 B.H P.
“Hornsby” Suction Gas Engines and Plants, as the
motive power for their electric supply (in competi-
tion vvith all classes of engines and boilers), thus
following the example set by a number of towns in
Australasia and other parts of the world, which have
already installed the “Hornsby,” with highly favor-
able results. Intending purchasers of motive power
should apply to R. HORNSBY & SONS, LTD., Sid-
ney, Melbourne and Brisbane.*
* * * *
LARGE CAPITAL AVAILABLE.—Good mining
properties. Industrials. Patents. Properties in-
spected and business propositions investigated in any
part of Commonwealth and abroad. Reply with par-
ticulars to Private Box No. 49, General Post Office
Melbourne.*
The highest returns for all kinds of residues are
obtained from Harringtons Ltd> of 386 George
Street, Sydney, who buy large or small quantities of
jewellers’ sweeps, polishings, handwash and lemel
process workers’ residues, plating baths and any
other materials containing gold, silver or platinum
Assays are executed for jewellers within two or three
hours, and prospectors and others are assured of
immediate attention. All kinds of analytical and
metallurgical work can be executed promptly and
advice given on all branches of industrial chemistrv
and metallurgy. The whole of the work is dmeted
by a qualified analyst and metallurgist from Johnson
and Sons, London, Assayers and Refiners to the Bank
of England, II.M. Mint, the Council of India, etc.,
and who are acting as London agents for Hai ring-
tons Ltd. for the treatment of large parcels of
sweeps, residues, ores, etc. Direct shipment of such
lots can be arranged.*
* * * *
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh Street, Syd-
ney.*
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modem scientific appliances kept in stock’
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
H.M.A.S. Australia, now in Australian waters, is
fitted entirely with Babcock and Wilcox Water-tube
Boilers, similar to the H.M.S. New Zealand and
other Dreadnoughts recently built for the Admiralty.*
* * * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Assayers, Mine Managers and Prospectors write
to H. B. Silberberg and Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, and at Melbourne, for particulars concerning
mjning requisites and sc’entific apparatus. Braun’s
disc pulverisers to 200 mesh; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh ; Ainsworth's assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospectors’ balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles: chemicles; etc.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
has been got from sales, the co. has had to borrow to
make the loans. Unless great care has been
exercised in regard to the advances, the co. will
yet be sorry that it didn’t hold off this business dur-
ing the recent period of inflated prices.
Broken Hill Junction North Silver
Mining Co., now the Junction North Broken Hill
Mines: —
Written
Loss. Dividerfd. Off. Deficit.
Sept., 1906 .. £3,065 Nil £5 126
Mar., 1907 .. 3,039 Nil £7,208 15,’373
Profit.
Sept., 1907 . . 17,726 Nil 7,891 5,538
Mar., 1908 .. 7,376 Nil 7,629 5,791
Sept., 1908 . . 12,418 Nil 7,263 636
Reserves.
Mar., 1909 . . 11,024 Nil 3,618 6,770
Sept., 1909 . . 16,821 Nil 7,589 16,002
Mar., 1910 . . 20,357 Nil 7,840 28,519
Sept, 1910 .. 7,620 £9,000 8,098 19.041
Mar., 1911 .. 34,094 18,000 7,987 27,148
Sept., 1911 .. 37,174 18,000 12,308 34,014
Mar., 1912 . . 16,391 9,000 5.281 36,124
Reserves wined out; new co. formed.
Sept., 1912 ... 36,828 Nil 22,254 14,574
Loss.
Mar., 1913 . . 5,744 Nil 2,928 5,902
Profit.
Sept., 1913 . . 22,114 Nil 6,338 21,678
In one way, the co. really did better in the half-year
than that last line shows. The directors were some
time in 1912 ill-advised or unlucky enough to go to
law with their neighbor, the Junction, and, the suit
going against them, £6OOO has this half-year to be
provided for costs, besides the £5125 that was
charged in the previous term. Also there is £lO,OOO
set aside as a reserve against probable shrinkage in
the value of deliveries on which the final settlements
have not been made. As metals have fallen of late,
this money, or most of it, will no doubt be called
for. On the other hand, “profit" made by extracting
ore from a mine isn’t, of course, true profit. In this
case, 45,668 tons W'ere taken out of the mine and
treated, and there are only 230,000 tons of reserves
that can be measured up; no doubt there is other
ore, but how much can’t even be guessed at. The
chances are there isn’t very much. The future de-
pends mainly on the treatment of by-products pur-
chased and to be purchased from other mines. The
share capital is £152,833, and approximately
£lOO.OOO of this, plus the liabilities ( £63,561),
is represented by purchased slimes (£80,403),
concentrating plant and liquid assets. Put in
another way, besides the mine and the plant, the co.
has £176,064 of assets, and it owes £69,561, leav-
ing a surplus Of these other assets of £106,503.
The Bulletin isn’t prepared to call this a surplus of
liquid assets, because £80,403 is represented by
slimes; and though that much has been paid for
them, only the future can tell whether the co. will get
its money back. So far, certainly, the purchase of
these slimes seems to have been the best bit of busi-
ness the management has been guilty of. The fact
is it knew something about slime-treatment when most
other cos. knew very little, the result, no doubt, of
experiments made by Owen, the young metallurgist
w'hose services this co. has just lost—America has
collared him. But other cos. know probably just as
much now about selective flotation —the basis of
slime treatment —-as the Junction North, so there
won’t be any more “snaps,” even if the metal markets
sbo’dd keen e-ood and past purchases should turn out
to be a “snap.”
Principal Westralian results for October:
Revenue. Profit. Value
Tonnage. £ £ per ton.
Great Boulder .. 18,906 47,829 24,892 53/1
Ivanhoe .. .. 20,712 38,665 14,005 37/4
Kalgurli . . . . 10,875 21,359 9,217 39/3
Associated .. 11,368 14,039 1,616 24/8
Lake View and Star 18,982 21,634 3,595 22/9
Yuanmi .. .. 10.550 16,909 4,068 32/-
Golden Horseshoe 26,532 38,758 4,707 29/2
Fenian . . . . 3,327 10,596 5,799 63/8
Boulder Perseverance 21,012 21,345 1,699 20/4
Sons of Gw'alia .. 13,954 21,673 4,971 31/-
Builfinch Prop. . . 6,175 15,394 9,085 49/10
Oroya Links .. 12,360 14,148 995 22/10
Corinthian North . . 2,240 1,099* 9/9
Queen of the Hills 3,420 5,887 2,391 34/5
Sand Queen.. .. 1,650 5,946 2,4.00 72/-
Mountain Queen .. 3,775 4,603 1,459 24/6
Mararoa . . . . 2,730 5,002 36/8
Menzies Consolidated 2,417 5,045 1,362 41/9
Associated Northern 7,866 « 7,940 2,284 f 20/2
Bull rush . . .. 1,380 1,385 20/-
Edna May.. .. 1,355 4,901 2,867 72/4
Kyarra .. . . 950 2,400 354 50/6
Commodore . . 830 1.760 687 42/5
Burhanks’Main Lode 1,133 4,190 70 74/2
Boulder No. 1 .. 2,123 1.655 750 15/7
Ida H. . . .. 1.350 4,267 500 63/2
Golden Butterfly .. 1,550 1,461 93 18/10
Lake View Consols 8,022} 1,441 288 3/7
South Kalgurli .. 9.780 10.515 10§ 21/6
Hannan’s Reward . . 3,392 1,723 10/2
Marvel Loch.. .. 386 1,09111 9 56/6
Greenfinch Prop. . . 120 350 50 58/4
North Kalgurli . . 667 1,312 39/9
*F.xclusive of £2942 in plant, flncluding £lll3
profit from Iron Duke lease. JOld residues. SHain-
ault lease development absorbed £9OO. ||£3lo of
this was derived from public crushing and from
sale of water and concentrates.
Westralia’s gold dividends for 10 months
aggregated £754.205. To this total Great Boulder
contributed £196,875, Ivanhoe £170,000, Kalgurli
£96,000. Golden Horseshoe £60,000, Sons of Gw'a-
lia £48,050, Associated Northern £35,000, Boulder
Perseverance £34,986, Yuanmi £26,250, Lake View
and Star £20,000, Sand Queen £18,750, Mararoa
£15,000, Great Fingall £12,500, Associated
£12,384, Black Range £3625, Golden Ridge £2318,
and Burbanks Main Lode £1767. As regards the
Horseshoe distribution, others beside The Bulletin
are asking how it was done. One inquirer mentions
that at the meeting in May last the chairman led
shareholders to believe that a ss. div. w'as looming
in the distance. At that time the co.’s bank balance
was not nearly sufficient to allow of this payment
being made, but a few months later along came a
4s. distribution. Continuing, the same inquisitive
person affirms that the co.’s total gross profits at the
end of Sentember were £102,447. From that these
amounts have to be lopped off: Develonmental ex-
penditure, £35 515; debenture redemption (to Julv
1, 1913), £6000; and a half-vear’s debenture in-
terest to same date, £5OOO. This leaves an avail-
able credit balance of £55.932. To pay a div. of
4«. per share took £60.000 exclusive of £6OOO for
div. duties. How was it done?
Sand Queen (W.A.) is coming on nicely:
600 ft. of ore-shoot is visible at the 350 ft. level, and
for a width of 6it. it lias a milling value of £4 per
ton. Another 600 ft. of reef is showing on the sur-
face, and as pot-holes have shown it to contain
gold there is good reason to believe that it is also
worth something. The main shaft is being deepened
to 600 ft. at a cost of Id4ooo, and at 400 ft. a 2ft.
reef worth an ounce was passed through. Reserves
above 350 ft. are estimated to be sufficient to keep
the present 10 head mill going for the next three
years. An extra 10-head is being installed, and,
with the assistance of this crusher, the co. hopes to
increase its dividends from £2250 to £3500 a
month. To date 48,000 tons have been extracted
and treated for, approximately, £150,000 worth of
gold. In the adjoining Gladsome lease a length of
870 ft. of ore, worth 655. over a width of 4ft., has
been opened up. All the mines in the locality where
these two shows are situated show good values and
extensions in depth, and at 650 ft. the Sand Queen
shoot is* expected to lengthen out to 1200 ft.
F. A. Govett has been holding forth in
London on the Ivanhoe outlook. Among other
things he remarks that, in view of the unproductive
nature of recent developments in the bottom levels,
it is satisfactory that the reduction in tonnage and
grade, as shown by the latest estimate of ore re-
serves, is small. Dr. Maclaren’s recommendations in
regard to sinking for better ore are, he says, being
followed, and he hopes to report the discovery of
good ore before long. As regards the frequent re-
duction of dividends by small amounts, Govett thinks
this has been too trying an ordeal for the nerves of
shareholders, so he and his fellow-directors have
given them an extra wrench and put an end to the
strain for some time to come by cutting down the
distribution from 17s. to 12s. a” year. At £3 per
share this represents 20 p.c. per annum. With four
years reserves in sight, substantial liquid assets on
hand, and the possibility of Dr. Maclaren’s forecast
being realised, the outlook does not, in Govett’s
opinion,* give much cause for anxiety.
Edna May, Westons (W.A.), lias got its
crosscut into the reef to the accompaniment of a
granite bar overhead. This floater gave the bears a
happy feeling, especially when the reef didn’t show
up on the spot suggested on the plan. They heart-
ened up again when the first foot in the reef showed
15dwt., but got a kidney-punch when first 2oz. and
then 4oz. prospects were reported.
Edna May Central (W.A.) proposes to
go for its life right away. So far four winzes have
been sunk from the 75ft. level to an average depth
of 55ft., ana in these the reef has shown an average
width of Bft., and is reported to average up to the
ounce. Further sinking will have to wait until some
pumping plant copies along, or some other means
are found to drain the workings This may be
brought about by the work now in progress at 150 ft.
in the adjoining Edna May property.
* * * *
Augusta at Laverton (W.A.) hopes to
get going some day. Floated in Melbourne nearly
two years ago, it started to acquire a collection of
second hand plant. The removal and re-erection of
this took some months, and then the co. rested.
Twelve months later it came to the conclusion that
a suction gas engine would be an acquisition, and
ordered one in England. This has now come to
hand, and unless another rest is taken, crushing
should be started early in the new year. Some time
ago a visiting director estimated that there was
enough 15dwt. ore in sight to keep the mill going
for 18 months ; but The Bulletin ventured to differ
from this opinion, and still differs.
* * * *
Carpathia’s alleged new discovery is
nothing to write home about. They are down on it
15ft., and have from it half a toil or so of poor
to medium ore at grass.
Great Cobar is still horribly slumpy. Cer-
tainly the cabled report putting the quarterly
revenue (to Sept. 30) at £156,000 and the expenses
at £148,000 may be inaccurate. A gross profit of
£BOOO would be almost appalling. The return for
July was 681 tons, for August 546 tons, and for
September 532 tons; _ total for three months. 1759
tons. To produce this 1759 tons Cobar must have
handled from 80,000 to 100,000 tons of crude ore.
Even on 80,000 tons this £BOOO would onlv be a
miserable 2s. per ton And the debenture and other
debt is well over half a million. No wonder share-
holders are shivering.
Occidental, Cohar (N.S.W.). is making a
special effort. It hauled 1191 tons in 14 davs; the
assay value was about 21dwt. The previous fort-
nightly haul was 1322 tons worth 16dwt. If assavs
are verified and the mill can extract 80 p.c. of the
gold, there should be at least 1600 oz. to come for
the month ; and unless there has been some dreadful
mistake in sampling, the elean-un should give a fine
profit. No doubt the more limited stoping areas give
the highest values, but the 32dwt. stuff will sweeten
things. Some of the faces are 20ft. wide, so the
Occidental should be able to maintain its tonnage for
a while, whatever mav happen to the assays, which
vary from 4dwt. to 32dwt. per ton in a surprising
manner.
To show what can be done on crude ore. 5
tons of heavy zinc (32.4 p.c.) sulphides have been
put through a flotation test at the Minerals Separa-
tion works at South Melbourne. Of the original ore
10.2 p.c. was turned, into a lead concentrate, 47 p.c.
into zinc concentrates and 42.8 p.c. into pyritic
middlings containing iron and zinc The zinc con-
centrate assays 50.4 p.c. zinc and only 4.3 p.c. lead;
the lead concentrate assavs 41.1 p.c. lead and 41.80z’.
silver, but is afflicted with 21.1 p.c. zinc.-
.Tnde-ing by the way things are shaning at
NewLangi Logan, Ararat (Vic.), a start will be made
to rush the first rise into wash before 1914. The
pressure of the water is down to 301 b. to the square
inch, and as an extra lOin. is clanking, it won’t
take long for Bill Toole to ease things to 251 b.
Then it will be safe to poke into the gutter. Already
£34.000 in working expenses has gone down the
main shafts, and £22.000 additional has been mopped
up in plant and buildings. Old deep-lead miners
always put £50.000 as necessary to get on to the
gold in the big gutter, so the costs to date are about
the average. Some of the best prospects have come
from bores either directlv under or just alongside
the Ararat railway that divides the lease in halves.
What Toole and Maokav have to ferret out is how
the Railway Commissioners will welcome alluvial
mining on a big scale below this line. With the
big crust of rock between the rails and the gutter
there mayn’t be anv more danger in working the
line over the gutter than over a coal seam, but some
official may not hold to that. If Toole nets on to
good gold in his rise he will have a willing crowd
to heln in his trs'le with the Department over the
point, because Victoria wants a good mine or two
just now much more than Bill Baillieu needs the
High Commissionership.
New Dempsey’s is still on the lookout for
a floor on the big dyke at Gaffney’s Greek (Vic.) ;
but the sum total of all the groping done in six
months’ hard graft was from 260 tons. That
doesn’t discourage the plucky band of Home Rulers
that have put their stuff into Gallney’s for the past
decade, as there is always the chance of a big rise
otf one of the dyke floors.
“Strathloddon”: I wish some Vic. mine-
owners would stop abusing the miners for trying to
better their conditions and learn their own business
better. At a mine in the Castlemaine district a
crushing plant is being re-erected that was made
by a local foundry over 40 years ago. Admit that
it’s a good advt. for Australian workmanship, yet
it says a lot for the want of up-to-dateness in Vic-
torian mining men. In this district large bodies of
low-grade stone exist at shallow levels, waiting for
up-to-date plant, honest labor and business methods
to make the field again important. It’s almost
criminal to put in a 40-year-old plant to break
shareholders’ pockets and pluck.
Mount Morgan’s half-yearly balance-sheet
will not be available for some weeks yet, but, to go
on with, shareholders may get some comfort from
the reflection that in September 800 tons of copper
were sold at £75 2s. 3d. per ton, or £l5 2s. 3d.
over the flat rate of £6O which forms the basis for
calculating: the four-weekly revenue. The returns for
six periods of 28 days give these totals: Copper,
4039 tons; gold. 51,1000 z. ; total value, £457,368.
The November return gave 634 tons copper, 8160 oz.
gold, and a revenue of £72,377 with copper at £6O,
or £78,717 gross with copper at £7O. But, although
Mount Morgan gives plenty of information about its
production and revenue, it is silent regarding* ex-
penditure. All we know is that the accounts for 12
months to May 31 showed a total expenditure of
£738,896; in other words, Mount Morgan for 12
months was spending at the rate of just over £2OOO
per day. This year exes, may not run quite so
high, but there is no indication that they will be
greatly reduced.
Charters Towers admits that for 10 months
calls (£29,639) exceeded dividends by £4506. The
best returns for the year so far are Brilliant Ex-
tended’s 22,075 tons, £58,805; Brilliant Deeps’
7263 tons, £31,326; Mills United’s 8636 tons,
£20,299; New Brilliant Freeholds’ 8877 tons,
£22,667; Victory’s 1560 tons, £13,584; Papuan’s
1385 tons, £10,740 ; and New Queen Cross's 1321
tons, £9192. Operations at the Deeps have not
resulted in a dividend. The co has been doing
expensive development work, but should proceed under
easier conditions next year. There has been an im-
provement in the shaft below No. 6 level; the stone
shows free gold, but the reef in the sink has been
smaller than usual. The strong shoot of heavily
mineralised stone met with in No. 6 should be picked
up in deeper ground, but progress is slow because of
the heavy flow of water.
Vulcan (N.Q.) crushed 1121 tons at
Irvinebank for 50 tons 16cwt. of concentrates
( £4377). The previous crushing gave 40 tons of
concentrates, so this one is an improvement. A
stoping area 20ft x 18ft. at the 965 ft. level is yield-
ing pay ore, and the pipe apparently extends from
900 ft. to 1050 ft. vertical. Recent returns have
averaged over £4 per ton, which is highly payable
when machine drills can be used to break ore from
wide faces.
South Glanmire and Monkland, Gympie
(Q.), surprised its shareholders with a crushing of
231 tons for 2730 z. smelted gold. This fell right on
top of a penny call and a share market with abso-
lutely no life in it. Even after the crushing there
were anxious sellers of “Glannies” in Brisuane at
7d. The manager’s report states that drives have
been extended north and south in favorable black-
slate country, carrying leaders. Gold was seen at
each firing. A width of 15ft. is being taken.
Shares are a gamble, for the leaders from which the
last return was obtained are notoriously patchy;
but the clean-up, together with call money, should
put the co. on a better footing and help it well on
towards the next plum in the pudding.
“N. or M.” : Apropos the proposal to buy
the Tasmanian Hydro-Electric scheme, and its rejec-
tion by the Council. The statement (B. 13/11/’l3)
that Tasmania could have had a 20,000-h.p. scheme
for £300,060 suggests purchase of water-rights, and
so on ; but, as a matter of fact, the co.’s concession
had lapsed, and the approximate £300,000 repre-
sented 17s. in the £ on all moneys spent, including
flotation exes., mistakes, advertisements, and so on.
No independent estimate was made of the co’s assets.
The Bill went out with a crash, but also with a
hint that if the Assembly sent it up again and
authorised the purchase at a more sober figure, it
would have a chance. The co. has now submitted
an amendment, but as this provides for the concern
being run by Private Enterprise, backed by loans
from the Government, it is likely to run into rough
water. The Apple Island has had enough of Private
Enterprise in public works.
Round Hill, Mount Claude (Tas.), three
years ago was about £3OOO in debt; now it has
several hundreds to credit. This change is due to
calls, tributors and the improved price of metal.
Credit, too, is due to Twelvetrees, Government
Geologist, who visited the mine last year, and
pointed out that the ore does not exist in lodes in
the ordinary sense of the word, but follows the anti-
clines of the country. Mining will doubtless in the
future be directed here, and not on the small veins
of richer ore, which have proved unpayable. The
mine is essentially a milling proposition, and about
nine tons of ore have to be treated for one ton of
concentrates containing 330 z. silver and 56 p.c.
lead. If worked on a larger scale it should yield
a fair profit with metals at or near present prices.
A movement is on foot to start mining
iron pyrites at Dial Range, near Ulverstone (Tas.).
Hitherto the Mount Lvell- Chemical Works and
Cuming, Smith and Co. have been drawing ore from
Chester and Zeehan respectively. Freight on the Emu
Bay-Zeehan railway is said to be ss. 6d. per ton,
and other charges are heavy on the West Coast;
moreover, the ore is not high-grade. The denosits
at Dial Range are of fair quality. One lode at
surface contains 44 p.c. sulnhur, and a heap from
another formation assays 43 p.c. sulphur and a
little copper. The ore shoots will doubtless be a
bit patchy, but probably not more so than Zeehan
lodes. Hobbs, sawmiller, Ulverstone, has a railway
from Leven River to Dial Range, and has offered to
put ore alongside steamers for 3s. per ton, and
there should be no difficulty in mining lots of stuff
containing 36 p c. sulphur at a cost of about ss. 6d.
for breaking. Many people, including Government
Geologist Twelvetrees, think it probable that payable
copper ore is associated with the pyrites; so there
may be a second string to the bow.
Shareholders in New Pinafore, Lefroy
(Tas.), after paying calls for many years, are likely
to see better times. Prospecting has failed to reveal
payable reefs, but a deep lead has been located, and
bulk samnles show from 6s. to 12s. per load. There
seems little doubt the deposit is an old river bed,
which crosses the line of nearly all the Lefroy reefs.
Specimen gold and blocks of auriferous quartz are
not uncommon in the wash. If the latter will pay to
mine in large quantities Lefrov will get a much-
needed lift. A new main shaft is being sunk as
quickly as circumstances will permit.
Taking advantage of the first surface
bubbles of an oil boom, Maoriland mining men are
sending numerous concessions and leases to bore for
oil to Svdnev and Melbourne. Most of them are very
risky. The fact is, outside Taranaki and Kotomotu,
where the Shell Oil Co. has been boring for two
years without success, no testing has evpr been done
in Maorilan.d with proper oil drills. There is only
one un-to-date rotarv drill in the North Island, and
it ought to be widely known that petroleum miners
everywhere are giving up the use of cable-drilling
rigs and the old-fashioned Canadian pole outfits.
In any case, two-barrels-a-day oil wells are not worth
working.
The newest oil proposition, the S. Aus-
tralian Oil Wells Co., is a Victorian idea, with the
indefatigable Geo. D. Meudell behind it. Meudell’s
baby is the Australian Oil Wells Co., which wants
to sell its options, etc., over large areas in the
south-east of S. Aus. to the new co. for 65,000 ss.
shares and £lOOO cash. The public is invited to
pay up for 100,000 shares at ss. T. J. Whaley, an
American with 30 years’ experience as an oil man,
declares the district “exactly represents the Ohio-
Indinna oil-field, which has paid millions sterling in
dividends.” He will select the sites of four bores
to go down, if necessary, 4000 ft A modern drill-
ing outfit, to go to that depth, will, it is said, cost
£4OOO. The proposition will appeal to gamblers
who play for big stakes, and it won’t cost them
much. It certainly would be more attractive, though,
if the promoting co. were a trifle more modest.
* * * *
Sungei Raia tin, the Malay venture of
a small Melbourne crowd, has gathered in more than
a peck of troubles. So the manager and an expert
are now on the ground to ascertain where the co.
stands, and what the ground is really worth. Work-
ing account for the past six months shows a loss of
£693, whilst against debts of £1756 can be ranged
bank balances of £638. This melancholy showing
has been wept over in due course in the Collins-
street office. It is so utterly unlike what everybody
was led to expect.


SKIN DISEASES,
Including Eczema, Pimples, Rashes, Boils, Chilblains
Ringworm, Shingles, Ulcers, Old Sores, have their
remedy in Rexona, the Rapid Healer. Sold in trian-
gular pots at Is. 6d. and 3s. Obtainable everywhere *
SOON MY FORMER SELF.
About eight years ago I had brass poisoning,
which caused liver trouble,” writes Mr. W. A.
Peez, Annat, N.Z. “I could not sleep or eat, and
wasted to a shadow. After taking Chamberlain’s
Tablets for a short time my health was greatly
improved, and I have had no return of my trouble.
I am now in good health, and reckon I owe it to
Chamberlain’s Tablets.”*
Under
Royal
Warrant
To H.M.
Kin^
George V
CHAMPAGNE
C« AMFA cHt
Qfcsfeslkidstefc
Reims
WORLD
RENOWNED
BRAND
stuhr.
STUHR’S
Genuine Caviare,
Anchovies in Brine
(SALTED SARDELS).
In Tins and Glasses.
Sold by all High-class Provision Dealers.
C. F. STUHR & CO., HAMBURG.
English Export Agent:
W. LOVEGROVE, LONDON, E.C.
VERY OLD COGNAC.
OTARD B RANDY
1875, 1860, 1848, 1820 VINTAGES.
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, November 24. 1913.
My Dear Arini, —
High Commissioner George Reid, hero of
a thousand banquets, is still wading through
an interminable speech and food list. The
N.S.W. Government fed him at Parliament
House with some pomp and circumstance.
Premier Holman proposed the health of the
principal victim, who replied in feeling
terms.
The wives of N. S. Wales Cabinet Minis-
ters gave the returned Reids a flower-trimmed
Pekoe party in the dingy Council Chamber.
A bank of ferns buried the official tomb
where the Speaker is w r ont to air his silk
stockings when Parliament opens with a
Governor’s Speech. Mrs. Premier Holman
received the company under the brim of a
Gainsborough hat surmounted by the pluck-
ings of a small ostrich farm. Mrs. Flowers,
Mrs. Carmichael, Mrs. Trefl6, and Mrs.
Arthur Griffith were lined up to shake the
hand of the invited dames, who marched
across the room in single file, with the gloomy
air of persons about to walk the plank. A
large waste-paper basket caughi the paste-
boards of the company when the usher had
finished with them.
G. H. Reid bore up cheerfully under the
steady advance of female finery. Mrs. Reid
and daughter Thelma, in airy muslins, the
weather being fiercely hot, passed the time
of day with their friends. Most of the
guests, having some idea that George Reid
was going to open Parliament, sat down in
solemn rows on the long leather divans, and
left the floor to the w.p. basket and the
usher. The Joseph Carruthers dame was
cool and restful to the eye in one of the soft
shades that take the tone of a broken biscuit.
The slender Mayoress Cocks, in amber-
brown, floated up the room at the tail of
the first arrivals : and ladies of every shade
in politics added to the gathering. Later
on the party retired in good order to the
refreshment tables.
The Garden Party at Government House
seethed round the guests of honor —the G. H.
Reid cavalcade. The latter came along rather
late, but quite half the throng had the joy
of firmly shaking G.H. and his girly lady
by the hand. Invitations were for 4 p.m.
With that unshaken desire to be first in the
fray which marks our Best Persons, the lead-
ing members of our old nobility must have
preceded their welcome by rather less than
an hour. They were arranged in a dressy
mob on the edge of the terraced lawn when
the ordinary herd struggled to reach the vice-
regal paw, and sharply criticised the herd,
dropping a little acid on its hats or its
feet. The joyful gathering pressed for-
ward till it met the Scotch cap of the new
Aide Macnaghten. This Help’s large fore-
head was creased with care before he
had finished with the names. General
Finn lent a hand, and the crushed straw-
berry trousers of Aide Talbot gave a decided
air of ducal style to the sub-royal court.
The Strickland lady, in a light summer frock,
was mostly hidden from the loyal lieges under
a veil like a small size in mosquito nets.
The Reid boys quite eclipsed anything sar-
torial in sight. The elder youth was beauti-
fully clad, even to the white spats, which
Piccadilly calls morning dress; the younger
was like an understudy of an Eton lordling.
Mrs. Phil Morton, in a white shimmer of
satin that was neither day- nor night-dress,
but a fashionable snack of each, had a gar-
den-bed of lilies at her waist, and a smart
hat banged up behind and poised on her eye-
brows. This millinery, which looks as if it
had been severely smacked, is apparently the
thing. Mrs. G. B. Brodie also had one of
these tipped-up affairs on her neat coiffure.
The 1913 Bulgarian atrocities in embroidery
have some milder moments, and a white gown
worn by Mrs. Lipscombe was a good-looking
affair, with the colors laid on in a meek burst
of embroidered floriculture. Two splashes
of vivid blue —Mrs. Pritchard Bassett and
Mrs. Maxwell Allen—got together on the
lawn, careless of any ill effect one garment
might have on the other. Mrs. Baronet
Cooper's pearls were events of enormous im-
portance. They hung about her neck like
ropes of milk-white marbles. Heaven or the
pearl-diver alone knows what these gems
would buy, if a few needy politicians could
melt them down into hard cash. A daring
dress-scheme, in the shade of mulligatawnev
soup, garbed Mrs. Trefle. This color is not
to be trifled with by women of less decorative
appearance. Mrs. Stuart Osborne wore one
of the small spring hats that survive the
banged-behind millinery, with a tailored turn-
out in black that ran away from competi-
tion. Mrs. C. G. Wade looked well in a
sorrowful shade of mouse-grey, with a sray
rose-pink sash to tone it up. " Veterans like
Matthew Henry Stephen and Chancellor
MacLaurin lined up to welcome G. H. Reid,
and parsons of every brand of theology sup-
plied an amen to the party.
The Sydney Institute of Journalists, a
bodv which dines and wines Distinguished
Persons, fed the over-fed visitor on
Saturday night. Editor Heney, of
the S. M. Herald, proposed the toast
of his health, and the sufferer re-
plied with prolonged reproaches to “Hop,”
who was seated opposite, and many refer-
ences to the Reid monocle which that artist
has immortalised.
The farewell concert of the recent John
McCormack season was a wild cyclone of
rabid demands for encore numbers. John’s
voice shows signs of the stress of work and
travel during the last few weeks, and he
intends to give the gold mine a holiday in
December. The chief vocal event of his
warble the other evening was a noble effort,
“Cujus Animam” (from “Stabat Mater”),
supported by the roll of the organ. Vin-
cent O’Brien was in charge of the vast Town
Hall instrument, from which he extracted
several items to fill the space allotted to
May Huxley. This young singer’s pretty
corn-colored hair is floating over a pillow in
Lewisham Hospital as I write. Quinsy is
the trouble. Donald Mcßeath’s fiddle gave
McCormack time to fly from his pursuers,
who threatened to chase him to the utter-
most note. War-correspondent Martin
Donohoe (formerly of Sydney Evening
News) and his wife went round to have a
word with John. Mr. Donohoe looks very
fit after his many perilous adventures. He
is the pet lion of the N. S. Wales inky way
just now, but very slow to roar about his
rush to the front.
John McCormack’s personal business
manager, under the Tait direction, is a good-
looking Irishman named Deiis Florence
McSweeney, formerly of Ivillarney, now of
New York. He’s of the height and breadth
of the largest policeman who occasionally
holds up the motor hog in his murderous
career through these streets, and he wears
the diamond pin of a Chicago millionaire or
tinned-meat king. This illumination, which
is equal to about 1000 candle-power, was a
presentation to the McSweeney at a send-off
dinner in Shauley’s Restaurant, N’York.
George. Cabot Ward, who handed over the
goods in a flowery speech, gets the gift of
tongues from an eloquent ancestor, Charles
Carroll,, of Carrolltown, one of the founders
of Baltimore, whose signature you’ll find in
the Declaration of Independence.
The youthful Sydney fiddler, Donald
Mcßeath, couldn’t have been born on a Fri-
day, for his luck is the size of a haystack.
John McCormack is taking the clever Aus-
tralian to America for his forthcoming tour
of the star-spangled States. Besides this,
he is going to hurl a handsome bonus at
Donald, in the form of a complimentary con-
cert. This will occur in our City Barn early
in December. Moreover, the famous fiddlers
Ivreisler and Elman, who are friends of John
the Songster, will be goaded by the latter
into taking a personal interest in the tech-
nique of the Fortunate Youth.
Mayor Cocks opened the Society of
show on Saturday morning. The
work of young artist Griiner, who has sud-
denly “arrived” with a fine painting of
Sydney Harbor, is a feature of the Exhibi-
tion. The Bank of New South Wales people
cheerfully planked down 100 guineas for
it. They’re, going to offer it, as a small
token of their regard, to their general man-
ager. Julian Ashton, who steers the Society
through its joys and sorrows all the year
round, is off the chain just now. His fav-
orite hobby, a personally-conducted tour of
a sketching class on the South Coast, is
keeping him out of mischief.
The late Col. H. P. Airey’s youngest
daughter, Dulc6, was married in Sydney the
other day to Hubert G. Bossley, who hails
from Brewarrina sheep-walks. The groom’s
father is Tarburton Bossley, of Willoh
station, up that way. Gunner Airey, D. 5.0.,
was considered the father of the once-famous
A Battery of the Permanent Force. In
spite of having lost an arm in a British-
Burmese argument long ago. he was a dash-
ing horseman, and one of the smartest men
in the service here. Turned out to grass in
his declining years (a cheery prospect which
the Commonwealth offers, without a pension,
to its old soldiers)., Col. Airey put his small
means into a S’African farm. He died in the
Transvaal none the better off for the experi-
ment. Two or three members of the Airey
family have drifted home this way. The
others have taken root in S’Africaf
Another mating occurs some time in
December, when Gladys Henriques marries
Leo Cohen. He’s the eldest son of Dr. A. A.
Cohen, of Darling Point, and the girl is one
of the daughters of F. A. Henriques of
Bellevue Hill. The bridal nest will be a
lovely cot the groom-expectant is building on
that sea-breezy knoll. The wedding is to be
a dressy affair by the light of the gas jet. The
moon will be spent in the Apple Island.
News drops in of the pretty Milton-Iving
sisters, formerly of this town, now settled in
India. Linda, the dark-eyed girl, who re-
cently married Ernest Austin, of Calcutta,
is going to be domiciled in Barrackpore. The
bridal plumage was a gossamer web of hand-
made lace, mounted on a soft shimmer of
something more substantial, with a hu°-e
white-sash top dressing. The Milton-Kings,
pere and mere, were present at the wedding’
which took place in Colombo. Mrs. Yor-
rick-Smith, the attractive blonde sister of
the bride, and her husband, whose regiment
has just been moved from Barrackpore to
Rangoon, were included in the fuss. Cham-
pagne flowed at the Galle Face Hotel after
the ceremony. The honeymooners tripped off
to the hills of Kandy.
Frank Tait, of the brisk firm that waylays
likely artists in Europe, and bustles them
off to this continent, is going to wed Miss
Lynch on November 29. The bride that will
be is a niece of Dr. Peter Lynch, of Mel-
bourne. The Tait Bros., by the way, hail
from the Shetland Isles, where the sea fogs
take the curl out of the manes of the stout
little ponies, and life proceeds at a steady
jog-trot.
Baronet Joe Ward’s daughter Eileen is
going to face the domestic problem in M.L.
in company with Maoriland’s golf champion
Wood. The wedding is to take place some
time in December. The Dominion hus-
band is said to be the best-trained break-
wind between his missus and the ever-vanish-
ing help in Australasia. For uncounted
years he has rolled up his cuffs and tackled
the washing-up, and he usually trains his
sons in the way they should go. In Wel-
lington, Mr. Leading Lawyer is so accus-
tomed to take in the milk and put out the
cat that he is a highly-trained Gentleman
Help. So the Dominion girl who marries a
local man is likely to engage a generally use-
ful assistant who won’t give her five minutes’
notice.
Australian-born Justine Kong Sing is
steadily climbing the tricky ladder that leads
to an upper chamber in Art. She writes
from Chelsea (London) where once the sage
Carlyle did walk. “I am lucky again and a suc-
cessful exhibitor at the Walker Art Gallery,
Liverpool. It is rather a difficult exhibition
to get into. Two miniatures, one a Dutch
violinist, the other of a young English lyric-
writer, Nancie Marsland, are my contribu-
tions to the show.” Justine remarks, in
several postscripts, that artist Sid Long had
just returned from a sketching tour in
Bruges. He looked well and at p§ace with
his finances. Dr. Creed, of this town, had
been sight-seeing abroad. He was peering
into politics in the House of Commons when
Justine caught a glimpse of him. Fred
Leist is mentioned as another Cornstalk w r ho
is doing well in John Bull’s antheap. Jus-
tine was busy with a miniature of a pretty
S’Australian youngster when she wrote.
Artist Hetty Dymock, who used to turn
out some good samples of still-life at the
R.A. Society’s shows here, will return to
N. S. Wales about the end of the year. She
has wandered up and down the British Isles
with her sketch block, and made some
spirited attacks on Europe’s war-worn face
with brush and palette, since she left her
native land.
Mrs. Throsby. of this State, goes to
Colombo in the Drama on December 6. She
is off to meet her sister, Miss Gibson, who
leaves England, with her trousseau packed,
by the Omrah, for Ceylon. There she weds
one of the innumerable Anglo-Indian civil
servants in those agitated parts.
A small and popular feature of the Mon-
golia, officer Mum-Mace, has been passed on
to the cargo steamer Socotra, which tramps
the seas betwen London and the Orient.
The little Mum-Mace is affectionately known
as “the ’Skeet” in the P. and O. service at
this end. He is the son of the Radical
colonel of that name who was one of the
founders of the National Liberal Club in
London.
Local Society is surging round the Lucas
Teeth, who respond to the clatter with the
amiable dignity of returned royalties.
Mrs. Vincent and Miss Lue Dowling, who
went off to India the other day, are included
in a perceptible trail of Australian tourists
to that land of bad tempers.
A very interesting man, Arthur I. Street,
saw his luggage off the last ’Murikan boat
that tied up in Sydney. He has done very
considerable things in journalism, on his side
—was editor of Collier’s Weekly; is con-
nected with the Sunset Magazine, the en-
ticing literature whose chief purpose in life
is to repeat the old advice, “Go west, young
fellow.” Street is a man with more ideas
than ounces avoirdupois. If you asked him
his specialty he would probably tell you that
he was a news accountant. “We apply
book-keeping to everything except news,” he
complains. To fill a long-felt want he used
to publish a monthly, quarterly and annual
index to news —a wonderful precis of every-
thing of consequence, so well arranged that,
after five minutes’ earnest communing with
the book, anybody could present himself as
a wonderfully well-informed person on the
subject he had been swatting. I don’t know
what happened to the “Pandex,” as Street
called it. I didn’t care to ask him. I’m
pretty sure it died —and he loved it so. So
must hundreds of leader-writers on hundreds
of newspapers. After spending a few months
in the study of Australia, Street goes on to
London, to pick up more furniture for that
already well-furnished head of his.
Mrs. Aubrey Montgomery, of ’Frisco, the
widow of a gilt-edged owner of Southern
Pacific Railway shares, is one of the much-
travelled Americans who freemently blow into
the Australia with a ton of luggage. Maori-
land is likely to soon see some of this lady’s
dollars, as it is one of the few plots of earth
on which the persistent globe-trotter hasn’t
bumped her Saratoga. Mrs. Montgomery.
who represents the ’Murkan eagle in his most
impressive pose, expects to eat her Christmas
pie in Singapore. llow the 20th century
globe-trotters’ shades will ever settle down
on the other side of the Styx on one patch
of cloud is a mystery which even Sir Oliver
Lodge hasn’t dared to probe.
Mrs. Ivettlewell (Agnes Storrie before her
marriage), who has been gadding in Europe
for the last eight or nine months, will step
ashore in this hamlet in a week or so, bring-
ing her daughter with her.
Hugh Mclntosh, who runs the Tivoli cir-
cuit and a few other things, has come back
to Australia with his sunburnt face and
breezy manner undamaged by travel. He
hurriedly mentions tearing across the globe,
interviewing dukes, hotel clerks, variety
artists, railway porters and Amurkan vaude-
ville managers (the last are still wondering
what hit them) while he signed contracts
and arranged to lease a London theatre.
In the intervals of hurling his baggage all
over the earth, Hugh Mclntosh filled
Sherry’s famous food-palace in New York
with people who were asked to greet Lady
Constance Stewart Richardson —the only
notable woman dancer mentioned in Deb-
rett. A Venetian band, silk menus, and a
banquet were the result. As a little sou-
venir of his travels, the Mclntosh has
bought Mrs. Mac. a huge violet-bodied
automobile of 60 h.p.
Merchant Gotthelf and his wife are ex-
pected here from the other side some time in
January. Every hungry charity which used
to clamor at the Gotthelf door, in the sure
hope of relief, will now prepare for action.
The Sydney Medical Mission, which is
aided and abetted in its good work by leading
members of the Pill and Plaster brigade, is
anxious to collect your spare shillings. A
Fair for this purpose will be opened by
Mrs. Mayoress Cocks in the grounds of
Springfield, Potts Point, on Nevember 27.
The authorities who preside over St.
Brigid’s Orphanage at Ryde are scraping
together, in money and kind, assistance for
their annual Christmas treat to 100 orphaned
bairns. The gentle Sisters of Mercy who
watch over these youngsters send a soft whis-
per for help your way. In the sure faith
that they won’t be forgotten, the kiddies will
hang up their stockings in the same old
place on next December 24.
Still another show of Women’s Handi-
crafts is going to appeal to persons who
have the Christmas-craft habit. Mayoress
Cocks acts as godma to this display, and
surrounds it with At Home trimmings in
her official lair in the Town Hall, on
November 28.
Arthur Adams got the poetic bit in his
teeth and bolted with the prize of £lOO
offered by Farmer and Co., Ltd., for the best
burst of Australian National Song.
Mr. James Roberts, who used to manage
the Sydney trams, passed the shadowy bor-
derland a week or so ago. Mrs. Ambrose
Pratt, of Melbourne, wife of David Syme’s
biographer, and Mrs. Harry Austin, of Dar-
ling Point, are daughters of the late good
old sportsman.
Sydneysiders who went over to the Mel-
bourne Cup are still wailing in our Best Sub-
urbs. They found, they say, the small-pox
scare waiting for them in the most expensive
hostels. One visitor had to heavily gild the
palm of a waiter before he was allowed to
munch his food in the vicinity of the woolly
aristocrats of Victoria. “I positively refuse
to sit at a table with any of them Sydney
contracts,” said an indignant sheep-farmer
who helped to stir up the nerves of the com-
pany.
About 300 guests bustled into Sargent’s on
Saturday afternoon. Miss Mab Fothering-
hame, one of the vocalists whose pretty
chirp is uplifted at the Wentworth Gardens
evening concerts, was the excuse for this tea-
drinking. With a 90-degrees-in-the-shade
temperature, the company proceeded to enjoy
itself in the sweat of its brow. The energy
that was left over after tableaux and orches-
tral music simmered down into guessing
games arranged by actor Winter Hall. The
party was organised by that small bundle of
perpetual motion, Mrs. Malcolm Stephen.
A purse of sovereigns, an autograph album
and a huge basket of flowers were the offer-
ings laid at the feet of the young Sydney
singer. The girl’s persistent efforts in the
cause of that cbeorful mendicant, Mrs.
Charity, were recognised with such enthusi-
asm that the organiser had just energy
enough left at 6 p.m. to mop her perspiring
countenance and retire to the family ioe-
chest.
An Australian just back from the Fog
met there a leading member of the Irish
Nationalist party in the House of Commons.
He says: “As Ulster seems to be determined
to make a fool of itself, it’s worth repeating
the statement of Paddy, M.P. 1 am not at
liberty to mention his name, as the conver-
sation was not intended for publication ; but
he certainly voiced the intentions of his
party, before Ulster began to talk gunpowder
and riots. He said that the Irish Cabinet
would include at least three leading Protes-
tants. James Gordon Swift Macneil. who
claims kinship with the famous Dean Swift:
Haviland Burke, a writer and a desceninnt
of orator Edmund Burke, and Stephen
Gwynne were tipped as the trio.”
Yours affectionatelv.
VANDORTAN.


I
COB/?.
IL
i
THZ.
m
Boot
o a o o a c\ u c
mmm
rOLI
Stt
&
y
\^a
Hm
n
v
s
4SSS
\
•ssß
r
r
%
l
rlk
«
? 0
1*
0°
%
m
\5
Zi
((
Cobra,” Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Says, “ Oh, Dry Dog
Sahib, if you
“ Want to shine like
Moon on water,
All your footwear,
Sahib, vou oughter
7 j o
“ Shine with COBRA.
Then you can
Walk thro’ mud with
Any man,
“ And not have to
Pull up dead
Where the angels
Fear to tread !'”


Farmer’s Stylish Panamas
ARE
211-
each
Permanently Popular.
The distinctive dresser—the man who
values comfort—the sportsman—the traveller
on business or pleasure—-each and all attest
the supremacy of the Panama for Summer
wear.
Imported direct from South America—the
home of the Genuine Panama —Farmers
Panamas embody the latest style innovations,
including the new American Telescopic
Crown ; brims, 2J, 2J or 2 j inches wide, as
preferred. _ t
Zl/ -
Others: 25/-, 30 -, 35/- 42 50/-, to 5 Gns.
We Pay the Carriage Throughout Australia.
FARMER’S, Sydney.
PITT, MARKET and GEORGE STREETS.
21|-
each
DR. SHELDON’S DIGESTIVE TABULES
are a positive cure for Indigestion, Flatulence, Heart-
burn, Acidity of Stomach, and all Stomach Troubles
Price, Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. per tin. Obtainable
everywhere.*
Dunlops
for Durability
Cheap...
Motoring
is only possible
when your Car is
shod with high-
grade tyres of
sufficient strength
and weight to
withstand our
rough roads.
That’s why it pays
to always use our
Heavy Grooved...
DUNLOP
TYRES
* * *
Motor...
Cycling.
The most popular tyres
with Motor Cyclists are
“Dunlops.” The reason
is that they are heavier,
stronger and better
wearing than any of the
imported brands. For
tyre satisfaction always
specify “ Dunlops.”
IN STUDDED, GROOVED
AND RIBBED PATTERNS
* * *
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
All States And N.Z.
Duniops
/ora big Mileage
\
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, November 24, 1913.
My Dear Yakrie. —
The Fuller dame arrived in Melbourne on
Sunday morning by tne mail tram irom
Adelaide, with the faithful Victor Hood in
attendance. The suburban peerage fltd by
motor to dusty Spencer-street, and made a
pleasant stir for the glum early-morning
loiterers. A red carpet had been laid on
the platform; but a porter had to keep
jumping on it to prevent it from flying to
\Verribee on the wings of the hurricane.
Gaud Mayor Hennessy, who had been blown
ut of his top hat bv the ferocious winds,
had as much as he could do to keep his head
inside a mere bowler. He hung on to the
brim Lire a drowning man, while his wife
clasped a big bouquet of pink roses, the rib-
bons of which kept whipping round her neck.
The Forrest dame, who is always cheerful
u principle, blew about with her feathers
turned the wrong way. Bigjohn was
more or less with her. She pleased
the officials dreadfully by asking in-
numerable questions. Railway people love
to be asked questions in distinguished com-
pany. Miss Chomley was neat and un-
ruffled by the wind. Mrs. Fred Payne looked
pale but brave; she wore a best hat on a
windy Sunday morning, long before church-
tiine, like a real heroine. Joan of Arc
couldn’t have done it better. Premier Watt
brought a small child wrapped in red flannel
and dandled it on his knee in the motor. It
was at first mistaken by the short-sighted
for a presentation bouquet; but as he didn’t
give it away to anybody, these foolish
blinkers realised that it was something of
value that he wanted to keep. The
Denman lady, the Barttelot dame and
Mrs. Pearson were away in Gipps-
land on Bush Nursing business and could
not get back from the wilds in time. There
was no sign of the Maddens.
The welcomers whom the homing lady most
wished to see were lifted on to the platform
of the observation-car by a nurse immedi-
ately the train came to a standstill. Then
there were gurgles of delight and homely
yelps of “Hello, Mum !” Her Ex. was soon
out and about with the children, looking
fresh and pink after her rail journey. Her
fair, glossy hair was tucked under a big
black hat, and she wore a grey crepe dress
and carried a lot of red roses. When the
yellow motor got clear of the station and the
crowd, Mamma was observed to be hugging
the family in hearty fashion, while patient
Victor Hood, sitting opposite, made a good
target for their dusty and enthusiastic young
heels.
Accompanied by his wife and his dear old
friend the Dust Fiend, Gaud Mayor Hen-
nessy boarded the cruiser Melbourne and
presented the ship with the arms of the city
done in brass. Mrs. Hennessy, in a shore,
neat check suit, scurried up the gangway out
of the storm, and her husband followed,
holding on his top hat, from which he
couldn’t be separated by dynamite. Ad-
miral Creswell and all the nice naval men
hovered about, and Mrs. Silver, who is tali
and droopily graceful like a Du Maurier
drawing, added some grey drapings to the
picture. Captain Silver, the sea boss of the
Melbourne, tops his wife by a head; he is
of the long, lean, greyhound type that has
no trouble about keeping a correct waist.
Alfred Deakin, whose hair is taking on a
ghostly grey tinge, weavod garlands of
speech about the incident, and daughter Ivy,
with husband Herbert Brookes, listened re-
spectfully. Mrs. Silver gave a tea party,
at a later date, to show off the new decora-
tion to the Best Females who could not
manage a morning function.
Prince George of Battenburg is suffering
much publicity because of his prospec-
tive marriage with the Princess Maud of
Fife. English papers are unduly excited
about the loving recollections Australia is
alleged to have of the boy Prince, who came
here as an officer of the battle-cruiser New
Zealand. As a chill matter of fact, Melbourne’s
Best Feeders only have a recollection of
being kept freezing in their motors on the
drive of Federal Government House, long
after the appointed hour of invitation, just
because young Battenburg chose to dine at
a funeral pace. The Denmans dared not rise
from the table until the young man had
finished; and he proved to be the slowest
finisher on record.
The Pinschof-Finley wedding, a St. Paul’s
Cathedral show of November 17, was car-
ried out on the American plan. Bride-
groom William Moore Finley hails from Los
Angeles, California, and came out here on
business for his father’s wealthy firm. He
straightway annexed Elizabeth Pinschof with
a diamond ring, and the wedding date was
fixed right off in business-like style. The
bridesmaids were led by a matron-of-honor
—to quote the official American term. Mrs.
Kent Parker, wife of Robert Parker, of the
Quinlan Opera Co., played this part with
great dignity. She carried an armful of
red climber roses, bandaged her hair in pink
tulle, wore a blue and oink dress, and stood
right on the altar steps alongside the ner-
vous pair. The team of four bridesmaids,
also arrayed nicely in pink tulle, stood at a
respectful distance from the bride and
dimpled at tlieir attendant groomsmen, who
stood by during the long ceremony. Pa
Pinschof led his girl up the long aisle. Bride
Elizabeth had lost all color, but her fetching
dimples remained on duty, and her fine, black
eyes were both there. She dressed in dead
white, and contrasted well with the maids.
Motors congested the traffic in a very
gratifying manner outside the cathedral, and
chauffeurs argued fiercely with lorry drivers
and others who were merely earning their
living. However, everyone got away safely
and sprinted for Studley Hall and the re-
freshments that were spread therein. A
band on the terrace blew all the latest tango
music, and the guests filtered in through the
conservatory, past wedding bells of flowers,
to the exhibition of presents. This part of
the show was magnificent, the glittering re-
sults being well worth all the expensive fuss.
.V small bunch of social identities took
shelter in the half-guinea stand at Rich-
mond last Saturday to watch the motor-
racing. Rain and wind helped to make it
almost as uncomfortable as fashionable
Flemington, and the track became more and
more greasy and dangerous as the day blew
<m. r lhough there were numerous exciting
skids at the turns, the expected accident
didn’t happen. The unsuitable track was
in the right condition for a crash at the
end of the day ; but by that time the drivers
had got sick of it. The Richmond experi-
ment proved dull, and the weather gave it
the last kick. The women present were
chiefly interested in the strange caps of the
competitors. One man had pneumatic tubes
criss-crossed on a little leather crown and
the smartest chin-strap you ever saw. An-
other Had a peaked bonnet with the safety
nadd ; ng right on his brow. The racing was
hardly as exciting as the strange clothes.
Honeymooning here are Mr. and Mrs.
Holme, after a very quiet wedding in Syd-
ney. The new bride was Miss Lil Bakewell,
one of the two daughters of a very rich
Bakewell who lately, wanting a hobby for a
whiD, decided to make one by spending
£20,000 or so on a house of his own plan-
ning in a secluded part of Taylor’s Bay.
Still, though money’s all right, the lady of
the new Holme household will be equipped
with better things even than that.
The Forrest dame’s niece and adopted
daughter, Muriel North, has been breaking
into poetry undetected by Senior-constable
Society. But a printer has made an arrest,
and there are visions now of the sentimental
swag being safely lodged inside a blue-and-
gold binding.
Margaret Lewis-James, the clever girl who
used sometimes to give her fellow-members
of the Writers’ Club the benefit of her
soprano voice, mentions in a letter to one
of the committee of the club that she has
signed a three-years contract to sing
pnina donna roles at the Nice Opera House.
Margaret (whose pa edits the oldest news-
rag in this State, the Geelong ’Tiser) was
advised by Melba to go on the Continent,
young girl. She recently dropped in to
-Madam’s “goigeous flat” in I’aris for after-
noon tea, and gushes happily of Her kind-
ness and encouragement. Margaret, by the
way, is Margherita Valdi for operatic pur-
poses.
Mrs. Herbert Brookes gave a party to
show her picture—the one presented to her
by a grateful Chamber of Manufactures,
after the visit of the inter-State delegates.
Mrs. Ashby, wife of the secretary of the All
Australia Exhibition, came along and joy-
fully jingled a long grey silk purse full of
presentation gold. You could tell it was real
by the sound it gave off when she threw it
into the air or hit it against the doorpost.
Old Henry Berry, who has been having a
long honeymoon with the new Mrs. Berry
(she used to be Mrs. Heffernan), is back
from his jaunt. A welcoming crowd of
nephews, nieces, children and grandchildren
are clustered round the generous old man,
and you couldn’t have got through the crush
with a bull and two policemen.
Mrs. Clendinnen is returning, a very sad
widow, to Melbourne. Her husband, the
X-rays specialist, died of collapse after his
operation in London. A doctor son prac-
tises in Toorak.
It wasn’t Judge Molesworth who was at
the races the other day in an unfamiliar hat.
Even though the face looked so familiar, I
should have known by the hat, and remem-
bered that the Judge died some time ago.
I’m sorry.
Mrs. Albert Nash gave a garden party at
distant Cranbourne to buck up the laggards
of the Women’s National League. Needless
to remark, the locals put on their best hats,
rounded up all available men, and drove in
every kind of wheeled thing to the straw-
berry spread. Brother-in-law Andrew Chirn-
side rolled along from Berwick, and Coun-
cillor Scott Sharp arrived with a busted
tyre. Both had left sick wives at home, so
they were received as real sympathisers with
the League, and not as mere escorts. Miss
Nash and several flappers flirted their sashes
(the sash is now the feature of party frocks)
and gathered in a number of very young
men. Stewart Murray’s son sputtered to the
feminine spree as fast as a motor-cycle could
bump him. After an elaborate and expen-
sive afternoon tea had cheered everybody in-
wardly, a totally-unexpected collection-plate
was carried round for the Cause. Visitors
sat up with a jerk, but cashed up under the
influence of the girl collectors’ smiles. _ Mrs.
Morton then talked mock-turtle politics for
three-quarters of an hour, and after that the
vuests admired the beautiful roses that talk
not, and departed full of strawberries and
self-satisfaction.
The sale of a collection of art treasures
brought over from France attracted guber-
natorial patronage to the Guild Hall. A
piece of Aubusson tapestry and a couple of
vases were purchased by the Denman lady
for £2OO, and Mrs. W. H. Pearson’s honor-
able hubby bought some Sevres vases and
other goods for two thousand.
Thus early, Melbourne Repertory Theatre
Club threatens a money-making dance for
next May. The chief plotters are Mrs.
Albert Miller, Mrs. Barrett, Mrs. Alfred
Cornish, Mrs. John Sanderson, Arthur
Wrixon, Marshall Lyle and, of course, the
Gregan McMahon pair. The Very Best
Squaws are already planning their dresses,
and the Denman lady has personally called
a general meeting for December 15 to jabber
about the distant affair.
Madge Titheradge and her sister, who is
with her in the Waller co., are as like as two
peas, and, since they both wear green for
choice, it is hard to distinguish them. Sister
pervaded the races in a .mignonette-green
dress, close-fitting and natty, and a small
white collar. She trotted about by herself
most of the time. Both of the sisters have
a remarkable sweep of jaw ; but, since it is
well covered, it is not so apparent as
father’s. Like leading-lady Madge, Lewis
Waller has a double in his twin brother, who
stage manages for him.
Mrs. Green’s fancy-dress ball will make
Melbourne Town Hall shake on the night
of December 8. A G.-G. party, a Lieuten-
ant-Governor posse, a Gaud-Mayoral gang
and a Parliamentary mob are to perch in
the gallery and admire the youth and beauty
downstairs.
H. Septimus Power, who made his mark
in this sporting country by his paintings of
horses and dogs, is giving a farewell view
of his work in the Athenamm. He has put
in some hard toil during his Melbourne
stay, and has a lot of new stuff to show.
The picture of the Denman children on their
ponies will be lent for the occasion, and
another interesting exhibit will be a por-
trait of Bess Norris Tait and her young
son, accompanied by a pony. The show will
be open from November 26 to December 9.
Sculptor Cadorin and Lovie Mueller
Cadonn gave an intellectual corroboree, at
their St. Kilda place, on Thursday, when the
artistic host managed to make a pretty word-
picture of old Venice in English. Lovie,
encased in shimmering pink, warbled in
Italian. The Mayoral Plennessys, Baracclii
and Archie Strong all sat in the front row.
Henry J. C. Lingham, Hellenist, attired
joyously in the simple costume of ancient
Greece, lectured on "The Religion of
Beauty” to a select gathering of intense
people at tne obscure austral ttaion.
Tne tubby exponent of the Religion
strode on to the platform in his
quaint regalia, and you immediately
realised that he was in need of some brisk
morning exercise. His white cloth Grecian
tunic bulged slightly where liis warm mod-
ern underwear was thick upon lnm. His
legs were bare except for sandal-boots, and a
bright scarlet-fringed cloak was hung about
his shoulders. It missed the effect intended
through being too short; actually it was
more like an old man’s shawl. There was
an unnecessarily strong smell of creosote in
the room, and the only real joy of the even-
ing was in the lantern slides of lovely
Grecian figures and ruins. The lecture was
pathetically out of date from a fashion point
of view. For instance, Lingham raged about
compressed waists. Now, no woman has
troubled seriously about her waist measure-
ment for several seasons past. If
Lingham could but see it, the Grecian in-
fluence on fashions is in every street. He
should really go over that lecture of his witli
an intelligent dressmaker, and bring it up
to date. And, while he is at it, he might
try to design a toga or bath-robe that won't
betray the Jaeger underwear.
Artist Will Longstaff has been trundling
about Melbourne’s side-streets in a van and
making water-color studies. The driver,
when he wasn’t actively engaged steering
the vehicle, was furiously engaged chasing
curious small boys. The sketches made dur-
ing these onsets and pursuits were intended
for a show; but most of them are already
sold and hung up in Melbourne’s wealthy
homes. “Sort of painting by the dozen,”
chuckles Longstaff, “but it was a relief after
big portrait work.”
Bigjohn Forrest is enduring congratula-
tions for a stroke of good fortune that didn’t
hit him at all. The lucky man is really
nephew John —alias Jack. He pulled a
thousand-pound prize out of Tattersall’s, and
uncle is getting tired of having his hand
shaken on account of it.
Celia Ghiloni, having discovered a new
way of dissolving the too, too solid flesh, has
imparted her priceless secret to the other
members of the New Corbies ; and whether it
is due to following her instructions or is
just a coincidence, there can be no doubt
that Flo Young, Roberts, Talleur Andrews
and Celia herself have all grown beautifulh
less since they were last in Melbourne.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
Mrs. Colonel Paterson, of Victoria, has been put-
ting in 10 days at the Queen Adelaide Club. An-
other visitor is Mrs. C. R. Murphy, of Weinteriga
station, on the Lower Darling. The latter leaves
with her husband for England at the end of the
month. Is either of them has called a public meet-
ing to denounce the way the club is run, so I take
it they are satisfied. By the way, the H. P. Gills
are also off to—yes, you have guessed it in once,
They go via the Cape.
The Misses Bosanquet were farewelled by the
Adelaide Croquet and Lawn Tennis Club on Tuesday.
There were (1) a tournament, (2) a presentation,
(3) tea, (4) cake. (5) profound grief.
The Glenelg Sailing Club scrubbed its decks;
vacuum cleaned its sails and bunting- snlip Pf i
mainbrace; shivered its timbers, and uniurlert hT
booby-hatch—all in honor of the opening of
ing season, The club did all this on Saturday r
tain Wedlock acted as M.C. or cnief
Mr. W. P. Hayes, of Mount Burrell, who d S
Monday, had been in S.A. for 59 years and W,° n
as much about the Bar North as any man h er !
He began on Yedualoo station, 100 miles from Pi
Augusta, which at that time had one resident T ■
by name. He got a bullock team, and carted S
from Wirrabara to Pekina for fencing 'ihen k
took a turn at the fencing, and afterwards tried t-
hand at dam-sinking. After the drought of ’em k
obtained from the Government a lease of vt 16
Burrell, formerly part of the Elder property Ta
stocked it lightly. Since then he had gone"
more or less steadily, and his estate will nav i, k
stantial probate. He was as well known and liwi
as any man in Central Australia. It was his W
that his daughters could muster or brand caul
with anyone, and that they were as capable of
ning the station as he was. run '
The Adelaide Children’s Hospital Fete whint
occurred last Saturday, was the customary h ~
success. J m K e
The Canowie case fizzled out weakly. The Agric 1
tural Society admitted that the ram of contention
was neither rugged nor artificially fed. So everyone
is fairly well satisfied, barring, possibly, the ram
which must have felt annoyed at being accused of
luxuries he never enjoyed. The lawyers in th
case were more than satisfied
The Henniker-Heatons passed through on Thurs
day. They were lunched at the club, bv the Wavs'
the Bonvthons, Miss Heaton and Mrs. Herbert Rvmill
completed the party. Henniker says sadly that tw
is the last time he will see Australia. "He is not
the blithesome youngster he was, and his wife who
is delicate, hates the sea trip.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.


© '
Pop
FEELS A
SDIGHT
DIFFIDENCE
UPON
FIRST
ASSUMING i
NECK-TO
Knee "
■ -s -
V R>< a. Q,o OP CF
ftuT ts ■ BY u
l_A<p'Y - FTRjEiRDS AND SOOtS L^ES
3) nIS*Q
H(S
IRAN QU uS-fY
IS
TDIS 7 LIRBET-D
BY THE. CRY
OF "SHARK'"
HS THINKS HIS
4AST HOUR HAS OoMg.
n»s r.'EO is
Pulled' "From BElow.
© "M
RESTORED . To IMAT lON
By the: OS UAL METHODS
© V ny / i
now \ / J
F\NDS \ <3 J /
\
hAORE
EXHILARATING
FHOIV. "E/\SY
CHAOH WHERE HE.
CAN" Cool Hsmseif
oJUST AS 'ETFFECTUAUY
WITH A BOTTLE
SCKVVEPPES 'invje- JUICE.
COK'D IAL.
MOSTLY ABOUT SURF-BATHING.


For all parts of your
Motor Gar
WOO* ILAIf
Bon
Bon Ami removes the dirt only
polishes leautifuUy, and will not t
scratch.
For
throoms
Bon Ami
is the best
for tiling
marble,
tnamel
and
porcelain
5
Just try it in your batnroom.
[3
as
ft.
Pleasurable Motoring , s assured if you have the right car.
Our cars have proved themselves to be the best. A complete
range to suit all requirements. FIAT, SUNBEAM, ROVER,
8.5. A., FORD, ADLER, F.N., AUSTRO-DAIMLER.
TARRANT MOTORS PTY. LTD.,
Russell St.,
Melbourne.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
TOUT: “ step inside for one moment , sir! A
large shipment of new shirts and lies just
in!"
BILL: “ Shirts and ties! I Vot'd l be doin'
with shirts and ties , an' me. with a beard?"
HIDDEN GI.ORY.
“Bex”: Homing instinct in animals?
Well, an old pal of mine was a cat that was taken
per boat from Port Adelaide to Wallaroo, and was
back before the return of the barge. Don’t know
the exact distance, but reckon it at about 100
miles.
“Snell” : Diuny Beecham and Dave Poole
were mates at Sandboy, where there was an aggravat-
ing lead just deep enough to make sinking a consid-
erable undertaking, yet rich enough in spots and
places to spur the adventurous. Beecham and Poole
had put down a 60ft. shaft, and bottomed on stuff
that promised to pan out a grain to the acre.
Naturally the existing strained relations between
Poole and Beecham were not restored to normal by
this harrowing fact. Beecham and Poole had fallen
out at 20fc., had come to an open rupture at 30ft.,
and at 40ft. Poole had been commanded to “sling
his hook” and find house and home apart from
Beecham’s roof-tree. You see, Beceham’s wife wasn’t
at all bad looking, and if it is injudicious to intro-
duce your donah to a pal, it is fatuous to have your
pal bide in the same bungalow. Dave Poole pitched
his tent under the hill, and the men continued to
co-operate in mutual sullenness, the tacit understand-
ing being that when this job was finished there would
be a fierce rough-up, followed by a sudden, bitter
and eternal separation. It was an ill-judg"d moment
at which to drop a bucket full of wet wash down
60ft. of shaft on to a suspicious man like Beecham,
but Poole did it. It was an inadvertence. Poole
did not intend to let the bucket go. In the circum-
stances he woujd not have cared to drop anything
heavier than a pick. For just half a minute Poole
lay on his stomach, chalk-faced, gripped with horror,
calling Beecham’s name. There came no reply out
of the depths, and Poole arose and left Sandboy.
He did not linger even to change his shirt, but took
to the track, and was over the hills and far away
before sundown. He went north by dark and devi-
ous ways, and for seven years Dave Poole confined
himself largely to wild and unsettled places in “New
South” and Queensland. Then David met a man
who supplied information that sent him working
back south, with Sandboy as his target. Poole found
Sandboy a bucking township. He discovered a pros-
perous hotel, and Dinny Beecham in the character of
sole proprietor was behind the bar, providing horse-
power for a beer-engine. Dinny saw what was com-
ing, and did not shirk his duty. He went over the
counter, and met Dave fair and square on the floor
of the house. It was the most vigorous mill ever
seen at Sandboy, and terminated only when David
was too exhausted to hit and Dennis was too weary
to resist. “Yeh lyin’, thievin’ dorg, yeh told me you
was dead,” whispered Poole, collapsed against the
wall. “Liar!” said Dinny. “I never whispered a
word. I’d iust took up a nugget worth seven hundred
quid, and if you wanted to run you was welcome.”
Denis Beecham had cleared about £6OOO out of the
claim, and as Dave had not registered, and had for-
feited by running, anyhow, he never got a bean.
* * * *
“Stolir Ruddoll”: In B. 23/10/T3 one
“Elliott, ex-whaler,” summarily dismisses me as an
inexperienced “bagman ” because, abetted by three
whalers in full practice, plus my own sad experience
of Goulburn and Wagga, amongst other ports, I
nominated Narrandera for the Best-Town biscuit.
The “hum” wants rest. To an
extent, that virtue is qualified by
beer and tucker; but beer and
tucker without rest profiteth not.
Now, tell me where in sober, re-
spectable, wind-swept Goulburn,
with the quod frowning on the
occasion, can rest be found? As
for Wagga, it is written on the
doors and walls of travellers’ huts
in three States that, in that town,
ago and dirt and many rents alone
can save Matilda from the paws
of the marauder. Hence “Wagga”
or “tiger skin,” meaning three or
four frayed, disreputable bales
sewn together and wrapped around
a swag as an earnest of hopeless
poverty. Narrandera wins because
it combines facilities for uninter-
rupted oblivion with a plenitude
of beer and tucker. And it may
be to the point to remind
“Elliott” that I wrote of Nar-
randera as it was last year, with
irrigation and with 1200 men at
North Yanco (Is. 2d. train fare
distant). “Elliott's” reflection on
the quality of Narrandera’s beer—
on any beer, for that matter —dis-
plays the true suburban instinct.
Last July the bridge accommoda-
tion at Narrandera was danger-
ously overcrowded by visiting bag-
men. Each morning when the
angelus tolled the birth of an-
other thirst, the troupe picked
itself up, washed itself, dusted its
blankets, rolled them, and then
mustered its cash. Once it (the
cash) trembled on the wrong side
of two bob. Yet any day the
man who could at noon reach the
soup tin, bulging with good, fresh
meat and vegetables, without
touching both sides of the bridge
railings at intervals, was sus-
pected of a tight-rope ancestry.
“Oondamine”: From my experience (lie
fence-scaling capabilities of dingoes vary in different
localities. Here (Moonie scrub, Queensland) an
old 4ft. netting fence with numerous holes made by
wallabies kept dingoes back for two years. Last
week, on our own place, the dingoes burrowed under
a netting fence 3ft. high, plain wire on top, and
forced the sheep out of a yard. This happened 20
yards from the house. At Surat, 60 miles west,
they scale Cft. netting. I think it is when they
are crossed with the domestic dog that they climb,
as we’ve seen none but pure-breds here. As for
hunting in packs, they do; and we’ve noticed that
litters that grow up together seldom separate.
“W.H.P.” : I got my first view of Chinese
civilisation as J rode up the Cooktown-Palmer road
when the diggings were at their best. Between the
top of the Normanbv range and Byerstown I passed
seven broken-down Chinese foot-packers suffering
from burst varicose veins. They were in little mobs
of twos and threes about a mile apart. I gave them
what water I had and passed on. As a rule, they
died. When a Chinese packer fell out, his pack was
divided amongst his mates, and he was left to
die or live. Which of the two he chose was purely
his own affair.
KEEP ING IN WILL THE FORCE.
ARTIST: “That's a marvellous piece of art—'John Wesley .on his Deathbed.' Bid don’t
you think customers might find it a little depressing?"
LANDLADY: “Well, the fact is there's a new Methody p'liceman on the beat. I just
borrowed the picture from the furnituie shop for a while, so that he'll find the place
'omelike."
“ ’Possum”: There are some bl ight boys
among the chauffeurs these days, but the daddy of
the bunch was in the ltiverina very recently with a
party of tourists. Somewhere about midnight the car
was on a road in a part of the country unfamiliar to
anybody on board, when it came to a standstill for
want of petrol. The night was frosty and dark, and
no sign of a habitation could be discovered. Just
when all hands had made up their minds to a camp-
out the chauffeur suddenly unblanketed himself and
spiraled a “cock-a-doodle-do” to the stars. A tempo-
rary silence followed. Then, faintly, from the right,
came the answering howl of a rooster. The rest was
easy.
* * * *
“Albion” : I am sick and tired of all this
nonsense about the bushman and his literary pro-
clivities. The talk about bushie putting in his spare
time laboriously wading through the “Home Uni-
versity Library” is nothing but the result of an
elastic imagination. I’ll admit that you might find
an odd copy of Nat Gould’s, or some piratical or
bushranging yarn. It’s odds-on you will see The
Bulletin and the Worker, and occasionally the
World’s News gets a hearing ; but the “old masters”
are conspicuously absent. You are more likely to
find an accordion than a book. The man who toils
in the bush from sunrise to sundown reaches his
mansion dog-tired, and doesn’t care a rap whether
Bacon or Shakspeare wrote “l’aradi e Lost,” or
whether Dickens and Thackeray wrote books or
peddled oranges. The writer who claims that the
bushman is more intelligent than the average cityite
is talking through the roof of his old brown hat.
Notwithstanding all his picture shows and toeball
matches, 1 really think the city dweller reads more
in a year than the son of gumleaves does in a life-
time. In Sydney and Melbourne second-hand book-
shops are as numerous as goats in our West Queens-
land towns, and I won’t mention the magnificent
libraries, free and otherwise. What about the coun-
try? It is so exceedingly keen on literature that
its Schools of Arts have to be subsidised, and now
billiard tables are being universally installed to
popularise the institutions. The committees, in their
wisdom, may think that by encouraging young Aus-
tralia to go off the red into the middle pocket he will
eventually become a deep student of literature; but
there is a big doubt about it.
“Harborite" : Recently caught a hr* ,
known as “blue groper” near Kirribilli p f fish
ney. Saw a large, bottomless coal-basket 0 ’" ’ Syd '
bound at great speed. Investigation hr
huge fish whose head protruded at the a
his dorsal fin, being caught in the mesh end;
him going astern ; and of course the
let him sink. Held an inquest, an ,l . t p . WoulJ »'t
verdict of death indirectly caused through !T ed 6
trying to follow smaller fish through ah , asei
was big enough for them but not big " hich
him. b ™°ugh f or
“Chloe” : If there be any possibility of
making shore, the Malayan seaman will not stav
afloat during an eclipse of the moon, but will rather
sit on the beaches in hundreds some hours before the
darkening period and chant penitential psalms to
the supposed offended deity. The intoning is most
impressive; the fine, robust, rich voices keeping per-
fect time till the shadow begins to close up. Then
sudden and impressive silence. As soon as the moon
reappears there are shouts of joy, and after copious
swigging at rum bottles a new programme begins,
the night being made hilarious with all kinds of
mutilated music-hall ditties in bad Dutch or worse
English. The abject fear shown during the eclipse
is in strong contrast to the courage of the Malay in
the real danger of the worst typhoons. While the
luggers were being piled up on the reefs along the
Ninety Mile Beach during the typhoon of 1909, the
Malays stood side by side chanting a recitative
death song, or address to the Sea, their Father.
Both words and air were entirely without that spirit
of bravado so characteristic of the Japanese at the
same time. On that occasion nearly three hundred
natives went to death on the reefs, singing as they
died.
* * * #
“Kodak” : About the only Zoo inmate that
doesn’t get peanuts dashed in his face is the lion.
The majestic brute with the Elizabethan ruff of
hair isn’t insulted like the creamy Polar bear who
pads damply up and down in his cool concrete den,
or the restless and disconsolate hyena. These and
other indifferent inmates have the crackling fodder
fairly rained on them during business hours. The
degraded and unpublishable monkey nibbles it busily
till the donor moves on to the next cage, and the
neat Malayan bear opens his mouth obligingly and
thrusts an appealing paw between the bars when the
supply eases oft'. Most of the birds oblige, and the
kangaroo attends to his duty when a well-aimed nut
hits him behind the ear. 'Jlie camel’s aristo-
cratic indifference does not protect him, and nuts
bounce off the natural roof of the tortoise. Uneaten
nuts also litter the cages of sleepy owls and curled-up
’possums and decorate the dozing puma’s den. The
only barred animal that escapes is the great imported
beast that rages on the British coat-of-arms; appar-
ently even the most outrageous fool and the youngest
infant know that he is out of the peanut class.
(Continued, on page 24 .)
LOBSTERANIA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I saw the world a-standing on its head ;
A spectacle that filled my heart with dread.
And oh ! my consternation was complete
When I beheld men thinking with their feet.
I candidly confess to you
The whole darned globe was humpty-doo.
I saw men hauling carts, and on the seats
Were horses, driving mortals down the streets.
The train I used to sail in, I declare,
Was upside-down ; its wheels ivere in the air ;
The first was really second class,
And second, first —a pretty pass !
The streets that used to run from east to west
Careered from west to east with noisy zest.
The pavements, where of old the cattle grazed,
Beheld the sight and they were much amazed.
In fact, I never saw a pave
So fiercely tear its hair, and rave.
The houses, with red tiles and chimneys crown'd.
Were wrong-side up ; their roofs were in the ground.
Which, let me say, was disconcerting quite—
Especially when we came home at night,
As I at the commencement said,
Each one of us upon his head.
The ships that sailed the seas were upside-down,
In keeping with all other things in town.
The little fishes, shocked and stricken sore,
Were walking arm-in-arm upon the shore,
And making rather mixed remarks,
To porcupines—or were they sharks ?
The sardines that we had for tea were whaLs.
The blessed dogs were barking with their tails.
The hens were crowing, and the roosters laid.
My creditors to me £lO repaid—
Which was, though maybe seeming small,
By far the strangest thing of all.
I tell you straight, the whole darned thing was
queer—
The funniest thing in this old hemisphere;
In fact, to put the matter very plain,
I never want to see the like again—
Nor eat a lobster ripe and red
Before I tumble into bed.
x.s.w.
IYLES INNISON.


BEALE. PIANOS.
The fadt that to-day we are the largest piano firm doing business in the Commonwealth is due solely to the
quality of our instruments.
No effort has been spared in the manufacture of Beale Pianos to reacn perfection of tone and ensure
durability. To-day our instruments stand absolutely unrivalled in those respects.
Beale Pianos are specially designed and made to meet all the exigencies of the Australian climate. They
embody every improvement known in piano construction, and are made under the direct supervision of an expert who
has made scientific piano manufacture a life study. In addition, they possess special features which you cannot get in
other pianos ; such as our permanent steel tuning-system, hexagonal bass-strings, patent cast-in hitch-pins, and our
patent method of building up the casework.
The Beale Permanent Steel Tuning System renders what was hitherto the weakest part of a piano the strongest.
In every Beale Piano the wrest-plank is made of solid iron. The wrest-plank is that part of the piano into which are
driven the tuning pins to which are attached the wires (or “strings”). In every imported piano the wrest-plank is
made of wood, which has to bear the strain (about 20 tons) of all the wires when the piano is in tune. So that in every
piano that has a wooden wrest-plank there is a probability of the wrest-plank splitting and the piano becoming untunable
in consequence. And in every piano but the Beale the wrest-plank is made of wood.
In all Beale Pianos the wrest-plank is solid iron, a part of the iron frame itself.
Write for our special booklets explaining this matter in detail.
We have recently put on the market the Beale Player-Piano. The Beale Player-Piano possesses the finest
mechanism it is possible to produce, fitted in a Beale high-grade piano of handsome appearance. The artistic possi-
bilities of the interpretation of a roll on the Beale Player-Piano are limited only by the artistic temperament of the
performer. The mechanism is so delicately regulated and every control so perfect that it is easier to play than any other
piano-player.
FREE LIFE INSURANCE: We supply, when requested, a Free Life Insurance Policy, without any charge
whatever, to buyers of Beale Pianos. This covers the life of the customer during the course of hire-purchase, and
insures a valuable and saleable asset to the family without further payment in case of bereavement. The Policy is a
purely free gift from Beale and Co., Ltd., so that no other person may claim under it than the person named by the
customer when accepted by us.
All Beale Pianos carry our written guarantee for Twenty-five Years.
A Beale Piano is lower in price, quality for quality, than any other piano you can buy, and in after cost it is
also cheaper, because it requires far less tuning and less frequent expert attention in every way.
PARTS : Should you by accident damage your Beale Piano we can always replace any injured or broken
parts at a very low cost to you, because we are the actual makers, with our factory facilities here in Australia. But if
you buy an imported piano, and it gets damaged, you will find it expensive to repair, because the agents have no factory
facilities here and they do not carry stocks of spare parts.
BEALE CO. LTD.,
MAKERS OF
BEALE PIANOS.
t
Prices: £49, 55, 60, 65, 70, 75# 80, 8 5, 95, 100, 115# 150, and 240 Guineas.
136 a& 136 b LIVERPOOL ST. (opposite Mark Foy’s), SYDNEY.
127 RUNDLE ST., ADELAIDE, S.A.
273 LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
839 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.
90-92 QUEEN ST., opp. Pike Bros., our new and ONLY Address in BRISBANE.
Branch Offices at Newcastle, Bathurst, Orange, Wagga and Broken Hill, N.S.W.;
Maryborough, Rockhampton, Mackay and Townsville, Queensland; Kalgoorlie, W.A.
TRAVELLERS EVERYWHERE. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE. 25 YEARS’ GUARANTEE.
Head Office and Factories - - TRAFALGAR ST., AN NAN DALE, SYDNEY.
CASH or EASY TERMS. REPAIRS and TUNING. Save Importers’ Profits by Buying Direct from the Manufacturers.


KIDNEY DISEASE
and all allied complaints have their prompt and
"effectual remedy in Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills, which
act in a wonderfully speedy manner. Give them a
trial. Price, Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. Obtainable every-
where.*
A GROCER’S RECOMMENDATION.
“For the past 20 years,” says Mr. R. Harrison,
grocer, Parramatta Road and Catherine Street,
Geichhardt, N.S.W. “I have been a sufferer from
diarrhoea, and although I have tried doctors’ prescrip-
tions, have found nothing relieve me like Chamber-
lain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy. 1 always keep a
bottle for my own use at my private residence and
at my store.”*
NABOB BOOT PASTE
Economical, Brilliant, Waterproof, Easily Applied.
Manufactured by LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney. l 2
“Gip” : Once upon a time, in sweet Sep-
tember, I went shooting with an English visitor —
an immaculate person of whom we were rather shy.
His apparel was of the last correctness, and, unlike
ours, quite unsuited to sliding down banks and
fighting through brushwood. Meandering along a
narrow, high-banked creek we espied a lamb, very
young, very appealing, and very bright-eyed, gazing
up at us. It sprawled on a dry spot far down, and
was a gone lamb unless someone lifted it to higher
ground. Our visitor stared at it and made to move
on. Then: “I say, you’re not going down there —
what t’’ I was tucking up my skirt regardless of
appearances. The bank was greasy after rain, and
it was an ugly slide. “Oh, but if you insist you
must let me go, really.” I let him go. After a
good deal of sliding and bogging, he succeeded in
handing me up the lamb and scrambling to the sur-
face himself. He was very red in the face and
terrifically silent. “We haven’t enough milk to
poddy it,” I mused. “Whatever shall I do with it?”
Mr. de Chauncey made no remark. He was ex-
tremely busy with his ruined attire, and redder in
the face than ever. Just then a ewe bleated. “Oh,
there’s its mother,” 1 gushed. “Mr. de Chauncey,
would it be troubling you to carry the poor little
thing over that ridge and put it down quietly near
the mob?” “Carry it, eh? Oh, 1 say, it’s an
objectionable little beast — what!’’ “Why, it’s per-
fectly now and clean,” I assured him indignantly,
but added sweetly: “Never mind, you sit here and
rest. / can take it.” That decided him, of course.
He took the lamb gingerly from my arms and dis-
appeared over the little grassy ridge. Ten minutes
or so went by and then Mr. de Chauncey came into
view. With his cap he was beating off the lamb
that muzzled his leg affectionately. He looked very
excited and his hair was in disarray. As long as he
could, he preserved his dignity, but at last he ran.
The lamb came full tilt in pursuit. “Look out;” I
shouted. “Keep clear. It will be in the creek
again.” “But, I say,” he bawled back, “the beastly
thing won’t leave me.” “Run that way,” I pointed.
“If it falls in here, going at that pace, it’ll break
its neck.” Mr. de Chauncey ran that way. So did
the lamb. He turned and shouted again. “What
shall I do now?" “Carry it back to the mob and
climb a tree,” I cried. “Oh, but I say,” he bleated.
Nevertheless he did it, and after giving the mis-
guided lamb sufficient time to discover that the
woolly thing baa-ing and not the dishevelled biped
clinging to a limb was its parent, I came and drove
the mob away and released the treed one. He re-
turned to town next day.
“Pick”: Here’s my last say in this row
re the dingo’s ability to scale fences. The sheep
owners of Monaro (N.S.W.) always consider their
wool crops safe o’ nights when enclosed within
paling or sapling yards, or even within hurdles, if
dingoes only are on the warpath ; but when a half-
breed, or domestic dog gone wild, is on the ram-
page it is a different matter. At Countaguinea, in
the centre of the Jingera dingo haunts, the sheep
yarded at night were never molested until a stag-
hound renegade joined the warraguls. He and his
reputed offspring after him have kept the settlers
cursing ever since. Also I have known of many
cases where sheep-owners joined in offering large
rewards for the destruction of particularly atrocious
sheep-killers, and in every instance the outlaw was
either a full or half-bred domestic dog. “Leo
Lear” is the first I have ever heard accuse the
dingo of scratching under a fence. My knowledge
of the animal prompts me to assert that he never
scratches unless it is to get the usual encumbrance
out of his coat.
THE COUNCIL CHAMBER OF TOPHET.
In this underground chamber aldermen and
councillors are compelled to discuss eternally the
state of the roads.
“Gordon G.”: When you get jurors’
stupidity and cockies’ prejudice mixed, absolutely
anything’s liable to happen. I had some served up
last month, and the effects are still with me. A
farmer was being tried before a jury of his agricul-
tural compeers for murdering a drunken swaggie.
The evidence showed that the prisoner found the
man lying in his (the prisoner’s) hay. After tickling
the prostrate one three times in the rib with a hoe,
the cocky had threatened to bash him to a jelly
or thereabouts unless he satisfactorily explained his
presence. In reply to which the beered gentleman
had said “Hie,” or words to that effect, whereupon
he received the promised fatal bash. After five
hours’ deliberation the jury returned a verdict of
guilty of manslaughter, with a strong recommenda-
tion to mercy—on the grounds of “extreme provoca-
tion.” If the “drunk” had wandered into the cow-
yard and disturbed Strawberry, I feel sure the jury
would have gone further and said that the cocky
was quite justified in killing the brute.
ONE ADVAN'KAGE, ANYWAY.
“Boy, d' you know that Hell is full of cigarette smokers?"
“Order be a bonser place fer cigarette cards, then, Mister."
“J.J.C.”: In answer to “Leo Lear” (B.
16/10/’l3) re platypus, I have not known the
quaint beast to be found north of the Dawson, nor
is he found in the Territory or around the Gulf.
1 have asked the natives of those parts about him,
and they do not know of him at all. Elsewhere I
have found him mostly in shaded streams, but only
at early morn or in the evening. He is so easily
killed one would almost fancy that be dies of shock
when fired at.
“Camp”: Old Andrew Laing, the squatter,
was a species of Cameronian Wowser—death on
what he called “Sawbath desecration,” liberal to
the “kirk,” but hard as flint in every other way.
Bill and I had taken a contract (labor
only) for some five miles of fencing.
When we started on the job we found
that the posts had been dumped off the
bullock-waggon in heaps, which meant
fairly long intervals of “humping.” When
we interviewed the old man to have them
carted and dropped along the line, he
refused absolutely, as it was “no’ in the
agreement” we’d signed. As we lay in
the tent smoking on Sunday morning,
Bill casually mentioned that the cook at
the men’s hut had told him there were
two top-notch Presbyterian sky-pilots
staying at the “big house.” “And that,
gives me an idea,” says Bill, “that we
can score in that post argument yet. I
reckon the old cove’ll be takin’ his visi-
tors for a walk before lunch, and he
ain’t so blanky religious that he won’t
meander round this way just to see how
the fence is gettin’ on. Let’s peel off
and buck in.” When the old chap, com-
ing up the gully with the two parsons,
sighted us, he went a sort of purple in
the face. “What the I mean, do you
men know what day it is?” he splut-
tered. Bill, in a respectfully reproachful
way, explained that, unless we did the
extra work of post-lumping on Sundays,
we hadn’t a chance of making wages at
the job. Old Laing cut matters short by
telling us to knock-off, and he would
send a dray and a couple of men up in
the morning to lay the posts. Later, we
saw by the Bangeroo Express that he
had donated £2OO to the special Presbyterian
mission, but the loss of that didn’t pain him like
having to provide a horse and dray to shift those
posts.
* * * *
“S. S. Severn”: There are more ways than
one of keeping our Papuan sick brother alive, and
llrupi, head orderly at the hospital, invented one
of them. We had a bunch of “boys” suffering
from a deadly tropical disease that mostly eats
its victims in 24 hours of untellable torture. Urupi
was a kind and capable soul to these boys. He
fed them tenderly from a spoon, and gave them
much white man’s mura-mura (medicine) to tide
them across the acute stages of the agony. Then
came his half-day off duty, and, preparing to
depart, he harangued his charges thus: “You got
a big sick. Close-up you dead. This my day for
walkabout. Close-up I go. Suppose bera-kera
[to-morrow] I come back I findum you finish [dead],
I fight you big along my belt.” He unclasped his
service belt with pouch and knife-sheath attached
and showed them. “Oh, taubada,” they promised,
“we no dead. We talk you true.” And they kept
their word.
“Yannatherra” : Ryan used to be assistant
blaster at the quarries. On the day he disappeared
he must have been standing on top of an exploding
charge. We never recovered enough of him for a
funeral. Subsequently, a mate, who had not heard
of the accident, was inquiring after Ryan. Murphy
was the informant. “Where’s Bill Ryan?” queried
the friend. “Gone!” volunteered Murphy. “Has he
left for good ?” asked the stranger. Murphy embraced
his facial herbage, gazed skyward and said: “Well,
he wint that way, anyhow.”
* * * *
“Gouger”: “Flinderino” (B. 9/10/T3)
speaks the whole truth re, the Chow’s partiality for
Binghi’s gins in North Queensland. The simple
reason why Binghi does not bring the matter to the
spear-point is that he is three-quarters drugged with
what the Cooktown native calls “mungus.” Mungus
is opium charcoal, which even the Chow cannot
smoke. Incidentally, the Chow receives double value:
Is. per oz. for the charcoal and the company of
Binghi’s better-half. The charcoal is dissolved in
water, and if a sufficient quantity has been obtained,
the whole tribe sits around and drink the poisonous
stuff. When once he gets used to mungus a native
will do just about anything to procure more of it.
Though whole tribes have been wiped out, the North-
ern police can do little or nothing to stop the traffic,
which they know is going on all around them. I
will say they try bal'd enough, especially in Cook-
town and the Mossman.
“The squeaky brake is to be suppressed. Many
people will enthusiastically speed so unwelcome a
parting guest. The legislative committee of the
Melbourne City Council has drafted a by-law specifi-
cally tabooing this nuisance under a penalty of
£5. Amongst the trials of city life are squeaky
brakes, street vendors’ shouts, and the clanging of
tram bells.” Vide daily paper. Phillips Ormonde
& Co., engineers, patent and trade mark attorneys,
17 Queen Street, Melbourne.
1 ick : llie porpoise is a warragul thai
creates havoc amongst the ocean flocks when he t
them rounded up along-shore. When in early «
mer the salmon traverse the coasts. / p
watched the porpoises, generally in small numh” 6
wheeling and cutting off and heading back th’
schools, until a squirming mass of fish, resenbl i
acres of seaweed, rolled and swayed asraino
beach. Then with a terrific rush the sea-dine
drive headlong through the tangle, and a
foam and blood drifts back to mark their pass °
whilst numbers of the terrified prey hurl themself
high and dry on the sand to escape the saw lik
jaws of their enemy. I have often waved my thank*
to the departing warraguls and taken to camp Solt , S
of the spoil.-
* * *
“O. Brown”: .Tim the mailman was ap-
proaching the changing place when the horses
bolted. On the seat with him was a fat “commer-
cial.” About a hundred yards from the gate, which
opened through a solid three-railed fence, Jim’ sprang
off discreetly, leaving the bulky passenger to his
fate. The horses dashed into the fence, ami chaos
reigned. When Jim arrived, the passenger, more
frightened than hurt, wanted to know why jj m
hadn’t stuck to the coach. Jim, always a casual
cuss, looked hard at the debris and merely remarked
“1 thought the fenee’d f-fetch ’em up.”
“Billy T.” : The young Australian lover is
alive to the requirements of his time, and capable of
seizing an opportunity. The evidence in the ease is
extant. Two young gentlemen of a Melbourne seaside
suburb to which a horse-tram dawdles fell in love
with the same girl at the same dance, and this
simultaneousness led to a violent rupture of work-a-
day friendships. The boys proceeded to hate each
other with a scalding rancor. You see, the girl has
something a week of her own, and is expecting all
Uncle Tom has got, and uncle has got lots. Perry,
being a strategist, outmanoeuvred Mac Kay, and took
Cecilia home. But Mac Kay was the earliest caller
next day. The courtship of Perry of the first part
and Mac Kay of the second part became a sort of
feverish and vindictive competition. The combatants
were fighting all-in, no holts barred. But at a crucial
moment Perry put in a most effective bit of work,
and scored a whole sheaf of points. He found a
dirty, vulgar ruffian in the act of insulting Miss
Cecilia on the lonely sea beach. At any rate, the
fellow looked as if he might be a vulgar ruffian,
there was no proof that he was not dirty, and it
was not wholly unreasonable to suppose he would
insult Miss Cecilia if prompt action were not taken.
Perry knocked the fellow down, and bore the half-
fainting damsel to her adjacent home. Mac Kay,
whose sprint landed him lOsec. late, could do no
better than capture the dirty, vulgar ruffian, and
take him to he interviewed by Cecilia’s male rela-
tions. ’The vulgar ruffian explained to Cecilia’s pa:
“The bloke in the straw-decker gimme three quid t'
do it. I was t’ sorter bustle the clinah, an’ he was
t’ pitch me one next the lug. I thort it was a hit
iv play-actin’, an’ 1 done it, an’ it’s cheap money.
INQUISITIVENESS REBUKED.
THE LADY : "And how long have you [?]
out of work?”
IMPOVERISHED GENTLEMAN : “My Ear
madam, I asked you for assistance. It is
surely quite unnecessary to tell you my
age."
There yeh are.’’ He displayed the three sovereigns
in proof. Money talks, and is believed. Now Perrj
wonders why he is so frost-bitten at Cecilia s, aftei n>
heroic conduct, too, and Mae Kay is going strong, an
promising to finish in front. He will probably never
regret the spending of that three quid. His brig i
idea and his ready action in paying the beat o
say that Perry had paid him to do it will no < Oll
win their merited reward.
THE BUSH-WIFE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Have you waited where the cross-roads meet ?
Have you listened for the creak of wheels
In the rustling of the wind-stirred wheat
Where the spirit of the south wind steals —-
For the waggons on their homeward way
By the long road out from town,
Coming over, rumbling over, as the hills are grow-
ing grey,
And the wintry sun goes down?
But lonely is the bush by day,
And silent is the bush by night,
With the horses and the men away,
And nothing but the trees in sight ;
Till the vigil where the cross-roads meet
And the ear all alert for wheels
Coming over, rumbling over, by fields of oats and
wheat
Where the spirit of the south wind steals.
You have left us to the hearth and the yard,
And burdened us with cares of home,
Shielded ns from bitter things and hard,
And kept us from the paths you roam ;
But loneliness stalks in by day,
And ghostliness abides by night,
Till sounds come drifting over from the wheels that
grind their way
Towards the haven of a window-light.
Have we failed in all your life-long need— •
Have we faltered on the stony road,
Though bare of any cult or creed,
Nor stayed by any cant or code?
But simple as the tufted nard
That roots upon the wasted loam,
We have won the cosy homestead from the bitter
things and hard,
And the lights that drag you home!
Have you lingered by the gaunt, grey boles,
Or hovered near the wheel-worn track,
To hearken for the dray that rolls
In grumblement its long way back?—
The harvest of our kindly seed—
Though thoughtless were the hands that sowed—
Shall succor you with comfort in your darkest hour
of need,
Who rumble down the home-bound road !
VICTORIA.
G. G. A. COLLES.
TO DESTROY DANDRUFF AND
MAKE THE HAIR GROW.
BY AN EMINENT SPECIALIST.
An eminent physician and specialist, w b
has for years made a study of scalp au
hair troubles, states that practically a
hair and scalp trouble is primarily due 0
the dandruff germ which eats into the hair
roots and gradually destroys their vita 1 )•
making the hair grow dry, grey am 1
less, until at last it falls out and total bald-
ness results. To destroy the dandiu gen
and restore the glossy softness and natuia
color of youth, he advises the reguhu ap
cation of a tonic which can be P l ! 1 v
any chemist at a small cost, consis ding
3 ounces of Bay Hum, 1 ou “£ e , l 7'rvstals;
Gomposee and | dram Menthol t . y
apply night and morning, rubbmg bus -
into the scalp and roots with the_ n
tips. Do not wet the hair more than
necessary. It won’t do any harm, h
there is no need to waste the tonic,
trouble—the dandruff germ—lies tll ,.
.roots, and cannot be cured by treating c
hair itself. The regular use of this
once a day not only keeps the hair eSt
glossy and luxuriant, but is also the u
preventive of all forms of scalp a
troubles. ~ . n : c
Tlic above is doubtless llie best hail - s
formula known. As a matter of t ac > „
so remarkably effective that it is V g
complete and ready for use under th
of Lavona Hair Tonic , and in that
sold ■ by leading chemists every wild e.


Public Safety demands
A<fectt/afeAutomobile
'Warning Signals
The Law should t prohibit their unnecessary use
The MOTORIST needs a war ning
signal.
He is continually confronted by
heedless, absent-minded, self-en-
grossed pedestrians.
These must be protected—often in
spite of themselves.
No matter how skillfully or care-
fully a car may be driven, occasions
frequently arise when the driver must
depend upon his warning signal to
insure the safety of those in front.
The signal should be adequate.
What is an “Adequate”
Signal ?
AN adequate signal must be capa-
jt\. ble of fulfilling its function under
all conditions that may arise.
It must produce a note of true
warning.
Jt must be loud. It must be heard
under all circumstances above the
noise of trams and traffic.
It must penetrate the thoughts of
absent-minded men, of heedless wo-
men, of playing children.
It must convey an unmistakable
expression of danger.
A Warning Signal
Should Warn
HE function of the warning
JL signal is not to please. It is
to warn. A warning is never pleas-
ant. A true warning note is dis-
cordant repel hint, rather than
attractive.
A musical note from an automo-
bile tells a falsehood to the pedes-
trian whom it is expected to warn.
It indicates no danger when danger
is imminent.
Klaxon, the Adequate
Signal
THE Klaxon is the adequate warn-
ing signal.
It is used throughout the world
on more than 200,000 motor cars.
Its note is one of true warning. It
is the result of a scientific study of
the sound characteristics of a true
warning.
: :
.
■
} m
IBHR
mm
V# 1
WE
Ilf
> rTk' HL />s
IK
*' 2~
Herald Square
New York
The note of the Klaxon is heard above the noise of the street traffic.
The Klaxon is especially necessary to warn around turns and
blind corners on country roads.
Its sound is unpleasant—purposely
so. It expresses —and is instinctively
understood as meaning DANGER.
The note of the Klaxon cuts through
every other noise.
It is heard and is heeded without
hesitation, without confusion. It
warns in time.
No twaddle, no useless tooting, no
silly scales. The Klaxon says, AUTO
COMING” “ LOOK OUT”
NOW!"
You hear —you act —you are safe.
The Law Should Stop
Unnecessary Noise
THE reckless and unnecessary
use of all automobile warning
signals is a nuisance.
There is no excuse for them,
except in their true function : as
learnings of danger.
The motorist, who by wanton
abuse makes a nuisance of what is
essentially and necessarily a public
safety device, should be punished
by law as a disturber of the peace.
How to Regulate Use of
Warning Signals
IN Europe and America the ques-
tion of legal regulation of auto-
mobile warning signals has been given
much attention.
Many cities have solved the prob-
lem satisfactorily bv enacting ordi-
nances making mandatory the use of
adequate signals; but prohibiting the
use of these except when they are
actually necessary.
These ordinances define an adequate
signal as one “Capable of producin'! ««
abrupt note, sufficiently loud to be heard
under all conditions of traffic.' ’
The enactment and enforcement of
these ordinances have prevented the
abuse of warning signals.
They have made warning signals
all the more effective when needed.
They have accomplished the sup-
pression of unnecessary noise without
at the same time sacrificing the safety
of the streets.
FURTHER information may be had by addressing any of the following Australian stockists of the Klaxon Sydney
Bennett & Wood, Ltd. Melbourne : Bennett Wood Roche, Pty., Ltd. Perth : Armstrong Cycle & Motor Agency. Melbourne
Duncan & Co., Pty., Ltd. Launceston: Sim King. Adelaide: Murray Aunger. Brisbane: E. G. Eager & Son, Ltd.
KLAXONET
LOVELL-McCONNELL MFG. CO., Export Office,
47 Broadway, New York, U. S. A. Factory, Newark, N. J.
KLAXON
“€>he PublicSafetySignat"
K LAXOS\3


£.500
for Happiness
Everybody’s doing it —everybody is being as Happy
as possible this Summer, and everybody is snapping
the jolliest, happiest pictures for the “ Happy
Moments ” competition.
Take yonr Kodak or Brownie with you and go after
one of these 116 prizes.
First Prize
£lOO.
If you are happy enough you might win the first
prize—there are 28 for Beginners onlv.
c
You need not be an expert in photography, in fact,
there’s no need to develop or print your pictures.
Just be Happy—that is the only thing that will count.
Get a free “Happy Moments” booklet from your
Kodak dealer and start right away to fill an album
with happy, jolly pictures.
4i
m
V*
' ' .Jr.., - '
•> ’SS*
Get Your Kodak To-day.
4 Holiday KodaKs
To be Had from all Kodak dealers.
A Kodak for 30-
Yest-pocket Kodak, the newest and smallest of the Kodaks, takes
pictures 21 xl§ inches ; tits the waistcoat pocket. “Always with you,
never in the way.” 30/-.
A Kodak for 50/-
No. la Folding Pocket Kodak takes pictures 41 x2l inches; springs
open in a second, ready for use without adjustment of any kind; a
very suitable Kodak for a lady’s use. Only 50/-
A Kodak for £3/12/6.
No. 3 Folding Pocket Kodak takes pictures x3l inches, the popu-
lar “quarter-plate” size, superior lens and shutter, a handsome
Kodak, covered with Seal-grain Leather. Price, £3/12/6.
A Kodak for £5/2/6.
No. 3a Folding Pocket Kodak takes pictures 51 x 3j inches ( postcard
size), excellent rapid rectilinear lens, focussing lock, rising
front, fitted with Kodak Automatic Shutter, £5/2/6.
And then for the children there are the Brownies, “little cousins of
the Kodak,” from 5/- to 50/-.
KODAK (Australasia) LTD
Incorporating Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd.
284 Collins Street
SYDNEY: 379 George Street.
MELBOURNE: "The Block,”
ADELAIDE: 37 Bundle Street.
BRISBANE: 78-80 Queen Street.
TOOWOOMBA : Ruthven Street.
TOWNSVILLE: Flinders Street.
ROCKHAMPTON: East Street.
BROKEN HILL: 346 Argent Street.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. : 3 Lome Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z. : 6 Mercer Street.
“C.O’H” : It looks as if the white ants have
gut into the Asquith Government at last.
After losing by-election after by-election for
two years (and there were a good many by-
elections in (hose two years) there came a
lull in these contests. Nobody died, or re-
signed, or took a Government job. Mean-
time the Liberal party and its allies and
half-allies, the Labor and Irish Nationalist
parties, found the current setting against
them in many directions. The outburst of
pacific talk from Winston Churchill was
received coldly, neither the British nor the
German people rising to the proposed “naval
holiday” idea of that clever self-advertiser.
Then, again, the alleged “land reform cam-
paign” of Lloyd George has fallen as flat
as a pancake. There seemed to be abso-
lutely no “pointer” to public feeling, unless
it lay in the reviving anti-Home Rule feeling
of Britain —a feeling carefully strengthened
by the CARSON-ites until, of late, it began
to assume formidable proportions. The
Asquith Government at last suspected that
there might be more behind the Belfast
blather than shows on the surface; and.it
either could not, or would not, interfere with
Carson, apparently being uncertain as to
the precise direction in which the wind was
blowing. Then the usual ballon d’essai
was sent up ; two by-elections were carefully
arranged, one English (Reading) and the
other Scottish (Linlithgow). The results
seem fairly conclusive. Rufus Isaacs,
now Lord Chief Justice of England, got in
out of the wet just in time, as the Unionist
won Reading back to the party, hands down,
Alexander Ure, the brilliant but unreliable
Solicitor-General, had had an enormous
majority in Linlithgow; and though the
Liberals retained the seat, they did it by a
mere 500 votes. There is no mistaking the
figures, as the Government chose its ground
and its time, and in each case suffered
severely. Consequently, the “conversations”
between the Devil and the Deep Sea will
be held forthwith, and the prospects of Home
Rule for Ireland on a wholesale scale are
less promising than they were. On the. other
hand, the prospects of Britain getting a
Tariff are much brighter, and Britain needs
a Tariff quite as much as Ireland needs
Home Rule.
“Don Q.”: Henry L. Stimson. in a recent
issue of Scribner’s Magazine, provided a
tough bit of pie for the next banquet of Aus-
tralia’s Peace Society. Reflecting on the risk
of not properly defending the Panama Canal,
Stimson (a former secretary of war to
Uncle Sam) put it this way:—
We could not afford to risk our national security
upon the faith that an international guarantee would
be stronger in our behalf, in some future crisis, than
it was, for instance, in 1793, when Prussia, after
having guaranteed only two years before the inde-
pendence of Poland, joined in the partition of
Poland; or in 1807, when Britain entered the harbor
of Copenhagen, belonging to a nation with which
she was at peace and under relations of amity, and
destroyed the Danish Fleet; or in 1904, when Japan,
after having guaranteed the independence of Korea,
violated the sanctity of the harbor of Chemulpho by
attacking there the Russian Fleet; or in 1908, when
Austria, after having signed the Treaty of Berlin in
1878, under the terms of which the political sover-
eignty of Bosnia and Herzegovina was given to
Turkey, turned around and herself annexed those two
principalities.
In short, treaties are the biggest liars in
history, and the nation that puts its trust in
the righteousness and apparent friendliness
of another nation had better start in to get
used to a thistle diet at once.
♦-
A snapshot from an Australian in Shang-
hai :
Although the election of Yuan Shih-k’ai to the
Presidency of the Chinese Republic was a foregone
conclusion, every other party, to save its face, put
forward a candidate. Even Sun Yat Sen, at present
outlawed in Japan, received 13 votes. Some gay
Parliamentary bloods voted for prominent courtesans
and well-known actresses of the capital, while notori-
ous rebels and children under age were among the
nominees. The balloting was secret and remarkably
shady-looking. To prevent a no-quorum situation,
the Chairman kept the members prisoners within the
Assembly for 12 hours; and it was well known that,
if the voting had gone against Yuan-Shih-k.'ai, troops
were ready to take forcible measures to correct the
voters’ point of view. The Chief of Mounted Police,
disagreeing with the decision, attended the inaugur-
ation ceremony with a bomb in his pocket, but was
intercepted. Immediately after the ceremony there
was an unseemly race between the various consulates
to present their Governments’ congratulations. Japan
won by a short head, with Paraguay or some other
similar world-power a good second. A representative
of the discarded Emperor presented an address that
read like a royal mandate, thereby saving the face of
the late dynasty, and earning the admiration of all
Chinese for bis adroitness. The President replied m
terms which a Prime Minister might have used to
his sovereign. Altogether, viewing the events of the
last two years, the Chinese republic may be con-
gratulated on having exchanged an hereditary despot-
ism for a military autocracy witli so little bloodshed.;
and while Yuan Siiih-k’ai remains upon his republi-
can throne, Young China may blow itself up with
badly-made bombs in the cause of freedom and the
rights of man, without seriously affecting the general
peace.
“One would not be very far from the truth
if one alleged that there are no good women
but those who have lived under the influence
of good men... .Unsatisfied sexuality is an
intellectual disability.”— Straight talk by
Sir Almroth Wright, London physician, to
spinster suffragettes.
Brief tale of legislative imbecility:—
In 1809 Victoria’s legislators passed a measure
vesting the control and management of Melbourne’s
playground, Studley Park, in trustees, to be ap-
pointed by Kew, Collingwood and Richmond councils.
The appointees met once, discovered that the law
which brought them into being made no provision
for abrogating the authority previously vested in
Kew Council, which body could still veto anything
the trustees might do, and declined to interest them-
selves in the matter further. So from that day to
this the park has been let go to Gehenna. Can you
beat it for casualness?
The sharpest thorn in the side of the S.A.
Ministry is Labor-member “Stonewall”
Jackson, who graduated, like Roberts,
M.H.IL. on the wharves at Port Pirie. He
is a tireless talker, quick at repartee, and
well up in awkward standing orders, for he
was Speaker during the regime of the
Yerran Government. Jackson can speak on
any subject for three or four hours without
turning a hair if lie so desires, and he enters
on an all-night sitting with joyful alacrity.
Ernest Rutherford, the brilliant young
Maorilander who is now a professor of phy-
sics in England, has been attracting the
attention of the celebrated Mme. Curie.
Recently she said: “I would advise England
to watch Dr. Rutherford. His work in
radio-activity has surprised me greatly.”
Anything calculated to greatly surprise
Curie in radio-activity can be taken as being
of the first scientific importance, Ruthei-
ford will attend the forthcoming science
Congress in Australia.
From the Office Philosopher:—
A horrified English dean has been telling a gram-
mar school that the sth Commandment is changed
nowadays to “Honor thy son and thy daughter. A
conservative church dignitary necessarily hangs on
to the ancient doctrine that parents should be rever-
enced, as parents, by their olfspring. It is time the
commandment was cast on the rubbish heap.
dren owe their parents just as much respect or dis-
respect as those parents have earned. No honor is
otherwise due from them to the other party. But
the begetters are at least under some sort of natural
obligation to the begotten; and while dad and
mother may reasonably feel ashamed of highly in-
ferior offspring, son and daughter have no just cause
to blush for mother and dad in any case.
Died lately in London, at the early age
of 46, Frederic Forbes Ross, surgeon and
pathologist, who last year created a mild
sensation by declaring that the increase of
cancer was due to lack of potassium salts
in the body. The deficiency was due, he
said, to modern milling and cooking, which
eliminated this alkali from the food. His
theory was that cancer was due to “Peter
Pan” cells, which did not grow old and die
so that they could be eliminated. . Apart
from his cancer researches. Ross did good
work as the inventor of half a dozen useful
and humane surgical instruments; so, one
way and another, there should be a place for
him in Valhalla.
“U.S.” on a new summer resort: —
A Russian Polar expedition, under Commander
Wilkitzky, of the Czar’s navy, steamed into St.
Michael, Alaska, a few weeks ago (October 11), with
intelligence of the discovery of a new land believed
to be as large as Greenland. It begins about 500
miles north of Western Siberia, and is the last great
discovery of land possible on the globe. The Russians
claim to have beaten a Canadian expedition, under
Stefansson, as Amundsen beat Scott. The new terri-
tory is christened Nicholas Land. It is rocky, with
high, abrupt cliffs, and has evidently seen great vol-
canic activity. Many high peaks were discernible
inland: one, with vapor rising from the crown, might
be an active volcano, like Erebus. Reindeer, walrus
and Polar bears seem to be the principal inhabitants.
Though the man at the beer-pump mostly
has too much say in Westralia, the presence
of well-organised Labor bodies has compelled
him to manage without Asiatic cooks and
laundry-men. At Fremantle not a single
Jap or Chow is employed about a pub. The
lumpers look to things there. In the whole
of Perth, only 12 of Bruce Smith’s brothers
toil on licensed premises. Needless to say,
on the Eastern goldfields no Bung dares to
employ colored labor. In fact, of late years,
only one publican tried the dodge, and the
pub did not keep him very long. Labor’s
methods in this matter are very simple: it
refuses to drink the offender’s beer, and thus
hits him in his most vital part.
Another grand old institution is threatened
in Sydney. That is the everlasting tearing
up of the streets. They do it this way. The
Water and Sewerage people come along
and drag the wood-blocking up by the roots,
and rend the pavement amidst the out-
rageous language of vehicle-drivers, foot-
passengers and shopkeepers. After a time
the blocks are put down again, and peace
descends. But it only remains until the
gas co.’s contingent arrives to deal with
its mains. After that the telephone people
and the hydraulic power people and th
electric light people have their say 'p
Woollahra Municipal Council has got hVj
of it all and . for a start ha s .dg
owners ot premises individually to examin
their gas and water services and make
that no early displacement of the np
wood-blocking of Oxford-street will be
sary And as he is gently informed
that the fees for opening the street, plug ti,!
cost of restoring the woodblocks, will he
serious, the Woollahra landlord is likely t
think hard over the advice.
From a pilgrim :
We good Australian Catholics make a point of inter
viewing Cardinal Merry Del Val, the Papal Chancellor
or Prime Minister in Rome. He talks English T
well as the German Emperor, and no wonder for h
was educated in England. As a very young man
before commencing his vocation, he was distinguished
both as hunter and dancer. Being a Spaniard h
can never aspire to be Pope. He talks of English
literature—of Tennyson, Shakspeare, Macaulay Gih
bon, Scott, Dickens, and so forth; regrets that he
has so little time to read ; has to glean from a few
select Italian, French, German, Belgian, English
American and Spanish newspapers. But, above all he
likes interviewing people; they bring hi m f
breezes from all points of the compass. He turns the
interviewer inside out; gets all; gives nothing
Even an Australian has a sucked-orange feeling as
he leaves. The Chancellor does not know whether
Cardinal Moran tried to persuade both Leo and Pi UB
to allow him to stay in Rome. Says the interviewer’
“I will not venture to ask your Eminence whether
Cardinal Rampolla would have been Pope but for
the Austrian Emperor.” Del Val: “Thanks, my
brother ; you must take Dante’s advice, and pay no
attention to the whisperings. Here is the Indf,-
pendance Bulge, said to be the best-informed paper
about the Vatican. I assure you it knows far more
about me than I know myself.”
“D. 8.” : Ballan (Vic.) had until recently
eight claims to distinction possessed by few
townships of 300 inhabitants. Seven
of these claims were pubs, and it is
significant of what the Licenses Reduction
Board is doing in Victoria that four of them
have already been closed. The eighth claim
to distinction was a curious old mill with a
habit of kicking its proprietor. This mill
was put up in the ’fifties by the Young
brothers, from Northumberland, and was a
creditable freestone structure of three storeys.
Flour was ground there for many years be-
tween three old-fashioned stones driven by
water led three-quarters of a mile from the
fast-dwindling Werribee ; indeed, one of the
“mills” and the water-wheel were in occa-
sional use to the end, which came in 1909,
Though the mill was in . different hands, it
w r as always run by relatives or connections
of the original owners. Nathaniel Young
narrowly escaped death at the building; and
Dodds, a brother-in-law, who was the next
owner, was killed in a boiler explosion that
could much more easily have killed three
other men whom it left unharmed. The mill
then came into the hands of another brother-
in-law of the Youngs, Walter Duncan, after-
wards M.L.A. He signalised his purchase
by having two fingers jambed off. One of
his sons presently suffered half that cala-
mity. Another brother-in-law, W. E. White,
next came into possession, and twice got off
with his life by the skin of his teeth. The
last kick registered was on the grand-nephew
of the builders (me), who lost an arm.
Then, in 1909, the Devil called his servant
home in a smother of fire and smoke.


A dream of
thuist.
I®L«'
l&j-*
sd
<s>
'The
M o - v»vce=:^<s^=.
<D
W*» Boss
Hlf*\
Tract he
V\NS Mo
HVSH. 'poß.
HUS SBRV-
"Vo
the
SLACVCMESS.
'Tr.a.oh. .
Ns /VQooT fs , i\.
So o '* To \p\t-t.o fXvNrs.
S\X" - QV^<3
SBOf,
/ Ax I>R^V<
/g) OR Tv-ro '**
' op- -XH<S=L V.ASW
NocA<aS£Q op L«-tfJ SES
E*v*Vlc*Q vr» TAt
COHXwkIE .
V.'CEf*S^S
£L£cToß*Te &S REPU^
t '-osTe "Wtr r lO
uc&*s« «
of O’E'w'vV.S ,
$> _
VvUgtm.
s.
-^o
A s^c > tr ’ s - 'Tca^
L l < .


JEWELLERY.
25/-
30
Lailv’s Solid Silver Hunting
Keyless Lever WATCH, -5 -
plate, full jewelled, patent ad-
justed balance, 25/-
Iligher grade: 30/-, 35/-,
40/-
Solid Cold: £3, £3/10/-,
£4,
9ct. Gold BROOCH, set Pearls and
Red or Green Stones, 25/-
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting Keyless
Lever WATCH, non-magnetic, full-
jewelled patent time-spring, compensa-
tion balance, dustproof cases, 30/-
Extra jewelled, 35/-, £2, £2/10/-,
£3, up to £lO. Gold Filled, 55/-,
£4/4/-, £5/5/-; Solid Gold,
£B/10/-, £lO.
30
35 1-
MSUunders’
SYDNEYS LEADING JEWELLER
XMAS GIFTS IN JEWELLERY.
We would like you to see the thousands of other beautiful selections in our
Xmas Gift Book. Do let us send you a copy—it is free.
9ct. Gold LINKS, any in-
itials engraved, 20/-
9ct. Gold EARRINGS,
set Pearls and Ame-
thysts, or Red Stones,
22/6.
15ct. Gold PENDANT, set
pure double-cut Diamonds
and Rubies, Aquamarines
or Tourmalines,
£B/10/-
18ct. Gold, set 5
pure double-cut
Diamonds, £25.
18ct. Gold, set S
large, double-cut
Diamonds, £lO.
1 Set. Gold PENDANT, set
pure double-cut Diamonds,
and Tourmalines or Aqua-
marines, £l2/10/-
15ct. Gold BROOCH, set pure double-cut Diamond,
£7/10/- With larger Diamond, £lO, £l5,
£2O, £3O.
Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding AVATCH
BRACELET, full jewelled, lever movement,
accurate, reliable, £5.
Higher grade: £5/10/-, £6/10/-
- ""S'W
9ct. Gold Half-Round
£2, £2/10/-, £3.
BRACELET, richly chased,
15ct. Gold, £4, £4/10/-,
£5.
15et Gold EARRINGS,
pure double-out Dia-
mond Cluster and
Drops, £l5, £2O,
£25, £BO.
18ct. Gold, all Dia-
mond CLUSTER,
£25.
18ct. Gold, set 5
pure, double-cut
Diamonds, £5.
JEWELLERY.
Oct. Gold LINKS,
set Red or Blue
Stone, 22/6.
15ct. Gold, £2.
m
Oct. Gold LOCKET,
richly engraved,
22/6.
8/6
10|.
Lady's Black Open Face Key-
less WATCH, full jewelled,
dust- and water-proof cases;
accurate, reliable,
10/-
Higher grade: 15/-, 20/-
25/-, 30/-
9ct. Gold BROOc.i, set Pearls and
Garnets, 12/6.
Gent.’s Nickel Open Face Keyless
LEVER, full jewelled, patent adjusted
balance, non-magnetic time-spring, dust-
and water-proof cases: 12/6, 157-
Higher grades: 20/-, 25/-, 30/-
1216
15/-
807-817 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Study Your
Voice as you
use it in
Singing.
The Edison Phonograph and Home Recording Outfit afford you the oppor-
tunity to record your own voice or the voices of your friends. It is done
with as much ease as speaking into a telephone.
When you hear another person sing, you are conscious of the faults in that
person's voice and method, although you may not have sufficient knowledge
to clearly define the faults you detect.
With this outfit you can detach yourself from your own voice, and thus you
are afforded a chance to study faults in your own voice, and eventually to
eliminate them.
To Hear Ourselves
As Others Hear Us.
This is the title of our new booklet—or “The Modern Blarney Stone” —and
it sets out the various advantages which result from the study of your
own voice on the Edison Phonograph.
A perusal of its pages is commended to those who sing, whether profession-
ally or merely for the edification of themselves and their friends; to teachers
of music, composers, lawyers, clergymen, actors and actresses, lecturers,
political students and speakers, business executives, salesmen and sales-
women, young people generally, and to all hostesses. To the latter it will
suggest a variety of games both novel and entertaining—games in which
the Edison Phonograph plays the chief part.
Send your name and address to-day for a free copy of this grand little
booklet, and we will forward it to you by return mail.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale only), Dept. 8., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
Stop Pulling' Out Hair.
I will Permanently and Painlessly Remove
Your Superfluous Hair by My Harmless
Secret Method.
I WAS deeply humiliated by a growth of
superfluous hair on my face, neck and
arms, which seemed to steadily increase
and become more hideous as I grew older.
I tried many advertised remedies; but
found to my sorrow that if they removed the
hair at all it was for a short time only, and
the hairs soon reappeared, stronger and
thicker than ever. Even the electric needle
was tried upon my skin, and I endured a
great deal of pain from its use, but simply
met with disappointment. I then resorted
superfluous hair returned, I realised that I
had truly made a most marvellous discovery.
The wonderful transformation in my appear-
ance caused comment among my friends, anti
they thought that a veritable miracle had
been wrought. When I divulged to them
the secret I had discovered, they tried the
same method on their own skins, with equally
effective and permanent results, They told
me that in guarding this secret I was with-
holding a great boon from womankind, and
urged that I should tell others, so that all
to pulling the hairs
out by the roots,
only to find that
several new hairs
appeared for every
'one I pulled. I
had spent so much
time and money on
these various me-
thods that I was in
despair and almost
ready to give up,
thinking that I
must suffer for
ever from this ter-
rible affliction. It
was then that I
learned by chance
of a plan by which
the ladies of An-
cient Rome had
rid themselves for
ever of superfluous
hair. With this
idea in mind, I be-
gan a series of
careful experiments
in an effort to
wrest this hidden
secret from the
past. At last my
efforts were
Wm
m
tr;
pf -/
f -/1
•:\
ipK
AJS
afflicted women
might benefit by
my discovery. One
of the most emi-
nent chemists of
Paris examined the
treatment and gave
it the highest en-
dorsement. Mad-
ame M. Suchard,
C h e v aigne .- par-
Javron, Mayenne,
used this method
some time ago, and
now says: “Your
treatment is mar-
vellous, because it
is permanent. M>
skin has remained
smooth and white,
without a shade of
superfluous hair.
I have never
known this IP '
markable process
to fail, but you
can judge for
yourselves of lts
seemingly miracu-
lous power. I wlll
gladly send fur-
ther particulars
Stop pulling out hair. It hurts terribly,
and two new hairs trill grow for every one
you pull.
crowned with success, for I discovered a
means entirely different from anything I
had ever before seen. I used it on my own
skin, and it quickly removed all my super-
fluous hair without the slightest vestige of
pain or discomfort. I was delighted; but
feared that some signs of the hair might re-
turn. After a few weeks had passed I
noticed that my skin still remained clear,
soft and white, and as the months slipped
by, and not the slightest trace of the hated
under plain sealed envelope, absolutely f •
to any lady afflicted with supernuou
on her face, neck, arms or bodj, rpa t
the demands on my time are so 8
that this offer is limited t0 K - a u I rvn
days only. Simply address, i oa Oxford
B. Firmin (Dept. 631 L), 133 Oxlora
Street, London, W.. Eng., enclosing
penny stamp for postage, and you w
ceive this valuable information by i'etu
post.


Public Notice.
THE patentee of Australian Patent No. 12755 of
12th October, 1908 (Dr. .John Alton Harriss),
for “Improvements in Mail Receiving and Delivering
Apparatus,” is prepared to enter into negotiation for
and to complete arrangements by way of license or
otherwise on reasonable terms with any persons desir-
ing to exploit or to adopt and carry on such inven-
tion in Australia.
Inquiries to be addressed to W. J. SPRUSON,
Patent Attorney, 91 Elizabeth Street, Sydney, New
South Wales.
Business Notices.
Freedom, Ease $ Comfort
The ...
WELMAR
'Si
Shirt
Pat. 1274
24/5/’ll.
Stocked by
Leading
Mercers and
Outfitters.
Manufactured by
Welch, Margetson 8 Co.
Pty. Ltd.
f 3 * ;
Wivv]
A.A
CLIP
JUST TWIST—
AND IT’S FILLED.
It’s as easy as winding your watch.
For years the “A.A.” Self-Filler
has been giving universal satisfac-
tion. It can be filled from an ink-,
stand, ink-well or bottle by simply
twisting the button. It’s cleaned
in the same way, and it will not
leak or blot.
“A.A.” PEN PERFECTION is
rigidly maintained by
ARTHUR A. WATERMAN
& CO.,
22 THAMES STREET, N.Y. CITY.
Their pens are made
entirely in their own
factory from the best
materials obtainable, and
their guarantee fully
covers every part of the
“A.A.” pen, from the
iridium tipped gold pen-
point to the “A.A.” clip
on the cap.
If you cannot secure the
“A.A.” Self-Filling Foun-
tain Pen with the “A.A.”
Clip at your store write
for prices to
RYAN, LEWIS 8 CO.
PTY., LTD.,
521 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne,
Sole Agents for Australia
and New Zealand.
NOT CONNECTED WITH THE
L. E. WATERMAN COMPANY.
Concertinas
By LACHENAL & CO., LONDON.
No. 1.
English Concertina,
mahogany tops, 20 bone
keys, 5-fold bellows, yellow
metal reeds; complete in
wooden box, with lock and
key, 45/-, post free.
No. 2.
English Concertina,
mahogany tops, 20 bone
keys, 5-fold bellows, steel
reeds; complete in wooden
box, with lock and key,
55/-, post free.
No. 3.
English Concertina,
rosewood tops, 5-fold bel-
lows, 20 bone keys, newly-
improved action steel reeds.
In mahogany case, with lock
and key, £4/10/-, post free.
Postage Paid to Any Address
in the Commonwealth.
A. P. SYKES,
272 Little Collins-slrect,
MELBOURNE. °
Two DOO«S FROM C
ttAD*
MORE PLEASURE TO A GREATER
NUMBER AND FOR A LONGER TIME
will be secured by the money invested in a
REXOPHONE
than by the same amount of
money spent in
ANY OTHER
WAY.
70A
m
The great and
regular increase in
the sale of Rexophones
emphasises the excellence of
these machines. From the popular
“BUTE," at 37 6, to the “YORK,"
at £B, they represent Quality and Value.
It is not alone the price that makes the Rexo-
phone attractive. The Tone it possesses the vast
amount of permanent satisfaction it gives make it a
lasting pleasure.
For the reproduction of the human voice or instrumental music, the
Rexophone is now universally acknowledged to be the best in Australia.
Clear, Mellow, Powerful, and with a freedom from the defects of earlier
instruments of this class, Rexophones make ideal instruments for the
home. Rexophone Records excel all others in perfection of recording,
quality of manufacture and durability. We invite comparison with
any other make at any price.
The Rexophone Records for November are now ready. They include
items by Billy Williams, Stanley Kirkby, Jessie Broughton, Oily Oakley,
Guido Gialdini, The Cathedral Quartette, and other Popular Artists.
| WRITE FOR OUR COMPLETE CATALOGUE, j
JACKSON &. MACDONALD,
457 KENT STREET (Corner Druitt Street), SYDNEY.
STEWART DAWSON’S
For Useful and Beautiful Gifts
The Gift of a useful article —such as one of these effective Candlc-
sticks—is a wise act. It has all the decorative effect of an ornament,
together with the usefulness that makes it of permanent value. We
arc the actual Manufacturers, and sell to you at FIRST COS'l
PRICES.
(J«: 13.—Finest Quality
Silver Plated CANDLE
STICK, 5 inches high.
22 6
No. 353. —Silver Plated
Chamber CANDLE-
STICK.
8/0
06312.—01 d Sheffield Die
N.'ve;' Plated CANDLE-
STICK, 31 inches high,
15-
G5ll8 —Silver Plated
CANDLESTICK, Thistle
Desiprn,
13/0 pair.
We have an Extensive Stock of Gift Jewellery and Plate embody-
ing Australasian Designs. Write for Souvenir Catalogue. |
Strand Corner, 412 George St., Sydney.
AUSTRALIA: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND: Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin.
LONDON: 73 to 81 Regent Street, W.; and 19 to 21 Hatton Garden. E.C.
Q
1.73/6
Ijegal Notices.
In the Supreme Court of New Zealand.
Wellington District.
IN THE MATTER of The Trustee
Act, 1908, and
IN THE MATTER of The Public
Trust Office Act, 1908 ; and
IN THE MATTER of the estate of
George Tuck well formerly of Wel-
lington in the Dominion of New
Zealand but latterly of Sydney and
Cobar in the State of New South
Wales in the Commonwealth of
Australia, Laborer, deceased.
PURSUANT to an Order made by His
Honor Mr. Justice Cooper under Sec-
tion 74 of the Trustee Act, 1908, on the
second day of August, 1913, in the matter of
the above estate all creditors and others
(INCLUDING THEREIN THOSE
CLAIMING AS NEXT OF KIN OF THE
SAID GEORGE TUCKWELL) having
claims against the estate of the said de-
ceased are required to send in their claims
to The Public Trustee, Wellington, New
Zealand, on or before the 31st May, 1914.
and in default of any such claims The
Public Trustee will on the last mentioned
date proceed to distribute the assets of the
said deceased having regard only to the
claims of which he shall then have notice.
DATED at Wellington, New Zealand,
this 2nd day of August. 1913.
.T. W. MACDONALD,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office.
NOTEThe said George Tuckwell was
by an Order of the said Court on the 23rd
March. 1911, presumed to be dead. He was
a native of Wellington and left to reside in
New South Wales. Claimants must for-
ward full particulars of the parents of the
said George Tuckwell, his brothers and
sisters, the date of his birth and a resume of
his life, which information will be checked
with the true facts in the possession of The
Public Trust Office.
CITATION.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF SOUTH
AFRICA.
WITWATERSRAND LOCAL DIVISION.
To MARY DEAN STOKES, formerly
of Sydney, Australia, but whose present
address is unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that, by Citation issued
and now filed in this office,' you have been
cited to cause an appearance to be entered
at the office of the Registrar of the Supreme
Court of South Africa, Witwatersrand Local
Division, on or before the second day of
January, 1914, in an action to be heard in
the above-named Court at Johannesburg.
Transvaal, in which JAMES EDWARD
STOKES, your husband, claims: —
A. Divorce by reason of your malicious
desertion.
B. Custody of the minor child.
C. Forfeiture of benefits of the marriage.
D. Costs of suit.
FURTHER take notice that in default
of your appearance the action will be pro-
ceeded with and judgment granted against
you without further notice.
Thus done and granted in the said Court
at Johannesburg on this the second day of
October, 1913.
(Signed) M. C, CLOETE,
Assistant Registrar.
(Signed) F. lIUMMELEN,
Plaintiff’s Attorney,
Colonial Mutual Chambers, Johannesburg.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF QUEENSLAND.
To JOHN EDWARD NEWELL BULL,
formerly of Gympie, Queensland, late of
No. 126 Elswick Street, Leichhardt, Syd-
ney, passing under the name of George
Cadman, last heard of in New Zealand.
TAKE NOTICE that a decree nisi for
the dissolution of your marriage with Emily
Annie Bull was made by the Chief Justice
of Queensland at Brisbane on the four-
teenth day of November, 1913. Such decree
nisi will be moved absolute unless cause is
shown to the Court to the contrary within
six months f»*om that date. IT WAS
ORDERED .hat costs of the action should
be paid by you.
You are to take notice accordingly.
DATED this twenty-first day of Novem-
ber, 1913.
F. B. SYKES,
Solicitor for the plaintiff, Gympie.
Brisbane Agents:
Nicol, Robinson, Fox & Edwards,
Solicitors,
272 Queen Street, BRISBANE.
Business Notices.
THIS MEDICI/NE CHEST
SttOULD BE ICS YOOR HOME
For the Bush Home, where'
the medical man may be mile
way. a Medicine Chest is ofter
e means of saving life. It certainly
s away with calling in a doctor for
minor ailments. We pack a chest con-
aining a remedy for all ordinary illnesses
nd accidents of life, prepared by a legally
d chemist according to the directions
ding physician. THERE ARE 25 REME-
Liniments and Washes for Sprains and
... Ointments for external application:
licines and Powders for internal taking,
ull supply of Lints. Plasters. Bandages
Mind there is no quackery about this
any open minded doctor to whom
you show it will approve of it. Packed
jlly & sent to any address in
monwcalth for Carriage Paid^
FRtf OFFER-The
Home Medical Book
sent Post Free.
[the HOME medicine supply
PETRIES BIGHT aRISBMIE
qual
of a
DIES
Rrui
Med
Chest.
25/
THE Australian Magazine. THE LONE
HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d.


THREE CHEERS!!
Haig 8 Haig Scots Whisky
(ESTABLISHED 1679.)
Franz Josef Lager Beer
Hackerbrau Dark Lager
TRY
■JS-A-W-F-O-M
PURE SCOTCH
W-M-E-S-K-Y.
THE CHOICE OF CONNOISSEURS
POLITICAL
POINTS
N.S.W. Treasurer Cann, making excuses
tor the 4j per cent, which the Government
has just pledged the country to pay for a
short-dated loan, mentions that other coun-
tries are paying a high rate of interest, too.
in other words, money is scarce and dear at
the moment; hence it is a bad time to bor-
row. I>resuma Wy it is on this account that
the Government announces that it will bor-
row harder than ever, if it can. The
lunatic generally does get in at the top of
the market.
If,” said the S. M. Herald one day last
week, “there remain in this continent any
sceptics, as to the necessity of ihe White
Australia policy, the events that are hap-
pening in Natal ought to convince them.”
Ihe Bulletin, of course, welcomes Ihe
I-lerald to the ranks of White Australia
enthusiasts. The trouble is that quite a
lot of enthusiasts seem to think the best
way to keep Australia white is to abuse
those who oppose the introduction of spots
of soot. Has the Herald, for instance
ever heard of the Petriana or Mrs. Poori
Gooey V
THE DECOY.
Under the Consolidating District Councils
Bill before the S.A. Parliament, ministers
of religion, stipendiary magistrates, uncer-
tificated insolvents and women are disquali-
fied from becoming members or clerks. Labor
members are trying to give the women a
chance to sit if the ratepayers so desire, and
they wouldn’t have any difficulty in carry-
ing the point if the shrieking sisterhood of
English suffragettes hadn’t prejudiced the
case for the sex.
There were good points about the N.S.W.
Government s Daceyville housing scheme;
yet even here rotten methods of finance
were adopted. For instance, the rent is
calculated so as to pay the interest and pro-
vide a fund for the return of the capital;
but the calculations are based on the not
too substantia] premises bringing in the
same rent for 50 years. And in the begin-
ning, at any rate, the rents were fixed on the
assumption that throughout the 50 years
there never would be a single bad debt, and
that the houses would never be empty for
so much as a day.
Though it doesn't rush the job, the gradu-
ated land tax is doing its work all right.
In Victoria between 1910 and 1913 holdings
of from 601 to 640 acres increased by 52
per cent., those between 640 acres and 700
acres by 38 per cent., and between 700 and
800_acres by 28 per cent.; while there was
a 27 per cent, reduction in big estates of
from 30,000 to 40,000 acres. 40 per cent, in
those from 40,000 to 50,000 acres, and 50
per cent, in principalities of more than
50,000 acres. In 1910 there were 96 squat-
tages of more than 15.000 acres apiece;
now there are only 73. On the other hand,
of “living areas” of from 500 to 1000 acres
there were 8216 in 1910; now there are
19b5 more, while the growth of small farms
—many of them irrigated—has been far
greater even than that.
The first Act signed by the Governor-in-
Council in N.S.W., under the reformed Con-
stitution of 1824 was one to regulate the
payment of promissory notes. The lOU
habit prevailed widely at that early date,
and probably laid the foundation of the Aus-
tralian tendency to go into pawn. In 1824
various currencies were in operation, the
chief outside of English sterling being
Spanish dollars; and the before-mentioned
Act was passed to make a dollar lOU as
available as if the note had been drawn
payable in sterling money.
LIQUID LURES.
One speaker said it looked as if a distinct attempt
were being made to make the northern suburbs resi-
dents heavy imbibers of alcoholic liquors. Outside
the Circular Quay wharves liquor advertisements
flashed from the top of the buildings, and upon
entering the cabins and the decks of the steamers
they met one at every point.— Report of a Sydney
northern suburban deputation against liquor advt's
on ferryboats.
The latest and most dastardly ruse of the Liquor
Party—the atcoholised poster!
What ingenuous folk these Lib-
erals are! Recently the Ballarat
branch of the People’s Party heaved
at W illy Watt a resolution, alleg-
edly typical of the general opinion
of over 400 other branches, “pro-
testing against the proposed in-
crease of members in the State
Parliament.” If the branch had
any nous it would have stopped
there, but it hadn’t. It went on—
“particularly as regards the metro-
politan area and Wonthaggi.”
Exactly! It is undesirable and
unnecessary to raise the numbers
of State members, but, if there
must be an increase, the farmer,
who already has If votes to the
city toiler’s one, should have
another member or two. As for
W onthaggi, the idea of giving the Socialistic
miners the representation they are entitled
to is manifestly immoral.
N. S. Wales raised money on Treasury
Bills at 3i per cent, in the middle of last
ear. The money market has been easing
lately—easing so much that large sums have
been sent from Australia and lodged on
deposit in London banks. Yet, in spite of
that easing, so hopeless is the Ilolman
Government’s finance, that it has now bad
to pay 4j per cent, in order to get money.
ra th er , the people do the paying while
W illy Ilolman and his colleagues have the
time of their lives.
John Verran’s speeches were a constant
source of joy when he was Premier of S.
Aus.; but for lucidity and simple beauty
even John’s language can’t beat present
Premier Peake’s. For example, on Novem-
ber 19:—
Many mistakes have been made in the past on the
S.A. coast in placing the places of seaports, and it
has often been found that some other place is where
these places ought to have been.
What really is the matter, as Peake meant
to explain, is that at many of the outports
a jetty was put in shallow water, and a
second has had to be built when decent-sized
vessels began to push into the trade.
The death of Speaker George Davies may
upset the political pot in Tasmania. Before
he died there were 10 Liberals and 14 Lab-
ourites in the Assembly. At last State elec-
tion the Liberals secured a majority of the
total votes in Denison, but at the Federal
election Laird Smith (Labor) was returned
by a substantial majority. The Labor party
will now probably run Sheridan for the
State seat, and he is likely to be elected —
and then the parties will be equal. After
that nothing but a general-election scramble
seems possible, with no certainty that things
will be any better when it is finished.
How different it is with the Labor party! We
don’t hear of any Independent Labor candidates.—
S. M. Herald, 18/11/’l3, Page 12.
Woollahra is one of those seats in which the vote-
splitter has made his presence felt. Both parties-
have to contend against a man independent of the
official selection of the party organisation. The
Independent Labor candidate,' Rev. F. B. Cowling,
is the minister in charge of the Woollahra Congrega-
tional Church. He stood at last Federal election as
a selected Labor candidate, and polled a substantial
vote.—S. M. Herald, 18/11/13, Page 11.
Thus does the fine old sheet fulfil the Scrip-
tural injunction not to let its left hand know
the lies that its right hand telleth.
McLinen, whose speeches used to have
the merit of being at least neatly folded,
appears to be falling into bargain-counter
slovenliness. The other night, at North
Sydney, several women, energetic workers
for his return to Parliament, delivered ad-
dresses brimful of political adulation of the
glossy draper. And how did McLinen re-
spond? According to the Daily Tele-
gkapii, “referring to the big part women
were taking in public life, he spoke of the
necessity for their political education.” It
looked very much like a hint to the ladies
that they were supporting him (McLinen)
because they didn’t know any better.
David Fell, the accountant who is drop-
ping out of N.S.W. politics, has given his
idea of the financial position. Though he
thinks the Labor Government is riding to
the Devil, he believes that the State is some
distance yet from perdition. The weak
point about Fell’s analysis was that it
dealt mainly with the average figures of
the Labor Government’s three years of
office. At the beginning, the Government,
sticking more or less. to the Labor plat-
form, didn’t do anything very outrageous;
but it soon threw the Labor platform over-
board, and, on the word of its own Govern-
ment Statist, rushed the loan expenditure
along m this mad fashion :
£3,921,758
5,491,103
And it says frankly that it is going to have
a wilder jag than that, if the State will
stand it. In these circumstances it is
simply worse than useless to talk about
averages. The Government doesn’t propose
to get back to its average. It proposes to
out-do its worst; and on that it has to be
judged.
The way the S. M. Herald put it:—
Invitations were issued to an At Home for the
purpose of meeting and welcoming to Sydney, after
their Continental tour, the members of the Lucas-
Tooth family.
“After their Continental tour” is good. The
alleged tour has lasted, roughly, a quarter
of a century. In the course of it the voy-
agers have picked up a house in Queen’s
Gate, London, and an estate in Hereford-
shire In fact, as a tour, it is only com-
parable for length, comprehensiveness, etc.,
with that of the Coopers, who are also back
in their native land once more. When, by
the way, is one of the golf clubs going to
give an At Home in honor of the Fisher
Government, whose land-tax legislation has
brought so many of these tours to an end,
and so caused additional thousands sterling
to be circulated here instead of in Britain?
From an old Gallery hand :
The reference (B. 13/11/’l3) to the fact that
George Reid is the sole survivor of the members of
the first Ministry with which he was associated
suggests inquiry as to how he stands in respect to
the members of the last. He was then fPrime Minis-
ter with McLean ; and although some of the mem-
bers of that Cabinet are still alive, their glorv has
, Po ° r McLean is underground. Sydnev
Smith is futilely scanning .the horizon for an opening
in Federal or State Parliament, and it looks as if
he will have to rest satisfied with membership of a
borough council. Dugald Thomson found the Ex-
change more suited to his tastes than lawmaking,
and threw politics overboard. George Turner dropped
them and they dropped Drake; both are now
satisfied to be unostentatious limbs of the law one
pottering in Melbourne and the other in Qu’eens-
land. Josiah Symon and McCay are down and out.
But George, with the knack, is still on top, not a
Federal Parliamentarian, but something higher—the
Australian Parliament’s representative facing the
world. Either George is the luckiest of men or there
is something about him which causes ill-luck to his
associates.
F.C : The tactics of Federal Labor
Opposition have been poor all through
seems to me. Let McGrath apologise ana
let the rest of the party stick to tH
duties, and the end should come in no i!
With Alligator Johnson as Speaker, the two
parties number 37 each; it is obvious theS
fore, that if Cook wishes to force anv k„ 0 -
ness through the House he can only do so
by the Speakers casting vote. The conn
try would soon realise that it ?, Un "
being run by the Speaker alone; and"
it wouldn’t stand that long. Of
there is the possibility of the Fisher nart*
not wanting a dissolution. In that case i?
tactics are excellent, and I take back all t
said to the contrary. 1
A MAN OF GREAT CAPACITY .
The High Commissioner was in consultation with
the Minister for External Affairs for hours. Mr
Glynn stated subsequently: “We discussed matters
relating to the office of High Commissioner in Eng
land, involving points which have to be directly
dealt with.” Before Mr. Reid leaves for England
the Minister will go into these questions with him
again.
GEORGE: “ There’s much to be eaten, Paddy-
and, as far as I can see, the most suitable
man for my successor is me.”
It is 41 years since N. S. Wales paid so
much for a loan as the Holman Government
had to pay to get the £2,000,000 raised in
London last week.
A TRAGIC MOMENT.
OUR OLD FRIEND (in anguish): “Oh, that
them dear old tunes should so tear [?]
'eart-strings— an 'im standin' there in
that disreputable costoom!”
LINKS ADDRESSED TO AN INFANT BORN IN
N. S. WALES IN 1913.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Welcome, little stranger! It’s no fault of yours
That you did not sooner reach these happy shores;
Anyway, you’re welcome, darling little pet!
For the next seventy years (let’s hope eighty) you
will be able to carry, hump, or assume your
share—about £7o—of the Ma State’s Debt!
Smile, sweet popsy-wopsy, smile and show your
gums ;
You’re sufficient warrant for substantial sums!
Wave your little fists, dear; moan your plaintive goo ;
Feeble, flabby, weak and altogether absurd as you
are, you reach us trailing, not clouds of g'.orv,
but an IOU!
Dribble, petsy, dribble! Uncle’s standing near,
With a pretty rattle for his nephew dear!
See, the glitter of it as he softly calls:
“Veil, mine leedle poy, you vos eager to gedt it
undt play mit it, vosn’t idt; dot rattle 'mil. de
tree gotten palls?”
Do not wail, my baby! Father’s coming soon ;
He and Mister Griffith meet this afternoon ;
They are just arranging for a mighty loan
You will pay for, darling—or if not you. your grand-
son. So, please do not take that fractious and
querulous tone!
Why that squirm, my baby? Surely nothing’s
wrong?
You 11 live to be eighty—that’s not very long!
And the loan Dad’s raising, with kind Uncle’s help,
For dear Mister Griffith, and honest Mister Holman,
and good Mr. McGowen and the others to spend,
may live to be one-hundred-and-eighty. So don’t
yelp!
Go to by-bye, baby! Sleep and take your rest;
Don’t you fret if Cann sits on an empty chest!
Don’t you grieve if Ma seems almost “broke” to-day;
Even if the boom bursts it doesn’t matter. Things
will last till next year, and the loans will last
till next century. You’ll have heaps to pay!
N.S.W.
MONTY PEET.
A FEW BARGAINS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There are five members of the N.S.W. Legislative
Assembly who have not drawn the extra salary to
which they were entitled since the passing of the
Parliamentary Allowances Act. Thev are Messrs.
Black, Wood, Fell, Mark Morton and Colonel Onslow.
Sydney Sun.
The cost of living's going up;
To ruin we are stalking ;
But here’s some sweetness for the cup:
Five men are cheaply talking !
Black, Morton, Onslow, Wood and Fell are doing
bargain-talking!
Now, is it modesty that keeps
The bargain five from taking
Their country’s sovereigns piled in heaps?
Is it too much for making
The laws Black, Morton, Onslow, Wood and Fell
assist in making?
When everything seems too dashed dear
And debts your soul-case wither,
The simple fact will help to cheer,
We’re getting some cheap blither!
Black, Morton, Onslow, Wood and Fell are sellinc
bargain-blither!
[P.S.]
Oh! honesty’s a splendid line!
Election time is nearing ;
The ad. will be extremely fine
When to the mob appearing.
These Honest Men who spurned a “rise” will shortly
he appearing.
N.S.W.
THE RELIGIOUS EDITOR


Motor Wins
in
New South Wales
and
England
4
■
. V
r f
.iwr'
r
f
m
. sftsssmr
Mr. C. J. Monro, in his 19.71 Vanxhall, won the Hill
Climb held by Automobile Club of Australia on November 1,
on Artillery Hill, New South Wales.
Again on November 15, Mr. Monro easily beat all
competitors over the same eotirse. On both occasions he
used Pratt’s Spirit.
In England at Brooklands, Mr. A. J. Handeock
created a new world’s record, covering 702 miles 28 yards in
8 hours, using Pratt’s Spirit and Gargoyle Mobiloils.
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty. Ltd.
Throughout the Commonwealth
and New Zealand.
Do You LiKe
These Two Models ?
** Lennox " Footwear has become extremely popular
on account of the keen satisfaction and comfort it
invariably gives. 44 Lennox ” Footwear is uniform,
both as to material and workmanship, “ the best of
leather well put together." Remember, if you are
not satisfied with your purchase we immediately
refund your money.
€€
LENNOX”
351-
In Glace Kid, with Patent
Toe-cap, or Tan Glace
Kid or Patent Colt-
SEND FOR OUR CATALOGUE.
“LENNOX”
351-
Glace Kid or Tan Willow
Derby Bal. A Comfort-
able and Stylish Boot.
Coit.
Mail Order Department,
Russell Street,
MELBOURNE.
Books for Draughtsmen
No man is fitted to take a foremost position in the
shop or office who does not possess a knowledge of
drawing. Cease being subservient to others by
studying one of these books.
DOUBLE POSTAGE RATES TO NEW ZEALAND.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.
TECHNICAL BOOK DEPOT,
476 George Street
(OPPOSITE QUEEN
VICTORIA MARKETS),
Sydney.
a
Held in
a Girl’s
Hand!
Pathe’s Home
Cinematograph
EVERYTHING NECESSARY, EXCEPTING ONLY THE SCREEN,
IS IN THE MACHINE AS THE GIRL IS HOLDING IT.
Pathe’s Home Cinematograph .
Makes its own light. Fig. 16 is a small magneto. As the handle that
projects the picture is turned, sufficient light is produced in the magneto to
throw a moving picture of startling distinctness on the screen. Anyone, in
any place town or country, can have Moving Pictures in the Home without
the use of gas, electric light, or oil. No outside light is necessary. You
cannot get this advantage in any other cinematograph.
The Films will not burn.
I’athe Films are non-inflammable. There is absolutely no danger. In
Victoria the Fire Underwriters’ Association charge no extra premium if a
Pathe Home Cinematograph is in the home. You cannot get this advantage
in any other cinematograph.
Large choice of Films in Pathe’s Circulating Library
not obtainable for any other cinematograph.
PATHE FRERES,
27 Alliance Buildings,
48 Queen Street, Melbourne.
HOME CINEMATOGRAPH & ACENCIES PTY.
LTD., 48 Queen Street, Melbourne;
BIRCH & CARROLL, Edward Street, Bris-
bane; S. SPURLINC & SON, 93 Brisbane
Street, Launceston; OPTICAL & PHOTO
SUPPLIES CO., 672 Hay Street, Perth;
orC. W. FRASER & CO.. 139 York Street,
Sydney; HARRINCTONS(N.Z ) LTD., 42 Willis
Street, Wellington, N.Z. ; W. PARK, Sta-
tioner, Palmerston North, N.Z.; C. R. FORE
MAN &CO , Napier, N.Z.; WILKINS&FIELD
HARDWARE CO. LTD., Nelson, New Zealand ;
THE NEW ZEALAND FARMERS' CO-OPERA-
TIVE ASSOCIATION OF CANTERBURY LTD.;
PATERSON & BARR LTD., Dunedin, for
Dunedin; The Arts and Crafts Depot,
Masterton, N.Z.
CUT OUT AND POST TO-DAY.
—
Please send me particulars of Pathi's
Home Cinematograph,
Name
Address
27.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Absolutely Pure.
No Preservatives.
E. RESCH’S LIMITED , Brewer by Appoint-
ment to his Excellency the Governor-General,
Brewery and Offices s Dowling Street, Redfern, Sydney
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
For a courtly charm of manner, either dur-
ing soo ! al diversions or while in business
pleasantries engaged, this is the tip of the
roval counsellor: Consult, not too well, but
wisely. Kins' Oporto TV. —his whisky.*
810-SHOWMEN!
THERE'S onlv one BEST Bioffraph. We can prove
it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE.” Send for Cata-
logue. Sole agents: Jerdan’s, Ltd., 393 George Street,
Sydney.
SCIATICA.
HUSBAND DERIVED GREAT BENE-
FIT FROM DR. MORSE’S INDIAN
ROOT PILLS, SAYS PYRMONT
LADY.
“I have had recourse to Dr. Morse's
Indian Root Pills,” says Mrs. W. Cox, 187
Pyrmont Street, Pyrmont, “for indigestion
and constipation; also for very bad head-
aches and pains in the back, like a knife-
thrust, when breathing. My husband has
also taken them for sciatica, and he finds
they are the only things to give him relief,
after trying many other remedies without
effect. He would get such bad attacks that
stooping was impossible, and we had to put
his boots on for him. He is quite well now,
but he always has them handy, and to
regulate the system he occasionally takes a
dose on retiring at night, which keeps him
in perfect health. You may use this for any
purpose suitable.”*
Missing Friends.
A Federal Detective Agency.
j. CANTLON
(late Victorian Detective Police) under-
takes Commercial, Confidential, Next of Km*
Missing Friend and Matrimonial Enquiries.
Searches. Surveillance.
49 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
1> ELATIVES of the late ROBERT
\ MOORE STEVEN FINDLAY, who
died at the Victoria River, Northern Terri-
tory, on 15th May, 1912. are requested to
communicate with the Public Trustee. Daf"
win. Northern Territory. Mr. Findlay is
believed to have been a native of M arrnam-
bool, Victoria.
□ RADY, CHRISTINA, daughter of late JAMES and
‘“'CHRISTINA BRADY, of Dublin, last heard of
January 8, 1877, at Logan Village Hotel, Queenslan ,
afterwards understood to be at Queen’s Hotel, Towns
ville, Queensland, will hear something to her a 'an
tage by communicating with her sister,
“MRS. ANNE COEN (nee Brady),
Tenterfield, N.S.W-
Any friend of hers please communicate.
I UGH BYRNES.—lnformation is de '
sired of the whereabouts of «ug
yrnes, who lived in Rockhampton in .
later; or. if dead, as to Ihe place ot d
HAWTHORN & BYRAM,
Solicitors, ,
303 Queen Street, Brisbane.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Saturday in Sydney a charming day
of blue skies and sunshine. Oh, yes, there was some
dust; just enough to make a man enjoy a long, cool
drink and a “shower” when the stress of the after-
noon was over. At the Agricultural Ground the
baseballers were raving: in their glee. Waverley
Blue Sox went up against Petersham in the early
match, overthrew it and fell upon it with seven
runs to four. When the ground had been cleared of
the wreckage and the dead, Waverley Blue Sox came
out against Leichhardt 1. There had been some signs
of equality about the first scrap, but there were none
about the second. Leichhardt simply threw its
opponent down and danced on it —11 to three. On
Friday or Saturday the N.S.W. selection committee
made its choice of the men to meet the reiving
Yankees who are to arrive here in due course. The
players chosen are expected to let everything else
slide and settle down to the task of getting fit and
erudite at the game.
The cricketers bad a perfect afternoon for
the conclusion of the fifth round of Sydney First-
Grade Competition. It was a batsman’s round, and
some of the games were as exciting as cricket can be.
North Sydney, which had smitten 419 for seven
wickets, wisely declared, and started to put Bal-
main through the mill. Balmain, however, proved
refractory, and choked the mill, so that when dav
ran out it had lost but six wickets for 31S. North
Sydney thus managed to score only a drawn game,
after all its mighty effort. Glebe also was a dis-
appointed crew. With 404 for seven wickets down
it declared, hoping to rush Central Cumberland
through for a full-point win. In reply, Central Cum-
berland managed to put up 219 only; but it took
so long doing it that night descended, and left Glebe
cursing with a first-innings victory only. It was
very disgusted. Sydney, which had accumulated 349
off Gordon's batting, managed to dismiss the team
from Wade’s constituency for 270, in spite of Victor
Trumper’s splendid 122. So Sj'dney won by 79 on
the first innings. University, the one unbeaten
team, smacked 307 off Petersham, and then dismissed
it for 165 —a first-innings win by 142. Petersham
followed on, but Uni’s bowlers only managed to get
seven wickets down (for 179) when the light gave
out. Waverley wept down to Manly and fell on
Middle Harbor, dismissing it for 296, and then smit-
ing it for 364 —a first-innings’ win by 68. Western
Suburbs was easy game for Paddington, making
168 to the other’s 269 —a difference of. 101 on
the first innings. No less than five centuries graced
the round, the top score being Trumper’s magnificent
122 for Gordon. P. Newton carried his bat for 114
on behalf of Waverley. Folkard the Reliable smote
112 for Balmain; Docker also shouldered his bat for
100 for Western Suburbs in the second innings—the
innings which did not count; and Fusedale walloped
a clean, neat 100 for Sydney. The other good scores
are too numerous to mention. Among the bowlers.
Dive, of Western Suburbs, smashed up eight Padding-
ton wickets for 88 : Rough, of Middle Harbor, got
six for 89, and polished off his little lot by doing
the hat trick at the expense of Waverley; and
Cooney got five for 40 in aid of University against
Petersham.
The South Aus. cricket team for Sydney
and Melbourne looks like being the youngest on
record. Gehrs has given up big cricket. Clem Hill
has his new appointment as stipendiary steward of
racing to look after, and Whittv is blocked by busi-
ness. So Mayne and Crawford will be supported by
a young lot, all-round men mostly—Chamberlain,
Rundell, Moves, Middleton, etc. The new names are
Winser, who takes wickets (Campbell having gone
on to England from America), Ken Steele and
Pellew, respectively brother and nephew of the
better-known players of those names.
The inter-State cricket match, which con-
cluded on Monday at Brisbane, was an easy walk-
over for the N.S.W. XI. Queensland’s initial effort
yielded only 176, which N.S.W. promptly covered
with 247, so the Northern State started the second
effort 71 to the bad. When it had wiped off that
deficit with 219, N. S. Wales required a paltry 149
to win, and got them for the loss of two wickets.
So Ma won with eight wickets to spare. The man
who did most for Queensland was Fennelly, who
slogged 131 before Crannev caught him off Kelle-
wav. The rest of the team failed to back him up.
In the same innings no less than four men vanished
for ducks, and Kellewav took seven wickets for 48
runs. A horrible spectacle in an inter-State match.
* * * *
Saturday’s games, which concluded the
fourth round of Vic. Pennant Cricket, were of little
moment, most of , them being settled bv the first
day’s play. The chiefest ioy was the valorous action of
Hartkopf, cantain of ’Varsity, in closing his first
innings with three wickets down for 265, leaving his
opponents, Essendon, an hour more time that he
had occupied in which to beat the score, if thov
could. He deserved better luck than he got, for
when the ’Dons had scraped up 148 for eight wickets
rain swept the players off the field and left ’Varsitv
with a draw instead of the three-point win luck
would have given him. North replied to St. Hilda’s
146 with 211. thus continuing undefeated. Rich-
mond put up 155 to ’Cote’s 66; then, with 176 on
the board for two wickets, it declared and set about
demolishing the brickmakers a second time. But
rain destroyed its hopes, and left onlv a first-innings’
victory. Carlton worked itself into great excite-
ment by scoring 125 for seven wickets, against
’Pran’s 179, when the first shower fell; but the
remaining batsmen valiantly stuck to it, and ulti-
mately put together 243. South routed ’Rov with
great slaughter, bowler Kyle doing the hat trick
and taking six for 37 The first innings’ tallies were
144 and 88 respectively. Also, the M.C.C., in its
practice game with East, gathered in a tidv 339 for
nine wickets (Ransford 120 and Armstrong'Bo), and
then unkindly left East the tail end of the after-
noon, in which it managed to acquire 129 for one
wicket. ’Wood had the bye, which is not alwavs a
thing to go gay over, yet is not to be despised at
times.
The recent decision of the N.S.W. Cricket
Association to save £lOO per annum bv dispensing
with the services of Alec Bannerman as coach has
evoked a lot of hostile criticism. There is little
doubt that the high standard of the Ma State’s
cricketers is largely due to Bannerman’s affectionate
regard and interest for and in his work. He will be
sadlv missed. At the same time the Vic. Cricket
Association, which is not nearly so well off as the
Ma State body, is extending the scope of its coach-
ing work bv arranging for its man to visit the sub-
district grounds and give instruction to speciHlv
nicked n]avers everv working dav of the week. The
Glebe (Sydney) Club showed what it thought of the
Association’s action by promptly annointing a coach
of its own in the person of George Youill. The
result will be beneficial to Glebe—but the rest of the
clubs will suffer by contrast unless tney do likewise,
it isn t too late for the Association to reconsider its
decision a decision that is worse than a crime: a
blunder.
■■Exhaust’': Three sputtering motor-
cyclists were hit with mild fines at Prahran (Vic.)
last week for “causing intolerable noise.’’ There is
a tribal superstition amongst the road dust-eaters
that the muffling of the exhaust diminishes the power
of the machines; so they scoot about the country
with their engines making sounds like frying sau-
sages, bursting crackers and enraged cats. On the
word of the experts the suppression of all this dis-
tracting racket costs only about 2 per cent, of power,
and any spread-eagled disturber of the peace who
is mean or mad enough to grudge that amount of
mechanical shove deserves to have his petrol-
perfumed track spread with the torpid tacks of hate.
1 be glad to the tacks free of charge.
O’Neill, the affluent ex-bookmaker whom
the Melbourne police elected for some weird reason
to charge with vagrancy, had a cynical system of
backing horses. He worked on the assumption that
m an average field of 20 only three horses would be
triers. When he found out these three he backed
them. He must have done it fairly often. When
faced with the idiotic vagrancy charge he sent along
his accountant or secretary, who swore that during
the last few months his boss had won £3OOO on
Borambil and £2OO on Riffian, while smaller com-
missions returned him such sums as £llO from San-
down, £125 from Mentone, £96 from Moonee Valley
and £l5O from Epsom. And even the prosecuting
’tec admitted that O’Neill had something like £27,000
in the bank last year. Vagrancy seems even better
than going on the land on these terms.
These Yankee baseballers who are to arrive
in Australia in January are doing things in style.
A citizen recently waited on Premier Willie Watt
and asked him if the Victorian Government would
take part in a welcome to the team. Willie adroitly
side-stepped the query by babbling about the Federal
Government doing the thing properly on behalf of
all Australia. The citizen intimated that the base-
ball team was more important than the Fleet, and
that when the team had toured Australia, Japan and
Egypt it would be met by an American squadron in
the Mediterranean and escorted to the various Euro-
pean countries. But, really, that’s nothing. In
Australia, when Bourke plays Brewarrina, it alwavs
travels by warship.
Herb McCoy carried away by excitement
(assisted by trainer Cam Gray) alter defeating
American Pal Brown at the Sydney Stadium.
The inter-State Lawn Tennis tournament
at Melbourne on Saturday resulted in a win tor Vic-
toria over both N.S. VV. and South Aus. It was a
complete victory, both in men’s and ladies’ matches
' though the last rubber of the ladies’ match against
South Aus. had to be abandoned owing to bad
weather. It was a wretched day altogether—in the
morning, windy and unpleasant; in the afternoon,
raining in sheets. Many of the players resorted to
spiked shoes to enable them to keep their footing,
and played ancient Henry with the courts in con-
sequence. The most entnusiastic fighters were the
women. They kicked off their shoes and played in
stockinged feet; drenched, their white frocks splashed
with mud to the shoulders, they baitled on remorse-
lessly through the rain till friends almost dragged
them from the courts.
The Sydney Yacht Squadron was busy
deciding the second annual race for the Fairfax Cup
in a westerly wind that did not give the craft much
chance to show their Quality. Also, the breeze was
unpleasantly hot. The donor of the cup followed the
race in his steam yacht Isis, commanded by the ex-
Commodore. The flying start was a very pretty sight,
and as they danced off it was noticed that Yeulba
was first away, followed closely by Petrel, Sunbeam
and Ranee. The big boats were bunched astern, and
the Sayonara was the last to cross, fully a minute
behind tune. But at Manly the big yacht was lead-
ing the fleet, with Culwulla and White Wings in hot
pursuit, and the smaller craft bobbing along behind.
I hen for a time there was a duel between Sayonara
and Cuhvulla, each taking the lead in turns; but
Sayonara beat her handsome rival by 47 seconds at
the finish. There the deadly handicap came into
play, and when times were adjusted, it was found
that little \eulba was first, with White Wings and
saucy little Petrel second and third respectively.
Christian Webb once more steered his
famous Australian to victory in the struggle for the
championship of Sydney Club’s 18ft. class, and
thereby annexed £l5 and the championship pen-
nant;. But luck helped him ; for had not the peak
of Mavis come down with a run, Australian would
most likely have filled only second place. Mavis
alone had threatened bis chance, and when the acci-
dent happened looked a sure winner. By the time
the mishap had been remedied, Australian'had caught
up and gone ahead ; and as the man who went aloft
failed to get the sail properly peaked, so that much
of its driving power was lost, H. C. Press and Kis-
met also overtook and passed the lamed duck. The
H. C. Press is a new boat which, under the control
of G. Press, startled the natives on Saturday bv
running into second place two seconds ahead of the
speedv Kismet. Still, though it beat Fate it could
not defeat Australian.
* * * *
Phil O’Shea, Maoriland’s Champion
pusher of bikes on the road, who captured the M L
Road Race so brilliantly from scratch the other day,
has started in 15 road scurries, been first home to
claim the boodle 10 times, and, wonder of wonders,
has gained fastest time on fifteen occasions. Not
even that mighty mob of Has-beens and Still-ares—
the Arnsts, tne Larcombes and the Munros —can show
anything to equal that.
* * * #
“Carburetter”: The Hornsby (N.S.W.)
Council has started a crusade against the road hog.
It is none too soon. Every Sunday the Chatswood-
Wahroonga-llornsby road is rendered about three
times more perilous and 14 times more dusty than the
average battlefield by the hordes of selfisa citizens in
high-powered cars who tear along it at altitudinous
rates of speed. Sometimes the hogs imperil each
other. But mostly it is the unhappy walker who
suffers. He eats the dust, not of one flying car, but
of hundreds, and his offspring dodge death from
Sabbath morn till eve. Another tnoroughfare of
peril on the North Shore lies between Manly and
The Spit. Here, on Sundays, when a punt has re-
cently delivered its expensive burden, pedestrians
hurry into the bush and crouch behind shrubs till
the dust-cloud and the flying howl have torn past.
It is not a fair thing. The police could easily deal
with it by the simple process of taking off the
special constables whose job it is to hold up car-
owners for their licenses, and stationing them where
they could detect scorchers. Not one motorist in
10 goes forth without his license; and even if he
does no great harm is done. But far more than one
in 10 go forth without any intention of travelling
within the speed-limit; and where they so offend, in
frequented roads and streets, they should be legally
discouraged.
The municipality of Paris has been con-
sidering the motor horn or trumpet with a view to
standardisation. It is argued that if all motor-cars
gave the same danger signal as trams do, the public
ear would more readily detect it, because it would
associate that particular sound with approaching
danger. In which case the public would jump auto-
matically. Certainly there is a lot of solid reasoning
behind the demand for the standardisation of motor
warnings.
Percy Lambert, the English motorist re-
cently killed at Brooklands, in an attempt to crowd
110 whirling miles into 60 fleeting minutes, held
many records in his day, including the 103 J miles-
per-hour. A few days before his last drive he had
rushed over 31 miles 173yds. in 16min. 52.75ec., and
50 miles in 27min. 2.25ec., equal to 110 miles per
hour average. Then he went out to actually do the
whole 110 miles in the hour, and before he stepped
into his car he promised his fiancee—he was just
about to be married—that it should be his last record
drive. And it was. He had done 50 miles at such
a speed that the record was well in hand ; but the
tyres were unequal to the strain, and a blow-out on
a highly-banked turn did the rest.
* * * *
Another world-record goes to France —
for the longest aeroplane flight yet accomplished
over the sea. It was from the French Riviera to
Bizerta, in Tunis, an air-line of 500 miles.
The motor-car racing at Richmond Race-
course (Melb.) was a spectacular failure. As the
Argus sarcastically remarked on Monday, it was
faster than the ponies. At the northern end of the
track there is a very bad turn, which prevented the
cars getting up any pace. They flew at good speeds
along the straight, but the slowing down for that
deadly turn killed the excitement. In the first
heat of the car race Jeffkins was leading Campbell,
of Australia, easily, when for some reason he had to
stop, and Campbell rushed past and won. The
second heat went to Jeffkins, but before the final
could be run off the heavy rain had made the track
distinctly dangerous for high speeds, so the end was
postponed. Motor-car racing will not be a success
till there is a proper speedway.
This is something like a start. Arthur
Fawkner, Launceston (Tas.), has had four mounts
oyer hurdles on the same horse, and has won each
time. He has had only five races altogether, the
other being in a steeplechase, in which he tried to
land a double for the stable; but the horse ran off.
Volund, his winning mount, looks as though it
might do greater things yet, if given the chance.
There is supposed to be a Boxing Com-
mission in the United States, just as there is in
France, where Georges Carpentier was called on to
show cause why he should not be disqualified for
deceiving the public. But apparently the United
States body is indifferent or dishonest, as, so far, there
is no word of censure on Willie Ritchie for skedad-
dling out of his match with Englishman Freddie
Welsh, which was to decide the lightweight cham-
pionship of the world. Ritchie claims to hold the
championship, though on what grounds it is hard to
imagine. Had he fought and beaten Welsh he would
certainly have had some claim on the title. That
he is lightweight champion of the United States, or
all America, for that matter, is not disputed; but
as he has not defended his alleged title against
Welsh it is hard to see how he claims the cham-
pionship of the world, except on the arrogant
assumption that the Boss Cocky of the United States
is, ex officio, Grand Panjandrum of the Airth.
Next Saturday night the Gentiles of
Sydney will look on with glee while two Hebrews
bash one another for their heathen pleasure. The
Chosen are Harry Stone and Mat Wells. The
Gentile is apprehensive that the Chosen may sell
him a dog, but there is not much chance of that.
To beat the fistieally erudite and accomplished Wells
opens such a dazzling vista of possibilities to Stone
that nothing could make him forego—least of all,
sentiment. On the other hand, it would be absolute
disaster to Wells to be beaten twice in succession.
There was never, in all his career, a fight that it
was so important to Wells to win. So it can be
taken for granted that both are out for all they
are worth. It will be a great fight. Both are un-
usually fast, both extraordinarily clever; neither of
them has a real punch; but both of them are
unusually quick-witted. A scrap worth going very
far indeed to see, quite apart from the novelty of
seeing two Hebrews bashing each other Stone has
had a somewhat remarkable career. Starting life as
a newsboy in New York, he incurred the displeasure
of the police for sleeping out; and as the dis-
pleasure of the police meant the likelihood of a
term on a reformatory farm, young Stone “beat the
freight.” In other words, he boarded a goods train
and got to Chicago without paying any fare. From
Chicago he drifted to Chevenne, in Wvoming, became
a cowboy and “broncho-buster”—otherwise horse-
breaker. Later on he discovered there was much
more money in busting other guys’ jaws than bron-
chos. He made good, became a freak fighter, was
brought to Australia bv Baker, and now stands on
the threshold of a brilliant boxing eareer. Next
Saturdav ni'dit will see him either right inside the
charmed circle, or kicked off the doorstep.
Harry Stone, the Hebrew fighter who so
utterly non-nlussed Summers, is a mvsterv. As far
as can be gathered, the onlv training he indulges in
is roller or other skating with prettv girls—they
must be prettv. It is said he has never smitten a
punching-ball in his life, and never spars with anv
partners ; and the oldest inhabitant has never seen
him abroad on the roads in the early morning. He
smokes enormous black cigars, and when he isn’t
doing that he is either chewing gum or eating buns
and chocolates. If it’s true, there is something
miraculous about his condition and his fearsome
alertness. But this writer darkly suspects that it is
all a pose of the shrewd young Jew, who fully
appreciates the value of freak advertising. To be
known as a freak is the ambition ,of every boxer. .
In spite of the high prices t-h D „
big crowd to see the Pal lirown-Htrhprt „ Was a
at Sydney Stadium on Saturday night sc 4
woolly preliminary had whetted the a nlu, Ud a »d
expectation ran high. Just before thn and
Hugh D. Mclntosh, once the ttle C
Mackinsplosh, wandered in, accompanift ”° W
Ted_ Covell, and took his old-time » ! cretar y
received an ovation. The progress™® *
caused phonographs to be installed at th ß ker had
to roar announcements to the audience n"? sid e
did not roar loud enough, and their nni. But they
the din and chatter of 12,000 people <J a! lost ii
ably, Baker will go back to the human fo°’h n PreSUrn '
used to remark, “Fair sirs, on Saturday 3™
etc. McCoy came in his black and „ r „ ght ’ etc.,
followed a few minutes later bv Brown S in'' a Wr . ap P er >
with old-gold decorations. McCov re< ! ro,j e
but more rugged of the two. Brown , shorte r
McCoy was white, even pallid. Brown &S brown ;
have an immense advantage of hcin-hi j med to
But they were a pair of handsome Banimal, 8 animal, reach-
gazing upon them, one realised the wor rUv ’ ■ and '
of Baker in refusing to allow women to l?° ni
Stadium. It would never do—some of th«lh the
would be torn to pieces. ” e boxers
When the gong sounded the signal f or h»th
Brown came in cautiously, and McCov , i tle >
after the manner of Agag. It was evident ttvTl
a profound respect for each other. Thev hnv»,i y ? ad
all m a moment it was made apparent that in.* And
Brown was too fast for Mehegan, so McCm- , JUSd as
fast for Brown. McCoy easily outboxed him at inn°°
range. So Brown changed his tactics. He camp n ?
and made a sudden and savage attack. He wa« « 5
mg now, and he mauled McCov badly L” 8 ,
to dominate the Victorian and drive him
always the Victorian hit, and hit, and hit a"ain u
could hit faster than Brown, and when Brown 51' ?!
him heavy hashes he hit back gamely When B?
missed, McCoy bounded in like a flash and hit
more. All the time that Brown was bor L 6
McCoy smote hard and quick. He was in a dl}
way a dozen times, but clawed and battered a Da th
out. Brown was as persistent as a bullmm w
McCov beat him off. Towards the end ofthe’ flaht
McCoy began to attack and to bore into Brown-. 1
defence. Pal had tired; his mouth was bleedingTnd
so was his head from a clash. The end of "even!
round saw McCoy better than he was at the beginning
of it. Brown seemed to dominate him for a whi>
after each opening rush; then McCoy would tJin
to shine through the gloom. Brown narrowly m
scoring a knock-out several times with vicious uDDer
cut delivered in the close fighting. But he missel
and the miss was as disastrous as the mile In th»
last round the citizen went for the Australian very
fiercely. A knock-out was his onlv chance- but he
had no hope of delivering it, and when the eonz
sounded the retreat Scott placed his hand on McCov’s
head, and the crowd stood up and roared approval
The Southern Cross w-as high.
It is understood now that McCoy is to
meet the winner of the Stone-Wells fight, which will
rage round the Stadium next Saturday night—and
that will be a battle worth seeing. McCoy has im-
proved vastly, and is faster than ever he was. Some
of his returns on Saturday night were very pretty
and absolutely dazzling in speed. The onlv thing
is that he apparently does not carry a reallv dis-
astrous punch. But few quick-hitters do. Still, he
is a harder hitter than either Stone or Wells, and is
quite capable of battering both of them if he can
deliver the wallops. But, then, so is Johnnv Sum-
mers—and he failed utterly to get them home. In
the fighting at the Stadium of late, speed, and not
hitting power, has been the dominant factor.
* * * *
The S.A. Tattersall’s Club Summer meet-
ing saw several pleasant dividends paid out by the
Tote. When A 1 Kitah won the Corinthian Handi-
cap his backers collected £34 14s„ and the backers
of the second collected 325. A.E.P., winner of the
JuvenHe Handicap, rewarded his followers with
£lO 75., and the second panned out £2 6s. Hot-
spur, in the Hurdle, threw out £l9 7s. for each sove-
reign. There were others not quite so good, but
better than Iscariot Bagstein would have paid out
under any circs.
* * • »
“Stumps”: To illustrate the saying that
it requires a surgical operation to remove a mem-
ber of an Australian cricket team, the N.S.W.
selectors have picked stumper Carter to represent
N.S.W. in the Sheffield Shield contests this season.
Carter refused to play last year, and this year has
not turned out for his club (Waverley). This is, of
course, the most Striking method of encouraging
enthusiasm in the young talent. On the other
hand, the selectors have passed out Syd Gregory,
who for 25 years has been in the team. Probably
they reckoned he had had a fair show.


How to Remain
Vigorous and Healthy.
Brace up your system, invigorate your
circulation, and you’ll build up a sufficient
reserve of energy to retain vigorous health.
My system of HEALTH EXERCISES
TAUGHT BY POST, secures greatest
fits with least expenditure of effort and
time. You see they’re scientific movements
that go straight to the right spot. Every
motion benefits. Every necessary movement
is there. Everything useless is cut out.
JNo apparatus of any kind is required. Ali
that you need is elbow room.
Under such favorable conditions progress
is naturally rapid and good results per-
manently secured.
See how these men have benefited :
am pleased to report I am getting on splen-
dWlf. a »d am feeling better in every way, since I
started your Course.”—O.ll., Dunedin, N.Z.
‘ I have now finished mv second month’s course and
can say that I never felt better. Nothing pleases
T f nl - or ® than going through your exercises Mv
chest is 36 inches as against 33* when I started, and
I have put on 81b. in weight.”
E.M., Gunnedah, N.S.W.
“I m V s . t , sa - v . l have improved wonderfully in health
and spirits since starting your Course. I have
gained nearly half a stone in weight, and I feel
better than ever.”—T.J.H., Tolga, Q.
And , ® n J y fifteen minutes’’daily exercise
secured these magnificent results. Isn’t it
convincing evidence of the great merit of my
instruction of the wonderful benefits you
can secure also?
from A Kf e r’ fr u m ,7 handsomely illustrated 48-page Booklet
from Self-Culture —it gives full information, cost of tuition
Australian penny stamps for postage tuition.
“Health and Strength
etc. Please send three
REG. L. BAKER,
274 BELMONT BUILDINGS, SYDNEY.
GIVE YOUR FRIENDS
CIGARS FOR XMAS!
The season of gift giv-
ing is. fast approaching,
so it is time to think of
the selection of your
Xmas presents.
My new Catalog, en-
titled “A Discriminating
Smoker’s Guide,” will
assist you in making
satisfactory selections.
It illustrates Boxes of
Cigars, Cases of Pipes,
Pouches, Cigar and
Cigarette Cases, etc.
A copy will be sent you
on request.
Manuel
Garcia
Cigars
(Reina Victorias)
as illustrated, are fine-
flavored Havana Cigars,
with a rich and pleas-
ing aroma.
In Boxes of 25. 12'6;
5«, 24/-; 100, 45/-
Postage extra.
A 25-Box weighs about
ooz.
A. M. SOLOMON,
CIGAR EXPERT,
17 3 Pitt Street Sydney.
BEST RESULTS
ASSUREO ON
SHELL’
BENZINE.
*
The British imperial Oil Co. Ltd.
SAFETY GAS
MACHINES
Will Vaporise Benzine,
Motor Spirits or Benzoline
Distributing Agencies now being
considered in first instance.
APPLY—
R. S. PAPPRILL,
consulting
ENGINEER,
BRISBANE.
WEAR RIGNEY SHOES
and you can step out into the world knowing that
nowhere will you meet a man wearing footwear
More correct, more stylish, or better made than
the shoes you wear.
r l he illustration shows a very choice Russian Calf
Hal., Close Welts, Light Sole, Guaranteed Hand
Sewn. One of the famous “Rostock’s” (English
Made) Shoes—very exclusive shape—a shoe fox-
gentlemen.
Price 3 51-
Postage 9d. extra.
Write for a Copy of our Catalog.
the rigney SHOE CO.,
“The Men’s exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
All Athletes
Use
“ parrot"
BRAND »»
BOSISTOS
EUCALYPTUS OIL.
r
X
m
jA
%
■
wmm
■f- 1
WM: , ■ ■
I
Bosisto’s “ Parrot Brand ” Eticalypttis Oil,
tKe Famed Remedy for Rheumatism, Sprains,
Bruises,Wounds, Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis
rr
-■
*
*
"VERIBEST” SHIRTS.
STYLES FOR HOT
WEATHER WEAR.
on a shirt is a Guarantee of Highest Grade
hlet" “2 If-’ k x P ert Cutting and Careful Manufacture—“Veri-
, bhirt i n ?s represent the Pick of the Products of the
Svelv Sh “Oui ”° n ‘‘v ei? i tal t” Ia «u ?tS ’ and the desi B ns are exclu-
siveiy Ours. V enbest Shirts are made in our Own
ELTsi’ and fi? all fir i ed with the Cuff-Saving, Comfort-
Making Strap-and-Button Sleeve Lift.
“Veribest” Shirts, 3/6
In Fine White Matte—
with Collar and Breast
Pocket—splendid for sport-
ing wear and general use
in hot weather.
In White Cellular
Material, 4/6
In Heavy Jap Siik 13/6
Style as shown or with
Plain Neckband, for wear
with Detachable Collars
(latter 1/- each).
“Veribest” Shirts, 2 9
In Untearable Scotch
Twills and Pampas Shirt-
ings— guaranteed Fadeless
and Unshrinkable. Collar
and Pocket. For working
and knockabout wear.
Light in weight, but with
great capacity for service.
Good-looking patterns—
also in qualities at 3/6,
4/6.
“Veribest” Shirts, 6/6
In Oxford, Cambric and
Zephyr Shirtings—showing
the popular white ground
and fine stripe effects.
Made with Unstarched
Front and Soft Gauntlet
Cuffs—the most sensible
style for Summer wear.
Collars to match Shirts or
in white Oxford, 9d. each.
All Colors guaranteed
Fast.
POST YOUR ORDER NOW !
and any of the Shirts quoted above will reach you by return
freight paid. When ordering send size of Collar worn.
Lincoln, Stuart & Co. Pty. Ltd.
“ Mail Order Tailors and Outfitters,”
244-254 FLINDERS STREET
—MELBOURNE.


This Coming
Christmastide
Cut down the Cost of your
XMAS PRESENTS to ONE-HALF
By taking- advantage of
FLAVELLE, ROBERTS 8 SANKEY’S
Compulsory Realisation
SALE.
Owing to the death of the senior partner our
entire stock is being disposed of at
HALF MARKED PRICES.
Its reputation for quality is known throughout
Australia, and secured 3 grand prizes and exten-
sive Royal Patronage at the
FRANCO-BRITISH EXHIBITION,
LONDON.
THREE IDEAL GIFTS IN BRACELET
WATCHES.
" ■ ?
§ Actual Size.
GOLD KEYLESS WATCH, Splendid Swiss Lever
Movement, with 9et. EXPANDING BRACELET.
Complete in Case. Marked £lO/10/-; now
£5/5/-
f Actual Size.
15ct. GOLD KEYLESS SWISS LEVER, with 15ct.
EXPANDING BRACELET. In case.
Marked £l6; now £B.
§ Actual Size.
GOLD KEYLESS WATCH. Highest-grade Swiss
Lever Movement, with 15ct. GOLD EXPANDING
BRACELET. Complete in case. Marked £ 18;
now £9.
THREE ARTISTIC BROOCHES OF THE VERY
HIGHEST QUALITY.
Twin Hearts, Olivine centres surrounded with
Diamonds, and Olivine Crown, 15et. Gold.
Marked Price, £lB/18/-; now £9/9/-
Fine Pearl and Diamond Cluster BROOCH, in
15ct. Gold, 18ct. Settings. Marked £4B; now
£24.
Scroll Pattern, in 15ct. Gold, with fine Opals
and Diamonds. Marked £B/5/-; now
£4/2/6.
Let us know your requirements in Jewellery,
Watches, Clocks, Silver or Electro Plate, and we
will send you a Special List of Appropriate
Bargains.
Flavelle, Roberts &
San key Ltd.,
150 Queen Street, BRISBANE.
Molesworth Street, LISMORE.
East Street, ROCKHAMPTON.
a
c
Ti
1
73
u.
Try Kruschen Salts with early
morning tea.
Many users of Kriischen
Salts are in the habit of
adding from one quarter to
a half teaspoonful of Kriis-
chen Salts to the cup of tea
they take before rising.
This is an excellent habit
and is strongly endorsed by
doctors —indeed many doc-
tors take Kriischen Salts
that way themselves.
During the summer, es-
pecially, it is a practice
which has many advantages.
Hot tea co-operates with
the action of the salts in a
most satisfactory manner,
and hastens the removal of
uric acid poison from the
system —poison which tends
to accumulate much more
rapidly in summer than in
winter.
Prevention is better than
cure, and by adopting this
method of preventing uric
acid accumulations in the
system it is quite easy to
guard against
Liver and Kidney Disorders, Gout,
Rheumatism and Lumbago.
and other troubles caused
by uric acid. The
result is a sensation of
brightness, vivacity and
vigour: worries disappear,
indifference vanishes, and
depression gives way to a
feeling of confident op-
timism.
Kruschen Salts are non-
effervescent and can be
taken without causing the
slightest flatulence or dis-
comfort. They are there-
fore most suitable for the
numerous people who can-
not take aerated or “ fizzy”
drinks.
The Ingredients of Kriischen Salts are necessary.
It must be borne in mind that
the ingredients of Kriischen Salts
are necessary for healthy life. Your
doctor will tell you so if you will
show him the analysis (on every
bottle). Your body must, of
necessity, obtain these ingredients
from somewhere or you could not
live.
Normally your system should
extract those vital salts from your
food—meat, bread, fruit, vege-
tables, milk, eggs, and so on ; but,
as a matter of fact, owing to
impaired digestion, errors of diet,
overwork, anxiety, worry, seden-
tary occupation, and many other
causes, your system does not extract
from food the correct proportions
of these essential lifegiving salts.
And what follows ? Depression,
or headaches, or constipation, or
disordered liver, or inactive kid-
neys, or Rheumatism, or Gout, or
Sciatica, or Lumbago, or Eczema
—many of which arise from excess
of Uric Acid, the cause of more
trouble than many people suspect.
Kriischen Salts should be your
safe-guard. Besides cleansing
the body of impurities gently,
surely, and painlessly, they possess
a wonderful power of giving new
life and vitality to the countless
millions of cells of which every
body is composed.
Flesh, blood, bone, cartilage,
brain and nerve are all made up
of minute cells, and every cell
requires one or more of the nu
merous constituents of Kriischen
Salts for its healthy life.
Krttschen
Salts
LIEBIG’S
ANALYSIS: —
SODASULPH.
SODA CHLORID.
SODA PHOSPH.
MAGNES. SULPH.
MAGNES CHLOR.
POTAS. SULPH.
POTAS. CHLORID.
Of all good chemists, grocers, and
stores throughout Australia.
Wholesale Distributing Agents:
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR,
287-289, Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietors:
E. GRIFFITH HUGHES
(KRUSCHEN) LTD.,
68, Deansgate Arcade, Manchester, England,
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRrCE.
2
Per Bottle
Business, Robbery, etc.
From an English shipyard: I passed the word a
week or two ago that rumors were around of a new
20,000-tonner for the Australian run. I find now
that Rumor got only half-way to the truth. There
are to be two of these skiffs; they will be built for
Holt’s Blue f’unnel Line, and will go on the Cape
route, of course. It is only five years or so since we
were making such a song about the new “M” class
P. and O. giants of 10,000 or 12,000 tons. Who is
game to bet that the 30,000-tonners are not on the
road within another five years?
* * * *
A packet of blue ruin reached The Bulletin office
lately. Subsequently a letter arrived signed by Her-
bert C. Caines, on behalf of the Dorset Society of
N. S. Wales. Mr. Caines alleged that the painful
incident was really a sample of a Truckle Blue
Vinny cheese presented by the London Dorset Society.
Caines furthermore asserted that the local Dorsets
were delighted with the gift, and had sent the
sample “in order that they might not selfishly enjoy
the pleasure of discussing it themselves.’’ Observe
the fiendish cunning with which the Dorset Society
gets rid of its antiques! Most societies would have
kept it to themselves and lived it down. However,
this paper accepts the Truckle Blue Vinny as a
tip ; if its own family skeleton ever becomes unbear-
able, the incubus will be cut up into small pieces
and posted round with complimentary letters, and a
good hunk will go to the Dorset Society of N. S.
Wales.
“Gumsucker”: I am promoting a Society for the
Suppression of Postmen. Really the world would not
suffer anything worth speaking of from their abolition.
If we send in an application for a good job, the post
brings us no answer. The official never puts into
our hands news that a rich uncle has died, and left
us £100,000,000. If we send some fine lines to a
paper, which lines we have composed with the help
of God and a dictionary, the postman so rarely
fetches us a cheque that we might just as well go for
it. But with fiendish delight he hurls in bills from
everybody and everywhere. It is sickening to reflect
on the capacity of clerks employed by drapers, clubs,
and creditors generally. But how often doth waiting
make the heart sick when it comes to a letter calcu-
lated to cheer us up? The long arm of the cussed-
ness of things in general holds back even the letters
of-our best girls, and persists in pushing forward all
sorts of unpleasant documents. Lottery proposals
and medicine advts. which assure me that I am far
from well block up my doorstep every morning. In
short, the postman is a nuisance. And 10 to 1, if
I’d been fool enough to put a stamp to it, he would
have had the job of bringing this par. back from
Sydney to Adelaide.
THE LOAN, THE DEFICIT, AND THE D-I
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The long life of the old deficit and the labored
efforts made in its reduction (18 years of its exist-
ence having elapsed before any appreciable headway
in liquidation was made) afford a striking and prac-
tical example of the difficulties which attend the
liquidation of any serious shortage in revenue, and
that past experience indicates that the process of a
return to normal conditions will be a gradual one.
— N.S. W. Auditor-General’s Report.
This is the Loan that walked the earth in 1893 ;
Half of him was created then to pacify the D———!
The D who in that direful year rose up and
howled for cash —
The sad and immemorial year when all the banks
went smash !
This is the Loan—or half of him—that Treasurer
Jabez Perks
Alluded to as vital to our reproductive works;
The works that in that joyless year were started to
relieve
The Outoworks and Unemployed, who had to starve
or thieve!
This is the Works they put them on —quite per-
manent, of course,
Until the wind and weather and the waves rolled up
in force!
This is the Works —what’s left of ’em —and you can
plainly see
How very scientifically the}' spent those £ s. d.!
The heaps of sand they shifted then have been blown
back again;
The paint upon the old fence-rails has been washed
off by rain ;
The railway (where the weeds don’t grow) is plainly
to be seen
And look! on this foundation-stone: “Victoria,
Empress-Queen
They planned it all to pay (of course) in 1893 ;
They said: “The Future’s with us still —or, certainly
will be.”
The Unemployed and Outoworks drew each his
weekly pay—
There was no Union then ; the rate was just Five-
Bob-a-Day 1
The Cash they borrowed then was blewed—some mil-
lions was the sum
(No sinking fund ; the Interest goes on to Kingdom
Come!)
And as no individual cared a solitary cent
About the Bill in years to come that Little Loan
Just Went!
This is the Deficit that grew—and grew—and grew
—and grew !
Each little Loan thev raised each year increased our
lOU.
But no one cared—Why should' they care? They
wouldn’t have to pay;
That little Deficit is grown the giant of to-day!
This is the Deficit; GOD knows when he will leave
the place!
Expenditure and Revenue, which used to run a race
They are a long procession now—and one of ’em
seems dead,
For that Dark Horse, Expenditure, is always well
ahead!
The Loans they raised in Ninety-Three, and Four-
and Five-and Six —-
Ay! every year, right down to this, for rails, and
works, and bricks,
And roads and bridges, sheds and wharfs, and
stones, and dust, and grit
Are joyfully united now to the Grand Deficit!
This is the Deficit, and round his feet the emmets
play;
The evanescent Ministers who pawn and pawn
alway!
Their troubles what the Future holds! Their dread
of coming drought,
So long as they can keep their jobs—and Tother
fellow out!
This is the D ! Yea, verily! He’s never far
away,
If half is true that parsons and ecclesiastics say!
The D Himself ! —an Empty Safe—a Treasury
that’s bare,
A looming Drought, and Ministers who neither know
nor care!
The Ministers of ’93 were built upon this plan.
Their troubles when the loans were paid, or De-
ficits began ;
But now—and here’s the difference vast—we’re very
much afraid
The D—- (who is awake at last) refuses to he laid !
N.S.W.
MONTY PEET.


r
mi
V
r
ORDER YOUR
FAN MOTORS NOW
THE GUARANTEE OF EXCELLENCE
ON GOODS ELECTRICAL.
AX\ home, office, store, shop, factory, or any building at all can be kept cool and comfortable during the summer days
and nights by means of G.E. Eledfric Fans. G.E. Fans are scientifically designed, and are made in all sizes, types
and voltages. They may be had with or without the oscillating arrangement; the latter will be found a great improvement
over the plain type, and is made for either wall, desk or ceiling attachment.
WRITE FOR BULLETIN B. 3217.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC CO.,
Corner Queen and Little Collins Streets, MELBOURNE. 217 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Agents
rBRISBANE, Q. : The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia (E.S.C.A,), Edward Street.
I PERTH, W.A.: Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., “Mazda House,” Hay Street.
I ADELAIDE, S.A.s Unktenaun & Johnstone, Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
y NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical and Engineering Co., Dunedin, Auckland, Wellington.
for More!^
r
V
/A
Bird’s
Custard
stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess.
Has stood the test of time
Over 70 years ’ success.
POURING
IN FOR
XMAS.
Goods are literally
pouring in for Xmas.
mm
Gloriously enamelled, on Ster-
ling Silver Hatpin, Diameter of
top If in., 13/6 each.
Beautifully enamelled, on Solid
Silver Belt Buckle, in case, 17/6
NEW? CHARACTERISTIC? YES!
Silver goods this year have distinction of outline, are extra heavy and strong, and the designs
tend to the severe.
Jewellery is of the dainty, light, platinum school, combined with whole pearls in numbers.
Cameos are in evidence in the higher true art productions, and watch bracelets are the correct thing.
In gems the craze is for pearls, whole pearls and for sapphires and aquamarines.
Send for our latest Catalogue.
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
Fairfax & Roberts, Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney, 23 &25 Hunter Street.
THE LONE HAND
for GOOD STORIES 8 BRIGHT ARTICLES.
PRICE. SIXPENCE.
PILE PILLS.
PERMANENT CURE.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS.
Non-aperient. A sure and speedy cure for alj cases
of Interna] and External Piles.
Have Cured Thousands of Cases, some after suffering
over 40 years.
Made and sold by ANDREW MURPHY, WOY
WOY (N.S.W.), Sole Proprietor.
PRICE 3/- PER BOX, or 8 BOXES £l,
Post Free.
On Sale at All Druggists and Chemists throughout
tlie States.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austra-
lasian, Gd. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the offices, 115 High llol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
THE .Australian Magazine—THE LONE
* HAND. Tlie National Monthly. Price, 64,
The Highest Economy in Fuel & Steam
IS ATTAINED BY USING
R-WOLF
Patent Superheated Steam
Locomobiles.
The Most Economical Motive Power for Electric Power
Stations and All Other Purposes*
High-class Compact Complete Steam Plant.
One Unit.
Easy Attendance, Greatest Durability.
Use of Any Kind of Fuel.
Tests of one of the Locomobiles illustrated gave
1.061 b. Coal 9.061 b. Steam
per B.H.P. per hour •
t'-
t
4
4
*%Smm
WB*S2(i
T*
W
;
m
mm.
&
GERMANY. Iron and Steel Works, Ohligs.
1 WOLF Compound Condensing Superheated Steam Locomobile, 650
B.H.P. Direct Coupled to Dynamo, and 1 WOLF Compound Condensing
Superheated Steam Locomobile, 540 B.H.P.
Australian Representatives s
HAES & EGGERS LTD., 163 Clarence Street, Sydney.


The Bank of Australasia
(.INCORPORATED BY ROYAL CHARTER, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. .. •• -• •• •• •• £1,600,000
Reserve Fund ( £500,000 is invested in 21 per cent. Consols, the re-
mainder being used in the business of the Bank) .. .. .. 2,060,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors under the Charter .. .. .. 1,600,000
£5,260,000
HALF-YEARLY REPORT of the Directors of the Bank of Australasia.
With the Accounts for the Half-Year to 11th April, 1913.
Presented to the Proprietors at the Half-Yearly General Meeting held on Thursday, 2nd October, 1913.
REPORT.
The Directors submit to the Proprietors the Balance-Sheet as at 14th April last, with the Profit
Account for the Half-Year to that date. After providing for rebate on bills current, for British and
Colonial rates and taxes, for a 10 per cent, bonus to the staff, and for all bad and doubtful debts, the net
profit for the Half-Year amounted to £206,643 14s. 4d.
To this sum must be added £28,548 9s sd. brought forward from the previous Half-Year, making
a total of £235,192 3s. 9d., out of which the Directors have declared a Dividend for the Half-Year at
the rate of 14 per cent, per annum, or £2 16s. per share, and a Bonus at the rate of 3 per cent, per
annum, or 12s. per share, together £3 Bs. per share, free of income tax.
The Dividend and Bonus will absorb £136,000, and the Directors have further appropriated £50,000
to the Reserve Fund, and £20,000 in reduction of the cost of Bank Premises. There will then remain
£29,192 3s. 9d. to be carried forward to the next account.
The Dividend and Bonus will be payable, in London and in the colonies, on the 3rd October.
The £400,000 of new capital issued has been fully subscribed, and the interest on the instalments
will be payable on the Ist October.
The Directors have to record with deep regret the deaths of their esteemed colleagues, Mr. W. R.
Arbuthnot and the Right Hon. Alfred Lyttelton, K.C., M.P. ....
To fill the vacancies thus created, the Directors have appointed Mr. Frederick V. C. Livingstone-
Lcarmonth and the Hon. Michael Hugh Hicks Beach. M.P. The names of these gentlemen will be sub-
mitted for the approval .of the proprietors at the annual general meeting in 1914, in accordance with the
provisions of the Deed of Settlement.
ALDENHAM, Chairman.
4 Threadneedle Street, London, 22nd September, 1913.
PROFIT ACCOUNT, from October 14, 1912, to April 14, 1913.
Undivided profit, October 14, 1912 .. .. .. . . .. .. .. .. £164,548 9 5
Less: Dividend and Bonus, April 4, 1913 .. .. .. .. .. .. 136,000 0 0
£28,548 9 5
Profit for the Half-Year to April, 14, 1913, after deducting rebate on
bills current at balance date (£11,619 19s. 6d.), and making pro-
vision for all bad and doubtful debts, and for a 10 per cent,
bonus to the staff .. .. •• •• •• •• ... £388,765 12 7
Less:
L. Charges of Management—
Colonial—
Salaries and allowances to the colonial staff,
including the superintendent’s department,
and 204 branches and agencies ..
General expenses, including rent, repairs, sta-
tionery, travelling, etc.
London —
Salaries
General expenses..
11. Rates and Taxes —
Colonial £14,442 12 10
London . . . . . . . . 15,129 5 4
Total amount of unappropriated profit
From which deduct—
For transfer to Reserve Fund
For reduction in cost of bank premises
109,402 4 10
28,369 7 5
10,636 12 6
4,141 15 4
£152,550 0 1
29,571 18 2 182,121 18 3 206,643 14 4
£235,192" 3 9
£50,000 0 0
20,000 0 0
70,000 0 0
Leaving available for dividend
£165,192 3 9
BALANCE-SHEET, April 14, 1913.
Dr. LIABILITIES.
Circulation . . . . . . . . £188*472 0 0
Deposits .. . . . . . . 18,515,034 18 6
Bills payable and other liabilities, v
including provision for contin-
gencies . . . . . . . . 2,751,471 8 2
£21,454,978 6 8
Capital .. £1,600,000 0 0
New Share Account- 509,200 0 0
Reserve Fund . . 2,060,000 0 0
Profit Account,
undivided balance 165,192 3 9
4,334,392 3 9
£25,789,370 10 5
ASSETS. Cr.
Specie, Bullion, Government Notes
and Cash Balances .. ..£4,995,754 14 10
Bonus at call and at short notice. . 2,195 000 0 0
British Government Securities . . 838,261 11 1
India and Colonial Governments'
Securities and other investments 546,061 13 10
Bills receivable, advances on secu-
rities and other assets. . . . 17,192,666 9 5
Bank premises in Australia, New
Zealand and London . . .. 21,626 1 3
£25,789,370 10 5
R. W. JEANS, General Manager.
F. H. BLOGG, Accountant.
We have examined the cash and securities in London, and the London books, and have verified the
transfers from the several branches in the Commonwealth and New Zealand, and we beg to report that,
in our opinion, the foregoing is a full and fair balance-sheet of the bank, and that it exhibits a true and
correct view of the state of the bank’s affairs as shown by the books. The investments are valued at
market price or under.
London, 17th September, 1913. WELTON, JONES & CO., Auditors.
ON THE NOP!
A superb library- volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred of “Hop’s” best drawings. Full
Bulletin size- Price. 21s.' w
English, Scottish U Australian Bank Limited
BALANCE SHEET.
(In London and Australia, 30tn June, 1913.)
LIABILITIES.
Authorised Capital—
-43,155 Shares at £25 per Share £1,(L8,870 0 0
Paid-up Capital— \
43,155 Shares ( £l2 10s. per Share) 539,437
Reserve Fund . . • • • • 265,000
(The amount of the Reserve
Funds is used in the business of
the Bank)
Perpetual Stocks —-
Debenture Stock £983,547 0 0
Preferred Inscribed
Deposit Stock 889,419 0 0
Deferred inscribed
Deposit Stock 718,300 0 0
2,591,266
Deposits at Interest.. ..' •• 3,457,697
(Including Government Balances )
Current Accounts .. .. • • 2,652,789
Notes in Circulation.. .. •• 3,v14
Bills Payable and other Liabilities 516,302
Profit and Loss—
Balance as per
Account .. £136,128 3 10
Less I nterim
Dividend .. 16,183 2 6
— 119,945
10 0
0 0
0 0
11 11
14 11
0 0
17 4
1 4
£10,146,152 15 6
\SSETS
Cash and Bullion £1,591,062 11 3
Cash at Bankers
and at short
notice. . . . 785,259 16 0
£2,376,322 7 3
Investments.. 170,000 0 0
British and Colonial Government
Securities.
Bills Receivable and Remittances
in Transit.. .. .. .. 1,168,630 10 11
Advances and other assets. . .. 6,128,056 8 1
After making provision for bad
debts and contingencies.
Security for Note Issue . . . . 4,613 18 3
Colonial Government Securities.
Bank Premises and Furniture . . 298,629 11 0
£10,146,152 15 6
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT, for the Year ending 30th June, 1913.
To Expenses of management in London
and Australia, including direc-
tors’ and auditors’ fees, note tax,
income tax, etc... •• •• £150,461
~ Reserve Fund . . . • • • 15,000
~ Balance . . • • • • ■ • 136,128
6 9
0 0
3 10
£301,589 10 7
By Balance brought forward from last
year . . . . . . . . £32,433 19 (i
~ Profit, after deducting interest on
perpetual stocks together with
rebate on bills current, and mak-
ing provision for bad debts and
contingencies . . . . . . 269,155 11 l
£301,589 10 T
Deducting expenses of management, the profits for the year,
ward as shown by the Profit and Loss Statement, amount to..
and after providing for interest upon the Perpetual Stocks
and placing to the credit of Reserve Fund .. • •
together with the Balance brought for-
£249,444 9 6
.. £98,316 5 8
. . 15,000 0 0
113,316 5 8
there remains a credit balance of .. •• •• •• •• ' ' „
from which an Interim Dividend of 3 per cent, was paid on Ist May .. £16,183 l 6
It is proposed to make further appropriations as follows: —
To Reserve Fund, additional, raising it to £300,000
To the payment of a further 5 per cent, to the shareholders, making
a Dividend of 8 per cent, for the year, free of Income Tax
To the purchase and cancellation of Deferred Inscribed Deposit
Stock in accordance .with the Articles of Association..
To the Officers’ Guarantee and Provident Fund
To the payment of a Bonus to the Staff of 10 per cent, on their
salaries..
14,385
2,500
136,128 3 10
35,000 0 0
26,971 17 6
8,500 0 0
lna sin a n
leaving a balance to be carried forward of .. • ■ .. £32,088 3 10
The sum of £l4 385 set aside last year in accordance with the Articles of Association has been appro-
priated to the purchase of £15,700 Deferred Inscribed Deposit Stock, which has been cancelled and ihe
amount passed, as before, to the credit of Bank Premises.
E. M. JANION, Manager.
JOS. GRIEVE, Accountant.
0. J. HEGAN, 1
JAMES JACKSON, !- Directors.
J. PATERSON, J
AUDITORS’ REPORT.
We report to the shareholders that we have obtained all the information and explanations we have
ventured and that we have examined this Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Account, which we find
•ire framed in accordance with the Returns and Estimates of value received from Australia and the books
of the Bank in London : and we are of opinion that, on the basis thereof, this Balance Sheet is properly
drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the company’s affairs, according to the
best of our information and the explanations given to us and as shown by the books of the company.
London, 9th October, 1913. TURQUAND, YOUNGS & CO„ Auditors.
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE.
Made in England. Perfectly
harmless, indetectable,
and guaranteed free
from Nitrate of
Silver and Lead
Salts. :
IN VARIOUS
SHADES Raven
Black, Black,
Brown, Light or
' Golden Brown,
Blonde, Chestnut
and Auburn
Price 3/6, posted 3/1t
Directions with every
bottle.
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 The Block Arcade, Collins St., Melbourne
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
Over 30 years ago the late Lord
Beaconsfield testified to the benefits
he received rora H.mrod’s
Asthma Powder anJ every
post brings simlar letters
to-day.
A3TSHWIA,
Famed for 40 Years.
Best remedy or Asthma
Hay t-ever, K.ose Co.d or
ord nary Cough.
s#«r in hm *> an Chtntuu ana stores
throughout Ausira<as.a.
IMPORTANT TO FARMERS.
Reports in the daily papers indicate heaps of trouble from a comparatively new quarter, viz.,
THE RURAL WORKERS. Providing you have several stalwart sons to assist in the farming
operations you have little to fear, but to those not so fortunate we say :
8.1823
N. 13451 ii
)
The MARSHALL OIL TRACTOR
___________^ )
Is positively the Fanners and Squatters’ best friend, as it does the work
of from 16 to 32 Farm Horses, with a minimum of expense and labor.
Bear in mind this Engine costs “ nothing to feed” when it r s not working .
it runs equally as well on Kerosene as Benzine.
it can be used in the Harvest Field without the slightest danger of Fire.
HUNDREDS OF OTHER GOOD REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD HAVE ONE.
WRITE FOR FURTHER PARTICULARS.
CASH or EASY TERMS.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO. LTD.
The Engineers’Depot, 1 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Where the Best Engines are Sold (not Kept in Stock).


1
ABBEY
SHOES
In the making of Abbey Shoes,
attention to the smallest details,
and styles that are correct, impart
to them a character that stamps
them as the right footwear for
gentlemen.
The boot we illustrate is a Tan
Willow Calf Bal., 22/6, 25/- and
27/6.
Also, in Box Calf, 21/-, 25/-.
In Glac6 Kid, 22/6, 25/- and
27/6.
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage extra.
Write for Catalog.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
The
Marie
Permanent
Hair
Stain
(Registered).
BE YOUTHFUL EVER!
This well-known and reliable Permanent Stain has
given complete satisfaction to thousands of men
and women throughout Australia who have used it
on hair, moustache and beard. Not one failure.
Unaffected by surfing, tomes, washing or wearing.
Non-injurious to the most delicate hair or skin.
Impossible to go patchy. Simple to apply. Light
Brown, Medium Brown, Dark Brown and Black.
PRICE 10 6, 6 d. postage (12 months’ supply,).
Money returned if proved unsatisfactory. All
Toilet Requisites stocked. Send me your hairwork.
One and Only Address:
'MARIE VAN BRAKKEL,
46 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
(Opposite Hotel A ustralia).
No connection with any other firm trading under
the name of Van Brakkel. (Register all letters,).
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wk Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builder s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all pans of the world.
Do You Use Glass Instru-
ments in Your Calling: ?
2
Do you use Scientific Glassware in
your calling? We manufacture and
repair them to exact standard re-
quirements, and guarantee their per-
fect accuracy.
If you wish special instruments made
for any purpose, tell us your needs
and we will quote you for the neces-
sary design.
Our Booklet, illustrating Scientific
Glassware of every kind, is free.
Shall we send you a copy?
WILSON NAFIS 8 CO. LTD.
Wharf Street, Brisbane, 0.
Be the First in the Field
—Get the Biggest Yield
I am the solution of the early rising
problem for the man who wants to be
“first in the field.” My name is BIG
BEN. I get you up on time for I’m a
timekeeper , not an ordinary alarm clock.
I’m known as the “big watch with a
breakfast bell.” I never fail. You can
depend on me. I tell the true time all
the time. I wake you “on the dot.”
My bell rings steadily until you are
wide awake, or gives you a short ring at
the appointed hour and several reminder
rings at intervals for several minutes —
just as you choose to set me.
Keep me in the sleeping room and
you’ll be “ bright and early ” in the field
each morning. Get me for the farm
hands, too, and you’ll not have to wait
for them. Your work will begin on time
and you’ll get the most done every day.
I am seven inches tall, I’m massive,
well poised and triple plated. My face
is frank, open, easy to read —my keys
large, strong, easy to wind. I am two
alarms in one —a 5 minute long alarm,
and a 10 minute intermittent alarm.
I am made in La Salle, Illinois,
U.S.A., by Westclox. My price is 12/6,
postage 1/- extra. If you cannot find
me in your town, send a money order to
my makers’ Australian office, Westclox,
63 Pitt Street, Sydney, and they
will have the nearest jeweller forward
me to you at once.
BIG BEN
Pears’
Annual
for
Christinas
1913
A PERFECT FEAST
OF HUMOUR AND
ARTISTIC BEAUTY.
With a delightful cover,
reproducing a water-colour
drawing, representing
“A Village Church
by Moonlight on
Christmas Eve,”
By FRANK DADD.r.i.
A Superb and Unique Issue
containing
A Dozen Merry Stories by a
Dozen Merry Authors;
"DAGONET"
BARRY PAIN
T. P.O'CONNOR, M.P.
CHARLES PEARS
FRANK RICHARDSON
PETT RIDGE
MAX PEMBERTON
GEO. R. SIMS
OLIVER ONIONS
W. LE QUEUX
KEBLE HOWARD
JAMES BURNLEY
with drawings by a
Dozen Merry Artists :
E. T. PARRIS.
H. M BROCK, R.I.
HARRY FURNISS
THE AUTHOR
A. C, GOULD
FRED ROE. R.I.
L. RAVEN-HILL
WILL OWEN
LAWSON WOOD
FRANK DADD, RI.
JOHN HASSAI L.R.I.
G. S. WRIGHT
Three
Presentation Plates
each Printed In twelve colours.
1. PETS. From an original picture by
G. SHERIDAN KNOWLES, R.I.
2. THE OLD FARM. From a painting by
J. F. HtRRING.
3. APPETISING. A Charming Still Life
Study by E. LADELL.
Together with
Four Humorous Full-Page
Plates in Colours
entitled “THE CHRISTMAS GUEST”
by G. S. WRIGHT.
A Page of Comical Contrasts, “ The Old Ghosts and the
New,” byW.K.HASELDEN, and A Page of Caricatures
by E. T. REED.
Sold by all Booksellers
and Newsagents.
Agents for Australasia:
GORDON & GOTCH.
Victor Scott will join Aubrey Dennistoun Hoad in
his Australian tour next year. When the mail left
S’Africa, Scott was playing Richard Jelf in “Jelf’s,”
and Richard Lomas in “The Explorer.” Both of
these plays will be produced during the Australian
season. The co. is due to sail from Capetown by
the Ceramic on December 30, arriving in Melbourne
about January 18. The Australian season will open
in Melbourne at the latter end of February. The
co. is now playing at Durban, where it followed
Oscar Asche.
There are some good yarns in Jimmy Glover’s new
book of reminiscences. (Jimmy was for years con-
ductor of the orchestra at Drury Lane, London.)
One is about E. T. Smith, father of Melbourne’s
Dr. £ £. Smith had got into bad odor with
the London magistrates on account of the gay
style in which he had run Cremorne Gardens, largely
patronised by ladies of elastic virtue. So when, he
applied for a license for a new hall in Surrey Gard-
ens, South London, the Bench emphatically refused.
Presently the Bishop of London requested the use of
the hall for a Sunday afternoon meeting, and Smith
gladly consented. In winding up, the Bishop said:
“Dear brethren, we will conclude this afternoon’s
good work by singing the Doxology.” “No, you
can’t,” yelled Smith from the rear of the crowded
hall: “it’s against the law. T haven’t got a music
license—the magistrates won’t let you.” A week
later an influentially signed petition was presented
to the magistrates, and the artful Smith got his
license.
“Private Boxer”: Julius Knight has been' telling
that “Man and Superman” was most successful in
Maoriland. “We sold six motor-cars!” said J.K.
“Wherever the play was staged a motor-car was
secured from the local garage for the piece. It was
always a show car, and it was purchased by some
member of the audience next day.” This will be
tidings of great joy for Bernard Shaw. I shouldn’t
wonder if he gives permission for the maker’s name
and the spot-cash price to be conspicuously placed on
the car in future. There are great possibilities in
the idea. I haven’t heard whether Londoners rushed
to purchase the property lions when Shaw’s “An-
drocles” was running, but I dare say they did. Any-
way, a chance was missed if business wasn’t pushed
that way.
“C. Ockney”: The old days of beating the drum
outside the show will be returning soon if business
doesn’t wake up in London. Already the managers
are shedding a good deal of their dignity, as you’l]
see from an announcement of the present entertain-
ment at the Queen’s Theatre, Shaftesbury Avenue: —
“This Way, Madam!”
Maurice Farkoa,
and the Eight Prettiest Girls in England,
and only Two Married — Which?
It may draw all the “nuts” ; but, O England, my
England !
“Abjoneselem” f If I were an English music-hall
audience permitted to select my own shilling’s-worth,
I’d command Lauder for comedy, Cinquevalli for
skill, Lydia Kyasht for grace, Carlton for damnon-
sense, Houdini for sensation, Bransby Williams for
culture, Mark Sheridan for joviality, and Effie Fay for
novelty. The whole show wouldn’t cost more than
£l2OO a week or so providing we gave Lauder half
what he asked, and Paul Cinquevalli’s would be the
cheapest (and possibly the best) item on the bill. I
could also mention a few £lOO-a-week artists I’d
like to engage. I’d set them to take tickets.
“Smudge”: George V.’s missus, who is said to have
discountenanced riding astride by ladies at the last
London horse show, was taught dancing by Taglioni.
Gen6e never taught a princess, but she has collected
more salary than Taglioni ever did. Taglioni’s best
contract was for six years at £4O weekly. Gen6e,
1 have it on authority warranted not to swindle, col-
lects £6OO every Fri’night, out of which she pays the
dancers that came out with her. Thirteen weeks qr
so lost in travelling bring the average down a trifle.
Loie Fuller —at London Shaftesbury, I believe—got
£5OO for about an hour’s dancing spread over a
week. In her day the Australian girl Saharet (her
husband was in Australia lately) got more salary
than any contemporary kicker. At one time she
caused a nightly riot in Berlin by kicking her slipper
among the audience, and the resulting scrambles were
valued by the management at £3OO a week.
“J.F.H.” (London) : That baronetcy has been the
ruin of J. M. Barrie ; it has robbed him of his punch.
His latest, “Half an Hour,” at the Hippodrome, is
such very poor stuff that nobody would have sus-
pected it was Barrie’s if Barrie hadn’t claimed it;
just a series of disjointed melodramatic episodes,
crowded into 30 minutes, jangling on the eternal
triangle of husband, lover and wife. The lover gets
run over by a motor-car just after leaving the wife,
and that brings about the complications. As to
Barrie’s second-last piece, “The Adored One”—the
play that had such a tempestuous first night—the re-
vised version is really little better than the original.
Instead of Mrs. Patrick Campbell actually committing
murder or manslaughter by throwing the man out of
the railway carriage for opening the window when
her little daughter was suffering from a cold, she
now dreams she did it; and this dream-afterthought
only adds to the incoherency of the thing.
The record price for a picture film is said to be
the £BlOO just paid at auction for the British Isles
rights, for three years, in the sumptuous new Italian
rendering of “Antony and Cleopatra.” The auc-
tioneer —who never lies —declared that it had taken
nearly 10,000 people about a year to prpduce. The
buyer was offered £lOOO on his bargain almost as
soon as the hammer fell—and, of course, that’s a
thing no one ever lies about, either.
“Circle”: It is a beautiful moonlight night, and
the man next door is tearing it to bits with a
vicious banjo selection on his gramophone. I dislike
banjo solos, because they remind me of O’Donnell,
the banjo player who used to live next door, when I
was a kid, and thrash his young family when he
wasn’t plucking at his snarling instrument. The hot
and furious banjo music always recalls to me those
long nights of “Swanee River,” and the stinging
slaps and red-hot howls of the smitten. After each
trampling charge across the kitchen floor and a
chorus of yells and bloodthirsty threats, the uproari-
ous family would settle down once more to listen to
the next attack on the fretting, snapping strings. I
don’t think I ever saw O’Donnell r if I did I have
completely forgotten what he was like. But when a
neighbor starts a snarling gramophone selection, or
a couple of smooth-haired gentlemanly players plant
their chairs at the footlights, cross their legs, and
commence their elegant and refined twanging, I am
straightway back in the past, listening fearfully to
that extraordinary neighbor whose two hobbies were
music and battery.
“Harrison O.”: Though a li.C. did‘have a hand
in the authorship of “A Butterfly on the Wheel,” I
want to take it to the Full Court. After the
Divorce Court Judge has ruled" that an anonymous
letter making allegations against respondent and co-
respondent is not evidence, he himself reads it to the
jury, and allows counsel to cross-examine the respond-
ent in regard to it. I want the whole proceedings
quashed for irregularity. «*..* •
“Stargazer”: The living pictures have been accused
of inspiring the young of man with wicked and
criminal ideas. My accusation is much more grave.
I charge the picture-play with infusing a dangerous
and unwholesome sentimentality into the young Aus-
tralian soul. The abominable bathos of the average
dramatic film is calculated to produce a soggy and
sickly moral attitude in our boys, dangerous to their
mentality, and more devoutly to be condemned than
a wayward disposition, as evidenced in the stealing of
cherries, or even a tendency to ape the devices of
the Bold Colonial Boy. At South Melbourne recently
a small boy, aged 11, was discovered trying to hang
himself. He said his father had insulted his honor.
The old man had flailed him with a strap for
some dereliction. This bright youth explained that
he had derived his high sense of personal dignity from
a Yankee picture play. In another case, a
kid of 13 was caught taking 6d. from a
relation’s till, whereupon he sent a faded rose and
a small handkerchief to a young lady of 12, with the
message: “I return your things. I am no longer
worthy of you. I go to a far land to retrieve my
good name.” This hopeful was found stowed away bn
a wheat ship. He, too, confessed that lie had
acquired a sense of honor at picture shows.


Shipping.
P. and O. BRANCH SERVICE.
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Via MELBOURNE and ADELAIDE.
Wireless insi ailed.
PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION AMIDSHIPS.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
LONDON £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l7 17s.
Tickets for return, via Suez (second-class), P. and
O. Mail, from £49 19s. to £53 11s.
CILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne: John Sanderson k Co., 11l William St.
Adelaide and Fremantle Agents: Geo. Wills & Co.,
Limited.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N, CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Ranking, Public Companies, &c.
Minimum
Deposit.
ON
FRIDAY
EVENING
£5OO
Interest
Limit.
take a portion of your pay to the local
Branch of the Government Savings Bank.
Even 1/- will open an account and put you
on the road to saving.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
THE STATE SAVINGS INSTITUTION.
118 BRANCHES and OVER 500
AGENCIES IN THE STATE.
31 Per
2 Cent.
Interest on
First £3OO
This Bank has
no Agencies at
Post Offices.
Head Office :
11 Moore Street,
SYDNEY.
J. H. Davies, Secretary
On Excess
to £5OO
THE
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £382,500.
Directors: Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY;
Hon. ROBERT PHILP, M.L.A. ; Hon. A. J.
THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 242 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. ..£2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,534
PAID-UP (30th June, 1913) ..£1,195,398
RESERVE FUND £25,000
HSAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE —2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS—Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man ; George J. Sly. Esq., LL.D. ; Chas. H.
Myles, Esq. ; Mark Sheldon, Esq ; Arthur S.
Barton, Esq. ; Frank N. Yaiiwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital . . . . . . £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid-Up .. •• •• 413.418 0 0
Reserve • • - • • • 142,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091.669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since JS93 specialize protected.
Director o—-las. 0 —-las. Munro, Esq. (Chairman) ; John
Cameron, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. ; Geo. Edw. Bunning,
Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE ... - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland. . '
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Colonial Mutual Qife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office :
449 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds,, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £6,000.000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Jndefeas-
' moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
58 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
The
U he
Directors:
Hon. C. J. Roberts. 0.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
Hon. Bruce Smith, K.G.. M.P.
A. ROSS MTLLER, Resident Secretary.
NORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD, N.D.L.
IMPERIAL MAIL STEAMERS,
TO COLOMBO, SUEZ, NAPLES, GENOA, ALGIERS,
SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP. AND BREMEN.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Installation.
All Steamers fitted with Laundrv.
FARES TO LONDON: 1., £7l/10/-; 11., £4O;
111., £l5 to £l9. RETURN: I„ £lO7/5/-; 11.,
£6O; 111., £3O 12'- to £37/16/
LOHMAN'fff'and CO., General Agents, 7 Bridge-st.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE.
*The largest and Finest Steamer trading between
Australia and San Francisco.
Around World and Around Pacific Tours.
Steamers stop 24 Hours at Papeete—the
“ Pearl of the Pacific.”
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
Shipping.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
Twin and Triple-screw Steamers.
AFRIC, 12,000 tons, about DEO. 13.
SUEVIC, 12,500 tons, about DEC. 24.
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, about JAN. 14.
CERAMIC, 18,500 tons, about FEB. 18
Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
Screw Turbine. Largest vessel to Australia.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pares —Capetown or Durban, £l5 15 0t0£24 3 0
London . . . . 1.9 0 oto 30 0 0
New York. Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, etc., from 25 0 0
Melbourne .. .. 1 10 0
PAMPHLETS AND ALL INFORMATION ON APPLI-
CATION. Luggage Received Only on Day of Sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
Australian Steamships Line
UNSURPASSED PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Fast Passenger Steamers
Sail as follows (circumstances permitting-)
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
*CAIRNS
(*Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports). J
For i
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping' for j
S.A. and W.A. ports).
NORTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Nov. 29
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Dee. 3
Leaves Sydney', December 6
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Dec. 10
Leaves Sydney Dec. 13
SOUTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Nov. 29
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Dec. 6
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Weeks’ Holiday*
in the South Seas.
The BURNS PHILP Steamer “MAKAMBO” (fitted with Electric Light and
Refrigerator), leaving Sydney on the 31st December, 1913. for VILA (New
Hebrides), via LORD HOWE AND NORFOLK ISLANDS, and returning
again on the 22nd January, provides the opportunity of a restful and pleasant
CRUISE in the SOUTHERN PACIFIC, with a home on the Steamer the
whole time.
ROUND TRIP FARE (DECK CABIN), £l9/5/-; ORDINARY, £l7/10/-
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 11 Bridge Street, Sydney
BANK OF NFW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
£3,253,540
£2,250,000
£3,253,540
£8,757,080
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, Kt., M.L.C.,
President.
The Hon. Reginald dames Black, M.L.C. '
Thomas Bnckland, Ksq._ .
Kichard Binnie, Esq.
The lion. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
The Hon. Janies T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
AUDITORS:
Shepheard Edgecliff Laidlev, George Milson, Esq.
Head Office— George St.. Sydney.
London Office-29 Threadneedle St., E.C.
335 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London, Agents
and Correspondents throughout the World.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE
WtMU.D. J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen, Esq Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Rater. M.L.C. . . Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, E-q.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: E. S. Cape, Esq., and F. W. Hixson, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Bir cliin - Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. H. S.
Littleton ; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
gank of |) eu| Z ea,anl *-
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING.
GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock . . • • • • £1,000,000
Preference Shares .. • • • • 500,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
up ' 500,000
Uncalled Capital 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,418,117
GRANTS DRAFTS
tain and Ireland,
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Bri-
and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other usual Banking business.
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid : TJp . . •• • •£538,307
Hesferve Ijiabilitv of Shareholders.. .. 159,0.54
Reserve Fund (invested in Govt. Stoop) ■ • 76,500
£ 773,861
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Gen. Man., Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
rpHE Best Stories written in Australia
JL appear in The Bone Hand each month.
Price <3d.'
A Whole Week Saved
SYDNEY to SAN FRANCISCO by the
Oceanic Steamship Company
10.000 tons, Twin Screw Steamers. 17 knots,
Classed 100 A 1 at British Llovds.
CABINS DE LUXE with BATHS.
SAILINGS PROM SYDNEY—
The through trip to England can be accomplished
in 29 Days via Samoa, Honolulu, San Francisco.
RETURN TICKETS GOOD BY P. &0., ORIENT LINE,
N.D.L., N.Z .S. Co. and 8. 8. & A. Co.
Tel. 2282 City. Apply—44 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
THE North Coast Steam
1 Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larlv to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COPE’S HAR-
BOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- pr second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads—steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
steamer. £6 Bs. 6d. ; second-class rail and steerage
on steamer. £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars applv:
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
Z<3W Points
/m/entors
CAN 1 OBTAIN A PATENT?
The quickest way to ascertain
this, WITHOUT EXPENSE, is
to write to me describing your invention, enclosing
a small sketch where necessary. Nicety of drawing
is riot essential; all that is necessary at first is to
give me YOUR IDEA.
I will at once inform you whether the idea is
patent-abie, and, if so. give the necessary instructions
t ior further procedure.
Persons desirous of obtaining really reliable advice
or information regarding Patent matters are cordi-
ally invited to consult me personally or by letter. In
all cases a careful consideration of their plans, an
honest opinion, and a prompt reply may be
expected.
A. J. CsALLINAN, Patent Attorney,
Citizens’ Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Shipping;.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP Cl),
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE t* and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports. '
FOR MELBOURNE %
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports. }
T.S.S WARILDa (7713
tons), Tuesday I) e .
centner 9.
T.S'.S. WANmi,LA(77?S
tons), fitted Wireless
Telegraphy, Saturday
December 20.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
GRANTALA, Nov. 29.
INNAMINCKA, Deo. 9.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YU ILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
Via FIJI AND HONOLULU.
CANADIAN - AUSTRALASIAN II M
LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
AROUND THE WORLD TOURS.
FIRST AND SECOND CLASS.
SAILINGS :
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OP N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Federal & Shire Lines
STEAM TO LONDON AND LIVERPOOL
(SALOON ONLY).
S.S. MORAYSHIRE.
9000 Tons. CAPTAIN HOWARD.
SYDNEY' . . . . NOVEMBER 29, 1913
MELBOURNE . . . . DECEMBER 2, 1913
Fares to London, £4O.
Excellent accommodation for Saloon Passengers on
Upper Deck Amidships. Electric Light throughout.
Fitted with Wireless.
Successful vaccination certificates and signed sur-
veillance forms or exemption certificates must be pre-
sented before passengers can be booked.
For illustrated pamphlets and full information
apply to
BIRT & CO. LIMITED, Sydney.
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & CO. PTY., LTD.,
Melbourne.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“llimaroa,” “Wimmera.”
“Riverina,” “Victoria
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH A ALL NEW ZEALAND POUTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COI.LINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYI>|NEY.
And All Ports.
fI.U.S.N. Co. Ltd
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip and
the enjoyment of beautiful scenery sh °“ k t JL ers
In- the A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company s steaune
possesses all up-to-date arrangements tor <-
venienee and comfort, making travel sat ,
and pleasant. After first port of call! jj
Second Saloon Tickets are interchangeable witn
Interstate Companies, also with the Union s.o-'J'J
steamers in the Fiji Trade; particulars onPP Ask
tion. For dates of sailing see Daily I apers.
for a Printed Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP 8 COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:


Hotels, &c.
ill
Georoe
St. Kilda,
HOTEL,
Mel bourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 13 - per day.
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It is
the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
11
V:
Gent’s
flertex
Cellular
Combinations.
SINGLET and
TRUNK DRAWERS.
White 6/6 S 2
The most comfort-
able form of
Underwear, and,
being of Aertex
Cellular, the
most healthy.
Made also in other
plain and fancy
Cottons, Lisle
Threads, Woollens,
and Silks.
tVhen ordering
state height and
size of chest.
AGENTS IN
N.S.W. —
76 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
(Next door to Farmer's.)
DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
Williams’ Holder Top
Shaving Stick.
This is the good old
Shaving Stick known to
every gentleman
in Australia, but
now presented in
a new and attrac-
tive form, greatly
enhancing it s
convenience and
economy.
RFORATI
PfQRATI
WIIMSC
Your chemist will be glad
to show It to you.
m
"XT?
au
IlfHIIIHil!!:,
•5=- - DOBS
KILL COCKROACHES
PROCURABLE FROM:—
George Gough & Son, Ltd., Bris-
bane.
IT. H. Groth & Co., Sydney.
London Pharmacy, Ipswich, Q’land
G. R. Smith, Townsville, ~
Lomas & Co., Warwick, ~
Jack & Co., Dalby, ~
Bryant & McLean, Roma, ~
E. S. Hale, Bundaberg, ~
Newbery & Shambler, Gympie,,,
Peak & Co., Toowoomba, ~
Williams, Ltd., Rockhampton, ~
Lamberts, Ltd., Mackay, ~
Alex. Campbell & Sons,
Maryborough, „
And all reliable Storekeepers throughout
Australasia.
Agents wanted in West & South Australia.
Write to GOUGH’S, BRISBANE.
T'lIE Australian Magazine —THE LONE
1 HAND. The National -Monthly. Price, 6(1.
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFICE
Bank of Hustralfa
SYDNEY
Branches are open for the transaction of GENERAL BANKING BUSINESS at
New South Wales —Sydney. Federal Capital— Canberra. Victoria —Melbourne.
Queensland —Brisbane. Rockhampton, and Townsville. South Australia —Adelaide.
Western Australia —Perth. Tasmania—Hobart. And at 36-38 NEW BROAD ST., London.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, foreign places direct. Foreign bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of credit and circular notes issued to any part of the world. Bills negotiated or
forwarded for collection. Banking and Exchange business of every description transacted within
the Commonwealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Interest paid on fixed deposits.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.
Branches are open at 3 Moore Street. Sydney; 317 Collins Street. Melbourne; Queen Street,
Brisbane; Royal Exchange. 96 King William Street, Adelaide; St. George’s Terrace,
Perth; Elizabeth Street. Hobart; and Canberra (Federal Capital); and 1900 Agencies at
Post Offices which issue Money Orders in the Australian Commonwealth and Papua,
from 9 a.m. to o p.m. daily, and noon Saturday*.
All Branch Offices are open for deposits and withdrawals on Friday, 7 to 9 p.m.
Withdrawals on demand may be effected at any office within the Common wealth.
1/- Minimum Deposit. 3 % Rate of Interest on all Deposits up to £3OO.
JAMES KELL, Deputy Governor. . 1 August, 1913. DENISON MILLER, Governor.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queens-
land offers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars,
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
THE EM PI RE ALWAYS!!
The SILENT EMPIRE
Bioscope is still leading
We have recently disposed of a complete
shipment to users throughout N.S.W.
Another shipment has just arrived, and is
well worth the inspection of every Showman.
The Machine is now greatly im-
proved and it is unbeatable.
The Empire with the Kelvin Electric Generat-
ing Set is the ideal combination for the up-to-
date Picture Palace.
We issue a Special Booklet dealing with this
matter. Send for one.
KELVIN
GENERATING SET
We have in Stock at present several Second-hand Bioscope Plants at
Remarkably Low Prices. Particulars on application.
“EVERYTHING FOR THE PICTURE SHOWMAN.”
JERDANS Ltd.
393 George Street,
SYDNEY.
You Long for a Full Moustache?
THEN —DSE
CAPILLARINE.
This splendid moustache grower is a most astonishing aid to all
who wish to possess a full, flowing, manly moustache. CAPILLARINE
does not cause injury to the skin—it is not an experiment, but a
proved success. A smart moustache would surely improve your appear-
ance., Prove the merits of Capillarine—get a jar to-day.
PRICE 10/0 PER JAR, POST FREE.
The C. & A~. Moustache Trainer, worn at night, shapes the moustache.
2/6, 3/6, 5/6, Post Free. Send for Illustrated Price List.
.CRAIG & AITKEN
654 George Street, Sydney.
Established 30 Years.
dive a sense of security which carries
the user confidently over the roughest
roads by night or day.
I w
wmmmsmm
m
i' ' .I.
m
■
AVON Products include the following Articles
MOTOR,
MOTOR-CYCLE 8
CYCLE TYRES,
in many qualities
and patterns.
Specially suited
for hard Colonial
use, on account of
their renowned
durability.
C Y C L E-C A It
TYIt E S for all
types of this popu-
lar new vehicle.
SOLID TYRES
FOR MOTORS,
etc.
Stool Band Type
for ’buses and other
heavy vehicles.
Clinched-on type
for lighter vehicles
up to 2 tons.
Carriage Tyres,
’Rickshaw Tyres,
Trolley Tyres, etc.
GOLF BALLS.
Made up on a spe-
cial centre 'which
forms the nucleus
for the winding of
Para tape.
Avon, 2/-; Nova,
1/3; Arc, 1/j,
(Several types).
Strip for insulating,
golf-hall making,
etc.
Compounded Rub-
ber and Proofed
Canvas for tyre re-
pairs.
Heel Pads in vari-
ous patterns.
MECHANICAL
RUBBER GOODS
FOR RAILWAYS,
etc.
Rrtffer and Draw-
bar Springs, Vac-
ua m Pipes. Dia-
phragms and other
Brake Materials;
Body Fittings:
Valves; Hose, etc.,
specially adapted
for use in the
Tropics.
THE AVON INDIA RUBBER CO., LTD.
(Cable Codes: — A.B.C. sth Edition \
V and Western Union. '
MELKSHAM Wilts., ENGLAND.
Branches at London, Bristol, Birmingham, Manchester, Glasgow and Paris.
AUSTRALIA: H. C. Panifex, Melbourne, Victoria; Fothergil & Co., 16
Mouatt Street, Fremantle.
NEW ZEALAND: Guinness & Le Cren, Waimate, Agents for Avon Motor and
Motor Cycle Tyres & Accessories; Grapes & Riley, Agents for Avon Solid
Tyres for Commercial Vehicles, Mechaiycal Rubbers and Golf Balls.
Deaf People
Hear Whispers
With Common-Sense Ear Drums—
“ Wireless ’Phones for the Ears.”
£?•
For twenty years the Common-Sense
Ear Drums have been giving good hear-
ing to hundreds ot' thousands of deaf
people. Every condition of deafness or
defective hearing is being
helped and cured, such as
Catarrhal Deafness, Relaxed
or Sunken Drums, Thickened
Drums, Roaring and Hissing
Sounds, Perforated or Parti-
ally Destroyed Drums, Drums
wholly Destroyed, Discharge
from Ears. No matter, how
long standing the case may
be, there is hope of good hear-
ing for all the afflicted deaf.
The Common-Sense Ear Drums are made of soft,
sensatised material, comfortable and safe to
wear. They are out of sight when worn, and
easily adjusted by wearer.
Good hearing brings cheerfulness, comfort and
sunshine into the life of the lonely deaf. The
total cost is £l—why not order to-day?
ORDER FORM.
STAR NOVELTY CO., .
103 Arlington ChaVnfvefs,
229 Collihs' f-Sfreet, Melbourne.
Please send ipe an Outfit containing a pair of
Wilson Common-Sertse Ear Drums, an Inserter
and a Remover, for which I enclose One Pound.
Name '
Address
NOTE.—Send Money .Order or Postal Note.
If a Bank Note or Sovereign is sent, you must
register it.
THE DRUM
(N POSITION
When something is wanted
to put on a burn or scald,
to heal a cut, scratch,
or skin sore, apply
Calvert’s
Carbolic Ointment
It soon relieves the soreness and pro-
motes a qui k cure, while for a skin
wound especially its antiseptic virtue is
important. On other occasions also
it is useful—for insect bites or stings,
for eczema, ringworm, and skin ail-
ments generally—whenever a healing
antiseptic ointment is needed.
Local Stores and Chemists sell it.
Made by F. C. CAL VERT & Co., M anchester, Eng.
HORL'CKS
MALTED MILK
gives Health and Strength. It
has a delicious taste, ready for
use and requires no cooking.
It’s the cream of the finest
milk and cereals in powder
form and it means health.
Ask for
Horlick’s <*t
* r *»T3 IKVW-'^
A*DTR*
—-
s,
SCrrr
the Soda
Fouti tain
For the Country Horseman
The saddle here illustrated is expressly designed
for country use, for stock riding, etc., and is built
of the best materials throughout. If any of our
friends are requiring such a saddle they will find
this a genuine bargain.
It has a hogskin seat, a plated bar-tree, extra
long flaps, with points to buckle below. An economi-
cal feature is the skirt, which extends all round
and thus adds years of wear to the saddle by pro-
tecting its interior from the weather. It has a
deep, “sweepy” seat, 4in. kneepads, nickel-plated
iron stirrups, and double buckle leather girth. The
price complete is £3/15/- Mention of The
Bulletin when ordering will ensure your having a
leather surcingle given in free, and the saddle will
be forwarded freight paid. It is to be obtained
from J. P. Talty, 388 Sussex Street, Sydney.
/
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘ARABIS’
Egyptian Henna before all others; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive you. Look for the signa-.
ture of Alfred Ardley on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.,


Diamond Sole Boots
Outwear Two Pairs of
Ordinary Kind.
Because the process Diamond Soles
undergo gives them a wear-resisting
hardness that is astonishing, yet at the
same time leaving the leather pliable,
comfortable, waterproof, and non-slip-
ping. The style illustrated is a
Men’s Wallaby Bal., with
or without Cap, Welted
Diamond Sole
POST FREE.
16,6 p - >ir
FINNEY’S,
The Big
Block,
BRISBANE
XMAS NUMBER. XMAS NUMBER.
THE NEW
LONE HAND
will be on sale everywhere on
Ist DECEMBER.
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL MAGAZINE
ENLARGED AND IMPROVED.
XMAS NUMBER. XMAS NUMBER.
HOW TO NEUTRALISE DANGEROUS
STOMACH ACIDS.
Few people besides physicians realise the
importance of keeping the food contents o
the stomach free from acid fermentation.
Healthy normal digestion cannot take pan
while the delicate lining of the stomach
being inflamed and distended by acid an
wind —the results of fermenting food in t
stomach. To secure perfect digestion, tei'
mentation must be stopped or prevented, an
the acid neutralised. this purpose pn.
sicians usually recommend getting a htn
bisurated magnesia from the chemist an
taking half a teaspoonful in a little hot
cold water immediately after eating, hn .
recommend bisurated magnesia because it
pleasant to take, has no disagreeable ait
effects, and instantly stops fermentatio ,
neutralises the acid and makes the sour, a
food bland, sweet and easily digested.
The regular use of bisurated magnesia
be sure you get the bisurated, as other kin
of magnesia are of little value —is an aD
lute guarantee of heallkv, normal digest: •
for it overcomes and prevents that acid co
dition which alone is the cause of trouble.
IN BANANA LAND
“Parpooah” on a northern lizard :
“Gil Gnnnia” had some fine sport with ’gators up
in North Queensland (B. 6/11/’l3), but if he wants
to see the genuine article he should travel up to
Papua. The Queensland ’gator's cousin is much
larger and more ferocious game, and the Purari
River, where I had my little bit of fun, is half water
and the rest alligator. The natives there are genu-
inely afraid of him ; and no wonder, for many of the
villages mysteriously lose a citizen now and again,
and the ’gator gets all the credit. At Kai-angei,
which is on the Upper Purari, one old monster had
the village terrorised during February of this year.
He prowled about the village streets in the half-light
of morning and evening, snapping up unwary or weary
spirits. His last victim was part of the local con-
stabulary. A mass meeting then decided that his
own funeral was due. The subsequent proceedings
were like this. A hog, much deceased, was deposited
in a likely spot close to where the police “boy” was
taken. Six of the bravest offered to stand by handy
with spears, and I and two other worthies had ropes
to lasso him or otherwise impede his escape. About
dusk we started the watch, the Papuans’ teeth chat-
tering with fear or fury, and the evening zephvf
redolent of old pig. That the latter was a most
effective bait was proved by two small fry being
attracted within a few minutes. Both were des-
patched without a scuffle and were carted out of
sight by the inhabitants. After a 20 minutes’ wait
the village terror was seen approaching. Thirty
yards off he lifted up his nose to the breeze. It was
a satisfactory sniff, so on he came with a definite pur-
pose. After nosing the pig once or twice he lifted
it in his great jaws and wheeled round for the water.
That was our signal. We rushed him with spears
and ropes. One lasso caught him on the tail; but with a
tremendous sweep he pulled the unwary Papuan in, and
gave him a clout which quietened him for a few
hours. Our game could have escaped then, but he
didn’t want to drop the pig. The others kept prod-
ding him with the spears and then side-stepping,
for he could only make swift, straight lunges. Things
were getting serious, so he dropped the pig and ran
I whipped out my bull’s-eye electric torch and
headed him. The sudden flash left him helpless and
floundering. He dashed into a tree and nearly took
the leg off one of the natives with a vicious snap ;
then two of them battened on to his tail with the
rope. He dragged them round and round, while the
others riddled him with spears and I kept the search-
light on. After that it was only a matter of time
for him to surrender. The brute measured 13 feet.
“Mimosa”: It was at the first funeral in
Nebo (Q.). There was no parson, and
nobody knew any form of burial service ; so
the little crowd did what it thought the best
under the circumstances, and chorused “He
Was a Jolly Good Fellow.”
“McN.”: To anyone who is anxious to
revel in discomfort, let me recommend a
course of b§che-de-mer fishing. Six months
spent in pursuit of the repulsive slug-of-the-
sea in its native haunts should be enough
to satisfy the greatest glutton for wretched-
ness. The usual method is to obtain a five-
or six-ton cutter, fitted with a smoke house
and boiler for curing the catch, and half a
dozen Binghis for a crew. Then, having
laid in a supply of wood and water and
rations, the outfit goes out and anchors on
the ed~' of some reef where the beche-de-mer
has its lair. At low water the Binghis are
sent out in dinghies, from which they dive
and search the bottom for slugs which hap-
pen to be looking the other way. As each
black streak returns to the surface he places
his catch in the dinghy, and when a sufficient
quantity is obtained it is taken to the
cutter. This is continued while the low tide
lasts. The day’s catch is then boiled and
smoked, and great and wonderful is the smell
thereof. Then at night, while the cutter
tries to stand on its head by reason of the
high tide flowing over the reef, and the bub-
FATHER'S FINISH.
FAMILY SCAPEGRACE (late at breakfast, having been to see the big fight the previous even-
ing): "Father not down yet ?”
STERN MOTHER : "Down? Yes, down and out."
FAMILY SCAPEGRACE: “Great Scott! Who punched him?"
bling of the beche-de-mer in the boiler is ren-
dered somewhat indistinct by its own odor
and that of the perspiring Binghis only a
few feet away, the man-in-charge, in his
stuffy 6xB cabin, tries to read by the light
of a smoky, swinging lamp, and wonders if
he is quite sane to suffer so much discomfort
in order to supply Sin Chung with his well-
beloved worms.
Brisbane doesn’t love Badger’s trams, but
if Shudders at aldermanic control —-and
shudders more than usual on learning that
the Kangaroo Point ferry, a municipal con-
cern, has been run since 1910 at a loss of
£4O a week! Bumble isn’t a genius at most
times and aniywherc; but in Brisbane he
reaches the limit as a bungler.
The Courier dropped like a ton of pota-
toes on to Denham the other day. That
politician had remarked, re Rankin’s Bill
to regulate prices of sugar-cane: “If legis-
lation is necessary to deal with the prices of
sugar-cane, the Federal Government is the
authority to pass it.” Whereupon the
Courier, remembering its State Frights,
waved its umbrella and reminded Mr.
Denham that “at the same time he
has been counselling the States to
resist all attempts on the part of the Federal
Government to acquire power to deal with
the subject.” _ Denham’s retort is still pend-
ing, and is likely to go on pending indefi-
nitely.
Queensland Parliament is legislating on
the “age of consent,” and raising it, at Mrs.
Stiggins’s instigation, to 17. A proposal to
protect boys of 14 or 15 from the wiles of
young Flossie hussies was laughed out of
the Council. Yet there was nothing to laugh
at, as any middle-aged policeman can testify.
In reply to a question in the Leg.
Assembly, Minister for Railways Paget
stated that the cost of petrol per mile for
driving the McKeen (United States) auto-
car was Is. 6d., while the fuel cost per mile
of the State’s most powerful locomotive
(B 17) was 3|d. And the 817 is good to
haul a load of 200 tons, while the other
contraption looks at a load with a severe
frown. It transpired in a recent law-suit
that Queensland originally intended to
order a herd of 10 of these white elephants
instead of five. It was a narrow escape.
“Gouger”: The corn cockies in North
Queensland’s most Chow-saturated district,
Atherton, had their self-esteem greatly
shocked recently. A lecturer, talking on
political matters, had passed through
Mareeba, and on arriving at Atherton the
local celebrities duly called and asked the
honor of his oratory. “Gentlemen,” said
the lecturer, “I am a fair linguist, and have
the tongues of four nations at my command ;
Lut I am sorry to say I have never learned
Chinese.”
Disappeared four months ago, R. A.
McDonald, Clerk of Prisons, a capable offi-
cial and good fellow. Books in perfect
order-; private finances healthy; balance in
several banks. A bachelor, with, apparently,
no worries. The body has now been found
in a clump of lantana by the river. The
vyhy and wherefore of the obvious suicide is
a complete mystery.
Premier Denham attributes the defeat of
the Via Recta railway scheme to the chag-
rin of members who did not get their own
railways. In short, members supported
Denham in return for Treasury plunder, and
when they couldn’t get it they threw Den-
ham over. Altogether, it makes a pretty
picture of Parliament under the party sys-
tem or swindle.
Monday, 24th inst., was a red-haired day
for Bananaland barbers, being the com-
mencement date for the new award directing
master shavers to close their saloons on
Saturday afternoons, and to pay a whole
20 shillings per hour for overtime and 2s.
per hour for casual help. The fixing of
the overtime pay at a sovereign an hour
was designed to utterly prevent work on
Saturday afternoons —which the suburban
master barber has hitherto regarded as his
own particular harvest time. The Indus-
trial Court is to be asked to revise the
award.
Pearls That Are Sleeping.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dearls that are sleeping in the deep of
Torres,
Unwitting what may fall;
Pearls that are pining on some dainty torso
To shine, a joy for all,
Regardless what maternal oyster bind you,
Pray whisper gently how may mortal find
you.
It helps me not to know that you are yearn-
ing
To see some mortal dive
To where you glisten near the caves of
umber,
Sepulchred, yet alive,
Unless you lend a hint of your location
To guide me in my submarine invasion.
Consider, pearls, unless you deign to aid
me,
Shut off from glorious day,
You’re doomed to pass a tame and dull
existence,
Perchance to fall a prey
To some crustacean thief who comes career-
ing,
Intent on naught but pelf and buccaneering.
Ye wot not, pearls, what neck of snowy
splendor
May pine to put you on;
What billowy swell of bosom soft and tender
May yet your glories don;
What lovely maiden hand may yet caress
you,
What pulse of girlish joy in rapture bless
you !
If words of mine, alas! are vain to move
you,
Consider her, I pray;
Shall she not flash beneath your gleaming
burden,
Where love-lamps softly play,
Her grace enhanced by your sfieeny white-
ness,
Her beauty stealing beauty from your bright-
ness?
Pearls! I would wrest you from that gloomy
prison,
Where strange sea-creatures are,
And bear you up to shine beneath the
heavens,
And hail each kindred star;
Would give you guerdon to the hands that
love you, '
With right to kiss the lips that smile above
you.
If this persuade you not to send a message
Upon some ocean swell,
No other plea (I feel with mournful presage)
Would touch you half so well,
And I must leave you by your deep-sea por-
tal
To hide for aye the sheen of gems immortal.
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP,
Brisbane, November 22, 1913
My Dear Tiiargomindaii.—
An outbreak of fetes agitated Hip tt„
Crust this afternoon. Lady Macg7eg 0 ?E
her benediction to one at Duneilan wher
members of the local branch of the rZ; ?
Church thanked her kindly and then hi££!
after the spare cash of the multitude ju
Corinda, Digby Denham’s lady was ft:
figure-head of a similar show, but this t;~ e
the dollar was the elusive prey of T
Church of England. Meanwhile, Mrs \v
H. Barnes was saying a piece at the Jovfni
News Mission grounds in the Valiev Th
epidemic will be continued next Saturday
We had a heat wave this week which kem
us all very uncivil for a few days Th
only energetic people in the hamlet'seemed
to be the Rose Day mating toilers The,
belong to no eight-hours union, but nad
from early morning to the latest possible
hour at night, screwing cash contributions
from the willing and unwilling, or fashioning
paper blooms for decorative purposes or
baskets for the sweets which are to be’snla
at a staggering profit.
Some of our exclusive inner circle have
recently gained certificates for first aid and
there seems to be a big chance of this useful
pastime spreading, Since the vice-regal ap-
proval has been bestowed on it. Both L a dv
Mac. and the Vision have become certificated
first-aiders. Others who will be able to bind
up the family accidents are May Feez and
Winifred Sutton. Just think how nice it
will be to have the Vision in attendance
should we faint at the races when our neddv
unexpectedly romps in first.
Mrs. Goddard gathered a few friends one
afternoon last week to tea and small talk
Mrs. Arthur Feez is conducting a similar
entertainment this afternoon, the motive of
this latter flutter being Miss Ivo Brennan,
whose marriage takes place next week.
The Lucinda carried about 500 friends of
the Irish Association for a blow on the
river this afternoon, and all was Erin-go-
bragh. P. J. MacDermott and Mrs. P. J,
did the honors of the day. By the way, P. J.
will form part of Digby Denham’s body-
guard to England.
Julius Superbus and co. have been making
up for some of the J.C.W. people’s stony
business in the South. Though the thermo-
meter has been hovering around 100° (and
even so far forgot itself as to spring up to
106°), many thousands of theatre-goers
cheerfully parted up their good coin in re-
turn for three hours of “Milestones.” The
piece pleased Brisbane, and when Brisbane’s
pleased it shells out handsomely. During its
spare time the co. is rehearsing “Diplomacy,”
which will be on the menu during the next
Sydney season.
On Friday night the clan Macgregor at-
tended the Superbus play and was drafted
into a specially-decorated pen by the head
drover or shepherd-usher. Only one
straggler broke away. That was the Vision,
and she was subsequently located with Mrs.
Iloss-Munro’s flock in the stalls.
Songbird Amy Murphy drifted into this
sun-heated locality last Monday on her way
to Townsville and Charters Towers, which
two cities have snared the singer for their
Liedertafel performances next week.
Lena Hammond, Gladys Frost and Lucy
Baker, with the assistance of singers J. E.
England and Crisp and pianist “Bobby”
Kaye, spread themselves over an evening’s
entertainment last week. The house con-
tained a large share of rival musicians, but
I didn’t hear a catty remark all night.
That’s what I call popularity.
The inter-State cricket match, at the Bris-
bane Cricket Ground, and the Commercial
Rowing Club’s regatta attracted a good
sprinkling of the public this afternoon, the
flapper sex being well represented at both
shows.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
Bananaland’s Department of Agriculture
laid itself out a while ago to develop
a market in London for chutney. The
condiment sold so well that the In-
dian chutney manufacturers got un-
easv. They dealt with the invader
by offering double-sized bottles at the same
price as before. Probably it isn’t as high
quality as before; probably Chunder Lees
paltry wages have been reduced; possibly
the manufacturers’ profits have been tem-
porarily diminished. Anyhow, the Indian
is knocking out the Bananaland sauce. Ann
the Agriculture Department fumes and
wants to know what is the good of a preferen-
tial tariff with John Bull? But why bother
with Bull at all? This country annually
imports several thousands of pounds’ worth
of chutney—among other sauces —on which
the fool tariff imposes a duty of Is. Sd. per
gallon —Is. 4d. preference —equal to perhaps
8 per cent, ad val. If the Commonwealtn
tariff were a serious effort to protect the
high-wage Australian from the competition
of the low-wage Hindoo, instead of being a
burlesque thereof, there would be no need
for Bananaland to send its goods l-,uu.
miles to be frozen out of the market.


44
n
TREY RE
ALL
m
■PH
r
-
mmf
*«
(
p 5
■ m
■
\ \
I
i
l P
:
d ]
■
a
mW
a:
t 4 *.
, i
pr-
l¥\
P
#
*
•l
I
W
#
J
M
/
y
A
atWral
mzmtiHk;
/
A
~■ .rfpwr j
IT JiBF /
,• *
/# -i
HI
:
sms*
em
jMT -gjffF
& ' '* : V
I
lIPPF
V * fe
MS
Jl IP
0
»sr
,• ■
few


Debility
enfeebled nerves, poor
health and weakened blood
—these are troubles that
can be overcome. SCOTT’S
Emulsion never fails. It
repairs waste, enriches the
blood, revitalizes the nerves
and gives strength to resist
or drive out weakness and
disease. When you are
run-down, out of sorts or
in poor health ask for
and get genuine SCOTT’S—
the remedy that all doctors
recommend. But be sure
it is SCOTT’S—with the
fishman on the package.
scons
Emulsion
TRADE
A
MARK
BEST
NATURAL
tS^
APERIENT
WATER
ANTINEURASTHIN
BRAIN and NERVE FOOD
is not the chance production of a day, but the final
triumph of years of scientific experiment.
The wonderful properties of Antineurasthin for
successfully treating all nerve maladies —Digestive
Disorders, Anaemia, Rheumatism, Brain Fag and
Insomnia have been testified to by thousands of those
who have received benefit.
THE EFFECTS OF ANTINEURASTHIN
are not only rapid, but what is more important—
lasting. These are indeed immediately noticeable.
The general feeling of health increases; the patient
becomes energetic and experiences a renewed pleasure
in life. Headache and Neuralgic Pains vanish, irrita-
bility disappears, Physical and Mental exertions are
easily borne, while the mental powers and memory
quickly improve.
ANTINEURASTHIN cures by feeding the Brain
and Nerve Centres.
You can prove its value by writing for a Free Trial
supply, enclosing twopence in stamps, to the Whole-
sale Agents, 11. A. Goddard, No. 3 Australasia Cham-
bers, 406-414 Queen Street, Brisbane; or Branches:
194 Vickery's Chambers, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney;
9-15 Safe Deposit Buildings; 90 Queen Street, Mel-
bourne ; 3 Ellershaw’s Buildings, Cliff Street, Fre-
mantle ; 213 Smeeton's Buildings, Queen Street,
Auckland.
Serial No. 810. Guaranteed under the Pure Foods
Act of New South Wales by H. A. Goddard, Sydney,
to contain not less than 10 per cent. Pure Lecithin.
COOKE’S
Theodolite.
Transit
The Most Reliable
Instrument on the
Market.
Ip
5-inch, with open pattern
standards, circles divided on
silver to 20 minutes, and
reading by verniers, two to
each circle, to 20 seconds.
Telescope with object glass,
1.125 in aperture, and Bin.
focal length; 4 levelling
screws 2 inverting eyepieces
—powers, 16 and 24, 2 sun-
cans, sunshade, trough com-
pass and plumb-bob, packed
in mahogany dase, fitted with
leather shoulder straps. Tri-
pod of solid pattern.
PRICE, F. 0.8. BRISBANE, £3B
A. P. Greenfield & Co. Ltd.
189=91 George Street, Brisbane.
CATALOGUE ON APPLICATION.
Apollinaris
The Queen of Table Waters
QUARTS, PINTS AND SPLITS.
KNOWLEDGE, IS POWER
Thirty years of assiduous study of The Hair and its Treatment, and all
Capillary Diseases as they affect the Scalp and Hair, have given me the means
of Preserving the Hair, and producing a new growth, after all other preparations
have failed.
Mr. Fred Peakman, of Wairoa, New Zealand, is another wonderful case. His hairdresser tells m
he had not a scran of hair, and now, after a few months’ treatment with my preparations, he has
got a splendid growth of hair.
Mr. O’Rourke, Wee Waa, New Soutli Wales, writes: “My head, which was nearly bald, has now
come back to its usual growth.”
Mr. Sutherland states: “I had only a little down on my head when I commenced to use vonr
SPECIAL PARASENE and COSMO LOTION; now 1 have a beautiful head of hair.”
Gentlemen who are going bald should use Special Parasene and Cosmo Lotion, one at
night and the other in the morning, and wash the head once a week with Shampuna.
Price (with postage, two months’ treatment): Victoria, 12/-; four months, 22/6. Other
States, 12/6 and 23/6.
Ladies with hair falling out should apply Restorer at night, and CoSIIIO Lotion in the
morning, and wash the head as often as .e'cessary with Shampuna.
Naturaline is a splendid preparation for coloring Giey Hair. It acts Quickly, naturally
and effectively, and is perfectly harmless. Made in all colors. Get the right strength.
No. 1 for Light Brown Hair; Medium for Medium Brown Hair.
No. 2 for Dark Brown or a Light Black ; Extra Strong for very Black Hair.
Price: Victoria, with postage, 6/3. Other States, 6/8.
E. HOLLAND,
Scalp and Hair Specialist,
195 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Hunyadi lanos
As a remedy for Piles (otherwise Hemorrhoids), Hunyadi Janos
Natural Aper.ent Water is world-famous. It is supplied just as
Nature creates it and is speedy and certain in giving relief.
It relieves the conjested veins, creates soft, easy motions and acts
beneficially in every way.
Hunyadi Janos is also a well known specific for such everyday com-
plaints as Constipation, Liver Troub'es, Biliousness and Ind gestion.
It is inexpensive and your chemist stocks it.
The Famous NATURAL Aperient Water.
m
V*
Ideal for
Australian
Roads.
4
vL
CYCLES AND MOTOR CYCLES.
fetoria and Tasmania :
MILLEDGE BROS-, 264, Post Office Place, Melbourne.
New Wales :
BENNETT & BARKELL LTD., 130-132, Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
South Australia :
J. HILL & SON, 63, Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
EYES & CROWLE, 125, Pine Street, Adelaide.
West Australia :
THE ARMSTRONG CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, Hay Street, Perth.
Queensland : _ _. .
THE HOWARD MOTOR & CYCLE CO., LTD., 376/8 Queen St., Brisbane.
GET BUSY.
START SPEEDING UP.
Blunt tools soon make a man blunt. Be
sharp—what you want is Banks’ Ball-
bearing Treadle Grindstone. No handle to
turn —by using your feet both hands can be
devoted to the delicate work of sharpening.
As ea«y as riding a bike down hill —nothing
to get out of order —one of the greatest time
and labor savers for the man who uses
cutting tools. Reliable and good.
Price 37/6.
John Danks & Son
PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
The House for Tools,
324 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Near Liverpool Street),
391 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
V
X
m
y
Lime
Brings to
■lrnitJ
your
uice.
the
of the lime fruit.
juice
It is a drink that is always cooling and refreshing.
The children love it. Order a few bottles to-day.
Large supplies have been lately shipped
from London.
MONTS EKRAT U *old by all leading Storekeepers.
cooling
£
The Merits of the PLUM Razor
I
-ijV
have been abundantly proved by hundreds of satisfied users. the
It has a fine cutting edge that leaves the face like velvet
shaving process. _ . .. pi un i.
The finest-tempered, ringing steel is used in the blade or « t erise
You’ll be delighted with the ease and quickness which cnai
your morning shave if you use
THE PLUM RAZOR 10/6 Post Free.
We guarantee to keep it in perfect
order for two years free of charge.
The C. & A. Moustache Trainer
shapes the moustache. Worn
at night; 2/6, 3/6, 5/6 each
post free.
We Grind and Set Razors, 1/- each.
SAFETY RAZORS FROM 5/6.
Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle. 10 6
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory « andle } his line
Pair m Double Case, 30/-. nt-
makes n very handsom P ? g
The Plum Razor Strop. lo/ ® a "“ oh .
Other good kinds from 3,
Stick good Shaving Soap,
The Plum Strop Dr ® BB "&V.L, se lvee
Gentlemen who shave t
should not be without it-
All the Above Post tree.
CRAIG & AITH.EN,
654 GEORGE STREET»
ESTABLISHED 30 YEARS^^^^I
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
R. Rubbish : Can’t undertake to return MS.
of unaccepted pars. Don’t know what became
of yours.... Dry Bulb: Thanks; that’s the sort of
thing we want —interesting facts the public don’t
know about people they do know or should know, but
don’t know.... Action : Thanks. Something in what
you say. Will remember it to his credit.... Limit:
Competition to find the word with most synonyms
is off Ambatha: Hardly worth while C. L.
Doolbi: For a subject like that a much lighter touch
is needed Bluebottle: Too trifling a buzz Eric
M.: It’s good work, but the subject is too small.
Keep going. .. .F.L.M.: “One of Melbourne’s suburbs
has been infested with a plague of beer!” Or is it
bees? If the former, kindly telegraph address of the
suburb, urgent.... E.C.: Rather off our track
W.F.: “Impressions” won’t do. That kind of thing
has been done so often that it has to be done very
well now to escape the executioner. .. .Nible: Don’t
strain so desperately for effect. Give us plain Eng-
lish —or Australian —in as few words as possible
without being telegraphic.... Drum: Though it’s
rather off our beat it might have pulled through if
it weren’t such ancient history.... Welshport: The
Bulletin isn’t profoundly interested in schemes for
bringing the State capitals an hour or two nearer
one another... .K.P. (Melb.) : Always glad to con-
sider paragraphs. Cut out any printed contributions
and forward, giving date and page, to Accountant,
Bulletin Office... .E.F.L.: Nothing there for u 5....
J.F.O’K: Sleeping draught verse... .Viator: You
write on both sides of the paper, and you are one
of those people who shouldn’t write on either side
.... Boy: No Mathogan : It is consigned
H.F.McH.: Can’t let you worship K.K.K.: Very
snippy humor. .. .H. 8.: The poem “Rain” had a
heavy fa 11.... Cam: Hardly anything in it, and what
there is isn’t worth while.... H.R.: It is a curt tele-
graphic poem. Try it here: —
AUSTRALIA.
Three cheers for our Australia
The lovely clime, the tranquil air,
The scent of Wattle everywhere.
The farmer’s field of wheat when sewn,
Grows till the time the crop is mown,
Before the ears by wind is blown.
Our stations are of vast extent,
To that one fact our power is lent,
Ten Million Pounds in sheep is spent
Our Railway Trains of service are,
To bring our wool in from afar,
Where all our largest Stations are.
In wheat there are none to compare,
The product of Australia Fair,
Tho’ nations seek to everywhere.
Six States has our Australia got,
The whole are a united lot,
Our citizens will fail us not.
Let every True Australian be,
What England’s Sons should always be.
Australia’s cheers ring three times three.
....Jim H.: Treatment is unskilful.... Arthur C.:
Both fail. .. .Learner: Sorry ; no space... .E.C.W.:
“Bottle-Oh” too pale and thin. .. . Bellerive: Ah, this
is up to the old form: —
WASHED ASHORE: LINES ON A BOATING
FATALITY.
The golden sun upon the ocean did gleameth,
While slowly shoreward a dark object did float,
To the verge of the beach it was borne by the
Billows,
The object alas, was an upturned Boat;
Saturated with foam it lay in the sunlight,
Washed upon the sands by the waves of the Deep,
The two fisher boys who’d sailed out so daring,
Struck by a gale had perished Beneath.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Fred F.: Is it original or a copy ? If
it’s original, go ahead —you may do something yet.
One of Victoria’s best landscape painters
was out with bis bag of. tricks near Dayles-
ford recently. He had pitched in front of
an old, two-roomed, wattle-and-dab hut,
softened with a crimson-flowered creeper,
which he thought would make an excellent
sketch. While he was working, a tall, hairy
man came out of the hut, and regarded him
with some misgiving. The hut-dweller ap-
proached. “Whatcher doin’, mister V” he
said. “I’m painting your picturesque dwell-
ing,” said Patterson. The hut-dweller re-
garded Patterson dubiously for a minute,
then went indoors. Presently he reappeared
with his wife, and the two advanced towards
the artist. “Mind yeh,” said the man, point-
ing at the painter, “I’ve got me witness—
you’re doin’ this at your own expense.”
From the Religious Editor’s parish :
At present we are staving off the mortgagee with
a bazaar in the little hall next to the bootshop.
The curate is having a wild time. All day long he
is sputtering about on his motor-cycle preparing
for the evening’s delirium ; in the evening he keeps
dashing in and out the hall and flashing his inde-
fatigable coat-tails in the faces of the pallid young
ladies who keep the sweet stall, and the pale young
workers who are ready with pincushions to wheedle
money out of the expected horde of visitors the
minute they appear. So far, there have never
been more than 10 possible victims in the room at
once, and the assistants spend most of their
time whispering together. (If you talk out loud,
you disturb the library calm of the place, and the
other people turn round and stare.) Musical items
happen at long intervals, and, if you don’t mind
waiting while the serious young man tunes his
violin, you will probably be astonished at the
amount of talent that is buried in our parish. The
curate always leads the applause in person, and,
with the loyal help of the assistants, succeeds in
making quite a nice uproar. After these bursts of
enthusiasm there is generally a long, quiet inter-
val, during which the curate (who makes a point
of speaking to every “helper” in turn) has to lower
his voice to a whisper, so as not to be overheard
by the whole room. The curate is dreadfully pleased
because it is such an orderly bazaar. Nothing of an
unseemly nature has occurred since the doors were
thrown open —no flirtation or rashness of any kind.
The curate has confessed to several people that he
had grave misgivings at first, but “everything is
going off splendidly.” The stallholders say they
wish the goods were passing away a little faster.
Still, excellent business is being done at the ice-
cream stall, where you get a little glass of frozen
custard for 3d. The assistants get very thirsty
waiting to dazzle the expected horde through their
spectacles, and they don’t mind the custard being
burnt. There is a great glamor about eating cus-
tard in public with strange people looking on. It
seems dreadfully daring, too, right under the eyes
of the curate, who, however, affects not to see, in
an easy, man-of-the-world way that is just a little
terrifying. Any impression of aloofness is corrected
by a group of children who play ball out in the
centre of the floor. The curate has warned them
more than once that they will have to move when
the crowd arrives; but, so far, they have not been
trampled on. So you’ll see “the Cause” is booming
in our suburb; and, as I said before, the curate is
having a very busy time.


Australian Mutual Provident Society.
NEXT ANNUAL DISTRIBUTION OF PROFITS AS AT 31st DECEMBER, 1913.
All participating Policies issued in the Ordinary Department before the close of the current year will
share in the Cash Bonus to be then allotted.
Cash Bonus Divided for Year 1912 £936,971
Yieidinj* Reversionary Additions to Policies'of over! ! . £1,640^000
l otal < ash Bonuses Distributed £17,790,073
N()\V IS IHE I IMP to effect an assurance or a further assurance on your life, in order to reap the
benefit of this years Bonus.
Write for full particulars to the Head Office, 87 Pitt Street, Sydney: or anv District Office or Agent
of the society.
RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S., Geenral Manager and Actuary.
H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
Bargains
BARGAINS
FOR
ALL.
FROM
ENGLAND
PAWNBROKERS’
Clearance Sale.
SEND AT ONCE FOR OUR
FULL LIST OF
3,500
GENUINE BARGAINS.
ASTOUNDING VALUE.
Brimming over with money-saving possibilities.
Patronised by Royalty and the Nobility.
Bankers :
London County & Westminster Bank,
Camberwell Branch, London.
YY7E have every confidence in our abilities to please our Customers, hence onr remarkable
vv offer of Six Months’ I'ree Approval. Examine the articles you may choose at your
own convenience, in your own home, and if you are not delighted and fully satisfied with the
high quality and exceptional value, return them to us within six months and we will
immediately return your deposit.
May we solicit a trial order ? Absolute satisfaction guaranteed
or money returned in full.
TERMS OF BUSINESS. Any Article Sent on Approval, Carriage
Free, on receipt of remittance. Cash refunded in full for goods
not approved and returned us within six months.
Read what “The Christian Age” says—
“DAVJS «V Co , of ‘26 Denmark Hill, have gained
considerable reputation for supplying unredeemed
pledges at very moderate prices. We gather from
their latest Bargain Hist that great savings can he
effected by purchasing a second-hand article of
jewellery which has just had enough wear to test
its value at about one-third the original cost price.
Included in their catalogue are watches by some of
the finest in deers in the world.”
Read what “Great Thoughts” says—
“ There cannot exist much doubt as to the intrinsic
value of any advertised article when such advertisers
are willing to send the goods advertised on the
Approval System. This system is adopted by
Messrs. DAVIS A* Co., and is a singular proof that
Messrs. DAVIS & Co. have every belief in their
ability to please their customers and prove the
genuine nature of their announcements.”
UIQ Field, Race, or Marine Glasses.
/U £5/}/- Military Binocular (by Letaier),
as supplied to officers in the Army and Navy ;
10 achromatic lenses ; 50 miles range ; shows
bullet mark at 1,000-yds.; saddler made case ;
great bargain ; sacrifice, 14/6.
01 /■ Powerful £4/4/- Binocular Field
Jm\/ m Glasses (by Chevalier) ; 10 lens
magnification power, brilliant definition, o\er
60 miles range, great depth of focus, large
field of view ; adjusted to the degree
of scientific accuracy; in saddh L made sling
case ; tremendous bargain : sacrifice, £l/1/-
Q’T Powerful £B/8/- Double Draw Bino-
O/ O culars, 12 lens magnification power
(by Lumiere), as supplied to H.R.H. the Crown
Prince of Greece; most powerful glass made;
name of ship can be distinctly read five miles
from shore; quick focus, brill.ant field of view,
colourless achromatic crystal lenses, enhanced
stereoscopic effect, great penetration power; in
solid brown English leather case; sacrifice,£l/17/6
-I /fj Gent’s heavy 18-ct. Gold-cased
Keyless Lever Hunter Watch,
improved action (John Forrest, London); 10
years' warranty; absolutely perfect timekeeper;
also Double Curb Albert, same quality with
handsome Compass attached ; all quite indis-
tinguishable from new; complete, sacrifice, 12/6.
1O Id L a< ly’ s handsome 18-ct. Gold-cased
I Z/0 Keyless Watch, improved action
(Allen & Co., Condon); exact timekeeper; 10
years' warranty; alsoh ng Watch Guard,elegant
design, same quality; together, sacrifice, 12/6.
-I r if* (Worth £4/4/-). Real Russian Furs.
I 0/0 Rich, dark sable brown Fur, 8-ft..
long; Granville Stole, deep shaped collar,
beautifully trimmed, 12 tails and heads; large
Granny Muff matching; together, 15/6.
OO /(R (Worth £5/5/-). Real Russian Furs.
Rich, dark sable brown, extra long
Princess Stole, trimmed with bead and tails at
back and on shoulders : also large animal Muff,
with heads and tails hanging : in perfectly new
condition ; together, great sacrifice, £l/2/6.
f\ /O Gent’s fashionable Double Albert,
lB-ct. Gold (stamped) tilled, curb
pattern, heavy solid links; sacrifice, 12/6.
“ Lady’s £4/4/- 18-ct. Solid Gold, hall-
marked, Diamond and Sapphire
Ilalf-hoop Ring, ciaw setting, large
faultless stones; sacrifice, 18/6.
“Jfi I Lady’s £l3/13/- 5-Stone Diamond
/ U/“ and Sapphire Half-hoop Ring, 18-ct.
Gold, Government hall-marked, claw setting,
containing two large round diamonds of dazzling
whiteness and tnree beautiful sapphires of
richest quality: sacrifice, £3/10/-
rtO 1C Gent’s £4/4/- fashionable Dark Grey
£U/0 Tweed Jacket Suit (by Stroud,
High-class Tailor) ; splendid quality, latest
West End cut and finish, never worn; breast
39-in„ waist 36-in., length 52i-in. ; £l/6/6.
18 6
Doublet
OQ/fi Bab y’ s
£.\J D quality,
Oft/ft Lad V ’s £5/5/- Solid Gold English,
-fcU/ O hall-marked, Keyless Watch, highly
finished jewelled movement, exact timekeeper,
richly engraved; 12 years’ warranty; £l/6/6.
~7(l/ m Magnificent Gent’s £l3/13/- Single
lU' Stone Diamond Ring, exceptionally
fine pure white stone, perfect in every respect,
mounted in 18-ct. Gold, Government hall-
marked, claw setting ; sacrifice, £3/10/-
Zft /C Lady’s £5/5/- Solid Gold long Watch
\JI U Guard, handsome and very stylish
in pattern, stamped and guaranteed, in faultless
and new condition; sacrifice, £l/6/6.
CC L Gent’s magnificent £ll/11/- Solid
\i%3/ Gold English, hall-marked, Keyless
I-ever, Centre Seconds, Chronograph Stop
Watch, exam, by celebrated watchmaker (W.
Russell, London); jewelled movement, perfect
reliability in any climate in the world ; timed to
a minute a month ; 20 years' warranty ; 6 months’
trial; great bargain ; sacri (ice, £2/15/-
CQ ft Lady’s magnificent £ll/11/- Diamond
Ou 1 0 and sapphire Cluster Ring, 18 ct. Gold,
hall-marked ; there are ten white and landless
diamonds surrounding a superb sapphire of
richest quality ; to appreciate the full beauty of
it must be seen; sacrifice, £2/19/6.
Long Clothes, superfine
.. magnificent £5/5/- parcel,
82 articles, everything required ; beautiful
garments ; the perfection of mother’s personal
work ; never worn ; great sacrifice, £l/9/6.
QQ/ft Valuable Violin (worth £lO/10/-),
U*/ O perfect condition, labelled Stradivarius
Cremona, 1721 ; rich mellow tone, with Bow
and Case, suit professional or soloist; £l/12/6.
1Q /C (Worth £3/3/-). Choice Expanding
■ 0/0 Watch Bracelet; finest workman-
ship, most successful ever invented, will fit
and grip any wrist, thereby avoiding all vibration
and ensuring perfect tirnekeeping; 18-ct. Gold-
cased ; 6 months’ trial: sacrifice, 13/6.
■1 Q /ft (Worth £l/15/-). Eightsuperfinequality
I Jm/ U Chemises, Knickers, and Petticoats ;
magnificent parcel; sacrifice, 12/9.
QQ /ft Spoons and Forks. (£lO/10/- Set).
OO'O A 1 quality, silver-plated on nickel
silver, stamped maker’s initials, Queen Anne
pattern ; 12 Table, 12 Dessert, 12 Tea Spoons,
12 Table, 12 Dessert Forks; Service 5-doz.;
wonderful bargain, £l/19/6; Half-Set, £l.
•1 ft /ft Fashionable Curb Chain Padlock
lU/ O Bracelet, with safety chain, solid
links, 18-ct. Gold (stamped) filled, in velvet case;
sacrifice, 10/6; another heavier, 12/6.
ftft/ft (Worth £4/4/-). Twenty-four superfine
2LO/D quality Nightdresses, Chemises,
Knickers, Petticoats, Combinations, &c.;
tremendous bargain ; sacrifice, £l/6/6.
6 /ft Pretty Necklet, with Heart Pendant
/3 attached, set Parisian pearls and tur-
quoises; elegant design; 18-ct. Gold (stamped)
filled ; in velvet case ; bargain ; sacrifice, 6/9.
DAVIS & CO.
PAWNBROKERS,
26 DENMARK HILL
LONDON, ENGLAND
A SATISFIED USER OF ECKERSLEY’S
AERATED WATER MACHINES
WRITES :
Mumbil, 18th August, 1913.
RAILWAY HOTEL.
J. Forrest,
Prop.
“I am more than satisfied with my Aerated
Water Machine, purchased from you some
time ago. and the Waters which it produces
are excellent. The cost of production is only
a trifle.
“Yours faithfully.
“(Sgd.) JACK FORREST.”
No Hotelkeeper or Vendor of Aerated
Beverages can afford to be without an
Eckersley Aerated Water Machine or
Soda Fountain. W T e are the only manu-
facturers of these superb Machines, and
in purchasing from us, middlemen’s
profits are eliminated.
VJ
ECKERSEEY’S
Canada Building, 822 George St., Sydney
Clarendon Street, South Melbourne
Queensland Agents—Messrs. Elliott, Donaldson & Douglas, 529.33 Queen Street, Brisbane.
ZonopHone
Double-
Sided
Records.
lO-
in cb
3
Two Masterpieces at
the Price of One.
Every Number a “hit.”
Let us send you complete lists
—or if you apply to your nearest
dealer he will gladly play them
over for you.
mm
TReTWIN
f 0-inch
3-
12-inch
S/-
£2
Sole Concessionaires for
THE INTERNATIONAL ZONOPHONE CO. LTD.
Hoffnung’s Chambers, 163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VALUABLE BOOKLET
POST FREE
Send for it
l a; once
TRENCH’S REMEDY FOR FITS AND EPILEPSY
CURES THE SEVEREST AND LONC-STANDINC CASES
Six Weeks' Trial Treatment, Only FIFTEZN SHILLINGS, Carriage Paid
Mrs. Solomon, 173 Montague St., Souih Melbourne,
wrote :—“My little girl Sylvia suffered from fits for twelve
months. She had as many as 60 iu one night and someone
had to watch her all the time. I had ner under a lead-
ing doctor. I then tried an herbalist, but she was getting
worse. When at the hospital Mrs. Freeman, of Alexan-
dra St-, Collingwood, gave me a book on Trench’s Treat-
ment. I got a packet and the second one cured her. She has
not had a fit for 14 months, and enjoys good health. I will
be very pleased to recommend your treatment to anyone.”
His Grace Arcbbisfaop Carr and Clergymon of all Dengawiationa p-jrsonally recomaawd Tica^a^Remo4y.
THE UNION MANUFACTURING CO., 299 Elizabeth Stf^iftelbournel
Delay is
Dangerous
HEALTH or SICKNESS
Take regularly the ‘Allenburys’ Diet. It is most easy of assimilation, increasing vitality
and diminishing fatigue. It restores the impaired digestion and gives tone to the whole
system Prepared from pure, rich milk and whole wheat, combined in a partially
predigested form, the ‘Allenburys’ Diet is a complete food, and is valuable alike for
the Invalid and Robust. Made in a Minute —add boiling water only.
. _
Allen & Hanburys
Ltd.
LONDON, ENGLAND, and
MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
»
THE HANDIEST
MEDICINE OF ALE!
Australians will find
J
the most useful household remedy
for Impure Blood, Boils, Bimoles,
Constipation, Liver Troubles, Rheu-
matism, Want of Energy, and all
Stomach Complaints.
“Golcryst” is made from Epsom
Salts, Senna, Sarsaparilla, Dandelion,
Liquorice and Ginger, and is thus not
a quack remedy with a secret formula.
PacKets: 3d., 6d. &. Is.
Free Sample posted by Proprietors—
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO.,
MELBOURNE. [2


Amusements.
A PUBLIC DEBATE.
CHRISTIANITY and RATIONALISM
011
“The Verity of Christ’s Resurrection.”
A PUBLIC DEBATE on “THE VERITY OF
** CHRIST’S RESURRECTION’’ will be held at the
PROTESTANT HALL, SYDNEY, on THURSDAY and
FRIDAY, 11th and 12th DECEMBER, at 8 p.m„
between
The REV. E. DIGGES LA TOUCHE, Litt. D„
Donnellan Lecturer at Universitv of Dublin, 1911-12,
For CHRISTIANITY,
and
MR. WYNDHAM S. HEATHCOTE, B'A., Oxon.,
recently Rector of Bundaberg, Q.,
For RATIONALISM.
Chairman: MR. JOHN WHEELER.
Admission: Reserved Seats, 2/- (3/- for both nights).
Other seats, 1/-. Plan at Cole’s on and after 29th
NOVEMBER.
Elt MAJESTY'S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
H
QUINLAN GRAND OPERA.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 27.. .. LA BOHEME
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 28 .. .. TANNHAUSER
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 29 LOUISE
MONDAY, DECEMBER 1 AIDA
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 2 . .TALES OF HOFFMANN
PLANS AT PALING’S.
DELI'III T HEAT RE. SYIINE Y.
Direction GEORGE WILLOUGHBY, LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8 O’CLOCK.
The Greatest Dramatic Treat Sydney Has Seen.
The Unique Bewildering Dramatic Spectacle,
THE MONK AND THE WOMAN.
THE DRAMA WITH THE STAMP OF APPROVAL.
THE DRAMA THAT HAS STOOD THE TEST UPTIME.
POPULAR PRICES: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-
PA l> AC E T IIE ATR E. SYDN E Y.
Direction ALLEN DOONE.
EVERY EVENING.
PRICES: 4/-, 2/6, 1/-
6d. extra.
THREE MORE NIGHTS ONLY.
A GREAT ARTISTIC SUCCESS.
Mr. C. Spencer has much pleasure in presenting
THOMAS HARDY’S Sublime Dramatic Story,
in Motion Pictures,
TESS OF THE D’URBERVELLES.
PRICES : 1/6, 1/- & 6d.
BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
POPULAR PRICES.
ALLEN DOONE
and his Popular Company, in the Patriotic Drama,
T H K 11 E.BE L.
Earlv Doors, Gallery and Stalls,
BOX' PLAN AT PALING’S.
National amphitheatre. Sydney.
Managing Director : BEN J. FULLER.
BRENNAN-FULLER’S VAUDEVILLE CIRCUIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
BAILY’S POSING DOGS, Canine Statuary.
LES BAU MALAGAS, Spanish Terpsichorean Specialties.
VERNON & SINCLAIR, in Musical Comedy.
THE GEORGIA TRIO, Ethiopian Eccentricities.
MISS JESSIE WILTON, English Comedienne.
THE CLIFFE QUARTETTE, SHARRAT & LANG,
WINIFRED STEWART, GABRIELLE HOPE.
PRICES : 3/-, 2/-, 1/6, 1/- Plan at Theatre.
II E lTtTle thea t k e
CASTLEREAGH STREET. SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.10.
WILTON WELCH
Presents an Absorbing Drama of To-day, entitled
THE WARNING.
A Powerful Cast, including the well-known French-
Australian Actress,
LOUISE CARBASSE.
A Play that will Bring About a Moral Reform.
Box Plan Paling’s. 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-.
/■> LACT.VRIUM AND OLYMPIA, SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD,
“BEST OF AM..”
FAMILY MATINEE —SATURDAY.
DE GROEN’S VICEREGAL ORCHESTRAS.
3d. to 2s. Plans at Nicholson's (No Extra Fee).
Q PENCE It’S LYCEU M, SYDNEY.
Rl C lv A It I) S’ T 1 V O I. I T H E A T It E.
Governing Director .. HUGH D. McINTOSH.
BARTON & ASHLEY, presenting “ Money Talks.”
THE FIVE PETLEYS, Sensational Gymnasts.
ROSA ROMA, the World-famed Gipsy Violinist.
THE GOLDEN TROUPE, Russian Dancers & Musicians.
LUCILLE SAVOY, the Singing Venus.
ERIC STONE, Artist Entertainer.
RICHARDS BROS., Novelty Ring Experts.
LILY EYTON, Vocal Comedienne.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
Prices: 5/-, 4/- and 1/-
P li It A HOLS E. M E L H O L It N E.
Governing Director: Mr. HUGH D. McINTOSH.
BELLORA, King of Mimics.
THE SIX HOBOES, the Travesty Tramps.
VAUDE AND VERNE, Premier Patterologists.
BONNIE LEONARD, the Girl with a Million Smiles.
FRANK FOX, the • Debonair Comedian.
GENE GREENE, the Emperor of Ragtime.
DU CALION, the Loquacious Laddie.
THE EIGHT SAXONES.
Plan at Allan’s. SWT*PRICES — 45., 35., 25., Is.
■yilK KING’S THEATItE. MELBOURNE.
* Sole'Lessee and Manager: William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Reappearance of the
AMERICAN MUSICAL BURLESQUE CO.
In the Exciting Musical Revel,
A DAY AT THU HACKS.
PLANS AT ALLAN’S.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELUOURNE.
Sole Proprietor: GEO. WILLOUGHBY LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Geo. Willoughby Ltd. presents a Grand Revival of the
Original and Startling Play,
THE NIGHT SIDE OF LONDON.
H
ADMISSION: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/- Plan at Pianola Co.
ER .MAJESTY’S THEATRE. M ECHO LltN E.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, NOVEMBER 29.
THE NEW COMIC OPERA CO.,
Presenting a cast entirely new to Melbourne, in the
Delightful Musical Romance,
TUB BALKAiN PIUXCJBSS.
Pi "i at Allan’s.
Prices: 65., 45., 2s. and Is.
Til EAT RE KOY A L. MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON., Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
EWIS WALLER, together with Miss MADGE
TITHERADGE, and a Complete Company, in
v BUTTERFLY ON THE WHEEL.
PRICES: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls. 6/-
Stalls, 4/-. Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
Amusements.
Thje auditorium,
MELBOURNE.
Direction: «L 4s N. Tait.
J. 4s N. TAIT present
The Greatest Concert Singer of the Age,
JOHN McCOKMACK,
THE WORLD’S GREATEST LYRIC TENOR,
in three Farewell Appearances, viz.:
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT . . ..NOVEMBER 29
TUESDAY NIGHT DECEMBER 2 ;
THURSDAY (MATINEE) .. ..DECEMBER 4
MISS MAY HUXLEY Soprano
MR. DONALD McBEATII Violinist
MR. VINCENT O’BRIEN Accompanist
BOX PLAN AT ALLAN’S.
PRICES: 7/6, 5/-, 3/- and 2/-.
ELBOURNE REPKETOKV TH EATRE
Direction . . GREGAN McMAHON.
At the
ATHENHSUM HALL.
SATURDAY & MONDAY, 1 THE NEW SIN,
DECEMBER 6 &8. / By Macdonald Hastings.
FRIDAY & SATURDAY, ) CANDIDA,
DECEMBER 12 & 13. / By Bernard Shaw.
Box Plans at the Pianola Co. and Booklovers’
Library. Season Tickets at a reduction on applica-
tion at Box Offices.
|M| AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
ITI Proprietors: Amalgamated Pictures Ltd.
FEATURING THIS WEEK,
THROUGH THE CLOUDS.
A SERIES OF STARTLING ADVENTURES AND
SENSATIONS IN MIDAIR.
Plan at Allan’s. Theatre ’Phone: Central 4663.
PICTORIAL CONCERTS EVERY SUNDAY
EVENING AT 8.
OLYMPIA. OLYMPIA.
L Y M P I A. MELBOURNE.
(Just across Princes Bridge).
WHERE ARE TO BE SEEN THE UNRIVALLED
SPENCER’S PICTURES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS AT 2.30.
EVERY NIGHT AT 8.
IA/EST’S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
rim best WEST’S PICTURES TH e best
OF ALL LIMITED. OF ALL
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8. Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays,
and All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enteri’RlSe in the World.
PRE-F.MINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be seen
at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices —6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
I K c & CARROLL
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towets.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office: ROTHWELL CHAMBERS. BRISBANE.
ARE YOU FAIR TO YOURSELF ?
yOU begin to
4 * look old, with
those grey and
faded hairs,
always so con-
spicuous, A
bottle .of the
world-famed
Lockyer's
Hair Restorer, 1/6
gives health to the Hair and restores the
natural colour. It cleanses the scalp ; is
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
DON’T LOOK OLD.
Government Notices.
WANTED Ten Armament Artificers for
Commonwealth Permanent Military
Forces. Pay from 10/- to 13/- per day.
Uniform Allowance £5 per annum. Eighteen
days’ recreation leave annually. Medical
attendance free.
Applicants must be between ages of 21 and
30 years, and comoetent tradesmen (fitters
and turners), with a knowledge of mechani-
cal drawing. Applications close on 15th
December, 1913. Full particulars and Ap-
plication Forms obtainable from Secretary,
Department of Defence, Melbourne, or the
Military Commandment, Sydney, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth and Ilobart.
XMAS NUMBER. XMAS NUMBER.
THE NEW
LONE HAND
ON SALE DECEMBER 1.
for a fair dinkum go
k ... TRY THE ... 4
lEZON
Accordeons
The World’s Best
35/-, 42/- 63/-
Sole Agent:
LYONS,
Bourkest.,Melb.
13 J
CHRISTMAS BARCAIN PARCELS
6/- WORTH for 2/6, WE PAT CARRIAGB
To make known some of our Valuable Household
Specialities, we are making up our usual Christmas
Parcels, containing Cinderella Slipper, makes iron-
ing a pleasure; Dust-Eating Duster picks up all
dirt it touches and carries it away ; Soap
a clever attachment for bucket or tub; Polish-
ing Cloth shines everything without labor;
Mending~Tissue mends clothes, boois. gloves. &c., without sew-
ing ; Separator divides white from yolk instantly ; and a
Pair of Strong Pliers. These are all excellent new ideas, that
oulv need to oe known to be highly valued Splendid Presents.
GOOD THINGS for the CHILDREN
1 6/- WORTH for 2/6, WE PAY CARRIAGE
2 Jumping kangaroo*, 2 Flying Birds, 2 Big Butter-
flies, different colors, that will fly, Japanese Jigger,
dances like mad. Jumping Jack, very funny, Trans-
forming Flowers make many wonderful and beautiful
forms. Pair of Fighting Roosters. Something to
amuse everybody, grown-ups as well as youngsters.
Bargain Bunch of Wonders
5/- WORTH FOR 2/6, WE PAV CARRIAGE.
3 Trick Match Boxes, all different, you can “ have n your
friends every time with a new one; 3 Good Puzzles,
3 Wonderful Card Tricks, astonish everybody ; 2 Lovers*
Links, cannot get away, great fun ; Book on Parlor Magic,
shows you bow to do scores of good tricks ; Joker Fly
Scarf Pin, takes in everybody. Plenty of fun for the
holidays. Full directions for doing all the tricks and puzzles.
SOME NICE THINGS FOR THE LADIES
ft 810 5/- WORTH for 2/6, WE PAY CARRIAGE.
Delightful Perfumed Amulet, Lucky Shoe Scarf
I Pin. Set of Three Beauty Pins, Kangaroo, Emu
and Kookaburra, Lucky Blue Bird Brooch,Cigar
Kan and a Set of Little Darling Shirt Sup-
porters. A Real Bargain Parcel.
one Life-Size Clcth Doll, to be cut out and stuffecT
To Buyers of aov Three Parcels will be given Si*
Pieces of Copyright Sheet Music, new and popular.
To Buyers'of all Four Parcels will be given a lovely
Sicilian Shell Necklet.
The concents of the Parcels cannot be varied in any way
The Union Manufacturing Co.,
. 299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne. >
To Buyers of any Two Parcels will be aiven
This is the pen. The
British made Safety
Fountain pen the
ONOTO.
This is the pen
that fills itself, and
cleans itself in fill-
ing—the ONOTO.
This is the sim-
plified pen that
lias really sfm-
pl fied writing—
the ONOTO.
This is the self-
contained pen
t hat needs no
filler the
ONOTOj
This is the
pen that is
pen for your pocket. The Safety
really safe and only costs 12/-.
Carry it at any angle
Once in the pocket the Onoto becomes
a sealed tube, yet it is always ready
to write anywhere, any time, as soon
as nib touches paper.
It is the five qualities mentioned
above that make the Onoto a gr at
time and trouble saver—the pen to
possess. Get one to-day.
the pen—never leaks.
Price 12/- and upwards, of all Stationers, Jewellers, and Stores. Booklet about the Onoto
Pen free on application to I'hos. De I.a Rue & Co., Ltd. 204, Bunhill Row. London, E.C.
or the Australasian Representatives Norman Baker & Longhurst, 50 York Street, Sydney.
Ask for ONOTO INK—best for all Pens.
Government Notices.
Department of Home Affairs
Melbourne, 10th November, 1913
KALGOORLIE-PORT AUGUSTA
RAILWAY.
Galvanised Iron Wire.
Q
Railways, 84 William Street, TielZ
IXrill Ka XAAAIT7A/1 11 *-v i- . "1-1
UOTATIONS, addressed to a.
. Engin o^- i a; C l ! l . ief f 2 r Commonwealth
urne,
will be received up to 11
a.m. on the l S f
December for the supply and de'liverv of h,
tallowing:—
Galvanised Iron Wire to Fremantle ana
Port Augusta respectively—
2001 iicr r N„ mi £,r wr .. PoB,al . s i?t;
601 b. per mile as per Postal Specific!"
tion No. 5
2 cwt.
Half the above quantity for delivery t
each port. 1 10
Full particulars will be obtainable at th P
Commonwealth Railway’s Offices, 84 Wa
liam Street, Melbourne, and also at the
offices of the Commonwealth Works Direo
tor, Customs House. Sydney; Commonwealth
Works Registrars, Brisbane, Adelaide
and Hobart.
Quotations are to be endorsed “Quotati™
for Electric Staff Wire.” quotation
JOSEPH COOK,
Minister of State for Home Affairs.
Department of External Affairs,
Melbourne, 17th November, 1913.
TIYENDERS are invited by the undersigned
JL returnable on 15th DECEMBER f ol i
the supply of a complete TIN-DRESSINfi
PLANT for the Northern Territory, to in-
clude the faollowing items :
60 8.11. P. Suction Gas Plant, or
1.F1.P. Steam Engine and Boiler.
1 Rock Breaker.
10 Head 12001 b. Stamps with boxes.
3 Wilfley or Krupp Concentrating Tables
3 Wilfley or Card Slime Tables.
4 Luhrig Vanners (2 pairs).
4 Wheeler Granding Pans.
3 Classifiers.
4 Cone-shaned Settlers, 6ft. deep, 6ft.
diameter, large end.
2 Cone-shaped Settlers, sft. deep, sft.
diameter, large end.
2 Cone-shaped Settlers, 4ft. deep, 4ft.
diameter, large end.
2 Sand Pumps.
1 Tin Drier.
Necessary shafting, belting, supply pumps
and feed pumps, and all sundries essen-
tial for working above plant.
Tenderers should submit constructional
plans with their tenders, and the successful
tenderer should be prepared to send a capable
man to the Territory to supervise erection of
plant.
Tenderers should quote C.I.F. Darwin, and
state time when delivery can be effected.
The lowest or any other tender not neces-
sarily accepted.
ATLEE HUNT,
Secretary, Department of External Affairs.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, 19th November, 1913.
ROYAL AUSTRALIAN NAVY.
Tenders for Boot Polish.
TENDERS will be received, subject to
the conditions of tendering, until
52 noon on Monday, Bth December, 1913, for
the supply of boot polish to the Itoyal_ Aus-
tralian Navy, until 31st December, 1915.
The polish must be manufactured in Aus-
tralia, and supplied in tins containing not
less than 3oz. of polish.
Tender forms, specification and full par-
ticulars can be obtained at the office of the
Director of Navy Contracts, Navy Office,
Melbourne; or at the Naval Staff Office,
Sydney, Brisbane, Largs Bay (South Aus-
tralia). Fremantle and Hobart.
The lowest or any tender will not neces-
sarily be accepted.
E. D. MILLEN,
Minister of State for Defence.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, 19th November, 1910.
ROYAL AUSTRALIAN NAVY.
Tenders for Hardwood Timber.
r PENDERS will be received, subject to
I conditions of tendering, until 12 nooD
on Wednesday, 10th December, 1910, tor
the supply of Hardwood Timber for new
wharves at the Commonwealth Dockyard.
Cockatoo Island, Sydney, N.S.W.
Delivery to be F. 0.8., Commonwealti
Dockyard, Sydney. . , , „
Tender forms, specification and full part
culars can be obtained at the office ot t
Director of Navy Contracts. Navy office,
Melbourne; or at the Naval Stall
Sydney, Brisbane, Largs Bay (South A
tralia). Fremantle and Hobart.
The lowest or any tender will not ne ■
sarily be accepted.
E. D. MILLEN.
Minister of State for Defence.
. Department of Defence, „
Melbourne, 21st November,
ROYAL AUSTRALIAN NAVY.
Tenders for the Supply of Oregon Pi ne>
TENDERS will be received, subject to tb£
conditions of tendering, un
noon on Monday, Ist December,
the supply of Oregon Ime to th
Australian Navy. m ag
Delivery is to be on wharf, Hobar.,
mania. \ a f il 031*’
Tender forms. Specifications an 2, u n f the
ticulars may be obtained at the offi
Director of Navy Contracts, - , a District
Melbourne, or on application to c, 7f ineV and
Naval Officer, Naval Staft Office, S 3
Hobart. , eces .
The lowest or any tender will no
sarily be accepted. T
E. D. MILLED,
Minister of State for Dt euC
PAGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea
ture of The Lone Hand no woman
ty or country should miss.


Sores Formed Large Scabs, Very
Painful, Also Great Itching, Used
Cuticura Soap and Ointment,
Scabs Disappeared,
10 Lackey St., St. Peters, N. S. W.—“Fof
several months I had a very bad breaking
out of sores which formed large scabs on
my neck. The sores and scabs were very
painful, also itching; in fact the itching was
so great that I could hardly keep my hand
away from the scabs. I had tried various
so-called cures but without relief, when,
remembering what my friends had told me
of Cuticura Soap and Cuticura Ointment,
I got some Cuticura Ointment and from the
first application I derived relief and after
applying it as directed. be f ore going to bed,
I am thankful to say that the scabs com-
pletely disappeared within two months.
The Cuticura Ointment is a cure for any-
thing of that kind, also I hare found it
Useful for the relief of insect bites, cuts and
wounds.” (Signed) George James Rex,
February, 1913,
In the care of baby’s skin and hair, Cuti-
cura Soap is the mother’s favorite. Not
only is it unrivaled in purity and refresh-
ing fragrance, but assisted by Cuticura
Ointment its gentle emollient properties are
Usually sufficient to allay minor irritations,
remove redness, roughness and chafing,
Soothe sensitive conditions, and promote
Skin and hair health generally. They are
also most valuable in the treatment of ecze-
mas, rashes and other itching, burning in-
fantile eruptions. Cuticura Soap wears to
a wafer, often outlasting several cakes of
ordinary soap and making its use most eco-
nomical. Cuticura Soap and Cuticura
Ointment are sold throughout the world
Liberal sample of each mailed free, with
32-p. Skin Book. Address R, Towns & Co..
Sydney, N. S. W.
Puts Stomach,
Liver and Bowels
in Fine Condition
To promptly end the misery of consti*
pation torpid liver, sick headache, indi-
gestion, dizziness and nausea, you must
Use CARTER’S LITTLE
LIVER PILLS. They
never fail —that’s why
millions use them.
Vim,vigor, vitality,
and a clear com-
plexion are the
resultoftheir
use. You
need them.
Carters
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
The
GENUINE
must bear
signature
r
«.> /
•V.
AN INTERESTING
EXPERIMENT.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey Hairs
make, just lay a piece of paper over each of the two
halves of the above portrait. The Grey ‘ half will
then be seen to have the appearance of 4a yeais oi
age, whereas the other half looks only 30. Hr. !>•
Allen’s (US.A.) Mexican Walnut Stain will make
all those years of difference if you are grey or prema-
turely grey. It is perfectly harmless, easy to apply,
and will quickly restore the Hair to the natural shade
of youth, or younger years.
Dr. B. ALLEN’S <u.s.ao
Mexican WALNUT STAIN
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suitable
for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or Moustache.
CARBIDE.
For First-Class
Results use
Best
“PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributingit oa ! 1 J?. e I ?pK ain ®2
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole A<r nts for Australia.
PAGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of Tiie Lone lland no woman m
city or country should miss.
I Was Bald
And came into possession of the
secret of a Genuine Hair Grower.
My Hair Grew to its Present Length in 40 Days.
Mr. CRAVEN
BURLEIGIJ
Frojtf a,» recent
photograph.
THIS ANNOUNCEMENT is of special interest to every MAN
AND WOMAN who has previously tried other HAIR-GROWING PREPARA-
TIONS. If you have ILAD NO SUCCESS WITH OTHERS, please write to
me. I REFRAIN from Expressing any personal opinion as to other prepara-
tions, but point to the ’vast array of letters received from patrons, w o,
HAVING TESTED numerous advertised compounds, washes, etc., without
benefit, used my pomade, and FOUND IT TO BE EXACTLY AS Ll.l RE
SENTED —A TRUE HAIR GROWER. It is always prepared in accordance
with the formula with which my name has become famous, and which is
endorsed by NOTED ANALYTICAL EXPERTS OF ENGLAND, GERMANY,
FRANCE AND THE UNITED STATES. It can be shown by many letters
which I receive that, IN A FEW DAYS AFTER THE FIRST APPLIC^ TI
THE HAIR BEGINS TO GROW, AND CONTINUES UNTIL A HEALTHY,
STRONG, PERMANENT GROWTH IS MANIFEST.
Those who are troubled with falling hair,
the humiliation that they cause. There is no
be quickly overcome by my True Hair Grower.
dandruff, baldness, itching scalp, etc., know full wed
need, however, of such conditions. These troubles can
10,000 Free Trial Boxes
My offer is a straightforward, honest proposition from a business man to sensible men and women.
The merit of my TRUE HAIR GROWER is in the preparation itseif, not in ,the adverhsing. f> u
will write to me I .will send you a TRIAL BOX of the JOHN GRAVEN BURLEIGH TRLEH AIR
GROWER. I make this offer because I want YOU to'know just what my True alr '
I was bald, it cured me, and it has cured thousands of others. Package will be sent securely sealed
in plain wrapper.
BALDNESS, DANDRUFF, ITCHING, ETC.
FREE TRIAL COUPON.
Cut out this Coupon, and send with 3 stamps, to cover postage, etc., and I will
immediately post a trial box of my True Hair Grower.
JOHN CRAVEN BURLEIGH, DEPT. 7, 192 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Because the Body-Building Power of Bovril has been
proved to be from 10 to 20 times the amount taken.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Canuinm
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BV ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
l/I±, 2/9 & 4/b,
Made in England.
Checks Fever-
ishness. and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks of
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
•he cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acts like a charm In
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY.
Choose
it
Swan.
9 9
The comfort of it, the sureness, ease,
sweetness : —each ancl every character-
istic deserves notice. The “Swan”
Fountpen pleases the most impatient,
exacting writer —those who expect
more out of a pen than other's have
given. We can satisfy such and win
their enthusiastic recommendation.
Every hand suited exactly.
'
“swan Safety"
Can't Leak,
Blot, Miss,
ox* Scratch !
Catalogue free on request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London
and
Australian Branch (Wholesale only): J. A. BURKE'
Sold by all Stationers
and Jewellers.
5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George St., Sydney.
Branches.
An
Odorless Breath \
is but one of the many advantages that Pebeco
provides. Cleaner, whiter, stronger teeth, firmer,
healthier gums, and a high standard of mouth
health, all inevitably follow its night and morning
use.
OBTAINABLE ALL CHEMISTS.
Trial Tube of Pebeco, with interesting hook and
test papers, free for three penny stamps, on appli-
cation to the Sole Agent,
(Dept.
G. ARNOLD
M), 6 O’Connell Street, Sydney
(WHOLESALE ONLY). [l
The Inky Way,
From a south-east town (S* Aus.) : Talking about
stereotyped newspaper phrases, the best I’ve met
lately referred to a local winner over the Cup as “a
lucky townsman.” The circumstance that the poor
beggar has but one arm and one leg, the, others
having been lost by accident a While ago, Wash t suf-
ficient to veto a phrase that simply had to he used
when a man had picked the winner and landed a bet
or two,
* * * *
“B. J.”: George Vesey Allen, in his best days
chief of Melbourne Age's reporting staff, got back
to journalism a couple of years ago, when, in com-
pany with Harold Hansell and Charley Nuttall, he
founded a weekly Which called itself Society. lor a
while the rag succeeded in being a little less dull
than other Melbourne weeklies, but its name, or
public indifference to Art, or the dreadful theatrical
piffle contributed by the. present scribe, or something
of the kind, proved too much for it, and it went to
its little grave without any popular outburst of grief.
The Bulletin rejoices to see that the Pure Foods
Act is now being vigorously administered in Vic-
toria. The Gippsland Times mentioned the other
day that “twenty-six houses were condemned in
Melbourne during the last two Weeks as being unfit
for human consumption.” #
“P.X.”: When the patience of Billjim, the rural
worker, waS exhausted, he “downed tools and went
on strike, careless of the damage that might be done
to the waiting crops.” When the patience of the
P. and O. officer was exhausted, he “signified his
intention of discontinuing his services until his griev-
ances had bo6ii adjusted. ’ Circumstances alter
phrases. Here endeth suddenly the first lesson in
Journalism. #
“Locust”: The Lucas-syphon-Tooths are back in
Australia. Lucas recently gave 50,000 Australia?
sovereigns to maintain the Beeritish Territorial
Army, which will be engaged sooner or later in de-
fending the breweries of Britain. He is not known
as having splashed much of his money in Australia.
An opportunity is suggested. His specialty is Beer.
And as one who ought to know wrote in The Bul-
letin a while back, “Beer makes you feel as you
ought to feel without beer!” why_ not distribute a
few thousand barrels of this glorious fluid among
Australian journalists—a thirsty lot, though we say
it ourselves. I don’t know that it would buy much
gun-defence of Australian breweries; but at least it
might secure for Lucas a shove now and then in his
toilsome way up to the English Beerage.
“JH ”• The death of R. L. Abbott, proprietor and
editor of Port Augusta (S.A.) Dispatch, at 35, is a
loss to the independent thought of South Aus. At a
time when party bigotry punishes criticism of the
so-called Liberal party with business boycott and
social scorn, R. L. Abbott fearlessly criticised the
party to which he himself belonged, and in particular
denounced its recent shameless gerrymander. lie
was a good townsman, and did valuable service in
rousing in the minds of many others a keener sense
of the responsibilities of citizenship. Before he took
to country journalism a few years ago he was a city
jeweller. *
Following Tom Mills, of “the little way-back
town of Feilding” (M.L.), R. H. Barnet, of Gawler,
has been elected president of the Provincial Press
Association. The Gawler man has one distinction:
he owns the Bun yip—probably the only one in the
world. . »
# *
Arthur J. Rees, the ex-Australian, whose book,
“The Merrv Marauders,” has recently pleased Lon
don, knows the signposts along Australasia s nkv
Wav well. A few vears back he drifted to Main-
land from Melbourne Age, and joined Auckland
Herald, where, during a comparatively brief stay,
he greatlv distinguished himself. Then he wandered
South to Wellington, and worked on Truth (John
Norton’s). Later on he returned to Melbourne and
put in a spell doing the official reporting for the
Torrev-Alexander revivalists. To-day he can easily
be picked out on London’s Inky Way by his stature,
amdngst other things. He’s one of the biggest men
in the profession. # #
Tn Victoria the papers that have a bad habit of
loafing on the photographer are in for trouble. Just
as the man who wrote verses used to be expected to
supplv his wares for nothing, in return for the joy
of seeing his name swinging , at the bottom of them,
so the photographer has often been expected to
make no charge for pictures supplied to alleged news-
papers. The dreadful print was, as a rule, no ad-
vertisement at all for the photographer; yet the
mere mention of his name was supposed to be pay-
ment enough. Lately the photographer decided that
he was just as much entitled to some hard cash as
the iob-printer, or the pickle-manufacturer who isn t
satisfied to give his goods away because the name
is on the bottle ; so he formed the Photographic Em-
ployers' Association of Victoria, and a schedule of
.rices for all sorts of camera work has been agreed
on by practically whole of the people in the trade.
Died the other week, at . Richmond (London), aged
79 the fourth William Hazlitt of literary note. His
writine-s were mostly of the bibliographical order,
but he* was also an essayist and a student of politics.
William his father, produced some books. His
grandfather was the William Hazlitt, who is still
onoted; and his great-grandfather was a Rev. Wil-
?iam Hazlitt. of the Scotchbyterian Church. The
parson seems to have transmitted a healthv strain of
intellect; but there is no mention of a bookish suc-
cessor to the scholar lately deceased.
TO MY BIOGRAPHER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A. M.
I.ord Bulvver Lytton’s life has been written by his
grandson. The story reveals his grandmother s in-
discretion before her marriage, and the critics ques-
tion whether a biography needs details of such
brutal frankness. —Cable from, London,
Oh, comb my life with the finest comb,
Expose my youth in its gayest fooling ;
Set down the squabbles I had at home
And whether I paid for the children's schooling ;
Find out if I ever was on the booze,
Explore the cupboards in all their crannies,
But, Mr. Biographer, don’t refuse
To cloak that little mistake of Granny’s.
1 don’t object to a careful list
Of all the vices I ever rose to.
I make you a present of Her I kissed
And of Her I married (there’s always those two) ;
Paint me a monster when I throw seven
And you needn't delete a single letter ;
But don’t make Grandmother blush in Heaven-
Naughty old Granny Who knew no better.
It is sad to think that the throne of Fame
Is beaten by light so full of terror
■ That it shows in stark, unspeakable shame
A grandsire's sin or an uncle’s error 1
When you write a novel that has no peer,
Or scribble down an immortal chantey,
Be sure that the world some day will sneer
At every little mistake of Auntie!
I tremble, reading of Lytton’s. “Life,
For I wonder whether, when mine is written,
They'll fossick stories of Grandpa's wife
As warm as those of the house of Lytton?
Passionate tales of a time gone by,
Of days that with glory and gladness full were,
When Grandma laughed at a starlit sky—
And if Grandpa’d known, there’d have been no
Bulwer !
So I'm rather glad that a great renown
Won’t be the guerdon of these my verses:
That the tombstone over me v/on't fall down
With Grandma’s weeping and Grandpa’s curses.
I’ll dwell retired in an unseen nook —*
For the sake of rhyme I must call it cranny
And I’ll burn unprinted my deathless book,
All for the sake of my bad old Granny.
N.S.W.


The Recognised Leading House for all
SMOKERS & SHAVERS’ REQUISITES
PIPES
H
I
G
H
G
R
A
D
E
S.N.L. Pipes, made from finest quality old
briar root, with superior hand-cut Para vul-
canite mouthpieces. Heavy Silver mounts.
All shapes 3/- each (post free)
“Goudron,” finest quality
Natural Block
Meerschaum Pipes.
THE
SWEETEST
AND
COOLEST
SMOKING
PIPES EVER PRODUCED.
Para Vulcanite Mouthpieces, in case,
8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 14/6, 16/6, 21/-
each (post free).
Natural Pressed Amber Mouthpieces,
in case,
12/6, 14/6, 16/6, 18/6, 25/- each
(post free).
CIGARS
QUALITE
DE LUXE.
•'Golden Key”
Cigars, of exquisite
aroma and infinite
oliarm.
The Standard
of Luxury
in Smoking.
vv
a
Put up in cedar cabinets containing—
-25 cigars, 11/6; 50 cigars, 22/6
(post free).
Sample boxes of 5 cigars, 2/6 (post
free).
CIGARETTES.
Delightful, Fascinating
“Three Witches”
Cigarettes, made from
selected, sun-ripe
Virginian Tobacco.
Finest quality.
5/- per 100 (post
free;.
Jhree Witches
vi
(Tga
VIRGINIA
(IGARCTTES
TOBACCOS.
“Sunol,” highest grade Virginian, awarded 4
gold medals. Dark or Light. In plug or
cut, 6/- per lb. (post free).
“Lonus” Smoking Mixture, choicest tobaccos,
skilfully blended. Put up in 2oz. tins.
8/6 per lb. (post free).
Tobacco Pouches.
H
A
N
D
Y
r; ’
MX
mm
G
0
M
P
A
G
T
Wallet Pouch, Split Calf 2/9
„ ~ Real Morocco .. 3/6
„ „ Calf Crocodile .. 4/6
„ ~ Gazelle 5/-
~ „ Velvet Calf .... 6/6
POCKET LIGHTERS.
The “Sunol” Pocket
Lighter. Every smoker
should have one. Simple
in construction. Nothing
to get out of order.
2/- each (pos't free).
CIGAR and CIGARETTE
HOLDERS.
Amber Cigar Holders, silver rim,
in case, 6/6, 7/6 each.
Amber Cigar Holders, gold rim,
in case, 10/6, 11/6 each.
Amber Cigarette Holders, silver
rim, in case 4/- 4/6 each.
Amber Cigarette Holders, gold rim, in
case 7/6, 8/6 each.
SHAVING SETS.
N
O
T
H
I
N
G
If
B
E
T
T
E
R
Shaving Sets, comprising 1 renowned C. 8.8.
Razor, 1 C. 8.8. Razor Strop, 1 Badger Hair
Shaving Brush, and stick Williams’s Soap-
-18/6 (post free).
RAZORS
R
A
R
E
Q
u
A
L
1
T
Y
The “Hitite” Razor, pronounced by experts
to be absolutely perfect. None to
equal it. Kept in good order for 2 years,
free of charge —
Vulcanite Handle 7/6 each (post free).
Ivory Handle 10/6 each (post free).
SAFETY RAZORS.
The Celebrated “Auto Strop” Safety
Razor, complete with 12 blades and strop,
in leather case 22/6 (post free).
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
Head Depot: Haymarket, Sydney
Branches: CITY, SUBURBS and NEWCASTLE.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
agents for
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dog’s Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
STEV
NS
n
lit
mu
If
Hi
/
“VISIBLE LOADING”
RIFLE NO. 70
The most accurate .22 calibre Repeat-
ing Rifle in the World.
Handles, 15 .22 short and 12 .22 long rifle
cartridges.
Unexcelled for small game and target prac-
tice.
Apply for latest catalogs and detailed infor-
mation to
ARTHUR H. HILL,
Australian Representative for J. Stevens Arms and Tool Company,
G.P.O. Box 86. Adelaide. South Australia. [2
MARK
Hade in
England
UNDERWEAR
The “ BIRD MARK” on your Underwear
is a guarantee that the garments are made from
the finest Australian Lambswool and Cotton,
and in some qualities Silk is added.
The garments also have patented improve-
ments and fit the figure perfectly.
The most perfect underwear for hot weather
is the '“BIRD MARK” Merino and Silk
Underwear, it will stand hard wear yet light in
weight.
Sold by all Drapers and Outfitters.
Wholesale only
I. & R. MORLEY and OEO. BRETTLE & CO.,
London, E.C
Ask for THE 4 BIRD MARK' ME INQ UNDERWEAR
MARK
30VUJ.
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co, Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES : 44- BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1913 edition, 2s 6d posted. Mkrrie
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine's Silent Friend, Is 6d. Nkd Donnelly's Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Danck, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating thk
HORSF., IS. V KNTRILOQU IS M MaDK EaSV, Is. UP-TO-
Datf. Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
tiie Memory, Is Id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all tiie Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Games,
Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ingPampiilet, 1/2. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guii)K(simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide),, price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blateh-
ford) 9d The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God ’and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins. Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s (Id. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is 6d.
m
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
Bt Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting- their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
bookseller to the. commonwealth, -w
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS-LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano. Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. The White Slave Traffic, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easj-, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 3d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor • Every Man His Own Schoolmaster
Is posted. Cabinkt Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes. 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled Into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established 1 ears.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS A DVT.
♦ r
Write lor mv
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, UOTK ° R
POSTAL NOTE 01 ANY COUNTR •■
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DU
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT
How TO Make Up, Illustrated G^ de lc t °
posted. New Tricks with Cards, l - I 0 0,1) , 1 ° I) . g ji,
Is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d post. Dr. M ' (
wife’s Handbook, 92 praccical I " ,l^ c , c omplel
Aristotle, 3/6. Adam L. Gorton s <• J T
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Cl ' AM ‘ lo ", gI!CR
King, Is 2d. Guide to auctioneering, -*<>
History Court of England, Is “d P l 3 5
Letter Writer, Is. All About In ' to
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, p Wli
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted.
Dictionary, 8d posted. ToBO “ ’ RmD Hf»
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, ls. Do AuVICB to
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. r Chkvas ll «« So
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful u f r .
Book, over 300 latest songs, M Aa £ gI(
Bbnnarr Macfaddens Works, a J' l „sm.'
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers £
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. Ti ’K . ioO>
1s 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, A
Recitations and Readings, Laroß (
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webs' , eat
ABRIDGED DICTIONARY, 1100 P a =® S t . paV 3 and
bound, my price, 15s post P ald - lg «d. Du
guineas). Bootmaking and B™ A1B ';. ’ e - s Univ««
mos and Electric Motors, Is - d - M a?e8) c l<
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, iw f ~
' nested. The Secrets of oka
ASSISTANT AiN L» uumriimr. nV CLAIRvUIA^
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets f ius j 0 cc
is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and^
Is post. 2UU ULD-II.MR ouiwo . by rai


2
Zam-Buk is the Mother’s FrienJ •
A (’('IDFONTS will happen, even in the best-regulated
families. Healthy youngsters seem to be always
“in the wars”; housework abounds with mishaps
for busy wives and harassed mothers; and the bread-
winner often returns from work with a more
or less serious injury. Just what every home
needs is Zam-Buk, A pot and a bandage on
a handy shelf, where they are ready for
instant use, save untold pain, time and
money.
When the little one runs in from his
play with a wry face and smarting, dirt-filled
scrape on his knee, simply wash the part and
smear with Zam-Buk. When father cuts or
scrapes his hand, the handy pot of Zam-Buk
again meets the emergency, and the house-
wife or mother continually finds it a real
friend in need for the burns she receives
while cooking, the scalds of a washing day,
or the knocks and bruises of dusting.
Children like Zam-Buk because it is
cooling, soothing and pleasant. Their elders value it
still more highly because it is also antiseptic, prevent-
ing poisoning, festering, and because it is good for 1
the tenderest skin. Daily mishaps make Zam-Buk a
daily need, therefore “keep Zam-Buk handy” is the
sound home motto.
%■
LI
its getting
V better*
| Every Home Needs Zam-BuK.
BOY’S SCALDS AND GIRL’S SORES HEALED.
Mrs. Marion Crimmings, Forsyth and Penshurst Streets,
Willoughby, North Sydney, says:—“A tin of boiling water burst
and the scalding water poured out all over the face and shoulders
of my little boy, Joe. One side of his face swelled out into an
enormous blister, which broke and left the surface in a raw state.
We applied oil and the white of an egg. Later we dressed the
injury with Zam-Buk, which healed his face in a week or two.
“My little girl, Kathleen, had an eruption of sores break
out on her head. Zam-Buk completely cured her.”
Inm-Bu
RUB
n IK!
Zam-Buk is excellent
for eczema, ulcers, ring-
worm, bad legs, rashes,
eruptions, pimples,
sores, piles, sore faces,
chilblains, cuts, burns,
festerings, and injured
and diseased conditions
of the skin and tissue.
Of all chemists and
stores at Is. 6d. and 3s.
6d. per pot (Ss. 6d.
holds nearly four times
the Is. 6d.).
The
Best
Australian Books
For Christmas Presents to Friends at Home and Abroad.
“SNOWY RIVER” SERlES.—Australian Verse and Prose.
We are celebrating the issue of the 51st thousand of Paterson’s “Man from the Snowy
River” by publishing it and the other volumes of the “Snowy River” Senes, in a much more
attractive binding than formerly, and by reducing the price. Henry Lawson s Works are also
issued in uniform binding, making in all 18 Volumes, handsomely bound in doth, with gilt tops
and all the portraits and illustrations contained in the original 5/- editions, price 3s. 6d. each.
Special Presentation Edition of the 14 Volumes of Verse (4 Vols. of Lawson’s Prose being
omitted), bound in full morocco, with gilt edges and round corners, price 6/- each.
Postage on either the cloth or the leather binding costs 2d. to any address in the Common-
wealth ; sd. to N.Z. ; or lOd. Abroad, per Volume.
Where the Dead Men Lie, and other
Poems. By BARCROFT HENRY BOAKE.
With memoir, portraits, and 32 illustrations;
cloth, 3/6; full morocco, 6/-
This new edition contains several poems not in
the original issue, which has been out of print and
scarce for ten years.
At Dawn and Dusk.
DALEY. With portrait,
By VICTOR J.
cloth, 3/6 ; full
morocco, 6/-
“Open the book where you will, you are caught
at once into a land of dreams.” —The Bulletin.
Wine and Roses. By VICTOR J. DALEA.
With portrait, cloth, 3/6 ; full morocco,
Contains a memoir by Bertram Stevens, and the
best of Daley’s later work.
How He Died, and Other Poems. By
JOHN FARRELL. With memoir and portrait,
cloth, 3/6; full morocco, 6/-
Farrell has been called “the father of The
Bulletin School,” and his vigorous colloquial
verse has a large circle of admirers.
The Secret Key, and Other Verses. By
GEORGE ESSEX EVANS. With portrait, cloth,
3/6; full morocco, 6/-
Essex Evans is par excellence Australia’s patri-
otic poet. His work is imbued with a cheerful
optimism, and the pioneers of the Commonwealth
find in him their panegyrist.
In the Days When the Worhl Was
Wide, and other Verses. By HENRY
LAWSON. With portrait, cloth, 3/6; full
morocco, 6/-
Lawson’s great host of admirers will now be
able to procure this popular volume at a popular
price.
Verses Popular and Humorous. By
HENRY LAWSON. With illustrations, cloth,
3/6; full morocco, 6/-
Much of Lawson’s favorite work is in this
volume.
When I was King, and other Verses.
By HENRY LAWSON. With illustrations,
cloth, 3/6; full morocco, (!/-.
Contains the best work done by Lawson in the
last ten years.
Fair Girls and Gray Horses, with
other Verses. By WILL H. ogilue.
With portrait, elotn, 3/6; full morocco,
C 5 / *■
A new edition, revised by the Author. Its
popularity increases daily.
Hearts of Gold and other Verses.
By WILL H. OGILVIE. New edition, printed
from new type, cloth, 3/6; full morocco,
67-
Now that this volume is obtainable m large,
clear type, it will appeal to all who have read
and enjoyed Ogilvie’s other work.
The Man from Snowy River, and
other Verses. By A. B. PATERSON.
With portrait, cloth, 3/6; full morocco,
6/-
50,000 copies were sold at 5/-, and the rate of
sale still increases.
Rio Grande’s Last Race, and other
Verses. By a. b. paterson. cloth,
3/6; full morocco, 6/-
Every possessor of “The Man from Snowy River
should” have this companion volume.
The Poetical Works of Rrunton
Stephens. Rearranged and printed from
new type, with portrait, cloth, 3/6; full
morocco, 6/-
The most philosophical of Australian poets —and
yet a humorist, too, as every reader of “My
Chinee Cook” and the “Ode to a Black Gin” can
testify.
The Golden Treasury of Australian
Verse. Edited, with Introduction and
Notes, by BERTRAM STEVENS New
(fourth) edition, revised and enlarged, cloth,
3/6; full morocco, 6/-
This volume contains 400 pages of the cream of
Australian verse, and is well worth keeping handy
for reference.
HENRY LAWSON’S PROSE
WORKS.
A new edition, handsomely bound in cloth, with
gilt tops (uniform with the “Snowy River”
Series), 3/6 each, postage 2d. in the Com-
monwealth ; sd. to N.Z. ; lOd. Abroad.
While the Billy Boils.
This book has placed Lawson in (he front rank
of the world’s short story writers.
On the Track and Over the Sliprails.
This volume sustains the author's reputation
right worthily.
-loe Wilson and His Mates.
« Contains much of his best and most humorous
prose work.
Children of the Bush.
Not so well known, on account of original publi-
cation in England, but as vivid and human as his
best.
Obtainable from all Booksellers, Bookstalls and Newsagents, or direct from the Publishers
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD., 89 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
The Garden.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I WALKED that garden many fearful
days,
Half in a madness, half in glad amaze
At sight of so strange blossoms blooming so,
Lolling their bloated petals to and fro
Above the stagnant waters that beneath
Bubbled awhile, then belched a foetid breath
Towards the longing blossoms, leaning over
As if to woo the beetle things that hover
In drowsed unquiet o'er the pool’s expanse.
I walked that garden, walked as in a
trance;
At mid of night I walked it, and at noon
(Though never light there was of sun or
moon)
Until I knew the thing that must he done
Ere yet Her soul lie cleansed, our goal be
won,
And on us both could fall oblivion.
I called Her softly, called Her by Her name;
Across the garden licked a viper dame.
Again I called Her softly.... Then She
came.
She came with tender sorrow in Her eyes;
The same sweet sorrow that had made Her
wise
And maddened me at loss of Her. Her hair
Tumbled in glory down her back, and fair,
As never fairer seemed it, was the face
That looked upon me, looked with love upon
me,
Longingly, longingly.... in that fearful
place.
I did not speak—words vainly could express
The stir within me —did not seek to press
The hands She placed in mine; the subtle
lore
Of long star-dreamings told my purpose more
Than any words. Full glad was She to know
This was the end, and that the end was so.
We walked that garden, just we two alone
Who had so much to compass and atone ;
We walked that garden, mid of night and
noon
(Though never light there was of sun or
moon),
In each our souls was such a rich intent,
The blossoms stayed their nuptialing and
bent,
Their gold corollas round to us as though
They knew our love and longed to ease its
woe,
Swaying in rhythm, solemn, sad and slow.
I laid Her (we had walked for many years,
Many a day of wrnnder, more of tears)
Where just it seemed She best would like
to be,
A little moss-grown ledge Her sanctuary—
For, as we walked, the garden’s scented
breath
Had dowered Hope to me, to Her but Death.
I knelt beside Her (many dreaming years.
Many a day of wonder, more of tears).
T knelt beside Her, vigilling Her sleep ;
My heart was holy, and I felt a sweep
Of choral music, faint as though it were
Borne from some sky-hid misty planisphere.
Wrapping my senses. Who can know or tell
The whence it was? I only know I fell
And that I slept (for many dreaming years,
For many a day of wonder, more of tears).
I walk this garden many happy days,
No more in madness but in full amaze ;
I walk this garden (mid of night and noon.
For rich the light is now' of sun and moon).
The menace of its fearfulness has gone.
One flower alone is in it, one alone,
That grows and buds and blossoms in my
soul —
Fools, you would pluck it for a buttonhole!
QUEENSLAND.
BERNARD INGLEBY.
Disappointment.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT was all owing to the literary excellence
of the men who wrote the fine “Form of
Solemnisation of Matrimony which
the bench of bishops in its wisdom has
placed in the Common Prayer Book some
distance after the Form of Public Baptism
of inlants, and in the vicinity of "The Order
for the Visitation of the Sick.’’
The Rev. William Littleboy, his foolish
little face shining with benevolence that
went no farther than mere goodwill, told
the bride and bridegroom to stand up before
him while he, the matrimonial blacksmith,
riveted on them the welcome fetters of mar-
riage. And the Rev. Littleboy seemed to
take much pleasure in hearing his own
sounds. He let them off nothing of the ser-
vice, though being very young and very clean
they bore up patiently, regarding it as the
sacrament the parsonical bleat stated it to
be. Almost affected to tears by the beauty
of his own voice, the Rev. William Littleboy
had proceeded at great length telling them
of the ordination of matrimony for the pro-
creation of children, until the little soft, pink
bride blushed —not with shame, for she felt
none, but with embarrassment at being so
lectured before a sepulchre filled with abso-
lute strangers. The fine wording of the con-
tract —“to love, to comfort, to honor, to keep
in sickm ss and in health and forsaking all
other. Keep thee only unto her so long as
ye both shall live”—found the young man s
soul and called to action all the protective
manhood of him. All the mysteries of lite
and death came to the twain for explana-
tion, and were explained even if only for a
moment by the acceptance—“to take him for
thy wedded husband, to have and to hold
from this day forward, for better, for worse,
for richer, for poorer, in sickness and in
health, to love and to cherish, and obey till
death us do part, and thereto I give thee my
troth.”
The literary music of the dead man who
wrote it held them to believe it absolutely
true, absolutely certain of fulfilment. And
then the Rev. Littleboy bleated again and
brought them down to an earth that reads
newspapers which report proceedings in the
divorce and admiralty division.
The bride’s mother was a heavy lady, and
she deeply regretted the existence ot the
long-winded Littleboy, and in her pain stood
first on one leg and then on the other, tid-
ing to keep her own weight moving.. And the
Rev. Littleboy droned on. He instanced
Isaac and Rebecca. He spoke of children like
olive branches round about the table, and
said it without any pause, so that it appeared
that he advocated horticulture in the dining-
room. lie spoke of Abraham and Sarah
(discreetly suppressing any allusion to
Abimelech, Lord Mayor of Mesopotamia).
And then he got round to ordinary good
sense again, and hoped that the little, soft,
pink bride might be “loving and amiable,
faithful and obedient to her husband ; and in
all quietness, sobriety and peace be a fol-
lower of good and holy matrons.” Finally,
he told her that if she were like Sarah she
would not be “afraid with any amazement,”
and immediately proceeded to make her so
by preaching at her and the new bridegroom
all from his own mind and without the sav-
ing grace of diction with beauty.
At long last the voice ended, and the organ
rolled the Wedding March uo to the groined
roof of cedar and down to the floor of stone,
and they went out to its music, quietly tri-
umphant—even if they were to be drudges
ever after and never know another moment
of victory in the world.
The day was blue and gold. Tender airs
swayed the red tresses of the pepper trees
in the long, wide slreet leading to the bridge
over the Murrumbidgee and the saltbush
plain beyond. The bridegroom, who had
driven his widowed mother to church in the
buggy, horsed with a pair of greys that
seemed proud of their wedding favors, now
abandoned his mother and cleaved unto his
wife. He would have abandoned his father
too, but his father had abandoned himself,
two years before, by dying.
The bridegroom helped the little, soft,
pink bride into the buggy and drove her
down the avenue of pepper trees, and she
was no more backward than he; sitting very
closely to him, partly because the buggy seat
was narrow and partly because she didn’t
want to be far away. In this order they
reached the bride’s mother’s house (where
was laid the wedding breakfast —so called
because it was eaten in the afternoon), dis-
tant two miles from the church. They were
a little ahead of the others, and he led her
into the drawing-room and took her into his
arms.
“My darling!” he said. “I almost des-
paired of ever being alone.”
“I was afraid, too, dear.”
“Sweetheart!”
He lifted her head, and tilted her chin to
kiss her; but he had only put his lips to hers
when they heard a voice that obscured the
beauty of the day. Instinctively she drew
away from him as the shadow of the Rev.
Littieboy fell upon the carpet and the bleat
of the Rev. Littieboy drove the hope of dab
liance far from them.
“My dear young friends,” said the Rev.
Littieboy, and began to preach again. He
preached until after the arrival of the wed-
ding guests, who would have liked to beat
his breast and other parts of him when they
heard his loud bassoon ; and they fled to the
breakfast. The groom’s mother at last res-
cued the Rev. Littieboy from his own dire
eloquence, and he led the way to the dining-
room a little in advance of the groom’s
mother, and still retaining the limelight for
himself.
So they ate and drank and pretended to be
merry; all except the bride and the groom,
who felt that they were not in the picture
and should be gone. But if the groom pro-
posed the Rev. Littieboy disposed. He ate
as for the whole conventicle of bishops.
Their respect for him as a guest and for
themselves kept them at the table while he
held communion with a roast fowl and
argued triumphantly with a bottle of white
wine. The little bride felt the presence of
the strength beside her, and the groom
touched the laces of her gown and was elec-
trified. They sat there wishing that this
ravening sheep in wolf’s clothing would wish
aloud that he might be permitted to eat
alone. The bridegroom’s mouth was dry
with longing, and when the Rev. Littieboy
wiped his lips and put his napkin on the
table the groom felt with horror that the
matrimonial farrier was about to strike more
sparks from his anvil.
The Rev. Littieboy arose, and the bride
asked the lady next her for the smelling
“My dear friends,” said the Rev. Little-
boy. “Be-foah our young friends depart into
a new life I would ask you to charge you-ah
glasses and drink long life and happiness to
them. They are about to enter on a most
momentous crisis in their lives —in his life
—in her life —in both their lives. They are
about to do as did the ancient prophet and
their wives ; Abraham and Sarah, Isaac and
Ilebek-ah, Jacob and —er —Leah and —er —
Rachel —that is to say, Jacob and his wives
—I mean his wife. To go forth into the
world, to be helpmate to each other as their
deah fathers and mothers were, as their
deah children shall be after them.”
The bride sniffed the smelling-bottle ener-
getically twice.
“They are about to go into the world
alone, and yet not alone, for each will be
with the othah, each will soothe the othah’s
feahs, each will calm the othah’s woes, and
when death comes each will close the othah’s
eyes. And that is what life teaches us —to
be good, to be noble, to be kindly, to be
loving, and when the time comes for our
translation to a nob-lah and bet-tah world
to say a prayer over each otli-ah and close
each otli-ah’s eyes. We see them heah to-
day surrounded by all the creature comforts,
the fruits of the world in due season, enjoy-
ing their love heah in our midst, and we
wish (hem strength and happiness. We see
them be ah surrounded by wealth, opulence
and riches, blessed in the plenitude of their
love, rich in the possession of each othah.
But the time will come when the quick flush
of youth has faded, the splendid strength is
lacking, the brightness of the eyes is
dimmed, and in that day they shall find the
necessity for moah than an earthly love to
bear the burden of parting—to endure the
pain of seeing a faithful partner taken to a
nob-lah and a bett-ali world, and a sorrow-
ing partner left.”
At this moment the bride, turning to-
wards the lady on her right, wept quietly
upon the lady’s shoulder.
“And now,” said the Rev. Littieboy so
much in the tone he used to wake the sleep-
ing congregation for the benediction that the
bride’s mother stood up. “And now 1 will
say no moah.”
The bride’s mother looked foolish, and sat
down again.
The bride stopped crying; the groom
looked almost hopeful ; the guests smiled.
(Continued on next page.)


THAT BACKACHE
WARNS YOU!
"Every
Picture
Tells a
Story
Do YOU get Pains in the Loins and Back?
Gravel? Dropsical Swellings? Rheumatism?
Kidney and Bladder Trouble is Serious!
Backache is generally misunderstood. Many people
neglect it because they believe it to be muscular weakness
due to overwork. So they wait for it to pass olf.
But when backache does not pass off, we know that the
pain comes not from the back, but from the kidneys, which lie
beneath the back.
It is a warning, and it is a serious warning, for when the
kidneys are weak the uric acid poison they leave in the blood
begins to spread all over the system
Makes your .back ache, your limbs ache —settles into
urinary sediment or gravel, which irritates the bladder and
keeps it in a constant state of discomfort —clogs the urinary
channels and stops the free passage of water, causing the
swellings of dropsy—forms into sharp, jagged crystals in the
muscles, joints and nerves, as in rheumatism and sciatica.
If you have any of these symptoms, begin with Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills without delay, for the longer kidney
trouble is neglected the harder it is to cure. Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills gently lead the kidneys back to health and
activity. They relieve the urinary system like laxative
medicines relieve the bowels. They prevent waste water from
staying too long in the body, and they drive out the uric acid
poison which causes the above symptoms and many more.
TWO LASTING CURES.
4 YEARS CURED.
Mr. F. J. Stark, grocer, wine and provision merchant, Regent Street,
Kogarah, Sydney, says :—“Some years ago a sudden, knife-like pain struck
me across the hack and side, which got so bad that I had to call in a
doctor. He did not cure me, and I went on suffering until 1 heard about
Doan’s Backache Kidney fills. As soon as I commenced to use these
pills I felt easier, and it only took three bottles to cure me. 1 am glad
to be free of the terrible pain, and can thank Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills alone for my cure.”
Four years later Mr. Stark says: “Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
permanently cured me, for I have had no return of backache for the past
four years. There is no doubt about it, Doan’s Backache Kidney I ills
are thoroughly good, and 1 can strongly recommend them to other
sufferers.”
5 YEARS CURED.
Mrs. Ohas. Reynolds, -1 Wyndham Street, Alexandria. Sydney,
says: "My back has been troubling me for a long time. The sharp,
shooting pains made my life a misery. I could not bend my back, amt
suffered great pain trying to get about to do my work. Even when lying
in bed at night I got no ease. I could not get anything to give me
relief, though I used a great many remedies. However, I at last got a
thoroughly good remedy in Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. these
wonderful pills stopped the pain like magic, and 1 have been quite tree
of it for two years now. No one need endure the agony of backache, fox
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills will carefully cure this ailment.”
Mrs. Reynolds confirms the above three years later: “I can now add
the important fact that I have been free of backache ever since Doan s
Backache Kidney Pills cured me five years ago.”
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all Chemists and Store-
keepers at 2/9 per bottle (six bottles 15/3) ; or posted on receipt of price
by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
DOAN’S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS
“I will say only just this,” continued the
Rev. Littleboy, looking benignantly at the
disappointed company—"that we wish the
young couple long life and happiness.” They
applauded, but he had to spoil it—not mali-
ciously, but because he was a simple soul
who did not know when to sit down. “Charge
yo-ah glasses, gentlemen. I propose the
health of the bride —wishing her and her
de-ah husband long life and happiness—and
the death of the righteous at the end.”
They drank the toast almost in silence so
much did the wish for a happy funeral de-
press them. The bridegroom responded in a
nurry. The bride’s mother signed to her to
leave the table, but the eloquence of the
Kev. Littleboy robbed the golden hours of
all their precious metal, and his long-winded-
ness reversed the procedure of the old
alchemists, and turned the aforesaid golden
hours to lead without alloy.
But at last the bride fled, and the brides-
maids followed her like startled hens, and
the bridegroom looked at his watch and
cursed the long eloquence of the Kev. Little-
boy, and in his impatience stood first on one
leg and then on the other, and whenever he
changed feet worried about the possibility
of missing the train. He also looked with
appiehensiou at the southern sky ; now piled
with thick rain-swollen clouds that drifted
quickly nearer on the wind.
The Kev. Littleboy at this stage expres-
sed the wish that he might pray with the
bride for a brief space before she departed
into the troubled sea of matrimony ; but they
restrained him, and a kindly maid-servant,
who felt very sorry for the bridegroom in his
detention, took an urgent message to the
bride to the effect that they had little time
to catch the four o’clock train. She respon-
ded as quickly 1 as the excited hennery around
her permitted, and joined him in the hall —a
beautifully trim and sweet little bride, in a
travelling gown of blue cloth that matched
her eyes —a fact she knew before anybody
else did —altogether very adorable, desirous
and desirable.
The Kev. Littleboy felt like singing hunt-
ing songs, and suggested stirrup cups, and
asked somebody to recite “Lochhivar,” but
the groom's friends managed to defeat all
these projects of delay, and after the kissings
and the tears the groom packed his bride
into the buggy, looked at the darkened
world, noted a few drops of rain, and
tucked the rug around her more closely.
Then came the last good-bye, and the usual
idiot threw the old boots of the establish-
ment, and poured two pounds of rice over the
bride’s hat. At last! * They were off, the
two greys galloping down the drive, while
the storm blew right over them, and the rain
came down. The bride snuggled closer. He
took reins and whip in his right hand, and
drew her under his left arm. And she
crouched like a partridge from the rain.
A whistle! Smoke like a white, wet
smear upon the sodden air! The bridegroom
drove into the station yard and cursed the
Kev. Littleboy’s eloquence. The train was
gone.
“Oh." said the bride, leaning upon bis
shoulder and weeping. “Oh George, you
swore.”
“I'm sorry.”
“You swore at me.”
“At you 1 Nonsense, dear—it was that
fool of a parson.”
“(Ur! lie’s not a fool —he married us.”
“lie's made 11s miss the train. Never
mind. I won't swear any more. I'll help
you down, and tie the horses up here. They’ll
send for them.”
“But the train, George. We simply can’t
go back.”
“Of course we won’t. There’s another
train in two hours —only its slow; and we'll
sit in the waiting-room.”
He led her past the great pile of then-
very new luggage, already s< ddened in the
rain, and on to the waiting-room. In the
general waiting-room a quite drunken swag-
man was arguing with a half-sober navvy.
The persecuted pair went to the other wait-
ing-room marked “Ladies,” and therein was
a red-faced female ruffian with two dead
fowls in a basket too small to permit the
corpses to rest at length, so that their naked
and unwashed feet protruded between the
lid and the edge. This person remarked as
the bridegroom entered that the room was
reserved for ladies, so George and his bride
withdrew and walked up and down on the
platform until the holy institution of mat-
rimony seemed to Consist exclusively in be-
coming damp and staying so.
It was a very tearful little bride that the
long deferred husband placed in the only
first-class coupe of the mixed train, with its
trucks of wool and sheep and cattle, and its
three second-class coupes of rude people,
including the swagman, the navvy, and the
female ruffian with the two dead fowls in
the basket.
George reserved the coupe for himself and
his bride. They watched the station clock
slowly—maddeningly—-crawl around to six
o’clock, and as the tickets were examined
and clipped they looked in each other’s eyes
and knew that fog five hours they would be
blessedly alone on the 120-mile journey
down the line.
But Fate can kill a man with a sulphur
match. In that moment that elapsed be-
tween the slamming of the last door and
the gripping by locomotive wheels on greasy
rails a man ran into the station. The porter
opened the door of the reserved coup# with
an apologetic “Can’t help it. sir; it’s the
only first-class,” to the bridegroom, and
threw a bundle of black clothes and a black
hat and two thick boots into the carriage.
These properties unrolled themselves and
sat up, saying:—
“My deah young friends —these railway
men are very rough, are they not?”
It was the Kev. Littleboy, and he said
that, in response to a sudden summons, he
was bound down the line a hundred miles
to preach in the absence of a friend.
In that first anguish of recognition they
felt all the bitterness of spirit that makes
suicides ; and when he spoke their one con-
solation was that he went not to their des-
tination but 20 miles short of it. “Ifeart
up.” thought the groom. “He leaves us in
four and a half hours.”
The train rattled and stopped at intervals,
and shunted trucks in the rain. They had
run into the storm that had blown as far
west as the starting-point. Here it had fal-
len in inches, and the train went on falter-
ingly feeling its way in the dark, through
shadowy gangs of men with red lamps and
over bridges that had let the mail train
through safely four hours before.
The Itev. Littleboy prattled through it all.
In the uncertain and dim light of the oil
lamp in the carriage roof the bridegroom
looked at him murderously, and the bride
made faces at him. lie was quite unconscious
of these attentions. He talked about his
ministry, and the sad state of the church
roof, and the turpitude of his little E flat
choir, and before lO o’clock they were ready
to embrace Judaism or the principles of the
Greek Church, merely in token of revolt.
At 11 the rattling train stopped dead, as if
the locomotive were a horse suddenly disco-
vering a precipice.
“Now, what in goodness is that?” asked the
Kev. Littleboy, blandly addressing the reek-
ing night as he let the window down and
looked out.
Hoarse cries were heard outside the carri-
age—the cries of fettlers running along and
commanding all men to come out —for the
train could go no further.
“Washaway, sir,” said the guard in an-
swer to the Kev. Littleboy. “Just become
dangerous. There’s three feet of water on
the rails half a mile ahead.”
“Indeed ! Deah me!” said the Rev. Little-
boy ; and then, turning to the happy couple,
he said. “My deah friends, we must alight
here if we would save ourselves alive.”
“There’s a wayside license half a mile
away,” said the guard. “If you want to get
at your luggage or the lady’s, sir, come into
the van.”
The bridegroom helped the bride down to
the sodden path of clay by the track, and
having packed a change for each of them in-
to a suit case, gave her his arm and led her
back along the rails to the light that twink-
led through the rain. The Kev. Littleboy
followed them, offering advice which had no
effect but to make them quicken their pace
and leave him almost out of earshot. Once
they heard him splashing and calling for
heln. and they knew he had fallen down the
embankment, and the knowledge made them
glad.
They reached the hotel, and found its half-
dozen rooms filled with people already, and
I'ftle room for railwav passengers. But
George bullied everybody and found some-
thing for the bride to eat and a hot drink,
and their clothes steamed by the fire as they
waited for the landlord to show them to their
room. They were almost happy when they
heard a voice as hated as it was familiar,
and the Rev. Littleboy—soddened and muddy
and with patches of clay upon his face —
came in.
“My deah young friends,” he said, “it
must be disheartening to’have all these acci-
dents happen upon your honeymoon.”
“Oh!” said the bride, looking at the grin-
ning faces about her, and seeing that her
secret was known.
“Shut up !” growled the bridegroom mena-
cingly to the Kev. Littleboy. Also the bride
entreated him ; but he would not.
“But still.” he said, “it may presage a
peaceful voyage once your barque is safely
on the sea.”
“Shut up !”
“My deah sir—my dear young lady—let
us be glad that we have saved ourselves
alive.”
The landlord returned, and the bridegroom
looked at him eagerly. “Very sorry, mum’”
said he. “We’ve no room to-night. You’ll
have to take a shake-down in a room with
my three daughters. And I can make up a
shake-down for your husband on the billiard-
table.”
And at the thought of the three daughters,
and because of the weariness and wetness
and the spectacle of the grinning audience,
the bride gave up in despair and wept
bitterly.
“We have saved ourselves alive,” said the
Rev. Littleboy. “Let us return thanks.”
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
The Prodigal Son.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AN old man had a son who did not
believe in living by day. It was bis
firstborn.
The old man grieved very much because
of the ways of the young man. The youth
thought of nothing but a good time.
The old man had men-servants, but no
maid-servants.
One day the old man told his firstborn
that he must go to work. But the first-
born only laughed and said: “Let father
work; lie’s the oldest.”
And when the father saw that he could
not rule his son he disowned him. But to
give him a chance he furnished him with
£2OOO, saying: “If you reform and come
back with another pound for every pound I
give you, then you will be my son again.”
The son then called his friends together,
both men and women, and he said: “The
old man has given me a couple of thou.;
let's go on a bender.”
And when the money was all gone the
young man became a disreputable object.
When he was not doing time, he was look-
ing for what lie could pick up.
One person would point him out to
another, saying, “You would not think he
is the son of old Jumbuck Wilson.” And
the other would say: “Just fancy! And
him such a respectable old man,”
At last the young man . saw that there
were no points in it. lie said to a friend:
“I’ll go home to my father, and see if I
can’t touch him for a couple more thou.”
And one evening he dropped his swag
through the drawing-rootn window as a sort
of visiting card, and hid behind a bush to
see what would turn up.
One of the men-servants went to the old
man and said: “Your son Bill has come
home again.”
The old man was surprised, and said:
“Where is he?”
The man-servant said: “I don’t know,
but I've just found his swag in the draw-
ing-room.”
Then the old man gave orders that all
the servants should go forth and find the
young man. his firstborn.
The young man saw them from behind
bushes, and kept dodging them.
The neighbors stood oft' in groups, won-
dering.
Then the second-born of the old man came
forth. The son of a neighbor’ said : “What
are your rouseabouts rushing round for?”
The second-born said :—•
“My brother has come home, and they
are going to kill the fat-headed cow.”
ROBERT BROTHERS.


S Westing'hcmse
Oil Engine
i
m
i ■
* -
For STATIONARY
and MARINE
PURPOSES
From 7 to 40 H.P.
No Carburetter or Vaporiser.
No Ignition Apparatus.
Makes
the following claims upon
your attention—
1 — It uses cheap lamp oil (such as kero-
sene), and other i-esiduals.
2 The oil is injected directly into the
cylinder, thus dispensing with unre-
liable and inefficient vaporisers.
3 It is very simple in construction, there
being no electric ignition or other
complicated mechanism.
4 Its speeds are such that electric generators
and centrifugal pumps may be coupled
direct.
s—No5 —No skilled labor is required, the supply
of fuel and lubricant being all the
attention necessary.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM
The Westinghouse Brake Company of Australasia Ltd.,
GEORGE STREET, CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
New Zealand Agents: Philips & Pike, Wellington.
rrrx
l to ~
Fairbanks-Morse
Marine Engines
For Pleasure and Work Boats
Start without cranking, run smoothly, de-
velop full rated power. Simple, compact.
All parts interchangeable. Remarkable for
their reliability and economy. High Speed
Engines, 3% to 24 H.P. Slow Speed
Engines, 7% to 15 H.P,
Ask for Catalog
CV 1939.
Fairbanks-Morse Oil Engines
Operate on Kerosene, Petrol (Gasoline) or Distillate.
Stationary and Portable sizes, 2 to 200 H.P.
Ask for Catalog AT. 1939.
Fairbanks-Morse Eclipse Engines
Small, sturdy Engines, especially suited for
pumping or running light machinery.
Simple, compact. Two sizes. Will operate
nnv windmill pump. Ask for Catalog 1939
VP.
Fairbanks, Morse & Co.,
Chicago, 111., U.S. A>
F.n
C. H. Relph,
Sydney, N.S.W,
Webster S Co. Ltd..
Brisbane, Queensland.
Mallach Bros.,
Perth, W.A.
FOR STEAM USERS.
PEC>STt»EC,
NOT a Boiler Fluid, but a Preparation containing Pure Carbon to be applied
to the internal surfaces of boilers like a paint. Absolutely prevents pitting and
corrosion and the deposit of hard scale. Used regularly by the New South
Wales Government Railways and Tramways, Sydney Municipal Council, and
many of the Largest Steam Users in Australia.
AULD’S REDUCING VALVES.
The World's Standard Reducing Valve for Steam, Air or Water. Simple and
Reliable. Hundreds in use in Australia. We carry heavy stocks of all sizes.
ALSO AGENTS FOR-
Engelbert’s Famous Oils, Nichols’ Boiler Feed Pumps,
Stirling Water Tube Boilers, etc., etc.
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
GOLDFIELDS DIAMOND DRILLING CO. Pty.Ltd.
331 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Works—Sturt St., S. Melbourne.
BORING CONTRACTORS
and MANUFACTURERS.
V. * y •, T, '.'lt : .y' A ■ ;! > x r -’\, r> ' \ ~'A' (-•- *
Armstrong Traction and All-Steel Boring
Machines, Tools and Casing in stock.
Gasoline and Kerosene Engines, Wind-
mills, Pumps, Silos, Hay Presses,
Wagons, etc., etc.
°<2&
**s
RUMELY TRACTOR.
Works continuously on CHEAPEST Kerosene
THE LONE
Beecham’s
Pills
have done so much, all over the world, to make dyspeptic people healthy that
their popularity and success are a matter of course. The ingredients of which
the World’s Household Remedy is composed are the very substances provided
by Nature herself for the cure of indigestion and similar ailments. It is
evident, therefore that Beecham’s Pills
Will Do You
more good than other preparations not composed of the same healing proper*
ties. So, whenever you find your stomach or liver the least bit out of order
just take a dose of Beecham’s Pills and put yourself right. This is an easy,
safe, simple, and sensible way of maintaining your health. Beecham’s Pills
will always do you
A World of Good.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price 111 l (56 pills) 219 (168 pills).
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
. . . AT . . .
THE BANKING HOUSE, 228 Pitt Street,
Opposite PALACE THEATRE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LENDS MONEY ON ALL SECURITIES, including Furniture,
FROM 10 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
FRED. McWILLIAM, Manager.
m
m
iiUiiUiuHui l ;-:
20th Century Band Saw.
KIRCHNER’S
Woodworking Machines
are giving satisfaction.
Write for Catalogue and Information
direct to the
MANUFACTURERS—
KIRCHNER & CO.,
32 Market Street, SYDNEY
Automatic
Knife Grinding
Machine.
Metz-“22£190
The Simple Car for the Country.
These Serviceable Cars are at Work all over N.S.W.
If you require a Simple, Economical, Reliable and Moderately-priced Car it will
pay you to investigate the METZ. Friction Drive (eliminating complicated
gear wheels), 22 H.P., 4 cyl. Bosch Ignition, 10£in. clearance, 45m. p. hour,
33m. p. gallon.
Street, SYDNEY.
The British-built
Waver ley, £350.
Indian Motocycles,
®sgns.
A CORRESPONDENT writes: “There is
always one feature in The Lone
Hand each month that is alone worth the
price charged for the whole number.” The
price of The Lone Hand is 6d.
COLORED POST-CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston —“WEEKLY W ORRIES.” Set
of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin News-
paper Co., 214 George Street, Sydney.
ASTHMA CURE
BHIMAUITS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma. Nerrous Oonghe,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieTcd by GRIMAULT & Co's IKDIAN cm aa.
ETTES. Bold by all ChrmitH.
HB 535 m
if 111*
We carry a complete range of modern
woodworking tools, including:—
PANEL PLANERS,
SPINDLE MOULDERS,
CHAIN MORTISERS,
TENONING MACHINES,
SANDERS,
DOVETAILERS,
LATHES, etc., etc.
T. M. GOODALL & CO.
LIMITED,
Universal Machinery Merchants,
303-5 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
T. & R. Lees’
Three-Cutter
Planer.
There’s not much use in telling a
fellow he is doing something wrong; it’s
telling him how to do it better that helps
most.
Here’s a machine that will be a prac-
tical help to any woodworker. It will
plane or mould three sides at once, and
has an improved variable feed-motion
with three speeds which can be stopped
or started instantly. Dispenses with the
intermediate countershaft.
With this machine you can plane, joint,
tongue and groove, rebate and thickness
all kinds of timber, and work mouldings
and skirtings. You can see how com-
pact and solid it is—a machine built for
Sound service and plenty of it. Stocked
in sizes which will plane from 12in. to
24in. x 6 in. Write our expert for full
details.


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Kire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
2nd Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, qr cal) and inspect.
MACK LTD.,
Royal Insurance Bdldings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
12in. Pan
taking
45 Watts
FANS
For All Voltages
and Systems.
Stocked in Desk, Wall and Ceiling Types.
Rigid Body, Swivel and Trunnion, and Oscillating Patterns.
PRICES MODERATE. Send for Lists.
OF AUSTRALIA Ltd.
SYDNEY : Wynyard Lane. 3520 city.
MELBOURNE: 61 William Street. sm city.
BRISBANE: Corner Saul 8 Roma Streets. 3676 Central
Hardie’s Genuine
Used In place of Weatherboards and Plaster
for Walls, Ceilings and Partitions.
FIRE. ROT, HEAT, ACID 8 ANT PROOF.
ERECTED COST SAME AS
WEATHERBOARDS.
Our 20-page Booklet B free on application.
JAMES HARD IE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney;
and at Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
?
M
i"
Spirit
WOLFES
For women
CONSIDERATION in STEAJT ECONOMY
A PERFECT INSULATION.
NEWALL’S MAGNESIA SECTIONAL '
STEAfI PIPE & BOILER COVERINGS
Ensure the Maximum
Efficiency,
Showing a Saving of nearly 50%
over ordinary coverings.
J. WILD RIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD.,
82 PITT
MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and PERTH.
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRONFOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Valves, Pumps, Fluming,
Patent “ Nelyambo ” Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Fluming, Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought Iron Work .
, * ✓
Head Office and General Engineering Works : Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
Iff' n Y" i«A
Philips Pressed Steel Split Pulleys.
Their Pleasing Design, Strength &, Facility for Erecting
commend the Philips to all Sltilled Engineers.
That noticeable feature —THEY ALWAYS RUN TRUE—is secured by careful methods of boring
the centres so that perfect concentricity is obtained. Wobbly pulleys are the results of inaccur-
acies in boring the centres and lack of care in the construction of the BUSHES. A Patent
Interchangeable Bushing System allows of their being utilised on various sizes of shafting—
and being split can be taken down and mounted without disturbing other equipment.
Allow us to demonstrate, as a power- and money-saving proposition, the adaptability of instal-
ling Philips Pulleys in your plant. Write for Price Lists and Discounts.
Engineers 8 Machinery Merchants,
60 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
• ' 'yV
.
- ’ > ;
t
u
?V>;
'*n
\:
m
Mill f I
GARDNER ENGINES
MARINE .id STATIONARY.
KEROSENE BENZINE TOWN and SUCTION GAS.
Simplicity Low Running Cost Non-Carbonising .
Highest Class Material and Workmanship No Back Firing.
STOCKS HELD „
■
V . . ' T < W
A'
<r,.v #
mrM
Equitable Building, Sydney
10 George Street, Camperdown
