

DEWAR’S THE GENIAL SPIRIT.
R. WATKINS & CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 10*7 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining* and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always availa e.
IT IS NOT COMPULSORY
but it is wise, if an advance of money is required, to go to
The N.S.W. Mont de Piete D. & I. Co. Ltd.
74 Castlereagh St„ Sydney 74.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
Money Advanced upon All Classes of Security at Lowest Rates of Interest.
215-317 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENfcETT,
Genera] Manager.
rnTn
fc£u£i
mi*
9
i .
THE
0.13 ART.
Tm.
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING
Goaeantkbd
J. C. Ludowici «& Son, Ld,
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
ĥ
? Take it back." «
I must have-
HUTTON’S
Pine-Apple Brand
WWW
CHUBB’S
FIRE
RESISTING
32 RECIPES
for preparing a variety of the most
dainty Desserts with
HANSENS
uunket
fgh
WI
wiH be forwarded, Post Free to Any
Address, on application to
PALMER CORD
are specially constructed to ensure Long Service.
TYRES
the silvertown RUBBER CO.,
SYDNEY—MELBOURNE—NEWCASTLE
g
DRINK
BEER
BECK
Mine
Head Office for Australasia :
CHALLIS HOUSE, SYDNEY.
Agents Everywhere.
Every building where roof durability, reliability,
fire=retarding, water and weatherproof qualities
are required, calls for a roof of
and
GLADLY SENT.
D. S. EVANS, Australasian Manager.
The Paraffine Paint Co.
Sm
fhfg
HOPPER WACCONS.
PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE> CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY LT?
h
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T °
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
£©l
pm
Safeguard your interests. Be on the side of the
“majority,” and you will be “liberal” in your praise of
Moffat-Virtue Sheep Shearing Machinery.
Moffat-Virtue Machinery holds the “votes” of the
Australian Pastoralist and Shearer for highest efficiency
and economical maintenance.
Send for Catalogue “0.A.”
jliffiUrtuefii
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
352 Kent St. (near King st.) y Sydney.
HELIDON SPA
The wonderful efficacy of HEUDON SPA STARKEYS LTD.,
lies in its capacity for rapid absorption.
Agents,
Redfern
Phillip St., Sydney, and
The Bulletin
V01.34—N0. 1740.1
[Thursday, June 19, 1913.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Our GREAT BOOK SALE,
is still going on.
Books in all departments of literature at GREATLY REDUCED PRICES.
This sale is a splendid opportunity for Literary Institutes and others to
replenish their libraries. Thousands of novels offered at 6d., 1/-, 1/6 each.
OUR 64 PAGE SALE CATALOGUE post free on application.
CrroRGE ROBERTSON & CO PROP., LTD., -—238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
ROUND TABLE.
"T HE eleventh number of the Round Table will be to
1 hand in a few days, and will contain articles on:
THE BALKAN WAR AND BALANCE OF POWER.
MINISTERS AND STOCK EXCHANGE.
GRAIN GROWERS MOVEMENT IN WESTERN 7
CANADA. ETHICS OF EMPIRE,
besides political articles from, the Dominions.
Annual subscription. 10/- post free; 2/6 per copy.
Obtainable from McMILLAN k CO.. 109 Russell
Street. Melbourne; aryl all booksellers throughout
tlie Commonwealth and New Zealand.
Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes
For Coughs, Colds,
Sore Throat and the
Prevention of
Consumption.
A. The Larynx
or Organ of
Voice.
B. The Trachea
or Windpipe.
C. The Bron-
chial Tubes
of Dissected
Lunsr.
D. The Lobe of
one of the
Lungs
mm
W
CAUTION.—The large sale for E urn ent
JUJUBES” has led to a n “ mbe / ™ 0 f
tions being manufactured mto the
menthol and other jujubes. It is P
therefore, when buying, to be »u ItiaV
HUDSON'S “Eumenthol Jujubes. Tou n g .
be asked to buy other jujubes, and ,< Rlimen thol
are “just as good” as Hudsons Eu
Jujubes.” This proves that
and substitutes have no reputahan rep Ute
own, and can only be sold on the - jhoi
and high character of Hudsons Eum
Jujubes.” ,
SOLD BY CHEMISTS, Tins 1 o.
Forwarded post free on receipt of stamps
by the Manufacturers, . , ~ ,
"Hudson’s Eumenthol Chemical _•>
19 York Street,
Box 1520 G.P.O. " _
The Red Page
Modern Plays
Arnold Bennett is a disappointing
dramatist. He can occasionally give the
public what it wants; he has humor, some
sense of characterisation, and some ideas;
hut one feels that he regards his play-writ-
ing as play. He does not devote to the
drama that fine seriousness and careful
craftsmanship that he puts into his great
novels; rather his plays belong to that
Arnold Bennett who can and does with a
cynical light-heartedness write “billy-
boilers” in the intervals between his serious
works. And his essavs for the stage show
no evidence of an improving dramatic tech-
nique. In What the Public Wants he gave
us a clever satire upon the half-penny
press; in The Honeymoon he relapsed into
a mechanical and unconvincing comedy; in
Milestones he, aided by Edward Knoblauch,
developed an original idea —the authorship
of which is not stated- —in a convincing
way; but now, in The Great Adventure
(Methuen), he becomes again merely the
“slick” writer for a not too critical audi-
ence. This play is apparently founded on
an early novel of his, Buried Alive, and if
looks like the usual dramatised novel. With
the exception of two characters all the per-
sonae are of the traditional conventional
stage kind. And to tell his story Bennett
requires four acts, each divided by the
dropping of the curtain into two scenes.,
Practically, therefore, he needs eight acts.
There is no dramatic objection to this de-
vice, of course, but the modern dramatist
who shows so little control over his material
lays himself open to the charge of clumsi-
ness.
Ilam Carve, an illustrious English artist,
is so shy that he is unable to correct the
mistake made by the doctor called in to
treat his dying valet that the sick man is
the artist. And as the valet Carve allows
the valet’s body to be buried in Westminster
Abbey. It is not only his relief at this easy
way of escaping the adulation of the public
that keeps Carve silent: it happens that he
meets a charming girl. As the valet he
marries her, and lives happily in a suburban
cottage, sustained on the joint income
afforded by his wife’s small dividends and
a small annuity. The matter-of-fact Janet
says: “What good has it ever done him (the
alleged dead Carve) to be celebrated and
make a big splash in the world? Was he
any happier for it? For all I can hear he
was always trying to hide, just as if the
police were after him.”
Janet him to fool about with
paints, as it keeps him out of her way when
she’s tidying the house. Then come the
inevitable farcical complications. An art
dealer recognises the hand of the dead
master in some of his recent paintings, sold
for pocket-money by Carve to a local frame-
maker. Also the dead valet’s wife arrives,
and identifies him as her absconding hus-
band of 26 years ago. And the art dealer,
who has been selling to an American col-
lector the recent work of the artist, is sued
by the collector for fraud. And both sides
are determined to produce Carve in the N
witness-box. But a whisper comes from
“influential quarters” that, as the English
nation has buried a valet in the Abbey, the
matter must be hushed up. So London is done
out of an amusing trial, and Bennett allows
us to see that trial practically take place in
private. By the disclosure of the hackneyed
old mole that has been on the back of the
neck, and occasionally on the left arm, of
every hero and heroine of melodrama, the
identity ot Carve is established, and we
leave him wondering: “Last time they
buried me in the Abbey—what will they do
with me next time?”
In the character of Janet, Bennett has his.
sole excuse for this comedy. And she is a
fine excuse. The charming, matter-of-fact
woman has seldom before been so delight-
fully put upon the stage. Her solid sense
gives reality even to the fantastic plot.
Janet supplies a convincing argument
when her husband is “identified” by the
valet’s wife as her bloke. “There’s no doubt
the poor creature once had a husband who
did run off. And it seems fairly clear his
name was Albert Shawn, and he ,went away
as a valet to an artist. But then, on the
other hand, if there is one thing certain in
this world, it is that you were never
married before you married me. That I
will swear to.”
But what is to be said for a modern
dramatist who thinks it necessary to pro-
vide a “curtain” at this cost? Carve is
awkwardly folding up a pair of trousers —
this is before their marriage—-while he asks
her to lunch with him at his hotel on the
morrow.
Janet (timidly): I should like to.
(Suddenly) Here, give me those trousers,
do! (She takes hold of one leg, Carve re-
taining the; other.)
(Enter Cyrus Carve.)
Cyrus: Oh !
Curtain.
The latest Shaw appears in Overruled, a
dramatic study in the May issue of that ex-
cellent magazine, Tiie English Review.
As usual, in this one-act play,. Shaw does
not worry to invent a plot. He just snatches
the nearest one. It happened that Mr. and
Mrs. Lunn determined to take a holiday sep-
arately. On the same day that Lunn starte.d
to go round the world in one direction, his
wife set out, with the same intention, in the
opposite direction. Curiously enough, Mr.
and Mrs. Juno had the same idea. And,
strangely, Mr. Juno travelled all the way
with Mrs. Lunn, while Mr. Lunn had for
travelling companion Mrs. Juno. By a re-
markable coincidence Lunn and Mrs. Juno
arrived in the lounge of a seaside hotel on
their arrival in England on the same day
that Juno and Mrs. Lunn happened—
amazing that such things could be! —to
reach the same lounge in the same hotel.
And —so romantic is this life of ours—
Gregory Lunn was in love with Mrs. Juno,
and Juno was infatuated with Mrs. Lunn.
(In the background one can imagine Shaw
shaking the hand of the long hairy arm of
coincidence.)
Some samples of the latest Shaw: —
“Do you know why half the couples who
find themselves situated as we are now be-
have horridly?”
“Because they can’t help it if they let
things go too far.”
“Not a bit of it. It’s because they have
nothing else to do, and no other way of en-
tertaining each other. You don’t know
what it is to be alone with a woman who
has little beauty and less conversation.
What is a man to do? She can’t talk in-
terestingly ; and if he talks that way himself
she doesn’t understand him. He can’t look
at her; if he does, he only finds out that
she isn’t beautiful. Before the end of five
minutes they are both hideously bored.
There’s only one thing that can save the
situation: and that’s what you call being
horrid. With a beautiful, witty, kind
woman, there’s no time for such follies. It’s
so delightful to look at her, to listen to her
voice, to hear all she has to say, that noth-
ing else happens. This is why the
woman who is supposed to have a thousand
lovers seldom has one; whilst the stupid,
graceless animals of women have dozens.”
J*
Here is the other pair:—
Juno: We are the most romantic people
in the world, we English. Why, my very
presence here is a romance.
Mrs. Lunn (faintly ironical ) : Indeed?
Juno : You’ve guessed, of course, that
I’m a married man.
Mrs. Lunn : Oh, that’s all right. I’m a
married woman.
Juno : Thank Heaven for that! To my
English mind, passion is not real passion
without guilt The tragedy of my life
is that I married, when quite young, a
womaa I simply couldn’t help being very
fond of. I longed for a guilty passion: for
the real thing: the wicked thing; and yet
I couldn’t care twopence for any other
woman when my wife was about I
felt my youth slipping by without ever hav-
ing had a romance in my life; for marriage
is all very well; but it isn’t romance.
There’s nothing wrong in it, you see
You get so sick of being happily married.
It’s always the happy marriages that break
up
Juno: But you? Are you really as in-
sensible as you say you are?
Mrs. Lunn : I never said anything of
the kind. I’m not at all insensible by
nature; but (I don’t know whether you’ve
noticed it) I am what people call rather a
fine figure of a -woman.
Juno (passionately) : Noticed it! Have
I been able,to notice anything else since we
met?
Mrs. Lunn : There you go. like all the
rest of them! I ask you, how do you ex-
pect a woman to' keep up what you call her
sensibility when this sort of thing has hap-
pened to her about three times a week ever
since she was 17. It used to upset me and
terrify me. at first. Then I g.ot rather a
taste for it. It came to a climax with
Gregory: that was why I .married him.
Then it became a mild lark, hardly worth
the trouble. After that I found it valuable
once or twice as a spinal tonic when I was
run down: but now it’s an unmitigated
bore. I don’t mind your declaration: I
daresay it gives you a certain amount off
pleasure to make it. I quite understand
that you adore me; but (if you don’t mind)
I’d rather you didn’t keep on saying so.. . .
Juno : Oh, I can’t believe that the voice
of love has ever thoroughly awakened you.
Mrs. Lunn: No, it sends me to sleep.
It’s no use. Mr. Juno: I’m hopelessly re-
spectable: the Jenkinses always were. Don’t
you realise that unless most women w’ere
like that, the world couldn’t go on as it
does?
Then, of course, the husbands and the
wives meet each other, and calmly discuss
the situation with the usual Shavian bril-
liance, and they all go comfortably into
dinner. A delightful bit of fooling, with
Shaw’s hatred of the shams of cbnvention
lighting it as the arc light outside the
darkened lounge lights the faces of his
characters.
A*
Lady Gregory’s New Comedies (Putnam.
per Dymock’s Library, Sydney) are inter
esting contributions to the Irish drama. In
each of these five brief comedies there is that
beautiful speech made familiar to us by the
author, Yeats, Synge, and the others of the
Irish renaissance. Even the chimney sweep
in The Bogie Men can say: “What signifies
chimneys? We’ll go up in them till we’ll
take a view of the Seven Stars! It is out
beyond the hills of Burren I wdll cast my
eye, till I see the three gates of Heaven!”
And when Delia in Darner’s Gold wants the
miser’s gold to buy herself a guinea-hen, she
finds poetry in poultry: “I am no way
greedy, I would ask neither food nor bite,
I would not begrudge turning Sunday into
Friday if I could but get my hearrs desire.
Such a thing now as a guinea-hen would
be bringing fashion to the door, throwing
it a handful of yellow meal, and it in its
speckled plumage giving out its foreign
call!” And Delia has higher flights of
ambition: “What’s goats and what is
guinea-hens? Did you ever see yoked
horses in a coach, their skin shining out
like shells, rising their steps in tune the
same as a patrol of police!” But
McDonough’s skill nvith the pipes lifts the
Irish mind to splendid hyperbole: “He is a
great one to squeeze the pipes surely....
His father was better again, they do be
saying.... I heard tell, he to throw the
pipes up on top of the rafters, they would
go sounding out tunes of themselves....
There is no person can be safe from him
the time he will put his ‘come hither’ upon
them It’s likely he’d play a notion
into the skulls of the pampootied boys from
Aran, they to be kings of France or of
Germany, till they’d lift their heads to the
clouds and go knocking all before them. And
the police it is likely laughing with them-
selves, as if listening to the talk of the
blackbird would be perched upon a blessed
bush.” Then McDonough’s wail for his
dead wife is the purest of poetry: “Is it
'that you are gone from me, Catherine, you
that were the blossom of the branch!....
I to bring you travelling you were the best
traveller, and the best that ever faced the
western blast, and the waves of it blowing
from you the shawl! Ito be sore in the
heart with walking you would make a smile
of a laugh.... What way did it fail me to
see the withering of the branches of every
bush, as it is certain they withered the
time laughter died with your laugh?”
Jt
Lady Gregory says that she has been
forced to write comedy because it was
wanted for the Irish theatre, “to put on at
the end of the verse play's.” But she thinks
tragedy is easier. “Tragedy shows humanity
in the grip of circumstance, of fate, of what
our people call ‘the thing will happen,’ ‘the
Woman in the Stars that does all.’ ..
Well, you put your ac-tor in the grip of this
woman. Once in the grip you know what
the end must be. You may let your hero
kick or struggle, but he is in the claws all
the time, it is a mere question as to how
nearly you will let him escape, and when
you will allow the pounce. Fate itself is
the protagonist, your actor cannot carry
much character, it is out of place. You do
not want to know the character of a
wrestler you see trying his strength at a
show.”
An interesting theory, but disputable.
For it is the character of your hero that
decides whether your play is to be comedy
or tragedy, whether he is to win or lose the
victory in his struggle with fate. Where
would the tragedy of Hamlet be if he
were not Hamlet?
The Bogie Men and Coats are but farcical
comedy one-acters. Darner’s Gold is a
character cqmedy in two acts. The Full
Moon is finer stuff. In this one-act play
the atmosphere of eeriness is thrillingly
adumbrated and embodied by the influence
of the full moon on a eroup of characters
intensely superstitious. A harmless dog
runs down tLe street, and through the sug-
gestions of a mad woman one after another
of the “sane” characters believes that he
has been bitten by a mad dog. and shows
all the signs of his madness. In the end
the sanest of them all is accused and bound
by his superstitious friends, but by counter-
feiting madness this character. Hyacinth
Halvev, who has appeared in an earlier play
of Lady Gregory, makes his escape. And
the theme of McDonough’s Wife is enough
to make any play. McDonough, the great
Irish piper, returns to his home to find his
wife dead, and no one to “wake” her. or
carry her to burial. McDonough pipes the
whole village in to her funeral.
Bengali Poems
On the seashore of endless worlds children
meet. The infinite sky is motionless over-
head and the restless ivater is boisterous.
On the seashore of endless worlds the chil-
dren meet with shouts and dances.
They build their houses with sand and
they play with empty shells. With withered
leaves they weave their boats and smilingly
float them on the vast deep. Children have
their play on the seashore of worlds.
They know not how to swim , they know
not hov: to cast nets. Pearl fishers dive for
pearls, merchants sail in their ships, while
children gather the pebbles and scatter them
again. They seek not for hidden treasures,
they know - not how to cast nets.
The sea surges up with laughter, and vale
gleams the smile of the sea beach. Death-
dealing 'leaves sing meaningless ballads to
the children, even like a mother while rock-
ing her baby’s 4 cradle. The sea plays with
children, and pale gleams the smile of the
sea beach.
On the seashore of endless worlds chil-
dren meet. Tempest roams in the pathless
sky, ships get wrecked in the trackless
water, death is abroad and children play.
On the seashores of endless worlds is the
great meeting of children.
On the slope of the desolate river among
tall grasses I asked her, “ Maiden, where do
you go shading your lamp with your
mantle? My house is all dark and lone-
some —lend me your light!” She raised her
dark eyes for a moment and looked at my
face'through the dusk. “I have come to the
river,” she said, “to float my lamp on the
stream when the daylight wanes in the
west.” I stood alone among tall grasses
and watched the timid flame of her lamp
uselessly drifting in the tide.
In the silence of the gathering night I
asked her, “Maiden, your lights are all lit—
then where do »"»>»* go with your lamp? My
house is all dark and lonesome —lend me
your light.” She raised her dark eyes on
my face and stood for a moment doubtful,
“f have come,” she said at last, “to dedicate
my lamp to the sky.” I stood and watched
her light uselessly burning in the void.
In the moonless gloom of midnight I
asked her, “ Maiden , what is your quest hold-
ing the lamp near to your heart? My house
is all dark and me your
light.” She stopped for a minute and
thought and gazed at my face in the dark.
“I have brought my light,” she said, “to
join the carnival of lamps.” I stood and
watched her little lamp uselessly lost among
lights.
f
The time that my journey takes is long
and the way of it is long.
I came out on the chariot of the first
gleam of light, and pursued my voyage
through the wildernesses of worlds, leaving
my track on many a star and planet.
It is the most distant course that
nearest to thyself, and that training
the most intricate which leads to the L U
simplicity of a tune. utter
The traveller has to knock at ever,, «v
door to come to his own, and one <
wander through all the outer world * 1°
reach the innermost shrine at the end l °
My eyes strayed far and wide before r
shut them and said. “Here art thou!’’
The question and the cry, “Oh w he rP m
melt into tears of a thousand stream* *
deluge? the world with the flood of the assur
ance I ami’ sur '
I was not aware of the moment when i
first crossed the threshold of this life
What urns the power that made me ooen
out into this vast mystery like a bud in til
forest at midnight!
When in the morning / looked upon the
light I felt in a moment that I was n
stranger in this world, that the inscrutable
without name and form had taken me in iu
arms in the form of my own mother.
Eten so , in deeith the same unlcnowu will
appear as ever known to me. And because
I love this life, I know I shall love death ox
tv ell.
The child cries out when from the right
breast the mother takes it away, in the veru
next moment to find in the left one its con-
solation.
From “Gitanjali,” by Rabindranath
lagore (Macmillan).
“A whole people, a whole civilisation
immeasurably strange to us, seems to have
been taken up into this imagination; and
yet we are not moved because of its strange-
ness, but because we have met our own
image, as though we had walked in
Rossetti’s willow wood, or heard, perhaps
for the first time in literature, our voice as
in a dream.”
Thus W. R. Yeats, in his delicate intro-
duction to Gitanjali (Song Offerings) by the
Bengali poet. Rabindranath Tagore, a col-
lection of prose translations made by the
author from the original Bengali. And
indeed, in this brown poet Yeats has met
his soulmate. The same naive simplicity,
the same pellucid atmosphere of poetry, the
same quiet care of words, are found in this
Bengali poet. We learn that Tagore is the
most famous of Bengali poets: the Ben-
galis. call this the epoch of Rabindranath.
He is also a musician, and Ins songs are
sung from the west of India into Burmah
wherever Bengali is spoken. “He was
already famous at 19 when he wrote his
first novel; and plays, written when he was
but little older, are still played in Calcutta.”
He is also a saint. “Every morning at
three he sits immovable in contemplation,
and for two hours does not awake from his
reverie upon the nature of God.” In the
original these lyrics are said to be full of
subtlety of rhythm. of untranslatable
delicacies of color, of metrical invention.
This volume of 103 poems contains trans-
lations of “Song Offerings” from three of
his books of poetry. Somehow it seems to
us that it is a pity that not more of our
Australian poets are not saints; and if the
daily of _ motionless contemplation
from 3 a.m. to 5 a.m. can produce poems
such as these, our bards are cordially pre-
sented with the recipe.
There is only one competitor for the vacant
English Poet-Laureateship. What is wanted
is a poet who can be depended upon week
after week to produce his poem on passing
events: he must write poems short enough
and simple enough to be understood by his
employer: and he must be able, at a mo-
ment’s notice, to perpetrate a poem about
Any Old Thing. As will be seen by any
careful reader of our “Answers to Corres-
pondents” column, there is only one poet
in the Empire who fulfils all the conditions.


JL
ace
v <*■ i; •' ' &■**» . •* r * - o-n
luiiii—iiuwi gyg-* ii i «■ ll 'll
'race ful Wraps/ir fiven/rig Wear
1.
!ia
t> I'“S
m
a
cl
*
tfJgHS
fa/vor/s
'Low •
Prices
ss&o
\
ANTHONY HORDnPNS
Anthony Horderns’
Winter Fashion Book
is an authoritative guide
to the prevailing modes.
The illustrations faith-
fully depict selections
from the noteworthy
display in the Green
Room of Charming Re-
ception Dresses and
Evening Gowns, Rich
Fur Sets and Smart
Ready-to-wear Costumes,
Blouses and Skirts.
Fashions for Young
Australia are also shown,
as well as the New
Millinery, Seasonable
Footwear and Lingerie.
Write for a copy, post
free on request.
gmsmm
■pnnHHnRVR!
fxc/us/vo Dz/You YlYcjcYo Su/Ys
m
s.
ar
m
O. 6168. Stylish EVPIlill" ( out, of Chiffon finish Face Cloth, deep spade collar with wide
loose hem, new shape, very full sleeves, collar, revers and cuffs, finished Silk strappings, and
buttons to match. Colors: Sky, Biscuit, Old Rose, Tan, Pink and Cream 42/-
No. 8590. Effective Evening- Coat, Of soft Venetian Habit. Cloth, has full loose back,
and wide, set-in sleeves, collar, revers and cuffs finished strappings of Satin, and medallions of
Black Silk Cord, in Grey, Sky, Biscuit, Cardinal, Tan, Reseda, Stone and Cream 32/6
No. 6165. Evening' AVrap Coat, of fine Face Cloth, loosely cut, with semi-Kimono sleeves,
long revers of White Guipure Insertion, edged Paillette Silk to match. Colors: Sky, Biscuit,
Putty, Mauve, Rose Pink and Cream 42/-'
No. 16762. Graceful Evening Cloak, smartly cut from soft Face Cloth, with new
shape sleeves and large armholes, collar, long revers and cuffs, of soft Paillette Silk, and Silk
piping. Colors: Sky, Grey, Pink, Cherry and Cream 63/-
No. 81574. Coat and Skirt Costume, in fine Navy Coating Serge, trimmed back and
front, black Military braid, collar and revers relieved facings of either Tan, Saxe or pale Mauve
cloth, coat lined Silk Polonaise, finished patent leather belt; new shaped skirt /Q
No. 380. Coat and Skirt Costume, in the new Bedford Cord, high waist effect, new
Robespierre collar, coat lined Silk Polonaise; two-piece skirt with lapped seams and self
buttons; Navy, Cinnamon Brown, and Petrol Grey 00/6
No. 5092/1. — Smart Knitted Wool Coat and Skirt Costume, in Fawn and White
or Grey and White, fine stripes, the front, cuffs, collar and pockets of coat finished knitted
strappings of Fawn or Grey to match stripe, and buttons to correspond; four-piece skirt has
wide lapped seams j_
No. 1575. — Styish Coat and Skirt Costume, in Black or Navy fine Coating Serge, coat
has pointed shape crossover front, large collar and revers faced black Satin, lined through Grey
Silk Polonaise; skirt is three-piece, high waisted, with double seam in centre front.... 03/-
S^rG*rSt?%
(Tpffjo/y/forcJerpj'
N I
i
9 33/
S//5
• /
5 9
799
Top Quality at
Bottom Price
is the Golden Rule
at the
New Palace
Emporium
the Home of
ANTHONY
HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW
PRICES
acknowledged to be
the LOWEST IN
THE LAND.
Send for Illustrated
Price Lists, Post Free.
I raj hi or? < /£> r n &.Winfcr
' UtU \\m /S/S &
8341
f/538
213
9303
I j[n^ o{ Uord crn^^
No. 9331. Useful % -length Coat, in navy Habit Cloth, straight back; finished inset strap-
pings of Silk Military Braid 24/6
No. 799. Attractive % -lengtll Coat, of navy Habit Cloth, has sailor collar of self, inset
deep panel of black Satin, which also forms wide revere with self facings and rows of Russia
Braid 29/6
No. 59. Fashionable Full Length Coat, Of smart Blanket Fleece Tweed. Colors: Bronze,
Heather, Navy, Cinnamon, Grey and Reseda 42/-
No. 8115.—Stylish Black Cloth Coat, full length, large, deep, round collar and revers to
waist, smartly relieved wide and narrow Silk braids, fastens with handsome Satin and braid
ornament 34/6
No. 213.—Tailor-made Coat and Skirt Costume, of Block or Navy fine Coatin'.; Serge;
belt effect of folded Satin, Black Satin revers and cuffs, and small sailor collar worked in Gold,
Emerald, and Blue. Oriental Embroidery, lined through striped Satin; three-piece skirt 79/6
No. 1/538. —Stylish Coat and Skirt Costume, of Black and Grey narrow stripe Zibeline
Fleece Cloth, has collar of Black and fine White striped Ottoman Silk, Military Braid strappings
and bone buttons, coat lined through to match; well-cut four-piece skirt 75/-
No. 9309.-—Coat and Skirt Costume, Black Ottoman Silk collar and cuffs, relieved
narrow Emerald or Black Satin piping, lined Cream Twill Satin; new-cut skirt, in Black or
Navy fine Coating Serge 77/g
No. 8341. Coat and Skirt Costume, of Diagonal Whipcord, in Steel Grey and Brown;
coat relieved inserted slashings of Black Satin on double panel at back, revers and shaped
sections over hips, lined through Silk Polonaise to match ; two-piece, skirt, with wide lapped
seams 59/6
ANTHONY HORDERN &, SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace E-mporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


B.S.A
FITTINGS
BUILD THE PERFECT BICYCLE
Call and gee your local agent
to-day. Emphasise the fact that you
must have “ 8.5. A.” The perfect bicycle
is one built of B.S.A. Fittings—the bicycle
f which carries the well known marks of reliability
and excellence—THE THREE PILED RIFLES.
STRENGTH, LIGHTNESS AND SPEED
are three of the principal features of a bicycle built of
genuine B.S.A. Fittings.
WRITE NOW for FREE COPY
OF B.S.A. HANDBOOK
(Australasian Edition), it gives full
particulars o{ B.S.A. Fittings,
Eadie Coasters, Eadie Two-
Speeu s, etc.
D. Y.
RENNIE,
(Representing B S.A. Co. Ltd.
Australian Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
TtADCMUKS
\l/
A
B.S.A
TRAOt MARKS
A
B.S.A.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub. Free Wheel
on both gears, Back-pedalling and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop Tyres. As
ridden by FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
ANTHONY NORPCRN SONS LTD.,
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
a
QIWHASa
\s
U
111
rx:
ix
'•y i
\
7fi/j
VOUR customers get the goods for which
they pay. You should be as sure of
getting the money for the goods you sell.
Whether you do or not depends entiiely on the system you
use in conducting your business. The old wav was to
depend on memory and habit. With our new system, you
depend on machinery which enforces accuracy and stops
mistakes in your store. The National Cash Register will
systematize your business, so that you will be as sure of
getting all your profits as your customers are of getting
their goods. It will pay you to investigate.
CALL OR WRITE
The National Cash Register Co.
of Australasia Ltd.
335 PITT ST., SYDNEY
343 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE
281 MURRAY ST., PERTH
50 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
117 a RUNDLE ST., ADELAIDE
MACQUARIE ST., HOBART
WHY NOT?
Of course you Have an
OIL ENGINE!
If not, WHY NOT?
It’s a Handsome Business Proposition
V'
i
Providing you purchase a reliable Engine
to start with, you need never have a
moment’s worry.
THIS 15 WHERE
WE COME IN
Our “BIG CHIEF” OIL ENGINE is
simplicity itself, and fills a long-felt want
in the back-blocks of New South Wales-.
Being Hopper cooled, no trouble with
leaky tanks need be feared. Extended
Crank Shaft on either side enables you
to use two pulleys if required. A
“WIZARD” Magneto provides the neces-
sary spark.
WRITE DEPT. E for Special Descriptive Catalogue.
Remarkably Easy Terms. Positively Bedrock Prices.
NOT A PENNY
will ever be lost by the Lucky Purchaser of a
MARSHALL Steam Engine.
When other Engines, purchased at the same time, are quietly reposing
the scrap-heap, “The Marshall Still Keeps on Working." That s way
you cannot possibly make a loss. Marshall’s Steam Engines are ma ® .
last, and so they do. We have several Engines still working umi
have been in constant use over Fifty Years.
Light <& Heavy Pattern
Traction Engines.
Portables, 2 to 35 H.P .
Vertical & Horizontal
Stationary.
Vertical & Colonial Type
Boilers.
CATALOGUES FREE. DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
#==>
Very Easy Terms.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO. Limited
IGI Clarence Street, Sydney.
From “Jeames”: —
Alfred Austin, the late British poet laureate, was
the son of a well-to-do Leeds merchant. He went
to the Bar originally, but soon drifted into journal-
ism. Almost from the beginning he seems to have
aspired to be a poet, in much the same spirit as a
comedian often hankers to play tragedy. He was
one of the Standard’s leader-writers for many years,
and as a slashing assailant of Liberalism there were
few to surpass him. But as a poet he was banal.
It has been said of that confirmed cynic, Lord Salis-
bury, that he was never guilty of a bitterer action
than when he made Alfred Austin the Laureate.
With Swinburne, Edwin Arnold and Morris in the
field, the appointment was, of course, grotesque.
Swinburne was ruled out by reason of some of his
earlier verse, both erotic and political; but the other
two big men were aspirants. Punch published a
cartoon showing Austin, Arnold and Morris striving
after the bays—Austin, if I remember aright, in the
garb of a ballet-dancer. It so annoyed him that he
never spoke to Burnand, the then editor, again.
Austin was a great flower-grower, and did most of
his writing at his country home in Kent. “The
Garden That I Love” was about the most human
thing he ever achieved.
The Laureate’s official duties are to compose odes,
lyrics and epic poems in honor of the births of fresh
royalties, or the winning of battles by Britain’s war-
riors. Austin supplied a few works of the sort at
the beginning of his term, but they aroused such
derision that the authorities kindly but firmly re-
quested him to desist. However, the divine afflatus
doggedly refused to be quenched, and he continued,
from to time, to publish poems which elicited shrieks
of delight from England’s enemies. The Boer war
one about the “women and children” in Ladysmith
was appraised by loyalists and disloyalists alike as
the most deplorable thing of the sort that had been
done within the memory of man.
The Laureateship is not worth much even as a
sinecure. The remuneration is, or was, a cask of
sack and £5O per annum. Austin, like Pye, and, I
fancy, some other Laureates, compromised for a
small cash sum every year, in lieu of the sack —-a
horrible concoction which nobody drinks nowadays.
I see that Kipling is mentioned as a possible suc-
cessor. He would be an appropriate choice, as by
the law of averages Britain is now in for a run of
feeble bards. Up to Southey’s time the most hone-
less poet of the day always got the job. Kipling is
uproariously loyal and imperialistic, and his later
poems are as bad as anything of Cibber’s or Rowe’s
or even Nahum Tate’s.
If incompetence is not a prime essential, some of
the Australian verse-writers might have a look in.
Harry Lawson would be an interesting figure about
the Court. And then, speaking in a serious spirit,
there are David McKee Wright, and “Kodak,” and
A. H. Adams and others—all miles above the Austin
standard. The only trouble in the case of these
writers would be the exiguous nature of the stipend.
There has never been a Wages Board for Court
Poets in the United Kingdom. In fact, they haven’t
even got a union. Hence, possibly, the starvation
basis on which they are remunerated.
From a Maoriland cleric (and The
Bulletin has to take his word for it, hav-
ing no inside information of its own) :
All the ecclesiastical world now knows that H. W.
Cleary, the only man in “last, loneliest, loveliest”
Auckland who signs his name with a Roman cross, is
to be offered the placid Archbishooric of Adelaide
when the present occupant, Dr. O’Rcily, retires, which
is expected to be very soon. Of course, all along it
was intended by everyone (except Archbishop Red-
wood) to give Cleary the tiresome job of holding on
a mitre in the windy old town of Wellington. But
arch-orator Redwood has just persuaded the proper
poople to allow him to hand over his shiny shoes, his
buckles and his purple stockings to V.-G O’Shea.
Hence, Adelaide may expect soon to see the clean-cut,
slight, upright present Bishop of Auckland striding
along King William-street. Dr. Cleary is a man of
vast and deep reading, a gentleman, a hater and
destroyer of bigotrv wherever found. Also, he is a
real tiger for flinging round eoiscooal titles ; to-day
Auckland has three mons’gnori, two vicars-general,
four deans, one archpriest, one archdeacon and one
chancellor.
“Jeames”: Lord Charles Beresford take
his Toryism seriously. When he says i u tho
House, or elsewhere, that Radicals should
he boiled he means it. Most Tories don’t
Beresford’s latest feat, according to the
London papers, is to advocate a social bov
cott of all those who disagree with hin
politically; an internecine conflict between
Britain s leading party-givers, so to sneel
Said he bitterly the other day : peak '
We denounce the Radical leaders, and call th
traitors, but in private we retain friendly relaS
and associations with them, which are inconsisw
with sincere, genuine feeling. sistent
This shaft is probably launched nrimariln
at Winston Churchill, who has raked the
earnest, but somewhat wooden-headed old
seaman (or should one say politician?
Admiral Percy Scott has laid it down that
Beresford is no seaman) fore and aft Of
course the furious old man has no hone of
getting his way. If Conservatives began
cutting Radicals socially, English society
as at present constituted, would disintegrate
or bust. One of Churchill’s greatest friends
for example, is his cousin, the Duke of
Marlborough—a Tory of the bluest variety
Another intimate friend is E. E. Smith who
should lead the Conservative party in due
course. The Wimborne family is half Torv
and half Radical; and 20 * others might
readily be mentioned which are in a similar
position. It is just possible that Lord
Charles’s outburst was a mere political gag
so absurd does it seem on any sort of
scrutiny. This view is strengthened by the
fact that he was one of the guests asked bv
Lord Rothschild to Tring recently to meet
the arch-Radical Churchill himself.
About an old genius and his work:
I should think this was unprecedented in literature
—the Australian Journal, with this June number
has begun the publication of Marcus Clarke’s “His
Natural Life” for the fourth time, with Tom Car-
rington’s original illustrations. In the book form
Clarke cut down the story by about one-third, on
Charles Gavan Duffy's advice. The original includes
a description of the Eureka Stockade rebellion, Lalor
being wrought into that part of the yarn. Publisher
Massina told me of the awful trouble he had to drag
the M S. from Clarke, who wrote merely from hand
to mouth, giving the printer nothing ahead. Mas-
sina sivore he would never employ another genius—
and he never did. Clarke's expenses having been paid
to Port Arthur, to get the right “color,” he seemed
to think that ended the business. So harassed was
Massina that he had thoughts of stopping the serial.
But when it was finished there were clamors to have
it over again : so Massina published it the second
time. When Clarke died, it was run through for the
third time. Now a new generation gets the fourth
boiling.
There being quite a number of Freetraders
in the sporting community, The Bulletin
has had a dream of a Freetrade Melbourne
Cup. There would be no tariff to prevent
the young and inexperienced horse being
smothered by its better established compe-
titor. The idea of putting extra weight (or
duty) on one horse (or worker) to bring
him to a level with another horse (or toiler)
would be absolutely abandoned. The blessed
idea of free competition would be strictly
adhered to. And then sport would boom, or
perish, or something. Most probably it
would perish. Joe Cook should look into
this matter. Wherever else the curse of
Protection rages let our Melbourne Cup be
based on pure Freetrade principles.
[James Edmond, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.)


General Electric Co. U.S.A.
ELECTRIC MINE HOISTS
m
m
mm*
apw*
Double Drum Hoist of 90001 b. capacity, with General Electric Co. U.S.A.
112-H.P. Alternating Current Motor.
The General EleClric Co. U.S.A. have many
motors operating on haulage sets and hoists
throughout Australia, and is prepared to furnish
the Complete EleCtrical Equipment for all classes
of Hoist work.
This Equipment includes Alternating Current
and Direct Current Motors, Drum type, or
Automatic Magnetic Contractor Control Ap-
paratus, Solenoid Brakes, Limit Switches,
Solenoid Operated Emergency Valves, etc.
Why not permit us to go
into your Haulage Problems ?
WRITE FOR BULLETIN 4939.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC Co.
217 Clarence Street, Sydney. Corner Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne.
~,,_
i
WTNKt av\rt\
|Ho Wottvet sYmVd be wtt\out ft \* sew’d teo>uest
I
ui
v
f
~
m
A progressiva dietary adapted to the growing digestive powers.
Milk Food No. 1
From birth to 3 months.
Milk Food No. 2
From 3 to 7 months.
Malted Food No. 3
From 7 months upwards.
gh
15-17 Market Street, Sydney
“Things done by halves are never
done right.” “Golcryst,” the new aper-
ient made from Epsom Salts, Senna,
Sarsaparilla, Dandelion, Liquorice and
Linger, “gets to business” thoroughly.
There are no half measures about
“Golcryst.” Yet there is no griping
nor weakening. “Golcryst” has no equal
as a Blood purifying and Rheumatism
curing medicine.
Everywhere 3d., 6d. and Is. sample
posted free by Proprietors,
ROCKE, TOM PS ITT & CO.,
Melbourne.
“THE LONE HAND ” for Good Stories and Bright Articles. Price 6d.
The American Ring Pulveriser
is designed for
Crushing and pulverising limestone, lime, coke, ore,
brickbats, sewer pipe, terracotta, glass, quartz, phos-
phate rock, sandstone, gravel, tile crockery, flint,
manganese ore, oyster shells, stove lining, shale and
all other refractory materials.
Made in Six Sizes.
The various sizes are made with a view of meeting
the requirements of the small, medium and large
consumer.
Crushing and Pulverising to Fines.
Those materials of a refradory nature can be fed to
the machine in 3in. to 6in. cubes and smaller.
g
hfg
The several degrees of fines are secured by installing Grate Bars containing interstices of various widths. A measured
degree of fines is secured by running the materials over a given mesh screen, returning the rejections to the Pulveriser. The
coarser the grind the greater the tonnage capacity, while the finer the grind the smaller the tonnage capacity. The more
dry the material is made, the faster and finer the machine will pulverise.
Strength and Durability.
Careful observations, based upon adtual experience, have resulted in adding to and making extremely strong all parts
of the machine. Extended research and grinding tests year in and year out have brought about the use of Manganese Steel,
a metal that will best resist abrasion and withstand the greatest impafiL
We shall be pleased to show you these in operation in Sydney, Send for Catalogue.
_ Australian Representatives: ——— ...
HAES & EGGERS LTD.,
163 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“THR CHILDREN’S FOOD.”
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
THe Most Accurate ‘22 Calibre
REPEATING RIFLE IN THE WORLD!
STEVENS
VISIBLE LOADING No. 70.
hfg
You see the cartridge go in the chamber.
You know when this rifle is loaded.
Will handle indiscriminately, without ad-
justment, fifteen -22 Short * twelve - 22
Long, and twelve -22 Long Rifle R.F.
cartridges.
Your dealer can quote attractive prices.
Weight, 4Mb.
Insist on Stevens.
Write for Rifle and Telescope catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL,
Australian Representative for J. Stevens Arms & Tool Co.,
Box 86, Q.P.0., Adelaide, South Australia. [3
STRENGTH & ACCURACY are the main features in a
Pieper Bayard Gun.
hf
gh
Made so
perfectly, they
give absolute
satisfaction.
'•
Write to W. A. Cox, G.P.O. Box 873, Sydney, for Pieper Booklets, post free.
\\
Simply
Turn a Screw
and Pull—
that’s all that’s neces-
sary to detach the bar-
rel of a Remington-UMC
Repeating Rifle.
It’s just as easy to clean
—it’s all done from the
breech and you can look
through the barrel and see
that it’s clean.
You’ll like this thor-
oughly tested, accurate,
reliable rifle made by expert
gunsmiths—a century’s ex-
perience is builded into it.
It is hamme.less, has solid breech—no possibility of
accidental discharge or blow backs.
Shoot Remington-UMC Lesmok 22’s—they made the world’s
highest score and most perfect group. Remington-UMC
Repeating Rifles and Shot Guns. Ammunition for
all makes of fire arms. For sale everywhere.
Remington Arms—Union Metallic Cartridge Co.
(M. Hartley Company, Export Agent) 299-301 Broadway, New York, U. S. A.
THIS HALF-MAGAZINE
WINCHESTER Repeating Rifle, 65|
This is one of the latest Models of Winchester Half-magazine centre
fire repeaters—and is just the finest all-round rifle for every Bushman.
It is a rifle you can rely on —good for small game, also Kangaroos,
Wallabies, or for killing Cattle and Hogs on the Farm.
No.
B U
50
fgh
Its magazine carries seven 25/20, .32, .38,
or .44 Calibre cartridges, can be loaded’
m a moment—the ejection of one cartridge
bringing the other into position.
Its barrel is made of the finest tested Steel, Octagon shape—B-sided—this bein°-
an advantage over the round barrel, the glare being lessened, allowing the eve
to glance along a flat plane instead of a round surface. Is 20 or 24 inches lon’°-
just as you choose, fitted with sporting fore and rear sight, and a plain trigger.
The Stock is of well-seasoned Walnut, fitted with steel protector. The net weight
of rifle is from to 71b. It can also be had with a round barrel for «*> /«
Postage on either Rifle, 3/- extra. v*s/o.
Ask us to send you our Gun Catalogue, illustrating and giving prices of others
T. C. BEIRNE & CO.,
THE VALLEY,
BRISBANE.
Another Selection from the A.P. Rifle Lists
fg
Our last two advts. in this paper only mentioned the lowest
priced riiles. This week we outline a few of the Higher Grades. In
our Catalogue you can select from over 150 different models and
calibres. Get it to-day—free by mentioning this paper.
32/6
3 51-
37/6
42/6
42/6
B.S.A. .22 Bolt Action Rifle, 24in. best steel, round, heavy barrel, adjustable back sight to
200 yards, adjustable fore sight, length over all 41in., weight 51b. ; 32/6.
Stevens’ Visible Loading Repeater, .22 short, long or long rifle, 20in. round barrel, slide
fore end operated, bead front and elevating rear sights, length over all 35in., weight 441 b.;
35/-.
No. 1175 Marlin, .22 cal., slide operated, take-down rifle, 23in. barrel, solid top and side
ejection, magazine holds 15 short, 12 long or 11 long rifle cartridges, length, 39}in.,
weight about 41b. ; 37/6. The whole of this rifle can be taken apart without tools.
Remington Hammerless Repeater, round barrel, special front and rear sights, solid breech,
side ejection, safety catch, take-down, slide operated, magazine holds 15 short, 12 long or
11 long rifle, without adjustment. You can clean it from the breech; 42/6.
Winchester .22 Cal. Take-Down Rifle, 20in. round barrel, bright front and adjustable rear
sights, length 35jin., weight 51b., magazine handles all lengths .22 cal. cartridges; 42/6.
ALCOCR (SL PIERCE, 3188 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball-
Bearing: Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful links in America,
arid by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Riohardeon Ball-Bearing: Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chioago. U.S. A.
RICHARDSON"
CHICAGO
THE BEST STORIES written in Australia appear in TIiK
LONE HAND each month. Price Sixpence.
hfg
A Picture of
Good Health!
Mrs. ADDINGTON, of Argent Street, Broken
Hill, writes her daughter was cured of St. I itus s
Dance, and is NOW IN SPLENDID HEALTH
through CLEMENTS TONIC.
“Argent Street, North Broken Hill,
“10th October, 1911.
“CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
“Some years ago my daughter, in alighting from
a tram, had a severe fall. It gave her a great
shock, and so affected her nervous system tnat
eventually St. Vitus’s Dance ensued. She became
so bad that it was impossible to hold a knue or
fork, and going out of the house was impossible.
“I was persuaded to try CLEMENTS TONIC. She gradually improved, ana
soon regained her normal condition. Nearly two years have elapsed SING g
COMPLETE RECOVERY, and all that time she has enjoyed the best of heaitn.
“I have great faith in CLEMENTS TONIC, and always recommend it.
can make what use you wish of this. . nnivrTtPJ "
“(Signed) (Mrs.) R. A. ADDING IDA.
CLEMENTS TONIC is Tour MEDICINE
The Rev. JOHN HOSKING, D.D., Minister of
the Congregational Church, Fitzroy, Melbourne,
writes :
“I was completely run down and suffered by
nervous prostration, being troubled with Insomnia
and nervous headaches.
“After taking one bottle I slept soundly, and soon
got stronger. One bottle put me right, and was
worth its weight in gold. I recommend this medi-
cine very strongly. You may use this as you think
fit.
“(Signed) JOHN HOSKING, D.D.”
This Testimony should convince anyone suffering
from INSOMNIA or LOSS OF SLEEP and
NERVOUS BREAKDOWN, of the value of this
curative medicine.
GET IT, AND GET WELL.
All Chemists and Stores sell it everywhere.
#


75 Years I
with Coughs I
We have had Seventy-five
years’ experience with
Cherry Pectoral. This
us have great confidence
tor coughs, colds, bronchitis,
weak throats, and weak
Auer’s
i
#
i
SOLD
FOR 75 YEARS
We want you to have confidence
in this medicine alco. You cer-
tainly will, if only you give it a
good trial. Ask your doctor
what. confidence he has in it.
Sold in three sizes.
Hard colds and coughs often
upset the whole system. The
liver becomes sluggish and you
have constipation, indigestion,
biliousness. Just remember
Ayer’s Pills are liver pills, act
directly on the liver. Dose, only
one pill at bedtime.
Prepared by DR. J.C. AYER & CO.,
Dowell. Mass., X 7. S. A.
PREPAID TO YOUR PORT.
hgf
Ten Days’ Trial allowed. Direct from
Factory. Highest-grade British MEAD
Coventry Flyers
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS.
Defiance Puncture-Resisting or Dunlop
Tyres, Coasters, Variable-Speed Gears, Flyet
or Brook’s Saddles, etc.
modeljs
£3.10 to £9
Tyres and accessories at half usual prices.
Write at once, using sufficient postage*
for Free Art Catalogue and Special
Offer oil sample machine. Agents wanted.
MEAD
CYCLE COMPANY.
Dept A 282 LIVERPOOL.
AGENT for MEAD CYCLES
VAL. D. COLE, Book Arcade, Melbourne.
LARGE STOCKS ON HAND. ALL MODELS
hg
£4O A MONTH
loperating theNEWMODEL COMBIN-
ATION CAMERA. It takes and instant-
ly develops eleven entirely dif-
ferent styles of pictures, includ-
ing two sizes and four styles
PAPER POST CARDS,
six styles of Tintype Pictures,
and Brooch Pictures. Requires
no experience whatever. Every-
body wants pictures. Five hundred
„ _per cent, profit. THE WORLD’S
BIGGEST MONEY-MAKER. Small investment se-
cures complete outfit, including Camera, Tripod, and mate-
rial for 150 pictures. Make money *he first day no matter where
you live or what you are doing. t Detailed information free.
Including letters from prosperous operators everywhere.
L. LASCELLE, 627 W. 43d St., Dept. 772, New York
ELEY
CARTRIDGES
—essential
to good sport.
Good cartridges m
lot always suffice
nsure good sport, but
good sport is out of the
question without them.
ELEY Cartridges do all that the best
cartridges can do in this direction, with a
trustworthiness which has won for them
a measure of success greater probably
than any other cartridges in the world.
Two ‘Eley Loaded.' Cartridges:
Elcy ‘Acme’
A bright orangeg inch
deep-shell Cartridge
loaded with Eley
i (42-gr.) Smokeless.
Elcy ‘Eloid’
AlightmaroonCartridge.
Loaded withEley(33 gr.)
Smokeless. Light recoil;
absolutely waterproof.
The above, and other Eley
Specialities, may be ob-
tained from all Gunmakers
and A inmunition Dealers.
E ley Bro*., Ld.. London
Enir.
mm
/
m
1 /
MQSS
MvVMUwn
msm
BOTTLE AFTER BOTTLE-
of " Bonnington’s Irish Moss” goes forth on its
mission—that of curing Coughs and Colds. You
can rely on each one doing its duty faithfully.
IT IS A REAL CURE FOR
COUCHS, COLDS, BRONCHITIS, CROUP,
WHOOPINC COUCH, SORE THROAT,
SORE LUNGS, LOSS OF VOICE, INFLUENZA
DIFFICULTY OF BREATHINC.
and all these kindred ailments of the throat and lungs.
Do not be misled by worthless imitations. Take only—
BONNINGTON’S IRISH MOSS
OF 40 YEARS FAME.
RUNKENNESS Cured.
DAny lady can cure the most violent drunkard—secretly—at home. GOLDEN
SPECIFIC has no odor or taste, and Can be taken by the most delicate person
of either sex. It totally eradicates all craving for stimulants, creating a last-
ing antipathy to alcohol in a few weeks. Many cases are cured in a few days
with this treatment. . . Send 2d. stamp for FREE SAMPLE and full particulars.
THE GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO.. DEPT. 4, MARKET STREET. SYDNEY. N.S.W.
«•
&
B ( 1414 >
iTHE MAGICAL CHANGE !i
Thin, Flat-
Ch e $ t e d
Women!
If you have been sparse-bosomed and hollow-cheeked
all your life, or if your measurements are not what
they should be, don’t vOu think it is time you re-
belled ?
While you are worrying day after day over your
appearance, thousands of women —once like you—taking advantage
of the opDortunity science has offered, are now enjoying perfect
bust development and robust womanhood.
DR. FALLIERE’S “FLESH-FOOD” has developed to normal
women who never had the semblance of a bust, and has restored to
vigorous vitality women who lost the figure that was once their pride.
It will do the same for you. If three or four inches more bust measure-
ment will perfect your figure, “Flesh-Food” will give them to you. If 12 or
13 pounds added will correct your weight, you can depend on “Flesh-Food.” If
even more inches or weight is required, “Flesh-Food” offers you salvation. It is
harmless and reliable, pleasant and always beneficial. Many cases gain five pounds
a week and several inches in a month. Guarantee given in cases accepted. Thou-
sands endorse it. Send 2d. stamp for free sample and our free illustrated book
and scores of testimonials. Watworth, Falllere Ass n., 1103 Ash Street, Sydney.
e
r
MR. G. VECSEY.
LET ME RID YOU
OF YOUR KILLING
VARICOSE VEINS.
If you suffer from Varicose Veins or Ulcers, or both, I believe that I can com-
pletely cure you. I have treated hundreds of terrible cases with the utmost suc-
cess, and I know that but very few cases are really incurable when properly treated
without operations, and by my method, which has been tested and successfully
proved in hundreds of instances.
Very few doctors tell you they can cure this trouble. They prefer to ignore
it. Doctors could not cure me. I cured myself. I then cured my friends, and
then made hundreds of new friends by curing people who had suffered in some
cases for a quarter of a century. Hence I believe I can cure you.
If >you would like to feel your legs well, strong and supple again, send for
full details of this wonderfully efficacious home treatment.
ADVICE FREE FREE BOOK DIAGNOSIS FREE
I want you to learn all about my method. Send 2d. stamp for Free Book, giving full parti-
culars. AVritten Diagnosis or Consultation FREE. Call if convenient. (1424)
THE VECSEY VARIX-ARIUM, 3103 ASH STREET, SYDNEY.
NEW SEAM SANITARY CAN
FOR FOOD
PRODUCTS.
The Entire Top Open.
m
,
id
Sealed without Heat, Bolder or Objectionable Fluxes.
|f OUR NEW AUTOMATIC DOUBLE SEAMER will
readily handle over 2000 ends hourly, and may be operated
by a boy. Our machines are made for all kinds and sizes
of cans. Will stand both retort and bath processing.
Cheap, more attractive, wholesome and better. Send for
our Catalogue.
The machine meeting with the greatest success in Aus-
tralia, South Africa and America.
If AMS INCLINABLE POWER PRESSES, for stamping
all kinds of metal work. They are not surpassed by any-
thing in the market.
We Furnish Complete Outfits for Making These Cans.
Max Ams Machine Co.
Mt. Vernon, New York, U.S.A.
EUROPEAN AGENCY: C. CUELPA dl L., Corso Dante, 41, Torino, Italy.
STOP
SMOKING!
MOST MEN would cure themselves of the
Tobacco habit if they knew they could
do so easily and without discomfort.
It takes but ten minutes for tobacco to
change the beats of the heart. To keep it up
is to tempt death by Heart Disease, Nervous
Collapse, Tobacco Cancer, and Stomach,
Liver or Kidney Disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless, vege-
table remedy that will make the user of
tobacco in any form absolutely abandon the
habit for lt not only destroys the crav-
ing, the desire, the appetite for tobacco, but
restores to health the entire nervous system,
and aids nature in entirely eliminating from
the system the Nicotine Poison.
Yoii Can Try It FREE.
Send 2d. Stamp, and we will post you a
FREE SAMPLE, also our FREE BOOKLET
.—“The Tobacco Habit and Its Consequences.”
Mr. Frank Ford (lilackall P. 0., Q’land)
■writes: “l was a heavy smoker for 6i> years,
but after taking your treatment for IJ, days 1
gave the pipe up for good, and never think of
smoking now.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G, 107 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
[2-
PAGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUBHION APPLIANCE
Never mind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is. in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Cun vou ask for more?
PERFECT EASE. COMFORT, and SECURITY.
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women <fc children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic.
The'Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries-
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
in qm sine* 1506.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
$. GREEN. 210, Lambeth Road. London, Eng.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Dream of Silence.
I reck not of the purple maid.
Nor her whose eyes of bine
The flaxen lashes coldly shade
o’er cheeks of peachen hue;
My taste in girls, I am afraid,
Is heterodox and l new.
Give me the one whose eyes are green,
Whose scarlet lips are hot.
Whose hair is yellow with the sheen
Of gold I have not got—•
A girl who ought to be a queen.
But, happily, is not.
I want one somewhat like a saint,
Whose measured speech is such
She wears the lilies of restraint,
And never says too much.
I want a presence subtle, faint,
That yet is good to touch.
Our introduction need not be
Particularly long,
For such a girl would take to me
As housemaids take to song,
Or little oysterlings agree
With pepper on a prong.
When I have known this dimpled maid
One short half-hour or so,
Together down some sylvan glade
In silence we shall go,
Where kindly vegetables shade
The grassy turf below.
And I shall lie upon the sward
Beneath a pleasant tree,
My head, because the ground is hard,
Upon her silken knee,
As idle as an ancient bard
Who loafed in Arcady.
And there, I think, that dreams will come,
Such dreams as" Sappho knew,
Of love that sets the bees a-hum
And paints the peacock blue,
And in the end gives preachers some
Delightful jobs to do.
I think that I shall see again
The simple vision clear
Of angry persons who got slain
For sweethearts that were dear,
Or tangled up in mazes vain
Of mingled love and beer.
And her green eyes shall shine above.
And her red lips shall glow.
The while her little tender glove
Shall wander to and fro
About my rumpled hair, and love
Shall hid old Time go slow.
She shall be happy as a bird,
And peaceful as a log,
And we shall never say a word
To stir the cheerful fog
Of fancies, pleasant or absurd,
But go the whole sweet hog.
The whole sweet hog of pleasant dreams
Beneath a quiet tree,
While all the world of that which seems
Creeps softly over me,
Like furry surf that whitely streams
Out of a sleepy sea.
We shall not reck of pleasures flown
In all our simple days,
The inner world shall be our own
Far from the talking ways—
I, lying indolently prone.
She, upright in her stays.
N.B.W.
GEORGE STREET.
Sydney.
Lady of Splendor, circled round with hills.
About whose fragrant feet the sunlight
spills,
Set between sea and amorous amber sky,
Queen of the Countless Loves, your love
am I.
Am I not yours, as you, O Queen, are
mine?
The bearded rocks and jutting, age-old tree,
The brown walls washed with light, the sun-
set-wine
That floods across the sky’s fine napery,
The blinding, wrinkled water shot with
skiffs.
The high, white villa-walls and ruddy eaves
That hang upon their little clovered cliffs,
Hidden, like half-seen birds, among the
leaves.
I think that some day, while I overpass
One of these drowsy headlands summer -
hushed.
I’ll find, one windless noon, within the grass.
The print of some god’s body lightly-
crushed ;
And I shall stoop above the perfect thing.
And touch the yet-warm spot where he had
lain
A moment since ; and watch, all-marvelling.
The bruised blades bending slowly up again.
There is a place I know of, where the shade
And sun that cross and merge from rock and
tree
To rich-grassed deeps beneath, have met and
made
Flecked gloom and shadow-pools and mys-
tery—
Where one may glimpse (stealing with toe-
tip tread
No louder than his heart’s hushed diastole),
Among the shifting sun-spots diamonded,
White-bodied Oreads slip from bole to bole.
Yonder, a strip of steel, the seaway lies,
And there, the level drone of hurried men
Hums from the hidden water-lanes, where
plies
The world’s wayfaring back and forth again;
Yet here are clean slopes tumbled from the
sky,
And sheer rocks—weeping vines that, strand
on strand,
Swing down to touch the little bays that lie
Like jewelled fingers laid upon the land.
Lady, whose satraps are the shining hills,
About whose gloried feet the sunlight spills,
Palaced in palm and roofed with amber sky,
Of countless loves your latest love am I.
N.S.W.
J. ALEX ALLAN.


BEDROOM SUITES AT MARCUS CLARK S
A SUPERB SUITE
at £26/10/-
mnr
m
lluiiHiJ
nC &C°l'
m
•r"
THE “PSYCHE” SUITE.
SOLID OAK, 3 pieces. Comprising: sft. Wardrobe, with large door, full-
sized bevelled mirror; 1 large and 1 small drawer. 1 Dressing Table,
bevelled swing mirror, 2 small and 1 long drawer, 2 jewel drawers and
shelf under mirror. 1 Washstand, 3ft. 6in., large cupboard and two
drawers.
MARCUS CLARK & CO. LTD.,
The Expert House
Furnishers,
CENTRAL SQUARE, OPPOSITE RAILWAY, SYDNEY.
THe Famous BOOMERANG Mouth Organ
Sweet, Strong, Loud, Perfect and Tuneful.
BOOMERANG.
“BOOMERANG GRAND,” large size 6/6, small 3/6
“ PROFESSIONAL,” large size 4/-, small size 2/-
“ BOOMERANG,” large size 2/6, small size 1/6.
“POCKET BOOMERANG,” l/», post free.
“ ARCH-BELL BOOMERANG,” with 40 reeds, 2 bells,
price 5/6 ; 80 ids., 2 bells, 10/- ; 160 rds., 4 bells, 17/6.
TRADE SUPPLIED.
CAUTION—Mouth Organ Artists
and Learners are respectfully cau-
tioned against unscrupulous Shop-
keepers, who try to “ talk in ” the
customer by offering him inferior
goods, which are only a weak imita-
tion of the “ BOOMERANG,” the
Monarch of Mouth Organs. If your
man has not a “ BOOMERANG ”
Mouth Organ—the one you came for
—walk straight out; don’t accept
the spurious substitute with the
shopkeeper’s assertion “ just as
good,” and get the “ BOOMER-
ANG ” from another store.
h
fgh
g
hfg
ALBERT & SON, 137-9 King Street, Sydney.
The World-wide Whiskey.'
Burke’s ***
A Whiskey of unique value,
mellow, light and digestive.
E. & J. BURKE, Ltd.
(Paid-up Capital, £1,100,000.
Established 1849), are by
far the largest Shippers of
Bottled Whiskey from Dublin.
THE NOBLE ART OF
SELF-DEFENCE
>
Learn how to box. Be able to defend
yourself. Your easiest and most satis-
factory method is to learn from GEOFF
MORIARTY.
I have prepared a special course for
instruction by post, so that you can learn in
your own home. Pat Doran is an example
of the efficiency of my teaching.
It costs you nothing to obtain particulars.
Write by the next mail. You are assured
personal tuition, whether I teach it by post
or if you call at my studios.
Also write for Prospectus, dealing on how
to become strong and healthy, reducing
weight, and becoming a good wrestler.
Geoff Moriarty,
Physical Culture Studios,
195 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE
(Between Swanston and Russell Streets).
ENJOY RAINY WEATHER
by investing in a
PERDRIAU
MACINTOSH.
They are guaranteed absolutely waterproof,
and unaffected by extremes of climate.
No matter how hard it is raining, or how
long you are out in it, you will find it impos-
sible 'to get wet, if wearing one of our
Macintoshes.
FOR MEN 35 M C arriaqe
FOR WOMEN ..30/-/ paid.
Rend for a cony of our No. 30 Illustrated
List, giving full particulars of all wet
weather clothing.
Samples of materials post free on request.
RUBBER CO. LTD.,
270 George Street, Sydney.
And at MELBOURNE.
JSkjiN
*
mm
&
SHI-NOLEUM
V.\A->
X' '
Nothing' Else
When you ask your Storekeeper for a tin
of Shi-Nolcum, be firm and take nothing
else, as you may be sure that an imitation is
not offered for your benefit.
Shi-N oleum has a fine
reputation as the best polish for
Linoleums and Furniture, it is so
easy to use that it enables the busy
housekeeper to do her work in
half the usual time.
L Sold in every State in
m the Commonwealth.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound: containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop's ” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price. 21s.
Beauty’s Favourite,
The article wHicK excels all others
in improving the beauty of the skin
is naturally and deservedly beauty’s
favourite. This has been the
acknowledged and honoured
position held by Pears* Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and has
maintained that position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by the
possession of those special emollient
properties which soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to the
skin. No other soap possesses
these qualities in such a pre*
eminent degree as
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Vol. 34. —No. 1740.
THURSDAY. JUNE 19. 1913.
Prioh (Jo.
RULE BRITANNIA—UP TO DATE.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Mac-
leop, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets.
Mosman, for The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214
George Street, Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business, 1381 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(in Advance, Only.)
Per Annum . . . . ..£l6O
Half-yearly .. .. .. 0 13 6
Quarterly.. .. .. .. 0 7 0
If// sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings Sterling you can hace The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques. Drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Uusiness Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some
care as to methods of address.
Uusiness letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements. etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thihg to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, Tim Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The perron may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice,
Insufficiently stamped letter; arc liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the form
of. Political, Sociul or other Articles, Verse. Short
Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Australian sub-
jects, and not exceeding two columns in length, or,
say, SOOO words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs.
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed, ll'hen MS. is forwarded with-
out stamps for return it will be understood that the
copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Personal
applica!ions for return of MS. cannot receive atten-
tion. The Bulletin desires, further, those sending
MS. to distinctly understand that it is not respon-
sible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying .to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash, of
sufficient merit and interest and adapted for direct
reproduction, or any interesting photograph illus-
trative of a current event, will be paid for same on
acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea, but
unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotcli, Lndgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central Netvs Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —-Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., W Hastings Street,
Vancouver. 8.C.; Jepson Bros.. Nanaimo, 8.C.; S. G.
llarlin, 345 Granville Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. —Childs News Agency, corner Fifth and D
Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Golden Gate News Co., 789
Market Street. San Francisco: Quaker News Co..
Philadelphia. U.S.A. ; Queen City News Co., Randolph
and Clark Streets. Chicago. U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said. Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Redder Street, Ilong
Kong.
Ceylon. — lF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Agents’ Special Notice,
Tiie Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria. West Australia, Queensland. Tas-
mania and New Zealand; and on account of Messrs.
Atkinson and Co., and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide —at
3/6 per doz. nett.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size, 6?tn.
x liin.. and gelatine transparencies, will be forwarded
on application. Larger metal plates can be supplied if
desired.
Postage Bates.
Single Copies Tus Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper):—throughout the Commonwealth, New Zea-
land, Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands. lOoz. id.; United Kingdom. All Sea
Route, llioz. Id. Only one newspaper should be en-
closed in each packet — otherwise, Boz. Id., and Sloz.
to 10oz., Zid.; lOoz. io IZoz. Sd.; elsewhere, hoz. Id.,
and id. each additional Zoz.
THURSDAY, JUNE 19, 1913.
THE AWKWARD POSITION OF
JOSEPH COOK.
The final election returns were not to hand
Avhen this paper went to press, but, appar-
ently, Liberalism has a majority of one in
the House of Representatives, and the Refer-
enda questions have been negatived, as it
-were, by the skin of their teeth. The
tragedy of Joseph Cook’s position, as Prime
Minister, is to be found chiefly in the latter
circumstance. He is, amongst other un-
pleasantnesses, in the situation of a man
who, having opposed an increase in salary
in a certain job, finds, to his astonishment,
that he has been pitchforked into the billet
himself. Assuming that a Liberal Adminis-
tration manages to adhere to office for the
next three years, it should acquire a reputa-
tation for ‘whole-souled inertness that will
amaze the world. It may be taken for
granted, on his statements during the late
elections, that Cook will not seek to put
any of his old principles into execution. For
all‘ practical purposes they may be regarded
as dead and buried. No Dreadnoughts wall
be offered to Britain. The naval policy
of “the disloyalists” vull be persevered with
There will be no casing off in the_ matter of
“conscription.” Freetrade, which Hob-
house lias termed “the heart of Liberalism,”
and which every great Liberal from Mill
and Gladstone, down to Asquith and
Mobley and Haldane, has regarded hitherto
as a first essential of the creed, is to be
turned down ; and conscientious Freetraders,
like A. G. Huie, will be requested hence-
forth, figuratively speaking, to go away and
drown themselves, if they intrude at the
Liberal headquarters in Sydney, or else-
where. On the other hand, there is no dan-
ger of anything being done in the direction
of rectifying tariff anomalies. In a fiscal
sense, the party has taken a dope, the effect
of which is guaranteed not to wear off for
36 months. Various prominent Liberals
have given their assurance, during the last
month or so, that the party will not abolish
the progressive land tax ; or exterminate the
Commonwealth Bank ; or do away with the
Baby Bonus; or abandon the Northern Ter-
ritory ; or drop the construction of the Trans-
continental Railway; or block the institu-
tion of the Inter-State Commission ; or re-
call G. H. Reid ; or jettison the White Aus-
tralia policy; or in any way attack any such
manifestations of Socialism as Old Age
Pensions. Certainly a few daring characters
have threatened to engineer the destruction
of the “Gag Act” —the inoffensive, futile, old
Gag Act which has gagged nobody. But
this is too cautious a programme, take it for
all in all, to satisfy a country like Australia.
The times call for something rather less
slumbrous.
There are about two dozen Federal mea-
sures which most intelligent citizens, Liberal
and Labor alike, are simply yearning for. A
Companies Act, for example, and uniform
Banking legislation: an effective Seamen’s
Compensation Act, and an Insurance Act
of the sort that is now in operation in the
United Kingdom. Liberalism, as a result of
its Referenda victory, will be unable to pro-
vide one of them. Take the question of an
Insurance Act —a measure to protect workers
against want during invalidity or unemploy-
ment. The Cook party has officially an-
nounced its intention of legislating in this
direction. Now the essence of such an Act,
wherever it exists, is a system of compul-
sory contributions on the part of employer
or employee, or both. A non-contributory
Insurance Act —meaning a system under
which the Treasury pays the whole of the
premiums—would be unthinkable in any
community that hadn’t declared definitely
for Socialism. Also, the cost would be un-
thinkable. So it may be taken as read that
Cook’s Insurance Bill, if it ever material-
ises, will insist on the employees, if not the
employers, adding their contributions to those
of the Treasury. But the High Court has
decided that, owing to the presence of the
Trade and Commerce clause in the Constitu-
tion, the Australian Parliament has no
power to legislate in regard to the internal
trade and commerce of any individual State.
In other words, Parliament is impotent to
apply an Insurance Act to a purely State
business. If, under a Federal Insurance
Act, the employees at (say) Lassetter’s, in
Sydney, were desired to make weekly pay-
ments to balance the contributions made by
the Commonwealth, those of them who hap-
pened to favor thriftlessness, or who, for
some other reason, disapproved of semi-
Government Insurance, would be in a posi-
tion to decline, and so assist to wrneck the
Act. Well over 90 per cent, of workers in
Australia are employed in purely State con-
cerns —that is to say, in concerns which the-
High Court has declared to be out of the-
ambit of the Federal Parliament. Any
number of them might decline to be bound
by the Insurance Act, -which the Cook
party talks of introducing, and as it is ner-
fectly certain that many thousands of them
would decline to be so bound, the House is
unlikely to waste its time over any measure
of the sort.
It may be said —in fact, the betting is a.
million to one that presently it will be said
—that the Liberal party is not opposed to
what has been called vaguely “reasonable
amendments in the Constitution” designed
to empower the Australian Parliament to
pass and enforce uniform Companies’ legis-
lation, and so on. Towards the finish of the
late election there was a perfect welter of
blither on the subject of reasonable amend-
ments. Nobody took the risk of formulating
a set of “reasonable amendments,” but all
sorts of people who wished to appear
tolerant and catholic-minded, while getting
there just the same in an anti-Referenda
sense, got into the habit of deploring
Labor’s “mad grab at power,” and following
up that complaint with the remark that if
the grab had been slightly less frantic and
comprehensive they would have approved of
it. And they mostly drifted from this
thoughtful and patriotic attitude into a
scandalised denunciation of the idea of hand-
ing over to Federal control “the affairs of
every little tobacconist’s shop, of every
hotel, of every store, of every hawker’s cart,
of every fruit-barrow and of every act of
buying or selling goods, or carrying them.”
(The words in inverted commas are those of
J. H. Carruthers, and they are typical off
the chief argument that was advanced in
opposition to the Referenda.) The point
which all these thoughtful patriots either
missed or ignored was that without giving
the Australian Parliament power over little
tobacconists’ shops and small stores and
hawkers’ carts it will be impossible to em-
power it to legislate in regard to big State
trading companies or banks. The crux off
the whole matter is the phrase “among the
States.” Eliminate those three words from
the Constitution, and the States’ control of
their internal trade and commerce auto-
matically goes by the board. The Aus-
tralian Parliament will be enabled there-
after to pass Insurance, and Companies, and
Seamen’s Compensation Acts and the New
Protection, and the Trade Marks Bill, and
so forth, and be as sure as any human in-
stitution can be of anything that these
measures will not be invalidated bv the High
Court. Incidentally, it will be able to inter-
fere fractiously with the bottle-vending
business; and it will be within its power
to fix the price of beer at 2s. per pint; and
ruin every tobacconist and fruit-barrow
proprietor in the Commonwealth. If
Joseph Cook comes to the conclusion, after
a year or so in office, that, the Australian
Parliament is not likely.* at anv time, to
start harassing petty traders —if. in other
words, he admits the wild improbability off
Australia ever electing a completelv mad
collection of Representatives and Senators
—he will propose, on his own behalf, the
constitutional amendment behind which his
party affected last month to see the most
hideous menaces lurking. In the other event
he will be able to do nothing whatever of
any legislative value. His entire job will
consist in sitting down and being a sturdy
Liberal at £2lOO per annum; a sufficiently
pleasant occupation for him. but ’one that
will arouse no enthusiasm whatever amongst,
the general body of electors.
[John Bede Dalley, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
DEPOPULATED NEW SOUTH WALES.
The State Government of N.S.W. has issued
plans and specifications for a heap of new
railways, which are to be built when it is
possible to borrow the money. Incidentally,
Minister Griffith has, or had a few days
ago, some new patent device for borrowing
the money. The new railways are to “open
up the neglected interior,” to “develop the
country,” to “tap great wheat areas,” to
“populate the inland districts,” and to do
all the other beautiful things of which the
State has heard for such a long, long time.
Of course these lines are all to lead to Syd-
ney, regardless of the fact that, in some
cases, the needless distances arising out of
the fact that the goods must be dragged
away from the port that is almost at the
farmer’s door, and dragged to the port that
is right over the rim of the horizon, are so
tremendous that the wheat will be to a great
.extent eaten up in transit expenses. Also,
they are all to lead to Sydney, regardless of
the fact that the lines thereabouts are already
so badly congested through the struggle to
drag everything to the edge of Darling Har-
bor that this year there are more millions
•of bushels of wheat lost, stranded, bogged,
delayed and bailed up at country stations
than ever before. For the length of a very
respectable lifetime N.S.W. has been build-
ing railways with borrowed money, on the
.Sydney congestion plan, to develop and
CONGESTION.
Despite the great increase in the population
of NS. W. between the years 1901 and 1911,
,and despite the expenditure of £38,000,000 of
loan money and the construction of 1000 miles
if new railroad , the area colored black con-
tained fewer people in 1911 than it did in iqoj.
settle the interior. During the coming finan-
cial year business is to be pursued with re-
newed vigor, according to the old principles,
unless Cohen objects and stops the sup-
plies. A
Some people actually begin to wonder if
the result is worth the effort. There is
plainly nothing to be gained by borrowing
an illimitable wilderness of money to settle
the interior, unless the interior is really
settled. If it isn’t settled then there must
be something wrong with the scheme, and if
a great part of it is becoming more unsettled
than it was many years ago, the scheme is
liable to fall into disrepute, not to say con-
tempt. N.S.W. consists of 141 counties,
and, between the years 3891 and 1901 the
State raised on its lOU a trifle of
£15,000.000, almost entirely for the promo-
tion of wheat and cows and inhabitants
in the inland country. This was a
period of economy and prudence as
compared with the raging financial in-
sanity of to-day, yet £15,000,000 was a fail-
amount of new debt to be incurred by such
a mere handful of people as the folk of the
Ma State. And in these 10 strenuous years
43 out of the 141 counties of N.S.W. lost
population. In other words, despite all the
talk of land settlement, much more than one-
third of the State was going back to an
aboriginal condition. Some counties lost
half their people. Some went even further,
and lost two-thirds. The period between
1891 and 3903 wasn’t a specially dry sea-
son, nor was it a time of severe agricultural
•depression. And the slump in popula-
tion wasn’t confined to the remote
■and un-railroaded West. It spread
right down to the fertile Coast coun-
try and over the pleasant tablelands. In the
rich South and the «rich North, where the
only drawback was, and’ still is, remoteness
from the octopus of Sydney, and lack of
facilities for doing a foreign trade through
ports which are much nearer than Sydney,
the curse of depopulation settled down hard
on the community.
* * * .* --'
The curse kept growing. As already
mentioned, there were 43 N.S.W. counties,
out of 141, which lost population between
1891 and 3901. There w-ere 46 out of 141
which lost population continuously between
1891 and 1913. And there were 53, out of
141, representing 129,000 square miles out of
310,000. that lost population between 1901
and 3911. Yet in the 10 vears between 3901
and 3931. no less than £38,000,000 of loan
money was expended on the development of
the innards of N.S.W. Also, almost 3000
miles of new railway were built. And, inci-
dentally, after all this development, the
amount of profit which a train earned on the
average for every mile run dropped from 2s.
10. id. to 2s. 9Jd. If the districts which i„„
people, and the districts which made L ° S
hmtesimal gain of people are balaJa
against each other it is possible to marK
an area covering 300 counties, out of the 34
which make up N.S.W., representing; !
five-sixths of the area of the State L?*
truthfully that, between 3901 and idli
region, in the aggregate, became l es L ?! s
habited than it was before. And this h ’
pened, despite the fact that the total pZ
lation of the State increased very Ur!!
After all the loans and all the ra£
building, it is poor showing. y
The section of N.S.W. that might be writ-
ten off as a bad debt, on the records of the in
years between last census and the ont before
consisted of these counties. They forni '
long and dreary list, but they may as well
be enumerated :
(1) Argyle, (2) Auckland, (3) Bathurst
Beresford, (5) Blaxland, (6) Bligh (7\ n ’ 9)
dara, (8) Boyd, (9) Barrona, (10) Buccleuch n°n
Baradine, (12) Benarba, (13) Burnett, <u\ p! 1 *
belego, (15) Cowley, (16) Cowper, (17) Caira (m
Culgoa, (19) Cadell, (20) Clyde, (21) Cla’remt
(22) Cunningham, (23) Dampier, (21) DaS’
(25) Dowling, (26) Drake, (27) Denham (S
Dudley, (29) Denison, (30) Durham, pm
lyn, (32) Ewenmar, (33) Finch, (34) Forbes i>t\
Fitzgerald, (36) Franklin, (37) Famell, (38)’
ders, (39) Georgiana, (40) Gordon, (ii) GuikW
booka, (42) Gresham, (43) Gregory, (44) Goulburn
(45) Hawes, (46) Hunter, (47) Hardinge (m
Irrara, (49) Inglis, (50) King, (51) Kennedy
(52) Kilfera, (53) Killara, (54) Landsborough
(55) Livingstone, (56) Lincoln, (57) Leichhardt’
(58) Murchison. (59) Manaro. (60) Menindie (61)
Mootwingee, (62) Mossgiel, (63) Mooramba’ (fin
Murray, (65) Napier, (66) Narran, (67) Xj c h n l
son, (68) Narromine, (69) Oxley, (70) Poole (7n
Perry, (72) Phillip, (73) Rankin, (74) Selwyn
(75) Sandon, (76) Sturt, (77) St. Vincent (781
Stapylton, (79) Tandora, (80) Taila, (81)’ Tara
(82) Thoulcanna, (£3) Townsend, (84) Ton»o-
-woko, (85) Ulara, (86) Vernon, (87) Wakool (88)
Wallace, (89) Windeyer, (90) White, (91) Waljeere
(92) Waradjery, (93) Wellesley, (94) Woore (95)
Wentworth, (96) Werunda, (97) Yantara (98)
Y'anda, (99) Young, (100) Yungnulgra.
Anyone with a passion for detail may mark
this region off on the map, and consider
what a magnificent proportion of the old
Cornstalk State became in the aggregate
emptier and thinner
and more deserted in-
side of 10 years, des-
pite the alleged general
prosperity, the mag-
nificent increase of
revenue, good seasons,
high prices, the ex-
pendi.ture of
£38,000,000 of loan
money, and the build-
ing of 1000 miles of
new railway “to open
up the country and de-
velop its magnificent
natural resources.”
* * *
The man who drags
produce out of the
ground has two pos-
sible markets. One is
the local city, but un-
fortunately, by reason
of the congestion in-
iquity, N.S.W. is only
allowed to have one
big city, and as
N.S.W. is about six
times the size of Eng-
land, that big city is
so far away from many of the producers
that the value of their vegetables is
eaten up before the green stuff gets to its
destination. The idea of cultivating inland
manufacturing towns, like Birmingham or
Sheffield in England; or encouraging local
ports like Bristol, Cardiff. Glasgow, Barrow,
Greenock. Liverpool, Hull, Dublin, Belfast,
Cork, Leith or Aberdeen in the British
Isles, is abhorrent to the old Cabbage Tree
Mob of the Ma State metropolis. The other
outlet for the man who drags produce out
of the earth is foreign export, but if he lsnt
allowed access to his nearest port which
may be Adelaide, Port Pirie, Portland. Two-
fold Bay, Jervis Bay, Port Stephens or
Brisbane —and is compelled to trade via the
bloated metropolis however inaccessible it
may be —well, so far as a lot'of him is con-
cerned long distances and costly charges and
the dry rot of delay arising out of too much
Congestion devour his vegetables before the}
get fairly started for the European marse.
There may possibly be sqifie reason, apar
from the Congestion curse' and the One nig
City curse, why. in N.S.W** despite go
seasons, high prices, lavish borrowing, nug
railway extensions, and illimitable gaoi
about promoting the settlement of the ini
country, it is possible to mark off uve-si
of the map of the. State as a region .which-
in the agvrearate. had less population in
than in 3901. and to add that : a goodl pan
of it had less population in 3931 than
1891. It may be possible., but no one m
exolained wherein the possibility lie ®; *
before the crazy McGowen-Holman Cover
ment spends another tower of bo
millions it should try to find out t .
of the trouble. For there is little
tion in borrowing many millions ana •
depopulation and Congestion with the
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The New Protection and the New
Foreign-Trade.
There are persons here and there
begin to have a suspicion that. pven ts.
the Australian manufacturer, at ai
is concerned, an excessive fuss is j us i
about the increased cost of hyng.
now a Board is sitting, with its rf
on the vexed question. Quite a (be
witnesses estimate that since u p
general price of being alive a* ® 8
fully 35 per cent. That see * special
favorite estimate, though in 5 deal
lines the amount is said to be gtatis-
more. On the other hand, -• • I qoo i the
tician Trivett alleges tha^, s l“ c the Dianu-
average rate of wages paid b• . turer is
facturers of his State (the ma colß .
the only man who has to supp . be go t
plete returns that the wage bd » wom en,
down to a fine point), counting , }
bo.vs, girls flapper*, louts ..
has risen from £S3 lls. ea. pei $
£lOO 7s. 2d. That is an increase <^ traliaD
per cent., so the man who m * , pays
goods with Australian materials,
wages to Australian trades-


apparently done his share to make things
easy for the people. Whether importers'and
shopkeepers and banks and insurance offices
have boosted their wage rates up 20 per eeht.
is another matter. There is a very strong
suspicion that they haven’t even dreamed of
doing so. One boot-dealer who appeared
before the Board last week said that the cost
of hoofgear had recently gone up no less
than 30 per cent., which is quite an excep-
tional rise. Of that extra amount he
reckoned that over 20 per cent, went in extra
cost of leather and other materials, and
rather less than 10 per cent, in extra wages
to the bootmaker. On this calculation the
manufacturer, though he probably, owing to
high prices, requires a larger capital with
which to finance his business, has got none
of the increase. The boot-making workman
has got some of it, and the primary pro-
ducers who supply the bullock hide which is
the basis of boots have secured most of i[.
The manufacturer has quite a lot of out-
standing merits. As already mentioned, he
uses Australian materials and pays wages
to Australian toilers, and his toilers, unlike
those of many other business folk, arc
mostly good unionists and consistent sup-
porters of the Labor ticket on election day.
Above all things, the manufacturer doesn’t'
send money out of the country to pay for
foreign goods, and thus drain the local gold
resources till a harried Ministry, in order to
prevent the community being cleaned out of
coin, rushes to the London market for
another £3.000.000 loan, and thus leaves
another £3,000.000 for the baby to pay. and
adds another £120,000 a year in the shape
of interest to the gold export to make extra
trouble in the future. He is really, on the
average, quite a decent sort of fellow com-
pared with, say. the banker, or trader, or
importer ; but when he is suspected of doing
his employee out of 2d. all the country hears
of it because the Trades Hall takes the
matter up and fills the air with dust and
fragments of argument. Meanwhile some
other people who are of much less use to
Australia can do their employees out of 55.,
and the world hears nothing about it, be-
cause the employees aren’t unionists and the
Trades Hall isn’t appealed to. Labor should
consider this aspect of the case very hard
when it gets its next chance to do a whole
hog amendment of the tariff. So far, it has
declared that it couldn’t give the Australian
manufacturer any better chance to manufac-
ture until it was able, under its New Protec-
tion scheme, to make sure that the employee
would get a fair share of the new profits. Yet
the evidence is fairly clear that trades-union-
ism has been strong enough to secure for the
manufacturer’s employee a constantly in-
creasing share of the profits even with affairs
on the present basis. And, meanwhile, the
importer, who brings in sweated labor and
colored labor goods, and drains the country
of money to pay for them, has been allowed
every facility for a stupendous increase of
his business without any stipulation that he
will share the extra profits with his em-
ployees. There has been a heap of talk about
the New Protection. Has any member of the
Fisher Ministry thought of mentioning the
need for a New Foreign-trade?
[James Edmond. The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
Victimising.
The latest strike of workers at the Vic.
State coal mine should hasten a final settle-
ment of the question as to whether Trades
Unionism recognises or denies the em-
ployer’s right to discharge a unionist for
breaking the contract under which he was
employed. Two men in the Wonthaggi
mine were suspended during the general
manager’s absence for “ceasing work before
the proper time,” whereupon 700 struck
work for the purpose of enforcing the re-
instatement of those two in their billets.
The general manager, on his return to the
scene of trouble, confirmed the act of sus-
pension by dismissing the two men, so the
700 others continued to strike, and 200 more
threatened to join them in idleness. The
900 men complained that the dismissal of
the two was “victimisation,” due to their
having been found smoking in their own
time. The general manager, on the other
hand, talked of “coercion” by the men, and
stated that the output of coal at the mine
had lately decreased 300 tons a day. although
the same number of hands as before
were employed and coal-cutting machines
had been introduced, which were consider-
ably more effective than the old pick. But
it matters nothing to the argument re those
two men whether the miners as a body had
been diminishing their labors or doing their
best. The output of the Wonthaggi mine
will be a matter for discussion in the next
working agreement, which has to be fixed
up before the end of this month. The ques-
tion of a manager’s right to discharge any
workers for committing a breach of the
regulations in any industry is the question
which Trades Unionism has raised so much
dust about of late. The term “victimise”
has been shouted on behalf of more workers
than this alleged pair of shirkers at the Vic.
State coal mine. It implies the new claim
of Unionism to discover a sinister reason
for what the boss asserts to be fair dealing.
It is one of the most misused terms in the
language. Every lazy or insubordinate
schoolboy complains that the masters have
a “derry” on him. Every unsatisfactory
.clerk in an office reckons himself the victim
of somebody’s “spite” when he gets the run.
Every bad actor who is told of his badness
In The Bulletin can give personal reasons
for the animosity of a critic who doesn’t
know him from a crow when he is off the
■sitap'e. To say that the officer who sus-
pended a couple of miners for knocking off
work before the proper time was victimising
them for enjoying a legitimate smoke, and
that the manager approved of the victimisa-
tion, is to charge the bosses with being con-
temptibly foolish persons who make trouble'
)by their sheer cussedness. To admit that
they doubtless thought they were doing a
fair thing by their job, which is the job of
insisting on the fulfilment of the miners’
working contract, would be to admit that the
hasty - strike was an unpardonable act.
Therefore the men don’t admit it. The doc-
trine that unionists can do no wrong except
by endangering the lives of other unionists,
or by working unduly fast, is the doctrine
whereof the complaint of “victimising” is a
recent development. The men never suspect
themselves of victimising an official whose
discharge they demand, but they always find
him guilty of victimising the odd worker or
two whom he wants to discharge. And they
give the boss the option of accepting their
vefdict or putting up with a strike. In this
Wonthaggi case the workers struck before
the head boss had been appealed to. They
denied the management the right to “sack”
anybody without their approval, and in all
industries unionism is doing likewise. The
disputed question of authority is ripe for
settlement.
State Rights versus Imperialism.
It was remarked in this paper more than
two years ago that the American Beef Trust
would only come to Australia with the
object of cornering the British meat supply.
To an institution which thinks in tens of
millions sterling and which has been accus-
tomed for years to arbitrarily fix the selling
price of meat for all America, the patronage
of the handful of people that inhabits these
shores can mean little. But the United
Kingdom is a different proposition alto-
gether. That is a market which is well
worth, exploiting. The Beef Trust has been
established more or less impregnably in
Argentina now, during close on a decade.
The British Government has regarded this
fact with growing nervousness for some time
past. Only last week, for example, the local
daily papers printed this cable message from
London: —
Mr. J. M. Robertson, Parliamentary Secretary to
the Board of Trade, in reply to a question in the
House of Commons last night as to whether any
action had been taken in regard to the operations
of the American Beef Trust in South America in
order to safeguard the British meat supply, said
that the Government was aware that apprehension
had been caused among the British firms engaged in
the Argentine trade, but he understood that the
Argentine Government was considering the situation.
Britain, he added, would view with satisfaction
any steps Argentina might take to secure unre-
stricted trade.
When it is remembered that the Beef Trust
has been particularly careful always to do
nothing in the way of extortion, or what-
not, that might exasperate the Argentinos
—on the principle that it is foolish to quarrel
with one’s bread and butter —it will be under-
stood that Britain’s chances of inducing the
Argentine Government to do anything more
drastic than “consider the situation” are
remote. The only great meat-producing
country in’ the world, besides the United
States and Argentina is, of course. Aus-
tralia. At present, small as its output is,
comparatively speaking, it acts as a very
effective buckler against the Beef Trust’s
efforts to corner the British beef supply. The
Trust is unable to fix the selling price of
meat in London, aS it does in Chicago, by
rea&cin of the fact that at any moment a
shipment .of Australian mutton or beef may
be put on the market. With the removal
of this possibility the Trust’s only difficulty,
aS" regards dictating to Britain what price it
shall pay for one of its staple articles of
diet, must disappear. The local Liberal
party lays claim to a sort of option on the
Imperialistic spirit in the Commonwealth.
It is its custom, more especially at election
times, to hint darkly that all who are out-
side the Liberal fold are “disloyalists.” The
arrival of the U.S. Beef Trust in Queensland
affords it a priceless opportunity to show
w’hether its Imperial protestations are hot
air or otherwise. That Queensland has no
intention of ousting the Trust is quite
obvious. And if Queensland did oust the
Trust it would simply move on to some com-
plaisant State like Tasmania and get busy
there. The business of dealing with this
concern—“in order to safeguard the British
meat supply,” as the Parliamentary Secre-
tary to the Board of Trade put it last week
—is essentially the affair of the National
Government. Sacrifices will need to be
made, of course ; and soon, if the Trust is
to be assailed before it has grown so vast as
to be as impervious to attack here as it is
in its country of origin. The first of them
is what a Sydney Telegraph writer termed
the other day “the right of each State to
control its own industries.” A question that
Liberalism will be driven to ask itself
shortly may be put in this form: “Is it
better for the Empire that the right of each
State to control its own industries should be
retained, or that the right of each Briton to
pay a reasonable price for his meat should be
sacrificed?” He would be a queer sort of
Imperialist who decided to put State rights
before the question of saving about three-
fourths of the inhabitants of the United
Kingdom from blackmail.
[John Bede Dalley, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
The Fool-Farmer and His Wheat.
The Vic. Royal Commission, appointed by
the late Bent or the deceased Pharaoh, to
report on what is known as F.A.Q. (fail-
average quality) wheat and the handling
thereof, has at last handed in a report, in
which it deliberately advocates the cultiva-
tion of more friendly relations with
that pestiferous beast, State Socialism,
and further advises the fool farmer
to vote “Yes” next time he gets the
chance. As to the setting up of the B’.A.Q.
standard, the Commission simply sits
amazed at the folly of the farmer in suffering
it. This standard is fixed each season by
the Cprn Trade Sectional Committee of the
local Chamber of Commerce, an arbitrarily
chosen section of a purely self-elected body,
whose interests as wheat buyers necessarily
clash with those of the farmers as wheat
sellers. A Wheat Standard Committee,
legislatively- appointed, is recommended. The
Commission further remarks that “the
farmers now know that they scarcely get a
fair deal along the long line of the wheat’s
progress to its final destination,” wherefore
it recommends (1) The handling of wheat
in bulk; (2) the organisation of an Inspec-
tion and Warehouse department; (3) a
permanent standard of grading; (4) a
grain survey board; (5) a uniform system
of contracts for the sale of wheat and the
regulation by license and bonds of all dealers
in grain; (6) the erection of country ele-
vators as advised by the Railways
Department, and of terminal elevators at
Williamstown, Geelong and Portland; and
(7) the establishment of a Grain Exchange.
The Commission of six included two Labor-
ites, and they seem to have had much influ-
ence ; but do the fool-farmers expect to get
any relief from a State Parliament like that
of Victoria? They listened to the mendacious
tale of the Argus about the Rural Workers’
Log—and voted “No.” They thought of the
man who does much of their work and is
threatening to ask for 40s. a week and
found—and voted “No.” But they forgot
all about the man who sits two or three
hours daily in a fire-lit, carpeted, cushioned
office and fixes the F.A.Q. standard—and
then buys and sells their wheat on that
standard, and makes his living by doing so.
If they didn’t forget they would vote “Yes”
every time.
[F. O. Jones, Elgar-road, Burwood, Victoria.]
For weeks prior to every election the Argus
and similar prints tell the old tale that,
owing to Labor organisation, the party’s
supporters vote solidly for the ticket, and
would do so even if a Quong was one of the
selected candidates, whereas the “Liberal”
vote is directed only by conscience and
brains. These yarns are considerably dis-
counted by the Senate figures for Victoria,
now practically complete. There is a dif-
ference of 8000 between the votes polled for
the highest Labcfite (Russell) and the
lowest (McKissock), whereas the difference
in the totals of the corresponding Fusion
candidates is only 4000. Yet (a) Renwick,
a Freetrader, is alleged to have split the
“Liberal” vote; (6) Mauger, a red-hot Pro-
tectionist and “extremist,” split the vote
some more, and (c) McColl, the highest
Fusion scorer, undoubtedly obtained a great
number of Yellow Pup votes from Labor
supporters, not that the latter loved Labor
less, but feared Rome more. Having regard
to these things, the gap between the total
of McColl, the first, and Mauger, the last
of the Fusion candidates, must have been
unusually large had not “Liberals” sunk
their principles in regard to Mauger on the
one hand and Renwick on the other, and
voted blindly for the men selected by the
Fusion caucus. The figures therefore show
that individual judgment was exercised to a
greater extent by the allegedly-bound sup-
porters of Labor than by the allegedly-free
“Liberals.” The same condition of affairs
is revealed in the Ma State, where there is
a difference of only 8000 votes between the
head and tail of the “Liberal” trio, whereas
16,000 separate the first and last of the
Labor three. Still these facts will not pre-
vent the Tory press blithering anent Labor’s
superior organisation, and its habit of vot-
ing by machinery, whenever there is a
democratic victory to be explained away.
[Albert John Owen, 129 Grey-street, East Mel-
bourne. ]
One day last week Labor Premier Scaddan
of Westralia got all the applause that was
coming to him when a meeting of Laborites
proposed to hang or drown or burn him in
effigy. The effigy being seized by the police
the gathering had to be content with a mock
trial, and a verdict that the Premier should
be put in a lunatic asylum. The cause of
the row was Scaddan’s alleged failure to
provide work for the unemployed. It would
be interesting to know exactly how much is
expected of the hard-worked Premier. West-
ralia has toiled more enthusiastically than
most States to provide land for the people
to settle on, and cheap money to help them
when they are settled, but the crowd which
made the recent fuss at Perth was not an
agricultural collection, and land didn’t in-
terest it. Successive Westralian Ministx-ies
have borrowed to the last gasp in order to
build public works, which help to keep the
people employed, but there is a point at
which even the last gasp stops. The gold-
fields are dying, but Scaddan isn’t God to
make gold, and he can’t be expected to be at
the salary. As for private employment in
manufactures, no country can both impure
its goods and make them locally. And if
Labor insists on filling its Federal Parlia-
mentary party with fiscal atheists or tariff-
sinkers, who devote themselves to doing the
dirty work of the foreign importer and help
to flood the country with foreign materials,
it can’t expect to get wages locally
for making these same materials. That is a
matter over which Scaddan, as a State
Premier, has no more control than any other
elector. One way and another it looks as if
that meeting of Westralian unemployed
might much more logically have hanged
itself in effigy. The one great needless
curse that is coming home to roost in the
fowl-yard of Labor is the curse of burying
the fiscal issue. When work is deliberately
sent abroad to the extent of some £76,000,000
per annum, what is the use of complaining
that the work has gone abroad and is con-
sequently not at home?
[James Edmond, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
♦
It was another case of taking the line of
least resistance when Prendergast, the
somnolent man under whose leadership the
V ictorian State Labor party never gets
within sight of hope or gunshot of office, sent
a notice to England that there is no room
in Murray’s State for more bottle-makers.
Australia makes a few of its own beer and
pickle receptacles, but not nearly enough to
supply its requirements. It imports the bal-
ance—a very big balance —because the tariff
isn’t high enough to hold the scale even
between the well-paid Australian bottle-
maker and the ill-paid English one. And
when money to pay for imported bottles and
things of the sort becomes scarce in Aus-
tralia this casual country floats a big, casual
loan in England. In this matter, as in other
matters of the kind, there are two courses:
open to. the Australian. One is to re-adjust:
the tariff so that the local bottle will have'
the advantage over the foreign article; to>
stop importing bottles ; to stop floating dis-
astrous loans and heaping up ruinous debts:
to pay for imported bottles; to start new
local industries; and to import bottle arti-
sans mot goods, but men—who will pay
taxes in Australia, and spend their wages ini
Australia, and help to defend Australia, and!
assist to fill up its empty spaces, and do»
their share in carrying the burden of itsr
debts. The other device is to warn bottle-
makers off the premises on the grounds that
Australia is a failure, and is content to im-
port and borrow and drift. The first idea
involves hard work in the way of improving;
the tariff, and establishing new factories,,
and re-organising the Bottle-makers’ Union*
which, incidentally, will mean so many more
votes for Labor on election day. The second
idea is one that any fat and lazy and un-
patriotic loafer is equal to. It is merely a
matter of sitting down hard and letting the
situation drift. And Prendergast is a great
drifter.
[James Edmond, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
The howls of the Tory press against the gag
clause in the Electoral Act of the Common-
wealth are still loud in the land, particularly
in New South Wales and Queensland. Be-
fore (and since) the Federal elections cam-
paign commenced, it was protested by these
literary dervishes that the signing of news-
paper articles was an invention of that habi-
tation of devils, the Labor Caucus, to stifle:
exposure of its wickedness, falsity and!
menace to a community which was hunger-
ing for information on these matters. The
Tory press of New South Wales decided that
the suffering community would have to go
unsatisfied to its doom. On the other hand,
the Queensland section of the Liberal organs
resolved to make an attempt to save the
country, even at the sacrifice of the mysteri-
ous “We.” And this is how it all worked
out (anyhow, up to time of writing) :
The Senate:
N.S.W. .. .. Labor, 0 “Liberal,” 3
Q- ■ • • • Labor, 3 “Liberal,” 0
The Representatives:
N.S.W. . . . . Labor, 12 “Liberal,” 15
Q- • • • • Labor, 7 “Liberal,” 3
The Referenda:
N.S.W. .. .. “No” carried six times
Q- • • • • • • “Yes” carried six times
Instead of repealing the law which the press
supporters of that harassed politician,
Joseph Cook, say has “gagged” them (and
about the only policy Joseph has so far
breathed into Australia’s listening ear is the
wiping out of the signed article “outrage”),
it would seem a profitable move on Joseph’s
part to enlarge its scope, so that no political
articles, signed or unsigned, should be printed
and published during any future election.
[John Barr, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
♦
“0.K.”: llenniker Heaton is back in
Australia, swelling with the new idea of
penny-a-word cables. Up to now Henniker is
temporarily immortal as the parent of penny
postage between Britain and Australia, but:
the size of his immortality will be vastly
increased if sixpenny cables come to pass
within his lifetime here below. Personally,
I cannot enthuse worth a cent over Hen-
niker and his ideas, although I have already
saved a few pennies in postage to Britain.
Seems to me that the importers and other
well-to-do persons who had most to gain by
the reduction in the overseas postage rate
were the very ones who should have been
taxed by a raising of it to 3d. To bring the cost
of commercial, financial and stockbroking
cablegrams down to a penny a word would
be a truly sinful piece of class legislation.
And as for the excuse that needy people
here and there occasionally use the cable
service for private, personal purposes—well,
there is no reason why a paternal Govern-
ment should not arrange a special price for
their benefit. Have never cabled to any
friends and relatives in Britain myself dur-
ing 30 years of separation from them. Still, I
might wish one day to send news of my
decease, at a penny a word. But that is no
reason why Shoddy and Co., the importers,
should receive a large annual concession
from the Government which transmits their
orders for foreign goods.
- »
The Liberals are still finding out that the
Constitution is an utterly impracticable
proposition, and the amendment of it, which
was a black sin in May, is a shining virtue
in June. The Argus sums up the magic
change:—
In respect to the Senate the Constitution has
utterly broken down. It is entirely useless for any
Lament and Curse.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
(Wailed and sworn on June 12, being the fourth
day of heavy rain and black clouds.)
Lo ! I have done !
I cast from me my umbrella, and it falleth
like a bucket of water cast into exterior
darkness.
My goloshes shall cling no more to my feet,
and my overcoat shall hang like a
discarded shield in the washhouse.
For my patience is exhausted, O Lord, and
my socks likewise, and my linen.
I have ventured abroad in the storms, and,
bit by bit, my armor has forsaken me.
The tirewoman sitteth disconsolate by the
stove and looketh upon washing that is
not so;
For the rain and the wind make sport of the
labor of her hands ;
And the flapping of wet washing in the wind
woundeth her in her bosom.
The things that are dry we cling to as to a
brother.
For lo! a dry garment is more to us than
rubies,
And a pair of hot socks dear beyond all
reckoning.
The wind hath shaken our house, and the
rain hath drummed on our roof-tree.
We have lain down wearied at midnight by
the demons that seem to surround us.
And lo! with the dawn have we risen to hear
the same clamor and riot!
Lord, it is over the odds! Therefore —let’s
to our heavyweight cursing.
curse to be launched at the void.
Out of my heart —out of my heart and my
mouth,
This is my curse aimed at the rain-burdened
South.
May all the flames of the Pit —green, purple,
yellow and red—
Lick up the cloud-veils you wear round your
tempestuous head !
May the dull heat of Hell’s furnace stifle
your winds as they soar—
Stifle and kill them at sea, far from the
flower-decked shore !
Let them not play with the dust —sport with
the grass and the trees !
Keep them from tram-tickets, chaff, cinders
and pleasures like these !
Boil them, and bake them, and fry—grill
them, and devil and roast!
Kill them and keep them away from all
things they like blowing most!
Let them not harry the waves, driving them
north, terror-blind !
Jump on their ear with both feet and
savagely kick them behind !
Blister them! Shrivel them quite! Seal
their pestiferous breath !
Vanquish these furies in black whose icy
lungs whistle with death!
Let the warm winds from the north, mounted
on chargers of white,
Fly to do battle with them. Raiders of joy,
health and light!
Flame to their dwelling-place ! Flame! Steel
to their hearts and their—Eh?
Coming on heavier? D —n it! I’ve done my
best for it to-day !
N.S.W.
THE RELIGIOUS EDITOR.


l IPI
Garden
Seeds.
gh
NO MONEY WANTED.
order to introduce our HIGH-GRADE
li> oruer iu muuuutc vw* ***'-■-•*
TESTED SEEDS into every home, we are
srivinsr a wav prizes such as MUSICAL IN-
STRUMENTS, SILVER MATCHES AND
CHAINS. CAMERAS, RAISBIT RIFLES,
UDIES' MUFF CHAINS, SOLID GOLD
RINGS, JEWELLERY, etc., FREE to the
value of One Thousand Pounds. All you have
to do is to Send Us Your Same and Address,
and we will forward vou 24 assorted packets of
our Reliable Seeds, such as Turnip, Lettuce,
Cabbage. Tomato , Wallflower, Sweet William,
Mignonette. Gaiilardia, etc. Sell the packets at
3d. per packet, send us our money (65.). and
we will send vou by return mail any present you
mav select from our prand list. WE TRI ST
YOU—THE RISK IS OURS. You may return
the seeds if not sold. Don’t delay. SEND AT
ONCE before our offer is withdrawn.
fgh
A
EIG
Electric Radiators
EVEN TEMPERATURE,
EASY REGULATION.
Two Light, Four Light,
50/- 60'=
.Australian Metal Co. L"L
40-2 Clarence Street, Sydney.
“ Booklearnin’ ”
is all very well—but “eye learnin’,’’ that is, seeing things
and learning about them from the moving pictures, is
certainly a valuable adjunct to the school. Teachers
everywhere are beginning to appreciate and send their
pupils to our theatres.
Our New Theatre:
The Empress, Prahran (Melbourne).
—and 6 others.
WM. B. MILLER, Gen’l Manager.
WHERE
EVERYBODY
GOES
good purpose, but is most potent lor mischief. Re-
garded as a check upon legislation it is laughable...
The people will be compelled to resolutely face the
duty of asserting themselves as a democracy and in-
sist upon withdrawing privileges which have entirely
missed their purpose.
The humorous feature of the whole business
is that the “Liberals” have dished them-
selves. The Laborites didn’t make the Con-
stitution ; the Liberals did. Tens of thou-
sands of people only swallowed the dose
because to reject it meant the indefinite
postponement of Federation. Laborites
wouldn’t be human if they didn’t get some
joy out of the sight of their old opponents
stewing in their own gravy, over the fire of
their own making, in the pot of their own
choosing.
[S. H. Prior, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
This paper has been solemnly warned that
the June issue of the Sale (Vic.) Church
News will contain a list of the staff of The
Bulletin, living and dead, stating how long
the deceased members were connected with
the staff, and w’hat particular kind of “vio-
lent means” they died of. The Bulletin
expects a lot of new and startling informa-
tion fiom that Church paper. As regards
most of the departed staff, the coroners’
juries were unable to place the cause of
death, so, if the Rev. G. H. Smith, who
promised the forthcoming revelation, can
throw a flood of spiritual light on those aw-
ful mysteries, it may lead to several arrests
in the office. Moreover, the present mem-
bers of the staff will be glad to know where
their predecessors went to. By the way, the
Church News idea is stale even if the
yarn be new. Not very long ago
another “religious” paper published a
list of Bulletin men who had died
young, or middle-aged, and tw T o of them by
suicide. One of the suicides was also a con-
tributor to some eminently “respectable”
publications. Neither of them was ever on the
staff of this paper, and one had even left off
contributing and left the country years before
his death. Then the pious organ added, to
show the blessedness of the other side of the
case, a list of obscure parsons who had ob-
tained a very considerable venerability. But
it didn’t mention that The Bulletin can
show three healthy and vigorous contribu-
tors aged w r ell over 70. Nor did it allude
to the fact that the Founder of Christianity
“went out” by violence at the age of 33,
and that the Church claims that hundreds
and thousands of martyrs —including the
1.1,000 virgins of Cologne—died horribly
when quite young, and that an apostle
hanged himself. It finished its tale with
the w r ise remark: “By their fruits ye shall
know them!” Well, why not? Judas
Iscariot belonged to the Church—not to
The Bulletin.
♦ .
The disgruntled Melbourne Age may now
sit down and consider the size of the “vic-
tory” it crowed so loudly about on the Mon-
day after the voting. It refused to support
the Labor party, though the leaven of Pro-
tectionist Labor from Victoria was the thing
Protection had most to hope from; and in
the scuffle that followed it lost the three
most out-and-out Protectionists in Common-
wealth politics—Lyne, Sam Mauger and G.
H. Wise. And, refusing to give the Lab-
orites a hand, it saw Scullin and McDougall,
two of the stoutest Protectionist advocates
in the Common-wealth’s Labor party, go over-
board and drown. If this was a “victory,”
Heaven save the Age from a defeat!
[F. C. Jones, Elgar-road, Burwood, Victoria.]
“D.”: Really, if only in the interests of
the collection plate, it is about time they
stopped discovering fresh Apocrvnha. The
latest one, according to a cable of last week,
describes the defeat of the Devil, the destruction
of the gates and bolts and bars of the inferno, the
extinction of the fires, the overturning of the caul-
drons and the liberation of Adam and Eve.
With the Devil defeated, and Hell utterly
ruined, the necessity for a whole lot of re-
strictions on the moral liberty of the subject
disappears. For my own part, I shall
henceforth commit, without a tremor, such
offences as plural voting, stealing from the
person, surreptitiously putting on the score
at billiards, jeering at defeated Parliamen-
tary candidates, champerty, maintenance,
and throwing the empty glass at the bar-
maid, so often as 1 shall have adjudged the
liquor therein (meaning in the glass, not in
the barmaid) to be bad. The discovery that
Gehenna has been a spent force or myth or
Socialistic tiger for some 1913 years gives
one to think mournfully of all the festivity
that has been given up, as it were under
false pretences, in that period. The world
wduld have been a far cheerier and less
gory place had the Gospel of St. Bartholo-
mew come to hand earlier. A matter for
especial regret, in connection with the great
find, is the way it cheapens one of the most
august figures in literature. The “destruc-
tion of the gates, bolts and bars,” “ the ex-
tinction of the fires,” “the overturning of
the cauldrons” :—it more suggests a riot in
a soup-kitchen than the final scrap of him
•whom Milton termed —
The strongest and the fiercest Spirit
That fought in Heaven.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING W r EEK.
Royal “Midsummer Night’s Dream.”
Her Majesty’s "itie Count of Luxembourg.”
Criterion “Excuse Me.”
Palace The Grafters.
Adelphi “Life’s Shop Window.”
Tivolj Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Little Theatre “Bobby Burmt.”
National Amphitheatre Brennan's Vaudeville Co.
Alhambra Vaudeville.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric V
Colonial > Continuous Pictures.
Empress J
Crystal Palace Continuous Pictures, etc.
Olympia West's Pictures.
Town Hall Clara Butt Concerts.
Imperial Roller Rink. Roller Skating.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s Adeline Gen6e.
Princess’s “Beggar Girl’s Wedding.”
King’s “The Native Born.”
Royal “Within the Law.”
Opera House. Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Bijou “Girl Behind the Counter.”
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer's Pictures.
Lyric, Prahran Photo Plays.
Majestic Amalgamated Pictures.
Glaciarium.: Ice Skating.
The Auditorium Tokio Town.
The American (U.S.) vaudeville co., in-
troduced to Sydney by William Anderson
at the Palace Theatre on Saturday night,
had contracted to provide, in return for the
price of admission, a ‘‘musical scream, en-
titled ‘The Grafters.’ ” “The Grafters”
turned up, likewise the best part of the
musical, but the scream apparently took the
wrong turning. Which is just as well. The
show that is responsible for the A sharp
squeal of the soprano flapper, the harsh,
prolonged squawk of her stout mamma (the
writer has sat beside some mammas whose
false teeth rattled when they squawked),
the bray and splutter of the dairy-fed book-
maker or importer, is a public nuisance.
“The Grafters” is a cobweb of plot upon
which is hung a fair variety of light merri-
ment—that, and no more. Most of the
music is tuneful and, as in the song
“Wouldn’t That Be a Dream?”‘it is quaint,
and some of the character work is excellent.
Harry Burgess, the hayseed constable, and
Bert La Blanc, the Hebrew tramp, need no
press agent to explain what they are. As
for the dancers, the lady with the varie-
gated legs (Miss Eugenie La Blanc), the
afore-mentioned Harry Burgess and the sty-
lish Gertrude St. Clair are hereby invited
out to swing the axe. And there is a herd
of nice chorus girls. On the other hand, the
“gagging” is frequently spread too thick, as
the Carpenter remarked about the butter, and
the hustle for the scream is sometimes too
crude. Also, the advertisement in aid of
some exhibition boosters along the Pacific
Slope is somewhat rubbed into the whiskers
of the audience. Taking it all round the
show might be worse.
“THE COUNT OF LUXEMBOURGAT
HER MAJESTY'S ,
SYDNEY.
Victor Prince threatens to send the comic cook
(Phil Smith) to Siberia.
Sydney’s Little Theatre has got on to
“Bobby Burnit.” This comedy, by Winchel
Smith, the dramatiser of "The Fortune
Hunter,” of happy memory, deals with high
finance in a back-blocks town of the L .S.
Burnit, deceased, proprietor of the Burnit
Stores, left a curious will, the gist of which
was that, as his son Bobby had shown no
knowledge of business, he would not inherit
his father’s millions until he had convinced
his trustee, unnamed, that he could make
good on his own as a business man. Inci-
dentally, the deceased made a nice girl,
whom both Bobby and he meant Bobby to
marry, his trustee. And for further guid-
ance, he left with his head clerk a series of
sealed letters to be handed to his son at the
various crises of his life. One letter was to
be given to Bobby when he took over the
Stores ; another when he lost the Stores ; and
(as the deceased knew Bobby had
grit) he left a third letter to be given to
Bobby when he had won back the Stores.
Bobby takes to business as if it was polo,
and his infantile attempts to assume the
mantle of his father lead to delightful comedy
and to sudden ruin. In the clever scene in
the second act there is a company meeting
that is hilarious comedy, but suddenly
changes to gravity as Bobby realises that he
is ruined, and has also dropped the whole
of the nice girl’s savings. Henceforward
we see a new Bobby, strenuously engaged in
a life-and-death fight against the forces of
“graft” that have the town in grip. By
showing up the career of the grafter-in-chief,
he and his head clerk manage to drive him
from the town, and Bobby builds on his ruin
the foundations of a fortune. If possible,
“ WITHIN THE LAW," AT MEL-
BOURNE ROYAL.
A snapshot of the gentle art of persuasion in
Amur'ka.
the financial expert of this paper will be
prevailed upon later to draw up the annual
report of the Burnit Stores, with balance-
sheet attached. As far as can be seen,
however, Bobby does not show any business
sense at all. He fights a long, losing fight
till, part by accident, part by trick, he com-
pels a “shark” to hand over the small batch
of shares that aives him the controlling inter-
est in the company. And he buys at auction,
for one-tenth of what it is worth, also by a
fortuitous inspiration, and without any
knowledge of its value, the whole of the
shares of a monopoly. From the moment of
Bobby’s advent into business, till he is left
with a fortune, he has not created one cent
of value. He has merely gambled. How-
ever, that, in America, and possibly else-
where. is “business ability.”
* * * *
Hugh C. Buckler was quite captivating in
his cheerful ingenuousness ; and the change
in his face as, in a few minutes, he saw his
whole fortune crumble at the company meet-
ing, was a real piece of convincing drama.
His subsequent seriousness was equally effec-
tive. After the strain of Shaw, Miss Vio-
let Paget had an easy time, but she gave a
slight character its proper emphasis, and
in the second act attracted ,the keen atten-
tion of the audience by her “Futurist” gown,
evidently designed by a “Cubist” of the most
triangular tendencies. The finest bit of
character-acting among the smaller parts was
that of Kay Souper as the snappy, honest,
shabby clerk. Every gesture and tone
was accurate. Kenneth Brampton, as a
gymnasium owner, and the only person in
the whole group of financiers who actually
made money, took full advantage of his chance
for comedy. Alfred Bristowe, as the other
clerk, was entertaining, and the group of
grafters looked their parts. Special men-
tion must be made of Reynolds Denniston’s
forceful interpretation of the sinister grafter-
in-chief, Sam Stone. For a bustling, excit-
ing and hilarious comedy, “Bobby Burnit” is
awarded a little medal.
Rudolph Besier’s extremely talky comedy,
“Don.” was presented by the Sydney Stage
Societv, at the Palace Theatre, on Friday
evening. In the first act, after a very dull
opening, Stephen Bonington (otherwise
“Don”), a poet, the son of religious though
honest parents, brings home to the Canon’s
house the persecuted wife of a Wowser.
“Don” is quite unaware of the misconcep-
tions engendered in the minds of his parents,
of the girl he is engaged to, and of her
parents, by this, to him, quite natural action.
The woman who was being cruelly ill-treated
by her Wowser, appealed to “Don,” with
whom she was romantically in love, and he
carried her off. On the way, owing to the
girl's illness, they had to stop one night at
an hotel; and this romantic deliverer of
oppressed ladies saw no harm in them
occupying the same bedroom. The infuriated
husband arrives, and demands his wife,
spouting texts and flourishing a revolver.
But already the lady had discovered that
“Don” does not love her, and in the end
she consents to return to her husband, who
is tardily convinced that his suspicions have
no foundation. The play is occasionally
frankly realistic, but, unless propped up by
an actor of more personality than that
shown by Mr. Gilbert Nathan, it fails to
convince. Mr. Nathan failed quite to
gest the quixotic character of “Don,” thou/h
he. showed an intelligent grasp of its minor
points. Miss Gavin Brown, as the f Us <, v
mother of Don Quixote, was natural and in
character. As the Canon, Mr. Harris,™
Allen spoilt by his mechanical gestures an
otherwise excellent interpretation \j7
V ictor Cohen, as the ranting Wowser'
stressed that fanatic’s unpleasantness with
vigor; and other parts were more or less
—probably less —satisfactorily taken by Miss
Ross Brown, Miss Beatrice McDonald Miss
Eileen Hart and Mr. Adrian Stephen ’ Sliss
Cross, as the ill-used and hysterical wife
gave an astonishingly real performance of a
very emotional and difficult part. Her work
was on altogether a higher level than is usu
ally found in the ranks of amateur actor-
dom.
“The Count of Luxembourg” is thinking
more or less seriously of abandoning Her
Majesty’s, Sydney, and a new musical
comedy, w-ith a highly military flavoring
about it, is asking itself whether the time is
not ripe for a prolonged spell at this play-
house. Owing either to the dastardly con-
duct of the Labor party ( IState . not Federal-
the writer is sick of this signing nonsense)
the unwonted conjunction of Mars with the
Pleiades, or the rotten weather we have
been having of late, or a dash of all three
the name of the pending production is for
the moment unknown. In order to be well
within the facts, The Bulletin will there-
fore do no more than remark warily that it
is probably one of the most amazing, gor-
geous, tuneful and intellectual entertain-
ments that has held a first night in Sydney
for some time, but how- long that time may-
be this paper sayeth not, lest by dropping
into statistics, it might be charged with
contempt of Ivnibbs’s job.
V *!*
Despite the weather, which is still some-
what disorganised even for June, the Asche-
Brayton co. continues its artistic Midsum-
mer Dreaming, at Sydney Royal. The
managerial advt. solemnly warns the snif-
fling citizen that only three weeks of theco.s
season remain to him. If he lacks the
sense to take that hint, he should give up
professing to be a citizen.
* * * *
Joseph McCabe, the scientist who knows
more than the other men in a million and
can tell it more charmingly than the other
men in five millions, has now- arranged his
Sydney lectures. They will begin in the
Protestant Hall on July 1, and run over a
week or thereabouts. Carlyle Smythe is
managing the season; and if he can expand
the little Protestant Hall so that it will
hold all the people who ought to hear
McCabe, there is a great future before him
in Sydney-—especially at Easter Show-time.
* * * *
The Overland Limited Express, loaded
with hilarity and sprinkled w r ith confetti, is
still running on time at Sydney Criterion.
The management ought to present a free
pass to the N.S.W. Raihvay Commissioner.
“Excuse Me,” by its quaintness of setting
and its realistic “sticking up” scene, has
caught on with the Sydney public. Its
chief fault is that that admirable comedian.
Fred Niblo, has not the opportunities that
were his in the previous productions.
•f* *S» •!*
The Flying Banvards, the half-dozen new-
comers at Sydney Tivoli, would make their
turn infinitely more attractive if they
occasionally scored a mishit and landed on
the back of the neck. As it is, the accuracy
becomes painful. But if it’s accuracy they
aim at, they do it remarkably well. Lucy
Gillet, the juvenile German acrobat, juggler
and furniture remover, still refuses to take
life seriously ; and De Mario and Lady, the
contortionists, the Quaint Q’s and Roosters
(both last nights) and the Kremkas and
Kebble Sisters all get their share of pro-
gramme space.
The life of Sydney Adelphi heroine this
time is to be short, but crowded. On Friday
night “The Girl Who Knew a Bit" will be
forcibly removed, and on Saturday
Anderson will put in “Life’s Shop Window."
No plot has yet been discovered among the
suffragettes to break it.
* * * *
Julius Knight’s season at Adelaide Royal
establishes him more firmly than ever as a
fine, all-round actor. The old, romantic side
being dropped for a time, he put up a fine
tour de force as John Rhead. “Man and
Superman” he sailed through with the
pawky or "roguish” accent turned on: and
in “Bella Donna” he quite merged. his iden-
tity in the Hebrew doctor. Miss Irene
Browne stepped with equal ease from the
gentle Emily Rhead to Shaw’s man-catcher
and Hichens’s man-slayer. Martin L ew^ s
was effective in fairly easy work —Monk-
hurst’s well-bred insolence. Tavy's tears, and
Nigel Armine’s weak lovableness. Emma
Temple, Grace Noble, Mary Goulden, Ma?-
gie Knight; Leslie Victor, Greenaway. \'il-
ley (who might play lead any time neces-
sary), Robert Whyte—it is a fine co., ana
manager Hazlitt has been on a good wicket
all through the season. Now a locally-
trained opera co., greatly daring, has taken


£V#D‘
LmONSQUAS
SCHWEPPES’
Lime Juice Cordial
made exclusively from Montserrat Lime Fruit
Juice, by special arrangement with the
proprietors of Montserrat. Montserrat Lime
Fruit Juice is a most refreshing and thirst-
quenching drink. It is soft and palatable to
the palate, so unlike all other Lime Juice.
SCHWEPPES LIMITED,
Purveyors to His Majesty the King.
Keep it
On Hand
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS.
NABOB BOOT PASTE,
the Waterproof
Boot Polish.
ONE APPLICATION WILL LAST A WEEK, A BRUSH UP
BEING ALL THAT IS NECESSARY IN BETWEEN WHILES.
LEWIS 3c WHITTY, Makers, Melbourne and Sydney. n
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
Victorian Branch 50 QWLER Manager bOUr Pitt 8 King Streets, SYDNEY.
FIRE ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc.
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
’Phone No. 236 Central. SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
the Royal for a whole week with the ever-
green “Dorothy.” Violet Paine has the name
part, and Ray Walsh the low comedy.
* :£ * #
There is a good programme at Adelaide
Tivoli, especially on the musical side —with
Reynard, Sydney Bach and Rosella, the
harpist. Corson Clarke puts up a humorous
“sketch” with Miss Dale-Owen, and the
American cross-talk includes some worth-
while jokes. Madge Temple, too, has at
last been able to bring her frocks and her
songs to Adelaide. The King’s has a varied
bill, ranging from Mysto’s magic to the
Lessos’ juggling and shooting; from Desper-
ado’s funny acrobatic work to Rivenhall’s
really-good comic songs, without any red-
nose foolishness. Mr. and Mrs. Rumford-
Butt seem more popular at the Exhibition
the longer they remain, but it is desperately
cold barn for concerts in winter. The chief
thing in the picture-line is a big Italian idea
of Satan, Miltonic and modern.
sfc *
The other night Melbourne Town Hall
held a large and hearty audience when Mary
Conly shivered in an atmosphere that was
on the point of freezing. The buxom lady
gave of her best in Roger Quilter’s “Come
Back,” Schumann’s “Dem Helden,” and
Landon Ronald’s elegy to dear Adonais.
Later her finished exuberance turned “Er-
nani involani” from a trite and tattered
warble into a treasured recollection. Maggie
Stirling’s contralto softly thawed the frozen
chunk of air in a rich “Delilah” item, and
Louis Hattenbach, with the vertical hair
and disorganised coat-tails, warmed his
’cello in Gossman’s “Tarantella,” wherein
the ’celloist became a musical express with
the accompaniste toiling heavily in his wake.
“The Girl Behind the Counter” at Mel-
bourne Bijou adds no glory to the record of
the persevering amateur organisation that
ventured to rush in where “The Grafters”
had ceased to tread. It is the patchy
musical comedy in which Brett of yore used
to hanker after nuttiness and wherein Crom-
well made a huge success on the
first night by happening to split his pants.
The music is neither frequent nor very
catchy, except for the charming “Won’t You
Buy” duet and one or two other numbers.
In short, it is not a likely piece for any
amateurs to set the Yarra ablaze with.
When they are not brilliant, and the comedy
wants a lot more acting and staging than
they can give it, the performance needs a
friendly audience to keep it warm. In this
case the pretty duet suffered severely from
the want of a staircase exit for the prima
donna, and the chorus girls were mostly
handicapped in the first act by costumes
which Natpre had not built them to adorn.
In the second act, where W. Ottey, as the
waiter, gave a passable imitation of W.
■ Cromwell, the show was less dispiriting.
Miss Schnabel, as Winnie, displayed several
qualifications, but lacked the vim of self-
confidence. The baritone’s disqualifications
included a clumsy method of uttering his
song words. J. T. Moore was a crude old
General, and J. Baylis made a deplorable
Gushington. William Pope, as the office
boy who shakes a £5 note from the till and
spends the ill-gotten wealth in frivolous dis-
sipation with Susie (Miss Connolly), may
be said to have shared the bun with Ottey
aforesaid. But it was a very stale bun,
anyhow. The M.C.O.C. has hired the Bijou
for a whole fortnight, and will presumably
try a change of bill before the time is up.
* * *
“Within the Law” is in its fifth week at
Melbourne Royal, and will continue to
flourish till further orders.
•I* 'i* H*
The brightest of sundry new turns at Mel-
bourne Opera House is the athletic acro-
batic display of the two Bellclairs, who
stand for patterns of manly grace and do
fine feats of strength in a most picturesque
way. Tiebor, with his educated seals and
sea lions, goes one better than a previous
captain with a similar lot of marine flappers,
but the intelligence and balancing instinct
of these shiny and somewhat damp amphi-
bians has lost the charm of novelty.
Prince, the concertina expert, is back for a
few nights, the musical Elizabeth Clair is a
new-comer, and the cycling Jacksons, the'
O’Hana-San varieties, the De Bruns, George
Whitehead, Dale and Brookes are happening
as before.
David Bispham, the rich-voiced baritone
who is something more than a singer, will
come to pass in Melbourne at the Audi-
torium on Friday and Saturday this week,
and some nights in the week to come. His
reputation has come ahead of him by way
of Sydney, and the city is looking for David
to live up to it. At St. George’s Hall, across
the road, the Dandies finish their six weeks
session on Saturday night.
The return of the Bert Bailey Co. to Mel-
bourne King’s, last Saturday, supplies the
lately-felt want of Australians for Australia
in local bellowdrama. Albert Edmunds,
who is Bailey-cwm-Duggan in collusion, calls
the present outbreak a “novelty drama,
under the heading of “The Native Born,
and the matter answers to its description.
Bailey personally, in the opportune charac-
ter of a genial magician, hypnotist and won-
der-worker, supplies the novelties, whilst the
other people put in the melodrama. A sinful
land agent, abetted by two minions, has
grabbed all the water frontage in the Kos-
ciusko district, and covets also the selec-
tion where the hero abides with his serious
“WITHIN THE LAWA," MEL-
BOURNE
ROYAL.
How American ladies go to gaol.
May Worth as
Aggie.
dad and volatile young
sister. The discovery of
gold on the coveted pro-
perty intensifies the vil-
lain’s anxiety to buy it,
and the desire of the vil-
lain’s gaudy sister to
steal the hero from an-
other girl serves to
thicken the plot. There-
fore it is up to Bailey
to thwart the schemes of
the evildoers by means of
De Biereish devices and
pantomime effects. He
constructs an unaccount-
able temple of mystery
on the Kosciusko selec-
tion —a blackened stage
framed with electric
lights—and with a series
of apparitional tricks bor-
rowed from a William-
sonian panto he extracts
from the villain’s trem-
bling minion the name of
the person who committed
the murder, in much the
same way that Tweedle-
punch and Grace Palotta
induce the unlawful
owner of the island of
Florodora to confess his
fraud. Also, Bailey is apt
to pop up from nowhere
in a magicianly manner, to prevent the hero’s
arrest. If the villain is about to seize an
opportunity, or _ take a mean advantage,
Bailey converts it into an inkstand or a hat-
rack by a mystic movement of his hands.
A tablecloth, flung over the hero in the hour
of need, changes the concealed object into
Bailey himself, and where the baffled trans-
gressor is looking for his prey, he finds only
a bouquet of flags or a birdcage, maybe.
The only sort of trick that the resourceful
Bailey has overlooked is the liquor trick.
If he were to disguise himself as a book-
case, whilst the land agent was tempting
Ned Duggan to drink a bottle of chloroform,
he might bring down the house by changing
the fatal draught into a pint of beer.
Fun and fury chase one another with
great rapidity through the Albert Edmunds
miracle play, and there are but few dry
moments in its career. The dialogue is
good Australian, but, generally sneaking, the
jokes and the stage management are more
forcible than the acting. George Kensing-
ton, as the murderous minion, is hardly
more underdone (for bellowdrama purposes)
than Treloar, as the offender-in-chief. J.
P. Lennon, as the scared confessor, expresses
his genuine histrionic feelings rather too
quietly. The heroine (Miss Oakey) is a
colorlessly tepid actress, with an unmusical
voice, and Miss Bevan, as a conventional
old maid, is amateurish. On the other hand,
Guy Hastings is a pleasing hero. Duggan
does well enough as his Dad. Fred Mac-
donald and Harford are satisfactory in minor
comedy. Miss Roberts, as the young sister,
is a “hit of orlriaht,” and the distinctive
personality of Bailey is the chief bulwark
of the show. Dramatically, “The Native
Born” does very well, and scenic artists
Vaughan and Robins have done good work
for it.
* * * *
The sad and rather gruesome happenings
of “The Beggar Girl’s Wedding” appealed
to a moderate congregation at Melb. Prin-
cess’s last Saturday night. Bess Webster
is the heroine, and Bess’s early emergence
from poverty, on the arm of a strangely-
acquired husband, is attended by all the
mischief that a cheap and nasty villain can
bring to pass. He performs all the old
stunts, from chloroform-doping to theft and
homicide, their one object being to ruin Bess
and annoy her lawful husband. His wicked-
ness is aided and abetted by the husband’s
stupidity. It goes almost without saying
that the noble fathead’s name is Jack. Most
people apparently regard Jack as a medium
wherein George Cross may show off, in a
series of stained-glass attitudes illustrating
the emotions of a purse-proud hero. And
when this paper considers the matter, all
the other characters seem superfluous to a
tale which George so adorns with his beau-
teous posturings. George, after all, is the
entertainment. We have George getting tight
like a perfect gentleman; George distribut-
ing largesse to a tattered mob ; George huri-
ing the villain down eight flights of stairs ;
George perishing bravely in an iron-barred
cage; George spouting beatifically in his
high-heeled boots —in fact, George in all his
lovely incredibility. Beside such achieve-
ments, it should be sufficient reference to
the other members of the cast to state simply
and formally that they also spoke.
** * #
A five nights’ revival of “Miss Hook of
Holland” at Her Majesty’s (Melbourne), on
Saturday, is paving the way for Gen€e and
the Russian ballet. They will transpire with
unparalleled brilliance on the 21st. “Miss
Hook” is a pretty entertainment, and on
Saturday it had its quaint Dutch characters
demonstrated by a practically new cast.
Leslie Holland is a subdued and soft-spoken
Mr. Hook, trying to adapt his
strut to the waddle of the fat old distiller.
Frank Greene unconvincingly tenants the
uniform of Bandmaster Van Vuyt, and
Cannot, as Slinks in anew sham nose, is an
intermittent sound of revelry by night.
Bantock, in his element as the drowsy Van
Eck, is a picture of perfect rest, while Hig-
ginson resurrects his giggle to decorate the
amorous Captain Paap. Miss Olive God-
win’s tunefulness and cheerful comportment
as Sally Hook protect her from the wind
of inclement criticism, and Miss Jessie
Lonnen easily conceals her angularity in
Mina’s numerous “petties.” The show,
whereof the male chorus again is admirable,
occurs for the last time to-night (Thurs-
day). On Saturday Gen6e and the other
incomparables will happen as aforemen-
tioned.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Gimlet”: The tricks of melodrama are amusing.
Superior melodrama, I mean. Plain bellodrama has
no tricks. It merely resorts to audacities. But a
play like “Within the Law” is a bag of smart tricks,
and one gets good entertainment in watching them.
Observe, then, that the first object of the play is to
get the audience’s full sympathy for a girl who,
after her renaissance, lives luxuriously by wrong-
doing in an atmosphere of unmitigated criminality ;
who is supposed to nurse a revenge as good women
nurse a baby; and who entraps a feather-headed
fool of a boy into marriage by means so unaccount-
able that the drama never attempts to explain them.
How is sympathy to be won for a young woman like
her ? In the first place, she is presented as an inno-
cent, hard-working shop-girl, convicted on circum-
stantial evidence of another girl’s theft. After her
conviction, whilst being dragged to prison by a
policeman who has handcuffed her to his own wrist
because she tried to “make her away” (as though a
girl whilst travelling from courthouse to prison could
be seriously considered as a possible fugitive !), she
is brought to the office of her employer in order
that she may, whilst protesting her innocence, rail
at him and his system of sweating his employees.
He, seemingly, is a dull-brained millionaire who
honestly believes the girl to be a thief. The police-
man tells him that all such thieves assert their
innocence. The girl knows that he honestly dis-
believes her protests, yet she goes away—dragged
by the policeman—vowing to be revenged on the
boss who “ordered” her conviction, but was not per-
sonally responsible for her arrest. Her promise to
make the boss suffer for every hour of her imprison-
ment provides the climax of the first act. Before
the end of the second act she has married his fool
of a son, and then she makes the “situation” by
taunting the old boss with the success of her
policy of vengeance. “You gave me a number”
(prison number), she says. “Now I have taken
your name.” But, in the meantime, the playwright
has considered the fact that a girl, innocent when
she went to gaol, who had thought of nothing but
vengeance for three years, and then went right away
to join a community of thieves and blackmailers,
would be in danger of losing the audience’s sym-
pathy. So the playwright takes precautions. No
admirable character of any kind is permitted in the
story. The policemen are brutal dogs, the boss of
the emporium is a soulless ass, his son is a brainless
waster, his lawyer tries to out-crook the crooks.
Still the fact remains that a girl who walked out
of prison without a thought of ever being honest
any more would seem hardly a lovable heroine.
What does the dramatist do ? He informs the audi-
ence, per medium of Joe the Forger, that Mary did
want to go straight when she emerged from quod.
That she sought honest employment, but was
“narked” by the police every time (more cause for
sympathy!), and that in her despair of getting a
poor but honest billet, she sought a watery grave,
whence Joe the Forger rescued her. Then Joe nursed
her back to health, and led her gently into criminal
society. That’s how she came to be running the
blackmail boarding-house where the audience find her
in the second act, and thus she preserves their sym-
pathy. But—there are a lot more “buts” in the
later acts of the drama —if Mary’s ambition on leav-
ing prison was to return to the wretched, hopeless
shop-girl life she had been dragged from three years
previously, how about the vengeance she had promised
Poppa Gilder? How was she going to make him
suffer for every hour of her imprisonment, with 500
p.c. interest? As a humble toiler, known to the
police, she couldn’t have inflicted much slow ven-
geance on a millionaire. And how was she going to
hurt the old gentleman by committing suicide? She
never would have met Gilder, junior, in her fine rai-
ment, never could have told him fairy tales about
her luxurious domicile; never could have introduced
her “crook” friends to him as evidence of her un-
blemished respectability, if Forger Joe had not hap-
pened to see her when she was trying to drown her-
self. Had she committed suicide, as she intended,
her impassioned threats against old man Gilder, in
the first act, would have resolved themselves into
the merest skite. The tricks of melodrama are more
than amusing. They are interesting.
“S.T.S.”: As the Rheads and Sibleys of “Mile-
stones” seem now like people that we have known
all our lives, I rise to ask why didn’t Gertrude
marry Sam? The double engagement was broken off
on December 29, 1860, but within two years the
other pair married, with Sam’s approval. Gertrude
always cherished a tender feeling for Sam. He
“led a miserable life as a bachelor” till about 1882,
when he married his typewriter girl. I have no
grumble against this most charming of stories, but
a line would have been welcome to say why the two
failed to be united somewhere about a.d. 1864.
Further, why the arbitrary limitation of families
throughout the piece? There are five households
altogether. In three of them, one boy and one girl
are found ; in the other two, there is an only child.
From royalty to the crossing-sweeper, things were
not thus in the Victorian era.
“Props”: Bailey and Duggan’s play of “The
Native Born” was first called “The Trump Card,”
but they found that the Australian George Darrell
had a play of that name and had acted it. George’s
dramas included “The Four Fates,” “Back from
the Grave,” “The Sunny South,” “Hue and Cry,” and
several others. He got a show with “Sunny South”
in London, appearing himself as Mat Morley, but,
unluckily, an actor wounded him with a bowie knife
in cutting him loose from a tree. This spoilt the
run. A similar accident happened to Charles
Warner in “Michael Strogoff,” but he was replaced
by H. J. Byron. Nobody could replace the volatile
Darrell, one of the most engaging personalities of
the stage that I have met.
“Fontaine”: Died at St. Vincent’s Hospital, Mel-
bourne, on 11th inst. Andrew Howard, one of the
well-known Howard Bros., “telepathists,” who
caused a mild sensation when they first came to
Australia 10 years ago under engagement to Wirth
Bros. They remained' with Wirths for a consider-
able time, and afterwards had long bookings with
Rickards and Brennan. Another Howard, a nephew
of the brothers, will probably fill the vacancy, and
so keep the mysterious secret, gift or whatever it
is in the family.
It was of Rosina Buckmann, Maoriland’s sweet
soprano, that Melba said last year, “....One who
will surety gather the laurel wreath for herself, for
she has tenacity of purpose, courage, capability and
withal, an exceptional voice; I predict a great
future for her....” Rosina will get her chance in
1914. The influence of Melba and John McCor-
mack, plus her own talents, have secured her for
“Parsifal” at Covent Garden, in January, and for
the grand-opera season.
Returning to England with £30,000 to the good
(accounts unaudited), Sara Bernhardt tells an inter-
viewer : “My ambition now is to be a great-grand-
mother.” Well, why shouldn’t she be one? The
Bulletin offers no objection.
(Continued on page 30.)
To relieve the tedium of the long-drawn-
out counting of Senate and Referendum
votes, Melbourne arranged for itself a sen-
sation last week. This was an alleged con-
spiracy to murder a young married woman
named Florence King, wife of a railway
parcels clerk. Mrs. King’s narrative was
that an unknown young woman called on
her on June 7 with a parcel of clothing
alleged to have come from King’s sister at
Echuca. She invited the stranger inside and
offered her refreshment, pouring out also a
cup of tea for herself. She then left the
room, she said, for a few minutes, and on
her return noticed a whitish powder floating
on the tea and some spilt around the cup.
The liquid tasting bitter she left it, and sub-
sequently got it analysed. It proved to
contain enough strychnine to poison 10 per-
sons ! The police, being informed, inquired
as to the why and the who, and were told
that a young woman, allegedly “mashed” on
King, had pestered bim at his parcels office
window about a year ago, and, being re-
buffed, had gone out to Ascot Vale, where
she and Mrs. King had had a lively meet-
ing. The Law discovered this young woman
and her mate, the latter corresponding to
the description given of the woman who had
come with the parcel. They were arrested ;
but on presentment at court both were in a
state of hysterical collapse, and too broken
up to say a sensible word on the subject.
Last week a gentleman named Speed put
on a spurt in a Sydney drinkery, and just
about beat the record. He requested a perfect
stranger to clean his boots, and when he,
the now imperfect stranger, declined to
either clean Speed’s boots or drink his liquor
Speed tore out his pocket artillery and
started to make a crash. One of the bullets
cut the back of the neck of the gentleman
who would neither drink nor clean boots.
Several others smashed up the bar. The
last ended Speed’s swift career towards gaol.
Which suggests that there was a streak of
wisdom at the back of the shooter’s madness.
The streak increased in width at the inquest,
when it was found that deceased’s sole assets
were a cheap gun and a steamer ticket. He
had £l3O when he arrived at the hotel, and
gave it into the care of the landlord. He had
taken it all back in dribs and drabs, the last
trickle being £5 the night before the bom-
bardment took place. Presumably Speed felt
that when his money had gone his name
would change to Snail, or something of that
sort, and he preferred a wild and riotous
exit. Perhaps he was right!


WINTER SALE
WILL COMMENCE ON
TUESDAY, JUNE 24
Dadd Jones’ Winter Sale —always a remarkable Value-giving event —will commence on Tuesday, June
24 —and promises to be even more conspicuous for Bargains than previously. We want you to realise
that every item is reduced throughout our House for the Sale. We are determined to clear Surplus
Winter Goods, and. in addition, have made a universal price reduction on all regular stock (except
only a few proprietary lines).
OUR SALE CATALOGUE WILL GUIDE DISTANT RESIDENTS
TO THE BARGAINS.
Write for our Sale Catalogue of Bargains—specially published for Distant Residents. It is gratis, and
post free to any address. Remember, David Jones pay Carriage on all goods except Furniture,
Floorcoveringg, Kitchenware, and Hardware, to any part of Australasia or the Pacific Isles.
DAVID JONES LTD.,
Opp. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Gargoyle Mobiloils
are always sold at a good Garage.
For the garage man who has the
interests of his customers at heart
gives them the best of everything
regardless of profit or price
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty. Ltd.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
Man’s inhumanity to woman was power-
fully stressed in a Sydney police court last
week —also the utter brainlessness and lack
of a sense of proportion that characterise a
section of the local police. A 22-year-old
girl was charged with the criminal offence
of having abandoned her child so that its
life was endangered. What she actually did
was to take the child to the Waitara Found-
ling Home and ask the nuns if they would
look after it, as she was financially broke
and couldn’t. The nuns agreed, provided
she would spend the customary two weeks
with the ■ new arrival in the isolation ward.
There were reasons why she couldn’t. She
went away, and a while later the baby was
brought to the Home by someone else, with
a note from the mother imploring the nuns
to look after it. The infant was well-
clothed, healthy, and accompanied by a
bottle loaded with its customary fodder or
sustenance. The nuns took it in and pro-
pose to keep it. Now consider the unhappy
mother’s position. She was married at 17
and deserted at IS. After battling along for
some years she permitted herself to be sup-
ported by a n an who is at present in gaol
for assaulting her. She has a brother-in-law
AN OLD PRO-
VERB FALSIFIED.
"I told Jack that you refused to allow our
marriage, father."
" Well, what did he say?”
“He said he could wait.”
"Why, child, you will never marry a waiter."
who is willing to give her a home, but he
won’t stand the infant because it doesn't
belong to the man who deserted her. Hence
her visit to Waitara. Here is a girl who
has met with the most villainous ill-treat-
ment and misfortune. She can’t live what
is called honestly and keep her child. In a
frantic effort to obey the conventions and
get right with society, to a certain extent,
she allows herself to be separated
from the infant; but she takes all sorts of
care that it shall be well looked after. And
her only reward is that a fool-body of police
abandon the hopeless chase after the genuine
malefactors whom they so rarely overtake,
and try to get her gaoled. Of course the
magistrate dismissed the case. The ends of
justice would have been served even better
had he got up a testimonial for her in recog-
nition of her pluck, while leaping upon those
who were responsible for her arrest with
the heaviest boots in the wardrobe.
Melbourne’s City Coroner Cole —the
occasional husher-up of unquiet evidence —
was engaged last week in sitting on the
adjourned case of a married woman who
somehow descended from a third floor win-
dow at Oxford Chambers into the yard
below and was dying when the night watch-
man found her. The husband of deceased
suggests that she must have walked out of
the window in her sleep, being addicted to
somnambulism. The coroner decided to
throw the onus of decision upon a jury, and
committed the husband for trial. It.
appears there was another girl whose at-
tentions to the deceased’s husband had caused
a lot of unpleasantness all round. The at-
tentions were reciprocated, and the wife was
sadly unphilosophical. When her husband
asked her to “be sensible and let him see
the other girl three or four times a week.”
she declined to adopt that method of “re-
maining good friends.” She nursed her un-
happiness until it presumably grew too
strong for her and got her down into the
yard. Jealousy, as a rule, is pathetic when
it is artless, and. alas ! it is not often crafty.
The crafty little wife beats the other girl
at the finish every time. She runs a waiting
race, keeps a good position next to the
rails, and finally’ romps home with a lot in
hand. But the artless, jealous wife geis
pumped out in trying to catch her rival
when she is going strongest. Because she
can’t bear to think about the other girl she
is always thinking about her in the most
painful manner possible until the agony’ be-
comes unbearable. Then she walks out of
the third-floor window in her troubled sleep
or jumps out by way of protest. These re-
flections apply also to artless, hopeless,
jealous husbands. As for crafty, hopeful,
jealous husbands —well, there are none.
The S.A. Supreme Court has taken the
step, very unusual in that State, of striking
a lawyer off the rolls. It was what the
Chief Justice called a “dark and sordid
story.” Among other misdeeds gent, one
had deposited a lady T client’s shares as
security’ for his own overdraft; bad got
money for a loan that was not arranged,
and for shares that were not bought; had
misrepresented by £2OO the price of a house
be had bought for a client; and had been
guilty of plain, unfrilled misappropriation
of money’s received. After eight days before
one Judge, and three before the Full Court,
the latt°r institution ordered the name of
Judah Moss Solomon, senior, to be struck
off the roll. The last straw was a declara-
tion. “in justice to my’self.” by 7 Paris Xesbit.
K.C.. that, though he had (without fee)
conducted the defence, so that this member
of the profpssion should have everv fair
chance, yet it must not be supposed that his
own “grief and horror” at the disclosures
were exceeded by those of any one in the
community.
“Vic” : The Methodist Church in Victoria
advertises a fine property for sale at a sac-
rifice. This is the estate of Mintaro, at
Lancefield, 32 miles from Melbourne. It was
bought a number of years ago at the in-
stance of an enthusiastic man. Pastor Bick-
ford. who was very much interested in Girl
Reformation. To that purpose it was ap-
plied on a generous scale. The mansion is
one of the most luxurious in Australia, hav-
ing be<m built and fitted, reckless of ex-
pense, by a mysterious tar, Captain Gardner,
said to have been a whaler, or nrawner. or
sometoins’. Tho house is alleged to have
cost £26.000. It is an imitation of Mel-
bourne Government House, which in its turn
w *>s Wardell’s imitation of Osborne, in the
Isle of Wight. When Bickford died the re-
formatory business was carried on first by
Pastor Adamson, and since by Pastor
GOlocott. Fortunately, the supply of
reformatory girls has run out; factory de-
mand seems to have cut off the supnly. So
the Methodies lead their white elephant to
market.
Joseph Boyd, of North Melbourne, wan-
dered into the Victorian Divorce Court last
week and gut what be wanted. In 1905 he
married Evelyn. In 1909 she went north to
visit her mother, and after a reasonable in-
terval she left or proposed to leave for home
on the s.s. Bombala. Apparently there was
never any authentic record of her on the
Bombala, but she might be the casual, un-
booked passenger who flees on board at the
last moment, proposing to arrange for a
berth with the purser or chief steward, and
falls overboard before she has time to inter-
view anv responsible officer. Or perhaps the
fourth fireman recognised her as the girl
who had jilted him in early youth, and be-
coming a raving maniac on the spot, be-
auiiPd her downstairs to see the pretty coal-
bunkers. and then shoved her head first into
the furnace, and after that laughed a hor-
rible laugh and went away and joined the
Unitarian persuasion. Anyhow home never
saw her any more. Joseph, parents, and
have alike failed to find any trace
of her. Evelyn has become simply a name,
a mcmorv. She was divorced on the ground
of desertion, but. after all. it is ouite pos-
sible that she merely eloned with the Angel
of Death and fled to Asphodel.
HIS DESTINATION.
CONDUCTOR (to passenger who
does not offer to pay):
“ Here, come on, come on,
where are you going to? ”
BILL (from Way back): "Well, I'm gin' ter have tea with uncle, but I’m gotn ’ on ter
gran'mother's after.”
“Kodak” does a think: —
The suffragette cause can’t possess many human
catapults like Elizabeth Davison, who projected her-
self at the King's horse, and caused that shocked
Derby animal to somersault and drag his jockey by
the stirrup. The fanatical ■ worm-thrower and the
rustling tea-room incendiary only need to be chased
and firmly grasped; but the rare and bewildering
horse-charger, or female unmounted dervish, has too
much dash to be suppressed by- ordinary police brawn.
A LIMITLESS AMBITION.
Two Suffragettes attacked the Prime Minister and
other Parliamentary members on the golf links. —
Cable news.
LADY WOWSER: "Do nip you know what will
happen to you playing golf on Sunday T'
GOLF LUNATIC: “ Well, I may become a cham-
pion, or, who knows, even a Prune Minister
and be attacked by a suffragette .”
A flying column of Davisons would fairly sweep Lon-
don, until the word was flashed along, and they
could be headed down a broad thoroughfare to a
barricade of improvised bargain counters, manned
by bowing shopwalkers of the most elegant variety,
and piled high with insanely cheap treasures. Just
imagine the disorder it would create even in a steel-
willed suffragette’s mind, when she was keyed up to
shrieking pitch, to be courteously offered a real 20-
guinea Paris hat for fid. ! Why all the fuss, and
riot, and panic would be over and done with by the
time she had wrenched her old tile straight, told
the shopman that he was a contemptible wretch, and
warned him on his life not to deliver the purchase
at the wrong address.
* * * *
The reverse of “Chinaman’s luck” attaches
to the pistol with which young man Chia
thought of murdering the Chinese Consul in
Melbourne some weeks ago. Chia’s connec-
tion with the weapon cost him his liberty.
Constable Calwell, who
arrested him at the
consulate, picked up
the revolver and ap-
parently kept it. He
soon got busy with his
new toy. When he
saw a man running
away from a suspici-
ous-looking melee in a
Melbourne street he
fired at the fugitive,
and missed him. The
incident was officially
ignored. Next time Cal-
well discharged his ill-
fated firearm it went
off in a struggle at
the Police Barracks,
where the awful young
man had been threat-
ening to “blow out the
brains” of a brother
John. The career of
the next person who
carries Chia’s auto-
matic shooter will be
watched with interest.
The Chinaman who
purchased it at a shop
is doing three years
for firing it at another
Chinaman, and the
Hop who took the
darned thing into cus-
tody has been dis-
missed from the force
and otherwise dealt
with for having
pointed it at another Hop.
Adelaide is the one city in Australia
where you don’t rub your eyes when you
drop on such a notice as this at your break-
fast :
The Friends of the late Mr. ETCETERA are in-
formed that his REMAINS will be Cremated at Hest
Terrace Crematorium on SATURDAY, arriving at
11 a.m. DITTO & SON, Undertakers.
So Adelaide leads Australia in another re-
form. And in another 20 years, being by
that time still more sensible, it will have
left off inviting its friends to drop in and
enjoy a morning of damp wretchedness at
the cemetery. It will perhaps still announce
briefly that it is dead, but its widow and
orphans will buy bread and butter and an
extra winter blanket with the couple of
pounds it now wastes on a procession of
funeral advertisements.
DIRGE OR WAIL (JUNE 11, 1913).
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Weeping skies and a wild, cold wind,
And my best umbrella gone ;
The week's work hopelessly behind,
And my brain like a sodden scone.
Fresh from a dripping, draught-swept tram,
With pains in my back and head,
I shut my office door with a slam,
And envy the peaceful dead.
Hundreds of cares and aches and ills
Have harassed me all to-day,
And now my cup of anguish fills —
I’ve the income tax to pay !
N.S.W
10-2-4.


Wilds Hairdressing Rooms, 30 Upstairs,
Sydney Arcade, George and King Streets, Sydney, is
the proper place to go if you want the best of atten-
tion. Electric head and face massage done in the
latest American style. Hours of business: B.SO to
6.30; Saturday close at 1 o'clock.*
©Sf
&
@5?
®ST
w
© c u a
&
©‘u 3
;-ar
J
IMK
Plffi
X
O.T. Improves all Drinks just
as Sauces Improve Food.
WARM MUFFLERS
For Evening Wear or Motoring.
Protection from the chilly winds is amply
afforded for the throat and neck by these
Mufflers, which are soft and warm in tex-
ture, and very refined in finish.
ALL WOOL KNITTED MUFFLERS,
White, with fringed ends,
5/6, 6/6, 9/6, 10/6.
CAMEL HAIR SHADE, with fringed ends,
7/6, 8/6, 10/6.
ALL SILK SCARVES, in White, Navy,
Brown, Grey, and Amethyst 14/6
Men’s Wear Catalogue on request.
Peapes & Co. Ltd.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309 & 311 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
hfg
5/6
to
14/6
, T , hay are a Practical people, those Maori-
The Pahiatua branch of their
other n il! ■ lts , an , n V al son g- a nd-dance the
the L r Sht U and , holdin * on to the train of
mtii a s‘? Z on the Programme, was this
notice— Farmers, you can secure a rebate
it 1 i’f 0- , on , your manure by purchasing it
through the local branch of your union.”
*** ' *
From the Oldest Inhabitant
Theatrical history in Melbourne is repeating itself
Anangements have been completed by J C Wit-
■amson, Limited, for the erection of a new theatre
flatp th stenheni r t of t J °nsdale-street and Exhibition-
L at he Ste s« f 6 n eet . new house win be built
?P « “t® , of Howe’s Circus, which was there in
a e ? rst . 50 son that same site. In 1855 G V
Brooke in the presence of a great crowd, laid the
Pot” da oV°mn^ tone of n Co PP in ’s Olympic—the “Iron
f\. °t long ago. By a coincidence, the architect
of the new J.C.W. theatre was born on the'night of
the opening of the Olympic. His father (William
Pitt, scenic artist, a facial replica of William Shak-
speare) kept the Olympic Hotel, which was a part
°w thG ,m eat T re 9° rner - The Olympic had many lives.
Wizard Jacobs opened it, Brooke being engaged
elsewhere. W hile Coppin and Brooke were in part-
nership, it was not used for dramatic purposes ; but
when the dissolution came, Coppin reopened it with
Falconer s play, “Extremes.” Subsequently Coppin
established Turkish baths there, and, later on, the
German Club leased the place. Fire ended its
, a . nd ° n the ruitls “Bohemian” Cole estab-
bshed birnseif with horsey drama. Mclntosh, of
tne stadium, had an option over the corner but
could not induce the authorities to consent to the
erection of a boxing hall. J.C.W., Limited, is said
to have given £lO,OOO for the property. Its first
owner was William Sharpe McLeaV, of Sydney, who
gave £<6 for the half-acre in 1839. He was the
son of Alexander McLeay, onq-time Colonial Secre-
tary in Sydney under the Imperial regime.
SOMETHING TO WAG.
JOHN: “Nature makes no mistakes? Rubbish!
She robbed woman of a tail and left her a
tongue. ”
THE TURN OF THE TIDE.
Marriage and birth statistics of Victoria for 1912 were most satisfactory. —Daily payer.
Momba is in the market, and anybody
who wants to throw out his chest and say
he owns the biggest station in N. S. Wales
can have that joy—if he has enough money
to buy it. There is a mere trifle of 1,600,000
acres left now. There was a time when the
holding ran to 2,000,000 acres; but selectors
have had their cut, and when the Western
selector cuts, 10,240 acres drop off, as a
rule. Still, with the selections cut out and
the White Cliffs opal fields shorn off, there
is enough left in Momba to make another
Devonshire, or three Surreys and a half; or
you could drop the whole of the province of
Otago (Maoriland) into it; and Denmark
could be accommodated inside and space
enough left for two-thirds of Switzerland.
If anybody doesn’t want to feel cramped,
and has a quarter of a million or so lying
idle, there isn’t any place in N. S. Wales
The Bulletin would sooner recommend
than Momba. And when one has bought it
he can amble into Wilcannia on one of the
station camels and get lashings of excite-
ment by seeing the coaches lurch in from
Cobar and Broken Hill twice a week.
A pretty legal knot in maritime
law is to be untied in Fiji over
the American schooner Lyman D.
Foster. The L.D.F. was bound
for Australia from the Pacific
Slope with 700,000 ft. of timber
when it butted a hurricane and
went ashore in the Lau Archi-
pelago, near Fiji. The crew
escaped in the boats, and reaching
Suva, reported a loss of vessel
and cargo. A few days later, a
small coasting boat sighted the
wreck, plucked it off the reef and
towed it safely into Suva, under
the British flag. When the
American skipper saw with
amazement his vessel safe in port
he was slightly aggravated, but
when he spotted the Union Jack
where the Stars and Stripes used
to be he felt like a mad Injun
feels between drinks. To save
him from apoplexy the Customs
authorities pulled down the
British flag, but olaced the vessel
under arrest pending a legal deci-
sion on the question of salvage.
The skipper of the schooner ex-
plains that he left his tub on the
reef while he went to Suva for
shelter and offers of towage; so the
Admiralty Court has some choice yarn to
unravel and may expect some tall swearing.
The reformed Young Turk movement
leads to much unsuccessful war and much
successful assassination. Two grand viziers,
reckoned to be the two best soldiers that the
falling Unspeakable possessed, have gone in
quick succession. Mahmud Shevket, who
was supposed to rank very high in a mili-
tary sense, even according to European
standards, apparently looked more like a
tunnel than a field-marshal when the ass-
assins had done their work. He was a reck-
less, casual man in a fez, and when he saw
half the road in front of him torn up for
repairs, and the rest of it blocked by another
motor-car, he didn’t turn his petrol vehicle
back and flee for his life, but went straight
ahead. Then a number of persons (accord-
ing to one picturesque account they con-
sisted of sundry gambling-house keepers
and a lame publican) put their heads
into Shevket’s car and filled him with shot.
The gambling-house keepers leaped for their
vehicle and fled, but the lame publican
didn’t leap with sufficient velocity, and was
left. lie was captured while trying to con-
ceal his “gun” down a drain, which seems a
foolish business, considering the scarcitv of
drains in Constantinople. There was at
least this much to be said for the late
lamented Shevket. He wasn’t a Turk, but
an Arab from Bagdad way, and the Arab is
sometimes threatened with being a gentle-
man—which is the sort of thing that seldom
happens to the Turk. The fact that one of
Shevket’s assassins was a lame publican
may possibly be quoted as an evidence of
the horrors of drink, but this is a matter
upon which it is difficult to offer an opinion.
One of the strangest features of all the
current Turkish rows is the complete efface-
ment of the miserable old Sultan, who was
dragged from the gilded prison he had occu-
pied for 30 years and ordered to adorn a
throne. Apparently nobody takes any
account of poor Mohammed V. The dogs
scramble over the bones of his inheritance,
and he says nothing. Wars come and go,
and _ provinces drop away, and armies
mutiny, and Grand Viziers are murdered,
and Mohammed, drivelling peacefully in his
’ oth year, doesn’t put up the semblance of a
kick. Apparently the Unspeakable is near-
ing his dead finish.
Those who hold Liberal views about the
mingling of the races should carefully study
the sombre story’ of Annie Sophia Gordon,
sentenced in Sydney last week to three years’
imprisonment for manslaughter. Sophia,
when sentenced, was 36 years of age, and
she had borne 11 children. She had wrecked
her life at the beginning by marrying a man
of color. He knocked her about so that she
left him and went to live with his brother.
He, too, knocked her about, and possibly by
this time she had got down so low that she
deserved it. They were described as living
a cat and dog life. The negro proposed to
end it by leaving her and taking his furni-
ture to his sister’s place. He and the sister
commenced to dismantle the bed, and the
woman who was to be left in the stripped
house picked up a razor that happened to be
lying handy and slashed. The negro stag-
gered outside on to the grass and quietly
bled to death. Prompt aid would have saved
him, but it is doubtful if his passing is a mat-
ter for public regret. Sophia’s career, after
becoming the slave and chattel of two black
brothers, seems to have been a patchwork of
wallopings, drunks and baby-bearings, with
a background of general Sheol all the time.
From this paper’s Military Historian :
As far as I can trace in the records, Sydney has
been bombarded only once. The Are was from a
ship called the Three B.’s—so named from the initial
letters of the three owners’ names. The vessel caught
fire while moored in Sydney Harbor, and when it
was known that there was a loaded cannon on deck
there was a great scare. Governor Macquarie took
charge, and ordered various people; —among them
Dean Cowper, then a child—to flee into the bush
for safety. The charge did eventually explode, the
ball fell harmlessly in Br dge-street, and the future
Dean crawled out from his hiding place.
In the Perth City Council last week two
votes were cast for this motion:—
That the time has come to cease the practice of
supplying spirituous liquors ad lib. to councillor*
unless at their own expense, and that the money
thus saved, estimated at £4OO a year, be expended
on urgent works.
The time seems nearly ripe for dividing
drink-per-head statistics into two sections:
(1) Aldermen; (2) All others.
THANKFUL FOR SMALL MERCIES.
FIRST SYDNEY CITIZEN (during a slight ease-
up on the part of the elements): “Rippin'
fine weather this, after mouths of rain,
ain't it? "
No one save an editor knows the full pre-
cariousness of the editorial job. For in-
stance, the Sydney E. News last Monday
had three huge head-lines about a
divorce case, one of them reading, “Popular
Actress in the Suit.” Now if, while the
editor’s attention was otherwise engaged for
a moment, the compositor had made it read:
“Popular Actress in the a
whole life-time of hard work and honest
endeavor would have gone up in the smoke
of derision and come down in the ashes of
contumely.
BALLADE OF THE PETTICOAT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Councillor Crespin said that he would not be sur-
pnsed in a few years to see girls walking down the
street in tights. It was unfortunate that the good
old petticoat had been done away with.— Daily
paper.
Encased in her narrow, silken sheath,
Gripping her tightly around the hips,
Nothing to hamper her underneath,
On high-heeled “patents” the Block belle trips.
Fine is the shape that is thus revealed,
Great is my joy as each curve I note;
Little there is from the view concealed —-
Oh ! for the glimpse of a petticoat!
We still get a sight of silken hose,
Neat are the ankles displayed to view;
Oh ! but its odor has left tfie rose,
This is a matter I needs must rue.
Where are those furbelows, fresh and sweet,
Whence Saracenical perfumes float,
Filling with fragrance the dusty street?
Oh, for the scent of a petticoat!
Gone all the delicate lingerie,
Silenced now its voluptuous speech,
Like the lap of the amorous sea
Kissing its lover, the brown-limbed beach.
Vanished the billows of silk and lace,
Whose rustling was as a siren’s note,
Subtle and sweet in its limpid grace—
Oh, for the swish of a petticoat.
L’Envoi.
Oh, for the lure of the lurking lace !
Oh, for its perfumes that cling and float!
Oh, for its swish in the crowded place!
Oh, for jthe thrill of a petticoat!
victoria.
HARRISON OWEN.


A MERE SUGGESTION.
YOUN G AUSTRALIA: “Neither of ’em can go his own way. Mow about the middle course?”


h
Don’t Trifle
with a Cough
TAKE
<&.
ANCier@mulsioN
fgh
Of Chemists, 1/3, 2/9 and 4/6-
There is positively nothing equal to Angier’s Emulsion
for ooughs, bronchitis and all chest affections. Not only
does it heal and strengthen throat and lungs, but it promotes
appetite, aids digestion and builds up strength. For upwards
of twenty years Angier’s Emulsion has been prescribed by the
medical profession and used in the hospitals. It is the standard
approved remedy for coughs, bronchitis and all lung troubles.
Send for free Sample; enclose 4d. postage and mention this paper.
ANGIER CHEMICAL. Co., 7 Barrack St., Sydney, N.S.W.
ft
THe World’s Best.
DAIMLER
MOTOR LORRY
Silent Knight Engine.
Shaft Drive No Chains.
fgh
SUNSHINE
Motor Cars P’t’y,
Melbourne.
Hugh V. McKay, Sydney &. Adelaide,
Sole
Agents.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
Weather Item from “ J.R.” : The Federal
Government has induced Professor Allen, of Mel-
bourne, to report on health conditions at Panama
for the External Affairs Department. The idea is
that a line may thus be got as to what to do in the
Northern Territory. One of the reasons why any
such information is more or less useless lies in the
fact that the climates of Panama and the N.T. are
quite different. F’rinstance, the mean temperature
of Northern Australia —summer, winter and annual —-
is lower than that of Panama. Also, temperatures
generally in the Southern Hemisphere are several
degrees lower, latitude for latitude, than in the
Northern. It was not necessary to go into elaborate
statistics to prove the deadliness of the Panama cli-
mate. Amiable innocents with very little experience
of the realities of life, and no outlook outside their
own narrow circle, like most of the Federal Mini-
sters, have let themselves be bluffed into believing
that all the places between the two imaginary circles
drawn on the surface of the terrestrial globe, and
called the Tropics, are exactly alike. Some of them
have made the voyage to Europe and back by differ-
ent routes, but they, seemingly, failed to notice that
there was any vast difference between the heat in
the Red Sea and that in the Pacific (say) about
Hawaii or Fiji.
“Snell” : His name was Danks. When I
first met him he had just entered into possession of
298 acres of so-called arable land at Back Creek.
The land of Mr. Danks was heavily encumbered with
rocks like bogged elephants, and monstrous gums
that stood over him in defiance, shaking curses from
their twisted limbs on his puny head. Danks was
sft. 4in., but he had a chest like an old colonial
oven, and a eye like a bit of bright steel.
He had also one axe much the worse for wear, one
hammer, one billy, two chops, and not a friend in
the world. He was grilling the chops on a bit of
wire. He offered one of them to me. He had made
a home for himself by splitting 20 slabs, and leaning
them against a tree-butt. This held his bed. He
had to sleep in a semi-circle, but Danks didn’t mind
that. I saw him again three years later. He now
had a four-roomed slab house neatly roofed with
shingles, a clearing planted with apple trees, and a
flourishing vegetable garden. He had two goats and
a cow, and a small sawmill, worked with a water-
wheel of his own contriving. He had about 50
acres rung and fenced, a flock of turkeys, and a
thriving army of hens. Danks had also a wife and
three children, two of them over five years of age.
I was not curious about the other things, but the
two elder children certainly excited some concern.
Later, Danks explained. A year ago, when married
and living in a bark humpy about as commodious as
a furniture van, he had adopted the two children of
Dan Hewitt, because Dan Hewitt was dead and
unable to provide for them. “Poor little beggars,”
Danks said, and confided to me that, as for himself,
he had never known what trouble was.
CONSIDERTION.
THOUGHTFUL AVIATOR (after the explosion):
“Look out below !”
“McNortli”: Touching on this black
tracker question. “Surveyor” (B. 3/4/’l3) in-
stances a case wherein Binghi did some “wonder-
ful” work — i.e.j followed a trail through scrub, a
maize patch, grass paddock, etc. There are any
amount of white men, stockmen, prospectors and the
like, in the North, who would have no difficulty in
doing that. A man can’t travel through scrub with-
DESCRIPTIVE.
YOUNG BILL : “Seen our cow about 'ere, Mister?"
M ISTER: “ What's your cow like?"
YOUNG BILL : “ He's all black, on'y he's got a white spot every now an’ agen."
out breaking twigs and branches, thereby leaving a
plain indication of his course. In grass his trail
would be there for all to see, whereas a track in a
maize patch would appear like a main road to a
bushman. Binghi’s abilities as a tracker—and there
are hundreds of him in his “raw” state in my
vicinity (N.Q.) —don't impress me worth a cent. He
very often goes near to losing himself in the bush
through inability to find his own tracks home again.
But he can put up a very good bluff, which accounts
for a great deal of the “wonderful” tracking. The
nigs “Surveyor” mentions as receiving £1 per week
and return fare to Cooktown on the expiration of
their engagement would, in many instances, soon
after their arrival home, be looking for a job on
some of the Cape York Peninsula cattle stations at
10s. a month, and considered dear at the price. My
impression of the present-day Binghi’s skill at track-
ing is that it is on a par with his skill at spear-
throwing, and that is, in round figures, nil.
Lecturing to Melb. University Science
Club, Dr. Harvey Sutton, of the Vic. Education
Department, asserted that, as a general rule,
persons with blue eyes loved, and, if pos-
sible, dwelt in the country, while those with brown
eyes mostly gravitated to the cities. He said an
examination of town schools would show a large
minority of blue-eyed scholars, while in country
schools he has found frequently but one in 20 and
even 30 brown-eyed. The deduction he makes is
that Australia should seek its immigrants, not from
the Cold Land cities, but largely from the heredi-
tarily blue-eyed races —Scandinavians, etc.—who, by
the way, are sea-lovers as well.
“0.K.” eloquently but on his own respon-
sibility :
Birth statistics for England and Wales show the
calamitous result of the diffusion of the Malthusian
doctrine in pamphlet form with which the late
Charles Bradlaugh and Mrs. Annie Besant, his dis-
ciple, thought to benefit struggling humanity. In
1873, or thereabouts, the Bradlaugh-Besant booklets
were scattered broadcast at a penny each. The pub-
lishers expected that the poverty-stricken millions
would buy these pen’orths of warning and instruc-
tion and immediately reduce, or stop, their output
of ill-fated infants. Within the 40 years since 1873
the birthrate in England and Wales has declined 40
per cent., and the loss of physique to the race as a
whole has been immeasurably greater. Bradlaugh
and the misguided lady dreamed of an increase in
the national health and vigor. The families of the
poorest and worst-fed classes were to be restricted,
whilst the progeny of the people in comfortable cir-
cumstances were to come along as numerously as
ever and help to improve the average physical and
intellectual standard of Britain’s sons and daughters.
What happened was the reverse of this expectation.
The hopeless, reckless legions of the unfit were
mostly indifferent to the Malthusian doctrine, and
the slums continued to be populated at the same old
rate. But the idea of restricting the number of
their offspring, as was done in France, appealed to
the understanding of the more “respectable” classes.
Where Malthus had published his views in vain, the
practical social reformers (as they thought them-
selves) with their instructive penny pamphlet, full
of matter borrowed from an American doctor, made
a lasting impression. The effect of their teaching
was to bring human fecundity into disfavor and
even ridicule, in the homes of young parents who
possessed the means to rear and educate healthy
children, whilst the “masses” for whom the danger-
ous teaching was intended, remained in ignorance or
received the gospel with derision. The very name
of the publication, which spread like wildfire through
England in the early 70’s of last century, is now
almost forgotten, but the perverted accomplishment
of its purpose is told to every old compatriot of
Annie Besant in the announcement that the English
birthrate has dropped to 23.8 per 1000. Mothers
of large families, nowadays, are either “titled
ladies,” who are expected to provide heirs to the
blessed dignity and estates, or careworn women
whose children are born to ill-nourishment and all
other ill-conditions of life. The sturdiest section of
the community grows proportionately smaller every
year. The plants have ceased to multiply, but weeds
are overrunning the ground. And amongst the
reasons suggested for this steady deterioration in the
average manhood of Britain, the publication of a
popular incentive to race-suicide, 40 years ago, is
never mentioned at all.
HIS SPECIALITY.
“ Wotto, Tapper! Seen yer at the darnce larst
night Howdjer git on?”
“ Oh, bit slow on the footwork, you know , but
just THE thing in the grapple!”
THE WINNING OF DOLLY WEST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was up the Gippsland district, at the “Saw
and Axe” Hotel,
That I heard the facts that go to make the present
tragic tale';
Charley Withers, the “commercial,” who knew all
the parties well,
Spun the yarn, while we discussed a glass of Michael
Hogan’s ale.
We were sitting in the parlor. Through the door-
way, in the bar
We could see a cove, whose face revealed the marks
of care and strife.
“It is awful,” murmured Charley, as he lit a bad
cigar,
“How a pretty woman’s able to mess up a fellow’s
life I
Ste that mournful-looking Johnny? He’s a victim,
poor old chap !
Tis the old yarn, slightly twisted ; pretty woman,
two fool men ;
She was Dolly West, the barmaid at the pub at
Fisher’s Gap,
And the blokes were Jimmy Webster and one Wil-
son, first name Ben.
“Dolly was a well-made damsel, with a wealth of
red-gold hair,
Which, I m free to own, looked splendid when it
caught the sunshine’s rays;
And her teeth were white and gleaming, while her
eyes were like a pair
Of blue lakes kissed by moonlight, and she had nice,
taking ways.
“Jim and Ben were timber-cutters, and, of course,
the poor chumps fell
Deep in love with pretty Dolly, like the lunatics
they were!
Girls were rather scarce at Fisher’s Gap, and this
one was a belle.
For a time she would not give a hint for which she
most did care.
r; : .
“Jim was very sliv and nervous—not a bit like slap-
s' up Ben —
,And he didn’t make much progress with his courting
of Miss West ;
Wheras Wilson had nice manners and the cheek, at
least, of ten,
And in time ’twas plain to ev’ryone the lady liked
him best.
“When he put the question to her Dolly readily
said ‘Aye.’
Bentio went about triumphant, shouting drinks for
all the boys !
Poor*'old Jimmy was downhearted, and expressed a
wish to die,'
lor a time we thought that he would lose his mental
equipoise!
“It was fixed that in December Ben and Dolly should
be- wed.
’Twas about a week beforehand that the forest fires
broke out.
Palls of smoke hung o’er the township, and by night
the sky was red,
And the settlers on the outskirts by the flames were
put to rout.
“The.‘Saw and Axe,’ though out a bit, seemed safe,
until the wind,
Of a sudden, changed to north, and then a mighty
sheet of flame
Raced Tike mad acj-qss the tree-tops, leaving blazing
trunks behind—
With a roar of rushing waters down \ipon the place
it came! ,
“In a trice it was enveloped! Was there anyone
: ii- inside ?
S jimmy Blair, the licensee ; his missus, Ada, and the
; rest
AJI were safe, as were a honeymooning Johnny and
his bride ;
But a look around the crowd revealed no sign of
Dolly West!
“Jim and Ben were on the scene, and towards the
pub they wildly raced,
But the latter stumbled backwards, scorched and
blinded; Jimmy, too,
Hesitated for an. instant, but he quickly turned and
faced
The spitting flames, with lowered head, and gamely
battled through !
“For hours, it seemed —a year—an age—the fire hid
him from sight!
Though ’twas really but a minute ere we overcame
our qualms—
When, all scorched and burned and smoke-grimed,
faint and reeling from the fight,
Jimmy staggered from that furnace, bearing Dolly
in his arms !
“Well, the wind dropped, and we beat the fire. When
Dolly was brought to,
Up she marched to Jim and kissed him, right in
front of poor old Ben,
Who was feeling mighty sore, and made a bit of a
to-do,
\\ hereupon the damsel turned ou him and ‘chucked’
him, there and then!
“Later on, she married Jim, and Benno vanished
from the Gap.
It seemed mighty hard on Wilson, for he had not
funked the fire,
But the smoke had knocked him silly ! He had tons
of pluck, poor chap,
But he’d rushed in where the blaze was worst, and
just had to retire!”
Charley stopped. I took a look at that sad figure
in the bar.
There he stood, upon his face the ruthless marks of
care and strife!
“\es, it’s rotten,” Charles commented, puffing hard
at his cigar,
“How a blanky fickle girl can spoil a blankv fellow’s
life!”
“V\ ell, the cove was badly treated,” said I, glancing
through the door ;
“Poor old Ben, he seems quite broken up. I really
pity him!”
“Hang it all, man; that's not Wilson!” broke out
Withers, with a roar,
“Ben is doing well in Queensland! That poor vic-
tim there is JIM l”
VICTORIA.
HARRISON OWEN.


k
y-r
fgh
SPORTING and MATCH
CARTRIDGES.
All component parts are manu-
factured and put together in
our own factory by experts
who understand just what is
necessary to give best results.
Wholesale only—
Scottish House, 90 William St., Melbourne.
Kynoch House, 277 Clarence Street, Sydney
THE VERY BEST THING.
“Some time back I had a severe cold and violent
cough/’ writes Mrs. Grace Harris, Ashbourne Street,
Voolston, Christchurch (N.Z.). “I tried several so-
called remedies without obtaining relief. Noticing
an advertisement on Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy, I
purchased a bottle, and it gave me immediate relief.
I consider Chamberlain's Cough Remedy the very
best thing I have ever come across.”*
e 2
The 1.0. A.
Australians should insure in
this Australian Company.
WHY?
Apply for Booklet Free.
The Insurance Office
of Australia Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Hobart, Perth, Rockhampton.
gf
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
hfg
TO
H.M. THE KINGL
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists*
SCRUBB & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb Sc Go. on each Bottle.
h
“ J.R.”: What rot these overseas com-
mentators on Australian affairs do talk, to be
sure! Thus Lovat Fraser, in a recent issue of the
Daily Mail (London). [N.B.— Fraser tore fever-
ishly through a small part of Australia three or
four years ago.] :
Australia, not Western America, will be the scene
of the next phase of the interminable conflict with
Asia. The entire population could, be comfortably
and prosperously established in the Northern Rivers
district of New South Wales.
The Northern Rivers district of ’N.S.W. is 150
miles long, by an average of 30 miles wide from
the coast to the crest of the dividing range, accord-
ing to Lyne’s Water Conservation Commission.
There are 45 millions of people in the Common-
wealth, and that would give more than 1060 persons
to each square mile of the generally rugged and
precipitous country in question. Foreign trippers
and so forth get a casual look from a motor-car
at the alluvial flats of the lower Clarence and
Richmond Rivers, and imagine they are a sample.
They should try the road from Grafton to Glen
Innes, Grafton to Armidale, or the track from
Kempsey to Armidale up Five Day Creek, and over
Guy Fawkes Mountain. I have ridden over all of
them, and I know\ There are others, too. There
is another road from Kempsey to Arm’dale —nearly
all side-cutting, and that from Port Macquarie to
Walcha, and the old bullock-dray road from Port
Stephens to Walcha, crossing the Barnard and Little
Manning Rivers 21 times in less_ than 20 miles,
through the Dark Entry, and up Hungry Hill —a
solid six miles’ climb, which the old bull-punchers
used to take two days over, double-banking the
whole way. There are patches of fertile soil here
and there, among the most desolate rocky mountains
imaginable, and in some of the most inaccessible gul-
lies there is alluvial gold to be had for the dig-
ging. But it does not begin to be the sort of
country that will support over 1000 human beings
to the square mile.
» * * ♦
Gouger: A fearless and capable navigator
is the coastal Binghi of Northern Australia, among
the countless reefs and rocks of the periodically
hurricane-swept seas. A log, burnt out with fire
and trimmed with a tomahawk, having a stout
sapling lashed five feet away from its side to act
as outrigger, to prevent capsizing, and about 20ft.
long, is the limit of Binghi’s Titanic. Half a dozen
men in one of these (a boat will carry 14 men, or
more if necessary) will paddle from the coast to
miles out of sight of land, visiting, in the bird
season, numerous islands, collecting the eggs that
lie in countless thousands on the beaches and among
the rocks. It is from these tribes that the boche-de-
mer boys are recruited, and better seamen and better
divers cannot be found the world over. The Bloom-
field River natives constantly replenish their larder by
turtle fishing, making for the open sea at night-
time. A couple of boys paddle the canoe, while two
others attend to the harpooning apparatus. The half
of the spear is of heavy wood, at one end of which
a hole has been burnt out. Into this is jammed an
iron spike, a foot long, the point very sharp, having
on it a single long barb. On the end that fits into
the spear-handle is a hole, through which is a long,
thin rope. When a turtle is sighted, the canoe is
paddled silently towards it. The native in the bows
takes sure aim, and launches the spear with terrific
force. The turtle immediately dives straight down,
pulling the spear head out of the loosely-fitting
handle, and leaving the two natives hanging on
grimly to the straining rope. Often a turtle grows
to a hundredweight, and more, and the fight that
such a shellback will put up on a moonlight night is
well worth a box seat to witness. The pace is so hot
that often the natives have to paddle strenuously in
the direction the maddened turtle is taking to pre-
vent their canoe being dragged to pieces. But the
turtle must rise to take in more air, and when the
canoe catches up to him, two of the boys jump into
the sea, turn him on his back, and lug him aboard.
That is h's dead finish.
SCO RN.
IMMIGRANT : “If ye be not more careful I
snail 'ave to punch yer faice, I shall."
NATIVE: “Or! right, Pommey, but mind yer,
if yer do, an’ I GET TO 'EAR OF IT, I'll
kill yer."
“Catamain” : It stands to reason that the
tubercular diseases must increase in the cow herds
owing to over-cultivation of the brutes to make them
produce milk in excess of a natural standard of flow.
This cultivation has been continued until only two
or three of the best milking breeds remain in prac-
tical use, and even these have had all but the most
prolific juice-producers eliminated. The whole aim
is to generate excessive milkers, and as the more
milk a cow yields the weaker she is physically, (can t
say the effect on her mentally), the time is ripening
when there won’t be a bull’s wife able to stand up
without a prop under each arm, with the result that
the mighty serious hold that tuberculosis has already
got on the goddess through inbreeding and
malnutrition will be increased. Incidentally, it is
generally overlooked that there is more danger to
human beings in the use of butter than the use of
milk. Milk can be boiled to a germ-destroying
degree, but butter doesn’t take kindly to boiling or
even grilling.
TWO OF A KIND.
DISMAL JAKE : “When I lost my wife I lost
my sheet anchor! ”
CHEERFUL IDIOT: “ Your she-tanker! What,
did she take to drink, too? ”
“Ginger”: I have heard many and
scornful aspersions cast at a recent aboriginally
anent a dingo pack rushing a Queensland hatter's
kypsv. I, for one, have no doubt of the veracity of
the reported item. Last Sunday in a Hay (N.S.W.)
pub I heard the paragraph challenged again, backed
with the assertion that the dingo was the most cow-
ardly mong’ on four legs in Australia. He certainly
slopes away to his lair when his belly is full, but
when he is hungry anybody can have my portion of
him. A pack of the brutes took after the Coolgardie-
to-Red Hill mailman one trip. He dumped the mail-
bags and put up the scorch of his natural life till he
got to the HiH. I was camped on Freestone Creek,
a few miles out of Bringolong (Vic.), when a pack
came and picketed the hut. Fortunately, I had a
rifle. Incidentally, I got enough skins for a dingo
rug before the secretary of the Wild Dogs' Union
declared the strike off.
S * * *
"S.S.S.” (from Papua) : Ivypa. the Kiwai
carrier, went kava-kava (mad) and sang at the
top of his voice for three weeks without stop-
ping. At the end of the second week he ran up
a cocoanut tree and hurled cannon-ball fruit at the
hospital orderlies who tried to entice him down.
For three days and nights he howled in the tree-tops.
The morning of the fourth day a police boy passed
up the hill track carrying a strange sort of snake
slung across a stick. Kypa saw it, slid down the
tree trunk, snatched the snake from the - astonished
and sedate old Samarai sergeant, and ate it raw.
Then he went on singing. I gave him everything
known to science that he would take to compose him,
and still he sang. Then I called Kukane, the chief hos-
pital orderly, into consultation. “Kukane,” I said,
“what fashion that, all the time sing; my head all
the same sore along noise.” Kukane saluted gravely.
“Sinabada,” he said, with dignified composure,
“more better I hit him along head.” Which meant
that, if I approved, he would slaughter him. I
called him off till all other remedies had been tried,
and one of the Ori-kiva boys, under a bond of
secrecy (sorcery being an indictable offence in Papua),
made a pourri-pourri. After that, there was a great
and abiding silence.
“Jack Moses”: I was yarning to the
trooper about the generosity of the Blokes of the
Outback. “This is how it is,” he explained.. “I had
a Cove in the lock-up here doing 48 hours, and had
introduced him to the wood-heap and an axe. He
was belting away when a couple of bushmen hap-
pened along, and asked me what the Cove was doing
it for. I explained. ‘What was the fine?’ asked one,
diving his fist into a pocket. ‘Ten bob,’ I told him.
‘All right,' he says, ‘here’s the dough. Drop the
sliprails.’ When I sooled the Cove out the Blokes
were waiting. ‘Whalcher,’ says one casually, ‘come
andhaveadrink.’ And, of course, the Cove did.
* * * *
Pick: Though almost upon the roof of
Australia —being situated some 60 miles, as the
aeroplane flies, north-east of Kosciusko the
Kiandra country holds more dampness than any
other place I have visited above sea level. On the
tops of the highest peaks
springs eject their icy
waters with a force that
sometimes spurts the
stream into the air like
a miniature fountain,
and on the lower lands
are the shaking bogs.
These quagmires, some-
times acres in extent,
are covered with a grass-
ancoated crust, about a
foot thick. Standing
thereon, with a few
steps of the devil’s horn-
pipe, a man can bounce
a bird off its nest at the
other end of the patch.
If a pole, or crowbar, or
any similar old thing be
shoved through the
crust, it will slide away
towards the centre of the
planet. And if a down-
country horse fools after
the enticements of the
greenery he makes a
sudden exit from the
landscape, although the
wild horses of those
parts gallop across the
bogs and jump the
waves created by the
vibration without break-
ing through. I once
saw a flock of fool
sheep, their fool shep-
herd and his foolish ass
of a dog wander out on
to the surface of a
Kiandra bog. The thing
nearly tipped up on
to its edge when the
last sheep and the dog
straggled aboard, and
most of the flock slid
back to firm ground.
But 200 of them went
over the upper edge,
and fell down into the
Nirvana of slush, and
the place that once knew
them knew them no more.
* * * *
A Melbourne bookseller recently got an
inquiry from the backbloeks for a Bible,
and inasmuch as the inquirer seemed to
suppose that it was a rare publication he
was in want of the bookseller wrote back
for more definite instructions. He thought
that his customer might be referring to some
rare edition, such as the Wicked Bible, or
the Breeches Bible, or the Treacle Bible, or
the Bishop’s Bible, or the Great Bible. How-
ever. the answer to his letter was definite
enough. The back-blocker wrote :
The old and new Testament, or Bible. I believe
God is blamed for writing it, but no one is quite
sure. The Labor Party’s law re signing articles was
not in force, unfortunately, when this particular
book was written. I hope this will be sufficient in-
formation for you.
The Odd-Jobber of Freetrade London.
Some extracts from the London Standard
about life in the world's great Freetrade
metropolis, where regular work is precarious
by reason of foreign imports, and odd-
jobbing is the order of the day :
It is the failure in life who has to fall back and
live on the earnings of the women, and when you get
down amongst the lowest strata of society the pro-
portions of failures amongst the men increases. Many
of the men never get a fair start. As boys they take
the first job that offers —usually one that leads to
nothing. Some of them are not strong enough to do
a day's work ; others have lost their character, but,
whatever be the cause of their failure, they are
sunk in hopeless surrender; all their pride has left
them, and there is not a spark of energy or spirit
remaining.
When the man is a failure the work of feeding the
family falls on the woman. There seems to be a
wider demand for female labor, but it is shockingly
paid. What they earn and what they keep a family
on is terribly small, but, such as it is, it is the
woman’s earning. There is factory work for them,
which sometimes keeps them employed till nine
o’clock at night, during which time their children
are crying in the streets because they cannot get into
their homes —the father possibly being employed dis-
cussing horse-racing outside the publichouse.
Home-work, making paper-bags, or washing up in
restaurants, are other sources of income for slum
mothers. They go on working when, by aU the laws
of nature, they should be in bed, and the result is
diseases which make every hour of their lives an
hour of torture. Their men-folk are just an extra
burden to their lives —failures who will never do any
good. Such men as get into trouble never seem to
rally, and they are dependent ever after on the earn-
ings of their wives and mothers. If they could only
get off somewhere else where their offence was not
known they might make a fresh start,,but they come
back to their old friends—their bad companions
and their wives have got to keep them
Not only in South London is the slum mother rh
breadwinner as well as the homekeeper. In some nf
those parishes which lie off the Harrow-road th
women are doing all the fighting while the men idl!
around the street comers until it is time to go hom
—to supper. “The slum husband,” said a curatT
experienced in rescue work, “has no sense of his re’
sponsibilities. The wife keeps him without question'
Of recent years it has become the recognised thin?
If the man does an odd job and earns a few shilling
that is regarded as his own pocket-monev—somethin?
for beer or betting. A woman takes a husband often
just for the sake of respectability, and, after that
she has got to keep him. Sometimes he mav ?n
along all right for a year or two, but, when unem
ployment comes, the wife takes on the work of earn
ing money, and the man rarely tries again
There was a man who had a job on the railways
for 17 years. He was convicted of stealing a packet
of cocoa, and imprisoned. That was five years aeo
and he has done no work since. His wife has joined’
the great army of earning-mothers, and has managed
to keep him going ever since. See the loafers stand
ing at every street corner. You could count a' hun
dred in a ten-minutes’ walk. Who mends and darns
and makes for them? Their womenfolk: Whv the
women clean their boots and make their beds’ am]
tidy up after them, and then go out and earn monev
to feed them as well. This lack of pride in the
slum husband is growing to be a serious thin? it
is wrecking the health of the women, for whatever
their courage, they are not built for continuous
work, and it is filling the streets with slum children
whose mothers have no time to look after them.”
»
Owing to the high price which anvthine
with a bit of fur on it is bringing, native
game in Tasmania threatened to become as
rare as green elephants. The last Tas-
manian Parliament, faced with this danger
passed a Bill to protect for 12 months
opossum, kangaroo, black swan, and a few
other fish. This law. having just come into
force, has produced the usual crop of letters
from “Struggling Settler.” “Cakeful
Cockie,” etc., which when carefullv
examined, seem to smell of the hand of skin-
buying storekeepers mostly. A Forestry
League is also trying to stop some of the
great waste of Tasmanian timber, and to
do something in the way of replanting.
These measures, of course, are driving the
usual amount of capital out of the
When, in 1804, Governor Collins was in
Hobart (which consisted then of half a
dozen wattle-and-daub huts, one weather-
board house, and a tent for the hospital),
he issued ordnances protecting the black
swan during the breeding season, and for-
bidding the cutting down of trees until they
had been passed by the Government
carpenter. He also, by the way. fixed the
rate of wages and the price of provisions.
Unfortunately, the Hobart Mercury was
not then in existence, so there is no record
of the way capital rushed for the coast.
Peaceful Geelong (Vic.) is disgruntled and
out of sorts. At the recent election it con-
founded itself by helping to displace Labor
representative Ozanne. and then giving more
votes to Labor candidates for the Senate
than to Fusionists; also by giving a majority
of affirmative votes to the Referenda pro-
posals. Rut that isn’t what is worrying it.
It has discovered that it is too moral —that
the common or pestiferous burglar, house-
breaker and petty lareenist avoids it as if
it were flat beer. It doesn’t want the
burglar or his friends, but it wants the
common or perambulating John, whom the
burglar makes necessary. Bendigo, it seems,
requires 21 policemen to keep it in order,
and Ballarat needs 22, whereas Geelong, with
much the same population, has but a paltry
nine. Wherefore, Geelong deputationised
John Weary the other day, demanding to
know what he meant by this "injurious dif-
ferentiation?” as Bruce Smith said when
the railway refreshment-room handmaiden
gave him one large sausage, while the farmer-
passenger got two small ones, which, in the
aggregate, represented 25 per cent, more
sausage. Wdiary said Geelong ought to be
proud of its notorious absence of crime: and.
instead of giving it more, he had half a mind
to take some constables away, seeing that
wickeder parts of the State were very short
of them. Having thus failed to get its new
uniforms. Geelong isn't sure whether it hasn't
made a fool of itself. The modern criminal
is a discerning animal, who reads the
papers, and he will now doubtless visit
the moral town, and spy out its nakedness—
and when he departs it will be more naked
than before. Then it will want police in
dead earnest, and they won’t be any use
when it gets them.
[F. C. Jones, Elgar-road. Burwood, Victoria.]
“Briner” writes
First, as- stated in The Bulletin, some captains
and such-like would not apply for the permanent job
of chief lighthouse expert because Brewis, hitherto
the Department’s adviser, was sure to get it- Th en
Brewis turns rusty, and won’t go in for the billet,
because the screw is not enough. Tudor will not
“spring,” and Brewis explicitly declares he is not a
candidate. Whereupon Tudor notifies the vacancy
afresh. But what's the next move? An announce-
ment that Brewis finds circumstances have arn-en
which allow him to apply on Tudors iBOO nvm>-
mum. So he stalls off the second competition. 1 or-
is fast and loose, not bonnie at alll will not g 1
further than to say it looks like Bluff. I can t help
the tip that it goes to Brewis, but, all the same,
would like, if possible, to see a better than Brewi-
drop out of a waterspout. And there may be such a
one. There’s Commander Glennie, for instance, wn
has just paid off H.M.S. Skylark. He has. in cone
mand, circumnavigated and surveyed practically w
whole Australian coast in the past 12 years— a *n-
tling good man. It must have been his modesty, _
else esprit de corps that kept him from applying t ■
this billet. Glennie, by the way. Js married to
Queensland lady, and intends to return to Austra '
(he is on the way to England now) on his retireme. .-


TV& >?re /’/t/A ~rt> yrt** r-y ‘sstrp-
&Ti t-rt v tmr+ii'trcftK-
teA+A >FJS}ArHKA »f-rj frA/mri TXof I rm&M
t,,nc eyA erHrt*s»/rrttrr rryrAht yr-rtr* *
A a/,* i< e/k* rn* >’r~r<*n' is t >€?•*•#*> *ov«t
*//A tee km /va> >A > ~rtA ufc/iref u .
f-at<AfKrtvJ 0 -rero/nt e A camcm
en" -ffk*e+jstja yKrim ~r v ye a u
fcAtcet*A«r.\ncA rr-oMt rr 6Tn>
A.Hnt-jayjn»i'~r*/cAtJt<k4>x r/<AJ ynrAntrrtAr
y-rio-r*tJt A~j \tJAjJrc~rns okihf utwAYn*
r rutnnUxy-fAjt-tA m -OAyrA ytittsOsf*^riats
r^yoyH'A'r'AAAßmyAtxyyiAktfkt am
yet y- r~* As t eA‘ * Ayf-at/ray-ff'tsA n<Atqry
t./ttue*A*t FfeetktoffAFret- tyu?X‘<* HAJ*
jccr»cr-t*satrrtf+rc A r>t -yet tryt tret 1 - A lift”
TAi* r *f* a cTt+i>A6e7**~ , t J 'e* ,r
rATAWA A KKArrrrt t / aAA\A t«a kajY
n ffusts e-rvMAAtA.fr' •1 rAhtrutt Ifts.fr l oa*t
f tr#A MAT«« 'WAYft 9 ry f t<r fc/t*"-
A Xtteyt t*\*s !<A.tw iter rrAnJAfrrtru ttits
Tma. yt tt/Ft-t ~n*t« Yj'Ass «</ ttst/et m I<a / A
't-'Aft vm rttfA tie £ ' ATfcytsttcA
/ KKftft>f.JaxtHifisft'ikl AAAA /t apr y& fit
■ye cA:c~ratJt<orMf wAr?/ ts
7»V YA/rrA. r/i A 7 tfft outrrCY
IACKA/a A rrnt 6£U'r*<f&ttt S~f*J oA PA
sne rrt t a tt*A/AHfiAffr *yxxA^a»t r'£'r»J •
aa r-7 vtam rsyrA
Kof oytt tr f'fti'AS ri***s/s etAA‘r**~* *y
V very ancient Scripture lias Iwn
disriwreil in Kjtypt. It contains >i\
entirely new veiAies,.shown above. They
«'■« believed to embody b.e Cook's
policy.
THE BALANCER.
JOE: "'Eavens! Me troubled past is a mere nothink t' these 'ere anxious times."
[Drawn by Livingstone Hopkins (“Hop”), of Raglan-street. Mosman. adjacent to the sacred edifice.]


AFTER OTHERS FAILED.
“I use Chamberlain's Pain Balm for a sore throat,
and have always found one rubbing to cure it," writes
Mr. T. Dennis, Hihitaki (X.Z.). “It worked won-
ders when I sprained my ankle, giving me immediate
relief from pain after other liniments had failed. I
also recommend Chamberlain's Pain Balm for rheu-
matism, it having relieved me many times,’’*
AN EFFECTIVE REMEDY.
Pills are a most effective rentedv foe
cleansing the blood, thus removing the cause of
pimples, blotches and other blemishes. Price, IOJd.
and Is. 6d. Obtainable everywhere.*
Martin s Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. Ladies recommend
them. Be sure yon get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist. Southampton.*
GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
F or
QUALITY.
HATS.
F or
DURABILITY.
“Bilijim” (Bi lletin' 5/6 'l3) thought the Sy*j*
my people lacking in manners because they
at meals. Was in a country hotel, at the “tuner-
table, not so long since, and all the couversati
was monopolised by one old farmer, who kept com
stantly talking on the subject of wheat sacss. >
and again he'd strike the upper register, and
would hear, “Smith’s sacks are great! 1 . *
sacks are scientifically graded,” etc. I ~
waitress to inform me of the reason of the
chap's excitement. “Oh !” she returned, "that >
farmer Smart. He made a fortune out of his 1 •
and he reckons that Smith’s chaff and wheat - -
are real money-savers, and recommends all tar '
to consult them.” S. SMITH 4 CO., LTD.,
Specialists, Sussex Street, Sydney.*
PERSONAL
ITEMS
One vanished Liberal, who will be little
regretted, is the ill-tempered Hedges, of Fre-
mantle (W.A.). Hedges staggered hu-
manity, in a manner of speaking, when he
defeated Carpenter, in 1906. by 169 votes.
He roused suspicions of lunacy' on the part
of the electorate when he won. in 1910. bv
nearly 1300 votes. But, in 1913. he has
fallen heavily, and Burchell’s victory runs
to some thousands of votes.
[James Edmond, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
PROFESSOR
BALDWIN
SPENCER ,
Victorian Aboriginal
Authority.
From an old Victorian pressman in
London: —
Died in London, at 80, David Boswell Reid, long-
time surgeon of Geelong Hospital. He built up
there a big reputation as a successful operator, and
cases came to him from all parts of Australia.
Originally he worked his passage as an ordinary
sailor from London, and was actually wearing sea-
man's rig when he appeared before the committee of
the Geelong Hospital. Some of them thought he
must be a fraud or a humbug, but his diplomas and
qualifications were of the best, and they decided to
give him a trial. He soon made good.’ Unluckily,
he went into the wool business with the Synnotts, a
family into which he had married, and a great mon-
etary burst ensued. That drove h ; m from Australia,
and he took an appointment in a West End (London)
hospital. His father was the supervisor of ventila-
tion of the British Houses of Parliament: and when
the subject cropped up again, the son gave evidence
before a Parliamentary committee, of which another
old Geelongite, J. F. Hogan, was a member. A son
and daughter of Dr. Reid went into the London
music halls, and under the name of "Paul and Vir-
ginia,” did a pretty good turn.
McGowen, who partially scuttled from
N.S.W. Labor Premiership last week, was
leader of the party 22 years ago, but Holman’s
story to the Herald, that "Jim” had had an
"uninterrupted leadership for 22 years,”
doesn’t quite fit the facts. Things were mixed
in the Labor party of 1891, and the roll
was never quite the same two weeks run-
ning. The party was supposed to be 36
strong at the start; but there was a time
when it got down to 16 or 17. It was at
this low-water mark that McGowen was
elected leader; but when, after a few weeks,
the split was glued up, it was on the under-
standing that Joe Cook should lead. W.
H. Sharp, from the Government Printing
Office, was the first chairman of the Caucus:
and he, with McGowen, J. D. Fitzgerald
and Gough (presently succeeded by Cann),
were the first committee, with Houghton
as secretary. There was no leader then or
for some time after. At the 1894 election
Toe Cook ran as an Independent- Laborite, so
McGowen was elected leader once more;
and he has had the job ever since. Of the
men who attended the first caucus in ’9l,
Arthur Rae. Edden, McGowen, Cann, A. J.
Kelly and George Black are still in politics,
but McGowen, Edden and Cann are the only
ones who haven’t dropped out for a while.
Holman, the new Premier, didn’t arrive till
1898.
Alban Hill, who has been most things in
the Commercial Bank of Australia, definitely
retired from the service lately after 31 years’
strict attention to business. After keeping
him for many years at the weary job of
taming the wild cats that the busted boom
left on the head-office premises, they made
an inspector of him, and then turned him
into chief manager in X. S. Wales, with
head-office in the lobster-salad building in
George-street. There or somewhere the
damp got into his bones, and rheumatism
tortured him into taking long leave, with a
regretful retirement at the end of it. Quit-
ting Sydney, he has settled down at Malvern
to take as much ease as the little devils in
his blood will allow him. If he shifted his
camp to Longreach. in Middle Queensland,
which is mostly inhabited by cured rheu-
matic patients—it was the boiling bore
water which cured them —Alban Hill might
wake up and start a new bank.
‘L mfaan" : A good Australian
is painter H. S. Power, a Vic-
torian domiciled in England for
purposes of tucker, and now in
the land of his birth for the pur-
suit of holiday and to paint a real
Australian picture for the London
Academy. He is son of old-man
Power, the Victorian artist of 87.
still coloring canvas for a liveli-
hood. but thinking of retiring
shortly. Power believes that Aus-
tralia is the best country in the
world for an artist to work in. but
alas! not to sell in. Speaking of
Australians working at the other
end. Longstaff, he says, has ex-
celled himself this year, sculptor
Parker cuts ice whenever he chips
marble, and Fred Leist is looked
the youngster with the brightest
upon as
prospects.
Amongst the string of old identities of
Maoriland who have been harnessed up
lately for the Home Station was Archibald
Kelly, who was one of the first Presidents
of the Australasian Institute of Marine
Engineers. He first sighted Australia’s shore
aboard the celebrated old Stormbird. in 1854,
out from Scotland to Melbourne. Proceed-
ing to Auckland in the Wonga-Wonga. he
remained three years, returned to Australia
and. throwing in his oil-can and spanner,
went off in search of the gold he never
found. After pursuing it for four years he
turned back, hunted up the oil-can and
spanner and tramped the seas again for a
couple of years. Thenabouts he joined the
Maoriland Government Service on the Wai-
kato River during the native troubles. After
that, the Panama Co., M.L. Shipping Co..
and others. He was 77 years old when
Death rang down. “Stop !”
Acting Premier Weary sent a thrill of
satisfaction through the Melbourne press
last week with a notification that his friend,
ex-policeman O’Callaghan, had written him
from Fiji to say he was enjoying his trip to
America. Melbourne also is feeling be L
for it, so everybody’s happy.
THE LISP OF THE JEW.
[For The Bulletin.]
Then the Cabineth broke up.
—lnspired mistake made by a daily paper.
The shadow of Israel is dark on the land,
And the sign of its pawnshop is glowing;
The N'oses have sniffed at our good note-of-hand,
And we’re not very sure where we're going.
We’ve a dim sort of feeling that all is not well—
That Calamity’s trotting behind us:
Still we're shuffling along, though no prophet can tell
Where the cold light of morning will find us.
We’re privately sober and publicly drunk
With regard to financial transactions;
Our Governments all in the loan-cup are sunk;
’Tis the vice of all parties and factions.
Ministerial tankers filled up with gold wine,
E’en the national credit are shaking;
And an echo we hear of a lisp and a whine
When we read of the “Cabineth” breaking.
x.s.w. FOE.
CLEMENT WRAGGE'S LONG OVERDUE
DROUGHT.
(It struck Sydney last week.)
Four Labor members now obtrude them-
selves in Vic.’s unpaid House of Fat Land-
lords. Adam McLennan was the pioneer.
He has been obtruding for nine years. For
three years he obtruded on his lonesome ; then
W. J. Evans joined him. For the next three
years the tough job of presenting the Labor
case in the Freezing Chamber fell on these
two. Then, in 1910, J. P. Jones arrived.
Now Fielding has come from Footscray in
place of Minister for Works Edgar.
McLennan, the pioneer, is a wholesale meat
merchant: Evans, a tremendous worker, is
see. of the Vic. Loco. Engine-drivers’ Union.
MILESTONES;
Or the latest Fantoid produced by the last
bottle of the Great Election Booze.
Joseph TV illiam Robinson, of Broadford
• lie.), holds a record. A week or two
back he celebrated his 52nd birthday by win-
ning his 52nd lawsuit —a County Court
claim for £l5O, reduced to £97. Robinson’s
various and varied legal bouts with his fel-
low citizens, all of which he has won. have
occurred in Police, County and Warden’s
Courts. His long success seems to have
persuaded him that he is invincible, so he
has now announced his retirement —any-
how. until he thinks someone is presuming
on his sworn declaration of peace.
"Melb" among the house-knackers:—
As I write, there is being knocked down, in a
literal sense, a business place intimately associated
with James McCulloch, four times Victorian Pre-
mier. It is the old bluestone warehouse of Dennis-
toun Brothers, at the corner of King and Little Col-
lins streets. McCulloch came to Melbourne as agent
for this great Scotch firm. He soon became a lead-
ing man in the Chamber of Commerce, and Gov-
ernor Latrobe hooked him as a promising Torv
nominee for the old Legislative Council. When the
new Constitution came in 1856. Mac held subordi-
nate office in two Cabinets. The two Ministries of
Haines, the three of O'Shanassy, Nicholson's one,
and the one of Heales foHowed with dazzling cele-
rity—seven in about seven years. Then came the
first stable kind, the original Fusion, with McCul-
loch as Premier. Fellows was in it for a little
while. He, McCulloch, Higinbotham and Michie
were Freetraders. Francis and Verdon were Pro-
tectionists. Heales was taken in from the Demo-
crats. This Cabinet startled the countrv with a
10 p.c. Protective tariff, and the fat was in the
fire so far as Collins-street and “the Lane” were
concerned. Under Higinbothain's fierv impulse
McCulloch developed into an advanced' democrat,
but afterwards fell', away, under the influence of the
wife, Miss Inglis, who had been sent out to him
from Scotland.
One of the cleanest
men in Australasian
politics handed in hk
chip last week when
Arthur Robert Guin-
ness died. He was
Speaker of Mao rT
land’s House of R e
presentatives and the
father of the Parlia-
“ent: , H « commenced
the job of parliamen-
tarian in 1884 and
T onl - v once
—by death. After a
distinguished career on
the floor of the R Pps
he etected Speaker
m 1963, in succession
to Maurice O’Rorke
\\ ith turbulent per-
sonalities to manage
like Richard Sed-
don. Joseph Ward
"Tommy” Taylor’
George Fisher, James
Allen, John Duthie
and many less notori-
ous. Guinness was an
upright judge, as the
old phrase goes.
Peter Mcßride. Vic.’s
new Agent-General,
was greeted quite ef-
fusively by the ex-
tremely Radical press
on reaching London,
fine Socialistic paper
printed a quarter-page
picture of Peter in its
“R ebe 1 s’ Gallery,”
earn in g admission
theieto as "the man
who nationalised mines
in Victoria.” As a mat-
ter of fact, the solid, rather conservative
Scot did have a good deal to do with the
State coal mine at Wonthaggi: but his glum
expression when any general interference
with Private Enterprise was proposed,
earned him the title of "Blue Peter” in
Parliament.
The Fog is going to lose Will Dyson, the
Australian cartoonist. A Chicago paper
lately offered him £l5OO a year. “Bill"
wasn’t anxious to move on, so replied that
nothing less than an offer of “over £2000”
would bring him. According to a letter just
received by elder brother Edward, the “over
£2000” offer has come, and the Australian
takes the Chicago job at £2lOO.
S. Aus. Geographical Society has got in
hand about £2OO towards a memorial to
McDouall Stuart. There is already a statue
of him in Adelaide; the new memorial is to
be an obelisk on the spot
( Chambers Bay. Northern
Territory) where he struck
the northern sea after his
transcontinental march from
Adelaide, in April. 1862.
Dashwood. when Resident
at Darwin, found that the
tree “blazed” by Stuart had
been burnt down, so he put
up a post to mark the spot.
Mitchell, a later Resident,
found the post destroyed by
white ants, and fixed up s
steel rail. The present idea
is to send along a concrete
obelisk about 13ft. high. The
cost of transit must be
heavy, but the Australian
Government has promised
£2O towards that, and subscriptions have
come in so well that now a marble column
is talked of.
HARK!
The urgency of the North Shore bridge threaten?
to become the chronic cry of State political partie?
during the next election. ' Mr. McGowen. in reply to
a deputation, said: “It was true that every Govern
ment had promised that bridge. He had heard
Henry Parkes promise it 25 years ago.”
THE ELECTION
JACK-IN-THE-
BOX: “ They're
telling me the
old, old story. "
Dead in Adelaide, at 80, E. W. W ebb, one
of Australia’s most experienced journalists.
After leaving the London firm of Waterlow,
he and his brother were in the plucky syndi-
cate which, 60 years ago, ran the Melbourne
Age on co-operative lines, before Syme took
it over. Then he drifted to Adelaide Regis-
ter. but joined the Advertiser at its birth
in ISSS, and finished his career still on it-
Latterly he had lived on a well-earned pen-
sion from the Bonythons. In private life-
yachting —mostly with the late Judge Bundej
—was his chief interest. He never married.
A RANK OFFENCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
J. M. Barrie, creator of “Peter Pan,” has beer,
lowered to a baronetcy. —News item.
The lights of fairyland are burning low :
The camp fires of the Redskins pale and die;
The kiddies sad to Mother Wendy go
To find out why
They now must walk, where once they used to
fly!
The crocodile ticks slowly while it weeps
Tears insincere, and seeks for tasty bits
Of Hook, who, caring not how close it creeps,
In silence sits;
His dear infinitives no more he splits!
Hushed is the merry voice of Tinker Bell,
And in the tree-tops Peter’s silent, too,
There’s something wrong, I’m sure, for, sad to tell,
The pirate crew
Seem ordinary blokes, like me and you !
Alas! they now are calling Barrie names!
Dazed by the gaud, his pen he slowly plies,
And ev'ry time a fool remarks, “Sir James,”
A pained world sighs,
And somewhere, I feel sure, a fairy dies!
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


5814
I,
1
V 5
II \h
mu
? 0 uo
V/ /(
j, * 1> ■' V< »• N
toll
ft
fc\\\\
\\\W\
Pull . for the. shore. . Lads
Pull hard for the
The ships , Run -
shore .
OUT OF
/
NAVY
cur
rOBACCO
'BUCK-UP’ AMD GET SOME MORE
THAT connoisseur in pipe smoking,
the sailor, knows but one tobacco—
n Capstan." And he seeks no other, finding,
in the rich full flavour, coolness and
delightful smoothness of this favoured
smoke, the utmost pleasure that the pipe
can bring.
THREE STRENGTHS—MILD, MEDIUM and FULL
la loz. 2oz. and 4oz. PATENT AIRTIGHT TINS
May also be obtained in Plug Form.
Famous
Brand of W. D.
& H. O. WILLS
The
LM N
PIPES
400
DO NOT CRACK OR BURN.
I
'
Guaran,^
35 £&&&«
:-■* g?3S*Sg
> ■i'-V '
79?
SMI
ilia
at


WORTHINGTON PUMP COMPANY LTD.
PUMPS-STEAM, AIR or MOTOR DRIVEN, CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS
CONDENSERS and COOLING TOWERS. GAS and OIL ENGINES and
GAS PLANTS. MINE VENTILATING FANS, AIR COMPRESSORS
FEED WATER HEATERS & PURIFIERS. OIL & STEAM SEPARATORS
For Catalogues and
Information apply—
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY
Steam Turbines coupled to Dynamos, Alternators, Pumps, Blowers, Fans, etc.
The Original Inventors of Parsons’ Type.
C. A. PARSONS g CO.. Newcastle-on-Tyne,
HAVE SUPPLIED OVER 60,000 B.H.P. OF TURBINES IN AUSTRALIA ALONE.
8ol« Australasian
Agents—
WILLIAM ADAMS (&. COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Pertiv
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The National Bank of Tasmania
'Launceston, Tas.)
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
May, 1905..5291 6 p.c. = 4789 502 33,370
Nov., 1905.. 5752 6 „ „ 4789 963 34,333
May, 1906.. 5696 6 „ „ 4789 1000 34,240
Nov., 1906 6249 6 „ „ 4789 1460 35,700
May. 1907.. 9077 7 „ „ 5587 3490 39,190
Nov., 1907..8570 7 „ „ 5587 1000 1983 41,173
May, 1908 8793 7 „ „ 5587 1000 2206 43,379
Nov., 1908.. 8464 7 ~,, 5587 2877 46,256
May, 1909.. 8288 7 „ „ 5587 2701 48,957
Nov., 1909.. 7647 7 ~,, 5654 1993 50,950
May, 1910 ..8115 7 ~,,5654 2461 53,411
Nov., 1910.. 8058 7 „ „ 5654 2404 55,815
May, 1911.. 8127 7 ~ ~5587 2540 58,355
Nov., 1911.. 7110 7 ~,,5587 1523 59,878
May, 1912 .. 8828 7 „ „ 5587 1000 2241 62,119
Nov., 1912..7906 7 „ „ 5587 2319 64,438
May, 1913..8656 7 „ „ 5587 3069 67,507
The half-year’s profits were better than usual, no
doubt because practically everybody’s overdraft rate
went up simultaneously, whereas the rate paid by the
bank for deposits only advanced when the deposits
fell due. The time will come when the deposit and
overdraft rates will be hauled down again. Then,
maybe, the bank will have to charge lower rates for
overdrafts while still paying for a while the higher
rates on some deposits, and the profits will then be
as much under normal as for the past half-year they
have been above normal. Also, owing to the rule of
the Commonwealth Bank not to charge anything
for keeping debit accounts or accounts wh'ch are
£5O or more in credit, private banks are beginning
to have serious arguments with many customers who
don’t approve of the charge; and though, of course,
they will hang on to it as long as they can, they
are understood to be amenable to reason in the
matter. Which means that some at least of them
are foregoing the charge rather than lose a cus-
tomer. A lot of rubbish is talked and written about
this charge. Certainly it is absurd for a bank to
charge a customer 10s. a year for having the use
of his money, if you put it that way; but it is
equally absurd of the bank not to charge a customer
for, say, his cheque-books, pass-book, and other sta-
tionery. Also, the labor involved in keeping, say, a
sharebroker’s account is out of all proportion to the
value of the credit balances which some brokers are
alleged to maintain. So it boils down to this: some
customers pay far too much when they pay 10s. a
year, and some pay far too little; and common-sense
suggests that the charge should be a matter of
arrangement, as it now threatens to be. The
trouble from the banks’ point of view is that,
whereas they may get nothing in some cases, they are
very unlikely to get more than the old 10s. in any ;
and profits are not going to look any better in con-
sequence.
On one account and another, the National of Tas-
mania owes £685.264 to the publ'c, and it has
£203,262 in liquid shapes. This is 29 p.c., and
especially at a time like this, 29 p.c. is probably not
enough. Take the figures:—
May, May,
1912. 1913.
Notes in circulation.. £7,976 £5,317 Dec. £2,659
Bills, etc 14,114 29,932 Inc. 15,818
Deposits at interest . . 309,085 300,968 Dec. 8,117
Free deposits . . 330,845 349,047 Inc. 18,202
Liquid assets . . 231,836 203,262 Dec. 28,574
Advances . . . . 622,105 678,898 Inc. 56,793
Premises, etc. .. .. 28,825 28,238 Dec. 587
Deposits which may be called for to-day. or to-
morrow total £349,047 ; money in hand to pay it
with, £203,262. The balance is out in advances.
Possibly some of the advances can be got in quickly;
but it isn’t a satisfactory position from the stand-
point either of the depositor or of the borrower. A
gibe flung at the banks lately has been that they
haven’t lent as much as they could, and should, have
lent. In this paper’s opinion, this and a good many
other banks have lent too much. No doubt, given no
iolt of any sort, and always assuming that every-
body will keep his head, things are quite right,
because the bank’s own funds are equal to nearly
£1 for every £3 of the liabilities. Deposits, etc.,
are therefore well protected, provided the bank
never has to realise hurriedly. But it isn’t safe to
assume an eternal absence of alarms and panics.
* * * *
The Herald and Weekly Times, Ltd.
(Melbourne) :
Dividends.
Pref. Written
Profits. (6p.c.). Ord. Off. Deficit.
Mar., 1905.. £14,887 £3750 10 p.c. = £6250 £7Ol £155,542
Sept., 1905.. 15,306 3750 10 ~ ~ 6250 706 150,942
Mar., 1906.. 13,846 3750 10 „,, 6250 722 147,818
Sept., 1906.. 16,012 3750 10 ~ ~ fi2SO 724 142,530
Mar., 1907.. 15,600 3750 12 ~ ~ 7500 962 139,142
Sept., 1907.. 15,066 3750 12 „,, 7500 979 135,705
Mar., 1908.. 16,579 3750 12 ~ „ 7500 989 131,365
Sept., 1908.. 17,436 3750 12 „ ~ 7500 4085 129,264
Mar., 1909.. 15,485 3750 12 „„ 7500 1287 126,316
Sept., 1009.. 18,773 3750 12 ~ ~ 7500 1568 120,361
Mar., 1910.. 17,987 3750 12 „„ 7500 1338 114,962
Sept., 1910.. 20,870 3750 12 ~ ~ 7500 1403 106,745
Mar., 1911.. 20,868 3750 12 ~ ~ 7500 1376 98,503
Sept., 1911.. 20,699 3750 12 ~ „ 7500 1299 90,353
Mar., 1912.. 19,782 3750 12 „„ 7500 1282 83,103
Sept., 1912.. 23,077 3750 12 „„ 7500 1267 72,543
Mar., 1913.. 19,762 3750 12 ~ „ 7500 1260 65,291
The co. has been doing things lately, as this next
comparison shows: —
Mar., Mar., Mar.,
1907. 1912. 1913.
Liquid assets .. £54,637 £82,788 £85,940
Liabilities .. 2,289 8,607 27,065
Surplus of liquid
assets .. .. £52,348 £74,181 £58,875
Thus in 12 months the surplus of liquid assets has
been reduced by £15,306. But the money hasn’t
merely fallen through a hole. This table shows
where it has gone:—
Liabilities.
Sept., Sept., Sept., Sept., Mar.,
1906. 1910. 1911. 1912. 1913.
£ £ £ £ £
Sundry creditors 3,511 8,152 4,377 4,508 27,065
Assets.
Freehold . . 31,360 50,542 52,517 59,493 60,108
Machinery . . 29,319 26,660 24,597 24,926 58,561
Stock . . . . 9,400 14,631 14,013 15,153 18,415
Liquid assets.. 50,902 70,826 84,147 93,642 85,940
So in six months the machinery assets has sprung
from £24,926 to £58,561, the result of a new in-
stallation of printing gear at a cost of about £35,000.
Presumably the old plant will be thrown out of
commission, and the chances are that the greater
part of it will have only scrap value. Thereupon
the question arises whether it has been written down
sufficiently. If it hasn’t been, then the net profits
hitherto have been less than represented. This is a
pretty common trouble with machinery users. They
reckon on a plant running, say, 10 or 15 years, and
provide for replacement at that rate out of gross
profits. What they don’t provide for is the possi-
bility of having to throw out the comparatively new
plant much sooner and get in the very newest in
order to stave off threatened competition or meet
actual competition. In this case the competition
was only threatened. The Sun, of Sydney, talked
of going to Melbourne, and had some of the money
for the purpose. What it wanted as much as any-
thing was a Melbourne paper to share the cost of
its independent cable service. The Herald, finding
how the wind blew, offered to come in. It doesn’t
say what it paid for the right to come in, but in the
balance-sheet this new item appears—“ Shares in
other cos. at cost, £9500.” Probably that has some
connection with it; anyway, it was said in Sydney
that something in the neighborhood of £lO,OOO was
received by the Sun for organising the service. The
two cos. will “jointly control” the new service, and
the directors rightly think that this say in the cable
business is “essential in the event of having to
meet competition.” It is good to see the directors
thus expressly recognise the possibility of competi-
tion. In fact, competition is more than possible.
It is inevitable, if Melbourne keeps on growing. And
then time only will tell what the Herald’s good-
will is worth. At present it stands in the books at
£198,000, so that, though large profits have been
accumulated, there is still £65,291 of the capital
( £ 250,000) unrepresented by tangible assets, and
waiting to be made good out of undivided earnings.
The Perpetual Trustees, Estate and
Agency Co. op Maoriland (Dunedin) :
To Re- Re-
April, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1901 ..£1585 12* p.c. = £lOl6 £569 £2,642
1902 .. 1799 12* „ „ 1016 783 3,425
1903 .. 1359 12* „ „ 1016 343 3,768
1904 .. 2057 12* „ „ 1016 1041 4,809
Premiums on new share issue. . 1332 6,141
1905 .. 2302 12* p.c. = 1093 1209 7,350
1906 . . 2094 12* „ „ 1172 922 8,272
1907 .. 1817 12* „ „ 1172 645 8,917
1908 .. 2205 12* „ „ 1172 1033 9,950
1909 .. 2516 12* „ „ 1172 1344 11,294
1910 .. 2413 12* „ „ 1172 1241 12,535
1911 .. (2188 .15 „ „ 1406 782 \ 19Q17
'I Written off, £lOOO /
1912 .. 2343 15 p.c. = 1406 937 13,254
1913 . . 2032 15 „ „ 1406 626 13,880
The recent shrinkage in the profits is probably more
or less due to the fact that the co. gave up a fire
and marine insurance agency in order to stick more
closely to its proper trustee job. On the whole, it
is advisable that a trustee co. should be that and no-
thing else: there are few businesses that don’t carry
some risk, and the funds of a trustee co. shouldn’t
be risked in side-lines—the man who is making a
will and is appointing a trustee co. as his executor
should feel sure that the whole of the capital and re-
serves will be available as a fund guaranteeing the
right performance of his and other trusts. Still,
though the profits have eased off, they leave a very
fair amount to lay by after the thumping 15 p.c.
dividend is paid. For this result, however, interest
is more largely responsible than ordinary business
earnings. The latter are distinctly moderate: com-
missions last year amounted to £3669, while salaries
and other office exes., exclusive of taxes, ran to
£2589. It is the nearly 30 years’ accumulation of
surplus profits that gives the co. its present pull as
a dividend-payer. Capital on which the div. is paid
amounts to only £9375, while the total funds at
work for the shareholders are £23,255; and 5 p.c.
on that lot alone can pay a T2* p.c. div. As to the
nature of the investments, nothing of any conse-
quence can be said; £10,500 is vaguely described
as in “debentures,” and £12,223 is thrown into a
heap labelled “mortgages and leasehold and build-
ings.” Presumably the leasehold is being written
down, though there is nowhere any hint to that
effect.
The New York Life Insurance Co.; —
This mutual office still does a certain amount of bus-
iness in Australia, though the pursuit of policies has
eased off since the American law set a limit on the
amount of new business and the money to be spent
in getting it. While the grossly exaggerated yarns
were being told about the manipulation of the big
Yankee insurance funds, business was not only hard
to get, but large sums were allowed to lapse. The
scare is, however, as dead as Pontius Pilate now,
and the figures of this and other cos. show a steady,
healthy expansion. The New York Life’s total in-
come, for example, has moved this way:—
1907 £20,861,878
1908 21,008,853
1909 21,401,462
1910 22,099,262
1911 .. .. .. 23,152,124
1912 24,449,797
The new business taken in 1912 was the maximum
allowed by law ; and it was got for 91 p.c. of what
the law fixes as the maximum expense rate.
Under United States law it is necessary to re-
value securities every year, debiting the accounts
with any shrinkages and crediting them with any
increments. In the foregoing these movements have
been disregarded ; all that has been done has been
to debit or credit income, as the case might be, with
profits or losses made on actual sales. Taking the
fluctuations in value into account, things look like
this :
Shrinkages. Increments.
1907 .. £4,736,327
1908 .. 49,760 £40,360
1909 .. 892,413 1,412,746
1910 . . 247,613 90,513
1911 .. 178,277 159,670
1912 . . 405.539 53,104
Judging by the pretty steady excess of shrinkages,
money has been tight in other places besides Aus-
tralia.
Still taking the net movements in the market-value
of the assets into account, the past year’s opera-
tions pan out as follows:
Income £24,449,797
Outlay—
Claims .. .. £12,691,715
Expenses . . . . 2,735,136
Net shrinkage in value
of assets . . .. 352,435
15,779,286
Added to funds . . . . . . £8,670,511
The “cash bonuses” paid to policy-holders amounted
to £2,350,084, or equal to about 13 p.c. of the pre-
miums. But the American plan isn’t the same as
the Australian. In the American office the “cash
bonus” is the bonus paid in cash during the cur-
rency of the policy. Whereas in Australia the
man who doesn’t let his bonuses accumulate is
looked on as rather a bad, shiftless lot, the American
idea is rather to encourage the drawing of the an-
nual “dividend.” Some, of course, is not drawn,
and is lumped in the end with “claims.” Hence no
fair comparison can be made between the “cash
bonuses” of the offices on the two sides of the Paci-
fic. The past year’s profit apportioned for division
this year was £3,157,241, which was equal to about
19 p.c. of the premiums. This, though fair, is less
than two-thirds of the Australian best. No compari-
son of bonuses is, however, of much consequence
without a comparison of premiums. What the in-
surer really wants to know is the net cost of his
insurance, or the net cost of what is offered him
compared with what others can offer him. The
bonus that is made by merely adding a trifle on to
the premium is just the same small fake that you
see in the tailor’s shop with the human spider in the
doorway—the small fake of crossing 60s. off the
ticket and writing 375. 6d. alongside it.
But security is a greater thing than net cost. It
is the first thing in life insurance. When a man’s
policy falls due for payment he is mostly too dead
to argue points with anybody ; also, he is mostly too
dead to go out and make further provision for his
widow. Ife pays in to-day and trusts his savings—
often his only savings—to the administration of other
people, not till to-morrow or next year, but perhaps
for 40 years. And mistakes are serious because, if
he is 30 now, he can never be 30 again, and he can-
not pull out five or 10 years hence except at a sacri-
fice. Perhaps, indeed, by that time he may not be
able to get any insurance at all, by reason of disease.
The security of an office depends mainly—in fact,
almost wholly—on the quality of the assets; and
this is a matter in which the American practice
seems better than ours. Their assets may be no bet-
ter ; our misfortune is that we can’t be sure how
good ours are. Also, we can’t be sure how bad they
are. There is no valuation of assets either every
year or every seven years. When the Citizens’ took
over the assets of one of the most conservative old
Australian offices a few years ago there was a valua-
tion of assets, and things like this happened:—
Value
Book value, agreed upon.
Freehold No. 1 .. £115,000 £45,000
„ No. 2 .. 34,821 16,000
„ No. 3 .. 35,000 17,000
Foreclosures . . 69,998 48,400
Sworn annual valuations, such as the American
offices have to submit, ought to prevent the inflation
of book values in that way ; and the further Ameri-
can practice of publishing a complete list of securi-
ties, other than mortgages, along with the values set
upon them, is another safeguard.
The Melbourne Trust, Ltd., formed in
1903 to take over what was left of the wrecks of the
City of Melbourne Bank, the Federal Bank of Aus-
tralia, and the English and Australian Mortgage
Bank:—
Deficit
(Preliminary
Oct., Profit. Dividends. Expenses).
1903 £3,116
Dec., Reserves.
1904 . . £4,899 Nil 1,783
1905 .. 4,610 Nil 6,393
1906 .. 9,925 p.c. = £11,389 4,929
1907 .. 15,965 6 „ „ 17,083 3,811
1908 . . 23,616 8 „ „ 22,777 4,650
Accumulated profits on sales, £148,709 .. 153,359
1909 .. 25,183 20 p.c. = 56,944 121,598
Book profit on purchase of Mercantile
Bank Assets Co., £28,782 . . . . 150,380
Other assets written up, £145,205 . . 295,585
Special distribution of assets in 4 p.c.
debentures, £246,559 .. .. .. 49,026
1910 .. 26,289 6j p.c. = 18,492 56,823
1911 .. 34,910 8| „ „ 24,656 67,077
1912 .. 38,009 8j „ ~ 24,656 80,430
This is an amalgamated undertakery. It was origin-
ally formed, as mentioned above, to give as decent
burial as possible to three Melbourne land-boom
banks, and subsequently the remains of the Mer-
cantile Bank were removed to the same mortuary.
At the start 1,366,666 shares of 4s. each and
£392,485 worth of debentures were issued to the
old shareholders and creditors. As the latter were
mostly English and Scotch the office was fixed in
London, where it still is; hence the long wait for
the year’s figures. There is, however, a Melbourne
Board ; and, having the best idea of how the cat was
jumping, Australian investors have mopped up very
many of the shares. Things were pretty bad in Aus-
tralia in 1903, and the valuations on which the new
capital, etc., were based were very low. Values,
however,, improved rapidly, and large profits were
made on sales. These profits were put aside, by
arrangement, to protect the debentures, in case of
another slump. When the last of the debentures
were paid off, some of this reserve was divided in
1909. Then, when the Mercantile Bank Assets Co.
was absorbed, a new assessment was made, and
£173,987 was added to the book value of the pro-
perty still on hand. To get rid of this wealth,
though much of it still existed only on paper,
£246,559 was distributed either in cash or in 4 p.c.
debentures. This was equal to 3s. 4d. per 4s. share.
The absorption of the Mercantile involved also the
increase of the shares to 1,479,355. Since then the
old plan of buying up debentures with the proceeds
of sales has been followed. The next table gives a
summary of the work done in that way:—
Re- Profit on Profit
deemed purchase on Pro-
Debentures during of D•- perty
Outstanding. Year, bentures. Sales.
Oct., 1903 .. £392,485 -
Dec., 1904 .. 304,514 £87,971 £2107 £12,175
„ 1905 . . 262,383 42,131 858 26,817
„ 1906 . . 189,579 72,804 648 31,274
„ 1907 .. 150,693 38,886 213 15,545
„ 1908 .. 89,241 61,452 110 11,519
„ 1909 . . Nil 89,241 7 47,435
„ 1910 , . 193,953 52,606 1654 1,874
„ 1911 .. 151,057 42,896 1838 3,624
„ 1912 .. 93,882 57,175 443 12,644
That £12,644 for the past year was net. Actually
the surplus on realisations was £26,938, but £14,294
was applied to writing down various securities. And
the real profit may have been larger because “when
only a portion of a security has been realised at a
price equal to or in excess of the book-value of the
whole, the directors have continued their former
policy of placing only a nominal value upon the un-
sold portion.” That means, of course, that profit-
taking has been deferred —it will only show up when
the at present unsold portion comes to be realised.
But whether this will be worth much or little to the
co. nobody can say. For one thing, there is no tell-
ing from the published accounts how much these un-
sold portions amount to. In ordinary circumstances
one would not expect much pro tit on sales in future,
remembering that the valuation was made in 1910,
when price levels were high. Yet there is this fact:
on sales of properties standing in the books appar-
ently at about £84,000 there was last year a profit
of nearly £27,000. The property wasn’t, however,
all suburban land; the co. owned sheep stations (it
sold one recently) and a sugar plantation in Fiji,
and fine prices have been paid for such things lately.
But, though profits may still be made on sales, the
revenue from rent, farming, etc., will be cut into
steadily. In 1911 the ordinary trading profit was
£29,447; last year it was only £24,922. Assets
on December 31 consisted of £327,558 of properties
and investments, £135,043 of purchasers’ balances,
and £50,511 in cash. Liabilities (including deben-
tures) were £112,156, exclusive of the year’s divi-
dend. Deducting the dividend, and assuming the
properties, etc., are worth just book value, the
assets are equal to ss. Id. per share. But in view
of the result of recent sales, is it a fair thing to
assume that the £327,558 of properties, etc., are
worth only that much? It would, however, take an
average realisation of p.c. in excess of the book-
value to add another Is. each to the shares. Also, it
has to be remembered that, as the properties are
realised (assuming that it is intended to go on
realising them), it will scarcely be possible to get
more than 4 p.c. from the gilt-edged investments the
money is put into; and you can’t pay an 8 J p.c.
div. on that.
* * * *
The Coastal Farmers’ Co-operative
Society, Ltd. (Sydney) :
Bonus
Net to Con- To Re- Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends, signors, serves, serves
1902 ..£1,528 6 p.c.= £lO4 £1,262 £162 £4lB
1903 .. 2,957 6 „ „ 253 2,583 121 539
1904 . . 2,778 6 ~ „ 320 2,147 311 850
1905 .. 4,958 6 „ „ 368 4,188 402 i 252
1906 .. 4,206 6 „ „ 432 4,126 900
1907 .. 4,352 6 „ „ 479 3,873 900
1908 . . 8.010 6 „ „ 535 7,285 190 1090
1909 .. 9,924 6 „ „ 704 9,186 34 1124
1910 . . 10,144 6 „ „ 865 10,403
1911 . . 9,221 6 „ „ 946 8,244 31 31
1912 .. 12,667 6 „ „ 1032 11,571 64 95
1913 .. 17,718 6 „ „ 1222 14,948 1548 18*3
At the annual meeting it was deoidpH •
authorised capital from £25,000 to £5O onT 6 the
the increase was wanted. It wouldn't’ 00 ?/ and
much if the co. had accumulated * matter so
hasn’t and apparently can’t. This veaT ! but il
standing an extraordinary profit onlv y ? 1 i io notwith '
b li4 o S A areh ° Id - ers v et n °moJe than
£14,948 goes in bonuses to consignors In th’ , but
ter section no less than 25 p c of -the „ the but
are handed back, and it is prettv ni a m commissions
is afraid to offer less. It is the old fin m at the «>•
knows the advantages of co-operation ’ noboclv
body ought to know them better “han ° r no ’
farmers; yet plenty of them will sneak h fw COW '
some non-co-operative concern if it offers y , t ,°
in the £ more. There are times whpn 11 d-
are offered and what they get are miif h , at ~ they
things. But, with few exceptions, they d d o 'sf ent
into figures, so they are blissfullv mi V.i! y • n 1 S°
they have let the substance go and eot°n>e° U k , that
Some day, perhaps, they willowbetter thent*'
will stick to their own co-operative concerns i.’
thick and thin, and if they are not clJi “rough
they think they should be getting they
the management. That really is theonYy thhJthi?
needs watching. If the management is good ™
operative marketing must be better than th? d ’
sort Meantime, it being apparentlyimpowibft
build up reserves, the capital must'’grow with th?
business. At present the turnover is about £l5OO ftnn
a year, most of it butter, the greater part nf °,?k°°?
is sold to storekeepers. As at March 31 tl "
debts were £88,790 or less than three Ut B ’t"
plies , and the co. does remarkably well to tret ts
money in as promptly as that. Yet, when it is «
membered that the co. has to pay for stock also and
has to make advances on grain, etc., even £S«7on
is far too much to carry on a paid capital ,™!i
£21,000 It can only be done by lcanfnfupag/nsl
a bank (which is a precarious method) or kernin'
the consignors waiting for their money (which m»v
be a very inconvenient method).
The Argus Permanent Building and
Investment Society (Melbourne)
. _ „ Written To Re- Re.
Apnl, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves
1900 .. £472 Nil £440 £32 £l5BO
1901 .. 1275 Nil 1762 - inq?
1902 .. 1494 3 p.c. = £505 1113 - Zl
1903 .. 1607 3 „„ 505 963 139 ling
1904 . . 1466 3 „ „ 505 973 i 096
1905 .. 926 3 „ „ 505 490 ion
1906 . . 1133 4 „,, 673 199 261 logs
1907 .. 1447 5 „ „ 841 269 337 1695
1908 . . 1894 6 ~ ~ 1010 475 409 2034
1909 . . 1918 6 ~ ~ 1056 209 653 “>687
1910 .. 2076 7 „ „ 1308 141 627 3314
1911 .. 2035 7 „ „ 1474 157 404 3718
1912 .. 1988 7 „ „ 1542 318 128 3846
1913 .. 2241 7 „ „ 1549 145 547 4393
The written-down capital is £22,336; deposits, loans
on mortgage and other liabilities amount to
£33,683. Practically the whole of this is repre-
sented on the other side by “Loans fixed and under
tables, being balance of principal loaned, £56,475."
Included in this amount is the book value of proper-
ties in possession; but what part of the whole those
properties stand for isn’t hinted at. It looks as
though there is still a quantity of this dead stuff
on hand ; anyway, there is a pretty stiff charge every
year against realisations. Last year, the total was
£BO4, though some of this may have been money
spent in other directions. The accounts are ex-
tremely vague, so that no very definite conclusions
can be arrived at. This is all the more lamentable
because the society is now reaching out in a modest
way for new business, though, naturallv, under
the aforementioned circumstances, it isn’t getting
very much. This shows the recent movements:—
1902. 1911. 1912. 1913.
Capital .. .. £16,825 £21,974 £22,113 £22,336
Deposits and other
liabilities . . 16,539 27,972 33,695 33,683
Advances, etc. .. 33,863 53,640 56,831 56,475
Other assets .. 986 1,520 4,401 5,402
The position is probably quite sound, but before de-
positors leave their little lot behind them, they very
reasonably want to know more about that item of
£56,475 which comprises pretty nearly all the
assets.
* * *
N.Z. Consolidated Dental Co. (Wel-
lington, M.L.) :
Bonus on
Mar. Profits. Dividends. Purchases. Reserves.
1909 .. £1737 7* p.c. = £1475 £255 £13,616
Reserves transferred to capital, £9756 .. 3,860
1910 .. 1921 6 p.c. = 1766 230 3,780
1911 .. 3912 6 „ „ 1766 251 5,680
1912 .. 2524 7 „ „ 2060 253 5,891
1913 .. 2506 7 „ „ 2060 222 6,110
This co., now 15 years old, had a capital of £19,675
down to 1909, when, as shown above, it also had re-
serves of £13,616, about one-third of which came
from premiums. At the end of that year one new
share was issued for every two old ones, and the capi-
tal was thus watered up to £29,431, at which it
still stands. The co. is in the dental-supply business,
and works more or less on co-operative lines; the
bonus shown above is paid to shareholders (now re
stricted to holders of five or more shares), and
amounts to 1| p.c. on their purchases. The tooth
market varies considerably, it seems ; nevertheless the
profits are fairly regular. There certainly was a pig
spring in 1911, but that was due to £1722 falling
into the reserves without saying where it came from.
It may have been profit on the sale of landed P“P e “-
and premises; some seems to have been sold tnai
year. The financial position looks good enough, lia-
bilities total only £4982, while, apart from stock,
the assets amount to £17,971. Stock 1S va ued
£25,021, and this paper can only take the manag -
ment’s word for it that the value is there, u »
isn’t there, then the reserves aren’t there either, an
the profits are not what they are alleged to be. it i
comes to that, practically the same has to be saw oi
every concern which carries a merchandise s ■
And" there is this to be said in favor of a stock like
this—so far as The Bulletin can see, notmng is
likely to take the place of teeth. They are a
satisfactory institution, taking them all round,
no effective substitute has yet been even vaguelj g
gested. # # * *
N.S.W. Cement, Lime and Coal Co. : A
prospectus of this co. has been issued for P£
circulation.” The public is asked to P
£lOO.OOO for £1 cum. pref. shares; the \enao _
take 60,000 ordinaries and £lO,OOO cash,
each lot has had 6 p.c., all rank equally for furtner
divs. in that year. A profit of £6OOO must, m
fore, be shown to pay the pref. dm, and } ~
require £l6OO in excess of £9600 to &
hands a further 1 p.c. The idea, worthv of encoiu
agement, is to build cement, works on the
wang-Mudgee line, 152 miles from Sydney. , ’
shale and coal are all on the spot, and t
convey the mineral leases to the co.if n
ports of F. Oakden (manager of the Mdburn cenw
works, M.L.), Dr. Jack and others, there seems
to be no doubt whatever about the raw ma
They are of good quality and very large extent, ine
whole question is one of costs. The exP e „
mate that they can land cement in Sydney at
ner ton (maximum estimate). Present quot
735., which was also the price paid last year -
N.S.W. Government for 26.700 casks of
cement. The lowest figure known for 30 years i
said to be equal to 645. (including 15s. du V .
on foreign cement is 205.). A profit of • ’
per ton (the difference between 38s. and 6 • ••
the lowest price in Sydney in the past fou
is assumed ; and an output of 30,000 tons i
on. This is the weak point in the argument
certainly imported 30,031 tons last year, bu
three years 1908-9-10 it imported only 30,0 w
tons. And if N.S.W. imported only 30,031 tom
during the year of a wild borrowing hoom,
works of all sorts were being pushed on miles


GOOD
Dividends
Interest
INVESTMENTS that embody all the elements
necessary to Soundness and Productiveness.
Unless we are assured, after the most searching
and thorough investigation, of the earning capac-
ity of every investment, business organisation and
enterprise brought to us —we do not handle it.
CONSULT US on any sound, healthy business
proposition vou may have. We will afford you
the fullest information we have at our disposal.
DEPARTMENTS: Promotion of Industries, Pub-
lic Companies, Trust Estates, Security Depart-
ment. Secretarial Dept., Real Estate, Local and
Foreign Agencies, etc.
Authorised Capital £500,000.
J. Earle Hermann Ltd.,
Sydney, Melbourne and London.
Head Office— Third Floor, Yaraila
Chambers, 109 Pitt St., Sydney.
London Office: 199 Winchester House,
Old Broad Street, E.C.
FOg
Established 34 Years.
THE Trustees, Executors
and Agency Co., Ltd.,
412 Collins St., Melbourne.
The Company acts as
EXECUTOR,
ADMINISTRATOR,
TRUSTEE,
AGENT.
Estates Administered Exceed £25,000,000.
Please call or write for Pamphlet.
JAS. BORROWMAN, General Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Manager.
A great mistake, when erecting new works or re-
arranging old ones, is often made in constructing the
building and installing machinery ere looking round
for means of transport of the raw material, half-
manufactured and finished goods. Messrs. Adolf
Bleichert and Co., of London, have issued various
catalogues and leaflets, illustrating and describing a
few of the many transport systems and plants which
they have supplied, and which show the solution of
the transport question and the advantages of em-
ploying such appliances. W. and J. Lempriere,
Melbourne and Sydney, are the Australian representa-
tives, and would be pleased to hear from those in-
terested. A specially trained engineer is retained to
consult and advise.*
Mine managers and engineers contemplating Re-
inforced Concrete construction should write for par-
ticulars of the Indented Steel Bar, which gives the
greatest bond, and is the strongest and cheapest re-
inforcement on the market. Used by the N. S.
Wales and Queensland railways for bridges, by the
Sydney Water and Sewerage Board for elevated re-
servoirs, by the N. S. Wales Government Architect,
and by all the leading architects. Should guaranteed
designs be required for concrete structures, our ex-
pert will be pleased to furnish plans and descrip-
tions. Apply, Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.*
In all smithing work high-class iron can be more
safely manipulated at varying temperatures than
steel or ordinary iron. It is for this reason that
Best Yorkshire Farnlev Iron is preferred by engi-
neers, where toughness, great strength and close
grain are needed. Whatever the specification, Iron
of the Farnley type does not vary, but is simply the
best that can be produced from what is really
wrought iron. “Farnlev” Bars of all sections sup-
plied from local stock bv Sole Agents of the Farnley
Iron Comp., Ltd. Bell's Asbestos, Ltd., 315 Kent
Street, Sydney.*
From June to September the Bacchus Marsh Shire
Council (Vic.) crushed and spread 3000 cub. yards
of road metal, at an average cost of 2s. 6d. per cub.
yard, and the cost of the spalls per cub. yard aver-
aged 2s. 4d., making a total cost of 4s. lOd. per cub.
yard, broken and spread. Their last contract under
the handbreaking system amounted to 6s. Sd. per
cub. yard stacked on the roadside, and spreading Is. ;
total, Vs. 3d., as against 4s. lOd. —a saving of 2s. sd.
per cub. yard. This result was obtained by using a
Bigelow 16in. x 9in. Patent Stonecrusher, and the
Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
manufacturers of these breakers.* [2
* * * *
Extract from Financial News. London, July 12,
1911: “The annual report of The Colonial Mutual
Life Assurance Society affords abundant evidence
that ‘Forward’ is still the watchword of the directors,
for in every direction admirable progress has been
achieved.”*
PIONEER WOOD PIPE is the most economical
pressure pipe to lay down, as no caulking of the
joints is required, the pipes being simply driven
together. It can be fitted to any connections, and
may be tapped under pressure by unskilled labor.
The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., 57 York Street
Sydney.*
The American Ring Pulverizer is designed for
crushing and pulverizing limestone, lime, coke, ore,
terra-cotta, glass, quartz, phosphate rock, sandstone,
gravel, tile crockery, flint, manganese ore, shale,
and all other refractory materials. See page 3.
Australian representatives: Haes and Eggers, Ltd..
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* * * *
Farmers, Dairymen and Orchardists, and all who
earn their living from the land, should be on the
look-out for the latest and most scientific methods
of reducing labor. Hornsby’s Oil Engine offers to
them an exceptional opportunity, because it can do
so much of the work hitherto performed at great
expense of tissue by the tiller of the soil. In anv
well conducted farm, station or dairy an Oil Engine
must have a place, and there is only one that fits
the bill, and that is Hornsby’s. R. Hornsby & Sons,
Limited, Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane.* [3
Harringtons Ltd. are now in a position to quote
the lowest fees for all kinds of assay, analytical and
metallurgical work. Expert advice on ore treatment,
smelting, bullion, refining, etc. This firm have now
a most up-to-date and completely fitted laboratory,
directed by a first-class analyst from Johnson and
Sons, London, assayers to the Bank of England,
H.M. Mint, The Council of India, etc. Any work of
the above nature entrusted to this reliable firm of
photographic manufacturers will receive immediate
and prompt attention. For full particulars and
prices apply to Harringtons, Ltd., 380 George Street,
Sydney.*
J. W. STYLES & SON, Machinery Auctioneers,
Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 361 Collins
Street (main entrance), Melbourne. (J. W. Styles,
24 years expert salesman.)*
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 163 King Street, Syd-
ney.* [2
Messrs. Mephan Ferguson Proprietary, Limited, of
Footscray, Victoria, have secured the contract for
the supply of steel pipes required in connection with
the duplication of the Bombay Water Supply. The
contract amounts to over £226,000, and the pipes
to be used are of the locking bar type, of which Mr.
Mephan Ferguson is the inventor and patentee.
Engineers will be interested to note that this Aus-
tralian invention has been adopted in preference to
other classes of piping, after critical and searching
enquiries as to the merits of the various types of
water pipes made in the world. It is worthy of
note that all machinery required to carry out this
work has been designed and manufactured at the
firm’s Footscray Engineering Works, and will be
shipped to Bombay, where the pipes will be manu-
factured.*
Messrs. Babcock k Wilcox, Ltd., have received
the order for the supply of all the steam generating
plant and accessories for the electrification of the
Victorian Government Railways. The acceptance of
this firm’s tender was strongly recommended by Mr.
Merz, the English expert. The contract amounts to
£258,000.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison k Co.. 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Assayers. Mine Managers and Prospectors write
to H. B. Silberberg and Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, and at Melbourne, for particulars concerning
mining requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun's
disc pulverisers to 200 mesh ; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh : Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain ; prospector's balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight ; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles: chemicals; etc.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout tho Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
of current requirements in many cases —it seems
probable that the 1908-9-10 figures are nearer the
normal. Also, while the lowest price at which
foreign cement can be landed may be 645., it doesn't
follow that, with keener competition among home
producers, 645. will be charged for the local goods.
Still, though this probably means that the proposed
co. can’t safely figure on selling 30,000 tons at a
profit of 265. 6d.= £39,750, one-quarter of that pro-
fit would pay a 6 p.c. div. all round, even without
any help from the lime and coal side-lines. And
a third of the profit would pay a reasonable 7 p.c.
So The Bulletin welcomes the ambitious stranger,
and wishes it well, and believes that it ought to do
well ; and, incidentally, it remarks that whoever
drafted the prospectus produced one of the clearest
and most complete documents of the sort issued in
Australia for many a day. The directorate is also of
the substantial sort.
The Melbourne Motor ’Bus Co. has begun
to get a grip on Melbourne’s congested traffic. Seven
Daimler ’buses, two deckers, each carrying 34 persons,
are running regularly between St. Kilda Esplanade
and East Brunswick, and this number will be in-
creased gradually. Each vehicle is alleged to be
earning £5OO net per annum, after making heavy
allowances for wear and tear and repairs. The life
of a ’bus is estimated at seven years, but the co. is
reckoning it five years and writing off 20 p.c. yearly.
The manager’s office is a room in the Vacuum Oil
Co.’s offices, so it looks as though the Standard Oil
Trust is taking a hand in solving Melbourne’s traffic
problems. Meanwhile shareholders in the Melbourne
Tram and Omnibus Co. are asking one another (but
not the directors ; they are afraid of them) why the
Tram Co. does not start motor-buses and get a footing
on the roads before June 30, 1916, when its conces-
sion expires
W. H. Soul, Pattinson & Co., Ltd., have,
it is understood, changed their mind. Instead of
issuing some shares at par to pay for new premises
in George-street, Sydney, they will, it is said, send
out bonus shares (probably one in two), and get the
money for the building either from their own
well-filled stocking, or from the bank, or a little
from both.
The liquidators of a little N.S.W. coal co.
that deserved a lot better luck, the Heddon Greta,
are making good progress with their doleful job. The
most saleable asset, the coal waggons, went
promptly, and brought in £15,600; and the £7600
received on account, plus the hire of other plant,
just wiped out the liabilities. The mine and unsold
plant and about £9lOO in cash and good bills (the
last payable in June, 1914) will be available for
distribution among the holders of the 20,844 pref.
and the 42,573 ordinary shares.
Questions having been raised as to the
respective value of the British Broken Hill’s ordinary
and privileged shares, the directors have had their
say in the last report. The ordinaries (300,000) are
paid to £1 ; the privileged (60,000) are paid to
8s For dividend purposes the shares rank alike;
but on liquidation “the amounts actually paid on
all issued shares would first have to be reimbursed
and any surplus would be distributed ratably in pro-
portion to the nominal value of the shares ” This
doesn’t seem right. If there is more than enough
to return the capital, then it must come out of pro-
fits ; and if those profits were divided prior to liqui-
dation, the shares would rank alike. Why should
it be otherwise if the division of the profits is de-
ferred until liquidation ? The right method seems
to be—(l) to pay privileged shares their Bs.; (2)
to pay ordinary shares their 20s. ; (3) to divide any
surplus equally among the 360,000 shares. Certainly
the point hasn’t much present practical importance,
though in the event of, say, a sale it might be
pushed into awkward prominence at any moment ■
and if there is any question about it, it would be
best to remove the doubt at once.
* * * *
British Broken Hill sends out its leisurelv
report for the half-year to the end of
December last. Profit was £61,837 after writing
s °"'ething, but not enough, off plant, etc. ; and
£12,822 spent on development was not charged to
working exes. This means that present profits are
inflated at the expense of future profits. While the
profits for the half-year were £61,837, the divs.
were £108,207 (7s. per share). Therefore, while
£81,324 was brought forward, only £34,954 re-
mained to carry forward to the current half-year;
and that amount was speedily cut into by declaring
another Is. div. No doubt the successful issue of
new capital late last year greatly improved the
financial outlook, and iustified the directors in let-
ting go some of the accumulated profits; still share-
holders mustn’t think that what they have got lately
has been earned in the period.
The £61,837 profit (assuming that the true profit
•"as £61,837, about which this paper has the
doubts before-mentioned) was made by the British
on an output of 103,150 tons. That and a few
tons more were sent to the lead mill, and the result-
ing concentrates contained 363,0430 z. silver and
9423 tons lead. The profit was therefore approxi-
mately £6 11s. per ton of recoverable lead. That
is to say, a fall of a trifle over £6 10s. for lead
would wipe out this co.’s profit, taking last half-
year’s figures as a basis. The plant has been eating
up about 17,000 tons of ore a month. Rearrange-
ments and additions in progress are expected to
bring up the capacity to 20,000 tons a month,
though the mine isn’t yet in a position to supply
that quantity of a consistent grade. With the arri-
val of George Klug, 8., M. and Co.’s manager, as
consulting engineer, it was, of course, certain that
the Elmore zinc process would go out. The Minerals
Separation plant, as used by the Zinc Corporation,
also in the B.M. stable, is being put in. Calculat-
ing on £23 SDelter and £l5 lead, Klug estimates
that the alterations will put £30,000 a year on to
the profits. That sounds well. It would sound bet-
ter if Klug could guarantee £23 snelter and £l5
lead. The £l5 for lead may be safe, but £23 for
spelter begins to look very risky. In 22 half-years
down to the end of 1910 spelter only six times
averaged £23 or more; and there has been a very
uncomfortable drop of nearly £2 in the past month.
This and the uncertainties of lead (which averaged
as little as £l2 Ixs. Bd. in one half of 1910) con-
stitute the big end of the Broken Hill gamble.
The ore will last longer than the present high prices
of metal. It will no doubt even outlast the next
slump in metals. The British certainly doesn’t say
what its reserves are: but the mill couldn’t exhaust
them in six years, and they are being added to splen-
didly. » » *
The Melbourne people behind the Lambing
Flat (N.S.W.) dredging proposition have lost no
time. H. C. Armstrong’s option on the leases runs
till November, but the option co. knows that, if the
gold is there, the sooner it is out the better, so a
boring plant has been set to work this week. The
deepest ground to be tested will be about 75ft. ;
most of it is from 45ft. to 50ft. Frank Powell, who
reported, likes the look of it; but it’s the values that
have to be determined—if they’re right, the show is
right, because no other difficulties are in sight. The
option co. is in 700 £lO shares, of which the public
took 500 at one unsatisfied gulp.
Pine Hill South (W.A.) has passed away.
It first sustained financial injury at Golden Valley ;
then it got a bump at Meekatharra ; finally the
Manxman South Extended, near Bullfinch, put it
out of its misery. For a time things boomed at this
last show. Splendid ore was alleged to exist in
“both ends” ; then it was reported that “exceed-
ingly rich stuff” was still bagged, and the mana-
ger wired to the directors that he was building a
house for the safe storage of the bagged ore. Later
on it was stated that the rich shoot had disap-
peared, and, later still, 30 tons were crushed for
60oz. After that, next to nothing was heard of the
co., so the Westralian mining public wasn’t sur-
prised to hear of its death.
For the four months ended April Wes-
tralia exported £79,749 worth of minerals other
than gold, of which £18,362 represented copper,
£22,348 tin, £BB7O silver, £11,133 silver-lead ore,
and £19,036 miscellaneous. Total exports to date
are valued at £3,229,760, of which two-thirds were
supplied by copper and tin.
* * * *
Paringa’s latest find looks like providing
more than is necessary to keep officials in comfort.
On the western side of its long-held Kalgoorlie pro-
perty a shoot of ore averaging 84s. has been proved
for a length of 80ft. and a width of 51in., and
hopes are entertained that it will keep on keeping
on for some distance further. The south shoot in
the same ore channel yielded £12,500 from 4100
tons, but it was only 125 ft. in length. Up to the
present the mine has only been a source of income
to miners, tributors, officials and firms who supply
mining requisites. Shareholders have received no-
thing, and probably never will. There have already
been two reconstructions.
Princess Royal’s fate hangs in the balance.
Some months ago State Government aid in the shape
of a £2OOO subsidy ( £ for £) was obtained, and
a prospecting winze was sunk from the bottom level
of the co.’s Norseman derelict. It was continued
down until the ore gave out, when it had to be
stopped for want of funds. As the Government
wouldn’t give the co. any more money, and as its
chances of getting any elsewhere are not brilliant,
the Board recently called shareholders together to
consider the position. It was mentioned that ex-
emption had been obtained, and that there was a
possibility of an outside co. lending a hand. In
view of this, it was decided to adjourn for a month
on the chance of something turning up. Past ex-
perience, however, has proved that there is an un-
profitable time ahead of those who expend capital
in looking for wealth in Norseman deep ground.
* * * *
Kyarra (W.A.) claims that developments
justify the belief that its Meekatharra property
shows a profit on actual and probable reserves of
£60,000. Within the next few months the work now
in hand should, it avers, be advanced to a “point of
finality” whatever that may mean; and as only a
year has elapsed since the co. was formed, it is of
opinion that shareholders should be well satisfied
with past results and future prospects. The accounts
showed a credit balance on April 30 of £3096. At
present about £lOOO a month is being spent on de-
velopment and plant, consequently profits are on the
small side and are likely to remain so for some
time; but everybody should benefit in the long run
by this bold policy.
Managing-director Shallcross thus ex-
plains the Westralian Bullrush’s position, financial
and otherwise. It is the sole owner of the Royal
Standard, which should become a revenue-producer
in July. It is the holder, also, of 31,705 out of
60,000 shares in the Kyarra, whose appearance war-
rants the belief that it will start paying dividends
next October. Excellent arrangements, Shallcross
says, have been made for financing the Bullrush Co.,
and so far as he can see there is no reason to antici-
pate that shareholders will be stirred up for any
more money after payment of the 14th call in July.
Probable ore reserves are estimated at 65,000 tons,
worth 365. per ton. So far the gold recovery by
ordinary battery amalgamation has averaged 31s.
per ton; but, as a result of recent experiments, a
much closer extraction is expected in the future.
Costs, excluding development and office items, should
not, it is reckoned, exceed 15s. per ton when crush-
ing is resumed.
Marvel Loch (W.A.) is exploiting the
Comet option for all it is worth, and a trial crush-
ing, “estimated to yield not less than 2oz. per ton,”
is to be put through immediately. Local holders
who, knowing the weaknesses of the Comet, bought
for a rise, are to get out when the return is an-
nounced. It is the same right through with eastern
cos. operating in Westralia. The market is the most
important thing.
Mountain Queen (W.A.) has obtained
partial exemption on its second string—the Trans-
vaal leases—in order to make financial arrangements
for the erection of a £40,000 plant. Extensive ex-
periments made at Broken Hill and Ballarat have
shown that the iron, sulphur and arsenic associ-
ated with the gold in the ore are not going to inter-
fere very much with its treatment, and when every-
thing is in full swing the co. hopes to make monev
out of its arsenic as well as out of its gold. It is
a great thing to be hopeful.
Manager Morgan’s estimate for year
ended December 31 last credits Bullfinch Prop.
(W.A.) with 158,313 tons, of a gross value of
£409,661. Take off production costs, and a profit of
approximately 10s. per share is left. In a supple-
mentary statement to May 31, Morgan reports a num-
ber of extensions in good ore at the 1, 2 and 3
levels, and adds that a vigorous mining policy is
now in full swing, and that the tonnage, will be
increased in July.
* * * *
In some respects the management of
Mount Morgan isn’t likely to improve as the result
of the sale of the late Walter Russell Hall’s shares in
a block. A circular has just been issued by the new
secretary (almost the whole Mount Morgan outfit is
new) intimating that, among other things, it is pro-
posed to have not less than seven nor more than 10
directors, besides a London Board, and that, in the
interests of continuity of policy, it is proposed that
seven of the directors and four members of the
London Board shall be fixtures until 1918. This
“continuity of policy” pretext is too thin. If the
shareholders are satisfied that the policy which is
being pursued is a good one, directors will not be
interfered with. It is only when a policy is in-
fernally bad that shareholders can be roused to
action; and then they should have the power to
throw out the directors guilty of that policy. So long
as a policy is reasonably sane and honest, it isn’t
necessary to fix the directors in their seats for five
years certain in order to secure continuity. That
course is only necessary in order to secure contin-
uity of a policy which isn’t reasonably sane and
honest. If the Mount Morgan management thinks
that its policy, or the policy of any of its directors,
during the next few years may not be reasonably
sane and honest, it will, of course, push the proposed
amendment of the articles through. If not, it isn't
worth while.
Chillagoe is putting up a five-head battery
on the Percy goldfield (N.Q.) to crush stone from
the Union and other shows. There have been bat-
teries on the Percy before, but in those days equip-
ments were primitive, and the mineralised stone met
with at depth was too hard a nut to crack. What
gold the battery and tables can’t save will now go
to the smelters in the shape of concentrates.
* * * *
The Moonstone line at Charters Towers
(Q.) will get a lot of prospecting. The Brilliant and
St. George has started to sink, and expects to strike
it at 600 ft. As there are numerous leaders in the
vicinity, something of value may be met before the
Moonstone is reached. Having nearly exhausted its
capital, the Brilliant and St. George is reconstruct-
ing. There will be 144,000 shares, half of them
contributing, and the other half (paid-ups) will be
given to contribs. as a bonus. Old shareholders get
36,000 paid-up shares (one for every four they now
hold). Kelly’s Queen Block will purchase the old
Welcome and Union leases on the Moonstone, and will
have to raise fresh capital unless the workings on
the St. George reef and the Brilliant cross reef turn
out more. Tom Mills, who is taking so much in-
terest in deep-sinking at the Towers, is chairman of
the London Board of Mills’ United. He favors sink-
ing a circular shaft at Lissner Park to a depth of
4000 ft. if necessary, but it is quite on the cards that
the Brilliant would be struck before reaching that
depth.
* # * *
Brilliant Extended, Charters Towers,
made a profit of £1249 for a run of four weeks, and
the directors, encouraged by the improvement, pay
a sixpence ( £6250). This dividend is the first
this year. It is, however, worth remembering that the
profit for the half-year amounted to only £5104,
although 12,120 tons of stone were crushed for
£24,019, and 10,700 tons of tailings cyanided for
£8195. The cash credit at May 16 was £17,864,
of which £lO,OOO is on fixed deposit. With regard
to development work, the most hopeful feature is the
extension of eastern levels. Ventilation in these
deep mines is greatly improved in cool weather, and
the better flow of air through the workings has
enabled the manager to open a block of ground at
No. 15 level.
* * * *
New Specimen Hill, Daylesford (Vic.),
was one of the shows that found favor during the
North Nuggetty boomlet; but a thud followed when
it was proved that the stone didn’t average better
than that worked by the old gone-bung English co.
Then, when all seemed blue, a strike at the 430 ft.
livened things up. A flat make was also found, and
on these particulars the market moved too fast for
Daylesford to get a decent cut in. Now there is a
lot of talk about a dividend ; but, like the gold in
the mine, it will be there when it is there. The co.
is poking down another lift, and it will be good
news if it hits rich stone; but this is a gambling
risk.
Ballarat knows Daylesford, but Melbourne
speculators won’t remember that to hustle out
quartz means to exhaust reserves, although bringing
dividends along more rapidly. And it is particularly
unsafe to forget this concerning Central Ajax. The
best development there has been in the Western lode
both at No. 6 and No. 7 levels. Any turn-up happen-
ing in that quarter would lead to a lively movement
among a heavy lot of bears. Out of the heap of
guessing over the Central ore reserves, one may
pick 265. per share as probably somewhere near the
mark. If more, the world doesn’t know the fact
officially ; but it is a dead cert, that once big crush-
ing is attempted, the trouble will be to hold the
grade up.
Toora Tin, South Gippsland, has Colonel
Hughes to do the amiable and Tom Birkbeck and
W. A. Mercer to do the talk. The hydraulic-sluicing
plant is to be an eye-opener in power, but that
doesn’t say that the claim is to be an eye-opener in
tin. The crowd that is putting up the cash for the
plant is supposed to embrace the Goldfields Consoli-
dated fatmen, who have piloted many a nice South
African deal through in London. But that doesn't
impress the cockies of those parts ; they know that
a hydraulic sluice can make a big mess of streams,
and they threaten blue ruin if the sludge gets into the
Franklin River from the claim. It has taken all
Tom Birkbeck’s suavity to defer an explosion till
the plant is eating up the gravel, and as he is mak-
ing an honest attempt to dam back all the sludge as
well as the bad language, the chances are he will get a
fair run. Seemingly, others than Mercer and Birk-
beck think Toora will boom, for every acre of drift
in the country-side is surrounded by pegs.
South German, Maldon (Vie.), trudging
along like an over-tired giant, got a pint of vitality
infused into its veins last week, when all the for-
feited shares went off like hot cakes. If this stimu-
lant fails, it will need a lot of faith to prop the old
claim up again. The one ray of sunshine is pro-
vided by the shoot which the tributors are working
at 1750 ft., and calls and cash from the forfeited
shares will go to prove whether it still lives in the
tight country at 1900 ft. Failing this, why should
not the South German have a final flutter over the
shallow ground? Nearly all the best gold in Mal-
don —-and that wasn’t a trifle —was got out of shal-
low shoots.
J.H.C.: Still very highly speculative....
M. 8.: The Bulletin’s statement that the Common-
wealth has a debt of £6,371,847 tallies with
Knibbs’s official figures. See “Finance Bulletin No.
6, Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics,”
page 14: “Amount raised under Loan Act, 1911,
£700,000; balance of loans taken over from S. Aus.
on account of the N.T., £3,431,836; ditto on ac-
count of Port Augusta railway, £2,240,011: total,
£6,371,847.”... .St. K.: No, it doesn’t. The fact
that Commonwealth notes are legal tender doesn’t
oblige anybody, banks included, to pay in that paper.
It only obliges people to accept proffered payment in
it. And there’s a mighty difference between the
two things.
An Adelaide crowd which tried to boom
Binti Binti (W.A.) has now fastened on to an
option at Ora Banda, in the same State, and the
same yarns are being told. Listen to its expert:
“Have inspected the bottom level of the Victorious
and seen the mine plans....lf lode continues, it
must go into our property. .. .Their No. 3 winze,
showing high values, is not far off from east end.”
It would be interesting to hear what the Victorious
people have to say on the subject.
Sydney is having a chance to inspect
Ormiston metal, the new aluminium alloy whose
ponding production was mentioned here a while ago.
Hitherto aluminium, in spite of its virtues, has been
comparatively little used, mainly because (1) it
could stand no strain, and (2) it could not be
welded or soldered or brazed. The Sydney invention
which bears the inventor’s name is as light as
aluminium, and as it can be soldered, brazed or
welded, and also has much greater tensile strength,
it ought to make a stir on the earth if the price is
right.
Henry Jones, the Tasmanian who, with
E. T. Miles, brought Tongkah to the front, writes,
re a reference to his connection with Debook, a new
Miles venture in the same part, that he has nothing
to do with it, directly or indirectly.


Charles
NeidsieckS
Vintage 1906
cm®
HE PLUS ULTRA
1
. .
&
s.
ptr****
FARMER'S
SYDNEY
SPECIAL
THEATRE: DIMMED
E.VEPY fPI DAY EVEniMG
TABLE D'HOTE 4/s
EllTfiAnCE - CEIITfiAI PITT V DOORS
ELEVATOR /*> FIFTH FLOOR
BUCHANAN’S
Black (& White
£
Mi
A GRAND SPIRIT
“ Black & White ” is indeed a “ grand spirit.’
Matured for years in Scotland before shipment
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, June IG, 1913.
My Dear Arini, —
The cable says that the christening skirt
in which the infant Nelson was carried to
the font has been “knocked down” for £BO.
Its pretensions to be the genuine article are
probably as solid as those of many other
historical and unhistorical relics. Taking
them all the way down, from the fresh young
tree at Cooktown to which Cook tied his
ship before the shrub was born, to the bottle
containing some of the breath of Joseph of
Arimathea, relics are an uncertain sort of
business. The splash of red paint still
pointed out to gaping tourists as the blood
of David Rizzio on the wormy floor of Holy-
rood, is obviously paint and dust. The
Cockney tripper who felt he hadn’t had his
tip’s worth of Scottish bloodstain said so
to the guide, who naively admitted that it
hadn’t had a lick of the brush “for mair
years than he could count.” Returning to
the shirt in which Nelson may have howled
at his own christening, George W. E. Rus-
sell, in some reminiscences, mentions the
Nelsonian church that fell into disrepair
some years ago. “As a combination of
pietism with money-making which critics of
our national character tell us is so peculiarly
British,” he quotes the following advt.: —
The man who first taught Englishmen their duty,
And fenced with wooden walls his native isle,
Now asks One Shilling to preserve in beauty,
The Church that brooded o’er his infant smile.
A new and glittering profession has been
evolved in England. I found it in the report
of the funeral of Miss Davison, the suffra-
gette lady who tried to eat the King’s horse
while that animal was busy losing the Derby,
and received fatal injuries in her scuffle with
the animal’s feet. This is how the cablegram
reads :
Two carriages, hidden with white flowers, pre-
ceded the open hearse, escorted on either side by a
guard of honor with lilies, followed by relatives,
Miss Kenney, Miss Sylvia Pankhurst, Mrs. Despard,
Miss Sanders and a few men, including Ben
Tillett, MANY HUNGER-STRIKERS, several sur-
pliced clergymen, numerous society ladies, shop
girls, factory hands, nurses in uniform, women doc-
tors and graduates in their academic gowns.
So apparently hunger-striking is a profes-
sion nowadays, like being a shop-girl, fac-
tory-hand, Pankhurst, nurse, doctor, or Ben
Tillett, or even a sweet girl graduate in her
academic gown. Possibly the business will
spread and climb to higher grades, and in
time we will see brass plates in Macquarie-
street or Collins-street, with some such in-
scription as “Mary Bones, M.D., Professional
Skeleton.” Then you who are stout and
scant of breath and defy Puck to put a
girdle round you in 40 minutes will hasten
in an overloaded dray to see Dr. Mary Bones.
And while the wind blows coldly through
her she will tell you how to live, entirely
without food, and thus in time attain to the
higher and more spiritual framework.
Whereupon you will drop your guinea be-
tween her ribs and depart sorrowfully, feel-
ing that the Higher Life is beyond you.
And being of what medical works call a
“full habit,” you will probably get jammed
in the doorway as you go out, and have to
be pushed forth.
Sad to say, there wasn’t one new-bonnet
striker in the procession which followed the
poor Davison girl to her grave.
The late Arthur Guinness, who used to
Speak in the M.L. House of Representa-
tives, was famous for his silence. He had
enough of it about him to furnish the draw-
ing-room of a catacomb. During his last
holiday trip to this State, he glided over
. our scenic attractions, leaving fewer tracks
„of his presence, in printers’ ink, than any
...other person with a handle to his name who
Las ever been earmarked for interviews. In
spite of this oyster-like retreat into his
-shell when he laid aside his Speaker’s wig,
the late Arthur Guinness, Knight, was bet-
ter liked than many babbling brooks in his
home waters.
The veteran Mrs. Sophie Corrie (80 not
(.out) is skipping off to Queensland for a six
• months’ holiday tour. A tea party, to
1 farewell the blithe traveller, met together
\last week.
Solicitor Matthew Harris, a son of the
knight of Etliam (Darling Point), was
married the other day to Miss Lizzie Camp-
bell, who used to be a Nightingale in Sydney
Hospital. About 80 guests wished the bridal
pair the usual good luck with the help of
an old slipper. Mrs. Carty Salmon, who is
a sister of the groom, came from Melbourne
to be present at the wedding march.
The recently-returned W. A. Holmans put
in Saturday afternoon at the Symphony
Orchestral concert in the Town Hall. In
the evening they hurried off to the same
bleak address to get a farewell snack of the
Bispham baritone. The ascetic Holman
figure hasn’t added to its circumference since
it left these shores. The festive British
oyster is apparently no more fattening to the
lean kind than is the gigantic Stewart
Island species, for thin men rush round the
wind squalls of Invercargill in legions. The
Australian shell-fish is a small, tame beast
compared to its heavily-bearded brother from
Stewart Isle, which is an entire oyster trust
about the size of a saucer and not to bp
trifled with. The cables were so persistent
in reporting the Holman meals abroad tnat
one forgot that a politician generally eats
one dinner a day, wherever he is. Those
who expected to see the N.S.W. Attorney-
General-Premier come home the size of an
elephant remarked in scandalised whispers
the other night that he was “just as thin as
ever.” Mrs. Ada Holman looks very spruce
after her scamper across Europe.
The low-lying sward on the Rose Bay
links was mostly water on Saturday after-
noon. The casual players who were out for
a quiet practice splashed through the wettest
end of the wet, and made toy geysers when
a hearty smack caused a ball to break up
the happy frog home in a water-logged hol-
low. Part of the links are, apparently,
below sea-level, hence the spongy quality of
the golf that follows a winter deluge. A
long, thin figure, that was probably owned
by Prof. Fawcett, banged at a ball on com-
paratively dry ground, under the eye of
instructor Clark. Across the dryest alti-
tudes of the links 200 or 300 enthusiasts
pursued the struggle for the championship
between Sturrock and Apperly. These
goffers must have cast-iron nerves. The
leaps, rushes and splashings of the wet-
footed crowd that lined up like the spectators
at a country funeral, would have been dis-
tracting to shaky players. A mighty cheer
blew the mud up to the welkin when Stur-
rock or Apperly made an extra-special
drive, and 10 minutes later there would be
a rain of slush, owing to the welkin coming
down again. The finish, with Sturrock as
victor, occurred over the horizon of a very
green hillock covered with goloshes.
While the battle raged between Sturrock
and Apperly on one part of the Rose Bay
links, mixed foursomes was paddling through
the swamps on the other edge of the goff
paddocks. The Ladies’ Golf Union of
N.S.W., which is having a week of combat,
was up to its ankles in cold water on
Saturday. That smart little lady cham-
pion, Miss Duret, who can smack a ball
whatsoever way she listeth, hails from the
long, everyday wash of Manly’s waves. She
was out for first place with J. S. Marks,
the Rose Bay goffer, in the mixed four-
somes championship on Saturday. This was
a popular victory for the Manly girl, who
is a good sport. Mrs. Triggs and Oswald
Sealy; the indomitable Una Clift, a mighty
woman on the links, and her goff partner,
C. W. Rundle; the brisk Miss Trevor Jones
and her gentleman help, W. Blaxland,
stamped round on the trail of the conquering
Duret and Marks.
Some of the short goff coats worn by the
lady goffers at Saturday’s campaign were as
dazzling as tropical flowers. They made
luscious splashes of red, purple and blue on
a wintry day. Mrs. M. A. O’Callaghan had
a gorgeous dash of Tyrian purple about her
handsome appearance, as she hurried across
the links with the O’Callaghan in her wake.
The Norman Pilchers followed the game,
Mrs. Norman walking with a swift, swinging
stride through no end of very wet water.
Her hair, a generous auburn, curls of its
own accord on a damp day, and looks its
best when the straight-haired tribe are
covered with wisps like the leavings of a
bag of straw 7 .
The Manly links sent two first-rate goffers
in Mr. and Mrs. Wright, who won the mixed
foursomes handicap on Saturday. “The
Village” wastes little time over the frills
that make the Rose Bay goff house a place
where idle women loiter over teacups.
They’ve got to loiter, anyhow. It takes
from half an hour to an hour and a quarter
to drag a teapot out of some secret strong-
hold, where the kitchen range always sulks
on a big goff day. President Ted Simpson
tramped round as a spectator the other after-
noon. A gorgeous sunset flamed in the west
at schedule time. “Banjo” Paterson’s
muse, framed in a sac suit, was seated on the
upper terrace, with the charming Mrs.
“Banjo” at his side. Society, which was
present in considerable numbers, wore its
worst expression, owing to the fact that it
had to sit with its feet on wet grass for
quite 60 minutes, waiting for the kettle to
boil.
After the show the goffers were counted,
to see if any had got drowned on the links.
I don’t know how many were missing, but
I believe all the pools are being searched for
lost mothers and sisters and daughters, and
vanished bread-w'inners.
The Women’s Hospital (Crown-street)
wants all the help, and a bit over, it can
get. A Special Appeal is fishing for funds
with the fresh bait of shilling collection
cards. Hon. sec. Amy Mowle and hon.
treasurer Reynolds Denniston are casting
their nets in any likely stream. On July 5
the Little Theatre management will give a
matinee for the Cause. This will be
attractively garnished with tea and muffins,
sweets, and other toothsome temptations that
represent the Joys of Satan and send you
weeping to the dentist and the doctor.
Horticulture for women probably started
when Eve dug down the first potato from
the tree-top, to the everlasting sorrow of her
sex. We’ve been learning how to cook it
ever since. In the report of the recent
meeting at the Queen Victoria Club there
is no mention of the lady of the forbidden
apple, but I take it she was the lirst woman
gardener on record. Mrs. Laura Bogue
Huffman presided at the latest effort to poke
up horticulture for females in this State.
Theo Cowan, an Australian woman
sculptor of considerable note, has stepped
ashore here after nine or 10 years spent in
the pursuit of Art on the other side.
The Sydney Stage Society met the wei
tail of the recent rainfall for its ambitious
effort to produce Besier’s play ‘‘Don,” with-
out condescending to learn the lines. The
voice of the prompter frequently drowned
the crunch of chocolates in the stalls and
the rattle of paper bags in the gallery. Miss
Gavin Brown, who seemed to know more
about her business than any other amateur
present, got away with a large helping of
tiowers, and two boxes of sweets about the
size of cabin trunks. The Palace Theatre
was the scene of this performance. The
profits are to go to the Shakspeare memorial
fund. Owing to the inclemency of the mud
on the evening of the play the Bard is un-
likely to get more than a new shroud or so
out of ‘‘Don.”
The Bispham farewell concert in the
Town Hall was a triumph of Bispham over
popular prejudice. The one-man show in
Sydney has yet to leap into large financial
profits. Melba knows her Australian public
too well to give them a one-woman song
recital —granting that a lyric soprano
wouldn’t get a frog in her throat if she sang
continuously for two hours several times a
week. However, the American baritone,
after battling against flooded skies and
drowned highways, shattered the local tradi-
tion that asks for a concert company even
though some of its members be old-age pen-
sioners and the star singer is as fiat as
yesterday’s pancakes. Saturday night’s
audience was a record for a one-voice per-
formance.
David the singer surpassed his previous
efforts. He tuned his lay to the masterful
strains of Wagner, Mozart, Mendelssohn,
Lizst, Verdi, and other big guns. The ex-
tracts of Wagner as interpreted by Bispham
have set a standard that is likely to be
hurled at the Quinlan Opera Co. when its
male soloists plunge into “The Ring.” A
cyclone of applause stormed across the muni-
cipal echoes after Alberich’s Curse (“Rhein-
gold”) had cursed its cussedest. Pianist
Gilbert was in his best form, also. He made
a terrific attack on the difficult Liebestod
(“Tristan and Isolde”) and routed some
mountainous octaves with great slaughter.
Our best suburbs sent a large supply of our
worst-mannered and most expensive people.
They tumbled into the wrong seats, quarter
of an hour after the concert was in full
blast. Bispham closed down till the scuffle
was over. When the next breather occurred
the Always Late Contingent was on its feet
again and stamped into its own compound.
Hazon, by the way, was the only musician
who put the Lost Tribe of Potts Point in its
place, by shutting it out till the mid-pro-
gramme interval.
The little Jessica, with the large con-
tralto voice, achieved one of the few finan-
cially successful concerts of the recent
deluge. Mrs. Noah and all the little Noahs,
and all Ham’s wife’s relatives, and Shem’s
uncle by his father’s sister’s second mar-
riage, left the domestic ark, heavily shod
in rubber and clothed in umbrellas, and
paddled to the Town Hall for the occasion.
Besides the big audience present, hundreds
of absent ticket-holders, who were presum-
ably washed away from their moorings, had
contributed to the treasury box. Mrs. A.
N. Jonsen, president of the committee
which worked this affair to a full-house
climax, ought to shake herself violently by
the hand. The web-footed weather would
have blotted out the receipts of a less skil-
fully organised attack on the public purse.
It is up to the committee to keep a tight grip
on the cash, and lock it in a burglar-proof
money-box. When the time is ripe to pack
up Jessica and her unusual voice for for-
eign climes, another nest-egg may be added
to the present deposit.
Mrs. Alex. Gordon and the Gramophone
Co. are likely to have a duet together, while
the sweet-voiced Welsh-Australian warbler
is in London. This will give the Gordon
youngsters, when they cease to be young-
sters, the chance of hearing their mother’s
vocal art as it is to-day.
The council of the Actors’ Association
held a meeting of the cult on Sunday even-
ing. Walter Bentley’s studio was the pl'ace.
This mild entertainment was not an alarm-
ing feat of Sabbath breaking. A block away
the evening service in St. Andrew’s Cathe-
dral was undisturbed by anything more up-
roarious than the shrill screams of the
latest motor horns. One of these infernal
machines is exactly like a pig squealing in
the final agony that precedes pork,
which goes ahead of bacon. Some day the
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals may arrest this petrol horn, also
another that bawls like a sick cow when it
is bogged in a mud-hole.
To return to the Actors’ Sunday At
Home. ’ Comedian Percy, vice-president, dug
up a few statistics to show that mummers in
distress were getting comforting snacks of
help from the funds. Hugh Ward men-
tioned the fact that another benefit perform
ance would occur in the spring oL
footlights profession is always ready to
its aid to charity matinees. When it
a benefit for itself, the public is bound Kt
what it ditl last year—fill the theatre ,»
lire escape. 0 lts
The Austral String Quartet produced
fresh matter the other night. This Z
Quintet in G minor by City Organist Ernest
Truman. tiddler Cyril Monk, E V
Janssen, Carl Gotsch and L. d'Hage Z
he marrow bone of the Quartet. Mrs
(xrace Miller W ard lent her voice to it
occasion. lue
The Hospice afternoon rally (, we searched
the dictionary m vain for a more definite
name) had the invaluable aid of David Hk
phani and his perpetual accompanist Harrv
M. Gilbert. Reg Roberts sang an’ attrae
tive morsel about Folly and Dolly o''
of Mmnie Everett’s pupils Hung a'pair of
agile red legs round the platform i n l
Spanish dance. Mabel Batchelor lent her
aid, and records of Melba. Caruso am
Lemmone floated sweetly across an atmcf
sphere of wet golosh.
Someone or other said to someone or
other that Governor Strickland never went
out after sunset. Then Such-and-Such re
marked to Tweedle-dee that it would be no
use asking his Ex. to the llospice liall
which it would be inconvenient to hold
before the vice-regal chickens went to roost
When it was too late, a few intelligent per
sons recalled the fact that various reports
of the Strickland appearance, outside his
family circle, quite late at night, had
trickled through the press. At the eleven-
and-three-quarterth minute, a cast-iron ap-
pointment gripped the vice-regal presence
Unable to accept the belated invitation, his
Ex. will be represented by A.D.C. Forbes
and his pretty missis—before this meets
your eye.
The new Dutch boat Tasman was at
home to a crowd of visitors the other after-
noon. In its upper lounge, which has a
large hole in the middle threaded by a stair-
case, there is a bold bas-relief of the warm
reception that met the original Tasman in
1642 when he first peered at the Maori. The
chief impression of this marine display of
furiously indignant natives paddling across
a bronze sea, is, that most of those present
have either left their hair at home, or wear
it standing straight up on end, bristling
with fury and grease and whale oil. Man-
ager J. 11. C. Stuart and Skipper Goedhuis
were waiting to clutch the hands of all
coiners. Careful souls slithered up the
slippery gangway, keeping a firm grip on
the rail and one eye on the streak of inky
water that lapped the Dutchman’s side
below. Barefooted Javanese stewards stood
about like small brown images. The im-
movable countenances of these fragments of
humanity was atoned for by the different
phases of expression in every set of toes.
I suppose a Javanese still wears the visible
signs of his emotion in the place where a
higher civilisation grows its corns. Minister
for Works Griffith and his wife came along
the Dutchman’s deck while the company
was filling itself with tea. The Spencer
Bruntons ; Mrs. Sep Levy (chiefly clad in a
long silky black fur coat, cuffed and col-
lared with a small snowstorm of ermine);
the M.L. Tourist authority, E. H. Mont-
gomery. in the glad rags that include a
shiny top hat; Mrs. E. H. Montgomery,
very snne in mouse-colored furs and wintry
gown; Mrs. Jack Connack, and a hundred
or so more also ran.
Leila Wiburd, a youthful soprano, raised
in this town, will give a concert on June
26. This young songstress belongs to a
well-known sporting family, which is much
addicted to swimming and singing. It pur-
sues these recreations at different times o'
day.
Rebe Kussmann, a girl fiddler who used
to be one of the veteran Kretschmann’s in-
fant phenomena, has roused the London
Telegraph to a mild chortle of
praise. Re a recent recital given by stu-
dents at the Guildhall School of Music, that
organ deliberately remarked: “Miss Kuss-
mann, a violinist, obviously has musical tal
ent” (this sounds dull, doesn’t it?). “Her
interpretation of the allegro and andante
movements, etc were characterised by a
decision and a wealth of well-baianeed feel-
ing which showed that she is not only very
well grounded in the technique of her art.
but possesses temperament.” After this
kindly, elephantine effort, the critic, presum-
ably, took a well-earned rest, and retired in
good order on an aerated bun shop.
Eva Gauthier, the little French-Canadian
skylark, flew off on Saturday by a merely
mundane Brisbane express. The Tasman
had threatened not to budge an inch from
its wharf till the Symphony concert was
over, and the singer and her saucy I rencli
hats were on board. But the Dutchman un-
gallantly changed his mind and fled some
hours before the lady could keep her tryst.
She raced after the departed liner and beat
it on the road. So she vcas able to heave a
reproachful smile at her fellow-passenger.
Manager J. 11. C. Stuart, when his craft
bustled up to Brisbane, and ask him wna
or. earth had detained him.
Yours affectionatelv.
VANDORIAN.


VICE-REGAL
fgh
JEWELLERS
BY APPOINTMENT.
Ivory Toilet Goods
for Ladies.
r~3
■
m
Ladies' Flat Ivory Hair Brushes, in Solid Leather Case,
£5 per pair.
We can also supply to match the Brushes, Hand Mirrors,
Hat and Clothes Brushes, Puff Boxes, Pin Trays, Manicure
Sets, Shoe Lifts, Glove Stretchers, Buttonhooks, Puff Boxes
and Trinket Boxes.
Inspection of these goods is invited. Mail Orders and
Inquiries receive prompt attention.
Selections sent on approval to any address.
Hardy Brothers, Limited,
VICE-REGAL JEWELLERS,
13 Hunter St., Sydney; 118 Queen St., Brisbane.
LONDON OFFICE: 17 & 18 WEST SMITHFIELD, E.C.
Over 1,009,000 Copies Sold of the CELEBRATED
“BOOKSTALL” SERIES OF AUSTRALIAN BOOKS.
PRICE. l/-s POST FREE 1/1.
The “Bookstall” Series of Australian /Literature is the most successful library of Fiction
ever published, being unique and distinct from any other library; purely Australian in
character, and embracing the manifold conditions of life in our Sunny Land. It appeals to all.
Are you sad? Read the Humorous works.
Are you in love? Read the Romantic works.
Are you thinking of settling on the land? Read the Selection Stories.
Y r ou will be pleased with the whole Series.
“ABORIGIN ALITIES” from "The Bulletin.”
Selected by Charles Bertie, Author of “ O.d Sydney,” etc.
WITH 39 ILLUSTRATIONS BY LIONEL LINDSAY.
Price 1/-; Post free 1/1.
Readers of The Bulletin, the most popular paper in Australia, will welcome this book with enthu-
siasm, as it will enable them to enjoy afresh many a hearty joke that tickled them years ago. Mr. Bertie
has selected only the best, so that readers are saved the weeding-out process inevitable in such a collec-
tion of contributions as appears in a weekly paper.
The supreme advantage of having an art st like Lindsay to illumine the text will be apparent the
moment you open this book, which should prove a mirth-producer second to none.
To those who may not be Bulletin readers we say, “Buy a copy of ‘Aboriginalities’ at once. You
will laugh and grow fat.”
DETECTIVE STORIES.
Billy Pagan, Mining Engineer By Randolph Bedford.
Übique By Clarence W. Martin.
The Mystery of the Boxing Contest .. By Bert James
BOOKS OX BUSHRANGING.
Dan Kelly, Outlaw By Ambrose Pratt
Three Years with Thunderbolt . . By Ambrose Pratt
The Outlaws of Weddin Range . . By Ambrose Pratt
John Vane, Bushranger By Chas. White
Short-lived Bushrangers By Chas. White
Gentleman Jack By Don Delaney
The Captain of the Gang By Don Delaney
The Devil’s Nightcap By Lancelot Booth
The Convict Pugilist By Geo. Cockerill
The Spell of the Bush By John X. Cameron
SPORTING BOOKS.
A Rogue’s Luck By Arthur Wright
The Mare with the Silver Hoof By Bob Allen
Eros! Eros Wins! By F. Agar
Rung In By Arthur Wright
In Racing Silk By Gerald R. Baldwin
HUMOROUS BOOKS.
The Missing Link By Edward Dyson
Tommy, the Hawker By Edward Dyson
Benno —And Some of the Push .. By Edward Dyson
Fact’ry ’Ands By Edward Dyson
Scotty Mac, Shearer By R. S. Tail
How "McDougall Topped the Score, and Other Verses
Bv Thomas E. Spencer
The Spring Cleaning (by Mrs. Bridget McSweeney)
By Thomas E. Spencer
The Surprising Adventures of Bridget McSweeney
By Thomas E. Spencer
Why Doherty Died By Thomas E. Spencer
The Haunted Shanty Bv Thomas E. Spencer
That Droll Lady By Thomas E. Spencer
The Bulletin Reciter
Bill’s Idees .. By A. G. Stephens (“The Bookfellow”)
SELECTION STORIES,
By STEELE RUDD.
On Our Selection
Our New Selection
Stocking Our Selection
On an Australian Farm
The Dashwoods
The Poor Parson
Duncan McClure
Sandy’s Selection
Back at Our Selection
From Selection to City
For Life
Dad in Politics
The Book of Dan
By SUMNER LOCKE.
Mum Dawson—Boss The Dawson’s Uncle George
AUSTRALIAN HISTORICAL
ROMANCES.
The Barb of an Arrow By Roy Bridges
By His Excellency’s Command .... By Roy Bridges
Mr. Barrington By Roy Bridges
BOOKS OF ROMANCE AND
ADVENTURE.
The Double Abduction By H. K. Bloxham
A Man of Sympathy By Harry Tighe
The Sign of the Serpent By J. H. M. Abbott
The Trader By Cecil Ross-Johnson
Stella Sothern By I. A. Rosenblum
The Recipe for Rubber By Ralph Stock
The Bathers By W. G. Henderson
Love and the Aeroplane By John Sandes
Rocky Section By Sydney Partrige
Tom Pagdin, Pirate By E. J. Brady
The Luck of the Native Born By A. J. Barry
Caloola By Clement Pratt
Bindawalla By Thomas E. Spencer
Base Brands By H. M. Somer
Chandler of Corralinga By R. J. Cassidy
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.
476 George Street
(OPPOSITE QUEEN
VICTORIA MARKETS),
Sydney.
AND ALL BOOKSELLERS.
IHMHIJH
il
"PM
-•*
//
$
&
'lt
Mfe*£
yy
c9v
J HARK IS
iri^-i?
THE STECK PIANOLA PIANO has founded a new school of
music-lovers. It is the most widely imitated musical instru-
ment ever produced. Yet the artistic qualities that gave the
original its world-wide success have not been closely copied.
Remember, it you want the Pianola Piano’s efficiency, you must
have the Pianola Piano itself.
On sale in Melbourne only at PIANOLA HALL.
Let us send you one of our Catalogs. We will send it free if
you will write us. Ask for Catalog R.
MODERATE MONTHLY PAYMENTS WHEN DESIRED.
LIBERAL ALLOWANCES ON OLD PIANOS.
it here
-at the Pianola Piano-
and play the world’s
greatest music.
Don’t Go Through Another
Winter Music-Hungry!
HERE is never any wondering "what shall I do to kill the time” in homes
where there is a STECIv PIANOLA PIANO.
From the moment it is installed you will find it hard to*resist its fas-
cination.
At first you will want to be playing it all the time —perhaps you will start
out with a collection of popular melodies, operatic hits, and lively cakewalks.
Then, as you become expert in playing it, you will want to dip into some of
the more difficult music, you will want to find out something about the great
composers, try over pieces you never even heard the names of, increase your
store of general information by a closer acquaintance with such famous names
as Mozart, Mendelssohn, Haydn, Schumann, Chopin and so on.
The money spent for a STECK PIANOLA PIANO is something more
than money spent for passing pleasure.
The Pianola Piano stands for EDUCATION, for RECREATION, for
RELAXATION from the cares of the day, for a broadening of the mind, for an
insight into the wonderful art of music.
It is something the whole family can enjoy and will profit by.
f 9A
THE PIANOLA COMPANY,
252 Collins Street, MELBOURNE /
88 Rundle Street, ADELAIDE;
and 436-438 Queen Street, BRISBANE; London, Berlin, New York, etc.
357 George Street (next David Jones Ltd.), Sydney.
Vf


Farmer’s Famous Footwear
for Men.
THis Smart Boot, 25 - Pair.
Farmer’s Men’s Footwear has long been renowned for its
extreme ease and comfort in wear. The boot we illustrate will
fit perfectly, giving the utmost comfort, whilst its neat, smart
appearance will appeal to all stylish dressers.
It is made from superior-quality Black Glac£ Kid, with full
golosh, flexible, welted soles, and lined linen throughout.
Stocked in all sizes, and five-joint fittings, B to F, enabling us
to fit any foot, from the narrowest to the widest.
Price
25-
Pair.
Pay the Carriage.
fg
FARMER’S
SYDNEY.
The
Oriental
Hotel,
MELBOURNE.
AUSTRALIA’S MODERN HOTEL.
Now open for the reception of Guests.
The most Hygienic Conditions and Refined
Elegance are distinctive features.
Any size suite of compartments.
Tariff from 15/- per day.
ERNEST McINTOSH, General Manager.
The Lone Hand
for July
Contains the First Chapters
of a SPLENDID STORY
OF AUSTRALIAN LIFE,
by . *.
LOUIS STONE,
The Author of “Jonah."
MELBO URNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, June 16, 1913.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Marie Hall's coming-of-age dance was
easily the event of the month. It
happened on Wednesday of last week —
the night before the golden twenty-
first birthday which was bringing her
Grandpa Watson’s £16,000,000,000. (Per-
haps it isn’t as much as that; but I
always think a fish-tail of ciphers sets off a
pretty figure.) Marie herself wanted to
postpone the whirl on account of the serious
illness of her friend and travelling chaperone,
Mrs. Goodall. But all her girl friends had
their frocks ready, and their programmes
were already half-filled, and grief unutter-
able would have devastated the countryside
at the mere mention of nostponement. The
girls looked lovely ; in fact, there was not an
ordinary-looking maiden among the crowd.
(Gentle Reader ! if you mumble doubtfully
like that, 1 will move the suspension of the
Standing Orders and hit you with my um-
brella !. . . . Well, don’t interrupt!) Nina
McLeod, a special girl-chum invited from the
distant West for the frolic, was garbed in
gold, with a purple osprey. Marjorie Dunn’s
clothes were Deacock blue, and she risked
peacock’s feathers in her hair. The little
French Gomans daughter put a pinky-red
feather in her hair, and wore white. Mutiie
Huon scored simply with an all-black cos-
tume. Joan Innes-Noad, from Sydney, ap-
peared in a dream of blue and mauve, with
her baby-fair hair trickily dressed. Marie
Hall, hostess for this glorious night, was
wound in a scarf of silver and pink roses,
with a peep of purple here, and an edge of
sable fur there, and mamma’s present of
pearl and diamond jewellery glittering every-
where, and grandpa Watson’s gold shining out
of her eyes. Mamma looked resplendent in rose
brocade. The clinging sheath was gossamer
and plush, and it snaked faithfully after her
across the floor. Not once did she have to
stop and whistle to it to come on. Half a
dozen Naval Depot men struck beautiful
attitudes amongst the mere men civilians.
Jeff Stuart, a delightful young sailor, is the
greatest Society exponent of the Turkey Trot
and imported dances. (I suppose he stands
a good chance of being made an admiral if
he does his hornpipes well at sea!) “All
the girls are crazy to dance with him !” mur-
mured a chaperone. “They say he holds
them so beautifully!” (Happy reminiscent
sighs like summer zephyrs from all the con-
tented matrons. Bleak sniffs from the other
sort.) Muriel Starr, from the Theatre
Royal, came along after the show and
Trotted with grace. She shed an adorable
cloak of mole-color in order to rotate with
a youth or two. Mrs. Leslie Stuart upheld
the frocky reputation of our smartest
matrons in rose-embroidered black and gold.
Mrs. Murray Morton showed off a blue dress
that had been embroidered in Japan. Mrs.
Hewlett, another chaperone, brought a pretty
niece-in-law. Lesly Madden wore a grey
dress, and danced with young medical stu-
dent McGillicuddy, who saw to her Glaci-
arium injury, the other day. Two Frank
Madden misses enjoyed themselves hugely.
One fluttered about in spangled black, and
the other wore a blue frock with a cut-off
train like a telephone conversation. Sup-
per was a set midnight affair —practically
a good dinner transposed to an unnatural
hour. After supper was done with, the
guests took a fresh interest in life and began
a second dance, which lasted till the milk-
man, that wild harbinger of dawn, crowed
thrice and proclaimed that day was come.
The homing motors fled by ones and twos
through dreaming Chapel-street towards
town, and momentarily disturbed the sleep
of prostrate suburbanites with the hurry
music of their humming engines.
One sure sign of careless opulence, at
heiress Marie Hall’s coming-of-age dance,
was seen in the cloak room arrangements.
Real half-a-guinea-a-box powder, my dear!
—the kind that actually sticks to your nose,
and gives you the proper whited sepulchre
look. And it wasn’t doled out either, but
was available by the sackful, while a small
mountain of powder puffs rested softiy
alongside. High-class functions. from
Government House parties down, have de-
sisted altogether from the old, lavish way
of putting out powder; for the ordinary
laws of morality don't seem to apply to
nose-paint, any more than they do to um-
brellas, or books. The stuff is just lifted,
much as lead is lifted from the roofs of
unoccupied houses by persons of a much
lower caste. Why, even shoehorns and
buttonhooks are now chained to the waist of
the cloak-room dragon-in-waiting. Sweetly
wise girls who go forearmed to the soiree
with puffs and “shammies” secreted in their
stockings, almost fainted when they saw the
half-guinea powder sticks lying round. It
was like leaving a keg of money handy in
order that guests might not want for large
change.
The Alfred Hospital dance shovers have
secured everything in the way of vice-
regalitv for their whirl. A committee meet-
ing at'the Town Hall (in the Gaud Mayor-
ess’s inner shrine)'put things on a good
financial basis. Mrs. llennessy is president,
and the Gaud Mayor treasurer. Most of
Toorak’s illustrious women are actively con-
cerned. and if someone could only seize and
auction the ostrich feathers that wave opu-
lently at the committee meetings, the funds
would have a comfortable sum to go on
with.
The Law Students, a set of serious young
tome-chewers (Memo, for compositor: Not
tomb- chewers, please!), have invited their
friends to give their minds a rest and hop
with them, on Wednesday, July 2, at the St.
Kilda Town Hall. For that evening at
least, the study of the law will positively
cease in this vicinity
The South Yarra Skating Kink, which
draws the Best People from their Toorak
fastnesses, has seized on an American idea,
and is busily making ready for something
called “A Tombola Night.” Fancy dress and
fancy skating are on the programme; like-
wise plain dress and plain skating the sort
that so often ends with a dull bump.
“I say,” chirped a girl Climber to a
maiden who is one of the Clumb; "you
didn’t go to that invitation hunt club meet-
ing at So-and-So’s place in the country! You
were invited, of course! Why” (bubbling
with enthusiasm), “there was a special guest
train and dinner on board! Fancy you miss-
ing a thing like that!” “No, I didn't go,”
responded curtly the hunting girl who had
Clumb (or Clomb), “and I saved two pounds
by it! At that outing you paid your own
fare, and your own dinner, and your own
horse-box! I don’t mind telling you I could
not afford it.” Exit dazedly the Climber.
She knows now how deftly the socially ex-
perienced manage their hospitable splashes.
On Saturday the hosts of society rolled
along to the Princess’s matinee, which was
generally referred to briefly as “Lesly Mad-
den’s show.” Charitable amateurs (all
amateurs are charitable —they have to be)
presented, or shoved forward “His Excel-
lency the Governor.” The vice-regalities
attended in bulk—perhaps because of the
sonorously flattering title. G.-G. Denman
beamed from the Manager’s box, and the
Barttelot lady, at his distinguished elbow,
supported a purple hat and sable furs above
the plush edge. Husband Barttelot towered
in the shadowy background, and gazed
across at Governor Fuller, who was buried
in the depths of an astrachan coat —an
enormous thing that almost filled the box.
Another mountainous garment wore the
curls of local Help Crespin above the crater,
which was the collar. Mrs. Stuart Murray
and Mrs. George Chirnside commanded a
herd of loyal followers in a box lower down.
Mrs. Pursey Chirnside was penned with the
Fenners. John Pickwick Madden sat in the
orchestra stalls and beamed on leading
daughter Lesly. Sister Mrs. Jack Baillieu
was indicated by a white osprey. All the
social following of the rich Mrs. Sanderson
(starring for the afternoon) threw in their
six shillings apiece to watch the show ; while
hundreds of rich boys let the uproarious
football matches rip and paraded duti-
fullv and beautifully. The pitiful
bleat of lost society sheep was heard
thinly in the wilderness of the pit.
“Ai simply couldn’t get better seats, my
deah! Isn’t it a feahful crush ?” Rubbing
elbows with quite clean people they haven’t
been introduced to has a remarkable effect
on some folk —makes them gaze wildly
around, as if they expected to be mortally
bitten, and talk in strained, high voices
that carry for miles. There were two
Helps on the boards, one from each Govern-
ment House. Burnham, of the G.-G.’s
household, masqueraded as a governor.
“Tommy” Curwen, of the State staff, had to
perform the sort of duties on the stage that
he (presumably) has to struggle with in real
life —if Helps are in real life. As might
have been expected, he made an excellent
job of it. If there was a bell to pull, or
lights to switch, or cigarettes to pass, Cur-
wen attended with neatness and despatch.
(“Governors’ families waited on for orders.”)
Pretty little Maie Ryan had the ingenue
part. She aired some pretty dresses, and
spoke her lines in a thin, shrill voice. Lesly
Madden, very plump and sedate, was billed
as Stella de Gex —a French-English society
girl who has defied convention and arrived
on the music-hall stage. Lesly pranced
somewhat heavily through the (allegedly)
heart-breaking pirouettes of the part. The
amphitheatre held a number of cheerful bar-
barians, who had evidently been snared by an
outside placard announcing “Princess Mati-
nee To-Day.” Roars of savage laughter
greeted the unfortunate leading lady as she
made her first “entrance.” She appeared
in a ’rickshaw, and, in spite of weeks > of
careful practice, she tripped on something
while getting out, and tumbled in a tangle
of high heels, shoe-buckles and frills from
the Asiatic truck to the stage. It was dis-
tinctly hard luck, and I hope you will help
me "to suppress all mention of the
accident. The Madden gowns were
very fine. One, an evening dress, was
accompanied by an osprey that looked
like a burst water-main. Mrs. Sand-
erson showed off a rose chiffon costume that
made the house gasp with envy. Judge
Holroyd’s son wore the pink lapels of the
stage governor’s help. Fred and Norman
Steele, good-looking young men of these
parts who hold commissions m the loy
Scouts or something, tramped on under hel-
mets as mere supers. Amongst the vege-
tables that were handed up from the stage
boxes, some practical or embittered soul in-
cluded a hot-water bottle, unwrapped and
unashamed in its imitation leopard-skm
cover. I sincerely hope that whoever do-
nated it did not mean to insinuate that it
might be of use in mitigating the effects of
a frost. You know these dastardly things
are done sometimes. A w r ell-timed hot-water
bottle might easily assassinate a theatrical
reputation—stab it to the heart, so to speak.
Lesly fluttered to the footlights after the
last curtain, and thanked “Everybody with
coy blushes and a voice tremulous with ner-
vousness. . »
Edith Hope Campbell and Nina Bagot,
both of whom decorate the Best Set, got
snowed up for three whole days at Mount
Buffalo. When rescued, the tale they had
to tell was anything but woeful. During
their term of isolation they ski-ed and tobog-
ganed. A young Dublin cousin, who
was there for geological or other
scientific purposes, accompanied the girls
during part of the snow-country trip. The
young man has a delicious brogue which
would be a great handicap if he were trying
to disguise himself in a strange country.
Miss Hope Campbell, by the way, disclaims
the Scotch flavor of her last name, and has
no great love for the bagpipes. She belongs
to the only Irish branch of the mighty Camp-
bell clan, and so inclines her shell-pink ear
to the harp.
The youngest of the Pinschof daughters
(a great horse and dog enthusiast) has just
been on a riding tour with the Stuyvesants
and a few others. She wanted to show these
visitors some Victorian scener^; so they
trained it to Tallangatta, and from there
rode across the mountains, taking some
breathlessly steep tracks. They trotted
through Mansfield, and passed towns with
cheerful names like Tumbleup and Merrijig.
They eventually came down through Bright
to the plains on the other side of the range.
Then the ladies once more devoted some at-
tention to their ill-used complexions, and got
busy with pretty frocks for the rush of pri-
vate dances now following one another in
this frosty town.
A Toorak wedding has just been cele-
brated in whispers. The small bride w T as
booked for matrimony once before to another
man; but, when the wedding guests were
almost at the door, and the presents were
being arranged to the best advantage, the
ceremony was declared “off.” That sort of
experience is calculated to jar a person ; so
all hands united in keeping this venture just
as quiet as was possible.
Last week Oswald Hoad, son of the late
General Hoad, married pretty Sheila Mac-
Donald, one of the prettiest girls of the
Caulfield district. Neither of them wanted
fuss and trumpeting. (Many poor young
things have that laudable aspiration; but it
is often overruled on the grounds that Aunt
Mary or Uncle Ebenezer “would never for-
give us.” And, most of the time, the sup-
posedly relentless relatives are muttering
angrily that they don’t know what all the
fuss is about, but they suppose it means
another present, though Heaven knows liv-
ing is expensive enough without, etc., etc.)
The small wedding party—for this really
was a quiet wedding—having seen the job
well and truly done at St. Peter’s, packed
itself into a couple of motors and ran down
to the Oriental for some refreshments. The
hotel spread its bright blue pavement carpet
for the bride’s white shoes. She wore extra-
special tailorings of white cloth, and carried
a huge muff of chiffon and ermine, with
water lilies pinned on the outside. When
it was time to “go away,” she ran upstairs
and rapidly disguised herself by changing
shoes and stockings and enveloping the
dazzling whiteness of her suit in a dark
travelling cloak. Thus attired, she defied
anybody to recognise her as a newly-wed.
The Best twins endured their christening
the other day, and made a great vocal to-do
about it. Mrs. Isaacs, wife of the High
Court cjignitary, stood sponsor for at least
one "of tbe youngsters. The pretty young
mother was overwhelmed by the grand united
yell of the family; but a kindly matron
patted her encouragingly on the cheek and
cooed: “Tut, tut, my dear! You can’t ex-
pect them to have perfect manners at nine
months old.” A very wise and proper obser-
vation. I have made a careful note of it,
and, when I find the tea label I wrote it on,
I shall paste it up somewhere.
The Urquharts are taking Margaret Niall
abroad with them, thus leaving her widowed
dad to his own devices and without the
orders usually imposed or issued by a
motherless daughter. They all had a good-
bye dinner, at the Oriental, last Thursday,
when the table was crowded with violets
and champagne—also some food. By the
way, the Urquharts, who hail from the Wes-
ern District, now number Charlie Wallace
amongst the family, that well-known
yachtsman having married their eldest
daughter. The second girl, who has just
budded from school and flapperdom is
fine, fair sporting amazon. At the'dinner
she wore an enviable blue frock and th
wide-eyed wonder-look of expectant youth.
Victor Hood, who is putting in a few
weeks with the Fullers, has been on the sick
list for a day or two, and intends shortly
to go North and convalesce where the white
man is unable to live, or die, or drink, I for-
get which.
A spinster of (?) summers, who runs a
large motor round town, is slipping quietly
away to England to marry a wool man who
has won her heart, hand and fortune. The
lady is one of a large family ; but when Dad
died he left all his money to her. Disap-
pointed sisters, brothers, cousins and aunts
tried to upset the will; but the impartial
Law declared, after examination, that it
was too well rooted for any such operation
The favored one is throwing round handfuls
of largesse to the others before she departs.
Nellie Wilson, of the J.C.W. forces, is
off to the U.S. with a sprightly back-kick
A New York theatrical engagement looms
ahead <4 her.
Ruby Roberts, the girl billiardist who was
beaten—but not by a gigantic margin--b.v
Walter Lindrum, has hopes of persuading
her sex to take up the cue as a profession.
“It is rather monotonous always playing
with men,” says Ruby. “The only women
I have played with in public lately were
Madame Sterborn and Miss Collins.” She
has discovered that most girls are content
just to learn the game passably. During the
match at Alcock’s rooms, the fair cueist wore
a lilac gown decorated with a bunch of vio-
lets. The mixed audience followed her play
with some enthusiasm. It is over six years
since she took to billiards, at the instigation
of her uncle.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
A simply delirious week, my dear. Two days' rac-
ing! Clara Butt!! “Bella Donna’’!!! a Victoria
League reception !! ! ! and about 675 teas!! !! | p 0
you wonder that the local Culture is simply sizzling
in the community’s collective skull? The Asehes,
inimitable advertisers that they are, have decided to
give another “Kismet” Ball here. Wherever “Kis-
met” is played there is a “Kismet” Ball. This is an
imperishable rule framed by the business manager.
The cash will go to the Adelaide Children's Hospital.
The Exhibition Building will be the site of the revel.
The Victoria League entertained Mrs. Clara Butt,
Mr. Kennerley Rumford and the members of the
Julius Knight co. at the Cafe Rubeo on Tuesday.
There were about a hundred guests all told—a num-
ber of them, strange to say, men. The question is:
Did they leave their jobs and swallow inferior tea
and soggy cakes for the mere love of such viands, or
was the presence of alluring young theatrical females
to blame? I leave it to you with full confidence
that you will arrive at a correct decision. Mrs.
Way, who is just recovering from influenza, helped
to receive the guests. She was in blue taffeta, with a
black beplumed hat. Mrs. Richard Hawker discovered
to the community a graceful frock of white crepe d*
chine, with beautiful lace and a picturesque black
hat. Mrs. J. R. Baker habited herself in black
moire, and there were no audible complaints on the
subject. The stupendous Clara wore a chinchilla
coat and a beaming smile—a fine combination. Lady
Bosanquet was in blue, and her daughter in a shade
that hovered between cerise and strawberry. Mrs.
T. J. Fisher wore grey ninon with touches of silver.
The decorations were scarlet —geranium and salvia.
For further particulars apply by letter enclosing
stamped and addressed envelope.
The A.R.C. had fine weather for the Birthday
Cup meeting on both days. Battle Bridge and
Charlatan paid £l3 odd per medium of the tote,
and Broadsword, in the Cup, paid £39. A party
from Government House turned up both on the Satur-
day and the Monday, likewise the McFarlanes, Hawk-
ers and Bowmans. Mrs. A. E. Martin exhibited a
smart purple coat and skirt. Mrs. Julian Ayers,
Mrs. Frank Fisher and Mrs. Kyffin Thomas wore
more or less ordinary clothing; while Mrs. John
Corbin sported an exquisite sealskin coat —the sort
that the bellow-dramatic villainess dons in Act I,:
that is to say, before the comic friend of the hero
has had time to hit her on the head with a hatchet
and cause the garment to be distrained on by her
creditors. In addition to those mentioned above
there were several thousand mere human beings.
The Butt-Rumford concerts have drawn good
houses, and on Wednesday the Exhibition was
crowded. Mrs. Butt’s frock —of rose and silver and
fur —was a wonderful creation, and she fairly shone
with diamonds. The main features of the evening
were encores and burst gloves.
The Bach Society tackled “The Messiah” at its
last concert, aided and abetted —in fact, actually
directed—by Dr. Davies. Mr. and Mrs. Chappie.
Canon and Mrs. Girdlestow, Mr. W. Duffleld, the
Gaven Gardners, and Mr. and Mrs. Chapman all
looked as if they liked it.
Miss Ethel Haute, one of the Bakewell clan, got
back from England on Saturday.
The Henniker Heatons lunched with the Ways, at
the Queen Adelaide Club, on Saturday.
T Burgoyne, M.P., who had his 86th birthday on
Tuesday, has been in the State Legislature ever since
'B4. In his time he has been in a Ministry or two
—under John Cockburn and Vabien Louis Solomon,
but mostly he toils as a mere private member.
The S.P.C.A. has been giving its attention to sale-
yards, and doing it to some purpose. Owners or
broken-down horses have got into a way of sending
the poor brutes to a sale-yard, where they are
knocked down for 2s. 6d. or so to whoever wi
for them. That means they may either go as wo
for pigs or be worked. A day or so ago the a -
purchased three grandfather horses at a sale-yard tor
225. 6d. All were almost starved, and one in sue
evident pain that it had to be destroyed. The i Sock*
means to interfere with Private Enterprise sofara.
to force owners to treat their horses decently—or pm
them out of their misery when their work is do •
But why a horse which has toiled all its -en ~
life without a penny of wages shouldn t g 5 ,
age pension the same as a fairly well-paid human
am unable to say.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.


Pike Brothers Ltd.
BRISBANE.
Wear the
“REGENT”
the new
Crush Hat
■
Light —it weighs but an ounce or two —gives without
pressure at any point.
Self-conforming-it clings with a mild insistence
through every breeze or gust of wind. Generously
made, and can be worn dented or telescoped at will.
Distinctive —its dignity and charm has made it the
choice of most well=dressed men.
ShiStdcS—Light grey, laurel green or fawn*
Bands to match.
12/6
Postage
9d.
Extra.
PLEASE STATE SIZE
WHEN ORDERING.
Send for one on approval. There is no obligation to
purchase, and cash will be refunded if not suitable.
&
21/-
PAIR
Either Boot or Shoe,
BlacK Glace Kid
BlacK Box Calf
Tan Willow Calf
Patent Colt SKin
PLEASE STATE SIZE WHEN ORDERING.
Guinea
F ootwear
approved by
established popularity
May it please you to
consider whether healthfulness is
not the most prizeworthy of human
treasures ? In this regard how potent for
good is the Boot built on the perfected
precepts learned of nature? These produc-
tions are contrived for the natural accom-
modation of the foot so that its normal
proneness has no fettering. They encourage
the health of their wearers as if the goddess
Hygeia had herself directed their design.
21/-
POSTAGE FREE IF CASH
ACCOMPANIES ORDER.
Piße Brothers Ltd
OUTFITTERS FOR MEN
BRISBANE
Townsville
Toowoomba


h
gf
hfg
Neckwear to Suit Every Taste
We have the Season’s best and newest colors in such
variety that you will have no difficulty in finding a style
to suit you.
Broadway Scarves in Crepe de Chene, Poplin and Silk,
from 1/6 to 4/6.
Oxfords and Batswing Bows in dozens of new shades.
The Famous “Blackie Daw” Collar
A new idea in Collars, and unequalled for comfort, long
wear and dressiness. 9d. each, 4/3 half doz., 8/6 doz.
Fill in the Coupon for our Catalogue.
PEPPERS LTD.,
High-Class Tailors and Men’s Outfitters,
310 George Street, Sydney
Near Hunter Street.
COUPON.
Please send me your Free Boot:—"The
Mirror of Fashion.”
Name
Address
BARKED YOUR SHINS?
'Yell, trv Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Liniment: it will
take away all the pain and stiffness, and you will
forget all about it. rrice, Is. t>d. and 3s. Obtain-
able everywhere.*
ACID STOMACHS ARE DANGEROUS.
COMMON SENSE ADVICE BY A
DISTINGUISHED SPECIALIST.
“Acid”’ stomachs are dangerous
acid irritates and inflames the d
lining of the stomach, thus hindering
preventing the proper action ot the sto
and leading to nine-tenths of n "«f er .
stomach trouble from which peopi- =■
Medicines and medicinal treatments
useless in such cases, for they iea
source of the trouble, the ac ni •
stomach, as dangerous as ever. ljie
must be neutralised, and its format' , 5e
vented, and the best thing for this P _ .
is half a teaspoonful of bisurated m. „, •
a simple antacid, taken in a Bttle u
cold water after eating, which not o
tralises the acid, but a^so . b rev ?°
mentation from which acidity is
Foods which ordinarily. caus< ! ro eal
tress can be eaten with impunity 1 .
is followed with a little bisurated m.--
which can be obtained of an\ chem -
should always be kept handy.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Patrick Jennings is the only N.S. W. Pre-
mier who can be compared in personal
political Miefliciency with the outgoing Pre-
mier McGowen. Both were good fellows,
both were honest and decently behaved, but
neither had any initiative. In the beginning
of his career McGowen found it difficult to
discriminate between Freetrade and Protec-
tion, but. on an emergency, he settled down
to one of them, though it is doubtful if he is
THE AFTERMATH.
The Political Cartoonist meets the Trust
Dragon, the Socialistic Tiger and a few other
friends in a nightmare.
yet quite sure which. He was delighted
when the Australian Parliament took over
the darned trouble. Still, he and Jennings
nominally headed Ministi-ies that did things
—even if they weren’t always wise things.
As a matter of fact, neither could be bothered
to repi'ess their colleagues. They preferred
to cultivate their own hobbies —the one
Sunday-school teaching, the other music. As
“Jim” flies to his Sunday-school. “Pat” fled
to his songs in A Flat.
The ignorance of the average Englishman
who writes about Australian politics is amaz-
ing. The latest to make an exhibition of
himself is Archibald Hurd, a journalist in
the employ of London Telegraph, and a
sort of a*nateur naval expert. Dr. Arthur,
M.L.A.. proudly published a letter from
Hurd last week, in which the whole of the
oft-exploded objections to Australian defence
were resuscitated. An extract: —
Australia offered a Dreadnought in 1909 to
strengthen the British arm where it must be bared
for the whole Empire; she is now taking the ship
away into the Pacific.
Of course Australia never ‘‘offered a Dread-
nought in 190!) to strengthen the British
arm.” A few Australians talked of some-
thing of the sort about this time. Ulti-
mately they tried to raise the money for
the vessel by private subscription, but failed.
The 1909 Dreadnought is not now being
taken away into the Pacific, for the simple
reason that it never came into being. The
Foster Frasers, Hurds, and so on have no
cause to feel lonely: In a recent issue of
London Daily Mail it is seriously stated
that Weinholt, Fisher’s late opponent in
Wide Bay (Q.) was a pugilist, who never
addressed meetings, but conducted his candi-
dature by knocking people out on the plat-
form. How is*it possible to take the people
who are responsible for such uninformed
nonsense seriously?
THE LEGACY.
“Before New South Wales can develop as she
ought, she will have to borrow considerably more
money than in the past,” said the Premier, amid a
chorus of “Hear, hears.” —Retiring Premier
McGowen.
McGOWEN (to Holman): “Look here, Billy,
I've gazed into the crystals, and the future
kolas nothing but borrowing and developing
the country for my friend here."
“Melb” : Ex-Agent-General Tav-
erner brought with him from Eng-
land biograph films of the railless
electi’ic trams at work in Rother-
ham (Eng.), and showed them at
the Star Theatre, in the presence
of the leading Melbourne experts
in Electi’ics and Trams, including
representatives of our monopolist
company. The railless trams work
from overhead lines, with a trolley
stick such as the rail-trams carry.
The question at once arises, “Why
a wire? Why not run with petrol,
like motor ’buses?” The answer
is that the overhead line gives a
far longer life and reduces ex-
penses. Also, the railless car sur-
mounts steep gradients that would
stop a petrol ’bus unless the en-
gines were altogether too powerful
for levels and ordinary gradients.
As compared with tramway trac-
tion, the cost of construction is
about one-fifth, and thei-e is no in-
terference with the ordinary traffic.
The trolley pole, much longer than
for a rail-car, sways, so that
the car need not keep under the
wires. It is easy to urge theoreti-
cal objections, but the Rotherham
cinematograph shows the system in
actual working, with the cars
dodging in and out, and going to the
side of the road to pick up or let
down passengers. Altogether it is
a revelation. The motor ’bus •will slay the
tram, and the railless will slay the motor
’bus. What after that?
Some day a smart organiser will work a
point on his political opponents, and thereby
stress a weak spot in the existing electoral
machinery. In Gippsland, for instance,
several presiding officers, clerks and scruti-
neers, were unable to reach their booths or
May 31, through superabundance of snow,
and the voting was postponed till the follow-
ing Saturday. By that date a swift agent,
working for Wise, could have rounded up
500 supporters who had not yet voted, and
l’ushed them to the booths in question, and
thus ousted Bennett. The performance would
be quite legal, as things are.
[F. C. Jones, Elgar-road, Burwood, Victoria.]
Senator Clemons l:as answered the polit-
ical riddle. There should, this Tas-
manian statesman thinks, be a rest from
party government —with this proviso . lhe
Liberal party should decide what measures
may not be passed. Incidentally, Clemons
thinks the Labor Government might be per-
mitted to remain in office during good be-
havior. also with this proviso, that party
Government being temporarily abolished as
aforesaid, the Liberal party should be the
judges of what constitutes good behavior.
On the same principle, washing-up being a
nuisance and tradesmen’s bills an infliction,
this writer is going to allow Senator
Clemons to abolish his meals —with the pro-
viso that this chronic eater reserves to him-
self the right to turn up at his old haunts
as usual and take food three times a day.
[S. H. Prior, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
No sooner do the Liberals get a majority
in the House of Reps, than dreadful things
happen. Two deck-hands fell off a Sydney
Harbor boat in one day. Rats were reported
to be increasing in Sydney. A schooner was
reported sunk off Coogee. Australia lost the
Davis Tennis Cup. The Turkish Vizier was
shot. The worst frosts on record happened
in S. Aus. Anthrax broke out at Moama
(N.S.W.). A child in Westralia died after
chewing a bougainvillea bloom, which bad
hitherto been regarded as quite a harmless
vegetable. Butter rose l|d. The creditors
in a Melbourne Jewish trader’s estate got a
shock —die offered them 19s. lid. in the f.
Cold feet were prevalent in Brisbane. _ A
man named Smith was fined ss. for being
drunk and disorderly. Heaven only knows
what these things have to do with the Lib-
eral party; but as they are the sort
of things that were fastened on to the Labor
party and the Labor party lost its majority,
the public is evidently impressed by them.
[S. H. Prior, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
Purple patch hewn from the letter of one
James Young, Liberal candidate for
Ryde (N.S.W.), to Sydney Telegraph
(i2/5/’l3) :
I much appreciate Mr. Wade’s kindly-meant advice
for me to keep out of politics. My own professional
advancement, no doubt, would be greater without
the political incubus of Parliamentary duties to re-
tard me. Still, as the electors of Ryde electorate
have services of value to them placed by me for their
acceptance or refusal at the ballot-box, I am pre-
pared to make the necessary private and professional
sacrifices, should the electors, as I have every reason
to hope and expect, return me to Parliament as their
representative by a large majority.
One of the drawbacks of Liberalism is its
habit of putting 59 words into a sentence.
If some one would present the party
with a pint of commas and a bag of full
stops he might start the Wade crowd on a
new career.
When the Liberals were fighting. the Re-
ferenda proposals, their stock arguments
against giving the Commonwealth power to
deal with trusts, etc., were that (1) there
weren’t any combines; (2) if there were
any they weren’t injurious; (3) even if
they existed and were injurious existing
legislation was quite strong enough to cope
with them. Now, though those yarns were
told less than a month ago, the Victorian
“Liberal’’ Government has already decided
t» introduce next session an anti-combine
law r , on the lines of Maoriland’s Commercial
Trusts Act, 1910, to prevent persons and
firms forming compacts tending to discrimi-
nate unfairly against persons or firms out-
side the compact, or to stop supplies to those
persons or firms —as the Melbourne Brick
Combine did to the Glen Iris Co. and other
intending customers recently, according to
the sworn evidence given to the Vic. Brick
Commission.
[F. C. Jones, Elgar-road, Burwood, Victoria.]
CURFEW SHALL NOT RING
TO-NIGHT.
GRAN: "Well, the brutes didn't ring ther
bell , so me darling is safe fer a while ,
bless ’im, ther sweefeart."
“F.C.,” from the Victorian side: —
There was an election the other day in my dis-
trict for a Legislative Councillor or Affluent Land-
lord. There hadn’t been a contest for years or cen-
turies, or some other old multitude of things of the
sort, and I wouldn’t have known there was one on
now but for one of the candidates condescending to
drop me a circular presenting his views and his por-
trait. His face was against him, and so was his
occupation—he was a grazier—but the other man
hadn’t troubled to notify me of his existence.
Neither of them had spoken within four miles of my
residence. In fact, I don't think the other man
spoke anywhere at all; he was the retiring fossil,
and his views could be assumed accord.nglv. He
called himself a “gentleman.” Painful though it
was, I was compelled to vote for the less reactionary
grazier. At all events, he had energy enough to
graze, which was in his favor. I was on the verge
of raving lunacy when he lost by 900 votes in a
poll of 8000, out of a total enrolment of 18,000.
You will observe the figures, and when you recollect
that there were contests in only five of the 17 elec-
torates, you will perceive what a live, up-to-date,
vigorous, representative institution this House of
Review is!
It is already hinted that two things which
almost alive two weeks ago iS
IVS.V. are practically dead again-.*)-,”
North Shore bridge and Minister GHfliiic'
wonderful scheme for raising the wind
TAKING HOME THE WASHING.
JOKE COOK : “ What’s all thin— presents?"
TORY PRESS: " No, Mr. Cock! It's the dirty
linen we washed for you during the elec-
tion."
If Victoria’s State Ministry could cook
half as well as it can write a menu, that
State’s Parliament might be worth keeping
in existence a w-hile longer. The bill of fare
for next session comprises no less than 51
items, chiefest of which are the Greater
Melb. Council, Price of Gas Regula-
tion, Workmen’s Compensation, Redistribu-
tion of Seats, Public Health. Hospitals and
Charities, Milk and Dairy Supervision, and
Crimes Act Amending Bills. It would take
John Weary two sessions to pass those few,
and then the Rich Landlords would put half
of them on the shelf for time to ripen—or
rot. But by starting with half a hundred
proposals, the Ministry can pass a dozen or
so trifling measures, and crow over the num-
ber of its achievements, though one Act to
constitute an effective Greater Melbourne
Council would be worth the whole boiling.
From The Bulletin’s Old Soldier:—
Archibald Hurd, of London, talked some
wild rot in his letter to Arthur, M.L.A. —I
mean the letter that the Sydney Telegraph
reprinted last week. Consider this: —
If Australia insists in attempting to “police the
Pacific” the British people “may respond by claim-
ing that ships paid for with money raised from the
people of the United Kingdom shall be kept in Euro-
pean waters to police European waters.”
It will be interesting to know how Britain's
food supply (a good deal of which, by the
way, comes from Australia) is to be pro-
tected if the British navy is kept in Euro-
pean waters? The food supply will be
Britain’s chief naval problem in its next
great war. Furthermore, it will be abso-
lutely absorbing to hear the remarks directed
by the British investor, who has many mil-
lions sterling sunk in this country, to the
Government, which by way of punishing
Australia for starting a navy of its own,
takes steps designed to place the country at
the mercy of an invader.
The present N.S.W. State Government
never does things quite as any other Govern-
ment would, and it is living up *:o its reputa-
tion. At time of writing McGowen has re-
signed half of his Premiership, or he luu
sent in half his resignation of the whole
Premiership, and the other half is to be sent
in a few weeks hence. So at present he is
half in office and half out. and if the door
slams he will probably be hit about the waist.
And Holman is half the new Premier and
half the old Attorney-General, so if the door
slams he will probably be smitten on the
ear. Holman, as the Premier who has partly
come in, is supposed to be forming a new
Cabinet, and McGowen, as the Premier who
has only partly gone out. hasn't yet given up
his hold on the old Cabinet. McGowen. it is
understood, isn’t to do any more work m his
old position, but he wants to hang on to
the hollow shell of the dignity till a certain
date, when he is booked to lav the founda-
tion stone of a fish-stall or something of tne
sort in his own constituency of Kedtern.
The idea is that that will be his last public
appearance as head of the Ministry. fnc
dentally he has half decided to accept a subor-
dinate portfolio under Holman. as .j ur j* r
of Victoria, when he abdicated, did under
Watt. Also, he has half decided not to. And
if any calamitous circumstance arises ne
tween the first half of McGowen s resig
tion and the second half of Holman > a
sion the Governor will have to decide ' ,
two out of the four halves to send for- an
he will probably have half a mind to
up his own job in despair.
FORBIDDEN GROUND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In alleging a breach of municipal by-laws, which
tell you you mustn’t walk on the grass, a poetic
Balmain policeman said that he saw two youths “on
the forbidden ground, talking to two girls.”
Which makes the bard break into reminiscent
rhyme:—
When the thin moon no longer hung
Her lamp, hut throbbing planets swung
Gold censers in the heavens round,
You turned, with eyes so true and young,
And faltering tongue,
To whisper, “ 'Tis forbidden ground.”
But silence followed on vour sigh ;
We two alone beneath the sky,
Where no voice fell, nor any s und,
We stood and watched the stars swing by,
Just you* and I,
My dear, upon forbidden ground.
They say, that on the garden sward,
Where Eve and Adam praised the Lord,
One tree, one plot of grass was found,
Where One from out the hosts adored,
With flaming sword,
Kept guard on the forbidden ground.
No flaming sword its blinding light
Swept balefully across our sight,
There stood no angel to astound ;
Y T et trembling were your lips, and white
Your face that night,
Because it was forbidden ground.
We would have dared the sword of flame,
We would have made a jest of fame
While in the blaze we leapt and drowned.
But aren't you glad that all the same
No bobby came
To us, in the forbidden ground.
N.S. W
A. M.


For All Homes
For All Climates
RONISCH PIANO.
[f HI KiEST.
I to
7 •
• .
The true test of a piano lies in its power to
retain its tone and musical qualities under
the most trying climatic conditions. The
wonderful durability and wear-resistino-
r r 25
features ot
The Ronisch Piano
are due to its construction. Men of long-
experience in high-grade piano building are
employed, and not a particle of unsound
material or unseasoned timber is used.
FOR LOVERS OF ARTISTIC TONE QUALITY
As a result of extreme care in every detail
of modern methods of construction
and the excellence of workmanship and
materials, the RONISCH PIANO will
remain musically perfect for many years.
The ROXISCH is a highly artistic in-
strument—a piano which has coveted
places in leading musical institutions,
schools and colleges of music, and in the
homes of celebrated pianists.
We have a fine range of RONISCH
PIANOS, including Grand and Upright
Grands, ordinary Uprights, and the
exquisite RONISCH-CLA VIOLA COM-
BINATION PIANOS. You are invited
to visit our Show Rooms and inspect our
RONISCH PIANOS. Catalogues and
price lists post free, if unable to call.
We sell on Easy Terms and allow full value
on old pianos taken in part payment.
338 George St. p Sydney
And at Newcastle, Lismore,
Brisbane, Toowoomba.
h
Stewart Dawson s Co.
(AUST.) LIMITED.
Strand Corner, 412 George St., Sydney.
In originality and beauty of design, in skill of workmanship, and in
durability of service, Stewart Dawson's Goods stand unequalled.
First Cost Prices bring these beautiful goods within the range of
the moderate income.
D 3520. —8 Fine
Diamonds and
Emerald, in 18ct.
Gold and Plati-
num Setting,
£l 5.
GBB79.—Pearl & Tur-
quoise. 9ct. GOLD
BROOCH,
D 4162. —F in e Aqua-
marine and Pearl set.,
15ct. GOLD NECK-
LET.
D 3812. Fine
Diamonds, in
18ct. Gold and
Platinum set-
tings.
£2l.
C 8159. —Fine Pearl &
Turquoise set, 9ct.
GOLD BROOCH,
We pay postage on all goods to any address.
Write for a copy of our Beautiful Illustrated Art Catalogue.
AUSTRALIA : Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND: Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin.
LONDON: 73 to 81 Regent Street, W.; and 19 to 21 Hatton Garden, E.C.
*3/0,
«
1
«•
GOOD CAMERAS AT ALL
PRICES at HARRINGTONS
BUT
THE. NEW MODEL
WINDSOR CAMERA
at a Guinea is the Best Value Ever
Offered in Hagazine Cameras.
It is a compact, well-made, .Box-form Camera, with
an infallible plate-changing arrangement. Carries
12 J-plates, splendid Lens, accurate Shutter and
Magnifiers for taking sharp,' clear pibhires at any
distance from 3 feet.
Price Complete, with Book of
Instructions
21/-
Write for Specimen Print taken with this new
Camera; also for our new Price Just ready.
386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A/so at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, AUCKLAND (N.Z.),
and WELLINGTON (N.Z.).


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Absolutely Pure.
No Preservatives.
fg
E. R ESC ITS LIMITED, Brewer by Appoint-
ment to his Excellency the Governor-General.
Brewery and Offices : Dowling Street, Redfern, Sydney
West Australian Agents RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH. KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
810-SHOWMEN!
""THERE'S onlv one BEST Biograph. We can prove
1 it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE." Send for Cata-
logue. Sole agents: Jerdan's, Ltd., 393 George Street,
Sydney.
Missing Friends.
WILL MR. FREDERICK WILLIAM
ST. VINCENT STREET, formerly
of Brisbane, please communicate with-
Atthow & McGregor, Solicitors, Brisbane.
PATRICK MOLLOY, Deceased. —Information is re-
quired bv the undersigned as regards the
address of MRS. MOLLOY. formerly of Huehenden.
the widow of THOMAS MOLLOY. or the children of
the said Thomas Mollov. B. J. BEIRNE. Solicitor,
Toowoomba, Executor Estate Patrick Mollor, deed.
pROWXE.- —Information is required as to GEORGE
KENNY BROWNE, who formerly lived at The
Crescent, Clontarf, Dublin. Ireland, was afterwards
in the Cape Mounted Police, and later in Towns-
ville and Nelson, Australia. REPLY to ARTHUR"
GEORGE JOYCE, Solicitor. 121 Stephens Green. W
Dublin. Ireland. ______
I AMES JUSTIN McCarthy, last heard of at
Jenolan Caves. Blue Mountains. X.S.W.. working-
as a Photographer. Will anyone knowing his where-
abouts please notify W. P. MCCARTHY, 921 Pacifier
Street. Vancouver, B.C.
H ATTHEWS. BRIDGET, who left Ardee, County
*' Louth. Ireland, with her uncle Saul about 20
years ago for Sydney, or any of her family. :f she
has married, as her nephew Leo seeks her. eldest son
of her late brother, .John Matthews, grocer and spirit
merchant, Newry, Ireland, who expects to arrive in
H.M.A.S. Sydney about August.
Address:
J. F. LEO MATTHEWS. R.A.X.F. (Stoker),
Mess sth, Royal Naval Barracks,
Portsmouth, England.
Government Notices.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Port Augusta to Oodnadatta Railway.
TENDERS addressed to the Secretary.
Department of External Affairs. Mel-
bourne. will be received up to 11 a.m. on
Tuesday. 22nd July. 1913. for the Manufac-
ture. Sunply. and Delivery of 4 Wheel Brake
Vans (3ft. 6in. gauge).
Drawings. Specifications, etc., will be on
view on and after 24th June. 1913. at the
undermentioned offices: —
Commonwealth Railways. S 4 William
Street, Melbourne.
Commonwealth Works Director. Cus-
toms House. Sydney, and .
Commonwealth Works Registrars. Bri'-
bane. Adelaide. Perth, and Hobart.
The charge for each copy of Specification
will be fl Is. and for each plan 5s- which
must be paid before the documents cafc un-
issued.
Tenders are to be endorsed “Tender for
4 Wheel Brake Vans.” and are to be accom-
panied by the deposit mentioned in the Fornc
of Tender. „
JOSIAH THOMAS.
Minister of State for External Affairs.
Accounts Due by the Government of the 1
Commonwealth.
ALL persons who have claims against
the Government of the Commonwealth
are requested to apply to the Department
which incurred the liability, on or before
Friday. 27th June, so as to avoid inconveni-
ence to themselves and the Department.
No accounts will be paid on Monday the
30th of June, after Une p.m.
ANDREW FISHER.
Treasurer of the Commonweal rh. ,
SPORTING
NOTIONS
A little brother of Jack Johnson has made
a somewhat sudden appearance in the ring, having
just sailed to fill an international engagement. He
is to box a big German pug in Berlin. Andreas
Johnson is the name of the new colored hope. He
is not as big as Jack; in fact, American critics
declare that, as a fighter, he is not ace high. But,
then, American critics are not feeling proud of
the Johnson family just now.
The smashing of Joe Russell, of Brisbane,
by Herbert McCoy, at Sydney Stadium on Saturday
night, was one of the swiftest fights seen in that en-
closure as far as speed is concerned. It is certain
that the purse he bagged is about the most quickly
earned money McCoy ever made. A minute and a
half subsequent to shaking hands with his opponent
McCoy had landed the glory and the profits in his
dressing-room, so to speak. When they met McCoy
sent two towards Russell’s head, but Russell inclined
his head, so to speak, and as the wallops flew past
he placed right and left on McCoy’s body. McCoy
telegraphed a left wallop, but instead crossed the
right and dazed Russell badly. The Queenslander
rushed into a clinch and as he came in was chipped
on the jaw. Then he gripped. but McCoy threw him
off like St George repudiating the dragon, and with
an uppercut sent hint down and out. It was over
two minutes before Russell got a proper hang of
what had happened. The real contest of the evening
was the struggle of the people who had seen the
fight to get out through the raging crowds of late
comers who were charging in full blast to see it.
That was a great pushing match.
On Saturday last the Rugby League re-
sumed its competition on Sydney’s sodden grounds,
where brilliancy was impossible, and strenuousness
necessary. Eastern Suburbs was the sole remaining
undefeated team, and South dreamed golden dreams,
even though Messenger himself led the champion
team. But the dreams did not materialise. On a
bog tactics are hard to carry out. It was a ground
on which the battle was to the weighty, and to
those with large feet, and East Sydney had the
surplus poundage and the abundant feet. It
started to use them from the first, and by sheer
bullocking heaved South back on to its line, where it
was kept busy pulling down attempts to get over.
South had the misfortune to lose its captain early
in the game, and he happens to be one of the
captains that do matter. He is a tactician as well
as a 'bailer, and a general as well as a booter; and
without him to direct its efforts, South felt that it
had no great hope. And it hadn’t. It was defeated,
by 12 points to nil. The play didn’t look so uneven
in the field: it was the heavy artillery of the
younger Messenger's boot that made the difference.
At half-time East lead by four to nil, thanks to
a couple of penaltv goals kicked by the gentleman
aforementioned. East started to press from the
moment of resumption, and though South fended
well, it was evident that East was the attacking
party. The attack worked closer and closer and
when within striking distance there was a sudden,
savage combined rush and the ball was bullocked
over the line. This time IV. Messenger took the
kick and added the extras. South attempted to re-
trieve this disaster with what was really the charge
of the day, but the temporary campaign came to
grief. All the same, South pressed hard. It kicked
at the door but could not burst it open. Then
South lost another man injured, and the team, out-
weighted and manned down, could not stand the
charge, which was carried home by “Dally” Mes-
senger. The kick failed, but South was beaten by
12 points to nil.
* * * *
Newtown continued the triumphant
career that commenced when it lowered South Syd-
ney’s colors for the first rime. This time it was
Glebe’s turn to provide the chopping block and it
did it with bad grace, struggling like the Devil. Had
its struggles been less devilish and more scientific
it would probably have done better. The ball was
hard to handle, but Newtown managed to keep its
grip of it sufficiently to put up a good exhibition
ot combined play. Glebe dropped it all over the
place; and the result was victory for Newtown by
seven points to three. Annandale put up its usual
bright game against Western Suburbs. This plucky
team, the baby of the crowd, always plays a good
sterling game in spite of the persistent bad luck
that has brooded over its efforts. West Sydney
won by 11 to six points. Balmain’s struggle with
North Sydney was splashed out on the mud flat
known as Birehgrove Ova 1. Both teams were sports
and hauled one another out impartially when bogged.
Each declined to cross the line, and each kicked
two penalty goals. They made a drawn game with
four points each. So the result is that East Sydney,
the only unbeaten team of the bunch, is far ahead
in the competition with 12 points to the eight of
South Sydney and Glebe. Newtown is creeping up
with seven and North Sydney has six. It is. not
necessary to search below the six level. Any mining
man will tell you that deep sinking seldom pays.
If the League players had a bad time the
Union men had a worse, on account of having to
play on inferior grounds. The result was that the
games were mostly scrambles and insane mixtures.
Tactics and passing charges were just about im-
possible. The chief contest of the afternoon was
that between East Sydney and Newtown. As a
rule Newtown walks over East Sydney under Union
rules; but on this day the advantage was with
the heavier Eastern team, wffiich won out by 10
points to three. Balmain found itself stamped flat
by University to the tune of 24 points to three, a
truly awful event under Union rules. Glebe had a
great struggle at Manly, where it managed to climb
over the Village team by six to nil. South Sydney’s
defeat of St. George was a nice, quietly decisive
victory by 10 to six; and North Sydney just man-
aged to upset West Sydney by three points to nil.
As in the League Competition, East Sydney is the
only unbeaten club, and heads the Union list with
14 points. Newtown and North Sydney have 10
each. University is holding its aching head with
only eight, and so is South Sydney, while Glebe has
but six. Glebe’s grief is tempered not by the re-
flection that there are four clubs below' it with less.
It isn’t w'orth their while to hold their aching heads.
Their heads aren’t worth holding.
In the Australian Rules division North
Sydney got Paddington’s head under the slush and
swam to the surface of things with 62 points to Pad-
dington’s 47. It was an interesting struggle, as.both
teams were commanded by tacticians, but the North
Sydney G.O.C. proved to have the better ideas of the
tw'o. At Hampden Oval, which, contrary to general
ideas, was in better condition than most of the battle
grounds, owing to the fall of the country and the
artificial drainage, South Sydney went for Sydney
District with bald-headed fury and its mouth open,
and its tail up, and its false teeth in its pocket for
fear of accidents. But the Southern organisation
w-as far from perfect, and the attack failed for want
of systematic support. Sydney repulsed it, and then
let loose its own system and overwhelmed
the wild individualists from the South by 49 to 18.
East Sydney had dead and buried luck. It w r as to
meet New 7 town at the big new' ground at Mascot.
New'town got there early, and so did a portion of
the Eastern team. The rest were held up for an hour
by a derailed tram, and the fragment on the ground
refused to face the goal-hungry-looking Newtown
crowd, which hung out its tongue as it gazed raven-
ously on the Eastern fragment. The umpire bounced
the ball, Newtown kicked a goal, and the game was
won, six to nil.
“BOX ON"—“BANG”—“OUT."
The fight that lasted 35 seconds at Sydney
Stadium. Herb McCoy (Vic.) settles Joe
Russell (Q.).
The Soccer crowd in Sydney went slow
on Saturday. Most of the grounds on which its
matches are held were in a state of quagmire, said
by some authorities to be liable to swallow up a
whole team and yell for more. So only two matches
of the Rawson Cup Competition were played off,
between Sydney and Granville and Newtown and
Canterbury. The first match took place at Epping,
and was a stubborn contest with plenty of excite-
ment, out of which Sydney climbed laboriously to
the position of top dog with five goals to three.
Newtown journeyed out to Sydenham, where it
found Canterbury awaiting it in battle array and
its feet in the water, and fell upon it, got it down,
and drowned it by seven goals to one. The body has
not yet been recovered.
* * * *
Melbourne’s League hoofball last week
was decisive, in several ways. Fresh from its vic-
tory over South, ’Roy went across to Collingwood
on King's Birthday and returned with the scalps of
the hitherto undefeated Magpies, scoring a 10-point
victory; and on Saturday it took Carlton by the
forelock and handed it the worst walloping of the
lot, 99 points to 64 being the measure thereof.
Simultaneously, South avenged itself on ’Wood for
its defeat by 'Roy. Taking full charge in the last
quarter, it piled on four superfluous goals, or there-
abouts—South 10 goals 15 behinds, to ’Wood’s 7
goals 9 behinds. South's marking and kicking are
faulty, but the team loves itself like a brother, and
works together in unity—at present. St. Kilda put
up a mighty scrap with Geelong, and by bogging in
managed to win a fair game by seven points—7B to
Geelong's 71. Essendon got a grip on Melbourne, and
piled up 71 to 30; but as ’Don has to win every
game left in order to reach the finals, it will pro-
bably burst before the effort is completed. Rich-
mond notched 83 points to the Students’ 40, but
that match hardly mattered. The Students seem to
suffer from the unwholesome tripe served to them
by certain press barrackers—that they are a great
team afflicted with bad luck. With the first half
of the round of home-and-home matches now com-
pleted, ’Rov, South, 'Wood and Carlton stand on the
top rungs.' with half a game between each. St.
Kilda, a game and a half worse off than Carlton,
still has a chance. The rest are practically outed.
The position in the Ass. game is a shade more
open, inasmuch as six clubs still have chances.
'Scray is on top. North and P'ran stand each half
a game lower. ’Don has one win less; then Bruns-
wick and ’Town follow with half a game to debit.
'Cote, Brighton, Port and Melbourne City are Mud.
On Saturday ’Scray pleased its supporters by keep-
ing within cooee of P’ran throughout the argument,
and then galloping away in the last term. It fin-
ished with 61 points to 47. The Brunswick Brickies
surprised their barrackers by keeping the whip hand
of Essendon all the afternoon, 55 to 40. Wick has
evidently been holding deep converse with itself these
last few weeks, and the result now shows up.
North made an unsanctified show of Port, 95 to 2b.
’Cote spilled the Citizens in the soup once more 60
to 35; and Town utterly drowned Brighton—9l to
21. ,
During the week the various tribunals sharp-
ened their axes and got busy. For mistaking the hoof-
ball field for the boxing 'ring, Carlton’s captain was
passed out till Aug. 1, and a North Melbourne
player for the rest of the season. But official leni-
ency has previously been so marked that the law
has at last begun to speak. Last week its remarks
ran thus: £3 and costs to a Port player for assault;
£2 and costs to a ’Town youth for insulting an
umpire: £5 and costs to a Melbourne player for
assaulting a Carlton bogger-in. Thus is the Ul-
regulated youth discouraged and the revenue in-
creased, which is always a desirable circumstance.
* * * *
The arrival of Maoriland sportsman Dr.
Thacker in Sydnev in charge of the Rugby League
footballers has had an electrifying effect on Richard
Arnst. The doctor has been one of Arnst’s financiers
throughout his sculling career, and as a result of h.s
call to Sydnev, Richard is on the war-trail once
more. The winner of the Barry-Pearce match has
already been challenged, and Jim Paddon has been
marked for slaughter, provided satisfactory terms
can be arranged. The doctor is firm on the proviso
that Richard must place himself unreservedly in the
hands of a competent mentor, and train like the
Devil; a thing he hates even as Satan is understood
to hate a certain fluid found about churches.
Sydney lacrosse put on a fresh garment
last Saturday. Sydney and Eastern Suburbs, both
of which had wallowed only in victory' hitherto,
met. The softness of the underfootage hampered
the freedom of the play and bogged the chances of
Sydney, the members of which seemed more anxious
not to spoil their beautiful clothes than to win the
game. So the mudlarks of Eastern Suburbs overran
them and shed their collars in the mire by eight
goals to nil. Burwood surprised Birehgrove, and
outed it bv three to two, and Mosman bashed Manly
by eight to nil, a favorite score on Saturday. Peter-
sham scoffed at University by five to nil. So the
first section of the competition ends with Eastern
Suburbs undefeated, well in advance of everything.
The nearest are Sydney, Petersham and Birehgrove
—the rest nowhere.
* * * *
Lane Cove, hitherto undefeated in the
baseball competition, fell over its own feet, or some-
thing on Saturday. It struck Waverley, which had
already suffered defeat three times, and could do
no better than make a draw of it with three runs.
Petersham and University produced the same sort
of animal with four runs apiece. Mosman gave
Leichhardt food for remorse in the shape of a score
of nine runs to three. And Leichhardt was premier
club last year. Paddington and Burwood met at
Rydalmere, but as it would have been a swimming
contest, the teams stay'ed in the pavilion and told
stories about dogs. In the competition Lane Cove
leads with 11 points. Mosman looks over its shoulder
with 10. Petersham and Leichhardt reasonably
handy with seven each. The rest is mere tail.
* * * *
C.R.L.H., the man who started the
rescue, writes: “Concerning the capsize of the 14-
footer Dart in Sydney Harbor Sunday week, I hap-
pen to be the bloque fortunate enough to note the
capsize. I also admit to being mad enough to have
been fishing in the rain without getting a bite. In
last Bulletin the two men in the motor-boat were
referred to in uncomplimentary terms. I think they
should be poleaxed. The motor-boat was painted
white, was about 25ft. long, and apparently name-
less, as well it might be. When I told the men in
it of the capsize they mumbled that their engine
was not equal to the strain. So we went out in the
skiff. When we had grot two of the men from the
wreck the motor-boat came tearing along, and we
indicated to the occupants that they had better take
off the remaining and heaviest of the crew, as our
skiff had shipped a lot of water. The skunks merely
laughed and kept on the way towards Manly. I
think this sort of thing should be punishable; but
as it apparently is not, I hereby pronounce on those
motor-boat men the fishermen’s curse, “May their
gills turn green and their dying bed be made of a
hundred-thousand up-turned fish-hooks.”
* * * *
“The Tout” writes from Melbourne re
an expensive municipal election:—
Ter oughter seen Sam Allen trainin’ for the St.
Kilda Municiperl Stakes. Sam ’isself ain’t much of
a noritter about polerticks an - fings, so ’e got a
spruiker cove to lead ’im in ’is. gallops round the
corse, an’ w'en they come to a ’ouse wot wasn’t a
pal’s, the spruiker would say to the lvdy or gent.:
“This ’ere is Mister Sam Allen, the Prergressive
Canderdate,” just like intrerdoosin’ a champion to
the publick at a boxin’ match. Sam would just bow
to the blanky voter, in a prergressive manner an’
offer to take 6to 4he named the winner. But w’en
they come to a ’ouse of a bruwer bookev, or any
uwer good sport, the boss of the establishment wud
say: “Well, Sam, ’are yer got time for a gargle?”
An’ Sam ’ud rerplv: “No, I don’t drink w’en I’m
eampaning. but ’ave a cigar wif me.” And then "e
guv the bloke one of ’is fattist. On the day of the
fite Sam’s crowd ’ad mot ers tootin’ all over the
blanky shop, and everybody was tooted to the blanky
poll. Some of the cars was billed, “Vote for R. A.
Molesworth,” who seemed a good enuf canderdate,
though not prergressive. like Sam. Well, the votin’
took place in a tent behind a hoardin’, an’ there
was Sam, smokin’ cigars an’ arstin’ his backers ’ow
he wus shapin’ in the battle. Judgin’ from the
Noses wot come along in the moters, the blokes
reckemd as Sam ’ud just abowt win on points. But,
strike me pink ! w’en the numbers goes up the Prer-
gressives gets the shock of their blanky lives: —
Mr. Molesworth .. . . 1119
Mr. Sam Allen .. .. 412
Sam wasn’t there at the time. P’raps ’e got the
strate tip that the uwer bloke was too good for
’im. He come up soon afterwards, an’ sez, “I’m
sorry I’m late; but I wish to say it wus a fair
fite.” Then the two canderdates shakes ’ands, an’
the losers paid up their bets. Everybody seemed
satisfied except my mate, wot I’d advised to back
Sam at even money. “Clean fite!” sez ’e. “Clean
fite be blanked! It was a clean blanky knock-out!”
I sez, “Ain’t ’e got no eharnce of winnin' on a pro-
test?” “Pro-test be blanked!” sez my mate. “Why,
’e’s done like a dinner. If ’e ain’t lorst his blanky
derposit, he oughter!”
• * * *
Fred Merton has won a race in Adelaide
at last, and his bad luck had been so notorious that
there was much cheering In 1912. visiting Adelaide
for the Cup and Birthday meetings, he got second
money five times. This year, Penza was second three
times at Morphettville, and once more on the Old
Course. Merton’s horses ran third in the Adelaide
Cup both years, and this year Aurifer was third in
both Cups. So a win outright in the Alderman Cup
(worth £440) was about “up to” both horse and
owner.
* * * *
The V.R.C. Committee was lately asked
to decide a novel question. At Kyneton on March
17, Ma Gosse had a walk-over in the Pastoria Handi-
cap. With a 71b. penalty she came out for, and
won. the next race, the Drummond Welter, starting
at 10 to 1 against Now, Ma Gosse had been backed
for that meeting “first start,” and there was argu-
ment as to whether Abraham Shortodds should pay
out 10 to 1 or nothing. The club committee put it
that, had Ma Gosse lost the second race, the
backers, in the light of the 71b. penalty, would in-
fallibly have denied their intention to back her for
that race, wherefore her first start was the “walk-
over.” Verdict accordingly, money to be returned.
* * * *
N.S.W. Novice cross-country champion-
ship at Sydney on Saturday was over roadways and
sandhills, through marsh and mud—a most horrible
business that could have been more pleasantly H
on horseback save for the discomfort to the' hrm”*
The winner won fame and praise; but the other an
starters deserve a halo for the weariness of fle s
which they endured in pursuit of the bubble
transient glory. It was an easy win for Ken Fnsto
who finished 28sec. ahead of A. C. Elliot, strueirW
and ploughing through the slush and soil in
30sec. The “teams” championship was a eakpuJi!;
for East Sydney with 16 points against Hornshv
Church's 39 and Marrickville’s 79. Ken Foster th
winner, is a lad of 16, and belongs to a tribe which
has made the pace in novice cross-countrv event,
C. C. Foster won in 1911, Ken Foster ran 16th in
1911, fourth in 1912 and landed the millions n
1913. Sure and not too slow, considering what a
stripling he is.
The Continental Road Race from Goul-
burn to Ashfield (131 miles) is to be run on Mon
day, 23rd inst. The co. has made all arrangements
to supply the cyclists with proper food during the
race, and heads the prize list with open orders for
20 guineas. There are 11 other prizes of various
sorts. The event is an amateur one, and is one of
the events which will serve to indicate a retirement,,,
tive for the next Olympiad.
“K.’s” post-mortem: The Australian
tennis trio had bad enough luck to strike America in
the first preliminary round for the Davis Cup, but thev
had worse luck in permitting A. B. Jones to catch
a severe cold a week before the match. If there'*
not already a law making ill-timed colds illegal
there ought to be. That cold meant a lot—so much
that the Australians were able to lay their hand*
on only one rubber (the doubles) to America’s four
Doust (captain) selected himself and Rice for the
singles, and Jones and himself for the doubles, re-
serving the right to change his mind at the eleventh
hour and play Jones in the singles, if the cold per
m tted. Evidently it didn’t. It’s a pitv, for A.B
is, without a doubt, Rice’s superior in both singles
and doubles, and the fact that the cable regards him
as “easily the star” in the “most sensational tennis
ever seen in America” shows that he was in good
nick. However, it is doubtful whether he could hav«
won both singles, and nothing less would have pulled
Australia’s chariot out of the fire, or dragged the
tennis ashes from the mud. U.S.A. relied on
McLoughlin and Williams for the singles and
Hackett and McLoughlin for the doubles; and its
confidence wasn’t misplaced, for McLoughlin won
both his singles in three straight sets, and Williams
beat Doust three sets to one, and Rice three to
two. The Rice-Williams rubber, which couldn’t have
any effect on the result of the tie, Australia being
already hopelessly out of it, was the only decent
show the Australians made in the singles,' and the
final figures were I—6, 4 —6, 6—l, 9— 7', 6—2 in
favor of the American. The doubles went to Aus-
tralia, 2—6, 6—2, 5 —7, 6—2, 9—7, making 52
games in all. McLoughlin, in • particular, seems to
have provided the Australians with more than thev
could chew, his service and smash being particularly
tough morsels; and as Williams also owns a well-
lubricated smash which worried Doust and co.,
therein lies the cause of the defeat.
As to the other ties, the Germans came out of the
bag and beat the French badly, and are a day’s
march nearer the Cup. The Canadian-African match
has been held up for a while. The Australian trio
now move on to England in search of scalps, and
anyone who mentions Davis Cup or cough mixture tn
them during the next few months will be regarded
as unfriendly.
* * * *
The newest find in Maoriland sport is a
North Canterbury giant, alleged to be the founda-
tion of a world top-notcher. He is 19 years of age.
kicks the beam at 12st. 101 b. ; measures 39in. round
the chest, and is an all-round sport. The only thing
known against him is that he has an unbeaten
record as a pigeon murderer; but being young, he
may live that down.
LINES TO A DEAD NIGGER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Apparently Johnson is finished, down and out. The
last batch of Yankee papers to hand never mention
his name once.—B. June 5/’IS.
Brudder, you are dead and done for!
Though you had a fairish run for
Your spondulicks, which you won for
Battering the white pugs, who
Metaphoric’ly you've “eaten” —
(Prowess even death should sweeten !),
Now, at length, by whites you’re beaten—
Mutton’s not so dead as you !
Life to you was paragraphic,
Now no more reporters traffic
In your doings—your seraphic,
Gold-stopped smile is valueless!
Dead men tell no tales w'orth reading;
Brudder, not a soul is heeding
You henceforth. You’re dead and needing
No more puffing in the press.
Brudder, now you’re gone, no glory
Hangs around your dusky story:
V And so long have you been mori-
Bund, your end no one surprised.
Moral—which can not be doubted —-
Take this from the world you flouted:
E’en a- champion boxer's “outed,”
When he’s no more advertised!
VICTORIA.
EARDLEY TURNER.


LEARN TO BOX SKILFULLY
AND BE A WINNER 1
i
i
I
i
i
i
i
i
i
1
1
1
1
l
1
I
i
i
i
I
i
I
i
f
1
i
1
i
i
i
1
I
1
§
i
i
i
i
1
i
i
111 l
i
i
Here is what one pupil reported:—
The skilful boxer has a great advantage
over his opponent.
Because he applies his strength scientifically
—does the right thing at the right moment—•
takes good care to reserve his powers, sees
that his opponent’s blows lash the air or land
on his gloves.
How unfortunate it’d be for you to engage
a skilful Boxer. Why, you’d be in doubt
about a man of your own weight and skill.
Surely, you ought to cease being a target
for a good Boxer.
Learn to be a skilful Boxer. There’s no
reason for you to remain “crude.” I can
teach you in your own home.
I TEACH BOXING
BY POST
My methods are as thorough as is possible
—everything is as plaift as plain can be. The
instruction is simple and efficient. It will
teach you to be a hard-hitting boxer, with
an excellent defence. You will be taught
how to compel your adversary to leave open-
ings. You’ll cultivate the habit of keeping
yourself “covered” at all times.
“1 lad a spar with a chap here the other night. He lost his headpiece, and went for me
like a good one. It was good practice for me while it lasted, but that was not for long.”
J. 0., Tenterfield, N.S.W.
You’re missing a fine lot of pleasure. Hadn’t you better write for further particulars as regards
fees, etc.? Ask for a copy of my interesting booklet, “Scientific Boxing in Your Home.” Kindly
send threepence in stamps for postage.
REG. E. (“Snowy”) BARER,
204 Belmont Buildings,
CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
IF
YOU WILL go in for
Sport,
YOU WILL go in for Best
Material,
YOU WILL always obtain
this at
L.W.DODGEBCO.
SYDNEY SPORTS STORES,
NOW LOCATED AT
10 & 12 HUNTER ST.,
SYDNEY.
‘SHELL’
BENZINE
THE CLEAN
AND
POWERFUL SPIRIT
FOR ALL MOTORS
fpi . T
Fits “Wonder” has
No "Bromide of Potash.”
Safe, Certain Cure —
6 Bottles posted 17/2.
Write for particulars—
T. H. MERSON,
16 Hunter St.. Sydney, &
229 Collins St., Melbourne.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant-
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.O.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts ol the world.
A MILD CIGAR
that is
Excellent
Value !
That’s so, my
Cabinet
Castelares
are nice, mild smokes,
and are truly excellent
value.
They have a fine flavor
and a most pleasing
aroma.
n hev are put up in
handsome Cedar Cabi-
net s, containing 50
Cigars.
Price, 21/- Postage,
N.S.W., 9d.: other
States, 1/2.
MY ILLUSTRATED
CATALOG shows a
fine range of good
Cigars, Cigarettes,
Tobaccos, etc. Send
for a copy to-day-
free on request.
hgf
Actual Siz*
A. M. SOLOMON,
CIGAR EXPERT,
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
:: THE NEW ::
AUSTRALIAN NIB
GOLDEN WATTLE
ssa
DOES NOT BREAK OR CORRODE, AND
WRITES WITHOUT HARSHNESS AND
SCRATCHING. IT HELPS TO FORM
THE LETTERS NEATLY, SO AS TO GIVE
CHARACTER TO THE WRITING. LADIES
LIKE IT FOR ITS SILKEN SMOOTHNESS.
SIXPENCE PER BOX
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND DEALERS
Wholesale Agent
ROBERT HUTTON
521 FLINDERS LANE
: MELBOURNE :
THE Australian Magazine—THE LONE
HAND. The National Monthly. Price. 6<l.
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
L. & F. CO., LIMITED.
Wi
Secure Highest Market Rates
for all consignments of Wool,
Wheat, Hides, Skins and Tallow
entrusted to them and render
returns promptly.
rwi
BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Many Men Wear Rigney Shoes
because they see no object in paying more,
and can’t afford to pay less, because they are
satisfied only with the most stylish, best-
made and perfect-fitting footwear.
The Shoe illustrated is a dark tan Willow
Calf Derby Shoe. Rope stitched welts:
I*;6, 21/-, 22/6, 25/-
Also, in Black, 19/6, 21/-, 22/6 and
25/-
Postage, 9d. extra.
Write for a copy of our NEW Catalog.
w
i'S JJ.
The Rig'ney £hoe Co.,
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
305 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY;
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, MELBOURNE.
TYRES
here's nothing
Me Vhem for
Wear & Reliabilityl '
Obtainable all Oarages •••
!S •: ;
m
mi
mm
. ,
C
ffttl'iiSiS
L 01m ng
mm
am
7
“Billy T.” : The lady picapocket is pros-
pering in Melbourne, and John Hop is mak-
ing poor progress with her. She is often of
smart rig, and treats her victim with such
subtle arts that, after it is all over, the poor
fellow can scarcely believe he has been
touched. It is like having one’s purse pulled
with gas. The other night a nice little
thing, not more than fiye-foot-one, with brown
hair and eyes, fashionably coated and skirted,
asked respectful questions of a tall gentle-
man in dark grey near the corner of Eliza-
beth and Little Collins streets. It seemed
that she had mislaid her address, or it may
have been her religion, and wanted advice
and guidance from a trustworthy person with
kind eyes. Mutual exchanges had only just
begun, when a third party intervened, with
some show of excitement, and a clatter of loud
remarks. “I seen yeh!” he said. “I seen
yeh!” and seized the lady rudely. The lady
beheld him with lofty scorn and calm dis-
gust and asked him how he dared. The tall
gent, in dark grey was a cavalier quick in
action. Ilis neat left caught the intruder
on the point, and the intruder crumpled up
on the roadside. “Dear me, this is very
dreadful!’’ wailed the nice little thing. “I
really must not be mixed up in a street
brawl.” She left. It took the tall gent,
two or three minutes to restore the man
who was down and out, and another five
minutes to get an explanation of his shame-
ful treatment of the lady. “It wasn’t no
business of mine,” said the man with the
sore jaw. “I saw she was goin’ through you,
that’s all.” Investigation demonstrated to
the tall gentleman’s satisfaction that he had
been gone through. He had only seven shil-
lings and a silver matchbox left, and it took
more than that to repair the sore jaw.


Sore Throat and Influenza
THE COMMONEST WINTER COMPLAINTS:
THEIR PREVENTION AND CURE.
When the days are cold an d wet in wirier. disease
Crms hive a nnch "eater power over nan tear
they have in summer. The reason :s that cn:.. ana
camp lower the vitality ana render the body less
liable to withstand the attach ot the perms ana to
destroy tnem
Alliorph Natnre has mate a wonderful i rows: on
■:' meet tm - - _ " • - a - a
certain parades of the blood the mtsston to eat np
these intruders, the warmth ana noisrrre tn the
bach of the month and throat enable the perms to
develop with extraordinary rapidity Each perm
divides into two m twenty m: antes. so that, in the
course of a few nouns, a staple perm will have rro-
dneed hundreds of thousands.
If the body is tn a pood state of health, the perms
are cestrc; ed very socn after betnp inhaled sc that
they prodnee no ill-effects.
When. however the system is below par cr
weahened by ary cause. the perms easily overcome
the ceteudinp forces m the Hood, ana we pet the
pamor'-ar disease they produce.
It is in this ■way : sere trro»£t-
'.rrrerra. and bad colds anse.
Obviocsly the only r ears o: cere
arte prever.tioa is to iestioy tie
gqas ia the aoatb aid throat.
Of the hitherto te-
rser by Science ::r rrodroir.: this
res i : r;; _ oar. retire ~'.:t
c s •
y — . i-v-d y admitte t ry tie meet cal
pro: ess.: or.
Many lb ' ~ in-
e'.rd'.rc several to or - nee. rears c:
Europe, have nrrittea to tie rro-
rretors stattre that they mvar.ah.y
rse Wchrps Eire an r.t for treat-
irc sore throat Tie reason is that
roth.ro destroys tie perms so. rar er
arc completely.
Tits -R-fcs first proved r;> a tare: rs
scaentisi vre remo eo. some vtrc.ert
terms o: d.r heierna the throat
of a patient seriously ill wfli that
disease, arc mixed t_ei_ o.-tr a
se'.rtro*c ©: o ocrramirt. Vn itiix
ter minutes they were all killed. In spite of
this. Fcmamdrt is not offered as a dfcre :or
diphtheria, although :t will undoubtedly prevent
that dread complaint and other serious perm-
diseases^
The Prevention of Diphtheria-
This fact is vouched for by many sanitary
inspectors. The sanitary inspector of High
Wycombe, England, writes: "I know of no other
preparation so effectral :n preventing infectious
disease as Wulfiag's Fimam:nr Earing an out-
break of diphtheria I have rrecrertly given away
Fomarrin: to those who have been in contact with
the disease, and no other cases have been removed
to hosntal frcn the same household. T* nenever
onr ambulance is ordered out :or the removal of an
infections case. Fcmanirt always accompanies
usd
Many amities have appeared in the medical
oarers pointing cm Fcrmammt's supreme excel-
lence in the cere of sore throat- In Th-c Pra-c-
tiizemer the Chief Medical Officer of cne of the
largest Infections Diseases* Hospitals in the world
writes: " I have never had sere throat myself since
I reran tc use WuHutg's Fcmamart- although 1
srffered periodically before."
A writer in the "Lancet states " 1 have had the
best results from the nsec: Fcrmammt
Tablets.-
Fir- I
?-_r _
TEI tEfcftS OF WLBERU SLL* TEI KKKtSCOK.
:a~ muiX|£ tjsjis port xciiac w jo sagas
;tc: XXA "1 yatf "5nzicr»3 f'rrpsssjr: w:
pc j;ani *u' tt THanrare icas-nns-
in- >»•«•< z ®y oio e .anti-' f: \vwlj:
icmcar nr - - rt ump»ra a_rc;,m a
tc i.-ncp mo ax sifc.-'TRiisJ set- i*ctrs i -fy
fB&ggfc Fit 5 ;i*s szczre &xraniam ac '-to;
i-ams vusr _tot n~aocai4£ erormi r.ai sw kuwc
n± rtK u.~cm n i iie-sm. wnr toBi srszi-tst frwc
I-xsaEiLs: tEiuas fecnak irwincsi' Tr.ici
aWiLiEr*
cisaesei i® &es=-r;-=s£ rto; Btnm rt a
It should be noted, howerer. that trly Wr-trcs
Formamint produces sadi results. Nhre ot the
n-.anv imitations racar or the market nil do mj.
How valueless they --re is sht-wr ty a physdan.
who -writes tint he “ has trier six s -diliilfs, aad
r.ss. not fame ore ot trerr etrracicrs-
Rem ark atie Concensus of Optnion.
The sociai -testimony to For~ amirt 5 ~2_ne is z~
remarkable as the medical. Ns prepararrr. ntth
the single exception of Faratogem Writ * =**
ty the sane firm, has recerced srth ttstiagr^ed
testimonials.
The Right Hon. Viscount Massereerear i Fena-:
writes: "I hare tome h’frlrrg a F orrrttrtr. tao£
effective for the ctrre of sere throat, Wrier r—tx.y
disappears after using a tew tablets.
The Right Hon. Lore Glance -writes: ~y-t«
been rserg Waitings Fr-mannt tor sere tirre-a
with mast satisfactory resrlrsh
The Right Ho*. Lord Khegsare ” 1“.;
mv family use entte a ranker oz .*z-y*s-
Fcmanirt Tablets, ari rrd them ah yen: seJ
always carry- a goodly r rm:>er tr —
recommended them tc mar; nee-*-
As to their value in trr terra err -~^ 5
ar der writes; “Ftmamirt . ablets ra "j
eernart ccnpsartcrs imrg the wir js. ar - h
terra them a damgerrrs eremy tr toe zsssev*
fe^d.
T r O
of s 2
rref tie
t n.i
> r X) z. —
-t-
-._- M.F-. Scr Glxr- ?*&
-. yirs.
T>-
nciiey. re
B-T - «— "*•
ore&rc a»®*-- s - w
\££G£Z- z
u:
22 3X.£Xy -2£—^
""3DSE>- £= ~ rCS
g- — ~ p ££ V Dior »-E~- r *s^
21- - o* the -voice xxf k ~ J " : * fc '^.
of sore dans is *
peerages
2V— ■-—.--t y rmiEH-Xi iz>i- ‘
of ill Cisnuss* 1*** v
bottle. A ftet J - - *
v-br Iw ‘
»* TO cve^ r - iiess*
—c£ n her art wne -
• -T- -,-, ■- t- rav 7". •>-
A. 'H A - - g.'Lrn*-
Syire; -zii*?
LZ Z i : : •> “ v : : ‘ \ ... f
l « **
¥i' OS XO£
sjl :x;
r-asx.
A ewiflf i Cyrii Kt ckik' and
wire. Ethel Dane. ire picatine.-t n The
nmm.i ~~ at Lwta Strud —a merry farce which
Jxte like having as vr>;>r :if .. .arcer :> nre-
«essw wsder The same Toanagemeut. "The Glad
Eye.~ in wfeksh Mss IViue *K’ ioiwi 1 -
Aaoiht crop i"j<rri«wr> htvin; h«o txffn.
Keicule* hi' teer tell r crew that h - to ther wa>
the "her «*e - there ."vaJirk i tv-; .lent described by
Roll Eoifcitawd n Kofctxri Under .Vm>' as *A riie
for «»«•."' Orril That the scrcy (•: his
mother's • ea 3 bsr.rs t: re-id hie _ reutrat;:*.
"Hogan" from L c- xr : L or j ot. Gaiety 's "Ctrl
m the Film." thocgh it is the hst no**! comedy
in ninth the meting |*twe plays _* JnAp P ut -
Edwanies's "Girls.' Tbs sr cry is irun is jsni-
lt rums upoe. 'he hiss yiycil erased: ■:' b.r> - " ar.:
the miller's tauchter. which is 'e::c .ioewsatn-
u~sphed near a «cbct raill. The gsr Te miller
ccwes upon The so-ne is Thinks ihe b> s ra=
—I hi! England hi' real! beer. -.rv*deu r:r-
-:' £»'s wGr-euTV'T. There ;--• ilirss an. 'as.
and the v:" rers are cal' - :-_i : rspel rhe i’.Ti.-i
with TctehioTksc N less than r~e camp-sars colli b-
wnfced in samex choruses and waXm-s.
which caehi r; be a recorr The vdect was well
reraced. u. - g :>e s;t_ ~~V ~r -' V rhee. whxh
ioc some reason cc ocher was boote* t 1 The tutst-
-TctsT rtVy. Arrur-r"'- s:<—■e :* The '“bbrys"
rarvbet They saw as mstn't to Irelanr is ir.
•%'-~i' C‘: Gregi'. V V ■" •'• 0 rx-e ' - ST
The er.Th.>Tism r : - ' : > -- -'' it V - AThen-
J "»e dh This thee be wiH rsTesra* a ~. r-
Tvg.uliT ball than usaa.l w th "FinrW Fttsc Pj&t~
- • - • v i- ; ' ' ■ He L'-:*i ' ’ t -s
band" s> a minor diversion. Fanny will demonstrate
her dramatic talent for three nights, but the deeep-
t;:t: cf Aurora's hubby will have to share an evening
with Si;Hermann's “Fritiehen” and Maeterlinck's "In-
terior." The latter playlets seem strange company
for the Shaw pleasantry, for ‘•F'ritnehen'' is a typical
hit .: Sudermania. while "Interior" is a deathly item
wherein Maeterlinck has every quality of the under-
taker's mute, bar the latter's immemorial gift of
silence.
The winter right air of Melbourne was the death
of Erskine Scon. and West's Pictures w.ll
know that genial manager no more. Scott, who
came c: tough stock, and seemed as hard as the
proverbial nails, apart room his chest complaint,
had been a martyr to asthma and bronchitis for
many years, and be died of them- AO his l:fe—from
his vrp young days when he studied for the law
in Er; . i—he was a i-hc-wman. in one capacity or
other. ~ He was in the theatrical profeslu when he
married F i rer.ce peyr.votir. the ha: is c- leading la y
in several well-renembeicd companies of yore, who
is now left a widow. Fc-r some years Erskine Scott
. as a dvance agent or press . gent with the cite .ses—
-1 .re alls' in the first place and then V. :rths\
Finally, he a t settled in Melbourne with tt est s
Pictures, and when 4. A. Miller retired from
the :> ness manager-'er.t. he pasßed the tide; along
to Erskine Scott. There was something in the ap-
pearance of this del - air shrwman — a certain re-
- • lar.ee i s ..e ancient t ortraits : : ore or less
ao. ‘v. .—which s .prone* his claim to be a direct
s-r-ndant cf Kira lames VI. and 1 - and a remote
via; ve of the various illegitimate hikes '*ee Hen
by Charles. gran 'son of the above. Anyhow, if he
hi _ . 1 ;ie <h;oc:'.:v. against the present
reigning family. The Bullet rs would Kaee given
Krsk v >. n its 1 ;yal s ir-rcrt. As King Erskine 1
be would have filled the bill.
A very direct reply that Gense made to a Mel-
bourne interviewer is also an indirec-t reply to the
. . ■ if civv-.r lab ; in Australia's sultry lari-
tisles "If 1 do come from a cold country.’’ an-
swered Gente, "it is not to say that I like the cold-"
t--nee wttili so rer be dancing in the tropics than
trying ;> keep herself warm through a Winnipeg
v. inter- It is the same with the jockey beys who
have been a couple of years in India. After getting
•,v: t the hottest ktnd of work they have ■'no use
tor winter." even in Australia.
"0.K.": The ami-bams. orrny method which rules
the Aniftii-r stage is more - r ctive. but hardly
mote nat rah than the robustious utterances of
British le-H'w drama. Pevrle do speak up. as a rale,
when excited —or. anyhow, they don't drop their
vexes to a 1:-t. rvor ore. Male "crooks" and
women of the less refined classes are especially *m-
lisrit to express their e*:oori:rs gsrrt'v. yes Morrison,
who plays an habitual criminal in "'Within the law."
made himself rurelv audtole in its rrsr nights at
Melbourne K vaL He Fecame less unconvincing a-;.er
he was advised to raise rts viiee a Irnle. Abo
Muriel Starr, when s : t> so ti b; ir at hystertical
state. so'ferine an awful sense of injustice in the
first act. or b -rorsxraci It the murder cf the "srool-
t : an the ireste®oe of his corns;, talk' in batec
more-tone. It is all very well to the ear. this silent-
Vax - ~.r s t ;f,£onng. bat it assr'i tear tbit--
t-jg rver. Piswisef tnetatrama Secftves inly the
. -iV-ss. One tames that " right seem, truer t: life
if produced it its natural r>rm. naked, 3 rod and
tma^tatred.
".' F.H " Lot*'or. : Piss?: out- Magifian Fercat-
one-thne Atsm&t pressman. His real same was Chsater.
ant he canoe of at English naval family that pr*to-00-i
ary amount cf a rnirals and At 14. the
vomester was sett t' to; Mcitt-orranenn -r»h ii.
thcr tinder the tcrr.ru-' ; of hts mde. Berne ir-
valioot home, be wen; to Australia. where be 3v?d
a vi gab- ov life in the b-* v an t rwnnd the go I F
fields fnr five wears. In he tried kraraal-
ir mixed wtth e t rr: trtiis. then bad a rstrrsn
>• ■ ' ' •
rralia with a bttV kt of his own. ETantSy he
:-:--'STnte ; :m oor+arinc rook the name of F-serat.
••v-.. - -- • . -
A' *er? an varieev bouses. B t the mins of bis cos-
sttr t or a t rim icwr a few rears age*, and bis
russet almost out of recoUectt on.
From London: The most talked pic-mre m
this 'ears Koval Academy is Edgar Bundy =
••Finance" —a huge canvas depicting a group ot 801 l
Cohens, almost life-sire, gathered rr ™d a
ouslv-laden and decorates table, engaged in been
&4Lu of some further scheme f<*
Gentiles. The art critic of the
owned by a Christianised Jew, or Pors Hrtrew,
Levi, afterwards Lawson, now Lord
angrily calls it "a passionate assertion in I»™?*
anri-S^niiisn«’ J though hurts • 1 . -
the "repulsive deliberately c&ose® and deUb-
e-telv SaggeratcL" Somebody eke suggests that
tustralia or Maori sand should boy the picture 'with
an lOIT, of course, so that the Dreadnoughts ni.gbt
see what manner of men their good, kind uncles
and bow benevolent they are sure to find than when
the States cmne with anpty Lao- tcrr. l« £e -
to renew the bilL
"Vagabond” tfrom Lr ion): The Lcmdon Opera
House, which was built by Hammersteui, of > >«•*-
with the object of routing Covait Garden. rat tatiea
to deliver the goods, has just re-opened witn "t'.we
Over Here.” a new revue. The show is gorgeously
starred and mranted. Tee dresser 1 - Ant the
inside the dresses! 1 ! And the parts :: the SI 1 / 5
that are outside the dresses 1 1!! WeD. there. The
feature of the revue is a scene where a motor-car
races an express train. A cinema s>:w = the ear
taking the bit in its teeth and bolting along tne roam,
aivi - >cr, the flicker screen goes up and she ws the
railwav jancrion. The lights of the tram appear
in the iistance, and then the pin-prick :ghts of the
E -..-.- - The -• ts twist most effectively across the
dark background, growing larger as tiny approach.
The whistle of the train and the bani-hema . the
car. and the rattle and rush of the approach are all
weirdly realistic- The liah.s swing .fl the
and later cone am again with a insh and a roar, M»
the train and the car charge up to de f-»t. rnts
and pall up as the front rows of the stalk dock far
safety. Tbe eleerrics are rimed m i., over the n ctse.
to show a full-sized ev. -oe stao- ling cn the trace,
'-larinst down on the w bestra. with the not-or-car
loo; se~ vhilo the hr; r:w of fit-up ccaohes tails
; A realistic perspective. A sßggan: e£ «S-
Destite all this thrill and g)lakiT or. oat Per. in a
s-;r:se. tmtsf :: it . I am trim; ".trig agatns* xae
st-oar bale a vaHa. The egese nmss have .e-er.
enormous. Also, the Ameraai flavor is too strong
for London eorsumprioffi- and when the bero mates
t-Tr in the tines of a buzz-saw ta.ainr tirxgt it?
re’eat These rewaes don’t bark any « pk*. hen
thev 6: p lav smart topical dia kerne. catchy tunes
and clever dancing as their trump cards. “tone
Over Here" isn't nearly strrra ennwgh cw these
points. and most of the joses ta.i filter ~~a a wet
fiaander. 'What can yon expect, for :-.stance, xr the
way of a Cockney "hand" from a joke which tuns
- i mar mg o - o— — and ng tea. !
—i, j f on Lom." To London the gag amtmas to
talk in a :>re*gc lanruagt
Tbe s«y of Joseph (lie floss I, and of the wife
of an am' captain named PotipcEr. has bee® ntb
liantlv framariswd by L:«is X- Parser is X \ ori.
He has deftly interpolated into its owr. 'dialogue the
-hranes of the orisosal so-ir-t. The floss act begins
with a coat of carnr oeiss and a deep wet- from
which Joseph is rescued bv Mrs. Car-tan Pcwiar.
-- -i,. -t _. a sots to Egypt- lo me seesmo ao.
M-t Pont** • Vw to uii ~3y-
i>: the play is as rateo-drairutic as was the cirdgiual
--Fioat.er": The Grand Gtagnel i’ar where the
tramo i-.d the ti rtl.::x •■•mtr os a matter ewse.
- k TT- 115 TtO-TLLTj ~>l ZZ- L ZTD^'-ZZ*+ Vi T .
B€C£3l2t tffif <-! lif S~TTCT:S«t*~ ZTZ'ZTZ 3T~
Torrers V** £ otj£~*£7 b:rr:*T 3) lie ti
Tekatalcd*. with g:«v s*r«. gr:a::ojr wounded_ar>d
n diT'ers iTirur aroma- - dder’s a Ton so trrvat*
is b - a Bukra"** r-Vk- 1 : and take® ~jrz~
on?r. The Bzisars. emltinc dr. tLeor oat-mre. taunt
the son of Isiasa. wfcproc® the Torrk turns ml its Er-
and -=ays: ~T: <ar time ha- ornne I art
inc»o®laTed with chc-lera. and yo*B wd_ :aorr it jit—
sieryrdv." - ore ertfucti- they -do. and the ruav eno.s
with a tableau cf cholera vseiros in ertroak. The
thrill that foQtwed was a realtstno t>:-rrray*_ of the
Tftatae disaster. wemderisßy rffeserted in a portare
of panic fauidun peiA-cmgers and escapii*
the height of the uproar a wife emerge* d l
adopted hubby s cabin, whereon the real i^fk her
arranges a joint drowning act for the faiths,
and her paramour. tDlfeia °ne
“ Spasmode ”: These be the stage rules n »
Modes and Persian* I win not aatm tte gL th '
villain - cigarette. Towards the final grit
“Cur-r--e yon!” then to the Funny Man «r 8
to the Devil:” vrh&eagon the Funny Man m,,1
say, “ After y on, Sir ” The pathetic old nan
have a red handkerchief dangling from a uifixo?
To- peered elderly lady carries eyeglasses™ 1
stick. The i'.a-'.-i-jjey geritfewaan, armed with 3
revolvers, mutt defy two villains. He must cross v
arms to late better aim. A stage detective ni
always be smoking a pipe, which hangs jVJL y
must keep their hats on in rooms.' Stage kteS
are « the neck The proof that ot* * a
or Italian is that he always wants to w- J“ n
eaptexall} cm La Vi beads. When angry or
be mo* Md his am. A shrug and thrusting on!
of arms, by icrags ffita or women, stall be taken to
roean any of teo tfcrigs. Every hotel in comic- own
rr.us- keep, twenty fawn*** to do featberdnstinr
anc they imst all have dan biled petticoats.
“C. Ockney"; £e the brave D'Oj Jt Carte dav- n f
the savoy, ecoaeeramg which “LmT* fB j e/’ii
t'-i*.- a;, interestingly. Sidney Gnmdy was c-J
vans in ‘'Haddon HalL” and that facile
rather surprised playgoer* with his t„-
o™ matiSS
tnai he wa« t GOtert, whenspM Ac jocular Gnmdv
sent a jetler to the Tim in which he suegested
that it;- '•'•try tan-* to writ* a libretto for SJillivan
vncold be pen o death. S.csething with boiling
c:l in it/* would, he thngU, mat the ease. “Had-
d-:m HaJ-~ by the way, was not SaDivan’s last
Savoy i tera. He was engaged at the music of “Thf
Ejneraii Isle" libretto by Baal Hood), when he
was i'. rtiiev by his fatal illness- Tat scr-re «a-
faished by Edward German. Gilbert also wrote
another piece for the Ssvty not meetioaeri by “Lod."
It wav pr>iooed only a few years back." It was
founded on obk c t Ms fairy plays. Another libret-
tist: during the Carte regime was the recently
bxronetted J. M Barr >. who. with Conan D.tlc jt
enUabonhor. dad a ouaisa opera csUed “Jane-Annie,"
the MBBSBT rsmsic kmg kzpp-lied by Ereest Ford,
a pupil of Sxillrras's-
'-S-S.-: Ditt'iasnr the preofesa in a London papa.
Finer: eirries to the «mriu«dgsj that there is nothing
the rratt.er with fle E-fft'vfc drann, and all the re-
fort* r>»ce-vsiry is that of giving rara the privilege of
smoking in thertnes. The T-lay » good enough.’ the
players are- a., that art etmlt -scare, nc-thing is wint-
trx :r-t sm'ote. I have ateiced it myself in nanv
otcaaemv- bet it has seemed to me at such times
that ar&riert W citMcure the stage and stifle
the -setorv might pr - we tehtohl to the audience.
H-wer-er. Ptnerr- i- :*:4nr cenly what trigfa be a
-, . vj. r/ * —seskmig Tt 1 -d'vjd the issue.
- P-:cn~: Wilaams:»c's ipahg tehtim with
Curc-rp ti MsditOTme were eiacs'y She this of Jef-
fersic. ant Manager Toltn: hi Sydney.
wesji to CVygk*- sod e#«r«d seif and Maggie Moore
f;e a tct lewoHe salary- ittly wanr*c to get j
J vta£ nr .%rsc-aiia. "Te®, J*.~ said Copt*;
-Ssares. - And shares ft was. Tc >c sure, he kept
its muck as he gave JjC-W. : ijDt- if it hada't been
—shares.** at what ne t-c.c have banked in
th:«t rlt-rtotj*. atoa* tmpcaJhlei weeks! Prißri-
-;>•« ds4r*i ad gt -efleea-yal those t-mes. and
its had a rather j»-»tc tiling :«. era rp to the
as: I-Tu- frst -rirht ft me of Ms iltscfots in-
perntaaas. eatetyc Brcte. Ml s' bard: the Kans
Celete ant Mathews were n:c in it with “stud
Oil ~ T-.ticw. was in the same ease vita Jefeiwc.
an ahstedy mheard-:’f max in Ausr-iiia. who quite
imtiji'-ed for a gentle salarv-. somewhere atom £l5
a v“i- Totem- was fen for sbam*. baesed by
B’jr ICn-i. At rehearm/. agara. me tid* wu
fiat as -ifiarwater. Brt what a revedatii® was Min
Tax TTihfcjt: And ~Onr Amerjeax OmEm" was
oxua.lv me its rw -s T - iiau*:.: "'T ve :m t-i-ik in
bb4bw. Tut te-maxE I ac*t*k irystd: ha You sre i
rr , ; ,f nc-p.nr.** _ T«-~ said "he renerxis
—'v T.r y- w hav* rio: artnrs. resemtig sic ii; Ito
Iteddy Mittrerx.
THE INNOCENT AND THE INCOME
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A no; her revue, on a gigantic scale, is to be pro-
-1 ecd to-nx>rrow night it the London Opera House.
. be piece is entitled "Come Over Here." and :> being
11 bix-med. There are to be SO or 40 young g.rls.
"picked beauties" liven the American :tage. who are
to wear gowns valued at e 15."00. We read that one
•vssesses a sable eost worth iaOOO. and that another
has a chinchilla coat which cost £l5OO. Some of
the "stage beauties" who are o.cnirar over here must
somehow large incomes —.Vhrf rcmmrtt of
As-«s ft o ; : it d 'IS).
My 1 How do they do it: It this news be true, it
Is marvellous, wondrous ami ptmlin'.
Vain are my guesses—how evtne the dresses—
The satin, the silk and the muslin ;
Isn't it ram how "stage beauties'' somehow
Find out where largesse of "tin" comes!
Innocence (bless it! Thai's ■-. I eotu'ess- it ! 1
tjueries in vain these incomes:
To wear they are able chinchilla and sable —
When they've get the "oof" they : an't hoard i;!—
Cosily tal-lalary—be* uht on thetr salary ;
How can the poor girls ilford it i
Hey. diddle diddle —insoluble riddle!
At tac'ng. perhaps, a r ;g win comes 1
r es bookmaker's rag t.nje ussisi at the ngr:me—
The time when their rag' "blew" their incomes:
What cn be the duties that bring these stage
tX'jilayitS
Such hawk aevouats—big as P. Morga
And—why aren't they mentioned in those best-ir.te«-
Pus yars. theatrical orgurs:
Oh —secret for ever! Alrh. ah 1 endeavor.
Till G... * v.'s trwncjv-ting ;r. cor. fs.
T: settle the o. sr. n—ei clue no suu-gesriur
I'll get rr these wwnderfal incomes!
VICTOtU.
EARDLEY TURNER


fh
HSlis
■
<7
<3
<7
.
g'V.i^K
'
■
;■ Vi^
'
,
’
S.
&K
, -,;
.
n
*r?:
■
SJ
-
\
RETOP^
><lo IS D
9
W
V
<2
THE WINTER WEATHER IS LOVELY
AT MT. VICTORIA.
THERE, 3424 ft. above the sea, you can really enjoy living. Forget that
there ever was such a place as an Office; cast aside all worries and live
the life of the Mountains.
Even if only for a week-end, you will notice a wonderful change. The
pure, crisp air reinvigorates you, and prepares you for business the following week.
THE IMPERIAL HOTEL
the leading Hotel at Mt. Victoria —offers you unequalled advantages,
;tay there will greatly increase the pleasure of your visit.
and
The Hotel is magnificently furnished throughout, is electrically
lighted, and has its own sanitary system. Also a modern Motor
Garage. Service and Cuisine equal to the best City Hotels.
a
TARIFF: £3 3s. per Week; 10s. per Day.
Special Personally Conducted Tour to Jenolan
Caves Over Prince of Wales Birthday.
This will afford an unequalled opportunity of viewing the famed
jenolan Caves at small expense.
You travel First-Class by Rail, and from Mt. Victoria or
Katoomba to the Caves by the luxurious Itala Cars. You have a day
and a half at the Caves, and stay at the Caves House. In short you
have every comfort and convenience throughout the trip.
FARE
Covering all Expenses—
Rail, Motor, Hotels, Inspection Fees.
£4,
Book at 18 Imperial Arcade.
Full information from —
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU, Challis House.


SEE IT ON THE PACKAGE
TRADE
fg
MARK
Rickets
not only affects the bones,
it renders the child liable
to croup, bronchitis, nerve
troubles and acid indiges-
tion. Yet rickets is curable.
Those “wry bones” can be
made sturdy, straight and
strong. That wasted child
can be made healthy and
well—full of life and vitali-
ty. SCOTT’S will do this,
but be sure to get genuine
scons
Emulsion
with the fishman on the
package—the remedy that
has saved the lives of
millions of children.
SHORT Stories, Novels,
Poems, etc., Wanted.
We are commissioned by a well-known
weekly journal to offer prizes of *llO 10s.
and £5 ss. for the best short stories sub-
mitted before July 31, 1913.
We also have a purchaser for a novel by
an Australian writer.
Highest prices secured for Short Stories,
Poems, Special Articles, etc.
MS. revised and every assistance given to
beginners.
1913 Prospectus posted free on request.
Australasian Literary Agency,
Pendennis Chambers, Sydney.
ANTINEURASTHIN
TREATMENT OF
NERVOUS AND WASTING DISEASES.
The wonderful properties of Antineurasthin (.Leci-
thin in an absolutely pure form) for successfully
treating all nerve maladies, Dyspepsia, Anaemia,
Rheumatism, etc., and imparting permanent mental
and nerve force, reflect the latest and most important
achievements in medical science.
One of the most important of the wonderful re-
sults obtained by this treatment is that not alone
does it build up the nervous system by feeding the
brain and nerve-cells with their natural food ele-
ment, but on account of its beneficial action upon
the process of nutrition and upon the blood, the
whole general health shows prompt improvement,
particularly in wasting diseases.
A FREE TRIAL.
In order that the worth of Antineurasthin may be
tested, a sample supply, together with a treatise on
nervous maladies, will be forwarded to any address
in Australia on receipt of 2d. in stamps to cover
postage by the wholesale representative, H. A. God-
dard No. 3 Australasian Chambers, 406-414 Queen
Street, Brisbane: or Branches: 194 Vickery's Cham-
bers, S 2 Pitt Street, Sydney: 9-15 Safe Deposit
Buildings. Queen Street,' Melbourne; 3 Ellershaw’s
Buildings, Cliff Street, Fremantle; 213 Smeeton’s
Buddings. Queen Street, Auckland.
Serial No. SlO. —Guaranteed under the Pure Foods
Act of New- South Wales by H. A. Goddard. Sydney,
to contain not less than 10 per cent. Pure Lecithin.
No. 810. [2
Do you feel weak? Are
you easily tired? All run
down? Nervous? Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla is a great tonic.
4 CORRESPONDENT writes : "There is
always one feature in The Lone
Hand each month that is alone worth the
price charged for the whole number." The
price of The Lone Hand is 6d.
STAMMERING.
MU. W. A YEARSLEY, Bowen Terrace. Mel-
bourne. Under special appointment to Munici-
pal Education Committees. England and South
Africa. Method approved Board of Education. Eng.
Subsidised by Governments. Awarded Gold Medal
for excellency. BooWtft sent
Have You Tried Herbs
for Your Illness ?
For hundreds of vears the common, simple herbs were all that were used as medioi
and the people in the olden time's used to live longer and healthier. unes ~~
I believe Herbs will often cure where other treatment fails—in fact, I know manv
cases where this has been so. And I want you to try. the simple, natural Herb o,’ lr , y
your complaint. Tell me your symptoms and all narticulars—l will 3e nd voii » i
month’s supply of Herbs, suited for your illness, with full direction how to use V u 1
For this full month’s course I charge £2/2/- It will prove the best investment vmi m '
made. Try it! Write to-day, and send postal notes of any State. * u ever
J. W. CASE,, Ph. c„ m.p.s.,
Botanic Pharmacist, BRISBANE, Q,
9 M
A Trial Will
Convince You
A
that Pebeeo Tooth Paste is different from, and better than
ordinary dentifrices. Are you sure you derive from your
present dentifrice the greatest possible benefit? The" fact
that dentists and doctors have recommended Pebeeo for 20
years is a guarantee of its real worth. You yourself will
recognise its excellent properties if you try it.
OBTAINABLE ALL CHEMISTS.
Trial Tube with useful Book free for three penny stamps,
on application to the Sole Agent:—
G. ARNOLD
(Dept. M), 6 O’Connell Street,
(WHOLESALE ONLY).
Sydney V
ADVICE TO MR. SHOWMAN!
JUST ARRIVED-THE LARGEST STOCK OF
MOVING
PICTURE
MACHINES
EVER IMPORTED TO AUSTRALIA.
FROM £lO UPWARDS.
+r
We stork EVERY LEADING MAKE of BIOSCOPE MACHINE, Lighting Outfits, and Filins, and
guarantee to sell 30% CHEAPER THAN ANY OTHER FIRM. WE DO NOT BELONG TO ANY
COMBINE. If you want a Moving Picture Outfit for the HOME or THEATRE, we can supply it.
Every article is GUARANTEED PERFECT. GET OUR PRICE LIST before buying elsewhere. If
you want to Pay Cash, or BUY' ON THE INSTALMENT SY'STEM, no matter where you live, WE
WILL SUPPLY YOU. SIXTY’ MACHINES TO SELECT FROM, and 500,000 FEET OF THE
LATEST FILM SUBJECTS, from Ad. PER FOOT. WRITE TO-DAY FOR PARTICULARS.
WORLD’S BIOGRAPH LTD., 117 Bathurst St., Sidney, N.S.W
I
EDUCATING THE HORSE.
NEW AND IMPROVED SYSTEM.
EDUCATING THE HORSE. SECRET OF HORSE TAMING. .
THE WILD COLT. BREAKING TO HARNESS. Howtothrow*
the horse, pulling at halter, baulking, cribbing, kicking, runaway horses
how to cure, to teach tricks, to lie down, to sit up, to bow, to dance,
waltz, shake hands, to keep in health, and other secrets worth pounds
that will appeal to every horse loving Australian. Price only 1/7 post
free from ANGLO-AMERICAN PUBLISHING CO.. Waterloo Chambers,
George Street, Sydney, N S. W.
Moving Pictures
MUST BE PROJECTED BY THE BEST BIOGRAPH
TO GIVE ENTIRE SATISFACTION.
The Silent Empire
IS THE MACHINE TO ACCOMPLISH
PERFECT PROJECTION.
This wonderful Bioscope has proved it-
self absolutely without an equal both for
travelling and permanent shows.
It is silent, rock-steady, flickerless,
fireproof, economical.
WHY NOT HAVE THE BEST?
We can quote you for complete outfits,
including the famous Kelvin Electric
Plants.
h
) KELVIN
GENERATING SET
Send for our Cinematograph Booklet —it teaches how to make money with picture skon=
“WE ARE SOME PEOPLE.”
JERDANS LTD.,
393 George Street,
SYDNEY.
GET A “PLUM” RAZOR
55* 45
\-
and learn how easy and comfortable shaving can be. t
Your beard may be strong, but it will prove no match tar the
The keen blade of this razor will mow it down without pu
roughening the skin.
Order one now, and we will keep it in first-class condition for
years free of charge.
PRICE 10 6, Post Free.
The C. & A. Moustache Trainer
shapes the moustache. Worn
at night; 26, 36, 5,6 each
post free.
We Crind and Set Razors, 1 - each
SAFETY RAZORS FROM 5 6.
Send for our Illustrated Price List.
Single Razor. Vulcanite Handle 10 6
Pair in Double ®***\.' I ' ls 6.
Single Razor, ivory Handle, is
Pair in Double Case. 30
line that makes a 7A
The Plum RazorStrop joea^
Other good kinds fnHB 3 6 eac
Stick good Shaving Soap. 1 •
The Plum Strop Dressing. 1
Gentlen.eu who sn* v e themsei
should not be
All the Above Poet rree-^»
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654
GEORGE v?/Rf YDNEY
ESTABLISHED 30
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. ho
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Nanilla: We know that sort of English-
man by heart. He is not a remittance-man for the
reason only that he has no friends or relations who
are able or willing to send him remittances. And
so he works. But being a congenital ass he does
no particular good for himself ; and being a dreary
bore he is avoided socially with a good deal of zest;
and that embitters him with the country and with
its inhabitants. Take the advice of our Religious
Editor —counsel which is based on a lengthy experi-
ence of this sort of cit ; zen—and edge off your
British acquaintance before he begins to borrow
money from y0u.... Scar: The man who thinks that
“the present wild and unsettled state of the North-
ern parts of the continent constitute their best safe-
guard” can’t be argued with here. He had better
hunt up the ghost of the last Tasmanian black
and ask him what he thinks of the proposition. His
land was wild and unsettled enough for anything....
F. : You’ll have to give us some idea of the
date.... Dumper: Yes, and if the same sub. had got
hold of “Hamer’s” yarn it would have gone where
yours went, he having previously handled about 50
variants of it and traced the original to America. . . .
Jeddough: Too young and green.... Billy Bucket:
No, “Wun Hop” does neither —he merely enjoys the
cartoonist’s privilege of pulling your leg. And it
looks as though the job was easy. .. .B R.: The Bul-
letin can’t undertake to return the MS. of unused
paragraphs Julia L. (Q.) : It is not Bulletin stuff,
but the market for it is comfortably steady. Think
you should be able to place other stories with the
same paper —and other weeklies of the family type.
The official prophet is at present insolvent through
backing his own fancies at the races; consequently,
we are unable to sav whether you will ever do better
work R.M.V.: It is a rather untidy avalanche.
Cannot discover anything of value to us. Try else-
where, and next time either hire a typewriter, or en-
slave a young person who writes a legible fist. . . .
H.N.: Hilda, our dear, you have versified one of the
Past Grand Chestnuts —one of the dear old ones that
linger fondly in the memory and are never, never
forgotten, the love verses are very nice in a pretty,
imitative way. Thanks for neat manuscript
D.L.T.L.: Bit like diluted Jacobs, isn’t it?
Bellerive: Herewith the second instalment of your
serial, “Dosser’s Paradise.” Synopsis of previous
chapter: Parson Jim, who is looked up to by all the
other dossers, is confronted by the indignant brother
of the lady he is supposed to have ruined. It will
be remembered that, as the last chapter closed. Par
son Jim, who was being made to feel thoroughly un-
comfortable, emitted a cry of terror and endeavored
to escape. Chapter 2 —When his enemy held him with
an iron grip and resumed when you were a gay bird
Don you ruined my unfortunate sister’s Life under
the pretense of marriage Left a mother without the
honor of the Name of wife she became demented And
poisoned herself with arsenic in the Bloom of her
womanhood and I pledged an oath oyer her grave to
wreak vengeance upon the man who’d betrayed Her
your the man and by the Saints above you’ll pay
the forfeit Dennis appeal’ed the victim I’m waning
fast from want and misery Give me time to repent
for my sin To my Maker alas his pathetic anpeal
Was answered with a fiendish laugh A knife flashed
o’er his wretched form And he fell crone to the
mouldy floor Stabbed to the core of the pluck I’ve
settled him muttered the assassin When the door
was thrown open And he was surrounded by the
paupers Whom seized him like wolves and Chimed
Murder in Dosser’s paradise I done him in cried the
captive Hand me over to Justice I’ve revenged My
sister’s fate and the law can Swing me. (THE
END.) .K.P.: “The Average” was posted back to
you on 10/6/’l3. It was sent home because it was
below its name. .. . Jimipy B. : “Boys" just about
1800 words too long. It wouldn’t matter much in a
novel, but it’s a fairly serious fault in an 1800-word
story. T.8.D.: No value here. .. .William O’C.:
It may seem ungrateful of us, but we’re not going
to send you anvthing for your illuminated address
to Little Lord Fauntleroy. As you are a new arrival
on the Inky Way, we will not charge you anything
for reading it. That’s the best we can do
Trier: Your humor reminds us somewhat of heavy
weight-lifting turns we have endured at music halls,
having all the time a miserable suspicion that the
weights were less than they were supposed to be.
and knowing quite well that it didn’t matter, any-
how, weight-lifting being a hopelessly dull stunt or
job, besides being out of place in the modern world
of power. .. .S.S.H.: Sorry “Reply” unsuitable....
G. : Sentiment is very pleasant, but the verses
require the cosy firelit setting of a children’s page,
with large-hearted Aunt Martha, as stipendiary
female relative to the whole wide world, doing her
knitting under the heading, and the salaried cat pur-
ring on the top margin of a' cocoa advertisement....
Ess K.: After Bret Harte a long way. The trouble
about big men’s footprints is that relatively they
are bottomless pits to very small followers. Alwavs
better to try and make your own track, and thereby
ayoid the comparison that is odious, if not abso-
lutely fatal. (P.S. —Just struck your second contri-
bution. It moves us to say that it would be better
if you could stop. Do vou think you could ston if
you tried?) Miggles: Not Bulletin stuff.
Whether it is any other paper’s stuff rests with that
paper and with the cloyen pen of the dey'l-
ish sub-editor.... Offsider: Sorry. Not worth
print... . W.8.J.: Well-meaning and monotonous....
W.A.S.: Find space for them? We will find illimi-
table space for them ! At the verv first opportunity,
they shall be hitched to a balloon and sent up
where there is no niggling sub-editor to trouble. . . .
Norman: Oh. it’s spontaneous enough. We can see
quite plainly that it is one of those poems that just
burst out and let it go at that. .. .M.A.G. :
No, we don’t like, and you won't tell
us all about it—at least not while we
have the strength to resist.... S.K.: Uninteresting
moan. Try a shriek... .8.Y.: Sorry, no value to us.
You’re a beginner, aren’t you ?. .. . Darlarmi: Verv
true and very du11... .H.W.D.: A little more skill
required.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
E. Schneider: Now. did you expect that this paper,
or any paper, would buy the thing? Wil C.:
Quite useless. To begin with, draw your pictures
about ten times the size in order to allow for re-
duction. and don’t draw them on a flabby paper sur-
face. Also, don’t double the paper up, and don’t
employ the cheap device by which words are shown
issuing from the mouths of the various characters.
Furthermore, draw better, and don’t use faint pencil
scratches. Lastly, shinine brother, when you send a
peremptory demand for the return of your hopeless
communication, enclose a stamp. In conclusion, and
finally and by way of P.S . the thing was torn in
three pieces and dropped into our old and valued
friend, the basket K.M.L.: “Please criticise.”
Well, it isn’t worth a solitary old whoop in Galilee.
....Baal: If your characters looked a little more
human, and weren’t so short in the legs and so in-
sane about the heads and stomachs and whiskers
and hands and clothes, and the beer-glasses were
more like the genuine articles, and there was some
nrobability and perspective and composition about
the picture it would be pretty g00d... .G.P.G.: A
horrible collection, and the picture of the hen-em-
bezzler is the worst.
Points from a recent Sydney lectnre on
“The iS-uth about Germany"’:—
The German does not ask why he should be a sol-
dier ; it is natural to him. He is a soldier because
he is a German. Some who steal away to oversea
countries awaken the idea that military service is
unpopular at home. On the same ground we mieht
conclude that it is unpopular to earn an honest live-
lihood because occasionally someone disappears with
other people’s money.
The Germans love Peace; they love it so much
that they want to make sure of it; therefore their
efficient army and navy.


■ ,rf ,*«M
1
*}«&§**s
mrnmMm
milUillU
m'm
■iMi
iiiiii® l
MS
r-tSFiiH;-<■■ > t
§i»B'
ilm
\
117
v
' ha '® , «i»k„,
"“*«**,
tefw
sag:
-a-*^
■/
'
mm-^
yM*****'*'
~
isSa*
&§B*i
ri*
fis< ;
-~
xii vh-*Jfe. • ■''. - .--<• ...
** wrvr-
fi. y' .
••••;-/
S®®*!
1
r/>iV:i
£SO:a
i . *4 V—
pj
llj
| ... >~vv2
k ..'■*&<?'■ •?'*&#■;:/-Mk‘ It
, >tmm\
Kjy V > v '£mm i
jjf&J • }
Jjr
iC
Wmmi
')
Cobra, Sfte Boot PolisH.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Shines upon
The ocean blue.
When his fla£ streams
I n the breeze
Foes are polished
Off the seas.
From his course
He never swerves,
Peace and leather
H e preserves.
And the people
Crowd the quay
When the COBRA
Puts to sea.


(SOME MORE NEW DESIGNS
£5/17/ 6.
15ct. GOLD, set Dia-
monds and Rubies or
Olivines.
50/-
18ct. GOLD, set
diamonds, Rubies
or Sapphires.
20/-
Solid GOLD, set Pearls and Colored
Stones. 15ct. Gold, 35/ -
— "■rn'i
I
J///
%
v>
-
£4/10/-
Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding WATCH
BRACELET, full jewelled, Lever movement, accur-
ate, reliable. Extra jewelled, £5, £5/10/-,
£6/10/-
20/-
9ct. GOLD LINKS, any
initials engraved. 15ct.
GOLD, 40/-
Lady’s Solid Silver Hunting
Keyless Lever WATCH,
}-plate, full jewelled, patent
adjusted balance, 2o -
Higher grade, 30/-, 35/-,
£2. Solid Gold, £3,
£3/10/-
30/-
9ct. GOLD. set
Pearls and Ame-
thysts or Red
Stones.
£O/10/-
18ct. Gold Double
Row RING, set 6
Diamonds. Rubies,
Sapphires, or Oli-
vines.
£5.
18ct. GOLD, set 5
pure, double-cut
Diamonds.
WE PAY POSTAGE .
AUNDERS
We can promise you here quality and value ; also that the designs
are exclusive and very becoming. Write for C atalo gue
further selections.
for
FREE
IT
£2/17/0.
9ct. Gold NE'CKLACE, set
Pearls and Amethysts.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting Keyless
LEVER, non-magnetic, full jewelled, pat-
ent time-spring, compensation balance,
dust-proof cases, 30/- Extra jewelled,
35/-, £2. £2/10/- Rolled Gold,
55/-, £4/4/- Solid Gold, £6/10/-,
£7/10/-
9ct. Gold CHARM,
set Pearls and Red
or Blue Stones.
10/-
9ct. Gold WED-
D I N G RING,
10/-; 15et. Gold,
10/-; 18ct. Gold,
20/- Wider and
heavier, 23/-,
30/-, 40/-,
50/-
£lO.
18ct. GOLD, set
pure, double-cut
Diamonds.
17/6.
9ct. Gold SIGNET
RING.
15ct., 35/-
1*- -
Solid GOLD, set Gar
:.cts.
22/6.
Solid Gold “Baby” BROOCH,
Pearl set. 15ct. Gold,
35 -
£2.
9ct. Gold Plain Half-round BRACELET. Wider,
50 60/-, 70/-, up to £5. loot. Gold, £4.
25/-
9ct. GOLD, set
Pearls and Ame-
thysts or Red
Stones.
CATALOGUE FREE .
807-817 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
s
MU
Lady’s Black Open Face
Keyless WATCH, full
jewelled, strong and
curate, dust and water
proof. Higher Grades,
15/-. Silver. 20
25/- Gold, £2.
'Ringing for More!'
fi USA
rm\
/A
Bird’s
Custard
stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess.
Has stood the test of time
L Over 70 years ’ success. A
FELT HATS
WRITE
NOW.
7/6
POST
FREE.
“THE TRAQUAIR”
Smartest Shape ol the Season —an
ideal hat for autumn & winter. Worn by
women & girls everywhere. In black ::
white, navy & colors. Sent post free any-
where on receipt of 7/6 postal note.
MILLER'S
270 Bourke SL, Melbourne.
118 Rundle St. Adelaide 195 Pitt St. Sydney
Announcing
Blue Amberol
Records
The Blue Amberol Record is practically unbreakable, and rests at the factory
proved that it can be played more than 3800 times without deterioration of its
wonderful tone qualities. It has an increased volume of sound and more life-like
quality of reproduction than any other record on the market.
We have issued a handsome Catalogue of Blue Amberol Records, and will be
pleased to post you a copy free on request.
The first issue of Blue Amberol Records, ready at the dealers now, is given below.
There are 38 numbers, and all tastes are catered for—grave, gay, classical and
religious. Make your choice of these records at your dealers to-day.
Edison Blue Amberol Records for July
BLUE AMBEBOIi CONCERT.
28104—One Sweetly Solemn Thought—
Chalmers
28107 —Love's Old Sweet Song— Miller
28108—Believe Me If All Those Endearing
Young Charms — Anna Case
28109 —The Angel's Serenade —Margaret Keyes
BLUE AMBEROL REGULAR.
1507 —Town Topics of Pumpkin Centre —
Cal Stewart
1509 —La Paloma ( Yradier ) —
Edison Concert Band
1518 — Whispering Hope—Clark and Anthony
1519 — Kitty O'Neil Medley—
Charles D’Almaine
1522 — Money Musk Medley—
National Promenade Band
1523 — “ ‘Hi’ and ‘Si’ of Jay town”—
Porter and Harlan
1527 —Serenade —
Florentine Instrumental Trio
1531 —Way Down South—Heidelberg Quintet
1544 — (o) Darkies’ Dream (.Lansing) ; (6)
Darkies' Awakening (Lansing) —■
Fred Van Eps
1545 — Abide With Me —
Frank Croxton Quartette
1553 — Bells Solo from ‘‘The Magic Flute”—
Daab
1554 — Roses. Roses, Everywhere—
Harvey Hindermyer
1555 — Where the Moonbeams Gleam —
Campbell and Gillette
1566 — The Village Band —
Van Brunt and Chorus
1567 — One Heart Divine —Spencer and Gillette
1569 — Nora Acushla—
Will Oakland and Chorus
1570 — Serenade — The Tollefsen Trio
1571 — Darktown Eccentricities —Vaudeville
Sketch— Golden and Hughes
1572 — She Was Bred in Old Kentucky—
Manuel Romain and Chorus
1574 —Medley of War Songs—-
N.Y. Military Band
1577 —The Wedding Glide—
Jones. Murray and Chorus
1579—My Song Shall Be Alway Thy Mercy—
Hymn of Praise —
Agues Kimball and Reed Miller
15S4 —On a Good Old Time Straw-ride—
Byron Harlan
1587 —Everybody Two-Step—-
Billy Murray and Chorus
1589 —That’s How I Need You —
Irving Gillette
1591 — Buddy Boy— Collins and Harlan
1592 I’m the Guy— Billy Murray
1593 O, Dry Those Tears — Mary Carson
1598—Wonderful Peace — R. Festyn Davies
23019 —Joshu-ah— Stanley Kirkbv
1558—Menuet Op. lh, No. 1 (/. J. Pade-
rewski )— Amer. Standard Orchestra
1561 —-The Glory Song—
Anthony and Harrison and Edison Mixed
Quartette.
Also the following Titles “made
over” from the Wax Records.
1551 — The Count of Luxembourg—Waltzes
American Standard Orch.
1552 The Count of Luxembourg—Are You
Going to Dance?— Spencer and Gillette
THOMAS A. EDISON LTD.
(Wholesale only), Dept. 8., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
WHEN ORDERING
(foaA
ALE
Insist on
FOSTERS
‘Bugle
Brand’
THE REASON IS
SIMPLE.
THERE'S NO OTHER
JUST AS GOOD.
%
■\rJ
i;
m
/-f :
m
s'e'ed
I m
xu
NOTE THE SLOT
The Best Tooth Powder
in The Best Container
Jewsbury&Brown's
if Oriental
Tooth Powder
6-s.l/ 2
in ttie
UrejedKirydon
All the Family may
use the same box^
WHOLESALE AGENTS in SYDNEY
Messrs Elliott Bros. Ltd.
. F.H Faulding 4Ca


SWIFT’S HIGH-SPEED RADIAL
DRILLING MACHINES
For
Absolute
Accuracy
and Time
Saving,
the Drill
that
Stands
the
Heaviest
Tests.
c
o
(Sole Agents for
Australia),
8' RADIAL DRILL.
BENSON BROTHERS
Full Stock of All Classes of Engineers’ Machine Tools,
51-53 Druitt Street, Sydney; 60 Queen street, Melbourne
SPENCER’S MILD INDIAN CIGARS.
SPECIALLY SELECTED WHOLE LEAF—No Inferior Fillings.
If not obtainable from your dealer, refer
Sample Boxes of 50, 15/-
PARTRIDGE ABERCROMBY LTD.,
York Chambers, Market Street, Sydney.
LOFTUS MORAN,
231 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
This is a Dean Smith and Grace, Heavy Duty High Speed Lathe.
There are 10 working in Broken Hill Mine Workshops alone.
Engineers !
IN every point which affects the REAL PRO-
DUCTIVE VALUE of the machine —still
more so in combination —the Machine Tools
that we sell have distinct and positive advantages
—tools from the biggest and best makers in
England, America and Europe.
We have LATHES by Dean, Smith and Grace, Smith,
Barker and Willson, H. W. Ward and Co., Jones and Lamson,
and the Cincinnati Lathe Co.; SHAPERS by Cincinnati
Shaper Co., and others; DRILLING MACHINES by Cincin-
nati-Bickford Co., Rockford Drilling Machine Co., Smith and
Coventry, etc.; MILLERS by the famous Cincinnati Co.;
FACING AND BORING MACHINES by G. Richards and
Co. —all being High-Grade Tools, with High-Grade Reputa-
tions.
Full range, also, of Planing, Slotting, Grinding, Screw-
ing, and Punching and Shearing Machines, Power Hack
Saws, Pneumatic Tools, etc.
If you’re in the market for any of these tools, you’ll find it
profitable' to get acquainted with the High-Grade Machines we handle.
Catalogue dealing with them all is Gratis and Post Free.
Full Range of SAGAR British
Built Woodworking Machines.
554-66 & 582-88 Collins St, Melbourne.
ACME MACHINE TOOL CO.,
51-65 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
fgh
BARNET
GLASS
RUBBER nEtLS
6 LASS
Absorb all “jar” of bard paths
and uneven roads, at the day t
end leaving you with untired
feet aad muscles.
-
BARNET GLASS
I he good golfer swears t
beauties" made by Barnet
GOL'K
BAIrL6
y “the little
Glass.
HIM
WATER 6A65
fg
The perfection of cold-weather Com-
fort. A luxury at the price of a
Necessity.
Barnet Glass Rubber Co. Ltd.
Pounders of the Rubber Industry
in Australasia,
231 Clarence Street, Sydney;
289-93 Swanston Street, Melbourne;
All States and N.Z. r 3
WITH
WITH
OIFFO
MOUST-
ACHE
GROWER
Makes moustache grow
and trains it the way you
wish it to remain after
brushing Waxy appear-
ance avoided. Best for
warm weather. Price 5/6
post free Double size 7/9
Universal Supply Co , 460
George St, Sydney NSW
BIFFO
COLORED POST CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston— “ WEEKLY WORRIES.”
Set of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin
Newspaper Co. 214 George St., Sydney.
Tailor-Made
Costumes
FOR WINTER.
Our Stock of
materials is
very compre-
hensive ; and
our T weeds
and Costume
Cloths are in
exclusive de-
signs. We in-
vite a visit of
inspection.
Our Cutter is Mr.
F. J. Murphy.
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
Tailors & Costumers,
76 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY.
hfgh
fg
JASON
Unshrinkable
HOSIERY.
h
I do use WRIGHT’S
Antiseptic Myrrh
Vtooth soap
So have Beautiful Teeth
and a Sweet Breath. Pre-
serves the enamel. Heals the
gums. Removes tartar. It's
entirely free from acids, and
all smart dentists recommend
its constant use. Your address
on a penny pos card, sent to
us, will bring you a trial sample free. Large box sent,
post paid, for One Shilling in stamps, l.ook out!
Thert are imitations. Sold by Chemists everywhere.
CHAS. WRIGHT CHEMICAL CO.
Detroit Mich.. U.S.A.
A MONTHLY GUIDE for everything' Aus-
tralian. That’s The Lone Hand. “A
marvellous sixpenn’orth ! ”
LET A
NELSON” Soda Fountain
GET YOUR SHARE OF THE THOUSANDS OF
POUNDS SPENT FOR SOFT DRINKS EVERY YEAR.
Now, just before the Season opens, is the time to get into this “Big-Money,” High-
Profit Business. The Nelson System of Iceless Soda Fountain will be the biggest
money maker in your store. It will turn every inch of idle space into profit. It
is an attraction that will keep a stream of new faces coming through your door, and
a big stream of silver into your till. You won’t, know your own store with the new
“Nelson” in it.
You Owners of Worn-Out Fountains, and you who have none at all.
Don’t let your Competitors Get the Trade that Should Be Yours.
Write us, and we will see that you get what you want, at the best price, and most
generous terms.
A “Nelson” Machine will bring hundreds of new people into your
store, because:
ITS BEAUTY is without a peer. All that the greatest and choicest materials can
do has been done in it.
It will keep them coming, because:
It serves COLD SODA (at a ridiculously LOW COST for ice) ; serves at HIGH
SPEED with ease and with ACCURATE MEASURE of syrups ; it is absolutely
sanitary, and looks it (people notice such things nowadays).
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE!
The Nelson Carbonating Co m.
167 George Street, Sydney.


Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Establishkd iS4<j. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Princiols.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehol 1
City .or Suburban Prooerties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined'), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures. Inscribed Stock or Treasury Rills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortsraee Deed contains a condition allowinsr Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan durinsr any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors —The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : The
Hon. Janies Burns, M.L.C. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. ; Tiie Hon. F. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C. ; Adrian Knox,
Esq., K.C.; Sir Alex. MacCormick, M. D. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.I. A., F.F.A.. F.S.S,
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
Janos^
Nearly all digestive disorders are caused by lack of exercise,
other contributing factors being overwork and overeating.
All of them, in minor forms, may be thoroughly and promptly
remedied by an occasional wineglassful of Hunyadi Janos
Natural Aperient Water taken every day before breakfast. It is
a safe, inexpensive and thoroughly effective remedy for Con-
stipation, Biliousness, Indigestion, Torpid Liver and Hemorrhoids.
All chemists sell it. „
The Famous NATURAL Aperient Water
Buy a Gillette, and >
Banish Shaving Troubles.
Ask the first dozen Gillette
users you meet why they
adopted the Gillette,
and probably ten of them will
answer—“ You don’t have to strop
the Blades.”
Most men hate to use a strop. It
is a waste of time for one thing; and no
matter how expert a man may be at
stropping, he resents having the bother
imposed on him by the make-shift shaving
quality of his razor.
An invaluable feature of the Gillette Safety
Razor is its hard-tempered steel blade. This
blade is the finest shaving edge ever produced,
affect it. Stropping the hard-tempered Gillette
gives the
automatic
adjustment.
3
s
3
No strop will
Blade is alto-
gether unnecessary.
You will find our New Process Gillette Blades specially fine,
sharp and smooth, the best ever produced.
You can easily shave yourself with the Gillette.
Your face may be exceptionally
tender—or your be ird so dark or so
heavy that you have to shave riglw down
close to the skin.
You may never have been able to
shave two days running.
Your time mav be short, your hand
nervous, or you may dread the risks of
the open blade razor.
You can shave every day with the
Gillette and do it quickly and comfortably.
You can shave velvet smooth —
closer than you have ever shaved before.
No roughness. No stubble of beard
left in the corners. No danger of bad
cuts and scratches.
The Gillette Safety Razor will save
you time, trouble and money. It is the
only razor adjustable to individual needs,
and it is safe.
Don’t put it off—Buy a Gillette To-day.
Of all high-class Cutlers, Ironmongers, Hair-
dressers. Chemists and Fancy Goods shops. Many
different styles to select from. BRITISH MADE.
Write to-day for illustrated and descriptive
Booklet of prices ; please mention this paper.
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR LTD.,
London, England.
Look carefully for our Trade Hark on
Razor, Blades and Case.
fg
h
WORLD OVER.
fghgf
TOP-NOTCH
OF SCOTCH
is
An ideal refresher during “a hundred up.”
“King George IV,” like a fine player,
scores every time it goes to the table, I
cn fair** tYif* ‘VIIP ” I MVP the Vest ”
so take the “cue,” leave the ' rest,'
and don’t “miss” or be “baulked’
of this exquisite beverage.
' “King George IV” is “top notch” in all
the essentials of a high grade whisky
—great age—fine bouquet—-
rounded mellowness—and
periect purity.
A TOP-NOTCH BREAK
Famished
Hair Cells
Hair-failure is due to starved roots and cells
All the legion of hair troubles vanish if vo '
strike at the root. It is the same in every ill
—you must go right to the heart of the trouble
What the grey, languishing, dropping hairs
call for
Is an adequate food— a real nutrimem
ROWLAND'S MACASSAR OIL gives an
immediaie new vitality to the feeble roots and
the “ feeding ” cells beneath them. It produces
a soft, silky sheen and texture; a full, luxuriant
growth, radiating a true natural hah-liealtli
Softly perfumed with Otto of Roses. SunnlieH
in Gold Tint for fair hair.
ROWLAND’S
Macassar Oil*
is sold by Stores, Chemists, anil
ROWLANDS, 67, Hatton Garden ,
London.
Avoid cheap imitations with the samt
or similar name.
ARE YOU
DEAF?
If you are deaf, or going deaf, you will be glJd to
hear of a simple and scientific device which restores
hearing, no matter how old you are. No mystery or
secrecy about it; we describe it fully, and explain
just how it acts. You use spectacles as sight magni-
fiers, and in the same way you use this sound magni-
fier to hear better. Unlike spectacles, the Wilson
Common-sense Ear-Drums are invisible and comfort-
able. No one can tell you are wearing them. They
rest the ear nerves by taking the strain off them—the
strain of trying to hear indistinct sounds. What a
relief to have done with that tiring strain. Being
made of the softest Para rubber they cannot be felt,
even when the head rests on a pillow. For the same
reason, a blow on the side of the head will not hurt
the ear. 'They protect the tender inner parts of the
ear, that are so sensitive, from cold winds, dust, sud-
den and piercing sounds.
So that you may clearly understand how the Sound
Magnifiers r estore hearing, we give an illustration of
one as it lies in the ear. You will notice that the
Sound Magnifier is shaped like a trumpet, and so con-
veys even the faintest sounds right to the natural drum.
Being of the softest rubber, it cannot the ear.
It fits the orifice of the ear
with precision and comfort.
The division that runs
across the month is to al-
low the removal and inser-
tion of the Ear-Drum, and
to brace it.
The shape of the Wilson
Ear-Drum has been chosen
after years of experience as
the best adapt-
ed to carry the
faintest sound.
Of course, if
you have lost
the h e a r i ng-
nerve com-
pletely, or were
born (leaf, we
cannot pretend
to cure you. Only a miracle could.,
do that, in spite of some of the
absurd claims made to-day. But
of you can hear the faintest sound,
do not despair. You will never
regret trying the Wilspn Ear-
Drums. We have letters to show
you from deaf people in Australia
and New Zealand, who have been
cured, and you can be cured, too. You' mav weal
the Ear-Drums day and night, and take them out
whenever you wish. Children can wear them (we
have special sizes for children from six to twelve).
Even a child can insert and remove them without the
least danger.
The price is £1 (the fee for a doctor’s single
visit). This includes a pair of drums (they are only
sold in pairs), a fine nickel remover,, and also an
inserter. After the first pair is bought you may pur-
chase a single drum at any time for Bs.. but the
pair you get at first will last quite two years. Do
not'ask for a trial pair. We do not send them out
on trial, and so they are never secondhand. Use the
Order form below, arid the Outfit will be sent you
at once, with the fullest instructions. Don’t delay,
but have the comfort of good hearing as soon as you
can.
?<?
w
frf
ORDER FORM.
STAR NOVELTY CO..
103 Arlington Chambers.
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please send me an Outfit containing a pair or
Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums, an Inserter ami a
Remover, for which I enclose One Pound.
Name
Address
NOTE.—Send Money Order or Postal Note. H »
Bank Note or Sovereign is sent, you must register
HIM ROD’S
ASTHMA POWDER.
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
No matter what your Respiratory
Organs may be suffering from —
whether Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough —you will
find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS.
Sold in Tins by ail Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
CONFIDENTIAL LETT E R S
remain Private when the ZaneU
N.S.C- Copjial Cookiswfd- •
You Slip m rhe
holder, write your letter, w
KSSWSSSssKI
ssasswqsgss
or SCO Octavo or 400
N.SC./4CO. P£t
SpecialS-gOJW 3 ;. post
ing 200 copies, for r-U-
- or double siia
Zanetie Pens. 3d. doz.. 2/- cross. Zane:ic W r ' t>«« which
Bxs, 1/- pkt., 10 x 8, 21- Sample of the Z r
produces this result. Free, if stamped enve I rirrCTFR,
s. B. ZANETIC, Zanetie Works, Welford Road- LElCEsltfc w»*
■r*s
i]
ZANETIC C< SS G
“Bookware” on Austin’s successor (if
any) :
Kipling has more genius than any other Laureate
candidate, but really he is not a poet. Macaulay
admired Virgil perhaps more than any other writer,
yet doubted whether Virgil was a poet—regarded him
more as the unequalled prosateur. I think that will
be the verdict on Kipling. There is as much poetry
in the prose of Ruskin, and more in the prose of De
Quincey. For poets, go to Shelley and lveats, with
Byron on a lower plane, as he himself recognised, like
Schiller quailing before Goethe. Noyes, author of
the worthy Drake epic, is in the Virgil class. \\ at-
son is the best intrinsic poet going "for the Laureate-
ship, and Masefield the next best. Vi atson writes
little, while Masefield is coming on. I scratch New-
holt and Bridges. There is evidently competition
for the job. All because of thej American market.
The Laureate-ship goes for little in England, but it
has a large money value in the United States.
“Addleliead” : “Nemo” (B. ,22/5/ 13) is
wrong in alleging that Arclibishop O Iteily,
of Adelaide, has only one suffragan, the
Bishop of Port Augusta. The “province” of
Adelaide includes Westralia and the North-
ern Territory—the largest, territorially, in
Australasia. In Westralia alone are
three suffragan bishops—their lordships of
Perth, Geraldton and New Norcia. The
Territory pulls through at present with an
“administrator apostolic.” By the way, it
isn’t necessary for an archbish. to have any
suffragan bishops. The arch, of Hobart has
none. Archbishop OTleily, by the way, was
parish priest of Fremantle (W.A.) when the
rescue of the six Irish patriots by Capt.
Anthony was effected. We’ve heard a lot
about it lately ; but O’Reily could tell more.
Chief Justice Way (S.A.), still full of
work and keen of intellect, is about three
months older than settlement in the Wheat
State. He was born in April, 1836, and
the first ship of the S.A. Co., which financed
the Colonisation Commissioners, arrived at
Kangaroo Island in July of the same year.
Way’s father, a Bible Christian minister,
arrived in Adelaide with his son in 1850.
The son, who happened to be Attorney-
General 25 years later when the Chief Jus-
tice’s chair became vacant, thought he was
the best man for the job, and his colleagues
agreed with him ; and for 37 years past he
has been proving that both he and they were
good judges.
“0.K.” writes re a valuable Australian: —
Claude W. Barker, the Sydney High School boy
who went to Britain eight years ago to team the art
of warship-building, is back in Australia as a qualified
naval architect, with letters after his name. He
took a B.Sc. degree in naval architecture at Glas-
gow University, and is an associate member of the
I.N.A. Melbourne Herald interviewed him on his
arrival last week, and got some interesting informa-
tion from the pushful young man. Conditions of
life being vastly better in Australia than in the
land where he learned his business, Claude Barker
will stay here if the Commonwealth Govt, can make
use of his non-imported brains. Otherwise he will
go back to Glasgow anon. There’s a lot doing on
the Clyde, in his line. “All the yards that cater
for warship work are exceedingly busy. Besides
home orders, there are many ships being built to
the order of fore’gn Governments.” Contractors are
not affected materially by labor troubles just now,
“but the construction of merchant vessels is, to a
certain extent, tied up by the high price of steel.”
The new naval base at Rosvth is a gigantic undertaking,
nevertheless the contractors are a year ahead of their
contract, and it has recently been expanded. The
three great dry- docks in course of construction will
take far larger boats than the Dreadnoughts of to-
day, but any longer and wider boats will not have a
deeper draught than 271 feet, or thereabouts, because
they would have no ports they could conven entlv
enter. The British submarines have been greatly
improved in design, on the first attempts, and the
Admiralty is going in largely for them for harbor
defence. It is a significant fact that the Admiralty
within the last four years has prohibited the inspec-
tion of the naval dockyards by even members of the
IN A. Claude Barker recently got a letter from the
Institute to that effect. And he speaks of it in an
uninjured tone of voice, as though he thought the
Admiralty had need ..of all its caution.
There is dire monotony about that fre-
quent cablegram heading, “L’lster Prepares.”
Possibly a few people in the eastern section
of Ulster “prepare,” but one-half of Ulster
votes Home Rule as a good steady thing.
And if the bit of Ulster that is making a
dizzy ass of itself with rifles and midnight
drills goes preparing too much the other
half may get angry, and throw a potato at
it, and knock it over. When even Belfast
returns a Home Ruler, and the Tories hold
Derry—where the famous Walls were—by
a microscopic majority, the Ulster tradition
becomes thin. The Ulster myth recalls the
long-suffering legend about the old Irish
Parliament, and its corruption and in-
capacity, and the, evidence it supplied of the
Irishman’s unfitness for self-government. Of
course, as no Catholic could either be a
voter or a member the real Irish were the
people who were least represented in that
remarkable gathering which met at College
Green. There were present the descendants
of old imported Scots from Ulster, and de-
i scendants of old imported Englishmen from
Dublin and thereabouts, and nominees sent
over from England to see what they could
pick up. And because this Tory crowed
showed its utter incapacity to govern wfith
even a semblance of intelligence it has been
putting on airs ever since. .
“N. or M.,” from Tasmania: —
Another genuine Turner has come to light, in
Hobart, and Melbourne experts are agreed that the
I “genuine” may, for the present, go without in-
verted commas, though Christie’s, in London, will
give the final decision. The enthusiastic owner ex-
pects to seU at £5OOO, which, seeing that he picked
up the canvas at an auction mart for £l, leaves a
very fair margin of profit. The picture, a seascape,
disguised in cracked varnish, was formerly the pro-
perty of Mrs. Tom Giblin, and was sold at her death.
A clean-up revealed the artist’s signature, and the
rest remains with Christie. There has also appeared
a smaller oil suspected of being Turner’s work, but
of this I can only say, darkly, that more will be
heard anon. Tasmania is a happy hunting-ground
for collectors. It is not so long since a Melbourne
dealer paid a record price for a pair of silver-gilt
communion cups dating back to Stuart times. The
precious things were decorating a kitchen mantel-
piece, and the none-too-affluent ladies who owned
them thought they were brass. They had been the
property of a bishop’s grandfather. Tassy holds a
lot of fine old wood-carving, too, much of it dusted
by owners who would as soon th nk of selling the
roof as of parting with the furniture. There is a
“grandfather” clock of my acquaintance that bears
distressful witness to the methods of Judge Jefferies,
of the Sanguinary Assize. After the snufflng-out of
Monmouth’s rebellion, the carver had his right hand
chopped off as a hint not to go a-treasoning any
' more. Being a sturdy rebel, he instead of dying of
lockjaw, went home and painfully and left-handedly
hacked out a clock-case in memory of the event.
“My heart is pierced. Salve me, O Lord!” is carved
on the front panel. The words are alleged to be the
last spoken bv James 11. A slip of paper pasted
inside bears faded reference to the King’s deposition
and the evils brought about by him “cleaving to
Popery” ; and hang : ng on a nail is the bony hand
that struck so disastrously in a lost cause. Taken
all round, it is rather a grim possession.


m
i *
m
hfg
D! Morses
WORMS— THE CHILDREN’S ENEMY.
A Safe, Sure and Reliable Specific for WORMS in CHILDREN and ADULTS.
THE symptoms of the presence of worms are very pronounced; but should the indications prove incorrect, a course of COMSTOCK’S “DEAD SHOT”
WORM PELLETS will do no harm whatever. An examination of the stools is the surest way to determine the presence of worms, and when found
treatment should start at once to rid the system of the parasites.
The Long Thread Worm measures from one inch to two inches in length, the upper portion being thin and the lower two-thirds about twice as
thick. This variety also infests the large intestines and the rectum.
The common Thread Worm derives its name from its threadlike appearance. The average length is about one-third of an inch, this description
applying to the female worm. The male worms are much smaller, and do not exhibit half the length of the females. The favorite situation of the
Thread Worm is the large bowel which forms the terminal portion of the intestines. These worms cause severe itching at the lower passage and picking
at the nose. Ansemia, restlessness, irritability, and loss of appetite are also frequent symptoms.
The Round Worm in its appearance, save in color, of course, somewhat resembles the earth-worm in shape. As in the case of the Thread Worms,
the female worm very much exceeds the male worm in size. Whilst the Thread Worm inhabits the large intestine of children, the Round Worm is found
in the small bowel, or that portion of the intestine which immediately comes off from the stomach and makes up the succeeding 20 feet in length of the
digestive tube. Adults, of course, are frequently also affected with Round Worms, and it may be added that they are also subject to be troubled with
Thread Worms.
COMSTOCK’S “DEAD SHOT” WORM PELLETS are a purely vegetable medicinal preparation, compounded on a scientific principle for the
eradication of worms which infest the intestines. They contain specific properties which destroy the worms, but cause no injury to the stomach or
bowels and do not weaken the system. The pellets are prepared in the form of a confection or lolly, have no disagreeable taste or smell; but, on the
contrary, inspire children to take them as they would an ordinary lozenge. Obtainable from all chemists and stores, or direct from The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd!, 23 Lang Street, Church Hill, Sydney; and Parish Street, Wellington, N.Z. Post free on receipt of price, 2s. 9d. per packet; six packets, 15s.


HORSESHOE
SALMON
is a Rich Red Fish of exquisite flavor. It is the
most useful and wholesome of canned fish, and
can be used either direct from the tin or served
up in many appetising and delicious forms.
Horseshoe is all Quality and Flavor.
CAN’T SHAKE IT OFF.
How often we hear persons with colds make the
above remark; but Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
shakes them off promptly and effectively in a fe«
d»ses. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s. Obtainable every-
where.*
The trustworthy qualities of AVON TYKES so
generally recognised by the private car owner anfl
typified by their well-known picturesque trade mark
of a Stonehenge trilith. are further exemplified by
the employment of AVON solid Band tyres for tne
Government Postal Service of mail vans and for a
fleet of the L.G.O. vehicles which now range througn
greater London.*
Health follows the
regular use of
Montserrat
Lime Juice
Sauce
«vn
ll
It make*
you enjoy
your food*
Of all Storekeeper*
IN BANANA LAND
In a recent case at Rockhampton the
accused, charged under the new Liquor Act
with being upon licensed premises on a
Sunday, pleaded that he visited the pubbery
for the purpose of obtaining a yardman’s
job. It might have been a good defence if
the proprietress hadn’t stated in court that
she wanted no yardman. That man was
fined; but Bung took the hint with enthu-
siasm. In the next Saturday’s paper pretty
nearly a third of the “Wanted” column was
taken up by pubberies beseeching the ser-
vices of yardmen.
There was a painful misprint in a Bris-
bane daily paper last week, when the cable
column burst out into this: —
Thirty thousand athletes passed before the
Kaiser crying “Hell!”
Still, one can say this of the erring comp.
He knew human nature even if he was a bit
weak in his German.
“P.F.”: Mormon missionaries have lately
invaded the Rockhampton district, and
Bishop Halford, Presbyterian Dr. Hay and
sundry other divines have deemed it neces-
sary to devote a special Sunday sermon to
warning their flocks against the blandish-
ments of the Saints from Utah. After
which solemn warning the Eternal Feminine
may be safely trusted to “just want to see”,
what the exhortations of the Mormon elders
really amount to.
Bananaland has just decided to do some-
thing towards growing the stoppers for its
beer bottles. At present most of the corks
come from the countries around the Medi-
terranean. Those that aren’t born there-
abouts come from any other old place except
Australia. Early this year the Queensland
Acclimatization Society, in a fit of energy,
dropped a line to Portugal for some seeds of
the cork-oak. To-day there are over 700
young plants in Brisbane awaiting distri-
bution in the spring. The Society proposes
to send one or two to the head teachers of
schools throughout the State. All the
pedagogue is asked to do with them is to
plant them and write once a year saying
how the young beer cork is thriving, and as
he has only 25.000 other things to do this
is easy. A school playground may not be
the best place in the world for a tree-nursery,
but it’s a fine place for slaughtering the
“Won’t grow in Australia” prejudice.
Practically all the clergy of Brisbane —
Anglican, R.C., Presbyterian and Methodist
—-united the other Sunday to bless Aus-
tralia’s Defence Force and bid it go on
learning to shoot in the way that is straight
and to fight the good fight that will some
day be necessary to keep Australia white
and Christian. Somehow the nearer a par-
son lives to the Equator the easier it seems
for him to be also a man.
Temple Clark, of the Lands Department,
has just produced a pamphlet on the prickly
pear question. Clark, who is in a position
to get the most authentic information, says
that thirty million acres are already in-
fested, and that the pest is spreading at the
rate of a million acres per annum. He
laughs at the proffered cochineal cure, which
has failed in India and S. Africa, and points
out that the insect would need to destroy
200 million tons per annum to be effective.
Yankee chemist Roberts estimates that he
can destroy, by means of his gas, 100,000
acres of pear in 10 years—a mere bagatelle,
says Clark. Yet for his own part Clark
can’t think of anything better to recommend
than the employment of 1000 Chinese, who
could, he estimates, clear 156,000 acres per
annum. Perhaps 100,000 new white settlers
would serve the purpose better, and serve
the country a good deal better also.
PROOF CONCLUSIVE.
BILL (after interminable argument): “ Yer mad , Bob. Yer mad as a snake.”
SAWNY BOB : “I’m not. I'm as sane as you or any other bloke. I've got certificates
from two doctors saying I’m sane.”
“Condamine”: I would not advise The
Bulletin to rob its infant’s money box to
invest in Queensland pear country on the
strength of Roberts’s experiments in destroy-
ing the vegetable porcupine with poisonous
gas. The Yankee chemist has not yet rea-
lised the virility of our national plant. The
pear makes its growth from September to
January, and any check that does not
destroy it only encourages it to show what
it really can do. Roberts's first work was
done in the growing season, and the pear
promptly put on new shoots. The second
attempt has been lately made, and the
branches and leaves are apparently dead.
If they stay dead until next Christmas and
no more arrive from the roots, -writer will
say “Hallelujah!” in a loud voice; also
“Well done, good and faithful servant.” As
to the other Yank who is going to wipe pear
off the landscape, his stated methods are —-
(1) To convert the plant into paper pulp.
As there is only about 6 per cent, of fibre
this is declared by experts to be not nayable.
(2) To make and export jam from the fruit.
Owing to its acidity and the difficulty of
gathering it, this does not sound promising.
(3) To use the fruit for coloring matter
Boiling water destroys all the coloring at
once. Don’t rob anybody’s money-box to
back this method either.
Wowsers Again!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When voices of dole on the breezes
Come down, and the Sabbath is here;
When weird and astonishing wheezes
Inform us the Righteous are near,
From out a grey hedging of whiskers
Proceedeth a voice as in pain,
“Oh, Shame on these wicked young
friskers !”
’Tis Wowsers again!
When pubs are agape on the Monday,
And citizens moisten the lip,
By way of forgetting that Sunday
Was void of the signs of a sip,
The brethren go by with a mutter,
“This Drink of our land is the Bane;
It placeth the Just oh the shutter!” —
’Tis Wowsers again!
When Youth has gone crazy on cricket,
And wild at the sight of the ball.
You hear, “Lo! the bat and the wicket
Are spread as a snare for you all!”
And if, in a game that is fistic,
You show that you’ve muscle and brain,
“Oh, barbarous bouts pugilistic!”—
’Tis Wowsers again !
If Darby should walk with his Mary
An hour after sun has gone down,
Although she be modest and chary,
And prim be the cut of her gown,
Next morning that innocent lisper
Will find her repute’s got a stain,
Because of a mischievous whisper—
’Tis Wowsers again!
If Tom should go backing his fancy,
When colors are gay on the turf;
If frolicsome Netty or Nancy
Should show a neat foot in the surf;
If Jack, when his bosom is mellow,
Meet Phyllis down town in the rain,
And offer to share his umbrella—
Oh! Wowsers again!
They buzz like a horde of mosquitoes,
They bite like a legion of fleas.
They’d shut out the sun with their vetoes,
They’d spy on the mites in the cheese;
When ‘ libels' are breathed at the altar,
And slanders are hatched in the fane
That merit the axe and the halter —
’Tis Wowsers again!
QUEENSLAND.
A. WOWSERITE.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, June 14, 1913.
My Dear Tiiargomindah,—
The local delegate of the Amalgamated
Union of Surplus Governors, Wm. Mac-
gregor, has been rushing at a bit of extra
piece-work during the past few days. On
Wednesday afternoon at the University,
prior to a meeting of the Senate, he un-
loaded degrees on five students. In the
evening he put in an hour or so at the Rail-
way Ball, from 9 o’clock. Lady Mac, the
ex-Miss Mac. Mrs. Cecil Palmer, Mrs. and
Miss Coldham (of Melbourne), Mrs. Pagan
and Miss Evans shared the stage with him.
Palms and four porters in uniform were the
other decorations.
After the ball his Ex. and the Foxton gen-
tleman usher beat it to Childers per railway
train. There the local show was duly
opened.
On Friday the Macgregor split a bottle of
ginger vinegar with the Methodist Confer-
ence. And this afternoon he togged him-
self up as a chancellor the University,
formally hurled open King’s College and
made a long explanation about it. Dr.
Brown, of Sydney, who is occupying a perch
at the vice-regal abode, the Master of King’s
and Professor Steele also threw in a gallon
or two of There was a huge
crowd. The Vision was there, in grey
ninon; Mrs. Scott Fletcher looked well in a
striped brown garment, with Bulgarian em-
broidery on the bodice; Mrs. Digby Denham
and Mrs. W. H. Barnes both wore grey;
and Mrs. Kingsbury was in royal blue.
While his Ex. was speechifying an alarum
clock- —one of the insistent beasts that re-
peat themselves, particularly on cold morn-
ings—began its fell work, and not until
Mrs. Scott Fletcher, with a fine color in her
cheeks, made for the scene of action, did it
stop.
A well-buttressed rumor reaches me that
Capt. Forbes, A.D.C. to the N. S. Wales
Governor, is coming over here for our
August festivities, together with his prettj
wife and Mrs. Sep Levy.
The first Private Assembly of this season
cavorted at the South Brisbane Technical
College last Thursday. There were about
180 cavorters, to the delight of the caterer,
who had been told to expect 250, and had
cooked according to scale. A few hundred-
weight more palms had been hacked out of
the adjacent scenery to decorate the stamp-
ing ground, and poinsettia and scarlet salvia
brightened up the bare expanses on the
supper table. Six first-offenders made their
appearance. They were Emily Hayman,
pretty Agatha Fitzgerald, a Miss Gilles,
Blaine Love, one of Harry McConnel’s
daughters, and the little Ridgway girl.
Noticeable among our younger matrons
were Mrs. George Webster, Mrs. Wilkinson
(she was Marian Darvall), Mrs. Mayo, and
Mrs. Doug Corrie. Mrs. J. T. Bell, Mrs.
McConnel and Mrs. Cecil Palmer were
apparently on the committee. I say
apparently, my dear, for with an almost in-
credible coyness, that hard-working body re-
fuses to see its names in cold print,
u hether this is caused by an earnest desire
to blush unseen, or an equallv ardent long-
ing to avoid explanations with the many
whose toes (according to that large, footless,
colorless animal Rumor) have been tramped
on I know not. Amongst the guests who
trailed fetching draperies was Mrs. Gilbert
W ilson, our home-made songstress. Hers
were black, and liable to set Envy up in the
old line of business.
The Myosotis Assembly in the same hall
Monday night was a much more friendly
affair. Jean Dyson-Holland—in a prettv
t-P? ninon frock, Isabel Hooper, and
\ ida Hutton were three new recruits to the
ranks of the dancing girl. Everybody knew
everybody else, there were plenty of men.
“f floor and l he m hSio good, so
that the party broke up • rejuf&pdv about
the time the last cars carte a TbSf festooned
mth. midnight humans and burni shea
Tom Welsby, M.L.A., and Lon ,
to-day for your city, to attend the Chali^ 1
of Commerce Conference. The Senrot anibers
the Brisbane Chamber. W j W P^ y , of
went with them. We athenH,
An engagement between a mwv ,
daughter and a squatter man is beiite®v*
pered about at all the afternoon teas W -rl B '
lady is fully sft. nothing, and her a IW s
fiance is 6ft. 3in. If I said any T 4
might suspect the identity of the pair ,V ° U
A team of Toowoomba croquet pl averB
came down this week, and was , n X 8
licked by the local players. Mrs L nn ft
did the friendly to the losers at the fv-
Eschenhagen this morning.
Suffragettes are about as consistent
other females. An English friend ends
me a copy of their official organ, dated M a
2 The whole of the first page is tilled wiff
gleeful boasting of the fires, bomb exnL
sions and interference with telephones
caused by the humorless and resourced
Persons who flaunt the purple and green
On an adjacent page, an indignant referent
is made to the police, who “pushed and
shoved into the crowd, regardless of a Z
injury they might inflict upon individuals in
the process.”
South Brisbane’s Mayoress, Mrs Nevlan
gave a coin tea at her home this afterim™
to swell the funds for the Charity Ball'
Even the humble “tray,” when collected in
bulk or mass, is useful to these charities.
The Women’s Club gave a very successful
coin evening this week in aid of the R es i
dential College for Women. President
Martha Burns saw to it that the plucked
were made happy ; also she saw that quite a
bulky sum was commandeered.
Another deserving show that got a boost
this week was the District Nurses’ Home
On Thursday Mrs. Crase gave a tea and
to-day Mrs. Arthur Morgan opened a bazaar
to assist the faded exchequer.
Have you read “Veiled Women” yet my
dear? I haven’t. Our Early Victorian
Government decided it was immoral or some-
thing, and sent all the Brisbane shipments
back to the place of abominations whence
they came. Whatever vou do. Thargo-
mindah, don’t forward a copy. Nothing on
earth would now induce us to even peep at
it. Sooner would we be boiled at the stake
on top of the Walls of Derry. Yours in a
swirl of blushes.
AUSTRALIA JANE.
"Oldest Inhabitant”: Arrangements are
being made to remove the remains of Wil-
liam Landsborough, explorer, from Caloundra
to Toowong (Brisbane) Cemetery. Lands-
borough began a career of private exblora-
tion in 1856, and discovered Mount Neb- and
Fort Cooper. He explored the Peak Downs
and Xagoa in 1859. discovered the head of
the Thomson in 1860, and traced the
Gregory and Herbert Rivers to their sources
in 1861. In that year he was engaged by
the Royal Society of Victoria to head an
expedition to the Albert River in search of
Burke and Wills. After many false starts
the party left the depot on February 10,
1862, and journeyed southward, discovering
rich pastoral lands extending along the
wrnters of the Flinders to the Dividing
Range, thence along the Thomson from its
source to the Victoria or Barcoo River, and
next to the Warrego. They travelled along
the Darling to Menindie, and from there
they cut across to Melbourne. For this
achievement Landsborough was presented in
Melbourne with a piece of plate valued at
£5OO. and on subseouently visiting London
the Royal Geographical Society gave him a
gold watch with a few brief remarks cut
into it. After a tour of India and Europe he
returned to Queensland, was elected to the
Legislative Ass., but resigned his seat in 1865,
and took the position of Government Resi-
dent in the Burke district. Subsequently, in
conjunction with G. Phillips, he discovered
the Western River and followed the course
or the Diamantina —named after the Greek
wife of the first Governor of Queensland,
George Bowen. In 1868 he became In-
spector of Brands for East Moreton. He
died in 18S6.


C
'MS
s
>•
■m
as
Wi
all
rfn
-/•■■■.,
k
! ,d
A
i
i a
Stk .' ...
ft
■
> 1 )
/
mm
wm
\
1 I .*
* «EL #<•
sr »
i «
*
1
Jk
M‘mk
m
-sfc.-
t*
i
■
st.
m
m
mo-
PL
ii;- «I
IL §
Ensures


Shipping;.
Pm and O. BRANCH SERVICE.
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Via MELBOURNE and ADELAIDE.
Wireless installed.
PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION AMIDSHIPS.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
LONDON £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £13.135., £l5 15s. & £l7 17s.
Tickets for return, via Suez (second-class), P. and
O. Mail, from £49 19s. to £53 11s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne: John Sanderson & Co., 11l William St.
Adelaide and Fremantle Agents: Geo. Wills & Co.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAND.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing everv fortnight from BRISBANE. SYDNEY,
Melbourne; Adelaide, and fremantle.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place. Sydney.
Banking:, Public Companies, &c.
1/-
Minimum
Deposit.
Have YOU a
Bank Account ?
£5OO
Interest
Limit.
If not, open one by Depositing
at least ONE SHILLING In the
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
THE STATE SAVINGS INSTITUTION.
116 BRANCHES and OVER 500
AGENCIES IN THE STATE.
31 Per
2 Cent.
Interest on
First £3OO
No Connection with
the Post Office.
J. H. DAVIES,
Secretary.
11 Moore Street,
SYDNEY.
3 Per
Cent.
On Excess
to £5OO
jank of florth Queensland
LI Ml TED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM EORSYTH. Esq. (Burns, Philp k Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY k WESTMINSTER
BANK, LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
THE
Australian Bank of Bommeree
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,534
PAID-UP (31st December, 1912).. £1,195,274
RESERVE FUND £15,000
HEAD OFFICE— George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS —Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.; Cjias. 11.
Myles, Esq. ; Mark Sheldon, Esq. ; Arthur S.
Barton, Esq; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq.
Branches throughout Ne\y South Wales k Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth.
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO.OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. 413,590 14 6
Reserve .. .. . • .. 130,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since 189$ specially protected.
Directors —Jas. Munro, Esq. (Chairman) ; John
Cameron, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. ; Geo. Edw. Bunning,
Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON FIXED DEPOSITS.—
12 months, at the rate of 4 per cent, per annum : 2
vears and over, at the rate of per cent, per annum.
HEAD OFFICE - - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
file Colonial Mutual [ife
assurance society limited
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS BTREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,358,229.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £5,600,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as lo
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Males:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C.
The Hpn. Hr
A.
3, Heberts, C.M.G., M.L.C.. Chairman,
uce Smith. K.C., M.P.
BOSS UILI ,ER. Resident Secretary.
Shipping.
N.D.L.
norddeutscher-lloyd
MAIL STEAMERS
To Colombo, Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and
Bremen.
All steamers fitted with “Wireless” Installation.
All steamers fitted with Laundry.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE from Sydney
and Brisbane, via German New Guinea, Yap,
Angaur or Maron. Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to —
LOHMANN & CO., General Agents.
7 & 9 Br idge Street, Sydney ;
OSTERMEYER, VAN ROMPAEY & Co., Melbourne;
H. MtJECKE & CO., Adelaide;
L. RATAZZ1 & CO.. Perth and Fremantle ;
THOS. BROWN & SONS. Ltd.. Brisbane &-Townsville.
Bank of |)eui Z ea l ai, d.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING. GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£1,000,000
Preference Shares . . .... 500,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
up . . . . .. .. 500,boo
Uncalled Capital . . . . .. 500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,240,587
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji. Great Bri-
tain anti Ireland, and other planes.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
TN€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE
All steamers fitted with Wireless.
SALOON: FARES— Third-class.
London, from £45. £l6 to £2O.
Capetown and Durban, from £3O £l3/13/- to £l7/17/-
Special Round Tickets for Return by Orient Line,
£llO (First-class both ways) ; £B2 (Second-class
Orient). Saloon Return Tickets interchangeable
with Holt’s Blue Funnel Line. Third-Class Return
and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with P. & O.
Branch Service.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll4 10s.
SALOON CABINS on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest stan-
dard.
Pamphlets. Time-Tables, kr.. on application.
DAj,CETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia
Australian Steamships Line
Fast Passenger Steamers
SYDNEY 'j
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
(Transhipping for
other Queensland
Ports). '
NORTH.
BOMBALA (4000 tons).
Leaves Sydney June 21
COOMA (4000 tons).
Leaves Melbourne June 25
Leaves Sydney June 28
CANBERRA (8000 tons).
Leaves Melbourne July 2
Leaves Sydney July 5
MELBOURNE
SOUTH.
PEREGRINE (3500 tons).
; Leaves Sydney June 21
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
i “BURNS-PHILP.”
Round-the-lslands Tours
Round-Australia Tours.
Round-the-Pacific Tours.
Round-the-Far-East Tours.
AUSTRALIA’S
Leading
Tour and Travel
Agents.
We Book You to Any Part of the World.
We Estimate and Schedule Any Trip, FREE!
We Issue Letters of Credit, Secure, Passports, etc.
We Relieve Our Clients of All Worry.
We Materially Save Expenses and Delays.
We Offer an Unparalleled Choice of Tours.
NOTE : If meditating a Holiday Trip, a Honeymoon Trip, or a Business Trip, communicate with our
TOUR (8b TRAVEL DEPT.
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD. Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
h
£3,253,540
£2,250,000
£3,253,540
£8,757,080
niUEGTOKS:
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Maclvellar, lit., M.L.C.,
President.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Bucldand, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. Jambs T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
AUDITORS: Shepheard Edgecliff Laidley, Esq., Alfred George Milson, Esq.
Head Office-George St.. Sydney. London Threadneedle St., E.C.
335 Branches and Agencies in the S tates, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London, Agents
and Correspondents throughout the World, R
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on. -Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE
WORLD. J - BUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
THE North Coast Steam
1 Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFE’S HAR-
BOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Bs. 6d. ; second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. £1,750,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . . . 1,580,000 0 0
Reserve-.', Capital .. .. 1,750,000 0 0
£5,080,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen, Esq .. .. Chairman.
Hon. 11. E. Kater, M.L.C. . . Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. 11. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onsi.ow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors? W. L. Docker, Esq., and E. S. Cape, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Diniis.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
11. 11. Massie.
Head Office: G-eorg'e Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Bircliin - Lane.
Directors: F. 11. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. 11. S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. ..£538,307
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 159,054
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock).- 76,500
£773.861
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. ■ •" ■
Gen. Man.. Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. 11. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
THE Australian Magazine—THE LONE
HAND. The National Monthly. Price. 6d.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE.
*The largest and Finest Steamers trading between
Australia and San Francisco.
Around World and Around Pacific Tours.
Steamers stop 24 Hours at Papeete—the
“Pearl of the Pacific.”
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.
259 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“ Zealandia,”
“ Ulimaroa,”
“Riverina,”
"Westralia,”
“Wimmera,”
“Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH <fc ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports,
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIPco_
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and troni
West Australian, South Australian
Victorian and Queensland Ports.'
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports.
T.S.S. Warilda, j uly ,
and August 2 '
K Bonn V ! ire ' eBsTele£rra Pt>v
* to? 9 - Carrying
Three Classes, i »«
and 4-Berth Cabins.” 1
Brisbane
MAI KAY
TOWNSVILLE
An<i Ports NorMi to Oairn*.
T 'fu? an^*' ,a (8000 tons)
fitted Wireless Tele’'
gi-aphy, June 21.
S.S. Wollowra, June 28.
Siiloon Passage Tickets are interrh.,„„„ >,
the first Port of call with other inter-Lte <£
on all services subject to conditions, which eanT'
ascertained on application at the Company's Offi'/''
G S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
The Vancouver Route
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
Via FIJI AND HONOLULU.
CANADIAN - AUSTRALASIAN RM
LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railwav.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
AROUND THE WORLD TOURS.
FIRST AND SECOND CLASS.
SAILINGS :
“New triple-screw steamer, fitted with cab’ns-de-
luxe en suite, Nursery, Laundry, Electric Lifts, etc.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Federal & Shire Lines
Steam to London and Liverpool,
T.S.S. AYRSHIRE.
11,900 Tons. PAGE, Comr,j(i)<i«>
Will be despatched from—
SYDNEY, JULY 19.
The Saloon accommodation consists of all two-
berth cabins on the Upper deck, situated amidships.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious
decks. Third-class passengers supplied with fresh
provisions from cool chambers throughout the voyage.
Electric light throughout.
Return and Round Trip Tickets issued via Cape
and (or) Suez Route. Prepaid passages arranged.
Saloon. Third-class.
Fares to London.. £40 £13/13/-to £17/17/-
Steerage Fares from Brisbane, One Guinea Extra.
FITTED WITH WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY.
For further information, pamphlets, etc., apply to—-
BIRT & CO., LTD., Sydney.
TURNBULL, MARTIN & CO., Brisbane.
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & CO. PTY., Ltd.,.
Melbourne and Newcastle.
ELDER SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
H. JONES & CO.. LTD., Hobart.
A Whole Week Saved
SYDNEY to SAN FRANCISCO by the
Oceanic Steamship Company
10,000 tons, Twin Screw Steamers. 17 knots t
Glassed 100 A1 at British Lloyds.
CABINS DE LUXE with BATHS.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY---
SONOMA .. .. | June 28 I Aug. 23 | Oct. IS I Dec. 13
VENTURA .. j July 26 j Sept. 20 | Nov. 17 , | Jan. 10
The through trip to England can be a cf omplished
in 29 Days via Samoa, Honolulu, San prancisco.
RETURN TICKETS GOOD BY P. ,tO., (f ,CENT LINE,
N.D.L., N.Z .S. Co. and S. S. <fc/ Co.
Tel. 2282 City. Apply— 44 PITT ST (i EET, SYDNEY.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
C01W.PANY Ltd.
HEAD 0FF1C ,E :
GEORGE & HUNTER ST REETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL
Fire insurances
Marine Risks ..
- / £500.000.
eifr cted on all classes o
Br Hidings, Stocks, Furm-
tr ire & c .Bents also assured.
r ,n Wool. Merchandise,
' Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Q 1 ' £her Insurances
of various classes.
The “ United ” is ri , Australian Institution.
T HOMAS W. TINLEY, Manager^
New Zeala nd Insurance Cw
FIRE, iV.ARINE, ACCIDENT,
LIVE S' rOCK and GENERAL.
WEALTH TEST COLONIAL COMPANY.
INSURANCES ? ELECTED at LOWEST Current «««■
FIRE and MARlf je BRANCH: 77 PITT STREET, SYDNt
ACCIDENT » RANCH: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
J. A. M innbtt & A. E. D’ARCY, Joint Manager^
imm
For First-Class
Result* use
Best
W“PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distribntinjr it °. a "'’fJpn 62
from AUtiUST BLUMENTHAI.,
Pitt Streeit. Sydney, Sole Ajrnis for Australia.


GLORIOUS TOURS to the
' .
SOUTH SEA
.... and ....
EASTERN
PACIFIC
ISLANDS
by the Luxurious
Steamers,
T.S.S. ATUA, 3500 tons, JULY 15, 8 p.m.
T.S.S. TOFUA, 4400 tons, AUGUST 12, 8 p.m.
Specially built for tropical climates. All Cabins,
Dining Saloon, and Social Hall on upper deck. Per-
fect Ventilation and Electric Light throughout.
The above Steanjors sail from Sydney everv 28
days to Fiji. (lJutoka, Suva, Levuka), SAMOA
(Apia), FRIENDLY ISLANDS (Vavau, Haapai,
Nukualofa) and AUCKLAND, transhipping thence to
Steamer for Sydney and Melbourne at frequent inter-
vals.
Sydney to RAROTONGA and TAHITI (via Wel-
lington), R.M.S. TAHITI, July 12. Passengers can
spend 10 days in Tahiti and return by R.M.S S;
AORANGI, August 5, arriving Sydney August 19.
There is also a service every 28 days from Auck-
land to EASTERN PACIFIC GROUP (RAROTONGA,
RAIATEA and TAHITI. Talune, July 1. (Maheno,
from Sydney, June 25, connects.)
All Steamers fitted with Wireless.
Full particulars and Descriptive Booklets on appli-
cation to the various offices in Australasia of the
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., Ltd.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
Hotels. &c.
fgh
G
EORGE HOTEL,
At. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 13- per day.
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It is
the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
fg
ARABI’S CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN-HENNA,
for Grey Hair, the best and cheapest, Is. and 2s. 6d.
(Observe signature, Alfred Ardley, No. 7410.)
Avoid the counterfeiter (same case, same bottle).
Genuine 1 obtainable: —
SYDNEY: MARK FOY’S, ALL CHEMISTS, W.
ASSOMULL and Stores.
MELBOURNE: EDMENT’S, FOY’S, COLE’S, MAC-
LELLAN'S, ALL CHEMISTS, W. ASSOMULL.
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE.
hfg
Made in ./England. Perfectly
harmless, indetectablej
and guaranteed free
from Nitrate of
Silver and Lead
Salts.
IN VARIOUS
SHADES Raven
Black, Black,
Jlrown, Light or
Golden Brown,
Blonde, Chefetnut
and Auburn
Price 3/6, posted 3/1i
Directions with every
bottle.
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 The Block Arcade, Collins St., Melbourne
PILE PILLS.
PERMANENT CURE.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS.
Non-' perient. A sure and speedy cure for all cases
of Internal and External Piles.
Have Cured Thousands of Cases, some after suffering
over 40 years.
Made and sold bv ANDREW MURPHY, WOY
W<JY (N.S.W.), Sole Proprietor.
PRICE 3/- Per Box, Post Free.
pn Sale at All Druggists and Chemists throughout
the States.
UNCLftIM£P MONEY & PROPERTY.
nOUOAL’S REGISTER to NEXT-OF-KIN,
CHANCERY HEIRS, LEGATEES, Ac., &c„ price
5/-,480 pages. Robertson’s,booksellers, Melbourne,
Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, or Dougal & Co.
Claims investigated and carried through
00UCAL & CO. ,151. STRAND. LONDON, ENCLAND.
(Kfttn lth'shf‘l nvfrfiQ Venrs.)
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFICE
h
JSanh of Bustralta
SYDNEY
Branches are open for the transaction of GENERAL BANKING BUSINESS at
Federal Capital Canberra. New South Wales —Sydney. Victoria Melbourne.
Queensland Brisbane and Townsville. Soutn Australia. —Adelaide, Western Australia—
Perth. Tasmania— Hobart And at 36-38 NEW BROAD STREET, London.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of credit and circular notes issued to any part of the world. Bills negotiated or
forwarded for collection. Banking and Exchange Business Of every description transacted within
the Commonwealth, United" Kingdom and abroad Interest paid on fixed deposits.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT
Branches are open at 3 Moore Street, Sydney; 317 Collins Street, Melbourne; Queen Street,
Brisbane; Royal Exchange, 96 King William Street, Adelaide; St. George’s Terrace,
Perth; Elizabeth Street, Hobart; and Canberra (Federal Capital); and 1900 Agencies
at Post Offices which issue Money Orders in the Australian Commonwealth and
Papua, from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. daily (Tasmania, 9 a.m. to 6 p m ), and noon Saturday.
All Branch Offices are open for deposits and withdrawals on Friday 7 to 9 p.m.
Withdrawals on demand may be effected at any office within the Commonwealth.
1/- Minimum Deposit. 3% Rate of Interest on all Deposits up to £3OO
JAMES KELL, Dkpdtv Oovrrnor. utnk. 1913 DENISON MILLER, Governor
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queensland
otters a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the prospective
settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office : 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
BV ?
S'B
Hilwi
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 11s. per day, or apartments
may he secured separately by the day from 3s. 6d. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout
AGENTS TO R
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dog's Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated "Waters and Cordials.
Th®
Cap
The
Head
The Nib
Carrier
This head con-
trols the flow
of ink. A turn
to the right
closes the pen
so that it m ty
be held in any
position and
will not leak.
A greater or
less turn to the
left gives the
exact supply
of ink suitable
for your hand-
writing.
fgh
The whole idea of a fountain pen is to
simplify writing. That is why the
Onoto is unrivalled. It fills itself. A
fountain pen that needs a filling appar-
atus defeats its own end ; it is as out-
of-date as a watch that needs a key.
The Onoto Pen is a
triumph of simplicity.
It is complete in itself —perfect in the
simplicity of its mechanism —British manu-
facture and guaranteed by its makers.
All who write should own the
the pen —never leaks.
Price 12/-and upwards, of all Stationers, Jewellers & Stores. Booklet about the Onotc
Pen free on application to Thos.de la Rue <& Co., Ld., 194 Bunhill Row, London, E.C., or
the Australasian Representatives, Norman Baker & Longhurst, 50 York Street, Sydney.
Ask for ONOTO INK—Best for all Pens.
fg
' A MOUSTACHE WILL
IMPROVE YOUR APPEARANCE
You know that—but your trouble has been the growing of a moustache.
Well, try
CAPILEARINE.
Rub a little on 'the lip at bedtime. Will not disappoint you. Satisfied
hundreds of men during past 30 years. Growth will be permanent.
Price 10/6 JAR, Post Free.
The C. & A. Moustache Trainer, worn at night,
shapes the moustache. 2/6, 3/6, 5/6, Post Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
Established 30 Years.
hfg
The
Abbey Shoe
—the shoe well-dressed men wear.
The wearing of an Abbey Shoe
is a tribute to your taste and
individuality—an evidence of
the fact that you are satisfied
only with the best.
The boot we illustrate is a Tan
Willow Calf Bal., perforated
Golosh.
25/- and 27/6.
Also in Black Velour Calf,
22/6. In half-sizes and quarter-
fittings.
WRITE FOR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
h
The
Tod Sloan
Racing Saddle.
The picked favorite jn all the Training
and Racing Stables throughout the Com-
monwealth. Those who are using Uhl’s
“Tod Sloan” cannot speak too highly.
Made from properly prepared Leather
well finished, mounted with Girth, Sur-
cingle, Leathers and Irons.
Write and ORDER yours NOW —be
sure and give weight—the saddle can be
built to any weight required.
A QUAL. B QUAL.
£5 10s. £5.
L. UHL & SONS, Ltd.,
Makers of Good Saddles,
Petrie Bi&fht, BRISBANE.
For the Country Horseman
The saddle here illustrated is expressly designed
or country use, for stock riding, etc., and is built
of the best materials throughout. If any of our
friends are requiring such a saddle they will find
this a genuine bargain.
n
It has a hog-skin seat, a plated bac-tree, extra
long flaps, with points to buckle below. An economi-
cal feature is the skirt, which extends all round
and thus adds years of wear to the saddle by pro-
tecting its interior from the weather. It has a
deep, “sweepy” seat, 4in. leneepads, nickel-plated
iron stirrups, and double buckle leather girth. Tha
price complete is £3/15/- Mention of Thj
Bulletin when ordering will ensure your having a
leather surcingle given in free, and the saddle will
be forwarded freight paid. It is to be obtained
from J. P. Talty, 388 Sussex Street, Sydney.


The PLAYGOER 8 Society Illustrated
contains a beautiful Souvenir of the most
popular play of the month in London. A
complete record of the London Drama. Pub-
lished monthly. Price, 6d.
A HREE SPECIMEN COPY
will be sent, post free, to all applying for
same, on receipt of postcard addressed to,
THE PUBLISHER, Playgoer and Society,
5 Tavistock Street, London. W.C.
MOOH.T.'
E O
THE HEART OE THE AUTOMOBILE—
Fame's Schebler Carburetor
The best Carburetor for ALL PETROL ENCINES
—either Land or Marine, Stationary or Moving:.
The Schebler makes your engine develop
greater horse power for a less’ 'consumption of
fuel. ' ,
The Schebler holds many world’s records.
Booklet and all information free.
Correspondence invited.
ROBERT C. SWAN & CO. LTD.,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Sole Agents for Australia.
A Strong, Rigid Fence.
“Empire” Fence is not wire-netting, but a
strong, rigid fence, and far neater than com-
mon wire-fencing. The wires are held by a
perfect knot, which cannot slip. The meshes
are small at the bottom for sheep and lambs.
It has no sharp points, will not rust, and is
practically indestructible.
Is cheap to buy, easy to erect. Two men
can erect a mile per day.
EMPIRE
HARD
STEEL
WOVEN
WIRE
FENCE
T. C. B. Rothwell writes: “The fence is, in
my opinion, a cheap and verv effective one,
and I am quite satisfied with it.”
Write for Fully Illustrated Descriptive Cata-
logue, sent post free by the Sole Distributors,
PARKER, WINDER & ACHURCH Ltd.
BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND. [1
Agent for Australia and Kew Zealand—
EBSEX R. PICOT, 20 Young Street, Sydney;
and 240-2 Little Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
g&US
. ■*•, iJ
Mat- HyV^Uh
For YOU and ME
There is Nothing to Equal
■ •?. j.*- ' 1
mo urn os
NOWOIOC
Its Soothing, Healing Powers have been
proved beyond a shadow of doubt.
Rheumatic Gout, Sciatica, Rheumatism,
Neuralgia, Sprains, Strains, etc , all yield
to its irresistible potency. One jar will
convince you !
2/6 Jars obtainable from your Chemist or Store-
keepers; post fr ee for V- from
SOLOMON COX & SON
439 Bourke Otreot, Melbourne.
Amusements.
BARA BUT T-R UMFORD TOUR.
J. & N. TAIT present Madame
CLARA BUTT,
And Mr.
KENNERLEY RUMFORD.
SYDNEY SEASON,
JUNE 21, 24, 26, 28; JULY 1,3, 5.
BRISBANE SEASON,
JULY 17, 19, 21.
TOUR —Under the Direction of J. & N. TAIT,
The Auditorium, Melbourne.
HER MAJESTY’S THBAI , SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
AT THE HEIGHT OF ITS POPULARITY.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.50.
THE COUNT OF LUXEMBOURG.
Stage Production by Chas. A. Wenman.
PLANS AT PALING’S.
PRICES : D.C and OS. (Reserved and at Door), 6/-;
Stalls, 4/- ; Amphitheatre till 7.30, 2/- ; thereafter, 1/-
Theatre royal, sydne y>
Lessee: J. C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.46.
OSCAR ASCHB and LILY BRAYTON
in
A MIDSUMMER NIGHT’S DREAM.
Prices : D.C. & O.S. (Reserved), 7/6 ; at Doors, ('</• ; Stalls,
t/-; Gallery to 7.30,3/-; thereafter, 1/- Plans at Paling's.
Ad el phi theat r e. Sydney.
Direction : WILLIAM ANDERSON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of THE GIRL WHO KNEW A BIT.
SATURDAY EVENING NEXT,
A Strongly Augmented Company will give the Initial
Svdnev Performance of a Powerful Drama, takeri from
VICTORIA CROSS’S NOVEL, entitled,
LIFE’S SHOP WINDOW.
PRICES : 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/- Early Doors 6d. extra.
PALACE THEATRE. tf YDN E Y.
Direction: WILLIAM ANDERSON.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE GRAF TER S.
Complete American Co. of 60 artists in a two-act
Musical Burlesque.
BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
PRICES: 55., 3s, and Is. Early Doors Gallery, Is.
{ extra.
|OS E P H McCABE.
New Series of
ILLUSTRATED LECTURES
on
EVOLUTION ASTRONOMY.
Commence
PROTESTANT HALL, JULY 1.
Prospectus now obtainable Cole’s Book Arcade.
CARLYLE SMYTHE.
H E LITTLE T H E A T R E
(With the BIG Attractions),
CA3TLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
AN OUTBURST OF WARRANTED ENTHUSIASM.
EVERY EVENING, AT 8.30.
HUGH C. BUCKLER and MISS VIOLET PAGET
in
BOBBY BURNIT.
PRICES : Orchestral Stalls, 6/-; Stalls, 4/-; Gallery (till
7.30), 2/-; after that hour, 1/-
NATIONAL amphitheatre” SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
BRENNAN-FULLEIt’S VAUDEVILLE CO.
THE ROYAL BANZAI.
FAMILY OF JAPANESE EQUILIBRISTS. THE
ABSOLUTE LIMIT. IN THRILLING AND DARING
SENSATIONALISM. And Fourteen Other Great Acts.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Theatre.
g PENCE R’S LYCEUM, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING.
QUO VADIS? y
THE WORLD’S GREATEST ACHIEVEMENT IN
SILENT PORTRAYAL.
8000 ft.—A FULL EVENING’S ENTERTAINMENT.
yHE OLYMPIA, SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEE—SATURDAY.
DE GROEN’S YICE-REGAL ORCHESTRA.
3d. to 2s. Plan at Nicholson's (No Extra Fee).
£LHA M B R A THEA T R E, SYDNEY.
HAYMARKET VAUDEVILLE HOUSE.
TO-NIGHT AND EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES:'WED. AND SAT. AT 2.30.
STAR VAUDEVILLE & MINSTRELS.
An Entire Change of Artists and Programme Weekly.
PRICES: 1/6, 1/- and 6d. Saturday, 2/-, 1/6 and 1/-
Doors 7.15, Overture 8.
CS Y D N E Y <TI ACIARIUM.
REAL ICE SKATING.
X
Three sessions daily: 10 to 12, 3 5.
8 to 10.30. A
Admission, 2s. Skate Hire, 6d.
Children: Morning and afternoon only,
Admission Is.
Children: Saturday morning. Admission 6d
’Phone 492 Glebe. DUNBAR POOLE, Manager.
I MPER I A L ROLLER RINK,
1 Foot of William Street.
A REFINED RINKING RENDEZVOUS
for *
FASTIDIOUS PEOPLE.
NOW OPEN. THREE SESSIONS PER DAY
JAMES C. BENDRODT,
General Manager.
r> I C K A It I) .S’ T I v 01. I T H K A I K h.
■* Personal Direction Mr. HUGH D. McINTOSH.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE FLYING BANVARDS.
TWO L4DIES AND FOUR GENTLEMEN.
THE WORLD’S GREATEST AERIAL ACT.
DIRECT FROM ENGLAND AND FIRST APPEAR-
ANCE IN SYDNEY.
Grace and Elegance, with a touch of Comedy and a
bit of Sensation.
I’ E It A HOUSE, M E L B O U R N E.
Personal Direction Mr. HUGH D. McINTOSH.
O HANA SAN & CO., in the Original Scena,A Vision
of Japan.”
THE DE BRUNS, in their Novelty Dancing Act
CAPT. TIE BOR’S EDUCATED SEALS * SEA LIONS.
ALEXANDER PRINCE, the Famous Concertinist.
DALE & BROOKES, Musical Comedy Artists.
ELIZABETH CLAIR, Vocalist and Instrumentalist.
BELLCLAIR BROS., American Athletes.
Plan at Allan’s. 45., 35., 25., Is.
The auditorium,
MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
The most unique of all shows:
TOK I 0 TOW i\\
Thirty Japanese Star Artists in “Vaudeville of
Japan.”
SPECIAL SCENERY, EFFECTS, COSTUMES.
PRICES: 3s, 25., Is. PLANS AT ALLAN’S.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee: GEO. MARLOW LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Georpre Marlow’s Dramatic Combination in the
New and Original Play of London Life,
THE BEGGAR GIRL’S WEDDING.
POPULAR PRICES. Plan at Pianola Co.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JUNE 21,
An Attraction of World-wide Importance.
ADELINE GENEE,
Supported bv M. ALEXANDER VOLININ. MLLE.
SCHMOLZ and the IMPERIAL RUSSIAN BALLET.
Plan at Allan’s. Reserved Seats & Dress Circle, 7/6.
Balcony and Stalls, 4/-; Pit and Gallery, 2/-
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Direction J. C. WILLI A MSON. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
FIRST PRODUCTION IN AUSTRALIA
of the Great American Dramatic Success,
WITHIN THE LAW.
PRICES: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-
Stalls, 4/-. Gallery, 2./-. Plan at Allan’s.
"T*IIE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
I * Sole Lessee and Manager: William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Return of the Bert Bailey Dramatic Co.
in
The New and Attractive Australian Drama,
THE NATIVE BORN.
POPULAR PRICES. PLANS AT ALLAN’S.
gUOC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
MELBOURNE COMIC OPERA CO.
For a Limited Season,
Arrangement
Messrs. J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
THE GIRL BEHIND THE
COUNTER.
MOUNTED ON A STUPENDOUS SCALE.
If You Want to Have a Good Laugh, See
THE GIRL BEHIND THE COUNTER.
II You Want to Hear Gems of Music, See
THE GIRL BEHIND THE COUNTER.
If You , Desire to See Something New, Drop in and
Inquire for
THE GIRL BEHIND THE COUNTER.
Produced by Messrs. R. Shortland and John Wallace.
Musical Director, .Mr. Cyril Brinkley.
BOX PLAN at Allan’s, Menzies’, the Grand and
Oriental.
IyBELBOURXE REPERTORY xnr***'
,VI Direction : GKEGAN McMaHgL^ EATBe -
At the ATHENAEUM HALL.
FANNY’S FIRST PLAyU A ™ RD^ Y ' j UNe
By Bernard Shaw. jg°g£*Y JUNE 80
THE INTERIOR (Maeterlinck) a ll
FKITZCHEN (Sudermann) I Thursday
HOW HE LIED TO HER HUSBAND (Shaw) I J CLY3. *
BOX PLANS at BOOKLOVERS’ LIBRARY
PIANOLA no ™ SATURDAY JUnI n
Tele
CE SKATING.
I
T H E
SKATING
G L A C I A K I XJ M,
MELBOURNE.
EVERY AFTERNOON: ADMISSION 21
EVERY EVENING: ADMISSION \j.
YRIC THEATRE, Chapel St.,
■ EVERY NIGHT at 8. MATINEE. SATUu’uAL
THE FAMOUS “NON-FLICKER"
PHOTOPLAYS
on the Marvellous "Mack" Screen, together with ,i.
Superb LYRIC ORCHESTRA. flri. to 2s i»u, l4 '*
Allan’s, C. M. Read's and the Lyric Theatre CafG
piKKCTION AMALGAMATED PICTURES
Melbourne's Latest and Finest Picture Palace
THE MAJI STIC THEATRE.
FLINDERS STREET, opp. Princes Bridge Station.
Continuous MatinGes Daily from 12 to 6 o'clock.
3d., Gd. and 1/-
Evening Prices: 2/-, 1/6, 1/- and 6d. Plan at Allan's.
LYMPIA.O L Y M P I A
L Y M P I A. MELBOURNE.
(Just across Princes Bridge).
WHERE ARE TO BE SEEN THE UNRIVALLED
SPENCER’S PICTURES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS AT 2.30.
EVERY NIGHT 8.
\A/ E S T’S PALACE. MELBOURNE
THE BEST WEST’S PICTURESthe BEST
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8. MatinGes Wednesdays, Saturdays,
and All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in t:ie Would
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to b«
seen at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change
every week. Prices —6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen's.
Birch carroll
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of which
we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Companv of Australasia Ltd.
Heap Office: ROTHWELL CHAMBERS, BRISBANE.
GIVE ME 15 MINUTES EACH DAY OF YOUR TIME,
says
WALTER BENTLEY,
and I’ll teach you how to
THE DISTINGUISHED
ACTOR,
MAKE SPEECHES.
PROPOSE TOASTS,
ADDRESS BOARD MEETINGS,
SELL MORE GOODS,
STRENGTHEN MEMORY,
DEVELOP STRONG PERSONALITY,
CONVERSE WINNINGLY,
ACQUIRE POISE AND DISTINCTION,
and
OBTAIN PERFECT HEALTH,
BY CORRECT BREATHING AND PHYSICAL CULTURE.
* Thousands of business and professional people have become convincing speakers in public and in
business by following a Mail Course in their spare time at home or at their office. It has increased
their power and influence, and put them on the straight road to BIG SUCCESS..
“WORTH MUCH MORE THAN IT COSTS.”
Only one address: Ladies and Gentlemen, call or write at once.
301 n P T TT STREET. OPPOSITE CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
BUILT TO BEAT THE BAND
q THE BESSES O’
THE BARN have
gone but the Besses o’
the Pocket have come
to stay.
fgh
fg
<J The Feeds are made
of Bell Metal, and
•re tuned to Perfec-
tion.
Crackajack
Mouth
Organs
smr MADE IN SIX STYLES
Crackajack Professional 40 Reeds, 3'- Crackajack Double, 40 Reeds,. . . 1/*
Crackajack Senior, 20 Reeds, . . . 2/- Boss Cracker, 20 Reeds 1/•
Crackajack Junior, 20 Reeds, . . . 1/6 Crackajack Cadet, 20 Reeds. . . . 6d
SOLD EVERYWHERE
Sole Agent!*
Allan & Co. pty. Ltd.
*
Melbourne, Adelaide
Bendgo & Geelong
Evening Gowns
Call for Necklets
of the daintiest and most fascinating designs.
WE MAKE THEM.
We secure the latest designs each mail, and
make them up on the premises. We thus show
the very best work in Necklets, and yet sell them
at bedrock prices. Our stock of uncut jewels
is probably the largest in Sydney, so that we
are able at a moment’s notice to make any dis-
tinctive ornament. As loose jewels pay no
Customs duties, we sell here as low as in Lon-
don, and very often lower.
FAIRFAX § ROBERTS LTD.,
The Oldest Jewellery
House In Sydney,
23 S 25 HUNTER STREET.
Choice whole Pearls and Dia-
monds set in Platinum with Plat
inum Neck Chain,


The London Bank of Australia, Limited.
Authorised Capital
Subscribed Capital
Paid-up
Uncalled, including Reserve Liability
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits
£2,886,067 10 0
1,276,747 10 0
548,392 10 0
728.355 0 0
225,541 6 2
BOARD OR DIRECTORS.
DAVID FINLAYSON, Esq., Chairman.
ROBERT .TAMES BLACK, Esq.
GORDON HUNTLY CAMPBELL, Esq.
ANDREW CUNNINGHAM, Esq.
lion. Mir Arthur LAWLEY, G.C.S.t.
EDWARD VINCENT REID, Esq.
GEORGE SLADE, Esq.
Presented tho Orrfina*»tr r* i, r • .. DIRECTORS' REPORT)*
.v (-xeneral Meeting of Proprietors, held at Winchester House, Old Broad Street, E.C.jHall No* 174), at 12 o’clock noon, on Wednesday, 30th April. 1913.
Slat T December t la r st. PreSellt ReP ° rt * aeC ° mpanip(l ’ as by Audited Accounts for the year ended
and all taxes’, includingFwiera/ 1 ' ancTstate manatrPrTlent charges
amount to ~ .. lax anrl State Government. Land Taxes,
. . £112,719 10 ’ 9
25,042 11 11
To which is added the amount brought forward
making together
After providing for
T,S,*i» 4 fee"« T ?u n „d' n * b . 1 ? D ' PO " , <°' w
Bonus,of 10% to the Staff . ,
leaving a balance to be Carried forward to hext account ol .
.£137,762 2 8
. . £26,720 16
. . 50,000 0
. 5,500 0
~,,, , A* 11 ®!!? remains a balance to be dealt with of
Which the Directors recomtnend be appropriated as follows:—’
‘ -1912 Freference Shares for the year ended 31st
Dividend of’s% on the Ordinary Shares for the same period 1! * H’,413 ll
82,220 16
£55,541 6
30j448 14 6
£25,092 ll g
The season continued dry during the first half of last veals resulting in loss of stock and, consequently,
some reduction in wool shorn, but fortunately the advance in the price of wool will,, to a material extent,
make up for the shortage in quantity. The grain harvest was a good one. So far owing to fairly good
autumn rains, the pastoral and agricultural outlook for the winter is on the whole favorable. Trade
continued very active, but in common with the rest of the world, Australia has experienced a tightening
money market, and it has become necessary to impose restrictions in various directions to check undue
expansion, but the trade position is believed' to be sound.
It is with deep regret that the Directors have to announce the death of their esteemed colleagues the
late Mr. David Quixano HenriqueS, and the Rt. Hon. Lord Ilkeston, P.C.
Under the provisions of the Bunk's Articles of Aasociation, the vacancies thus caused on the Board
have been filled by the appointment of Mr. Robert .lames Black, and the Honorable Sit Arthur Lawley,
G.C.S.I. The llirector retiring Under the provisions of the Bank’s Articles of Association is Mr. George
Slade, who, being eligible, offers himself for re-election,
The Bank’s Auditors, Messrs. Price, Waterhouse & Co., retire, and again offer themselves for re-election.
Following the meeting of shareholders, a meeting of transferable deposit receipt holders will be held
at 12.20 p.m., at which Mr. Andrew Cunningham, and Mr, Gordon Hurttly Campbell, the retiring
Depositors’ Directors, will offer themselves for re-election, . .
The transfer bobks are cioSed from isth April ttt 30tn April, both days inclusive, Warrants for
dividends, less inCbrhe tax, wili be issued, payable on ahd after 2nd May next, to those Shareholders whose
names appear On the register oh the 15th instant. g v tjrder of the Board,
71 Old Broad Street, W, 11. BARBER,
London, E.C., 17th April, 1913, London Manager and Secretary.
JBALANCISSHEET, 31st DECEMBER 1912.
Authorised Capital:—-
61,603 Ordinary Shares of £22/10/-
160,000 Preference Shares of £lO ..
Subscribed Capital:—
49,103 Ordinary Shares of £22/10
Uncalled and Reserve Liability
liabilities,
£1,104,817
736,545
. . £1,386,067 10
.. 1,500,000 0
£2,886,067 10
10 0
0 0
Amount prepaid by Trustees in respect of
Uncalled Capital and Reserve Liability ..
17,193 Preference Shares of £lO, fully paid..
Capital Paid-up
Reserve Fund . . . . .. .. \ \
Balance of undivided Profit
548,392 10
170,000 0
55,541 6
0
0
0
0
0
2
Transferable Deposit Receipts due 1917
Deposits and Current Accounts . . . , . . ' ' ' ’
Bills Payable and other Liabilities (including reserves for doubtful debts)
Notes in Circulation (secured as per contra)
£773,933 16 2
589,445 19 4
4,982,307 6 4
1,032.043 2 2
11,208 10 0
£7,388,938 14 0
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion, Cash Balances, Government Notes, and Notes of
other Banks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. £1,194,569 17 2
Money at Call and Short Notice in London . . . . . . . • 70,000 0 0
Investments and Bills Receivable on hand and in transit .. •• .1,164,573 5 8
Investments held by Trustees against Notes in Circulation .. .. 13,500 0 0
Bills Discounted, Advances and other Assets ..
Bank Premises
£2,442,643
4,554,301
391,994
2 10
11 2
0 0
£7,388,938 14 0
STATEMENT OF PROFITS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31st DECEMBER, 1912.
Balance of undivided Profit, as per last Report .. .. .. .. .. ... . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £55,483 1 5
Less: Dividend for the year ended 31st December, 1911 .. .. .. . . .. .. .. .. .. •• •• •• 30,440 9 0
£25,042 11 11
£217,368 9 7
£82,838 2 2
12,018 6 11
9,792 9 9
—£104,648 18 10
— 112,719 10 9
Deduct: Interest at \\% on Transferable Deposit Receipts
Transfer to Reserve Fund >3
Bonus of 10% to the Staff
£137,762 2 8
. . £26,720 16 6
50,000 0 0
5,500 0 0
. 82 220 16 6
Profit in London and in Australia, after providing tor Interest due and accrued on Current Deposits,
deducting Rebate on Bills, and making provision for bad and doubtful debts
Less: Salaries and General Expenses in Australia—including remuneration to Local Directors, Rent,
Rates. Repairs, Stationery, Travelling, etc.
Salaries and General Expenses in London —including Directors’ and Auditors’ Fees, Rent, Repairs,
Stationery, Telegrams, etc.
Land Tax, Income Tax, and Tax' on Note Issue ..
Balance of undivided Profit, as above . .
. . £55,541 6 2
AUDITORS’ REPORT.
We certify that we have obtained all the informa-
tion and explanations we have required. We have
to report that we have examined the above balance-
sheet with the books at the Head Office and the re-
turns from the Branches, and in our opinion it is
properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct
view of the state of the Bank’s affairs, according to
the best of our information and the explanations
given to us, and as shown by such books and returns.
PRICE, WATERHOUSE & CO., Auditors.
London, April 11, 1913.
D. FINLAYSON, 'j
R. J. BLACK,
GORDON H. CAMPBELL, J
Directors.
W. H. BARBOUR, London Manager and Secretary.
TOBACCO QUALITIES
IT is an admitted fact that present tobacco
crops are eminently unsatisfactory, and
manufacturers who are compelled to
purchase at the present time cannot obtain
so good a tobacco as hitherto. It is owing
to this deterioration that many cigarettes
are degenerating in quality.
THE manufacturers of “Winfred”
Cigarettes are in a unique position.
They hold an enormous stock of the
finest selected tobacco purchased during the
past three or four years, so that they are able
to maintain, for some years to come, the
present high-class quality of their cigarettes
without increasing the price.
CIGARETTES
To be obtained throughout Australasia.
10 for 6d.
10 for 6d.
Sole Manufacturers : ARDATH TOBACCO CO. LTD., London.


Very Itchy. Scratched and Made It
Bleed. Cuticura Ointment Cured
Her. Mother Also Used Cuticura
Soap and Ointment for Eczema
on Hands and it Disappeared.
Cobden, Vic.—"My little girl suffered
from birth till she was over two and a half
years, with a roughness and peeling on her
face. It used to be very itchy and she used
to scratch it and make it bleed and then it
would look so sore I used to be ashamed of
it. I tried many remedies but nothing did
it any good. I saw the offer of a free sample
tin of Cuticura Ointment and I sent for one.
It did her so much good that I bought a tin
and in about three weeks there was not a
feign oh her face of the sore, From that out,
there is not a blemish On her face, and she
has a nice fekin. Nothing but the Cuticura
Ointment Cured her after two and a half
years standing.
"About my hands; my hands got very
gore. It used to come in tiny blisters and it
Was very itchy and I could not keep from
scratching it, and it Would get so sore. I
fepent a lot of mohey. At last I started td
Use Cuticura Soap and Ointment and id
about four weeks’ time a new skin seemed to
grow, and all trace of the eczema disappeared
and never returned. Many a night's rest I
lost with the pain and irritation of my hands.”
(Signed) Mrs. M. Jonfes, July 10, 1911.
To remove dandruff, prevent dry, thiri
and failing hair, allay itching and irritation,
and promote the growth and beauty of
the hair, frequent Shampoos with Cuticura
Soap, assisted by Occasional dressings with
Cuticura Ointment, afford a inost effective
and economical treatment. Sold wherever
civilization has penetrated. Liberal sample
of each mailed free, with 32-p. Skin Book,
Address R. Towns & Co., Sydney. N. S. W,
The Liver is the
Road to Health
If the liver is right the whole system Id
right. CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER PILLS
Will gently awaken yOur
sluggish, clogged-up liver
and cure constipation,
stomach trouble, in-
active bowels, loss
of appetite,
sick head-
ache and
dizzinesß.
Purely
Vegetable.
You need them.
h
Carters
• ITTLE •
■ IVER
| PILLS.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
The GENUINE must bear signature
9.
Youi^v
gfh
fg
hfg
Mexican
WALNUT STAIN
for Grey Hair
IS THE
only permanent and really satisfactory
ONE SOLUTION Hair Stain
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES
The Best Bush Doctor of A. 11!
If you’ve got a poisoned hand, a sore leg, an abscess,
a boil, a running sore, Eczema in any form, Barcoo
ro t—or if you’ve a wound that won’t heal or a
jagged cut, all you need
have to cure it is a tin of
Wilkinson’s
Eclectric Ointment.
Price 1/6, Posted 1/9. J WILKINSON, Chemist,
K.E.8., Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difflenlty In expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GKIMAULT & Co's INDIAN CIOAB-
ETTES. Bold by all ChemitU.
T
HE Australian Magazine. THE LONE
HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d.
HOWTO
GROW HAIR
A Simple, Safe and Reliable Way that Produces Surprising Results.
NEW PREPARATION CAUSES BIG STIR AMONG HAIR SPECIALISTS.
The above clearly shows Results from a Short Course of my True Halr-drowlng Compound.
10,000 FREE TRIAL BOXES.
Those who are troubled with falling hair, dandruff,
baldness, itching scalp, etc., know full well the
humiliation that they cause. There is no need, how-
ever, of such conditions. These troubles can. be
quickly overcome by my True Hair Grower.
I am not an advertising quack, but am a business
man. My hair began to grow thin about the time
I reached the age of thirty. When I had reached the
age of thirtj -five the top of my head was quite bald.
I had considerable pride, and sought for something
to cause renewed growth. I invested in every pre-
paration that I could see or hear of, and here let me
sav that not only did I try all the English so-called
restorers, but those of Continental Europe. I also
visited specialists. My experimenting cost me many
sovereigns and considerable time —yet the hairs came
not. I had given up the idea of ever growing hair
again. One afternoon, while enjoying a brief busi-
ness respite by an Alpine trip, I fell in with an old
collegiate chemist, whose hair was particularly plen-
tiful. 1 jokingly remarked that I wished he could
spare some of his hair for my benefit. This lead him
to tell me that he understood the human hair as well
as a good dentist understands teeth. He wrote out a
formula, and suggested that I have a quantity of the
compound prepared. I did this a few days later. I
was astonished to see the hair coming forth after
several applications, and within six weeks my head
was covered by a firm, yet soft, black growth of hair.
Since then the hair on my head has been as luxuriant
as when in my school days. Having arranged for
the legal right to do so, I have for some time been
privately selling this marvellous hair-growing com-
pound. I hold over one thousand letters from people
who have actually grown new hair through the
medium of my true hair grower. I do not pretend
to say it is the only hair grower in the world—l am
not interested in decrying others —but I do assert
that it is the most reliable, and in the end by far the
cheapest.
Baldness, Dandruff, Itching, etc.,
Free Trial Coupon.
Cut out this Coupon and send with 3 stamps
to cover postage, etc., and I will immediately
post a large trial box of my True Hair Grower.
John Craven Burleigh, Dept. 7, 107 Castlereagh
Street. Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Conrincinf
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices In
England—
-1/H, 2/9 & 4/6.
Made in England.
h
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectually
cuts short ail
attacks of
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, end In
‘he cough of BRONCHITIB and
CONSUMPTION.
Acts llko a charm In
DIARRHCEA and simple DYSENTERY.
If you want the very best
Flannelette
the Old Country Produces
buy HORROCKSES’
LATFST VICTORY
GRAND PRIZE
BRUS'EJLS
EXHIBITION, 1910
SEE HORROCKSES’ NAME ON
SELVEDGES and decline all substitutes
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and Storekeepers.
The “Swan-Safety” is simpler and more reliable than any
other pen made; may be carried in any position, in any pocket,
handbag or trunk, without fear of leakage; with the “ladder”
feed, erratic working is out of the question; the nib is the
product of over 60 years’ experience; the holder is beautifully
balanced and holds a good supply of ink.
»WA
POVMTPEN.
Sold by all
Stationers.
Catalogue Free on Request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London, W.C.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only)
J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255a George St., Sydney
fgh
&
2
A
The food that enjoys the universal recom-
mendation of medical men.
€][ For use during illness and con-
valescence.
€]} For weakly infants and over-
growing children. .
€]| As a supplementary food in
cases of malnutrition, and in all cases o
dyspepsia and impaired digestion.
fg
oothing and comforting, when other foods cause pain. It is
the most easily digested of all foods, but is not pre-digeste
A full descriptive booklet may beobttined postfcee on appligation^to
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd.. Otter Works ICANCHESTEK, EHOJ.
117, Pitt Street, SYDNEY, N.B.W.
Bfnrrrs Foe •' f' *oM in tint, bv flmwitft. otr..
Bios
Food
Going bail for an arrested person is said
to be the merest matter of form in many
Melbourne cases. A friend of the person
in trouble introduces himself to a Jay Pay
as being good for the required guarantee,
and the bond is signed and the prisoner is
free to disappear. Next week, when the
vanished fugitive is marked “absent” on
the charge sheet it appears that the man
who bailed him out is also missing, or else
he turns up with the information that he is
“stone, motherless,” and would never have
incurred a penalty if he could have paid it.
Then the majesty of the law reckons itself
outraged and indignantly blows its nose, or
the Crown Solicitor’s nose, or the Attorney-
General’s nose.
“Vic.”: There are two J. W. Flemings in
Melbourne —one the well-known Anarchist;
the other, J. W. Fleming, of Brunswick, the
oldest Melbourne native. The latter Flem-
ing was born in 1837. His father was a
butcher; Flemington was named after him.
This Fleming remembers Fitzroy when it
had only half a dozen houses and Colling-
wood and Richmond Were wild, uninhabited
bush. He was lost on Collingwood Flat.
Afterwards he became first president of the
Australian Natives’ Association, being
elected at a meeting in an Elizabeth-street
hotel. Apart from that the tnost notable
thing about him is his §4 years in municipal
life, ih the course of Which he has been
seven times Mayor of bricky Brunswick.
From our Tame Court Correspondent •
A cable message of last week mentioned thn fhe
Duchesse d’Orleans (Who was an Austrian •n-
-duchess) is seeking a judicial separation and my
from her husband, the head of the Bourbo i-ans
House, on the score of desertion. If Frr turns
royalist again the warring pair should ha st re-
fusal of the position of king and que Their
chances of getting any such offer are s’ • at the
best, however ; and a matrimonial row die will
do them no good. The Due and Duck .uive been
notoriously bad friends for years r Like so
many of his illustrious ancestors he ... been quick
off the mark all his life, and has m .sed few chances
in the way of frivolity. The ekpl. nation of why a
judicial separation, and hot a divorce, is being
asked for lies, Of course, in the fact that the parties
are Catholics. The Due is a queer contradictory
sort of Character iff divers ways. He took a Commis-
sion in ah, English regiment, and he has all his life
been an advocate of the divine right of monarchy to'
do what it_ dashed well. likes—especially in regard to
a debased institution like a Republic. Yet when the
Boer war broke but he was ail for the Itepublic and
dead against the. hatioh uhder whose flag he had
served. Carari D’Ache, the famous French cartoon-
ist, was producing amuSing, but highly libellous and
occasionally obscene, drawings of Chamberlain, Lord
Roberts, Kitchener, the Queen and others at the
time. The Due wrote a letter of warm congratula-
tion to Caran D’Ache. Simultaneously with its pub-
lication appeared art absolutely hair-raising picture
of Queen Victoria which set half Europe laughing.
The Due was kicked but Of the bachelors’ Club and
cut by English society. At Wood Norton 1 , his coun-
try place ih England, he kept up precisely the same
royal state as though he were King of France.
Within the confines of this Comparatively small
estate the whole mummery of royalty was gone
through, year in, year Out. This indicates that he
possesses at least one essential as a monarch—
namely, absence of a Sehse Of the ridiculous.
The person who objects to compulsory
training for the defence of the white women
and children in Australasia and the purity
of the race’s blood is a weird and padded-
room variety of crank. The other day he
was the author of a communication to Dr.
McArthur, S.M., Wellington (M.L.), urging
that popular Beak to throw up his billet
rathef than carry oht the law of the country
which fines those who refuse to drill. Said
this remarkable individual:—»
The compulsory military training is a notorious
outrage upon British freedom. It is an abomination,
a monstrosity and a damnable hobby ; and those who
enforce it are deserving of the utmost abuse. I
wish you would show this letter to the Minister of
Justice. Those who want to serve the Devil may
do so, but they have no right to compel others.
(Please keep your eye upon God’s judgment, nigh
at hand.)
The difficulty is to know exactly what form
God’s judgment will take. The Koreans
Teckon it came their way in the shape of a
Japanese horde that set fire to their Queen
and enslaved the country because they had
no army to defend themselves with. You
never can tell.
As soon as they get a few minutes’ breath-
ing time Commonwealth Ministers ought to
dip into the Federal land tax tangle, and
see if they can’t straighten things out.
What sort of a tangle it is can best be
judged by the fact that the staff is still at
work on the 1910 tax, making all sorts of
adjustments. The principal trouble is over
the land held by companies in which people
are interested who are taxpayers in respect
of other land. Their microscopic interest in
the co.’s land sometimes puts them up in
another class, and makes them liable for
another farthing or so; and the digging out
of this extra farthing seems to be costing a
heap of money. The whole business is in
need of simplification, and the officers ought
to have enough experience now to be able
to suggest where the simplification should
come in. Tax-gathering from people is a
good deal like metal-extracting from ore.
The metallurgist is always aiming at a 100
per cent, recovery, which means theoretical
perfection ; but his bosses know better than
to let him run things on theoretical-perfec-
tion lines. They want profits, and there is
no profit in nosing around at pounds of ex-
pense after the elusive, ultimate ha’penny.
[S. H. Prior, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
“Torres” speaks a literary
Cabled that Field-Marshal Roberts (of Course)
gives his enthusiastic approval to a vague scheme
for colonising Melville Island with old English sol-
diers. For 26 years the residents have been lessee
Robinson, two whites and a number of blacks, work-
ing the buffalo-slaughtering “industry.” The grand-
iloquent English newspapers, peppering Australia
with high-flown language, as usual, dubs Robinson
the Buffalo King; so the Cattle King, Wool King,
Silver King, Cotton King, and so forth, have an-
other mate. Why isn’t there a Turnip King? Mel-
ville Island, from 20 to 30 miles off Darwin, is 18
times bigger than the Isle of Wight, and has
1,536,000 acres. Robinson has been in Melbourne
lately. Through the agency of one Lloyd, he has
been negotiating for years with the Australian Gov-
ernment. He obtained a freehold grant of the island
in 1873, when he landed there, but got it under
conditions. He was, however, able to comply with
the conditions in respect to only 5000 acres,
which he got at 2s. 6d. per acre, payable in 14
years. This he still holds. He thinks grants of
freehold would be the wise thing, and doubts whether
the right men will be attracted otherwise. With re-
gard to the future he recalls that Malta carries
216,000 people, and it is only one-twentieth the size
of Melville, and hasn’t as rich soil or as equable a
climate. The old-soldier proposal, to be bossed by
an English co., provides for Javanese or Papuan
labor, with the redcoats as just fighting cocks.
Robinson says no to this. It is not generally known
that an unsuccessful attempt was made long ago to
colonise Melville and the mainland with soldiers.
Give us men who can work and intend to work, says
the old hand; no others will do for the North.


“Roadster” Cover
is not only cheaper than the “first-grade” cycle cover of our leading competitor,
but is a better quality and lasts longer than any other tyre of the kind.
What is the explanation, you ask?
Simply this:
Instead of wasting time and effort on the production of various qualities
at various prices, thus increasing the cost of the best quality, we concentrate the
whole of our energy and vast manufacturing resources on the production of
ONE QUALITY ONLY—THE BEST.
To be obtained from the Leading Agents.
A 10
THE fICCORDEON for Country Residents.
h
fgh
We don’t believe any Accordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated
STAR Trombone Accordeon.
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
larsre bellows protected by steel corners ; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price £l.
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Orjran Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Brice £1 7s. 6d.;
postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical
Instruments, Watches, Jewellery, etc.,
210 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
L. & C. HARDTMUTH S
“KOH-I-NOOR”
Pocket Propelling Pencils.
fg
Made in a variety of charming
styles, one of which is here illus-
trated. Some styles have re-fills
at the end. Others, for writers
who always like a sharp point to
their pencil, have a pencil sharp-
ener at the end. Each pencil
is perfectly made —“ a thing of
beauty, and a joy for ever.” The
lead, which is “ Koh-i-noor,” does
not slip or break under pressure,
and one twist of the fingers brings
it into action. Too simple and
too well made to get out of order,
and far superior to any other
pocket pencils made.
In Various Styles, Sizes and Prices,
Of Stationers, &c., everywhere.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, Ltd., Koh-i-noor House, London, England.
(AUSTRALIA : 350, George Street, Sydney.)
dinnefords]
» Magnesia
DINNEFORD’S
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see that
"Dinneford & Co."
is on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Kemedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
wm
m
a*
Tv
k
m
BUNYIP
0
M
One man saved the price of his Bunyip Tree and Stump Puller in clearing
6 acres of land. This is a common experience with every “ Bunyip " owner.
The “Bunyip" is the most effective, safe and economical Puller on the
market to-day; one man can easily work it. We have sold hundreds in Australia.
We ship the “ Bunyip " as far afield as Russia.
Write for the fullest particulars.
Ask also about the Speedie Patent Rabbit Trap—lo/6 complete.
John Cooper iSons,
“For all Farming Ironmongery,"
287-289 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE


The BEST HOUSE for all SMOKERS’ REQUISITES
SMOKE.
SUNOL
. ---
The
Perfect
Pipe
Tobacco.
Highest Grade
Virginian.
Awarded Four
Gold Medals.
DARK OR
LIGHT.
In Plug or Cut.
61-
per lb.
Post
Free.
h
THE BEST PIPES
OBTAINABLE.
They Surpass all others In QUALITY, FINISH,
DEBICN and WORKMANSHIP.
m
Made from the f inest Quality Selected Old Briar
Root, with Superior Hand-Cut Para Vulcanite
Mouthpieces.
Extra Heavy Sterling Silver Mounts.
IN ALL THE LEADING SHAPES
Price O
irO
eacH
(Post Free).
A DELIGHTFUL 8 FASCINATING Cigarette.
Three Witches
H
I
C
H
E
S
T
G
R
A
D
E
I*
0?
li
?
I
A
U
n
co
P
VIRGINIA
*:
ft
1fj)W\Y'
V
d.Morris
&sonsL t p
LONDON E
p
E
R
F
E
C
T
L
Y
M
A
D
E
Made from Selected Sun Ripe Virginian Tobacoo.
They possess a Fragrance of Unique Excellence.
Smoked by Connoisseurs Everywhere.
Price s|_
per 100,
Post Free.
Mick Simmons Ltd.
Head Depot: HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches—City, Suburbs
and Newcastle
fgh
GOLDEN KEY
Cigars de Luxe
(made in England).
Irresistibly Appeal to
all Co n no i sseurs
because of their
Exquisite Flavor
and
Delicate Aroma.
Two Strengths—
MILD and MEDIur~.
Packed in HEAVY CEDAR
PRESENTATION CABINETS,
containing 50 Cigars,
22/6
POST
free.
Try Sample Lot
of 5 Cigars,
packed in Cedar
216
Box
Post Free.
Save “ GOLDEN KEY ”
Bands for Prizes.
PUMPS WATER
DAY AND NIGHT
AUTOMATICALLY.
RAM
RIFE
GET OUR FREE TRIAL
OFFER.
2613 Trinity Bldg.
Low in first cost, easy to instal, no expense to operate, any
capacity desired for Country Homes, Farms, Dairies,
Gardens, Irrigation, Town Plants, Railroad r lanks, etc.
RIFE HYDRAULIC RAMS
RAISE WATER 30 FEET for EVERY FOOT OF FALL.
Satisfaction Guaranteed. Over 7000 in use.
If there is a stream, spring or pond within a mile—
WRITE FOR FREE PLANS and BOOK.
RIFE ENGINE CO. New York.
WILL ANDRADE for PLAYS.
Famous
arces
REE-ACTING
1
Contents —
Area Belle
Betsy Baker
Box and Cox
Ici on Parle Francais
My Turn Next
Rough. Diamond
That Rascal Pat
Turn Him Out
All these are IN ONE
VOLUME for 1/-
(posted 1/1).
New American Joke
Books illustrated: Hot
Stuff Jokelets, 1/1;
Polite Vaudeville, 1/1;
After - Dinner Stories,
1/1 ; Hebrew Jokes,
1/1; Stage Jokes, 1/1 ;
Irish Jokes, 1/1; Talk-
alogues, 1/1 ; Jokes
Without Whiskers, 1/1 ; <
On a Fast Train, 1/1;
On a Slow Train, 1/1;
With a Bum Show,
1/7; Mustard Plasters,
1/7 ; The 125 Best Card
Tricks, 1/8; Brough’s
Secret of Stage Make-
Up, 1/4 ; Comic Recita-
tions, 1/1; Hypnotism,
Mesmerism and Clair-
voyance, 1/1; Amateur
Conjuring Book, 7d.
EASY CONJURING TRICKS.
• \»
fcCNfcA* * / *
Diminishing
Cards.
Ordinary
Playing
Cards, which
are apparent-
ly ‘ squeezed’
smaller and
smaller till
they dissolve
altoge t h e r.
Complete,
with full in-
struct i on s;
anyone can
work them.
29,
posted 3/-
Other Easy Card Tricks are:—(l) Wizard of the
North, and (2) The Two-from-Flve, 6d. each;
posted Bd. Above 3Tricks, post free anywhere, 4■/•
AND ANY BOOK YOU VVANT.-W3
Stamps orPostal Notes of any State will do.
Mention The Bulletin,
Above prices include postage to any address.
Catalogues
FREE.
201 BOURKE STREET. MELBOURNE.
Reduce the Cost of Trustee Administration by appointing .
THE PERMANENT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
LIMITED,
(TRUSTEE COMPANY
17 O’Conneli St.,
BYDNEY.
Incorporated 1888 by Special Act of Parliament to act aa
Trustees, Executors, Attorneys, Agents, Etc.
ESTATES, PROPERTIES, FUNDS, Etc., MANAGED EFFICIENTLY AND ECONOMICAIJA
Full Particulars on Application. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
fg
FARQUHAR’S
Agricultural Machines
are the most economical because the first cost is
the only cost, and as quality is the prime factor
in their construction they give the longest and
best service, and eventually prove themselves
the least expensive.
We manufacture Engines, Boiiers, Traction
Engines, Saw Mills, Horse Powers, Plows,
Harrows, Cultivators, Corn Planters,
Cotton Planters, Grain Drills, Potato
Diggers, Corn Shellers, Store Trucks, etc.
Write for Free Illustrated Catalogues.
Correspondence in all languages.
Cable Address : “ FENANKLE,” New York.
h
A. B. FARQUHAR & GO.,
Cotton Exchange Building,
NEW YORK, U.S.A.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OP NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrib
Engl and, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine's sail,knt Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
ok Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Datk Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id- Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, as 6d posted. Riddle op the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys op Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is , 3d. Parlor Tricks and
Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, Is 2d. All The
Bulletin senes. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales, Is 3d.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science op Llfe
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
38 6d. Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book op Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book op Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
is 3d Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is 6d.
&
1
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
I*- BOOKSELLER TO
THE COMMONWEALTH.-3WI
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
■Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, os 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easj-, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Evert Man His Own Schoolmaster
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying- more.
Compare my prices with others ana
save your cash. Established S 3 1 ears.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
Write tor my ,
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How TO Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks witu Cards, is. Sappho, gen
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d post. D*-Milford smid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical M-
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing M king,
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champion Secret
is -2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d.
History Court of England, Is 3dl p' lg 2d.
Letter Writer, Is. All About In ’ to a ii
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, - p CKgT
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted vest r
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology^
INGERSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 5& H<> . Ad viCl TO A
(Jas. Coates) Is 3d posted. Chevasse Song
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful _ free .
Book, over 300 latest songs, 1 posted.
Bennarr Macfadden’s Works, all
Sappho, Is. Bread and HaNDB ook,
boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. ihk * 100 New
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. lpost g^g aSD
Recitations and Readings, 18 *?• _>. l ar gs Un-
its Curb, Is 2d posted. WE f?mojllus leather
abridged Dictionary, 1700 page , ’ an d 4
„ound, my price, 15s post paid (why
guineas). Bootmaking and Rkpa - > universal-
mos and Electric Motors, Is -•*- M pag es, cloth
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, of Olaikvoyancii,
A**


“ONLY A COLD!”
A LITTLE TALK TO BUSINESS MEN.
“ONLY A COLD.” but a man's head is not clear for business. He may not be
able to grasp the opportunity that he lias waited for so long. His appearance is
against him, too. With swollen face and reddened nose he cannot meet his employer
or business friend with that look of confidence which inspires confidence in return.
Socially he feels himself a nuisance—almost an outcast. Hardly ill enough to compel
him to abandon his engagements, he moves about, the embodiment of physical distress,
and only awakens the feeling of pity or disgust in his acquaintances.
“ONLY A COLD,” to which a man must not give in, but must run the risk of
more serious ills by braving the weather, no matter how inclement it may be. How
many cases of Pneumonia and other serious illnesses, causing the deaths of fathers
of families, result yearly from “ONLY A COLD”?
H
but he died of
consumption, and his fatherless
children are left alone to battle their
way through life.
but it becomes
localised, and Inflammatory Rheuma-
tism has him in its awful grasp. It
goes to the ear, so closely allied to the
throat, and becomes a life-long danger
to the man’s life, or affects the eyes,
and the suffering is unbearable.
“ONLY A C0L.1),” but which others
catch; it spreads through the family,
the office, the club. There is only one
remedy which can he relied upon to cure
a cold, and is powerful enough at the
same time to arrest the development
of much more serious allied diseases.
Tiie sensible and responsible business
men of Australia appreciate the value
of such a remedy, and, as a result,
hundreds of thousands of bottles of
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery yearly
pass over the counters of the Chemists
and Storekeepers of this land and into
the use of heads of families.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is found upon the desk at the office, it is carried in
the pocket of his overcoat, it stands on the mantelpiece at home, hut wherever it is
found, the immunity from Coughs and Colds, the minimum of danger from Bronchitis
and Pneumonia, and protection from all Pulmonary Troubles, is also found. Business
men and workers from all parts of this country testify to the grand work done by Dr.
Sheldon’s New Discovery, and gladly proclaim its merits to the world. Price 1/6 & 3/-
D? Sheldon's
NewDiscover
OUGHS
AND
OLDS
The Australian
Magazine.
THE LONE HANP
The National
rionthly, 6d.
SCHUTE, BELL, &, Co, Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY. •
HOLLOWAY’S
Pills <a Ointment
A TRIAL of HOLLOWAY'S PILLS has meant
The Dawning o/»Brig'Kter Day
to many a sufferer from liver, kidney and stomach
troubles. For over three-score years and ten they
have been supreme in all cases of biliousness,
headache, indigestion, depression and other com-
plaints which usually arise from constipation.
You should also use HOLLOWAY’S OINT-
MENT, which possesses remarkable healing
virtues in cases of skin affections and sores,
rheumatism, lumbago, sciatica, etc. See to
it that you always have a box and pot handy.
To be obtained from all Chemists, Stores,
etc.
Manufactured only at
113 SOUTHWARK ST. (late 78 New Oxford St.), LONDON, S.E.
The Silent Retinue.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Broken Hill Proprietary Company is erecting
steel works at Newcastle at a cost of three million
pounds.— News item.
Messrs. Noske Bros, will despatch to the Port
Melbourne railway pier this week 200 tons of flour,
which will be sent per cargo steamer to Jaffa, on
the coast of Syria, 35 miles north-west of the Citv
of Jerusalem. Formerly the flour for consumption
by the white population of the Holy Land was ob-
tained from Egypt, the ancient granary of Southern
Asia, but of late years Australian flour has found a
market in this part of Turkish territory. This is
the first occasion on which Nhill wheat has been for-
warded to Jerusalem.— Nhill Free Press.
long Express from Adelaide a
I moment paused at Nhill—
At midnight in the Wimmera I saw
the gleaming Mill!
A blaze of light symbolical, a square, deter-
mined tower —-
A strong Australian arsenal of living force
and power!
The sleepers in their carriages saw not these
windowed stars
That flashed beside their cavalcade of east-
ward-speeding cars !
They neither heard nor dreamed of it, yet
in the rolling train
I heard this Psalm Antiphonal—the Anthem
of the Grain!
First sang the Mill exultantly: “Know ye
the Holy Land?
’Tis here ! Not in Jerusalem ’midst barren
rocks and sand !
This is the soil immaculate, this is the sacred
earth ;
Praise ye the mighty Wimmera with songs
of triple worth!
Up from this soil primordial I draw the
golden wheat —
Mine engines dance a saraband with swift,
ecstatic feet!
Hear ye each valve and cylinder lift up its
proud refrain —
‘We are Australia’s acolytes, the servants of
the Grain!”
Now sang the cars swift answering: “He
link the cities twain —
We carry the ambassadors of mighty Flin-
ders Lane !
Yea, not alone to Adelaide bind we the Mel-
bourne mart —-
We reach the cities luminous that lead in
Trade and Art!
We roll by Yass and Albury, we cross the
Murray’s stream—
For us and our ambassadors the lights of
Sydney gleam !
Nay, more than that! —from Broken Hill
we roll with calm disdain
Towards Longreach and to Jericho! Cease
now your Psalm of Grain!”
Then laughed the Mill right scornfully : “I
know the Path ye go—
A Path now wide, now narrowing—a fig for
Jericho!
I know your City Luminous —-that spend-
thrift by the sea
Whose merciless steel tentacles have stran-
gled Industry !
I know yon distant Albury—’tis there the
narrowed Way
Hangs like a sword Damoclean above this
Land to-day!
Ye boast of proud ambassadors —a fig for
Flinders Lane;
I am the Mill omnipotent, and Jaffa knows
my Grain !”
Next mocked the planished cylinders that
drew the swift Express:
“We bring besides ambassadors the Great
who rule the Less !
Hear now yon loud diapason—'tis Wealth’s
united snore ;
The rich men sleep complacently, with boots
outside each door!
This is their Caravanserai —their fast hotel
on wheels ;
Whilst valve and cam throb rhythmical, they
eat their lordly meals !
Ours is the splendid retinue of wealth, and
in Wealth’s train
Our waiters haste obsequious, so prate no
more of Grain !”
Up from the Mill’s vast diaphragm I heard
the challenge peal:
“Who are the Rich but pensioners upon the
Workers’ zeal?
Bring ye the Lords of Dividends from dust-
stormed Broken 11 ill—
Bring ye your herd of millionaires —yea,
whilst the coffins fill!
Hark to the Car Invisible that rolls behind
them all —-
Filled with the SiDnt Retinue who wait the
Trumpet’s Call !
Hark to the sad antiphony sent from the
Car of Pain —
Theirs is the Rich Man’s requiem, mine is
the Psalm of Grain !”
Then from the Car Invisible I heard the
answer break :
“We are the Last Lean Dividend that these,
forsooth, shall take!
We died upon the Barrier —yea, for the rich
man’s sins,
We bled in crimson sacrifice in crosscut,
stope and winze!
The fracteur-fumes our altar reek —on swift-
revolving wheels
We follow Greed and Callousness until the
Trumpet peals !
Then shall the Last Lean Dividend be drawn
by staggered Cain”—
The Answer ceased, and rolling dread I saw
the Car of Pain !
Then sang the Mill compassionate: “The
ancient Empire’s pass —
I feed the Copt beneath the Cross raised by
this Ruling Class !
Whilst Christian and Mahommedan are
locked in grips of death,
I succor far Jerusalem and also Nazareth.
Mine is the Path the nation treads in earnest
dungarees,
Whilst Cain and co. on flying wheels pass
like proud Pharisees!
I am the heir of Raineses, who ruled oer
Egypt’s plain— . . _ ,
My Broken Hills lie underneath the fields of
yellow grain !”
A blaze of light symbolical, a square, deter-
mined tower —- ,
I saw Australia’s arsenal of living strength
and power! , , , ...
I saw the Silent Retinue, and heard this
song till dawn —
This song that thrilled till jarred by some
ambassadorial yawn !
Till waiters came with morning tea, I heard
this distant Mill
That answered Cain with energy and chal-
lenged Broken Hill!
But Cain is proud— he does not hear this
undertone of Pain ,
The Barrier’s antiphonal hlent with the
Psalm of Grain!
N.s.w.
GRANT HERVEY.
Elder Man’s Lane.
V.—THE KIDS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OTHER vehicles go down Blue’s Point-
road to the Horse Ferry and the Gov-
ernment Wharf. They are made of
boxes, and have two little cast-iron wheels
fastened on underneath ; and roughly shaped
strips of packing-case nailed to the sides and
slanting well upwards, for shafts. But some
have a board projection in front from under-
neath, with other little wheels, the bar at-
tached with a sort of swivel, or king-pin—
or pivot; a sort of fore under carriage—
they might be called driving wheels. The
latter build, with clothes-line traces re-
versed and used as tiller-ropes (only the
tiller is for’ard) are admirably adapted to
“coasting.” Going dowm they invariably
contain a “kid”; and, when not in actual
legitimate use by their serious-minded and
practical proprietors, they may be seen
ciuising round, in charge of a still younger
brother, or sister, maybe—with the family
baby aboard; said baby always clean and
contented, and often asleep. The careful
conductor’s attention, on such occasions, is
divided between guarding against a run-
away, and pushing up baby’s ridiculous little
white woollen cap, which is always getting
down over its eyes.
But in workin’ hours the carts are pushed
or dragged by little gentlemen of two-foot-
odd and upwards; aud in times of extra
wreckage and spoil they often go up hill
tandem ; a mate, who is not the proprietor
of a cart, being sometimes pressed into ser-
vice and paid in shares. The carts are
dragged up the steep hill with surprising
loads of lumps of coal and odds gnd ends
of lumber. And I have seen several large
pumpkins—a mighty load for a little man—
that were jolted off a produce cart going
on to the landing. My friend, Benno, the
bottle merchant, and others, often give the
early youngsters a hitch on coming up in
the morning before school hours. Every-
thing is extremely business-like, and pre-
ternaturally solemn.
Besides road, wharf, jetty and landing
place, there is a little sandy beach, round
by the shipsmith’s shop, where is driftwood
on a tiny scale; and flotsam in the shape of
butter boxes, fruit cases, occasional bottles,
etc., from ocean-going craft. This is acces-
sible by means of a tiny punt and ditto
dingy, belonging to the shipsmith’s boys.
There is co-operation, and Socialism, and a
system of barter in kind and for services
rendered.
But for the chartering of the aforesaid
craft, belonging to the “shipsmith’s kids,”
there must be “browns” or “coppers,” of
which more hereafter. Of course, there is
a bloated capitalist and financier amongst
my youngsters. And, for the rest, the stiand
is fairly portioned, and spoils are fairly sold.
Anything that comes ashore on the strip of
sand between the floating jetty and a line
projected from the further wall of the ship-
smith’s shop belongs to my friend and
neighbor, “Georgie,” and his immediate
friends ; anything cast up between that line
and the line of the first row of the piles of
the Fresh Food Co.’s jetty is the exclusive
property of my acquaintance, “Stinker,” and
his pals. Stinker, by the way, was nick-
named thusly on account of a mistaken
maternal parent having christened him
Cecil Percival Reginald. The expanse be-
tween the niles is the happy hunting-ground
of one “Bugs,” Stinker’s protegd, a boy
with a club foot. He was so called in a
hurry, and for the want of a more expres-
sive nickname, on the occasion of the un-
premeditated arrival in the lane of Bugs’
family, with their worldly belongings in a
hired bottle-o’s cart. “By Gee!” exclaimed
Stinker, to the Lords in Convention, on that
occasion—and with a flash of inspiration
during a hurried conference on the question
of appropriately naming the newcomer: “By
Gee, we’ll call him Bugs!” And Bugs he
became. Disputed floatage, that is on the
lines of demarcation, is tossed for. The strip
of sand is called Drowned Pup Beach.
Speaking of flotsam and drift, I remem-
ber, in bygone years, a younger cousin of
mine who had a canvas dingy. His mother
seldom, if ever, had to buy wood or coal,
summer and winter; and, besides, Harry
kept himself well supplied in pocket money
from the proceeds of the sale of bits of
brass, and copper, and copper nails, and
other strange flotsam. Strikes me that tides
were far more erratic along the water front-
ages in those old days, than they are now;
and the water of far greater floating power.
The youngsters recognise a woman’s
rights—in their proper place and under cer-
tain proper circumstances —to a small ex-
tent. There are little ladies, neat and clean
but sometimes barefoot, who humn surpris-
ing armfuls of soft wood scraps up that road
and round into by-lanes, for mother’s cop-
per, pretty much as they hump big baby
brothers round. Stinker and his brethren
will, on special occasions, and with a sort
of good-natured contempt, throw out a few
sticks from their loads for the girls to pick
up. (Contributions received disdainfully,
and after a due, and nose-in-the-air allow-
ance of time for “them fellers” to get past
—but picked up, all the same.)
Round in the by-ways and lanes from
Blue’s Point-road, and above Berry’s Bay—
though blind for the most part, unfortu-
nately, and so not overlooking the bay and
the surprisingly wild bit of bush and cliff
scenery of Ball’s Head beyond—round up
there, I say, in an unexplored region, are
rows of the usual mean and shabby little
weatherboard boxes that depress, dishearten
and disgrace our further suburbs nearly as
much as the horrid little new, brick two-
(Continued on next page.)


Don’t Neglect Y our Skin
n*
vt
<>
;
g? I
'
a
?y
Rub Zam-Buk In, and Avoid
All Winter Skin Troubles,
The skin is one of the most sensitive
parts of the human body: and because it
is also the most exposed to injury and
disease, it ought to get more atton.
tion than most people think is ntvZZ
sary. ~
A sudden chilL dirt in a cold-
craek or small abrasion, and skin-
weaknesses, are all likely to lead to
trouble. Neglected dialings. "chaps.'’
chilblains, cold-sores, or cuts ma\
also cause more serious disease in
the shape of festering wounds, ulcers
or itching sores, and even chrome
eczema is often traceable to neglect
in the early stages of a simple affec-
tion.
Zam-Buk is the ideal application
for the skin at this season.
Xo ordinary ointments or salves, concocted from
rancid animal fats or mineral irritants, can do for the
skin what Zam-Buk does. Such coarse and harmful
preparations never give lasting satisfaction—the sort
that is undoubtedly got from rubbing in Zam-Buk.
Smearing the skin with Zam-Bak has an almost
instantaneous cleansing and restorative effect. Sc
pure are the juices in Zaru-Buk that they sink deep into the pores,
permeating all the minute "machinery" of the tissue, and they just go
to work right away to end the trouble thoroughlyand permanently.
Xo skin looks so well—or is. in fact, so soft, sound and healths
throughout—as the skin that has had frequent dressings of Zam-Bck.
And this perfection is more than "skin-deep." seeing that a health}
skin exerts a wholesome influence upon the rest of the body. Tie
Zam-Buk treatment can reasonably claim to be a revival of one of the
LOST ARTS of the old Grecian days, when proper care of the skin was
universal.
THE WORLD’S GREATEST HEALER
Zam-Buk is invaluable for eczema, ulcers, ringworm. psoriasis, bad
rashes, eruptions, pimples, sores, scabs, scales, piles, pains. <we!liiigs. ha: :>-d
hands, sore faces, cold sores, chilblains, cuts, burns, f-sierings. gatherings,
po*' ned wounds, children's s» res. and all injur- d and di irritated,
inflamed and unhealthy conditions of the skin. Of all chemists and stores at
fgh
“hi u any
99
Is. 6d. and 3s.
6d. per put
(3s. 6d. bolds
r early four
times the Is.
Gd.l : or post
free frran the
Z&m-Bnk Co,
3& Pitt Si_
Sydney.
Colic, Diarrhoea and Dysentery
Are disease? that 'equire immediate attention. In aimost every neighbourhood
someone has died from these diseases before medicine conic be procured or a
physician summoned.
Those who rely upon physicians often find that they are away from home -net
most needed.
Every family, and especially those who reside in the baci blocks, should
at hand a bottle of Chamberlain’s Colic & Diarrnoea Remeoy.
No nhysician can prescrioe a oetter medicine for me purpose for wrier
intended. It is iiivaiuame for Doth cniidren and adoits.
•AS
gs
&
£
m
&
~-K<
:v.
s*
¥SS
e
"Well, remember this—it makes no
die erence where you go or what price
you may pay, it is absolutely im-
possible to get a better medicine tor
the treatment of coughs, colds,
croup, whooping cough, bronchitis
or any other throat or chest
affections than
d
-
COUGH REMEDY.
a
storey terraces and twin "villas" do. I've
been betrayed into being damned wild ov. r
this awful man-made dreariness: hut the
lanes above Berry's Bay are saved from
utter, flat, abandon-hope monotony—from
the ghastly horror of Western and S <uth-
Western suburbs —because the said lanes
are on a height, and a few stops give VOO
views of the m >t beautiful harbor in the
world, and quaint old houses perched on
r<--ks and points. But here mostly live—
r exist —the mothers of the youngsters who
toilfully ami dutifully diag their little truck-
loads of coal and firewood up and round
"home." before and after school-hours. And
the help means much to those mothers.
My haggard women! Whose lives are
. ne ererual round of washing and mending
and worrying. Of child-birth trouble, sick-
ness and death. Of stinting and scraping
and calculating, penny by penny —of ever-
lasting planning and studying, knitted-
browed. when their housework is done and
they should be resting awhile —how to lay
aside for Monday the money for the Rent
that Must be Paid ! Of groping with poor,
thin, fl. sldess hands, a dusty ledges and
under the newspaper on the mean little kit-
chen shelves, for the sixpences, threepenny-
bits or pennies to send Johnnie, or Lizzie,
to the pitiful, dusty, little corner grocery for
half-pounds of butter and qnarter-pounds of
tea. And all this in the widest, m st care-
less and care free, sport-loving, wealthiest
and mi st prrsp r us country in the woild!
Mv haggard w. men. in whose natures little
is left save the harsh and Serve concern for
husbands and children in their trouble or
sickness: the hard, practical kindness and
sympathy for neighbors of their kind—in
their trouble: and the unconquerable wit
and humor when occasion calls f< r it —and
even these qualities pathetic in their under-
current of bitterness. Their very tears have
long since ceased t. "gush" and "s.-ald" and
relieve: they only fall helplessly—like brack-
ish water. Haggard women! I have written
long years for these and their husbands and
children: and if I have done any r • d. and
if I deserve it of my country. I would rather
have carved on my tombstone, not the figure
of an angel—but one f tin -e.
But other youngsters have better-class
homes, though still wixden. in tw.*-st rev
terraces and little cottages with flower-
plots. on the top of the hill and with a view
of the harbor. Of such is my friend aud
neighbor. "Georgie.” Georgie has a bro-
ther named Willie, and Willie has small,
ob sely-set eyes inclined to be red and red-
rimmed. Also, he is loose and shambling,
and uncertain in his e. ining- and g :ngs. S
it g es without saving that little Willie is
shifty, sneaky, cruel, treacherous and cun-
ning. and. of course, a chronic liar: the
exact opposite of Go . g and the rever-
if all that goid little Willie . reht to be.
• But perhaps r >r —considering the conven-
tional little Willie.)
G i re:o s - m pal is a boy who lives on
the other side of us. and is known to his
mother as "You Charley." and Y u Charley
has a brother who is known to th ir mother
as "That Jimmy" or "That Jimmy <f
Mine.” or “That there Jimmy of mine."
No further descriptions are necessary. I
think. Brothers in pairs often go like these
four.
Fuel is yet a eonsid- rati n up here, and
Ge rgie accumulates much—with the most
unwilling assistance his brother Willie,
bur the cheerful and active co-operation of
You Charley. When Georgie is overstocked
(he needs room for his pigeons in the little
yard i he often dees a little trading with
less f< rtunate m> thers in the terravc—
especially on washing day. My landlady is
a willing customer of Charley's ■ n those
days. Our copper furnace swallows m< re
fuel with less r > It in warmth t" the wat-r
than any copper of my experience or
acquaintance, past or present. And so
Charley finds the wherewithal f r the bar-
tering of the fleet b longing to the snip-
smith's boys aforesaid: and :• r th - oh tore
sh w for himself and a few deserving pals.
Also. I take the longest bits of scantling,
etc., off Charley for the building of my
fuwlh us -s. and the making if bits of lat-
tice work for the flower garden. Thus
cometh it that You Charley and I am fast
friends, and I am und r hi- immediate and
powerful protection.' To wit. my fowls go
unst. ned by the Tattle Willies of the n igh-
borhc* d < there are two or three) : my deaf-
ness g «?th untake n-advantag?-of: and my
door un runaway-knocked at. In like wise,
my parrot. "Cocky.” whose services i which
mainly consist in screeching or else in silent.
■ -rsistent and surrepriri ns attempts :
ringliark the landlady's lalurcum tree* 1
could dispense with for ever, and who leaves
periodically in a t-weriug s t. is as :"u-n
brought hac-k. in a tearing temper and a
schoolboy's cap.
One of the greates: disadvantages • f deaf-
ness. and the cause of the 1> ss of the most
enjoyment and amus-m nt in this life. I
think, is the n t being able to hear • hil-
dren. unless directly addressed by such of
yeinr young friends as are acquainted wit'
your infirmity. Which reminds me that
when I was teaching a native sch -1 d -wn
in t e S nth Island Ms <riland> years s.g .
mv little brownies used to shout out man-
fully—and girl fully. They called a spade a
spade, th ugh: and 'ton. because of their
expressions—or after bstrning. with the face
of 14 judge;, to th-ir anecdotes of visits
from the Devil. and T ' r things—Td have
to slip behind the blackboard on some rre-
cnis-. :hide expr* n and ugh. Or
slin outside to splutter.
Thus Sarah Barnett i enrolled name*
i cildly semaphoring :
"Please Mister igaspl. Mister Lawrence!
■ gasp) Charley Poharama called me a
• gasp, gasp i a Half Cask Piccaninny! ! !”
Sarah, by the way. was about three shades
darker than Charley.
It was Sarah, the "MUss" of the - :.
and Charley Poharama who. one morning,
had an excited argument < fiercely excited
on Sarah's part) as to whether the d- il
who came the night before and gave
Charter's mother a big fright and a bitten
leg —which incidentally led to Charley's elder
sister. Maria, being kept h me from ch • 1
was a plain devil or a sp tied -ne.
Charley held out for the sported devil all
the rime. I c> uidn't even ge: at the rights
of it that afternoon fr m Mrs. Poharama
herself —bnt then she hadn't uite rec . -red
vet. I did understand, h wever. from Id
Mrs. Pohar?-.a tor. ugh a grand-child inter-
preter. that the devil in question was neither
plai# nor spotted, but striped. So I pur-
sued my investigations no further. Besides,
our time was taken up just then —the old
lady's and mine. I mean —pouring brine
into big Maria Poharama and holding her
upside down. It took us all onr time. It
so emed that Maria, having been in deadly
bar all day of a second Visitation after
dark, and being startled by the teacher's
unexpected entrance, grabbed a bottle and
swallowed about half a pint of sheep-dip in
mistake for the holy water.
Bnt back, through the years, to Blue's
Point-road. The little girls of Kid Terrace
are pirates, and. without the assistance of
speech, or any sign intelligible to outsiders,
they manage to leave me penniless when-
ever I heave in sight with any loose cop-
pers on me. How they know. I don't know.
There are two little chaps who pick me up
at a corner some mornings and walk with
me down to the ferry—one on each side.
We walk in silem-e for the m> st part, for
conversation is difficult on account >f the
great difference in .<ur lengths. They're
the s >ns of the shipsmith, in fact. But. n<*w
and then, they send up to me shrill little
bits .-if local and topical information, which
I find wonderfully correct, concise, ai d
always useful —good material for “copy.”
They only expect sixpence occasionally.
Another, an unattached pirate, who only
departs after extracting a promise of a
''tray bit" for nothing, next time: is always
virtuously indignant if "that there present
yer promised me'' isn't forthcoming when
Eext time comes.
There has been some slight friction
between me and Stinker, too. bnt that's all
past and gone. It was only a temporary
misunderstanding anyhow, arising out of a
well-meant mistaken idea of mine. Stinker
set me right. You see. I used to hail him
as "Percy" when I wished to have my
ignorance enlightened as to -ome recent
accident >r happening on the Road or the
Ferry. I'd heard his mother call him that.
I -iipp. se someone had been Percying him —-
from safe ground— at my expense. They're
excellent mimics. At last he stuck me up.
and. in spite of past favors, he exploded:
“Voir look here! Mister —Mister —Deaf on !
No erfence —bur don't yer go callin' me
Percy no more! Spesherly when Filers is
round. Blow Percy I My name ain't
Percy! iD'y* 'ear!) At least n t ..utside
—er bloke can be called anything his people
at home. He's g tter. But nor out-
side. My name's Stinker! (pause). Not
because I stinks, y* undersranV he added.
- ft ning. "bur it's the name the fellers giv
me. I won't be Percyed outside me own
home."
I apologised and promised not to do it
aeain. and since then the relatiers 1 tween
S-inker ard mys-lf have not en strain d-
Ho is S- r *~ - r to me. and I am Mr. Law-
rence tr him.
HENRY LAWSON.
The Well-appointed Jug.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Picrures :: aerresso: ire among the "borne em-
ron#” allowed in pris :;.er~' ceils ai ihe tree-plain n;
camp at Hunwr. This was remarked upon hr Dr.
C'XiiToe at tie sitting of the Forestry Coamis-ioB
yesterday, in terms of appretal. rather than other-
wise : and he asked whether there was any reason
why this indulgence was allowed at Haciner and
not at any of the other places.
—Ckeerfol item from MaorHamd.
ALONG the corridors the gong's soft
droning
Warned all 'rwas time to dine;
The pris- nets f« r social sins atoning
Str- lltd in a languid line.
Like well-groomed clubmen, towards the
wine and flowers.
The silver and the fruits.
The veiled eleetri. s :*n small, gilded t*wors
They strolled in dinner suits.
They talked, their voices nicely m-dulaied.
Of g. If and p. lilies :
The topics that they L atedly debated
Were caddies, gre.ns and sticks.
Mute ward-i-stewards r und the tables
skimming
Wafted away the scraps.
And with wrapped bottles kept the glasses
brimming
By doing endless laps.
They r-.se at last to have cigars and coffee
Out 'midst the ferns and palms.
I This move is only possible wh re "t ffy”
Sum undings sptead o-.«l harms, i
S me watchful warders at the Last came
flying.
While others raced f« r trays.
And ran with coffee to the inma:-s lying
Wrapped in a scented Laze.
And presently, above the pleasant chatter.
The s and of Cutts and wrings
Came stealing, all their jarring th- tights to
scatter.
On Melody's soft wings.
An n a grieving tenor's eared charmed them
To and blue smoke:
They drank the notes —his perfect art un-
armed them:
They sighed at his last h ke.
So passed the night with perfect song and
story.
And comforts of the best.
Till they broke up to seek their donnit* ry
And take a good night's rest.
Bnt in each bed-cell, decked with manv a
treasure.
And shaded reading lights.
Each patient looked with gratitude and
pleasure
On his stage favorites.
In rights and srtangles and revealing h-> ;
They smiled upon the wall.
Exhibiting their teeth, and curves, and
trusses.
And blushing n t at all.
And he who'd s: i n : im r-s> s me 1-autv
Sighed happily. "My dear.
I loved you wisely! Had I loved cold Dutv.
I would not now be here!'*
5.<.W.
KODAK.


WESTINGHOUSE
(MORSE) CHAIN DRIVES
.
wm
WSUm
.
y
For heavy machine tool
WORK, and for every type
of high-speed power trans-
mission, WESTINGHOUSE (Morse
CHAIN DRIVES are pre-eminent
because of their patented feature,
The Rocker Joint,
which eliminates sliding friction
at the joint and the consequent
loss of power.
Full Particulars from
The Westinghouse Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Queensland Agents—Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
New Zealand Agents— Philips & Pike, Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES. „
OUR NEW CATALOGUE OF
ENGINEERS’ SUPPLIES
afyd REQUISITES -
IS NOW READY.
POST FREE ON APPLICATION TO
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Use WELSBACH MANTLES
m
#*v;
m
&A
:
for EVERY KIND OF LIGHT
Our Illustration shows a new type
of Soft or Collapsible Inverted
Mantle, which entirely overcomes
transit and initial installation
breakage. Write for particulars.
WELSBAGH LIGHT CO. LTD. OF AUSTRALASIA
302 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
380 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne. Creek Street, Brisbane. 102-4 Victoria Street, Wellington, H Z
CUTS
on
HORSES
FLINT’S MEDICATED OIL
Is without doubt the most surprisingly prompt cure for Saddle Calls, Cuts,
Fistula or Broken Knees on horses. It possesses the rare merit of healing
without leaving any blemish, the hair growing in the natural colour. This
distinguishes Flint's Oil from every other preparation. Price 35., from most
stores throughout Australia, and procurable through any wholesale house
such as Elliott Bros., Sydney and Brisbane, or from
C. B. FLINT. Manufacturing Chemist, ADELAIDE.
THE LONE HAND
A Monthly Guide for everything
Australian.
6d
fg
hgf
write for full particulars to 340 Kent St., Sydney. Equitable Buildings, Melbourne.
YOU ARE ASKING FOR IT.
&
fL
Your head aches, your back aches, you feel all dull and dumpy,
And everything goes wrong-with you at morning, noon and night-.
Your step lags, your brain tags, you grourl because you're grumpy
But if you aiorit take ,
BEECNAMS pills
of course it serves you right.
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
. . . AT . . .
THE BANKING HOUSE, 228 Pitt Street,
Opposite PALACE THEATRE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LENDS MONEY ON ALL SECURITIES, including Furniture,
FROM 10 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
FRED. McWiLUAM, Manager
Sawmillers, Joiners and Cabinet Makers
You all require Economical, High-speed
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Ask us for Catalogues.
Ask us for References.
Ask us for Advice.
Ask us for Prices.
You will find that—Our Machines give you satisfaction.
You will find that—We hold the largest stock in Australia.
You will find that—Our expert advice is to your benefit.
You will find that—Our Prices as MANUFACTURERS are reasonable.
WE SAVE YOU MONEY.
Write, call or ’phone ; we are always ready for you to discuss our machines.
THE PREMIER SAWMILL & WOODWORKING MACHINERY MANUFACTURERS,
KIRCHNER & CO.,
32 Market St.,
IE:
Put your Machinery Problem
before the Goodall Expert.
Men directly in charge of work are often too near to see its problems in
direct proportion. A near-by hummock will obscure a whole mountain range.
- Tim point of a lead pencil held at arm’s length will cover the aeroplane four
thousand feet in the air.
Get an outsider’s point of view. Consult our machine-tool expert on speed
problems. His experience is at your service, and it puts you under no obliga-
tion to buy. Anyway, you’ll be interested in the facts he can give
regarding High-Speed Machine Tools and their application to modern needs.
LATHES,
DRILLING MACHINES,
PUNCHING AND SHEARING MACHINES,
MILLING MACHINES,
RADIAL DRILLING MACHINES,
HACK-SAW MACHINES,
SHAPING MACHINES,
BLOWERS AND POWER HAMMERS,
AND ALL ENGINEERING ACCESSORIES.
CASH
■
or
TERMS.
T. M. GOOD ALL & CO. LTD.
Universal Machinery Merchants,
303-5 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephones: City 6427-8.


ARCHITECTS speedy
Mack Partitions
and have a Fire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MACK LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
ELECTRIC RADIATORS
'I wo, Three and Four Lamps.
Costing fd. to per Hour.
ODORLESS SAFE—DURABLE. All Patterns Quickly Supplied.
OF AUSTRALIA Ltd,
MELBOURNE : 33 William Sr.
’Phorte— City 51 17.
SYDNEY: Wynyard Lane.
’Phene—City 3520.
BRISBANE: Roma St.
’Phone—Cent. 3676,
DICK’S PATENT
BELTING.
THE ORIGINAL AND
GENUINE BALATA.
TRADt
ear
MARK
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a sruard against inferior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
Importers: James Hardie & Co.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
THE
HE
MACHINES
& CO LTD
“TANGYB”
Portable Oil Engine.
Above illustration shows an up-to-date *’OANE” Milking Plant,
driven by a “TANGYE ” Oil Engine.
Dalgety’s Machinery Department.
Miller's Point, SYDNEY
and AH Branches .
AGENTS FOR-
“TANGYE”
Oil and Benzine Engines, Suction Gas
Plants, Steam Engines, Vertical
Boilers, Irrigation Plants and
PUMPS of all descriptions.
“ CLAYTON & SHUTTLEWORTH "
Portable, Steam and Traction Engines,
“NICHOLSON & MORROW
Harvesters, Drills, Cultivators, Ploughs.
"GANE” milking machines.
with Patent Automatic
Milk RMeaser.
mean Tool
High D
L
m
Planers and
Shapers.
We have a stock of these machines
opened up in our Showrooms and
invite inspection. These are modern
machines of the best quality, and if
there is -anywhere that quality counts
it is in a machine. If you cannot
favor us with a visit of inspection,
write us for our Accuracy Bulletin.
We are the Agents for, and have in
stock, CONSTANT DRIVE UNI-
VERSAL MILWAUKEE MILLING
MACHINES. Let us show you these,
or write us for Catalogue and Prices.
P. GREG
Engineers and
Machinery Merchants,
h
in
Automatic Electric
Lighting Plants
solve the
PROBLEM
of
ELECTRIC
Light Installation
Country Houses.
M
n
TO
Semi Diesel Engines.
CHEAPEST TO BOY,
CHEAPEST TO RON.
The IDEAL
ENGINE
the
flan oh the Land.
KENT ST., SYDNEY.
b
fgh
An installation of the “Lister’ 5 in your
shed means a realisation of the highest pos-
sible maximum in shearing efficiency.
All parts guaranteed interchangeable with
the Wolseley.
In duplicates “Lister” are representative
of highest superiority and durability.
Sole Agents,- DANGAR GEDYE & Co, SYDNEY.
fg
SUNSHINE ENGINES
for driving Chaffcutters, Saw Benches, Pumps, Dynamos, Graders, Hoists, Mortar Mills, etc.
Hi V m MeKAY, Sunshine, Vie . Adelaide Brisbane Sydney Melbourne .
M
if
1
4
WJ
FAIRBANKS-MORSE VERTICAL
Geared Kerosene Hoisting Engine.
The main parts of the engine are enclosed in a dustproof crank case. This keeps them free
from dust and grit, and protects them from undue wear. Inside the crank case is a bath of
lubricating oil. The main parts are in this way self-lubricating.
Consumption of Kerosene, about one-eighth of a gallon per H.P. per hour.
STOCK HELD BY AGENTS:
N. CUTHRIDCE LTD., Sydney & Melbourne
