

dfsdfsdfsdfsdf
R. G. WATKINS «&& CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 !K.eilt Street, Sydney,
Mining' and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisite* ,
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
The Shopkeeper Needing Financial Aid
will exercise sound judgment by procuring the necessary loan from this Company—whose reputation for
fair dealing stands as sponsor for straightforward and business-like treatment. Small or iai»e loans
any reasonable security. LOWEST INTEREST IN AUSTRALIA!
i. Ltd.,
Head Office: 74 Castiereagh St. 74, Sydney.
Opposite National Amphitheatre.
fsd
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215=217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
€
Doctors Recommend
GILBEY’S DRY GIN
OBiLBtX.
■: S' l: ~
(jadley s Orient jiotel.
PIONEEO
LEATHER BELTING •■•V.
Quarantkkd
d. C. Ludowici <& Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
\
Take
I must
HUTTON
PmcApplc Brand
t
CHUBB’S
C* I D SET
r me.
RESISTING
for preparing a variety 'of the most
dainty Desserts with
irEEfcmia
f
sdf
will be forwarded, Post Free to Any
Address, on application to
T. 8., Box 577, C.P.0., Sydney.
PALMER CORD
TYRES
are specially constructed to ensure Long Service.
ILVERTOWN RUBBER CO.,
—MELBOURNE—NEWCASTLE
sd
r
p
i
Royal
Dutch
COCOA.
SUPERIOR
IN
EVERY WAY*
£
n
Sugg'est “ MALTHOID ”
to Your Architect
Practically every architect is seized of the value of Malthoid—both
asbestos=coa:ed and plain—and your architect would be glad of an ex-
pression of preference by you ; Malthoid lends itself to artistic planning.
The PARAFFINE PAINT CO.,
(Man if usurers oi
'vivilWUD),
Challis House, SY
fsd
fsd
f
sdf
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
B.L
GOLD LABEL
EXTRA
SPECIAL
WHITE LABEL s .v.o
DAVEY PAXMAN
STEAM ENGINES
Portable, Stationary, Traction.
Kg
A solid, honest British job. Recognised by
engineers as being the product of one of the fore-
most firms in the world specialising in this class
of machinery.
Ample firebox, substantial mounting, first class
throughout. Hundreds in use in Australia.
All sizes. Catalogue “OF” is what you want.
Write for it.
sd
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
352 KENT
(near King Street)
TREET,
iYDNEY.
□ DON SPA
HELIDON SPA is the only Australian Mineral
Water with Genuine Osmotic Properties.
STARKEYS LTD «, Agents,
Phillip St., Sydney, and Redfern
The Bulletin
V01.34— N0. 1733.]
[Thursday, May 1, 1913.
Registered at tie General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW TECHNICAL BOOKS.
(Postages are shown in
parentheses,)
...
Engineering .of Shops and Factories, by H. G. Tyrrell,
(’oal: its Composition, Analysis, lti 1 sat ion and
Valuation, l>v E. E. Soniernieier. .10/6. (3d.)
Reinforced Concrete, edited by Bernard E. Jones,
18/- (Bd.)
Refractories and Furnaces: Properties, Preparation
aini A indication of Materials, used in the Construc-
tion ami Operation of Furnaces, hv F. T. Harvard
21/- (4d.)
Kpittpe’s Epgineer’s Year Hook for l!)13, 12/6 (6<L)
"Write for lasts of Books on any subject.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PTY., LTD., 238 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Hudson’s
fsd
SECURES SOUND
WH.TE TEETH.
imi
recommend powder, as best for, the Teeth.
Sold by al I Chemists in our patent stopper metal bottles, handy for
travel or home, price 1/6, forwarded free on receipt of stamps.
Hudson’s Eumenthol Chemical Co. Ltd- 19 York st., Sydney.
Forwarded Free, our New Book containing valuable inlormatioi
11 regarding the Teeth.
[How to" Use rue powoehT
CSC
Navvy Songs
Played Out.
The Red Page
As a bullock falls in the crooked ruts, he fell
when the day was o’er,
The hunger gripping his stinted guts, his
body shaken and sore.
They pulled it out of the ditch in the dark,
as a, brute is pulled from its lair,
The corpse of a navvy, stiff and stark, with
the clay on its face and. hair.
In Christian lands, with calloused hands, he
labored for others’ good.
In workshop and mill, ditchway and drill,
earnest, eager and rude;
Unhappy and gaunt with worry and want, a
food to the whims of fate,
Hashing it out and booted about at the will
of the goodly and great.
To him was applied the scorpion lash, for
him the gibe and the goad —
The roughcast fool of our moral wash, the
rugous wretch of the road.
Willing to craiol for a pittance small to the
swine of the tinsel sty.
Beggared and burst from, the very first, he
chooses the ditch to die —
Go, pick the dead from the sloughy bed, and
hide him from mortal eye.
He tramped through the colorless winter
land, or sunned in the scorching heat,
The dry skin hacked on his sapless hands, or
blistering on his feet;
He ical lowed in mire unseen, unknown.
where your houses of pleasure rise.
And hapless, hungry, and chilled to the bone,
he builded the edifice.
In cheerless model and filthy pub his sinful
hours were passed.
Or footsore , weary, he begged his grub, in
the sough of the hail-whipped blast,
So some might riot in wealth and ease, with
food and wine be crammed.
He wrought like a mule, in muck to the
knees, dirty, dissolute, damned.
Arrogant, adipose, you sit in the homes he
builded high;
Dirty the ditch, in the depths of it he chooses
a spot to die.
Foaming with nicotine-tainted lips, holding
his aching breast,
Dropping down like a cow that slips, smitten
with rinderpest;
Drivelling yet of the work and the wet,
swearing as sinners swear.
Raving the rule of the gambling school, mix-
ing it up with a prayer.
He lived like a brute, as the navvies live,
and went as the cattle go.
No one to sorrow, and no one to shrive, for
Heaven ordained it so —
He handed his check to the shadow in black,
and went to the misty lands,
Never a mortal to close his eyes or a woman
to cross his hands.
As a bullock falls in the rugged ruts
He fell when the day was o’er.
Hunger gripping Iris weasened guts,
But never to hunger more —
They pulled it out of the ditch in the dark.,
The chilling frost on its hair.
The mole-skinned navvy, stiff and stark,
From no particular where.
The Navvy Chorus.
’Twas in the beginning of ages,
To the make of the navvy there came
Work and the lowest of wages
Ever a mortal could claim,
Bread, with its age for leaven,
Rows, and the prison cell,
Few of the gifts of Heaven,
And most of the vices of Hell,
Time, and dislike to do it.
Love, for the wine when red.
And a bibulous leaning to it
Despite what the sages said.
And the demons took in hand
Moleskin, leather and clay,
Oaths embryonic and
A longing for Saturday,
Kneesirups and blood and flesh,
A chest exceedingly stout,
.1 soul —(which is a ques-
tion open to many a doubt)—
And fashioned with pick and shovel,
And shapened in mire and mud,
With life of the road and. hovel,
And death of the line or hod,
With fury and frenzy, and fear,
That his strength might endure for a
span
From birth, through beer to bier.
The link ’twixt the ape and the man.
They gave him a will to strive.
And earn the pittance which
Can barely keep him alive,
To slave in the dirty ditch —
Poor ho use and prison they wrought,
Bo he might enter therein
When idleness fell to his lot
Or poverty led to sin.
They have given him transient joys.
They have given him space for delight,
The model, its riot and noise.
The night, and the fleas of the night,
The jeer of the better-dressed neighbor,
And curses to every breath.
Labor, and dodging of labor.
Foreknowledge of sudden death —
Foredoomed to go to the Devil,
He carries a swearing gift.
His life is a path of evil
Between a shift and a shift.
The Navvy.
Remote from mansign and from mart.
Beyond our outer, furrowed fields —
One with the rock he cleaves apart.
One with the weary pick he wields.
Bowed with his weight of discontent,
Beneath the heavens sagging grey.
ITis steaming shoulders stark and bent,
He drags his joyless years away.
For dreamy dames with haughty eves.
And cunning men with soft white hands
Tim e offered you in sacrifice
Lone outcast of the outcast lands.
For all tiie furs that keep them mar.::,
For all the food that keeps them, fit.
Through all the pears they’re wrought you
harm.
And take a churlish pride in it.
Brutish we're hashed it far and near,
I’ve shared your woe and dull despair;
We’ve sung our songs and none to hear,
And told our wrongs and none to care.
Some day—how soon we may not tell —•
We’ll rend the riven fetters free.
Till then, may Heaven guard you well,
And God he good to you—and me.
From “Songs of the Dead End,” by
Patrick Mac Gill.
Patrick Mac Gill, the author of Songs of
the Head End (Year Book Press, London),
was born in Ireland 21 years ago. When 12
years old he had to become a farm hand, his
working day the year through being from
5 a.m. to 13 p.m. At 14 he crossed to *
Scotland, and for several years he was either
farm hand, drainer, tramp, navvy, platelayer,
or wrestler. At 1!) he published Gleanings
from a 'Savvy’s Scrap-Book, of which 8000
copies were sold. A London newspaper
appointed him to its editorial staff, but in
the following year he left his job and pub-
lished Songs of a Navvy. Both books being
now out of print, he has built from them,
with important additions, his present vol-
ume. Ilis portrait shows the picture of a
long-haired beauty actor.
As the spokesman of a class hitherto, in a
literary sense, inarticulate. Patrick Mac Gill
is Welcome. But it must be remembered in
criticism of his work that he represents the
voteless British navvy, and not the Aqs-
tralasian navvy, a member of a union, fully
seized of his rights and ready and able to
enforce them. Thus his savagery, his fierce
class hatred, his bitterness, his hopelessness,
are but the necessary tools of his trade. In
him the millions on the verge of starvation,
the mute victims of the soulless modern sys-
tem of capitalism, have found voice; and if
he shouts, it is only because nothing but the
false emphasis of a shout will attract atten-
tion in Britain to their wrongs. Here the
navvy has no necessity to yell. With this
qualification Mac Gill must be judged. With-
out it his work will be found forced and
turgid, yet its special quality of strength
will be felt. lie writes of what he has felt,
and bitterlv felt: and he writes with crude
craftsmanship. His wearmn i« not a pen,
but a viciously-swung pick. Mac Gill is a
specialised English Lawson :
These the Songs of a Savvy, hearing the
taint of the hrute,
Unasked, uncouth, unworthy, out to the
tcorld 1 put,
Stamped with the brand of labor, the heel of
a navvy’s hoot. . . .
The cold grub eaten in the dawn.
The wet shag smouldering as you smoke,
For ever being down and broke,
You learn to like it—later 0n....
You’ll likewise learn the useful rule,
The motto of the navvy man,
To do as little as you can.
And keep your pipe and stomach fu11....
Hashing it out like niggers on a two and a
tanner sub.
Everything sunk with your uncle, little to
burn at the pub,
Fifty-and-six were our hours, and never an
extra shift.
And whiles we were plunging at banker, and
whiles wc were studying thrift —
Sewing and patching the trousers, till their
parts were more than the whole.
Tailoring, cobbling and darning, grubbed on
a sausage and roll —
Thrift on a fourpenny hour, a matter of
nineteen bob,
But we glanced askew at the gaffer, and
stuck like glue to the job,
We of the soapless legion, we of the hammer
and hod,
Human swine of the muck-pile, forever for-
gotten of God. . . .
Have you tramped about in winter, whew
your boots were minus soles ?
Have you wandered sick and sorry with your
pockets full of — holes?
Have yon wondered which was better, when
your capita! was light,
A plate of fish and 'taters, or a hammock
for the night?
Have ”on sought through half the kingdom
for the job you could not get?
Have you eyed the city gutters for a stump
of cigarette?. . . .
These arc incidental worries which are
wrong to fuss about;
But, God! they matter greatly to the man
who’s down and out. .. .
They are tabid and outworn, unpresentable,
unshorn.
Occupants of many a model, wooers of the
harridan,
Workers of the wildernesses, dressing as the
savage dresses.
Crawling in the rear of progress, follow-
ing the march o' man....
The dirge of the loosened boulder,
And the thing that gasps beneath.
While the hod is yet on the shoulder,
The pipe is yet in the teeth.
Of the dynamite in the boring.
That didn’t go fiff when it should.
And the pica that ivent exploring,
And the pal who left for good—-
There is humor, too, in Patrick Mac Gill.
navvy-nioet. And he can tell a storv. in a
Bret Hartian way. But the chief fault in
these verses is the author’s obvious pose. lie
insists on being regarded as a navvv, not as
a Poet. Perhaps he is right; for lie has in-
cluded in this volume many pieces which
have no reference to the navvy, and in these
he shows that, lacking the vivid memories
of his experiences, he is capable oulv of
vapid and conventional verse.
Meips
E. A. Helps’ idea, as expounded in the
preface to Sungs and Ballads of Greater
Britain (Dent) : “We (in England) may
have written better poetry, they (the Greater
Britons) have lived it. Their poetry has a
Charm of its own, due to its freshness, orig-
inality, virility and variety of subject....l
determined to omit poetry of the passions
as being outside the aims and scope of this
selection. For the same reason I omit poetry
of a sacred or devotional character. I have,
however, brought together much patriotic,
legendary and historical verse, as well as
descriptive lyrics and ballads, and poems of
the imagination. . . .Nor can I claim to com-
pleteness (unfortunately in the cases of a
few writers in Australia and S. Africa I
have been unable to obtain permission) ;
doubtless, also, good work has escaped my
notice....As regards some of the poetry in-
cluded, it cannot be said to be of the highest
order. .. .That there should be some short-
comings is not a matter for surprise.... In
Australia, until comparatively recently, the
conditions of life of .her people have, been
unfavorable to reflection and literary expres-
sion.... There is abundant evidence of the
influence of Wordsworth, Shelley, Longfel-
low, Mrs. Hemans and Kipling, whose influ-
ence has appealed perhaps rather too strongly
to the virile minds of those engaged in strug-
gling with the forces of nature or man....
The reader must no( look for any highly
finished productions of the boudoir type
The Canadian poets, a maturer people, with
great variety and spaciousness in their sur-
roundings, naturally strike more strings, and
some with greater sureness than the other
Dominions. . . .It seems there are few women
among the poets of Australia, or else I have
not been fortunate in discovering them.” E.
A. Helps, who was formerly one of “lI.M.
inspectors of schools” in England, is right.
The contents of Songs and Ballads of Greater
Britain prove that we can live poetry better
than we can write it. He is right in not
claiming completeness, neither O’Dowd,
McCrae of Quinn is included, and good work
has, as he expects, escaped his notice, though
his net has been wide enough to sweep in
Dugald Ferguson, ,T. Liddell Kelly, Alex-
ander Bathgate, John Christie, Arthur
Patchett Martin, A. R. Wills and Garnet
Walsh. Helps is also right in stating that
some of the poetry included cannot be said
to be of the highest order. That there should
be some shortcomings is not a matter for
surprise, considering the lack of critical judg-
ment shown hv Helps in his selection. And
there is abundant evidence of the influence
of Mrs. Hemans in the verses chosen by
E. A. Helps, ex-inspector of H.M. schools.
And. according to the contents-list in this
compilation, there are few women,among the
poets of Australia. Helps is right; he has
not been fortunate in discovering them.
1
The Secret of the Pacific
0. Reginald EnoCk lias tackled a large
and lumpy problem in The Secret of the
Pacific (Unwin, per Dymock’s Library) ;
but though he has toted the bulky thing a
few thousand miles he has not succeeded in
discovering the nature of the merchandise
on his back. His hook is a discussion of the
origin of the early civilisation of America, the
Toltecs, Aztecs. Mayas, Incas, etc., and the
race or races buried beneath these peoples,
and of the origin of man in the two Ameri-
cas. Man either just happened or he arrived.
If he arrived, the probability is that be came
from Asia, across the then existing land-bridge
of Behring Strait. But Knock declines to
decide this important point, as indeed he
declines to decide other important points.
His method is to describe the marvellous
remains of that immense and widely scat-
tered civilisation in pre-Columbus America
—the territory on which ruins have been
found extends for 5000 miles —then to quote
authorities on both sides and leave the
matter balancing on its fence. But he does
make clear some salieut points. For in-
stance, while this pre-historic civilisation
covered not only an immense area, hut
extended throughout the Pacific, ancient
civilisation in the Old World was.
geographically, comparatively a suburban
matter. From the Euphrates to the
Nile, or from Chaldea to Egypt, is
only 1000 miles, and the country be-
tween offered facilities for intercourse
such as were entirely lacking among the
rugged, mountain chains and in fhe inclem-
ent regions of the barren western coasts of
the two Americas. And the numerous illus-
trations make plain what a marvellous civil-
isation that of pre-historic America was.
The ruins are grandiose; but it is the pot-
tery that give us astonishingly vivid and
personal portraits of the actual people; And
these laughing, grimacing character studies,
these stern, forceful physiognomies, have a
remarkable modernity. Well, they’re all
dead now, and without serving any purpose
in the evolution of mankind.
There is something almost pathetic in-
volved in a contemplation of the praise-
worthy arts and civilisations of prehistoric
America. They were cut off at a blow in
the mere act of discovery, ravished wanton v
and unnecessarily by Kith-century Enron/
and they seeni to have formed no link in th
march of human progress which intelligent
man bids himself to think is the destiny r f
the world. They were utterly swept aside
and became mere shells of ruins, scattered
monoliths and other fragments. The ner
ished civilisations of Asia and Africa were
at least links in a chain which reached in
ever-growing importance to the world of to-
day, but prehistoric America set no seal on
time, influenced no act on posterity, added
nothing to the plan of mankind. Yet we mav
reflect that the mbnuments of these ancient
isolated American peoples have survived by
virtue of their good qualities of solidity and
conscientiousness in construction. At least
we know that they were in the main the
perpetuation in stone of a religious purpose
and we must concede to their industrious
builders the lofty sentiment of a desire to
create and bequeath something which should
endure long after they themselves had passed
away.
But this civilisation spread itself beyond
America; it dotted % all the islands of the
Pacific with monoliths. Prof. Macmillan
Brown, of M.L. r has put forth a theory that
these monoliths were but the mile-stones of
the slow advance of a Caucasian prehistoric
and neolithic race from Europe, coming by
way of the Malay Peninsula to America-
and this theory, nowhere mentioned by
Knock, who seems strangely not to have
heard of Macmillan Brown, seems at least
a useful working hypothesis, with much evi-
dence to buttress it. Both Macmillan Brown
and Knock postulate, on good geological
grounds, the existence in prehistoric ages of
a great Pacific continent, another submerged
Atlantis, of which the islands of the Pacific
are but the peaks of its mountain ranges, and
the atolls but coral pillars erected on peaks
completely submerged.
If so, then the giant statues on Easter
Island and elsewhere throughout the Pacific
are the last vestiges of neolithic life on that
tremendous drowned continent.
The value of The Secret o* the Pacific lies
in the statement that there is a secret, and
the suggestion to archeologists that this
secret is more worth solving, and promises
more romance, than that of the beginnings
of civilisation in Asia.
Alleged Australian Literary Shrines
“Kola”: Will you allow. me to suggest
Casterton (Vic.) as a literary shrine? This
little village, on the Glenelg, has produced
Mary Gilmore, Donald Maclean and Grant
1 lorvey. None of these is perhaps entitled
to a top-notch ; but, taken together, they fur-
nish a respectable amount of literature, most
of it of the good Australian variety. I
cannot say if there are houses identified with
any or all of the three I have mentioned,
but there is sure to be one. Near at hand is
Coleraine, made immortal by Buvelot’s beau-
tiful picture —"A Waterhole at Coleraine.”
This is hardly literary, but it is art; and,
anyway, the pool is well worth a visit.
Buvelot was very partial to his picture of
(his pool, and painted replicas of it. One is
in the Warrnambool Art Gallery. By the
way, Maclean threatens, when he lias leisure,
to produce a really good Australian novel.
He complains that his published books were
written under disadvantages, and do not do
him justice. I hope not —I mean, I hope
they don’t do him justice.
“Luke Warm” : Apropos of literary shrines.
There is a little-known spot which, though
not exactly a shrine, is associated with the
name of one of our greatest poets. I refer
to Kendall’s Falls, four or five miles out of
Gosford, though they can be reached more
easily from Point Clare. The falls take their
name from Kendall’s rock, on which the
poet carved his name. Local rumor has it
that Kendall did much of his work in this
beautiful spot.
John D. Fitzgerald writes: —
Re Becke’s short account of his literary career, 1
desire to say that his recollection was not strictly
accurate in regard to this statement: “The editor
of The Bulletin sent copies of the book (‘ By Beef
and Palin’) to Harry Massinghanr, editor of the
London Daily Chronicle, who offered the collection
to Fisher Unwin.” The true version is that Mr.
Archibald wrote to me and asked line if I could do
anything to assist Becke to get a publisher (I had
just returned from London). I suggested that
proofs of the stories should be prepared, and sent to
my friend Mr. Massingham (who was quite unknown
to Mr. Archibald), with a covering letter from me
introducing Mr. Becke’s work. This was done.
(Becke’s letter thanking me enclosed herewith.) In
due course, I received a note from Mr. Massingham
saying: “1 read your friend Becke’s stories through
at one sitting, called a cal), and drove right rounu
to Fislier Unwin with the proofs. He read them.,
and will make Mr. Becke an offer in due course.
The result of this transaction was the beginning ot
the connection of Becke with Unwin, Jor a
time a most unsatisfactory one from Becke s point
of view. So long as Becke. remained in Australia
he was practically at the mercy of not oyer-generou.
London publishers, but, on his own showing, beg
a good deal from them when he was on the spot,
fact, when he got to London, in 1896, he was rat
nestered by publishers or their agents, all anx .
to buy his goods.; and in 1897, when 1 saw
again in London, he had “arrived” complete!',
was quite in the swim of literary and clu >


f
sdfsdfsdfsd
Anthony Horderns’ for the Winter Fashions
t£>-
i
I
SK.
ex
ex
145 6
No. 1456.—Useful and Stylish Coat, of Soft All-wool
Cheviot Serrge, in Black only, straight, full-cut back, single fronts,
revers finished Black Moire and Russia Braid 21/6
No. 15. Stylish, Full-length Coat, perfectly Tailored, in
Warm Cheviot Blanket Tweed. Illustration shows new-shaped back,
with small sketch of front, which is double-breasted, and finished
large revers of self 28/6
No. 2773. —Smart, Full-length Ulster, perfectly Tailored
from Wide Diagonal Weave Navy Blanket Cheviot, straight-cut
back, with shaped lapped seam, panel effect. Sailor Collar, revers
and cuffs, relieved with pipings of Saxe Blue Cloth and Saxe
Stitchings, with buttons to match. Exceptional value... 22/6
1
-0
■A
...
9M
4 27
No. 902.—Fashionable Coat and Skirt Costumes of
Donegal Tweed. Coat has shaped sections at back and sides, self
collar and revers, all finished narrow pipings of Black Satin.
Shaped Skirt with lapped seams and Tailor Buttons 35/-
No. 427. Coat and Skirt Costume, of Fancy Cheviot Serge,
in Black or Navy; two-piece Skirt, buttoning from waist to hem
with Buttons to match 42/-
No. 964. —Smartly Tailored Coat and Skirt Costume,
of fine Navy Coating Serge, and lined Black Twill Silkette. Skirt
is new three-piece shape. Also in Black 39/6
No. 9035. —Attractive Coat and Skirt Costume, of fine
all-wool Coating Serge, in Black or Navy, Coat Collar and self
revers relieved Silk Military Braid, turn-back cuffs trimmed to
match; plain, well-cut six-piece Skirt 39/6
Imo. 1339.—80y5’ Galatea Suits, in light and
dark shades, suitable for boys from 3 to 5 years.
Price hanging from 5/6, 5/11, 6/6, 6/11
No. 214 x 854.—Child’s White Jap. Silk
Costumette; a dainty frock, prettily trimmed
with lace insertion. Suitable for girls from 2 to 5
years. Prices 17/6, 17/11, 18/6
SEND for ANTHONY HORDERNS’
WINTER FASHION PORTFOLIO,
post free on request. It reflects
in every particular the prevailing
modes, and illustrates the
Season’s Novelties, including many
smart and serviceable Costumes and
Coats and the latest styles in Millinery.
fsdfsd
No. 1471.—Girls’ Frock for School and
Home Wear, smartly cut in Amazon Cloth,
also Tweed Mixtures, rounded yoke of fine Irish
Guipure Lace, daintily piped, finished button effect.
Colors: Vieux Rose, Grey, Saxe and Brown. Suit-
able for girls from Bto 13 years. Prices ranging
from
11/6, 11/9, 12/11, 136, 14/6, 14/11
No. 1026 x 5166.—Child’s Paletot, in diag-
onal Serge, sac back, split at side, with button
finish. Colors-: Navy, Golden-brown and Grey.
Suitable for child from 8 to 13 years. Prices:
12/6, 13/6, 14/6, 15/6, 16/6
QUORN.
No. 548.—This Smartly Designed Coat and Skirt Cos-
tume is well cut from fashionable rough Cheviot Serge, in Navy
or Black ; fronts of coat are slightly eased into high waist, which
is finished with patent leather belt. The loose collar and turn-back
cuffs are of Black Satin; the self revers edged Satin pipings. Well-
cut, plain, four-piece skirt. In S.W., W., out-sizes.... 21/9
The Quorn Fashionable Woollen Fleecy Golf Coat,
i-length, single fronts, collarless effect, patch pockets, in Saxe,
Amethyst, Mole, Cinnamon, Silver, Navy 12/6
:>
a
N
B
2655
sl&d
No. 2591. —Smart Winter Coat of North of England
Cheviot Frieze, in soft shades of Bronze and Grey Heather,
with faint contrast stripes, well made with new straight back, large
sailor collar and patch pockets, finished with fancy gun-mteal
buttons 23 / 6
No. 2635.—Attractive, Full-length Navy Roush Serge
Ulster, well cut and finished, fashionable straight effect back,
deep round collar, and revers finished Black Silk Braid and
Buttons 17/9
No. 5184. —Stylish %-length Coat of Navy Melton
Cloth, has full straigtit back, single fronts, large self revers,
finished Black Silk Braid and Fancy Silk Buttons. May be had
also in Black 18/6
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Bricßneld Hill,
.SYDNEY, N.S.W.


Do You Odolise P
Odol, the World’s Dentifrice, is the
preparation to use, for a few drops mixed
with a tumbler of water make an emulsion
which will thoroughly cleanse and purify
the oral cavity, destroying all injurious
bacteria.
It is the rinsing of the mouth and
the brushing of the teeth with this anti-
septic and delightfully refreshing mixture
that constitutes the process now known
as Odolising.
Odol penetrates the interstices in and
between the teeth and permeates the
gums and mucous membrane of the
mouth, exerting its marvellous powers
not only during the few moments while
using it, but for hours afterwards.
m
\
Tp
-
Business. Robbery, etc.
An illustration of the gambling done in overdue
ships is afforded by the big tramp steamer, Natal
Transport. The vessel left Newcastle (N.S.W.) for
Ocean Island on February 2, to load phosphates for
Borneo, and, on the way bad,, was to return to New-
castle for coal. Not showing up about April 7, it
gradually became more and more overdue, till it
was something like the long-missing Ark (Noah
Arkbottom, master and owner). The usual gambling
at Lloyd’s began. The rate kept rising, until, on
April 21, a cable arrived, stating that the re-insur-
ance rate had reached 1)0 guineas per cent. That is
to say, the brokers backed the ship at five to two to
turn up. Short odds in all conscience. The same
morning another wire reached Sydney to announce
the arrival of the Natal Transport at Borneo. Either
by a misunderstanding of his orddrs, or from some
subsequent cause, the skipper proceeed to Borneo
direct without returning to Newcastle. Anyhow, it
didn’t hurt him, and gave the gamblers at Lloyd’s a
chance to make a scoop. Also, of course, they had
a chance to lose a scoop.
* * * *
“Sand Groper”: Has “Gouger” (B. 17/4/’l3) any
money, or does he know of anyone who has, to
speculate in sandalwood ? If so, I will undertake to
provide 1000 tons or more, cut and sap-barked
ready for shipment, at £lO per ton f.o.b. The £25
per ton mentioned by him is a myth. The best sandal-
wood grown on this continent comes from the W.A.
goldfields, principally between Yilgarn and North
Coolgardie (the Transcontinental line will go through
thousands of acres of good wood, which may have
the effect of further reducing the value), and for
some years the price thereabouts has not been higher
than £8 per ton. Quite recently it was as low as
£5 10s. for prime wood at Fremantle. “Mallara-
poonie,” who was through the West last year and
out as far as Laverton, will probably have some-
thing to say on this subject, for at the time of his
visit cutters were unable to earn tucker, the price
being so low and the freight to Fremantle so high
(£2 10s. per ton, plus ss. royalty). As for the
blacks bringing in wood, in the West the blacks are
just as likely to bring in hell in a paper-bag.
“Quarter Single”: There are two people in Mel-
bourne who would appreciate the attitude of Toddy,
in “Helen’s Babies.” Budge, Toddy’s brother, was
word-painting lavishly and at length the number of
presents he desired. Toddy declared for one simple
gift, remarking sententiousiy, “Don’t want to be bod-
dered wif yots of fings.” John Long, organiser of
the United Laborers’ Union, won a motor-car in the
St. Vincent’s Hospital raffle. Prior to that Pyrrhic
victory, says Long, ruefully, his wife could manage
on his salary. Now she has to struggle to pay for
the upkeep of the buzz-cart, which drinks petrol as
a wharfie drinks beer, wears out its tyres as swiftly
as a six-year-old his boots, and is in demand for
charity rides when its owner isn't using it. Long
is trying in vain to dispose of his juggernaut, and
is beginning to realise what the Northerner meant
when he said: “It would have been money in Jeff
Davis’s pocket if he had never been born.” The
other person who is suffering from excessive good
fortune is a Richmond woman, who won an allot-
ment of land at Laverton in a church rafHe. She is
unable to dispose of it, and- the charges for rates and
taxes are eating her out of house and home. In-
deed, the paddock may yet swallow the pantry, and
there is no longer any reliance to be placed on the
expression, “Dirt cheap.” When dirt is given away
it may be too dear for words.
“J.F.11.”: King George’s collection of Fiji stamps
has been on view here in London— the finest and most
complete in existence. Old Cannibal King Cakobau
had no use for stamps or post-offices, but the Fiji
Times wanted them, so it started a postal department
of its own. Its stamps were very crude; they were
printed with the Times’s own type on its own
premises at Levuka, and bore just three words —
“Fiji Times Express.” In the centre was the figure
or denomination —penny, threepenny, sixpenny or shil-
ling. They are now worth £lO. £l2, £l5 and £lB
respectively. In 1871 old Cakobau told the Fiji
Times people to shut up their stamp-shop and post-
office, as he had decided to go into the business him-
self, and, as they didn’t want to be converted into
“long pig,” they made haste to oblige. Cakobau had
his stamp engraved and electrotyped in Sydney. They
were headed “C.R.” (Cakobau Rex). After Hercules
Robinson, Governor of N.S.W., had added the group
to the British Empire, a V took the place of the C.
Far and awav the prettiest Fiji stamp is one designed
bv Leslie Walker, postmaster at Suva. It stows a
“pirogue” or native canoe steering towards the
rising sun.
* * * *
Thus R. M. Cochrane, from Perth, apropos -the
combinat’on among Australian master printers and
the “costing” system, the latter declared by “Quiz”
(B. 27/3/’l3) to be “the last possibility in the way
of exploitation”: The explanation of the costing
scale is as follows. A printing establishment is
liable to one thousand and one expenses which can-
not be directly charged to a customer. These are
rent, rates, taxes, insurance, depreciation of machin-
ery, buildings and stocks, clerical expenses, travel-
lers’ salaries and commissions, lighting, heating,
cleaning, power, telephones, postages, advertising, bad
debts, etc. When a printer is estimating on the scores
of small jobs which pass through his hands dailv, he
cannot all. day be adding on 1-S°nd of a penny for
insurance, l-64th for unavoidable spoils, a penny
for rent and a halfpenny for rates and taxes, and so
on. Instead of all this multitudinous estimating, a
book-keeping convention is adopted. It has been
found by experience that all these items, which can-
not be charged d'reet to a job, are about equal to
the wages paid in any one year. The printer, there-
fore, when estimating, doubles the estimated labor
cost, in order to arrive at an “omnibus rate,” which,
besides recovering the expenditure on wages, will auto-
matically recover the percentage of other expenditure
—rates, rent, taxes, etc., etc.-—which must be pro-
portioned to each particular job. This gives him
prime cost. He then adds his profit, which, in the
face of world-wide competition, must always be
reasonable. Since a penny or a twopenny stamp
will carry a client’s “copy” to any part of the
world where cheap printing may be had, and since
the tariff is of very little serv'ee, the truth is that
Che Australian printer is hard pressed to make a
living, while anvthing in the shane of extortion is
utterly impracticable. In the Freetrade port of
London, in direct competition with the cheap print-
ing “made in Germany,” an omnibus rate is charged,
which, allowing for the difference in wages, is higher
than our own. London charges Is. 9d. per hour on
an average wage of 9d., and even Germany cannot
materially undersell that rate. In Perth (W.A.)
the “omnibus” rate is 2s. 6d., wages being Is. 4d.,
as against 9d. in London. In this State there are
very few printers assessed to land and income tax,
and these only in small amounts. This is sufficient
proof that printing is not a profitable industry.
* * * *
Stanley Gibbons, pioneer of stamp shops in Lon-
don, died six weeks ago. He made a big fortune by
lucky finds. Thus, in 1879, he received a consign-
ment of twopenny “swans” from the postmaster at
Albany (Westralia). He put most of them by, and
lately traded them off at £2O a piece.
“Tripper” : “Trotter” (B. 20/3/’l3) brings me on
deck to support his objection to the demoralising
tipping system in a democratic community like Aus-
tralasia. Apart from its degrading influence on the
individual, it is a dangerous enemy to the wage-
earner, or will be if it gets a firm hold. Already
it has a settled place in the service of the shipping
cos. ; and in Maoriland, anyhow, it has been judi-
cially recognised by the Arbitration Court. For in-
stance, the stewards in the service of the big Union
Steam Ship Co. (and, no doubt, of the Huddart-Parker
Proprietary also) are paid £5 10s. per calendar
month, that, having been reckoned by the Court a
living wage when added to the tips paid direct by
the passenger to the steward. If the travellers do
not part up, the cos. would see the men boiled be-
fore they would pay over the difference between
£5 10s. and whatever is the recognised living wage.
The employee has then to go short; consequently, his
attitude i-n life is that of a worm, and the passenger
who looks as though he has the most money gets
the most worm-crawling. It’s a deplorable svstpm
for everybody but the cos. It pays them, otherwise
it would have been given the boot long ago.
“0.K.”: When the P.M.G. is making the talked-of
alteration in the red tint of the penny stamp of the
ghastly kangaroo series he may as well effect an im-
provement in the quality of the stamps. After all
the crudity of the design and poverty of the engrav-
ing offend only the assthetic sense of a community
that worries very little about it. But the cheapness
of the paper is a real grievance. The trouble with
a Commonwealth postage stamp is to prevent your-
self from tearing it at any part except the perfora-
tion. Considered as a piece of gummed paper its
name is sodden geological formation, or decayed
vegetable matter in a damp state. How comes it to
be so cheap and fragile? How much does a square
mile of kangaroo stamp cost the Government as com-
pared with the same area of stamp issued by a
State in the old days.
It doesn’t follow that the recent decision of Judge
Hollister, of the Federal Court, in the State of
Ohio, will be upheld on appeal; nevertheless, it is
worth while noting that his Honor, knowing that
heavy fines are ineffectual in such cases
cently, on conviction, handed the president
vice-president, directors and managers of a
cash register CO.-29 persons in all—terms
of imprisonment running from three months to one
year, for breaches of the Sherman antitrust law—
practically for organising an injurious monopoly Of
course, one can do a frightful lot of “appealing” in
the United States, but one can’t do so much in Aus
tralia, and there isn’t so much likelihood of an appeal
from a Supreme Court or a High Court judge being
upheld; so if the Australian anti-Trust law were
effective, and if then the managers of an Australian
combine were sentenced to imprisonment, there would
be more than an 'even chance of their going to gaol
And it isn’t much good bossing a monopoly that nets
you £lOO,OOO a year, when you have to go to Pent-
ridge or Yatala to “enjoy” it.
* * * *
A Melbourne black-and-white artist, who runs a
cozy bungalow in a southern suburb, tells a touch-
ing tale of a sad-eyed beggar-woman, who called at
his back door soliciting alms. She had two small
depressing infants in tow, and let off a hacking
“corf” every twentieth second. Could the “kind*
’ansum young gentleman ’elp a pore widder woman
what was bereaved of her ’usband, and left alone
with two orpings and a bed-rid mother?” The
artist was touched, and began to deliver the goods
He supplied bread and meat and tea; and another
’ackin’ corf brought up a shilling. The lone widder
moved off with her load, but got back in half a
minute with a further explosion of corfs and a deso-
late intimation that, if the nice, good, kind young
gentleman had a pair of cast-off trousers, they would
be received thankful. The artist raked up a pair
and handed them over. “But, look here, my good
woman,” he said, “if you have lost your husband
what do you want with trousers?” The beggar-ladv
brightened up a trifle. “Oh, these ain’t fer me
’usband,” she said ; “they’re for the gentleman I’m
keepin’ house for.”
* * * »
“Gent Too”: I have run against a new industry
The correspondence from erring wives or husbands
in Divorce cases has always appeared to me to be an in-
teresting exhibition of one-eyed folly. Lately, however,
the mystery of the foolishness was elucidated after i
had plied a sinister-looking individual with whisky
and questions. The gentleman explained by degrees
that he was an inducer. He confided that a well-
known legal firm put a little work in his way. His
business was to call upon one of the parties to an
unfortunate matrimonial alliance, and infbrm h m
(or her —her mostly) that the other half intended
taking minor legal proceedings, but that these could
be obviated if a letter were written admitting mis-
conduct and promising reformation, whereqpon in
all probability a re-union might be effected. If any
pressure was necessary he would lay stress upon the
unpleasantness of having private affairs published in
the press. There were no intended proceedings as a
rule, but nine times out of 10 the damning docu-
ment was forthcoming, and when the writer was con-
fronted with the writ —well, he (or she) daren't do
anything but damn the inducer.
* * * »
“Eryander” : Extract from letter just received from
friend attached to the big John Brown shipyard at
Clydebank (Scotland) : “I suppose you will have heard
by this time that we have gone one better than the
German Imnerator. Our new Cunarder measures just
the level 300yds.—well over one-sixth of a mile. I
can’t give you her exact gross till all the decks are
in, but I should put her at about 57,000 tons. Fancy
such a mass being hurled 20 knots an hour through
the water. . . .1 shall be glad when the riveting is
over. The noise is simply damnable, and many of
the men remain deaf for hours after knocking off. . . .
We’ve taken a hint from the Titanic horror, and
fitted this little skiff—Aquitania, she is to be called—
with strong bulkheads fore-and-aft, as well as thwart-
ships ....Thev’re talking about the Ist Feb. for the
launch, but I think we’ll be lucky if we get her into
the water by the middle of March.”
THE TYPEWRITER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Untiring brute! My energy you sap.
The days so blue.
The wasted seconds fly at every tap.
Oh! if you knew
The hatred hammered out on your cold keys,
The stifled love of sky and grass and trees!
Sad walls, so dull and drab, how many eyes
Have tired of you,
And longed in vain for turquoise-colored skies,
And dreamt of blue
As I am dreaming now. Dear blue, to me,
Through all the week you’re but a memory!
For I would be a vagabond, if so
I might be free
To live and roam where’er I chose to go
At liberty.
I curse these letters in a business vein ;
The neatly frozen products of the brain.
But I am purchased like a slave of old.
They chain me to
This ugly desk. A little piece of gold
Buys all I do,
While every moment of the young Spring day,
Love, winds and sunshine call me out to play.
N.S.W.
FREDA OLDMAN.
A GRAVE DEVELOPMENT
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In view of the general increase of wages, the trus-
tees of the two cemeteries in Geelong have decided to
increase the schedule of rates for burial. In some
instances charges have been raised as much as 50
per cent. —Neivs item.
The ancient on his final legs
Rose up and snorted hard,
And drivelled re “the good ole days,”
Ere Labor outed Lard.
The lower orders knew their place,
When he was young and hearty,
But now they asked a living wage!
He cursed the Labor Party!
“Scared Capital,” he said, “has gone,
And sought some foreign strand!
And, if we are not careful, Death
Will also flee this land!
This thing they call a ‘living wage,’
For which the mob’s been crying,
Is really what has brought about
The extra cost of dying!”
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


FLOW METER FACTS.
Steam cost 1/- per 1000 lb.
CASE I.
°0 AOO 400 300 400 500 600 700 <5OO 900 1000
Steam Output /n 80/ter Horse Power
f
Send for descriptive bulletin
No. 7676.
How General Electric Co., U.S.A., Boiler
Flow Meters increase the Efficiency of
your Boiler Plant.
Steam costs 11 id. per 1000 lb
With coal labor, etc., same as Case I.
CASE 11.
■J**cy }ndjng wojjg
oae oot 009 oof pop ooe oa? oo: 0
OS
OH
fioud/o/jjg
5—5000 H.P. Boilers in a battery delivering 2500 B.H.P. = 75,0001 b.
per hour.
Load UNEQUALLY divided because there is no means of determining
the steam output of each boiler.
Efficiency curve gives total battery efficiency as 69 %.
Steam cost, 1/- per 10001 b.
This condition of unequal division of load between individual battery
members has been found in nearly every plant not equipped with General
Electric Co., U.S.A., Boiler Flow Meters.
DOES IT EXIST IN YOURS?
Can yon afford to overlooK this Saving?
Same 5—5000 H.P. Boilers delivering 2500 B.H.P. = 75,0001 b. per
hour.
Load EQUALLY divided because fires, draught, etc., are regulated in
accordance with the indications of the General Electric Co., U.S.A., Boiler
Flow Meters connected to each boiler of the battery.
Efficiency curve gives total battery efficiency as 72 %.
Steam costs HA4d. per 10001 b., Avith coal, labor, etc., same as Case 1.
Saving, 4 X A % in cost of generating steam.
Send for Descriptive Bulletin No. 7676
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC CO
217 Clarence Street
SYDNEY.
Corner of Queen GX Little Collins Streets,
MELBOURNE.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Sow on
Prize Medals.
sdf
Works : Birming-nam, England
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
| paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Ser.es.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
Because the Body-Building Power of Bovril has been
proved to be from 10 to 20 times the amount taken.
sd
OTHER MODELS
From 7/6 £o 40/*
The Accondeon with
The Mellow Tone
ts just perfection for Sang Accompaniments. Dance Music and
Picnics. The Organ-like Tone of these Instruments is attained
by the use of Bell Metal Reeds, which are hand-fitted and tuned.
THREE POPULAR MODELS.
THE ORGAN TONED VitLBA
9 Sets Bell Metal Reeds, Price 22/6, Post Free.
THE DANCE KING
I Sets Bell Metai Reeds, Price 30/-, Post Free.
THE PICNIC MODEL
g Sets Bell Metal Reeds, Price 15/% Post Free.
FOR A FREE CATALOGUE WRITE TO
ALLAN & Co.,
276 Collins Street, Melbourne,
And also at BENDIGO GEELONG A ADELAIDE
The Australian
Magazine.
THE LONE NAND
The National
flonthly, 6d.
CONSUMMATE
EVAPORATIVE CONDENSERS
For Efficiently & Economically Condensing Exhaust Steam
All condensed steam is recovered for
boiler feed at a high temperature*
Higher Efficiency than Water Cool-
ing Towers and Lower Working
Costs*
Power consumed for circulating
purposes: One-fourteenth that re-
quired by Surface Condenser and
Cooling Towers.
Fuel and Water Charges reduced
30 to 50 per cent*
fsd
This Plant supersedes four sets of
Surface Condensers with Cooling
Towers*
Coal Saving: Actually
Effected: 2600 tons the
First Year.
Capacity: 40,0001b5. steam per
hour*
Power consumed for circulating
purposes: 7 B*H*-P.
For all Situations where Water i
Scarce
Australian Representatives:
HAES & EGGERS LTD.,
163 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
GOOD, STRONG, CLOSE SHOOTERS. Guaranteed for Quality.
STEVENS
SINGLE BARREL
SHOT GUNS.
fsd
Choke bored for nitro powder.
Case-hardened frame. For any standard make of
ammunition. Made in 12, 16 and 20 gauges in standard lengths and weights.
Ask your dealer. Insist on STEVENS. Every gun tested.
Write for Catalogue and detailed information to
ARTHUR H. HILL
Australian Representative for J. Stevens Arms & Tool Co.
Box 86 C.P.0., ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA. [1
APERTURE RIFLE SIGHTS
That on the right is the world-famous No. 9
Sight for '303 Service and Match Rifles. These
Aperture Sights have won more King’s Prizes
and other honors than all others put together.
On the left is the well-known No. 8 Aperture
Sight for miniature rifles, which can be fitted to
practically any miniature or sporting rifle. Mr. A.
J. Dalton used this sight when he put up his world’s
record of 67 consecutive bullseyes. So did the win-
ners of N. S. W. and Victorian Championships. . . .
Write for Special Booklet on Aperture Sights. Post free
I from- D Y RENN | E>
Representing B.S.A. CO. Ltd.,
Australian Buildings,
Melbourne.
f
If
Wi
a
A*
JAY
F/JV
UNSHRINKABLE
UNDERWEAR
The extreme comfort of JAY Underwear is ensuring for
it an ever-increasing sale in all parts of the world. It is
durable, economical, and guaranteed against shrinking.
Made of the Finest Australian Wool
All the wearing parts are strengthened by patented
improvements, and there are no irritating seams. Made
in all weights and sizes for men, women and children.
SOLD BY ALI HOSIERS AND OUTFITTERS.
Wholesale only: I. & R. MORLEY and GEO. BRETTLt a CO., London, England.
N.B.—The genuine JAY UNDERWEAR bears the above Trade Mark.
WILL ANDRADE for PLAYS.
8 POPULAR FARCES
FOR AMATEURS.
Contents —
Turn Him Out.
Box and Cox.
Popping the Question
That Rascal Pat.
A Kiss in the Dark.
A Regular Fix.
My Turn Next.
The Loan of a Lover.
All these are IN ONE
VOLUME for 1/-;
Poet Free, 1/2.
mmioa bhx uo,t)najv
The 125 Best Card
Tricks, 1/8; Irish Jokes
and Witty Sayings, lOd. ;
Brough’s Secret of Stage
Make-Up, 1/4; Sixteen
Amusing Farces, 1/1 ;
Thirteen One-Act Farces,
1/1 ; Twenty Humorous
Dialogues, 1/1 ; Home
Amusements, 1/1 ; “How
Old Mose Counted the
Eggs” and 116 Other
Humorous Recitations,
1/1 ; Famous Dramatic
Recitations, 1/1 ; “How
Sockery Set a Hen” and
other Comic Recitations,
1/1 ; Famous Dialect Re-
citations, 1/1 ; 1401 Con-
undrums and Riddles,
1/1 ; Art of Ventrilo-
quism, 1/1 ; Hypnotism,
Mesmerism and Clairvoy-
ance, 1/1; Amateur Con-
juring Book, 7d.
EASY CONJURING TRICKS.
• »
IsO
X
Diminishing
Cat ds.
O r d i ii a r y
Playing-
Cards, which
are apparent-
ly ‘ squeezed’
smaller and
smaller till
they dissolve
nltoge t h e r.
Complete,
with full in-
structions;
anyone can
work them.
2/9,
posted 3/-
Other Easy Card Tricks are:—(l) Wizard of the
North, and (2) The Two-from-Flve, 6d. each;
posted Bd. Above 3Tricks, post free anywhere, 4/-
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.'TWJ
Abdv’e prices include postage to any address.
? Itamps or Postal Notes of an}' State will do.
Catalogues
FREE.
201 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
EVERY MAN HIS OWN HORSE CLIPPER.
The
I
Number One Hand Horse Clipping Machine
sdf
WITH ALL-STEEL FLEXIBLE SHAFT.
A machine of extreme simplicity, with which the
veriest tyro can clip a horse equal to any expert in
30 minutes.
The makers guarantee the driving mechanism
for 25 years. Each machine is fitted with six
feet of a new-style, oil-tempered, flexible shaft and
it has the “Stewart” one-nut tension knife ’ The
device runs easily, and clips fast. It stands 39
inches high over all, and weighs 36 pounds boxed
It can be boxed into small space, and readily
carried anywhere. The measurement of the box i«
15in. x 12in. x 7in. 18
With Ball Bearings.
PRICE
40|-
Sole Agents for New South Wales & Queens-
land:
Holdsworth, Macpherson g Co.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Victoria: BRISCOE & CO
Ltd., MELBOURNE.
Sole Agents for South and West Australia-
GEO. P. HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., Ltd
ADELAIDE & PERTH.
Remington;UMC Lesmok .22 Cartridg
Again World Beaters
(Prom original
target)
10 Shots at
100 Yards
Make Best Group Ever
Achieved with any
Ammunition
The Man
J. Pepe
of London Eng.
The
REMINGTON
UMC
Lesmok .22
Cartridges
Made by Mr. J. Pepe in competition on Oct. 19,
1912, at Southfields (England) Rifle Club, with
Remington-UMC .22 Long Rifle Lesmok Cartridges.
Authorities pronounce Mr. Pepe’s target the best and most
centrally placed 10-shot group at 100 yards ever made.
Every shot can be touched by an English shilling laid over
the group and the shots average but a quarter of an inch
from the exact center of the bull’s eye.
Mr. Pepe had already fired 9,000 Remington- UMC cart-
ridges from the B. S. A. rifle with which he made this target
an eloquent testimony to the non-destructive and non-
leading qualities of Remington? UMC ammunition.
Shoot the Champion-Making Cartridges
Remington.- UMC — a Century’s Experience to
Back Up Your Aim.
Made by the Remington Arms—Union Metallic Cartridge Co.
For Sale by Leading Dealers Everywhere
Patented
: 3
Unrivalled.
“UNITAS”
■The most
capable Calculating Machin
for all 4 species with two result works. —Calculates individual products
and final result simultaneously and automatically.—Saves time and money
with all ca f culation work.
Suitable for checking invoices, for stock-taking accounts, estimates,
trigonometrical calculations, etc.
Used by Government and Municipal Authorities, Insurance
Companies, Banks and numerous large private concerns of all kinds.
RETAILERS AND AGENTS REQUIRED.
Ask for Prospectuses and Price List.
LUDWIG SPITZ 8 CO., G.m.b.H., Berlin SW. 48.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printe
and bound ; containing upwards of Three nundre
of “ Hop’s ” best drawings. full Bulletin siz
Price, 21s.


FEELING
POORLY
sd
Just dragging around? Tired all
the time ? Languid, depressed,
discouraged ? Do not stimulate;
that will only make bad matters
worse. Take a tonic, a regular
tonic, and one entirely free from
alcohoL Take
Ayetfs
Sarsaparilla
BOLD FOR
00 YEARS
You will soon feel the gain all
through your system. And you
will keep the gain, too. Ask your
doctor, and do as he says.
To get the most out of Ayer's
Sarsaparilla, your bowels should
be regular. Correct any tendency
to constipation with Ayer’s Pills.
Dose, just one pill at bedtime.
Prepared by DR. J. C. AYER CO..
Lowell. Mass.. U. S. A.
fsd
m
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
3 ror 10I-
t Black, White,
' Cream, Natural, or
Black tipped with
White.
(Length, 10 inches.) Post
Free to any address.
Worth twice the money. Write
to-day. Send Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention Tim Buli.ktin.l [ft
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
b
, . ; *
SYDNEY : John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
MELBOURNE : Bri-coe & Co., Ltd., Lit. Collins St.
/BRISBANE : Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH : McLean Bros. & Rigg.
Aits. Rep.—T. Nicholls, c/o Sydney Agents.
Parlors Quoits
A Splendid and Exciting Home Game
Strong and Durably Built
B
ZL
Everybody likes Rope Quoits* but it is too rough and
noisy for the home circle. This Clever Game of Parlor
Quoits is just as interesting and everyone can play it,
young and old, with unfailing zest There is a post or
'peg upon which the rings are thrown, a goal or pit to
catch the rings, a rear fence to keep the rings on the
table, six metal rings and a mechanical pitcher, very
clever and strongly built, with which the rings can be
thrown with great precision when, once the knackris
acquired, but it needs some skill and practice. Any
number of players can compete and there are two kinds
of games, both very exciting To make it quickly
known we will ( 100 sets at only Nalf-a«Cl*OWIB
each, packed in a nice box with full directions, we pay
carriage The regular price will be 5/6. Send at once
or you may be disappointed Obtainable only from
The Union Co««29s Elizabeth St.. Melbourne
o
£„7c.
I
fe-
PL
HOW TO CO
ON THE STAGE
A Six Guinea Course of Home Instruction, written by a
Celebrated Actor and published in America at 4/2 We
;sell it for 4 f- delivered anywhere, and give with it a
Box of Twelve Theatrical Make-up Paints.
Twenty Lessons, fully explaining the art of acting, how to
ylay all kinds of parts, how to study a part, how to
characterise and impersonate, how to control the voice, how
to gesticulate and acquire facial expression, how to make
• lip, dress, &c., how to secure an engagement and so on.
■Descriptive circular free There are only 500 of the books
available, so you should order at once to save disappoint-
ment. The Union Co. 9 299 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
best
NATURAL
fsd
APERIENT
WATER
BONNINCWS WILL ANSWER YES
6 ohni« 07
M 055
IRISH
Sold Everywhere.
1/6 CSL 2/6.
to the question—is it the best ? Yes it is undoubtedly the
best Cough Remedy that skill and purest ingredients can
produce. This preparation has been curing Coughs
and Colds for upwards of 45 years, and although numer-
ous imitations have appeared from time to time none
have stood against “Bonnington’s’' of 40 years fame.
BONNINGTQH’S
Irish Moss.
The ideal family medicine is equally
beneficial for Adults or Children.
Mothers can give it to the little ones
with every confidence as it is entirely
free from harmful narcotics.
Do not take imitations —just ask for “BONNINGTON’S” and
see that you get it.
«5
HOW
IRIS”
: &£2
RUNKENNESS Cured.
DAny lady can cure the most violent drunkard—secretly— at home. GOLDEN'
SPECIFIC has no odor or taste, and can be taken by the most delicate person
of either sex. It total'y eradicates all craving- for stimulants, creating a last-
ing antipathy to alcohol in a few weeks. Many cases are cured in a few days
with this treatment. . . Send 2d. stamp for FREE SAMPLE and full particulars.
THE GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO., DEPT. 4-t MARKET STREET, SYDNEY." N. S.W.
1402
5 s
A Well-Rounded Bosom
Is the Pride and Joy of All Women.
No woman need remain flat and undeveloped, thin, and
miserable. Your weight can be increased, and bust developed
to normal. It is done for hundreds of others, and can be as
readily done for you. If your bust lacks development and
firmness, and your arms, neck and shoulders are thin and
scrawny, even though your face is pretty, you invariably take
second place to your more fully-developed, full-bosomed asso-
ciates in your own social set. It will always be so unless you
correct the imperfections in your figure. Send a 2d. Stamp
for a Free Sample of Dr. Falliere’s Flesh-Food, and our free
book which tells how. Flesh-Food is harmless to use, and the
treatment rapidly and permanently develops a poor figure to
normal. Thousands endorse it. Full particulars free.
FALLIERE FLESH-FOOD CO., 1103 Ash Street, Sydney (rear Equitable Life Building).
MR. G. VECSET.
TORTURING VARICOSE VEINS.
Many old, stubborn cases, even where ulcers of 20 years’ standing were
present, have been cured in a few weeks, the worst cases responding as
readily as those only recently developed. If you are a sufferer you should
obtain particulars of this wonderful remedy.
THE VECSEY METHOD
of treatment quickly
, ~ . ; ~ . luc pum a.xiu sujj-
ciues the existing inflammation. Its continued application eradicates the
accumulation that distends the veins, and restores the valves and walls to
their original healthy state.
To sufferers from Varicose Veins the Vecsey Method of treatment
comes as a great boon. Previous to its discovery no painless, permanent
palliative was known. It cures the veins absolutely, so that they do not
return. CURES without laying up or detention from business.
FREE BOOK
Send a 2d. stamp or call for free book of full par-
ticulars. Consultation and advice free.
THE VECSEY VARIX-ARIUM, 3103 Ash Street, Sydney.
1409.
9
PILLS
BRIGHTEN EXISTENCE.
It is not difficult to know when a mild aperient
is required. One feels dull and depressed; there is
acid in the stomach, oppression at the chest, numb
pain in the back, possibly a sharp attack of indigestion
or biliousness and headache.
Cockle’s Pills quickly dispel all such distressing symptoms of disorder,
cleansing the system thoroughly, restoring tone and stability to the whole
digestive apparatus, purifying the blood, and generally renewing normal
physical conditions as well as mental brightness. In a word, Cockle’s Pills
brighten existence by keeping the body fit and well. The purer skin
and clearer complexion are the sure signs of it.
Of all Chemists, 1/lJ and 2/9 per box.
TOBACCO KILLS!
8?
CP
V
;
Face /o Face iw7/i Death l
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a positive cure for
the Tobacco and Cigarette Habits. It is abso-
lutely harmless, leaves no reaction or bad after-
effects, and cures permanently.
Free Package Offer.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a trial
package of this wonderful remedy, together
with our Free Booklet, Testimonials, etc.
TRIAL PACKAGE often effects a CURE.
Mr. //. Smith, of Park Farm, Jericho, Tas-
mania, says: “I was a hard smoker for SO
years, but since takina your sample of Tobacco
Specific l have never had a smoke.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G,
107 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. [3.
PAGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
ARE YOU
Ruptured
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CU3HION APPLIANCE
Never mind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is. in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE. COMFORT, and SECURITY.
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women & children.
CESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic.
The’Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
xs use since 1966.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelas bes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S> GREEN. 210. Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
VARIOUS VERST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Lettice.
A star died upon her yellow bed
When morning wakened all the trams to
sing;
One last mosquito shrilling round my head
Wobbled a faint and disapnointed sting;
The early milkman howled like any-
thing ....
And I was dreaming that Lettice was wed.
Lettice, whose hot kiss burned against my
own,
Whose small brown hand had fluttered
so in mine,
Whose voice was as clear reed-pipes over-
blown
By young crisp breezes that the rains
refine
In happy springtime, when the closed
buds pine
For warm bee-kisses that their dreams have
known!
Lettice. whose eyes were like soft wells
made still
£t ev , enin K in s <> m e holy place remote,
u ben o er the pine-fringe of a sleeping hill
One happy cloud, sun-painted, seems to
float
Freighted with all desire—a golden boat
Whose sails the longings of the silence fill.
Lettice, whose dark hair from its wavy
braid,
Down-falling o’er her shoulders, seemed
' - to make
shadow in midmost heart of shade
Ihan all the darkness oldest Night can
shake
Out her dusky apron for the sake
Uf timid love that wooes a trembling maid.
Lettice, whose name was as a fragrance shed
A .°l er J- ose gardens when the petals fall
the hot sun-kiss, and the earth is red
v\ ith fainting sweetness by the moss-
grown wa11....
So faintly sweet the soft word holds me
thrall. ...
And I was dreaming that Lettice was wed.
Clear morning nursed the young day on her
knee.
Along the wires the trams began to sing,
To-1??!. m °SQuit o spread his wings to flee,
Wobbling a faint and disappointed
sting. ...
And scarce I recked of what the day
should bring,
For I had dreamt Lettice was wed to me!
Nsw -
D.M.W.
The Opium Pipe.
Upon a mat the Chinese smoker lay,
Resting his head
On bags of straw, beside a wooden tray
With quaint bowls spread,
And having filled his long-bulbed pipe, he
burned
Raw opium,
Inhaled sweet smoke, forgot the world, and
yearned
For dreams to come.
He did not see the haggard girls and men
Sprawl on the floor,
Nor that impassive keeper of the den
Guarding the door,
But down the pleasant river of his dream
He glided on,
Until he saw the colored lanterns gleam
In old Canton.
He watched the rice-fields, waterfalls and
rills,
The shine and shiver
Of slender bamboos, and the White Cloud
hills,
His own Pearl River.
Then, crooked streets with lacquered shops
arrayed,
Dim camphor-trees,
Flowery pagodas, gates of carven jade,
Brown junks, grey seas ;
Fantastic banners, coolies rushing by,
Boys flying kites,
Ancestral tombs, a dragon in the sky,
All strange delights,
A world created by some drowsy djinn,
Till sleep’s caress
Blotted the colors and the outlines in
Forgetfulness....
Mute, motionless, the seller of cheap dreams
Guarded the door.
Pale men and women, in the lamp’s dim
gleams,
Sprawled on the floor,
Unconscious of the jarring world, withdrawn
From dreamless folk ;
When, startled by a glimmer of the dawn,
The sleeper woke.
He left the den of dreams at break of day,
Unlucky he,
To change a bright illusion for the grey
Reality.
VICTORIA.
LOUIS ESSON.
Vigil.
By the wicker gate of love,
In the shadow of the pines,
In a transport of desire,
I have waited many nights—
Waited, dreaming sweet delights,
In my heart a glowing fire,
Watched a roseate star that shines
In phantasmal blue above.
I have stript my soul of sin,
Cleansed my heart and purged my mind ;
I am fit to woo you, quite;
I’ve a tale that must be told !
All without is dark and cold.
All within aglow with light—
Your dear shadow on the blind ;
Will you bid me enter in?
n.s.w.
W. M. WHITNEY.


Every Business Man
Should be Careful in the Choice of a Desk for his Office —he should
carefully consider Quality, Utility, Convenience, Appearance and Price.
.
isfe
•..fS.."-.: • •
••
-
•:
THIS HANDSOME OFFICE REQUISITE is in Solid Oak, with doub’e
Pedestal, nine Smoothly-working, Roomy Drawers, each fitted with
ornamental handles and lock and key. Beautifully finished.
Our Special Price - - £6/17/6.
CALL IN AND INSPECT
OUR FINE OFFICE
FURNITURE.
Sydney
DINNEFORDS,
Magnesia
DINNEFORDS
! IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tation s purchasers
must see that
“Dinneford &Co.”
is on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
HPHE BEST STORIES written in Australia appear in Til
1 LONE HAND each month. Phice Sixpence.
SB£&
SBk
LrCi-fS-
s>
s
sg&
•vT-n
‘\vrs
,V>;
O
£
*»?
v*.
&
.
■
S'
vS.
3U5
ASK THE ARCHITECT
About Wunderlich Metal Manufactures
and his reply will be, practical experience has proved to him the
superiority of
Wunderlich Ceilings & Wall Linings
both in decorative and durable qualities.
Handsome and Artistic in designs, it not only beautifies the HOME,
but increases its selling and rental value.
Easy to install and needing no repairs.
COUPON. \
Estimates, Full Particulars and Catalogue will be forwarded post free on receipt of
your name and address.
Mr.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, BRISBANE,
HOBART, LAUNCESTON ; and at WELLINGTON, N.Z
'■'l
■•'.V
1
I
w
The 'Watershed
OILSKIN
BEST FOR
Riding, Driving,
Motoring and Walking.
Obtainable front all Leading Store-
keepers and made in two weights—
“ DUGONG-WATERSHED,"
light weight lor general
use. Price 32/6.
“ RAINBOW-WATERSHED,"
stout make, lor rough
wear. Price 25/-
If unable to obtain from your Store-
keeper, order direct from us.
WE PAY THE CARRIAGE.
( 7hdtim
RUBBER CO. LTD.,
Patentees and Manufacturers,
270 George Street, SYDNEY,
And at MELBOURNE.
f
Congo
EACH roll of Congo roofing is a yard wide and
72 feet long. It can be cut and trimmed
easily with a knife.
To make a roof with it, simply unroll the roof-
ing and nail it down, cementing the laps tirmly
together with the adhesive cement which we supply
free. We supply the nails and tin caps free also.
With each roll goes a ten-year Surety Bond Guar-
antee. Back of the guarantee stands the Royal
Exchange Assurance of London.
Sample free on request.
Congo Damp Course is a waterproof,
antiseptic felt to be laid against the foundation walls
on the outside to protect them against dampness and
vermin. Use it to insure having a dry cellar. The
expense is trifling.
Australian Agents: —Noyes Bros. Sydney), Ltd.,
Sydney; Noyes Bros. (Melbourne), Ptv., Ltd.,
Melbourne; Brabant & Co., Brisbane; Walter Eeid
& Co., Ltd., Rockhampton ; Elder Smith & Co.,
Ltd., Adelaide; Millars’ Karri & Jarrah Co., Ltd.,
Perth ;
William Hart & Sons, Launceston; T. A. Tabart, Jnr., Hobart.
ON TNEHOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price. 21s.
HALLEY MOTOR LORRIES
Any Type of Body Fitted
The Halley Motor Lorry is not an adaptation of pleasure car construction,
but a commercial vehicle intelligently designed and built on the basis of soun
service and satisfaction to the user.
The Halley is designed by a specialist in industrial motors. It is designe
for hard conditions, hard work and severe usage. It does not ask for idea con
tions under which to do its work. It takes things as it finds them, an m
difficulties only to surmount them. „
The roughest and most hilly road is negotiated with ease. The HALLE
efficiency and reliability are equalled only by its simplicity and ease o con ro .
Two entirely separate systems of ignition (Bosch Magneto and Battery
Coil), Zenith Carburetter and Radiator specially designed for hot c ima '
Chain-cases fitted to all models, which make for silence and insure longer s
vice from the chains.
To Carry from 1 Ton to 6 Tons
We will willingly send, post free, full particulars concerning Halley Lorries
of all types. Any demonstration arranged on request.
Note. —A Special Halley Model for Wool-carrying and Generall W ork
has been designed and constructed. It carries 6 tons and trails 2 tons. _ e c
dially invite inquiries concerning the special attributes of this special mo e .
DALGETY (Q. CO. Ltd.
Motor Garage : 136=138 Phillip St., Sydney.
Agents for Daimler, Austin, Delaunay-
Belleville, Napier, Buick, Opel, Cadillac,
Lacre Lorries and Halley Lorries.
Agents for Daimler, Austin, Delaunay-
BellevlHe, F.N., Cutting, Halley Lorries
and Lacre Lorries.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Oliice, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 34.—N0. 1733.
THURSDAY, MAY 1, 1913.
Pkcob 6m.
THE INEVITABLE PEST.
We were conducted to the exact spot upon which will stand the Parliament House of Australia. It was occupied, gentlemen,
by two rabbits (laughter.) I saw them both.-Rider Hazard.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Mac-
Leod, of Musgrave and McLeod, Streets,
Mosman, for The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd.,' at the Office of the Co., 214
George Street, Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES : Business, 1384 Central,
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.) >
Per Annum .. •• •• £lO 0
Half-yearly • • • • • • " 7 n
Quarterly.. .. •• •• 0 < o
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings Sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some
care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertxsemenls, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention. .
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin, is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of. officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
lUSTh'e contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the form
of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short
Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Australian sub-
jects, and not exceeding two columns in length, or,
say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded with-
out stamps for return it will be understood that the
copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Personal
applications for return of MS. cannot receive atten-
tion. The Bulletin desires, further, those sending
MS. to distinctly understand that it is not respon-
sible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs In Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash, of
sufficient merit and interest and adapted for direct
reproduction, or any interesting photograph illus-
trative of a current event, will be paid for same on
acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea, but
unfitted for direct reproduction—i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and , Co., J,il Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. IV. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; W. E. Lenehan, 585
Wth Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Itandolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street, Ilong
Kong.
Ceylon. — lV. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tas-
mania and New Zealand; and on account of Messrs.
Atkinson and Co., and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide —at
.'i/6 per doz. nett.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size, 6%in.
x Hin.. and gelatine transparencies, will be forwarded
on application. Larger metal plates can be supplied if
desired.
Postage Rates.
Single Copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) :—throughout the Commonwealth, New Zea-
land, Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, 10oz.. id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, 16oz. Id. Only one newspaper should be en-
closed in each packet — otherwise, Boz. Id., and Bioz.
to 10oz., Z\d.; lOoz. to 12oz. Sd.; elsewhere, )oz. Id.,
and id. each additional Soz.
TT^^zzllelzTi,
THURSDAY, MAY 1, 1913.
SOME FURTHER ASPECTS, GRAVE
AND GAY, OF THE REFERENDA
SHINDY.
Out of the tornado of oratorical blither
which has been raging during the past
month, two main anti-Referenda arguments
emerge. The S. M. Herald mentioned one
of them recently, as follows: —
The Government says it cannot grapple with trusts
and monopolies, and it has no proper control of in-
dustrial conditions throughout the Commonwealth.
But, as Mr. W \t>e rightly insists, this is only be-
cause the Federal Government ivill not exercise or
help to exercise, powers which already exist.
Any stray or hedge-Liberal will be fiercely
delighted to supply the other. It is one of
those easily-assimilated political catch-cries
or gags which are a perfect boon to old
women, bagmen and others who hate to put
an undue strain on their minds. The gist
of it is that, by a piece of extraordinary
good fortune, the Australian Parliament
cannot “grapple with trusts,” and “has no
proper control of industrial conditions
throughout the Commonwealth.” The pre-
datory and dangerous body which the people
of Australia elect triennially on a universal
suffrage basis thought it had these powers,
but Chief Justice Griffith taught it bet-
ter. According to the habitual voicer of
ready-made gags, if this state of affairs is
altered there will be Chaos —in fact, “Social-
ism.” (While on the subject of political
gags, it is suggestive to remark how people
who live uncomplainingly in the very midst
of Socialism, who travel in Socialistic trains
and trams, wash in Socialistic water, send
their children to Socialistic schools,
clamor periodically for Socialistic ferries,
gas, bridges and the like, still retain a sort
of vague, theoretic dread of the exploded old
Horror.) The trouble which is forecasted
by these persons as a result of the carriage
of the Constitutional amendments asked for
by the Australian Government is such as
has never been experienced by any civilised
State on this earth. It is suggested that
the well-meaning bourgeois legislators whom
Australia is in the habit of electing, will
suddenly suffer an appalling mental and
moral change. Regardless of their well-paid
jobs, of their wives and families, of the re-
spect of their fellows, and of the ultimate
vengeance of a scandalised Providence,
they will start robbing people right and left
by the simple process of nationalising the
nation’s businesses. No one will be safe once
these demented ruffians get fairly into their
stride. A prominent Liberal speaker enu-
merated, the other day, 127 different indus-
tries which might be utterly devastated, in
N. S. Wales alone, if the Trade and Com-
merce clause was altered. In the heat of
argument, the lower order of Liberal goes
further, and states definitely that, if the
Australian Parliament is given the necessary
power, these things will be done; though it
is possible to indicate in all the ages, and all
over the civilised world, all manner of Par-
liaments, including that of Great Britain,
no better, take them all for all, than the
Commonwealth’s, in which full power to do
the wildest and most freakish things existed,
but was never used.
* * * *
The soundest way to meet the ridiculous
contention that the Federal Parliament has
power to properly control trusts and indus-
trial conditions throughout the Common-
wealth, and that accordingly there is no
present need to “tinker with the Constitu-
tion,” is to cite a few of the things which
it admittedly can’t do. For example, it
can’t insist on the registering of a mark
upon manufactured goods, by means of which
the consumer may learn whether his pur-
chases are the fruits of union or non-union
labor. It can’t do anything to compel the
Australian manufacturer to pay his em-
ployees adequate wages in return for the
tariff protection which he enjoys. And it
can’t repress State monopolies which tend to
restrain trade to the public detriment. A
Liberal Government, under Alfred Deakin,
put measures aiming at all these badly-
needed reforms on the statute book, but the
High Coqrt declared them to be invalid. A
Deakin administration tried to establish an
effective Federal Arbitration Court. It was
frustrated owing to the interpretation put
by the High Court on Parliament’s powers
under the Constitution. The Australian Par-
liament is impotent as regards any business
which nominally confines itself to one State,
no matter how injurious that business may
be to Australia at large. Thus, a large
body of ultra-pietists regard Tattersall’s
sweep as one of the last words in devilish-
ness. The Fisher Government has a few
members of this sainted brigade in its ranks.
Spurred on by them it has made repeated
assaults on Tattersall’s. In vain. Safely
entrenched behind the State Rights of Tas-
mania the big gambling concern is in a posi-
tion to cheerfully defy Fisher and his
myrmidons. The situation would be the same
if Tattersall’s were an Oil Trust, or a
Beef Trust. It may be said that the differ-
ent States have power to repress injurious
combines. But the experience of the only
other country whose Constitution closely
resembles ours is that individual States
cherish their Trusts, even though the nation
at large groans under them. A big Trust
is one of the most paying affairs that a small
State can have about the premises. Both
Labor and Liberal parties in the Federal
sphere feature on their platforms an Insur-
ance Bill after the Lloyd-George model.
This particular variety of Socialism insists
that the employer and the employee, as well
as the State, shall contribute weekly sums
towards workers’ sickness and unemploy-
ment pensions. Without an amendment of
our Trade and Commerce clause,, along the
lines suggested by the Fisher Government,
any measure of the sort would be declared
invalid the moment it came before the High
Court. Parliament wastes its time, to all
intents and purposes, over measures such as
the Seamen’s Comnensation Act. There
has been talk, of late, of irrigating the
Northern Territory. Provided the water came
from sources that were indisputably inside the
Territory, all would be well. But if, by
any chance the fluid which percolates from
(say) the Musgrave Ranges or the Deering
Hills were drawn upon, South Australian
State Righters would certainly arise in a
condition of fury and protest against the
infamy, and the Commonwealth’s third Par-
liament would endorse their action. Avia-
tion is going to be a feature of everyday life
within the next few years. It is an absurd
anomaly that, though the British Parlia-
ment has power to pass an Aviation Act
binding all over the United Kingdom, the
Australian Parliament has no power to pass
a uniform Aviation Act for the benefit of
Australia. It is profitless to extend this
dreary list further. As an outcome of what
Boutmy, in his “Studies in Constitutional
Law,” has termed that most “striking politi-
cal oaradox —the supremacy of a small oli-
garchy of non-elected, unremovable judges
in a democracy,” the Australian Parliament
is, so far as matters of industrial and trade
reform are concerned, practically impotent. It
has less power than it thought it had ; it has
less power than the people meant it to have:
it has less power than the rabidest anti-Fed-
eralist of 13 years ago feared that it might
have, and was darned glad that it didn’t
have.
★ * * *
A far greater constitutional authority
than J. Cook or C. G. Wade —in fact, one
of the greatest that the world has known,
made this profound remark: —
There ought to be in every Constitution an avail-
able authority somewhere. The sovereign power must
be come-at-able.
The whole trouble with the Australian Con-
stitution, as interpreted by a majority of the
High Court, is that it is not “come-at-able.”
Under it the sovereign power, which is to
say the will of the people,' is denied fulfil-
ment in scores of vitally important direc-
tions. Practically every section of the com-
munity favors the “New Protection.” A
Deakin Government originated it. The
Laborites of that period supported it. Lib-
erals of the calibre of W. H. Irvine, of
Victoria, and J. Garland,, of N. S. Wales,
acclaimed it. The Fusion people made
it one of their few planks in
1909. But three lawyers out of a
bench of five said that it must not be. The
Australian Industries Preservation Act
(1907) was a Deakin measure of which
every democrat in the Commonwealth ap-
proved. The same three lawyers declared
that Australia must not have it. If one ma,t
judge by the fact that both the big political
parties are going baldheaded for an Insur-
ance Act, the temper of the country is in
favor of invalidity and out-of-work pensions.
But the country is going' to have no say in
this urgent matter. The arbitrament will
be with a little band of lawyers. And as
time goes on, more reforms which only the
Australian Parliament can attempt will ob-
trude themselves. And always the lawyers
above-mentioned will decide as to whether
or no Australia is to be allowed to have
them. Can any more imbecile situation be
imagined? The sole coherent objection to a
change, that is forthcoming from any quar-
ter, is that the Australian Parliament, if
given enlarged powers over trade and com-
merce, may abuse those powers. The more
unintelligent type of Liberal imagines the
wildest impossibilities as adumbrated above.
And every type of Liberal imagines some-
thing calamitous; or, if he doesn’t, he affects
to, for party purposes. The answer to such
idiotic assumptions is that reasonable people
do not insist on their full pound of flesh, so
to speak, in the matter of doing all that they
are legally entitled to do. Bageiiot has
drawn our attention to a few of the things
that the British sovereign could do if he or
she cared to exercise the prerogative. The
King could, without consulting Parliament,
disband the army; dismiss all the officers
from the General Commanding-in-Chief
downwards ; dismiss all the sailors, and sell
the navy and naval stores; make a peace by
the sacrifice of Cornwall, and begin a war
for the conquest of Brittany; make every
citizen in the United Kingdom, male or
female, a peer; make every parish school in
the kingdom a “university”; pardon all
offenders, and so forth. Of course, no sove-
reign would dream of doing any of these
things. The modern monarch keeps his hand
with the utmost attention upon the public
pulse. Similarly, a modern Ministry which
was handed the battle-axe of office on the
understanding that it was to pass certain
measures of reform, and, for the rest, com-
port itself, in all things, in a sane and equit-
able fashion, would be one of the last insti-
tutions on earth to outrage the conscience of
the nation by wantonly bringing ruin upon
the business of electors whose only offence lay
in the fact that they were prosperous. In the
language of Ibsen, “People don’t do such
things”—least of all, politicians in the enjoy-
ment of a minimum stipend of £6OO per
annum, and free railway passes.
[John Bede Dalley, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Literary Hunger Strike.
On Thursday last a number of Liberal
dailies downed ink-bottles, so to speak, _as
regards editorial comment on the coming
Federal elections. They did it by way of
protest against what they have somewhat
bellowdramatically christened the “Press
Gag.” The alleged gag is, of course, the innoc-
uous provision in the Federal Electoral Act
which enjoins that for some weeks before each
election all Federal political matter must be
signed by the writer. This strike is very
similar to that with which the British Suf-
fragettes have familiarised the world. The
papers want to write about politics almost as
much as the Suffragettes want food. Like the
Suffragettes, they are refraining from that
which they yearn for, in the expectation that
a scandalised nation will come to their assist-
ance. It is all Collins-street to a fragment
of road-metal that the scheme will prove
futile. Consider, first, the factor of the
public. Speaking in a general way, the
great heart of the populace would remain
unmoved if the papers never wrote another
political article in their lives. A few people
would be embarrassed —chiefly the sort of
tiresome nuisances who, having no ideas of
their own, are driven to depend on the press
for the stock political gags which they fire
at their exasperated acquaintances. None of
the rest would be half as pained as they
would be if the beer supply failed tempo-
rarily, or if wet weather rendered the foot-
ball season, a failure. Many of them
wouldn’t even know of the calamity, were
their attention not attracted by ceaseless
moans on the subject in the news-columns of
the journals concerned. And what of the
politicians? An instructive line as to their
views on this question may be got from the
fact that not one of them, whether Libera,
or Labor, has pledged either his party or
himself to battle for the abolition of the
so-called infamy in the event of his being
returned to Parliament. This particular “in-
terference with the Briton’s inalienable privi-
lege of free comment,” and so forth, is, of
course, right into the politicians’ hands. It
operates, primarily, to protect them from
abuse and misrepresentation. There is a
common variety of political writer —the
suave scandal-monger of journalism —who,
while capable of tieing. absolutely excoriating
under a pen-name, is almost clerical in his
mild benignity over his own f signature. No
one will be more delighted than the politician
to see him brought into the open. Again,
the experience of the last Federal by-elec-
tion proved that candidates were far better
and more fairly reported where the reporters
had to put their names to their efforts. This
is an elementary proposition in human nature.
A writer doesn’t much mind what sort of
whiskers his editor wears, but when it comes
to appearing in such disfigurements himself,
it is another matter. And. above all, under
the new system, the politician, or, at any
rate, the Liberal politician, stands to get a
better advt. than he has ever enjoved
hitherto. He will be candidate and leader-
writer in one. The most sparkling phrases,
the profoundest utterances will be put into
his mouth. His grammar will be less dread-
ful than ever. By the time the unemployed
political leader-writers have finished sub-
editing him, for the furtherance of the Lib-
eral cause, he will be disposed to wonder
why, with his abilities, he is satisfied to fol-
low a comparative illiterate such as Joseph
Cook. In short, the daily papers have nr,
earthly prospect of bludgeoning the commn
nity into subjection by means of the strike
weapon, for the reason that, in the main
the community is, in its blindness, rather
pleased about the trouble than otherwise
Remains the ethical side of the question
For years and years the daily press of Aus
tralia has been mentioning, with manlv
frankness, its priceless educational value t
the public. The Sydney papers, for examnle
have frequently grown quite weak in the
knees at the bare idea of some ill-disposed
person interfering with that part of their
vocation. Their stated objections to the
discontinuance, by the See Government of
the free carriage of newspapers on ’the
N.S.W. railways, had nothing to do with
sordid business. The outrage went deeper-
also higher. It concerned the popular in-
tellect. The proprietaries saw in this mad
action a wanton blow at the very brain of
the populace. That is to say, they said thev
did. If in the expression of these and simi-
lar views they were insincere; if the sheets
which fought against the abolition of an
inequitable old system whereunder the State
of N. S. Wales paid their carriage account
did so on purely business lines; if, i n their
hearts, they do not believe that they are of
anv educational value to the people; then
they will continue the cruel and insensate
strike on which they have embarked. If, on the
other hand, they believe in Liberalism, aud
in their self-imposed task of instilling the
principles of that most elusive and baffling
creed into the minds and hearts of the elec-
tors, they will swallow their pride and get
back to work. If the principles of Liberal-
ism are of any value, and if the press has
any influence, every hour that this strike
lasts represents a serious public wrong.
Ignorance as regards the aims and meaning
of Liberalism is falling upon the habitual
leader-student like clods. Already he is
beginning to forget whether, for the purposes
of the coming election, he is an anti-Protec-
tionist or an anti-Federalist, or an anti-Con-
scriptionist, or an anti-Australian navyite, or
an anti-Socialist, or what. Presently ’he
will not care. And then unquestionably
Armageddon will be near, and eternal Sheol
more or less adjacent.
[John Bede Dalley, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
Liberalism and Defence—and Anti-
Defence.
It is the custom of Conservatives all over
the world to oppose every new idea that is
advanced, and, later, when that idea has
been generally accepted as a sound one, to
claim blandly that they approved of it all
along. Reasonable people recognise the
desirability of this procedure. Even stu-
pidity is not eternal; and it is always well
that converts should be allowed to save their
faces wherever possible. But it is one of
the unwritten laws of the game, so to speak,
that the somersault shall not be executed
either too soon or too blatantly. Free-
traders have been turning unobtrusively
into advocates of “tariff peace” (which is
to say into Protectionists) all over Aus-
tralia of late years. No one has reminded
them of the days when they fought elec-
tions on the fiscal issue, and talked of Free-
trade as “a sacred cause,” a “cause that
was worth living and dying for,” and so
forth. One reason was that these ex-Free-
traders didn’t offensively claim very shortly
after their metamorphosis that they had
believed in a high tariff for Australia all
along, and that, as a matter of fact, it was
only the machinations of the Protectionists
which had delayed the utter ruin of Cobden-
ism. Liberalism has shown no such seemly
restraint in the matter of the defence ques-
tion. Actually the party which is led by
Joseph Cook, and which numbers in its
ranks Bruce Smith, W. H. Kelly, W. E.
Johnson, et al., has started, at this inde-
cently early hour, to claim that it founded
compulsory military service (the system
which every one of the above politicians has
denounced, quite recently, as “conscription,”
and “an un-English interference with the
liberty of the subject”) ; and that it origin-
ated the Australian navy idea. For ex-
ample, the S. M. Herald had the imperial
nerve to print the following last week: —
Some people argue that the Federal Labor party
deserves credit, because of its attitude towards Aus-
tralian defence. Here, again, however, we are up
against the party wall. The Commonwealth Govern-
ment, now on its trial, came into power with the
present defence system practically in being. The
Labor party had discovered that the people of Aus-
tralia were in deadly earnest about this vital ques-
tion. and that no appeal for their votes would count
for much unless there was a definite endorsement oI
the Liberal policy and programme.
The recital of a few bald historical facts is
the best corrective of this sort of mendacity.
In 1908-09 a Fisher Government held office.
In the forefront of its platform stood coastal
and land defence. There wasn’t an Anti-
Socialist” in those days who didnt howl
“conscription” every time he heard the word-
“national service.” The Liberal alternativ
to 'the navy proposed by the Govern-
ment was not some other _ sort ot local
navy, but an increased subsidy to Britain.
According to .Liberalism, the whole m e a 0
local fleets was tactically wrong. JVDu -
was quoted as an opponent of anything o
the sort. Also, various British admiral ■>
and Bruce Smith, and the presidents o
innumerable Liberal Women’s Leagues,
opposition to the axiom that Australia s -
as a nation, would be decided, not in t
waters, but in the North Sea, was brusneu
impatiently aside, in Liberal circles, as
tious and uninformed. The visit. ot .
United State’s fleet had stirred the lmag na
tion of the Commonwealth. The very suburb
were beginning to opine, hesitatingly, ,
the place was big enough to have a Mi f
its own. But Parliamentary Conservat •
astigmatic to the last, failed to P.ee it.
and his followers seized upon the
.war scare (a scare which we k noW . son
have been baseless, and which there 1 ‘ .
to suspect, had its disreputable or g
the Continental armament-shops) t
the Dreadnought agitation. This, a
succeeded, must, of course, have d -
Laborites,” since it would have amounted
a plain admission that -while me for
defence was all very well as a pa e y
swollen-headed young colonies w jj ave
to burn, the real business of war , e j, a if
to be undertaken on this count
on the other side of the earth. j n a
GRAPH well expressed the a J )OV f rn ua point-
cartoon, which represented Australia
ing to a Dreadnought, and say mg. w |th
to Fisher, who was depicted piayms


a toy boat: “That’s all very well for amuse-
ment, Andy, but this is what we will have
to rely on to keep the flag flying.” About
this time more than one Liberal M.P. stated,
amid cheers, that if a tinpot Australian
navy was built there would ue an attempt by
local “Disloyalists” to turn the guns on the
Mother-Country’s warships. Joseph Cook,
on being asked his naval policy, at a public
meeting, replied: “My policy is to give a
Dreadnought to England—and, if neces-
sary, 20 Dreadnoughts.” G. S. Little-
john, of the Sydney Chamber of Commerce,
in a speech (1./4/’O9) dealing with the
local navy question, compared the Govern-
ment to a demented father who set out to
teach his child the art of war:—
How foolish this is when a full-grown man, fully
equipped and trained, is willing to fight the child’s
battles for him in consideration of reasonable pay-
ment.
The Sydney Telegraph wrote (11/5/’O9)
as follows —and one might quote 20 pro-
nouncements similar to it from any given
Liberal journal of the period :
Mr. Cook and Mr. Deakin have both pronounced
publicly against Mr. Fisher’s naval policy. They
have both pronounced in favor of giving a particular
kind of assistance to the Imperial navy at the pre-
sent juncture, and the particular kind of assistance
which they desire to offer is entirely different from
the scheme to which Mr. Fisher stands committed.
Everybody knows what followed. The
dead failure of the Dreadnought and
increased subsidy movement taught the
Fusion that Fisher’s naval policy (really,
of course, though few Liberals, at that time,
appreciated it, the policy of the British
Admiralty) was the one the country wanted.
After ousting Fisher and his colleagues
from' office, the Fusionists got feverishly
busy with the identical Defence policy which
a few brief weeks before they had denounced
as foolish and disloyal. The staggering
defeat they endured at the next Federal
elections was some slight indication of Aus-
tralia’s opinion of their belated conversion
from the old-time doctrines of hired navies
and voluntary military service.
[John Bede Dalley, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
♦
Cash, and Loans and Liabilities and
Principles and Sundries.
A few shiploads of money will have to be
spent on Sydney within the next 10 years, if
the place insists on swallowing people and
trade at the same old rate. The expensive
railway problem is still being grappled with
—or, perhaps, it would be more correct to
say that it is being pushed about and asked
to move on. Then, hovering in the back-
ground, are the financial nightmares of the
street tunnels or burrows, and the everlast-
ing North Shore Bridge. On top of all this
comes the statement of C. C. Lance, Presi-
dent of the Sydney Harbor Trust, before
the Dominions’ Royal Commission, that new
wharf facilities, the estimated cost of which
is £6,500,000, will be required inside the
next 10 years. If the stupendous job were
started now, it would be . completed just
when required; but, even in this time of
bounding prosperity, there is no money
available for a new lot of immense jobs, and
no immediate prospect of getting the money.
Only a few months ago, the financial pit-
cher that went too often to the pawnshop
well cracked with a loud report, and Gov-
ernment jobs everywhere dried and shed
their workmen. The golden trickle has since
been renewed in some measure; but it is
a very costly trickle (some of it is costing
£4 7s. per cent.), and the expenditure of the
reckless McGowen Government is so far
ahead of revenue. (£1,731,755 in the first
nine months of this financial year) that any
honest person with a regard for the future
prays that Cohenloup, of England, will
keep the brake on hard. McGowen, appar-
ently, does not know where the brake is ; in
fact, there is a suspicion that he has never
looked for it. As the seasons seem to be
arranged by Providence on the switchback
principle, and as Australia has been on the
crest of the wave for several years, it seems
reasonable to assume that the next 10 years
will not be more bountiful than those just
past. Even with trade flourishing every-
where, N. S. Wales is now borrowing at
top speed, and the steam is fairly thunder-
ing from the escape valve; but, even though
it is working at a daneerous pressure, it
can hardly keep up with the jobs it already
has on hand. Where are the mTlions for
the big fancy schemes to come from, and
what are they going to cost ultimately in
interest, curses and tears? The cost of mak-
ing a human anthill is a progressive sort of
madness. Still, if the Government resumed
the land around Port Stephens and Twofold
Bay, and built the two scraps of railway
that are required to open them up, and con-
structed a wharf or two, there would arise
two liew cities of which the State would be
sole ground landlord and sole collector of
ground rents. And the income from the land
would pay for wharves, docks, dredges,
breakwaters gnd every other old thing, and
yet leave a large and increasing profit. And
the people thereabouts, being allowed to ex-
port and import by tbe most adjacent port
instead of by the most remote one, would
save a vast amount in needless and absurd
railway freights. And the empty regions
north and south would begin to be settled,
which would add enormously to the value of
the public estate. And the McGowen
Government would escape from the suspicion
of being a mere agent or buttoner for the
private landlords of Sydney, and might almost
begin to live up to its pretence 9f being an
advocate of the public ownership of land.
But, unfortunately, the McGowen Ministry
appears to be so securely nailed down to'the
interests of the big private landlords of Syd-
ney that it isn’t worth while arguing with that
effete institution. Even though there are
millions to be made and millions to be saved
by adhering to its own alleged principles .of
decentralisation and public land ownership,
it wouldn’t, so far as the evidence goes, be
found dead in the same paddock with its own
alleged principles. Apparently it hates its
own alleged principles worse than a terrace
of devils.
The Mad Railway Gauges.
The Federal ownership of railways has
become a live question again. As a matter
of fact, it is of far more importance than
nine out of ten of the problems that are
shoved into the front of the electoral con-
test. The 4ft. BMn. Federal line (appar-
ently the mystery of that absurd odd 4in.
will never be cleared up), is actually being
built between Port Augusta and Kaleoorlie.
It will join on to a State-owned 3ft. bin.
line at one end, and at the other it will
connect with a State-owned 3ft. Gin. line,
also two State-owned sft. 3in. lines, likewise
another State-owned 3ft. Gin. system, and,
in between the State-owned sft. 3in. line and
the State-owned 3ft. 6in. line, it will have
a certain amount of intercourse with a
State-owned 4ft. 85m. line. And the
whole thing being a stupendous jest, and
the States being unable to decide how they
will apportion the bill for the obliteration
of the jest, the need for the central authority
to take the matter in hand becomes obvious.
Of course, the N.S.W. idea is that the other
States should conform to its gauge of four
feet, and half a foot, and two inches, and a
fool of an odd half inch, and should do
it at their own expense. And two of the
other States feel inclined to reply that as, so
far as they are concerned, N.S.W. was the
cause of the whole trouble, it should pay
their bill and say no more about it. The old
Ma State, in its vast pride because it was
lagged first and was the possessor of Sydney
Harbor, could never quite bring itself to
keep faith in its dealings with its neighbors.
It broke the agreement re the acceptance' of
the first and the second Federal Constitu-
tions. It broke the early agreement that
there should be a common tariff and inter-
state freetrade, and it built the first line of
border customs houses. And it tore up the
agreement re the uniform railway gauge. At
the beginning of things the first three rail-
way-building States —S.A., Victoria and
N.S.W. —decided to take the advice of
British authorities, and the 4ft. ar-
rangement was decided upon. Then N.S.W.
consulted an Irish railway engineer, who
enthused over the sft. 3in. idea which pre-
vails in his country, and the Ma State noti-
fied its neighbors that it was making a new
departure on its own responsibility. In the
vastness of its dignity as the place that was
lagged first it assumed certain special rights
in the way of dictation. S.A. and Victoria
grumbled a little at the extra cost and the
arrogance, but they gave way, and started
building vigorously on the sft. 3in. policy.
As a result Adelaide and Melbourne are the
only two State capitals between which the
train runs without a break. Meanwhile
N.S.W., owing to temporary brevity or
dwarfishness in the cash, hung up its rail-
way works. When it resumed business the
Irish engineer was gone, and a new man
brought about a return to the original 4ft.
BMn. idea —-the one on which the three
leading States started work, and which
N.S.W. had bounced its neighbors into re-
jecting. After that—as S.A. and Victoria
were too deeply committed to draw back—
every State went its own way, and chaos,
in the shape of railway gauges which vary
from 2ft. to s|ft., supervened. Now Vic-
toria and S.A. are urged to alter their rail-
ways to the N.S.W. measurement, at a cost
of over £6,000,000 apiece; and Queensland is
advised to do the same, and is told that its
bill will be over £12,000,000 ; and Westralia
is invited to,fall into line at a cost of nearly
£11,000,000, 1 while the arrogant Ma State,
which caused all the trouble by its chronic
inability to go straight, can put its one or
two odd-gauge lines on to the 4ft. 84in. basis
at a cost of £120,000. Naturally the States
which are not Ma look coldly on the proposi-
tion, and reckon that Ma ought to pay a
great deal more of the invoice than it, seem-
ingly, proposes to do. The uniform gauge
is plainly essential, but unless the central
authority takes hold of the job it is never
likely to come to _ pass. The question of
the invoice will be in the road all the time.
[James Edmond, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
The Imperishable Strike.
The Bulletin’s Stipendiary Pessimist
writes gloomily:—
For sheer, blighted futility I readily hand the palm
to the quarrel which raged during portion of last
week between C. G. Wade and the McGowen party
on the subject of Strikes. Wade claimed that there were
only 203 strikes during his regime, as against 2156
under the McGowen Administration. (The above
figures may not be meticulously accurate, but they
are near enough.) The McGowen gang said that
Wade was a roarer, and that, owing to their masterly
handling of the State’s affairs, there had been but
300 or 400 strikes in their time, while Wade had
had to cope with unnumbered thousands of these un-
pleasantries.
The imbecility of this controversy lies in the plain
fact that, broadly speaking, Governments have no-
thing to do with the incidence of strikes. A good
Arbitration Act sympathetically administered by a
capable bench will, of course, avert a few. Reason-
able employers, and employees who are too hard-
headed to be stampeded into trouble, without good
cause, will prevent more. But nothing will wipe
them out to any great extent. They are features of
frail and erring humanity, as inevitably recurrent
as family rows. Anyone who takes the trouble to
study the history of strikes, here and elsewhere, will
see that they run in cycles. To state the case in
the jargon of the statistician; the culmination of the
prosperity curve precedes the culmination of the full
employment curve by about 12 to 18 months. It pre-
cedes the culmination of the industrial unrest curve
by from 18 months to two years. This rule is pretty
well invariable everywhere. For example, in N. S.
Wales in ’BB and ’B9 prosperity had reached its
highest point. Everything seemed right. The
Treasury was almost bursting. The banks had tons
of money to lend on almost any old lack of security.
There was a mighty land-boom in progress. Business
men were turning over their capital like wild-fire.
Everyone had cash in his pocket; or, at the worst,
a scheme in his head to get cash out of someone
else’s pocket. By the end of ’B9 the position of the
N.S.W. employee was amazingly good. There was
hardly any of him out of work, and all were earning
high wages as wages went in those days. Followed
the Wharf Laborers’ Strike, the Shearers’ Strike and
a host of others. Then came the bank smashes, the
explosion of the land boom and slump and misery—
and a decade of industrial‘peace.
To come nearer home, so to speak, the culmina-
tion of Australia’s most recent era of prosperity may
be fixed somewhere about the end of 1911. There
was a flaming and unabashed land-boom on then.
Hustling agents were selling suburban blocks to con-
genital mugs at anything from thrice the value of
the same upwards. Bogus companies were being un-
loaded on the populace at a terrific pace. Ridicu-
lous prices were being asked and obtained for sta-
tion properties. About February, 1912, the banks
started shutting down on the overdrafts —an ominous
move indicating that the prosperity wave had rolled
as far as it intended to go. Employment was at its
best and brightest about the middle of 1912. The
industrial unrest period is due here about now; in
fact, it may be said to be with us already.
These movements are quite natural, and nothing
but an alteration of the human character will correct
them. The employer, at the height of the pro-
sperity curve, comes to the conclusion —unless he is
a very thrifty citizen indeed —that he can do himself
and his family better than ever before. He accord-
ingly proceeds to enlarge his house, buy motor-cars,
give big and widely advertised entertainments, and
in general to hit things up. After a while his em-
ployees begin to take notice of his affluence. They
go after some share in it, and usually get what they
seek without undue effort. The employer finds that
his profits are thereby a little decreased. But he
still has to keep up his enlarged establishment, his
motors and his new social habits. So he sacks a few
men, That represents the small beginnings of un-
employment. Meanwhile, the employees, having
tasted financial blood, lust for more. They demand
a fresh rise. The employer, harassed by the problem
of how to maintain a £lO,OOO per annum establish-
ment on a miserable £l5O per week, rebuffs them.
They strike. The slump begins. An interesting ex-
ample of this tendency is observable in Germany to-
day. Under the uncompromising Bismarck tariff
that erstwhile poor and arid land has leaped to
vast wealth. The German has ceased, in consequence,
to be the saving, slaving person he was. Berlin is
gayer to-day, than Paris ever was. The inhabitants
stagger the remainder of humanity by the splendor
of their shows, and the luxury of their hotels and
restaurants. At Monte Carlo and such like resorts
the German has completely ousted the Englishman
as a scatterer of gold, and he is a serious rival, in
this respect, of the American and the Russian. The
explanation is that Germany, just now, is at the
height of its prosperity curve. Presently that slump
which, sooner or later, hits all people who live above
their incomes, will come; and then the Wades of
Germany will arise and exclaim wildly that it
wouldn’t have happened had they been in power,
while the McGowens of the period will howl, in
answer, that things were far, far worse in the Wade
time and that if such human calamities had to
handle the present situation there would be national
repudiation and insolvency and utter ruin. For the
purposes of the absurd old party game such pro-
testations are, no doubt, of some value. But to
thinking folks they are as the babbling of small
children.
The Complaint of the Inland Towns.
A Bendigo manufacturer, talking to Vic.
State Ministers and Railway bosses the
other day, made out a fair case for fair treat-
ment of country industries, as compared with
the concessions made to Melbourne influence.
He pointed out that the freight from Ben-
digo to Echuca (54 miles) is £1 3s. 3d. per
ton, and from Melbourne to Echuca (154
miles) it is £3 Os. 9d. per ton, which would
be equitable if it stayed at that. But a
rebate of £1 10s. 9d. is allowed on Melbourne
goods sent to Riverina, whereas the Bendigo
firms get no rebate whatever. The freight
from Adelaide to Nhill (235 miles) is
£2 Bs. Id. per ton; from Bendigo to Nhill
(228 miles) it is £4 7s. When John Mur-
ray remarked that he “couldn’t understand”
the granting of the Riverina rebate to Mel-
bourne, a Railway Commissioner artlessly ex-
plained that Bendigo has the advantage of
being so much nearer the Riverina trade,
whereby he admitted the very grievance
which the inland towns complain of. The
centralisation of manufactures in Melbourne
has been assisted by the Railway Depart-
ment with Government sanction. _ John
Murray seems to stand alone in his ina-
bility to account for the system of feeding
the fat hog from the leaner hogs’ trough.
Because Bendigo could naturally profit from
its comparative nearness to Echuca, the
manufacturers and traders of Melbourne
were advantaged by that rebate. To what
end is the Railwav freight concession on
goods sent “50 miles beyond Melbourne,” save
for the purpose of arresting the manufac-
tural development of up-country towns. A
Ballarat manufacturer complained that slack
coal from the State mine at Wonthaggi was
carried to Melbourne for id. per ton per mile,
but was charged nearly half as much again
between Melbourne and Ballarat. Melbourne
manufacturers pay only 3s. 2d. per
ton in freight for the State mine
coal on which Ballarat buyers pay
7s. 6d. To all these figures the
Acting-Premier replied, “Anyhow, the griev-
ances have almost reached a vanishing point.”
But the political folly of the endeavor to
strangle country-town industries, instead _ of
feeding and nursing them, is only beginning
to be perceived. The public grievance will
not reach a vanishing point until the State’s
immigration policy is logically associated
with an inland-town development policy.
Settlement on the land must radiate from
other industrial centres than Melbourne,
which seaport, by the way, is not surrounded
by land. Obviously, the rebates and conces-
sions hitherto' granted to Melbourne "would
be more wisely granted to Bendigo. Ballarat,
Castlemaine, etc. And, obviously, Melbourne
Trades Hall is in favor of preserving the old
order of things. Trades Hallism, nearly
everywhere in Australia, has developed under
a bad order of things, and is up against de-
centralisation all the Ume.
»
Land Aggregation in Maoriland.
The land question in Maoriland is a toler-
ably unhappy business. When Ballance
took office, in 1891, he did so with the main
object of straightening out, once and for all,
everything connected with the tenure of the
soil. Bub in grips with actual conditions
the straightening was only partial, and
instead of being as twisted and contorted
as the barbed-wire entanglements at Adrian-
ople, the land laws were made as compara-
tively free from bends as the hind leg of an
octopus or something. Ever since, a cer-
tain amount of tinkering has been going on,
and a moderate-sized political wrangle on
some minor point affecting the flax swamp
of John Smith, or the manuka scrubs occu-
pied by Percy Montmorency, can usually
be got moving when it is thought wise to direct
public attention from the monthly excursion
to Cohen’s pawnshop. Lately there was a
fierce controversy over the right of one
Brighton, of Southland, to acquire under
Massey’s recent legislation £40,000 worth
of coal for the price of a cheap suburban
allotment, and the Law has so far upheld
Massey’s contention that his legislation
didn’t really mean anything, and wouldn’t
have amounted to anything even if it had
been intended to mean something. Now the
Wellington Post has made the discovery
that large estates are being aggregated by
the piecing together of small settlement
areas quite recently purchased from the
Government. Out of the 14,374 acres held
by R. R. and W. A. Burling, at least two
small sections were State leaseholds, granted
within the last year or two, and since pur-
chased by the first occupiers to sell to the
Burling estate. This is tolerably bad busi-
ness. As between leasehold and freehold
tenures of land the argument isn’t worth
the toss of an elephant as long as there is a
land-tax on the premises to gather up occa-
sional bunches of unearned increment and
similar substances, but the aggregation of
big estates is quite another matter. Maori-
land is a small country, and the amount of
soil available to grow things will soon not
be nearly enough to go round. What is
wanted above all things is a limitation of
the areas that may actually be held. All
legislation passed within the last 20 years
recognises that Government must not lease
or sell to any one person more than 640
acres of first-class land, 2000 acres of
second-class land, or 5000 of third-class land.
The only exceptions are the sheep runs,
which are leased for comparatively short
terms, and which consist for the most part
of land which would be about fifteenth-class
if it were any class at all. Everybody knows
that 640 acres of really good Maoriland coun-
try will, if worked up to its reasonable limit,
provide a very fine living for a family.
Often, as in the Ellesmere district, 50 acres
will do so, but 640 acres of the right sort
is a really good estate. Why not get right to
work on that basis, and, by screwing up the
tail of the graduated tax in a whole-hearted
manner, make it absolutely impossible for
anybody to hold more than a reasonable
area? That is what is wanted, and the
people who talk big about reform, and only
mean some more petty tinkering, are fooling
with the whole question. Under the present
system the Government can go on buying
up land in big lumps, and leasing or selling
it in small sections right to the crack of
doom. Men will aggregate large estates as
long as it pays them to do it, and not an
hour longer. The object of any land reform
worth the name ought to be the making of
any big estate a hissing and a by-word and a
loud unseemly jest in the eyes of all rightly-
constituted people who have a due regard
for the value of twenty shillings.
♦
From Westralia comes the allegation that
the local Labor Premier, a couple of State
Labor members, and a son of a Federal
Labor politician have, among them, taken
up about 800,000 acres in mostly first-class
country adjacent to that which is to be
traversed by the Transcontinental railway.
There is a 12in. rainfall in this locality;
also a big store of artesian water. The rent
of the land mentioned in the allegation is
the paltry one of 3s. per acre, and it is
estimated that, once the Transcontinental
gets going, the value of the allegated pro-
perty will be enormous. It is, of course,
possible that these gentlemen (if they did
as alleged) had no inside information as to
the probable route of Australian’s big rail-
way when they applied for the land. But
it will need some proving. When persons
connected with the stable of a Cup favorite
start “laying” the animal furiously on, say, 4
Monday, and it leaks out on the following
Wednesday that the steed is to be scratched
for all engagements owing to one of its legs
having gone hopelessly wrong or its head
having broken down —when that sort of
event happens the public, like the suspicious
and carping hound that it is, is liable to
allege bitterly that the bettors possibly knew
all about the ruined champion’s condition on
the preceding Sabbath or earlier. Similarly,
if the allegations hold water, the electors
will possibly argue that these Westralians
knew something about the prospective value
of land in the Eucla subdivision when they
went into the pastoral business there with
such extraordinary enthusiasm and compre-
hensiveness. There is no ethical distinction
between a Minister for Works, say, who de-
liberately uses his influence to run a tram
or a train through property which he has
acquired, and a Parliamentarian who uses
knowledge that has come his way owing to
his political position, to acquire property
through which or near which a railway is
to be built. Both cases represent the gam-
ing offence known as “betting on a cer-
tainty.” And when some (possibly baseless)
alligator comes along with a plain, straight-
out allegation that certain politicians have
bet on a certainty to the extent of about
800,000 acres the matter ought to be cleared
up-
One reason given by Melb. Argus
(24/4/T3) for refusing to publish two state-
ments from Attorney-General Hughes com-
menting upon some “utterances of Mr.
Cook” and upon the policy of the Liberals
in respect of old age pensions and the mater-
nity bonus, was the omission of Mr.
Hughes to append his true name and
address to his letter. In a dull spirit of
Tory irony, the Argus quoted “for the
Attorney-General’s enlightenment” the full
text of the section of the Electoral Act deal-
ing with the signing of articles, which sec-
tion, by the way, applies only to the printed
matter published in any newspaper, circular,
pamphlet or dodger, and not to the author’s
“copy.” But in alleging the absence of the
writer’s name and address from the foot of
his manuscript as a reason for refusing to
publish it, the fatuous newspaper said, “For
this, apart from other reasons.” The other
reasons were probably genuine enough. Had
Attorney-General Hughes signed his name
in blood taken from the mangled remains of
Modesty, or What?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Jones has told me oft with pride
How the articles he writes
On its course this nation guide ;
I have listened many nights
While the brainy Jones, half-hidden in the
aromatic murk,
Smoked and told me they would never give
him credit for his work.
I have often pitied Jones,
Writing bravely in the dark;
Long I listened to his moans,
Thought his grudging boss a Nark.
Jones assured me in his leisure, and his
speech was curt and gruff,
He would go ahead like blazes if they’d let
him sign his stuff.
There were times when I had Doubts ;
But I quickly laid them low;
“Jones must have his talking bouts!
He is much-too big to blow!”
So I argued on occasions when the protests
of wild Jones
Had been bellowed at me, chanted, and
encored in minor tones.
Then there came the Signing Law,
And I softly said “Hooray!
This will stop his endless jaw.
Now each Jones must have his day!”
But the rage of Jones and comrades is just
terrible to see;
And I cannot find a reason for this wave of
modesty.
Jones assures me that his pars.
Are the work of many pens.
And his self-respect it jars,
For the others think like hens.
Then he says his paper’s viewpoint is
archaic and decayed,
And he wishes he had never taken to the
scribbling trade.
N.S.W.
E. O’F.


THE POLICY OF THE GOVERNMENT
IS BACKED BY THE SOUND
JUDGMENT OF THE PEOPLE.
"A WHITE AUSTRALIA”
. . .and . . .
"MACKIE’S
WHITE HORSE WHISKY.”
A GRAND DOUBLE.
1768
Estab
Estab 1742
sd
After a Trying Shopping Tour
drop into one of our theatres. Every-
thing is restful; soft lights, easy chairs,
quiet, interesting pictures, pleasing
music.
Can anything be more restful? And the
cost is a trifle.
The Crystal Palace—Sydney.
The Britannia Melbourne.
WILLIAM B. MILLER, Gen’l Manager.
WERE
EVERYBODY
GOES
•John Forrest, and thrown in the corpse of
Bruce Smith, and sent his address in full,
with an affidavit from his landlord, also his
rent receipt, his local rates receipt, his dog-
tax receipt and his pretty daughter’s birth
certificate, he might still have been bowled
out by these “other reasons.”
+
Truly the Freetrade isles of Britain are re-
garded by their own folk as good places to
get away from. Thus in 1911, the last year
for which complete returns are available,
the net exit amounted to 302,722 English
and Welsh, 88,858 Scotch, and 49,288 Irish.
And fragmentary reports of more recent date
suggest that the rush is growing. It is
announced by cable that last Saturday 4230
emigrants left the Clyde (Scotland) on
three ships for Canada and the United
States alone —both highly protected coun-
tries. Ships are constantly leaving the
Clyde and other Scotch ports for all man-
ner of countries, and this outpouring sug-
gests quite a rush. Scotland has a popula-
tion of between four and five millions, which
represents about 160 persons to the square
mile, and that is less than the pressure or
density of humanity in Austria, Belgium,
Denmark. France, Germany, Italy, Holland,
Switzerland, and various other countries.
On the general appearance of things Scot-
land shouldn’t -equire to get rid of its people
at quite such a strenuous rate. When over
4000 inhabitants flee in one day from one
port of one small country, all making for
two. Protectionist lands beyond the sea, things
begin to look busy.
“Southron” ’writes:—
Cabled that Premier Peake, in England, has pre-
sented a gold watch and chain to J. W. Billiet, one
of the four survivors of Stuart’s last expedition.
There might not be much in this, but for a tardy
announcement that the Government will provide
financially for all the survivors. Observe the con-
trast between the Burke and Wills muddle and
Stuart’s management. Stuart’s companions for the
last time (1861) were Auld, S. King, Heath, Nash,
McGorrerry and Billiet. It is remarkable, indeed,
that four survive, and Auld died only last year.
Stuart accompanied Sturt in the expedition of 1844-
5. In 1859 he notified that he was prepared to
undertake an expedition to the North to “open up
a line for rail and telegranhic communication with
England.” This was the third he had led. In
June, 1860, he got past the centre of the continent.
In May, 1861, he was afield for the fourth time.
Reached a point north of the southern extremity of
the Gulf of Carpentaria, where Burke and Wills had
b.een a few months earlier. You may think of
Amundsen and Scott. In this case, Burke, as the
Amundsen, met with the disaster. Stuart arrived
back in Adelaide in September, 1861. In about a
month his last expedition set forth. Reached the
North Coast, July, 1862 ; back in Adelaide, January,
1863.
Because some Labor men (with plenty of
justification) interpreted Irvine’s wholesale
condemnation of “doles from the Treasury,”
as meaning that, among other things, the
Berg is opposed to old age pensions, Agar
Wynne, Fusionist candidate for Balaclava,
was moved to whine that “this is nlaying
electioneering pretty low down.” Having
thus rebuked alleged unfair tactics, the im-
maculate Fusionist went on to state (Age,
25/4/T3) :
If the Referendum questions were carried, nation-
alisation would follow, and the Labor party might
then dictate as to what amusements a man must
attend and what woman a man must marry.
Where is Wynne’s sense of proportion?
Also, where are his beautiful political
ethics?
[Albert John Owen, 129 Grey-street, East Mel-
bourne. ]
Howling against the compulsory signing
of political matter during the stress of a
Federal election, the Argus (23/4/T3, the
day before the issue of writs) remarked: —
The correspondence columns of the press form a
medium through which electors may address each
other, often with most important results. But
when “Elector” and “Farmer” may not express
opinions or afford information on political issues
unless they sign their names and give their ad-
dresses, they will not write.
Precisely. It would never do to disclose the
fact that “Mallee Farmer,” “Disgusted
Unionist,” “Poor Typiste” and “Twice
Mother of Twins.” are one and the same
person, to wit a bloke employed on the staff
of the journal that prints the letters.
[Albert John Owen, 129 Grey-Street, East Mel-
bourne.]
N.S.W. politician Wade, the hero of Mt.
Kembla. has struck a netv line of opposition
to the Referendum, and begs the people not
to grant the increased powers to the Aus-
tralian Parliament because the Constitu-
tion is essentially rotten. Deakin begs the
people to refuse the powers because they
would destroy the symmetry of the most
perfect Constitution that was ever made,
and it is only 13 years old. Deakin him-
self had it amended long before it was 13
years old; but, of course, that merely in-
creased the already perfect symmetry. Cook
pleads on the same lines as Deakin at the
beginning of his speeches, but generally
admits about the middle, or when entering
the straight for the final peroration, so to
speak, that he is in favor of “reasonable
amendments.” What his reasonable amend-
ments are like no one apparently knows. No
pne has explained them. And as Cook him-
self has not explained them, he, presumably,
doesn’t know what they are like either. Any-
how, some of these gentlemen are wrong.
[C. A. Jeffries, Tiie Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Antony and Cleopatra.”
Her Majesty’s “Puss in Boots.”
Criterion “The Fortune Hunter.”
Palace “On Our Selection.”
Adelphi “Cowboy and Squaw.”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Little Theatre “Fanny’s First Play."
National Amphitheatre Brennan’s Vaudeville Co.
Alhambra Vaudeville.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric i
Colonial r Continuous Pictures.
Empress I
Crystal Palace. ....... Continuous Pictures, etc.
Glaciariu.m ( ... ~ ,
Olympia.' \ West s Pictures.
Imperial Roller Rink. Roller Skating.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s. “The Count of Luxembourg.”
Princess’s. “A Woman of Impulse.”
Kino’s “taust.”
Royal “Man and Superman.”
Opera House Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Bijou “The Speculators.”
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric, Prahran Photo Plays.
Majestic. Amalgamated Pictures.
Arcadia. St. Kilda The Dandies.
Athen.eum Hall mcoph McCabe.
» -
This show notice is contributed by a party
who is still at large:—
Mr. Bert Bailey, member for Pitt-street (Sydney),
addressed his constituents last night at the Palace
Theatre, and received a cordial hearing. Mr. Jules
Grant occupied the chair in the box office. The
candidate said there was too much water in demo-
cracy’s stock.
A voice: Hear, hear !
Mr. Bailey: A pity you didn’t take a little more
water, old man (loud laughter). He went on to
say that if the proposals of some people were
carried the business in which he was interested
would not be given a say in regulating its own
a flairs. (“Shame!”) A resident of Broken Hill
or Oodnadatta would be able to tell Mr. Duggan
to nationalise his magenta whiskers. (Uproar.) Also,
“Steele Rudd” would have to hand over his percent-
age of the takings of his successful enterprise to a
man who made a pair of boots at Bathurst.
A voice: Rats !
Mr. Bailey: No doubt my friend knows all about
rats, having been associated with some prominent
Liberals. (Cheers.) Continuing, Mr. Bailey said he
would sooner see the Old Age Pensions done away
with than accept milk of an Illawarra dairyman’s
cow in payment for a stalls seat. (Continued
applause.) He did not believe there were any
Trusts in Australia. Since the Bailey party had
been in power on the Palace treasury seats, the
populace had seen the advantages that" had accrued
to the pioneer settlers at Ruddville. He admitted
that money was no easier, but there had been no
fall in prices at the Palace. (Cheers.) No doubt
there had been an increase in the cost of living, and
he regretted this, as it interfered with business in
his electorate ( No, no!”) Let it be remembered
that the citizens had it in their power on election
day to regulate their domestic concerns so that they
might vote for the old ticket, Dad, Dave and Joe.
There was no compensation in surrendering their
(the citizens’) finances to other parties whom they
could not trust. (Cheers.)
On the motion of Mr. .Jules Grant a hearty vote
of four bob tickets was passed to Mr. Bailey.
[J. Beer, Counter Lunch Hotel, George Street,
Sydney. |
*•’ v V
The head or .skull of “Puss in Boots,” at
Her Majesty’s, Sydney, though worn and
dusty with honorable service, remains, in a
financial sense, unbowed. The vast panto.
®FII captain of its Violet Loraine; also
h leld-Marshal of its comic business and
Admiral of its chorus-girls. The writer was
about to dash oft a few Henleyesque verses
on the above lines when the editor coldly
requested him to desist, urging lack of space
and so forth.. We shall see if this somewhat
paltry objection holds good in a month or
so s time, when the show should still be go-
ing strong.
The weather forecast issued by the Cri-
terion is. as follows: A thunderstorm will
occur daily at 11 p.m. of a very local charac-
ter- One inch will fall in a few minutes,
? over the hero an d heroine proposing
in "Ihe Fortune Hunter,” but front stail-
holders need not bring their umbrellas. On
Wednesday and Saturday a similar local
thunderstorm will occur on the Criterion
stage at 5 p.m. There is no sign of clear
weather for weeks vet.
Crystal Palace touched the spot this week
with a trip through the Washington Govern-
ment I rinting Works. It’s the best way for
the man in the street to see just how his
morning penn’orth of news (and otherwise)
is supplied : and if some enterprising show
would take a film of the unfortunate sub-
editors manufacturing copy, and, at the
same time, refusing to give five separate
individuals 3d. apiece, with which to buv
beer for a dying child, the show would be
complete. ’A Woman’s Wit,” introducing a
she-detective sliding down a clothes line
trom a top storey, was the best thing in the
way of the everyday picture.
The Woman Who Pays begs to remind
the public that after to-morrow night she
will not be held responsible for any murders
or smcules that occur at the Adelphi. The
whole of the blame thenceforward will be
shoved on to "The Cowboy and the Squaw ”
a United States bellowdrama that sounds
intensely moving-picfuresoue.
The Tivoli has brightened up wonderfully
this week, and the programme shows no
fewer than five new turns. O’Hana San is
undoubtedly the star, not so much for her
acting as for the gorgeous color effects ob-
tained. No color scheme yet attempted
within the memory of the oldest inhabitant
has come within miles of it. The other new-
comers are the Be Bruns, a pair of very
clever dancers of the drawing-room variety ;
Osborn and Brookes, chiefly noticeable on
account of the male partner’s fine imperson-
ation of a somewhat over-gymnastic drunk ;
Miss Kitty Dale, a pantomime “boy,” suc-
cessfully transplanted on to the vaudeville
stage; and George Whitehead, a baritone of
no despicable grade. Among older
identities the Jackson family of cyclists
is still doing its best to break its
collective neck. Harry Corson Clarke
and Margaret Dale Owen have only
two more nights in which to cause the public -
to burst its corset with mirth. Cummin
and Seaham are getting encouraging re-
sponse. to their invitation, and Nella Webb
is again, for the very manytb time, in her
last nights. The loudest noise next week
will be made by Tiebor’s educated seals and
sea lions.
The Antony-Cleopatra scandal, which
lately shocked Egyptian and Roman society,
is being shown up nightly by the right-
thinking Asche-Brayton co., at Sydney
Royal. The late Mr. William Shakspeare’s
careful shorthand report of the case has been
artistically illustrated in color by Mr. Oscar
Asche, and, though many come just to look
at the pictures, quite a lot of people are not
above taking notice of Mr. Shakspeare’s part
of the work.
The amusement provided at the National
Amphitheatre continues to be up to the
standard set at that centre of gaiety. The
Bulletin’s grief at the loss of Paul Gor-
den, the drunken wire-walker, is somewhat
mitigated by the continued remarkableness
of Mysterious Mik, the canine mental tele-
pathist. That gallant hound knows almost
as much as the entire Wi in men’s Political
League, with the difference that it sticks to
the truth. The comedy sketches of the
Quealys are also reminiscent of the W.P.L.
In fact, comparing the National with the
Wimmen’s League, they both reach the
high-water mark of hilarity.
Oscar-r-r-r Asche in his glory. As Autiny
he displays his genius for throat squeezing.
The suffering lady is Cleopatra (Lily Bray ton )
"The Man on the Box,” who has been
driving furiously for six weeks, finishes his
golden gallop at the Little Theatre (Syd-
ney), on Saturday, May 3. The new stage
venture has thus put up something like a
record run for its class at the very begin-
ning of its career. The second L.T. pro-
duction, Bernard Shaw’s "Fanny’s First
Flay,” will he jstaged for the first time on
Monday. May 5. The brilliant comedy has
a record of 600 nights in London, and has
passed the 365th night in New York; it
should, therefore, draw Sydney like an
ocean tug to the playhouse next to the Cen-
tral Fire Station.
=:• * * *
\ ariety is particularly strong in Adelaide
just now. Perhaps the most appealing turn
at the Tivoli is that in which the Maxini
brothers are supported by their astonishingly
clever dog; but Renee, Poluski. Be Marlow
and Rosie Lloyd all encore heavily, and
George Bryant’s little co. obliges with tab-
loid plays. King and Thornton do the same
at the King’s, where also are “Foolish Ford”
(who is), Hyman and Alton, Francis and
Volta, and Electra. (The two last-named
surely ought to be a pair?) At the Royal
is fine acting by Anderson’s co. —Mack'av,
Redgrave and other clever people—in Ameri-
can melo., which is, at any rate, better than
the English sort. "Tokio Town” has made a
highly successful Australian start at the Ex-
hibition. Wondergraph scores with a quaint
combination of bull-fight and South Pole
films. And there have been two „ ,
amateur renderings of '‘Lady w7mW PU ‘ ai '
Fan,” for charities. It if inr
criticise on ordinary lines a sh .w S ~t o
kind, where social calibre goes for Zok tk
stage experience, and many of tbl , u
players have as a fact done no previoni 7 Cky
of the kind. It is enough to
experienced did all that was I
them, and the others did a good deal 1 ° f
than was dreaded of them. The whole H? ?re
—especially on the second night-wen? UDg .
unexpectedly well And the Locking in t °he
as aDr^am? 11 " 18 deSmbed by hi gh authority
** * *
Joseph McCabe, the straight, spare, sckol
arly man in spectacles, got a welcome Thu
even a popufor science lecturer might £
proud of, from a crowded audience at Men,
Athenaeum Hall last Saturday. Ifo
-come to start a series of illustrated dk
courses with his own particular story of T if
on the Earth, an interesting structure of ref
sonable theories, based on fossil facts Q „,
pillared with the bones of reptiles 3Uft W
which ate every digestible thing that'camp
their way until their food supply developed
means of escape. Then, apparently thev
got stuck in the mud of millions of years
ago. McCabe keeps one interested with the
magnitude of his geological figures, and the
matter as well as the manner of his lecture
He taiks most fluently, his elocution is good'
and his word pictures have notes of humormw
color m them. The moral of the tale in
question, and of all such tales, is that I're
liner John Weary is a true child of Nature
seeing that Nature for 50 or 60 million years
has refused to hustle. It has been personal v
a slow-going concern, leaving its eccentric
products to please themselves and form their
own notions of time and space. Doubtless
there is a broad grin on the face of Nature
when Joseph McCabe looks at his watch and
gives himself a minute and a half to catch
the next train. He will continue his course
of lectures into next week. To-night (Thurs
day) he arrives at “The Romance of Aus-
tralia,” which gives no heed to dallyings on
the seashore or on the benches in the park
Po-morrow night he speaks of “Life in Other
\Y orlds.
The dainty wickedness of Vivian Talleur’s
danse d’acrobatique (new word) remains the
most joyous feature of “The Count of Luxem-
bourg” frivol at Her Majesty’s (Melbourne).
Comedian Phil Smith, having moderated his
chuckle, and lost his first-night anxiety, im-
proves on acquaintance, especially in his
method of putting on “swank.” Also, the
waltz music has taken root in the top-soil of
popular estimation. But the manoeuvres and
the smile of the pink-limbed lady aforesaid
are the most memorable events of the enter-
tainment.
* $ Hs *
Mephistopheles has one more week, wherein
to repeat his familiar contract with Faust
at the King’s. Each time this paper has wit-
nessed the retirement of that rejuvenated
philosopher into the shades and vapors of
Gehenna, something went Wrong with the
workings of perdition. The outer shades got
caught on their rollers, and the curtain
came down in a hurry ere the award of Sin’s
wages board could be fully enforced. But
Marguerite _ started her upward journey
without a hitch. How long she would be in
reaching her destination Heaven only could
say. Probably a billion years, unless the
four angels decide to flap their pinions and
put on a spurt.
Two weeks of “Dr. Wake’s Patient,” at
the Princess’s, will close on Friday. The
comedy seems to have suffered considerably
by its re-setting since it was first produced
on the same stage. The bucolic barbarism
of ()kl Man Wake was always inconsistent
with his. allegation that his farm had been in
the family for nigh on three ’underd year,
but when, of yore, he visited the marine
hotel to confer his rugged blessing on his
son’s future bride, he never got further than
the terrace in his quest for the place where
he could buy a pint o’ ale. In the present
revival the third act scene is an interior,
therefore the fatuous yeoman has to hurl
his comments upon the “swattiness” of the
day right into the centre of the room where
the quality are seated. The falseness of
\\ ake’s vulgarity, and the impossible crude-
ness of his missus, are more apparent than
ever. The art of Titheradge, Mrs. Brough,
Sty an and Sydney Stirling cannot save the
situation. Saturday’s bill should be more
attractive, than the revival of “Wake.”
Plimmer is producing “A Woman of Im-
pulse,” for the first time in Melbourne.
. "The Grafters” are to devote the last 12
nights of their remarkable season at the
BiiO'U to another American comedy-vaude-
ville (or vice versa), entitled “The Specu-
lators.” and. stated to he a screamer. The
scream begins on Saturday. Next week
it will have scrome, and this paper will be
in a position to report on it.
❖❖ $ #
At Melbourne Royal the end of "Mile-
stones” is fixed for Friday, and “Man and
Superman” will get its first non-Repertory
theatre presentation on Saturday. The
Melbourne supply of the sixpenny edition of
Shaw s plav was exhausted a while ago, so
F is probable that Julius Knight’s John
Tanner and Irene Brown’s Ann Whitfield


ENGLAND’S Latest Light Car.
STONELEIGH
Weight of
Chassis, llcwt.
• - V
SHent Knight Daimler Engine. Detachable Wire Wheels, Worm
SUNSHINE Motor Cars P’t’y, Melbourne!
HUGH V. McKAY, Sydney fa Adelaide!
f Agents.
YG
OOORD &, So N
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
%
DT
SWIFT &- COMPANY . AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS. O'CONNELL SYDNEY -
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
.*,■ - _ _
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
Victorian Branch: 50 Queen Street, Melbourne. D!** P if’ K CVIMIDV
S. J. FOWLER, Manager. "ltt 6 filing SIDNEY.
FIRE ACCIDENT. EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc.
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
’Phone No. 236 Central.
G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
NABOB BOOT PASTE
Economical, Brilliant, Waterproof, Easily Applied.
Manufactured by LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney. [B
will be confronted by an intelligently critical
crowd on the first night. Anyhow, the Re-
pertory crowd, _ whose intelligence is some-
what biased, will be there in strong force.
. Spencer gave another lesson in ancient
history at Melbourne Olympia on Saturday,
when he starred "Theodora,” the narrative
of a conspiracy containing much inclement
passion and a great deal of gladiatorial
stoush A fable of a wicked Rajah was
‘the Romance of a ’Rickshaw"; while
"Ann” related the upheaval of a flapper
against Bible reading and pious observances
on the Sabbath Day. In the way of in-
structive matter a tour in Hungary revealed
some beauty spots in a land where the lan-
guage sounds like a mixture of sneezes and
grunts.
Madge Temple is Melbourne’s latest ex-
cuse for holding down a seat at the
Opera House. Madge is hardly an innova-
tion as a warbler, but with some smart hats
and frocks she succeeds in enhancing the
effect of a personality that is all the better
for them, and might be w T orse without them.
Bar Taylor and Arnold, Henri French, and
the quaint Charles Zoli, the only other popu-
lar figures are Reynard and Rosella, respect-
ively labelled as “dramatic baritone” and
"Italian harpist.” Miss Rosella doesn’t
harp the way this writer harps, nor does
she harp as a lot of his friends harp. But
it must be said for Reynard that, apart from
his expressive singing, his obvious pleasure
in his own singing is a gladdening circum-
stance and an event that can’t be safely
overlooked.
A persistent traveller on the screen at the
P’ran Lyric (Vic.), last week, was “The
Prisoner of War,” a Turko-Bulgarian battle
yarn, strongly suffused with bellowdrama.
and so laden with the dead and dismembered
that the film looked like an impressionist
view of a slaughter-house. “The Devil’s
Daughter,” a three-reel drama, also occupied
the _ attention of Lyric inhabitants. And
comics like “All on Account of a Transfer”
and “Playing His Master Card,” aroused the
loud laugh that sometimes shows the vacant
mind, and sometimes only reveals that sensa-
tion of emptiness in the stomach before
meals. so frequently alluded to in the patent
medicine advertisement.
The burglar-man who is said to have
got away with valuables from 24 Mel-
oourne suburban homes fell into the hands
of the police last week. It happened this
way. A matron, whilst gazing casually at
the weather, chanced to see a strange man
prowl from the front to the back of Mr.
Michaelis’s house, on the opposite side of
the road. Knowing the hou«e to be unpro-
tected at the time, and noting that the
prowler was a long time about his visit, she
mentioned her suspicions to her husband, a
contractor, engaged on a contract near by.
This active and intelligent citizen jumped
into his buggy, called one of his workmen
from the job to bear him company, and
drove away to make an arrest. Having
caught the astonished prowler, he (the con-
tractor) lifted him bodily into the buggy
and sat on him, whilst the workman
whipped up the horse. A policeman was
sighted and the contractor handed his cap-
tive over to the man in blue. The
indignant prowler’s pockets were stuffed
with jewellery. Later, details of two
dozen other robberies were found at
his domicile, for he was a married
man, who always took home his lootings to
his w T ife. Then the police communicated
the result of their remarkable vigilance to
the newspaper, and the contractor returned
to his own private business. Thus far
there has been no talk of presenting him
with a medal or an illuminated address.
Any rewards offered for the restoration of
lost property by the 24 householders afore-
mentioned will presumably be the perquisites
of the constable to w 7 hom the robber was
handed over.
The old gag was bound to turn up again
on the anniversary of the landing of Cook
at Kurnell. So Sydney Telegraph came
out on Saturday with e picture of a
house in London described as “88 Mile End-
road, once the home of the discoverer of
Australia.” Apparently it can’t be driven
into the intelligence of the Sydney daily
press, even with an axe, that Australia was
discovered at least 200 years before .Tames
Cook happened along these shores, and that
its coast was mostly mapped, and most of its
capes and bays were named, and the whole
blessed continent was annexed and called
New Holland. Apparently the ignorance of
the daily publication is incurable.
For the first time in its quaint history, the
Tasmanian Assembly met the other day and
chose its new 7 Speaker without a preliminary
informal meeting of members to do the actual
selecting. On this occasion there was really
no need to invite members of the Opposition
to assist in the selection, as the appointment
of ex-I’remier Evans was fixed up by the
Government caucus tw 7 o months ago. As
no Ministerial follower had died or fallen
downstairs, or ratted from his party since
the caucus meeting, the ignoring of the
ancient custom was quite safe. Octogenarian
Jonathan Best who, The Bulletin is sorry
to hear, is not in the best of health, dropped
into his old billet as chairman of com-
mittees.
The Tokyo Puck (Japan), in a recent
issue, broke forth into a prophetic map of
the world. It showed the British Empire
reduced to the British islands, India and
Canada. All Bull’s African possessions had
become a black republic. Australia, Maori-
land, Fiji, the East Indies, and a great area
in Manchuria were Japanese. Persia had
been annexed by the Russians. A footnote
declared that the world would presently be
divided up thus: (1) Japan; (2) England;
(3) United States; (4) China; (5) Mada-
gascar (set apart as a sanatorium for tuber-
culous patients) ; (6) Black African Re-
public; (7) South American Republic; (8)
France; (9) Austria; (10) Russia; (11)
Italy; (12) Germany. And the name of
all the rest was Mud.
Unless there is a general increase of fares
and freights the N.S.W. railways will ap-
parently be back this year to the old bank-
rupt situation. In 1910 they paid working
expenses and interest on the dreadful lOU,
and supplied £522,000 odd towards wiping
off the dead shortage of past ages. In 1911
the profit was £553,000. In 1912 it was
down to £415,000. In 1013 (the financial
year closes on June 30), the great N.S.W.
railway system is expected to keep out of
the Benevolent Asylum with difficulty. Be-
cause of the foolishness and wickedness of
past and present politicians, who used the
land sale money as revenue instead of apply-
ing it to public works, the Cornstalk’s 4ft.
84in. way totters under an interest bill of
about £2,000.000 per annum. But for that
iniquity every railway servant might get 10
per cent, put on his wages, and the fares
might be reduced about 15 per cent, all
round, and there might even then be enough
left to pay for an heroic burst of turkey and
small beer at Christmas.
Charlie Albert
as the
Registrar.
“the count of
LUXEMBOURG ,”
HER MAJESTYS,
MELBOURNE.
The Grand Duke
(IV. S. Perry).
A traveller’s note from the sea :
It was a fine misty morning, when the north-
bound inter-State boat approached the harbor that is
watched over by a tall, white lighthouse on a high,
carven cliff. “You could put the biggest navy in
the world in there and lose it,” said the man who
knew 7 , and he indicated the wide, blue entrance and
the misty, mountain-backed harbor vistas. And the
leisurely steamer did not deviate, but churned stead-
ily on • its course, for the grand harbor was not
populous Port Jackson, but merely deserted Jervis
Bay—the poor, grass-green relation of the bloated
capital, where the ends of the political strings are
held and the railways planned, and the rates fixed.
“Only 87 miles from Sydney now,” said the im-
patient passengers, as the fleet-swallowing harbor
and its sentinel lighthouse slowly faded astern. A
stranger looking at that deserted inlet would never
' have guessed that he was within coo-ee of the
alleged commercial centre of the State. The only
visible improvement since Cook blew past is the tall,
white lighthouse, whose principal purpose is to
light the Sydney boats south and the Melbourne
boats north. Now and then it serves to guide a few
war craft that want a nice, deserted stretch of
water for shot practice. Otherwise it just shines on
high and holds its lamp to the coastal procession.
As the inter-State boat approached Sydney, the
smoke of ships began to show up on every hand.
Off the entrance, tugs strained in front of wallowing
barges full of Sydney silt, and a dredge was ob-
served making off for one of the wretched little bar
harbors. Then the liner, with a sharp turn, got two
marks in line, and steamed cautiously in under
North Head. Another quick turn and it zig-zagged
across the entrance towards South Head, and edged in
between the white pile light and the shore. From
that point onward it walked carefully up the narrow
harbor, passing so close to shore that, here and
there, anyone on board could have thrown a biscuit
or a loaf of bread ashore, or heaved the ship’s cat
into a tree. Extreme care was needed to avoid ram-
ming the wooden ferries about the Quay, while a
great amount of caution had to be observed at the
crowded Darling Harbor corner. (Darling Harbor
is kept crowded by the ships that have to wait in
that marine blind ‘ alley for the cargoes thov really
should pick up in the deserted ports.) While the
tugs took hold fore and aft, and began the weari-
some evolutions necessary for getting the newly-
arrived ship to its dusty berth, one remembered sadly
the beautifully spacious harbor sleeping in the morn-
ing sun 87 miles to the southward. I don’t know
which is the more doleful sight—deserted Jervis
Bay, or the hideously crowded Waverley graveyard
on the sloping ocean cliff. Both mistakes are worthy
of the Ma State.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Y.Z.”: Fred B. Smith, Raymond Robins and
party have crashed through Melbourne with their
“Men and Religion Forward Movement,” and the
echoes of their onward rush are now dying down in
the distance. Curiosity drove me into one of their
“men’s meetings” in a Collins-street church, and I
found the edifice packed with parsons. Every imag-
inable kind of parson was represented, from the
tomtit curate to the sonorous, reverend brahmapoo-
tra, but common clay was scarce. You could only
pick out a small, cheap sheep here and there, dotting
the great waste of pasturage. I understood now how
Fred B. Smith, Raymond Robins and party pulled
their audiences. They have a reputation as great
movers of men and expeditious sin-shifters, and all
the pastors and spiritual masters dropped in on them
to see how it was done, and to pick up points. The
attraction was purely a shop interest, such as axe-
men display when a champion chopper is lowering a
record, or the kind that draws swarms of bricklayers
to see an expert brickie slapping mortor against time.
The plate was full of threepenny-bits.
“One Who Pays”: “Dr. Wake’s Patient,” in Mel-
bourne, is decent debility, made tolerable by good
people. Just a Brough is needed. Otherwise—but
v hat an otherwise! —the company is better than
Brough ever had. He never had such a good jeune
premier as Roberts, who really has charm. Maybe
as much as anyone on the stage, now that Alexander
is a trifle in the sere and yellow. Roberts was nearly
as good as Brough as the Jonathan Wild of “Little
Jack Sheppard,” and what a capital Svengali he
was in the burlesque “Trilby.” Cecil Ward was
nowhere beside him for leading juvenile, yet he was
prettv good in such diverse things as Napoleon, Tom
Dossiter, in “Harbor Lights,” and the Little Minis-
ter. Brough’s company was a gifted family. There
ivere Mr. and Mrs. Bob, Bob’s mother (though no-
body would believe it), Mrs. Bob’s sister (the ever-
excellent Emma), Bob’s half-sister, and also Miss
Major of the clan. It pleased me to notice that Mrs.
Brough got the biggest receotion in “Dr. Wake's
Patient,” though the public was also genial to Beatrice
Day, Titheradge, Roberts, Plimmer, Styan and Lizette
Pa rises.
“Harrison O.” : Can any Abo. naturalist or Poverty
Point physiologist inform me of what use .wings are
to angels ? I am induced to ask the question
through having just seen four of these interesting
birds, in “Faust,” who move upward through the
ether without so much as twitching a wing. I have
met. many stage angels in my time —black-haired,
gold-haired and red-haired, single and married (at
any rate, they wore wedding rings), slim and embon-
point—but not one moved her wings when flying.
I regard my inquiry as of profound scientific and
spiritual importance, and would give at least tup-
pence for a satisfactory answer.
“Harrison O.” : Since Celia Ghiloni apparently has
not got a kind friend willing to mention the matter,
I fain would whisper to her that Art, even in mus : Qal
comedy, should rank before grease paint. Celia’s
persistent refusal to bring her good looks into line
with her embonpoint when playing elderly or un-
beautiful characters, has marred several of her re-
cent performances. In the “Sinbad” panto, she made
the shrewish old maid, Princess Fatima, a beauteous
houri. As Aurelia, the “flirtatious old dame” of
“The Chocolate Soldier,” Celia was 30 years too
young and 45 years too lovely. Now, in “The
Count of Luxembourg,” as an amorous countess who
pursues an elderly grand duke with her unwelcome
affection, the actress once again presents a heavenly
creature, from whom no disrespectable grand duke
would dream of flying; although it is obvious that
the author intends the part to be played on the lines
of Katisha, the old Kat in “The Mikado.”
The theatre position in Adelaide now works put
thus: The Royal keeps a monopoly of drama, Wil-
liamson having given up his scheme for a great build-
ing on North Terrace, though the land was actually
bought, and secured first claim on the Royal itself.
And the big, unfinished Princess, in Grote-street —
a central but hitherto quite unfashionable location —
has been secured by Hugh Mclntosh, so that Hie old
Rickards’ business will presently be removed there
from the Tivoli. (It will take the old iivon name
with it.) Meanwhile, Ben Fuller, who runs the
Brennan circuit at the new King’s, has secured a
long lease of the Tivoli itself when Mclntosh gives it
up, and promises to rebuild it, so that it wil be
available for drama if required.
“Locust”: Re the Smythe birthday. R. S.
Much-Travelled Smythe, now 80, was the most adroit
press agent that ever travelled Australia. Being
originally a pressman, he probably had the publicity
instinct. As an example of his methods: I was
“printer” of a small daily paper in North Queens-
land 20 years ago. One night, about 11 p.m. when
I was “locking up” the early pages, and was vali-
antly hammering quoins into the chases before send-
ing the early formes to press, I was confronted by
a charming gentleman, immaculately dressed, who
inquired if I was Mr. Locust. With my apron I
wiped away the sweat which obscured my vision, and
admitted I was. He gave me his card, and, of
course, I knew him right away, and was greatly
honored. He said, “Have you been to my show
yet?” (It was Miss Finkelstein lecturing about
Jerusalem to the early Wowsers of Australia.) I
confessed I hadn’t. Saturday was my only spare
evening, and I had a permanent engagement for that
night. Being a deep man of the world, he asked
would I accept a pass for two, and that, I con-
fessed, overcame my difficulty about the engagement.
Before going, I was able to assure him (1) that
all the paragraphs sent in had been scattered in
advantageous positions in the literary columns; (2)
that his advt. would appear right at the top of
the front page with white space above and below
(I felt sorry I could not stick it in the middle of
the leading article for his sake) ; and (3) that I
would confer the honor upon him (that was the
impression he gave to the transaction) of coming
on Saturday night. That was the beginning of a
friendship which has continued ever since; for R. S.
Smythe never forgot a man, unlike most showmen,
whose peculiar memories only allow 7 them to recol-
lect men when they arrive at the town where such
men are influential, or likely to be useful. Carlyle,
the Not-Quite-So-Much-Travelled, has inherited his
father’s admirable qualities, and, in addition, thanks
to his training for the special task, has a handy
knowledge of foreign languages, and can write. His
articles on Germany in the S. M. Herald recently
were extremely interesting and finely written, and his
reminiscences of Mark Twain in Life were the real
goods.
How has the Incorporated Stage Society succeeded
in persuading the British censor to license Schnitzler’s
plays? Two Schnitzler plays have been presented at
the Aldwych Theatre, London. Schnitzler is an Aus-
trian, and is the dramatist of the tart. He favors
the one-act play, and it is always blue. In “The
Comtesse Mizzi” the whole atmosphere is one of
decadence, and every character is thoroughly if ami-
ably immoral, and airs his sins as a Wowser adver-
tises bis virtue. Schnitzler w'orks the demi-monde
for all it is w 7 orth, and the censor who has permitted
“Comtesse Mizzi” cannot reasonably buck at any-
thing an Englishman is likely to do.
“8.J.”: Gilbert Parker dramatised “Faust” some
time before he allowed a knighthood to be foisted
upon him, and he makes his devil claim to have
invented titles. “I make more money by titles now
than I used to,” says Mephistopheles, “and I make
them cheaper, too.”
Ellen Terry, Henry Irving’s long-time leading lauy,
having nothing to do in the acting line nowadays,
has written —or, at least, signed—a preface to a
book on “The Russian Ballet.” Russian dancers have
been the rage in London during the last few years,
and they have drawn huge crow T ds at Covent Gar-
dens, the Coliseum, the Palace, the Hippodrome and
elsewhere. The article with Ellen’s name appended
deplores that “the dance should have almost every-
where degenerated into something base and trivial,
while its children Music and Poetrv have preserved
their dignity and beauty.” It considers this strange,
having regard for the fact that dancing apparently
had its origin in religion. We know from the Bible
that it entered largely into the pious ceremonies, of
the Jews, and there is evidence that the practice Was
continued ampmr the early Christians. Ellen alleges
that “on feast davs, the honor of leading the dancers
was reserved for the Bishop.” A Bishop caught
dancing in church at the present day would be torn
to fragments by the churchwardens and his remains
would he scoffed at by pale curates.
(Continued on page 30.)
Those State politicians who call themselves
“Liberal” are so in at least one respect—as
regards the burden they reckon their fellow
man should carry. The Australian Parlia-
ment did its best when it prohibited the im-
portation of anything bigger than the 2001 b.
“Chapman sack”—Chapman, by the way,
called himself a Protectionist, not a “Lib-
eral.” But for want of sufficient power it
couldn’t prevent the local manufacture of the
sack which is like the great cave of Jenolan,
and some of the State Governments and State
railway commissioners have given it very
little assistance. In Victoria especially, the
ex-Tait railways still drag 3001 b. and 3501 b.
bags of barley down from the Western Dis-
trict. And when a man starts to carry a
3501 b. bag. the weight of it is liberal enough
for anybody. There is no Protection to the
lumper’s back about that.
A MID-YEAR RESOLUTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I was uplifted by the glad New Year,
And all the kindly wishes of my friends;
I felt as some young god who turns his clear
Unwrinkled forehead to the sky that bends
Above him, full of planets he may wear,
Or stars that he may use to comb his hair.
Such exaltation was a little due
To liquid extracts from tall bottles drawn,
And small peculiar dreams that two and two
Walked through my pleasant slumbers at the
dawn ;
I pause not to explain, but simply state
The New Year started, and I felt elate.
It was the time, as all good Christians know,
When pagan persons should attempt to turn
A brand new leaf, and resolutely show
What kindling ardor in their breasts can burn
By making resolutions large and firm
Whose aftermath may set their souls a-squirm.
I had already walked the bitter way
That erring human kind perforce must choose;
My heart had known of faithless vows that lay
Like broken glass up-ended in my shoes,
And yet I made some new resolves and vain—
Made them, and let them go to smash again.
Now, the new year has grown to middle age,
The times of riot past, the wishes few,
I view the situation as a sage,
And know exactly what I mean to do ;
Rich with much sad experience I am bold
To make one resolution as of old.
I will not pledge myself to never talk
To men of Belial in the pleasant way
(Alas, their conversation and their walk
Are godless, but such people often pay
For drinks. And why should such as I eschew
Their observations when my coins are few ?)
I will not say that, should the time agree,
Some evening when the warm sun westward dips,
If some nice girl is sitting on my knee,
I will not kiss the redness of her lips ;
For who may hope forgiveness for his past
Who proves a swine when gods their girl-pearls cast ?
I will not swear to always pay each debt
Exactly at the moment it is due;
I will not undertake to scorn the wet,
Brown influence of things that brewers brew ;
I will not absolutely undertake
To tell no happy lie for love’s sweet sake.
But one firm resolution I will make
Here at the ripening of another year,
I swear it by the brimstone of that lake
Where falls not any rain or dew or beer,
1 nail not, while the heavens and earth shall stand,
Give one brown copper to the German Band.
N.s.w.
PAT O’MAORI.


DAVID JONES’
CAMBRIC COAT SHIRT
Price 6/6
The latest in Men’s Wear—THE COAT SHIRT. This
new style of shirt is fast becoming popular by reason of
the easiness with which it is slipped on and off.
As the name implies, it is put on the same as a coat,
and buttons down the front as shown in illustration.
Well cut, and made of David Jones’ Special Value
Striped Cambric—White grounds with Black or Blue
-.Stripes—lmproved Narrow Cuffs —slightly extended
skirt —Sizes 144 to 17 neckband. Remarkable
Value 6/6
David Jones Pay Carriage.
DAVID JONES. LTD.,
Opp, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
if
.
m
Kug'elmann’s
Pure Herbal
SKin Soap.
“Beauty’s Aid."
Free Sample sent on Receipt oi
Twopenny Stamp.
Kugelmann’s Pure Herbal Skin Soap may be ob-
tained at all Chemists, Drapers and Storekeeper
throughout Australasia, at 2/6 per box of three larg
tablets. If not obtainable locally, send Postal Not
or Stamps of any State, to the value of 3/- (memo-
ing postage), when box will be posted per retur
mail.
Sole Proprietors:
H. E. KUGELHANN & CO.,
Wholesale Druggists and Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen Street, MELBOURNE;’' P tt Street,
SYDNEY; and at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
Society
PENFOLDS
WINES
“Melb ”: There could not be a better
Judge to try Chia. the man who shot the
Chinese Consul-General, than the matter-of-
fact Hood. It was amusing to hear Theo-
philus De Verdon, witness to character, ex-
patiate on the glowing speeches at the wed-
ding. Hood: “Did you ever know a wedding
where it was otherwise?” Counsel said Chia
acted under mad impulse. Hood: “Are,
you putting up a defence of insanitv?” Coun-
sel : “Oh, no. Absolute ruin is now the lot
of Chia. Ruin, too, in his domestic life, for
his wife has left him.” Hood : “Don’t'you
think she had something to complain about?”
It is easy to imagine an emotional Judge in
Hood’s place, such as —well, never mind.
What a lovely opportunity for eloquence!
Hood missed it all. Thomas Jones Chia
(odd mixture of names) was born in China.
Educated at St. Peter’s College, Cambridge,
afterwards at Nanking. Then a Professor
of English Literature in China. Next
Chief Secretary to the Consular office in
Paris. Then Professor of English in Pekin
IN THE CLASSIC FUTURE.
SHE: “Oh, Harold, there's mother. Ido hope
she doesn’t see us.”
HE : “So do I, my love; she’s my dressmaker.”
Man rises in the morning and puts on his
new biled rag. He goes out and hustles for
i,:„ Kilod rno-
money, and thereby crumples his bed g.
And at night he sends his biled rag to the
wash and goes to bed, and at the end of the
week he gets the wash bill. — The stipendiary
pessimist
“0.K.”: Methinks I have discovered the
original author of all the In Memoriam
verses that have appeared with varying al-
terations and combinations in the Australian
press for the past 30 years and more. My
suspicion falls on George C. Beattie, whose
Moral and Religious Poems were published
(clothed boards and gilt edges) by Sands
and McDougall, Melb., in 1889. On page 7
the poet mourns the loss of his mother: —
Shall I my mother never again see?
Who in infancy fondly cared for me,
And strove tenderly to please my fancy;
Who in life’s young days taught me to be good ;
And after rose the bright morn of manhood.
The thought we’ll meet in Heaven shall not beguile,
In Heaven what glories around us shall smile!
Page 77 is sacred to the memory of little
Hannah :
My beloved child, youngest of all
Of my daughters, eight in number ;
You came to us, but soon left us all
For the land where there’s no night, no slumber ;
You remained only a few years,
Then left us suddenly in tears.
On page 20 I find: —
She left this world to reign above
In her Redeemer’s Kingdom of love,
Where no impurity is found,
Where all’s that pure and holy abound.
On page 00 the bard remembers his deceased
wife: —
Oh, how often I look back into the past,
And think of her who was my wife and friend,
Who with me left her own dear, native land,
And brother and sister and parents’ home.
The foregoing quotations from George Craw-
ford Beattie seem to bear the hall-mark of
what is called “obituary verse,” therefore I
reckon that the old man was the legitimate
parent of the school of poetry which is paid
for by the inch under “Deaths” and “In
Memoriam” headings. I say old man ad-
visedly, because a photo of G.C.B. as a long-
bearded ancient is gummed on the back of the
title page, facing the index. The titles of
the poems are indexed alphabetically, and
there are about 200 in all. Although the first
one is entitled “The Christian Race” and the
opening lines are
O why! O why not run the Christian race?
In it can you nothing attractive trace?
the book is absolutely destitute of sporting
spirit, or even sportive mood. In rhyme or
in blank verse the author was equally
serious. He joked not, neither did he smile.
And when he had a point to make he drove it
into the reader’s understanding with relent-
less tautology. As, for instance, in “The
Lonely Cave” (page 186) :
This lonely cave doth with its excellent water
Supply all those who come to it for water,
All those who come to it for water can be
Supplied, for it has always enough for all
In all seasons. Our lonely home in this lone bush
Is supplied with its pure cold water.
You’ll highly value excellent water
Such as the'water of this lonely cave.
Among the amazing nroducts of Australia
the hook of Beattie, published by Sands and
McDougall (Melb.) only 24 years ago, has a
place of its own. The old man had been do-
ing this sort of thing for at least 40 years
before he collected his stuff, and it was prob-
ably his habit of supplying bereaved friends
and acquaintances with metrical expressions
of grief that set the fashion in newspaper
advt. columns.
“Moa”: I believe there is a
society in Sydney for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals,
but wouldn’t bet on it, because
want of funds or native mod-
esty or something makes it so
persistently hide its light under
a bushel that no one seems to
know, with any certainty,
whether it exists or not. As-
suming that it does, why doesn’t
it send an official to make the
round of the shops where live
birds are on sale? I pass every
morning one of these shops, and
have often noticed dozens of
wretched fowls cooped up in
small cages, each cage contain-
ing about three times as many
chooks as it ought to hold.
During the sweltering days of
summer it was pitiable to see
the miserable creatures packed
like figs in a box. and almost
unable to turn their heads. The
weather is cooler now, but a
good deal of wholly unneces-
sary suffering continues to be
inflicted. And the same state
of things exists all over Syd-
ney. Imagine two or three
days, or a week, of this kind of tor-
ture, and then say whether the people who
send hymn-books and moral pockey-hankies
to the heathen in his blindness might not be
better employed.
* * * *
“Uomo Delinquente”:—
The N. S. Wales Justice Department is investigat-
ing a row that occurred in Darlinghurst (Sydney)
Gaol the other day. It was the aftermath of a
concert given by the Prisoners’ Aid Society. When
the entertainment ended, the prisoners, according to
the officials, “went quite mad.” They screamed,
stamped and used language that would have startled
the Legislative Ass. itself. Why investigate ? Pris-
oners have an ineradicable tendency to act in this
A MATTER OF ETIQUETTE.
MARTHA JANE: “This it the third time e’s parsed me. I suppose 'c don't like to speak
wiyout a hintroduction."
wav. It is most noticeable in women’s gaols. In
such institutions any deviation from the normal
routine is practically certain to produce a riot.ij I
heard of a London gaol where everything went on
oiled wheels for weeks. Then some carol-singers got
to work outside, and the music penetrated to the
confinees. A riot started that transformed the place
into the semblance of a mad-house. The prisoners
howled wildly within their several cells, beat their
tin cans together, and cursed for hours at a time.
A number of them had fits ultimately. Scores, were
found on the floors of their cells, semi-unconscious
from fatigue. In most intelligently-conducted men’s
gaols the practice of showing women over the build-
ings has been discontinued. Five times out of «ix—
more especially in the prisons which boast a goodly
collection of long sentencers —the after effect is
disastrous. The men begin by being sullen and
defiant, and end by going demented. The desire to
make a loud, purposeless noise runs through the
gaol like a bush fire, on these occasions. The most
stolid and well-behaved are affected, and nothing can
be done to stop them. The psychology of it has
never been satisfactorily demonstrated. Broadly
speaking, it is assumed that the solitude and the
silence get on the nerves of those concerned to such
an extent that, on the least provocation, they are
ready to scream. But certain orders of nuns live all
their lives under even more trying conditions, and
never make a fuss about it. Possibly the criminal
temperament is exceptionally neurotie and high-
strung. Anyhow, concerts and such-like are bad for
it. These well-intentioned entertainments don’t even
add to the general happiness of the prisoners—-any-
how, not half so much as they add to the general
feeling of desperation and utter hump.
* * * *
A Thoughtful Citizen speaks:—
It is time someone jumped firmly on the Wages
Board system, as carried out at the present time
in N. S. Wales. The interest of the party which
is opposing the increase of wages or lessening of
hours is to prolong the case as long as possible for
two reasons. Delay wears the other chap out finan-
cially, and makes him disinclined to have any more
trouble before a board. Also, it postpones the day
of the increase indefinitely. One way of obviating
this would be to amend the Act so that all awards
should be retrospective to the date of the issue of the
original claim. Also, the system of payment to
chairmen badly requires alteration. At present they
are paid so much a sitting. The longer the case
goes the more money they draw—and although
a man may not be corrupt and deliberately prolong
a case in order to make more money out of it, it
stands to reason that he has an unconscious bias
against anything like red-hot speed. Furthermore,
he is mostly a lawyer, and often one of those whose
incomes can easily stand any side profits that
unexpectedly blow along. A lawyer, of any sort,
by his very training, must become incapable of going
straight to the point. For years and years he has,
in the sacred interests of Holy Costs, gone the
furthest way round to arrive at the point, and when
he becomes chairman of a Wages Board the habit
does not depart from him. So the chairmen should
be paid on some other system. Probably the best
would be that of a descending 'scale. The usual
“sitting” is generally a matter of a couple of hours
at most in the evening, whereas it should be the
same as the average daily hours worked in the
trade or business under review. That would be a
great help to the chairman in his struggle to get a
proper appreciation of what sort of day it really was.
Then there is a doubt if it is wise to allow either
side to have the services of lawyers. Some of the
lawyers behave decently, but of late there has been
a tendency to resort to police-court methods and to
ask witnesses how many times they have been in
gaol. All of which is- foreign to the question of
wages, prolongs the case, wastes time and public
money, and causes needless fury.
Frequenters of a well-known Melbourne
restaurant got the surprise of their bright
young lives the other night, when shortly
after 12, a couple of supper tables were
moved aside, and a modest-looking maiden
did a mixture of Salomfe and Kismet dances.
She was simply frocked in tights and a veil
as to the lower limbs, while above the belt
appeared the customary spangled cocoanut
shells settlement. By the way, this is the
establishment which, for some months, had,
as a waiter, the brother of a British peer
and the holder of one of the oldest names
THE DIFFERENCE.
HE : “I believe that now Jack's married he's
quite settling down.”
SHE: “According to his wife's bills he is more
likely to be settling up.”
in Debrett. The unhappy lad passed in
there after an hilarious time as a guest at
Government House, and at other big places,
which led him, via the racecourse, to a conai
tion of extreme financial strugglesomeness.
His affluent friends got tired of paying
debts, and 5,0,/to avoid starvation, he too
to waiting. The restaurant got rid ot niro
ultimately. The sight of him used to ann £-
the multitudinous bookmakers to whom
owed money. And the Melbourne restauia
that can afford to exasperate its bookmaKi g
patrons has not yet been evolved.
POET’S FEET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“You are a niglitwatchman ?” —“Yes, I watch the
Gas Company’s jobs in the streets.”
“You have time to ruminate. You’re a bit of a
poet, aren’t you ?”—-“Perhaps I am. At my job
I must do something or go mad.”
—Evidence before Gas Makers’ Wages Board.
The busy brain that’s given to us
In turn must have its task,
Lest like a mad dinosaurus
It stares through midnight’s mask.
The watchman paces to and fro ;
At every stride, the rhythm
Is pacing too, and, soft and slow,
A million feet go with ’im.
The feet of pomes, the feet of man
Are things he can control —
The feet are his, the metres scan
In his immortal scroll.
But what of feet we know abound
In meters measuring gas,
Whose busy hands go re ud and round
Nor heed what gas-feet pass?
Perchance, since poets are employed,
’Twill be correct if we
Assume a poet’s hands have toyed
With meters on the spree.
N.S.W.
THE GAS MAN.


X EVERY DAY \
M more people are proving that
/111'
is the best washing preparation for
blankets, flannels, woollens and dainty
fabrics. Lux is scientific in its methods.
Lux coaxes rather than forces the dirt
from the clothes. Lux shortens the
work at the washtub —lengthens the
life of the clothes.
WON’T
SHRINK
WOOLLENS.
r
(•
LEVER BROTHERS
LIMITED. SVDNEV.
AN EPILEPTIC FIT.
A famous London physician, who for years
made a study of this disease, has, after a number of
experiments, found a prescription which affords re-
lief in almost a marvellous manner. This has been
put on the market by Mr. I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceu-
tical Chemist, of Belfast, under the name of
“Ozerine,” and the number of unsolicited testimonials
received ’speak well for its efficiency as a remedy
against this appalling disease. Your chemist can
easily get it for you.*
Dinner-Jacket Suits
—Refined and Distinctive.
In our latest ready-to-wear Dinner-Jacket Suits
we have embodied a very neat, smooth, pinhead
Vicuna with good silk facings. The coat has
the beautiful satin-faced Verona linings and lined
sleeves. The new peaked lapels, vent back, and
full skirt of the coat represent the latest correct
style.
These suits are typical of the Peapes’ standard
of correctness, care, and thoroughness in every
detail. Price 72/6
New style, Military Braid on trousers 757-
Postage 1/- extra.
Mention waist, chest, and inside leg measure-
ments when ordering.
Patterns and New Catalogue on request.
Peapes & Co. Ltd.,
Men’s Outfitters,
only Address: 309-311 George St., Sydney
Wild’s Hairdressing Rooms, 30 Upstairs.
Sydney Arcade, George and King Streets, Sydney, is
the proper place to go if you want the best of atten-
tion. Electric head and face massage done in the
latest American style. Hours of business: 8.30 to
6.30; Saturday close at 1 o’clock.*
HI
m
w
TO
72)6
Ready
to Wear.
In advocating the arming of the Weary
State police with revolvers, Melb. Herald
makes the unexpectedly sensible suggestion
that all such weapons should be
stamned with a number and that a
record should be kept by the police, who
would get their first information from the
retail seller. After that, the man who sold
privately would have to notify the law as
to the person who got his second-hand gun.
In a murder case an identifiable number on
a revolver would be a valuable clue. To the
plea that too many of these weapons are in
use it may be said that it is doubtful if there
are 11,000 of them in Melbourne; yet there
is that number of motor vehicles, all num-
bered and traceable.
Melbourne’s city councillors are in trouble,
and if anybody will give them the price of
the Flinders-street market building, and cart
it away, they will feel obliged. Recently the
machinery broke down at the cool stores and
caused considerable loss. Then the Railway
Commissioners told them they would have to
remove or otherwise obliterate a slice of the
building, as it was necessary to widen the
viaduct. The cool stores threaten to
be tenantlefes when the Government
stores at West Melbourne are opened.
On top of these troubles the founda-
tions have given way; the eastern part of
the building—where the subsoil is alluvial silt
-—has dropped about 12 inches ( !), and the
whole blessed contraption threatens to dash
itself into the bowels of the Yarra. Still,
even if the building is swallowed up utterly
the loan with which it was built will remain.
That is permanent, all right.
* * * *
“Melb ”: Scott’s Hotel in Collins-street,
Melbourne, is being dragged down with a
view to an entire and magnificent resurrec-
tion. At one time there was an idea of
buying the whole corner, and bursting
through into William-street, and making
about the biggest and finest bed-and-drink
emporium south of the line. But, appar-
ently, some of the people interested won’t
sell, so there is nothing for it but to build
a towering place on the old site, the
chimneys of which will warm the feet
of the angels. The Scott after whom the
place was named belonged to the generation
before last. When he was in his early
stages—his pub-infancy, so to speak—the
establishment was a mild, retiring little beer-
house called the Clarendon. It grew, in
competition with Menzies’. The Port Phillip
Club in Flinders-street makes a third in the
trio. It acquired the squatting business of
the deceased Prince of Wales, in Flinders-
lane.
THE OTHER ANIMAL.
PORTER (to himself): “And they say I lead a
dog's life!"
“Inked”: A sadder evening than that
which I spent in company with Rider Hag-
gard at the Sydney Institute of Journalists,
I never expect to endure this side of Perdi-
tion. Rider is a tall, powerfully-built man,
with a small head and a worried face. He
rose to reply to an absolutely funereal ora-
tion from Heney, of the Herald, with a
look on his countenance as though all was
lost. Then came the bitter, hot, blinding
tears —bottles of them. He explained that
he was humble, very humble, and constantly
becoming more so. He spoke in no spirit of
self-praise—God forbid it! —but he was con-
strained to mention that he had won success
in what was a heart-breaking profession.
The only comfort he got was when someone
on a couch of pain and sickness wrote and
told him how his works been enjoyed.
Then he temporarily wiped the tears away.
But not for long. Presently would come the
carking recollection that the modern writer
was like a butterfly. Here to-day, gone to-
morrow. And the grief that overcame him
was almost more than he could bear. A
few sad words followed on the iniquity of
the woman writer. He deplored the doings
of such females :
I would undertake, to-morrow—any man of any
experience of the world, and sufficient gift of the
pen could undertake —to write a book that would
sell by the hundred thousand, and yet avoid the law.
Not for a million pounds would I do it. (Applause.)
At the finish of what had been intended for
a festive gathering, most of us felt as though
a near relative had just fallen dead, leaving
us unremembered in the will.
“Rosna” (in London) : A new sort of
malefactor was discovered here the other
day. He was found sitting meekly beside
the band in Sir Charles Jessel’s ball-room
at Berkeley Square. There wasn’t so much
as a spoon about him. All he wanted was
the society of the nobility and
gentry—he being a middle-aged
shop-assistant, which is the
type that most loves a lord, so
they say. He was arrested and
charged with harmless be-
havior,. or innocuous language,
or. glaring at the aristocracy, or
being found alive on the pre-
mises, or something similar. It
came out in evidence that he
had previously written to an-
other social beacon or lighthouse as follows:
The Hon. Mrs. Massey-Beresford,
I should be pleased to attend your dance, and am
holding the day open. Kindly not overlook my name
in sending out invitations.
With kind regards, yours sincerely,
Kemo L. Sanders.
He hasn’t been sentenced yet, but it is
thought that he will get five years and a
flogging.
Chasuble writes: —
Ex-Judge Casey has left £lOOO
towards building St. Mary’s Col-
lege within Melbourne University.
The site is waiting—a piece of
scrubby land adorned with kero-
sene tins; but no laundress would
venture to hang a shirt there, for
a cow would assuredly eat it.
From time to time Catholicism
turns and asks: “Why haven’t we
a college, like the Anglicans, Pres-
byterians and Wesleens?” There
used to be an idea that the Metho-
dist one would go bung, and
Archbishop Carr would be the
highest bidder. But that idea
has to be given up, for the wily
Sugden has saved “Wesley.”
The Casey benefaction caused the
Newman Society of young Romans
at the University to clamor again
for an Alma Mater. They clam-
ored last year, but Archbishop
Carr and Dean Phelan firmly re-
sisted. All the money that could
be clutched was needed, they said,
for primary education and for
bringing forward the nuns as secu-
lar teachers. The case is exactly
like the agitation to persuade
Cardinal Manning to build West-
minster Cathedral. “No,” said
he, “I want the money for the
poor.” Yet Cardinal Vaughan
built it. The hopes of the Mel-
bourne Newmans rest with Coad-
jutor-Archbishop Mannix, the
schoolmaster and ex-Maynooth
Principal, and they have been at
him. Of course he is ultra-
cautious, and will not go a step
beyond Archbishop Carr’s prompt-
ing. Yet Casey’s £lOOO is a
good nest-egg.
“Kiki”: Liverpool, Maoriland’s recently-
imported vice-regal gaud, has been putting
a little salt int*> the raw places left on Soci-
ety by his predecessor’s missus. Mrs. Isling-
ton. In celebration of the arrival of the
country’s loan warship at Wellington last
week, a citizens’ ball had been arranged as
part of the festivities, and the committee in-
vited George V.’s unemployed delegate to
attend. But apparently the “invite” was
not couched in terms befitting Liverpool s
size in dignity, or something like that, be-
cause a bald reply was forwarded that there
was no ball on the week’s programme, and
that his Worship was going to Auckland the
day after the ship arrived. This was a bad
enough snub, but when it was learned that
the Heaven-born was putting on a hop and
two other shivoos for the northern city, the
outraged feelings of the inhabitants of the
capital city ran hot and smoked publicly.
HIS MODESTY.
“I shall settle Jive hundred a year on my wife
the day we're married.”
“ You are letting yourself go too cheap , Reggie
dear. It's worth a thousand."
“0.K.” writes: —
An outcry from Trafalgar (Vic.) calls attention
to the Law’s incapacity for dealing rationally with
such citizens as F. B. Whiskie, of Footscray (Melb.),
Whiskie, who had presumably left Footscray for the
district’s good, and gone to Trafalgar to get a job,
is a frequent and versatile offender. A long series
of convictions for horse-stealing, larceny, assault and
battery, etc., were admitted by him when he was
brought to account for his latest indiscretion. He
had savagely assaulted a harmless “drunk,” and
when a lady expostulated with him he knocked her
down also, and kicked her likewise. He fought with
the policeman who arrested him, screaming for a
revolver and behaving like a dangerous lunatic. For
all of which the Court —one Harris, P.M. —fined
him £6 or five weeks. Hence the shriek of indig-
nation from Trafalgar. The beak’s view of the case
was not more unsatisfactory than the views of pre-
vious beaks who had punished the same prisoner
more severely for previous misdeeds. They sent him
to prison for a short term, or a longer term, with
the invariable result that he came forth looking for
more trouble. Harris, P.M., accepted Whiskie’s
allegation that his mind was weak, and had not re-
tained smy recollection of his misconduct. Rather
than deal with the evilly-disposed crank as though
he were quite sane, this particular magistrate gave
him the softest sentence permitted by the Law. And
the Law knows that the hardest sentence in its book
of rules would have been less fair to the prisoner
though it were less unjust to the community. No
proper place of restraint is provided for the Whiskies
of this country. No attempt is made to test their
possibilities of improvement. Habitual offenders are
left to make themselves a nuisance in gaol and a
pest to society out of it. Their habitual offensive-
ness argues mental disease, but the Law’s earnest en-
deavor is to aggravate the complaint. Being un-
reasonable, they are unreasonably irritated by a
“discipline” of close confinement, interrupted by
periods of unproductive toil. The gaoling of such
persons is a wicked waste of time and money. The
non-gaoling of them is futile “leniency,” which sets
the public shrieking. What they need is a chance to
do good open-air wprk for a good wage on Federal
Government property in the Empty North, where they
would be considered as penaL*§anatorium patients
for (say) two years. Anv patient declared in-
curable at the end of two years could be fairly
gazetted as a noxious weed and exterminated. The
other day a prisoner at Ballarat Supreme 'Court was
declared a “habitual criminal,” and told by the Judge
that he might be detained in a “reformatory” for 20
years. He replied, “I will be just as well satisfied
there.” The fellow was practically admitting him-
self a fit subject for the grave in his present condi-
tion. Nevertheless, he deserves a reasonable oppor-
tunity to change his views. If the experiment of
putting him on the land were tried and found use-
less, it would then be time to put him under the
land.
“Melb ’’: Principal Beeper, of Trinity
College, inaugurated the Classical Associa-
tion with a discourse on the superior virtue
of Greek and Latin over everything else.
Greek is a positive sin nowadays to anyone
but an enthusiast, who goes in for it as for
music. And our new English Professor.
Wallace, says Latin is no good as an aid to
learning English. No, indeed! Have we
not Shakspeare, Milton, Dickens, Scott,
Dryden, Macaulay, Ruskin? Yet Latin is
comparatively easy stuff, while Greek is the
Devil! It cuts at least two years out of the
best part of your life. So it’s going, going,
and will soon be gone out of the curriculum.
Beeper weeps because Adelaide will presently
be the only place left for compulsory Greek.
A souj-stirring tangle in
the English /law courts,
which has n'pt yet been
unravelled or otherwise
satisfactorily dealt with,
wouldn’t have . happened if
the Waratah hadn’t mys-
teriously blown off the
map of the world in the
way it did. Maria Mat-
tingley left bjgaci.es of
£5OOO each to Mrs. Starke
and Frederick Bryan, and
also willed that in the
event of either of them
dying before their benefac-
factress gave up the ghost
the other should impound
the lot. Mrs. Starke was
on board the Waratah
which ,may pr may not
have gone down on the
very day that Maria Mat-
tingley died. Now, if Mrs.
Starke was j, alive when
Mrs. Mattingley died, her
children are entitled to
£5OOO, and if the Wara-
tah turned turtle before
Maria’s conclusion. Fred-
erick Bryan takes every-
thing. The Court reserved its decision,
but no amount of reservation is likely to
diselose the exact hour of the Waratah’s
vanishment, and owing to Maria Mat-
tingley’s poor selection of a day to die upon
everything depends on that.
The Young Women’s Christian Association
of Maoriland, with the approval of the Minis-
ter for Railways, has been busy advertising
the exact strength of the morality of the
Maoriland man when a lone female is in the
vicinity. Placards have been posted on the
railway stations as follows
SUGGESTIONS TO WOMEN AND GIRLS TRAVEL-
LING ALONE.
Never start anywhere without knowing the exact
name and address of the person to whom you are
going. And be sure you notify them of the time
and dav of your arrival. 1
Never start anywhere unless you have sufficient
money, in addition to your railway or boat ticket,
to provide for your living for three days in case you
are delayed or meet with an accident on the way.
Do not talk to strangers or take advice from any-
one but an official.
If applied to by letter, or in person, all Y.W.C.A.’s
will gladly welcome any woman or girl who is un-
expectedly stranded or knows no place of safety in
the city.
No beauteous maiden need further tremble
at the thought of being Alone in Holy Dune-
din. All she has to do now is to get two
policemen to escort her to the moated fort-
ress of the Y.W.C.A.
A SIGN OF DECAY. W
THE CASHIER: “I must
heme a holiday. I
think I must be losing
my good looks.”
THE MANAGER: “Why?”
THE CASHIER: “ Because all the men count
their change now.”
CRAWLERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Creeping exercise is the newest cure. Dr. Klotz,
a conspicuous German, is the chief expounder of the
gospel of health that is to out all the simple-life
creeds that have jumped up of late years. The ad-
vantage of the crawl is due to the fact that man
was designed and constructed to go on all-fours,
and in getting proud and stuck-up he has disarranged
the hang of all his internal traps and ware. Only
by getting down to it, and pounding round on hand
and hoof can we hope to get thoroughly fit and well
again.
The upstart praneing on his heels
May carry high his haughty head,
But when internal pangs he feels,
And o’er his being sickness steals,
He realises that instead
Of walking on his hinder end
He should be going on a bend.
The portly cit. who’s full of grief
And ind'gestion’s grisly woes,
Is told he’s carrying his beef
All wrong, and to obtain relief
He should get down on hands and toes,
And must, his valued life to save,
Go with his vest along the pave.
Blackmailers all are hale and strong,
The waiter’s liver is not slewed.
The new position for the throng
That Koltz advises has been long
Their customary attitude.
And toadies crawl no more in stealth —
They say they do it for their health !
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


William S on saver A l occasions
/v ot £who entc.Hai*7ed Royalty
dur.no V»S beKioJ »S
°t d,n o\ Bdjldf*t" BenevolenT
Av^l^
Mr. Watt’s first week in London was mainly
devoted to dispelling ignorance of Victorian
affairs in the world’s capital Melb. paper.
In view of the general increase of
wages, the trustees of the two ceme-
teries in Geelong have held a confer-
ence and decided to increase the
schedule of rates for burial. In some
instances charges have been raised as
much as 50 per cent.—News item.
w'
Tircitraif^
safe.,
Of L'^J.
Reverend (b*>s°l e,r
Geelong —
Dev friend. a/e.
brepMed "te die. .
/^of- under prey?* 1-
C»rcoroslvKes \p
Viyon And I*
I “HiinK
sdf
K
AVJoKool<\ frenzied vision oj- j>
"oraUe Would comnj.t-or. if irjnly f*>wer
;To Federal Gov? Bencher
The lion in the path 01 the i
party is bad leadership.—Mel),,
Doo/aep I^Rr r
VICTORIAN VISIONS AND THINGS.
[ALL Vincent. Bulletin Office. 360 Collirs-stced Melbourne.]


sd
For Chronic
Indigestion
TAKE
fs
df
sdf
Of Chemists, 1/3, 2/9 and 4/6.
Angier’s Emulsion lubricates and soothes the mucous
membrane of the stomach and intestines, arrests fermentation,
and promotes normal healthy action of the bowels. It is a
splendid tonic to appetite and digestion and it builds up health
and strength. Doctors prescribe it for chronic indigestion,
nervous dyspepsia, stomach and intestinal catarrh, etc. It has
cured many obscure and obstinate digestive troubles.
Send for free Sample ; enclose 4d. postage and mention this paper.
ANGIER CHEMICAL Co.. 7 Barrack St.. Sydney. N.S.W.
f
f
(SPARKLETS
“ASoda-Tbunfain
on a c Jea-'fmy"\
Wanted in every
home in Australia
“ SPABKLETS "-Because
they will make delicious cool
and sparkling drinks in the
hot Summer days pure,
fresh and ready instantly.
Order a Sparklet Syphon
from your storekeeper
to-day, and your home
will be happier all the
Summer.
C. SYPHONS, 6 6 ea. C. BULBS, 2/3 dor.
B. SYPHONS, 4 -ea. B. BULBS, 1/6 dor.
is?:
i-M?
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Montalex”: Have myself seen some un-
canny deep-sea denizens that had “fallen up” to the
surface (“Umfaan,” B. 17/4/’l3). These abyssal
fishes, as they are called, are provided with an in-
ternal gas-producing plant to enable them to stand
the enormous water-pressure of their native depths—
approximately one ton per square inch per mile.
As they are all piscivorous, pursuit of prey very
often brings them up into a pressure so much dimin-
ished that their internal gas, expanding more and
more, forces them faster and faster to the surface.
Before they get there distension reaches bursting-
point.
AN EXCESS OF BLISS.
BILLO (possessing a thirst) : "Struth, Micko ,
I’d like to 'ave the first ’art' of ’is bad
luck.”
“Masareus”: This is my entry for the
Mixed Relationship Stakes. The mother of a recent
Gingin (Westralia) bride died some years ago, and
her father married the daughter of the father of the
present bridegroom. As a result of the recent wed-
ding, the bridegroom’s father-in-law is his own
brother-in-law, and the bride’s father-in-law is her
own father’s father-in-law; the bridegrom is step-
uncle to the bride, who therefore becomes her hus-
band’s step-niece ; the bride’s stepmother is her sister
in-law; her own father is her brother-in-law; and,
finally, the bride’s father-in-law is her own step-
grandfather. But over here, we are still in doubt as
to (1) what relation the bride’s stepfather is to the
cousin of the bridegroom’s fairy god-niece; (2) what
relation the eldest child (if any) will be to the step-
uncle of the newly-wed husband’s bride. If you don’t
know, please don’t worry about it. It is far more
important to kill McGowen, or somebody.
“L’Aiglon”: Bill’s got another grievance.
Last night he cursed his way into the taproom and
pitched a new straw hat on the table.. “’Struth!”
he snarled, “them blighters at the store ’ud do a
bloke for his beer. See that (rancid) hat?” I
had a look. “Seems all right,” I told him. “Right,
be dashed” (or something), he said. “Lor’blime,
I give seven and a kick for that, reckonin’ it was
brand noo, and the (flyblown) thing’s second-hand.
’Ere, read this.” He straightened out the leathers
inside, and this is what I read: “Bon-ton; 6J;
worn by George V.” It was rough on Bill. He had
got the King’s hat, and George V. was presumably
going round bare-headed.
* * * *
Tiaki : In the 1912 M.L*. Parliamentary
report pertaining to the Cook (Rarotongan) and
other islands, M. Percival, chief medical health
officer, says: “The health of the islands as a whole
was in a most deplorable condition, syphilis pre-
dominant, working havoc with the constitutions of
the natives and materially affecting the birth-rate.
....The diseases I found most prevalent were syphi-
lis-secondary, tertiary and constitutional (few
primary cases are seen, as the natives treat the sores
themselves, with baneful results) ; intermittent fever
of an irregular type, gonorrhoea, uterine diseases,
phthisis, rheumatism, skin diseases peculiar to the
tropics, leprosy, beri-beri (a form of which is
peculiar to and endemic in the northern group),
and other diseases which are met with among white
laces as well as colored. .. .Leprosy is rife on every
island except Rarotonga I would strongly
advise that, in the interests of the patients,
in the interests of the inhabitants, and having re-
gard to the fruit trade, all these eases be collected
by a Government vessel and isolated at Penrhyn
As the leper patients are at present situated, the
situation is distressing in the extreme. No fresh
water for washing, no soap, no change of garments
—filth predominated.” The glad results of the
noble missionary also get a ray of limelight in the
report. The Resident Commissioner (J. Eman
Smith), in his remarks on “bush beer,” says: “I
would draw your attention to the fact that the Lon-
don Missionary Society has been working on these
islands for 80 years, and although they possessed
during that period very great influence over the
natives, they failed absolutely to suppress bush-beer
drinking.... It may seem strange to place in writing
the fact that after 80 years’ Christian teaching by
the London Missionary Society, 90 per cent, of the
crimG is committed on Sunday, and the sworn evi-
dence in the Noo-ongo case will show that 80 per
cent, of the witnesses left church for the bush-beer
tub.”
“Bloggs”: Thus Melbourne Argus
(8/4/ 13), at its old pastime of trying to prove
that North Australia isn’t fit for white folks to live
in:—
The white man has adapted himself to life in most
parts ot the earth. . . .But the white woman has not
yet proved her fitness to live long periods in countries
hot and humid.
I was talking, the other day, to an edu-
cated Englishman who had recently ac-
complished the feat of riding from the
Queensland border to Darwin. He had
no prejudices as regards local politics,
one way or the other. What appeared to
have impressed him most about the Ter-
ritory were the white women he met
there. Some of them had been in these
allegedly pestilential parts for half a life-
time. They were as hard as nails. The
lady of one house he stayed at did the
whole of her husband’s work —mustering
cattle, managing the niggers, branding,
etc., during the six months per annum
that the latter was obliged to be away
droving, buying and selling stock and so
forth —this on the authority of the gen-
tleman himself. This observer summed
up the whole case against the Territory,
so far as he could estimate it from a
careful personal investigation which the
Argus (for instance) has never given that
region, in the words: “Insufficient soci-
ety.” The life there is healthy enough,
he said, for people of either sex, but
most infernally lonely—a disability
which is felt severely by women, who are
gregarious souls for the most part. That
is a trouble which is going to be cured
with increase of settlement; and increase
of settlement will never take place on
any large scale till unpatriotic rags of the
Argus stamp cease representing the place
as a miasmatic and fever-smitten swamp.
* * * *
“Montalex”: Although guaiacum (lignum
vitce) is of much medicinal value —hence the name,
“wood of life”—the bark renders water narcotically
poisonous to fish, and is much used for this purpose
in Borneo and Celebes. I remember going with a
Minnahassa village headman to “cash mush feesh”;
but, as he was equipped with nothing but a long-
handled landing-net, I wondered how he was to do
it. The selected spot was a deep hole in the bend
of a “crick.” From a tree near at hand the chief
chopped a lot of bark, which he pounded to shreds
between two stones. Then he threw it in, and in a
few minutes the water looked as if milk had been
mixed with it. Pop ! —a big red fish shot up as from
a gun, floundered for a few moments, and lay motion-
less on the surface. Then came another and an-
other, faster almost than the old chap was able to
dip them out with his net. As the water cleared
and the supply began to slacken, I examined the tree
and found that it was Guaiacum sanctum, a species
closely allied to the Australian representative of the
genius. Old-time bushranger Cash’s statement, that
Australian natives adopted a plan of narcotically
poisoning fish with lignum vitce bark, was probably,
therefore, quite correct.
HIGH-TONED ABORIGINAL ITEM.
STATION HELP: “ You seen you old people lately?"
S'TOCKMAN : “No. You see it doesn't do to be seen too much about the blacks’ camp.
“Rangan”: At Ilelidon (Q.) the other
day various representatives of the Department of
Agriculture and of the local shire council took a
solemn oath to exterminate a few million of the
flying foxes that camped near the town, and, inci-
dentally, gave visitors the idea that there was a
bad leakage in the sanitary system. Armed with
enough dynamite to blow the top off Australia, the
experimenters waded through the stench to a tree
black with the inverted stink pots. A wire * alive
with plugs of dynamite was entangled amongst the
branches and electrically fired. Back came the ex-
pert to view the slaughter. Not one fox was in-
jured. Some even did not trouble to fly away ; others,
annoyed at having their daily nap disturbed, leisurely
flew off to resume same on the adjoining trees.
When you burst dynamite in the air it doesn’t make
enough trouble to disturb your eldest unmarried
aunt. The best idea is .to get a cannon, load it
with swan shot, point it at the fox-roost, close
your eyes, pray hard, and then fire. After that, it
is advisable to run lest the drizzle of dead foxes
should cave your head in.
“McNorth”: Touching “Mallarapoonie’s”
belief that the camel is the only dumb brute that
can count (B. 20/2/T3), let me cite the case of
Billy. Billy was an ancient paekhorse, scion of
generations of mokes which had humped man’s goods
about for a crust. When I was tin-scratching back
o’ Cairns (N.Q.) Billy was my onlv horse, and every
Saturday I took him to the township, 10 miles dis-
tant, for stores, etc. The rest of the week he had
nothing to do ; yet he was not satisfied. He would
hang round the camp till Friday night, and then
disappear till Sunday. Several weeks I had to walk
to the township and hump the flour' and beef on my
back, pausing a while to make remarks re the curse
of education in horses. Then a brilliant idea struck
me. I would alter the day for going to the town-
ship to Wednesday. I did it, and thereafter for two
weeks I had no trouble in catching Billy. But he
was very thoughtful and somewhat aggrieved. He
seemed to think he had made an error in his calcu-
lations. When lie found out how he had been de-
ceived, I had to alter the day again. Billy was very
much surprised when I caught him on a Monday.
He nearly wept. All his careful figuring had been
in vain. When I let him go that night he eyed me
with scorn, and, turning slowly, galloped into the
bush, wearing his tail in an attitude of defiance.
He hasn't been seen since.
» * # #
“Exterminator” : llow to get rid of cock-
roaches aboard ship? Easy. Let “Vagabond,” who
made the inquiry, borrow a large pot from the cook’s
galley and put within it a lump of high-sounding
cheese. Place the pot, lid off, in the stamping
ground of the ’roaches and they will fill it as often
as he can empty it for about 10 days. After that
the ship will have a clean bill —presuming “Vag”
has done the reasonable thing with his captive game,
and tossed them overboard.
“Norseman”: This’ll show you that it's
not only his cows that the cocky is careful about.
We had arranged the “darnce” (we live in the
Mc w , ~. , . . .
-k. \V. backblocks), and the only thing left to do
was to fix the place. The committee was instructed
to interview (say) .Smith and ask for the loan .of
his bam. The interview happened “No ” veil
can’t have it,” said Smith. “Yeh’ll disturb the
fowls, like yeh did at Jones’s.”
THE POINT OF VIEW.
THE OPTIMIST (on a Friday): "Well, Bill ,
another week of worry nearly finished.”
THE PESSIMIST : “I dunno. We're getting
near another week of it, y’ know.'’
“Weka”: It was the last race of the day
at the Maori meeting, and Tamati Piripi, the judge,
could hardly balance on the barrel which did duty
as his official stand. The mokes tore up the straight
in a bunch, and a white, a bay and a black flew
past the post locked together. As Tamati made no
sign of giving his decision, the crowd became ini-
patient, and demanded as one cannibal to be told
what horse had won. “By cripe,” exclaimed the
judge in a burst of inspiration, “I tink te piepald
every time.”
UNIMPRESSED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Northern Territory native, brought down South
on a visit and taken to see the sights, remains
stoically unimpresed.— ltem from Melbourne Herald.
We whirl him round the stately town
To see the sights the South contains;
Calm, stoical, the man of brown
Yawns at our hoardings, shops and trains,
And City Council, pipes and drains—
A dreary trail, a futile quest.
For all our lighted parks and lanes,
The Child of Nature’s unimpressed.
The heroes rant, the comics clown.
Alas! no mummer entertains
(E’en Julius, of high renown)
This nigger from the empty plains.
Though J. C. Williamson maintains
That he alone provides the best
Imported stars, all else disdains—
The Heathen blind is unimpressed.
Without a smile, without a f-own,
He weighs our heavy Culture’s gains,
And turns our heavy Culture down ;
A scornful critic he remains.
With leaders grave the Argus strains
To educate this blighted guest,
And Joe Cook racks his Liberal brains—
The savage youth is unimpressed.
Envoy.
Oh. lily roots and sugar canes!
The Tories' rage like men possessed
In borrow, boom and bust campaign—-
The Neolith is unimpressed.
VICTORIA.
GANESHA.


TARRANTS
MELBC JRNE.
The BIQQEST & BUSIEST MOTOR HOUSE in Australia.
Enormous Stock of Accessories always on hand.
Builders of the Best Motor Bodies.
MOST UP-TO-DATE REPAIR WORKS.
Tarrant motors pty. ltd.,
Agents in Victoria for Fiat, F.N., Ford, 8.5. A.,
Mercedes, Rover, Austro-Daimler, Sunbeam,
Adler, Commer, Thornycroft,
104-112 Russell St., and 186-192 Exhibition St., Melbourne.
’Phones—3o3o, 2942, 6280, 5534, 3100.
A
I
On August 5, 1858, Mr. Cyrus Field announced by
telegram from Trinity Bay in America that it and
V alentia in Ireland, 2134 miles apart, had been
connected by wires. The great Atlantic cable was
no longer a dream. Her first message was despatched
by Queen Victoria to the President of the United
States “hoping that the electric cable will prove an
additional link between the nations whose friendship
is founded upon common interest and reciprocal
esteem.” Phillips Ormonde & Co., patent attorneys,
17 Queen St,, Melbourne.*
Martin's Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. Ladies recommence
thorn. Be sure you get the genuine with tne
signature, Martin, Chemist. Southampton.
“A. Kito”: As I am going ranching in
the Dalby district (Q.), where I understand the
prickly-pear is. a calamity only equalled by State
Frights, I want to know something about the fol-
lowing, from a newspaper that I have hitherto
trusted:—
On many ranches on the Hawaiian Islands there are
cattle that have never known what it means to take a
drink of water. The cactus supplies them with both
food and drink ; the great prickly leaves, with spikes
an inch long, and the tender young shoots supply all
the nourishment required. The cattle have tongues
as hard as leather, and make short work of the
treacherous-looking slabs of green—another pro-
vision of Nature. Curiously enough, this cactus
land, which the traveller usually learns to scorn, is
worth .-£ 3 an acre in Hawaii. The cactus pear, too,
is a splendid food for pigs, and is one of the assets
of a ranch which has great stretches of lava land,
where the cactus holds sway.
I’d like to get some of those cattle, but I suspect
they would be difficult to locate.
ON THE TRAIL.
Entomologist W. W. Froggart, F.L.S.,
has been burrowing after Australia’s first rabbit.
Records show that a pair was liberated by a sealer
on an island near Wilson’s Promontory, about 70
years ago. A big landholder is blamed for originat-
ing the curse, so far as the mainland is concerned,
by unloosing the forbears of those we now have with
us on his run between Geelong and Colac (Vic.), in
the late ’6o’s. Brother Bunny was declared a pest
and a curse within the meaning of the Act, in Vic-
toria, in 1880, and about that time he arrived in
N.S.W. by way of Murray Downs station. He opened
his first branch business in Queensland in 1887.
Froggart’s investigations brought Captain Watson on
deck to remark that the N.S.W. stock returns for
1788 showed five bunnies —-first-fleeters. Among
others who unsuccessfully tried their hands at accli-
matisation was a Mr. Holt, of Marrickville (Sydney).
Captain Watson remembers that Thomas Austin, of
Barwon Park, Winchelsea, near Geelong (Vic.), let
loose several rabbits, as well as sundry hares,
pheasants and partridges, in 1864, and thereby
assisted many brother squatters on the cheerful way
to the Bankruptcy Court.
ART FOR ART’S SANE.
THE REVEREND: "But, my dear friend, what good do you get from the use of all this
shocking profanity ?”
THE RIBALD: "Strike me purple! D['you coves want to make a matter uv profit and
blanky lorse out er everything?”
“Tom Cooper” : There’s a mystery about
the Arrino (W.A.) district that requires explanation.
Years ago it was a land of full and
plenty and a happy hunting-ground
for black brother. Wallaby, bandi-
coot, kangaroo-rat, ’possum, mallee
hens and such-like teemed; yet in a
season they, with the dingo, aban-
doned the place as if it had suddenly
become haunted by Beelzebub’s provi-
dore. Nor have they ever returned,
and to-day the only game thereabouts
consists of the kangaroo, wild turkey
and an odd lame ’possum or two.
Last year two mallee hens were found
nesting for the first time for 30 years,
but the vandals couldn’t leave them
alone and give them a chance to re-
stock the district. Local observers
can advance no theory that will satis-
factorily account for the phenomenon.
It cannot be set down to the crowd-
ing-out influence of the white man,
because it is only during the last six
years that any settlement has taken
place, and then only in small patches.
Presumably Providence has gone on
strike in the Arrino country.
“Ivory”: How are the Abo. records on
calf-branding ? At the Ord River cattle station in
W.A., seven men branded 40 calves in 20 minutes,
50 calves in 28 minutes, and 176 in one hour 28
minutes. All hands were Queenslanders, barring a
couple of W.A. blacks. On another occasion a sport
at Millungera station, on the Flinders, put up a
tenner to say that the six station stockmen could not
brand 60 calves in the hour. Right joyfully was
his 10 jim covered, and when he saw the boys put
through 18 calves in 15 minutes by his own stop-
watch, he bade farewell to his tenner like a man.
“Frae” : Here’s my one and only experi-
ence of black-tracking. I spent three days and
nights in the bush near Yea (Vic.), in company
with two trackers, in charge of Constable Wright,
then at Tallarook, looking for a lost child. Although
there was any amount of soft ground near the creeks,
and although the blacks circled round and round the
homestead in widening circles like lost homers, they
never picked up a track of any description. The
child, less than three years old, was found by her
brother, after a spell of over 100 hours of capricious
Easter weather, in the bush. Incidentally, how about
that for an endurance stunt.
“Tamumu” : This is the story of how the
cow-cocky beat me. I was living where I had to
board the train at a lonely flag-station, in order to
get to town. On my second morning I was peram-
bulating the platform, when what was obviously a
dairy farmer’s cart came along the road and pulled
up opposite the station. The driver, on spotting
me, commenced doing the semaphore act, so I
strolled across to him, wondering whose Strawberry
was dead, or what other cow-country calamity had
happened. In the cart the cocky had a can with
801 b. of cream in it, and he clamored for my assist-
ance to carry it across the paddock. I gave him the
“hand.” On questioning him, I discovered that he
brought 801 b. of cream every second morning, and
that he depended on casual travellers for assistance to
carry it from cart to station. The can with its con-
tents weighed close on a hundredweight. On my
suggesting that he should bring someone with him
to help, he remarked that there were only the
missus and the boy, and he couldn’t afford to take
the latter away from his work. This from a man
who was sending 401 b. of cream to the factory daily.
No more can-carrying for mine, I decided. Two
mornings afterwards the cocky reappeared and sema-
phored as before, but I wasn’t having any. Some-
how or other he got the can of cream to the plat-
form. As he staggered past me he growled, “You
might have given a bloke a hand.” “Nevermore,”
quoth I. “We’ll see,” he muttered. I spent the
time during the journey to town wondering if the
man was mad. He must be if he imagined there
was any way in which he could coerce me into hump-
ing his beastly cream. Two mornings lyter I was
alone on the platform. Presently the familiar "chicle
appeared. A glance showed me that I was routed.
A lonely female and the accursed can were the sole
occupants of the cart. The cocky had sent his
missur! Distress signals were soon hoisted, the jack
half-masted. One couldn’t leave a woman to struggle
with the baleful can, so Mrs. Cocky and I lugged the
flaming thing to the platform. After that I walked
a couple of miles daily to the next station, to avoid
becoming a cow-cocky’s unpaid laborer.
“A.L.8.” : Wasn’t it “Mallarapoonie” who
a while ago, said either that no large and dangerous
alligators are found in Australia, except in the salt-
water mouths of rivers, etc., or that only small and
harmless ’gators are met with in fresh-water creeks
and lagoons? Well, at Plantation Creek (Ayr
N.Q.), the other day, a man lay down on the bank
while his horse drank. A snap like the discharge of
a dingo-trap caused him to spring to his feet in
time to see his horse’s head fall one way and' its
body the other. The neck had disappeared. If the
alligators of fresh-water creeks are only little fel-
lows and harmless, what took that horse’s neck?
And here’s another case. Scene: Deep, long, wide
lagoon, with precipitous banks, on the Lower Bur-
dekin (N.Q.). Enter a huge bullock. Carefully it
made down the steep bank towards the cool water
(it was a blistering mid-summer day). Half-way
down the bank the animal seemed inclined to retrace
its steps; but it sniffed the water and went on. I
on the opposite bank, was about to let my horse
have a drink ; but when I saw two huge greenish
jaws grab that bullock by the snout, I changed mv
mind. For, I reckon, 20 solid minutes the ’gator
tried to pull the bullock into the water. Sometimes,
one would gain a foot, sometimes the other. On
level ground I’d have liked the bullock’s chance. But
presently the bullock’s strength left its knees.
Slowly the animal gave ground and then splashed
into the water, disappearing instantaneously. All
through the struggle hardly a sound had been made,
save the gasping of the victim in its effort to breathe!
“Loo Lear”: Fitzelarence went out with
his new gun, the other evening, rabbit shooting, and
returned with an empty bag and a strange story. He
said that on his side of the river the bunnies were
so accelerated that he couldn’t get a shot at them
but on the opposite bank he saw a dozen or so that
stood up and looked down the barrel of the artillery.
He shot the lot, but his difficulty was to get
across the river and collect them. Half an hour
later Bill brought in the mangled remains. “Next
time ’y get shootin’ into my traps,” he said to
Clarence, “I’ll dashed well bite you.”
* * * *
“M’poonie”: One more example of how
the white man, bred and born in a cool climate,
can’t live, let alone work, Distralia’s tropic north.
In Central Queensland, a wune back, I ran across
a tall, fair, clean-shaven foreigner, who had the
blue of a Norse parentage in his eyes, and that air
of boundless energy which has carried the white
man into every corner of the world, and made him
boss of most of it. The man was known as “George,
the Swede,” and he looked only for the toughest
and best-paid kinds of contract work —and mostly
found as much of it as he could cope with. A
better toiler never stripped under a vertical sun.
Later on it turned out that George wasn’t George
at all —that he was Gustav, and a Dane. One day
I asked him what part of Denmark he came from.
“No part,” said he, “I natif off Iceland.” Nov, a
person who claimed the Arctic Circle for an old
friend had interest for me, and I pursued further
inquiries. Ultimately, after hearing of dull and
dreadfully protracted winters and many tales of
much snow and ice, I asked Gustav if he ever,
thought of going back to his native land. Gustav
just dwelt long enough in his work to hook a stream
of sweat off his forehead with a bent forefinger;
then he snapped out, “Pi shingo ! No.” There was
a world of emphasis in those words, and if Thb
Bulletin wants any private information about Ice-
land, it can have Gustav’s other name and address
for the asking.
NO COMPLAINT.
MCTURK (meeting the local grocer, a brther
Scot): “Pm nae complainin', Muster
Ale Lavish, ye ken. I dinna mind a wee
bit sand wi ma sugar, but I wad like the
sugar tae pree-dominate.”
“Snell” : The splendid river boat Widgee,
with a great glory of flags, scenting the woodland
with radiant blue paint, and vociferous with whis-
tles, was making its first flight up the Murray,
gorged with groceries and fencing wire, and seeking
a return cargo of wheat and wool. Just beyond
Goode’s bend, a small row-boat was seen to put
off from the wooded north bank. The propelling
force was a wire-haired Scotch terrier of a man
who rowed with such frantic efforts, and threw out
so many signals between jerks, that the whole
crew of the Widgee gathered for’ard to witness the
demonstration. As the steamer drew near, the man,
generally suspected of being Scotch, arose in his
punt, and shook a warning oar at the leviathan.
Then he whirled his hat as a danger signal, and
fluttered his crimson whiskers in the breeze. “Stop •
he howled. “Dammit all, dinna ye hear me.
Stop!” The Widgee made no pretence of stopping,
and the wild Caledonian grew more frenzied. “Pull
up!” he squealed. “Woa, hack! ITa’ ye man-
ner iv sense, veh dommed heathen ye? Stop!’ The
captain of the Widgee hung his head over the side.
“And why should I stop ?” bellowed he. The man
in the boat danced up and down. “Why for? h e
screamed. “Why for?” and he pointed tragical y
up stream. “In the name o’ Chreestian manners
and common decency, that’s why for. The wife s tn
swimmiri'!” The captain of the Widgee went on,
and chanced it.
IN A LACHLAN BEND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Out at the back of the last lone station,
Down in a Lachlan Bend,
Where the white cranes flock to their recreation
And the black swans nightly wend;
Down on the beach where the fish play nightly,
Down by the stream where tfie stars shine brightly,
Up with the tent! I will take life lightly
Down in a Lachlan Bend.
Heaven-made spot for a dreamer lonely,
Down in a Lachlan Bend ;
Silence stirred by the song-birds only,
Harmonies soft that blend.
Here’s where the magpie’s carol’s sweeter,
Song of the thrush hath a ’witching metre,
Smile of the dawn, as the songsters greet her,
Gladdens the Lachlan Bend.
Far from the glamor of Fame or Fashion,
Down in a Lachlan Bend;
Out of the World, with its pain and passion,
Joys that in sorrow end.
Free from the spur of a mad ambition,
Dead-Sea fruit of a dream’s fruition,
Living a life that has no contrition,
Down in a Lachlan Bend.
Here’s where a man may with Masters mingle,
Down in a Lachlan Bend ;
Here with the Lords of Australian jingle %
May he a season spend.
“Banjo” bringeth his ballads ringing,
Ogilvie carols his sunnier singing,
Pulsing verses is Lawson bringing,
Down to the Lachlan Bend.
Close to the breast of the rippling river,
Down in a Lachlan Bend ;
Near to the heart of the Mighty Giver,
Here would I wait the end.
Fires of life are the long years damping—
Lord, I am sick of the Plains, and tramping.
Fain would I bide till the last long camping,
Down in a Lachlan Bend.
N.S.W.
BLACKBOY.
THE OLD LAND IN THE SOUTH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I can feel the green flax calling
From the swamp-lands and the creeks;
I can see the tree-ferns sprawling
Where the under-tangle reeks;
I can hear the bell-bird donging—
Oh. my heart is cold with longing
For the land I left behind me in the South.
Where the toi-toi’s whiteness
Traces where the rivers run ;
Where the range’s infiniteness
Faints in blue beyond the sun ;
Where the red, red rata’s glowing,
And the white clematis snowing
In the land I left behind me in the South.
I am back on virgin beaches
When the sunrise spreads the sea
With a lilac path that reaches
To the end of Ecstasy;
And I dream by waves that wander
From the mystic Over-yonder
To the land now left behind me in the South.
Oh, the farthest hills look greenest
In the hour of youth’s desire,
And the unknown ways serenest
When impatient spirits fire....
Ah, those barren hills and dreary,
And the spirits dulled and weary—
Head me homeward for the old land in the
South.
N.S.W.
KONINI.


HAUNTED.
(1) Mr Fisher Dromises' a higher tariff. Other Labor Ministers declare that such a promise is not binding on the party. (2) The Fusion programme is supposed
to include the maintenance policy of Protection. Liberal candidates daily denounce Mr. Fisher’s threat of increased Customs. (3) The lory Press
says the fiscal issue is dead.
THE PLAYERS OF THE PARTY GAME: “Confound that tapping! It quite unnerves me an spoils my play!
[Norman Lindsay, Bulletin Office, Sydney.]


NEVER FAILS.
“My two children have been subject to severe
attacks of cold and croup, and since it was first
recommended to me I have never used anything but
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy,” writes Mrs. Annie
Flynn, 27 Invermay Road, Launceston (Tas.). “It
never fails to at once relieve and finally cure them
of this distressing complaint.”*
GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
REXONA.
The Rapid Healer is an Ointment which heals with
remarkable rapidity. Unlike the old-fashioned oint-
ments which are very slow in their action, Rexona
speedily effects its relief after a very few applica-
te? 8 : Sold in triangular pots at Is. 6d. and 3s
Obtainable everywhere.*
WORLD-FAMED
F or
QUALITY.
HATS.
For
DURABILITY.
NURSE LINNDENBERG,
of Perth, West Australia,
writes—
CLEMENTS TONIC, LTD.—
“As a nurse I have seen CLEMENTS
TONIC DO SO MUCH GOOD AMONGST
MY MANY PATIENTS that I feel it my duty
to make those facts known. I have prescribed
it often, and in every case it has done I
expected of it. It SOOTHES THE PATIENT,
GIVES SWEET, REFRESHING SLEEP,
CREATES A DESIRE FOR FOOD, and not
only that, it HELPS THE FOOD TO DIGEST.
Patients become bright and cheerful after its
use. As a health restorer I decidedly say
CLEMENTS TONIC HAS NO EQUAL.
“(Signed) NURSE LINNDENBERG.”
ALL CHEMISTS and STORES SELL
CLEMENTS TONIC. Get it 8 jet well.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
[Manufactured by Albert John Owen, at his
workshop, 129 Grey-street, East Melbourne. Poems
1 ke the above a specialty.)
“F.C.” : I would like to know wherein this
country appears so dreadfully sinful. All the
missionaries on earth seem to be dying to
“save us.” We have had visits from Booth,
Dowie, Voliva, Ditchfield, Chapzander and a
host of others, and now Smith and Robins
leap on our chest like two holy devils. Why?
We have no uproarious Suffragettes to be
soothed, not much white-slave traffic to be
squelched, very little municipal or political
“graft” to be dealt with, no floating or sta-
tionary gambling casinos, not even the dread-
ful “Continental Sabbath.” * It can’t be that
these people rush us because we are compara-
tively generous in the matter of the “plate,”
for they all protest it is not the “plate” they
hanker after. Then what is it? Why is it?
Where is it?
"DRTBKIWER" NURPHY, Journalist.
Parh (W.A.).
A strenuous citizen went out of action
when Samuel Vaile died at Auckland (M.L.)
last week. He first came to light in London
85 years ago, and reached Auckland with his
father in 1843. In 1850 he departed for
San Francisco in a sailing vessel, but was
left on Pitcairn Island, and had to work
his passage back to Auckland by way of
Honolulu. A year or so later he founded a
solid business, and started to look round for
elbow-room for his energies. Auckland not
fulfilling requirements, he rushed back to
London, joined the Inventors’ Institute, be-
came a Fellow of the Royal Horticultural
Society and a member of the Society of
Arts. Then he hustled back to Maoriiand,
and put in most of the subsequent years in-
venting a new system of railway administra-
tion. In between times he contested Parlia-
mentary seats (always unsuccessfully), lec-
tured, elaborated a new system of land set-
tlement, was chairman of Auckland Cham-
ber of Commerce, and wrote several books.
He was a whale for keeping up with the
procession. No whale was ever more con-
spicuously in the front rank of things.
THE GREAT JEWISH PASSOVER.
One way and another Australia is seeking fully
£20,000,000 on the London market. —News item.
By The Bulletin’s Oldest Inhabitant:
Apropos Coadjutor-Archbishop Mannix (B.
24/4/’l3). A Coadjutor-Archbishop or Bishop is
always appointed Vicar-General of the Diocese. The
first of the kind was Dr. Charles Henry Davis, who
was titular Bishop of Maitland and coadjutor to Dr.
Holding, but there is no mention of “right of succes-
sion.” Dr. Davis’s “see” was thg little town of East
Maitland, and he never set foot in it. He was con-
secrated in 1847, and died in 1854, The next was
Roger Bede Vaughan, who had the right Of succes-
sion, and was appointed Vicar-General on his arrival.
An Assistant-Bishop is of different standing. Dr.
Higgins was Assistant to Cardinal Moran, without
succession rights. He became an independent Bishop
at Rockhampton, and is now at Ballarat.
The late John J. Donovan, K.C., LL.D.,
was the son of a wealthy George-street
(Sydney) ironmonger. Fie was originally
an attorney and a member of the firm of
McCarthy, Son and Donovan, successors to
the business of Holden and McCarthy. In
1873 he had his name erased from the roll
of solicitors, and was admitted to the Bar.
He quickly achieved a big position on the
Equity side. A lot of his wealth was lav-
ished on charities and on the R.C. Church.
He was a bachelor, one of the oldest mem-
bers of the Australian Club, and as cour-
teous and kindly an old citizen as any in
N. S. Wales. His years were 75 when he
Hew aloft.
There are some good (but
not very new) stories in “Anec-
dotes of Bench and Bar,” i
new book just out in London.
One of them concerns the burly
Wapping and Wagga butcher
who alleged that he was the
long-lost Roger Tichborne and
got 14 years for it. One of the
counsel opposed to him was
Hawkins, afterwards a Judge.
As he entered the court one
morning a lady handed the
Murrumbidgee liar a tract en-
titled “Sinner, Repent.” He
looked at it and wrote upon
the cover, “This must have been
meant for Hawkins,” and passed
it along the barristers’ table.
In England a policeman has
always to be on duty outside
the hotel where a Judge is stay-
ing while he is on circuit. Once
Justice Grantham came down
late at night to post some let-
ters in a neighboring pillar box.
He was wearing a tweed cap
well down over his head and
ears, and the drowsy bobby, not
recognising him, inquired, “I
say, has the old gone to
bed yet?” “No,” was the re-
ply. A quarter of an hour
later a window was raised, a head was pro-
truded. and a judicial voice cheerily ex-
claimed, “Constable, the old is going to
bed now.” And the Judge used the same
word as the bobby—the word defined by
Johnson’s Dictionary as “a term of endear-
ment among sailors.”
From a Hobart daily (24/4/T3) :
A London cable message announces the death of
Lord Gsrell, formerly President of the Probate,
Divorce and Adultery Division.
A yarn from The Bulletin’s Old Sol-
dier :
Someone in the March Fortnightly writes about
“Archdale Wilson, the Captor of Delhi.” It is one
of the usual attempts to set on a pedestal a highly
respectable, but very ordinary man who had the
misfortune to be placed in an exceptionally difficult
position. Colonel Archdale Wilson, of the Bengal
Artillery, was in command of the Meerut Brigade
when the mutiny broke out among the native troops
there one Sunday night in May, 1857. The muti-
neers—two infantry and one cavalry regiment—
broke away, and marched to Delhi—nearly 40 miles
—the same night. Wilson still had at his disposal
two very strong European regiments—one cavalry
and one infantry—and three batteries of artillery.
He never made the least attempt to pursue the run-
aways beyond sending out a party of horse-artillery
recruits to follow and watch them, and they picked
up quite a number of stragglers as prisoners. When
it is remembered that the Delhi Brigade, which was
all natives, did not mutiny till the Meerut Brigade
arrived on that Monday morning the significance of
the failure to pursue will be understood. Brigadier
Wilson said his first duty was to protect his own
station. Some weeks later Wilson was ordered to
march to Delhi with all his available men, and join
the Commander-in-Chief, who was collecting a force
to take the place. ' By the 18th July, through the
deaths of two generals, and the invaliding of a third,
he became Commander-in-Chief himself. Here is the
situation as he himself described it in a letter writ-
ten on the same date to John Lawrence:—
“The force consists at present of 2200 Europeans
and 1500 natives—or a total of 3700 bayonets, while
the insurgents are numberless, having been reinforced
by the mutinous regiments from every quarter.”
That was the simple truth as Wilson saw it at the
time. I was there, and though I was not in the
know any more than any other subaltern, I could
hear what was said, and see what was done by those
who knew. The Fortnightly writer wants to prove
that Wilson never proposed to retire from his posi-
tion before Delhi, and quotes the above letter as evi-
dence :—•
“I have determined to hold the position we now
have to the last, as I consider it of the utmost im-
portance to keep the Insurgents now in Delhi from
overrunning the country, or turning their arms
against the reinforcements coming up from below.”
That was a highly exaggerated view of the capa-
city and enterprise of the sepoys and their leaders.
Wilson had determined to hold his position to the
last, but only conditionally on his getting rein-
forcements, as he states near"the end of the letter:—
“I candidly tell you that unless speedily rein-
forced this force will soon be so reduced by casual-
ties and sickness that nothing will be left but a re-
treat to Kurnal. The disasters attending such an un-
fortunate proceeding I cannot calculate.”
Certainly he could not calculate the disasters that
would follow an attempt to retreat to Kurnal, a
place about 40 miles north of Delhi; it would have
been impossible for the simple reason that there was
no transport. Still, the danger was very great and
very near, as everyone in the camp on the ridge well
knew. Wilson was an old man, and was no hero.
It is not to be wondered at if his nerve sometimes
gave way. I was there, and I know. Wilson was
more than sufficiently abused at the time for his
weakness, but he managed to hold on, and finally
pulled the place out of the fire—otherwise he took
Delhi. He might have taken it sooner, as some
people said, and he might have broken down utterly
but he didn’t.
An item from “Hogan” :
President Woodrow Wilson is introducing all sorts
of innovations at the White House and casting time-
honored precedents to the winds. Ever since George
Washington’s time the President of the United
States has gone to theatres “on the nod,” but Wilson
has decided that he won’t nod. He paid 40 dollars
for the box he occupied at the first performance he
witnessed in his presidential capacity. Hitherto pre-
s l d e n t s have
thought it suffi-
cient to send a
stereotyped note
of thanks on the
day after the per-
formance. Wilson
has also flabber-
gasted Washing-
tonians by appear-
ing in public in a
grey sac suit in-
stead of the ortho-
dox and sunremelv
dreary black
frock coat and
striped trousers.
Why the President
was supposed to
wear striped trous-
ers it is hard to
sav, unless h e
was trving to look
like a tiger.
SEPPELT,
of Seppells-
field Vine-
yards (S.A.).
“Vic” writes:-
Ballarat’s best citizen, William Scott, has gone
mto the Benevolent Asylum. Over 50 years a lead-
ing man. A founder of Ballarat East; several times
mayor, and entertained the Duke of Edinburgh in
that capacity. A founder of the very Benevolent
Asylum to which the citizens lumber him. Once
had a great boot business. Like poor Graham
Berry and his grocery, his ruin came to pass through
devotion to the public interest. Member of munici-
pal council for 38 years. Did much service to the
hospital and orphanage. Senior Ballarat magistrate
prominent Mason (is Masonry dead?), pioneer of
Oddfellows (and hows this?); also, of fire brigade
and Water Commission, Government representative
on the Water Trust, Parliamentary returning-officer
for over 30 years. Stick all that up on the poor-
house wall. 1
Archbishop Kelly’s recent flrfvW ,
unions and guilds of Sydney to annn\ the
an office no man who had failed il f 1 to
business, recalls the fact that « hls OWn
ago the N. S. Wales
pointed as a committee to select aP-
tor Parliament three politicians) C wL dld u tes
all . absolutely failed in business Ou° u ad
paid 4s. in the f, another could not h^d
his own name, and the third-an exdJ in
—could not get credit enough in thl draper
houses to make another start the Ware '
EDITOR
TRITCHEIT
Launceston
Examiner
(Tas.).
John Gabriel O’Ryan, who died in Syd-
ney the other day, was one of the few
juniors at the N.S.W., or any other Bar,
who knew the startling experience of hav-
ing his leader fall dead in his arms while a
case was in progress. Edward Butler, Q.C.,
with whom O’Ryan often appeared, expired,
as stated above, in the Supreme Court before
Judge Faueett. John Gabriel was from Tip-
perary. He was called to the N.S.W. Bar
in 1876, and had himself dis-barred in 1894.
Thereafter he practised as a Gent. One.
From The Bulletin’s Oldest Inhabitant:
Two old Bathurst (N.S.W.) families have been
connected by marriage recently. At All Saints’,
Bathurst, on April 22, Horace Lee, second son of
the late Henry Lee and Mrs.. Lee, of Wallaroy, on
the Plains, was wedded to Miss Linda Rutherford,
fourth daughter of the deceased James Rutherford,
of Hereford, Kelso. The bridegroom is a grandson
of William Lee, who settled at Bathurst soon after
Macquarie crossed over the new-found track or road
devised by Captain Cox. Cox got Hereford, an estate
of 2000 acres, as his reward, and it passed to Ruth-
erford later on. William Lee represented Roxburgh
in the Legislative Assembly (1856-1859). James
Rutherford, an enterprising Amer can, settled in
Australia some 60 years ago and became associated
with Walter Hall and others in the big coaching
business of Cobb and Co.
THE COMPLEAT “LIBERAL."
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There is not much to say about Mr. J. F. Hannan,
the Labor candidate, who is opposing Mr. Fair-
bairn. His one claim for votes seems to be the
fact that he is the Labor party nominee.
The old member for Fawkner has a quite different
claim upon many residents for such suburbs as
Albert Park, Middle Park, South Yarra, Queen’s,
Prahran and South Melbourne. He has been a fine
athlete, and even now, with the cares of a busy life
upon him and the weight of many more years than
he appears to carry—he is 58 —few men would care
to tackle him with the gloves. He was a member of
the first Victorian intercolonial eight—a fact for
the rowing men of Albert Park and South Melbourne
to remember—and he was always a good hand at
other games, such as cricket and tennis. He •still
plays a good game of tennis on a Saturday afternoon.
—Argus. 25/4/T3.
My free and independent friends,
Ere you record your vote,
Each candidate cross-question, and
His answers duly note.
Be satisfied, beyond a doubt,
That he will give his best
Attention (and subscriptions) to
The sporting interest!
His views upon the empty North,
’ Defence, and things like that.
Need not concern us, if we know
He bowls well and can bat.
What gain to us though he should be
A sound Protectionist?
South Yarra will not stand him if
He proves a mug at whist!
His Referenda attitude
We need not seek to know;
What Albert Park’s in need of is
An M.P. who can row.
’Tis said this fellow, Hannan, is
An earnest candidate;
But, look at Fairbairn’s tennis, though
He’s over fifty-eight!
No, no, my friend, it will not do ;
The Labor man is “o8f.”
Why, hang it, I have eve> heard
The blighter does not “goff”!
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.
DRAWING THE LINE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Young (to female witness): “Did you ever
see any sandbagging going on?”—“No; there was
no sandbagging in my house!”
—Divorce Court evidence.
A little screamin’ now an’ then,
Some thuddin’ on th’ floor,
Would not disturb my gentlemen
Or start a rude uproar.
They wouldn't jump an’ run or swear,
If they ’eard fightin’ on th’ stair.
They’ve all been well brought up, I guess,
An’ wouldn’t interfere
In family unpleasantness
Over the supper beer.
A little fightin’ now an’ then
Don’t worry my young gentlemen!
You can’t expec' to keep an’ ’ouse
As quiet as th’ grave ;
My lodger gentlemen would rouse
If I just tried ter save
Th’ carpets an’ th’ walls. Good lor'!
Wot else are they intended for?
Mind yer! I wouldn’t let them do
A murder on th' mat,
Or kick each other black an’ blue,
Or do garrottin’ ! That
Is much too low an' under'and!
Sandbaggin’, too, I will not stand !
I am not narrer-minded. But
I like a ’ome that’s free
From p’leece an’ gents, that always cut
An’ run from ev’ry D.
I tells my gents, straight to their face
I don't like p’leece about ther place.
Good manners is a sort o’ gift
That very few ’ave got;
There’s very few I've ’ad ter shift —
But mine's a real picked lot,
An’ I’m partic’lar, too, yer know!
If they’ve got sandbags, out they go!
N.s.W.
KODAK.


-‘ ' pfwsarrtff-
-. '/JiSSSHf**-
r-£pgjS
/// /
#■ r- v.
f; N
-7/ //>
m? 7. !
,v.
■V-.-
W<3?>^
mW/M
S&SS
w
/V.
■£"/;
Y^-fWj
sr'J^
7 ;: - 77-
■•■ Wii*:*--.
eM:i‘S r ,C;■-.■£?
’Y
i y
r^iww
1 y*
■
d
KS!
74
M
m
"■ ■ " -•':77 •'
y-;w/
£
• ! *«
a»
tf777p
N
K
l\S
*.! :S
<!? :
.' •> §»
?•?
<
is
(_ -..'
(\T‘
71
}■ W
9
modern society.
ITS laws are inexorable. They insist on the Dress Suit and Dinner Jacket. At the uttermost
1 limit of civilisation and in all climes these hold sway for all dress occasions. We quote Dinner
Suits to measure, £4 4 s. to Bs. ; Dress Suits to measure, ss. to 9 s. Patterns and
self-measurement forms forwarded post free on application. We also carry a very select stock of
well-tailored Dinner Suits in our Ready-to-wear Department from 70s.
GOWING
Pioneer Distributors of Australian Goods,
184, 486, 488 & 490 George Street ; and 3,5, 7,9, 11, 13, 15 & 17 Royal Arcade, Sydney.


WORTHINGTON PUMP COMPANY LTD.
PUMPS—STEAM, AIR or MOTOR DRIVEN, CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS
CONDENSERS and COOLING TOWERS. GAS and OIL ENGINES and
GAS PLANTS. MINE VENTILATING FANS, AIR COMPRES-ORS
FEED WATER HEATERS & PURIFIERS. OIL & STEAM SEPARATORS.’
For Catalogues and
Information apply—
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY
if
SISKOL ” ROCKDRILLS
"SISKOL" HAMMERDRILLS.
“SISKOL” COALCUTTERS.
International Channelling Machines Ltd.
DIERCKS & CO. PROP. LTD.,
465 Collins St., Melbourne.
55 York St., Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Royal Bank of Australia (Mel-
bourne) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
Sept., 1904.. £7,-d3i 6 p.c. =->.4,500 £21,883 £40,303
Mar., 1905.. 8,335 6 „ „ 4,5 0 3,835 44,138
Sept., 1905.. 8,238 6 ~ ~ 4,500 3,738 47,876
Mar., 1906.. 10,072 7 ~ ~ 6,250 4,822 52,698
Sept., 1906.. 10,179 7 ~ ~ 5,250 4,929 67,627
Premiums on new shares .. 12,500 70,127
Mar., 1907.. 12,882 7 p.c. = 5,687 7,195 77,322
Sept., 1907.. 14,619 7 „ „ 7,000 7,619 84,941
Mar, 1908.. 13,517 7 ~ ~ 7,000 6,517 91,458
Sept., 1908.. 14,697 7 ~ ~ 7,000 7,697 99,155
Premiums on new shares .. 12,500 L 1,655
Mar., 1909.. 18,003 7 p.c. = 10,062 7,941 119,596
Sept., 1909.. 17,974 7 ~ ~10,500 7,474 127,070
Mar., 1910.. 18,549 7 „ ~ 10,500 8,049 135,119
Sept., 1910.. 18,844 7 ~ ~ 10,500 8,344 143,463
Mar., 1911.. 20,529 7 ~ „ 10,500 10,029 153,492
Sept., 1911.. 20,180 7 ~ ~ 10,500 9,680 103,172
Mar., 1912.. 22,771 8 ~ ~ 12,000 10,771 173,943
Sept., 1912.. 22,464 8 „ ~ 12,000 10,464 184,407
Mar., 19i3.. 23,052 8 ~ ~ 12,000 11,052 195,4.>9
Very few, if any, Australian banks show a more rapid
growth than the Royal of Melbourne. Ten years ago
its deposits totalled £690,303. Exclusive of Gov-
ernment money they now amount to £1,687,458.
Its current account credits now exceed the total of
the deposits of 1903, and that is a pretty good in-
dication of the sprint of the bank’s general business.
Partly by doubling its paid capital, which now stands
at £300,000, and partly by making liberal ad-
ditions to its reserves, its own funds have kept up
fairly well with the growth of the public’s money
in the business —and that is a most important thing
from the depositors’ point of view. They want their
money protected, and they get the best protection
from the bank which has the greatest proportion of
share capital and reserve funds, represented, of
course, by good assets. In this case the paid capital
and reserves amount to slightly over £1 for every
£6 of the public’s money, and that is a very solid
guarantee fund, and quite sufficient under all ordin-
ary circumstances. Further, 44 p.c. of the public’s
money is represented by liquid assets. In one way
and another, the Royal owes £2,231,084, and it has
£991,359 liquid; this leaves £1,239,725 of other
people’s money to be guaranteed by £1,747,184 of
non-liquid assets (advances, etc.). In other words,
there could be a slump of about ss. 6d. in the £
before the depositors, etc., would be in danger of
losing any of their money. There is no sure way of
telling what kind of assets the bank holds ; but from
the size of the interest return one wouldn’t suspect
that there were many unprofitable lame ducks in
the flock. Here are some figures:—
Profits as Compared with Sharf,holders’ Funds
Sept., 1909 £8 11 4 p.c. Sept.. 1911 £8 17 10 p.c.
Mar., 1910 8 13 9 „ Mar., 1912 9 16 8 „
Sept., 1910 8 13 3 „ Sept., 1912 9 9 7 „
Mar., 1911 9 5 2 „ Mar., 1913 9 10 4 „
Admittedly, this alone isn t much of a test of the
real quality of the assets, because a money-lender
might charge a high rate of interest to compensate
for the doubtful character of the security; still,
cutting out that possibility, the figures are worth
something.
The business has shown considerable expansion
during the year:—
Mar., 1912. Mar., 1913.
Notes in circulation.. £1,649 £1,256 Dec. £393
Bills in circulation .. 115,271 66,278 Dec. 48,993
Deposits at interest.. 1,337,018 1,398,474 Inc. 61,456
Free deposits.. .. 782,363 765,076 Dec. 17,287
Liquid assets .. ..1,094,389 991,359 Dec. 103,030
Advances .. .. 1,570,155 1,690,189 Inc. 120,034
Premises .. .. 57,700 56,995 Dec. 706
The Royal has thus had to draw on its liquid
assets to the extent of £103,030, in order to make
advances of £120,034, which means that little or
no public money has been flowing in. Fortunately,
this bank held a very large amount in liquid shapes
12 months ago, and has thus been able to accom-
modate its customers during the year to some ex-
tent ; but there are plenty of other banks which
were lending up to the limit of their capacity in the
boom times, and, therefore, have found it simply
impossible to do anything for even their best cus-
tomers during the recent period of scarce money.
And that is the sort of bank that the wise man will
fight shy of—-provided, of course, he is the average
man who is liable to want accommodation from his
banker now and then. There are banks which have
had to refuse temporary advances to good cus-
tomers, who have had fixed deposits of a larger
amount than the loans they have sought, to enable
them to complete advantageous business ; and banks
that put themselves in such a position that thev
are compelled to shake their heads and turn old
and presumably valued clients away at the very
start of a period of scarce money, are worth watch-
ing. The fact that the Royal was last year able
to increase its advances substantially, though there
was nothing coming in from the public, is first-
rate proof that it didn’t put itself in the afore-
mentioned corner. And, better still, it has 44 p.c.
of the deposits and other public money still re-
presented by cash and other liquid assets, so that it
still has some distance to go before it reaches the
danger line.
Nicholson and Co., Ltd., which took
over an old-established, but not well-organised music
business in Sydney about 4J years ago, and has since
been living the strenuous life: —
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Mar., 1909.. £3489 ,10 p.c. =£3ool £3BO £lOB £5,720
Mar., 1910.. 6463 10 ~ ~ 3446 201 2816 8,536
Sept., 1910.. 4424 10 ~ „ 2486 386 1552 10,088
Premiums on new shares, £2450 .. .. 12 538
Mar., 1911 6655 10 p.c. = 2876 1612 2167 14’,705
Premiums on new shares, £2960 .. .. 17,665
Sept., 1911.. 8151 10 p.c. = 3968 4183 21’,848
Premiums on new shares, £4016 .. .. 25,864
Mar., 1912.. 7241 10 p.c. = 5675 956 610 26,474
Sept., 1912.. 7773 Nil _ 7773 34,247
Mar., 1913.. 7302 3fp.c. = 5259 2043 36,290
This co. may be doing better than the figures—and
especially the dividend figures— suggest. It plunged
into the time-payment business on a comparatively
small capital ; and its turnover increased very rap-
idly. Unfortunately, money then became scarce;
hence the management has found it necessary to
hang on to more of the profits than it m'ght other-
wise have done. It takes a heap of capital to run
a time-payment concern; already there is £151,517
on the books to represent the unpaid balances under
hire-purchase agreements. And though the share
capital is £140,233, or more than twice as much as
the co. started with four years ago, an overdraft of
£44,728 has been accumulated, and trade and other
debts amount to £12,933. Six months ago, in view
of the rapid increase of the book debts under the
head of hire-purchase balances, the management en-
gaged the auditors (Yarwood, Vane and Co.) to
make a special report on this asset. On the whole,
vvnat they had to say was cheerful. Arrears were
found to be small—under 6 p.c.—and where for-
feitures had been made, the losses on re-sales were
not great, and “easily borne by the profits. - ’ Never-
theless, a tew changes were made in the direction
of requiring a 10 p.c. deposit and limiting the term
over which payments extend to three years: and
these changes must reduce the risks. The results,
certainly, have been disappointing so far, but no
doubt valuable experience has been gained. A life-
time of ordinary commercial training would leave a
man with a lot of things to find out about this par-
ticular kind of business; and the management has
been finding out a few of those things. There ought
, a i ot of raoney in presently. The co. has
got the turnover, which is some sort of proof that
its name is already widely known; it appreciates
the risks (there is good proof of that in its de-
clared policy to pay no more than 7$ p.c. p.a. until
it has accumulated £50,000 of reserves) : and it
has a big stock ( £60,116) out of which to make
future .Profits A further point in the shareholders’
favor is that not a penny of the capital and re-
serves is represented by goodwill or other paper
assets. Liven good management, there seems to be
every reason to expect satisfactory things. The
business is waiting to be done, and there are exitra-
Pr ° fitS though they will no doubt be
erratic—-especially until Australia gets out of the
vicious habit of promoting booms by borrowing in
furious spasms, and then plunging itself into gloom
by swearmg-off piously when it can’t continue the
jag any longer.
* * * *
bam?) l^- R ° YAL BANK 0F QUEENSLAND (Bris-
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
t r Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves
du " e > iftE' - £9 ’ 673 P- c ’ = £B - 463 £ 1210 £65,992
Dec., 05.. 9,896 3£ ~ ~ 8,168 ]4->8 67 490
•June, 06.. 10,016 3} ~ „ 8,468 _ 1548 68 968
V ec “ OS- • 10 > 983 4 „ 9,711 £l5OO 68^690
June, 07.. 11,246 4 „ „ 9,790 _ 1456 70 146
Dec., ’07.. i 2 ,626 4J „ „ 11,162 1600 464 70610
Mar., ,08.. 6,305 4£ ~ ~ 5,709 596 71 206
Sept. , 08.. 12,768 4£ ~ ~ 11,597 1171 79*377
Mar.’ 09.. 12 , 707 41 ~11,719 —* 988 73 365
SePt-.W.. 12,8-6 H „ „ 11,864 - 962 74 327
Mar., 10.. 13,211 4} ~ 12,100 mj 75 438
mT/-’! *l* M ”’’ 12 > 228 - 76,*548
£' 5 ” ” 13 ’ 746 1000 391 76,939
mV ' - ’’ ” 13 - 931 1500 155 77,094
* ” ” 14 ’ 15ti 1900 313 77,407
mV ’- .r - l " >' 14 '‘ 2fi0 1500 97 77,504
Mar., 13.. 15,413 5 ~ „ 14,289 1500 77,128
™Vu is ° T “ e 0f , the .f°" slow bank s Of the Comm'on-
WV ' u-V w ® nt Bwlf tly once, and was sorry for a
when T?V e n afte T ar , df V For some reason °r other,
when the Queensland boom broke, the Royal didn’t
R« V< W th ?‘ r °ugh cleaning-up; on the one side of
ks xt * kept / lot of over-valued and unpro-
W- nf hIT ’ V K °" the other a corresponding
« capital. In consequence it has had to
Sf le , tO , supply live capital out of profits that
either hasn t been disclosed or, if disclosed has
been written off. The trouble in a case of this
V t lat you nover know how big the hole is
that has to be filled up. The profit earned by capital
ff ,V fV VeS I , combl P ed ought to give some idea: if
t is a small profit—3 p.c. for instance—it is a
pret , ty , s4r ° n £ bint that the assets are not what thev
?n gkt be- ?". the other han d, if the earnings are
are wnrth P '9o xta Dret „ ty ?ood si S n that the assets
are worth 20s. in the £ of their book value and
VtV VVTV But , wher l y ? u aspect that a bank
is makin„ 5 p.c. when it shows only 3 p.c., you
are thrown back into the dark—though, of course
inVhat ? ues , s , then that there are still fome skeletons
Vh tH flli k T cupboard which it is busy clothing
with flesh. The Bulletin admits frankly that it
doesn t know how the Queensland Royal stands It
only knows that disclosed profits have steadily moved
V’VT VV 73 - t0 £l5 - 413 eight years; and,
hab-bT ft h tVVV tV f° n f° f i the nianagement’s cautious
namts, it takes that steady move to be a hint that
things inside have been gradually getting better
Moreover, for the past 21 years the bank has been
putting something aside regularlv to the credit of
a Contingency Fund—not included with the visible
reserves and this seems to be another hint that it
feels m a position now, not onlv to provide for past
bad and doubtful debts, but also to put by some-
nng against possible losses on current business.
Nevertheless, the admitted earnings are still dis-
tinctly on the small side:—
Profits Compared with Shareholders’ Funds
Sept, 1909 £4 8 3 p.c. Sept., 1911 £5 2 2pc
Mar 1910 4 911 „ Mar., 1912 5 310
M Pt ’ 4 9 9 .» Sept., 1912 5 2 4 ”
a , r ’’ 1911 5 1 . 0 „ Mar., 1913 419 2 „
But those comparatively small earnings are not alto-
f'VV’j’ tb V re l ult of having some poor assets still
mixed with the good ones. A bank doesn’t take
deposits for the fun of the thing: it expects to make
™ n s f out of V em ’ aml the bigger the deposits in
proportion to the capital and reserves, the higher
the rate of earnings, calculated on capital and
reserves, should be. Now this bank’s deposits "n
wm '° n V ! ts ° wn funds are particularly small.
■V 1 a® l ? l6 hanks the proportion runs up to Bto 1 •
+ °ne it stands at present at only £2
n t 0 £1 : Moreover, the proportion of the
public s money kept m liquid shapes, and therefore
figured first ■—° r nothlng ’ is verv hi&h - Take these
March, ’l2. March, ’l3.
Bills and notes £16.195 £9,148 Dec. £7,047
Deposits, etc. .. 1,500.846 1,503,894 Inc. 3 048
I'HT'id assets .. 577,017 709,304 Inc jao’ooy
Advances .. 1,497,098 1,366,393 Dec. 130,705
Premises .. 74,296 74,391 Inc 95
There you have £1,513,042 of the public’s money in
the business, and no less than £709,304, or 47 pc.
ot it liquid. If the assets were auite ’ good right
through, the two facts mentioned above, taken to-
gether, would account for comparatively poor earn-
ings ; so it is no longer necessary to assume that
the assets stand in the books at much above their
true value Assuming, then, that the capital is now
represented by assets that are worth not far short of
20s. m the £ the position is good, and in some
respects remarkably good. So far as depositors are
concerned, they are protected, not only by the large
amount of liquid, assets, but by an unusually large
proportion of capital; and so far as shareholders are
concerned, they have the satisfaction of knowing that
they have provided sufficient foundations for a "much
bigger business. It is all to the credit of the man-
agement that it hasn’t snrinted violently after that
much bigger business during the recent reign of hi°fi
values., for a period of high values generally means
a period of poor securities and much whipping of
the cat afterwards.
The Bank of Adelaide (S. Australia) :
March, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves
1899 ..£33,026 7 p.c. = £28,000 £5,026 £18" 988
1900 .. 38,413 8 „ „ 32,000 6,413 187 401
1901 .. 48,097 8 ~ „ 32,000 16,097 ?03’498
1902 .. 45,925 8 ~ „ 32,000 13.925 217 423
1903 .. 52,317 8 „ „ 32,000 20,317 037V40
1904 .. 47,337 8 „ „ 3 >,OOO 15 337 253 077
1905 .. 47,876 8 „ „ 32,000 15,876 268’.953
1006 .. 46,286 8 ~ „ 32,000 14.286 283*939
1907 .. 56,265 8J ~ ~ 31,000 22,265 305*504
1908 .. 56.510 9 ~ ~ 36,000 20,510 396 014
1909 .. 52,694 9£ ~ ~ 38,000 14.694 340*708
1910 .. 66,130 10 ~ „ 40,000 26.130 366!«38
Premiums on new shares .. 50,000 416 838
1911 .. 79,648 10 p.c. = 45,000 34,648 451 486
1912 .. 80,598 10 ~ „ 50,000 30,598 482*084
1913 .. 81,138 10 ~ ~ 50,000 31,138 613,222
For its size, S. Aus. has a remarkable lot of rich
people—not millionaires, but sol d five- and six-
figure men, who have got their fat out of one sort
of farming or another. Among that class this bank
is It. There is no other S. Aus. bank left; there
were a couple, but the locusts have eaten them.
And though a man may be nothing of a State
Brighter, and may put Australia first and any small
section of Australia second, he is quite likely to be
able to see some advantage in having a head office
Board and a general manager on the spot. There
may come a time when he may have to appeal to
C*sar, and he naturally sees some possible advan-
tage in being able to whisper into Caesar’s ear per-
sonally. So, one way and another, though this
bank has no branches outside its own State, apart
from the one in London, it has accumulated a fine
business; and no doubt because it can watch that
business well, the profits are very fine, too. Which-
ever way you look at them the figures are good.
Take a few to go on with:—
Liabilities.
Mar., 1912. Mar., 1913.
Notes in circulation.. £28,049 £1(5,801 Dec.£ll,B4B
Bills in circulation .. 192,890 275,358 Inc. 82,468
Deposits, etc. ..4,591,125 4,155,320 Dec. 435,805
Assets.
Liquid assets.. ..2,199,087 2,393,505 Inc. 194,418
Advances .. ..3,536,154 2,986,570 Dec. 549,584
B remises .., .. 84,506 105,627 Inc. 21,121
Liabilities thus amount to £4,447,479; and
£2,393,505, or no less than 54 p.c. of the total
is represented by liquid assets. That indicates an
extraordmar.lv strong position. But the real posi-
tion, though no doubt still strong, is hardly likely
to be so good. The fact is, this bank is banker to
the S. Aus. State Government, and, especially in
a time of furious borrowing, the State balances are
liable to seriously affect the posit.on. A truer esti-
mate may, perhaps, be got from the quarterly aver-
ages (March quarter)
~ 1912. 1913.
Deposits .. .. ..£3,268,202 £3,314,860
Advances . . . . 2,563,886 2,357,251
Coin, bullion and Aus-
tralian notes.. .. 657,117 751,250
This covers S. Australian business onlv. Which-
ever figures you take, the nroportion of liquid re-
serves is high, and the proportion of capital and
accumulated profits, compared with deposits and
other liabilities, is large; and those two facts,
coupled w.th the excellent rate of earnings and the
large amount of profit laid by, brand the Bank of
Adelaide as thoroughly deserving the pride of the
solid little city which has reared and cultivated it.
* * * *
The Farmers’ Co-operative Auctioneer-
ing Co. (Waikato, M.L.) ;
Bonus
Dividends and Written
Profits. (8 p.c.). Rebate. Off. Reserves.
1910 . . .££ 492
1911 .. £10,470 £4538 £2534 £750 8M39
1912 .. 14,696 7336 2965 1000 11,534
Premiums on shares .. £459 11 993
1913 .. 18,922 9832 4326 16,757
This co. was formed in Waikato (M.L.), with head-
office at Hamilton, six years ago, to carry on an
auctioneering and general commission business among
farmers, ihe district is fertile and has developed
rapidly, and partly through purchases of other
business the turnover has taken long and vigorous
leaps. But though other businesses have been incor-
porated, no goodwill item appears among the assets,
[here may be something hidden in the property
account, £16,508; but if so it can be only a trifle,
and this is an excellent feature of the proposition.
A more doubtful one is the very rapid growth of
the book debts and the consequent increase of the
co. s own indebtedness. Here are a few compara-
tive figures:—
„ .. , J 1911. 1912. 1913.
Capital and reserves .. £86,338 £139,969 £161,107
Liabilities .. .. 72,872 75,285 93,173
I roperty accounts . . 19,702 18,879 17,625
Book debts . . . . 136,688 195,839 236,838
stoc k . . . . 5,092 6,922 8,794
Cash 231 114 24
These figures are as at Jan. 31 in each case, and
before the annual appropriations of profit are made.
Thus for the past year the co. divides £14,158-
and a cash balance of £24 isn’t much to face the
payment with. The co. is plainly trading to the
utmost of its fair capacity, if not beyond it. Cer-
tainly, besides the reserves shown in the first table
there is now a reserve of £11,500 for bad and doubt-
ful debts. This amount has been accumulated out of
earnings not shown above as profits. It may be a
very good reserve; anyway, the management in
accumulating such a reserve at this rate seems alive
to the possibility of a considerable slump in values
in the districts in which the co. trades. And when
the co. piles up its book debts so fast it is more
than a hint that credit is free in the Waikato; and
whenever and wherever credit is free it is pretty safe
to look for inflated values; and after that it’s only
a question of time for the bump to arrive. Apart
from that, things look all right. Especially for a
co-operative co., reserves have been permitted to
grow rapidly, which is another way of saying that
dividends and bonuses have been kept within reason-
able bounds. And that policy ought to continue.
If the co. had any large proportion of its capital in
well-bought freeholds or stock, or in gilt-edged securi-
ties there would of course be less cause for anxiety.
But all its own money and £60,000 besides is repre-
sented by outstanding accounts, including p.n.’s, etc.,
and the chances are that a whole lot of those debtors
are people who have bought land on terms at high
rates. It’s a case where careful management is im-
peratively called for —with very solid reserves to back
that management up.
* * * *
“Shareholder”: Re F. W. Hughes, Ltd.
(B. 24/4/M3). The Bulletin evidently isn’t ac-
quainted with the full facts of the case in connection
with that 6 pc. dividend. True, the director’s re-
port declared it; but a week after the meet'ng, the
shareholders each got_ a circular to the effect that
“the directors, in view of the present stringent
financial situation and of the commitments of the
company in the near future, decided to defer, for a
time, the distribution of the dividend;' Meantime
vour account will be credited with the amount which
will be due to you.” And you can take mv word
for it, as one who knows a little of the inside run-
ning, that the shareholders’ chances of getting that
6 p.c. between now and to-morrow morning are ex-
ceedingly remote.
The Adelaide Steam Tug Co. (S. Ans.) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1906.. £4040 12| p.c. = £3600 £440 £9,258
Dec., 1906.. 3931 10 ~ ~ 28<>0 1131 10,389
June, 1907.. 6196 I°3 ~ ~ 3600 2596 12,985
Dec., 1907.. 5912 12| ~ ~ 3600 2312 15.297
June, 1908.. 5971 20 ~ ~ 5600 371 15 668
Dec., 1908.. 5407 10 ~ ~ 2800 2607 18,275
June, 1909.. 1420 5 ~ ~ 1400 20 18 295
Dec., 1909.. 3801 8 ~ ~ 2240 1561 19,856
June, 1910.. 3714 10 „,, 2800 914 20,770
Dec., 1910.. 1945 10 ~ ~ 8800 19 915
June, 1911., 3092 8 ~ ~ 2240 852 20,767
Dec., 1911,. 3299 10 ~ ~ 2800 499 21,266
June, 1912.. 1841 5 ~ ~ 1400 441 2R707
Dec.. 1912.. 4008 10 ~ ~ 2800 1208 22,915
Like most shipping cos. this one leaves you to find
out for yourself what allowance has been made for
depreciation. At June, 1912, “12 tugs and
launches” stood in the books at £23,210. At
December 31 the item had dropped to £22,630, so
that in the six months the book value has shrunk
£5BO, which is just on 5 p.c. p.a. The other ship-
property item at June was “17 hulks and barges as
lighters, £16,469.” Now it is 18 ditto at £18,135
an increase of one lighter and £1666. This writer
isn t an expert valuator of hulks and barges, still
unless the hulk lately acquired is something extra-
special, he doubts if enough has been chipped off
the item to allow for depreciation. The new hulk
(if there ever was such a thing as a new hulk) mav
of course, have cost £5OOO, and in that case the
allowance for the depreciation of
would be solid—it would amount h to ot n er v. 17 1 "*
ence between the £5OOO and tk “j 1 the differ-
But that isn’t likelv • anv«, a£ ° r ® mentionef J
noticed that the co. itself isn’t u w hl 1*
valuing a barge or hulk at much ol" the habit f| {
\ u ,?f an , d launches seem much bett " n 0 '
Although the co. doesn’t rely whollv Pr ° Vlbecl for-
receipts—it does a fairly lar-e 0n tow ag<‘
and passenger service—its chief fncomT - busines «
times, is from the tuas Wh«i income, ln goori
heavy, and wheat and wool °‘u PS are
the tugs do a roaring trade; Wwhen b ' B , shl PPed,
wool are scarce, the income from thu Wbeat and
and the table shows what happmf C™ , sinks ’
how receipts vary is given bv these ® me 1(J <* of
ber, 1911, £5124; June 19V J\os D( *em-
-1912, £4620, and no one can sav ,W 2 ; . D ® cember ,
to happen next. The cash positfon is Lr 8 goin e
bilities, £1585 ; assets (exclus ve of =k- lg: bia ‘
perty), £35,428. This includes a mf PP ? g P">-
£lBl7 suspense, pending a taxation Inn < ? oubttul
position is certainly sound ; and as far K ’ The
can see although there have been 3B one
shareholders have never gone humJrv- . th(i
the construction and steady and > though
Outer Hurbor h„ d.ubtte/ “
to the co., there is no reason at all dl “ e rence
it will crumple up in the near*future* 6XpeCt tbat
* *
The Queensland Co-operatt™ * n
Stores, Ltd. (Brisbane), registered • CASH
began business some months later with a rtL * 9ll,
(brokerage, «c„ AJgf £&£***«
Writ-
Dividend ten
1911. . !1 S - an<l nus - off - Deflcir.
-1912.. £1583 Nil
Goodwill items added, £37 25*2
1913 •• 2597 Nil 109’ - L 6??
Though Brisbane had one little co-operative store-
keeping business the promoters of this mn
thought the city was due for something Lore pre"
tentious A co. was therefore projected in 100 00ft
shares, but only 32,720 of them had been traded off
by the end of the first year. Then a struggle to “t
in calls commenced; and it has evidently been a
tough one. “Of the 2800 shareholders on the regis
9000 says . the last directors’ report, “no less than
reaching ° f tbair indebtedness
reaching £8536. Naturally enough the directors
are annoyed about it, and are taking “stringent
measures to enforce payment of all overdue cads
including interest.” It doesn’t sound promising’
The directors may get a few shillings of capital
from the erring shareholder in that way but
it isn t likely to turn him into a customer
—and contented custom is what this co. wants
just as much as capital. And perhaps the
erring shareholder has cause to be annoyed as
well as the directors. Anyway, the directors them-
selves admit that things were badly run—they had
to make a complete re-organisation of the staff and
as ‘the manager has also improved the tone of the
store, shareholders may now depend upon receiving
that civility and attention to which they are en-
titled.” Theoretically co-operation in trading is the
only sensible thing. The 5000 housekeepers who can
easily keep a big store going, and by paying cash
can get the benefit of trade discounts, are fools if
they don’t want to save the fat profits that half a
dozen middlemen would make out of the job of sup-
plying them. But it isn’t so easy as tripping over
tlie mat at 11.55 p.m. The men who promote co-
operative businesses are not, as a rule, men who are
running successful trading businesses; and prettv
often they don’t see the need to pay the price of "a
man who has proved that he can run a successful
business. This niggardliness, coupled with too much
amateur control, is the cause of most co-operative
failures. It has brought the Melbourne Stores into
shallow water ; and if this co.’s Board doesn’t look
out it will get into the same awkward place. The
next couple of years will be a critical time. The
d rectors, of course, promise great changes. For in-
stance, “the excessive stock hitherto accumulated
will shortly become a thing of the past”; also “a
property has been purchased in South Brisbane, on
which a bulk store and stabling have been erected.
The property also comprises two cottages.” The paid
capital, by the way, is £10,158; and, as shown
above, a good deal of it only exists now on paper.
It may be a good thing to reduce stock in order to
attract custom ; but this paper has its doubts. Also
it has its doubts whether the co. is in a position to
buy property which “also comprises two cottages.”
It will be a tragedy if this effort to extend co-
operative trading fails, and those Brisbane people
who believe in co-operation are under some sort of
obligation to give it a hand ; but they will have to
give the management an eye at the same time.
The Young Co-operative Flour Milling
Co. (N.S.W.) :
Written To Re- Re-
Nov., Profit. Dividends. Off. serves. serves.
1902.. £16,757 10 p.c. =£lsoo £566 £14,691 £21,126
Loss.
1913.. 801 10 ~ ~ 1500 417 18,408
Profir.
1904.. 2,815 15 „ „ 2250 503 92 18,500
Loss.
1905.. 63 7i ~ ~ 1125 391 16,921
Profii.
1906.. 2,032 10 ~ „ 1500 371 161 17,082
1907.. 6,771 25 ~ ~ 3750 362 2.659 19,741
1908.. 3,877 20 ~ ~ 3000 349 528 20,269
1909.. 11,687 30 ~ „ 4500 675 6,512 26,781
£15,000 transferred to capital .. 11,781
Loss.
1910.. 2,308 5 p.c. = 1500 644 7,329
1911.. 629 5 ~ ~ 1500 313 4,887
Profit.
1912.. 5,651 7h „ „ 2250 4SI 2,920 7,807
The actually-paid capital is £15,000, and the
£15,000 transferred a few years back brings it to
the present £30,000, making the dividend really
15 p.c. Some idea of the gamble the co. is in can
be got from the first column in the table which
heads these belated remarks. Though Australia has
had an unbroken run of six or seven good seasons,
this co., through no fault of the management beyond
its inability to prophesy with accuracy, showed a
loss of £2308 in 1910 and a further loss of £629
in 1911. Last year it got back to a profit, and no
one would put his hand on his vest and swear that
the co. will repeat the performance next year. The
back-country miller has to get in early, or else
stand the extra cost of cartage back from Sydney;
and when a co. buys wheat forward it runs a lot
of risks. Say the co. buys in August in expectation
of a bad crop in December, and pays a high price.
Crops in other countries show up unexpectedly, and
down comes the price of wheat, and along with it
the price of flour. And that, of course, means heavy
losses for the miller. But, on the other hand, things
might be the reverse, and the figures for 1909 show
the result. The Young co. is in a strong position
financially. Liabilities stand for only £374, while
assets, other than plant, land and buildings, stand
at a very respectable £25,763. So unless there hap-
pens along a bad year equal in badness to the bad-
ness of all the bad years so far rolled into one, the
to be able to stand the strain.
“K” writes: The new tinfield of Ardle-
than (N S.W.) got a stab in the back at Bal-
larat (Vic.) last week. At a meeting of the White
Crystal Co., Ardlethan, it was deeded to form a
company of 120,000 shares, the vendors and lease-
holders to collar half of them, and also annex
£23.800 in cash. Everything over £26,000 put
up by the public for their 60,000 shares “will be
accounted flotat'on expenses.” The net result of the
annexation is that after paying £6200 to the lease-
holders, the microscopic sum of £2200 will go to
working account to develop the leases. So far the
tale is only half told. A managing director was ap-


In Choosing an Executor
it is most important to look for
EXPERT KNOWLEDGE, SECURITY AND
ECONOMICAL MANAGEMENT.
These can only be obtained by appointing
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited).
It has been established 26 years, and has
administered thousands of estates.
The Security is Undoubted, and
the Charges Fixed and Low.
Write for Booklet giving full information.
2, 4 and 6 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
A. J. MACKENZIE, Manager.
TRUST FUNDS TO LEND ON APPROVED
SECURITIES AT FROM 5 PER CENT.
mm
Gas Engines.
Suction Gas Plants.
EFFICIENCY. ECONOMY.
KYNOCH LTD.,
Melbourne.
Brisbane.
Sydney.
Perth.
A great mistake, when erecting new works or re-
arranging old ones, is often made in constructing the
building and installing machinery ere looking round
for means of transport of the raw material, half-
manufactured and finished goods. Messrs. Adolf
Bleichert and Co., of London, have issued various
catalogues and leaflets, illustrating and describing a
few of the many transport systems and plants which
they have supplied, and which show the solution of
the transport question and the advantages of em-
ploying such appliances. W. and J. Lempriere,
Melbourne and Sydney, are the Australian representa-
tives, and would be pleased to hear from those in-
terested. A specially trained engineer is retained to
consult and advise.*
Mine managers and engineers contemplating Re-
inforced Concrete construction should write for par-
ticulars of the Indented Steel Bar, which gives the
greatest bond, and is the strongest and cheapest re-
inforcement on the market. Used by the N. S.
Wales and Queensland railways for bridges, by the
Sydney Water and Sewerage Board for elevated re-
servoirs, by the N. S. Wales Government Architect,
and by all the leading architects. Should guaranteed
designs be required for concrete structures, our ex-
pert will be pleased to furnish plans and descrip-
tions. Apply, Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.*
In all smithing work high-class iron can be more
safely manipulated at varying temperatures than
steel or ordinary iron. It is for this reason that
Best Yorkshire Farnley Iron is preferred by engi-
neers, where toughness, great strength and close
grain are needed. Whatever the specification, Iron
of the Farnley type does not vary, but is simply the
best that can be produced from what is really
wrought iron. “Farnley” Bars of all sections sup-
plied from local stock bv Sole Agents of the Farnley
Iron Comp., Ltd. Bell's Asbestos, Ltd., 315 Kent
Street, Sydney.*
* * * *
From June to September the Bacchus Marsh Shire
Council (Vic.) crushed and spread 3000 cub. yds. of
road metal, at an average cost of 2s. 6d. per cub.
yd., and the cost of the spalls per cub. yd. averaged
2s. 4d., making a total cost of 4s. lOd. per cub. yd.,
broken and spread. Their last contract under the
hand-breaking system amounted to 6s. Sd. per cub.
yd., stacked on the roadside, and spreading Is. ;
total 7s. 3d., as against 4s. lOd.— a saving of 2s. sd.
per cub. yd. This result was obtained by using a
Bigelow 16in. x 9in. Patent Stonecrusher, and the
Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
manufacturers of these breakers.* [3
* * * *
Extract from The Insurance Record, London, Sep-
tember 22, 1911: “To have written insurances for
£5,550,000 (Ordinary, Industrial and Accident) in
a year whicn was marked by the keenest competition
from beginning to end, is an achievement which
proves that the Colonial Mutual is a force to be
reckoned with in every sphere to which its influence
extends.”*
PIONEER WOOD PIPE m.ay be used wherever
any kind of liquid has to be carried. Made in sizes
from 3in. upwards, it can be fitted to existing mains,
and may be tapped under pressure by unskilled
labor. 'The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Balmain
(N.S.W.), and Footscray (Vic.).*
For all situations where water is scarce, Deane and
Beale’s consummate Evaporative Condensers are
efficient and economical for condensing exhaust
steam, and show a saving in fuel and water consump-
tion from 30 to 50 pc. See p. 3. Australian
representatives: Haes and F.ggers, Ltd., 163 Clarence
Street, Sydney.*
* * * *
Harringtons Ltd. are now in a position to quote
the lowest fees for all kinds of assay, analytical and
metallurgical work. Expert advice on ore treatment,
smelting, bullion, refining, etc. This firm have now
a most up-to-date and completely fitted laboratory,
directed by a first-class analyst from Johnson and
Sons, London, assayers to the Bank of England,
H.M. Mint, The Council of India, etc. Any work of
the above nature entrusted to this reliable firm of
photographic manufacturers will receive immediate
and prompt attention. For full particulars and
prices apply to Harringtons, Ltd., 380 George Street,
Sydney. *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting ?
If so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Pate it
Attorneys, for information. Address, 163 King Street,
Sydney.* [1
* * * *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific apnliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
Messrs. Babcock & Wilcox, Ltd., have received
the order for the supply of all the steam generating
plant and accessories for the electrification of the
Victorian Government Railways. The acceptance of
this firm’s tender was strongly recommended by Mr.
Merz, the English expert. The contract amounts to
£258,000.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Assayers, Mine Managers and Prospectors write
to H. B. Silberberg and Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, and at Melbourne, for particulars concerning
mining requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s
disc pulverisers to 200 mesh ; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospector’s balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles: chemicals; etc.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout tho Empire.
Monobcl
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
pointed at £5OO a year for se\en years. He is a
permanent resident of Ballarat—a place 994 miles by
rail from the mine. Five directors were voted
£6OO a year as directors’ fees, on the plea that
such fees had been too low in Ballarat for many
years past. For a mine in the prospecting stage to
pay £llOO a year for seven directors, only three
of whom Lve on the spot, is to establish a record
in the guinea-pig industry. It is proposed to float
a pup in 120,000 shares at 10s., and keep £lO,OOO
cash and 60,000 shares for the White Crystal Co.
shareholders; of course, fully paid-up. On top
of this riot of generosity with other people’s money,
the meeting resolved, on the motion of two of the
directors, “to recommend the White Crystal d’rectors
to make a cash bonus to the managing director in
recognition of his services in floating the company.”
Now the puhlie are wondering what really was paid
for brokerage commission and other incidental exes.
Summed up, this is a bad baptism for a good tin-
field.
* * * *
Of course, some of the Ardlethan shows
<N.S.W.) are rich at and near the surface. Also,
it is quite possible—in fact, probable—that a few
•of them will turn out to be mines. But, giving all
that in, there is need for an extra amount of caution
in touching this field. The old Cornish miner’s say-
ing about tin is always worth remembering, and
specially well worth remembering just now: “Where
”tis, there ’tis.” It is the trickiest of all the com-
mon industrial metals. And the lode tin mine is
particularly tricky. After J. S. Reid and his friends
had made a pot of money out of Broken Hill, thev
sailed in gaily to make another pot out of Euri-
owie and Waukaroo. There were fine lodes on the
surface of both of these fields on the outskirts of
the Barrier. Tens of thousands were spent on the
properties; and batteries and dressing plants were
put up. The reports that have been written about
Ardlethan are poor things compared with those that
gladdened the hearts of the Euriowie speculators.
But those speculators never got a dividend. Over
50 companies and syndicates were formed in Ade-
laide, Melbourne and Broken Hill, and every single
one of them petered out ignominiously. Some of the
men who had got their experience at those fields
were next sent on up to North Queensland to battle
•with Stannary Hills. That was a great property—
or group of properties. The prospects were so fine
that an expensive tramway was built to carry away
the profits. Profits were made—they rolled out for
a time—but the mines sucked them all up again.
A quarter of a million was dropped over that group.
But there is always the Vulcan to throw at the men
who don’t trust tin lodes. Certainly the Vulcan has
a good, long record. But it was capitalised at a
figure that the Ardlethan boomsters would laugh at;
and so with all the other North Queensland lode tin
mines that have been gouged at a profit. This
merely repeated the history of Tingha (N.S.W.).
On all Australian experience', lode tin mining is a
game for the gambler, and if a man isn’t prepared
to take big chances in return for prizes that don’t
promise to be colossal in any case, he had much
letter stand out.
• * * *
The prospectus of the Southern Cross
Tin Mining Co., Ardlethan, leaves a bad taste in
the mouth. The capital is £50,000 in 100,000
10s. shares; the vendors get 50,000 paid and £6OOO
in cash for 22 acres, without, so far, any proof of
payable ore; 50,000 shares are offered at 2s. 6d on
application and 2s. 6d. on allotment, with 6d. calls;
but the co. is a no liability concern, so £12,500
is all that can be depended on. The co. can go to
allotment on 40,000 shares, producing £lO,OOO,
leaving £4OOO after the £6OOO is bitten off. The
alleged mines are to be developed on what is left of
the £4OOO “after payment of brokerage, prelimin-
ary and flotation expenses,” and the balance of the
£4OOO is also “to pay for concentration plant and
water conservation.” The prospectus further states
that capital will be forthcoming from ore to be won
from the mine, but when the present writer was
down the best of its shallow shafts the other day,
the Southern Cross had not developed a hundred-
we:ght of shipping ore, and very little of any other
sort of ore either. Nevertheless, in a burst of
generosity, the vendors agree that all ore won from
the mine is to go to a trust account as from April
1, which is a well-chosen day to start on. There
are two holes down 20ft and 25ft. respectively, and
the prospectus states that “there is every indica-
tion of lodes being developed in these shafts.” Mr.
W. J. Young, M A., “certified geolog’st, Science
and Art Department, London.” is a director, and
provides the only report on the property. “I have
again visited the claims,” he says, “and examined
a new formation just discovered in the 25ft. shaft.
This consists of the capping of an outcrop 14ft.
wide of decomposed porphyry and kaol-'n, contain-
ing tin.” The “capping” and the “outcrop” at a
depth of 25ft., and the 14ft. of width in a shaft
4ft. wide, will be hard to beat. By the wav, Mr.
Young, as mentioned just now, who is a director,
also provides the report on the property. Who is
the vendor ?
* * * *
Tongkah Harbor, with five dredges work-
ing, shows a satisfactory record for the half-year to
March 31:—
Value
Tin per Value
Cub. yds Won, cub vd., Value per
Treated, tms. lb. of tin. cub. yd.
12 Months to
Sent.. 1912 3,157,549 1385 ‘9B £153,465 U‘66d.
6 Months to
Mar., 1913 1,740,270 686 -88 84,474 11'7d.
Taking a six months’ average on the year’s figures
in the first line, it will be seen that while the dredges
worked more hours this half-year and treated more
ground, the total production of tin was lower; while,
on account of the verv high price of tin, the value
per cubic yard has advanced slightly. The co. has
let tenders for a sixth dredge, which should begin
building some time in June. So that although the
current half-year won’t be much affected by the new
dredge, next six months should feel the benefit.
* * * *
Miner: (1) Co. is in 1,750.000 2s. shares.
(2) “Welcome” nugget weighed 22180 z. gross, and
was worth £8376 Merton G. (M.L.) : Thomas
McPherson and Sons, 554 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Mount Morgan (Q.) shares put on 10s. (or
a little rise of half a million for the lot) in a
month. Speculators in Sydney caught on because a
large block of shares, originally owned by the Hall
family, have been taken off the market by a strong
financial group in London and Melbourne. The
monthly returns are likely to improve when the
new smelter is put in commission. Revenue for the
first quarter of this year was £252,844. As costs
have aggregated over £700,000 a year (half-year to
May 31, £387,586) for the last two years, it isn’t
safe to expect that more than 30 p.c. of the gross
revenue will be profit. The official reports say re-
markably little about development work, although
it is known that the diamond drill has been boring
west of the winze at the 1050 ft. level. Mount
Morgan is a difficult mine to handle because the
ground is heavy, and square set timbering and close
filling, don’t altogether obviate the danger of another
creep. Still the workings are comparatively shallow
compared with many other copper mines. So
there is plenty of room for development below
1050 ft.
Charters Towers (Q.) continues very dull.
Crushings have been disappointing. Its pet propo-
sition, the Brilliant Deeps, was boomed to 30s. a
while back. Its crushing of 718 tons returned the
lowest average (£3 9s. per ton) since the deep
shoot of stone was met with. With so much de-
velopment work in hand, dividends seem to be out
of the question for some time to come. New Queen
Cross has also failed to hold its position in the
share market. The Papuan holding the next lease on
the Moonstone line crushed 411 tons for an average
yield of £6 19s. Id. The Papuan was unfortunate
in having its engine shed destroyed by fire, and has
had to install a new plant. Levels are being ex-
tended to the north-east in the hope of meeting with
another shoot of payable stone. The reef is at its
best to the south-west of the shaft, particularly the
hanging-wall shoot, which made good in the New
Queen Cross. The latter is now well equipped to
raise stone at a moderate cost, but the tonnage as
yet proved in the mine is very limited.
An inspection f the North Mount Lyell
(Tas.) is to be m ...e by Alexander Montgomery, a
well-known mining man from Westralia. At the
smelter, 13,001 tons were treated for 162 tons of
blister, containing 160 tons of copper, 17,7700 z.
silver and 4140 z. gold. The average pans out 1.23
p.c. copper with ss. lOd. worth of precious metals.
Metal-bearing fluxes from the Thassis being silicious,
the furnaces were able to treat a comparatively large
quantity of Mount Lyell pyritic ore. Only 1025
tons from the North Lyell, and 1641 tons from the
Comstock were smelted. If the North Lyell ore
can be depended on to give an average extraction of
5 p.c., its value with fine copper at £7O is 705.,
which is a near approach to the average value of
the ore smelted at Mount Morgan. The latter con-
tains the largest reserves, and its smelting extrac-
tion is calculated on a mixture of Mount Morgan
and Many Peaks ore. The advantage enjoyed by
Mount Lyell is the huge deposit of pyritic ore which
cheapens smelting. The hydro-electric power scheme
is designed to cheapen the supply of electricity by
substituting water power for steam.
* * * *
Mount Bischoff (Tas.) is content to pro-
duce and send away 100 tons of concentrates per
month. For March, 19,086 tons of crush dirt were
treated—a moderate quantity considering the big esti-
mate placed on reserves (3,000,000 tons) and the
favorable tin market. Dividends now total
£2,386,500, or £lO9 7s. 6d. per share. Something
oyer 101 b. of tin oxide is extracted from a ton of
dirt ; and while working costs are below ss. per ton
of dirt, regular dividends can be paid.
Hamilton, of the Boulder, has had a look
at the Corintlran North (W.A.) on behalf of a
speculatively-inclined syndicate, which is negotiating
for the purchase of the unissued shares. Should
business result, the cash resources of the co. will bene-
fit to the extent of £31,000. This show was bought
about two years ago by D. L. Doolette from the
Oroya Exploration, which had previously acquired it
from the prospectors. Development was continued
by Doolette, and in April last he succeeded in float-
ing the affair into a co. of £lOO,OOO, in 200,000
10s. shares. More work has been done since then,
and a 20-head mill is now in operation. This plant
is designed to treat 3000 tons a month, and a profit
of between £l5OO and £2OOO is expected from this
tonnage, with an extra £lOOO when the cyanide
plant, now in course of erection, is working. At the
time of flotation, ore reserves were estimated by
Fred Morgan, of Bullfinch, to be 158,625 tons, of
a gross value of £195,448, and the profit at £52,685.
Developments below the 100 ft. level, where the sul-
phides come in, are reported to show more extensive
and more valuable ore deposits than in the oxidised
zone.
* * * *
Gold dividends totalling £162.603 were
paid by Westralian cos. for the quarter ended March.
Great Boulder’s contribution of £65,626 was the
biggest, and then followed Ivanhoe’s £45,000, Kal-
gurli’s £24.000, Sons of Gwalia’s £16,250, Mar-
aroa’s £5OOO, Sand Queen’s £4500 and Golden
Ridge’s £2318. Dividends amounting to £87,986
have been declared payable in April.
* * * *
Principal Westralian results for March:
Revenue. Profit. Value
Tonnage. £ £ per ton.
Great Boulder .. 18,542 48,046 27,448 51/9
B till finch Prop. . . 5,178 15,537 10,519 60/-
Ivanhoe . . 20,285 37,525 14,005 36/11
Sons of Gwalia . . 13,400 21,403 5,792 31/11
Kalgurli . . 10,870 21,468 9,150 40/-
Golden Horseshoe 26,181 36,598 4,273 28/-
Lake View & Star . . 18,481 21,203 3,610 237-
Boulder Persever-
ance .. .. 21,244 23,709 2,363 22/3
Oroya Links .. 11,920 12,252 1,480 20/7
Associated Northern 1,426* 7,168 2,262 100/-
Do. Victorious Leases 9,600 13,775 7,045 28/8
Mararoa .. .. 2.670 4.764 1,764 35/8
Yuanmi .. .. 10.500 17,886 4,862 34/-
South Kalgurli .. 9,933 11.082 1,422 22/3
Fenian . . . . 2,624 8.823 4,823 67/3
Mountain Queen .. 3.703 5,206 1,365 28/1
Great Fingall .. 6,016 9,935 1,011 33/-
Golden Ridge . . 2,900 4,560 1,001 31/5
Burbank’s Birthday 1,689* 4,310 51/-
Associated.. .. 11,010 12,479 690 22/8
Ingliston Consols 1,145 2,572 864 44/-
Boulder No. 1 .. 2,139 t 923 247 8/8
North Kalgurli .. I,loo* 3,701 67/3
Queen of the Hills 3,436 5,241 186 30/6
Lady Miller .. 1,500 1.817 54 24/2
Tda H 1,358 3,347 712 49/3
Kyarra .. .. 960 2,772 484 57/9
Marvel Loch .. 996 1,513 265 30/5
Edna May .. 114 1,170 205/8
. Loss.
Commodore . . 1,100 1.005 127 18/3
Menzies’Consolidated 1.842 3,071 206 33/4
Burbank’s Main Lode 1.890 4,097 401 ' 43/4
*Tributors’ ore. (Old tailings. Special capital
expenditure not deducted from profit or added on to
loss: Ivanhoe £lO7O, Sons of Gwalia £747, Yuanmi
£1615, Queen of the Hills £706. Ingliston Consols-
£2s4, Kvarra £723, Ri’H-vank’s Main Lode £763,
Menzies Consolidated £l9O.
* * * *
Langi Logan South (Ararat, Vic.) hasn’t
matured as fast as its neighbor, the New Langi
Logan, which isn’t saying much. In seven dreary
years it has eaten up £25.652, and all it shows is
a heap of plant, a shaft 340 ft. deep and a sprinkling
of bores. The legacy the claim was to inherit was
(1) the extension of the Cathcart gutter after that
had welled its way through the Cathcart Central,
and (2) the continuation of the main Langi gutter.
But there doesn’t seem to be much doubt now that
the Garfish Central lease gets the Cathcart gutter.
As to No. 2 expectation, the results in deep ground
being obtained by the Government drill on the ex-
treme east of the co.’s lease, convey a hint that the
gutter may be hugging the Silurian on the next
man’s block, who, if he means business, will fire in
an application to the Mines Department to get his
area bored. The other hope is of deep ground away
to the east. There would be no need for all this
surmising if the co. had put down a few more
bores, nor would there be the problem staring a
capable Board in the face as to whether the shaft is
just where it should be. Of course, the co. must get
a huge slice of the gutter, but things would be a
lot clearer if the lie of the lead could be shown in
the northern section of the property.
* * * *
Mount Elliott begins to smell like a dead
shark. When the show closed down for an alleged
“creep” and a well-advertised “fire,” the directors
stated that the closing down would not affect the
dividends. Then uncertain persons began to sell, and
presently the same directors remarked that they “had
decided not to pay a dividend, owing to the smelt-
ers being closed down,” and the Melbourne market
broke away to £4 10s. It looks as though some-
body wants Elliott shares, and wants them cheap.
Dave Murray, of the Duke and Main
Leads, Maryborough, Vic., knows how to turn out
a mining statement better than most of his con-
temporaries. Consequently shareholders don't have
to work out for themselves the hard fact that costs
last half-year went to 435. 3d. per square fathom
as against 38s. Bd. for the preceding half. The 9i
dwt. mark then touched was clearly too good to
hold. If costs could have been kept to that level
dividends would have come regularly out of the
dirt mined. As it was, the margin per square
fathom was only ss. Bd., a difference that would
vanish if the co. had a 25 p.c. increase in wages
forced upon it. Wages are now responsible for 641
p.c. of the total expenditure; timber, etc., calls for
13 p.c. and fuel 9 p.c. of costs. Shareholders got a
solitary sixpence in the term, and were glad to
escape calls, due to the poor ground off No. 15 rise
in the west end, where a blank of nearly 500 ft. has
forced the panelling line to within 700 ft. of the
faces. Co. has 10,000 ft. of gutter remaining to
panel, so the end is still pretty far off, provided the
wash keeps about the lldwt. mark. The healthiest
sign is that the lead in the north end is turning
north, thus getting parallel to the quartz forma-
tions. While this is so, and while the bores at both
ends give better results, there ought not to be undue
haste to shell out what little profits are being got.
* * * *
Events at North Britain, Blackwood
(Vic.), have not yet stirred that derelict centre.
The return for the £B6OO spent on the property is
gold worth £4OO. There isn’t much fat in that
sort of thing: The co. got some gold off a cross-
course at 400 ft., and it is on the hunt after Wright’s
shoot, which, according to the palmist, gave splendid
things above. What the co. is finding out is that
the lode stuff is more like jasper than friable quartz,
and that the gold is so fine that it almost requires
to be slimed. What such a claim looks for is more
stone and more gold and the best of treatment.
Queen of the Hills, at Meekatharra
(W.A.), had its first clean-up, the other day, when
3436 tons were treated during a 40-days’ run for
£5241, of which £lB6 is stated to be profit. This
performance falls far short of what the public was
led to expect, but in extenuation of the plant’s in-
ability to crush up to official estimates, it is pointed
out that a number of adjustments had to be made,
and heavy rain flooded the works and necessitated a
cessation of treatment for some days. The return
averages 30s. 6d. per ton, but the difference between
that amount and 505., which was the grade of the
ore treated, is stated to be locked up in the various
mill processes. High costs are attributed to the
small tonnage treated and to the stoppages afore-
mentioned. Management reckons that its estimate
of the mine will be fully realised when the troubles
usually associated with the starting of a new plant
have been overcome, and that the initial mining
and treatment costs of 245. sd. can easily be brought
down to 16s. The show is owned by the Lake View
and Oroya Exploration, and despite aspersions cast
upon its future by unfriendly critics, it is billed as
one of that concern’s most valuable assets.
* * * *
Bullfinch Prop. (W.A.) has got its main
northern series lode at No. 3 level just about where
this paper reckoned it would. Bulk sampling shows
values for the first 4ft. exposed to range from 625.
to 86s. per ton, wlrle the average worth of the face is
said to be £7 2s. 6d. per ton. A good development.
Central Red, White and Blue, Bendigo’s
biggest to-day, has still yards to go to catch up to
the records of properties like Garden Gully, John-
son’s or New Chum Railway. Still, it isn’t doing
badly for a mine on a side-line that was hawked
about at 6d. a share. To date, dividends total 70s.
per share, and as the cash has come without any
serious break, save stoppage for the new plant, this
company licks the rest of the field in the matter of
recent records. On what small things Bendigo moves
is shown by last year’s figures of the Central Blue.
In the first six months 15,471 tons were crushed:
in the second, 13,216 tons —a total for one year of
28,687 tons, or just about two months’ work for
one of the Kalgoorlie giants. It took from Septem-
ber 1910. to March, 1913, to crush 50,000 tons and
get’ out 45,5530 z. gold. Billie Cundy regards pro-
spects as “particularly bright.” What he is build-
ing on is that the downward continuation of the Cen-
tral Blue shoot of gold will be picked up to the
north on its pitch down to 400 ft. The company,
too, has the deeper formations to open up, and im-
provement in these would mean a hustle on the
market.
* ♦ * *
Mount Oxide (Q.). 160 miles from the
railway, has to class 21 p.c. copper as seconds. In
Ernest Henry’s time*it used to cost from £7 to £8
to carry the ore to Cloncurry, so it is easy to under-
stand whv the big heap of seconds, now amountmg
to over 4 000 tons, accumulated at the mine. The
deepest level is 208 ft., but three winzes have proved
rich ore below the level, and an intermediate level
off No 2 winze towards Henry’s old workings (ad-
jacent to No. 1 winze) also proves the continuity of
the ore channel. No. 3 winze is 265 ft. north of the
adit crosscut, and it is safe to assume that the whole
of the distance is in highly payable ore, the richest
streak of glance being on the hanging-wall side.
Such an extensive enrichment of copper glance is
very rare, although it does occur in large quantities
in some of the Arizona (U.S.A.) mines. Perhaps
the most heartening prospect ahead of Mount Oxide
is the approach of the railway towards Mount Cuth-
bert, for the cost of handling the ore under present
conditions is almost prohibitive.
* * * *
The blight known as suspension of labor
conditions appears to be spreading over Hill End
(NSW.). The fabulously rich gold that painted
gorgeous prospectuses doesn’t seem to have shown up
in the work so far done by most of the new com-
panies. Golden Gully Sluicing has been granted two
months’ suspension, on showing an expenditure of
over £lO,OOO for a return of £l4O. New schemes
for treating the unwilling material are being
hatched, so it is said. Amalgamated Hill End, in
atmlving for partial suspension, evidenced the tact
that £l6 000 had been spent, of which £3OOO had
been eaten up in the search for ore the rest going
in plant and other indirect ways. The advice upon
which the co. has worked is now admitted to have
been unsatisfactory. The intention was declared of
exploring and developing the deeper and new ground
by a tunnel, which will be 300 ft. deeper than the
existing workings. The application was refused.
« * * *
It hasn't taken long for the Great Luck-
now Consols (N.S.W.) to land itself into difficulties
again. The reconstruction took place in London
only a few months ago. At that time, some uncom-
plimentary remarks were passed by shareholders,
who, however, didn’t do any better for themselves
than to re-elect the old crowd, on the ground that
as this crowd had created the mess it should know
best how to clean it up. Apparently it was so bad
that no one else cared for the job. The idea was to
get down with a new shaft below the old workings
and start afresh. The main shaft has somehow
managed to get down as far as 30ft., at a cost of
£2700, including plant erection'. Then the mine
was closed down. Later on, an anplieation for sus-
pension of labor conditions for three months was
made. The warden evidently felt sore about the
matter. However, one month was granted. The
underwriters are said to have failed to take up their
allotment, and London shareholders are expected to
meet shortly to deal with the unissued shares. The
early fate that has overtaken the co. does not appear
to be unexpected.


Heerinqfs
Cojjen/ja^en
Est 1818.
I
0 ■'.% «
HEFRIHG
WERRVBMIfI
WORLD
ƒ
RENOWNED
grand
STUHR,
STUHR’S
Genuine Caviare,
Anchovies in Brine
(SALTED SARDELS).
In Tins and Glasses.
Sold by all High-class Provision Dealers.
C. F. STUHR & CO., HAMBURG.
English Export Agent:
W. LOVEGROVE, LONDON, E.C.
VERY OLD COGNAC.
OTARD B RANDY
1875. 1860. 1848. 1820 VINTAGES.
A
WOMAN’S
LETTER
Sydney, April 28, 1913.
My Dear Arini, —
On April 26, 1770, the little HALS. En-
deavor, 368 tans —a mere bath tub compared
to the Australian warship Melbourne —put
her inquiring nose round Botany Heads.
Her commander. Lieutenant James Cook,
R.N., was a navigator we have several mil-
lion miles of reasons to remember.
On Saturday afternoon hundreds of citi-
zens made a voyage—more or less of dis-
covery—to Ivurnell, near the historic land-
ing place of Navigator Cook. The knoll
where the flagstaff stands was emerald green
after the late rains. The waters of Botany
Bay, sapphire blue, under a cloudless sky,
lapped the headland with a long, thin line of
white foam, like the picturesque grey hair
of The Bulletin’s best poet. Off the shore
H.M.A.S. Melbourne, our first pallid hull
to fly the White Ensign, banged its guns as
Governor Strickland tugged a rope and
tossed the Union Jack aloft. His Ex.
addressed the invited guests, who were
ranged like sheep near the flagpost. The
general public, carefully fenced off by a
team of bluejackets, the Police Band, and a
small regiment of Senior Cadets, heard
nothing.
Admiral was the only speaker at the
Ivurnell show who realised that two or three
thousand uninvited guests had taken the
liberty of crossing Botany Bay to be present
at a gathering in which they had every right
to take a part. Throwing his voice out to
its highest stormy-weather pitch, and cast-
ing his mighty chest to the four winds, the
Admirable King-Hall turned on the pivot of
his heels and declaimed his sea-breezy re-
marks to the general public. “He’s real
’earty—so was Sir Harry Rawson —ain’t
above talkin’ to the crowd,” said Mater-
familias, clasping the baby, the billy, a
pound or two of sandwiches, and the family
shoes —the family having just taken its feet
out of Botany Bay.
Minister Carmichael, at Ivurnell, ad-
dressed the invited guests and the Police
Band. He was inaudible to the crowd, till,
by one of those odd freaks that wafts one
solitary sentence over the waves of sound,
he seemed to say, “That great Australian
genius, Norman Lindsay, made a model of
the Endeavor.” Probably it w T as an aural
illusion. The daily papers are unanimously
dumb. No reporter mentioned any allusion
to the artist whose mechanical genius is
only second to his draughtsmanship. Yet
the Lindsay model of the Endeavor is recog-
nised by antiquarians, who are steeped in
historic lore, as a unique piece of ancient
story, accurate to its smallest detail, and
worthy of a niche in some national treasure
house.
St. George and his mate the Dragon were
f§ted in the Town Hall on April 23. The
banquet this year was thrown open to a
limited number of our sex, who go meekly
to such extensive feeds, being unaccustomed
to devour the festive boiled ox in municipal
marble halls. On the word of a dame who
risked her best frock at the feast, no vassal
spilt a drop of gravy down her shoulder
blades, though Baron Loin was hauled
round the premises prior to the great knife
and fork display given by the. guests. J.
Lethbridge King. S.M., was in charge of
George’s beefsteak party. The Dragon was
too dead to be present.
The garden party at State Government
House was like the understudy of a resurrec-
tion. Several thousand persons —officially re-
corded as 2500—were drawn out in a sinuous
human worm that slowly wriggled, inch by
inch, from the gate to the vice-regal Hand.
The middle of the many-legged beast writhed
with impatience as it lifted its damp feet off
the sodden lawn. Far in front, the head of
the long procession could be seen shaking the
Hand. Away in the grey distance the tail
of the animal, clothed in top hats, frock
coats, autumn millinery, umbrellas (the sky
being in a weepy mood) and wrath, moved
on at the rate of half a mile a week.
Governor Strickland, defended by an
armed battalion of Gentlemen Helps, met the
impact of several thousand paws, and passed
them on to Lady Edeline, who was seated on
the verandah. With her, the Cullen dame,
very smartly clad, and Mrs. Premier
McGowen, were firmly anchored outside the
track of the Society Caterpillar. Some-
times, when rain threatened to wash it off
the grass, the Many-legged made a rush, four
abreast, at the plaid legs of A.D.C. Forbes,
who was armed with a sword, and able to
defend himself. By the time the head of the
procession was looking for its gamp and
gathering its tram-fares for home, the tail
was stamping over the feet of Private Secre-
tary Hood, who called aloud the names of
those present.
The event of the garden party frocking was
the appearance of Mrs. Ronald Forbes. She
looked like a sporting edition of one of the
beautiful Miss Gunnings. Her round hat,
with its waving blue plume, being of the
latest fashion, harked back to the Gunning
period. The gown was chiefly black with a
dash of blue and a panel of black and white.
A discreet inch or two of black silk stocking
was visible where the skirt had an artful slit
at one side. After this Vision, the average
matron loomed solid and heavily upholstered
in silk and velvet, as mere clay.
Mrs. Learoyd was submerged in the new
brocaded pile (once so popular for covering
sofas), in a violent shade of amethyst. Mrs.
Acheson, who loses her only treasure, the
youthful Mrs. Lionel Robinson, in a week or
so, lingered on the verandah in reminiscent
The chick’s departure in the Orsova
for England is imminent. Mrs. Lipscombe
hurried for shelter in a pearl-grey garment
tipped with a cosy fluff of black and white
fur. Pretty Ena Davies, one of last season’s
buds, was a Millais study in brown, with the
correct “Bubbles” expression about her brown
velvet eyes. The Arthur Towers had climbed
down from their up country roost for the
occasion. Sydney’s Mayoress, very correct
in blue, made a dignified progress to the seats
of the mighty, while Mr. Mayor gently sub-
sided into a verandah chair. The Admiralty
lady glided through the heavyweight conting-
ent, a slender figure clothed in twilight grey.
All the Strickland girls, except the baby, who
was cutting her teeth elsewhere, hung round
the parental chair, and about 2500 persons
said that the weather looked like more rain.
Lady Denman is off to England in a few
weeks, for a flying visit to the parental
nest. The wealthy Cow T drays were coming
out to Australia to stay with son-in-law
Denman. Whether the silly “eviction”
business has altered their plans this deponent
knoweth not. Anyhow, they have weakened
in their former yearning to come this way.
So the daughter goes home to have a glimpse
of mamma.
Mrs. Elliot, wife of Norfolk Island’s Resi-
dent Magistrate, is hurrying back to the
water-lapped Paradise of Pines, after a stay
in this town. Two or three tall sons are
the magnets that draw their parent to this
settlement.
The unlucky youth Quintal, who was
fatally injured in the surf at Newcastle the
other week, was a Norfolk Islander. About
a year ago he cast off the lotus-eating garb
of island life, to step into the hubbub of
work on this continent. One of the finest
swimmers on his native shore, and as expert
as a porpoise in deep seas, the irony of fate
dashed him to death in the sport he loved
best.
Norfolk Island, having suddenly leapt into
the public eye, clamors for attention in its
uncommercial methods of dealing with the
fruits of its soil. Generally they rot on the
ground. Its luscious oranges, if undamaged,
command high prices here or in Auckland.
But they are often so badly packed that they
don’t command anything but the garbage tip.
“If the new Administration wants to help
us.” says a Norfolker, “let it begin by show-
ing us how to help ourselves. We want an
expert to spend three or four months on the
island. Our people need teaching the busi-
ness of picking and packing fruit. Some
may be lazy, but many are only disheartened.
Instead of picking the oranges, which are
admitted to be almost unrivalled in quality,
a Norfolker will shake the tree. This begins
a large crop. of bruises. Careless packing
ends with prices that don’t pay for transport
to Sydney. Norfolk Island grows everything
except business habits. There’s a cry from
a small Macedonia near your eastern gates:
‘Come and help us !’ ”
The Morea is bringing to these shores,
amongst other glittering luggage, a new Sec.
for G.-G. Denman. He will step into the
gulf left by the departing Giant Quilter, who
will return no more. The new man is not
fresh at the work, for he once controlled the
household of Millionaire Astor in London. This
ought to have been a good experience in cut-
ting down expenses, for your Dives is gener-
ally thrifty in the matter of candle-ends and
bits of soap. Later on, he was P.S. to
Minto and Grey in succession, when they
Governor-Generalled in Canada, and after-
wards got a whiff of sunshine on the staff
of Islington in Maoriland. His most attrac-
tive possession is a very pretty French-
Canadian wife.
A hurried rumor states that the Gee-Gee
proposes to buy a reliable flying machine as
the only hope of getting in and out of this
State without camping in the park at night.
On Saturday he makes a breathless rush at
the arms and legs of our senior cadets in the
streets of the city. Having reviewed the
said arms, the legs will probably be still on
the march when the exile, bound for Mel-
bourne, is plunging on the bounding main
outside South Head.
The British Empire Leaguers recently
gave the glad hand to Canada’s voice on the
Dominion’s Commission. The Voice was the
eloquent G. E. Foster. In a fortunately
obscure advt., the League mentioned that
the public were cordially invited. Luckily
only one per 5000 of the city’s population
could have seen this invitation, and about
50 p.c. must have had previous engage-
ments, or no tram fares, or a cold in its
head, for the King’s Hall is a place of mod-
erate dimensions. Also, it was packed like
a herring-barrel with leaguers in various
degrees of evening undress. Any space left
over was allotted to crockery and the bun
of peace for the Empire pillars and their
friends. When a sprinkling of the public
did worm its way into the back of this
gathering, it went through a mild edition of
Rugby football before it could find breath-
ing space.
In the midst of the scrimmage for floor
space, while forwards and half-backs were
diving for extra chairs. Canada’s G. K
Foster began his address. President Wil-
liam McMillan, supported in the rear bv
two large Union Jacks, was in the chair. '
The Canadian’s homely David Harum
manner is flavored with a few Amurkan ex-
pressions. He starts at half-speed. There
are no flowers of oratory in his vocabulary.
Not one superfluous adjective weakened his
powerful speech. For its broad, human sym-
pathy and tense grip of the higher Imperial-
ism (a thing as remote from the Jingo flam-
boyance of our local Empire shrieks as the
magnetic Pole from an escape of suburban
gas), G. E. Foster’s great address ought to
have been printed in full for circulation in
our State schools. On Empire Day the
infant mind will be stuffed with sickly plat-
itudes by perambulating politicians. Here
was a firm insistence on our individual
rights as citizens, and our claim to have a
v«ice in the affairs of Empire. Various
other suggestions infinitely more useful to
the old Mother beyond the seas than yelling
“God Save” (since the Lord saves those who
help themselves) were included in these
Imperial pearls of wisdom.
t For 100 years the Benevolent Society of
N.S.W. has been filling as many hungry
stomachs as funds permitted. To keep its
birthday on May 8 the centenarian will stoke
any vacant cracks under the ribs of the
Rich, the Not-So-Rich and the Affluent Poor,
at a party in the Town Hall. President
Neville Mayman and the ancient society’s
committee have issued placards inviting
official Pooh Bahs of every size to come
along and wish them many happy returns
of—well, you know how many plates of soup
there ought to be in 100 years of Benevo-
lence.
At the Girls’ Realm Zoo party (in the
Moore Park menagerie) an able-bodied mon-
key, whose name may be Borneo Fagan,
made a smart dash for loot. After accepting a
tribute of peanuts in a suspiciously friendly
manner, our poor relation threw himself
headlong, with all his feet and his tail,
at the nut lady’s purse, which was held near
the monkey cage. Borneo tore it to tatters,
examined the contents, and filled his mouth
with small cash. When last seen by the
owner of the coins, he was spitting out six-
pences—as too valuable to swallow —and in-
dustriously chewing a penny.
Mrs. Hankey, a daughter of the Mount
Morgan millionaire D’Arcy, died suddenly
three or four months ago. A London cor-
respondent writes that Midas, who adored
this daughter, is still inconsolable, and finds
no comfort in his millions. Wasn’t Mrs.
D’Arcy a Queenslander?
F. M. B. Fisher, a Maoriland politician
of more or less tonnage, has been delayed in
Melbourne. The reciprocity chat with Com-
monwealth Fisher dragged its interminable
length over more time than either of the
Fishermen at first anticipated. Seddon
was the first to dream of closer trade rela-
tions between the Island Dominion and the
Island Continent. (At least he was the first
in recent days, for there was a period when
N. S. Wales owned Maoriland and all its
cannibals, and the business was all one
show, and Maoriland’s dried shark was our
shark, and its “long pig” was also our “long
pig,” and it had an interest in our kangaroo,
and we were all brothers.) Seddon’s death
snapped a link in the chain of commercial
continuity. Fisher, of Maoriland, has been
repairing the breach. He passes through
Sydney, on his way home, any day this
week or thereabouts. With him is a retinue
consisting of sister Mrs. Mac Ewa n, W. B.
Montgomery (who is something in the Cus-
toms), and his daughter, Private Sec. Hall
and a pyramid or two of luggage.
Ex-High Commissioner Hall-Jones, of
Maoriland, steps ashore in this port from
the incoming P. and O. boat. He brings
two daughters back from the Thames vil-
lage, where the H. Jones family camped in
pleasant places. The cares of office pressed
too heavily on the stooping shoulders of the
ex-Commissioner for Maoriland, whose
capacity for work is much greater than his
physical strength. So he gave up the billet.
. A gentle-mannered, kindly man, Hall-Jones
is an epitome of the success that dogs the
slogger who leaves the grey Old Mother in
the North Sea for the bright youth of Aus-
tralasia. He left England a carpenter, and
he carped at the old job for quite a while.
Then he was floated into politics, and
despite his lack of aggressiveness he made a
very respectable record in his new capacity.
Some of the measures which he hewed out
were remarkably sensible, and when he got
warmed up and made the chips fly in dead
earnest, he showed an occasional streak of
real genius. Also, he was of great value in
planing down reckless or irresponsible col-
leagues. In the Public Works Department
he found a wide field for his energies, so
many of Maoriland’s public buildings being
made of wood. An unusually truthful in-
formant tells me there is no fact in the
statement that Hall-Jones will return to
politics. He has a _ satisfactory nest-egg,
and means to live quietly on its nourishing
properties.
• Frederick whose death
m England is recorded in the daily press,
probably crowded more adventures into his
60-odd years on this planet than Methuse-
lah scraped together in the long term of his
unnatural life. _ Leaving the British navy
as a lieutenant, in 1877, he pursued the god
of chance in the Chilian service, and after-
wards, I. think, was a captain in the mercan-
tile marine. He sold a property in Britain
to put the proceeds into cocoanuts. Event-
ually, after seeing the ups and downs of a
roving career, he made his home on a small
isle in the Fijian archipelago, where Cako-
bau Rex used to make history of a
poor sort. Mrs. Langdale was the daughte o'f
a former American Consul in tho*P t! - f
parts. With her, the strenuous LanediT
put up a record fight against the dowS If
life m the hurricane belt. No hurricL/
as far as I know, ever missed their S'
Most of it was, on one occasion, blown om
to sea, and hurried word came to me - “P f
pone visit—we are homeless.” That WnA
vanished into the infinities. t Vlsit
A few years later one of the ill„ 0
trated papers showed a fine pi S
of chaos, punctuated with one un
post, and the kind of bacSffa
the ultra-impressionist loves to shovel
to canvas. It was indexed “All that ro
mains of Captain Langdale’s home ” a«
other hurricane had blown to smithereens
this modern Jonah’s possessions once more
An incurable optimist, he stood beside t-h!
post and smiled into the camera. For had
luck there was never a man to beat him in
these seas save “Jonah” Perkins, of Queen*
land. But while Perkins was being wrecked
which was his speciality, his brewery
brewing money all the time. He didn’t take
his beer-factory to sea with him, so he and
his fortunes never sank together. Captain
Langdale’s disaster was that he did take his
brewery to sea with him —in a manner of
speaking.
The once dashing Sydney girl, Nellie Hill
who married one of the Rundles, dropped
dead in a London street the other week
The Willie Cooper dame, now unpacking her
stupendous wardrobe at Fiona, is a sister
of Mrs. Wentworth and a daughter of the
late George Hill, of this city. The late
Nellie was a cousin. The Hill family is in-
digenous of the soil, and with the Coopers
and Rundles counts amongst the earliest of
the N.S.W. nobility. Unlike some of their
kind, the rapid rise to affluence found George
and Richard Hill unchanged. They wore
no frills, and. on the word of an ancient in-
habitant, offered old-fashioned Australian
hospitality to all and sundry.
With patriarchal generosity, Richard
Hill, M.L.C., fed the dejected aboriginal.
“When his home was in Bent-street
in the comparatively early days,” says
a venerable pilgrim whose beard is
covered with the frost of time, “it was
quite common to see 40 or 50 blacks squat-
ting about with a family of mongrel dogs
waiting for their tucker from the Hill
larder.” The Willie Coopers are also bitten
with a desire to give their innumerable
acquaintances (the friends of the rich being
as the sands of the sea) a mighty good time.
A Victorian black-and-white artist named
Laurie Taylor, writes that he is doing a
good deal of work for London magazines
since he settled in the Great Fog. He
digressed as a designer of two wallpaper
friezes. Otherwise he is as keen as ever
about the illustrative art.
Mrs. Nisbet Smith, the youthful bride who
used to be Vea Thiel, is showing her squirrel
furs and trousseau finery in town.
Manly golf carnival has been mixed up
with wet feet, fine growing showers and
mushrooms. Mixed foursomes occurred in
the middle of last week, with Miss Duret and
Dr. C. N. Smith as victors. Mrs. Percy
Thiel, a keen goffer, played with W. Doug-
lass, and the redoubtable Miss Trevor Jones
was coupled with H. Robertson in the battle
of the foursomes, which waged without
quarter amongst 70 or 80 competitors.
The National Gallery trustees have deli-
berately pounced on a Frances Hodgkins
water-color, “The Window Seat.” This is
a more articulate expression of the Hodg-
kins brush, than some of her daring impres-
sionist sketches. It snatched first prize in
the Australian women artists’ section,
Franco-British Exhibition. In spite of this
tribute to its technique, the ladies in the
window seat are less alluring than “La
femme se chaufe.” To the ordinary eye this
is the better of the two pictures, which both
deal with the eternal petticoat. A remuner-
ative crop of red blobs marks the “sold.”
Buyers have shied at the hazy modernist
infant, and mostly bought more beefy speci-
mens of flapperhood, such as “Venetian
Bead Threaders.”
Oscar Asche gave the Shakspeare Tercen-
tenary hobby a massive push into the public
eye on April 23. The Bard’s birthday was
kept up with every known frenzy of recita-
tion, and many slices from Will’s works in
our State schools. Actor Asche dropped
in at the Girls’ High School and other sem-
inaries and held forth in a voice of thunder
on the extreme eminence of the deceased
writer, which we cannot regard as fresh
news.
The non-appearance of the mighty Oscar
at Newtown State School on April 23 dis-
appointed the youngsters, but failed to break
up the harmony of the proceedings. The
Headmaster worked in the sweat of his
brow, the afternoon being warm, to fill the
youthful mind with Shakspeare, and Dominie
H. W. Moffitt added a lightning sketch of
Portia in her legal frills. Newtown’s Mayor
flung a few cheerful remarks at a dense mass
of bays and girls, and the President of the
Shakspeare Society failed to shake the boys
in their unswerving devotion to Juliet as
their favorite heroine.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


.Vf-rlx*'
SSSSS**
■®.iWSs*s:
/•
<** *a
/
»
iu
4
m
m
H
1!
e
*
i
>5
I
vjflOS
s
I
\j
U'K
*a
Vx
I 11
1
( '. *
I
r$
* ??
i
33
K
£
a
r
/
«
/
“ Cobra»” Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
With his Cobras
Driving thro’,
Wrings admiring
Shrieks from all:
“Here he comes
From old Bengal 1
Chunder Loo
For Black and Tan —
Very polished
Sort of man!
All the other
Sorts he loses.
Cobra is THE
Stuff for Shoeses !
I


f
PERFECT STYLE, FIT & FINISH.
Farmer’s Tailoring-to-OrdPi-
Suiting's from 63|-
Farmer’s Suits-to-measure, from 63/- are mar i. .
quality Tweeds and Worsteds, in distinctive designs and° m i SUper s° r
Pure Indigo Dyed Serges. e aesi^ns anc * colors; also
«n"Tera* t i,, b U W w»'So r o t m““r;hi\™,r t Myles,'
invite you to visit our new T?florfnir T" 6 • * WOrkers ‘
Season’s Suitings. Entrance by No Vl and mspect the New
Market Street Entrance 7 3 Elevator ’ or b F staircase from
SUITS-TO-M EASURE:
63/-,- 70/-, 75 - Si 80/-
PATTERNS, SELF-MEASUREMENT FORMS, Elc., SENT POST FREE
FARMER’S—SYDNEY
Are those
Dyspepsia,
employed ;
everywhere.
BKUUUHT TO BAY
enemies of civilisation, Indisrestion
Ys hen 6 Dierestive Tabules are
* 6d- and 2s ‘ 6d - P er Hn. Obtainable
NoYehide is Complete!
St
v<
S
a:
&
v. :' ../-
orUp to Date;
Unless fitted with
DUNLOP-KEUT
SOLID-RUBBER
TYRES.
They double the life
of a vehicle—run for
years—absorb all vi-
bration, rattling, and
MAKE DRIVING A
PLEASURE.
Illustrated List on Application.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane
and Christchurch, N.Z.
N
i
For
Wear &
Reliability
DUNLOP
MOTOR TYRES
* Give the «
GREATEST SATISFACTION
Dunlop Rubber C?-all States
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, April 28, 1913.
My Dear Yariue, —
Though the rain and the sun competed des-
perately on Saturday, there were a lot of
smart gowns gathered on the Caulfield lawns.
Governor 1 ulier, back from Dookie the pre-
™°u.s night > ar rived early on the scene.
White spats of the well-known immaculate
brand kept his feet warm, while scrambled-
egg gloves kept his hands from getting frost-
bitten. llis face was worn bare. Help
Curwen, in attendance, bore, as his wand of
office, a neatly-folded umbrella. He seemed
to be awaiting the word to cast loose the
black lashing of the thing. Also, his tail
pockets bulged as if he were concealing a
pair of bed socks. Perhaps, though, it was
only a hot-water bottle. Mrs. George
CUirnsitle, with daughter Audrey and a
nephew in tow, were invited into the vice-
regal pen for a chat. Both the visiting
ladies were heavily upholstered, and a small
feather duster shot up from each top-dress-
ing. The last shriek of fashion was dis-
played by the newly-rt\irned Mrs. Willie
iobin and her daughter, both of whom par-
aded in care of brother-in-law Ullathorne.
Patches of geranium red showed up on her
bright blue furnishings, and a whole sheaf
of roses was packed aboard a very small
toque. Norah Field (the Tasmanian heiress
w pO is engaged to young Daintree) was
with Muftie Huon. Major Lilley promen-
aded with his wife, and Chamberlain Nevill
exchanged remarks with Meta Power, got
up like a sweet chocolate and cream confec-
By the way, Herbert Power’s horse
carried off the race of the day. The split
skirt has become popular, and glimpses of
silk-clad leg were to be had everywhere.
Only the fire of enthusiasm will keep us warm
this winter, if the split skirt and the trans-
parent neck remain fashionable. Pneumonia
and chilblains are to be the smart com-
plaints.
The Melbourne Medical Association is a
busy body. About 50 of the members meet
once a month to go studying industrial con-
ditions. This means a pleasure jaunt away
from professional work to inspect a local
factory or workshop. The proprietor is
warned of the impending visit, and meets
them on the doorstep, with, I trust, a hand-
ful of cigars and a bottle. This month, a
piano factory was subjected to the profes-
sional examination. Exactly what medicine
men have to do with pianos remains a
baffling professional secret, like the system
of fee-scales. Perhaps they were bent on
finding the germ of the concert epidemic now
raging in Melbourne.
c< “Weenie” Ffrench (sister to Nellie Melba’s
Sylvia), who has been in N. S. Wales with
mamma and stepfather De Boulay, was lately
restored to Melbourne .by her pleasant-
looking bridegroom. Her new name is Aber-
crombie. The knot-tying happened at Rose
Bay, Sydney. “Weenie,” otherwise Irene,
thumped a typewriter in Dalgety’s, till a
serious illness terminated her commercial
career. When she lay ill in one of the big
hospitals, Melba and Auntie Bob Power
brought her flowers fit for a star actress.
It was something to be a star invalid, any-
how.
Mrs. Rubber Edwards has sent out cards
for a farewell frivol of the tea and scone
variety, to be handed round and poured at
her Cliveden flat. She and her husband
intend to thoroughly overhaul the U.S. before
steaming across to Europe. During the
parental 12-months’ trip, the small family
will inhabit the flat, and the fleet or herd
of motors will be left at its disposal.
Two militant sunragettes are menacing
the peace of this city. They are Margaret
Hodges and Harriet Newcomb, fervent l'ank-
hurst enthusiasts, and, of course, they find
the cowlike calm of the enfranchised Mel-
bourne woman rather irritating. Margaret
considers that a great opportunity to adver-
tise woman’s needs was thrown away in the
recent Eight Hours’ procession. These two
mature females are clothed in deception,
after the manner of their kind. Their mild
tepid manners give no idea of the extent to
which they revel in cable news of bombs in
empty houses, bonfires in pillar-boxes, and
lumps of blue metal in muffs and handbags.
Ao one would suspect them of being capable
ot tearful explosions when roused. They are
revisiting Australia, after years of absence
(they once ran a training school in Sydney),
looking for Australian recruits for the
Womens International Suffrage Alliance
whmh is billed for tall talk at Budapest.’
lhey have secured one private, but 12 more
are required. W’hat a golden opportunity
tor earnest souls tormented with a mis-
sion !
The Pinschofs are preening themselves on
the engagement of daughter Elizabeth to
Walter Moore Finley, an American now
doing business in Sydney. The knot will be
tied towards the end of this vear Sister
Garmen, who has just been loaded with com-
phments and other inedible substances at
Wellington (M.u.) for her performance of her
own name-part in Bizet’s opera, is not going
to London with operatic intentions. On the
contrary, she is going with the very ordinary
idea of keeping husband Harris from feeling
lonely during the long trip. Her lyric out-
bursts will, as of yore, be strictly amateur.
'»Tr T i le eid -Osmont knot was duly tied on
vyednesday. Bride Muriel is one of our
nicest girls, and the bridegroom, ’tis alleged
in a stage whisper, has money to incinerate.
Ihe ceremony, which was performed in Aunt
Christie Jones’s best parlor, at Camberwell,
was shorn of all expensive trimmings, a
travelling suit taking the place of the regu-
lation bridal yards of satin and lace. Dad
iteid, a pillar of the Stock Exchange, gave
away his only child, and wore a subdued ex-
pression the while. But as she has boarded
with Auntie of late years, his home won’t be
depleted by her change of residence. After
a Sydney honeymoon, the young couple will
start housekeeping in a specially decorated
Cliveden flat.
Dr. Norris, who has just moved on to
Condon to inspect the would-be Australian
immigrant, was (with Mrs. Norris) the
guest of honor at Dr. and Mrs. Cherry’s tea
party, in the University Club room. Nor-
ris in his day carried off enough scholarship
way through the ’Varsity,
and his two boys have been left behind in
order that they may try and break Dad’s
tine record. Norris seemed quite satisfied
with his prospects on the other side, though
he turned up a more lucrative post to go.
Amongst the polite tea jugglers present
were Professors Berry and Woodruff, Dr.
Constance Ellis, the Tate couple, and Miss
Beilis. The Norris cot at South Yarra now
shelters the Hemmingtons, who also belong
to the healing profession.
East Ihursday afternoon, Dot Heath was
converted into a man’s permanent Darling.
1 astor McCrea, of Toorak, went out to
Malvern to do the joyful job. Papa Fred
Death gave his girl away in his own front
room, which was expensively decorated for
the occasioh. Bridegroom Harold Darling
brought along a sister from Adelaide to
bridesmaid, shoulder to shoulder with
Myrtle Heath. The guest list included only
near friends and relations. Later in the
afternoon, the newly-wedded pair left on a
honeymoon which is to terminate in the holy
dty ot Adelaide, where the home will be set
up for keeps.
Hugh Robertson made haste to get mar-
ried, after he had found the right girl. His
young bride is of the slender, decorative
and de discovered her blooming unseen
at I rankston. The knot was tied there in
the village church, before a large and curi-
ous audience. The bridegroom’s father
(when on earth) was senior partner of
want rtS ° D and Vagner ’ and his son is above
Political Eleanor Cameron left for Tas-
mania last week. She is touring the Fly-
speck in the interests of the People’s do-
eral party Before she left, busy Eleanor
interviewed Alec Peacock on the tvpiste
w S a°e’ and asked him for a separate wages
board for women office workers. Alec
didn t have a spare board among his clothes
at the time, but promised to speak to Par-
liament about the matter.
.^ rs - York Syme scored heavily, this week
with her crush of free tea-drinkers. The
Sw 11 v a ! S ive " or poured to introduce
H e Natalie Dawson (an old family
triend). Over a hundred women, likewise a
tew men squeezed themselves into the hos-
pitable Syme cot ’at Balwyn. Maurice
Jones and Ethel Hems provided the musical
fare, and Mrs. De Beere added a couple of
items. Ihe vegetable garden, which is fixed
up on unique lines (I don’t mean that it is
suspended in mid-air) proved a star attrac-
tion, for the day was of the blue and gold
order and only a bat or an owl could have
stayed indoors all the time. Refreshments
were absorbed on the lawn, to a ragtime ac-
companiment. The hostess, burdened with
a load of cut-glass ornaments, worn Indian
fashion, was assisted by two white-frocked
daughters. Mrs. Reid brought her daughter,
Mrs. Bill Bates, and L. L. Smith’s widow
was m charge of Louise Smith-Dyer. Major
Eaitropp hovered round, looking anxiously
tor bulls over the inevitable red tie.
Ket COU P Ie have returned from
their Chinese honeymoon. The bride (she
was once Gertie Bullock, of Kew), is shar-
mg all the pigtail flourishes, crackers, pre-
served gmger, joss sticks and official fuss.
The Cliveden flatterie is to shelter the
couple for the time being.
Edwerd Goli and a niano drew many of
H« 1 Tn n !\ Ve ,T y to the Town
DaH, on Saturday. Edward is a Bohemian,
and quite famous —so famous indeed that he
is only staying at Mentone for his health
The concert tour is alleged to be a merp
ihp ld i eDt ii. f I V\-' is L t • His art is denoted by
the length of his hair, which fluffs out like
the business end of a feather-duster. When
Edward grows interested in what his finders
are doing (at first he just allows them to go
wundenng up and down the keys like
bloodhounds in search of a theme 1
he fairly lifts his audience by the hair and*
thirty souls round ,he ro?m
\\ ken he plays Chopin he is particularly
dangerous. He answers the most raptur-
ou,s. applause with a gentle, vague smile
Silken'T S t 0 “ WhV ’ foolish
childien, I was only playing after all! Take
y -iwvs°V ls back ’ and > you are good I
will think again m the midst of my hair and
play you some soothing syrup and a good
night’s rest.” Between each bracket, in-
stead of combing his hair with his hand or
one of the platform palms, he just grooms
himself with a handkerchief which he keeps
handy on the piano-top. Music-makers,
male and hairpinned, crowded behind during
the interval to pumphandle the Great Artist.
Professor Peterson headed the charge and
cheered on the timid ones who showed a
disposition to hang back in the passages.
The Beutler couple (she in yellow silk),
also most of the accumulated talent respon-
sible for the last few weeks’ concerts, were
there with admiring offsiders. The Gaud
Mayor and his Gaudess beamed from the bal-
cony. Some staee trimmings of tin trellis,
sprouting with chrysanthemums d gum-
leaves. were a grateful change from the
everlasting palms and art green of most
concerts.
Maggie Mather, a favorite piano-wrangler,
got off tickets amongst her best friends, and
ran a concert at the Masonic Hall last
Thursday. Her confederates included violin-
ist Ernest Toy and mezzo-something Mar-
garet Murdoch, with accompanist Harold
Elvins to back things up. Maggie in real
life is “Madame” Beutler. (She wears the
French prefix because she is married to a
German.) She served up her husband’s own
compositions on the piano, and violinist Toy
also gave some selections from the same
source. The feverish applause still con-
tinued after tributes of tired chrysanthe-
mums. done up in bilious neck ribbons, had
been handed over the platform edge. This
uproar was intended to call up the com-
poser, and Maggie, garbed in old gold satin
with beaded edges, duly trotted him out. He
wears a Beethoven expression, helped out
with long hair and a rugged countenance.
Margaret Murdoch, frocked in mauve, also
carolled a little Beutler. She did it in pier-
cing tremolo’d German, with a severe ex-
pression, as though she meant every
“Ach !” and worlds more. Both ladies were
rather distant and unbending on the plat-
form ; but for this perhaps the.dressmaker is
to be blamed.
Artists Douglas Richardson and Margaret
Baskerville close their picture exhibition
partnership at the Athenamm, this week.
Their friends rose nobly to the occasion and
brought along all their artistic acquaint-
ances. Some came up to scratch and
bought; others just stood off and admired till
they nearly burst. Margaret shouldn’t do
portraits not pale blue pastels, at any
rate. Most of her models suffer from the
trimmings they felt it their duty to wear.
One of them seems to be in fearful agony with
cornflowers tickling her left ear. Douglas’s
water-colors show fine bits of seascape and
country corners, whereas his allegories and
subject spasms in oils are not quite up to
Watt or Leighton, perhaps. In fact, it is
hard to say what some of them are up to.
The Horticultural Society started its
autumn carnival of fruit and flowers, in the
I own Hall, on Wednesday of last week. The
big, bare building blazed with enormous
chrysanthemums, and a good many pounds of
eating and cooking apples were also on view.
John Madden, C.J., having grouped himself
carefully behind the rampart of vegetation
lining the edge of the platform, said things
far more flowery than the decorations. Gaud
Mayor Hennessy, wearing his brightest
smile, escorted his Gaudess, who was bur-
dened with a pink bouquet. She blushed
on the platform in shot bronze blue, and
showed a top-dressing of sables and the best
tail feathers of a sky-blue ostrich. Actor
George Titheradge—always a keen flower-
raiser—-looked in and had a chat with Mad-
mul, rF k e, 7 k. not met for a grood 20 years.
Ihe Gaud-Mayor lig-htheartedlv broke the
regulation which forbids the distribution of
exhibits amongst the public in the hall by
persuading his Gaudess to wrestle with her
tightly-bandaged veil and bite a giant grape
from a prize bunch. The show, which re-
mained open until Thursday, was well at-
tended by all the Very Best people who take
their gardens seriously. The number of
such is growing unbeautifullv less, as the
flatting habit spreads. Soon there will be no
aristocrats of floriculture. The old rosebilitv
will be extinct.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
Cheery old F. O. Tolley died on Monday. It is
V ard ** ) .« ssoc » te Wm with the Grave. He was as
# u-° f „ the , m ffk of life and human kindness as one
of his firm s best kegs of whisky. In the intervals
of entertaining his friends, he was a distinguished
gardener. 6
On the same day, David Williams, who had been
here smee 50, fled aloft. As foreman or Clerk of
Town S H he ii he eu ed A to ,- build the General Post Office,
lown Hall, the Anglican Cathedral, the University,
Parliament House and the Savings Bank. Now no
more deaths till next week.
The Kindergarten movement is growing with the
almost indecent speed of one of those dreadful chil
ter’« n ep ; d lr \ the advts - of Blighter’s Food, Bus-
ter s Biscuits, etc. In fact, croakers aver that if
it doesnt presently take a pull on itself, it will
burst. A new training college for teachers was
opened on East Terrace last week. The Hamilton
abode was secured for this worthy purpose some time
ago, and the committee has had it charmingly fur-
™she(:' i Chl , ef Secretary Bice did the opening with
i k i U ° f f an ° u ld hand - Lad y Bosanquet was
biffed to perform this feat, and it was with no idea
of injuring the foundations of Empire that she re
a ", ed l Sbe was ‘"disposed or something, and so
couldnt come. A pleasing show followed—pleasing
that is, for those who like that sort of show It
consisted of (1) Typical Songs and Dances by the
students, (2) Speeches by Miss de Lissa and Mrs. J.
. Morice, (3) Pea, (4) Buns. There is some talk of
Hit, 81115 “ entertainment on these lines—
The S.A. Cricketing Association farewelled that
most affluent of octogenarians, E. T. Smith prior
™ hls , departure for the place where the Ashes are
The admirable old citizen took with him his daughter'
Mr ®- Georg !'. De . an , and one of her sons. ’
lt V application, by wireless, of Rhodes scholar
Madigan, who is now with Mawson, for a further ex
tension of leave has been granted (also by wireless)
by the Chancellor of the University. We breathe
agam Presumably had the Chancellor wired “You
have had enough pleasure. Return at once” the
dutiful scholar would have dived off his ice-floe and
K back - And th “ ”'ls"”b“ d e
' Miss Mabel Marryat, Miss O’Halloran Giles Mr
Ge ° rge Brookman, jun., and Mr. Cunningham sailed
by the Macedonia on Thursday. Jlun S n <im, sailed
Hugh D. Mclntosh got off the train
Lofty, bought a house, and passed Napoleonicallv
done Ih 0 is be thi a ng SolUt fdfd CC ?t rat { he is *££
personally.
boots or a sheep station s pair ot
erM'sra'&S- &R
Smrth’’ 'i'S S '" r ' l ?y v ’ Mce- OwK
Sff aa-ags* slssa ■ssa.'"s
wine-waiter, of a statistioni .
before the arrival of the Tote ruined y, (in fact-
bookmaker of some eminence! A™ he Wa s a
pnrase, “Deerolemuthercountrv”’ w -> ■ U at f s tba t the
during the evening. The dinner ™ Sed 114
ab ° ut 12 T lb - lighter than the oratory 1400(1 > and
Mrs. John Gordon and her daughter vr
Dean, gave an At Home on Tuesday’ Mrs ' L <*lie
Gordon was in black, the other lady in oT"' Mrs-
a sweeping black hat. Mrs. T. E Barr with
Duncan dame and her daughter Mrs S ?? ltb ; ‘he
Mrs Stanley Murray, Miss an'l A
Ihgham Wigg (m an exquisite shade of rs-
the occasion to wear their best clothes We) seized
On Tuesday, Miss Dorothy Lan°-hornp
to Mr. W’inser at the Unity Anglican Oh? 8 ? arried
only bridesmaid was her cousin A Th «‘
Davison, from Mount Gambier, a girl who ia ? osalind
her dt>but this season, and who lonlAi to make
and dainty in a frock of white JbLnT fresh
touches of blue and a large blue hat * Uy ’ Wlth
The frocking in “Lady* Windermere’s Fan’-
the dizzy limit, which is to say, P erfec t ?o n W * 8
Lady Windermere, Mrs. Arthur Rvmil As
admixture of blue and crtaie in tCI W - ore an
with a fascinating wide brimmed blue u*’
ermine cloak in the ball scenewpll Her
Mrs. Magarey (who used to be
was an imposing Lady Jedbure-h « 1 Hac k).
brocade, and pretty Mss Jean w^ 6 '
whose blue rivalled delphiniums with n, ■ Satln
tulle in modified XLia of
as the Duchess of Berwick, disDlaved ! ' 0 , Lear . v
beautiful frocks—one a mingling of rich old ™i!f °!
dead-leaf green ninon and cr*pe and / and
cloudy grey, sparkling with single rows ofhrH /
and backed up by a sheaf of red ros7s Mrs
Thomas dressed the part of Mrs Prlv™ (S ' -, n
smartly-—a beautifully fitting and sfena T'Y
frock in the ball scene, and a smart blue dress
on. The acting made a spirited effort to live
the costumes, and occasionally succeeded. P to
(Continued on page 30.)


-—»
/
f
S8&t'V^#t
*1
96
sS.Tm
*Uy~\ ■*-*-*-
f.
4.vft
—
=
• • •-••••• V-K
r
.i?
*9
"V
3
£
*
*
:?
\
V
\
WAJ[OOr\VA^^~-
EVERY curve in the road reveals scenes
which for grandeur and beauty would
be hard to equal anywhere. And right
in the centre of this glorious district is a most
palatial hotel —the CARRINGTON —fitted
with electric light throughout, and replete
with every luxury and comfort for the visitor.
Tariff —£3 10s. per week;
12s. 6d. per day.
Daily service of u Itala ” Cars runs
to Jenolan Caves.
RETURN FARE, £2.


“GREAT SCOTT, ITS HOT!”
LET US GET SOMETHING COOL and NICE.
FRANZ JOSEF FOR PREFERENCE.
YES!
FRANZ JOSEF LAGER BEER
EVERY TIME.
The cove that chased the water-cart man to in-
form him that “it was leaking” {vide B. 6/3/’l3),
was not far different from the sower of the sods
who followed up his potato-cart with a wheelbarrow
in which to catch the spuds that “leaked” out of
the faulty bags in which they had been vainly en-
closed. Get good spud sacks, Mr. Farmer, such as
will stand any amount of strain and not spill the
contents The best place to send to for sound spud
sacks is Smith’s, the Sydney Sack Specialists. Grab
vour pen now and write for quotations. We’ve got
our specks on readv to read your request. T. Smith
and Co., Ltd., Sack Specialists, Sussex Street,
' SVdfteyr*' ~ " ■*“
DIABETES.
This highly dangerous disease will m its earher
stages be remedied by prompt treatn p r ice,
Sheldon’s Gin Pills. Take them in
Is. Gd. and 2s. 6d. Obtainable everywhere.
?<SPTOREi
Our large stock of the
latest Trusses for all
kinds of Hernia is a
real boon to sufferers.
Denyer’s Special Elastic
Truss, fitted to size,
ends all trouble, dis-
comfort and fear.
Call or Write.
f
Single 17/6, Double 22/0.
Others from 3/0.
DENYER BROS-*
Truss and Abdominal Belt Makers,
281 George St. (opy. -
POLITICAL
POINTS
The bitterest election scuffle in Victoria is
in the Bourke electorate, where ex-Presby-
terian parson Robb is trying to oust Anstey.
Robb has left the pulpit, but he hasn’t yet
dropped one of its unpleasant little ways—
the habit of making large, irresponsible state-
ments. And, having been a parson, he is
unused to being contradicted. Thus, w 7 hen he
animadverted on the Labor pledge. Anstey
retaliated by quoting the pledge taken by
every parsonical follower of John Knox, and
asked, if that were proper, why should not he
take the pledge of his gospel likewise. Robb
said this was an attack on his private cha-
racter, which was a perished sort of howl,
and drifted into the old, w T orn-out parables
about fracturing the marriage-tie, destroying
religion, nationalising babies, and all that
thomas cat. Anstey has fought many elec-
tions, but reckons this the most unpleasant
of the lot.
[F. C. Jones, Elgar-road, Burwood, Victoria.]
Having to comply with the Electoral Act
or cease drawing its salary, the Tas. Legis-
lature met on April 22, passed a resolution
giving the Complex Ores Co. a year’s grace
to complete its works and prevent its valu-
able concession reverting to the State,_ ob-
tained four months’ Supply, and on April 24
closed the political front door with a bang
until August 26. It was quick work, but a
Government with a majority of two cannot
afford to take unnecessary risks. Still the
session isn’t a record for the island.
a two-days’ meeting of Parliament in ’58 —
opened to-day, as it were, and shut up to-
morrow, so to speak.
Sydney Telegraph broke out last week
with an article on “Cotton-Growing in Aus-
tralia,” in the course of which it expounded
that cotton couldn’t possibly be grown at
white man’s wages. It would be interest-
ing to learn why. Supposing nigger cotton
is shut out by a sufficient tariff, this coun-
try could supply itself with white-labor
cotton and white-labor cotton goods just as
easily as it can furnish itself with white-
labor meat or wheat or potatoes. Every
community which isn’t utterly rotten can
afford to nay itself for supplying its own
requirements, provided it has the soil and
climate to produce the goods. The idea that
the white man is so expensive that he can’t
afford to be alive, and so costly that he can’t
afford to work for himself, and must have a
twopenny nigger to do his toil, is a purely
slave-labor idea. And no country ever pros-
pered for any length of time on slave-labor
ideas.
THE CRY OF THE PIG MOTHER.
The Labor Government took credit for everything.
It was even said the pigs had bred faster since they
assumed control. — Joke Cook.
THE PIG : " Shure , Cooksey , darlin , there's
divll a worrud of a loie in ’t. Tell me
now , wasn't it the Labor Govermin' in-
vinted the Maternity Bonus?"
From the “campaign points” of a Sydney
Tory daily:—
Women, ask yourselves how it is that while wages
have increased in recent years, the task of making
both ends meet is as difficult as ever.
But seeing that it plainly and obviously
isn’t, why should any woman deafen herself
bv shouting such an absurd question in her
own ear? Also why should she dislocate her-
self by trying to get her mouth round to her
ear to ask the question? The working
classes of Australia are, and have been for
the last few years, better off than at any
time in the previous century. As an evi-
dence, the people of N.S.W. have accumu-
lated as much spare cash in the Savings
Banks since 1900 as they did in all the pre-
vious days since Captain Cook. Therefore,
it is absurd that a foolish paper should ask
foolish conundrums about the difficulty of
making both ends meet. In any case, who
expected women to make one end meet?
THE INEVITABLE RECOMMENDATION .
Mr Bruce Smith pointed out that Federation was no experiment, having been successfully adopted
as a solution of the complex political affairs of many ancient middle ages... .The federation of the Aus-
tralian colonies had been under consideration by English statesmen and by the greatest Australian
political authorities, for over half a century prior to the adoption of the existing Constitution.... The
framers of the Constitution had ransacked the Federal Constitutions of past times and selected a
feature here and a feature there, in order to construct a scheme that would be acceptable.
THE YOUNG MAN : “But look at the growth—then look at this.”
POLITICAL ARCHEOLOGIST Archeologist : “ What! Dissatisfied with your implement? Want one of
that Fisher-firm’ s new-fangled contraptions, I suppose l Why , your early ancestor
who first fashioned that wepping was considered by his tribe to be the greatest in-
venter-craftsman of that age!”
[T. COLLES, THE BULLETIN OFFCE, Sydney.]
“Jones” appears for the defence: —
Melbourne Argus lately printed a huge plan, show-
ing “blocks of land along the Transcontinental rail-
way route taken up by members of the Westralian
Labor party,” and invited the public to consider
how wicked a thing this was. As a matter of cold
fact (not cold feet), three Labor members held areas
among some 60 shown on the plan ; the blocks are
all outside the Federal reserve, and mostly nearei
the ocean than the line ; they are State lands, taken up
under Liberal-made State laws; they were taken up
in the same way and on the same terms as the land of
dozens of other citizens; they are by no means the
largest holdings; and, anyhow, it isn t a r ederaf
matter at all. But while it was on the scent of
railway land dealings, the Argus need not have gone so
far from home. A couple of far more interesting
maps would be those of the land along the routes
of the unprofitable Fern Tree Gully and Outer Circle
lines, just outside Melbourne. And the plans need
not show the blocks adjacent to the lines, but only
those through which the lines were run, and
prices paid for the strips taken. There wouldn tbe
any Labor politicians’ names there, but Liberal
M’s.L.A. would show up largely, some of them men
whom the Argus ever spoke of with respect.
The tail-end or final fragment of the
N.S.W. railway strike was the usual com-
plaint that strikers were being “victimised”
—in other words sacked —because of their
share in the worry. The “victimisation”
problem is always a difficult one. If an
ex-striker does anything short of rushing at
the rear of Johnson and kicking him real
hard when he isn’t looking, he can’t be sacked
without a complaint that he is being "vic-
timised” for his share in the recent indus-
trial upheaval, which complaint is liable to
lead to new trouble. In other words, the
man who has been on strike may consider his
position thereafter impregnable, just because
he has been on strike. And on the other
hand the management may start running
the strike leaders out of the service out of
pure cussedness, knowing that it can always
plead that they began to get unbearable en-
largement of the head by reason of their
fancied impunity. It is a false position on
both sides.
For haughty contempt of the public intel-
lect it would be hard to beat a suggestion in
a leading article in the Age (19/4/ lo) that
at the last election the Victorian Labor
Senators were returned as the result of a
split vote. The Labor three polled 648,884
votes, and the Fused trio 620,511 ; but to
these the Age adds the votes secured by
Parson lionald and 1 ida Goldstein, bring-
ing the alleged pro-Fusion vote up to
692,474. As a matter of fact, it was the
Labor, and not the Fusion, vote that was
split in Victoria in 1910. Vida Goldstein, a
Laborite in all but name, stood as a demo-
crat, and condemned the Fusion and all its
works. Ronald, who was returned to the
House of Reps, on the Labor ticket in the
first Federal Parliament, also stood as an
independent democrat. The argument that
a large proportion of the votes recorded in
favor of these two would have gone to the
Fusion nominees had the independent brace
stood down is a brazen effort to mislead
those electors who do not know any better.
If the figures published by the Age signify
anything, they show that the Labor Senate
majority in Victoria should have been about
70,000 greater than it was.
[Albert John Owen, 129 Grey-street, East Mel-
bourne. )
That clever Victorian girl, Miss Vida Gold-
stein, is standing as a candidate for the
House of Reps., her constituency being
Koovong. which is Heidelberg, Kew. Haw-
thorn, Camberwell and a heap of Intense
Respectability. She has a better chance at
this game than in her two previous shots at
the Senate (in 1910 she was seventh with
53,583 votes among eight candidates ; Ronald,
with 18,380, being the tail). Robert Best,
who lost his Senatorial job in 1910 by a scrap
of a deficit (he had 213,976 votes against
Blakey’s 215,117), now represents Kooyong.
But he and Miss Goldstein run on very much
the same ticket, save that the lady is the
more progressive of the two, and as Labor
hasn’t put up a candidate of its own, it will,
to a great extent, make her a present of its
vote. Also, a lot of women will vote for her,
and it is a district that is heavily manned
with women. And a lot of men will vote for
Miss Goldstein because of her pluck and
brains, and because she is good to look upon,
and would ornament any stodgy old House.
[F. C. Jones, Elgar-road, Burwood, Victoria.]
The most interesting anti-Defence man up
to date —one J. R. Firth —wrote in a blaze
and howl of glory to Sydney Telegrai j h last
Monday, and wound up with this trumpet
snort: —
If child conscription is not the meanest act ever
perpetrated by a civilised people, let some valiant
defender of the compulsory clauses contradict me.
Firth evidently thinks the Defence Act has
no supporters in Australia, and that, instead
of being passed by popular vote, it was
shoved on to this country by that bloated
autocrat, the Shah of Persia.
The wonderful art of passing on the re-
sponsibility, as exemplified by Adam when
Eve shoved along the apple, is manifested for
the thousand billionth time by the appoint-
ment of a commission to consider the advisa-
bility of establishing a Greater Sydney. And
it was manifested for the thousand billionth
time minus one in the appointment of the
North Shore Bridge Commission. Surely
these things, after being inquired into for 50
years, don’t want further investigation. The
great need is for someone to get a brick and
a move on him, and start doing things. In-
quiry has been pursued till the poor thing is
quite exhausted by hard running.
OVER WORK.
Liberals did their own thinking, but Laborites were
dictated to by an outside junta. —Joke Cook.
L.B. : "For Australians sake don’t , Joe, you
might strain yourself!”
THE BIRDS OF PREY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Though the Hill of Malabar is rather far from Home
or Paris,
And some distance from Yassberra or from Brisbane
or the Block ;
Still, in calm and thoughtful hours 1 behold its
heathen towers
Where the palm-leaves rustle softly and the flying
sextons flock !
There, ’midst sand and solemn dirges undertakers
leave their perches—
Flying ghouls who wait for business on the Hill
behind Bombay ;
And. . . .for reasons sound and valid, in my mind
those ghouls are allied
With our own peculiar Tories—our Australian Birds
of Prey!
Noble palms there are that bear them, ere they rush
to rend and tear them —
Palms and fresh, sweet-odored gardens where the
Towers of Silence are ;
Fragrant groves and tropic cultures where the corpse-
removing vultures
Drowse in placid expectation on the Hill of Mala-
bar !
There they stand—the Towers of Silence —many a
long and heated mile hence,
Where the boats steam out to Suez from the shores
of old Bombay ;
Yet... .Australia’s Upper Houses, where each vul-
ture-Fat carouses ,
Seem to me like Towers of Silence thronged with
drowsing Birds of Prey!
Hark! They hear the sound of warning—’tis the
Parsee’s chant of mourning—
Every eye is swiftly opened, every vulture heeds the
call;
For their hunger knows no shortage, so they watch
the distant cortege—
Pleasant ghouls who feed and fatten on each Parsee
funeral!
Then, with wings outstretched and rushing, see the
flying sextons crushing—
See them fight upon the Towers which look down on
warm Bombay ;
Thus... .with sharpened beaks and talons, leaving
bones alone for balance,
Prom our Legislative Councils swoop Australia’s
Birds of Prey !
See! They circle round and hover —when the
funeral rites are over,
And the corpse is thrown before them, how unani-
mous they are;
Yea, the dead Parsee will fatten, so the vultures
gorge and batten —
’Tis the pleasant Parsee custom on the Hill of Mala-
bar !
Then the sextons, fat and drowsy, perch like ghouls
obscene and frowsy,
And the bones alone lie gleaming on the Towers of
far Bombay ;
Yet..../ do not blame the native — scan our Cham-
bers Legislative —
On Australia’s Towers of Silence drowse our Tomj
Birds of Prey!
See our Towers!—six or seven—how they lift their
heads to Heaven,
How they stand beside the Yarra, and at Brisbane,
Hobart, Perth;
And, of course, the Holy City has its sample—more’s
the pity,
Also Sydney, where the sextons croak and drowse in
sodden mirth !
There are priests likewise who guard them —Premiers
we fools placard them,
Watt and Denham, James McGowen —all this land’s
one vast Bombay :
And. .. .when vulture-Tories, flapping, at the bones of
Bills are snapping,
I remember Western India and the Parsee s Birds
of Prey !
Hark! They hear the sound of warning—'tis the
plundered people mourning,
Whilst the noble James McGowen staggers up the
Tory stair;
See! Another Bill has perished—Law the people
yearned for, cherished
As a hope and aspiration, made for Fat to rend and
tear!
Thus, the Peakes and Denhams stagger—Watt just
now’s a carpet-bagger,
Who meanders round with Holman by the Thames
in Bull’s Bombay;
And whilst hopeless millions cower, Bills are
flung from House to Tower —-
All the Empire’s darkened over with the rushing
Birds of Prey!
Very far, of course, from Paris, India’s Hill of
Malabar is—
Also distant from the Houses where our sacred
Tories flock ;
Still, in calm and thoughtful hours, I can see our
Silent Towers —
Are we all Parsees and heathens, that these flapping
vultures mock?
For to-day, midst solemn dirges, every stout Bill-
sexton urges
That this hapless land forever must remain one vast
Bombay ;
50.... f0r Reasons sound and valid, all these Tory
ghouls are allied
With those undertaker-creatures—Western India’s
birds of Prey!
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.
“PERMANENT AND REPRODUCTIVE!”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The latest loan of £3,000,000 has been floated in
London.— N.S.W. daily paper 1913.
If we ever are unfortunately compelled to ran*
a loan, which is a thing we hardly contemplate,
will be purely for permanent and reproauci
works.- — J. S. T. McGowen, 1911. nffimllv
The local member, Mr. , has been oin .
informed by the State Treasurer, Mr. Cann. tha
the sum of £75 has been granted for
of erecting a morgue in connection with n ■
pital at Dubbo. — News item (1913) in S. M. Herald-
In the Sydney Loaning Herald —and in other
papers, too — - .
Very cheering are the paragraphs that iuiK,
For they often show exactly what distends
1 O U
As a permanent and reproductive worK.
N.S.W.
O. C. O.


The longer each Running Part
of an Automobile lasts the lower
is the Maintenance Expense.
CJ If the moving parts last for 50,000
miles they are eliminated from the
expense account for that length of
time.
<IIf they last 25,000, not only bear-
mgs, but the labor of replacing them,
must be paid for twice as often.
The economical car is the one
whose various moving parts are
lubricated by Gargoyle Mobiloils.
The most costly oils to produce, yet
the cheapest per year.
Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd.
ELEGANCE
WITH
EASE.
f
per 25 1- pair.
(Add 1/- Postage.)
A TYPICAL EXAMPLE
of the Unbeatable Value we Provide.
Made in Patent Colt, with Dull Kid Legs, a really elegant
model —one of the smartest ever offered. Our new Price
List illustrates many others —ask for a copy.
Remember —Every Pair Guaranteed
Mail Order Department,
14 and 16 Russell Street,
MELBOURNE.
ENGINEERS’
POCKET BOOKS
The Best Work that is in you is better than you can
understand, and these New Books of Tables and
Formulas are a valuable help to memory in
Mechanical thought and work.
Price.
Post Free.
PRACTICAL ELECTRICIANS’ POCKETBOOIv AND DIARY
(1913). New matter includes Coal-Cutting Machines, Vacuum
Cleaners, Home Office Wiring Rules, etc. ~ .. .. 1/B
FOWLER’S ELECTRICAL ENGINEER’S POCKET BOOK (1913) 1/11
THE “PRACTICAL ENGINEER” ELECTRICAL POCKET BOOK
AND DIARY (1913). A Book of all-round utility to the Elec-
trical Engineer. New matter added as regards Metal Lamps,
Domestic Cooking and Heating Devices, Supply Meters,
Wiring Rules, Measuring Instruments .. .. .. .. l/o
THE “MECHANICAL WORLD” ELECTRICAL POCKET BOOK
AND DIARY for 1913. Notes, Rules, Tables and Data .. «/ll
MUNRO AND JAMIESON’S POCKET BOOK OF ELECTRICAL
RULES AND TABLES FOR ENGINEERS, ELECTRICIANS and
ELECTRO-METALLURGISTS, etc. (19th Edition.) Leather-
bound .. -.8/10
FOWLER’S MECHANICAL ENGINEERS’ POCKET BOOK.
(1913.) Brimful of useful knowledge .. .. .. .. 1/11
THE “MECHANICAL WORLD” POCKET DIARY AND YEAR
BOOK FOR 1913: A Collection of Useful Engineering Notes,
Rules, Tables, and Data .. .. .. ... .. .. -/H
THE PRACTICAL ENGINEER POCKET BOOK AND DIARY
FOR 1913: A Marvellous Book of Valuable Tables, and honestly
worth half a sovereign .. .. .. .. .. 1/5
THE MECHANICAL ENGINEERS’ POCKET BOOK (1912), by
William Kent. A most valuable Book, Bound in Full Morocco 25/4
KEMPE’S ENGINEERS’ YEAR BOOK OF FORMULAS, RULES,
DATA, etc., for 1913. JUST ARRIVED. It is a Compendium
of the Modern Practice of Civil, Mechanical, Electrical, Marine,
Gas, and Mine Engineering. 1590 pages, and 1250 illustrations.
Leather-bound, gilt edges .. .. .. .. .. ..13/-
THE AUTOMOBILE ENGINEER YEAR BOOK for 1913.. ... 1/6
DOUBLE POSTAGE RATES TO NEW ZEALAND.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.
476 George Street
(OPPOSITE QUEEN
VICTORIA MARKETS),
Sydney.
V\>u
M
( rf
'M§ 3 4
'5 rs
A
W\\
>4
.«fl!
MSU**
ir * v . a
28 Million People
Go to Cinematograph Shows Weekly.
( Vide Cable Reports in Daily Papers , February 21, igij.)
If you cannot, or do not want to, be one of the 28,000,000, get a Path 6 Home
Cinematograph, and have a picture show in YOUR OWN DRAWING-ROOxYI.
You can have one in Perfect Comfort
and Absolute Safety by using a
PATHE HOME CINEMATOGRAPH.
MAKES ITS OWN LIGHT.
FILMS WILL NOT BURN.
THERE IS NO DANGER.
LARGE LIST OF GOOD PIC-
TURES, WHOLESOME AND
STIRRING, to select from.
Anyone can work the Pathe Home Cinematograph. Seeing that it makes its
own light, it can be used as successfully in the town as in the country.
Write for Booklet telling you more about this delightful Home Entertainer. *
Send the coupon to us or any of our agents.
PATHE FRERES,
12 Alliance Building's,
48 Queen Street, Melbourne.
BIRCH & CARROLL, Edward Street, Bris-
bane; S. SPURLINC & SON, 93 Brisbane
Street, Launceston; OPTICAL & PHOTO
SUPPLIES CO., 672 Hay Street, Perth;
orC. W. FRASER & CO., 139 York Street
Sydney; HARRINGTON (N.Z.) LTD., 42
Willis Street, Wellington, & Queen Street,
Auokland, N.Z.; W. PARK, Stationer, Pal-
merston N., N.Z. ; C. R. FOREMAN & CO.,
Napier, N.Z.
CUT OUT AND POST TO-DAY
Please send me particulars of Pathfs
Home Cinematograph.
Name
Address \ t
C & 27.
Pathe’s Home
Cinematograph


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Absolutely Pure.
No Preservatives.
E. RESCH'S LIMITED , Brewer by Appoint-
ment to his Excellency the Governor- General.
Brewery and Offices t Dowling Street, Redfern, Syd
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO.. PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
PIMPLES AND BLOTCHES.
ALSO BILIOUS HEADACHES DUE TO
SLUGGISH LIVER, BANISHED
BY DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT
PILLS. DAPTO LADY’S EXPERI-
ENCE.
T'. - c ,? ns *der there is no medicine equal to
Dr Morses Indian Root Pills for eradi-
cating Biliousness from the system.” writes
Jlrs. N. Allen. Greengrocer and Fruiterer,
of Bong Bong-street, Danto, N.S.W. “Those
lequent Bilious headaches, pimples and
blotches on the skin and face, so often
ansmg from Bilious disorders and a slug-
gish liver, are so easily overcome, as in my
case. VV henever a pimple makes its appear-
ance on my skin I find one Indian Root
1 ill will remove it jn a night, clearing and
cleansing the blood in an unmistakable man-
ner that I would not be without them in
my home. My husband finds them invalu-
able tor headaches. I recommend them to
my triends, _ and feel sure thousands would
find immediate relief from Bilious head-
aches if they would give these Pills a trial,
lou may use this testimony if desirous for
publication. ’
Missing: Friends.
I 1 JOSEPH JACKSON, last heard of at Tyalgurn,
Tweed River, New South Wales, will communi-
?r te * MACDONALD, Solicitor, Public
Trust Office, Wellington, New Zealand, he will hear
something to his advantage.
I JAMES BILLING, son of Joseph Billing, last
neard of as a sailor on the Australian Coast,
will communicate with J. W. MACDONALD, Soliei-
to . r ’, Public Trust Office, Wellington, New Zealand, he
will hear something to his advantage.
I ] £?9?£ IATION is required of SIDNEY
ELUS, son of NORMAN ELLIS, last
Heard of at Mary Street, Ivew, Victoria, who
will hear something to his advantage by
communicating with
_ . J- W. MACDONALD,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
. Wellington, New Zealand.
T of DENIS ~CARRTotherwise called
DENIS CARRON, otherwise called
„ir AR n E ? P,^ VID CARRON, late of Wharehine.
P ort Albert, Auckland (New Zealand), will
ol something to their advantage by communi-
£**,*?& lth , A; M r . MACDONALD, Solicitor to the
Public Trust Office, Wellington. New Zealand.
'T'HE relatives of GREENLAWS WARNER, latTof
In\ercargiil (New Zealand), Laborer, will hear
something to their advantage if they communicate
lth . J V - MACDONALD, Solicitor to the Public
trust Office, Wellington, New Zealand.
T) ROTHERS and SISTERS of — JOSEPH PORTER.
* a ' e ,°f D’Urville Island (New Zealand), Bush
Teller, will hear of something to their advantage
hy communicating with J. W. MACDONALD.
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office, Wellington, New
Zealand.
Representatives of RICHARD WEBB, Wanted.
HP HE representatives of RICHARD
-1- M EBB, of London, who were passen-
gers by the steamer Formosa at Albany, in
VVestern Australia, in or about January.
jSdo, will hear of something to their ad-
vantage by communicating with
STONE & BURT. Solicitors.
llay Street. Perth (W.A.L
U/ALTER COOPER KELLY, formerly of Market
Hotel, Auckland, N.Z., or anyone knowing his
whereabouts, kindly communicate with
MR. J. INCE,
Box 304,, Wellington, N.Z-
WILLIAM AUGUSTUS BUTLER, late
of Sydney, or anyone knowing where-
abouts, communicate with J. J. KIELY.
Solicitor. t>s Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Important.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The Rugby League, the Rugger Union,
and the Soccer clubs all ended their practice matches
last Saturday, and next Saturday will see the nomp
and circumstance of the premiership competitions.
The chief event of the afternoon was the League
match between Glebe and Newtown at Sydney spores
Ground. This was a benefit in aid of Cubitt and
Neil, each of whom got a leg broken in play last
season. Newtown went down, blithered to death by
26 points to eight. It was a great game, and
yielded a net profit of ill 19, to be divided between
the two game roosters, as King O’Malley might say.
Brother Larkin, boss of the N.S.W.
Rugby League, sent two teams to do missionary work
at Bathurst last Saturday; and they did yeoman
service in the good cause. Bathurst arose and took
the teams, North and South Sydney, to its bosom,
and nurtured them on fine victuals and rare drinks.
About 1500 people emptied themselves on to the
Sports Ground to watch the, to them, new game,
and saw a fine demonstration out of which South
clawed its way to the top with 23 points as com-
pared with 19. At the subsequent feasting Miller,
M.L.A., asked why footballers should not be allowed
the same privileges as cricketers; but no one could
tell him, or if anybody could that person didn’t.
Micky Meagher, president of the Bathurst League,
arose and said that the talk of professionalism in
connection with League Rugby was just plain
“twaddle” and the public was getting tired of it.
Which is gospel truth. Liberal allowances are made,
but the teams playing do not divide the profits be-
tween them, or anything of the sort; neither are
players paid fixed stipends, as they are in some
forms of purely “amateur” # football in Australia.
While the game is run on its present lines it must
go ahead, because those lines are dictated by com-
mon sense and business instinct.
* * * *
On grounds nicely softened by the first
winter rains, and surrounded by applauding crowds,
varying from 3000 to 20,000, Melbourne’s hoofball
season started on Saturday. The chiefest concussion
was at East Melbourne, where Carlton tackled last
year’s premiers—Essendon. The Old Blues have been
successful only once there in the last eight years,
and they wanted to break the long sequence of
routs. So no points were given away. On the whole,
the game was fast and clean, with good marking and
kicking; but of system there was absolutely none,
the passing being wholly of the casual order. A
stiff breeze blew down the ground, giving each team
the lead alternately, but Don’s majority was never
enough to swear by. In the middle of the last
quarter Carlton drew level, and, keeping up the
pressure, piled on two goals four behinds more, and
at bell-ring was on top with 83 points to 67. Across
the park, on the Metropolitan ground, Melbourne was
expected to demolish Collingwood, but the latter has
abandoned its unseemly custom of losing the earlier
matches, and, having resurrected the beginnings of its
once-famous system, took amole revenge for the un-
holy walloping is sustained in the initial match of
last season. Ultimate scores: ’Wood, 60 points;
Melbourne, 37. The redoubtable battlers of South
Melbourne entertained St. Kilda, but had some diffi-
culty in carrying out their barrackers’ advice to
“make mincemeat of ’em,” and though they man-
aged to squeeze home by nine points—-63 to Saints’
54—there was much luck about the performance.
The old Red-and-Whites have been indulging in argu-
ment with their committee, which body suddenly
dropped five of them the previous week with a dull
thud, and the team, as a whole, has" hardly got over
the shock yet; Richmond went to Geelong and
reaped defeat—37 points to the Seas-'ders’ 55 ; and
’Roy accounted for ’Yars ; ty—79 to 37 —without un-
duly distressing itself. None of the Ass. games gave
much of a shock to anybody, though P’ran was
hardly expected to soifFcate Brighton in the hollow
fashion denoted by the scores—los to Brighton’s 45.
Essendon.polished off Northcote in workmanlike man-
ner—--60 to 35—-and North acquired 75 points to
Melbourne City’s 31. The Brunswick-Port d’sturb-
ance should have been an evenly-balanced contest.
but wasn’t, ’Wick having the "measure of Port
throughout, and piling up 98 noints to 40. During
the riot, Gotz of Port and erst of Carlton, got his
nerson in the place where the ball ought to have
been, and retired badly damaged. Gotz has had poor
luck ; of late years, and this writer would advise him
to adopt a less strenuous —er —recreation —sav, chauf-
fing or election canvassing. ’Scray and ’Town col-
lided in the violent manner customary with neigh-
boring teams, ’Scray emerging topmost with 54
points to 35.
* * * *
The Union brand of Rugby in N.S.W. is
getting more kicks than halfpence this season. At
Bathurst, the stronghold of inland football, the
result of the League s missionary enterprise was that
the City Club, last year’s premier, went over bodily
to the League, and sufficient members of otfier clubs
broke away to make three teams with which to start
a League competition. The Union remnant now
consists of the Bathurst Club, two college teams and
a XV from the Experimental Farm. The college
teams make no secret of the fact that it is only
the fear of being attainted as professionals that pre-
vents them crossing bodily also.
•* * * •
The N.S.W. Rugby Union is bringing to
Australia a team of Maoris, which will figure in
eight matches in the Ma State, starting on June 9.
After that the dark band will make for Brisbane.
Otherwise things in the Union orbit will be quiet,
the only other excitement being home and home
matches with Quensland, at Brisbane on July 5 and
Sydney on August 2.
Horse-owners, trainers and stewards of
race meetings throughout this turfy land will be in-
terested in the publication of a pocket edition of
the “Rules of Racing,” revised up-to-date. It was
compiled for the V.R.C. a while ago, and Secretary
Byron Moore has put it on the market at the modest
price of 18d. a copy (vide advt. in this paper).
Herbert Power’s five-year-old Nari made
some amends for a long series of disappointments, by
winn'ng a decent stakes—the Glen Huntly Cup—at
Caulfield last Saturday. The unlovely gelding pipped
Safrano (the favorite) on the post, some good horses
being behind the pair. Long ago Nari was declared j
to be very fast when in the humor, but this defeat
of Safrano and Mala, with an 181 b. pull in the
weight, doesn’t make the brute look anything to
speak of, even on his day. The most notable event
of the racing at Caulfield was the glaring failure of
a certain Rhombus to win a steeplechase. The
horse, which had lagged behind whilst the favorites
were coming to grief, looked so palpably like being
ridden to lose that jockey and owner were disquali-
fied for two years.
The Victorian Club has had to sky the
towel in the bout with the V.R.C. over the racehorse
Audacity, wh'ch brute, haying been well backed for
the last Newmarket Handicap, was ruled out of the
event, owing to being unregistered, The V.R:C. had
cancelled all bets, while the club had ordered its
members to pay and receive—-mostly receive. Coun-
sel’s opinion on the case having now been obtained,
the decision is against the club both on the law, the
the facts, and the grounds of high policy, Punters
therefore save their money from the paws of Jericho,
and the Book of Lamentations is loud in the land.
* * * *
Tohnny Summers thanks his guardian angels
for helping him to stoush Bob Turner at th
Sydney Stadium.
As Omar Whakem said on the occasion of
the Johnson-Jeffries fight, so it was on Saturday
night at the Sydney Stadium, when Bob Turner
essayed to push his way over Johnny Summers, to
once more share in the loot and glory of the game:
Oh, talk of stoush and threats to pulverise,
One thing is certain, old Time ever flies —
One thing is certain and the rest is lies,
The pug that once retires for ever dies.
Although the scrap lasted till the 11th round, it was
by the grace of Summers. That astute young man is
not out to win his fights in a round or two at the
expense of his hands. He prefers to throw himself
up against his rival’s midriff ; and there it was that
he smote Turner hard and numerous —almost as
numerous as the Bulgarian army outside Adrianople.
Turner made a very gallant attempt, but he was out-
classed. He could not hit nearly as hard as Sum-
mers ; neither could he protect himself to anything
like the same extent; and when one man in a fight
has the margin both of skill and brute force, there
isn’t much in it. Only the lucky blow—-the random
shaft between the joints of the harness —can pull
that sort of proposition out of the fire. But the
lucky blow is the gift of the gods, and the gods were
not fighting for Turner on Saturday night. In the
11th Summers grew weary of restraining himself.
Turner had been badly damaged amidships, and the
time was ripe. Like a flash Summers landed left
and right twice each to the head, and Turner went
down. So dazed was he that he never took the
count, but struggled up and leaned against the
ropes. The first man to see his helpless condition
was Summers, and he looked appealingly at the
referee. The referee signed him to go on. So Sum-
mers smote some more. The ropes held Turner up,
and again Summers looked appealingly to the referee,
and while he looked Turner slipped to the floor. Then
the police intervened and Summers was declared the
victor. What Turner’s seconds were thinking about
not to throw in the towel is a mystery; but the
chances are that from their angle they could not see
how helpless their man was; and they had pro-
bably been deceived by the fact that he rose from
those four severe knocks without taking the count.
Next Saturday night will see another at-
tempt to “come back.” This time it is Bill Lang,
who will endeavor to do the resurrection act, with
the head and bingy of Petty-Officer Curran for his
take-off. The scrap will take place as usual at the
Stadium, and the popularity of William is so great
that it will be necessary to get along early to get
anything like a decent seat. If Billiam fails to
arrive, it will not be for lack of proper preparation,
for he certainly has done all that a man can do to
get fit. He is more anxious to win this fight than
any he ever took part in, as he feels that victory
will remove the stigma of that unfortunate occasion
when he went baresark in London and smote Curran
while the latter was kneeling. Certainly, but for
losing his head, he might have won on that occasion.
On the other hand, Curran is just as anx.ous to prove
that he could win otherwise than on a foul. So,
providing the stamina is there, it will be a battle
great and grim. * #
Hughie Mehegan was welcomed back to
Australia last Friday night at a dinner at Hill’s
Cafe, given by Mr. It. L. Baker —he of the Stadium,
whom perfect strangers coarsely speak of as “Snowy.”
With Mehegan were three visiting boxers, Harry
Mansfield and Alfred Spenceley, lightweights, and
Sydney Stagg, a welterweight. Mehegan is in per-
fect health, and not the least downcast by his re-
verses over the water. He did his best, and he
knows that here in Australia we are quite convinced
that his best is darned fine splendid. Also, we
know he is a game loser, which, though not so
lucrative, is just as honorable as being able to win.
That the decisions of some of the English referees
were hotly questioned by excellent authorities is
well known. Mehegan’s next battle in Australia will
probably be with Picato, at Melbourne.
The news that Matt Wells, Hughie Mehe-
gan’s London opponent, has agreed to come to Aus-
tralia under engagement to R. L. Baker, caused
great rejoicing among the brethren this week. He
will, of course, be pitted against Mehegan here, and
probably, against Summers also.
* * * *
Having broken a thumb, Sydney boxer
Dave Smith will be unable to keep his engagement
to, if possible, put a head on his brother pug, Les
O'Donnell on May 10. However, the brethren will
be solaced with a scrap between Jerry Jerome and
Pat Bradley, which is not the same as the other, but
should be just about as good.
* * * *
Rowing has gone through a strenuous time
in Adelaide of late. The trouble, to an outsider,
would appear to be that the city crews are jealous of
those .of the country—represented mostly by Murray
Bridge. A crew was picked to represent S.A. in the
inter-State race, rowed in Adelaide last Saturday.
Murray Brdge objected, on the very reasonable
ground that the strongest eight had not been selected,
and offered to prove its case by rowing the said
selections, which seemed fair. The picked crew de-
clined, and after much tongue-wagging and ink-
spilling, resigned in a body. Entries for a test race
were called, but Port Adelaide was the only metro-
politan club to come up against the Murray Bridge
gang, and on April 19 the Bridge horde fled away
from the Port multitude, and won by 300yds.
The inter-State Eight-Oar Race at Ade-
laide, last Saturday, was a record and a ring-tailed
roarer. To postpone the race was diffic It, and to
row it looked about impossible. The t de and the
wind were opposed, and angry, foam-crested waves
howled over the course. It was 5.30, with the light
fading fast, when the event, in a sort of way, started
itself. The crews had been told that as soon as they
could get into any sort of line they were to go ; and
in anv sort of way they went, and when they had
been gone about lOsec. the starting gun blew out.
Westral'a got the worst of it, the Sandgroper boat
being almost broadside on when the rest went off.
But the ’Gropers came round and went after the
bunch with a bound The N.S.W. boat’s poppet
string carried away almost immediately the start
was made, and that mammoth liner dropped out. At
half a mile Tasmania was leading South Australia
bv half a length, with Victoria struggling a couple
of lengths further back, and Westralia another four
lengths at the tail end of all things. The Queens-
land boat was not in it, having sunk. South Aus-
tralia (Murray Bridge) overhauled Tasmania, and
took a lead of a couple of lengths, the cox baling with
a billy per medium of one hand and steering with the
other.” Victoria and Tasmania were then together,
and Weatralia eight lengths behind them. Next the
Westralian boat filled and the crew ran it ashore.
Victoria’s boat was a-wash and in a hopeless plight,
land so was Tasmam'a’s, owing to the cox. having lost
his bailer overboard. South Australia, by hard
shovelling out of water, was enabled to skim along,
and won by about 200yds. in semi-darkness. Tas-
mania was second, having managed to struggle over
the line somewhere. Immediatelv afterwards tlrs
boat fell overboard also. The Westralians emptied
their boat and nluckily started again. They scored
third place. Altogether it was the wildest eight-oar
race ever seen in Australia.
* * * *
There were only two contestants for the
Single Sculls Championship at Adelaide on Saturday
—Marr, of Queensland ; and Coverdale, of Tasmania.
Coverdale had the advantage of 31b. weight over
his opponent, who just turned the scale at lOst. It
was a one-man show. Before 100yds. were covered
Coverdale was leading by half a length. This advan-
tage he continued to increase, till he finally won by
10 lengths. The scullers were able to hug the
shore and get comparatively smooth water.
The mystery surrounding the challenge to
Barry from a Maoriland “Unknown ” begins to un-
ravel itself. This joke from Mokua angered a Maori-
land paper, and it let a sleuth-like reporter loose.
He discovered that the challenge evolved in the
fumes of a convivial gathering. The defi. to Barry
was worth about as much as the fumes. Many
people thought it was a trick on the part of Richard
Arnst to lure Barry into another match; but Richard
was entirely innocent.
Glory be to Joss-Confucius, the Sydney
First-Grade Cricket competition ended on Saturday,
and North. Sydney, which slew Sydney by 82 runs
on the. first innings, established itself premier club
with 21 competition points. University, which
dished Paddington by 79 runs on the first innings, is
runner-up with 19, and Redfern is third, being away
on the horizon with 11. It has been a disastrous
year for most of the clubs. Burwood and Gordon
managed to accumulate only seven points each during
the season, and they were rich compared to Glebe,
which did the beggar or Lazarus act with one. But
there is a lower Sheol yet, deep as the above-
mentioned is. Look at what the following clubs owe,
and weep, if your stony eyes may dissolve in tears:
Central Cumberland (Parramatta), two; Balmain,
five; Sydney, five; Waverley, five; Middle Harbor,
six; Petersham, nine; and Paddington, 10. The
defeat of Sydney was not a thrilling episode. North
having banged up 271 the prev'ous Saturday, started
on the job of getting Sydney out for as few as pos-
sible. Long was the most successful bowler, and got
away with four wickets for 63 runs; Gregory got
his single stick for two runs; Punch two for 45,
and Hopkins two for 32. But it wasn’t the bowling
of the Northmen that broke Sydney up ; it was the
weight of the anxiety. A single century-getter would
have changed history. Not a man of them let him-
self go; thev all played cautiouslv—and were dis-
missed for 189. University’s handling of Padding-
ton was very different. The previous Saturday Pad-
dington had left 155 on the board. It was nassed
when onlv two wickets were down. Then ’Varsity
ran on till three were down for 234, and declared.
But the day was far spent, and it, was a first inrnngs
win only. A special interest attached to this season’s
competition: Both North Sydney and University had
won the. Rawson Cup, the outward and visible sign of
the premiership, twice, and a third win would make
it the absolute property of either of them. North
Sydney has it.
* * * *
Brisbane (Q.), like the other State capi-
tals, has put up the cricket shutters, as far as its
First Grade is concerned. The honor and glory
abide with South Brisbane.
* * * *
I Hardly was the N.S.W. cricket season
coinfortabiy closed up when a bombshell was dropped
among the failures of the Grade competition. Certain
of the teams which failed to toe the mark regularly are
to have a recommendation heaved at them by the N.S.W.
Cricket Association next season. Certainly, there is
something very rotten in the state of Sydney cricket,
and the long list of clubs which finished the
season owing points suggests the necessity for the
pruning-knife. Where this deplorable state of affairs
was due to the inabil'tv of the clubs to rake full
teams into the field, the most sensible thing is to
wipe out the helpless institutions and nut thp m „ ,
of their misery. Meanwhile, there is terror m-inw*
ing and gnashing of beer. ’
* * *
The Royal Automobile Club of England
abolished road racing in cars some years asm
to the fearful accidents in France and the !
States. Britain itself had suffered no "rear
but the club thought it better to be sure than sor™
Now it has rescinded its rule, and is organising'
“stock car’’ race over a distance of 300 miles on J
371 miles circuit on the Isle of Man, where V
authorities turn the track into a private rnaH *
the time being. The club has drafted an elaboJul
definition of a “stock car,” and among the particn
lars are 4-cylmder engine, bore not to exceed on
millimetres and the stroke 140 millimetres ts
minimum weight fixed is 20001 b., and
must be of standard design and have been ill,,
trated, in the manufacturer’s catalogue before Fehr
ary this year. Of course, the object of the clnh in
re-starting these road races is to test the various
makes of cars under actual running conditions C
the information of buyers. At present the onlv
tests to guide buyers are those made on the Brent
lands Track under ideal conditions, and ideal condi
lions give no idea as to springing, braking-power
hill-climbing and acceleration on an ordinary marl
Next year a race for specially-built cars will be n,it
on.. 4,1,1
* * *
The 100-miles road race of the Victorian
Cycle Club got blown to bits in the middle '
curious blunder. This is the boss event of its tin i
in Victoria and no less than 52 of the best riders in
the State faced the starter. The long markers had
been sent away all right, but then the starter mk
took the minute handicaps for seconds, and sent ,
whole batch off at second intervals When th
mistake was discovered they were miles awav trsv
ellmg at the rate of 60 knots an hour Nothin,
remained but to call the race off, and it was done
The language is said to have been terrible rt
race will be re-run in June.
Another limb of the athletic Bevan'family
from Gunning (N.S.W.) burst over the horizon at
Goulburn on Saturday. This was E. Bevan and t
n?T£t d 9 he eh . ain pionship, the broad jump
of 18ft 2 n„ the high jump of sft. sfin., and filkd
second place in the 120yds hurdles. He fc
younger brother of that Silas B. who electrified the
N.S.W A.A A ; championships a while ago by clear
h lg ti° ft ' after he had taken bis hat off. The
brothers Bevan are worth watching. ne
George Gray’s first long game of billiards
in public since his return from England (it is han
pemng at Alcock’s room, Melbourne), reveals that
young master of red-hazard striking as a vastly im
proved professor of the all-round game. Still it
very questionable whether he will ever be able tf
hold his own in pretty play at the top of the table
with Lindrum and other first-class billiardists He
doesn t shine—except at his one masterful stroke—
m comparison with Tom Aiken, the Scottish cW
pion, who partners him in his exhibition matches
;' lken , 18 at , a disadvantage in putting his more delb
cate touch to bonzolines, instead of the ivory balls
he has been accustomed to ; but already he has made
some good breaks. Aiken, too, has an individuality
?L style > , whlch is,, perhaps, more interesting to aspir-
ing amateurs than the ordinary best professional
play, and his ability to keep up his form made it
necessary for George Gray, last week, to resort fre-
quently to his in off the red,” in order to get within
winnmg distance of the leader. Gray concedes
-000 in 16,000, and the game will last until Satur-
THE LAY OF THE LEAGUE PLAYERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Paul McNamee, a prominent Maoriland referee,
is in Sydney, and has joined the Referees’ Associa-
tion. The new whistler is well known round about
Sydney.— Daily rag.
Unexpectedly large gate receipts were again the
order of the day at yesterday’s practice a.iatches.
At the Sports Ground no less a sum than £'l7l was
received. — Daily -publication.
The starling flutters from the pines;
The butcher-bird withholds his notes;
Some silver-eyes within the vines
Are wheezing in their tiny throats.
Though tired is all the feathered band,
And Nature’s songs are weak and thin,
Chirrup! Chirree! On every hand
The umpire whistles winter in!
What though with sharp and vicious trills
The postman whistles at the door,
To leave a hundred little bills
Which up to now were whistled for?
We go to him with joyous heart;
For, light of foot and bare of shin,
The football umpire’s made a start
To whistle all the dollars in!
Our loafing’s ended, so to speak!
Ten thousand blokes in steady jobs
Will idolise us every week,
And swell our coffers with their bobs !
We players do not care a jot
Whichever side may lose or win,
do long as to the common “pot”
The gate receipts come rolling in!
The whistles shriek on tram and train!
The west wind whistles ’cross the ground !
Each ferry boat takes up the strain
And magnifies the piercing sound!
Yet sweetly' shrill and rising clear.
Above the harsh commercial din,
One blast rings out! From far and near
The paying push comes trooping in!!
N.s.w.
BOYCE BOWDEN.


All AtKletes
Use
s.oxsisoa
* PARROT
brand ••
eucalyptus oil.
*
$
m
i
Bosisto*s •• Parrot Brand ” Eucalyptus Oil,
tK© Famed Remedy for Rheumatism, Sprains,
.Bruises, Wounds, Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis
Wmmi >
A
C.R.
Ta-
|*oyalL
MAI'U
Vf
n
v, wi<
A
erever
(he/Ha/7
v
/Goes
Wherever it is possible to forward Goods -by Rail, Steamer, Mail-
Coach or Pack-Horse—to the furthest boundaries of the Common-
wealth—THEßE OUR GOODS GO. No matter how far away from
us YOU are, by virtue of our Mail-Order System the best that the
City Folk can get is yours also—and at the same price!
OUR BIG NEW
“MAIL-ORDER” CATALOG
that you’ll like to keep and is worth paying for is yours post free
for the asking. It shows everything in Mens’ and Boys’ 'Wear and
Ladies’ Costumes and Dress Accessories in a complete range of
styles. No Country Home should be without this Catalog.
WRITE FOR YOUR COPY TO DAY.
Lincoln, Stuart & Co.
Pty.
Ltd.
“Mail-Order Tailors and Outfitters,”
244-54 Flinders Street,
Melbourne.
HEALTH aod STRENGTH
SHORT CUTS.
Judicious exercise is the natural, the quickest, and the onlv
permanent way to secure better health and greater strength
.But be sure the exercises are suitable to your physique, state
of health, and constitution.
Learn a good system such as my Postal Course of Health
axd Strength Exercises, where every movement is prescribed
for the good reason that it will effect improvement, rapidly and
permanently. J
By a ca refill study of your individual physical shortcomings, a
simple, yet scientific, course will be prescribed specially for you.
The excellent results my pupils are gaining are proof of the
efficiency of my methods. Read this letter:—
“I feel much stronger and better in every way since I
started your course. I thank you most sincerely for
bringing me better health. I will always recommend
your postal course to my friends.”
H.L.S., Warwick, Queensland.
hull particulars of my system, cost of tuition, etc., are given
m my illustrated 40-page Booklet, “Health and Strength
from Self Culture.”
You ought to write for a copy. Kindly send three pennv
stamps for postage.
ƒ
Reg.L .(“Snowy”) Baker
184 Belmont Buildings, Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Old
oo (double‘o')
Orkney Whisky
L. W. DODGE 8 CO.
(VICTOR TRUMPER & DODGE LTD.)
CRICKET SEASONALITIES.
All Cane Bats, Bound Blades, 5/6
each.
Cane and Rubber Spliced Handles
8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 13/6, 15/-, 17/6, 20/-
The “ SPECIAL ” Cross Rubber, 22/6.
The VICTOR DRIVER, 75/-
Victor Trumper & Dodge Ltd. Special,
30/-
BALLS—Leather Match, 4/6, 5/-, 5/3,
5/9, 6/3 each.
WICKETS—Brass Tops and Steel Shod,
5/6, 6/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6 per set.
Leg Guards. Wicket-keeping Caunt-
lets, Batting Cloves, Matting,
Boots and Shoes, Shirts, Sweaters,
Trousers, etc.
Our Illustrated Handbook of Sports
will be posted to you free on receipt of
your application.
317 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
f
SHELL’
BENZINE
THE CLEAN
AND
POWERFUL SPIRIT
FOR ALL MOTORS
THE “LA NOVA”
CIGAR
ƒ
Actual Size.
A Dutch Cigar
de Luxe.
If you enjoy a mild
Cigar with a fine,
satisfying flavor and a
pleasing aroma, I sug-
gest that you try my
“La Nova”—the last
word in mild Cigars.
Price
30/- per 100
Packed in boxes of 25,
7/6 per box. Each
box weighs 12 ounces.
Postage extra.
My illustrated Cata-
logue. entitled “A
Bo ok of Good
Smokes.” will interest
every smoker, and will
be sent free upon
request.
A. M. SOLOMON,
Cigar Expert,
173 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
nu.n STANDARD
of EXCELLENCE
ƒ
set by the Rigney Shoes place them in the fore-
front of high-class footwear, and as long as they
maintain this standard of excellence they will
always be the shoes for well-dressed gentlemen.
This boot is made from choice Vici Kid, has patent
toecap—very smart and serviceable.
18/6 & 21/-
Postage 9d. extra.
Wrtte for a Copy of our Catalogue ,
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.,
“ The Men’s Exclusive High-Grade Shoe Parlors.”
305 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY-
And at City Btiildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE*


1:
r "y
JOi
<?
*1
K K
■>7
Sm>
«-■'■■’F '•
ejrsKirinen
f
/"I HAVE
RECEIVED A
SECOND LIFE”
THE TEftPEST
Hundreds of thousands of people have derived
immeasurable benefits
From Sanatogen
Thousands of them have written to the proprietors
to say so. Their testimony records marvellous results,
which, until its discovery, could never have been obtained
by any means at the disposal of the physician.
Among the writers are many celebrities with whose
names
You will
be as familiar as with your own.
Tens of thousands of doctors throughout the world
have prescribed Sanatogen, which a medical authority,
writing in The Medical Press and Circular, states, ias
strengthened the physician’s hand a hundredfold, win e,
he adds, “the wonders brought about by this prepara-
tion are no less manifold than amazing.”
This is high praise for any preparation to
Receive
but it has been endorsed by innumerable statements.
Here, for instance, is one by that famous Auth ° re :® ’
Madame Sarah Grand : “ Sanatogen has done everything
for me which it is said to be able to do for cases
nervous weakness and exhaustion. I began to talc
after nearly four years’ enforced idleness r .°“ l l ex
weakness, and felt the benefit almost immediately,
now, after taking it steadily three times a day w
twelve weeks, I find myself able to enjoy both
and plav again, and also able to do as much of bo
ever did.” ,
To be so revitalised is, indeed, in Shakespeares
words, to receive
A Second Life
That experience may be duplicated bv e^ ery
of these words, for Sanatogen so influences t ie ,
and muscular systems, the digestion and the S r^ a jj-.
making organs, that it restores the normal ba a
organised by illness or disease.
Sanatogen is sold by all Chemists, in tins, at 2s.
3s. 6d. and 6s. 6d. . ,
instructive booklet, entit e
will be sent, post free to an
An int resting and
The Art of Living,’
who write, mentioning this paper, to A. Wulfing <-
17, Bond Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
“L.H.P.”: Antony and Cleopatra,” on Sydney
Royal boards, once more recalls ancient memories
of Louise Pomeroy’s production in February of
1882 at the same house. Sydney has had to wait
31 years for another. The American star was Cleo-
patra and J. B. Steele was Antony. Joe Tolano
(now a boniface at Woolloomooloo) was the clown
and Harry Leston played Lepidus. Harry Jerdau,
so long at West’s, appeared as Csesar, and Theo Ham-
ilton stage-managed and did Pompeius in between
times. Pompeius is out in the present version because
Asche drops all the M'senum scenes. In 1882 John
Musgrave was really fine as Enobarbus, and Maggie
Stewart made a shapely Charmian. Clint and Hen-
nings did some fine scenery, and the revel on Pom-
pey’s galley was a feature. Herbert Flemming was
Eros, and Sam Lazar or Alison (I don’t know which)
made the ads. glow with “over a hundred auxiliaries
on the stage.”
Una Bourne’s engagement with Melba at the be-
ginning of the year must have been a valuable intro-
duction to the English provincial musical circles, for
that gifted young woman Una figured as solo pianist
of Melba’s touring concert co., other supporters of
the star be'ng Edmund Burke, the basso whom she
brought to Australia ; a flautist (Moyse) and a piano
accompanist (Lapierre). Writing to her friend, Mr.
Laurie Abrahams, on January 21, Una Bourne said
that the concerts were going splendidly, but the man-
ager was much troubled by the flautist and piano
man, for neither of them could speak English, and
when they went for a walk together they invariably
lost themselves.
Passed to Paradise, England’s oldest clown, James
Doughty, aged 95. He went into the show business
in 1835 as clown and acrobat at fairs and such like
public oc ions. Soon he was promoted to the
theatres, for he was three kinds of clown —singing,
talking and tumbling—a rare combination At
Drury Lane he was engaged by James Anderson,
tragedian and otherwise powerful actor, who will
be remembered by old Australian playgoers. When
under another management Drury Lane, the
“National Theatre,” was transformed into a circus.
Doughty again clowned there, and made a hit by
donning bloomer costume, which had just then been
invented in America. E. T. Smith, father of Mel-
bourne’s Dr. L. L., was another manager who ran
Drurv Lane as a circus. He engaged three clowns,
of whom Doughty was one. During his latter years
Doughty lived on a company of trained dogs, which
beasts he exhibited at seaside resorts and minor
music-halls.
The 70-year-old Sarah Bernhardt has been in a
smash at Los Angeles, California. On her way to the
theatre her motor ran into a heavy truck, and the
fragments of it flew up and hit the stars. Sarah
only flew halfway up, so she returned in time for the
performance with nothing worse than a wrenched
ankle, a bleeding lip and a few bodily bruises. In
spite of the misadventure she insisted on playing as
usual, and was, of course, applauded for her pluck.
“You are too kind, my friends,” she said to the
audience, as she faced it with the wreck of the
vehicle still in her hair. “Your sweet sympathy has
healed all my woes. When the heart is young
bruises don’t last long.”
Ethel Irving was, at latest advices, going into
management on her own account in London. Ethel
has apparently no fear of ridicule, for April l was
billed as the day on which she was to start at the
London Globe. Most manageresses would have care-
fully avoided that date through dread of being
written down an ass. Ethel thinks that she has
spotted a winner in “Vanity,” a new play by Ernest
Dennv, who scored a success some time ago with
“All-of-a-Sudden, Peggy.” An English comedy fresh
and sweet,” is how Ethel describes “Vanity.” Solo-
mon, who ran a show of his own in Jerusalem, called
it “vexation of spirit.” Dion Boucicault is to pro-
duce the piece—Australia’s old friend, Dion.
“Kodak”: My picture-show education is incom-
plete, and I am studiously neglecting it. This is what
i have learnt up to now:—
(1) All elderly men, who wear the variety of
whiskers known ’as “sideboards,” are hard-hearted,
and are doomed to humiliation at the hands of the
angel child. They always perish while saving the
angel child from something or other.
(2) All angel children are d —d fools with fire—
also with railway trains, balloons, rivers, wild
animals and traffic.
(3) Roll-top desks are not intended for writing
on. Thev are used principally to support your head
while you think of What Might Have Been, and weep
bitterly into the ink.
(4) When the agitated wife and mother works
her mouth as if she were chewing a piece of tough
steak, she is merely saying that John should have
been ’home long agoj and that she doesn't know what
can be keeping him. (P.S.—This is what makes
picture-show dialogue so nourishing.)
(5) Even the least emotional men throw their
wives about when the usual domestic crisis arrives.
(P.S.-— If you have hitherto neglected to do this,
please make a note.)
(6) If you don’t gesticulate like the picture
people when you talk, there must be something
wrong with you—or with the picture people. Are
you stiff in the joints, or have they got the jumps?
(7) Fat men are the funniest because they have
more face to express themselves w'th, and are gener-
ally bald in addition. The very best humorists are
shaped like eggs. .
(8) No house can long contain an angel child and
a guilt''’ secret without bursting.
(9) Af-er you have read the screened synopsis of
the coming scene, vou really don’t need to see the
pictures. But the pictures—which the showman in-
s;sts on giving you—are not understandable without
the synopsis. This indicates what a complete sort
of thing the picture-show is. (“John. Brings Home
News of the Tragedy at the Mine”: Victure of John
masticating the atmosphere in front of open-mouthed
audience.) , , .....
(10) If the film drama starts happily, it is going
to end sadlv; if it starts sadly, it is going to end
hapnilv. The glad element of surprise has been
eliminated by the various improvements in the lan-
tern In the cheerful, early days, the operator used
sometimes to get burnt and be heard swearing in the
<^a ('ll) It is as well to know the marks of the angel
child m order that you mav start hating her early.
The chief sign is that all the characters, good, bad
and rotten, grow gloomv at her approach. She also
(a) prances along to indicate a sunnv disposition:
(b) clasps her hands to indicate ingrained piety;
and (c) holds her left chest w’th both hands as a
sign that her heart is full. Any picture child who
has none of the above tricks is a plain kid.
The newest beauty fad is crawling. .Not
the chicken crawl ragtime, nor the habit ot
crawling to persons of title, but actual cavort-
ing on all-fours about the floor or on a lawn.
The thing started in the London hospitals,
where it was prescribed for spinal weak-
ness. “Good for indigestion,” somebody said ;
so the fad got another crop of adherents.
And then the figure! There really does seem
fo be something in it so far a.s indigestion is
concerned. Who knows —if Pierpont Morgan
hadn’t been a slave to habit and Walked
upright, he might have lived another oO
years!
Francie Adler, of Australia, seems to have
made a stirring success in the brand-new
grand opera, “Cyrano,” which was staged
the other day at the Metropolitan Opera
House, New York. Francie, who is now
Madame Alda, created the main role of
Itoxane. New York paper pictures of the
star show her as a very plump lady nowa-
davs, with her black hair a-curling round
her head. She is married to the director of
the opera.
Florence Hamer, the copper-crowned
actress who played here in “The Marriage
of Kitty,” lias just achieved a third husband,
and retired from stage life. She divorced her
first venture, and married a tea-planter
named Masson. This marriage was also a
failure, and the dark-complected gentleman
was kindly but very firmly divorced. Now
it is confidently anticipated that the right
man has transpired. The lady declares it
was worth suffering her two previous trials
to secure her present blessing.
The vast Butt took possession of America
the other day with the emphasis of an ele-
phant attaching a bun to itself. Eulogistic
press cuttings followed her about like faith-
ful dogs. As regards N’York, it may vera-
ciously be said that she came, she saw and
she staggered it. But she is proudest of her
Continental European succesfees. In Berlin
two princesses (Margaretta and Leopold ot
Prussia) came tb hear her sing. As they
neither rose and ostentatiously left the the-
atre, nor threw things at her, the deduction
was drawn that they approved of her efforts.
Hopeful suspicion became joyous certainty
when she and her husband were asked to tea
by the Royal ladies next day. In Germany
a princess would be in danger of losing her
job if she fraternised with an artist who
couldn’t sing, in much the same spirit as a
Jew who can’t make money is often forced
by his co-religionists to re-name himself
O’Flanagan. Vienna and Budanest also
approved of the contralto, and she scored a
huge success in Paris.
Melbourne is having its pier strengthened
and a special gangway prepared, both jobs
to be completed by the end of this month.
By the way, the immortal children are to
be stationed, not here, but in Sydney. Your
Mr. George Innes has found them one ot the
few local edifices, suitable to their needs,
that have not been transformed into hash-
towers. There is room in this mansion ror
16 nurses and nine chauffeurs, not to mention
kennel-maids, dog-watchers, stewards, major-
dbinos. stud-grooms, chefs, under-chefs, keep-
ers of the draw-bridge and other customary
features of a compact villa residence.
The Denman lady will board the Orsova
at Adelaide, on May 15, and travel to
London, with Major Quilter and Help Nut-
tin- in charge of the luggage. Her Ex., who
feels the need of a change, is going to stay
for a few days with mother. The rest of her
few weeks’ sojourn in England will be devoted
to paying overdue visits, and she will return
to Australia early in September. The infants
Thomas and Judith are to stay here and
keep their vice-regal pa from feeling too
lonely. Mrs. Cudworth, a newly-imported
addition to the staff, will keen a trained eye
on their infantile gyrations and chide them
when necessary.
I have just received the following intima-
tion from distant Edinboro’ (N. 8.)
Mr. Charles Skinner and Miss Elsie Skinner an-
nounce the marriage of their sister Elizabeth to Mr.
Allen C. Hinckley on Monday, February 3, at the
United Free High Church, Edinburgh, Scotland.
Hinckley, of Melba’s Grand Opera Com-
pany, brought a batch of introductions
to these parts which franked him into ex-
clusive circles. He proved a great favorite.
In fact, he presently became known affec-
tionately to all hands as “Hinck.” A man
must be popular to achieve that sort of
thing. Did anyone, for instance, ever slap
King Charles the Bad of Navarre on _ the
back and call him “Baddy?” It isn’t
recorded.
At a recent wedding-feast here the man
who sat next the bride was named Mr.
Judge. I don’t think people with painfully
suggestive names like that should be allowed
at weddings, any more than we would, in
these enlightened times, stand, at such a
ceremony, that depressing old w T edding-guest
whom Coleridge mentions as “beating his
breast” because “he heard the loud bassoon.”
For that matter, bassoons at weddings—
however, enough.
A Melbourne girl, who last year went in
for matrimony on an Indian tea plantation,
took exactly four weeks to discover that
marriage was a failure, and another seven
davs to put a stretch of sea between herself
and hubby. He fled imploringlv after his
bride, and was rejected by her in London.
She is now heroically tackling the job of
earning her own bread and butter, hats and
’bus fares. The arrival of a _ lusty infant
threatens to complicate the situation,_ and
mother may have to reconsider her decision.
An Englishman bv the name of Clarke
has just arrived with the intention of breed-
ing cocoanuts by the million in our waste
tropic spaces. A fellow passenger with this
enthusiast was Miss Maisie le Soeur, a much-
talked-of footlights charmer, who went to
London two years ago, pursued by a perfect
maze of thrilling and romantic rumor, bhe
is somewhat slimmer than of yore, but in
other respects looks absolutely scrumptious.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.
“Melb ”: Smith and Robins, Yankee soul-snatchers,
have been and seen and conquered. They were in
Melbourne for exactly four days; and in that brief
space they found out all about the city s Sins and
the best way to deal with them. It reminds me of
Petion, who, during the French Revolution, was sent
to England to obtain a complete knowledge of Eng-
lish law. He did it by sitting for two days in the
Old Bailey.
WANTED A DEVIL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Robertshaw’s Mephistopheles is rather a con-
ventional devil. . . ,
From a Melbourne criticism of “Faust.
O gifted actor, won’t you please
A brand new devil give to us,
A novel Mephistopheles ?
We’re full up of the crimson cuss
Of “Faust,” whose roasted chestnuts all
Date back beyond his primal fall.
The lank, lean devil who is grim,
A ghastly kind of bore we deem.
We’re weary unto death of him
Who breathes a kind of purple steam,
And devils who are too polite
The popular contempt invite.
We ask the artists to submit
A well-bred devil free of creed,
Philosopher and genial wit,
With human sins. In short, we need
A fiend with whom we all may be
Content to pass eternity.
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


IfiOPNES
wn 151rr
1 FORM'S WHISKY
uphold? the highest
traditions of Glen-
livet —the home of fine
Scotch Whisky. THORNE'S
is an OLD HIGHLAND
MALT WHISKY whose
Purity, Quality and Flavor
have maintained it in the
estimation of the con-
noisseur,
Incomparable.
;t'Cv H<
'C:
tu Ti 1
r jflf
ara
=?
I >3^
r-
(f
. »ii iosasi
?r *>. v£ *a
Jr
v->
-■ • C
rf,l3Ks4f«.i
fJ.iMSr <■ rhi
.as
s/-> ii
%4tß<¥liB
'.Mi'
ZiiUa
s)
n <iW*Ni-W If V>??
House of(ok*p«s !
!’ .-dim
nWiitr .*
a ■ fi
Rthornc 6-50k3 Limiteo
-, CRmtotK Distiuert r~
pp
ft**.*
LiohJlobii T<*«Hiii.£Of)DO|f££
Jwk Ei|*fti.»Kec
as®
§f&f
ft*
Sfi
’^JaTuqu
r4.'
mm
m
m i
art?
&I
P »T
'\£.aB|
<:w&
iiUi.
vn
ft
?nvff7i(Kb'(iU^


Bottle=fed
Babies
How often little, bottle-fed
babies suffer from weak-
ness, anaemia, rickets and
teething troubles. Yet a
little SCOTT’S Emulsion,
added to the contents of
the bottle, will build up
the weakest child, will en-
rich the blood, renew the
strength and make that
child healthy, sturdy and
strong ; and, at same
time, genuine SCOTT’S
will strengthen the lungs
to resist coughs, colds, bron-
chitis, and all throat and
chest ailments. Start baby
on SCOTT’S to-day —but be
sure to get SCOTT’S with
the fishman on the package.
SCOTTS
Emulsion
TRADE
ƒ
f
MARK
SHORT Stories, Novels,
Poems, etc., Wanted.
We are commissioned by a well-known
weekly journal to offer prizes of £lO 10s.'
and £5 ss. for the best short stories sub-
mitted before July 31, 1913.
We also have a purchaser for a novel by
an Australian writer.
Highest prices secured for Short Stories,
Poems, Special Articles, etc.
MS. revised and every assistance given to
beginners.
1913 Prospectus posted free on request.
Australasian Literary Agency,
Pendennis Chambers, Sydney.
ANTINEURASTHIN
TREATMENT OF
NERVOUS AND WASTING DISEASES.
The wonderful properties of Antineurasthin (Leci-
thin in an absolutely pure form) for successfully
treating all nerve maladies, Dyspepsia, Anaemia,
Rheumatism, etc., and imparting permanent mental
and nerve force, reflect the latest and most important
achievements in medical science.
One of the most important of the wonderful re-
sults obtained by this treatment is that not alone
does it build up the nervous system by feeding the
brain and nerve-cells with their natural food ele-
ment, but on account of its beneficial action upon
the process of nutrition and upon the blood, the
whole general health shows prompt improvement,
particularly in wasting diseases.
A FREE TRIAL.
In order that the worth of Antineurasthin may b»
tested, a sample supply, together with a treatise or
nervous maladies, will be forwarded to any address
in Australia on receipt of 2d. in stamps to cover
postage by the wholesale representative, H. A. God-
dard No. 3 Australasian Chambers, 406-414 Queen
Street, Brisbane; or Branches: 194 Vickery’s Cham-
bers, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney; 9-15 Safe Deposit
Buildings, Queen Street, Melbourne; 3 Ellershaw’s
Buildings, Cliff Street, Fremantle; 213 Smeeton’s
Buildings, Queen Street, Auckland.
Serial No. 810.—Guaranteed under the Pure Foods
Act of New South Wales by H. A. Goddard, Sydney,
to contain not less than 10 per cent. Pure Lecithin.
No. 810. [2
, Ayer’s Hair Vigor does not*
color the hair; but it stops 1
falling hair, removes dan-
druff, and greatly promotes
k growth of hair. i
A CORRESPONDENT writes: “There is
always one feature in The Lone
Hand each month that is alone worth the
price charged for the whole number.” The
price of The Lone Hand is 6d.
■raft?
The Queen of Table Waters
QUARTS, PINTS AND SPLITS.
“Aberdeen”
The Brand of Rugs for
Your Horses
m
“ABERDEEN” is a symbol of quality-
strength—and durability in Horse and Dow
Rugs. They lead the way throughout Am
tralia! They fit excellently and fasten
quickly and surely. Their finish is good.
their workmanship sound and reliable.
Write direct to us if not obtainable
locally.
SMITH, COPELAND S GV
NOTE NEW ADDRESS:
New Factory & Warehouse: 33=37 REGENT STREET
(Opp. Central Railway Station), SYDNEY.
AGENTS -—VICTORIA— J. Bartram & Son, Bourke Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND— H. I. H. Ross, Enwara Street, Brisbane.
Herbs Won’t Cure Cancer or Consumption,
but Any Other Disease They Will
This is my experience—and I speak as a Chemist and Pharmacist with a very wide
knowledge of all treatments. 1 would like you to try my Herb Course —no matter what
the illness is. you-will' find it do you real, permanent good. Just tell me your symptoms
and I will prepare you a full month’s course of Herbal Treatment for £l, and post it
with full directions’ to any address in the Commonwealth.
Don’t think there is anything “quack” in the treatment —there is not. Herbs were
the only medicines used some vears ago—and sickness was less common then than to-day.
Send £1 to-day for a Full Month’s Course and Free Letter of,
Advice.
J. W. CASE,, ph. c., m.p.s.,
Botanic Pharmacist, BRISBANE, Q.
-
THE
FIRST TUBE
of Pebeco you use will clearly demonstrate its merits to the
full. The taste is totally different from that of any other
dentifrice; not flat, but quite distinctive and agreeable, a
taste remarkably clean, refreshing and purifying, a taste
which, once accustomed to, you will not willingly miss.
OBTAINABLE ALL CHEMISTS.
Trial Tube, with useful Book and interesting test, Free
for three penny stamps, on application to the Sole Agent.
C. ARNOLD
(Dept. M), 6 O’Connell Street, Sydney
(WHOLESALE ONLY). 13
Hunyadi Janos
Liver disturbances are, as a rule, due to indiscretions of diet,
to excess of wine and to want of exercise. The condition, how-
ever, may be promptly and thoroughly remedied by a wineglass-
ful of Hunyadi Janos Natural Aperient Water taken every
morning on arising, before breakfast. It brings relief in the
natural, easy way. Bottled at the springs, just as nature
creates it and intends it should be taken. Sold by all chemists.
The Famous NATURAL Aperient Water.
Pre-eminent
as the Queen of Dress Fabrics is the
LOUIS
VELVETEEN,
with all its charming lustrous
finish; draping exquisitely to suit
the clinging fashions of the day—
yet sold at a price within the
reach of all.
DO NOT TOLERATE A SUBSTITUTE.
Every Yard you buy
should be stamped L’O'U’l'S
Champion Shoe
Machinery Go.,
St. Louis
U.S.A
Combination harness and Shoe Stitchers,
Nailers, and Finishing Outfits (power
or foot). Easily operated.
NON-ROYALTY.
No Shoe Repair Shop Complete without
“ CHAMPION ” Outfits.
J. W. LARBALESTIER, LTD.
Sole Australasian Agents,
9
ƒ
CIRCULAR QUAY EAST, SYDNEY,
TALOGUES (ILLUSTRATED) POST FREE ON APPLICATION.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. Ao
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
A.A.: Isn’t there something wrong about
that yarn re the utterly miserable wages for which
women toil in the Vic. hop fields? Why do they do
it ? Almost any woman who likes to call herself a
cook or housemaid can get three times the money you
mention. Furthermore, seeing that there are only 121
acres under hops in all Victoria, and they are scat-
tered over five counties, it is hard to understand
how, in one centre, the hoppers live in “rows” of
miserable humpies. Surely one row would hold them
all. Please supply details C. J.T.: Faced with the
problem of why your strong and healthy six months’
old infant’s complexion is snow-white, we are fain to
own ourselves baffled. We have no information to
impart, no advice to offer, no anything. .. .Grad:
Even if it were worth while touching, it is too late
now. . . .Mulga : Not up. .. . J.P.H.: To your know-
ledge the matter forwarded has never appeared in
print? Quite right. To our knowledge it never
will. .. .C.H.M.: Essay on “Some Things About
Women” read to The Bulletin’s tame flapper oyer
a corn-beef supner and repudiated as dull and sin-
less J.W.R.: Pleased to print “The Night Ex-
press” :
The engine-driver stood on the footplate,
While onward swiftly sped the train,
He was leaving his home and mother,
Perhaps never to see her again.
He had sworn he would be true for ever
To the girl he had prom’sed to wed,
And though thousands of miles did them sever,
Still to his stoker mate he huskily said:
“I wonder if she is thinking of me now,
Or if some other chap s arm her waist entwines,
Or if her lips are pressed upon his hard ones,
To be away from her is very hard lines.
“I don’t suppose it matters much, anyway,
I always was a most unfortunate chap,
But mother is a true and constant friend to me
Through good or ill or any other dire mishap. >
“And she would keep my memory ever green,
If I should happen dead to fall to-night,
And hang my photo, on the dining-room wall,
That framed enlargement makes me look all right.
“I remember ’twas that photo, made my darling
love me,
And decided her to link her fate with mine,
And I hope my mother and my sweetheart
Will be thinking of me as I race along the line.
“She often said she wished I could give up this
work,
And come home white at night instead of black,
She didn’t know I wasn’t always like that,
This is dirty work and that’s a fact.,
“Hark! What was that?” he said, with staring
eyes,
That through the darkness peered straight ahead,
What was it made him stagger back in dread?
The head-lights lit the track for miles ahead.
For in the very centre of the track
Stood one who was as dear to him as life,
For whom he would have shed his last drop of blood,
She whom he hoped some day to call his wife.
She stood there while the train sped swiftly onward,
No fear she showed or anyth’ng like fright,
A frightful shudder shook his manly frame,
“My God!” he cried, and leapt into the night.
Henry P.: You ask if “a ‘fair day’s work’ is
one that will earn some profit for the boss” ? Well,
if you don’t contrive to own —either singly or in
a co-operative fashion —your own factory, machinery,
capital, buying organisation, lying organisation,
selling organisation, office, book-keeping system,
and all the rest —in fact, if you hire these
things from another man, a fair day’s work
will probably have to leave some profit for
the boss. What is a fair day’s work for a horse?
Is it enough to feed the animal, or is it supposed also
to cover the driver’s wages and wear and tear of the
cart, harness and whip? Till the co-operative horse
acquires brains enough to drive himself, he will
probablv go on earning oats for somebody. . . .Con-
stant Reader: (1) Can’t tell you what was the big-
gest figure ever attained by the British National
Debt. It reached its apex at the end of the Napo-
leonic wars, but the accounts were in such _con-
fus'on that these estimates were made by eminent
statisticians: —
Doubleday .. .. ..£944,152.000
Whittaker . . • • • • 900,436,000
Porter . • . . . . 885,186.000
McCulloch . . .. .. 840.850.000
(2) Can’t say. Various Chancellors of the Exchequer
fake their figures in various ways. Probably 1888.
(3) At March 31, 1913, £674,744,567 and about an
equal amount of local debt. If the two are added
together there is a steady increase in Britain’s lia-
b lities. (4) Too tired to figure out British debt
per head. Do it yourself. (5) The Commonwealth,
at June 30, 1912, owed £277,124,095, or £5B 10s.
3d. per inhabitant. But remember, that the local
debt here is very small, while in Britain it is enorm-
ous ; that the public debt here includes almost all
the capital of the railway system, wh'le the thirteen
hundred million pounds, which represent the British
railways, are not included in the British debt; and
that th's country gets very wild when local rates
reach 2s. in the' £, while 10s. in the £ is by no
means uncommon in Britain.... Ralph Wood: Only
a lecture, and not a very cheerful one at that
J.D.K.: Britain’s debt is really growing nowadays
about, as fast as any other debt on earth, but much
of it is called local debt, because Britain shoves
almost all its public works expenditure on to local
authorities. Railways are private affairs, and their
debt is private debt, so the so-called National Debt
is almost entirely a war liability. In 1891 the
United Kingdom owed about £927,000,000 of Gov-
ernment and local debt. In 1911 the combined bill
was about £1,315,000.000, an increase of nearly
£400,000.000. The privately-owned railways of the
United Kingdom are in debt (in the way of deben-
tures) to the extent of somewhere between
£400,000,000 and £500,000,000. Haven’t the ex-
act figures at hand Gerald Barken: Once more,
the old text —cut out pars and forward to accountant,
giving date and page of issue... .Snarler: Will your
contribution miss the basket? Not while there’s a
basket on the premises. .. .0.: “Who know not yet
where sweet Contentment lays.” Quite right. The
accursed fowl Contentment conceals its nest with
great ingenuity. Few of us know what its eggs
taste like when hard boiled....Q. (Brisbane): Very
small and tinkling. .. .Walter O.: Doesn’t possess a
punch....G. Christie: Still some distance from the
printer and his devil. . . .1.L.1.: Verses over the
horizon... .M.S. (New Hebrides): Hardly suitable
in the mass. Will trv and dress some of it into
paragraph form. Ghvl to consider further contribu-
tions, preferably paragraphs. .. .Hopscotch : Almost
painful. .. .Will R.: Both well-meaning poems down
and out. .. .B. O. Dkin: Could not throw it out with-
out a curse....R. C. Adam: The Religious Editor
was drinking in the rum barrel he calls his study
when we sent it in. Counsel’s opinion will be forth-
coming when the usual complimentary bottle is for-
warded. .. .K.C.: Too labored... .C.E.T.: Discon-
nected sort of yelp... .E.K.: Promoter soon tottered
to the basket... .T.O’R.: Good try, but sketchily
told. Returning MS. Try it elsewhere... .P.N.R.:
No use to U5....Y.: Unsuitable. .. .Boganneer: We
put our trust in the yawning basket.... Grae: Ama-
teurish P.M.D.: Neither, thanks W.M.C.:
Please understand that you wrote those hobbling
verses to fill in your own time, not ours..,.John
Healy: Well, what do you want to talk about it
for?....Red Hat: But was that the only action
taken against the Gent One?—.Wilson B.: Verses
about Joe Cook of no value.


Public Opinion and
Beale HigK-grade Pianos.
The great majority of our Pianos are sold on the personal recommendation of users, and we are constantly receiving letters from our
customers praising the Beale High-Grade Pianos. Our instruments are in use in every part of Australia; in New Zealand, Fiji, Samoa, New
Caledonia, Mauritius, South Africa, India, and on the Continent of Europe; and everywhere they give the same unbounded satisfaction.
Below we give a few (greatly condensed) extracts from unsolicited testimonials from buyers of Beale High-Grade Pianos.
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Mi'. FRED L. GOODMAN, Mascotte, Hardy
Street, Ashfield:—
“Splendid, and the tone is perfect. Pro-
fessional musicians have highly commended
it. You are quite at liberty to refer any in-
tending purchaser, desirous of independent
testimony, to me.”
Mr. TV ALTER BAXTER, Sen., Albert Street,
Wickham:—
“Entire satisfaction. Keeping up its splen-
did reputation.”
Mr. RAYMOND WALKER, Coolalie:—
“Very pleased with piano in every way.
Neighbors admire very much.”
Mrs. T. A. HAYNES, Alandale, Cockamid-
gera:—
“Very much pleased with piano. Entire
satisfaction in every way.”
Mr. F. WELLS, Wattamolla, Berry:—
“Piano gives every satisfaction. Neighbors
and friends all speak of it in the highest
terms.”
Mr. F. A. McGINLEY, Sale Street, Orange:—
“May mention that we are thoroughly
pleased with the instrument. Beautiful rich
tone.”
The PRINCIPAL, Cook’s Hill Girls’ Superior
Public School, Newcastle: —
“The two Upright Grand Pianos supplied
to the school four years ago have been in con-
stant use. They have given entire satisfac-
tion, and are well adapted for school pur-
poses. The tone is sweet and mellow, and the
pitch is fully maintained, necessitating little
attention in the way of tuning.”
Mrs. GRACE E. BROOKS, Yetman, via In-
verell:—
“Very pleased with the piano. Splendid in-
strument, with a lovely tone.”
Mr. FRANK BELFORD, Hon. Sec. Comboyne
Union Hall Trustees, Comboyne:—
“Pleased to say piano purchased from you
for the hall is giving every satisfaction.”
QUEENSLAND.
Mr. N. GOODFELLOW, Mount View, Mus-
grave Road, Red Hill: —
“Very pleased with the piano. Tone is ex-
cellent, sold remains in tune wonderfully
well.”
Mrs. M. M. MARKS, Clifton Station, Mor-
ven:—
“Piano is excellent, and has' stood this
climate exceptionally well. Has only needed
tuning once since I got it.”
Mr. J. PIDGEON, Klienton, Crow’s Nest line,
via Toowoomba:—
“Should like to say that I am very pleased
with the piano. Tone is really beautiful, and
seems to improve with use.”
Mrs. M. CARTER, Fernberg Road, Rasalie: —
“Satisfied with the piano in every way.”
Dr. L. M. McKILLOP, Blackall (Q.)
“It is undoubtedly a magnificent instru-
ment, and your firm is to be congratulated
upon being able to turn out such splendid
work.”
Mr. W. H. SIMPSON, Huelva, Gilliatt:—
“Although this is a very trying climate for
pianos, my Beale is as good as the day it
arrived.”
VICTORIA.
Mr. J. H. BAYNE, Carnavon Street, Auburn:
“A superb instrument with a magnificent
tone. Friends admire it greatly.”
Miss GLADYS WAITE, Norong, via Ruther-
glen:—
“The piano has given me entire satisfac-
tion.”
Mrs. G. M. GOULD, Thomson Street, Hamil-
ton :
“Will never cease recommending your
pianos, as I think so highly of them. Mine
has given nothing but satisfaction.”
Miss L. LOVERING, State School, Kerang:—
“Thoroughly satisfied with the instrument.”
Mr. J. H. ROGERS, Woolocot Street, Co-
burg :
“Must say that everyone who has been to
my place has nothing but praise for the
piano.”
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
Mr. H. J. ARMITAGE, Public' School, Hough-
ton :
“Piano, which I have had for three years,
has been in constant use, and tone is as good
as when I got it. Pianists often remark on
its great purity of tone.”
Mrs. H. WALKER, Wandilo, Mount Gambier:
“Must express my satisfaction with your
beautiful, sweet-toned instrument.”
Mr. JOHN 0. WHITEMORE, Dunoon, Victor
Harbor: —
“Much pleased with the instrument in
every way, and gratified with the opinions of
several friends who are professional musi-
cians.”
Mrs. ROSE A. HUNTER, Fairview, Eu-
duuda:—-
“May say that I am more than pleased
with the piano.”
Mr. WILLIAM J. HOCKING, Kingston:—
“Everyone agrees that it is a splendid in-
strument.”
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Mr. G. A. BEECK, Katanning:—
“Self and family are more than pleased
with the Beale High-grade Piano.”
Mr. J. A. MILLS, York:—
“Quite satisfied with piano in every way.”
Mrs. C. POWELL, Linden Villa, Stirling
Street, Perth: —
“There is not a better instrument in Perth.”
Mr. T. WARD, Wagin, Western Australia:—
“Greatly satisfied in every respect.”
Mr. W. 11. BROWN, Kalgoorlie:—
“Very pleased with the instrument. Much
better than I expected.”
TASMANIA g NEW ZEALAND.
Mr. C. J. lIINE, 28 Hillside Crescent, Laun-
ceston :
“Instrument is all that could be desired.”
Mrs. J. ANDERSON, 19 Burnett Street,
Hobart: —
“Can highly recommend to anyone re-
quiring a first-class piano.”
Mrs. J. HARVEY, Hamilton:—
“Excellent piano. Many have expressed
their delight at hearing an instrument with
so mellow a tone.”
Mr. A. O. WOODS, Liverpool Street, Hobart:
“Tone is even better than when we first got
it. Can recommend strongly.”
Mr. EDMUND ANSCOMBE, 134 Princess
Street, Dunedin, New Zealand: —
“All who have tried it have expressed
themselves as being delighted with its beau-
tiful tone and appearance.”
We have literally thousands more
such testimonials, from almost every
part of the world. The immense suc-
cess attained by the Beale Pianos is
due solely to their high-grade quality.
Prom the very first we have gjven our
utmost endeavor to turn out only thor-
oughly reliable, soundly constructed
pianos, embodying the very best musi-
cal qualities. We have created a won-
derful factory organisation, and we
pay the best brains and the best skill,
so as to ensure a perfect result. We
realise that an Australian-made piano
is subjected to much closer scrutiny
in Australia than any imported piano,
and therefore we make-—we are
compelled to make —our pianos much
better than those of our competitors.
At the same time, by making pianos
in Australia, we are in the position to
make them much better suited to Aus-
tralian conditions. Any competent
cabinetmaker will tell you that timber
seasoned in the cold, damp climate of
Europe and America cannot be ex*-
pected to withstand Australian ex-
tremes of dry heat as well as timber
which is seasoned- in this climate. This
is a most important point in piano-
making, and is one good reason why
so many foreign pianos develop cracked
sounding-boards, split tuning-systems
and faulty casework soon after arrival
in this country. But no man can say
he ever saw a Beale piano with a
cracked sounding-board. We abso-
lutely guarantee that the sounding-
boards of Beale Pianos will never
crack in any climate, because our spe-
cial system of construction renders
cracking an impossibility, at the same
time that it greatly enhances the tonal
qualities of the instrument. Beale
Pianos contain the only practical steel
tuning-system in the world—-so there
can be no question of splitting of the
wrest-plank. And then our patented
system of cross-plied woodwork en-
sures permanence for the outside case
of the pianos.
Be sure of this: the better musician you are, the more you will delight in a Begle High-Grade Piano.
Yde have always on hand a number of good second-hand pianos, taken in part payment of Beale Pianos.
Call and inspect the Beale Pianos now. Inspection does not put you under any obligation whatever. You suit yourself entirely as to
whether you purchase.
If you cannot call, write for Catalogue, which we will be pleased to send post free.
BEALE CO. LTD.
MAKERS OF
BEA LE HIGH-GRADE PI A. NO S
«« The Utmost Care in the Smallest Details.**
CARL VADLR PIANOS.
Prices: ;£49, 55, 60, 05, 70, 75, SO, 85, 95, 100, 115, 150, and 240 Guineas.
378 GEORGE ST., SYD NEY (3 Doors from G.P.0.) 107 SWANSTON ST., MELBOURNE
127 RUNDLE ST., ADELAIDE, S.A. 837 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.
90-92 QUEEN ST., opp. Pike Bros., our new and ONLY Address in BRISBANE.
Branch Offices at Newcastle, Bathurst, Orange, Wagga and Broken Hill, N.S.W.;
Maryborough, Rockhampton, Mackay and Townsville, Queensland; Kalgoorlie, W.A.
TRAVELLERS EVERYWHERE. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE. 25 YEARS’ GUARANTEE.
Head Office and Factories - - TRAFALGAR ST., AN NAN DALE, SYDNEY.
CASH or EASY TERMS. REPAIRS and TUNING. Save Importers’ Profits by Buying Direct from the Manufacturers.


217-
seal MOTOR BAG, fitted with mirror,
purse and head salts bottle. Strong
nickel frame.
1/6.
POCKET COMPASS, brass case, paper
dial.
4/6.
TOBACCO POUCH, buckskin,
pure silver shield, best rubber
lining.
15/ -
CUTLERY SET, comprising half-dozen dessert
knives and forks, xylonite handles, finest
Sheffield Steel,. Complete in velvet-lined case.
AUNDERS
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER .
For Reliable Goods —
Our Stock of Clocks is the Largest in Australasia, our Cutlery and Leather-
ware selections the best. Send for the Free Catalogue of these goods.
15/6.
BRONZE ORNAMENT, on
handsomely-finished black
pedestal; height, 14in.
21/-
8-DAY MARBLETTE STRIKING CLOCK, strikes
every half-hour, accurate, guaranteed reliable time
keeper. Add extra for freight.
15/6.
BRONZE ORNA
MENT, on hand
somely - finished
black pedestal;
height. 14in.
5/6.
SHAVING BOWL and
BRUSH, polished nic-
kel, porcelain china
bowL
8/6.
NICKEL TOILET MIRROR, richly embossed,
with bevelled glass.
WE PAY POSTAGE ON ALL
GOODS BUT CLOCKS AND CHINA.
2/C).
RECTANGULAR
READING
GLASS, suit all
sights, 2/6.
3/6.
807-817 George Street, Sydney
257-
field -.el-finished frame
morocco leather-finished achromatic lenses
sharp definition.
6/6.
GENT.’S COMPANION, containing razor
scissors, corn knife, tweezers and corkscrew
finest Sheffield make. Complete in leather case
5/6.
POCKET BOOK, black leather,
silk lined, nickel lock.
10/6.
GENT.’S TRAVEI CASE, fitted every
convenience.
■ f
*■«
:
x
i
X
a
w
"• • 'C——
9-
fl
It
What a difference stropping makes!
Only those who have used an Auto Strop in comparison
with a non-stropping safety can tell just how much difference
there is—not only in the smooth, close shave which the
sharp stropped blade of an Auto Strop ensures, but in the
simplicity of its use also.
It takes far less time to strop an Auto Strop blade (and so keep it in the pink of condition)
than to put a new blade into a non-stropping safety razor. The Auto Strop is the only razor
that strops itself and consequently
SAVES CONSTANT EXPENSE FOR BLADES.
Aito&trop
k s l F z ET oR
Standard Set, containing self-stropping
Auto Strop Safety Razor, one dozen
improved rust-proof “ Valet blades,
and genuine horsehide strop, complete
in leather-covered case.
Price in Australia - - 22/6
Price in New Zealand 25/-
Sole Depot for Australasia :
PARTRIDGE—ABERCROMBY, Ltd.,
York Chambers, Market Street, Sydney.


Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks. Builders’ Scant-
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS' HALL, LONDON, E.O.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68£ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
The Umaco Cigarette Roller
makes three in one minute,
large or small, hard or soft.
You can make 100 just as you
like them, with just the to-
bacco you prefer.at the cost
of 50 machine-made. Roller
takes no more room than a
pencil in your oocket.. Price
SEVEN PENCE, posted any-
where, with full directions.
Obtainable only from Two for One Shilling.
The Union Co., 299 Elizabeth St., Melb
f
“Things done by halves are never
done right.” “Golcryst,” the new aper-
ient made from Epsom Salts, Senna,
Sarsaparilla, Dandelion, Liquorice and
Ginger, “gets to business” thoroughly.
There are no half measures about
“Golcryst." Yet there is no griping
nor weakening. “Golcryst” has no equal
as a Blood purifying and Rheumatism
curing medicine.
Everywhere 3d., 6d. and Is. sample
posted free by Proprietors,
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO.,
Melbourne.
4J- in the £ Discount off
TABLE SILVER.
Our experiment of a couple of
years ago of taking the wholesale
catalogues of the great English
Manufacturers of Electro-silver
and solid silver goods, and deduct-
ing 20 per cent., or 4/- in the
£, from their prices, was of a
revolutionary character, and might
have landed us in heavy loss, but
IT DID NOT,
owing to our great output, and so
we are continuing the discount.
It only gives us a bare commis-
sion on many lines, but commis-
sions count if numerous enough.
ƒ
Heavily plated on hard White Metal Dishcovers.
12 inches long, 50/-; less 20 %, 40/-
14 inches long, 57/6; less 20 %, 46/-
10 inches long, 72/6; less 20 %, 58/-.
Fairfax 8 Roberts Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
2J g 25 HUNTER STREET.
A Guaranteed 1016 Watch for 3|ll
To induce you to test our Kins of All Cigars or Corn Cob Tobacco, we will give you this
splendid Timekeeper, sold elsewhere at half-a-guinea, for less than half-price.
All you have to do is to send 2/6 for ten fragrant Cigars, and add 3/11 for the Watch. If
you prefer Corn Cob Tobacco, see offer below.
\JL/
r«T
CIGARS.
King of All Reina Victoria, Heavyweight or Rothschild, 4
for 1/- Sample Box of 10, 2/6; 50 for 9/0. Box of 100, 18/6.
Post Free.
King of All Buenos, 6d. each, 8 for 1/-. 50 for 16/6, 100
32/6. Post Free.
King Of All Clubs, 20/- Box of 50. Post Free.
TOBACCO.
2oz. Corn Cob, Packet, Cut, Light or Dark, 10d. The Watch,
3/11. Postage, 6d. Total, 5/3. Inter-State, 2d. extra. Post
Free. The Watch only, 10/6, Post Free.
Large Block Corn Cob, Light or Dark, 1/4. The Corn Cob
Watch, 3-/11. Postage, 6d. Total, 5/9. Inter State, 3d. extra.
p er }b.—Boxes, 6/-; 2oz. Packets, 6/6. Inter-State, extra.
Craig &. AitKen,
654 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Established 30 Years.
SPECIAL ATTRACTIONS
In Ornamental
CLOCKS.
They are of the most pleasing' designs
—very handsome—some in choice
Woods, others in beautiful selected
Marbles. We were offered a big selec-
tion by the manufacturers, at most
favorable prices, and readily closed on
the deal. They are an acquisition to the
home beautiful, and most reliable
timekeepers. Space forbids us to
illustrate more than two styles. Call
and see the fine range, and take ad-
vantage of the exceptionally attractive
prices, only possible through direct
importing of a big, special purchase.
WE PAY COUNTRY POSTAGE
OR CARRIAGE.
Ask or Write for Jewellery Catalogue.
a 12 i m\
I"
9 lAJ
G 9
fc#
Very Attractive Wood Clock, s£in.
high, Accurate «g» /
Timepiece, *■&/"
This Handsome Clock, in Walnut or Oak, Chimes
every Quarter, Eight-Day Wind,
17in. high, Reliable Timepiece,
HOLLINGDALE & KESSELL
Jewellers and
Silversmiths,
98 King Street, Sydney,
ON THE
BLOCK.
Branch Establishment-421 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Stewart Dawson 8 Co
(AUST.) LTD.
These exclusive designs in the New Styles of Engagement
and Dress Rings are procurable only from us.
mond and 18ct.
Gold RING, Plati-
num Circles and
Setting.
*5/10/-
D 3515. —2 Fine
Diamonds in ISct.
Gold and Platinum
Settings,
£9/10/-
D 3518. —Fine Dia-
mond in 18ct. Gold
and Platinum Set-
tines,
D 3813.—11 Fine
Diamonds in 18ct.
Gold and Platinum
Settings,
03812. —Fine Dia-
monds in 18ct.
Gold and Platinum
Settings,
D 3516. —Fine Dia-
monds in 18ct.
Gold and Platinum
Settings,
D 3521. —2 Pine
Diamonds and 2
Emeralds in 18ct.
Gold and Platinum
Setting’s,
D 3520. —-8 Fine
Diamonds and Em-
erald in 18ct. Gold
and Platinum Set-
ting,
£l5
We Pay Postage on all Goods to any address*
WRITE FOR A COPY OF OUR BEAUTIFUL ILLUSTRATED
ART CATALOGUE.
Strand Corner, 412 George St., Sydney.
AUSTRALIA: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND: Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin.
LONDON : 73 to 81 Regent Street, W.; and 19 to 21 Hatton Garden, E.C.
73/G.
The Rent
Rexophone
is the highest point in talking
machine value. Its special
features place it in a position of
unequalled value for money.
Note these “Kent” particu-
lars :—Handsome solid dark
oak cabinet, with hinged lid,
giving easy access to motor
for oiling or adjustment;
Powerful Double-spring Swiss
Worm-Gear Motor, playing
about four records with ®ne
winding ; Large, , patent eye-
piece seamless Horn. with
Bell, beautifully colored
and shaded; Tapering Tone
Arm, with Swan-neck. All vis-
ible metal parts nickel-plated.
m
£6
“THE RENT” REXOPHONE
Sweetness and Purity of Reproduction.
The “KENT” is fitted with NUMBERED STEED INDICATOR, giving com-
plete control of reproduction. This beautiful machine has the Rexophone “Model
B” sound box, ensuring the sweetest and smoothest of results. There is an entire
absence of jarring or vibration.
There is no way you can spend £6 and obtain such a world of delightful enter-
tainment as is afforded by the “KENT.” The beautiful quality of the lifelike
reproduction absolutely “humanises” the rendition of the number.
Also,
“ The Bute,” 37/6; “ The Camp,” £3 ; “ The Dover,”
£4/10/-; “The York,” £8; “ The Syd,” 70|-
We stock Records of all the popular Singers, Instrumental Solos and
Duets, Band Selections, Sacred Vocal Selections, etc., and will furnish
Catalogues of Records on receipt of postcard.
Inquire for them from your Store-
keeper, or write to us for Catalogue.
STOREKEEPERS ARE INVITED
TO SEND FOR TRADE LISTS.
JacKson Macdonald,/
457 KENT ST. (Corner of Druitt St.), SYDNEY.


,
■y-'-kv
■
. -h
UHL S CATALOGUE
Uhl and Sons (The Premier Harness and
Saddlery House) have just revised their
Catalogue and Price Hist.
Every care has been taken to show by
illustration and description many of the
items we manufacture, such as Harness, Sad-
dlery, Bagware and Horse Rugs, etc., and
offered at prices that by buying elsewhere
means extravagance.
Fill in and post Coupon NOW; we’ll send
Post Free our Catalogue, which you’ll find
very useful.
Name
Address
L. UHL & SONS, Ltd
Petrie Bight, Brisbane.
For the Country Horseman
The saddle here illustrated is expressly designed
for country use, for stock riding, etc., and is built
of the beet materials throughout. If any of our
friends are requiring such a saddle they will find
this a genuine bargain.
It has a hog-skin seat, a plated bar-tree, extra
long flaps, with points to buckle below. An economi-
cal feature is the skirt, which extends all round
and thus adds years of wear to the saddle by pro-
tecting its interior from the weather. It has a
deep, “sweepy” seat, 4in. kneepads, nickel-plated
iron stirrups,' and double buckle leather gi,rth. The
price complete is £3/15/- Mention of The
Bulletin when ordering will ensure your , having a
leather surcingle given in free, and the saddle will
be forwarded freight paid. \ It is to be obtained
from J. P. Talty, 388 Sussex Street, Sydney.
for More /
S&kM l lU^jj
7U
/A
Bird’s
Custard
stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess.
Has stood the test of time
Over 70 years ’ success.
_N=S
“DEDCERT
Kills
Cockroaches
GEORGE GOUGH & SON LD., Agents, Albert St., Brisbane
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE.
f
ƒ
Made in England. Perfectly
harmless, indetectable,
and guaranteed free
from Nitrate of
Silver and Lead
Salts.
IN VARIOUS
SHADES Raven
Black, Black,
Broun, Light or
Golden Brown,
Blonde, Chestnut
and Auburn
r Price 3/6, posted 3/11
Directions with every
bottle.
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 The Block Arcade, Collins St., Melbourne
MR. MKAWBER ON FOUNTAIN PENS.
(Loquitur)
“On the one hand, we have leakiness, blottiness, scratchiness.
Result—Misery ! On the other, cleanliness, swiftness, lightness
Result—Happiness by using the Onoto.”
[The above was drawn by a famous artist after using the Onoto, the safety
fountain pen that fills itself in a flash. He paid 12/- for the pen, and charged
us six guineas for the sketch. Readers will be glad to know that the Onoto is
made in England by British labour.]
Booklet about it free from the makers, Thos De La Rue & Co., Ltd.,
168 Bunhill Row, London, E.C., or the Australasian representative, Norman
.Baker, 50 York Street, Sydney.
The Onoto can be obtained from all leading stationers and stores at 12/-
and upwards for larger sizes.
Use WELSBACH MANTLES
Ill's
wx*
It**.
»>•
l
m
-.v*
mmm i
for EVERY KIND OF LIGHT
Our Illustration shows a new type
of Soft or Collapsible Inverted
Mantle, which entirely overcomes
transit and initial installation
breakage. Write for particulars.
WELSBACH LIGHT CO. LTD. OF AUSTRALASIA
302 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
380 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne. Creek Street, Brisbane. 102-4 Victoria Street, Wellington, NZ.
MONEY CAN BE MADE
with an UP-TO-DATE
PICTURE SHOW.
v
Of course, the plant must
lie economical and
trustworthy.
These Qualifications
immediately bring to
mind
The Silent
Empire
Biograph.
This is the Bioscope for
all Enterprising
Showmen.
cm
is***
6
!f
%
m
M
m
It has all the good points
and none of the faults
of all other machines.
Fiickerless,
Fireproof,
Rock Steady,
Portable.
We are pleased to quote
for Complete Plants,
either Electric or Gas.
And we'can quote from
£45.
DROP US A LINE
IF YOU ARE
INTERESTED.
JERDANS,
Cinematograph Specialists,
393 George St. Sydney.
f
Is Your Moustache Thin & Poor?
Or do you find it impossible to grow one at all? In either case,
we would urge you to use
CA PILLARINE.
This is a moustachei grpwer, with a record of 30 Years’ success. It
will not fail NOW. Why not' order it to-dav?
PRICE 10/6 JAR, Post Free.
The C. & A. MOUSTACHS TRAINER, worn at night, shapes the moustache.
2/6, 3/6, 5/6, Post Free.
Craig &. AitKe
654 George Strest, Sydney.
Established 30 Years.
ƒ
It
Never
Shrinks.
f
ƒ
f
Underwear
is absolutely unshrinkable—
tlie makers will replace free of cost any garment
that shrinks. And Jason is all pure Australas-
ian woo! —the best possible wear for health’s
sake. By the special Jason process it is rendered
soft and silky —the best possible wear for
comfort.
Jason Underwear costs no more than the
harsh uncomfortable kind, so lake care
to buy Jason and only Jason.
Jason Underwear is made'in all styles
and prices for men, ladies and
children. If your dealer does
not stock it insist upon his
getting it for you.
It i cane of difficulty
•write —
Jason Hosiery,
Co.,
Leicester,
England.
Aa3s
<s>
I
M4J.Cw*Vt
Tailor-Made
Costumes
FOR WINTER.
Our Stock of
materials is
very compre-
hensive; and
our T weeds
and Costume
Cloths are in
exclusive de-
signs. We in-
vite a visit of
inspection.
Our Cutter is Mr.
F. J. Murphy.
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
Tailors & Costumers,
76 MARKET STREET
SYDNEY.
ƒ
f
ƒ
BUY DIRrCT
FROM FACTORY.
and we guarantee you a saving of at least
£lO. All goods sent freight free. 12years
warranty. A postcard will bring you our
Catalogue. Established 1875.
SANDON & STEEDMAN,
76 Finsbury Pavement, London, England.
Apply for Free Catalogue to Mr. F.
Williams, Post Office, Parramatta, N.S.W.
E SAVE YOU POUND
There’s Sauce for you!
Montserrat
Lime Juice Sauce suits
all tastes, and owing to its
purity, adds a zest to food,
without upsetting the most
delicate digestion. It helps
your food to feed you.
yisk your Slorekeep'r for H.
Guaranteed free from Preservatives.


HE
I
a
B
V.
Vi
Rifle and Pistol Cartridges
When you buy Winchester cartridges,
you get the result of over forty years ex-
perience in manufacturing ammunition
and the product of one of the most com-
plete plants in the world. In other words,
instead of taking a gambler’s chance with
ammunition manufactured by Tom, Dick
or Harry, you are getting a perfected pro-
duct that is sure to give results. And the
cost is about the same. Winchester cart-
ridges are made for all kinds and calibers
of rifles, revolvers and pistols and sold
everywhere. They will bring out the
(
full possibilities of your firearms.
ASK FOR THE RED W BRAND
DON’T THINK
for one moment that you cannot learn anything further about Steam
Engines. We can tell you some facts about
Marshall’s British Built Engines
which will be of immense benefit when you wish to buy. Made by British
workmen from the very best materials, consequently only one quality, viz.:
Loading Makers 60 Years Ago.
Ditto To-day.
Light and Heavy Pattern Road
Locomotives and Traction
Engines.
Portables, latest improved, 2 to
40 h.p. .
Vertical and Horizontal Station-
ary.
Colonial and Vertical Boilers, 80
and lOOlbs. working pres-
sure.
Cash or Liberal Terms.
“The World’s Best.”
Send for Catalogues.
COMFORTING WORDS.
OIL ENGINE BOYERS need only look for the name
“BIG CHIEF”
which represents the Highest-Grade Oil Engine produced in America.
w
Much money may be saved, and vexatious
troubles avoided* if you place youf order
with a reputable firm for an Oil En»
gine which is “Bight Up To Date.”
No troubles due to leaky tanks, as the “Big
Chief’ is hopper-cooled and self-con-
tained. Extended crank shaft is sup-
plied, enabling a pulley to be attached
either side.
A Wizard Magneto supplies the spark, and
no other batteries are required. Send
for Catalogue, telling you all about this
wonderful Engine. Uses Kerosene or
Benzine. Cash or Easy Terms.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO. Limited
161 Clarence Street, Sydney.
New Edison Records
are Now on Sale
at all Dealers.
Now, you phonograph lovers, here are some gems for you this month every
Record a good one, and every artist a star.
Marie Rappold contributes “Oh, Promise Me” in her very best style; while
Margaret Keyes, a new addition to Edison talent, is heard to advantage in t
Happy Day, O Day So Dear.” Kathleen Parlow, the genius of tne violin, is
responsible for a charming Nocturne; Will Oakland sings “With All Her vaults
I Love Her Still” ; the Edison Concert Band x plays “The Last Hope : Ada
Jones and Billy Murray combine in “Mysterious Moon,” an instantaneous hit
overseas, and sure to be liked here ; our old friend, Harry Lauder, contributes
two numbers, including the always-popular “I Love a Lassie and Alexander
Prince, the Concertina King, is heard in “Bonne Bouehe Polka.”
These are only a few of the good things in the May Edison Records ; a full list
is appended. Call and hear your choice of them at the nearest dealers. It you
do not know the address, write to us direct, and we will tell you of it, and also
send latest lists of Phonographs and Records.
Amberol Concert Records for May.
(FOUR-MINUTE.)
28029 Oh, Promise Me
28030 Dearest Name —“Rigoletto”
28032 O Happy Day, 0 Day So Dear
28033 Nocturne E "Flat (Violin Solo)
.Marie Rappold
.. . . Anna Case
Margaret Keyes
Kathleen Parlow
Amberol Records for May.
(FOUR-MINUTE.)
1118 Whistle It—“ The Wall Street Girl”
Ada Jones
1124 With All Her Faults I Love Her Still
Will Oakland
1125 Duet on Themes of “La Sonnambula”
(Flute and Clarinet)
Spindler and Giammatteo
1126 Somebody Loves Me
Elizabeth Spencer
1128 By The Old Cathedral Door
Cathedral Choir
1129 The Last Hope. .Edison Concert Band
1131 Under The Love Tree —“The Wall
Street Girl” Heidleberg Quintet
1132 Shamrock Belles
Billy Murray and Chorus
1133 Pastel—Minuet
The Tollefsen Instrumental Trio
1134 Mysterious Moon
Ada Jones and Billy Murray
1136 When the Old Folks Were Young
Folks Romain and Chorus
1141 Old Black Joe (Piano Solo)
Andre Benoist
1144 Waiting for the Robert E. Lee
Collins and Harlan
1145 La Marseillaise
New York Military Band
12487 The Land O’ The Leal
William Davidson
12489 It’s Nice When You Love a Wee
Lassie Harry Lauder
12495 The Wolf Peter Dawson
12501 I Love a Lassie Harry Lauder
12516 Where Does Daddy Go When He Goes
Out Billy Williams
Standard Records for May.
(TWO-MINUTE.)
10573 Pucker Up Your Lips, Miss Lindy Campbell and Gillette
14159 All the Houses are Going Round Billy Williams
14160 The Broken Heart Wm. McEwan
14162 Bonne Bouche Polka (Concertina Solo) Alexander Prince
THOMAS A. EDISON LTD.
(Wholesale only), Dept. 8., 364*372 Kent Street, Sydney.
AUTOMATIC
STARTS ITSELF! STOPS ITSELF!
f
jyj
ƒ
it
that is all
that is needed
to start or stop the patent
*»
AUTOMATIC' ELECTRIC LIGHTING pumping
INSTAmiIONi
SIMPLE. - EFFICIENT
NO COSTLY ACCUMULATORS
PRACTICALLY NO ATTENTION
FOUR
HIGHEST
AWARDS
io/e Makers.
R. A .Li STER*C9 UP
DURSLEY.GLOS.
f
ELECTRIC LIGHT PLANT
(Lister-Bruston System—Patented).
This plant generates electricity automatically, and does away with large and
expensive storage battery. Can be started from drawing-room or bedioom.
With the exception of keeping the plant clean, lubricating and tilling the
tanks, no attention is required.
Upon switching on the lights the plant works, and when the lights are turned
off the plant stops automatically.
The set is self-contained, and is delivered ready to work. No erection or
foundations necessary; all one has to do is to connect to the wires to the house,
shop, hall, hotel, or town lights, and fill up the tanks with oil. It is exceptionally
cheap as regards lighting costs, the user being able to enjoy all the many advantages
of electric light, at a rate per candle power cheaper than most systems of Petrol
"as acetylene, and other artificial lights, current always ready for lights,
fan’s, cooking, pumps, saws, separators, milking and chaftcutting, sewing and other
machines.
Is absolutely sdfe and reliable; no smell or fumes, dirt or smoke.
LET US SEND YOU FULLER DETAILS.
Made in Sizes from 20 to 5000 LIGHTS.
AGENTS-
New South Wales: W. G. WATSON 8 CO. LTD., 171 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Queensland: WINCHCOMBE, CARSON LTD., Creek Street, Brisbane.
Victoria: SUTHERLAND S ASHMAN, Flinders Street, Melbourne.


HORSESHOE
522 SALMON
When once you have tried Horseshoe
Salmon we need never advertise to YOU
again. The merits of Horseshoe will make
you a permanent user of this excellent fish.
For Entrees for Sandwich “ filling ’* for
Mayonnaise —or used direct from the can,
Horseshoe will be found unequalled.
Can be Served in Many Ways
SOUTH AUS. TRAVELLER’S OPINION.
Change of water and food often cause colic and
diarrhoea, and when Mr. F. Bannister, traveller for
Menz and Co., Adelaide (S.A.), is attacked with
either of these complaints he takes Chamberlain’s
Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy. In a recent letter he
states: “Having suffered severely from colic, I have
much pleasure in informing you that Chamberlain’s
Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy has on several occasions
given me instant relief? and I always carry it with
me.’’*
11
%
THE SHIRT.
The Shirt that slips on and off like a coat,
the tail joT \vhich forms a comfortable, pair of
underpants. Our right to sell these shirts
exclusively having expired, we are selling the
sizes mentioned below, at special reductions.
SIZES 15, 151, 16, 161 neckbands.
They were 5/6, 6/6, 7/11 and 8/6.
ALL ONE PRICE, 4/11, OR
3 SHIRTS FOR 14/6.
Post Free.
FINNEYS
THE BIG
BLOCK,
BRISBANE.
IN BANANA LAND
A 50-year-old Courier comments on the
great anxiety of the Irish of that day to
come to Australia. One ship, the Queen of
the Colonies, took on 100 emigrants at
Queenstown and subsequently discovered 26
illicit Hibernians stowed away among the
dunnage.
“Meona”: The Scripture moveth us in
sundry places. _At Warwick (Q.) recently
a claim for £5O damages was made for
wrongful conversion of a sheep. Said sheep
had been reared from a pet lamb, and was
exhibited in the local show and won a prike.
Some sheep in an adjoining pen were bought
by a butcher who included the pet sheep
under the impression, he alleged, that he had
bought it also. The pet was slaughtered. In
court the only law quoted was from Samuel
11., ch. 12, v. 1-6, which was solemnly read
aloud by plaintiff’s solicitor: —
And the Lord sent Nathan unto David. And ho
came unto him, and said unto him, “There were two
m.en in one city : the one rich and the other poor.
“The rich man had exceeding many flocks and
herds ;
“But the poor man had nothing, save on 4 little
ewe lamb, which he had bought and nourished up ;
and it grew up together with him, and with his chil-
dren ; it did eat of his own meat, and drank of his
own cup, and lav in his bosom, and was unto him
as a daughter.
“And there came a traveller unto the rich man,
and he spared to take of his own flock and of his
own herd, to dress for the wayfaring man that was
come unto h : m ; but took the poor man’s lamb and
dressed it for the man that was come to him.”
And David’s anger was .greatly kindled against the
man; and he said to Nathan, “As the Lord liveth,
the man that hath done this thing shall surely die.;
“ And he shall restore the lamb fourfold. be°' , ”se
he did this thing, and because he had no pity. ”
In this case, it cost the local butcher only
£5, which, in comparison with what Uriah’s
lamb cost the other butcher, was cheap.
Coo-Coo!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A.J.8.” writes to the press:—“l heard a noise
recently resembling' the cooing of a bronze-wing
pigeon in the night. On going out I found that two
large brown snakes, seven or eight yards apart,
were uttering this strange ‘coo’ to each other. I
despatched one and the other escaped. Next night
I heard only the one ‘coo.’ ” ~
I heard a sound
That stole around
And minded me of lovers true ;
“I hear" (said I)
“The note a-nigh
Of billing doves that kiss and coo."
The eaves below
They cluster so,
Those gentle doves and pigeons too ;
And each to each
In tender speech
Confesses this: “I love but you.”
But “A.J.8.”
(A doubter he)
Went out to watch that am’rous two ;
When stars were clear
He went to peer
At that sweet pair whose cry was “Coo.”
And when 1 cried.
As back he hied,
“And did you see those turtles sue?”
With loud guffaw
He said “Haw —haw —
Old man, the serpents come to coo.
“With bendings brown
They wander down
From yonder line of ranges blue.
And when they meet
They sing : ‘You sweet!’
And that is how you hear them coo.”
Straightway therewith
To Eden’s myth
My wingbd thoughts instanter flew,
And 1 could see
That Wondrous Tree
And one who twined and murmured “Coo,
“You gentle Eve
Why do you leave
The gifts untouched that are your due?
That fruit so rare
That dangles there
It hath a flavor known to few.
“Its savor fine
Is half divine
And she who plucks will never rue” —
And when in haste
She dared to taste
Away he glode and whispered “Coo !”
And ever since
When Love, the Prince,
His song of glamor sings anew,
Forget not this—
Beneath the Kiss
Perchance the Serpent’s calling “Coo !”
QUEENSLAND.
FURNESS BORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, April 26, 1913.
My Dear Tiiargomindah,—
Minister O’Sullivan and his wife gave the
High Court Judges and a few mere mortals
a trip on the aged dug-out Lucinda, to-day,
As usual, the way to the wharf was thick
with dust, and the ozone from the rubbish
carts cried out at the foot of the stars. Still,
the dust and the flavor were nothing com-
pared to some similar goods their Honors
have to breathe occasionally in their own
courts.
Bishop White, of Carpentaria, who intends
to sail for the South on Monday, gave an
At Home at Bishopsbourne to-day. All his
old pals turned up and sampled the pious tea
ana scones. If there was any pious whisky it
was kept a dead secret from me and a horde
of other pagans.
"Bob” Philp is going to part with daugh-
ter Blanche early next week, and a youth
named Henderson will in future be respon-
sible for the lady’s hat bills. On Thursday
Aunt Forsyth gave a hop or collective sara-
band in celebration of the transfer, and this
afternoon Mr. and Mrs. Philp took a per-
sonally-conducted party down the river, in
the same good cause.
The Perry-Cameron wedding on Tuesday
was an Event. The Anglican Cathedral was
almost covered with flowers, even the ex-
quisite sacredness of the pulpit being blotted
out. Other decorations were choir boys,
h.' mns, wedding bells, archways, and a white
satin cushion that worried a bald verger
nearly to death. The bride stage-managed a
wedding garment that Aunt Griffiths brought
from Paris, and which had more real lace
about it than most people see in a misspent
life-time. The three bridesmaids, Stella
Bruce-Nicol, Gladys Markwell and Beryl
Macdonald, wore pale blue dresses and halos
of silver tissue., like the angels in the Ger-
man prints which are sometimes priced at
seven for sixpence.
The large number of uninvited guests who
filled , the Cathedral leaned against the de-
corations, and conversed affably while the
clergyman read the service. Twice he
stopped, and gently suggested that the re-
marks would keep till later, but the audience
was cheerful under the reprimand, and went
the whole inhabitant of the sty to the finish.
Last week Miss Dorothea McConnel, elder
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Harry McConnel.
of Cressbrook, changed her name to Mayo,
without any of the usual fuss and frills.
Professor Michie, of the Queensland Univer-
sity, lent a friendly shoulder to the groom,
who is a lecturer or something appallingly
learned at the same place. There were no
bridesmaids; in fact, womenkind was rigidly
excluded from the tattlesome news until the
newly-fledged wife asked some of the species
to a friendly garden party, where congratu-
lations couid be deposited on the lawn.
THE NEVER-STILL TONGUE
BILLO: “iM a doctor—im? Blime! he come
here tars week, looked at me missus's
tongue, and recommended exercise! ”
Amongst those who attended were Governor
Macgregor’s wife and daughter.
Two weddings are menacing in the near
future. One is another Crombie man to
Mina Macdonald, and the other is that of
Miss Wardrop, of Charters Towers, to Tom
Cusack. The increased expenses that young
people so cheerfully face nowadays leads me
back to the old _ conundrum: “Oh, debt,
where is thy sting?”
Mrs. R. M. Collins, who is one of the most
graceful and well-liked of station hostesses,
gave a fancy-dress ball at Tamrookum on
Thursday night. As the meteorological re-
ports say. it was a small, high-pressure dis-
turbance operating over one centre without
any squalls.
__ Mrs. Frank Newton (who was Miss
Kathleen Verney, a sister of the Chelms-
ford A.D.C. who married Hard Cash in
N. S. Wales) christened a small daugh-
ter at the Cathedral last week. Mother and
daughter are staving with Miss Newton, at
Coorparoo.
The first-nighters filled the theatre last
Monday, to see “The Sunshine Girl.”
Blanche Browne, who has lots of friends
here, gleaned an armful of local flowering
vegetables, and Grace Palotta received a
large helping of glad hand. Grace, by the
way, is domiciled under the O’Shea roof at
Toowong.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
The coming man in the Q. Liberal party
is apparently Colonel Rankin, who repre-
sents the Burruin in the State Parliament.
Rankin is a colliery owner. Quite a see
tion of the Government crowd regards him
as cut out for the Premiership when Den-
ham retires —an event probably not very far
in the future.
“Kobbi”: One Magoffin, a councillor of
some bulk in Western Bananaland, has made
himself immortal by being the first defendant
in this State on a charge of “having started
an artesian bore without having first ob-
tained the consent of the Department.” He
was fined £1 and that beast Costs, and the
beast Cists was so ravenous that the hole in
Councillor Magoffin’s bank balance ran (if
a holevCan run) to £9O. The papers hasten
to speak of it as “this restrictive and annoy-
ing statute.” But, after all, the artesian
water supply isn’t unlimited, and some kind
of regulation is necessary.
“Kobbi”: Bananaland’s law bearing on
magisterial inquiries and the like, could well
do with a decent bit of patching. Suppose,
for instance, that Death calls a teamster
named Fitzclarence de Montmorency to a
fresh job in the next world by some untoward
means. Well, the magistrate, in his crown
and robes, proceeds to gather up sundry bags
of evidence. Witnesses are collected from
their jobs.and hurried (after a delay of a
month or so) before an official, who scratches
down in a big book all that Everywoman has
to say about it. The newspapers fill several
columns on the sub-
ject. which occa-
sional people read,
more especially Bill
Jim while he is eat-
ing his crib. The
official sends the
bulky missive to
headquarters, where
someone else possi-
bly reads through it.
This point is not
certain, but there is
no doubt that it is
poked into a little
ultimate box of its
own and allowed to
rest. There is no
finding, no verdict,
nothing only the
cove in the street.
He tells the fellow
up against the horse
trough what he
thinks about it. This
Act was passrfi in
Que e n sla nd ’way
back in 1866, and it
still sits and dreams
on the statute book,
a monument to a
progressive State. As
an example, there is
the case of the big
railway smash near
Toowoomba, wherein
five men lost their
lives. A magisterial
inquiry was held,
but there was no
finding. True, the
Commissioner held a
Departmental in-
quiry, and found
almost ever ything
except the wav to
pay off the Public
Debt. The Com-
missioner is not the
Mogul of Banana-
land. Yet he has the
nower to give a verdict on the evidence nut
before him, and to fine the guilty (according
to his view), while a full-blown magistrate
can’t. The Act shrieks loud for amend-
ment.
T-lome Secretary Apnel is the Denham
Government’s patron of the Brisbane Sta-
dium. Barnes, conciliates the Wowsers:
Appel the sports. The vinegar and the oil
—and a wise Ministry eaters for both.
“Rangan”: The inmates of Peel Island
lazarette still seem to come and go as they
please. The last one out returned a few
days ago after a six-weeks’ sojourn some-
where. It is unpleasant to think that one
may have been buying apples or potatoes
from a leper, or rubbing shoulders with him
in a crowd. They seem to recognise the
absurdity of the situation, too. “The last
three who returned solemnly stated that
they had been cruising about in an aero-
plane.
“Kobbi” : Dr. Ilav. whn •
to throw in the holy towel is nIT , d , ecidul
oldest officiating clergyman’in t, tlle
wealth. He came abroad at the L&T
kmdly medico who advised him in !"* f a
seas and die. And the old a ► to , So over '
making a kindly liar of that^ 01 " been
since, till now he is so near % ih V ver
could hardly squeeze a one
tween. He took hold of the Rr blt 1)( "
(Q.) stipend awav back in i CG> khara Pton
earned it since without a break'V nd ha «
the old Seotchbyterian baptfses L? ada^
sional infant whose grandmother 8 Q ?? occa-
father he joined in wedlock. and gran d-
THE MODERN MARTYO
MR. NOB: "But don't you Gel warW in those
urs this weather?"
MRS HLOB: “H ain't a question of 'ow I
feels — it's 'ow I looks.”
In two years John Connolly, of Gay ; a h
will have completed his century, and Mrs
John Connolly will not be far'behind him!
John has not yet wholly acquired the tired
feeling attributed to Queenslanders by
southern ignoramuses, but takes his seat on
the Bench as a J.P., chops and splits his
own firewood, and pours forth his reminis-
cences of the early days with wonderful
fluency- and accuracy. The Northern cli-
mate, however, is commencing to worry him
a bit, and the chances are that, when he
has completed his century, the old warrior
may confess to a certain feeling of languor
and lassitude. Centenarians are apt to wilt
under sub-tropical influences.
Says the Warwick Argus, re the running
ota third (Independent) candidate for Fas-
sitern: “With Mr. Jenkinson’s determina-
tion to stand there can be no particular dis-
agreement. but there is room for a whole ship-
load of disagreements with a Government
which permits a state of things under which
any political jackanapes can come along and
dislocate an election.” Which means, in
plain English, that no individual outside the
recognised sacred bounds of Liberalism or
Labonsm has any right to offer himself to
the people as a candidate. The Argus ought
to know' that all great movements have com-
menced and succeeded just through this very
kind of “dislocation.”
Sow that' the King of Greece has passed
away, and King Alfonso of Spain has just
escaped the King of Terrors, it is only fitting
that mention should be made of the demise
of Tommy Green, last king of the Warrego
blacks, wffio closed up his 65 years’ accounts
a few days ago, to the regret of all Charle-
ville, in which town he was the most popu-
lar of local identities. Tommy used to tell
stories of fearful droughts in the early days,
when blackfellows died like flies. Banana-
landers need reminding that the days of
drought are not over.


►
■ k
4, Hi
: )
~T~il
0
< /V (M
r •• ■
■ ! ; . "/
■
fvi>:}'. **M
ƒ
f
WATSONS
ww
v<
fine
ery
&7MJ
"AGE WITH HONOUR.”
n
wars otno
mO


Shipping.
P, and O. BRANCH SERVICE.
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Via MELBOURNE and ADELAIDE.
Wireless installed.
PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION AMIDSHIPS.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
LONDON £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £1? 15s. & £l7 17s.
Tickets for return, via Suez (second-class), P. and
O. Mail, from £49 19s. to £53 11s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne: John Sanderson & Co„ 111 William St.
Adelaide and Fremantle Agents: Geo. Wills & Co.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
ORAM A ..Triple-Screw
ORVIETO ..Twin-Screw
OSTERLEY
OTRANTO..
OTWAY ..
ORSOVA ..
ORONTES ..
OMRAH ..
OPHIR
13,000 Regd. Tons.
12,130 „
12,129 „
12,124 „
12,077 ~
12,036 ~
9,023 „
8,282 „
6,814 „
New and luxuri-
Staterooms, with
Private Bathrooms,
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy,
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe;
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Pi,ace. Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
NEW SOOTH WALES.
Head Office: 11 Moore Street, Sydney.
(Guaranteed by the State Government).
Has Now No Connection
with the Post Offices.
The Bank has 116 Branches and
500 Agencies throughout the State.
DEPOSITS received from 1/- to £5OO.
INTEREST — from £1 to £3OO,
and 3% on the excess up to £5OO.
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
T 4 e j)ank of flerth Queensland
LI Ml TED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. It. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK, LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
THE
Australian Bank nf Commerce
™ LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED.. . £1,198,534
PAID-UP (31st December, 1912).. £1,195,274
RESERVE FUND £15,000
HEAD OFFICE— George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS —Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man ; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.; Chas. 11.
Myles, Esq.; Mark Sheldon, Esq.; Arthur S.
Barton, Esq; Frank N. Yaiuvood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO.OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413.590 14 6
Reserve • • • • • • • • 130,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091.669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
AU new business since 189 S specially protected.
Directors— Jas. Munro, Esq. (Chairman) ; John
Cameron. Esq.; F. Lord, Esq. ; Geo. Edw. Bunning,
Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.
General Manager—lV. V. RALSTON.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON FIXED DEPOSITS.—
12 months, at the rate of 4 per cent, per annum; 2
years and over, at the rate of 4} per cent, per annum.
HEAD OFFICE - - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland,
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
New Zealand Insurance C°u d .
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
LIVE STOCK and GENERAL.
WEALTHIEST COLONIAL COMPANY.
INSURANCES EFFECTED at LOWEST Current Rates.
FIBE and MARINE BRANCH : 77 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
ACCIDENT BRANCH : 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
J. A. Minnbtt & A. E. D’Arcy, J int Managers.
CARBIDE.
For First-Class
Results use
Best
Pf“‘PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchrnts distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST DLUMENTHAL, LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
Shipping;'
N.D.L.
NORDDEUTSCHER-LLOYD
MAIL STEAMERS
To Colombo, Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and
Bremen.
All steamers fitted with “Wireless” Installation.
All steamers fitted with Laundry.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE from Sydney
and Brisbane, via German New Guinea, Yap,
Angaur or Maron. Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to —
LOHMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney ;
OSTERMEYER, VAN ROMPAEY & Co., Melbourne;
H. MUECIvE & CO., Adelaide;
L. RATAZZI Si CO., Perth and Fremantle;
THOS. BROWN & SONS. Ltd.. Brisbane & Townsville.
Bank of |)eui Z ea ' an( l*
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£1,000,000
Preference Shares .. .... 500,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
up .. .. •• •• 500,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,240,587
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Außtralia, New Zea
land, Fiji. Great Bri
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
ƒ
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
RUNIC, about MAY 7.
MEDIC, about JUNE 20.
AFRIC, about JULY 9.
SUEVIC, about JULY 30.
Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
Only One Cl»s* of Accommodation*
Fares —Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0t0£24 3 0
Londor 19 0 oto 30 0 0
Melbourne .. • • 110 0
New York, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, etc., from 2o 0 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Asents in Australia.
Australian Steamships Line
Howard Smith Co. Ltd., Managing Agents.
Fast Passenger Steamers
T.S.S. CANBERRA (8000 tons).
* S.S. COOMA,
*S.S. BOMB ALA*
•Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Leave Ports as follows:. —
MELBOURNE every Wednesday.
SYDNEY every Saturday.
BRISBANE every Tuesday and Wednesday.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma) every Wednesday
and Monday.
MACK AY every Thursday and Sunday.
TOWNSVILLE every Saturday.
New T.S.S. INDARRA (wireless telegraphy), 10,000
tons, carrying first-, second- and third-class
passengers, for MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE,
and FREMANTLE, transhipping for all SIA. and
W.A. Ports.
From SYDNEY, MAY 24.
From MELBOURNE, MAY 28.
From ADELAIDE, MAY 31.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
f
APPLY
PROMPTLY.
ACCOMMODATION
LIMITED.
BURNS-PHILP TOURS.
(PERSONALLY CONDUCTED.)
FIVE WEEKS of PLEASURE & PROFIT,
PERFECT PEACE
and RECUPERATION.
£2O.
ak ideal holiday.
S.S.“MINDINI”
leaves SYDNEY, 3rd May,
BRISBANE, sth May,
CALLING at TULAGI, aiZO, FAISI, etc.
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD. SYDNEY.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability -
£3,000,000
£2,150,000
£3,000,000
£8,150,000
DIRECTORS: _
The Hon Sir Charles K. MacKellar, Kt„ M.L.C., I MacLaurin, Kt. M.L.C.
The Hon! Regnald James Black, M.L.C. j w'l M.L.C.
Office — JZflf T h read need I e St., E.C.
W®* ?n fll the Australia* States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua. Agents and Corres-
r ssssSo^A
and collected. Letters of Credit and circular rvoies » RUgSELL FRENCHt General Manager.
WORLD.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital
..£1,749,978 2 6
.. 1,580,000 0 0
.. 1,750,000 0 0
£5,079,978 2 6
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen, Esq .. • • Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Rater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon H Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: W. L. Docker, Esq., and E. S. Cape, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. H. ».
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Canital Paid-up .. •• •• •• £538,307
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 159 054
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock).- 76,500
£773.861
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Gen Man . Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. 11. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The Colonial Mutual Qife
1 assurance society limited
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Ai nuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,358,229.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £5,600,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable. Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Ciiiep Office for N'ew South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.
The Hon. Bruce Smith. K.C.,
A. BOSS MILLER.
G., M.L.C., Chairman.
M.P.
Resident Secretary.
THE Australian Magazine—THE
HAND. The National Monthly.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE.
*The largest and finest steamer trading between
Sydney and San Francisco.
Around World and Around Pacific Tours.
Steamers stop 24 Hours at Papeete—the
“ Pearl of the Pacific.”
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“ Zealandia,”
“Ulimaroa,”
"Riverina,”
“Westralia,”
“Wimmera,”
“Victoria."
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH k ALL NEW ZEALAND POIITS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO
(LIMITED). '
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian
Victorian and Queensland Ports. ’
FOR MELBOURNE A
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
Anri GULF PORTS
ALBANY i
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle I
to all North Western Porto. J
T.S.S. Warilda, May in
and June 7.
T.S.S. Wandil’.a, Mav 9s
and June 2a.
Kitted Wireless Telegraphy
Each Steamer 8000 tons
Carrying Three Classes.
1,2, 3 and 4-Berth Cabins
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Porto North to O&irn*.
S.S. Grantala (Fitted Wire-
less Telegraphy), May 3.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can hi
ascertained on application at the Company's Office *
G, 8. YUIL.L Sc CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
Via FIJI AND HONOLULU.
CANADIAN - AUSTRALASIAN R M
LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway,
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
AROUND THE WORLD TOURS.
FIRST AND SECOND CLASS.
SAILINGS :
♦New triple-screw steamer, fitted with cabms-de-
luxe en suite, Nursery, Laundry, Electric Lifts, etc.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Federal & Shire Lines
Steam to London and Liverpool
(Fia Suez Canal).
T. S. S. SHROPSHIRE.
12,600 Tons. W. L. PRENTICE, Commander.
Will be despatched from—
BRISBANE, MAY 17.
SYDNEY, MAY 25.
MELBOURNE, MAY 28.
ADELAIDE, MAY 31.
The Saloon accommodation consists of all two-
berth cabins on the Upper deck, situated amidships.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious
decks. Third-class passengers supplied with fresh
provisions from cool chambers throughout the voyage.
Electric light throughout. , . „
J Return and Round Trip Tickets issued via Cape
and (or) Suez Route. Prepaid passages arranged.
Saloon. Thircl-dass. .
Fares to London £4O to £45. £l6/16/- to £lB/18,-
Steerage Fares from Brisbane, One Guinea Extra.
FITTED WITH WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY.
For further information, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., LTD., Sydney and Brisbane
McILWRAITH. McEACHARN & CO. PTY., Ltd.,
Melbourne and Newcastle.
ELDER SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
H. JONES & CO., LTD., Hobart. J
A Whole Week Saved
SYDNEY to SAN FRANCISCO by the
Oceanic Steamship Company
10,000 tons, Twin Screw Steamers. 17 knots,
Classed 100 A 1 at British Lloyds.
CABINS DE LUXE with BATHS.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY—
SONOMA.
VENTURA
May 3
May 31
June iJB
July 26
Aug. 23
Sept. 20
Oet. 18
Nov. 15
The through trip to England can accomphsM
in 29 Days via Samoa, Honolulu, San
return tickets good by p.& o orient LINE,
N.D.L., N.Z .S. Co. and S. S. & A Co.
Tel. 2282 City. Apply— 44 PITT STRE ,
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and FljL
.10,000 tons
7000 tons
7000 tons
6500 tons
6500 tons
4500 tons
*T.S.S. “ INDARRA ”
*T.S.S. “ KANOWNA”.
*T.S.S. “ KYARRA”
*T.S.S. “ LEVUKA”
T.S.S. “ WYREEIYIA” .
S.S. “ WYANDRA”
•Fitted with Wireless Teiegrapby-
Winter Tours to Cairns and J&S? 6 and beautifu 1
mended for the salubrious climate ana
scenery, and Tourists wi tad arrangement*
Coy.’s steamers possess all up-to dat
for convenience and comfort, a ®, a jj First and
easy and pleasant. After first: port o:i all
Second Saloon Tickets ar ® Union S.S. Co)'. ®
Interstate Companies, also with the Gn appl ca
steamers in the Fiji T .™ d ®’ p e ar S Papers. Ask
tion. For dates of sailing see Daily
-lifarig
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREKI,
s@y
Fits “Wonder” has (
Wa “Bromide of Potash^
Safe, Certain Cure
6 Bottles posted 1 //*
Write for particulats-
X H. MERSON.
229 Collins St., Melbourne.
VICTORIA.


THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
Ihe Company s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: — °
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S HAR-
BOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads—steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £ 6 Bs. 6d. ; second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
A MONTHLY GUIDE for everything Aus-
. tralian. That’s The Lone Hand. “A
marvellous sixpenn’or th ! ”
Pier Hotel Glenelg Limited,
South Australia.
New High-Class Residential Hotel
(The Finest in the State.)
BEAUTIFUL SEA FRONTAGE.
SPACIOUS PROMENADE BALCONIES.
LUXURIOUS WINTER GARDEN, LOUNGES,
DRAWING ROOMS, SMOKING ROOMS.
ELEVATORS WORKING DAY AND NIGHT.
CUISINE UNSURPASSED. TARIFF MODERATE.
Correspondence promptly attended to.
G. F. FOX,
Tel., Glenelg 16. Manager.
unclaimed money&property.
DOUCr AL’S RKHISTkR to N PXT-OF-KIN,
CHANCERY HEIRS, LEGATEES, Ac.. &c„ price
3/-,480 pages. Robertson’s,booksellers,Melbourne,
Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, or Dougal A Co.
Claims investigated and carried through
QOUCAL * C0.,151 STRAND, LONDON, ENCLAND-
<Kstn.Minhe.fi over HO Yearn.)
Louis KaULFMANN CIGARS
—<*r
<***•“'
per 100
Imperials - 45/-
Idyllos - - 37/6
Diademas - 22/6
Gran Bouquets 20/6
Infantas - 17/6
Levucas - 15/6
Remit amount with
order and I will deliver
Cigars, all charges
paid, to any part of
Australia. Money Re-
turned in Full if
Buyer not satisfied
after smoking five or
six Cigars.
Illustrated descriptive booklet mailed to any address on appll*
cation. Only address
34 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE
The Royal Bank of Australia
Limited.
• :
HEAD OFFICE: MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
•
FIFTIETH REPORT.
Presented to the Shareholders at the Ordinary General Meeting on 30th April, 1913.
The Directors have pleasure in submitting to Shareholders the annexed Balance-Sheet and Statement
of Accounts, for the Half-year ending 31st March, duly audited and certified.
The net profits (including £4407/9/3 brought from last Half-year) amount to
which it is proposed to deal with as follows, viz:—-
To pay a dividend at the rate of 8 per cent, per annum.
transfer to the Reserve Fund (making it £190,000) .
and to carry forward the balance ..
By order of the Board,
H. T. WILSON, General Manager.
BALANCE-SHEET OF THE ROYAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED,
Dr.
For the Half-Year Ending 31st March, 1913.
Cr.
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
To Capital Authorised —
600,000 shares of
£4 each ..£2,400,000 0 0
To balances due to other banks..
£507,459 2 9
1,256 0 0
65,790 18 8
476,090 14 5
1,687,458 8 1
487 10 10
£2,738,542 14 9
To contingent liabilities as per
contra .. •• • • •• 544,937 12 4
£3,283,480 7 1
ASSETS.
By coin, bullion,
Australian notes
and cash at
bankers .. £522,710 3 8
By Real Estate, consisting of —
Bank premises
By other real estate
By bills discounted and other ad-
vances exclusive of provision for
bad and doubtful debts
By bank furniture, fittings, sta-
tionery, etc.
£991,358 17 6
55,000 0 0
Nil
1,690,188 17 3
1,995 0 0
£2,738,542 14 9
By liabilities and securities of cus-
tomers and others in respect of
contingent liabilities as per contra 544,937 12 4
£3,283,480 7 1
Profit and Loss Account,
To salaries, rent, income, and land
taxes, and other charges .. £12,692
Balance .. .. •• •• 27,469
2 10
2 9
£40,151 5 7
By balance at 30th September, 1912 £26,407 9 3
Less dividend declared 30tli Oc-
tober, 1912 .. £12,000 0 0
Transfer to Reserve
Fund . . .. 10,000 0 0
By balance carried down ..
By profits for the Half-year, after
deducting interest accrued on de-
posits and rebate on bills current,
less reserves for bad and doubtful
debts
22,000 0 0
£4,407 9 3
35,743 16 4
£40,151 5 7
Reserve Fund Account.
To balance
t
.. £lBO,OOO 0 0
£lBO,OOO 0 0
ƒ
A GREAT HUSICAL INNOVATION.
aSSSEEIS!
PARTS
f
hand fk{ 0
Rteos
ALBERT’S SYSTEM
Two more (new) “Boomerang”
Mouth Organ Types, the “ Boom-
erang Grand ” (48 Reeds), Price
6/6 (New); the “Miniature
Grand ” (24 Reeds), Price 3/6 (New)
—Post Free to any address.
These two new types possess already the great superiority of the “Boomerang Mouth Organ
tonality, but being tuned to the grand concert pitch, and provided with extra reeds, they at
once raise their bewitching harmony above the best reed-combination The sweetness and body
of resonance emanating from the “BOOMERANG GRAND” can only be equalled by the tuneful
combination of the Hafp and Flute. Try one, and the “BOOMERANG GRAND” will become your
inseparable companion. Try the G/6 one for preference.
Wholesale and Retail from J. ALBERT & SON, 137 King Street, Sydney.
(Remit by Australian or N.Z. Postage Stamps.)
Common wealth
Bank of Hustralta
Branches are open for the transaction of General Banking Business throughout Australis
as under :
New South Wales— Sydney and Canberra Victoria—Melbourne. Queensland— Brisbane and
Townsville. South Australia Adelaide Western Australia-Perth Tasmania— Hobart.
And at Egypt House, 3R-38 New Broad Street, London
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign Bills negotiated and
collected Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued to any part of the world. Bills negotiated or
forwarded for collection Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the
Commonwealth, United Kingdom and foreign countries,
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT
Agencies arc open in practi ally all Post OfKces which issue Money Orders in the Australian
Commonwealth and Papua..
Withdrawals on demand may be effected tor sums up to £lO at any Office within the Commonwealth
1/-
Minimum
Deposit
3%
Rate of Interest on
all Deposits uo to
£3OO
IQiii Jahuakt, 1913
DENISON MILEEIi, Governor
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting; Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queensland
offers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the prospective
settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office : 118 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
The Bank of Adelaide.
FORTY-SEVENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS TO THE
SHAREHOLDERS.
The Directors have pleasure in submitting herewith, for the information of Share-
holders, the Balance-Sheet of the Bank, as on 31st March, 1913; also Statements of
Profit and Loss Account, and the Reserve Fund on that date.
The balance to credit of Profit and Loss is .. . . .. £78,221 17 10
Which it is proposed to appropriate as follows: —
To Reserve Fund (making it £490,000) .. .. £30,000
To Dividend at the rate of 10 per cent, per annum .. 25,000
55,000 0 0
Leaving a balance of . . .. .. .. .. .. £23,221 17 10
to be carried forward.
An Interim Dividend at the rate of 10 per cent, per annum was paid in November
last.
Since last report Receiving Agencies have been opened at Callington and Eastern
Well, and the Agency at Lochiel has been closed.
An opportunity having occurred to extend our London premises, a 99 years’ lease has
been arranged, and the office rebuilt.
At the Head Office extensive alterations have also been made, and in both cases the
additional accommodation secured has been rendered necessary by the growth of the
business. The increased facilities are greatly appreciated by the customers of the Bank
and the Staff. The sum of £6BOO has been provided out of the year’s profits towards
cost of the improvements in Adelaide.
It is with much regret we refer to the death, on 21st April, 1912, of our late
Accountant, Mr. R. T. J. Mahnke. He has been succeeded by Mr. C. F. Wreford.
The General Annual Meeting will be held in the Board Room, at the Head Office of
the Bank, King William Street, Adelaide, on Wednesday. 7th May, 1913, at 12 noon, at
which the Shareholders will be called upon to elect two Directors, in place of Hugo Carl
Emil Muecke, Esq., J.P., and George Brookman, Esq., J.P., who retire by rotation, but,
being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
The Shareholders will also have to elect Two Auditors for the ensuing year, in place
of Messrs. W. L. Ware and J. S. Lloyd, the latter of whom has intimated that he will
not seek re-election. The remuneration of the retiring Auditors will have to be voted.
By order of the Board of Directors.
JOHN SHIELS, Manager.
Dr.
BALANCE-SHEET ON MARCH 31, 1913.
Or.
LIABILITIES.
To Capital paid-
up .. £500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 460,000 0 0
Profit and Loss 78,221 17 10
Notes in Circulation
Bills in Circulation
Balances due to other Banks ..
Deposits
Interest accrued on Fixed De-
posits and Rebate on Bills
discounted
£1,038,221 17 10
16,801 0 0
275.358 8 5
12,658 7 5
4,101,962 9 8
40,699 3 8
£5,485,701 7 0
ASSETS.
By Specie, Bullion
and Cash Bal-
ances. . .. £588,470 9 7
Australian Notes 191,048 0 0
Government De-
bentures .. 476,131 15 0
Municipal Deben-
tures.. .. 4,235 0 0
Money at short
call .. .. 838,000 0 0
Balances due
from other
Banks.. .. 147,234 11 5
Notes of other
Banks.. .. 140 0 0
Remittances in
Transitu .. 148,245 2 2
£2,393,504 18 4
Bank Premises and Furniture.. 105,626 11 7
Bills Receivable and all other
Advances .. .. .. 2,986,569 17 1
£5,485,701 7 0
Profit and Loss Account from March 25, 1912, to March 31,
1913.
To Reserve
below .
Dividend
1912
Dividend
vember,
Balance
Fund, as
. . £30,000 0
in May,
.. 25,000 0
in No-
-1912 . . 25,000 0
0
0
0
£BO,OOO
78,221
0 | 0
17 10
£158,221 17 10
By Balance, March 25, 1912 .. £77,083 18 11
Net Profit, includ-
ing Recoveries,
and after making
provision for Bad
and. Doubtful _
Debts, Interest
accrued on Fixed
Deposits and Re-
bate on Bills
Discounted and
Expenses at Head
Office and 50
Branches, includ-
ing Salaries,
Rents, etc. .. £86,388 8 4
Less Land and In-
come Taxes, £4760
Bs. ; Note Taxes,
£490 Is. sd. .. 5,250 9 5
81,137 18 11
£158,221 17 10
Reserve Fund,
ƒ
f
JOHN SHIELS, Manager.
0. F. WREFORD, Accountant.
JAMES HARVEY,
H. C. E. MUECKE,
ARTHUR WATERHOUSE,
GEORGE BROOKMAN,
Directors.
We hereby certify that we have compared the above Balance-Sheet with the Books and Accounts of
The Bank of Adelaide.for the Year ending March 31, 1913, that we have counted the Cash and examined
the Bills on hand at the Head Office (the Assets and Liabilities at the Branches other than London being
taken on the certificates of the Managers and Accountants of the respective Branches, and those of the
London Branch as cabled by the London Manager), and that it is a correct abstract of the same.
Adelaide, April 18, 1913.
W. L. WARE, F.1.A.5.A., \
J. S. LLOYD, F.1.A.5.A., J
Auditors.
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball
Bearing Roller Skates.
Ugert exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America,
and by all the'Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for °A years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells'how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Riohardeon Ball-Bearing Skate Co., 311 Mlohigan Btreet,Chicago, U.S.A.
“RICHARDSON”
ƒ
CHICAGO


The late Earl Belmore, who was Governor
of N. S. Wales (1868-72) was the first bound-
less potentate for whom a country residence
was provided. That was at Throsby Park,
Moss Yale, where the economic earl grew
cabbages enough to pay off the encumbrances
on his Irish property. He was the only
viceroy who lived there, other Governors
were provided for at Hill Top, Sutton For-
rest. The fact that royalty’s agent hung
out thereabouts brought a crowd of snobs to
the neighborhood. Most of them lost their
properties one way or the other. There has
been a dreadful commercial mortality among
snobs in recent years.
VICTORIA RACING CLUB.
Pocket Edition of the
NEW RULES OF RACING.
JUST PUBLISHED.
Printed in two colors, bound, in limp roan, gilt
edges; 4in. by 2iin. Price, 1 /(‘'. including Postage,
H. BYRON MOORE.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austra-
lasian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the offices, 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information, without
charge.
Legal Notices.
HEIRS WANTED.
AN ACTION of Multiplepmnding aud
Exoneration has been raised in the
Court of Session in Scotland (Lord Dewar,
Ordinary, Mr. Brown, Clerk) at the in-
stance of Archibald Bain Birkmyre Scott,
Chartered Accountant, 116 Hope Street,
Glasgow, as Judicial Factor on the estate
of the deceased JOHN McINTYRE, Rose
Cottage, Blairlogie, Pursuer and Real Raiser,
against DUNCAN McINTYRE. Solici-
tor, Inverell, Sydney, and others Defenders.
The fund in medio in said action consists
of the estate and effects left by the said
John Mclntyre who died at Blairlogie, Scot-
land, on September 4, 1912, aged about 78
vears. So far as known to the pursuer, the
said John Mclntyre died intestate, un-
married and without brothers or sisters sur-
viving him. In said action Lord Dewar,
Ordinary, has pronounced the following
Interlocutor: —
“March 20, 1913. Lord Dewar. Act.
Maconochie. The Lord Ordinary finds the
Pursuer and Real Raiser liable only in
once and single payment of the fund in
medio, and Appoints all parties having in-
terest therein to lodge their Condescend-
ences and Claims by the 20th day of June,
1913 ; Further Appoints intimation of the
dependence of this action and of this
Interlocutor to be made twice at an in-
terval of a fortnight, in each of the follow-
ing newspapers, viz.:— The Times, The
Scotsman, The Glasgow Herald, The
Inverness Courier, The Stirling Ob-
server, The News of the World,
the Melbourne Argus, and the Sydney
Bulletin, for the information of all
parties having interest in the fund in
medio.
“ARTHUR DEWAR.”
Of all which notice is hereby given.
NORMAN M. MACPHERSON. S.S.C..
2a Hill Street, Edinburgh.
Hill & Whyte, Solicitors, Stirling.
Agents for the Pursuer and Real
Raiser.
March 20, 1913.
Business Notices.
iTumTTTTTTi!*- - in.iuuimmniiiuiuTuilljH
“'a""'
y;w
I
(r*it
r ; V/i.v
Registered
NOTE THE SLOT
The Best Tooth Powder
in The Best Container
Jewsbury& Brown's
gf Oriental
flboth Powder
6-&1/ 4
in the
United Kingdom
All the Family may
use the same box.
WHOLESALE AGENTS in SYDNEY
Messrs. Elliott Bros. Ltd.
. . F.H Faulding & Co.
PILE PILLS.
PERMANENT CURE.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS.
Non-aperient. A sure and speedy cure for all cases
of Internal and External Piles.
Have Cured Thousands of Cases, some after suffering
over 40 years.
Made and sold by ANDREW MURPHY, WOY
WOY (N.S.W.), Sole Proprietor.
PRICE 3/- Per Box, Post Free.
On Sale at All Druggists and Chemists throughout
the States. *
Amusements.
H
KB MAJESTY'S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction .1. C. WILLIAMSON, I/ro.
THE THEATRE COOL AND BEAUTIFUL.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.40.
PUSS IN BOOTS.
FUN FROM START TO FINISH.
PLANS AT PALING’S
PRICES : D.C and O.S. (Reserved and at Door), 6/-;
Stalls, 4/- ; Amphitlieane till 7.30, 2/- ; thereafter, 1/-
T H E A TKE It O YAL, S Y D N E Y.
* Lessee: J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
OSCAR A>CHE and LILY BRAYTON, with their
BRILLIANT LONDON CO., in Shakspeare’s Tragedy,
ANTONY & CLEOPATRA.
OSCAR ASCHE as MARK ANTONY.
LILY BRAYTON as CLEOPATRA,
Prices : D.C. & O.S. (Reserved), 7/6 ;at Doors, 6/-; Stalls,
4/- ; Gallery to 7.30,2/- ; thereafter, ]/- Plans at Paling’s.
Adel phi tii eat re, Sydney.
imecrion and Management.. Gloom,-Ft Maim.ow. Ltd.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF THE WOMAN PAYS.
SATURDAY EVENING NEXT,
America’s Most Successful and Sensational Melodrama,
entitled,
THE COWBOY AND THE SQUAW 7 .
A Realistic Story of the Doings of America’s Famous
Cowboys and Her Indian People.
POPULAR PRICES: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & 1/-
p A LACE THEAT It E. SYDN E Y.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE BERT BAILEY FAVORITE DRAMATIC COM-
BINATION presents Australia’s Biggest Boom, the
Record-breaking Characteristic Australian Comedy,
STEELE RUDD’S
ON OUR SELECTION.
Box Plan at Paling’s. POPULAR PRICES : 4/-, 2/6, 1/-
Early Doors to Stalls, 6d. extra ; to Gallery, 1/- extra.
LTttle theatre, CASTLEREAGH ST.,
SYDNEY
(With the BIG Attractions).
LAST THREE NIGHTS AND FAREWELL MATINEE.
EVERY EVENING, AT 8.10,
HUGH C. BUCKLER & VIOLET PAGET present
THE MAN ON THE BOX.
MONDAY, MAY 5.
First Production in Australasia of
FANNY’S FIRST PLAY.
BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
ATIONAL AMPHITHEATRE. SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
BRENNAN-FULLER’S VAUDEVILLE CO.
HARRY—THE QUEALYS—NELLIE, Sketch Artists.
THE FONTENOYS, Harmonising Duettists.
FRITZ VON LISTON, Imitator and Siffleur.
MONTY WALKER, Pommy Comedian.
MARVELLE’S COMIC COCKATOOS.
SHARRATT & LANG. THORNTON.
MYSTERIOUS MIK, the Canine Mental Telepathist.
PRICES: 31-, 2/-, 1/6, 1/- Plan at Theatre.
gPd NCER'S LYCEUM, SYDNEY.'
COMMENCING SATURDAY, MAY 10.
QUO VADIS?
THE WORLD’S GREATEST ACHIEVEMENT IN
SILENT PORTRAYAL.
8000 ft.—A FULL EVENING’S ENTERTAINMENT.
LACIAKICM AND OLYMPIA. SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEE—SATURDAY.
DE GROENS VICE REGAL ORCHESTRAS.
3d. to 2s. Plan at Nicholson’s (No Extra Fee).
ALHAMBRA THEATRE (Haymarket),
SYDNEY.
Direction JOS. L. GOODMAN.
THE HAYMARKET VAUDEVILLE
HOUSE.
Opening on SATURDAY with a Great
VAUDEVILLE CAST. SONGS, BALLADS & HARMONY.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
PRICES :
Week Nights, 1/6. 1/- & 6d. ; Saturdays, 2/-, 1/6, 1/-
MPERIAL ROLLER
Foot of William Street.
RINK,
A REFINED RINKING RENDEZVOUS
for
FASTIDIOUS PEOPLE.
NOW OPEN.
THREE SESSIONS PER DAY.
JAMES C. BENDRODT,
General Manager.
Business Notices.
f
I do use WRIGHT’S
Antiseptic Myrrh
TOOTH SOAP
So have Beautiful Teeth
and a Sweet Breath. Pre-
serves the enamel. Heals the
gums. Removes tartar. It’s
entirely free from acids, and
all smart dentists rrcommend
its constant use. Your address
on a penny pos card, sent to
us. will bring you a trial sample free. Large box sent,
post paid, for One Shilling in stamps. Look out!
There are imitations. Sold by Chemists everywhere.
CHAS. WRIGHT CHEMICAL CO.
Detroit, Mich , U.S.A.
THE WONDER AIFrPLANTI
ƒ
Absorbs moisture from the air, needs no soil, no
water, no care. Lovely feathery fronds keep
beautifully fresh and green. Only 1/3 each,
Two for 2/-, securely packed in basket ready
to hang up ; we pay carriage. Suspended any-
where out of the direct sunlight it preserves its
charmingly fresh and green for
years, the feathery fronds expanding in damp
'weather and glistening with dew. Obtainable only from
[The Union Co M 299 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
/
ARABI’S CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN-HENN A,
for Grey Hair, the best and cheapest, Is. and 2s. 6d.
(Observe signature, Alfred Ardley, No.. 7410.)
Avoid the counterfeiter (same case, same bottle).
Genuine obtainable:—
SYDNEY: MARK FOY’S, ALL CHEMISTS, W.
ASSOMIJLL and Stores.
MELBOURNE: EDMENT’S, FOY’S, COLE’S, MAC-
LELLAN’S. ALL CHEMISTS, W. ASSOMULL.
RICKABDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE.
Personal Direction Mr. HUGH D. McINTOSH.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
O HANA SAN & CO., in “ A Vision of Japan.”
HANNA—THE DE BRUNS—BERT, Novelty Dancing.
OSBORN & BROOKES, Musical Comedy Duo.
MISS KITTY DALE, Popular Singing Comedienne.
MR. GEORGE WHITEHEAD, Dramatic Baritoi e.
JACKSON FAMILY, Eight Sensational Trick Cyclists.
CUMMIN & SEAHAM, Knockabout Comedians.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
Prices: 5/-, 4/- and 1/-
OPERA HOU S E. MELBO U R N E.
Personal Direction Mr. HUGH D. McINTOSH.
TAYLOR & ARNOLD, American Ragtime Comedians.
MADGE TEMPLE, the Fashion-plate of Vaudeville.
HENRI FRENCH, the Intoxicated Genius.
CHARLES ZOLI, Burlesque Comedian.
SAYLES & VVARTON, Colored Comedians.
MONS. REYNARD, Dramatic Baritone, assisted by
MDLLE. ROSELLA.
MARSHALL CROSBY. Baritone Vocalist.
Plan at Allan’s. iSfTPRICES —45., 35., 25., Is.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee: GEO. MARLOW LTD.
Direction ALLAN HAMILTON.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, MAY 3.
First Production in Melbourne of the Emotional
Comedy Diama,
A WOMAN OF IMPULSE.
By VICTOR WIDNELL.
Prices: 5/-, 3/-, 1/- Plan at Pianola Co.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S NEW COMIC OPERA CO.
EVERY EVENING.
THE COUNT OF LUXEMBOURG.
IN TWO ENTRANCING ACTS.
Plan at Allan’s. Reserved Seats & Dress Circle, 6/-
Balcony and Stalls, 4/- ; Pit and Gallery, 2/-
heat' rA bo ya l, Melbourne!
Direction J, C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, MAY 3.
FOR THE LAST TWELVE NIGHTS OF THE SEASON.
Bernard Shaw’s Greatest Comedy,
MAN AND SUPERMAN.
PRICES: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-
Stalls, 4/-. Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager: William Anderson.
Direction of J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
LAST TWELVE NIGHTS
of
THE DRAMATIC VERSION OF THE WORLD’S
GREATEST STORY,
PADS T.
POPULAR PRICES. PLANS AT ALLAN’S.
THENvEUM HALL, MELBOURNE.
THE CELEBRATED
JOSEPH MfIfCABE’S ILLUSTRATED
LECTURES
(TWICE)
on
EVOLUTION AND ASTRONOMY.
JOSEPH McCA 13 E.
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY), MAY 1—
THE ROMANCE OF AUSTRALIA.
FRIDAY, MAY 2
LIFE IN OTHER WORLDS.
SATURDAY, MAY 3
THE ROMANCE OF AUSTRALIA.
MONDAY, MAY 5
THE EVOLUTION OF SCENERY.
BALLARAT—
MONDAY and TUESDAY, MAY 12, 13.
NEW ZEALAND TOUR BEGINS
DUNEDIN, TUESDAY, MAY 20.
35., 25., Is. CARLYE SMYTHE.
D I J O U THEATRE, MELBOUkvv
D Lessees : Oriental Amusement Co. Ltd op it <N E -
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT luy/ U ' U
THE TALK OF MELBOURNE
AMERICAN
MUSICAL BURLESQUE COMPANV
A Complete American Company of 40 Artists '
in the New Musical Burlesque 1
THE SPECULATORS
ONE CONTINUOUS SCREAM.
DIJOV THEATR E, M E L It O I » v U
° SITUATED CENTRE BOURKE STREET '
Close to all Trains and Trains. ’
FULLY EQUIPPED FOR ALL KINDS
OF UP-TO-DATE ENTERTAINMENTS.
This Theatre is so well and favorably known that
further description is not needed.
Its popularity is evidenced by the crowded and
fashionable audiences nightly attending the perform
of the Oriental Amusement Company of
AVAILABLE FOR LETTING FOR ANY PERIOD
FROM SATURDAY, 24th MAY NEXT.
Owner has placed all business arrangements in the
hands of
MR. F. J. PITCHER,
c/o FINK, BEST & HALL, Solicitors, Collins Street
Melbourne, to whom apply for particulars as to ’
terms, etc.
li] EDWARD IS K A NSC oATITUs
FIVE COMPANIES OP
DANDIES.
EVERY EVENING.
ST. KILDA —Season Closes MAY 5.
INVERCARGILL, N. ZEALAND—Season Opens MAY 5.
AUCKLAND, N. ZEALAND —Season Opens May 10.
YKIC THEATRE, Chapel St., Prahrau, Vic
EVERY NIGHT at 8. MATINEE, SATURDAY'
at 2.30.
THE FAMOUS “NON-FLICKER”
PHOTOPLAYS
on the Marvellous “Mack” Screen, together with the
Superb LYRIC ORCHESTRA. 6d. to 2s. Plans at
Allan’s, C. M. Read’s and the Lyric Theatre Cali.
IKECTION AMALGAMATED PICTURES
LTD.
Melbourne’s Latest and Finest Picture Palace.
THE MAJESTIC THEATRE.
FLINDERS STREET, opp. Princes Bridge Station.
Continuous Matinees Daily from 12 to 6 o’clock.
3d., 6d. and 1/-
Evening Prices: 2/-, 1/6. 1/- and 6d. Plan at Allan’s.
OL Y M P I A OLIMPIA.
JL Y M P I A. MELBOURNE.
(Just across Princes Bridge).
WHERE ARE TO BE SEEN THE UNRIVALLED
SEENCEII’S PICTURES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS AT 2.30.
EVERY NIGHT AT 8.
yt/ E S T’S PALA C E, MELBOURNE.
•nfE best WEST’S PICTURES™* best
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8. Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays,
and All Holidays at 2.30.
Tiie Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Anv Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be
seen at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change
every week. Prices —6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen s.
I K C H & CARROLL
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers. • ..
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of which
we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General rum
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office: ROTHWELL CHAMBERS, BRISBANE.
What
You Want is Lessons in Elocution.
ELOCUTION BY POST.
“One of the strange mysteries of life is that those who have something' to
say worth hearing do not take the slightest trouble to learn how to make it
properly heard.”— William Ewart Gladstone.
The Distinguished Actor
Walter Bentley
of World-Wide Fame
Teaches by Post or by Private Lessons.
The Stage a Speciality. Many Engagements Made. Good Commercial Asset.
All further information and arrangement of time of
Private Tuition and Fees can be ascertained on
application at the College or by letter.
301 A PITT STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
f
ƒ
-pHE first week in Juiao is the date of the
1 big Carnival —are you coining V
Make all arrangements now —you’ll
have the holiday of the year. The climate
in Brisbane is just delightful—soft, balmy
nights and warm, genial days, with all the
countryside a blaze of sub-tropical splendor.
For any information needed write to —
C. DYSON-HOLJ AND,
Sec. Q.T.C.,
BRISBANE.
» '
%***.» */f - *"m *
y v f- *&*.,
-■A if*4&
Jrist:
« .
f


ƒ
a
a
%
L
\JP
m
The Vest Pocket Kodak
Get this Kodak—it’s the smallest made —dainty, efficient,
compact, easily worked and easily understood. Will fit a waist-
coat pocket or lady’s handbag, takes pictures x works
in daylight all the way, and is fitted with a carefully-selected Lens,
Ball-bearing Shutter, Brilliant Reversible Finder,
and Auto-time Scale. Price
30/-
Postage' extra, Gel. Descriptive pamphlet free.
Cameras are the
Easiest to Use and
the Most Reliable
Simplicity —that is the keynote of Kodak Photography, the
feature that makes it easy for anybody —for YOU if you care to
take it up as a pastime.
Kvery operation in the making of Kodak pictures is interesting,
and no dark room is necessary for the work.
And think of the splendid opportunities your Kodak will give
you for making scores of priceless pictures at home, on your
holidays, the sights you see, the people you meet, the sport you
have, and the incidents of your everyday life.
Yon can learn to use a Kodak in half an hour by following
the instructions in the book supplied with each instrument ; or, if
you prefer it, one of our salesmen or the Kodak dealer in your
district will be only too pleased to impart the desired information.
Brownie Cameras —they work like Kodaks— s "to 50/-;
Kodaks, from 21/-. Kodak Catalogue free on request.
KODAK (Australasia) LTD
Incorporating Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd.
SYDNEY: 370 George Street.
MELBOURNE: “The BlocK.” 284 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE: 37 Rundle Street.
BRISBANE: 78-80 Queen Street.
TOOWOOMBA : Ruthven Street.
TOWNSVILLE: Flinders Street.
BROKEN HILL: 346 Argent Street.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. : 3 Lome Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z, : 6 Mercer Street.
l
K’-V'-V-.V'-:
a
im
m
mti
“Viyella-
For Garments Made at Home.
“ VIYELLA” is a fabric to which you will
take an instant liking. It is so pleasantly soft
to handle, easy to make up, and always smart
and dainty when made up, that every far-seeing
and practical housewife prefers it to linen or
cotton materials.
The comfort it gives, the service it assures, and the delightful
colorings of the new patterns, make “VIYELLA” ideal for
Autumn and Winter, for, in addition to providing dainty and
tasteful wear for this season of the year, “ VIYELLA ” guards
against sudden weather changes and cold days.
“ VIYELLA ” is stocked by leading drapers and storekeepers,
etc. If yours has not got it, the name and address of the nearest
establishment at which it is available will be sent free upon
application. I. and R. MORLEY, 56 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY ; and at 250 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
To be sure you get the genuine cloth,
look for the name “VIYELLA”
on the selvedge.
&
jL
0.
m


Made Soft and White
\*sir
I A
In a Single
1 Night
}y Cullcura Soap
and Ointment
Treatment: On retiring, soak
the hands in hot water and
Cuticura Soap. Dry, anoint
with Cuticura Ointment, and
wear soft bandages or old loose
gloves during the night.
Cuticura Soap and Ointment are sold throughout
the world. A liberal sample of each, with 32-page
booklet on the care and treatment of the skin and
scalp, sent post-free. Address R. Towns & Co.,
Dept. F, Sydney, N. S. W.
Puts Stomach,
Liver and Bowels
in Fine Condition
To promptly end the misery of consti-
pation torpid liver, sick headache, indi-
gestion, dizziness and nausea, you must
use CARTER’S LITTLE
LIVER PILLS. They
never fail —that’s why
millions use them.
Vim,vigor, vitality,
and a clear com-
plexion are the
resultoftheir
use. You
need them.
f
Carters
WITTLE
lIVER
| PILLS.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
The
GENUINE
must bear
signature
ƒ
9
Her Youth
i
TjrkAfcLENtf
~ C 4-S-AJ
Mexican
WALNUT 'STAIN
for Grey Hair
IS THE
only permanent and really satisfactory
ONE SOLUTION Hair Stain
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES
The Best Bush Doctor of A.ll !
If you’ve got a poisoned hand, a sore leg, an abscess,
a boil, a running sore, Eczema in any form, Barcoo
rot —or if you’ve a wound that won’t heal or a
jagged cut, all you need
have to cure it is a tin of
Wilkinson’s
Eclectric Ointment.
Price 1/6, Posted 1/9. J. WILKINSON, Chemist,
K E B , Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane
ASTHMACURE
EHIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Bold by all Chemists.
r Australian Magazine. THE LONE
I HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d,
HOWTO
GROW HAIR
A Simple, Sale and Reliable Way that Produces Surprising Results
NEW PREPARATION CAUSES BIG STIR AMONG HAIR specialists
The above clearly shows Results from a Short Course of my True Hair-Growing Compound
10,000 FREE TRIAL BOXES.
Those who are troubled with falling hair, dandruff,
baldness, itching scalp, etc., know full well the
Humiliation that they cause. There is no need, how-
ever, of such conditions. These troubles can be
quickly overcome by my True Hair Grower.
I am not an advertising quack, but am a business
man. My hair began to grow thin about the time
1 reached the age of thirty. When I had reached the
age of thirty-five the top of my head was quite bald.,
[ had considerable pride, and sought for something
to cause renewed growth. I invested in every pre-
paration that I could see or hear of, and here let me
r-ay that not only did I try all the English so-called
restorers, but those of Continental Europe. I also
visited specialists. My experimenting cost me many
sovereigns and considerable time —yet the hairs came
not. I had given, up the idea Qf ever growing hair
again. One afternoon, while enjoying a brief busi-
ness respite by an Alpine trip, I fell in with an old
collegiate chemist, whose hair was particularly plen-
tiful. I jokingly remarked that I wished he could
spare some of his hair for my benefit. This lead him
to tell me that he understood the human hair as well
as a good dentist understands teeth. He wrote out a
formula, and suggested that I have a quantity of the
compound prepared. I did this a few days later. I
was astonished to see the hair coming forth after
several applications, and within six weeks my head
was covered by a firm, yet soft, black growth of hair
Since then the hair on my head has been as luxuriant
as when in my school days. Having arranged for
the legal right to do so, I have for some time been
privately selling this marvellous hair-growing com-
pound. I hold over one thousand letters from people
who have actually grown new hair through the
medium of my true hair grower. I do not pretend
to say it is the only hair grower in the world—l am
not interested in decrying others—but I do assert
that it is the most reliable, and in the end' by far the
cheapest.
Baldness, Dandruff, Itching, etc.,
Free Trial Coupon.
Cut out this Coupon and send with 3 stamps
to cover postage, etc., and I will immediately
post a large trial box of tny Ttue Hair Grower.
John Craven Burleigh, Dept. 7, 107 Castlereagh
Street. Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original ant! Only Ccnulno
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMIBTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/I*. 2/9 & 4/6. Made in England.
f
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks el
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
me cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acts like a charm In
DIARRHCEA and simple DYSENTERY.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dog’s Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
ig
Choose a “Swan.”
The comfort of it, the sureness, ease,
sweetness —each and every character-
istic deserves notice. The “Swan”
Fountpen pleases the most impatient,
exacting writer —those who expect
more out of a pen than others have
given. We can satisfy! such and win
their enthusiastic recommendation.
Every hand suited exactly.
"" “Swan safety
Can't Leak,
Blot, Miss,
or Scratch!
Catalogue free on request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London and
Australian Branch (Wholesale only): J. A. BURKh.
_ Sold by alt Stationers
Branches. and Jewellers.
15 Waltham Building, 24 Bond St. Sydney.
ƒ
f
Benger’s Food is specially pre-
pared to build up the weakened
digestive system, and to pro-
mote a high state of bodily
nutrition while doing so.
It is the only food enabling rest and regulated
exercise to be given to the digestive functions.
Benger’s is not a predigested food, nor does
it contain dried milk. It is made with fresh milk,
and forms a dainty and delicious cream with a
delicate biscuit flavour. Patients never tire of
ƒ
but, on the contrary, continue to enjoy it
Bgo
Erery householder should possess a copy of “ BENGER’S FOOD,
AND HOW TO USE IT—FOR INFANTS, INVALIDS, AND THE
A r,ED.' Post Free from
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., Otter Works, MANCHESTER, ENB.
117, PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.B.W.
Nz Hewers Food is s old in ti is bv Dmp -istx, etc., everywhere.
f
Food
The Inky Way.
“Sardonyx”: I knew the recently-retired Jim
Middleton well. The Melbourne Herald office in
my time (mid-’7o’s) was in a lane between Big
Bourke and Little, and, though “Swearing Sam”
Winter was then the editor, the names cited by
“H.C.C.” (B. 3/4/’l3) are as strange to me (bar
that of Walstab) as to him will probably be thos<
of Harry Dix, George Collier, Grosvenor Bunster,
Ned Wheeler and Billy Bannon. Banncm was the
printer, and, when the paper happened to be a bit
late, it was a treat to see Billy placidly tinkering
with the formes and gently whistling “In Happy
Moments,” while Winter raged round him in a
tornado of profanity.
* * * *
Ex-Queenslander Ross, who has been running the
Maoriland Worker, and going fanti on the anti-
Defence business, takes over the Red Rag of the Mel-
bourne Socialists again. Or, rather, he assumes the
Crimson Tatter of one section of the Melbourne
Socialists—the one that paints “Socialist Party Hall”
over its tabernacle in Elizabeth-street. The other
section, which also claims to be the one and only
true Magennis, paints “Socialist Party Hall” over its
tabernacle in yictoria-street, where Wilson, ex-secre-
tary of the Elizabeth-street coterie, is now the pan-
jandrum.
* * * *
“G.Y.W.”: Despite “Evan Blessus” (B. 6/2/’l3),
the fact that the views expressed may not be a
writer’s personal convictions does not affect the ques-
tion of signed journalism. The object of the signed
article is not to lay the writer open to persecution
because of his opinions, but that the public may form
an opinion as to the motive. This point is recog-
nised by the Bananaland cockies, who are asking the
Legislature to enact that all forecasts in connection
with agricultural produce shall be signed. The way
in which markets have been forced up or down on the
strength of forecasts written by interested individuals
13 well known. The difficulty about leader-writers who
write under express instructions from the manager of
the paper can be met by stating that the article
has been so written. If the writer can success-
fully write up a bad case, such as Anti-Sosh, then
his reputation will be great in the land, just as the
reputation of a barrister who successfully defends a
notorious criminal. No one clamors for anonymous
barristers, anonymous artists, poets, generals, ad-
mirals, Polar explorers, miscellaneous heroes, novel-
ists, or even merchants. Why, then, the demand for
anonymous pressmen ?
* * * *
The S. M. Herald has reviewed H. M. Hyndman’s
“Further Reminiscences.” The leit-motiv is a species
of mild regret, tinctured with amazement, that a rich
man, and a man in English Society to boot,
should go on so. The Herald finds that Hyndman
“has achieved a lively and interesting volume.” But
“it is rather a nitv that a man of the author’s
acknowledged ability and standing should have
thought it necessary to repeat all the old shibboleths
of Socialistic pamphleteering.” How the old Lower
Tooting-cum-Conventicle viewpoint sticks ! Barrister
’ournalist George Burnett Barton (a brother of Bar-
ton of the High Court) was no Socialist, but he wrote
of the S. M. Herald years ago:—
“The Herald was brought into existence by men
who knew nothing of literature, and cared nothing
for politics except as they affected ‘business.’ It
adopted a policy which could not possibly give
offence to men of property—a policy which advocated
the claims of rank and wealth with unflagging
ardor The paper was little more than a sheetful of
advertisements and news.... The leading features of
its character have been faithfuly preserved up to the
present day.... It contains all the advertisements and
all the news of the passing day—and it maintains
the cause of good old English Toryism in all its
g10ry.... The principal feature of the system appears
to be a bland adoration of wealth and position. . . .Its
politics are Tory politics, and of the most inveterate
stamp: politics not only repulsive to the bulk of the
people, but such as few educated men can agree
with.”
And every scornful word of the above holds equally
good to-day.
Brother Harry Holland, the press leader of the
complete hog Socialists in New South Wales, has
been appointed editor of the Maoriland (Wellington)
Worker, in place of Robert Ross, who has moved
on to the Melbourne press.
THE INKY WAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On fretted flint and graven stone
And quaintly figured ivory,
On tooth and shell and carven bone
And old Egyptian papyri
They wrought the rune of History ;
Good people read it as ye may,
The beacon lights of Used to Be
Illume the good old Inky Way.
In antique garden, cloister lone,
White fingers plied their ministry,
With seed of pearls for largesse thrown
And gem-encrusted broidery,
And eke in blazoned heraldry
From monk in monastery grey
The beacon lights of Used to Be
Flame down the good old Inky Way.
Down medieval highways blown
By gusty winds of heresy,
By rotting church and ruined throne,
And drifting wrack of Destiny,
From serfdom to Democracy
O’er changing systems of to-day,
The beacon lights of Used to Be
Flame down the good old Inky Way!
Envot.
Per Hoe press and telegraphy
In modem mood the game we play,
While beacon lights of Used to Be
Flame down the good old Inky Way!
VICTORIA.
MARIE E. J. PITT.
STATE IT BRIEFLY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
State it briefly ! Put it tersely, toiling Brother of
the Pen!
Cyanide your information—sift, and boil it down
again ;
For the world is in a hurry and the traveller in
the car
Skips the long-drawn special article to gulp the little
par.
Get the essence of the story, analyse it how you will,
For the man who’s in a hurry wants it packed into
a pill ;
Cut the fireworks and the flowers —and the struggle
to be “bright” ;
“Constant Reader” wants no banquet, but a biscuit
is “just right.”
Carve your lingering heroics. Let the snow lie not
too thick ;
Our capacity for sorrow is so much. More makes us
sick !
Keep in mind this limitation when your lagging
brain you la«h;
Then allow a safety discount of (say) half a col.
for cash.
Keep it down, O Spreading Brother, if you’d win at
last to grace!
Shame the writer’s special Tempter when* he talks
to you of Space!
Never go and fill a hogshead with the contents of a
tub,
Or you’ll never— never —NEVEß be a print-con-
densing “sub” !
N.S.W.
THE RELIGIOUS EDITOR.


Demand
Burked
* £r £r Irish
yyhiskey
The World-wide
Whiskey
IY CENir
e^B
OID iRISHWHISKfJf
DUOLIH (
Corked ft Capsuftd by us '
\<X> Trustworthy
P»*UTV 7MOVCKOUI TUI >^ 0 "
i
Exquisitely mellow?
delicate in flavour,
light and digestive.
E. & J. Ltd., Dublin.
Capital £1,100,000. Est. 1849.
By far the largest Shippers
of Bottled Whiskey
from Dublin.
The finishing touch.
I
t
0 s*:
m
■
THE
tt
KALODERMA"
preparations are the most perfect of Toilet
Requisites.
''KALODERMA"
Soap. Prepared with Q 1 ycerine and Honey.
Luxurious and refreshing. The best Soap for
Softening and Beautifying the complexion.
"KALODERMA"
Face Powder. Unequalled for the Toilet.
Refined and soothing. Can be had in Pink,
White or Cream
"KALODERMA"
r , makes and keeps the complexion as pure
as the Lily. A most lovely Skin Emollient.
Absolutely free from Grease.
’’KALODERMA"
Is obtainable at all the Leading Establishments.
F. WOLFF & SOHN
IiARLSRUHE Germany and LONDON.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Establish™ IS4B p or Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehol
Frcoiini/t . . City or Suburban Prooerties, or o
of Debentl,rL« 0 ln« Pa *K°w a !»f A e r,cu,tural Lands, or on the Security
traltah Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
TOto»On«™T e n l ,^ d c°nt»'ns a condition allow, n<r Borrowers the orivileye of repavinsr
Directors Th “° P* r °«" c - ® f the loan aunns: any year, without notice or payment of anv fine.
Hon. JamesßurarilL a - The Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputv-Chairman ; The
Esq., K.C. • Alex MaeCormiek a lack ’^ L C - ; The Hon. F. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C. ; Adrian Knox,
HEAD OFFICE •8V pm OTRFFT q <?V^iNEV GI Mttn ** ep and Actuary : Richard Teeee, F.1.A., F.F.A.. F.S.S.
STREET, SYDNEY. H . w. APPERLY, Secretary.
V c
ƒ
Waterman's
(Ideal)
Fburitgrtffen
Lost in London, lost again in Quebec, and
after 18 years’ use as efficient as when quite
new. Read this striking testimonial: —
“ You will be interested to know that the Waterman’s
Ideal Fountain Pen purchased from you in 1894 has been
in constant, unimpaired service ever since. To-day it
writes as well as on the first day of use, 18 years ago. It
does not leak, scratch, or fail to mark on the first contact
with paper, as is often the case with other makes.
“ I could write an interesting story of how I lost it, once
in the busy streets of London, twice in Quebec snow-
storms, once again in a huge wood-pile of a saw-mill,
always to find it again ; but I desist. I am happy
to give you this unsolicited testimonial to the continued
value of your fountain pen.
“ Yours sincerely, (Rev.) John H. Wright.”
in 4 types Regular and Self-Filling, 12/6 and upwards;
Safety and Pump-Filling, 15/- and upwards.
Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
L. & C. Hardtmuth, Ltd., Koh-i-noor House, London, England.
(AwtnlU— 350, George St* Sydney.)
Fairbanks-Morse Marine F.rtg
For Pleasure Craft and Work Boats
They start without cranking, run
smoothly and always develop more
than rated power. Simple.
Compact. All parts easily acces-
sible and interchangeable. Re-
markable for their reliability and
economy in fuel consumption. Price
Reasonable. Fully Guaranteed.
High Speed Engines, 334 to 24 H.P.
Slow Speed Engines, 7 34 and 15 H.P.
Write for Catalog N0.CV1939.
Fairbanks-Morse >
Eclipse Engines
Small, sturdy engines especially suited
for pumping or running light machinery.
Simple. Compact. Two sizes. Will operate
any windmill pump.
Full description in Catalog JNo.iy39VR.
F.n
Type
7V 2 H.P.
Fairbanks-Morse
Oil Engines
Operate on Kerosene, Petrol (Gasoline)
or Distillate. Stationary and Portable
types. Sizes 2to 200 H.P.
Write for Catalog No.ALIV3y.
Fairbanks, Morse & Co.
Wabash Ave. and Chicago,
Eldredge Place U. S. A.
Agents:
C. H. RELPH
Sidney, N. S. W.
WEBSTER & CO., Ltd.
Brisbane, Queensland
MALLACH BROS.
Perth, W. A.
:Skf t
AJAX
F org'ing
Machines
ƒ
Make Your Upset Forgings
by Ajax Forging Methods.
There’s profit in making upset
forgings by Ajax Forging
Machine methods —not alone
because finish is good and pro-
duction fast, but because a wide
range of work can be bandied
in these machines—work which
up to the time Ajax methods
were perfected was considered
impossible to produce economi-
cally on anv forging machine.
Bolt heading is one of the sim-
plest forms of headed work,
yet nearly every shop has more
or less of it to do.
If you use duplicate forgings,
no matter how large or small,
we can show you how AJAX
Machines will cut their cost of
production.
f
Send us blue
prints or samples,
and we will fur-
nish estim ate d
productions, and
take the entire
risk and responsi-
bility cf proving
our claims in each
instance.
Our catalogs are
full of interesting
examples.
WRITE FOR
A COPY.
RENSON BROTHERS
(Bole Agents for Australasia),
51-53 Druitt Street, SYDNEY.
60 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
ARE YOU
DEAF?
If you are deaf, or going deaf, you will be glad to
hear of a simple and scientific device which restores
hearing, no matter how old you are. No mystery or
secrecy about it; we describe it fully, and explain
just how it acts. You use spectacles as sight magni-
fiers, and in the same way you use this sound magni-
her to hear better. Unlike spectacles, the Wilson
Uommon-sense Ear-Drums are invisible and comfort-
at) le. No one can tell you are wearing them. They
rest the ear nerves by taking the strain off them —the
strain of trying to hear indistinct sounds. What a
relief to have done with that tiring strain. Being
made of the softest Para rubber they cannot be felt,
even when the head rests on a pillow. For the same
reason, a blow on the side of the head will not hurt
the ear. They protect the tender inner parts of the
ear, that are so sensitive, from cold winds, dust, sud-
den and piercing sounds.
So that you may clearly understand how the Sound
Magnifiers restore hearing, we give an illustration of
one as it lies in the ear. You will notice that the
Sound Magnifier is shaped like a trumpet, and so con-
yovs even the faintest sounds right to the natural drum.
Being of the softest rubber, it cannot the ear.
It fits the orifice of the ear
with precision and comfort.
The division that runs
across the mouth is to al-
low the removal and inser-
tion of the Ear-Drum, and
to brace it.
The shape of the Wilson
Ear-Drum has been chosen
after years of experience as
the best adapt-
ed to carry the
faintest sound.
Of course, i f
you have lost
the h ea r i ng-
nerve com-
pletely, or were
born deaf, we
cannot pretend
to cure you. Only a miracle could
v in spite of some of the
absurd claims made to-day. But
of you can hear the faintest sound,
do not despair. You will never
regret trying the Wilson Ear-
Drums. We have letters to show
you from deaf people in Australia
and New Zealand, who have been
cured, and you can be cured, too. You 'iTiav wear
the Ear-Drums day and night, and take them out
whenever you wish. Children can wear them (vve
have special sizes for children from six to twelve)
klst danger 030 “ nd rerr,ove them without the
vieTti 6 P -ri C - e - is 1 fee for a doctor’s single
•' rh,s ’ ncludas a P. air of drums (they are onlv
sold in pairs), a fine nickel remover, and also an
inserter. After the first pair is bought you may pur-
chase a single drum at any time for' Ss„ but the
pair you get at first will last quite two vears. Do
not ask for a trial pair. We do not send them out
on trial, and so they are never secondhand. Use the
Order form below, and the Outfit will be sent vou
at once, with the fullest instructions. Don’t delav,
but have the comfort of good hearing as soon as vou
can.
ORDER FORM.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
103 Arlington Chambers,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Please send me an Outfit containing a pair of
Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums, an Inserter and a
Remover, for which I enclose One Pound.
Name
Address
NOTE.—Send Money Order or Postal Note. If a
Bank Note or Sovereign is sent, yOu must register it.
e<9
M.B. FOSTER’S
BUGLE
ƒ
BRAND
18m
BRIGHT
TO THE
LAST DROP. ■
f
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
Over 30 years ago the late Lord
JBeaconsfield testified to the benefits
he received rom Himrod’s
Asthma Powder and every
post brings simdar letters
to-day.
T-ifCOA
Famed for 40 Years.
Best remedy lor Asthma,
Hay hever, Rose Cord, or
ord nary Cough.
So rt m 7ms by ad Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
THE Australian Magazine—THE TONE
HAND. The National Monthly. Price, 6d.
LETTERS COPIED
4
is'
[irmß
ƒ
ZANETIC
: c CT c
WHILE WRITING (IN INK)
by using your own Letter Paper,
Invoices, etc., with this Copying-
book. You simply insert your
Letter paper (as illustrated) then
write: and the act of writing pro-
duces a perfect letter and a per-
fect copy in the book. There is
no sign of your having taken a
copy : no perforated edge.
Book N.S.C./200 copies either
200 letters size 10 by 8 in., or4oo
size Bby 5, price 3/9; or Book
N.S.C /400 copies 400 or 800 re-
spectively, nrice 5/- post free,
i , . . cash with Special Dainty
Octavo Book, makmg 200 copies, for 31- P. 0., or double capacity
tor 4/3. Sample of the wonderful Zanetic Ink Paper which
makes the copy, free , if stamped addressed envelope sent to
8.8. ZANETCC, Welford Rd., LEICESTER, ENGLAND.


“THE CERT” D.8.8.L. GUN 12-gauge, top lever 30in. steel barrels,
extension rib, rebounding locks, left choke, snap fore-end, pistol
grip, walnut stock; weight about 71b- .....£l/15/-
Same Gun as above, but with Greener cross bolt £2151.
Postage on one Gun, 2/9 N.S.W. ; 5/2 Inter-State.
Harrington $ Richardson’s
5.8.8. L. Gun,
12-g a u ge, top
action, solid case
hardened locks,
decarbonised steel barrel, 30in. pistol grip, walnut stock, weight
about 6Mb. Gun can be tftken a P arfc » same as an ordinary Double
Barrel Gun. Auto-Ejector, 24 /-; Non-Ejector, 21/-
f
Postage—2/6 N. S.W.
4/8 Inter-State.
“The Continental,” 5.8.8. L. Bicycle Collector Gun,
410 bore, finest Sietnen’s steel barrel, side lever action, solid or skeleton, walnut stock, case
hardened locks, 24in. barrel, length over all 38|in., weight about 41b. A splendid
gun for use in Orchards. Postage —Is. 9d. N.S.W.. 3s. 2d. Inter-btate
35/
MICK SIMMONS LTD.
Head Depot: HAYMARHET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches: City, Suburbs and Newcastle.
Send for our
Price List of
Guns, Rifles,
Ammunition,
etc. Post Free
Anywhere.
GPNS that give Satisfaction.
The BEST and CHEAPEST HOUSE
for all kinds of
GUN REPAIR WORK.
©
■I..
National Arms Co.’s 12- or 16-Gau&e D.8.8.L. Gun,
reinforced breech, top lever, full rebounding, bar interchangeable locks, Greener cross
bolt, extension rib, left full, right modified choke, 30in. special steel barrels, pistol grip,
walnut stock, engraved, weight of 12-gauge about 6flb. to 71b.,
of 16-gauge 6Jlb. to DELIVERED,
We can supply this Gun in 20-gauge, at 14/- extra.
We are the Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the above Gun, which has been made to our own specifica-
tions, and therefore can thoroughly recommend same as a cheap, reliable weapon.
67/6
!
©
9
The “Continental ” Combined Double
Barrel Shot Gun and Rifle,
30in. Krupp Steel Barrels, bar locks, cross bolt, the gun barrel full choke, 12-
gauge shot, 32 Winchester Rifle calibre, weight about 7£lb.
CARRIAGE PAID.
£6 10s.
The First Successful Self-Filling Fountain Pen.
Always the Leader, Without a Peer.
f
"THE A.A.” AUTOMATIC SELF-FILLING FOUNTAIN PEN
is the pen for which there is no substitute. Its self-filling method
is exclusive. It is filled by simply twisting the button, holding
the pen point in the ink and, by a reverse twist, the pen is filled.
As the ink is held in a durable reservoir, the pen cannot leak.
No soiling of fingers or any annoying “filler” necessary to keep
“The A.A.” ready for service.
Fitted with i4kt. gold pens, any style or size, with plain,
chased or mottled holders, or mounted in sterling silver filigree,
gold filled and mother of pearl. They are for sale at all shops.
The cut herein shows the newly patented “ A. A. ’ Clip attached to the
cap of the pen. It excels by far any fountain pen clip yet produced. It
holds perfectly firm, and can be attached almost instantly.
If you cannot secure “ The A.A.” Automatic Self-Filling
Fountain Pen with the “ A. A.” Clip at your store, write for prices to
RYAN, LEWIS (Si CO. Pty., Ltd.,
521 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sole Agents for Australasia and New Zealand of the -■
ARTHUR A. WATERMAN COMPANY, New York, U.S.A.
NOT CONNECTED WITH THE L. E. WATERMAN CO. [2
70 Copies per Minute.
ƒ
That is the rate at which perfect copies
can be produced on the
Cestetner Rotary
Duplicator
from either typewritten or handwritten
copy.
You simply place a pile of paper on the machine, turn the handle, and the copies
are turned out printed and counted.
There is no dirty inking arrangement.
Suitable for:—
STOCK LISTS, CIRCULARS,
FOLLOW-UP LETTERS, EXAMINATION PAPERS.
If you have to make any number of copies over 25, it will pay you to ask how
the machine can be applied to your business.
Write for Booklet.
STOTT & UNDERWOOD,
70 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BOX 1556, G.P.O.
Schute, Bell & Go.
LIMITED,
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS,
44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WOOL STORES Harris Street, Pyrmont.
Sell on Commission only.
New and thoroughly up-to-
date Stores. Inspection
invited. Personal atten-
tion a feature of the
business.
A Steadily growing com-
pany.
PRODUCE STORES—Athlone Place.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OP NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving's, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friknd, Is 6d. Nf.d Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is 3d. Parlor Tricks and
Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, Is 2d. All The
Bulletin series. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales, Is 3d.
Tricks and Diversions With Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces. Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is 6d.
M
B
B
t*
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
KMBRACINB
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT *IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will he posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER TO THE. COMMONWEALTH.-*!
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers! Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for ail Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easj-, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations’ and portraits. Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor '■ Every Man His Own Schoolmaster
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,.
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ds.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is pdst. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The WAybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying: more.
Compare my prices with others ana
save your cash. i:'SP Kst&blished 2d 1 eats.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
Write for mv
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY OKDEfc OB
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO D ■
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How TO Make Up, IllustraiedGu.deo-he
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is- Sappho,?
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d dos .
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical I >> us ““ t ' on !’ is.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing J „ THK ring,
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champio. Secrki
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, -.s. m.
History Court of England, Is 3dl p’ • Rg lg .y.
Letter Writer, Is. All About Inc ’ to all
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, . p oCltsT
Decrees, New Edition, Is P ost f®' 7s post.
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokolog Rkad Heads
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, uo advice to a
<Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevassk S()N9
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful to free.
Hook, over 300 latest s° n RS, 1 P posted.
Bbnnarr Macfadden s Works, all at " w £ oB ab-
Sappho, is. Bread and Handbook.
Boilers’ assistant, is 3d. *“*".,“* 100 N E#
1s 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, ANP
Recitations and Readings, Is , Laro b Un-
its Cure, Is 2d posted. W *^ T I( Jo i ii uB ., leather
abridged Dictionary, 1700 P^?® 8 ’ v v 3 a nd *
i.ound, my price, los P°st paid(o. P Dy!iA .
o-uineas). Bootmaking and r ® rair J; ’ univbb 8 * 1 ’
mos AND Electric Motors, Is c M lO i6 pages, cloth
Assistant and Complete X 0 ° f clairvoyancß,
5S “M?


I
s
22
Mrs. A.
Clucns ,
cured by
Bile Beans
ILWUSNE#
A BUSY HOUSEWIFE’S PROSTRATING
ATTACKS COMPLETELY CURED.
I WAS a great sufferer from pros-
trating bilious attacks,” says Mrs.
A. Clucas, of 45 Stephen Street,
Camperdown, Sydney. “ The feelings
of utter distress were terrible. Indeed,
I was quite incapable of performing my
household tasks, and I was forced to
neglect them on more than one occasion.
“The painful headaches in my temples
and at the back of the head and down
my neck would be very trying. My
temples used to throb and throb, and I
would hold my head with the tortures of
the violent pulsation.
“ Pains in the chest and between the
shoulders also gave me great pain, and
were the result of indigestion. When I
would take a meal an uncomfortable
feeling of fulness would follow, which
would not be due to the quantity of food
taken, but to the fact that what I had eaten would not diet.
“ 1 took many so-called remedies in my search for a medicine
that would bring me relief, but my efforts were in vain, and 1 con-
tinued to suffer. A friend persuaded me to try Bile Beans, and hearing
from others also what a splendid medicine for liver and functional disorders
Bile Beans are, 1 decided to take the advice, so purchased a box. Even the
first dose brought great relief: the headaches eased, and my temples
throbbed less violently. After taking Bile Beans regularly for a few days, the bilious attacks
gradually left me, until they subsided altogether, and the fearful pains of the Indigestion also
Vanished. Bile Beans seemed to root the complaints that had made my life practically a misery
Completely out of my system, and I no\V keep them always In the house as a family medicine,
and speak well of them always, **
The Standard Family Medicine
BILE BEANS are a true
and reliable family
medicine, and valu-
able tor old and
young- ot both sexes.
A supply should al-
ways be kept in every
medicine chest and
a. dose taken on the
■first signs of a head-
ache or any stomach
trouble. An occasion-
al of Bile Beans
wi I help you to keep
healthy and strong.
Sold at 1/I£. and 2/9 by
all Stores & Chemists.
<7
means
IT,. FOR |
]ihousness\
THE
QUESTION of the DAY.
The question of to-day,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding day is
have: you used pears’ soap ?
If you Have not, you Have not
done your duty by your skin and
complexion. If, on the otHer Hand
—tHat is, on botH Hands, and on tHe
face, and on tHe skin generally you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
Happy, for you will Have done tHe
best tHat possibly can be done tor
tHe skin’s HealtH and beauty. There
can be no question about tHat.
PEARS Has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years.
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
The Golden Shore Hotel.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
XF Providence should say to me : “Good
son, ask thou a boon,
And it shall granted be ere Time has
sued another moon.
Thy many virtues earn thee this. Seek not
the how ol- why.”
Id say: “Q Lord, let me be young, and never
let me die.”
But as I cannot hope for this, that Provi-
dence to me
Should offer any special gift, I bend in piety,
And beg a boon : “Oh, hear me now, from
whom all blessings well—
And guide me when I perish to the Golden
Shore Hotel.”
I know that pub; I see it now; the final
house of call;
I see the sign above the door: “Free drinks
to one and all.”
And all the friends I had on earth, the men
I loved so well,
Will gather in the parlor of the Golden
Shore Hotel.
And all the girls we used to love will serve
behind the bar,
To fill and pass the crystal globes of Provi-
dence three-star—
To laugh with us. to chaff with us —Eulalie,
Doll and Nell—
We'll find the girls we want to find at the
Golden Shore Hotel.
No Ghucker-out will bawl at us: “Now,
gents, it’s closing time.”
Tire lights will flash eternally; no warning
clock shall chime.
And late souls landing from the craft which
Charon’s arms pronel
Will find the boys still going strong at the
Golden Shore Hotel.
High up a ruby star shall blaze to light them
on their way.
And show the tariff sign, which reads, “All
guests ten laughs a day.
No sorrow stocked; no tears on tap; our
brands of joy excel.
(Signed) Providence, proprietor of the
Golden Shore Hotel.”
The counter-lunch will beat the band ; the
beer will flow from wood ;
We’ll sleep on down of angels’ wings, have
angels serve the food
(Those angel« with the bosker hair and eyes
of asphodel)
We’ll hear them calling, “Chops for two,”
at the Golden Shore Hotel.
And after tea we’ll light the pipes and let
the blue smoke "o,
And yarn about the foolish things they do
on earth below ;
Or play a hand at devil’s pool, or poker for
a spell.
With little stars as chips to bet at the
Golden Shore Hotel.
Far down in gloom and dark we’ll see a large
untidy Pit.
Each stranger will be taken out and told the
use of it:
“That’s what they used to lie about the
times they preached of Hell—
It’s used for stacking “ dead marines” from
the Golden Shore Hotel!
H.S.W.
THE SNAKE.
Romance and the Caterpillar.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT was the fag end of a lovely summer
evening. The stout, perspiring man
with the music roll in his hand and the
silk handkerchief stuffed between his red
neck and his collar, stopped at the gate and
■‘shot a hostile glance at the bent back of the
gardening householder. “Good evening,
■Dredglin,” he remarked curtly.
The gardener straightened up and re-
settled his spectacles on his long, thin nose.
He w T as a long, thin man with sparse whisk-
ers and patient brown eyes. “Oh, it’s you,
Storpor,” he remarked without enthusiasm.
“I’m just trying to get the place clear of
caterpillars.” lie sighed wearily, and waved
his hand at the drawing-room window.
“You’ll find the wife inside.” Then he re-
turned to the chase, and the fat man grunted
and went panting up the path.
The sun slipped down behind the horizon,
and the gardener w’ent on his knees and
peered closely at the bushes in search of his
prey. He had captured four hairy destroy-
ers, and dropped them into the bucket, when
a series of wild brays, accompanied, or fol-
lowed, by music, rang out on the cool air:—
“/ 10-ove thee! 1 10-o-ovc thee
Till the st-ar-s /” (Mumble and growl
of chords.)
It w r as the fat man inside passionately
howling “The Bedouin Love Song.” The
kneeling gardener looked over his shoulder
at the window, now golden in the gathering
night. “Damn his cheek!” he hissed
viciously, and groped in the mould for the
caterpillar he had dropped. Shortly after-
wards the song came to a noisy end, and the
garden drowsed in the stillness. Night
closed down rapidly. The gardener lit the
lantern he had placed close handy, and went
on with his search.
Indoors, the fat man, instead of singing
one song after another as usual, was lean-
ing heavily on the piano and declaiming to
the florid, nervous woman on the piano
stool. “You must fly with me,” he was
saying, in his stout, important way. “You
have endured him too long! Run away
with me, and let us be happy together!” lie
extended a white, trembling hand, and
mopped his brow pathetically. “I love you !”
he gasped. “Can’t you see I love vou !”
She bit her handkerchief ami looked over
her plump shoulder at Ihe door. “Hush,
Bertie! ITe might hear you!”
“He can’t!” cried the fat lover, so in-
aptly named Bertie. “He’s d"wn at the
end of the garden collecting filthy cater-
pillars!”
The stout ladv laughed bitterly. “That’s
so like him! He would rather spend his
time picking caterpillars off plants than
stay with his wife !”
Storpor took her up instantly. “Dar-
ling, let him spend all his davs collecting
caterpillars. Come away with me!”
Mrs. Dredglin shivered so that her ex-
pensive golden fetters ungled musically.
“Oh, I can’t do it! I can’t do it!”
Her lover started to fume jealously.
“Surely you don’t want to stay with him!”
he protested.
She gave him an appealing look. “It’s
tlierscandal that frightens me ! Think of the
scandal, Bertie!”
“I’ve thought of everything}'' 1 retorted
the fat lover passionately, with a backward
sweep of his arm. “The real scandal is that
you and he should continue to live together
when everyone knows that you don’t get
on. You must end it, Sybil! Things can’t
go_ on as they are going !” (The stout lady
shivered and hung her head.) “What would
happen, do you think, if he found out that
you and I loved each other! He would
speak bitter words to you. and I would
strangle him!” (“A 7 0, no, Bertie!") “Yes,
Sybil, I know —I feel that I would strangle
him ! Now you must decide to-night! To-
morrow I start for England to fix up about
those soap agencies. You must come with
me! /”
At this the stout lady rose out of her
chair like a laced wave and foamed to the
window, where she stopped, holding on to
the curtains as the stage female does when
she is perturbed.
“Oh, Bertie!” she murmured chokingly,
and dabbed at her lips.
“To-morrow!” repeated Bertie, staring
tragically at her broad back.
“How you must love me, Bertie!”
Bertie mopped his brow again. “I would
give my life for you, Sybil,” lie puffed be-
hind his silk handkerchief. Summer with
him was a time of limp collars and per-
petual face polishing. Still he had the re-
putation of being a tremendously energetic
and successful soap agent.
“I hate him!” Mrs. Dredglin swung
round and faced him resolutely. “I hate
him with all my soul!”
Berth' stretched imploring hands towards
her. “Then leave* him, my darling! Fly
with me !”
“Oh, I will! I will!” But, half-way to
the piano she wavered. “Oh, Bertie, what
will they say?”
“That you loved me!” panted he. “The
world will be lenient, my own ! It always
is when Romance triumphs over Convention.
Ah, my dear!” He gazed at her rapturously
for a moment. Then, with a startlingly
business-like gesture, he dived one hand into
a tail pocket and groped in its depths.
“Where did I put that time-table?” he
mumbled thoughtfully. Mrs. Dredglin shud-
dered and turned to the piano to hide hel*
nervousness.
They parted formally on the verandah
after arranging to meet next evening at the
junction 20 miles away. At the steps they
encountered the tired husband with his
bucket half-full of caterpillars.
“What! Going already, Storpor? You
et'ople didn’t have a very long practice this
evening, did you?”
Storpor muttered and slapped his music
r ill against his ieg. Mrs. Dredglin glanced
uneasily at the shadow with the lantern.
“No: Mr. Storpor was rather husky to-
night.”
“Storpor’s getting too fat,” said the
caterpillar-hunter judicially.
“Nonsense! How can you say such absurd
thing's !”
“Well., my dear, it’s no disgrace! Fat is
one of Nature’s provisions against old age.
And Storpor’s getting old like the rest of us.
I notice there’s more fat than fire in his
rendering of that Bedouin’s love song these
evenings. By the wav. Storpor, how are
you standing the heat this summer?”
The stout lover coughed violently. “Oh,
fairly well—fairly well!” Then, to the
wife: “ Au revoir, for the present!"
“Good —night,” faltered the stout .lady,
taking his outstretched hand and submitting
to his fervent clasp.
“Good-night, Storpor. Come up again
whi'n it’s cooler,” said the shadowy hunter.
“Er —thanks. Good-night!” Like a dis-
contented elephant, lie, bundled down the
path and disappeared snorting in the gloom.
As soon as he had gone, the stout lady
turned on her husband. “Why are you so
cruel?” she demanded hysterically. “Why
do 'am deliberately torture people?”
“I don’t!” was the simple reply.
“Yes, you do!” insisted the stout lady
fiercely. “You torture and humiliate people
in a thousand different ways! You spoke
to him as if he was positively bulging out!”
“Well” (mildly) “he does bulge a hit!"
“He doesn’t, I tell you!”
“All right: have it your own way. In
future we will regard him thin.”
“Now you’re sneering! You’re always
sneering! I believe vou’re jealous of him !”
“Yes,” said the shadow calmly. “I’m
jealous of his thinness.”
The stout lady stamped on the step. “Oh,
how provoking you are! You irritate me
beyond endurance ! Why do vou bait people
because they’re stout? Why do you do it?”
“But you said just now that he wasn’t
stout at all!”
Mrs. Dredglin emitted a half-stifled scream
of rage. “Oh, you beast! I would rather be
heaten than jeered at. Why,” she de-
manded wildly. “Why don’t you heat me?”
The shadow looked at her plump, almost
pillowy shoulders, and sighed meekly. “Be-
cause neirher of us would enjov it. my dear.
Look at the fine haul of caterpillars I got
to-night!”
But she gathered up her skirts with a
swift movement and rustled indoors from
the triumphant bucket, whispering tensely:
“I can’t bear it! I can’t b°ar it anv more!
My heart is breaking! I will go to Bertie!”
And the self-contained caterpillar hunter,
being left to himself, went swearing round
the house and executed the caterpillars by
strewing them on the ground and thrashing
them savagely with a shovel. It was an
untidy proceeding, hut he got a lot of satis-
faction out of it. For, underneath his calm,
sarcastic exterior, he was a verv wild man
indeed, and fiercely jealous of the stout
singer.
It was the next evening, and the gar-
dener was once more amone-t his shrubs
groning after caterpillars. The gardener’s
wife, who had been watch in" him furtively
from an tupstairs window, at last screwed up
her courag" and decided to make a start.
After sqbbing a little, she resolutely pow-
dered her m se. knotted her veil and went
downstairs for the very last time. She
walked lingeringiv down the garden path—
for she had a whole hour to put in before
the train which was to bear her to perspir-
ing Bertie would rush into the station at
the end of the street. The unconscious <mr-
d«ner did not l<mk up as she approached.
When she arrived opposite him. she stopped
(Continued on next page.)


ARE YOUR KIDNEYS WEAK?
Weak Kidneys Cause Backache, Gravel, Urinary
Disorders, Dropsy, Lumbago and Rheumatism.
Every moment of your life, poisonous waste keeps
getting into the blood from your food, and from the
wear and tear of the body. But the kidneys filter it
out and keep the blood pure.
But when the kidneys are weak, they cannot do
their work thoroughly. Then some of the p isonous
waste gets left in the blood, and you begin to feel
dull, heavy and drowsy; your back is bad, your head
aches; dropsical swellings appear in the ankles or
under the eyes, and the heart becomes affected. You
may get rheumatic twinges, lumbago attacks, or dizzy
spells. The bladder acts too often, or there is pain
in seeking relief. There may be sediment, gravel, or
cloudiness of the water.
When the kidneys are ill they need a kidney medi-
cine—ordinary medicines won’t do—they cannot
cleanse and relieve the kidneys. Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills act quickly and directly upon the
kidneys and bladder—help the kidneys to filter the
mischievous kidney poisons out of the blood and
dispose of them through the urinary system. Doan’s
Pills give the best results of any kidney medicine
known.
» Every
picture
tells a
story."
%
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold
at 2/9 per bottle (six bottles 15/3),
at all Chemists and Stores, or from
Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
CURED TO STAY CURED.
SYDNEY TESTIMONY.
ONE YEAR CURED.
Mrs. T. Johnson, 115 Bedford Street, Newtown, Sydney,
says:— “For years I was troubled with a weak, aching
back and disordered kidneys. No one has any idea of the
awful pain I suffered from backache; I could get no rest
from it day or night. Every movement caused me increased
torture, and I could not even turn in my bed on account
of the terrible, racking pains in the small of my back. Ibe
secretions were disordered, being thick and cloudy, and
contained a brick-dust-like deposit. My limbs swelled to
almost twice their usual size, and this, I knew, was a sign
of dropsy. I tried all sorts of kidney medicines, but none
of them did me any good. One day I saw T Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills advertised, so 1 got some,' and three bottles
of these grand pills banished the pain from my back, regu-
lated the secretions, and made me feel a different woman.
My cure has proved permanent, as I have had no return
of Kidney trouble since Doan’s Backache Kidney Tills cured
me 12 months ago.”
TEN YEARS CURED.
Mrs. Andrew McDonald, 71 Denison Street, Balmain,
says :—“For three years my husband was bad with a lame
back. All the time he did no work, his back was so crippled.
He always reckoned it was caused by the kidneys. He was
sometimes free of pain, but at other times he could scarcely
get out of bed, feeling, he would say, as if he were gone in
the loins. Air. P. Smith, of Cheltenham Street, who had
been cured by Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, was always
telling him to get them, and he did get some at last. These
pills soon put him on his feet, and he was able to go to
work, and has kept at it regularly ever since. My son also
used them for severe backache, and two bottles stopped the
pain.”
Mrs. McDonald confirms the above: —“Ten years ago i
made the above statement, and I am now pleased to bring
it up to date by telling you that my husband is still quite
free of every symptom of kidney trouble. My son’s cure
was also permanent, for he has never had backache since.
J
Backache
Kidney
f
and stared at his bent back. It was abso-
lutely expressionless. At last, “I’m going
out!” she cried in a voice which sounded
like a tolling bell —to herself.
He groaned, straightened up cautiously,
and displayed an immense green captive.
“There’s a beauty for you ! There must he
a plague of them about.”
“Good-bye!” she cried, and rushed out
the gate.
“Good-bye,” he echoed in his preoccupied
way, and went on with his job.
In a minute or so she was hack, wild-eyed
and desperate. “I am going out! Do you
understand? Did you hear me?”
“Eh?”
“I say I am going out! Good-?>j/e/”
He met her eye wonderingly. “Yes, I
heard you. You’ll find me here when you
come back.”
She rushed away frantically, telling her-
self that he couldn’t possibly love her. Else
how could he go on in that cold, brutal way?
The station clock gnawed through the
hour at last. With a heavy, premonitory
rumble and a long, hoarse hoot, the hot and
heavy express locomotive rushed importantly
into the station and came to a standstill,
panting and dripping oil. The stout lady
clambered into a first-class carriage won-
dering tremulously why the engine reminded
her so of Bertie. Being of an incurably
romantic temperament, she decided happily
that it must be because it was to bear her
to him. She felt she could have kissed the
great, strong masterful engine. What could
prevail against it? What could stop it
from taking her to Bertie? Nothing, of
course!
As the train moved out, she glanced
guiltily at the washhouse chimney—all that
was visible of the house from the line. Never
again would she warn the girl not to be
wasteful with the wood. Then the engine
broke into a furious gallop, and she went
clattering furiously across country. For a
quarter of an hour the express skated round
curves and roared down hills and along
levels. Then the long climb to the junction
was entered upon, and the great locomotive
in front started to puff furiously and crawl.
The carriages clacked monotonously and
crawled after it for awhile. Suddenly there
was a furious scurry of wheels, some hard
swearing by the engine and a great clash-
ing of buffers. Then the whole caravan
started to slip gently backwards downhill.
The suddenly-applied brakes checked the
retreat with a series of unpleasant jolts.
Presently the engine took a deep breath
and tried again. It didn’t succeed. By this
time, heads were protruding from every
compartment window.
“What’s the matter, guard?” asked a
high-pitched, quarrelsome voice.
The steady crunching of heavy boots on
the stones of the permanent wav ceased Dr
a second. “Swarm of caterpillars on the
line, sir.”
Caterpillars again ! The stout ladv leant
pleadingly from her window. “Guard ! Will
we catch the train at the junction, do you
think?”
“I’m afraid not, mum. This is a stiff
bank here, and there isn’t any engine to help
us.” He went on to hold a useless consulta-
tion with the engine-driver.
They got into the junction an hour behind
their scheduled time. The other train had
fled south long ago, and the platform wore
a desolate appearance. The stout lady
bundled out and attacked the gold-laced
station-master. lie, after inquiring her name,
thrust a soiled envelope into her hand and
fled. This is what she read in the shade of
the empty drinking tank: —
My Own,- SUNSET JUNCTION, 4.25.
Why are you not here? Must go on though it
causes me agony. Cannot break journey. All our
future happiness hangs on those soap agencies. What
has happened? Wire to hotel.
Till the stars grow old, my Precious.
BERTIE.
The stout lady rose up and pursued the
S.M. once more. He was a slow man, and
she soon captured him. . “There’s a down
train in 15 minutes, mum. l r es, you can
send a telegram from here.” He gave her
pen, ink and forms, and escaped again. She
tore up 14 forms before she got her tidings
into what she considered a concise, non-
committal message. This she lodged, and
then sat on a shady seat and jabbed holes
in the gravel of the down platform, while a
boy porter amused himself by dragging milk-
cans about.
It was dark when she arrived back at the
front gate she had left for ever some three
hours before. A golden lozenge of light hov-
ered and danced sedately in the garden. She
went in and slammed the gate. Her shadow
husband grew suddenly' out of a rosebush.
“Back again!” he groaned, pressing the
small of his back with his disengaged hand.
Ilis wife amazed him by- bursting into
tears. “Why do you taunt me?” she sobbed.
“I’m not taunting you,” he protested
dazedly. “I’m not taunting you, woman!
I’m just collecting caterpillars !”
She rushed inside, passionately assuring
herself that Bertie —who, of course, under-
stood her thoroughly—would soon return
and take her away. But Bertie never did.
After reading over her curt telegram 43
times, he came to the conclusion that “Foi’-
give me. Caterpillars again.” Could only
mean that she had decided at the last minute
to stay with her husband. So —thoroughly
misunderstanding her—he went fuming off
to England, where he met and married a
musical widow who liked the sincere wav he
rierspired when he sang “The Bedouin Love
Song.”
KODAK.
How They Did It.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SYDNEY is a nail-right place. You can
take it from me that Thargomindnh
an’ Hungerford don’t give ye the
faintest idea. When I was down there last
Easter I’d Billy McGuire with me the first
two days, an’ he knows Sydney as well as
he does the horse-paddock. We didn’t get
bushed more’n once or twice, an’ the nex’
day I went out on me own.
I was standin’ at the corner o’ King-
street. an’ a cove comes along an arst me if
I could direct him to the post office. This
was right in to me, for I’d just come from
there, an’ I showed it to ’im about two chains
away. “Strike me,” says ’e, “we country
blokes must seem mugs to you towniesJ”
When I told him I wasn’t a Sydney cove Be
wudden believe me.
I always did say Jimmy Dixon kep’ the
most stylish rig-outs north of the Darling.
This bloke came from Narromine, an’ he
had to see if there was a letter for him from
his old man. We got yarnin’, an’ the cove
went in for his letters, an’ got a couple.
One of them had been lyin’ there, an’ had
15 quid in it that he’d lent to a mate at
Warrego once. lie was real glad to get the
sugar, a tenner an’ a fiver, ’cause it would
let him pay an aunt of his seven quid he
owed her up in Surry Hills.
We went an’ had a couple of beers, an’
took a tram up tc his aunt’s place, but she
was out, an’ only her two daughters was in.
Nice girls they were. Y'ou wudden ha’ took
’em for sisters if ye hadn’t a-known, an’
they were so pleased to see me mate, hug-
gin’ an’ kissin’ him all over the shop. I got
on pretty well with ’em, too. One of ’em
wanted to give us a drink, but the other, a
shy piece, said she was frightened for what
Aunty would say if we touched her stuff.
So I sent for some.
Beer is pretty dear in Surry Hills. It
cost me five bob for two bottles.
Then the old lady came in, an’ I was in-
terdooced, an’ the cove offered her the ten-
ner, but she only had a fiver an’ a few bob.
I would have changed the note but I had
only six notes an’ three quid an’ a bob or
two, so I changed him his fiver, an’ the old
lady shouted.
Then the cove an’ the other girl an’ their
aunty went away to see a cousin, an’ the shy
tart stopped with me. I don’t know how it
was, but I got muggin’ her about, an’ she
took on dreadful. You’ve no idea how shy
she was.
I offered her the fiver I got from her
cousin if she’d let up on it, hut she wudden
take it. At last she said she’d take a quid
or two to buy a mementer, and I passed her
three quid, an’ promised not to kiss her
again. Then her aunt and Billy an’ his
cousin came back, an’ I got ready to go.
Billy was goin’ to put the balance of his
sugar on a horse for the Ding-dong Handi-
cap at 15 to one. Spitsure was its name, I
think. He wanted to put a bit on for me.
so. I offered him the fiver, but he reckoned
he couldn’t get 13 quid on without frighten-
ing the bookies —he was splitting up the
eight quid with the three ladles an’ himself
-—an’ a tenner was the most he reckoned lie
could use. So I gave him 25 bob, although
I’d ha’ liked the lot on at the odds.
I was goin’ to see him the next day, which
was the day before the race, an’ get him to
nut another bit on for me, only I got run
in that night for shovin’ a bad note on the
cove at the pub.
The swine Billy lent the brass to paid him
back with a cronk fiver !
The magistrate was a suspicious old mre.
He said I’d been took down, so he’d dismiss
the case provided I cleared back home at
once
Gripes ! I had to hoof, it most of the way
because every bean I had excop' the notes
which they said was cronk was the twenty-
five bob on Spitsure. who ran last.
D. H. SOUTER.
The Prism of Tophet,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Occult persons declare that they are able r-,
colored emanation surrounding men ami se<> a
and that the size and tint of the aura‘u an °eS
indication of the character. txac '
'XXT IIERR the su lphurous winds are
V W lifting
The corners of Tophet’s lid,
The souls come down from their sifting
With never a failing hid,
And the tall cook-devils toiling
With fork and with flaming rake
Gather them in to the broiling
In the spume of the brimstone lake.
Like Orient gems that cluster
In the crown of a first-grade king
Are the spirit colors that muster
To the red-hot welcoming;
For every sin has its fashion,
And every crime has its hue,
From the crimson that throbs in passion
To the lying that burns in blue.
Yellow as daffodil dawning
The person who gathered our gold
When our young clothes went to the
pawning,
And the world looked shame on the old
And purple as (Ja'sar's trousers
That shone in the sunlight strong
Are the souls of the deep earousers
Who looked on the wine too long.
Green are the w T arlike persons
Who jabbed at each other’s throats—
Ajaxes, wild McPhersons,
And people with various coats
Of arms which the herald mentions
As things of resplendent sheen;
In spite of their red intentions,
Their souls are a viv.d green.
Sometimes in opaline glory
A Herod may fiutter through,
With a mixed and curious story
Made plain in his varied hue;
Or a terrible, bad. black hero
Who took in his crimes delight,
Will blend like Judas or Nero
All sins in a ray of white.
Rut we who have only taken
The easy and primrose wav
Ha v<> our colors mixed and shaken
Till we look but a smoky grey;
A sort of a cloudy blending
That fails of one big, bright sin
Gives us a rayless ending
When the fiendkins rake us in.
When the sulphurous winds are lifting
The corners of Tophet’s lid.
And the doomed come down from their
sifting
With never a failing hid.
Our own little souls that smash on
The thoughts of the deeds men do
Are somewhat out of the fashion
When the large, bright lights leap
through.
N.S.W.
PAT O'MAOR[?].


W estinghcmse
Oil Engine
For STATIONARY
and MARINE
PURPOSES
'
From 7 to 40 H.P.
No Carburetter or Vaporiser.
No Ignition Apparatus.
Makes the following claims upon
your attention -
1 It uses cheap lamp oil (such as kero-
sene), and other residuals.
2 The oil i s injected directly into the
cylinder, thus dispensing with unre-
liable and inefficient vaporisers.
lt isj very simple in construction, there
being no electric ignition or other
complicated mechanism.
4 Its speeds are such that electric generators
and centrifugal pumps may be coupled
direct.
5 No skilled labor is required, the supply
of fuel and lubricant being all the
attention necessary.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM
The Westinghouse Brake Company of Australasia Ltd.,
GEORGE STREET, CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
New Zealand Agents: Philips & Pike, Wellington.
The High-water Mark
oodworking and
Sawmilling Machinery
BOUNDERS.
Ballbearings throughout, with consequent
Reduction in Power to Drive.
No Bearing Troubles.
High Speed and Large Output.
"WE CARRY STOCKS OF PLANERS, MOULDERS, JOINTERS, RESAWS, Etc.
WE INVITE INSPECTION.
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
lB9 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
f
Economy Tiering Machine.
A machintf for stacking all goods to
any height limited by size of machine «
For Stacking V/00l and Skins in Woolsheds.
For Stacking Stores for Storekeepers.
For Stacking any goods in a quick, cheap and
effective way.
Parsons Trading Co.,
write for full particulars to 340 Kent St., Sydney. Equitable Buildings, Melbourne.
THE LONE HAND
A
Monthly Guide for everything
Australian.
6d
A RARE/OPPORTUNITY
TO PURCHASE A
FIRST-CLASS ENGINE at a LOW FIGURE
SPECIE ICAriON.— Horizontal “SAMSON” Benzine Four Cycle Engine
fatted with low tension battery ignition, fuel tank and piping, water
cooling tank and piping, exhaust muffler and piping, two flywheels
and driving pulle*y. ’
EVERY ENGINE GUARANTEED.
We will sell for cash the following sizes to the above specification:—
2- Horse Power 7 SAMPSON ” Engine . £44 lOs.
3- Horse Power “SAMPSON” Engine ... ... £5O lOs.
4- Horse Power “SAMPSON ” Engine £5O i os !
8-Brake Horse Power “ SAMPSON ” Engine £BO lOs.
ENGINES DELIVERED F.O.R. SYDNEY.
FRANK SAUNDERS LTD.,
232 Clarence St., Sydney. „
’PHONE: 6748 CITY.
As A Family Medicine
nothing has yet been put before the public to be compared with Beecham’fl
Pills. For over half a century this medicine has been an easy First Favourite
in countless households, and the name and fame of Beecham’s Pills have
spread all over the world. The reason for the enormous popularity of this
remedy is not far to seek. Experience has shown that there is nothing better
for derangements of the stomach and digestive organs generally. Taken in
accordance with directions, Beecham’s Pills give quick relief, stimulate the
organs to healthy action and have a tonic effect upon the whole system.
They are compounded of the best and purest ingredients and there are very
few people who would not feel better for an occasional dose of
Beecbam’s Pills
If you have not tried them and have any doubt as to their real value and
efficacy, get a box and judge for yourself. You will find Beecham’s Pills a
valuable aperient and unequalled in regulating the stomach, bowels, liver,
and kidneys, and restoring the powers of digestion. A periodical dose will
enable you to keep well and “fit,” ready for work or play. By eliminating
impurities from the system, Beecham’s Pills increase the appetite, promote
assimilation of food and establish good health. No household should ever
be without a box. Many thousands have proved the worth of Beecham’s Pills
and there is no doubt at all that they
Arc Tbe Favourite Remedy.
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
. . . AT . . .
THE BANKING HOUSE, 228 Pitt Street,
Opposite PALACE THEATRE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LENDS MONEY ON ALL SECURITIES, including Furniture,
FROM 10 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
FRED. McWILLIAM, Manager
HIGH-SPEED TENONING MACHINE.
ƒ
WAVERLEY CARS
The
Waver ley
is British Built.
J2/14 h.p.,
4-cyl. Bosch
Magneto,
Zenith Carburetter,
9ft. Wheel Base.
£350 Nett
The Doctor’s Ideal Car.
Write for Catalogues.
The Famous INDIAN Motor Cycle,
Twin-cyl., 7 h.p., Free Engine Clutch,
Two-Speed Gear.
Metz 22
4-cyl., 22 h.p.,
Friction Drive,
W ater-Cooled.
The Finest Runabout in
the World. The
Famous Hill Climber.
£lB5 nett.
Sole Agents:
-BROWN 8 HELLICAR LTD.,
375 Kent Street,
SYDNEY.
CUTS
on
HORSES
FLINT’S medicated OIL
Is without doubt the most surprisingly prctnpt cure for Saddle Calls, Cuts,
Fistula or Broken Knees on horses. It* possesses the rare merit of healing
without leaving any'.blemish, the hair growing in the natural colour. This
distinguishes Flint’s Oil from every other preparation. Price 35., from most
stores throughout Australia, and procurable through any wholesale house
such as Elliott Bros., Sydney and Brisbane, or from
C. B. FLINT, Manufacturing Chemist, ADELAIDE.
A“Waterous Band Eliminates
Waste Timber and Time.
There’s no waste with a “Waterous” Band Mill. It saws the
timber fast—for it’s a high-speed, modern machine—but it also
makes for greater economy in working. The carriage is a type
that ensures the logs being accurately sawn; the head blocks have
a taper adjustment and a reliable rack and pinion.
We’ve an expert on our staff who will gladly give you the
the benefit of his 30 years’ experience in Canadian, Australian and
Continental methods of cost-cutting, if you will but write and ask
him. Do it the first chance you get.
We also stock Garrett’s Portable Steam Engines, Circular Saw
Benches, Panel Planers, Tenoning Machines, Spindle Moulders, and
all Wood-working Machines.
CASH OR TERMS.
T. M. (SOOPRLL & CO. Ltd.
Universal Machinery Merchants,
303-5 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Fire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call arid inspect.
MACK LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
REFUSE DESTRUCTION.
COMBINED ELECTRIC LIGHTING and REFUSE DESTRUCTOR INSTALLATIONS
are now proved to be the most economical for Electric Lighting of
Towns.
The “Keenan” Patent Destructor
embodies the latest patents in connection with Refuse Destruction.
Estimates Furnished on Application to the Australian Agency—
T. K. ST€AN€S, 37-43 Pitt St., Sydney
Fireproof Buildings of
Fibro-Cment (Asbestos) Sheets
at the cost of Weatherboards.
Suitable for Dwellings, Theatres, Halls,
Warehouses, etc.
Timber is dear, so is labor. You only require about
three-fourths the quantity of studding and labor for a
building of Fibro-Cement.
LOOK AT THE SAVING THAT IS MADE.
Fibro-Cement is made of best Portland cement reinforced
with Asbestos.
FIRE, HEAT, ROT and ANT PROOF.
Easily erected by ordinary, carpenter. Outlasts t in’or,
iron, or lath and plas er.
CONSTANTLY IMPROVES WITH LAPSE OF TIME.
Supplied also in Slates for rooting.
Write for Lithos and Catalog L to sole importers—
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
A Tonic
of
Medicinal
Value.
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS
Buy
Whole
Bottles.
BLOW OFF
ARRANGEMENT
DISCHARGE
>- VALVE
- SPINDLE
~~ GUIDE TUBE
INLET
FLOAT
VANES
CLEANING]-
DOOR -->t \
V 1322
“SENTINEL”
High Pressure STEAM TRAPS
FOR STEAM PRESSURES to 250 lbs. /
SPECIAL FEATURES—Has Renewable Valve and Seat , Regrinds its Valve after
each Discharge, Preserves its Tightness even with Gritty Steam.
Over 40 in Use in Ultimo Power House alone. As supplied to Railway, Water and
Sewerage fcioard, Mines, Shipbuilders, etc. SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
:v->
82 PITT ST., SYDNEY;
And at MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, PERTH.
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRON FOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Valves, Pumps, Pluming,
Patent “ Nelyambo ” Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Fluming, Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought Iron Work ,
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
ON, FRANKI, LTD.,
WARE
307-11 KENT
380 BOURK]
, SYDNEY.
STREET, MELBOURNE.
PERFECTA CONDUIT CO., LTD.
SCOTT & MOUNTAIN, LTD.
VERITY’S, LTD.
ENGINEERING INSTRUMENTS, LTD.
BERRY SKINNER, LTD.
EVERETT, EDGCUMBE, LTD.
NATIONAL TELEWRITER CO
HAGGIE BROS.
SOLE: AGENTS:
PREMIER ACCUMULATOR CO.
MEDWAY’S SAFETY LIFT CO.
UNION CABLE CO.
kt n nmciv
WALKER, HORROCKS LTD,
WIIIPP & BOURNE
DANIEL ADAMSON & CO.
“ KNEW ” FILTER S
MONARCH VACUUM
PREMIER VACUUM CLEANERS
BLACKMAN
11 1 wi i
FOR THE PROSPECTOR.
HORSE-POWER HOISTING WHIM
The simplicity, facility for easy transport, and relative cheapness of these little Hoists
commend them to the Miner requiring a small, efficient Winding Plant. Designed principal!}
for Mining: purposes, it will raise a bucket with 500-70011). sixty l to seventy feet per minute.
The Hoisting Drum is absolutely under the control of the man ait the shaft, and can be thrown
in and out of gear, and he can land or lower the bucket on the brake as safely and convenient!}
as by a steam-power hoist. An automatic safety device is attached to the end of the drum to
prevent accident, the dog always being in gear when the bucket is being raised.
Drum carries 500 feet or more of % Steel Wire Rope.
Total Shipping weight is 12001 b., but no one piece weighs over 2501 b.
If you are interested, allow us to send you full descriptive Circular, with Prices.
MAKERS :
PARKE & LACY COMPAHY LIMITED,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants, GO CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
BRUCE PEEBLES & CO. LTD.
EDINBURGH
High-Class Alternating & Direct Current
MOTORS Always in Stock.
N. CUTHRIDGE, LTD., & Melbourne
Brisbane
Representatives—
C. G. FAISME, London Bank Chambers, Brisbane
BlocK shows 3-Phase Alternator similar to sets now on order
(1) for Sydney Woollen M 11s, (3) for Ararat, Vic.
$
.
f
1
§
-•« ;
