

THE WHISKY OF MANY MERITS.
m
Machinery Merchants,
Mining 1 and Contractors’ Plant,
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc.
107 Kent street, Sydney,
Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
25 . ... . j C ,4 /I Din rife alwfl-V C flVflllflhlfi.
Sal e sKgXaSrefe gnEßraßi
rts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always avadable.
On all Classes of SECURITY,
bills discounted.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
N.S.W. MONT DE PIETE D. & I. CO., LTD.,
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite National Amphitheatre. • Telephone: No. 225 Central.
And at
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S/
215=217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, Ceneral Manager.
I
-w -.in imuiSIAWII 1190d30 313U30
cftiliUji!! l ! 2 i! l tjjjghJJwß
no:
tA.izt.rr.
-sflss-
jjadley’s Orient Hotel
COLORED POST-CARDS, VJ .
Weston—“WEEKLY WORRIES.” S„
o£ six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin News-
paper Co., 214 George Street, Sydney.
by Harry J.
LEATHER BELTING
Guauantkkd
C. Ludowmi & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
hAMSacBACON
5.H.8
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
32 RECIPES
for preparing a variety of the most
dainty Desserts with
HANSEN’S
will be forwarded, Post Free to Any
Address, on application to
T. 8., Box 577, C.P.0., Sydney.
PALMER CORD TYRES
are specially constructed to ensure Long Service.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO.,
SYDIVEY—MELBOURNE—JSEWCASTLE
m BECK’S LAGER BEER
sK
CV 'V*--
-L\-S
i»-'v . 's- ..-«,■ >
s^“
Bungalows lend themselves to White
11
treatment.
Ajr.T.tv. shnrp of Svdnev Harbor, in the pretty Suburbs of our other Capitals, in our Country
Tows everywhere? AVHITE MALTHOID will help considerably to give Distinction
WoiTie The effect of the white roof is wonderful amidst foliage, and the added Comfort which
the Home. JLne eneci oi Asbestos coating protects the home from the extremes of heat ana
Dit he S p^ide g a P AVHlTE MALTHOID Roof on your new house.
Booklets and suggestions for the asking.
Chains House, The Paraffine Paint Co. Sydney.
D. S. EVANS, Australasian Manager.
Agencies Everywhere.
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T -
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T?
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
■■
Choose wisely your Sheep Shearing Machinery.
You will profit largely in efficiency and minimum cost
of upkeep if your machinery bears the name “Moffat-
Virtue.”
Catalogue “0.A.” is what you want.
Write for it.
!ojfat-Virlue£H
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
352 Kent St. (near King st.), Sydney.
HELIDON SPA
The efficacy of HEUDON SPA lies in its STARKEYS LTD., Agents,
solvent power and cleansing properties . phuhp st., Sydney, and Redfem
The Bulletin
V01.34.—N0. 1756.]
[Thursday, October 9, 1913.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW BOORS
Wiae, Hob. B. R.: The Making of the Australian
Commonwealth. 9s (4d.)
Radford, L. B. (D.D.): Ancient Heresies in Modern
Dress, ss. (2d.)
Forde, J. L.: The Story of the Bar of \ ictona, os.
•Wilson! Woodrow: The New Freedom, 3s. 6d. (3d.)
(Postages shown in parrvt lies's.)
Sadlier, J.: Recollections of a Victorian Police
Officer (illustrated"), ss. (2d.)
Westervelt, VV. D.: Legends of Ma-ui. A Demi-god
of Polynesia (illustrated), 3s. 6d. (2d.)
Harris, W. K.: Outback in Australia (illustrated),
6s. (4d.) .
Bone. Oertrude: Women of the Country, 3s. (2d.)
At GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROP’T’Y, LTD., 258 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
FOR. THE VOICE! THROAT! LUNGS!
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic. Contains no Cocaine
or other poisonous drug. Suitable for old and young.
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
Bronchitis, Influenza and the
Prevention of Consumption.
Unlike Cough Medicines “Enmentho! Ju-
jubes” do not interfere with the Digestion;
on the contrary, they have a beneficial effect,
as their Antiseptic properties prevent ab-
normal fermentation of the food, and thus
they prove helpful for sufferers from Indiges-
tion and Dyspepsia when taken after meals.
The Lancet says: “Proved to be as effec-
tive bactericidally as is Creosote.”
YO^
ON
"t&ZSA
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes are sold at Chemists and Stores, tins t/6-
Forwarded post free on receipt of stamps by the Manufacturers.
Co., Ltd.,
Hudson’s Eumenthol Chemical
rs Box 1520 G.P.O. 17 York Street, SYDNEY^
The Red Page
A Futurist in Literature
Gerald Stanley Lee may be labelled the
first Futurist in English Literature, ('roialx
(Methuen), “a study of the genius of de-
mocracy, and of the fears, desires and ex-
pectations of the people,” is a remarkable
book, inchoate, incoherent, rhetorical, lavish,
redundant, high-pitched, yet stimulating be-
cause of the author’s sincerity, and convinc-
ing in spite of the author’s fervid journalese.
For Gerald Stanley Lee is busy building
worlds —the new worlds of the future. He
writes exclusively in the future tense,
which, he aptly remarks, Golumbus dis-
covered. He is a prose Whitman with a
message. And being an American he adver-
tises his message, though exactly what is
his particular message it is somewhat diffi-
cult to discover in his 600 pages of uplift
and boost. Rut there are plenty of mes-
sages to choose from : he is lavish in ideas.
Perhaps his chief theme is his exposition
that Being Good pays. Not only does it pay
in business, provided you advertise your
honesty cleverly enough, but: —
Any man who can and will to-day think
out new and unlooked-for ways of being
good, can get ahead, in the United States
and England, of practically everybody....
When the inventors in our machine age get
to work on goodness in the way they are
getting to work on other things, tilings will
happen to goodness that the vague, sweet
saints of 2000 years have never dreamed of
yet.
But people must learn the proper way of
being good; and the proper way is not to
tell them the things they mustn't do. That
was where Moses fell in.
Possibly the main reason why there are
so many wicked people, or seem to be. in
proportion, among the Hebrews in the Old
Testament, is that Moses was a lawyer, and
that he tried to start off a great people with
the Ten Commandments—that is, a list of
nine things they must never do any more,
and of one that they must. Moses' idea
when he started his government, the idea of
getting people concentrated on not getting
Concentrated on nine things, was not con-
ducive to goodness.... It was not merely
because the seventh commandment was nega-
tive, but because it was abstract, that David
found it so hard to keep. If the seventh
commandment (like Uriah’s wife) could
have had deep blue eyes or could have been
beautiful to look upon. and. on a particular
day in a particular place, could have been
bathing in a garden. David would have
found keeping it a very different matter.
But not only does Lee believe in the cash
value of goodness—he points out that the
good trust will eat up the bad trust, the
decent business man will get decent em-
ployees and decent customers, and thus
wipe out his competitors that do not pay
fair wages or give fair value, the trust run
by mechanical-minded men. w r ho take the
easiest and laziest course in business —that
of making all the money they can, will be
beaten by tbe trust in the hands of strong
men, men unwilling to slump back into mere
money-making, and occupied in weaving into
their business several strands of value at
once, making things and making money and
making men together—not only does this
futurist fervently believe that, but with
equal conviction he believes that all men —
even business-men —wish to be good, and will
be good as soon as they acquire a little
imagination. He insists that Fat is begin-
ning to melt, because he finds that a large
stomach interferes with business.
For this is a new world of ours, a world
in which new methods are busy creating new
kinds and new sizes of men. He foretells
the Superman in business. This new world
is a world of crowds, and it is rapidly evolv-
ing the crowd-man.
We live in crowds. We get our living in
crowds. We are amused in herds. Civilisa-
tion is a list of cities. The value of a piece
of land is the number of footsteps passing
by it in 24 hours. The value of a railroad
is the number of people near it who cannot
keep still.
We are still old-fashioned enough to be
born one at a time, but we are educated in
litters, and we do our work in the world in
herds and gangs. Even the upper classes do
their work in gangs, and with overseers and
little crowds called committees. Our latest
idea consists in putting parts of a great
many different men together to make one
great one—forming a committee to make a
man of genius.
A man’s destiny is the way the crowd of
his ancestors ballot for his life.
The newspaper is the mass machine, the
crowd thinker.
The strike —an invention for making
crowds think.
Imagination about the future is going to
make the next few hundred years an organic
part of every man’s life to-day.
With the machines I have taken a whole
planet to me for my feet and for my hands.
I gesture with the earth. I hand up oceans
to my God.
The great determining secret of modern
life —the niastery of man over his machines.
Man, at the present moment, with all his
new machines about him. is engaged in be-
coming as self-controlled, as self-expressive,
with his new machines, with his wireless
telegraph arms and his railways legs, as he
is with his flesh and blood ones. ... It is
never the machines that are dead. It is only
the mechanical-minded men that are dead.
Machinery is the subconscious mind of the
world.
Crowds think in great man, or they think
in simple, big. broadly-drawn events, or
words of one syllable; like coal strikes....
Crowds speak in heroes.
Rockefeller became rich by co-operating
with other rich men to exploit the public.
The man of the immediate future is going
to get rich, as rich as he cares to be. by co-
operating not merely with his competitors—
which is as far as Rockefeller got—but by-
co-operating with the people. It is a mere
matter of social imagination, of seeing what
succeeds most permanently, and honorably,
of putting what has been called "goodness"'
and what is going to be called "Business”
together. In other words, social imagina-
tion is going to make a man gravitate
toward mutmal interest or co-operation,
which is the new and inevitable level of
efficiency and success in business. Success
is being transferred from men of millionaire
genius to men of social and human genius.
Jt
We are to be saved, you see, by our busi-
ness men. Our preachers have lost their
job. Soul saving in cathedrals is not run
on business lines. Of course, "Wickedness
in this world is not going to stop with a
jerk. It is “merely being better distributed.”
The Golden Rule, properly advertised, will
do the trick. The Crowd has come to see
that the present owners of business are
incompetent, because they have treated labor
as the natural enemy of capital; the present
workers are similarly incompetent to con-
trol or manage industry because they treat
capital as the natural enemy of the
workers. What the Crowd is asking is:—
Arc there any mentally competent business
firms at all in the world, any firms whose
owners and laborers have thought out a way
of not fighting?
It will be the job of the next Pierpout
Morgan to find out for us who the com-
petent employers are —-and finance the com-
panies that 'show the largest genius for
building the mutual interests of capitalists,,
employees and the public inextricably into
one body.
Goodness in business or daily life, in com-
mon world-running or world housekeeping,
is. by an implacable crowd process, working
slowly out of the hands of the wrong men
into the hands of the right ones.
And this process will be helped along by-
Lee’s delightful idea of a Brain-Trust.
One of the next things that is going to
happen is that the managing and creating
minds of the world to-day are going to
organise, are going to see suddenly their
real power and use it. The brains are about
to have, as labor and capital already have,
a class consciousness. I would not claim
that there is going to be an international
strike of the brains of the world, but it
will not be long before the managing class,
as a class, will be organised so that they
can strike if they want to.... The Artists
or Organisers and Managers of business are
in a position to make the millionaires see
how little money they can make without them
even in a few days. Where hand-labor
would have to strike for weeks and months
to prove its value, brain labor would have
to strike hours and days. This is what is
going to be done in modern business in one
business at a time, the brains insisting in
each firm upon full control. Then, of course,
the firms that have the brains in most full
control will drive the firms in which brains
are in less control out of competition. Then
brains will spread from one business to
another. The Managers. Artists and Organ-
isers of the world will have formed at last a
Brain Syndicate, and they will. . . .determine
the terms on which all men —all men who
have no brains to put with their money —
shall be allowed to have the use of theirs.
Then they will act. Under our present
regime money hires men ; under the regime
of the Brain Syndicate men will hire money.
The millionaires are going to be seen stand-
ing with their money-bags and their little
hats in their hands, like office-boys asking
for positions for their money, before the
doors of the really serious and important
men.... Capitalists will expect as a matter
of course to be looked over and to be hired
in a gyeat business enterprise as carefully
as laborers are being hired now.
■J*
The apostle himself is taking a hand in
curing the business man. He is going to
vote with his money.
1 will vote with my entire income for the
kind of employers I want, for the kind of
employers who can earn and deserve and
enjoy and keep tin* kind of salesmen and
saleswomen i choose to do business with. I
will take my trade away from the big em-
ployers who think that I want shoddy goods,
or who think that I am willing to trade
with saleswomen who would let an employer
impose upon them, saleswomen that he
thinks he can afford to impose upon.
And he will tell the business men his
intention in the language they have studied
most —in money.... and by trading some-
where else. 11is gospel is a practical one —
that of hard cash. And. really, that seems
the most practical way of telling the foolish
business man that goodness; pays.
There is a real purpose behind Gerald
Stanley Bee’s paradoxes. But. for the critic
of literature, he is chiefly interesting as the
first Futurist. The class of mind that is
thinking in continents and in centuries is
the class of mind that will rule this world,
the Superman in being. The pace of pro-
gress is so swiftly accelerating, in geomet-
rical proportion, that the Conservative is
being crowded out. The world is sweeping
on. in charge of the croiyd that live in the
future tense, tire crowd time will do tilings.
The new kinds and new sizes of men are
almost here. That, we think, is the revela-
tion of Gerald Stanley Lee. Perhaps the
message of the first Futurist in literature
will be better interpreted if we add a mis-
cellaneous collection of his fervid, haphazard
pronouncements: —•
J*
Christianity has not been invented yet.
What was invented 2000 years ago was the
spirit of Christianity.
Sometimes I think that history as a
study, or particularly as a habit of mind,
ought to be partitioned off ,and not allowed
to people in general to-day. Our modern
life is not an historian's problem ; it is' an
inventor’s problem. The historian can
stand by and can be consulted.
I have sometimes wondered if even
Christ, if He had not died in His Sol’d
year, made His great dare for the world on
the cross early, would not have stopped be-
lieving so magnificently in other people at
about 40 or 45 or so, and would not have
spent the rest of Ilis days in railing at
them, and in being very bitter and helpless
and eloquent about Rome and Jerusalem.
One of the most hopeful things that I
have been thinking about lately is that the
people—the ordinary people that one
meets in the streets —are beginning quite
generally to see through their millionaires,
and to see that their money almost never
really cures them.
The command has gone forth over all the
beauty and over all the art of the present
world, crowded for time and crowded for
space. “Telegraph!’’ To the nine Muses
the order dies. The epic is telescoped into
the sonnet, and tin* sonnet is compressed
into quatrains or Tabbs of poetry, and
couplets are signed as masterpieces. The
novel has come into being—several hundred
pages of crowded people in crowded sen-
tences, jostling each other to oblivion; and
now the novel, jostled into oblivion by the
next novel, is becoming the short story.
Kipling's short stories sum the situation up.
So far as skeleton <-r plot is concerned, they
are built up out of a bit of nothing put with
an infinity of Kipling; so far as meat is
concerned, they are the Liebig Beef Fxtract
of fiction, A single jar of Kipling contains
a whole herd of old-time novels lowing on a
hundred hills.
John Galsworthy out with his camera—
his beautiful, sad. foggy camera ; Arnold
Bennett stitching and stitching faithfully 24
hours a day—big. curious tapestries of little
things; H. G. Wells, with his retorts, his
experiments about him. his pots and kettles
of humanity in a great stew of steam, half-
hopeful. half-dismayed, mixing /up his great,
new', queer masses of human nature; and
G. Iv. Chesterton, divinely sw'earing, chant-
ing, gloriously contradicting, rolled lustily
through the wide, sunny spaces of His Own
Mind ; and Bernard Shaw (all civilisation
trooping by), the eternal boy, on the eternal
kerbstone of the world, threw stones.
Beatrice looked at Dante once. Ten silent
centuries began singing.
The way to lift one’s employer off one’s
back is to make one’s back so efficient that
he cannot afford to be on it.
In the older days men used to look back
for wisdom, and the practical man was the
man who spoke from expei’ience, and they
crucified the prophet. But to-day. the prac-
tical man is the man who can make the best
guess on to-morrow. A prophet in business
or politics gets a large salary n0w.... We
only crucify a prophet now if he is 100. or
200. or 500 years ahead. Even then we
would not be ap|t to crucify; w r e would
merely not use him much, except the first
25 years of him.... Most prophets have
been crucified by people : but it was not so
much because of their prophecy as because
their prophecy did not have any first 25
years in it.
•
“Bookware” :
With a superb library at hand, I have been dip-
ping into all the new cyclopedias, Meyer’s German
is the best. Done only by first-rate hack specialists.
Such are the right writers. Men of high eminence
fling a cyclopedia out of balance. Look, for in-
stance, at Swinburne's magnificently absurd paper
on Hugo in the Britannimi. The new edition of
that, however, is far better balanced than the
former. Reinach, editor of the Republique Frari-
newspaper, used to say what a nuisance even
Gambetta was, as proprietor. The first great and
immortal encyclopaedia was much thrown out of
shape. under methodical Diderot, bv brilliant
writers like Voltaire. d'Alembert and such. The
new French Grande E ncyelbpfcdie is better than any
for reading, hut inevitably too French. The excel-
lent American encyclopaedia is too American. Only
Germany can hang the whole globe down from its
chain. The great new Jewish cyclopedia and the
Catholic cyclopedia (under'Papal sanction), both
from America, are eminently fair, as, for instance,
in the Jewish article bn Christ, and the Catholic
on Pope Alexander Borgia. Higher criticism also
receives full justice. There is a paradoxical writer
who holds that Lucrezia Borgia was not a big
poisonous brunette, but a little innocent blonde.
The Jewish cyclopedia is far more Christianly ortho-
dox than the Eneyclapwdia Biblica. contributed to
by Vngiican and Presbyterian clergymen. Most
wondrous of all is the Chinese cyclopedia, in the
British Museum. With 150 big volumes, centuries
old, it sums up all human knowledge! Taken down
the Yangtse to Shanghai,- it loaded a boat.
Maeterlinck
Another biography of Maeterlinck, bv
Jethro Bithell —which sounds both Scrip-
tural and profane—appears in Scott's
"Great Writers” series. J. Bithell was the
admirable editor of the shilling volume ~f
Contemporary French Poetry. But in tin-
present volume he adds little to what the
world knows of Maurice Polydore Marie
Bernard Maeterlinck. (The flemish pro-
nunciation is Mali-ter-lee-nk.) Two points
of interest are envisaged. The first con-
cerns Maeterlinck’s literary origins; the
second is the suggestion of the catastrophe
that occurred when Maeterlinck met the
more or less eternal feminine.
/‘Over the fatalistic work of his first
period lies, it may be, the shadow of the
town he was born in... . The old citadel of
Ghent, with its dungeons, may be the pro-
totype of the castles of his dramas.” Yil-
liers de L’lsle-Adam and Jules Barbey d’
Aur evilly are quoted as having in-
fluenced Maeterlinck, and his rimeless verse
in Serves Ghaudes was written under the
inspiration of Whitman’s Leaves of Grass.
And the Pre-Raphaelites were responsible
for much. La Princesse Maleine is suffused
with pre-Raphaelism. And several of the
situations in his earlier plays are merely
Burne-Jones pictures.
No ~t we come to la femme. The Trea-
sure of the Humble was dedicated to a
Parisian opera-singer, Georgette Leblanc.
And in his dedication to Wisdom and Dex-
tiny he terms this volume her work. ‘"lt
has sufficed me to listen to your words....
There is a higher and more real collabora-
tion than that of the pen—that of thought
and example.” And in this book the earlier
yhilosophy of The Treasure of the Humble
s startlingly contradicted. Maeterlinck has
swung round to the opposite pole of
thought. His conception of the universe
ias, entirely changed. He wrote to a
friend that the mysterious seemed to have
lost a great deal of its attraction for him.
He was wrong. The mysterious was still
attracting him : but this time it had a name
—Georgette Leblanc.
“ Ardiane and Blue-Heard was written
under the direct inspiration, and probably
collaboration, of Mme Leblanc, whose ideas,
as expressed in her novel. Le Glioia- de la
Vie , are emphasised in the second act.
which, apart from its doctrine, is beautiful.”
The woman was getting her hand in. In
Monna \ anna she took charge of Maeter-
linck's soul. Out with all his mysticism:
in with the theatrical! “Why here was a
real play! A play in the theatrical sense,
with action, attempted murder, conflict, ten-
sion. ‘honor.’ and all the rest of it A
nlav with a situation which might have
been written specially for that dear old
ladv. Mrs. Grundy; a situation which
makes a license for its performance quite
out of the question in Mrs. Grundy’s Eng-
land.” It had been special!:' written for the
woman. Mme. Leblanc makes her ddbut in
it as an actress, and the dramatist goes on
tour with it. There was only one thing
needful to comolete her conquest: she mar-
ried him. And thus the end of his art —if
—e exeent The Blue Bird. For Mary Mag-
dalene is a poor drama. “As a courtesan
Mary is a bore : as a convert she is still a
bore . ... Jesus is a mesmerist. from a
dramatic point of view. lie is no more
convincing than Svongali. Maeterlincks
nlav is on a level with those of Hall Caine.
The woman has won.
—
For one shilling you can procure II yaparo
(Australian Authors’ Agency, Melb.) a
series of remarks in alleged verse made to
“Wyzo,” “Wyvo,” “Wyso” and “Wyfo,” all
of whom are apparently politicians whose
names are known only to “Wyaparo’ and
his Muse. Why? Also, WhafforV
11. G. Weils follows his delightful Floor
Games with Little Wars, “a game for boys
from 12 years of age to 150, and for that
more intelligent sort of girls who like boys
games and books” (Palmer, 2s. (id.), -this
variety of Kriegspiel was invented and per-
fected' by the novelist for his sons’ diversion,
but apparently he likes playing it himself.
It is a most interesting, and occasionally
complicated, game, and its details are ex-
plained by photographs of actual mmne
battles. And Wells points out that Little
War is much cheaper than the other kind.
“Great War is at present, I am convinced,
not only the most expensive game in tne
universe, but it is a game out of all P 1 '*'
portion. Not only are the masses ol nu
and material and suffering and inconvenient <
too monstrously big for reason, but
available heads we have for it are too sma •
An appendix upon Kriegspiel, with di-
gested improvements, is included. lhe i i
ginal illustrations are full of humor.
Samuel Butler's prediction that posterity
would appreciate him has been duly no
bv the publishers ; and now, in additio
his Notebooks, we have a new reset edition,
with the author’s latest revisions. ot ‘
Cinderella of his works. Alps and lai ,
aries (Fifield. 55.). This charming booK,
full of Butlerisms, was first published at a
guinea in 1881. and passed almost
bv the press. For its publication ca •
period when Butler had made a
enemies.


w a
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ FOR THE SUMMER FASHIONS
Attractive Costumes at Anthony Horderns’
V.
/A
IK)
illji
KENILWORTH MIGNON brIRIS MELISANDE ROMA
The Kenilworth. —Smart Coat and Skirt Costume, of Black or
Chestnut Brown Cr6pe, with fine White stripe; coat is high-waisted, with
long revers, trimmed small Crystal Buttons and pretty pointed Lace
Collar; four-piece Skirt, with lapped seam back and front 21/9
The Mignon. Useful Robe Costume, Of Navy, Tan, Grey, Saxe or
old Rose Linene, front fastening, three-quarter set in sleeve, turned-down
American collar, and fancy piping; four-piece Skirt, with lapped seam
back and front 4/11
The Iris. —Fashionable Robe Costume, of White and Colored
striped Pique, fastens at back, inlet in centre front of plain Linen to
match stripes, finished pointed White Guipure, stripes are in Grey, Navy
or Black 15/9
The Melisande. —Effective Robe Costume, in Nattier Blue or
Dark Grey figured Delaine, with turn-down collar, cuffs and inlet in bodice
of plain color Delaine to tone ; new three-piece Skirt, finished with Crystal
Buttons, and shaped, lapped seams 23/6
The Roma. —Coat and Skirt Costume, of Saxe, Grey or Black
block-striped Whipcord, collar of plain Sponge Cloth in contrasting shades,
high-waisted, four-piece Skirt, lapped seam back and front, finished shaded
Crystal buttons 32/ 6
Anthony Horderns’
.. SUMMER ..
FASHION BOOK
is an authoritative guide to the
prevailing modes. The illus-
trations faithfully depict selec-
tions from the noteworthy
display in the Green Room of
Charming Reception Dresses
and Evening Gowns, Smart
Ready-to-Wear Costumes and
Blouses and Skirts. Fashions
for Young Australia are also
shown, as well as the New
Millinery, Seasonable Footwear
and Lingerie. Write for a
copy, post free on request.
rv irr i\^R E&,G/s s , . J ' i
DISTI^ 1 ft/ts *T H TrtOMy #iORDERN§^
AK.J™
*
■
/ mm
/II
w .N&i
Sfi
■
■ ': 5
fcn:
Wm%\\
srkj*< V-
-5; sm
./
''' ‘'' fiViV 3 x -
‘•u.’jmJi, -
CHATSWORTH
WELBECK .AINTREE
ASCOT .
The Ascot. An effective design in Ivory Net over Net foundation ;
Bodice has groups of pin tucks and Pearl Buttons on the corsage, basque
and foot of Skirt trimmed with handsome darned Net Insertion.. 79/6
The Welbeck. —A New Style in Silk Crepoline Robe, founda-
tion of Champagne with Coat of Tan, finished Collar effect of Cham-
pagne, folded belt and ends at back of Black Satin; also Grey Robe with
Black Coat, White with Black Coat, or any combination of two colors, or
any self color • ®
The Aintree. —Dainty Robe Costume, of richly-embossed Ivory Net,
unlined The sleeves are finished pleated Net Frills 45/-
The Chatsworth. —Stylish Two-piece Combination Costume
Robe of fine Ivorv Japanese Silk, has new American Collar and knot
of Saxe CrSpe-de-Chine. Skirt has wide lapped seams at side, and Crystal
Buttons. The smart Coatee is of Saxe Crepe-de-Chine, finished with ruched
Waistband and Cuffs of Ivory Silk; or may be had in Tan, Old Rose,
Silver Grey or Black 59/6
Anfhotuj,
Horderns’
v .
i *
1
£5 . «gy
rKRit.
(bii
)mn **
ml f
LIU
H!
1
Naomi
Barbara
trances
Muriel
n
The Muriel. —Smartly-cut Robe French Poplin,
of White Guipure Lace, piping of Black and White Satin, ai <>i ,
yoke
The
21/e
with
square
U 1 vvmtc uuxpuic I I CJ «r 1 _
Buttons; other colors are Grey, Reseda Lose an, » - " f ‘ soft White Pique,
s Frances. —A dressy Coat and Skirt is’new Russian style, s MU ~...
washable Saxe, Brown or Grey woven strlp ® S ’ f „l, Net finished sets of Crochet,
neck, cuffs and front inlet Cream Guipure Applique over g2/6
Buttons; well-cut, three-piece Skirt has 111 Biscuit Poplin, lapped seams on
The Barbara. — Attractive Costume, B eit, Collar and Cuffs
skirt and bodice, completed with frills of Lace, urow 27/6
embroidered in Biscuit and Brown shades, n * Coat is of so ft White Crepe;
The Naomi. —Novel Coat and Skirt Co . ’ R r floral Rosebud
the Spade Collar and Cuffs being of Turquoise Grey, Rote com p oS ed 22/6
ditto, of which the four-piece high-waisted Skirt is mb - v P the smartly . cut Coat
The Edna.—A Styiish. WashaWe, Summer Costu gt and Buttons
is of White Pique, with either Helio, Reseda orey. iNa y for the four .
to match, and Collar and Cuffs in plain .White Pique, which 19/11
piece Skirt * —————
Be Wise!
Make your
selections
from the
wonderful
variety
offered at
the New
Palace
Emporium.
Pop your
orders in
the post
and reap
the full
benefit of
Anthony
Horderns’
Famous
Low Prices.
Postage must be
added to the
prices quoted.
w- .
-?.> A-
V.
«sr , ’ **•
*
>•'
««!
.-'- '• »
jMsk
r
\ S&A V\ •
: >
Hf
pii
7 4 V .
r
J
i
'" W*?**
wm • ■ "i -. ,
m ' ' iLJ
•
o 1
Os tend
Mentoti
rouville
Cannes
na-r
117HCZ 1
~ ... .. T 77*. _ p ns t„ mP of Natural Tussore Silk, the hand-
The Cannes. Attractive Robe Costume, Collar and basque effect at
some Cream-pointed Guipure Lace formi g P , buc i,i e an( j se t s 0 {
waist, finished Black Velvet waistbelt, and ow w , am a t’ b ack 45/6
tiny Black ball Buttons. Skirt is with unde, lapped ™ .45/6
\xsrs ou.
Blue Silk with Crystal Buttons shaded to tone with same ; Centre front is handsomely
trimmed with panel of Silk Braid and Natural Silk Applique on net; plain, well-cut
two-piece"skirtl Also same design in Natural Assam Silk, with centre panel of fine
Cream Guipure and Net, with Self Buttons from neck to hem, the shoulders and cuffs
embroidered in Powder Blue and Copper Silk Braid _
The Ostend Stylish Coat and Skirt Costume, m Natural Tussore Silk, high-
waisted Coat, prettily trimmed centre, back and sides with Guipure Lace and Buttons
broad Collar extending to shoulders in Guipure; three-piece high-waisted Skirt, lapped
jfi front Otl/u
The Trouville. — Handsome Coat and Skirt Costume, in firm quality
Natural Tussore Silk, high-waisted Coat with basque of Guipure Lace, deep Collar
trimmed with Guipure Insertion; smartly-cut, four-piece, high-waisted Skirt; lapped
seam at centre, back and front, graduating to side, with pleats inserted at hem, finished
with Self Buttons and loops of Braid to match 84/-
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Provider»i
New Palace Emporium,
Bricßneld riill*
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


WINCHESTER
22 Cd/iher
e
yy
ww
Two Popular Models t
r sphere are two popular Winchester .22 Caliber
i Repeating Rifles, either one of which gives
first class satisfaction for target shooting or hunting
small game. They are the Model 1903 .22 Automatic
and the Model 1906. The first, as its name implies, is
reloaded by recoil. After its 10-shot magazine is filled
and the rifle once loaded, the only effort required to
shoot it is to aim and pull the trigger. On account of the
ease and novelty of its operation, there is no end of fun
shooting this rifle. It’s the peer of all .225. The Model 1906
is a handsome, well-made, fine-shooting, smooth-wcrking gun,
It is a handy little piece which has no equal in gun value. It
has a 20-inch, round barrel, fitted with sporting front and ad-
justable rear sights. It shoots .22 Short, .22 Long and .22
Long Rifle Cartridges, which permits the use of light ammu-
nition for target work and heavier cartridges for game shoot-
ing. These rifles are Take-Downs, and come apart easily
and quickly and can be packed in a small compass.
WINCHESTER CARTRIDGES. Whichever one of these
rifles you select, use Winchester make of cartridges in it.
They develop the possibilities of Winchester and other
makes of rifles and revolvers to the fullest degree. Get
the kind with the big W on the box.
Winchester Rifles and Cartridges are Sold Everywhere k
LOOK FOR
THIS MARK!
®*SF“
TRADEMARKS
B.S.A.
LOOK FOR
THIS MARK!
Warning to Cyclists
When ordering your new bicycle built of
B.S.A. FITTINGS
insist on seeing tlie B.S.A. mark—the three piled rifles
—and letters “ 8.5. A.” as illustrated, stamped on
EVERY PART.
This mark is your guarantee, its presence means that
you secure the same quality material and workmanship
which has made B.S.A. productions famous the world
over. Therefore, you are certain of long and reliable
service. As a protection against inferior imitations
being substituted, the three piled rifles and letters B.S.A.
should be carefully observed, not on one or two parts
only, but on every part, as follows:
STEERING HEAD, CRANK BRACKET, SEAT PILLAR
LUG, BACK FORK ENDS, BACK FORK BRIDGE,
BACK STAY BRIDGE, HUBS, CRANKS. PEDALS.
Catalogues and Full Particulars of all B.S.A. Goods can be
obtained from
D. Y. RENNIE, representing
The Birmingham Small Arms Co. Ltd.,
4, Australian Buildings, Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub. Free Wheel
on both gears, Back-pedalling and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop Tyres. As
ridden by FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
ANTNONY NORPCRN <O. SONS LTD.,
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Atild Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
OURCAT
A-LOliUE —
illustrated
■throughout
•—will be
posted free to those desirous of
shopping by mail. We sell,carriage
'paid, Jewellery. Watches. Grnmo-
Jphones, Guns, Novelties of all kinds,
many unobtainable elsewhere,
Rubber Stamps. Music Musical In-
strument*, etc., etc. Bole agents for Wilson's Ear
Drums for Deafneßß. Ramey’s Medicator for Catarrh
Write, mentioning this pape»* to: —
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY, 2?9 OHins St-h. M.lhoame
ASTHMA CURE
EHIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty In expectoration. Asthma,.NervousCoughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIM AULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. So d by oil Chemists.
Don’t be satisfied with
Old-fashioned Shaving Methods.
The old style razor, whether flat or hollow ground, and
other safety razors, never have and never will give you the
same smooth, comfortable and luxu-
rious shave that you get with the
Gillette Safety Razor.
No other razor is capable of ad-
justment fof a close or a light shave
to suit your particular requirements,
no matter how heavy your beard or
tender your skin. With the Gil-
lette, by a slight turn of the handle
this adjustment is immediately pos-
sible.
Gillette Standard Set.
The keen diamond-hard edge of New Process Gillette
Blades cuts the toughest beard so easily you scarcely realise
you are being shaved, and the beautiful easy action of the
Gillette over your face leaves it smooth and soft without the
least suspicion of roughness. The Gillette relieves you of all the
trouble and expense of stropping and honing.
I
Don’t put it off —Buy a Gillette To-day.
Of all high-class Cutlers, Ironmongers, Hair-
dressers, Chemists and Fancy Goods shops. Many
different styles to select from. BRITISH MADE.
Write to-day for illustrated and descriptive
Booklet of prices ; please mention this paper.
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR LTD.,
London, England.
Look Carefully for our Trade Mark on
Razor, BJr.des and Case.
it*
KNOWN THE
WORLD OVER.
A CASE OF
NERVOUS
BREAKDOWN
where
CLEMENTS
TONIC
Cured Rapidly.
WmmiM-
mMm
§ll
'
MRS. NELLIE REDDICK, of No. 7 Evansdale Road, Hawthorn (Vic.),
writes this letter to women who are weak or suffering from bad nerves :
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
“Mine was a case of nervous breakdoivn and liver. I cannot express all I
suffered for 19 months; doctors’ attendance and medicines did me no good nn l ac ’
I did not think I could live, or it was possible for anything
do me good. I could not sleep, or suffer to be left alone for P
minutes, for fear I would die in their absence. My headaches ana ot
sufferings are impossible to express. One day / read one of VO
books, and was greatly convinced. I sent and got a bottle straight away, ff 1 ! 1
found so much benefit by it I continued, and took 15 bottles, small size., and l
thankfully say it has cured me. T cannot praise it enough, for it did wonae 7
work for me. I have so much faith in it that it is able to cure anything, tn
my belief. I would never be without it, and have told many to give it a 1
You can publish this if you wish, for I cannot praise it enough.
“ (Signed) NELLIE REDDICE.
All Chemists and Stores Sell Clements Tonic.


Famished
Hair Cells
Hair-failure is due to starved roots and cells.
All the legion of hair troubles vanish if you
strike at the root. It is the same in every ill
—you must go right to the heart of the trouble.
What the grey, languishing, dropping hairs
call for
IS an adequate food—* real nutriment,
ROWLAND'S MACASSAR OIL gives an
immediate new vitality to the feeble roots and
the “ feeding ” cells beneath them. It produces
a soft, silky sheen and texture; a full, luxuriant
growth, radiating a true natural \xa.\v-health
Softly perfumed with Otto of Roses. Supplied
in Gold Tint for fair hair.
ROWLANDS
Macassar Oil!
is sold by Stores, Chemists, and
ROWLANDS, 67, Hattoti Garden,
Lo7idoji.
Avoid cheap wiitations with the same
oe similar name.
PREPAID TO YOUR PORT.
mm
Mm
m
Xd
Ten Days’ Trial allowed. Direct from
Factory. Highest-grade British MEAD
Coventry Flyers
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS.
Defiance Puncture-Resisting or Dunlop
Tyres, Coasters, Variable-Speed Gears, Flyer
or Brook's Saddles - , etc.
LATEST
MODELS
£3.10 to £9
Tyres and accessories at half usual prices.
Wri»e at once, using sufficient postage*
for Free Art Catalogue and Special
Offer oil sample machine. Agents wanted.
MEAD
CYCLE COMPANY.
Dept A 282 LIVERPOOL.
AGENT for MEAD CYCLES-
VAL. D. COLE, Book Arcade, Melbourne.
LARGE STOCKS ON HAND. ALL MODELS
HIM ROD'S
ASTHMA POWDER
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
No matter what your Respiratory
Organs may be suffering from—
whether Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough —you will
find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
CARTRIDGES
essential
m to good sport.
W Good cartridges may
r not always suffice to
ensure good sport, but
good sport is out of the
question without them.
ELEY Cartridges do all that the best
cartridges can do in this direction .with a
trustworthiness which has won for them
a measure of success greater probably
than any other cartridges in the world.
Two ‘Eley Loaded,' Cartridges:
Elcy ‘Acme’
A bright orange £ inch
deep-shell Cartridge
loaded with Eley
i (42-gr.) Smokeless.
Eley ‘Eloid’
Alight maroon Cartridge.
Loaded withEley(33 gr.)
Smokeless. Light recoil;
absolutely waterproof.
The above, and other Eley
Specialities, may be ob-
tained from all Gunmakers
and A mmunition Dealers.
Eley Bro».,Ld„ London
Eng.
w
vtfrl
A MONTHLY GUIDE for everything Aus-
tralian. That’s The Lone Hand. ‘A
marvellous sixpenn’ortb ! ”
COOD FOR
The Children
Every mother knows that there is
no better Cough Medicine for the
little ones than “Bonnington's Irish
Moss.” Its soothing and healing
properties are at once noticeable. It
is pleasant to take and affords relief
from the first dose.
Guaranteed entirely free from harmful narcotics
BONNINGTON’S IRISH MOSS
gained its place in public favor by sterling worth, and keeps it by the same
unchanged efficiency. For the relief and cure of Coughs and Colds, Bronchitis,
Whooping Cough, Croup, this rerLody is unsurpassed.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTES.
Always ask for ''BONNINGTON'S”
1/6 & 2/6.
RUNKENNESS Cured.
Any lady can cure the most violent drunkard—secretly—at home. GOEDEN
SPECIFIC has no odor or taste, and can be taken by the most delicate person
of either sex. It total'y eradicates all craving for stimulants, creating a last-
ing antipathy to alcohol in a few weeks. Many cases are cured in a few days
with this treatment. . . Send 2d. stamp for FREE SAMPLE and full particulars.
THE GOEDEN SPECIFIC CO., DEPT. 4, MARKET STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Modern Methods
Succeed with
VARICOSE VEINS.
FREE BOOK FOR THIRTY DAYS.
Surely the time has arrived now, when
men can say with perfect assurance that
“Nothing is impossible.” For centuries
varicose veins of the legs have been looked
upon as incurable, and to such an extent
has this belief grown that nearly every
man and woman whp has them resigns him
or herself to fate, often without making an
effort towards relief, and again only after
enduring useless operations that only leave
them worse off than when they began.
Anyone who will read the booklet and
testimonials published by the Vecsey
Yarix-arium, 3103 Ash Street, Sydney, will
be quickly disillusioned. The writer, scep-
tical because of traditional belief, began to
read with cynical amusement, but quickly
became serious, and is now a wholesouled
convert to the Vecsey painless method of
home treatment.
This book will explain to the uninitiated
in a few moments, the cause and effect of
varicose veins more fully than can be
gleaned from the perusal of the entire
gamut of medical lore on the subject.
Simple and direct in style, forceful and
convincing in argument, and supported by
indisputable evidence of results, the book
should be in the hands of every sufferer
from varicose veins, varicose ulcers or bad
legs, resulting from varicosity.
The following is a fair example of the
numerous testimonials available:
Mr. E. E. Ward, of Bundaberg, Qld.,
wrote under date of 8/4/T3: “Just a line
or two to say that I do not need
further treatment, as I am now completely
cured, and every sign of the old trouble and
swelling of the veins and leg has disap-
peared, and my leg is once more brand-new,
thanks to your truly wonderful treatment.
“Now, Sirs, I must thank you and.' your
staff for your courteous attention to my
extensive correspondence, and for the, kind
way in which I was treated while under
your advice, and you may use this letter in
any way you desire that may further your
interests, towards which I shall always
give my best efforts.”
A free book can be had for the asking if
a 2d. stamp be included to pay part post-
age, and those who suffer to-day, reconciled
to their fate, may find new light and en-
couragement from its pages.
We cannot recommend the book too
strongly, and our opinion will be borne out
by those who take advantage of this splen-
did opportunity. Send 2d. stamp to pay
part postage. [IOI4J
THE CAN-MAKING INDUSTRY!
SANITARY—SIMPLE
EFFECTIVE—RAPID.
The Entire Top Open.
oto
m
ENTERPRISING PRESERVE OANNERS in every part of the world
have come to realise that the old, slow, unsanitary method of
manufacturing and sealing cans by hand with poisonous solders is ob-
solete.
That is why the MAX AMS SANITARY CANNING MACHINERY
is being used by the world’s leading canners. If you are using cans
lor packing preserves, fruits, vegetables, or in fact any food product, the
SANITARY, SOLDERLESS, HERMETICALLY SEALED CANS
made by these machines will save you time, money and labor.
No. 58 and No. 68 Automatic Double Seamers will seal can tops on
bodies ljin. high and 2in. in diameter up to 1 gallon and over. The
scope in the range of possible changes is instantly appreciated.
No adjusting or fussing, or mechanical skill required. Can be run
by boy or girl.
These machines are BY NO MEANS confined to any PARTICULAR
CLASS of cans. The operation of these Seamers is SIMPLE. The
cans are automatically conveyed to the baseplate with the cover, and
INSTANTLY the CAN engages the rollers, making a CLEAN and tight
DOUBLE SEAM.
We Furnish Complete Outfit for Making These Cans.
For full particulars write to the
MAX AMS MACHINE CO.
MT. VERNON, NEW YORK, U.S.A.
OR THROUGH ANY EXPORT COMMISSION HOUSE.
STOP
SMOKING!
MOST MEN would cure themselves of the
Tobacco habit if they knew they could
do so easily and without discomfort.
It takes but ten minutes for tobacco to
change the beats of the heart. To keep it up
is to tempt death by Heart Disease, Nervous
Collapse, Tobacco Cancer, and Stomach,
Liver or Kidney Disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless, vege-
table remedy that will make the user of
tobacco in any form absolutely abandon the
habit for good. It not only destroys the crav-
ing, the desire, the appetite for tobacco, but
restores to health the entire nervous system,
and aids nature in entirely eliminating from
the system the Nicotine Poison.
You Can Try It FREE.
Send 2d. Stamp, and we will post you a
FREE SAMPLE, also our FREE BOOKLET
“The Tobacco Habit and Its Consequences.”
Mr. Frank Ford (Blackall P. 0., Q’land)
writes: “1 was a heavy smoker for 65 years,
but after taking your treatment for li t days 1
gave the pipe up for good, and never think of
smoking now.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G, 107 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
IL
THE Australian Magazine. THE LONE
HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Hava you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring misses? Do you
want to obtnin an Appliance tliat is not
only COMFORTABLE 10 WEAR, but ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDtR ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Nevermind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
th» reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women <fc children,
CESCKIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic.
The'Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centurlea.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
ui on iine« 1096.
CURBS
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist foriUhistory-the book u tnt-or wnU
S. GREEN. 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Per Bacco.
I found “B a” very useful in the case of a
patient suffering from excessive alcoholic stimula-
tion.—Medical testimonial.
Come, all ye fellow-worshippers of Bacchus
Who love to watch the bubbles in the flagon!
What odds though Mephistopheles may
track us
Or, haply, catch us napping at the
“Dragon” ?
Suppose we do come home a little squiffy
And friends hold up their hands in conster-
nation,
We diagnose our case in half a jiffy—
“ Excessive alcoholic stimulation” !
Such nasty terms as “Tired” and “Scooped”
and “Groggy ”
They never can apply to us hereafter.
We’ll tell them that their intellects are
foggy,
And hurl their accusations back with
laughter!
There may be some reproach attached to
“soaking,”
And reaching by degrees intoxication,
But OUR complaint disarms their ribald
joking:
“Excessive alcoholic stimulation”!
The very name suggests a social status
So far away above the vulgar classes,
Who, while with awe they contemplate us,
hate us,
And curse us through the bottoms of their
glasses!
The Beaks who fine the shilling “drunks” on
Mondays '
Have sense enough to grasp the situation.
They dine with us, and feel sometimes on
Sundays,
“Excessive alcoholic stimulation” !
S. AUSTRALIA.
C. H. SOUTER.
Proof Positive.
“He is the best man in the world !”
So said the Best Man’s month-old bride.
Vague doubts within my conscience whirled ;
I gently cleared my throat and sighed.
“I know he is,” continued she,
“Because he is so good to me.”
“If all you men were like my Jim,
This world would be a better place!”
I gazed at her and envied him,
And tried to keep a straighter face.
“He worships” (How her blue eyes shone!)
“The very ground I walk upon.
“He gave me this fur coat last week!
And there’s a car he wants to buy!”
The flush of pride was on her cheek,
The light of triumph in her eye.
The right retort I could not strike.
“That’s true affection, if you like!”
O sweet, exacting egoist!
To woo like Jim I can’t aspire.
My tokens small —a wretched list —•
I hereby thrust into the fire.
One fatal fault Love’s outlook dims —
My income is one-tenth of Jim's.
n.s.w.
O. DASHEDWILD.
The Compensations of Matilda.
When Aurora in the morning
Draws the curtains of the day,
With her silver sandals scorning
All the shadows damp and grey;
When the milkcart rolls like thunder
Down the half-awakened street,
Young Matilda peeps from under
Lids by pleasant dreams made sweet.
Young Aurora lifts the darkness,
Young Matilda draws the blind,
While the city in its starkness
Shivers to the early wind ;
And the rays of one maid’s whiteness
Stealing through the leagues of air
Gleam upon the golden brightness
Of another’s rippling hair.
Young Aurora’s job is simple.
Every morn she wakes to smile,
Shows the world a rosy dimple
In her best old classic style.
Pulls the clouds apart with fingers
That the white gods love to squeeze,
Asks the big sun why he lingers,
Then sits down and takes her ease.
Young Matilda, fresh and smiling,
Has a hundred things to do
In addition to beguiling
This old world with eyes of blue ;
With a flying broom she swishes
Dusky passage, cloudy floor,
Cooks the chops and warms the dishes
E’er the boarders cease to snore.
Young Diana, softly climbing
Up the purple of the night,
When the longer hours are chiming,
Winks an eye of chaste delight;
Half the world is glad and beery,
Half the rest has gone to bed.
Young Matilda, somewhat weary.
Sews and darns with eyelids red.
Young Diana’s job is easy,
Shining over seas and lands,
Ne’er with plates and dishes greasy
Need she soil her dainty. hands ;
She can work or keep in hiding
Just as suits her fancy best,
And she finds it pleasant sliding
Down the long slopes of the West.
Young Diana, young Aurora,
Living in the land of dreams,
Never through the ages wore a
Pair of gloves with bu’sted seams,
Never through the high sky speeding,
In the dark or dawning wet,
Knew the ecstasy of reading.
One pink penny novelette.
Yes, for all her toil, Matilda
With her sunny wisps of hair
Out of fancy’s bricks can build a
Finer castle in the air
Than the one in which they glimmer,
As she sees about her curled
Steam of all the pots a-simmer
In this hash-house of the world.
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


A MAGNIFICENT INSTRUMENT
... IS THE ...
SCHIEDMAYER s SOEHNE
THE PIANO WITH THE PERFECT TONE.
Made by the world-famous firm of Schied-
mayer and Soehne (who have been making
pianos for the past 130 years), the “Schied-
mayer and Soehne” Piano is perfect in every
pari and solidly constructed. For superb
tone, tune, touch, action and workmanship
it would be hard to beat.
MODEL “A” is handsomely designed
and carved, and possesses a magni-
ficent tone.
MODEL “B” has a movable book-rest
in addition to the ordering rest,
and is a beautiful instrument.
MODEL “C” is splendidly made, and
has a perfect tone.
Illustrated Catalogues and Prices Sent Free.
MODEL “C.”
CASH or TERMS.
YOU ARE INVITED to call and INSPECT our NEW FURNITURE
and PIANO SHOWROOMS, at our NEW GEORGE STREET PREMISES,
facing' CENTRAL SQUARE, near our HEAD OFFICE and DRAPERY
STORE. This mammoth Store has just been opened, and is well worth
a visit.
Marcus Clark 8 Co. Ltd.,
CENTRAL SQUARE, Opposite Railway, SYDNEY.
Dinneford’s
Magnesia
DINNEFORDS
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purohasers
must see the name
“ DINNEFORD’S"
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
CRACKAJACK Senior
i
mm
*\r’«*)y •M©*
V^V
.V-.
< -K.*S» •
:—i
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
BUILT
TO
BEAT
THE
BAND
“Crackajack Mouth Organs
MADE IN SIX STYLES.
Crackajack Professional. 40 Reeds. 3/-
~ Senior 20 ~ 2 -
~ Junior 20 ~ 1/6
Crackajack Double, 40 Reeds, 1/-
Boss Cracker 20 I.'«*
Crackajack Cadet 20 .» 6d.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Sole Agents : ALLAN & CO. Pty. Ltd.,
Melbourne. Adelaide. Bendigo. 6eelong.
;r>
r \
.k
•A
*■
1
LAGER
r CONNOISSEURS
“Marathon” Play Shoes
Best Quality White Canvas Uppers with White Moulded Rubber Soles.
Our National Sporting Shoe. Made in Australia.
FOR TENNIS.
FOR CRICKET.
AND ALL GAMES AND PASTIMES.
Sold by all Progressive Shoe Stores at the following prices :
MEN'S 6(5, WOMEN'S 5/6, BOYS’ 5/9, MISSES' 5/-, CHILD'S 4/6 pair.
Postage extra : Men’s, Women's and Boys', 9d. pair; others, 6d. pair.
If your Shoeist does not stock the “ MARATHON," buy direct from the Manufacturers,
Rubber Co. Ltd.
270 GEORGE SIREET, SYDNEY. Also at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane.
Old and Young
Both old and young like to feel that wh&t
they do is well done, and whether the
Linoleums and Furniture are polished by
either the feeling is secured if Shi*
Noleum is used.
Shi~Noleum gives wonderful satis-
faction, it gives su~h a fine finish to the
Floors, and it is so easy to use that it never
fails to please.
BEWARE OF IMITATION s.
■V
Beauty’s Favourite.
The article which excels all others
in improving; the beauty of the sKin
is naturally and deservedly beauty’s
favourite. This has been the
acknowledged and honoured
position held by Pears* Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and has
maintained that position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by the
possession of those special emollient
properties which soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to the
ekin. No other soap possesses
these qualities in such a pre*
eminent degree as
PEARS
MatcHless for the Complexion.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as tv Newspaper.
Vol. 34.—N0. 1756.
THURSDAY. OCTOBER 9. 1918.
Price 6d.
THE BOY WHO MEANT BUSINESS.
N.S.W.: “When you’ve finished hawking that plank round the country I want to use it.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper,
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Mac-
Leod, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets,
Mosman. for The Eulletin Newspaner
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214
George Street. Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: City 2389.
City 2390.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(11l Advance, Only.)
Per Annum .. . . ..£l6O
Half-yearly . . .. .. 0 13 6
Quarterly .. . . . . . . 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings Sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
M anager.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some
care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. , To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the form
of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short
Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Australian sub-
jects, and not exceeding two columns in length, or,
say, SQOO words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. ivill be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those,
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of
MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. l'lie conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town. Durban and Johannesburg: Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada.- —Thomson Stationery Co.. Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., I/l/l Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros.. Nanaimo. B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah. U.S.A. ; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets. San Diego.
Cal.: Bay City News Co.. San Francisco: Quaker
Neu’S Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A. : IT. E. Lenelian, 585
29th Street. San Francisco: Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets. Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt.- —lgnace Horn. Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Redder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to I’ictoria. West Australia. Queensland. Tas-
mania and New Zealand; and on account of Messrs.
Atkinson and Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide —at
Jl/6 per doz. nett.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6%in.
x H/in.. and gelatine transparencies will be for-
warded on application. Larger metal plates can be
supplied if desired.
Postage Rates.
Single copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper):—Throughout the Commonwealth. New Zea-
land, Fiji. British New Guinea. Norfolk and Lord
llowe Islands, 10oz., \d.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, 160 z., Id. Only one newspaper should be en-
closed in each packet — otherwise: Boz., Id.. Bkoz.
to 10oz., 2\d.; lOoz. to 120 z., Bd.; elsewhere, Ifoz.,
Id., and kd. each additioanl 2oz.
THURSDAY. OCTOBER 9, 1913.
HOME RULE (ALSO ROME RULE)
IN IRELAND.
In present days of stress, when the Pro-
testant half of Ulster has loaded its popgun
for battle, and has drawn the embittered
fish-slice and thrown away the scabbard, the
scoffer has a rare opportunity to gibe re the
disadvantages of a nation which takes its re-
ligion too seriously. It is a sorrowful fact
that no man is so strenuous in his faith as
the one whose faith consists mostly in bating
some other fellow’s faith. And there is no
place where faith is so apt to be strenuous
as along the border where two creeds meet,
especially if they are creeds with a long
fightinv record and a tendency to mix them-
selves up with politics. The easy-going
Roman Catholic of France is a man of pro-
found church peace compared with the irate
Roman Catholic of Fermanagh, and he has
been mostly a man of peace, in the religious
sense, ever since the Revolution. Between
the mild and fatted Presbyterian of Edin-
b.rfgh (he is mild and fatted nowadays)
and the hungry, cantankerous Presbyterian
of Belfast there is a great gulf fixed. It is
curious to reflect now that for the intense
Roman Catholicism of seven-eighths of Ire-
land English rule is partly responsible, and
for the wild Protestantism of the other
eighth it is wliollv responsible. It is almost
impossible to remember any case—save per-
haps that of Turkey—in which one white
nation, having set out to conquer and rule
another, developed such a boundless capa-
city for doing the wrong thing. The Aus-
trians in Hungary and Bohemia, the Rus-
sians in Poland and Finland, the Danes in
Norway certainly sowed the wind at
times and reaped a considerable harvest of
whirlwind later on. But they didn’t manure
the wind so carefully as did the English of
early days, nor did they go out at night
with a lantern to see how the crop of whirl-
wind was coming up.
Early Ireland could hardly be described
ns a Roman Catholic country. It hung on
to many of the simple religious ways of
the Primitive Church when other nations of
Western Europe were settling down under
the hard discipline of the Pope at Rome,
and the countries further east were being
brigaded under the religious rule of the
Patriarch at Constantinople. The westward
movement of the Primitive Church neces-
sarily ended in Ireland and Portugal. It
couldn’t go further without falling into the
sea. America was unknown then, and the
Irish and Scotch seamen hadn’t yet dis-
covered Iceland. (Even at its best Iceland
never amounted to much, and seldom had
anything better than fish to put in the
plate.) It isn’t seriously claimed that any
apostle ever got as far as Ireland, though
such a thing may have happened. An active
apostle, carrying his epistle in bis hand and
with a disciple to look after his carpet-bag,
could sail with a fair wind from Jaffa
to Dublin inside a month, and at almost
every port he might reasonably touch till
he got to the English Channel he would find
himself under the same Government, and
the same code of laws, and he could buy
provisions in the same language. But, leav-
ing the apostles out of the question, it is
certain that the simple old Christianity, or
a very respectable variety of it —the simple
old faith which Paul changed to theology,
and which his successors overlaid with
dogma till at last the thick crust of dogma
had to be scraped away in order to get at
the faith underneath —spread westward very
early. And it lasted longer in Ireland than
elsewhere. England, by reason of the Saxon
conquest, did the most amazing act in the
religious history of Europe by relapsing,
after its conversion, into blank paganism,
and taking again to human sacrifices, horse-
sacrifices, blood-drinking and other ancient
unpleasantnesses. A solid block of heathen-
ism—-disagreeable heathenism by land and
infuriated heathenism by sea —interposed
between Ireland and the bulk of the mis-
sioners who humped dogma into other coun-
tries of Western Europe. The Irish Church
ran very much on its own, and governed
itself after the casual fashion that is faintly
outlined in the Book of the Acts of the
Apostles, even while Rome was establish-
ing an orderly religious monarchy over the
western countries of continental Europe.
It was a wandering kind of church in the
days when the High Kings were still great
at Tara. A bishop didn’t necessarily bisli.
in any fixed place, nor have any fixed or
cast-iron or hide-bound diocese. He might
simply be an eminent preacher and a mis-
sionary at large, after the fashion of Paul,
the inventor of theology. The methods were
practically those of guerilla warfare, such
as were practised by these old evangelistic
tacth-ians, Peter and Barnabas, not to for-
get Silas.
The Irish Church, so far as can be seen
through the haze of ages, got in sight of
its Waterloo when England began to leave
off liuman and horse sacrifices, and blood-
drinking, and other ancient sports, and
drift back to Christianity. The country was
invaded by Irish preachers in the North and
Roman preachers in the South, and the two
creeds met. The scared old pagan kings
asked what were the lowest terms on which
they could keep out of Hell. Judging by
results, the Roman clerics made the best bid
and won. They were an organised force,
while the Irish Church ran wild, in a manner
of speaking. After that Ireland became
more and more distinctly Roman Catholic.
But even up to the days when the Angevin
Empire, under Henry 11., began the process
of annexation it was regarded as a rather
untidy branch of orthodoxy, and greatly
lacking in subservience to the Head of the
Ghurch. In that respect it somewhat re-
sembled Venice, but with a difference. If
religious troubles became acute, Venice
could always at short notice start its army
on the full jump for the Papal State's
to propose a friendly compromise with a
gun, and the withdrawal of all hostile ob-
servations, and Venice was very quick off
the mark at a crisis. On the other hand,
the Irish army was too far off for heroic
measures of that sort. What moral support
—the amount of it is indefinite, but it cer-
tainly was considerable —the Norman-An-
gevin-English invaders got from Rome in
their attack on Ireland was apparently
bused on the fact that the Irish Church was
too much local and too little Roman—that
it tended to be Early Christian and un-
disciplined instead of orderly and theological ;
also it was somewhat like the Book of Acts
and not very much like the City of the
alleged Seven Hills, which are realiy Ten.
Yet Ireland became intensely Roman
Catholic. Possibly the reason was that the
Pope at Rome was, in some sense, a court
of appeal as against the King at London,
and the King at London was generally, in
Ireland’s experience, such an exceedingly
annoying person that any court of appeal
against him had a certain value—even if it
was mostly a sentimental value. Unfortu-
nately Ireland, which was donated to Eng-
land by the Church so that it might be
driven into really orthodox Roman Catholic-
ism, had just fully arrived in the bosom of
the communion when England changed its
views and ordered its unfortunate depend-
ency to come out of the bosom. England
had a habit of handing out ready-made reli-
gions to its dependencies at short notice.
The new creed which was devised in the
reign of Henry VIII. was almost identical
with the old one. for it was very many years
after the beginning of the alleged Reforma-
tion when the Anglican Church really took
shape. Th“ chief difference was that the
Head of the Church, instead of being an
elderly and respectable clergyman in Italy,
was to be a very immoral and drinky and
bigamous lay monarch in England, Ireland
didn’t take kindly to the proposed altera-
tion. It had had monarclis in Eng-
land as its political superiors, and the
idea of having them as its spiritual superiors
also wasn’t wholly enchanting. The appeal
to Rome might be a weak defence against
English tyranny, but it still looked like some
shadow of a defence. In any case, Ireland
lacked England’s dazzling capacity for swift
changes of faith. England, inside six reigns,
was Roman Catholic, nondescript (with the
old faith in most of its essentials save that
the Church had a new Head), Anglican (of
a sort), more or less Roman Catholic again,
Anglican again (of a sort), then largely
Puritan, then largely Presbyterian, then
largely Independent (which meant Puritan-
ism gone mad), and after that it wobbled
back to the old Anglican address, and mostly
lived there until the great Methodist up-
heaval. Scotland rang the changes on
Roman Catholicism, Anglicanism (of a
sort), and Presbyterianism (of many sorts).
Ireland meanwhile stayed where it was. Its
failure to get round the theological corner
while England was doing its lightning
changes was disastrous.
Then England, which had helped in some
degree to make Ireland a really orthodox
Roman Catholic country, became a mad-
dened place. Anglican England, Puritan
England, Mixed England, Presbyterian Eng-
land, Independent England, Infuriated Eng-
land, were all mad, but Anglican England
was maddest. Irish Roman Catholics were
forbidden to own land, to own ships, to own
weapons, to own any horse worth more than
£5, to trade, to have a vote, to sit in Parlia-
ment —in short, an English Judge laid down
that in the eye of the law a Roman Catholic
didn’t exist. A strongly Presbyterian
settlement, largely of Scottish origin,
and partly of criminal origin, was
established in Ulster, and, as a side
issue, for a considerable time the Anglicans
of England leaped on the Presbyterians of
Scotland with almost as much energy as on
the Roman Catholics of Ireland, and kicked
the Presbyterians of Ulster hard enough to
drive them into rebellion. The high-dried
variety of Presbyterianism—the Old Lights
and Cameronians and Covenanters and such-
like folk —regarded, and still regard, Roman
Catholicism and Anglicanism as much the
same kind of idolatry, but in the old days
they suffered incomparably more at the
hands of the Church of England than at
those of the Church of Rome. Now, the
Presbyterians of Ulster are in the curious
position of men who furiously threaten to
draw the oyster-knife of war and to batter
existing institutions with the brolly of battle
because England (where Anglicanism is the
established creed) inclines to give some
measure of self-government to mostly Roman
Catholic Ireland, just as it did long ago to
the mostly Roman Catholic islands of Jersey
and Guernsey, And these strangely mixed-
un religionists are, in the main, descendants
of a race to whom England, for hundreds of
years, sent hostile armies, while Ireland
never sent them anything worse than mis-
sionaries. Piety and politics and ignorant
bigotrv make people acquainted with strange
bedfellows.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Other Times, Other Viewpoints.
Last week the nucleus of the Australian
navy stole silently into Sydney Harbor,
what time some thousands of citizens gazed
doggedly down at the spectacle from cliffs
and other vantage points, and an advertis-
ing expert of sorts went up in a balloon and
came down safely in a parachute, and in-
numerable liars turned to one another and
remarked that this proud day represented
the accomplishment of the dearest wish of
their lives. In the latter class may be put
the local daily papers and about 99 per
cent, of our so-called Liberals. It is en-
couraging to present-day advocates of Elec-
tive Ministries, unification, the opening up
to trade of those fine natural ports which
are being starved in order to advantage
Sydney and Melbourne, and similar more o’-
less advanced ideas, to reflect that a brief
five years ago the same loftily contemptuous
opposition was directed against an Austra-
lian navy as is now directed at the above-
named reforms. The first allies of any
high official prominence that The Bulletin,
and defence enthusiasts generally, were able
to point to were Admiral Poore and
Goxernor-General Dudley. The Admiral
said in November, 1908, that “he would like
to see a flotilla, manned entirely by Aus-
tralians, exercised around the coast.” The
right-thinking (meaning the sort of people
who contributed to or approved of the
Dreadnought movement) were stunned. The
question of whether or not Poore was in his
right mind was deb:: ted. About the same
time Governor-General Dudley, acting, it is
known now. on instructions from tlie
authorities in England, gave his public
allegiance to the local navy idea. The deed
damned him, socially, as effectively as
though he had advocated a six-hour day or
a minimum wage of 2s. per hour. Things
now began to move with a certain amount
of rapidity. The Dreadnought agitation
petered out in unextinguishable derision.
The Fisher Administration gained office
practically on its dauntless opposition to
this weird scheme of defending Australia in
the North Sea. Still Liberalism stuck
to its battered old Policy. It was argued
by the present Prime Minister and his asso-
ciates, in those days, that the first fleet,
owing to its preliminary smallness, could be
of no possible service against any conceiv-
able enemy. Also, it was claimed that there
was no enemy, anyhow, barring, possibly,
Japan; and that this was a foe that Aus-
tralia could not hope to cope with inside a
century or so. Empire Day specialists
pointed out that the whole thing was a con-
spiracy on the part of a handful of disloyal-
ists, avid to cut the painter and blow the
ships of the Mother Country to atoms.
Further specialists of this sort laid it down
that Australians were such mutinous, un-
disciplined and generally degenerate hounds
that they would be bound to be useless as
bluejackets; and in any case, these critics
mentioned, waees ashore were so criminally
high <hat no native-born Australians would
ever be persuaded, in anything like reason-
able numbers, to enter the Commonwealth
navy. As final clinchers, the points were
made that the ships would grow obsolete (a
though all warships didn’t grow obsolete)
that the “mad experiment” would be most
cosily (as though any form of effective de
fence is cheap nowadays) ; and that the onlv
rational and patriotic thing to do was to
go on paying Britain a sum per annum to
defend us, or a bit extra, if necessary to
show our lavishly imperial spirit. Ilow thin
and unworthy these old gags must seem now
to the original exploiters of them is adum
brated in the S. M. Herald whom,
(6/10/’l3), in praise of Admirals Poore
and King-Hall :
They were ready to help the new movement with
all their experience and sympathy. But for tlieir
authority a number of pessimistic fallacies would
never have lost their hold.
Or, to put it otherwise, these experts did a
lot to convince Australia that sheets such
as the S. M. Herald and Sydney Telegraph
and politicians such as Joseph Cook are
bad and reactionary counsellors in defence
matters. Is it too much to ask the public
to believe that, on other issues—special legis-
lation and constitutional reform, for example
—these tireless barrackers for a policy to
sitting down and doing nothing may be
equally in the wrong V
■ • .
The Need for an Imported Expert.
The Bulletin has no great craving for im-
ported experts, but it thinks that one, at
least, is badly required. He might cost a
lot, but, if he knew his business, he would
probably be a saving in the end. It is moved
to this conviction by the news that the Cook
Government is importing one Sir Maurice
Fitzgerald, of the English engineering firm
of John Coode and Co. (which devised the
lamentable Coode canal adjacent to Mel-
bourne), to decide whether Cockburn Sound,
in Westralia, is, or is not, a good place for
a naval base. Pending the arrival of the
person with the magnificent London Jour-
nal name, the works which the Fisher Gov-
ernment started at Cockburn Sound have
been suspended, and proceedings have been
hung up. (The writer hasn’t yet got to the
explanation of why Australia requires
another costly imported expert, but he is
approaching his point gradually.) Now
there are quite a number of people in Aus-
tralia who know Cockburn Sound well—its
depth of water, its currents, its obstructions,
also the solidity of these obstructions, which
includes a general idea of the cost of their
removal. The tendency of Cockburn Sound
to silt up can be ascertained from local
inhabitants, fishermen, drunks, loafers, and
captains and officers of coastal steamers, like-
wise from other people. Its defensibility
can be estimated by local naval and military
officers. The men who superintend roads
and railways in Westralia can tell, at the
shortest notice, whether there are any serious
difficulties in the matter of land communica-
cation, which is a concern of importance.
(The writer is gradually getting to the ques-
tion of the need for importing still another
foreign expert, regardless of cost.) Many
of the people enumerated already know
Cockburn Sound and its surroundings by
heart, and those who don’t know it have
plenty of opportunities for further inspec-
tion if necessary. On the other hand, the
imported expert with the Bow Bells desig-
nation is wholly ignorant of the place, and
proposes to charge an immense fee for a
mere flying visit. Furthermore, he is neither
a naval nor a military authority, and, as
already mentioned, there are good local men
in both branches of defence. Behind the
local men is the Cook Government. It is
supposed to know how large a fleet it pro-
poses to establish, what size of ships it con-
templates, what countries its Dolicy is most
likely to aggravate, where its enemies are
most likely to come from, and whether, sup-
posing its hostile acquaintances come from
the North or the West or the East, it intends
to do the offensive act and rush the foe, or
to lie back at its principal ports and “scrap”
on the defensive. All these are matters on
which no imported expert can amount to
much. They are points which Joseph Cook
is paid to decide, and, if Cook can’t decide
them, the value of Joseph becomes problem-
atical. Therefore it looks as if Australia
ought to import another expert—only one,
and the last. This expert ought to inspect
Joseph Cook, and report as to whether he
amounts to much in the caoacity of Prime
Minister. The expert should look at
Joseph’s indecision, his habit of hiring
other people to resolve things that he should
resolve himself, his hovering eapacitv. his
wobblesomeness, and his inclination to lean
up against experts (also the angle of his
inclination or leaning) when he ought to
lean up against himself. Some day an
enemy will fall on Australia in real earnest,
and, if this country proposes to make a
Sheol of a fight, its Government will have,
perhaps. 24 hours in which to make up its
mind as to its tactics. It will be quite
impossible to get John Coode or Maurice
Fitzgerald out from England in that time.
The Ministry will have to rely on its own
intellect. And if its intellect has been
atrophied by a habit of bringing costly
advisers all the way from London to express
aijt opinion wffiether a dredge should be
pain-fed brown or pink, the outlook won t
be too good.
The Ma State in Liquidation.
Dear Bulletin, —New South Wales is a
wmnderful old Ma Community. The debt is
mentioned as having been £108.216.408 on
.Tune 30. Apparently £4.000.000 of trust
funds have been used, borrowed, employed
or temporarily prigged, which makes full.'
£112,000,000 of debt. If the Government
was a solicitor it would be struck off the
rolls for this sort of thing. The new loans
that the State is struggling to float run to
£6.ooo.ooo—just to go on with. It is hoped
that that amount will carry poor Ma o' el
the elections. The loan expenditure bp
financial year was more than £B,SUO,UW.
The deficit on revenue account was ovei
£1,000.000. The shortage on all accounts
was over £3,000.000. The total amount
which the insane old Ma Creature spent
during the year was about £31,000.000.
profit from its business undertakings
dwindled in one act from a bean of mone
to less than nothing. In fact, but tor t
increase of railway fares it would
dwindled to verv much less than not lung.
No attempt whatever has been made
provide for the past shortage or mr
obvious future shortage —in fact, the ob\


Extraordinary Announcement to Agents.
Christmas Edition of
The Bulletin, 1913.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE that the
CHRISTMAS NUMBER of “THE
BULLETIN” will be an EXTRA
and SPECIAL ISSUE.
Date of Publication: December 13, ISI3.
This SPECIAL NUMBER will con-
tain high-class Stories, Verse and other
Literary Contributions from foremost
Australasian writers.
The Illustrations will be supplied by
the popular Bulletin artists, and
others in the front rank of the artistic
world.
The Ordinary Issue of THE BULLETIN
will be published on the usual oate.
Agents are requested to note
that, as the Christmas Number of
“The Bulletin” is now going to
press, the orders that reach us from
now on will be treated in order of
priority. .
future shortage is to be increased, if all goes
well with the arrangements, by the estab-
lishment of a costly Civil Service Super-
annuation Fund. It isn’t even proposed to
present a Budget till after the elections,
when at least half the financial year will be
over. The Treasurer seems to have no hold
on the finances: his colleagues simply
plunge, and then tell him he must find the
money. The Minister for Public Works
makes wild financial arrangements with a
private firm of financiers in England, and
apparently neither the Premier, nor the
Treasurer, nor the Minister for Public
Words, nor the Secretarv for Loose Elo-
quence can stop him. And all this madness
and obscene calamity have arisen under a
Cabinet which got its job on the solemn
uromise that it would practise honest
finance, reduce borrowing, and spend loan
money only upon works which would pay
full interest and 1 per cent, sinking fund.
Isn’t it time that a prohibition order was
got out against the Ma State, or the Com-
monwealth took her over as a property in
liquidation? —Yours faithfully, Henry
lIORSECOLLAR.
The Inquiry that Didn’t Inquire.
Nothing in N.S.W. State politics ever fell
more flat than the inquiry into ex-I remiei
Wade’s charges against_ Works i Mimste
Griffith of having misused his official
powers, or his otticial position, or hi»
official information, or his official som -
thing or other, for certain fishy and
unofficial purposes of his own. , P,
charges were made in Parliament under
cloak of privilege, and were repudiated
scoffed out by a party vote. That is to say,
the crowd that was out considered <xßiF-
fitii guiltv of corruption even if he wasn t,
and the crowd that was m considered him
not guilty even if he was. Then Wade was
asked—but he wasn’t asked in great haste
to repeat his accusations outside.. wne e
cloak of privilege would lie missing, but
he didn’t. As a compromise, however, ne
offered not to plead privilege, which wasn
quite the same thing, seeing that the
old cloak might turn up again unexpectedly,
Anvhow. Griffith got so far. if the pies-
statements are accurate, as to shoot legal
proceedings (or a formal threat theieo
Wade, not over his recent charges, but over
another and fairly harmless matter that is
now nearly two years old, and which most
people had forgotten. Whether the pro-
ceedings will go on nobody seems to
know. Next, it was decided —with a great
lack of velocity—that it was best to have
Wade’s indictment of Griffith investigated
by a Royal Commission, and one was ap-
pointed with power to inquire into all the
charges save one, and that ihe one which
looked the least important. It was Premier
Holman who made this limitation, and
Holman’s account of the whyness thereof
wasn’t wildly convincing. When the Com-
mission opened its front door for business
Wade flatly refused to go on unless all his
accusations were looked into, including the
very small accusation that had been cut off
at the meter. So the only thing the
Commission could do was to close its front
door again, which it did with an angry glare
in its eye for having been made a fool
of, while Wade faded into the dis-
tance, presumably with the cloak of privi-
lege still around him. Now somebody has
devised a humorous and cheerful explana-
tion of the reticence regarding one small and
quite unimportant-looking item of the dis-
turbance, and a number of people have spilt
their beer through laughter when they
heard it. Possibly the explanation is a lie,
but anyhow it is the one mirthful episode in
a hazy, dreary business.
The House that Throws Things Out.
Another fowl has come home to roost on
the premises of the N.S.W. State Labor
party. The programme on which it secured
oflice included reduction of borrowing,
economy, establishment of a genuine sink-
ing fund, abolition of the State Governor,
and abolition of the State nominee Council.
It turned dog on every one of these prin-
ciples—in fact, it has been the most shame-
less dog-turner in Australian politics. Now
it is trying, at the last moment, to rush
through many excited measures, in order to
advertise itself with the electors, and the
Upper House, which it didn’t abolish, is
casting them down the stairs with the cold
regularity of an automaton. The Fair
Rents Bill was about the last to go. It
was a quaint device, whereby the tenant who
paid 295. 6d. could appeal to a Court to
have his rent reduced, while the one who
paid 30s. 6d. for, possibly, a worse house,
couldn’t appeal to anybody. Exactly what
the Holman-McGowen Government had in
its mind when it devised this jest will prob-
ably never be known. Perhaps it had
nothing in its mind. Perhaps it has mislaid
its mind and all the contents thereof. The
whole thing was curiously reminiscent of that
income-tax proposition that the same alleged
Labor Government produced some time ago,
according to which any little, hard-working
Australian company, making a few hun-
dreds a year by the manufacture of boots or
butter-boxes, with Australian white labor,
remunerated at Australian wage rates, was
to pay a vastly higher income-tax than the
absentee loafer who made a similar amount
out of rents, and spent it among niggers or
Chinamen. It is a strangely complicated
event that the State Labor Government has
actually strengthened the position of the
Tory Upper House by giving it one chance
after another to criticise or flatly reject
alleged Labor measures on the pretext that
they were too Tory and one-sided for even
its digestion.
A Country which is Not so White as It
is Painted.
Bishop Trower, of N. W. Australia, re-
marked casually the other day :
We have a large Asiatic population in the North-
West.... The Japanese element is very strong at
Broome. The Japanese run some of the stores and
own a lot of house property. There is a Japanese
doctor there who is highly qualified and much
respected. There are also a lot of Chinese, mostly
employed as gardeners, cooks and house boys. Also
we have Manila men, Afghans, Javanese and Malays.
Su much for the vicinity of Australia’s back-
door, where the discolored alien is for ever
hanging over the fence and passing remarks
about the attractiveness, of the prospect to
his relations and so on. The big cities are
not much whiter. Each of them has its ram-
part of Chinese vegetable garden, and the
bigger the city grows, and the more Chows
that die, the more numerous, for some unex-
plained reason, the gardens become, and the
larger is the supply of vigorous young aliens
to attend to them. Whole colonies of
Asiatics run furniture shops, and restaur-
ants, in the poorer parts of the different
towns and cities. It is rarely possible to
pass a registry office without striking a
crowd of expectant savages on the pavement
waiting for jobs of different sorts. In brief,
you will see more assorted niggers to the
square foot in our allegedly White Austra-
lia than you will encounter to the square
mile in Britain or on the European conti-
nent. And the position is growing no better
with disquieting speed. The chief explana-
tion is to be found in lax administration of
the Customs Department. Another is the
fact that the measures taken for examining
the holds of incoming vessels from Asiatic
ports, though fairly comprehensive, are not
comprehensive enough. And, finally, the
penalties for aiding and abetting the admis-
sion of undesirable niggers are too light. On
some ships trading out of (say) Chinese
ports it would be harder for a handful of
Chows to stow away, and subsequently in-
vade the Commonwealth, than it would be
for an elephant to pass through a keyhole.
But there are others, many others, in which
some of the officers are liable to be venal,
and many of the crew are capable of being
squared. On these vessels the passage of
the unwanted alien is a smooth one, com-
paratively speaking. The Sydney tramway
service protects itself from fraud by the
agency of a cloud of inspectors. No conduc-
tor or passenger knows at what moment one
of these officials is going to climb aboard and
start investigating. Why not some system
of the sort with the object of obviating the
pollution of the Commonwealth by the intro-
duction to it of colored blood/ The most
certain cure would be the installation of a
reliable official on every vessel trading be-
tween Asiatic ports and Australia. It would
be his business (1) to see that no undesir-
able alien was smuggled aboard before the
ship sailed: (2) to carefully examine the
hidden recesses of the holds, etc., after the
vessel had got under weigh, lest, perchance,
his vigilance had been eluded and a herd of
savages had been stowed somewhere, through
the good offices of a mercenary gang of mar-
iners. Any Customs official or officer or
A.B. or other person who was convicted of
helping to bring undesirable colored folk into
Australia should be handed a couple of years’
hard labor as a minimum, and 10 years as a
maximum. An inspector who was detected
in the act of condoning any such crime
should get all that was coming to him, or
more. If the White Australia ideal is not
worth being preserved by drastic measures,
it is not worth preservation at all.
Free Food.
Deak Bulletin, —Wherever the British
Parliamentarians went, during their just-
concluded visit, they were loaded up with
food. If they had eaten half the victuals
that were put before them they would have
acquired chronic dyspepsia and gastritis, or
else burst. Realising this, most of them put
themselves on a strict diet, and could in
nowise be induced by the well-meaning
aldermen and politicians who clouded round
them, like farm-hands round a pen of Berk-
shires, to do more than merely, as it were,
toy with the trough of public hospitality.
There came a dark day for the Empire, when
someone who was referred to bitterly as a
Disloyalist, did something to interfere with
the organisation of one of the interminable
meals w T hich were being heaped on the visi-
tors. The protests were something fierce.
W. H. Kelly said sadly:—
Members’ instincts of hospitality towards the Bri-
tish Parliamentary delegates should have made them
only too anxious to effect arrangements to act as
hosts to the country’s travelling guests.
This was felt widely to be a proper esti-
mate of the situation. And yet it is all
wrong—grotesquely, madly wrong. The
Parliamentarians who recently did their
brief dash through these parts needed free
food as little perhaps, as any body that has
ever visited here. None of them are poor:
some are extremely rich. Free meals, there-
fore, meant less than nothing to them. The
world knows it, and was bound to have
looked with a lack-lustre eye on our efforts
to entertain them. The travellers would
rather, it is safe to say, have had a body of
competent officials told off to supply them
with facts about the country, than have had
the eating of countless tons of unpaid-for
provender. As things were, no one bene-
fited, and hardly anyone was gratified.
There is a class that would appreciate the
hospitality which was showered on our late
visitors, but it is never offered any free food
to speak of. What an advertisement Aus-
tralia would get all over the world if it
seized on the next shipload of immigrants
and treated them as well for a week as the
wealthy Parliamentarians have been treated
during the past month ! How delighted th Q
immigrants would be! What shouts _of
enthusiasm they would post back to Britain !
And how the different countries which ex-
port immigrants would be impressed!
Another good scheme would be to import
and feed for some weeks, not a body of
wealthy Britishers, but 20 or 20 typical arti-
sans, farm-laborers, etc., and their wives.
Their report on conditions here would be
of more service, as regards attracting fresh
people to this country, than all the plati-
tudes which our late visitors will be able to
get off th<ur chests in a decade. Of course
nothing of the sort will ever be done. The
practice of stuffing with free food and drink
of the highest nuality the very last- people
who require such things is ingrained in tlm
race as ineradicably as is the custom _of
tendering a reluctant bun and a grudging
glass of lemonade to the* really voracious
and needy.—Yours truly, 10-2-4.
Tiie politician is a humorous creature —or
perhaps a humorless creature ; it all depends
on whether he is pulling your leg or his
own. At the Eight-Hour dinner in Sydney
there were present Federal Labor ex-Minis-
ter Hughes and State Labor Premier
Holman. Holman complained bitterly that
it was unreasonable to expect his .Govern-
ment, which has been three years in office,
to do much with a majority of one in the
Lower House and a hostile Upper House,
which, by the wav, could have been swamped
before now. Hughes spoke with contempt
about Cook’s lack of progress, though Cook
has also a majority of one in the Lower
House and is faced by a much more hostile
Upper House, which can’t be swamped.
Moreover, Cook has only got started.
Hughes denounced Cook, very justly, be-
cause of his extravagance and his proposal
to borrow £3,000,000, but when he was
doing it he needn’t have given his moral
support to Holman, who has lately bor-
rowed £8,000,000, and is trying to borrow
£0.000,000, and who snends more money in
N.S.W. than any Federal Prime Minister
has ever spent in a whole continent. And
all parties agreed that the N.S.W. State
Labor crowd, which came into office to
abolish the State Governor and State Upper
House, and to reduce borrowing, and create
a genuine sinking fund, had never once gone
back on its principles. Then everybody
slapped everybody else on his affable back,
and said what a dashed good fellow the
fellow with the affable back was. and how
impossible it would be for the world to get
on without him.
«
As an outcome of the Agricultural Show,
the nucleus of an Australian Clydesdale
Breeders’ Association has just been formed
in Melbourne. Already there is a Clydes-
dale Studbook, and the association is a
praiseworthy supplement. Yet much more
do we need an Australian Military Remount
Association. Pearce and Millen, AVar
Ministers past and present, are emphatic on
the point that our National Army must be
horsed, especially in the artillery, with its
own animals. The hiring system breaks
down utterly. It is difficult to get a couple
of strange horses to work as a pair; vastly
more is it so with the half-dozen needed
for a large field gun. Kitchener and Hen-
person both impressed on Cook, as A\ 7 ar
Minister, that hiring was a boggle. This
means that the Government must have its
own breeding establishments. It is no use
trusting to private breeders. They will
produce the right sort when it pays
them, and turn to another when that sort
pays them better. At present a Clydesdale
at three years will fetch £4O, while a military
horse at four years will fetch only £3O here,
or £35 to £4O landed in India. And that is
another point: the private breeder sends his
animals to Japan or India if the buyers call
from there, so that the local supply is made
more uncertain. From every point of view
the conclusion is the same—our Government,
in this matter, must make itself independent.
“Galleryite” : Sydney Telegraph, in its
recent flagellation of W. 11. Kelly, put its
umbrella with unusual definiteness on that
young man’s most prominent weaknesses.
Consider this—a collection of imperishable
truths which must appeal to every frequenter
of the House :
It cannot be said of Mr. Kelly that he achieved
any great success for his first legislative effort. He
violated nearly all the canons that are supposed to
guide a Minister. .. .His speech, instead of being a
clear explanation of the essential features, supported
by arguments, was a constant invitation to the other
side to retaliate with open warfare.... He has too
ready a disposition to stir up his opponents by
disagreeable insinuations and oblique allegations....
He threw out a challenge. He attributed motives,
etc., etc.
Kelly is extremely smart and chipper and
self-confident. He excels in the gentle art of
exasperation. For preference he exercises
his talent on the aged or the dull — West
''£ East Sydney, for example. But when
there is no easy mark available he is willing
to tackle bigger game. In fact, in order to
live politically he must irritate; so whether
he does it to individual members or to the
whole of the party which he is hostile to
matters little to him in the last resort. He
was reared in the G. H. Reid school, and
his wit is, in consequence, of a cheapish
character. He specialises in impromptu in-
sults that have obviously been elaborated
with care over-night—and occasionally, for
that matter, over-week. He lacks depth,
knowledge and force. He works hard, and
has a fairly accurate mind, yet he is not
trusted, and few take him seriously. As a
fellow ink-slinger put it to me the other
night, watching Kelly’s portentous exits
and entrances; his dramatically statesman-
like air of abstraction; his impressive Front
Bench method of handling vast masses of
papers, etc., “he feels his position very
keenly.” He is about the most artistic
poseur in the House. He poses so well that
you don’t know he is at it till you
have watched him attentively for minutes at
a time. How different from the crude work
in this line of O’Malley and Howe! Per-
sonally he is well liked by politicians cm
both sides of the House. Members realise
that in gibing as he does he is but playing
the party game. He gets on so_ well, in a
social way, with the so-called thieves, bood-
lers and uneducated dolts who are opposed
to him in the House that we of the Press
Gallerv feel often that he is pulling the
legs of his constituents when he denounces
fhese friends of his and all their allegedly
damnable works.
+
At the next N.S.W. State election Glou-
cester is going to have a candidate who will
stand “in the interest of the true Eiberalism
represented in the past by Henry Parkes
and John Robertson.” Nothing, the new
true Liberal says, has been done for the.
farmer and settler for years past; the man
on the land has known nothing but tyranny
and intolerable exactions. So the true
Liberal wants to get back to the good old
times that quite a lot of farmers talk about
—the good old times which were so en-
couraging to farmers that in 1800, the year
of the Labor party’s arrival in politics,
there were a whole 333.233 acres under
wheat in N. S. Wales, whereas in 1912
there were 2,379,968 acres. In 30 years,
under the glorious benefits of the Liberal
rule of Parkes and Robertson, the farmer
had been encouraged to put an extra 205,000
acres under cultivation; in the next 22
years of intolerable tyranny and repression
the farmer was discouraged so much that he
added a mere 2.046.000 acres, or 10 times
as much. The Parkes and Robertson days
were good old days for the farmer who
didn’t want to farm; for the farmer who
does want to farm and isn’t a mere land-
grabbing loafer, the last few years have been
almost the first decent years N. 8. Wales
has really known. And with the decen-
tralisation to which the Parkes and Rob-
ertson breed of Freetraders were bitterly
opposed, the conditions will yet be made a
heap more satisfactory without hurting any-
body except the city importer, who was the
one person considered in the good old davs
that are still talked about by a few people
who don’t know the facts and don’t want to.
From George 11. Blakemore. who used to
general-manage the far-out Great Cobar
mine, and learned a few things then about
long railway hauls: —
The Railway Department of N. S. Wales is demon-
strating its conservative origin in an amusing way.
I have lately noticed an automatic coupling on one
of the suburban corridor carriages between Strath-
field and Sydney. Presumably the Department is
“trving out’’ the invention before committing itself
publicly to its use. At Cobar, for the last seven
years, automatic couplings have been in satisfactory
use on the Great Cobar mine. In the United State*
it is impossible to find a carriage or a truck on
‘260,000 miles of railway, to say nothing of th"
Canadian mileage or the 85.000 miles of railway i ■
Mexico, that is fitted with any other coupling the
that of the automatic type. If this coupling we.e
The Candid Candidate.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Alfred Ebenezer Jackson was a very
earnest man.
Who aspired to be a statesman, and he con-
sequently ran
At a general election as the Candid Candi-
date,
Sworn to tell the truth ungarbled, leaving
all the rest to Fate.
Jackson had a firm conviction that the
average M.P.
Was not perfectly straightforward as a
member ought to be.
“They disguise their actual motives,” Jack-
son said, “and so they fail.
I shall leave no least suspicion that I'm
sitting on a rail.”
“Fellow men.” quoth Ebenezer. in his first
campaign address.
“My desire to gain election is most eager, I
confess;
True, some patriotic ardor fills me with its
holy fire ;
But to get a safe and steady billet is my
main desire.
“Now. to put the matter plainly, I’ve no
wish to twist or hedge,
And I’m quite prepared to stand to all the
things that I allege.
I aspire to serve Australia in the Big Affairs
of State;
To that aim all local interests gladly I'll
subordinate.
“I shall give no hasty promise for the sake
of votes from you.
Roads and bridges you shall have them
when they are your right and due ;
But where this whole country’s interest
clashes with your local lot.
Then my vote is for Australia and the rest
can go to pot!
“I’ll not stoop to curry favor for the sake
of your back yard,
\vhile the Big Things of the nation call for
labor long and hard ;
For I’m not of those hard grafters whose
chief work is turning coats,
With their thoughts on next election, and
their eyes upon your votes.
“Party ties shall never hold me when I hear
Australia call.
Through rev service to the nation do I seek
to stand or fall.
And to talk election piffle in the House, it I
be sent
There to work. I’ll deem an insult to the
folk I represent.
“I shall scheme to drag no railway through
the back yard of this State;
Nor on anv handy dust-heap in this dashed
electorate , , , ,
Shall I vote to plant a city, while the fact
is evident
That a better site is waiting elsewhere on
the continent.
“I am solid for Protection; but my creed I
won’t abuse
By mea n tricks to shift the duty from com-
modities you use; .
Nor shall I denounce with loathing Social-
ists’ experiments.
While I howl for State assistance for my
own constituents.
“Now. mv worthy friends, you know me,
ard just what I mean to do.
As plain neople of Australia I am ev ry time
for you. , , .
With m” eves upon the future and this great
land’s destiny.
shall not to ‘local interests sacrifice pos-
terity.”
Alfred Ebenezer Jackson raised a wild,
derisive shout _
From “intelligent electors “Mad . they
said “without a doubt. ’ f
And because thev knew he meant it ev ry
word he spoke or wrote
Alfred Ebenezer Jackson did not get a
single vote !
VICTORIA.
DEN.


810-SHOWMEN !
THERE'S only one BEST Biograph. We can prove
it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE.” Send for Cata-
logue. Sole agents: Jerdan’s, Ltd., 593 George Street,
Sydney.
CAN’T SHAKE IT OFF.
How often we hear persons with colds make the
above remark ; but Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
shakes them off promptlv and effecOvelv in a few
doses. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s. Obtainable every-
where.*
Direction
W. BARRINGTON MILLER.
FLASHING COLOR, SPARKLING lIUMOR.
WIT THAT’S KEEN, AND MUSIC THAT APPEALS.
“THE BUTTERFLIES.”
Jack Waller’s Happy “Flight of Fancy.”
Presented by Fred McCrea.
“The laughter ripples always like a summer sea upon the golden sands.”
A NEW PROGRAM THIS WEEK.
S. M. llfhu.u (September 29): “The change of program by this talented little group of perform-
ers found a delighted acceptance from a crowded house.”
The Butterflies “Potted Plays” compel whole-souled hilarity by
their exquisite drollery.
THE LITTLE THEATRE
(Castlereag-h Street, between Liverpool and Bathurst Streets, Sydney).
Every Night at 8. Matinee, Thursday Afternoon at 2. Children Half-price at Matinees Only.
Prices—3/-, 2/- t 1/-; Reserved 41- Plan at Paling's.
iii general use in N. S. Wales, 90 per cent, of the
small accidents which occur in the Clyde and other
marshalling yards would be obviated; but because
dear old Hingland does not use them, all the experi-
ence of automatic couplings in the United States,
Canada and Mexico must go for nothing, until our
thick-headed Railway Department demonstrates what
has been demonstrated for many years on 60 times
the N. S. Wales scale. I suppose if we persist in
paying £3OOO a year for a £lO,OOO job, we must
continue to spend another £20,000 a year to edu-
cate the £3OOO chap up to a £lO,OOO grasp of
Australian requirements.
This being a country of long distances, we should
build our railway conveniences to suit the condi-'
tions. The day will come when it will be done, no
matter how many earth-worms get in the road ; but
it irks one to sit still and see how long it takes for
those in authority to take note of the facts which
stare them in the face. The non-intelligence of the
governing elements of the State are really due to
non-information. It isn’t that men of the Holman
type haven’t as keen an intelligence as one could
ask for, but you can’t expect a man who is an ex-
pert politician to be an expert in the wants of the
State at large. He has enough to do to be a poli-
tician ; but if the same politician was properly ad-
vised by officers living in the country and with
valuable country experience, then a man of Hol-
man’s intelligence could handle the situation as well
as or better than some of the other breeds of poli-
ticians we have, who fill the air with their clamor
Through the present insane policy of centralisation
the political heads of Departments are absolutely
in the hands of Under-Secretaries, who know nothing
of the country or its wants, and who do not trouble
to find out. The State Departments under the rule
of these city-bred Under-Secretaries have degenerated
into autocracies, whose peace of mind is only oc-
casionally disturbed by some troublesome politician
that fate has pitchforked into the position of Minis-
ter. Hence the foolishness of most of the panaceas
put forth by Ministers when they desire to placate
the country. The Minister’s Under-Secretary, not
knowing anything of the country or its wants, can-
not prescribe for it. Therefore we want decentrali-
sation of the State Departments as well as other
things.
The Bulletin admires the energy of its
correspondent, and admits that he is sus-
pected of information. All the same, the
fact remains that the record of accidents in
the three countries he quotes are something
horrible, and the worst time Victoria ever
had in the way of railway homicide was
when it had a Canadian as Railway Com-
missioner. Don’t let us wallow at the
railway feet of Canada until we are sure!
♦
New York Life (Aug., 1913) gets up
against the compulsory defence question and
urges that “Peace has never been so well
advertised as in the past few years.” Well,
this is how The Bulletin has seen it ad-
vertised in the past few days on one bunch
of cables: —
The re-capture of Dibra by the Servians from the
Albanians was sanguinary beyond anything that has
hitherto occurred in the Balkans. The Albanians
defended the place house by house, and only aban-
doned shelter when the walls fell about them. They
contested every yard in the streets with any weapon
that came to hand. The Servians admit that the
Albanians behaved like heroes. When the last
Albanian was expelled, Dibra was a mass of smoking
ruins.
The Orangemen of Winnipeg, Canada, have cabled
to Sir Edward Carson, offering to supply 500 drilled
men for the Ulster army.
All future British destroyers will have names
beginning with their class letter. The names of
officers who served with distinction in the navy in
Nelson’s day have been selected fdr the 10 new
destroyers.
It is officially announced that Greece has asked
the Powers to intervene in the Turco-Greek dispute,
Britain and France have practically reached an
agreement to put a stop to the gun-running at
Muscat—on the Gulf of Oman, and the natural
emporium between India, Arabia and Persia.
Japan is still waiting for China’s compliance with
her demands. These include indemnities for the
families of those victims who were killed at Nankin ;
the punishment of the officer commanding the troops
who fired on them ; and the execution of the actual
murderers.
Mr. F. E. Smith, K.C., said they regarded the
application of Home Rule to any part of Ireland as
a disaster, but would prevent, by force of arms, its
application to the homogeneous counties of Ulster.
Viscount Northland has been appointed second in
command of the Tyrone Regiment of the Ulster
Army.
A new gun has been successfuly tested for the
destruction of aeroplanes in war time.
The Albanians, encouraged by the Servians’ with-
drawal from their positions at Prizrend, assembled
their forces and violently assaulted the Servians, who
allowed them to advance within 500 yards, and
then mowed them down with rifle fire, shrapnel and
machine-guns. The survivors were seized with panic,
and fled to the southern mountains, hoping to regain
Albania.
Well advertised? Why, certainly.
Gone to the wharepunis of his Maori
ancestors, Eru Neliua, one of the chiefs of
the Ngapuhi tribe, aged 80. He was of
great assistance in patching up peace be-
tween his people and those who introduced
the bullet and the Bible to them. The loss
(by fire) of a number of genealogical lists
was a serious matter to the Government of
that period, as it affected the title to lands
purchased by the Crown. Eru was selected
to recite the whakapapas, and so complete
was his memory that they were never dis-
puted. He was of powerful physique, and
Maoriland held no kinder-hearted and more
generous man that the old half-caste, who to
the pakeha was known mtetly as “Mr.
Edwards.”
The Sydney punters who hooted “J.
Baron”- —otherwise millionaire John Brown,
of Newcastle —;as he stood patting Duke
Foote at Randwick on Saturday, knew little
of that estimable old gentleman’s viewpoint,
if they thought the demonstration would
annoy him. As a matter of fact, nothing
could possibly have pleased him more. He
loves notoriety almost as much as he does
money, and lie hates and despises the crowd
on the general ground that a crowd is bound
1o contain a goodly number of Labor voters.
He takes a sort of pride in his invincible
indifference to public detestation. It makes
him feel like Horatius, on the famous occa-
sion when he held the bridge; and like Hen-
ley of the allegedly “unconquerable soul” ;
and like Jack Johnson after he had beaten
Tommy Burns; and similar heroes of an-
tiquity. “How did I stand up to ’em !” he
said proudly to his trainer when the last
curse had died down, and the fat-headed
multitude was fading lugubriously away to
be further lambed down in the Ring. Plainly
the oldster was under the delusion that he
had done a gallant deed. Of course he
hadn’t. Considering the number of police-
men uniformed and otherwise, that swarm
at Randwick, there is nothing in the least
dauntless about facing an enraged mob
there. An actor who offends an upcountry
audience is in a far more perilous plight.
He is liable always to have an egg thrown
at him. No one brings eggs to Randwick.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “The Cingalee.”
Hek Majesty's Quinlan Grand Opera Co.
Palace “On Our Selection.”
Criterion “Within the law.”
Adelpiii “Night Side of London.”
Little Theatre “The Butterflies.”
Tivoli MclntoHi’s Vaudeville Co.
National Amphitheatre Brennan-Fuller’s Vaudeville.
Lyceum Spencer's Pictures.
Lyric V
Colonial > Continuous Pictures.
Empress I
Crystal Palace Continuous Pictures, etc.
aiSEiiM':::::::::.
Imperial Roller Rink. Roller Skating.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Henry V.”
Princess's.... “Queen of White Slaves.”
King's “The Confession.”
Royal “Excuse Me.”
Majestic Amalgamated Pictures.
Opera House Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
West's Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Auditorium “From Manger to Cross.”
The Sydney Repertory Society has con-
cluded a highly successful six-nights’ season
at its newly-decorated and handsome Reper-
tory Theatre. This was devoted to a fin-
ished presentation of Shaw’s sensational
drama, “The Devil’s Disciple.” The choice
of a costume play was an ambitious one for
the new organisation; but the Society
emerged from the test with credit.
The costuming of the play was his-
torically exact; and though the tone
of the production erred by being occa-
sionally romantic, thus contradicting
Shaw’s express purpose of satirising melo-
drama, this fault was due chiefly to the
romantic impression that Herbert J. Bentley
found it difficult to resist in his interpreta-
tion of Richard Dudgeon, the Devil’s Dis-
ciple. Otherwise, this difficult part was
forcibly presented. The story shows a com-
munity of United States rebels of 1777 in
Springtown, upon which the British army
is advancing. The British, in order to cow
the rebels, determine to hang Parson Ander-
son ; but the sergeant, coming to arrest the
parson, finds Dick at tea with Mrs. Ander-
son, and, not from any romantic motive,
Dick acquiesces in the soldiers’ mistake and
goes to his death to save the parson. This
dramatic scene leads to a stirring and
humorous court-martial, in which Shaw
mocks the military in the persons both of
Dick and of the cynical British general,
Burgoyne, Herein the latter’s famous re-
mark about the inefficiency of the British
soldier’s marksmanship causes Dick to
choose the rope instead of death by muddled
musketry. In the last act Dick stands under
the shadow of the gallows, and is saved at
the last moment by the arrival of the par-
son, who, instead of trying to save Dick’s
soul has aroused the neighboring town and
now holds the British army in his power.
The transformation of the parson to the
soldier is finely melodramatic —with a dif-
ference. Indeed, all through, Shaw has
utilised the stock melodramatic incidents —
such as the court-martial and the reading
of the will—in order to satirise them.
AN IMPRESSION OF PATEY, ADMIRAL
OF AUSTRALIA’S FLEER.
Miss O’Keefe, as the hard, religious
mother, made the most of a difficult and
unpleasant part. Miss Eve Truman gave
its true pathos to the part of Essie. A
humorous piece of character acting was
shown by H. Blacket in the part of the
stupid Christopher Dudgeon. The sergeant
(Oswald Aarons) and Major Swindon
(Adrian Stephen) were in good hands. As
the delightful Burgoyne, G. Kay Souper
gave point to Shaw’s brilliant epigrams in a
performance in every way finished and ex-
quisite. No fault, either, can be found in
Sydney Stirling’s playing of the genial par-
son, his passages with his young wife being
especially natural. Miss Aggie Thorn, as
the pretty wife, whose hate of the Devil’s
Di sciple turns to love, admirably expressed
the lighter side of her character in scenes of
fine comedy. In the tragedy that followed
she slightlv lacked the necessary tempera-
ment. Yet her performance throughout was
on a high level of artistry.
That earnest, if slightly humorless, em-
ployee of the J. C. Williamson Co., one of
whose joys it is to assail, in the
columns of the monthly advertising sheet
in which he is interested, any paper or
person that has omitted to literally blither
over the co.’s productions of the preceding
four weeks, is exasperated beyond endur-
ance, seemingly, at what he terms the
“abusive” references of this paper to
Genee. With that diverting variety of sub-
urban hauteur which goes with neat serge
caps, made-up ties and so forth, he de-
nounces The Bulletin staff as “obviously
stupid,” and of “enfeebled intellects.”
Also,. he remarks, by way of a solemn
warning to Australians in general:—•
Managers at present experience great difficulty in
inducing famous people to visit Australia. Strange
as it may seem, distinguished artists prefer to appear
before audiences who have understanding. They
can do so in the Old World.
The writer is not concerned with the Wil-
liamson firm’s employees’ opinion of the
intelligence of the Firm’s patrons; though
the charming naivete of the ga<r about the
Old World appeals to him powerfully, inas-
much as it emanates from one who has
probably been no nearer to the Old World
than Coogee. But what he does protest
against is the grotesque suggestion that he
has been abusive to Genee, or to her art.
In the course of his first notice of that
superb dancer he said :
(1) It is impossible for the writer to acclaim too
heartily the perfection of Genee’s technique. He has
marvelled at it for about 15 years, off and on ; and
it bewildered him as much the other night as ever
it did.
(2) Her skill as a mime, her humor and a certain
attractive gaiety which radiates from her quaint and
childish face are things that everyone can under-
stand.
(3) Genee looks very charming when she is
wheeled in as the doll, in the “Coppelia” ballet, and
her pantomime is, of course, inimitable throughout.
(4) Chopin’s best-loved melodies are played ex-
quisitely by the Grand Opera Orchestra throughout
“Les Sylphides,” a fanciful ballet, in which Genfie,
Schmolz, Novotna and Volinin do amazing and pic-
turesque things.
Ilow'ever, he admitted to a sensation of
weariness and disappointment; and he
mentioned that the frantic plaudits of
the daily papers struck him as over-
done, judging by Genee’s form as it
was displayed in Sydney on the first
few nights of her season here. A week
later she herself told the Sydney Sun that
one of her legs had been strained; that
dancing had been a trial to her for days
past; that she was “a little heroine” to
have danced at all; but that, now she was
getting better, the public would see her in
her true colors. Simultaneously, almost,
The Bulletin wrote as follows: —
At the time of writing, Genee is at her best. And
in “La Camargo,” the famous ballet which was
staged at Her Majesty’s for the first time in these
parts on Saturday night, she gets a unique oppor-
tunity to show her extraordinary skill.
The Hunting Ballet was ludicrously pro-
duced —the offence having been committed,
obviously, by one who had had about as
much experience of the hunting field and
its conventions as the Williamson Firm’s
press agent has had of the Old World.
This paper, being wedded more or less to
plain and truthful speaking, observed ac-
cordingly :
The Meet in an environment of midsummer roses ;
the misplaced spurs ; the outrageous drag-hounds ; the
bluff hunting men in red flannel yachting caps—all
the traditional imbecilities are there. Having de-
livered these few carps, the writer hastens to men-
tions that, in other respects, the show is beautiful
and interesting.
And that —barring a passing reference to
the fact that Louis XVI. furniture figured
in a Louis XV. ballet—was the only
“abuse” the show got in the whole
of the notice in question. The Bul-
letin has referred variously to Genee
as “incomparable,” “entrancing,” and
so forth. If this is abuse, what in the
name of raving dementia is praise? The
fact is, a press agent is, in the nature of
things, incapable of recognising legitimate
criticism. It is his trade to slobber, and
any comment on the boom of the moment
which is not slobber strikes him as wicked
and unjust.
:I: s|: >;: *
Carrie Moore, the Wrestling Ponies, Hil-
ary Long (who is mostly Hilary Upside-
down) and Gladys and Alber are providing
the backbone of the National .(Sydney).
Sydney has had a strenuous and heart-
gladdening week. In addition to the produc-
tion at the Palace of “On Our Selection,”
by Bert Bailey and Co., the Australian
Fleet arrived, the Epsom. Derby and Metro-
politan were run off, Eight Hours’ Day was
celebrated, and a feed was arranged for
George Reid when he comes. And there’s
'another week of “On Our Selection” still to
go!
“The Butterflies” have apparently come to
stay at Sydney’s Little Theatre, where their
flutterings nightly attract large audiences.
« $ *
That excellent melodrama. “Within the
Law.” at Svdney Criterion, despite its melo-
dramatic absurdities, continues to thrill big
audiences. One of the cleverest fake situa-
tions occurs in connection with the alleged
silent revolver. A minute after a man has
been shot by this weird weapon the police
inspector enters, but as the room is in dark-
ness he does not suspect that anybody has
been murdered Evidently he has no se m P
of smell. A Maxim silencer does not sUeE
the smell of gunpowder, nor does it si„„
the sound of a corpse falling, nor even the
Henri French ,
“the intoxicated
genius ," demon -
strates, at the
Tivoli , another
method that
drunks may
adopt to reach
home.
Gene Greene, the En.
per or of Rag and
Bone time, perspir-
ing nightly at Syd-
ney Tivoli.
sound of the explosion. The only thing it
silences is the person fatally shot. Yet, the in-
spector was just outside the door, and a
posse of detectives was listening within the
next room. However, thrill follows thrill so
swiftly that there is no time for the audience
to discover one fake before another well-
known, but well-disguised, fake is upon it.
Diamond and Beatrice, a pair of instru-
mentalists who were resurrected on Satur-
day after being dead as far as Sydney is
concerned for some years, quite justified the
Tivoli in allowing them a second time on
earth —they are quite up to musical high-
water mark. This paper failed to become
enthusiastic when Lillie Langtry, the ‘‘elec-
tric spark,” was here a few months ago,
and now she is back again with the songs
she sang years and years ago it still re-
fuses to be moved to any appreciable extent.
On the other hand, Reynolds and Donegan,
Henri French and the Havilans are
again awarded honorable mention.
si: si:
“East Lynne” began a three-nights round
at Sydney Adelphi on Saturday, and at the
moment this is written the theatre is turn-
ing away the overflow of the crowd that
wanted to see Willie have his final cough.
By the time this paper has set out for the
foreign settlements of Victoria and Queens-
land “The Night Side of London” should
have begun to bid for its blessing.
All this week the Crystal Palace (Syd-
ney) has been specialising in Fleet. “The
Birth and Growth of the Australian Navy”
includes nearly everything from the building
of the various vessels to their speed trials,
as well as the training of the naval cadets;
and “The King’s Navy,” which shows every
class of warship in Bull’s collection, affords
a good comparison between that and the
Australian infant. The grand finale, of
course, is the arrival home of the baby.
John McCormack brought himself and his
concert co. back to Sydney Town Hall, on
Monday night, for the promised return sea-
son, and was deafened with the usual num-
ber of encores. He opened at long range
with solemn Handel oratorio, but got closer
to his audience and hit it over the heart
with “Mother Machree.” The audience took
the full count. “The Scythe Song,” an in-
teresting composition by Hamilton Harty,
with a suggestive reaping accompaniment,
was bracketed with a dainty French item.
A popular tenor (and John is very popular)
isn’t allowed many chances of putting new
songs on his programme. The old favorites
are clamored for so loudly, and song-lovers
are so ready to whoop and stamp for the
old, simple airs, that it would be sheer folly
to disappoint them. Still McCormack
manages to mix his menu fairly well, and
lie gives excellent measure in his easy
Hibernian way. Soprano May Huxley piped
with the sweet freshness of youth Meyer-
beer’s “Shadow Song,” and violinist
Mcßeath supplied an obligato for Gounod’s
“Ave Maria.” besides winning an encore or
so on his own account. Accompanist Vin-
cent O’Brien performed capably and didn’t
drop his music more than was necessary.
Two more concerts (Friday and Saturday
nights) are to happen.
“The Cingalee,” a tuneful old-timer, re-
places “The Arcadians” at Sydney Royal on
Saturday night. There are a few melting
airs in “The Cingalee” that always get the
pnblic by the ear, and the suburban pianiste
is now dashing the household music about
and searching for the score, in order that
she may bring herself melodiously up to
date.


Mk*
1
v »
ess
i <
/: %
SARTO
is made from the best Jamaica
Sarsaparilla Root with special
flavorings, the recipe for which
is held by SCHWEPPES LTD.
exclusively,
SARTO is a refreshing bever-
age, and, being a blood purifier,
has most excellent tonic properties.
It is greatly improved by a slice
of fresh lemon.
Keep it
On Hand
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS.
At the time of writing Genee is making
preparations to leave Her Majesty’s, Sydney
while the Quinlan Opera Co. is on the point
of arriving there, and so there is little of
human interest to be seen save the drab form
of the artisan, nor any sound more melodious
to be heard than the occasional objurgation
of some exasperated scene-shifter.
** * *
“The Grafters,” odd mixture of ragtime
and Girl and knockabout American humor,
is at Adelaide Royal, repeating its successes
of elsewhere. The Tivoli, too, has a strong
American tinge, with the quaint Hobo turn
and Miss Willette Whitaker’s nigger songs.
At this house, also, are the musical Saxones
and Cooke and Rotherts. The much-smaller
King’s has a good bill, with Max Duffek
(acrobatic and musical) and the dashing
Leonard Willard in it; also Clement May,
resident in Adelaide for several years as
“entertainer” and dramatic coach, is in the
midst of an all-Australia tour with his
clever Dickens impersonations. Harold Al-
lert, another Adelaidean of the same type,
has had a big Exhibition evening. West’s
are showing a remarkable fake of the battle
of Waterloo, acted regardless of expense.
The Empire makes a noisy feature of the
Tin-Can Band in “The Fatal Wedding.”
Wondergraph has some strange hunting
scenes in Alaska and Siberia; and the re-
markable New Testament paraphrase “From
Manger to Cross,” with full organ accom-
paniment, is making a solemn tour of pretty
nearly every country town in South Aus-
tralia.
GRAND OPERA,
AT HER
MAJESTY’S ,
MELBOURNE.
The Prima Donna
in the eye of the
artist.
“Jean Sibi’s’’ notes of one Melbourne pie-
ture show: —
Miss Violet Teague hangs the showiest subject in
the annual exhibition of the Victorian Artists at
Eastern Hill. Her offering is a disheartening lady
in buttercup whose hands have been dreadfully mis-
reported. Enes’s “Distant Range,” with an infant
rainbow, demonstrates a chastened sense of color
values; but people who linger recklessly in the
vicinity of Bernard Hall’s nude will be deafened by
the background of apricot and canary. Mclnnes’s
little landscapes are cleverly careless and Max Mel-
Alf Fischer hits the intellect below the belt with a
mysterious fantasy composed of a scrap of seashore,
a skull and a trail of golden light. Alfred terms the
puzzle “The Sea Serpent.” J. Hennessy confronts the
unwary with a couple of saints who look like sinners,
and A. M. Plante has framed a portrait of a trench
peasant thick with paint and unimportance. In Jas.
Adams’s portrait (No. 140) the artist has concen-
trated all the character into the hands. H. S. Power
has a litter of puppies; Leslie Wilkie his usual stack
of portraits; and W. N. Anderson a large view of
Canberra painted in a pleasing, unpretentious way.
F. R. Crozier s and Miss Gurdon s landscapes cause
no disturbance; Miss Roxburgh’s “Burning Off” re-
sembles a design for a tea-cosy worked in wool;
and Alex. Colquhoun’s portrait of a youth is distin-
guished by a cleverness that the artist is growing
out of. Percy Reason’s “Beth” is well painted as
regards the hands, but the visage is a cold, comfort-
less mask which any romantic young man would
decline to marrv. Bernard Hall’s still life, in the
South Gallery, is an expanse of apples and utensils
supported by a shout in old rose. “The Paisley
Shawl” and “The Sisters,” by Clewin Harcourt, recall
the stodgilv affected offences of fashionable photo-
graphers; and the portraits of Miss Alice J Panton
are too much like corned beef crowned with hair.
John C Jov’s still life is a well-executed trifle, and
Tom Humphrey’s pretty woodscape might be the
original scenerv for “The Babes in the Wood. Miss
Cumbrae Stewart’s works are, as usual, good and
conscientious; H. B. Harrison’s view of Edward-
street, Brisbane, has points about
Turners “Camp is so loud that it disturbs tne
traffic in the adiacent offering from Queensland. The
etchings of Victor Cobb are most noticeable in the
Central Gallery, while among the “black and whites
Miss Morris has been “playing the wag” in a land
of gnomes and fairies in the company of the dainty
Arthur Rackham. Respecting the contributions of
StfrS-g tTSSeSTS Melbourne’’ -l*ters,
Miss Chauvel’s “Garden” being the most inviting of
the group.
* * * *
And “O.K.’s” reflections on anothert
To my mind the only exceptionable feature of the
Life of Christ biograph show, “From Manger to
Cross,’’ is the introductory address delivered by an
elderly gent in a frock coat and a German accent.
This unnecessary stranger wraps a thin cloak o
piety around the commercial venture, and remarks
that he would like to have he e " a contemporary o
S r „.]"i°ro,SLu£K%rc“tS fc'ohdple.
and Jewish priests seem insufficiently hairy, are
mostly impressive and rarely ridiculous The boy
Christ, to be sure, is obviously a girl, but 1
and Mary are well presented, and the adult
mhade scenel 3 are® staged with discretion. The
betrayal of Jesus by means of the historic Judas
kiss is dramatically shown, and the bearing of the
Cross and subsequent Crucifixion are about as real-
istic as they could be in their little way. The finest
picture of the series, perhaps, is the Lord’s calling
to His first two disciples to leave their fishing boat
and follow Him. Their response to the call is sur-
prisingly hasty, but the impression of a compelling
force is conveyed to the audience, and the action
of this “recruiting” scene is dignified and pictur-
esque. All the same, it is doubtful whether Biblical
Biographs, Ltd., will do a roaring trade with the
particular section of the public it hoped to catch.
Galsworthy’s “Strife,” the strongest of
all the Repertory plays that Gregan
McMahon has offered to Melbourne’s
thoughtful notice, is to be revived for one
frequent and numerous performance on
Caulfield Cup night (18th). McMahon has
got a license from the authorities to pro-
duce the Labor v. Capital play at the
-National Theatre (top of Bourke-street),
which has accommodation for almost as
many intelligent, persons as the city can
raise for one given performance. George
Bryant will repeat his picture of the mas-
terful strike-leader, and the various bloated
capitalists and starving toilers will bloat
and hunger as they did on the smaller stage
of the Athenaeum.
** * *
Interest in the Quinlan season at Her
Majesty’s (Melb.) was kept boiling last
week by putting two antique pieces of opera
on the fire.. “Traviata” and “Trovatore”
happened Friday and Saturday respectively.
They belong to the period when composers
wrote for purely melodious effect, and paused
after the principal numbers in confident ex-
pectation of an encore. The loud Italian
voices, that made the early Verdi operas
exciting in their day—not to mention the
refined vigor of a Melba co.’s. performance-
were wanting in the Quinlan revivals,
although the finale to the second act of
“Traviata” offered a strong suggestion of old
times. The Quinlan co. treated the work
effectively enough in a quieter way. The
orchestra did its best with limited opportuni-
ties ; the chorus was mostly as admirable as
usual, and none of the principals failed in
The audience on the last lap.
botn singing and acting. Jeanne Brola, as
Leonara in “Trovatore” (the libretto
whereof never rises above penny dreadful
level), added considerably to her laurels.
Her voice was in prime condition, and her
interpretation of the preposterous character
of troubadour Manrico’s high-toned inamo-
rata was as artistic in its restraint as her
forceful Girl of the Golden W 7 est earlier in
the week. Sydney Russell’s Manrico was
so-so. Edna Thornton cut no ice to speak
of as the wild-eyed gipsy lady who had stolen
the cheeild, but Graham Marr made an im-
posing baritone villain. In “Traviata”
(where the unemotional D’Oisly sang to his
soiled dove in his sweetest tenor strains)
the most important consideration was Felice
Lyne. Her top notes, which are very fine
and large for the. young lady’s size, counted
for a good deal, especially in the concerted
numbers. Her wig was golden, and she had
all the appearance and manner of a comic-
opera soubrette on her best behavior. As
an exponent of the Violetta — i.e., Camille —
part, Felice Lyne at present lacks every
qualification save confidence. She is not
awkward in her amateurishness, but she is
somewhat ungraceful, and when trying to
express intensity of feeling the pert and
pretty little lady adds strange mannerisms
to her temperamental defects. She presses
her chin to her chest and scowls ominously,
the contraction of her left eye meanwhile
being rather in the nature of an unintended
wink. These are faults which she surely
could correct by singing songs of anger
and despair to a mirror. To-night
(Thursday) the Quinlan season con-
cludes with Charpentier’s “Louise,” and
on Saturday comes Lewis Waller, with
Madge Titheradge and co. in “Henry V.”
This is announced for a pair of weeks only,
which seems a very modest announcement
considering that all Melbourne has heard
about Henry Vee in connection with the
name of Rignold, whereas a fully grown up
generation has never seen the play staged.
** * *
At Melbourne Royal the end of “The For-
tune Hunter” is coming suddenly. “Excuse
Me” will take its place on Saturday, and
for 10 nights thereafter the uproarious farce
with the trivial title will travel by Pullman
car. Then Fred Niblo and co. will move
along.
4= 4= * *
Hugh Buckler has resumed the livery of
“The Man on the Box” for this la.st week
of bright comedy at Melbourne Bijou, and
until Friday night he will pay the. penalties
of having kissed Miss Paget in mistake for
his sister. A lot of people who have ignored
the Bijou of late may be advised to toddle
lip the marble stairs before “The Man on
the Box” is removed from their sphere of
patronage.
** * *
“In Old Donegal,” put on for six nights
at Melbourne Princess’s, is as piffling as
anything that Allen Doone has offered to
date. An exceedingly tame love story,
slightly thickened with the wickedness of a
conventional old rotter and his foolish off-
spring, this production is only audacious for
the number of open spaces left for the boss
to fill with song and conversation. He takes
full advantage of his opportunities, and huge
hunks of the entertainment resolve
themselves into long and artless dia-
logues between himself and other characters,
Part of the time he wears a green suit and
a scarlet tie, and is in keeping with the
antiquity of the piece; but when he dis-
guises himself in pink whiskers ani beery
speech, he is a weariness, with an unsus-
pected capacity for crude clowning. Clive
Farnham gives Gerald O’Donoghue consider-
able airs for an Irish peasant; Frank Culle-
nane and Tom Buckley are ancient parents
of no particular distinction ; Ethel Bashford
is unaffectedly pretty, and Edna Keeley is a
triumph for her milliner and her powder-
puff. To-morrow night Doone concludes his
season, and on Saturday the new firm of
George Willoughby, Ltd., introduces a start-
ling disturbance called “The Queen of the
White Slaves.”
** * *
The Primrose Four, a squad of ragtimers
with a lot of their importance dependent on
their bulk, took up their quarters at Mel-
bourne Opera House on Saturday. The
four, who are accused of weighing a thou-
sand pounds and look every ounce of the
allegation, sing melodiously and often enter-
tainingly in concert, but individually they
are warblers of less degree. Merian’s
Dogs continue their canine drama, and
Charles Zoli is seeking “the blighter
Spagoni” once again.
sfc
The Battle of Waterloo continues to be
fought with great vehemence at West’s
Palace, Melbourne. Wellington remains the
same restless phantom in an incredible hat,
and N. Bonaparte is still rushing about in
a four-horsed carriage, making horrible
grimaces as he curses the pugnacity of the
Bulldog Breed.
The educated section of the audience. Music
on the brain.
“The Confession,” stated in the advt. to
be the only play the clergy has ever ap-
proved of, is continuing to teach a moral at
Melbourne King’s. There is some doubt
about the identity of the moral, but if the
clergy approves The Bulletin reckons that
the prayers of the congregation will be due
to Anderson for another week at least.
Melbourne Majestic is reverting to the
continuous picture line of business on
Saturday next (11th). Meanwhile the out-
of-date humor of “Whose Baby are You?”
will continue to supply an unfelt want. H.
Corson Clarke proposes to reopen the Bijou
on the 18th, with another Yankee comedy
entitled “What Did Tompkins Do?”
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Norbell”: I can assure the Rev. George Walters
that incense -was burned at H. M. Theatre, Sydney,
during the production of his Biblical play, “Joseph
of Canaan.” I used to take pieces of it home every
night and burn it in my bedroom to excommunicate
the mosquitoes. Further, I have a very clear recol-
lection of many cuts and blue-pencillings made by
Rignold. I certainly had a part given me which, if
not comedy, was so near it that the scene in which
it occurred was deleted. Possibly Mr. Walters’s idea
of what was comedy differed from Rignold’s. Good-
ness knows, we have few-enough Australian drama-
tists who get a look-in, and it should be superfluous
to mention that my remarks were not intended to
belittle Mr. Walters’s great achievement. In proof
whereof I may observe that I myself “produced Mr.
Walters’s “Joseph of Canaan” under somewhat un-
usual conditions. I was teaching in the Convent of
Mercy, Bendigo (Vic.), about 1899, and for a long
time I couldn’t think of a suitable play for the
Christmas “breaking-up.” Mv pupils were net
all girls, and the difficulty was to get a play in
which they could sustain male characters, without
outraging the proprieties by assuming the bifurcated
garment of sinful man. You can’t put convent girls
into trousers. The Reverend Mother would certainly
intervene if you tried to. Rignold happened along
at the time, and when I mentioned my difficulty he
at once suggested “Joseph of Canaan’” as being in
every way suitable for the occasion. The girls could
wear the flowing Arab costumes without impropriety;
“but,” he added with a twinkle, “you’d better cut
out the Mrs. Potiphar episode.” I did, and produced
a bowdlerised version. They have a fine stage in
the convent schoolroom, with every theatrical acces-
sory ; all the costumes were made in the convent,
and we had special scenery. It was an adequate pro-
duction. We had a dress rehearsal at which the
nuns were present, and we “did” the play success-
fully the following evening in the presence of Bishops
Crane and Reville, many of the clergy, and a “large
and fashionable audience.” By the way, Am.\
Castles was then at the convent, but she did not
participate in “Joseph.”
The present All-Australian Exhibition in Mel-
bourne is disappointing in so far as it reveals nothing
more in local manufactures than the exhibitions which
the A.N.A. has been setting up of late years. Never-
theless it is drawing the public in crowds. Mel-
bourne is getting the habit of being interested in
the progress of its industries, and people wander
among the exhibits less aimlessly than of yore. They
look for surprises, and are not astonished when they
find them. The idea that the very best things are
necessarily imported is not yet quite dead, but it
has ceased to talk.
Sydney Harbor Trust never ran a circus nor played
in the orchestra at a music-hall. The day before
the Fleet arrived it issued an appeal to masters of
steamers, motors and other floating goods capable of
making a row to keep their hands off their whistles
and preserve a silence “befitting the solemnity of
the occasion,” or words to that effect. So the Fleet
came in dead silence, and the things that might
have made the most row, and could thus have got
the public excitedly making a row also, were as
sepulchral as if the Admiral was being buried. If
the Harbor Trust had ever been a beautiful damsel
who turned somersaults in a circus, it would have
roared to the whole band to make as much row as
possible as soon as the first ship put its nose in
between the Heads; and if it had ever played in a
music-hall orchestra it would have known that the
way great enthusiasms are worked up is to make the
trombone saw away like mad as soon as the last
bar has been sung.
“0.K.”: A revival of “The Girl of the Golden
West” in Melbourne last week showed the Quinlan
male choristers at their very best, whilst marking
the advance of Puccini in musical melodrama since
he composed “Manon Lescaut.” “The Girl” is not
operatically in the same class as “La Tosca,” nor
does it appeal as strongly to music lovers as even
“Manon,” but its abundance of bv-play and lurid
melodramatic color give the composer any amount of
opportunities to suit sounds to action and make
A dream of opera conductors.
sensual harmony for the audience, so to speak. Good
acting all round is necessary, of course, to give full
effect to the orchestral intentions, and it is in their
acting that the Quinlan singers shine. Two of the
three leading principals—Jeanne Brola in the name-
part and Parker as the scowling Sheriff in the tall
hat—are quite convincing; and Spencer Thomas, as
a rather meek and mild highwayman, is pulled
through his character by his virile associates. Cer-
tainly he is only a weak substitute for John Coates,
yet he serves as a sufficient excuse for the Girl’s
sudden fondness for him. Nevertheless the three in-
teresting central figures would be obviously unreal,
if the five-and-twenty diggers didn’t supply a mining-
camp atmosphere to the bar-room in the first act,
and the forest scene in the third act. Headed by-
Sydney Russell, Graham Marr, Charles McGrath anci
two or.three others of the minor principals, Quin'
lan’s chorus puts in some admirable work. Perhaps
they act the better for being free from the disturb'
ing influence of woman. There is no she-chorus ir»
“The Girl of the Golden West,’’ and when the cats;
are away the mice will play.
“Gloome”: Never in the memory of man have the
times been so bad from the view-point of the Syd-
ney theatrical manager. It is what is known as
un secret de Polichinelle that the gross takings of
the J. C. Williamson firm were £20,000 less, during
the past three .months, than they were during the
corresponding period of last year. And all the
shows, barring, for some reason, acute bellowdrama,
have the same moan to make. The small-pox scare
is not wholly to blame.’ Dull plays, parsimoniously
produced, have something to do with the catastrophe.
The little things tell wonderfully. The dressing of
“The Dancing Mistress” is a case in point. It was
absurdly cheap. One never saw such tawdry and
dusty frocking in the days when J.C.W. was on
deck. Women notice these things and complain
about them —-and that is the sort of hostile criticism
that tells in the box-office. My view is that the
theatrical business will never again be what it once
was in Australia. The motoring habit, which is
just getting definitely on its feet here, is going to*
hit the theatre-going habit violently in the midriff £
and the increasing passion among the popu-
lace for surf-bathing—a pastime which causes people-
to spend whole months at Manly, Cronulla and other-
distant nlaces —must inevitably do further damage-
in the same direction. The blastiferous discomfort
of the theatres is alienating from them a generation]
which grows more and more comfort-loving year by-
year. The modern man, and in a slightly lessee-
degree the modern woman, shudders at the prospect
of having to spend three hours on a hard and in-
adequate seat, with insufficient leg space in front
and a vitiated atmosphere, punctuated by draughts,
all round. If our places of amusement could afford
to instal soft and capacious chairs, with ample room
fore and aft; and if smoking were allowed in the
auditorium, and if a stand for the purpose of
supporting liquid refreshment were in front of each
playgoer’s visage—then would the halls and so on
fill nightly to bursting point. But as long as the
Wowser vote prevails, none of these things can ever
be. And as long as they continue not to be, so
long will an increasing number of people decide that
an evening at the theatre, unless under exceptional,
circumstances, is not worth it at the price.
(Continued o n page 26.)
MISUNDERSTOOD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Beside the blooming loquat tree,
When spent the summer day,
Young Henry Smith, from labor free,
Took up his flute, and softly he
Picked out a little lay.
Aloft, her curtained window at,
Miss Maud, the baker’s daughter, sat. ’
The maid was 40, also fat.
Young Henry blew a tender strain,
With no one to applaud,
The songs of young love’s fear and pain.
Again he piped, and yet again,
“Come to the garden, Maud.”
And as the doe-eyed flautist played,
Maud, in her nightie white arrayed,
Enjoyed the longing serenade.
But Maud grew anxious. Week by week
The timid minstrel boy
Blew out his pale and hollow cheek,
Yet ventured not a word to speak.
Now Maud was fairly coy;
But long delays a maid mature
Can’t be expected to endure.
Maud thought she’d make the matter sure.
Her fluting lover was too shy
To ask a girl to wed;
One night down from her window high
She stole. “Now play no more, for I
Do love you well,” she said;
“I understand your love acute.”
“Wot sort!” replied the vulgar brute —
“ I’m on’y practisin’ me flute!”
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


Panamas-from 15/6
The Genuine
South American.
One of the best values—fine even plait, that will
not crack; correctly sun-bleached; and fitted
with sweat-proof leathers. The lightest hat made
for men, the coolest and most economical for
the country, the sportsman or city man. Widths
of brim from 2J or inches. The new shape
as illustration 15/6
Better qualities . ...21/-, 25/-, 30/-, 35/-
Up to 5 guineas
David Jones Ltd.
Opp. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
w
4
Car
Gossip
Pratt’s Spirit
for your motor
Also use the most suitable oil—
—Mobiloilsi
A, B, B B and E
are specialties, but one will give you better results than
the others. 4 Don’t chance any grade when you can get
that specially designed for your make of car.
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty-T-td.
Throughout the
Commonwealth and
New Zealand.
SOCIETY
“Bookworm” on old history:—
The recent pearl necklace steal was good in its
way, but it was a poor affair compared with the
great diamond necklace upheaval in France over a
century ago. The diamond necklace was made by
Boehmer and Bossenge for Madame Du Barry, ex-
dressmaker, the best (and worst) girl of Louis XV.
Louis, “the Well-Beloved,” died very old, very
seared, and pursued by unlimited execrations before
the worst girl had time to lay her coarse hands on
the gaud, and the jewellers were left with it. The
new queen, Marie Antoinette, wanted it, but Louis
XVI., the Sluggish Hunter, couldn’t find the money. At
that time the nobles (there were 200,000 or 300,000
of them) and the clergy paid no taxes, and the
taxes that the common people paid were so glori-
ously embezzled that it was reckoned that when the
populace paid 500,000,000 livres, 80,000,000, at
most, reached the Treasury, and 420,000,000 were
prigged. Some estimates had it that 40,000,000
reached the Treasury, and 460,000,000 were
prigged. Seeing that the penalties for failure to
pay ran up to life imprisonment or death by torture
the taxes came in, but there was ill-feeling. The
diamond necklace still hung about —an unsaleable
decoration. Cardinal Rohan, who had been thrown
out of Court for being a really too-immoral clergy-
man, wanted to do something to please the Queen
and re-instate himself. A strangely speculative
female came on the scene. She was said to be an
illegitimate descendant of Henry 111., the last Valois
King of France and an occasional King of Poland—
the one who fled from his first kingdom because, he
DESCRIPTIVE.
BOTCHER: “What kind of steak would you
like?”
MRS. YOUNGBRIDE : “Ok, ike same as before
—that dark red kind with the white
trimming.”
said, there were bugs on the Polish nobility, and
who muddled his second kingdom through painting
liis face, wearing women's clothes, and otherwise
going on the burst. She was married to a dubious
military man who called himself a Count —there
were so many nobles in France before the Revolu-
tion that ten or twenty thousand dubious ones were
lost in the crowd. She persuaded the wretched
Cardinal, who had very little left save his sins and
his debts, that he Would be restored to favor if he
arranged the purchase of the diamond necklace for
the Queen. He bought it on time-payment (no de-
posit), and gave it to the Countess with the Valois
pedigree, and it hasn’t been seen since. Also, he
was so far restored to favor that he was allowed to
hold interviews in the dark with a lady (she also
hasn't been seen since) who professed to be the
Queen, but wasn’t. When the jewellers wanted their
first instalment, and the Cardinal hadn’t a bean, and
even his red hat was in the sere and yellow leaf,
the exposure began. Many people took it for granted
that the Queen had the necklace, and was bilking
her creditors. Many people assumed that she was
really the lady whom the Cardinal had hugged in
the dark. His Eminence did a spell in gaol, but
presently was allowed to leak out on the ground
that he was simply a profligate old ass. He never
amounted to much afterwards, except an ass. The
alleged Count, the lady of the dark interviews and
OK THE LAWN.
the necklace all lay low. The wretched jewellers
didn’t lie low, but they got nothing. The one per-
son who really got something was the Countess —the
last descendant of the great royal house of Valois.
She was, stripped naked in public early one cold
morning, and flogged. Then, though she bit a large
piece of meat out of the executioner, she was
branded in two places. Finally, she was sent for
life to a women’s prison where the bedding was
never changed and six women slept in a bed. She
also got away in course of time, and nothing re-
mained but the Stench. And the Stench helped a
thousand other things to drag down Louis, the Slow
Hunter, in the end—Louis who made a brief entry in
his diary on the day when the Bastille was taken,
that he had been out chasing tame deer, but other-
wise nothing special had happened.
Bank Chambers, on the south-east corner
of Market and Pitt streets, Sydney, changed
owners the other day for £35,800. Seventy
years ago William Toogood’s hotel was on
this corner; and, under a variety of names
and a long succession of landlords, the
premises retained a license until 1888, when
the London Chartered Bank went into occu-
pation. On the opposite corner at that
time was the disastrous Australian Banking
Co. —Francis Abigail (who said that some-
body or something was “more Popery than
fiscal”), director; R. McNamara, manager.
At one time, while this corner was occu-
pied by an hotel, the tenant was McGlone,
the constable who was responsible for ,the
arrest of Gardiner, the bushranger, at Apis
Creek, in Queensland. McGlone was not
a success as a Cork, and drifted to San
Francisco, where, by a remarkable coinci-
dence, he became barman in the saloon run
bv the same Frank Gardiner, by that time
liberated through the string-pulling of
influential friends of the family.
At the Mathinna (Tas.) murder trial
Mullins was the corpse, the detective-inspec-
tor the witness, and N. K. Ewing the cross-
examiner :
“Did you hear of Mullins’s reputation—as to his
being very aggressive—when in the district?”
“I never heard that. As far as I could hear, he
only took shandies.”
That detective-inspector knows a thing or
two about liquor. Some day, when Knibbs
has settled the question of the cost of living,
and has a few moments to spare, he might
do worse than take a census of black eyes
and broken noses, with special reference to
the bottles they came out of. Summing-up,
he will almost certainly have to declare that
there is no fight in beer —certainly none
worth mentioning as compared with the ruc-
tions contained in the spirits you get in the
country parts of Tasmania, where the in-
spection amounts to nothing and all the best
brands are manufactured on the premises.
October 2 was the first day of the year
5(57-4 in the Jewish calendar, and for the
following ten days Shadrach is supposed to
sit round in dustcloth and ashes, meditating
over pet sins and being dead certain that
they won’t he endangered by good resolu-
tions. On this occasion the holy period
embraced Fleet day, Epsom, Derby, Metrop.
and other envied festivities, which was play-
ing it low down on Aaron and Rebecca —
especially Rebecca. Aaron got to Randwick
as usual, and put it on to the Gentile in the
old place. Incidentally, one of the book-
makers present at Svdnev’s horse festival
was named Mordecai. '
* * * *
There was a flutter among the Tasmanian
midland squattoeracy recently, the result of
a wedding of the representatives of two of
the Pure Merino families ; but it was nothing
to the flutter the Launceston Examiner
caused when it set itself to do justice to the
apparel of the bride’s father: —
Mr. Robert Headlam wore a gown of sapphire
blue brocade, veiled with black, opening over a
panel of Bulgarian embroidery ; black picture bat,
with one long, sweeping white feather, tipped with
pale grey. ■
Verily, Solomon in all his Sunday upholstery,
wearing his Babylonish garment on the shore
of the Dead Sea, did not whoop things up
like one of these.
* * * *
They are puzzling over it still. It was
the . day the touring American schoolboys
weie giving an open-air afternoon band con-
cert on the Pt. Pirie (S.A.) Oval. Things
seemed to be going well, when a German
sailor hurried off from the sizeable crowd,
and, getting into the middle of the ground,
cut his throat with a razor. Of course, there
were half a dozen sprinting after him at
once; but he turned tail and ran, slashing
himself as he went, until he dropped from
exhaustion, and died within a few minutes,
Now the band can’t settle in its own mind
If Nine Tailors Make a Man who is to Blame
for the Women?
THE AMERICAN
BEAUTY.
THE BECOMING OSTRICH
BOA.
THE NEWEST RACE
COAT.
THE DRAPED SKIRT.
THE FANCY WAIST
COAT.
whether the music drove him to distraction,
or whether it was so good that he decided
never to spoil his ear by risking a discord
again.
* * * *
“Exile”: Ex-Lieutenant Dunne has sold
to a French company the secret of an aero-
plane which simply cannot be made to tip
over. From 1906 to 1908 Dunne dealt with
the British War Office, which sacked him
and Colonel Cody in the latter year. Lord
Tullibardine found funds for Dunne to
continue his experiments, and the result is a
Y-shaped biplane, which can be controlled
by persons who have never tried to fly be-
fore. Dunne took his hands off the controls
on one occasion while flying 60 miles an
hour and wrote some messages. The
machine has dived 400 ft. wiuiout anybody
holding the controls. The Nieuport Aero-
plane Co., of France, has bought Dunne’s
secret, and has sold two machines to the
British War Office —which had missed the
’bus as usual. It reminds the writer of the
Alcock Electrical Range Finder, the inven-
tion of a Melbourne electrician. By this
small instrument both the range and bearing
of passing vessels could be given accurately
in the gun-pits of a fortress. While the
telescope was levelled on the ship, the dials
were working in front of the guns, giving
the angle of elevation and the distance in
yards. There was no limit to the number
of p-uns which could be connected with the
instrument, nor did their distance from the
operator or their position in front or behind
him make any difference. Each gun got its
range truly and simultaneously, and 50
weapons could be pointed at a ship at one
and the same time. Alcock spent three
vears in London waiting for the War Office
to try this invention ; then he had to give
up in despair, and what became of the
machine and its secret is not known to this
day.
From the Oldest Inhabitant:—
Another of Sydney’s old horse marts disann
Inglis and Co. have held their last sale in the awn
Ott-street, for the Commercial Travellers’
there.' About that spTVThe
well, who represented East Sydney inthe Wu)
fifth Parliaments, had a grocery.' H. s Gibso a ™
the first to auction horses in the neighborhood w
llis yards were a few doors north, where afterwards
iff' Rl 3t re fia t oo’ Sy,lney Char les Burt
headquarters of’the horsey fruity Tn 2?® the
earliest ’7o’s Burt betook himself to Levula r a
became Chief Secretary in King Cakobau’s Gove
ment; simultaneously, James Stewart Butters r l!f
Melbourne, was Speaker of the Fijian Leg. Council
Then came Hercules Robinson, who, with Joe Inne
as legal adviser, annexed the Fiji Islands q
the Australian adventurers lost a few very lucrative
billets.
*,* * *
, . ’ .Melbourne has produced a
couple of ingenious take-downs with a novel
ttirn. J-he spiels with which tradesmen are
deluded are usually as ancient as the
device of the 1 hot pies With which a city
tailor was beguiled the other day. The
new dodge calls for two bright spirits and
a 30-pound note, and the trick is to turn
tenners into twenties with the greatest ex-
pedition and the smallest waste of energy,
This is how she gees. The first man goes
into a shop, buys a pound’s worth of sleeve
links, or pipes, or mercery, pays up like a
sound cit., takes his change, and goes on
way. Presently in bounds No. 2. Says
bmight good^LreV-Jle'Td!^
replies the salesman. “What did he pav
you with?” “A 10-pound note.” “As I
suspected. Would you mind letting me
glance at that note? I’m a detective.”
Note produced. The “tec” fingers it, holds
it up to the light. “His old game!” he
snorts. “A forgery! Which way did he
go?” And the “tee” holts after the forger
and never returns. Of the three features
of this simple trick the only one that is not
“crook” is the tenner.
THE THREE-
DECKER.
THE DRAPED SKIRT.
Melbourne Age (24/9/T3) :
The Town Clerk placed before councillors a metal
shield showing the coat of arms adopted by Brighton
in 1858. It consisted of a female figure —probably
Ceres —standing in an agricultural landscape, witn
a windmill in her rear, about where the hast
Brighton bone mills might be supposed to be; ana
a profuse distribution of fruits in the foreground.
The awkward predicament of the goddess of
corn was only brought to light through the
Commonwealth Registrar of Trade Marks
asking for a copy of the shield for registra-
tion, so that no enterprising manufacturer
might use it as a label for Dutch oats 01
freckle cure.
THREE CHEERS AND ONE YAWN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Flagship came to port to-day;
Its flag streamed in the wind,
And several silent shapes of grey
Steamed gravely in behind.
(The Tory press, in wild delight
Described at length “the noble sight”)
With special photographs and maps,
With figures, verse and guff,
The Tory press for tarts and chaps
Put up a solemn bluff.
It banged its gamp and stamped its feet
And whooped like fury for “Our Fleet.”
One might have thought the Tory press
Had always longed and cried
To see “Our Fleet” in gala dress
Into the Harbor glide.
You never would have guessed it had
Once called such visions “wild” and “mad.”
Who would have thought—(Oh, hear the
screams!
The inky howls of bluff!) —
That such a thing would turn out reams
Of Patriotic “stuff” !
You have to wade for scraps of news
Through drifts of patriotic ooze.
Flags, lights and bottles —girls and hands !
Australia’s reached the sea!
The Tory press upon the sands
Cavorts in stupid glee.
It does not guess—it cannot know
It is “Our Navy’s conquered foe!
N.S.W.
JOE SALT, A.B.


99
“Selayne
( Regd)
The New Flannel for Gentlemen’s Shirts, Pyjamas, etc.
FACSIMILE OF TICKET ON SELVAGE SHOW.NG OUARANTEE.
fast colors “ Selayne" unshrinkable
Reg’d. *
flannel
Wild’s Hairdressing Rooms, 30 Upstairs,
Sydney Arcade, George and King Streets, Sydney, is
the proper place to go if you want the best of atten-
tion. Electric head and face massage done in the
latest American style. Hours of business: 8.30 to
6.30; Saturday close at 1 o’clock.*
COTTON-NET UNDERWEAR
FOR THE SUMMER SEASON.
The gauze-like material used in these garments is light and very
cool, and will prove comfortable even during the hottest of Summer
weather. It is neatly striped with Blue and White, which imparts
a very distinctive appearance. The fabric is pre-shrunk.
Singlets* 4/6. TrnnKs, 4/6.
For Summer wear we commend, also, White Cotton Twill Drawers,
made up in the loose-fitting trunk style. PRICE, 3/9. Postage,
3d. per garment extra.
Please mention chest and waist measurements when ordering.
Men’s Wear Catalogue on request.
Peapes (Si Co., Ltd.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 &. 311 George Street, Sydney
'
“Jeames” blithers on as usual:—
I don’t know how the Walier-Titberadge companv
did, financially, during their Sydney visit but in 'a
social sense they were easily the biggest successes
of any .band ot theatricals that has struck these
shores since I first entered service. The Napoleonic
completeness of their conquest of Sydney society is
still a subject of amazed comment iii the Hall
Four men of the company (Waller, Evelyn Beer-
bohni, Quartermaine and Devereux) were made mem-
bers of the Union Club, an institution which under
normal circumstances, gives the glassiest of eves to
the theatrical profession. H. B. Irving was about
the omv other accor who ever got bevond the
strangers’ room of this intolerantly haughty edifice-
and he, as a member of the Athenaeum (the London
Club to which all the more respectable Archbishops
belong), has a right to butt into pretty well anv
place of the sort. About half the company, male
and female, belonged to the Rose Bay Golf Club.
The spectacle of that somewhat mournful-looking
humorist, Beerbohm, playing golf with Governor
Strickland was highly encouraging to advocates
of a rapprochement between vice-regality and the
stage. Everyone who was anyone from the point of
view of the Hall (which is, of course, the point of
view of Society) left cards on the Quartermaines ;
and they and their friends were proffered enough
free food and drink, during their stav, to over-load
one of the new battleships. Why all this enthusiasm
was manifested, on behalf of the Wallers and their
entourage, I know not; but, anyhow, there it was. .
By the way, mention of the London Athemeum
reminds me of a somewhat instructive anecdote
which I overheard H. B. Irving telling at a Sydnev
dinner-party where I attended in my professional
capacity. He said that shortly after he was elected
to the great Pall Mall Club he wandered inside and
asked one whom he took to be a steward, or some-
thing similar, the way to the reading-room. The
man led him upstairs with obvious delight, and
offered later to show him the library, also the bil-
liard-room, and the smoking-room, and the apart-
ment reserved for meditating bishops, and the bed-
rooms, and other spots of interest. One way and
another the two spent quite a pleasant afternoon.
As Irving turned regretfully to go the stranger held
out his hand saying: “Good-bye, Mr. Irving, and I
have to thank you for several very happy hours. I
have been a member of this club for close on quarter
of a century, and you are the first member who has
ever spoken to me.” What a lesson in well-bred re-
serve, and so on, for some of our crude Australian
clubs!
* * * *
Judge Murray, of N. S. Wales, had occa-
sion to speak thus heatedly to a pursuer of
Costs, in his court, the other day:—
I must object to this insulting method of ad-
dressing witnesses. It is one of those insulting
police-court gags which I am determined to do my
Possibly She Invented herself.
NEW CUT COAT.
PROMINENT
FEETURES.
FANCY WAISTCOATS ARE
FASHIONABLE.
THE “OBI” AND
JEWELLED HEELS.
best to stop. That is the kind of thing that often
prevents people from coming into courts to get
justice. They are afraid that someone will get up
and speak to them as if they were either ex-officio
liars or as if they were inferior to those who were
examining them, whereas it often happens that
THE INFERIORITY IS THE OTHER WAY ROUND.
This sort of rebuke is all very well so far
as it goes, but it has been delivered far too
often to be effective. Reform in . the man-
ners of the baser sort of lawyer will only be
achieved after a few members of this clan
have had the quality of their wit and badin-
age officially recognised by fines for Insulting
Behavior, Language Calculated to 1 rovoke
a Breach of the Peace, etc., etc.
* * * *
From The Bulletin’s Old Soldier:
The Bulgarians have at last made public their
losses during the two wars just excluded. J
total, roughly, 150,000 men, or 5-llths of the ori-
ginal strength. The Bulletin has a l rea dy *hown
how completely both the Turks and Bu g
ignored their manifest duty to gather up t e K
ments, and save, as far as was Possible thir
wounded soldiers from death or total disablement.
The result in the case of Bulgaria was that it ex
hausted its supply of possible fighting men, because
it swept those who ought to have belonge
non-combative services into the ranks as ng
men, leaving the subsidiary departments grossly un
dermanned. Lack of numbers places small States
in the present day of national armies at a disad
vantage, which can only be countered y P
organisation. With organisation much c ent
in the way of defence, if not of attack. P
position rather resembles the developments in the
14 th century, when feudalism was beginning
break up. The improvement of boily-armor aiHl
fortification threatened to make T 'y ar a 1 Q Hrwith their
concentric walls of the mediaeval cast e , , , narl _
flanking towers, their overhanging njaohicolated para
pets, pierced with holes through wh ch stones boil
ing water or oil, or melted lead coulc e p
fo the heads of besiegers, were quite unassailable
without artillery, and artillery did not exist. Famine
was about the only certain weapon in siege-craft.
Europe is in more or less the same state of military
and naval impotence now. The Balkan war has
shown that not one of the alleged “Great Powers” is
disposed to insist on bringing about a solution of
the situation to suit itself. Europe—and the world,
for that matter —are getting into the state which,
according to Professor Oman (“History of the Art
ot ' Var ”L Western Europe hail got into in 1300.
Offensive war has become practically impossible, be-
cause the means of defence of the greater States,
especially France and Germany, are too complete to
allow an attack on either to have a chance of suc-
cess that will compensate for the cost. The smaller
States, on the other hand, are too completely armed
for defence, and tod well provided with alliances to
be safely attacked.
The “rice Christian” has been heard from
again, this time in Auckland (M.L.). Ah
Chow was up in the Bankruptcy Court, and
inconsiderate creditors said he had been
passing his coin out of reach. They went
further, and produced this letter, which
the wandering son had received from his wise
father and had left straying about: —
From father to dear son. Received your letter
and money, £lOO, safely, which you gave Joe Ting
to send for y0u.... In your letter you asked me to
try and arrange for your wife to come with your
younger brother. In the present time it is very hard
to arrange anything for you, but you must try
where you are to get some Government people to
arrange for you, or someone else —someone among
the Church people, or A. Don, the missioner. You
must be cunning, and pretend you are a Christian,
and they might help you. . If they help you, alright.
It recalls the case of Poon Gooey. Poon,
it will be remembered, was held up as a
pattern Christian while the last Labor Gov-
ernment was being worried to death to
allow Mrs. Poon to stay in Australia. Then,
when the agitation fell down dead and Mr.
and Mrs. Poon took ship for China, Poon
wasn’t a pattern Christian any more. In
fact, it seemed as if Mr. Poon had received
from his Chinese father exactly the same
advice as the Auckland Confucian had re-
ceived from his guileless old man.
“J.T.C.”: Roman Catholic missionaries
have dropped into the wild Nor’-West of the
Northern Territory, and are going to make
a second attempt to lead Brother Binghi
from his ancient faith, if he has one. The
new settlement is to be on Bathurst Island,
about 30 miles south-east of the old Fort
Dundas settlement on Melville Island. They
have chosen this site for its isolation. In
the first attempt they were located some 50
miles up the populous Daly River ; but they
abandoned that station 10 years ago. It
was an interesting experiment, that. They
laid out their land in half-acre blocks, and
gave each native boy and his lubra a piece
to work. In exchange for what was grown
—corn, cotton, coffee, bananas, pumpkins,
sweet potatoes, mangoes and citrus fruit—
the mission supplied flour, tea and cured
tobacco. Under the care of two fathers and
six lav brothers, the settlement throve won-
derfully for a while —until, in fact, a ser-
pent in the shape of the outside myall
entered the new Garden of Lden. There
were some 600 or 700 natives on the river,
divided into six tribes. These myalls came
to gaze on their reformed brethren, and
whilst they said nothing about the males,
they found the sleek and. fat and
very desirable. Immediately intrigues be-
gan, and there was much philandering and
a few elopements. One native, on being
refused the mission girl he had asked tor,
showed his defiance by hurling a 12ft. spear
at the altar whilst service was in progress.
Thence onward things got worse and worse,
until the settlement fell to pieces. . Yet the
consistent justice of the fathers is m the
minds of the natives even to this day. After
10 vears the ruins of the settlement are still
to be seen, and some large cocoanut palms
and mango trees yield fruit to the still ufi-
reformed heathen.
BLACK AND WHITE.
DOING “SPLITS.”
“Hamer”: The temperance fanatic, like
all fanatics, has a quaint idea of statistical
morality. There is a mission one of whose
objects is to to induce persons who are
dragged before the courts for drunkenness
to sign the pledge. The mission chiefs de-
clared the other day that in six months
1383 persons had signed the pledge, and
only 107 had broken it. What they should
have said was, of coursg, that only 107 of
the pledge-signers reappeared in a sozzled
condition before the courts. Many break
the pledge —aye, even to the point of utterly
blithersome intoxication —yet few are taken
by the John Dunns. In fact, many a fairly
hard Bacchanal isn’t captured once in all his
life.
One of the burning questions just now in
N.S.W. politics is whether Henley, M.L.A.,
“crawled over the back fence” of premises
belonging to Griffith, M.L.A. Griffith says
Henley admitted crawling. Henley says he
didn’t admit crawling, and that he didn’t
crawl. Possibly Griffith’s premises had no.
back fence. Possibly Henley didn’t crawl*
but leaped. Possibly he got in by the back
gate. Maybe he swarmed over the side
fence. He may have broken down the fence,
and trampled arrogantly over the dfibris.
Griffith says Henley “measured the veran-
dah and- back yard.” If he did, Henley
seems to have gone to a lot of trouble for
very little result, but then Henley seldom
produces much result. It might be a good
idea, in these days of small State politics,
to have all N.S.YV. politicians’ fences, veran-
dahs and back yards measured and sur-
veyed, and the details entered on the re-
cords of the Assembly. And finally, if
Henley tore his pants getting over Griffith’s
back fence the size of the rent might be
recorded by the Auditor-General. And if
the pants were hopelessly destroyed they
should be sold as old junk, and the proceeds
paid into the Sinking Fund for the demoli-
tion of the Public Debt.
* * * *
Adelaide had a shock last week, when a
“fashionable case” began to be talked of,
because it prides itself on the fact that, not
for over a quarter of a century, has any
lady who even remotely approached being
Fashionable been convicted of playing tennis
with the Seventh Commandment. The
accused lady in this instance is the wife of
a suburban tradesman; but it is the
list of co-respondents that makes the
city gasp. They are (1) a very dis-
tinguished churchman (2) a middle-aged,
and amiable lawyer, (3) a young Liberal
M.H.A. All of them declare that the
petitioner-husband is just running amok
without any cause whatever. Meanwhile,
the Adelaide Herald is threatened with
something with boiling Costs in it for hav-
ing cheerfully suggested that the respondent
had undertaken to confess all if only the
politician’s name could be kept out of the
case. Altogether, there are the makings of
the father-and-mother of a row.
THE BULGARIAN
SASH.
HER BEST FOOT
FOREMOST.
GETTING THERE.
“CLOTHURNES” AND
SKIRT ATTRACTIONS.
PERCY EXPLAINS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Perth, Thursday.—The Clerks’ Union has cited
the employers for a week of 38 hours, wages 20s.
for lads under 16, 30s. under 17, 40s. under 18,
50s. under 19, 60s. under 20, 70s. under 21, and £4
over.
Mr. Justice Burnside cross-examined a single
clerk, aged 2Ji, receiving 70s. a week, which he com-
plained was not enough. His board cost 255., wash-
ing 2s. 6d., insurance 2s. 6d., and recreations 15s. a
week. His clothes cost £5O, and he bought a dozen
hats a year. He could not account for the balance
of the pay, out he did not smoke.
The judge recommended matrimony.—News item.
In vain do you sigh, Angelina—-
In vain do you hint you’re The One !
Save the aid of deus ex machina
The thing, plainly, cannot be dwie.
Consider the screw I am earning
While the calling of clerk I am learning—
Though I hope that the boss is discerning,
My chance of a “rise” is just none.
These strikes, plus the high cost of living,
Have euchred our trade for the year,
And the boss says he’s thinking of giving
Up business if things don’t soon clear.
Well, I know it’s just one of his wheezes;
But it isn’t a prospect that pleases
And the worst of such grumblings as these is
It makes one uneasy, my dear.
Yet, even supposing things brighten—
Of course, you prefer me to speak
Very plainly—the pinch is a tight ’un
On a mere seventy shillings a week ;
You really don’t know how immense is
The list of my yearly expenses —
Folk would say I was out of my senses
To marry— Me married ! —what cheek !
Why, darling, our boardinghouse-keeper
Says twenty-five bob is “too low”
Though for what she hands out, nothing’s steeper,
As the boarders all very well know!
Then there’s washing, and laundries are shifty—
They know single fellows aren’t thrifty !
And clothes —Well, they cost me quite fifty
Per annum at Snippett and Co. !
Then, amusements! A chap’s not a hermit
If he is in an office all day ;
So he shakes a free leg, as they term it,
When night makes the City more gay ;
And a dance, or a moonlight excursion
With— er—you dear, is simply diversion—
And, like Thingumbob the old Persian,
We sometimes have lager-and-cray !
These things run away with the money,
Angelina ! I’m frequently “broke” ;
Still, there’s one vice I lack —and it’s funny
I don’t —well, I’ll own I can’t smoke!
Cigarettesf Ugh! I won’t even light ’em!
Hold on ! there’s another big item —
I’d almost forgotten to write ’em—-
My hats!.... Well, that would be a joke!
My hats, Angelina—-you’ve often
Admired them —What was it you said?
“They’re sweet; they don’t stain, bleach or soften,
And always sit well on your head.”
Shall I tell you a secret, my true one?
Then — Each month I buy me a new one !
So, you see, if I had to get you one—
Exactly! That’s why I can’t wed !
N.S.W.
CLARENCE O’HAGAN.


s£S£SS»«ft
■rSrKWfihS
would say it was the best wort-
ever been done,
MaJoney. M H R
Out London correspondent cables
that Sir John Fuller, Governor of Vic-
toria, in the course of an interview that
a representative of the '‘Standard’ had
with him, laid stress on the great poten-
tialities in connection with the settle-
ment and development of Victoria.
—Melb. paper
C \
S + 6iH (Wke*
on
Do you Know'
io I'ltle
boys ? They
<die and qo
He&^ev,.
Reporter.- >S /oar opinion oj V/ctori* .
T u ||er ** Immense bo^>biliiTe> )t you Know'.
be l|> oj Cod J, Stef*e
ho riTwill go <>&d jgo .
I K
3M g ra c e-
Mr Cook, (he Prime Minister, said
that Mr Oroom, Minister for Customs,
had OCen in S>dne> in consultation with
the Hoard of Health. It was not pro-
posed to raise the quarantine, and until
Iho State had taken steps on its own
account, which would effectively prevent
the spread of small-pov to the other
States, quarantine would not he lifted.
(Hear, hear.)—Parliamentary item
f Mr. Justice Burnside said that a man
was supposed to earn sufficient to keep
a wife and two children. Women were
not required to keep husbands. Where
a man got ss. a woman should get 3s.
If a legislator, he would tax bachelors
£lO a year. Then women would get ,
husbands.—News item; I
lere
"Tbc
Would Pi^
Indion^nTT2\* bibelot's £io
you dzye. \ They little enough
'to SbenJ on us 2<S it - i$ .*’ .. ,v
• li 11 t it
A\fc£fc y -’— I I refuse "to be,
v^ccinedeol.
Among Ihe passengers lor Melbourno
l>y the H.M.vS. Otway is Dr. W. E. Jones,
Inspector-General for the Insane in Vic-
toria. He said that, after having
attended various medical congresses, he
«as satisfied that the world was becom-
ing madder.—News Item.
I
The Senate had never fulfilled the
purpose intended by the Constitution,
and it was opportune to consider the
best means for making it what the
fiamers of the Constitution had wished
it to be—the House of review and re-
vision.
e. h n u -b)
V ‘ rjzt>vrT~ of -
P&rfy. V't )
|n Wind's eye , o«r
Secs 4f)£ laezj neo fkrfy.
__ .. <
Jheßoy: How j
I looKinp ? Smce (
you y ) V€
"}£e
<; o v- ou~i~.
D* Jones - As ) j^recf
tn&.ddcr.
MELBOURNE, SYDNEY AND ABROAD.


THE VOICE OF THE SIREN.


ATTACKED SUDDENLY.
“I was attacked with influenza, and got so ill that
I had to go to bed,” writes Mr. A. Mayall, boot-
maker, Taukau (N.Z.). ‘‘My wife went to Green
and Colebrook’s store to get something for me ; they
told her to give me Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy,
and she brought a bottle home. I am glad to say
that it cured me, and in less than a week I was as
well as ever and back at work.”*
GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
AN EFFECTIVE REMEDY.
Laxo-Tonic Pills are a most effective remedy for
cleansing the blood, thus removing the cause of
pimples, blotches and other blemishes. Price, lOjd.
and Is. 6d. Obtainable everywhere.*
Martin’s Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. Ladies recommend
them. Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
WOODROW’S
HATS.
Distinctive in
Finish and *Style
PARTICULAR HEN ALL WEAR WOODROWS.
EVERY DAY
more
people are proving that
is the best washing preparation for
blankets, flannels, woollens and dainty
fabrics. Lux is scientific in its methods.
Lux coaxes rather than forces the dirt
from the clothes. Lux shortens the
work at the washtub —lengthens the
life of the clothes.
WON’T
SHRINK
WOOLLENS.
r
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Died in S. Aus. within the last few days
two men long connected with the Murray
River trade —Ebenezer Finlayson and Adam
Leishman. Finlayson, a brother of a former
editor of the Register, quitted the bridge
for a post in the newspaper office, and has
lately done a good deal of political organis-
ing. Leishman was to the end associated
vith the trade as manager of the Gem.
Navigation Co.
GEORGE DAVIES, proprietor
Hobart MERCURY and ex-Speaker Tasmanian
Assembly.
“F.” writes :
A notable landmark on the North Shore of Sydney
Harbor conies under the hammer. This is St.
Leonards House, from which the locality took its.
name. The residence dates back to the first ’4o’s.
In the middle of that decade it was occupied by
Richard Peek, of the firm of Peek and Camnbell,
wholesale grocers, of George-street. It stood on the
top of a green knoll before Miller-street was cut
through. Captain Pockley lived in St. Leonards.
House in the mid-’so’s, and in the mid-’6o’s the
late Judge Forbes had his home there. In later years
one of the tenants was Lieut. Gowland, R.N., who'
lost his life in North Harbor (1874) while carrying:
out a hydrographic survey.
It transpires, incidentally, that the dog
on the Australian flagship is named Samuel.
The name may be lucky, but it is worth
noting that it was the name of an unwarlike
Hebrew landsman and cletic, which facts
are not promising. Saul was a lighting
landsman, and Jonah was a seafarer, and
Solomon was a shipowner, and Ilazael
wanted to know if he was a ‘dog. Why not
call the pup id all his glory after - one of
these ?
The Oldest ‘lnhabitant sehds this :
Mrs. Jane Miller Ryrie, >& daughter of the Rev.
1. Salmon, and widow of 'Ronald Horne Ryrie, of
Bewidale (N.'S.W.), died recently, aged 83 years.
Her husband was a son of Stewart Ryrie, of Arn-
iprior, Braidwood; his wife was a sister aof General
Stewart, some time of the 3rd Buffs (who was Acting
Governor of N. S. Wales before the arrival of Governor
Darling). Stewart Ryrie lived at Mount Pleasant, near
■Bathurst, aihd was half-brother of Ales. Ryrie,
M. of Miehelago. Mrs. Jane Ryrie was born
in Scotland. Coming to Australia shortly 'after her
marriage, in 1857, 'she Settled on Calcite station,
which her husband owned. In later years they
■moved to the Chalet, on the Snowy River., where
Australia’s capital should be.
“Bellringer” : Isn’t the name of Dan
O’Connor on the clock-bells of Sydney
G.P.O. V I think he was P.M.G. when the
useless chimes were ordered or installed-;
consequently, he was immortalised in metal,
and his name, musically speaking, is dinned
into busy Sydney’s deaf ears every time the
clock booms. But the old, white-haired
original is to be seen drifting sa<lty round
the city streets, and his glory lias very ob-
viously left him —-also his cash. These
old-time politicians didn’t know their
business. The only trouble of the
new seems to be not to get rich
too quick, and to explain how they came by
the riches they have. (Often they have
been come by quite honestly; but their
political opponents keep them explaittiiig all
the same.)
“Inver G.”: The unctuous bald head of
David Storey, M.L.A., has an acute fascina-
tion for the incorrigible John Meehan, judg-
ing by the remarks he makes about it in
N. Assembly. The other night David
was orating when some base wretch inter-
rupted, “Huh 1 you’re looking for the lime-
light !” The hatter turned upon the inter-
rupter, and, as he did so, coruscations of
reflected light from his cranium illuminated
the ladies’ gallery. “Limelight!” said he,
scornfully. “Limelight! I had the limelight
long before I came into this honorable House.
I have been in the limelight for years.” The
face of John Meehan brightened immediately.
“That’s it,” he said, nodding in acquiescence.
“That’s what singed your hair off.”
By a Maorilander :-
When William Russell, R. 8., M.L.C., moved on to
Paradise, via Maoriland, aged 75, one of the last
links of the old English school of superior settler
•was broken. The scion of a military caste, he was
educated at the Royal Military College, Sandhurst
(Eng.), joined the army in 1855 (58th Regiment),
and went out to Maoriland. Later, he was there
with the 14th Regiment, but, in 1862, he retired to
the land after seven years in uniform. In 1869 he
began a political career which lasted practically 36
years and carried him from the Provincial Council
of Hawke’s Bay to portfolios in the National Gov-
ernment (Postmaster-General, 1884 ; and Minister
for Justice and Defence, 1889-91). As Leader of
the Opposition from then to 1903 he was a “gift”
to Ballance and, particularly, Seddon. He was out
of touch with their rough, democratic aims and
methods, and was generally content to let it go at
that; and he did it with a grace that has long been
a lost art. Father Peter never passed into the
Pearly Lobby a more courtly politician.
Archbishop Clarke has returned to Mel-
bourne, but the pretty general opinion is
■that he will not stay. He underwent a
severe operation before he left for England
in 1908, and during this last absence of eight
months he was for half that time prostrated
with illness. Obviously he is not equal to
the arduous labor of the diocese. Last year,
in the Synod, Dean Stephen proposed that
Archbishops should get a retiring allowance
•of £5OO a year. (The wage is £2000.) But
the “House” rather set up its back «gainst
pensions, and the matter was postponed till
this year’s Synod, which me'ets directly. The
■direction of many affairs is taken by Arch-
deacon Hindley, Vicar-General —the humble
man who invented the bishoprics of Bendigo,
Gippsland and Wangaratta, and then refused
them all. He ought to be the next Arch-
bishop, but, being a mere “colonial,” has no
hope.
From a man who has threaded the pas-
sage a hundred times: —
Another pilot on the Torres Strait service has
•crossed the bar where, perchance, he may get rest. He
died in exactly the same way as most of his brethren
—suddenly, after long hours of vigil and strain in
the most intricate waters of the world, in charge of
a big ship of heavy draught. And for what? Not
enough to save a trifle for old age. These men must
go on till brain and nerves are shattered, and risks
must be run to save a few pounds for the ship-
owner ! Look at the list. Lowry died on board
ship off Sydney, possibly in his case of old age.
Leggett, a comparatively young man. died on the
bridge, in Whitsunday Passage. Llssher, also com-
paratively young, dropped on the bridge paralysed,
off Cooktown. and died a few days later in the
Thursday Island Hospital. Rossi ter, younger still,
was found dead on a lounge at his hotel at Thurs-
day Island soon after landing. And now Hugh
Craig, liked by every shipmaster he ever came in
■contact with, is found oaralysed shortly after land-
ing, also at Thursday Island. An hour or two later
a blood vessel hurst in the tired brain—and all was
■over. Neither the nublic nor the shipowner realises
what these men do—the unceasing vigilance that is
demanded as they push on in all conditions of
weather, through the tortuous, unlighted channels of
the coral reefs. The shipmaster, I know, does much
the same work, but he has his staff of competent
■officers who can often relieve him ; for the pilot
there is no relief, and not enough pay to give him
rest even in his old age.
PERSONAL.
BOOKLE : "Come on! Come on! Ive got a little double .”
P UNTER: “My oath you have. I saw him in the Zoo.”
It cost the Commonwealth £17,249 in its
own counsels’ fees to find out in the Coal
Vend case that the present law is of no
account whatever when it tries to bump out
a powerful combine, B. R. Wise, who did
the bulk of the bullocking for the Common-
wealth, first in the trial before Justice Issacs
and then in the Full Court and Privy Coun-
cil, drew £6597; and Shand, K.C., spoke
£2734 worth on the original hearing alone.
Still this can be said for the man with the
biggest bill: it isn’t his fault that the Corn-
wealth is not armed with powers so definite
that such costly proceeding's would be ptAc-
tically impossible.
IN TRAINING.
"I wouldn't ask you for money or food , mum;
all I want is some salt. "
“Salt! What for?”
“I want to get up a thirst for Fleet week.”
Mr. Richard Humphries, secretary of
Harrison, Jones and Devlin, Ltd., the Sydney
wool and stock salesmen, the other day com-
pleted what was called “his 50th year of
service with the company,” and got the usual
souvenir. As a matter of fact, the present
co. is only 31 years old ; but the business is
much more patriarchal. In the early ’6o’s
L. M. H arrison was a stock and station agent
at 76 King-street. In 1867 (or thereabouts)
he was joined by “young Dick” Jones, and
the hrm of Harrison and Jones did business
in Pitt-street. In 1870 James Devlin came
in and completed the firm. All are gone
now, the management remaining with Henrv
Moses. J. T. Walker, I. R. Black, and other
financial heavy-weights.
One Conway, who kept an unpretentious
bootshop in Prahran, Melbourne, died the
other week, worth £131,000. And yet old
English writers were given to remarks like,
“It boots not.” or “What booteth it 7” Ap-
parently, if you sell enough shoes, it booteth
considerably.
Lonsdale, State M.L.A. for Armi-
dale, N.S.W., was fatally struck last
Saturday night by a motor-car at the
quiet little town of Uralla —a strange
place at which to bidet it Vioteht
death, lid wAs A peAcefbl And hjjhorable,
but hot ,vei-y brilliAht fcitizeh of 70 Veals—
hot much of a statesman, hot at all given
to violent language in the Assembl-V, and
hot likely to be Premier, or to revolushe, and
to upset things, And declare himself
Dictator, lie Methodist-preached occasion-
ally, and led a good, respectable life, and
hung on hard to his political convictions,
which were numerous. In fact, he was
essentially one of the political rank and file
-—that section of it which prevents people
like Fitzpatrick and Meehan dragging the
rank and file into utter contempt. He was
in and out of politics for 22 years, and never
carried bis principles into any place where
they were liable to fall into disrepute or
have beer spilled on them.
Dr. Strong, of the Australian Church,
Alelbourne, throws up the sponge—practi-
cally starved out. After a brilliant I niver-
sity course, his first tabernacle was among
the miners of Ayr, where Andrew Fisher and
Bobby Burns came from. Next he was in
Greenock, then in Glasgow, and in 1873 he
came to Scots’ Church, Melbourne. During
his nine years in that pulpit there were vol-
canic rumbles of discontent from the Ortho-
doxies. The fight climaxed with a free-
thinking lecture by Chief Justice Higin-
botham. Strong upheld him, and a battle
royal ensued in the Presbyterian Assembly.
Under a certainty of expulsion, he resigned.
Tripping to Britain, he could have got a good
billet, hut he was deluded by representations
that an Australian Church, of free-thinking
seceders from “Scots’ ” could be made a
power in the State. He has been ever since
worrying towards that goal; but the pun o
Scots’ Church has been too strong, and toe
congregation, instead of growing, dropped o
one by one. The only thing, in fact, t
hung on tenaciously was the big “° rt f ag
over the pulpit and the pews in Ilindei
street.
PROOF POSITIVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ilr. W. E. Jones, Inspector-General for the insane
in Victoria... .said that after having attended vari-
ous medical congresses he was satisfied that the
world was becoming madder.
—Gloriously ambiguous report in daily paper.
He heard, amid the gathered pick
Of foremost healers of the sick,
Each medico, in sweet caprice,
Rise up and speak his little piece—
How A had e’en extracted cheques
From patients dredged (’twas thought) by X,
Who cured B’s (faulty) observations
With fifty-guinea operations,
Condemned as criminal by C,
And praised by Y and damned by D
Who won a knighthood, cash and dread,
Restoring glands excised by Z,
Who next rose wrathful to aver
Each vanished symptom would recur,
Save salved by germs that grew in vats
And caused the fits of Thomas-eats.
Then fierce and wild the hail of terms
Show’red round —weird Opsonins and germs,
lons, and Gamma-rays for Ptosis,
And Barium-X-ray diagnosis ;
While gold-glassed experts rose to prove
What part was easiest to remove;
(And showed, in truth, through gland and
socket
One organ all could reach—-the pocket).
Deafened, amid that expert’s spree,
The specialist in lunacy
Watched the bald heads and eyes that glist-
ened,
And mused, as deep in dream he listened ;
And still the woeful din grew sadder —
“The world is surely growing madder !!”
VICTORIA.
SIR RUPERT GARGOYLE.


HAVELOCK
Australia's National Smoke
OBftCCO
/
4s
5414
N
v
\
©djsro
AN Y racing man whose “fancy” is the
pipe will lay “long odds” on cool-smoking
HAVELOCK—he knows a “good thing.”
a good judge will use
PIPES
400
pipe Guar^nt
ve7
e ec |
vim.®
LM
*


TO STOREKEEPERS
Why Carry Large Stocks of Single Cylinder Double Acting Power Pumps, when we can deliver
one or one dozen as you order from our stock ?
Write to use for prices on the DEANE Model A., Single Cylinder Double Acting Power Pumps,
with Brass-lined Cylinders.
AGENTS in every State. If not in stock in your State, apply to—
SIMPSON BROTHERS, 32-34 Clarence Street, Sydney.
COUNTRY AGENTS REQUIRED.
Steam Turbines coupled to Dynamos, Alternators, Pumps, Blowers, Fans, etc.
The Original Inventors of Parsons' Type.
C. A. PARSONS 8 CO., Newcastle-on-Tynf,
HAVE SUPPLIED OVER 60,000 B.H.P. OF TURBINES IN AUSTRALIA alo ™L
Sole Australasian WILLIAM ADAMS (Kb COMPANY LIMITED- , hi
Agents— Sydney, Melbottrne, Brnbane,^^^
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Wright, Heaton and Co., Ltd. (Sydney),
carriers and suppliers of station goods:—
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Bonuses. Off. serves, serves.
Jan., 1906.. £6,593 7£ p.c. =£2625 £3968 £24,298
July, 1906.. 6,311 10 „ „ 3500 2811 27,109
Jan., 1907.. 6,275 10 ~ ~ 3500 2775 29,884
July, 1907.. 7,955 10 „ „ 3500 4455 34,339
Jan., 1908.. 8,826 10 „ ~ 3500 5326 39,665
July, 1908.. 8,054 10 ~ ~ 3500 £4OOO 554 40,219
Jan., 1909.. 7,167 10 „ „ 3500 5000 38,886
July, 1909.. 7,056 10 „ „ 3500 4500 - 37,942
Jan., 1910.. 7,415 10 „ „ 3500 3000 915 38,857
July, 1910.. 7,262 10 „ „ 3500 3000 752 39,609
Reserves transferred to capital, £lO,OOO .. 29,609
Jan., 1911.. 7,450 10 p.c.= 4000 3000 450 30,059
July, 1911.. 7,852 10 ~ „ 4000 3000 852 30,911
Jan., 1912.. 10,445 10 „ „ 4250 6195 37,106
Reserves transferred to capital, £lO,OOO .. 27,106
Premiums on new shares .. .. 4000 31,106
July, 1912.. 10,742 10 p.c. = 4750 5992 37,098
Inner reserves disclosed, £21,000 .. .. 58,098
Jan., 1913.. 9,124 10p.c.= 5000 4124 62,222
July, 1913.. 7,895 10 „ „ 5000 2895 65,117
Capital was for many years £70,000; then two
lots of £lO,OOO each were transferred from reserves
to capital, and another £lO,OOO was got in at a
premium, making the present total £lOO,OOO. Eight
or nine months ago authority was got to issue
another £50,000; but the shareholders were told
that they weren’t going to get any of this just yet.
Perhaps there weren’t any flies then actually in the
co.’s ointment; but there were a lot buzzing too
near it to make the future quite certain. Insect
No. 1: The poor lambing and loss of sheep last
year, which meant less wool to shift, and caused
many a pastoral property to go slow in the matter
of improvements and extras. Insect No. 2: After a
run of good wheat harvests, it seemed about up to
the law of averages to drop in a poor one. Insect
No. 3: Dear money, having much the same effect as
No. 1, and, like No. 1 and No. 2, making some of
Wright Heaton’s book-debts look a trifle more
doubtful than they used to in good times. Insect
No. 4: Increased wages and other costs. The same
moths which cast a shadow over the future have no
doubt eaten a trifle off the half-year’s profits, and
made them look rather thin compared with those of
recent terms.
Taking another view, we get these results: —
Liabilities.
Julv, July, Jan., July,
1907. 1912. 1913. 1913.
General .. £51,470 £66,193 £57,205 £50,093
Assets.
Cash .. 6,020 21,815 21,375 26,934
Premises, plant,
etc. .. 18,211 17,266 19,021 19,972
Stock . . 29,800 45,118 42,346 47,561
Book debts . . 85,141 97,592 114,185 99,243
McCulloch Co. 18,387 25,000 25,000 25,000
Book debts are heavy, as they are apt to be where
much of the trading is done witn people who get
paid only once a year —the wheat farmer in January
or February, as a rule; the wool-grower any time
from September to March. Certainly there is risk
in financing the wool and wheat grower like this;
but he is prepared to pay for it. Anyway, he pays.
Pretty often, perhaps, he doesn’t know he is pay-
ing ; but bills have become so much a habit with
him that he will go on paying for accommodation
even when he doesn’t need it. Considering the
stock and book debts it has to carry, Wright, Heaton
& Co. get along with very little accommodation,
from other people: on July 31 they owed only
£50,093, and against that they held £26,934 in
cash. Part of the explanation is that large sums
of profit have been consistently set aside against
depreciation and contingencies, and the contingencies
were so well guarded against that a while ago a
surplus of no less than £21,000 was shaken out of
the stocking. A very prudently-managed concern is
Wright Heaton’s —which, by the way, owns also all
the shares in the Victorian carrying business of
the McCulloch Co. The latter concern, though nowa-
days giving a steady 12j p.c. to this co. on the
£25,000 at which the business stands in the
parent’s books, is also understood to have tidy re-
serves of its own. And what the McCulloch Co.
owns by way of reserves, • the Wright-Heaton Co.
really owns, but doesn’t show.
The Civil Service Co-operative Society
of Victoria, Ltd. (Melbourne): —
Written To Re- Re-
Loss. Dividend. Off. serves, serves.
Jan., 1909 .. £220 Nil Nil £340
Deficit.
July, 1909 .. 3712 Nil Nil 3372
Profit.
Jan., 1910 .. 2034 -Nil Nil £2034 1338
July, 1910 . . 1694 Nil £356 1338
Capital forfeited and written off, £4062.
Jan., 1911 . . 935 Nil 935
Capital forfeited, £1214
Reserves.
July, 1911 . . 964 Nil 1207 971
Capital forfeited, £1125
Jan., 1912 . . 1345 Nil 1146 199 2295
Capital forfeited, £678 . . 2973
July, 1912 . . 231 Nil 1136 2068
Capital forfeited, £635 .. 2703
Loss. Deficit.
Jan., 1913 . . 2027 Nil 891 215
Capital forfeited, £3BB \
July, 1913 .. 5848 Nil 896 /
This co. goes on buying its experience, and the price
is pretty stiff. Men who for the most part hadn’t
run so much as a pie-still had the thing in hand, and
made the most glaring mistakes. The worst of them
was a crippling outlay on freehold property in a bad
position for the trade which the co. had hoped to do.
This property was sold some months ago, and the co.
did very well indeed to get out of it at a loss of
£679. As £22,000 is owing by the purchaser (or was
on July 31), the co.’s liabilities are still extensive—to
be exact, £45,687. During the past half-year the co.
has been in temporary premises, but the new stores,
in a much better position in Flinders-street, are now
available, so things may show an improvement from
this onward. The loss on the sale and sundry removal
exes. ( £391) contribute to the bad result shown
for the half-year. Still not too much need be hoped
for at the start; anyway, the co.’s two other branches
—the bakery and the store at Williamstown —both
showed losses for the half-year, so the co. evidently
suffers from something besides the faulty position of
the old “Central” premises. Capital is now £52,568;
it used to be considerably more, but penalties have
been exacted from shareholders for giving the co.
less than a certain amount of custom, and these
penalties have been charged against the shareholders’
interest in the business. With some of the heavy
debt wiped out. and the interest burden lessened, the
co. may presently be able to improve its merchandise
stock (which now represents only £19.310 of the
total capital and liabilities of £98,355), and then
customers may turn up in greater numbers and go
away better satisfied. In a couple of years or so
the management ought to be able to show whether
it has learnt enough to know how to run such a busi-
ness as this. If by that time substantial profits are
not being made out of a turnover at least twice as
great as it is at present (sales amounted to £70,745
in the six months), the entire management shouldn’t
wait any longer. The best thing for them to do then
would be to offer £2OOO a year to a manager from
some successful Private Enterprise business, and lie
very low themselves while he knocked things into
shape.
The Adelaide Co-operative Society :
Divi- Writ-
dend Bonus on ten Re-
Profits. (4 p.c.). Purchases. Off. serves.
Aug., ’O5. . £2399 £7BO 3§ p.c. = £1531 £251 £1332
Feb., ’06.. 3128 789 3§ „ „ 1560 523 1588
Aug., ’06.. 3150 808 3§ „ „ 1597 423 1910
Feb., ’07.. 2898 845 3j „ „ 1590 282 2091
Aug., ’07.. 3989 877 4i „ „ 1955 573 2675
Feb., ’OB.. 4138 935 5 „ „ 2385 610 2883
Aug., ’OB.. 4737 1007 5 „ „ 2790 581 3242
Feb., ’09.. 4255 1052 5 „ „ 3003 344 3098
Aug., ’09.. 4994 1103 5 „ „ 3182 632 3175
Feb., ’lO.. 4483 1179 5 „ „ 3253 294 2932
Aug., ’lO.. 5877 1284 5 „ „ 3658 464 3403
Feb., ’ll.. 6225 1425 5 „ „ 3872 539 3792
Aug., ’ll.. 4287 1537 3J „ „ 3129 522 2891
Feb., ’12.. 6743 1616 5 „ „ 4372 524 3122
Aug., ’12.. 8091 1652 5 ~ ~ 4744 865 3952
Feb., ’13.. 6568 1733 5 „ ~ 4705 510 3512
Aug., T 3.. 8288 1800 5 „ „ 4780 569 4651
Under the presidency of Harry I). Gell, one of the
oldest practising accountants in Adelaide, the manage-
ment of this nearly half-century-old society begins to
realise that its antediluvian constitution is a handi-
cap. Though it has greatly extended its business and
its business premises during the last few years, it
finds many of its departments cramped, and it badly
wants to spend another £lO,OOO or so in additions.
But “the financial aspect is all-important... .As you
are aware, our capital is not fixed stock, but with-
drawable funds and deposits, consequently very sensi-
tive and readily subject to variation.” The society
has £48,010 in merchandise stock (which might
take at least 12 months to get rid of at anything
like cost price, plus distribution exes.), and £39,700
in fixed property (which in a sluggish market might
take three or four years to realise), and £12,392 in
book debts (some of which might also take months
to collect) ; total of the three principal items,
£100,102. Yet all the fixed capital in the busi-
ness is the £4500 or so of reserves. Every penny
of the capital proper can be withdrawn (if it is
there to withdraw) on very short notice, amounting
practically to no notice at all. And money very
frequently is withdrawn—just as you would expect
it to be since it brings in only 4 p.c. Worse, it is
liable to be withdrawn in greatest quantities when
the stock which has been bought with it is hardest
to sell. It is unfair to the co-operative movement
to carry on a society under such conditions; and
certainly the shareholders could get a much better
return for their money if the thing were put on a
sound financial basis. The business is so good that
it shouldn’t be jeopardised in this way. During the
past six months the sales amounted to no less than
£110,353. The Sydney Civil Service Co-op. had
cash sales of £169,605 in its last half-year. Con-
sidering the size of Adelaide compared with Sydney,
the Adelaide Co-op. stores therefore do remarkably
well. The profit certainly is small; but in a co-
operative concern that is no sure test of the quality
of the management, because the purchasers may be
getting the advantage of their co-operation in the
shape of low prices. In the table some of the figures
in the last line are estimates only, since the amounts
to be called for as dividend and bonus won’t be
made known for 6 months; also £2OO has been
deducted from the profit to nay directors’ fees and
other trifles —charges which for some occult reason
are not put through the Profit and Loss account.
The Co-operative Box Co. of N. S.
Wales, which began with a deficit of £331, repre-
senting formation exes.:—
Written Towards De-
June, Loss. Dividends. Off. Reserves, ficit.
1910 .. - £331
1911 .. £2 £156 489
1912 . . 199 1154 1842
Profit.
1913 '.. 2471 1507 £964 878
During 1910 the principal butter-box makers of
N. S. AVales decided that competition wasn’t the
thing it had been cracked up to be; so they put
their heads together, and up went prices. The but-
ter barons bellowed louder than the deepest-chested
soprano in all their Cow chorus, but it was no good
—the prices kept up. This co-operative box co. was
then hatched, largely under the wing of the Coastal
Farmers’ Co-op. Society, which represents many of
the biggest butter 4'actories. There ought to have
been big profit in it straight away, because a trade
was ready-made. But the other box-makers got busy,
and word went round that the suppliers of Maori-
land white pine would stiffen the newcomer. In
trepidation the co., notwithstanding its small capital
(it had only £7686 at the end of its first year),
plunged in timber. In particular it bought over
3,000,000 ft. of just-as-good-as-white-pine from Japan.
But, as usual, the Japanese substitute wasn’t what
it was alleged to be, and the co. fell in badly. The
butter-makers wouldn’t have the boxes; so the co.
had to get rid of the stock of timber at a sacrifice.
The loss on this account is said to have been close on
£4OOO. Fortunately the M.L. white-pine suppliers
weren’t so foolish as to boycott this co.; so, ship-
ments having been arranged for, business was pushed
ahead, and in the past year 680.912 butter boxes and
165,288 rabbit-crates, besides sundries, were turned
out of the co.’s up-to-date factory. Meantime the
paid capital has been brought up to £13,845; and,
though it is still not enough, and though the liabili-
ties amount to £32,547, what might easily have
been a bad failure looks as though it is going to be
another co-operative success. The bulk of the liabili-
ties just mentioned are represented on the other side
by stocks of timber ( £23,324), and book debts and
freeholds account for the balance, leaving the exten-
sive plant to represent the capital. A prudent policy
is being adopted regarding the depreciation of plant,
and the profit thus written off is being applied
chiefly to the reduction of the debt. All or almost
all the shares are held by butter companies; so,
given good management, a very large turnover is
assured; and with good management and a large
turnover, the co-operators must draw big benefits
from these works in the shape of cheap boxes. And
in view of the competition of margarine—a competi-
tion which grows keener every day almost—Austra-
lian butter-makers want all the help they can get in
putting their product on the market.
0.T., Ltd., was formed in 1909 to take
over the cordial-making and distributing business
of J. Dixon and Co., of Prahran (Vic.). Capital
was £70,000, of which £60,944 was issued in pay-
ment for goodwill, trade marks and “bottles in
circulation.” Subject to some remarks hereunder,
this composite item is regarded as an intangible
asset, and consequently is reckoned as the deficit
with which the co. started. History has been made
by the co. in this manner:—
Towards De-
Profits. Dividends. Reserves, ficit.
June, 1909.. £60,944
Dec., 1909.. £5,072 6 p.c. = £4,200 £872 60,072
June, 1910.. 4,196 6 „ „ 4,200 60,076
Dec., 1910.. 5,795 7 „ „ 4,900 895 59,181
June, 1911.. 5,406 7\ „ „ 5,250 156 59,025
Goodwill items added, £28,920 .. 87,945
Premiums on new shares .. 126 87,819
June, 1912.. 18,707 10 p.c. = 11,585 7,122 80,697
•Tune, 1913.. 23,773 10 „ „ 13,045 10,728 69,969
The deficit or alleged deficit requires explanation.
The business is built on advertising—large adver-
tising in newspapers, on hoardings, and in any other
way that the ingenuity of the modern claquer can
devise. Unexpired contracts, etc., formed part of
the original goodwill. Also, something was men-
tioned above about “bottles in circulation.” The
bottles in which the “0.T.” and other cordials are sent
out remain the property of the co. Some of them,
of course, never return ; but', as an average, it is said
that such bottles are used three times. It is, how-
ever, impossible to closely estimate the value of
“bottles in circulation,” so this asset was thrown
into the heap, which is therefore rather less intan-
gible than it looks. Nothing, it will .be observed,
has been formally written off the very big item of
goodwill, etc., since the co. started: on the contrary,
when the original co., which had been formed to
secure the Australian rights and do the Australian
business, was extended to acquire the world’s rights,
i- 28,290 more dropped on to the heap. Apparently
this, or part of it, was money that had been spent
in advertising. A statement was made to the share-
holders that the first advertising burst in
Great Britain alone cost £30,000. Further,
the value of the “bottles in circulation,”
included in the goodwill item, has no doubt in-
creased; it is stated officially that over £50,000
has been spent in bottles since Dec., 1909, and while
it is not possible to say how many will come back,
the returns last year are understood to have saved
£BOOO in the bottle bill. With an increasing out-
put (and the accounts show that the trade must have
increased phenomenally) the saving should be much
greater this year. Therefore the goodwill item,
though it has not been reduced, has become of a
somewhat more tangible character. It can’t, of
course, be said that even now any part of the item
is gilt-edged. Supposing, for instance, that the co.
for any reason had to go into liquidation, the bottles
would be worth little or nothing as an asset. In
fact, there is only one gilt-edged thing about the
whole business, and that is the profits. Of assets
which are worth 20s. in the £ apart from the busi-
ness, there are only £63,808 net to represent
£132,121 of capital and the accumulated profits;
and that £63,808 includes stock, plant and book-
debts. The security for any capital put into this
investment is therefore very questionable; but for
the man who is prepared to stake his money on the
continued good management of the co., the return
is enticing, and the prospects even more enticing.
In the past two years, though the co. must have spent
many tens of thousands in introductory advertising cam-
paigns in Europe and Canada, the net profits were
£42,480, equal to an almost exact 17i p.c. p.a. on
the average capital of the co. during that period
( £123,150) ; and in seven years, if the co. put by
as much as it did last year after paying its 10 p.c.
dividend, it would be possible to wipe out the good-
will and dubious assets and replace the lot by cash
and tangible securities.
The business may last for seven years or it may
last for 70. There is no telling. The most pro-
mising feature about it is that the people who are
running it have been able to show such fine profits
while doing the expensive work of building it up.
Yet 12 months or so of bad management, 12 months
or so of failure to keep the goods in the public eye,
and most of the business would be likely to disap-
pear. You can, no doubt, sell (say) beer more or less
even if you don’t keep your special make before the
public eye. That is because you call for just plain
beer. But you don’t call for “0.T.” unless you have
been lured into calling for “0.T.,” and if you are
allowed to forget “0.T.” in nine cases out of 10
you will call for something else. That is the weak-
ness of the case. But in one respect the strength of
it is greater than it looks on the surface. If you
call for beer you are liable to get anybody’s beer.
If you call for “0.T.” you get only one “O.T.” —
there is no other make. No doubt substitutes are
possible. Probably 1000 men in Australia could make
a drink so like “0.T.” that the difference wouldn’t
matter. But the 1000 men don’t want to make the
substitute until a market has been created for the
original; and then it is too late to get the substi-
tute in. A thousand chemists could make something
every bit as good as (say) Beecham’s pills. But
Beecham goes on selling his pills by the million
because Beecham got his name known, and when the
just-as-good substitute arrived it was too late —
Beecham had the market.
* * * *
Berrima District Farm and Dairy Co.
(N.S.W.) :
Bonus to Written Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Suppliers. Off. serves.
1901 .. £2370 10 p.c. = £94 £lOlO £307 £4,730
1902 . . 3482 10 „ „ 94 2313 390 5,415
1903 . . 2609 10 „ „ 95 2000 368 5,561
1904 .. 2898 10 „ „ 98 2525 295 5,541
1905 . . 4073 10 ~ ~ 98 3130 342 6,044
1906 . . 4929 10 „ „ 99 3862 373 6,639
1907 . . 4394 10 „ ~ 99 3450 338 7,146
1908 .. 5967 10 ~ ~ 99 4240 320 8,454
1909 . . 4363 10 „ „ 99 1465 295 10,958
1910 . . 1591 10 „ „ 99 1251 275 10,924
1911 . . 1673 10 „ „ 99 1001 257 11,240
1912 .. 2361 10 „ „ 100 1420 655 11,426
June,
1913 . . 1190 138 12,478
Like most other butter factories and wholesale butter-
distributors this one is showing signs of alarm at
the rapidlv-increasing sales of margarine and other
substitutes" for cow-fat; and it whispers urgently
into the ear of its co-operative suppliers to “improve
the quality of export butter” —a line which this co.
handles very extensively, no less than £lOO,OOO
worth passing through it on the way to J. Bull’s
plate last season. Still, for the present, in spite
of margarine, commission earnings (at 3 p.c.) show
a steadv increase ; the total for the six months was
£5394 'as against £4580 for the corresponding half
of droughtier 1912. Liabilities as at June 30
amounted to £21,549, of which £16,772 was due
to sundry creditors —no doubt for the butter ship-
ments received from factories during the last few
davs of the term. Liquid assets on the same date
totalled £32,059, including £19,668 of book debts
—the latter remarkably little considering the turn-
over. The position is therefore strong, notwith-
standing the co.’s ridiculously small capital of
£lOl7. Dividends and bonuses are, as usual, held
over till the end of the year.
The People’s Prudential Assurance
Co. (Sydney) :
Expenses Total Assur-
and Divi- Out- ance
Aug., Income. Claims, dends. goings. Fund.
1902 ..£12,566 £5019 £6,537 £11,556 £2,831
1903 . . 12,684 4484 6,706 11,190 4,325
1904 . . 13,425 5273 6,689 11,962 5,788
1905 . . 13,956 5467 7,081 12,548 7,196
1906 . . 14,738 5871 7,060 12,931 9,003
1907 . . 15,919 6291 7,401 13,692 11,230
1908 .. 17,796 7041 8,094 15,135 13,891
1909 . . 18,644 7418 8,375 15,793 16,742
1910 .. 19,586 8291 8,443 16,734 19,594
1911 .. 21,165 8737 8,997 17,734 23.025
1912 .. 22,389 8144 9,633 17,777 27,637
1913 . . 24,070 8996 10,202 19,198 32,509
This co. deals largely in insurance side-lines —mostly
insurance with medical attendance attached. For
instance, under -one table it offers to a man entering
at 40, (1) medical attendance for himself and chil-
dren under 16; (2) £1 per week during total dis-
ablement through accident and various specified
diseases (typhoid, small-pox, pneumonia and half-a-
dozen others) ; and (3) £l5 at death—all for
eighteenpence a week. Under another table the wife
can also have medical benefits, and the family can
draw funeral pay on the death of a child —these
extras cost another 3d. per week. Probably the best
friendly society could offer more attractive benefits ;
it ought to be able to, at any rate, having no dividend
to pay. But since the friendly society has no dividend
to pay, it also has no capital to back up its under-
takings ; and though nowadays the Friendly Socie-
ties actuary, appointed by the State, sees to it that
friendly societies do not undertake to pay out more
than they can afford, there are still some advantages
in having a substantial guarantee behind any sort of
policy or contract. Also, there are thousands of
men who won’t take out and thousands more wh
won’t keep up any kind of insurance whatever unle c
they are badgered into it. No doubt this little m
deals mainly with the wives, and they are the neori
most interested, because it is the wife who stifle 6
most in case of no-insurance or under-insurant
Inevitably the expenses are high; compared with
income they work out as follows: ta
1906 ..£47 18 0 p.c. 1910 ..£43 2 2ne
1907 .. 46 9 9 „ 1911 .. 42 10 2
1908 .. 45 9 8 „ 1912 .. 43 n fi ”
1909 . . 44 18 4 „ 1913 .. 42 7 g ”
It is heartbreaking, no doubt, that of every weekly
eighteenpence paid by poor people for insurance
about eightpence should go in expenses; but there
is no apparent way to greatly cut down the cost
except by making insurance universal and compul
sory. The best-oif men in the country in this con-
nection are the miners, who are covered, so far as
accidents are concerned, through compulsory contri
butions, the employer being responsible for collecting
them. Until some such system is made universal
and its benefits are widened to include ordinary sick,
ness, such cos. as this one have their uses. it does
a little also in ordinary business, and that’s a good
thing, too; for insurance with a second-class co is
better than no insurance at all, and most of its
policy-holders would probably not be policy-holders at
all if this co.’s canvassers didn’t capture them
The share capital is £lO,OOO. On this a dividend
of 6i p.c. is paid. The funds (capital and insur-
ance reserve) are invested mostly in mortgages,
policy-loans and Government securities, all so far as
can be judged, sound enough.
* * * *
The Ballarat Gas Co. (Vic.) :
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends, serves, serves.
July, 1905 ..£4BOO 12 p.c. = £4050 £750 £65,257
Jan., 1906 .. 4455 12 ~ ~ 4050 405 65, 66-?
July, 1906 .. 4112 12 „ „ 4050 62 65,721
Jan., 1907 . . 4376 12 „ „ 4050 326 66!050
Julv, 1907 .. 3971 12 ~ ~ 4050 65 971
Jan., 1908 . . 3680 12 „ „ 4050 65’601
July, 1908 . . 3413 10 „ ~ 3375 38 65,639
Jan., 1909 . . 4019 10 „ „ 3375 644 66,283
July, 1909 .. 2319 10 „ „ 3375 65 ‘>27
Jan., 1910 . . 4425 10 „ „ 3375 1050 66',277
July, 1910 . . 3304 10 „ „ 3375 66,206
Jan., 1911 .. 4586 12 „ „ 4050 536 66,742
July, 1911 .. 3473 12 „ „ 4050 66,165
Jan., 1912 . . 4642 12 „ „ 4050 592 66,757
July, 1912 . . 3466 12 „ ~ 4050 66,173
Jan., 1913 . . 5520 12 ~ ~ 4050 1470 671643
July, 1913 .. 4730 12 „ ~ 4050 680 68,323
For many years before the term with which this table
opens, the eo. had paid 14 p.c.; but it is apparently
now only just about able to keep an even keel while
paying 12 p.c. There certainly is a gradual but slow
increase in the gas and other revenue; but costs
have crept up too. In five years what may be called
the cash position has changed in this wav:—
July, 1908. July, 1913.
Liquid assets .. .. £20,967 £23,134
Liabilities .. .. 1,275 787
Surplus .. .. £19,692 £22,347
That shows an improvement of £2655 in five years;
but during part of that time the dividend was down
to 10 p.c. And whether it means that the co.’s
true profits have been £2655 in excess of the divi-
dends depends wholly upon whether the outlay of cash
on repairs, renewals and additions has been equal
to the amount by which the plant and other assets
have depreciated. Assuming that the directors have
written off a fair thing to cover depreciation—and
they ought to know what is a fair thing by this
time —the co. has divided all but £3816 of its
true earnings since it left off paying a 14 p.c. divi-
dend 71 years ago, notwithstanding that for 21 years
it paid out only 10 p;c. to the shareholders. That
being so, it wouldn’t take much of a reverse to make
it impossible to continue the present rate of dividend.
The Footscray Gas Co. (Vic.) :
Writ- To
Dividends ten Re- Re-
June, Profits. During Year. Off. serves, serves.
1904 ..£2055 6 p.c. =£1440 £639 £76 £9,324
1905 . . 2341 6 „ „ 1440 512 389 9,713
1906 .. 2816 61 „ „ 1560 608 648 10,361
Premiums on new shares . . 221 10,582
1907 .. 2584 7 p.c. = 16 8 0 89 7 7 10,589
Premiums on new shares . . 290 10,879
1908 . . 2615 7 p.c. = 1912 94 609 11,488
Premiums on new shares . . 247 11,735
1909 . . 3527 7 p.c. = 2113 1174 240 11,975
1910 .. 2108 7 „ „ 2218 600 11,265
1911 . . 5183 6 „ „ 1920 1913 1350 12,615
1912 .. 5086 7 „ „ 2240 1249 1597 14,212
1913 .. 2573 3* „ „ 1120 1329 124 14,336
This is the directors’ report: “Full particulars of
the figures involved, and the renewal work done and
being done, will be embodied in the chairman’s re-
marks at the meeting. The business continues to be
maintained and the prospects are quite sound.”
It is an unsatisfactory way of doing things; state-
ments necessary to explain why the co. didn’t pay
any dividend in the past months (and appar-
ently isn’t going to pay any in the current
six months) ought to be set out in black-
and-white and made available to every share-
holder, and not whispered into the ear of
the few who may be at a meeting ; and there is no
certainty that a meeting will be held, anyway. As
they stand, the accounts tell very little, but they
suggest a few things. Hitherto there has been what
has been called a Manufacturing account. This is
now superseded by a Manufacturing and Distribu-
tion account, apparently so that money lately spent
on new mains, etc., may be charged against the
year’s revenue. As a matter of fact, the Reserve
Fund, made up of alleged profits set aside to cover
depreciation and not written off, ought to be suffi-
cient to pay for renewals, etc. ; and renewals, etc.,
ought to be paid for out of that Fund. If it isn’t
sufficient for the purpose, then the true profits have
hitherto been represented to be more than they
really have been. It certainly shows bad manage-
ment when one year’s revenue has to be so drawn
upon to pay for renewals that the profit is reduced
by one-third and the dividend has to be dropped.
Prospects may be as sound as the directors say they
are. In 10 years the revenue has been just doubled,
going from £7031 to £13,769, although capital
has been raised only from £24,000 to £32,000,
while liabilities have been increased by £6405 (from
£1986 to £8391). In other words £42,391 or
capital and public money is now producing a
of £13,769, whereas 10 years ago it took £25,98ti
of capital and public money to produce £7031-
Profits in proportion to capital ought therefore to
be considerably better than they were 10 years ago.
even allowing for somewhat higher costs; and tne
fact that, after paying a dividend of only 6 or <
per cent., the co. has to drop a distribution in orde
to make renewals, seems discreditable enough to ea
for a good deal of explanation. * #
Bendigo Gas Co. (Victoria) :
Writ-
ten To Re- R f ‘
Profits. Dividends. Off- serves, sene-
£ -t* £ * ■
Dec., ’05.. 2710 12 p.c. = 2520 200
June, ’06.. 2563 12 „ „ 2620 112
Dec., ’06.. 3271 12 „ „ 2520 751
June, ’07.. 2534 12 „ „ 2520 14 k
Dec., ’07.. 2576 12 „ „ 2520 200 |9-’ g
June, ’OB.. 2609 12 „ „ 2520 210
Dec., ’OB.. 2424 12 „ „ 2520 ~~
June, ’09.. 2752 12 „ „ 2520 192 40 19,**
Dec., ’09.. 2523 12 „ „ 2520 251
June, ’lO.. 2636 12 „ „ 2520 50 66 19,i
Dec., ’lO.. 2973 12 „ „ 2520 50 403 49,G4d
June, ’ll.. 2530 12 „ „ 2520 232 ™’ 4 g 7
Dec., ’ll.. 2396 10 „ „ 2100 50 246 W*.
.Tune, ’12.. 2168 10 „ ~2100 50 ™ ™’ 9fig
Dec., ’12.. 2433 10 „ ~ 2100 50 283 19,v
June! ’13.. 1974 Nil 50 1924 21,39/
This co. passes a dividend, too; but there s


J. Earle Hermann Ltd.
Head Office—l-9 Third Floor Suite,
109 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Also at
Collins House, Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
199 Winchester House, Old Broad
Street, LONDON, E.C.
And Continental Agencies.
CAPITAL £500,000
COMPANY and ESTATE MANAGERS, TRUS-
TEES. EXECUTORS, ATTORNEYS, UNDER-
WRITERS GUARANTORS, and REALTY
SPECIALISTS.
Flotations of approved Concerns undertaken.
FIRST-CLASS INTEREST-BEARING Indus-
trial and Commercial SHARE and DEBENTURE
Investments, to suit Clients.
Arrangements made for Sub-division and Sales
of Suburban and Country ESTA TES.
Correspondence Invited.
Managing Director J- EARLE HERMANN
MELBOURNE Director E. LINDEN
LONDON Manager .. JOHN GOODWYN, A.I.A.
FOj§
Established 34 Years.
THE Trustees, Executors
and Agency Co., Ltd.,
412 Collins St., Melbourne.
The Company acts as
EXECUTOR, TRUSTEE
ADMINISTRATOR, AGENT
Estates Administered Exceed £25,000,000.
Please call or write for Pamphlet.
JAS. BOUKOWMAN, General Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Manager.
A great mistake, when erecting new works or re-
arranging old ones, is often made in constructing the
building and installing machinery ere looking roundi
for means of transport of the raw material, half-
manufactured and finished goods. Messrs. Adolf
Bleichert and Co., of London, have issued various,
catalogues and leaflets, illustrating and describing a
few of the many transport systems and plants which,
they have supplied, and which show the solution of
the transport question and the advantages of em-
ploying such appliances. W. and J. Lempriere,.
Melbourne and Sydney, are the Australian representa-
tives, and would be pleased to hear from those in-
terested. A specially trained engineer is retained to-
consult and advise.*
* * * *
Mine managers and engineers contemplating Re-
inforced concrete construction should write for par-
ticulars of the Indented Steel Bar, which gives the
greatest bond, and is the strongest and cheapest re-
inforcement on the market. Used by the N. S.
Wales and Queensland railways for bridges, by the
Sydney Water and Sewerage Board for elevated re-
servoirs, by the N. S. Wales Government Architect,
and by all the leading architects. Should guaranteed
designs be required for concrete structures, our ex-
pert will be pleased to furnish plans and descrip-
tions. Apply, Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.*
Prom June to September the Bacchus Marsh Shire
Council (Vic.) crushed and spread 3000 cub. yards
of road metal, at an average cost of 2s. 6d. per cub.
yard, and the cost of the spalls per cub. yard aver-
aged 2s. 4d., making a total cost of 4s. lOd. per cub.
yard, broken and spread. Their last contract under
the handbreaking system amounted to 6s. 3d. per
cub. yard stacked on the roadside, and spreading Is. ;
total, 7s. 3d., as against 4s. lOd. — a saving of 2s. sd.
per cub. yard. This result was obtained by using a
Bigelow i6in. x 9in. Patent Stonecrusher, and the
Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
manufacturers of these breakers.* ['2
Extract from Financier, dated London, September
2, 1911: “The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society is well recognised as an institution which
typifies the enterprise and energy of the land of its
birth, and not only in Australasia but in Great
Britain and South Africa it has proved itself one
of the most progressive of the great Life Offices.”*
* * * *
PIONEER WOOD PIPE, used in and around the
mine, means a direct saving, cost of installation is
minimised, as also the cost of upkeep, for Wood
Pipe is not subject to the action of acids, minerals
or sulphur fumes. Catalogue from The Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., 57 York Street, Sydney
(Head Office).*
* * # *
Mr. R. O’Hara, Glen Innes, writes: “I have much
pleasure in advising you that I have now used the
3J-8.11.P. Hornsby Stationary Oil Engine for the
past eight seasons, shearing over 130,000 sheep, some
of the shearers tallying over 200 sheep per day, the
average 168 J per man. During the whole time I
have had the engine in use it has never given the
slightest trouble, and not a moment has been lost,
the shearers stating that they have never experienced
such a smooth-running engine.”—R. HORNSBY &
SONS, Ltd., Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane.*
The highest returns for all kinds of residues are
obtained from Harringtons Ltd. of 386 George
Street, Sydney, who buy large or small quantities of
jewellers’ sweeps, polishings, handwash and lemel,
process workers’ residues, plating baths and any
other materials containing gold, silver or platinum.
Assays are executed for jewellers within two or three
hours, and prospectors and others are assured of
immediate attention. AH kinds of analytical and
metallurgical work can be executed promptly and
advice given on all branches of industrial chemistry
and metallurgy. The whole of the work is directed
by a qualified analyst and metallurgist from Johnson
and Sons, London, Assayers and Refiners to the Bank
of England, H.M. Mint, the Council of India, etc.,
and who are acting as London agents for Harring-
tons Ltd. for the treatment of large parcels of
sweeps, residues, ores, etc. Direct shipment of such
lots can be arranged.*
* * * *
J. W. STYLES k SON, Machinery Auctioneers,.
Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 361 Collins;
Street (main entrance), Melbourne. (J. W. Styles,.
24 years expert salesman.)*
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? rfr
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.*
Messrs, Mephan Ferguson Proprietary, Limited, of
Footscray, Victoria, have secured the contract for
the supply of steel pipes required in connection with
the duplication of the Bombay Water Supply. The
contract amounts to over £226,000, and the pipes
to be used are of the locking bar type, of which Mr.
Mephan Ferguson is the inventor and patentee.
Engineers will be interested to note that this Aus-
tralian invention has been adopted in preference to
other classes of piping, after critical and searching
inquiries as to the merits of the various types of
water pipes made in the world. It is worthy of
note that all machinery required to carry out this
work has been designed and manufactured at the
firm’s Footscray Engineering Works, and will be
shipped to Bombay, where the pipes will be manu-
factured.*
♦ * * *
The H.M.A.S. Australia, which arrived in Sydney
last week, is fitted entirt y with Babcock and Wilcox
Water-tube Boilers, similar to the H.M.S. New Zea-
land and other Dreadnoughts recently built for the
Admiralty.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Assayers, Mine Managers and Prospectors write
to H. B. Silberberg and Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, and at Melbourne, for particulars concerning
mining requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s
disc pulverisers to 200 mesh ; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospectors’ balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles: chemicles; etc.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatins
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
good reason. For many years the co.’s office was
stuck away in Short-street. Lately a chance offered
to snap-up premises in Pall Mall, the main street,
and an attractive showroom has been fixed up there
—a necessity in these days of electric competition.
No satisfactory offer being got for the old premises
(now leased), the liabilities have naturally gone
up; six months ago they were £3406, and now they
are £6OBO. It was to help pay for the new pre-
mises and reduce the overdraft that the directors
decided to let a half-year go by without a dividend.
The co. can certainly do with the new business that
a showroom may bring; for this tale isn’t cheerful:
June, ’OB. Dec., ’l2. June, ’l3.
Liquid assets .. £7859 £4515 £4459
Liabilities . . .. 1293 4406 6081
Surplus assets . . £6566 £lO9
Excess liabilities .. £1622
And while the surplus assets were drawn upon to the
point almost of extinction before even the new pro-
perty was bought, any money that may have been
spent on additions barely kept the gas sales up to
the old standard. In the first half of 1908 receipts
from this source were ±.5546, and in the past nan-
year £5511. Nominally the co. has made surplus
"profits which have added to the reserves; but the
disquieting fact is that the co. can’t earn as much
with capital and increased reserves as it could be-
fore the reserves were increased. In all these cir-
cumstances it is obvious that even the usual 10 p.c.
dividend is on the liberal side.
* * * *
Motorbus Services, Ltd., issues a pros-
pectus in xVielbourne, asking tor subscriptions for
40,000 8 p.c. non-cumulative pref. 10s. shares and
50,000 ordinaries of 10s. The vendors take no cash,
but require 5000 ordinary and 5000 deferred shares.
The preis. are to take 8 p.c. ; then the ordinaries 10
p.c. ; tlnn the deterred rank pari jjassw with ordi-
naries. Apparently this means that the deferred
shares shall get 1 p.c. when and only when the
ordinaries get 11 p.c. ; 2 p.c. when they get 12 p.c.,
and so on. After the ordinaries have had 12 p.c.,
prefs. are to be entitled to 4 p.c. extra for every
1 p.c. more paid to ordinaries. The arrangement
is a fair enough division of profits. The vendors,
who naturally have very little to sell—simply con-
tracts for the supply of 10 chassis and other imple-
ments —take 5000 ordinaries and 6000 deferred shares ;
but the deferred shares will not draw anything until
the people who put up the money have got a very
solid dividend ; and then they don’t draw anything
outrageous, as the holders of deferred shares often do.
For their risk in issuing and advertising the pros-
pectus, etc., and for such services as they have ren-
dered, £2500 in ordinary shares can’t be regarded
as excessive payment. Speaking generally, then, the
terms of the prospectus as advertised are satisfac-
tory. The directors are George Godfrey, solicitor;
G. B. Dunn, grazier; J. H. Tait, one of the Tait
brothers, best known in connection with amusement
enterprises; H. P. Ham, sharebroker; and A. P.
Freeman, importer. Freeman is to be managing-
director. On the London experience, which is largely
relied upon to attract applications, there is big profit
ahead of the co. ; although, the business being prac-
tically new to Australia, no estimates are worth
much. The investor can only form an opinion as to
the demand for motor services in Melbourne, and,
if he feels that way, he can back it after satisfy-
ing himself that these are the right people to supply
the demand, assuming that it exists.
* * * *
The South Aus. Brewing Co. declares an
interim div. at the rate of 10 p.c. Till now the
co. has never paid that much since the first three
years of its existence (1888 onwards). That rate
was guaranteed by the promoters, and at first was
earned, but in the third year the promoters were
called on to make up the amount. Then the div.
fell to 7, next to 5, and in one dreadful half-year
there was none at all.
The Sydney Stock Exchange has given
retrospective effect to its very questionable regula-
tion authorising the committee to suspend contracts
entered into by its members. Already the men who
can’t deliver the Oxide Creeks they sold have had
the rule put into force in their favor. Writs are
talked of, and it would be a good thing if they
came to something and thus settled the legality or
otherwise of the unpleasant regulation.
The good shoot of ore stoped at the 90ft.
level of the Mineral Hill (lodide) is now proved at
190 ft. The western drive has so far been for 15ft. or
20ft. in first-class carbonate, which will probably
net £lO per ton or over; the eastern drive at the
same level (190 ft.) is a duffer. The western drive
js all in ore, and only one wall is showing, so the
body is wider than the drive. The fact of this ore
being struck at the 190 ft. level will give a new life
to the mine, which had been on very shaky legs the
last few months. #
The seven-year-old Bourke’s Hill, Emma-
ville f N.S.W.), has been notorious for in-and-out
running; but the old want-of-water trouble has, to
a great extent, been overcome by enlarging the
dams, and the scheme for tapping the Severn has
been knocked on the head —at any rate, until the
easement rights can be got for less. Last half-year
there was no trouble about water, and one of the
two plants was in good ground while the other was
making exes., at least; so the profit for the term
worked out at £7862. A fraction less than half the
proceeds covered all costs. The whole capital in the
business is £19,125 (45,000 shares of Bs. 6d. each) ,
£5625 went back to shareholders in the halt-year,
and there were enough net liquid assets on hand at
the end of the term to pay another £4500.
Adelaide is frantic for a gamble on the
new find near Ruby Well (W.A.). One syndicate has
already taken up something on the strength ot pot-
hole prospects, and others are being formed to get
hold of anything that is offering. Representatives ot
broken-down cos. are daily arriving, and one repre-
senting the Sweet William Consolidated has pegged
two quartz outcrops, and reported that he is negoti-
ating for the option of another. Meantime all sorts
of yarns are being spun about the richness ot the
find. No development worth speaking of has, how-
ever, been done, consequently it is too early to ex-
press any definite opinion about the field, good or
bad. All that can be said is that on surface appear-
ances, it isn’t likely to become a very big thing.
. '* * *
Great Unknown, at Marda (W.A.), has
been turned down by the Melbourne crowd that took
it under option a month or two ago. rhe local
paper says the owners are elated at getting the show
hack again, and advises Melbourne to send over a
man who knows a mine the next time it is on ttie
lookout for an attractive venture. Another expert
who advised the Bullrush Co. to leave the lease alone
was similarly ill-treated. In these circumstances the
mine itself must do any local talking that will be
seriously listened to.
Sand Queen (W.A.) has struck a parallel
2ft. reef worth £4 per ton in the shaft at 400 ft.
Every little helps, and in this instance it looks as
if the assistance will be permanent.
Malcolm Maclaren and Allan Davidson on
the geology of the West: The first general axiom in
prospecting is that search for auriferous deposits
should be conducted near contacts of granite and
greenstone or of porphyry dyke and greenstone—the
latter for preference. .. .General experience has
shown that the largest and richest gold deposits are
not associated with the strongest porphyry dykes.
They rather seem to occur just above or beyond the
point where the dyke runs to a feather
edge. Only very small dykes are found
near the Great Fingall ore deposit. It
therefore follows that most important dykes from
an economic point of view may never come to the
surface. They may be blind dykes. For this reason,
and since these are the most likely to be found on
the margins of the greenstone-belt, these margins
must be carefully searched for a long distance from
the granite contact. Every contact does not carry
gold, but the area likely to repay careful prospect-
ing is greatly restricted when the above conclusions
are taken into account.... It is not too much to say
that had a geological map showing all the porphyry
and porphyritic dykes of the region been available in
1893, every deposit now known would have been
discovered within three months, and thousands of
pounds worth of useless work avoided.
From Yilgarn (W.A.) : Corinthian North
is putting finishing touches to its slimes plant, and
getting ready to double its present gold output.
Costs are being pared to a fine point, and ore is
now being mined and binned for less than 4s. a
ton. The reef is big, and is being mined by open-
cutting. Marvel Loch has extracted sufficient from
the Comet option to meet the first instalment of
£l5OO on account of purchase, and as the co. has
the right to pay for the show in this way it will
probably do so. But shareholders must not build too
much on getting anything if the show is finally
acquired. Edna May is now crosscutting from its
new shaft at 150 ft., and expects to intersect the reef
about the end of October. Bullfinch Prop, is steadily
adding to its bank balance, and will pay either Is.
next month or 2s. at the end of the year. The mine
is still said to be a clear two years ahead of the
mill, which, if true, means that there is at least
£200,000 profit in sight. A little outside interest
is now being taken in the field. Eastern States
capital has been put up to work the Myrtle Central
at Weston’s and some Parker’s Range shows, and
Perth is finding money for the Maori Lass. Several
other mines in need of backing are being nibbled at.
Interest in the old Moonlight Lead at
Kanowna (W.A.) has been revived by the reported
discovery of a payable branch. The new find is about
50ft. away from the parent wash, and 80 loads of
it averaged 13dwt. over the plates. Prospecting is
now in progress some distance south of the spot
where the discovery was made. Apropos Kanowna
leads, the official organ of the London undertakers —
the Shroud —tells a gruesome story of coffins of
dead diggers being dug un along the Cemetery lead
and the wood used as fuel to boil the billies of the
live ones. The yarn is silly rubbish.
* * * *
Boulder Perseverance (W.A.) reports for
the quarter ended June that the development of
“Furness” and “D” lodes has been continued with
success. In several instances where drives showed
poor values leading stopes have disclosed much better
ore. The average breaking value was 6.57dwt., as
compared with 6.39dwt. for the previous quarter;
and as the grade of the ore treated during the June
quarter was below the average of the broken-ore
reserves, an increase in the average value of the
stone remaining in the stopes has resulted. The find-
ing of an eastern branch of the Lake View lode at
2050 ft. is considered important, and gives encourage-
ment to resume work in the bottom of the mine.
Hainan’s Prop, has emerged and taken
an option on the Harbor Lights at Gwalia (W.A.).
Associated Northern had this show on approval for
a time, but gave it up after doing some drilling and
other work. Of the £500,000 capital that the
Hannan’s Prop, once had, all that remains is a
£17,000 book value interest in the Phcenix Mines,
Cornwall, and a little cash. It also has some
creditors. , ,
The promoter and the hardy vendor in
the Edna Mav Central float in Melbourne take a first
cut of 26,000 free shares out of the total issue of
50,000 and a second cut of £1250. The cash
should come in handv now that free shares are so
tied up bv Stock Exchange rules. The new co. starts
with £5OOO cash for equipment, and half that sum
for development. It has plenty of land to graze
over, and it wanders just now eastward on the
continuation of the Edna May shoot. Most people
thought that this shoot pitched south from the
Central lease into the Edna, but the world now rubs
its nose in surprise to find that a winze 250 ft. north-
east from the Edna boundary pans 30dwt. stuff. The
bulk sampling done so far is represented by 750
tons sent through the battery for an average of
6.Bdwt„ with 4dwt. in the tails. This is skmi milk
compared with the Edna’s return of 45130 z. for
3776 tons ; but A. E. Morgans isn t daunted by
this, and announces that the prospective value of
the Central is greater than that of the Edna May.
’The danger for both lies in the existence of granite
underneath the decomposed formation Morgans
plumps for a porphyritic rock, but Kalgoorlie mas
been selling Ednas on the granite theory. Only time
and sinking will settle all doubts.
Loans amounting to £lO,BOl wore granted
to leaseholders bv the Westralian Mines Department
during the vear ended June 30, while miscellaneous
expenditure' (including £ 6708 for purchased tail-
ings and £1175 subsidies to batteries) totalled
£l4 619 The amount expended on the erection of
State batteries for the same period aggregated
£26,754. , • »
Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) is officially said
to be “looking very satisfactory.” The mam south
workings at No. 19 level are reported to be ex-
tremelv well, and further south at this depth the
ore first disclosed by diamond drilling, and now
being driven on. is highly spoken of. No. 18 level
is also referred to in admiring terms Working
costs came down to 17s. last month, and a further
reduction is promised. # #
“Old Pick” : For hide give me the London
mining sharper. Some time ago a mining nal, being
in London, let out that he could command a fair
thing in Bananaland. Everv scrap of information
was wormed out of him. To pay expenses at this
end £125 was sent; but mv pals turned up noses
at the blatant conditions. The London People, how-
ever, knew the weak spot, and applied to the
Bananaland Mines office for forfeiture, and the Dent,
obliged them—it would stand on its head to oblige
“London investors.” Thus my show went, after
veers of toil and cash. The “London investors
formed a company. They really had no cash worth
speaking of, but they expended £1172, and this is
how they did it (1 omit shillings and pence) :
London cables, £47; office accommodation, £170;
stationery and postage, £l2; printing and typing,
£32; hire of hall, £5; legal charges, £136; Aus-
tralian legal charges, £100; bank charges, £6;
report charges, £B4; rents, £170; cables, £27;
mines investigation, £384. Total, £1172. The
office which cost £l7O could hold about a small
table and three chairs. This is the second trick of
the same sort that “London investors” have played
on me. The public of which Mr. John Bull is the
representative still says that mining does not pay.
How can it?
Gilmore’s (N.Q.) is turning over its
dump to help feed the Gurrumbah battery, about six
miles away. A profit should result, but as there are
90,000 shares there won’t be much for each. Gur-
rumbah mill was originally erected to crush for
Dalziell’s; but this, like most tin shows, had a
short life; hence this search in odd corners for any-
thing that will pay to crush.
Last month Hampden-Cloncurry (Q.)
treated 5160 tons for 503 tons copper, 141 oz. gold,
and 43360 z. silver—-say, 9f p.c. copper, and from 4s.
to ss. of precious metals per ton of ore; and there
is nothing glittering in that. Reports from the
Wallaroo and Macgregor group are dismal reading.
The Duchess is still a good little mine, but it has
to carry too big a deadweight, and even its reserves
are theoretical because of the blanks in its ore
bodies. Mostly you know what ore you’ve got when
it is exposed on three sides, but here you are liable
to be much over the mark.
With the terse comment that “everybody’s
doing it,” a correspondent reports that still another
senior man of the Mount Morgan staff has just
quitted. This last to go, Joseph Ititchin, becomes
mechanical engineer at the Mammoth.
From the vestibule: Time Australian
speculators arranged for their own official quotes from
London, and more than time for the Australian
dailies to get cabled London quotes and publish them
for Australians’ protection. All London mining
quotations are of one inspiration—-to make the
market for the London office that sends them—
cabling alleged quotations of,' say, Hampden at
375. 6d., and at the same moment cabling selling
orders for Hampdens at 365. 6d. Elliott, Morgans
and other big Australian lines are treated the same
way, and some days the quote for one stock or
other is suppressed absolutely. Oxide Options at
£35 represents 11s. Bd. per share for Oxide Mines,
Ltd., and the same figure for the stock of the new
half-million London co. Of this half-million co. the
London gang gets 330,000 for £llO,OOO, or 6s. Bd.
a share. That isn’t enough for these cormorants;
they want all the 170,000 shares that are coming to
Australia, and there is a parcel of 45,000 shares
under offer in London at par. By depressing the
Option shares to £35 (= 11s. Bd.) they have a chance
of squeezing the price of the 45,000. So the old
shares (London register) haven’t been quoted to
Australia for months. Yet for four days running a
few weeks ago these shares were sold at 255., equal
to £75 for Oxide Option shares. But the Aus-
tralian doesn’t find that quotation for a month, and
during that time he has been scared into selling
at 11s. Bd. (=£3s for Option shares). The delays,
the loaded reports, the leakage of information and
other things make Oxide the unluckiest copper mine
in Australia. English capital is rapidly becoming
as great a curse to Australian copper mining as
English management has nearly always been. The
Australian makes a prospecting show into a mine;
then Throgmorton-street tries to buy the mine for
the price of a prospecting show, and goes to any
meanness to squeeze compliance. In the Oxide case,
too, there is a serious discrepancy in the dumps.
The old Australian co. retains all ore over 20 p.c. as
firsts, the new co. taking the seconds; and now it is
alleged that somehow the ore has got mixed. How-
ever, something definite must occur soon, as
London wants to get Europe on the feed. When it
finds that it cannot get any more Australian shares,
or that it has all that it wants, the new issue will
be boomed —and then, no doubt, slumped so violently
that the crack will be heard at Oodnadatta. It’s a
sick business going after this “English capital,” any-
way. The new Oxide Co. will have of its half-
million only 20 p.c. in real money ; the rest is hot
air ’ *
Brilliant Extended, Charters Towers, has
declared a dividend of 6d., payable October 23. Last
month, the best for some time, 2050 tons were
crushed for £4510, and 2100 tons of sand was
cyanided for £1278. The profit was £1847. This
mine has produced £60,116 this year (nine months)
from 19,122 tons of stone and some thousands of
tons of tailings. Two dividends have been declared,
totalling £12,250. The market value is about 3s. on
250,000 shares (£37,250); but most of this value is
speculative, as reserves are low, and the outlook for
profit-making not very bright on account of extremely
variable values.
» * * *
Eyes at Bendigo watch Golden Pyke, lying
between the Constellation and the Golden Age.
It is a pocket-handkerchief claim compared with its
neighbors, but its workings in the shallow ground,
carried up to within a few feet of the
boundary fences on each side, show such
nice gold that shilling divs. come round
almost as regularly as the Sunday plate. A
lot of the Pyke gold is associated with faulting in
the claim, but stone in the 447 ft. level north seems
to promise a lot of profits. Still the reef is narrow,
and one must always remember that more geese are
made into swans at Bendigo than on any other
goldfield in the #
After a long tussle with the dead weights
of the Mines Department, the Hansel Munday, which
consists of the remnants of the Chaffinch, gets its
subsidv for trying to find gold on the outside
Carshalton line at Bendigo. The co., which hails
from Adelaide, started with £lO,OOO and a halo
bestowed on it bv the Bendigo Mine Managers Asso-
ciation and “Geology” Dunn. The Mines Department
was, however, inclined to view the Adelaide co. as
an intruder, and so the subsidy, which had been
dangled before its nose to induce it to put its money
into Victorian mining:, was hung: up. Bendig:o pres-
sure in the end has induced Billson to knock horse-
sense into his drearv subordinates. So the money
passes on, but not till the name of the Department
is made smelly in the City of Churches. #
If the crowd which wants to bump Harry
Dodd and his pals from the Board of the Cathcart.
Ararat, don’t look slick, there won t be even Board
fees left in the locker. The dividend just declared
ate up all the cash credit except about £3OO. this
is a pretty clean sweep even for a Melbourne alluvial
co There may be a mine reserve, or there may
no* and there certainly are a few good yields to
come, but there isn’t much of a reserve of wash to
draw on, nor is the plant at the No. 2 shaft now
available for a liquidation div. Not that that is a
valid reason why the old family party should be left
to rake in the undertaker’s fees when the hearse
draws up at the Cathcart door. #
Wilkinson and Co., of Stawell (Tie-),
working on Hampshire Hill, have demonstrated that
the modern system of crushing with cyanide solution
instead of water is applicable to the low-grade
oxidised ores of the district. For about two years
their 10-head mill and cyanide plant have keen
treating an average of about 50 tons a day Every
ounce of gold has been saved by the cyanide solu-
tion, and the residues rarely contain more than 2s.
bv fire assay. Material is at present being obtained
bv surface open-cutting, but large bodies of con-
siderably richer ore have been proved underground,
in proximity to old workings from which hundreds
of thousands of tons of richer stuff were mined when
Stawell was one of Australia’s big goldfields. Large
quantities of ore containing tine gold were rejected by
old-time miners, just as the surface stuff already
treated by the plant was rejected. Naturally it is
rather more expensive to mine and raise the under-
ground material than that which can be seen in the
open-cut, but with proper equipment the difference
would be trifling. The venture has done valuable
service to Stawell by proving, not only the existence
of so much auriferous material, but that so econo-
mical an extraction can be obtained by the use of
cyanide.
The Australian tin-hunting co. draws
blanks as well as prizes in Malaya. A Melbourne
co. handed over 65,000 shares out of 108,000 issued
to the vendors of the Hindu Choung, in Lower
Burmah, besides £2600 cash; and £lOOO was to
come out of first profits. The £lOOO is still un-
paid. The ground has been better lately, and worth
nearly Jib. per yard ; but there is no profit to speak
of even in that. And there’s an accumulated loss
of £4788 to work off, besides.


✓
C»ld#bTCW>t'** K
HEERINGI
HEERING’S
COPENHAGEN
CHERRY
BRANDY.
Est. 1818.
FARMER’S
HAIRDRESSING ROOMS
FOR LADIES
Where Prices are
Most Moderate for
High-class WorK.
HAIRDRESSING.
Plain 2/6
With Marcel Waving 4/fi
Marcel Waving *> /ft
cutting ;; f/y
Singeing " j/"
Shampooing 2/6
MASSAGE.
Face (one treatment) 2/6
£°nrse of 9 £l/1/-
Manicuring
FARMER’S, SYDNEI
Pitt. Market & George Streets
BUCHANAN’S
Black. (Si White
m
A GRAND SPIRIT
“ Black & White ” is indeed a “ grand spirit.”
Matured for years in Scotland before shipment.
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, October 6, 1913.
My Dear A him, —
The Harbor fluttered a mile or two of
canv"« on a mosquito fleet that sailed forth
to meet our Fleet. On Garden Island a large
assembly of every brand of defender, from
boys of 14 years to veterans rising 80,
patiently waited for the streak of smoke on
the eastern sky on October 4. The water
was as smooth as a hypocrite. Out of the
thin morning haze the Australia, a fearsome-
looking sea-monster, lizard grey, came
sidling round Rradle.v’s Head. The Mel-
bourne is a shade or two darker in the color
of its hide. The smaller Sydney has a pert
expression compared to the grim Australia.
The old Encounter puffed along in the line
of the new Armada. Destroyers Yarra,
Warrego and Parramatta were also amongst
those present at our first sea-dogs’ At Home
in Port Jackson.
The Admirable King-Hall came to the
rescue of the roofless G.-G. Denmans, pre-
sumably at some slight inconvenience to him-
self, during a wild rush of official calls, ban-
quets, morning and afternoon prayer, etc.
His Epaulets was lucky to have the loyal
support of his faithful shadow, Flag-Loo-
tenant Seton, in this crisis. A sudden strike
in an Admiral’s Help Department during
the present Meeting show would have been
about the dead end to some of the naval
frolics of this week.
The Commonwealth banquet to our own
Admiral Patey and his tars —or some of them
—was a profusely decorative affair. A hun-
dred or two cards of invitation had bidden a
corresponding number of spectators to the
galleries. They were mostly of the female
persuasion. Very few men will sit for three
hours or so to watch other men knife and
fork their way through every species of food
from the unhappy oyster (I suppose the
oyster is shelled to weep tearful pearls over
his own inevitable doom) to the coffee dregs.
Women in various sartorial schemes, from a
macintosh and paddy hat —the evening being
damp—to the festive bare neck and stately
plumed head of Dora Ohflsen, craned their
necks to watch the sea-lions lap up their
soup just as the merman drinks up oceans.
Right in the centre of the Australia table
were the Gee-Gee, the Admirals, ex-Premier
Andrew Fisher, Premier Joe Cook, and all
the pomp and circumstance of the Australian
Ministry. Governor Strickland was sup-
ported on his left elbow by the King-Hall
water-jug, and on the other side of this tee-
total trophy was Commonwealth Fisher’s
greyhound figure. His Anglican Legs, who
was more or less stranded on the right of
Mr. Willie Kelly’s most impressive Oxford
manner, said grace. It seemed to begin and
end with “Dearly beloved,” but there may
have been some grateful mention of food
that didn’t reach the gallery.
The voice of authority had said in tones
like the Ten Commandments, that no per-
son or persons were to tramp or sit in that
portion of the Northern Gallery which was
almost over the pates of the star guests at
the Australia table. In a weak moment
the sentries who were appointed to guard
this space, vanished. When they returned
(presumably after being shot for desertion)
an evening dress brigade was firmly seated
in the forbidden spot. Smiles, remon-
strances, argument, wrath —no good. Sen-
tries, who were of the bluejacket order,
apologised, but withdrew the chairs. They
were again, I believe, shot for desertion.
Not knowing the determination of Woman
to sit where she pleases on these occasions,
the sentries again disappeared. They were
shot some more for desertion. Ladies, all
smiles, firmly replaced the Austrian legs
and began to enjoy themselves. Another
and more exciting skirmish gave exquisite
delight to the spectators, who were growing
weary of watching relays of food work its
way to the official maw. After about one
hour of argument with exploring female
parties in full warpaint, the tars got an
idea. They threw up barricades of chairs
which no woman in a fashion abL skirt
could leap over, and a great Peace pre-
vailed. After that the inefficient warriors
were buried for desertion, incapacity and
neglect of duty. They deserved it.
Waratahs bobbed in the trellis that sur-
rounded the Federal banquet to our Fleet.
The dais was a thicket of bush in which
bloomed the kangaroo and emu. These
effigies were life-size. The stuffed lion was
mounted in the centre on his old stand, the
Union Jack. He had sudden spasms from
time to time —possibly when a bandsman
tickled his tail —and bobbed his head like a
mandarin at Court. Ex-Defence Minister
Pearce and his former chief had to play
second fiddle in the moment that saw the
fruition of their splendid policy—an Aus-
tralian navy hugging the shores of Sydney
Harbor. “Andy,” however, had the best of
it, for he had to follow Joseph Cook’s rather
thin platitudes about the good old flag.
The ex-Premier made the best speech of the
evening, and had an amazing uproar of
welcome from a conservative company.
The Gee-Gee got a welcome that kept him
bowing like a prima donna before he cleared
his throat to respond. Admiral Patey, a
lean, good-looking Lewis Waller type of
male, was too bashful when the din of
applause had come to an end, to say much.
He admitted between his blushes, that he
was no speaker—-here he searched his notes
for help—but would endeavor —more notes
—to do his best in other ways to make up
for this shortcoming.
Mixed worship prevailed in the Town Hall
on Sunday afternoon. Gee-Gee Denman,
sub-Excellency Strickland, a Help or two, the
old Admirable King-Hall, the new war-dog
Patey, and a helping from the Methodist,
Raptist and Scotchbyterian churches were
present on the platform. The Anglican Legs
of Sydney’s boyish Dean Talbot mingled in
the prayerful throng. His partial gaiters,
however, only got a word in edgeways, at
the dead finish. Lace ruffles and gowns —
the Scotchbyterian Moderator Smith was
one of the beaux of the party —bustled about,
till “God Save” smote the air. Mayor
Cocks, in all his municipal splendor, held the
fort in the centre of these Hallelujah pro-
ceedings. The Sorrows of Satan, sit-
ting outside with a lost job and a
crushed tail, must have been many.
The Town Hall was packed for this
psalmful occasion, and those who came
to pray too late had to mutter by themselves
on the kerbstone. The huge voice of
Parson Ferguson reached to the uttermost
end of the building.
Miss Eadith Walker is one of the chaperons
who will command five or six damsels at the
Strickland’s hop to Admiral Patey’s young
gentlemen.
Mrs. J. H. P. Murray and youngsters
have arrived here from Papua. Unless they
revoke their original plan, they’ll summer in
the Apple Island, and return to Port
Moresby in the autumn of 1914.
A wandering Australian, just back from
the wilds of Papua, declares that Lieut.-
Governor Murray, of that sun-baked terri-
tory, must be in fine training for a walking
tour round the earth. Since the lamented
loss of the useful tropic craft Merrie Eng-
land, the necessarily athletic Murray has to
administer the affairs of his piebald kingdom
per boot. If J.H.P. has to inquire into the
morals of a cannibal king 200 miles or so
away from Moresby, he just walks there.
Apparently there is not enough money to
make roads. Most of the present tracks, says
the wanderer, are chiefly suited to a fly or an
exploring gang of mosquitoes, or a ballet
dancer in good trim. “That the Administra-
tor should have to walk all over a territory
large enough to hold Victoria, and hot enough
to steam weaklings, is a very slight token
of esteem from the Commonwealth. When
I left Moresby Judge Murray was setting
out on one of his pedestrian tours to the
other side of Papua.”
The first day of the Spring Meeting was
mixed up with the arrival of our Fleet, and
the arms and legs of the 60,000 or more
persons who were present at Randwick. A
more or less bruised impression of the
dresses present is all that remains to those
who got into the Great Struggle for the
departing trams. When at least 50,000 per-
sons —the other 10,000 represent the cautious
souls who fled before the finish —make a
bold attempt to climb the breakneck exit
from Randwick at or about the same time,
the primeval savage gets on top. Some
day some genius may devise a better way out
of Randwick’s racing gates than a murder-
ous struggle on a long fight of wooden steps.
G.-G. Denman and his recently-returned
lady camped for a time in the vice-regal
pen in the roofless grandstand. What Mel-
bourne would do if Ryron Moore tore the
roof off the Flemington stand, and got into
the middle of reconstructing the seating-shed
accommodation while a Cup meeting was
due, no man knoweth. We take things more
easily on this sea-lapped shore. Lady Den-
man’s filmy cream gown and black, lacy-
looking hat formed a simple combination
compared to some of the weird creations that
strutted along the lawn. Aides Rarttelot
and Rurnham anchored behind their lord,
for a brief interval. Mrs. Harold Pearson,
a good-looking, dark-eyed woman in black,
had the smallest thing in V fronts edged
with a saucy white frill. As this London lady
Ims just stepped ashore, inquiring females
crushed round the vice-regal pen to examine
her taste in hats. Merely a small, squashed
crown of rose silk, with a narrow black brim
and a feathery tuft behind- The Hon.
Alicia Hugesson is one of the few new arri-
vals from England’s dressy Rest Setters who
wears her own complexion. She has the
vivid natural bloom of a cabbage rose, and
the glare of the sunshine can’t do it any
damage. Harold Pearson, M.P., is a fine,
manly likeness of his sister, the G.-G.’s
sparkling lady. Change their hats and you’d
hardly know which from the other if the
gas jet was working half-time. The tall
Rarttelot lady, in blue, was pursued by a
dress artist who tried to sketch her clothes
in a standing-up position. Rut the ladv sat
down so that it wasn’t easy. Many
of the Knox and Dangar clans, and a few
McMasters and McPhillamys concentrated in
the members’ stand. One of the Philip Mor-
ton girls, in a floppy pink gown, had pink
bows like small windmill sails at the back
of her youthful head. Etta Norris, under a
blush-pink hat, was frocked in a white lin-
gerie gown of exceeding beauty. The pretty
Mrs. Sydney Jamieson was another white
lingerie lady. Senator Gould trotted an
angular daughter across the lawn. The X-
ray skirt was mostly buried in the dense
crowd, but a stirring sample rose to the
surface now and again. It had a slender red
sash, with a tassel at the end, between a
very obvious leg and the public gaze. The
Luscombe Newmans strolled through a wall
of best clothes, and were promptly swallowed
in a mass of moving millinery. Mrs. Arthur
Allen had a wonderful splash of bright blue
feathers on top of her hat. As feathers they
were It. The Rarton dame was clad in
snail grey. W. G. Layton steered his slender
lady through an apparently impenetrable
hedge of our Rest People, and landed her
intact on the outworks of the members’
pagoda. The very long, thin feather is one
of the features of race millinery. When
it waves its phantom fronds about one foot
above hat level, and the tulle verandah on
the brim waggles in unison, the wearer gets
some fun for her money.
Mrs. H. Y. Rraddon is collecting a posy
of attractive damsels —by authority—to take
under her wing to Government House hop.
Hubby 11. Y. is a clever son of the Rraddon
Riot politician, and a sub-head of Dalgety’s
firm in this town. The Rraddon lady is so
popular that about 100 young maidens have
been falling on her neck at rapid intervals
in the hope of being amongst the chosen
six. Two or three debutantes are booked
to take part in this chaperon’s impressive
descent on Cranbrook. The party will have
danced the soles off its satin slippers before
this meets your blue and shining eye.
A Gilgandra girl who joined the festive
throng during the sub-royal junketing in
those parts tells me this: “Gilgandra’s great-
est trouble before the ball was the Who’s
Who of the vice-regal lancers. The local peer-
age, or squattocracy, the cocky farmer’s lady,
and the townsfolks were, to a woman, de-
termined to shake a foot in the Governor’s
set. The friction over this event threatened
to make about 18 “leading” families, a dozen
rival clans, and some of the business folks’
womenkind enemies for life. Mrs. Peet,
wife of a local medico, worked hard for the
ball itself, and a few strenuous helpers
vowed to make Gilgandra do itself proud
or perish by the wayside. Rut the general-
issimo who finally settled the Who’s
Who squabble was Mrs. Trefld. After
pouring a few barrels of oil on the
battered waters, Mrs. Umpire Treflff
decided that everyone, except the town
band, and a few other land-marks,
should take part in the Lancers. It was
an exhilarating sight, I can tell you, to see
a grand chain in which Governor Strickland
was stepping out at one end of the hall
while two-thirds of the population (or there-
abouts) were prancing round the other
end. The sides of the Lancers ran up either
half of the floor space. Practically it was
one set of vice-regal glitter, and great was
the joy thereof.”
Mrs. Sullivan, Coonamble’s Mayoress, is
a pretty little woman, with considerable
tact. No hair-pulling occurred over her in-
alienable right to twirl round with Governor
Strickland at the recent ball in that town.
“Mr. Mayor,” says a - correspondent, “fol-
lows the thrilling occupation of running a
country paper besides being in charge of
the municipal chair, so he has no time to
squabble over the complications of social
dog-fights. Coonamble in consequence pulled
through the sub-royal visit with no cracking
of skulls. Lady Edeline shook the hand
(assorted sizes) of about 80 per cent, of
the feminine population of the district. This
event palpitated in the state car of Mr.
Johnson’s Short of Trucks rolling stock.
The semi-invalid Presence was rushed by
every other woman who could drag her
hands into a pair of new gloves in time for
the performance. A score or two of raging
lovalists tore madly trainwards, laden with
gallons of water to boil for tea in or near
the vicinity of the railway chariot. Water
enough to drown the whole party was arriv-
ing per billy, when some local authority
remarked that no aquatic sports were on
the reception programme. Tea was made
after all by the gallon, and any member of
the company who couldn’t tip her cup in
the Presence, squeezed in to grip the vice-
regal finger later on. The Strickland lady
seemed to like the picnic, and got into such
form that she sent for as many school-chil-
dren as time and space would allow. When
the youngsters flocked into the car they were
handed boxes of extra special sweets that
had travelled from Sydney for their benefit
amongst Mrs. Governor’s personal effects.
Thev retired with a stunned expression and
haven’t got over the shock yet.”
Mrs. Gordon Wesche, just back from
Yewrope with a pile of new frocks, is one
of the matrons who are going to extend the
finger of welcome at one of the innumerable
dances in this congested week. Mrs. Alfred
Turnbull. Mrs. Edward Jenkins and Mrs.
R. H. Dangar are included in the list of
dames responsible for this frivol.
The wedding of the late Justice R. E.
O’Connor’s eldest daughter, Winifred, to a son
of the late Russian Raron Miklouho-Maelay
was a ouiet familv affair. The groom’s
mother is a daughter of the recent John
Robertson, and is one of the most attractive
matrons: of her age you’ll meet in a long
days motor-trip. The Russian papa wVm
was a keen naturalist, had a well-stocke
museum underneath his one-time residence 7
Watson s Kay This cottage was a roomy
bungalow built on stone piles. For V eaV
after it passed into the possession of
military authorities, timid nursemaids use]
to tell tales of the ghosts of the dead-and
gone Maclay’s fossils, that used to shriek
in the ex-museum cellar under the floor
Some strong-minded tenant finally closed the
place from the evening parties of the innu
merable Watson Kay cats, and the ghosts
were heard no more. Maclay pare was not
a very moneyed nobleman. Roth his sons
are styled barons. All their male descend
ants will be barons, also. Another genera
tion in N.S.W. will be able to decide whether
the Continental notion of strewing titles
without the wherewithal to baron and baron-
ess on is a good commercial scheme. Nor-
way had 1100 kings once, and a lot of them
had to go fishing for a livelihood when the
piracy business was slack, and in the days
when Germany had 2000 sovereigns, many
of the royal families made a very precarious
crust by bushranging. Too many great men
may be a burden.
Sydney’s Gaud Mayor burst through the
civic preparations for the Fleet on Thurs-
day afternoon, and took the gilt-legged chair
on the stage of Her Majesty’s Theatre. The
notion is to ear-mark October 18 as Rose
Day. Hugh Ward is the godfather of this
idea. The United Charities, which benefit
by this street collection, have yawning cof-
fers which are not touched by 'the Hospital
Saturday Fund. The novelty of getting a
rose for, say, half a crown or threepence, or
a sovereign or more, may stir the public
pulse and drag a few thousand pounds out
of the same old place—the public pocket.
No less than 56 charities in this town are
out-at-elbows and too feeble in the wind to
yell for help. So the Rose ladies are going
to do business for them. Secretary Upjohn
will welcome volunteers. If you have no
roses of your own, climb over your neigh-
bor’s garden fence on October 17. If he
catches you in the act, ask for the best roses
he grows, and send them along.
Now we are going to establish Potato Day
and Cauliflower Day, and Strawberry Day
will follow.
Actor Percy flung a challenge in the front
teeth of the sporting fraternity, at the Rose
Day meeting. He will lead to death or a
black eye or a shattered corn, any team of
mummers against any phalanx of ping-pong,
football, or other players or gladiators, and
wipe them off the earth. In the cause
of charity he will fight with the axe,
the bulldog or the cestus. The Agricultural
Show Ground is the plot of earth where this
tournament will occur. Decorated cars are
going to trundle out to the show on October
18. Musical items top-dressed the gathering
in Her Majesty’s Theatre.
Edith and Aline Cusack are displaying
their combined attacks on Art in 76 oil and
water-color exhibits. Francis Suttor, M.L.C.,
opened the show with a few nicely buttered
sentiments re Woman’s devotion to Animals,
children and the foliage of beautiful birds.
Horses and youngsters are represented in
this exhibition, but the foliage alluded to by
the cheery Suttor, M.L.C., is amongst the
missing. Most of these pictures were on
view at the recent Women Painters’ Ex-
hibition. The notion of whipping the artis-
tic cat till that lean beast drops dead is not
based on business lines. The one-man or
two-women show is a commercial proposi-
tion when the artists have something new to
exhibit. Rut it is up against a pretty high
hurdle when the same Art is unloaded twice
in a few weeks. Artists Aline and Edith
Cusack are entirely successful as painters
of still life. Their studies of Australian
flora are worth a long foot-pilgrimage with
peas in your shoes (or hat) to Anthony
Hordern’s Art Gallery, where the waratah
and wattle now bloom on many yards of
canvas. Edith, in tones of Kritish rainfall,
gives a clever damp-day impression of the
Thames near Kattersea. In oils, the same
artist is convincing in a painting of the
water-lapped Custom House at Dublin. In
Australian scenes she heaps on too much
violent green, and often finishes up with a
screaming blue or a few dabs of infuriated
purple. Sister Aline’s most ambitious
effort, a large acreage of horse and grass,
misses the ’bus.
Nancy, the only chick of Australia’s Nellie
Stewart, has been in training for the foot-
lights for some time. Walter Rentley is
responsible for her paces. The girl makes
her first step forward in “Richelieu,” in
St. James’s Hall. October 18 is the date.
When our sex gets its blood up in the
matter of saving candle-ends, bits of soap
and hair-strings, it doesn’t throw its pence
away just to save its face in public, as it
were. A thrifty dame of this kind de-
scended on the dairy section of the Girls’
Exhibition and seized a glass of buttermilk
in her strong right hand. “How much?”
said she. “A penny a glass,” replied the
dairymaid. The" lady tossed off half the
milky fluid, planked down a ha’penny and
marched off before the astounded damsel in
charge of the till had time to faint more
than twice.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORAIN.


VICE-REGAL
JEWELLERS
BY APPOINTMENT.
Flexible
Bracelets
Dainty presents. Our
stock permits a choice
in many beautiful
patterns.
/v
/v
/>
/>
I
h.
%
9k
<6
’ Si
-K
/v
Visitors to Sydney are
invited to inspect the
Showrooms before leav-
ing for home.
New Catalogue free on
request.
Hardy Brothers, Ltd.
Vice-Regal Jewellers,
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
J!8 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
17 and 18 1 West Smithfield, London, E.C.
•R
ni
1,000,000 COPIES SOLD OF THE POPULAR
“BOOKSTALL” SERIES of AUSTRALIAN NOVELS
Written, Illustrated and Printed in Australia.
Price, One Shilling Each ; Post Free, 1/1.
“Bully Hayes: Buccaneer”
And Other Stories.
By LOUIS BECKE.
(Author of “ My Native Wife,” “ By Reef and Palm,” etc., etc.)
With Portrait, and Illustrations by Norman Lindsay.
Price, 1/-; Post Free, 1/1.
The name of Louis Becke is sufficient guarantee that the writing is strong, dramatic and
interesting, and no man knew “the Islands” better, or had more thrilling experiences there, than
this well-known author. Having served under the famous “Bully Hayes,” his personal anecdotes
anent that worthy are doubly valuable, whilst his other stories are amongst the best, as they are
the last, that Becke ever penned. The Author’s photograph, specially prepared for this work, is
characteristic and lifelike, and is a memento well worth possessing.
A racy sketch of the author’s chequered career forms a fitting introduction to his final effort.
JUST PUBLISHED—
“A Curate in Bohemia.”
By NORMAN LINDSAY.
Price, 1/- ; Post Free, 1/1.
As Australia’s foremost Black and White Artist, Norman Lindsay and his work are well known
and highly appreciated, but no one ever dreamt of accusing the artist of being an author. Neverthe-
less the fact remains, and when we say that the work of the author is on a par with that of the
artist, our readers will know what to expect. “The Curate in Bohemia” fairly bristles with bright
things, and the illustrations alone are well worth the money. That so much genuine humor can be
got out of the adventures of the luckless curate speaks volumes for the ability of the artist-author
who has so suddenly leapt into the literary limelight.
JUST
PUBLISHED—
‘‘The Golden Kangaroo.”
By AMBROSE PRATT.
(Author of “ Three Years with Thunderbolt.” “ The Outlaws of Weddin Range,” etc., etc.)
Price, 1/-; Post Free, 1/1.
The Golden Kangaroo was reported to be one of the best paying propositions the Australian
mining world had ever known. Its directors were pillars of probity who would never dream of
issuing false reports or of salting samples. But the hero of this tale had his doubts and started in
to expose the fakers. He abducts the chairman’s daughter, with whom he goes through many
strange adventures ; he works in the mine until he unravels the plot to rig the market; brings the
designing directors to book; saves the shareholders; and marries the aforesaid daughter.
Altogether this is a fascinating story well worthy of the attention of readers who enjoy thrilling
situations described in tense, graphic language.
HUMOROUS BOOKS.
How M‘Dougall Topped the Score, and Other Verses, by thomas e. spencer.
This series of recitations is, beyond question, the most popular collection that has yet
appeared in Australia. The majority of the pieces are delightfully humorous.
The Spring Cleaning, by MRS. BRIDGET M’SWEENEY (Thos. E. Spencer).
Mrs. M’Sweeney’s experiences, told in her own inimitable way, keep you rippling with
laughter from cover to cover.
The Surprising Adventures of Bridget M‘Sweeney. BY THOMAS E. SPENCER.
Those who have already made the acquaintance of Mrs. M’Sweeney, and know how enter-
taining she is, will be pleased to meet her again. She is more charming than ever.
Why Doherty Died, by thomas e. spencer.
The author of “How M’Dougall Topped the Score” has again vindicated his title to be
considered one of Australia’s best versifiers. Full of good, humorous recitations.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.,
476 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. And All Branches and Booksellers.
This is addressed to those mothers of girls and boys who are beginning to be afraid
that "music simply isn’t in ” their children, it’s so hard to keep them interested in it.
She practised and she practised
—but she never learned to play.
SURELY, you never beard of a child who didn’t love music.
But practising —that’s another matter. Nothing is harder
or more tiresome work —especially when there are othci
things going on —evening parties or outside games.
There’s only one way to make practising less hard
and less tiresome —that is to keep in front of your
boys’ or girls’ minds, the fact that SOME day they aie
going to be good players, musicians.
But how?
Incentive! They should know what good music is
and what good playing is. If you could play and
WOULD play for them, they couldn’t ask for a better
incentive. They would practise till their fingers ached
to learn to play as well.
But you don’t play. And that is why you need the Steck
PIANOLA Piano to give your children the incentive you yourself
can’t give them. Keeping up their interest will be the least of
your worries when a PIANOLA Piano comes into your home.
Do you think, because anyone can play the Steck
PIANOLA Piano, that they will lose interest or become
discouraged with their own efforts ?
No! They will practise as never before —to be able to do with
their oivn two hands what the PIANOLA Piano does so perfectly.
It is the greatest incentive in the world to make girls and boys
want to be good players, and try to be.
And then think of your world of beautiful music, of finished
masterly playing, to offset the finger exercises and scales you
listen to while your children are still beginners.
The Steck Pianola Piano, whose wonders as a Player-Piano
are not equalled by any other at any price, is an instrument
ideally unmechanical and mysteriously sympathetic to jour
slightest expression and modulations.
try
%
m
n i
ii»i a 11 (I
Li
UA
1A
a
Come and hear it, to-morrow. We ask you to be our guest,
without obligation of any kind.
If unable to call, let us send you a Catalog of the Steck
Pianola Piano. We will send it free if you will ask for Catalog T.
THE PIANOLA COMPANY,
252 Collins Street, MELBOURNE /
88 Rundle Street, ADELAIDE ;
and 436-438 Queen Street, BRISBANE /
357 George Street
(next David Jones Ltd.),
Sydney.
London, Berlin, New York, etc,
m
CC*MA»


02
m a
0m!
/
\n
k
FARMER’S
VICTOR SUITS
Ready for Service.
Farmer’s Victor Sac Suits are a distinct advance in
Ready For Service Suita. The workmanship is of the
highest order —so is the style and the fit. Farmer’s prices,
considering the excellent quality, are remarkably low.
The suit pictured has 3 buttons, flat lapel, centre seam
and vent; vest has medium opening, and 4 pockets;
trousers have side and hip pockets.
In Fancy Tweeds and Worsteds. Prices*
45/-, 50 -, 55/-, 60/-, 65/-, 70/-, to 95/-
In Navy Serge, Indigo dye. Prices :
50/-, 55/-, 60/-, 65/- and 70/-
We Pay the Carriage.
Farmer’s, Sydney
PITT, MARKET and GEORGE STREETS.
The
Oriental
Hotel,
MELBOURNE.
AUSTRALIA’S MODERN HOTEL.
Now open for the reception of Guests.
The most Hygienic Conditions and Refined
Elegance are distinctive features.
Any size suite of compartments.
Tariff from 15/- per day.
ERNEST McINTOSH, General Manager.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, October 6, 1913.
My Dear Yaerie, —
The Denman lady is home again, and a
glittering Gaud Mayoral ball testified to the
fact on Wednesday night last week. The
great room was packed when the returned
dame arrived on the scene. She was greeted
at the head of the staircase by the Chief
Rabbit Skin and his tribe. Parliamentary
headlights hovered in the background, and
the rank and file of Society, sardined to
either side, sighed respectfully inside its
corsets and looked on. Chamberlain Nevill
and several Helps took the vice-regal outer
wraps, as the lady rustled up alongside the
G.-G. A too-gallant courtier got a fluttering
chiffon scarf wound round his bearded neck.
It was hurriedly detached by a glaring Help,
to an accompaniment of muttered apologies.
'The Denman dress was of silver and white
brocade. Some neck pearls and a pearl-
tipped diamond sky-sign went with it. The
pretty little sister-in-law, Mrs. Harold Pear-
son, who has come out with her husband to
bave a look at the Commonwealth, was in
black. The Barttelot dame, in purple, and
Mrs. Guise, in pink, were decorative items
in the little procession. When the Governor-
folk got dancing in the official lancers, they
held up the whole vast entertainment. The
balconies were packed with watchers, and
down on the floor one could hardly breathe
without apologising to two people in writ-
ing. It was nearly as good as a football
final. Several carefully-tutored dancing
matrons scoffed at the vice-regal gyrations.
“Why, they crossed hands in the fourth
figure!” gasped one. She couldn’t have
been more dumbfounded if the Denman dame
had suddenly thrown down a Paris hat and
jumped on it. John Madden’s dame was in
blue, and daughter Lesly wore a fillet of
lilac in her hair, and something skimpy in
the way of clothes. Somebody (a real Some-
body, mind you!) wore black and white in
staring contrast. She was all white above
the waist-line, and all black below it. There
was a strong scent of moth balls in the
air, and every conceivable style of dress since
Eve’s fig-leaf was given an airing. One
woman put blinding cerise over mauve, and
looked outrageously proud of herself. On
the other hand, Mrs. Thompson, who hails
from the backyard of the sunset, wore a
dream of a pale petal-tinted gown straight
from Paris. The wearer and the garment
met in Melbourne and harmonised at once.
Mrs. Barrett, in sea-green, hung heavily
on the arm of her doctor husband. Mrs.
Hennessy looked pale and almost slender in
lilac and old lace. The whole ceiling was
trellised and hung with mock wistaria, and
the band sawed and twanged in a rose-
covered pagoda, out of which the blas§ bas-
soonist (it must be terrible to be a blas§
bassoonist!) scowled terribly. More rose
trellis made pretty cover for the sitting-out
young person and her devoted partner of the
moment. This sentimental type also in-
vaded the Gaud Mayoral easy chairs on the
first floor, and got mixed up with the feet
of those who tried to use the stairs.. Herds
of chaperone roamed over the dancing area
until the supper rooms opened, when they
drifted away silently and grazed in a pains-
taking manner on the refreshments. To
feed the 2000 guests the corridor supper
buffets were thrown open, and all the coun-
cil rooms upstairs were utilised. A large
striped awning (the same old striped awn-
ing !) hid the social locusts on the balcony
from the glittering eyes of the anguished
ratepayers in the street below.
The Hon. Alicia Knatchbull-llugessen,
who arrived with the Denman lady, has
been carrying her impressive name round
the town with rather a saucy air. The
G.-G. party whisked her off to Sydney for
the Fleet festivities. She will unpack some
startling frocks for Cup-time.
The Russell Clarkes are in possession of
Rupertswood for race-time, and hospitable
doings will happen in the brief horseless
intervals. The big place, which was for-
merly a pile of isolation, is an . easy motor
run from town, and modern Society is fully
prepared to set its motor bonnets straight
at the luxurious old house that has had its
blinds down so much of late years. Russell
Clarke, by the way, is Rupert’s small sporty
cousin. He and his wife are beginning to
settle down after a prolonged touring period.
Marjorie Heinbockel, the strikingly un-
conventional young thing who deserted Mel-
bourne Block a year or two ago, and has
been writing her old pals from Paris and
London in the meantime, was booked for a
trip to the altar on Monday of this week.
Norman Raphael is the man, and the invites
issued by Miss Von Heinbockel —aunt of the
one and only Marjorie—were for a recep-
tion at Claridge’s Hotel, London, after the
ceremony. It went without saying that,
when Melbourne’s most remarkable girl made
up her mind for matrimony, she would take
the plunge in style. Marjorie’s Norman con-
quest is the son of millionaire Walter
Raphael, of Stratton-street, Mayfair. His
(Norman’s) sister married Neil McEacharn,
so the bride will remain in social touch with
Melbourne, though she joins the British
Hebrewocracy. The Raphaels are fairly in
the golden swim. They are connected with
the enormously wealthy Sassoons. Miss
Florrie Sassoon married Ernest Raphael.
Guy Madden, the well-nourished son of
John, is preparing to sling the Law and go
on the land. Also, Cousin Goodall, son of
uncle Frank Madden, is throwing up the
horsehair trade, in order to start as a stock
and station agent—with a fine, friendly
array of squatters as customers. His part-
ner will be young Maudsley, one of Vic-
toria’s most enthusiastic soldiers.
Dr. Leary is now permitted to drive his
own motor. The privilege was withdrawn
from the fiery young Irishman three times
before his marriage, and even on his honey-
moon he had to let his bride take the steer-
ing wheel. Now a sedate married medico
runs his machine down Collins-street at a
reasonable pace, and dogs and other pedes-
trians have not to make convulsive jumps
for the kerb.
Premier Watt is training his young fam-
ily in the duties of public life. Two short-
skirted daughters are to open a fSte to be
held in the garden of Mrs. Smith, of Moonee
Ponds. The function is fixed for October
11, and the proceeds will go to endow an
Essendon cot at the Children’s Hospital.
Mrs. Leslie Stuart had an exciting second
or two with a burglar recently. Walking
into her house late one night, the young
matron went to switch on the electrics in-
side a doorway and put her hand on a Man!
While she was shrieking, the stranger
escaped with some of the household plate
which he had bagged ready for removal.
However, he left the babies and the family
pearls.
Hector Macdonald is building a pretty
house in Toorak for his bride —Miss June
Clapp. The place is small but picturesque,
and it will contain antiques calculated to
make any collector envious and any woman
miserable. Leading burglars are already
reconnoitring the premises, and influential
house-breakers and sand-baggers from as far
off as Tomsk and London and Chicago are
on the road.
A goodly number of cat feuds and ven-
dettas are proceeding hereabout. They
originated with the recent dance given by
the officers of the cruiser Melbourne. The
revel was so rushed that the hosts could only
remember the names of the prettiest girls
and their mothers, and a heap of other
daughters and dowagers were clean forgot-
ten. When the cruiser returns to defend
Flemington against the Hebrew fleet at
Cup-time, those officers will collide with
a lot of cold shoulders, and you can’t
slap a lady on her partially nude back
to make her shoulder warm. Some matrons
of immense respectability answer frigidly,
when asked if they were present, “Ai never
heard of the affair!” And their tone sug-
gests that it must have been a disgraceful
affair for them not to hear about it.
Mrs. Murphy, Mayoress of Caulfield, is
proclaiming that she will hold a reception in
the local Town Hall after the Cup excite-
ment is done with.
The glittering committee of the City News-
boys’ Ball, which is due to roll on the 14th,
is presided over by the Madden dame and
secretaried by daughter Lesly. They are
followed by a number of the Best People,
and pretty girl bandits are bailing up de-
fenceless men and forcing half-guinea tickets
on them, at the same time emphasising the
fact that the cheque for same should be sent
“immediately, please.” It is just as well to
lay stress on the “immediately.” The
“please” is a mere formality.
The Flemington racing, on Saturday, was
followed in a businesslike spirit by an army
of men enthusiasts. Most of the Society
women who had not gone to Sydney for the
races and Fleet welcome were occupied either
with golf or one of the half-dozen charity
fetes. The gambling animals didn’t go any
slower than usual on that account, and the
bookmaker seemed relieved because there
were less half-crown bets.
Inasmuch as “shouting a taxi” has be-
come the highwater-mark of “dog” among
the University boys, the youngest of them
will now save their pocket money for weeks
in order to hire a machine for a special
occasion. Fortunately, the very young girl
concerned usually realises the enormity of
letting the register tick out extra shillings,
and so is prompt for once in collecting her
powder-puff, gloves, rose hair-wreath and
lace handkerchief in readiness for the start
homewards. But for this slickness, it is
believed that many promising lads would
have had to file their schedules for amounts
running into one figure.
At a suburban paying guestery of some
importance a large and wealthy ambassador
of commerce, with softgoods interests in
“the Lane,” presented several matrons of
the house with samples of a new type of
corset he intended to introduce. Any pos-
sible tinge of impropriety was banished by
the wholesale nature "of the gift. One dame
of the plump and pleasing type rustled
down to dinner braced to within an inch of
the suffocation limit. While she was back-
ing into her chair, a shilling dropped out of
her silver chatelaine purse. She gazed down
at it for a puzzled moment, pondering
whether she would risk a dive and possible
fracture of her new harness. Then, “Pooli.
/ don’t want it!” she said, and the coin
was left for the maid whose duty it was to
gather up the crumbs.
The Ladies’ Presbyterian College, which
has ex-pupil Melba to live up to, has just
produced “She Stoops to Conquer” ; but it
didn’t let Florrie Hobbs, the racy Tony
Lumpkin of the excellent show, sing Gold-
smith’s incidental song:—
When the Methody preachers come down,
A preachin’ that drinkin’ is sinful,
I’ll wager the rascals a crown,
They all of ’em preach best with their skinfull.
Besides Florence Hobbs aforesaid, there was
a Nellie Alexander and an Ethel Swinburne,
and a Lorna Lukin and a Kitty McDonald
who deserved at least two-thirds of the
benignant smiles that proud parents sent up
to them.
The Charles Ryan couple are fussing
parentally over son Rupert, who has come
home for a visit covered all over with a
thick coat of English polish. Rupert is a
member of the British army, and he has
propped it (the army) up against a wall
while he is away.
Olive Chenery is engaged to a Mr. Grif-
fiths, of Albury, Olive’s home town. Cousin
Dorothy became engaged only the other day,
so the family is fearfully excited.
Great preparations are being made for
the wedding of Marion, only daughter of the
shipping York Symes, to a young man called
Ernest Wiseman. Uncle and Pie Commis-
sioner George Reid may be in time for the
wedding breakfast. (He must have been
worrying about that breakfast when he
nearly missed the train in London.)
The Ladies’ Golf Union meeting occurs
annually, and the sporting women are al-
lowed to choose their links. Last year
Sandringham was the stage; this year the
Metropolitan lent its 158 acres of freehold
to an army of women who tramped and
smote and tramped again, and in between
whiles drank tea and put their hats on
straight. The confirmed women golfer
doesn’t care a hang if her hat’s on straight
or not; but vanity is not extinct amongst
the members of the craft. On Saturday, the
last day of the uproar, president Debenham
and his wife gave a tea party, for which
the guests collected under the gums near
the first hole. The gossip became so loud
and distracting that a serious clubman got
out a large SILENCE placard and put it
in a conspicuous position on the grass. It
immediately incited a lot more people to
talk hard. Local cabs galloped between the
station and the links, and one toppled over.
Pretty little Dorothy Syme and Miss Merritt
were inside; but fortunately they were only
shaken. Mrs. Thiel played well in attrac-
tive blue clothes, and Miss Binnie, cool and
fair in white, carried off the most valuable
trophy of all. The prizes were presented
without any fuss while tea was being poured
and play was raging.
Dora Meeson-Coates has departed for
England with a mere handful of the sketches
and pictures she brought hither. Dora
is an English girl who studied in Australia
and just missed the scholarship. She took a
sweet, womanly revenge on the winner by
marrying him.
Those well-meaning amateurs who call
themselves the Arion Operatic Society, en-
couraged and abetted by Lesly Madden and
a few other Society benevolents, staged “The
Geisha” for six nights last week at the New
National Theatre. Whatever plunder was
raked in is to be divided between Widow
Staughton’s Girls’ Training Home and the
Try Society.
The Alliance Frangaise indulged in a
frivolous programme on October 2. The
guests whose French was defective, or bad,
or unspeakable, were treated gently and
given simple propositions. The Janet
Clarke lady used to be the upholder of this
show, and sit, stiffly attentive, in the front
stalls, by way of setting a good example to
those of less degree. Mrs. Hennessy takes
the lead nowadays. The hard-working Gaud
Mayoress is an earnest student, and the
John Madden dame labors alongside. Society
follows the pair meekly. Earnest, in-
tellectual men (you can tell they’re intel-
lectual bv their glasses) help to make up
the audience, and a few nice boys do their
best to look interested. I rather suspect
they attend on account of the cute little
French-Australian girls, who shrug their
plump shoulders in the cosy side seats of
the Independent Hall. Last Thursday Mrs.
Louise Smith Dyer arranged the whole pro-
gramme—then took ill and left her husband
to engineer the show alone. Dyer himself
sang a French song in a Scotch tenor, and
Mrs. Hossenloff, a wonderful vision in
Parisian clothes of pale pink cut very low
to show an ivory back, recited with French
gestures.
Little Felice Lyne, as Gilda in “Rigo-
letto,” had to endure comparison with Melba,
not only as regards singing, but also as re-
gards Legs. While disguised as the page in
the last act, Melba showed shapely under-
standings in purple tights, draped more or
less with a big black cloak. Felice thrust
her tiny limbs into great jack boots that
looked several sizes too large for her, just as
the sugar-sweet quartets were a few sizes
too large for her delicate warble. When
dressed in feminine garments, she looked as
pretty as a doll. The night robe that Gilda
has to wear all through one act was most
suitable for the big blue eyes and golden
ringlets of the slender singing maiden. So
few singers can manage an 18-inch waist
and measurements to correspond.
Ambrose Patterson has discovered a new
picture gallery. This week he is hanging a
collection of his paintings at the Theosophi-
cal Society’s Room, of all places. The
Theosophists, it seems, assemble and meet
together on the sth floor of “The Centre-
way,” in Collins-street, and that’s where the
gentle Ambrose is holding his exhibition. To
add to the attraction of the pictures you may
get the catalogue from a Mahatma who sits
brooding on virtue.
The Repertory Theatre struggled valor-
ously against grand opera, British parties,
and the ruck of Show-time entertainments.
Gregan McMahon has been out of the act-
ing ranks this season, owing to illness;
just at present, the managerial work is all
he feels equal to. On Thursday, the public
holiday night, some country sympathisers
mingled with the usual crowd. The Cam-
perdown Reids showed their Titian hair
above pastel-tinted cloaks, and Mrs • ,
a Beckett, just out of hospital
side her husband. The Repertory nfi 8 '
phers nowanights dress beautifully y•*
erary drama has caught on lom fZ
amongst the motored classes, and vifflj
melting amethysts and pale amber float n
and give ballet views of silk-stocking
hmbs on the old, grey Athenaeum
they climb to the entertainment in the?
fashionable split skirts and chiffon nett
coats —one layer only ! I n “Major
bara,” Shaw implores folk to scrap their old'
fashioned prejudices and get new ones ami
as far as prejudices are expressed hi the
changing fashions of clothes, the Best
People have adopted the doctrine with
ardor. wua
Ted Tait, of Her Majesty’s, is making a
considerable fuss over a small son who
arrived a few weeks ago.
Allen Doone carried an oar on to the Prin
cess’s stage on Saturday night. The leneth
of timber had a laurel wreath and a he
ribboned Harp of Erin dangling at the end
and generally bore the appearance of being
a trophy. So it was It appears that Allen
and Hugh Buckler had had a sculling con
test during the afternoon on the poor over
worked Yarra, and Doone had triumphed
He bore his barrowload of greatness witli
becoming modesty.
Somebody says that the new J. C Wil-
liamson, Ltd., theatre is to have Tasmanian
oak fittings. The beautiful wood is quite as
durable as the renowned stand-by of Eng-
land.
Felice Lyne, who dwells at Menzies’, finds
she has to reckon with a big green parrot
that hangs out at the flats opposite the
hotel. The parrot has apparently picked up
her top-notes, and when she sings the mock-
ing fowl screeches back at her.
Chamberlain Dick Nevill has originated
an inflexion in polite greeting which is
being carefully imitated by the vounger set
“Plow do you do?” chirps Dick, and the
way he stresses the “do” suggests that he
has been worrying for weeks about you.
It seems to be very successful.
From “Rosna,” still in London:—
Amy Sherwin, who used to be “the Tasmanian
nightingale,” and is now a very well-known teacher,
lately promoted a singing competition at Margate!
The conductor of the London Choral Society was bor-
rowed as judge, and submitted to three days’ shrieks,
while fond parents applauded. An Australian visitor!
girl named Rona May captured chief prizes, both
by verdict of judge and vote of audience.
Dr. Clendinnen, of Melbourne, over here for the
Medical Congress, fell a victim to one of his own
pet microbes. As soon as the champion carvers of
the globe had finished talking he had to hasten into
hospital and be cut up by a brother specialist. He
is now convalescing.
The Slapoffski dame is considering an offer from
Oscar Hammerstein, and may be decoyed to Noo
Yark for his opera season before she returns to Aus-
tralia. After warbling at the “Proms” last week
she was almost buried beneath encores and other
complimentary vegetation.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
The Hunt Club Races occurred on Saturday. This
meeting is the local equivalent of Goodwood or
Longchamps so far as the ladies’ clothes are con-
cerned. Perfect weather brought out some astonish-
ing frocks—and you can read this phrase either way,
and be equally certain of making no error. Some of
the gowns were like a milliner’s dream of Paradise.
Others were —well, not. A woman, large of stature
and foot, does not look her best in an ultra-short
skirt and a large and shapeless coat. Nor is yellow
satin always becoming in the broad light of day. But
enough of these cryptic carps. Mrs. Tolley’s apricot
crgpe garment was a peach. Lady Bosanquet wore a
mauve dress and a small black hat. Her daughters
were in contrasting shades of blue. Also present,
correctly clothed, and consequently in their right
minds, were Mrs. McFarlane and her smart daughter,
Mrs. and Miss Waterhouse, Mrs. E. Kyffin Thomas,
Mrs. Burston, Mrs. Augustus Short and Miss Short,
Mrs. Percival Stow, Airs. Dudley Turner and Miss
Turner, the Bowman clan —or some of it —the Michael
Hawkers, Mr. R. M. Hawker (who had with him his
ward, the elder son of the late Mr. Mortlock), Mrs.
Stanley Murray—in a smart coat and skirt of black
crepe de Chine—Miss Culross, Mrs. O’Leary, Mrs. C. T.
Hargrave, Mrs. George Box and Mrs. Ralli. Mr.
Cudmore won the Cup with Texas, and all rejoiced
(barring those who had backed other horses), since
this is the owner’s last season as a follower of the
aniseed rag.
Mrs. Leonard Bakewell bade a few of her
friends drink tea with her at Yerto on Friday,
and Mrs. Wm. Pope is asking people to meet Bishop
Mercer, and admire her roses, on Saturday.
Miss Phyllis Boult, a one-time Adelaidean who
has been living in Maoriland, is here on a visit to
Mrs. Walter Duffield, of Glenelg.
Miss Gilbert and her sister left last week for a
trip to India.
The town is absolutely creeping with clerics, my
dear—a way it has about this glad time of the year. The
immemorial old vestments row is, of course, raging:
and, as a side-line, there has been a heated dis-
cussion about the poorness, not to say literal insol
vency, of the wages paid in the lower walks of the
vineyard trade. In the intervals of bewailing these
things, the holy men have fed heavily on tea, buns,
milk and other saintly provender.
The Mortlock estate, in South Australia, has been
sworn at £550,000 —and there is other property in
W.A., Victoria and England. The Wolf, on read-
ing the news, removed himself and all his assets, in-
cluding his howl, not only from the doorstep, but
from the very country. , ~
We have had a sort of epidemic of bolting bride-
grooms. Stupefied brides and maddened tradesfoiK
are identifiable in unprecedented numbers. ine
traders seem to me to be suffering the most, in
poet remarked once that the Lower Regions had
fury like a woman spurned. Possibly—yet a iema
scorned is not in it with an Adelaide shopkeep
bilked.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.


*r '
,%v-
P, * ~
» v ¥
■
«C**’ <*
r H if P « ‘ f <
'. /. •
p
iff.
*»; -SF
•I
■/-
».. ' V-
Vi f
■'/!%» / ...
v
•-S
W®*%S, ■
w
Jr?;K
R
, m.*>4 ■*■•• ~ <• ■•• i
. *>:
KSJtk
»§
■
■
\ 'V
i
-i
mm
;j \ •
mm
wM
/•i3
■
■
■
r.j " : %t
. ■■
»
J«
iS
'
jj ‘ * > . '* 5 ;
-. • '
mm
m
m
m
, ,fj ,■
mi:
*
* "jt ■
N- 4 • v\ **>... <i
®SB
51
i * I
MM
«SSfcv, '' k > - -‘I
■MRSS&snft
.
s 'SrW^ : zpvf -pi;- .*$
?Wl
£
i§£g§
pp
i m
■ fBgpWPMp«E^?:
T-,:
: I
•- ■
P*
d ■-
c* ■&.,
m
im
WKjti
m
..
i&sbt
■
m %
k
f,v -\ . «s?4*<M*fc
4fe
3*
*'-
.
It
?<?*
?a
:
ittr ■ ■
t m
&
«:> ■ vjfc
MGRae#*?'
\ ' ■ . * .. .. ,
■Haig
m
wm:-m
m.
i • m
m
m
Z - ;-i/ I
.
!
si
> :^:vi
,: v
:
t-M
’: , a
... '. J£*2
i ,# X & 1
:,5 1j
t&
i®
r*
iVffi <■
1 I
m §J
*>-' >v Hi W-v M' m
1
•J
• «
.•r*\
, ■ •»
■
M. “
igT 1 "
‘ • i/mm
susip^^
liMy * / -/.Vf fiil-i.
Sm» v%. A f
fmls
EE . .
• 0
FJR
smj V e‘f J
Copyright- John Dewar & Sons, Ltd.
Joseph Simpson, R.B.A.
ROBERT BURNS
This Picture is the First of a Series of colored Portraits of Famous Scots published by
JOHN DEWAR & SONS, L T °" scotch whisky Distillers, Perth London


HOW TO ENJOY GOOD MEALS AND
GOOD WINES WITHOUT SUFFERING
FROM STOMACH TROUBLE.
It is a well-known fact among physicians,
and even most people, that he who dines too
well and likes wines will sooner or later
become the victim of stomach acidity. In a
recent medical article an eminent physician
states that too much acid should never be
permitted in the stomach, because it irritates
the stomach walls, causing ulcers, and in
time developing cancerous growth. The
acidity is generally signalised by indigestion
after taking wines, thick sauces, fruits or
coffee, and the doctor believes that this is
the real reason for most stomach complaints.
In his own case, as well as among his
patients, he found that ordinary bisurated
magnesia quickly neutralised the acid and
made it disappear, thus enabling the diges-
tive organs to properly perform their natu-
ral functions.
Although this is such a simple and harm-
less remedy, the Medical Report tells of a
lady who had suffered for years from what
had been diagnosed as ulcer of the stomach,
and whom it completely cured in a few
weeks’ time. As bisurated magnesia is quite
inexpensive, and can be easily procured
from any good chemist, we publish this ex-
tract from the doctor’s account of his ex-
perience, for the benefit of readers who wish
to enjoy eating well without suffering bad
after-effects.*
If, despite all your efforts to cultivate a mous-
tache, your upper lip remains bare or adorned with
only a slight down, then you cannot do better than
invest in a jar of Capillarine. This wonderful
moustache-grower penetrates to the root-cells and
promotes a long, strong, silky growth which will
prove to be permanent. It can be applied in the
secrecy of your own room. It has never been known
to fail once during the past 30 years. Capillarine
is sold at 10/6 a jar by Craig and Aitken, 654
George Street, Svdnev.*
THe World’s Best.
DAIMLER
Motor Lorry.
Silent Knight Engine.
Shaft Drive No Chains.
Motor Cars P’t’y
Melbourne.
SUNSHINE
Hugh V. McKay, Sydney & Adelaide,
Sole
Agents.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
The old-time notion that the Northern
aboriginal is rapidly dying out is a mistaken one.
Nearly all the Northern stations show a healthy
birth-rate, and in Torres Strait (islands) aboriginal
babies arrive at the rate of 38.46 per 1000 of the
total population. The Commonwealth figures for 1912
ran to only 27.24 per 1000 for the white race. But
it threatens to be a weirdly mixed Binghi popula-
tion in the future, for the Department last year
issued permits to aboriginal girls to marry seven
Kanakas, seven Malays, two Japanese, one
one Indian and three Europeans.
STRAIGHT AND TO
THE POINT.
In some schools that I' have visited
boys have exhibited a lamentable lack
of proper home training. In speaking of
teachers, even in my presence, they
used vulgar epithets, which were, in
most cases, suggested by physical de-
fects in their teachers.— Clergyman on
religious instruction in public schools.
NEW RELIGIOUS I NNSTRUCTOR: “My
boy, would you please tell me
your headmaster's name, and
where I shall find him? ”
MY B OY: “ That's him, that fat
old bloke over there. His name's
Jobson, but we calls him Stomach
Pump.”
Fiction hasn’t half such a vivid imagina-
tion as fact. A Mackay paper declares that a man
at the Pioneer mill got his apron caught in the fugal
shaft, about which he was working. He was “caught
up, whirled over the fugal and shot through a hole
in the mill floor.” Every stitch of clothes was torn
off him, and a shilling in his pocket was bent almost
double. Yet when the mill boss examined the man
himself, there was not a scratch on him. If
Mackay still manufactured its old brand of rum one
could account for this kind of yarn ; but the Pioneer
turns out no snake-juice these times.
“Tiaki” : Professor Macmillan Brown lias
returned from a trip to some of the outlying
islands with intensely interesting tales of dead and
deserted stone cities. At Ponape he canoed along
the main streets arid canals of “this ancient Venice”
for four or five hours at a time. There were huge
breastworks of stone rising 10ft. above the water
and miles in length, making in many places artifi-
cial islands which are filled in with coral. There
are immense buildings on these islands. The walls
are, in places, 30ft. high and 15ft. thick. Brown
estimates that thev_ were originally twice that
height, and that the cities are merely about 3000
years old. In front of one great temple, at Ponape.
there are great stones with holes at the top where
the priests are said to have made kava to offer to
the gods. On the whole, it looks as if the inhabi-
tants of a mighty city had gone away to the races
or a Methodist picnic, or something, and had for-
gotten to return. He also mentions that there are
evidences of Negroid, Japanese and Caucasian fea-
tures among the inhabitants. There is no need to
go out of Maoriland for that peculiarity. There are
natives here as much like Shylock, Sambo or the
Geisha Girl as “ —— it” is to swearing. Possibly
Henare of old popped into those ports on his way-
out. In the vaults of the Bank of M.L., Welling-
ton, lies the most ancient piece of stone carving in
Maoriland. It is called “ Korotangi or the crying
dove, and is sculptured from a very heavy, dark
green piece of metallic stone. It was brought here
on board the Tainui canoe from somewhere in the
central Pacific, lost or mislaid for hundreds of years,
and found again about 1880 at the root of an over-
turned tree. Henare and his cousins of the smaller
islands sometimes touch vaguely on a “flood-man,”
a deluge (tupu-tupuwhenua) and an ark of safety
(waka pokiki rakau). All they want is a Noah to
complete the plot. It is likely that the balance
of a mighty kingdom—a bigger and greater Venice
—may be sleeping peacefully hundreds of fathoms
deep under the waters of the swaying and swinging
Pacific. Perhaps the great walls that remain repre-
sent a brown Doge’s last effort to keep his country
dry.
* * * *
“Silas Snell”: People had told Scanlan
that Jasper, of Ten Gates, would be certain to find
him something to do. Everybody along the track
said Jasper was an uncommon good sort. Scanlan
found Jasper seated in a large wicker chair on his
own deep, vine-embroidered verandah, facing a long,
lush, green lawn. Jasper bad his heels up on a
table, and a half-bottle of whisky between them.
In his right hand was a glass, in his left a cigar,
and he was yawning hideously. He was a thin,
dark-haired, pale-skinned, clean-shaven man, with
a tired brown eye. He yawned nine times while
Scanlan told him what he wanted. Then he partially
awoke to some of the possibilities of the case. He
became almost alive. “Have a whisky?” he
moaned. He dealt Scanlan a copious dose. “You
want something to do. Well, I endeavor to encour-
age the willing worker. I tell you what.. I’ll give
you a quid if you can race my dost Wily .long
the lawn there, you to take 20 yards st. t.” Scanlan
rather fancied himself in a sprint. He measured
the distance with his eye. “Done!” he said.
Jasper sighed. “If the dog catches you he’ll prob-
ably tear the socks off you,” he said faintly. “I’ll
chance that,” Scanlan replied. The dog proved to
be a Great Dane, an ugly, unamiable brute. Towns
the rouseabout held Wily, sooling him at Scanlan,
and Jasper seemed to be making a determined effort
to keep awake. He officiated as starter, and Scanlan
got well away at the call, with the angry tyke yap-
ping after him. There was a green-house at the end
of the lawn as a haven of refuge for Scanlan, and
another rouseabout was stationed there to recover the
dog. Scanlan reached sanctuary a good 12 paces
ahead of Wily. Jasper seemed disappointed, but
dispassionate. “I’ll make it double,” he said
languidly, “if you’ll take 15 yards.” Scanlan was
game. Again he won. “Double or quits, giving you
10 yards,” murmured Jasper, almost in his sleep.
Scanlan chanced it, and got in about 3in. ahead of
the infuriated Dane. Jasper paid up, and yawned
again. “I’ll give you another two sovereigns if
you’ll take a yard’s start,” he sighed. “No, I’m
damned if I do,” replied Scanlan. “Oh, very well,
very well,” said the squatter faintly. “I really don’t
care myself, but I hate to disappoint the dog.”
“Pick”: If “Siiiicr~Box’ r TB. T179/’IBr
has his bump of observation well developed he
will have noticed that whenever a snake’s peeling
is found it is always in the crevice of a rock, or
between similar rigid obstructions. When the land-
eel awakes from his winter’s sleep he celebrates the
discovery that he isn’t dead, after all, by appearing
in a new rig. Pushing his length through the nar-
rowest way at hand, he gradually draws himself out
of his old coat and leaves the discarded garment
behind. If the snake hasn’t been hurried up during
the undressing the cast-off rind will lie found
intact., even the eve-holes being covered with a thin
film of dried skin. * ~
THE FUNERAL OF THE FUTURE.
The OLD POT : "Well, there's a chance of a
chap having a fly when 'e's dead, any-
how!”
"NorbeH”: I am glad to have goaded
“Soapsuds” into anger (B. 4/9/’l3) by remarking
on the casualness of the bathing habit of the Aus-
tralian in Western Queensland. He point-blank
denies my statement that “there was no bath or
bathroom where I stayed in Charleville,” yet that
was the plain, unwashed, unsoaped truth. The hash
emporium is situated in the main street (Alfred-
street). I was there for Show week, in May last,
and I will supply “Soapsuds” with the name and
age of the occupier, and 3d. worth of disinfectant,
on receipt of a stamped envelope. But the absence
of bath* is not peculiar to Charleville, or Queens-
land, either. I am still trailing over the Australian
landscape, “following the shows,” and for the last
three consecutive weeks 1 have been at Parkes,
Wellington and Young (N.S.W.), a week at each
place. In Parkes, where I put up, there was no
bath, nor any civilised makeshift. I bathed in sec-
tions in the domestic washtub in the back yard.
The landlady assured me, as they all do invariably,
that she used the washtub herself for bathing when
necessary but I had only her unsupported affidavit,
and „lf ' wei .fit >f evidence was dead against it. I
resiJ®i at a ue two-storey brick mansion in Wel-
lingt. The landlady had a family of six children,
besides other lodgers, but, of course, no bath. She
adopted the same old fiction about using the wash-
tub. In the house where I now write (Young) the
landlady has dwelt for six years, she tells me. It
is her own property, a fine house, with every con-
venience—except the bath. She informed me with
pardonable pride that she had had one boarder for
four years. He left recently—for a bath, I suppose.
I was at Peak Hill a few weeks ago—same old thing.
The humor of it all is that at these places they are
in deadly fear of small-pox, and are busy disinfect-
ing all day long. But in the paragraph which
“Soapsuds” resents so much, my point was that the
people in the country don’t wash themselves whether
tb have baths or not. The baths and bathrooms,
w ,en there are any, are invariably as dry as Reid’s
dog. In Queensland, where the pine partitions pre-
vail in pubs and hasheries and one can hear the
bloke in the next room change his mind, you listen
to him yawn and reach for his boots in the morning,
and progress with his dressing till it reaches the
washbasin stage. Then there is a faint splash or
two as he dabbles his hands and face, and a violent
puffing and blowing as he “wipes off” on the towel.
1 emphatically asseverate that the country people
are very imperfect ablutioners. I fancy if an extra
charge were made for the use of a bath, it would,
through vanity, be more often used. I don’t know,
but I suspect that they bathed more frequently in
Kalgoorlie, for example, when 2s. fid. a time was
demanded than they do now with a plentiful- supply
of Mundaring water for nothing.
Victoria’s closer settlers are not all craven
shirkers of the conditions of their agreements. One
of them applied lately for leave to absent himself
for two months, on the ground that he had had an
“accident”—the same being the passing of a wheel
of a bullock-dray over his neck 1 The letter was
cautiously minuted by the sub-officer who forwarded
it to headquarters—“ Think this a reasonable re-
quest.”
“John Besique”: Easily tbn
habitant of Forbes (N.S.W.) is the ,^ eSt * n '
hangs out at a local hotel. He wasTtf 00 that
before the first beer made glad the h™,' 0 "'
settler, and he has held the same iob at ° f the
ever since. He is named in the inventory P “ b
time there’s a change of lessees he is * Very
the valuation along with the mangle and (Pher f ' n
“X.P.D.” : It’s quite an art when it i sn v
Plain good luck to strike just the’ sort of “trade’’
that will tempt the Papuan to part up pearlshell or
eocoanuts or a day’s graft. The bead and
looking-glass had been overworked as far back
as 10 or 12 years ago. Even where the natives
were so fresh that they would accept beads,
they would turn away from blue ones—red
and white were the fashionable colors. Even
tomahawks and knives pall upon pampered
customers. Swapping one district’s products
for another’s can be rattling good business.
For instance, a stick of tobacco and a jew’s-
liarp (total value 2d.) can be traded at a
Collingwood Bay village for a string of cow-
ries, for which a buck on the Trobriands, a
day or two’s sail away, may swap carvings
or yams that will bring 10s. at B.P.’s. cheap
scents sell like cold water in Gehenna. That
applies to the Coast, at any rate. Salt is a
great line on the inland tracks. 1 wanted
some big jobs done 50 miles up the Mamba
River. All the Oro Kaivo there seemed to
be surfeited with tobacco, and had more
tomahawks than wives. So the jobs lan-
guished till one day a storekeeper gave me
an old wooden box to make window-shutters
of. It had a pound or two of coarse salt i n
the bottom, having contained embalmed pig.
I reckon that salt produced about 2 K.p. of
work per oz. per hour. We didn’t want to be
over-and-above Scotch, but the salt supply
was limited, and I remember getting a good
day’s work in exchange for one dessert-spoon-
ful jof it. Broken bottles are good trade
amongst the very unsophisticated—l know a
trader who got a curio for each fragment of a shat-
tered dead marine. And he got as good a fee for
putting a few stripes of red-lead paint on the grin-
ning figureheads of the natives.
“A.5.0.A.” : Passed out last month, at an
early age, one of the most remarkable of Australian
freaks. His name was —well, like most bush iden-
tities, his real name was never inquired after. He
answered to “Wampoo.” He was employed by the
owner of a station in south-east Queensland, to
whom he bore much the same relationship as did
Friday to Robinson Crusoe. When quite young he
had been bitten by a venomous snake, but survived.
He, however, was, it was supposed, thereby affected
physically, and to some extent mentally. Should
a snake appear on the scene, or should a bushman
casually refer to snakes within “Wampoo’s” hear-
ing, the effect was remarkable. He would utter a
choking, guttural exclamation, at the same time pro-
truding his tongue in darts after the reptile’s man-
ner. His face would become dark; he would froth
at the mouth, and his eyes would take an uncommon
lustre. In fact, he would show all the symptoms
of the epileptic—which he probably was. He lived
THE MATERIALIST.
REV. KILJOY : “Ah, my friend, when you
think of the wonderful way those mush-
rooms spring up in one night, doesn't it
make you realise there is such a thing as
a Creator?”
THE OTHER: “Yus; an' by Cripes, Mister,
they’re fine when yer fry 'em in fat."
a hard life, fighting his “ghost” ; and he died hard,
through a miscalculation in' the matter of tree-
felling. He had been known to the writer for several
years, and I had often wondered that Steele Rudd
had not “discovered” him, as his location was not
very far from Rudd’s old “Shingle Hut.”
(Continued on page 24.)
ÜB-HIC-QUITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The British party returned tp Melbourne from
Adelaide yesterday, and on the journey visited Gee-
long and Bathurst.—S. M. Herald.
We lunched at Adelaide, I know,
And dined at Booleroo ;
And then by Bourke and Bendigo
We went to Dunedoo.
We dined at Warrnambool next day,
'Neath Kosciusko’s frown ;
IVe drank the Barron Falls at Hay,
And then returned to town.
We quaffed the wine of Burrenjack,
Then sought our sleeping berth,
But stopped at Gympie for a snack,
Before we got to Perth.
AVe went to Sale and Gundagai,
Two pleasant seaport towns;
Refreshed ourselves at Narrabri,
The pride of Darling Downs.
We’ve had a most (hie!) splendid time,
From Pincligut to Paroo!
An’ so Gor’save the Motherland
An’ blesh Aushtralia, too !
N.S.W
NORMAN CAMPBELL.


SIEMENS
C-A
Bfifer
Don’t Drive Tacks
with a —
Sledge-hamm
» s v
Unproductive energy is a canker that
eats into profits. There are many
men who would never think of using a
sledge to drive tacks. They wouldn’t
waste time trying to do their office
correspondence with a quill pen in- _
stead of a typewriter. Yet they permit
all the machines in their factory to
gather power from the one source.
Every day they watch heavy
shafting and belting merrily spin-
ning away profits. They have not
realised that the economical distri-
bution of power lies in the individual
motor drive. One machine-one
motor. That’s the arrangement that
cuts out waste motion. With one
of our “R ” types of A.C. Motors linke
up to each working unit in your factory
you’ll effect a big saving in the year.
These motors stand the severest ser-
vice, and can be furnished for the very
smallest to largest outputs. Fo
further details call at either of our
offices or write for list 102.7.
Siemens Bros. Dynamo Works Ltd.,
,2 Bridge St., Sydney! 29 William St., nelbeurne.
Telegraphic Address : “ SIEMENS ” Sydney or Melbourne.
New Zealand Agents :
& T. BURT, LTD., Wellington, Auckland, Dunedin.
Money in the-
SODA '
FOUNTAIN
Business—!!
INSTAL A NELSON ICELESS
INTERIOR THIS SUMMER!
There’s many a fortune been made out of Nelson Machines and .
do as well as any other man —whether a storekeeper, chemist, hotelkeepe
or refreshment-room owner.
We are the sole agents for the finest Iceless Interiors in
America—and that says everything. Our machines cost about 5 per nent.
more than the locally made article—but they are oO per cent, better. Ihis
is the oninion of experts.
When we sell you a fountain we do so in good faith. We wouldn’t
sell at any price some machines now being sold in Australia as the genuine
article.
Nelson Machines are made for great durability, ease of working, prac-
ticability—and they’re absolute perfection.
The syrup pump is made of indestructible metal you can bump it and
hammer it without damage—yet the ordinary ones are dented by a mere
press of the finger and thumb. This is absolutely the best pump made.
Strong, accurate, simple and easy to clean guaranteed.
We specify this small item, but it is really only ONE of the excep-
tional points about our machines.
The Automatic “Never-Drip” Soda Draught Arm is an absolute master-
piece. Most Draught Arms drip. This is an annoyance, unsightly am
unsatisfactory. The Nelson “Never Drip’ Soda Arm stands alone.
This is ANOTHER point. There are dozens more why you should
positively get a “NELSON” brand of Iceless Interior—and no other.
Write TO-DAY for More Particulars—this matter
demands your immediate attention.
THE NELSON CARBONATING CO. LTD.
167 George Street, Sydney.
Stewart Dawson s Co.
(AUST.) LIMITED.
We buy our Gems direct from the Cutters, for Ready Money.
The Savings thus effected make possible our FIRST COST
TRICES. And we Pay the Postage. Write for Post Free
Illustrated Art Catalogue.
02841. —Pearl and Tourmaline Set Set. GOLD
BROOCH,
25-
09540 Pearl and Tourmaline Set Oct. GOLD
’ BROOCH,
25-
1
C7oo7.—Oct. GOLD BROOCH, set with
Fine Amethysts and Pearls,
CAMEO BROOCH,
37/6.
Smaller,
30/.
0344. —Fine Pearl and
Turquoise Set 9ct.
GOLD BROOCH,
22/6.
Strand Corner, 412 Geor&e St., Sydney.
AUSTRALIA: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND: Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin.
LONDON: 73 to 81 Regent Street, W.; and 19 to 21 Hatton Garden, E.C.


Sporting Cartridges.
SPECIAL FEATURES :
General Evenness of Pattern, Velocity
and Pressure.
Freedom from Blowback.
Less Recoil than that given by any other
Fully-loaded Standard Ammunition.
KYNOOA MADTL
"BONAX"
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
head office-
-14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
AUSTRALIANS !!
INSURE
IN
THE
1.0. A.
Fire, Marine, Accident, Live Stock.
AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
NABOB BOOT PASTE,
INSURING GOOD DIGESTION.
IMPORTANCE OF .PREVENTING FOOD
FERMENTATION IN STOMACH.
Good digestion usually means good health.
So long as the stomach does its work pro-
perly disease can find no lodgment in the
human system ; the liver, kidneys and intes-
tines will perform their work perfectly and
remain in perfect health ; but interfere with
the proper digestion of food and an unend-
ing train of troubles is set in motion. About
the only thing that will upset the stomach
and interfere with the digestion is an excess
of acid, usually caused, bv food fermentation.
Food fermentation is due to chemical action
in the food itself. This fermentation causes
the formation of gas. or wind, as well as
acid, resulting in the unnatural distention
of the stomach and the burning by the acid
of the delicate lining of the stomach.
Medicines and tonics cannot relieve this
condition —they usually make it worse. The
fermentation and acid are to blame, and
these must be overcome and prevented by.
taking after meals half a teaspoonful of bi-
surated magnesia in a little hot or cold
water. Physicians recommend bisurated
magnesia especially because it stops or pre-
vents fermentation of food and neutralises
the acid instantly, making it bland ana
harmless, without irritating or upsetting the
stomach in any way. Get a little bisurated
magnesia from your chemist and try it the
next time your food ferments and upsets
your stomach. Note how quickly the acid
is neutralised, and how soon you forget
that you have such a thing as a stomach
the Waterproof
Boot Polish.
ONE APPLICATION WILL LAST A WEEK, A BRUSH UP
BEING ALL THAT IS NECESSARY IN BETWEEN WHILES.
LEWIS & WHITTY, Makers, Melbourne and Sydney, n
“Sumach”: For cowardice and cunning,
the crow flutters in a winner every time. We had
killed a small snake and hung it across a spike
about 2ft. long projecting from the trunk of.a tree.
Up came Crow, seemingly with a keen appetite. But
he plainly reckoned the snake might be alive, and,
in that case, to perch on the limited space beside
it he knew would be unwise; so after several un-
successful attempts to arouse the sleeper, he con-
trived to drop a lump of dry bark on him. When
there wasn’t a ripple he. was satisfied that the snake
was really dead; so he sailed in and flew off with
the prize. Ten minutes later, when Mrs. Crow
fluttered up, I heard him describe the tremendous
fight he had put up and the glorious victory he
had won. t
INCREDIBLE.
1ST COCKY: “Yes, Bill, it’s a fact! She's
nearly 21, and she ain't never milked a
cow in her life! ”
“O’Phimerty”: Western Tasmania holds
the Australian championship in three things—the
most winding street, the twistiest road and the
curviest line of railway. The street is Main-street,
Zeehan, where it is never safe to bet that you are
heading north, south, east or west, for you do the
whole lot in a distance slightly less than two miles.
The road is that which slopes down the end of
Mount Lyell from Gormanston to Queenstown, and
which, in less than four miles, has 67 pronounced
bends. The line is a narrow gauge from Zeehan to
a town at the foot of Mount Read (Williamsford).
It is said (and it is not hard to believe it) that
the curves on this line, if added together, would
equal a 7 complete circles. Often the diminutive
train twists itself around two curves at once.
LIQUID MEASURE
THE BEERY ONE: “Two pintsh ish one quartsh. Four quartsh ish one gallon. One
gallon ish (hie) one drunk!"
“Flinderino”: It is strange that, while
Binghi deals out tomahawk or nulla-nulla to any
member of his own race who attempts to
steal his Nellie, yet he seems to passively
submit when the villain happens to be an
Asiatic or other foreigner. On the banana
plantations in North Queensland it is
nothing unusual to find a blacks’ camp
only a few yards from a Chinaman’s
humpy, and John to’ be on extremely in-
timate terms withjf 1 j young gins. Often-
times when the jU Joe goes away on a
walk-about or to "'attend a distant cor-
roboree John’s particular Maggie will stay
behind to keep him company. Certainly,
the Chinaman usually has a loaded gun in
the humpy, ostensibly for wallabies; but
even so it puzzles me why the blacks don’t
occasionally let the Chinky feel the point
of a spear or two. I v s in Cairns one
day when three exempt- i Kanakas, each
with a black gin in tow, called on the
Presbyterian parson and asked to be
married. After consulting a few Govern-
ment officials the parties entered the kirk,
and the sky pilot blended the hues. Such
mixtures are common enough in the
North. That same week I was cross-
ing the Barron River in the ferry punt,
and had as fellow passengers two Japan-
ese men and two aboriginal girls.
In response to a iilqegtion from the old
ferry-woman the f is-confessed that “we
bin all get nilrryC together s’morning,
Missus.” There’-' two muOT of his anti-white polishy
in Australia.
*l . *
“Celia Lloyd”: I'm - moisting a danger
signal over “Pick’s” prescription (B. 28/BT3) for
treating a tick-bitten dog. The main trouble is that
you never find the insect until its head is well
buried, while the other end is growing like a
piccaninny on a melon patch. If you try to draw it
out with your fingers you are going to inoculate the
dog with a dose of poison, which means good-bye
pup ; and if you use the scissors and cut the tail-end
off the head remains in under the hide, in which
case you may as well make a job of it and cut the
dog’s head off, as it’s ten to one on an inquest. In
the outfit of an experienced cattle-man in the tick
area you will generally find a small piece of clock-
spring steel, with one end shaped into claws. After
making the dog fast, the cattle-man cuts into the
animal s hide at the side of the tick’s head, breaking
into its place of entry (but he doesn’t hold the body
of the insect while operating). Then he dopes the
tick with lysol, turps or kerosene, and uses the little
instrument mentioned as you would a claw hammer
on a nail, but very gently, and generally he gets the
poisonous little beast out to the last whisker-end.
Finally he holds the wound open and doses with
more lysol or permang. pot., allows no sunbaths for
a few days, and thus reckons he is giving the dog a
real good run for his money.
“11. J.N.” : Circumstances would have it
that I should board Out-back on a small selection.
The day of my arrival the missus was wearing a
shabby cloth cape. A few days later I saw it
covering a sick lamb, which was bedded in the
pantry, and not long afterwards I detected the
thing acting as foster-mother to three orphan chicks.
But its main use was to keep the cold draught off
the bread dough, as it worked in its dish beside the
fire. No dough ever rose properly if the cape was
giving first-aid to the sick or diseased live stock.
But it was the only time I thoroughly enjoyed the
dough.
* * * *
“Poker”: Concerning no-license. The habit
which it encourages of imbibing by the keg instead
of by the glass is pernicious without a doubt. But
there are worse consequences than that. A No-
license district in which you can’t buy three-
penn’orth of beer or sixpence worth of whisky, but
cm buy wine (?) in any quantity from a nobbier to
a demijohn, is a place compared with which the King
country of Maoriland is a Utopia. I can speak from
personal experience of some No-license districts in
the Mallee (Vic.), and I enter all and sundry of
them for the Inebriate Stakes. In one of these No-
license towns I saw more beautiful drunks in one
month than I would see in Melbourne in a year.
Ihis ‘pinky” drinking is undermining a
large number of otherwise good Australians. My
brother is a doctor in a Mallee town, and he assures
me that it is to be ranked as one of the greatest
scourges yet. He says he could frequently cure some
diseases which prove fatal, were it not that the
diseased one is saturated with this shocking “wine.”
(Of course this may be swank on his part, but
take it for what it is worth.) Anyhow, I know
from my own experience in quite a different pro-
fession that the curse is vividly existent, and it is a
direct result of No-license. And the most lamentable
part of the business is that the Water-waggon party
can’t or won’t see the connection.
Australian” finds an object-lesson in
S. America :
Away back prior to 1890 this city of Mendoza
was a poor, straggling, more-or-less Indian encamp-
ment surrounded by neglected vineyards and dilapi-
dated irrigation works, the remains of the old Inca
and early Spanish civilisation. When Darwin
struck the place, after crossing the Andes from
Santiago de Chile, he found the community too
tired for anything more strenuous than handing out
polite talk and cheap melons for the delectation of
the stranger. The whole outfit was then worth about
3£d. •
About the year 1895 a level-headed Argentine got
up in his place and whooped for a prohibitive tariff
on all foreign wines, and he kept that whoop going
until he got the tariff he wanted. Then Mendoza,
seeing some hope ahead, lifted its tired neck off the
hairless dog which it used for a pillow in those
days, . and went out and borrowed a hoe and got
busy in a listless kind of way.
In the altered circumstances the old wrwi
and hoop-iron pruning knife soon began to ? P ° Ugh
fits oft the landscape, and after a littlp « tpar Pro-
got to hear about it away over in 6 peo))le
swarthy men quitted theirmacarom and Trii T , hen
Rations, and came along each with a bund ' , plan ‘
ijuropean vine-cuttings, and proceeded TT of
them for all they were worth. 1 Their rfW Pr ° pagate
far successful that to-day Mendoza is tv, ° ts Were so
perous city of its size in South America m ° Bt pTOS '
In 1890, 53, immigrants arrived and ~ „
went away again. In 1907, no lest’ /t ™ os %
dumped their bundles on the mat and *? an , 12 -°OO
figures since then are not haX hut W’ T h«
still continues. y ’ but the increase
ta’iSr l Sjv e ,h S„'e, Wer i„ B ?b°o o , 0 ' 1-
hectares under first-class French and Unban 3 1°’ 0 1 00
and 900 establishments turned out 1331 440 to<^ S ’
of wine over and above what was required for
consumption. Large quantities of wnf 1 ' ocal
distilled from the residues Sp,r,ts were a^o
The population of the City of Mendoza
over 60,000, all dependent on the nrodneH now .
wine. There are up-to-date trams, electric 0
water-supply. Schools are numerous and exeent
good. Many of the citizens who deserted
macaroni plantations a few vears ago cut twL°l d
side edge in motor-cars, and a few run to '
For the others more than 100 passenger and fr»-
trains run through the Central Station
And all this me about in a few vears i-'w u
the simple plan of securing the home market to
gin with, for the home producer. ’ be ‘
Does Australia want to know how to fill it?
spaces ? Come to Mendoza and see. Or, n ee travel
lmg to Argentina is expensive, accept this S'
unvarnished narrative instead. 1 a n ’
From the Bridge : —
The Bulletin's information (25/9/'l3) concerning
h ¥ e T w , re ? k th e Federal liner Devon at Welling on
(M.L.) heads was absolutely correct, as most master
mariners trading to the port would agree and
the second Marine Court of inquiry has entirely
tw <t d v, f i T ' , Nothin S c °uld be more certain thit
that the harbormaster’s fad light (on Falcon Shoal!
had engineered the wreck.” The first Court of In
quiry refused to entertain any such contention, but
the second Court had additional evidence, notablv
tfiat of the local surveyor to Lloyd’s Register who
frequently went out to the wreck between the date
ot the disaster and the second • inquiry. He told
the Court at the re-hearing that he had had exceri
ence similar to the master and officers of the Devon
of being in the white sector of Somes Island (harbor!
light, then a squall coming, then a red light appear
mg which seemed to be the safe red sector at Somes
but, in reality, was the red warning on Falcon Shoal!
lne Court then decided that the Devon was stranded
through the master mistaking the Falcon Shoal buoy
light for the red sector on Somes in such circum-
stances as to make him blameless for the disaster.
Captain Caunce’s certificate was, therefore, returned!
but no costs were allowed, which seems to me a bit
illogical. Personally, I reckon owners, officers, crew
consignees and anybody else who has suffered loss
through a ship being lured into danger bv negli-
gence, folly or plain ignorance on the part of the
authorities should not have to bear it. The Elinga-
mite was lost in Maoriland waters, and many lives
sacrificed owing to a grave fault in the chart'issued
to the skipper. After years of hardship, sorrow and
disgrace it was discovered that he is the victim of
an official blunder in charting the local seas. The
paltry compensation recently voted him by Parlia-
ment can never recoup him for all he suffered; still
A NATURAL DEDUCTION .
MARY: “By Cripes! Mine tin kit dat pfeller
bin goin' tonga big corroboree. ”
it is something, and the State, having admitted the
justice of compensation in that case, must keep on
the logical course by handing to the captain of the
Devon with his certificate a cheque for the expense
he has been put to by deceptive lighting (on the final
word of the Marine Court) of the principal harbor-
way of Maoriland.
A PEAN ON THE IGNORANCE AND LACK OF
COMBINATION PREVALENT AMONG COWS,
BIRDS, DEATH, MILKMAIDS, BACON, GIRLS,
EGGS, CHEESE, THE GROCER, PROVIDENCE
AND MYSELF.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A gentle cow that lightly draws its breath,
And whisks the grey mosquito with its tail—
What should it know of death ?
The bird that sings upon the swaying bough,
And lays a little egg serene and pale—
What recks its soul of cow ?
The pretty milkmaid, elbow deep in curd,
Which grocer wights shall some day sell as cheese—
What cares she for the bird ?
The grober, slicing bacon nicely weighed,
A snowy apron cloth upon his knees —
What dreams he of the maid ?
Should bacon, cheese and eggs and death combine
To make the things they well might know quite
plain, ,
Would Jane’s clear eyes still shine?
Should milkmaid, grocer, bird and cow arrange
To know or reck or care for me or Jane —
Would young romance grow 1 strange ?
The simple fact is, nothing knows or cares
How very sweet and scarlet are the lips
One little maiden wears.
This old, kind world has shadows still to fling
And common matters fade in love’s eclipse
When two hearts start to sing.
Yet, in the breathless pauses of the song, ,
All bleak, harsh voices in the chorus blend
And set the music wrong.
The well-kissed dimples of the girl endure,
But lovers’ meetings have their sordid end
In T.P. furniture.
N.s.w.
GEORGE STREET.


TINKER
TAILOR
SOLDIER
SAILOR
RICH MAN
POOR MAN
BEGGAR
THIEF
ms
m.
A:
y : -:
itoras
as
.
■ '■£ 'S',:
•> C 'VC
SaS
’s's*4
i&
a)?
i
isi^s
S*«sw
n
vv
asstlll
Si
iM
it'-v
M
M
:fZ$
m
a«s
58ST®
>V,‘t-ST.
1
?&$
£*v-‘;
«$»
m
3*v
|§m
»' -v
ra&SS
®SS3
US
i
m
m
m
>'■-
is
sc*.
- y ■
Afts
wM
mi
ffMM
m
Mi
fay
mMi
m
£oi£o:^M r &‘i
sat®
i-w.
ww
m
■
Mm
9 . ■
pM
M'
W/I--
%o.a- :
tte
in
..-v
ter? ;•■:■;
r
m
I
S^v-Ti
m
m%o!t
*•&
m
WMM§.
a-'in
3s£
n
ti
S2*3
££-. -
y-:-
j.y.
ill??
m
m
•m*.
V * ‘‘j / ■ i
is§l-u : jp f«?.
. 1
7M
W:
m"i
m
f k
•K -
M & l
mm
'Em
mOJI
m
. , s'V " * v
v-'? ;v
■'. v • v>}
Ik
>•4.^
WMmm
r M
mgsMg.
:• r j
tm
m
as
\S*
>:'-■
\£
#§*
r*
fcs
■> ;
,v-
-#3
,: r
[£g?
gasSS
* 0
* t^sA-
%
'-'/ **v.'
{«•<
ps^
61
■■■ipa
?S!W
WW‘
: :-. ■-. ,' *
nrap'
V>v.
||
i£
aj:
gssa
ivK?
V
•®li
f? 5
s'-
.Tt
siiSS
iV V
JftS
\mM
-mMm
i‘wm
■mm
"s.
%
Jf4
y?
a
BR
1
'1
n
®S
&&A
. *"S
-
• --y
/•’‘S
.j'--
®li
wag
c-
,>*<*'
V^-V^
. f r;'
m
Sv
ssiS
if.
Sffi
ysi
.%; Sir
K-%®
mm
m.
: $'M
f2l
jm
l.
L
- - i •
«•■* -y-.i. /■. •>•"- •'— •
Cobra,” Sfte Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Is a busy
Burglar too.
While the bear
Holds up the light,
Chunder makes
The sharp steel bite
Through the safe—
A perfect minel
And his eyes
Like “COBRA” shine.
Chunder’s conscience
Does not hurt.
What is gold
But dross and dirt ?


A New Lease of Health.
“ The wonders brought about by this
preparation are no less manifold than
amazing.”
vSo writes a well-known physician in
the Medical Press and Circular one
of sixteen thousand doctors who have
testified to the value of Sanatogen in
various kinds of weakness, loss of nerve-
power, impaired digestion, brain-fag,
sleeplessness, and general weakness.
Sanatogen, the tonic food with lasting
effects, has given a new lease of health
to more than a million sufferers, in-
cluding many of the most distinguished
people in the land.
Nerve Power Restored.
The reason for Sanatogen’s great
efficacy in nervous disorders has been
pointed out by no less an authority than
Sir Charles A. Cameron, C. 8., M.D.,
Public Analyst of Dublin, who states:
“Sanatogen is an excellent nerve food,
containing a large amount of- organic
phosphorus in exactly the form in which
it can be easily absorbed.”
But Sanatogen does more than revivify
the nervous system. It also builds up
the muscular tissues and has a beneficial
effect upon every organ of the body.
Write for a Free Booklet.
All who feel run down, weary and
depressed—Nature’s warning of nervous
weakness —should write to-day for a Free
Booklet, “ The Art of Diving,” to Messrs.
A. Wulfing & Co., 17, Bond Street,
Sydney, N.S.W. Kindly mention this
paper when writing.
Sanatogen is sold by all Chemists,
price 2s. 6d., 3s. 6d., and 6s. 6d. per tin.
i 1 a
>■
X/r
?!
•r
V
ML L a
'X
nw i
t «Li
•x \
X
V
“ I have watched the effects of Sanatogen upon persons suffering
from various kinds of weakness and loss of nerve-power, and 1
have proved it to be most valuable.” —Lady Henry Somerset.
“A Scoundrel”: Genre’s latest oubreak (it is called
“Robert le Diable”) puts a severe strain on Uie
imagination and sense of humor —-if you happen to
have such a thing about you. Adeline is supposed
to be a resurrected nun —in a cheerful, chirpy ballet
skirt that looks like the froth off a well-drawn
long beer. She flutters round; the stage on her
toes to the twittering of flutes, balances on one
toe, hops to and fro like a curate, and slaps her
eloquent feet together in the air in a manned cal-
culated to delight the heart of any bishop. It is
a beautifully expressive performance. You can feel
the ecclesiastical atmosphere thickening about you,
and sniff the incense and collection plate. The
depraved wretch who sat next t 6 me said that it
looked more like a barmaid’s holiday, and that
no duke he ever heard of threw himself into the air
and rotated like Volinin. He said he would like- to
give the jumping pair some simple thing for trans-
lation into dancing. Let Volinin tell Gen6e that
he lias lost ail his money at the races, and will be
glad of a loan till next Tuesday week, when he
expects to get a remittance of £25 from home.
Then let Gen6e tell Volinin that she is sorry, but
she can’t think of it, as she doesn’t approve of
horse-racing, and has lately been forced to take in
lodgers in order to make ends meet. (He said
that “making ends meet” could lie illustrated
nicely with feet-slapping.) Could Volinin recom-
mend her to a good, cheap butcher,, as the one she
is dealing from doesn’t supply good meat, and has
tried to cheat her out of 255. 3d. and two pounds
of steak? Then, he suggested, Volinin might get
angry and tell her that she was an ungrateful
woman, considering that he had once' helped her to
throttle a red-haired landlord who had called on
her late one Thursday night for overdue rent
amounting to £7 9s. Bid. I was starting to ex-
plain my views with my feet when we were both
ejected for kicking up a disturbance. The magis-
trate (I suspect him of being a Gcnbe devotee)
told me that it wasn’t considered polite’ to converse
with heavy boots on. The push are waiting for a
chance to discuss the matter with him. The push
are all-eloquent with their feet.
“X.X.” : What a lot of Quinlanic “guff” was talked
about the inclusion of Felice Lvne in the opera co. be-
fore the Melbourne season had revealed that tuneful
young lady’s limitations. Advance paragraphs repre-
sented Felice as the leading lyric soprano prima
donna, who would appear in every part that : Melba
favors. A refreshing young and petite ■ Madame
Butterfly was expected of her. It. was taken . for
granted that she would play the herbine in “Louise”
and “Manon Lescant.” But up to date the cute
little Yankee girl has sung in five operas only
(“Rigvletto,” “The Barber,” “Hoffmann,” “Mar-
riage of Figaro” and “Faust”) —once only in
“Faust.” On the penultimate night of the season
she is to tackle the part of Mimi. in “La Bohbnie,”
previously taken by Brola. Brola, in fact, has
been the prima donna in all the Puccini-operas, as
well as the thrice-plaved “Aida” and “Louise.”
Also, she was wanted for Elsa in “Lohengrin.”
•During the first Quinlan visit to Australia she had
the easiest time of any of the principals, (but this
time she has been worked to death, so to speak,
“Harrison O.”: If a Repertory Theatre, why not
repertory acting? Few of Gregan McMahon’s pupils
can resist going for a cheap and stagey effect, even
though they deliberately flout an author’s instruc-
tions in doing so. In the last act of “Strife," Gals-
worthy directs that the Fatman leader and the Labor
leader, who have been carrying on a bitter fight,
shall, before parting, and when both have been thrown
over bv the men they have led, incline their heads in
token ‘ of mutual respect. But in the Melbourne
Repertory production of “Strife” the two performers
exchanged an absurdlv incongruous military salute
in accordance -with the best traditions of mellow-
drama.
The recent robbery and recovery of a pearl neck-
lace provided a lovely advt. for Courtneidge’s new
musical comedy at the London Shaftesbury.
The librettist had laid the second scene in the office
of a Bond-street pearl-dealer, and the “shaking” of
a pearl necklace was an incident in the plot.
Courtneidge’s show came due for production at about
the same time as the real stolen pearls were picked
up in the street by a workman, who thought they
were marbles or beads.
Charles MacMahon, of the old firm of MacMahon
brothers, back from London and other foreign places,
developed a sensible idea during his stay in the
Fog City. This a as to go forth personally with a
eino-camera, and film the Biggest City of the Earth,
not as the local inhabitant understands it, but as
the stay-at-home Australasian would like to under-
stand it. The result, which he has called “London
by Day and Night,” is 5000 ft. long, and occupied
10 weeks in the taking and considerable energy in
the way of obtaining special permits from various
Exalted Personages. To obtain a satisfactory pic-
ture of Big Ben on Westminster knocking out time,
MacMahon had to climb a ladder tied to a steeple,
or something like that. By the grace of the least
known Authority in English Society the interior and
exterior of Buckingham Palace were photographed,
likewise Windsor Castle, the Horse Guards (exterior
only), Covent Garden, Piccadilly, Ascot, Rotten
Row, the British Museum, Drury Lane, the Tower
of London, Westminster Abbey, Trafalgar Square,
and, as MacM. puts it himself, “everything likely
to interest the Australian, down to Petticoat Lane.”
In the drama line, the travelling entertainer was
particularly struck by “Lady Godiva” and “From
Mill Girl to Millionairess.” He secured the Aus-
tralasian rights of both.
H. D. Mclntosh’s new Tivoli Theatre in Adelaide,
which was opened with eclat, and other beasts and
refreshments, is one of the largest vaudeville houses
in Australia. The frontage to Grote-street is 86ft.
and the depth is 104 ft., with an open space of
about 23ft. at the rear. The dress circle is designed
to seat 238 customers; the stalls, 632 ; and the
gallery, 1300. The stage spread is 81ft. by 63ft. and
53ft. high, and the .old Tivoli building in King
William-street could fie deposited upon it and still
leave room for Manager Marcus to walk round.
“S.T.S.”: The Jeffries-Barr film, “Australia
Calls,” errs on the side of over-subtlety. There is
nothing to ram it home that the settler who refused
to fight was shot —like Brown in “An Englishman’s
Home” —as a result of so* refusing. Many of the
audience take his execution, as plain murder. The
Chinese general’s sporting action in washing his
hands after “shaking” with the traitor is half lost
through that shake having been so quick and unob-
trusive. The traitor, by the way, seems to be called
Rattray, but he gets no name at all till the thing
is half over. In particular, the really funny idea of
a hlackfellow (1 think) hammering a Chinaman (I
suppose) on the Declaration of War is lost through
hardly a glimpse of their faces- being given first.
Finally, the uniforms are so much alike that half
the time —test it for yourself—an., audience is afraid
to applaud in a battle scene for fear of cheering the
enemy. Certainly, the armed- figures that melt into
the racing tmd football scenes~Tmgbt easily be our
own soldiers. The story is such a fine orre -that I
make no apology for suggesting where it might have
been acted and filmed a bit more impressively.
Subtlety is the very last thing to be desired when
a lesson of patriotism is to be rammed home into
the mind of every spectator, dull of grasp or other-
wise.
The London cast for Bernard Shaw's new play,
“Androcles and the Lion,” includes O. P. Heggie, of
this country, as Androcles; also a lion, a centurion,
an emperor, a call-boy, an editor, a fruit-seller and
an ox-driver. Shaw describes the play as a “serious
picture of Rome in the time of the early Christians.”
And, of course, Shaw being Pshaw! nobody believes
him. It may be anything else, but serious—never !
“Billy T.”:' I see Harrison Owen resents my ven-
turesome opinion that the recently-popular stamp of
ramping melodrama is passing, and derides the
implication that plays like “On Our Selection” and
“Within the Law” are not precisely it. Only act-
ing makes the difference, says he ; but I lack the
wit to perceive it. If he cannot discover the differ-
ence between “The Wildest Woman in Wodonga” and
“Within the Law,” or between, say, Charles Darrell’s
melodramas and “On Our Selection,” it is no good
worrying him into wakefulness. 1 was not claiming
amazing artistic virtues for either production; but
“On Our Selection” is in some appreciable measure a
play of character, and “Within the Law” contains
ingenuity and rational human elements as different
from the fatuities of the cheaper Cockney melodrama
as a pneumonia blouse is from a grindstone. The
picture plav gives the lovers of the dramatic shilling
shocker such a surfeit of surging sensations that
they actually want human beings on the stage, and
“On Our Selection” is a hint of the change.
Leoncavallo, who threatened to become a famous
composer when “Pagliacci” first brought him into
notice, has written the score for a mere musical
plav, to be produced at the Prince of Wales’, London.
The librettist has made the heroine a telephone girl,
and the scene of the first act is a ’phone exchange.
The second is laid at Nice, where, presumably, the
plot gets mislaid and the leading characters intro-
duce irrelevant “turns.”
A Swansea (Wales) law-case seems to have estab-
lished the right of a free and enlightened British
inhabitant to hiss in a theatre. The man who did
so was asked to leave, but refused to go unless he
got his monev back. Then he was “removed,” and
for the struggle that ensued he recovered £5O
damages. Also, there was some dim remark about
Costs.
The Lincoln-Cass Films factory is turning out a
series of Australian pictures illustrating popular bits
of Australian verse (or prose), and is doing it well.
The co. started operations from a studio at Klstern-
wick, Melbourne. Hoyt’s picture hall in Bourke-
street —the boss whereof is Arthur .Russell, a good
Australian tooth-doctor —gave the first .of the locally
manufactured pictures its first show. Gordon’s
“Sick Stockrider” was the subject—a sure draw on
the bills, but not the easiest of themes for picture
treatment. George Bryant played the dying man,
whilst Godfrey Cass did the friend who shook his
pillows up. a bit. The incidents of the sick one's
old colonial days were arranged for interpolation
as the yarn proceeded. The death scene and the
kiddies romping on the “grassy mound” of the
deceased. were, easy things to finish up with. All
the.pictures are as good as the best imported, indeed,
the children,frisking about the grave is a fine photo-
graphic effort. .When the “Sick Stockrider” is
shown—it has had two successful innings at Hoyt’s
—the poem is recited by Roy Redgrave, ’ who gets
his best effects when the Stockrider and his mate are
on the screen, , and Bryant’s lips seem to move in
unison with the ,verse. There’s a wide field , of Aus-
tralian verse and short-story illustration , open to
the Lincoln-Cass exploiters, and they are working
steadily at it. Pretty soon they will have a big
repertoire of .popular recitation pictures, and the
fat-headed section *of the public that can’t be
bothered to read anything in a book will have a
light literary education forced upon it.
“Ab. Jones”: “The Butterflies,” at Sydney’s Little
Theatre, get nearer to the class of show Pelissier’s
Follies give London than any other invading merry-
makers. What struck me as the roost humorous
touch at Pelissier’s corroboree' was his drop-curtain,
-■winch is stained with-splashed egg. One gets the
idea "Immediately that on the previous evening the
sheet or dueument rang down just in time to save
the performers.
On October 1 Mrs. Hele-Pollock, who claimed to
be the only woman theatre-lessee in Australia, went
out of business at Adelaide 'Royal. Herbert Myers,
her nephew, who has done mo St of the work since
Pollock died, stays .on as resident manager for the
Williamson firm, the new lessee. "The lady, born
in Perth in 1844, was a solo dancer arid burlesque
actress in Melbourne and Maoriland in the 'ftti’.s. “I
learnt all my pantomime from the Ridgwav brothers,
the finest in that line that ever came to Australia,'”
she savs. Tours lasting 13 years all over Asia fol-
lowed ; and she married F. H. Pollock at Singapore,
incidentally. The couple were in management at the
Adelaide Academy of Music when it was burnt down
the first time. After that, more Asia, some of the
time being spent managing for Sheridan and “Fun
on the Bristol.” Then Melbourne again, and finally
a lease of Adelaide Royal, when Wybert Reeve gave
it up. Pollock died five years ago, and his widow
has lately married again.
“J.F.H. (from London) : “Australian Nell" sounds
very much like a play written around Nellie
Stewart. But it isn’t—it is a four-act piece i ust
produced at the Junction Theatre, Manchester’ and
is supposed to be “a drama of the goldfields”’ The
principal characters are Carrington, a goldfields
doctor; a chief villain (Spanish), “Sambo" an
American nigger; and Nell, who is a pure gem of
“the backblocks of Queensland.” The villains trv to
get the pure gem falsely accused on circumstantial
evidence of stealing a “bag of nuggets,” and various
other plots are contrived against her pure genimi-
ness. Some scenes of gay and giddy life in London
are dragged in, after which Nell is discovered back
again in the wilds of Queensland, where she polishes
off the principal villain in “a squatter's hut”—it
being well known in London that Australian squatters
always live in huts. “A breezy bustli&i-
melodrama” is the verdict of the critics, who of
course, know all about the Queensland backblocks
and the pure gems that inhabit those parts.
“St. Maori”; Since the J. C. Williamson-Meynell
and Gunn-Hugh J. Ward forces were hitched up the
effect has been marked in Maorifand. At the Wel-
lington Opera House, for instance, there have been
fewer legitimate bookings during the past year than
for 15 years past. Any old show can get reasonable
terms front the lessees (J. C. W. & Co.) to play on
a percentage, the firm taking grave risks at times in
the effort to make a dim resemblance of rent when
none of its own shows are around. The combine
has made M.L. almost solely dependent on it for
attractions. The only other companies operating at
all (and their visits are about as scattered as
Blastus, the king’s chamberlain, who only happened
once) are the Plimmer-Hamilton players and Geo.
Marlow’s crowd, with the Taits dropping into the
Town Hall now and again. How different from 20
years ago, when we had, beside Williamson & Co.
Brough and Boucicault, Bland Holt, the late Johnny
Sheridan, Charles Holloway, Frank Thornton, Charles
Arnold, Walter Bentley and others giving of their
best, and a very decent best it was. C. R. Bailee,
for countless years lessee of His Majesty’s Theatre
at Auckland, has;now come into line and relinquished
his rights to Williamson & Co., which gives the firm
a pull in that town, Wellington and Christchurch,
and, what js ever so delightful, the firm, being the
only provider of theatrical shows worth considering,
is in a position to' practically dictate terms to the
theatre-owners. The late .1.0. W. was always a
leaseholder, and, on results in mind, I am inclined
to think, that his policy was a sound one. The
erection of the new Comedy theatre in Melbourne is
the first break-atyay from the old man’s policy.
“4.7.”,‘fr0m a British shipyard :
In his par., (B. 2C/6/’l3) “Orient” tanks up with
sarcasm till it .spills over the edge and floods out
his sensible remarks. It is a good thing to hammer
home the facts of the Japanese shipbuilding pro-
gramme, but it is dead wrong to jeer at England
for accepting a contract to build one of the bat-
tlers. The pity is that England hasn’t continued to
build every one of the Jap. ships. The Japs, wen
too wise to be content with that arrangement, how-
ever, and took care to have men of their own sent
to the British yards to learn the game so that they
could go back and take charge of the job in Japan.
The result is seen in the building of three new
Dreadnoughts in Jap. yards. Again, it is an excel-
lent thing for British yards to be building battle-
ships, as they do, for Brazil and Chile and Japan
and all sorts of other countries, for the good reason
that if trouble comes with any country, the Admi-
ralty has the right to seize all vessels in the yards,
hastily pile on the finishing touches, dump guns,
ammunition and men on board, and give them a
in the British' fleet. “Orient” asks, with sar-
eatan : “Can’t we oblige, too? Cockatoo Island could
build 'at least a little ship for Japan. There’s money
in it. ” "Sty oath ! Let Australia go ahead and build
one, or one -dozen —if Japan will let her. If Aus-
tralia can perfflN.de Japan to pay the exes, of put-
ting down plant dwid shops and training men to
build battleships, so vouch the better for Aus. 1
harflly fancy, though, that Japan would do it even
if Aus. offered to carry out 'the job gratis.


tf.'JTV:
ft,
p
£
n
v\
Bibendum lecturing on Mtchelin Tyres.
Quality, Gentlemen, is the most noteworthy feature about
MioHolin Tyros
The same stones which have the audacity to attack and injure the tyres on a
multi-milliohaire’s automobile attack and injure the tyres of the ordinary
automobilist. <,
Consequently, we see no reason why we should make tyres of the best quality
for our rich clients, and of an inferior quality for the man of ordinary means.
No ! We prefer to concentrate the whole of our manufacturing resources upon
the production of
One Quality Only —The Best.
Nothing short of that can satisfy us—or you.
We affirm once more that
You don’t know a good tyre, unless you’ve tried a
To be obtained from
All the Leading Garages.
ANZ. 15
THE LONE HAND” for Good Stories and Bright Articles.
Price 6d.
34£*
THE VERY LATEST!
The Last Word in Oil Tractors
- . -is undoubtedly
“MARSHALL.”
OUR Principals (Messrs. Marshall Sons & Co., Ltd.)
have spent a huge sum of money to perfect and place
on the market
The Only Successful and Reliable Oil Tractor.
Many so-called Oil recently sold in this State are
now “out of commission ” i>r filling up some gap in
the farm fence, but the “MARSHALL” is demon-
strating all over the World its claim to the title of
"The World’s Champion Oil Tractor.”
MADE IN TWO SIZES—
Class E equals 16 ordinary farm-horse
power, 30 to 35 B-H.P.
Class F equals 32 ordinary farm-horse
power, 60 to 70 B.H.P.
Fitted with Two-speeds, Winding Drum, Awning, Plowing
Draw Bar, in (addition to Hauling Bar.
USES ORDINARY KEROSENE AS FUEL.
SEND FOR CATALOGUES. CASH OR LIBERAL TERMS.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO. LTD.
The Engineers* Depot, CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.


7 Ui:
mm
ivtwtv
,w/-
Fruit Salad Dish and Spoon, pure sil
ver-plated, highly burnished, cut crystal glas
dish.
m.
NS
2J/-
Sugar Scuttle, pure
silver plated, hand engraved
floral design.
7/6
Preserve Dish, silver-plated
frame, fancy floral China “Shell”
Dish.
Egg Frame and Spoons, pure
silver-plated, nickel silver, gilt-
lined, richly embossed.
ORDER BY MAIL
FROM
uamsm a m «nii!
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER -
7/6
Juvenile Single Egg
Cup, Stand and Snoon,
pure silver-plated.
The House with the largest variety of beauti-
ful, up-to-date Wedding Gifts in all
Australasia. We send promptly, pay postage,
and promise your complete satisfaction.
WRITE FOR OUR FREE SILVERWARE CATALOG.
15/6
Solid Silver
Candlestick.
Post Free.
Lucky
8-hour
Art Union
Tickets.
&
%
Post Free.
Lucky
8-hour
Art Union
Tickets.
12/6
Fern Pot, p>-re, silver-plated on
white metal, beautifully embossed, 3iin.
high. Others, 15/6, 25/-, 30/-, 40/-.
20/-
Cream Jug, pure
silver-plated, hand en-
graved “Fern” design.
217-
Teapot, pure silver-plated, hand-
fluted engraved bands.
iW
el
SMSSS
mm
- iii
37/6.
Bread Board and Knife, pure
silver-plated, handsomely embossed,
Knife has Sheffield Steel Blade.
807=817 George Street, Sydney.
12/6
Solid Silver
Candlestick.
25/-
Cake Basket, pure silver-
plated, richly hand engraved.
35/-
Entree Dish, pure, silver-plated
-’ti nickel silver, highly burnished. Size,
11 in. Others, £2, £2 ss.
25/- •
Butter Dish, English Oak, real
porcelain China lining.
5/0
Tile Teapot Stand, pare
silver-plated nickel silver Mounts,
richly colored.
H
i! II i
39
y zua
SOMOI
' tj
s&naia
a
25/-
Dinner Cruet, pure silver-
plated nickel silver, richly bur-
nished, crystal bottles. With
Shield, 26/6.
QUALITIES
IT is an admitted fact that present tobacco
crops are eminently unsatisfactory, and
manufacturers who are compelled to
purchase at the present time cannot obtain
so good a tobacco as hitherto. It is owing
to this deterioration that ! many cigarettes
are degenerating in quality.
THE manufacturers of “Winfred
Cigarettes are in a unique position.
They hold an enormous stock of the
finest selected tobacco purchased during the
past three or four years, so that they are able
to maintain, for some years to come, the
present high-class quality of their cigarettes
without increasing the price.
10 for 6d.
CIGARETTES
■1 '\ • ;
To be obtained throughout Australasia.
10 for 6d.
Sole Manufacturers : ARDATH TOBACCO CO. LTD.
London.


Freedom, Ease 8 Comfort
WELMAR
Shirt
Pat. 1274
24/5/’ll.
Stocked by
Leading
Mercers and
Outfitters.
Manufactured by
Welch, Margetson 8 Co.
Pty. Ltd.
*r-.
<^s-
t/J?,
0
vhm
'vVr'.’J
S3®B
&mfil
Registered
NOTE THE SLOT
The Best Tooth Powder
in The Best Container
|ewsbury&Brown’s
i Oriental
Tooth Powder
6- & I s /
in the
United Kingdom
All the Family may
use the same box.
WHOLESALE AGENTS in SYDNEY.
Messrs. Elliott- Bros. Ltd.
„ , F.H.Faulding &Ca
For the Country Horseman
The saddle here illustrated is expressly designed
for country use, for stock riding, etc., and is built
of the best materials throughout. If any of our
friends are requiring such a saddle they will find
this a genuine bargain.
It has a hogskin seat, a plated bar-tree, extra
long flaps, with points to buckle below. An economi-
cal feature is the skirt, which extends all round
and thus adds years of wear to the saddle by pro-
tecting its interior from the weather. It has a
deep, “sweopy” seat, 4in. kneepads, nickel-plated
iron stirrups, and double buckle leather girth The
price complete is £3/15/- Mention of The
Bulletin when ordering will ensure your having a
leather surcingle given in free, and the saddle will
be forwarded freight paid. It is to be obtained
from J. P. Tally. 388 Sussex Street, Sydney.
ARE YOU FAIR TO YOURSELF?
V7OU begin to
* look old, with
those grey and
faded hairs,
always so con-
spicuous. A
bottle of the
world-famed
Lockyer's
Hair Restorer, 1/6
gives health to the Hair and restores the
natural colour. It cleanses the scalp , is
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
DON’T LOOK OLD.
We are the Only Manufacturers of
Scientific Glassware in Australia.-
We make Scientific Instruments for
everv class of Trade, Industry or Pro-
fession in which they are used
Medical, Chemical, Dairying, Agricul-
tural, Brewing, Meat Works, Bakers,
Vignerons, etc.
We repair every class of instrument,
too. If you want instruments for any
special purpose, write us ibout it.
Our Booklet is Free; shall we send
you a copy?
WILSON NAFIS S CO. LTD.,
Wharf Street. Brisbane, 0.
THE Australian Masa^ne— -THE LONE
» HAND. The National Monthly. Price, 00.
I
u
1
t
b
II
Here it is.
Note the Design.
Perfectly Balanced and
Rigid.
Nothing to get out of
Order.
Don’t Waste Time! Buy
the“IWAN”Post Hole Digger
“Life, however short, is made still
shorter by wasted time,” says G. F.
Butler. “When you waste time, you
waste energy, vitality, and character.
It means the waste of opportunities
that will never come back.”
So when you waste time digging post
holes with crowbar and spade, you
also waste energy, vitality and. oppor-
tunities of carrying out other jobs on
hand.
The '“IWAN” Post Hole Digger
is a creator of opportunities. It saves
time, by digging post holes one-third
quicker than other methods ; it saves
energy and vitality, by abolishing the
strenuous and wearying back-breaking
fencinsr methods.
The “IWAN” Post Hole Digger
bores into the ground quickly and
cleanly, making the hole just big
enough for the post, which means
little ramming and a firmer fence.
It empties easily, and has nothing
to get out of order. Splendid for
planting fruit trees, or boring for
water. Send for one To-Day.
3456789 10 12 14in.
7/- 7/- 7/- 11- 7/6 8 6 9/6 10/- 27/- 34/
M^pKerson^
Proprietary Ltd.
Machinery and Tool Merchants,
554-66 & 582-88 Collins Street, Melbourne.
STEVENS
Double g Single Barrel Shotguns
have Barrels and Lugs Drop-Forged in one piece.
Made of Specially Selected Steel —Strongest
where other Guns are Weakest.
For Catalogue and detailed information write to
ARTHUR H. HILL,
Australian Representative for J. Stevens
Arms and Tool Company,
a.P.O. BOX 86,
ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
letters copied
WHILE WRITING
(IN INK)
by using your own Letter
Paper, Invoices, etc., with this
Copying book. You simnly in-
sert your Letter paper (as
illustrated) then write: and
the act of writing produces a
perfect letter and a perfect
copy" in the book. There is no sign of your having
ta ßook a N O S P C. : /20°0 P co^ie r s at dth e er S 2oo letters size 10
by 8 in., or 400 size 8 by 5, price 3/9; ?r Book
N S C./400 copies 400 or 800 respectively, price 5/“
post free, cash with order Special Dainty Octavo
Book, making 200 copies, for 3/- P-0., or double
caDacitv for 4/3. Sample of the wonderful Zan-
etic Ink Paper, which makes the copy, free, if
stamped, addressed envelope sent to
8- B. ZANETIC, Welford Rd., LEICESTER, ENCLAND^
FOR WOUNDS, CUTS AND SORES"
Just wash the part clean, rub in a little
WILKINSON’S
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT
and you’ll have the skin healed and healthy
quicker than with any other ointment on earth.
Everyone says so who has used it. W rite for a
tin now. 1/6, posted 1/9.
J. WILKINSON, Chemist,
2] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane.
THE Best Stories written by Australian
Writers appear in The Lone Hand
Magazine. Price. 6d. monthly.
HORLICK'S
MALTED MILK
mi
V •
/f *fAHTS |NV* V _
'“OKINC OR MU*
*^* J ?s* malt tv r 4,t * .
Advance
Australia!
Australians have al-
ways been noted for
knowing a good thing
when they see it,
and the enormous
popularity of Horlick’s Malted Milk in Australia
fully bears out this fact. Horlick s is the great
Food-Drink for all ages, from the feeding infant to
the aged and infirm, and for all ages in between.
It is ready for use and requires no cooking, and is
a delicious Food-Drink. It is. made under the
most hygienic conditions, and is the most easily
digested food beverage.
Ask Jot Horlick’s e Soda Fountain.
A SPECJAL OPPORTUNITY.
Charles Dickens’s
Comolete Works.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
dickens.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DTCKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
DICKENS.
dickens.
A Wonderful Edition
of the Complete Works
of Charles Dickens is now
available. The Standard
Edition is beyond ques-
tion the most attractive
and most useful edition
yet offered to the public.
It is copiously illustrated
with the famous original
illustrations by “Phiz”
(H. K. Browne), Cruick-
shank and Leach, Sey-
mour and Cattlemole, a
large proportion of these
being beautifully colored.
The illustrations also in-
clude reproductions of
famous places mentioned
in Dickens’s Works, such
as Gray’s Inn, Goswell-
road, and many others.
To each novel a short
illustrated introduction
has been written, giving
many particulars which
tend to make the Works
even more interesting
than they usually are-
The volumes are printed
on antique wove paper,
made specially for this
edition ; they are strongly
and tastefully bound in
cloth with gold lettering.
At the present day it
is unnecessary to say any-
thing in praise of Dick-
ens. The Characters in
his volumes are known
and loved throughout the
whole of the English-
speaking world. His
works appeal to all, be-
cause of his insight into
human nature and his
keen sense of humor. No
library is complete with-
out a set of Dickens’s
Works. The writings of
Charles Dickens are suit-
able for young and old,
and no better or more
beautiful or more useful
edition than the Stand-
ard Edition has ever been
issued.
Mr. J. A. Christopher-
son, of French Island,
who has purchased a set,
writes: —
“I am very much
pleased with the work,
and consider it an im-
portant addition to my
library.”
Mr. A. C. Browne,
State School, Kyneton,
another purchaser who is
equally enthusiastic,
writes as follows :
“The binding is good,
the printing is clear and
easily read, and the illus-
trations are everything
that can be desired. In
short, it is an excellent
edition.”
LIFE OF DICKENS.
Two volumes are oc-
cupied with the “Life of
Charles Dickens,” by Mr.
F. G. Kitton, written
specially for the Stand-
ard Edition. This is a
complete and most fascin-
ating study of the life of
the great writer, illus-
trated with portraits of
Dickens printed by the
Vandyck process.
PORTRAIT OF DICKENS.
With each set of the
Standard Edition of
Dickens the publishers
are presenting a hand-
some photogravure por-
trait of Charles Dickens,
printed on paper 17in. by
24in., and suitable for
framing. The price of
this portrait by itself is
21s. net.
A Wonderful Offer.
In order that everyone may
have an opportunity of secur-
ing this unique Edition, we
have arranged a special plan
of easy payments which will
place the books within the
reach of evervone.
THE WHOLE 30 VOL-
UMES WILL BE DE-
LIVERED CARRIAGE PAID
FOR A FIRST PAYMENT
OF 45., THE BALANCE
BEING PAYABLE BY EASY
MONTHLY PAYMENTS.
With each set the handsome portrait of
Charles Dickens will be sent.
A FREE BOOKLET.
An Illustrated Prospectus has been prepared,
and will be sent post free to anyone using the
attached form, which will bring you full parti-
culars of our special offer. You should fill it
up at once, as only a limited number of sets are
available.
The STANDARD PUBLISHING CO. PTY., Ltd.,
228 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.; or
100 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Please send me, free of charge, and without
anv obligation on my part, your Illustrated
Prospectus of THE STANDARD EDITION OF
DICKENS, in Thirty Volumes, and particulars
of your plan of easy payments.
Name
(Send this form or a postcard, mentioning The
Bulletin —09103.)
Address


HOW TO PREY T ENT ACID STOMACHS
" AND FOOD FERMENTATION.
By a STOMACH SPECIALIST.
As a specialist who has spent many years
in the study and treatment' ‘of stomach
troubles, I have been forced to the conclu-
sion that most people who complain of
stomach trouble possess stomachs that are
absolutely healthy and normal. The real
trouble, that which causes all the pain and
difficulty, is acid in the stomach, usually
due to, or aggravated by, food fermentation.
Acid irritates the delicate lining of the
stomach and food fermentation causes wind,
which distends the stomach abnormally,
causing that full, bloated feeling. Thus
both acid and fermentation interfere with
and retard the process of digestion. The
stomach is usually; healthy arnd normal, but
irritated almost past endurance by these
foreign '“elements —acid and wind. In all
such cfiseS—and they 'comprise over 90 per
cent, of all stomach difficulties —the first and
only step necessary is to neutralise the acid
and stop the fermentation by taking in a
little warm or cold water immediately after
eating, half a teaspoonful of bisurated mag-
nesia, which is doubtless the best and only
really effective antacid and food corrective
known. The acid will be neutralised and
the fermentation stopped almost instantly,
and your stomach will at once proceed to
digest the food in a healthy, normal manner.
Be sure to ask your chemist for the bisu-
rated magnesia, as I have found other forms
utterly lacking in its peculiarly valuable
properties. —F.J.G.*
TRIED A SAMPLE.
“Some years ago I was subject to biliousness, from
which I could get no relief,” says Mr. W. G. Miller,
grocer, handheld (N.S.W.). “I was given a sample
of Chamberlain’s Tablets, and in a few hours after
taking them all traces of biliousness were completely
gone. Whenever there has been a recurrence of the
trouble I have got immediate relief from Chamber-
lain’s Tablets.”*
DANIEL CRAWFORD’S
PURE MALT WHISKY.
Crawford's is a Scotch Whisky of Superb Flavor
and Perfect Purity, and is the Finest Very Old
Scotch Obtainable* You cannot do better than
ask for Crawford's*
The Standard of Perfect Production.
POLITICAL
ITEMS
Somehow the arrival of the First Austra-
lian Fleet did not seem to rouse any wild
enthusiasm amongst our best families. They
stood distinctly aloof. And, as might be
expected, their attitude found an echo in
Prime Minister Cook, who, whatever else
may be urged against him, cannot be charged
of being one of our “very best families.”
Cook, although he labors under a hallucina-
tion that he is the real creator of the Aus-
tralian Fleet, speaks of the event as “a visit.”
ULSTER'S TANTRUMS.
Sir Edward Carson, in a calm and unimpassioned
speech, ridiculed the Radical attempts to convert
what was in essence Ulster’s, loyalty into treason.
“I tell you I won’t be disloyal — an' I will
be a rebel — an' I won’t be disowned—
an—an' I will go independent—so
there!!"
Still thinking imperially, he doesn’t Realise
that this is not a visit, but the home-coming_
of a navy to abide with us till the end of
things. Of course it is only natural that
some of our best families should stand aloof
from any joyous welcome to an Australian
First Fleet. The name has unpleasant asso-
ciations.
Australia’s borrowing habit slips quite
naturally into the official record of the
launching of its fleet. The Navy List for
1913 remarks, in a footnote, that George
E. Patey is “lent for duty” under the Aus-
tralian Government as Rear-Admiral in
command of H.M. Australian Fleet.
Watt’s “Greater Melbourne” Bill, what-
ever its defects for practical working pur-
poses, is commended to the local democracy
by Tory criticism. The Argus quite
gravely said of it: —
This huge elective council must, as we have ex-
plained, very soon pass under the complete domina-
tion of the populace, and in proposing it, Premier
Watt is really seeking to bring in municipal social-
ism by a subterfuge.
Now, apart from a few old “Constant
Readers,” there is nobody outside the Argus
office who doesn’t think of municipal social-
ism as a long-felt want.
Things are not too good, apparently, with
old Freetrade Father Bull. These were the
headings, all in large type and all inside two
columns of cablegrams, in a recent issue of
a Freetrade Sydney daily: “Dublin Riots ,”
“Outbreaks Carefully Planned ,” “Desperate
Street Conflicts“ Bottles, Bricks and
Stones Hurled at Police“ 13,000 Unem-
ployed ,” “Great Distress Prevailing,”
“Pawnshops Overloaded with Pledges,”
“Welsh Miners Out,” “Postmen Dissatis-
fied “Van Boys Knock Off,” “Manchester
Canal Strike,” “Births on the Decline.”
It was a busy day.
When the Scaddan Government was called
to office in Westralia it was on the under-
standing that it would at least do some-
thing to abolish imported State Governors —
functionaries against whom Scaddan had
spent many hours in declaiming. What
Scaddan and his mates actually are doing
with regard to Governors is to build them a
summer residence, at a cost of £5OOO, apart
from furnishings, etc. This residence, more-
over, is at Albany, 250 miles from the capi-
tal, so special trains for his unnecessary Ex-
cellency are going to cost a penny or two.
“Safety Valve” complains:—
Gosford (N.S.W.) has had another boiler explo-
sion, which resulted in the sudden death of one in-
dividual and the probable passing out of another.
The blow-up occurred in a sawmill, and was the
fourth in N.S.W. coastal sawmills, to my know-
ledge, within the last few months. It is an extra-
ordinary fact that while the law makes a great fuss
about the frequent inspection and surveys of boilers
afloat, and insists on persons in charge of them hav-
ing engineers’ certificates, there is no let or hin-
drance with regard to the persons who take abso-
lute charge of land boilers, while as for inspection
and survey there is absolutely none. Miss-the-’Bus
McGowen was a boilermaker before he took up the
trade of politician, and when he first went into Ma’s
Parliament 23 years ago he raised his voice in aid
of a Land Boilers Bill. He also raised his voice
again on the subject when he became Premier,
but, although he raised his screw, the Land Boilers
Bill never came to light. I suppose that while the
death-dealing boiler continues to burst only in coun-
try sawmills, nothing serious will be done. But in
the citv of Sydney’s most crowded corners are to be
found large boilers, in charge of men who think
nothing of adding a few more bricks to keep the
safety valve down, and if one of “these ironclads ex-
plodes (and some of our leading engineers are quite
expecting a cataclysm any day), probably the Bill
will get a fair show. It is a solemn fact that if a
youth of 14 was found in sole charge and control of
a highly dangerous boiler, in a congested part of
Sydney, smoking a cigarette the while, he would
stand' a risk of being arrested—for smoking the
cigarette.
John Forrest’s Federal Budget includes a
proposition for taking over the State debts,
which is a most admirable idea, and for
establishing a sinking fund of 10s. per £lOO
per annum for their repayment, which is.
also admirable, though if the figure were £1
per £lOO it would be better. Should this
work be effected, the Cook Government will
have justified its existence. Details are
rather scarce as yet, but even if there hap-
pen to be some weak points about the de-
tails any scheme which includes a reliable
and well-clamped-down sinking fund will call
for a shriek of commendation. It is to be
hoped that this sinking fund will be well
clamped down. Forrest comes from the only
State which has been fairly honest with its
sinking fund, which is some evidence in
favor of his sincerity.
The anti-Labor papers, which, being
nearly all good State Frighters, lately
avowed that the Fisher Government could
afford to be far more generous tp the States,
now pour gallons of sympathy over Treasurer
Bigjohn Forrest because Fisher left him some
warships to pay for and other commitments
totalling altogether £1,550,000. “In a way,”
says one sympathiser, who marvels at Big-
john’s magnanimity—“in a way, he attaches
no blame to Mr. Fisher.” The lofty spirit
of generosity does him infinite credit, especi-
ally in view of the fact that Fisher handed
over to Forrest a net surplus of £2,500.000
wherewith to meet the before-mentioned
accruing debts of £1,550,000. In similar Gif'-
cumstances this paper would forgive any-
body seven days a week. It might, in fact,
go so far even as to buy a drink for him.
The Norton-Griffiths agreement, whereby
a, Private Enterprise firm was to build
£3,000,000 worth of railways for N.S.W. on,
a, sort of commission principle, so that the,
more it made a railway cost the more, com-
mission it would receive, has, so to, speak,
fkzled itself to death. Its end was strangely
ignominious. Apparently Works Minister
Griffith had made the tentative agreement
behind the backs of h,is colleagues, thereby
in some measure jumping the claim of
Treasurer Cann. Some weeks ago, when
Wade moved that the blessed thing was un-
satisfactory the Labor, members voted as one
man that it wasn’t. Yet, they felt so
strongly that it was, that when the Minister
for Works introduced it the Treasurer was
hostile and the Premier spoke in denuncia-
tion. In fact, the proposition was thrown
out on its ear by its own enthusiastic sup-
porters of a few weeks ago. The quaint
cussedness of Party Government could go
no further. The verdict was simply : “This
scheme is a good one so long as the other
party says it isn’t. When the other party
has finished saying it isn’t then it begins
not to be.”
The Captain Cook legend turned up, as a
matter of course, in connection with the
arrival of the Australian fleet. Sydney
Telegraph published a dubious sort of pic-
ture showing a very small ship, two im-
mense boats coming to land, and two nude
people with spears on the shore. Under-
neath it was set forth: “Captain Cook’s
vessel, H.M.S. Endeavor, was the first Brit-
ish war vessel in these waters.” Dampier
and his old Roebuck might have been allowed
a mention.
In the days when Australia first began
to keep an eye on undesirable immigrants,
the wild and ignorant Tory used to howl
about how the United States and Canada
and other great countries admitted all and
sundry, and grew to magnificence as the
natural result. Probably the ignorant bag-
man sort of person didn’t know any better.
He also used to say that there was no pre-
cedent for a mere “dependency” like Aus-
tralia owning warships, having never heard
of the fleets or flotillas owned by Egypt,
Bulgaria, Greece, etc., when they were mere
dependencies, or of the Indian squadron. He
was also —being a mere bagman sort of per-
son —firmly convinced that Captain Cook
discovered Australia. Now that Marie
Lloyd, the fatted darling of the English
music-halls, has been refused admission to
the United States, on the mere suspicion
that the man she was travelling with wasn’t
her husband, it may dawn on a lot of back-
ward folk that there are places which are
much less free than Australia in the mat-
ter of their immigration laws. Marie, by
the way, isn’t an unusual case. A good
many years ago a lady first-class passenger
from England was stopped at New York and
sent back because she was a cigarette
smoker —which was getting things down
pretty fine. And ordinary suspects and
rejects are sent back by the thousand.
A JOY(?)-RIDE IN ANDY FISHER'S
CAR.
JOSEPH: “It's a nark! That's wot it is. And
there's nothing wrong with the machine -
only—only we don't seem to be able to
manage it!" (General astonishment.)
“Inver G.”: Bulletin par. of 25/9/T3
concerning the kindliness of suspending
Meehan for the rest of the session
was further justified a night or two
ago in N.S.W. Assembly. Onslow was
speaking, and that always exasperates
Meehan. Finally the Speaker called on the
Sergeant to remove him. “Whaffor?” de-
manded the member for the Darling as the
official shifter approached him. “No; I’m
damned if I’ll go.. I’m going to make a
blankety-blue-green dash scene to-night.”
The Sergeant, after carefully opening the
door, put his hand on Meehan’s shoulder.
With a sweep of his arm the member freed
himself, and the Sergeant stood off. Min-
isters Edden and Carmichael went to the
rescue and tried persuasion. “No,” < per-
sisted John, “ ! Lea’ me
alone; 1’11....Ye5, I’ll go in a minute
Leave me alone!... .Oh, you dirty thief!”
Then, as the ladies in the gallery fainted
in a body, Edden took the spectacle by the
shoulders and shoved him into the lobby.
Drysdale Brown. Attorney-General of
Watts’ un-reconstructed Ministry, is in
trouble once again. That unprecedented
lawyer now stands convicted of having taken
for granted the "fraud, incapacity and mis-
management” of the Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society’s directors because some
embittered ex-employees had made charges
against them. When these charges were
first brought before Parliament the intem-
perate Dry Brown proposed to throw out
all the directors and appoint a hew hoard
right away. But the Government inspectors
who were appointed to investigate, and who
worked har'd the job nearly a year
whilst examining the hooks for 10 years,
have reported that no. fraud, incapacity or
mismanagement is chargeable, and that the
Society is solvent. On the other hand some
of the. men who accused it of being other-
wise ar? themselves under strong suspicion
of dishonesty j yet these were they upon
whose word he proposed to act. The truth
is Dry Brown is a lawyer of limited ex-
perience, cursed with an unjudicial mind
and an alarmist disposition, and a very
dangerous person to be at large in any
Government.
TWIXT LOVE AND DUTY.
There is no justification for continuing a quaran-
tine which is seriously harmful to Sydney and the
State, commercially and in other respects'
—Daily Telegraph, fiercely.
I am doing my duty, and what I am doing re-
quires a little courage. (Ministerial cheers.) My
constituency is within the quarantine area as well
as Mr. West’s. I hope that I am trying to observe
my duty to Australia as well as to Sydney. (Mini-
sterial cheers.) — Joseph, apologetically.
FAIR PRISNER: “ You ungrateful 'ound! You
faithless wretch! You cow!! You—
you”
STERN GAOLER: “Courage, Joseph, courage!"
It is reported in a vague cablegrammic
sort of way that the five northern States of
Mexico have decided to secede from the
welter and set up for themselves. If they
do it will probably be the case of Texas
over again. Texas broke away from Mexico,
under the influence of United States set-
tlers. It set up as a separate republic.
Then Uncle Sam ate the republic. Should
the cablegram be less of a complete liar
than usual the end of Mexico is in sight.
However, it has enjoyed life while the show
lasted. A country which once had 250 revo-
lutions in 50 years certainly lost no
chances.
William McMillan, having no luck in the
struggle for a Liberal nomination in the
N.S.W. Assembly, presumably steps out for
good. In Federal politics be wasn’t quite
big enough to be a leader and a Kingston,
nor quite small enough to be a follower or
a Pumpkin Smith. Previously, when he was
in State politics, he had a spell as Treasurer
and made a holy show of the finances. Now
things have degenerated so much that he
isn’t wanted back for fear he should make
a holy show of the present bosses. Also his
starched respectability would be a constant
reflection on the ways of Fitzpatrick, and
his mineral-water habits would be a worse
reflection on the whisky thirst of some other
people. McMillan is an odd size in politics,
and as a good draper he must know that
odd sizes are hard to sell.
THE FIXING OF JOSEPH.
In replying to the Canadian Prime Minister's con-
gratulations on the arrival of our fleet, Mr. Cook
concluded: “May the cement of Empire set even
more firmly.”
THE YOUNG BUILDER: “ Well, it's the same
cement as was used in the building of the
biggest empire you ever knew of, Joe, ami
I can assure you there's no danger of THIS
not holding firm. So just wave away and
whoop up this short) for all you're worth!"
THE APPROACHING DELUGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The time is coming rapidly
When, weightily or vapidly,
Or heavily and stodgily,
Or breezily and dodgily,
Or cunningly and craftily,
Or stupidly and daftily,
Or fulsomely and hazily,
Or sneeringly and lazily,
Or solemnly and gloomily,
Or blatantly and boomily,
The candidate
Will rise and state
His utter incapacity
To fathom the audacity,
The dastardly indecency,
The horrible malfeasancy,
The shameless animosity
And wearisome verbosity—
The pitiful precocity—
The sill}' meretriciousness —
The laughable officiousness —
In short, the hopeless rottenness
And total God-forgottenness
Of Laborites !. ...
C else he skites
With beautiful sincerity
About the strange temerity—
The guileful deceptivitv—-
The lack of receptivity—
The ignorant ferocity—
The infantile pomposity—
The venomous obliquity—
The craving for iniquity—
The passion for combativeness—
The incommunicativeness
Of Liberals
And all their pals !. ...
And both, unhesitatingly,
Continue, unabatingly,
To drown each other verbally
In floods of weird hyperbole!
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.


THE MAGNIFICENT
“VICTOR” (UPRIGHT GRAND).
An instrument you will be proud to possess
THE DELIGHTFUL
Victor Piano.
Good intentions and good materials alone, will not make a perfect
piano. Unless highly-skilled workmen of experience and ability
are employed, the best results are impossible. When you pur-
chase one of our Victor Pianos, vou obtain an honest instrument
7 j
that WILL give you perfect satisfaction.
The care and thoroughness with which the VICTOR is built, ensures the permanence of its rich tone
quality and great durability—we fully guarantee every instrument. VICTOR PIANOS are made in
four beautiful upright models. Each instrument offers extraordinary value, and our prices are bedrock.
Please visit our Show Rooms and inspedl our latest VICTOR Models.
\\ E SEEE ON EASY TERMS spread over one, two or three years, and allow the utmost honest value
on old instruments taken in part payment of new pianos—we make no charge for valuing.
SOLD FULLY GUARANTEED AND ON EASY TERMS.
(OLD PIANOS TAKEN IN PART PAYMENT.!
WRITE FOR OUR
CATALOGUES
We issue separate Cata-
logues of every known
musical instrument. Please
write us and tell us your
requirements, and we will
send you any Catalogue
post free.
We guarantee every cus-
tomer perfect satisfaction.
Sole Agents
for
VICTOR PIANOS.
The Most Reliable House
in Australia
for ITusical Goods.
Sydney
338 George St.
And at
Newcastle, Lismore
Brisbane, Toowoomba.
THE “ VICTOR” UPRIGHT GRAND (INTERIOR).
itlhn ... ***
j TKr*7%sisrrT^ij^,v
B-
iiiuinuiiuntiiu/iin fiiiiniuiiiiiii»ii,iii, 1 ! .» m,iHuuuimuijiu
tiiiiiiniiiimiiaiiiKi ;iMjpiiiiiiiiijiiiti:iniiiii iiiiinnmuiiiiiihniinnj
............ { .i.K......i.n..imumiiLij' .will |
iit 111111111H11 it 1111 • H i] uAUViyAiuituyiiyiiiif 1 ! s
," V"'“’ .. . ...
c/i
TS
Riding Trousers
(Ready to Wear).
THERE'S a word of comfort and solid wear in
Leviathan Riding Trousers- They are cut
to give room and ease from the toughest
fabrics woven.
Riding Trousers in a grey saddle twist,
made at Geelong Mills and full of good
wear 10/-
Riding Trousers in Leather Tweed, the
toughest of tough materials, extra
stayed
Khaki Riding Trousers, strongly sewn
and reinforced o/o
In ordering Trousers state "Waist,
Seat and Inside Leg Measurements.
Leviathan Mail Order Special
SUIT
TO ORDER
5216
THIS is a suit guaranteed to a buttonhole.
It must fit and please you in every
detail, or back comes your money in
full. There is no suit value in all Aus-
tralia that compares with it. Send the Coupon.
The Leviathan,
c/o Swanston and Bourke Streets,
Melb.
Please send me a Pattern Selection of
your new Spring Suitings at 52/6. This
request incurs no obligation.
Name
Address
Btn. 9/10/’l3.
CATALOGUE POST FREE.
We Pay Freight to any part of Australia.
The
LeviatHan
For Full Value In Men’s Wear, Boys’ Wear
and Ladies’ Tailor-made Costumes.
Corner of SWANSTON & BOURKE
STREETS, MELBOURNE.
•w
«PT
rsgw
tmm
«i
*se«
£
A Permanent Record of all
your outings easily secured
with a Camera from
HARRINGTONS.
A Camera Particularly Suited for all out-door use
is the
Ensign 1-Plate No. 000 « £3
51-
It is a Daylight-Loading, Small, Compact and very
efficient Camera, easy manipulated and guaranteed to
take good, clear pictures. A special feature of the
Ensign Camera is its adaptability to either Roll Films
or Plates. Similar models to the 000 are fitted with
better lenses and shutters at £4 2s. 6d. and £5.
Send for Specimen Print taken
with either the above Cameras.
We teach you how to use any
Camera purchased from us.
Vrtiigfonj lJ
386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, AUCKLAND (N.Z.),
and WELLINGTON (N.Z.).


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Laarer & Pilsener Beers
SAW
Absolutely Pure.
No Preservatives.
E. RESCH’S LIMITED , Brewer by Appoint-
ment to his Excellency the Governor-General.
Brewery and Offices : Downing Street, Redfern, Sydney
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOtCARDIE.
WORMS.
SOME STRIKING SYMPTOMS.
A child who is afflicted with worms will
often be in an indifferent state of health. It
becomes peevish and irritable, and will have
a strong tendency to pick the nose, and there
will be severe itching of the
lower bowel. Grinding the teeth
and suddenly starting up in the
sleep will also be noticed. The
bowels are irregular, sometimes
constipated, and at other times
relaxed, with bloody discharges
as in dysentery, and not infre-
quently the discharges will be in
flakes and shreds, which might
be taken for partly-digested mod.
The best proof of Worms is
Worms, and if their presence is
suspected, immediate steps shomf
be taken to positively establish the fact, an
once established. Comstock’s Dead phot
Worm Pellets should be administered, ac-
cording to directions. Worms require
specific medicine, and there is no remedj
effective as these Pellets. They lull
Worms, destroy their eggs, and dislodge tnen
Comstock’s “Dead Shot" Worm Pellets
are a purely vegetable preparation tor
eradication of Worms in children and adum.
For sale by all chemists and storekeeper,
price 2s. 9d. per packet, or will be sent P _
paid at the same price by The W. •
stock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Church am.
Sydney.*
“We Will Make Good Any Defect in Quality of
flaterial or in Workmanship Free of Charge.
That is the guarantee we give with
PIONEER Leather Belting
We exercise the greatest care in the selection of the most suitable raw materia ,
and in its subsequent treatment. ,
Our Trade Mark does not go on until we are satisfied that the Belting g °j ts
as it can possibly be made. Pioneer Belting is noted for its gripping p >
durability and efficiency under all conditions.
Prices and full particulars gladly supplied on application.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.,
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The A.J.C. Spring Meeting commenced
under absolutely summer conditions, but the homing
pleasure and profit-seekers were overtaken by rain
after they had lost their money and left the course.
Randwick has ceased to be large enough, and the
60-odd thousand people who poured into the grounds
on Saturday were uncomfortably crowded. In the
Hurdles the eight to one Wimmera won easily enough,
while the popular choice, Loch Maben, which had
been backed down to fours, was not even placed. In
the Trial Stakes the winner, Challenge Crosse, was
fifth in the market, going out at 10’s. As the prad
is the property of the same “J. Baron,” who had
incurred popular displeasure by scratching Duke
Foote for the Metrop., and thereby wrecking many
doubles and innumerable straight-out bets without
giving backers a run for their money, the public
ignored the animal. The populace loaded its coin on
the brown colt Marculfus, the three-year-old son of
Positano by Diploma, and the best that all the
Twelve Tribes (including Simeon, who left early)
would lay was five to two against. All the same,
the Twelve were mighty lucky, for had Marculfus not
been blocked there is little doubt he would have
beaten the unpopular winner. The real excitement
of the day commenced with the Derby. Seven
starters grappled for the coin, and the public howled
for Beragoon, the son of Multiform from Wigelmar,
the property of J. E. O’Brien. Isaac McHagen in-
sisted on the public laying the odds, which it did,
six to four. Simon ’F’risco made the pace from the
jump, with Beragoon lying close on the weather bow.
Soltano, the much fancied Maorilander, ran very
disappointingly, as did also Beau Soult, from the
same ricketty realm. Beragoon and the fast gallop-
ing Radnor swept magnificently to the front, and
led the way down the straight amid the yells of disap-
pointed thousands. But Radnor was all out, and
Beragoon had a few ounces in reserve, and a terrific
struggle took place. Inch by inch Beragoon cut
down the neck-lead till it was only a nose, and right
on the judges’ box he wiped that out and put his
own nose in front. It was a most sensational finish,
in which the money of the people was literally
snatched from the satchels of Donald O’Cohen. The
field of 38 was a record for the Epsom and took a
bit of handling at the start. Twice the barrier
broke, but at the third attempt a good start was
secured. Gigandra was easily favorite, and the pen-
cillers laid the magnificent odds of seven to one
against him. Against the rank outsider Aleconner
almost any odds were going, but about 25’s was a
fair average. Gigandra had bad luck in the start,
while the winner, Aleconner, which was splendidly
ridden, was lucky to get away with the first bunch.
Posinatus led the leaders into the straight, with
Tofua, Aleconner and Valido. Then Bracken laid
the whip on hard, and although Gigandra came with
a splendid rush, the outsider danced in front, win-
ning by half a length from the favorite, with Aurifer
third. ' Gigandra had too much leeway to make up
owing to the bad start, which undoubtedly lost him
the race, for the winner was done to a turn when
passing the post. But, all the same, Bracken de-
served to win for the way he handled his mount. The
time, Imin. 40isec., is exactly the same as in which
Hartfell, with "7st. 121 b. up, last year won from
Gigandra, with Bst. 101 b. This year Gigandra carried
9st. 51b., to the winner’s 7st. 111 b. The record is
lmin. put up by Silver Hampton in 1910.
The result was a terrific smack for the punters. The
people who tried to redeem their fortune by backing
Duke Foote for the Soring Stakes had to buy their
money at 3 to 1 “on.” The 20 to 1 Danaus practi-
cally led the field into the straight, with Emperador
close up. It was not till half a furlong from home
that Duke Foote made his run, and then he won
easilv with a length to spare from Danaus, with the
fading Emperador, two lengths away, third. The
win was the signal for the most terrific demonstra-
tion ever seen at Randwick, Men howled and women
hooted and screamed derision at owner Brown when
he patted his horse on the neck, and the coal baron
was not visibly shaken by the unpleasant reminder
of his unpopularity. The day ended with the Ken-
sington Handicap, won by the rank outsider Bavard,
against whom anything from 20’s to 30’s were offered
in vain.
“The Moke”: In Monday’s Metropolitan
miles) Cagou, with 7st. 111 b. up, made hacks,
more or less, of 32 opponents, romping home with
five lengths (official verdict) to spare from Alured,
with 7st. 121 b. on his back, who had Aurifer, with
Bst. 31b., at his stern plume. In the issue of
10/7/’l3 this scribe named Cagou and Alured as
Metrop. probables, and last week selected Cagou to
be first home, with Ladies’ Man as a saver Ladies’
Man dropped out before the end of the week, but
from 14’s to 20’s were obtainable against Cagou
until the dav of the race, when he suddenly short-
ened to 12’s and 10’s. Danaus was favorite at 7 to
1 against. In Saturday’s Spring Stakes 11 h miles),
w.f.a., Danaus was indulged with the lead till Duke
Foote, temporarily shut in, got an opening on the
rails. Then —farewell, Danaus. But the pronhets
babbled about Danaus’s brilliant run, and, forgetting
their occasional repetition of the truism that weight-
for-age form is a poor guide to handicaps, they
tipped Danaus in chorus qn Sunday and Monday
morning to win the Metrop. He finished somewhere
back of the first 12. Presently we shall have, once
more, the winners of the Caulfield Stakes, nine
furlongs, w.f.a., and of the Melbourne Stakes, li
miles, w.f.a., boosted respectively as good goods
for the Caulfield Cup, a 11-mile handicap, and for
the Melbourne Cup, a two-mile handicap; though
the “book” proves such boosting to be rank follv.
Penalties will throw Cagou out of the Cups, but he
has done very well, having- run second, as a three-
vear-old, in 'last Svdnev Cup, two miles, and got
'into the Metrop. with 7st. 111 b. Second and third
in the Metrop. alwavs require noting for Mel-
bourne. The present 1| miles Metron. was estab-
lished in 1892. In 1894 Paris ran third and won
the Caulfield Cup. In 1899 Dewey was third in the
A.J.C. event and first in the Caulfield Cup. Posei-
don ran second to Solution in the 1906 Metrop.
and won both Cups. In 1907 Apologue was second
in the Metron., second in the Caulfield Cup and
first in the Melbourne tankard. In 1908, Maranui
was Metrop. third and Caulfield Cup first. Ditto
Flavinius in 1910. Lady Medallist, in 1911, was
Metron. second, Caulfield Cup first. Last year saw
the Metrop. second, Piastre, win the Melbourne
Cup Therefore whv this thusness? Alured won
the last A.J.C. Summer Cup (1 mile 5 furlongs; a
furlong more than the Metrop. and Caulfield Cun),
and is lenientlv treated this soring. He has for the
Caulfield Cup 7st. 111 b., and the Melb. Cup 7st. 121 b.
Aurifer, winner at If in Adelaide in w’th
Bst 121 b.. has Bst. lib. in the Caulfield and Bst. 61b.
in the Melbourne Cun (a large compliment to his
newlv-develoued staving powers). Soltano, whose
tongue is said to have got twisted in his throat, and
whose rider is said to have lost both whin and
stirrup, in the A.J C. Derby, found the Clibborn
Stakes to his liking, and beat Radnor comfortably
over the nine furlongs. Radnor probably prefers a
longer journey. Andelosia, all right on his pins, was
a good third, though the trip was short for him,
too. One Sydney daily announced that “Soltano is
now being favorably talked about for the V.R.C.
Derby.” The correct' name for this fixture is the
“Victoria Derby,” and, according to Miller's
Sporting Guide, Soltano was not nominated for it.
“Hermes”: Will you please whisper in
the ear of the A.J.C. that the honor and reputation
of the club is intimately associated with what hap-
pens when its record crowds are leaving the course.
Randwick course has ceased to be large enough to
accommodate the vast masses of mixed humanity and
wild beast that frequent race meetings. Its approaches
on the tram side, the side from which the people
come—and We are The People—are simply damnable.
If the A.J.C. is wise it will come to an immediate
arrangement with Reg Baker for the services of all
his pugs to maintain order on the tram approaches.
On Saturday a crowd of gnomes or gargoyles, mas-
querading as human beings, hustled and jostled and
then fought. Women fainted, and were trodden and
spat upon before they could be dragged up and
rescued. It is contended that if the exit was made
wider people would rush the trams in such numbers
that accidents would be bound to take place. In
that case there should be built a properly enclosed
platform, to which access could be controlled by
responsible officials, who would keep the crowd limited
to the number that each batch of trams could take.
Anyhow, the present arrangement is disgraceful, and
when the crowd has nothing to collect on the last
race, as on Saturday, the rush is greater and more
evil-tempered than usual.
At the Sydney Stadium. Pal Brown turns a
somersault in appreciation of his victory.
Last Saturday’s racing at Flemington
strengthened the prevailing Melbourne impression
that E. A. Connolly’s pair—Sea Prince and Anna
Carlovna —will be a mighty strong combination for
the Caulfield Cup, let the opposition from Sydney
be what it may. Sea Prince was not saddled up
for the w.f.a. event in which Uncle Sam ran the
worst race of his life, but Anna Carlovna was backed
like a “moral” for the 10 furlongs Stand Handicap.
The Maoriland-bred mare ran away with the stake
in fast time and clipping style. The field was poor
and non-triers were plentiful, perhaps, yet the
winner’s performance was impressive. All going well
with Anna until the 18th, she will doubtless cut a
great dash in the Caulfield Cup. Her forelegs are
under suspicion, nevertheless they looked none the
worse for Saturday’s gallop when they were subse-
quently linamented and bandaged. If stable com-
panion Sea Prince, with a few pounds less to carry,
is as fast as Anna (it is practically certain that the
English horse is the better stayer) he must have a
great chance of winning both Cups. The stable
backed him for the “double” long ago. (Which is
not to say that the stable hasn’t coupled him with
Anna Carlovna.) The fact remains, all the same,
that Sea Prince has not yet done any great thing in
public. He has merely, won a couple of minor handi-
caps in rather brilliant style, quite at variance with
one or two other performances. Probablv he will be
tested in the Caulfield Stakes next Saturday (11th).
The writer will expect Sea Prince to win the w.f.a.
event if he starts, and will even expect Meritus,
another of Connolly’s boosted in-and-outers, to win
the Toorak Handicap. Concerning the Caulfield
Guineas, which used to be regarded as a Derby trial,
the writer has no fancy whatever. The Vic. 3-year-
olds are seemingly a poor lot thus early in the
season, and if the Guineas race is left at the mercy
of local talent, anything may win it. Uncle Sam’s
downfall in the October Stakes was a staggerer for
the Flemington crowd. It was not astounding that
Mountain Princess could win (carrying a stone more
than her Caulfield Cup weight), for the little black
mare has always a chance when she is well. But
it was astounding that Uncle, the consistent per-
former of yore, should run like the proverbial cow.
He got away badly, failed to make up his lost ground
as easily as was expected, and gave no indications
of the masterful run which he showed only three
weeks ago. If he wins the Caulfield Cup it will be
a reversal of form. He dropped back last under the
whip in a field of eight, whilst Mountain Princess
was winning comfortably. She holds him safe “on
paper” in the Caulfield Cup. #
Now that the V.R.C. has asserted its
right to charge Is. admission to Flemington Flat on
race-days, there is a proposal that the Footscray
Council shall charge the public for admission to the
Footscray Hill, beyond the Saltwater River, which
commands a fine view of the races. This is dedi-
cated to local park purposes, and money received for
admission would go towards beautifying the park,
even as the gate-money receipts at H enley-on-the-
Yarra (or part of them) go to beautify the Yarra
banks thereabouts. Footscray wants all the money it
can get to bring sweetness and light to its rather
smellful surroundings, and the race-day means of
raising the wind seems a fair thing. But seeing that
the Yarra bank — i.e., a portion of one bank —is re-
served as a show ground on only one day of the
vear, the people at Footscray seem entitled to the
freedom of their park on 364 days. The charge for
admission, if limited to the Melbourne Cup occasion,
would not be more of an infringement of public
rights than the Henley-day toll.
In England a crank rushes on to a race-
course and deliberately brings one of the flying
geegees to grief, but in Australia a bloke merely
walks across the track whilst a race is proceeding
and lets a horse fall over him. This happened in
Melbourne last week while the Ascot Five Hundred
was being run. The pony that fell brought two
others down, and spoilt the chances of another two.
The feature of the first round of Sydney
First-Grade Cricket which ended on Saturday last
was the outright win of Waverley over Redfern.
On the previous Saturday Waverley had dismissed
Redfern for 83, and then made 149 for the loss of
seven wickets. On Saturday the score was lifted to
230 for nine wickets, and Redfern was again
bounced for 153. So Waverley required only seven
to win, and they were secured without the loss of a
wicket. The victory was not due to any phenomenal
score, Waverley’s highest figure being 47, by
McElhone. North Sydney, having accumulated 185
the previous week, managed to sack Western Suburbs
for 155, and so won by 30 on the first innings.
Barbour and Lamrock, by hitting up 99 and 79 re-
spectively, made a gap or ravine in the defences of
Central Cumberland, which had left 257 to be wiped
out. But the rest of the University team wasted
time compiling 202, whereas only 79 were required,
with the result that University had to be content
with a first-innings victory by 123. Gordon, which
had declared with six wickets down for 304, pro-
ceeded to rush Paddington through the bone mill,
but Noble’s merry men made such a fight for it that
when darkness fell with a crash upon the scene only
nine wickets had been obliterated for 218. Balmain
strove hard for a full-point victory, but missed the ’bus
owing to the gas of day being blown out. Petersham
had been buried when the figure was 182, and Bal-
main had closed its innings for 266 for eight wickets,
and started on a wild effort to blot Petersham off
before the glim perished and the slush-lamp of the
gods gave up its job. But the glim faded more
rapidly than did Petersham, which had lost nine
wickets for 66 when the last streak of radiance
passed away and the first star hung out its shingle
in the sky. So Balmain had to be content with a
first-innings win by 84 runs. Glebe’s first-innings
victory over Middle Harbor was another sorry ex-
ample of lack of courage. With the colossal score
of 370 to his credit the Glebe captain, after running
through Middle Harbor for 112, fooled about with a
second innings and lost six wickets for 52, instead of
declaring and making a bold effort to get Middle
Harbor’s second innings wiped right off before the
sun went to bed in the western horizon and drew
up the counterpane over his ears. He had his
reward in the shape of a first-innings win by 258 —
which is quite absurd.
Owing to the crowded state of the cricket
programme the second round of Sydney’s F’irst-Grade
Competition started right away on Monday, in glori-
ous sunshine. It was a batsman’s day, and no less
than three men reached the century limit: E. L.
Waddy, of Central Cumberland, carrying his bat for
115 ; Tozer, of the University, hoarding up 119 ; and
the veteran Folkard, of Balmain, amassing 101. As
for the play, it was exciting. Gordon, which made
so ferocious a demonstration against Paddington on
Saturday, continued in the same baresark vein, and
smote Middle Harbor for 411 with the loss of nine
wickets. University also continued to exalt its tail
by bashing the Paddington bowling for 326. West-
ern Suburbs, which had previously made a poor
showing against North Sydney, flashed into brilli-
ance by smiting Redfern in the stomach of its hopes
for 370. Balmain came up against Sydney District,
and but for the smiting of Folkard (101) and Rat-
cliffe (51 n. 0.) would have been in a bad way. The
total score was oifly 278, of which the two batsmen
mentioned contributed 152 and the rest of the team
only 126. Still, it was a respectable score. Waver-
ley is already up the spout as far as the first innings
is concerned, having made only 124 against the Cen-
tral Cumberland bowling, to which the Parramatta
team replied by lifting 158 for the loss of four
wickets. North Sydney is in difficulties with Peter-
sham, having made a mere 143, to which Petersham
replied with 124 for six wickets. So Petersham is
only 19 behind and has four wickets to fall. Some
of the bowling was distinctly gbod. Dean, of Syd-
ney, arrested four Balmain wickets for 43. Strange,
of Central Cumberland, made hay of four Waverley
wickets for 34. Scott, of Petersham, walloped down
four North Sydney sticks for 40; and Andrews, of
the same club, stole or prigged five for 78.
The boxing conference called by Reginald
Baker at the Hotel Australia last week was well
attended, and representatives from South Australia
and Maoriland were present with a view to securing
a uniform code of boxing for Australasia, if not for
the Empire and the world. That there will be a
uniform code for Australia is now a certainty, and
the meeting got through a tremendous mass of work
in the limited time at Its disposal. N.S.W. Speaker
Morton opened the proceedings, but, having to attend
another meeting, left early, and his place was taken
by Mr. H. Y. Braddon. The scale of weights adopted
by the conference is that in vogue at the National
Sporting Club of London, in which the limit for a
bantam is Bst. 61b. ; for a feather, 9st. neat; a light-
weight, 9st. 91b. ; a welter, lOst. 71b.; a middle-
weight, list. 61b. ; a light-heavy (to be called in
future mid-heavy), 12st. 71b. ; and a heavy, any-
thing above 12st. 71b. Australian championships are
to be open only to boxers who have been one year in
the continent, and are lost by more than six months
absence from it. “In-fighting” is abolished, but
what constitutes “in-fighting” is to be left to the
decision of the referee, and as there is to be founded
a Referees’ Association, it was a good idea. A
motion that all Australian championships be reserved
entirely for white men and Australian aborigines
was not seconded. The referee is in all cases to be
in the ring during the scrap, and where a man’s
towel is thrown in because his seconds consider he
has been punished enough, and has no hope of win-
ning, it is to count as a knock-out on the victor’s
roll of honor. There were many other things
decided, but these were the most important, and are
all for the improvement of the sport.
Before Hughie Mehegan and “Pal” Brown
stepped into the Sydney Stadium on Saturday night
money-hungry individuals were offering to lay 10 to
one that Mehegan would knock the unfortunate
young visitor’s head over the adjacent gasometer.
They thought the frightful odds might induce the
unwary to bet, but there were not many takers. The
men who had seen Brown at his training knew it
would be no 10 to one fight, and in a little while
the price dropped to sixes. Then came the gladi-
ators, and the perfect condition of Brown was made
very apparent. But still there were few who gave
him any chance of winning. It did not seem possi-
ble that the extremely boyish-looking, fair-haired
youth could possibly knock out our Hughie; while
everybody felt certain that if the Australian landed
one on the right spot the rest would be silence. The
fighters had been weighed at 2 p.m., and there was
only fib. difference, Mehegan having that much over
Brown’s 9st. 101 b. The difference in build makes
weight-judging very precarious. Mehegan opened on
the body, and found that Brown had the usual Ameri-
can capacity for taking punishment. But the first
round was easily Mehegan’s. So was the second till,
right on time, Mehegan, leaving himself uncovered,
was astounded to receive a knock-down blow that
sent him to his haunches. He looked up at Brown
in amazement, and the flabbergasted crowd was too
dazed for a moment to roar. As Mehegan bounded
up the bell rang. Feeling he had scored an advan-
tage, Brown forced the third and plied both fists so
hard that Mehegan was smothered temporarily under
the shower of blows; but he walloped back and with
stinging body blows drove Brown off It was Brown’s
round, all the same. In the fourth Brown had a
series of narrow - escapes. His dodging and ducking
were splendid ; but it took him all he knew to avni i
Mehegan’s death-dealing swings. Still he did avoir
them, and by sheer skill. It was in the fifth th r
Brown showed that he could take as well as admini
ster punishment. By the seventh he began to look
worried, and was sticking to long-range fightimr
while Mehegan was crowding in to get to close
quarters. In the eighth, Brown seemed to be wilting
very fast. But in the ninth he used a straight left
very effectively* and managed for the most part to
keep Mehegan from getting home with his fearsome
swings. Mehegan continued to bore in, and in his
anxiety to get in and finish it disregarded Brown’s
blows. He was bashing the visitor very badly when
a wild backhander caught him under the nose and
sent him down with a crash. As he sprang UD
Brown rushed him, bashed him liberally with both
hands, and shook the Australian champion very
badly. The house held its breath and wondered was
it possible the stripling could knock Mehegan out
But he couldn’t —anyhow, he didn’t. When hostilities
resumed, Brown found that Mehegan was as aggres-
sive as ever. Still, he had acquired a wholesome
respect for his youthful opponent, and as it was a
mutual sort of feeling, both gentlemen became more
deliberate and cautious. But both handed out heavy
punishment, of which the American got the most and
went to his corner badly shaken. In the 19th he
showed the rest had done him good, and he became
as elusive as ever. Mehegan went in hot pursuit,
and though he punished Brown badly when he did
catch him, he got considerably knocked about in
the operation, In the last round Brown steadied
Mehegan with a heavy left swing on the jaw'; but
Mehegan came again and delivered at the address
some terrific body blows. He was hard at it when
the gong went, and Scott placed his hand on the
youthful head of Brown amidst tumultuous cheers.
T))e young man acknowledged the benediction with
a cheerful handspring. It was a curiously sensa-
tional fight, and, according to some of the
best authorities, a draw would have been as
good a decision as any. The trouble with Mehegan
is that he doesn’t box, but fights. And the fighter
up against the boxer has to either knock his man
out or force his seconds to throw in the towel. He
failed to do either in Brown’s case, and lost the
decision accordingly.
Monday night saw another double event at
the Sydney Stadium, when, after a vimful prelimin-
ary between the two George Newburys, one of
Balmain and the other of Waterloo, Frank Picato
came up against Sydney Stagg. In the curtain-
raiser Newbury, of Balmain, knocked the corners off
the other party, whom he had never seen till they
met in battle. It was not particularly skilful, but
it was fast, and roused considerable enthusiasm.
Then it was announced that Stagg weighed 10st.
7ilb. and Picato lOst. 751 b. Both were in excel-
lent condition; in fact, Picato never looked better
than when he entered the ring on Monday night.
Stagg soon proved that his reputation as a skilful
boxer was justified. Without fleeing into the wilder-
ness as Wells does, Stagg is, to all practical pur-
poses, just as elusive; while the way he throws his
head about in close quarters is utterly bewildering.
Picato could not hit it even when he did get to
close quarters. Stagg is ambidextrous to a marvel-
lous degree. He would meet Picato’s charges with
his left shoulder turned to the Italian, and his face
looking back over it. Then, as Picato swung free
a left backhander would sweep suddenly round, fol-
lowed by a heavy right swing or uppercut. Writer
is not quite sure that Stagg’s use of the shoulder is
legitimate, and it is a certainty that much of the
injury to Picato’s face came from concussing with
it. As a hitter Stagg is almost as fast as Jerome,
but not quite. One can get glimpses of Stagg’s wal-
lops ; but were Jerry’s arms white and his fists
covered with white gloves, his wallops would be
absolutely invisible. It soon became evident that
Picato had no hope except by some lucky punch put-
ting the elusive, dancing Englishman to sleep; and
during the whole contest Picato managed to get only
four or so possibles on to Stagg’s top-piece. Stagg
smote in two quarters only, the stomach and the
bottom of the face —between the nose and the chin.
His right uppercuts were deadly, but he was just as
ready to uppercut with his left when opportunity
came. Picato, for the most part, landed his bashes
on Stagg’s shoulders, gloves, ribs and hindquarters,
the last mentioned owing to Stagg’s fearful and
hideous ducking. The crowd roared to Picato, who
was easily favorite, to chop the back of Stagg’s neck;
but it was easier said than done, and when done it
was quite ineffective. Not till the 17th round did
Stagg do any leading. Then he became aggressive
in following up his repulses of Picato. In the 18th
round it became evident that Picato had exhausted
himself, and the steady trickle of vicious upnercuts
had worn him out. Still he bored in bravely. In
the 19th Stagg attacked, and was met with straight
lefts, but he was not to be denied and Picato went
to his corner badly rattled. The last round saw
Picato pull himself together splendidly and go for
a knock-out. Vain hope. Stagg couid have outed
him at least three times in that round, so ex-
hausted was the gallant Roman. But Stagg knew he
had the victory on points and contented himself
with dealing out heavy taps as a guarantee of what
he could deliver if he wished. When the gon"
sounded Scott placed his blessing on the head of
Stagg—the only possible verdict.


YOUR HEALTH is
What You Make It
If you neglect Exercise you neglect your
health. Because, without Exercise, your
blood circulation becomes feeble, its quality
impoverished, its nourishing qualities ban-
ished.
\\ alking is a fine exercise, but few can
find time for a daily five-mile jaunt. But
everyone can spare fifteen minutes a day.
Devote that time to my judicious HEALTH
EXERCISES, and you’ll be delighted with
the results.
My Health Exercises apply scientific prin-
ciples to ensure a vigorous blood circulation,
a thorough exercising of the vital organs, and
complete relaxation. Their benefits are
quickly apparent, because they go right to
the spot.
Here is good evidence :
“Since undertaking your Course, I feel twice
the man, and I have developed wonderfully. I
have never been more pleased with anything I
have done than since I went in fo« : your Course
of Physical Culture, and I can honestly recommend
your course to anyone seeking better health.
“E.H.W., Northampton, W.A.”
That will give you an idea how you can benefit.
There are many more such letters given in my Booklet, “Health and Strength from Self-
Cultdre/-’ One of them surely be similar to your case. Why not write for this interesting
booklet, which also gives full information of my methods, costs of tuition, etc. Kindly send three
penny stamps for postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BARER,
238 Belmont Buildings,
CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Hygienic Cigarette
and Cigar Holders!
These holders have
many distinct and unusual
features*
They are very inex-
pensive t neat in design
and last a lifetime*
No. 1
The holders are of
Solid Silver with
quill mouthpieces
that can be changed
as often as re-
quired.
The silver can be
scalded; thus you
have a new holder
when desired.
The illustrations
show the actual
size of the holders.
No. 1 Cigarette, Is.
Quills, 50 for Is.
No. 2 Cigar, Is. 6d.
Quills, 6d. per doz.
mJ
No. 2.
Postage 2d. extra.
Write for a free copy of my
illustrated Catalog, “A Book of
Good Smokes.”
I have the sole agency of Aus-
tralia for these holders. Special
quotations to the trade.
A. M. SOLOMON,
CIGAR EXPERT,
173 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
BEST RESULTS
ASSURED ON
‘SHELL’
BENZINE.
•I
♦
The British Imperial Oil Co. Ltd.
k:
ENGLISH-
MADE
Concertinas
By LACHENAL 8 CO., LONDON.
No. 1.
English Concertina,
mahogany tops, .20 bone
keys, 5-fold bellows, yellow
metal reeds; complete in
wooden box, with lock and
key, 45/-, post free.
No. 2.
English Concertina,
mahogany tops, 20 bone
keys, 5-fold bellows, steel
reeds; complete in wooden
box, with lock and key,
55/-, post free.
No. 3.
English Concertina,
rosewood tops, 5-fold bel-
lows, 20 bone keys, newly-
improved action steel reeds.
In mahogany case, with lock
and key, £4/10/-, post free.
Postage Paid to Any Address
in the Commonwealth.
A. P. SYKES,
272 Little Q>llins-strect,
MELBOURNE.
TWO OOO** FKOM tOU’S *oo* ARCAOt
WHAT IS
IP
ISb
12^
tTiil
&
w
TBU
Golcryst is made from Epsom Salts,
Senna, Sarsaparilla, Dandelion, Liq-
uorice and Ginger. That seems a
good combination of useful medi-
cines for Constipation, Rheumatism,
Impure Blood, Pimples, Boils,
Stomach and Liver Troubles.
So popular has this remedy become in
Australia that Golcryst may be regarded
as the National Aperient.
Packets 3d., 6d. & I|-
If you cannot obtain locally, write to
the Proprietors,
Rocke, Tompsitt 8 Co.,
MELBOURNE,
FOR A FREE SAMPLE PACKET. [1
The Australian
Magazine.
THE LONE HANP
The National
rionthly, 6d.
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
L. & F. CO., LIMITED.
Secure Highest Market Rates
for all consignments of Wool,
Wheat, Hides, Skins and Tallow
entrusted to them and render
returns promptly.
I
I
I BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY]
YOU LIKE YOUR SHOES
to be fashionable —perhaps even to the ex-
treme ; whether that or in modest designs,
RIGNEY SHOES
are always in good taste, and will please
you thoroughly, and give you lasting satis-
faction.
The boot shown is a Patent Calf Oxford
Shoe, latest perforations. A high-grade
Made-to-Order Style.
Price 2716
Also in Tan and Black Velour Calf,
251- and 27 6
Postage 9d. extra.
Write for a copy of our Catalog.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.,
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
Burgoyne, aged 88, went right through the
all-night sitting of the S.A. Assembly when
the Government’s gerrymandering scheme
was being forced along, and voted in all
the divisions. When someone on the Labor
side expressed regret that he should be kept
out of his bed, he replied, “Oh, don’t mind
me; I am it.” He was whirled
home in a motor at 5 a.m., and was back in
his place at two o’clock the same afternoon.
Burgoyne was first elected to Parliament at
the age of 58, and he has sat continuously
for 30 years for the one district. A while
ago he broke one of his legs, wherefore now
when he speaks (which he does pretty
often) he has to prop himself up on his
crutches. But his voice is as strong and
resonant as it was 30 years ago, and he
makes just as good speeches.
“Kiwi” figures it thus: —
Since Tory Premier Massey came to power in
Maoriland he has, to the joy of his enemies, been
killing his political goose. He has made unsatis-
factory appointments, gained a complete alienation
of the Labor vote which helped him materially in the
general election against Ward ; and the people’s in-
terest in the State lands has been recklessly bartered
to appease a few speculators on terms- that have
never had -the support even of Maoriland’s most
Tory organs. The Opposition is le.tting Plain Bill
heap up a few more errors (and the rate at which
he can do the trick is truly wonderful) before tilt-
ing an avalanche at him. When Ward returns to
the Treasury benches again, as no doubt he will, all
he will need to do is to curb the hair-trigger of his
financial boomerang, surround himself with a good
team (excluding Dr. Findlay, whose political un-
popularity greatly helped the downfall last time) and
his seat is permanent or thereabouts. Nothing is
really permanent but Debt.
m
ms.
m
J
&
v'
o*s
;C^
v 5
V>
gp
\\V
V*
w*
tVO
\N
V
<V* C
V>*
\- C
W&
&
0*
B»*
VP
s;j*r.
PEL'
. -.
m
■ -.■-
JHC
>■>
■■inf 1 *
=-3®
NOTICE TO MOTORISTS!
V GREAT REDUCTION
I INI THE PRICE OE
DUNLOP
TYRES-
Whilst the present high standard
of these Reliable and Durable
\ Tyres will be fully maintained,
the retail price has been reduced
to such a figure that Motorists
can now obtain the Best Tyre
made, at a lower price than any
other Tyre on the Market. Here’s
your opportunity to procure Tyres
for the coming season.
SEND AT ONCE FOR NEW PRICE LIST.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Maftaanu. Sjdn.7, Ad.Uida. Par-fc, Briabaoa, W«llin,U» ud ChriatcbyrdL


■The Youngsters
enjoy mowing with
BANKS’
“SHEFFIELD” MOWER
Look here, this “Sheffield” is a splendid
Mower, costing only 24/-. Made of line
material, superbly finished, and possessing
the advantages of dearer makes without the
price. We tell you, you needn’t pay more
to get mower satisfaction. Runs like a bike,
needs the least attention. A clean short
cutter.
Other Styles from
15/- to 40 -
y
A
Sv>*
■
m
H
The House
for Mow.rs
and
Windmills.
JOHN DANKS & SON
PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
Sydney and Melbourne.
324 Pitt
St., near
Liverpool
St., Sydney.
Clearing
Made
Easy.
Give up clearing
with the axe, dyna-
mite, etc. Use
the “B U N Y I P”
FOREST DEVIL.
No hard work. It
I,
VF
K
BUNYIP
SSI
FORE
uproots trees, stumps, shifts giant boulders, etc. Your boy can work it.
Easy to shift about. Shows quick results. Pays for itself after few
acres have been cleared. Have full details. Catalogue on request.
Investigate also ANVIB BRAND PIjOUGH SHARES & SPEEDIE’S
AUTOMATIC RABBIT TRAP. Send to-day.
John Cooper Sons,
“ FOR ALL FARMING
IRONMONGERY,”
287-89 Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
o&sStM
%Sk
i**-'*~
m
«?>
A
m
fe
&
Jr
m
■tjv
Think of the Best Gift
—the most useful and the most used—the
Onoto Pen.
The present which will delight the receiver and be
carried as a constant reminder of the donor. The
swift, smooth way in which it glides over the paper
nuti.es writing a pleasure. It tills itself in a flash
and cannot Irak—this perfect pen. Give an
Onoto
Self-Filling * •
Safe!; Fountain
Pen
The Onoto can be obtained at all Stationers, Jewel-
lers, and Stores, price 12/-, and in a variety of
more elaborate styles for presentation purposes.
Booklet free from THOS I)E I.A RUE & CO , Ltd.,
Bunhill Row, London, E.C., or the Australasian
Representatives Norman Baker and i,onghurst, 50
York Street, Sydney.
IMPORTANT—For those who require
a larger pen with a very flexible nib, a
special model — the new “ G has been
put on the ma ket Try this new
“G” at your stationer’s.
FOR EASY, COMFORTABLE SHAVING
GET THE FAMOUS
“PLUM” RAZOR.
This is the razor that has brought joy to thousands of men.
It starts them off right every morning by giving them a quick, clean
shave, without the slightest discomfort.
Why don’t you get a “PLUM” ? We will keep it in perfect order
for two years, free of charge.
PRICE 10/6, Post Free.
The C. & A. Moustache Trainer
shapes the moustache. Worn
at night; 2/6, 3/6, 6/6 each
post free.
We Crind and Set Razors, 1/- each.
SAFETY RAZORS FROM 6/6.
Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-. This line
makes a very handsome present.
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6.
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Stick good Shaving Soap, 1/-
The Plum Strop Dressing, 1/- Tube.
Gentlemen who shave themselves
should not be without it.
All the Above Post Free.
CRAIG &. AITH.EN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED 30 YEARS.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SGRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
A SATISFIED USER OF ECKERSLEY’S
AERATED WATER MACHINES
f
WRITES :
Mumbil, 18th August, 1918.
RAILWAY HOTEL.
J. Forrest,
Prop.
“/ am more than satisfied with my Aerated
Water Machine , purchased from you some
time ago. and the Waters which it produces
are excellent. The cost of production is only
a trifle.
“Yours faithfully,
“(Sgd.) JACK FORREST.”
No Hotelkeeper or Vendor of Aerated
Beverages can afford to be without an
Eckersley Aerated Water Machine or
Soda Fountain. We are the only manu-
facturers of these superb Machines, an(
in purchasing from us, middlemen s
profits are eliminated.
ECKERSLEY’S,
Canada Building, 822 George Street, SYDNEY.
Clarendon Street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
LRU
2/6 Jars, obtainable everywhere
Nurses Recommend
Solomon
Solution
Experience has taught them its ‘^ e
efficacy in the treatment of Kheumat
Rheumatic Gout, Sciatica, Neuralgia, sp a
Swellings, Wounds, Cuts, Boils, it?
many other common ailments. Will YOU try
u/Nef Ttr**f* %/- from
SOLOMON COX & SON
Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Gentility Gone Mad.
London Daily Mail published a special
article last month by its “medical corre-
spondent” on Professor Ehrlich, who was
described as
the famous German pathologist and inventor of
Salvarsan, or “606,” the great specific which is
destined to play a foremost part in man’s triumph
over disease.
The effort was headed mysteriously “The
Hidden Plague.” The next day the Mail
printed in its correspondence columns a
number of letters under the general heading
“The Hidden Disease.” The following—
which was signed (Rev.) Richard Free —
is a typical extract from one of them :
A bright, brave young soul, in a worn and weak
and corrupt body, is known to me in this parish
as a tragic illustration of the “sins of the fathers.”
She has been harried from pillar to post in the
search for an impossible cure, she has lost the means
of earning her livelihood, she has had to consort
with the scum of the gutter, she has frequently
known what it is to want a crust of bread, she has
been refused treatment by doctor after doctor, she
has been forbidden at last all association with her
fellows.
From such evidence as the above the
sophisticated reader is enabled to deduce
that the allegedly “hidden” complaint is
syphilis. However, in accordance with an
imbecile convention that could hardly exist
outside an Anglo-Saxon community, this
most vital fact is carefully concealed by the
press—or at any rate by most of it—from
the reader who does not happen to be sophis-
ticated —which is to say, from the very
type of reader who needs the light most.
The “secret malady,” the “concealed afflic-
tion,” and half a dozen other baffling syno-
nyms have always been used, here
and..,in England, to describe this disease.
As a matter of fact, such terms are gro-
tesque misnomers. There are few
serious diseases which are less “hidden,”
and so forth, than syphilis. Hideous skin
eruptions, iind clamantly obvious afflictions
of the limbs, the nerves and the brain mani-
fest its presence to those with eyes
to see and intelligence to understand. And
it is a mercy to the human race that it is
so. Disease, like so many other noisome
things, does its deadliest work in the
dark. Ignorance is its strongest ally.
Syphilis, the horror which the local papers
mostly talk of as the “Red Plague,” so that
the virgin minds of their readers
may not he outraged, would to-day
be as dead as the other variety of
plague if it had been subjected to the same
full and frank public discussion. When
one thinks of the lives that might thereby
have been saved from misery and suffering ;
of the children who might have come int
the world untainted; and of the innocent
folks who might have been protected from
unspeakable shame and agonv, OIH , ■"
tempted to arise and curse that distorted
variety of respectability which reckons that
it is better to keep a problematically virgin
mind in ignorance, for a little' w yfilo
longer, than to show thousands how thev
may avoid a fate which is liable litcrallv
to be worse than death. Syphilis, that
hideous disease which has lialf-fillod the
world's lunatic asylums, which is respon-
sible, directly or indirectly, for 50 per cent
of our nervous complaints, and which, in
some of its manifestations, is considerably
m-re horrible than leprosy, can never be
grappled with till the ordinary members of
the public are told all about it. Plain talk
on such a subject can no more harm any-
one’s morals than plain speech concerning
drains. On the contrary, there are not
many things more calculated to discourage
a potential Casanova or Catherine 0 f
Kussia than a clear, comprehensive dis-
course on the subject of this disease and
the effect of it on its victims. Papers like
the Daily Mail are always, conducting
vehement campaigns—battles against In-
surance Acts and other forms of Socialistic
legislation, and agitations in aid of aviation
or a stronger navy or what not. Consider
the splendid fame that awaits the first great
newspaper proprietor with sufficient nerve
and imagination to start a campaign against
syphilis. He would begin by telling the
world just what it was, and how many
people were chronically suffering from it, or
from the after-effects of it. Doctors, clergy-
men and others would be encouraged to
supply what the Rev. Richard Free, above
mentioned, calls “tragic illustrations.” It
would he brought home to the community,
in a little while, that it was cherishing a
horror more disgusting in its essentials
than small-pox. more devastating to life
year by year than the average war. The
Government would be driven to action.
Compulsory notification of all cases of
syphilis, irrespective of the patient’s rank
or wealth, would come to be regarded as
just as much a matter of sense and justice
as compulsory notification of small-pox or
plague or diphtheria. In course of time the
disease would either vanish altogether, or,
at the least, be beaten down to the neighbor-
hood of vanishing point. By the simple
process of throwing open the columns
of his journal to a discussion, which
after the first week would neither
astonish nor shock any healthy-minded
person, the mythical newspaper owner
under discussion would take his place
as one of the greatest alleviators of human
woe and suffering in the world’s history. It
is a dreadful and pathetic thing to reflect
that nothing but a distorted aspiration
after the Genteel in life prevents this
triumph from being achieved.


The Points of Merit
of EDISON Lamps
pDISON LAMPS are the
most extensively used
lamps in the world, exceeding
millions the sale of any
other make of lamp. Write
for Price List and Catalogue
No. 333.
Vitrite glass button forming
moisture proof cap.
Acfitif ately sized, machine made
"stem” of "mount" for fila-
ment. Insures af:cafate center-
ing of filament in bulb aifid pro-
vides a strong support.
Filament “clamps" or joints of
specially prepared carbon
ceffifefft. Hold filament ends se-
curely and " hot clamps "
and broken cofibe'etions.
Strong, uniform high grade fila-
ment free from spots or disco-
lorations. Note the oval form of
filament a symmetrical shape,
which conforms to the lines of
the bulb.
First class trjtfitiam uniformly
effected by tbfe dbeflflealmethod
of exhaust. ftedhifCSS blacken-
ing—maintains candle
ensures reliability.
«L
\6l
Z 2.0
L-J
' ' ■
eoiso^
Uniform and strong cap —sym-
metrically centred and firmly
fitted on bulb. Secured with
special waterproof cement, which
prevents loose caps.
Platinum wiressecurely welded
to “leading-in ” wires with weld
knot clamped into the glass, re-
lieving the platinum from any
strain.
Nickelled iron anchors support-
ing filament, preventing droop-
ing and checking vibration. Note,
anchors are in an unobtrusive
position where they do not cast
shadows.
Uniform bulb blown in moulds
and gauged to exact and uniform
size, carefully selected free from
flaws and blemishes.
Small, strong, securely made
tip—reduces tip breakage which
destroys many lamps.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC C 2:
217 Clarence Street, Sydney. Corner Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne.
AGENTS
ADELAlDE.—Unbehaun & JohnstblH?. Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
BRlSBANE.—Engineering Supply Co. of Aunt#, Ltd., George Street.
PERTH, W.A.—Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., 20 Queen Street. _ ... .
NEW ZEALAND.—National Electrical & Engineering Co., Ltd., Auckland, Dunedin & Wellington.
Ringing for Morels
-vafc
k’W\
r
V
A
Bird’s
Custard
stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess*
Has stood the test of time
Over 70 years’ success. ,
PILE PILLS.
PERMANENT CURE.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS.
Non-aperient. A sure and speedy cure for all cases
of Internal and External Piles.
Have Cured Thousands of Cases, some after suffering
over 40 years.
Made and sold by ANDREW MURPHY, WOY
WOt (N.S.W.), Sole Proprietor.
PRICfe 3/» Per BOX, or 8 BOXES £l,
Post Pree<
On Sale at All Dtuggists dti d Chemists throughout
the States.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting Lyndon
should read the British Austra-
lasian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the offices, 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
THE Australian Magazine—THE LONE
HAND. The National -Monthly. Price. 6d
AUSTRALIAN METAL COMPANY LIMITED
SYDNEY
40-2 Clarence Street.
MELBOURNE
172-6 William Street,
ADELAIDE
129 Currie Street.
• • •
.. . We are SOLE AGENTS for
Brown, Boveri Co. Ltd.
M
»Wm
►
.mm**'-
...
of 21,000 k.v. a.
LEADING SPECIALITIES
Live Steam, Mixed Pressure and Exhaust Steam Turbines.
Turbo-Dynamos and Turbo-Alternators, in the largest sizes
and for any pressure.
Single and Polyphase Transformers, and Switchgear for any
output, and for pressures up to 60,000 volts.
Hydro-Electric Generators, Long Distance Power Transmission
and Railway work.
Turbo-Gas Blowers and Exhausters.
Turbo-Compressors for heavy duty.
Pump Motors (horizontal and vertical) for Mining Work, Elec-
trical Haulage and Winding Plant, etc.
Special Motors for driving Textile Machinery, Paper-making
Machinery, Agricultural Plant, etc.
Regulating Transformers, Induction Regulators and Automatic
Pressure Regulators.
Phase Compensators and Speed Regulating Sets for large
induction motors.
Electric Train Lighting Equipments.
Australian Representatives
HAES & EGGERS LTD-,
163 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.


ABBEY
SHOES
Because of their fine appear-
ance, smart styles and perfect
fit, the Abbey Shoes are much
worn by well-dressed gentle-
men, and, likewise, much ad-
mired.
The boot we illustrate is a Tan
Willow Calf Bal., 22/6, 25/-
and 27/6.
Also in Box Calf, 21/-, 25/-.
In Glace Kid, 22/6, 25/-, and
27/6.
In half-sizes and quarter-fit-
tings.
Postage extra.
Write for a Catalog.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
■l*
Be Ever Youthful
The greatest
enemy to a
youthful
appearance
is
Grey Hair.
This can be
overcome by
using
MARIE Permanent
HAIR S TAIN
( Registered)
The latest and best scientific discovery for
restoring r re y or faded hair to its natural
color. Guaranteed not to wash, wear or
rub off. Is not affected by sea air or surf-
ing ; proof against humid or damp atmos*
pheres. Is not greasy; never varies in
shade or goes patchy; is non-injurious; leaves hair soft,
silky and brilliant; aids growth, and is permanent.
PRICE 10 f 6 ; Postage 6d. extra. Sold in four shades:
Light Brown, Medium Brown, Dark Brown and Black.
Free Test given to all who call at my Salon. Money
returned if hair not permanently stained.
Prepared and Sold only by
MARIE VAN BRAKKEL, Ladies’ Hair Specials
Only Address: 46 CASTLEREACH STREET, SYDNEY
Register all Letters.
(Opposite Hotel Australia).
THE EDISON
Storage Battery
is different
There is no lead or acid in its con-
struction. It is iron and nickel in
caustic potash. Its weight, per capa-
city, is just about half that of the
ordinary lead battery. There is no
depreciation as in the lead battery.
On the contrary, after the first 25 or
30 discharges there is an actual in-
crease of 25 to 30 per cent, in capacity.
We invite your inquiries. State pur-
pose for which you need Storage Bat-
teries, and we will promptly supply
all particulars.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.,
Dept. 8., 364-372 KENT STREET. SYDNEY.
*
m
rii
V V
vvy
Lyv v'
S 3
vvy
v
vy
,jv'v y
v v' l
OTvVv
A TOP-NOTCH^HAND
mm
TOP-NOTCH
OF SCOTCH
"Jifyheonj&lV
When dispensing hospitality, rely on “King George IV.”
Friends will come in “threes” and “fours” and make
“a full house,” because it is a “straight” beverage in
every sense, and although there’s “not a headache
in a gallon,” its genial stimulus may sometimes
bring a “royal flush.”
George IV” is “top notch” in all the
essentials of a high grade whisky—
fine bouquet rounded
mellowness and
perfect purity.
THE ACCORDEON for Country Residents.
m
We don’t believe any Accordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated
STAR Trombone Accordeon.
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners ; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price £l,
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price. £1 7s. 6(1.
Postage to any address in Australia, 2s. 6d. extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/ 6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical
Instruments, Watches, Jewellery, etc.,
210 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE.
There is Always
with a
PIEPER BAYARD Semi-Automatic Rifle.
TO BE HAD OF ALL
GUN DEALERS.
Fitted with Safety Catch.
Write to our Representative, W. A. COX, Box 873, G.P.O. Sydney,
for Booklet, post free. ■>?
*aOA AlJjy
IV3OI
Waternjan’s
(Ideal)
FouxitSiiiPen
A great Help, a great
Convenience and a great
Economy. Lasts a life-
time ; iridium-tipped gold
nibs to suit all
hands ; every Pen
Guaranteed.
In 4 types —
Regular and Self-Filling, 12/6 and upwards ;
Safety and Pump-Filling, IS/ and upwards.
Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, LTD,
Koh-i-noor House, London, F.ngland.
Australia. —350, fleorge Street. Sydney.
IDEAL
*ft» Y 0« f
In the Senate, the other afternoon, Arthur
Rae pinned the wobblesome Government
down to one good thing—to commence the
survey of the straight national life-line from
Oodnadatta to Pine Creek this year. The
one fly in the butter was that the Govern-
ment wouldn’t or couldn’t say how much
it would spend on the job.
Iceberg Irvine is supporting Prime Min-
ister Cook’s attempt to abolish the clause in
Australia’s Electoral Act which requires
writers to sign political matter during elec-
tion time. In 1903, the same Iceberg s
measure in the matter of the Victorian rail-
way strike contained this clause :
Every person who prints, publishes, distributes any
notice which appears to have as its object the encour-
agement, maintenance, furtherance, extension or con-
tinuance of the strike, or the collecting, receiving,
keeping or distributing of any fund or moneys for
any such object, or containing any insulting or abu-
sive language with respect to persons continuing in
or accepting employment in the railway service shall
be guilty of an offence against this Act. Any such
notice or notification may without further authority
than this Act, be seized and destroyed by any mem-
ber of the police force, or by any person whomso-
ever.
A few days ago an election to the House
of Rich Landlords took place at South
Yarra (Vic.). Two candidates stood —ex-
Minister Edgar and Merritt. Edgar fav-
ored liberalising the franchise for the Leg.
Council, by making all ratepayers eligible
to vote. At present, a ratepayer, to have
a vote, must own or live on property worth
£2O per annum. The Argus said that, to
vote for a reduction of the franchise, was
to present the seat to Radicalism; and as
Radicalism is the Devil, Edgar lost the seat
by 35 votes. The House of Rich Landlords
is Toryism’s last refuge in Victoria; hence
no risks must be taken with it. Even
Property must not be trusted to vote for
it- —only Property in large lumps.
Old Dick Richardson, who did his last
political dash as Vic. Minister for Railways
just 20 years ago, has gone to join his long-
departed colleagues. Another year on earth
would have made him a nonogenarian. Dick
was elected an M.L.A. in 1863, and he must
have been classed as a Liberal when he got
the billet of Minister of Lands in the third
Graham Berry Ministry. But seeing that it
was James Patterson who gave him the
Railways portfolio old man Richardson
must have become a good deal like a hard
shell Tory ere he' got the push into private
life. He disappeared in the rout of the
Patterson party, and was heard of no more
in Melbourne.
An interesting old lady, Mrs. Mary Glover
Robinson, of Forest Lodge, Sydney, joined
the innumerable caravan last week, in her
78th year. Her father, Wally Tait, was
one of Dr. Lang’s Scottish immigrants,
coming in the ship Portland, which left
Plymouth on the day William IV. died.
They brought the news to Sydney, and. on
arrival at King’s Wharf, a flag was. hoisted
there to announce the fact. Mr. Tait’s first
job was as foreman on the building of Gov-
ernment House. Later he was foreman of
works when a contract was let for building
the railway from Sydney to Parramatta;
and Mrs. Robinson, then 19, was present
at the ceremony of turning the first sod.
D’Arcy Wentworth Miles, killed in a
Sydney tram collision the other day, was a
descendant of John Roxburgh Miles, who,
60 years ago, kept a school in one of the
fine old mansions in Kent-street, at the rear
of what was then the burial-ground, and is
now the Town Hall. D’Arcy Wentworth
owned a lot of land in this neighborhood,
, and a good deal of it, let under lease, is stiii
in the family. While running the school
Miles lived on Darlinghurst-road, with
Thomas Barker (who built Roslyn Hall)
on one side, and Stuart Alexander Donald-
son and his windmill on the other. This
Donaldson, who was the first Premier of
N.S.W., and lasted 80 days, was the father
of the present Archbishop of Brisbane.
Frances Hodgkins, the Maorilander who
has recently been offering Australasians a
chance to collect some of the samnles of the
art she cultivates (mostly in Paris) with
a skilful brush, has had two of lier pictures
(“The Hill Top” and “A Dutch Canal”)
purchased in her native islands for the
National Gallery. Miss Hodgkins will take
the trail back for Europe next month, trav-
elling much lighter than on the inward
journey, unless she carries the proceeds of
her shows in metal.
“Hamer” groans :
The Sydney City Council is threatening to destroy,
or at the very least to speak severely to those pro-
perty-owners who fail to have their premises pro-
perly numbered. Sydney is a perfect whale for
muddlement in this connection. Many houses aren’t
numbered at all, and of those that are a mighty lot
are numbered wrongly, whilst amongst the others
are any amount that would be wrongly numbered if
a sane system of numbering were adopted. Take
even Macquarie-street. The inquirer learns that
there is a Macquarie-street and a Macquarie-street
South; also, a Macquarie-place and a Macquarie-
lane—not to mention Mrs. Macquarie’s Chair, Point
Macquarie and the Macquarie Restaurant.
When the searcher addresses himself to the num-
bers of any given street his path is strewn with be-
wilderment and punctuated with curses and lost
time. Sometimes the figures start with No 11 and
proceed with merely minor discrepancies until No.
57 is reached. Then there is a gap until probably
67, where five houses have been mislaid. And just
to level things up, so to speak, N<f>. puts in an
appearance, the half house being about as substan-
tial' as any others. After that there are some new
buildings which extend oyer a block or so. They
bear nb numbers, but some way further on No. 133
is noticeable. No. 133 is succeeded by a big build-
ing with three doorways, on the fanlights of which
are the numbers 1, 2 and 3 respectively. Unless the
street gets back to No. 1 or jumps to 315 it drifts
on in much the same way to its conclusion, or the
place where it appears to conclude (it often continues
itself three blocks away in another district). And
the man who is looking for No. 77 is puzzled until
the postman, of whom he makes .inquiries, informs
him that No. 77 is really the house labelled 133, hut
the necessary alteration has not been made to the
numbers on the building. The whole thing is a
nuisance; in fact, I will go further and term it an
unmitigated and blastiferous Curse.
It is all very sad, of course, but there are
worse places in this repect than Sydney.
The writer remembers a time when there
were 37i, 37a, and West
George-street, Glasgow—he still owns a
mouldy document about some property there,
though he has long since lost all interest in
the property. And he can remember fully
20 cities he has been in where there were
no numbers at all. Also, he has been in
two cities where only one street had a name
—in each case it was an old Scriptural
name that had been handed down. Inci-
dentally, he has been in an empire which,
so far as the owners of it are concerned,
hasn’t a name. Other nations give it a sort
of nickname to fill in the blank space on
the map, and that helps to keep it going.


r
- 1 .
III"
lUi
In Dry Seasons
fV’hen feed and water
are short “Empire” Fence
is a real boom. Cattle cannot break
nor injure themselves in the attempt,
troubles are ended when once you have
through
Fencing
erected
EMPIRE
HARD STEEL
WOVEN WIRE
FENCE
It has no sharp points, won't rust, the knots
cannot slip, and it is practically indestructible.
H.C.8., Oxford, writes: —“Your ‘Empire’ Fence
is very economical and easy to put up—better
than the ordinary strands of wire, and the smal-
ler mesh at the bottom is very useful for keeping
in sheep.”
Write for fullv descriptive Catalogue sent Post
Free by the Sole Distributors, PARKER, WINDER
and ACHURCH LTD., Birmingham, England.
Agent for Australia and New Zealand—
ESSEX R. PICOT, 20 Young Street, Sydney; and
240-2 Little Lonsdale Street, Melbourne. [2
THE HEART OF THE AUTOMOBlLE—
hmiusSckbler Carburetor
The best Carburetor for ALL PETROL ENCINES
—either Land or Marine, Stationary or Moving:.
The Schebler makes your engine develop
greater horse power for a less consumption of
fuel.
The Schebler holds many world’s records.
Booklet and all information free.
Correspondence invited.
ROBERT C. SWAN & CO. LTD.,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Sole Agents for Australia.
FOR A FAIR DINKUM GO
k ...TRY THE... 4
-
o o
Q90Q90
■3=7
lEZOH
Accordeons
The World’s Best
35/-, 42/- 63/-
Sole Agent:
LYONS,
Bourkest.,Melb.
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE
\
Made in England. Perfectly
harmless, indetectable,
and guaranteed free
from Nitrate of
Silver and Dead
Salts.
IN VARIOUS
SHADES —Raven
Black, Black,
Brown, Bight or
Golden Brown,
Blonde, Chestnut
and Auburn
Price 3/6, posted 3/11
Directions with every
bottle.
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 The Block Arcade, Collins St., Melbourne
8-Hour Demonstration, Sports S Art Union
MONDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1913.
Drawn November 1, 1913 (under the sanction of the Attorney-General).
ou
Might
Win
This
£750
FIRST PRIZE:
Diamond Tiara.
2nd Prize, value £4OO
3rd Prize, value £250
and 397 other Valuable Prizes
The first prize last year was won by Mr. J. W. Walker, Break
fast Creek, Cowra, N.S.W., /~vivjp I IMO
for the modest outlay of '-riNE, O
GET A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1913.
LEST YOU FORGET—SEND TO-DAY.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on
November 6.
To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, a list
of the results will be posted. Tickets may be had from Agents
in all towns, or direct from
JOHN W. DOYLE, Secretary, Eight-Hour Committee.
Trades Hall. Sydney.
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dog's Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
PACK SADDLES
That are the outcome of long experience,
and the shape has proved to be comfort-
able to the Horse while travelling.
The Saddles are hand sewn throughout, made with
hand-stuffed leather. The Trees are guaranteed
strong, the Boards are bolted on; should the boards
be accidentally broken new ones can easily be re-
placed.
Mounted with Girth, Surcingle, Side-straps, Breech-
ing and Breast Collars. Sizes: 16m., 18in., 20in.
and 22in. Trees.
Your inquiry for price, etc., will have our imme-
diate attention.
L. Uhl & Sons Ltd., Petrie Bight, Brisbane
When Weaning Baby
The Best Food to give is
The ‘Allenburys’ Milk Food No. 1.
On the addition of water as directed, it forms an accurately estimated
humanised milk, and may be given alternately with the natural food
without fear of upsetting the child or causing digestive disturbance.
Weaning can therefore proceed gradually with comfort both to mother
and child. Farinaceous foods should not be given 1 his ti .
SUenburas Foods
pamphlet on infant feeding and management free
Allen & Hanburys Ltd.
LONDON, ENGLAND, and
MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Macmillan’s
Books on
Agriculture.
The prices in this list are those at which the
various books are published in London. The
prices in parentheses are those at which the
books are supplied by retail booksellers in Vic-
toria, New South Wales and South Australia.
Postagl is extra, at the rate of 2d. per pound
within the Australian Commonwealth.
Principles of Australian Agricul-
ture. By W. CATTON GRASBY,
F.L.S., Agricultural editor of the
Western Mail, Lecturer in Agricul-
ture and Fruit Growing, Perth
(Australia) Technical School. Fully
Illustrated. 4s. 6d.
The West Australian: “Likely to make
appeal to a very wide circle of readers. . . .Its
statement of fact are characterised by a simple
directness and clarity that cannot be too highly
commended in a text-book of the kind.’’
Farm Management. By Prof. G. F.
WARREN. Illustrated. 7s. 6d. net.
(95.)
This book teaches the necessity of efficient
farm organisation and management in order to
secure for the farmer the best crops at the
lowest price.
Farm and Garden Rule-Book. By
Prof. L. H. BAILEY. Illustrated.
Bs. 6d. net. (10s.)
When Professor Bailey’s Horticulturist’s
Rule Book was published nearly 25 years ago,
the volume became a standard agricultural work
running through sixteen editions. Taking this
book as a basis, the author has now made a
wholly new book, enlarging it to cover the
field of general farming, stock raising, dairy-
ing, poultry rearing, horticulture, gardening,
forestry and the like. It forms actually a
small cyclopedia packed full from cover to
cover with information and precepts on almost
every leading subject connected with country
life.
The Farmer’s Business Handbook.
By ISAAC PHILLIPS ROBERTS.
ss. 6d. net. (6s. 6d.)
A manual of simplified farm book-keeping
that will enable a farmer to determine which
crops pay the best and which are grown at a
loss. Some brief advice on rural law is also
included.
A Manual of Practical Farming.
By JOHN MCLENNAN, Ph.M. Il-
lustrated. 6s. 6d. net. (Bs.)
This book gives the results of scientific re-
search as aprdied to the common things in
agriculture, without the use of technical terms
or confusing tables.
Manual of Farm Animals. By
MERRITT W. HARPER. Illus-
trated. Bs. 6d. net. (10s.)
In this practical guide on the choosing, feed-
ing, breeding, care and management of horses,
cattle, sheep and swine, is contained that in-
formation which hitherto the animal owner has
had to cull from numerous sources. The work
is invaluable as a practical guide in raising
farm animals.
The Feeding of Animals. By W. 11.
JORDAN. 6s. 6d. net. (Bs.)
Jn this volume are presented the main facts
and principles fundamental to the art of feed-
ing animals. The author does not attempt to
supply a statement of rules or of the details of
practice, for he holds it to be unwise to attempt
to discriminate in practical matters so varied
and so complex.
Horse Breeding for Farmers. By
ALFRED E. PEASE. 2s. 6d.
A book that shows the farmer who has not
yet attempted the breeding of horses that he
'is neglecting a profitable pursuit.
The Training and Breaking of
Horses. By MERRITT W. HAR-
PER. Illustrated. 7s. 6d net. (95.)
A practical book. Each class of horse is
considered, and a separate chapter is devoted to
the education of the more common classes.
Special attention is also given to the training
and subduing of wild horses, as well as to
overcoming outdoor and stable vices and whims.
Fertilizers: The Source, Character
and Composition of Natural, Home-
made, and Manufactured Fertilizers ;
and Suggestions as to their Use. By
EDWARD B. VOORHEES, A.M.
ss. 6d. net. (6s. 6d.)
This book instructs the farmer regarding the
fundamental principles of the use of fertilisers
so that he may be able to determine for him-
self what his practice shall be.
Irrigation and Drainage. Principles
and Practice of their Cultural Phases.
By Prof. F. H. KING. 6s. 6d. net.
Bs.
This book deals in a clear and helpful way
with immediate practical problems, from the
farmer’s, fruit-grower’s and gardener’s stand-
point, and explains the principles underlying
the methods of culture by irrigation and drain-
age, and their importance in securing results.
Macmillan's Illustrated List of Books
on Agriculture, etc., will be sent post
free on application.
MACMILLAN SCO. LTD.
MELBOURNE and LONDON.


Shipping.
P. and Om BRANCH SERVICE.
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Via MELBOURNE and ADELAIDE.
VV I fpl 1 Y)*4l !i i i P( i
PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION AMIDSHIPS.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
LONDON £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l7 17s.
Tickets for return, via Suez (second-class), P. and
O. Mail, from £49 19s. to £53 11s.
GILCHRIST. WATT & SANDERSON. LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne: John Sanderson & Co., 11l William St.
Adelaide and Fremantle Agents: Geo. Wills & Co.,
Limited.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO.. Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking:, Public Companies, &c.
II-
Minimum
Deposit.
The Bank with
£5OO
Interest
Limit.
a Record.
is not necessarily an old Bank, although this
Institution can point to over 40 years’ satisfac-
tory service to the public.
Funds now total over £20,000,000, behind
which is the Government guarantee.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
THE STATE SAVINGS INSTITUTION.
116 BRANCHES and OVER 500
AGENCIES IN THE STATE.
31 Per
2 Cent.
Interest on
First £3OO
The Bank has
no Agencies at
Post Offices.
Head Office :
11 Moorb Street,
SYDNEY.
J. H. Davies, Secretary
3 Per
Cent.
On Excess
to £5OO
™ e jjanlt of [forth Queensland
limited.
Authorised Capital .. .. ..£700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK, LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST. a
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
THE
Australian gank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. ..£2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,534
PAID-UP (30th June, 1913) ..£1,195,398
RESERVE FUND £23,000
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets. Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS —Sir William P. Manning., Kt., Chair-
man ; George J. Sly. Esq., LL.D. ; Chas. H.
Myles, Esq. ; Mark Sheldon, Esq.; Arthur S.
Barton, Esq. ; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid-Up . . .. .. 413,418 0 0
Reserve .. . . . . .. 142,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 6
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Jas. Munro, Esq. (Chairman) ; John
Cameron, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. ; Geo. Edw. Bunning,
Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON FIXED DEPOSITS.—
12 months, at the rate of 4 per cent, per annum ; 2
years and over, at the rate of 4■£ per cent, per annum.
HEAD OFFICE .... BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Colonial fDutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £6,000,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Shipping:.
IVT ORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD, N.D.L.
-LI IMPERIAL MAIL STEAMERS,
TO COLOMBO, SUEZ, NAPLES, GENOA, ALGIERS,
SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, AND BREMEN.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Installation.
All Steamers fitted with Laundry.
FARES TO LONDON: 1., £7l/10/-; 11.. £4O;
HI., £l5 to £l9. RETURN: 1., £lO7/5/-; 11.,
£6O; 111., £3O/12/- to £37/16/
LOHMANN and CO., General Agents, 7 Bridge-st.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE.
*The largest and Finest Steamer trading between
Australia and San Francisco.
Around World and Around Pacific Tours.
Steamers stop 24 Hours at Papeete—the
“ Pearl of the Pacific.”
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE
Steamers Fitted with AVireless. *Third-Class only.
fTriple Screw Turbine.
SALOON: FARES— Third-class.
London, from £45. £l6 to £2O.
Capetown and Durban, from £3O £l3/13/- to £l7/17/-
Special Round Tickets for Return by Orient Line,
£llO (First-class both ways); £B2 CSecond-class
Orient). Saloon Return and Stop-over Tickets inter-
changeable with Holt’s Blue Funnel Line. Third-
Class Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable
with P. & O. Branch Service.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll4 10s.
SALOON CABINS on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest stan-
dard.
Pamphlets. Time-Tables, Ac., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD. Agents in Australia
Australian Steamships Line
UNSURPASSED PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Fast Passenger Steamers
Sail as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
‘CAIRNS
(‘Transhipping’ for
this and
Queensland
other
ports).
NORTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney October 11
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne October 15
Leaves Sydney October 18
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne October 22
Leaves Sydney October 25
For
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and W.A. ports).
SOUTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney October 11
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney October 18
ISLAND TOURS!
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
THE SOLOMONS!
For REST and HEALTH.
S.S. “ MINDINI ”
OCTOBER 18.
Brisbane, Tulagi, Aola,
Oizo, Faisi, Quadalcanar,
etc., etc.
£2O.
To PAPUA
(Via the Queensland Coast),
A CHARMING COMBINATION
TOUR.
NEW STEAMER—
“MORINDA”
(Maiden Trip)
NOVEMBER 3.
Brisbane, Cairns, Port
Moresby, Yule island,
Samarai, Woodlark Island.
£2O.
BURNS. PHILP & CO., Ltd., Head Office, Sydney.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH W A LES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
DIRECTORS:
£3,253,540
£2,250,000
£3,253,540
£8,757,080
Kichard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Ivt., M.L.C.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Maclvellar, Kt., M.L.C.,
President.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq. | The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
AUDITORS: Shepheard Edgeeliff Laidlev, Esq., Alfred George Milson, Esq.
Head Office—George St.. Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle St., E.C.
335 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London, Agents
and Correspondents throughout the World.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE
WORLD. J- RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
ot Sydney , Limited.
Capital Paid-Up .. £1,750,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . . . 1,630,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. 1,750,000 0 0
£5,130,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen, Esq Chairman,
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. . . Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: E. S. Cape, Esq., and F. W. Hixson, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
11. H. Massie.
Head Office: G-eorge Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: IS Birchin - Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. H. S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Bank of ||eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING. GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. . ■ £1,000,000
Preference Shares . . .. ... 500,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
up . . 500,000
Uncalled Capital .. . • • • 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,418,117
GRANTS DRAFTS
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
? a " n f¥S' a oS S:
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-Up .. .. .. ..£538,307
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. .. 159,054
Reserve Fund (invested in Govt. Stock).. 76,500
£773,861
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Gen. Man., Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Bow, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
A CORRESPONDENT writes : “There is
always one feature in The Lone
Hand each month that is alone worth the
price charged for the whole number.” The
price of The Lone Hand is 6d.
A Whole Week Saved
SYDNEY to SAN FRANCISCO by the
OceanicSteamshipCompany
10,000 tons, Twin Screw Steamers. 17 knots.
Classed 100 Al at British Lloyds.
CABINS DE LUXE with BATHS.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY—
SONOMA .. „ | Oct. 18 Dec. 13 | Feb. 7 | April 4
VENTURA .. j Nov. 15 | Jan. 10 | Mar. 7 | May 2
T he * hr ° u g h tri P to England can be accomplished
in 29 Days via Samoa, Honolulu, San Francisco.
RETURN TICKETS GOOD BY P. &0., ORIENT LINE
N.D.L., N.Z .S. Co. and S. S. & A. Co.
Tel. 2282 City. Apply— 44 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S HAR-
BOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE
thence to Tweed Heads—steamer to Murwillumbah’
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Ularence Rivers'
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Bs. fid. ; second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
Z<9w Points
//ii/entorj
CAN I OBTAIN A PATENT?
'J'he quickest way to ascertain
this, WITHOUT EXPENSE, is
to write to me describing your invention, enclosing
a small sketch where necessary. Nicety of drawing
is not essential; all that is necessary at first is to
give me YOUR IDEA.
I will at once inform you whether the idea is
patent-able, and, if so, give the necessary instructions
for further procedure.
Persons desirous of obtaining really reliable advice
or information regarding Patent matters are cordi-
ally invited to consult me personally or by letter. In
all cases a careful consideration of their plans', an
honest opinion, and a prompt reply may be
expected.
A. J. CALUNAN, Patent Attorney,
Citizens’ Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Shipping,
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
Victorian and Queensland Ports
FOR MELBOURNE \
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
T. S.S. WAN DILLA (8000
tons), fitter! Wireless
Telegraphy, Saturday
October 25 and Nover’
her 22.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
T.S.S. WARILDA, (8000
tons), fitted Wireless
releirraphy, October
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Compan y
on all services subject to conditions, which can he
ascertained on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL Ac CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
♦
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
Via FIJI AND HONOLULU.
CANADIAN - AUSTRALASIAN RM •
LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
AROUND THE WORLD TOURS.
FIRST AND SECOND CI,ASS.
SAILINGS :
*New triple-screw steamer, fitted with cab'ns-dev
luxe en suite, Nursery, Laundry, Electric Lifts, etc,
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STfiAM SHIP COMPANY OP N.Z., LTD,.
Managing Agents, 239 George Street, Sydney.
Federal & Shire Lines
Adelaide to London In 34 Days,
VIA SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. SHROPSHIRE.
12,500 Tons.
BRISBANE . .
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE . .
CAPTAIN PRENTICE.
OCTOBER 17, 1913
OCTOBER 22, 1913
OCTOBER 29, 1913
NOVEMBER 4, 1913.
FARES TO LONDON.
Saloon. Third-Class.
£4O to £45. £l6 16s. to £lB 18si
Saloon Fares from Brisbane, £2 extra.
Steerage, £l/1/- extra.
The Saloon accommodation consists of two berth
cabins on the Upper Deck, situated amidships. Well-
lighted am! ventilated Cabins, and spacious Decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provi-
sions frmn cool chambers throughout the voyage.
Electric Light throughout.
Return and Round Trip Tickets issued via Cape
and (or) Suez route. Prepaid passages arranged.
FITTED WITH WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY.
Successful vaccination certificates and signed sur-
veillance forms must be presented before passengers
from Urisbane or Sydney can be booked.
For illustrated pamphlets and full information,
a; >lv—
BIRT & CO., LTD., Sydnev and Brisbane.
McILWRAITII, McEACHARN & CO. PTY., LTD.,
Melbourne and Newcastle.
ELDER SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
H. JONES & CO„ LTD., Hobart.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“Ulimaroa,” “Wimmera.”
“Riverina,” “Victoria
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy..
Maintaining regular services betw«an\
COMMONWEALTH k ALL NEW ZEALAND POW:
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCES'KON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITEH,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE*
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And All Ports.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL
Fire insurances
Marine Risks ..
- £500,000.
effected on all classes o
Buildings, Stocks, * ‘ ,rn !
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, freight*
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager
JASON
■■ h I
Unshrinkable
HOSIERY.


Hotels, &c.
ifflWilliiK?
rafois
in'
m
Georoe hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 13- per day.
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It is
the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
OOSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30
lIOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the com fort of guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Gent’s
Aertex
Cellular
Combinations.
SINGLET and
TRUNK DRAWERS.
White 6/6 fT.
The most comfort-
able form of
Underwear, and,
being of Aertex
Cellular, the
most healthy.
Made also in other
plain and fancy
Cottons, Lisle
Threads, Woollens,
and Silks.
When ordering
state height and
size of chest.
ac, n!£w.- DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
76 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
(Next door to Farmer’s.)
Williams’ Holder Top
Shaving Stick.
This is the good old
Shaving' Stick known to
every gentleman
in Australia, but
now presented in
a new and attrac-
tive form, greatly
enhancing it s
convenience and
economy.
-
ItIIAMS
■s—
chemist will be glad
to show it to you.
1
11111111111111111 l
BOBS
KILL COCKROACHES
PROCURABLE FROM:
George Gough & Son, Ltd., Bris-
bane.
H. H. Groth & Co., Sydney.
London Pharmacy, Ipswich, Q’land
G. R. Smith, Townsville,
Lomas & Co., Warwick, ~
Jack & Co., Dalby, ”
Bryant & McLean, Roma, ~
E. S. Hale, Bundaberg, »
Newhery & Shambler, Gympie,,,
Peak & Co., Toowoomba,
Williams, Ltd., Rockhampton, „
Lamberts, Ltd., Mackay, ”
Alex. Campbell & Sons,
Maryborough, ”
Ami all reliable Storekeepers throughout
Australasia.
Agents wanted in West; * South Australia.
Write to r.OUGH’S, BRISBANE.
'HE Australian Maßaziue—TlJ
HAND- The National Alontlily.
E EONIS
Price. 6d.
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFICE
Bank of Hustralia
SYDNEY
Branches are open for the transaction of GENERAL BANKING BUSINESS at
New South Wales —Sydney. Federal Capital —Canberra. Victoria —Melbourne.
Queensland—Brisbane, Rockhampton, and Townsville. South Australia —Adelaide.
Western Australia—Perth. Tasmania —Hobart. And at 36-38 NEW BROAD ST., London.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, foreign places direct. Foreign bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of credit and circular notes issued to any part of the world. Bills negotiated or
forwarded for collection. Banking and Exchange business of every description transacted within
the Commonwealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Interest paid on fixed deposits.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.
Branches are open at 3 Moore Street, Sydney; 317 Collins Street, Melbourne; Queen Street,
Brisbane; Royal Exchange, 96 King William Street, Adelaide; St. George’s Terrace,
Perth; Elizabeth Street. Hobart; and Canberra (Federal Capital); and 1900 Agencies at
Post Offices which issue Money Orders in the Australian Commonwealth and Papua,
from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily, and noon Saturday.
All Branch Offices are open for deposits and withdrawals on Friday, 7 to 9 p.m.
Withdrawals on demand may be effected at any office within the Commonwealth.
1/- Minimum Deposit. 3 % Rate of Interest on all Deposits up to £3OO.
JAMES KELL, Deputy Governor. August, 1913. DENISON MILLER, Governor.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws,
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queens-
land offers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars,
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
MJf
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay •
TARIFF, from 11s. per day, or apartments
mav he secured separately by the day from 3s. 6d. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to Thk Manager.
Championship Ammunition
YOUR choice in ammunition for a big match
is not apt to be influenced by claims or any-
thing but a thorough and successful try out.
And if it's an international championship nothing
will satisfy you but that make of cartridges which
you yourself have proven the most reliable,
Remington-UMC metallic cartridges have
been the choice of the winners of over a score of
the biggest matches held in the past two years.
Among these are:
World’
World’
World’
World
World
World
World
s Five Man Team Record held by the Park Rifle Club
s Eight Man Team Record held by the Royal Naval Barrack*TeamT96 x 800
s Ten Man Team Record held by the Park Rifle Club
s Olympic Pistol Record held by A. P. Lane
s Individual Pistol Championship held by A. P. Lane
s Individual Duelling Championship held by A. P. Lane ,
a Smallest Group with any gun or ammunition made by J. Pepe
1985 x 2000
509 x 600
449 x 600
287 x 300
There are certain technical details in the manufacture
of Remington-UMC cartridges which we believe are
responsible for their success. May we send you an
explanatory booklet? Your name and address on a
post-card to-day will bring it by return mail.
Remington Arms - Union Metallic Cartridge Co.
Australian Agent, D. D. Bryant, P. O. Box 686, Melbourne
New York London
\ 1 l / * r
: • / •*
m
Lime-Frui t Juice.
”Brings to your l ps the juice
of the lime fruit.
It is a drink that is always cooling and refreshing.
The children love it. Order a few bottles to-day.
Large supplies have been lately shipped
from London.
MONTS ERRAT i» »old by kll leading storekeeper^
SPECIAL NOTICE.
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
S P Sif g GT/«p C p E erarS ( a A r
INSPECT MINING PROPERTIES with a view to Develop-
ins. Financing, or Purchasing same.
Address • MR B. MAGNUS, General Manager, MOUNT MORGAN, QUEENSLAND.
ARE YOU
DEAF?
If you are deaf or going deaf, you will be glad to
hear of a simple and scientific device which restores
hearing, no matter how old you are. No mystery or
secrecy about it ; we describe it fully, and explain
just how it acts. You use spectacles as sight magni-
fiers, and in the same way you use this sound magm-
fier to hear better. Unlike spectacles, the Wilson
Common-sense Ear-Drums are invisible and comiort-
able. No one can tell you are wearing them. ihey
rest the ear nerves by taking the strain off them
the strain of trying to hear indistinct sounds. What
a relief to have done with that tiring strain. Being
made of the softest Para rubber they cannot be telt,
even when the head rests on a pillow. lor the same
reason, a blow on the side of the head will not hurt
the ear. They protect the tender inner parts of the
ear, that are so sensitive, from cold winds, dust, sud-
den and piercing sounds. „ ,
So that you may clearly understand how the Sound
Magnifiers restore hearing, we give an illustration ot
one as it lies in the ear. You will notice that the
Sound Magnifier is shaped like a trumpet, and so con-
veys even the faintest sounds right to the natural
drum. Being of the softest rubber, it cannot hurt
the ear. It fits the ori-
fice of the ear with pre-
cision and comfort. The
division that runs across
the mouth is to allow the
removal and insertion of
the Ear-Drum, and to
brace it.
The shape of the Wilson
Ear-Drum has been chosen
after years of experience as
the best adapt-
ed to carry the
faintest sound.
Of course, if
you have lost
the he a r ing-
nerve com-
pletely, or were
born deaf, we
cannot pretend
to cure you. Only a miracle could
do that, in spite of some of the
absurd claims made to-day. But
if you can hear the faintest sound,
do not despair. You will never
regret trying the Wilson Ear-
Drums. We have letters to show
you from deaf people in Australia
and New Zealand, who have been
cured, and you can be cured, too. You may wear
the Ear-Drums day and night, and take them out
whenever you wish. Children can wear them (we
have special sizes for children from six to twelve).
Even a child can insert and remove them without
the least danger.
The price is £1 (the fee for a doctor’s single
visit). This includes a pair of drums (they are only
sold in pairs), a fine nickel remover, and also an
inserter. After the first pair is bought you may pur-
chase a single drum at any time for Bs., but the
pair you get at first will last quite two years. Do
not ask for a trial pair. We do not send them out
on trial, and so they are never secondhand. Use the
Order Form below, and the Outfit will be sent you
at once, with the fullest instructions. Don’t delay,
but have the comfort of good hearing as soon as you
can.
*0
frf
ORDER FORM.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
103 Arlington Chambers,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please send me an Outfit containing a pair of
Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums, an Inserter and a
Remover, for which I enclose One Pound.
Name
Address •
NOTE. —Send Money Order or Postal Note. If a
Bank Note or Sovereign is sent, you must register it.
WAVERLEY PENS
FOR SWIFT LEGIBLE WRITING NO PEN
CAN COMPETE WITH A WAVERLEY.
ITS ENTICING ACTION, ITS SMOOTH
TIJRNED-UP POINT, AND ITS DURA-
BILITY, MAKE IT INCOMPARABLY THE
BEST NIB AND THE CHEAPEST. THE
RESERVOIR WAVERLEY CAN DO 200
WORDS WITH ONE DIP. TRY IT.
SIXPENCE PER BOX
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND DEALERS.
Wholesale Agent
ROBERT HUTTON
521 FLINDERS LANE
s MELBOURNE :
THIS MEbKWE CHEST
SHOULD BE IH
—.YOUR HOME
For the Hush
Home, where the medical
man may be miles «".y. »
Medicine Chest Is often the
„l saving life. H certa.nly does away
with calling in a doctor for minor
nack a chest containing a remedy for all ora nay
illnesses and accidents
qualified chemist KhMI DIHS:
leading P h »‘‘‘?\™ EB ,, r Stains and Krulse.;
Liniments and Medicines S Powders
Ointments lor external app , , L lnts, Plasters,
lor Internal „ J, quackery about this
wrs ~ -dr-ass
-UL.":"'-: y In ."tmmonweaJh for t
Carriage
25/.
Paid
Free Otter.—" The Home Medical
Hook " aent Post Free to any A
address. Write tor it.
'2uv'a«.ia<a iq wiino o&fr
ai-sMHVJu w<%i\jrA j
AlddflG 3WISKJ3W 3UOU
✓T ... IV-JL
/
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘ARABIS’
Egyptian Henna before all others ; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used."
“Arabis” Egvptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain" on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive you. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardley on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.


FOR THE MAN ON THE LAND
to/>e “MAFEKING” MAT
A shady model with a flat brim 3J inches wide. Grease-proof leathers and fairly high crown.
Useful shades of Grey and Cuba. 12/6 each, Postage 9d. extra.
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
BRISBANE.
BARKED YOUR SHINS?
Well, try Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Liniment; it will
take away all the pain and stiffness, and you will
forget all about it. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s. Obtain-
able everywhere,*
You’ve heard of the Duke of Saxe-Coburg. Let s talk
of the King of Sacks—that is, the “once-used eqm
to-new” sack. It’s the King, because it s a •,
saver. One of these sacks would prevent k
leaving the country if it was sewn up in
sacks point the way out of your sack worries >
no “cul-de-sac” about them as a business PP
tion ; there’s only one hole in them,and 1 the
the mouth. They’re tiptop, in T a„ oSP v.street,
“Sack Specialists,” T. SMITH, LTD., Su
Sydney. Do it now,* —■^s^
Missing Friends.
A Federal Detective Agency.
J. CANTLON
(late Victorian Detective Police) ’
takes Commercial, - .- s>
blissing Friend and Matrimonial bnqui
Searches. Surveillance.
49 Elizabeth Street, Melbournf^,
D~KRRY.—If Thomas :Berry, *Berry, of
L-' Young and Co., and son of II j fl.
Grenfell, deceased, will communicate ’ nic thing
Moifitt, Solicitor. Grenfell, he will hear oi
to his advantage. .
ILL JAMKS RYAN, who left Nanango an(f
and who was last heard of betwe rson knowing
Blackall about 30 years ago, or any pe™ knowinfr
his whereabouts, if alive, or an £ P® un j c ate with
where he died, if dead, please
the Curator of Intestate Estates, B
IN
BANANA LAND
In the Assembly the other evening the
manner of appointing the J.P. was ven-
tilated. It was alleged that one J.P. is or
was a yardman at a Northern pub. and that
when he mounted the bench drunks always
got off with a nominal fine. Maybe. Yet
as a matter of fact, the boozing back-country
J.P. is usually very severe in this matter,
and compounds for his own alcoholic lapses
by dealing it out stiff to other offenders.
Old John Connolly, the picturesque father
of Gayndah. has a philosophy of his own.
The other day, when he was briskly hobbling
into his 98th year, a travelling dentist
arrived. Meeting the old chap the tooth-
carpenter advised him to purchase a set.
The cheerful Methuselah asked how much,
and, told three guineas, threw this
refusal oft his aged chest: “No thanks, I
don’t think I’ll bother about them. I’ll wait
and buy a good set.”
A wail of woe comes down from Mutta-
burra. In order to squeeze out a white
baker who is making a living in that town,
the Chinese gardener has joined hands with
the Chinese baker, the former engaging not
to sell vegetables to anyone who does not
buy the latter’s bread. Under this Yellow
Combine Muttaburra is groaning; but like
all West Queensland Labor strongholds, it
has got so used to patronising Chows that it
doesn’t see how it can possibly live without
them.
Treasurer Barnes’s monthly statement
shows that Queensland’s revenue has in-
creased by £123,000 for the past three
months over the corresponding period of
1912-13, while the expenditure has swelled
by £203,000. This increase of outgoings
over income in the ratio of nearly 2 to 1 is
pleasantly referred to by the Courier as a
“healthy condition of the finances.” Micaw-
ber always was a bright-eyed optimist.
Religious comfort has strange manifesta-
tions. Austin, who brutally murdered a
little girl and was hanged the other day in
Boggo-road Gaol, went to his death saying
that _he was now “perfectly happy.”
Religion, having shown him what a dreadful
thing he had done, had, it seems, filled him
with light and joy. It is a weird brand of
religion that makes a man happy when it
leads him to realise the wrong he has done
and the wretchedness he has caused; still,
quite good authorities go on protesting that
it is the right sort.
ILLEGAL SPORT.
IMPORTED TOFF : “I heah — ah—that old man
has been—ah—awwested for shooting."
BUSH PUBLICAN : "Yis—he shot a jackeroo
yisterday. ”
IMPORTED T OOF: “And I pwesume—ah-
this is the close season for jackewcos? ”
All Australia isn’t leaning against a post.
The other day the Laidley folk discovered
that their hospital 30-acre reserve was be-
coming overrun with prickly pear. Instead
of petitioning the Government for a grant,
a hundred Laidley citizens rolled up with
hoes one Saturday, and cleared the whole
patch by sundown, their womenfolk fortify-
ing them with billy tea made on the spot.
If this game had started 30 years ago, the
prickly curse would be small potatoes to-
day.
Charleville, the bush capital of the West,
which by turns dozes and drinks on the
eastern bank of the River 483 miles
from Brisbane, has almost been wiped out
by fire and Denham’s Liquor Act. Some
two months ago the leading groggery and
five shops were burnt. On the opposite
corner an old hotel is coming down to make
room for new premises. And on a recent
Saturday morning the shingles of the leading
general merchants, and the only chemist, and
a few other joints, were burnt to the
ground. Thus the three principal business
corners of the town are in ruins. The post-
office occupies the other corner, and from the
boss to the small messenger the staff of that
establishment is reduced to a condition of
nervous jumps.
“Rangan”: A prodigal-son deputation
wailed its way to Premier Denham the other
day. It represented the Rockhampton Har-
bor Board, and though its sorrowful tale
wrung tears from Digby it failed to wring
cash. It had, it said, reached the full limit
of its borrowing power (£300,000) ; but hav-
ing got so much in the habit of borrowing,
it did not know how to carry on without it.
Its income was £33,600 a year, and £16.800
went straight away in interest and redemp-
tion. Its staff, etc., cost £5400 a year, and
thus it had only £11.400 left to meet all
other expenditure, while the river alone de-
manded £15,000. By January it would be
£2OOO behind, and on top of that would now
fall the burden of the Port Alma railway,
which it had guaranteed, and which also
showed a deficit. It therefore implored
Denham to put the burden of the foolish
railway on the State. But Denham wasn’t
taking any bad debts; so the downhearted
deputation left with an empty belly and
returned to the land of husks. ‘ Rockhamp-
ton has provided itself with three costly out-
lets. and as all share the trade, each shows a
deficit.
“Itan” : It was at the Anglican Congress.
Days had gone in the task of battling with
imaginary and real problems; nights had
been spent in dis-
cussions so pro-
found that most of
those present could
only pretend that
they saw the bot-
tom of them, when
a little, thin man,
who didn’t look
nearly as well fed
as most of the
gaitered throng, in-
terposed a real,
live subject, which
was crying to them
at their very doors.
“I rise to say in a
word,” he pleaded,
“that child labor
on dairy farms
should be abol-
ished. I person-
ally know of cases
where little chil-
dren just back
from the dairy
yards are too tired
to eat their tea,
and fall asleep
half undressed
through sheer fat-
igue.” There was
no cry of “Shame !”
Just silence, with
a slight, uneasy
shuffling, which
meant: “Here’s an
unnleasant fellow
saying unpleasant
things.” The thin
man went on to
tell of another ease
of cruelty to poor,
ill-treated children.
A farmer on the
N.S.W. Nor tli
Coast, whose in-
come was £l2OO a
year, compelled a
crippled boy to
drudge on the
farm, and had
brought up his
female ebildmn in the most shameful igno-
rance. The thin, earnest man evidently knew
a lot more ; but the conference passed on to
discuss Modern Thought” and the abstruse
ideas which cover uo the practical issues of
life.
Fugals”: Goondi, on the Johnstone
iuver, where the alligator comes from, has
its pocket-edition Chinatown, whose inhabi-
tants are nearly all in the employ of the
C.S.R. Co. ; but in compliance with Den-
ham s Sugar Growers Employers’ Act, this
season should be positively their last. Go
amongst the huts (the 'former villas of
Tommy Tanna) some night, and a more cos-
mooolitan lot of gamblers you would hardly
find under one sky. They play mostly in the
open, outside their bungalows, squatting
around mats, with pickle-bottle lamps placed
at intervals. The babel of tongues, the
rattle of dice in retired jamtins. and the
jingle of lucre cause the sleepy alligator in
the bed of the river to turn over on his side
and dream again of fat children, Pongs and
dogs. In _ this village are Chows, .Taps,
Malays, Hindoos, Cingalese, Arabs, negroes,
Javanese, Binghis, plenty feller half-castes,
a native of Madagascar, and one Tommy
Tanna —the last of his tribe. There are also
a few side shows, such as opium smoking,
Flossie gins, and sly grog selling, bad smells,
and fresh arguments in favor of a White
Australia at every step.
“Kai,” from the North :
Townsville Harbor Board, the antiquated piece of
political jobbery which built a breakwater on the
strength of a beer contract, wants to gather more
shekels at the expense of ill-used Bowen by collaring
the American beef trade. So it proposes to construct
yet another pier with which to further congest its
futile dock. Here is a veritable mud-pond grabbing
like a steam shovel at all the trade within reach,
while scarce a hundred miles south is a gem of a
harbor languishing and stagnated. Of course, the
bloated merchants and agents of the ditch port ex-
plain that it is the enterprise of Townsville that has
made it go ahead, and that Bowen people are ante-
diluvians. But they can’t get away from the fact
that they will be up against it sooner or later, and
the certainty that Bowen may collar part of their
trade gives them brain storms resembling in furv
their own cyclones.
Na Prod—Na Nosht.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Peace Conference opened its Palace at the
Hague.— Pnss item.
A flanking party of Bulgarians was charging with
the cry, “Na Prod, Na Nosht” ; “On, on, to the
knife.’’ — Recent war item.
The Hall of Peace was garnisht passing
nobly,
The Gates stood open wide,
And from remotest Earth there came a
throng
Who made orations fine
And thanked the Lord that white-winged
Peace at last,
With dove-like eyes serene, and olive crown,
Had come to bless this Earth so sad and
weary,
And bid her tumult cease.
Rose up De Blinski, envoy of the Czar,
For to great Russia’s autocrat was due
The building of this Palace —called of
Peace —
Told how his master, whom four million men
In warrior garb salute as Little Father,
And fear as Little God,
Wished well to this great meeting and its
mission,
And trusted soon to see the cannon melted
(Especially in Nippon’s perky land),
The sword and bayonet beaten into plough-
shares
(Except where Slav was Lord),
And every steel-clad ship built by the Kaiser
Upon the scrap-heap thrown.
Von Tempsky followed next, a sturdy
Deutscher,
Who thought the safest plan
Of spreading Peace through Earth’s re-
motest borders
Must lie in sending a parson host
Who’d preach by night and spend the garish
day
In chanting hymns denouncing War —and
vary
The placid tenor of their mild proceedings
By passing tracts around.
Then came De Smythe, a burly Briton,
Who scarce had oped his mouth
When on a south-east wind there came an
odor
Of smoke, of death, of blood, of burning
powder,
And then a sound of screams, of shouts in-
fernal
Blent with the wails of myriad men a-dying,
And over all a battle-yell appalling
That drove the Conference into silence fear-
ful —
“Na Prod —Na. Nosht!”
Aye—spite of gentle Christ, and sage
Mohammed.
And Buddh, the patient, with his tender
lore,
We stand to-day in mutual hate embattled ;
The Teuton millions scowling at the Frank
The Slav armed cap-a-pie, alert, expectant,
While Islam like a wild-cat stands at bay,
His foeman springing fierce to tear his vitals
And lifting to the Heavens his olden war-
cry—
“On ! On ! The Knife !”
Yea—thus far have we gone. The brutal
Bulgar
In savage frankness hurls the truth to
Heaven,
While Europe waits at gaze and cants in
horror,
Her hand still gripping tight the secret
dagger,
Her bombs in grim profusion thick around
her.
For use—when Blood-lust calls.
Meantime the Balkan warrior lifts his
chorus
And cheers his hounds of Hell
By chanting loud a fierce blood-drinking
anthem
That grimly rings :
“Now spare not limb and spare not life —
Na Prod —Na Nosht!
Give quarter none to maid nor wife —
Na Prod—Na Nosht!
Our story old with wrongs is rife,
And we must right them with the Knife
The Knife —The Knife !
Na Prod —Na Nosht!”
QUEENSLAND.
F. B.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, October 4 imo
My Dear Thargomindah, ’ X6 '
The foreign Consuls gave a river •
on the Lucinda on Monday and s,m Pcnic
them was William Macgregor Con^i’T 1
Britain. Several Australians
present, and friendly greetings, dears 7*2
other dinlomatic goods were exchanged
Popular Captain Paddy Macfarlano \
been transferred to Victoria. ild j as
soldiers farewelled him yesterday l j
pressed a tobacco box on him. 5 an<^
The Women’s Christian Temnem,,.
Union has been toiling in the vineyard S
its _ spiritual sleeves rolled up, and V?
noxious weeds of the Seventeen Sins w!
been diligently weeded out. I hone It
won’t grow again, my dear, but thev’re i
hardy consignment and the Hoofed'
dener fleeth like the wind in their propa^
The sistern testified mightily. One dame
denounced a member of Parliament Dm
name mentioned, of course) for luring an
acquaintance of hers from a tea-and-nmfHn
past to a fantod future of whisky and frm
ish water. Another explained that she had
been induced to foilow the milk-white banner
of the W.C.T.U. owing to the conduct of
Anglican bishops—not all of them, but ton
many—who were partial to pineapple iuice
The agitated female flung her weight behind
the old chariot in order to get a day’s march
nearer home or something. These he
strenuous times.
John Shirley, D.Sc., has been appointed
head ot the training college, which is to
start operations next January.
The Lewis Waller-Madge Titheradge co
and family appurtenances will leave for
Melbourne to-morrow morning. To-night
Miss Madge was weighed down with fare-
well flowers from the poor but faithful gal-
leryites and the beastly rich in the stalls
Incidentally, she was on the racecourse to-
day encased in a coat and skirt of white
pique, with facings of purple. A white hat
that would have added years to anyone else
merely suited her.
Miss Titheradge is accompanied on the
Australian tour by a nice English girl
named Miss Stuart, who allies a sense of
humor to a gift of blunt criticism. She
was induced to come to these parts because
First-Lieut. Stuart, of the Melbourne, is a
brother. Geoff. Stuart, of the Encounter,
also belongs. Mrs. Arthur Edwards, once
of Sydney, and now wife of Admiral Stuart
of Maidenhead (Eng.), is the mamma of the
family.
The Dinghy Sailing Club and the Q.F.S.
had better weather to-day for the opening
of their season than the R.Q.Y.C. did last
Saturday. The river was covered with
water, boats, etc., and the banks with earth,
people, etc.
There was a severe epidemic of fetes to-
day. Mrs. A. M. Ilertzberg had one at New
Farm, in aid of the Queen Alexandra Home.
Mrs. Digby Denham was responsible for
another at West End, and some more raged
at Junction Park and at Davies Park. The
W.C.T.U. also went gay on a coin tea at
Bed Hill this afternoon.
Yours in the best spirits,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
THE PERILS OF THE DEEP .
THE LADY : “ Your poor young wife must fed
horribly anxious about you. She newt
knows what is happening on a voyage."
THE OFFICER : “No, but she can often girt a
shrewd guess.”


COATME/VML
OS* 1
“MAKE TOURI/NG f\ PLEASURE
.
■m
r
’« « '
■ W
25W
• V •*!
NS
V
it
i
jitl
sjmi
4*J
’ \
-■ -\ m
MS
P--


Was pale
and thin
Weak and delicate
children grow healthy,
sturdy and strong
when given SCOTT’S
Emulsion.
“ My two sons, one pale and thin, were
suffering with severe coughs and loss
of appetite. After the first bottle
of SCOTT’S they were brighter and
eating better. In a short time they
were quite cured and looked a
picture of health
Both children like SCOTT’S so well
that they call it cream.” —(Signed)
Mrs. C. Barnard, 64, Angel Street,
Newtown, Sydney, N.S.W. 31/8/11*
com
Emulsion
Only the genuine SCOTT’S
bears the Fishman Trade Mark.
TRADE
MARK
LAGTOBAGILLIN E
The Bacillary treatment of Bacterial and Fermen-
tative affections of the alimentary canal.
Lactobacilline pits the vigorous lactic ferment
against the less resistant organisms of decomposi-
tion, with the result that the latter are immediately
destroyed.
Lactobacilline is prepared under the scientific super-
vision and control of PROFESSOR METCHNIKOFF.
It is prepared in tablets to be eaten with meals,
and by checking intestinal putrefaction exerts a
remarkable influence towards the attainment of per-
fect health. It is of special value in all affections
of the digestive tract, auto-intoxication, colites, in-
testinal catarrh, chronic dyspepsia, etc.
Every cylinder of tablets bears the words:—
“Lactobacilline preparee par la Societe le Fer-
ment Seul Fournisseur du Professor Metchnikoff.”
Without which none are genuine.
Lactobacilline is sold in boxes containing eight
cylinders of tablets, price 5/6, and can be ordered
through any chemist, or obtained direct from
the Dep6t Societe le Ferment, Australasia
Chambers, 4061414 Queen Street, Brisbane; or
Branches: Vickery’s Chambers, 82 Pitt Street, Syd-
ney ; Safe Deposit Buildings, Queen Street, Mel-
bourne ; Ellershaw’s Buildings, Cliff Street, Fre-
mantle ; Smeeton’s Buildings, Queen Street, Auck-
land, from where all information can be obtained.*
COOKE’S
Transit
Theodolite.
The Most Reliable
Instrument on the
Market.
5-inch, with open pattern
standards, circles divided on
silver to 20 minutes, and
leading by verniers, two to
each circle, to 20 seconds.
Telescope with object glass,
1.125 in aperture, and Bin.
focal length; 4 levelling
screws 2 inverting eyepieces
—powers, 16 and 24, 2 sun-
caps, sunshade, trough com-
pass and plumb-bob, packed
in mahogany case, fitted with
leather shoulder straps. Tri|
pod of solid pattern.
PRICE, F. 0.8. BRISBANE, £3B.
A. P. Greenfield & Co. Ltd.
189=91 George Street, Brisbane.
CATALOGUE ON APPLICATION.
“AUSTRALIANS YET.”
By
GRANT HERVEY.
Verses of Vim for Full-sired
Men and Real Australian
Women !
“Grant Hervey, the
ardent Republican leader
and most characteristic
of Australian poets, voices
the aspirations of a
strenuous democrat in a
wav that would have de-
lighted the heart of old
Walt Whitman.” —London
Book Monthly.
Get These Ballads of a
Big: Australian!
Autographed, with National Platform and
Literature of the Young-Australia Party, 4/0
post free, U.S.A. $1.25. From
THE YOUNG-AUSTRALIA BOOK STORE,
Box 81 P. 0., Casterton. Victor'a. Australia
Established 1847.
Allcock’s
Plasters
Eagle Mark.
The World's Greatest
External Remedy.
1
*1
Pains in the Back
Allcock's Plasters have no equal.
Strengthen Weak Backs
as nothing else can.
Pains in the Side
Allcock's Piasters relieve promptly
and at the same time
strengthen side and restore energy.
Allcocks is the original and genuine porous plaster.
It is a standard remedy, sold by chemists in every part
of the civilized world. Apply wherever there is Pain.
When you need a Pill
TAKE A
Brandretfts Pill
Purely Vegetable.
(Est. 1752.)
For Constipation, Biliousness, Headache, Dizziness, Indigestion, Eto.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
ALLCOCK MANUFACTURING CO., Birkenhead, England.
5
»4 ‘ . '
n
A HOME FOR
MELBOURNE GUESTS.
¥
Corner Flinders Street
and Spencer Street,
MELBOURNE.
Sir Charles Hotham Hotel
Hunyadi Janos
Indiscretions of diet are the most frequent cause of liver complaints,
Other contributing factors are excess of alcohol and lack of exercise.
To safely and speedily overcome such a condition there is no better
remedy than the taking of a wine-glassful of Hunyadi Janos Natura
Aperient Water before breakfast every day for a week or fortnight,
which has the happy effect of relieving in an almost instantaneous
manner any congestion of the liver.
Hunyadi Janos is obtainable at all chemists.
The Famous NATURAL Aperient Water
LET US TALK OF EMPIRE!
The SILENT EMPIRE BIOSCOPE is UNBEATABLE.
This statement is easily borne out by the
numerous delighted reports we receive from users.
Being British made with all-Steel Sprockets,
possessing Maltese Cross in Oil Bath, improved
gate and masking device, the Empire is the
Bioscope of To-day.
Showmen !
Our faith in our Machine is so strong that we
will instal a model in your show, and make a
comparison with the machine you are at present
using, and we will stand or fall by the result.
7=Z
KELVIN
GENERATING SET
We issue a Special Booklet dealing with these Machines. SEND FOB ONE.
WE ARE SOLE AGENTS FOR THE KELVIN GENERATING SETS.
“EVERYBODY IS USING THEM.”
JERDANS LTD.,
393 George Street,
_ SYDNEY-
Improve your appearance and protect your health by growing a
moustache by the aid of
CAPILLARINE.
No one need know you are using it. Rub a little on the upper
bedtime, and you will soon be the possessor of a handsome mous a
Hundreds of men have tested it with success during the past 30 jeais.
Price 10/6 Jar, Post Free.
The C. & A. Moustache Trainer,
shapes the moustache. 2/0, 3/0, o/o,
RAIG & AITKEN
>
654
George Street, Syd ne Y
Established 30 Years_
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS- No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Barroid: You want us to chortle because
Dorrigo burned Wade’s effigy for the crime of block-
ing the mad scheme of finance submitted by the
bogus Labor Government of N. S. Wales, thus cheat-
ing Dorrigo out of its railway. Dorrigo may deserve
a railway; but there are a few other people to con-
sider besides those who live at Dorrigo. Also Dor-
rigo, like every other place, doesn’t merely want a
railway. It wants cheap freights. And it won’t get
cheap freights by adopting a scheme which means
paying a contractor on the basis, not of what he
saves but of what he wastes. Somebody has pulled
Dorrigo’s leg, and it had better retract that effigy-
burning quick and lively, before it makes any more
political enemies. A place like Dorrigo can’t afford
to make political enemies. Writer remembers that
Broken Hill once burned then Minister for Mines
Abigail’s effigy for neglecting to give it a Govern-
ment water supply. That was over 25 years ago—-
and Broken Hill hasn’t got a Government water sup-
ply yet Wongi: He is leader of the party in the
House and chairman of the party in caucus......
Jobber: So at last even you have found out that The
Bulletin sometimes publishes an old “gag.” Some
day it may occur to you that even a wilted gag
might be passed for the sake of an exceptional draw-
ing. Furthermore, even the longest-memoried man
in the world can’t remember all the gags A.
Munro: Sorry too late for publication. ’Tis pity....
Charles E. Clark: The music publisher will do it for
y0u.... Mint: Say a new thing, and almost any old
way will do ; but say an old thing, and it must be
said in a new way to get in. You merely say the
old thing in the old way. .. .T.M.H.: That corre-
spondent may be a liar; but he's a liar with local
knowledge, who sends his stuff under the local post-
mark, anyway. .. .P.T.S.: According to Webster, a
billion is a thousand millions in America and France,
and a million millions in England and Germany.
We’ve got no definite opinion on the subject our-
selves, never having owned a billion... .It.AV.: Don’t
doubt that it’s a fact. It’s old enough to be a
legend;.. .H.T.N.: Thanks, but he’s a dear old
friend of a joke—he’s dropped in after every Mel-
bourne show for nearly 30 years. The other has
been paragraphed to death by the dailies.... Coney:
You wonder why we never will print that snake
story. Well, in strict confidence, there’s not much
snake and less story about it. . . .Kimbolton: (1)
Standard gold (English) is a metal consisting of 11
parts gold and one part something else. (2) A
sovereign is standard gold. (3) Pure gold is 24
carat.-. (4) Gold in a sovereign is 22 carat
BelleriVe: A sporting song:—
A SOLD FIGHT.
From the ring side rang out
Loud shouts of hurrav
As the star bruiser awhile
AVith his opponent ' ,; d clay
In the tenth round he went
Down to a tan on the ’aw
AVhich aroused among the patrons
A terrific uproar
As he lay stretched out
Like a vanquished knight
The truth dawned upon the loser’s
He’d sold the fight.
....Paddy (Brisbane): A tender shoot of Spring
verse. Too green. .. . W.: Royal verses unsuitable.
.... Matteo: It covers a good deal of paper without
being interesting. ... Fairlie: Send it to the lady—
she may value it.... Bush-veldt: Dreary lot of
assorted crocodiles. ... S.R.A. . (V.) : Smooth and
colorless first attempt. Idea is 01d....N.AY. (M.L.) :
Stop writing—if you can.. . .C.8.A.: Unoriginal patri-
otic remarks in verse. .. . A.S.M.: Decent stuff, but
hardly up to print level. . . .H.H.S.: A par buried in
a haystack. . . . J.H.G. : Old gag. . . .E.G. : Chopped up
wooden verses. .. .Caesar: Fairly well done, but out
of our line. Try another paper.... Robert L. : Can’t
use it. . . .Seedwheat: Dog not worth the space here.
C.A.G.: Dull in a wild, rainswept way.... Drift:
Verses rather thin, and the writer who made the
remark passed out years ago. Rejected with best
wishes. .. .J. 11. H.: “Power” is a plain brown poem,
and the other item is its twin brother. . . .Bill: Fairlv
good stuff of its class. It might find a market in
another office. ... Donald D.: AVar sketch unconvinc-
ing. Asylum sketch grim enough, but too vague and
inconclusive. .. .AY.H.L.: No value.... Anti (S.A.) :
Heavy-footed verse. .. .Slobber: Social items may not
interest you, but you seem to be a close student of
the horse peerage.... Alfred M.: Another poem of
the Mabel variety and you will be struck off the
r011!....N. Simons (Tareoola Goldfield): Seems to
be a shor( story there, but it’s buried. . . .F.J. (North
Sydney) : Poem sunk with a brick in seven fathoms
of green water. (P.S. —AVe are not charging you
for the brick.).... Pa: That joke has had its day.
(Now don’t you think vou had better go out and
weed the garden ?).... Godfrey G.: Poem jolted o *
of its own accord.... T 17 Y : Verses lack snap, and
whv didn’t you write them out straightly instead
using those abbreviations?... .Still: If anything, you
are too explicit. Cool 0ff....1 Male: The true frag-
rance of the froth isn’t there. .. .J.K. (M.L.) : Good
sleeping draught verse. AVe all yawned over it....
Rope S.: No story. You just shovel out a few alleged
facts.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
AV.AY.: No value for illustration, and less for
anything else. .. .L.J.11.: Certain smudges to hand.
The art is beneath derision, and the only gag that is
worth anything—-that about the man who was late
for the resurrection —is very old and very much
borrowed.... Harry H.:' Please remember that the
split skirt isn’t an eternal subject. Even the splittest
skirt is liable to become worn-out after a hundred
artists have been making pictures about it. . . ,C. R.
Smith: A futile scrap.
The wail of a woman :
They were telling me the other day that no Aus-
tralian can find “service” in London, on account of
her vast “insolence.” But give me the average im-
migrant Cockney if I want a walking insult. There
was one connected with a club I once belonged to
(now dissolved —by the caretaker), where the guar-
dian angels were a married couple from Albion. Their
sole mission in life was to prove all the members
the AVorst Women in Sydney. At all hours of the
day or night the lady-spouse would burst in
avowedly to see if she had hung up a cup the pro-
per way, or folded a towel exactly square, or put
away the knives crossed. Once we were mad enough
to protest, and were assailed with such frightful
censure that we spent weeks looking for the words
in three different dictionaries, and finally decided it
must be a patois. One night she leant on her
broom (which she prized too highly to sweep with)
and watched us dress for a dance, remarking that
her mother never allowed her to go to such places,
as you got your name up so. (Tact was her strong
suit). Cowering, we went on with our dressing, not
daring to use powder until she had gone. A little
later, missing a pair of boots I had brought for
re-soling, I screwed up a fictitious courage, and left
a note, asking her if she would kindly see whether
they had fallen behind the table. (I knew they
hadn’t, but didn’t dare to put it any other way.)
Came the following courteous response: “If you had
have a looked far enough you would have a found
them. They where behind the table. I am not
hard up for boots.” They were much the worse for
wear, but what could I do ? No, the Australian
servitor will shake hands with the Devil when she
meets him —none more cordially—but the Cockney
will get there —oh, miles before.


Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Lifo A . . . <*
HAS
Established 1849.
MONEY
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
TO LEND ° n Security of Freehold or Leasehold City
and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural °T , n ,r“ rbM Properties, or on Freehold
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Hills of anv*’ f eu” *** Security of Government
Zealand. reasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New
.. 4. n , w ' * IiOW IST CURRENT RATES OF i vtfffqt
‘Ton!°James Burns,' M.L.C.; The HomR 0 J .^lacTM F fw"’ h Dep “ ty^ h T ai ™ an ; The
*s* E F q SS K °- ; H^ A n l€ C^Trf°^ iCk ' UD - FiT
' '•• A - I>X " KAl> nHII - n " REET, SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY, S^etary
Bargains
FROM
ENGLAND
PAWNBROKERS’
Clearance Sale.
SEND AT ONCE FOR OUR
FULL LIST OF
3,500
GENUINE BARGAINS.
BARGAINS
FOR
ALL.
ASTOUNDING VALUE.
Brimming over with money-saving possibilities.
Patronised by Royalty and the Nobility.
Bankisks:
London County & Westminster Bank,
Camberwell Branch, London.
TYf E have every confidence in our abilities to please our Customers, hence our remarkable
otfer of Six Months hree Approval. Examine the articles you may choose at your
own convenience, in your own home, and if you are not delighted and fullv satisfied with the
lngh quality and exceptional value, return them to us within six months and we will
immediately return your deposit.
May we solicit a trial order P Absolute satisfaction guaranteed
or money returned in full.
TERMS OF BUSINESS.-Any Article Sent on Approval, Carriage
Free, on receipt of remittance. Cash refunded in full for goods
not approved and returned us within six months.
Read what “The Christian Age ” says—
“DAVIS Ac Co., of 26 Denmark Hill, have gained
considerable reputation for supplying unredeemed
pledges at very moderate prices. We gather from
their latest Bargain List that great savings ran he
effected by purchasing a second-hand article of
jewellery which has just had enough wear to test
Its value at about one-third the original cost price.
Included in their catalogue are watches by some of
the finest m ikers in the world."
Head what “Great Thoughts” says
lliere cannot exist much doubt as to the intrinsic
value of any advertised article when such advertisers
lire willing to send the Moods advertised on the
Approval System. This system is adopted by
Messrs. J) A \IS Co., and is a singular proof that
Messrs. DAVIS «fc Co. Have every belief in their
ability to please their customers and prove the
genuine nature of their announcements.”
U/f* Field, Race, or Marine Glasses.
/D £3/3/- Military Binocular (by Lefaier),
as supplied to officers in the Army and Navy ;
10 achromatic lenses ; 50 miles range ; shows
ballet mark at 1,000-yds.; saddler made case ;
great bargain ; sacrifice, 14/6.
01 /■ ,J ° wer f l ‘l £4/4/- Binocular Field
Z I / Glasses (by Chevalier) ; 10 lens
magnification power, brilliant definition, over
60 miles range, great depth of focus, large
held of view ; adjusted to the degree
of scientific accuracy; in saddle, made sling
case; tremendous bargain; sacrifice, £1/1/-
QT/fi Powerful £8/8/- Double Draw Bino-
0 I/O culars, 12 lens magnification power
(by Lumiere), as supplied to H.R.H. the Crown
Prince of Greece ; most powerful glass made ;
name of ship can be distinctly read five miles
from shore; quick focus, brilliant field of view,
colourless achromatic crystal lenses, enhanced
stereoscopic effect, great penetration power ; in
solid brown English leather case; sacrifice,£1/17/6
1 0 /C Gent’s heavy 18-ct. Gold-cased
IZ/0 Keyless Leyer Hunter Watch,
improved action (John Forrest, London); 10
years’ warranty; absolutely perfect timekeeper;
also Double Curb Albert, same quality with
handsome Compass attached; all quite indis-
tinguishable from new; complete, sacrifice, 12/6.
-I ft if* Lady’s handsome 18-ct. Gold-cased
I Z/0 Keyless Watch, improved action
(Allen & Co., London); exact timekeeper: 10,
years’ warranty; also long Watch Guard, elegant
design, same quality; together, sacrifice, 12/6.
-I C/ft (Worth £4/4/-). Real Russian Furs.
I J/D Rich, dark sable brown Fur, 8-ft.
long; Granville Stole, deep shaped collar,
beautifully trimmed, 12 tails and heads; large
Grannv Muff matching; together, 15/6.
ftft/C (Worth £5/5/-). Real Russian Furs.
ZZ/0 Rich, dark sable brown, extra long
Princess Stole, trimmed with head and tails at
back and on shoulders; also large animal Muff,
with heads and tails hanging : in perfectly new
condition ; together, great sacrifice, £1/2/6.
ft if* Gent’s fashionable Double Albert,
IZ/D 18-ct. Gold (stamped) filled, curb
pattern, heavv solid links; sacrifice, 12/6.
•t ft /n Lady’s £4/4/- 18-ct. Solid Gold, hall-
I 0/ 0 marked, Diamond and Sapphire
Doublet I lalf-hoop Ring, claw setting, large
faultless stones; sacrifice, 18/6.
7f| / Lady’s £13/13/- 5-Stone Diamond
lU/“ and Sapphire Half-hoop Ring, 18 ct.
Gold, Government hall-marked, claw setting,
containing two large round diamonds of dazzling
whiteness and three beautiful sapphires of
richest quality: sacrifice, £3/10/-
OC 1C Gent’s £4/4/- fashionable Dark Grey
ZD/D Tweed Jacket Suit (bv Stroud,
High-class Tailor) ; splendid quality, latest
West End cut and finish, never worn ; breast
39-in., waist 36-in., length 32J-in.; £1/6/6.
9R/R Lad y’s £5/51- Solid Gold English,
£U/U hall-marked, Keyless Watch, highly
finished jewelled movement, exact timekeeper,
richly engraved : 12 years’ warranty; £1/6/6.
7fl/« Magnificent Gent’s £13/13/- Single
I U' Stone Diamond Ring, exceptionally
fine pure white stone, perfect in every respect,
mounted in 18-ct. Gold, Government hall-
marked, claw setting ; sacrifice, £3/10/-
23 /C Lady’s £5/5/- Solid Gold long Watch
J/ U Guard, handsome and very stylish
in pattern, stamped and guaranteed, in faultless
and new condition ; sacrifice, £1/6/6.
CC/ Gent’s magnificent £11/11/- Solid
Uw/ Gold English, hall-marked, Keyless
I-fever, Centre Seconds, Chronograph Stop
Watch, exam, by celebrated watchmaker (W.
Russell, London); jewelled movement, perfect
reliability in any climate in the world ; timed to
a minute a month ; 20 years' warranty ; 6 months'
trial; great bargain ; sacrifice, £2/15 1-
CQ If* Lady’s magnificent £11/11/- Diamond
will' U and Sapphire Cluster Ring, 18-ct.Gold,
hall-marked ; there are ten white and laultless
diamonds surrounding a superb sapphire of
richest quality ; to appreciate the full beauty of
this Ring it must be seen; sacrifice, £2/19/6.
rtQ/fi Baby’s Long Clothes, superfine
£U/U quality, magnificent £5/5/- parcel,
82 articles, everything required; beautiful
garments ; the perfection of mother’s personal
work ; never worn . great sacrifice, £1/9/6.
«JQ/R Valuable Violin (worth £10/10/-),
perfect condition,labelledStradivarius
Cremona, 1721 ; rich mellow tone, with Bow
and Case, suit professional or soloist: £1/12/6.
■I Q/n (Worth £3/3/-). Choice Expanding
I 0/D Watch Bracelet; finest workman-
ship, most successful ever invented, will fit
and grip any wrist, thereby avoiding all vibration
and ensuring perfect timekeeping; 18-ct. Gold-
cased : 6 months’ trial; sacrifice, 13/6.
■i rt /Q (Worth £1/15/-). Eight superfine quality
I JZi Chemises, Knickers, and Petticoats;
magnificent parcel; sacrifice, 12/9.
QQ/R SP oons an d Forks. (£10/10/- Set).
Oil 0 A1 quality, silver-plated on nickel
silver, stamped maker’s initials, Queen Anne
pattern ; 12 Table, 12 Dessert, 12 Tea Spoons,
12 Table, 12 Dessert Forks p Service 5-doz.;
wonderful bargain, £1/19/6: Half-Set, £1.
-1 A if* Fashionable Curb Chain Padlock
IU/0 Bracelet, with safety chain, solid
links, 18-ct. Gold (stamped) filled, in velvet case;
sacrifice, 10/6; another heavier, 12 ; 6.
f)C/0 (Worth £4/4/-). Twenty-four superfine
£.0/0 quality Nightdresses, Chemises,
Knickers, Petticoats, Combinations, &c.;
tremendous bargain ; sacrifice, £1/6/6.
6/fl Pretty Necklet, with Heart Pendant
/y attached, set Parisian pearls and tur-
■ itioises; elegant design; 18-ct. Gold (stamped)
filled ; in velvet case ; bargain ; sacrifice, 6/9.
DAVIS & CO.
(“?■)
PAWNBROKERS,
26 DENMARK HILL,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
Time spent using
Calvert’s
TOOMI fowder
is time spent well.
Local Chemists
and Stores sell it.
Makers :
F. C. Calvert & Co.,
Manchester, Eng.
For the cleaner the teeth
are kept, of course the
longer they will last and
the better they will look.
HIGH-CLASS
SEMI-HIGHSPEED LATHES
rfh-
Photograph of B%in. x 10 ft. Lathe, with feed shaft in front and interlocking arrangements
so that sliding and screw-cutting motions cannot he engaged at the same time.
All Spindles and Shafts are Ground. Steel Rack and Pinion. Positive
Feeds. Change Speed Gear Box to Feed-shaft in front of Rathe.
Micrometer Adjustment. Interlock to Screw-cutting and Sliding
Motions. Ring Oiled Hearings. All gears, including Change Wheels and
Racks, have Machine-cut Teeth. Gears Guarded. Ball Thrust Washer
to Spindle. Large hole through Spindle.
ALL SIZES STOCKED BY
BENSON BROTHERS
51-53 Drultt Street, Sydney; 60 Queen Street, Melbourne
WE ALSO STOCK
GENUINE HIGH-SPEED MACHINE TOOLS.
No Home Should be Devoid
of Music
The interpretation of delightful music
is no longer exclusive to the trained.
The talking machine is spreading the
influence of music everywhere, from
the palatial city home to the remotest
outpost of the backblocks.
Bring the World’s best music to your
home —there are countless times when
you NEED its subtle, soothing influ-
ence. i
I
THE “CINCH” COSTS ONLY 701-
This is a veritable wonder among talking machines. Everyone who hears it played
is surprised that such a machine can be sold for £3 10s.
The reason is that the “CINCH” has a tremendous world-wide sale —the cost of
production is consequently reduced to a minimum.
Buy the “Cinch” Hornless Zonophone and Double-sided Zonophone Records. No
other machine and records will give similar results for so small an outlay,
Instrument catalogue, complete record lists and name of nearest dealer on request.
The International Zonophone Co. Ltd.,
S. H. & CO., Sole Concessionaires for Australia,
Hoffnung’s Chambers, 163 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Motor Car
Acetylene Generator,
No Danger,
No Failure,
No Rubber Parts,
No Smell,
No Fouling,
No Adjustments,
No Valves to get out of order.
One charging of carbide can be used for months.
The London ’Bus Co. scrapped all their other
Generators and installed the A.L. Generators, after
most severe tests against every other make.
A.L. “ POPULAR ” GENERATORS,
in Brass, lib.-size, 455. ; 21b.-size, 60s.
Write for Pamphlet, giving particulars and
description.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.
Sole Agents, 23 & 25 Hunter Street, Sydney.
DE LUXE MODEL.
“THE LONE HAND
for GOOD STORIES 8 BRIGHT ARTICLES
PRICE SIXPENCE.


Arnott’s Milß Arrowroot Biscuits
"THE CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
Uegal Notices.
| N THE SUPREME COURT OF WESTERN AUS-
-1 TRALIA. —Divorce and Matrimonial Causes.
No. 56 of 1913. BETWEEN ADA ETHEL
HOPKINS, Petitioner, and MORGAN WALTER
HOPKINS, Respondent.
To the above-named Morgan Walter Hopkins.
TAKE NOTICE that a citation has been issued in
this Court citing you to appear and answer the
petition of Ada Ethel Hopkins, of 76 George Street,
West Perth, in the State of Western Australia, who
claims to have been lawfully married to you, praying
for a dissolution of the said marriage and the cus-
tody of Morgan Walter Hopkins, Ruby Dartnell Hop-
kins and Frank Hopkins, infants, the issue of the
said marriage, on the ground that you have without
just cause or excuse wilfully deserted her the said
petitioner, and without any such cause or excuse have
left her continuously deserted for five years and
upwards, and in default of your so appearing you will
not be allowed to address the Court and the Court
will proceed to hear the said petition proved and
pronounce sentence in respect thereto. AND FUR-
THER TAKE NOTICE that for the purpose aforesaid
you are within 30 days after the date of this publica-
tion to attend in person or by your solicitor at the
Central Office of the Supreme Court at Perth, in the
State of Western Australia, and there enter an appear-
ance in a book provided for that purpose.
Dated this 18th day of September, 1913.
(n.s.) F. A. MOSELEY, Registrar.
John Brier Mills, of McNeil Chambers, Barrack
Street, Perth, aforesaid, solicitor for the above-named
petitioner.
I N THE SUPREME COURT OF WESTERN AUS-
-1 TRACI' .—Divorce and Matrimonial Causes.
No. 35 of 1913. BETWEEN WINNIFRED AMELIA
FRANKS, Petitioner, and JOHN WILLIAM FRANKS,
Respondent.
To the above-named John William Franks.
TAKE NOTICE that a citation has been issued in
this Court citing you to appear and answer the
petition of Winnifred Amelia Franks, of 62 Bulwer
Street, Perth, in the State of Western Australia, who
claims to have been lawfully married to you, praying
for a dissolution of the said marriage and the cus-
tody of Sylvia Madge Franks (sometimes known as
Patricia Veronica Franks), an infant, the surviving
child of the said marriage, on the ground that you
have without just cause or excuse wilfully deserted
her the said petitioner, and without any such cause
or excuse have left her continuously deserted
for five years and upwards, and in default
of your so appearing you will not be allowed to
address the Court and the Court will proceed to hear
the said petition proved and pronounce sentence in
respect thereto. AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE
that for the purpose aforesaid you are within 30
days after the date of this publication to attend in
person or by your solicitor at the Central Office of
the Supreme Court at Perth, in the State of Western
Australia, and there enter an appearance in a book
provided for that purpose.
Dated this 19th day of September, 1913.
(L.s.) F. A. MOSELEY, Registrar.
John Brier Mills, of McNeil Chambers, Barrack
Street, Perth, aforesaid, solicitor for the above-named
petitioner.
Government Notices.
Department of Home Affairs,
Melbourne, 2nd October, 1913.
KALGOORLIE TO PORT AUGUSTA
RAILWAY.
Locomotive Engines and Tenders.
TENDERS, addressed to the Secretary,
Department of Home Affairs, Mel-
bourne. will be received up to 11 a.m. on
WEDNESDAY. NOVEMBER 5. 1913, for
the Manufacture. Delivery and Erection in
running order, of
4 Locomotive Engines and Tenders (New’
South Wales “P” Type), Tender
Capacity 4500 Gallons of Water and
approximately 1\ tons Coal.
Specifications will be on view on and after
7th October, 1913, at the undermentioned
offices: —
Commonwealth Railways, 84 William
Street, Melbourne: Commonwealth Works
Director. Customs House, Sydney ; and Com-
monwealth Works Registrars, Brisbane,
Adelaide. Perth and Hobart.
The charge for each copy of Specification
will be £1 Is., which must be paid before
the documents can be issued.
Tenders are to be endorsed “Tender for
Locomotive Engines and Tenders,” and are
to be accompanied by the deposit mentioned
in the Form of Tender.
JOSEPH COOK,
Minister of State for Home Affairs.
Business Announcements.
THE WONDER KNIFE]
The best and handiest Knife ever made.
CUT ROUND HOLES of any size with
leather, wood, &c. f like a punch.
It will!
turn hai
r A good, strongi
serviceable knife, inches )ong v cutting blade inch
vide, finest tempered tool steel. Real buckhorn handle.
Punch blade also useful as a reamer or marlin spike.
Price 3/9, we pay carnage. Your money back in full wfl
it ts not in your opinion the
most useful knife yon have
ever seen. The Union Co.,
299 Elisabeth Street, Melb-
Makes
Hole,
Ac
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wk Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS' HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN'S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all pans of Che world.
THE Best Stories written in Australia
appear in The Lone Hand each month.
Price Gd.
.Sir Lauder Brunton’a
Snake Bite Lancet and Cure
A Simple ami Practical Reifcedy
NEVER FAILS WHEN PROMPTLY USED
Only One Shilling
Carry it in your vest pocket ready for instant use
and you need fear no snake, however deadly. Sir
Lauder Brunton, the famous Royal Physician,
vouches for the genuineness of this treatment, that
| h** i*V6ll hundred# of lives every year I
[in India from cobra and karait venom. The com-
plete outfit is only 2 l /i inches long and about as
thick as a pencil. Full printed directions with
each Lancet. Send Postal Note for 1/- to
The Union Co., 299 Elizabeth Street, Melb.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
NEXT SATURDAY, OCTOBER 11.
QUINLAN GRAND OPERA COMPANY
in a Gala Performance of Wagner’s
THE MAST URSII\ G IMIS.
MONDAY, OCTOBER 13: RIGOLETTO.
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 14: TANNHAUSER.
WEDNESDAY (Mating?) OCTOBER 15: TALES OF
HOFFMANN.
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 15: LA TOSCA.
Til EAT It E It OVA L. SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF THE ARCADIANS.
NEXT SATURDAY,
THE C 1 N G A L E E.
Scenes of Sunny Ceylon.
PRICES: D.C. and O.S. (Reserved and at door), 6/-;
Stalls, 4/-; Amphitheatre till 7.H0, 2/- ; thereafter, 1/-
PLAN AT PALING’S.
DELPHI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction GEORGE WILLOUGHBY.
EVERY EVENING.
GEORGE WILLOUGHBY’S NEW COMPANY,
in the Original and Startling Play, dealing with
The White Slave Traffic and its Dangers,
THE NIGHT SIDE OF LONDON.
PRICES: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/- Early Doors 6d. extra.
PAI. A C E T IIE ATIt E. SYDN E Y.
EVERY EVENING.
THE BERT BAILEY
POPULAR DRAMATIC COMBINATION,
in STEELE RUDD’S
ON OUR SELECTION.
BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
POPULAR PRICES : Dress Circle and Orchestra Stalls
4/-(No Booking Fee) ; Back Stalls, 2/6 ; Gallery, 1/-: Early
Doors 6d. extra (except on Saturdays and Holidays).
A T lON At AMPHITHEATRE. SYDNEY
Managing Director : BEN J. FULLER.
BRENNAN-FULLER’S VAUDEVILLE CIRCUIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HILARY LONG, the Upside down Phenomenon.
CARRIE MOORE, Favorite Comic Opera Star.
GLADYS & ALBER, Eccentric Comedy Entertainers.
THE LESSOS. Sharpshooters and Equilibrists.
THE DUCKWORTHS, Comedy Acrobats.
THE FRANKLINS, Sketch Artists.
PRICES : 3/-, 2/-, 1/6, 1/-
Saturdays and Holidays, 3/-, 2/-, 1/- Plan at Theatre.
G
LACIARIUM AND OLYMPIA,
SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEE—SATURDAY.
DE GROEN’S VICEREGAL ORCHESTRAS.
3d. to 2s. Plans at Nicholson’s (No Extra Fee).
g PENCE K’S LYCEUM, SYDNEY.
AN ORPHAN OF WAR.
The Story of a Boy’s Mission to destroy those who killed
his father.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT,
THE LAST DAYS OF POMPEII.
BOX PLAN AT PACING'S.
MPEB 1 A L ROLLER KINK,
Foot of William Street.
A REFINED KINKING RENDEZVOUS
for
FASTIDIOUS PEOPLE.
NOW OPEN. THREE SESSIONS PER DAY.
GORDON GRANT,
Manager.
R 1 C K A It D S’ TIVOLI T II E A T It K.
Personal Direction Mr. HUGH D. McINTOSH.
FANTON’S ATHLETES, Sensational Aerial Act.
DIAMOND & BEATRICE, Talented Insirumentalists.
LILLIE LANGTRY, London’s Popular Comedienne.
HENRI FRENCH, the Intoxicated Genius.
EARLE REYNOLDS & NELLIE DONEGAN, Skaters.
4 QUAINT Q’s, Humorous Burlesque Artists.
BELLORA. VAUDE & VERNE.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
Prices: 5/-, 4/- and 1/-
OP Elt A II OUS E. M ELBOUItNE.
Personal Direction Mr. HUGH D. McINTOSH.
MERIAN’S ACTING DOGS.
FRANK PARISH, Sensational Novelty Dancer.
JULIA GONZALES, Intrepid Trapezist.
THE PRIMROSE FOUR, Ragtime Specialists.
GREAT GOLDEN TROUPE OF RUSSIAN DANCERS,
SINGERS AND INSTRUMENTALISTS.
WILLIAMS and RANKIN, the Yankee Doodle Duo.
ALBERTO MARINI, Italian Tenor.
Plan at Allan’s. iWPRICES—4s., 35., 25., Is.
“f"HE KING’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
1 Sole Lessee and Manager: Wiluam Anderson.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Reappearance of the Favorite
MISS EUGENIE DUGGAN,
Supported by
11. R. ROBERTS,
In the Modern, Up-to-date Drama,
THE CONFESSION.
POPULAR PRICES. PLANS AT ALLAN’S.
DRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
r Sole Proprietors . . GEO. WILLOUGHBY LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, OCTOBER 11.
Geo. Willoughby Ltd. presents the Thrilling and
Novel Dramatic Sensation,
QUEEN OF THE WHITE SLAVES.
ADMISSION: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/- Plan r.t Pianola Co.
|_l ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE!
■■ Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, OCTOBER 11,
LEWIS WALLER,
together with
MISS MADGE TITHERADGE
and a complete company in
HEN It Y Y.
Plan at Allan’s. D.C. and Reserved Stalls, 6/-
H E A T K E ROYAL. MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, OCTOBER 11
Reappearance of FRED NIBLO, supported by a
Distinguished Company, in
EXCUSE ME.
PRICES: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-
Stalls, 4/-. Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
R
LOCAL'
llffljfl
At?'*
PATRIOTISM
| .Your
Aim?
Then have a JHOT
S
at smoking
The Australian Tobacco.
Sw
1
1
X
The rider
who likes a neat, compact saddle with ample provision
for comfort will appreciate our model 8302. It is
clean-cut and trim in appearance, gives a low riding posi-
tion, and the stranded springs and four-wire framing yield
a pleasing resiliency sufficient to absorb all road shocks.
Naturally, being a Brooks, it is scientifically shaped and
beautifully made. An extremely pretty and comfortable
saddle. We also make a model 8302 L for ladies.
BROOKS
OF ALL
DEALERS
H E
T
Lessees .
Direction
UDITORIxjM
MELBOURNE.
Messrs. J. & N. TATT
.BIBLICAL BIOGRAPHS LTD
EVERY AFTERNOON AT 2.30.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
FROM MAISGER TO CROSS
GRAND ORGAN ACCOMPANIMENT.
Excerpts from “The Messiah’’ by the
VICTORIAN FESTIVAL CHOIR.
Appropriate Incidental Music by
FULL SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA
PRICES: 3/-, 2/- and 1/- PLANS AT ALLANS
Matinge Prices, 2/-, 1/- and 6d. Children half-price
■yi KLISOURNE REPERTORY THEATKp
Direction .. GREGAN McMAHON.
At the
NATIONAL THEATRE, BOURIvE STREET,
on
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 18, at 8 p.m.
John Galsworthy’s Great Labor v. Capital Play,
8 T E I Y E.
Box Plans at Pianola Co. and Book Lovers’
Library open next Saturday.
Direction amalgamated"' pictikis
LTD.
MELBOURNE’S LATEST AND FINEST PICTURE
PALACE,
THE MAJESTIC THEATRE.
FLINDERS STREET, Opposite Princes Bridge Station.
CONTINUOUS MATINEES DAILY.
Evening Prices: 2/-, 1/6, 1/- and 6d. Plan at Allan’s.
OLYMPIA. OLYMPIA.
L Y M P I A. MELBOURNE.
(Just across Princes Bridge).
WHERE ARE TO BE SEEN THE UNRIVALLED
SPENCER’S PICTURES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS AT 2.30.
EVERY NIGHT AT 8.
\Af E S T’S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
the best WEST’S PICTURES™™
OF ALL LIMITED. OF ALL
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8. Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays,
and All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be seen
at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices—6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
Birch & carroll
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office: ROTHWELL CHAMBERS, BRISBANE.
Victoria Racing Club,
Flemington.
Cup Week.
DERBY DAY, NOVEMBER 1.
COP DAY, NOVEMBER 4.
OAKS DAY, NOVEMBER 6.
STEEPLECHASE DAY, NOVEMBER 8.
KECOK.) ENTRIES.
Stakes will amount to £32,000.
Another New Grand Stand and Other
Magnificent Improvements will be Opened
for the First Time.
The Arrangements are now the Most
Complete in the World.
H. BYRON MOORE,
Secretary.
VISIT
THE
Chamber of Manufactures
Great
All-Australian
Exhibition
EXHIBITION BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
OPEN AFTERNOONS & EVENINGS.
All Previous Exhibitions Eclipsed'
6d. ADMITS.
F. L. W. ASHBY, Manager


FOR ECZEMAS
AND RASHES
HU
n
Use
CUTICIMSOAP
The itching, burning, suffering and
loss of sleep caused by eczemas,
rashes and irritations of the skin
and scalp are at once relieved and
permanent skin health restored in
most cases by warm baths with
Cuticura Soap followed by gentle
applications of Cuticura Ointment.
Cuticura Soap and Ointment are sold throughout
the world. A liberal sample of each, with 32-page
booklet on the care and treatment of the akin and
scalp, sent post-free. Address R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N. S. W.
Drives Sallowness
from the Skin
Ladies, imperfect complexion is caused by
a sluggish liver. A few days’ treatment with
CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER PILLS will do
more to clean up the skin
than all the beauty
creams in creation.
Cures constipation,
unclogs the liver,
ends indigestion,
biliousness and
di z z i n e s s.
Purely vege-
table, never'
fail. 1
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
The GENUINE must bear signature
Carters
L
lITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
AN INTERESTING
EXPERIMENT.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey Hairs
make, just lay a piece of paper over each of the two
halves of the above portrait. The Grey ‘half will
then be seen to have the appearance of 45 years ot
age, whereas the other half looks only 30. L>r.
Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican .Walnut Stain will make
all those years of difference if you are grey or prema-
turely grey. It is perfectly harmless, easy to apply,
and will quickly restore the Hair to the natural shade
of youth, or younger years.
Dr. B. ALLEN’S (u.s.a.>
Mexican WALNUT STAIN
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suitable
for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or Moustache.
CARBIDE.
For First’Class
Results use
Best
PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it be obtamed
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
PAGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
r :.ty or country should miss.
J \ JJiQ
• -»«» :
Mather 8 Platt
High Lift
Turbine Pump
and
Electric Motor.
The Pumps of High Efficiency
and Low First Cost
The fact that MATHER & PLATT Tumps are the outcome of 38 years
of pump-building experience is a point that can be considered well by the
buyer of pumping machinery.
If these Pumps were not right—you w T ould know it —their Makers would
know it —after 38 years.
Mather Platt High
Lift Turbine Pumps
have stood the test.
Engineers prefer them, because they give a regular flow and because of
their freedom from water hammer.
There is no necessity for air vessels, and the motion being rotary there is
no shock due to reciprocating parts ; for the same reason these pumps are
particularly suitable for driving by electric motor.
Are not these advantages at least worth looking into? It will pay you to
get IfULL details. Write for Booklet and full particulars NOW.
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA :
GIBSON, BATTLE & GO. LTD
535 Kent .Street, SYDNEY
480 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Buyers of
HORROCKSES’
LONGCLOTHS and
MADAPOLAMS
LATEST VICTORY
GRAND PRIZE
BRUSSELS
EXHIBITION, 1910
have a guarantee if they will see
HORROCKSES’ name on Selvedge that they
are getting the very best that the Old Country
Produces.
Decline all Substitutes
Sold by all Fir*t-Cla*» Draper* and Storekeeper*,
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices In
England—
-1/14, 2/9 & 4 b.
•ffltlcrcW*
Made ip England.
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks et
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
‘he cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acta like a charm In
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY.
The “Swan-Safety” is simpler and more reliable than any
other pen made; may be carried in any position, in any pocket,
handbag or trunk, without fear of leakage; with the “ladder ’
feed, erratic working is out of the question; the nib is the
product of over 60 years’ experience; the holder is beautifully
balanced and holds a good supply of ink.
*WA
POWNTPBN.
Sold by all
Stationers.
Catalogue Free on Bequest
MABIE, TODD & CO., London, W.C.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only) :
J. A. BURKE, S Primrose Buildings, 255aGeorge S
Sydney
A Trial Will
Convince You
that Pebeco Tooth Paste is different from, and better than,
ordinary dentifrices. Are you sure you derive from your
present dentifrice the greatest possible benefit? The fact
that dentists and doctors have recommended Pebeco for 20
years is a guarantee of its real worth. You yourself will
recognise its excellent properties if you try it.
OBTAINABLE ALL CHEMISTS.
Trial Tube with useful Book free for three penny stamps,
on application to the Sole Agent:—
G. ARNOLD
(Dept. M), 6 O’Connell Street, Sydney
(WHOLESALE ONLY). [2
The Inky Way.
Edward Turner, of Turner and Henderson, the
doyen of Sydney printers and booksellers, has been
very ill at his Mountain home, Wentworth Falls, but
is showing signs of improvement. His son-in-law,»
Horace Rogers, the oldest member of the literary
staff of S. M. Herald, has been seriously ill, too, but
is likewise recovering. Mr. Turner, some 50 years
ago, established himself in Hunter-street, where in
September, 1870, he and five other shopkeepers were
burned out. After the fire he ‘put up his shingle
on the corner of Little Hunter-street, where subse-
quently the firm built the place they now occupy.
“Hamer”: The Sydney Labor daily is unlikely to
get going before half-way through next year. The
problem is chiefly one of finance. The big unions
have subscribed £.86,000, and a building from which
the paper will he issued has been erected. A lot
more has been promised, but the trouble is that the
promisers are none too flush. The organisers and so on
of the less affluent unions have found the levies in-
fernally hard to collect, as is so often the case when
there are hardly any funds to levy on. The unions
which have already subscribed would probably find
the balance of cashr-required to get out some sort of
daily paper very readily if they were certain that it
would be a morning affair. An evening paper appeals
to them neither as business men nor as political
propagandists. On the Other hand, a morning paper
would cost a parlous quantity of money to found,
and, with an eye on former failures, the responsible
officials want to” start Labor’s journal in a position to
fight at a loss for several years.
“A.L.8.”: Two pressmen were prominent at the
Anglican Congress—L. V. Biggs, of Melb. Age, and
E. J. Dunn, of Brisbane Daily Standard. Dunn
was one of the four contributors of the “Social Un-
rest” papers; the Dean of Melbourne, Bishop Mercer
and the Rev. H. N. Baker were the others. Finding
himself the solitary layman on the platform that
evening, Dunn apologised for mislaying his gaiters
and having his collar buttoned up in front; and
neither' bishops nor deans spoiled the mild joke by
showing any signs of resentment. #
“Spasmode”: The London pearl necklace affair stole
its plot from a tale called “Sparks,” published by
The Bulletin not long ago. In “Sparks a port-
manteau belonging to a London millionaire was care-
lessly placed on the roof of his carriage, whence it
was stolen by one Dobcross. It contained valuable
diamonds wrapped in clothing. Ikey Solomon, a
fence, bought the lot for a few shillings, and
treated the diamonds, or “sparks,’ as paste. it
would be interesting to trace the very many cases
in which fiction has forecast reality. "lhe central
incident of Payn’s “Lost Sir Massingberd was criti-
cised as absurd, but actually occurred afterwards.
Dickens’s Miss Havisham, in “Great Expectations,
was called ridiculous, and does not appear to have
had any real base. Yet two cases have since occurred
in London of the same kind of thing, the eccentric
in one instance being a man. Nor does it appear that
these people were influenced by the book.
From London: The English Institute of Journalists
has been holding its annual conference at York.
President Robert Donald, editor of the London Daily
Chronicle, devoted his opening address to Ne
Forces in Journalism and the Newspaper of the
Future.” The “new forces” were combines and com_
mercialism. Corporations had taken „ th i e rl
individual ownership ; nine-tenths of the daily papers
now belonged to big companies. Twenty years ago
the London stock list did not contain a single news-
paper corporation ; now there are 12, rp P re «‘’' tl Jig
many millions of capital. The change was bad for
the working journalists, inasmuch as colossal syndi-
cates controlling a large number of newspapers all
over thT country operated in the direction of ‘ doing
away with many great personal forces in Journalism,
nnp nf the younger Fairfaxes, of the S. M. llrrald,
was the Australian representative at the conference.
He read a paper advocating a School of Journalism,
while confessing that, as likely as not, the most use-
ful men would still be those who never saw the
inside of any college whatever. ,
“Locust” (from Paris! : I like the French descrip-
tive touch in dealing with commonplace events. It
rive, r, “ rpore'p Bull’s police-court reports in
reminds me of George m, n s ... running
the old, brief days when W. II Traill.was naming
the Star in Sydney. Here is a bit ot it irom me
Matin (free translation) : “The hour was symbolical.
rVnT rlarioned their victorious M.
Sfort tS of police, mounted yesterday
.’ of a house, boulevard de Stras-
burg" His object was to ascertain the persistence^ in
Ms infidelity of M. Georges Frerot, an ardent barber
of 3 " years, and the continual presence in the con-
■ 6 \ Jnmicile of Camille Nodot, a draper s assist-
ant Madame Frerot had thus decided. Five floors
mounted Three knocks, sonorous, grave, resound-
™g " ‘Open in the name’of the law !’ No response
Onlv the street noises appropriate to the hour. At
r y a 'ioor half yawned. The gracious silhouette of
a brunette of 22 years offered itself in all its fresh-
ness to the roving eye of the commissaire ‘You live
I wrifh \f Frerot, mademoiselle? Not at an,
here with M. rerot m se]f ,- M. Lefort
nlonS Lel the rooms They were empty. He was
3 MIS'" ,!7=Mf
SS, KeS r.'i.’TS 5'"”%“;
Georges rre Hellas. ‘lt is necessary that
herds of the an q inspector. ‘Not on your
you, come > other *y ou w j]i take me to gaol.’
life, rf (* mnossible to convince him that it was only
It was er ifi ca tion that was intended. M. Lefort
an a Mademoiselle* to follow him to the coffimis-
sariat Then M. Frerot, seeing the disappearance of
m ffimtv descended rapidly and was served with a
Tn’constancy, patent and notorious. One must
no more jest with justice than with love.
THE SPURNING OF SAIREY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
One does not like to suggest that the grievances
of State members are slowly falling from them, and
that their political hobby-horses are becoming old
and worn.— Granny Argus, tremulously.
Ho dear! I dassn’t dare to think
Of all the draughts o’ printers’ ink,
An’ Freetrade elo’es, an’ Tory hats,
I guv’ them Parliament’ry brats!
I bottle-fed ’em hup on spites,
An’ crammed ’em with Provinshul Rights,
An’ dosed ’em till they couldn’t chirrup
With Granny Argus’ Soothin’ Syrup!
Then w’en they grows a bit, o’ course,
I makes ’em each a ’obby-’orse—
And names ’em “States” —lawks wot a noise
They made, them youngsters, with their toys!
Each wild and bragian little brother
Would set his ’oss agin the other,
An’ claw each other’s ’air, an’ fight
All day—an’ ’arf the blessed night.
My grashus! warn’t it sweet an’ cheerin’
To see ’em profit by my rearin’ ?
But some’ow now their dash is gone:
They’ve one an’ all put trousers on,
And growed in brains and size and health ;
They talks about the “Commonwealth” ;
They won’t wear bibs an’ baby-feeders:
They sneers quite open at my leaders,
And says, “Why, Gran’, you’ve doped yourself 1
Wot’s this upon the mantel-shelf?”
(My Tory teapot, tightly cloged,
I sip when I am so dispoged.)
“It’s States-Rights Gin!” (I must confedge
It is!) “It’s time you took the pledge
And gave up brewin’, like a witch,
Ole Petriana myths an’ sich,
An’ cookin’ ’arf-untruths on griddles!”
Me! —wot was reared on taradiddles,
An’ always found ’em efficacious! !
Ho dear ! Ho Lor ! ! Ho Goodness Grashus !! 1
VICTORIA.
SAIREY EV’RYMORNIN'.


SPORTING RIFLES
of Reliability and Accuracy.
“WINCHESTER,” Single Shot, 1902 Model,
22 Cal. Him Fire, peep or V sights, scroll
trigger guard, rubber heel plate,
weight 2flb. JoSm © Cf.
The above Rifle, fitted with sporting ladder rear sight,
Postage—l/6 N.S.W., 2/8 Inter-State.
20/-
THE MAINE
Pifie
si
tSheu/ing Pi fie Apart
‘THE MAINE” S.S. Rifle
designed for 22 short, long, or extra long cartridges, Rim Fire. It
is a take-down, and can be taken apart easily and quickly, by simply
unscrewing the thumb-screw located underneath the fore arm. The action
used on this rifle is-of the safety bolt type, and is exceedingly simple, con-
sisting of very few parts. The barrel is round, 18in. long, bored and rifled
with the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed
accurate to 300yds. ; weight 31b., fitted with plain V back
sight
Or with Winchester Sliding Sights to 300yds.
Postage on one Rifle—l/3 N.S.W. ; 2/2 Inter-State.
12/6
151-
mam
Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906 Model,
16 shot, 20in. round barrel, plain trigger, straight grip, slide action,
for 22 short, long or long rifle cartridges. si
Postage—2/- N.S.W., 3/8 Inter-State. 4-2 jK>
BAYARD SEMI-AUTOMATIC RIFLE,
?oi l9 ' - R°"nd Steel Barrel, length over all
o8 2 in., weight 3flb., handles short or ms*
long cartridges, lif/ O.
Postage—l/6 N.S.W., 2/8 Inter-State.
GUN and
RIFLE
REPAIRS
a Speciality.
Send for ogr p f j ce Lj S |
of Guns, Rifles,
Ammunition, etc.
Post Free, Anywhere.
Sir
Stevens’ “FAVORITE,”
22 W.R.F., or 22 Calibre Rim Fire, half-octagon 22in. barrel,
case-hardened frame, solid breech block, take down action, open front and rear
sights, weight b. Postage—l/9 N.S.W., 3/2 Inter-State 2216
We can supply the above Rifles fitted with Beach Combination Front Sight and Vernier bit '
25 or 32 Rim Fire Calibres, same description as above, 2/6 each ext" ’ 5/ "
SmS
“ Winchester " Single Shot
Rifle, 1904 Model,
for 22 short or long rim fire cartridges, 21in. heavy
round'Steel barrel, plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight, length of rifle over-
all, 37£in., bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip,
which will not tarnish ; weight, about 41b.
Postage—l/9 N.S.W. ; 3/2 Inter-State.
245. 6d.
MICK SIMMONS LTD.
Head Depot: Haymarket, Sydney, N.S.W.
Branches: CITY, SUBURBS and NEWCASTLE.
PUMPS WATER
DAY AND NIGHT
AUTOMATICALLY.
GET OUR FREE TRIAL
OFFER.
f RIFE
RAM'
Low in first cost, easy to instal, no expense to operate, any
capacity desired for Country Homes, Farms, Dairies,
Cardens, Irrigation, Town Plants, Railroad Tanks, etc.
RIFE HYDRAULIC RAMS
RAISE WATER 30 FEET for EVERY FOOT OF FALL.
Satisfaction Guaranteed. Over 7000 in use.
If there is a stream, spring or pond within a mile-
WRiTE FOR FREE PLANS and BOOK.
2613 Trinity Bldg. RIFE ENGINE CO. New York.
WILL ANDRADE for MAGIC.
Dr. Thomas Faulkner’s
BOOR OF NATURE
and ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE,
3/0.
New 1912 Edition,
Enlarged, 32 Extra
Plates, illustrating
Female Anatomy,
handsome Cloth Cover,
51“ Post Free.
Write for Descriptive
Circular of Contents,
post free anywhere.
Superb Virility of Man-
hood, by Bernard Mac-
fadden; simple home
methods tor curing
weaknesses of men, 5/4 ;
Macfadden’s Sweethearts
for Life; life’s greatest
pleasure secured by ob-
serving highest human
instincts, 5/4; Macfad-
den’s Building Vital
Power, 5/4; Health,
Beauty, Sexuality, 5/4 ;
Strength from Eating,
5/4 ; Macfadden’s Devel-
oping Muscular Power,
5/4 ; Science of Muscu-
lar Development, 5/4 ;
Superb Womanhood,
5/4 ; Macfadden’s Physi-
cal Culture v. Consump-
tion, and Value of Air in
Strength-building, com-
plete, 2/2. AND ANY
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
Marvellously Simple ! Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying-and Van-
ishing Billiard Balls.
Produced from no-
where, appearing at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Com-
plete with Poll In-
structions (enabling
the merest amateur
to perform it), 1/6 ;
posted, 2/-
T wo - from -Five
Card Trick. Another
startler, introducing
something quite new
in magic. Price 6d.;
post free, Bd.
The Above Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post free any-
where, with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2/6.
BOOK YOU WANT. Mention The Bulletin.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
Catalogues
FREE.
201 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
Reduce the Cost of Trustee Administration by appointing .
THE PERMANENT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
LIMITED,
TRUSTEE COMPANY
17 O'Connel! St.,
SYDNEY.
Incorporated 1888 bj’ Special Act ol Parliament to act a*
Trustees, Executors, Attorneys, Agents, Etc.
ESTATES, PROPERTIES, FUNDS, Etc., MANAGED EFFICIENTLY AND ECONOMICALLY.
Full Particulars on Application. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
FARQUHAR’S
Agricultural Machines
are the most economical because the first cost is
the only cost, and as quality is the prime factor
in their construction they give the longest and
best service, and eventually prove themselves
the least expensive.
We manufacture Engines, Boilers, Traction
Engines, Saw Mills, Horse Powers, Plows,
Harrows, Cultivators, Corn Planters,
Cotton Planters, Grain Drills, Potato
Diggers, Corn Shellers, Store Trucks, etc.
Write for Free Illustrated Catalogues.
Correspondence in all languages.
Cable Address : “ FENANKLE,” New York.
A. B. FARQUHAR & GO.,
Cotton Exchange Building,
NEW YORK, U.S.A.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1913 edition, 2s 6d posted. Mkrrik
England, 6d. How to Gut Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine's Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth. 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handyrook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Games,
Is. Fortune-Telling hy Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty's
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life.
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
38 6d. Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and SYrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is 6d.
58
%
■
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos 400 Illustrations. 1248 Fayes.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and snows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Centurv edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH. -m§
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS-LON E
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Skcrkts and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to \ amp on Piano. Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for ail Gaines), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River.. 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. The White Slave Traffic, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easj-, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, is • post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d
Complete Bookkeeping. 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
os 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes. 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying- more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established tS I tars.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
Write lor my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IX STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Thicks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, -s •
Aristotle, 3/6. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems, complete,
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions or „
King, Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. ®" CB ,
History Court of England, Is 3d post.
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, is -al
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, hey
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. \? sr „, ns .
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7*i ft V
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevassks Advicb to
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget box
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d P 0 f ” d
Bennarr Macfadden’s Works, all at 5s P
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers ani
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife s ® KV J
ls2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, lspost-
Recitations and Readings, Is ou. hKRVOus«
Its Cure, Is 2d posted Wkbstos
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 » , 4
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why P a J DvNi .
guineas). Bootmaking and’ r ®p ale J? ’ g ’ S Universal
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moork s n
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 P*|“-
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secretsof com .
is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and mu
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of V y
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE


GLEBE SOCCER FOOTBALL CLUB
who have trained with
REXONA,
the Rapid
Healer.
29th July, 1913.
REXONA PROPRIETARY COMPANY,
Sydney, N.S.W.
We, the undersigned members of the Glebe Soccer Football Club have very much
pleasure indeed in writing to you in respect to your Rexona Ointment. We have been
constantly using Rexona for some months past, both in our Training Rooms and on
the Football Field, and find that it does everything and more than what is claimed for
In the Club Room we use it for massaging after training operations, and can
safely say there is nothing we have tried yet that so speedily takes the stiffness out of
tired or strained muscles as Rexona, the Rapid Healer.
We also And it invaluable on the Football Field, where bruises, abrasions and
lacerations are frequently received as the result of a strenuous game.
Wishing Rexona the success it deserves,
We are,
~ Very truly yours,
w t ufnhRNICK (Manager), E. LUKEMAN (Referee), J. McGEE (Hon. Treas. and
SelSf j CHRISTIE (Vice-Capt.), C. COUCHER (President), E. HALE R.
KEEEY A AGNEW (Vice-Pres.), G. STONE, E. TEASEL, J. COLLINS, F. STOREY
(Capt.),’ E. BRAYNS, J. HILL, G. SANTRY, G. BUCKLEY.
Ponthall nlavers everywhere will find Rexona of the greatest use in the training-room. It
• invaluable as a rub-down for strained and tired muscles, and will rapidly heal all the many
nVa lnd bruises acquired in the football field. If you have not already tried Rexona, send us your
and address and we will send by return post a sample pot gratis. Rexona is sold every-
name and °^f, s ' a "„ t t 1/6 or j n large pots, holding nearly four times the quantity, at 3/-,
where in tnangular pots sen £ p £ st ' free , upon receipt of the price, by the Rexona
Proprietary Company, 15 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
0
o
o
THE RAPID HEALER
The Australian
Magazine.
THE LONE HANP
The National
Honthly, 6d.
SCHUTE, BELL, &, Co., Ltd.,
SELL WOOL 8c SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HOLLOWAY’S
Pills <a Ointment
A TRIAL of HOLLOWAY'S PILLS has meant
The Dawning'®/-Brighter Day
to many a sufferer from liver, kidney and stomach
troubles* For over three-score years and ten they
have been supreme in all cases of biliousness,
headache, indigestion, depression and other com-
plaints which usually arise from constipation*
You should also use HOLLOWAY S OINT-
MENT, which possesses remarkable healing
virtues in cases of skin affections and sores,
rheumatism, lumbago* sciatica, etc* See to
it that you always have a box and pot handy*
To be obtained from all Chemists, Stores,
Manufactured only at
113 SOUTHWARK ST. (late 78 New Oxford St.), LONDON, S.E.
ROADS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ROADS, ’a’ roads, V roads, V roads
(Yaller sun ’n’ yaller moon),
Like a pair uv thirsty toads
Searchin’ for a lost lagoon
Me ’n’ “Bags” go orl the day ;
Crorlin’ up ’n’ crorlin’ down ;
Not a blanky word to say,
Roads ’n’ roads, orl burnt ’n’ brown.
Roads ’n’ roads ; to- God. you’d swear
Roads ’n’ me ’n’ “Bags” wuz one ;
’Ere ’n’ there ’n’ everywhere
Through the flies ’n’ dust ’n’ sun.
Maybe we’ll be sorry when
Time will come to pass in cheques ;
No more roads in this world then....
’Ope there’s some roads in the nex’!
On the Road.
KANGAROOKABURRA.
Ben Tucker (Unwashed).
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THIS is the story of an Archimedian
lever, of the squared compositor who
bent it double, of the manner in
which it was straightened out again, and of
the wicked and designing person who was
struck by the rebound.
It is a tale, further, with some partial re-
ference to a great danger that was side-
stepped, to the Decline and Fall of the
Roman Empire, and to the spread of the
cattle tick in Queensland.
Last month there appeared in the Satur-
day’s issue of the Banner, printed and
published by Joseph Bugden, of Moore-
street, Nobby, the following purposeless but,
nevertheless, malignant libel, contained in a
leading article, headed “The Tick Menace .
In regard to the further spread of ticks, Mr. Ben-
jamin Tucker, the official in charge, should, in his
own interests as well as the interests of stock-
owners, personally wash at the dip every day, .mas-
much as there is always the danger of insufficiently
dipped stock again becoming infested. This reason-
able attention to an undoubted public duty on his
part would certainly protect the surrounding clean
stockowners.
When I arrived at the office that morning
—my progress down the street had been
slow owing to the ribaldry of citizens and
the frequent necessity for explanatory re-
proof—the place looked as though a “disas-
trous typhoon,” to use one of our stock
headlines, had swept it. Old copy and
proof-sheets littered the floor in a mannei
suggestive of a stage snowstorm that had
got misplaced. After a violent interview
with the staff, I asked where the boss was.
The long foreman was in a disagreeable
humor, and tartly told me to follow the
paper-chase. , ~
As I entered Bugden’s office, a wild, gesti-
culating, frenzied figure brandished a paper,
and yelled stridently : , _
“ ‘Watch,’ I wrote, not ‘wash. Do you
hear, ‘watch.’ ” . (i
“Of course,” I remarked, soothingly, no
one doubts it.” Then I added, callously,
“Anyway, Ben Tucker is not on our sub-
scription list, so it doesn’t matter a conti-
nental whether you urged him to watch oi
‘wash.’ Besides you’ve got your copy to
prove” , ,
“Copy!” he shouted. “No; the copy’s gone,
and so has that damned dissipated composi-
tor you engaged yesterday.”
“Dear me!” I murmured. Both the copy
and the compositor gone. There is certainly
some mystery here.” Then I added, brightly,
“Sit down, and we'll solve the problem by a
process of elimination.”
“Process of what'?” he asked angrily.
“Elimination,” I repeated. Now. y° u d
better sit down. That’s right. Elimination,
Mr. Bugden. is the soundest principle in
er—logic. Suppose we make a start both
of us. Of course, Mr. Bugden, you yourself
are at once eliminated.” ■ ■
Bugden glared at me a trifle suspiciously,
and grunted that he had always disliked m \
literary style on the paper. lhe English
language, he said, was good enough tor him.
It was on my lips to retort that in this same
morning’s issue he had headed an article
anent a round-up of unregistered goats,
Coup d’Etat,” but I refrained. The time
was not ripe. . ... ..
“I have just been making inquiries in the
composing room,” I continued, ‘and hnd tnai
the new compositor set up and corrected
your article on ticks. That eliminates th
rest of the staff. Further, the total elimina-
tion of the comp, himself, as you infer, is
additional proof, if that were needed, ol hi
complicity. Still, that is only half the jod.
What we want to do, again by the process
of elimination, is to discover who in-
spired” , „
“ ‘Squared,’ you mean,” interrupted Bug-
den, brutally. r,..,,
“Well, if you like to put it that way. > Still,
the expression is hardly so refined, or so
“Chop it off right there,” growled Bug-
den. Then he waved his whiskers at me.
“The plain, outstanding, bald-headed fact is
that I saw yesterday your incompetent dis-
sipated comp, talking earnestly with Dobson,
of the Express.”
“Where? Outside a pub?”
Bugden nodded savagely.
“Well, you know, there’s nothing very
uncommon in Dobson standing outside a
pub, is there?” _ .. T ~
“Ain’t there I” blithered Bugden. I tell
you Dobson was standing with the new
comp.—the comp, that’s gone—rdamn it,
don’t you catch on?” . ,
And then the shutter in my brain clicked
and I got the whole picture clear-cut and
strong. I glanced quickly over to the man-
telpiece, upon which rested • a tattered,
stained newspaper—an old copy of the Ex-
press. For three years past it had been
Bugden’s foolish delight to exhibit tb s copy
of the Express to subscribers, and to laugh
the loud laugh of the horse-buyer when tney
read the sentence encircled by blue pencil,
“Miss Smithers created quite a furore by
an inimitable reading from the immoral
Shakspeare.” It was a hoary, decrepit old
error, and was first nailed by a proof-reader
in absurd clothes in Caxton’s day. And it
has been pretty well nailed by proof-readers
ever since. But it got past the Express
once, and Bugden had fastened on to it like
a dog on to a beef-steak.
I shifted in my chair, and caught Bug-
den’s troubled gaze.
“Perhaps,” 1 said, falteringly; “perhaps
the Express — l mean Dobson —will abstain
—is unaware”
“Abstain,” boomed Bugden. “Dobson un-
aware ! Why, Dobson, he knows, pie
knows, HE KNOWS !”
I rose softly to leave, while Bugden, in a
paroxysm of vexation, frantically scissored
out the metal market quotation and shrieked
to me to see that it was added to the stock
report.
Dobson knew all right. The next issue of
the Express flamed with just and righteous
anger against the Banner and its “Das-
tardly Insult to a Respectable Official.” As
befitted an agricultural paper, Dobson raked
us fore and aft, and every tooth of the rake
scored deeply. He indignantly asked if the
community had no protection - from such
scurrilous papers as the Banner, and the
malice of its owner. But what w T as more
portentous—more significant—was the way
Dobson clamored, in an impersonal sort of
way, of course, for some “condign punish-
ment” of the writer of such a spiteful and
venomous insult.
During the next few days the Banner
office had a severe attack of the malady
known as “weird expectancy.” It was
really charming how many of our dearest
friends dropped in to cheer us up. They
related, with gusto, tales of Ben Tucker’s
exploits before he got religion—how he
nearly slew four men with his stirrup-iron
during an election brawl, how he took pos-
session of McGuire’s pub for a whole day
and defied a dozen navvies to get in ; what
happened to Stevenson’s barn when Steven-
son got the better of Ben in a deal over a
line of steers, and so on. Of course they
would explain that all this happened before
Ben reformed. And then someone would
add, in a casual sort of way, that he hadn’t
seen Ben at church for quite a long time.
One particular friend of Bugden’s compared
the coming down of Ben Tucker from the
mountains to the coming down of the waters
at Lodore —-only more so.
Yet, after all, Ben came down in a very
prosaic manner. He merely dropped in with
a scowl, and shut the door. He also locked
it. Then he stood his buggy-whip up in the
corner, unpleasantly near his right hand.
There was a ruthless determination about
Ben’s every movement that made my back
hair prickle up. As for Bugden, he was in
a state of suspended animation. Then Ben
spoke slowly and deliberately.
“This ’ere paper” (he had the Express
in his hand) “says yer ’ave insulted me.
Did yer?”
“Er—no, that is, I can —I can explain,’
stammered Bugden, coming to life somewhat.
“I won’t let any man insult me,” said
Ben still more slowly, “without” (he read
from the paper) “pro-tec-ing th’ com-munity
an’ in-flick-ing con-con”-
“Condign, condign,” interrupted Bugden
hastily. “It means an apology. Yes, of
course, we will give you an ample apology —
a public apology.”
“ ’Pology,” roared Ben. “What for !
Bugden sparred wildly for time. Then
he spluttered, “We —the Banner, you know
Mr. Tucker—we all agree that cleanliness
is—ah—next to godliness. And, of course,
being yourself a godly man, you—er—you,
as a religious duty, also wash yourself.
“But I don’t,” stormed Ben. “I don t
wash meself. The paper’s right. Yer ave
insulted me.” . ,
Ben raised himself threateningly, and took
a half-step toward? the corner.
It was at this stage that I got m with
that little bit of diplomacy upon which I
still pride myself. . , „ T , ,
“Mr. Tucker is quite right, I broke in
smoothly. “I never wash either.
“Eh,” said Ben, somewhat mollmed,
y “No,” I interrupted. “Nor does Mr.
Bugden. Do you?” .
The proprietor of the Banner squirmed,
and confessed he didn’t.
“And, what’s more,” said I, warming up,
“we both have the highest authority for not
washing ourselves. Did you ever hear ot
the Decline and Fall of the Roman
“The Papists, eh?” said Ben, leaning for-
ward eagerly. , ~ ,
“Yes, the Romans. How they declined—
turned out wasters, you know—and fell into
sin, horse-stealing, resisting the police, and
that sort of thing. I will read you Gib;
bon’s most famous passage on that matter.
“This will interest you, broke in Bug-
den, with an attempt to recover his self-
respect as boss in his own office. This
will interest you as a Protestant a Bap-
S I could have choked Bugden for his mal-
adroit reference to Tucker and the dipping
religion, but, fortunately, Ben was obtuse.
Reaching for the nearest book —it hap-
pened to be a Directory—l improvised as
fol “ The candid historian, in reviewing the
slow but relentless disintegration of the
Imperial race, cannot but admit that in
R™me itself the attention of the youth to
the pleasures of the bath, where hour after
hour was spent in languorous ea ®«’ we ®*'
ened the martial ardor, enfeebled the
national spirit, and permitted sloth and
fndolence to usurp the ancient Roman vir-
tues of duty and patriotism.
“In short,” I cried dramatically, the
Romans bathed every day, and now what
are they? A Bathurst burr shaken by the
wind a waterhole that is dried up, a colt
with a bog spavin, a cream can—but there,
Mr Tucker, need I say more.
Ben was impressed—mightily impressed—
and at length he rose slowly and shook us
gravely by the hand.
(Continued on next page.)


STRAINED MUSCLES, CRAMP, STIFFNESS
and MUSCULAR TROUBLES GENERALLY.
ZAM-BUK SOOTHES PAIN,
STIMULATES THE MUSCLES &
BANISHES ALL WEAKNESS.
Sprains are said to be worse than
breaks. Many a housewife thinks so
when she twists her ankle while tripping
thoughtlessly downstairs, and so does
the pedestrian who makes a sudden and
unexpected descent from pavement to
gutter. The thing happens so simply,
and is so acutely painful, isn’t it?
Most sprained joints take a long time to
get well, whWh probably accounts for the
saying referred to above; hut proper first-
aid measures, and treatment with Zam-Buk,
ensure the speediest possible recovery.
In serious cases foment the ankle (or
wrist, as the case may be) in very hot water
for some time, keeping up the heat of the
bath by constant additions. This -will reduce
the swelling and lessen the pain. Then wrap
up in cotton wool and bandage firmly but
not too tightly. Later on cold water bathing
may be commenced, and Zam-Buk should be
gently applied to allay the inflammation.
This point accomplished, massage with Zam-
Buk is advisable. Rub the balm well in
with a circular motion, gently at first and
more vigorously as the patient can land it.
These measures (and proper rest, of
course) will cure the worst sprain or strain.
Zam-Buk soothes the pain, and makes the
muscles and ligaments supple and strong
again. A pot should be kept handy in
every home.
m
m
/iwftsi
/ISSS
i“'iS
l&tfi •‘•‘••Vis
mm
fin
V'Y«
I*4
?*«•
£3j/.
m/r
if/.*
Sprained Ankle
Speedily Cured.
“While going down the
hack steps I slipped and
sprained my ankle,” says Mrs.
M. Ebner, of Mort Street,
Toowoomba, Queensland. “The
pain was acute, and made it
almost impossible for me to
get about.
“My son strongly recom-
mended Zam-Buk, so we pro-
cured a pot and rubbed the
Balm well into the ankle and
surrounding parts. The swell-'
ing quickly went down, the
pain died away, and mv ankle
is now as supple and strong as
ever it was.
“Zam-Buk is. a splendid
healer to have in the home.”
Rub Zam-Buk In to Rub Pain Out.
•every home needs 4
pot."
Zam-Buk is excel-
lent for eczema,
ulcers, bad legs,
ringworm, rash,
barooo rot, sore
feet, cuts, bruises,
scalds, and other
injuries and skin
troubles. Of all
chemists and
stores, at 1/6 and
3/6 per pot
Colic, Diarrhoea and Dysentery
Are diseases that require immediate attention. In almost every neighbourhood
someone has died from these diseases before medicine could be procured or a
physician summoned.
Those who rely upon physicians often find that they are away from home when
most needed.
Every family, and especially those who reside in the back blocks, should keep
at hand a bottle of Chamberlain's Colic & Diarrhoea Remedy.
No physician can prescribe a better medicine for the purpose for which it is
intended. It is invaluable for both children and adults.
INFLUEN
When you have an attack of influenza
reduce the fever as quickly as
possible. For this there is no better
medicine than Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy. It reduces fever, lessens
inflammation and does away with
the danger of that nasty cough that
so often follows influenza.
COUGH REMEDY.
“Yer said jus’ now, both o’ yer, that”
“We never wash,” Bugden and I replied
in unison.
Ben thought a while. “Will yer ’ave a
gingerale?” he asked humbly.
We accompanied Ben with victorious en-
thusiasm, passing the curious little crowds
that had gathered outside expecting the
Great Smash with proud, confident steps.
When we stood outside the hotel —the same
liquor emporium where the dissipated comp,
was squared—Ben suddenly remembered
something.
“Th’ Express, that fellow Dobson—’e
said you insulted me. ’E’s a liar.”
“He is,” we returned with deep convic-
tion.
“I’ll go in an’ knock ’is ’ead orf,” ex-
claimed Ben savagely.
“No, no,” said Bugden, speaking With
suppressed excitement in his voice, “don’t
do that. Don’t knock his head off. Knock
his paper off.”
“What!” ejaculated Ben in amazement.
“Go in to Mr. Dobson,” said Bugden with
dignity, “and tell him you are ceasing to
subscribe to the Express, and that you are
taking the Banner.”
Ben stared at Bugden with open tnoUth
for nearly half a minute. Then his teeth
snapped together.
“Be gum, I will,” he said determinedly.
S. B. IRWIN.
The Burglosopher.
A NOCTURNE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SUDDENLY and silently Jegney awoke
to darkness and stillness. But his
old camping-instinct told him that he
had been aroused by some suspicious noise,
and metaphorically he pricked-up his ears.
Yes ; a faint, indefinable sound in the room
below —his study.
Promptly Jegney switched on the light
and slid into his dressing-gown. Then he
grabbed his 10-sliot automatic and de-
scended the stairs with that feline sound-
lessness of tread possible only to the white
man who has lived long with savages. From
the study-door a light peaked sharply out
into the darkness. Jegney coasted cautiously
along the wall—then strode suddenly into
the room and covered a man who was sitting
at the table, reading. Of this man’s face a
burglar’s mask left visible only a mouth and
chin—clean-shaven and resolute; and on the
table beside his right hand lay a 45-Colt.
But at this he made no grab, for the wicked-
looking little tube of the automatic was
staring him squarely in the eye.
“Take that shooter by the muzzle,” curtly
commanded Jegney, “and push it across the
table. If you make a dash for the butt,
you know what happens.”
The other nodded and pushed the pistol
across. “If you’d had only a revolver, Mr.
Jegney,” he said calmly, “I’d have tried a
snap at you. Revolvers are chancy things
at the best, but with that automatic tool
you could hardly miss me at the distance, if
you tried.”
Jegney slipped the Colt into the pocket of
his gown, and then gla,nced at the book the
other still held in his left hand. The stranger
turned up the title-page and orotundly read:
“Observations upon Philosophical Necessity.
By Richard Jegney.”
Jegney answered the unspoken question.
“Yes,” he said, “I wrote it. Find it inter-
esting?” he added, ironically.
“Interesting? My dear sir, so interesting
that it betrayed me into the unworkmanlike
trick of laying my gun upon the table. As
it happens, it would have made no difference
in this case, but every business has its
rules.”
“Burglary included, I presume?”
The other waved deprecatory hands.
“Burglary, my dear sir, is not a business.
It is a Fine Art, of which I am a not alto-
gether unworthy professor.”
“Well, whatever else you may be, you’re
certainly the coolest cucumber I ever struck
in my life.”
“Quite so,” was the unmoved return.
“ ‘Taken as read,’ as they say in Parlia-
ment.”
“And whom have I the honor of address-
ing?” Jegney said sarcastically. “You ap-
pear to know my name. Won’t you let me
have at least one out of your choice assort-
ment, in return?”
The other laughed lightly. “A sobriquet
will have to serve,” he said. “To the gen-
tlemen of my present profession I am gener-
ally known as ‘the Burglosopher.’ The
compound, as you will doubtless observe, is
a philological bastard, but for the present
the designation may stand. And, as for my
business here” —he lightly touched his mask,
and pointed to the pocket wherein lay his
captured pistol.
“So you came to burgle me,” Jegney
said. “And, incidentally, to shoot me, if
necessary?”
“Certainly—if necessary,” acquiesced the
other, cheerfully. “In fact, to be explicit, I
came after the seventy-odd sovs. which a
friend of yours paid to you to-day in the
G.P.O. corridor. It was after banking-
hours, you remember.”
“I see. So you counted on the stuff being
in the house?”
“Yes; and I knew that you would be
alone on the premises. Mrs. Jegney is at
the Mountains, and meantime the maids
pass the night elsewhere.”
Jegney stared. “How did you know all
that?” he said.
“Pho! my dear sir—knowing things like
that is the ABC of my profession—my
present profession, at any rate.”
Jegney sat for a space in silence. “It’s a
bit disappointing,” he said then. “I was
beginning to feel interested in you, and it
turns out that you’re just a common, low-
down thief after all.”
“Sir,” calmly returned the other, “you
should discriminate better. I am not a
thief; I am a robber —a robber under arms.
Robbery under arms on the grand scale used
to be the noblest of all professions. My scale
is necessarily a small one. but I am of pre-
cisely the same kidney. I would scorn, for
instance, to pick a pocket, but I do not hesi-
tate to pit my life against the elaborate
safeguards with which Society has sur-
rounded itself and its belongings. That is
war —not thievery. Also, the most glorious
of all gambles is the one in which your very
existence hangs on every cast. Thief!
Pah!”
Jegney stretched out his legs and yawned.
“Well, never mind the exact word,’’ he said.
“You are, by your own account, a murderous
scoundrel. But you are also an educated
man and a thinker. How have you sunk to
this?”
“How?” The masked man laughed sar-
donically. “Simply because, according to
your own showing, it couldn’t have hap-
pened otherwise. 1 became a burglar be-
cause in the General Scheme of Things I
just had to become a burglar. Hear your
own words. He took the book from the
table, turned to an early leaf, and read:
‘Will is generally defined as the mental
faculty which determines personal action.
But Will is not a faculty at all. It is
merely an intermediate influence through
which the action of circumstances entirely
beyond our control is brought to bear upon
conduct.’ ”
The burglar threw the book lightly on
the table. “There!” he said. “It could
hardly have been better put, though I might
be permitted to suggest as an additional
illustration that, taking the human mind as
a ship, Will acts merely as the sails, behind
which there is always the wind of Circum-
stance.”
Jegney nodded.- “You are, as I said be-
fore, obviously a man of parts. You are
also a phenomenon of coolness, and you’ve
been putting up, for the last 20 minutes,
about the most gorgeous bluff I ever wit-
nessed. But it’s time to ring-off. I’m not
going to ‘do my duty by the community,’
and all that, by handing you over to the
police, but I’m certainly going to do my
duty by Richard Jegney. So, just as an
insignificant matter of detail, let us say—
pass over!”
The other’s mouth took an ugly down-
ward curve, but his speech was airy as ever.
“My dear sir—l am quite at a loss”
“Pass over!”
“At a loss to understand”——
Without more ado Jegney fired at him.
The slender nickel bullet, carefully aimed
not to kill, scored along the man’s head just
above the ear, and lie fell back in his chair,
partly stunned. Then the blood came freely,
lie sat up again, and —thus grimly warned
against further palaver—placed on the table
a little chamois bag. Jegney emptied this
and counted the sovereigns.
“Seventy-four,” he said. “Right. Now,
my friend the Burglosopher, before you go,
let me call your attention to the fact that,
though a philosopher, as exemplified in your
case, can be a dangerous and unscrupulous
ruffian, he need not necessarily, as exempli-
fied in mine, be a mutton-headed fool. Here’s
the whole game. I’m getting civilised again
and consequently clumsy—and your ears, I
observe, are of the beast-type that means
extremely acute audition. So you heard me
coming, and you took up the book and put
down the pistol in order to gain time to
think. Your frozen coolness afterwards was
meant to give me the impression that you
hadn’t yet got at the cash. But I had imme-
diately noticed that the cabinet-drawer over
there was not closed home by about a quarter-
inch. Now, I had left that drawer care-
fully locked. You had skeletoned it open,
and in your care to avoid noise you had
left me that simple little clue. As for the
book, you had evidently read it before.”
“Case not badly stated.” The Burgloso-
pher had recovered his nerve. “But what- a
waste of words merely to prove that you
are you and I am I? Seems to me that I
have got the courage of your convictions.
Queer situation, eh?”
Jegney’s heart smote him a little as he
looked at the blood dripping slowly from
beneath the mask. The man was certainly
a dangerous animal, but he was also some-
thing more. “Look here,” Jegney said sud-
denly ; “you are fit for better things”
“Oh, for God’s sake don’t begin to
snuffle !” hastily put in the other. “A Philo-
sophical Necessitarian should be the last
man in the world to ladle out good advice.”
“It wasn’t going to be advice,” Jegney
said, as they descended the stairs.
“Never mind what it was going to be,
then. You’re a dam fool, anyhow!”
“How do you make that out?”" said Jeg-
ney, with his hand on the door-latch.
“Let me out, and I’ll tell you.”
Jegney opened the door, and the. Burglo-
sopher turned upon the step.
“That’s how!” he said, and walked
swiftly away into the darknessr
ALEX. E. MONTGOMERY.
Shell Cove, Sydney Harbor.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Tis passing strange, this little bay
Is e’en as silent as the day
The first ship found it here ;
The trees, grown stooping, still retain
A vanished autumn’s russet stain,
Though flowers of spring appear.
It seems the seasons interflow ;
The wings of Time unheeded go
As seagulls o’er the sea;
The charm of natural things survives
In every brooding gum that rives
The sky-line’s symmetry.
’Tis here anemones outspread
Their tentacles of fleshy red
To suck the liquid joy,
And close their hearts and then unclose,
As if from satisfaction grows
The instinct that is coy.
Here swarm quartz-pebbles rose and white ;
Striations in the sandstone write
Creation’s history,
With many an iron nodule flecked,
Whose inner kernels resurrect
To sun and breeze and sea.
From tombing centuries of night
Into a world of living light
And transformation rare ;
Where Nature lorded it alone
So long upon a secret throne
There blooms a city fair;
Whilst borne upon the breezes pass
Hot-hearted echoes through the grass,
Mid memories eterne
Of vanished landscapes and grotesque,
Stored like an antique arabesque
Within Creation’s urn.
N.S.W.
BRENDA MOCATTA.


WESTINGHOUSE
(MORSE) CHAIN DRIVES
I",
1'
MPM
lj&3f
■
For all types of high-speed
power transmission.
Positive in Action
Silent in Operation
Unrivalled in Efficiency.
Because their patented feature,
The Rocker Joint,
eliminates the friction due to
sliding surfaces. Consequently
you have
Full Power
Continuous Power
Satisfactory Power.
Full Particulars from
estinghouse Brake Co. of Australasia
i
Queensland & Church, Brisbane
Mew Zealand Agents—Philips & Pike, Wellington.
THE STIRLING WATER TUBE BOILER
Sbk,:
FOR
High Efficiency
AND
Perfect Safety.
We carry Boilers in Stock for Immediate
Delivery, and Quote for Erection
and Brickwork.
We are Sole Agents, and Contract for
Complete Power Plants with Guar-
anteed Results.
ALSO AGENTS FOR-
Nichols Boiler Feed Pumps, Bolinder Woodworking Machinery,
Dewrance Steam Valves.
Write sis for oar Complete Catalogue of Engineers’ Supplies.
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Where is the Car to Equal
The METZ “22” at *190?
Where is the car at any price that can do nearly as well'/ Think of the
economy of it! Think of the saving in cost of running! Think of the
satisfaction of running a car that leaves your mind free to enjoy the pleasure
without bothering about “mileage cost and upkeep.”
Its simplicity captivates everyone who knows anything about thoroughbred
motor-car construction'. It certainly will appeal to you, from considerations
quite apart from the price. It is stylish, comfortable and durable —a car
that delivers the maximum of economy and efficiency.
Investigate. Get the facts, so that you may compare it with cars costing
even twice as much. Details on request, and trial trips to prove it. Price,
£190 complete.
BROWN 8 HELLICAR LTD.,
375 KENT STREET (Between King
and Market Streets), SYDNEY.
METZ CARS,
WAVERLEY CARS,
INDIAN
■LDS DIAMOND DRILLING CO.
331 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Works
.Ltd.
IB
gMWSTROHO
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Armstrong: Traction Well-Boring: Machine
■ MOVES WITHOUT HORSES
RUMELY KEROSENE
OIL TRACTORS.
ALL-STEEL BORING PLANTS,
TOOLS AND CASING.
Gasoline and Kerosene Engines,
Pumps, Windmills, Silos, Hay
Presses, Wagons, etc., etc.
CT Ul' KKKEIiS from that cruel, stubborn, nerve-
rucking, skin disease, ECZEMA, need no longer
face its terrible pangs with doubts or misgivings.
“ISO,” the remarkable Eczema Ointment—the remedy
which has cured scores of cases—is within easy reach
of all. The inventors are Chemists of wide repute,
practising in your midst. They use “ISO” daily in
treating patients. Write them at once for a free
sample of “ISO,” enclosing three penny stamps, to
partly cover postage and packing. Their address is:
J S. BLACK k SONS,
Smith Street. Colli ngwood, Vic.
• •
Salts
Now sold by Chemists throughout tu«s commonwealth.
Wholesal • imp orters:
H. & W. GREAR, HI, -larene; Street, SYDNEY.
LONE HAND
A Monthly Guide for everything
Australian.
o,- ■
r*
/
2L
/
/
/
in/
/
I!"
/
JU
\\w
/W\\\M, V"
/
I-
,n i
✓
I u
/
/
«
/
</
''l l
i f
wmz
m
as
RSJJS
THffISKS
msm
9
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
...AT . . . ,
THE BANKING HOUSE, 228 Pitt Street,
Opposite PALACE THEATRE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LENDS MONEY ON ALL SECURITIES, including Furniture,
FROM 10 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
FRED. McWILLIAM, Manager.
20th Century Band Saw.
KIRCHNER’S
Woodworking Machines
are giving satisfaction.
Write for Catalogue and Information
direct to the
MANUFACTURERS—
KIRCHNER & CO.,
32 Market Street, SYDNEY
Automatic
Knife Grinding
Machine.
_
e
High -Speed
Lathes
Milling Cutters
Shaping Machines
Drilling Machines
Radial Drills
Punching and
Shearing Machines
Hack Saw Machines
Also
Blowers
Power Hammers
Etc.
There is some work in your shop that could be done more
easily—faster and more economically—if you had a
modern machine in place of the old one. You’ll admit
this without hesitation.
But maybe the first cost stands in the way. Analyse
the proposition. Find out the cost of the machine. See
what saving it will effect in production. Figure out the
increased business it will permit. Then put the items
side by side, and you’ll find that the installation will be
a profitable investment.
The easy terms we arrange when desired make pur-
chase quite simple. Just ring up or write our expert and
let him explain any particular machine.
T. M. GOODALL & GO., LTD.
(Universal Machinery Merchants),
303-5 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
Telephones: City 6427-8.


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Fire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MACK LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
■y'i
on
12m. Fan
taking;
45 Watts.
FANS
For All Voltages
and Systems.
Stocked in Desk, Wall and Ceiling Types.
Rigid Bbdy, Swivel and Trunnion, and Oscillating Patterns.
PRICES MODERATE. Send for Lists.
OF AUSTRALIA Ltb»
SYDNEY: Wynyard Lane. 3520 City.
MELBOURNE: 6l'William Street. sw city
BRISBANE: Corner Saul 8 Roma Streets. 3676 central
It is the Power
Transmits
that
Counts.
ZTa
m
Jr
and
Specify
DICK’S
BELTING
Sole agents—
Jas. Hardie 8 Co.
Circular Quay,
SYDNEY
And MELBOURNE.
T
%
X
DALGETY & C 9 LTP,
——AGEHTS.—-
DALGETY 8 COMPANY LIMITED,
Machinery Merchants—Miller’s Point, SYDNEY, and an Branches.
m
«
♦
M
Tangye Kerosene Oil Engine*
AGENCIES
Tangyes, Limited, Birmingham.
Clayton & Shuttleworth, Ltd., Lincoln.
Wolseley Sheep Shearing Machine Co., Ltd., Birmingham.
Gane Milking Machine Co., Ltd.
Nicholson & Morrow —G. Munro Propty., Limited.
HUGE STOCKS Carried of the following lines—
Kerosene Oil and Benzine Engines.
Steam Engines and Boilers.
Steam and Belt-driven Pumps. All
Sizes.
Suction Gas Producer Plants.
Winches, Chain Blocks, Jacks, etc.
Portable Steam and Traction Engines.
Sheep Shearing Machines.
Cream Separators.
Milking Machines.
Agricultural Implements & Machinery.
Chaffcutters and Sawbepches,
Etc. etc. etc.
IMPORTANT TO REMEMBER!
We Carry Spare Parts for All Machines.
“American” Plain Radial Drills
combine, in an ideal manner, all the advantages of
a wide range of speeds,'feeds, great driving power,
and convenience in operating, with a design that
is extremely simple, substantial and rigid. The
construction of these tools embodies every feature
which recent developments in machine-shop prac-
tice have shown to be essential to the rapid and
accurate production of drilling and tapping work.
We are Agents for American Tool Works Com-
pany, and have in stock —
RADIAL DRILLS,
SHAPERS,
PLANERS, etc.
If you are interested in modern Machinery,
call or write us for information and prices.
p.
Engineers and
Machinery Merchants,
74 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
OSHS
NAT
OIL ENGINES
For RESIDAL OIL or any
grade of Common
Paraffin.
Suitable for both
MARINEjnd
STATIONARY PURPOSES.
MELBOURNE.
COMBS, 2j~ EACH.,
CUTTERS, 6cf. EACH.
Dangar Gedye & Co„
9=13 Young Street, Sydney,
Sole Agents tor Australia.
COMBS
AND
CUTTERS
Obtainable from all Storekeepers.
SUNSHI
ENGIN
for driving CHatffcntters, Saw Benches, Pumps, Dynamos, Graders, Hoists, Mortar Mills, etc.
H. V. McKAY, Sunshine, Vic Adelaide — Brisbane —— Sydney —— Melbourne.
THE "GUTHRIDG”
Garbage Destructor.
SIMPLE.
....
Adopted by the N.S.W. Health Department and the N.S.W. Education Department.
INVALUABLE FOR PRIVATE AND PUBLIC HOSPITALS. NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS.
Manufactured by
N. GUTHRIDGE Ltd.
SYDNEY and
MELBOURNE
m
mm
J j
-
iii
