

H
R. <3-. WATKINS <S& CO.,
107 Kent Street., Sydney,
ll§jUAVk —FOR—
Mining 1 and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
The Shopkeeper Needing Financial Aid
will exercise sound judgment by procuring the necessary loan from this Company—whose reputation for
fair dealing stands as sponsor for straightforward and business-like treatment. Small or large loans on
any reasonable security. LOWEST INTEREST IN AUSTRALIA!
N.S.W. Mont De Piete D. 8 I. Co. Ltd.,
Head Office: 74 Castlereagh St. 74, Sydney.
Opposite National Amphitheatre.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUsTASE BENNETT, General Manager.
c
Williams’s, ™E Whisky
HOBART,
SRS
Radley s Orient (jotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING
Guarantied
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
\
99
Take it back .
I must have
HUTTON’S
Pinc-Applc Brand
H
CHUBB’S
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
32 RECIPES
for preparing a variety of the most
dainty Desserts with
HAN S E NS
unket,
Ĥ
will be forwarded, Post Free to Any
Address, on application to
T. 8., Box 577, C.P.0., Sydney.
PALMER CORD TYRES
are specially constructed to ensure Long Service.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO.,
SYDNEY—MELBOURNE—NEWCASTLE
m
BECK’S LAGER BEER
m- ~ - %
IF!
Let your next Roof be of
MALTHOID
THE PERFECT ROOFING.
Made by
THE PARAFFINE PAINT CO.,
CHALLIS HOUSE, SYDNEY,
Manufacturers of Amiwud. D. S. EVANS, Australasian Representative
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L
Ħ
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T -
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
tfewWay
AIR-COOLED
BENZINE
ENGINE
There’s no hard work with a “ New-Way” Engine.
Couple It to a pump, saw bench, winnower or any
implement and prove it. ,
No water-cooling tank or piping required, simple,
powerful, always ready, economical and unaffected
by weather conditions Saves time, trouble and
expense. Guaranteed effective. Bosch High
Tension Magneto fitted.
From 2i to 12 H P. Portable end Stationary.
Write for Catalogue.
H
jlMat-l/IrluelM
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
352 KENT STREET,
(»e;ir King Street) SYDNEY.
H ELI DON SPA
HELIDON SPA is the only Australian Mineral
with Genuine Osmotic Properties.
STARKEYS LTD., Agents,
Phillip St., Sydney, and Red fern
The Bulletin
Vo). 34.—Kg. 1724.
Thursday, February 27, 1913.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Posb as a Newspaper


GENERAL LITERATURE.
IN ATTRACTIVE CLOTH BINDING,
PRICE 1/3 each, POSTED 1/5.
What’s ’Wrong with the World, by G. K. Chesterton.
Pictures from the Balkans, by Foster Fraser.
Man and the Universe, by Sir Oliver Lodge.
Daarid Livingstone, by Sir Harry Johnston.
Future of England, by Hon. George Peel.
Nelson and His Captains, by W. H. Fitchett.
Self Help, by Samuel Smiles.
Man’s Place in Nature, by T. H. Huxley.
Running the Blockade, by T. E. Taylor.
Valima Letters, by R. L. Stevenson.
Man’s Place in the Universe, by A. R. Wallace.
From Midshipman to Field Marshal, by Sir Evelyn
Wood.
WRITE FOR LISTS OF OTHER BOOKS AT 1/3 EA CH.
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND COMPANY PROPY., LTD.,
238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ROUND TABLE NUMBER 9.
Quarterly Review of the Politics of the
Articles on British Empire.
ARBITRATION AND WAR.
THE BALKAN CRISIS.
INDIA.
And Political News from the Dominions.
Obtainable from MacMillan and Co., w
Russell Street, Melbourne, or any bookselle •
Hudson’s EUMENTHOL Tooth
iHOW TO USE THE POWDER.i
Powder
SECURES SOUND
WHITE TEETH.
This Powder is not only an Antiseptic and
Germicide, but cleanses mechanically, owing
to the evolution of free active oxygen when
the powder is in contact with water or the
oral fluids. It is the oxygen which, by neu-
tralising the acid-producing organisms of de-
cay, and dissolving mischievous deposits,
whitens the teeth so wonderfully, and ward 3
off decay as no other preparation for the
Teeth can or will do. Scientists agree that
a powder is superior to any liquid or paste
for cleansing and preserving the Teeth. The
Committee of the British Dental Association
recommend powder as best for the Teeth.
'
esc
Sold by all Chemists In our patent stopper metal bottles, handy for
travel or home, price I/O, forwarded free on receipt of stamps.
Hudson’s Euipenthol Chemical Co. Ltd., i9YorkSt., Sydney.
Forwarded Free, our New Book containing valuable Information
11 regarding the Teeth.
Louis Becke
The Red page
AUSTRALIAN WRITERS: No. 7.
[Louis Becke died in Sydney, Feb. 19th.
The following account of his literary life
was written by himself last year for this
page.]
My birthplace was the sleepy old town of
Port Macquarie, at the mouth of the Hast-
ings River. ,My earliest recollections go
back to the time when I was six years of
age, and the pilot allowed me to scramble
into the pilot boat when she was launched
down the greasy skids to board one of the
old-time steamers; and I shall always re-
member the ecstasy of the boat facing the
heavy surf that rolled into Pilot Cove —a
place hewn out of the solid rock by convict
hands in the old days when the swish of the
lash and the rattle of the gyves reigned* in
the land.
My father was a Government official —
police magistrate, coroner and many other
things; and I, the youngest son of six, got
the combined thrashings due to the whole
six for my wandering proclivities and run-
nings away from home. Before I was ten
years of age I had twice made my way to
Camden Haven, 23 miles from Port Mac-
quarie, to escape the terrors of day school
and Sunday school.
The schoolmaster was a man named
Blackwood, who was habitually “sprung” by
nine in the morning, and very kind to all
the pupils. In the afternoon his mood
would change, and he used his supple-jack
cane most mercilessly, generally picking me
out as his first victim. I have endeavored
to portray his character in one of my
books entitled Breachley, Black Sheep.
The Anglican parson was the Rev. Canon
O’Reilly, whose sermons consisted solely of
Hell Fire and Eternal Damnation. He,
too, like the schoolmaster, used the cane
freely after the Sunday-school service was
oyer; and I often went away from the
hideous, squat little Sunday-school house —
an adjunct of the more than hideous red-
bricked, convict-built St. Thomas’s Church
—with my hands black and blue. My father
never gave me any sympathy—he believed
in flogging—but my mother gave me lard
for my hands, and bread and jam for my
interior, and I would always promise not
to run away again. I think that the reason
why the schoolmaster and parson disliked
me so much was on account of my stammer-
ing, with which I had been afflicted from
my infancy. On one of my runaway ven-
tures I was accompanied by a red-headed
girl. The mounted police brought us back.
The time came, when I was 12 years of
age, when I ran away in earnest, and stayed
away for _ six years. One of my brothers
was carrying on business as a stationer and
bookseller in King-street, Sydney, and I had
to serve in the shop until I was old enough
to enter the service of the Australian Joint
Stock Bank, the prospect of which filled me
with horror, for I wanted to become a
pirate. Always fond of wandering about
the wharves, I had made the acquaintance
of a Rarotongan native who was an A.B.
ofi the barque Rotumah, which was a regu-
lar trader to Tonga, Samoa and Wallis
Island. His English name was George;
land to George I confided my sorrows. He
had a Samoan wife living in Apia, and told
me that if ever I came to Samoa I would
find a home there. He consented to my stow-
ing away on the Rotumah; and, a week
later, in the early morning, I crept upstairs
to my dear mother’s bedroom, kissed her in
her sleep, and then fled violently down to
Miller’s Point where the Rotumah was lying
ready for sea. George and the nigger cook,
one Harry Mills, hid me away in the fore-
hold, and that evening the t rque was out-
side Sydney Heads, and I was both happy
and miserable —happy at the thought of
South Sea Islands, and miserable when my
mother’s face came before me.
I soon found employment m Samoa, and
rapidly acquired the language; and one of the
first friends I made was the lately-deceased
old warrior Mataafa. And although I did
not become a pirate I became a very success-
ful smuggler of arms and ammunition.
I had returned to Sydney from the Caro-
line Islands pretty well broken-down with
malarial fever and deadly hard up, when I one
day met the late Ernest Favenc, who asked
me to come along with him and “have a talk”
with Mr. .T. F. Archibald, editor of The Bulle-
tin. I did so, and on the following day wrote
my first story of the South Seas. It was en-
titled Ghallis, the Doubter. Mr. Archibald
liked it, and told me to write more. The re-
sult was a collection of short tales and
sketches, which I entitled By Reef and
Palm.
The editor of The Bulletin sent copies of'
the book to Harry Massingham, editor of the
London Daily Chronicle, who offered the col-
lection to Fisher Unwin. He was willing to
buy the copyright for £l5. (The Bulletin
had paid about £70.) Mr. Ar> ibald advised
me to write to Mr. Unwin, and tell him that
if he could only offer me £l5 I would keep
my stories to read to my friends in Heaven.
Then Unwin sprang another £5O, apd the
little work appeared. But months before this
I had slung my scrub-hook and was writing
other stories for The Bulletin, and getting
square meals from the proceeds thereof. The
second volume consisted of 17 Bulletin
stories, which I also sent to Unwin. He paid
me £2OO for The Ebbing of the Tide; and it
was then that Messrs. Archibald and Macleod
told me to go to London; and they financed
me to the extent of £2OO. The Ebbing of the
Tide proved almost as great a success as By
Reef and Palm ; and when I reached London
commissions flowed in from all sides. The
Pall Mall Gazette, the Daily Chronicle, the
Earl of Pembroke and Lord Rosebery did me
great service; so also did Kipling, Richard
Whiteing and other great writers; and I had
to place my affairs in the hands of Watt and
Son, literary agents. After a year in London
I went to spend a month in Ireland, and
stayed there for three years, writing continu-
ously for the English magazines.
From Ireland I went to France to place
my daughter at school at Le Havre, and re-
mained in France for three and a half years.
During this time I wrote a series of stories
and articles for the Pall Mall and Westmin-
ster Gazettes, which were published in book-
form under the title of Sketches from Nor-
mandy. It was not a literary success, but I
was well paid for it. Before this I had writ-
ten a tale of adventure (primarily for boys),
called Tom Wallis, and placed it with my
literary agent, who hawked it about from
publisher to publisher for months. He could
have sold it over and over again for a price
that would have well satisfied me, but he
wanted too much for it. I was then con-
tributing short stories to the Boys’ Own
Paper and the Leisure Hour; and one day the
editor of the latter asked me if I could give
him a long serial. I thought of Tom Wallis,
and managed to get the MS. back from the
agent. Within three days the Religious Tract
Society bought the serial rights for £2lO for
the Leisure Hour and the book rights for a
similar sum. It had a great success. My
aggnt (who drew up the usual agreement
with R.T.S.) netted his 10 per cent, com-
mission, although he had absolutely nothing
to do with selling it. After that experience
I became my own agent.
I wrote Helen Adair whilst in the West
Indies, sold the serial rights (12 months'
use to a newspaper syndicate for £55, and
was paid £2OO for the book rights; Tom
Gerrard I wrote in France, and received
£250 fer the book rights, but failed to sell
it serially. Wild Life in Southern Seas —a
collection of tales and stories, which I con-
sider holds my best work, had a big sale in
the United States and Canada. The
libraries and schools bought it as an edu-
cational work. One story in the book, Hino
the Apostate (8000 words), brought me £4O
as a short serial. Pacific Tales and By
Rock and Pool were both successful works;
and the former was translated into French
and Swedish.
Since I first cast away axe and scrub-
hook and began to write for The Bulletin,
I have turned out a fair number of books —
volumes of short stories and novels; and
the critics have always been good to me. I
cannot remember the titles of them all, but
here are some :
By Beef and Palm, The Ebbing of the Tide, Wild
Life in ■Southern Seas, By Rock and Pool, Tom Ger-
rard, ChinHes’ Flat, Yorke the Adventurer, Sketches
from Normandy, Notes from My South Sea Log, The
Strange Adventure of James Shervinton, Tom Wallis,
’Neath Austral Skies, The Call of the South, Adven-
tures of Larry Blake, IJis Native Wife, Tessa and
the Trader’s Wife, Pearl Divers of Roncador Reef,
Ridan the Devil, Rodman the Boatsteerer, Edward
Barry, Under Tropic Skies, Breachley Black Sheep,
Helen Adair, and about 10 others.
All these works were published at 6s.
with colonial editions at 2s. 6d. I received
many hundreds of letters from men making
inquiries as to how to get to the islands,
cost of living, etc.; and they invariably
wound up by some very pointed questions
concerning the ways of the Brown Woman.
I found literary life in London very plea-
sant, but one has to work hard to keep in
the swim. The high-class English maga-
zines pay well, but it is hard in most cases
for a beginner to get a foothold.
I wish to add that whatever literary suc-
cess I may have achieved is due entirely to
the training I received from the editor of
The Bulletin, who taught me the secrets
of condensation and simplicity of language.
LOUIS BECKE.
From Meredith’s Letters
Of Woman.
The case with women resembles that of
the Irish. We have played fast and loose
with them, until now they are encouraged
to demand what they know not how to use,
but have a just right to claim. If the
avenues of our professions had been thrown
open to them, they might have learnt the
business of the world, to be competent to
help in governing. But these were closed,
women were commanded to continue their
reliance upon their poor attractions. Con-
sequently, as with the Irish, they push to
grasp the baguette which gives authori-v.
And they will get it; and it will be a horri-
ble time. But better than the present
sights
Men railing at women for an excessive
domestic volubility, little thought of the
valve their public speaking will serve for.
All the old tales of women are going to be
reversed....
By-and-bye the world will smile on women
who cut their own way out of a bad early
marriage, or it will correct the present rough
marriage system. No young woman knows
what she gives her hand to; she will never
be wiser until boys and girls are brought up
and educated together. Let me add, until
English girls have wiser mothers. Such
donkeys are those dames in all our
classes !....
At the present time women need en-
couragement to look out upon affairs of
national interest, and men should do their
part ip helping them to state publicly what
has long been confined to the domestic circle
—consequently a wasted force. That it is a
force men are beginning to feel. That the
exercise of it is an education we see already
in the enlargement of their view of life and
of the country’s needs. So there is hope that
the coming generation will have more intel-
ligent mothers....
Sentimental prattle of the mother, the
wife, the sister is not needed when we see,
a§ the choicer spirits of men do now see, that
women have brains, and can be helpful to
the hitherto entirely dominant muscular
creature who has allowed them some degree
of influence in return for servile flatteries
and the graceful undulations of the snake —
admired yet dreaded. Women must have
brains to have emerged from so long a bond-
age
Of His Method.
When at the conclusion of your article
on my works, you say that a certain change
in public taste, should it come about, will
be, to some extent, due to me, you hand me
the flowering wreath I covet. For I think
that all right use of life, and the one secret
of life, is to pave ways for the firmer footing
of those who succeed us; as to my works, I
know them faulty, think them of worth only
when they point and aid to that end.... 1
have supposed that the novel, exposing and
illustrating the natural history of man, may
help us ■to such sustaining roadside gifts.
But I have never started on a novel to pur-
sue the theory it developed. The dominant
idea in my mind took up the characters and
the story midway....My method has been
to prepare my readers for a crucial exhibi-
tion of the personae, and then to give tlte
scene in the fullest of their blood and brain
under stress of a fiery situation. Concern-
ing style, thought is tough, and dealing with
thought produces toughness. Or when strong
emotion is in tide against the active mind,
there is perforce confusion.
Of “Diana of the Crossways.”
“Diana of the Crossways” keeps me still
on her sad last way to wedlock. I could
have killed her merrily, with my compli-
ments to the public; and that was my inten-
tion. But the marrying of her sets me
traversing feminine labyrinths, and you know
the why of it never can be accounted for. . . .
My “Diana” stills holds me ; only by the
last chapter; but the coupling of such a
woman and her man is a delicate business.
She has no puppet-pliancy. The truth
being that she is a mother of Experience,
and gives that dreadful baby suck to brains.
I have, therefore, a feeble hold of her; none
of the novelist’s winding-up arts avail; it is
she who leads me. ...
Here is another American actress applying
for permission to dramatise “Diana.” I
must let her know that Ulrica dislikes the
character. Yet Ulrica says of herself that
she has imagination. Then she ought to be
able to enter the breast of a passionate
woman, a wife widowed, much needing to be
on her guard against the man, ready to fly
with him, hating to intrigue; and while she
totter in this juncture, assailed by monetary
needs, vain of her touch on political secrets,
subject in a crisis to a swoon of the mind-
mark that, O imaginative lady! for there
are women and noble women, who stand
unpractised and alone in the world, liable to
these attacks, driven for the moment back
on their instincts. ... “She behaved basely.”
But she was physically ahd mentally un-
aware of the importance of the secret....
Of the Last Phase.
Since last September I have not held a
pen, except perforce to sign my name....So
here I am, of no use to anyone. . . .We who
have loved the motion of legs and the sweep
of the winds, we come to this. But for
myself, I will own that it is the natural
order. There is no irony in Nature
I can imagine that I shall retain my laugh
in Death’s ear, for that is what our Maker
prizes in men....
When I ceased to walk briskly part of
my life had ended, and I am bored by hav-
ing to read belated opinions of the work I
have done
The shower of letters since my oppressive
SOth (birthday) is abating; still daily I
have one or two for answer. It is hard at
my age to be pitchforked up in the public
eye. Some would like it.
Spiders
The translation of the works of the most
famous naturalist in the world, J. H. Fabre,
continues. The latest volume, which reprints
the famous preface by Maeterlinck that in-
troduced Fabre’s name to us, is titled The
Life of the Spider (Hodder and Stoughton,
per Angus and Robertson, Sydney). It is
just as fascinating as The Life and Love of
the Insect , and Social Life in the Insect
World . Here is the spider’s life, from the
egg to the weaving of the web. Of the mar-
vels of the spider’s weaving apparatus Fabre
is never wearied. The spider possesses the
most wonderful silk-factory in existence.
“The egg-bag of the Eleirse is an important
and complex work. Various materials enter
into its composition: white silk, red silk,
brown silk; moreover, these materials are
worked into dissimilar products: stout cloth,
soft eiderdown, dainty satinette, porous felt.
And all this comes from the same workshop
that weaves the hunting-net, warps the zigzag
ribbon-band and casts an entangling shroud
over the prey.... With a very simple and
never-varying plant, consisting of the hind
legs and the spinnerets, it produces, by turns,
rope-maker’s, spinner’s, weaver’s, ribbop-
maker’s and fuller’s work. How does she ob
tain, at will, skeins of diverse hues and
grades? How does she turn them out, first
in this fashion, then in that? I see the re-
sults, but I do not understand the machinery
and still less the process.”
To our rudimentary knowledge of the mir-
acle of instinct Fabre makes valuable con-
tributions. He finds, for instance, that: ‘‘Th e
instincts have a calendar of their own. At
the given hour suddenly they awaken; "as
suddenly, afterwards, they fall asleep.. .’.To
the insect what is done is done, and cannot
be taken up again. The hands of a watch do
not move backwards. The insect behaves in
much the same way. Its activity urges it in
one direction, ever forwards, without allow-
ing it to retrace its steps, even when an acci-
dent makes this necessary. .. .In the Lyeosa,
at the moment of the exodus (just after
birth), a sudden instinct arises, to disappear,
as promptly and for ever, a few hoUrs later.
This is the climbing instinct, which is un-
known to the adult and soon forgotten by the
emancipated youngling, doomed to wander
homeless, for many a long day, upon the
ground. Neither of them dreams of climbing
to the top of a grass stalk.”
The reason for this momentary Climbing in-
stinct is that the spider youngster wants to
become, for a few hours, an aeronaut. It
wants to see the world, to be carried from the
maternal home, and, accordingly, it climbs to
a height, spins a filament of silk, catches
hold and sails away.
The most interesting portion-of this volume
is that given up to the spider’s web. At the
end of Fabre’s engrossing chapters the reader
knows everything that is to be known about
the geometry and manufacture of spiders’
webs. For instance, he notes that the spider
never repairs her web. Either she goes on
hunting with a web in tatters, or she eats the
torn web every evening and spins another.
“The machine-shuttle in our looms does not
revert to the spoiled fabric; even so with the
spider working at her web.... All the large
spinstresses suffer from a similar incapacity
for patching... .The spider is absolutely
unable to mend her work. In spite of her
thoughtful appearance, the Eleira is incapable
of the modicum of reflection required to in-
sert a piece into an accidental gap.”
The spiral thread of the web is a capillary
tube ifiner than any that physics will ever
know 7 . Elasticity is provided for, in order to
allow the captured prey to tug but not break
it, by its being rolled into a twist; and it
holds a supply of sticky matter in reserve in
its tube, whence it exudes to renew its ad-
hesive properties. And the spider varnishes
herself with a special oily sweat so as to pre-
vent her sticking to her own web. But there
is a central platform formed of non-adhesive
threads. And the maryellous quantity of
thread produced ! It takes some 20 yards of
gummy thread for the web of one species of
spider, and in cases where a snider renews
her web every evening, Fabre calculated, from
observation "during two months, that one
spider had produced something like three-
quarters of a mile of this tubular thread,
rolled into a tight twist and bulging with
glue.
“How is the silky matter moulded into a
capillary tube? How is this tube filled with
glue and tightly twisted? And how does this
same wire-mill also turn out plain threads,
wrought first into a frame-work and then into
muslin and satin: next a russet foam
What a number of products to come from
that curious factory, a spider’s belly! ’
A chapter is given to the telegraph wire
which certain spiders stretch from the centre
of the web to their hiding-place. “Clutching
her telephone-wire with a toe, the spider
listens with her leg; she perceives the inner-
most vibrations; she distinguishes between
the vibration proceeding from a prisoner and
the mere shaking caused by the wind.” Into
Fabre’s interesting speculation as to the
means by which young spiders keep alive and
active, without any food, for months he sug-
gests that it is due to solar heat transformed
directly into motor-power; the motive heat,
instead of being extracted from the food,
being utilised direct —and his analysis of the
geometry of the spider’s web, with the weav-
er’s instinctive knowledge of what is known,
in the higher and dizzier mathematics, as the
logarithmic spiral,” there is no room to
And for Romance, what is more delightful
than this? “With September comes the
nuptial badge, the black-velvet bib. ine
spiders meet at night, by the soft moonlight,
they romp together, they eat the beloved
shortly after the wedding.”
* ■
Apropos of literary shrines, “Dingley
Dell,” once the residence of A. L. Cordon,
has been sold by auction. The poets old
house, with 101 acres, fetched £3 is. pe
acre.
The place-poem competition closes to-
morrow.


Jk
XL
DA N CIN G. —Signed Artist’s
Replica, 2ft- 4ii\. high, £5/17/6
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ FINE ART GALLERY
CERTAINLY the most notable addition to the many features that are presented at ANTHONY HORDERNS’
NEW PALACE EMPORIUM is the FINE ART GALLERY. This new section of our enterprise represents
collections of wares in varied branches of art, which appeal to the connoisseur, and all who have an innate
love for the beautiful. Many of the articles are eminently suitable for Gifts, being pleasing examples of the com-
bination of artistic talent with industrial enterprise.
The New Department may be regarded as a permanent exhibition of the Fine Arts, ranging from genuine
Bronzes, and exquisite French Enamels, Cut Crystal Glassware, to Pottery and Porcelain, which embraces many Fine
pieces of Irreproachable Style and Beauty in Royal Doulton, Royal Worcester, Royal Crown Derby, Coalport, Cope-
land, Minton, Wedgwood, Belleek, Royal Copenhagen, Lancastrian, Bernard Moore, Gouda, and Austrian Terra
Cotta Ware. >
Merit in design and craftmanship entitles these artistic present-day productions to stand cheek-by-jowl with the
Antiques. The Fame of the Fine Art Department has extended far and wide. Visitors are cordially invited to
inspect the art treasures that have been created by the handiwork and genius of man. All articles are marked in
plain figures, at prices which are extremely moderate, and no one is importuned to buy.
ART TERRA COTTA WARE
Comprising' Statuary, Groups, Vases, Figures,
The artistic excellence of this collection shown in the FINE ART GALLERY
is of the highest order. The range on view contains many classical and
other popular subjects, all finely modelled, each piece being a signed replica.
The following are very attractive specimens and remarkable value at the prices quoted.
LA FORCE. —A group piece of exceptional merit, finis
as bronze The modelling of the lion, held in check by the
gladiator, armed only with a trident, is a wonderfully strong
Diece of work. The rough and rugged base adds strength
Se piece and forme a fitting finish to an artistic l triumph.
Height, 31 inches; length, 23 inches. Price, *lO/10/-
CORINTH. —A line, tall, gracefully modelled female
figure of a Grecian Water Carrier. Height, 3 feet 4 mche .
Price, £9/9/-
THF GLADIATOR. —A fine subject treated in an artistic
anHaSerful Xie; the pose ‘•'e fignre he.ng excep-
tionally realistici and the,
vellously executed. T P triumnh of ceramic
metallic glazing alone being itself a triumph of
art. Height, 28 inches. Price, f7/7/-
V
MUSlC.—Signed Artist’s Replica,
2ft. 4in. high, £517/6.
ORPHEU S.—A well-
modelled Vase with figure in
relief of Orpheus enchant-
ing the wild denizens of the
forest. Height, 2 feet 6
inches. Price, £6/15/-
DIANA. —Vase of same de-
sign, with figure in relief of
Diana, attired for the chase
and accompanied by hounds.
Height, 2 feet 6 inches.
Price, £6/15/-
VASE, of oval form, with
two branch handles, the foli-
age of which is gracefully
carved over the bowl por-
tion of the Vase. The body
of this piece is effectively
decorated with a figure in
relief. Subject, Music.
Height, 22 inches. Price,
59/6.
THE examples of Art in
Terra Cotta Ware
enumerated on this page
are representative of many
other charming pieces
shown in our Fine Art
Gallery. <>*
Unique Exhibition of
French Bronzes
and Bronze and
Ivory Figures
in the Fine Art Gallery
THE Unique Collection of
Bronzes and Bronze and
Ivory Figures, shown at
the Anglo-Latin Exhibition
London, last year, will be on
view in the Fine Art Gallery at
the New Palace Emporium
during March.
We invite inspection of this
unique display, which comprises
one of the choicest yet seen in
Australia.
In selecting the pieces for the
London Exhibition, the rarity of
the subjects and the excellence
of finish were first considera-
tions. Each piece is distinctive,
the work of individual artists
and signed.
Make a point of inspecting
this charming collection. No
one is importuned to buy.
THE BATHER. —This well-known and ever-popular sub-
ject has been happily reproduced in Terra Cotta work. The
Artist, in paying personal attention to the outline of the
figure and the retouching of the limbs and features, has
given the subject that truly lifelike finish which justly de-
serves the approbation it receives. This piece is artistically
finished in bronze green. Height, 32in. Price, £6/6/-
MUSIC AND DANCING. —Two Vases of pleasing outline,
with female figure in relief. One represents Dancing and
the other Music. Height, 2 feet 4 inches. Price,
£5/17/6.
THE WRESTLERS. —From the original in the Vatican
Museum, a strong, forceful piece, the muscles of the con-
testants being well defined, and the attitude well balanced.
Size, 18 x 13 inches. Price, £4/4/-
THE TEAMSTER.—A natural treat-
ment of a popular subject, showing the
teamster in the attitude of lighting his
pipe. Height, 2 feet. Price, 75/-
THE FISHER BOY. —A pleasing
figure of a boy fishing. With Glass
Bowl complete. Height, 2 feet. Price,
£5/5/-
THE BOOKWORM. —A happy study
of a boy with his arms full of books,
some of which are in the act of falling,
his vain efforts to hold them being well
portrayed. Height, 18 inches. Price,
47/6.
THE SCHOOL B O Y. —A pleas-
ing piece, the attitude of the boy,
with hands i n
pocket, and a
happy, careless
expression, being
extremely nat-
ural and lifelike.
Height, 18
inches. Price,
39/6.
SCHUBERT.—
A finely mo d-
elled bust of this
famous com-
poser. Height, 12
inches. Price,
17/6.
Ĥ
Ħ
FISHING SUBJECT—Signed Replica,
2ft. high, £5/5/-
ANTHONY HORDERN &. SONS Ltd.
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


Amott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
"THE CHILDREN’S FOOD.”
TOOTH &l CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
The Most Famous Small-Bore SINGLE SHOT RIFLE IN THE WORLD!
STEVENS
FAVORITE No. 17.
fv>
| Furnished with Automatic Ejector in 22 ealibre.
Carefully bored and rifled by the celebrated Stevens method.
For '22 Long Rifle, - 25 Stevens and - 32 Long rim fire cartridges. State which
calibre you prefer when ordering.
STEVENS are the “ Bull’s Eye ” Kind. Sold by all dealers in the Commonwealth.
For full information, latest catalogues, etc., apply to
AIPTHITI? H HTI I Australian Representative for J. Stevens Arms & Tool Co.,
■rnyiimry Box 86 Q.p.o Adelaide, South Australia. [2
Honesty is Interwoven throughout the Workmanship
PIEPER BAYARD GUN.
H
Ĥ
Ħ
H
Ĥ
Ask to be shown
a Pieper Bayard
Weapon to prove
our assertion.
To be had of all Storekeepers,
Gunsmiths and Merchants.
Write to W. A. Cox, Q.P.O. Box 873, Sydney, for Booklet, post free.
\.r
A
v
His Country Seat.
Built to his own whim and
fancy untaxed by local irritation
—leased for life !
Such is the estate of the cyclist
who rides a Brooks’ Saddle.
His lands are all lands ; his
the joys of eternal spring!
Of all Dealers.
WILL ANDRADE for PLAYS.
8 POPULAR FARCES
FOR AMATEURS.
Contents—
Turn Him Out.
Box and Cox.
Popping the Question
That Rascal Pat.
A Kiss in the Dark.
A Regular Fix.
My Turn Next.
The Loan of a Lover.
All these are IN ONE
VOLUME for 1/-;
Post Free, 1/2.
The 125 Best Card
Tricks, 1/8; Irish Jokes
and Witty Sayings, lOd. ;
Brough’s Secret of Stage
Make-Up, 1/4; Sixteen
Amusing Farces, 1/1 ;
Thirteen One-Act Farces,
1/1 ; Twenty Humorous
Dialogues, 1/1 ; Home
Amusements, 1/1; “How
Old Hose Counted the
Eggs” and 116 Other,
Humorous Recitations,
1/1 ; Famous Dramatic
Recitations, 1/1 ; “How
Sockery Set a Hen" and
other Comic Recitations,
1/1 ; Famous Dialect Re-
citations, 1/1 ; 1401 Con-
undrums and Riddles,
1/1 ; Art of Ventrilo-
quism, 1/1 ; Hypnotism,
Mesmerism and Clairvoy-
ance, 1/1 ; Amateur Con-
EASY CONJURING TRICKS.
v)
U
Diminishing:
Cards.
Ordinary
Playing:
Cards, which
are apparent-
ly ‘squeezed’
smaller and
smaller till
they dissolve
altoge t h e r.
Complete,
with full in-
struct i on s;
anyone can
work them.
2/9,
posted 3/-
Other Easy Card Tricus are:—(l) Wizard of the
North, and (2) The Two-from-Flve, 6d. each-
posted Bd. Above 3Tricks, post free anywhere, 4/.’
Mention The Bulletin. juring Book, 7d.
Above prices include postage to any address.
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.'-*!
Stamps or Postal Notes of an}' State will do.
Catalogues
FREE.
201 BOURKE MELBOURNE. ..
QUIRK’S
AIR CAS
mmmmm
•"V ~ ■ •*,
»*»«<* V - whK
Pf*
4
>
H*
I , *j * •.
..••■■• ' •' ' ’ •"■ *
Interior of Quirk’s Factory, showing Machines in course of construction
"We Manufacture 2 Machines every day.
Over 1200 Machines already installed in Australia
ONE OF HUNDREDS OF TESTIMONIALS: _ ~
_ ralbragar, Dubbo, Jan. 6, 1913.
Dear Sirs, —It is now about four months since your Air Gas Machine was installed in my
residence. Its efficiency has exceeded all expectations ; for light, economy, cleanliness, as well as
for cooking purposes, it is the best that I know of. My 20-Light Machine provides sufficient
light for all purposes, in addition to supplying gas for the stove. To be able to do all cook-
ing by gas in a country home at a moderate cost is a convenience that must appeal to anvone
making a gas installation, especially when domestic help is at such a premium. Wishing'you
all the success that your machine merits. —I am, yours faithfully, (Sgd.) F. C. WAKE.
Directors:
Hon. THOMAS WADDELL, Chairman.
Sir JAMES GRAHAM, K. 8., M.D.
JOHN STINSON, Esq.
JOHN HAIN, Esq.
W. M. QUIRK, Esq., Managing Director.
548-550 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE, VIC.
68 Grenfell Street,
ADELAIDE, S.A.
Write for Catalogue giving full particulars
Messrs. QUIRK’S LIGHTING
and ENGINEERING LTD.,
117 Pitt Street.
SYDNEY.
116 Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE, Q.
Dalgety & Co.,
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Reduce the Cost of Trustee Administration by appointing .
THE PERMANENT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
LIMITED,
TRUSTEE COMPANY
17 O’Connell St.,
BYDNEY.
Incorporated 1888 bj’ Special Act of Parliament to act as
Trustees, Executors, Attorneys, Agents, Etc.
ESTATES, PROPERTIES, FUNDS, Etc., MANAGED EFFICIENTLY • AND ECONOMICALLY.
Full Particulars on Application.
A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
THE fICCORDEON for Country Residents.
Ħ
We don’t believe any Accordeon conies
so near perfection as the Celebrated
STAR Trombone Accordeon.
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
larg-e bellows protected by steel corners ; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
D p J f* .p •§
" 1 ■ *
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price £1 7s. 6d.;
postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical
Instruments. Watches, Jewellery, etc.,
210 QUEEN STREET —BRISBANE
Make it a habit—use
regularly.
H
Perfect sanitation being so necessary for health, disinfection
is imperative. Make a practice of using IZAL every day-
just a little, diluted with water —pouring it down drains,
sinks and w.c. s, and sprinkling it in dustbins or other
harbours of filth. Get IZAL, because it positively kills disease
germs, stops infection and instantly removes bad smells.
IZAL—the guaranteed disinfectant of unrivalled
Strength is the pioneer modern high power germicide.
W
Officially adopted throughout
the British Empire.
Mixes equally well with
salt, brackish or fresh
water.
Write for Free Booklet—
“ Practical Disinfection.”
Agents:
T. K. STEANES,
J 7-43 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Si
Mil Ml Hu
L\ 111 I I TJ
n.\ 111 11
One Gallon of
IZAL makes
400 gallons of
efficient disin-
fecting fluid.


A Strong
Tonic
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is a tonic,
a strong tonic. It is not a
stimulant. There is not a
drop of alcohol in it. But it is
a regular tonic, gives tone and
strength to the whole system.
Improves the appetite, aids
digestion,steadies the nerves.
Ayer's
Sarsaparilla
SOLD FOB | 60 YEABS
Be sure to keep the bowels reg-
ular. Daily movements are neces-
sary to good health. Constipation
interferes with the action of any
tonic. Regulate your bowels with
Ayer's Pills. Dose, one pill, only
one, Ask your doctor.
Prepared by DR. J. C. AYER & CO..
Lowell, Mass.. U. S. A.
THE PIPE OF THE WORLD
WINNER OF ALL FIRST
PRIZES UP-TO-DATE.
Pipes (GBD) Pipes
No. 914.
TO Be BOUGHT FROM
ALL TOBACCONISTS.
INSIST ON
GETTING
(GBlJ)
/
o«
/
Ĥ
oUR
PIPES
DEFY ALE
IMITATORS
THERE ARE
TWO THINGS
THEY CANT
PRODUCE
(1) OOR QUALITY
(2) OUR SHAPE.
WE CAN' PROVE ALL WE ADVERTISE.
CARTRIDGES
-essential
to good sport.
Good cartridges may
not always suffice to
ensure good sport, but
good sport is out of the
question without them.
ELEY Cartridges do all that the best
cartridges can do in this direction, with a
trustworthiness which has won for them
a measure of success greater probably
than any other cartridges in the world.
Two 'Eley Loaded* Cartridges:
Elcy ‘Acme’
A bright orangeg-inch
deep-shell Cartridge
loaded with Eley
(42-gr.) Smokeless.
Eley ‘Eloid’
A light maroon Cartridge
Loaded withEley (33 gr)
Smokeless. Light recoil;
absolutely waterproof.
Ħ
The above, and other Eley
Specialities, may be ob-
tained from all Gunmakers
and A mmunition Dealers.
Eley 8r0».,Ld.. London
Ensr.
/
r\R.UNKENNESS Cured.
Any lady can cure the most violent drunkard—secretly— at home. GOLDEN
has co or taste, and can be taken by the most delicate person
of either sex. It totally eradicates all craving for stimulants, creating a last-
. antipathy to alcohol in a few weeks. Many cases are cured in a few days
with this treatment. . . Send 2d. stamp for FREE SAMPLE and full particulars.
THE GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO., DEPT. 4, MARKET STREET, SYDNEY,'N.S.W.
14<
"3 s , &
S'
:y.
<3^
A Well-Rounded Bosom
Is the Pride and Joy of Ail Women.
No woman need remain flat and undeveloped, thin, and
miserable. Your weight can be increased, and bust developed
f° normal. It is done for hundreds of others, and can be as
readily done for you. If your bust lacks development and
hrmness, and your arms, neck and shoulders are thin and
scrawny, even though your face is pretty, you invariably take
second place to your more fully-developed, full-bosomed asso-
ciates in your own social set. It will always be so unless you
correct the imperfections in your figure. Send a 2d. Stamp
for a Free Sample of Dr. Falliere’s Flesh-Food, and our free
book which tells how. Flesh-Food is harmless to use, and the
treatment rapidly and permanently develops a poor figure to
normal. Thousands endorse it. Full particulars free.
T ALLIERE IXESH-FOOD CO., 1103 Ash Street, Sydney (rear Equitable Life Building)
VARICOSE
VEINS
IN THE LEGS
ABE
CURABLE
C OR many years
1 past, Vari-
cose Veins have
been looked upon
as generally incur-
able, except with
the assistance
of the surgeon’s
knife, and those
who understood the
subject realised
that method to be
one of procrastina-
tion only, as the
trouble invariably
returns. Not so
with the modern,
painless met ho d
that cures perman-
ently.
The VECSEY METHOD of TREATMENT
absolutely cures the worst cases by external appli-
cation only. A method of cure that gives no
unpleasant trouble, and that is painless and effi-
cacious to the utmost degree... Only those who
suffer, and those who have seen manv cases, can
realise the dreadful affliction that Varicose Veins
are. A painless cure, without laving up, is,
under the circumstances, a positive boon to
humanity. Hundreds endorse it, and you should
learn all about it if you are a sufferer.
FREE BOOK. FREE ADVICE.
Let us send you our Free Book, which gives full
particulars of this truly wonderful remedy. Send
2d. stamp to pay part postage on same' to anv
address. Consultation and Advice FREE. Call
if possible.
THE VECSEY VA ftlX-ARIUM, 3103 Ash Street, Sydney.
!®lll!llll I
It pays to have nothing
but .he best paint used
on your * property—
whether it be House, Barn, Motor
Car or Cart—because the best wears
longest, and it is labour, not paint,
that costs the money. There is a
special “Berger” Paint made for
every surface—for Houses, Farm Buildings,
Carriages, Motor Cars, and Wagons, for Wood,
Plaster, Metal or Stone— A
and each is the
best paint made
(or its purpose.
On Sale tArovyhouf
the Commonuealt/L
Mr name of focal aqenl
send a post card zo
Levi* Berger & Sons (Australis) LtcL,
I*. YOUNG STREET. SYDNEY.
(WHOLEJAtX ONLY)
H
STOP
SMOKING!
MOST MEN would cure themselves of the
Tobacco habit if they knew they could
do so easily and without discomfort.
It takes but ten minutes for tobacco to
change the beats of the heart. To keep it up
is to tempt death by Heart Disease, Nervous
Collapse, Tobacco Cancer, and Stomach,
Liver or Kidney Disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless, vege-
table remedy that will make the user of
tobacco in any form absolutely abandon the
habit for good. It not only destroys the crav-
ing, the desire, the appetite for tobacco, but
restores to health the entire nervous system,
and aids nature in entirely eliminating from
the system the Nicotine Poison.
You Can Try It FREE.
Send 2d. Stamp, and we will post you a
FREE SAMPLE, also our FREE BOOKLET
—“The Tobacco Habit and Its Consequences.”
Mr. Frank Ford (Blackall P. 0., Q’land)
ivrites: “I was a heavy smoker for 65 years,
but after taking your treatment for H days I
gave the pipe up for good, and never think of
smoking now.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G. 107 Castlerajh St., Sydney.
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS
i
11 hi
Packed Free. Carriage Paid direct from
our Factory to your Port. Ten Days’ Free
Trial. B est British-made MEAD
Coventry Flyers
Defiance Puncture-Resisting or Dunlop
Tyres. Coasters, Variable-Speed Gears,
B.S.A. Free Wheels, Flyer or Brook's
I Saddles, etc. _ _
'SiftlS £3.10 .o £9
Tyres and accessories at half usual prices.
Write at once, using sufficient postage, for
Free Art Catalogue and Speciat
Offer on sample machine.
Agents wanted.
MEAD
CYCLE COMPANY,
Dtpt. 280. LIVERPOOL*
AGENT for MEAD
VAL. D. COLE, Book Arcade,
LARGE STOCKS ON HAND.
CYCLES-
Melbourne.
ALL MODELS
Tlie-Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
in use since 15®6.
cures
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free-or write
fi. GREEN. 210. Lambeth Road. London, Eng.
P\GES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea
ture of The Lone Hand no woman i-
city or country should miss.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Have yon grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonial*
regarding our Patent
AIR CUBHION APPLIANCE
Never mind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men. women <fc children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
343 Collins.st., Melbourne, Vic.
uw
The Friend of
Suffering Humanity
Solomon
Solution
Brings speedy, sure relief in most cases of
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Gout and kindred
troubles—and will cure the most obstinate
case if persevered with. Invaluable also
Sprains, Cuts, and many other simple ills.
2/6 Jars obtainable from your Chemist or Store-
keepers; post free for 3/- from
SOLOMON COX & SON
439 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Joy Bringer.
As the rain sweeps down from rampart hills
With the gladful music of countless rills,
lo flood the creek and flush it clear
Ot the debris and dust of a shrivelled year,
So into our days,
With happy amaze,
Lame the gay disperser of waifs and strays,
And memory-silt of the past, dead days. '
M elcome the ring of his voice as song
riotous waters that surge along;
And his bass of merriment rumbled out
Like thunder portending the end of drought;
While, as he laughed,
It seemed we quaffed
The blood of the grape, and that each care
YY as drowned in the purple of beakers rare.
As grass-blades rise at the call of rain
In their emerald jackets upon the plain,
And crickets right merrily serenade
The wind as it plays with each lancet-blade.
So our joy found birth,
And we sped from dearth
O er beckoning prospects of golden hours
With the verve of a spirit we felt as ours.
Then he rose and faced for the closing day—
For the mystic light of the western way;
But ours was the gain of a world grown
new
With the ample gift of a gracious dew,
Of scintUlant thought,
And courage caught
From the master-spirit who swept away
The morbid fears of a sombre day.
S. AUSTRALIA.
CLAUDE MELVIN.
The Song of the True Milkmaid.
I do not wish that I should be
Regarded as a Queen of May,
Bucolic joys are not for me,
I find no bliss in new-made hay;
I love the airs that murmur free
Along the crowded asphalt way,
The breeze with many skirts a-bloom
That lifts the tufted ostrich plume.
I do not want to drive at eve
The brindled heifer through the gate,
To watch the twisted gum trees weave
Large shadows where the milkers wait;
I never really can believe
In things that rural poets state,
But I am glad to hear the sound
Of honking cars where wheels go round.
I never want to see a cow
Again in all my earthly days;
I dream of light, and stir, and row
That linger in the city ways;
The moon upon the mountain’s brow
Shall never move my soul to praise,
But I should love the lights aglow
Where Algernon and Cissy go.
I want to know my dress will fit,
To hear the chatter of my kind,
In crowded stalls at night to sit
While actor-folk improve my mind,
And ordered legs to music flit
Around a plot that none can find,
Or large throats warble out for me
Bunches of catchy melody.
I want to eat delightful things
At pleasant tables, cool and bright;
To hear a sound of trembling strings
Aiding digestion with delight;
I want to taste the wine that flings
Its sparkle on the flashing night;
Some costly gems I want to wear
About my neck, and arms, and hair.
Alas ! I lace my blucher boot.
And shameful is the thing I do,
To set a small and rosy foot,
That ought to wear a number two,
In leather shapeless as the brute
On whose dull carcase once it grew—
A Cinderella most forlorn
I go to tramp the mire of morn.
Oh, for a week of life replete
With all the things I have not here!
These days go by on laggard feet,
And every month is like a year;
I want to know the changing street,
The hum of voices in my ear,
I want to know that I am free
From dishes, pails and Strawberry.
N.s.w.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.
The Happy Wowser.
This life is mostly dull routine ;
For “breaks” one pays in coin or worry;
Around the corners idlers lean.
And watch the civilised machine,
Till some excitement makes them hurry;
A street arrest, a fighting drunk,
An accident, a row, a fire —
Before they sadly go to bunk,
Some thrill like this they all desire.
They lack imagination. That’s
The reason of their nightly waiting,
Till ruffled and ejected cats,
Flung out with slams and hostile “Scats !
Into the frosty night come skating.
They see no harm or fun in things
That turn the watching Wowser livid,
And make him do wild Highland flings.
His seething mind is fresh and vivid.
The calm and seasoned sinner who
Sustains his part in Life’s drab drama,
Enjovs a play or book that’s blue.
(He pays up gladly for it, too,
To Paris or to Yokohama.)
The lucky Wowser goes his way,
Collides with Life and leaps and bellows ;
He gets more cheap excitement, say,
Than less imaginative fellows.
If ev’ry mile one got a shock,
And ev’ry grove held thrills galvanic,
If shudders' lurked behind each rock,
We would not make a yawning flock „
Round “daring acts” and fights “titanic.
Poor jaded souls! What are our shows
But silly shams at graded prices!
Real fun the watching Wowser knows;
He ’tis who most enjoys our vices.
N.S.W.
THE RELIGIOUS EDITOR.


FOR SLEEPING IN and SLEEPING OUT.
The Collapsible STRETCHER
WARDROBE
FITTED WITH OUR PATENT
BICKFORD ADJUSTABLE DOORS.
The front and sides of
this \yardrobe are so ar-
ranged that they can be
thrown open in almost
any position, thereby pro-
tecting the sleeper from
strong light or draught.
When not in use for sleep-
ing, it can be closed to
appear, and be used as,
an ordinary wardrobe.
A BOON TO
OUT-DOOR SLEEPERS.
CALL IN AND INSPECT
MARCUS CLARK & CO. Ltd.,
Central Square, Opposite Railway Station, SYDNEY.
SI
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. 6d. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
4
SOON
FINISHED
Your time is valuable so is your energy, do
not waste either especially when there is no need
to, save both and do your polishing with Shi-
Noleum.
Shi-Noleum gives a bright lasting surface
to Linoleums, Wood Floors and Furniture—it
is easy to use and preserves in a wonderful way,
Beware of Imitations
GUNS RIFLES
SINGLE BARREL BREECH LOADING,
20/-, 22/6, 25/-, 35/-, 40/-; Ditto,
Ejector, 22/6, 25/-, 35/-, 45/-
THE NEW WEBLEY, semi-hammerless,
42/6; S.B. Hammerless, 45/-
DOUBLE BARREL BREECH
LOADERS.
BONEHILL, 70/-; Ditto, Crossbolt,
£4/15/-
HOLLIS, 80/-; Ditto, Crossbolt, £4/15/-,
£4/17/6, £5/5/-
CASIIMORE, £5/12/6, £7/5/-
HOLLOWAY, BOSWELL, PURDY, etc.,
to £4O.
HAMMERLESS GUNS, from £lO.
A.P. GUARANTEED GUNS, £6/6/-, £7/7/-,
£9/9/-, £ll/11/-, to £4O. Legally
signed guarantee.
BROWNING AUTOMATIC GUN, £B.
WINCHESTER AUTOMATIC, £7/10/-
Postage—Guns, 5/2.
STEVENS’S “EITTEE SCOUT,” 10/6;
“CRACKSHOT,” 15/-; “FAVORITE,”
27/6; VISIBLE E'O ABING
REPEATER, 35/-
“REJIINGTON,” 12/6; HAMMEREESS
REPEATER, 42/6; “SPECIAL TAR-
GET,” 70/-
“F.N.” RIFEES, 16/6, 25/-, to 51/-
“8.5. A.” RIFEES, 32/6, 50/-, 70/-
“MAREIN” REPEATING RIFEES, 60/-
up.
“WINCHESTERS,” 14/6, 18/6, 20/-, 24/-;
Repeaters, 42/6; 57/6, 60/-, 65/-
“BAYAItD” SEMI-AUTOMATIC, 18/6;
Automatic Rifles, .22, 90/-; .32, .35,
£5; .351, £7; 9m/m, £9.
AUTOMATIC PISTOLS.
BROWNING, WEBLEY, BAYARD, MAU-
SER, SAVAGE, COET, REFORM, etc.,
25/-, 50/-, 60/-, to £5/10/-
Postage—Rifles, 4/3.
ALCOCK g PIERCE,
Gun and Cartridge Makers and Importers,
318 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE
THe Famous BOOMERANG Mouth Organ
Sweet, Strong, Loud, Perfect and Tuneful.
A L flf XT's S YS TI M
» was,o «Sfe!Bßai
OOMERANG
“BOOMERANG GRAND,” large size 6/6, small 3/6
“PROFESSIONAL,” large size 4/-, small size 2/-
“ BOOMERANG,” large size 2/6, small size 1/6.
“POCKET BOOMERANG,” 1/-, post free.
“ ARCH-BELL BOOMERANG," with 40 reeds, 2 bells,
price 5/6 ; 80 rds., 2 bells, 10/- ; 160 rds., 4 bells, 17/6.
TRADE SUPPLIED.
CAUTION—Mouth Organ Artists
and Learners are respectfully cau-
tioned against unscrupulous Shop-
keepers, who try to “ talk in ” the
customer by offering him inferior
goods, which are only a weak imita-
tion of the “BOOMERANG,” the
Monarch of Mouth Organs. If your
man has not a “BOOMERANG”
Mouth Organ—the one you came for
—walk straight out; don’t accept
the spurious substitute with the
shopkeeper’s assertion “just as
good,” and get the “ BOOMER-
ANG ” from another store.
5?
ALBERT & SON, 137-9 King Street, Sydney.
Z
%
i'll
a
V.
■-JK
X
v*>
4 '/-
u
The Greatest
Mileage
at the
Smallest
Cost.
MOTOR
TYRES.
“MADE RIGHT TO RUN RIGHT.”
PRICE LIST and ALL DETAILS ON REQUEST.
!^' Rubber Co. Ltd.
270 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY; and at MELBOURNE.
V*
?5/>e
IMPERIAL
TYPEWRITER
£ll/llj-
A first-grade machine, British-built in the largest typewriter manufactory
in the Empire, and unsurpassed for durability and speed. Although it
weighs only 141 b., and costs only jQiijnj-, we guarantee that no
machine at any price will do better work or last longer. The
IMPERIAL has made the high-price typewriter a fad.
• • •
ABRIDGED SPECIFICATION: Visible writing; two-color vibrating
ribbon • hardened steel type; roller-bearing carriage; ribbon release; back-
spacer; changeable type; all languages; instantly adjustable line-feed, .
Write for fully-illustrated Catalogue (post free) to
READ & CAMPBELL LTD., 40 Pitt St., Sydney.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 34.—N0. 1724.
THURSDAY. FEBRUARY 27, 19137
Pkkjb Go.
THE CROWDED TRACK.
The election being almost in sight the great Liberal Party decides to hew its way to victory


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Mac-
leod, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets,
Mosman, for The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214
George Street, Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business, 1384 Centrai.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum . . . . . . £l6 0
Half-yearly 0 13 6
Quarterly. . 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings Sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year. _
Cheques. Drafts, etc., which should be crossed, am
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some
care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin/-’ is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the form
of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short
Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Australian sub-
jects, and not exceeding two columns in length, or,
say, 8000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs',
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded with-
out stamps for return it will be understood that the
copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Personal
applications for return of MS. cannot receive atten-
tion. The Bulletin desires, further, those sending
MS. to distinctly understand that it is not respon-
sible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash, of
sufficient merit and interest and adapted for direct
reproduction, or any interesting photograph illus-
trafive of a current event, will be paid for same on
acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea, but
unfitted fov dived Tepvoduction — i.cany pictuvc
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver
8.C.; G. S Forsyth and Co., 1,1,1 Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B C
U.S.A.— Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street
San Francisco; C. IF. Jewett, Utah. U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency corner Fifth and D Streets. San Diego,
< sag5 ag City heps Co.. San Francisio; Quaker
;Lf“ :s „ Co -> Philadelphia, U.S.A. ; IF. E. Lenehan, 585
D)th S-reet, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago. USA
Egypt.— lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Kong N ° KoNG ' — Brewer an d Co., Pedder Street, Hong
Ceylon.— lF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo. ’
Aftents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland. Tas-
mania and New Zealand; and on account of Messrs
Atkinson and Co., and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide—at
•4/6 per doz. nett.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6iin
x ll,in. and gelatine transparencies, will be forwarded
desired CCltWn ' Larger metal plates can be supplied if
Postage Rates.
Single Copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) .-—throughout the Commonwealth New Zea
land, Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Ilowe Islands lOoz id.; United Kingdom. All Sea
Route, lboz. Id. Only one newspaper should be en-
rlos-’d in packet — otherwise. Boz. id., and Bioz.
to lOoz.. 21d.; lOoz. to 12oz. Bd.; elsewhere, lioz ~ld
and id. each additional 2oz. ' ’’
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1913.
MORE ABOUT THE HIGH COST OF
GIVING.
On a recent summer morning, when the sun
was bright, and the sky was blue, and the
sea was green, and the surf-bathers were wet
and gay, and the tram-cars were making the
same old disturbance, no less than 35 women
wrote in collaboration to the Sydney morn-
ing papers about the alleged high cost of liv-
ing. They said, among other things, that
the cause of the alleged high cost of living
is the tariff, and that if it was obliterated
off the face of the earth with an axe all
would be well. Incidentally, they remarked
that woman is instinctively a Freetrader,
which was another way of‘saying that she
is by nature a bargain-hunter, and if she can
buy sweated and non-union boots from
Greece at Is. less than the old local price,
she regards the shilling as so much gained,
even though the importation of sweated
Greek boots has caused her bootmaking hus-
band to lose his job and his wages. In these
days the cost of living is a subject of gen-
eral concern in Australia, and especially in
N.S.W. The Government is having the
matter inquired into, and great masses of
evidence struggle forward daily to the effect
that something or another is more expensive
now than it used to be. The statement
seems feasible enough, for it is possible to
trace the price-lists of England back with
fan accuracy for 600 or 800 years, and prices
have been rising all the time. So have
wages and rent, while the only thing that
has had a fairly general downward tendency
is the rate of interest. Therefore, the hope
of doing good by an inquiry into current
prices is limited. The very first matter to
ne inquired into is why the old innkeeper of
f alestine was willing to take in the wounded
traveller when the Good Samaritan left 2d
tor his board, when the Australia Hotel
would want at least £lO deposit.
In some countries, when boots or soup or
beiltoppers go up in price, the blame is laid
on the President, and somebody shoots at
him. In others the responsibility is laid
on Providence' or the Devil. In others,
again, it is laid on the tariff, and there is
® clamor of 35 or more uninformed women
that the community should freely admit
foreign, cheap-labor products, and thus kill
local industries, so that the workman’s wife
may see lower-priced goods in the shop-
windows, but be unable to pay for them, be-
cause the old man has lost his billet. A
quaint conviction exists in certain quarters
that it would pay Australia better if it only
got half as much as it does at present for
the food it exports, that being the necessary
and logical outcome of the cheap food craze.
I or no one seems to have yet discovered how
to get the local loaf at 2d., while the ex-
ported loaf fetches 4d., and in a country with
a surplus of food for export dear food pays
vastly better than the cheap article. A con-
siderable section of the cheap food party is
also the high wage party, and it toils hard
to find out how the cost of producing the
food may be constantly shoved up, while the
price of the food is simultaneously shoved
down. The husbands of the 35 women who
lately clamored in the Sydney Preetrade
press about increased prices are—supposing
them to be skilled artisans —receiving about
twice the remuneration they or their kind
could command under the alleged blessings
of Freetrade about the year 1896, and
unless somethin? gigantic has been done
1 ?- ln^er^r P by way of improving ma-
eliminating the middleman, it is
difficult to see how the goods they turn out
can be produced at the old figure. At times
gigantic things are done by improved
machinery—for instance, Eli Whitney’.S
cotton gin enabled one nigger to do as much
work at cleaning cotton as previously occu-
pied 1500 or 2000 niggers, and thus it made
10 shirts more attainable than one had been
before, and changed the whole course of
United States history. But nothing abso-
lutely _ staggering has been accomplished in
this direction of late years. Again, a great
deal can be done in the way of eliminating
the middleman, especially by substituting
local for foreign industry, so that the great,
rich, expensive, bloated wholesale importer
may be obliterated, and the small, local
buyer may deal directly with the local manu-
facturer. But the cheap food crowd appears
rather to admire the importer—the worst
and most useless type of middleman—and to
desire his preservation. It is really diffi-
cult to see what can be done for the cheap
food party unless it can devise something
wholly marvellous in the way of new ap-
pliances, so that higher wages and lower
cost may go together, or achieve something
never yet dreamt of in the wav of economy
or distribution. The pay of the Australian
artisan has increased very largely during the
last 15 or 17 years. His prospects of get-
ting a steady job have increased also.
Despite the higher cost of living he lives
much better than he did, and after living
much better he has a far larger surplus, as
the savings bank returns clearly show. Thus
the Sydney rockchopper, who, not very long
ago, collected about Is. or Is. 2d. per hour,
is now asking as much as 45., and seems
likely to get it. (Considering the danger of
his calling he probably deserves it, but that
is another matter.) Although the price of
drains must needs go up under these condi-
tions. even the most indignant rockchopper
will hardly allege that he isn’t a little better
off than he was in the deadly old Freetrade,
low-wage days of Is. per hour. The extra
cost is no reason why the country should
sack its rockchopper and import cheap
drains, from China. The industrial situa-
tion is not ideal, but it is so much
improved under partial Protection, high
wages and increased prices as compared with
the times of Freetrade, low nrices. mean
wages, soup-kitchens, sand-shifting jobs, rail-
painting jobs, beggar-haunted streets, and
starvation, that it is unwise to go swiping
an axe at the basis of things.
If the actual toiler could secure the full
value, of his toil—which is a return to the
question of the obliteration of the middle-
man and co-operation became the universal
order, and the said co-operation was better
managed than it sometimes is. then there
would be every prospect of further improve-
ment for the mass of the people. But it
must be stipulated that the co-operatinu is
well managed. Robinson Crusoe and the
old-time. Australian aborigines and the Rue
Australia settlers in Paraguay got all they
produced without any deduction for rent, in-
terest, or dealers’ profits, and some of them
even escaped taxes, yet their wealth was
never overwhelming. In fact, they were
all-round failures. Many Australian rail-
way employees seem to get actually more
than they can produce while the article they
turn out —locomotion —is sold at the present
cheap rate, so when working expenses are
paid, the lines show a loss. When the
worker gets the entire selling value of what
he turns out, he will be well off provided he
works sufficiently, and sells intelligently,
and doesn’t run his business like that famous
organ, the Sydney Daily Post, and assum-
ing that. the price of his goods isn’t cut
down to impossible figures by sweated Free-
trade competition. These are important
conditions.
* * ■» *
The fatuous folk who clamor that the
golden road, to cheap living and costly wages,
to high-priced production and low-priced
products lies by way of Freetrade have a
very simple test close at hand. Let them
pass the hat round—the present writer will
put something considerable in it if it is
passed round in good faith by a reliable per-
son—-and send a couple of Australian artisan
families from among their crowd to live and
worii and rely solely on their earnings for a
year or two, say in Glasgow, and then re-
port progress. They will find that many
articles of food are dearer than they are
here, because they consist of Australian or
Maoriland food sold at Australian or Maori-
land prices, with freight added. They will
discover that the cheap living of Bull’s
country is based largely on the art of doing
without things. They will eat meat once or
twice a week, and, incidentally, they will
eat what in Australia they would call offal.
Thev will ascertain that wages are about
half the Australian figure or less, and that
city rents are higher, but they will make
the rents lower by crowding the whole family
into one or two rooms high up in a tene-
ment house, where there is no green thing
in front and no trace of herbage behind. If
it is an old tenement house in the St. Rollox
district of Glasgow, or the Old Town of
Edinburgh, there will be neither a bath nor
a lavatory in the whole rabbit warren. The
family will learn to damp down the fire in
between cooking spells, in order to save fuel.
Also, it will learn many other things. Among
them it will discover that the clamor about
the increased cost of living is just as violent
under Freetrade as it is under Protection.
And it will learn that the cost of living isn’t
everything. In 1911 the British Board of
Trade published the results of a careful in-
vestigation into the condition of the working
classes in Freetrade England, and the Pro-
tectionist United States. The figures look
the public in the eye on pages 416-7-8 of
llazell’s Annual for 1912. The verdict of
the British Freetrade authority was that
wages in leading trades were higher in the
U.S. than in England by 232 against 100—
m other words, they were more than twice
as high.. Rents in the U.S.A. were higher by
209 against 100, which wasn’t so bad a dis-
crepancy by a good long way. The retail
price of a quantity of food, including every-
thing a moderate-sized family might" require
for a week, was higher in the U.S. by 138
against 100, which was a hardly noticeable
discrepancy. The Yankee person might pos-
sibly reduce his cost of living to the J. Bull
figure by adopting the Bull policy, but as
he might then get down to the Bull wage
limit, he doesn’t think the proceeding worth
the candle.
* * * *
Some day, it may be. the cost of living
will be nailed or clamped down, though how
that will be accomplished it is hard to say.
The deed has never been done yet. The ex-
periment should, certainly be tried first in
I reetrade Britain, which, according to the
people who are protesting so violently in
the Australian press, should be an ideal
place for the experiment. Then this coun-
try could hang back and watch results. In
Australia nothing has happened to the tariff
during recent years except its reduction; it
has been reduced by granting very extensive
preferences to the Ma Countfv, and many
articles which were formerly dutiable have
been put on the free list so far as the Ma
Community, is concerned. It is alleged that
this, reduction of duties has been accom-
panied by an increase in the price of exist-
ence both here and in England, and the Syd-
ney Freetrade push demands a further 're-
duction of duties to obviate the increased
expense which followed on the last reduc-
tion. All these matters involve a heap of
doubt. When the theory is advanced that
the sure road happiness is to fol-
low the political methods of Whitechapel
and Shoreditch in London, and the Cowgate
of Edinburgh and the St. Rollox district of
Glasgow, it might be well for Australian
citizens who escaped from these hells, and
who still remember them, to tell their bre-
thren what, the places and conditions are
like. Nothing is gained by an ignorant and
untravelled section of the communitv rush-
ing at things with both hands extended and
its mouth open.
ENGLISH.
The Doctrine of Depopulation.
King O’Malley, the Minister with the
illimitable cowboy hat —provided the his-
toric article isn’t yet worn out —made some
remarks last week about the unemployed,
or alleged unemployed. The explanation of
the man with the Tile of Ages was that
immigration is the cause of unemployment,
and that if there was no immigration all
would be well, and everything in the garden
would be lovely. Supposing this to be true,
it is interesting to inquire what kind of a
country King O’Malley and co. think they
have made of Australia. By the King’s
own account it has become, under their
guidance, such a miserable lost dog of a
place that the present population of much
less than two persons to the square mile is
all that it can carry, and the arrival of a
few immigrants is calculated to make the
industrial ship tip up dangerously and heel
over in a hazardous fashion. Certainly-
Saxony has over 800 persons to the square
mile, and Belgium has 600, but then they
are not governed, in whole or in part, by
any bounding political mountebank in a
cowboy hat. It is about as certain as any-
thing can be that when a country has less
than two persons to the square mile, includ-
ing women, children, cripples, oldest in-
habitants, lunatics and the like, it hasn’t a
force that can even pretend to be reasonably
sufficient for purposes of defence. It is a
mighty poor country that can’t feed enough
people to defend it —such a very poor coun-
try as to be hardly worth defending. And
that seems to be, in the King O’Malley
view, the sort of country that Australia
amounts to. In the circumstances it is a
pity that the great O’Malley doesn’t leave
for some better land —one more suited to the
fertility of his imagination and the richness
of his vocabulary. For either Australia is
naturally not worthy of him, or else he and
his colleagues have made it artificially un-
worthy of anybody. Yet, curiously enough,
this country which allegedly can’t support
any more immigrants, professes to be able
to buy and pay for £75,000,000 worth per
annum of foreign goods, representing the
work of at least a million toilers. That is
to say, it can support 1.000.000 immigrants
so long as they don’t immigrate. If the
country had a larger population and was
better developed it could presumably support
more. When the action of King O’Mal-
ley’s tariff is set against the word of King
O’Malley’s mouth, the inference is that the
convictions of King O’Malley run some-
thing like this: It is feasible for Australia
to-day to maintain at least 1,000,000 more
people provided they are not hero f
taxes to Australia, to help defend Aw
and to supply handy and conventnJ ralla '
tomers for the Australian primary nr s CUs '
if these people come herT»“LS"'„T
to pay taxes here, to defend their
land, to supply adjacent customers fn P^ d
primary producer, and to do here
the same work as they are now fi*
abroad, and to do it for exactly the
customers—well, it seems that King o’\i“ e
i,ey and some other parties have ma<lp
a hash of things that the wholeSlT-
impracticable. At least that seems in i! s
O'Malley’s definition* of T
He holds, apparently, that local industry
will ruin the country—that if looooon
people make goods for Australia abroad thi.
continent will be all right, but if they i
here and try to make the goods here it Si
be all wrong. But perhaps, after all it ;
merely a case of O’Malley swiping ’wildly
with Ins large hat at the blowfly of tiro ,m
stances in the effort to divert attention fm™
the tariff muddle. The tariff holds the h.T
ance so very unevenly between high W n i
wages and low wages elsewhere that chenn
labor goods are now coming in at the „
£75,000.000 worth per annum. This coun
try badly wants the people who make thesp
imported goods—it wants them as citizens
as taxpayers, as customers to the local
farmer, and as defenders. It is always bet
ter that the man whom you pay to make
your clothes and boots and hats should be
your own man who will shoot with you in
time of trouble, not a stranger who will
shoot at you with cartridges bought out of
your own money. But if these artisans are
transferred from the low wage to the hieh-
wage side of the tariff barrier they threaten
to become paupers—dependents on public
charity. That isn’t their fault, for they are
as good workers here as in any other coun-
tryit is the fault of the fool of a tariff
barrier. Incidentally, it is the fault of the
fools who are responsible for seeing that the
barrier is in good repair. And one of them
is O’Malley —the man who believes in keep-
ing the country empty rather than shutting
out cheap labor goods.
Patent Medicines and the B.M.A.
“Baokblocker” outs forth his more or less
reliable view of the case :
Touching The Bulletin’s assault upon “Secret
Remedies” (20/2/’l3). The pamphlet which made
its appearance in the Australian Parliament, the other
day, was a flagrant piece of special pleading, and like
all such efforts it consisted, to a large extent, of over-
statements of the case. Admittedly, many of the
proprietary medicines do much less ‘than is claimed
for them. Some do nothing at all. But many are of
value to the community. The hostility of the British
Medical Association is not a manifestation of altru-
ism, and a high concern for the bodily and financial
welfare of the struggling masses, but of the business
spirit. The proprietaries have, for years, been com-
mitting the cardinal offence of underselling the doc-
tors and their jackals, the chemists. As an example,
in the good old days of not so long ago, if a man
over-ate or under-exercised, and, as a result, got out
of order internally, he had to fall back on a doctor.
The doctor gave him a prescription with calomel, or
something similar, in it, charged him a guinea, and
passed him on to a chemist—who, in many cases, was
the doctor’s own chemist, inasmuch as he managed
the shop for the former. The chemist’s price for mak-
ing up the prescription was anything up to ss. To-
day, the citizen whose internal organs jib slightly in-
vests in a shilling box of Blank’s Liver Pills, and
does himself as much good as his predecessor did at
25 times that figure. In fact, he is likely to do
himself more good. A sensible man knows his own
constitution better than any stray doctor. It takes
little experimenting for him to understand which of
the many proprietary medicines suits his peculiar
apparatus best. Thereafter, no doctor will provide
him with a better cold cure, or indigestion banisher,
or mosquito bane, or corn remover, or sunburn and
chapped skin eradicator than he can buy for a paltry
sum at any chemist’s. The doctors have been realis-
ing this, more and more clearly, for a long time
past. So have the chemists, who make no more pro-
fit out of selling patent medicines than the publican
does out of selling good whiskies and sodas at six-
pence apiece. And hence the B.M.A. pamphlet on
which the Australian Parliament and The Bulletin
have set the seal of their approval.
Take one of the remedies explicitly mentioned —I
mean Zambuk. In the first place, the proprietors
claim that the analysis of their cure, which is given
in “Secret Remedies” is incorrect—the two chief and
most costly ingredients being left out. But setting
that question aside, the thing is unquestionably a use-
ful remedy for burns, scalds, cuts, abrasions and a
dozen other mishaps of the sort. Poor people can’t
afford to go to a doctor every time one of these mis-
fortunes smites them. And if they did, about the
only difference between the ointment he would give
them and the proprietary-made article would be in
the matter of price. So they keep a tin of Zambuk,
or one of the dozen other like healing ointments that
are on the market, in the house.
Very often these patent concoctions are composed
of the best of drugs. The explanation is that the
difference in price between the best and the worst
is not great, and where you are dealing wholesale it
pays to give the best. Chemists’ shops differ in
virtue as widely as pubs. The prescription which, if
made up in (say) Paddington, will be mild and
anaemic, may, on being handed to a Balmain practi-
tioner, be resolved into something with a kick like a
mule. Some chemist’s drugs are good, some old and
fly-blown and bad. The public takes a chance always.
Proprietary medicines are nothing if not uniform.
You get the same goods, in this line in Timbuctoo or
Pekin, that you do in London or New York.
Before coming to a final decision on this question
it behoves the public to appreciate the real cause of
this sudden outburst of virtuous rage, against the
proprietaries, on the part of the B.M.A. If it > s
established that the whole uproar emanates from sor-
did motives of gain, it becomes clear that a lot of the
evidence is more than likely to be tainted. I sav that
financial considerations are not only the chief, but
practically the whole basis of the row. The doctor
has been charging big money for his services, wher-
ever he thought it was obtainable, and the chemist
has been putting an extortionate figure on his wares.
Wherever prices are absurdly high, in any generally-
demanded line, someone may be relied on to come
along and cut them down —to the fury, naturallv, of
the monopolists. The doctors’ union (the 8.M.A.)
and the powerful, though unwritten, understanding
that exists among the chemists makes underselling a
practical impossibility in their ranks. And so the
patent medicine man has come on the scene.
A Matter that Matters a Lot.
Melbourne Argus reports at length a lec-
ture by A. Lewis, organiser of the Victorian
Carters and Drivers’ Union, on “Freetrade
or Protection —Does it matter which?” Mr.
Lewis arrived at the conclusion that it
didn’t matter 2d., or less —but unfortunately
the Argus omitted to correct him, where-
fore this writer draws his attention to a
point or two. At first glance the question
may not appear to matter much to a carter
or driver, though in reality it does —a whole
lot. But some of us don’t cart and drive;
and we want interesting, intricate, skill-
demanding occupations—shipbuilding. , eu "
gineering, steel rolling, weaving, spinning
and a hundred others —and we don’t and
can’t get them under Freetrade. Besides
being more attractive, these occupations are
better paid than carting and driving, and a


man of brains and energy has a chance in
them to rise to a height of something over
6ft. from the ground, which is about the
limit of a carter and driver’s leaping capa-
city. Anyhow, the tariff matters a lot even
to the carters and drivers who escort coal-
lorries across the landscape. As thus: The
Commonwealth now raises roughly £12,000,-
000 a year to keep it from insolvency’ and
in future it will have to raise ever more and
more. The genuine Protectionist proposes to
raise a mere trifle of this through the tariff
—he knows that if all the manufactures that
should exist in a country are in a thriving
condition there will be comparativelv few
imports to tax, but that vastly more wealth
will remain in the country on which, by in-
come, land and other taxes, he can levy' toll.
The carter and driver person, like all who
cannot afford it, will pay very little, if any,
of these taxes. The Freetrader, however,
proposes to raise, his £12,000,000 and more
by a revenue tariff, under which the carter
and driver will pay a good deal. He will
pay nearly if not quite as much as the rich
man on his food and his clothes, and he will
in addition help to pay the rich man’s share
when he pays the rent for the rich man’s
house in which he mostly lives. He will pay
vastly more under Freetrade than he will
under Protection, but he won’t get as good
wages out of which to pay it. The Argus,
of course, knows all this perfectly well, but
it is not exactly the carters and drivers’ ad-
vocate, and naturally keeps silent about it.
The Perished Explorers, Likewise Those
Who Did Not Perish.
From a pressman on the spot:—
The surviving members of Scott’s Polar ex-
pedition who have returned to Maoriland are firmly
locking in their bosoms, or wherever the repository
for these things is, some interesting, and, no doubt,
sensational evidence. Commander Evans and his
men have been besieged by newspaper scribes, but
outside the official story little has been gleaned.
But as every little helps to clear up this Scott ex-
pedition muddle, I pass up this, • gathered despite
Commander Evans’s instructions to those on the
Terra Nova. One thing a considerable number of
people would like to know is more about the death
of Petty Officer Edgar Evans, to whose physical
disabilities on the journey back from the Pole has
been ascribed the subsequent tragedy. This seaman
had bad luck from the start. He did not get away
from Lyttelton in the Terra Nova when the expedi-
tion first started for the South, but he caught her at
the Bluff. If he had missed her there he would pro-
bably be alive to-day. So might Scott and Oates
and Wilson and Bowers. Also they might not. It
it persistently rumored (or was when I was put on
to the job) that Edgar Evans went mad just after
the Pole was reached, and that he was sledged by the
remainder of the party for 300 miles before he died.
Likewise, there was an accompaniment of gruesome
details which would turn a lot of the limelight from
the “deathless heroism” part of the business if it
could be substantiated.
Commander Evans flatly contradicts many oi these
statements, and is at a loss (he states) to know how
they originated. When reminded, that where [here
is smoke there is often fire, he simply shrugged his
shoulders, and adopted a “help-yourself’ attitude. It
is hinted that the records handed out may not have
been strictly accurate, items being omitted
or amended. *When the rescuers under Dr. Atkinson
reached Scott’s tent they were confronted with an
appalling sight. Scott was in a half-sitting posture
leaning against the upright with his hands clasped
behind his head. His diary was open befo',e-
he appeared to have endeavored to record the hap-
penings of the party right up to the end. His sleep
ing bag had fallen down, baring his chest which
was terribly frostbitten, as was his face. The three
bodies in the tent were very emaciated. The only
edible found with them was a tiny P‘" cb of , t( ; a ’
fuel of any description. But it is char that had
there been a couple of days more supplies the men
would have won through Doubtless the’
of the Royal Geographical Society will require som
further information from Dr. Atkinson re
garding his return from One Ton Camp in Marc
last. It is not so difficult to conjecture that Scott
party must have been very close to their final rest
i ne Place about the time Atkinson turned his head
towards Cape Evans. Had Atkinson s pro-
ceeded 11 miles further south (they knewScott_was
late), it might have been in time to save the starving
wretches thereabouts. The reports ' f ur _
which Commander Evans and Dr.' make in-
nish to their responsible executive j s
teresting reading. Their present P March,
they left One Ton Camp for the base last Marcn
owing to the dog food running short Nothing
added to show that the lives of a °Xr were of more
the whole herd of dogs, for that matter were o rno^
importance than finding out wbet overdue ’ then)
*»' Pole-bunt era (the, »e,« * T„i
Scor h /‘ P w. S A n.t .Urtlin.V well-pro-
L th j at b ? was la te in making his dash, and
Twt t * n ? t g , ot: an tk-carat transport scheme,
tacts to the ordinary mind appear to sug-
that, as Scott had not turned up at One Ton
HofTv? v. e nuddle of March, some catastrophe had
P / r . ty ‘ The doctor suggests by his state-
-s*®*' tha * he (Atkinson) had to consider his precious
i °J* e would think they were Pomeranians be-
longing to Lady Ciiolmondeley ue Verb, and that
the locality was Mayfair.
wHn eU jL enan t Campbell’s party had a tough picnic
’ h le , they were shut up in their igloo, although thev
had plenty of blubber and seal hoosh. In fact, they
■ mucb °f it that at the end of their sojourn
in the snowhouse their skins were as greasy as the
seals they had devoured. When it was found that the
party was likely to be held up in the igloo for six
months, at least, the stock of food was weighed and
measured to a dwt., and all hands behaved well
despite the cheerless outlook then. When a ration
of biscuit was handed round, instead of taking the
two and a half apportioned, the men would take one ;
instead of half a pannikin of cocoa, they would
accept a quarter only. At first, it looked a toss-up
whether they would pull through, but as time passed
confidence grew that Scott, when he returned from
the Pole, would see to their succor ! The food which
was discovered in the depot left by Douglas Maw-
son undoubtedly saved the lives of most of the party,
if not all. It looks to have been a gloriously muddled
business all through.
Finger-prints as Hanging Matters
The trial of one Harold Thompson for the
murder of Arthur Trotter (Macßobert-
son’s traveller), in his house at Fitzroy, Mel-
bourne, ended in a verdict of Not
Guilty, and the Fitzroy murder remains
on the list of crimes which have baffled
the unintelligence of Melbourne’s de-
tective force. For the melodramatic arrest
of Thompson in the first instance, the one
and only excuse was the similarity between
a photo of his finger-print, already in the
possession of the police, and a photo of one
particular finger-print, discernible among a
number of prints of fingers belonging, appar-
ently, to different hands, which had been left
on the sill of a back window of the mur-
dered man’s house. And for the subsequent
trial of Thompson on the murder charge,
this one particular print was the only justi-
fication. The man himself differed in age,
height, build and voice from the murderer of
whom Mrs. Trotter gave a fairly good de-
scription. She stated that a coat and hat
found at the prisoner’s lodgings reminded her
of the murderer’s outfit, but could not swear
to both coats being of exactly the same colors
and pattern. Moreover, it was clear that
the clothes of the slim, boyish murderer she
described would not have fitted Thompson’s
powerful figure. There was no evidence of
the prisoner having been near to Trotter’s
house on the night of the murder, or having
ever seen the house in his life, until the
police took him there after his arrest, with
the wild hope that he would tremble and turn
pale. He cheerfully admitted to having been
at a pub, half a mile from Trotter’s house,
up to 11 o’clock on the night of the mur-
der, and he gave a convincing reason why he
had happened to visit that pub. Leaving
there he had “knocked around,” he said, and
then gone to his lodgings and to bed, and
was sleeping the bad man’s sleep beside his
unlawful girl at the time when Trotter was
murdered. The only evidence, worth the
name, that the police could bring against
Thompson was the likeness of his finger-
print to that of the photo of the unaccount-
able print on the window sill, sawn off by the
police expert before the photo was taken.
When in gaol, awaiting his trial, Thompson
asked for another finger-print to be taken and
photoed. This latter differed considerably
from the previous one (which had dif-
fered more or less from the photo of the im-
pression on the window sill), but the police
alleged that he had been detected, at a dis-
tance of 15yds., in the act of rubbing his
finger against a wall behind his back. The
rubbing, if Thompson did it, would probably
account for the difference in the two photos
of his finger-prints, but the supposition
that he had tried to effect a difference merely
suggests that he may have been doing his
best to save himself from being hanged on
evidence which no conscientious citizen
should hang a dog on. The suspicion that
Thompson tampered with his finger in order
to bring the murder charge into derision is
no sort of evidence that he killed the late
Arthur Trotter. But the police advance
the alleged tampering as a suspicious, cir-
cumstance, and, strangely enough, neither
the prisoner’s counsel nor Judge Madden
suggested that it was a quite natural thing
for an innocent man in Thompson’s posi-
tion to have done. Had Thompson made a
statement in his own defence from the dock
he would perhaps have confessed that he
■was “trying to beat the cops,” or words to
that effect, in their attempt to hang him by
one finger. However, he was advised to
make no statement, nor did his counsel call
any witnesses for the defence. The police
evidence was left to prove its own weakness
to the satisfaction of the jury, with the re-
sult that the detectives were duly convicted
of having made another “bloomer. All the
unavailing talk about a mysterious finger-
print in this case should draw the attention
of the Law and the public to a most import-
ant defect in the system of procuring finger-
print evidence. From first to last the only
witnesses are police experts. The print
whereby a prisoner is convicted does not, as
a rule, exist within the knowledge of any-
bodv but the policeman who discovers it. In
the Thompson case, for instance, a police-
man said, “Ha! Ha! prints on a window
sill and then sawed the wood off and took
it away with him, as he would have taken a
pair of strange boots away if they had been
left on the sill by some person unknown.
But the strange boots would be within the
knowledge of the people of the house, where-
as the barely perceptible finger-print is a
matter of police detection only. The ex-
nert’s statement that he found a certain
Anver-print at a certain place is uncorrobor-
ated Only a police expert is prepared to
swear that two different photos represent
the finger-print of one and the same nerson
And he swears easily. For instance, Expert
Potter of Melbourne, admitted under cross-
examination that the photo of Thompson’s
alleged print on the window-sill was dis-
similar to the photo, of his finger-print taken
in the detective office,, “so far as measure-
ment between any tico joints was concerned.
Yet he swore hard, and the other police ex-
perts swore hard, that both Prints had been
made bv the same finger. The science of
identification which is controlled by such
professors as these is a dangerous science for
the Law to dabble in.
Our Lethal Milk Supply.
This paper has frequently remarked upon
the rabid Socialism which characterises the
alleged anti-Socialists in the multitudinous
Parliaments of Australia. With the excep-
tion of a few fanatic incorrigibles of the
Bruce Smith type, they devote three-parts
nf the time they have to spare from assailing
Socialism to an eager chase after the so-
called Menace. There is one occasion, and
one only, on which the Liberal may be relied
on to assaiilt Government Interference good
and hard, and do all in his power to check
it; namely,. when an election draws nigh,
and the activities of the State threaten the
license of the elector to do what he dashed
well pleases. Then the anti-Socialist can be
one of the most consistent politicians going.
For example, at the Berry (N.S.W.) Show,
the other, day, M. F. Morton, M.L.A., re-
marked, amid loud applause from the assem-
bled cockies, that “there was far too much
Government interference with the dairy far-
mers. They were quite capable of carrying
on without anything of the sort.” This is
the variety of guff that wins votes from the
selfish, the ignorant and the unprogressive,
also from those who put a low price on
human life. To persons who know it makes
scant appeal. If the short-sighted cocky
could only get rid of a fragment of the men-
tal astigmatism which now afflicts him he
would, see that, in the long run, the ruthless
imposition of the State hand on his business
is the best thing for his pocket, considerations
of decency, etc., apart. In any case, it is
indisputably the best thing for those of him
who are moderately straight and honest.
Dr. Bobart, of Nowra, put the position
tersely at a Show meal in his district last
week, as follows :
We were being beaten on the London market, which
was the criterion of butter prices, by little Denmark,
which was but half as fertile as Australia. There
was no country that was more Government-ridden than
Denmark —more approaching to Socialism —yet it was
the best in butter production. There were stringent
regulations in Denmark in regard to the maintenance
of dairy herd standard. If a man had not a good
herd there, he had to cast it away ; if he did not,
he would be sent to gaol.
The trouble in Australia is not, as the Lib-
eral Parliamentarian invariably discovers
about election time, too much Government
interference with Private Enterprise, but not
enough. It is especially inadequate in the
milk trade. A day or so ago Dr. Clubbe, a
Sydney doctor who is by way of specialising
in children’s ailments, let fall what one of
the local dailies termed “a bombshell” in
his evidence before the Food Commissioners.
He announced that the Sydney milk supply
was “universally bad.”
“I will undertake to'say that in much of it there
is a higher bacterial count than in ordinary sewage
matter,” observed the doctor. ‘‘The cost of obtaining
clean milk would not be great, but at present the
men engaged in the industry are ignorant of the first
principles of cleanliness. If we doctors operated to-
day on the same principle as a century ago, when
we knew nothing of germs, we should fail. Yet
milking is done on the same principle as a hundred
years ago. In summer weather it is unsafe to feed
children with Svdney - milk. Sydney will never get
an improved milk supply until there is a bacterial
standard; and until the producers are educated to
realise the importance of cleanliness.”
As the Nowra practitioner remarked, Aus-
tralia, with all its advantages, is habitually
beaten in the butter market by Denmark.
The reason is Denmark has a better, because
more stringently State-superintended ar-
ticle, to offer. He might have added that
the supplier of indifferent milk is habitually
beaten in the local market by the man who,
though the State doesn’t compel him to do
so, takes particular care to produce only the
cleanest and the best. There are, fortu-
nately, on the South Coast, as in other
dairying centres, progressive farmers who
laugh the hollow laugh of scorn at the idiotic
“standard test” for milk, now in existence,
and have no truck with anything that does
not give a generous percentage over the test.
They are, in every instance, the most pros-
perous of their kind. They scoop the prize
boards at the different Shows, and bank big
monthly cheques for their milk. The repu-
tation of their herds is profitably high. One
farmer of this type in the Berry district re-
cently sold £l5OO worth of Young Holstein
cattle in four months. His brother bought
a three-year-old Ayrshire bull last year, held
it for six months, and then doubled his
money. In brief, there is profit in clean
dairv-farming. But not every dairy-farmer
will be clean, unless under compulsion. And
hence fhe need for State interference with
him. Such a practice is no hardship as re-
gards the desirable type of cocky. In the
case of the other sort, no consideration should
be shown, even by “right-thinking Liberals”
—no more than is shown to poisoners and
similar malefactors.
» .
The Sydney rockchoppers, whose trade
motto is—or should be—“A short life and a
dusty one,” have just made some fresh
claims, and the Contractors’ Association is
entering the usual protest. At a meeting
of the Association, held last week, one
Gough is reported to have said (S. M. Her-
ald, 21/2/T3), “a great deal of capital had
been made by the men out of the unhealthy
nature of the work, but in his opinion the
reports were exaggerated.” The Lone
Hand magazine, in the issue for July, 1909,
printed an article on the rapid and steady
drift of the rockchoppers towards the ceme-
tery. After interviewing a few poor wrecks
of men in their sick-rooms, the magazine’s
representative went out amongst the jobs
to get the contractors’ side of the story. An
extract from page 317: —
Mr. A. Gough, who had two gangs engaged on deep,
open cuts at Leichhardt, willingly showed the writer
around the work, and gave all information asked for.
In reference to the words, “risk of disease,” used in
the course of talk, Mr. Gough said: “There is no risk
for the man that stays a year or two at rockchopping.
It’s an absolute moral. The deep, open cuts, Mr.
Gough said, “are even more productive of dust dis-
ease than the tunnels. In such works the men
breathed a constant atmosphere of dust. Look, he
said pointing to a cut of eight or nine feet m depth,
in which a row of men chopped at short intervals ;
“there is the dust, and that is what they take in
with every breath. Look at their faces and hair.
Called by name, one of the choppers lifted his
face which was white with the impalpable sandstone
dust that is indubitably the cause of this shocking
mortality among the sewer workers of Sydney.
This paper does not know if the Gough of
1909 is identical with the Gough of 1913;
but it has an idea that the 1909 Gougii had
the right hang of the subject. Perhaps the
Gough of 1913 can produce a mob of hale
and hearty rockchoppers who have spent
several consecutive years at the game and
don’t suffer from pneumokoniosis ( dust dis-
ease”) ? If so, he must be quite a different
Gough.
About the only decent thing in connection
with the unspeakable fezzed person who is
making a sort of last slipshod stand on the
Bosphorus is the tobacco which wears his
name, and the information comes with some-
thing of a shock that various Sultans did
their utmost to prevent smoking among the
Faithful. W. A. Penn tells us that when
the feeling against the weed was strongest
smokers were hunted down, pipes driven
through their cheeks, rolls of tobacco hung
about their necks, and they were taken out
to be hanged mounted face to tail on don-
keys. This was very horrible business, but
it was inspired by a tradition that Mahomet
had foretold the use of tobacco, and had
stated that its users would be infidels. Penn
further states that English sailors took the
smoking habit to Constantinople, but this is
probably a fable. As a fact, there is a lively
dispute as to whether all tobacco really came
from America, or whether Asia grew varie-
ties of its own long before there was any
America on the map. If the Chinese were
smoking about the time of the bang and
crash of Troy, as seems probable, it is
scarcely reasonable to think that the Central
Asiatic Turks got their first whiff from Bris-
tol or London.
+ :
Premier Massey’s land legislation of last
session, by which the Maoriland occupiers of
land under Lease-in-Perpetuity were allowed
to convert their holdings into freehold, is
already showing the black spots in its Tory
nature. In many mineral-bearing areas
Leases-in-Perpetuity were granted at rates
based on the interest at a small percentage
on the surface value. No mineral rights were
given to the leaseholder, but on the contrary
the prospector was given free entrance to any
part of his land and allowed to dig for gold
or coal or anything he fancied might be there.
Even the settler’s homestead was not pro-
tected, and a man with a miner’s right ap-
pears to have had the privilege, if he liked
to use it, of sinking a shaft under the draw-
ing-room sofa. But under Massey’s new
system the tenant of the State is allowed to
purchase the land with complete mineral
rights at a fractional increase upon the price
originally fixed as the capital value of the
surface alone. According to a statement
made by Joe Hanan, in the debate on the
Land Laws Amendment Bill, there is land
in the Auckland province with a surface
value for Lease-in-Perpetuity purposes of ss.
an acre, which has an assessed mineral value
of £5O or £lOO per acre. Such lands the
holder of the lease can now buy right out for
55., and every acre purchased represents a
big loss to the State. But then Massey’s
is a Reform party, which aims at making the
settler manly and independent.
♦
“Montere” : “WArrawee” (B. 23/1/T3)
makes what he calls a practical suggestion
for getting more people to ride in the Syd-
ney trams. It is perfectly true that a great
many fares are never collected, particularly
in George-street during the lunch hour, but
the chance of winning a prize in a State
lottery would hardly smarten up the tired
conductors or induce the people who are in
a hurry to get fed to chase them with- their
pennies. On many of the lines the problem
is not so much how to attract people to get
into the cars, or even make them willingly
pay their fares, but how to carry the people
who want to be taken home to tea. Real
reform would lie quite in the opposite direc-
tion to “Warrawee’s” proposal. The Chief
Commissioner should be forced to recognise
that the expansion of the city is its only
immediate hope. Population chokes the
nearer suburbs and makes them a horror and
a crime against decency, and the population
is likely to stay crowded there because a
pennv is as much as the average citizen can
pay for his tram ride. By a readjustment
of fares all this could be altered. Let the
charge for riding over a single section be
made 4d., that for two sections 3d., for
three sections 2d., and for more than three
sections Id. In this way there would be
sufficient inducement for men to go far out
and live in good air amid wholesome sur-
roundings, and still more inducement for
those who continued to cling to the neigh-
borhood of the city to take a little healthy
walking exercise. Johnson told a deputa-
tion the other day that he must consider the
penny section people first because they make
the tramways pay. This means in , plain
English that he must consider the slum
landlord first and foster the congestion
policy. My scheme would burst up the slum
landlord in one act and do a lot towards
bringing down rents, and if the comfort and
health which would thus accrue to the
people showed as a debit balance in the
tramway accounts —well, the people own the
tramwavs, and health and comfort are worth
paying for.
♦
From Norwegian Consul Pauss :
A contributor to The Bulletin (13/2/T3) makes
some sensational statements as regards illegal over-
loading of the Norwegian vessels engaged in the phos-
phate trade to and from the South Sea Islands. At
the request of the shipmasters, permit me at once to
contradict the statements made therein.
These Norwegian ships are chartered at a lump
sum per month to the Phosphate Company; conse-
quently it is not in the interest of the owners to have
their vessels overloaded, as neither they nor their
shipmasters benefit by it. The masters of the two
vessels engaged in the trade carry, moreover, their
wives, and naturally value their own and their wives’
lives as much as any Australian does his.
On no occasion has any of the ships’ crews, in-
cluding as they do Britishers, Germans and other
nationalities, made any such complaint at this Con-
sulate ; on the contrary, the same fellows re-engage
themselves time after time.
I may also say that I have the deadweight scale of
the vessel referred to in my office, and the figures
given by your correspondent are wrong.
The Consul may be quite right; but his
arguments are not. particularly convincing.
For instance: —
(1) These vessels are chartered for a lump sum
per month. This paper suspects that if an owner
shows that he can carry 1400 tons, he will command
a trifle more lump sum per month than if he can
carry only 1000' tons.
(2) This paper doesn't suppose any master expects
that his ship will go down and drown his wife and
himself. Still, ships do go down. And even captain’s
wives are drowned sometimes.
(3) There never was an overloaded vessel yet that
went out without a crew. The fact that a vessel can
get a crew doesn’t therefore prove that it isn’t over-
loaded.
On the whole, therefore, this paper suspends
judgment —all the more enthusiastically be-
cause Consul Pauss doesn’t dispute tin
other contributor’s statement that the Gov-
ernment Resident Commissioner [at the
Islands] took a hand and put some restru
tions on the manure-ships’ alleged tendency
to sink themselves to the neck og there-
abouts.
Gloaters.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Chief Secretary, Mr. Flowers, has finished
with the Rev. S. D. Yarrington so far as the con-
troversy about opium dens in and around the city is
concerned.
“I have no further time for Mr. Yarrington,”
exclaimed Mr. Flowers this morning, when the
former’s statement at a meeting of the Mission Zone
Fund yesterday was brought under his notice. “1
think he has been sufficiently advertised,” continued
Mr. Flowers. “There are others like him who need
a little advertisement. Mr, Yarrington ought not
to gloat over the fact that there are opium dens. He
should go to the nolice and inform them. It is a
matter for sorrow that he should gloat.”
—Sydney Sun.
The slily sparkling eye denotes
The meek and saintly man who gloats.
The hovering saint in glad distress
Floats round the den of Wickedness.
Wafted on blessed coat-tails, he
Spins round his find of Infamy.
Who drags him backward by the coat
A villain is who spoils good gloat.
And first-class gloat, ’tis very clear,
Is not as plentiful as beer.
Surf beaches still, you’ll kindly note,
Provide some most attractive gloat.
The holy ones, by tram and boat
Towards Manly go to do their gloat.
But those who ecstasy would own
Must do a special gloat alone.
So, like a ferret or a stoat,
The Wowser hunts for hidden gloat.
When found, like some tense pointer, he
Stands o’er his Great Discovery.
Then how he dwells on it and dotes !
Observe him now! He gloats! He gloats!... .
Now see we how he kept the trail
For maqy weeks o’er hill and dale—-
With red eyes glaring at the sward !. ...
This is his heaven —sweet reward !. . . .
Step lightly ! Do not clear your throats !
Don’t cough, or talk!.... A Wowser
Gloats! ....
The breed will quite die out, I fear
When placards shout: “NO GLOATING
HERE !”
N.S.W.
THE RELIGIOUS EDITOR.


H
POST
CARDS
J
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and vve -will
forward you 12 packets, each containing- 6 of
our colored and high art POST CARDS, to
sell for us at 6d. per packet. When you have
sold the cards, return us our 65., and" we will
send you for your trouble any present you
may choose from the list of jewellery which
we forward. By continuing the sale of our
cards you can earn a LADY’S OR GENT ’S
SILVER WATCH AND CHAIN, a PHOTO
CAMERA loaded for use, SILVER HAIR
BRUSHES, GOLD RINGS, RABBIT RIFLES,
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS, and other exqui-
site and choice prizes. WE TAKE ALL THE
RISK. You can return the cards if not sold.
We are the largest dealers in post cards in
Australia, and import our jewellery, or we
could not make you this liberal offer.
RECAL POST CARD
126 bonds; SYDNEY
810-SHOWMEN!
T HERE'S only one BEST Biograph. We can prove
J it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE.” Send for Cata-
logue. Sole Agents: Jerdan’s, Ltd., 393 George Street,
Sydney.
e=
We Would Be Judged
by all, as we are judged by the thousands who visit our
theatres regularly.
Good Moving Pictures
in such theatres as ours are above criticism. They merit
the support of every sane person in the community.
Britan n '.a
MELBOURNE.
Colonial Theatres
SYDNEY.
mk
m
m
%
The Pitiful Plight of Certain Tools.
That peculiar person, J. T. Packer, secre-
tary of the precious Independent Workers’
Union, of Victoria, worked himself into a
state of great unrest or stew or something
the other day, when his blessed organisation
was turned down, and his organisers turned
out, by David Mitchell. Some months ago
David’s cement-making employees requested
an increase of wages for unskilled labor
to 9s. per day. He offered Bs., which they
refused, and ceased toil. Presently J. T.
Packer wandered along and assured Mit-
chell he could provide unlimited labor at
Bs., and Mitchell, having exhausted his
stocks, accepted, and struggled along with
1 acker’s clerks, shop-assistants, unem-
ployables, and sundries. Of course
this couldn’t last long, and Mitchell’
being latterly threatened with a boycott of
all his merchandise, climbed down last week,
conceded the 9s. claimed, took back as many
former employees as he could get, and sacked
I acker s pets”—with a solatium or honor-
arium of a few pounds per head, and the
otter of a job of woodcutting at Lilydale.
ibis action almost caused Packer to lose
his mental balance, and he raved at large :
He had made tools of the independent work-
Jtten to tide him over a difficulty, whereupon
he had thrown them to the scrap-heap,”
e £-’ e , tc L Next Mitchell’s manager
Ottered Packer a brief explanation—to the
effect that he (Mitchell) had expected the
Associated Contractors and the Employers’
Ifederation to back him up, but that
they declined to do so—also some briefer
and more forcible comments on Packer’s
expressed opinion of Mitchell ; after
which the Independent secretary assured
the public that he had misled him-
self, and that Mr. Mitchell was a per-
fect gentleman, etc., etc., and that the man
who was really to blame was poor John
Weary, who, as Minister of Labor, had de-
clined to grant the request of the Independent
strike breakers for a Wages Board in that
industry. Of course Murray is a tired and
sleepy person, but he was at least wide
awake enough to see the joke. These men
who had accepted conditions against which
other men had struck, had actually asked for
a board to arbitrate on the matter! But
I acker saw nothing humorous in the situa-
tion, and his dupes saw less when they found
themselves between the upper and nether
mill-stones. Still, there is that woodcutting
work available at Lilydale—fine, healthy,
invigorating exercise, at which a number of
men are to-day making a very decent living,
without strike-breaking or other unpleasant-
ness.
Bertram Mackennal, the Australian, has
been commissioned to sculp the King Ed-
ward memorial statue, to be erected in Pall
Mall, London.
.. r .F ha V, eei P! n S cur se is indeed long-winded.
Alfred Deakin, now prematurely blown out
of Australian politics, helped to prepare the
defence of the wife-slayer who suffered from
cementia.
i m °b hanged another negro, who was
thought t° be implicated in the woman’s
death. Later on, it was proved that he was
guiltless. (News from the United States.)
How like a mob !
, r coal-black Moses died at Macksville, in
McGowen s Promised Land, last week. Mrs
Moses first name was Rose, and she and her
prophet had no settled home, and lived on
charity. If the late Moses had possessed
sufficent business acumen to hoist the. three-
ball Gohen signal, McGowen would certainly
have fled to him and borrowed ’possum skins
and kangaroo rats at any old rate of interest
1 hen Ins days and his mortgage would have
been long in the land that was really his
own. No man called Moses has a right to
die poor.
The grim story of “Medico” :
S vnhu;= mly h Us ha ,? compulsory notification of
syphilis, and at once. Here is a case which recently
came under my notice. A tailor presented himself
for treatment at a Melbourne hospital, for a swelling
° f S e knee -_ 1 found his le£rs t 0 b e covered with
syphilitic ulcers. He was otherwise a fine, well-
deveioped and (externally) clean looking man. Inci-
dentally he was the owner of a wife and three
wit,?' N ,° w e f n an y. Wowser, however fanatical,
tell me in plain Australian, why that plague-stricken
n ot , Col ?P elled t 0 undergo treatment
m a special hospital where he would cease to he a
danger to his family and to the community in
general The Wowser who objects deserves to 'have
his clothes made, without his knowledge, by a dis-
eased tailor. J
E. Dwyer Gray, who was to have been
one of the three Tasmanian Labor candi-
dates for the Senate, has withdrawn from
the political field in order to take over the
managership of the Hobart Labor paper, the
Daily Post. Gray is a man with a good
deal of bite, and a sort of satirical bark in
his oratory which might have driven Sena-
tor Millen to drink and President Turlev to
exasperation. Gray’s place in the Tas-
manian Labor trio is now being ballotted
for, and it looks likely that the chance will
u e a w e rs e T d b y James °uy, general sec. of
W.P.L who lost his State Assembly
seat the other day. He is a kindlv, cautious
and conscientious man who has not touched
strong drink for half a century, and has
about as much snap and snarl in his poli-
tical composition as a hot-cross bun.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK
J* OYAP ; “Hamlet.”
C™mf TYS “ The Sunshine Girl.”
Bella Donna.”
A Delphi Z rince and Beggar-Maid.”
'l’ivoir Beggar Girl s Wedding.”
irV™””, Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co
I i m L Aaipiiltiieat1 <k Brennan’s Vaudeville Co."
L™::;;v Spe,,cer-s
empress;:::::::;;:;, f Continuous Pict ure S .
Continuous Pictures, etc
Olympia f West’s Pictures.
Eden Gardens, Manly'.'. The Dandies.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Pif,« MAJ f STY S “Puss in Boots.”
Kiv(-’-<f SS S :} e M° n k an d the Woman.”
“Queen of the Highway.”
Opfra IToi'rsv ‘Midsummer Night’s Dream.”
WfstV PA?*rr Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Om! S , P West’s Pictures.
I vufr Pr 'i Spencer’s Pictures.
LYitic, Prahran Photo Plays.
ARCADL* C <!t' r-i i Amalgamated Pictures.
ARCADIA, St. Hilda The Dandies.
Esplanade, St. Hilda Smart Set Entertainers.
th/] ie Camlet, or his father, or of
the long tradition which attaches to the most
keenly discussed of Shakspeare’s plays, is
dav wS n S s ney Royal next Sa’tur-
day. Walter Bentley, with a supporting
thiong, mob or aggregation of 100 assorted
artists, is to call up the uncanny thing of
effects a wil] a S H ' w Irving ’ s scener -V and
euects will be used to reproduce the State
ohamW? 1 8omethin * rotten in it. Miss Ste-
u° m i Lnsrland - against whom
notlung is locally known, will play Ophelia
aftPnnst i 6y lnmself will wear on his own
the PHn!! !> 7rl U the , t 0 to ° solid fle sh of
the i nnce of Denmark. It is the veteran
actors farewell to the stage, and it is fitting
enough that lie should be seen once more in
with hil Q wblcb j s most closely associated
with his ancient fame.
Despite the handicap of James Bernard
i agan s inept dramatisation of “Bella
Donna, the telling force of Julius Knight’s
impersonation of the Hebrew physician, Dr.
Aieyer Isaacson, makes the most of the fre-
quent dramatic moments in the plav. The
staging at the Criterion is theatrically effec-
tive. The wind storm from the desert is ad-
m/r?ublyJ llg *, ested ; and the sudden banging
of the big shutters of the villa recalls the
? mi - a Sydney southerly buster. In order
o 11 in a necessary pause on the empty
stage, a solitary girl passes on the river
bank bearing a water-pot. The idea is that
the population of the desert is composed of
solitary girls, whereas it is well known that
the only inhabitants of the Sahara are Cook’s
j’ U FA^' s ‘ ~m uc h more realistic impression
u e spell of Kgypt” would be conveyed
by the passing of a weary procession of Eng-
lish tourists, shaded by green umbrellas and
mounted on jibbing donkeys, followed by a
string of whining natives selling picture post-
cards which are not quite so wicked as their
price suggests. And if the moral that all
wives who poison their husbands in Egypt
are eaten by hyenas is to be indicated, the
man who makes the wind whistle on the
orompt side miaht be prevailed upon to learn
to howl hungrily and hyenaoally at inter-
vals during the last act. With these im-
provements the Belladrama might be an
artistic success.
* * * **.
Time kills men, Eternity Wallows them,
and even Allen Doone gets a move on. His
season at Sydney Royal will end to-morrow
night. No change has been made in the bill,
‘Sweet County Kerry” continuing as the
money-makp-
J. C. WILLIAMSON
AS THE OLD
BUTLER IN
“KERRY” AT
THE SCOTT
MATINEE.
Jhe Bush Girl,” at the Palace Theatre
(bydney), after a fortnight’s hard yakker at
the large property tree which is lowered
down by hawsers after the last axe-wallop,
will be sacked to-morrow night by William
Anderson. She will be replaced' bv “The
Prince and the Beggar Maid.” which was
financially appreciated at the Criterion some
time back.
The Sentiments of “Singemoine” :
At the finish of the Scott matinee, on Saturday
afternoon, I found myself torn between conflicting-
doubts as to whether, on the one hand, I was a
Disloyalist and an Empire-burster and a Hound
generally, or whether, on the other, the theatre-
going public and the artists who cater for them were
devoid of any sense of proportion—almost I had
written of any sense of decency. Perpend. Out
there, in the illimitable wastes of Antarctica, lie the
bodies of ( aptain Scott and his colleagues. They
died well and with a gracious absence of bellow-
drama. Captain Oates, that typical Englishman of
the best type, sounded the bote. No sensational leave-
takings for him, no dying orations, no anything of
the cheaply emotional order. “I may be away some
time,’ he said simply, and strolled but to be frozen
to death. One nietures him as slightly embar-
rassed at being obliged to do so theatrical a thing
as die for his comrades. Scott, though probably in
CAN’T SHAKE IT OFF.
How often we hear persons with colds make the
above remark; but Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
shakes them off promptly and effectively in a few
doses. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s. Obtainable every-
where.*
a state of semi-delirium while composing his last
appeal, remained always captain of his soul. He did
not splurge. He was self-restrained to the end. To
such men the knowledge that their misfortunes were
to be used to wring maudlin tears from matinee
patrons would have produced an anguish keener
than death.
I have witnessed some banal spectacles in my time,
but the reading by a veteran actor of Scott’s last
literary effort struck me as the limit and dead
finish of everything. Slowly, agonisingly, what time
the myriads of females present sniffed in luxurious
misery, and fanned themselves, and devoured choco-
lates, the practised old elocutionist intoned those
poor, halting phrases. At intervals, he paused
effectively, and bit his nether lip, as stage strong
men do when battling with emotions that do them
honor. “He’ll break down. I know he will. He’ll
never finish it,” hissed a young woman near me ex-
citedly to her friend. If he had, the joy of 90 p.c.
of those present would have been complete. How-
ever, he didn’t. He gave it to us to the end. Then,
composing his features into one of those wintry
smiles which the ideal undertaker assumes on the
way back from the cemetery, he led on a popular
actress of other days. The happy thought had
occurred to someone of selling the message by auc-
tion. The lady held the document in a hopeful man-
ner, while a ready-tongued little man besought the
populace to bid for what he termed “this beautiful
poem.” A couple of theatrical managers fought
for it amid admiring cheers. One of the patriots
secured it ultimately, together with an invaluable
advt., for £5O.
Then the old actor got going again. In an impas-
sioned discourse he laid down the astonishing theory
that “all was well with the nation which was cap-
able of producing heroes like those they were honor-
ing that afternoon” (applause). “Let their noble .
ends be the answer to those who say that England
is degenerate.” (Deafening cheers.) It recalled to
me that other splendid non sequitur in “Milestones,”
where the youth who enthuses about iron ships is met
with the maddening query, “What of the wooden
walls of old England ? Aren’t they good enough for
you ?” Of course, there is no relation whatever
between the degeneracy, or otherwise, of a race and
the way individual members of it die. No explorer
ever passed out more gallantly than many of the
men and women of France’s futile and deplorable Old
Regime in the time of the Terror. Macaulay has
a special word of praise for the dignity with which
Nuncomar, that most corrupt and perjured of Ben-
galis, met his awful end. The Indians who were
blown from the mouths of cannons during the
Mutiny did not show the white feather in one case
out of 50. The Turk, low as he has fallen, still
knows how to expire creditably. Even the miserable
Korean aroused the admiration of his Japanese
assassins the other day by his fortitude in the pre-
sence of imminent death. Plain, incontrovertible
facts these. But Saturday’s audience at Her Maj-
esty’s was not the sort to assimilate them. In fact,
the citizen who had had the nerve to state them
publicly would have stood a good chance of being
stoned to death with chocolates and programmes.
The piece de resistance was a Christy minstrel
show. Blackened beauty-actors, in naval uniforms,
supported an interlocutor, several tambourinists and
so on. Why not have put the sable mariners in an
igloo and introduced a few conundrums about blubber
as an article of diet? The people who could stand
the entertainment which was offered would not have
jibbed at this perfectly logical development of it.
“SWEET COUNTY KERRY," AT
SYDNEY ROYAL
The villain's horse being faultily shod for the
race by Allen Doone, so that the play
may end happily.
The solitary item which struck one as more or
less in harmony with the painful event that was
being celebrated was Boucicault’s playlet, “Kerry.”
It is in an appropriately minor key, and it was ex-
cellently done by half a dozen good artists. J. O.
Williamson, in the title rOle, was superb. Mrs. T. H.
Kelly’s representation of the anguished wife was in-
stinct with pathos and charm. And Miss Lizette
Parkes —in brief, the thing was admirable.
But the whole well-meaning show was out of the
picture. Such methods of wringing coin from the
multitude are seemly enough in the case of a benefit
for a popular cricketer ; where the shadow of death
broods over the scene they are almost indecent. If
there is any vestige of an obligation cm Australia to
provide money for the dependents of deceased British
explorers, the deed ought, in future, to be done
partly by the Government and partly by voluntary
private subscription. In any case, there should be
no more of this ghastly business of doing a merry
song and dance on the luckless heroes’ graves, so to
speak.
** * *
Having received no boost from the
Church, “The Beggar Girl’s Wedding,” at
the Adelphi, finds that it cannot last much
longer, and has accordingly decided to roll
up its trousseau at the end of next week.
No successor is mentioned to date.
De Mario and Lady, the latest acquisition
at the Tivoli, are the nearest approaches to
eels that have squirmed on to the stage
since the last flood. In particular, De Mario
' — he performs five or six most shuddersome
gyrations while everybody waits expectantly
to hear his neck crack. But some people
have no consideration for an audience, and
every night the house has gone home disap-
pointed. One attempt at suicide is made
by setting five jam tins on end, perching
himself on top, and folding hi* u T~~~"
his neck Some day the bottom^- behill( l
slip, or the top one will cut ahT • tm will
of De Mario that he wants, S°kP 1 »«
foot will get tangled in his ear 7^ 0r hi «
Mrs De Mario will be a widow RiA hen
and L oy, bar acrobats, repeat the ivitch ea
formance they gave with \vf r h c l ean Per-
Max Martin, comedian and dancer \ Clrcus '
up till now, justified Mclntosh’s coil Dot-
penditure on his behalf. TV L-u sal ex '
comer, Miss Renee, an assorted new ‘
tahst, brings along a piano, cSne? trume «»-
tina, a variety of tin whistle, an m!" 6 "'
instrument but no xylophone. For tk- a !“ ed
mercy she receives this paper’* m ! ast
Claire Romaine drops out this
her place will be taken by Miss fw K ’WJ nd
mer, another London singtr-the
“QUEEN OF THE HIGHWAY,"
MELBOURNE KING’S.
“I wonder why that man’s eyes haunt mah."
(The queen’s cabin with asbestos [?].
The wind gurgling.)
. “The Sunshine Girl” having scaled the
dizzy peak of success, at Her Majesty’s
(Sydney), is adhering to the same without
the slightest difficulty. At the first sign of
any attempt to dislodge her, The Bulletin,
ever chivalrous, will dash to the rescue with
a brief but infuriated par.
** * *
If there had been more moving pictures
and a little less of Prof. David’s hard-boiled
heroics, the big show at the Town Hall on
Saturday night, given by the combined cine-
ma tocrats (Edwin Geach, manager), in aid
of the Scott fund, would have been more en-
joyable. _ Evidently David is convinced that
the public does not believe the following, to
wit, that: —
The world has acclaimed Scott and his comrades
deathless heroes, and rightly so. These men dared
the dangers of the Antarctic chiefly for the honor of
their country. They are exemplars for all time of
one of man’s highest attributes, the will unconquer-
able, to either triumph gloriously or to fall with
honor, etc.
If the estimable Professor was convinced
that the public believed all that sort of
guff, he wouldn’t be continually harping on
it as he has been for the past week or so.
If he would give a faint boost to the Rus-
sian dog-boy, jjimitri, who wanted to go on
his lonely and collect Scott (unless the cable
is a liar), it would be a welcome change.
With those few remarks it may be conceded
that the show was a credit to all concerned.
Making its trial Australian trip at the
Exhibition, Adelaide, is a remarkable ani-
mal-circus and "wonder show,” got together
in Europe by A. E. Martin and Rodgers.
From Germany comes Gannon, who weighs
7cwt. ; and Cornelius, who is Bft. high; and
Greta, who is about an inch shorter, but has
time. to catch up, being only 15 years old.
Against these can be set Smaun, from Bur-
mah, who measures 30 inches, and weighs
221 b. _ The notable thing about all these
people is that they look well on it, are nor-
mal in face, and in no way repellent. There
is a charming tattooed lady, done in seven
colors, as far as one is allowed to see —and
she is done much farther according to post-
card photos. There are various side shows,
including all the animals who presently
gather on the stage-—geese with a clown
driver, a “mind-reading” dog, a monkey that
shoots, an educated donkey, cockatoos, acro-
batic monkeys, and dogs which play a three-
act drama on their own. There are also
educated fleas, but these, for various rea-
sons, perform in a small room by themselves.


*
CHWEPP
SCHWEPPES’
Lime Juice Cordial
made exclusively from Montserrat Lime Fruit
Juice, by special arrangement with the
proprietors of Montserrat. Montserrat Lime
Fruit Juice is a most refreshing and thirst-
quenching drink. It is soft and palatable to
the palate, so unlike all other Lime Juice.
SCHWEPPES LIMITED
Purveyors to His Majesty the King.
Keep it
On Hand
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS.
NABOB BOOT PASTE
the Waterproof
Boot Polish.
ONE APPLICATION WILL LAST A WEEK, A BRUSH UP
BEING ALL THAT IS NECESSARY IN BETWEEN WHILES.
LEWIS «§c WHITTY, Makers, Melbourne and Sydney. t i
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
*
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KINO STREETS, SYDNEY.
FIRE ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc.
Lowest Rates Charged.
*Phone No. 236 Central.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
It is a surprising show, and not the smallest
surprise is to find the advance puffs and
posters all realised inside.
* * * *
Adelaide King’s has a strong bill with
the delightful Risley-act Rinches foot-
balancing a crowd ; the Delinos on a wire ;
Leonard Nelson, who has got the house sing-
ing his choruses ; and the cartoonist Zif do-
ing an attractive turn. File picture houses
are proving that the public will crowd to
see unusually good work. West’s stage a
strong “As You Like It,” though Rose Cogh-
lan makes an absurdly mature Rosalind
The little Pav. has jumped to the front with
the Panama Canal series. Wondergraph still
relies mainly on the Lady Bathers, part at-
tractive and part unintentionally humorous.
* *. * *
“Brusher”: Howard Ashton has the walls
of the Athenaeum Gallery just now, and
lovers of the Streetonesque are trickling
freely into that much improved picture mart.
Recent alterations have banished the plat-
form (it can be put back when wanted for
lecture or concert) that cramped the dis-
playing ground, and have thrown a better
light on the subjects. Ashton’s success in
many of the small and medium-sized pic-
tures —there are 68 on the catalogue, and
all of them oils —is discounted by the failure
of his bigger efforts. No. 19, facing the
doorway, is a stiff and amateurish looking
study of autumn trees and smudgy grassy
ground, priced at 150 guineas. “Evening in
the Hills” (No. 20), a terribly painty freak,
is a work of the daring art that begins in
bluff and sometimes ends in poetic effect. The
effect is not achieved in this case. A number
of impressionistic treetops in the foreground
are the least pleasing part of “The Red
Roofs of South Yarra” (No. 22), which is
otherwise very remindful of Streeton. The
altogether satisfactory landscapes, with
more art than finished work in them, are
too numerous to specify, and it is in these
that the artist gives promise of doing greater
things presently. The effect is pleasing and
convincing, yet free from conventional pret-
tiness, as a rule. Two or three canvases
with unclothed female figures on them are
conspicuously weak. Figure drawing and
human flesh tints are out of Howard Ash-
ton’s line of talent. Of such things as “The
Bathers” (56) one may say that the artist
merely smudges in the beginning of a pic-
ture without offering the public any reason
to suppose that it would be much of a gem
if it were finished.
* s* % sjc
Two thousand persons of inquiring mind
crowded into Melb. Princess’s last Saturday
to look for reasons why an indigant prelate
had hurled a lovely ad. at “The Monk and
the Woman.” Later in the evening they
went away wondering what all the song had
been about. The Marlowdrama that opens
in a monkery and closes in a mild rainfall
on a dry, earthquaked stage contains no-
thing disrespectful to anybody’s ancient
Faith. Au contraire —as they say in Gay
Paree —the entertainment heaps butter on
Holy Church, and introduces the emblem
of the Cross as a practical means of pre-
serving the star boarder of the monastery
from sudden death, after which the Royal
Orangeman of the period is slaughtered "for
his giddy indiscretions, and the audience is
forced to the conclusion that piety is the
best policy. All things considered, Marlow’s
picturesque costume. drama was strangely
lucky to get a misguided ad. from a person-
age who didn’t know what it is loaded with.
* iK * *
Everything happens ages ago in “The
Monk and the Woman.” The scene of the
occurrences is understod to be France (al-
though the name of the country goes unmen-
tioned), and the amorous King who desired
the Woman who mashed the Monk who wore
the Cross that stopped the soldiers who
were about, to shoot is Henry of Navarre.
A most ridiculous monarch is Henry in the
play. He doesn’t know enough about reign-
ing to prevent the Woman he wants from
getting married to the wrong man under his
very royal nose. Every time he places the
Monk under arrest the holy man escapes
from custody and turns up in the nick of
time to thwart his evil designs. Henry and
all his male friends, traitorous and other-
wise, seem to be struggling helplessly un-
der the Church’s displeasure, whereas the
monks can’t go wrong anyhow. Even the
tedious comic relief monks, who deserve the
worst that could happen to them, live
charmed lives when the murderous soldiery
are about. This is in strict accordance with
the best Christian principles, nevertheless
the present writer wishes that the murderous
soldiery would draw their swords in the holy
calm of the first act, and cut out half of its
dreary dialogue. Changes in the cast, since
the drama boomed in Sydney, have placed
Richard Bellairs on the throne where Kay
Souper formerly met his downfall, and have
transferred the armor of Henri de Montrale
from Tom Lloyd to Bob Inman, who looks
supremely unimpressive with his stummick
clothed in tin. Vivian Edwards is a quite
Poetic brother Paul, and Miss Tanswell,
Miss Holmes, Miss Harvey and Miss D’Alton
are capable and decorative in their minor
parts. Miss Nellie Bramle.v, as in Sydney.
!s the lady who blows into the monkery and
Courf tbe sukse 9 uen t disturbances at
producHnn ll6 that the Asche
Hmo UC » 0 ? A Midsummer Night’s
W o W ° rdS ° f the ad^-a
music Ld Q and i anc ?’ llkewise a flow of
nor Twfm matter for enthusiastic sup-
co at tho ore , week ? will be the last of the
cif V f , h ffi Roya1 ’ so n was fairl - v U P to the
The “TW.fa Ve >. the , season a golden sunset.
• e J-weam makes it very easy for the
do its duty in this respect. Other of
twL- AS i Cheian shows have been more con-
who fro presented, but for the multitudes
££»!««*• ? ot troubled with Shakspearian
Rv In hIS 18 the best of Oscar’s bunch.
S Friday this week the Capt.
Scott Memorial Fund takes a matinee bene-
fit at the Royal.
In the middle of the *week after next
I uss in Boots” will finish its long
course at Her Majesty’s (Melb.). f
oanfn n ° V f e IT u aVe , been dropped into the
panto of late, but these are not strikingly
effective or otherwise. In about 95 per cent
ot its ingredients the panto is as it was at
the beginning, and, apart from the two
interpolated acrobat turns, and the dormi-
tory item that puts Ivy Schilling to bed in
ler boots, the only notable successes are
\ iolet Loraine as the hard-working “boy,”
and Lennon, as her indefatigable cat.
The Patty Frank troupe of acrobats,
which arrived at Melbourne Opera House
on Saturday, are as neatly entertaining in
the job of tumbling as they are in the art
ot building themselves into sky-scraping
towers. The pack is deserving of full marks
tor the smartness of its performance, while
the small tossed-about kid in the crowd gets
honorable mention for keeping his bones un-
broken. Two other new arrivals, Newman
and Hughes, shun the novel and original in
their cycling stunt. For the rest, the Beni
/.oug Zougs continue their riotous capers,
while Prince’s concertina, Miss Walmer’s
legs, and the colored crayons of Claude Le
l mstner give the programme its features
of Music, Poetry and Painting.
At St. Kilda fVic.) last week the Smart
Setters tried to chase Dull Care into the ad-
joining ” suburb, by presenting “Prairie
I ranks,” a .miniature musical comedy from
the frivolous pen of Edward Elliott. The
piece, filled the second half of the programme,
and its resemblance to real comic-opera was
early exposed by the snanning of the thread
of dramatic interest on which the musical
numbers were hung. The musical offerings,
however, scarcely suffered from the accident;
they were tunefully rendered by Walter
George, Oswald Preston, and Miss Georgie
Martin, and that they had no appreciable
bearing on the business of the evening didn’t
seem to matter.
A sturdy old matrimonial battler is Ladv
Abdy, whose marriage to a lad named
Maurice Grant is reported from London.
This is her third trip to the altar. As Mrs.
Robinson, a merry widow, she caused some
excitement four years ago by espousing old
William Abdy, an immensely wealthy crank,
lie left her most of his money when he
died. Since then, she has been reported
engaged to somewhere in the neighborhood
of half the bright young men in London.
Her betrothal to Grahame White, the avia-
tor, was for some time regarded as an
accomplished fact. However, it fell through,
“QUEEN OF THE HIGHWAY ,”
MELBOURNE KLNG'S.
The Indian gentleman proposes marriage to a
lonely lady.
or never transpired, or something: The
other day she met an alleged prince on a
Channel steamer. He was young and comely,
so she asked him to her hotel in London to
have a drink. What happened then will
never be rightly known. She said he stole
her jewellery. To prove her bona-fides, she
gave him in charge, and had him prose-
cuted. He claimed that she had given him
the gauds to pawn. After some hesitation,
his story was believed. His position was the
more perilous by reason of the fact that he
was a bogus prince, and a person of ex-
tremely shattered means. She is a generous
old soul, and many a financially broken in-
dividual will curse her retirement into
domesticity, and pray that it may be of brief
duration.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Pontius Potter”: “Henri Singemoine” moans the
world-old moan of the elderly when he compares the
, ® Step, the Gaby Glide and other importations
with the ,skirt dance of the last decade (B. 6/2/’l3).
Henri s maiden uncle probably made much the same
remarks when the waltz and the joyful polka delivered
the death-knock to the extremely graceful minuet.
Anything from Salome to the Bunny Hug is better
than the dreary round of Irish, Scotch and other jigs ;
ami the Jelly Wobble beats the Sailor’s Hornpipe by
yards. But why import these revelries? As a
spectacular contortion the Murray Mooch or the
Jokook Twist would meet with much approval, and a
moocow cotillon would simply be the rage of a
continent. [“Pontius” is a poor judge of ages.
“Henri S.” is miles away from being elderly. He is
simply cheerful.—Ed. Bulletin.]
“QUEEN OF THE HIGHWAY ,”
MELBOURNE KING'S.
The faithful nag’s return minus his rider!
Sixteen faints on stage and attempted poison-
in; by dastardly Injun of the said noble nag.
Gaby Deslys, who was the ex-King of Portugal’s
most expensive lady friend, and whose tropical sketch
at London Palace was recently sub-edited and re-
clothed by the censor, blossoms forth with a lengthy
article in an English magazine. Gaby complains that
in England she is misunderstood. “When I appear
en pantalons the whole audience seems to hold its
breath. Why? My intention is to make it laugh.”
She explains that it pains her rather to appear in her
part of Mdlle. Chic, because in real life she is not
That Sort of Girl. And, naturally, not being That
Sort of Girl, she publishes various naughty letters
which she alleges she has received, including one
from a male stranger suggesting that thev might
spend a few days together in Paris. Of course, she
was shocked at that; yet she confesses that she has
no time for the Marriage Tie. Matrimony breeds
mutual cantankerousness; “but in the union libre
that we practise, two beings are as charming, one
towards the other, as possible, for rupture is easy and
immediate.” Still, let us remember that she isn’t
That Sort of Girl. She merely believes in marriage
and divorce being made so easy that either can be
effected at a moment’s notice without the interven-
tion of any silly third party. It is a simple creed.
You can pick it up almost any evening on almost
any pavement. By-the-way, the lady is often called
Gaby Deslegs, nowadays.
“One Who Pays”: Asche is easily the best Bottom
of the modem stage, building on the foundation of
Weir, of the Benson company; but Weir never had
the mind of Oscar. He plucks out much, also, from
that subtle and original thinker, Beerbohm Tree ; but,
again, Tree was not so personally gifted for this
character. As Caliban, I think Asche would be the
best the stage ever saw. Obviously, Rignold could
never equal him in Bottom or Caliban, though
I remember him as good in both. By the way, Asche’s
young-man actors talk exactly alike. Shut your eyes
and you will never know whether Penny, Worlock,
Hignett or somebody else is declaiming the blank
verse. This is not right. See how distinctive Asche’s
elocution is. One would never mistake his voice for
that of any other living actor’s. Kingston was the
first I heard with the unpleasant elocution of Asche’s
—like saplings thrown off the roof of the mouth. I
admire Grimwood almost all round; yet everybody,
from Asche downwards, is bad in the play scene. The
spirit is wrong. It ought not to be rubbishy bur-
lesque, but a study of poor chaps really trying to do
well.
“Cockaigne”: The newest London hit is at the
Apollo, with a farce called “General John Regan,”
by an Anglican clergyman, the Rev. Hannay, whose
nom de plume is “Birmingham.” The play begins
with the arrival of Billings, an American, at the
town of Ballymoy, in Ireland. Just for fun he asks
everybody: “Why have you not a statue to your dis-
tinguished native, General John Regan, the deliverer
of Bolivia?” The idea is so warmly taken up by
Dr. O’Grady (acted by Hawtrey) that Billings half-
believes he has blindly struck an actuality. The
whole place gets in a ferment; and the statue is
executed and inaugurated by an official from the
Lord-Lieutenant., From this flimsy material a
rattling good farce is cokered up, and it runs through
with uproarious laughter. The piece is bound to
reach Australia—with the tardiness of “Mile-
stones,” and following “Bunty Pulls the Strings,” in
the year nineteen hundred and fast asleep.
“Eryander”: About Gladstone and nigger songs
(B. 13/2/’l3). It’s hard to realise the G.O.M. as
uplifting his extremely “preachy” voice in “Dooda-
doo-da-day!” which is the chaste refrain of his
allegedly favorite “Camptown Races.” But sheer
nonsense is often acceptable to men of big brain-
tonnage. Herbert Spencer had a craze for comic
opera—-the more preposterous the better—and George
Meredith had an amusing knack of turning ordinary
observations into improvised operatic airs. Also,
here s from my own experience. The headmaster of
my one-time school was a large and lofty man, with
an awe-inspiring voice and a countenance of super-
natural austerity. He simply breathed classics and
mathematics, and no boy of us had ever seen him
smile. So, when I was sent to his study one even-
ing with a note from one of the under-masters, I
was electrified to hear through the closed door the
doctor s voice exalted in one of the Yankee non-
sense-songs of the period—“Kemo-kimo-da-ro-wa ;
smg-song, Kitty, won’t you try me, oh?” As my
knock had apparently not been heard, I opened the
door a few inches, and, lo! —the great man was
gambolling round the room to the august strain
aforesaid. He didn’t see me, and I fled, for I
didn't know what dreadful fate might be mine if
the great man knew that I knew.
Stargazer”: Barney Shaw is a great kidder of
women. In “Man and Superman,” for instance,
superman is woman, and the grey mare is the better
oss right through the piece. Her sex-instinct is
too much for the wit of the most intellectual animal
m the opposition ranks, Jack Tanner, and the life-
force works her way all the time. Here Pshaw is
as big a humbug as the most conventional drama-
tist that ever compiled jerry-built melodramas of the
Worst Woman brand for the West End market.
Tanner, wise in his other dealings, becomes a fool in
the hands of the heroine; Malone, senior, the hard
and astute business man, degenerates into a weak ass
the moment he encounters his scheming daughter-in-
law. All this is done merely to support Shaw’s
theories. Really, there is no more truth in the
philosophy of “Man and Superman” than there is in
the conventional commonplace sentiments, Shaw’s
views being voted “so true” because of the impudence
with which they are expressed as definite facts. Tan-
ner, when all is said and done, is only a mug in
love, and his scurrying about the earth in motors to
break away from Ann is arrant rubbish, like the
make-believe reluctance of a running hen. With
Shaw, truth is of small consequence; after all —
the play’s the thing.
“Harrison O.” : Bernard Shaw tells patrons of the
Kingsway Theatre (where “John Bull’s Other Island”
is happening) that “the more applause there is dur-
ing the performance the angrier I feel with you for
spoiling your enjoyment and my own.” I greet this
remark with loud and prolonged cheering. The habit
(for which there was something to be said) of hiss-
ing a bad play or rotten acting has fallen into
disuse; but the handing out of in judicious applause
becomes a greater curse as the whiskers on the face
of time grow in length and beauty. The popular
mime is met with an outburst of noise when he
makes his entrance. Upon a first appearance an im-
ported mummer, of whom little is known, and who
may eventually prove the press agent a bigger liar
than usual, is received with uproarious approval be-
fore he or she has spoken a word. In the case of
a female performer the senselessness is often re-
newed each time she enters in a new dress. Again,
any speech or observation which is sufficiently com-
monplace to make a direct apppeal to the collective
understanding of the house is treated as if it were
a Bruce Smith Empire Day peroration. In the case
of a decent comedy (when anything so irregular is
allowed to occur) this is particularly annoying, as
the large section of the audience which takes its
pleasures noisily mostly sees a point 20 seconds
after it is made, and a second flash is often lost be-
cause of the asinine disturbance. Of course, bellow-
drammers are specially constructed to call forth in-
terruptive applause, just-as old operas like “Faust”
and “Rigoletto” were so arranged that the Soldiers’
Chorus and “La Donna e Mobile” might be duly en-
cored. But it is as impertinent to interrupt a
Shakspearian performance with approving clamor
(and this was done during the recent run of “An-
tony and Cleopatra” in Melbourne) as it would be
similarly to break in on the death scene of “Tristan
and Isolde.” Wagner strenuously discouraged ap-
plause at Bayreuth, and in time the common sense
of this was recognised at Covent Garden, so that
interruptive appreciation of grand opera is now un-
known, except in the case of old-fashioned works of
the Verdi type. Apart from the fact that it mili-
tates against an intelligent appreciation of a per-
formance, indiscriminate applause adds greatly
to the length of a show ; so that it is nothing un-
usual these times for a “first night” to last until
after half-past 11. With the early-door rush, ap-
plauding commences even before the show, guber-
natorial personages and ladies, about whom there
clings an odor of illicit romance, being invariably
received with delicately modulated acclamation.
“S.T.S.” Almost pathetic to study the long list
of “entertainers” who try to catch the public eye in
the crowded lists of English papers. The singers are
generally “at the piano,” the humorists are always
“refined,” and all play as a safe card any past
engagement by a Lord Mayor or a Duchess. Among
names more or less known to Australians are War-
wick Pryce, “piano-entertainer”: Louis Nikola,
“magician-entertainer”; and Mrs. Slapoffski, “Aus-
tralian prima donna.”
DEADWOOD DICK PHILOSOPHY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Must Die! Title of latest detective-murdering film.
Mum and Dad and little Billy, also little Flo,
Crane their necks, and laugh, and shudder at the
picture show.
Twenty corpses in an evening is the usual thing;
13ut there are a lot of horrors,
Realistic, minor horrors
For their relishing.
Mum and Dad, when they were kiddies, twenty years
ago,
Had to suffer for the “Deadwoods” where gore used
to flow ;
Now with kids and silver laden, they skim up the
street
Just to see the vital fluid—
Same old brand of Deadwood fluid—
Flicked upon the sheet.
Bellowdrama, shilling “shocker,” shickergraph and
tract,
Morning, evening, Sunday paper—take it for a fact,
All of these and many others want for nothing more,
If they can but get a bucket
Half a gallon or a bucket
Of illegal gore.
Man is still a howling savage—woman is his gin,
And the blood-lust to the pictures draws them subtly
in.
When corpuscles cease to int’rest—when blood’s charm
has sped—
We’ll all be dead!
n.s.w.
CONSTANT MURDERER.
BILLSHAKE IN THE BAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They lounged in a tumbledown Western bar;
One was a manager, one was a star ;
The liquor they drank was a villain’s brew ;
But they were a copper-lined, fearless crew.
The manager held to the light his glass,
And watched the slow spirals of poison pass ;
It wavered like watersnakes full of spite.
He shuddered and swallowed it out of sight.
The star, with his heaviest limelight frown,
Like a hero swallowed his potion down,
Then boomed with a sort of unholy joy,
“Ah, to what base juices we come, dear boy!”
it.s.w.
HORATIO B.


Ĥ
TWO
GOOD
BOOTS.
At
DAVID
JONES,
Opp. G.P.O.
SYDNEY.
21/=
22/6
Illustrated above is an excellent value in Men’s'
Black Box Calf Lace Boots. These have heavy welted
soles, straight toe-caps and round toes. They are
splendid wearing boots, and will give good service
and ample protection during rainy season. In all
sizes 21s.
Here is a good looking 1 Box Calf Derby Lace
Boot, from our freshly opened new Stocks. A very
fine value for 225. 6d. They have heavy welted
soles, Medium toes, and will give splendid wear.
In all sizes 225. 6d.
David Jorkes Pay Carriage.
Ħ
H
Ĥ
Ħ
Of)
MOBILOIL
No one Lubricating Oil is best for all Cars. Gargoyle Mobiloil
gives you a grade for each type of motor. Use the grade
shown in our complete recommendations.' Mailed on request.
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty. Ltd.
New Zealand Chambers, George St., .Sydney.
SOCIETY
NORTH POLE ITEM.
Captain Ritschel ate his last tallow candle on
Christmas Day. A relief expedition was then des-
patched.—Daily paper.
VOICE FROM THE D EEP: “Don't be greedy,
Hans; chuck us your wick! ”
There is something that calls for further
exolanation in the statement that, immi-
grants are responsible for an “alarming in-
crease” in the lunacy rate in Victoria. Dr.
Jones, inspector-general of the insane, re-
ports that Victoria is experiencing an epi-
demic of “pathological nostalgia,” exactly
similar to what prevails in the United
States, where the proportion of cases of
home-sick insanity among new-comers is
found to be “largest among immigrants from
countries in which the local lunacy rate is
not very high.” Granting that the assisted
newchum of to-day is apt to go melancholy-
mad as the result of new environment, there
must be something the matter with modern
civilisation. The Victoria of the gold rush
years contained no population to speak of
that wasn’t living under conditions harder
: and stranger in their newness than the ex-
isting victims of “pathological nostalgia
have ever dreamed of. The same truth ap-
plies, in a less degree, to new immigrants to
.America, as compared with the multitudes
of 50 years ago. Why wasn’t lunacy the
rule among early Victorians, who made their
dreary passage out to the Promised Land
on crowded sailing ships, and found no home
comforts when they got there? They must
have been made of vastly different stuff
from the assisted immigrant who is steamed
from Britain to Melbourne in six weeks,
taken in hand by a Government agent on
arrival, and sent to a more or less easy bil-
let to go “dotty.” What Dr. Jones has yet
to explain is the true inwardness of
“pathological nostalgia.” Perhaps some
explanation lies in the fact that the Eng-
lish immigrant of 1851 came from a country
with 308 people to the square mile, while
the one of 1912 comes from a country with
619 people per square mile. His brain may
have been flattened in the interval by the
pressure of population.
“Eryander”: Re scurvy and the Antarc-
tic. I have more than a nodding acquaint-
ance with the gruesome disease in question,
and I know that a man may have scurvy
for weeks without any more marked symp-
tom than “that tired feeling.” This would
account for the strange weakening of strong-
man Evans, and the malady in this stage
was probably present also with Scott and
the others, though the bodies showed no ex-
ternal signs of it. The usual cause of
scurvy is lack of vegetable acids in the
blood, and lime-juice is a specific when the
trouble is thus produced. But in persons of
scorbutic habit the disease may arise from
exposure and anxiety. I was once bashed
about the Atlantic for three weeks in a dis-
masted timber ship. Our cargo wouldn’t let
us sink, but our decks were awash all the
time, and, though we didn’t lack lime-juice,
three of the crew developed unmistakable
scurvy. One was knocking hard at death’s
door, and also ringing the bell like the very
devil, when we were picked up, but shelter
and safety set him on his legs again within
a week.
A dreadful thing happened in Sydney the
other day, and the Daily Telegraph was
quite right to be very upset about it: —
Rifle Clubs had to stand off the Randwick rifle
range on Saturday in consequence of all the targets
being engaged for musketry. Riflemen feel annoyed
that their arrangements should be upset by the en-
croachment of musketry.
That men who are in training for the regu-
lar work of Defence should need instruction
in the use of their arms is, of course, ab-
surd ; and no wonder the pot-hunting civi-
lian riflemen, who want to practise for some
of the prizes at the next matches, call it an
encroachment. Under the old State regime
the utterly unimportant business of training
the Defence force in the art of defence was,
thank Heaven, never permitted to interfere
with the innocent pleasures of rifle clubs
and other people.
* * * *
“0.K.” : Cabled that one of the most im-
pressive moments of the Scott Memorial
Service at St. Paul’s Cathedral (London)
was when the names of the five deceased
explorers were introduced into the collect,
and the parson said, “We humbly leave them
in Thy fatherly keeping.” It must have grati-
,fied the Almighty to be told that a congre-
gation was content to leave Him in charge
of certain specified members of the dead,
without stipulating for any class distinc-
tions to be made between them! For it
seems that with Christian worshippers class
distinctions are strong even in thoughts of
death. At St. Paul’s Cathedral, in Mel-
bourne, the Dean of Newcastle (N.S.W.)
gave particular praise to the deceased ex-
plorers for their democratic spirit. . In his
memorial sermon he said: “Fine it is to
think they would not leave Evans behind
them. Though only a man before the mast,
he was their trusted comrade, and they
pressed on with the burden.” Dear bre-
thren. let us find comfort in the knowledge
that Evans has been piously confided to the
‘Lord’s fatherly keeping, though, as the Dean
of Newcastle remarked, he was only a man
before the mast.
* * * *
Those helpless dames on Yarraside who
have been putting down their names at the
Immigration Bureau as in need of an im-
ported Merely Sarah Jane or two, are be-
ginning to fight shy of the business, and the
registry offices and the Australian domestic
are more rushed than ever. It appears that
the Lands Department officials who super-
vise the immigration business hand most of
it over to the local John Hop—otherwise
John Cop—who inquires into the social, moral
and financial status of the family which
desires a fresh young English servant
or two. John goes to the butcher, baker and
others to find out how the family pays and
how it behaves itself, and everybody soon
knows that the police are inquiring. If
there is a family skeleton it is bound to
rattle its bones, and if there is a family
bottle it is certain to be smashed. So immi-
grant help is largely “off” in the homes
which possess a giddy son, or a tragic past,
or a prodigal daughter, or a wild bacchan-
alian aunt with vine-leaves in her hair.
Only the Wowser family remains to take in
the imported Bridget, and there she is likely
to find harder work and get poorer wages.
A DEADLY THREAT.
"Did your wife .threaten to go to her mother?”
“No! She threatened Is bring her mother here!"
Weird remark by Speaker Henry Willis
(N.S.W.) in a contributed article to The
Australian Journalist (21/2/T3). He
complained of unfriendly treatment by the
editor of the Wellington Dominion thus: —
I suppose if this editor of the Dominion were to
see me in Sydney he would hurl a brick at me. His
twin brother in the Sydney Morning Herald office
says he started his career with the Book of Common
Prayer and the Arabian Nights under his arm. Re-
cently this gentleman apologised to an old lady at
Woollahra for putting my name in print. She had
as “the mother of three children”.,lost many a good
thing from his pen as my name was on the same
page. I do hope it was not an extract from Burton’s
blue page of the Arabian Nights which Lady Burton
would not publish.
AN ILL-TIMED ADMONITION.
PARSON (praying outwardly): “Rend your
hearts and NOT your garments .”
MEMBER OF CONGREGATION (cursing inwardly):
"Confound it! I believe that is just what
I have done! ”
“Led by His Majesty the King practically
everyone in the vast Cathedral wept openly,”
said Adelaide Mail when describing the
Scott memorial service at St. Paul’s, Lon-
don. So once more the King led the way.
No base ruffian was so unmannerly as to
weep till the monarch got fairly started.
But it is also stated that: “Sobs of the re-
latives of the historic dead were heard above
the cadences of the hymn.” So, though
George wept first, it was the blessed privi-
lege of “the relatives of the historic dead to
weep loudest.”
The Yankee “religious en-
gineer” is the newest sort
of buzzer on the narrow
path that leads to the col-
lection plate. Two of the
species will arrive here
early in March, and Aus-
tralia is to be “swept”—
that is to say, the religious
calm will be broken, and
every soul that has not got
strong moorings down will
be driven on to the Golden
Shore. The shaky souls
that enjoy drifting help-
lessly before the “engin-
eer’s” wind will have a
great time, and will whoop
like glory when they go
aground; but they will in-
evitably be floated off again
by the spiritual spring tides
that are, presumably, the
work of the Devil. In a
marine way of speaking,
these revivalists never seem
to get the soul far enough
ashore to make it remain at
its alleged destination. If
they did, they would pro-
bably ruin the business.
Every soul saved is a soul
less to save.
, Pity the sorrows of a persecuted'chauf-
teur. He had knocked a man keel-over on
the Esplanade, St. Kilda, and a crowd was
listening attentively while the butted citizen
relieved his feelings. The chauffeur was de-
pressed, almost in tears. “That’s right,” he
sa , id ’ “abuse a bloke. It’s always the same
when a chauffeur happens to hit a blighted
pedestrian ; but what credit does he get for
the people he misses?”
BARRICADES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I can’t get along the streets! — Shout of enraged
Sydney man.
They buried an electric main, and filled the hole with
clay ;
They mended all the asphalt path, and sadly went
their way ;
Then we, who had to take the road while others plied
their trades,
Walked gladly o’er the spot whereon had stood their
barricades.
But scarcely had the winds and feet dispersed the
sifted sands,
When up there came a band of men with shovels in
their hands ;
Anon, behind a barrier, the pave with picks they
broke.
“We gotter putter noo pipe down,” remarked the
foreman bloke.
Then, for a month, we took the road whene’er we
went that way ;
The simple job it lasted long—-from work they used
to stray
To eat a pot 0’ beer, or see the Arbitration Court.
(The tangled traffic round the job with blind umbrel-
las fought.)
They got it done at last. I think some shopman
made a row.
Then once again the road was cleared—l know not
when or how.
The wounded footpath’s jagged hurts were healed
with asphalt black,
And some brown hajid of mercy strewed fine sand
upon its back.
But so long had the barricades railed off the workers’
blot
That citizens like horses shied, whene’er they reached
the spot,
And only minds of habit free strode swiftly o’er the
scars,
Instead of running off where clanged the swift electric
cars.
For one short week or less, the path of railings has
been clear,
And timid folk walk straight along, and never out-
ward sheer.
But, see 1 beside the kerbstone wait some brown, tool-
laden men!
‘The time of grace is up! They’ve come to tear it up
again t
N.S.W.
KODAK.


Speedy and
thorough
cleansing
Mrs. M. Crawford\ of Leichhardt,
Sydney, writes :
“ I find it pays me to use
‘ Sunlight ’ because of the
speed and thoroughness with
which it does its work. It
gives a fresh and new appear-
ance to prints and cashmeres,
which no-other Soap I have
ever tried can do.”
COOD
Sunlight
LAUNDRY SOAP
KICKED ON THE KNEE.
When preparing his horses to carry people to the
Bulls races, Mr. Duncan H. Stevens, of South Street,
Feilding (N.Z.), was kicked on the knee by one of
the anfmals, and could not stand for hours. He
states- “I immediately applied Chamberlain s Pain
Balm with wonderful results, for the next day ! was
oni te recovered. Am confident that I would have been
Q for work only for this wonderful liniment.
I n am1nlv make this statement for I
know that those who work round horses are only too
pleased to hear of such a valuable liniment as Cham-
berlain’s Pain Balm.’ *
Wild’s Hairdressing Rooms, 30 Upstairs;.
Sydney Arcade, George and King Streets, Sydney, is-
the proper place to go if you want the best of atten-
tion Electric head and face massage done in the-
latest American style. Hours of business: 8.30 to
6.30 ; Saturday close at 1 o’clock.*
Peapes
1516
15he “ARNOLD” Safety Razor
as compact as a fountain pen .
Besides possessing all the attributes of the ordinary good safety razor, the “Arnold”
occupies no more space than a fountain pen—it fits easily in the vest pocket. For this
Reason and fbr its durability and efficacy, it appeals to many men-to medical men
particularly. ‘
PRICE, 15/6 EACH. 12 extra blades with each razor.
Additional sets of blades, 3/6 per dozen. New catalogue on request.
Peapes & Co., Ltd.
Men’s Outfitters,
309-11 George St., SYDNEY.
The rising of to-morrow’s sun is not more
certain than that Victorian Chief Justice
Madden, when sitting in divorce, will upend
himself and orate to the world at large, on
one-sided evidence. Thus, at the February
sittings, a Mrs. Kennedy informed him that
she and her partner had dwelt together more
or less peaceably for four years in Banana-
land, but on removing to Melbourne he toiled
awhile, then went up country to get work,
and that was the very last she had seen or
heard of him. She asked his Honor for a
decree, and got it. That was all quite regu-
lar, but there was no need for Mr. Madden
to notify the public that “this was one of
those wretched cases that were becoming a
curse to the country, where a man married
a woman and then walked off and enjoyed
himself, leaving her to work to bring up ‘his
children.” Certainly Kennedy walked off,
but there was no evidence that* he was enjoy-
ing himself, or doing anything at all, or that
he was even alive. He may have fallen into
a waterhole, or river, or perished from ap-
pendicitis, or been run over by a traction
engine, or train, or died of fever, or gone
nmd. or been killed by a snake, or a bullock.
He may have perished while in the act of
sending all his earnings to his wife. It is said
to be wrong to speak evil of the dead, and it
isn’t much better to speak evil of the pos-
sibly dead, when that person’s possible dead-
ness is the only charge against him. If
disappearance is a sure sign of villainy—
well, can Chief Justice Madden account "for
all his ancestors? Did none of them vanish
off the page of history in an unaccountable
fashion?
Victoria’s Chief Justice got quite angry
lately when he fell into a hole in the law that
he didn’t seem to be aware of. The matter,
of course, concerned a divorce case in which
the deserting husband was proved to be
living handy to his wife’s domicile. His
Honor was shocked to learn that he wasn’t
living alone, either, and after swiftly grant-
ing a decree he wanted to know why alimony
wasn’t applied for. Petitioner’s counsel, a
competent divorce lawyer, assured him they
couldn’t do so because they couldn’t prove
respondent’s income; whereupon Mr. Mad-
den wondered whatever the Legislature could
have been thinking about. The chances are
that the Assembly wasn’t thinking about
anything in particular, and that the House
of Review overlooked the oversight as usual.
In another case His Honor discerned a gap
that doesn’t exist. Here a husband had re-
peatedly assaulted his wife and child before
deserting them, and Mr. Madden wanted to
know why Parliament hadn’t given power to
order such men imprisonment or the lash.
Of course Parliament has given power to
order these penalties for various assaults;
but it hasn’t given the power to Judges in
THEY KEPT AFLOAT.
“ Oh , Mr. Jagg, you've bin drowndin ’ your
sorrows again! ”
“ No, lady, I can't. They're champion swim-
mersh. (Hie.) Fanny Duracks, every
one of 'em!! ”
divorce, and it is to be hoped it never will.
Before ordering imprisonment or “the lash
it is usual to hear what the defendant, or
respondent, has to say, and a Judge in div-
orce more often than not escapes the privi-
lege of meeting that party.
~ P e , na l reform for which Chief Jus-
Madden, of Victoria, has repeatedly
called the provision of means whereby con-
nnees may be made to maintain themselves
and a good bit over—struck Justice Hood in
a new spot at Bendigo lately. The matter
arose here through a jury recommending to
mercy a man of 27, convicted of the usual
irregularity with a damsel of 14. The jury
suggested leniency on account of the cul-
prit s young wife and family—which original
reason moved Hood to scorn, and a sentence
ot two years’ hard labor. Yet the greater
wisdom lay with the jury, for the sentence
meant only further injury and suffering for
THE PROBATIONER.
“ An' don't yer have to tike the dorg out too?"
“ Oh, no! She wont trust me with anything
but the kid yet."
wife and family, while the culprit, under
Victoria’s prfegent archaic penal system,
would gain no benefit whatever. In another
case his Honor showed better sense. He was
about to commit to an “Orphanage” a young
woman convicted of the manslaughter of her
newly-born and unattended infant, when he
casually inquired what wages the institution
would pay her. Being informed that she
would have to toil for the pure love of toil-
ing and her tucker, Hood curtly replied that
he “would not, allow her to work for others
without pay,” and released her on bonds for
her good behavior. It is about time the
charitable wash-tub got a rest; it has been
overworked these many years.
* * * *
From “Alma Mater”:
Sydney University has a suffragette movement, of
a sort, all -to itself. The burning que«tion there is
whether oV, not a woman will find a place on Car-
michael’s Senate. Chancellor Normand MacLaurin is
violently Hbstile to anything of the sort, and sugar-
expert E. W. Knox even more so. Professor David is
the champion pro-woman Senator; with Prof. Mac-
Callum a good second. When Mr. Knox was inveigh-
ing against the higher education of women one day
at a Senate meeting, he was asked whether, if he
wanted to learn anything about radium, he would
attend the lectures given by Madame Curie. In the
tone of one who had been charged with Disloyalty to
the Throne, he replied; “One—perhaps. I would not
sit under her.” That is how Mr. Knox comes to be
known in ’Varsity circles as “One—perhaps.” . More
even than a seat upon the Senate do the University
women desire to compete on equal terms for the
teaching positions at the University. A girl once got
a position by signing the application with her initials
only. A year later, when the Chancellor came to
confirm it (this is a mater of form, gone through
periodically in the' case of University appointments),
he sent for the Registrar, in a great state of mind, to
know if it was really a woman that was holding the
position. As she had done her work satisfactorily, it
had to be confirmed. In connection with University
extension lectures a woman was in the running to
give some on crystallography. The antis opposed it
strongly, but The pros won the day. Dr. Dalzell s de-
parture to the Lister Institute, as a holder of a Beit
fellowship, will leave a vacancy on the University
teaching staff which will also be hotly contested by
the pros and antis. # »
“Sardonyx”: Have no great liking for
Japs, but went on board the Azuma t other
morning and found that from Dan to Beer-
sheba all was British, even to the absurd
little dirk of the middy, hitched up short
when the wearer is on duty, but swung tree,
like a full-grown sword, when ceremony
is on. Have visited warships of many
nations, and never found any of them just
it” for cleanliness except the British and the
Dutch but I must now join in the Japs.
It’s said that the Nipponians don t
ciate Western music. Well, they are some
plavers of it, at all events. The band was
doing selections from ‘Faust and ir^ a '
tore.” and the work was excellent. The
duodecimo officer who showed me round was
fairly comprehensible in English until we
Sine to a large, carefully-cased-up object to
which he gave a weird-sounding name ot
which I could make nothing, so, I asked him
if he could spell it. ‘S-e-a-r, he began.
“Search-light,” I cut in. Yes, said the
little man. “Veree difficul’ wor. Fan
vou sav ‘ser?’ ” I asked. He could, and did.
“Now sav ‘ch.’’’ He said it. “Now. say
‘ser-eh ’ ” After a couple of tries he got the
word all right, and he’s not the chap to for-
get it either. That’s a marked characteris-
tic of the Jap. In Scottish phrase, he is
4< g6y gleg at the uptak .
T i Y ‘ Z r‘r : There are strict laws to enable
John Hop to deal with persons who in a
state of inebriety take charge of horse, ass,
or mule in a wheeled vehicle, but there are
none to assist the estimable Hop in coping
with drunks found afloat in a boat.
In eight cases out of 10 boating dis-
asters in these down-south parts are
more the result of the tempestuous wet
inside the. boat than the violent ele-
ments outside; and it is high time more
drastic measures were devised to prevent
seamen _ from going down to the sea
in skiffs, especially those incompetent mari-
ners whose inability is augmented by beer.
The Victorian police
are chewing over a weird
mystery. Last Thurs-
day one Samuel Smith
put up at a Geelong res-
taurant. He met a
stranger there who
asked him if he wanted
work. Samuel said “My
oath,” _ and the stranger
told him to be ready to
move on in the morning.
They walked to Werri-
bee, where the stranger
booked a room for him-
self at a boarding-house.
Smith asked where his
new place was, and his
friend told him about
two miles further on.
When they struck an
empty house along the
road, the philanthropist
asked Smith if he’d care
for a smoke oh. Samuel
was willing, and they
stepped inside. But in-
stead of producing his
pipe the gentle stranger
took out a knife, and
proceeded to sharpen
it on his boot. Then
he stuck it as far as
it would go through
Samuel’s vest, and
ran. When Samuel
got over the unpleas-
antness of it all, he
decided that if he
waited hi s friend
might come back with
a ploughshare and
stick that into him,
too. so he crawled
lino • ii j a l° n g to the railway
; in ®’ aad signalled a driver, who col-
l ec i*u hlm , an ? hls Punctured midriff, and
A°°n t *i em . botb to the Melbourne Hospital
And at time of _ writing the stereotyped
hoi IC vAr e b° rt , to be that “no trace
has yet been found of the assailant.”
* * * *
The blowing up of the new house of Lloyd
Ueorge, British Chancellor of the Exchequer
reveals a weak point of the suffragette move-
ment. The great burst might have been
ascribed to Orangemen or Tory peers, but
tor two circumstances: (1) The wrecked
premises were much pervaded by dropped
hairpins and hatpins; (2) ladies of the
Drummond and Pankhurst order couldn’t
avoid airing their vanity by declaring that
tne explosion was caused by members of their
party. _ >Vhen lovely woman goes throwing
her neighbor’s house at the sky, she should
leave no hairpin behind her, and she should
keep dead silence afterwards.
* * * *
There are very few Sydney people at large
who, being thirsty, would deliberately pass
by the innumerable pubs, tea-rooms and
soda fountains that line the streets, and lap
water out of a drain. But he is a very rare
citizen indeed who does not absorb milk in
some form once or twice a day. And much
of Sydney s milk is alleged by a well-known
doctor to contain “more bacteria than or-
dinary sewage matter.” So the staunch tee-
totaller who sucks soda and milk through a
straw, and the demure flapper who licks ice-
cream off a spoon are in deadly danger,
while the partly-collapsed drunk who merely
sits_ in the gutter is fairly safe. It is a
curious state of affairs, and Private Enter-
prise, the beloved friend of the S. M.
Herald, is the responsible party. Milk is
a Mghly-perishable product, which should be
fairly rushed from cowbail to breakfast
table. To ensure a reasonable margin of
safety, the cow of supply should be fairly
close to the jug of demand. But leaden-
footed Private Enterprise steps in and ladles
out far-travelled milk that has been stricken
with old age. A long drink of milk now
costs as much as half a yard of ale in a
public bar. And it seems to be steadily
foaming up towards the cost of a private bar
refresher. At first sight, this looks to be
very satisfactory for publicans and drunks;
but even these take milk in some form dur-
ing the long procession of the hours. The
purification of the milk supply is a vital
question in which all who are not already
dead are interested. Even the Private En-
terprise milkman might join in the crusade
for the reform of himself. There is a popu-
lar idea that no milkman ever drinks milk;
but he may one day take too much whole-
some beer and mistake a soda fountain for
a bar. In such a case, he would probably
die horribly in advance when he came to.
His knowledge would kill him.
THE WAY OF A MAID.
H E: “But why have you thrown Harry over?"
SHE: “I couldn't marry a man with a broken ;
nose, you know."
H E: “Broken nose? Why, how did he happen
to break it, poor fellow? ”
SHE: "Oh, I struck him playing tinnis!"
The Circus came to town on Saturday at
Sydney to augment the fund fc r Scott and
party’s dependents. Led by a brass band
that would have set Wirth’s teeth on edge,
a procession of motor-cars rolled round the
city, while the actresses and othors aboard
and accompanying them did catchpenny
turns at odd corners. It was an easy job for
everybody but the fellow with the big drum
and cymbals or kerosene cans, or some such
devastating implements. If Charity began
at home with him he must long ago have
deafened the neighborhood. Later in the
day “popular actresses,” etc., switched the
circus off and put on a nigger minstrel show.
A mock auction was also held, at which two
well-known theatrical managers bid against
each other for a copy of Scott’s dying depo-
sition. The grief-stricken public parted up.
£BOO.
SAVING THE SERVANTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Melbourne Age reports that the Victorian Lands
Department, which has the handling of immigrant
maid servants, sets the police oft' among the local
tradesmen to make a searching investigation into
the character, habits and antecedents of persons who
make applications for girls. The department particu-
larly wants to know whether the applicants are in
business, if they pay their debts, are good-living
people, are slow going or “cut a dash,” what the
tradesmen think of them, whether there is any
disease or mania in the family, and as more than
one constable construes it, “whether the old man
drinks or walks in his sleep.”
Do you want a smart Matilda
For your kitchen out at Kew,
Or your boudoir at St. Kilda?
Be most careful what you do 1
Turn your back on all temptation,
Be extremely circumspect,
Cut each frivolous relation;
In your person, faith and station
Be unfailingly correct;
For the State can trust its lambkins*
only to the true elect.
Should you fail to pay the baker,
Should you nark the butcher’s man,
Or neglect the undertaker,
Get a servant where you can !
Go to chapel with the missus,
Give the plate just what you should,
Kiss no unconnubial kisses,
Cut no dashes. Needful this is,
For we’d have it understood
That the maid may be a corker, but the
master must be good 1
’Tilda’s brought across the ocean
With great care, at heavy cost;
We must show her due devotion,
Otherwise she may be “lost.”
If you are a naughty person,
With a worldly point of view,
You might put an curse on
Little ’Tilda Ann Macpherson—
Your petition we eschew.
Any mere Australian hussy’s plenty
good enough for you 1
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


f&fe £j
Tfc.
At all costs the Liberal party should
stand together. It must show a solid
phalanx to the forces of Socialism,
which was steadily gathering in
strength, and which threatened all that-
was best in their private relations in A
life—Joe Cook.
L.B.M Why\ Joe, itje |>ok<2, > it' -
Tiohns , i ».
JoKooK " I'tell you &live •, 'to f'gVTi'M.
I
1
There was a clamor of farewells
when the steamer began to move away.
Late-comers rushed to the side of the
pier and shouted their good-byes. Then
cheers were given with, much waving of
hats and handkerchiefs. Tears welled
in the Premier’s eyes and ran unchecked
down his cheeks. He turned his back
and buried his face in his handkerchief
until the cheering ceased.—Note on the
departure of Willie Watt for London.
V Jr \ X.- \ . \'
[/ \ \
tv® J-
‘CHP \ X, \Jv N° V
*y&y / JS|
i \ yV/ji' f—"' /A
I — j/ouve
\ S^)o+ •
1 more cio you wam+ 7 '
I Fowler'. — "fry
I w'JtT
Officers of the Department of Home
when tho 1 1 the Federal citv
of S^^mer' —" How it"
morniwo
VYewir Wwi "The flow teJxr* di»ni»»isWt
Tmt" my ‘Vie*y» is still
very 50 re." j __ ----
Public attention was recently directed
by the Inspector-General of the Insane
to the proportion of immigrants who
find their way into the asylums. Dr.
Jones attributed this fact largely to the
change from one country to another, to-
the altered conditions, and in a degree
to the loneliness of immigrants, who xtfT
are separated from their re- / qJs —
Jatjons -and friends.— r~^>
—News item. <
ywir,
life ®
I r ; §^
'tfovvjCti J
AsSisledHewCom«_''o,(iff%l,«^ , .
Pi* .# y° i * j u«s« c +*us -fa> soitaJb|e lo<l<?ihos'
rollcc.tr,Well* C*rtt" Voa ir, VF
z/otA miS\fr"hy yzsr*. Bend, ” ,
—n• ■ n
OWmo 'Vfe. Scarcity of m “Pjfi.
d>sfvi^V' % H'S E.V- will |>rol>2\bly "haye *f© do
-tfe >V vtittj A W of l-e^iriJttoa
MELBOURNE DOINGS.


The Household Disinfectant-
Carbolacene
Cleanses and disinfects
in one act.
For washing floors, paint work,
sponging carpets, etc. Removes
dirt, prevents disease,
In the bath and for washing tne
hair.
A wonderful healer of cuts and
sores and skin eruptions.
In the sick room. Instantly des-
troys all germs.
For washing animals. Destroys
all vermin.
USED BY ALL HOSPITALS
*
m
If not obtainable at your Chemist or Storekeeper, send for trial
pint bottle 1/3 Post Free to any address.
SYDNEY:
Arthur Muston a Sons.
BRISBANE :
Moylan a Chancellor.
MELBOURNE:
MITCHELLa BELLAIR
THe World’s Best.
PAIMLER
MOTOR LORIVY.
Silent Knight Engine.
Shaft Drive No Chains.
H
SUNSHINE
Motor Cars P’t’y,
Melbourne.
Hugh V. McKay, Sydney & Adelaide,
I Sole
| Agents.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
iaiTum : A N.S.W. school inspector,
"■ ho is a good Australian, the other day drew the
continent he loves so well, in outline, on the black-
board of an outback school. He asked the young-
sters what it was, but only the brightest boy in the
school had a notion. The bright boy said he thought
it was a rabbit.
He wandered into Briggs’s bar, where we
were liquidating on our way to the sale, and we at
once recognised him to be a brother joint of the
country s backbone. He asked rather anxiously if a
gentleman had inquired for him there that day.
Receiving a negative reply, he murmured, “That’s
strange. He said he’d be here about two, and it’s
half-past now.” He went on to explain that he had
met the gent in the township that morning before
the bank was open, and after a drink or two, obliged
him with the loan of a fiver, which was required as
deposit on a horse. The money was to be returned
at the pub at 2 p.m. We all expressed sympathy and
an indignation at the practice of such despicable city
tricks in our quiet hamlet. But the whiskered one
indignantly defended his acquaintance from our im-
putations, and expressed his unbounded confidence in
him turning up with the fiver all right. His sim-
plicity and confidence exasperated Briggs, who, scent-
ing more fivers about, offered To bet him even’s that
his client would fail to turn up. The bet was read-
ily accepted, and the other boys who asked for tick-
ets in the same good cause, were promptly accommo-
dated. Then we had a bob in, and while the drinks
were being served, I was horrified to see a well-
mounted and well-dressed “Johnny” approaching.
Dismounting, he entered, and cordially greeting our
hairy brother, said: “Sorry to have kept you wait-
ingi old man ; awfully obliged to you for your kind-
ness this morning,” and handed him a fiver. Briggs
passed over the stakes in dead silence, and whiskers
invited all hands to have another. At the races the
next week I saw two men of Galilee running a
thimble-and-pea joint. One was the “Johnny” and,
though whiskers and dungarees were gone, I recog-
nsed in the other the simple, trusting soul who had
struck Briggs’s pub just as the time w r as ripe.
“Fax,” from the Antarctic side of the
Murray: lie “Jersey” (B. 2/6/’l3) and impure milk.
The assertion that “a truthful description of even
the cleanest cocky’s method of milk production
would cause a commotion in the healthiest reader’s
stomach” may be true of N.S.W., but is a libel on
hundreds of dairy farmers throughout Victoria. The
cow cocky c f the older generation is sometimes illit-
erate and the boss sweater on earth, but dirty in his
dairy he emphatically is not. I live in the centre
of the biggest dairying district in Gippsland, and
can assert that 99 p.c. of the milking sheds and
dairies are constructed on the most up-to-date
hygienic principles, and that scrupulous cleanliness
is the rule, not the exception. With the co-opera-
tive manufacture and marketing of butter brought
to its present high level, the cow cocky has learnt
that dirt doesn’t pay. For instance, at the second
largest butter factory in Gippsland last year 98 p.c.
of the cream received was graded superfine; and if
“Jersey” knows anything about milk, except that a
pint jugful costs 2d., he will recognise that such a
record proves the almost total absence of all contami-
nation. Then as to diseased cattle, there is no reli-
able means of detecting tuberculosis in its early
stages except by post-mortem examination, the much-
vaunted tuberculin test being absolutely unreliable.
When the disease becomes advanced, the beast is
weeded out because the universal system of weighing
and testing demonstrates that her milk yield has
fallen below the profit mark. “Jersey” can rest
assured that in Vic., anyhow, dairy farming is a
business, and that indifferent milkers are not toler-
ated in a dairy herd. He may also be surprised to
learn that Victorian cookies pay annually 6d. per
head for the Government inspection of their cows,
and that the inspector has the power to destroy any
beast infected with tuberculosis or lumpy jaw. Give
the Devil his due; even if the cow cocky adds to
the mirth of the continent per Norman Lindsay by
growing luxuriant whiskers and waking up the
rooster, at anyrate he is clean.
THE WAS HEADY.
THE LAW (to gentleman up on the
“ vag.”): "You say you are the proprietor of a laundry. And what is the
laundry called?”
“VAG.”: “Mary Jane.”
AS ONE EXEMPT FROM DOGMA.
F ARMER: “ Yer said larst night yer didn’t
believe there was a Heaven nor a Hell."
FARM H AND: "No more'n I don't."
F ARMER: "Well, yer kin grub that patch o' saplings next Sunday."
“Pick”: “Vagabond” (B. 6/2/T3) offers
the blessings of a whole ship’s company to anyone
who can tell him and them how to evict a colony
of cockroaches. I don’t go much on sailors’ bless-
ings, as a rule; all the same, if “Vagabond” dusts
the cracks and crannies inhabited by his enemies
with the ash from burnt potato peelings, he will
scatter them like Wowsers fleeing from the wrath to
come.
In outback tanks and dams the loss of
water by evaporation is big enough to make a man
jump when the figures drop on him for the first
time. On the comparatively small tanks (surface
catchments) on the northern railway lines in S.
Australia, including the overland to Oodnadatta, the
loss is anything from 10ft. to 13ft. a year. The
Board controlling the big Goldfields scheme in Wes-
tralia prints some of its experiences in its annual
reports. The Chief Engineer shows that, while
1,150,000,000 gallons were pumped and 156,000,000
gallons supplied by gravitation during last year (to
June 30), 995,000,000 gallons were lost by evapora-
tion. This means that, even at the Mundaring weir,
which is in one of the most favored spots in Wes-
tralia, 50 per cent, of the water goes out through
the pumps, 7 per cent, by the pipes unaided, and as
much as 43 per cent, is taken up by sun and wind.
And the Board hasn’t yet found the address of sun
and wind to serve an assessment notice on the ex-
travagant couple. Of the rain that fell on the
catchment, it is estimated, by the way, that only
2.18 per cent, got to the reservoir last year. So of
every 10,000 raindrops that fall on even this good
catchment, only 124 reach the consumer. The other
9876 are lost en route.
* * * *
“Gouger”: Eel fishing has been brought to
a fine art by the natives of the Bloomfield River
(N.Q.). Sometimes the fish is speared. That is when
he wanders on the face of the waters ; but when he
stops at home unduly another procedure is adopted.
Binghi sits on a rock overhanging a deep hole, and
patiently drops into the water chopped-up pieces of
snake, gohanna or bird (snake for preference). The
tucker lures the eel to the spot, and it will even
reach up the rock a distance of 2ft. above the water
for more. Binghi promptly serves it out with a
nulla-nulla. Another method is to dive, accom-
panied by a short-handled, three-prong fish spear,
which, when the prospective meal is located by hand,
feeling along the ledges and crevices, is driven into
the body. The rest is easy. A great delicacy to black
brother is fresh-water turtle. There is one big
hole on the Bloomfield where I have seen 30 natives
mustered for the slaughter. Suddenly two young
men dive in, swim under the rock, and turtles, fish
and eels rush wildly forth. Instantly there is pande-
monium in the hole. Bucks, piccaninnies and old
men jump into the water after the frightened fish,
and to watch them struggling with a frantic turtle
or 3ft. eel is a sight to make a cinematograph’s
fortune. From this hole alone I have seen 60 turtles
hauled in triumph and loud applause.
“Pick”; Can any abobserver vouchsafe
reliable information concerning any genuine per-
formance by the latter-day black tracker? In the
days when Edward Kelly and his mob made things
dizzy for the Victorian police, the Queensland
trackers employed to assist in the hunt proved
their ability by following a trail which, at one
point, led across acres of bare rock, and at another
along the top logs of a pack fence, but since then
I have not heard of one Binghi who could do any
more in the way of tracking than could be done by
an ordinary bushman. Black trackers are still
largely employed by the police authorities in all the
States, but my experience prompts me to write
them down generally as frauds. I have known of
several cases where trackers have been put upon
bogus trails which they have followed with sublime
pretence for miles. Their favorite dodge is to
finally lose the spoor in some impassable thicket or
swamp; but it would be interesting to know how
often suspicion has descended upon an innocent per-
son through the testimony of a murky sham. A re-
cent case down the South Coast (N.S.W.) way could
be quoted for one.
THE GAVE VANCE.
A settler who went to the Northern Territory to
take up farming land has returned disappointed with
the country. He thinks that the problem of agricul-
tural settlement is not likely to be solved for some
years. —Daily paper.
NORTHERN TERRITORY F ARMER: “Shake it
up with that blank railway! D'ye want
me blank pumpkin to go rotten?"
“Papuan Boy” : Have eaten the flesh of
dugong, shark, hog, hippo, horse, ox and sundry
otner animals, but tor touguness i award the belt 10
cassowary. Tackled it one time in camp after it
had been roasted, boiled, flagellated and other-
wise remonstrated with, but it was not devourable.
But I’ll back cassowary soup against any other
liquid on the menu (beer soup, of course, ex-
cluded).
THE CARAVANSERAI
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There grows a bush on western plains,
A hardy tenant of the sands ;
Scant tribute draws it from the rains
That skirt and shun the desert lands,
Yet, in its season, though the dunes
Are bare and harsh with constant drouth,
It glows with petalled semilunes
As sweet as any of the south.
To those who leave the peopled zone
And draft the mob, or hunt the pelt,
The tract of cheery brush is known
And charted as “The Flowery Belt”—
The optimistic plant that grows
And blooms, in plenitude or dearth,
Or any blighting wind that blows,
When other weeds are drooped to earth.
Faint in the air its sweetness bides,
From many nectaries outborne.
Wherein good fare each bloom provides
For film-winged waifs on ways forlorn.
A scented sign beside the road
To whet the taste and catch the eye,
As ever goodly hostel showed
Attractive to the passer-by.
And never dusty traveller felt
More thankful for the timely ease
Than farers by the flowery belt—
Wing-weary gnats and errant bees.
“Good fare for insects all,” it cries;
“Come, outcasts of the wilted grass ;
Here's succor for the tiniest flies!
Make merry, comrades, ere you pass.”
Small wonder that its fame should spin
When welcome waits each thirsty guest.
“A very passable good inn
Where gentlemen may dine and rest;
The cellars hold the proper thing ;
The tariff is extremely low',”
Says Burnished-back to Opal-wing:
“I recommend mv friends to go!”
What though these serve ulterior ends,
And honev-scented schemes unfold
For using skilfully their friends
To circulate their pollen-gold ?
But each is welcome at the board ;
And each is happier for his gains,
When guests and hosts are in accord
And none is loser for his pains.
When lone I ride across the sands,
I doubt if it should be my lot
To fare so well at human hands.
And meet a host that reckons not;
Or find an inn for human strays
From which all luxuries are dealt,
Whose signboards with such welcome blaze
As those along the Flowery Belt!
VICTORIA.
C. G. A. COLLES.


MADE FROM LEMONS
ONLY
PUREST
STRONGEST
BEST:
n
Sporting Cartridges .
KYNOCtt MADE
‘BON AX'’
KYNOCH LOADtJ
The British
Standard of Quality.
BONAX
The Sporting Cartridge
with the largest sale
in the world.
Wholesale only,
Scottish House, 90 William St., Melbourne.
164 Pitt Street, Sydney.
AN EFFECTIVE REMEDY.
Laxo-Tonic Pills are a most effective remedy for
cleansing the blood, thus removing the cause of
pimples, blotches and other blemishes. Price,
and Is. 6d. Obtainable everywhere.*
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Svdnev.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE. Proprietor.
A QUEENSLAND EDITOR’S LETTER.
The editor of the Cunnamulla Watchman, Mr. J-
R. Tindale, writes us as follows: “I have been ,V 1
in the S.W. district of Queensland for the last
years, and for nine and a half years was editor_°
.Thargomindah Herald. During that time l
been subject to attacks of diarrhoea, and have >
in the habit of taking Chamberlains ( olic •
Diarrhoea Remedy, which has always given great
and quickly cured me.”* m
M
Foggitt, Jones
' Pork Sausages
For breakfast on a cool morning, for
night's tea, for picnics, f° r ®
Occasions when a quickly P re P* r
appetising dish is required, you H f ,n
them something special something
out of the ordinary. Keep » tin or
two in the house for emergencies
Your grocer sells them. _
The late T. Bent’s famous remark about
some political opponent being unfit to carry entrails
to a bear (Bent, of course, didn’t call them entrails),
is remembered and treasured by all collectors of in-
sults. The Bulletin pointed out some time ago
that the clean, vegetarian animal would have fled in
horror from any politician so shamefully burdened.
An item from Ohio (U.S.A.) sort of confirms this
paper in its belief. A camp cook who was in danger
of being hugged to death by a bear, spat a mouth-
ful of tobacco juice into the forest thing’s eyes. It
immediately dropped the man with the awful habit
and disgustedly waddled away like a fat clubman in
a motor-coat. If the bear is to be dragged into any
future political controversies, he should be given due
credit for his undoubted cleanliness.
“Mallarapoonie” : “Gouger” (B. 2/1/T3 ,
on the subject of bats, reminds me that one of the
principal homes of the small nocturnal flier is
among the big tableland ranges of the Upper Clon-
curry (Q.), where the last of the great outliers of
desert-sandstone still stand in age-old evidence of
the huge pre-tertiary sheet that once covered the
greater portion of this continent. These old weather-
scarred monuments of an era long since devoured by
the Grasshopper of Time are wind- and rain-worn
into innumerable caves and hollows, which are, as
a retreat for bats, equal almost to a Parliamentary
recess for a harassed Government. I was prospect-
ing years ago among the mountains of the Upper
Fullarton, and had occasion to climb one of the old
desert-sandstone knobs in order to examine the face
of it for opal-bearing indications. I had scaled to
the lip of a great cave, and drew myself over the
edge of it with some curiosity and no little trepida-
tion, for I was justified in believing that I was the
first human being who had ever trespassed in that
aeon-old recess. The cavern receded into the cliff
for some 20 paces, and terminated in a kind of great
underlay pit that seemed to go down indefinitely.
As I stooped on the edge of it, peering into the
blackness, I thought I could hear the faint tittering
of a few bats. Purely as an experiment, I picked
up a boulder of eroded sandstone and hurled it out
into the darkness. I heard the rock whistle down —-
heard it strike, burst into fragments, and go rum-
bling into the bowels of the mountain. Three
seconds later I wished I hadn’t; for I was met in
the face by a blast of foul, leathery wings, as half
the maddened bats in Christendom hustled like all
Gehenna for the open air. So great was the bat-
tornado that it was only by crouching low to the
rocky floor that I was saved from being swept away
in the stampede of terror. In another cave, in the
same region, I came upon four others of the bat
tribe that were entirely new to me. They were
some 20 inches across the wings and of a beautiful
slate-grey, running to pink at the points, like a
galah. Search of the records fails to show that this
species has been listed. I believe them to be ex-
tremely rare. When camped within that region it
was astonishing the number of bats that came
around, swooping and darting at moths and insects
in the firelight. One night, I remember, two bats,
swooping after the same moth, collided in mid-air
and fell into the fire. They scrambled out hurriedly,
half-singed, and fled into the night, shrieking with
rage. I could hear them gibbering and chattering
volubly in the distance, and the language they used
was dreadful. The moth escaped.
NO USE FOR MORE.
WORKING F OREMAN: “I could do with two
more Ends, sir."
CONTRACTOR (sarcastically): “ Why, you've,
only got two trouser pockets, haven't you?"
“Kyalo” : We’ve been hearing a lot lately
about what a man and a horse can do, but how
about a woman and a horse having a touch of the
limelight ? Before the railway arrived, a well-
known horsewoman of the district, Miss Becky Fitz-
gerald, rode from Hughenden to Winton (Q.), a dis-
tance of 120 miles (and a lonely track it was in
those days). It was summer-time, and there was
water at two places only, yet she did the trip in
daylight without dismounting more than twice. She
was a dandy rider. The moke was just an ordinary
western horse with four legs and a fly-swish.
THE ABORALIAN MIND .
BOUNDARY RIDER: "Now, be careful, Billy, and don't set the grass afire."
B ILLY: "Yes, boss, I mus' be plurry careful. They'd find me fifty poun ’ if I done that."
“Reka”: When “Tiaki” told an Abotale
of a stingaree Bft. in diameter having been caught
by the Maoris at Orakei (M.L.) some time back in
the dark ages, we were politely sceptical. The
Auckland dredge, however, did a little fishing on its
own account the other day, and proved that “Tiaki”
may have been less of a liar than we thought. Any-
how, it landed a 'stingaree 7ft. in diameter. The
back was shaped like a brown turtle-shell and was
about as hard, but it was the tail that was most
appalling. This weapon, quite a six-footer, was at
the top as thick as a man’s wrist, and spiked hor-
ribly with inch spikes. The catch occurred at a
point that is rather a favorite bathing place.
“Sunflower”: Comparatively little is
known about the wild flowers and flora of Austra-
lia’s dependency, Papua. Yet, there are
some beautiful blossoms in the back-
woods, particularly in the spring.
Amongst these is the gorgeous scarlet
bloom of the D’Albertez creeper, which
drapes the trees on the banks of many
rivers. Akin to it is a creeper locally
known as the blue D’Albertez, which
grows in the scrubs, entwining the
branches of high trees. Another wild
flower blossoms like the wattle, and re-
sembles it in all except color, being of
a coral pink shade, instead of golden.
Then there is another pink blossom which
in shape resembles three miniature tas-
selled lamp shades arranged one above the
other, and suspended by a cord through
the middle. On the banks of some of the
inland creeks grows a small plant which
has a beautiful blue flower, in shape simi-
lar to the blue-bell, though slightly larger.
Among other wild blossoms mention may
be made of one, star-shaped and white,
having six petals and resembling the
frangipani; of a heart-shaped leaf blos-
som of pure white color which when seen
amongst the green leaves resembles pel-
lets of snow ; of the red and the yellow
hybiscus; of the yellow flower of the
wild cotton ; of a bell-shaped flower of a
miniature creeper the inside of which is
a soft yellow color and the lip a dark
blood-red hue; and of the creamy white
and light pink shades of the wax-like be-
gonia and hoya blossoms. Many of these
wild flowers of Papua are scented, and
give off a perfume like attar of love-glance.
“Werrimee”: Of the two blacltfellows
playing cards in the camp, one was a stockman who
had returned to his tribe and primitive life for a
holiday, neatly dressed, and with a few shillings in
his pocket. He soon lost the coin. Then he staked his
coat, Billy, his opponent, putting down 10s. against
it. That was lost also; and vest, boots, hat, shirt
and trousers followed in quick order. Naked and
disconsolate the loser stood up and held out his
hand to the winner. “Lend me ten bob,” he re-
quested in a tone that implied that there was to be
no argument about it. The money was handed to
him. He counted it carefully, and threw it down
again. “Sell me trouser an’ tchirt,” he next com-
manded. This was done, and donning them, boot-
less .and hatless, he started off to get work.
Re a Breach of Judicial Etiquette.
A letter from Melbourne: —
The Victorian Bar has not quite ceased to be an-
noyed with Chief Justice John Madden for some-
thing he spoke from the bench a while ago. Madden
remarked that a libel case was being spun out unduly
by counsel for the sake of the fees. The litigants—
especially one of them—were known to have a lot
of money, and the lawyers—so the Judge seemed to
think —were going for more than a fair thing. But,
in the opinion of the profesh, his Honor ought not
to have blurted out the bare truth, seeing that he
was once a barrister himself, with merely moderate
scruples on his own account. All Judges, having
previously been participants in the same old game,
are considered to be guilty of unsportsmanlike con-
duct if they give the game away. Even though they
be sincere penitents, they are rather like, unto the
converted mummer who denounces the morals of the
theatrical world, or the wealthy, retired draper who
publishes the tricks of the trade. And why, asks
the Bar, should not a barrister do what is commonly
done by his brother the doctor of medicine? The
doctor spins out a case, and the surgeon charges an
abnormally fat fee for his operation, where the
patient is wealthy. Some doctors, in fact, have no
compunction where the patient is not wealthy, hut
merely able to pay. They practically compel the
nurses to join them in a conspiracy of imposition
by forbidding the sympathetic pillow-patters to “get
the patient up.” There is no be-wigged authority
who can publicly accuse a medical practitioner of
prolonging a case in the interests of his bill, there-
fore legal practitioners object to being shown up
by the Bench. It is bad for business, because it dis-
courages litigation, and it does no good to the liti-
gants who are trying their luck. The public have no
protection against the rapacity of Gentleman One.
The law is made for lawyers by lawyers, and a Judge
who happens to admit that legal procedure admits of
scandalous dishonesty to the "public, and then goes
away and says no more about it, is only calling at-
tention to the futility of his remarks. He is in a
position to play the part of a reformer, but he does
not attempt any reform, or call for anv reform, or
suggest any reform. Half the ills that the public
suffer from the law’s delays and delusions might be
cured by a committee of Judges, sitting with the
single-minded object of giving the public the largest
possible amount of justice at the least possible cost.
Such a committee can never he. Judges are the
fathers, brothers, uncles, cousins and fathers-in-law
of men who are living on the iniquities of legal pro-
cedure. They will never turn dog on their profes-
sional relatives, In their courts they sit all day,
watching the game they used to play—and saying
nothing against its character. Judge Madden’s casual
comment on one particular game was clearly a
breach of etiquette on a par, almost, with the mis-
conduct of the bird who fouls her own nest.
Britain has at last arrived at the idea of
a compulsory system of military-physical
training in connection with Continuation
Schools. The Government is throwing out
hints of its intention to propose a means
of developing the chest measurement of the
rising generation, if the weedy, risen genera-
tion is quite agreeable. But the weedy
risens are disposed to reckon themselves
Boys of the Bulldog Breed, and to scout the
suggestion that the breed is getting to be a
joke. It will be hard to convince fat, elderly
citizens of the truth —citizens who pat their
stummicks approvingly, and describe embon-
point as “condition.” They reached matur-
ity in the pre-SANDOW period, and are in-
flexible Rule Britannians. The beginning
of the modern educational influence in Brit-
ain was Eugene Sandow, the German who
settled in the country and gave it notions of
muscle even as Handel of yore gave it
notions of music. A statue of Sandow
ought to be erected on the Thames Embank-
ment, or somewhere.
For Women Only.
A document which blew into this office tv,
other day expresses to perfection the lfl ,
Liberal Mind. To read it is to he? 6
fancy a A oice bleating in a wilderness *
tea-things while ladies and also irm 01
women cheer restrainedly or shudder as
occasion demands. Although it was o nl
issued the other day it contains most of th
anti-Labor gags which were exploded as fav
back as six years ago, and for futilih
smugness and cant, and a particularly m
savory sort of disingenuousness, it i= Jr'
limit. Some extracts: —
Dear Madam, —
In asking you to become a member of the
tralian Women’s National League, we desire to i '
press upon you that its aims are of such a nature'?'
to command the support of every woman who wish«
to see Australia prosperous.
Our League places loyalty to the Throne and Fm
pire in the foreground, believing that the Unitv nf
the Empire is the strongest safeguard - of Australia’,
long coastline and her scantily peopled area. 8
We ask you to join with us in opposing by solid
and combined effort the aims of the Labor Socialistic
Government, which threatens to overwhelm Australia
and engulf her in the throes of industrial and aril
warfare. We are not against Labor, and honor and
uphold the Toiler, but we are against the Anarchist
- —the Socialist (who seeks to destroy, not to build
up)—and the domination of the Trades Hall and
Caucus Rule.
We advocate Freedom for both Employer and
Employee, and the right of all to work and
benefit by the result. Capital and labor should
co-operate on grounds of mutual interest. We up-
hold the principle of individual liberty and private
enterprise, and oppose Government Trading when it
interferes with the same.
Our Federal Platform upholds the Federal Union
as embodied in the Constitution, and one of our
principal Planks is to restore responsible Govern-
ment. We also advocate the Policy of progressive
and suitable Immigration and a sound Defence
Scheme.
Why this balderdash, about “loyalty to
Throne and Empire”? If there were any
political party of the least weight or in-
fluence which advocated the over-turning of
the Throne and the bursting-up of the Em-
pire, one might understand it. But there is
no section, worth noticing, in the whole of
this immense continent that clamors or
machinates or wishes either to separate
George V. from his job, or to dismember
the British Empire. For a political party
to put “loyalty to Throne and Empire” “in
the foreground” is, if the phrase means no
more than appears on the face of it, as im-
becile as it would be to put in the same
proud place “antipathy to diphtheria,” or
“a dogged determination to continue wear-
ing clothes.” If the aspiration has any sig-
nificance at all, if, in fact, it isn’t mere
superfluous and redundant idiocy, it amounts
to a yearning after Liberalism’s old, not to
say doddering, love, Hired Defence. The
dragging-in of references to “Australia’s
long coastline and her scantily peopled
area” support this view. In that case the
sooner the Leaguers get sense the better
for Australia. The British Government
and various British Admirals have stated in
the plainest terms, of late, that the United
Kingdom has no intention of defending Aus-
tralia’s coastline and scantily-peopled area.
Those duties the Commonwealth is expected,
by the Empire, to undertake, henceforth, on
its own. Attempts to mix up loyalty to
Throne and Empire with the policy of the
asses who conducted the Dreadnought agi-
tation are regarded by the people who are
running the Empire with apprehension and
dislike. It is stated in Plank 2 that the
present Australian Government “threatens
to overwhelm Australia and engulf her in
the tjiroes of industrial and civil warfare."
When did this peaceful bourgeois crowd do
anything of the sort? No one is preparing
for civil war after practically six years or
“Labor-Socialistic” Government. The only
serious hint of anything of the sort has come
from that earnest law-abider, Bruce Smith.
He threatened that, if the people didn't vote
the way he wanted, in the last Referendum
there would be a “bloody revolution.’ But
no one believed him. As regards Flank 0.
“Freedom for both Employer and Employee
means, simply, anti-Unionism. It needs no
elaboration that a nation of “free em-
plovees would he equivalent to a nation 0
helots. The “free” worker, during about
3GO days of the year, is as advantageously
situated as the free employer with no capi-
tal and a burst renutation. _ To ask tne
modern worker to forego Unionism, as tne
Lady Leaguer blandly does, is tantamont
to requesting the capitalist to. drop nr
wealth into the ocean. The one is as mm
a charter of independence as the other, m
first part of Plank 4 is seemingly a sort ot
anti-Referendum argument. But what tne
Leaguer’s ambition to “restore responsible
Government” in the Federal arena means
passes all comprehension. In fact, the s m
picion arises that it is pure guff. And tne
same applies to the wearisome humbug
about immigration and defence. 0 s
up, the Australian Womens Nation.
Leaarue stands for the Toryism of ten years
ago. posturing behind a species of demo< <
tic mask. Its moth-eaten old platitudes ma
do for women; they would certainly
good to fairly intelligent men. 11 *
League makes good, to any marked extern,
between now and next Federal elections,
will amount to one of the strongest
suffragette arguments that has been
vanced. ____


DRIVING THE FIRST PEG AT THE CAPITAL SITE.
The Minister for Home Affairs (Mr. O'Malle,), was ashed if there would be an, ceremon, attendant on the event. The Minister replied: “No. brother, we are ins,
going to have a drink of cold water and a temperance feast."
No. 1: The Speaker: “What a good job I though, of bringing this bucket of water, since O'Malley insists on drinking out of the Cotter."
you see “Home Affairs” and the Speaker each driving a peg according to programme. No. 3: And here you see them comparing water-blisters: "My word
how this here manual labor takes it out of you.”


When other remedies fail to cure that headache,
here’s the cure. Stearns’ Headache Cure, headache
gone in a few minutes.*
Martin s Pills are sold by all Chemists and
mores in Australasia. Ladies recommend
them. Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist. Southampton.*
BARKED YOUR SHINS?
Well, trv Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Liniment; it will
take away all the pain and stiffness, and you will
forget all about it. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s. Obtain-
able everywhere.*
• *• * -
GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY.
HATS.
F or
DURABILITY.
MN&Uft
The 1.0. A.
Australians should insure in
this Australian Company.
WHY?
Apply for Booklet Free.
The Insurance Office
of Australia Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Hobart, Perth, Rockhampton.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Father Le Maitre, head of the Passionist
order in S.A., was for eight years an officer
in the Belgian army. He also took the
diploma in agriculture at Brussels Univer-
sity. and speaks practically every language
in Europe.
John Aspery, who died at Ferndale, Sack-
ville Reach, Hawkesbury River (N.S.W.)
last week, aged 80, had this one distinction,
he was born and resided all his life in the
house in which he died. It is a common
enough distinction in England, but Aus-
tralia hasn’t netrified to that extent yet save
in spots. The Hawkesbury is one of the
spots.
John McLaughlin, the Sydney solicitor,
is putting up a record as the State’s boss
litigant. Since 1908 he has been fighting
the City Bank and the Sydney Telegraph
concerning property of his which was ad-
ministered by his wife while he was ill. The
case against the Telegraph was settled
after much argument, but the Bank matter
still rumbles along. The Privy Council has
now taken it in hand, and has allowed
McLaughlin leave to appeal from the last
decision of the High Court (Isaacs dissent-
ing). It’s remarkable how often Isaacs
does dissent.
DR. WINT HROP HACKETT, M.L.C. ,
boss of the WEST AUSTRALIAN.
The Bulletin is informed that, by rea-
son of a carelessly or casually written line in
its obituary notice of the late Louis Becke,
some misapprehension may have arisen. Mr.
Becke was married at Port Macquarie
(N.S.W.), in 1886, to Miss Bessie Mary
Maunsell, daughter of Colonel Maunsell, a
retired British officer, then P.M. at that
lonesome town. There were two children by
the marriage—a son who died when still very
young, and a daughter, now resident in
Europe. Mrs. Becke, who survives her hus-
band, is at present in Sydney.
Some of the Labor people in Adelaide are
beginning to hint to their leader, ex-Premier
John Verran, that he lacks dignity. Yerran
compounds his speeches of passages from the
Scripture, familiar phrases of the Primitive
Methodist conventicle, and such casually
affable terms as “bloke” and “nal.” The
Labor Herald suggests that “bloke” and
pal” are not absolutely necessary, and that
this sort of pose gives the Philistines a
chance to rejoice in Ashdod.
Concerning a vigorous brother in a mis-
taken cause:—
William Gittos, the best-known exponent of Chris-
tianity amongst the Maoris since George Augustus
Selwyn threw up the job to bish, in England, has re-
tired,_ after about 60 years’ argument with Henare.
And in the old savage and semi-savage days Ilenare
was not the comparatively simple proposition he is
now, when he has adopted many of the habits of his
Christian brother. Gittos reached Maoriland in 1841,
and as a youth learned to dread Henare when he was
on the warpath. But when he (Gittos) went forth
for the Church of John Wesley (about 1853) he
rapidly gained a strong influence over the natives in
the northern Wairoa and Kaipara, and more than
once prevailed on powerful bodies to keep their right
arms from grasping the tomahawks, and, by an au-
dacious courage that would have been a fortune to a
poker player, stared down fierce eyes along the gun-
sights. The saddest thing is the futility of the
strenuous work. In the transport of the soldiers of
the _ Lord were Bibles and rum bottles, tracts and
billiard tables, the Psalms of David and the three-
star of Gehenna. And Henare reckoned that
being “saved” was kapai (very good). Alas, poor
Henare, his days are few in the- land. The pace of
the Christian was too hot.
“BILL"
GAGGIN ;
old-time
cricketing
hero.
William C. Brooker, an Adelaide business
man who has a prosperous establishment in
the heart of the city with a long lease, is
relinquishing it to go into evangelical work.
He is 40 years old, and so ought to know his
own mind. He is not a Wowser, but a keen
commercial man who knows his way about
as well as any of his trade rivals.
Concerning a forgotten Messiah: —
Passed out last week, here at Wickepin (W.A.),
old man Fisher, the “Nunawading Messiah” of Vic-
toria’s last generation. He came to Westralia 10 or
12 years ago, and founded a settlement called New
Jerusalem, built a church on his own property, and
conducted services on Sundays and new-moon days.
It was his “perk” to stand on the doorstep of the
church and salute all and sundry (particularly the
girls) with a holy kiss. Between kisses he had
visions. About 1909 a split occurred amongst his
followers, and those who clove to him dwindled down
to about half a dozen. That left him so little to do
at the church door that', to make sure of a congrega-
tion of at least one, he married a girl of 18 —he
was then 79—and enjoyed about three years of matri-
mony. To the last he persisted in avowing himself
a sort of second Christ, and he had sure and certain
hopes of an early resurrection. So far, however,
nothing unusual appears to have happened at the
local cemetery.
South Australia’s biggest loss in the edu-
cational line, since a bicycle accident killed
Inspector-General Hartley years ago, is the
early death of Alfred Williams, just under
50. It was a brilliant inspiration of
the late Tom Price to offer the post
of Director of Education to a mere sub-
urban schoolmaster, who at once proceeded
to justify the startling choice. Williams’s
big work was the completing of a High
School system. which can take the clever
State school kid on to the University; but
the improved lighting and ventilating and
desking of all schools in the State was a
great practical reform, too. He was almost
at once invited to join the University Coun-
cil. Unfortunately he had not the physique
necessary for a man who wants to do several
men’s work at once, but he refused to recog-
nise the fact. Within four years from his
promotion his health was broken down, and
now in the seventh year he is dead. Maughan,
who has had much the same training, suc-
ceeds him.
Every city paper in Australia published a
par setting forth that Mr. Powers and Mr.
Piddington had accepted the proffered jobs
on the High Court Bench. And not one
headed the announcement: “Will a Duck
Swim?”
Melbourne Argus gravely published a tele-
gram that Acting Premier John Weary sent
to Premier William Watt at Fremantle.
This important Government despatch ran as
follows: “Self and colleagues wish you plea-
sant voyage ; good luck ; safe return.” Mur-
ray forgot to add, “Love and kisses.”
THE REASON.
Mr. Peter Coats, of the cotton-spinning firm of J.
and P. Coats, of Paisley, alleging as his reason the
Socialism of recent legislation, has revoked bequests
of £5OOO in favor of local infirmaries.
F AT: “ You take that!”
THE CRIPPLE: “Yes, but why?”
FAT: “Well, principally because I ain’t no
Socialist.”
Thomas Lyne, just appointed captain of
the British battleship Goliath, at the Nore,
is the first British naval captain who has
risen from the position of a “common
sailor.” At all events, he is the first for
two or three centuries, because until lately
an ancient regulation was in force which
prevented any rise beyond the status of war-
rant officer.
Dr. Hertz, who did great things in Jew-
hannesburg, is appointed Chief Rabbi for
Lnglish subjects ; so the hopes of Dr. Abra-
hams, of Melbourne; are dead. Still he
could hardly have pressed his claims, as all
the Australian Rabbis hold that there is no
occasion for a chief. America and Germany
have none. But the Rothschild, or Tory, in-
fluence was not to be denied.
S. R. Corkhill, Receiver of the
Revenue at N.S.W Treasury, has handed®
in his keys after 40 years’ toil, and retire
on his pension. His retirement simultane
ously with that of C. G. L. Boyce, Com
troller of Accounts, makes a large' gan
the warehouse where we store Cohenhw
interest. UU P $
The cable tells of the death of Dr E M
nard Pain, superintendent of a missionary
hospital in Cairo, Egypt. The dead m 2
was the second son of the Bishop of Ginns
land. Before leaving to take a
medical-missionary’s job i
years ago, he married ' Mu.,.
Ethe! Clark, a. Prince Alfil
(Sydney) Hospital nurse, She
died, _ whereupon the widower
married Judge Docker’s daugh-
ter Bishop Pain (who is uncle
of Barry Pain, the novelist!
was threatened with consumn
tion as a young man, and was
sent on a voyage to Australia
ns a last hope of saving his life
This was over 40 years ago. He
landed in Sydney, married Miss
Thorne, of Castle Hill, was for
many years rector of St. John’s
Darlmghurst, and finally ac-
cepted an apron and a pair of
gaiters on the'Victorian side of
the Murray.
George Burwin, who must have been Aus-
tralia’s oldest native, or thereabouts, died at
Tumbarumba (N.S.W.) the other day. He
was born at Windsor, on the Hawkesbury 91
years ago, and had been a bushman all his
days. As a young man he overlanded cattle
to Port Phillip and Adelaide, and as a some-
what older man he was a member of one of
the expeditions sent out to see whether Leich-
hardt was dead or merely dreaming again.
Apropos Powers’s appointment to the
High Court Bench, and the fact that, though
a barrister, he preferred the work (or pay)
of the “lower branch,” and so got himself
disbarred. The biggest Chief Justice N. S
W Mes has known was James Martin. And
the Australian Chief Justice whose judg-
ments have been least often disturbed on
appeal is Way, of Adelaide. And both by
a coincidence, were at one time solicitors
Martin often appeared in the police court'
M ay was still a member of a firm which de-
voted itself mostly to attorney’s work when
he climbed on to the Bench. But it doesn’t
follow that because Powers and Martin were
both solicitors they stand on the same foot-
ing. As a case in point, Tennyson and Jaw-
bone Neild were both poets.
Died in Seattle, on the Pacific Slope, Tre-
mayne Dunstan, who a few years ago made
the highly respectable old Pitt-street (Syd-
ney ) Congregational tabernacle rock on its
foundations. He was a Cornish preacher
w h<| could froth beautifully; but his busi-
ness incapacity was monumental, and when
the duns drove him hard the pastor simply
bit tlie ears of the most susceptible ewes of
his flock. When the ewes started to bleat
he fled to the United States, but thought
better of it, and returned to tell his story in
the Insolvency Court. Luck was, however,
against him, and the best he could do was
found something that was 10 per cent,
church and 90 per cent, marriage shop. Up
never relished the job, and presently faded
out a second time to America, where, after
a spell as a travelling lecturer, he more
or less settled down again to his old shep-
herding job.
A MATTER OF QUALIFICATIONS.
Mr. J. Cook referred to the necessity for an abso-
lutely solid Liberal front at the coming elections. —
Sydney TELEGRAPH.
B IGJOHN: “ Ho! 'Then p’raps you wouldn’t
mind tellin’ me now ’oo’s best filled I lead
a respectable, right-thinkin' party like outs
into battle, eh?”
Reverend Albert Knight, the Leeds parson
who went giddy with a Sunday-school teacher
of the opposite sex, is said to be bringing the
lady to Melbourne, aboard a steamer which
comes due next week. He will arrive in the
character of the Silver King, for in an
alleged statement to the British public, sent
by_ wireless, he said : “Feeling I had brought
ruin and disgrace on the church, I thought
by dying in one country I might recover a
new reputation.” Which means that, the
night before the boat gets to Melbourne, the
unfortunate ex-shepherd intended to kneel
upon the deck and cry, “Wilfred Denver is
dead ! To-morrow I begin a new wife.”
LOUIS BECKE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They’re at their age-long harvest still—the angel
Death and Time—-
But ebb or flow, we all must go, and leave the
broken rhvme.
Wide blue with whiteeaps here and there—the glory
of the day—
A space of seascapes wond’rous fair, in Islands far
away ;
Faint silver on the distant reef, on skylines scarce
a fleck,
But fleecy clouds of blest-relief that welcome Louis
Becke.
Who’ll miss the well-loved stuttering speech ?
Who’ll mind the distant date
IV hen by the mast and palm-fringed beach those halt-
ing words had weight!
Who’d dream those sad, kind, manly eyes, when
traders were “in holts,”
In summer Isles of Paradise could glint behind a
Colt’s?
We only know “By Reef and Palm”—the world he
made his own— :
(The later wounds, without a balm, are better never
known).
We live and fight by day and night in carking care
and strife,
And take our pen in death to write the story of our
life.
Farewell, my friend—’twill ne’er be told—or told
in printed line
(Your destiny in days of old was strongly linked
with mine).
I trust my track shall run as true, though come it
late or soon,
When my name shall be missing, too, from “Some
Birthdays in June.”
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.
THE NATURAL CONSEQUENCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The burning of Mr. Lloyd George’s country villa
has been followed by another outrageously wicked act
of incendiarism—the destruction of a tea-house in the
Koyal Botanical Gardens at Kew.
Mrs. Flora Drummond, when interviewed regarding
the suffragettes’ latest outrage, exclaimed: “How
womTnl”-JalL 0f 11161111 lam Pr ° Ud ° f Such
The prisoner was dressed with care;
A costly orchid decked his coat;
The parting in his glossy hair
Climbed nobly up to parts remote.
His monocle and loose-hung jaw
Expressed a mute, eternal “Haw!”
His speech was crisp, his grammar good;
At intervals he pawed his tie;
He looked, as ev’ry real gent should,
The judge and jury in the eye.
I asked a lawyer, tall and thin,
“What sort of scrape is this boy in?”
“That chap belongs,” the lawyer said,
“To London’s Very Nicest gang!
With bombs he killed nine statesmen dead,
And if his luck is out, he’ll hang.
It is a finish crude and grim,
But his mamma is proud of him.
“She used to be a suffragette
When loaded bombs became the thing;
Lloyd George with snails she used to fret,
And worms at Winston Churchill fling.’
But first to Fame she made her bow
When she blew up a Liberal cow.
“From that to arson was a stride
That even narrow skirts might take;
In motor-’buses she would ride,
While Ministers would flee and quake;
I or years she was a well-known sight
With handbag full of dynamite.
“The dear old lady now looks back
With pride to that sweet, early day
When down to ruin and to wrack
She brought the things that barred her way.
It’s int’resting to hear her views
As she sits stuffing home-made fuse.
“She says, of course, explosives now
Are not so good. And how she dotes
Upon the memory of the cow
She first blew up for women’s votes!
When he blew up his group of nine,
She cried, ‘How perfectly divine l’ ”
The criminal had all the signs
Of noble birth. His weeping Judge
Was built on bulldog-monkey lines
A warder gave the doomed a nudge.
I glimpsed, as he walked towards the noose,
His proud old mother knitting fuse.
N.S.W.
E. O’F.


THREE CASTLES CIGARETTES
Z/terc <s no sweeter
ZTotcicco comes .from
VtrginicL and no better
brand than the
tz
iZ/RG/rv/Arv^.,,
THACKERAY —THE
X
Col
tie
v
. :
T 9
&
%
/
B 3
Zr
set
?l
\V
v_
V.
a
o
cr
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The manufacturers are now packing in every 20s Upright
Tin of “Three Castles Cigarettes” a handsome Satin Flag useful for home
decorative purposes. A printed folder illustrating several methods of utilising
these Satin Flags, and stating how to ge, a larger Flag free
Upright Tin. When purchasing be sure the tin contains a Satin Flag a
THE WORLD-WIDE FAMOUS BRAND OF
W. D. and H. 0. WILLS.


WORTHINGTON PUMP COMPANY LTD.
PUMPS—STEAM, AIR or MOTOR DRIVEN, CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS
CONDENSERS and COOLING TOWERS. GAS and OIL ENGINES and
GAS PLANTS. MINE VENTILATING FANS, AIR COMPRESSORS
FEED WATER HEATERS & PURIFIERS. OIL & STEAM SEPARATORS.'
For Catalogues and
Information apply—
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY
SU “' ;0UP, 1^r.r-r: f rr.™:
C. A. PARSONS U CO., Newcastle-on-Tyne,
have supplied over ao.o«, B.H.P. „ P tuples a“nb 1
Sole Australasian
Agents—
WILLIAM ADAMS <», COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney, Melbourne, Hrisbanr, Perth.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
City of Newcastle Gas and Coke Co.
(N.S.W.) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1905.. £3835 15 p.c. = £3375 £460 £51,503
Dec., 1905.. 3544 15 ~ ~ 3375 169 51,672
June, 1906.. 4111 15 ~ ~ 3375 736 52,408
Dec., 1906.. 4560 15 ~ ~ 3375 1,185 53,593
June. 1907.. 4925 15 ~ „ 3375 1,550 55,143
Dec., 1907.. 4714 15 ~ ~ 3375 1,339 56,482
June, 1908.. 4682 15 ~ ~ 3375 1,307 57,789
Dec., 1908.. 5327 15 ~ ~ 3375 1,952 59,741
June, 1909.. 5511 15 ~ ~ 3375 2,136 61,877
Dec., 1909.. 5727 15 ~ ~ 3375 2,352 64,229
Premiums on new shares.. .. 10,565 74,794
June,l9lo.. 4780 15 p.c. = 3969 811 75,605
Dec., 1910.. 7358 15 ~ ~ 4107 3,191 78,796
June, 1911.. 6563 15 ~ ~ 4167 2,396 81,192
Premiums on new shares.. .. 5,282 86,474
Dec., 1911.. 7191 15 p.c. = 4497 2,694 89,168
Premiums on new shares.. .. 5,282 94,450
June,1912.. 6739 15 p.c. = 4894 1,845 96,295
£66,370 Reserves transferred to capital .. 29.925
Unexplained additions to reserves.. 1,377 31,302
Dec., 1912.. 7089 10 p.c. = 6637 452 31,754
The last few lines are as near as this paper can get
to the facts ; and it can only get there by guessing a
little. Most N.S.W. gas cos. have been busy making
capital out of nothing that is visible to the naked
eye, and very few of them go on the stage and show
their own particular juggle. Six months ago this one
had £96,295 of reserves, including premiums on new
shares; and its capital was £66,130. Subsequently
£240 of capital was allotted, and presumably the
co. got the same amount in premiums. That brought
the capital up to £66,370. The capital now, how-
ever, appears as £132,740, and no explanation is
made of the change. Reserves to the extent of
£64,993 have been visibly drawn upon; but in the
table it has been assumed that two shares for one
have been issued, and that the extra £1377 required
has been forthcoming from premiums, undisclosed pro-
fits or other sources. The juggle is, of course, the
result of the new Gas Act, which gives this co.,
among others, six months to capitalise its reserves.
Thereafter it may pay only 10 p.c. so long as the
present price of gas is maintained. But as shares
have been doubled, 10 p.c. now is as good as 20
p.c. would have been; and as the co. has hitherto
paid only 15 p.c., the new law is really putting
money into the shareholders’ pockets. Even with the
capital doubled, the co.’s position is strong, and, as
the table shows, over £30,000 of reserves remain;
and, if a valuation supports the present book value of
the assets—in other words, if a valuation shows the
reserves to be real—the directors will surely make use
of their six months’ grace to capitalise this £30,000.
There is all the more justification for this because
so large a proportion of the co.’s reserves was derived
from premiums on the new issues. On the figures
available there is enough to warrant the issue of one
new share for five present shares —or even two for
every nine. For the rest, all that need be said is
that, though the co. has been spending a lot of
money lately, and has provided itself with a new
manufacturing outfit, its financial position is, as
usual, very easy: its liabilities amount to £13,836,
while its liquid assets (including £20,674 of N.S.W.
Funded Stock) run to £32,774.
The Electric Light and Power Supply
Corporation, Ltd. (Sydney), which started with a
deficit of £9876, representing Parliamentary rights
and other preliminary exes.:—
Written
Loss. Dividends. Off. Deficit.
May, 1908.. £9,876
Dec., 1908.. £304 10,180
June, 1909.. 183 10 363
Dec., 1909.. 298 10, 661
June, 1910.. 219 10,880
Further goodwill items added, £1346 .. 12,226
Profit.
Dec., 1910.. 1104 £530 11,652
June, 1911.. 1406 sp.c.= £1075 531 11,852
Dec., 1911.. 2321 5 ~ ~ 1075 680 11,286
June, 1912.. 3255 7 ~ ~ 1505 1164 10,700
Dec., 1912.. 3158 7 „,, 1505 1000 10,047
The share capital is £50,000, in £1 shares; 7000
rank as ordinaries, and were issued to the promoters ;
all others are preferential. The co. was formed to
supply Balmain with a garbage destructor, and, in
return, Parliament, at the request of the local coun-
cil, gave it the right to start up in business as a
purveyor of electric light and power. Having got
hold of Balmain, it started to feel out as- a com-
petitor with the gas co. and municipal enterprise,
and made contracts with Newtown, Leichhardt,
Petersham and Ashfield to supply them with current
for periods up to 57 years. This called for more
capital, so 7 p.c. debentures were issued; there are
now £67,300 of liabilities under that head, plus
£29,456 under others, including bank overdraft.
This means a big, bite out of revenue before share-
holders can get anything on their own plates. Busi-
ness has, however, increased so rapidly that there is
now a fine margin beyond the requirements of a 7
p.c. dividend. This surplus is being used (1) to
write down plant, etc., on account of depreciation,
and (2) to get rid of the preliminary expenses and
other paper assets. There is a good deal to be done
in that way yet before the substantial assets can show
20s. in the £ of the capital. Also, in estimating
the probable future it has to be noted that several
of the contracts which have been entered into pro-
vide that the co. shall treat the other party as favor-
ably as the City of Sydney municipal electric light
and power department treats its customers under
similar contracts. As the municipal enterprise isn’t
out after dividends, but simply wants to make in-
terest and a bit over for sinking funds, etc., this
will most likely serve as a check on this co.’s profits.
Manly Gas Co. (N. S. Wales) :
Writ- To
ten Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.serves
1902 .. £1497 7 p.c. = £lO5O £4OO £47 £285
1903 .. 1445 7i „ „ 1125 400 205
1904 .. 1830 8 „ „ 1200 400 230 435
1905 . . 2093 8 „ ~ 1200 650 243 678
£l2OO dropped into Reserves without remark 1878
1906 . . 1638 9 p.c. = 1498 140 2018
1907 .. 1969 9 ~ „ 1639 330 2348
1908 . . 2454 9J „ „ 1964 , 490 2838
1909 .. 2273 10 ~ „ 2566 2545
Premiums, on new shares . . . . 1054 3599
1910 . . 3219 10 p.c. = 3195 24 3623
1911 . . 4076 10 „ „ 3816 260 3883
1912 .. 6350 10 ~ ~ 4247 2103 5986
Like other N.S.W. gas cos., this one now admits that
its published accounts hitherto have been —well, what?
Cooked is a nasty term. Yet the present accounts
show two balance-sheets, one as at Dec. 31, 1912,
and the other as at Jan. 31, 1913, and the latter
discloses about one-sixth more assets than the
former. Hitherto the object of the N.S.W. gas cos.
has been to show that they weren’t bad sharks, that
they weren’t biting very much out of the public,
and that there really wasn’t any justification for
municipal competition or State interference. In pur-
suance of that policy they usually disclosed just
enough profit to cover as big a dividend as they
thought it prudent to pay, and stuffed away surplus
profit (which they didn t show) in new works. Then
came the Carmichael bomb and finally the new Gas
Act, prohibiting further bonus distributions after six
months grace had expired, and limiting the dividend
on new and old capital. A new position was thus
created. It then paid the cos. best to shake out all
the hidden profits from their sleeves and capitalise
them. That meant a revaluation of assets straight
away, and this co. has just completed the job.
Apparently the fixed assets have been written up
from £56,608 to £65,356. The difference between
these amounts is added to reserves; and out of the
reserves a bonus of 20 p.c. will be paid on March 7.
Simultaneously a call of 2s. 6d. will be made on
the newest lot of 60,000 shares, which will make them
paid to 45., and Is. on 30,000 shares paid at present
7s - J There are also 30,000 fullv-paid shares,
they will draw their bonus in cash. The bonus will
mean paying out in all £9150; the calls, made
simultaneously, will bring in £9OOO.
As at Dec. 31 in the several years the position
has been as follows:
1902. 1909. 1910. 1911. 1912.
Capital . £15,000 £28,750 £37,475 £41,250 £45,452
Liabilities 2,390 8,953 5,680 6,954 6,759
lixed assets 15,848 35,019 39,050 44,909 49 182
Other assets 2,753 6,602 9,390 9,119 11 201
Sales of gas,
etc. . . 4,417 10,115 11,956 13,082 15,498
The visible surplus after paying the dividend has
been small; and even giving the co. credit for
tne written-up values, it has not done anything ex-
traordinary. But the future is very bright. Revenue
has more than trebled in 10 years, and it hasn’t
stopped growing; further, owing to the rapid multi-
plication of consumers along existing mains, the
profit should be larger in proportion to the capital
outlay than it was a few years back. The debts are
small; and it will be possible to double the present
fixed assets by getting in the uncalled capital. And
here arises an interesting point. The Gas Act says
1 n • the proflts to be divided shall not exceed
£lO m respect of every £lOO actually paid up of
such [original] capital, and on the additional capital
t ° be raised after the passing of this Act the rate
ot £7 in respect of every £lOO actually paid up of
SU j capital as shall be issued as ordinary capital,”
and ., s P- c -, on , P ref - capital. Nothing is said about
capital to be hereafter called in on partly-paid shares
But in the interpretation clause “original capital” is
said to mean “all moneys paid or to be paid... by
the shareholders in respect of fullv or partially
paid,, up shares issued prior to the passing of this
annnn I' 6 Co. has, as before-mentioned,
60,000 shares which will be paid to 45., and 30 000
shares which will be paid to Bs. 6d. ; and apparently
lbs. and 11s. 6d. respectively may be called up on
those shares, and the capital thus got in will be
entitled to 10 p.c., whereas no capital got in by the
issue of new shares can carry more than 7 p.c. In
issuing a big swag of new shares, and calling only a
few pence on them, the Manly Co. must have known
something. Or, if it didn’t know anything, it had
extraordinary luck.
WILLIAMSTOWN CtAS Co. (Vic.) ;
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
n F r ofirs - Dividends. Off. serves.serves.
Dec., 1904.. £1252 8 p.c. = £lOOO £l7O £B2 £6 104
June, 1905.. 1321 8 „,, 1000 250 71 e’l7s
Dec., 1905.. 1357 9„„ 1125 230 2 6 177
June, 1906.. 1519 9 „ „ U 25 250 144 6,321
Dec., 1906.. 1787 9 ~ ~ 1125 350 312 6 633
June, 1907.. 1653 9 ~ ~ 1125 250 278 6 911
Dec., 1907.. 1894 10 ~ ~ 1250 350 294 7,205
June, 1908.. 1860 10 ~ ~ 1250 350 260 7 465
Dec., 1908.. 1923 10 ~ 1250 250 423 7 888
June, 1909.. 2213 10 „ 1250 - 963 8 851
Dec., 1909 . 2152 10 „ „ 1250 902 9 753
June, 1910.. 2204 10 „ „ 1250 954 10 707
Dec., 1910.. 2273 10 „„ 1250 - 1023 11730
June, 1911,. 2543 10 ~ , 1250 1 9 93 13 o^B
Dec., 1911.. 2946 10 „„ 1250 - 1696 u 719
June, 1012.. 3265 10 „„ 1250 - 2015 lfi’734
Dec., 1912.. 3301 10 ~ ~ 1250 2051 18Y85
The reserves include: General renewal fund, £7784 •
meter renewal fund, £1221; depreciation fund for
works on leasehold, £2450. Those don’t look verv
f°e9l srw rVe +k and * t* 16 ™ amounts added to them
( £2150 for the past half-year) look as though they
might have to come off the profits in order to pre-
sent the real results for the half-year. And if £2150
is deducted from £3301 there isn’t enough left to
pay the 10 p.c. div. However, things are probably
better than that; in other words, fair depreciation,
etc., probably doesn t call for as much as £2150 in
six months. You can look at it another way. Seven
years ago the more or less liquid assets were £5461
more than the liabilities. They are now £3948
more, showing a shrinkage of £1513 in seven years.
noPo? 1 , 6 ’ however, fixed assets have increased from
£26,884 to £41,269, or by nearly £15,000; and
as no new capital has been got in, it means that cur-
rent revenue in excess of working exes, and divi-
dends has supplied the money. As against that ex-
penditure on additional plant, mains, etc., there has
no doubt, been some general depreciation, though it
is not likely to have been so much as that The
position may, therefore, be quite satisfactory. The
accounts ought to make things plainer than they
do. ror instance, the value of most of the assets is
shown less depreciation.” Yet, on the other side,
there are depreciation reserves. This may mean
that depreciation was formerly written off, but that
current depreciation is not written off. If that is
so, the remark, “less depreciation,” is so liable to be
misread that it wouldn’t be going too far to call it
misleading.
* * * *
Cascade Brewery Co. (Hobart,
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1904 .. £3920 6 p.c. = £3402 £5lB £5,823
June, 1905 . . 4606 6 ~ „ 3402 1204 7 027
Dec., 1905 . . 3472 6 „ „ 3402 70 7^097
June, 1906 . . 4266 6 „ „ 3402 864 7,961
Dec., 1906 . . 3497 6 ~ ~ 3402 95 8,056
June, 1907 . . 4734 6 „ „ 3402 1332 9,388
Dec., 1907 . . 3637 6 ~ „ 3402 235 9,623
June, 1908.. 4698 6 „ „ 3402 1296 10,919
Dec., 1908 . . 3298 6„ „ 3402 10,815
June, 1909 . . 3823 6 ~ „ 3402 421 11,236
Dec., 1909 . . 3092 6 ~ „ 3442 10 886
June, 1910 . . 4871 6 „ ~ 3442 1429 12 315
Dec., 1910 . . 7135 6 „ „ 3402 3733 16^048
June, 1911 . . 3190 6 „ „ • 3402 15 836
Dec., 1911 . . 4064 6 „ „ 3402 662 16^498
June, 1912 . . 3444 6 „ „ 3402 42 16,540
Dec., 1912 . . 3602 6 „ „ 3402 200 16,740
This co. is carrying a heavy load of debt, represented
by assets which are probably not earning very much.
This shows some of the figures:—
Liabilities.
Dec., ’O2 June,’l2. Dec.,’l2.
Mortgages and deposits. . £94,132 £91,405 £90,775
Overdrafts, etc. .. .. 25,740 33,242 31,519
Assets.
Hotels, properties, etc. . . 180,482 181,871 183,587
Stock and plant . . 35,412 „ 42,875 37,500
Book debts, etc. .. 19,010 28,529 30,153
Gash and liquid assets. . 166 70 7
Capital is £108,000; and the liabilities, apart from
ordinary trade debts, exceed that amount. Interest
runs to £5OOO a year or more; and that goes on no
matter whether trade is dull or brisk. And, as men-
tioned above, it is highly probable that a good deal
of the expensive money is bringing in little or
nothing. “Hotels, properties, etc.,” represent
£183,587, and the properties include the big Cas-
cade estate, on the slopes of Mt. Wellington. Some-
day it may be exceedingly valuable: meantime there
is no sparkle in this asset. As a matter of fact,
there’s a lot to be said in favor of cutting the Cas-
cade Co. in two, and turning the estate and land-
subdivision business over to a separate concern. Apart
from the fact that the people who successfully run
a brewery are liable to know nothing at all about
estate agency and land subdivision, it is inadvisable
that the figures relating to the two should be lumped.
The brewery may, for instance, be doing very poorly;
yet a profit may be made on the sale of some of the
estate, and the truth about the real business of the
co. is then disguised. This wouldn’t matter, per-
haps, if the two businesses would run on together
indefinitely; but one is a terminating business—you
can’t go on selling the same land for ever. Meantime
the investor can note definitely only two or three
things: (1) the size of the mortgages and other pre-
ferential claims on the assets; (2) the poor additions
to reserves, in spite of the public’s flush pockets and
the plentiful supply of invitations to have another.
The former circumstance doesn’t add to the security
of the principal, of course ; while the latter gives no
hint of an increased dividend, but suggests that it
would be impossible to pay even 6 p.c. if times were
a little less affluent.
* * * *
The Australian Wood Pipe Co. (Syd-
ney) was formed about the middle of 1909, to make
and sell certain wood pipes. The deficit to begin
with represented patents and other goodwill items,
plus preliminary exes.:—
Towards lie- De-
Profits. Dividends. serves. fieit.
July, 1909.. —.— i:7462
Dec., 1909.. £415 Nil £415 7047
Loss.
June, 1910.. 19 Nil 7066
Goodwill items, £36 .. 7102
Profits.
Dec., 1910.. 183" 10 p.c. = £B9B 932 6170
Goodwill items, £ll .. 6181
June, 1911.. 2447 10 p.c. = 1085 1362 4819
Goodwill items, £2B .. 4847
Dec., 1911.. 1592 lOp.c. = 1370 222 4625
June, 1912.. 3221 10 „ ~ 1500 1721 2904
Goodwill items, £B6 .. 2990
Dec., 1912.. 3349 lOp.c. = 2160 1189 1801
The business is new to Australia, and it has the advan-
tage of having a pushful crowd behind it. Partly on
that account, partly because Australia has lately wanted
things done in a hurry, and partly because this
country finds it easier to chop down a tree than
laboriously turn ironstone into metal, the co. didn’t
have to wait long for a big turnover. Starting in
Sydney with a capital of £15,000, it soon got con-
tracts in Victoria, and found it desirable to put up
works also in Melbourne; and now an order for
£30,000 worth of the goods has arrived from the S.
Aus. Government with the condition that works also
go up in that State. The original 15,000 shares have
therefore been swollen already to 49,100, 37,500 of
them fully paid and the rest paid to 10s. The new
works at Adelaide are now under construction. For-
tunately for the co. the plant isn’t elaborate; the
Sydney and Melbourne works, along with anything
that has been paid on those in S. Aus., stand in
the books at only £14,623. An annual 10 p.c. has
been written off against depreciation. This allow-
ance is deducted from the profits shown above. Among
the contracts in hand is one for over £39,000 worth
of pipes to connect the Government’s new Umberum-
berka reservoir and Broken Hill; and if the pipes can
stand in that climate it will be a whooping advt. for
the co. And it will be all the more whooping be-
cause Broken Hill is higher than Umberir.nberka,
wherefore, unless pumping is maintained continuously,
the pipes will be dry at times. The original deficit
has been almost wiped out. That is to say, the capi-
tal is now almost wholly represented by substantial
assets. But the character of those assets has to be
kept in mind. Property, plant, etc., stand for
£14,623; stocks on hand, £15,430; sundry debtors
and deposits, £13,796. If anything went wrong with
the show, the first two items wouldn’t be gilt-edged ;
if it had to realise, the co. might get 10s. or 15s. in
the £ for them. However, nothing that suggests
trouble is showing on the horizon. Now and then,
as the table shows, a few pounds are added to the
goodwill, presumably for patents. But the big thing
is not covered by patent rights. Anybody can make
wood pipes—a further point to be kept in the eye
in appraising the quality of Wood Pipe stock as an
investment. Not that it makes it a bad-quality in-
vestment : it merely lays the concern open to com-
petition, which has a steadying influence on charges,
profits and dividends.
* * * *
The Deniliquin and Moama Railway
Co. (N.S.W.) :
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
Dec., 1904. .£2412 = £1250 £1 £40,207
June, 1905 . . 436 2| „ „ 1250 39,393
Dec., 1905 . . 3615 24 „ „ 1250 41,758
June, 1906 . . 1143 2 i „ ~ 1250 -- 41,651
Dac., 1906 . . 6515 5 „ „ 2500 45,666
June, 1907 . . 2189 5 „ ~ 2500 ■— 45,355
Dec., 1907 . . 6863 0 „ ~ 2500 49,718
June, 1908 . . 2812 5 ~ ~ 2500 50,030
Dec., 1908 .. 4700 5 ~ „ 2500 52,230
June, 1909 . . 1321 6 „ „ 2500 51,051
Dec., 1909 . . 5431 5 „ „ 2500 53,982
June, 1910 . . 1797 5 ~ ~ 2500 53 279
Dec., 1910 . . 6808 5 ~ ~ 2500 57’587
June, 1911.. 2049 5 .. „ 2500 57,136
£25,000 of reserves transferred to capital 32,136
Dec., 1911 .. 7676 5 p.c. = 3125 36,687
.Tune, 1912 . . 2385 5 „ „ 3125 35,947
Dec., 1912 . . 5066 5 ~ „ 3125 37,888
This co.’s line taps a dry part of Western Riverina
and connects with the Victorian State system at
Moama. The big landlord flourishes in those parts,
and the average 16in. of rainfall doesn’t encourage
the small man to look that way with much en-
thusiasm yet awhile. Meantime the co., serving a
poorly settled district which is liable to rather bad
spehs o f drought, jogs along in a sleepy fashion.
Still its position has improved a good deal in 10
years:—
T . ~ 1902. 1912.
Liquid assets .. ..£12,337 £24,011
Liabilities .. .. 31,814 20,670
Excess liabilities .. ..£19,477
Excess assets , ..
That shows an improvement of £22,818, represented
either by reduced debt (there are still £2O 000 of
4 p.c. debentures outstanding) or increased deposits
( t he se now total £15,783). This makes the co.
about £BOO a year better off than it was 10 years
ago. There are no big things ahead of the co. ; on
the other hand, what with the improved financial
position and the saner methods of working the west-
ern pastoral country now in vogue, there is not much
likelihood of the bottom falling out of the business
On the contrary, the tendency seems to be towards
a slow but steady improvement in the yield Re-
pairs and renewals appear to be well provided for out
of current revenue.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co Hip
big silver, lead and zinc producer:—
Gross Divi- D - •
Profits, dends. Loss denrl
May, ’O4 £126,874 £120,000 May, ’O9 £5!) o*9 Nil
N0v.,’04 158,274 96,000 Gross 1
May, ’O5 170,149 144,000 Profits
N0v.,’05 227,300 144,000 N0v.,’09 55 996 xm
May, 'O6 253,473 192,000 May, ’lO 4f1!047 £4B 000
Nov.’-Ofi 345,622 240,000 Nov.’,’lo 124 938 48 000
May, ’O7 331,125 240,000 May, 'll 155 967 48 000
N0v.,'07 153,599 288,000 Not.,’ll 239 731 96 000
No'v’ Z 34'430 7 %T r V ’ ’ l2 20 ’V1« I2oX
-Nov., 08 34,430 Nil Nov., ’l2 177,594 144 000
Though £177,594 is a good deal of monev, it is
a bit of a mystery why the co. made less this la it
half-year than it did in the previous two terms. The
metal markets are the most important factor in
determining profits at Broken Hill • an a
for the past half-year have been exceptional, aVera^s
Lead . Silver, * aigh;
per ton. Der ’ Spelter,
May, 1910.. £l3 2s. Od. 2s oim P e rton.
W:: St'tt tSS : “°" M-
iS'.'iSS:: “i£ a =i »
Nov., 1912.. 19 4S. 7d. 2s! J 65d }26 3s. Gd.
Moreover, the output for the past half-year ,
co. s own mine has been fairly well ■°, ra th <‘
at Nov., 1911, it was 121,139 ton? V a lned ' A *
111,285 tons; Nov., 1912, 120 839 ton S M Th 1912>
put of ore from the mine is, however nnui^ 6 out>
lmportance nowadays. Practically the enriJ Upreme
goes to the mill, which sent out 24 355 °* Utput
centrates; and by regrinding another Z\? t o "'
came from the “tailings” dumps That s 7, tons
total output of 27,412 tons of this mine? ak ? s a
But the smelters treated 77,086 tons of ronceS*'
so for every one ton of B. H. Prop material 1 tes;
two tons of other material were smelted a near, - v
15,582 tons of purchased oxidised ore d ’Tha? g u Wlth
the extent to which the co. is nowadays L b ° m
buyer; and, obviously, in that business vof. ■'
tell from one half-year’s profits what an? efh 1
half-year’s profits are going to be. any tller
Really the co. carries on three businesses- m
mines and reduces its own silver-lead ore m !
buys and reduces other .people’s silver-lead ore an
more than trebles its output of metal thereby-’ and
(3) it concentrates its “tailings,” and eitw ■ u
the zinc concentrates or exports them Thn - e ts
production business has been extraordinarily profitable
of late. This shows the output:— y prontabie
Concentrates
May, 1910 .. .. 99 436 tons aKtf
Nov., 1910 .. .. 179,713,, 43 907 ° nS ’
May, 1911 .. .. 178,125 44’??! ”
Nov., 1911 . . . . 199,117 Ig 19?
May, 1912 .. .. 168,309 , 46 005 ”
Nov., 1912 . . . . 148,132 ” 42,003 ”
The directors say: “The average profit per ton” of
tailings since the inception of the zinc concentration
plant in 1904 has been Bs. per ton, while for the
two years it has been over 145.” Assuming tha?™
average of 14s has been made in he past
months then this branch of the business was re
sponsible for a profit of £103,694. That accounts for
a big slice of the total of £177,594, and doesn’t
120 a - 1 ? M)un 1 t 4o be accounted for by the
120,839 tons of silver-lead ore and the custom busi
ness. A great deal, of course, depends upon the
price at which the unmarketed metal is valued • and
on that point the management says the usual nothing
of i , fact .Vmight iust as well be ad-
mitted at once that if the co. wants to make profits
for any one half-year look £50,000 or so less the
thing can be done with ease and absolute safety.’
General-manager Delprat estimates that there are
fn°sLht oThe 0 The 0 l tO ? S ° f -° re “ of . the usua l quality”
in sight. The last previous estimate, made about
three years ago, gave 2,750,000 tons; so it is clear
that very little has been developed during the last
few years, and it is not probable that any quantity
to speak of remains undiscovered. The prospecting
in the lowest workings has given mostly blanks
Owing to the complex business of the co. “it is im-
possible to say what profit the ore is giving nowa-
days, apart from the zinc. The existing “tailings”
dumps contain 1,150.000 tons At 10s. per ton there
is 12s. 6d. a share in that lot, and as much in the
ta lings to be got from the ore yet to be mined
But everything depends on the markets. In 1908
zinc (spelter) averaged only £2O 3s. sd. Last
Tone shown ab °ve, it averaged £26 3s. 6d. In
te f rZnnn°f pr ° flts ° f the whole business shrank
to £65,000 for the 12 months. And though lead
averaged £l9 4s 7d last half-year, it is now worth
in 30000 + 2 ' 6d i , Th f Co ‘ S own ores i? ave 29,000
to 30,000 tons of lead last half-year. It doesn’t
need mueh of an accountant to figure out what a fall
ot £2 12s. per ton means on that output.
The co. s next big job will be to wrestle with iron
and steel production in Australia. David Baker the
American who came out to advise the co., will take
wPWip °f i thlS f branch > he is about due now. It
nletl? m 6a f- tw< ? years before the works are com-
g with i? 1 ® the Ti? not I,la king much nro-
19Too tn? f zln e;ProduetK,n. Of approximately
tratM°W Koif sr * e^ber contained in its zinc concen-
wfth 91? half-year, all it produced was 1367 tons,
, lf 2 t °" s of blue powder. Four-fifths of the
output is still exported for the foreigner to smelt,
not for want of plant, because some of the furnaces
were occasionally idle, but because, it is alleged,
mat/er?.* 8 not availal ? le - Presumably it is all a
matter of pay; or, perhaps, it is a matter of getting
nff?rpd CCU Tf t 0 t 0 thls sort of work at the pav
ottered. It is a warm job.
Co^~° KEN Hill SouTn Silver Mining
„ _. . Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves
Dec., 1904.. £51,119 £20,000 £6 937 £76 510
June, 1905.. 5.3,596 35,000 « 2 05 go*™?
Tune 1 one ll’ls' 35 - no ° 1»,081 10.L969
June, 1906.. 67,535 60,000 7 4 *s uifiOlfi
Dec., 1906.. 99,976 . 60,000 18 975 197017
Dec* 1 ’ 1907 7 S o°-r 9 ’ 492 »«£
yec., 1007.. 73,350 70,000 10 000 134 955
mc e ’iz- ii'Z ™ SfcS
June 1909" 4fi?Qr ,£ i ' 1 P',693 169,585
Dec’lfifw" Iv'qbo 40 ’ 00 ° 10 ’ 742 165,638
June’ 1910 " lo’fio? f P * 0f, ° 100.000 73,618
Dec’mo" w'497 ? P ’ P °° 91,076
June 1911 " ll’Hl 60,000 5,081 98,422
De " 1 1 dn ’° oo 5 -° B7 111.000
June 1912" 9P - 000 5 ' 301 143,3.33
SS 191*“ 217? S 5,684 159 788
A? 2 ' 776 170 ’ 000 5,809 201,755
he nd last US and th ? i S , a £ ng that the first shall
Dream ’and R? , la st shall be first. Pinnacles, Day
days of the fiirrll Hl ’ the Goliaths of the early
great Brol’pn TTiii are ea * anc * buried; even the
tons of orein h? P - r ° P ' co , nfesses to but 2,000,000
smelter of nfPor 6 mi ? e ’ and chases a crust now as a
14 are s °“ tput : Block 10 and Block
desnised slii ? bare living ; while the once-
which Svdnpv Central (Sulphide Corporation),
Corner stone L r"®? and ., sl ip, have become the
sort of n?LIu Br °- k c er i HIU « Prosperity. And what
that thp P ,vp l 4 may be judged bv the fact
detelonmeni flings of this co.’s miners on
shift and of °^ V as 4 half-year were 18s. per
course L? merS “i st i opes 16s - °W- The co., of
is £163 Rs9 ad a^ 00d . t, . me ’ t°°- Its paid capital
£290 000 dlv * dends tor the year were
loaler -, Co ' h ? s always been a bit of a
ores anrl early days it tried smelting its own
iust’ ns r?i de a m f ss °t ; since then, it has done
manage treat merit as it could possibly
nl J° t7lls day 14 basn t got a zinc-separation
aocnmnwi? err , l . lses -,, Years ago it sold most of its
accumidated tailings to the Zinc Corporation for
ntiirr ri H. Prop, directors said, the
ateraoin J’ that 4or two years past they had been
ibp ° V n r !i s ' pr °ht from their tailings; and
s . should be worth quite as much. For the
roitra? tailings the South has a better
ontract with the De Bavay Co.—it gets 3s. 6d. ;
n n ft j ou4 °J profits the De Bavay people take
bd’" an d all beyond that is whacked. Last half-
yeaLthf- C °\ ®'? t £76 - 501 for tailings. The Zinc
Corporation took 30,203 tons = £5789. That would
ntfaTfc £7 °' 7l ? J° come from Dp Bavay’s. The
quantity supplied to that co. was 152,630 tons; so,
apparently the C o. averaged 9s. 4d. per ton for the
_uir sent that wav. This would mean that the nro-
nt, divided between the two cos., was 18s. Bd. This
™, kes fbf figures of the B. H. Prop, look very
c<^’ rse the B. H. Prop, mav have made
much more than 14s. per ton last half-year. But, if


GOOD
Dividends
Interest
INVESTMENTS that embody all the elements
necessary to Soundness and Productiveness.
Unless we are assured, after the most searching
and thorough investigation, of the earning capac-
ity of every investment, business organisation and
enterprise brought to us —we do not handle it.
CONSULT US on any sound, healthy business
proposition you may have. We will afford you
the fullest information we have at our disposal.
OFP\PTMENTS: Promotion of Industries, Pub-
lic Companies,* Trust Estates, Security Depart-
Secretarial Dept., Real Estate, Local and
Foreign Agencies, etc.
Authorised Capital £500,000.
J. Earle Hermann Ltd.,
Sydney, Melbourne and London.
Head Office— Third Floor, Yaralla
Chambers, 109 Pitt St., Sydney.
London Office: 199 Winchester House,
Old Broad Street, E.C.
mm
a.<j
Established 34 Years.
THE Trustees, Executors
and Agency Co., ltd.,
412 Collins St., Melbourne.
The Company acts as
EXECUTOR,
ADMINISTRATOR,
TRUSTEE,
AGENT.
Estates Administered Exceed £25,000,000.
Please call or write for Pamphlet.
JAS. BORROWMAN, General Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Manager.
A great mistake, when erecting new works or re-
arranging old ones, is often made in constructing the
building and installing machinery ere looking round
for means of transport of the raw material, half-
manufactured and finished goods. Messrs. Adolf
Bleichert and Co., of London, have issued various
catalogues and leaflets, illustrating and describing a
few of the many transport systems and plants which
they have supplied, and which show the solution of
the transport question and the advantages of em-
ploying such appliances. W. and J. Lempriere,
Melbourne and Sydney, are the Australian representa-
tives, and would be pleased to hear from those in-
terested. A specially trained engineer is retained to
consult and advise.*
Mine managers and engineers contemplating Re-
inforced Concrete construction should write for par-
ticulars of the Indented Steel Bar, which gives the
greatest bond, and is the strongest and cheapest re-
inforcement on the market. Used by the N. S.
Wales and Queensland railways for bridges, by the
Sydney Water and Sewerage Board for elevated re-
servoirs, by the N. S. Wales Government Architect,
and by all the leading architects. Should guaranteed
designs be required for concrete structures, our ex-
pert will be pleased to furnish plans and descrip-
tions. Apply, Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.*
* * * *
In all smithing work high-class iron can be more
safely manipulated at varying temperatures than
steel or ordinary iron. It is for this reason that
Best Yorkshire Farnley Iron is preferred by engi-
neers, where toughness, great strength and close
grain are needed. Whatever the specification, Iron
of the Farnley type does not vary, but is simply the
best that can be produced from what is really
wrought iron. “Farnley” Bars of all sections sup-
plied from local stock bv Sole Agents of the Farnley
Iron Comp., Ltd. Bell's Asbestos, Ltd., 315 Kent
Street, Sydney.*
* * * *
From June to September the Bacchus Marsh Shire
Council (Vic.) crushed and spread 3000 cub. yards
of road metal, at an average cost of 2s. 6d. per cub.
yard, and the cost of the spalls per cub. yard aver-
aged 2s. 4d., making a total cost of 4s. lOd. per cub.
yard, broken and spread. Their last contract under
the handbreaking system amounted to 6s. Sd. per
cub. yard stacked on the roadside, and spreading Is. ;
total, 7s. 3d., as against 4s. lOd. — a saving of 2s. 5d.
per cub. yard. This result was obtained by using a
Bigelow 16in. x 9in. Patent Stonecrusher, and the
Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
manufacturers of these breakers.* [2
Extract from The Insurance Record, London, Sep-
tember 22, 1911: “To have written insurances for
£5,550,000 (Ordinary, Industrial and Accident) in
a year which was marked by the keenest competition
from beginning to end, is an achievement which
proves that the Colonial Mutual is a force to be
reckoned with in every sphere to which its influence
extends.”*
* * * *
Pioneer Woodpipe does not require caulking at
the joints, and takes less labor to instal than any
other class of pipe. The pipe can be tapped under
pressure by unskilled labor. The Australian Wood
Pipe Co., Ltd., Balmain, N.S.W., have just issued
a new catalogue.*
Working for 50 years and still going strong—not
man or beast, but an engine—a Wolf Steam Loco-
mobile, built in 1862, and still keeping up its
economy. One in Tasmania has been working for
over 20 years under strenuous conditions, with re-
markable economical results. See page 31. Haes and
Eggers, Limited, 163 Clarence Street, Sydney.*
Harringtons Ltd. are now in a position to quote
the lowest fees for all kinds of assay, analytical and
metallurgical work. Expert advice on ore treatment,
smelting, bullion, refining, etc. This firm have now
a most up-to-date and completely fitted laboratory,
directed by a first-class analyst from Johnson and
Sons, London, assayers to the Bank of England,
H.M. Mint, The Council of India, etc. Any work of
the above nature entrusted to this reliable firm of
photographic manufacturers will receive immediate
and prompt attention. For full particulars and
prices apply to Harringtons, Ltd., 380 George Street,
Sydney.*
Oil.— -Options over likely oil areas in any part of
Australia wanted by George D. Meudell, 36 Temple
Court, Collins Street, Melbourne.*
J. W. STYLES & SON, Machinery Auctioneer,
Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 361 Collins
Street (main entrance), Melbourne. (J. W. Styles,
24 years expert salesman.)*
* * * *
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 163 King Street, Syd-
ney.* [2
Mephan Ferguson Proprietary Limited, engineers,
etc., of Melbourne, having completed their contracts,
amounting to about £150,000, for the manufacture
and supply of Lockingbar steel pipes, for Brisbane
Water and Sewerage Board, are now removing all
machinery to Melbourne works to manufacture similar
pipes for the new O’Shanness.y water scheme for Mel-
bourne water supply, the cost of which will be over
£100,000. The work is to be completed within 12
months.*
Messrs. Babcock & Wilcox, Ltd., have received
the order for the supply of all the steam generating
plant and accessories for the electrification of the
Victorian Government Railways. The acceptance of
this firm’s tender was strongly recommended by Mr.
Merz, the English expert. The contract amounts to
£258,000.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
Assayers, Mine Managers and Prospectors write
to H. B. Silberberg and Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, and at Melbourne, for particulars concerning
mining requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s
disc pulverisers to 200 mesh ; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospector’s balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles; chemicals; etc.*
Patents. —Consult W.SIGMONT, Certificated Patent
Attorney (by exam.), Mech. and Elect. Engineer, 60
Castlereagh Street, Sydney. Information free.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire »
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
so, it leaves little or no profit from that eo.’s ore
and custom works. Some day somebody will inquire
whether there is so much genius in the control of
the B. H. Prop, as the public vaguely supposes
there is.
Now for another B. H. South comparison
Ore Treated. Divs paid.
June, 1907 .. .. 100,385 tons £BO,OOO
Dec., 1907 .. .. 110,715 70,000
June, 1908 . . . . 78,003 ~ 20,000
Dec., 1908 .. .. 111,967 „ Nil
June, 1909 . . . . 137,839 „ 40,000
Dec., 1909 . . . . 167,265 ~ 4u,000
June, 1910 . . . . 132,968 „ 20,000
Dec., 1910 .. .. 179,216 „ 60,000
June, 1911 .. .. 175,044 ~ 60,000
Dec., 1911 . . . . 181,790 „ 90,000
June, 1912 . . . . 165,532 ~ 120,000
Dec., 1912 . . . . 180,080 „ 170,000
1,720,804 tons £770,000
Thus in six years, a period which has included good
times and bad in the metal markets, the ore has
averaged just a shade under 9s. per ton in dividends.
This, of course, includes the profits from the old
tailings ; but as there are 1,005,195 tons left for the
Zinc Corporation to draw on, the revenue from this
source will last many years to come. Take, then,
9s. as a fair average. The quantity of ore in the
mine is estimated at 3,250,000 tons. At 9s. per
ton that is equal to £1,462,500. Add the surplus
liquid assets, £228,730; total, £1,691,230. There
are 200,000 shares =£B 9s. per share. If the co. does
as well as it has averaged in the past six years, and
if the reserves are up to the estimate, and if the
outlay on new plant in the future keeps to the aver-
age of the past six years, £8 9s. per share is what
it ought to pay; and further developments will be
so much bonus. ’ftiis paper naturally doesn’t know
what those developments will be. There is ore below
the bottom level; but the ore in the bottom level
isn’t as good as the average of the upper levels. And
there is ore, proved by diamond drills, west of the
present bodies; but quantities and values are not
known. And there are over 300,000 tons of rich
slimes on hand which some day may give a good
profit. The present co. was formed 19 years ago, and
the original co. was formed nine years before that.
“Since the inception of the c 0.,” says manager Wain-
wright, “the ore extracted has been 3.234.728 tons” ;
but whether that means the present co. or the orig-
inal co. isn’t clear. Anyhow, it doesn’t matter much.
What is striking is that the ore reserves, “on a con-
servative estimate,” exceed the quantity taken out.
It is a great mine. If one could be as sure of the
markets as one can be of the mine, everything in the
garden would be lovely.
Skinner’s, Ltd., issues an unsatisfactory
prospectus in Melbourne. Capital, £60,000, in £1
shares ; 25,000 to the vendor co., 25,000 to the pub-
lic, 10,000 in reserve. Besides 25,000 shares the
vendor co. takes £16,500 in cash. The concerns to
be taken over include the catering business formerly
carried on by the late Henry Skinner, with a couple
of small, or comparatively small, suburban businesses
(Holder’s and Ortner’s), and an option over another
catering business (Crichton’s), which can be had
for 1000 shares and £1550 cash. No statement of
liabilities and assets is furnished: and there is no
telling whether £5OOO or £40,000 is being paid for
goodwill. In any case, the bulk of the goodwill
consists of the value given to a business by a man
who is now dead. Further, nothing more than an
“estimate” of past profits is furnished. The busi-
ness may be all right. If it is the prospectus does it
a rank injustice. For it is one of the worst pros-
pectuses of which this paper has any knowledge.
Chairman James Munro let himself do a
little forecasting at the Queensland National Bank
meeting in Brisbane. “Without actually committing
the bank in any way, and unless something unfore-
seen occurs, we hope and believe we shall be in a
position to pay a dividend in about seven years. Of
course it is possible that business may improve, and
that the time may be slightly shortened ; and when
we do pay a dividend we hope to be able to start at
the rate of 10 p.c.” The Bulletin (23/l/’l3)
showed that, at last vear’s rate, it would take about
nine years to pay off the balance which it is neces-
sary to get rid of before the shareholders can handle
anything; so, as the directors probably put a bit by
for safety, and as things have been steadily improv-
ing, seven years may be accepted as somewhere near
it. The capital is £413,590 in £5 shares paid to
£3. The 60s. shares are now quoted at about 455.
Interest at 6 p.c. on 455. for seven years (com-
pounded) is worth 21s. If the estimate of seven
years is right, and if the bank will pay 10 p.c. for a
start, and if it will go on paying 10 p.c., present
market price will thus give the investor 6 p.c. for
seven years, and after that he will have a £3 share
carrying 10 p.c. for 665.
* * * *
Pulganbar Quicksilver and Copper
(N.S.W.) hasn’t lately been saying much about its
new treatment plant. Some months ago the weekly
whoops got louder and louder, and preparations were
made for a grand opening ceremony. The last re-
port merely whispered that the directors had visited
the mine and spent two days testing the general
working of the reducing plant. “Like all new instal-
lations, a few minor alterations were found neces-
sary,” so the ceremony was postponed. The few
minor alterations were estimated to take a month,
which suggests that there were a few major jobs to
be done as well. Anyway, something should shortlv
be heard. The question still is whether the mine is
really a mine or only a collection of museum speci-
mens —with the odds in favor of the latter. Plant
so far is reckoned to have cost something like
£25,000, which has come out of local pockets.
The Upper Clarence district, above Graf-
ton (N.S.W.), is unwinding a longer-winded sprint
than past records suggested would be the case. The
Garibaldi syndicate is now being turned into a com-
pany of £20,000, in 80,000 shares of ss. each. In
the excitement prevailing over the continued discov-
eries at the various mines, it is hard work to fasten
on to anvthing reliable. One report talks about
6000 oz. ore, there being so much gold that the mass,
when someone tried to dolly it, “simply squashed like
lead.” Such congestion heats the brain; but as a
cooler there is the recollection of the numerous and
unsuccessful revivals this district has suffered from.
The gold appears to be very spotty—good when
vou've got it, but horribly inclined to disappear.
The Solferino is an old field, worked by primitive
methods 40 vears ago. Something undoubtedly seems
to be left there, and it might be worth the while of
some company, with money to spend, to do a little
more than the customary pig-rooting and crude re-
covery. Without the money to spend, there can be
only one end.
lodide (N.S.W.) is completing the eree-
tion of a winder, and will soon start crosscutting
a t 190 ft., which should say something decisive;
and with engine power the shaft should go down to
300 ft. while the crosscut is lengthening. The high-
grade stuff at the. 92ft. level, though forgotten by the
market, is still in the mine, and the management
“ arranging the shipment of a lot that will bulk
±.13 a ton gross. There is a likelihood of the
present £lO shares being cut into tens.
J* H. Fawcett gives Baker’s Creek
(A.S.W.) a hope: he advises more development. But
the mine has been ransacked, and it is a toss-up
whether the co. would get the money back if it put
£12,500 into prospecting. Of course, nobody likes
to abandon a mine which has paid £272,500 in
divs. ; still, the fact has to be faced that every mine
has an end somewhere. Lucky the mine whose end is
marked plainly: it saves much lingering misery and
painful extraction of calls.
* * * *
Principal Westralian results for January:
Revenue. Profit. Value
„ x „ Tonnage. £ £ per ton.
Great Boulder . . 18,133 49,045 27,660 54/1
Ivanhoe .. .. 19,609 38,813 16,003 39/7
Kalgurli .. .. 10,560 21,016 9,055 39/9
Associated .. 10,895 13,197 1,373 24/3
Lake View and Star 18,059 20,579 3,406 22/9
Yuanmi . . . . 10,580 18,904 6,979 35/9
Golden Butterfly . . 1,425 1,401 19/8
Orova Links . . 10,230 11,524 1,100 22/5
Associated Northern
(Kalg.) .. 3,452* 7,758 45/-
Associated Northern
(Ora Banda) . . 9,600 12,780 7,020 26/8
South Kalgurli .. 9,820 11,100 1,511 22/8
Golden Ridge . . 2,909 5,118 1,750 35/2
Mountain Queen . . 3,232 4,422 1,303 27/4
Lake View and Oroya 9,720 f 1,727 464 3/7
Mararoa .. .. 2,612 4,890 37/5
Boulder No. 1 . . 1,249 t 600 68 9/7
Ida H 1,304 2,906 308 44/7
North Kalgurli . . 521 f 1,340 51/4
Menzies’ Consolidated 2,008 3,829 805 38/2
Commodore .. 1,100 1,510 333 27/5
Loss.
Boulder Perseverance 21,098 20,847 309 19/9
Golden Horseshoe .. 24,676 30,010 1,651 24/4
Great Fingall . . 5,926 9,674 7 32/5
Marvel Loch . . 1,718 1,704§ 294 18/4
Lady Miller . . 1,600 1,446 416 18/-
Hainault . . . . 3,942 4,149 172 21/-
Sons of Gwalia .. 13,501 21,373 2,012**31/8
Sand Queen . . 1,014 3,816 1,750 75/3
*Mostly tributors’ ore. (Accumulated residues.
JTributors’ ore. §lncludes £127 profit on public
crushing. **Expenditure included £7681 new plant.
* * * *
Bullfinch Prop. (W.A.) has started crush-
ing. In addition to large blocked-out bodies under-
ground, there are some thousands of tons of ore from
the original shoot stacked on the surface, besides a
few hundred tons from Gilbert’s and Kearney’s lodes.
The co., therefore, has something to go on with ;
but whether it will be able to maintain the returns it
talks about is doubted —very much doubted. Mean-
time an optimistic report by Fred Morgan has been
sent for presentation to shareholders in London next
month, and director Robinson, formerly of Mel-
bourne, is visiting the mine before going to the
meeting.
* * * *
Great Boulder (W.A.) is considering its
option on the locally-boomed Great Victoria. So
far, results have been very patchy, and latterly
assays have been poor and appearances bad. It is
quite correct to say that there is a lot of gold in the
mine, but between gold and gold in payable quan-
tities there is all the difference in the world.
* * * »
Picked up for next to nothing, the South
Edna May, at Westons (W.A.), has been floated in
Melbourne with a 50,000-share list. The venture is
purely speculative, and there is absolutely no justifi-
cation for the figure to which exaggeration has
carried the shares.
Associated Northern (W.A.) still reports
high and medium values in rising on the new shoot
at Ora Banda, and with the prospect of an early
dividend and the possibility of telluride in depth, in-
terest in the show is being sustained. By the way,
a curious official bloomer has come to light. On
January 9, the management coded £B2 in mistake
for 825., as the average value from 65ft. to 95ft.
along the east drive. The Board thought that £B2
was a bit tall, and cabled for confirmation prior to
publication. Curiously enough, the original mistake
was confirmed, and the amazing figure got into
print. Letters of explanation are now on their way
to head office. * * *
Pilbarra (W.A.) is looking very dull and
dreary. With tin standing at a high price, it was
fondly hoped that capital would come along and
boom the place. Some of its representatives did enter
an appearance, but went away again without doing
anything. As a result, Wodgina and other centres
have languished, and would have gone from bad to
worse had the Government not granted free crush-
ings of 20-ton parcels to prospectors so as to give
them a little money to go on with. A lot of cash
is needed to enable the tin deposits in this outland-
ish locality to be properly developed, but heavy
transport and other charges choke investors off.
* * *
Headed by one of the local papers, the
W.A. goldfields are petitioning the Government to
limit the number of Dagoes employed in the mining
and firewood industries to one in ten. At present
the percentage of Italians and Austrians working
underground is hard to arrive at because Macaroni
becomes Jones and Petropaulovitch is changed into
Smith in the time books; but it is declared that
the proportion is nearer one in five than one in ten.
As for the fuel industry, Dagoes and others bearing a
close resemblance to them practically run the show.
Golden Butterfly (W.A.) has recovered a
further £l4OO from its show near Kookvnie, and
stacked an additional 665 tons of slimes for future
treatment. The mill is now idle pending improve-
ments, and installation of extra residues plant, which
is expected to be running sometime in April.
At the Yuanmi the shoot is shortening
in depth, and has broken up badly. A new parallel
make of ore was struck a few months ago in the
bottom, but, so far, nothing has been opened up
to justify any whoop. # „
Mountain Queen (W.A.) has not yet ful-
filled directors’ expectations of £2OOO profit a month,
but is confident of doing so directly it gets an un-
interrupted month’s run. The surplus for January
amounted to £l3OO, and while there s life there s
hope. # » »
Another Vic. mine goes under—the Jubi-
lee, Scarsdale. The payable ore at the lower level
is exhausted; the manager can’t recommend further
levels from the present shaft (the next
one would have to go out 700 ft. to get
the ore) ; and the £25,000 estimate for
a new shaft staggers the Board; so the
mine has been closed down, and the directors pro-
pose a clearing-out sale. The mine’s records date
back to 1887. For 11 years a co-operative co.
worked it and gouged out £39,835 of gold, of
which about half was profit. Since ’9B, when the
present co. took it over, £502,958 worth of gold
has given £145,800 in divs. There was never a
half-year from 1900 onwards to 1911 that didn’t
give shareholders something; but from January,
1911, to the present only £9OO has come out of
the bag. Original shareholders can’t complain;
their £1 share has given them £4 Is. If the bot-
tom (No. 17) level had been up to the average, a new
shaft might have been faced ; but as it wasn’t, the
tired directors throw up the sponge with a final
curse at the high wage-costs ruling.
* * * *
Cassilis, Gippsland, wants three things to
set it on its feet: more gold, more stone, more
water. The average of the dirt crushed used to be
SOdwt. ; now it is lOdwt. The ore was a tough
mixture, and a pot of money was spent on plant,
much of which is on the scrap-heap. Finally came
the hydro-electric plant to reduce costs. This should
have been a blessing; but the co. never had the
pluck or the capital to build a second dam necessary
to furnish constant power. Just the want of this
has meant a shut-down since January, and the co.’s
big plant only handled about 4000 tons of ore for
the past half-year. This gave products of the gross
value of £4452. Costs were £4529. Nobody can
get fat on that. The load to be shouldered for the
current term includes a bank overdraft of £3825 to
begin with. So far as the co. has any hopes, they
lie in the stopes over the No. 7, the picking up of
the shoots in No. 8 level, and (later) in using the
plant for a new mine.
Poseidon Alluvial (Vic.) isn’t lacking
support just now, and there seems an off-chance of
the man who fluttered in at 30s. getting out on the
rise, providing he took the precaution to average.
The future depends on what gold will be swept up
from the deep gutter, whither operations are now
trending from the new shaft. What is being done is
to drain the remaining block of the Poseidon lead
from the south-west drive off the south-east, and
simultaneously to tap the deep channel. One of the
swells of the Mines Department wrote the Poseidon
lead down long ago as a duffer. Yet it lives, in
spite of that, on the reputation of prospects of 2oz.
dirt being got from the deep ground and a 440 z.
yield from the old gutter.
. Wandiligong, one of the most consistent
of Vic. dredging propositions, is near the end of its
tether. Another couple of years will about see its
ground exhausted. It has paid £2 18s. Bd. per share
in divs. ; and there is probably Bs. or thereabouts
still to come out of the holding.
* * * *
Mining annals of Forest Creek, one of the
earliest goldfields in Victoria, which was fabulously
rich in the ’so’s, close —temporarily, anyhow—with
the burial of the Francis Ormond. The old show has
been a consistent call-maker for a long while past.
* * * *
Oaks Amalgamated (Q.) has just under-
gone some changes, and F. Laby becomes general
manager. He has had Victorian experience, and is
expected to reduce costs. There is no great quantity
of good ore showing in the mine, and for the present
he reckons he will be doing very well to keep five
stamps going on mine ore, leaving five free for out-
side parcels. *
Hampden (Q.) strikes what may be a
large body of 13 p.c. pyritic ore at 412 ft. But
Hampden 'wants the confidence of the market, and
the purchase of the Macgregor at a figure much
above the price paid by the inside men for most of
this derelict’s scrip made that confidence even thin-
ner. Also the co.’s scheme of giving people long
options on big parcels of reserve shares is rotten, its
most obvious result being the creation pf a covered
“bear” by the people who hold the option.
* * * *
Engineer Newman’s report to the direc-
tors of the Kulamadau (Woodlark Island) is a
plain-spoken testimony to the rottenness of past
management. No attempt has been made to segregate
costs, so waste has been rampant. The ground is
soft and easy to work, vet the output doesn’t reach
a ton per man per shift. The total mine cost, New-
man says, ought to be cut down from 15s. Bd. to
9s. or under. No attempt has been made to get a
metallurgical balance by assaying mill heads and
tails and Wilfley table products, with the result
that the management is in darkness on that most
important point—the degree of fine grinding re-
quired. Stores have had the habit of being taken
out without orders being put through the books.
Timber costs 50 p.c. more than it should. These
and other things show what St burden the mine has
had to carry, and yet it has managed to struggle
along somehow. The other side of Newman’s picture
is painted a brilliant chestnut. The lodes are classed
among the “deposits in tertiary andesites,” like those
at Waihi. There doesn’t appear to be much evidence
of regular shoots of ore, the richness of the lode de-
pending apparently upon the presence of galena-
blende-caleite veins. After the mine has had the
knocking into shape urgently needed, and the surface
equipment has been largely remodelled, at a cost of
about £20,000, some good things ought to be in
store. An efficient plant to treat 200 tons of ore
per day by amalgamation, fine grinding and cyanid-
ing, is estimated to give a profit of 15s. per ton of
ore. Total costs would be 255., and 100,000 tons of
40s. ore are said to be a not at all extravagant esti-
mate of reserves. Anyway, 50,000 tons of half-
ounce ore is declared to be an absolutely safe figure.
Newman, who makes this plain-spoken report, was
one of Capt. Richard’s young men at Mount Morgan.
When Richard was asked to go to Waihi to report
on that tottering proposition, he chose Newman as
his assistant, no doubt to guide him past the geologi-
cal pitfalls, because the ex-chief of Mount Morgan is
no geologist. Before that he was at Broken Hill,
working both underground and in the mills;; and
before that again he had a particularly brilliant
course in Sydney Uni. Engineering School.
Mount Elliott has 150.000 shares of £5,
and looks as if it would pay 10s. per quarter for two
years or so. France holds most of the scrip, having
been encouraged thereto by a brassy circular, headed
“Polvtechnique des Mines D’Or,” which tipped these
shares for “ £2O and £2s”—on the alleged state-
ment of General-manager Corbould that the mine can
pav £2 a vear for “some years.” With people
solidly holding such stock for such figures, the pur-
chase of 500 or 1000 shares hardens them to adam-
ant. There is no scrip in Australia to speak of, and
Sydney “bears” have had to bid up to get any that
had to be delivered quickly. This is the sort of
thing that booms a market and produces utterly fic-
titious values. # * .
The Minnie Moxham. on the old Hodgkin-
son field (Q.), is to be given another chance; and
it is worth it. The trouble is that these Northern
chaps will open their mouths so wide. The new co.
is in 34.000 issued shares of ss. each. The pro-
moters collar 14,000 fully paids and £3OOO in cash.
Thus they take over 40 p.c. of the shares and 60 p.c.
of the money ; and the co. pays flotation exes. Be-
sides the mine (which, of course, isn t a proved
thing, though a decent 3ft. reef is showing at the
bottom of an old deepened shaft), all that_the pro-
moters have to sell is a small winding plant, worth
with the rest of the surface outfit £5OO at most.
With the promoters’ big cut out °* the f as J t J? ere
won’t be enough left to provide a battery, if develop-
ments warrant it; vet the thing can never pay with-
out a batterv. The North growls that, the South
doesn't give iis mining a hand. Greedy flotations
like this explain why it doesn #
Coronet Hill Development Co. looks a
reasonable gambling proposition. The big iron out-
crop to be exploited (there are four leases of 80 acres
each) is two miles in length, at Mount Davis, North-
ern Territory. Five years ago, S.A. Government Geo-
logist Brown summed it up as a strong formation, worth
prospecting ; and recently Aloysius Kelly, brother of
Bowes, declared himself “more impressed by the
Coronet mine than by any other formation 1 have
seen since the Broken Hill days.” A shaft sunk to
100ft. on one of the leases cut 7ft. of oxide of copper,
which appears to be going down with the shaft. A
bulk assay gave copper 15 p.c., silver 22oz. and ldwt.
of gold to the ton. There may be a lot in it. The
Development Co. proposes £20,000 capital in 2000
shares —500 to be held in reserve, and 1000 to go to
owners, promoters and underwriters.


Royal
Warrant
To H.M.
Kinfi
George V
CHAMPAGNE
MSI
CMAMPAGNt
uiarksHei<isie<fc
Heims
The New Hairdressing.
The new hairdressing, which reverts to the
early Victorian modes, requires careful adap-
tation to the different styles of beauty, and
arrangement by a skilled artist is necessary.
THE LADIES’ HAIRDRESSING ROOMS
at FARMER’S
are attended by an experienced staff, and
are supervised by experts who thoroughly
understand the correct arrangement of these
new modes.
The handsomely furnished rooms are
equipped with all modern appliances, and
include sections devoted to Hairdressing,
Hairworking, Shampooing, Scalp and Face
Massage, Manicuring, Chiropody, etc.
Hairdressing appointments for social func-
tions made by ’phone or letter.
All ’phone numbers, now, Citv 65, 66, 70,
72. Will patrons please note?
I ENTRANCE FROM NEW MILLINERY SALON : |
THIRD FLOOR, PITT STREET
FARMER’S —SYDNEY
BUCHANAN’S
Black. (Q. White
n
A GRAND SPIRIT
Black & White ” is indeea a “ grand spirit.”
Matured for years in Scotland before shipment.
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, February 24, 1913.
My Dear Arini.—
Humors of divorce are buzzing all around
us like mosquitoes. The names connected
with the various unhitchings belong to well-
known folk. Of course they can’t be men-
tioned except verbally and in the absence
of witnesses, but later oh there will be some
thrilling revelations. Husbands and wives
are leaving their own partners and setting
to corners in a kind of matrimonial kitchen
lancers. The _ D’Arcy Osbornes have “got
their absolute.” People are remembering
the Mrs. D’Arcy Osborne was the pretty
Dorothy Mair, who was once engaged to poor
Leslie Gaden—-the man who died after a
reckless fight with a tramear some time last
year.
Then there were further developments.
Everybody was wildly interested in news
that Mr. Theo Marks was on the eve of
marrying Mrs. D’Arcy Osborne when last
mail left London, where the bridegroom has
been staying for some little time. His
family has a knack of making marriages
or a more or less sensational character,
simply because as a family the Marks are
more than common tall' and attractive,
lheo has been a beauty man about town
tor years, and many hearts have beat for
him in vain. Alfred Marks, whom Sydney
knew as an extremely handsome vouth, mar-
ried a really beautiful Gaiety girl, Claire
Leighton. The sisters of these brothers are
blessed with good looks. People used fairly
to mob Irene Marks (Mrs. Yivers) when
she appeared at races or garden parties, so
well did she fit the hackneyed lines about
the daughter of the gods, divinely tall and
most divinely fair.
Mr. Theo Marks and his bride, it was re-
reported, were to spend their honeymoon at
Monte Carlo. Unless all their plans have
been altered, they are there now. I am
told by those who have observed Mr.
Theo at his. favorite pastime, he is one of the
! 3eS il~C 1 i nean^n g co °l es t and most imper-
turbably good-humored— gamesters that this
vast country possesses. He loses £5OO with
the same bland and courteous cheerfulness
that he displays upon winning 2s. 6d. The
place where rouge wins sometimes and Wane
sometimes, but the Blanc family always
should suit him down to the ground.
• T , h ,- e en ? a sement is announced of Mr. Ber-
tie Morris, the fortunate prey being a South
African maiden. For years and years no
local tea-fight has been really complete with-
out this indefatigable social warrior; and
, a . laek - the struggle is over, the lance
ot fashion is couched or laid to rest or burst
or . what not, the social revolver, bowie
knives, etc., are returned to the armory, and
the hatchet is interred. One of the saddest
features of matrimony is its habit of wrest-
ing our Galahads from us. Mr. Morris is
secretary to Mr. W. A. Holman, the Labor
Attorney-General who dragged Government
House from the clutches of Lord Denman,
and in so doing, according to Mr. Henley,
M.L.A., dealt a stunning blow at the unitv
of Empire. But that Mr. Morris, despite
his associations, is personally a Socialist
and an Empire-burster I am not prepared
to say.
The wedding of Miss Vida Mills and Mr.
•Tim Burns has been fixed for the 27th of
next month.
c. rh ?Cameron-Lindeman wedding at
Strathneld was a large and festive affair,
lhe bride is the eldest daughter of Mr. and
™' C. F. Lindeman, of Bromhall, Strath-
field. The bridegroom, Mr. Roderick M.
Cameron, hails from New York. It was a yel-
low wedding, and the very latest novelty was
introduced by the bride, who had color show-
ing up the pattern of her lace bodice and
sleeves, the beautifully dainty point de gaze
being backed with pink ninon. The brides-
maids, Misses Lilian Hoare, Nita Linde-
man, Kate Campbell and May Moses, wore
the fashionable tint of yellow with excellent
effect, and the contrast of their brown vel-
vet hats made good. Two child train
bearers, Marjorie Lindeman and Marion
I riend, had the same color scheme in frocks
and muffs. It was an autumn wedding,
and looked most artistic. The elect of
Strathfield showed up at the reception, Mrs.
Lindeman wearing art blue velvet, finished
with gold embroidery, and a hat with the
pluckings of a large ostrich adorning it.
Messrs. Colin Caird, Norman Dangar and
R. Lindeman were groomsmen. It’s about
up 0 p CaLd to figure as principal at
an affair of this kind himself. He has been
almost but not quite” at multitudes of
fashionable fixing-ups. As a best man there
is no point of the game in which he needs
coaching.
Dr. and Mrs. Herbert Marks are off to
England on the first Orient liner that is
willing and able to supply them with a suffi-
ciency of cabins. They mean to be awav
about a year.
Mrs. Edwin Ryrie, Sydney’s Dresden-
China shepherdess beauty, who has iust
come back from her travels, had a peculiar
though very sincere, compliment paid to the
charming childishness of her little girl That
maiden so strongly impressed a dusky poten-
tate met en route that he wished to buy the'
girlie, and offered a lac of rupees for her.
lie may not have been a potentate, but at
aay he was dusky, and as a story of
this kind is never told without it contains
a dusky potentate and a lac (not lack) of
rupees, it bears on its face the stamp of
verity. Since her return, Mrs. Ryrie is living
the quiet life, goes nowhere and sees nobody.
Cranbrook is full of packing cases and
gripsacks. Our departing Governor and
family came down from Sutton Forest last
week, after gladdening the hearts of Mr.
and Mrs. Mackenzie, of Nowra, with a visit
per motor, and now are actively preoaring
for the getaway. The newcomers, Sir Ger-
ald and Lady Edeline Strickland, are get-
ting busy already. The useful Victor Hood,
as advance agent, has got out cards for the
initial garden party on March 27. Sir Ger-
ald and his fair-haired missus are no stran-
gers, and what little we have seen of them
up to now we have liked. He is a man with
a past to live up to, as the only dancing
Viceroy Australia has yet seen. It is a
treat to watch him at a ball. He doesn’t
dance as if it hurt him, as most Govs. do.
Then lie has a power of language. At a
dinner party, he never (so those who have
been there tell me) allows his guests to feel
silence _ falling with a dull sickening thud,
but chips in and talks for all he is Avorth.
And anyone who has heard the thud of a
r;atly big silence will appreciate the value
of that.
Lady Edeline Strickland wears her first
name all the time, and you must call her
Lady “Eedlin” (unless of course vou are of
such humble rank that she wouldn’t have
you call her anything). The reason why
her baptismal appellation doesn’t come off
is because, as the daughter of an Earl (de
la Warr) she is of higher rank than her
husband, who is merely a bart., and doesn’t
count as a nobleman at all.
All our social magnates are this season’s
goods. With absolutely no left-over, cold
storage bigwigs in Society’s larder, we ought
to have a merry time next month when
things begin to make up. The Town Hall
people are new. Mrs. Cocks, though she has
not yet shown us her social side, looks
smart, and festive enough for anything.
Then Government House has a new ruler.
There is no Drake, and no naval supremacy
to worship from afar, except our very
own Australian made-for-local-consumption
brand. So things ought to be shaken up
considerably, until the rattle thereof resounds
from Cape York to the Leeuwin.
Several Queensland visitors are in our
city at present, but most of them are merely
birds of passage on the wing to Hobart.
Mrs. H. _ Midson is making a short stay
here. Miss Cockburn and Miss D. Ander-
son, of Brisbane, were among the guests at
a tea party given by Mrs. Midson last week.
Wise leaves > at short notice,
on the Marmora for London, where he will
engage in the Vend Appeal struggle. Sir
Robert Finlay, who is to lead for the
Crown, personally requested the Australian
Government to retain the Sydney K.C. —the
man who Avasn’t offered a seat on the High
Court bench, because, presumably, the place
was wanted for Piddington.
Mr. and Mrs. Ernest Watt have taken
Lady Tree’s house in Sussex.
. Curnow, son of the late editor of
the S.M.H., went to London last week to
join the staff of the Times.
Such a funny state of things has cropped
up in connection with Dr. Mary’s Booth’s
championship of Dr. Gertrude Halley. After
Dr. Mary had worked up press and personal
indignation about the way in which Dr.
Gertrude had been turned down for the post
of School Medical Officer, a meek and mild
little par appeared in one of the dailies to
the effect that Dr. Halley was all right,
thank you, and didn’t need any defence put
up on her account, as she was perfectly well
satisfied with the decision of the Depart-
ment which appointed a mere man to the
job. A vigorously conducted meeting of pro-
test was engineered by Mrs. Bogue Huffman
and Dr. Booth at the Queen Victoria Club.
In a few well-chosen words they dealt with
Dr. Halley’s “case,” just at the time when
that lady was protesting her hardest that
she had no case for any other ladies to utter
any well-chosen words about. Impartial on-
lookers at ,the queer “impasse” consider that
Dr. Mary Booth is absolutely and entirely
right in her attitude of protest agin the
ways of officialdom; while Dr. Halley, by
upholding that fetich of her profession,
medical etiquette, can never put herself in
the wrong. That both Doctors Booth and
Halley may come out on top is the fervent
Avish of all admirers. History repeats it-
self. This little breeze is just like what
happened when Stanley, the explorer, went
to find Emin Pasha. After that errant Aus-
trian had been discovered in Africa and
brought home in triumph, it came out that
Emin had never wanted to be found at all,
and as soon as he decently could, he dis-
appeared from civilisation and lost himself
again with the greatest promptitude and
despatch.
(i Cady Cullen presided at a meeting of the
. After Care” Association last Thursday look-
ing very fit after her return from Tasmania,
where, with the Chief Justice, she spent
her summer holiday. The After Care Asso-
ciation deals with patients who may need
attention after leaving the hospitals for the
insane, and in a quiet way it does kind sym-
pathetic work in preventing relapse. It
can’t do very much, as it has very little
money.
My forgetful sex again! A Maoriland
correspondent who recently went round the
Islands on the Atua met on the voyage a
dear old Scotch lady, exceptionally agile and
energetic for her 60 years. “As we neared
Samoa,’* says my correspondent, “she in-
quired if I meant to visit the Stevenson
monument, and confided that friends in
Scotland had entrusted her with a bunch of
dried heather to place on the tomb. When
the mountain on which R.L.S. lies came in
view the enthusiasm of most intending
climbers waned ; but the old lady and I de-
termined to try it. We drove as far as we
could, and then toiled with a couple of
natives up the awful incline, and arrived
gasping and exhausted at the top. ‘Now,’
said I, after a short rest, ‘we’ve no time to
lose. Let’s have the ceremony right away.’
My old lady had a wild scrimmage in her
handbag. ‘Dear, dear,’ she wailed, ‘if I
haven’t forgotten to bring the heather!’ But
you’ll please not mention it in Edinburgh.”
In a week absolutely devoid otherwise of
notable events, and as bare of social news
as a comet, the Jap warships left last
Thursday. In the sere and yellow leaf of
their visit they gave an extremely well-done
party. It has by now receded into that un-
comfortable middle distance of happenings
which makes it too old for news and too re-
cent for history, but it is worth a par. all
the same. The flagship Azuma was in-
spected with great curiosity by guests who
wished to see what it looked like after having
been sunk and fished up again from the bot-
tom of Port Arthur. But it was a battle-
ship at play as Sydney folk saw it at the
party, for all the grim guns were wreathed
in flowers. Mrs. Jarley presided as goddess
of the scene, in tableaux representing the
four seasons in symbolical style. Alleged
historical personages, doing various stunts,
were the attractions of the decks. No war-
like shows were presented. The star tab-
leau was excessively peaceful, showing a
gentleman of a literary turn inditing a
poem in a very prettily-done grove of paper
cherry blossom. The legend above described
him as a royal poet (duly qualified to wear
two swords) writing his world-famous war
ballad as described above. The .Taps are
adepts in making curly chrysanthemums out
of colored paper, miniature gardens out of
sand and greenery, smoking microscopic to-
bacco pipes and generally behaving like art-
adoring innocents. After an hour spent
amid this kind of thing, also watching a
friendly bout at wrestling and some harm-
less sword play between smiling opponents,
it needs a violent wrench of one’s mental
capacity to remember that these are the re-
creations of some of the grimmest and
fiercest little war-dogs on our planet.
It was so hot at the party that, going
down the ladders to the lower deck to
have to drink, the men looked
like Julius Knight descending to in-
fernal tortures through the circular
trap-door in “The Darling of the
Gods.” The “torture” was delightfully
cool. with a sparkle and plenty of ice
in it, so it was worth going for. Ad-
miral Tochinai and most of his officers speak
English, and there was little difficulty in
making some kind of small talk even with
the youngest middy on board, as the Jap
youths love the opportunity of improving
their English and hasten to converse. Sur-
geon Ishiwa was much liked by all the jnen
who met him here. He is fleet surgeon, and
a very high and mighty officer. At Jeno-
lan, to a man who asked him, “You likee
this, you think welly ni’?” he replied. “Sir,
I have seen most of the finest scenery in the
world, but your Blue Mountains surpass
them all. They are stupendous.” His
English was all right, and his capacity for
pulling the leg of his acquaintance was
really remarkable. Another interesting per-
son was Mr. Yasugi Nobutani. of the Azu-
ma. He belongs to a noble Jap family, one
of whom —Hirose is the family name—per-
formed a notable life-saving feat in the re-
cent war. He lost his own life, and was
described (in English) as “a faithful, brave
and nice warrior, who died in his 23 years
old.”
The conversion of our tallest mountain
to Catholicism was the reason of the week-
end trip of many citizens of the Old Faith.
On Friday the Cooma train was filled with
pilgrims who went to see Archbishop Kelly
hold mass on the summit of Kosciusko. The
hotel finds itself full, for summer among the
heights is becoming popular with pleasure-
loving folk, and the Catholic pilgrimage
was such a novelty that it attracted many,
just out of curiosity.
If any proof were needed to prove that
iV-Liss xvose bcott was wrong in tier estimate
of man’s appreciation of what’s what at a
girls swimming shivoo, the attendance at
the Domain baths on Saturday would have
supplied an effective reply. In Fanny Dur-
ack we have a draw—a real strong box-
office draw. When Fanny was a flapper and
swam years ago in girlish contests at Lav-
ender Bay baths and other wet play places
several persons of great foresight (I must
praise them highly, for I was one) used to
say , t i lat , in he L we Possessed a world’*
cord breaker Now, the above prophet* J 6 '
saying with band accompaniments <«t * a F e
you so.” Fanny swam splendidly on S a f? d
day. She has a swift,
which is most refreshing in these days w£ e
pose and affectation are so much to the r n
Yes, Fanny is a great success, and Svd„
is looking towards her. There ire AT ney
too. The world's woman champfon
merely a freak. The swimming girl nt
son we, as a community, do ourselves eT
tremely proud over. ex '
Who is the greatest man who ever li VPf o
The interesting question cropped un hv •
dent at Mrs. Kettlewell’s farewell p at h^ C !;
on Sunday night, when everybody was m 6
excited over the claims of one favSt?° 8t
another for the honored position rvla or
tor Bradley, who was among those preset
finaUy sent Richard Wagner into first pi? ’
with Julius (Csesar not Knight) a
second. Nobody said a word about SpeX
Wilhs, so it was a bit inconclusive \r!
Ivettlewell and her daughter Rhoda ‘are
for a jaunt by the Otway on Wednesday
There was a party at the Women’s Club
Friday to say au revoir but not good-hve
and to hand over a grey suhde writing-ca!
and silver-handled umbrella as parting sift.
Miss Walker read Mrs. Kettlewell’s hit
known verses, ‘‘Twenty Gallons of Sleep”
and Miss Ida Moran recited quite charm
mgly, but there was no musical trimming
The club is located at Stanwell House on
top of the Commonwealth Savings Bank
and a stern official rightly decided that the
sounds of music might disturb the clerks at
their counting, and make them add un the
year of our Lord with the pounds sterling.
Mr. Govers, of the Immigration Depart-
ment. has been to Melbourne, where he met
the British Commissioners of the Dominions
Royal Commission. They are going on to
Maoriland, and will be here on 11th April
Rider Haggard is the showman of the
group, and he is always put on to speak a
piece, as people ask for him, though bv
rights Sir Edgar Vincent is the spokesman
and captain of the team. He has a crowded
past career, having done various kinds of
official stunts of an elevated character. Sir
Edgar, who is 54 and was formerly a lieu-
tenant in the Coldstream Guards, married
a top-notch London beauty, Lady Helen
Duncombe.
Having not long returned from England
Mr. Govers has some suffragette stories. He
says that he visited Winchester Gaol, where
militants had been incarcerated, and the
peculiar feature of their imprisonment was
that the officials never had to resort to for-
cible feeding to break a hunger strike,
whereas in Holloway and other places that
method of administering nourishment is con-
tinually practised. At Winchester they
broke the strike much more humanely, by
simply going on with the routine of placing
each meal in its turn within the prisoner’s
reach, then without word spoken the ward-
ress would take the untasted meal of the
hunger striker away. Then the next meal
would be brought in and taken away, and
so on day after day. Four days of this re-
duced the strikers to reason. When they be-
came ravenous for food, they just couldn’t
resist eating. Almost by instinct they
reached out for their tucker, and the strike
was broken.
Miss Alice. Currie, whose lisrht soprano
has been trained to a certain distance in
altitude at the Garcia School, gave a concert
on Thursday night at the Concordia Hall to
show cause why she should go to Europe to
have the altitude moved up a note or two
higher. Assisting were Miss Rubie Stella
Henry and Mr. Reg Gooud. with songs, and
Mr. Henri Staell at the violin. Mr. Staell.
by the way, lives in a humpy by the surf
all these, hot. months, and only just towels
himself in time to catch the Manly boat
when with great reluctance he has to come
to the city. Geo. S. Holburn ran this con-
cert.
Mrs. T. H. Kelly, in black velvet, looked
a very aristocratic Mrs. Desmond to J. C.
Williamson’s Kerry at the Scott Fund
matinde on Saturday. The soft darkness of
the velvet showed up the whiteness of her
hands, which, was all-to the good of her part.
This generation was surprised to see J.C.W.
as a mummer. “Fancy, he acts, too,” was
their exclamation. “What a clever man he
is.” The “Jimmy Williamson” of Stofel
and Kerry is a person of the dim and dis-
tant past. The nigger minstrel show
brought forward jokes new and old —especi-
ally old. Blanche Browne, Palotta and Co.
were quite unrecognisable under their lamp
black. The best joke bandied about was:
“Why did the tin whistle?” “Because Fred
Bluett” (blew it). “Tell me why Fred
Bluett?” “Because Jack Cannot.” Mrs.
Brough met. with a rousing reception as an
auctioneer introduced by G. S. Titheradge.
The autographed tray cloths went well. Sold
by members of the profesh during the inter-
vals, they had the signatures in ink of stars
of various magnitude, and these can be done
at leisure in Mount Mellick stitch by adorers.
Nellie Stewart and her daughter are
coming back bv the Otranto.
Yours till next week,
CLEO.


H
VICE-REGAL
Ĥ
BY APPOINTMENT
JEWELLER.®
DRESSING CASES.
m
dj
Large
Assortment
Always
Stocked.
Inquiries
Invited.
Lady’s Solid Leather Travelling Bag, 20 inches long, fitted with 4 Silver Brushes,
Silver Button Hook, Silver Shoe Lift, Silver Mounted Comb, 5 Silver-Mounted
Bottles, Folding Mirror, Jewel Case, Blotting Pad and Cutlery Board, £IQ.
Hardy Brothers, Limited,
VICE-REGAL JEWELLERS,
13 Hunter St., Sydney; 118 Queen St., Brisbane.
AND AT LONDON.
N.S.W. Bookstall Series.
1,000,000 COPIES SOLD OF THE POPULAR
“BOOKSTALL” SERIES of AUSTRALIAN NOVELS
Written, Illustrated and Printed in Australia.
Price One Shilling Each ; Post Free 1/1.
JUST
PUBLISHED.
“BILL’S IDEES,”
By A. G. STEPHENS.
Fully Illustrated. PRICE 1 /-; POST FREE, 1/1.
In “BILL’S IDEES” the N.S.W. Bookstall Co., Ltd., has the pleasure of introducing Mr.
A. G. Stephens as a new Australian humorist. Mr. Stephens’s reputation as the doyen of
Australasian critics is widespread, and he has several books of prose and verse to his credit.
“Bill’s Idees” is the first book in which he has given his natural humor free play-—as we venture
to think, with the happiest results.
Many years ago the original of. “Bill” was a larrikin in Sydney—the leader of a “push.” He
reformed himself, and for a long time has been a highly-respected citizen ; as he says, improving
his mind, cultivating his good instincts, and trying to live up to his ideal. Bill’s ideal is “a
quiet bloke with a quiet wife and a quiet dog with a quiet name.” Bill had had to struggle to
reach his ideal, because be had a lot of bad instincts to get rid of, and because he never had much
chance in the way of education. Still, with the help of his favorite author, Vere Foster, he is
getting along nicely.
Bill’s story is told in his own words. He is interesting when he looks back upon his
unregenerate past, and is no less interesting when he contemplates his reformed present. Hard
life has taught him a philosophy of his own, worth considering. His native humor is of the kind
called “pawky,” and he .enjoys a joke against himself. Bill isn’t a fool and he isn’t a clown;
perhaps his readers will seldom laugh right out. But they will get a few broad grins and a
whole heap of chuckles.
Bill’s “missus” is several chapters to herself.
Steele Rudd’s Great Australian Books
In Cheap Editions. Price Is. each. Post Free Is. Id.
All the Celebrated Illustrations have been retained, as these New Cheap Editions are printed from
the Original Stereos.
Sandy’s Selection.
Back at Our Selection.
From Selection to City.
On Our Selection.
Our New Selection.
The Dashwoods.
The Poor Parson.
Duncan McClure.
For Life.
Dad in Politics.
Stocking Our Selection.
On an Australian Farm.
STEELE RUDD’S
Latest—
The Book of Dan ”
(Author of “ On Our
Selection,” etc. etc.)
Profusely Illustrated by Lionel Lindsay. Price Is. Post Free Is. Id.
ARE NOW OBTAINABLE FROM
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.,
476 George Street, Sydney; and all Booksellers.
You Know Dickens,
But DO You Know Schumann?
'' •
H
y
. •
:.uj-
■ n:
mmm
mm
mmWi-r
m
mmm
m
THE creator of “Little Hell” you surely know and love. His books have
furnished hour after hour of amusement. David Copperfield and
Oliver Twist, Jenny Wren and Agnes Wakefield —all of his characters
are almost as living friends to you.
Suppose by an accident of environment you had never enjoyed
Dickens —that his works had no meaning: for you—that you
had never read them. And, further, suppose that not only
Dickens, hut Shakspeare, Milton, Thackeray, Irving and all
literature were forbidden you. The world would be dull
indeed.
Yet, do you know Eobert Schumann—as great in music as Dickens in
literature? Dickens wrote “Nicholas Nickelby,” but Schumann composed
“Carnaval.” “A Christmas Carol” is no greater or more appealing than
“Traumerei.” Who can listen to “The Two Grenadiers’' without a thrill
of exultation? And Schumann is but one of a thousand famous composers.
Don’t imagine that to revel in music you must first study.
You can play to-day if you will only say “I will.” You can
play the
m
m
m
m
>.V
;.*spsi
U
STILCR. PIANOLA PIANO
Mechanical? NO! Its effects are no more mechanical than
those of a first-class pianist. The notes are correct—is that a
fault? Paderewski doesn’t think so. Nor does any artist who
strives to get that quality into his own playing.
The expression, the feeling, the interpretation—the gentle
will hive all the true musical atmosphere and feeling it is
possible to have.
Do you realise that in not knowing music intimately you are denying your-
self as great an education and culture as all literature combined—denying
yourself as keen a pleasure ?
Wouldn’t it be worth your while to investigate this instru-
ment? Wouldn’t it seem strange that you, who never played
a Piano, could do so at once? Let us send you a Catalogue
of the Steck Pianola Piano, W T e will send it free if you will
write and ask us for Catalogue R.
hm *>•»
THE PIANOLA COMPANY,
252 cowns street, Melbournei 357 George Street (next David Jones Ltd.), Sydney.
B and 436-%38' London, Berlin, Neve York, etc.
HJ«I rHI OILMAN (M»l


The Gift Acceptable.
Men’s Fitted Dressing Cases
AT FARMER’S.
Farmer’s Fitted Dressing Cases are of that
handsome and practical combination which apoeals
to every man.
The case pictured hangs when in use, and when
packed folds into a small compass, measuring
x 4in. x 3iin. deep.
It is made of solid leather, and is fitted with
mirror, pair of military brushes, comb, razor, strop,
shaving brush and soap bottle complete.
Price = 21 j=
WE PAY CARRIAGE ON THESE GOODS TO
ANY PART OF AUSTRALIA.
FARMER’S, Sydney
Pitt, Market and George Streets.
ft
The
Oriental
Hotel,
MELBOURNE.
AUSTRALIA’S MODERN HOTEL.
Now open for the reception of Quests.
Handsome light and airy rooms; every
possible convenience.
Any size suite of compartments.
Tariff from IS/- per day.
Q. LOOSEN, General Manager.
FOR THE
RAPID RELIEF OF
Insomnia, Indigestion,
Weak Nerves, Poor
Appetite, Sluggish
Liver, Sick Headache,
Use
CLEMENTS TONIC
ALL CHEMISTS and STORES
SELL IT EVERYWHERE.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, February 24, 1913.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Rider Haggard bears a remarkable like-
ness to Henry Wrixon—or the Henry of 10
years ago. During the few days the Trade
Commissioners spent in Melbourne the
famous romancer seemed to walk in an atmo-
sphere of originality. He says carefully
audacious things that are calculated to shat-
ter the placid calm of any conventional as-
semblage. At the Parliament House lunch-
eon, he sat opposite Alex. Peacock. The
famous Peacock laugh fascinated Haggard,
who seemed to deliberately provoke fresh
cackles with well-directed sallies. Haggard
is alarmingly anxious to pose as an agricul-
turist. Farming and the cult of the Cow
have long been his hobbies. “I’ve lived in
a cornsack for seven years,” was one of his
confessions.
i A hurriedly arranged dinner at Federal
Government ilouse on the evening of landing
was one of the chief diversions of the Trade
Commissioners. It turned out to be a highly
entertaining function. The arrivals were
well-stocked with fresh impressions, and had
heaps to say. A few people were gathered
together to meet them, and there were not
more than 60-diners at table. Gold plate
and crimson rose-bushes in gold basket tubs
made the board groan expensively. The
Denman lady wore white, and blazed with
rubies and diamonds. Only two of the Com-
missioners had their wives with them. Mrs.
Tetlow, one of the fortunate ladies, is quiet
and shy, and much addicted to the protect-
ing arm of her husband. She wore a sub-
dued air and a soft white gown. Mrs. Tom
Garnett, the other guest, looked handsome in
a black and white gown. JJaugnter ivirs.
Geoffrey Syme also wore black and white—
but it was a more flimsy frock in which white
preponderated. Mrs. Anderson, from Syd-
ney, had two pretty daughters with her. Airs.
George Chirnside was resplendent in blue
brocade shot with silver and a fender of
diamonds. (Note. —The fender wasn’t in-
volved in the shooting; it was on her head.)
Mrs. Chapman, another Sydney visitor, was
surrounded by a lovely black lace dress. In
the drawing-room the visitors found a lovely
new carpet to admire —a velvety blue thing
of exceeding beauty that had only been put
down that morning. The little G.-G. had to
climb into uniform and motor off to camp
as soon as the dinner was over.
The Trade Commissioners, during their
brief rush of entertainment, spared one night
for the Theatre Royal and “A Midsummer
Night’s Dream.” The party was rather
badly arranged from a social point of view,
as each man sat with his own wife. (There
is no more effective way of killing conver-
sation.) The Fuller lady rolled along in her
yellow car, and Chamberlain Nevill, of the
G.-G. household, sat in unofficial dress in the
front row of the circle, joining the supper
party later on. The supper was served in
the theatre lounge after the show. Oscar
Asche and his Lily came round in the
dresses they wear in the last act. Lily
looked really beautiful in the bare-armed
wedding garment; but Oscar, in the rough
garb of Bottom, put a long overcoat on to
help him through. His bare brown legs
looked like the plump supports of a grand
piano.
The University did badly in securing only
part of the Commissioners’ sailing day.
Nearly every man was juggling desperately
with baggage and reluctant to spend the last
hurried hours absorbing more hospitality.
A skeleton party finally met the mortar
boarders and mopped weary brows while
they talked and drank the usual cordials. It
was a very jaded half-dozen that finally
escaped in the Maoriland steamer.
The Caulfield course preened itself be-
neath blue skies, on the second Saturday of
the V.A.T.C. Autumn Meeting. Everyone
had contrived to be there. The G.-G. strolled
along just out of tripping distance of his
willowy lady, who dexterously manipulated
trailing lengths of filmy black and white
chiffon, topped off with a white-plumed hat
that gave her the appearance of a major-
general on parade. Among the men in at-
tendance, Captain Burnham was a dream or
study in mole, with the loveliest scrambled-
egg-colored gloves. A fearful eruption of
purple bubbled up everywhere in the form
of shoes, stockings, gloves, hats, bows, and
every conceivable sort of trimming. The
modest violet has certainly been done to
death this time by the drapers. So plentiful
is it that most women are sick of it already.
It will probably go out with a rush before
winter is over.
On the lawns were Millers, Brownes, Mad-
dens, Baillieux and all the motorcracy. Mrs.
Tom Garnett, in black relieved with touches
of pale blue, was attended by daughter Mrs.
Geoffrey Syme. Oscar Asche was proudly in
attendance on the lovely Lily, who wore a
midsummer dream of rose ninon and lace.
Tea was quite a pleasant and easy func-
tion. It was set out on long tables in the
commodious new shelter, and nobody got
trodden on or spattered. Also there seemed
to be enough waiters to go round. Those
who expected to see an array of autumn
fashions just didn’t, for the day turned out
so sunny that all sensible women gladly
hung up the new garments and went out in
summer’frocks. A few poor, misguided crea-
tures broiled in winter felts, and said nasty
things about the calendar, a document the
free Australian climate frequently ignores.
The wife of a military newcomer lately
went to return the call of a Toorak matron,
and, on the way to the house, discovered the
lady in the garden. “I’m not really at home,
you know!” moaned the called-on in an-
guished tones. “Nobody is at home in Mel-
bourne in January,” continued the she-ass
amongst the garden thistles. “I have to be
in Melbourne at present; but I just shut
myself up in the house, you know. I’m not
calling, or being at home to anyone, just
now!” The would-be caller got outside with
all possible speed, nodded brightly to the
absent one, and walked off shaking with
laughter. It seems that some of the sol-
emnly suburbanites hereabout recog-
nise “seasons” for being in and out of town.
January is a socially dead month amongst
this curious sect, and any poor wretch who
has to stay in town during that time uses
the back streets as much as possible, lurks
indoors, and generally ceases to “play
ladies.”
The divorce of the week, not to say of the
season, occurred on Monday when Mr.
Meyer, some time of the Asche-Brayton Co.,
legally tore himself from the lady whom
playgoers knew well, a year or so back, as
Miss Dorothy Grimston. There was no de-
fence. Mr. and Mrs. Meyer were popular
in Society both here and in Sydney. For
one thing, in the dreadful phraseology of
Suburbia, they are “well-connected at
Home.” He is a nephew of Lord Burnham.
She a daughter of Mrs. Kendall, who for
many years held the proud record of being
the most virtuous female on the English
stage. She was in the habit of saying so
herself, and it was generally admitted that
she ought to know. There is a story that a
crowd of admiring playgoers presented Mrs.
Kendall with a pearl necklace as a tribute
to her superb uprightness. Also, there is a
sequel to it, in the form of a bon mot or
epigram, or envious sneer, or something,
uttered by Mrs. Langtry when she learned
of the event. But the latter is not for the
readers of this serious old family journal.
Miss Grimston acted in “The Flag Lieuten-
ant” with Tith., Miss Ethel Warwick and
others, and being tall and svelte and comely,
made fairly good. Her late husband does
not act. He was one of Asche’s business
managers. At the present time he is mana-
ging a farm.
A party of girls and a demure chaperone
went boating the other night on the covered
aqueduct or roofed gutter that trickles round
Luna Park. Their boat bumped another,
and the result was an upset. Their pretty
dresses were ruined, their tempers likewise,
and, in addition, the chaperone developed
symptoms of rheumatism. The damp crew
sought out the manager, tearfully detailed
the facts, and asked what he intended to do
about it. The genial official thoughtfully
masticated his cigar awhile. At last he spoke.
“Look here! Would you care for a free
ticket for to-morrow night, or a free ride on
the river naow?” He certainly was most
surprised when those people curtly refused
both offers and trailed off home to change.
Guess you couldn’t squeeze any thanks out
of some people with a hydraulic press.
A party of Ramsays and Baillieux are
booking their passages to England by an
outgoing steamer. Mary Ramsay, who mar-
ried the absurdly wealthy son of a promi-
nent whisky, is joining the party with her
husband.
Ernestine Stephenson is back again in
Melbourne. Ernestine is one of the daugh-
ters of the late squatter Stephenson, who be-
longed to the early days, and at one time
had money to burn. The conflagration con-
cluded some time ago. When he departed
this life, he left his wife and numerous
daughters little more than a huge, towered
and turreted castle in Toorak which needs
an impossible army of retainers and a for-
tune to keep up. In these domestically help-
less days, it is a white elephant of vast
dimensions to private lifers, and even
frightens the intending buyer who wants a
commodious place for a paying guestery.
Daughter Ernestine has been ‘the favored of
Fate, having spent long and frequent periods
abroad with the lady who once was Mrs.
Rupert Clarke. Ernestine was her brides-
maid when she took Rupert for better or for
worse; and recently, in London, she acted
in the same capacity, when her friend made
her second marriage and became the wife of
Grey-Egerton. It looks rather like a record
in bridesmaiding.
A black-eyed French-Australian youth,
reckoned by the wisely fond mothers of Mel-
bourne as an eligible of the first rank, has
captured a Tasmanian squatteress. Adequate
preparations are being made to proclaim the
alliance from the roof gardens. (This is
merely an advance warning, in order that
you may get ready to cheer and caper like
the chorus when the hero wins the leading
soprano and the village policeman has his
foot on the villain’s throat.)
Dr. Archie Hug, who only recently hoisted
the engaged signal, is hurrying the wedding
along. He will wed Miss May Duckett the
day after the Feast of April Fool.
The mother-in-law joke will have to be re-
vised. The devotion of a young husband to
his pretty young mother-in-law has caused
trouble —serious trouble that may end in
court. If there can be said to be any moral
about the affair it is that mothers-in-law
have no right to be young and fascinating.
Lawyer Kilpatrick is selling out, home
and baggage, law books and all, and depart-
ing to Kngland. His health, for some time
past, has been a thing of shreds and patches.
He has always been a friend and admirer
of Alfred Deakin, and it may be that the
prospect of public life without Alfred is too
depressing.
Lawyer James Lawson, of Melbourne, has
impressive if not absolutely staggering tid-
ings re his brother, Major-General Lawson.
The warrior was recently married, in
London, to the Countess Lathom, a re-
nowned beauty, and widow of a nobleman
who was something or other in the house-
hold of the late Edward. The daughter of
the Countess was married, on the same day
as mamma, to a lordling. Lawyer James has
another brother who supports a Judge’s wig
in Dublin. It gives him a thrill of pride to
think how greatness has been thrust upon
his relations.
Solicitor Macdonald and his wife returned
from foreign places to tind themselves be-
sieged for parental blessings. Son Hector,
who is a partner in the legal business, had
become engaged to June Clapp, and the
youngest Macdonald daughter was confi-
dently asking for a ticket of admission to the
family circle for wealthy flour-miller Ivimp-
ton. Mr. and Mrs. Macdonald had iust left
their eldest daughter in England, receiving
congratulations on her engagement to a mon-
eyed young planter from the Canary Islands.
She is to hunt the trousseau in London, and
be married from the house of Macdonald in
Scotland. Australia will not see her again
before the wedding.
The death of young Frank McLaughlan
came as a great shock to his father, “Jimmy”
McLaughlan, the popular president of the
Australian Club. The family were boating,
launching and summering generally at the
Gippsland Lakes, and Frank, a youngster of
21, took a brief holiday to Sydney. There he
was suddenly attacked by appendicitis, and
was carried off to hospital, only to die almost
immediately. The boy was engaged to Miss
Gibson, daughter of the wealthy Gibsons
who take prizes with their sheep from the
Deniliquin run which adjoins the Mac pro-
perty. The youngster was a grand nephew
of the well-known “Bobbie” Rand, the rich
old bachelor who died intestate, like Tyson,
and whose enormous wealth was distributed
amongst the Rand family. The first Mrs.
McLaughlan, the boy’s mother, was a Rand,
and came in for a big portion. The present
Mrs. Jim, an American beauty, is daughter
of a millionaire boss of some big electrical
companies in Boston.
A person called “Seatholder” has been
pouring forth inky lamentations about the
stiff-necked, chillsome -ways of the modern
parson, Anglican or “dissenting.” The par-
ish incumbrance collects his pew rents as of
old, but he seems to have quite lost his relish
for afternoon tea. weak gossip and garden
party loitering. What is the advantage in
paying for a pew if it leads to no social or
vestry dissipations of an improving nature?
“Seatholder,” apparently, is a gentle spin-
ster with a weakness for curates, and it is
too cruel to think that her mite is powerless
to procure so much as one soul-sustaining
glance or blessed hand-clasp. The purchas-
ing power of the sovereign is waning in all
directions.
Agnes Murphy is still wandering from one
resort to another, trying to regain some of
the health spent in 18 busy years of work
and travel. Still she asserts that, were she
free of her Quinlan contract and loose in
London, she would muster up sufficient
energy to go suffragetting.
Croquet, the sedate dissipation of our
grandmothers, will fairly rage in March, and
a number of the Very Best People are now
engaged knocking fat wooden spheres round
smooth, hoop-littered lawns, by way of pre-
paration for the first of the month, when the
grim work is scheduled to start. The cham-
pionship is down for March 6.
A flaming scarlet poster, issued by the
Essendon River League, bears witness that
Henley-on-Maribyrnong is imminent. The
trickle has a geographical association with
the Saltwater River, a stream well known to
horse-racing enthusiasts who like to see the
Flemington gallops cheaply. The boiling-
down studios adjoining the stream are a bit
of a handicap from a social point of view:
but I am told that it isn’t so bad when the
tide is high. Presumably, carriages may be
ordered just before the ebb.
Several Anglo-Indians (or Australio-In-
dians) are returning to the Commonwealth
about May. The wealthy widow Galbraith-
Moore and her young daughter Rhyll (now
Mrs. Maddox) will bring in their train the
planter bridegroom. Pearl Pardy, a young
Melbournite who married horse-dealer Bal-
dock, of Bombay, will return with tv
carrying the new baby, for a t ? em
the Melbourne relatives are hungering
I red Bow’s daughter (Mrs Rkh? B ,' Thf>
already here. She has been hoi!' ist
the Gippsland Lakes with Mamma ni? 8 at
raiding the Melbourne shops for ‘“someth' 10
to wear.” The massed Saratogas behTnfr
presumably contain bricks, for Z f, 1 ?®
b£ek r asserts tl,at she “ hasn,t a ft;
Howard Ashton now has possession of th„
Athenaeum Hall, where an entertaining 11
of his pictures obscure the walls 8 « es
are glowing little bits of countryside a!
coastline that demand a long second look iJ
passing. The catalogue is an origins
ment It gives you a list of the co fi B tl'
the title of each canvas. This is k
a . d % “^ a 7 n ” grey and Kef
Fig Tree” (green, white and gold) Oth ’
artists should adopt the idea. If we W
what things are made of, we ought to h
able to make a fair guess at what some of
them mean. 01
Mrs. Maesmore Morris, the one-time
beauty ot Melbourne, is now enduring the
fierce calm of life on a Ceylon tea estate
with her second husband, a Mr. Macdonald
Sutor He once wore the uniform of J
P. and O. officer. Colin Morris, his wife’*
eldest boy, is growing the teetotal plant next
The Asche setting of ‘‘A Mirknmmn
Night’s Dream” has the frivolous e&Ta
I rench impressionist color sketch ; but it R
tempered with sombre costuming, dimlv
suggestive of stained glass windows. The
very Solid Lily Brayton wears a gorgeous
and ample purple robe, while Hernia’*
petunia-colored garments are a direct erih
from a church window saint. Miss Orton
Sfing- Plays the part, looks very like
Elf nda Clement the lady who suddenly de-
parted for England on the morning of Hip
first rehearsal. The orchestra, so long ex-
lied from its rightful trench, is once more
back in the old bear pit.
Beatrice Day is at present suffering with
a sprained arm and wrist. The damage was
done by jumping off a St. Kilda tram and
colliding with a buggy. In these days of
motor accidents, only a thoroughly original
woman would be run down by a horse-drawn
vehicle.
From my Adelaide corresnondent:—
The Turner-Ayers, Dean-Gordon, Milne-Fotherine-
ham and Moulden-Wood knot-tyings are all fixed for
March or early April. Mrs. Box and her daughter
leave for Sydney next week, and the marriage of the
latter to Lieut. J Lewis, R.N., will take place at
Garden Island on March 11.
Talking of weddings, the fine old English sport
of nce-throwing on railway platforms is doomed. At
the final scene of a recent marriage celebration a total
stranger to the joyous party got about a pound and
a half of raw rice in the left eye. He protested to
the Railways Commissioner, and now the manly old
pastime has been put on a legal par with brick-
heaving.
A number of guests at the Peake farewell banquet
were smitten with ptomaine poisoning. It might
have been worse. There were some politicians there
who deserved prussic acid.
The death of Mr. A. Williams will mean a general
move-on in the Education Department. The late
director, who was born at Kaumantoo in ’63, began
at Moonta in ’76 as a pupil teacher. He became
director early in 1906, when the late Thomas Price
was Premier and Minister of Education. He was
keen on his job, and by study, experiment and trav.i
did what he could to boost it along.
The Mount Crawford polo team met Adelaide at
Plympton on Saturday, and made the haughty citv
sportsmen sit up considerably. Mrs. George Bagot
administered tea to the Bosanquets, Mr. and Mrs.
Row, the Leonard Bakewells, Alick Murrays, Warrens,
Mrs. Tom Barr Smith, Mrs. Stanley Murray and
Mrs. O’Leary, and others.
The Willie Popes are on their way back from
England, and with them is Margaret, the good-look-
ing daughter of Mr. Herbert Hughes, of Booyoolie
station. The Bishop Thomases are leaving us.
Their holy roof will shelter the Teasdale Smiths while
they are away.
The Light Horse camp at Smithfield narrowly
missed death by starvation. In fact, if the men had
sat down and waited for food to be pushed into their
mouths, none would have survived. As it was, they
walked out and got it, and so there are no deaths to
record. The Y.M.C.A.’s “Field Service Department’’
helped to obviate what would have been one of the
grimmest tragedies in our brief island story.
A man who weighs 7cwt. has arrived here from
England. He had to be carted from the Outer
Harbor to his hotel in a truck, and now his mana-
ger is wondering deliriously how he is to be hauled
over our vast and mostly narrow-gauged railway sys-
tem in a manner that will show a profit on the
outlay. The working exes, of a venture of this sort
have to be reasonable, or loss is a certainty. A fat
man is not like a classical opera or a brilliant play.
People do not patronise him over and over again.
They merely come once, say “How awful!” or words
to that effect, and then go home and basely tell their
friends that, as a work of art, he is not worth the
3d. Meanwhile, the immense person is eating and
drinking furiously, lest he decline in weight anil
lose his market value. If freight-troubles are added
to the others, the day will dawn when entrepreneurs
will give over elevating the minds of their fellows by
carting outsize specimens of humanity about the
world.
The Turf and the Church are on nodding terms in
friendly S. Aus. Whitmore Carr, who (as “Tar-
quin”) was sporting editor of the Register for
many years, made money in shares, then married a
small mint, and now chairmans both the Adelaide
Racing Club and Stock Exchange. Lately, he has
presented a beautiful reproduction of Holman’s
“Christ and the Rich Ruler” to St. Peter’s Anglican
Church, Glenelg, of which his late wife was a com-
municant. And at a neighboring tabernacle, the
Glenelg Congregational, you can see S. Australia's
best-known trainer, John Hill, in devout attendance
every Sabbath.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.


)
7?A1 1
W:
Sfc
794JL
\ A-
f § / /M§i
j%.
cv ..
':'f-SW£
,/. 4 itf?
//&////
/ft '?£ U U//M r J//j r IM ;r\J I
l •■ jIJ f jmmMiii
7/a
QSftAV
W///J
J -1
800 rftuSl*
Ti A H
AX
»swvr;
8
3S
■■- r
mm
mm
rnmmmtmzm
m&m
mmm
Wmm
A
,•
&
■ • ■ .
efeß
mmft & * > •>'»
gfirr Hl„/i
V
m
m /
Z//'i'< / /,
.TSSac
yv / y /
y/X
f!
///
X-
//
..,,,/
!/[:■ ' sy£
J [i
'/if
Sat
m
WJtfi
if VA y y .’■>
,
LX
RocnTbus*
i « W i"i > , !/ e P?H(4f’
wms*£h.
i&PWT'V’-A / ••'
!V^fe£
it
! M
■Jtif
'm
I m
m
■>x
j*- > A .tfi- 'A':-AA
■
ilgife
'•"•‘S^rL'i
r' ? ;
m
P?
•if
jsla*
’VX
‘X
Q
vyj^-v^
r*s
CD
V-'
' -
C 5
f., -
~
' ■
X
r<(
■_ .-5
3
n
y :..
sa
s&
-v' 1 :
iS
?T
<•■•
/>
.V '
-o
A
&
r
J,
x
\
vy
•*J
%
nniwuiiMßH
Z 5
\
>'
\
(I
CobrSl, JShe Boot PolisK
Chunder Loo
Of Akim Foo
Flies at top speed
In the blue.
Upturned faces
Far, far down,
Watch him skimming
O’er the town.
Suddenly from
Out a cloud
Tins flash downward
Tc the crowd,
And they hear a
Clear voice call,
“Cobra I Cobra
Over all 1”


The Brightest Lightest and Smartest in Sydney.
PEPPERS’ New Premises,
3JO GEORGE STREET (near Hunter Street).
EXPERT LADIES' TAILORS.
COSTUMES FROM SIX GUINEAS.
HIGH-GRADE MEN'S TAILORS.
SAC SUITS FROM NINETY SHILLINGS
♦
Hatters, Hosiers, Mercers, etc.
PEPPERS LIMITED, 310 George Street,
BOILERMAKER ATTACKED.
“While working in the Government service as
boilermaker,” writes Mr. J. W. Watkins, Pelichet
Bay, Dunedin (N.Z.), “I developed a liver complaint
and was often gripped with severe pains across the
body. Nothing gave me any relief until a chemist at
Invercargill strongly recommended Chamberlain’s
Tablets. The first bottle gave me great relief, and
1 now enjoy good health.”*
Feel like giving up, worried, despondent, can’t
eat. Try Stearns’ Wine of Cod Liver Extract; in-
crease your appetite, restore your health, restore
the lost energy and be yourself.*
V
uPTORB
Single 17/6, Double 22/6.
Others from 3/6.
Our larg-e stock of the
latest Trusses for alt
kinds of Hernia is a
real boon to sufferers.
Denyer’s Special Elastic
Truss, fitted to size,
ends all trouble, dis-
comfort and fear.
Call or Write.
DENYER BROS.,
Truss and Abdominal Belt Makers,
281 George St. (o PP . Hunter St.), Sydney
POLITICAL
POINTS
A Freetrade paper seems to be able to
exult over anything, so long as it has not
given employment to its readers. Last week,
the S. M. Herald joyfully skied its bonnet
about a consignment of 500 cases of oranges
which had just arived from Palestine, re-
marking that it was not often that Sydney
people had (he privilege of eating oranges
grown in the Holy Land. Then, to cheer
up those who had not secured any of the
far-fetched fruit, it added that further con-
signments were expected. It looks like a
hard and unnecessary kick in the waistcoat
to the dear old sheet’s orange-growing Aus-
tralian readers. One would almost think
that the local orange grower was a blastifer-
ous manufacturer of something, instead of
being a decent primary producer.
THE LEGACY.
The FINANCIAL NEWS states that it is estimated
that colonial loans aggregating £120,000,000 must
be renewed or paid before the middle of 1914.
C OHEN: “I want a settlement. Do you re-
member this little bit of business?"
A USTRALIA: “Oh, yairs! That's a legacy what
these coves left me."
“F.C”: Anent Vic. Premier Watt’s pro-
fessed inability to see how the State is to
regulate prices, and how a railway depart-
ment is to be run other than chaotically if
aa outside body fixed the wages it should
pay. The wages of all employees on the
largest employing concern in the State—the
Melbourne Tramway Co. —have been fixed
by an outside body, and Watt’s own State
has all along regulated the prices it might
charge for its wares— i.e., its fares. And—
marvellous thing!—so satisfied is the com-
pany with its position under this “outside
interference” and “State regulation” that
Watt himself has for months been vainly
trying to get the co. to reduce its “State-
regulated” prices.
John Bull’s Territorial force, which re-
presents the final effort to show that a vol-
untary army is still possible, continues to
fade. Last year it declined by 6600 men. It
has been doing that sort of thing almost
since the beginning, and even the beginning
was more of a slump than a commencement.
“F.C.” : Australia’s hybridists are notified
that the Panama-Pacific Exhibition offers a
£2OO trophy for a new rose. If anybody
knows how to make a blue or black one, let
him produce the article and beat Luther
Burbank on his own place of advertisement.
On the whole, though a £2OO trophy is a
desirable possession, Australian brains' might
be better employed on inventing a new ri\j.e,
or some other hurtful piece of defence
machinery.
WHAT DEAKIN SAW.
DEAKIN (one month retired): “Good riddance
to the old thing. If it stays where it is
it'll go to pieces. If it wants to move it
must go either one track or the other, and
if it tries to go on both tracks at once
there's going to be a big smash."
Ballarat (Yic.) provides the first detected
case of false pretences in connection with
the Maternity Bonus, and it cost the lady
£lB Bs. in all. The baby was born 20 days
before the bonus came into force, and the
lady decided that that was near enough to
chance it. Wherefore she forged the local
nurse’s signature and sent in a claim, which
was paid. Then an inquisitive clerk noticed
a difference in the two signatures—and there
was more work for the beak and the bobby.
The State bummers now carry on their
cadging business under a sort of partner-
ship or cobber arrangement. When Barnes
dodges into J. Bull’s, Watt and Peake stay
outside the gate. “Wotcher git?” says Watt
when Barnes emerges. “Million!” says
Barnes with bulging eyes. Then they sit
down and cut it up. Next time Watt does
the “touching”—he is on the way now —and
after him Peake. Then they’ll cut their
swags up if the others’ tucker-bags are thin
at the moment. It’s a beautiful arrange-
ment, and shows, anyhow, that the cadgers
have got down to their right level at last.
Some pernicketty individual in England
opines in a London paper that the Aus-
tralian fleet will have no status, and will
rank merely as a privateer or pirate institu-
tion, because Australia isn’t, by itself, a
“sovereign State.” Yet the Australian fleet
has some precedent behind it. Its status
looks better than that of the old East India
Company’s armed ships. Bulgaria kept a
little fleet at sea when it was merely a
tributary State; and Egypt used to show its
flag on the waters, though it was, and still
is, nominally Turkish territory. Greece
had, by permission, a fleet of a sort when it
was still Turkish property. And seeing
that the Australian States have had their
own naval and military forces (also of a
sort) for 50 years or more, without any
question being raised as to their status, it
seems rather late to begin building a fuss.
In Japan the heavenly attributes of the
Mikado seem to be fading a trifle, for the
population of the capital and other cities has
been rioting with the cheerful abandon of a
crowd of “greasers” hunting the scalp of a
twopenny Mexican President. The chief
fury. was directed against newspapers and
politicians that supported the Government,
and the smash done was memorable. At
Tokio the intense cold finally drove the
wreckers indoors. Japan is a beastly cold
place in winter, which is doubtless the reason
why certain politicians want to fill Aus-
tralia’s Northern Territory with the Chry-
santhemum folk on the plea that they' are
just the sort of people for a hot climate.
“Red Tape, Jun.”:—
The N.S.W. Government has apparently succeeded
at last in temporarily dishing a public servant. He
was a pumper at the Meat Works, Glebe Island, Syd-
ney, for many years, and on his retirement was paid
£lO9 as gratuity instead of the £5OO he expected.
So he went to law. In 1894 his Department was
handed over to the Department of Public Health, and
in 1895 the Public Service Board arrived. The
Board sat on the pump driver, graded him, gazetted
him, and parcelled him out generally as a public
servant. On his retirement, the Government blandly
informed him that he wasn’t a public servant at all,
the Board and the Gazette and the other investigating
parties having made a mistake when they said he
was. This callous view has been upheld by the State
Pull Court with costs against the pumper.
The Board or the Government Gazette are not
charged anything. Probably, the decision of the
Court will be blown out on appeal. If not, the
Government’s luck in trying to beat old servants
for their pensions is changing.
“K.” : Statistician Knibbs is still heaving
out masses of information gathered from the
’ll census. A late bulletin considers the occu-
pations of the Commonwealth’s citizens, and
from this it appears that while persons en-
gaged in industrial pursuits increased, be-
tween ’Ol and ’ll, from 429,466 to 562,337,
the primary producers simultaneously ad-
vanced only from 533,107 to 586,088. The
day is apparently close at hand when the
industrial toilers will outnumber the blessed
“backbone,” which circumstance really
means that Australia is slowly quitting the
foolish practice of dragging masses of raw
material from the land and sending them
away to be turned into merchandise, and is
beginning to do the work herself. Knibbs
divides these primary producers into seven
sub-classes: (1) agricultural, (2) pastoral,
(3) fisheries, (4) forestry, (5) water con-
servation, (6) mining and quarrying, and
(7) the capture of wild animals —and it ap-
pears that while some 15,000-women follow
the first two callings, 78 go a-mining, 17
conserve water, 12 have daily dealings with
forests, 10 live by snaring fish, and 25 earn
a crust at the game of capturing wild ani-
mals. The latter are, however, most likely
organisers of the Women’s Liberal Leagues,
engaged in stalking to its lair the ferocious,
untamed tiger—Sosh.
ON THE EVE OF BATTLE.—
A DILEMMA.
The daily press loudly urges Mr. Cook on to vigor-
ous, aggressive leadership, whilst from various out-of-
way places is heard the faint voice of an occasional
Fusionist timorously advocating a live, national, pro-
gressive Protectionist policy, etc.
Private Bigjohn : “Pity we can't load her up
with real proper powder an' some good
solid shot , Joe; then we MIGHT stand a
chance."
General Jokooic : “No good f me , John!
Think of the danger. The old gun couldn't
stand it. 1 here d be a ’omble disaster,
an' that'd be the end of all of us."
The beautifully comforting gag that “all
Australians are natural fighters” looks
rather foolish in the light of a statement made
recently by Major F. B. Heritage, during a
lecture at Victoria Barracks (Sydney). The
expert said that “at a camp at La Perouse
80 p.c. of the men became gun-shy.... The
preliminary training was non-existent, and
the men shut their eyes before they pulled
the trigger.” It doesn’t seem the sort of
thing that “natural fighters” would do. But
perhaps “natural fighters” are like “natural
jumpers.” One of the breed was entered for
a V.R.C. Grand National some years ago,
and several people, including the writer, went
out to Flemington to watch it beat the
leaping animals that had been merely taught
their job. The “natural” brute hit five suc-
cessive jumps with his nose, four feet and
tail; then the jockey who was steering him
ran him off to save a tragedy. The gallant
brute was quite willing to go on clouting
the timber; but, bv that time, the other
horses that hadn’t stayed to play death-
rattles on their fences were furlongs ahead,
and it wasn’t worth anyone’s while to go on
risking necks. Training may not be abso-
lutely necessary, but the man or horse that
has it possesses a devil of an advantage.
From the London Times :
Mr. A. Metheringham, lace manufacturer r,f
Beeston, Nottinghamshire, announces that, in o’otk, ’
quence of the effect of hostile tariffs, he is Z,
to remove the whole of his plant and machinery t
Hungary, where he is now erecting a factory
will afford employment to 400 hands. 1 Wctl
Why, indeed, should a manufacturer want
ing a market, stay in a Freetrade countrvV
If he does stay, it is the one free market lie
has, while by shifting to a protected country
he can get at least two markets—the Free
trade market, which is open to him wher
ever he goes, and the protected market
which is only free to him if he settles him’
self inside it.
AUSTRALIA'S OPEN WINDOW.
Mr. Gee War, Chinee missionary, of Ade-
laide, speaking lately in the City Mission
Hall on the iniquity of Australians in shut-
ting out his countrymen, quoted trium-
phantly : “God hath made of one blood all
the nations of men.” But why didn’t Gee
War finish his text? It winds up: “And
hath fixed the hounds of their habitation.”
The Sydney gas employees are demanding
an increase of wages because, they say, the
cost of maintaining a family has increased
since 1911 by Bs. or 10s. a week. That, at
all events, isn’t due to the tariff. The poor
old tariff hasn’t moved for quite a number
of years except when it moved downward
by the granting of preference to the Ma
Country. Perhaps it is that foolish approach
towards Freetrade that has caused the
trouble.
Henry Lucy, who perpetrates a London
letter for the S. M. Herald, did a blaze of
glory last week about the vast export and
import trade of the British islands. The
trade is certainly huge, but it isn’t all that
it seems, a great deal depends on the way
the figures are put together. Thus, Britain
includes as foreign trade all
its dealings with Canada.
Newfoundland, the British
West Indies, British Guiana,
the vast British territories in
Africa, India, Ceylon, Aus-
tralia, Maoriland, Hongkong,
Cyprus and a multitude of
other dependencies. But Rus-
sia doesn’t reckon as foreign
trade the buyings and sellings
of the mother country with
Russian Poland, Lithuania,
the Crimea, Bessarabia, Fin-
land, Siberia, Russian Tar-
tary or other comparatively re-
cent possessions. Nor do the
original States of the U.S.
reckon as foreign trade
their dealings with the newer
oues—California, Florida,
Louisiana. Colorado, Texas
and the like. In like manner,
Austria doesn't reckon the
goods it sends to Hungary in
its trade returns. A good deal
of the magnificent commerce of
Britain would disappear if the
Ma Country kept its accounts
in the fashion of Russia or
Austria. In fact, hut for this
fake, or whatever it may be
called, Germany would have beaten it badly
as an exporting country in 1911.
The announcement that a Greek fleet has
set out for the invasion of Asia suggests
that the mills of God generally get there in
the end. Over 2400 years ago the Persian
came to Europe and made Greece, despite
its ultimate success, feel very tired. A cen-
tury or two later the Greek went across to ■
Asia to look for the Persian, and made hiim
feel very dead. Then the Roman conquered'
the Greek, and later the Greek succeeded to
the throne of the Roman. The revived Per-
sian, came to look for that throne, and nearly
got it; and next the revived Greek went out
under Heraclius and obliterated the Per-
sian. Later, the Turk came and stamped
the Greek flat, though the Greek, in the
days of the imperial house of Comnenus
stamped considerably on the Turk before he
went down. And now the Greek, having
taken a long breath and re-inflated himself,
goes out to look for the Turk in the old Per-
sian realm, and to see if he can’t make a
final settlement. Demetrius Phriedphish is
doing pretty well these days, and his prawn
is shining in the forefront of the battle, and
public opinion, which for years has held
him in contempt, begins to slew round his
way. In the old, old days when he was Mil-
tiades Phriedphish he was a hefty warrior,
and there is half a dream that the old days
are coming back.
A COOK ON TRUST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
As to the policy of the Fusion, I have already said,
and say again, that the policy of the party with
which I am associated is at present to get the
Government out in the interests of the country.
—Jokook in Melbourne.
It was a sullen, envious cook,
And up against the public pane
He flattened hard his nose to look
At one concocting dishes plain,
Whom of his nice, fat, easy job
It was his heart’s desire to rob.
He pleaded: “Turn that fellow out,
And put me in. He cannot cook.
His meals will make you all too stout.
Oh, let the rascal take his hook,
And give to me the place and pay,
For all your sakes, I humbly pray.
“His menu’s shameful. True that I
Have none at all, and cannot say
If I will give you meat or pie
This day, or next, or any day.
But if I give you none, no doubt
’Twill do you good to go without.
“Your chief, your one concern should be
To toss this fellow from the pub,
And in his office station me,
Regardless of gross thoughts of grub.
He gives you food to make you fit.
But I’ll give you my word for it!”
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.
IMMATERIAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A. Lewis, organiser of the Carters and Drivers’
Union (Melb.), says: “So far as the working classes
are concerned, it is immaterial whether the fiscal
policy is Freetrade or Protection.”
The year is 1933.
Freetrade has bust each industry
In White Australia. Lewis finds
His union scattered to the winds.
We see the poor, benighted man,
A. stowaway to far Japan,
To seek a job where trades exist,
As organising unionist.
VICTORIA.
S.S.


pr"
■Wk ml
1
•~ii
<
■
•••' :*
w
THE. MOST RELIABLE
BRITISH-BUILT PIANO,
The SAMES
The beautiful SAMKS PIANO can justly be regarded as the
foremost Knglish Piano. It is built by the highest type of
skilled British workmen in a modernly equipped factory.
With ample capital, the latest appliances and equipments, the
very best materials and timber, the manufacturers are enabled
to turn out this first-class piano at a moderate price. Purchasing
large shipments at regular intervals we obtain large discounts,
so that our price for the SAMKS PIANO is absolutely bedrock.
Added to the great advantage of our moderate price, the
bu\ er may take the advantage of our Kasy Time Payments—
a small deposit and the balance spread over one, two or three
years. A really good, sound, honest instrument is thus brought
within reach of those of even moderate means.
The SAMES PIANO 1
In recommending the SAMES PIANO to our customers we do so with the
utmost confidence. It possesses a beautiful, sweet, sonorous tone, a truly responsive
touch, and its construction is perfect to a detail. It is used and appreciated by
great pianists and has a place in the foremost Musical Homes, Schools of Music,
Colleges, etc., in Great Britain.
You are invited to visit our Spacious Show Rooms and inspect. If
unable to call, our Illustrated Descriptive Catalogue and Price Lists are
post free. Write for them to-day.
H
PALING’S, Newcastle, Lismore, Brisbane, Toowoomba.
338 George St.,
SYDNEY.
SUIT FOR
Complete
Suit-Satisfaction at a
Saving of 20—-^-
That is the sum total of this offer -You
give nothing away for the saving in
hard cash effected by the offer—there is
no falling off in quality to accord with the
reduction in price.—Everyone of the 500
“70 /- for 50 /-” materials at your dis-
posal is quite equal to any 70/- Suiting
you have ever seen - Each “70/- for
50 /-” Garment is right up to usual
impeccable “ Perfection at the Price 70 /-
Standard, and covering the whole trans-
action is our now-famous Client-Protecting
guarantee-
We Refund Money if
We Fail to Satisfy
But if you are dubious as to our being
able to give such good value, you can Test
and Try before you buy—
Write for Patterns
NOW —Remember there is only one way
in which to be disappointed, and that is
by being too late —for the
Offer Holds for Two
Weeks Only
mm
m *' *
&<*
Lincoln, Stuart
S' C<? pry. Ltd.
FLINDERS ST MELBOURNE
• • •
A Picture Show in Your Own Home
with Little Trouble or Expense!
The “Ernemann”
Home Machine
£Bfl 01- Complete.
Takes Standard Size Films.
The “ Ernemann ” Home Machine is absolutely
the Finest Cinematograph Machine for Home Use.
It is similar in construction to the World-famed
“Ernemann” Imperator, but a smaller model.
SIMPLE TO USE AND VERY PORTABLE.
Complete Lighting Outfits for Gas, Spirit
or Electric Light, from 15/-
Write for Full Particulars to —•
380 George St., Sydney; 266 Collins St., Melbourne.
93-95 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE; GAWLER PLACE, ADELAIDE; 42 WILLIS STREET, WELLINGTON ;
QUEEN STREET, AUCKLAND; A. L. TILLY, Special Agent, PERTH, W.A.
lIP


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Absolutely Pure.
No Preservatives.
Ĥ
E. RESCH’S LIMITED , Brewer by Appoint-
ment to Jus Excellency the Governor-General.
Brewery and Offices : Dowling Street, Redfern, Sydney
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
RHEUMATISM.
Rheumatism is generally regarded as one
of the most difficult ailments to cure, and in-
variably medicines are tried simply with the
Ħ
hope of temporary re-
lief. Dr. Morse’s In-
dian Root Pills have
been wonderfully suc-
cessful, not by merely
affording a cessation
of the pain, but by re-
storing the joints to
their original supple-
ness. Used in con-
junction with Com-
stock’s Nerve and
Bone Liniment, the
most stubborn cases of
Rheumatism, Lumba-
go and Sciatica have
been overcome. In the
case of Miss King,
Union Street, Foxtom, N.Z., related by her
mother, the results exceeded expectations.
She says:—“My daughter suffered acutely
from Rheumatism in the arms and hips,
which caused her a great deal of pain,
especially during wet weather. Having tried
many remedies for Rheumatism, all of which
proved useless, she went on suffering until
advised to try Comstock’s Nerve and Bone
Liniment, which was used in conjunction
with Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. After
the first bottle we noticed a great improve-
ment, so we persevered with the treatment,
and used four bottles in all, when all signs
of Rheumatism left and have never returned
since. I cannot speak too highly of your
Nerve and Bone Liniment, and can also re-
commend Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills as
a grand corrective for all common ailments.”
The Liniment is sold by all leading
chemists and storekeepers, or will be posted
at same price, 2s. 6d. per bottle, by the W.
H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Sydney.*
The Queen
of
AP°
llif 1
af is
Table waters 7
H
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
Ĥ
TO
H.IWI. THE KINO.
SGRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRE PARATION
MARVELLOUS
Refreshing a Turkish Fiath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
d SP'end.d Cleansing Preparatioi n for the Hair.
Re Sc S ? f and Grease Spots i >om Clothing, Etc.
. . Allays the Irritation caused by iWlosauito Bites
V,S0 C ,n piat°e t a C n l rf te& „ th e q Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Soft ens Hard Water.
S o al ® . all Gr ocers an d Chemists.
SCRUBS A CO.,* LTD., LOND OIM, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Si«natu» of Scrub* , ft Co. on each Bottle.
Ħ
SPORTING
NOTIONS
t Kenn y an easy job when he met
F ? ra , n at the s 3 r dnev Stadium. The battle con-
sisted of three clouts, each of which sent Forall to
the boards. Then the towel came in and the con-
troversy was over in exactly two minutes from the
sound of the bell. Arthur Douglas and Joe Atcheson,
however, made things lively on the same evening.
Perhaps Douglas held his man rather cheaplv at first,
but Atcheson is a battler of considerable skill, and
while he took a few -pretty punches about the head
he kept boring away with an energetic left glove at
the S African’s body until he had him in trouble.
ln , tae • sl , xt , 1 round Douglas appeared done, completed
and finished, and Atcheson was administering wallop
m large doses when the bell saved a knock out.
Douglas got through the seventh round without
disaster, and fought doggedly on, but in the middle
of the eighth Atcheson got all over him again, and
a smashing wallop sent him to the boards. He got
sta £§F ed a or two and once more
ten. ft was a fine, game exhibition, and the better
man won, while the worse man incurred no shadow
or disgrace.
* * * *
The contest between Balzac and Jerry
l 6:, 0 ' 1 ? 6 ’ Q. ueens land aboriginal, could hardly be
Svdnev a afaa”” 8 ’ affa T' huge cro ' vd the
Sydney Stadium,. and the grinning blackfellow
t’l •“ hif l h t avor - The g rin was the chief
point about him. As he came crouching towards his
opponent with his abnormally long arms extended
and his copper-brown black with its darker scars
gleaming under the electric light, the writer could
not help a creepy sensation about the spine, for this
seemed to be no fight between man and man, but a
struggle between a partly-tamed forest animal and a
white man whose ancestors had forgotten 50 cen-
turies ago the stealth and craft of primitive tree war-
fare. Erect, grave and looking curiously white by
contrast with his opponent, Balzac seemed uneasy from
the start. Those long arms of the wild thing "beside
him in the ring had put him to sleep in the first
round of an engagement all too recently, and the
frenchman was taking no risks. When they fell
together in the clinches, and white skin touched
black, there seemed to be something uncanny and
unclean m the contact; but the big crowd was un-
conscious of it, and the blackfellow was hailed in
terms of fellowship and intimacy, and urged on to
destroy the white. For one who called the
f renchman s name there seemed to be a dozen
yelling in favor of the nigger. The disparity in
weight was considerable. The Frenchman was
handicapped to the extent of about 81b., and this,
coupled with the black’s greater reach, made it prac-
tically a foregone conclusion that the white would
not win. Still, Balzac carries a punch of some mag-
nitude, and once or twice he got home thrilling wal-
lops which put the grin of his opponent out of
action for a few moments. The black showed great
agility in avoiding punishment, and slipped out of
some ugly corners in a way that it would have
puzzled anything wearing paler skin to imitate. The
crowd was hugely diverted at some of Jerome’s antics.
The large, crouched mass of Binghi in shabby loin-
rag, standing upon big feet, which seemed to be at-
tached to the legs with sections of broomsticks in-
stead of ankles, pawing at his foeman’s glove at long
range, seemed to afford infinite joy to the onlookers.
The game was soon over. Up to the end of the
fourth round the Frenchman must have established
a good lead on points. In the middle of the fifth
round a blow from the black fist to the white body
sent Balzac to the boards, where he remained writli-
ing, and took the count of 10. The last the writer
saw of the battlefield was a Oinghi in a shabby over-
coat waving triumphantly to several thousands of
white supporters, and a Frenchman wounded in his
body and his pride sitting in his corner. The
fight was not much as a spectacle. As an exhibition
of boxing it was a howling absurdity. As a solid
argument for keeping every sort of nigger out of
every white man’s sport it" had its points. All the
same, Jerome played the game with strict fairness,
only it wasn’t the game that white men learn and
practise.
* * * *
There is no change in the position of the
competing teams in Sydney grade cricket. North
Sydney is still in front with 17 points, while University
and Redfern share second place with 14 each. On
Saturday, Middle Harbor put Glebe down by the
small margin of 14 runs. Central Cumberland wal-
loped Balmain by 200 on the first innings. Redfern
scored a win from Paddington by 60, also on the
first innings. In the Uni. v. Sydney match the seat
of learning, not content with a first-innings win,
closed its second innings with one wicket down for
77 in the hone of getting its opponents out in the
time that still remained for nlay. It didn’t manage
the deed, and Sydney scored so briskly that when
stumps were drawn it only wanted 16 runs for a
straight-out win. As it was, Uni. got a first innings
victory by the narrowest shave. Burwood, after
being behind the hunt in the first innings, scored a
good win by six wickets against Gordon. Waverley
went down to Petersham, but with a whole innings in
which to make the 79 runs required, the inland
suburb saw its stumps fall with such a frightful
clatter that it took five wickets to scrape together the
total. During the day, Noble and Pratten both
carried out their bats for centuries. Of the bowlers,
Wilcocks got six wickets for 23, Cotter four for 22,
and Freeman six for 49.
With only two more rounds to be olayed
the Victorian Cricketing Association pennant seems
likely to go to Fitzroy, unless that team takes things
too easily, and loses a match ; and even in that case
either ’Varsity, South or ’Wood must win the re-
maining games outright. ’Roy’s Saturday’s game
was a matter of interest. It had made but 99 on
the wet wicket of the previous week-end, but had
got seven Students out for 29. Then Hartkopf de-
clared, hoping to put ’Roy through the mill again
and make up the deficit on the second day. But
’Roy got its back up at this cavalier treatment,
made 51 for three wickets, and on the second after-
noon kept going till no less than 193 had been gath-
ered in—leaving ’Varsity 263 to make in less than
two hours. The Students, with a hopeless game on
their hands, played out time, making 59 for three
wickets, and thus lost on the first innings by 70
runs. ’Wood increased its 108 for six wickets to
225, against North’s 84, and set about demolishing
its victims again, but the time ran out with North
151 for nine wickets. P’ran collected 207 to ’Don’s
125, in the first innings, and dismissing the oppo-
sition for 86 in the second, won straight out with
10 wickets to spare. ’Cote, with six wickets down
for 243, declared with a lead over Richmond of 200,
but only succeeded in getting six of the other fel-
lows wickets for 159 when the time was up. East
increased its 142 for nine wickets to 189, all out, of
which young Baring made no less than 135 and
South, responding with 312 for seven wickets, won
on the first innings.
In Brisbane competition cricket, on Sat-
D , uffin ’. on behalf of Valley, rose on his
nind legs and slew six wickets for seven runs. Per-
J.A^w nL^ S ,i 0 l. SUC | 1 ? le I it ha PP en as rarely as Halley’s
comet, and the feat deserves a passing- cheer.
* * * *
Tw h - e }J av J C^ e ’ which resulted on the
rimL ll in! he - dlSquah J flcatio , n of j° cke y Chevalley for
riding the winner and in the disqualification of book-
the k other N fonl ° n f °! havirl S bribed ea ch of
the other jockeys to ride a loser, came into a Mel-
bourne law court last Week. Jockey Seastream sued
a ° r j Sa ] C i for dama & es > f or defamation of
a ? f false arrest, or words to that effect.
Seastream Was one of the riders who accepted £2O of
stiffening money from O’Neill, but it seems clear
that he revealed the fact to the owner of the horse
he Was riding, and would have won the race—
notwithstanding his “stiffening” fee—if his mount
had been good enough. After the race, Seastream
talked openiy of his luck in getting £2O for doing
what he hadn t done, therefore O’Neill was very
anxious to shut his mouth or to get him to swear
before the racing stewards that no stiffening had
occurred. Then Seastream, who regarded his “sacred
word as a thing which might be fairly sold to a
bOPKfflaker under false pretences, arranged to meet
O -Neill and state his terms for signing a false state-
ment. O Neill, for his part, arranged to have a de-
tective concealed on the premises, and when Sea-
stream was standing out for a £5OO bribe for making
a statement which he probably would have contra-
dicted later on, the bookmaker called forth the de-
tective and professed to give Seastream “into cus-
tody for blackmail.” The acquiescent detective, of
course, didn t really take the jockey into custody, but
he bluffed him into going to a policemen’s office.
Hence the claim for wrongful arrest. The plaintiff
had to convince judge and jury that in all his deal-
mg with the bookmaker he had been merely trying to
get money out of a scoundrel with a view to expos-
mg his scoundrelism. He did convince the jud°-e and
jury. The summing-up was not unfavorable to his
case, and the verdict was for £4OO damages. Ex-
posers of public abuses run in all shapes, and Sea-
stream, the jockey who took a bookmaker’s money
under false pretences, and would have taken as much
more of it as he could get on the same terms, must
iank as an exposer of turf malpractices in the cause
of morality. But it is quite certain that the Sea-
stream class of purist couldn’t turn his virtue to
financial account except in Victoria and N.S.W. The
rascality which benefited him to the tune of £2O in
the first instance, and £4OO in the second instance,
flourishes only in those States where bookmakers are
licensed, and the Tote is prohibited. The notorious
Wave case is, in fact, the nastiest brick in the eye
which opponents of the Totalisator have received for
some time. Not that it matters. The ODponents of
the honest, incorruptible democratic betting machine
always bob up serenely after being smote by a brick,
and cry “Never touched me.”
“By tripes! I hit him plurry hard in bingy."
De Balzac (France) conquered by Jerry
Jerome (Australia) at Sydney Stadium.
n in t eres tmg incident of the racing at
Caulfield last Saturday was the victory of Heather
hro, a despised outsider from Wheeler’s stable, in the
first race. Carrying 7st. 101 b. this astonishing 3-vear-
old turn-up did the six furlongs in respectable time,
and won easily The field was only moderate, certainly ;
nevertheless this unripe winner will probably be
worth following. The stable money was on Parolles
'in the same ownership as the Parisian), who ran
pretty badly. "
Eudorus, the 7-year-old imported horse, landed the
b uturity Stakes as per expectation, though not so
easily as the touts had predicted. After the dead
bird had got the better of Cider in the race for
home, volsloane came with a rush which brought that
honest battler within half a length of the leader as
they passed the post. Cider, 24 lengths behind, cap-
tured the i2OO third prize, and none of the others
showed _ any promise of turning the tables on Vol-
sioane in the Newmarket sprint next Saturday.
Apparently the Newmarket, anyway, is going to
one or other of the little lot from N.S.W. Hiciten-
botham retains hopes of doing the trick a second
time with Mala, but of all the old performers Vol-
sloane has the best chance on recent form, whilst
JNuwara Eliya stands pre-eminent among the track
gailopers. Of those that have been talked about and
backed since the weights appeared, Audacity Ale-
B ° rr ° So J] p oPinjay, Braggart, Broadsword,
Ireland and Rathlea can now be counted out iii this
writers opinion. They are either off color at pre-
sent, or not class enough for the struggle up the
- lemington straight. The chances are . that the
Aewmarket will be a very fast-run race, won bv
someming that has been specially saved for it. The
odds market, which is sometimes a better guide than
public form, points to Relievo. This casual prophet
reckons that the foremost lot at the business end of
the journey will be Gigandra, Volsloane, Mala
Nuwara Eliya, Oweenee and Relievo, and that the
highly-tried Relievo will get absolutely there.
miles ) is the one big flat
race of the year in which horses that have been over
the sticks are always worth considering, on the
chance that the course will be heavy. This year
Tjxbridge,_ Wallalo, Tinapagee and Arquebuse repre-
sent the jumpers on the job ; but in the light of re-
cent happenings they are an unattractive lot. Mid-
night Sun, from Maoriland, is probably unripe' as
yet, for so long a journey. The Parisian appears to
be suffering from the same shortcoming. Wilari is a
possibility, but the mare has done nothing in public
since she broke a blood vessel. Almissa, the fav-
orite, is the best-handicapped horse in the race
t , hat K h ! , C ; 1 ". sta - v ; but the Punter who
takes 3 to 1 about Almissa because he has run brilli-
antly up to 11 furlongs is taking a lot of extra
stamina for granted. It were safer to bet that
Paytens pair—Barios and Cider—will beat Almissa
Both are well in, and Cider (7st. 131 b.) will look
a veiv likely Cup horse when he has won the Leger
on Saturday Of the well-proved stickers, Cadonia
Flavian, Didus and Piastre have all been placed in a
Melbourne Cup. The two last-named are under slight
suspicion of soreness, or what not, nor is either of
them better handicapped than the stodgy Flavian
The writer votes for Flavian to win
The Australian Jockey Club (Sydney)
medically examined itself last week, decided that it
had a tendency to put on too much fat, and pro-
ceeded to take steps to reduce its weight. So it
decided on some important changes of diet as re-
gards stakes and penalties. Although the total
stakes for the year are considerably over £30,000,
an additional £7500, plus £SOO more for the Sires’
Produce Stakes of 1915, is to be handed out. The
races benefiting most by the change will be: Spring
Meeting, Randwick Plate, £ISOO to £2OOO, and
Spring Stakes, £IOOO to £ISOO. December Meet-
ing: Villiers Stakes, £750 to £IOOO. Summer
Meeting: December Stakes, £IOOO to £1250; Sum-
mer Cup, £1250 to £ISOO. Anniversary Meeting:
Anniversary Handicap, £6OO to £IOOO. Autumn
Meeting: A.J.C. Plate, £ISOO to £2000; and
Autumn Stakes, £IOOO to £ISOO. The Doncaster,
Epsom, Sydney Cup and Metrop. are unchanged.
Previously the winners of races prior to the Epsom,
and Doncaster were penalised in the big events, now
that is to be done away with, and the only penalties;
in the Metrop. and Sydney Cup will be Doncaster
and Epsom wins. And on top of that the A.J.C.’s;
sister club, the V.R.C., has decided to make a charge
of Is. for admission to the flat. Racing clubs seemi
to be in the same street as gas companies.
* * * *
The motor cyclists had a torrid time in
the rush between Sydney and Melbourne last week..
J. Gunn’s record of 25hr. 55min. has been worry-
ing the buzzers for a couple of weeks, and the slaint
who have fallen in the attempt to lower his figures;
resembled Napoleon’s leavings on his retreat from;
Moscow. The Dunlop people dangled a special gold I
watch for the first to throw the distance behind!
under 24 hours, and the prize and honor together,'
were a dazzling lure to every rider of a motor-cycle;.
Eric Tyler left Sydney on Wednesday night at nine-
o’clock, and the first lump was blown off the record i
by his flight over the journey in 24 hours 39}mirri.
Dodging ruts on the N.S.W. roads between Gundagaii
and Germanton, Tyler had three falls, and did the-
cockies a good turn by killing some scores of rab-
bits. It was a splendid effort, and the extermina-
tion of the pest by motor-cycle deserves the consid-
eration of the Government. Just as Tyler was-;
wiping the perspiration off his victorious brow, how-
ever, J. Bolger began a toot-toot from Melbourne to>
Sydney, and fate was so kind to him that the record'
between the cities was hurled beyond the realm of','
Chaos and old Night. Bolger’s time was 23 hours-
41min., and on the way he smashed not only the-
record but a belt, a lamp and some other trifles. Ss>»
great was the enthusiasm over Bolger’s performance-
that at 2.16 on Saturday morning there were owr
200 people at the Sydney G.P.O. to give him at
cheer.
* * * *
The 100 miles ocean race of the Royal
Yacht Club at Hobart provided an exciting finlrik
The race was round Bruni Island and back to tfue
river, and was the best of a dozen similar races
held. The weather was good at the start, but fn
the open water a 40-miles thresh against a strong
head wind tested the craft to the utmost. The
winner, Pandora, did the distance in 22 hours SO
mm. 10 sec., Curlew came across the line 23 see.
later, v anity followed in 7 sec. and Pilgrim was
fourth, only 5 sec. away. It was an astounding!*
close finish after a race of the length, little more
than half a minute separating the first four boats,
and only 2 min. 34 sec. the first five. Actea and
Crescent returned some time later, but they were
within 10 sec. of one another.
* * * *
An innovation was made on Saturday in
the race for the Rawson Cup (Sydney), by allow-
ing the yachts their handicap at the start. It is a
good idea, and makes the exact position of tie
competitors more intelligible to the spectatoas.
Sayonara won the utensil by the narrow margin of
17sec. from White Wings. The win was a populhrr
one, for Sayonara has been having the hardest sort
ot luck lately, and usually carries away something:
before she gets home. On this occasion not Sing
bent or broke or burst, and the yacht sailed Herr
best, both on and off the -wind.
* * * *
The Sydney Motor Yacht Club’s raceo on,
Saturday, twice round the Rose Bay course, aa dis-
°/ about 44 miles, brought out the speed of
the hydroplane Peerless. Tu Tu was the actual’ win,-
ner m llmin. 15sec., but Peerless did the journey''
in 9mm. 25sec., and tore through the water i in: great"
style. At the turn she seemed to lift Half the-
water of Port Jackson, and cast it high in* the air,,
out the time she gave away was too great,, and she'
had no chance of beating the slower craft: on the-
handicaps. As it was, she finished fourth, and!
Erinda, placed fifth, actually took 23mim 20sec to-
cover the distance.
* * * *.
• Parramatta River Professional Scull-
ing Club held a regatta on Saturday, at which am
outrigger handicap was the chief event.. George-
Towns and C. Matterson, who had each 30secs„ went:
off at a tremendous pace, and made a neck and neck
race °f it for a mile, where Matterson was a little
W! p ea t ' T h e - n George Towns took command and
led to Putney Point. Hereabouts Charlie Tbwns, the
scratch man, overhauled him. Matterson got into
trouble with some skiffs on the course, and George
towns once more pulled away and got the lead.
At tennyson his brother passed him again, and,
f ln fr< l nt ’ by 2i lengths. A quarter of
a mile from home Matterson put on pace and was
so rapidly gaining on the others that at the finish
length 6 T °" ns was only ]eadin K him by half a
* * * *
i •F’ A ’ J r £ wins: has been apt to mean Ade-
Po , r . t Adelaide rowing ; but country clubs—
Port Pine, Murray Bridge and others—are beginning
to shake things up. The “Bridge” crew hks just
won the 8-oared championship of the State, coming
home quite alone, under remarkable conditions. Haw
mg journeyed to the Port river to row, and finding
their regular cox not available, thev put their 12st
coach at the rudder-lines, and pulled him home tri-
umphantly. That is, in racing talk, they were giving
away at least 4st., or 71b. per man. There is now a
claim that the Murray men shall be considered much
more seriously in choosing inter-State crews.
Miss Fanny Durack had a day out on
Saturday, when, m the Sydney Domain Baths, she
smashed obliterated and destroyed the world’s ladies’
record for a 300yds. swim. Also, she tore it to
pieces and jumped on the ruins. At the end of the
nrst length the championess was 20yds. ahead of
Miss Winnie Kerr, and at the finish she had in-
Xp 8 , uu \ ead , t 0 50yds ' The time was 4min.
}tT’ ™ blch knocks 13 2 : ssec - off the world’s best
time. The previous record was held by the English
swimmer Daisy Curwin. Miss Durack also
pulled off the inter-club diving competition.
Longworth has lost one of his swimming
championships to E. Wickham. At the Fitzroy baths
tr"fllkfn Ur )! ay the 100yds. and threequarter mile Aus-
tralian championships were contested, and the chief
interest centred in the shorter event. A. W. Barry„
who had just put up a new Australian reem-i
Manly, »as expected to do great things andni at
of peop.e fancied the chances of Stedman the v- ty
torian champion. It was a rattling good’rJf ,
at the finish Wickham had the width of a sDla’>, and
something more than Barry, while the miehtv f „ or
worth could only get third. In the longer diJf„ n *'
however, the champion left things in no w i
doubt. Smith kept side by side with LonevLtu
from the fourth lap to the eighth, but his
not sufficient, and the rest of the race was a nron
sion, with Smith pluckily chasing a man he hart
hope of catching. Springfield and Powell L 0
somewhere in sight at the finish, and Page bronort*
up the rear. He was so far behind that he nniv
looked like a paragraph.
When the last English mail left, a benefit
was being worked up for Donald Dinnie, the onw
famous Scotch wrestler and athlete, who made a
splash in Australia in the late ’80’s. The old man t
75, and as poor as Job’s dog.
fr * * *
The visit of the British lawn tennis team
and the interest which surrounded last year’s inter
State matches has put new vim and blood into the
■gentle pastime of sweet maids and afternoon tea as
far at least as Sydney is concerned. The result is
that the club season pushed itself off last Saturday
with 81 teams in three grades—-10 in the first 60-
in the second, and 11 in the third. It is by far’the
biggest entry recorded in the history of Sydney
tennis, and for lack of playing spaces the sport is
almost bursting its waistcoat or camisole or some-
thing. The fact that the first round of matches
produced fairly even games threatens to still further
increase the interest in the gentle craft of the net
and racquet.
After much sorting out and testing, the
Commonwealth rifle team for Bisley (England) has
been completed. The dozen chosen from the thou-
sands of riflemen of Australia are—A. Cutler A
Blacklow, F. Harrison (N.S.W.), S. Edwards’ J
Williams, S. Long (Vic) ; A. Halliday, H. Arm.
strong (Q.), W. Green, H. White (S.' Aus.) • A
Harris (Westralia) ; R. Humphreys (Tas.). ’The
team is strong in marksmen; and providing the
wives and best girls do not put a foot through the
arrangements before May 3, Australia’s rifle-shooting
reputation before the world should be in safe hands*
There is a future Victor Trumper or
-somethfflg attending the Cleveland-street public
school 1 (Sydney) and playing for the Double Bav
Cricket Club. Allen Kippax is his name, and he
has only seen 15 summers, but in the City and
'Suburban competition he has been banging the ball
atfbout to some effect. Here are his scores up to the
jpresent:—18, 25, 68 (not out), 18, 0 (run out)
■SB <not out), 25 (not out), 54 (not out) and 105
!8!l (not out), 8 (not out), 54 (not out) and 105
''(not out) —a total of 583 for seven completed inn-
ings, giving an average of 83.2. In addition he has
knocked up a century or two in school cricket. It
is a remarkable season’s record for a lad of his
wears.
* * * *
Matt. Wells got the referee’s decision on
against Hiighie Mehegan at the National
(Sporting Club, London. From the meagre details to
ffiand at time of goisg to press the decision seems to
lhave been bad, and Mehegan was moved to rise at
tfhe conclusion of the fight and declare from the ring-
side that he considered he had won. Considering
Wiat he was getting ai'l over his opponent in nearly
®11 the rounds, and that at least half of those present
were hooting the refence, it looks as if the boxer’s
iprotest had plenty to justify it. In the 15th round
«ells appears to have scored a dozen right-hand
Tpunches to the head, but Mehegan shortly after-
wards landed a terrific wallop on the nose, and
(evened things up. In the latter stages of the battle
Wells was merely on the defensive, and Mehegan all
*the time in pursuit.


Down and Out s
He Couldn't Box
He knew every man
should learn to box, the
game as you do —but be
kept putting off making
a start, the same as you
are.
Now, don’t postpone
again. Just make a
start, and there’ll be no
need to remind you fur-
ther.
You’ll get such heaps
of enjoyment from your
boxing lessons that you’ll
eagerly look forward to
the next. You’ll revel in
countering a straight left
with a right cross —in
feinting, ducking and
learning the best moves
of world’s champion box-
ers.
1 Teach Boxing
By Post
in such a thorough way
that you’ll quickly be-
come enthusiastic about
your progress, and rap-
idly develop into a skil-
ful Boxer.
An illustrated 32-page
booklet fully explains my
methods, and tells the
fees. Write for a copy, .
sending three penny
stamps for postage.
REG. L.
("Snowy”) BAKER,
157 Belmont Buildings,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney
H
Ĥ
Make
your
own
Cigarette
\tl*S
twice ]
as goocM
CIGARETTE
PAPER
WLST and PWtST
IF NOT PROCURABLE AT YOUR
TOBACCONIST APPLY TO THE AGENTS
Jacobs Bros, li 1 ? 255“ George SI Sydney
L. W. DODGE 8 CO.
(VICTOR TRUMPER & DODGE LTD.)
CRICKET SEASONALITIES.
All Cane Bats, Bound Blades, 5/6
each.
Cane and Rubber Spliced Handles,
8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 13/6, 15/-, 17/6, 20/-
The “ SPECIAL ” Cross Rubber, 22/6.
The VICTOR DRIVER, 25/-
VictorTrumper& Dodge Ltd. Special,
30/-
BALLS-Leather Match, 4/6, 5/-, 5/3,
5/9, 6/3 each.
WlCKETS—BrassTops and Steel Shod,
5/6, 6/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6 per set.
Leg Cuards. Wicket-keeping Caunt-
lets. Batting Cloves, Matting,
Boots and Shoes, Shirts, Sweaters,
Trousers, etc.
Our Illustrated Handbook of Sports
will be posted to you free on receipt of
your application.
317 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Ħ
H
Good, Cheap
At Id. an hour, At-
moslite Air-gas gives
5-60 C.P. brilliant
white lights, restful and
soft to the eyes, and
absolutely clean,
healthful and safe un-
der all conditions.
The plant is auto-
matic and easy to
install. Write for
literature.
Brandt Bros., Ltd. i
236 Pitt St., Sydney.
Elizabeth St.. Melbourne.J
SHELL’
BENZINE
THE CLEAN
AND
POWERFUL SPIRIT
FOR ALL MOTORS
POLO
■
J\ C^acKlh^
Jjocd
fdufn,
The Season is
here, and Polo
Players want
to know where
best to get
their require-
ments. For
the last 12
years we, as
C.H.Walther
8 Co.,
have special-
ised in this
sport and have
supplied
saddles to the
special orders
Messrs. Carvan. White. Mackay, Roberts,
Campbell and Hordern.
Write for our NEW POLO BOOK, TO-DAY,
Post Free to any address.
N.B.—Large Consignment of INDIAN
POLO STICKS, Just Landing.
Edward Butler §S ons Ltd.
THE POLO SPECIALISTS,
257 GEORGE STREET, SIDNEY.
Also at Brisbane & Warwick, Q.
Ĥ
CURE FOR PILES
Murphy’s Pile Pill* act as a healing balm to the irritated
membranes, give new life to the deadened blood vessels,
diminish all swelling, and cure all forms of Piles, internal
or external, and no matter how severe; painlessly, speedily
and without interruption of daily duties. They are com-
pounded from purest herbs, non-aperient, and can be taken
with perfect safety by all.
The price of Andrew Murphy’s Pile Pills is 3/- per box.
They are sold by all chemists and storekeepers, or direct from
the SOLE PROPRIETORS: ANDREW MURPHY, LTD.,
Dept. 8., 109 Regent Street, Sydney.
Murphy’s Pile Pills
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
L. & F. CO., LIMITED.
PIT
Secure Highest Market Rates
for all consignments of Wool,
Wheat, Hides, Skins and Tallow
entrusted to them and render
returns promptly.
Ħ
BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
H
Distinctive 8 Dressy
Shoes for Men.
The moment you see a Rigney Shoe you are impressed
with its perfect finish —smart shape, and distinctive
appearance.
The long serviceability of Rigney Shoes attest their high
quality materials, and good workmanship.
We here illustrate one of Rigney’s distinctive styles in a
Box Calf Bal., stout soles, splendidly finished.
Prices: 15|6,186,22/6,25/-
POSTAGE 9d. EXTRA.
Write for a Copy of our Catalogue .
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.,
“ The Men's Exclusive High-grade Shoe Stores,"
505 GEORGE ST., and 179 a PITT ST„ SYDNEY.
How these Labor apostles love each other
in Maoriland. Not long ago the local
Worker had occasion to address a few re-
marks concerning the Waihi strike to one
Thomas Walsh, publisher of the Voice of
Labor, and this is how it went about it:—
We say that in the Australasian Labor party there
is not on record an incident so traitorous or so das-
tardly. This Walsh, in the sacred name of the
Labor party—fool and knave b6th—has been asso-
ciated with an official organ rotten to the core, and
time and again has wantonly and wickedly spoken
as a cred« dialled Labor representative in a way
that in a Russian movement would see him hanged,
and in a movement anywhere else than Maoriland
would see him drummed out as worse than Judas.
This kind of jarred Thomas, and he brought
a libel action, in which he demanded a solace
of £450. The jury, however, reckoned the
language was worth only £5O.
The bounding Kink O’Malley, last week,
made a bid for the late Bent’s vituperative
waistcoat by diagnosing the Liberal party
as “a cross between a city guinea-pig and a
country blowfly.” Kink himself baffles classi-
fication, but he is most often off
spring of a hen’s false alarm and a scare-
head.
In the gentle art of cadge, the Oldest In-
habitant of Sydney Domain could sit at the
feet of the bosses of the Chapzander mis-
sionary troupe. Among other things, these
folk have books to sell; and “having come
practically to the close” of their Australian
drumming tour, they find some stock still on
hand. So they have just issued an appeal
in Melbourne for £2OO to cover the cost of
unloading the unsold stock on to the pris-
oners and hospital patients of Australia.
OUNLOP
GROOVED.
BEST
FOR
CARS
ml
C Si
BEST
FOR
HOTOR
CYCLES
T
Wl
RUBBER
STUDDED.
[DUNLOP
f MOTOR TYRES
have proved themselves the most Reliable
and Economical for Cars and Motor
Cycles. The strength of Casing, Quality
of Wearing Tread, and thorough work-
manship in these big mileage Tyres
ensures you getting the BEST SERVICE
at the MINIMUM COST.
LIST POSTED ON APPLICATION.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane,


25/-.
Ladies’ Solid Silver Hunting
Keyless Lever, f-Plate, full
Jewelled, patent adjusted Bal-
ance, 25/-; extra jewelled, 30/;
solid Gold, £3, £4, £5, £6,
£7/10/, £lO.
9ct Gold SCROLL BROOCH, set
Amethyst.
25/--
9ct Gold, set Pearls and Peridot,
Amethyst or Turquoise.
20/-.
25/-,
/
%
Gent’s Nickel Open-Face Keyless Lever,
Patent adjusted Balance, non-magnetic
Time Spring, dust and waterproof Cases,
20/-; higher Grade, 25/, 30/-. Kept in
free repair for 1 year.
9ct Gold, 3-Bar BROOCH, set Pearls and Ruby
or Sapphire; 15ct Gold, £2.
oct Gold,
Stones.
32/6-
set Pearls and Red <
Set Pearls and Corals,
r Green
40/-.
• 1
35/--
9ct Gold Fancy BRACELET, strong Safety Chain
attached.
HI!
i—FOR—
12/0
9ct Gold, set Pearls
and Red or Blue
Stones.
The Newest, Loveliest Jewellery
in the most exclusive designs and out of the way ideas.
Out New Jewellery Catalog is free, and is full of just
such conceptions. May we send you a copy? It is free.
kl ‘
i~ 2
9ct Gold, Half-round BRACELET
Chain, £2, £2/10/-, £3; 15ct’
£5.
richly
Gold,
chased, Safety
£4, £4/10/,
8/6.
Ort Gold, set Pearls
and Ked or Blui
Stones.
oct Gold, BAND
RING, 7/6, 10/;
15c t Gold,
heavier, 25/; 18ct
Gold, 25/-;
heavier, 35/-.
9ct Gold, set Pearls
and Amethysts or
Red Stones.
18ct Gold, pure
double-cut Dia-
mond Cluster.
35/-.
Presentation LINKS, Solid
Gold, Hand-made, richly
engraved, any Initials.
Extra quality Gold, 50/;
18ct Gold, £3.
20/-.
9ct Gold LOCK-
ET, Initials free.
18ct Gold, set
3 pure Double-
cut Diamand*.
CATALOG FREE.
£ .">•
18ct Gold, set
Diamonds. With
Rubies or Sap-
phires, £3/10/-
9ct. Gold, 5/6
9ct. Gold, 7/6
r
9ct. Gold, 10 -
15ct. Gold, 15/-
18ct. Gold, 20/-
15ct. Gold, 25/-
18ct. Gold, 30/-
A. SAUNDERS
HAPPY WEDDING
RINGS.
18ct. Gold, 40/-
15ct. Gold, 40/-
18ct. Gold, 50/-
807-817 GEORGE ST.,
k SYDNEY. A
9ct GOLD GENT’S
RING, set Garnet.
9ct Gold, set Pearls
and Garnets.
18ct Gold, set
4 Diamonds and
lied or Blue
' Stones.
POST FREE.
We send all
Jewellery to auy
dress anywhere.
our
ad-
9et Gold LINKS, richly
Engraved.
W'«
on
£ 5
Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding WATCH BRACE-
LET, Full Jewelled, Lever Movement, accurate, re-
liable. Extra Jewelled, £5/10/, £6/10/.
17/(>-
9ct Gold SEAL
PENDANT.
9ct Solid Gold WATCH ALBERT, £2/10, £3, £3/10/, £4, £4/10/, £5 £5/10/
£7/10, £B/10/, £lO, £l2/10; ISct Gold, £7/10/, £lO, £l5, £2O. Gold-filled
Solid Silver, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/, 12/6.
£6; 15ct, £5/10/, £6/10/,
DOUBLE ALBERT, 20/, 25/ ;
8/6.
10/-
s
&J
Ladies’ Black Open-face Key-
less WATCH, strong, ac-
curate, 8/6. Higher grade,
10/, 12/6, 15/-; Silver, 20/,
25/, 30/-; Solid Gold, £2.
Oct Gold, set Pearls and Coloured
Stones; loct Gold, 35/.
12/6.
9ct Gold, set Pearls and Peridot, Tur-
quoise or Amethyst.
40/-
50/-
m*/’
met
«
Gent’s Solid Silver Hunting Keyless
Lever, Jewelled, non-magnetic, accurate,
reliable, 40/-; extra Jewelled, 50/-.
Gold-cased, 55/. Solid Gold, £6/10/-,
£7/10/-, £lO..
30/ •
9ct Gold, set Pearls and Amethyst.
15ct Gold NECKLACE, Set pure
double-cut Diamonds and Green or
Pink Tourmalines or Aquamarines,
Rubies, or Peridots.
A. SAUNDERS,
807-817 QEORQE STREET (opp. Railway station),
SYDNEY.
30/ •
9ct Gold Half-round PLAIN BRACELET, strong Safety
Chain attached. ■


BARNET GLASS
FMTB
Ĥ
See you get the famous BARNET
GLASS RUBBER HEELS-they’ve
a “ life ” and springiness peculiarly
their own.
BARNET GLASS
RUBBER CO. LTD.,
231 Clarence Street. Sydney.
AND ALL STATES.
H
SERVICEABLE
STOCK SAPDLES.
When selecting a Stock Saddle you natur-
ally want to know if the saddle is the correct
shape and properly made.
We have pleasure in recommending our
Saddles because they are made under per-
sonal supervision. The leather we carefully
prepare at our own tanneries. The mount
mgs are A 1 quality. Our Saddles are the
correct shape and comfortable to ride in, and
they are made to give long-wearing service.
THIS SADDLE is built on our Special
Tree, with sin. knee pads, with extended
facings and solid leather point to panel.
Mounted with split girth, crupper, surcingle,
4-bar irons and stout stirrup leathers.
£5 15s.
L. UHL & SONS, Ltd.,
Petrie Bight, Brisbane.
Great Writers —
Charles Dickens,
Born 1812, died 1870.
K :
m
<&
The Greatest of all Writers is
the pen that fills itself in a flash
and never leaks —
ONOTO
Prices from 12/- each.
Box 1281, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
4 s # n ft j«ta m mmwA
»rs±s?fc
Ħ
TO THE
RISBAHECiip
D°™ y°u hear the call of the
? Brisbane in June, the first
run is P 6ek r f wh c ich the Bris bane Cup is
green h d T ° aving palms and rich,
fust irlen? a re planta^ns - The climate is
r!l li • —genial and warm, while
. i°P e southern cities are shivering in the
cold and slush of winter.
Arrange to make the trip now. It will
be a glorious carnival time for you. Write
for full particulars to
C. DYSON-KOLLAND,
.
Sec. Q.T.C.,
Creek Stree‘,
BRISBANE.
HORSE GAGS.
SHARPE’S GAGS are made from American design, in Sheffield of Steel
PLATES and IC HRIDLE ed ’ COm P lete with TWO PAIRS of
Are the most PRACTICAL, STRONGEST
the market. ’
and DURABLE GAGS on
Can be released by hand when
horses jaws are pressing the
plates.
Afford ample exposure for EX-
AMINATIONS and Operations.
Satisfaction or Money Back.
WRITE FOR KNIFE & VET. LIST.
H
1
SHARPE 8 SHARPE,
40 / Q Post Free.
18 Bridge Street
SYDNEY.
The "Fx«R” Watches
“Are the MOST EXTRAORDINARY
WATCHES OF THE AGE.”
They are f-plate levers.
They have brequet one-coil balance springs.
They have 15 jewels.
They have compensated and adjusted balances.
They have jewel ruby rollers.
They are especially made to stand rough riding and
knocking about, and go with profound accuracy.
They are guaranteed for 15 years, and kept in order
(breakages excepted) free of charge for 2 years.
These watches are the best value ever offered in any
land, to any people.
Stocked in every style of case that is made.
Write for Special Watch Catalogue.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
Size Open-
Faced Oxi-
dised Steel
Watch, with
15 jewels,
H
With 7
jewels,
THE BEST STOHIES written in Australia appear in THE
LONE HAND each month. Price Sixpence.
Ĥ
THE
TOP-NOTCH
OF SCOTCH
ciisln
TtfySsonjsiy
If
qua
you aim to be ‘‘dead on the jack” when
ng the fl owing “bowl,” try without
“bias” “King George IV” and “touch”
the finest whisky the world produces.
“King George IV” is “top notch” in
il th e essentials of a high grade
w'hisky great age —fine bouquet
—rounded mellowness —and
perfect purity.
A TOP-NOTCH SHOT
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
'lhe prices in this list are those at which the
various boohs are published in London. The
pricis m parentheses are those at which the
books are supplied by retail booksellers in Vic-
toria, New South Wales and South Australia.
I ostuye IS extra, at the rale of 2d. per pound
within the Australian Commonwealth.
ACROSS AUSTRALIA. By BALD-
WIN SPENCER, C.M.G., M.A.,
p .K.S., Professor of Biology in Mel-
bourne University, and F. F. Gillen,
Special Magistrate and Sub-Protector
Aborigines for South Australia.
With colored and other illustrations
and Maps. In 2 vols., Bvo, 21s. net
(25 s.)
. PA (t L Mall Gazette.— “ Professor Spencer and
Mr. Gillen have written a work which is a
classic of its kind, and will live to find a place
beside the travel-books of Darwin, Wallace, and
Dates, and other great writers who have pen-
earp 1 ” s^ran S e places and peoples of the
AN AUSTRALIAN NATIVE’S
® N1)PO I N T. Addresses by
WILL. J. SOWDEN, Editor of the
Register, Adelaide, Ex-Chief Presi-
dent of the Australian Natives’ Asso-
ciation, etc. Extra crown Bvo. ss.
net. (Gs.)
The Outlook. —“ Those who are interested,
on sentimental or other grounds, in the future
of the Australian Commonwealth, and the ideals
of its citizens, will do well to read what Mr.
feowden has to say on the topics of education,
religious teaching, military and naval matters,
and the Press.”
THE BELIEF IN IMMORTALITY
AND THE WORSHIP OF THE
DEAD. By J. G. FRAZER, D.C.L.,
LL.D., Litt.D. Vol. I. The Belief
among the Aborigines of Australia,
the Torres Straits Islands, New
Guinea and Melanesia. The Gifford
Lectures, St. Andrew’s, 1911-1912.
8 vo.
PRINCIPLES OF AUSTRALIAN
AGRICULTURE. By W. CATTON
GRASBY, F.L.S., Lecturer in Agri-
culture and Fruit Growing, Perth
Technical School; Commissioner for
South Australian Government to Re-
port on Fruitgrowing Industries of
the Mediterranean, etc. Fully illus-
trated. Crown Bvo. 4s. 6d.
The British Australasian. — “ Mr. Grasby
has carried out the work he has here under-
taken with entire success. His work is a model
of what such a text-book should be. Eminently
practical in its suggestions, it possesses a prac-
t cality due not merely to empirical experience,
but resting on a solid scientific basis, and but-
tressed with the result of actual tests.”
SOCIALISM FROM THE CHRIS-
TIAN STANDPOINT. By Father
BERNARD VAUGHAN, S.J. Crown
Bvo. 6s. 6d. net.
THE BUSINESS MAN’S TRADE &
INDUSTRIAL MAP OF THE
WORLD. Edited by BEN H.
MORGAN, F.R.S.S., F.R.C.1., Trade
Commissioner to Australia and New
Zealand, 1908. Size, 60 by 431 inches.
Cloth and Spring Roller, 50s. net.
(605.) Cloth, Mahogany Rollers and
Varnished, 31s. net. (375. 6d.) Cloth,
to fold in Box Case, 21s. net. (255.)
Rollers and Varnished, 21s. net.
A MAP OF THE WORLD ON MER-
CATOR’S PROJECTION. Speci-
ally designed for Australasian
Schools, showing AUSTRALIA as
the centre of the Universe. Size, 50
x 42 inches. Mounted on Cloth Rol-
lers and Varnished, 12s.
ATLAS FOR AUSTRALASIAN
SCHOOLS. Physical and Political.
Size, 12 xlO inches. 36 Maps. Is.
6d.
MACMILLAN S Sevenpenny Scries.
NEW VOLUMES.
Pott Bvo. Cloth gilt. With Frontis-
piece. 7d. net (9d.) each.
RICHARD CARVEL. By WIN-
STON CHURCHILL.
THE VIRGINIAN. By OWEN
WISTER.
A VILLAGE TRAGEDY. By MAR-
GARET L. WOODS.
Send for Complete list of SEVEN-
PENNY SERIES, and POPULAR Is.
BOOKS (about 160 vols.).
COLONIAL LIBRARY
Paper Covers, 2s. 6d.; Cloth Boards, 3s. 6d. each.
NEW VOLUMES.
623. THE LORE OF PROSERPINE.
By MAURICE HEWLETT, Au-
thor of “The Forest Lovers,” etc.
624. THE MATING OF LYDIA. By
Mrs. HUMPHRY WARD, Au-
thor of “Robert Elsmere,” etc.
625. A NECESSITY OF LTFE, and
other Stories. By BETTY VAN
DER GOES.
610. VAN CLEEVE. By MARY S.
WATTS, Author of “Nathan
Burke,” etc.
621. EDWARD FAIRLIE FRANK-
FORT, or Politics Among the
People. By Sir lIENkY
WRIXON, K.C., Author of “So-
cialism : Being Notes on a Political
Tour, etc.”
Globe. —“Sir Henry Wrixon has written an
able and carefully thought-out book, and we'
heartily agree with him in his theory, which he
puts into practice, that the best friend of De-
mocracy, as of any other form of government,
is he who calls attention with truth and sin-
cerity to those evils which may follow in its
train.” '■
615. THEREEF. By EDITH
WHARTON, Author of “The
House of Mirth,” etc.
Times. —“Its imaginative beauty, its econ-
omy, its serene certainty of handling—its whole
art and craft, will be as welcome as they are
familiar to the reader of The House of Mirth
and of Ethan Frome.”
A Complete Catalogue of MacMillan’s Colonial
Library will be sent on application.
Macmillan & Co. Ltd.
LONDON and MELBOURNE 7 .


COUGH gone
SCOTTS
EMULSION
CHEAPEST in the END.I i
The strength-restoring pow-
ers of Scott’s Emulsion are
proved not by months but
by 37 years stringent tests |
and proved results.
All throat and chest
complaints
—all weaknesses due to poor
nutrition are banished by
this pure,palatable emulsion.
This is only one of
thousands of letters:
“ After taking the contents of one
bottle of Scott’s Emulsion, my cough
is quite gone. My doctor recommended
Scott’s Emulsion and stated as his
opinion that it was the best prepara-
tion of its kind, by far the cheapest in
the end. It has been very fully borne
out in my own case. Mr. P. J. Hart,
Heidelberg Road, Alphington, Mel-
bourne, Victoria. 11.5.11.
Observe, the doctor said SCOTT’S
Emulsion, not an imitation or substi-
tute. Therefore, do not ask merely
for emulsion; ASK FOR SCOTT’S
Emulsion and see the Trade Mark. M
Ħ
If the emutsion you buy does
not bear this trade mark, it
is not SCOTT’S. Therefore,
see the mark before you buy
—a guarantee of SCO7'T
purity and genuineness.
OF ALL CHEMISTS &
MEDICINE DEALERS.
ANTINEU RASTH I N
TREATMENT OF *
NERVOUS AND WASTING DISEASES.
The wonderful properties of Antineurasthin (Leci-
thin in an absolutely pure form) for successfully
treating all nerve maladies, Dyspepsia, Anaemia,
Rheumatism, etc., and imparting permanent mental
and nerve force, reflect the latest and most important
achievements in medical science.
One of the most important of the wonderful re-
sults obtained by this treatment is that not alone
does it build up the nervous system by feeding the
brain and nerve-cells with their natural food ele-
ment, but on account of its beneficial action upon
the process of nutrition and upon the blood, the
whole general health shows prompt improvement,
particularly in wasting diseases.
A FREE TRIAL.
In order that the worth of Antineurasthin may be
tested, a sample supply, together with a treatise on
nervous maladies, will be forwarded to any address
in Australia on receipt of 2d. in stamps to cover
postage by the wholesale representative, H. A. God-
dard, No. 3 Eden’s Buildings, George Street, Bris-
bane; or Branches: 194 Vickery’s Chambers, 82 Pitt
Street, Svdnev; 9-15 Safe Deposit Buildings, Queen
Street, Melbourne; 3 Ellershaw's Buildings, Cliff
Street, Fremantle ; 213 Watson’s Buildings, Wellesley
Street. East Auckland.
Serial No. 810.—Guaranteed under the Pure Foods
Act of New South Wales by H. A. Goddard, Sydney,
to contain not less than 10 per cent. Pure Lecithin.
No. 810. [2
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE.
m.
Made in England. Perfectly
harmless, indetectable,
and guaranteed free
from Nitrate of
Silver and Lead
Salts.
IN VARIOUS
SHADES Raven
Black, Black,
Brown, Light or
Oolden Brown,
Blonde, Chestnut
and Auburn
Prloe 3/6, posted 3/11
Directions with every
bottle.
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 The Block Arcade, Collins St., Melbourne
STOP coughing, stop it.
No need of it, not
you can buy a bottle of Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral. Used for 75
years. Sold in three sizes.
4 CORRESPONDENT writes: “There is
always one feature in The Lone
Hand each month that is alone worth the
price charged for the whole number.” The
price of The Lone Hand is 6d.
APENTA
NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Obtainable all Chemists.
Rowlands
Macassar
Oil
FOR THE HAIR.
Preserves, Beautifies. Restores it. Closely
resembles the natural oil in the hair,
which nature provides for its preservation.
No other article possesses this property.
Without it the hair becomes dry, thin, and
withered. Poor hair mars the effect of
a beautiful face. Good hair adds charm
and interest to a plain one; every Toilet
Table should possess this oil.
LADIES should always use it for their
own Hair and for their Children’s Hair
as it lays the foundation of a luxuriant
growth. Golden Colour for fair hair.
Of Stores, Chemists, and ROWLAND’S,
67, Hatton Garden, London. Avoid
cheap worthless imitations; buy only
Rowland’s.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant-
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
HIMROD'S
ASTHMA POWDER
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF. 1
No matter what your Respiratory 1
Organs may be suffering from—
whether Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough— you will
find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
H
Ĥ
A Trial Will
Convince You
that Pebeco Tooth Paste is different from, and better than,
ordinary dentifrices. Are you sure you derive from your
present dentifrice the greatest possible benefit? The fact
that dentists and doctors have recommended Pebeco for 20
years is a guarantee of its real worth. You yourself will
recognise its excellent properties if you try it.
OBTAINABLE ALL CHEMISTS.
Trial Tube with useful Book free for three penny stamps,
on application to the Sole Agent:—
G. ARNOLD
(Dept. M), 6 O’Connell Street,
(WHOLESALE ONLY).
Sydney
[2
The Australian
Magazine.
THE LONE HAND
The National
Honthly, 6d.
Beauty’s Favourite,
The article r/hich excels all others
in improving the beauty of the sKin
is naturally and deservedly beauty’s
favourite. This has been the
acknowledged and honoured
position held by Pears’ Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and has
maintained that position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by the
possession of those special emollient
properties which soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to the
skin. No other soap possesses
th ese qualities in such a pre*
eminent degree as
EARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on MSS. No liability is
undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted,
whether sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will
be returned unless stamps accompany.
Bosco Blithers: “Myola,” so far as The
Bulletin knows, isn’t aboriginal, and has no mean-
ing whatever. It is one of the hundreds of bogus
names with which humorists take in the unwary. If
you analyse it and think over it carefully- it may
strike you as foolish English slightly disguised. A
similar case was “Biladamz,” a beautiful poetic term
meaning “Beside blue waters.” The man who put
this name on his house after,wards explained that it
was simply “Bill' Adams,” and he invented it be-
cause the banal person next door called his place
“Waterloo.”. .. .Fred 0. M.: Every winter there are
frozen whalers and dod-fishers and such-like folk, who
pass out as a matter of ordinary business, leaving no
thrilling “messages” behind them, and without the
slightest hope that anybody will see their relatives
“properly provided for.” Try to get the perspective
of the affair... .Curlew: The tough wood argument
has been battened down' with i.2in. spikes. Can only
suggest on the evidence' forwarded that your hard
tree would be a commercial success if it were used
to make false teeth. Ordinary ivory, besides being
expensive, wears out too soon, and granite chips....
Boswell: Why waste paper and ink on all that trash?
The one prominent democratic barrister was shut out
on the strength of a tale about his bad health. His
health is as good as yours—perhaps better. Then the
choice lay mainly between conservative barristers
with a reputation for knowing the law
thoroughly, and conservative barristers with no
such reputation. And the jobs went to
the barristers with the small reputation. .. .
Comduek: Gohannas and the like are non-venomous i;
hut as they don’t clean their teeth their bite isn t
healthy J. Smith: Does a child think before the
age of five. Certainly. It doesn’t think the gigantic
thoughts of the philosopher or scientist of 45, but it
thinks. For instance, it thinks medicine is beastly
at an earlier age than five.... Wet Bulb: Profound
meteorological dissertation to hand. .. .H.W.C.: This
is a poor market for bushranger yarns. .. .A Militant
Suffragette: Dunno about London houses, but in the
poor quarters of Glasgow and Edinburgh the gas-
fittings go with the house. Curiously enough the
kitchen grate doesn’t —or didn’t —and the new tenant
arrives dragging that piece of ironmongery along
with him James C.: Something of the kind .was
needed to commemorate the splendid spectacle. We
have taken the liberty of christening it for you:—
LINES ON SEEING WATT WEEP.
We jumped on bord a melbourne Tram .
Which brought us to the water near
Where William Wat had sought to jam
On bord the deck of the Morea
Just then the engine whisteled well
A signal for his friends apart
From those who did in melbourne tell
That he must now for London start
Their stood the premier galy drest
For he was bent on buisness more
Than all the men who now confest
That every premier sailed before
■ And then we were with tears, bereft
For we had felt the pain also
As we at home to work was left
That he might now to london go
And when that ship to oceion wave
Had turned to diner Billoes plough
Than all the tears we had to save
Which williams eyes was shedding now
He said in tears that downward rained
Upon the yard rail of the poop
If george ou'r king his friendship gained
He would to knight hood proudly stoop
Then in the murk and through the haze
When saddness silenced every lunge
Till one had said we sing the praise
Our Willey’s boat to England swung.
(Note. —At this stage, the lino, man’s feelings over-
came him. May print the rest when Watt returns.)..
Thomas C.: The bagpipes have been carefully mur-
dered with one of Hop’s barbed spears. Their dying
shriek was horrible Concertina: Poem about 5 the
plains contains so many queries that it reads'like an
examination paper. You might have saved labor by
tabulating it this way:—
Q. 1. ’Ave yer seen th’plains in springtime, when all the
earth is green ?
Q. 2. ~ ~ „ ~ ~ summer, when the land
is burnt an’ dry?
Q. 3. „ ~ ~ ~ ~ floodtime when the
, rivers all are up ? (
Q. 4. ~ ~ „ ~ at night time when the
stars are over’ead ?
Then there are the other queries about the., wind,
dying sheep, suicide longings, moonrise, homestead
lights and other matters. Really a poet should not
set out to wring information out of his reader. A
faint hostility is the only emotion aroused... Trever:
Oh, d — n! Mary B.: Four lines only of —
THE SACRIFICE.
A little while and I would watch alone;
A little while, or longer, it may be;
Betwixt a-sleeping and a-waking gone—
And we shall meet —so, comrades, let it be.
Why put that theatrical farewell speech into the
mouth of the undemonstrative Englishman who
walked out into the snow?. .. .Apex: Artless-sort
of story. Resembles the simple village maiden on a
Sunday afternoon, with her golden hair hanging down
her back and several front teeth missing W. 1.8.:
Your brief poem about the successful man and the
unsuccessful wretch contains one splendid line —“One
swells at Fortune’s recognition.” Yes, but the un-
poetical world bluntly says, “Brown’s fat and pros-
perous these days.” Beastly word that “fat”—and
“stout” isn’t much better... Lou: The dog’s orphan-
age and widowage par. disposed of that item. Cannot
admit your doggerel. .. .L.M.D.: It fails honorably.
The idea is small and the treatment is not strong
enough to carry it An Unknown Correspondent:
“We shall Meet” and “A Prophet” both condemned.
You forgot to sign the MS. Or perhaps you haven’t
got a name and don’t live anywhere?. .. .A.R.: If
you are young and hopeful, as you say, keep on
plugging. Work is very crude, but there are gleams.
Try shorter lines, be patient when you can, and
legible always. You have the Religious Editor’s
official blessing. Call again in 10 years’ time N.S.
(Q.) : It rushes around and is heavily impressive, but
doesn’t arrive anywhere in particular... .J.S.M.: If
she exists, send it to her. If she doesn’t exist, burn
it.... Tom A.: It bumps hard and often. (P.S. —It
bumped last on the floor of the basket)... . .C.H.H.:
Pompous stodge. . .M.C.(W.A.) : the treatment doesn’t
compensate for the extreme old age of the idea....
R. : Too fragmentary... .Bert R.: Fond adventures
too young. No stamp enclosed for returnß.A'.T.:
Poems very windy. Did you write them with a
bicycle pump? S.K.C.: It rushes along like a
startled cat. .. .Jonquil: Mechanical humor. Don’t
call. Your best plan is to try and imitate your own
accepted stuff. .. .Flora M,: Good idea in “Sky,” But
the handling is amateurish. . . Pat F.: There are points
about the “White Souled Policeman,” but he is not
for publication.... Primus: Clearly-typed blither... .
K.1.K.: A noise on paper W.C.F.: Suggests
spiritual ballooning in a high wind. .. . A.J.S.: He
still leads the field.... Chevalier D.: The beast or
reptile is too long and dull. ... Veroon: We loathe
the whole tribe of cheap parodies... .Quanda: Yes,
yes; but what do you propose?. .. .Punica: If only
the verse were as good as the sentiment 1... .Water-
side : On vour say-so you ask us to print a yarn
which would cost us at least, £5OOO if we couldn’t
prove it up to the hilt.... Austral: It doesn’t follow
because Keir Hardie told you there was no Socialism
in Australia that there is none. Keir Hardie’s
Socialism mostly consists of crying for the moon.
The more practical Australian is content to take the
Socialistic knife and carve off a helping of cheese. ..
F.E.A.: “I have a fairly thick hide, and should
rather enjoy than otherwise any comment you may
deem advisable.” Rejected in dead cilence, you
cheerful hippopotamus !. . . .W.8.W.: You must apolo-
gise "to Bret Harte elsew'here.


Spare your Spares!
too late to spare, when all is spent.” —PROVERB.
Ħ
H
Urdess you protect vour spares from sun, rain, friction, and sudden
changes in temperature—so frequent in this country —they will be rendered
worthless, even before the occasion for using them arises.
A cover should never be left uncovered—in wet weather or in dry. It
stands to reason that a tyre which is constantly exposed to rain or even damp
must soon begin to deteriorate. Strong sunlight is equally injurious, causing
the best of rubber to harden, grow brittle, and lose its resiliency.
Use the
Michelin Waterproof Wrapper,
which effectually protects tire cover, and can be quickly removed at will.
ANZ. I,
To be obtained from
all the Leading Garages.
THE LONE HAND” for Good Stories and Bright Articles.
Price 6d
Ĥ
Patent Superheated Steam
Semi-Portable Locomobile
WOLF Tandem Compound Condensing Superheated
Steam Locomobiles, each 215-320 h.p.
The Coal Con-
sumption of
Standard Engine
is 0*78911). per
B.H.P. per hour
—the World’s
Record in
Economy.
•’-S'i
mi
2M
S f.
a
’ r %££
9g
fffip
"4»J
Official Test of a WOLF 800 h.p. Compound Condensing
Superheated Steam Locomobile.
v'\
- nf these p, an ts has been in use for over 50 YEARS, and one in the Commonwealth
° has been working for over 20 YEARS, both still giving excellent results.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue to the Australian Representatives
HAES & EGGERS LTD^
163 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.


Do You Wish to Im-
prove Your Complexion,
Hands or Hair?
If you wish a skin clear
of pimples, blackheads and
other annoying eruptions,
hands soft and white, hair
live and glossy, and scalp
free from dandruff and itch-
ing, begin today the regular
use of Cuticura Soap for the
toilet, bath and shampoo,
assisted by an occasional
light application of Cuticura
Ointment. No other method
is so agreeable, so often
effective and so economical
in treating poor complex-
ions, red, rough hands, and
dry, thin and falling hair.
Cuticura Soap and Oint-
ment have been sold through-
out the world for more than
a generation, but to those
wishing to try them with-
out cost, a liberal sample
of each will be sent free
with 32-p. book on the care
and treatment of the skin
andhair. Address ‘Cuticura/
Dept. M, Sydney, N. S. W.
An Interesting
Experiment.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey
Hairs make, just lay a piece of paper over each of
the two halves of the above portrait. The Grey
“ half” will then be seen to have the appearance
of 45 years of age, whereas the other half looks
only 30. Dr. B. Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut
Stain will make all those years of difference if you
are grey or prematurely grey. It is perfectly
harmless, easy to apply, and will quickly restore
the hair to the natural shade of youth, or younger
years.
Dr. B. Allen’s cu.s.a.)
Mexican
Walnut Stain
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suit-
able for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or
Moustache. None genuine without the signature
of —Alfred Ardley (Registered in the Patents
Office of the Commonwealth).
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
rgAHE Australian Magazine. THE LONE
I HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6a.
Clogged-Up Liver
Causes Headache
It’s a foolish proceeding to suffer from
constipation, sick headache, biliousness,
dizziness, indigestion and
kindred ailments when
CARTER’S LITTLE
LIVER PILLS will
end all misery in
a few hours.
Purely vege-
table. Act
gently on
liver and
bowels.
Ħ
Carters
■ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
Small Pill. Small Dose, Small Price,
The GENUINE must bear signature
GROW HAIR
A Simple, Safe and Reliable Way that Produces Surprising Results.
NEW PREPARATION CAUSES BIG STIR AMONG HAIR SPECIALISTS.
H
Ĥ
Ħ
H
The above clearlv shows Results from a Short Course of my True Hair-Growing Compound.
10,000 FREE TRIAL BOXES.
Those who are troubled with falling hair, dandruff,
baldness, itching scalp, etc., know full well the
humiliation that they cause. There is no need, how-
ever, of such conditions. These troubles can be
quickly overcome by my True Hair Grower.
I am not an advertising quack, but am a business
man. My hair began to grow thin about the time
1 reached the age of thirty. When I had reached the
age of thirty-five the top of my head was quite bald.
I had considerable pride, and sought for something
to cause renewed growth. I invested in every pre-
paration that I could see or hear of, and here let me
say that not only did I try all the English so-called
restorers, but those of Continental Europe. I also
visited specialists. My experimenting cost me many
sovereigns and considerable time —yet the hairs came
not. I had given up the idea of ever growing hair
again. One afternoon, while enjoying a brief bu>i-
ness respite by an Alpine trip, I fell in with an old
collegiate chemist, whose hair was particularly plen-
tiful. I jokingly remarked that I wished he could
spare some of his hair for my benefit. This lead him
to tell me that he understood the human hair as well
as a good dentist understands teeth. He wrote out a
formula, and suggested that I have a quantitv of the
compound prepared. I did this a few days later, i
was astonished to see the hair coming forth after
several applications, and within six weeks my head
was covered by a firm, yet soft, black growth of hair.
Since then the hair on my head has been as luxuriant
as when in my school days. Having arranged for
the legal right to do so, 1 have for some time been
privately selling this marvellous hair-growing com-
pound. I hold over one thousand letters from people
who have actually grown new hair through the
medium of my true hair grower. I do not pretend
to say it is the only hair grower in the world —I am
not interested in decrying others —but I do assert
that it is the most reliable, and in the end by far the
cheapest.
Baldness, Dandruff, Itching, etc.,
Free Trial Coupon.
Cut out this Coupon and send with 3 stamps
to cover postage, etc., and I will immediately
post a large trial box of my True Hair Grower.
John Graven Burleigh, Dept. 7, 107 Castlereagh
Sr root, Svdnev. :
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Cenuinm
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
1/IJ, 2/9 & 4/b. Made in England.
tfltlcrcdf*
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks of
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
•he cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acts like a charm In
DIARR HCEA and simple DYSENTERY.
Nothing can surpass
HORROCKSES’
SHEETINGS for
LATEST VICTORY
GRAND PRIZE
BRUSSELS
EXnIBITION, 1910
durability
When Buying see HORROCK.SES’ name on
Face-plait, and decline all substitutes.
Sold by all Fi-st-Class Drapers and
Storekeepers.
The “Swan-Safety'’ is simpler and more reliable than any
other pen made; may be carried in any position, in any pocket,
handbag or trunk, without fear of leakage ; with the “ladder”
feed, erratic working is out of the question; the nib is the
product of over 60 years’ experience: the holder is beautifully
balanced and holds a good supply of ink.
hSWA
Sold by all j
Stationers. \
Catalogue Free on Request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London, W.C.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only):
J. A. BURKE, 15 Waltham Building, 24 Bond St., Sydney.
Ĥ
■viSSS
>
Benger’s Food is specially pre-
pared to build up the weakened
digestive system, and to pro-
mote a high state of bodily
nutrition while doing so.
It is the only food enabling rest and regulated
exercise to be given to the digestive functions.
Benger’s is not a predigested food, nor does
it contain dried milk. It is made with fresh milk,
and forms a dainty and delicious cream with a
delicate biscuit flavour. Patients never tire of
Ħ
but, on the contrary, continue to enjoy it.
Every householder should possess a copy of “ BENGER'S FOOD,
AND HOW TO USE IT—FOR INFANTS. INVALIDS. AND THE
AGED." Post Fr e from :
BEHOSR’S FOOD, Ltd., Otter Work*, MANCHESTER, ENO. /
117, PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
# N - Kenner's Food is sol' in ti sbv Frit" is'*, etc., everywhere.
Food
Business, Robbery, etc.
Tom Hood’s “Song of the Shirt’’ needs only to be
brought up to date by adapting it to sewing machine
conditions. Human life is cheaper and food re dearer
than when Hood’s verses raised a brief outcry against
the sweating of the sempstress. Nowadays, the machin-
ist in London gets twopence halfpenny for making the
gent.’s shirt that costs Bs. 6d. or 10s. 6d. in a Shop.
She has to find her own cotton and carry the goods fro
and to the factory that gives out this wicked work.
Another lovely industry is envelope-folding. Girls
make up envelopes for three-ha’pence a thousand and
find their own paste.
“C.E.” : The motor-bus appears in Melbourne, and
is bound to push its way as it has done in Lon-
don. I often cannot reach a tram because of the
thick wheel traffic. The motor-bus comes right up
to the kerb, and in London is allowed to keep travel-
ling near it for the convenience of the nervous and
weak. Also, it stops anywhere. These are advantages
that will grow with the growth of traffic. The lack
of traffic is, of course, the big reason why, though the
new vehicles are wanted here even now, they will not
be at once the huge financial success they are in Lon-
don. But wait. Time is on their side.
* * * *
An Orange (N.S.W.) auctioneer has just found
out that the Law looks with a cold eye on one of
the tricks of his trade. As soon as word goes
round that a man has made £27,400 or some other
tidy sum through canny land-dealings, auctioneers
and land-subdivisionists enrol him as a bell wether.
If he buys, or can be paraded as a buyer, the fool-
public will flock in. Lately, at a local land sale,
two reputedly successful speculators were on hand,
and when the bidding hung fire, the auctioneer
knocked the first blocks down to them for £l9
That was enough. The flock followed the bell-
wethers, and the bidding became brisk. Then some
absurd person who had bought a block nosed around
and found out that the two lucky speculators hadn’t
really bought the blocks that had been knocked
down to them to give things a start, and he howled
for damages in respect ef alleged fraudulent mis-
representation. And the Law,, sitting inside a P.M.,
said there had been misrepresentation, and gave "the
man some of the damages he asked for.
* * * *
Patent Attorney’’: Last Commonwealth Gazette
advertises for an assistant examiner in the Patents
Office, who must possess the following qualifications:
(1) Ability in criticism of mechanical descriptions
and preparation of precis; (2) general knowledge
of mechanical science, electricity and metallurgy;
(d) practical experience in the use of tools in one
or j m S e mam| t' a ctures; (4) experience in designing,
and the preparation of drawing’s of machinery.”
The vacancy is in the professional branch, and the
salary offered is £72 per annum. How is this for
sweating? England, even, pays twice as much for
similar work.
* * * *
„ ‘.‘£h tmar !” : . The car &° pilfering described in B.
6/2/ 13 makes it fairly evident that a big firm is at
work a firm that has some capital at its back. Mv
theory is that packing cases to receive the stolen
goods are consigned from the port of departure, os-
tensiWy holding merchandise, and that in these cases
the stolen goods are brought away and signed for in
the usual manner of business. One way of checking
wouM be to mark each package with its gross weight
when leaving the warehouse; then, if the weights
on arrival did not agree, the suspects should be
opened and examined. If goods were found in any
other package than the one in which they were
originally packed, the consignee might be requested
to give a full explanation. He might of course be
able to do so—and again he might not. This, I
think, should lead to the discovery of a new and
vigorous growth of Private Enterprise.
“Mimosa”: Thomas Behan, the starter of the
ostrich-breeding industry in Queensland, thinks of
taking a trip shortly through England and America
via Egypt, and intends to give the ostrich some
study. Writer, who put in a few years with the
birds in South Africa, advises him gratis to get hold
of a few specimens of the genuine article; and, as
export from South Africa is banned, this will mean
trekking 500 miles S.W. of Tripoli to the southern
borders of Barbary. That is where the original tame
Cape, birds came from. In 1865 there were 82 such
birds in Cape Colony; in 10 years they had in-
creased to 32,247 ; by the end of 1904 the number
was 357,408; seven years later (1911) it stood at
746,736. The figures for 20 years will show what
money there is in the biz. In 1891 the declared
value of the exported feathers was £468,221, or an
average of £3 os. 6d. per bird. In 1904 the returns
showed £1,058,998, or £2 19s. 3d. per bird. The
1911 figures jumped to £2,253,044, equal to
£3 os. 4d. per bird. To get some of that ric - '
crop for Australia we must go to Barbary and sta v t
a foundation stud with double-flue birds. At
present, to put it plainly, we have very little except
rubbish in Australian pens. ,ne writer t inks
knows a good-quality feather and bird, and he has to
admit with regret that he has not yet seen an Aus-
tralian-growth sample of either.
* * * *
When the tactful Johnson can spare a few minutes
from his job of giving lessons in manners and gram-
mar to his bosses, he might inquire into the system
under which the railway refreshment-rooms are run.
It is a rotten example of Private Enterprise methods.
The rooms, instead of being run by the Department,
are let to lessees —usually by tender. The highest
tenderer invariably gets tiie place for three years. If
he makes a success of it and popularises the “stand,”
he has to bid higher next time, for there is then al-
most bound to be competition. The result is that, pretty
often, as a lessee's term draws to a close, he let’s
things run themselves, so that for a while trade may
be driven away and possible competitors scared off.
Or, if he has decided to go out of the business, he
takes the last possible farthing out of the travelling
public and gives the smallest possible service in re-
turn. The wretched system, which is grossly unfair
to the lessees themselves, is also grossly unfair to
travellers, who naturally can’t find more than two or
three well-run railway refreshment-rooms in the
whole of N. S. Wales.
A JOKE ON US.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Some amusing exchanges between witnesses and
members of the Federal Fruit Commission took
place yesterday at Hobart — Argus.
When fruit is dear, good Stout can part
The price, and still have apple-tart;
But when we toiling blighters pay
Excessive prices for our jam
He laughs, in an insulting way,
As though he did not care a *
When, too, the common people spread
Not jam, but treacle, on their bread,
Good Stout is thoroughly amused,
And rocks with hearty merriment,
Seeing this simple fodder used
The jammeries to circumvent.
Is pumpkin-raspberry compo. sold
At full all-raspberry rates of old ?
Well, fruit is very dear, just now,
And pumpkins readily obtained.
Pumpkin ! It’s Stout who makes that row,
Howling with laughter unrestrained.
Do we expend a bob or more
At some dashed Dago’s smellful store?
Stout’s pleasant spirits fail to flag
When he observes, with cackles, what
A small, absurd, ill-furnished bag
Falls to the Common Person’s lot.
Daily the public, wrathy, dumb,
Adventuring, dismayed and glum.
Among fruit specked and second-best,
Gives witty Stout new tales to te11....
But, when good Stout has had his jest,
We fruitless ones may go to * * *
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


!
PITT /3ND
CASTLEPCAGn 5
STDNET
t.
9
v
*W**\
*]' f
II
if
»!
<*>
' f
51
IS?*'*
-
"V
Quiet § Gool. Rest 8 Comfort Assured.
Visitors to Sydney will find all the advantages of hotel life with the exclusiveness of
their own homes at the Arcadia.
150 Bedrooms, comfortably furnished in modern style.
Spacious Dining Room, Sitting Rooms and Reception Rooms all furnished in a
luxurious manner.
Electric Lighting and Hot Water Service throughout, day and night.
The Arcadia is situated in the heart of the city, handy to all theatres and principal shops.
It is replete with every modern convenience to add to the comfort; of visitors.
Excellent cuisine and courteous attention.
TARIFF :
Double Rooms, full board, two guests :
From £5 per week.
Single Rooms, full board, one guest :
From £2 10s. per week.
Inclusive Terms, per day : Bs.
Double Room and Breakfast, two guests :
From £3 6s. per week.
Double Room and Breakfast, two guests :
10s. per day.
Single Room and Breakfast, one guest :
335. per week.
Single Room and Breakfast, one guest :
ss. per day.
Breakfast : Is. 6d.
Luncheon : Is. 6d. Dinner : 3s.
| The Hotel Arcadia.
I Pitt and Castlereafch Sts., Sydney
/
i.


Shipping:.
P.
and
O.
BRANCH SERVICE.
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Via MELBOURNE and ADELAIDE.
Wireless installed. *Twin Screw. fCalls Hobart.
PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION AMIDSHIPS.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
LONDON £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l7 17s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne: John Sanderson & Co., 11l William St.
Adelaide and Fremantle Agents: Geo. Wills & Co.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Pi,ace. Sypnet.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Head Office: 11 Moore Street, Sydney.
(Guaranteed by the State Government).
Has Now No Connection
with the Post Offices.
The Bank has 115 Branches and
500 Agencies throughout the State.
DEPOSITS received from 1/- to £500.
INTEREST—3K% from £1 to £300,
and 3% oi\ excess of £500.
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
of f|orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE,
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of (ieorge and Bridge Sfs.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Piiilp k Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK, LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts ail usual Banking Business.
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,534
PAID-UP (31st December, 1912).. £1,195,274
RESERVE FUND £15,000
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney'.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS —Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Chas. 11.
Myles, Esq.; Mark Sheldon, Esq.; Arthur S.
Barton, Esq; Frank N. Yauwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales k Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world’.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. £BOO.OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. 413,590 14 6
Reserve .. .. .. .. 130,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091.669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since 189 S specially protected.
Directors —Jas. Munro, Esq. (Chairman) ; John
Cameron, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. ; Geo. Edw. Bunning
Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON FIXED DEPOSITS
12 months, at the rate of 4 per cent, per annum ; 2
vears ar.d over, at the rate of ii per cent, per annum.
HEAD OFFICE - - - - BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
New Zealand Insurance Cuj
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
LIVE STOCK and GENERAL.
WEALTHIEST COLONIAL COMPANY.
INSURANCES EFFECTED at LOWEST Current Rates.
FIRE and MARINE BRANCH: 77 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
ACCIDENT BRANCH: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
J. A. Minnbtt & A. E. D’Arcy, J'int, Managers.
CARBIDE.
For First-Class
Results use
Best
w*r
PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing: it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAI., LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Agpnts for Australia.
Shipping:.
N.D.L.
norddeutscher-lloyd
MAIL STEAMERS
To Colombo, Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and
Bremen.
All steamers fitted with “Wireless” Installation.
All steamers fitted with Laundry.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE from Svdney
and Brisbane, via German New Guinea, Yap,
Angaur or Maron. Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to —-
LOHMANN & CO.. General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney ;
OSTERMEYER, VAN ROMPAEY k Co., Melbourne;
H. MUECKE k CO., Adelaide:
L. RATAZZI k CO., Perth and Fremantle;
1 HOS. BROWN k SONS. Ltd., Brisbane k Townsville.
Bank of |)ew Z ea| and.
SYjDNUV RRANCH :
EQUITABLE BUILDING. GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£3,000.000
Preference Shares . . .... 500,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
»P 600.000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,240,587
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Bri-
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE
t Triple-screw Turbine.
’Third-class only. All steamers fitted with Wireless.
SALOON: FARES— Third-class.
London, from £45. £l6 to £2O.
Capetown and Durban, from £3O £l3/13/- to £l7/17/-
Special Round Tickets for Return by Orient Line,
£llO (First-class both ways) ; £B2 (Second-class
Orient).
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll4 10s.
SALOON CABINS on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest stan-
dard.
Pamphlets. Time-Tables, ire., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia
Australian Steamships Ltd.
Howard Smith Co. Ltd., Managing Agents.
Fast Passenger Steamers
* S.S. COOMA,
*S.S. BOMBALA,
S.S. PEREGRINE.
’Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Leave Ports as follows:
MELBOURNE every Wednesday.
SYDNEY every Saturday.
BRISBANE every Tuesday and Wednesday.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma) every Monday and
Wednesday.
MACKAY every Sunday and Thursday.
TOWNSVILLE every Saturday.
New Express Passenger Steamer, T.S.S. -WANDILT.A
sails for ADELAIDE, ALBANY and FRE-
MANTLE—
From SYDNEY, ’TUESDAY, MARCH 4.
From MELBOURNE, SATURDAY, MARCH 8.
FULL PARTICULARS re FARES, FREIGHTS, etc.,
from
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
An Island Cruise
is the ideal change of air and scene for
residents of Inland Australia. An ever-
changing panorama of coral reefs, palm-clad
beaches and picturesque native villages.
Send for Illustrated Books describing
various tours by the Burns, Philp Line,
occupying three weeks to two months, and
costing £5 to £25.
H
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 11 Bridge Street, Sydney-
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
DIRECTORS:
£3,000,000
£2,150.000
£3,000,000
£8,150,000
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, Kt., M.L.C.
President.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James T. Walker.
Thomas Buckland, Esq. | _The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
Auditors: Shepheard Edgecliffe Laidley, Esq.; Alfred George Milson, Esq.
Head Office— George St., Sydney. London Office —29 Threadneedle St., E.C.
With 335 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua. Agents and Corres-
pondents throughout the World.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE
WORLD. J. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up.. ..£1,739,553 2 6
Reserve Fund . . . . 1,580,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 1,750,000 0 0
£5,069,553 2 6
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen, Esq .. .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Eater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. 11. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: W. L. Docker, Esq., and E. S. Cape, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
11. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
Manager: A. J. Soutar.
Accountant: W. R. Sayers.
Secretary: M. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors: W. C. B. Tiley, W. H. Pinhet.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. H. S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State cf New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. ..£538,307
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 159,054
Reserve Fund (invested in Govt. Stock). - 76,500
£773.861
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. 1
Gen. Man.. Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. 11. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 -BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents Rnd Correspondents throughout the World.
The Colonial [flutual Cife
assurance society limited
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,358,229.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £5,600,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith. K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretary.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE.
Choice of Bail Routes through America, via Grand
Canyon, Yosemlte, Niagara Falls, etc.
Around the World Tours in connection with all lines.
Around the Pacific Tours, returning from Vancouver
via Hoiolulu, Suva and Auckland.
And EVERY 28 DAYS THEREAFTER.
*The largest and finest steamer trading between
Sydney and San Francisco.
Steamers stop 24 Hours at Papete—the
“ Pearl of the Pacific.”
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD
259 George Street. SYDNEY. ’
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
‘ Zealandia,”
‘Ulimaroa,”
‘Riverina,”
‘Westralia,”
‘Wimmera,”
‘Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMsiiipc).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and Iron,
West Australian, South Australian
Victorian and Queensland Ports ’
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports.
'KJflS***
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports Norrh to Cairns.
S.s. Wollowra, March 1
Gran tala (Wireless
Telegraphy), March 8
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchansre.M.
the first Port of call with other inter-State ril a ' e ’
on all services subject to conditions.
ascertained on application at the Company's Offic
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD., '•
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
The Vancouver Route
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
Via FIJI AND HONOLULU.
CANADIAN - AUSTRALASIAN RM
LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railwav,
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
AROUND THE WORLD TOURS.
FIRST AND SECOND CLASS.
SAILINGS :
*New triple-screw steamer, fitted with cab'ns-de-
luxe en suite, Nursery, Laundry, etc.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents. 259 George Street, Sydney.
Federal & Shire Lines
Steam to London, Liverpool
and A von mouth.
(Via Colombo and Suez Canal).
T.S.S. ARGYLLSHIRE.
12,300 Tons. W. CHICKEN, Commander,
Will be despatched from—
BRISBANE, MARCH 2.
SYDNEY, MARCH 8.
MELBOURNE, MARCH 10.
ADELAIDE, MARCH 15.
The Saloon accommodation consists of all two-
berth cabins on the Upper deck, situated amidships.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious
decks. Third-class passengers supplied with frtsh
provisions from cool chambers throughout the voyage.
Electric light throughout.
Return and Round Trip Tickets issued via Cape
and (or) Suez Route. Prepaid passages arranged.
Saloon. Third-class.
Fares .. £4O to £45. £l6/16/- to £lB/18/-
Steerage Fares from Brisbane, One Guinea Extrl
To be followed by the
T.S.S. WILTSHIRE, leaving Sydney April 10,
Calling at Hobart and Colombo.
FITTED WITH WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY.
For further information, pamphlets, etc., apply to—
BIRT k CO., LTD., Sydney and Brisbane.
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & CO. PTY., Ltd.,
Melbourne and Newcastle.
ELDER SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
H. JONES & CO., LTD., Hobart.
A Whole Week Saved
SYDNEY to SAN FRANCISCO by the
Oceanic Steamship Company
10,000 tons, Twin Screw Steamers. 17 knots.
Classed 101 A 1 at British Lloyds.
CABINS DE LUXE with BATHS.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY- - ,
The through trip to England can be accomplished
in 29 Days via Samoa, Honolulu, San Francisco.
RETURN TICKETS GOOD BY P. &0., ORIENT LINE,
N.D.L., N.Z .S. Co. and S. S. & A. Co.
Tel. 2282 City. Apply—44 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
THE North Coast Steam
1 Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNINO
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF S HAK-
BOR ahd WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction wi_
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISHAfI •
thence to Tweed Heads—steamer to Murwillun> Da ’
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence K )Vel ’
there connecting with one of the Company s up-i
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Bs. 6d. ; second-class rail and steerag
on steamer, £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide'and all particulars apply:
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY,
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director^
UNITED
"insurance
COMPANY Ltd.
MEAD OFFICE: if
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500.000.
Fire Insurances
effected on all classes
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marina Risks
■ ■
on Wool, Merchan
Hulls of Vessels, Freights.
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United ” is an Australian Institution.
THOMAS M. TINLKT, Manaeef-


'EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hi 1 da, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
w
re
a
ail
M
VM
LONPON’S famous
family hotel.
Standing on high ground, it occupies
a healthy and hygienic situation within
a few minutes of the principal attrac-
tions by tube or taxi-cab. Rooms
large, lofty, and airy. Private suites,
including separate bathrooms. Every
convenience, with the refined luxury
of a modern English Home. Easy
access to all parts of the Country,
London’s five great railway termini
being close to the Hotel. Moderate
Tariff. Special terms to families and
visitors making a prolonged stay.
Telegrams : “Centellare,” London.
'Ringing for More!'
-ULfc
/A
Bird’s
Custard
stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess*
Has stood the test of time
L Over 70 years ’ success, f
li U: BE .
■ ■mm
. ■■
* n * m *"*%*D*^
Kjtb***.
if • \ ; ;
! m 3
®v;v J :
H //
Y
]!
pP
s
l;J
m:z:
. ,'T
wnpimb
WALT
mim
* -
i
k:. ijbss
:■ '-i,:
-1 <■..
CHAMPIONS
VIINEGAR
Commonwealth
Bank of Hustralla
Bra »s C unde*r:- ° Pen f ° r the transaction of General Banking: Business throughout Australia
Wales—Sydney and Canberra Victoria—Melbourne. Queensland—Brisbane anrt
Townsville. South Australia-Adelaide Western Australia-Perth Tanninia-Zbart
And at Egfypt House, 36-38 New Broad Street, London
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT
Offices which issue Money Orders in the Australian
Withdrawals on demand may he effected for sums up to £lO at any Office within the Commonwealth
1/-
Minimu
Deposit
tOru Jakuart, 1913
3Z
Rate of Interest on
all Deposits up to
£3OO
DENISON MILLER, Oovirmok
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queensland
o ers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the prospective
settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office : 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
THE PLUM RAZOR
IS KEEN AND
RELIABLE.
I
It glides swiftly through the most stubborn growth, and keeps its keen
edge for a long period.
As practical hairdressers we can recommend it.
Get one to-day and learn what perfect shaving means.
We’ll keep your “Plum” in good order for two years free of charge.
PRICE 10/6 y Post Free.
The C. & A. Moustache Trainer
shapes the moustache. Worn
at night; 2/6, 3/6, 6/6 each
post free.
We Grind and Set Razors, 1/- each
SAFETY RAZORS FROM 5/6.
Send for our Free Illustrated
Price List.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle,10/6
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-. This line
makes a very handsome present.
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6.
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Stick good Shaving Soap, 1/-
The Plum Razor Strop Dressing, 1/-
Tube. Gentlemen who shave them-
selves should not he without it.
All the Above Post Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED 30 YEARS.
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball-
Bearing: Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America,
and bv all the'Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago, O.S.A.
Ĥ
“RICHARDSON-
CHICAGO
I
*0 4
s
AIwITT
MASS
A
it/?.
A\A
07
Ax,
\
VOUR customers get the goods for which
they pay* You should be as sure of
getting the money for the goods you sel).
Whether you do or not depends entirely on the system you
use in conducting your business. The old way was to
depend on memory and habit. With our new system you
depend on machinery which enforces accuracy and stops
mistakes in your store. The National Cash Register will
systematize your business, so that you will be as sure of
getting all your profits as your customers are of getting
their goods. It will pay you to investigate.
CALL OR WRITE
The National Cash Register Co.
of Australasia Ltd.
335 PITT ST., SYDNEY
343 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE
281 MURRAY ST., PERTH
50 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
117 a RUNDLE ST., ADELAIDE
MACQUARIE ST., HOBART
“Things done by halves are never
done right.” “Golcryst,” the new aper-
ient made from Epsom Salts, Senna,
Sarsaparilla, Dandelion, Liquorice and
Ginger, “gets to business” thoroughly.
There are no half measures about
“Golcryst.” Yet there is no griping
nor weakening. “Golcryst” has no equal
as a Blood purifying and Rheumatism
curing medicine.
Everywhere 3d., 6d. and Is. sample
posted free by Proprietors,
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO.,
Melbourne.
Ħ
QIVEN AWAY,
To Advertise
our
OSTRICH!
TIPS.
O / A the Buneh
post free.
Three Black Tips,
or Black Pipped
with White.
Write to-day. Send
Postal Notes.
Catalog-lies Free.
Miller’s Fpn.t,her Shop,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bullwtin.] [6
UNCLAIMED MQNEY&PROPERTY.
DOUGAL’S REGISTER to NEXT-OF-KIN,
CHANCERY HEIRS, LEGATEES, *c„ &c„ price
3/-,480 pages. Robertson’s,booksellers,Melbourne,
Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, or Dougal * Co.
Claims investigated and carried through
DOUCAL&CO.,ISI. STRAND, LONDON, ENGLAND.
{Established over SO Years.)
MODEL "L"
E 0
THE HEART OE THE AUTOMOBILE—
Fame's Schebler Carburetor
The best Carburetor for ALL PETROL ENGINES
—either Land or Marine, Stationary or Moving 1 .
The Schebler makes your engine develop
greater horse power for a less consumption of
fuel.
The Schebler holds many world’s records.
Booklet and all information free.
Correspondence invited.
ROBERT C. SWAN & CO. LTD.,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Sole Agents for Australia.
CONFIDENTIAL LETTERS
H
X''
j>nN\
I
ZANtTlC
remain Private when the Zanetic
N.S.C. Copying Book is used.
You slip your note paper into the
holder, write your letter, and the
copy is made as yon write (in ink).
“Letter shows no sign of Copying'’
The letter is posted and the book
put away. 400 Octavo (8 in. by 5 )
letters or 200 Quarto can he copied
in N.S.C./200, Post Free for 3/9:
or 800 Octavo or 400 Quarto in
N.S.C./400, Post Free, tor 5/ .
Special Small Octavo Book, mak-
ing 200 copies, for P.O. SI- Post
Free; or double capacity 4/3.
H
Zanetic Pens, Bd. d0z.,2/~ Rross. Zanetio Writing Pa P® r ' »!“
8x s 1/. plct. 10x8, 2/- Sample of the Zanetic Ink paper which
produces this result, Free, if stamped envelope sent to :
S b. ZANETIC, Zanetic Works, Welford Road, LEICESTER, Env and.
D. Brahm 8 Co.,
Tailors
are now showing their Winter Stocks of
Materials for
LADIES’ COSTUMES
These Materials are the Latest Produc-
tions of the British Manufacturers, and are
what are now fashionable in the European
centres ; and will be supplemented by further
shipments each fortnight during the coming
seasop.
A particularly fine range of Fure Indigo
Serges are also being shown.
Our Cutter—Mr. Murphy—gives each cus-
tomer his personal attention.
DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
Tailors and Costumers,
76 Market Street, SYDNEY


HORSESHOE
™SALMON
All the excellence of the fresh fish is retained in
Horseshoe Salmon. The flavor of this
splendid red fish is unsurpassed.
Horseshoe lends itself to the preparation of
numberless excellent dishes. In any of these forms
or used direct from the can it is delicious.
Canned from fine Selected Fish.
The “AERO”
FOLDING HAT.
RESTS
LIKE
VELVET
Tis a far cry from the heavy
winter fur hat to the light,
folding, “ ounce-or-two ” model.
It has a fur finish. Conveniently
neglige, it may be worn to almost
any shape.
THE SHADES—new and distinc-
tive Tney are—Venice Blue,
Elephant Grey, Pool Green and
Fawn.
<* Vi?
P, ">
8,,
Please send for one on approval.
There's no obligation to purchase.
Limited
BRISBANE.
15/6
Write for Price
List, Post Free.
IN
BANANA LAND
The Queensland Labor party wants to
abolish assisted immigration on the ground
that it is flooding the country with cheap
labor; and harrowing tales have been told
of flocks or shoals of disappointed new-
chums pouring over the country eager to
snap up any job that offers. Now comes the
cold, hard yarn of the Commonwealth Statis-
tician to the effect that Queensland’s immi-
grants last year numbered 6462 all told,
assisted and unassisted —a mighty flood of
one to every 130 square miles. If the State
Labor party were a branch of the Jap pub-
lic service it could hardly do the tricky little
brown person’s work better.
There is more difference between tweedle-
dum and tweedledee than is generally al-
a e ™c F ? r instance > the appeal of one P.
A. D Sullivan against a conviction placed
upon him in Brisbane for running a lottery
was heard in Hobart last week bv the High
Court. The scheme evolved in Queensland
by appellant took the form of a building
society at one shilling a share. At intervals
there was to be a sale, the winning share-
holder receiving a cash bonus. It was a
thinly-designed sweep; in fact, the promo-
ters advertised that it was an improvement
on Tattersall’s. The High Court upheld the
conviction and adjourned in time to enable
it D f it desired) to buy a hatful of tickets
in Tatt. s sweeps on its way home. If one
of the Judges hadn’t time to call in himself
he could have sent a policeman for the
tickets with perfect propriety.
“Don Q.” : There are some reliable sweat-
ers in Queensland, and even the Govern-
ment is getting a reputation in this respect.
A week ago several painters employed by
the Railway Department shed their tools
because the Commissioner refused to pay the
ra C of wages for painting provided under
a Wages Board award. They werfe merely
casual hands, and as everybody knows
casual workers are not as hungry as men
in constant employment, and their children
can be kept in charitable institutions at a
trifling expense. A few days later an em-
ployee in the Health Department suicided.
But before doing so he wrote a letter in
which he explained that as pay cashier he
was receiving from the Government the lofty
sum of 30s. ner week, and that a warrant
was out for him on a charge of embezzle-
ment. If a Labor party had been in power
instead of a Government representing
Money-bags what a dust would have ob-
scured the landscape! As it is, it doesn’t
matter.
The. Barnes-Denham crowd is continually
advertising the fact that it has abufidance
of loan money for all purposes. If this be so
why has the work on the Tobermorey exten-
sion ceased? Why has the Blackall-Win-
dorah railway come to a dead finish? What
is the matter with Mount Cuthbert and one
or two other lines already started, where not
a pick is now to be heard? Perhaps Trea-
surer Barnes’s pockets are so plugged up
with loan dollars that he can’t get them out
even as the over-educated youth failed in his
exam, because his superfluous information
got jammed in the doorway of his mind.
Queensland Full Court mildly expressed
the opinion that a former Full Court of
N. S. Wales was talking through its wig.
The question was whether a pilot, employed
by the State, was liable if he piled up a
ship which the State said had to be piloted
—liable, that is, to the owners of the ship,
who had no voice in choosing him. Ma’s
Full Court said in the Bannockburn case
that “the Crown does not retain the
power of controlling the pilot’s move-
ments in the actual discharge of the
duties of navigating a ship.” Queens-
land’s _ Judges said that, by the same
reasoning, no employer would ever be re-
sponsible for anything; and it told the
F. and A. Co. that it might go ahead and
assume that the Government was liable for
the grounding of the Eastern last year. The
co. wants £50,000.
How the tropic
North thins the
blood of the Euro-
pean ! The other
day two Charters
Towers cabmen
had a barney, and
as a result, one
shot the other —
fatally. Both of
these hot - heads
were over 70 years
of age, and but for
the unfortunate
proximity of a re-
volver would pro-
bably have gone
on driving cabs in-
to their 90th year.
At 90 the Queens-
land climate be-
comes almost un-
bearable to nearly
everybody.
Old-man Barlow, Queensland’s journey-
man Minister and acting Premier, cursed
Federation the other day, and declared that
“the results for Queensland had been disas-
trous.” The same day or thereabouts one
of Barlow’s old banking pals was talking
officially to the shareholders of the Q. N.
Bank in Brisbane. The disastrous concern
smashed with a dreadful smell in 1893. It
owed about £1,050,000 to the public, for
which it had no assets whatever. All it
could promise was to try to make up the
shortage out of future profits. Down to
1903 —10 years after the smelly smash—it
had paid Is. in the £ of this debt. That is
to say, in seven years before Federation
arrived and in the three years when Fed-
eration was getting into its stride, the Bank
that had smashed in the days before Fed-
eration got rid of only one-twentieth of the
dead horse. In the next three years an-
other twentieth of the obscene animal was
removed. Then as Federation went on pro-
ducing further disaster to Queensland, it
took only two years to shift the next twen-
tieth. . In the following three years one-
twentieth was shifted every nine months.
Now the carcase is disappearing at the rate
of a twentieth every six months ; and while
Barlow was talking vaguely of the dreadful
results of Federation, Barlow’s banking pal
was telling shareholders that he expected
things to be so good during the next seven
years that by that time the bad smell left
by the pre-Federation smash should be com-
pletely removed from the State’s premises.
Probably Barlow, being a mournful old
crow, reckons the removal of pre-Federation
carcases a calamity. If so, he should make
himself clearer.
Farewell, Yesterday!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I would not have Yesterday back, not I!
I’ve pretty near done with To-day !
Some folk for the sweets of the past may
sigh,
joys in the future I pray!
For Yesterday’s stale as an old wives’ tale,
And its sorrows and cares are forgot.
Bring it sunshine or sorrow, I look for To-
morrow ;
It’s as like to be sunshine as not.
Oh, rot!
It’s as like to be sunshine as not!
I would not have Yesterday back, not much !
Let clocks and the calendar waste;
With the hour that’s gone I have quite lost
touch ;
On our journey we must make haste.
Oh ! the wake gleams white in the morning
light,
And the coastline is fading away.
But no talk of returning! The Past lam
spurning!
Let us travel ahead while we may!
Hooray!
Let us travel ahead while we may.
I would not have Yesterday back! ’Tis
done —
Its sorrows, its joys and its tears;
They sank out of sight with the setting sun
And merged with the welter of years.
I bid you forget if you would not fret —
Ev’ry retrospect costs you a sigh.
Oh ! the brave, forward fighting our strength
is delighting,
But astern is a lowering sky.
Good-bye !
For its unrelieved grey is a lie!
I would not have Yesterday back! Who will
May pray lie will sight it ahead ;
But the log of my life’s too short to fill
With days that are sunken and dead.
I would journey on till my strength is gone,
Living, every day in its turn ;
Though it made us or broke us, the Past’s
out of focus.
But ahead we have something to learn.
To learn!
Some new joy or some sorrow to learn !
E. O’F.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, February 22, 1913.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
We’re having our share of the crews of
the two Japanese instructional warships
which are nosing along the Australian coast.
On Tuesday Governor Macgregor will per-
sonally conduct a mixed party of white and
brown down the river in the old hulk Lucin-
da. This will give the visitors an oppor-
tunity to observe the alleged defence works
at Lytton.
By the way, his Ex. will havb to give up
gay bachelordom shortly. Mrs. Ex., daughter
and the Paget grandaughter are due at Fre-
mantle on Monday (24th inst.) aboard the
Frederich der Grosse. Thence to Brisbane.
The city’s new Gaud Mayor, Alderman
Henry Doggett, is a small, shrewd person
with a cropped grey beard and a humorous
eye. Likewise he wears his feet at the
usual end of his body, and when he walks
only one of them is twirled in the atmos-
phere at a time. He rarely leaps, especi-
ally at meals. His wife is a retiring little
woman, who is somewhat fearful of her new
gauddess-ship, but intends to hold it on to its
halter with determination and both hands.
The Gaud’s first flutter will be a reception
to Britain’s Asiatic allies, who are parading
round with a couple of war vessels.
IN THE COW COUNTRY.
INSPECTOR (to pupil who has just finished
reading about an orphan child): "What
is an orphan?”
PUPIL: “ Please sir, I don’t know."
INSPECTOR: “Well, what would you be
called if you had the misfortune to lose
your father and mother?”
P UPIL (triumphantly): “Oh! then I’d
be a poddy.”
Died on Sunday morning, Lewis Thomas,
who, during the last 10 years, has sat in
that anarchistic body, the Legislative Coun-
cil of this State. He came to Queensland
nearly 60 years ago. The day before he
sailed from Wales (the old one) he married
the gentle little Welshwoman who has here-
abouts done so much, in such a quiet way,
for charity. For ten years he toiled in
Queensland before he could send for
his wife, who, meanwhile, was working in
the mills. Thomas began his workaday
career at the age of eight, when he took
his place in the coal pits in Cardigan.
He was 27 when he came to Australia, and
went first to Victoria. In 1866 he cut the
first ton of coal in the old Aberdare colliery
in Bqndamba, and from that day his wealth
started to grow and flourish like the More-
ton Bay tree. One child only (a daughter
who is now married) was born to him.
Another military man (from Victoria this
time) has annexed the sole remaining
daughter of Robert Collins. About a fort-
night ago sister Bertha accepted the visible
badge of matrimony from one Harris, who
is something in the A.F.A., but whether he
is the brigadier-sergeant or the adjutant-
bos’n, I know not. History is silent and
Who’s Who is mum. Anyhow, he is sta-
tioned at Sydney. Now Dorothea has capi-
tulated to the Cupid battery brought into
action by Captain Lloyd of the same arm of
the service, so that the man behind the field-
gun seems to be a weakness with the Col-
lins girls. Captain Lloyd polishes his war
ironmongery at Melbourne. His bride-to-be
keeps up the family’s horse reputation and
also whirls a capable tennis club. ’
The committee of the Lady Lamington
Hospital has proved its right to be con-
sidered enterprising. A “Kismet” ball will
be held in March, to help build a new wing
and already burly Oscar Asche and his Lily
have promised to decorate the affair with
their gorgeous selves in full Bagdad dress.
Architect Brady, who leaves for England
next week with his wife and daughter, was
given a send-off on the Otter this afternoon
by the Institute of Polite Engineers. The
usual toast list, besprinkled with speeches
was the circumstance of the afternoon. N 0!
body had a word to say against Brady, and
if there were any complaints against the
whisky they were not made public.
Another boat picnic was that of the Bris-
bane Merchants’ Association, which munched
its lunch on board the Lucinda. That levia-
than had been partially cleansed for the
occasion. The. liquid refreshment aboard
would have cheered the heart of a peram-
bulating cold water press agent who was
short of “copy.”
Frances Willard, of W.C.T.U. fame, was
“commemorated” on Monday by the sister
hood she helped to found. On Thursday, at
the monthly meeting of the dry-bone society,
the opportunity was grabbed to mention
Frances some more. But it was an unsatis-
fying celebration, offering nothing more sub-
stantial than a pint of froth with a dash of
blue ribbon.
The daily newspapers are full of the hys-
terical capers of the British suffragettes just
now and how not to deal with them. All
that is required, Thargomindah, my dear, is
a large, calm washer-lady with a hand like
a corrugated pancake. Let her be ap-
pointed Public Spanker, and then pass along
the insurrectionists one at a time.
That clever comedy company. The Moths,
has left Brisbane for the smalls. Leathley,
who runs the show, has no reason to love
Brisbane. Last year he took up his stand
with the “Musical Oorricks” one day before
the strike fiasco started. Needless to say.
he had to shut down. Then he organised
“The Moths,” who gave a bright and pleas-
ant little programme. For the first month
the place was well filled with people; after
that it was merely well filled with what the
people used to sit on ; and each performance
meant a bigger hole in Leathley’s savings.
So he has decided to shake Brisbane and
lead his co. to a better grazing ground.
“The Monk and the Woman” has been
played to packed houses during the week.
It will move on next Tuesday.
Yours in Lent,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
“Ivuscobin” : Weinholt, so his friends say,
knows that he has no hope of winning Wide
Bay against Andrew Fisher; but he is
anxious to enter National politics, and he
knows that the sacrifice of his Fassifern
seat in the State House will be a fine advt.
If the halo doesn’t afterwards win him a
nomination as one of the candidates
|he will probably be a very disappointed
young man, as well as a very rich one.
“Boswell,” still in defence:—
“Northern Democrat” (B. 20/2/’l3), disputing the
Big Australianism of the Bananaland Labor party,
dwells on one topic only, the question of immigra-
tion. But what of the great Referenda questions?
Has “Northern Democrat” no word to say for the
Labor party’s attitude towards them ? Has he no
note of admiration in either eye for the way State
Labor members are already skirmishing with the
heavy infantry of the Meat Trust and other similar
demons? The probable victory of the Referenda in
Bananaland will be largely achieved by the activity
of State Laborites, from whose councils the State
Fright midrobe is as conspicuously absent as it is
conspicuously present in the McGowen-Holman crowd
of N. S. Wales.
Says Treasurer Barnes :
The policy now pursued of spending certain sums
of money each year is much better than the policv
of plunging and then coming to a stoppage. I
would not be a partner to such a policy.
Barnes expended about three millions of loan
money last year on a population of slightly
over '600,000 —say, £22 10s. of borrowed
money per household. But this is not plung-
ing ; it’s only “keeping a tight hand on
things.” Some people think the hand is only
tight in the sense that the owner of it is on
the financial drunk.
Doggett, Brisbane’s new Mayor, is a man
of few words, and a contractor. He threa-
tens to be a negative success. He is the type
of Mayor who is sentenced to 12 months’
limelight and boredom for his failure to make
enemies. Of the 14 who took a hand in his
election, seven were ex-Mayors, namely,
McMaster, Buchanan, Crase, Iletherington,
Raymond, Wilson and C.M.G. Diddams.
Hitherto the contest has been a tug-of-war,
Citv versus Others, seven aside. This year
ex-Mayor Buchanan, a city representative,
threw in his lot with the others; so the old
Town Hall site struggle, the godsend of the
local papers, will probably be renewed with
vigor.


'Tfie Tyre With
the BIG NAME
& Bic Mileage
v\
/
4RRS
u
J
Ji
¥/
»)
0
i)
■i.
A
k-M
P <9
4LL-STOTES ■-•‘HEW ZC4L/INP.
*
'
m


The Starrett Level
and Transit 99 B,
For Farmers, Builders,
Contractors ——= 80s.
Farmers, as a rule, have most of the latest tools and implements for
doing farm work, but rarely will you find a levelling instrument
included in the kit-simply because they do not care to pay the
price usually charged for a surveyors’ or engineers level and transit.
The result is that jobs needing a level have been done by guesswork,
and therefore unsatisfactorily.
H
The Starrett 99 B gets you out of
the difficulty. The price complete with
long legs and Telescope is but 80/-
Starrett 99 B guarantees ac
curacy on all kinds of drainage, under-
drainage, irrigation work, terracing
land, road making, setting out orchards,
grading of all kinds, fencing, getting
angles, and every farm job requiring
such an instrument. Your neighbours
would gladly hire it from you at times.
The Starrett 99 B is also for architects, carpenters, and contrac-
tors to lay out building sites, and to determine the levels : for masons
and millwrights in the construction of foundation and the setting of
water wheels, building of dams and raceways. _
The surveyor will find this superior to the ordinary needle compass,
for any angles may be taken where, from local attraction, it would be
impossible to set them off with the needle. .
There is nothing like The Starrett 99 B for the money. It is
made of finest materials —the body is of iron and brass, tripod of
iron, the sight tube, level case, and graduated arcs, nickel-plated ;
all other parts are japanned. Packed weight about 151bs.
Full instructions for use sent with each instrument.
We also sell No. 99 F, with telescope, long legs, and ground and
graduated level glass —£7 10 /-
Levelling Instrument only, No. 101-46/-
We sell “Labor-Saving" Tools of every
conceivable kind at Money-Saving Prices.
Ask for detail of * Iwan” Post Hole Dig-
gers, Earth Scoops, Farm Sawbenches,
“Iron Age” Tools, etc.
Tool Merchants,
554-66 & 582-88 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
aa
mi
JUST ONE PEEP
AT THE.
MARSHALL Traction 8 Portable Engines
is sufficient to convince any person who knows anything about Steam
Engines that MARSHALL, SONS & CO.’S productions represent
ENGLAND’S BEST.
Catalogues Free.
In every country in the world Mar-
shall’s are regarded as the standard
by which all others are compared.
Salesmen are frequently heard tell-
ing their clients that their particu-
lar engine is “just as good as Mar-
shall’s.” Don’t be misled. THERE
IS NO OTHER JUST AS GOOD.
Light and Heavy Pattern TRAC-
TIONS, specially adapted to Aus-
tralian conditions. PORTABLES,
2 to 35-h.p Vertical and Hori-
zontal Stationary, also Vertical
and Colonial Type Boilers.
Special English Belting. Pack-
ing Oils and all Engineers’ Fit-
tings.
■Cash or Easy Terms.
MARVELLOUS RESULTS
ARE EVERYWHERE OBTAINED WITH
The BIG CHIEF Oil Engines
m
i
which are the highest-grade American
production on the market.
They are easy to start, and will keep on
running (providing they are properly oiled)
until you require to stop. The equipment is
complete in every detail, and includes Wizard
Magneto, Double Fly Wheels and Muffler.
Being hopper cooled, no troubles need be
feared from leaky tanks.
If you wish to provide yourself -with a
reliable motive power, send us your inquiry.
We will give you expert advice by return
mail —positively gratis.
All sizes Engines, 2 to 12 B.H.P, —using
Benzine or Kerosene as Fuel.
Cash or Easy Terms. Catalogues Free.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO. Limited
161 Clarence Street, Sydney.
STEWART DAWSON
Presentation Medals
Did you ever see anything as artistic and original as our medals ?
For presentations or jor prizes, for men or for youths, our medals
give everlasting pleasure and wear. Write for our beautifully
illustrated Art Catalogue, sent post free on request.
WE PAY POSTAGE ON ALL GOODS.
J3688.—9ct. GOLD
SHIELD MEDAL,
27/0.
J 8528. —9ct. GOLD
MALTESE CROSS,
12/0.
J 3689. —9ct. GOLD
MEDAL, original design,
30/-
J 3 6 9 1.—9 ct. GOLD
SHIELD MEDAL, beauti-
fully embossed,
L^/y/vAv^T
JS687.—9ct. GOLD
MEDAL, a unique design
25/-
J8529. —9ct. GOLD
MEDAL, a neat
design,
12/0
PRICES IN Isct. GOLD FURNISHED ON APPLICATION.
STEWART DAWSON & GO.
(AUSTRALIA) LTD.,
Strand Corner, 412 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
im •
fc**
SODA FOUNTAIN Suppliers
We are Soda Fountain suppliers in the fullest sense. If there is anything in the
Soda Fountain line that we do not stock it is not worth having. We have every-
thing, and what we have we can recommend —and back up our recommedation with
our reputation.
Everything is constructed by skilful workmen, out of specially-chosen
materials. What we do not manufacture ourselves we import direct, and sell to
you at wholesale price.
Our stock has no limit. Included in it is:—
DRAFT ARMS.
ESSENCES.
SODA FOUNTAINS.
PURE FRUIT JUICES.
ESSENTIAL OILS.
STANDARDS.
CARBONATORS (of all kinds). CONCENTRATED SYRUPS.
ELECTRIC AUTOMATIC CARBONATORS.
AUTOMATIC HYDRAULIC PUMP CARBONATORS.
HAND PUMP CARBONATORS.
There is big money for owners of above —so NOW is the time to inquire.
CATALOGUE SENT FREE.
THE NELSON CARBONATING CO. LTD.
167 George Street (Circular Quay), Sydney.


EADIE
COASTER. AND—
—TWO SPEED COASTER
HUBS
EADI
COASTER
The EADIE
COASTER HUB
enables the rider to
coast down the steepest hills in safety, or negotiate
dense traffic with ease. It contains the brake that
never fails —the brake that can be immediately
brought into action by the slightest backward pressure
of the pedal.
The EADIE TWO-SPEED COASTER
is a combination of all the above efficiency with the
additional advantages of a variable gear. Both are
manufactured at the B.S.A. Factories in England, and
are fully described in the B.S.A. Handbook. Free copy
D. Y. RENNIE (representing B.S.A. Co.)
4, Australian Buildings,
Elizabeth Street,
MELBOIJRNF.
rr
EADIE
2SPEED
COASTER
T 6,
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub. Free Wheel
on both gears, Back-pedalling and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop Tyres. As
ridden by FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
ANTHONY HORPCRN <&. SONS LTD.,
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
ea
BtM
ssl
Waterman’s
(Ideal)
FouritairiPen
Lost in London, lost again in Quebec, and
after 18 years’ use as efficient as when quite
new. Read this striking testimonial: —
“ You will be interested to know that the Waterman’s
Ideal Fountain Pen purchased from you in 1894 has been
in constant, unimpaired service ever since. To-day it
writes as well as on the first day of use, 18 years ago. It
does not leak, scratch, or fail to mark on the first contact
with paper, as is often the case with other makes.
“ I could write an interesting story of how I lost it, once
in the busy streets of London, twice in Quebec snow-
storms, once again in a huge wood-pile ot a saw-mill,
always to find it again ; but I must desist. I am happy
to give you this unsolicited testimonial to the continued
value of your-fmintain pen.
“ Yours sincerely, (Rev.) John H. Wright.”
Id 4 types —Regular and Self-Filling, 12 6 and upwards;
Safety and Pump-Filling, 15/- and upwards.
Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
L. & C. Hardtmuth, Ltd., Koh-i-noor House, London, England.
(Australia —3 50, George St., Sydney.)
“The Money
Maker”
9
£
ra
T':
WE ARE THE PEOPLE
We Know It You Should Know It.
In all Departments of the Picture Business
WE LEAD THE WAY.
We can fit you out with a Complete Touring
Plant, and also supply you with all
Accessories to the Business.
Look us up—we should like you to get to know
all about our
SILENT EMPIRE BIOGRAPH
Once you are “wise” to the benefits of this
Machine you will not require to know
about any other.
We have some fine SECOND-HAND COMPLETE
PLANTS In Stock. Let us advise you about
them. A Post-card will always find us.
JERPANS,
393 George Street, Sydney.
■ ■
R-C-H “Twenty-Five”
EQUIPMENT.
WHEELBASE—IIO inches.
MOTOR—Long-stroke; 4 cylinders cast en bloc;
Si-inch bore, 5-inch stroke. Two-bearing
crank shaft. Timing gears and valves en-
closed. Three-point suspension.
STEERING—RIGHT SIDE. Irreversible worm
gear, 16-inch steering wheel. Throttle con-
trol on stering column.
CONTROL—CEN I’UE LEVER operated through
H-plate, integral with universal joint hous-
ing just below. Hand-lever emergencv
brake at driver’s left. Foot accelerator in
connection with hand throttle.
SPRINGS—Front, semi-elliptic; rear, full ellip-
tic and mounted on swivel seats.
FRAME—Pressed steel channel.
AXLES—Front, I-beam, drop-forged; rear,
semi-floating type.
TRANSMISSION—3 speeds forward and reverse ;
sliding gear, selective type.
CONSTRUCTION—Drop-forgings wherever prac-
ticable ; chrome nickel steel used throughout
all shafts and gears in the transmission and
rear axle; high carbon manganese steel in
all parts requiring special stiffness.
BODY—FuII 5-passenger English type; extra
wide seats.
SPECIFICATIONS.
Non-Skid Tyres—32 x Si inch.
12-inch “Hall” Bullet electric headlights, double
parabolic lens.
6-inch “Hall” Bullet electric side lights, with
parabolic lens.
“Exide” 100 ampere-hour electric battery.
Bosch Magneto.
Warner Autometer.
Demountable Rims.
Extra rim and holders.
Tally-ho horn.
Jiffy curtains —Up or down instantaneously
Top and top cover.
Windshield
Rear view mirror.
Tool-kit. jack, tyre repair kit, pump.
Robe rail.
2-Seater, £230
5-Seater, £295
ONE of the best proofs of R-C-H
value is the number of buyers
who heretofore have been
driving cars costing from to
£5
And there’s a good reason for it. You
get in the R-C-H the utmost in comfort,
in looks and in strength. You get power
sufficient to take you and your family
wherever you want to go, and faster
than you’ll ever want to drive. You get
an economy of operation impossible in
the high-prteed car. You get complete
equipment of the best quality. And you
save from £lOO to £2OO.
The easiest way to prove these things
is to let us demonstrate the R-C-H to
you. We’ll do it whenever you’re ready.
And we’re perfectly willing to abide by
your judgment.
Correspondence invited from
responsible dealers in any
vacant territory.
HARRY W. COOPER MOTOR CO., LTD.,
Agents for Australia and Tasmania,
Crystal Palace, SYDNEY.
KERR & STEVENS MOTOR CO., 408-18 Latrobe Street, Melbourne, Sub-agents for Victoria.
BOWEN & TAYLOR, Ltd., 253-259 Elizabeth St., Sydney, Sub-agents for New South Wales.
FOSTER & WELLS, Davey St., Hobart, Sub-agents for Tasmania.
WITTMAN MOTOR SUPPLY CO., Hay St., Perth, Sub-agents for West Australia.
R-C-H CORPORATION, Export Department,
170 LYCASTE STREET, DETROIT, MICHIGAN, U.S.A.
CABLE ADDRESS: “ ROBCHCORP DETROITMICH.” CABLE CODES: Western Union, Lieber’s,
A 1, and ABC 4th and sth editions, % in 1 code condenser.
H
You’ll never make the most of vourself in business —you’ll never look
the man for the big, top job—until you let
CAPILLARINE
give vou a fine, full moustache.
This is a sure moustache-grower, with a record of 30 years’ success
behind it. Get a jar to-day.
PRICE 10/6 JAR, Post Free.
The C. & A. MOUSTACHE TRAINER, worn at night, shapes the moustache.
2/6, 3/6, 5/6 each, Post Free.
Craig &. AitKen,
654 George Street, Sydney
Established 30 Years.
Remington.
Trade 0 J m
~ Anummilion.
~ for any
X-r*
2
1
m
'A
m
WM
V////f
Urn—m
m
f
Ĥ
FemJngtort.-mc Cartridges
are made and tested
for use in every arm
Whether you use a shot-
gun, a rifle, a revolver or a
pistol, of any make or any
calibre, PemlngtonrUMC Cart-
ridges are a guarantee of
maximum efficiency. To
try them is to use them
always. They are the uni-
versal favorites.
Remington:UMC
Arms and Ammunition
For Sale Everywheie
REMINGTON ARMS-UNION METALLIC CARTRIDGE CO.
(M. Hartley Company, Export Agent)
299-301 Broadway. - * New York, U.S.A.
Australian Representative :D. D. BRYANT, Box 686, Q.P.0., Melbourne, [i


London Daily Telegraph, concerning
the battleship Maoriland, “presented” to
Britain :
_ She is charged with the aspirations of the Em-
pire, which is searching for a means of translating
the proverb, “Union is strength,” into terms which
the world will understand.
Well, the strength of the terms is to be found
in the first word of the proverb—lOU.
A British committee is to investigate the
causes of failing eyesight among factory
workers and others engaged on indoor jobs.
Legislation has been passed in most coun-
tries providing that the worker shall have
enough air to breathe, but little interest has
been taken in the matter of light, provided
there seemed to be enough of it to go round.
Yet it is possible to have enough light and
still have the factory or workroom so ar-
ranged as to put the eyes under a perpetual
strain. Some schools in Australia are about
as bad in this respect as anything need be ;
and as Australia wants its young eyes to
look along a rifle, the matter ought to be
seen to.
Missing Friends.
ANDREW MEIN (Guildford, Vic.).—
Estate .business, your advantage, re-
quires attention. Write GERALD NEW-
MAN, Solicitor, 66 Elizabeth Street, Mel-
bourne.
IF the descendants of MARIA ANDREWS,
whose maiden name was MORRISH, for-
merly of Landkey, North Devon, England,
will apply to A. E. HOPPER, Solicitor,
Barnstaple, England, they may hear of
something to their advantage.
MARY WARD. —Information is required as to the
whereabouts of MARY WARD, wife of WIL-
LIAM WARD, formerly of Redfern, Sydney, N.S.W.,
Engineer, or her husband or children, who will hear
something to their advantage by applying to the
Solicitor of The Public Trust Office, Wellington, New
Zealand.
Government Notices.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of the Treasury,
Melbourne, 28th December, 1913.
COUNTERFEIT COINAGE PLANT.
£lOO Reward.
WHEREAS certain imitations of silver
coins have recently been passed into
circulation at Sydney, in the State of New
South Wales : Notice is hereby Aven that a
reward of One hundred pounds will be paid
by the Government of the Commonwealth
for information leading to the apprehension
of the coiners and the discovery of the plant
used in the manufacture of the coins referred
to. The Commonwealth Government will
request the State Government to extend a
full pardon to any accomplice who will give
the desired information. This offer will
remain open for thre months from this
date.
ANDREW FISHER,
Treasurer.
KALQOORLIE TO PORT
AUGUSTA RAILWAY.
SUPPLY AND DELIVERY OF JARRAH
SLEEPERS.
rTUQNDERS will be received until 11
JL a.m. on TUESDAY, the 11th March,
1913, for the supply and delivery of
Three Hundred Thousand (300,000) Sawn
or Hewn Jarrah Sleepers—Dimensions 9ft.
x lOin. x sin., to be of full size, rectangular
in section, cut from large trees and free
from all faults. Price to include delivery
in ships’ slings on railway trucks at Port
Augusta Wharf, but not to include Wharf-
age Charges at Port Augusta.
Alternative quotations may be made for
delivery on trucks alongside ship at Bun-
bury (W.A.).
Tenderers to state date of first delivery,
also rate of subsequent deliveries, and may
tender for the whole or any portion of the
quantity required. No tender necessarily
accepted.
Forms of Tender and Conditions of Con-
tract can be obtained at the office of the
Engineer-in-Chief, Commonwealth Railways
Construction Branch, 84 William Street,
and at the offices of the Commonwealth Pub-
lic Service Inspectors at Adelaide and Perth
respectively.
Tenders should be endorsed, “Tender for
Jarrah Sleepers for Kalgoorlie-Port Augusta
Railway”; to be addressed to “The Secre-
tary, Department of Home Affairs, Mel-
bourne.”
KING O’MALLEY,
Minister of State for Home Affairs.
Amusements.
H
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction .T. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
THE THEATRE COOL AND BEAUTIFUL.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
THE SUNSHINE GIEL.
Played by
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
PLANS AT PALING'S
National, ajiphitheatre, Sydney.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
BRENNAN-FULLER’S VAUDEVILLE CO.
HENRY & MAY, in a Daring, Laughable Cycle Act.
GERTRUDE EMERY, Intrepid Trapezist.
Novelty Ventriloquist, LIEUT. STUFF.
SCHEPP’S NOVELTY CIRCUS.
M A BELLE, Australia’s Danseusp.
Talented Juveniles, THE TIT BITS.
CHAS. VIRGINIA. KING & THORNTON & CO.
Prices : 3/-, 2/-, 1/-, Sd. Saturdays & Holidays, 3/-, 2/-, )/-
AD E IPHI TH E A tITe. SYDNEY.
Direction and Management, Gjsokue Marlow, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
The New & Original Story of London Life, entitled,
THE BEGGAR GIRL’S WEDDING.
Superbly Mounted, Magnificent Scenery,
and Brilliantly Interpreted by
GEORGE MARLOW’S POPULAR DRAMATIC CO.
POPULAR PRICES : 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & 1/-.
PALACE THEAT It E. SVDN E Y.
Direction : WILLIAM ANDERSON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF THE BUSH GIRL.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT,
Mr. William Anderson has much pleasure in announcing
a Grand Production of
THE RRINCE & THE BEGGAR MAID.
PRINCE OLAF .. .. CYRIL'MACK AY.
PRINCESS MONICA .. EUGENIE DUGGAN.
PRICES: 4/-, 2/6 and 1/-.
LYCEUM,
SYDNEY.
-J- H E
SPENCER’S PICTURES LTD.
Direction: C. SPENCER.
THE PREMIERE PICTURE HOUSE IN
AUSTRALIA.
PRICES AND PLAN AS USUAL.
WE CHANGE MONDAYS AND THURSDAYS.
LACIARIUM AND OLYMPIA, SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEE—SATURDAY.
DE GROEN S VICE REGAL ORCHESTRAS.
3d. to 2s. Plan at Nicholson’s (No Extra Fee).
Rickard s’ tivoli theatre.
Personal Direction Mr. HUGH D. McINTOSII.’
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
DE MARLO & LADY, presenting “A Frog’s Paradise.’
MDLLE. RENEE, England’s Refined Instrumentalist.
KITCHEN & FOY, America’s Premier Bar Oomiques.
STALEY & BIRBEOKS, Mysterious Musical Blacksmiths.
MAXINI BROS. & BOBBY, Acrobats and Balancers.
ROSIE LLOYD, Vivacious English Comedienne.
MR. WILL POLUSKI, Creation’s Quaintest Comedian.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
Prices: 5/-, 4/-, 3/- and 1/-
PERA HOUSE,
Personal Direction Mr.
MELBOURNE,
HUGH D. McINTOSII.
CASSIE WALMER, in her latest Novelty Songs.
THE BENI ZOUG ZOUG ARABS, Human Whirlwinds.
THE PATTY-FRANK TROUPE of Continental Acrobats.
MOZZETTO, Juggler and Coin Catcher.
ALEXANDER PRINCE, Concertina Soloist.
GEO. BRYANT & CO. in “Pot Luck.”
NEWMAN & HDUTIES, Comedy Trick Cyclists.
Plan at Allan’s. IWF'PRTCES —35., 25.. Is.
■p HEATRE ROYAL, MELHOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
Magnificent Production of Shakspeare’s Greatest
Comedy
A MIDSUMMER NIGHT’S DREAM-
PRICES —-Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 7/6.
Stalls, 4/-. Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager: William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.50,
First Production in Australia of the Romantic Drama,
THE QUEEN OF THE
HIGHWA Y.
POPULAR PRICES. PLANS AT ALLAN’S.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee: GEO. MARLOW LTD
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
GEORGE MARLOW’S BRILLIANT DRAMATIC CO.
In the Great Controversial Attraction,
THE
THE
M 0 N K AND
WOMAN.
Prices, 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Plan at Pianola Co.
YRIC THEATRE, Chapel St., Praliran, Vic.
- EVERY NIGHT at 8. MATINEE, SATURDAY,
at 2.30.
THE FAMOUS “NON-FLICKER”
PHOTOPLAYS!
on the Marvellous “Mack” Screen, together with the
Superb -LYRIC ORCHESTRA. 6d. to 2s. Flans at
Allan’s. C. M. Read’s and the Lyric Theatre Caf6.
BIRCH&C A R R O L L
(Queensland),
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of which
we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Companv of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office : ROTHWELL CHAMBERS, BRISBANE.
ROYAL
EASTER
SYDNEY
SHOW
18th to 26th MARCH, 1913.
£6OOO PRIZES £6OOO.
GREAT SHOW of LIVE STOCK and AGRICULTURE.
MACHINERY IN MOTION.
MANUFACTURERS OF THE WORLD.
EXCURSION FARES FROM ALL PARTS.
Ocean House, Moore Street, Sydney.
H. M. SOMER, Secretary.
LI ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
LAST NIGHTS
of
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S ANNUAL EXTRAVAGANZA,
PUSS IN BOOTS.
THE LAST WORD IN PANTOMIMES.
Plan at Allan’s. Reserved Seats & Dress Circle. 6/-
Follies theatre, st. kilda.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.30.
T HE S M A R T S E T.
(Direct from London.)
WALTER GEORGE’S ORIGINAL MUSICAL
COMBINATION. ALWAYS ARTISTS.
CHANGE OF PROGRAMME EVERY FRIDAY.
PRICES: 21- (reserved), 1/6, 1/-, and 6d.
Box Plan at Allan’s, Lily Brayton Floral Studio, St. Hilda
’Phone • H. J. BEACIIAM, Manager.
MR. EDWARD BRANSCOMB E’S
EIVE COMPANIES OF
DANDIES.
EVERY EVENING.
CREMORNE GARDENS, BRISBANE, at 8.30.
“ARCADIA” (late Royal Yacht Club), opp. the Pier,
ST. KILDA, at 8.30.
EDEN GARDENS, MANLY, at 8.5.
EXHIBITION GARDENS, ADELAIDE.
PRINCESS CO T ’RT, ROCKHAMPTON, NIGHTLY.
Direction amalgamated pictures
ltd.
Melbourne’s Latest and Finest Picture Palace.
THE MAJ I' STIC THEATRE.
FLINDERS STREET, opp. Princes Bridge Station.
Continuous MatinC-es Daily from 12 to 6 o'clock.
3d., 6d. and 1/-
Evening Prices: 2/-, 1/6, 1/- and 6d. Plan at Allan’s.
OLYMPIA. OLYMPIA.
L Y M P I A. MELBOURNE.
(Just across Princes Bridge).
WHERE ARE TO BE SEEN THE UNRIVALLED
SPENCER’S PICTURES.
POPULAR PRICES* "FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS AT 2.30.
EVERY NIGHT AT 8.
UDEST’S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
THE BEST WEST’S PJ C 1 Uli ES THK j}|. ;s r
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8. Matinfees Wednesdays, Saturdays,
and All Holidays at 3-80.
The Greatest Pictorial Entkui’li/sk; in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be
seen at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change
every week. Prices—6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
Last 27 Days
of this Offer.
After March 31 this offer, which ha* u
so phenomenally successful, will vJ > Deen
tinued. You can’t afford to delay mu
longer but should at once get together
your old, worn, disused and defective pm;„ U
Records, and change them for S on « ”
this plan:— on
Threepence (3d.) for one
Edison Standard Record.
Fourpence (4d.) for one
Edison Amberol Record.
old
old
The above allowance to be given, providing
one Edison Amberol Record be purchased frs
each old Record returned. Look up your nla
Records at once, and any authorised EdiZ
dealer will exchange them for you on th
above terms.
New Records
for Old Ones
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale only),
Dept. B, 364-372 KENT STREET, SYDNEY
rtllXPf
Fits “Wonder” has
No “Bromide of Potash"
Safe, Certain Cure-
-6 Bottles posted 17/2,
Write for particulars—
T. H. MERSON,
229 Collins St.,Melbourne
VICTORIA.
For Sale.
LITTLE, GOLD MINE.
FOR SALE, Superior Fruiterer’s, Con-
fectioner’s, Aerated Water Business,
best position main street Wagga Wagga!
connected with commodious Tea and Dining
Rooms. Walk in walk out basis; takings
up to £320 monthly, first-class going con-
cern, with capable staff. For details, price,
terms, etc., apply J. J. JEREMY and Co.,
Wagga.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Lessee .. .. J. 0. WILLIAMSON LTD.
Sub-Lessee WALTER BENTLEY.
A NOTABLE EVENT.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT, MARCH 1.
WALTER BENTLEY,
Supported by a Powerful Company, in Shakspeare’s Sublime Tragedy,
HAMLET.
PRICES: 4/-, 2/6, 1/- BOX PLAN AT PALING’S,
Preeminent
as the Queen of Dress Fabrics is the
LOUIS
VELVETEEN,
with all its charming lustrous
finish; draping exquisitely to suit
the clinging fashions of the day—
yet sold at a price within the
reach of all.
DO NOT TOLERATE A SUBSTITUTE.
Every Yard you buy
should be stamped L'O’IH'S
The First Successful Self-Filling Fountain Pen.
Always the Leader, Without a Peer.
Ħ
Every shop should have our line of Automatic self=
Filling Fountain Pens. “ The A. A.” is the one
pen for which there is no substitute. Its self-filling
feature is unique and so far superior to any other on
the market that it is the pen for all.
Fitted with i4kt. gold pens, any style or size, in plain, chased
or mottled holders, or mounted in sterling silver filigree, gold-
filled and mother of pearl —handsome and serviceable.
The cut herein also shows the newly patented “A.A. Clip
attached to the cap of the pen. It holds perfectly firm) an
can be attached almost instantly.
If you cannot secure “ The A.A.” Automatic Self
Filling Fountain Pen, with the “A.A.” Clip at your shop,
write for prices to
RYAN, LEWIS (Sl CO. Pty., Ltd.,
521 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sole Agents for Australasia and New Zealand of the
ARTHUR A. WATERMAN COMPANY, New York, U.S.A.
WATERMAN CO. 1
NOT CONNECTED WITH THE L. E.


m
! «V
Demand
Burke's
&VS.
£r w£r Irish I
Wmske
-
The World-wide
Whiskey
as*
CENIW
5?
u
€£B
Fine OidlrishWhiske^
Bottled, Corked & Capsuled by u 5
A biolwU|y Trustworthy
J OllAi iTvnmAi ir anul TMt WOSI-
*P»oluUly Trustworthy .
J f AHt Quautv-nißoucKOui
m
Exquisitely mellow,
delicate In flavour,
light and digestive.
E. & J. Burke, Ltd., Dublin.
Capital £1,100,000. Est. 1849.
By far the largest Shippers JH?
b, of Bottled Whiskey a 0&
%. from Dublin. Jjff
//*v
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Princiole.
HAB M QTVTTIY TO T.HTMTI ° n Security or Freehold or Leaseholi
-*-* ■*• A U JJXjXVX/ City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand IsPST* AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
DiRECTOHS—The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; Tne
Hon. James Burns, M.L.C. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.O. ; The Hon. F. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C. ; Adrian Knox,
K.C. ; Alex. MacCortniok, Esq., M.D. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Tee -e, F.1.A., F.F.A.. F.S.B.
EAD OFFICE : 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. H. \V. APPERLY, Secretary.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dog’s Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
BUILT TO BEAT THE BAND
«J THE BESSES O’
THE BARN have
gone but the Besses o’
the Pocket have come
to stay.
H
4] 7'lie Feeds are mads
of Bell Metal, and
are tuned to Perfec-
tion.
Crackajack
Mouth
Organs
MADE IN SIX STYLES
Crackajack Professional 40 Reeds, 3/- Crackajack Double, 40 Reeds,... 1/-
Crackajack Senior, 20 Reeds, . . . 2/- Boss Cracker, 20 Reeds 1/-
Crackajack Junior, 20 Reeds, . . . 1/6 Crackajack Cadet, 20 Reeds. . . . 6d
SOLD EVERYWHERE
Sole Agents
Allan & Co. pty. lm.
Melbourne, Adelaide
Bendgo & Geelong
PUMPS WATER
DAY AND NIGHT
AUTOMATICALLY.
GET OUR FREE TRIAL
OFFER.
Low in first cost, easy to instal, no expense to operate, any
capacity desired for Country Homes, Farms, Dairies,
Gardens, Irrigation, Town Plants, Railroad Tanks, etc.
RIFE HYDRAULIC RAMS
RAISE WATER 30 FEET for EVERY FOOT OF FALL.
Satisfaction Guaranteed. Over 7000 in use.
If there is a stream, spring or pond within a mile
WRITE FOR FREE PLANS and BOOK.
2613 Trinity Bldg.
RIFE ENGINE CO. New York.
Rest and Comfort
for
the mother, and health for the baby follow the
use of the ‘Allenburys’ Foods. They resemble
healthy human milk, in composition, nutri-
tive value and digestibility. Babies fed on
the ‘Allenburys’ Foods invariably thrive well.
. PAMPHLET on infant FEEDING -
and management free.
MILK FOOD No. 1.
From birth to 3 months.
MILK FOOD No. 2.
From 3 to 6 months.
MALTED FOOD NO. 3.
From 6 months upwards.
The ‘Allenburys’ Rusks
(Malted).
A valuable addition to the baby’s dietary when
ten months old and after. They provide an
excellent, nourishing and appetising meal,
specially useful during the troublesome time
of teething. Eaten dry they mechanically aid
the cutting of teeth.
Ltd., London, England, and Market Street, Sydney.
Allen a Hanburys
•Sllenburys Foods
Ĥ
The “ LISTER”
Petrol Engine
BRITISH BUILT.
21, 4. 6, 8 &■ H.p.
Stationary and Portable.
Fitted with Bosch High Tension Magneto
Ignition and Automatic Lubrication.
STARTS INSTANTLY AND EASILY.
SAFE :: ECONOMICAL :: DURABLE.
Agents —
DANGAR, GEDYE & CO., SYDNEY.
WINCHCOMBE CARSON, LTD., BRISBANE.
HUTCHINSON HUNT, MELBOURNE.
MALLOCH, BROTHERS, PERTH.
LEVIN & COMPANY, LTD.,WELLINGTON, N.Z.
SOLE MAKERS.
R. A. LISTER & Co., Ltd., Dursley, Eng.
ARE YOU
DEAF?
If you are deaf, or going deaf, you will be glad to
hear of a simple and scientific device which restores
hearing, no matter how old you are. No mystery or
secrecy about it; we describe it fully, and explain
just how it acts. You use spectacles as sight magni-
fiers, and in the same way you use this sound magni-
fier to hear better. Unlike spectacles, the Wilson
Common-sense Ear-Drums are invisible and comfort-
able. No one can tell you are wearing them. They
rest the ear nerves by taking the strain off them —the
strain of trying to hear indistinct sounds. What a
relief to have done with that tiring strain. Being
made of the softest Para rubber they cannot be felt,
even when the head rests on a pillow. For the same
reason, a blow on the side of the head will not hurt
the ear. They protect the tender inner parts of the
ear, that are so sensitive, from cold winds, dust, sud-
den and piercing sounds.
So that you may clearly understand how the Sound
Magnifiers restore hearing, we give an illustration of
one as it lies in the ear. You will notice that the
Sound Magnifier is shaped like a trumpet, and so con-
veys even the faintest sounds right to the natural drum.
Being of the softest rubber, it cannot hurt the ear.
It fits the orifice of the ear
with precision and comfort.
The division that runs
across the mouth is to al-
low the removal and inser-
tion of the Ear-Drum, and
to brace it.
The shape of the Wilson
Ear-Drum has been chosen
after years of experience as
the best adapt-
ed to carry the
faintest sound.
Of course, if
you have lost
the h e a r i ng-
nerve co m-
pletely, or were
born deaf, we
cannot pretend
to cure you. Only a miracle could
do that, in spite of some of the
absurd claims made to-day. But
of you can hear the faintest sound,
do not despair. You will never
regret trying the Wilson Ear-
Drums. We have letters to show
you from deaf people in Australia
and New Zealand, who have been
cured, and you can be cured, too. You may wear
the Ear-Drums day and night, and take them out
whenever you wish. Children can wear them (we
have special sizes for children from six to twelve).
Even a child can insert and remove them without the
least danger.
The price is £1 (the fee for a doctor’s single
visit). This includes a pair of drums (they are only
sold in pairs), a fine nickel remover, and also an
inserter. After the first pair is bought you may pur-
chase a single drum at any time for Bs., but the
pair you get at first will last quite two years. Do
not ask for a trial pair. We do not send them out
on trial, and so they are never secondhand. Use the
Order form below, and the Outfit will be sent you
at once, with the fullest instructions. Don’t delay,
but have the comfort of good hearing as soon as you
can.
OHDEKPOHM.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
103 Arlington Chambers,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please send me an Outfit containing a pair of
Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums, an Inserter and a
Remover, for which I enclose One Pound.
Name
Address
NOTE. —Send Money Order or Postal Note. If a
Bank Note or Sovereign is sent, you must register it.
&<?
<v
0
►►►►
ALE
Insist on
i FOSTERS
A. THE REASON IS
SIMPLE.
THERE’S NO OTHER
JUST AS GOOD.
►►►
* Bugle
Brand*
To Printers!
OWING to the introduction of linotype
machinery we have for disposal an
assortment of news type (Miller and
Richard), in case and in good condition.
The following sample faces are offered at
the prices quoted :
About 4001 b. io-pt. Old Style...i/-lb.
About 4001 b. 8-pt. Old Style i/- lb.
About 8001 b. Minion (Plenty of Figures), lOd. lb.
About 6001 b. Nonparikl Cheap at 1/- lb.
Also the following Jobbing Type :
About 1201 b. 8-pt. Cushing 9d. lb.
About 40lb. 8-pt. Cushing Italic 9d. lb.
About 1501 b. 8-pt. Jensen Cheap at 9d. lb.
LARGE QUANTITY OF TYPE
CASES in good condition., at 1/6 each.
THE BULLETIN NEWS CO. LTD.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
racism
p ■ ■
buy direct
FROM FACTORY.
and we guarantee you a saving of at least
£lO. All goods sent freight free. 12 years’
warranty. A postcard will bring you our
Catalogue. Established 1875.
BANDON & STEEDMAN,
76 Finsbury Pavement, London, England.
Apply for Free Catalogue to Mr. F.
Williams, Post Office, Parramatta, N.S.W.
WE SAVE YOU POUND
m
i


Ħ
of Quality
and Stability.
V.
-M
ISAAC HOLLIS 8 SONS’ “ THE RELIABLE ” D.8.8.L. Gun,
12-gauge, top lever, bar action, 30in. real twist or steel
barrels, Greener cross bolt, both choke, rebounding locks, ,
snap fore-end, chambered for 2fin. cartridges, weight from / Jib. to 741 b. Guaranteed
for all Smokeless Powders, half-pistol grip, walnut-stock. -CQ 12& Scf
DELI V EKED, ,
r
y.WA
' J&J
ill
! ! !! !
»
SMK3
**&*
C. H. Crawford’s D.8.8.L. Gun,
12- or 16-gauge, top lever,' double bolt. 30in. barrels,
left choke, pistol grip, walnut stock, scroll engraved, bar locks, nitro proof, weight
of 12-gauge, about 711 b. ; of 16-gauge, about 6Jlb. ; 4 _#
Greener cross-bolt. DELIVERED, 9^Cmm
H
Send for our Price List of
Guns, Rifles and Ammunition.
Post Free Anywhere.
“The Continental " D.8.8.L. EJECTOR Gun,
12- or 16-gauge, top lever, 30-inch Siemen’s steel barrels, both choke,
Greener cross bolt, rebounding bar locks, extension rib, pistol walnut
stock, snap fore-end ; weight—l2-gauge, about 71b.; 16-gauge, about 6£lb. Delivered, £3jlsj m
Ĥ
GUN REPAIRS
a Speciality.
All kinds of Gun
Parts in stock.
DOMOULINS’ D.8.8.L. GUN,
12-gauge, top lever, 30in. real twist barrels,
choke, side clips, square Greener cross bolt,
highly engraved, pistol grip, walnut stock,
weight about 71b., patent fore-end. POST FREE, £4.
MICK SIMMONS LTD
The BEST HOUSE for all SHOOTING REQUISITES,
Head Depot: Haymarket, Sydney, N.S.W.
Branches:
City, Suburbs & Newcastle.
Ħ
The All-Australasian-Wool Hosiery with the
softness of silk. And unshrinkable, too !
If only you knew the soft silky fleeciness of you
would not be satisfied until you wore them. They are a
revelation in footwear. All-wool, rendered absolutely un-
shrinkable by the p'rocess, which retains the natural
softness of the fleece. They never shrink —never become
too small to wear like ordinary hosiery does. Made to fit
snugly and dyed with fast sanitary dyes. cost no
more than the other kind, so why not have .
"jjfffjLirr'i' Stockings. Socks, and Underwear for Men, Ladies, and Children
In all prices. made Jerseys for children are splendid
wear. Of Men’s Outfitters, Drapers, and Stores. If your dealer does
not stock he can ODtain it from his wholesale house.
In ease oj difficulty write for “Jason ” booklet and name of nearest agent to
Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, England. <3
Socks and
Stockings.
H
NEW SEAM SANITARY GAN
FOR FOOD
PRODUCTS.
The Entire Top Open.
Sealed without Heat, Solder or Objectionable Fluxes.
IT OUR NEW AUTOMATIC DOUBLE SEAMER will
readily handle over 2000 ends hourly, and may be operated
by a boy. Our machines are made for all kinds and sizes
of cans. Will stand both retort and bath processing.
Cheap, more attractive, wholesome and better. Send for
our Catalogue.
IT The machine meeting with the greatest success in Aus-
tralia, South Africa and America.
IT AMS INCLINABLE POWER PRESSES, for stamping
all kinds of metal work. They are not surpassed by any-
thing in the market.
We Furnish Complete Outfits for Making These Cans.
Max Ams Machine Co.
Mt. Vernon, New York, U.S.A.
EUROPEAN AGENCY: C. GUELPA di L., Corso Dante, 41, Torino, Italy.
Ĥ
Drink Wisely
NTSERR
Lime-fruit Juice.
I don’t care two straws for any but
MONTSERRAT Lime Juice.
It’s a fine healthy, cooling, and refresh-
ing drink, and keeps me fit in the hot
weather.
MONTSERRA T is sold by
ail U a- ins Ston keepers.
DINNEFORD'S,
» Magnesia
DINNEFORD’S
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see that
“Dinneford &Co."
is on every bottle
and label.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Bemedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horsf,, Is. Ventriloquism Made East, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is id Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, os 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Cali, Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is 3d. Parlor Tricks and
Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, Is 2d. All Thu
Biillf,tin series. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales, Is 3d.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle's Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Australian Pastrycook's Guide, Is 6d.
S 3
m
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
BMBRACINB
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.**!
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, os 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easj-, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
os 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others ana
save your cash. Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS A DVT.
Write lor my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Mark Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 93 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the Kino,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post.
Ingkrsoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Bead Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ohbvassk’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.
Bennarr Macfadden’s Works, all at 5s posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, Is post. 100 new
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness an
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leaune
uound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay_3 and
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Univers.
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, clot >
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of ClairvoyaN
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and nausicco '
plete), is 6d posted. Thi Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY-


The Talented § Charming Young Artiste,
Miss Dolly Nepean, Praises Rexona Soap
Miss. Dolly Nepean, late of the Melbourne Grand Opera Co., is one of
Australia’s most charming and clever young artistes. By many critics she is
credited with being one of the cleverest young dancers who has ever appeared
upon the Sydney stage. This bright young lady tells in the following interesting
letter her opinion of Rexona Skin and Facial Soap:—
Ħ
Miss Dolly Nepean (from a Monteath photo.)-
I feel so grateful for the benefit
I have received from the use of
Rexona Skin and Facial Soap that
I think I ought to tell my friends
how good it is. For over a year
now I have been constantly using
Rexona Soap, and no matter how
I expose my complexion, I find it
all right if I use Rexona Soap.
For the hair it is unsurpassed, it
shampoos so beautifully and
makes the hair so soft and glossy.
I often wonder how 1 got along
without Rexona Soap before.
Many of my girl friends are also
using Rexona Soap, and there is
not one of them that does not
praise it. With kindest wishes for
Rexona,
Sincerely yours,
(Signed) DOLLY NEPEAN.
REXONA SOAP FOR HEALTH AND BEAUTY.
Rexona Soap Isas sweet,
wholesome and pure" as
the mountain dew. Touse
it for the dally bath, or
even to wash the hands
and face with, is to fur-
nish the skin with atonic
and antiseptic of unques-
able value.
Rexona Skin and Facial
Soap is a Refreshing,
Soothing, Healing, Anti-
septic Soap, medicated on
the same principle as the
famous RexonaOintment.
Price 1/- per Tablet.
»
&
1
A
SOAP
ED\CATtO
!|jS%'REFRESHINC SOOTHING
T HEALING ANTISEPTIC SOAP %=*
medicated on the same principle
§L AS THE FAMOUS REXCHft OjNTM fc N^
kSHI
Schute, Bell & Co.
LIMITED,
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS,
44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WOOL STORES Harris Street, Pyrmont.
Sell on Commission only.
New and thoroughly up-to-
date Stores. Inspection
invited. Personal atten-
tion a feature of the
business.
A Steadily growing com-
pany.
PRODUCE STORES—Athlone Place.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
HOLLOWAY’S
Pills <a Ointment
A TRIAL of HOLLOWAY'S PILLS has meant
The Dawning' * Brighter Day
to many a sufferer from liver, kidney and stomach
troubles. For over three-score years and ten they
have been supreme in all cases of biliousness,
headache, indigestion, depression and other com-
plaints which usually arise from constipation.
You should also use HOLLOWAY'S OINT-
MENT, which possesses remarkable healing
virtues in cases of skin affections and sores,
rheumatism, lumbago, sciatica, etc. See to
it that you always have a box and pot handy.
To be obtained from all Chemists, Stores,
Manufactured only at
113 SOUTHWARK ST. (late 78 New Oxford St.), LONDON, S.E.
Old John the Hermit.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
fINHERE was a pious patriarch,
I When I was quite a lad,
Who lived the cave life in a park
In rags and whiskers clad.
He stalked abroad on sunny days
And worried youthful sports
By warning them to mend their ways
And snorting holy snorts.
His staff with bright barbed wire was tied,
So he was greatly feared ;
And none his warnings dared deride,
Though all in secret jeered.
“Old John the Hermit,” he was called ;
About the life he led
He wrote long articles as bald
As his tall, egg-shaped head.
“Myself—My Soul” —on such a theme
He would enlarge for weeks
And revel in “The Spirit’s Dream—
Soul Essence—How It Leaks.”
He did a wondrous trade in Soul
With “Those Who Are in Doubt” ;
Fools waited humbly at his hole
Until he should come out.
When after hours and hours he came
Out of his draughty den.
He only cried : “Wealth —Glory—Fame !”
And then went in again.
Whene’er one ventured to intrude
To ask him what he meant,
The Hermit was extremely rude,
But still magnificent.
“Hence. Doubter, hence ! The Grave !
The Grave!”
Or “Who mocks Death? Beware!’’
The fool rushed headlong from the cave
Into the open air.
But ere he fled this counsel strange,
Into the begging bowl
He dropped a handful of small change
For his supply of Soul.
John’s vogue grew greater as he aged,
And ruder grew and stout;
Fool controversies round him raged ;
No fool could make him out.
They started then a magazine,
And once a month it taught
Of how “The Master” had been seen
Full of tremendous thought.
Sometimes “The Master’s” whiskers waved
Upon the title page ;
’Twas always splendidly engraved
And titled thus: The Sage.
His contributions —all in “caps”—
Were starred upon Page Two,
Under the heading “Thunderclaps !
My Soul —-A Distant View.”
Each convert panted as he read
About The Master’s Soul.
(It sent one grocer off his head
And drove him up the pole.)
But other fools with larger brains
Remained on earth intent,
And regularly missed last trains
Explaining what He meant.
But all agreed the whiskered one
Had solved all mysteries,
Possessed of brain about a ton
And held Life’s secret keys.
One morning as the Sage reclined
Upon his granite seat,
A female who “just worshipped Mind”
Crept humbly to his feet.
She told him she was after Truth —
A Helpless W T retch in Doubt;
Her hair was down, she’d lost her youth,
Her Soul refused to sprout.
So thickly did she lay it on,
The Hermit said at last
He’d ponder massively upon
The problem—yes, and fast.
With that he rose and sought his cave
To analyse his Soul,
Making an inclination grave
Towards his begging bowl.
The Soul in Doubt dropped in a cheque
And cried “O Happy Day!”
Old John stretched forth his arm and neck
And snaked the bowl away.
An interval of hours went by
Before the Sage came out;
He looked the female in the eye
And roared : “No longer doubt.
“Get you a robe and follow me
To take the faithful’s dole !
My first disciple shalt thou be.
And bear the begging bowl!’
Next day the Hermit took the air,
The female walked behind ;
His whiskers and her unbound hair
Waved nobly in the wind.
The sight electrified the park,
And one unlettered churl
Cried suddenly : “Hi! ’ere’s a lark .
The ’Ermit’s gotter girl!’
But still the pair did not turn back,
Though both were seen to start.
Till someone in the front said, JacK,
Where didger get th’ tart ?
Old John the Hermit raised his staff,
His brow as thunder black ;
The crowd fled from him with a laugn
And gaily called him “Jack . ’
Then someone threw banana skin,
And others bits of bark ;
Then nearly ev’ryone joined in
And chased them o’er the park.
“Old Jack” and his disciple sped
Like rabbits to their lair;
Pursuers aimed at his bald head
And bade her bind her hair.
They got to ground at last. The mob
Stood round and made a row.
Till some stout copper found the job
And growled : “Goo wan there now .
For three drear days the couple stayed
In their obscurity:
Then some religious paper made
A grave discovery.
It asked: “Is John the Hermit wed,
Or does he live in Sin?”
Then Mrs. Grundy raised her head
And made a frightful din.
At once a moral army marched
Out to the draughty cave,
Its manner, like its collar, starched
The dwellers’ Souls to save.
And when the patriarchal John
Beheld the holy mass
And cried: “What mission come ye on?”
It sighed at him : “Alas !”
The Hermit purpled where he stood
And shook his wire-wound pole.
“O Man!” they droned, “ that is no good !
We come to save your Soul!”
“My soul’s my own to save!” he yelled.
“I saved it long ago!
Get out !” The awful staff he held
Went whistling to and fro.
“This is your wedding day!” they cried,
“Begone ! !” was his reply ;
The leader of the army sighed:
“Jack” smote him in the eye.
The army squealed and at him ran,
Then over him careered.
He rose a dazed and humble man
With mud upon his beard.
They showed him what the press had said
And told him sundry tales;
Meekly at last his bride he led
Unto the altar rails.
So they were wed and left the cave
Some better home to seek;
They got a cottage called “The Nave”
At fifteen bob per week.
And thereabout the cult expired ;
The good old begging bowl
Stood empty ; not a fool desired
To learn about thp Soul.
The magazine no more came out
With pictures of “The Sage”;
There was a scarcity of Doubt,
But lots of debt and rage.
To fortune-telling by the card
The she-disciple took;
“The Master” loafed in the backyard
Reading some trashy book.
But often he would heave a sigh
And d—n the rented hutch.
Saying he had been ruined by
The cheap suburban touch.
N.S.W.
KODAK.
Not Right in His Head.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
STINKER WILLIAMS had become re-
flectively silent. So quiet was he
that for a time he almost ceased to
exist as far as the other “vags” were con-
cerned.
“Asleep, Stinker?” somebody asked at
last.
“I was on’y finkin’,” said Stinker.
At this there was a hubbub of sarcastic
remarks, due to the fact that Stinker was
more noted for talk than for thought. He
took it all unconcernedly.
“Be quiet a while, blokes,” said the one
who had first called attention to Stinker.
“Let’s hear what he has to say.”
“I wuz on’y finkin’ about a bloke wot got
me beat onct,” he said. “Rummiest bloke
ever I struck.”
The group of derelicts waited expect-
antly, but Stinker reflected some more, and
when he spoke he seemed to get right away
from the point.
“Melbourne isn’t in it with Sydney for
bummin’,” he said. “Before yous know where
yous are the John Dunns are onter yer
trail. They gives yer 24 hours to do er
bunk.”
“Is that wot the cow was thinkin
about?” said a disgusted individual who had
expected something different.
“I mention that,” said Stinker, quietly,
“becos that is ’ow I come to meet the un-
usual bloke.”
“Spit it out. Spit it out,” yelled an im-
patient bull-necked vagrant.
“You go to blazes,” said Stinker. “Who
are yer talkin’ ter? Two pins I’d shut up.”
“Never mind ’im,” said another bummer,
conciliatingly.
“He gets onter me nerves, said Stinker.
“Fair gives me the ’ump. It’s iggerance.
Don’t know ’ow he wuz brought up. En
jest as I wuz goin’ ter tell somefing serious,
somefing wif a funeral in it.” He reflected
a second or two. “If there wuzn’t a funeral
there oughter bin.” Then, after another
pause: “Might a bin a funeral for all I
knows. . , , .
“He wuz a unusual bloke that. My oat,
’e took the bun all right. I wuz comin
back w’en I meets him”
“Coming back?” said the man with the
bull neck, inquiringly.
“From Melbourne, blast yer! said Stin-
ker, irritably. “Didn’t I tell yer the slops
give yer 24 hours to do a bunk? The bloke
wuzn’t a bummer, but ’e wuz fair on his
uppers, en ’ungry, en before we’d bin an
hour paddin’ along togevver I could see 1 d
’ave ter get shot of ’im. Ard enough bum
min’ for yerself along that road. I wuz
never keen on the bush meself, but wot
little I seed of it I soon gripped that if yer
didn’t want ter starve yer’d want to keep
off the main roads, en ter ave a bloke wit
yer who would ravver starve than ask tor a
bit of scran —well, it wuz no cop.
“Well, jest as I wuz wonderin ow 1
could get shot of ’im, wevver to pretend I
wuz balmy or tell him straight I wuz fair
sick of ’im, ’e told me ’e ’ad half a crown,
earned ’onestly a-puttin’ up a fowl- ouse for
the Christmas poultry for a woman, en e
says ’e’d get some tucker wif it, en first
nub we’d ’ave a beer a-piece.
“It didn’t take me long to see e wuz wot
they calls a gentleman. ’E wuz very nuiet,
en spoke c’rectly, en never contradicted yer,
en gave way for yer to pass fust, en useter
say ‘Please’ en ‘fank yer.’ en if ’e wanted
ter laugh at yer ’e’d always wait till yer
wuzn’t lookin’, en I gave up finkin I d get
shot of him, en stick to im like grim deaf.
Mv oaf, ’e wuz a fair cop.
“We ’ad the beers. Or, ravver, I did, be-
cos ’e on’v sipped his, en I pretended after
(Continued on next page.)


9
H
KEEP ZAM-BUK ALWAYS BY YOU
A 1,1, classes of workers stand in daily need of Zam-Buk’s soothing and
healing aid. A cut, bruise, knock or pinch may not seem 0 f much
account when the first pain has passed away, but unless the injured
place is dressed with Zam-Buk there remains the great danger that dirt
and disease germs will get into the wound and set up inflammation
festering, blood-poison, or skin disease, that may mean months of suffering
and compulsory idleness.
If, however, Zam-Buk is at once smeared over a cut or bruise, the
balm’s juices soothe the pain, fortify the injury against germ atttacks,
and ensure rapid and perfect healing. .
As an insurance against festering and poisoned wounds, a pot of this
powerful germicide and healer should always be kept handy in cupboard,
tool-bag or pocket. '
engineers painful wound.
Developed into Inflamed, Festered, Running Sores.
Mr. P. Walter, of 108 North Terrace, Adelaide (S.A.), who is an
engineer, says: “I sustained a severe burn on my arm by coming in
contact with the side of a furnace. The injury
caused me intense pain. The wound became
inflamed, and soon was in a terrible state.
Complications set in and festers started, and
the inflammation increased. I applied many
well-known remedies, but things grew worse.
“Little blisters formed, which gradually
merged to great running sores, from which
matter flowed freely. My arm was in a very
bad state when a friend recommended Zam-
Buk. I followed his advice, and felt a sooth
ing sensation after the first few applications.
The excessive pain ceased and the burning in-
flammation died away. I continued with Zam-
Buk until the wound was completely healed,
and I was able to use my arm agaim feince
that time I have often used Zam-Buk for
burns, knocks and cuts, and it has not failed
me once.”
Zam-Buk is invaluable for eczema, P' l
ingworm ulcers, bad legs, sores, old
wounds, diseased ankles, blood
sracked skin, sore feet, scabs ; '* cb : c All
-leads, cuts, burns, bruises, scalds, etc. All
:hemlsts and stores at 1/6 and 3/6 per po .
Mr. Walter
who speaks in 'praise
of Znm-Buk.
Colic, Diarrhoea and Dysentery
Are diseases that require immediate attention. In almost every neighbourhood
someone has died from these diseases before medicine could be procured or a
physician summoned.
Those who rely upon physicians often find that they are away from home when
most needed.
Every family, and especially those who reside in the back blocks, should keep
at hand a bottle of Chamberlain’s Colic & Diarrhoea Remedy.
No physician can prescribe a better medicine for the purpose for which it is
intended. It is invaluable for both children and adults.
w
n
m
•a?
“ I am pleased to say that I have found Chamberlain’s
Tablets a wonderful remedy for biliousness, sick head-
ache and pains in the kidneys. I suffered many a day
and night from these complaints until one day I saw
Chamberlain’s Tablets advertised in the paper for the
cure of biliousness and thought I would give them a
trial. I am pleased to say that they gave such
satisfaction that I feel a new woman since taking them.
I cannot say too much about Chamberlain’s Tablets.
I have recommended them to others and they would not
be without them now for any money.”
Mrs. Edith Wall, Clermont, Q*
I’d drunk ’em bof that I’d made a mistake
—fought the other one wuzViine; but ’e
said not to mention it. En yer bet yer life
w’en we got the prog I knowed ’e wuz too
much of a gentleman to bif me if I ate me
own share en most of his too., I fought ’e
wuz a fair cop, en ’e wuz, en no error.
‘Don’t mention it,’ he kept sayin’.
“I tole yer wot an ’ungry track we wuz
on. Well, that bloke did a awful perish.
Sometimes I useter go a bit ’ungry meself,
but not much, becos, yer see, ’e alius useter
share ennyfing ’e got, en ’e useter get a job
now en again.”
“’Ow did yer manage yerself, Stinker?”
“I useter tell ’im to go ahead en we’d
meet later on,” explained Stinker. “Or I’d
go on ahead while ’e looked for work. Some-
times I’d git tucker w’en we wuz togevver, but
I’d wolf it before ’e knowed I ’ad ennyfing.
He seemed such a d— —- fool that I begun
to ’ate him like poison, en I told ’im fings I
wonder ’e didn't stiffen me. en w’en ’e
didn’t, I fought ’e must be frightened.”
Stinker looked thoughtful a moment or so.
“But ’e wuzn’t frightened,” he said slowly.
“I found that out before long, en I found
out ’e could use his ’ands. We ’ad a scrap
at last, en I fought I’d struck an ’urricane.
Yer see, we’d bin let sleep at a farmer’s in
the ’ay-loft one wet night, en there wuz a
bit of calico which I fought would come in
’andy for a tent, en w’en we’d got on five
miles I told ’im wot I’d got, en ’e wanted
me to take it back.”
“And you didn’t?” said one of the vag-
grants.
“Didn’t I?” said Stinker. “Not ’alf.
W’en I found out ’ow ’e could hit the dis-
tance didn’t seem so far, en we bof went
back, en the unusual bloke told the farmer
I’d taken it be mistake, en ’e apologised
for me.
“I couldn’t make ’ead nor tail of ’im after
that. He wuz a marvel. Fancy a bloke
who could walk rings round yer en hit yer
wherever ’e wanted ter, en you ’elpless agin’
’im, atakin’ of a back seat en excusin’ ’im-
self for bein’ on the earf all the time. Gifts
is fair frown away on some blokes.”
Stinker paused so long that it seemed he
had finished with the subject, when some-
body said :—-
“But didn’t I ’ear yer say there wuz a
funeral in it?”
Stinker looked very thoughtful.
“Yes, but I didn’t mean ter tell yer about
it; but, after all, I don’t see w’y I shouldn’t.
It wuzn’t my funeral.”
“Gome on, spit it out,” grunted the bull-
necked vagrant.
“I tole yers about it raining, en me takin’
of the calico for a tent?” he asked. “Well,
if we’d kept that calico it woulder bin or-
right, but instead we ’ad ter sleep wherever
we got a chanct to keep dry. One night we
slep’ under a railway bridge on a bit of a
rise. Yer see. it wuz the on’y dry place w*e
could get wifout enny stones, en we wuz
sheltered be one of the pillars of the bridge.
In the night I woke up afeelin’ a funny
feelin’ all a-comin’ over of me, en suddenly
I jumped up en found it wuz water. The
river wuz up, en there we wuz on a bit of a
island wif the water jest beginnin’ to cover
the last dry spot.
“ ‘Seems to me, Mr. Williams,’ he says,
‘that we are in a bit of a fix.’ En then ’e
says: ‘Kin yer swim?’ En I says ‘No.’
En I asks, ‘Kin you?’ En ’e says, ‘Not a
stroke. I wuz finkin’ if you could swim,
Mr. Williams, that you might git ashore en
bring assistance.’
“To tell the truf, I could swim a little,
but I wuzn’t goin’ to tell ’im I could, for I
guessed wot ’e’d be a-askin’ of me, en I
wuzn’t exactly an hero to try en git over to
the bank in a flood like that. I wuzn’t
takin’ chances, not me.
“ ‘Better wait till mornin’ en trust ter
luck,’ I says.
“ ‘The water’s risin’,’ ’e says. ‘En before
mornin’ comes it will be too late,’ ’e says.
‘Pity one of us can’t swim,’ ’e says sorrow-
fully. .
“As the water wuz comm up over our
ankles, en then over our knees, ’e gives me
a lecture on the vally of bein’ able to swim,
en ’e says: ‘lf you gits out of this, Mr.
Williams, en ever comes to marry, en to
’ave children, let this be a warnin’ to yer,
en ’ave them all taught ter swim.’
“W’en the water wuz to our waists en
runnin’ so strong we could ’ardly keep our
feet, ’e says, ‘lf on’y somefing would come
in our reach which we could git onter. Keep
yer eyes open,’ ’e says, ‘en we might yet be
saved.’
“Then I fought ’ow I hated him. I opened
up on ’im, en tole ’im wot I fought of ’im.
I told ’im ’ow I hated ’im from wifin a ho rn
of seein’ ’im, en wot a cow en a fool ’e wuz.
All ’e said wuz :
“ ‘This is no time for recriminals, but to
look forward to deaf,’ he says. ‘En seein’
it is seemingly fated we are to die togevver,
let’s face it bravely en wif brovverly love.’
“My oaf, I could ’ave stoushed ’im, stand-
in’ there like a ’oly Joe. I could ’ave give
him a push en be rid of him, but somefing
’eld me back, en, ennyway, he might ha’
give me first push if I’d tried. It seemed
all up wif us.
“Suddenly ’e says: ‘Ah, this might prove
of assistance.’ En wot does ’e collar ’old of
but a small log of wood wot is floatin’ by?
Then ’e says, ‘lt will on’y bear the weight
of one,’ ’e says. ‘Wot shall we do?’ ’e says.
Then, after finkin’ awhile, I says, ‘I ’ave it.
I’ll lay on it, en I’ll ’old you be the ’and, en
we’ll trust ter Providence.’ ‘We can’t stay
’ere enny longer,’ ’e says, for the water wuz
up to our armpits. So ’e puts one leg over
it en grips wif one ’and, en then ’e gives me
his ovver ’and, en we floats off. After a
little while we found it ’ad two little
branches which kept it from rollin’ over en
over, but all the same it wuz no cop. It wuz
me in the water ’ad the worst of it, en I
found meself wishin’ I wuz on the log, en
’im in the water, en I wuz wonderin’ ’ow I
could get there.
“ ‘You must find it heavy holdin’ of me,’
I says.
“ ‘Yes,’ ’e says. ‘But do not fear. I’ll
not let yer go,’ ’e says. ‘Enny minute,’ he
says, ‘we might float to shore.’
“ ‘ ’Ow about us takin’ it in turns to hold
each uvver?’
“ ‘Good idea,’ ’e says, en ’e slipped off the
log, en I laid on it en held ’im.
“’E wuz right about it bein’ heavy a-
holdin’ of ’im. Sometimes it seemed as if
the current wuz a-tuggin’ of ’im away, en I
fought we’d bof go. But I ’eld ’im. At
last me arm started to ache, en I fought,
‘Oh, I’ll not be burvened.’ ”
“Wot did yer do?” he was- asked.
“1 let go.”
A silence followed. Nobody offered to
make a comment, and Stinker seemed to be
thinking hard. At last he said: —
“I often fink ’e wuz the biggest fool ever
I met. Sometimes I fink ’e couldn’t ’ave
bin right in his ’ead.”
ROBERT BROTHERS.
The Hat.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WOULD you kindly show me that
hat?” !
The words were addressed to
a tall, duchess-like person in clinging black.
She lifted it reverently from the case and
placed it at a becoming tilt on my
head.
I looked at myself in the mirror.
I felt 16. I am 30 !
“What is the price?” I queried trem-
blingly.
“Only 355., and it’s a French model,” said
the imitation duchess.
I had exactly ninepence ha’penny in the
world !
I looked again at myself. It was so
lovely to feel 16.
I sighed, and handed it back to the
duchess, and murmured something about it
being copied in less expensive materials —
knowing full well that such a creation could
not be copied. A Parisienne milliner
makes a hat once like that in a lifetime,
and then dies! And no one knows where
she is buried.
I walked sadly out of the shop.
Outside it was Spring. Already she had
given each little twig of the elms a dear
bunchy little mob cap of softest green petals
to wear —while I was to go on wearing my
old dowdy winter hat —and up there in the
case
I walked on with heavy heart, and pre-
sently found myself in the Gardens. There,
too, Spring had been giving every shrub,
every tree, every ,rp, some soft delicate
raiment in which to dance in the soft warm
breeze.
I sat down on the velvety cool grass.
If only I could feel 16 again on such a
glorious day. But I felt more 30 than ever.
Then I lost myself in thought, and when
a desperate, hatless woman thinks, she most
often arrives.
At last the idea came.
I hurried out of the Gardens, and jumped
on to the first tram that happened my way.
I knocked timidly at his door.
“Come in,” he answered.
“Are you very busy, Billy dear?” I
queried.
“Never too busy to see you.”
“It’s very charming of you to say so.”
“But what’s the matter? You look quite
glum. And on such a fine Spring day. too.”
“Oh, what’s the good of a Spring day if
you haven’t Spring in your heart?” I an-
swered.
“P’raps it’s indigestion,” he said, as he
offered me a cigarette.
“Billy, you’re an unsympathetic brute.
I’ve a good mind not to ask you to come
round to my room while I make you a cup
of French coffee.”
“Good!” he exclaimed. “Just what I’d
like.” And he reached for his hat.
“Come along, then,” I said, walking to-
wards" the door. Then, stopping and clutch-
ing the armchair, I turned and sank into its
depths, my eyes glistening with tears (not
too many to overflow, as I had taken great
care in the making up of my lashes that
morning). Drooping my head, ana with
hands clasped, I sought an attitude of utter
despair.
“Why, what’s the matter, old girl? Are
you ill? Let me get you someth’ ”
“No, no, Billy, dear —I’ve, I’ve just re-
membered,” and I choked hysterically. “I
CAN’T make you a cup of coffee because —
because,” and I paused helplessly, “the beast
of a gasman cut off my meter this morning !
What AM I to do?”
“Good Lord! Is that all? I thought
you had appendicitis or something.”
Then I looked at him with the soul of an
angel.
‘How much is it?” he asked.
“Thirty-five shillings,” I answered, with-
out looking at him.
“Why, I thought it must be 35 pounds,”
he said, smiling deliciously.
“It’s as much to me,” I said, as I smiled
back, blinking away an unmanageable tear.
Then like a wizard he extracted two
bright golden coins from a tiny case, and
pressed them into my hand.
“Go at once and settle that dreadful
matter with your gasman. Then meet me
at the Cafd Parisian at a quarter after six,
and we’ll have a jolly little dinner, just
because it’s Spring-time, and you need
cheering up, and I need most of all your
charming company.”
“Billy, dear, I can’t take the money. I
can NEVER pay you back.” And he
thought I meant it, for he urged me to the
door, patting me affectionately on the shoul-
der, and telling me not to keep him waiting.
Once outside I almost flew on to the tram.
Then upstairs, with feet like air, pausing
only when I reached the top, I walked
slowly over to where “The Hat” posed allur-
ingly on its pedestal.
“I want to buy that hat,” I said lan-
guidly.
“Yes, madame ; will you try it on?”
I looked once more at myself. Was there
ever such a temperamental lining, or such an
elusive bow. And the curve of the brim
could express anything one could wish-
while the “tout ensemble” one of charming
simplicity.
“I will wear it now,” I said. “How much
is it?”
I gave her the gas money.
Then, hurrying home, I sat before my
mirror and went through all the intricacies
of a toilet (some women’s toilet).
And placing the dear Hat —the very dear
Hat —on my demurely parted hair, I went
to meet Billy.
As I came up to him he said, “Why, what
has changed you? You look positively 14
years younger than when I saw you last,
and prettier than I’ve ever seen you before.
What on earth have you done to accomplish
it?”
“Paid my gas account, Billy dear, and it’s
lifted a weight off my "find!”
(My old hat was SO heavy.)
VIVA SOMMERS.


WESTINGHOUSE
CHAIN TRANSMISSIONS
(MORSE PATENTS)
FOR ALL KINDS OF HIGH-SPEED POWER TRANSMISSION.
130 HORSE-POWER
WESTINQHOUSE CHAIN
TRANSMISSION.
Ĥ
Ħ
The rocker joint prevents sliding friction at the joint, yields highest
efficiency, and prolongs the life of the chain. Drives of from %to
1000 horse=power in satisfactory operation. Full particulars from
The Westinghouse Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Queensland Agents—Holmes & Church, Brisbane, Q.
New Zealand Agents—Philips & Pike, Wellington, N.Z.
CONCORD WEST, N.S. WALES.
neers a
0
Stirling Water Tube Boilers,
Nichols’ Slow Speed Boiler
Feed Pumps,
Auld’s Reducing Valves,
Dewrance Steam Valves,
Apexior Boiler Preparation.
WE ARE SOLE AGENTS, AND WILL SEND
YOU FULL INFORMATION PROMPTLY.
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
■-
S 'M
If you require a
Simple, Economical,
Reliable and Moder-
ately-priced Car, it
will pay you to
investigate the
METZ 22-h.p.
Friction Drive,
4-cyl., Water-cooled
Roadster.
£lB5 Nett.
THE SIMPLE CAR
FOR THJE COUNTRY.
Write for Catalogues.
The Famous INDIAN Motor Cycles.
Twin-cyL, 7 h.p,, Free Engine Clutch,
Two-Speed Gear.
The Waverley
THE DOCTOR'S
IDEAL CAR.
British built, 4-cyl.,
J2/J4 h.p., Bosch
Magneto, Zenith
Car b u retter, 9ft.
Wheel Base,
£330.
So'c A |i^BROWN g HELLICAR ltd.,
375 Kent Street,
SYDNEY. [2
CUTS
on
HORSES
FLINTS MEDICATED OIL
Is without doubt the most surprisingly prompt cure for Saddle Galls, Cuts,
Fistula or Broken Knees on horses. It possesses the rare merit of healing
without leaving any blemish, the hair growing in the natural colour. This
distinguishes Flint's Oil from every other preparation. Price 35., from most
stores throughout Australia, and procurable through any wholesale house
such as Elliott Bros., Sydney and Brisbane, or from
C. Be FLINT, Manufacturing Chemist, ADELAIDE.
THE LONE HAND
A Monthly Guide for everything
Australian.
H
:•
Economy Tiering Machine.
A machine for stacking all goods to
any height limited by size of machine .
For Stacking Wool and Skins in Woolsheds^
For Stacking Stores for Storekeepers.
For Stacking any goods in a quick, cheap and
effective way.
Parsons Trading Co.,
write for fun particulars to 340 Kent St., Sydney. Equitable Buildings, Melbourne.
as
H&! T> «
m
%
■
mm
,
-
Take
A
KE
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
. . . AT . . .
THE BANKING HOUSE, 228 Pitt Street,
Opposite PALACE THEATRE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LENDS MONEY ON ALL SECURITIES, including Furniture,
FROM 10 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
FRED. McWILLIAM, Manager
32
S 3
c-^
u
S 3
PATENT BAND SAW.
BUILDERS, CABINET MAKERS & JOINERS
Do not forget that the leading
MANUFACTURERS OF
WOODWORKING MACHINERY
have now their own Offices and Showrooms in Sydney.
Get your Information and Advice from a responsible
firm whose Machines are well known all over the world.
Write for Catalogue to
KIRCHNER & CO.
32 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Hig'her Efficiency
for the same cost.
It costs you just as much to drive a slow, old-fashioned machine
tool as it would a high-speed one. You are wasting power. The
high-speed machine tools, by Henry Broadbent or John Stirk,
are speeded up to the highest limit. They produce good work
in half or quarter of the time you now take. What’s the
matter with investing in one of their lathes, shapers, drillers,
etc.? They would make money for you and pay for themselves
in eighteen months or so.
For turning, you will find “Ideal” Cutting Compound truly
ideal. It is a compound that keeps the tool cool, never binds,
and prevents rust. Ask us for quotations.
t We also stock cotton waste in nine grades, punching machines,
milling machines, hack saw machines, blowers, etc., etc.
T. M. GOOD ALL 8 Co. Ltd.
Universal Machinery Merchants,
303-305 KENT STREET. SYDNEY.


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Fire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MACK LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen S'reet.
“IZAL” DISINFECTANT
The only Disinfectant free from Carbolic and Cresylic Acids. The
most powerful germicide known. The only Disinfectant that is
miscible in Salt, Brackish, Hard or Soft Waters, and any Organic
Fluid. One part of “IZAL” to 400 parts of water makes a perfect
Disinfectant, and destroys all germs and insect life.
Wholesale depot:
T. K. Steanes, 37=43 Pitt St, Sydney.
DICK’S PATENT
BELTING
the ORICINAL ANh
cenuime bauta
TRADt.
Ĥ
MARK
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT yet produ ,
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a iruard against inS
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet
importers: J&ITIGS HftrdiC & CO.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
A THE
#LSEtf
HE
MACHINES
& CO LTD
Dalgety’s Machinery Department.
Miller's Point, SYDNEY-and all Branches .
AGENTS FOR— =======
“TANGYE”
Oil and Benzine Engines, Suction Gas Plants, Stearn
Engines, Vertical Boilers, Irrigation Plants and
PUMPS of all descriptions.
««CLAYTON & SHUTTLEWORTH ”
Portable, Steam and Traction Engines, etc.
“GANE M
MILKING MACHINES, with Patent Automatic
Milk Releaser.
&
"UNION” Harvesters, Cultivators, Drills, Ploughs, etc.
" TANGYE”
Portable Oil Engine.
••CLAYTON & SHUTTLEWORTH
Tractidn Engine.
IQ*®*
/?IV\
4s
Ħ
THE ORIGINAL
PICKERING" PATENT GOVERNOR
We are Sole Agents for this State for the above, and
call particular attention to the new BALI. SPEED HANGER
with which this Governor is equipped, which readily secures
ar wide range in adjustment of the Engine speed, and gives
equally close regulation at either extreme or intermediate
points.
This Patent BALE SPEED RANGER will enable you to
vary your Engine speed approximately 50% from the mini-
mum without any change in the Pulley.
We carry stocks of all sizes up to and including 6in.
In ordering specify if you want with, or without. Valve;
with, or without, stop motion.
H. P. GREGORY & GO.
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
74 Clarence Street, Sydney.
H
offfAßtliG
The “Lister” in your shearing shed means a
higher standard of shearing efficiency.
“Lister” duplicates are of superior quality
and ensure satisfaction.
All parts interchangeable with the “Wolse-
ley.” Write for catalogue.
Sole Agents
DANfiAR GEDYE a C®,
NOYES BROS.
(Sydney) Limited,
115 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
45 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
(Melbourne) Propy., Ltd.
499-501 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
Commercial Bank Chambers, PFDTH
St. George’s Terrace,
Messrs. STEELE & BAKER,
Bowman Buildings, King William Street, ADELAIDE.
SUCTION
GAS PLANTS.
Ĥ
SUNSHINE ENGINES
for driving Chafifcutters, Saw Benches, Pumps, Dynamos, Graders* Hoists* Mortar Mills, etc.
H. V. McKAY, Sunshine, Vic. Adelaide Brisbane— Sydney Melbourne^
WELL-BORING PLANTS
“THE KEYSTONE"
Traction and Non-Traction.
NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS. STOCKS KEPT.
»
SEND FOR PARTICULARS TO THE SOLE AGENTS-
Ħ
THE KEYSTONE
Friction or Gog Hoist.
Fastest and Most Economical
Driller Made.
H
N. GOTHRIDGE LTD,
Equitable Building, Sydney
525 Collins Street, Melbourne
