

X> EWA.R’ S
107 Kent Street, Sydney
Machinery Merchants
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always aval a . __
The Shopkeeper Needing Financial Aid
will exercise sound judgment by procuring the necessary loan from this Company—-whose reputation for
fair dealing stands as sponsor for straightforward and business-like treatment. small or laige ioau&
reasonable security. LOWEST INTEREST IN AUSTRALIA!
N.S.W. Mont De Piete D. 8 I. Co. Ltd.
Head Office: 74 Castlereagh St. 74, Sydney.
Opposite National Amphitheatre.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
Ns
Hams’s ,EH Whisky
OBA.EIT
■ (fe
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING
Gdarantkkd
J. C. Ludowici <Sc Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
*
##
Take it back.
I must have—
HUTTON’S
PincApplc Brand
i
9
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
32 RECIPES
for preparing a variety of the most
dainty Desserts with
h
13320120
jh
will be forwarded, Post Free to Any
Address, on application to
T. 8., Box 577, G.P.0., Sydney.
m
- -
m
...
to ensure Long Service.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO.,
SYDNEY —MELBOURNE —NEWCASTLE
gj
LAGER BEER
hj
MALTHOID IS SO EASY TO LAY
That is one reason why it is just as satisfactory for
the man with a barn to cover as for the man with a
mansion to roof. Malthoid—asbestos=coated or
plain—is absolutely dependable.
The PARAFFINE PAINT CO.,
(Manufacturers of
AMIWUD),
Challis House, SYDNEY
NS
> £ "
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T -
gh
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T -
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
jh
The Moffat=Virtue Sheep Shearing Machine has been
building up a national reputation for high quality for
many years. Its superiority and low cost of main-
tenance have won for it the greatest favor in the
Australian shearing world.
Catalogue “O” is what you want. Write for it.
jßoffflt-Virtue £*. d .
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
352 Kent St. (near King st.), Sydney.
SPA
Three reasons why HELIDON SPA triumphs as a Perfect Table Water:
Ist—Rapid absorption. 2nd-Rapid circulation. 3rd—Rapid elimination.
STARKEYS LTD., Agents,
Phillip St., Sydney, and Red fern
The Bulletin
Vol. 34.—N0. 1732.}
[Thursday, April 24, 1913.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


LET US INTRODUCE YOU TO
the amateur gentleman.
THE GREATEST ROMANCE OF THE YEAR.
By JEFFREY FARNOL. Author of “ The Broad Highway,” etc.
PRICE 3/6. Postage 3d.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PTY., LTD., 238 Pitt Street, Sydney.
FOR. THE VOICE! THROAT! LUNGS!
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic. Contains no Cocaine
or other poisonous drug. Suitable for old and young.
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
Bronchitis, Influenza and the
Prevention of Consumption.
Unlike Cough Medicines “ bimenthol Ju-
jubes” do not interfere with the Digestion;
on the contrary, they have a beneficial effect,
as their Antiseptic properties prevent ab-
normal fermentation of the food, and thus
they prove helpful for sufferers from Indiges-
tion and Dyspepsia when taken after meals.
The LAKCET'says: “Proved to be as effec-
tive bactericidally as is Creosote.”
gj
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes are sold at Chemists and Stores, tins 1/6.
Forwarded post free on receipt of stamps by the Manufacturers,
Hudson's Eumenthol
Box 1520 G.P.O.
[3
Chemical Co., Ltd.,
17 York Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
War = Hell
F. von Bernhardi, general of cavalry (re-
tired) in the German army, continues in
vol. 2 of On War of To-Day (Rees, per
Angus and Robertson, Sydney) his technical
study of the modern war of masses and new
weapons. He finds that defence has gained
proportionally over attack by the develop-
ment of modern armaments ; and instances the
failure of the British artillery in the Boer
scrap and of the Japanese artillery in Man-
churia against the defence. And this, in spite
of the immense moral superiority that always
is inherent in the attacker. But the inert-
ness of the immense masses of men required
for European war will neutralise the ad-
vantages of the defensive; when an army of
a million is pitted against a million adver-
saries, the victory will lie with the com-
mander who can most swiftly overcome the
difficulty of moving such great numbers. The
large armies of these times need elbow-room.
The apparatus is too great and too compli-
cated to be rapidly and recklessly shifted
about.
J*
The author has a very poor opinion of
British generalship, except that of Roberts,
in the Boer war, but his opinion of Japanese
command in Manchuria is almost as scath-
ing as that of the Russian command: —
Nor can the success be explained by the
way the Japanese Army was led. Head-
quarters Repeatedly brought about situations
carrying with them the germs of defeat, and
rarely did it rise to the height of striving
after superior results by greater boldness.
The essential cause that made the Japanese
success possible was no doubt the way the
Russians were commanded and the way their
troops were employed The Japanese
could have achieved very much. more rapid
successes in spite of their inferior numbers
if they had risked greater losses Through
the slow execution of the attack, the Rus-
sians nearly always gained the time for col-
lecting their reserves at the decisive point.
And if, for all that, they did not conquer,
it is merely due to the fact that the Russian
command was absolutely incapable of taking
advantage of the favorable situation. Owing
to the slowness of the Japanese concentra-
tion, the Russians had it for a long time in
their power to fall upon the isolated weak
arnly of Kuroki in greatly superior num-
bers, and inflict upon it a crushing defeat,
without any chance of that army being sup-
ported. In the Battle of Liaoyang it was
merely owing to the Russians not under-
standing how to make use of their superior-
ity in numbers, owing to the slowness of the
Japanese enveloping movement, _ that saved
the Japanese from sure destruction. Similar
conditions were often repeated in the course
of the campaign. . . .Kuropatkin showed him-
self absolutely incapable of taking an opera-
tive advantage of the many strategic blun-
ders committed by the Japanese, and admis-
sible in the face of such an enemy.
&
In a modern war —-the sort of war that
is inevitably due some day in Australia —
the man on the kerb who objects to mili-
tary service will have ample opportunity
for repentence. Bernhardi advises that in
the attack upon fortresses—-say, the forts
at Port Jackson Heads —as it would be per-
haps impossible to destroy such small and so
well protected objects, bombs should be
dropped into the city itself, “carrying des-
truction and terror into the most frequented
parts of the town, which had, hitherto, more
or less escaped artillery fire. The effect
would, at any rate, be tremendous, and the
question may well be asked whether it would
be at all possible to hold for any length of
time a fortress attacked in this fashion.”
By “the universal misery” so created, the
commandant would be compelled to surren-
der. These bombs, he says, could over-
whelm the inhabitants with poisonous gases.
A “wholesale destruction of human lives” is,
in the German author’s opinion, the easiest
way of subduing a fortress.
Bernhardi is assured that a European
conflagration is at hand. The political de-
velopment of the Germans “requires this
combat as a biological necessity.” And his
hook discusses the methods by which Ger-
many must meet France and Russia, with
an occasional glance at, the possibility of
British intervention. Germany would first
deal France a crushing blow; Bernhardi
hopes to beat the French before the slower
Russians could become dangerous. And such
a victory would not only paralyse Russian
conduct of war, but have a cooling effect on
England. But there is evidence all through
of the author’s uneasiness at the Russian
menace. What are Germany’s immense
armies to the masses of Russia? And
though superior mobilisation gave the Ger-
mans the greatest' advantages in 1870, every
other nation, save possibly England, has
learnt all that Germany can teach it of the
art of expeditious mobilisation. Bernhardi
believes that France will mobilise even more
quickly than Germany. And the author
admits that in the coming war Germany
will most likely allow the French to invade
Southern Germany, in order to group the
German forces in the best strategic posi-
tion.
In a chapter dealing with naval warfare
further information is given of the German
method. War upon British trade on the
high seas will be “suddenly initiated” :
If the enemy is once prepared for it, he
will turn his own auxiliary cruisers to ac-
count and warn his own trading vessels. The
first and most important success can only
Jbe attained by surprise. This war must
also be conducted as ruthlessly as possible,
so since only then.... the necessary terror
is spread among the hostile merchant fleet,
and thereby more injury done than by the
capture of actual prizes. A certain amount
of terrorism must be practised on the seas.
And Bernhardi hints that the article in
the London Declaration forbidding the cap-
turer to destroy his prizes except in case of
need, will not be acted upon. The German
commander will “often find himself in a
position to assume his case to be one of
need, and will then naturally destroy at
once the hostile ships captured.” And Ger-
man naval policy will be to allow’ England
to blockade the German fleet, and then
gradually wear down the British fleet by
offensive operations till the numbers are
approximately equal, and only then engage
in the decisive battle. He shows that the
losses of the blockading fleet must alw’ays be
greater than of the blockaded who vigorously
sally out to attack and retreat to the safety
of their harbors.
A valuable book, but necessarily cluttered
with technicalities.
Novels, Assorted
Here is an interesting book — Veiled
Women (Bell, per Dymock’s Library), by
Marmaduke Pickthall, author of that clever
novel, Said the Fisherman. He takes the
reader inside the harem, and leaves the critic
wondering how he managed to get there. We
learned something of harem life from Loti’s
The Disenchanted ; but Pickthall writes not
as an observer but almost as an occupant of
the women’s jealousy-secluded apartments of
a Pasha’s household. The scene is set in
Egypt before its occupation by the British.
A commonplace English governess in a Turk-
ish nobleman’s household marries his son,
and becomes a Moslem. Her own country-
men had never looked at her, and marriage,
even to a sleek, youthful Turk, tempted her.
Her married life is described with vivid de-
tail. The frankness of speech and freedom of
behavior among the women and children will
shock theWWorser;w r ser; but the book is an un-
biassed setting-forth of the merits and de-
merits of the system, and, it may be con-
fessed, leaves the critic with the sense that
our method of treating women is right, but
that for the Moslem women the harem
method is equally right. And the English
wife, though not without painful shocks to
her convictions, easily relapses into the Mos-
lem point of view.
“All her friends viewed love, apart from
any individual man, as a material boon.
Bred up to it and ripened for it cunningly,
they were ready to adore the man who gave
it, however unattractive from a European
standpoint. This view of love, when real-
ised, explained to her the hanpiness which
every girl of her acquaintance seemed to find
in marriage, even where the husband was a
greybeard thrice the girl’s age. Those who
possessed it were content and virtuous. In
those who had it not, or were deprived of it,
all amorous crime was reckoned pardonable.
One happy wife, who shared her husband
with other wives, remarks: “Women can
never truly be the friends of men; their soul
is different. If thrown with men for long,
they feel fatigue. They ask of men one
thing—the gift of love. Here we consort
with women, true companions, all day long;
and in the night the bridegroom comes, and
we are blest. Is not this better than the way
of Europe, which sets at nought apparent
truths—as that most men love more than one
of us, whereas most women need but love
itself, the hope of children?”
One out of many incidents will best ex-
press this point of view. When the baby of
one of the women dies, her three fellow-
wives point out that the four wives are one,
and that the bereaved mother has still two
children left, since their children are hers.
And when the expected child of one of the
wives is born, its mother promises to present
it to her bereaved sister.
Immense families are born in the harem,
though few survive. The pasha, whose son
the English girl had married, had 20 chil-
dren by one wife —all dead; of another wife
about 30 —of whom there were six alive;
another wife reared three out of 10, and as
for the share of the concubines—! “A
woman’s task is to produce. We leave the
rest to Allah.”
The same high death-rate ruins the Eng-
lish wife’s happiness. Her only son is mur-
dered by conscripts in the fighting against
the British. She grows old. and when she
learns that her husband is keeping three
other women, she has them brought to her
palace, “to rid his dealings of the surrep-
titiousness which smacks of vice.” She re-
ceived them sometimes in her rooms, and
took benignant notice of her children, but
remained aloof. And, more than once, she
made vain attempts to escape from the
harem. But she was not the kind of woman
to be happy outside a harem. Its indolence
touched in her a sympathetic chord.
Pickthall’s novel is to be commended for
its matter-of-fact statement, without apneals
either to the reader’s sympathy or his racial
feeling, of life within, the harem. Especially
may Veiled Women be recommended to
Suffragettes.
J*
All those who were attracted by the stage
door will read The Career of Beauty Dar-
ling, by Dolf Wyllarde (Paul, per Lockley
Library). The heroine is both a beauty and
a darling, the sort of girl that men can’t
leave alone, a weak, good-hearted, brainless
child, seduced wniie only a kid, and flung
forth to battle for her life on the London
musical comedy stage. Dolf Wyllarde writes
her story in grease-paint, and quite frankly
pencils the eyebrows of immorality. Beauty
has a hard struggle, but emerges, somewhat
battered, at her goal, a music-hall “star.”
Her rise was due chiefly to her picture-post-
card face, and her blind, drifting obedience
to the various influences, good and bad, that
came into her life. A good girl at heart,
her hard upbringing and her immoral sur-
roundings give her no chance. Ultimately
she has to barter her beauty for material
success; and the author has no blame for
her. Nor has the reader. She ends as the
mistress of a duke, a notorious gallery fav-
orite ; and the two friends who had tried to
mould her life to something better receive
the news of her sensational death with a
heart-felt “Thank God.” Death was the only
way out of her difficulties. The author’s
knowledge of the stage has led her to drag
out the story to unnecessary length, but the
novel convinces.
J*
The Modern Heloise (Ouseley, per George
liobertson, Sydney), by the Melbourne jour-
nalist, Alfred Buchanan, author of Bubble
Reputation, Where Day Begins, The Real
Australia, etc., is a good workaday novel.
The beginning promises more than it per-
forms. Buchanan mates a prizefighter with
an emotional “lost” lady, and the child is
educated by a eugenist with the hope of the
arrival of a superman. He is a brilliant
student, but as a youth in his twenties he
knows nothing of women. His patron un-
dertakes to remedy that, and brings him into
contact with a modern Heloise, a delightful
pagan, with emotions tempered by a keen
sense of the main chance. The prodigy makes
a sensible marriage with a rich, cold woman,
and becomes a loafer on her wealth. They
drift apart, and the husband meets the pagan
again. A trip to Paris tollows, but the girl
sees a better opportunity on the stage, and
leaves him for a theatrical manager. In
the end, the flawed superman, steadied by
sorrow, writes his great book. There is some
good characterisation and considerable
thought in the novel, but the effect contrives
to be vague and dull. A Modern Heloise
shows, however, that the clever novel of
commerce can be as well done here as
overseas.
Nt
Snaith, the chameleon of fiction, has taken
a new color. He has been Stanley Weyman
(Mistress Dorothy Marvin), himself ( Henry
Northcote ), Meredith ( Broke of Covenden),
his other self ( William Jordon, Junior),
Thackeray (Araminta), Anthony Hope (Mrs.
Fitz), W. J. Locke ( The Principal Girl),
and others. Now, in An Affair of State
(Methuen, per Dymock’s Library) he is
Ouida-Henry-James. In this political novel
of the future all his characters are demi-
gods, and Snaith writes in a “keyed-up”
strain that looks like a too-conscious attempt
to convince his reader that his characters
are real. The whole thing is forced, a
pleasant and absorbing fantasy that, given
our acceptance of Snaith’s preposterous pre-
mises, is admirably done. Snaith postulates
a time when the working classes of Britain
have been given into so long that, unable to
make use of the liberty they have gained,
they threaten to overturn society, and bring
down the throne and the aristocracy in the
universal ruin. But there is a Mr. Draper,
President of the Board of Conciliation, who
lias made his way up from a haberdashery
counter to become the greatest man in the
State. He throws out the coalition govern-
ment, of which he was a member, because
that weak-kneed fusion was occupied solely
in postponing the inevitable revolution by a
series of sops to the working classes. Draper,
Snaith tells us, is too big a man to be solely
the workers’ representative. He conceives
the task of saving the State, retaining the
monarchy, but reorganising society by the
strong hand of a Cromwell. If that fails,
he is still open for the job of President of
the British Republic. The throne is occu-
pied at this time by a charming man of the
world; and there is one scene between the
king and Draper that is a piece of delightful
irony. Draper, however, is presented to us
in superlatives: he is Cromwell, superman,
almost God. And there is a splendid duchess
who has evidently strayed from the serial in
The Backyard Beautiful. There are also
premiers, ex-premiers, dukes and beautiful
butlers. But the story is absorbing, the high
tone admirably held, the dialogue brilliant,
the situations unexpected. One is left vainly
wondering whom J. C. Snaith will be next.
J*
Mary Gaunt is making good fictional use
of the material she gathered when she was
Alone in West Africa. The latest novel of
this Australian author is f.Every Man's De-
sire (Laurie). It is dedicated to the town of
Warrnambool. Every man’s desire is appar-
ently the other man’s wife; for Mary Gaunt
shows us the hero and the heroine respec-
tively mated to the wr-ng person, and puts
this party of four in West Africa with
enough leisure for the heroine’s husband to
make love to the hero’s wife, and the hero
and the heroine to discover from their mutual
suffering that they are in love with each
other. The problem then is to dispose of
the surplus husband and the unnecessary
wife, and Mary Gaunt does it neatly ay
convincingly by means of an ingenious
The “atmosphere” of West Africa is admir
ably blocked in; and the problem of black
blood mated to white is forcibly pictured
The character drawing is consistent and
the novel interesting.
&
A fine example of the American novel is
The Lure of Crooning Water, bv Marin,,
Hill (Long). Ilecipe : Take one - beautiful
actress, give her a breakdown and send her
to a backblocks farm to recuperate. Add
one uncouth farmer, whom the actress, out
of mere devilment, means to snare. Place
both in a slowly simmering solitude, and
boil with moonlight. Flavor with crisp and
delightful stage slang. Then remove the
actress back to New York, and surround
her with various men who mean to marry
her. Next divorce the infatuated farmer
from his wife, and bring him to the gay
haunts of theatredom. Add a revolver,
thicken with remorse, strain through recon-
ciliation, and marry the actress to her
doctor. If the dish is cooked with art and
brilliant repartee, the result is altogether
delightful. The Lure of Crooning Water
will suit the popular feminine palate. The
humor of the dialogue recalls the best efforts
of O. Henry.
Eugenics for Australia
William Blocksidge, author of that re-
markable book of verse, The New Life, and
other books of verse, all privately printed,
reappears anonymously in prose with
National Notes, also privately printed. His
desire is evidently to become the Nietzsche
of Australia; but at present he has a long
way to go. Some Blocksidgisms: “Life is a
force that has made numerous experiments
in organising itself; it is about to make an-
other such experiment in Australia... .The
human will shall demand: Invent me a
means by which I can have love, beauty,
romance, emotion, passion, without their
wretched penalties The very emptiness of
tradition in Australia has an enormous sug-
gestiveness It is not conceivable that
nothing other than a eugenic religion can
save modern civilisations from the fate that
has overtaken all previous civilisations
Eugenics must be introduced into the
national conscience like a new religion
Foots, and men of their kind, might be diffi-
cult things to breed. The chance concensus
in an individual of such numberless and
varving characteristics of mind as will make
a poet, and which are very generally dis-
tributed throughout humanity, is, perhaps,
something beyond the means of deliberate
production Where brilliant results might
be expected, would it not be a national loss
to limit the husband’s progenitive capacity
to the breeding capacity of one woman, or
the wife’s to an experiment with one father
only ?... .To-morrow we set about breeding
man as a political animal... .If people sub-
mit to restrictions which do not benefit the
race (and they do this now), why not to
restrictions that would?... .Celibacy among
sound individuals we cannot tolerate.
Should our women at any time outnumber
the men (such as might happen after a
decimation of the latter in wars), polygamy
would be a necessary institution. This
might involve a readjustment of the fran-
chise as it affects women.... Old age pen-
sions are wrong ; some kind of State insur-
ance with benefits on eugenic lines only
would be nearer the mark. We step in long
after the reproductive age can possibly pro-
duce any racial change. Not sound parent-
age (the legitimate object of our solicitude),
but senility is endowed with these annual
millions. .. .Whether or not all our males
marry, might not be the most important
matter; but it is necessary that all our
sound females should. . .Not wives, mothers.
.... What we must strive for is a com-
munity of warlike and extremely capable
men, develoning grandly amidst the fading
contours and colors of existing nations ana
institutions.... Paupers, that class whose
limited skill and perseverance do not entitle
them to be other than what they are, must
be allowed to nerish. . . > A religious system
can never be repeated : such a thing is out-
side Nature. . . .A religion that cannot exist
without sickness, what is it doing in Aus-
tralia? It is time to slough off the rem-
nants of this parasitical religion and replace
it by one that is national... .There is none
of the old pride of ancestry in Australia-
This is excellent; for that same old pride
is no longer of value. But the new, the
true pride of ancestry, will brace the de-
scendant of sound stock, and provide the
base on which our new national religion is
to be established... .Eugenic breeding, a
feeling of organised fellowship among all
members of the nation, and severe external
■ struggles—not one of these can be omitted
from the requirements of that nation which
hopes to continually advance. Nations are
passing beyond the amateur stage, and we
in Australia must put ourselves, not m any
secondary position, but in the front rank ot
national progress.” Blocksidge is full or
eugenic and patriotic fervor; but the ex-
pression of his ideals is generally vague.


Jk
voe
pEJMOI/S
• Low -
Prices
Anthony Horderns’
Winter Fashion Book
is an authoritative guide
to the prevailing modes.
The illustrations faith-
fully depict selections
from the noteworthy
display in the Green
Room of Charming Re-
ception Dresses and
Evening Gowns, Rich
Fur Sets and Smart
Ready-to-wear Costumes,
Blouses and Skirts.
Fashions for Young
Australia are also shown,
as well as the New
Millinery, Seasonable
Footwear and Lingerie.
Write for a copy, post
free on request.
£xc/us/vo 7cj//or M&af& Su/As
r*
*
No. 6168. Stylish Evening Coat, Of Chiffon finish Face Cloth, deep spade collar with wide
"loose hem, new shape, very full sleeves, collar, revers and cuffs, finished Silk strappings, and
buttons to match. Colors: Sky, Biscuit, Old Rose, Tan, Pink and Cream 42/-
No 8590. Effective Evening Coat, of soft. Venetian Habit Cloth, has full loose back,
and wide, set-in sleeves, collar, revers and cuffs finished strappings of Satin, and medallions of
Black Silk Cord, in Grey, Sky, Biscuit, Cardinal, Tan, Reseda, Stone and Cream 32/6
No 6165 Evening: Wrap Coat, Of fine Face Cloth, loosely cut, with semi-Kimono sleeves,
"long revers of White Guipure Insertion, edged Paillette Silk to match. Colors: Sky, Biscuit,
Putty, Mauve, Rose Pink and Cream ..v* 2 ' -
-vr,, 1 nr a ceful Evening Cloak, smartly cut from soft Face Cloth, with new
taw’reve,. .»d »«,, of .oft P.ill.tte Silk, .nd Silk
piping. Colors: Sky, Grey, Pink, Cherry and Cream o*l/-
No. 81574. Coat and Skirt Costume, in fine Navy Coating Serge, trimmed back .and
front black Military braid, collar and revers relieved facings of either Tan, Saxe or pale Mauve
cloth, coat lined Silk Polonaise, finished patent leather belt; new shaped skirt 79/6
No. 380. —Coat and Skirt Costume, in the new Bedford Cord, high waist effect, new
Robespierre collar, coat lined Silk Polonaise; two-piece skirt with lapped seams and self
buttons; Navy, Cinnamon Brown, and Petrol Grey * 69/6
No. 5092/I.—Smart Knitted Wool Coat and Skirt Costume, in Fawn and White
or Grey and White, fine stripes, the front, cuffs, collar and pockets of coat finished knitted
strappings of Fawn or Grey to match stripe, and buttons to correspond; four-piece skirt has
wide lapped seams 63/-
No. 1575.—Styish Coat and Skirt Costume, in Black or Navy fine Coating Serge, coat
has pointed shape crossover front, large collar and revers faced black Satin, lined through Grey
Silk Polonaise; skirt is three-piece, high waisted, with double seam in centre front.... 03/-
—I-— »■ ii—
n hlfes in
%iffed Coats
O
w
2&
af
slyvrffONy
337
3,
Top Quality at
Bottom Price
is the Golden Rule
at the
New Palace
Emporium
the Home of
ANTHONY
HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW
PRICES
acknowledged to be
the LOWEST IN
THE LAND.
Send for Illustrated
Price Lists, Post Free.
Zvisnion* for
13/3 .
V
T i '
i/558.
23
No. 28.—Knitted Sports Coat, Sailor collar, belt at back, patch pockets, single fronts,
iy B q?- Na vplb 1 Knitted' Coat. 44in„ heavy stripe stitch, deep round collar, revers and
cuffl,^ed y S alternate white stripe and white silk buttons; Grey, Heather, Navy, Black,
q«-7 tlrrmrt Knitted Coat, 42in., close heavy stitch, single rever and cuffs relieved
N alfernlte Sf stripes" Navy, Grey, Brown, Sapphire, Petunia, Cream and Black 52/6
No MB —Knitted Coat,' toe ply, pretty f.ncy stitch, hnishetl Moh„r button. .ntooops,
Sed'pto button.;- toe fey,' Heather Grey
Cream and Black
No. 213. — Tailor-made Coat and Skirt Costume, of Black or Navy fine Coating Serge;
belt effect of folded Satin, Black Satin rever s and cuffs, and small sailor collar worked in Gold,
Emerald, and Blue Oriental Embroidery, lined through striped Satin; three-piece skirt 79/6
No. 1/538. — Stylish Coat and Skirt Costume, of Black and Grev narrow stripe Zibeline
Fleece Cloth, has collar of Black and fine White striped Ottoman Silk, Military Braid strappings
and bone buttons, coat lined through to match; well-cut four-piece skirt 7®'T
No. 9309. — C0at and Skirt Costume, Black Ottoman Silk collar and cuffs, relieved
narrow Emerald or Black Satin piping, lined Cream Twill Satin; new-cut skirt, in Black or
Navy fine Coating Serge 77/0
No. 8341. Coat and Skirt Costume, Of Diagonal Whipcord, in Steel Grey and Brown;
coat relieved inserted slashings of Black Satin on double panel at back, revers and shaped
sections over hips, lined through Silk Polonaise to match; two-piece, skirt, with wide lapped
seams 59 / 6
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
BricKneldi Hill*
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
The Latest in Light Sporting Rifles.
STEVENS
“Marksman” Rifle No. 12.
Especially Designed for Smokeless Powder Ammunition.
MR
Three Calibres—22, 25, or 32 rim fire.
Ask your storekeeper to quote. INSIST* ON STEVENS.
Write for Catalogue to
m r-% iii | n II II | | i Australian and M.Z. Representative for J. STEVENS
Ain I liUni ■ niLLj ARMS & TOOL CO., Box 83, 0.P.0., Adelaide, S.A. [5
BAYARD
Semi-Automatic
Mk
is Machine-made like a Military Rifle All Parts interchangeable.
The Patent Safety Device alone helps to place this weapon ahead
of all other -22 Cal. Long Rifles.
ĵ
4**' Ma *+
To be had of all Storekeepers,
Gunsmiths and Merohants.
The Lowest Price Automatic in the Market.
Write to W. A. Cox, G.P.O. Box 873, Sydney, for Booklet, post free.
Shoot the Cartridges that make Champions
Follow the lead of the holders of all important World’s Records
J. \V. HESSIAN,
World’s Champion Rifle Shot.
WfVe H
champion shots
of the world and
many others
who make re-
cord-breaking
scores year
after year, use
W
m
J. R. GRAHAM,
World’s Champion Trap Shooter.
RemingtonrUMC Cartridges?
Because this old reliable ammunition answers the
trigger unfailingly under all conditions:
Because it is accurate to a hair’s breadth:
Because every cartridge is like its brother in uni-
ANNIE OAKLEY,
Champion Lady Fancy Shot.
formity — no
missfires, no
erratic shots.
There is a Remington-
UMC Cartridge made
and guaranteed for
your rifle, revolver, pis-
til or shotgun—of what-
ever make or calibre.
Remington-UMC the
universal ammunition.
REMINGTON ARMS
-UNION METALLIC
CARTRIDGE CO.
(M. Hartley Co.,
Export Agents)
299 Broadway, N. Y.
V £r.
A. P. LANE,
World’s Champion Pistol Shot.
a
V
O'
umi
mnm
w
I
VOUR customers get the goods for which
* they pay. You should be as sure of
getting the money for the goods you sell.
Whether you do or not depends entirely on the system you
use in conducting your business. The old way was to
depend on memory and habit. With our new system, you
depend on machinery which enforces accuracy and stops
mistakes in your store. The National Cash Register will
systematize your business, so that you will be as sure of
getting all your profits as your customers are of getting
their goods. It will pay you to investigate.
CALL OR WRITE
The National Cash Register Co.
of Australasia Ltd.
335 PITT ST., SYDNEY
343 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE
281 MURRAY ST., PERTH
50 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
117 a RUNDLE ST., ADELAIDE
MACQUARIE ST., HOBART
ONTHEHOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price. 21s.
ScV* 4 . . • - r. .-
THE
(TOP-NOTCH
OF SCOTCH
rf
“JffySwnj&N
If you aim to be “dead on the jack” when
quaffing the flowing “bowl,” try without
“bias” “King George IV” and “touch”
the finest whisky the world produces.
“King George IV” is “top notch” in
all the essentials of a high grade
whisky great age fine bouq uet
■—rounded mellowness —and
perfect purity.
"a top-notch shot


Half Sick
Half Well
* Many persons have their good day
and their bad day. Others are about
half sick all the time. They have
headache, backache, and are restless
and nervous. Food does not taste
good, and the digestion is poor; the
skin is dry and disfigured with pim-
ples; sleep brings no rest and work is
a burden.
What causes this? Impure blood. 8
I A And the remedy? J
Ayer's
Sarsaparilla
| SOLD FOR |6O YEARS
It removes impurities from the
blood and makes it rich and red. Then
nature takes right hold and completes
the cure. Ask your doctor all about
this.
No medicine can do its best work when
the bowels are constipated. Keep your liver
active with Ayer’s Pills. One pill, at bed-
time, is sufficient to produce a natural move-
ment the next morning. Ayer’s Pills are
sugar-coated. All vegetable.
Prepared by DR J. C AYER & CO..
I Lowell, Mass.. U. S A I
h
DAYS’ FREE TRIAL.
Packed Free. All charges Prepaid to youf
Port direct from our Factory. Highest*
grade British-made MEAD
Coventry Flyers
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS.
Defiance Puncture-Resisting or Dunlop
I Tyres, Coasters, Variable Speed Gears,
Flyer or Brook’s Saddles, etc.
models
<£> 3m 10 to JS 9
Tyres and accessories half usual prices.
AGENTS
wanted in each district. Write
at once, using sufficient postage.
for Free Art Catalogue and our
Special Offer on sample machine.
MEAD
CYCLE COMPANY,
Dent. 280. LIVERPOOL
AGENT for MEAD CYCLES-
VAL. D. COLE, Book Arcade, Melbourne.
LARGE STOCKS ON HAND. ALL MODELS
The Queen
of
$0
lli*
a^ s
TABLE WATERS'.
'HE Australian Magazine—THE TONE
HAND. The National Monthly. Price. 6d.
ELEY
CARTRIDGES
essential
to good sport.
Good cartridges may
not always suffice to
ensure good sport, but
good sport is out of the
question without them.
ELEY Cartridges do all that the best
cartridges can do in this direction, with a
trustworthiness which has won for them
a measure of success greater probably
than any other cartridges in the world.
Two 'Eley Loaded' Cartridges:
Elcy ‘Acme’
, A bright orangeg inch
1 deep-shell Cartridge
l loaded with Eley
I (42-gr.) Smokeless.
Eley ‘Eloid’
A light maroon Cartridge.
Loaded withEley<33 gr.)
Smokeless. Light recoil;
absolutely waterproof.
The above, and other Eley
Specialities, may be ob-
tained from all Gunmakers
and A mmunition Dealers.
Eley Bros,Ld., London
Enjr.
t
V
jh
Good for
The Children
Every mother knows that there is
no better Cough Medicine for the
little ones than “Bonnington’s Irish
Moss.” Its soothing and healing
properties are at once noticeable. It
is pleasant to take and affords relief
from the first dose.
Guaranteed entirely free from harmful narcotics
BONNINGTON’S IRISH MOSS
gained its place in public favor by sterling worth, and keeps it by the same
unchanged efficiency. For the relief and cure of Coughs and Colds, Bronchitis,
Whooping Cough, Croup, this remedy is unsurpassed.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTES.
Always ask for " BON N I NGTON’S"
1/0 & 2/6
D
RUNKENNESS Cured.
Any lady can cure the most violent drunkard—secretly—at home. GOIyDEN
SPECIFIC has no odor or taste, and can be taken by the most delicate person
of either sex. It total’y eradicates all craving for stimulants, creating a last-
ing antipathy to alcohol in a few weeks. Many cases are cured in a few days
with this treatment. . . Send 2d. stamp for FREE SAMPLE and full particulars.
THE GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO., DEPT. 4-> MARKET STREET, SYDNEY. N.S.W.
V)
Every Woman Can Have
a PERFECT Figure!
Thin Women .
If you are flat-chested,
thin, run down and
scraggly—e ven if you
never had a nicely-rounded
bosom, Dr. Falliere’s Flesh-
food will build you up
and develop your figure. Does your mirror mock
you ? Flesh-food will remove the faults in your
figure by rounding out and developing the defi-
cient places. Put up in Tablet form, it is easy
to use and pleasant to take, and, if desired,
may be taken secretly. Taken under our direc-
tions, it will work wonders for your appearance.
RESULTS GUARANTEED.
In many cases bust measurements have been in-
creased by over ten inches, and the weight over
five pounds weekly. Other cases have shown an
increase in weight of even a pound a day. The
average bust increase desired is about six inches,
and is readily accomplished.
FLESH-FOOD offers relief and development to
the thousands of chronically thin women who
have despaired of ever possessing a presentable
figure. It is a nerve and tissue food treatment
that adds weight and permanent devolopment to
attenuated women. Get full particulars.
Fat
People.
j
Excess fat injures your health, impedes your
movements, and makes you the butt of your
unfeeling normal-weight friends. Eedple who
have been fat, and are now reduced to normal,
think other fat people ridiculous.
Not alone does excess fat injure your health
and endanger your existence, it absolutely de-
stroys your figure and makes you a ludicrous
sight. Why do you stay fat? “FATCURE”
positively removes excess fat, and will restore
your spoiled figure to decent and pleasing pro-
portions, and is always a sure and lasting cure
for obesity and corpulency. A few doses im-
proves your breathing wonderfully, and the course
of treatment will cure you.
RESULTS GUARANTEED.
It is the only successful, and, at the same time,
harmless, fat-reducer that has ever _ been discov-
ered. Its efficacy has been undeniably demon-
strated in thousands of successfully-treated cases.
It is totally and absolutely non-poisonous, and can
in no wise work any injury to the general health ;
though it often reduces excess weight by as much
as a pound a day.
LET US SEND YOU A FREE SAMPLE OF EITHER “ FATCURE" or “ FLESH-FOOD
Send 2d. stamp, and say which remedy you want, and we will send free sample, also free book,
“OBESITY” to fat folk and “BUST” to thin ones. Be sure to say which sample you want. No matter
where you live we can treat you successfully by post. Confidential. Write or call to-day. [ AlB l 2
The Watworth Falliere Ass’iv, nos Ash street, Sydney.
NEW SEAM SANITARY GAN
FOR FOOD
PRODUCTS.
The Entire Top Open.
313 '
Pflflt
0
'id
Sealed without Heat, Solder or Objectionable Fluxes.
OUR NEW AUTOMATIC DOUBLE SEAMER will
readily handle over 2000 ends hourly, and may be operated
by a boy. Our machines are made for all kinds and sizes
of cans. Will stand both retort and bath processing.
Cheap, more attractive, wholesome and better. Send for
our Catalogue.
If The machine meeting with the greatest success in Aus-
tralia, South Africa and America.
If AMS INCLINABLE POWER PRESSES, for stamping
all kinds of metal work. They are not surpassed by any-
thing in the market.
We Furnish Complete Outfits for Making These Cans.
Max Ams Machine Co.
Mt. Vernon, New York, U.S.A.
EUROPEAN ACENCY: G. GUELPA di L., Corso Dante, 41, Torino, Italy.
STOP
SMOKING!
MOST MEN would cure themselves of the
Tobacco habit if they knew they could
do so easily and without discomfort.
It takes but ten minutes for tobacco to
change the beats of the heart. To keep it up
is to tempt death by Heart Disease, Nervous
Collapse, Tobacco Cancer, and Stomach,
Liver or Kidney Disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless, vege-
table remedy that will make the user of
tobacco in any form absolutely abandon the
habit for good." It not only destroys the crav-
ing, the desire, the appetite for tobacco, but
restores to health the entire nervous system,
and aids nature in entirely eliminating from
the system the Nicotine Poison.
You Can Try It FREE.
Send 2d. Stamp, and we will post you a
FREE SAMPLE, also our FREE BOOKLET
—“The Tobacco Habit and Its Consequences.”
Mr. ' Frank Ford (Blackall P. 0., Q’land)
writes: “I was a heavy smoker for 65 years,
but after taking your treatment for V, days 1
gave the pipe up for good, and never think of
smoking now.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G, 107 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
[2-_
PAGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Hava you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE 10 WEAR, but one
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Nevermind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts p. GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what wo think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Cnn vou ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men. women children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic.
The'St*ndard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
in Tue since 1596.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist foritshistoi-y—the book is free—or write
8. GREEN. 210. Lambeth Koad, London, Eng.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dirge.
The past has tricked us, and the desolate
years •
To come are laden with unceasing sorrow.
Why should we live who look for no fair
morrow?
Why should we pity, who have spent our
tears ?
Our gardens that we tilled are swept of
flowers,
A black despair blots all the skies above
us.
Why should we love, who have no heart to
love us,
But hopeless mock the unrequiting hours?
Earth holds no magic that can soothe our
pain,
To us no grace the heedless gods have
given.
Why should we bless, who hold our souls
unshriven?
When Hate persuades us, why should we
refrain V
Our Hood stains all the paths our feet have
trod.
Why should we meekly praise Thy name, O
God!
MAORILAND.
FRANK MORTON.
The Departure of Jane.
bath-robe of the summer night
Was wrapped about the quiet shore ;
The sea had drained in foamy white
Its wetness from the sandy floor;
And only Jane and young delight
Sat on the skirts the darkness wore.
Jane and delight were sitting there,
I lying supine at their feet,
Watching the starlight kiss her hair,
And wanton with the dimple sweet
Her busy chin was glad to wear
Beneath the things she deigned to eat.
With chocolates and other bliss
Her mouth was steadily engaged ;
In happy moments such as this,
Her teeth so sweet a warfare waged,
Joy needs must wait to snatch a kiss
Until her hunger was assuaged.
But all my heart was full of rest;
No fretful haste disturbed my soul;
My pulse was steady in my breast,
The while my arm around her stole;
As dumb as penguins in their nest
We watched the distant surf outroll.
Then an exciting thing occurred ;
We saw an object in the sky,
And heard a gentle voice that purred
Like cats that lick their kittens dry,
Till something like a large, black bird
Hit half the landscape in the eye.
A soaring monoplane swooped low;
Five devils rode it through the air—
Five cheerful devils all aglow
And horned and tailed with Tophet-
wear;
And one who seemed to boss the show
Caught my beloved by the hair.
I ween it was a fearful sight
To see that monoplane arise,
To feel that Jane and young delight
Were gone with devils to the skies —■
With soaring devils in the night
That paused not to apologise.
I felt indignant fo/ a while,
But feelings of the kind die soon;
The little stars suppressed a smile,
I saw a grin upon the moon,
And marked where love in double file
Strolled down the ravished sands to
spoon.
And still I often think of Jane,
And wonder what she finds to eat,
And whether devils ease their pain
By lying scorching at her feet....
I cannot curse that aeroplane,
Because my Mabel is so sweet.
N.s.w.
PAT O’MAORI.
Feelin’ Small!
Feelin’ small!
Small enough almost ter disappear
Clean out o’ sight an’ leave no one here;
An’ I wish I could , fer me use ain’t much ;
Th’ good in me ’obbles be aid of a crutch,
But the bad in me’s well ter th’ fore, yer see,
An’ I can’t tell wot is th’ use o’ me.
Oh, I’m feelin’ small!
Jus’ ’cos me temper ’ad got me down,
Couldn’ do nothin’ but snap an’ frown
At the only feller I love on earth
(Wot’s th’ good o’ me—-wot am I worth?)
W’en ’is work’s kep’ ’im goin’ the ’ole long
night,
An’ thinkin’ it over, well, I’m orl right—
Nothin’ but rot, an’ wot people sed.
Oh, I’d ought ter have sumthin’ slung at me
hed.
Fer plaguin’ ’im so w’en ’e’s orl played out.
Dunno wot me an’ me nark’s about,
An’ it ain’t so often I see ’im, too ;
Wot’s the best thing that I’d ought to do
Ter show ’im that sure as true is true
I’m feelin’ small?
If ’e wos ’ere I’d up an’ get
Both me arms roun’ ’is neck, you bet!
With me face tueked into ’is shoulder there,
An’ ’is ’and a-sfrokin’ me muddled hair,
I’d arsk ’im ter rub out this afternoon,
An’, bless ’im, th’, brick! ’e’d be sayin’ soon
That it wosn’t my fault —though it wos, o’
course —
I wos ridin’ th’ ring on me ’ighest ’orse,
An’ I’m ’shamed of it now, an’ I wish ’e
knew
Th’ things I’m longin’ ter say an’ do.
Wonder wot makes me up an’ say
Th’ things I do w’en I feels that way!
An’ it ’urts me as much as it’s ’urtin’ ’im.
Forgive us again, ’cos I loves yer, Tim—
An’ I’m feelin’ small!
YICTOEXA.
E.M.H.


AN IDEAL CHAIR
For Cosiness and Supreme Comfort.
hg
This very handsome Easy Chair is one
of the best in our extensive stock of high-
class Easy Chairs.
The Frame is of solid oak, and made
similar to illustration. The cushioned
back is adjustable, and can be fixed to
any angle. The upholstering is skilfully
finished, and is of rexine or tapestry. The
chair is fitted with a spring seat, and
moves on castors.
OUR PRICES: £2/12/6.
Also
£3/5/-, £3|ls/-up to £5,5/-
at which price we can supply it with
movable seat.
Estimates Given for Furnishing
Throughout at Shortest Notice.
MARCUS CLARK & CO. Ltd.
THE EXPERT FURNISHERS,
Centra! Square, Opposite Railway, SYDNEY.
Ifflljll
111
ii:il
i Hi
li'i
ki
ii
Ii H
fill
sSaS
VM
r
■
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 11s. per day, or apartments
may he secured separately by the day from 3s. 6d. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to Thk Manager.
THE ACCORDEON for Country Residents.
gh
We don’t believe any Accordeon conies
so near perfection as the Celebrated
STAR Trombone Accordeon.
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners ; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price £l,
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price £1 7s. 6d.;
postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF
BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical
Instruments, Watches, Jewellery, etc.,
210 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
Reduce the Cost of Trustee Administration by appointing .
THE PERMANENT
OP NEW SOUTH WALES,
LIMITED,
TRUSTEE COMPANY
17 O’Connell St.,
SYDNEY.
Incorporated 1888 bj» Special Act of Parliament to act as
Trustees, Executors, Attorneys, Agents, Etc.
ESTATES, PROPERTIES, FUNDS, Etc., MANAGED EFFICIENTLY AND ECONOMICALLY.
Full Particulars on Application. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
Dinnefords]
a Magnesia
j gjh
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see that
“Dinneford &Co.”
is on every bottlo
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
Z 2
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
THe Famous BOOMERANG Mouth Orga
Sweet, Strong, Loud, Perfect and Tuneful,
Alberts
system
ROFESSIONAL
GOME RANG
“ BOOMERANG GRAND,” large size 6/6, small 3/6
“ PROFESSIONAL,” large size 4/-, small size 2/-
“ BOOMERANG,” large size 2/6, small size 1/6.
“POCKET BOOMERANG,” 1/., post free.
“ARCH-BELL BOOMERANG,” with 40 reeds, 2 bells
price S/6 ; 80 rds., 2 bells, 10/- ; 160 rds., 4 bells, 17/6.’.
TRADE SUPPLIED.
CAUTION—Mouth Organ Artists
and Learners are respectfully cau-
tioned against unscrupulous Shop-
keepers, who try to “ talk in ” the
customer by offering him inferior
goods, which are only a weak imita-
tion of the “BOOMERANG,” the
Monarch of Mouth Organs. If your
man has not a “ BOOMERANG ”
Mouth Organ—the one you came for
—walk straight out; don’t accept
the spurious substitute with the
shopkeeper’s assertion “just as
good,” and get the “ BOOMER-
ANG ” from another store.
S 3)
ALBERT &, SON, 137-9 King Street, Sydney.
/
THE PERDRIAU WHITE YACHTING SANDSHOE
Specially recommended where light, springy footwear is desired.
Highly suitable for Deck Wear.
PRICES: MEN’S, 6/3 pair; WOMEN’S, 5/6; BOYS’, 5/9
POSTAGE 9d. PAIR EXTRA.
*/ktdticuc
RUBBER Co UP
270 CEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
And at
MELBOURNE.
S'l/S
\
A
fc^Hl-WOLEUti-^
'S^Sturf^uSSls
BrigHt Floors
If Bright Floors appeal to you Shi-
Nolcum is the Polish you should use,
r it is so easy that in half the usual
time your Linoleums have that beautiful
high-class finish which makes the home
look so attractive.
Order a Tin to-day, one trial will prove what
we claim for it.
ON TNE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
Beauty’s Favourite.
The article wHicH excels all others
in improving the beauty of the skin
is naturally and deservedly beauty's
favourite. This Has been the
acknowledged and Honoured
position Held by Pears* Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and Has
maintained that position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by tHe
possession of tHose special emollient
properties which soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to tHe
skin. No other soap possesses
these qualities in sucH a pre-
eminent deg'ree as
Matchless for the Complexion.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vot. 34.—N0. 1732.
THURSDAY, APRIL *24. 1913.
Pmou 6u.
THE MASSIVE CIRCLE.
JOKE COOK: “Let’s all crowd round the dear little thing; and hide him till alter the elections."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William . Mac-
lEod, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets,
Mosman, for The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214
George Street, Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum . . . • • • £1 £ 2
Half-yearly . . . • • • 013 6
'Quarterly.. .. .. •• 0 7 0
Jiy sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
■ Six Shillings Sterling you can have The Bulletin
,posted regularly to you every week jor a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by talcing some
care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “ Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the form
of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short
Tales or Sketches (those dealing xvitli Australian sub-
jects, and not exceeding two columns in length, or,
say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded with-
out stamps for return it will be understood that the
copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Personal
applications for return of MS. cannot receive atten-
tion. The Bulletin desires, further, those sending
MS. to distinctly understand that it is not respon-
sible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash, of
sufficient merit and interest and adapted for direct
reproduction, or any interesting photograph illus-
trative of a current event, will be paid for same on
acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea, but
unfitted for direct reproduction- — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —-The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., l/l/l Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah. U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and, D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; IF. E. Lenehan, 585
29th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., Pedder Street, Hong
Kong.
Ceylon. —lF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo. '
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victorid, West Australia, Queensland, Tas-
mania and New Zealand; and on account of Messrs.
Atkinson and Co., and lligby, Ltd., Adelaide—at
i/6 per doz. nett.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size, 6§in.
x Uin.. and gelatine transparencies, will be forwarded
oh application. Larger metal plates can be supplied if
desired.
Postage Rates.
Single Copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper):—throughout the Commonwealth, New Zea-
land,, Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Ilowe Islands. 10oz.. id.; United Kingdom. All Sea
Route, 16oz. Id. Only one newspaper should be en-
closed in each packet — otherwise, Boz. Id., and Bioz.
to 10oz., 21d.; lOoz. to 12oz. Sd.; elsewhere, )oz. Id.,
and id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, APRIL 24, 1913.
THE THING THAT WAS LEFT OUT.
When Prime Minister Fisher delivered liis
policy speech he covered almost every subject
under the Australian sun except the most
important one —the Northern Territory rail-
way. All the plans and schemes and ambi-
tions and inspirations and devices and
dreams and dodges and promises and antici-
pations of all the political parties in this
country depend on the white race being able
to keep hold of Australia. If it can’t do that
everything is null and void. Old age pensions
and trades unionism and baby bonuses and
short hours and high wages and nationalisa-
tion of industries and the rest of the politi-
cal show are of no account when the bottom
has dropped out. The one woman who
doesn’t care how her hat is trimmed is the
woman who is dead, and if White Australia
is dead then it will care no more for the
trimmings of its political hat than any other
deceased person. The weak noint of Aus-
tralian defence is that the middle north, the
north-west and the centre, comprising fully
half the continent, are almost unpopulated
and about as scarce of means of communica-
tion with the centres of population as they
were when Pelsart and Dirk Hartog in-
fested these coasts. These neglected areas
are held on a shaky title —-by reason of
insufficient occupation—in other words, they
are held on exactly the same title which the
Dutch once possessed, and which was rejected
by Britain as insufficient. The mere hoisting
of a calico banner doesn’t protect a land
for ever. And the North is much more
accessible, as matters stand, to possible
enemies in Asia than to possible defenders in
south-eastern Australia. Unless the defence
of the North is looked after, any day may
see the beginning of a trouble which won’t
end until the proprietors of the Sydney
Morning Herald are hanged on their own
office doorstep, and the Trades Hall is
burned, and the Labor programme is given
to the dogs or the ash-barrel, and the proud
white man is allotted a job as the carrier
of a brown man’s luggage at a humble brown
remuneration.
* * * *
Still, as already mentioned, the question
of building a railway to North Australia, and
thus providing for its settlement and its de-
fence, was the only matter of importance
that was left out of Andrew Fisher’s state-
ment of policy. Possibly the struggle to get
votes obscures everything else, and maybe
the clamor of the various people who want
the Northern Territory line to go round by
their own back doors obliterates the Austra-
lian aspect of the case. A big vote in
Queensland and N.S.W. can be secured by
abandoning the transcontinental idea and
making a curly, crooked, coastal line along
the eastern shore to Brisbane and Sydney.
A smaller vote in S.A. and Westralia can be
secured by building the straight, cheap line
to the nearest big city—the line which was
included in the agreement under which the
Northern Territory was handed over to the
Commonwealth. Out of the desire to avoid
antagonising either vote arises the tendency
to hang the question up as long as possible;
to say nothing, to do nothing, to go nowhere.
For if the matter on which this country’s
very life depends is rashly attended to the*
member for Smith’s Curse may lose his seat,
and thus reduce the Government majority.
* * * *
The crying need of Australia is to settle
the Empty Spaces. Every politician is ready
to admit that. But, unfortunately, the Full
Spaces have most of the votes, and the voters
of the Full Spaces have a habit of demand-
ing that everything which can possibly pro-
mote setttlement shall be deposited in or
near their own crowded areas. For that
reason, a N.S.W. Government which was, in
theory, boiling mad with enthusiasm for the
deserted spots and the Empty Spaces, dragged
its North Coast railway round in a costly
semi-circle, so that it might avoid opening
up about the best, and almost the most lone-
some harbor in the State. And that is why
many other wonderful things happen. The
clamor for the diversion of the Northern
Territory railway down the east coast repre-
sents the demand of the Congested Areas for
more Congestion. It is the negation of the
old pioneering spirit, and the representation
of its antithesis, the slum soul. It stands
for the craving of the big landlords of Bris-
bane, Sydney and Melbourne for higher
rents; of the bagmen of these cities for more
trade; of their newspapers for more adver-
tisements ; and of the whole bloated com-
mercial community for more bloat. It is so
sordid, so shameless, so utterly indefensible,
so glaringly unpatriotic, that even the advo-
cates of the railway deviation hardly dare to
state their case, and fall back on off-hand
remarks like this —from a recent S. M.
Herald leading article :
It is plain that this transcontinental should be
built so as most easily to link up with existing east
to west lines, both in New South Wales and in
Queensland. The arguments for that point of view
are innumerable, and there is no need to set them
all forth again.
When there is no argument that is clean
enough to bear inspection that is the shortest
road out of the difficulty.
The case for the straight line north and
south isn’t, like that for the crooked devia-
tion, an affair that requires to be smothered
under a general statement that it is full of
self-evident merit. It can bear detailed
inspection. These, for instance, are a few
of the points on which it is based :
(1) It will connect the North with the nearest big
city. Adelaide is closer to Port Darwin than Bris-
bane, Sydney or Melbourne.
(2) It will connect the North with the cities
(Adelaide in the first place, and Melbourne, Ballarat
and Bendigo afterwards) which will be of use to the
North for defence purposes at a crisis. Though Ade-
laide is the nearest big city to the North by land, it
is the most remote by sea. A foreign enemy must
come by sea. When any enemy is in a position to
threaten the North, that will mean that he has got
possession of the Northern waters, and is liable to
batter at the gates of Townsville to-morrow and of
Brisbane the day after. These places will be too
busy looking after their own safety to help the North
in its defence. On the other hand, Adelaide and the
adjacent parts could be stripped of defenders to help
hold up the Australian flag in the Territory. They
would be so far from any possible attack by the
enemy’s fleet that they could afford to take risks.
(3) The straight line would climb steadily into
the cool inlands of Australia. It would open up the
only well-watered, strongly defensible and easilv-
irrigable country in Central Australia. It would give
access to a great natural fortress and a great sana-
torium. It would develop a great pastoral and
mineral region. On the other hand, the proposed
deviation would go through a low-lying country of
very inferior possibilities.
(4) The straight line would give Central Australia
a shorter way of communication with Perth, Ade-
laide, Melbourne, Hobart and the States dependent
upon them, and a very much shorter line to Africa,
Continental Europe and England, than the deviation.
It would give almost as short a connection between
Sydney and Darwin as the deviation would. Cer-
tainly, the straight line might not connect Towns-
ville and Rockhampton quite so directlv with Darwin
as the rival line. But exactly what good would
accrue to Australia by running the swiftest possible
express train across a corner of the continent from
Darwin to these two places, it is hard to say.
Port Darwin is itself one of the finest harbors south
of the line, and it no more requires communication
with shallow ports like Townsville, Rockhampton
and Maryborough, or even Brisbane, than a sovereign
requires a railwav to connect it by the least pos-
sible mileage with a bad halfpenny. Also, Darwin
wants to connect on the shortest possible line with
abundant population, and North Queensland has none
to snare.
(5) The only way to open up Central Australia
is to build a railway across it. It will never be
opened up by leaving it the same old emptiness and
building a new coastal line to avoid it.
(6) The only wav to onen up that gigantic Federal
property, the Northern Territory, is bv building a
railway through it. This is auite a different thine-
from building a railway that will cross an odd
corner of it and then take the shortest possible cut
out of it. The opponents of the transcontinental
line profess to believe that the bulk of Australia
isn’t worth opening up. But it is the only Aus-
tralia we have, and we must make the best of it.
Those persons who talk of “desert railways’’ would
do well to remember that Australia was once sup-
posed to be all desert. The Dutch owned it and let
it slide on the ground that it was barren. Victoria
was settled in a small way and then abandoned for
a generation on the suspicion that it was a howling
and useless perish. And Sydney was only settled
because the early gaolers and floggers believed it
to be a dreadful place, quite bad enough for con-
victs. Sydney was, in fact, an alternative to hang-
ing With these exploded delusions on record, it is
too soon to despair of the great Northern Territory
tableland, which really seems about the most pro-
mising part of the continent.
(7) The straight line will be Federal property
from end to end, with a Federal port at each end.
This is a distinct advantage as compared with the
idea of a line which will be partly Federal, partly
Queensland property, partly N.S.W.-owned, and the
tail-end Victorian. Too much diverse management
can spoil even a transcontinental railway, especially
in war time. , , ...
(8) So much of the straight line is already built
that it can be finished in shorter time than any
other. And in defence matters time is money. Also
loss of time is sometimes perdition.
(9) Lastly, the Commonwealth is pledged to the
straight line, and it cant depart from that pledge
without being a degraded and ignominious
That is a part of the oft-recited story of
the great north-and-south railway. It is
recited again because it is the most urgent
matter in Australian politics, and neither
party seems to have the courage to deal with,
it. Uerhaps what Australia really wants is
a new party.
[James Edmond, The Bulletin Office, 214 George-
street, Sydney.] _____
THE REFERENDA FUTILITY.
Last week attention- was drawn to two
more difficulties —the 126th and 127th, if
this paper remembers aright —arising out of
the undefined character of the Australian
Constitution. One was a divorce problem,
based on variations of State laws, upon
which Justice Isaacs, of the High Court,
called down the wrath of Moses, and the
indignation of Jacob, and the dead weight of
the boulder which Abraham brought from
Hebron and abandoned on the road between
Bethlehem and Jerusalem. The other a mat-
ter of much greater importance —started with
the issue of a writ by the State Govern-
ment of Queensland —moved thereto by
Digby Denham, produce merchant and
Premier —asking that the High Court
should declare the whole of the sugar bounty
legislation to be null and void, ultra vires,
and beyond the powers of the Common-
wealth. The sugar bounty legislation was
devised as one of the props of the White
Australia policy, and in declaring against
it Digby Denham, as Attorney-General
Hughes remarked, has thrown in his lot
with the nigger labor crowd, the great sugar
monopoly, and with retrogression generally.
In this action, the battle of Federalism ver-
sus State Frights is joined once more, with
Denham as Chief Fright. The rather or-
dinary produce man from Queensland has
taken on a large order, but it is quite pos-
sible that he will win his case. Of late
years State Frights have won their case in
the High Court almost every time, and
though many people have spoken softly in
public-houses and elsewhere to the effect
that certain members of the High Court
seemed to have a remarkable anti-Federal
bias, no one could absolutely prove that its
law wasn’t good. If Digby Denham estab-
lishes his contention to the satisfaction of
the High Court it is hard to say how the
Commonwealth will stand. The decision
will be that it has been dealing for years, in
perfect good faith, and without any question
being raised by anybody, with vast sums of
money that it had no legal right to deal
with. Then the time will be ripe to decide
how it is to recover the money from those
who received it, many of them being by now
gone, dead, insolvent or deranged; and how
it is to repay the money to those who
plied it, the cash having come out of the
general revenue of the country. And if no-
thing can be done in the way of unravelling
the tangle a question may even arise as to
how much this Ministry or that Ministry is
personally responsible for in these unlawful
but perfectly honest dealings ; and how much
each Minister is personally responsible for;
and how to collect the amount, whatever it
is ; and what to do with it if it is collected;
and what to do with any particular Minis-
ter if he simply tells Digby Denham and
all other parties concerned to go out and
throw clods at themselves.
The statement of Attorney-General
Hughes that Denham, of Queensland, has
openly allied himself with Black Labor and
Sugar Monopoly is true, but it doesn’t help
the case so far as the Fisher Ministry is
concerned. The trouble is that the Com-
monwealth seems likely, very soon, through
accumulated decisions of the High Court, to
have very few poAvers left. Practically every
bonus which the Commomvealth has granted,
including that on exported wool “tops” which
has helped so materially to boom a certain
factory at Botany (N.S.W.), may be de-
clared illegal if Denham wins his action.
The case is aggravated by the impossi-
bility of deciding, at the moment when
the Commonwealth does something, whether
it has authority to do that thing or
not. It may firmly believe that it
has the power, as in the case of the
New Protection idea which was ruled out a
few years ago. But it is always aware that
some day some person at present unknown
may see, or think he sees, a flaw at present
undreamt of, the said flaw possibly arising
through circumstances not yet born. Then
he may hire a solicitor who is now at
school, and a barrister who hasn’t even
started practice to-dav, and bring the matter
before a High Court Bench composed of men
whom nobody has heard of yet—including,
perhaps, Samuel Griffith’s present office-
boy—the same hawing got their billets be-
cause existing Judges had died from a
disease that won’t be even identified till ten
years after this date. And the result of it
all may be a decision, handed down in the
year 1933, that the Act which was passed
in the year 1913 was not within the four
corners of the Constitution, and that all the
things that were done under it in 1914 and
1915 and 1916 and the other years up to
the end of 1932 were null and void. After
that Chaos is liable to supervene and Cosmos
Avill go out and hang itself. An ordinary
Parliament, when a Minister or Ministry
has honestly and accidentally exceeded his
or its powers, rushes a Validating Bill
through at one sitting. The Australian
Parliament has to appeal to several millions
of people spread over several million square
miles of ground to get its Validating Bill.
And it may fail to get it simply because a
number of the people are too busy to listen
to the case, or too tired to care about if
too thick-headed to understand it or L S or
away to even hear about it. ’ 100 tar
* * *
It is all futile and uncertain, \n VTOV ,
in Australia to-day the foal is leaping wUu
is to be the remote progenitor of tlfo T
whose toil wiU be the wfg of the J? d ' h t?'
will cheerfully cancel the laws that a 0
tralias Parliament, elected under tho , '
liberal Constitution on earth is nas«ir, m °- st
all good faith at this present’moment li ln
animal should be hailed as the “aTruler “o
Australia. In this country the people can
in theory, do practically everything
things they can do in their Federal capachv
and some in their State capacity hT!?
whole field of political endeavor is’suSnnS
to be covered. The Law, which is
and uncertain beast, and consists reallvi
more or less accidental Judges appointed h,
more or less accidental Governments has t
decide which thing can be done one wav and
which the other. It may resolve, quite une*
pectedly, and in opposition to what had been
long regarded as the purport of the Consti-
tution, that the Commonwealth can’t d
something. That necessarily leaves the snia
something to the State. And it mav r!
solve, owing to the appointment of a new
Judge or two, that the State can’t do that
same thing either. That leaves the matter m
nobody. And if the matter is one of import
ance a good deal of the bottom may fall out
of the country while it is trying to disen-
tangle the knot. There may even be a
freshly-spanked youth somewhere who will
years hence, disqualify the compulsory mili-
tary service law just when an enemy is at
our gates. It is as easy for a countrv to
surrender its freedom to a High Court of its
own making as to a church or pious super-
stition of its own manufacture, and this
country is beginning to realise the fact.
*** * '
Some people reckon that the path of re-
form lies in the appointment of High Court
Judges who are imbued with strongly Fed-
eral and democratic and pro-Australian
principles—in other words, that the Court
which, to a great extent, rules Australia
should be packed with men who will, if
necessary, strain the law in a good cause
Unfortunately no one knows when a Gov-
ernment may come in which will appoint
men to strain the law in a bad cause. Great
good may result now and then through
making friends with Blastus, the King’s
chamberlain, but there is always the danger
that the other fellow may buy Blastus at
a higher figure, or that his own prejudices
may make him not negotiable—just like a
crossed cheque. The fact that Blastus is
for sale, or —what is much the same thing—
holds his office for the purpose of helping his
friends as a matter of sheer goodwill, should
put him out of the reckoning. A vacant
seat on the High Court Bench should be
offered by a Labor Government to the most
incurable Tory in Australia, or by a Tory
Government to the reddest republican, pro-
vided that person happens to be the best
lawyer available. But this sort of thing
could only be made possible by taking away
from the High Court its present absurd
power to interpret the Constitution, which
is much the same as the power to
make a Constitution. If a Court can de-
cide that any kind of a statute means what
it says, or means any old thing that it doesn’t
say but that the Court would like it to
say, then that Court is really a law-making
authority. And that is about the situation
that Australia’s Federal tribunal has at-
tained to. It hasn’t used its powers so
outrageously as it might have done, but all
the same the situation is becoming impos-
sible.
* * * #
Just now there is much talk of an amend-
ment of the Constitution per medium of a
Referendum. But even if the Referendum
proposals are carried, and the new clauses
are added to the Constitution, it will rest
with Mr. Justice Crump or Mr. Justice
Briggs to decide their exact scope and
meaning, when some interested party named
Jenkins thinks he has discovered a flaw,
and hires that eminent counsel Hogg, K.C.,
with Bounder as his junior, to bring
the matter before the Court. And if
the proposed amendments were drafted by
all the heavenly hosts the result would still
be a gamble. The obvious way, and the only-
way, out of the difficulty is to do as Britain
does and hand over all power to a central
Government. Certainly there are inflated
people like Denham and Wade and
McGowen and Watt and others, who hold
that a thousand years of British precedent
go for nothing, just as a lonesome cockroach
wandering in a 400-gallon tank may pre-
sume to criticise the stars, but it isn’t neces-
sary to follow them. The simple British
principle is to have a supreme authority
which constructs all laws, which makes and
amends and, if necessary, interprets its own
Constitution, which depends on no Court
for support—which, in short, is the whole
team and waggon, and also the dog running
under the waggon in quest of. a patch o
shade. As that supreme authority is, m the
last recourse, the people, it is difficult to see
how anybody is aggrieved. This impena
Dower, not having time to do everything
by hand, delegates such of its functions as
it thinks best to such local bodies as it co
siders best, but if a conflict arises it reserve
the right to delimit the two . spheres
action without wasting months in argum
before Mr. Justice Chump, who may ream
know less about the matter than an aver g
politician does. In like manner the a
torate of the Bank of N-.S.W. doesnt
sweep the floor and polish the door
itself, but all the same it is the y° urt j
last resort as to who shall do these ]ob s ».
as to whether the floor is properly s
and the knob sufficiently polished. It
centralised authority, and hasn t to go
Court to ask. at great expense, whethe
instructions to the floor-sweeper or
polisher are, or are not. ultra vtre , ,
the chance of finding the floor disq
and the knob ruled out as unconstitutional.
The Unification and Reconstruction ,
doesn’t imply, a-, the State Fnjght
professes to believe, that an attempt
made to manage everything direct
Federal capital There will be merely an
attempt to get rid of the absur <■ an
having two mistresses in one house-
expensive policeman, as a third h] - tra te
Parliament, living in the kitchen to
between them every tn - #
There is actually no reason why the Aim
tralian Government, under a ni *
Reconstruction policy, should do


work as it does now. If it submitted to the
people, per Referendum, the only question
that is worth submitting— i.e., that of the
temporary transfer to the Commonwealth of
all powers and authorities, revenues, lands,
debts, muddles, officials and responsibilities
—and got a favorable verdict, then it could
really begin to have a rest. It could sub-
divide the Commonwealth into 40 or so con-
veniently-sized States, and endow each of
them with a workable Constitution and a
small, cheap Legislature of one House. It
could delegate its hard toil to these local
authorities to an extent that is quite im-
possible now, simply because it could resume
the delegated powers at short notice
if they were misused, and it wouldn’t have
to fight for them all the time. After the
same fashion a rich man may trust the
management of his estate to a reliable ser-
vant when he couldn’t trust it to an in-
furiated business rival. The Commonwealth
would save all the time, money, worry and
uncertainty that are now involved in quarrel-
ling with its component parts in the law courts.
The losers would be certain State politicians,
who would be reduced from the status of
wild-cat partners in the management of Aus-
tralia to the rank of subordinates. The
people would gain materially. They would
run the whole machine of government, and
do everything, and decide everything. At
present, for want of an effective Unification
and Reconstruction policy, and by reason of
the fact that the people elect a Federal
Legislature and a group of hostile State
Legislatures, the High Court, which stands
between, decides things in the end. And the
man in the street, or the bald-headed indivi-
dual at the back of the tramcar, has as
much effective control over the appointment
of High Court Judges as he has over the
appointment of the Shah of Persia.
[James Ed?>hnd, The Bulletin Office, 214 George-
street, SvArpy.]
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Australian Who Can’t Ride.
Once more “Cavalryman” :
A couple of months ago I wrote: “The delusion
needs to be dispelled that Australians, as a race, are
skilful and experienced horsemen and horsemasters.”
Of course it evoked a flood of shocked protest from
certain quarters. We have a type of adult citizen
who is hampered with a mind which, in many re-
spects, resembles that of the little lad for whom
penny dreadful fiction is written. He is a worshipper
of purely imaginary heroes, and he has a tendency to
mistake splurge for patriotism. It appears to him
a sort of blasphemy that one should represent the
youthful Australian as other than a centaur, and the
suggestion that mere foreigners, who have been
taught to ride and handle horses as carefully as they
have been trained to fight, should excel our young
men as equestrians, drives him well-night frantic.
One “Polstan” urged me to go to the North (or it
might have been the South, or again the East; but
still, it couldn’t well have been the East, for that,
if you start from Sydney, is ocean, and the horse
would get its feet wet) and watch the dauntless
pioneer tame the ravening outlaw there. “Jimmie
Pannikin” questioned bitterly whether I had ever
seen the “long, lean bushman” of the West. And so
on. The only critic who struck me as having a
glimmering of knowledge of his subject was Frank
Brown, of Victoria. Of the European rider he
wrote wildly: “How does he get on with a rough
horse? He can’t sit a buck. How would he get on
chasing a steer through scrub ?” And a heap more
irrelevant chat to the same effect. He wound up
this way: “The shortcomings of the British cavalry-
men lie in their riding schools.” A superb bit of
idiocy, tantamount somewhat to the statement that
the weakness of amateur cricket in England is due
to the employment of groundmen at the big public
schools and universities. As a matter of fact, riding-
schools are precisely what we need in Australia, if
our defence system is to become an effective one. I
see that Lieut.-Colonel Lenehan, Commandant of the
Field Artillery Camp at National Park (N.S.W.),
was reported by the Sydney Telegraph, the other
day, as follows: —
“Apart from the hard work incidental to field artil-
lery, there is the care of the horses. The greater
number of the lads had not had any opportunity of
handling horses before coming into camp, except
what they picked up in the voluntary riding-schools
which were held by the officers prior to the camp.
Knowledge of horses and love of horses are neces-
sary to the successful work of the field gunner.”
Pleasing words those in italics for the person who
has been fondly accustomed to regard the Australian
as one who imbibes horsemanship with his mother’s
milk, so to speak.
Let me repeat calmly, but very firmly, 90 per
cent, of Australians never get nearer, under modern
conditions, to the practice of the only sort of horse-
manship that counts for the purposes of soldiering,
than is afforded by a drive in a sulky or a canter on
a dog-quiet station hack. The “long, lean bushman ’
of the present day mostly bestrides either a bike, or
one of those steeds on which one may go to sleep
and fear nothing unless it is that the animal should
suddenly fall down from sheer weariness and debility.
And, anyhow, under the weird system which is fol-
lowed with such enthusiasm by most of our State
Governments, of attracting as many inhabitants as
possible to the cities, the bushman, lean or other-
wise, is becoming a rare bird. The musters at the
Light Horse camps are notoriously growing smaller
by degrees and unbeautifully less. Very few came
in this vear even to the Canberra camp, where there
was a lot of extraneous glory to be secured in con-
nection with the capital-founding display. One ex-
planation is that the motor is knocking the horse
out among the well-to-do ; another that the £ 1 per
annum, and the few shillings per day allowed by the
Government to each cavalryman is insufficient where
the warrior lacks independent means.
This, by the way, however. The Australians that
chiefly need to be taught to ride, and that, without
teaching, will never learn to ride, are the compulsory
trainees. A vast percentage of these are necessarily
town dwellers, by reason of the fact that the present
system does not touch anyone who lives outside a
five-mile radius of the local training centre. I have
recently seen some hundreds of these young men in
the saddle. The best that can be said for them is
that they are game—as game as anything that ever
fell off a quadruped. But whether they come from
a country centre or whether they are the products of
a Sydney suburb, their pathetic incompetence is
equally marked. So bad are they, indeed, at this
most important part of a soldier’s education, that
a number of N.S.W. Field Artillery officers who take
their job seriouslv, have been driven to turn riding-
instructors. The Lieut.-Colonel Lenehan, mentioned
above for instance, has, to my personal knowledge,
for some time had a riding class, averaging 70 or
more, which he has labored with on Sundays, on Satur-
day afternoons, and occasionally on week nights.
The young men composing it, of course, voluntarily
give up their leisure time in the good cause, and a
lot of praise they deserve for it. But there are
many hundreds more who ought to do likewise, and
My view is that they should be made to. I don’t
claim that we should aim at teaching our trainees
to ride like Austrians or Italians, who are, without
a doubt, the finest soldier horsemen on earth. If our
young gunners can be taught to stay there when their
mounts shy or root to achieve seats that won t give
their steeds sore backs, and to deal- gently with the
animals’ mouths much will have been gained. lo
achieve these vitallv important reforms in any large,
extensive fashion, it will be necessary to rely not on
volunteer riding-masters and pupils, but on compul-
sory military riding-schools, such as we find in other
parts of the civilised globe. There should, for a
start, be one wherever a permanent Field ArGllerv
battery is stationed —-that is to say, at Sydney. \\ agga
and Albury. Newcastle will have a battery pre-
sently, no doubt, and when it does it ought to at
once get a riding-school as well. The battery horses,
instead of being turned out to grass, as at present,
in the off season, might be used by the men attend-
ing the school with obvious benefits to them and to
their riders.
May I ask, in conclusion, that in any further dis-
cussion of this nationally-important subject, writers
should give the “long, lean bushman,” the “sun-
tanned horse-breaker of Back o’ Beyond,” the “dare-
devil outlaw-harasser of the North,” and such-like
sensational rarities, the go-by. They have nothing
to do with a case which rests broad-based on a
couple of facts that are accepted as truisms by those
who know: (1) that taking them in the mass, our
youngsters can’t ride as soldiers understand the term,
and are not in a position to ever learn if left to
themselves; and (2) that an army whose gunners
and so forth are bad horsemen and unskilled horse-
masters is in a most perilous plight.
A Constitutional Point on which J. Cook
and W. H. Irvine Are at issue.
The Sydney Morning Herald quoted
Joseph Cook last week, as follows: —
I am not against reasonable amendments of the
Constitution, because these are necessary in some
respects. We require perhaps a little more in-
dustrial power, and a little more power, perhaps, to
deal with trusts, combines and corporations. The
proposals before us, however, do not, in my judg-
ment, mean reasonable amendment. Etc., etc.
This is the sort of futile stuff which is being
echoed everywhere just now. It suggests to
the uninitiated a large, sane tolerance in the
presence of revolutionary aspirations and
mad irresponsibility. And, of course, for
just so long as it takes the general public
to comprehend the inner signification of the
Referenda issues, such sentiments will carry
weight. And yet they are as devoid of sense
or meaning, really, as any of the objections
to an Australian navy which emanated from
the same quarter a few years ago. It is ad-
mitted, for example, by Liberalism’s extra-
ordinary leader? that the Commonwealth
Parliament requires ’‘a little more industrial
power.” But he warily refrains from men-
tionipg how any increase whatever, in this
respect, is to be provided with one fraction
less in the way of constitutional amendment
than is proposed by the Australian Govern-
ment? At present, the Federal Parliament
has power to make laws ‘‘with respect to
trade and commerce with other countries
and among the States.” It is proposed, by
the Government, to delete the words, “with
other countries and among the States.” The
presence of the last three words in the Con-
stitution nullified such universally approved
DEAKiN-ite measures as the Trade Marks
Act (1905), the Excise Tariff Act (1906),
and the Australian Industries Preserva-
tion Act (1907). They served to
render abortive, or, at any rate, par-
tially so. the Deakin Governments
Seamen’s Compensation Act. The idea of
this Act was that sailors should be able to
recover damages for injuries received while
in the exercise of their profession. It was
decided by the High Court that as the Aus-
tralian Parliament had power only to legis-
late among the States, a sailor who was hurt
while journeving between the ports of any
one State had no redress. Thus, if a mariner
fell off a yardarm and broke a leg, or what
not, on a voyage between (say) Sydney and
Brisbane, he could recover; if the same acci-
dent happened, with the same result on a
voyage between Sydney and Broken Bay, he
couldn’t. To the mind of the ordinary, non-
legal man of the world a position of that
sort seems almost too absurd for broad farce.
It is to obviate such anomalies that the
Government wants the Trade and Commerce
clause amended. Without the deletion of
the words “among the States,” they can never
be obviated. In fact, without the deletion of
those words the Commonwealth Parliament
cannot achieve either the “little more indus-
trial powers” which J. Cook affects to aspire
after, or anv fraction of increased power at
all. With the deletion of them, Parliament,
of course, achieves very wide commercial
powers indeed—the powers, in fact, which
the framers of the Constitution thought Par-
liament had, and meant to have, 13 years
ago. W. H. Irvine, K.C., the best constitu-
tional lawyer on the Opposition side, in an
address which was delivered before the days
when the Referenda question had become a
sort of party issue, stated at least part of
the case for the present Australian Govern-
ment in the following uncompromising
terms: —
There is no middle course between the extremely
artificial restrictions in the Constitution upon the
trade and commerce power, and the complete power
to deal with commerce proposed by this (Trade and
Commerce clause) amendment.
Rightly considered, it is only another way
of saying that the politician who blithers
solemnly about the desirability of dowering
Parliament with “a little more power,” when
“complete power to deal with commerce” is
alone of any avail, has no knowledge of the
rudiments of his subject.
[John Bede Dalley, The Bulletin Office, 211
George-street, Sydney.]
A Measure which is Behaving Like a
Boomerang.
Referenda discourse: —
The Fisher Government’s Act enjoining that, dur-
ing the heat and fury of a Federal election, all
newspaper comment thereon must be signed, has
operated in a roundabout sort of fashion to deal a
shrewd blow at the Nationalist cause. One effect of
it has been to give the Conservative papers a more
or less colorable excuse to boycott the Referenda
questions as a subject for discussion. From the
point of view of those who wish to see the proposals
carried, any comment on them, however biassed or
unintelligent, is better than none. The elector will
not support a policy which he is unable to under-
stand. The truth of this axiom has been proved
repeatedly in Switzerland, where all the more com-
plicated Referenda proposals have been negatived
over and over again. It is not easy to state the
urgent necessity for the Constitutional changes asked
for by the Australian Government in the concrete,
embodied and short terms which most appeal to the
person in the street. If they are to be comprehended
widely they must be hammered at again and again,
for the issues involved are extremely complicated.
Take the words in the Constitution which a majority
of the High Court has held to so limit the Common-
wealth’s power over corporations that the Australian
Parliament can touch no purely State Trust at all.
One who had not carefully studied the judgment in
(say) Huddart Parker’s case would find it difficult
to so much as find them. The High Court decision
in the Kalibia case rendered the Seamen’s Compensa-
tion Act (1909) to all intents and purposes abortive.
Our precious Trade and Commerce clause was respon-
sible for that fiasco. Its bearing on the matter is
clear enough to a certain limited section; but to
the average member of the public it and similar
problems amount, seemingly, to so many Insoluble
Mysteries. The writer has discussed the Fisher
proposals with all classes of citizens in the past
couple of years—-business men, doctors, navvies, solici-
tors and so forth. Practically without exception
they betrayed the completest ignorance on the sub-
ject. Some had a vague idea that, if our Parliament
were given the same power to deal with commerce,
monopolies, etc, that the British Parliament possesses,
there would be a regime of Communism; and they
were consequently favorable to a change. Others had
an equally vague notion that an affirmative answer
would mean the Socialisation of everything; and the
prospect rendered them panic-stricken and enraged.
But none of them attempted to explain why they
thought this country, as a result of its National Par-
liament being given the powers which the chief Par-
liament of almost every other civilised State has had
for years and years, would do what none of those coun-
tries has ever dreamed of doing. And none of them was
able to go into the ease either for or against the
proposals in any sort of detail. They had no know-
ledge of the measures whose invalidation led up to
the present agitation for a Constitutional change; no
comprehension of the national calamity which is in-
volved in an almost impotent Parliament; no glim-
mering of a real acquaintance with the historical
High Court judgments of the last half-dozen years ; in
fact, no anything that was worth listening to.
The press is chiefly responsible for this painful
state of affairs. Ninety per cent, of citizens look
to it for political arguments and enlightenment. Not
being accustomed to think for themselves on any
subject but their own particular jobs, they are
mentally lost the moment the papers fail them. The
sort of exasperatingly futile stuff that has been
handed to them of late was well exemplified in a
recent Sydney Sunday Times leader. Its nai'f imbe-
cilitv makes it worth quoting at some considerable
length:—
“NO! AND SAFETY.
“All who desire to secure the progress of Australia
on a safe basis must vote No at the referenda. Never
at any time should the Constitution be altered unless
there is grave cause for it. The very fact that it is
now sought to make alterations in the absence of
such cause indicates that the legislators responsible
for the proposal, and the others backing it, fail to
appreciate the true responsibility of their position.
If every Government that comes into power is going
to chop about the Constitution iust to satisfv its
whims and caprices, we shall in the course of half a
century or so get down to about the level of a South
American Republic.
“It may be at once conceded that the Constitution
is not entirely satisfactorv. No Constitution ever
is entirely satisfactory, or ever will be. But if it is
endurable, if it does not check the progress of the
country, or inflict hardship upon anv considerable
section of the community, then it should remain
untouched. There can be no proper respect either for
the Constitution or for Australia on the nart of those
who are so ready to tinker with basis of our
greatness, actual and prospective. When alterations
are proposed merely with the object of bolstering
sectional ideas, then the proposals are all the more
reprehensible.” Etc., etc.
The conscientious elector, nosing frantically around
in quest of exact information, can take his change
out of illuminating efforts such as the one quoted
above. After the 24th inst. he won’t even get this
much, seemingly; since many of the papers have
announced their intention of going on strike, so to
sneak, as regards political leading articles, by wav
of protest against the signed article business. And
the pro-Referenda cause will be the loser thereby. A
skilful assault on a cause does that cause good, if
the cause is good, since it stimulates interest and
investigation. Such an assault as the above does
any cause good, since it automatically ranges the
forces of idioev on the other side. As a result of
Fisher’s signed article notion we shall have no more
assaults unconsciously humorous, or otherwise. Which
is one of the reasons whv I am laying long odds on a
“No” answer next month.
[John Bede Dalley, The Bulletin Office, 214
George-street, Sydney.]
+
More News About a Closed Port.
One of the good ports which N.S.W. keeps
closed against shipping, lest it should give
the adjacent populace a cheap and handy
outlet for their produce, and thus compete
against the Sydney monopoly, got a good
sort of advertisement the other day. this
place was Port Stephens, the marine spot
which the outrageous McGowen Govern-
ment deprived of all connection with the
new North Coast railway by the simple
process of taking that line round in a great
curve to avoid it. Said a witness before the
Dominions’ Commission: —
Port Stephens contains a very large area of deep
water and the Decentralisation Commission has
recommended that it should be opened up, and that
railways should be constructed to bring the northern
and western trade there, which now comes on to
Sydney. . . ,
Port Stephens contains a larger area of still, deep
water than Sydney Harbor. The depth at the en-
trance is 37 to 40 feet right through.
Port Stephens lies practically alongside the
coalfields—in fact, it is handier to some ol
the coal deposits than Newcastle is. Con-
cerning this latter —the second port 1U
N.S.W., and the only port, bar Sydney,
available for _ oversea shipping —this was the
depressing evidence: —
There is a depth at present of between 23ft. and
24ft. at low water. A vessel clearing 27ft. fully
loaded has left Newcastle under favorable conditions
of weather and tide.
To put the matter shortly, the merit of
Newcastle is its badness. It is so bad that
vessels won’t go there except under compul-
sion. It is so darned bad that it will never
compete seriously against Sydney. There-
fore it is the only port which is given a
chance to compete seriously against Sydney.
Of such is the whole gospel of Congestion,
and among the prophets thereof are
McGowen. the Sydney landlord, and Hol-
man, the Sydney lawyer, and Griffith, the
Sydney patent agent.
♦
N. S. Wales Railway Commissioner John-
son explained a hard subject to the Domin-
ions’ Commission: —
For two consecutive years I have had to order
30,000 tons of rails for the Railway Department alone. I
sent the inquiry in September last year, and I did
not want delivery till after July 1, but owing to the
rail ring I had the greatest difficulty to get a quota-
tion. I asked for quotations in America and I had
the greatest difficulty, because there is an arrange-
ment between them and the European manufacturers.
After going down almost on my knees I succeeded
in getting a quotation in America.... Knowing how
very little duplications the English railways are
doing, it is difficult for me to understand why we
cannot get our orders placed in the Old Country.
The reason is that there is an arrangement between
the manufacturers of the United States, Great Britain
and Europe to allocate orders.
Well, how about Australia making its own
rails, by the aid of Protection or Government
enterprise, or any other old thing? Appar-
ently even in England, with all the blessings
of Freetrade and Private Enterprise, the
combine or trust has arisen, and is taking
the world by the ear.
[Patrick Thomas Freeman, 22 Cleveland-street,
Darlington, Sydney.]
“P.W., Jun.” writes from London :
As, when you have read the following, you will be
converted to our national system of Freetrade, allow
me to congratulate you and myself in advance.
Being a “right-thinking” journal, The Bulletin
is already aware that it is only under the benighted
reign of Protection that the cost of living increases
by leaps and bounds. Here, in England, we enjoy
the blessings of Freetrade; hence, while you have
been paying more for the things you eat and drink
and wear, we have simply been wallowing in the
luxury of lower prices. The following is an official
statement of the movement in staples in this coun-
try since 1905: —
1905. 1912.
Tea (untaxed), lb. .. £0 0 7 £0 0 9
Coffee (untaxed), ewt. .. 210 0 310 0
Currants, cwt. .. ..0170 150
Rice, cwt. . . .. 0 7 0 0 9 0
Tapioca, cwt. .. .. 012 0 13 0
Milk, gallon . . ..0 0 8 0 0 94
Eggs, dozen . . .. 0 0 84 0 0 104
Butter, cwk . . ..5 5 0 6 2 0
Cheese, cwt. . . ..2 1 2 3 0 0
Bread, cwt. . . ..0 8 0 0 10 0
Bacon, cwt. .. ..2 6 9 3 3 0
Beef, 81b 0 4 6 0 5 6
Mutton, 81b 0 5 11 0 6 4
Coal, ton 0 15 3 116
On second rea'ding, something seems to have gone
wrong with the figures. They don’t fit the theory.
Well, so much the worse for the figures. Thank
Heaven, nothing can ever go wrong with the theory.
♦
Professor Macmillan Brown mentioned
cheerily, the other day, that Australasia had
nothing to fear from Japan—at any rate,
for half a century or so: —
Japan was swamped in debt. It was a poor coun-
try, vet the poor people paid 30 per cent, and the
rich '6O per cent, of their revenue to support the
army and navy. The burden of debt made it im-
possible for Japan to menace us. But in China
there were unlimited resources, and Japan was
straining every nerve to gain control of those re-
sources.
There is something unsatisfactory about
this reasoning. Nippon is admittedly taxed
up to the eyes for something. The largest,
richest and easiest proposition in the world
for the brown person to tackle is Northern
Australia. Why, in the circumstances,
should the brown country wait 50 years to
tackle that proposition, staggering the while
under the vast orb of its debt and periodi-
cally enlarging the said orb by further ex-
penditure on an idle and useless army and
navy? The proposition doesn’t seem to
hang together somehow.
“Ivory,” out of the depths of much experi-
ence :
I have no personal interest in the matter, but de-
clare on my honor as a good and (I hope) patriotic
Australian that the proposal to make Bitter Springs
(N.T.) the site of the Federal horsebreeding estab-
lishment should be killed dead. There certainly is
an abundance of good clear water at the Springs,
but when you have said that you have said all that
you can to recommend the place. The soil is sandy,
and the grass rank and sour, and utterly unfitted as
fodder for embryo chargers. I remember travelling
once with a mob of cattle that had been spelling
about the Waterhouse. We headed for the Elsie
and Newcastle Waters. For 20 miles after leaving
Bitter Springs the grass was of such poor quality
(although it was abundant and green) that the
hornies hardly stopped to pick at all, but walked
with their heads in the air. The Roper River country
would make a fine horsebreeding station if it wasn t
for the cursed alligators ; but the pick of the lot is
the country east of Newcastle Waters. It consists
of bluebush swamps, forest land on the ridges, and
beautiful rolling downs, with a lot of limestone in
it — a sine qua non where horsebreeding is con-
cerned. Water could be obtained by boring. A horse
station could be formed here worthy indeed of the
name. But whether the Newcastle country be chosen
or not, I strongly advise the Government to leave
Bitter Springs to its half-civilised niggers and scrub
cattle.
A Parliamentary Commission in S.A. is
taking evidence on the very old, but increas-
ingly important, question of the navigation
of the Murray mouth. To' open that mouth
for shipping of any size would cost probably
£2.000,000, with no guarantee that it would
not be closed again with silt almost imme-
diately. At Victor Harbor, outside the
mouth, a lot of money has been spent; but
railways which have “tapped” the river
higher'up have put Victor Harbor to sleep,
and made the permanent and reproductive
works there of no value whatever.. Goolwa,
just inside the mouth, is deader still. Mean-
while, all the traffic from the lately-settled
lands on the lower Murray has to go by rail
to Adelaide. The most favored plan at the
moment is to spend a bit on bringing Victor
Harbor up to date, and to cut a ten-mile
canal to it from Goolwa. And about the
time that job is finished Australia will make
ui) its mind that it hasn’t enough water to
spare, after taking all it wants for irriga-
tion, to float anything bigger than a canoe
out to sea.
The Plaint of the Native-born.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Free was I born, and free I stand,
Ambition stirring in my breast,
Born in earth’s widest, brightest land
Where life has still its primal zest;
Nurtured on visions grand and vast,
Skin-bronzed by such a splendid sun,
On all the ruins of the past
I face the hope I dare not shun.
Whatever human hands may make,
Whatever human brain conceive,
Is mine by pride of strength to take
And in a newer pattern weave;
The wheels obedient to my thought
To nobler purposes shall turn,
The ready lightnings tamed and caught
As torches of my progress burn.
Mine is the wonder of the loom.
And mine the forge’s leaping fire,
Where, battered as with strokes of doom,
The hot steel answers my desire;
Beauty is mine to know and feel,
And in the clearness of my days
The furnace and the potter’s wheel
Are rife with works of newer praise.
Stripped for the race, with zeal to win,
I stand keen-eyed and strong of heart,
Yet fearful that a statesman’s sin
May dash my growing dreams apart.
The time draws on, the hour is late,
I stand aloof with empty hands.
While through our wide, unguarded gate
Pours in the work of other lands.
A stranger takes my heritage
Of nobler work and higher toil,
While I with wasted brain engage
In humble battle with the soil.
With stiff-bowed back beneath the ban
I till the ground and sow the seed,
I, the potential artisan.
The man of destiny and deed.
They prate of primal industry
As native to our clime and place,
As though a man’s high work might be
Driving shorn wethers through a race !
High hopes upon their wheel they break,
Large words and idle round they fling,
And statecraft bends itself to make
A strait-backed peasant of a king.
The parties rise, the parties fall,
Blind mouths are in a nation’s lead.
Blind counsels hold the land in thrall,
They burn the corn and save the weed ;
And while ambitions in me burn,
E’er hope be dead and courage fly,
To alien shores I needs must turn
To find my work that these deny.
N.S.W.
GEORGE STREET.


jgh ĥ
Garden
Seeds.
j ħ
NO MONEY WANTED.
TN order to introduce our HIGH-GRADE
J- TESTED SEEDS into every home, we are
giving away prizes such as MUSICAL IN-
STRUMENTS, SILVER WATCHES AND
CHAINS, CAMERAS, RABBIT RIFLES,
LADIES’ MUFF CHAINS, SOLID GOLD
RINGS, JEWELLERY, etc., FREE to the
value of One Thousand Pounds. All you have
to do is to Send Us Your Name and Address,
and we will forward you 24 assorted packets of
our Reliable Seeds, such as Turnip, Lettuce,
Cabbage, Tomato, Wallflower, Sweet William,
Mignonette, Gai lardia, etc. Sell the packets at
3d. per packet, send us our money (65.), and
we will send you by return mail any nresent you
may select from our grand list. WE TRUST
YOU —THE RISK IS OURS. You may return
the seeds if not sold. . Don’t delay. SEND AT
ONCE before our offer is withdrawn.
gh
1
Ji
f\
5 .
m
'.Hi %
i i
«r
’ ! fM
r«
f ft* 4 *
7’j*r
After a Trying Shopping Tour
drop into one of our theatres. Every-
thing is restful; soft lights, easy chairs,
quiet, interesting pictures, pleasing
music.
Can anything be more restful? And the
cost is a trifle.
The Crystal Palace—Sydney.
The Britannia Melbourne.
WILLIAM B. MILLER, Gen’l Manager.
WHERE
EYERYSOOY
GOES
The Barrier (N.S.W.) strike ended on Sat-
urday. The seven non-unionists are to be
allowed to go on being non-unionists. On
the other hand, no one else in the employ of
the Silverton Tramway Co. is to be a non-
unionist, as from last Saturday to the Day
of Judgment inclusive. Both sides may
fairly claim to have won ; and are, of course,
doing it. As in politics, so in strikes, if you
don’t score a win, you score a moral victory,
which is gratifying enough to a certain
limited extent —about as gratifying as a
pannikin of tepid water is to a thirsty man
who had confidently expected iced beer. In
the present case, the Silverton Tramway Co.
and the B.L.F. have gained moral victories ;
a fact which may be readily gathered by the
expression of their respective faces. Of
course, the strike really had little to do with
either party. The primary factor was Broken
Hill. Job would go on strike, from time to
time, if he had to live for long in this local-
ity ; and, in similar circumstances, St. Peter
would be driven periodically to declare a
lock-out. The trouble is lack of decent scen-
ery, lack of amusement, lack of surf-bathing,
dust-storms, and the dreary spectacle of the
dumps from the mines. A certain amount of
slag will make anybody strike. Let Aus-
tralia rejoice that, for the present, the un-
pleasantness on the Barrier has simmered
down. But let it not forget, in its joy, that
as certainly as the sparks fly upwards and
the slag falls downwards, another un-
pleasantness, of a something similar sort, will
simmer up again. Industrial rows are among
the few relaxations that the district enjoys.
N. S. Wales Railway Commissioner John-
son has just scored a good one over some
infernal unionists. By edict of the Arbitra-
tion Court artisans sent to work in the
country are entitled to a travelling allow-
ance, but when Johnson recently despatched
four brickies from Sydney to Harden, the
allowance wasn’t forthcoming, and a sum-
mons was issued against him. At the con-
clusion of the men’s case, the Commission-
er’s solicitor didn’t dispute the rights of the
case, but raised the following points:—
1. The evidence didn’t show the men went to
Harden.
2. The evidence didn’t show the Commissioner
engaged them.
3. The evidence didn’t show what the ruling rates
of wages were.
The magistrate asked the lawyer not to press
the technicalities raised. But he insisted,
and the Court, not having any proof before
it that the toilers didn’t go to Timbuctoo, for
the Caliph of Bagdad at 3d. a day, dismissed
the cases, with costs for Johnson. It was
a great victory for Johnson.
<♦-
William Lyne, now just on his 70th mile-
post, isn’t going to stump the Hume elector-
ate, but will run the campaign from his easy
chair. Still he is growing stronger, and
hopes, if he is returned, to be back in the
House of Reps, good and early, and say
things in the cause of Australian industry
that will make Joseph Cook wish he had
never been born.
Somebody’s attempt to whitewash the
trustees of Bendigo (Vic.) cemetery, a re-
cent scandal concerning which was tidily
covered up and buried not long ago, led to
the publication in the Age of one paragraph
in a Vic. Board of Health officer’s report on
the matter. It ran: “Inspection of
Vaults. —A grave state of affairs
disclosed. The vault of the Blank
family, measuring 20 xl5 x 12, contained
Bft. of dark-looking water, which I
was informed overflowed during wet
weather into a gutter adjoining, which
again led to a creek from which cer-
tain of the residents obtain their drinking
water. The vault of the Blankdash family
showed similar conditions, save that the
coffins were plainly visible through the
water.” And foolish Bendigo, which doesn’t
“believe in” cremation, wonders why typhoid
is so prevalent. How can it be otherwise
with the remains of the Blank family float-
ing in Bft. of drinking water?
“Siivertail” : Some of the true inwardness
of the tipping system was exhibited in Syd-
ney last week by one Millett, an hotel waiter
who gave evidence before the Hotelkeepers’
Employees’ Wages Board. On a weekly
wage of 275. 6d., he averaged 30s. in tips, the
smallest of which was Id. He spoke with
regretful reverence of a Queenslander who
had once tipped him £2. That was the
record. Women, said Millett, generally left
tipping to the men. He did not emphasise
the truism that a single girl, gay or demure,
is more generous in these vicarious tips than
a married woman —a married woman, that
is, accompanied by her husband. City men
who were frequent customers were rather
shabby in their treatment of him. When
bringing change to a diner, he invariably
placed a sixpence among it, that he might be
tipped therewith. He did not say whether
his hotel was frequented by visiting farmers.
These, on the authority of a night porter, a
boots and a head waiter, three good friends
of mine, are the slowest of created beings in
the matter of gratuities. Personally, I ad-
mire a person who does not tip. His absti-
nence (arouses a resentment in the untipped
which is a much more manly sentiment than
rhe smiling subservience which may be
bought for a sprat.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Antony and Cleopatra.”
Her Majesty's. “Puss in Boots.”
Criterion “The Fortune Hunter.”
Palace “On Our Selection.”
Adelphi “The Woman Pays.”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Little Theatre “The Man on the Box.”
National Amphitheatre Brennan’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric. 1
Colonial r Continuous Pictures.
Empress. J
Crystal Palace Continuous Pictures, etc.
8LYM™:::::::::*.h v est’ s
Imperial Roller Rink . Roller Skating.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Count of Luxembourg.”
Princess’s. “Dr. Wake’s Patient.”
Kino’s “Faust.”
Royal “Milestones.”
Opera House Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric, Praliran Photo Plays.
Majestic Amalgamated Pictures.
Arcadia. Si. Hilda The Dandies.
Athen.eum Hall Joseph McCabe.
♦ *
Sydney audiences are still packing the
Criterion to see Fred Niblo set out to seek
his fortune and find it in Josie Cohan. This
is probably due to the fact that so many of
the audience, when they find the girl, find
that the fortune has vanished in green-
grocers’ bills.
* * * *
From the time the orchestra knocks off
with a jerk and the curtain rises, till the
bowing and blushing heroine presses the
usual consignment of vegetable matter close
to her bosom, “The Woman Pays,” at the
Adelphi, doesn’t show the least inclination
to wander the smallest part of an inch from
the well-worn ruts of Marlowdrama. In
fact, there’s no reason why it should not
bear the label of almost any of its predeces-
sors without arousing suspicion ; also, there’s
very little reason why it should be there at
all. They’re all present. The ruined father
(M. St. John) has an expiring mortgage on
the house wherein his ancestors have lived
for centuries, and probably mortgaged for cen-
turies. The bad egg (T. W. Lloyd—why does
the melodramatist never show us the bad hen
that precedes all these eggs?) offers to dis-
charge the mortgage if he can marry the old
man’s daughter. The daughter (Nellie Bram-
ley) loves a fisherman. The pore but Zionest
fisherman (George Cross) has his boat cut
adrift by the villain, and, as a result, goes
honestly to sea, is wrecked, and is one of
two survivors of a crew of 20 or so, is
taken to Australia, where he gets rich (the
Lord only knows how), and is consequently
driven from the country. The unfortunate
“ON OUR SELECTION AT THE
PALACE , SYDNEY.
"The Kango,” a new outback ’roo step dance,
perjormed by Uncle Driscoll and 'Rov.
girl (Nellie Fergusson) has been roo-ined by
the villain, and turns up regularly at the
most awkward times to demand money of
him, “for my chee-ild,” and causes him to
splutter, “You again, damn you. Here’s
£5O. Now go to Hell!” (No one ever got
as far as Hell with only £50.) Then there’s
her unwelcome nipper, who causes a lot of
trouble by dying at 10.30 p.m., instead of
7.45 p.m., and the comic relief who happens
to see whatever murder is going on, and pro-
vides the only real evidence in the end. To
sum up : while, none of the characters howl
loudly for an immediate rise in screw, none
would quite justify the boss in giving them
the sack. To those who have a liking for
all-in melodrama, and who can put up with
repetition, “The Woman Pays” will com-
mend itself. To those who like a change of
air, it won’t. The lady will continue to
spar up till the end of next week.
** * *
At the weekly meeting of Sundry Shows,
held in The Bulletin this day, it was de-
cided, on the motion of the Tanglefoot Edi-
tor, to condole with the Habitually Tanked
(and other) members of the community in
the great bereavement they have sustained by
the loss of Paul Gorden, “the drunk on the
wire.” Gorden rolled home over the old in-
visible track on Wednesday night, for the
last time at the National Amphitheatre. A
vote of thanks was passed to Spenser Kelly
and Marion Wilder, whose pleasant singing
had helped the Tanglefoot Editor and the
Religious Editor to bear up between sermons.
** # s
“The Man on the Box” continues to crack
a golden-lashed whip at the Little Theatre
(Sydney). The carriage is now in the fifth
week of its financial bolt, and all the hoses
in the Central Fire Station next door could
not put out the fire of public enthusiasm.
* * * *
There has been a slight alteration in con-
nection with tike re-flicking of the Panama
Canal films, and the J.D.W. management has
decided on the Empress Theatre instead of
the Crystal Palace, as arranged. Next Mon-
day, Tuesday and Wednesday are fixed for
the “last opportunity.”
“Antony and Cleopatra” arrived at Sydney
Royal, last Saturday, and the dazzled first-
nighter, with incense fumes in his nostrils,
fanned himself with his programme and re-
marked dazedly: “Asche N a wonder! Why,
it’s more gorgeous than ‘Kismet’!” From a
purely spectacular point of view, this pro-
duction of Baconspear’s deathless old love
story is “Kismet” crossed with “Julius
Osar.” The beautiful costume contrasts
are going on all the time—the gorgeously
quaint drapings of sensuous Egypt against
the brass armor, dyed horsetail plumes, and
leather war harness of virile Rome. The set-
ting, apparently, is complete down to the last
jewel and fan feather; and, by reason of
careful study and drilling, the gestures and
by-play of the most remote supers are absorb-
ing to watch. A few grains of praise must
in justice be flung to the company of pains-
taking artists who supply the human back-
ground. Lily Brayton plays Cleopatra in a
vividly red, braided wig. Red hair is now
the recognised stage symbol for female de-
pravity, but the imperious lady’s wickedness
stops there. Otherwise, she _is just a
thoroughly spoilt and unconventional woman
with an erratic temper. Miss Brayton looks
beautiful, and is beautifully graceful in a
library of barbaric clothes. Her elocution is
admirable always. Oscar Asche, though
somewhat too burly as the lover, makes a
splendidly massive soldier, and is at his best
when he planks his helmet down on Caesar’s
table and talks straightly to him. Herbert
Grimwood, always a little too vehement as
the deserter Enobarbus, dies finely alongside
his treasure chest in Caesar’s encampment.
Frederic Worlock acts with dignity as the
fiery young Caesar. lan Penny throws out
his fine chest in 79 studied poses as a sort of
half-clothed Egyptian butler; and sooth-
sayer Caleb Porter stares with wild eyes into
the alleged future, while wearing his. chin
whiskers in a neat case to keep the witches
off. Olive Noble is just noticeable in the
low-spirited part of Octavia, the deserted
wife of infatuated Antony; and M. Orton-
Dring (Charmian), and Lilian Birtles (Iras)
sit gracefully at the feet of Cleopatra. The
magnificently sombre scenery (by Joseph
Harker), and the cymbal-clashing music
(Christopher Wilson and Wynne Jones)
complete a notable artistic production.
The latest idea in the business of attract-
ing custom to the moving picture shows takes
the form of encouraging theatre parties, or
more properly, cinematoparties. West’s Ltd.
evolved and developed the scheme in connec-
tion with “Les Miserables” (Victor Hugo’s
ancient romance), now being flicked at the
Olympia and Glaciarium (Sydney) and
West’s Palace (Melbourne).
** * *
In the same spirit as one might mention
that Pinchgut is still there, that the S. M.
Herald continues to foresee the utter ruin
of Australia if Labor is not immediately
biffed out of office for ever, and that the
S. Pacific ocean has not desisted from hurling
itself against the coast of N. S. Wales, the
writer intimates wearily that “Puss in
Boots” persists at Her Majesty’s, Sydney.
The J. C. Williamson Panto, is becoming an
institution, like Bruce Smith, the rotten
roads of Sydney, and the dryness of Can-
berra, and to announce that it has not van-
ished is like gilding the lily or pouring beer
into Tooth’s brewery.
The Jackson family of cyclists, now show-
ing at the Tivoli, are clever exponents of the
poetry of wheeled motion; but their turn be-
comes trying when the daring male star of
the' troupe starts to climb up a four-storey
machine while propelling it round on its
rear wheel. The chief charm of a trick
bicycle turn is its gliding ease ; when it be-
comes laborious, it is just sensationally dull.
The return of Nella Webb and her skilful
young accompanist has strengthened a bill
"that wasn’t by any means gone in the knees.
Harry Corson Clarke and Margaret Dale
Owen score brightly with their absurdity,
“Strategy,” while George Bryant and Co.
make a serious appeal with “Katey Did.”
The diverting Cummin and Seaham and
burnt corkist Will Whitburn supply the other
first-rank turns.
** * *
The return of the Bailey-Duggan-Grant co.
to Sydney and the revival of “On Our Selec-
tion,” at the Palace, were the occasion of
much disappointment and Lee and Perrin
language on Saturday night. That is to say,
Saturday was the occasion of these draw-
backs to those who happened along in dila-
tory herds about eight o’clock, and found all
the available roosting places occupied, the
ticket boxes deserted, and the manager’s
boiled shirt a desolation, like the ruins of
Palmyra, where it had collided with infuri-
ated customers, who declared they would
gain admittance to the show or burst. The
neighborhood was strewn with those who
failed to keep their word about the admit-
tance part of the rash statement. It was a
joyous night. Dad and Dave and the rest
of the Steele Rudd family were given the
reception of their lives, and if the successful
Australian comedy had not been seen before
by the bulging audience, it could not have
been more thoroughly enjoyed. Bert Bailey
showed no alteration in the part of that
lovable old ruffian, Dad. He could hardly
have interpreted it any better when he first
played it at the Palace, and he wisely
let it go at that. Fred Macdonald’s fine read-
ing of Dave has also been carefully pre-
served ; and if anybody has any complaint to
make about Laura Roberts, as Sarah, he will
do it at his own risk. The most interesting
incident of the performance was the apnea v
ance of Ada Oakley, as Kate Rudd (the part
formerly misplayed by Mary Marlowe) Mi«
Oakley came from England with good ere
dentials (although an Australian girl shnnla
have had first claim on the part), and on
Saturday night, despite some nervousness
appeared likely to bear out all her sponsors
have to say about her. She has an enviable
voice, and a quiet stage personality calcu-
lated to place her on terms of firm friendship
with an audience. There was no other
change in the cast. Ned Duggan’s magenta
whiskers were at the old address. Alfreda
Bevan handed the moulting parson the last
scone in the ’ouse with the original grace of
Mum. Arthur Bertram was Joe (or near
enough). Guy Hastings kept the hero up to
standard (despite a throat raw with cold)
George Treloar warmed up to extra good
in sheer joy of being back in Sydney, and
the others on the Selection are hereby mus-
tered and branded O.K. No change of bill
is likely for six weeks or more.
“Tokio Town,” making its first Austra-
lian appearance at the Exhibition in Ade-
laide, under the J. and N. Tait direction, is
a quaint and pleasing show, entirely Japan-
ese. Top spinning, tub balancing, juggling
with bowls full of water, and Risley work
are seen at their highest pitch. Swords are
a great feature of the display. Furiya has
his weapon out (and back) and the enemy
(whatever it may be), cut in half meantime,
as quickly as any cowboy can handle a re-
volver. The spinning and catching of the
sword is clever and reckless. Miss Mura-
kami climbs a ladder of 20 razor-like blades
barefoot —which would seem to be either a
brilliant “fake” or impossible. If she slipped
she ought to be cut in two and fall down,
one half this side and the other half that
side. The Samurai sword-dance and parade
is watched in silent astonishment, the idea
—except for a hari-kari finish—being utterly
strange to Australian audiences, while the
Jap music suggests the beating of a wire
fence with a stick, and the singing recalls
them who sell milk or the wild rabbit. There
is a kind of Japanese village as a side show,
where whole families can be seen more or
less as when at home, and the whole outfit
is attractively novel.
v
Adelaide Tivoli has a strong programme,
with plenty of variety in it. The Patty
Frank people are as funny as they are agile,
and the same remark applies to the newcome
Maxinis (plus dog), likewise to Foy and
Kitchen. Jansen has gone from the Royal,
and would like to get his tons of parapher-
nalia to Broken Hill if the railway would
let him. He had a week of full houses. An-
derson’s strong melo. co. has just come in
with a “Queen of the Highway”—very Yan-
kee. The King’s has very nearly a new deal.
The delightful Van Camp piglets have moved
on; Athas and Collins, Esmeralda and Elec-
tra (who takes uncounted volts and asks for
more) are among the stars. West’s, Won-
dergraph and Empire are showing the Eng-
lish ’Varsity boatrace, Grand National falls
and other thrills.
** * *
The Hamilton-Plimmer crow 7 d at the Prin-
cess’s signalised its return to Melbourne on
Saturday by the reproduction of “Dr. Wake’s
Patient,” wherein the rise of a medico to
honor and affluence is unfaithfully depicted
for young and old. As on the play’s former
presentation at the Spring-street address,
Miss Beatrice Day enacts the skittish and
radical Lady Gerania, whose accident in the
vicinity of the house of Wake becomes the
foundation of a life’s romance. Miss Day
pictures the part with her usual cleverness,
though her Gerania nowadays is touched with
the ennui of middle age. Mrs. Brough decor-
ates her old part of the Countess St. Olbyn
with just the right quantity of years and
discretion- —but then there are very few parts
that this fine actress doesn’t decorate. Geo.
Titheradge brings to the role of her lord and
menial the moribund air of a faded swell.
Miss Lizette Parkes, in the small character
of Harriet Bronson, gives infrequent hearings
of an elocution too sweet for words; while
Miss Kate Towers and Arthur Styan (more
convincingly bucolic than Herbert Flemming
of old) nlay the Wake parents to pleasant
effect. Sydney Stirling gives the audience a
choice impression of Duff Wynterdon, but
H. R. Roberts’s fancy for presenting a hero
like a cross between an archangel and a
bread-and-butter miss detracts from the value
of his Forrester Wake. In his sensible
moments the mummer is right enough, but
when he tries Pathos in broken tones, the
voice of Roberts is the voice of insincerity.
** * *
Henri French, the “intoxicated genius”
whose trick-biking is as skilful as his magic
and by-play, is a new feature of the Opera
House show. Taylor and Arnold reappeared
on Saturday with their brisk ragtime turn,
and the pretty lady who sits on the piano,
while Rosie Lloyd still recounts how the
leaves are falling with a “tiddly-wink” in her
glad eye. De Biere, Will Poluski and the
Ivremkas are on the point of departure, but
Welch and Carbasse will continue to arouse
slumbering recollections of a clothes effect
that distinguished a former sketch at the
Mclntosh house.


I
CHWEPPES
; ■■
'
* *
SCHWEPPES’
Lime Juice Cordial
made exclusively from Montserrat Lime Fruit
Juice, by special arrangement with the
proprietors of Montserrat. Montserrat Lime
Fruit Juice is a most refreshing and thirst-
quenching drink. It is soft and palatable to
the palate, so unlike all other Lime Juice.
SCHWEPPES LIMITED,
Purveyors to His Majesty the King.
Keep it
On Hand
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS.
NABOB BOOT PASTE,,
Jhe Waterproof
Boot Polish.
ONE APPLICATION WILL LAST A WEEK, A BRUSH UP
BEING ALL THAT IS NECESSARY IN BETWEEN WHILES.
LEWIS & WHITTY, Makers, Melbourne and Sydney. [?
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
Victorian Branch 50 Melbourne. Pitt 8 King Streets, SYDNEY.
FIRE ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc.
Lowest Ratk.B Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
’Phone No. 236 Central. SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
An instalment of Hugo’s “Les Mis4rables,”
sumptuous with incident and photographi-
cally perfect, conveyed its silent message to
the masses at West’s, Melbourne, last Satur-
day. A more ambitious production has never
done the journey at these same premises. In-
cidentally, the film gives a rare advt. to a
yarn that is rather passe literature at this
time of day. Another strip of Hugo’s story
will be sheeted this week, and, meantime,
West is making his programme affluent with
scenes in Colombo and episodes garnered by
the indefatigable Pathd reporters.
An embezzling parson’s fight with his
Better Self was depicted with burdensome
detail at Melbourne Majestic last week. The
name of the freak story was “The Minister’s
Temptation,” and soft-headed females wept
copiously when the pilot, after a momentous
struggle, chucked in the towel in the 28th
round. “The Sheriff’s Inheritance” was a
thrillsome story of Western love and theatri-
cal gun-play, and “A Court Intrigue” told of
a noble prince who tired of the swank of a
pretty court. So he went forth and married
a treasure who was beyond all price: The
writer has forgotten her name, so, in his own
mind, he calls her Miss Smith.
* * s= *
An ominous quietude marked the perform-
ance of “Faust” at the King’s last Saturday
night. A story that was dramatically im-
pressive when the world was younger, and
the idea of a hot steaming Gehenna still re-
tained some of its early horror for a Chris-
tian community, is a dry old chestnut these
times. It continues to serve as a suitable
plot for Gounod’s opera, but as a mere
vehicle for spoken conversation, with some
lurid scenic effects and rough chorus-singing
thrown in, it is a dull old thing. Common-
sense smiles where it ought to shudder. The
Devil in Red, who floods the stage with steam
from a supposititious cookshop below, excites
caustic questions re his absurdities. Why
does he walk around in such a sensational
outfit, advertising his identity by raising
flames from drinking vessels, and striking
the students of Nuremburg stiff? His super-
natural dallying with 16th century German
life is too glaringly anachronistic. He re-
mains the central figure, “throwing off” at
the other characters and dropping puerile in-
terjections re the damnation in store for
them —but the audience has no faith in him.
He gets all the “fat,” and inspires no awe.
In short, the story of Dr. Faust and his
rejuvenation and his girl and his lost soul
is a tedious joke. Why doesn’t he marry
the girl and shame the Devil, anyhow?
The Grand Spectacular pretensions of the
show are not sufficiently justified to make it
a good business proposition. Nor are the
three principal characters strikingly imper-
sonated. Jerrold Robertshaw’s Mephisto-
pheles offers crude suggestions of Henry Irv-
ing, but has no air of diabolical distinction,
no magnetism to speak of. Eric Maxon, as
Faust the lover, is uninteresting and noisy.
Miss Beatrice Terry is ordinary in her Mar-
gueritian innocence and conventional in her
Margueritian despair. Her delirium in the
dungeon cell reminds one of a skilled amateur
doing Ophelia’s mad scene, the orthodox
Ophelia, in some cases, being a more attrac-
tive charmer than Miss Terry. Leonard
Willey (Valentine), Eardley Turner, as the
silly old Doctor who suffers from thoughts
of giddiness. Harry Sweeney as a fully 1 -
matured Siebel, and Miss Alma Vaughan in
a somewhat new and reasonable conception
of Martha, are the least unimportant mem-
bers of the rest of the cast. They are all
booked to endure the gratuitous insults of
an out-of-place Satan for three weks.
* % *
At Melbourne Royal the last nights of
“Milestones,” not yet officially numbered, find
that pretty little stage play weakening in its
grip of popular esteem. The theatre is
rather too large for the Rhead family narra-
tive, and possibly Julius Knight and Miss
Irene Brown are thereby becoming confirmed
in their faults of over-accentuation in the
last act. Julius seems to dodder; also, the
two old ladies seem to dodder more than they
did a month ago. Dodder is a plant of swift
growth, and once it gets started it spreads
marvellously. And Miss Brown’s affected
utterances are surely taking longer pauses
in between. The deliberate artificiality of
her diction gets on one’s nerves. As the wife
of Preece, the Labor member, she will doubt-
less lose him the confidepce of the local
Caucus.
* # * *
The Count of Luxembourg, at Her Majes-
ty’s, Melbourne, continues to rob the nice,
clean, old Grand Duke Percy of his intended
bride. Andrews had a rather bad cold last
week, yet his warble sufficed to persuade
Florence Young to break off the divorce
which her old, unvenerable little guardian
had fixed for her. Besides, Celia Ghiloni
came as before, and captured him with a
matrimonial order from his cousin, the Czar,
and though he gammoned to fly affrighted
from fair Celia, the audience saw nothing to
be alarmed at. An absurd Fate has recently
condemned Miss Ghiloni to play scarecrow
parts. She gets over the difficulty by forget-
ting to disguise her full-blown beauty.
Melbourne Repertory Theatre last week
added “David Ballard” to its list of has-
beens. Chas. McEvoy’s play resembles some
other literary dramas in so far that the soulful
hero, who affects nobility of mind, appears a
vainglorious ass in comparison with a soul-
less, petty-minded person, who tells him ex-
actly what’s the matter with him. The
characters are exaggerated types of bour-
geois family life, and the acting magnified
the exaggerations. Stupidity was too stupid,
vulgarity too vulgar, shrewishness too shrew-
ful, sweet sympathy too saccharinely sympa-
thetic, senility too senile, and heroic hysteria
too hysterical. The serio-comedy story, being
mixed in the proportions of three grains of
human interest to 10 grains of improbability
and 20oz. of small talk, is hard to swallow
and impossible to digest. The intellect gets
no nutriment from it. Miss Dorothy Hescock,
Miss Jolliffe and Frank Keon made the best
use of their parts, whilst Gregan McMahon,
the wise man of the crowd, earned wonder-
ment for his careful make-up. Disguised in
a square-topped nose, a foreign complexion
and a lank, black mane, he looked like a
Bulgarian professor of the trombone, whereas
he was masquerading as a Cockney named
Darwin Snodge. After “David Ballard”
came Dyson’s Australian playlet introducing
a stereotyped bush bloke who lives in a hut
with an unaccountable town-bred wife, and
a melodrama villain who implores her to re-
turn to town and go upon the concert stage,
MELB.
REPERTORY
THEATRE.
“ DAVID
BALLARD .”
ROSE
SEATON
AS MRS.
BALLARD.
or otherwise misbehave herself. The girl,
quite forcibly played by pretty Miss Lilian
Prichard, talked in the over-strung strain of
many such a young matron in distress, with-
out offering any explanation of how she had
ever come to fall in love with her husband.
Also, the villain, expressed himself in the
language of seducers who are always wait-
ing their opportunity, and the husband’s lack
of conversation was quite consistent with his
hut. But the men were painfully inadequate
actors. The bloke impersonator secretly mur-
dered his rival. His rival should have re-
taliated.
** * *
“The Grafters” will graft for one more
week at the Bijou, and then the same co.
will set up “The Speculators” for the last
nights of the season.
** * *
Joseph McCabe starts to dazzle Melbourne
with his new series of illustrated lectures at
the Athenaeum Hall on Saturday (26th), and
will continue until further orders. Since his
first visit to Australia, the name and fame of
McCabe have been advertised hereabouts by
a large sale of his books. Carlyle Smythe is
reintroducing him as a notability who now
needs no introduction. The lecture for Sat-
urday is his “Story of Life on the Earth,”
and the matter of “Life in Other Worlds”
will be dealt with on Monday.
,** * *
A par. in last issue, dealing with the pre-
sent and future doing of Branscombe’s
“Dandies” in Melbourne, referred to those
live entertainers as “The Jesters.” This
paper has been severely reminded that the
Jesters are no more, and The Dandies reign
in their stead.
“Octopus”: Cleanliness is getting a fine
lead on godliness in the Holy City of Ade-
laide. One Schutt discovered the fact at a
cost of £lO when he sat, reclined or otherwise
extended himself on the bulk Sunday dinner
he was carting to a Norwood butchery. The
representatives of the Metropolitan County
Board came down upon him in the act, and,
despite his plea that the sun was hot, and
that he was easing the load on the horse’s
back, he was brought before an unsympa-
thetic Bench, which, being informed that
there were “particularly revolting circum-
stances in ' the case,” handed out the
aforesaid fine with the option of two months.
I have been living here for about 12 months.
During that time I have not once observed
the Health Inspector making an examination
of the butcher’s hands. I cannot swear that
the baker, the fishmonger or the vegetable
bloke never wash, but I will take my affi-
davit that all sorts of greasy blokes maul and
handle the public tucker all day long.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: W. J. Holloway, who
died in London recently, was an amateur in Sydney
before taking to the boards professionally. He was a
boilermaker by trade, and while boiling rivets by
day “fretted his little hour” at night on the stage of
a small theatre at Redfern. There he had, as co-
amateurs, Maggie Oliver (whose name was Walsh),
the sisters Maggie and Maria MclCeown, William
Stafford, Benson Lees and M. J. Conlon. The last
two were survivors of a strong amateur company
of an earlier time. Holloway made his first profes-
sional appearance in Melbourne uttder William
Hoskins.
“Harrison O”: “The Count of Luxembourg” has
suffered much more bv Anglicisation than did “The
Merry Widow.” Practically none of the piquancy
of the Viennese version remains. The most con-
sistently tiresome character —Brissard, a low-
comedian excrescence —was not in the original, and
the two songs with which he has been provided (and
which are not in the vocal score) are calculated to
make Lehar want to heave their perpetrator into
the blue Danube. And even the most unsophisticated
theatre patron feels vaguely that verisimilitude is
being trifled with, when a couple of pushites stroll
into the reception-hall of a Grand Ducal mansion
and go through an Apache dance.
“ DAVID
BALLARD."
Old Simon Ballard
(Jack Bowler) off
to dine.
Gregan McMahon
as Darwiu Snodge.
“J.F.H.”: (London): Eustace Gray and Charles
Gulliver, the bosses of the minstrel show at London
Palladium, offer a prize of £lOOO for “a sketch
suitable for a first-class minstrel entertainment, and
amusing alike to old and young”—which ought to
set a good few pens wagging. While waiting for the
masterpiece, Gray and Gulliver have secured the old-
time Agricultural Hall in North London, where the
Mohawk Minstrels reigned for nearly 30 years. They
intend to spend £lO,OOO on brushing it up and
making it once more the permanent home of burnt-
cork. The success of their gigantic combination at
the Palladium has led them to send out four touring
companies. To recruit these troupes they have started
a “nigger factory”—a school for turning out all
sorts of burnt-cork artists. There were 2000 appli-
cants in the first rush, weeded down to 400 after a
preliminary trial. Apparently it isn’t every white
man who can be a nigger.
Shakspeare is having a birthday on Monday, the
28th. The annual event will be celebrated in Mel-
bourne by the local society which bears his name
and helps to deepen the darkness of the most dimly-
lighted passages in his immortal works. The cele-
bration is to be a performance of “Twelfth Night.”
Needless to say, it is in aid of something. Shak.
long ago took his place among the religions of this
world, and a sectarian shivoo invariably has a fund
in sight. The Tercentary Memorial Fund is the good
cause in this case. The scene of the collection will
be the Masonic Hall, and the tickets cost 2s.
Dorothea Spinney, who comes hither from London
later in the year, should be an interesting show-
woman. Her specialities are Grecian and Irish Plat-
form Plays.
They have been discussing the origin of the word
"deadheads” in London. According to most of the
dictionaries, it is a modern Americanism, meaning
persons permitted, for various reasons, to sit in
theatres, ride in public conveyances or enjoy other
privileges of monetary value without being called
upon to pay. Some learned persons have, however,
challenged the Yankees’ patent, and show that the
word was in common use in pagan Rome more than
2000 years ago. Professional applauders were there
admitted free (as they still are in a few places, Aus-
tralia included), and to distinguish them from tie
paying public each was given a small ivory death s-
head as a pass-in check. Some of these objects are
now housed in the Museum at Naples.
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: Among old-time pilot
fish or advance agents, I remember first John Wilton
Hall, who had been a soldier in the 40th Regiment,
with service in India, and had some books to his
credit —“Scenes in a Soldier’s Life,” and six more
He was agent in America for Jenny Lind, and in
Australia for G. V. Brooke, Sir William and Lady
Don, Barry Sullivan, and others. Mr. Wilton died
under pecular circumstances at Tattersall’s Hotel,
Pitt-street, Sydney, 40-odd years ago. He had a
nephew who was agent for Lady Don in her widow-
hood. William Boeyasoe was agent in advance of
Catherine Hayes, Emma Stanley and others. Big
John Bryan came from California with Charles Dil-
lon. E. P. Hingston (brother of James Hingston,
the “Australian Abroad”) came as agent for Profes-
sor Anderson, the Wizard of the North ; he was also
agent for Artemus Ward. R. S. Smythe, the much-
travelled, went ahead of the Amelia Bailey Concert
Co. —and married Miss Bailey. James Kitts, who
never passed a cork in a gutter without raising his
hat to it, out of respect to his “burnt cork” days,
was agent for Robert Farquharson in his Australian
and Indian tours. Edward Totton came to Australia
with the New York Serenaders. Bill Bryant went in
advance of the Backus Minstrels. He was brother of
Neill Bryant, of Raynor’s Serenaders. John Wash-
ington Smith was the best-known circus agent in the
early days, and afterwards became a proprietor. De
Vivo engineered lima di Murska. Harry P. Lyons
first started on the roads as advance agent for That-
cher, “Poet Laureate of the Diggers.” He was also
with Blondin and half a hundred other people. When
Ravnor retired Totton was with the Edouin Family,
of 'which Mrs. G. B. W. Lewis is the sole survivor.
Charley Snyers was in advance of Chiarini’s great
circus on its first visit; W. Foley was agent for
Rowe’s Circus; James Simmonds looked after Jef-
ferson’s tour, and George Coppin was Charles Kean’s
business man.
“Harrison O.”: What a fine example of commercial
art “Milestones” is. Arnold Bennett, a frankly com-
mercial artist, who knows what the public wants,
knows, too, that the theatrical public is feminine;
and during his editorship of a lady’s sassiety journal,
he found out what most delights the feminine mind.
Therefore, he provided “Milestones.” First act:
one proposal, one fractured engagement; second act:
two proposals, one fractured engagement; third act:
two proposals. Then to make success doubly success-
ful, he furnished an extended review of the fashions
for 50 years —a sort of glorified procession of manne-
quins.
Died last week, Barton McGuckin, whose name
was a mighty power on a concert programme in
Britain when' his tenor voice was young and fresh.
He joined an opera co, and the strain of Lohengrin
and other heroes six times a week dr so, tore his
fine dramatic organ to ribbons. McGuckin as Lohen-
grin was a huge favorite in Dublin. There the
bhoys loved him as a brother and esteemed him as
an artist. Many tales were told of ■ yore of the
Dublin gallery’s interest in the popular tenor. As
for instance, when the sweet and solemn Wagnerian
strains proclaimed the approach of Lohengrin in his
wonderful, swan-drawn punt: “Ah!” cried a voice
from the gods, “Here comes good bhoy Barton, wid
his duck.” The voice of Barton was already ruined
when he came to Australia with Amy Sherwin aboiift
17 years ago. The lady’s concert tour being a failure
her star tenor soon dropped out of the co. and re-
turned to Britain on his own. Not long ago his
son visited Australia with “The Chocolate Soldier”
crowd. He was the tenor who played Alexius, and
bore the unusual front name of Noel.
“Snodge”: As chairman of a large and select indig-
nation meeting, I have been requested to send a
protest aginst Alf Vincent’s sketch of R. S. Smythe
in The Bulletin (10/4/’l3). It represents him as
a benevolent old gent, of the farmer and grazier
■type. There is nothing of the drowsy ancient agri-
culturist about Smythe. He looks the sort of old
showman that he is, and though his gait is aged, his
appearance would pass him for a man of not more
than 65.
It is solemnly reported that on the day when
Edgar, Governor of Pentridge Gaol (Mel-
bourne), was buried, the prisoners in B divi-
sion asked to be allowed to spend the after-
noon in their cells as a mark of respect, in-
stead of having their usual exercise, and
breath of fresh air, and gleam of sky. Now
a real collection of geniuses would have asked
to be flogged as a mark of respect, and then
to be put on bread and water. It is difficult
to imagine any more complete way of show-
ing profound respect than a voluntary flog-
ging all round.
BUSINESS-LIKE SANCITTT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Vicar of St. George's Church, New Glasgow.
Dear Sir, —We are writing to tell you that we were
visitors to your church this (Sunday) evening, and
want to tell you how deeply your sermon impressed
us. We are touring the world with a theatrical
troupe, known as Pollard’s Juvenile Opera Company.
We left our native land, Australia, six months ago,
etc., etc. We can truthfully say that during our stay
in this country we have never understood or ap-
preciated a sermon, etc., etc. As we have no oppor-
tunity of speaking to you personally, etc., etc. —
(Signed) Ethel Naylor, Daisy Wilson, Ivy Mooue,
Queenie Williams.
—Letter received by parson in Nova Scotia.
Noble and good and sweet! Mortals may err,
But hearts are right. Who was the publisher?
Did Nova Scotia’s reverend really pour
The Truth into each callow auditor?
Or did some shrewd press agent write that note
And teach it to the actorines by rote?
Once dead, the Church above our bones shall say:
“Dust unto dust” until the Judgment Day.
But when an Opera Company, good or bad,
Gets near a church, then both sides get an ad.
Nor “ashes unto ashes” is their woe;
The text of both of them is “Show to Show.”
N.S.W.
MARTIN LUTHER.
THE DUMB SHOW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The crops were good, likewise the fruits,
The cows had yielded wondrous well,
The bens were laying “like old boots”—
’Twas up to Dad to have a spell.
To town to have an Easter spree
With Mum and ’Enery hastened he.
They went first thing to witness one
Of those new moving picture-shows;
They saw the figures sit and run,
And give and take terrific blows;
And Dad, one hand behind his ear,
Did nothing else but gape and peer.
The star film, which displayed a score
Of murders in a noisome slum,
Went whirling through, and when ’twas o’er
Dad heaved a sigh, and said to Mum:
“I’m gettin’ dreadful deaf, all right,
I haven’t heard a word all night.”
VICTORIA.
S. SNELL.


ĥħ
THE ZAMBRENE (Registered)
WATERPROOF OVERCOAT-75/-
This illustration shows you the Zambrene registered
Overcoat-Rainproof, fashioned to fit with comfort, ease and
distinction. We are Sole Agents in New South Wales for
this World-renowned Waterproof Overcoat. Although Rain-
proof they are porous—no rubber but double yarn proof—-
which makes them suitable to be worn as an ordinary Rain
Coat, a slip-over or Motor Coat. The rain resistance is
obtained by treating the yarn by a special process both before
and after weaving, which prevents the rain from penetrating
the cloth, except by pressure or friction. The lining is also
similarly treated. They will also withstand dust, and afford
protection from wind and cold. Zambrene is full cut, with
long vent at back, and Storm Cuffs. In Grey with fine
Green Stripes, Dark Grey Mixture, fine Twill; fine Light
Brown Herringbone Mixture—with check wool lining. In
sizes 36 to 44 inches Breast Measure.
Price 75/- Also at 90/-
DAVID JONES PAY CARRIAGE.
DAVID JONES LTD.,
OPP. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
jh
h
ĥ
>/»
MOBILOIL
No one Lubricating Oil is best for all Cars. Gargoyle Mobiloil
gives you a grade for each type of motor. Use the grade
shown in our complete recommendations. Mailed on request.
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty. Ltd.
New Zealand Chambers, George St., Sydney.
SOCIETY
THE LAST SURVIVOR.
“ Waiter , bring me something else. There's a
fly in this milk.”
“ Couldn't possibly be, sir. J took ’em all out
most carefully before I brought it in."
When, in a recent Sydney Quarter Ses-
sions case, the jury said “Not guilty,”
’S’onor mentioned that he was _ sorry : “I
am very sorry to hear your verdict, and do
not know how you have arrived at it.” But
an exceptional sort of foreman replied: _ “It
is a unanimous verdict, and it was arrived
at according to our consciences”; and then
’S’onor was probably sorry he had men-
.tioned that he was sorry.
“Jeames” flings aside his Plush Coat and
writes of an Eccentric Family:—
What a genius the Queensberry family possesses
for the acquisition of free advertisement! All
London is once more talking about Lord Alfred
Douglas, just as it did 20 years ago. Since those
stirring days he has provided enough scandal, of
different sorts, to fill a three-volume novel. His
brother, the present Marquess, was the first English-
man to write to the papers and mention that in his
walks abroad he was invariably armed, and that any
motorist who frightened, damaged or otherwise in-
convenienced his children, would be shot dead. Another
brother shot an acquaintance in America. The jury
acquitted him on the grounds that deceased had
offered undue attention to the marksman’s wife; or
was better dead ; or wore impossible clothes, or some-
thing equally trans-Atlantic of the sort. The old
Marquess, their father, was rarely out of the public
eye. He used to get there by means of street fights;
rows with waiters, hotel proprietors, etc. ; accusa-
tions of being drunk and disorderly, and bets that he
would do things, such as dive off bridges, drop out
of balloons, and so on, which generally ended in his
being half-killed.
I was in service for some years at the Raleigh,
which was the old Marquess’s favorite club at the
time. Crowds used to gather in Regent-street to see
him go in and out. He was an infernal old nuisance
in the club, owing to his habit of speaking aloud
every word of every letter that he wrote. As he was
continually writing letters, mostly of an abusive
character, he had the smoking-room pretty much to
himself. The members stood him because he was the
nearest thing to a duke that they had in the place.
“Old Q.,” the most famous or notorious (take it
how you will) character that this family has evolved,
was, of course, the master of all of them at attract-
ing public attention. Even in his latter days, when
the faculty for doing extraordinary things had long
deserted him, he needed but to take his seat in the
bow window at White’s, and the traffic of St.
James-street was automatically held up by a wor-
shipping populace.
Like every other member of his line, Lord Alfred
likes a fight better than any pastime you can men-
tion. He fought his own father in Piccadilly for
some 15 minutes during the height of the Oscar
Wilde scandal. As editor of the Academy he
fought practically the entire literary world of Lon-
don, and ended his association with the astounded
old paper by fighting one of the most strenuous libel
actions on record. In the dark days when Oscar
Wilde was waiting in London for the blow to fall
which his own senseless obstinacy had rendered in-
evitable ; when the wretched genius was skulking
from lodging to lodging, and being ejected with
loathing so soon as the halfpenny papers discovered
his- whereabouts and screamed the news to the world,
—in that ghastly period Lord Alfred stuck to Wilde
and fought everyone. I have been told by eye-wit-
nesses that when he went into one of the rooms at
White’s, the members would rise in a body and
leave, as some slight token of their disapproval of
his ways.
His present libel suit is merely a manifestation
of the family tendency. It can’t possibly do his
reputation any good in a country like England,
which has an irremovable habit of deciding such
questions on side-issues. Thus it will not matter
in the present action, if he shows that he acted like
a father and a mother to Wilde, so long as the other
side is able to cast sufficient irrelevant mud at him
to scandalise the jury. However, he will certainly
achieve that which his soul most loves —namely, the
joy of making things unpleasant for a large number
of his multitudinous enemies.
The other day the foolish Melbourne
Argus wasted a tubful of sympathy on an
alleged “poor and penniless” prohibited im-
migrant, and then found that its friend had
turned dog on it; and there is a lot of turn-
ing in a dog, seeing that it revolves three
tims before it lies down. The immigrant was
one Alexander Killerman, and he was dis-
covered in a vagrant state in Newcastle
(N.S.W.) last November. He then assured
the law that he was “too lazy to work, and
the country would have to keep him,” where-
upon the law “tested” him unsuccessfully,
and finally packed him off to Hongkong. The
police of that city, however, seem to have
known something; also their laws are appar-
ently more stringent and effective than ours.
They straightly declined to accept Killer-
man, and ordered his immediate return.
Back he trotted lazily on the seas,
but he again failed to get employment, and
the Melbourne police ran him in and pre-
sented him to a beak with a view to having
him deported some more. Although allegedly
penniless, he was represented by a Gentleman
One, who obtained a remand so that the
“poor alien” might present his case properly.
But all the lawyer could say when the case
was again called was that his client wanted
to be deported, whether he was prohibited
or not; and a promising case of “discourag-
ing immigration” fell to pieces. Whoever
induced him to come to Australia may have
been a friend to Killerman, but he certainly
was not to the Commonwealth. Killerman
has been of no earthly use here to man or
dog, and it has cost a tidy sum to get him
away. Also, he indirectly caused a respect-
able journal to make a fool of itself, though
that is nothing out of the way.
The average municipal Bumble is the
worst offender at Hempire Day shivoos, the
most furious flag-flapper, and the most atro-
cious and ungrammatical lip-loyalist, yet
when he gets a chance to serve or help along
his particular portion of the blessed empire
—the part in which he gets his living—he
generally turns it down. Thus Northcote
(Vic.) council wanted 800 chairs for its new
town hall, and, instead of calling tenders,
calmly assured itself that they “couldn’t be
made in Australia,” and was about to buy an
imported line, when some strenuous protests
were handed in. Fancy Australians, elected
to a public position by Australians, having
the consummate impudence to say that their
own people don’t know enough to knock
together the four-legged contraption you sit
upon !
It appeared in the course of evidence in a
Sydney divorce suit last week that the peti-
tioner had been moved, before marriage, to
own to her prospective spouse that she had
done a certain amount of “time.” Many an
admirer would have been dismayed. -Mus
one was delighted. “Lena, my love, he
answered. “I may now tell you frankly
that I was transported to this country tor
murder.” And so, with the glad knowledge
that there was at least one insoluble bond
between them, the lovers strode bravely forth
along the flower-strewn path of matrimony.
A LEFT-HANDED COMPLTMENT.
COUNTRY AUNT: “ How do you like my loquat jam?”
CITY MISS: “I think it is just lovely. You would never know it was made of loquats,
would you?"
“Gilbert Claire”: I wish that yarn of
“Gil” (B. 3/4/’l3) was true about the lady
on Glenelg (S.A.) beach emulating La Milo
in all the skinfulness of nature. “Gil” says
that the girl was in a dressing-shed covered
with nothing but the shadow of an adjacent
Wowser. I use his own lie: “These amazing
edifices (bathing sheds) are open on all
sides, and privacy is a delusion and a snare.”
Now, I know the sheds well, and I declare
and affirm that they are squares of galvan-
ised iron reaching neck-high with an open
space of 15in. at the ankle end. Therefore,
if the “staid old gentleman with side-whisk-
ers and a prayer-book” declared to “Gil” that
the local La Milo had a boshter figure, he
must have been peeping through a crack in
the iron cubicle. And as that is obviously
impossible, I hereby cast his aspersion to the
four winds.
* * * *
“Y.Z.” : The other day a little Melbourne
girl of six or seven was found stowed away
on an oeean-going boat at the Port pier.
She is the third small Australian girl of
whom I have knowledge who has attempted
to depart this land in the same adventurous
spirit. These enterprising damsels in pin-
nies typify the Australian girl, who, I be-
lieve, is the most migratory female on the
face of the earth. I have not yet met a
daughter of the soil who was not afflicted
with a nagging wanderlust, and whose mind
was not set upon some eventual flight by sea
to far lands. Quite a crowd of girls of my
acquaintance have taken wing, inspired by
nothing but the insatiable yearning to shift,
and I know three sets of sisters who, when
they are not taking steam to America, In-
dia or England, are working hard and saving
close, with the intention of sliding the great
waters in the near future. All the other
girls who don’t go, don’t because they can’t,
and breathe daily longings for voyages of
adventure and discovery. It has been alleged
against the Australian male that he is indis-
posed to shift himself and get out into the
world and about it. This isn’t true, but not
even the most dunder-headed, sand-blighted
critic could make the same charge against
the Australian girl, who is a passionate pil-
grim at heart —a true daughter of the noma-
dic tribes that, with blueys up, unsettled
this country a few years ago.
“Adelaide”: If George Iloskin, supposed
to be “a fisherman, somewhere on the river
Murray,” is listening, he may be glad to hear
that one Peter Jackson, of Moorook tells
the Adelaide dailies (16/4/T3) how he
(P.J.) has private information from Eng-
land that he (G.H.) stands to get “the whole
of the estate and fortune of the great Bowden
family,” the last of them having just died
If the said fortune turns out to be anythin?
over £100,000,000 sterling, G.H. cannot, as
an honorable fish gentleman on the Murray
do less than shout butchers for P.J., and
The Bulletin — and me.
FAR , FAR AWAY.
“Oh don’t , Mr. Merino! How dare you! It
you kiss me I’ll call father!”
"Why, goodness me, where is he?”
“ Travelling in Europe.”
EUGENICS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
An amendment to the present marriage law was
proposed by Councillor J. J. Brokenshire, who moved
to the effect that a new clause be introduced in the
Health Act making it compulsory for persons desirous
of entering into matrimony to produce a certificate of
good health. Councillor W. H. Treganowan seconded
the resolution, and it was unanimously agreed to.
—From Melb. Board of Health report.
The lover splendid to behold,
With flashing eye and turn for rhyme,
Who wants the damsel good as gold,
Must drop those attitudes sublime
Of heroes of the olden time.
The modern maiden will be won
On scientific lines or none.
The day of pomp and skite is gone,
Of roaring, rant, and make believe.
One time the knight in armor shone
To please his Lady Genevieve.
But, sir, to win to-morrow’s Eve,
You’ll have to stand a sterner test,
And prove your kidneys are the best.
The cant about a loving heart
Is simply void of common-sense.
Don Juan soon must prove that part
Of him is not diseased—immense.
The silly, amorous pretence
Of its great tenderness won’t do
If aneurism stops a flue.
No prattle of his soul will serve
The youth whose liver isn’t fit;
And all a Casanova’s verve
Won’t go with any girl of wit,
Who’s up to date, and knows a bit.
She’ll turn him down, despite his zest,
If it is shown he can’t digest.
No more will Willie seek her dad,
With knocking knees, consent to get.
But to a doctor grim the lad
Must bare his torso lean, and sweat
While M.D. mentions with regret:
“Not yours the matrimonial field
Until your lung’s half-soled and healed.”
Certificates will be denied
To sturdy but dull-witted swains
In whom the doctors have espied
A melancholy lack of brains.
What chance for Hymen’s gilded chains
When brainless men can’t wed and don’t,
And men with brains, as usual, won’t ?
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.
THE WIND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The wind,” said the child, “is an echo that calls—
Calls in the cave where the seahorse lies,
Something that laughs in the waves’ green walls,
Casting the foam-spray like beads on the skies”...
“The wind,” said the woman, “the warm, warm
wind,
Breaking the barriers of bloom away,
From a still chamber lifting the blind,
And where pale blossoms dreamily sway,
Finding the lost kiss one frail bud encloses. . ..
The wind,” sighed the woman, “is full of dead
roses.”....
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


EVERY DAY
more people are proving that
is the best washing preparation for
blankets, flannels, woollens and dainty
fabrics. Lux .is scientific in its methods.
Lux coaxes pather than forces the dirt
from the clothes. Lux shortens the
work at the washtub —lengthens the
life of the clothes.
WON’T
SHRINK
WOOLLENS.
r
V A
.7iil W t '
LEVER BROTHERS
LIMITED. SYDNEY/
The cove that chased the water-cart man to in-
form him that “it was leaking” {vide B. 6/3/’l3),
was not far different from the sower of the sods
who followed up his potato-cart with a wheelbarrow
in which to catch the spuds that “leaked” out of
the faulty bags in which they had been vainly en-
closed. Get good spud sacks, Mr. Farmer, such as
will stand any amount of strain and not spill the
contents The best place to send to for sound spud
sacks is Smith’s, the Sydney Sack Specialists. Grab
your pen now and write for quotations. We’ve got
our specks on ready to read your request. T. Smith
and Co., Ltd., Sack Specialists, Sussex Street,
Sydney.*
Wild’s Hairdressing Rooms, 30 Upstairs,
Sydney Arcade, George and King Streets, Sydney, is:
the proper place to go if you want the best of atten-
tion. Electric head and face rnassage done in the
latest American style. Hours of business: 8.30 to
6.30 ; Saturday close at 1 o’clock.*
THE REVERSIBLE ALL-WOOL
TRAVELLING ROG 2 51-
For the comfort of the traveller a good rug is essential on either
the short or long journey.
The rug featured here is a good, warm woollen quality of
British make, and is produced in reversible check patterns.
The colors are : Light and Dark Drey, and Greens, Reds and
Brown mixtures. The ends are fringed.
Size : sSin. x 72in.
PRICE 25/*= Postage extra.
Other Rugs 16/6 to 65/-
NEW CATALOGUE ON REQUEST.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.,
Men’s
Outfitters,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wl
This tragedy of Collins-street (Melb.) on
a recent morning illustrates one reason why
some people don’t rush to assist vii tue in dis-
tress, to capture runaway thieves, to seize
bursting boilers, or that sort of thing. A
well-known city man, who might conceiv-
ably join a combine, but would scorn to pick
a pocket, was hurrying to his lunch,
when, in the crush, his umbrella handle
caught the strap of a woman’s handbag and
carried the contraption away. Not noticing
it, he hastened on, but was speedily brought
up by a heavy shoulder-grip and tlie words,
“I’ve got you this time. Come to the corner
and I’ll give you in charge.” As soon as
he realised the position he asked whose bag
it was. “That lady’s over there. I saw
you grab it. Come on now.” Most men
would have gone along quietly and explained,
but this citizen had no time for that. He
was in haste to float a company or some-
thing. So he simply whirled his wild cat
in the air and smote his captor with it, and
the captor fell as if Fink's Buildings had
struck him. Then the man of haste restored
the bag with profound apologies, and fled
along to his noon sausage. As for the dazed
philanthropist, who had been smitten by the
wild cat and Fink’s Buildings, he gathered
himself up out of the dust and nobody even
thanked him.
* * * *
A slander-action, man v. woman, is gen-
erally uphill work, but at Renmark (the
S.A. irrigation settlement on the Murray,
with a big British element in its population)
“Bill” Wyllie has got damages against Mrs.
W. J. Moffat, a rich neighbor. Last Sep-
tember, Morres, Wyllie’s friend, who shared
a house with him. was found dead in bed.
with a revolver in his hand. It seemed such
a clear case of suicide that a local J.P. un-
wisely decided not to have an inquest. Then
gossip began, and Wyllie was probably wise
in going for one of the most prominent resi-
dents. The lady claimed that she had only
said what everyone else was saying—that
there should have been an inquest; but in
the witness box she admitted saying that
“if an angel came from Heaven” she would
not believe that Morres shot himself. Human
nature seems to be much the same in the
country mansion as in the city backyard;
but a lawsuit is a much more complete way
of clearing one’s character than throwing a
dead cat over the fence. Verdict for £lOO
damages.
AN AFFAIR OF THE HEART.
This peculiarity of development is not as rare as
is popularly believed. I have met three persons
within seven years whose hearts were actually on the
wrong side of their bodies—that is, on the right
side. —Melbourne doctor.
"Nay, take me to thy heart, Henri, to thy
very heart," whispered the sweet, wan
woman in an ecstasy of emotion.
Tis well, Griselda ,” he breathed in low,
intense tones. “ The embrace is anatomi-
cally correct. Remember ny cardiacal dis-
placement.”
TOO MANY DISEASES.
INSURANCE DOCTOR (pilling in proposal):
"Ahem! Have you ever had any fevers?
Ever had scarlet fever, hectic, rheumatic,
gastric, typhoid, typhus or yellow fever?”
MR. O’HARA: “ Eh? Phwat do yez think Oi
am? Wan of thim patint medicine adver-
tisements?"
“Fair Dinkum”: There is
one thing that won’t do Aus-
tralia any harm when the im-
migrant gets the hang of things.
He’s got plenty of pluck. I’ve
had a good deal of experience of
him or I wouldn’t say so. The
time (not long ago) when the
steamer Narrung was getting
plain and striped hell punched
out of her in the Bay of Biscay
we had charge of 248 of him
and her on their way to the
Bunny South. The forward
third of the ship resembled a
sardine tin after four elephants
had fallen on it simultaneously,
and the masts were not as tall
as the waves that called for
Chum and the rest of us. Not
one person on the ship expected
to see the morrow’s beer and
cheese, but down on the main
deck the only sign that anybody
was really afraid came from
two Hebraic ladies. They de-
veloped hysterics, and, although
there was considerable excuse
for them, Chummy was openly
annoyed at such weakness. Yet
this must not be set down to
the discredit of the Race in
general, for the folk of the
Hebrewery usually face an
emergency well. Many years
ago a steamer was doing what
looked like its ultimate perish
between Melbourne and Sydney.
Its cargo included a consign-
ment of Isaac Moses returning
from the Cup, part of a church
conference, and the usual mis-
cellany. And when it looked
as if it was all up, there was
something heroic in the way
Moses, metaphorically speaking, put his
bag on and laid himself very fair odds that
he would be dead before morning.
The pious horror often beats the secular
horror by a nose, and the religious crank
frequently sees bigger spiders wandering over
the surface of the Book of Acts than the beer
crank sees wandering over the front of the
hotel. As a case in point, a farmer’s wife
at Greta, near Wangaratta (Vic.), recently
got the Beast of Revelation on her mind —-
she had had the Beast several times before,
but this time it was worse than usual, and
the number of it was 666 —so she decided to
end everything. She wrote a miserable letter
about her miss-spent life, which was probably
only disfigured with too much hard work and
too much cow struggle. Then she made up
the fire one night when her husband was out,
took poison, tied her feet together, poured
kerosene over herself, crawled into the fire-
place, and sort of blazed up. According to
the signs she didn’t move once after she got
into the fireplace—just lay still and let
things drift. There was no fire insurance
on her. It was a miserable end for a com-
paratively young woman, and the Beast of
Revelation, whose number is alleged to be
666, has a heap to answer for. This writer
wouldn’t be that Beast for a pile of money.
It must be said for the late Mrs. Carlyon
that she was thorough in her methods. The
only person who got much ahead of her for
comprehensiveness was a certain villain of
old-time fiction, of whom it was said that
he swallowed a phial of strychnine, cut his
throat, fired a pistol at his head, and with a
howl of fury cast himself into the foaming
torrent. The writer thoughtfully added:
“But his time had not yet come.” Perhaps
he was saved by the fact that his trouble
wasn’t religious derangement.
From “Gravel
Crusher,” showing
how great generals
and field-marshals
and even admirals
disagree:—
In spite of “Old
Soldier” (B. 3/4/T3),
the bell tent is in-
finitely superior to the
rectangular variety.
Ample proof of their
ability to keep out
wet and withstand
storms was given at
the late Easter camp
o f 5000 trainees a t
Heidelberg (V i c.).
There, after eight days
of rain and gales, not
a single bell-tent was
blown down or flooded
(the men had trenched
their tents with the
tools issued to them).
On the other hand,
several of the large
rectangular ones (offi-
cers and sergeants’
mess) suffered severe-
ly. That a case of
diphtheria should
occur at the Duntroon
camp is not an argu-
ment in favor of bar-
racks. In the Crimea it
was found that tents
were healthier than
huts, and the mortal,
ity from disease be-
came less when huts
were done away with.
Armies never encamp
now in real war, says
“Old Soldier.” If he
reads Field Service
Regulations, Part 1.,
the auth o r i t ative
manual for the Brit-
ish army on real war,
he will find this:
“Tents are used i n
standing or rest camps, and in the field in excep-
tional cases, or when the weather is severe; but
troops are billeted in the houses of the in-
habitants of the district as much as possible
while the covering force (outposts) bivouac.”
Summing-up, bell-tents are superior to rectangular in
that (1) they have a greater holding capacity, (2)
they are easier pitched and easier struck; (3) they
require less transport; (4) and their shape makes
them more weather resisting. Finally, compar-
ing them with barracks, they have the large virtue
of being cheaper and the supreme virtue of being
healthier.
* * * *
“Stargazer”: I notice two effects of the
American invasion. (With Luny Park,
“The Grafters” Co., and two American cir-
cuses on the job, we certainly are enjoying
an American invasion in Melbourne.) The
most striking effect is the gum habit. To
chew gum it is not sufficient to
collect the commodity inside your
face and bite it. The American
slouch goes with it, also the Amer-
ican dead-shoteye, and a somewhat
pugnacious tilt of the jaw. The
habit attacks a numerous class,
and is spreading rapidly, respect-
ing neither sex nor age. The vic-
tim in the worst stages looks like
something with a locomotor ataxia
in the face, peering through the
pickets of a wild asylum. The
other effect is the American “get.”
It is a peculiar method of propel-
ling yourself about town. You
don’t really walk; you run after
yourself and push yourself along,
or you arrest yourself and drag
yourself along without bail or
the option. And if a gum hump in your left
cheek goes with the performance you’re a
“genoowine Amurken gell,” and “some stuff,”
surely.
* * * *
Melbourne is apparently in danger of a
visitation from a two-edged sword, if the
statement of a Fitzroy woman is correct.
She recently called at the Town Hall, and
desired a word with Gaud Mayor IJennessy,
saying she was the only prophetess in the
world, and that he was to hear her message
and acknowledge her, failing which
affliction would fall on the city like
two dozen bad eggs. The messenger
who communed with the lady, and ultimately
—his Worship being very much engaged—-
chased her off the premises, learnt that she
had been born a prophetess, and had many
times tried unsuccessfully to deliver import-
ant messages, but, so far, nobody seems to
have heeded her; so her forecasts, however
correct, have been wasted. She said she had
called on Chapman, of the Chapzander firm,
no less than six times, without enjoying a
glimpse at his shining countenance. The
last time she called on him she was assured
that he was too ill to see anyone—but he
wasn’t too ill to indulge in a hearty lunch.
That satisfied her about Chapman, and
thereafter she suppressed all messages for
him, and left him to his fate, which will
doubtless be horrible. As the message she
wanted to deliver to Hennessy was one that
would settle the Balkan war instantane-
ously, and as that frayed unpleasantness is
already apparently about ended, it is obvi-
ous that the lady was not as previous as a
prophetess should be. And as Mayor Hen-
nessy isn’t a Bulgarian, he didn’t see what
standing he had in the matter.
Without waiting to learn the finish of the
case of Thomas Jones Cilia in the Criminal
Court, the blonde wife and brunette mother-
in-law of that foolish Chinaman got away
from Melbourne last week in the Persic, with
London in view. Mrs. Chia, who has re-
sumed her spinster name of Unie Russell,
takes introductions to some London mana-
gers, and hopes to start again as a profes-
sional actress as soon as she has put all the
space possible between herself and her twin-
soul of yestermonth. They were married in
January, and parted early in March, when
a policeman took Chia on a charge of shoot-
ing at the Chinese Consul-General. All cor-
respondence ceased from that time. News of
Chia’s arrest in town was the signal for his
bride to return home with mother from her
rooms at Sandringham House, after the
ladies had collected all their curios and other
personal effects. The husband’s name was
Mud from the moment of his downfall. The
Russell family left him. Some of the Mel-
bourne Chinese raised a little money to pay
a lawyer and brief a barrister for their com-
patriot. His bounding spirit is badly broken
in several places. Chia the Deserted is said
to be the most crushed and 'sorrowful China-
man that ever was, though he’ still hangs on
to the hope of one day recovering the lost
endearments of his White Queen.
VIRTUE TRIUMPHANT.
THE DRESS: “But my dear Maisie, merely are
a matter of maidenly modes ”
THE C OSTUME: “You talk modesty, indeed!"
Why, I'm sure NO man ever saw ME.
enter the water with uncovered limbs, [?]
there!”
Elizabeth Maud Cronk and John Cftojafe:
were petitioner and respondent in a, Sydney
divorce suit last week before Justice- Gloirdon.
The Judge found that John Cronk was not
cronk, as alleged, but reserved his; decision,
on the question of cruelty.
DUTY—NEVER BUSINESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Czar has sanctioned a tour of Australia- By>
M. Volinin and Mdlle. Schmolz, of the Imperial!
Opera House, St. Petersburg. It was not a question
of money, for Madame Adeline Genee is a rich:
woman, and exceptionally high and tempting terms;
were offered by Mr. J. C. Williamson.”
-—The press agent on the cable.
Press agents, splendid, simple, noble, good,
Toil but for glory, be it understood !
Just as bees work for work’s sweet sake —not honey,
So Adeline and co. don’t dance for money.
“The Firm” imports them one and all for fame,
M’sieu Volinin, Mamzelle What s-her-name
And they’d be dashed before they’d come so far
For mere spondulix—’tis to please the Czar!
Majesty, in your boiler-plated cell—
Bethink thee how these dancers love thee well!
How the Press Agent and danseuse combine
To pour upon thee Flattery’s gracious wine.
Czars chance assassination for its fun;
Star dancers dance to prove it can be done;
Press agents live as careless as the coney;
And all do work for love and not for money.
N.S.W.
K. B.


, (AV r KoflJi«s
jtfzjT under |>Wr«l«N,
evan -$e j N
>‘l don’t regard it as an evii,” said
Mr. Murray, smoking reflectively.
•Tobacco, that Is. not cigarettes. Mr.
Spurgeon used to say. 1 «f n .?' no „ a
cigar to the glory of God.' "—“Age.
JEVcef-poA
The MpnopolicT:-
0- ! /
Soy'. — A,<^£p w^tTor » 'to see yo4*,sir.
" '. ve you, sir ? How
»kv dxre you interi'ubl" \+~ dcvoitorK.
AfA
KM
Dr >
“\
J/Apj
A\\ \ » -
\ \ \ /
\ \ \ Klt l
A % 'f>V : \ V -v y y
\ 53 W%. o/A \ A.
VAV?<V« /A 3
m
WvvvvyW A
v viitk cy^
Mr Murray, the Acting Premier, has
written to. Mr. T. O’Callaghan, «ho re-
cently retired front the position of Chief
Commissioner of Police, thanking hint
on behalf of the Government for his
services to the State.—News item.
jV||tyst£T P\\J\'Y\y
lasr 'tribate oj
respect'
Mr. O'Malley, before concluding his
address, mentioned that this was the last
time he would run for politics. He vis
55 years of age, and at the end of this new
Parliament would be 58. After that lie
would retire, and probably see the world.
—News item.
K»"K —1«
sWI W f s^ my l>rolfUr
A‘a^* 7^»c>v. — j3<*l VfAit -
The Federal Government has come to they
conclusion that there is no better way of
advertising the Commonwealth than by show-
ing the country as It really is. It has accord-
ingly decided to appoint a photographer and
cinematograph operator, who must travel
continuously throughout the Commonwealth,
to take suitable pictures of rural life and
industry.—‘'Age:. ”
C ov crmryerfi' Operator!— ’ y oU *
Kindly bsK'Vfe C«v/ to looK bU^W",
VICTORIAN AND OTHER POLITICS.


&
If you are
“Run Down”
TAKE
ANGIER#MULSION
Of Chemists, 1/3, 2/9 and 4 f B.
Angier’s Emission promotes appetite, soothes and strengthens the
organs of digestion, overcomes nervous depression and builds up strength.
It is invaluable as a recuperative after illness and in all “rundown”
couditions and wasting diseases. For over twenty years Angier’s Emulsion
has been prescribed by the medical profession and used in the hospitals;
it is the most perfect and most palatable of all emulsions.
2)
Send for Free Sample ; enclose 4d. postage and mention this paper.
ANGIER CHEMICAL. CO., 7 Barrack Straet, Sydney, N.S.W.
The World’s Best.
PAIMLER
MOTOR LORRY.
•Silent Knight Engine.
Shaft Drive No Chains.
h
SUNSHINE
Motor Cars P’t’y,
Melbourne.
Hugh V. McKay, Sydney & Adelaide,
} Sole
| Agents.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Mimosa”: Somebody was talking about
“mewils.” Which reminds me. What arrangements
is Australia making for transport in anticipation of
invasion by an enemy ? The lorries that are used
during “manoeuvres” will be of no use; in fact, they
would be worse than that. What we want are light,
strong waggons, after the style of the Outback
station waggonette, and, if possible, mules to draw
them. To what extent, if any, is the Defence De-
partment encouraging mule-breeding? Also, what
is the Department doing to induce the Outbackers
to adapt a type of general utility waggonette that,
while serving its purpose on the stations and selec-
tions, would be invaluable to the nation as trans-
port vehicles? Nothing, as far as I know. If any-
body knows more than nothing let him come forth
and tell something to the multitude.
SHIRE SECRETARY ( to councillor who has dined “not wisely," etc.):
“Do you approve of reducing the wages of the maintenance men?"
COUNCILLOR: " Mosht ’cidedly not —make ’im marry the gal!"
“Ex-Carrier” : Never knew the moon to do
worse than this to a man. Was camped with a
carrier mate at Tabulama, on the Clarence (N.S.W.),
under a full moon. We were both beneath tar-
paulin shelters, but my mate slept with his head in
the bright glare of Providence’s turnip-lantern,
Next morning he turned out completely disfigured,
his eyes and mouth being twisted round to the left
side of his head, the lips and face swollen and
speech made very difficult. But there was no blind-
ness, and after a few days the moon-struck counten-
ance relaxed to normal. It looked much better that
wav, taking it all round.
“Mataram” . If a staff correspondent of
the North Queensland Register speaks the truth,
then I’m blanked. He relates that a black boy,
diving recently off York Island (Up North), was
attacked by a shark and grabbed by the head, of all
places in the world. The boy, as he afterwards ri
lated in the hospital, “pushed hard,” and got clem
with an injury to his throat and a gnawed ear.
Photographs of the ear and other damages were for-
warded to the Register as a guarantee of good faith
and, if the bona fides be allowed, I reckon this to be
the record escape from a sea tiger.
“Eryander”: So the suckling-centipede
absurdity has turned up again (B. 3/4/’l3). With-
out making merry over the zoologically grotesque
idea of supposing a myriapod to be a mammal, I
may point out that this strange notion is probably
due to the fact that the young of the viviparous
Chilopoda (the Order which includes the Scolopen-
dree or centipedes) are able to adhere mechanically
to the under surface of the mother’s body, and are
thus carrried about for a considerable time after
birth. I have several times been challenged to “be-
lieve the evidence of my own eyes” as regards the
supposed suckling, but have always been able to
demonstrate that there was nothing mammary in the
matter, and that the young “cents” were merely
using poor old mother as tram accommodation.
* * » »
The water hyacinth on the northern
rivers of N.S.W. threatens to be a bigger floating
curse than the landed prickly pear. The hyacinth is
now down as far as Coraki, on the Richmond, and
each trip of the steam punt threatens to be its last.
Higher up the river navigation has ceased. Vessels
have been abandoned in places because the hyacinth
octopus got them and held them fast. By a whirly
gyration of the law, it is illegal for the shire coun-
cils to spend their revenues in dealing with the
weed, and any councillor who votes to do so is
liable to be proceeded against. Meanwhile, the Gov-
ernment is being asked to rush a Hyacinth Bill
through Parliament, but in the precarious state of
its tenure the Government isn’t making any pro-
mises to rush anything. It isn’t so very long ago
that the pretty flowers of the river devil were sold in
Sydney at 3d. each. Now their value is about
3,000,000 years solitary confinement in Tophet with
out the option.
“Paroa” : Henare and Wiremu, the brown
men of Maoriland, gathered in considerable force at
Te Arai, near Gisborne, the other day, and discussed
the policy of Herries, Minister for Native Affairs,
with the aid of many bullocks, poalcas, taiwa and
kumera. For the Maori has a proverb that “talking
on an empty stomach is like sleep on a bed of
oysters,” or words to that effect. It seems that
Herries would have his work cut out to wash the
brown stain off the skin of the Maori in the eye of
the Law. This meeting, representative of all the
tribes in Maoriland, cheerfully asserted that all his
proposals for reform were so much humbug, and that
the colored inhabitant had no inclination to be
Europeanised, but wished for nothing better than to
go on the mat and watch the Pakeha toiling in the
heat of the sun that he might earn enough money
to pay the just rents which accrued to the Maori
as owners of the land. And so the removal of
Taihoa Timi Kara from office is not likely to benefit
either Maori or Pakeha for the present. In fact,
the longer the Maori sits on his mat and the more
valuable his lands become through Pakeha industry,
so much the more will he be tempted to stay there.
Henare has an instinctive distrust of people who talk
about doing things. The East Coast Maori is well
off, and he knows it.
“K. 0.”: Perch abound in the large storage
dam belonging to the Chillagoe Co., on the Ether-
idge goldfields (N.Q.). Although most of them are
small, some of them go up to lib. ; but as food
they are left severely alone, owing to a dread of
hydatids, a recent operation on a human stomach
having disclosed a living, rolling mass of the dreaded
worm. Saw a beautiful looking perch (fib.) cleaned
and placed in salt and water. Next morning I hur-
riedly burned the accumulation. I was going to ask
you if the disease was purely local, but it doesn’t
matter. As far as I’m concerned perch is perman-
ently off.
“Ned McNichol”: On Bullarora run I
came across some old trap-yards of many years’
standing and in good preservation. The bleaching
(and bleached) bones of the wild horses, from the
gate for a mile along the wings of the yard, give
some grim evidence. The brumbies were yarded by
stratagem and hard riding ; the gate was then thrown
open, and a half-cooked devil, armed with a shear-
blade on a stick, stabbed them in the flank as they
galloped out, and disembowelled them—this to avoid
having a horse’s corpse oh the premises, and, in-
cidentally, a horrid smell about the yard. I’d like to
see Fred Brown make it hot for The Horse Mur-
derer in Tophet.
USQUEBAUGH.
It has been decided in a British Court that what is known as whisky has no right to the name.
MACPHERSON: “Do ye see, Donal , they're wantin' to make oot that what we’ve bin drinkin'
all this time isna whusky at a', and niver was whusky.”
MCTAVISH: “ Well, mon, all I ken say is, its a gra-a-nd substitute."
“Mallarapoonie’s” report: To “11.0.’5”
statement (B. 13/3/T3) that explosions don’t hap-
pen gradually, I merely remark, “Nonsense!” Dyna-
mite is much more tardy in its action than either
gelignite or nitro-gelatine, while either, in their
turn, are quite a heap more dilatory in getting off
the mark than pure nitro-glycerine. Though nitro-
gelatine is among the swiftest and most effective of
explosives, it is really only in the draught horse
section, as compared with that most sudden and
deadly of combustibles —fulminate of mercury. For
rapidity in combustion the potassium compounds,
such as black gunpowder, etc., are slow in their
process of transmutation. Same with gun-cotton and
its allied explosives. If they had the instantaneous
effect of the nitrate compounds no gun-breach could
withstand the shock. The most protracted explosion
writer has cognisance of was that of a dead whale
which came ashore on the Queensland coast. I
viewed the catastrophe through a telescope, and the
sou’-east breeze told me the rest. The mine took
five days to blow up.
“Baldy’s” bale of doubts :
If young Australians, who, as “8.J.5.” says (B.
20/3/T3), “slog pens and tend machines” in the big
cities, are such splendid horsemen, the mounted arm
of this continent is an easier proposition than head-
quarters have hitherto suspected. “8.J.5.” quotes
Kitchener’s amazement at the riding abilities of
Northern light-horse squads, but what he expects to
prove thereby I fail to grasp. Kitchener was never
a horseman, nor pretended to be. In a word, he’s
no authority. And hereabouts I’d like to ask
“8.J.5.” for the address of the station that “breeds
these men who are amazing for their horseman-
ship” ? I’ve just come in with a few mokes pur-
chased Right Outback (Q.), and while I sojourned in
that libelled portion of Australia I learned beyond
doubt that a good, quiet rider is a far greater rarity
there than some enthusiastic pen-sloggers would have
us believe. At each place all horses “bought broken”
had to be “backed,” and the news that “herrin-guts
and co.” were to be ridden was invariably sufficient
to emptv every building of its inhabitants, even down
to the travellers’ hut. Never on any one property
did more than two men do the riding, each using
his own saddle, with pads from four to five inches.
Only once was there a really good exhibition given,
yet every “prop” called forth, from the onlookers, a
chorus of “Into ’im, Dave!” “Give the cow all he
wants, Bill!” accompanied by wild whoops, cat-
calls and screams from the mouth of Dave, Jim and
co. Horsemen ? Rabbits!
“Jewel Gun”: Heard a quaint curse in-
voked by a Maori the other day. He was unsuccess-
fully sparring for beer at a way-out pub, and was
finally told by the boss to go to Sheol. “Orright,”
said Henare, “I hope you lose your brurry ricense
(license) ; I don’t care. Jus’ te same to me your
brurry pub get burned to death. I reckon I hope
“Gouger” : In the tropical darkness of the
N.Q. scrubs the air is often laden with a sweet,
langorous scent. Men have searched for hours to
find the source, but, to my knowledge, so far with-
out success. It may come from orchids, the bark of
trees, or trailing creepers, yet in some places where
the scent is overpowering the plant life is all
familiar. The incense is like attar of roses, which
I don’t think I’ve ever smelt. But it sounds by way
of being something extra in its line.
BREAKING UP.
BUSH TEACHER: “I'm going to break up school
to-morrow, Billy. Going to Sydney. ”
BILAMBIL BILLY: “By Cripes, I bin tinkit
break up my plurry old gunyah, too. You
givit me dat big pheller iron alonga root,
make it budgery gunyah.”
A HOWL FOR FREEDOM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Knowing your fearless and fair policy. .. .it occurs
to me to ask; “Am I really in a land which, as a
proper right, flies the Union Jack? Is this really
the twentieth century ? Have the men who are try-
ing to prevent us getting bread for ourselves and
families an education along modern lines? In fact,
are they men? —“An Independent Worker,’’ in Mel-
bourne Argus.
I should really like to know
Why on earth it is, and how,
When to pinch a job I go
I am treated as a cow.
Does the British Flag—l am
Quite aware that loyal yap
Such as this is simply flam :
But—well, does the flag still flap?
Why, when I would play my game
On some other toiler’s pitch,
Should cats and cries of “Shame!”
The atmosphere enrich?
Ain’t I by all decent folk
Cheered when I, for thirty bob,
Taking on the labor yoke,
Snap a bloke’s two-guinea job ?
Though there’s nothing in the fact
To affect the present case —
Is Ber-ritish Freedom stacked
Around in the same old place?
Why and when and how
Are they men or are they not,
Who with rocks await me now?
Also—who am I, and what?
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


h
K\NOCrt MADE
‘BON AX'
KYNOCH LOADED
The British
Standard of Quality.
BONAX
The Sporting Cartridge
with the largest sale
in the world.
Wholesale only,
Scottish House, 90 William St., Melbourne.
Kynoch House, 277 Clarence Street, Sydney
AN EFFECTIVE REMEDY.
Laxo-Tonic Pills are a most effective remedy for
cleansing the blood, thus removing the cause of
pimples, blotches and other blemishes. Price,
and Is. 6d Obtainable everywhere.*
ĥ
The 1.0. A.
Australians should insure in
this Australian Company.
WHY?
Apply for Booklet Free.
The Insurance Office
of Australia Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Hobart, Perth, Rockhampton.
gave herself dp as done.
“I have been a resident of Rockhampton since
1866, and of late years have been a sufferer from
indigestion,” says Mrs. Mary Ann Hawke, East
Street, Rockhampton (Q.). “To make a long story
short, I gave myself up as done with this world
when I happened to take up a Daily Record, in
which I read of the cure for my complaint—Chamber-
lain's Tablets. I at once got a bottle and started to
take them. Before I had half finished it I felt as if
I could eat and enjoy my food, which I could not
do before.”*
Martin's Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. Ladies recommend
them. Be sure you yet the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist. Southampton.
foggitt.jones
ham pate;
la a Hell ehtfuf
Ham o* 2
cm tin hoio. a ouart.r o* a poujtf;
and wwll make quite « bread
appetizing wndwichet. w * very
and butter for lunch or tea it * frofr%
nice—you ehould order a tm
your grocer and try it.
For the third time, as far as is known, a
white kiwi has been found in Maoriland. The kiwi
is the practically wingless night bird, gradually
becoming extinct, which was once described by an
eminent naturalist as “the most unbirdlike of living
feathered creatures.” Its home is in the depths of
the bush, particularly in the interior of the North
Island, and in the wild country of the south-west
sounds of the South Island. One of its extraor-
dinary habits is the laying of an out-size in eggs.
Although Mrs. K. is hardly any bigger than a
domestic fowl, her egg is about as bulky as an emu’s.
This strenuous effort about exhausts the lady, and
the hatching job is considerately attended to by the
male. They are friendly birds, and easily reared in
captivity. The white specimen recently found has
been purchased by the Tourist Department.
IN TOPHET.
S EEDS: “So that's the Treasury Chest !”
T ELLUS: “Yes, and that's the Treasurer sit-
ting on top of it—every member has to
fight him for his salary.”
“The Sparrow”: In order to give “Tea
Tree Bill” (B. 3/4/T3) a chance to get back to the
bedroom from which he was driven trouserless by a
swarm of bees, I have run three miles with the
remedy without even calling at a pub. Tell “Bill”
to take one oil drum or kerosene tin, which has only
a bung-hole opening, 6ft. of hessian (2in. wide),
about a pound of sulphur, an old pot and a garden
hose. Put the sulphur in the pot and melt it (the
sulphur, not the pot) on a fire ; then dip the hessian
strip into the pot until it is well coated with sul-
phur. Dry it. Act 2: Light the hessian strip and
feed it into the drum. Insert the end of the hose in
the bung-hole, seal it in with wet clay, and listen
at the other end with your nose. Just before being
asphyxiated introduce the hose into the fort that the
bees are holding, and then knock off for two beers.
By the time you have mopped them up it will be
time for two more. If the bees are not settled by
then go on with the beer till they are.
ONE OF WEALTH'S DRAWBACKS.
1ST S WAGGIE: “Dash it, Bill, I've lost me knife. There's a hole in me pocket.”
2ND D ITTO: “Ye must ’a’ bin carryin yer sovrins in it ; they wears a pocket Out quicker'n
anything.”
“Pick”: I rush to the support of “Yam,”
who declares (B. 27/3/’l3) that the tuberculin test
for cattle is absolutely reliable. On the South Coast
(N.S.W.) recently, I saw a splendid-looking and
high-bred Jersey bull subjected to the test by a dairy
inspector. He condemned the
bull, although to all outward
appearances the animal was
sound, and was loftily in-
formed by the owner that he
was held responsible for the
value of the beast, if a post-
mortem proved his diagnosis
erroneous. The post-mortem
examination revealed that the
bull had tuberculosis in an
advanced stage. In the same
district I heard a butcher
flippantly remark, that out of
15 bullocks slaughtered by
him, three only could be
said to be entirely free from
the disease, which makes it
appear to me that the tuber-
culin test, and not a very
casual inspection, is urgently
required. However, we are
improving. Some 18 years
ago I saw regularly, every
morning, a cow with her
udder half eaten away by
cancer, yarded among a herd
whose milk went towards
feeding the babies of one of
our largest inland cities.
Even in our present lackadaisical days such a cow *
would nht pass muster without her owner being
mildly spoken to about it.
* * » *
Precis of evidence by E. O. Robinson,
lessee of Melbourne Island, before the Northern : Ter-
ritory Commmission in Melbourne: “I have been on
the Northern Territory coast 26 years, up to 1900,
as trepang fisher, buffalo hunter and miner; also
managed a cattle run at Essington. A white man can
work in the Territory just as well as in the South.
I could easily work eight hours a day on railway
construction, with two or three hours’ rest in the .
middle of the day. I have worked 10 hours a day
in a mine. Essington has a splendid natural harbor.
The mouth of the Adelaide would make a good port,
but most of the rivers are silted up outside the en-
trance. I have not been on the McArthur or Roper
rivers. The main trunk line from Darwin to Oodna-
datta would be the best. A white man can,
of course, work on the wharves; it is only
a question of wages. The Territory is a
typical buffalo country. From only 12 or 16 it
has been practically swamped. Over 300,000 hides
have been obtained. The buffaloes are absolutely
free from disease. They will cross with English
cattle, but I doubt whether the progeny would breed.
Cotton will grow well. Pigs! They breed like
rabbits. There’s a fortune in the pig industry. The
waters teem with fish, and a profitable industry
could be established. All the 300,000 buffaloes got
should ‘ have furnished leather. You cannot wear
out buffalo hide boots. I had a dozen domesticated
buffaloes, and thej' worked well.”
“Sundown Jack”: Out back in Queens-
land, the girls in particular localities have their par-
ticular fancies in regard to Rilljim’s occupation,
calling or plain job. These are particularly notice-
able at the ever-popular “hop.” F’rinstance, in
Augathella you can’t secure a dance unless you bear
evidences of being a bullock-puncher ; whereas in Black-
all, further north, you will sit the programme out if
you are not a drover; and in Tambo, midway be-
tween, you have no earthly of securing a partner if
you are not a jumbuck barber. It was a young lady
of the latter town who said: “He’s such a nice
young fellow. What a pity he isn’t a shearer.” I
haven’t yet heard of the town that favored beer-
lifters, though they are a very extensive class.
* * * *
“Eddyson” : Take the case of John Walter
Winrow. John is a man of independent means,
who, up to the age of 32, when he came to Aus-
tralia, had to put up a terrific fight for the meanest
subsistence. He had been down to it in many
places, and forced to content himself with the
things the swine do eat, and to embezzle the bones
cast to the backyard dog. After ten years of hard
mozzle in this country he struck luck, and began to
put things by for rainy days. He was exceedingly
solicitous about the coming inclemency even when
his financial position would have justified him in
facing Noah’s flood with equanimity. The family
of John Walter Winrow, haying had no necessity to
go to the dogs with a view to embezzling the dog-
biscuits, put on a pretentious appearance as time
went by, and surrounded themselves with a fine
house in an extravagant suburb where everything
is a penny a pound dearer than it is everywhere
else. Here John Walter Winrow was rarely seen
without a high and glowing Paris hat; he was
always becomingly garbed in dark clothes, simple
and yet sumptuous, and an atmosphere of settled
respectability invested the whole household. Then
one day John Walter, senior, went missing. He
had risen at about six in the morning, and gone
abroad unseen. Great alarm was occasioned by the
peculiar fact that the head of the family had taken
no known clothes . with him. All his garments of
which the sons had any knowledge were about the
house. There was a long and earnest search for the
missing housefather. When a night passed and he
had not reappeared, police assistance was called in,
the family, for the sake of its reputation, enjoining
deep secrecy. In a week John Walter Winrow had
not been heard of, and the idea of suicide while in
a state of unsound mind was urging itself upon his
friends. On the tenth day John was discovered by
a grocer’s assistant who was carting rubbish to a
corporation tip. The rich Winrow, senior, was de-
plorably dressed in the uniform of a professional
beat. He was busy raking over the tip, picking
out rags, bones and scraps of metal. Further in-
vestigation disclosed the fact that he had been so
engaged ever since leaving his home. He sold his
collected wares at a Port Melbourne marine store,
and was pigging in a wretched den attached to a
Chinese laundry, for which retreat he paid Is. a
week. Three weeks after being restored to home,
family and appropriate apparel, John broke away
again. Again he was found in broken pants and
dishonorable boots, delving for negotiable goods in
a malodorous suburban tip, and again he was rein-
stated in his incandescent Paris hat and his semi-
palatial home, only to make another break-away at
the first opportunity. Nowadays and nights John
Walter Winrow, Esq., is carefully supervised; but
if he eludes his guard, it is known that he will pro-
ceed to bargain with someone for a change of garb,
and will hasten to rake over the tips for anything
he can turn into money; and there hi§ .distracted
relations overtake him with a closed vehicle and a
bottle of carbolic. The old man is still providing
for that rainy day.
“Gouger”: lie clings to the leaves of
trees in the N.Q. rainy season, is an inch long and
a quarter-inch broad. Body color is light yellow
decorated with a line of purple spots exactly like
the portholes of a new ship. Completely a?Sund the
flattish body is an array of close, perfectly stiff
spikes. The least touch from these on a man's han.i
provides a sense of electric shock. The unique part
of this insect battery is that he has no legs. His
belly is a sticky glue, with which he gets a suction-
grip and pulls himself along caterpillar-fashion.
That’s about all I know of him—unless you’d like to
hear my plain, unvarnished opinion of the cow.
“Jenks” : After Hoppy had cut out at his
Wimmera shed he made “down country.” He cut
out his cheque on the way to Casterton, but was
lucky enough to strike another shed shorthanded.
He got the job, did the work, and collected his
paper. Now, Hoppy thought he liked Casterton beer
very well, and when he’d done testing it he had
only enough cash left to pay for a length of clothes-
line. A far-seeing gent, was Hoppy. After playing
up to some extent, he became despondent, and
resolved to put the clothes-line to the best possible
use he could think of. Clearing out of the town,
he found a lovely tree, and, with great presence of
mind, tied one end of his rope on a branch and the
other end around his neck. A short time afterwards,
just as Hoppy was about to enter the golden gates,
some fool came along and cut him down, and Hoppy
went on living. After mooching about for some
weeks he toddled off to Coleraine. Here he
approached a squatting potentate. “Can yer give
us a job, mister?” he asked nicely. “What can you
do?” asked Comeback. “Anything,” said Hoppy,
very nicely. “Well, who are ?/ou?” queried Come-
back. Hoppy began to look indignant. “Me!” he
said incredulously. “Me / Why I’m the bloke what
hung meself down Casterton. Didn’t yer ’ear about
it?”
* * * *
“Tamumn” tells Ilenare’s tale of woe:
One time I take te bush contract job. I tell you
about him. You know I te good bushman. I te
plurrv good man with te toke (axe). I get te three
pound te week te time I work for te pakeha. I take
te 200-acre contract from Morgan, te squatter, at
thirty shilling te acre, fall everythings. By korry, I
think I make te cheque as big as te blanket. I take
Hone and Hikurangi for te mate. They never like to
be in te contrac’ ; they think no good; so I pay te
wages. „ ' , ‘ ,
We get te plenty store from Morgan, and we work
all right for three week. Then Hikurangi he say:
“No good this way, Henare, te man he cook te kai.
Suppose I get te missus, you give te pound te week?”
I say “All right,” and I put te three more Maori on
te job to finish quick. I te cunnin’ fellow Mrs.
Hikurangi she have te cook for te whole crowd for te
pound te week. But, by korry, Mrs. Hikurangi sne
not too slow. When I get te more man. she bring te
three piccaninny from te pa, and I got to give them
te tucker, too. Hone and Hikurangi work two more
week, then thev like to go the races. I give te order
on te boss for te cheque. When they come back they
no good—too much te waipiro —so I give them te
Winter time now and te Maori in te pa wry hard
up. Some come to te camp and eat te kai three-four
day. sometime te week. Some fellow I give te order
on te boss for te tungaree trow’, te flannel, te plucher
and te few bob —vou know that te way te Maori. Then
I get te bad shock. Morgan he come one day and he
have te look. He say: “By korry, no more Maori con-
tract for me! You get te thirty acre to fall yet, and
all te money for te job he finish.” I say: “How te
way?” He" say: “You give all te pa te tucker, te
clo’es, te money; I think you porangi (mad). I put
te white man on now to finish te job and I stop te
money out of your shearin’ and grass-seedin’ cheques
till we square up.”
By korry, no more contract for me. Te Maori he
never pay back what I give him —that te way te
Maori, i te bankrupt all te same te pakeha. Long
time now I work off te dead horse —no good that
fellow.”
DROUGHT TIME.
C OCKY: “ Whatcher doin' out this way, any'ow?"
T OURIST: "Oh, just seeing life, old man."
COCKY: “Seeing life! Yer know dam well
there ain't a thing alive in go mile o' [?]
’ceptin' crows.”
“Troddles”: Some of the shallow wells in
Queensland northern coastal country give amazing
results. You just stick in a spear and strike a
fresh-water ocean. About 14 years ago something
extra in the way of a supply seemed to have been
struck about two miles outside Mackay, and the
municipality took it over. After it had been thor-
oughly tested a service tank was put up alongside
the well, and for over 12 years the increasing de-
mands of a flourishing township (with brewery
attached) have failed to get level with the output.
If there’s any other place of the same size with as
good a supply drawn daily from one small hole in
the ground, I’ll not be opposed to hearing about it.
AN ARCADIAN MEMORY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Blank with an utter vanity of thought
I sat me down beneath a solemn tree.
The large sun in a net of branches caught,
Flung wide a dust of careless gold on me;
Afar a chimney smoked where someone taught
Unthinking tripe to stew aright for tea.
A small dog snapped at his tormenting flies;
A bottle-oh was calling down the street;
The world was full of afternoon, and wise
To lie and dream amid the summer heat;
And then you came and brought along your eyes
By some arrangement with your dainty feet.
I loved you in a large and lazy way
Because your lips were very sweet and red,
And all your hair with lustre of the day
Had made a shining glory round j'our head ;
Also your laughter was a thing as gay
As some god’s jest to elfin harpings wed.
You laughed, I listened, and the world was young
As when Greek winds replete with Sappho’s fire
The burden of her wonder-music flung
Against the capes and peaks of hot desire;
Or when the first clear songs of joy were sung
To the faint trembling of a Thracian lyre.
I took your hand, that small hand pink and fair,
That set my own a-tremble at the touch;
The lingering clasp was exquisite to share.
Young summer in her sweetest prime has such
Delight to yield to the warm winds that wear
Her poppy petals, loving overmuch.
I sought to find your lips for one long kiss,
But somehow you eluded my slow chase,
For I was tired and ’tis a fact that this
Was, in the meaning of the Act, a place
Where lovers ought to be content to miss
The joy of squeezing radiant face on face.
And then you spoke, and all the large world set
Its broad and heavy summer foot on me,
Pressing the hobnails of a cold regret
Into the neck of gladness wild and free;
You said in accents love can not forget,
“John, you are very drunk. Come home to tea.”
N.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


da ILVH ERAIE>NE'WS QRAPH
STRIKE j
H/O (OMMENT-S
ON
ftoAi[Wm
OftlHtf To
jAV Rt f<W"
/ N <j articles
>MCK Ifq s'
Mmif
milfoil,
1
HfFldlLL Fiiftir
To THE IAjT
]) o.y/N iY'th
Tfjt mm l
Closed. »« AccqunT
Death o/ r'/ter SPf&h
■ MM—MM— i mi ■■■
THE LATEST STRIKE: THE DAILY PRESS GOES OUT.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
F or
QUALITY.
HATS.
For
DURABILITY.
HONESTLY RECOMMENDED.
“To anyone suffering from diarrhoea I can honestly
recommend Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea
Remedy as being the most satisfactory medicine on
the market,” writes Mr. C. C. Hooper, Wakefield
(N.Z.). “I have tried all sorts of so-called ‘cures,
but have found nothing equal to Chamberlain’s Colic
and Diarrhoea Remedy.”*
The name of Pike Brothers, Limited, h as grown
apace in the Australasian World of Men’s Outfitting-
It is mostly always coupled wherever new values anu
new ideas appertaining to high-grade merchandise
for men are spoken of between one man and another.
The firm were amongst the pioneers of the system
of mail ordering, instituted for the convenience
and the prompt service to the Man on the ban •
Their Commonwealth Catalogue is one of the large
publications of its kind throughout Australia aea-
ing with articles of the better kind for wear a
use for man. It consists of upwards of 250 P a ® e , h _
profusely illustrated —containing clippings ‘ rom p ;i. e
newest fabrics imported from time to time.
Brothers, Limited, of Brisbane, are familiar to m
readers of : The Bulletin, and those who n ave ,, •_
already applied should obtain a copy °r t
catalogue for reference purposes. By sending to
firm and mentioning The Bulletin, a copy win
mailed by return, post free.*
PERSONAL
ITEMS
W. E. Hart, the youthful Australian avia-
tor who fell 200 ft. last year and is still alive
and extremely well, does not propose to
abandon flying altogether. In fact, he is now
having a bi-plane built which will not only
convey him from the land to the air and
back again, but will also light on the water
and emerge therefrom at the word of com-
mand. Hart has so far deferred to the
GEORGE
DOWNER,
CHAIRMAN
OF THE
BANK OF
ADELAIDE.
wishes of his family as
to retire from the suicidal
business of professional
flying for good. There
are dangers about pro-
fessional aviation which
the amateur need not
face. The amateur, for
example, can pick his
own day, and in aviation
a calm day is nine points
of the game. When not
amusing himself by
risking his life in
the upper air,
Hart is a city den-
tist, and any man
who wants his
tooth extracted,
along with a free
view o f a man who
fell 200 ft., and
survived, is hereby
dire c t ed to a
unique opportun-
ity. Very few den-
tists have fallen so
far, or even half so
far.
The informativeness of our great dailies !
The Sydney Telegraph mentioned the othqr
day that M. Anatole, “of France,” had taken
a hand in the Belgian strike, and the Herald
intimated that Lord Wolseley was the
author of “John Churchill, Duke of Welling-
ton.”
Died recently in England, Francis Pringle
Taylor, who in the ’Bo’s was commander of
the corvette Wolverine, a curious old ark
that was to be the nucleus of a navy in
N. S. Males. In those days the jealousy
between Ala and victoria was in danger of
being settled by the Wolverine on one side
and the Cerberus on the other. Pringle
later oil, became boss of the Brisbane Navy!
but in ’B9 he handed in the entire tug and
sailed for Britain.
The outrageously expensive Earl Nelson
has just bought an heiress with his title.
The young man costs the nation £5OOO a
year—and he isn’t even a descendant of the
Trafalgar man. That was an expensive
business for the State. Nelson being dead,
the grief-stricken nation did the stupid
thing of making his brother an hereditary
BISHOP
THOMAS,
OF
ADELAIDE.
peer. Parliament
handed out £120,000
in hard cash to give
the family a lift. The
new Earl and all
his successors were
also to get £5OOO a
year for ever. When
Nelson’s brother died
he left no son, so the
son of Nelson’s sis-
ter Susie became an
hereditary legislator
of Great Britain.
He drew £5OOO a
year, too, and went
on drawing it for 24
years= £120,000. His
son is the present
Earl.
The deceased John Rowland Dacey, mem-
ber of the N.S.W. Assembly, who was a good
man and true, and had a broad strain of
mirth in his composition, got a poor and
dreary and wooden send-off, after all. The
monument was imported, and Dac-ev, as a
good supporter of Australian industry, would
have slept much better with Australian goods
on his chest. The inscription started with
the old, hackneyed “Sacred to the Memory
of,” and Dacey hated the old and hackneyed.
There was always a streak of the unusual
about him. And, finally, the marble docu-
ment said he was “Colonial Treasurer of
N.S.W.” He wasn’t, and didn’t want to be.
He was State Treasurer. The last authentic
Colonial Treasurer was Lyne.
“Chudah”: Maurice Brodzky, the Russo-
Pole whom Melbourne knew for a lot of
years, is said to have come in for a fortune.
Brodzky reached Victoria over 30 years ago,
drifted to the press, toiled on the Herald!
and married Miss Leon, of Geelong, who had
an income of £4 a week in good Australian
monish.” He established Table Talk, and
might have made it go, but hampered it by
too much economy. In the end, he had to
sell it to meet the expenses of a foolish libel
perpetrated on Labor-member Bromley. The
libel wasn’t worth 24d. to anybody, and
Brodzky might possibly have side-stepped the
case by a timely apology, but as he elected
to see it through, he had to retire licked.
Gathering up his family and his disappoint-
ment, he departed for the United States,
where his little old crony, Moses Aaron
liapken, who had been a small job drapery
warehouseman in Melbourne, had made
many dollars as a wine merchant. After-
wards. he went to London and labored for
the British Australasian. Brodzky told
me he was in the Franco-German disturb-
ance as a French private.
Major Frederick Basse, just dead in Ade-
laide of cancer, was one of that city’s good
Australians of German name and descent.
Also, he was one of its leading jewellers. His
military work had the basis of active service
against a European foe, for, as a very young
man, he handled a rifle against France in
1870. He put in his leisure time as presi-
dent of the Naval and Military Club and the
Lyric, and as a promoter of musical ventures
in general.
At last, it is pleasing to report, the Law
has fallen on that adventurous person called
Alexander Bull Hoggstein, who writes his
name on the beautiful scenery of this world,
and even tries to disfigure the pearly gate of
Heaven with the designation of Jacob Griffith
Stubbs. This individual has been justly fined
55.. with os. costs, for writing the name of
Briggs on the grand arch at the Jenolan
Caves (N.S.W.), and if it doesn’t do him
good, it ought to.
Still another Pope has been officially re-
ported as “sinking”—to rise again in a
bettor world. A Pope is an old man elected
by old men, so his ownership of the Fisher-
man’s ring is short. During the 400 years
up to 1899 the Sovereigns of Denmark reigned
on an average 30 years ; of Austria, Prussia
and Spain, 25 years ; of Britain, 24; Portu-
gal, 18; Sweden, 16J; Russia and Turkey,
15; and the average official duration of a
Pope was 9j years.
Dead (and buried) in the Red Sea, Rod-
ney Matheson, Adelaide squatter and sports-
man. His Wallace mare, Kirn, was a St.
Ivilda Cup and Port Adelaide Cup winner,
and was third in the last Newmarket Handi-
cap. Matheson was a brother of the better-
known Simon Matheson, who managed Buck-
land Park for Dr. Browne, and he himself
managed Nilpena for the same owner. After-
wards he owned_ it, as well as Leigh’s Creek
and Myrtle Springs. He was only 51, and
his death while on a pleasure trip was
utterly unexpected.
The merits of the late C. C. Kingston as
a Parliamentary draftsman came under dis-
cussion in S.A. Supreme Court lately. “Too
skeletonic,” thought Paris Nesbit, K.C.
Piper, K.C., suggested that Kingston’s Taxa-
tion Act got the money into the Treasury
all right, but did not take enough trouble to
apportion the burden among those liable. Old
Chief Justice Way, however —though King-
ston in his prime stood for most things that
Way found particularly abhorrent—gave him
a handsome testimonial. The Taxation Act,
he said, was a masterpiece of draftsmanship.
Then he became reminiscent. “Mr. Kingston
began his career as a clerk in my own office.
He was a fine draftsman even then. I
always found it advisable, however, to em-
ploy another clerk to make a fair copy of his
.drafts,_ rather than spend my time in trying
to decipher whet to me were mere hiero-
glyphics.” The Bar and the pressmen smiled
their confirmation. The crabbedness of
Kingston’s script was to be compared onlv
with that of his lifelong antagonist, R. C.
Baker.
GEORGE REID—HIS LATEST
PHOTOGRAPH.
Old Earl Nelson, who died in London the
other day, drew £5OOO a year in pension
money from that patient ass, the British
taxpayer, mainly because one Horatio Nel-
son, a grand-uncle of his—the brother of
his grandmother—paid the not-unnatural
penalty of the calling he had deliberately
adopted, and died a little earlier than might
otherwise have been the case. The late
lamented third Earl declined to contribute
to some, charity a few months ago because,
as he said, he had been hit so hard by recent
Radical taxation that he couldn’t afford a
bean. Of course taxes have to be paid, other-
wise pensions couldn’t be paid to large reci-
pients of pauper beans like Earl Nelson;
but it is obviously immoral to tax fat pen-
sioners. If you rob Peter to pay Paul, why
add to your iniquity by robbing Paul to re-
lieve Peter?
“Vulcan”: Why do the sons of
hasten to the law nowadays, and If Koils
a notable success when they gettw s " ch
father of Sydney barristo A R p;L Th, ‘
ton, who lately received and' nromnfi g '
signed a High Court Judgeship r l e :
he became, I believe, the shortest Lm - y
Australian history, bar “
clergyman. So was the father of l, !• a
Rich, who succeeds him, and of his ’ T t stlCe
Harvey, who follows Rich on the Y
Bench. My theory is that the parsocf'S,;
is a peaceful one, and when a cleric hllf
wiched into a family it gives the shin,,'
family intellect a rest. Strenu ous
MR. O'MALLEYS IDEAL.
He had been attacked in the Telegraph because he
told some stories that made people laugh. Who was
the most appreciated speaker the State ever knew?
George Reid. Why? Because, with all his know-
ledge of human nature, he understood the value of
a little humor. —The O’Malley.
“Broad Arrow”: Though death dissolves
all adherences, the advantages of sticking
together in life are proved by the obituary
notices of Frederick .Tames Edgar, governor
of Pentridge (Vic.) Prison. Edgar was the
second youngest of five brothers, whose policy
it was to boost one another whenever an op-
portunity offered. Somewhat like the school-
boy’s description of Ctesar’s wife, each of
the Edgars was all things to all brothers,
and, like Caesar’s wife again was, in this
matter, above suspicion. F. J. Edgar, orig-
inally a telegraph messenger, rose to be Gov-
ernor of Pentridge: A. R. Edgar, the eldest
brother, cuts ice and hot cross buns as a boss
Methodist parson ; 11. S. Edgar is senior in-
spector in the Vic. Public Service; W. H.
Edgar is Minister for Public Works, and has
held other portfolios in the Vic. Cabinet;
and A. E. Edgar has a profitable financial
agency in the city.
W. M. Scott, a pioneer of Ballarat,
has, at the age of 87 years, turned
into the Benevolent Asylum, of which
institution he is a life governor. He
has been president, and was a member
of the committee for half a century.
The old gentleman has a fine local
record ; apart from his work for the
Benevolent Asylum he was for 50
years a member of the Water Commis-
sion, and was chairman of the old
trust when the original reservoir was
completed.
Dr. Mercer, the bright, good-hum-
ored poet who is Anglican Bishop of
Tasmania, says he is going to be ab-
sent from the diocese for a year and
may not return. People in Hobart
and other parts of the little island
which the British Government collared
as a cage for burglars and men of that
sort, will be sorry to lose John Ed-
ward. When he arrived in Tasmania
in 1902 the R.C. Archbishop, having
sized him up on his English records,
sent him a telegram of welcome, and
when he went to Launceston for the
first time all the clergy of the place
met him on the railway platform;
and he has been on good terms with
pretty well everybody in the island
ever since. Yet he has always been
springing surprises on the people who
expect conventional things from a
bishop. Thus his first sermon in Tas-
mania was delivered to a Cathedral
full of soldiers who came to thank God
the Anglo-Boer war was over, and he
Knocked all the glorv out of the business
by saying that “war is a poor game, after
all.”
“Leges” writes :
Herbert Druce is dead. He was the leading figure
in the trial which slew the claim of his nephew,
George Druce, to the dukedom and estates of Port-
land. George accused Herbert of perjury, inasmuch
as the latter had sworn that he saw the coffined re-
mains of his father, Thomas Druce (who whs George s
grandfather). George affirmed that he was the heir
of the Duke of Portland, who led a double life as
Thomas Druce. Herbert swore that the body in the
coffin was not that of the Duke of Portland. The
proceedings lasted months. Then came the exhuma-
tion. An elderly gentleman with whiskers was dis-
covered. His whiskers and other features proved
Herbert to be right. The perjured evidence that was
given in support of George Druce’s claim aroused
the admiration of suborners the world over. A
company, under the title of Druce, Limited, sup-
ported the bogus cla ; m, and lost £7500.
VERY HAGGARD, INDEED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Therefore, while it is with no spirit of self-praise
—God forbid it! —that I speak, still, as the chair-
man has said that it is something to have a name
that is known wherever English is spoken. I agree.
....But writing is a heartbreaking trade. You
never know but what you may be the butterfly of
the hour, one of those brilliant creatures like I saw
in Cairns the other day—clear, fresh, azure, to go
up and be no more seen. We none of us know....
There came a time when I was satiated with fiction.
.... Even here you have the poor; God knows why,
I don’t. . . .1 have tried, God knows, to write nothing-
base ; God knows whether I have succeeded.
—From a long , damp speech by Rider Haggard.
We remembered splendid niggers—we remembered
dear, old “She” ;
But he wouldn’t say one word about those bombs of
myster-ee;
From the bowing interviewer he retired into his
shell,
Like a wise and wary wizard who has cast a splendid
spell ;
But to soothe the baffled newsman he spoke solemnly
of ploughs,
And the stuff that shoves the wheat up, and the in-
wardness of Cows.
Oh, his reticence was splendid in the verv earlv
days,
And to tear his secrets from him with the press be-
came a craze;
Ev’ry morn they told us Rider had evaded telling
how
He had written those romances by retailing some
more Cow ;
To that whiskered mine of Knowledge still each
pressman sought the key,
And the gaping public panted over ev’ry page of
“She.”
But at last there came an evening when the eraft
were gathered round,
And the man of yarns volcanic made a confidential
sound ;
Then the guarded deeps were opened, and the cave
of Death unsealed,
And Discretion’s thick tarpaulin from the hatch of
Life was peeled.
Of the cargo he unloaded they had very soon enow —
It was mostly brine and Haggard and a lot of
pickled Cow.
Store the leaping, yelling impi on the bookshelf by
your bed ;
Let old What’s-his-name go raving with his warclub
dripping red ;
Know and treasure Rider Haggard by the paragraph
and page,
But avoid the farmer smitten with the cloven hoof
of Age;
All his vim is in the novels stuffed with color, rush
and row ;
In the flesh he is a Wowser full of sorrow, brine and
Cow.
N.S.W.
FOE.
OUITS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Fred B. Smith threw a bombshell into Toorak
in his address to women at the Town Hall. He said
that he had two sons, and he would sooner receive
a cable message announcing their deaths than a cable
message stating that they were to be married to
society women. —Sydney Sun (18/4/’l3 .
Hiram J. and Silas B.
Are a joyous sight to see.
They trudge nobly, day by day,
On the straight and narrow way.
To their course they stick like glue;
They are straight and narrow too.
All their acts—so say their kith—
Glorify the name of Smith.
Hiram J. and Silas B.
Always shun Society.
Neither of them can abide
Turkey Trot or Gaby Glide.
Dances, suppers, morning teas
Have no charm for saints like these.
Washington may pine away,
New York look all drawn and grey—•
Hiram ,T. and Silas B.
Save their souls unceasingly.
Pa would rather they were dead
Than to two “high steppers” wed.
And the cities twain afar
Probably feel just like Pa.
N.S.W.
THE OFFICE WOWSER.


BAC
Ur
a
5850
in
;
Replenishing
Stores
/
c **Orr
To %a
capotah
cc
TO>-<\C
c 'W‘e T
r °B
‘Kcq
NAVY
CUT
BEFORE Australia’s ships put to
sea, Capstan Tobacco must be
aboard. Then for Jack there is
a vast contentment and the pleasant
hours that come only from the
enjoyment of his favourite smoke.
Capstan Navy Cut Tobacco
is made from the
choicest Virginian
leaf, and possesses a
flavour and fragrance that —,
is unmatchable the world over.
The Famous Brand of W. D. & H. 0. WILLS
THREE STRENGTHS—
MILD, MEDIUM and FULL
Packed In lot, 2ox» and 4ox,
.PATENT AIRTIGHT TINS
obtainable In Plus Form,
THE LAST WORD IN
rLMN)
PIPES
400
pipe Guarani


WORTHINGTON PUMP COMPANY LTD.
PUMPS—STEAM, AIR or MOTOR DRIVEN, CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS
CONDENSERS and COOLING TOWERS. GAS and OIL ENGINES and
GAS PLANTS, MINE VENTILATING FANS, AIR COMPRESSORS
FEED WATER HEATERS & PURIFIERS. OIL & STEAM SEPARATORS.'
For Catalogues and
Information apply—
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY
SISKOL” ROCKDRILLS.
"SISKOL” HAMMERDRILLS.
“SISKOL” COALCUTTERS.
International Channelling Machines Ltd.
DIERCKS & CO. PROP. LTD.,
465 Collins St., Melbourne.
55 York St., Sydney. _
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Savings Bank of New South
Wales :
Interest Writ-
Net Paid to ten To Re- Re-
Earnings. Depositors. Off. serves, serves.
Dec., £ £ £ £ £
1901.. 175,263 3J p.c. = 158,693 98 16,472 276,062
1902.. 185,493 3£ „ ~166,146 19,347 295,409
1903.. 189,245 3| „ ~167,819 21,426 316,835
1904.. 194,745 4 ~ ~190,175 4,570 321,405
1905.. 196,366 4 „ ~ 193,917 2,449 323,854
1906.. 205,126 3£ „ ~183,470 4,458 17 198 341,052
1907.. 218,515 3£ „ ~ 197,272 7,077 14,166 355,218
1908.. 227,562 3£ ~ ~207,674 4,524 15,364 370,582
1909.. 237,036 3| ~ ~213,989 654 22,393 392,975
1910.. 248,393 3i „ ~222,954 14,8931
£9500 transferred to Officers’J- 1,046 394,021
Provident Fund J
1911.-264,287 3J p.c. = 236,718 5,701 21,868 415,889
1912.. 277,945 4 „ „ 286,232 407,602
That last line shows the little capers that are being
played to “queer the pitch” of the Commonwealth
Bank. In order to prove to the public that the
State Codlin’s their friend, and not the Common-
wealth Short, this concern actually paid out more
in interest last year than its net earnings amounted
to. In the published accounts the thing is cloaked;
the transaction is shown as a draft of £23,000 on
the Reserve Fund “for the equalisation of interest.”
It was not for the “equalisation” of interest at all;
it was for the glorification of interest. To put it
quite plainly, the management played a confidence
trick on the public by paying more interest than it
earned, thereby enticing deposits to which the real
facts of the case didn’t entitle it.
There has been absolutely no justification for the
existence of this bank for many years past. The
State of N. S. Wales has had a Government savings
bank: this other concern, known as the Barrack-
street Bank, is neither one thing nor the other. It
pretends to be a private concern, managed by a
Board of Trustees, but when the public thundered at
the doors a few years ago the Government had to
save it —-and the Government would have to do the
same thing again in similar circumstances. Even
on the amalgamation of this Savings Bank, which is
a State Bank when it’s in trouble, and the other
Savings Bank, which is a State Bank all the time,
things will still be unsatisfactory because of the
existence of the Commonwealth Bank alongside.
Already we have seen one result in the weakening
of the reserves of this bank. Other results are
visible in almost every suburb. In every sizeable
place where there is a post-office to do the Com-
monwealth Bank’s savings business, the State Govern-
ment has bought or leased land alongside, or oppo-
site, or thereabouts, or has commandeered part of
a school play-ground, in order to rush up premises
to compete with the other institution. This means
an utterly unnecessary outlay in bricks and gal-
vanised iron, and an utterly unnecessary duplication
of staffs; and though the interest payable to the
public may be inflated for a while bv dipping into
the reserves, it is obvious that the clients must pay
for the useless outlay in the long run.
The deposits amounted to £8,243,408 on Dec. 31,
as against £7,765,643 twelve months previously.
The total funds (reserves included) at the end of
the year were £8,655,319, invested as follows: —
1911. 1912.
Mortgages .. .. £1,058,498 £1,351,238
State securities .. 4,051,719 4,159,750
Municipal ditto . . 1,545,860 1,623,524
Bank deposits .. 1,304,415 1,243,707
Working account . . 135,644 185,581
Premises .. .. 89,229 91,519
Total .. .. £8,185,365 £8,655,319
The bank has still too much loaned out to other
banks, but there is an improvement in that respect.
Nevertheless, having bestirred itself a little and
found mortgage securities for itself, instead of pass-
ing the iob on to some other institution, prudence
demanded that the extra risk should be covered by
extra reserves. Instead, however, of extra reserves,
the funds available to safeguard securities have been
actually reduced, as shown above.
The N.S.W. Miners’ Accident Relief
Fund. —This fund was established by law in 1900,
and is the sort of admirable thing that every other
State should copy. There was a time when it was
easy enough—anyway, it was comparatively easy—
to extract money from the public for the relief
of the widows and orphans of men killed in a
“sensational” mine accident. If 20 men were killed
and the papers were filled with tales of heroic
rescue parties and so on, the public used to boom
a relief fund ; but when John Smith was killed by
a commonplace fall of rock in a commonplace man-
ner, there was no sensation, and John Smith’s
widow went to the washtub and John Smith’s
children often went hungry. Just at present it is
difficult to raise money even after a Mount Lyell
disaster. “Go to your unions,” say Fat and his
friends who have had a toe trodden on by some mili-
tant trade society. In any case, besides being so
precarious, the old cadging was a degrading busi-
ness. There are obvious risks in mining, as there
are more or less in everything; and the right thing
is to provide for them in advance in a business-
like way. This Fund is an attempt—and thus far
a most successful one—to do so. The Act provides
that all men emploved in or about all but the very
smallest mines shall be contributors. Three duties
are cast upon the mineowner: (1) to deduct 9d. per
fortnight from every Workman’s pay; (2) to pay
that amount in full to a local committee; and (3)
to pay out of his own moneys a subsidy of 41d. per
man per fortnight to a central committee. The Govern-
ment pays an equal amount (41d. per man per fort-
night) to the same committee. The local committees
(whose members receive small fees nowadays) pay
out current accident claims; the Central committee
is the banker and general administrator. The bene-
fits include these payments: 15s, per week to every
workman during disablement by accident; 10s. per
week to the widow or other dependent of any mem-
ber killed by accident; 3s. to every child under 14 ;
£l2 for funeral expenses.
In the early days of the fund the outgoings were
naturally small, because there was no accumula-
tion of widows, orphans or permanently disabled
members drawing benefits. But year by year the
proportion of benefits paid to revenue received has
grown larger. This shows the position, revenue
from investments being omitted:—
Contributions Ciaims Cash
and Subsidies. Paid. Balance.
1901 .. £31,901 £6,479 £24,984
1902 .. 37,429 10,490 50,353
1903 . . 43,221 13,767 80,137
1904 . . 45,019 16,494 109,382
1905 . . 46,995 20,501 137,090
1906 . . 49,472 28,353 161.813
1907 . . 56,995 30,792 192,601
1908 .. 57,969 34.538 220,873
1909 .. 48,271 3.3,940 241,511
1910 .. 46,076 35,565 259,080
1911 .. 54,581 41,782 279,566
1912 . ■ 56,844 44,301 300,637
Thus, in 1902 the claims paid amounted to only 28
p.c. of the contributions and subsidies, whereas last
year they totalled 78 p.c. For every £lOO paid by
the employees themselves last year the payments
were £154 12s. And the benefits in proportion to
contributions haven’t finished creeping up vet.
There are 308 widows on the fund ; 12 months ago
there were 276. There were 204 permanently dis-
abled men drawing their 15s. a week 12 months
ago; there are 232 now. Every little while there
is an agitation, in view of the growth of the funds,
to increase the benefits (which have already been
put up 25 p.c. nearly all round). When benefits
and contributions have attained an approximately
fixed proportion—as they must in course of time—
the actuary will be better able to advise as to
whether more liberality is possible.
So long as expenses remain as modest as they
are now, it is quite likely that, later on, bigger
payments, or payments on other accounts (to men
disabled by diseases incidental to the miners’ call-
ing, for instance), may be found possible. Mean-
time, it may be once more remarked that the ac-
counts would have a much more honest appearance
if they showed the whole of the expenses. Secre-
tary’s salary, office rent and exes., and similar items,
are never charged against the Fund, which is no
doubt good for the Fund, but is most unbusiness-
like nevertheless. The funds are, of course, invested
in N.S.W. Government stock, mostly at 3J p.c.
* * * *
Permewan, Wright and Co., Ltd.,
carriers, etc., of Melbourne and elsewhere:- -
Net Written To Re- Re-
Jan., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves-
-1902.. £5150 8 p.c. =£sooo £7500 J 6,364
1903.. 6630 8 „ „ 5000 7,994
Loss. Deficit.
1904.. 594 3 „ „ 1875 9662 4,137
1905.. 4225 Nil 136 8,498
1906.. 1566 Nil 1022 11,086
Profit.
1907.. 5364 Nil 308 £5056 6,030
{Plant apparently written
down 6371 12,401
Reserves.
£12,500 capital written off 99
Profit.
6731 6 p.c. = 3000 3731 3,830
1909.. 1797 5 „ „ 2500 3,127
1910.. 3532 5 „ „ 2500 1032 4,159
1911.. 5562 6,, „ 3000 2562 6,721
1912.. 5594 6„ „ 3000 2594 9,315
1913.. 7689 6 „ ~ 3000 4689 14,004
This co. makes most of its crust by paddling up and
down the Murray and other rivers, carrying other
people s goods and peddling its own; also it has
various up-country and back-country branches in
Victoria and N. S. Wales, mainly for handling
farmers’ produce one way and farmers’ requisites
the other way. This long-winded country trade no
doubt accounts for the size of the book debts. Here
are the figures of the various balance-sheet items:—
1901. 1910. 1911. 1912. 1913.
Liabilities .. £28,014 £30,781 £42,915 £47,501 £40,325
Assets—
Plant .. .. 47,358 38,870 39,985 45,824 45,842
Book debts .. 48,981 34,990 45,253 46,080 44,912
Merchandise 9,270 10,537 13,441 14,704 13 835
Miscellaneous 2.107 3,044 3,957 3,208 2,740
The established wool and wheat grower who hasn’t
got too big a mortgage-plaster on his back is a
first-rate mark; but since be gets most of his
income in one lump—after shearing or harvest—he
has a habit of expecting other people to take long-
distance bills. This is a reasonable explanation of
the size of the book-debts, which would otherwise
look over-big. As for profits, they are large; but they
are eaten into by the heavy depreciation of river
and road plant. Last year, for instance, £3212
was written off for wear and tear and another
£2193 went in repairs. The directors mention
that one steamer and one barge have been sold
lately, at prices above book values; so appar-
ently the assets are kept well written down. As the
table shows, the business is full of ups and downs,
largely due to the erratic behavior of the back coun-
try and the markets for back-country products.
Nevertheless, with good management, there seems a
fine future for a co. doing this class of business; but
it calls for a lot of management, and the right sort
hasn’t by any means been always available.
Provident Life Assurance Co., of
Maoriland, but doing business also in Australia:—
Expenses Total Carried to
Total and Divi- Out- Assurance
June, Income. Claims, dends. goings. Fund. Deficit.
1901.. £10,738 £3,332 £6,205 £9,537 £1,201 £396
Assurance
Fund.
1902.. 12,237 3,907 7,231 11,138 1,099 703
Capital forfeited 20 723
1903.. 13,472 3,988 7,791 11,779 1,693 2,416
Taken over from old co 612 3,028
Dec.,
1904.. 15,289 3,434 8,449 11,883 3,406 6 434
1905.. 15,826 4,342 8,402 12,744 3,082 9*516
1906.. 18,350 3,650 10,793 14,443 3,907 13’423
1907.. 20,357 4,375 11,775 16,150 4,207 17,*630
Premiums on 9500 new shares, £1328 .. 18 958
19°8.. 34,675 4,586 15,483 20,069 14,606 33 564
1909.. 30,785 8,369 20,650 29,019 1,766 35*330
1910.. 36,342 9,118 23,168 32,286 4,056 39^86
Premiums on 5000 new shares, £lOOO 40’386
1911.. 42,006 9,137 23,781 32,918 9,088 49^474
Premiums on 5000 new shares, £970 .. 50*444
1912.. 46,696 12,011 25,639 37,650 9,046 59*490
The published accounts don’t put it quite like that.
They show—“ Funds at end of year, £78,480.” The
conflicting figures can be reconciled this way:—
Shareholders’ capital .. .. ..£15,000
Assurance Fund (inc. premiums on shares) 59*490
Assets written up .. .. .. .. 3 240
Provision for 5 p.c. div. .. .. . [ ’750
Total £78,480
The asset written up consist of Dunedin (M.L.)
head-office premises. The management savs that this
property, bought some years ago at the bargain
counter, is well worth the extra money. That is
quite likely. Still this plan of writing up the book
value of a property bought like that isn’t a good
plan. For one thing, it is just as well to have a
bit up your sleeve in case the value of some other
purchase turns the other way. It opens the door to a
lot of very doubtful practices when a co. inflates its
assets by the too-simple nrocess of deciding that they"
are worth more than they cost, and tacking the
extra figures on to the cash and other possessions.
The co., though it does a little Ordinary life
business, pursues the Industrial policy with most
zeal; and as the fourpence-a-fortnight Industrial
policy is an expensive animal to keep track of, the
costs are appalling. Of £46,696 received from all
sources last year, Ordinary premiums included,
£25,639 went to pay for canvassers’ and collectors’
shoe-leather, and to meet sundry other expenses,
including dividend. Thus of every 20s. received by
way of premiums and interest, 10s. 9d. went in get-
ting the 205., and only 9s. 3d. was available for
insurance. It is almost a tragedy. A few hours ago
this duly unqualified medical practitioner was mak-
ing a post-mortem of the 1912 accounts of the
N.S.W. Miners’ Accident Relief Fund. The total
income was £66,994 and the expenses charged to
the Fund £1534. Add £1250 as the amount prob-
ably paid one way and another by the Mines Depart-
ment; total, £2784, = about 4 p.c. of the income.
That is to say, 9d. in the £ goes in exes, and 19s.
3d. is available for insurance. The whole explana-
tion of the difference between the 9s. 3d. and the
19s. 3d. lies in che fact that the Miners’ Accident
Relief Fund doesn’t have to chase a man either to
rope him into membership or to collect his premiums.
The employer has to do the collecting, and every
employee has to pay. In three eases out of four the
employee probably doesn’t know that he is paying-
9d. is kept back from his fortnightly pay, and that’s
all about it. There never will be cheap Industrial
insurance until this plan is adopted all round.
Meanwhile bricks can’t reasonably be thrown at this
or any other Industrial concern because it does the
business but can’t do it cheaply.
Of the Provident’s assets ( £78,479 net)
£33,914 is in municipal and Harbor Trust deben-
tures, £23,966 in mortgages, £5OOO in Vic. Govern-
ment stock, £5282 in premises, and the balance is
mostly cash and book debts, the latter not excessive.
If the mortgages are all right, the assets are a good
enough lot. The paid capital is £15,000, and share-
holders are liable for another £45,000. Presumably
the £5OOO got in lately has been to give the co. a
better start in tackling Accident business. Policy-
holders appear to be well protected, so far as the
face-value of their policies is concerned. Whether
they can expect much or anything in the way of
profits is quite another matter, in view of the high
expense rate.
F. W. Hughes, Ltd. (Sydney), manufac-
turers of wool-tops, who commenced business (so far
as this co. is concerned) with a deficit of £11,940,
representing goodwill ( £11,566) and preliminary
exes.: —
Written
Profits. Dividends. Off. Deficit.
May, 1909.. £11,940
Dec., 1909.. £17,411 7 p.c. = £4,998 £4OOO 3,527
Reserves.
Dec., 1910.. 18,587 10 „ „ 13,357 1,703
Dec., 1911.. 12,506 6 ~ „ 9,329 4000 880
Dec., 1912.. 17,047 6 ~ ~ 9,899 6000 2,028
This co. was formed to take advantage of a bonus
of £lO,OOO a year offered by the Commonwealth
Government for the production of wool-tops for
export. The Hughes firm had been wool-scouring at
Botany (N.S.W.) for many years; and the co.’s idea
was to carry that business a few steps further. The
bonus was for five years, terminating December 31,
1913 ; last year it was extended for a further two
years. As far as The Bulletin knows there is no
other claimant for the bounty; and as the produc-
tion of tops last year was 2,557,6391 b or
practically all, no doubt, for export—and as the
bounty was Id. per lb., it seems pretty clear that
the co. collected the whole £lO,OOO, or thereabouts,
from the Government. This makes things look
rather precarious. The profit was £17,047 ; from
that it was judged necessary to write off £6OOO
against depreciation of plant and leasehold. That
left £11,047 net; anu if £lO,OOO of that came
by way of a Government bonus, and if that bonus
is terminable at the end of 1915, profits don’t look
too well assured. The foreign demand for the tops
is, no doubt, good enough; but the local producer
has to send the stuff away to foreign markets, where
it has to bump against the product of the cheapest
labor employed anywhere in the business. Aus-
tralia can protect the manufacturer who makes for
the Australian market; it can’t do anything,
except by way of bounty, for the manu-
facturer who makes for the foreign mar-
ket. And whether that bounty is justified de-
pends on two things in particular—-(1) the volume
of labor the industry calls for ; (2) the prospect of
developing other industries. The Commonwealth has
given the co. another couple of years’ grace; but
on neither of the points mentioned was a strong case
made out for a perpietual bonus; and the further
extension of the assistance can’t be relied upon.
Unless the co. has done a good deal better than its
accounts represent, the outlook is, therefore, eJoomy.
The co.’s liabilities total £57,835; on the other
side, stocks are valued at £73,385. Most of the
capital is, of course, in plant and premises.
The Adelaide Co-operative Society :
Divi- Writ-
dend Bonus on ten Re-
Profits. (4 p.c.). Purchases. Off. serves.
Feb., 1905.. £2680 £754 3J p.c. = £1454 £299 £1495
Aug., 1905.. 2399 780 3f ~ ~ 1531 251 1332
Feb., 1906.. 3128 789 3$ „ ~ 1560 523 1588
Aug., 1906.. 3150 808 3$ ~ ~ 1597 423 1910
Feb., 1907.. 2898 845 3| „ „ 1590 282 2091
Aug., 1907.. 3989 877 4J „ „ 1955 573 2675
Feb., 1908.. 4138 935 5 ~ ~ 2385 610 2883
Aug., 1908.. 4737 1007 5 ~ ~ 2790 581 3242
Feb., 1909.. 4255 1052 5 ~ ~ 3003 344 3098
Aug., 1909.. 4994 1103 5 ~ ~ 3182 632 3175
Feb., 1910.. 4483 1179 5 ~ „ 3253 294 2932
Aug., 1910.. 5877 1284 5 „ „ 3658 464 3403
Feb., 1911.. 6225 1425 5 „ ~ 3872 539 3792
Aug., 1911.. 4287 1537 3f „ ~ 3129 522 2891
Feb., 1912.. 6743 1616 5 ~ „ 4372 524 3122
Aug., 1912.. 8091 1652 5 „ „ 4744 865 3952
Feb., 1913.. 6651 1650 5 ~ ~ 4750 510 3693
This quaintly constituted concern, now just upon 45
years old, is launching out considerably in Adelaide;
which means that it is more than ever in need of re-
modelling. Its basis is unbusinesslike and unsafe,
and the accountants who permit it to continue that
way are really taking a very serious responsibility.
Though all but a few thousand pounds of its assets
are represented by stock and other lines that must
take time to realise, it has no fixed capital whatever.
It trades on “members’ capital” (at present £91,685)
and “members’ loans” ( £11,400) ; and the whole
lot can be withdrawn on very short notice. If it
could be repaid in potatoes or grindstones or shop
fittings, at the management’s discretion, well and
good ; but while the members (the quaint society
won’t own up to such things as shareholders) can
call on the management to pay up in cash, the man-
agement can’t call on the members or anybody else
to buy for cash; and when for any reason (invasion
or epidemic or bank panic or Judgment Day or any
old thing) an unusual number of people want to
withdraw and the sales are unusually small (the
two things are very likely to happen simultaneously),
there’s going to be a smash.
Some of the figures in the last line in the table
can only be guessed at. Various things have been
assumed —(1) that directors’ fees (the silly society
doesn’t call them directors —they are “members of
the committee”) and income tax will absorb £350;
(2) that the “interest” (that is, the dividend) will call
for £1650; (3) that the “dividend” (which is the
bonus on purchases in the nlain English which the
stunid co. tries never to use) will call for £4750. It
will be six months before we shall know what these
appropriations really call for.
* . * * *
The Metropolitan, Mutual Perman-
ent Building and Investment Association, Ltd.
(Sydney), from the year when £103,898 of capital
was written off on account of the re-valuation of
securities: —
Gross Loss on Net
Dec., Profit. Sales. Profit. Dividends. Reserves.
1901.. £1597 £5OO £1097 Nil £21,811
1902.. 538 385 153 Nil 21,964
Forfeited capital, £lB .. .. 21,982
1903.. 2223 591 1632 Nil 23,614
1904.. 2019 1041 978 Nil 24,592
Written off. £2500 .. .. 22 092
1905.. 1217 743 474 Nil 22,566
1906.. 1398 98 1300 Nil 23,866
Written off, £447 .. .. 23,419
1907.. 1152 291 861 Nil 24,280
1908.. 1660 970 690 5 p.c. =£2loB 22,862
Written off, £247 .. .. 22,615
1909.. 1541 619 922 3ip.c.= 1404 22,133
1910.. 2785 581 2204 5f „ ~ 2458 21,879
Written off, £6957 .. .. 14,922
1911.. 5013 15 4998 13Jp.c.= 5618 14,302
1912.. 4822 104 4718 9£ ~ 3863 15,157
As the sorrowful remark laid on top of the
table suggests, the co. was caught in the backwash
of Sydney’s last land boom, and for many years
thereafter it felt too sad to do anything beyond re-
moving the dead horse from the premises. Though
it wrote off more than two-thirds of its capital, it
didn’t write off any too much; and a steady loss on
sales has been made as a bit here and a bit there
has been got rid of. But the Glebe estate (lease-
hold) has stood to the co., and, after providing *
amortisation, a profit has been shown sufficient
ate years to give a very fair dividend on thewrit
ten-down capital. Having got rid of its u"u-,'TT lt '
and with cash accumulating from the sale of
estates on time-payment, the co. now goes bark m d - ry
old ioan business. Its resources are not very
still they are large enough to make a start wffn’
and thus get a borrowing connection together h ’
are 10 years’ figures:- 8 er ' “ ere
Liabilities.
1902. 1907. 1910. 19U Iqi „
Capital . . £42,095 £42,099 £42,138 £42 138 £49 7,' 0
Debentures 50,516 20,229 Nil Nil v’-.
Other debts 50,642 51,748 6,603 1,217
Assets.
Advances* 31,907 19,364 6,786 11 575 in,,.
Estates *
etc. ..’128,390 97,287 56,051 45,462 43 inn
Cash, etc. 5,309 22,746 4,584 7 587 q’.ii
including defaulters’ mortgages. ’ '
Of the “estates, etc.,’’ Glebe represents £,3fi Ann
and Waterloo £6725. The York (country) estate
and the suburban holdings have at length
—all, at least, except one lot valued at £75 These
were for years the millstone round the co’s nenk
Other people are wearing the ornament now and
that seems about a fair thing. Having got rid of
the burden, the co. might reasonably ask itself
whether it doesn’t think itself a bit of an ass to
pay a dividend of as much as 9 1-6 p.c., in view of
(1) the fact that its resources are so small, and (91
the other fact that it is again pursuing the loan-on
mortgage business.
* * * *
Charles Anderson and Co., utd. (Syd-
ney).—This co. was formed 10 years ago to take over
the business of the firm that imported the six hat-
ters ; but the public became interested in the con-
cern only recently. The paid capital is £75 000
and down to 12 months ago £15,000 of that’was
represented by goodwill. Total unappropriated
profits were then £7729 ; and £7OOO of that
amount was used to write goodwill down to £BOOO
Net profits for the past year were £10,620- the
dividend (10 p.c.) absorbs £7500; and £3OOO is
written off goodwill. The position, therefore, is now
that there is £5OOO of a paper asset and £849 of a
reserve. There is thus £4151 still to be provided
out of profits before the capital is fully represented
by tangible assets. On December 31 the liabilities
were £13,185; there is a bank-debenture debt of
£20,000, but the current account was in credit
£21,455. Other assets include freehold premises
£22,784; plant, etc., £20,601; stock, £25,458:
book debts, £18,196. A charge is made against
profits to provide for depreciation ; but the size of
the allowance isn’t disclosed. Assuming that it is
a fair thing, and that it has been a fair thing all
along, the position is sound. The net profit shown
last year was at the rate of 14 p.c., and allowed of
a lay-by of £3120 ; and though the tendency of costs
is upwards, while the tendency of sales will for a
while be downwards, if it isn’t so already, the year’s
results may be regarded as satisfactory. Even if
10 p.c. can’t be sustained, shareholders at least have
the satisfaction of knowing that goodwill is a small
item now, and the assets generally are a substantial
lot. And, after all, there’s more comfort in that
than there is in holding something in a co. which,
though it pays 15 p.c. to-day, isn’t able to show
more than Bs. or 10s. in the £ of your capital.
Moreover, the hatterv business is going to last, and
Australians are going to buy more and more of their
crowns from Australian factories ; and, what is impor-
tant in regard to probable competition, this isn’t the
sort of business that is liable to be started by anv
casual person with a few pounds and no other job
on hand.
* * * *
Warwick Butter and Dairying Co
(Queensland), which began with a deficit of £329
preliminary exes.:—
Bonus to Written D°-
June, Loss. Dividend. Clients. Off. ficit
1903 .. £lOl Nil £43"
1904 . . 273 Nil 70°
Profit.
1905 .. 73 Nil 630
Reservo?
1906 .. 2399 8 p.c. = £233 £546 £823 16“
1907 . . 1830 8 .. „ 376 898 72
Forfeited capital, £24 .. 74'
1908 . . 2305 8 p.c. = 547 670 769 1066
1909 . . 2381 6 „ ~ 442 578 806 1621
1910 .. 4009 8 „ „ 595 1261 1107 2667
1911 . . 3163 6 „ „ 451 1209 1540 2630
Share premiums, £328 .. 2958
1912 . . 3787 6 p.c. = 609 2439 579 3118
Dec., Share premiums, £36 .. 3154
1912 .. 2442 5596
Dividends and bonus and other appropriations are,
as usual, held over till the end of the
January-June half-year. The Texas branch,
which was opened in March, 1912, fell into
a state of coma towards the end of April from
lack of nourishment, but revived in September, and
the loss is shown as £139. The directors promise
better results in future. The other two factories, at
Warwick and Allora, both show increased figures.
The output of butter for the six months to June,
1912, was 367 tons; for the June-Dee. half-year,, 500
tons. The first half of the year had a taste of the
drought which hasn’t been abolished from the Aus-
tralian menu, though a lot of people seem to think
it has. Liabilities (including £9161 due to sup-
pliers on Dec. account) total £15,105. Liqu’d
assets total £14,633; these include bank deposits
and cash, £6408; stock and amounts due from
agents for Dec. sales, £8225. There’s not much
need for nervous troubles there.
* * * *
Another of the products of the recent
company-floating boom is in trouble. The Com-
monwealth Brass and Metal Foundries, Ltd.
(Sydney), has a capital of £26,950, of which £23,021
is paid; and no less than £12,716 was sucked up
for certain patent rights. Add to that paper asset
£1348 for preliminary exes. ; total froth, £14,064,
plus probably something spent on altering the co. s
business premises. To the end of November last a
loss of £998 was shown on the working of the
patents, which were alleged to be worth £12,716.
The shareholders didn’t like the look of. things, so
they asked the directors to see them again in three
months’ time. As the accounts for that period show
a further loss of £434 on trading, without anv
allowance for depreciation, shareholders are invited
to meet at the end of this month to vote a bonus
to the vendors or something. The co. has already
accumulated an overdraft of £llO9, and owes £1434
on other accounts, and the creditors are probably
not as affable as could be wished.
Stanthorpe Tin, Ltd., has had its first
clean-up, and feels like giving three cheers for it-
self. The property is in Queensland, but is as near
N. S. Wales as it can get; its southern line runs
along the border. Its original area was 34 acres,
and it holds rights over a much larger area of ad-
joining country. The wash is along a creek, and
there is about Bft. or 10ft. of dirt;. as far as can
be told from the first run and plentiful samplings,
the average should be about 141 b. to the yard, and
Bd. should pay all costs, leaving about Is. for pront.
Logan Jack, who reported on the area when the co.
was formed in Sydney, put the average of the ground
to be dredged at 9ft. and the value at 21b., ffH'no
£44,000 worth of tin (valuing black tin at £IOU
on the spot) ; and this didn’t take into account any
of the rich wash-dirt that may have been left oy
the people who turned most of the ground over
years ago. The additional areas are also undoubted!'
tin-bearing, and at present prices of the m ® ta .
highly payable. The co. is in 1200 shares of £iu
each, of which 1100 have been issued; and, witn
ordinary luck, close up to half of the capital should
come back in the first 12 months’ work. The wate
supply is the thing most likely to upset this calcu-
lation.


GOOD
Dividends
Interest
INVESTMENTS that embody all the elements
necessary to Soundness and Productiveness.
Unless we are assured, after the most searching
and thorough investigation, of the earning capac-
ity of every investment, business organisation and
enterprise brought to us —we do not handle it.
CONSULT US on any sound, healthy business
proposition you may have. We will afford you
the fullest information we have at our disposal.
DEPARTMENTS: Promotion of Industries, Pub-
lic Companies, Trust Estates, Security Depart-
ment, Secretarial Dept., Real Estate, Local and
Foreign Agencies, etc.
Authorised Capital £500,000.
J. Earle Hermann Ltd.,
Sydney, Melbourne and London.
Head Office— Third Floor, Yaralla
Chambers, 109 Pitt St., Sydney.
London Office: 199 Winchester House,
Old Broad Street, E.C.
h
Established 34 Years.
THE Trustees, Executors
and Agency Co., ltd.,
412 Collins St., Melbourne.
The Company acts as
EXECUTOR, TRUSTEE,
ADMINISTRATOR, AGENT.
Estates Administered Exceed £25,000,000.
Please call or write for Pamphlet.
JAS. BORROWMAN, General Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Manager.
A great mistake, when erecting new works or re-
arranging old ones, is often made in constructing the
building and installing machinery ere looking round
for means of transport of the raw material, half-
manufactured and finished goods. Messrs. Adolf
Bleichert and Co., of London, have issued various
catalogues and leaflets, illustrating and describing a
few of the many transport systems and plants which
they have supplied, and which show the solution of
the transport question and the advantages of em-
ploying such appliances. W. and J. Lempriere,
Melbourne and Sydney, are the Australian representa-
tives, and would be pleased to hear from those in-
terested. A specially trained engineer is retained to
consult and advise.*
Mine managers and engineers contemplating Re-
inforced Concrete construction should write for par-
ticulars of the Indented Steel Bar, which gives the
greatest bond, and is the strongest and cheapest re-
inforcement on the market. Used by the N. S.
Wales and Queensland railways for bridges, by the
Sydney Water and Sewerage Board for elevated re-
servoirs, by the N. S. Wales Government Architect,
and by all the leading architects. Should guaranteed
designs be required for concrete structures, our ex-
pert will be. pleased to furnish plans and descrip-
tions. Apply, Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.*
In all smithing work high-class iron can be more
safely manipulated at varying temperatures than
steel or ordinary iron. It is for this reason that
Best Yorkshire Farnley Iron is preferred by engi-
neers, where toughness, great strength and close
grain are needed. Whatever the specification, Iron
of the Farnley type does not vary, but is simply the
best that can be produced from what is really
wrought iron. “Farnley” Bars of all sections sup-
plied from local stock bv Sole Agents of the Farnley
Iron Comp., Ltd. Bell's Asbestos, Ltd., 315 Kent
Street, Sydney.*
From June to September the Bacchus Marsh Shire
Council (Vic.) crushed and spread 3000 cub. yards
of road metal, at an average cost of 2s. 6d. per cub.
yard, and the cost of the spalls per cub. yard aver-
aged 2s. 4d., making a total cost of 4s. lOd. per cub.
yard, broken and spread. Their last contract under
the handbreaking system amounted to 6s. 3d. per
cub. yard stacked on the roadside, and spreading Is. ;
total, 7s. 3d,, as against 4s. lOd.— a saving of Zs. sd.
per cub. yard. This result was obtained by using a
Bigelow 16in. x 9in. Patent Stonecrusher, and the
Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
manufacturers of these breakers.* [2
Extract from Financier, dated London, September
2, 1911: “The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society is well recognised as an institution which
typifies the enterprise and energy of the land of its
birth, and not only in Australasia, but in Great
Britain and South Africa it has proved itself one
of the most progressive of the great Life Offices.”*
PIONEER WOOD PIPE may be used wherever
any kind of liquid has to be carried. Made in sizes
from 3in. upwards, it can be fitted to existing mains,
and may be tapped under pressure by unskilled
labor. The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Balmain
(N.S.W.), and Footscray (Vic.).*
For all situations where water is scarce, Deane and
Beale’s consummate Evaporative Condensers are
efficient and economical for condensing exhaust
steam, and show a saving in fuel and water consump-
tion from 30 to 50 p.c. See p. 31. Australian
representatives: Haes and Eggers, Ltd., 163 Clarence
Street, Sydney.*
Harringtons Ltd. are now in a position to quote
the lowest fees for all kinds of assay, analytical and
metallurgical work. Expert advice on ore treatment,
smelting, bullion, refining, etc. This firm have now
a most up-to-date and completely fitted laboratory,
directed by a first-class analyst from Johnson and
Sons, London, assayers to the Bank of England,
H.M. Mint, The Council of India, etc. Any work of
the above nature entrusted to this reliable firm of
photographic manufacturers will receive immediate
and prompt attention. For full particulars and
prices apply to Harringtons, Ltd., 380 George Street,
Sydney.*
J. W. STYLES & SON, Machinery Auctioneer,
Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 361 Collins
Street (main entrance), Melbourne. (J. W. Styles,
24 years expert salesman.)*
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,,
for information. Address, 163 King Street, Syd-
ney.* [2
Mephan Ferguson Proprietary Limited, engineers;,
etc., of Melbourne, having completed their contracts,
amounting to about £150,000, for the manufacture-
and supply of Lockingbar steel pipes, for Brisbane
Water and Sewerage Board, are now removing all'
machinery to Melbourne works to manufacture similar-
pipes for the new O’Shannessy water scheme for Mel-
bourne water supply, the cost of which will be over
£lOO,OOO. The work is to be completed within 12
months.*
Messrs. Babcock & Wilcox, Ltd., have received
the order for the supply of all the steam generating
plant and accessories for the electrification of the
Victorian Government Railways. The acceptance of
this firm’s tender was strongly recommended by Mr.
Merz, the English expert. The contract amounts to
£258,000.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
Assayers, Mine Managers and Prospectors write
to H. B. Silberberg and Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, and at Melbourne, for particulars concerning
mining requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s
disc pulverisers to 200 mesh ; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospector’s balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles: chemicals; etc.*
NOBEL-
GLASGOW
EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Philip Charley s blue metal deposit at
Greystanes, Prospect Hill (N.S.W.), goes into a
limited co. of £lOO,OOO in £1 shares. There are 30,000
contributing at ss. on application and ss. on allot-
ment, with the balance in half-crown calls, 30,000
are held in reserve, and 40,000 fully-paid go to the
vendors, who hand over the freehold, subject to an
existing 4$ p.c. mortgage of £6500. Contributing
shareholders are to hold the majority of the voting
power. Directors are Philip Charley, J. M. Purves
and W. R. Gawne, a well-known Sydney builder.
The quarry is 18 miles from Svdney,' and 2$ miles
from the western line, freight being Is. lOd. a ton, as
against 2s. lid. from Kiama. The 454 acres of the
property are stated to have proved above railway level
80 million tons of intrusive basaltic rock. Cost of
plant and railway is put at £20,000, and estimated
cost of the product, landed in Sydney, is ss. Oid.,
giving a profit of 3s. 6d. a ton. The surface income
of the estate from cultivation and house rents is
£7OO.
Zeb Lane’s will has been proved for
£124,000. The assets consisted chiefly of real
estate and £lOO,OOO in British Consols. The story
of how the latter sum got there forms one of the
romances of mining. Soon after Zeb left Broken Hill
because he was offered only the assistant manager-
ship of the B. H. Proprietary, and not the general
management in succession to John Howell, he landed
in Hannan’s (Westralia). That was about the time
when George Brookland was parcelling out the
Golden Mile in pup companies of very low doggie
values. Zebina was sent to London to float the
Great Boulder Proprietary, which he did with the
aid of Colonel North, the nitrate man, and George
Inglis, his partner. The latter was a cousin of the
late “Tiger” Inglis, of Sydney. The Great Boulder
float was really a frost. It was so cold that pro-
moters had to subsist on blubber and unsaleable
scrip for some time afterwards. Some of the state-
ments in the prospectus were about as substantial
as thin air; in fact, they were made of the same
stuff as dreams. Nobody made much money out of
the Boulder float, and several others were very flat
in London when A. G. Holroyd told the world the
truth about the telluride in the Hannan’s ores. Then
began the boom from which Holroyd should have
made the biggest fortune, if brn’ny men were always
properly rewarded in this world. Zeb Lane had met
Barney Barnato and his nephews, Woolf and Solly
Joel, in London, during his great Boulder pilgrimage,
and to them he sent the Great Boulder Perseverance
for flotation. By the time the documents reached
London the speculative public was “on the feed,”
and ready to swallow anything from Westralia. The
Barnato group rose at the Perseverance minnow with
trout-like rapidity, and in three da's the deed was
done. The Barnatos sold 100,000 Boulder Persever-
ance £1 shares at £3 10s. to a group of S’African
mining dealers, gave Zeb Lane £lOO,OOO for him-
self, paid £50,000 to the other Australians inter-
ested, and kept £lOO,OOO for themselves. The shares
went to £6 10s. in the market, and Frank Gardiner
and Zeb Lane stuffed Johnnie Crapaud, of Paris,
with Boulder Perseverance scrip until he had to stop
eating snails and frogs to make room inside for cer-
tificates. Zeb’s £lOO,OOO went into 2$ p.c. Consols,
where his two sons—Alex., ex-surveyor on the Great
Boulder mine, and Gordon —will find it snug and
intact when they go to draw it this month.
* » * *
Since 1863 New South Wales has pro-
produced minerals worth, in the aggregate,
£229,519,970. Expressed in sterling, coal has
given 69, silver-lead-zinc 60, and gold 59 millions.
For 10 years, to December, 1912, the production of
minerals was £84,772,124. The most important ad-
vance during the forthcoming 10 years will probably
be in iron production. It is customary to carry iron
ore long distances. The iron deposits in Cuba and
Lapland are instances. Ore from Cuba is carried
1200 miles by sea and 375 miles by land.
The Federal Government is alive to the
fact that the best hopes of Northern Territory de-
velopment lie, for the present, in its mining possi-
bilities. On the advice of Dr. Gilruth, the Govern-
ment will add 20s. to every £ that the syndicate
puts into the copper show at Coronet Hill. Gilruth
reckons that the prospectus is the most truthful
and the reports are the most promising of any min-
ing show he ever heard of. Anyway, its political
possibilities are worth the bit of money the Govern-
ment will have to contribute to the testing of the
proposition.
* * * *
The revival in Radium Hill shares has
been helped along by the improved extraction from
concentrates treated at the Woolwich works, near
Sydney. These concentrates are highly magnetic,
and their value depends on the quality of carnotite
or uranium ore associated with the iron. Dense iron
ore doesn’t admit of a high degree of concentration,
consequently the concentrates contain only about
three times the radium existing in the crude
material. A betterment of this condition is being
sought after. The managing-director (T. D. Jones)
is on his way to England, to ascertain the capacity
of the market for radium. Some time since, auth-
ority was obtained from the shareholders to give an
option over the property ; but if the mine is all that
is claimed, it would be a national loss to have it
“engineered” by foreign capitalists, who would pro-
bably export the ore or concentrates to Europe.
“Bar None”: Kalgoorlie has scarcely a
sound tooth left in its golden head. Ivanhoe is still
probably the best, but the advent of graphitic slate
has knocked the remnants of its main shoot to
smithereens in the bottom level at 2570 ft. This
slate has also made its presence felt in the two
levels above, but there are some patches of good ore
showing at those two points. At 2570 ft. there is
absolutely none. It is cheering to know, however,
that the" best geological advice the world can give
has been obtained by the co., and it is to the e^
that the slate will pass away in depth and the shoot
become solid and valuable again. An unexpected
good stretch of payable ore has lately been opened
up south in the three bottom levels on the Middle
lode. The stone is narrow, but the length (600 ft.
or so) is not bad. On appearances there is no reason
why the co. shouldn’t pay 15s. a year in divs. for
a good while and keep its end up as a speculation at
anywhere in the vicinity of 60s. a share. As to
Great Boulder: This co. treated 45,746 tons more
than it developed in 1912, and this year it will
probably do about the same. In 1914 the task of
finding new ore in the higher levels to swell the re-
serves and mask the true position will probably be-
come verv hard, and unless the age of miracles is
not dead' the decrease in the estimate at the end of
that year will be considerable. Below 2500 ft. the
payable ore awaiting development and extraction _is
next to nothing. Present dividends can be main-
tained this year, but not much longer. Golden
Horseshoe: Despite “good developments” at 2650 ft.
and beyond, the shares stand at a much higher figure
than they deserve. Lateral extensions are wanted
to make these developments worth their salt, and
there is very little chances of getting those exten-
sions. Then, again, the co. has a heavy debenture
liability and interest to face, as well as a claim for
£lOO,OOO made by the London and Hamburg Gold
Recovery Co. for alleged infringement of the Diehl
patents. The prospect of shareholders getting another
dividend is consequently still remote. Associated
Northern : This co.’s Kalgoorlie lease may snuff out
at any time. The profit announced last month was
fairly substantial, but it represented a quarter’s ac-
cumulations and scrapings. The Ora Banda show
is shaping better than a lot of people suppose, and
indications point strongly to the rich shoot recently
opened up at the No. 4 level living down. At pre-
sent there are about two years' supplies of oxidised
ore in s : ght, and the profit should easily amount to
£160,000. Winzing is about to be started at the
No. 4 level, and the market is now hazarding on
the result of this work. The shaft is expected to be
down and the shoot proved by crosscut at the No. 5
level by the end of May. Sons of Gwalia: If any-
thing, reserves are better now than they were 12
months ago, and the management is confident of
maintaining the present quarterly shilling dividend
without exertion. So far, lengths of payable ore,
aggregating 500 ft., have been exposed at the bottom
(No. 19) ievel, and if the mine is as good as the
assay plans lead visitors to believe, the shares have
no business standing at the present low price. There
may, however, be some cupboarded skeleton that
escaped this writer’s notice. Bullfinch: This concern
has just announced a profit of £15,536 on its first
clean-up, and an additional £9OOO is for the time
being locked up in the plant. Until the capacity of
the mill is enlarged from 4500 to 6000 tons a month,
the grade of ore treated will, as in the present ease,
be higher than the real average of the mine.
* * * *
Mount Morgan, in spite of its millions of
tons of ore, wasn’t finding it easy to feed its fur-
naces with the metal they called for, and a good
underground man was needed. It has got him in
A. A. Boyd, who for years had charge of the mining
work for the Broken Hill Prop.
Bourke’s Hill, a Melbourne-owned tin show
near Emmaville (N S.W.), feels better than at any
previous time in its history, and shareholders have
begun to taste regular monthly dividends of 6d. a
share. The original ground couldn’t have done it;
but new blocks and a general readjustment of plant
have saved the situation, and now a new supplemen-
tary water supply from the Severn promises to save
the co. from the dreary waits it has had to suffer
heretofore. Six months’ working account to Feb.
28 showed a profit of £4984, which was more than
enough to give shareholders 2s. a share; and the
shares are only Bs. 6d. paid altogether. The co. is
now in a strong financial position, and the outlook
for the two plants is rosy.
There is a heap of market and a speck of
gold about North Ajax, Daylesford (Vic.) at the
moment; so it doesn’t do for the punter to swallow
all he is told. Mining pluck is shown in the way
shaft-sinking is being pushed ahead, but the deduc-
tions drawn from the odd makes of quartz alighted
on between the sinks show fine imagination. Flat
makes and “verticals” in a shaft carrying down to
600 ft. anywhere else might mean a pot, but at
Daylesford, work has to be done to convince those
who know that the North Ajax carries the right
quantity of gold.
Duke and Main Leads, Maryborough
(Vic.), resumes dividends. The co. is the sole sur-
vivor of the better days. Since the Duke and Main
leads gave out, the credit of the Duke lead has had
to be kept up by the Duke Consols, and as it man-
aged to hit a good patch of wash opposite its shaft
at the first try, it kept on the dividend list. Then,
with Burnt Creek doing badly, it was feared that
as the Consols got farther down the gutter and had
to cry off, it, too, would soon be in trouble. The
co. is skirmishing close to the border line of profits
even now. No mine in Victoria has managed to do
more than pay its way when it had to cut up much
wash, as the Consols is doing.
Though Tewksbury turned the S’African
dredging areas down after J. C. Watson had done some
work on them, and though the Victorian could hear of
nothing else suitable in that country, Alfred Lewis,
of Johannesburg, got a few Melbourne people inter-
ested in the business when he was in Australia
in January. Aikman, McWhae and Spowers had
various claims put under offer, and W. T. Anderson
was sent over to see what they were stuffed with.
The Bulletin gets word from Jo’burg that Ander-
son will report that they are not stuffed with divi-
dends. Gold up to 2s. per yard can be found ; but
the auriferous country is all, or nearly all, bouldery,
and cheap bucket-dredging is out of the question.
Of three areas he thinks well enough to suggest that
suction pumps might pay. There may be suitable
ground for bucket work in Rhodesia; outside that
State, S’Africa in this matter looks like a blank.
* * * *
London and Hamburg Co.’s long-pending
action against Golden Horseshoe for alleged infringe-
ment of the Diehl process, is set down for a pre-
liminary hearing in Perth this month. About
£90,000 is claimed. Both sides have had the most
expensive London legal advice, and as one is sure
of success and the other is certain of winning in
the long run, costs will be pretty high before the
ease is finally decided by the Privy Council.
Edna May (W.A.) has bought a 10-head
mill, etc., for' £5OOO, and hopes to have it running
within nine weeks of signing the contract. To
start with, the crushed ore will be passed through
a fine screen and the residues allowed to accumulate
until experiments show what is the best type of
treatment plant to install. Shaft-sinking is in pro-
gress, but owing to sloppy ground progress is slow.
Golden Ridge (W.A.) has abandoned its
option on the Haddon Consols after a few weeks’
work. Before the option was taken, the reef was
reported to be 6ft. wide in the bottom, and the fact
that 423 tons from the 50ft. level had yielded £990
over the plates,- with 40s. per ton in the residues,
was also placed to the credit of the show. Evi-
dently the option holder found some spots on its
reputation and cleared.
Tindal’s (W.A.) has got a new manager,
and is to be unwatered and sampled without delay.
To date the co. has obtained £lOO,OOO, or there-
abouts, from the treatment of sdwt. ore, but the
whole of this, as well as a lot more put up by share-
holders, has been mopped up in plant, development
and indifferent management. The newly-acquired
Perseverance section of the property is also credited
with a fairly big production, but, as in the case of
Tindal’s, the now defunct co. which got it. never
paid a pennv in dividends, and died in debt. A
good deal of money is required to properly work
these two shows, and as the drawbacks to Coolgardie
mining have always been hard country rock, patchy
values and short, rapidly dipping shoots, which mean
more and more dead work at each level to reach
payable ore, shareholders had better look before they
leap. At any rate, expert, and not any sort of
opinion, is needed before more capital is subscribed.
“Bar None” : Unbelievers doubt the genu-
ineness of the Bullfinch return, and, as a want of
confidence of the accuracy of official figures, shares
have been banged by the bears. Some question the
ability of the eo. to maintain returns, others ridi-
cule the possibility of £9OOO being absorbed by the
10-head mill and slimes plant installed on the mine. As
stated in B. 27/3/’l3, unless the assay is a plain lie,
the co. should have no difficulty in keeping its word
as regards output and profits. As for the gold in
the plant, the ore is one that requires a lot of solu-
tions, and that means plenty of zinc boxes and a
good deal of gold-laden slimes. Managing-director
Doolette stated, at the time the return was made
public, that only sufficient gold had been taken from
the plant to allow for an average yield of £3 per
ton.
Last year Oroya Links (W.A.) stated
that an estimate of ore in reserve could only be made
in the Eclipse lease—the most important of its
holdings ; and this year it says the same. Owing to
numerous breaks and erratic occurrence of values, the
management does not feel inclined to take too much
for granted, but thinks that stoping operations will
disclose a much larger tonnage, and, in some in-
stances, better grade stuff than is figured on. Mean-
time, ore in sight is set down at 126,473 tons,
worth 255. 4d. per ton, as against 99,770 tons, valued
at 265. 4d. 12 months ago. Mention is also made
of 60,000 tons of probable payable ore, which are not
yet blocked out. The ore sent to the mill in 1912
amounted to 60,555 tons, valued at 275. Id. per
ton, and 87,258 tons, worth 255. 6d. per ton, were
developed.
Apparently the position at Marvel Loch
(W.A.) is hopeless. A visiting director estimates a
probable ore reserve of 13,000 tons, which, he says,
should pay mining and treatment expenses. He
recommends further development on the off chance
of finding more ore. But where is the money to
come from ; and what is the use of digging out ore
which is more likely than not to show a loss on
mining and treatment, and leave the co. to foot the
bill for administration, expenditure, etc., as well?
Some cash will certainly be needed to work the
option just taken over the Comet lease, and perhaps
it might be as well if the co. thought things
over before bothering any further with old properties
while it has a new orie on hand. To date, latter
has crushed 1000 tons for, approximately, £lO,OOO.
But the fact that it is on offer for £3OOO seems to
indicate that there is either a flaw in its prospects
or that the owners have no idea of its real worth.
* * * *
Frank Powell has taken an option over
the Great Victoria (W.A.) on behalf of himself and
a few Melbourne followers. The idea prevails in
some quarters that the Great Boulder made a bloomer
in turning this show down, and unless Powell and
his friends change their minds in the meantime,
about £lOOO will shortly be spent in proving
whether it did or not.
W. J. Loring turned up in the West the
other day from Burma, and is now touring the back
countrv with Klug and McLeod. Dr. McLaren, whom
Loring' left behind at Mandalay to report on the
prehistoric lead and silver mines in which the Lake
View Co. has dropped a pile of money to date, is
expected to arrive in Australia this month. Dr.
Diehl, inventor of the Diehl wet crushing bromo
cyanide process, is also heading in this direction.
At Charters Towers (Queensland) the
Brilliant mine crushed 126 tons for £633, from the
workings below 1596 ft. vertical. The deepest section
of the reef has been prospected east of
the new Brilliant Freehold’s boundary, where
the winze, after passing through a blank,
met with better prospects. The Stockholm
mine, which has stood to the Brilliant so long and
helped to pav for an extensive course of prospecting
on the old Brilliant P.C. lease, hasn’t been crushing
so well recently. It is a narrow shoot and somewhat
patchy. The 'Brilliant Extended made a profit of
£233 last month. These are very small potatoes for
a quarter-million co., but the Extended may be con-
gratulated on giving results in such a clear and
straightforward fashion. The workings are becoming
extensive, and extend east and west of the deepest
underlay shaft on the field. For the month, 2030
tons of stone were crushed for £3845, and 1200 tons
cyanided for £526.
* * * *
Mount Elliott (Queensland) has about
100 men employed in the parent mine, the most im-
portant work being the proving of the deeps below
No. 5 level. Elliott isn’t boring with diamond drill
so much as it used to do, or if it is, results are not
given forth as regularly. It has produced some
15 000 tons of copper with its present plant since
September, 1910. The first fiscal year gave 5466
tons of copper, the second 5286 tons, and the balance
(4406 tons) was produced in eight months, following
.Tune 30, 1912. the 121,000 and odd tons taken out
has averaged over 12 p.c. copper. But what about
the 100.000 and odd thousand tons of rather uncer-
tain quality left in the mine?
Mammoth Copper (Q.), referred to last
week, was originally held by John Moffat, the
veteran who has had a finger in so many North
Queensland mining pies. He worked the properties
now known as the Clansman and the Chieftain, and
got out 2000 tons of ore that went 22 p.c. copper
and lOdwt. gold. But in considering that value, it
is just as well to remember that as he was sending
the ore by team over the bad track to Mungana, he
probably did some picking. A wave of depression
came along about that time, and Moffat, with his
hands full, threw up the leases. A few gougers
kept at work on other blocks, and Macdonald, look-
ing for a mine for his Glasgow backers, picked some
of the areas up for a trifle, or pegged them out
when they were abandoned. This explains the small
capitalisation of the co., which is one of the good
features of the proposition. Richard Shepherd, who
put up the Mount Morgan copper smelters, was sub-
sequently called in to build a water-jacket furnace,
and that is a guarantee that that part of the outfit,
at any rate, has been attended to by a workman
who knows his job. On appearances Mammoth isn t
a big mine; but a co. with a modest capital of
under £60,000 should make respectable dividends
from it, if the management is right.
* * *
For six months to February 28 the Bourkes
Hill Tin Sluicing Co., Emmaville (N.S.W.), made a
profit of £4984, and paid two dividends of 6d. each;
total, £2250. Helping to produce this result,
Whittle’s Block gave 42 tons 7cwt. of black tin, the
average yield being 1.9371 b. per < cubic yard Mac-
kinnon’s block gave 26 tons 16cwt. of black tin, and
the average pans out 1.3541 b. per cubic yard.
Costs were a trifle over Bd. per cubic yard (8.025 d.
per yard). If sluicing with both plants yields from
20 tons to 25 tons of black tin for six weeks work,
as expected, a dividend should drop in next month.
One could be paid in April, but the directors desire
to create a reserve fund.
* * *
For the first three months of this year 17
mines at Charters Towers crushed 20,815 tons for
£66,497, averaging £3 3s. lOd. per ton. Brilliant
Extended still produces the largest quantity of stone.
Its return for the quarter was 5730 tons for
£l4 135, but profits are small. Brilliant Deeps
has the highest share-market value, but its
return of £7285 from 1568 tons hardly holds up
its reputation as a great mine. The fact is the
Rrilliant Deeps is only partly developed on the foot-
wall reef and the hanging-wall shoot of stone hasn t
been touched below No. 3 level except the sinking
of a winze, which has a good prospect at the
bottom. The haulage shaft has to go down another
lift to No. 6 level, and No. 5 level lias to be driven
to the boundary. How far that will be depends on
the course of the reef, but Chairman Millican thinks
it will be some 400 ft.
„ * * *
Lloyd copper, Burraga (N.S.W.), is rais
ing 5 p.c. copper and concentrating the stuff in the
ordinary way to a 14 p.c. concentrate. Metal losses
are fairly heavy, and when they are all taken into
account the extraction shrinks to an average of from
3 p.c. to 3i p.c. copper. For a fortnight 1369 tons
of crudes returned 270 tons of 14 p.c. concentrates,
in addition to which 113 tons of picked ore (13.8
p.c.) was obtained. Concentrates, ore and slag
are smelted with wood fuel to produce a matte con-
taining 64 p.c. copper, 7.2dwt. gold, and 16oz. sil-
ver, which is sent to other works to be refined. The
cost of producing matte, and its subsequent treatment,
will make the cost of producing copper rather high.
Lloyd’s best hope is a good development within the
mine.


CHARLES
Keiwiecks
Vintage 1906 |
ounmoiE
fiE PLUS ULTRA
mnr
»»HW&
cv
*U*MEE
- -
FARMER'S
SYDNEY
1 SPEC (AL
THEATPE DlhriED
EVCPY FPIDAY EVEniMO
TABLE D'nOTE 4/s
fUTSAIHE-CENTRAL PITT 5T DOORS
ELEVATOR A> FIFTH FLOOR
BUCHANAN’S
Black (& White
rj>
■ M 7 !
trmi
m
*&ee~
A GRAND SPIRIT
“ Black & White ” is indeed a “ grand spirit.”
Matured for years in Scotland before shipment.
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, April 21, 1913.
My Dear Arini, —
Norfolk Island, the Sleeping Beauty of the
Pacific, has been suddenly awakened by a
chaste official kiss from Governor Strick-
land. His Ex. has also put his finger on a
weak place which the late Governor Rawson
discovered when he rolled down to the
Isle of Pines in a warboat. It is alleged that
the breezy old Sea Dog soon saw that the
office of Deputy Administrator was a sine-
cure. This made him bark consider-
ably. For the nominal duties per-
formed by that mighty official, there
was no regular pay, though an occasional
“soother,” which is Yiddish for a tip or
bonus, went into the Deputy’s august
breeches-pocket.
An apparently truthful person says that
Rawson hoped the resignation of the D.A,
would relieve the Circumlocution Office posi-
tion. The document never came. When
Governor Strickland vot a grip of the red-
tape serpent he dragged it off by the tail.
It has probably died of lack of nourishment
in the tireless Strickland’s wastepaper-basket.
Mr. M. V. Murphy is said, also by a com-
petent,_ or not excessively incompetent,
authority to have done the actual adminis-
trative work of Norfolk Island for several
years. This detail evidently rose to the
surface when Governor Strickland peered
into the red-tape tangle. He promptly con-
sidered Murphy, of the Lands, formerly a
surveyor, who had lived for two years on
the Island, as the man for the billet. The
Norfolkers are split into two factions. These
habitually disagree with enthusiasm, though
actual cracking of skulls doesn’t form a holi-
<day festival. Both sides, however, on the
;authority of a Norfolk Island resident now
in Sydney, are likely to agree that, with
Murphy as officer-in-charge of their affairs
and the lynx-eyed Strickland on top, some-
thing to their advantage may happen soon.
Lieutenant-Governor Murray, of Papua’s
sunbaked swamns, is hurrying to these shores.
He will have a look in here and then go on
to Melbourne. Official business will be
wedged in with the domestic duty of meeting
his wife and two youngsters on the banks of
the Yarra.
The Linschoten advertised the eerie hour
of midnight, when policemen yawn and
homeless dogs flee gradually towards nowhere
on the outer edge of the pavement, for slip-
ing out into the stream. It is bound for the
Spice and Rubber Islands via Darwin and
Port Moresby. Dr. Gilruth and his family
left this tow-n in the Dutch packet for their
Northern kingdom, of which the hub and
Babylon is the corrugated-iron clad town of
Darwin.
Lady Ellison Macartney, the wife of Tas-
mania’s Governor-elect, and ° sister of the
late Antarctic Scott, is alleged to have a taste
for the smell of a farmyard. She means to
cultivate or dabble in pigs, noultry and the
lowing herd in her island home. This lady
is said to be so fond of the outdoor life that
Hobart’s nicest people will have to provide
an elegant leg-rope if they hope to fasten
their new Governor’s wife up to the inter-
minable committee table.
The Barlows arrived here last week. He
is now enjoying the pension of an Admiral
who is off the active service list. In the
days_ when the Bowden Smiths reigned at
Admiralty House, Barlow was a senior naval
captain on this station. He married one of
the good-looking Dights.
The learned Louisa Macdonald, M.A., will
or will not have 'been victorious as a Univer-
sity women’s candidate for the Senate before
this meets your penetrating glance.
The Knox house —Fiona—that overlooks
Double Bay will be occupied by the Willie
Coopers for a year or so. The Cooper family
belongs to our earliest N.S.W. nobility, and
eventually snared a baronetcy. Dan’l was
the first bart. They’ve mostly lived a long
way from their original plot of soil in these
parts, and shone in the larger London cir-
cuit. Dan’l, the progenitor, was smitten
with the honor in the year 1863. Perhaps
he didn’t want to dodge, or perhaps he
didn t dodge fast enough—he may have been
carelessly standing under a tree amid a
thunderstorm of decorations and been hit.
In other words, his case may have been akin
to that of Ajax, who stood out in the open
and defied the gods to strike him with a
peerage, but he may not have had Ajax’s
luck. The present Willie of Woollahra is
the third of his line.
The venerable Mrs. Sophie Corrie, who
went on the land many years ago, and
stayed there till the fruits of the soil yielded
her a pleasing revenue, is still gadding about
this State with the brisk step of 17 or
thereabouts. Her book on the “Art of Can-
ning and Preserving Fruits,” has just burst
into new leaf in a sixth edition. What Mrs
Corrie, a young city-bred woman, did 40
years or so ago, many of our anaemic girl
typists could do, if they happened to feel like
it and knew how. Wasn’t it Charles Lamb’s
friend who said he could write like Shak-
speare—if he had a mind to? The mind
(plus a few raw materials, perhaps) is all
we want, of course, whether we intend to
run a successful egg farm, or write an im-
proved version (our own) of Hamlet’s soli-
loquy.
Mrs. Corrie was born somewhere in the
vicinity of Hunter-street in the davs when it
was a residential part of a not very large
town called Sydney. Left a widow with
several hungry little mouths to feed, she
boldly took up a selection in the bush. Her
capital, other than courage, health and the
mind (already hinted at as a necessary
asset), was so small that it couldn’t be seen
at all, unless you got right up alongside it.
J lie family, accustomed to the comforts of
city life, lived and thrived in a tent till the
iirst tiny slab homestead was built. The evo-
lution from tent to a roomy weatherboard
cottage, was a story of indomitable pluck
and brisk business capacity on the part of
one woman. The lonely selection changed
from dense bush to a smiling—it may be even
a grinning—orchard. The preserving pan
simmered on the side of the old colonial
oven, as persistently as it did on the modern
kitchen range, of later years. The Corrie
jams and jellies found a market that was
waitmv for them all over the State. Asa
first prize-winner at agricultural shows, Mrs.
Corrie s success became so monotonous that
she was.eventually asked to withdraw from
competitions and give younger exhibitors a
chance. She was like a locomotive running
for the Melbourne Cup. and had to be dis-
qualified on the ground that her speed be-
came a weariness. At an age that must
hover near the ’Bo’s, this veteran can cross
Sydney s crowded traffic, and dodge the man-
slaying motor, with the agility of a school-
girl.
Mrs. Ebsworth (Yic.) has recently re-
turned to the Cabbage Patch after a brief
holiday in Sydney. Her husband, a Mel-
bourne lawyer, went down in the unlucky
\v aratah. He was on his way to London to
unravel some legal, knot over there, when
the Great Damp Silence swallowed up the
ill-fated craft. His widow was left with five
youngsters to provide for. She kept the wolf
at bay by opening a tea-room in a Melbourne
suburb, and added a cake-bakery to its divi-
dends.. Local housewives send the raw
material to be mixed and baked by the expert
Mum Ebsworth. In this way the digestion
of many, young husbands is saved. Peaceful
homes, in. consequence, cluster round the
bakery chimney. The profits have been so
solid and satisfactory that one wonders why
the other Cabbage Patch lady, Mrs. Wiggs,
didn’t add a bakery to her store of wisdom.
An unreliable rumor hints that Flag-
Lieutenant Seton, R.N., is no longer onen for
engagement. The name of the lady (if she
be fact instead of fiction) hasn’t come this
way at date of writing.
A former Flag-Lieutenant on this station,
Mr. lisher, left Sydney engaged to one of
the wealthy N.S.W. Green family. He has
been disengaged for some time, unless some
other maiden has dragged him to the altar in
the interim. . The late Green pere made a
pot of money in wheat, and Green mere may
have had higher ambition for her treasure
than a junior bluejacket with brass buttons
bounding down his clothes. Anyhow, the
engagement fell into disrepair, and has
apparently never been mended. Sailor
Fisher, who officially shadowed Lady Poore
when she handed out tea and epigrams at
Admiralty House, suffered from two almost
incurable complaints. He was unselfish and
humble-minded. Perhaps this fatal diffi-
dence lost him the gy-u-r-rl and the booty.
Several members of the Dominions’ Com-
mission are billeted in various local clubs.
Only two are accompanied by their legal
ladies, and they are presumably unclubbed
and peacefuly housed in the ordinary hostel.
Architect Theo Marks and his new wife
are back again in this Land of Promise. The
lady used to be Mrs. D’Arcy Osborne.
Burly, brainy John Ferguson, of St.
Stephen’s Scotchbyterian Kirk, isn’t quite as
sturdy as his ardent disciples wish him to
be. His large and rugged exterior, how-
ever, remains unchanged, and his graphic
diction is still flavored with its old plaid-
patterned humor —best Scotch. Parson Fer-
guson, on his saunter by the banks of the
Nile with Prof. Anderson Stuart, lifted the
drab atmosphere of the Industrial Blind
Institution’s annual balance-sheet into a
flicker of mirth, the other afternoon. He
recalled how Dr. Andy Stuart made the blind
beggar see by flicking his thumb and fore-
finger on the schemer’s eyelids, whereat both
eyes flew open and the blind, after one glance
at the Stuart countenance, fled howling
into the sandy perspective.
The Rev. Ferguson, by the way, has barely
lived down the raging tempest he once pro-
voked amongst Scotchbyterian missionaries
and elders of the Kirk. He roundly declared
that the white heathen in the adjacent slum,
or the empty stomach leaning up against the
back fence, had a prior call to the sleek
brown brother in tropic isles. St. Stephen’s
pastor had the Gospel flung at his head for
this offence, by scandalised missionary socie-
ties, till some newer heresy diverted the
storm into other channels, and the gust of
bricks flew in anew direction.
Miss Harriet Newcomb, in a long letter
to the daily press, argues deftly enough,
from her point of view, on the advantages of
an Overseas’ Woman Suffrage Union.
Briefly, the object of such a union is to give
women’s franchise in S’Africa and Britain
a good hard push. The Christchurch (M.L.)
Stab was responsible for this notion. Two
important facts have been squeezed out of
sight by the enthusiastic Harriet Newcomb,
who was badly bitten with the militant
suffragist germ during her recent visit to
England. First, that Britain, with a major-
ity of over 1,000,000 women, will, if it gives
adult suffrage, place its political life in the
hands of women’s candidates. And most
women, as far as one can judge from politi-
cal meetings here, prefer the politician who
has the largest assortment of domestic
virtues. The effect of a vote of this kind on
the Foreign Policy of Britain would be so
far-reaching that no one could safely predict
the size of the inevitable Disaster. Secondly,
the time for “impressing” the British Gov-
ernment with the urgent necessity of women’s
franchise is inopportune. John Bull is too
busy trying to save life and pronerty from
the talons of the destroying angels of the
Cause to care a tinker’s Bible for an Over-
seas’ Women’s Suffrage Union.
Governor Strickland, with the youthful,
sleek-haired A.D.C. Talbot in tow, presided
at . the recent annual meeting in the Indus-
trial Blind Institution. Manager Hedger
has been in charge of this institution for
many years. The concensus of opinion by
those who have watched his methods is that
he has grasped some very troublesome nettles
there was quite a large crop a couple of
years ago—with a strong right hand, and
administered justice with a capable left.
The chief trouble used to be the fierce
objection of a percentage of the blind to
work. Begging was easy. Judging by the
rotund appearance of a few of the craft who
still hold out the ever-open palm in the
streets, it is also profitable. The slack
methods of 10 years or so ago brought a
horde of more or less blind persons to Syd-
ney. The shoe-lace and match-box cast a
thin haze over their firm determination to
cadge. _ In the straightening up of the
professional blind beggar into a useful citi-
zen who worked for his own livelihood,
Manager Hedger had to bear the brunt of
the battle. There was ceaseless vituperation
amid a professionally unemployed class,
which has been gradually drafted into the
Boomerang-street house and the cane and
'’oir matting industry. Peace appears to
be at last flapping her little-used wings over
this institution. The name of Hedger
brought a round of applause from the blind
workers who were present when Prof.
Anderson Stuart garnished the annual
balance-sheet with an enthusiastic refer-
ence to the manager. Governor Strickland,
brief and to the point, replied.
The Shakspeare Tercentenary Fund is the
favorite hobby of the month. Local “Soci-
ety” has flung itself into the glittering task
ot providing, at one guinea per head, floor
space for dancing ; supper; and the exquisite
delight of seeing Darling Point caper round
in Shakspeanan garb. Hugh Ward told a
thin, preliminary meeting, a few weeks ago,
that it would be necessary to abandon the
original date (April 23) fixed for the ball.
The plain and simple reason was that it
needed a much longer time to flog or wallop
or spank the enterprise into financial shape.
By May 22,_ however, the public will have
been goaded into a feverish desire to gaze at
a show the like of which (see advts. in
daily press) has never occurred on this
planet before. In which respect it will re-
semble Hamlet’s father, who, according to
his son, was also an outstanding institution
of his kind.
A junior State-school class was getting its
brain cells spring-cleaned re Shakspeare
Day. “And who,” said Teacher in her silk-
iest tones, “was England’s greatest man?”
A small arm shot up like a semaphore.
“William the Conqueror, pleath teacher, and
he landed at the Battle of Hastings.”
. Mrs. Mayoress Cocks received a flood or
tidal wave of visitors in her official lair in
the Town Hall the other afternoon. Some
of the last suburban buds of summer were
present, also a heavy assortment of cabbage
roses, rather wilted about the stem. The
cabbage-rose type of lady—large, phlegmatic
and prone to over-eat herself on cream puffs
■—was, on the word of one who was first in
the field, an early bird. Latecomers saw
her in her might, still squatting on the out-
works of the mayoral nest, steadily gorging
on the fat municipal worm. The present
Gaud Mayoress is so artistic with the food
supply that the Confirmed Gluttons only
tore themselves away from her vicinity when
they had circumnavigated the commissariat
department to its last bun.
The McMillan dame made a blithe en-
trance to the mayoral menagerie about 10
minutes before closing time, Mrs. Mathew
Henry Stephen was a heat or so ahead.
Town Clerk Nesbitt, just back from his holi-
day, also Municipal A.D.C. Layton and his
slim lady, hovered round the rush of aider-
men’s wives that surged forward to clutch
the hand of Mrs. Cocks. The Gaud Mavor.
a large, beneficent Presence, dropoed a word
or two here and there into the plumed crowns
of our Best Hats. North Sydney’s little
Mayoress. Mrs. Walker, was amongst the
massive throng of those who also ran from
suburban council chambers. The bright-eyed
Mrs. Anderson Stuart hurried along from
the Uni. party to the Cocks’s tea-scramble,
and was one of the smartest persons present.
Mrs. R. McAnderson descended from the
rose gardens of Lindfield for this corroboree
The zebra stripe in black and white is on*
of the pleasing extravagances of thh season
Only a first-class Snip or a
can handle a zebra stripe so that eaoll^T
line fits into its counterpart and each S
thread meets its mate. A zebra coat
skirt, worn by pretty Mrs H G
who lives by Manly’s wave, caught
the other afternoon It had a dash of black
trimming and the fit of the stripes was what
the. world has been craving for since the
beginning of history. ine
The new Uni. Union structure within the
Varsity grounds was ofliciallv inspected w
Governor Strickland one afternoon last week
Society was also bidden to the inspection
but failed to get its nose inside the front
door of the building, whereat it bubbled with
indignation on the doormat or thereabout
Ihe sawbones students seethed with indiena
tion m a weird procession on the outworks
of the show. So the Uni. party had most of
the combustible elements that onlv want »
match to explode in a Balkan-Newtown in
surrection or a great Bulgarian struggle af
Paddington. As a stage manager of social
functions, Chancellor MacLaurin seems to
have all the qualifications of a Toreador's
red rag when it meets the eye of an infuri-
ated Spanish bull.
The Women’s “Liberal” Club recently sent
forth, from the fastnesses of its upper cham-
ber, its loud annual challenge to the Labor
movement. Mrs. Charles G. Wade was in
charge of this forlorn hope. Liberal ladies
having attributed everything from the price
of eggs (obviously due to a strike amongst
Labor hens) to the summer drought, to the
politics of the present Government, will now
sit firmly in front of the vast wheel of
Progress.
The Cold Tea party in this State is rein-
forced by the arrival of a Temperance scream
lady named Mrs. Harrison Lee-Cowie. “No-
license” is her bottle-cry. The war against
wine when it is red, and beer when it is
dregs, will rage without Quarter for the next
three or four months. The Y.M.C.A. met
the lady with a holy smile.
Mrs. Boult, the brainy woman-dra-matist,
is to have a complimentary benefit aimed at
her some time in the immediate future. It
is understood that it will probably hit her,
the man in charge being a good shot. The
Criterion Theatre will be the place.
Singer Emilie Lambert returned to this
port the other day. in Paris, under Bouhy,
she picked up a kit-full of the priceless tips
that vocal expert scatters about. Emilie’s
hats, I may mention, have also acquired a
French accent.
The Sydney Liedertafel, under the baton
of Arundel Orchard, gave David’s Symphonic
Ode, “The Desert,” the other night. A
symphonic ode is a fairly quiet musical
beast that only breaks out now and again in
fierce growls. It is streaked with mono-
logue. This runs like a lean line through
the fat of Felicien David’s exquisite music.
But the spoken word, even from the throat
of a seasoned elocutionist like Lawrence
Campbell, is cold and dull, when it is mixed
up with a vocal and instrumental effort such
as “The Desert.” The recurring monologue
was a dreary nuisance which crept like a
disabled snail through the first half of the
programme.
The Liedertafel is strong in its fine male
chorus singing, and weak in its orchestra.
W. Hopkins-Jones, a youngish tenor with a
pleasing voice used in an unpleasing way,
had a wonderful opportunity in the solo, “0
Lovely Night” (“The Desert”), and missed
it by a mile or two. Later on. in the part
song, “Morning Serenade,” W. H. Parkinson,
a member of the R.S.L., flung a sweet tenor
lilt fresh and pure as the chirrup of the
Best Little Wretch in the village choir, over
the municipal echoes. Eva Gauthier, the
star singer of the Lied, concert, was recalled
for a cyclone of encores. The French-Cana-
dian must have secretly interviewed the un-
lovely platform of our Town Hall with
regard to her own plumage. In a gown of
red and gold, with a small scarlet flame in
her locks, she was like a gay little Robin
Redbreast, with the raven garb of the male
chorus in the background. Francis Suttor,
M.L.C. and a daughter were in the front
ranks of the evening-dress brigade, and the
Ernest Broughtons hung over the dizzy edge
of their balcony seats while the Gauthier
top notes hit the roof.
Chappell and Co. send along two volumes
of Frank Lambert’s short songs done up in
album form. After the postman had crept
out from under this heavy luggage, he leaned
up against the office stair rail, and went on
ejecting fat rolls of music from the same
publisher. “Under the Pines,” a new one-
step. fell into the wastepaper basket:
“Fairy Dreams,” by Arthur Wood, reserved
for a Flapper; “Turn Dem Eyes Away,”
recommended to a full-throated Tivoli double-
bass ; “Ma Mississippi Ma,” evidently not
written by Schumann, sung by Margaret
Cooper, but continues to ask for fame. Best
of the bunch is “The Dustman.” Liza Leh-
mann is responsible for the dreamy little
melody that wanders through the moon-flow-
ers of this tiny songlet.
Yours affectionately.
VANDOEIAN.


VICE-REGAL
JEWELLERS
BY APPOINTMENT.
Bracelet Watches.
Fashionable Designs, Reliable Quality and Excellent
Timekeepers.
The prices are moderate.
s
High-grade Swiss Lever Gold Keyless Watch, with
fine Gold Expanding Bracelet, in Case, £l2/10/- !
4
rst
§ a
High-grade Swiss Lever Gold Keyless Watch, with
fine Gold Expanding Bracelet, in Case, £lO/10/-
Our Mail Order Department offers special facilities to those
who cannot call. Selections sent on approval to any address.
HARDY BROTHERS, LIMITED,
VICEREGAL JEWELLERS,
13 Hunter St., Sydney; 118 Queen St., Brisbane.
LONDON OFFICE: 17 & 18 WEST SMITHFIELD, E.C.
N.S.W. Bookstall Series.
1,000,000 COPIES SOLD OF THE POPULAR
“BOOKSTALL” SERIES of AUSTRALIAN NOVELS
Written, Illustrated and Printed in Australia.
Price One (Shilling' Each ; Post Free 1/1.
JUST PUBLISHED.
“IN RACING SILK,”
Price Is. : Post Free, Is. Id.
by GERALD R. BALDWIN,
With frontispiece and three-color
cover by PERCY F. S. SPENCE.
In this book we have one of the best Australian stories that has appeared for some time.
It is full of racing of the genuine sort, where both men and horses are triers, and the
descriptions of a few hard-fought finishes are brimful of life and excitement.
Naturally there is a woman in the case, and a “sport” at that, and before the tape is passed
for the last time she has a few men so tangled up that they “dunno’ where they are.” The human
interest is exceptionally well centred, and one lays the book down with a feeling of regret that
there is no more of it.
THOS. E. SPENCER,
Australia’s Subtlest
Humorist,
And the Writer of the Best Australian Recitations
and Sketches this side of the Equator.
Year after year he maintained that reputation, and he never sent to his publisher any book
that public opinion has not voted a DECIDED SUCCESS. Those who are fond of GENUINE
HUMOR and a HEARTY LAUGH should start with “McDOUGALL,” and go right down the list.
It can be done for a SHILLING A SHOT, and will prove money well spent. Every book teems
with SPLENDID RECITATIONS, such as clever amateurs love, and the variety is endless
The List to Date: —
How McDougall Topped the Score.
The Spring Cleaning.
Bindawalla.
Why Dorothy Died.
The Surprising Adventures
Bridget McSweeney.
The Haunted Shanty.
That Droll Lady.
of
PRICE Is. per Vol. ; Postage Id.
Steele Rudd's Great Australian Books
In Cheap Editions. Price Is. each. Post Free Is. Id.
All the Celebrated Illustrations have been retained, as these New Cheap Editions are printed from
the Original Stereos.
Sandy’s Selection.
Back at Our Selection.
From Selection to City.
On Our Selection.
Our New Selection.
The Dashwoods.
The Poor Parson.
Duncan McClure.
For Life.
Dad in Politics.
Stocking Our Selection.
On an Australian Farm.
■ARE NOW OBTAINABLE FROM
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.,
476 George Street, Sydney; and all Booksellers.
A Pianist Who Never
Learned to Play !
HE never took lessons, nor did he go
to Italy to study. He didn’t spend
hours of practice or hundreds of
pounds to acquire his musical talent.
When he played he simply abandoned him-
self to the spirit of the composition and
never to the letter.
If Would you like to know how you can
follow his example and become as delight-
ful a performer as he? Then allow us to
introduce the
STEOK PIANOLA PIANO
r»i j • + —by hand
Played in two ways_ b £
music=roll.
If The playing of theTianola Piano is not different
from the playing of the human hands. Why?
Because you are enabled to guide tonal effects
to the most delicate shading. The Pianola
Piano responds almost as quickly as you think
and feel.
If The Pianola Piano bridges the chasm between
you and the beautiful world of music. Once
you step there you will never want to leave it.
What it took pianists years to acquire, in order
to be able to clothe their emotions in melody
you gain at a moment. And yet time can
never tire you of it, nor can you say, “I cannot
improve more.”
If There are two instruments in one in the
Steck Pianola Piano —a regular piano which
can be used for practice or performance, and a
Player-piano for the music-rolls. One becomes
the other in an instant.
If You will be delightfully surprised when you
hear the Pianola —and that you may have that
pleasurable opportunity we extend you a most
cordial invitation to call unon us at Pianola
Hall to-day, to-morrow or any other time
suitable to your convenience. Remember, our
prices are not high.
1f If unable to call let us send you a Catalogue
of the Steck Pianola Piano. We will send it
free if you will write and ask us for Catalogue R.
&
Or.
m
K . 3-.
a r
srn'rf
re
5! ■ g
$1
SSS
ry*
I .
PIANOS WITHOUT PIANOLAS. —If you are considering the purchase of
a piano of the conventional type, do not make your selection until you
have visited Pianola Hall. Here are the headquarters of two of the-
world’s most famous pianos—the Weber and the Steck. Here will also
be found the Stroud, a piano of widely-recognised excellence. These
pianos range in price from 45 guineas upwards, purchasable upon exceed-
ingly moderate monthly terms.
USED PIANOS OF CELEBRATED MAKES.—Our Exchange Department
presents unusual opportunities. In this department are to be found
pianos bearing the names of the best-known makers, such as Bechstein,
Bluthner, Steck, Ronisch, Feurich, Lipp, etc. These pianos have come to
Pianola Hall in exchange for the Pianola Piano (the Piano that everyone
can play). They have come from the finest homes—have usually had little
or no use, and are practically undistinguishable from new, either in.
musical quality or appearance.
m
mm
THE PIANOLA COMPANY,
252 Collins Street, MELBOURNE /
88 Bundle Street, ADELAIDE /
and 436-438 Queen Street, BRISBANE
357 George Street (next David Jones Ltd.), Sydney.
London, Berlin, New York, etc.
t rni CIKMAN • M*|


ty
\k
Farmer’s Coat Shirts
Are Convenient and Comfortable.
PR/CES FROM 7\6 EACH .
Farmer’s Coat Shirts are exactly like ordinary Tunic Shirts in
apDearance. The great thing about them is that they slip on and off
just like an ordinary coat, and are thus both convenient and time-saving.
They are made from serviceable Fancy Zephyrs, in tasteful designs
and colorings, and have stiff cuffs and neckbands. Obtainable in the
Men’s Mercery Section, Pitt Street Entrance.
Prices: 7\6 , a/6 and 1016 each .
Carriage Paid to Any Part of Australia.
Farmer’s, Sydney
THe
Oriental
Hotel,
MELBOURNE.
AUSTRALIA’S MODERN HOTEL.
Now open for the reception of Guests.
The most Hygienic Conditions and Refined
Elegance are distinctive features.
Any size suite of compartments.
Tariff from 15/- per day.
ERNEST McINTOSH, General Manager.
FOR THE
RAPID RELIEF OF
Insomnia, Indigestion,
Weak Nerves, Poor
Appetite, Sluggish
Liver, Sick Headache,
Use
CLEMENTS TONIC
ALL CHEMISTS and STORES
SELL IT EVERYWHERE.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, April 21, 1913.
My Dear Tarrie, —
Governor Fuller is paying a series of coun-
try visits. Last week, attended by Help
Curwen, he gladdened the Percy Chirnsides,
at Werribee Manor. This Saturday he will
delight the George Chirnsides, at Werribee
Park. The Arden-Franklyns go with him,
also Secretary Wilberforce, who thus gets a
few days rest from the social problem.
Chamberlain Nevill, who has been holidav-
ing with a motor and Simon Fraser in the
Ma State, returned to Melbourne last week.
The trip included a scorch from Deniliquin
to Bendigo, where a halt had to be called to
patch a burst tyre. It probably burst with
loyalty.
The youngest Fenner girl is again packing
her boxes for a spell of foreign travel. The
Stuart Murrays took her with them on their
recent globe trot; this time Gladys Chirn-
side has invited her. The pair depart towards
the end of this month. They will look at
China and Japan, before starting on a
European wander which may last for two
years. The poor sundowner isn’t the only
person without a fixed place of abode.
Much sympathy has gone out to the Guyon
Purchas family, owners of Fairlie House
Mansions. Son Cedric died suddenly only a
few days after his mother and sister had
sailed for Ceylon.
The Tom Athertons, with daughter Muriel
in tow, are returning from their trip abroad.
A very sad Mollie waved them farewell on
the other side. Her good-looking husband,
Captain White, is stationed at Plymouth,
and his Australian wife finds military life
rather cramped after the freedom of Mel-
bourne and Australia generally.
Handsome Mrs. Birkbeck is busy packing
an her Melbourne Mansions flat, for the
forthcoming trip to the land where son Max
as being carefully Harrowed. Mr. Birkbeck,
who is well known in mining circles, is only
stepfather to the youth. Max’s parental
aiame is Ogilvie.
Mjs. Bill Smith caught one of the last
fine tdays of the • fleeting season and scored
Iheavally with her garden party. Ravenswood
ibaasts some of the best-trimmed lawns about
Melbourne, and quite 400 smart and at-
tempted smart people littered the sward with
violent splotches of color. The Pierrots,
penned in a rustic playhouse, only managed
to raise languid smiles. It wasn’t that their
jokes were extra old, but Society these davs
wears so much top-dressing on its face that
it is afraid to laugh. Refreshments were
supplied in three grades. No 1 food was
available in a room trimmed with Iceland
poppies. No 2 provender could be grabbed
in an apartment decorated with dahlias. No.
3 ration was shoved at the mass under can-
vas. If there was any No. 4, it must have
been thrown about in the woodshed, or the
recipient must have had the bone on the
mat. Mrs. Bill, in a coon-striped garment,
expensively patched with Irish crochet, was
attended by a blue-and-white daughter and
son Hamilton’s wife. Mrs. Guthrie, just
back from Europe, preened herself in gar-
ments which were just about half an hour
ahead of the next most fashionable lady pre-
sent. Dame Holroyd trotted round with
daughter O’Hara Wood and Herbert Sar-
good’s wife. The Grimwade mother and
daughter figured amongst the also present.
The motoring world of Melbourne got a
shock the other Monday when the sudden
death of Mr. Jim Steaines was paragraphed
in the papers. He was the proprietor and
editor of the Australian Motorist —a spry
little man who wore short-sight pince-nez
glasses and a genuine air of affability. His
defective eyesight caused his death, it is
thought. He was week-ending on his bit of
timbered land at Paradise, on the Gembrook
line, and whilst he and his brother-in-law
were busy at “burning-off,” a big tree took
it into its rotten heart to fall to the ground.
Mr. Steaines must have misjudged the line
of fall —or he tripped over a losr whilst try-
ing to escape. The wicked tree fell right
upon him.
As soon as the divorce court proceedings
had been concluded, Dr. Wunderlich hurried
off to Cliveden Mansions, where he resides,
and packed his kit bag for a jaunt to Japan.
A Cliveden suite has just been expensively
trimmed and decked out for the Osmont
bridal pair, who are shortly due to return
from the honeymoon.
The Rubber Edwards couple are off to
Europe next week. Their fiat is to be kept
dusted for them while they are away, so no
one else need apply for it.
A jolly reunion of girls who have done
their native land credit happened last Tues-
day at a Quamby Club luncheon. Pianist
Doris Madden, Lovie (Mueller) Cadorin and
Emily Dyason were included. After food
and confidences, they all invaded Sculptor
Cadorin’s den to have a privileged peep at
the art treasures, before the doors were
thrown open for the entrance of the G.-G.
The Cadorin art treasures were spread out
on velvet cloths and art tapestry remnants in
a modest Centreway room. The G.-G. asked
the usual blessing on the show, and then
hurried away in the vice-regal car, accom-
panied by Help Burnham. Ettore is long
and graceful, wears copper-colored hair, and
speaks fractured Venetian-English. He beamed
and pump-handled the company, and ex-
plained how easy it was to chip odd restau-
rant tables and old baths into marble cherubs
and Yenuses. Mrs. Ettore (who, as I have
already explained, was once our own Lovie
Mueller) smiled happily in a green silk crepe
dressing-gown, tied up with a green bootlace
threaded under the arms. It is a careful re-
production of a real old Venetian gown, and
is stamped with marvellous gilded designs
round the neck. Lovie has loads of similar
garments, and intends to hold an exhibition
of them so that her dearest friends can see
them all. Above the green drapings she bal-
anced a huge modern black velvet hat with
ostrich trimmings. Mrs. Yic. Lansell (just
back from Sydney) came in a blue coat and
skirt with a black-gowned mother, who sup-
ported a noticeable orange feather. Mrs. O.
Syme (in brown), Mrs. Frew (in black)
and a crowd of Bendigo girl chums helped
to fill the little room. Mrs. Peterson looked
in and joined the worshipping group that
ejaculated round Lovie done in bronze, and
clutching a peplus (winding-sheet, in case
you don’t know). This was considered cheap
at 50 guineas. When the heat and crush
grew too oppressive, some of the sturdy early
callers elbowed their way to the doors and
went in search of buns and afternoon tea.
Less muscular guests stayed on and swel-
tered amiably.
Pianist Willie Murdoch filled the Masonic
Hall with melody for the third time, before
departing for further conquests in Bendigo
and elsewhere. Willie’s admirers are many
and abject, and include others besides the
gushing young females who rhapsodise with
their heads hanging sideways. His last effort
was well attended, and even some of the
empty chairs were occupied by reserved tick-
ets. He is a nice, spruce-looking pianist, and
he cuts his golden hair quite short. He
would pass anywhere for an ordinary hand-
some, two-step youth. But when he stows
his long legs under the spreading concert
grand and dives at the keyboard with both
hands, you could forgive him anything—•
even long hair or bigamy. Tired folk, who
came from a sense of social duty, or some-
thing of the kind, sat up straight and ceased
to rustle their programmes when he _ got
fairly going. Though he has definitely
“arrived,” Willie still speaks Australian, and
remembers his numerous Conservatorium
pals.
Repertory playgoers hurried along to the
Athenaeum, on Tuesday night, to inspect
“David Ballard.” It was followed by Ed-
ward Dyson’s one-act gasp of tragedy, “The
Climax.” A Repertory audience fairly reeks
of literary culture and Art for Art’s sake ;
it is recognised by its expanse of forehead,
also by its spectacles, frocking and enthusi-
asm. Archibald Strong, Melbourne’s self-
crowned king-pin of Literature, lent valu-
able assistance by being absent; but large
quantities of Shakspearian Art Society and
Literary Club folk drifted along in last year’ss
opera cloaks and astonishing hair trimmings.
The role of David Ballard, who takes him-
self seriously, and aspires to Higher Things
(not balloons and aeroplanes), was grappled
with by Lyle Christian ? a youthful member
of the company who has appeared in wan,
sad parts on previous occasions. The play
presents human nature in the pettiest and
most hopeless domestic rags. The servant
never forgets to have a smut on her nose,
and the twin babies are nearly always yell-
ing. Edward Dyson’s stage sketch of the
terrible bush silence is not likely to be
grabbed by the Immigration people for ad-
vertising purposes. Dreariness and the
seamy side of things appear to appeal to the
Repertory people just as strongly as panto-
mime ballets do to ordinary commercial
audiences. The usual cartloads of flowers
were delivered by perspiring ushers at the
end of the evening. Admiring friends and
relations of the performers were numerous
and noticeable. I had not time to search the
dark corners for furtive and sneering
enemies.
After her Melbourne concert, pianiste
Doris Madden is off to Sydney to play with
the Symphony Orchestra. This, by the
is a .Tune fixture. The watery city is to be
supplied with piano melody, and afterwards
Brisbane and Toowoomba are to be played
to. Brother Maurice has gone potato-raising
or something in the backblocks of South
Gippsland. (This potato item has nothing
to do with music, but I happened to have it
about me.)
The Victorian artists fed their ravenous
souls with music at their rooms, last Friday
evening. The Wiedermann dame chaperoned
a programme of carefully-selected best pupils,
who trilled in assorted languages on the
plain board platform, which was trimmed for
the occasion with the remnants of someone’s
hearth-rug. The spirit of art also expressed
itself in earthenware drain-pipes, finished off
with bunches of chrysanthemums. At coffee
time the gathering split up into small
groups, which mostly discussed the masked
ball, which is to be held on June 25.
Artist Tom Carter is packing up his
brushes for a trip to Europe. He sails in
June, well loaded with passes and entrance
tickets to Paris and London schools, where
he will soak up all available points. His
show in the Centreway (opened Tuesday,
April 15), has already paid his expenses for
the trip, and the watercolor seascapes and
oil portraits are still selling freely.
Little Mrs. Otto Harcourt is going to try
and earn an artistic crust at photography.
Otto does well in the iron business, so, as
they won’t have to depend on her exertions,
she does not intend to drudge at her self-
chosen profession. Only on three days per
week may friends submit their countenances
for portraiture. The Harcourt couple, by
the way, reside at Melbourne Mansions, of
which pile they are amongst the earliest in-
habitants.
The Alexandra Club, thoroughly well-
broomed and wearing its best suit of chair-
covers, also a few loads of copper-tinted vege-
tation, was reserved for the Madden tea and
bun feast. Early in the afternoon, a swarm
of minor notables choked up the entrance to
the Gas Co.’s building, and the lift was kept
going at top speed lifting the chatterers to
club level, where a prolonged handshaking
was administered to the gathering by the
hosting family. John and his dame were
assisted in the pumphandling by daughter
Beatrice—these days developing a startling
resemblance to late Aunt Rowan. Mrs.
Fred Payne, white to the knee and black
below, was one of the early birds. Mrs. T.
W. J. Clarke rushed a load of blue feathers
through the early door and avoided some of
the crush. Dame Gillott, now on or about
the high seas, found time to run in and out.
Mrs. Barrett, wife of the Collins-street doc-
tor, gushed earnestly to an attentive group
about some delightful people met in London.
Tall Mrs. Jack Fisken, George Kelly’s wife,
and Maggie Stirling showed up in the crowd.
Evidently the autumn weather has sharp-
ened the appetites of the Most Expensive, for
something like a polite riot raged round the
provisions laid out on a rose-decked table.
The new Concert Hall, which is pushing
its seven storeys into the Collins-street air,
will be interesting. It is a real concert hall,
with sloping floors and comfortable seats,
and an arrangement by which even the
cheapest music lover cannot be more than
90ft. from the centre of warble or Noise.
Also, the hall is a patent collapsible or magi-
cal place that can be prepared to hold 2000
for a concert that goes the whole hog or re-
duce the space to suit a handful of hun-
dreds for a small comfortable recital without
either the performers or the audience being
aware of horrible empty benches. Also, the
hall has two horseshoe balconies, which can
be shut up and their space virtually effaced.
There are only two pillars in the whole
place, and they are out of sight. Another
point of visual comfort will be the sheltered
electrics which filter their light in an even
sheet and leave no blazing globe to hit one’s
aching eye. The ventilation is guaranteed
draught-proof and perfect, and there are
ways to make cold listeners warm. The
chairs are high in the back, deep and armed.
A dome ceiling is calculated to seduce sound.
Even the orchestra is a movable concern.
The seats rise into the air from the plat-
form, so that a tootling flautist won’t be
hamoered by the Big Drum, and the front
circle of these steps are removable, so that if
the singing concert star has a special han-
kering for long trains, she can be accommo-
dated with room to flaunt them. A foyer,
comfortably warmed for talk and tea-parties,
is a feature, and this looks on to a Collins-
street balcony. Also, the artists’ rooms and
rooms for the management are poems of
jcomfort.
Musical genius runs in all shanes, as the
horsey folk would say, but in the male shape,
at any rate, it rarely runs bashfully. Ner-
vousness is the rule with both the girls and
boys; bashfulness the exception. Last
week’s concerts gave interesting specimens
of the nervous piano-thumper in Rita Hope
(whose talent is near akin to genius), and
the bashful ditto in William Murdoch. The
Australian girl was palpably prevented by
her nerves from doing her very best. She
needs more practice in public to give her
easy confidence in her powers, but she doesn’t
seem to suffer from natural bashfulness. The
Australian boy, on the other hand, harnesses
his nerves to his fingers. His art loses
nothing by his lack of cool “cheek.” But
his bashfulness! The pity is that he must
grow out of it by degrees. At his second
recital he was handed up a laurel tribute —a
wreath —and he looked as though he were
asking of his soul: “What have I done to
deserve this ordeal?”
Eva Gauthier and Laurence Godfrey-
Smith collected an audience at the Town
Hall last Saturday night. Little Eva, the
French-Canadian with Parisian frocks, an
American walk, and a birdlike voice, was
swathed like a mummy from the waist down-
wards in Chinese red-gold brocade. Her jet-
black hair was built into a busby that threat-
ened to eclipse her face at anv moment. She
might have been a plate from the very latest
fashion journal. Laurence has a retiring
manner, and a hyphen, and some of his hair
is conspicuous by its absence. He scorned to
play anything with tune or fireworks in it,
and if any musically ignorant folk got in by
mistake, they must have suffered dreadfully
The music-drinkers, during the first part, sat
round in scattered groups. But, during the
half-time interval, some o£ the marooned ones
moved forward with their chocolates and hus-
bands to have a closer view of Eva’s uphol-
stery. Then the building looked less like the
last stages of a game of chess. Eva, being
addicted to pretty platform manners son*w
to bring accompanist Harold Elvins forward
ta l he applau J: e ; Ba t Harold was so
shy that he nearly dislocated her arm trying
to get behind the piano. Next item
dodged her and fled coyly from public vi e ’w. h
From my Adelaide correspondent:
The Tom Brownes have returned from th« n
land Lakes, and are settled at
winter, 'iheir nephew (a son of the Colonel h
d,»„ „» ,h, w™uh),
The S.A.J.C. struck a perfect day for its
ing on Saturday The dust of the Bay-road was Quite
summer like, both as regards quality and quantity
The Hawker luck was in again, and Rallina won the
last race. Dividends of £2O and £l3 were He
clared by that instrument of destruction the Tote'
Mrs. John Corbin, Mrs. Tom Barr Smith Mrs
Colley, Miss Burston (who has come here to heln her
brother through the ordeal of matrimony) Mrs
McLachlan, Mrs. Swift and Miss Muriel Peacock were
identifiable amid a welter—not to say a perfect
blither—of feminine charm and beauty.
The J. H. Gosses returned to Westralia on Satur-
day. They perform this feat about every six
months.
So far, the Burston-Culross wedding has been
the smartest entertainment of its kind this season
It was staged at St. Michael’s Church, Mitcham
on Wednesday, before an audience of anything tToni
300 to 600. The bridesmaids wore soft white dresses
(when, indeed, did one of these young women figure
in a hard white dress?), and veils surmounted bv
wreaths of green leaves protected their tender skulis
from the elements. Also, amongst other things,
they wore green sashes and sheaves of oink gladioli!
Mrs. Culross gave her numerous friends the glad eye
at Woodfield, the home of the bride’s grandmother.
She performed this trying turn creditably, in a
frock of dull black satin with a beplumed hat.
Mrs. Burston wore a smart blue dress with touches
of fur. Among the guests were Mrs. O’Leary, Mrs.
Acres, Miss Hawker, the Frank and Harold Fishers,
Mrs. McMillan (whose daughter was one of the be-
sashed and veiled bridesmaids mentioned above),
Mrs. Swift and the Misses Peacock.
Miss Martha Bruggemann is returning from a
foreign voice-cure by the Zieten. She will stav
with her sister, Mrs. Dursthoff, at Wayville.
Mrs. Harold Drew, who died suddenly on Tuesday,
was one of Adelaide’s pretty and popular young mar-
ried women. She was a step-daughter of the Goode
knight.
While on the subject of tragedies, the death of Mr.
Matheson was a blow to the Social world here. He
was making his first trip to England, and died this
side of Suez, after a five days’ illness. Mrs. Mathe-
son was with him; also her two daughters and
Miss Mary Cheadle. He was born at Buckland Park,
and in his 51 years had managed to see a good
deal of this State. At different times he had lived
in the south-east, the lower and upper north and the
Territorv, and at the time of his death he had big
squatting interests in the north. He was a keen
sportsman, and was one of the best supporters of
country racing. His colors were well known at
metropolitan meetings. His two sons are at St.
Peter’s College. ......
Sisters, cousins, mothers, aunts and other impedi-
menta flocked to the Adelaide Oval on Saturday, and
passed crude and ill-formed comments on the athletic
efforts of the St. Peter’s and Prince Alfred’s colleges’
boys. The Reds won, for a change. The wife of the
Chief Justice dispensed the prizes in that even-
handed, impartial fashion which is an absolute tradi-
tion in the Way family. She did it in a smartly-
built coat and skirt of purple taffeta. #
Dr. Sybil Bevan, who has been appointed medical
inspector and instructor in the State schools of New
South Wales, left for her new lob by Monday’s ex-
press. Her father is the brilliant and eloquent
Bevan, D.D. , , . .
H L Brose, our latest Rhodes Scholar, has been
entered at Christ Church, Oxford. “The House,” as
it is known in ’Varsity circles, was once the almost
exclusive resort of the Bloods. Now, I am told, the
student is as likely to find a full-blooded African
savage sharing his staircase as a marquis—in fact,
more so. The social decline of this ancient founda-
tion began with the painting of Tom Quad red by a
number of undergraduates who had been refused
permission to go to the present Duke of Marlborough s
coming-of-age ball, at Blenheim, nearby.
much time and trouble to vet the red paint off the
walls, and the wails of the dons on the subject gave
the place a bad advt. Now that the Prince of
Wales has gone to Magdalen its misery is complete.
Mr. Brose will leave for this sorely-stricken spot in
July, and a public farewell is to <be accorded him
some time in June. ,
Major F. Basse died at Walkerville on Thursday.
Apart from business he gave most of his time to
music and soldiering, and was actively connected
with the work of the old volunteer forces. He had
been President of the Naval and Military Club for
years, and was also President of the Lyric Club and
a figure in the Adelaide Liedertafel.
Mrs. Sunter. widow of the late Canon Sunter, and
a daughter of the late Dr. Schomhurg, who made
our Botanical Gardens, died in Germany the other
dav. Reallv, mv dear, I am divided m my mind
as to whether this is a bright, chatty letter or an
obituarv notice. . , ,
Chief Justice Griffith and his wife arrived here on
Fridav, and met the local ornaments of the Bench ar
the Supreme Court. They were afterwards shown
the sights—that is to say. some of them. ine
consideration of all our sights, at one fell dose, ,
speak, would overstrain the nerve even of the Hign
Court Bench. _,v n
To revert to the Grave, Mrs. Mann, who
died at Gilbert on Thursday night, was tne
widow of that Charles Mann who was the
first Advocate-General of this State when it was still
a Province. A disagreement with Governor Hind
marsh led to his resignation and temporary rP " ,den £!
in Tasmania, but when Hindmarsh was recalled ne
returned to S.A., and in 1844 was made first Master
of the Supreme Court. In he was appointed
acting-judge, and subsequently filled various le-
billets. His son. Charles Mann, Q.C., was abou
the mnat brilliant pleader this State has ever boasted.
“Rosna,” from London :
The little Wigmore girl from Perth (WA-'I has
just run off with a fiddle scholarship at the Koyai
College of Music, and now the masters of that insii
tution must teach her for three years free of , _
This will be the eighth year’s tuition the cievei
youngster has earned for herself at the august
of noise. The Queensland fiddler _ child.
Moodie, is to have another concert given tor ■
The T. A. Coghlans and various portions of m
peerage are whipping things up. The Duehes
Marlborough is lending Sunderland House f
event at the end of May, and promises afternoon
tea to the audience hv way of comic relief.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.


ike Brothers Ip
STATION SHIRT'S
P/K£Sfi2l£
i*sS**£
r
a
1
s-.»
i-'
M PI ~ ~ . k •' , 1 , > .r~fi
Fashioned in the generous, gooddi
way peculiar to the productions of
ttiT
pike brothers limited,
fiom sturdy, soft Canvas fabrics, either
plain white or blue, or neat Stripe patterns
as illustration.
Fitted with the conventional collar, secured
by treble crips. A useful breast pocket
on left side.
RE4DY FOR SERVICE OR MADE TO YOUR MEASURE
5 A each, or 28/6 half-dozen
Post Free 5/6 each, or 29/S half-dozen
-
Made in a better way from materials
that wear well and last longer than most
WHEN ORDERING PLEASE GIVE CHEST MEASURE-
MENT AND SIZE OF COLLAR USUALLY WORN
ĥ
ħ
h
- - >;
: v . *>
'
mm i
r:
m
ĥk
BRISBANE
TOWNSVILLE, TOOWOOMBA and LONDON.
THE AUSTRALASIAN EMPORIUM FOR MEN’S WEAR
V.
B
5


SELECT STYLES FROM WHICH TO=
GHOOSE YOUR RAINCOAT OR OVERCOAT
An Overcoat or Raincoat which combines distinction with utility is a
“two-fold” garment. Nicholson’s English Coats are the pick of the
“two-folders,” and Peppers’ is the place for the pick of them.
You want the latest, of course? Well, there isn’t a handsomer coat than
the Brown Frieze, with leather buttons, at 65/-.
The successor to the Macintosh is the Rubberless Talma. It is odorless,
light, soft and silky, and thoroughly proofed without the addition of rubber.
Prices : 35/-, 55/-, 63/-
In the event of your not being able to select personally, we agree to refund
money if our selecting isn’t in every way satisfactory.
PEPPERS LTD.,
THE GOOD-ARTICLE
MEN’S STORE,
■3lO GEORGE ST., near HUNTER ST.
GREATLY BENEFITED.
“I have been troubled with liver complaint since
I was 10 years of age, and under the doctor’s treat-
ment,” says Mrs. F. Donald, Hororata (N.Z.), “but I
found benefit from Chamberlain’s Tablets. On many
occasions when suffering from general debility I have
had reason to be thankful for such a mild and
gentle corrective as Chamberlain’s Tablets.”*
CAN’T SHAKE IT OFF.
How often we hear persons with colds make the
above remark ; but Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
shakes them off promptly and effectively in a few
doses. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s. Obtainable every-
where. *
ft
<5
Our large stock of the
latest Trusses for all
kinds of Hernia is a
real boon to sufferers.
Denyer’s Special Elastic
Truss, fitted to size,
ends all trouble, dis-
comfort and fear.
Call or Write.
vnbvnb
Single 17/6, Double 22/6.
Others from 3/6.
DENYER BROS..
Truss and Abdominal Belt Makers,
281 George St. (o PP . Hunter st.), Sydney
POLITICAL
POINTS
The proposed law to prohibit Japs from
owning land in California (U.S.) moved the
S. M. Herald to expound:—
The exclusion of such aliens is a matter of policy,
and not in any way a matter of vulgar prejudice. In
Australia we do not for a moment allege their inferi-
ority, but we think that racial difference is a good
ground for separation.... It is not a question of
relative merits * it is simply a Protective tariff
applied to- mankind, as well as to manufactures. It
is a matter neither for apology, nor for boasting.
It’s good to know, anyway, that Protection
requires no apology.
ONE GREAT MAN TO ANOTHER.
JACK M URRAY: “They tell me you are going
to retire! ” (Yawns.)
SMOODGEFUL JAMES: “Yes, I cant sleep at
night for thinking of all there is to be
done. ” (Yawns.)
JACK MURRAY: “Yes, I know. Ifs terrible.
But couldn't you hang an like me and sleep
in the day-time? ”
Cable news :—-
London, April 10.' —In the House of Commons yes-
terday Mr. Will Crooks (Labor) moved for an exten-
sion of the Trade Boards Act, so as to afford a
minimum wage of 30s. for every adult worker in urban
areas, and an approximately equal standard for every
adult worker in rural areas. Mr. Robertson (Liberal)
said a sum of £200,000,000 would be required to
secure a 30s. minimum weekly wage.
Three more cheers for Freetrade, the work-
ers’ salvation —the policy under which wages
are so magnificent that in a single nation it
would take a mere £200,000,000 to put them
on a 305.-a-week basis!
Thus Yawn Murray, of Victoria, giving
an unconscious leg-up to the proposal that
the Commonwealth should be endowed with
extended powers
It is not only the selling of gold in the State we
want to stop, but the selling of gold across the
border. We want uniform legislation. .. .Victoria’s
legislation is nullified beyond its borders. Dealing
in illicit gold is allowed by another State.
If Murray wants “uniform legislation” be-
fore he goes to sleep finally he had better
stretch himself on behalf of the Referenda.
The Trade and Commerce clause amendment
asked for by the Fisher Government would fit
Murray’s requirement right down to his
tired old boots.
[Patrick Thomas Freeman, 22 Cleveland-street,
Darlington, Sydney. ]
Nowadays Federal Minister King O’Mal-
ley divides the community into two classes
—“brothers” and “roosters.” A brother
thinks the way he does, and a rooster thinks
the way he doesn’t.
It is officially estimated that the average
wages of factory employees in the Common-
wealth were £77 6s. sd. per head per annum
in 1907; £Bl (190 S) ; £B3 (1909) ; £B7 Is.
2d. (1910) ; and £92 ss. (1911). The manu-
facturer who has to pay these increased
wages finds that rents havo also gone up,
and the cost of materials has ascended, and
in many cases interest has “riz.” But the
barrier which stands between him and out-
side low-wage competition hasn’t “riz” in
the least. And when he asked for a rise he
was told by jeering politicians that he
couldn’t get it till the New Protection came
along to guarantee that he would increase
his employees’ remuneration as his own
chances improved, which was no great joy
for a man who was, of necessity, increasing
his employees’ wages all the time, while his
own chances remained nailed down in the
old snot. Andrew Fisher’s declaration in
favor of an increased tariff arrived not a
moment too soon, and it is to be hoped that
the bilious evil genius of the Cabinet won’t
persuade him to weaken on his policy.
[James Edmond, The Bulletin Office, 214 George-
street, Sydney.]
Dear Bulletin, —“Daphne Gaskell” and
a few others who are making a press riot
over the case of Madam Poon Gooey, seem
to be under the impression that the order
for deportation has been suddenly sprung on
this unfortunately prolific lady. This was
not so. She was ad-
mitted to the country
only on the disti'nct
understanding that she
should stay si x
months, and no more.
She has managed to
spin out the six
months to two yegrs,
which is a much
greater margin than
any private landlord
would allow if the
lease had expired, and
he had refused to re-
new it. Apparently
Daphne, in her sweet
innocence of the
world, and owing to a
somewhat defective ed-
ucation on commercial
lines, does not under-
stand that business
agreements have the
same sanctity as any
other sort of engage-
ment or promise. Mrs.
Poon Gooey has delib-
erately broken her
solemn agreement sev-
eral times over, so
that if there were no
law to compel her to
go, her own conscience
as an upright, honor-
able Chinese lady would make it necessary
for her to leave.—Yours, etc., Snowdrop
Smith.
Melbourne Argus indulges in some ele-
phantine humor over the Referendum amend-
ment dealing with trusts, combines and mon-
opolies. “One proposal seeks power to con-
vert any business into a monopoly by Par-
liament simply declaring it to be such. It
then becomes a monopoly in law whether it
is a monopoly in fact or not. It sounds like
a joke.” Possibly it does, but there are even
more remarkable things on the Argus’s own
local doorstep, and some of them have been
there for a long time. For instance, there
is a law in Victoria against thistles, and in
order to prevent waste of time in legislation,
whenever a new plague turns up the Gov-
ernor-in-Council has authority to declare any
new annoyance “a thistle within the mean-
ing of the Act,” and order its destruction. It
could declare wheat, aldermen, railways and,
perhaps even the Argus, thistles, and the
Argus, being much consumed by asses, might
almost answer the description. If Victorian
law could be enforced all over the Common-
wealth, the Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
might possibly be put on the thistle list.
[James Edmond, The Bulletin Office, 214 George-
street, Sydney.]
Thus a Victorian Conservative candidate:
The Senate is like a saucer into which a man pours
his tea to cool it. But in Australia the saucer is
hotter than the cup.
That figure of speech was originally ascribed
to George Washington, and in Washington’s
day the salt of the earth might drink out of
its saucer without being cast into outer
darkness. But the Very Best People have
abandoned the saucer now. And if the
Senate is a saucer — !! ! ? —* ;!!???
PICTURESQUE PANKHURST.
Mrs. Pankhurst was tempted with nicely-cooked
food, such as chops, steak, chickens, etc., and as her
strength declined, more delicate dishes in the shape
of custards and jellies were placed before her.
PRISON WAITER: "Is there any other little
delicacy I can get for you, ma'am?”
THE PANKHURST: “Take that nasty stuƒƒ
away and bring me all the daily papers.
I want to read what they say. Notoriety
is the food for me!”
Melbourne Argus heartily cheers Joe
Cook’s announcement that he will not abol-
ish the Australian navy, or spend a bob less
on it than the Laborites propose to, or revert
to the system of subsidising the Motherland’s
fleet, or abolish the Land Tax, or do away
with “Conscription,” or wipe out the Baby
Bonus, or undo any one of the alleged in-
famies of the Fisher regime. “It will be
enough,” says the Tory rag, “if the Liberals
say that the debauchery has gone far enough,
and that they will not allow it to go any
further.” Which is as if the Fusion were
to declare that burning cities were wasteful
and dangerous features of the landscape, and
that, therefore, though they are not prepared
to put out those at present burning, they will
not light any more on their own account.
[Albert John Owen, 129 Grey-street, East Mel-
bourne.]
Speaking as a strong Protectionist in the
stress of a Federal election, it seems to me
that the local soul-saving industry does not
receive fair treatment; which, perhaps, is
why the said industry is in such a disorgan-
ised and deplorable condition. Whenever
there is a good billet vacant in the Anglican
Church, it is filled by an importation from
the Cold Country. But, worst still, the
local snatcher of brands from the burning is
subjected to unfair competition from bands
of marauding Yankees. These holy brigands
take out of the country much coin, and
bring into it nothing but noise and a strong
odor of hair oil and boot polish. If there is
a quantity of local coin which the owners
yearn to devote to unworthy uses, let them
present it to the local gospel-monger (who
may spend it locally) rather than to the
operator from abroad. Here in Melbourne
we have another batch of Yankee quick-
lunch evangelists. Other considerations
apart, TJncle Sam’s frequent attempts to save
this country’s immortal soul savor rather of
Satan rebuking “musical chairs,” or some
such mild form of dissipation. If the local
Word-Spinner is not protected by a prohibi-
tive duty upon foreign wowse and religious
rant, the vendors of these goods should be
deemed undesirable immigrants, and asked,
as a language test, to read a Chinese version
of Elinor Glyn’s “Three Weeks.”
[Albert John Owen, 129 Grey-street, East Mel-
bourne.]
“Montague Bug” writes :
The attention of William McLinen, of the Cham-
ber of Commerce; of Goddard, Esq., and
the Stock Exchange is hereby called to the fact that
the S. M. Herald has gone on strike. This is a
most serious matter. To use its own dignified lan-
guage, the Herald has been “educating the people
on the issues submitted to them” for more years
than some of us can remember when we are sober,
and more than any of us can recall when we are
tight. But to-day (Thursday) it has, I believe, gone
on strike. It flatly declines to educate the people
worth tuppence, and the country can go to Beelze-
bub’s grandfather. The case is one of urgency. I
would suggest that Mr. McLinen and the rest form
a deputation to wait upon Minister Carmichael, wTh
a view to inducing him to effect a settlement. Mr.
McLinen might address the Minister as follows: “We
regret to have to bring before your notice what is,
nerhaps, the most serious strike of modern times.
The great morning paper of Sydney, which is ali
Australia, and more, has to a certain extent left off. For
generations that great organ of public opinion has
educated the people on the issues submitted to them,
and helped them to come to right-thinking de-
cisions. The country is in the throes of a general
election and is torn by conflicting emotions. It is
necessary that the people should be educated to pre-
vent them falling, skin, hair and bones, into the
maw of the Socialistic tiger. It is the duty of the
Press to educate the public, just as it is the duty
of the ferries to transport them and the police to
protect them. This refusal to educate the peonle and
enable them to arrive at a nroper decision on the
great questions submitted to them, is intolerable,
and we would earnestly impress upon you that this
is no time for half measures. We have a law
which renders striking illegal—let it be set in
motion.” A deputation on those lines would create
a profound impression.
[ln case of trouble, “Montague Bug” is C.
A. Jeffries, The Bulletin Office, 214 George-
street, Sydney. He signs under protest.]
Two interesting remarks by N.SAV. State
Premier Wade, the other night, when speak-
ing on behalf of the Fusion and Trust Party
against the Referenda: “Whatever may be
the relative merits of Freetrade and Protec-
tion is immaterial n0w.”....“1n America
the proverb has arisen that ‘the tariff i s the
mother of Trusts.’ ” So Gregory Wade be-
lieves the existence of Trusts is owing to
the tariff, and at the same time he thinks
the tariff is “immaterial now.”
[C. A. JefEries, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
When recently a num-
ber of probation officers
administering Victoria’s
Indeterminate Sentence
law visited Pentridge
Gaol, one prisoner put
them a question that sent
them away thinking. Il e
was employed at mat-
making, took much in-
terest in his work, and
was reported as being fit
for release —-and he asked
the 30 visitors if any 0 f
them could find work for
him at that trade when
he got out. Of course
they couldn’t, there being
no mat-making industry
worth mentioning in Vic-
toria outside the blessed
old gaol. When a vast
multitude of prisoners are
kept at one industry that
industry is killed outside
by their competition, so
that it is no good to
them when they get out.
Also, it has become
known as a gaol indus-
try, and their proficiency at it brands
the released as gaol birds. Therefore a gaol
ought to be an industrial city on a small
scale, or a technical college. In fact, it
should teach almost every lawful calling ex-
cept ballooning, professional pedestrianism
and navigation.
That notoriously fatigued person, John
Weary, of Victoria, has ideas at times; the
trouble is he is too horizontal to carry them
out. Thus, at the opening of a new tram-
line from Malvern to St. Kilda beach, which
will be worked by the successful P’ran-Mal-
vern Trust, he said he “did not know of
any function more properly belonging to
municipal councils than the provision of
transit facilities. But the matter must be
dealt with comprehensively, not piecemeal.”
Exactly! Also hooray! The whole Mel-
bourne tramway system will come into the
hands of the Melbourne municipal councils
a short three years hence, and so far not a
solitary step has been taken to form a com-
prehensive body to manage it. Also, in his
pre-election speech at Warrnambool, the
same John Tired promised a Bill to create
a Greater Melbourne Council, which could
deal with tramway and other matters, but
so far there is no sign of that Bill material-
ising.
IN OTHER [TORES
If I were compelled to write a recipe for the re-
duction of the present high cost of living in Aus-
tralia over and above the increases common to the
world, I should do it in a sentence, namely: “The
restoration of honest, economical and efficient govern-
ment throughout Australia.”
“Give me offs! I'm it!"
After April 24 it will be a penal offence
to publish untruthful statements liable to in-
fluence the election. Will the Sydney Tele-
graph, after that date, be game to publish
what it did on April 18, when it got this off
its chest: —
The real reason is that the Government’s ultimate
aims are unification and nationalisation.
Do you desire to see the States abolished? Do you
wish your business, your shop, your factory taken
over by the Government ?
If you do not desire these things vote “No” on
May 31.
The writer is a poor man, but he is game to
wager a new hat the Telegraph will not say
that sort of thing after April 24.
[C. A. Jeffries, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
REVOLUTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Of the total membership of 870, there were present
177 senators (members of the Tsan-i-yuan—Criticis-
ing or Examining House) and 500 Representatives
(members of the Chung-i-yuan—Popular Discussion
House). They gathered in the Lower House, and
nearly all of them wore frock-coats and top-hats.
— Cable.
Sin Fat throws off his wooden shoe,
To half an inch he trims each nail,
Just as the Europeans doi
To Progress, once a thing of bale,
He sacrifices e’en his tail.
Sin shaves his chin of seven hairs,
And drops his ancient nasal chants
To learn a dozen rag-time airs.
His native creed he now recants,
And tucks his shirt inside his pants.
The jerkin of his fatherland,
With honored buttons so ornate,
He parts with for a frock-coat, and
To be supremely up to date
He sticks a top-hat on his pate.
Behold Sin coated English style,
In German boots his feet are pressed,
His head upbears a Paris tile.
The revolution has been blessed,
And China’s wrongs are all re-dressed !
victoria.
SILAS SNELL.


m
m
V'.'/
mm
Ihe value of a Piano is calculated more
by the satisfaction it gives, and its
durability, than by the money required to
purchase it. If the RELIABLE
RONISCH
PIANOS
were priced according' to the great satisfaction they give
they would be among the highest priced pianos made.
MODERATELY PRICED SOLD ON EASY TERMS.
BONISCH PIANOS are manufactured from the very finest
materials, in one of the most modernly-equipped and up-to-
date factories in the world. Only the highest skilled artisans
are engaged, and they work under the supervision of experts
of life-long experience.
BOA ISCH PIANOS are justly celebrated the world over for
their delightful tone and superb musical qualities. Their
tone is full, riph and pure—their touch responds immediately
the fingers touch the keys.
RONISCH PIANOS, besides being perfect in tone and touch,
are sound and solid throughout their entire construction.
They are handsome in appearance, beautifully finished, and
are worthy of a place in the very finest homes. We have a
large selection of RONISCH PIANOS, in Grand and Upright
Models, all cased artistically and of the highest possible
quality throughout. We invite you to visit our Show Rooms
at any time, and inspect these superb instruments. Catalogues
and price lists post free to those unable to call. Easy Time
Payments ananged and old Pianos taken in part pavment.
W. H. PALING (& CO. LTD.,
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And at NEWCASTLE, LISMORE, BRISBANE,
TOOWOOMBA.
m
Stewart Dawson 8 Co.
(AUST.) LTD.
Always the newest—always the daintiest —
always the most attractive of goods at Stewart
Dawson's Famous FIRST COST PRICES.
This Delightful Cameo Jewellery is the latest
popular fashion.
03414 —CAMEO BANGLE,
32/6.
Larger sizes, with 3-row
Bangle,
d£4, £4/10/- &L £5.
D3S67—CAMEO RING,
17/6.
CAMEO RING,
10 o.
We Pay Postage on all Goods to any address,
WRITE FOR A COPY OF OUR BEAUTIFUL ILLUSTRATED
ART CATALOGUE.
Strand Corner, 412 George St., Sydney.
AUSTRALIA: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND: Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin.
LONDON : 73 to 81 Regent Street, W.; and 19 to 21 Hatton Garden, E.C.
THE
n
ERNEMANN IMPERATOR
as
m
kti
m
m
THIS ALL STEEL BIOSCOPE IS USED IN ALL THE
BEST PICTURE THEATRES IN THE WORLD.
GET IN LINE. WRITE FOR FULL PARTICULARS, Etc.
Sole Agents for Australia,
IL D
380 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, AUCKLAND (N.Z.),
and WELLINGTON (N.Z.).


Missing Friends.
DENNIS. —If this should meet the eye
of PETER DENNIS, or anyone know-
ing his whereabouts, please communicate
with LANG & WARE, Commission Agents,
Bourke, N.S.W.
IF the descendants of MARIA ANDREWS,
whose maiden name was MORRISH, for-
merly of Landkey, North Devon, England,
will apply to A. E. HOPPER, Solicitor,
Barnstaple, England, they may hear of
something to their advantage.
NFORMATI6N is required of SIDNEY
ELLIS, son of NORMAN ELLIS, last
heard of at Mary Street, Ivew, Victoria, who
will hear something to his advantage by
communicating with „
J. W. MACDONALD,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
HE children of DENIS CARR, otherwise calif)
CHARLES DENIS CARRON, otherwise called
CHARLES DAVID CARRON, late of Wharehme
near Port Albert, Auckland (New Zealand), will
hear of something to their advantage by communi-
cating with J. W. MACDONALD, Solicitor to the
Public Trust Office, Wellington, New Zealand.
THE relatives of GREENLAWS WARNER, late of
Invercargill (New Zealand), Laborer, will hear
something to their advantage if they communicate
with J. W. MACDONALD, Solicitor to the Public
Trust Office, Wellington, New Zealand
Brothers and sisters of Joseph porter,
late of D’Urville Island (New Zealand), Bush
Feller, will hear of something to their advantage
by communicating with J. W. MACDONALD,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office, Wellington, New
Zealand. . .
Representatives of RICHARD WEBB, Wanted.
THE representatives of RICHARD
WEBB, of London, who were passen-
gers by the steamer Formosa at Albany, m
Western Australia, in or about January.
1853, will hear of something to their ad-
vantage by communicating with
STONE & BURT, Solicitors,
Hay Street, Perth (W.A.).
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Absolutely Pure.
No Preservatives.
s/lWs
E. RESCH’S LIMITED , Brewer by Appoint-
ment to his Excellency the Governor-General.
Brewery and Offices : Dowling Street, Redfern, Sydney
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
vb ñ
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
nbvnv
TO
H.M. THE KINO.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
nb vnb
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The much-looked-forward-to battle between
Jerry Jerome and Dave Smith at Sydney Stadium,
on Saturday night, drew an enormous concourse. For
weeks this battle had been the topic of conversation,
and, apparently, everybody who had mentioned it
called in to see it. Jerome was as crafty as men are
made, and as patient as Job. (Job was a bitter
grumbler on an ash-heap in Western Asia, and cursed
the da}' of his birth in his third chapter, third and
fourth verses, but he has somehow got the reputa-
tion.) There was one particular wallop which he
felt certain would out Smith could he but get it
home, and he took punishment, feinted, played ’pos-
sum, and resorted to all manner of devices to get in
what he considered his all-conquering body punch.
But Smith was full of respect for the aboriginal, and
he was just as determined that Jerome should not
get that wallop home. As the best defence is to be
the aggressive party all the time, he sailed in with
a crouch, head to" head, and banged Jerome’s top-
piece unmercifully. Sometimes he hit him on the
top of the head, sometimes on the temple, sometimes
on the back of the neck; but wherever the hits lan-
ded they must have hurt, for Smith never hit harder
than he did on Saturday night. Jerome gave up
leading with his left, and made his right his engine
of war. That disconcerted Smith badly. Time and
again Smith would appear to have the elusive black
hopelessly cornered. Jeremiah Jerome would stand,
apparently helpless, swaying his body from side to
side, and suddenly one sway would be longer than
the others, and Jeremiah would be gone, carrying
his Book of Lamentations with him. He said after-
wards that he hurt his left in the second round, and
thereafter it was not much good to him for offence.
But in any case, there is little doubt the white man
would have won. He was too skilful for the crude,
though bewildering, black, and if he could catch
him, Jerome was gone a million. Jerome didn’t
have the better of a solitary round. Smith was top
dog all the time, although, admittedly, a very wor-
ried and anxious dog, with his kennel weighing
heavily on his chest. In the 18th round Jerome
incautiously lifted his chin out of his chest, where
he had kept it buried throughout the scrap, and, like
lightning, Smith smote him on it. Down went
Jerry, and they counted 10 over him, and Jerry’s
dream was over. He had failed to put up the amaz-
ing fight he did with his French antagonist, but
then he was up against a different sort of fighter,
and taking all the circumstances into account, he
did remarkably well to last as long as he did.
* * * *
The Summers-Goodwin fight, at the Syd-
ney Stadium, was a comparatively easy affair for the
' English boxer. Jack Read was to have met Summers the
previous Wednesday night, but a half-recovered
nose caused him to draw out. The rest of him was
up, but the nose was still in bed. Then came the
problem of filling the gap. Summers is a man worth
beating, and the only cove on the spot able and fit
to take him on was Alf Goodwin, Who was about
lighter, but in the pink of condition and the
acme of high spirits. It was the chance of his life
—a sudden opening to fame and rich scraps. Natur-
ally, he clawed the opportunity with both .hands.
But, alas, for the golden opportunity that has a
twist in the tail! Goodwin was not able to turn the
chance to account. He had neither the speed nor
the wallop. He lacked the spank, and the biff was
not in him. Summers, who is now saving his hands
all he knows, played for stomach and ribs, and
landed nine times out of 10. Goodwin was brave, but
those collisions on the midriff and side-muscles
doubled him up. Occasionally, to show he was quite
unprejudiced, Summers would clout unmercifully on
the nobility. Still, in spite of impending disaster,
Goodwin fought on doggedly, and landed a few that
showed that he could still sting. The end came in the
ninth, when Summers opened with a left on the
mouth, and received something on the middle of the
countenance in return. Summers came in to kill,
but Goodwin had slipped down. As he slipped up
he stopped a right and left with his digestion, and
went down for seven. He arose from the temporary
dead, only to be knocked down again twice in short
order. Then, as he resurrected once more, battered
but uncowed, referee Scott interfered, and declared
Summers the winner. It was' a timely intervention.
“F.C.” concludes: I don’t want to enter
on a profitless controversy with “0.K.” about the
proposed charge to Flemington Flat, but as he em-
phasises only two points in his reply (B. 10/4/T3),
I will answer them. First. “The entertainment a
Flatite gets (and which “0.K.” says he should pay
for) is a fairly, or quite, close view of the race at
any point he may choose, whereas the paying public
gets no view of the race except when the horses are
in the straight.” The reverse is the case! A few
Flatites who don’t mind getting crushed against
the outer or steeplechase course fence, get a brief
glimpse of the flying horses, and no more. The vast
majority see nothing whatever, save a brief glimpse
of a jockey’s cap. The paying public, either in the
grandstand or on it, in the Maribyrnong Stand or on
the Hill, sees the whole race from start to finish.
The fact is obvious. Second. “If Flemington had
been under the control of trustees like the M.C.
ground, entrance fees would have been charged from
the beginning, the M.C.C. never having admitted the
public to its flat free on Test match days.” Not
exactly, but it admits the public free to see the last
hour’s pla.v on “Test” days, and to the last half-
hour of football finals, and it admits the public free
to most, if not all, of its club cricket matches, be-
sides many other shows. Moreover, being held by
trustees, the M.C. ground isn’t handed over to the
M.C.C. to be kept solely for cricket or for money-
making purposes. In this matter it is interesting to
note that Melbourne City Council, as well as minor
bodies, is backing up Footscray Council in its pro-
test against the charge to the Flat. According to
Alderman Jeffries and V.R.C. sec. Byron Moore,
Flemington is a Crown grant vested in trustees for
racing purposes, wherefore, without the trustees’ per-
mission, the V.R.C. has no more right to fence it
in than it has to fence in the Saltwater River —-
which, by the way, it did once. Anyhow, somebody
might advantageously pour a lot of light on this
business. If the V.R.C. has the legal right to charge
admission to the Flat, or if the whole parcel of land
is vested in trustees, why did the club recently call
on Acting-Premier Murray and arrange for an order
empowering it to so cha. "e? Who are these trustees
and what powers have they? Also, what standing
has the V.R.C. any more than any other public
racing club ?
* * * *
“Aero”: Paul Gans, according to cable,
attempts an air voyage from Las Palmas to the West,
Indies, altogether across 3000 miles of ocean, from
within 60 miles of the African coast to the American
coast. This will make the cross, from Ireland to
America, as planned by Graham White, look an easy
thing. Gans is a German chemist and a millionaire;
invented the best motor-cycle; built and flew in
many balloons ; one of the first successful aeorplan-
ists; a very careful man and indefatigable experi-
menter. He has climbed over the windy rocks and
crags of Teneriffe, with an expert meteorologist,
testing air currents, working out the possibilities of
storms and changes of temperature. The route he
takes from Africa to America is to catch the north-
east trades. The car is a complete motor-boat. Esti-
mated average speed in air, 28 miles an hour, which
he has kept up for four or five days. Graham White
expects to cross in 33 hours. Gans, according to his
programme circulated some weeks ago, takes five
men with him.
* * * *
The first event of the billiard season in
Melbourne was a show game of 16,000 up, between
Fred Lindrum and Williams, the Australian champion
abstaining from the deadly hazard striking in order
to make a close go of it. Both men played prettily
throughout the long journey, and, as an object-
lesson in all-round billiards, it was an interesting
display, neither artist keeping the lead for long at
a stretch. This week, at Alcock’s room, George
Gray is playing Tom Aiken, the new man from
Britain, and a possible champion of the near future.
Gray, it seems, can be matched against his old
opponent Lindrum, on terms laid down by Gray,
senior. The record-breaker will give 3000 in 18,000
to Lindrum, in what would be practically a losing-
hazard trial of endurance with bonzoline balls. But
seeing that father Gray stipulates for “the sum
of £2OOO for my son’s services, win or lose,” the match
is hardly likely to eventuate. He talks as though
son George were a champion stousher, and the fight
could be decided on points in a stadium.
* * * *
Last Saturday and Monday saw the last,
final and ultimate game of the Victorian cricket
season, between those hefty battlers, ’Roy and ’Wood,
who had respectively outed South and ’.Varsity the
previous Saturday. There was little to choose be-
tween the teams, and when ’Wood won the toss It
gained an advantage which it did not make the most
of. Only veteran Fry and youngster Mutch made
good, with 48 and 28 respectively, and in three
hours the innings closed for 195. ’Roy contrived
to lose one wicket for three in the few minutes left
before the umpires declared the light too bad for
play. Then the unusually large crowd of 8000 —at
6d. per head —departed with mixed feelings. On the
Monday ’Roy continued its innings, but found the
bowling of Ryder, Fry and co. too good, and Col-
lingwood eventually won by 117 runs on the first
innings. Thereby it annexed the pennant and the
glory for the fifst time in many years.
A new Australian wallop. Dave Smith , at the
Sydney Stadium , administers the “rabbit-
killer" punch on the vanquished abe.
Jerome. Vulnerable spot marked X.
The mislaid ninth round of Sydney First-
Grade Cricket was dragged to light again last Satur-
day, because the playing of it made it possible for
University to overtake North Sydney, and then play
off for the premiership. University had to meet
Paddington and North Sydney had to meet Sydney
District. The trouble was that the wickets were
bad, and the skipper who won the toss had the
chance of sending his opponents to bat in diffi-
culties. Sydney and University called correctly, and
sent North and Paddington to the sticks. Natur-
ally, the chief interest centred on the Northern
team, as it was felt that Paddington’s defeat in
the circumstances was inevitable. But would Syd-
ney be able to smash up the team from North Shore?
Well, but for Hopkins, Sydney certainly would have
done it, for out of a total score of 271, no less than
146 were contributed by the doughty Hop. Sydney
then made a start and promptly lost two wickets
for 16 runs. University was not in too great a
hurry to get Paddington out, and demolished its
victim without undue rush, for 155, of which 25
were sundries. When University got going, it bat-
tered up 47 without losing a stick. Farrar and
Stack did some good bowling for University, Farrar
taking three for 17 and Stack three for 27. For
Sydney, Cohen took three Northern wickets for 31,
and Collins smashed up a whole seven for 103 —a
sort of wholesale order. Doubtless he got a reduc-
tion for taking a quantity. Altogether, University’s
chances of overtaking North Sydney do not look too
rosy.
“Brickbat” : The South Australian cricket
season petered out last Saturday, in a cold, despairing
fashion. East Torrens, the team Mayne plays for,
made a Marathon of the honors by wiping out every
club it met, and long before the close players, press
and public were loudly shouting out “Nuff.” When
everybody in the drama is dead except the hero, what
is the use of going on with the two final acts ?
’Varsity, indeed, couldn’t muster sufficient men to
play its last game, and only by draggin" in cricket
deadbeats were several other clubs able to keep their
final appointments. Public interest in the whole
feeble business staggered below zero, and how the
State managed to purloin the Sheffield Shield is one
of those mysteries the answer to which not even the
Sphinx feels inclined to cough up in the Egyptian
desert. The trouble with Adelaide cricket is that it
is suffering from the deadly blight of the old stager.
The veterans, whose aged influence permeates the
whole association, bowl all the afternoon and put
themselves in first, while the young blood looks on
with the cow-like gaze of the faithful, believing that
his chance must come if he can only hang out long
enough to become a veteran. The public is so fed-
up of its cricket Methuselahs that it stays away from
the matches with applause and in large numbers.
How much longer the younger generation will stand
being put in last, never given a chance to bowl, and
made to field all day in the broiling sun. is an open
question, and it is up to the S.A. Cricketing Associa-
tion to act in double-quick time if it wants to
save the game from the devastation of dry rot and
senile decay. Nobody will blame the young fellows
if they hand over the whole box and dice to the
hoary ones next year.
* * * *
There was excitement at Sydney Sports
Ground on Saturday, when about 6000 people went
almost mad over a practice match between South
Sydney and Glebe. Both teams were in perfect con-
dition, and play was strenuous from the jump.
Glebe let loose a series of charges, which, though
blocked and hauled down again and again, kept
forcing the score up till it stood at 17 to two. And
there it stuck. Glebe reckoned it had done enough,
and saved its strength to repel any sudden upheaval
of South Sydney. Only 10 minutes or so to go, and
the prospect beautiful. Then, without warning, the
upheaval took place, and the devil broke loose, and
the top of the volcano blew off. Glebe suddenly
found itself attacked by a horde of demons, who ran
over it, stamped it flat, or dragged half the team
with it over its own goal line. There was a giant
abroad—a flying machine named Thompson —and he
flew over the line again and again. But for time
running out the game would have ended in the route
of Glebe. As it was, darkness saved a debacle, and
the game ended 17 all.
The Soccer crowd also indulged in practice
matches, but none of their struggles produced any
undue excitement. The men have not hardened up,
and took things easily. Soccer expanded enormously
last year, and theatens to do so still more this year.
There is now a Commonwealth Association, and it
has fixed up a programme which provides for riots
between N.S.W., Queensland, Victoria and South
Australia, during the present season. It will cer-
tainly be the most widely diffused form of football
in Australia; and it has been worked up to its
present state in the face of all sorts of difficulties.
Probably much of this success is due to the fact that
John Nobbs, M.L.A., has been at the head of the
N.S.W. body for 26 years. He has now been elevated
to the dignity of vice-president of the Common-
wealth Association. It is a national misfortune that
J. Nobbs isn’t as great a politician as he is a foot-
ball organiser.
* * * *
Harry Pearce and E. Barry last week
signed the articles to govern their contest for the
world’s champ onship. The date is fixed for June
21, and Barry has generously thrown his Champion-
ship of England on the table as well as his planet
title. So Pearce has a fair chance to cover—not to
say overload—himself with sculling glories.
* * * *
Last week some Maorilanders cabled Barry
asking him to go to Maoriland and race an Unknown
at Mokau, somewhere up north, for £lOOO. But
Barry did not spring at the golden bait as readily
as was expected, and negotiations seem to be off.
Now, who the dickens is this Unknown, whose
backers think so much of him as to back him for
£lOOO against the world’s champion? Are you
listening, Dick Arnst? Or do you know anything,
■Richard ?
The Parramatta River Professional Scul-
ling club has invented a new championship, that of
N. S. Wales, and the event was put up for competi-
tion Saturday last in an all-comers’ race on the
classic N.S.W. river. The carnival had started the
previous Saturday, but the State Championship did
not eventuate till the final afternoon. The seekers
of the new gewgaw were Charles Towns, he who for a
time was champion of the world by the grace of his
brother; M’Devitt, from Tasmania; Syd Pearce;
Ripley and G. Jaek. Goggin was to have been there
too, but a cold prevented him, so the five had it to
themselves. The outward and visible sign is a
Shield, presented by a well-known Sydney firm. It
was accompanied by £65 of solid cash; which is a
useful thing to have about the place. The race
itself was a stubborn affair, out of which Jack soon
dropped. For the rest a handkerchief might have
been dropped over the whole crowd, so to speak. In
the final sprint Towns was in front, closely followed
by Ripley, with Pearce and M’Devitt racing neck
and neck for third place. Right on the winning
line the Tasmanian fell overboard and Pearce fin-
ished third.
* # * *
The claim and counter-claim wrangle of
bookmakers Fred O’Neill and Edward Kelly (both of
them largely dis-registered by the V.R.C.) never
arrived at the legal hearing which might have
thrown another lurid flashlight on the ways of a
Toteless Turf. O’Neill had an admitted agreement
with Kelly that the latter should lay the odds against
certain horses (presumably “dead”) and divide the
winnings with him, O’Neill. Kelly laid the odds
and paid certain amounts over to his instructor, but
the latter claimed that he wasn’t getting a full half-
share of the profits. Kelly, on the other hand, sued
O’Neill for £5lB, which money he had invested on
certain horses with other bookmakers on O’Neill’s
account. It had been easier, apparently, for O’Neill
to indicate the gees that were going to lose than to
pick the other gees that were going to win. The
case petered out in a manner equally disappointing
to the public and disconcerting to the Bar. O’Neill
suddenly abandoned his idea of turning the court into
a wash-house. He planked Kelly’s £5lB in notes
and gold upon the lawyer’s table, and withdrew his
own claim to the alleged balance of profits, which he
had never received. Whereupon, Barrister McArthur
reminded the learned Judge that Costs were also
due against the oof-planker. McArthur suggested
something between £l5O and £2OO, but after a
brief discussion, in which the ready-money book-
maker took no part, the Costs claim was boiled down
to £lOO, which the victim promised to pay. In fact,
he paid down on the nail. Then the public trickled
out of court, remarking that O’Neill’s attempt to
bluff Kelly out of a goodly sum was not more of a
failure than the legal attempt to bluff an undue sum
of Costs out of O’Neill aforesaid. Costs got a full
exposure, anyhow.
That wonderful Danish bike rider, Elle-
gaard, is still on deck, and quite recently met
Kramer, the speed champion of America and pre-
sent champion of the world. Kramer managed to
beat the Dane, but it was by. the narrowest margin.
These cycPsts seem to be weil-nigh immortal. For 10
years Frank Kramer has been roof dog in Yankee-
land. Ellegaard won his first world championship
away back in 1901, and five times afterwards he
repeated the trick, the last time being in 1911 at
Rome. It is nine years since Ellegaard was in Aus-
tralia. And still he is going strong.
* * * *
Still they come! During 1912, f 1,801,420
was sent abroad by Australia for motor-cars and
buzz-bikes—an increase of £564,402 over the amount
spent the previous year. If we had a decent patent
law, the bulk of that money would be spent in Aus-
tralia. And that money represents the invoiced
price to the importer, not the selling price to the
public. The selling price probably amounted to
£4,250,000.
The internal not in Victorian cycledom
has now spread to South Australia, the cvclktl
there having foolishly allowed themselves to h!
dragged into opposing camps by letting their fJt
ings get away with their brains. The game is hon*
lessly disorganised, and there is nothing to show ™
the other side of the ledger. To make matte™
worse, the Dunlop Rubber Co., the biggest promoter
of cycling events in Australia, which has sDent
thousands of pounds organising long-distance races
in every State, including the grand final of them all
(the Warrnambool), has got the hump, it has
already cut the Warrnambool out, and because of
the spread of the miserable squabble, it now threatens
to cut out the State Dunlop races. If it does, cyel
will suffer, for just at present there is no’sign on
the horizon of anyone else who is likely to splash
money so lavishly. F
Jacob de Rosier, the daredevil Canadian
motor-cyclist, who was so grievously smashed up 12
months ago, died recently. He never got over that
smash, and death came to the fastest man on earth
in the guise of a friend who brought relief from
suffering. Speed-riding on motor cycles is a mugs
game. The end is always the same, and the record
path leads to an early grave. In this case it was
33 years early.
Said that one ounce of camphor dissolved
in five gallons of petrol ensures easier starting, ac-
celeration, and reduction of fuel consumption. ’ As
there is absolutely no danger in the experiment, it
is worth trying.
The Victorian horde of bowlers who in-
vaded Westralia struck a willy-willy, or somethin"
equally devastating. In the tests the ’Gropers won
two by 106 to 76 and 84 to 79, while Victoria won
the odd one by 111 to 90. On the journey, the Vic-
torian team fell on South Australia, and belted it
good and hard by 111 to 79. Westralia has hitherto
been, in a sort of way, regarded as outside the pale
of civilisation as regards bowling. This wrecking of
a crack Victorian team threatens to upset the bal-
ance of power, so to speak.
* * * *
It has come! The Carlton (Vic.) football
club, moved by the complaints of its own and visit-
ing players, who had to fight their way with an axe
through the crowd from the dressing-room to the
ground, has constructed a fool-proof subway between
these points. No more will “Sowths” enter the field
at Carlton punctured by the hatpins of vicious female
supporters of the home team. No more will the
’bailers, filing out for the last quarter, be pounded
and jabbed by the fists of friends and foes alike, and
walloped by the sticks and umbrellas of those who
“have a bit both ways.” In the future the battle
will be confined to the field. It is to be hoped that
the subway is bomb-prof, armor-plated, and fitted
with collision bulk-heads, and that it won’t capsize
and go down with all hands like the Waratah.
* * * *
Sydney Pardon, editor of Wisden’s
Cricket Annual, puts the position candidly: “I
venture to predict that when the Australians pay us
their next visit they will send over their strongest
team. In saying this, I am thinking far less of
patriotic considerations than of the stern force of
money. The experience of last summer showed that
in the matches with the counties and the Universi-
ties, an ordinary combination was not good enough
to attract the public in any 'Teat numbers.” Par-
don’s opinion that the Triangular Tournament is
that it was an “an experiment not likely to be re-
peated for many years to come —perhaps not in this
generation.”
Horseracing requires as many rules and
regulations as would serve to govern a kingdom.
Recently Byron Moore, of the V.R.C., brought out
another compilation of the Rules of Racing, which
cancels all previous editions published by the Club.
The neat little handbook contains, in re-arranged
form, all the rules adopted by each of the principal
clubs of the Commonwealth, interspersed with the
local rules of the V.R.C., these latter being printed
in red ink, whilst the rest of the printing is in
black. The horsey little volume has all the outward
respectability of a Book of Common Prayer.


Why Not Learn Boxing Before
the “Scrap” Not After?
i
i
1
i
I
1
I
I
«
i
1
1
1
I
I
1
l
i
I
i
I
i
i
1
I
1
i
I
f
i
i
I
i
i
i
1
i
1
I
Every man knows that he should learn to
/ box—-that he will be the better for it.
Some fellows learn before they get mixrd
J up in a squabble. They are then able to
; come out on top.
\ Other fellows first wait until they get a
; hiding—wait until their self-confidence is
; thrashed out of them. Then they learn.
; WHICH CLASS DO YOU BELONG TO?
; It will not take much thinking to con-
; vince you which you OUGHT to belong to.
Add a little will power to your judgment.
Resolve to learn at once. There’s no excuse
for you not knowing how to defend yourself.
I will teach you in your own home —your own
room.
I TEACH BOXING
BY POST
The instruction is practical, simple, and
easily understood. It thoroughly explains,
and illustrates every serviceable move in
Scientific Boxing.
fou reap the benefit of my many years’ experience and keen observation of the best moves of the
world s best boxers.
You now have the opportunity of cultivating your natural ability, of making good use of the
means which Nature gave you for protecting yourself.
You will surely be fair to yourself and learn Scientific Boxing.
Full particulars of my methods and fee for tuition are given in my interesting 32-,page
Booklet, “Scientific Boxing in Your Home.”
I’d like to send you a copy. Write for it, sending three penny stamps for postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BARER,
179 Belmont Building's,
CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Makel
your
own
Cigarette^
twice 1
as goodi
CIGARETTE
PAPER
BBST ax\& VmST
IF NOT PROCURABLE AT YOUR
TOBACCONIST APPLY TO THE AGENTS
Jacobs Bros. Iff 255® George Sf Sydney
L. W. DODGE § CO.
(VICTOR TRUMPER & DODGE LTD.)
CRICKET SEASONALITIES
All Cane Bats, Bound Blades, 5/6
each.
Cane and Rubber Spliced Handles,
8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 13/6, 15/-, 17/6, 20/-
The “ SPECIAL” Cross Rubber, 22/6.
The VICTOR DRIVER, 25/-
Victor Trumper & Dodge Ltd. Special,
30/-
BALLS—Leather Match, 4/6, 5/-, 5/3,
5/9, 6/3 each.
WlCKETS—BrassTopsandSteel Shod,
5/6, 6/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6 per set.
Leg Guards, Wicket-keeping Gaunt-
lets, Batting Cloves, Matting,
Boots and Shoes, Shirts, Sweaters,
Trousers, etc.
Our Illustrated Handbook of Sports
will be posted to you free on receipt of
your application.
317 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
vnbnb
SPORTSMEN KNOW
Know that the Best
Results can only be
obtained by using: the
Right Gear.
Have you
seen the
Sportsman's
Red Book ?
Just Issued.
Only a
Limited
Number.
*Ac./acKihs
\ 3<'°j
('tfu (r> •
’A
WRITE TO-DAY.
Post Free to all “ Bulletin ” Readers.
Edward Butler §S ons Ltd.
257 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at Brisbane & Warwick, Q.
rpHE Best Stories written by Australian
A Writers appear in The Lone Hand
Magazine. Price, 6d. monthly.
SHELL’
BENZINE
THE CLEAN
AND
POWERFUL SPIRIT
FOR ALL MOTORS
SOLOMON’S
CIGARILLOS*
n
THE SHILLING CIGAR IN
A SMALL SIZE.
They are something between a
Cigar and a Cigarette,
which makes them suit-
able for all occasions,
when other forms of
smoking fail to please.
They are put up in
three sizes.
In Tins of
20:
No. No. No.
1. 2. 3.
2/- 1/9 1/6
In Cedar
Boxes of 50:
4/9, 4/3,
3/9.
In Cedar
Boxes of
100:
9/-, 8/-, V-
Postage
extra.
Write for a
Copy of my
I lluBtrated
Catalogue
FREE.
Actual Size of Cigarillos.
A. M. SOLOMON,
Cigar Expert,
173 PITT ST., SYDNEY
A MONTHLY GUIDE for everything Aus-
tralian. That’s The Lone Hand. “A
marvellous sixpenn’orth !”
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
L. & F. CO., LIMITED.
ITi
Secure Highest Market Rates
for all consignments of Wool,
Wheat, Hides, Skins and Tallow
entrusted to them and render
returns promptly.
rwi
BLiGH STREET, SYDNEY.
THE HIGHEST STANDARD
of footwear excellence is fully upheld in
Rigney Shoes for gentlemen.
In quality, style, price and every detail the
Rigney Shoes are sure to give you every
satisfaction.
The Shoe illustrated is a Rigney Special—an
exact reproduction of the up-to-date, made-
to-order styles. Can be supplied in all
leathers —black or tan.
drippe .
18/6, 211—, 23/6 & 2SI-
Postage 9d. extra.
Send us your name and
address for a copy of our
new Catalog;.
Atfgfc -v
m,
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.,
“ The Men’s Exclusive High-Grade Shoe Parlors.”
305 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY;
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
&
■gw
25?
Vi
•t
DUNLOP
RUBBER CO.
Of Aust. Ltd.
All States
and N.Z.
The Surest
Evidence
til
DUNLOP
TYRES...
are giving the best
results is the ever
increasing num-
ber of Motorists
who will now use
nothing else.
It’s their fine uniform
high quality of Rubber
and Fabric, combined
with up - to - date
methods and expert
workmanship, that
ensures the user such
satisfactory results.
“Henry H.”: Again I write to protest
against the way the foolish Bull Govern-
ment attempts to put down the suffragette
movement. Consider the situation! The
United Kingdom, to begin with, has a super-
fluity of women. Many of them want the
vote. Many of the women who want the
vote are strenuous and able-bodied, as is
shown by the vast amount of smash, arson
and the like they are capable of. The Uaw
doesn’t know what to do with them. It puts
them in gaol, and lets them out at short
notice when they go on the hunger-strike.
Everything is confusion and deadlock. It
seems to me that the time is ripe under
these conditions for a revival of the old con-
vict system in a modified form. If able-
bodied young suffragettes were sent to Aus-
tralia on conviction, with a sentence of three
years domestic service at good wages (less
intentional breakages) with the vote thrown
in, they would probably boil over a good
deal at first, but most of them would simmer
down very soon and begin to mash a young
man over the back gate after dark. Those
who were very unmanageable could be sent
to dairy farms. If they continued uncon-
trollable and tried to burn the cow to the
ground, the only thing would be to dis-
qualify them for the suffrage and send them
back steerage to the cold and poverty of
England, and the old unprofitable round of
arson, window smash and gaol. And pre-
sently many of the recalcitrants would be
glad to get back to sunny Australia, even if
it meant working out the balance of the
sentence in the kitchen. There are worse
jobs than being a Mary Ann in Australia.


25j-
Lady’s Solid Silver, Hunting
Keyless, LEVER WATCH, |
plate, full jewelled, patent ad-
justed balance, 25 /- Higher
grade, 35/-, £2, £2/10/-,
£3/10/- Solid Gold, £3,
£3/10/-, £4, £5, £O.
30|-
18ct. GOLD, set 5
pure, double-cut
Diamonds.
£6/10/-
18ct. GOLD, set 6
' Diamonds, 6 Ru-
bies, Sapphires or
Olivines.
20/-
9ct. GOLD, set Pearls and Rubies, Garnets
Amethysts.
50 J-
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting KEYLESS
LEVER, non-magnetic, full jewelled,
patent time spring, compensation balance,
dust-proof cases, 30/- Extra jewelled,
35/-, £2, £2/10/-, £3, up to £lO.
Rolled Gold, 55/-, £4/4/-, £5/o/-
Solid Gold, £6/10/-, £7/10/- up.
We Pay Postage
on all Jewellery
35 1-
AUNDERS
Sydney’s leading jeweller'
NEW JEWELLERY DESIGNS.
CHOICE EXCLUSIVE LOW PRICED.
£22/10/-
15ct. GOLD, set Dia-
monds and Pearls.
£3/10/-
18ct. GOLD, set
Diamonds, Rubies
or Sapphires.
25/-
9ct. GOLD, set Pearls
and Amethysts.
ñ
15ct„ GOLD
NECKLACE, set
Diamonds and
Tourmalines,
£l5.
loct. Gold NECK-
LACE, set Dia-
monds and Aqua-
marines, £l5.
20/-
9ct. GOLD, richly en-
graved; 15ct., 35/-
357-
Solid GOLD PRESENTA-
TION LINKS, hand made,
richly engraved, any in-
itials. Extra quality,
. 50/-. 18ct. Gold, £3.
ńbbn
£2
-/oi/z-y
Solid Silver Patent Expanding LEVER WATCH BRACE-
LET, accurate, reliable. Solid Gold, £5, £5/10/-,
£6/10/-, £7/10/-
£lO/10/-
15ct. GOLD, set Dia-
monds and Rubles.
£lO.
18ct. GOLD, set 3
pure, double-cut
Diamonds.
25/-
9et. GOLD, set
Pearls and Ame-
thysts or Garents.
807-817 GEORGE STREET, Opp. Railway Station, SYDNEY.
£l2/10/-
18ct. GOLD, set
pure, double-cut
Diamonds.
18ct. GOLD, set
pure, double-cut
Diamonds.
8/6
\
s
bar
Lady’s Black, Open Face
KEYLESS WATCH,
strong, accurate, 8/6.
Higher grade, 10/-'
15/-, 20/-, 25/- Sil-
ver, 25/-, 35/-, £2.
Solid Gold, £2.
10|-
22/6.
Set. GOLD, set Pearls and Colored Stones,
or all Pearls.
We send our
Jewellery
Catalogue
FREE.
151-
Gent.’s Nickel Open Face • KEYLESS
LEVER, full jewelled, patent adjusted
balance, non-magnetic time spring, dust
and water proof cases, 15/- Higher
Grade, 25/-, 30/-. Solid Silver, £2.
201-
RUMORS OF WAR
-
Disturbing cablegrams are being re-
ceived daily, indicating troubles that
may be expected in the near future,
and in order that our Clients may not
be disappointed, we are importing large
stocks of —■
Marshall’s
World-Famed Steam Engines
Winners of over 500 Gold and Silver Medals and Diplomas.
You have only to inspect the “Marshall” Engines to be satisfied they are undoubtedly
the “World’s best.” . . , „
Light and Heavy pattern Steam Tractors, Oil Tractors for dry districts, Marshall
Portables, latest improved, all sizes. Vertical and Colonial type Boilers, 2to 12 H.P.
Horizontal and Vertical Stationary Engines. Engineers’ Requirements. Belting,
Packing. Oils, etc.
Write for Catalogues. Cash or Easy Terms.
BELIEVER
in up-to-date motive power? If so, we commend to your favorable consideration —■
bv
THE ‘BIG CHIEF’’
OIL ENGINE
which has been carefully designed to our
own specification, and is complete in every
detail. Included in the equipment is the
“Wizard” Magneto, and regular Pulley and
Tools. The Crankshaft is extended to take
a pulley either side. No Tank troubles need
be feared.
All sizes from 2to 12 H.P. Either kero-
sene or benzine may be used as fuel. Send
for descriptive Catalogue. See the “Big
Chief” before buying any other make.
Cash or Easy Terms.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO.
Limited
161 Clarence Street, Sydney
GLASS WASHERS
CAR.ONAT.fJia:* I *^
NELSON
INUtT
-The “Boesser”
Patent is the
lin?st in the
World!
The Time
it Saves
is really
Marvellous!
Yes, there is not the shadow of a
doubt about the fact that the
“Boesser” patent Glass Washer is
the finest in the world. We are for-
tunate in being the sole agents in
Australia. We have fitted up all
the leading hotels and clubs in Syd-
ney with it, and everywhere its use
is an absolute success.
There is nothing so quick. It does its work thoroughly and with the greatest
simplicity. A child can operate it.
Can be worked with either foot or hand lever. It never gives the slightest
trouble.
There are no parts that can break with ordinary usage, and there’s really
nothing to get out of order.
Every up-to-date hotelkeeper in Australia should have one installed. It will
pay for itself many times over in time, labor and worry saving. If possible call in
and examine one at our rooms —they will stand the severest tests. If not able to
call, WRITE FOR DETAILS as to price, etc., etc.
OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE SENT FREE ON REQUEST.
It contains interesting facts about all classes
of hotel and refreshment-room supplies.
THE NELSON
Carbonating Co. Ltd.
“ The Largest Manufacturers in Soda
Fountain Supplies in Australia,”
167 George Sydney.
QUEENSLAND Agents—
GERALD DUNN & CO.,
Roma Street, BRISBANE.
rfATER
INLET


WORMS.
the symptoms.
The symptoms of worms are manifold, em-
bracing not only facial indications and de-
pression of the whole system, but serious
irritation and much distress.
IN VERY YOUNG CHILDREN much of the
irritability and fretfulness is often due to the
presence of worms. Restlessness, fitfulness,
sudden starts, hardness and fulness of the
belly, irregular movement of the bowels, and
excessive excretion of saliva from the mouth,
are invariably indications of the irritation
■caused by worms.
IN OLDER CHILDREN the same symptoms
are present, but more distinctly defined.
Grinding of the teeth, violent movements of
the legs and arms, and an undue flow of
saliva, which causes frequent efforts to swal-
low. When awake there is a constant desire
to pick the nose and scratch the irritated
parts. The bowels are irregular, and fre-
quently the movement of the worms causes
diarrhoea, alternating with costiveness. The
breath is usually foul, and the child is lan-
guid and peevish. The tongue preternaturally
red, or alternately clean and covered with a
white, slimy mucus. A short, dry cough, fre-
quently slimy stools (excretion from the
bowels) ; emaciation; slow fever, irregular
pulse, and sometimes convulsions. Loss of
appetite frequently alternates with a craving
for food. Indeed, the latter symptom is most
pronounced in many cases, and many mothers
have experienced the insatiable appetites of
their children without realising the cause.
ROUND OR STOMACH WORMS.
The Round Worm in its appearance, save
in color of course, somewhat resembles the
earthworm in shape. As in the case of the
Thread Worms, the female worm very much
exceeds the male worm in size. Whilst the
Thread Worm inhabits the large intestine of
children, the round worm is found in the
small bowel, or that portion of the intestine
which immediately comes off from the stomach
and makes up the succeeding twenty feet in
length of the digestive tube. Adults, of course,
are frequently also affected with Round
Worms, and it may be added that they are
also subject to be troubled with Thread
Worms. The danger of the Round Worm ap-
pears to be that in some cases the parasite
has the habit of making its way through the
walls of the intestine. Occasionally it will
pass into the stomach from the bowel itself,
and it has also been known to cause liver
troubles, when one of these parasites has
contrived to pass from the bowel into the duct
or tube which leads the bile from the liver
into the intestine.
If the worm penetrates from the bowel into
the general cavity of the belly, inflammation
of a fatal kind may be set up. The symp-
toms are very much like those produced by
the presence of the Thread Worm. In addi-
tion, however, a good deal of thirst repre-
sented in patients, along with a disturbance
of sleep, with a debased appetite, the patient
developing a liking for all sorts of strange and
unwonted foods. Itching of the nose may also
be here a prominent symptom.
PIN WORM, THREAD WORM, OR
SEAT WORM
Is an inhabitant of the lower bowel.
The Long Thread Worm measures from one
inch to two inches in length, the upper por-
tion being thin and the lower two-thirds about
twice as thick. This variety also infests the
large intestines and the rectum.
1 he common Thread Worm derives its name
from its thread-like appearance. The average
length is about one-third of an inch, this de-
scription applying to the female worm. The
male worms are much smaller, and do not ex-
hibit half the length of the females. The
favorite situation of the Thread Worm is the
large bowel which forms the terminal portion
of the intestines. These worms cause severe
itching at the lower passage and picking at
the nose. Anaemia, restlessness, irritability
and loss of appetite are also frequent symp-
toms. A child or adult so affected can find
no relief from the terrible itching, and conse-
quently becomes restless and upset at the
slightest provocation. A purgative medicine
will sometimes afford temporary relief by the
expulsion of some of the Worms congregated
near the rectum, but the Worms multiply so
quickly that the trouble returns. To get rid
of the Worms and their eggs, their nests also
must be removed, and that requires a specific
remedy. Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pel-
lets are unfailing in their results.
STOMACH WORM EXPELLED,
And Health generally improved after
taking a few doses of Comstock’s
“Dead Shot” Worm Pellets.
Mrs. J. O’Leary, of 111 Peel Street, Ballarat
East, Victoria, writes“A little daughter
of mine, Julia, was suffering from Stomach
Worms, and I decided to try Comstock’s
‘Dead Shot’ Worm Pellets. My daughter had
been ailing for some time, and was thin.
After taking a few doses of the Pellets and
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, a worm several
inches in length was expelled from the bowels,
which had the appearance of being a Stomach
Worm. She is still continuing the medicine
and shows much improvement in health since
adopting this treatment. I have no objection
to your using these few lines for publication,
seeing that other children might be relieved
from suffering.”
AFTER FIRST DOSE.
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets
effectual when other so-called
remedies failed,
Mrs. M. Johnson, 135 Elizabeth Street, Wel-
lington, N.Z., writes:—“Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of Com-
stock’s ‘Dead Shot’ Worm Pellets. My little
girl, aged three years, was very bad, continu-
ally picking her nose, and jumping about in
her sleep at nights, till she was afraid of being
left alone night or day. My husband, after bring-
ing home several different so-called remedies
and ‘certain cures,’ all of no earthly good,
decided to give Comstock’s ‘Dead Shot’ Worm
Pellets a fair trial. I smiled when I saw what
he had, as I was sick and tired of trying to
cure the poor child. After taking the first
dose the result was marvellous, she must have
been simply alive with worms. I continued
the treatment, giving her a pellet in the
morning and a teaspoonful of castor oil at
night, and I am pleased to say that she is
thoroughly cured, and has had no return of
the symptoms.”
FORTY WORMS
From a Two-Year-Old Child. From
Ten to Fourteen Inches Long.
The general ill-health of many children is
due to the presence of worms, and parents
should keep a sharp eye on their children if
there is a suspicion of their presence. The
wonderful effectiveness of Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets is strikingly illustrated
in the statement of Mrs. Jonikait, of Tairua,
New Zealand, whose little girl got rid of forty
worms of large size. Mrs. Jonikait’s letter is
as follows: “I am still giving Comstock’s ‘Dead
Shot’ Worm Pellets to my. litle girl and boy,
and they are both improving in health since
taking these Pellets. The little girl is just
two years old, and since taking your medicine
she has passed forty worms. They have been
all very large (from ten to fourteen inches
long). I hope by still using your Worm
I ellets that she will soon be rid of them all.
One day last week, after taking one dose of
the Pellets, she passed nine worms. I mean
to keep on using Comstock’s ‘Dead Shot’ Worm
Pellets till the children are cured of the
worms, for I think they are dreadful things
for children to have. You have my permis-
sion to publish this letter.”
IRRITABLE AND CROSS.
A Sure Sign of Worms in Children.
_ Wh at a Kurrajong Child Suffered.
“Por some six months,” writes Mrs. C. A.
Madden, of Kurrajong (N.S.W.), “my little
boy, now aged one year and ten months, has
suffered from Stomach Worms, which the
doctor attributed to the use of impure water.
Until he was 16 months old he enjoyed very
good health, but subsequently he became very
irritable and cross, and later on he was ex-
amined by a doctor, who stated that the
cause was Stomach Worms. Various treat-
ments were tried, and on one occasion a
Stomach Worm was passed from the bowels.
The evacuations from the bowels were always
stained with blood and the motions were
quite unnatural. On three or four occasions
the child was almost choked and went into
convulsions, and almost black in the face,
through the Worm passing up the throat’
and I had to force my finger down the throat
to remove the Worm. Only last week I was
strongly advised to try Comstock’s “Dead
Shot Worm Pellets, and having obtained a
box I gave the child a dose in accordance
with the instructions, and the same evening
five worms, varying in length, the longest 15
inches, were expelled.”
ENTIRELY ERADICATED.
Thread Worms in a Child and also in
Adult.
Mrs. A. Bristow, 37 Regent Street, Sydney,
writes: “My little girl, aged seven years, was
subject to Thread Worms, which caused her
to be peevish, irritable and restless at night,
with a voracious appetite, and I procured all
sorts of remedies for her, but without avail,
until I saw Comstock’s ‘Dead Shot’ Worm
Pellets advertised, and my husband told me
to buy them. I did so; and after she had
taken one box and a part of the second, all
traces were eradicated, having passed great
numbers of them. Since then a friend of
mine who had suffered also from Thread
Worms for 20 years, enduring much discom-
fort, rendering her pale, sallow and thin,
and which caused her much internal trouble,
with a feeling of sickness, during this time
using all sorts of remedies, such as turpentine
and different Worm Powders to remove them,
without avail. At length she was induced to
try Comstock’s ‘Dead Shot’ Worm Pellets,
and after taking the third box (following the
directions minutely) she was pleased to find
that the worms not only ceased to trouble,
but that all trace of them had left her, that
her health was returning, she was increasing
in weight and getting a better color. She
cannot speak too highly of them, and recom-
mends them to all whose children are suffer-
ing in this way.”
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets are a
scientific preparation, prepared in the form of
a sweet that children eagerly take. They are
Packed in glass tubes with full directions in
each, and are for sale by chemists and stores
generally at 2s. 9d. per packet (or six packets
for 15s.); and if unable to obtain locally, will
be mailed post free on receipt of price. Pre-
pared only by The W. II. Comstock Co., Ltd.,
23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.; and Parish
Street, Wellington, N.Z.
COMSTOCK S NERVE AND BONE
LINIMENT.
Comstock’s Nerve and Bone Liniment is a
powerful, penetrating preparation, acting
through the pores of the skin on the nerves,
bones and muscles.
It possesses the marvellous properties of an
immediate painkiller, and is unequalled as a
remedy for the aches and pains to which
human beings are subject, and which only an
external remedy can relieve.
It overcomes all pains and aches by re-
lieving the effect on the delicate nerves, caus-
ing the circulation of blood to be fully main-
tained through the injured part. It is an in-
valuable remedy for sprains and for reducing
all swellings, which under its powerful in-
fluence become softened and disappear.
Kheumatism, Sciatica and Lumbago all yield
to the powerful, penetrating and conquering
properties of this Liniment if used in connec-
tion with Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, ac-
cording to directions.
For bruises, two or three applications well
rubbed in will afford almost instant relief from
pain, prevent swellings, avert discoloration.
For cuts, small wounds or abrasions of the
skin, this Liniment, diluted with warm water,
will be found a perfect antiseptic, cleansing
the wound and aiding the process of healing.
Diluted with water and used as a gargle it
will cure Quinsy and Bronchitis, Sore Throat
and Hoarseness and all complaints of the
Throat and the Tonsils. Also use externally,
cover afflicted parts with flannel wet with the
Liniment. Catarrh and Cold in the Head are
cured by pouring a small quantity of the
Liniment into boiling water and inhaling the
fumes.
For Stiff Joints, Neuralgia, Lame Back,
Scalds, Burns, Contracted Muscles and Pain-
ful Swellings, it will be found that Comstock’s
Nerve and Bone Liniment has no equal.
Bathing, friction, oils, liniments and oint-
ments have in thousands of cases proved
utterly unavailing. Stiff Joints and Sprains
that have resisted all other treatment have
yielded to the powerful influence of Com-
stock’s Nerve and Bone Liniment. The per-
severing use of this Liniment will cause the
most stubborn case to relax.
DISLOCATED SHOULDER.
Unable to Use Right Arm for Six
Months. Comstock’s Nerve and Bone
Liniment Affords Wonderful Relief.
“As I always believe in giving credit
where credit is due,” writes Mrs. E. Maher,
of Nil Desperandum, Dartbrook Road, Auburn,
“I am sending this statement in praise of
Comstock’s Nerve and Bone Liniment. Just
12 months ago I dislocated my shoulder, and
for about six months suffered continually,
being unable to do any work that necessitated
the use of my right arm. I was treated by a
doctor, and also tried various Liniments
recommended by different chemists, but all
to no purpose, the severe pains still continu-
ing. After being in this state for about six
months, I one day read an advertisement
containing some testimonials from people who
had benefited by the use of this remedy, and
so decided to test it myself. After trying the
first bottle I felt much relief. I am now
using my fourth bottle, and find I can use
my shoulder with considerably more ease,
and intend continuing to treat myself with
Comstock’s Nerve and Bone Liniment, as I
know of nothing to equal it. I am only too
pleased to allow you to use this for advertis-
ing purposes, and would confirm same to
anyone calling on me.”
Comstock’s Nerve and Bone Liniment is ob-
tainable from all the leading chemists and
storekeepers, or will be sent post free on re-
ceipt of price, 2s. 6d. per bottle (or six bottles
13s. 6d.), by The \V. H. Comstock Co., Ltd.,
23 Lang Street, Church Hill, Sydney; or Farish
Street, Wellington, N.Z.
mm
E
MARSHALL :£v
INLANDS ft
PUa
J-AWA
S FA
ECUADOR
StWiSMON ISLANDS
V?' 5 F.,\
TORRES STRAIT
. rtA*" 1
O U T
//
r u
t- E ELF V
& Qf" :::
amtttw
P R R
: A'"'- ‘Sr'.MOA
rM
NKWHEBniDKS
A' 6
o'T
F lit tSLAIS£>S
BOLIVIA
\,>\LOYALTY ISLANDS
SOUTH
r
WESTERN
L l\ A
T H A-
kuSTRALIA
'HR!'
AUSTRALIA
&
PERTH
ItAT
Albury
KtGttT-
Valparatso:'::
-—
TAf>
O L 30 iWcO SiSTT
ND
v-*
Ms:


Was pale
and thin
Weak and delicate
children grow healthy,
sturdy and strong
when given SCOTT’S
Emulsion.
“ My two sons, one pale and thin, were
suffering with severe coughs and loss
of appetite. After the first bottle
of SCOTT’S they were brighter and
eating better. In a short time they
were quite cured and looked a
picture of health
Both children like SCOTT’S so well
that they call it cream.” —(Signed)
Mrs. C. Barnard, 64, Angel Street,
Newtown, Sydney, N.S.W. 31/8/11*
SCOTT
Emulsion
Only the genuine SCOTT’S
bears the Fishman Trade Mark.
TRADE
JVtW*.
MARK
SHORT Stories, Novels,
Poems, etc., Wanted.
We are commissioned by a well-known
weekly journal to offer prizes of £lO 10s.
and £5 ss. for the best short stories sub-
mitted before July 31, 1913.
We also have a purchaser for a novel by
an Australian writer.
Highest prices secured for Short Stories,
Poems, Special Articles, etc.
MS. revised and every assistance given to
beginners.
1913 Prospectus posted free on request.
Australasian Literary Agency,
Pendennis Chambers, Sydney.
ANTINEURASTHIN
TREATMENT OF
NERVOUS AND WASTING DISEASES.
The wonderful properties of Antineurasthin (Leci-
thin in an absolutely pure form) for successfully
treating all nerve maladies, Dyspepsia, Anaemia,
Rheumatism, etc., and imparting permanent mental
and nerve force, reflect the latest and most important
achievements in medical science.
One of the most important of the wonderful re-
sults obtained by this treatment is that not alone
does it build up the nervous system by feeding the
brain and nerve-cells with their natural food ele-
ment, but on account of its beneficial action upon
the process of nutrition and upon the blood, the
whole general health shows prompt improvement,
particularly in wasting diseases.
A FREE TRIAL.
In order that the worth of Antineurasthin may be
tested, a sample supply, together with a treatise on
nervous maladies, will be forwarded to any address
in Australia on receipt of 2d. in stamps to cover
postage by the wholesale representative, H. A. God-
dard No. 3 Australasian Chambers, 406-414 Queen
Street, Brisbane; or Branches: 194 Vickery’s Cham-
bers, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney; 9-15 Safe Deposit
Buildings, Queen Street, Melbourne; 3 Ellershaw’s
Buildings, Cliff Street, Fremantle; 213 Smeeton’s
Buildings, Queen Street, Auckland.
Serial No. 810.—Guaranteed under the Pure Foods
Act of New South Wales by H. A. Goddard, Sydney,
to contain not less than 10 per cent. Pure Lecithin.
No. 810. [2
vbñ
Thousands and thousands of
families in all parts of the world
always keep Ayer’s Cherry Pecto-
ral in the house. They rely on it
for coughs, colds, weak throats,
weak lungs. Sold in three sizes.
A CORRESPONDENT writes: “There is
always one feature in The Lone
Hand each month that is alone worth the
price charged for the whole number.” The
price of The Lone Hand is 6d.
APENTA
NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Obtainable all Chemists.
Famished
Hair Cells
Hair-failure is due to starved roots and cells.
All the legion of hair troubles vanish if you
strike at the root. It is the same in every ill
—you must go right to the heart of the trouble.
What the gfe r y, languishing, dropping hairs
call for
Is an adequate foai— a real nutriment.
ROWLAND’S MACASSAR OIL gives an
immediate new vitality to the feeble roots and
the “ feeding ” cells beneath them. It produces
a soft, silky sheen and texture; a full, luxuriant
growth, radiating a true natural hair -health
Softly perfumed with Otto of Roses. Supplied
in Gold Tint for fair hair.
ROWLAND’S
Macassar Oil!
is sold by Stores, Chemists , and
ROWLANDS, 67, Hatton Garden,
London.
Avoid cheap imitations with the same
or similar name.
( Health follows the I
regular use of
Montserrat
Lime Juice
Sauce
It makes
you enjoy
your food.
Of all Storekeepers*
Have You Tried
for Your Illness?-
Herbs
For hundreds of years the common simple herbs were all that were used as medicines—
and the people in the olden times used to live longer and healthier.
I believe Herbs will often cure where other treatment fails—in fact, I know many many
cases where this has been so. And I want you to try the simple natural Herb Cure tor .your
complaint. Tell me your symptoms and all particulars—l will send you a full month’s
supply of Herbs, suited for your illness, with full direction how to use them. For this
full month’s course I charge 20/-, and it may prove the best investment you ever made.
I am sure it will. Try it! Write to-day, and send postal notes of any State.
J. W. CASE,
140 WICKHAM ST., BRISBANE, Q.
b
A Trial WTI
Convince ifou
that Pebeco Tooth Paste is different from, and better than,
ordinary dentifrices. Are you sure you derive from your
present dentifrice the greatest possible benefit? The fact
that dentists and doctors have recommended Pebeco for 20
years is a guarantee of its real worth. You yourself will
recognise its excellent properties if you try it.
OBTAINABLE ALL CHEMISTS.
Trial Tube with useful Book free for three penny stamps,
on application to the Sole Agent:—
O. ARNOLD
(Dept. M), 6 O’Connell Street, Sydney
(WHOLESALE ONLY). [2
bvbn
Hunyadi Janos
Good health is the grandest of all possessions, and there can
be no doubt but what perfect digestion is one of the chief aids
to such a condition.
Hunyadi Janos Natural Aperient Water is Nature’s remedy for
disorders of the stomach, bowels and liver. A wineglassful
taken on arising, before breakfast, will be found to give almost
immediate relief.
Yi
N
#
: V
-Li
■
DON’T leave your arrangements for
this trip till the last. Enquiries
are pouring in from all parts of the
Commonwealth and New Zealand. Bris-
bane is to have the carnival time of its
existence.
The Brisbane Cup is the big race —another
Melbourne Cup, as great a social event, but
delightfully different to Flemington.
Write now, to-day, for full particulars to
C. DYSON-HOLLAND,
Sec. Q.T.C.,
Creek Street,
BRISBANE.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted ; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Annie D.: (1) Jan., 1880. (2) Not till
1882. (3) 1882. (4) Registered as a co. in 1883,
and not reconstructed since. .. .Brossey: Yes, Pietri
started in the 1911 English Derby, won by Sunstar,
but was not placed. In fact, he did not manage to
be included in the first nine, and was a dead failure.
. ...J.P.C.: He’s an impostor.... D.T.: Your poem,
“Boosey Time,” deserves print:—
There is something about wine
That makes one feel fine
But only for a little time
For after its exillerating effects decline
A man feels like a bag of slacked lime —
Everytime.
M.C.: “The Man of the World” is a startling
person. We like the Arctic verses best: —
He went to Greenland
And watched the cradles of the crasey-Aura Born-
laus.
He went to Ice land
And washed the babies for the lazy Esquinemaux.
He went to Lap Land
And seen them liveing on the Ice
He went to Jap Land
And seen them starving on some rice.
E.M.: Not bad in its way, but quite unsuitable.
... .Pegger: No hope for the “Love Sin.” You have
some idea of drawing a character, but none of writ-
ing a yarn. .W. 8., jun.: Insane story of insane actor
fills us with scorn, loathing and desire for beer. Why
must you do these things?....G.G.: “The Art of
Condensation” has some fair ideas, but clean copy and
decent grammar are important factors also ... . A.L.:
“The Degenerate” is a frightfully bad imitation of
the “Ballad of Reading Ga 01.”... .Paroa: Too much
Keats in verse. Why not get the wine if you want it
so badly ?. ... Kikeni: Glad you regard it as a con-
quest. Your remarks would be indecent if not. so
heavily weighted with stupidity.... Moanee: Horrible
verses about Miss Durack cast out with scorn....
D. : Never met a victim of thirst who hated
cities. The beer is always better in the congested
areas. .. .N.C.P.: Every line is commonplace and the
subject is trite. .. .P.W.L.: Stupidly sensational exit
dressed in vile verse. ... Saurian: Verse too cranky
in spots. Subject so easy to handle that it ought to
have been done we11....K. Devon Starr: Yes, we
did feel pretty bad, but we transferred the emotion
to the basket.... Africanus: There is something cheer-
ful about a person who has only just wakened up to
the fact that the Titanic was wrecked. Have you
heard of the fatal accident to J. Caesar, the Roman
millionaire? L.F.8.: Do you imply that you
really ate the girl, or what?. . . .R.H.: No good. ...
Kitty Muldoon: You have no idea of verse or rhyme.
....Inkos: One verse thrilled us: —
Some premiers know
These charms to him familiar.
What! Wild oats to sow
Imagine anything sillier
Than this you could not
You would be at a loss for words
But Weary would not
He’d tell you of the moving herds
On feet so fleet
The moving herds that has some charms
Siirplv we’ll s°e a knight in arms
On Collins-street.
....A.8.: “The Ballade of the Lost Ship” isn’t a
ballade, isn’t very good verse and doesn’t tell much
of a story. “The Canal” is rather good, but every-
thing in it has been said several million times. “Temple
of Pan” unsuitable. . .Ordell Buntine: “Bill” misses.
....Sneering: “Forest Octopus” is very poor verse.
. ...T.D.: Verses too frail. .. .T.M.: No use for an
emigrant who can’t lament better than that.. . .L.L.:
“Brown Girl” too sudden in parts and lacking in
humor R.C.D.M.H: “The Calling of the Sea” is
not up... . Nimos: Stupid blither by a man who
can’t write, and has nothing to write about
Carper: “Why Suffragettes Fight” is about the dull-
est thing we have read since the office Wowser pro-
duced his tract on the religious influence of rum....
E. : “To You” is too commonplace D.G.C.:
Lines on Mrs. Pankhurst have no more humor than
a bar of soap; in fact, they have no more mirth
than a bar maid of soap or something Tom
Jones: No chance... .0.D.: “Impudence” no g00d...
Joe Neville: Verse dull, flat -and stupid. .. .S.G.:
“A Leaf from Life” fluttered into the basket. ...
Wilson L.: You are awarded first place as the worst,
most slovenly and dirtiest writer in Australia....
8.L.: Like getting out a steam-hammer to crush a
beetle. .. .J.S.: Any Australian theatrical manager
will “look at” an Australian play, but if your play
is as good as you think, there is not much hope of
Australian production. Re overseas: Try one of the
Repertory managements in England, whose addresses
can be got from London papers. . . .V.A.C.: From 3d.
to 6d. per line, on acceptance... .Tom B.: “East
and West” is fair jingle,, but appears to mean no-
thing in particular.... Sufferer: Can’t give names
in this column, but any good consulting physician
should d 0..... Norma H.: Impossible to judge your
chances of succeeding as a black-and-white artist
without seeing your work. Julian Ashton, Queen
Victoria Markets, Sydney, is a good teacher. .. .
Danvers: Thanks for pamphlet. Impossible to decide
re article without seeing it. .. . Boggabri: Neither
Isaacs nor Griffith is “so utterly impossible as a
lawyer that he cannot reach one correct conclusion.”
Nor does personal bias account for the divergence
of their views. The position was well put the other
day, by a writer in the Round Table (London). In
an article headed, “The High Court of Australia,”
he said: “It is almost needless to observe that this
difference of opinion (i.e., between Griffith, Barton
and O’Connor on the one side, and Isaacs and Hig-
gins on the other) is not the result of political bias
in the party sense. All the Judges are not only
distinguished lawyers, but they are as high-minded
and as absolutely independent as any Judges in the
world. No, the cleavage between the three first-
named Judges and the other two is occasioned by a
fundamental difference of opinion as to the purview
of the Constitution Act. An interesting discussion on
the divergent opinions of the Judges is given by Pro-
fessor Harrison Moore. He points out that Chief Jus-
tice Griffith and Justices Barton and O’Connor ap-
proach the task of interpretation with a constant eye
to the necessity of confining Commonwealth and
State to their respective legislative spheres.” The
writer goes on to show that Justices Isaacs and
Higgins interpret the Constitution on broader lines:
“they contend that the proper course is to give the
several terms defining the grants of power to the
Commonwealth their natural and proper meaning
unaffected by any implications of restraint based
upon the supposed powers of the States.” This
paper didn’t know whether Hughes’ appointees were
Griffith men, so to speak, or Isaacs men. It objected
to them for the simple reason that, unlike the rest
of the High Court Bench, they were third-rate men.
....Mother of Millions: You take two pages to get
to your real grievance, namely, that men don’t de-
liberately choose their wives for their fitness as
mothers. Taking into consideration your prolixity,
and the utter hopelessness of trying to persuade man-
kind to reform in this respect, we decided, albeit
with a tear of regret, to accord your contribution
the chuck. .. ,M.T.: No use.
TO ARTISTIC ("AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Koeks: The woes of the crossing-sweeper not suffi-
ciently hilarious.
Archbishop Carr (Melbourne) has ap-
pointed Archbishop Mannix, his recently-
acquired coadjutor, Vicar-General of the
diocese. This means that Dr. Mannix prac-
tically enters upon the work as if he had
already succeeded to the complete job and
dignity— to the title, the palace, the clothes,
the war-whoop and the profit. In the Angli-
can diocese of Melbourne there is a Vicar-
General, Archdeacon Hindley, who does the
hard digging and the tree-felling and the
spiritual grubbing. He is like a general
manager, with Dr. Clarke, the Archbishop,
as the Board of Directors.


How should / your good Tyre know
From another one?
How ?
Just as you would know a good horse—
(o By its breed. The Michelin Square Tread is made of the best
rubber obtainable.
(2) By its appearance. Before inflation, the sides of the Michelin Square
Tread appear almost oarallel, so that, when inflated, the tread becomes
tightly compressed. Hence, if cut, the incision tends to close up rather than gape
open thus preventing water and dust from finding easy ingress.
(3) By its strength and endurance. The Michelin Square tread is doubly
strong, for it is ( a ) moulded in one piece, and ( b ) free from all ribs and hollows—
which reduce the thickness of the tread.
That is why the
Michelin Spare Tread
wins the day.
N.B. Remember, it is essential not only to know the good tyre, but also to know how to preserve
it when it is on your car. The secret is always to keep it well inflated, and constantly verify the
pressure with a Michelin Tyre Tester.
Michelin Tyres and Accessories can be
obtained at all the Leading Garages.
AIMZ, 5.
“THE LONE HAND” for Good Stories and Bright Articles. Price 6d.
CONSUMMATE
EVAPORATIVE CONDENSERS
For Efficiently & Economically Condensing Exhaust Steam.
All condensed steam is recovered for
boiler feed at a high temperature*
Higher Efficiency than Water Cool-
ing Towers and Lower Working
Costs*
Power consumed for circulating
purposes: One-fourteenth that re-
quired by Surface Condenser and
Cooling Towers*
Fuel and Water Charges reduced
30 to 50 per cent.
**
•er?
v. •. 12C,:
«0m
This Plant supersedes four sets of
Surface Condensers with Cooling
T owers.
Coal Saving: Actually
Effected: 2600 tons the
First Year.
Capacity: 40,0001b5. steam per
hour.
Power consumed for circulating
purposes: 7 8.H.-P.
For all Situations where Water is Scarce.
Australian Representatives: _
HAES & EGGERS LTD.,
&
163 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.


GREAT ITCHING
JDBURNING
Nose Broke Out in One Mass of
Sores, Then on Parts of Body.
Terrible to See. Sleep Impossi-
ble, Had to Tie Hands, Cuticura
Soap and Ointment Quite Cured.
19 Amy St., Erskineville, Sydney, N. S.
W.—“ Twelve months ago last September,
my little girl Alma, was operated on for a
l
growth in the nose, but
it never healed, and
three weeks after, it
broke out in one mass
of sores and we thought
that before they could
be cured the nose
would be eaten off her
face. Then the sores
broke out all over the
stomach and other
parts of her body. It
was terrible to see her;
she could not sit down.
and as for sleep it was impossible, the itching
and burning being so great, and we had to
tie her hands up at night to stop her scratch-
ing the affected parts.
“I was in despair when a niece of mine
told me of the wonderful cure your Cuticura
Ointment and Soap had done for her little
girl so wrote straight away for sample of
Cuticura Ointment and in the meantime
bought a tin of Cuticura Ointment and a
cake of Cuticura Soap and when that was
used I saw a great improvement, and with
another tin of Cuticura Ointment she was
quite cured. The sores are all gone and now
she looks in the best of health.” (Signed)
Mrs. J. Camden, Nov. 13, 1911.
Cuticura Soap and Ointment are sold
throughout the world. For liberal sample
of each with 32-page Skin Book, post-free,
address R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S, W.
Drives Sallowness
from the Skin
Ladies, imperfect complexion is caused by
a sluggish liver. A few days’ treatmentwith
CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER PILLS will do
more to clean up the skin
than all the beauty
creams in creation.
Cures constipation,
unclogs the liver,
ends indigestion,
biliousness and
dizziness
Purely vege-
table, never 1
fail. 1
vnb
Carters
■ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
The GENUINE must bear signature
9
\s
Her Youtlr
rD.A
LENS
111, . C'-i-S.A.)
Mexican
WALNUT a TAIN
for Grey Hair
IS THE
only permanent and really satisfactory
ONE SOLUTION Hair Stain
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES
The Best Bush Doctor of All!
If you’ve got a poisoned hand, a sore leg, an abscess,
a boil, a running sore, Eczema in any form, Barcoo
rot—or if you’ve a wound that won’t heal or a
jagged cut, all you need
have to cure it is a tin of
Wilkinson’s
Eclectric Ointment.
Price 1/6, Posted 1/9. J. WILKINSON, Chemist,
K.E.8., Wickham Btreet, Valley, Brisbane
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Bold by all Chemists.
THE Australian Magazine. THE LONE
HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d.
HOWTO
GROW HAIR
A Simple, Safe and Reliable Way that Produces Surprising Results
NEW PREPARATION CAUSES BIG STIR AMONG HAIR SPECIALISTS.
n
ñvb
bn
ñbv
The above clearlv shows Results from a <short Course of my True Halr-Qrowfng Compound
10,000 FREE TRIAL BOXES.
Those who are troubled with falling hair, dandruff,
baldness, itching scalp, etc., know full well the
humiliation that they cause. There is no need, how-
ever, of such conditions. These troubles can be
quickly overcome by my True Hair Grower.
I am not an advertising quack, but am a business
man. My hair began to grow thin about the time
I reached the age of thirty. When I had reached the
age of thirty-five the top of my head was quite bald.
I had considerable pride, and sought for something
to cause renewed growth. I invested in every pre-
paration that I could see or hear of, and here let me
say that not only did I try all the English so-called
restorers, but those of Continental Europe. I also
visited specialists. My experimenting cost me many
sovereigns and considerable time —yet the hairs came
not. I had given up the idea of ever growing hair
again. One afternoon, while enjoying a brief busi-
ness respite by an Alpine trip, I fell in with an old
collegiate chemist, whose hair was particularly plen-
tiful. I jokingly remarked that I wished he could
spare some of his hair for my benefit. This lead him
to tell me that he understood the human hair as well
as a good dentist understands teeth. He wrote out a
formula, and suggested that I have a quantity of the
compound prepared. I did this a few days later. I
was astonished to see the hair coming forth after
several applications, and within six weeks my head
was covered by a firm, yet soft, black growth of hair.
Since then the hair on my head has been as luxuriant
as when in my school days. Having arranged for
the legal right to do so, I have for some time been
privately selling this marvellous hair-growing com-
pound. I hold over one thousand letters from people
who have actually grown new hair through the
medium of my true hair grower. I do not pretend
to say it is the only hair grower in the world—l am
not interested in decrying others—but I do assert
that it is the most reliable, and in the end by far the
cheapest.
Baldness, Dandruff, Itching, etc.,
Free Trial Coupon.
Cut out this Coupon and send with 3 stamps
to cover postage, etc., and I will immediately
post a large trial box of my True Hair Grower.
John Craven Burleigh, Dept. 7, 107 Castlereagli
Street. Sydney,
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original anti Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/I*, 2/9 & 4/b.
Made in England.
IfaierQd'r
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks of
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
‘he cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acts like a charm in
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY.
If you want the very best
Flannelette
the Old Country Produces
|»J HORROCKSES’
LATEST VICTORY
GRAND PRIZE
BRUSSELS
EXHIBITION, 1910
SEE HORROCKSES’ NAME ON
SELVEDGES and decline all substitutes
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and Storekeepers.
The “Swan-Safety” is simpler and more reliable than any
other pen made; may be carried in any position, in any pocket,
handbag or trunk, without fear of leakage; with the “ladder”
feed, erratic working is out of the question; the nib is the
product of over 60 years’ experience; the holder is beautifully
balanced and holds a good supply of ink.
SWA
POttNTPEN.
Sold by all
Stationers.
Catalogue Free on Request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London, W.C.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only)
J. A. BURKE, 15 Waltham Building, 24 Bond St., Sydney.
nbv
V l
* rca NZ
Benger's is the most easily
digested of all foods*
It is appetising and delicious, and
is enjoyed and assimilated when other
foods cause pain and distress.
nbv
for Infants, Invalids, and the Aged, enjoys the
universal recommendation of Medical men in all
cases of severe or temporary iilness, and during
convalescence.
nbv
Food
Post free—to all who have the rare of Infants and Invalids, a 48-page
Booklet, “ Benger’s Food and How to Use It."
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., Otter Works, MANCHESTER, ENG.
117, PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Sender's Food is sold in tins by Druggists, etc., everywhere.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Manufacturing Jeweller”: When the Commerce
Act was first introduced into Australia you had a
very valuable and pertinent leading article, the main
feature of which was that Australia intended only to
receive from foreign countries goods equal to the
standard represented by the marks on those goods,
and in return Australia would only export goods
equal to the standard represented by the markings on
their goods. This being an irrefutable argument for
honest trading, had the effect of converting most
honest traders to your own way of thinking, but how
is this Act being administered? Certainly not on
the lines that you enunciated. I refer particularly
to the jewellery trade. At the present time all goods
imported from over sea have to be equal to the
standard represented by the various marks. The
Custom House has taken every precaution to see that
the Act is carried out in its entirety, and makes
assays of various lines from time to time. But how
different is the case with the local manufacturer, who
can, and does, produce goods of a very inferior qual-
ity, and stamps them with a fictitious mark. Thus,
seven carat goods are produced and stamped nine
carat; 12 carat is stamped 15 carat, and so on. It
is not fair either to the public or to the maker of the
article of the superior class that such should be the
case. As some protection for the public, most of
the leading manufacturers in Melbourne, some time
ago, formed an association, and agreed, under a
money bond, to maintain the standard of quality
equal to the British hall-mark, each manufacturer
registering a distinctive brand, so that the respective
makers could be traced. They also agreed that from
time to time at any moment the association could
draw samples from their respective stocks and assay
same. But all this effort is futile when there is no
recognised standard which is guaranteed by a Gov-
ernment mark; hence, there is no redress for the
public or defence for the legitimate manufacturer
when the unscrupulous maker gets to work. As your
pqper has always been in the fore-rank in advocating
honest trading, I trust that you will help those that
are anxious to conduct their business on fair and
honest lines, to do so bv helping them to urge the
Commonwealth to establish some recognised system
by which those swindling the public can be punished,
and so carry out the Commerce Act on the lines that
you advocated.
* * * *
“X.P.D.”: What’s the use of “A Perfervid Aus-
tralian” (B. 13/2/’l3) telling of the beauties of Aus-
tralian timbers at the A.N.A. Exhibition? Every-
body—in the towns, at all events —has ample oppor-
tunity of knowing them, but until stained pine,
“walnut finish,” and like abominations, with mirrors
stuck all over them, cease to claim the custom of
people with money, the best timber in the world,
now being slaughtered by thousands of tons, will
never have a fair show. When I was in Chillagoe,
silky oak was sawn up into three-by-twos and sold
along with common building timber. Yet, here at
Brisbane, a silky oak table, quite plain, is priced at
three times more than a similar table in pine.
There’s something wrong, or missing, or stolen some-
where. A cabinetmaker, whose shop in Bundaberg I
visited a year or two ago, hooked out some very fine
carvings of table legs he had made long before, and
showed me also a table inlaid with Australian woods
that he had made for the Franco-British Exhibition.
But when I met him he was knocking wheelbarrows
together. Chow-made “walnut finish” pine had
driven him out of the furniture trade.
Randolph Bedford whoops for pigs: It seems to be
established now that the days of cheap stock in Aus-
tralia are gone for ever. A continually-increasing
demand already forces some northern meat works to
shut down for four or five months a year, and as
the American works at Brisbane have a capacity of
100,000 cattle a year, the new demand must en-
hance prices. America’s export and internal trade
are rapidly bringing it out of the self-contained posi-
tion that once seemed permanent. Already there are
fairly big imports of Australian mutton to New
York, via London ; the Pacific Coast is beginning to
be one of Australia’s meat-consumers ; and the open-
ing of Panama is sure to bring direct lines of freezers
between Australia and the Eastern States. This
means a lift to the settlement of the Northern Ter-
ritory if only the Fisher Government will put some
horse-sense into its administration, and give land
tenures that a pastoralist can look at without sneez-
ing. The Territory should be a great pig country,
too, for it has just the climate and soil to produce
che food that makes good pork. Australia hasn’t
really ; begun the eating of the animal despised by
Aaron s brother, probably because the Australian gets
good.mutton and plenty of it. The comparisons pro-
vided by the Chicago stock yards are interesting
Homebush (Sydney) puts through 3,000.000 sheep a
year; the Chicago stock yards deal with 5,250,000
Yet, while the Sydney market handles but a mere
thousand or two hogs, Chicago in 1910 put through
5,586,858. The big Yankee meat-packing place
handles 10 per cent, more hogs than sheep, and just
50 per cent, more hogs than grown cattle. That’s
pork. Really, Australia hardly realises what pork is
yet. Germany almost lives on the hog; it has
22,000,000 of him aga ; - st 20.000,000 cattle and
7,000,000 sheep, and when it threw its hog against
France in 1870-71 France went down horribly. Also
Servia and Bulgaria are great hog countries, and the
scrap they and the wine-growing Greek have lately
put up against the huge armies of the teetotal and
non-pork-eating Turk suggests a whole lot of con-
siderations. The Turk runs a harem, so the war was
between bacon and brandy on one side and polygamy
on the other. So far, bacon and brandy have won.
Now (alas!) there are complications. " for Monte-
negro. which owns a mere 8000 pigs, wants to annex
the Turkish town. of Scutari, and Austria, with
nearly i ,000.000 nigs, puts in an overwhelming veto.
Apparently the country with most pigs wins.
“M.L.Aj”: A recent immigrant wanted a tram con-
ductor s job, and came to me for a reference. To
prove bona fides he produced two from t’other" side
Herewith copv of No. 1: “Portobello Rd„ London"
The bearer. Blank Dash, is a good, clean butcher,
that was civil and patient to customers. So far as
I know, he does not belong to a union and does not
mind coming a little early when required. I am
discharging him for paying attention to the cashier.
Apart from that he is all right.” No. 2: “Portobello
Rd., London. Can recommend the bearer to any
tradesman. During the past 10 months he has
worked for me, and was never out late at night He
is very obedient to those over him.” It seemed a
pity to send such a gentle soul among the tram bovs
Luckily I remembered that he’d mashed the cashier"
A scoundrel who would do a thing like that de-
served no consideration ; so I gave him the reference
GRAVE AND GAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In a recent issue of the Melbourne Age four- ad-
vertisements were printed, announcing that Boroon-
dara, Brighton, Melbourne and Williamstown general
cemeteries would be “closed for the holidays.”
The flags will fly, the tombstones shine
With paper roses, fruit and wine;
The digger of the sodden grave
In festal garments, big and brave,
Will warble on in merry tones
Where jocund mutes play on the bones.
Oh, brother, do not die, I pray,
To-morrrow’s graveyard holiday !
The undertaker puts aside
His coffins narrow, coffins wide,
And with his missus and the nurse
He’ll take a joy ride on the hearse;
And spirits that no eye may glance
Around the graves will skip and dance.
You really not must die, I say,
To-morrow’s graveyard holiday.
All careless dead ones e’en must wait
In queue without the iron gate.
In vain they cry to be let in,
No keeper hears their ghostly din.
They must respect the sexton’s right,
The undertaker’s sweet respite.
So let us live as best we may—
To-morrow’s graveyard holiday.
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


X>X i >/
<
.v.V-'S
*:■
M
•-.
jfajyzkZr
m
J&E
P»5
■ -X
*
X 4—
••
>
•Vfc*
a?y
X
X
S&flfc*
\
X
Vi.
,
fm
infiw y
&
r 'Cx
a
S*s
Wf
m
"ST
jgE|Px!
X
tv;
if-m
psp
k
Wl
m
’■‘ X
f/
/I
/)
Ml
•"} i :••>'
K
m
NX
X
•- #;: ;■
v\
X.
X
*#<
”*
■
ff
.
X
cy
Is
»<X:
m
I*
■
won
X;
m
x:
-■■v«
' .
m
m,
* • •<
“Pack Enough
for a Long
Stay ! ”
Mount Victoria is an ideal Winter Play-
ground for the vacationist Up here -
among tree-clad hills —the inspiration ot
beautiful mountain scenery, rioting in
rich Autumn Colorings, invites you to
“stay longer.”
The air id crisp, keen and invigorating,
but not too cool, the cheery, homelike
atmosphere of the “Imperial Mount
Victoria’s cosiest Hotel —holding a pleas-
ant welcome after a long day s tramp
’mid fern-embowered gullies and hill
rambles.
The “Imperial” is electrically lighted
throughout. Sanitary System perfect.
The largest Motor Garage outside Sydney.
Jenolan Caves are close
to The “Imperial.”
A daily service of “Itala Cars runs be-
tween the “Imperial” and Jenolan
affording guests ample time for inspec-
tion. Return Fare, 355.
The “Imperial” Tariff.
£5 3s. per week; 10s. per day.
Intending Visitors may obtain full in-
formation from
The Town Office,
18 Imperial Arcade,
Pitt Street, SYDNEY.


Shipping;.
BRANCH SERVICE,
P m and Qm
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Via MELBOURNE and ADELAIDE.
Wireless installed.
PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION AMIDSHIPS.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
LONDON £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l7 17s.
Tickets for return, via Suez (second-class), P. and
O. Mail, from £49 19s. to £53 11s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne: John Sanderson & Co., 11l William St.
Adelaide and Fremantle Agents: Geo. Wills & Co.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA E. N GL AN D.
ORAMA ..Triple-Screw
ORVIETO ..Twin-Screw
OSTERLKY
OTRANTO ..
OTWAY ..
ORSOVA ..
ORONTES .
OMRAH ..
OPHIR
13,000 Regd. Tons.
12,130 „
12.129 „
12,124 „
12,077 ~
12,036 „
9,023 „
8,282 „
6,814 ~
New and luxuri-
Staterooms, with
Private Bathrooms,
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy,
ous Steamers. Cahines-de-luxe;
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing everv fortnight from BRISBANE. SYDNEY,
Melbourne; Adelaide, and fremantle.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place. Sydney.
Banking;, Public Companies, &c.
vnb
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Head Office: 11 Moore Street, Sydney.
(Guaranteed by the State Government).
Has Now No Connection
with the Post Offices.
The Bank has 116 Branches and
500 Agencies throughout the State.
DEPOSITS received from 1/- to £5OO
INTEREST —3 >4% from £1 to £3OO,
and 3% on the excess up to £5OO.
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of (ieorge and Bridge Sfs.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK, LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASi A, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,534
PAID-UP (31st December, 1912).. £1,195,274
RESERVE FUND £15,000
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS —Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Chas. 11.
Myles, Esq.; Mark Sheldon, Esq.; Arthur S.
Barton, Esq ; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO.OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. 413,590 14 6
Reserve .. .. .. .. 130,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091.669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors—Jas. Munro, Esq. (Chairman) ; John
Cameron, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. ; Geo. Edw. Bunning.
Esq.; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON FIXED DEPOSITS.—
12 months, at the rate of 4 per cent, per annum : 2
vears and over, at the rate of 4A per cent, per annum.
HEAD OFFICE - - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada. South Africa, China, the East.
New Zealand Insurance C° Lt 'a.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
LIVE STOCK and GENERAL.
WEALTHIEST COLONIAL COMPANY.
INSURANCES EFFECTED at LOWEST Current Rates.
FIRE and MARINE BRANCH : 77 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
ACCIDENT BRANCH: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
J. A. Minnett & A. E. D’Arcy, Joinr, Managers.
CARBIDE.
For First-Class
Results use
Best
nb
PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
Shipping;
N.D.L.
NORDDEUTSCHER.LLOYD
MAIL STEAMERS
To Colombo, Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and
Bremen,
All steamers fitted with “Wireless” Installation.
All steamers fitted with Laundry.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR WEEKLY SERVICE from Sydney
and Brisbane, via German New Guinea, Yap,
Angaur or Maron. Twin-screw Steamers,
t or Passage and Full Particulars apply to —
LOHMANN & CO.. General Agents.
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney ;
OSPERMEYER, VAN ROMPAEY & Co., Melbourne;
11. MUECKE & CO., Adelaide;
L. RATAZZI k CO.. Perth and Fremantle:
I HOS. BROWN k SONS. Ltd.. Brisbane k Townsville.
Bank of Deo Z ean d.
SYDNHY BRANCH :
EQUITABLE BUILDING. GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£1,000,000
Preference Shares .. .... 500,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
tip 500.000
Uncalled Capital 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,240,587
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea
land, Fiji. Great Bri
lain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE
t Triple-screw Turbine.
All steamers fitted with Wireless.
SALOON: FARES — Third-class.
London, from £45. £l6 to £2O.
Capetown and Durban, from £3O £l3/13/- to £l7/17/-
Special Round Tickets for Return by Orient Line,
£llO (First-class both ways) ; £B2 (Second-class
Orient). Saloon Return Tickets interchangeable
with Holt’s Blue Funnel Line. Third-Class Return
and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with P. & O.
Branch Service.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll4 10s.
SALOON CABINS on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest stan-
dard.
Pamphlets. Time-Tables. Ac., on application.
OALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia
Australian Steamships Line
Howard Smith Co. Ltd., Managing Agents.
Fast Passenger Steamers
New T.S.S. CANBERRA (8000 tons).
* S.S. COOMA,
*S.S. BOMB ALA,
S.S. PEREGRINE.
with Wireless Telegraphy.
Leave Ports as follows:
MELBOURNE every Wednesday.
SYDNEY every Saturday.
BRISBANE every Tuesday and Wednesday.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma) every Wednesday
and Monday,
MACKAY* every Thursday and Sunday.
TOWNSVILLE every Saturday.
New T.S.S. INDARRA (wireless telegraphy), 10,000
tons, carrying first-, second- and third-class
passengers, for MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE,
FREMANTLE and GERALDTON, transhipping
for all S.A. and W.A. Ports.
From SYDNEY, MAY 24.
From MELBOURNE, MAY 28.
From ADELAIDE, MAY 31.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
APPLY
PROMPTLY.
ACCOMMODATION
LIMITED.
BURNS-PHILP TOURS.
(PERSONALLY CONDUCTED.)
FIVE WEEKS of PLEASURE & PROFIT,
PERFECT PEACE
and RECUPERATION.
AN IDEAL HOLIDAY.
£2O.
S.S.“MINDINI”
leaves SYDNEY, 3rd May,
BRISBANE, sth May,
CALLING at TULAGI, GIZO, FAISI, etc.
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD. SYDNEY.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
,
DIRECTORS:
£3,000,000
£2,150,000
£3,000,000
£8,150,000
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, ICt., M.L.C
President.
The Hon. Reginald .Tames Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Norinand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosberv, C.M.G., M.L.C.
Auditors: Shepheard Edgecliffe Laidley, Esq.; Alfred George Milson, Esq.
Head Office— George fet., Sydney. London Office-29 Threadneedle St, EC.
With 835 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua. Agents and Corres-
pondents throughout the World.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on. Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE
WORLD. 'l■ RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up ..£1,749,978 2 6
Reserve Fund . . .. 1,580,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 1,750,000 0 0
£5,079,978 2 6
- DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen. Esq .. .. Chairman.
Hon. 11. E. Ivater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Sheeky, Esq.
Auditors: W. L. Docker, Esq!t and E. S. Cape, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
11. 11. Massif..
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Bircliin-Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. H. S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the Stat" cf New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up ~ .. .. ..£538,307
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 159,054
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock). 76,500
£773,861
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. ~~
Gen. Man.. Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. 11. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
•21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The Colonial (ljutual t'te
assurance society limited
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability ; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,358,229.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £5,600,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith. K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretary.
T
HE Australian Magazine—THE LONE
HAND. The National Monthly. Price, 6d.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE.
*The largest and finest steamer trading between
Sydney and San Francisco.
Around World and Around Pacific Tours.
Steamers stop 24 Hours at Papeete—the
“ Pearl of the Pacific.”
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND. LTD.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“ Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“Ulimaroa,” “Wimmera,”
“Riverina,” “Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH k ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITER),
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO
(LIMITED). 1
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
Ami GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports.
X.S.S. Wandilla, April 30
and May 28.
T.S.S. Warilda, May 10
and June 7.
Fitted WirelessTelesrranhv
Each Steamer 8000 tons ' ’
Carrying Three Classes.
1,2, 3 and 4-Berth Cabins
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
S.s. Allinga, April 26.
S.S. Grantala, May 3.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable aPor
the first Port of call with other inter-Stute Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can bp
ascertained on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YUILL Sc CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
Via FIJI AND HONOLULU.
CANADIAN - AUSTRALASIAN RM
LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
AROUND THE WORLD TOURS;
FIRST AND SECOND CLASS.
SAILINGS :
*New triple-screw steamer, fitted with cab'ns-de-
luxe en suite, Nursery, Laundry, Electric Lifts, etc.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STEAM SNIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Federal & Shire Lines
Steam to London and Liverpool
(Fia Suez Canal).
T.S.S. SHROPSHIRE.
12,600 Tons. W. L. PRENTICE, Commander.
Will he despatched from —
BRISBANE. MAY 17.
SYDNEY, MAY 25.
MELBOURNE, MAY 28.
ADELAIDE, MAY 31.
The Saloon accommodation consists of all two-
berth cabins on the Upper deck, situated amidships.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious
decks. Third-class passengers supplied with fresh
provisions from cool chambers throughout the voyage.
Electric light throughout.
Return and Round Trip Tickets issued via Cape
and (or) Suez Route. Prepaid passages arranged.
Saloon. Third-class.
Fares to London £4O to £45. £l6/16/- to £lB/18/-
Steerage Fares from Brisbane, One Guinea Extra.
FITTED WITH WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY.
For further information, pamphlets, etc., apply to —
BIRT k CO., LTD., Sydney and Brisbane.
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & CO. PTY., Ltd.,
Melbourne and Newcastle.
ELDER SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
H. JONES & CO.. LTD.. Hobart.
A Whole Week Saved
SYDNEY to SAN FRANCISCO by the
Oceanic Steamship Company
10,000 tons, Twin Screw Steamers. 17 knots,
Classed 100 A 1 at British Lloyds.
CABINS DE LUXE with BATHS.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY—
The through trip to England can be accomplished
in 29 Days via Samoa, Honolulu, San Francisco.
RETURN TICKETS GOOD BY P. & 0., ORIENT LINE,
N.D.L., N.Z ,S. Co. and S. S. & A. Co.
Tel. 2282 City. Apply—44 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
"THE North Coast Steam
1 Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS ; also to BYRON BAY, COFF S HAR-
BOR and WOOLGOOLGA. _ .
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction witn
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAHWVAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumban,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Bs. 6d. ; second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500.000.
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks ..
effected on all classes o
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool. Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
THOMAS M. TINLEY. Manager.


FLOW METER FACTS.
How General Electric Co., U.S.A., Boiler
Flow Meters increase the Efficiency of
your Boiler Plant.
Per cent Fff/clency
Steam cost 1/- per 1000 lb
CASE I.
0 100 700 300 400 300 600 700 000 900 1000
steom Output tn 80//er Horse Power
SEND FOR DESCRIPTIVE BULLETIN
No. 7676.
Steam costs 11ld. per 1000 lb.
With coal labor, etc., same as Case I.
Per-cent Efficiency
CASE II
0 100 TOO 300 400 SOO 600 700 SOO 900 1000 i
Steam Output in 80//er Horse Powr
5 —5000 H.P. Boilers in a battery delivering 2500 B.H.P. = 75,0001 b.
per hour.
Load UNEQUALLY divided because there is no means of determining
the steam output of each boiler.
Efficiency curve gives total battery efficiency as 69 %.
Steam cost, 1/- per 10001 b.
This condition of unequal division of load between individual battery
members has been found in nearly every plant not equipped with General
Electric Co., U.S.A., Boiler Flow Meters.
DOES IT EXIST IN YOURS?
Same 5—5000 H.P. Boilers delivering 2500 B.H.P. = 75,0001 b. per
hour.
Load EQUALLY divided because fires, draught, etc., are regulated in
accordance with the indications of the General Electric Co., U.S.A., Boiler
Flow Meters connected to each boiler of the battery.
Efficiency curve gives total battery efficiency as 72 %.
Steam costs ll}4d. per 10001 b., with coal, labor, etc., same as Case 1.
Saving, % in cost of generating steam.
Can yon afford to overlooK this Saving?
Send for Descriptive Bulletin No. 7676.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC CO.,
217 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
Corner of Qtieen 0. Little Collins Streets,
MELBOURNE.
AT FIRST OR AT LAST, YOU
W ILL GET
MUST HAVE
A BARKER.
> / r*s\
'.V
THE WORLD’S STANDARD
BARKER VIBRATORS & HAIRDRIERS.
All BARKER vibrators and hairdriers are competent machines —not makeshift contriv-
ances to capture immediate business, but PERMANENT OUTFITS, thoroughly tested,
everyone of them.
For MASSEURS, BARBERS, BEAUTY PARLORS and HOME USE Powerful, durable,
noiseless. BARKER vibrators give both rotary and percussion stroke of smooth, even,
penetrating vibration. >
BARKER hairdriers, designed* to supply a long-felt want among hairdressers and for
home use. Blows HOT or COED air by a turn of switch attached to instrument. Dries
heavy head of hair in 10 minutes. They save time —THAT’S MONEY TO YOU.
BARKER machines can be attached to ANY electric light socket, and operate on
direct or alternating current.
Portable or Pedestal Types. A Child Can Use Them. Every Machine Guaranteed.
Sole Agents
for Australasia s
IVENS & IVENS
231 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
54 Margaret St., Sydney.
' ; ■ t ;
A
&LSJIS
" EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
Jjmam
LONDON’S FAMOUS
FAMILY HOTEL.
Standing on high ground, it occupies
a healthy and hygienic situation within
a few minutes of the principal attrac-
tions by tube or taxi-cab. Rooms
large, lofty, and airy. Private suites,
including separate bathrooms. Every
convenience, with the refined luxury
of a modern English Home. Easy
access to all parts of the Country,
London’s five great railway termini
being close to the Hotel. Moderate
Tariff. Special terms to families and
visitors making a prolonged stay.
Telegrams m . “CentellareJ ’ London .
vbn
bvnvnb
Fits “Wonder” has
No “Bromide of Potash.”
Safe, Certain Cure —
6 Bottles posted 17/2.
Write for particulars —
T. H. MERSON,
229 Collins St., Melbourne,
VICTORIA.
Commonwealth
__
Bank of Bustralia
Branches are open for the transaction of General Banking: Business throughout Australia
as under :
New South Wales— Sydney and Canberra. Victoria —Melbourne. Queensland— Brisbane and
Townsville. South Australia— Adelaide. Western Australia— Perth. Tasmania— Hobart.
And at Egypt House, 36-38 New Broad Street, London
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign Bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued to any part of the world. Bills negotiated or
forwarded for collection. Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the
Commonwealth, United Kingdom and foreign countries.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT
Agrencies are open in practically all Post Offices which issue Money Orders in the Australian
Commonwealth and Papua.
Withdrawals on demand may be. effected for sums up to £lO at any Office within the Commonwealth
1/-
Minimum
Deposit
Rate of Interest on
all Deposits up to
£3OO
BOrii January, 1913
DENISON MILLER, Governor
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting: Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queensland
offers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the prospective
settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office : 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
YOUR MORNING SHAVE WILL TAKE HALF THE TIME IF YOU GET
Ufie PLUM RAZOR.
-T
\\
X
Every Plum has a carefully-ground blade of silver steel with a velvet
edge.
It glides over cheek and chin quickly and smoothly, leaving no after-
soreness.
Get one to-day and we will keep it in perfect order for two years free
of charge.
PRICE 10/6, Post Free,
The C. & A. Moustache Trainer
shapes the moustache. Worn
at night; 2/6, 3/6, 5/6 each
post free.
We Crtnd and Set Razors, 1/- each
SAFETY RAZORS FROM 5/6.
Send for our Illustrated Price List.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-. Thisisthe
line that makes a good present.
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6.
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Stick good Shaving Soap, 1/-
The Plum Strop Dressing, 1/- Tube.
Gentlemen who shave themselves
should not be without it.
All the Above Post Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GKORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 30 YEARS.
THE BEST STOBIES written in Australia appear in THE
LONE HAND each month. Price Sixpence.
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE.
n
Made in England. Perfectly
harmless, indetectable,
and guaranteed free
from Nitrate of
Silver and Lead
Salts.
IN VARIOUS
SHADES Raven
Black, Black,
Brown, Light or
Golden Brown,
Blonde, Chestnut
' and Auburn
Price 3/6, posted 3/11
Directions with every
bottle.
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 The Block Arcade, Collins St., Melbourne
MODEL
THE HEART OF THE AUTOMOBILE—
Lmius
Schebler Carburetor
The best Carburetor for ALL PETROL ENGINES
—either Land or Marine, Stationary or Moving-.
The Schebler makes your engine develop
greater horse power for a less consumption of
fuel.
The Schebler holds many world’s records.
Booklet and all information free.
Correspondence invited.
ROBERT C. SWAN & CO. LTD.,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Sole Agents for Australia.
CASTINGS!
In All Metals and Alloys
(excepting Iron and Steel).
At our NEW and WELL-EQUIPPED FACTORY
we are prepared to execute orders for the above.
SINGLE CASTS can be made up to 8 CWT. EACH,
GEAR CUTTING IN ALL METALS.
QUOTATIONS GLADLY GIVEN.
Robert C. Swan U Co. Ltd., 304 Pitt St., Sydney
Factory—Lambert Street, Camperdown.


HORSESHOE
R
E
D
Horseshoe Salmon is pure food. It is
wholesome, nourishing, appetising and palat-
able to all people.
It supplies the widest variation of diet.
Used direct from the can or in any of
many available ways it is delicious.
R
E
D
SALMON
BARKED YOUR SHINS?
Well, trv Dr. Sheldon’s MagfJSfee^*jlment; it will
take away all the pain and and you will
forget all about it. Price, Is: • 6d. ahd 3s. Obtain-
able everywhere.*
Government Notices.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, 4th April, 1913.
APPOINTMENT OF MEDICAL OFFI-
CER (TEMPORARY), FLINDERS
NAVAL BASE, VICTORIA.
APPLICATIONS are invited from quali-
fied medical practitioners for ap-
pointment as Medical, Officer (Temporary)
at the Flinders Naval Base, Western Port,
Victoria. ' - A
The successful applicant will be required
to reside at Crib Point and attend the Naval.
Works daily. His duties will be:—
(a) Medical attendance, free of charge.,
on members .of the permanent start
at Flinders Naval Base; m-
(h) Medical attention, free of charge,
in cases of casualties and injuries
to workmen whilst employed on the
Naval Works, Flinders Naval Base.
Medicines, etc., for above will be sup-
plied by the Government. .
Rate of pay—£2oo per annum, private
practice allowed. ■'&
Appointment to be for twelve months sub-
ject to renewal for a further period or
twelve months at the discretion of the
Minister. ..
Applications, stating age and quahnca-
tions, and accompanied by copies of cre-
dentials, should be addressed to the rNava
Secretary, Navy Office, Lonsdale Stree .
Melbourne, to reach him not later than out
April, 1913.
S. A. PETHEBRIDGE.
Secretary, Department of
Department of Defence, -
Melbourne, 9th April. 1913.
Tenders for the Supply of Two Oil
Storage Vessels.
TENDERS will be received at the under-
mentioned addresses, subject to
conditions of tendering, for the supp.
two (21 Oil Storage Vessels until iwem
noon on Monday, 12th May, 1913.
Drawings and Specifications may be s
at the office of the Director of Navy
tracts, Navy Office, Melbourne, and
Naval Staff Office, Sydney, Brisbane, Barg.
Bay (S.A.), Fremantle and Hobart Cop
ma” be obtained on payment of a p ; () ,
£5 each, which will be refunded on recey
of a bona-fide tender and the return .
documents. , . frtr Oil
Tenders to be endorsed, Tender
Storage Vessels” on the top left-baß .
of the envelope, and addressed (if y u
prepaid) to the Director of Navy ' T) : reC mr
Navy Office, Melbourne, or to .the va i
of Navy Contracts, care of Disti mi ~
Officer, at Sydney, Brisbane, Lafgs •
(S.A.), Fremantle or Hobart. . neceS -
The lowest or any tender will n
sary be accepted. nrinted forth
Tenders in all cases to be on prinreu
which can be obtained as above.
G. F. PEARGE,
Minister of State for Defence.
(Also see pa QQ 40.)
IN
BANANA LAND
“F. 8.”: When the Denhamite Industrial
Peace Bill was before the Queensland Assem-
bly, Bananaland Laborites agitated for its
amendment into the similitude of Holman’s
N.S.W. Arbitration Act. Now that N.S.W.
Labor men have scabbed on their own
measure in three almost simultaneous strikes,
the Northern Tories have got a splendid
weapon to use against their opponents—and
don’t they use it!
It is significant of the condition of the
blacks who loaf about far Northern towns
that it should be a not infrequent petition
to visiting Premiers and Ministers that the
authorities should isolate one or more blacks
who hang about the place suffering from too
conspicuous disease. Denham, at Normanton.
was entertained with this request, as were
sundry of Denham’s predecessors. This
comes as a kind of pleasing interlude to the
log-rolling for bridges and railways when a
Premier is abroad.
The new Queensland Liquor Act has caused
a panic in dipsomaniacal circles; and even
mere boozers are stirred to fury over it. The
extra exes, in the way of enlarging his pre-
mises, etc., has given Bung a long-looked-fof
chance to fix the minimum price of drink at
6d. Maryborough and other towns have,
accordingly, declared a Beer Strike, and the
alcoholic struggle has alreadv begun. The
approaching winter is on the side of the
strikers, while the chronic and awful thirst
of half Bananaland favors the dispenser of
tanglefoot. The only passable apology for
the loathly action of the latter lies in the
fact that women may not now imbibe in any
bar or bar-room, and Stringy-bark alleges
that this involves him in serious losses.
“Kobbi” : The seaside publican feels con-
siderably aggrieved with Queensland’s new
Licensing Act. Formerly, the festive crowd
that put in Sundays sniffing the salt sea
developed a. thirst that could be quenched
with impunity on the one hand and beer and
profit on the other. The more the impunity the
greater and the more numerous the profit. But
since April 1 the sea-corned reveller cannot
even walk through the passage of a pub to
see a man about a crab without undue
familiarity on the part of the Law. The
Law never knows when it is well off. and is
always wearing out its legs in search of
newly-manufactured offences. In the old
days it used to have its own casual Sunday
drink with the rest. Now it is dry and
sour and has a hidden desire to be dead.
“Kobbi”: Ambulance work, which is
pushed further in Queensland than in any
other State of the Commonwealth, is not all
beer and newspaper puff. For instance, the
other day the Red Cross folk at Rockhamp-
ton received a call to attend a distant
patient. First, the bearers (Daniels and
Robson) tackled the job per motor; but
after floundering through 60 miles of the
worst road in the country, they found them-
selves misdirected and bogged. After stren-
uous attempts to shift the car, Daniels de-
cided to push on per boot. Most of the day-
light had by this time gone over the ranges ;
but in rain, slush, strange roads, no roads
and, finally, in darkness, he plugged on for
20 miles. He got to the end of his journey,
and started back with his patient—the wife
of a German settler —at daylight. His com-
panions had succeeded in extricating the
motor from its mud trough with the help of
horses. The car was then dismasted and
thrown overboard, and after two miles of
slushdragging they met Daniels returning.
Finally they reached Rockhampton after an
absence of 25 hours. And the worst of it all
was that the patient was a patient because
she had been foolish enough to eat the
“fruit” of the castor-oil plant.
WEED TRIUMPHANT.
THE F RIEND: "Hey, Bill, there's your girl goin ’ with' that kid wot goes to Sunday-school !”
THE MISANTHROPE: “ Yes. Since the bloomin' Simeraltaneous Mission come she’s got
religious objections to me because I smoke, an’ when it comes ter choosin ’ between ’er
ah’ smokin’, I goiter confess that the weed’s got me beat.”
Queensland is gradually abolishing its J.P.
—and none too soon. Writer remembers
how, in a W.Q. town, a certain Ah Loo was
being sued for debt. There was a cheerful
discussion proceeding between a J.P. on the
bench and plaintiff’s lawyer, the latter object-
ing to the J.P.’s presence in court on the
ground that he was an interested party. At
last the magistrate in question left the bench
and took his place at the lawyer’s table as
advocate for defendant, Ah Loo. Nobody
protested ; nobody grinned ; nobody fainted.
Governor Macgregor bestowed the Royal
Humane Society’s bronze medal on a really
plucky Queenslander the other day. In
February, 1911, D. R. Revenall saw from
the Pioneer Bridge (Mackay) an upturned
boat with a fisherman clinging thereto being
swept out to sea by flood waters. Revenall,
failing to intercept the boat, dived down
among the floating debris, swam nearly two
miles in pursuit of the craft, and finally
overtook it, thereby saving the life of the
castaway, a Japanese fisherman called Nobu
Moto, who had been disabled by a broken leg.
Revenall engineered the overturned boat to
shore, patched up his fractured Japanese,
and finally got him to Mackay, two miles
away. And this was in the torrid North,
where the white man has lost all his hustle.
An Admonition re Booze.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Queensland publicans are now forbidden to serve
women in any bar, bar-room or apartment set apart
for drinking.
No matter how she beg thee at the door.
Remember, landlord, thou shalt heed her
not;
Aye, though she kneel entreating on the
floor,
See that thou mind her pleading ne’er a
jot;
E’en though she be a gilded dame that sues,
Thou shalt not serve her from thy store of
Booze.
And if thou hear a tap at closing time,
And Mrs. Jones puts in a gentle plea,
Forget not she would lead thee into crime
And land thee in a dire iniquity;
She risketh naught while thou hast much to
lose —
Thou shalt not serve these tabbies with the
Booze.
And if a crone come near with ruddy nose,
And eyes that redly blink and dimly peer,
And if she break upon thy sweet repose
And beg in quavering voice a pint of beer,
Again, I bid thee, mind thy P’s and Q’s —
Thou shalt not serve these beldames with
the Booze.
And then, again, should winsome Tot or
Floss
Essay to tempt thee with their witching
smiles,
Heed not their honeyed words, their saucy
toss
Of curly heads and kindred harlot wiles ;
Ret firm thy face, their soft request refuse—
Thou shalt not serve these blowens with the
Booze.
Aye, though thy tender heart should almost
break
At sight of Beauty pining for its ale,
Yield not. Sir Bung, but stand, for Duty’s
sake,
As staunch as hearts of oak that breast
a gale;
Though e’en thy grandam fill a suppliant’s
shoes.
Cry yet: “I may not serve thee with the
Booze!”
QUEENSLAND.
F. B.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, Aprie 19, 1913.
My Dear Tiiargomindah.—
Governor Macgregor, in company with a
gripsack and a hired gentleman aide, left on
Friday for Townsville, thence by train,
motor and four-legged equine quadruped
through a large slice of the Territory which
is cursed with prickly pear and Tory poli-
ticians. Fully 19 station-owners will provide
pillows for the vice-regal head before its
proprietor brings it back to town.
Such places as Boulia and Camooweal,
whereof the bullocky speaks feelingly, will
be cheered by a lightning visit, and for one
week his Ex. will camp in the hinterland of
Cairns, where he will lead the wild geolo-
gist’s life.
On Thursday, Government House bulged
with intelligent femininity, who, after a
blow-out on pleasant indigestibles, trooped
on to the verandah and discussed the ways
and means of a residential college for women
students. The Chiel Macgregor made a few
practical remarks on the subject, and Mrs.
Kingsbury, who has the reputation of being
the best woman speaker in these parts, added
some persuasive eloquence that ought to coax
the necessary baksheesh or cumshaw from
the pockets of the sqqattocracy. Qlerics
Scott Fletcher and Morgan Baker, dominies
of King’s and St. John’s, also broke into
oratory, or as near as most dominies can get
to the article.
An alleged Venetian dance, a sort of after-
math of Henley-on-Brisbane, happened on
Monday, when the rowing championship
medals were handed over to the Queensland
winners by the chairman of the City Coun-
cil. Don’t know to whom the supper was
handed, or whether it was handed at all.
The raw fang-marks on the tables gave a
hint that it was enthusiastically rushed while
the presentation performance was taking
place. Anyway, it wasn’t there when it was
most desirable.
Laws Horsfall, manager for Edkins and
Co. of Winton, committed matrimony here
last Wednesday, Susie White, of Longreach,
being the other conspirator. The, wedding
toggery, including the bridesmaids’ frocks,
worn by the bride’s sisters, were of the sim-
ple and horribly expensive variety. The
wedding cake was torn asunder at the Hotel
Daniell.
Lattie Cameron, whose wedding is due on
Tuesday, was given a big “At Home” at
Eschenhagen’s on Friday. She bore up in
a garment of several layers of ninon, in
apricot, black and cream ; her hat was ditto
as to decoration, and black plush as to brim
—which isn’t so much decoration as orna-
ment. A big silver bon-bon, full of silver
souvenirs, was opened, and each guest de-
parted clutching a lucky slipper or some such
witch charm. It is expected that Miss
Cameron will be the most picturesque bride
of the year, but then, many people don't
know how picturesque some brides can be —
especially if they have a year to do it in.
Mary Watkins, once mistress of the Rock-
hampton Grammar School, intends opeping
a book club in the City Buildings early in
May. She is a capable-looking specimen of
librarian supported by a solid foundation of
experience gained in the Times Book Club,
London, and in the big book club at Munich.
She will pursue success in a big, light and
airy room, furnished with literature, art,
comfortable chairs and home-made ten
scones. Anybody who wants more than that
is a Sugar Vend, or an Alexander the Great
or a quicksand, or something equallv !'
tonous. J . glut '
A Queenslander has at last been
co the Lady Bowen Hospital. D r H P pw
son of the family’s M.L.C., will take over the
pill chest early m May.
The Wrenchs, of Oversea Club fntim
left Brisbane on Monday for the North Si
mail train. Don’t know exactly what nil
the peregrinating is about, but they seem t
be doing it with the Mat worthv of
cause, hypothesis, revolution, new drink n-
whatever it is.
Some years ago, the Education Denari
ment wondered why an appointment to »
certain school was always followed bv a
hasty resignation. The mystery was cleared
up when a laconic note from a squatter com
mittee-man arrived: “Teacher thrashed bv
parents of all nations. No good to the
Barcoo. Send a man with a dirtv left and
a still more dirty right, and I’ll
police-court fines for a year.”
Stanley Fisher, manager of Walker and
Co., was drowned in the river last Satur
day. A party of about 20 was motor-launoh
ing. when Mr. Fisher’s fiancee, Miss
O’Flynn, fell overboard. Fisher, with three
other men, went after her, and, although a
sailing boat picked up the girl and the others
poor Bfisher wasn’t found until some time
after it hardly mattered whether he
found or not.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
The great question which agitates Queens-
land just now is—What is Jasper Harvey,
the faithful hack who has run so many
fruitless campaigns, going to do? Without
Jasper in the field, Toryism feels much like
the British army did at Waterloo, when it
wasn't quite certain Private Murphy
was in the ranks.
Out of £26,000 required to keep the Bris-
bane hospital going for one year, the Gov-
ernment finds nearly £21,000, and private
subscribers £5000; nevertheless, the private
subscriber springs on his tail and makes a
horrible noise with his head when it is" sug-
gested that the ineffective and expensive
cadge should end, and the State undertake
the whole the manage-
ment. It is the idea of losing a chance to
shine as a philanthropic hospital committee-
man, or something of the sort, that really
hurts.
A little pamphlet issued for immigration
purposes is circulating in Great Britain
just now, and fully explains by its contents:
why the imported Britishers all flock to Bris-
bane. This volume describes the happy homes:
of Brisbane, the industries of that same city,,
its lovely gardens, its towering public edi-
fices. its stately churches, its fertile areas of
adjoining farm-land, its railways, its tribu-
tary coal-cemetery, its wharves, its river,
its commerce. As to Townsville, Cairns,
Charters Towers, they don’t exist at all. and
so the immigrant who reads this booklet is
quite convinced that Brisbane is the State,
and steers his course accordingly.


AILW/3Y15
F PST
i
A.L
r M
Shbk
. '•'v
O'
w
" O
W
r.
'item,
swf
-.
■
ImN
~
T^gL
It*
«^>«s
2#
mill
w
i
X
MW
«£1
Sit l
i
#> %
"•
.. .
•-
1 HiH
iFwam
.
rm
S
w
«s
.
m
mm
-v>
«
/v ;.
/ario
a
■ ■
4 1


BASNET CLASS
MOTOR TYRES
Give Unbounded Satisfaction
AustraliarTlourtsts in England and the Cent im‘r,l
n m
always
Demand
and grew-Delay
&
<o
«0
7
in. Demand still
>- but nomoreDel
crept
X
Delay
growing
rn
H
Our
New
plant
c>
sufficient to meet
Demands
all
is
c£
c^>
n„
vnb n
231 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY, ALL STATES AND M.
Pre-eminent
as the Queen of Dress Fabrics is the
LOUIS
VELVETEEN,
with all its charming lustrous
finish; draping exquisitely to suit
the clinging fashions of the day—
yet sold at a price within the
reach of all.
DO NOT TOLERATE A SUBSTITUTE.
Every Yard you buy
should be stamped L'O’IH'S
2/6 Jars, obtainable everywhere
Nurses Recommend
Solomon
Solution
Kxperience has taught them its wonderful
efficacy in the treatment of Rheumatism,
Rheumatic Gout, Sciatica, Neuralgia, Sprains
Swellings, Wounds, Cuts, Boils, Burns, and
many other common ailments. Will YOU try it?
Post Free 3/- from
SOLOMON COX & SON
439 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
NEW EDISON
Records for May
are Now Ready.
Which way does your fancy lie—towards
sentimental ballads, high-class instrumental
selections, band items, plantation melodies,
or comic songs?
Whichever way, your wishes are met in the
May issue of New Edison Records. These
are now on sale at all dealers, and you should
not delay in making an early selection from
such splendid Records as “Oh, Promise Me,”
charmingly rendered by the world-famous
Marie Rappold; “The Wall Street Girl,” by
Ada Jones; “With All Her Faults I Love
Her Still,” by Will Oakland; “La Marseil-
laise,” by the New York Military Band; “I
Love a Lassie,” by Harry Lauder; “Bonne
Bouche Polka (Concertina Solo),” by Alex-
ander Prince, and many others.
If you do not know the address of a dealer,
write direct to us and we will inform you of
that of the nearest, and also send latest lists
of Phonographs and Records.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale only),
Dept. B, 364=372 KENT STREET, SYDNEY
For Sale.
FOR SALE—ROLLER SKATES.
To wholesale dealers, rink proprietors
and the TRADE.
1913 Winslow's New Production Ball-bearing
“Double Bar” Extension Skates. These are an estab-
lished mechanical success. Absolutely Rigid through-
out, extra extension to a degree never before attained.
Can be adjusted to fit child or adult. Steel or
Fibre Rolls.
S. HOFFNENG 8 CO. Ltd., City.
Tailor-Made
Costumes
FOR WINTER.
Our Stock of
materials is
very compre-
j hensive; and
our T weeds
and Costume
Cloths are in
exclusive de-
| signs. We in-
vite a visit of
inspection.
Our Cutter is Mr.
F. J. Murphy.
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
Tailors & Costumers,
76 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY.
bn vbvnbn
ifjJElUikt.
BUY DIRECT
FROM FACTORY.
and we guarantee you a saving of at least
£lO. All goods sent freight free. 12.years’
warranty. A postcard will bring you our
Catalogue. Established 1875.
SANOON & STEEDMAN.
76 Finsbury Pavement, London, England.
Apply for Free Catalogue to Mr. F.
Williams, Post Office, Parramatta, N.S.W.
WE SAVE YOU POUNDS.
The Best
Biograph
IS THE
Silent
i
Empire
Unquestionably
because it possesses all
the good points and none
of the faults of every
other kind of Biograph.
Years of experience are
behind it, and it is
BRITISH BUILT.
- .v
%
JUST A FEW oF7fs
GOOD POINTS-
Flickerless,
Silent, Rock
Steady, Mai-
tese Cross
in Oil Bath,
A H Steel
s P rockets,
Fireproof,
SHOWMEN!! This is
the machine for you l
We Sto <* all Accessories
for the Moving P icture
Business.
OUR CATALOGUE
IS AT YOUR DIS-
POSAL - SEND FOR
ONE.
JERDANS,
393 GEORGE STREET
■■ SYDNEY.’
T x
r»
Ini
0!
m
V
i
and Stockings.
“ The World’s Best ”
Ask for and insist upon having 'JSSSS Hosiery'
are:
A magnificent combined product of Australasia
I and England.
Made from the purest All-Australasian Wool—
shaoed. woven and finished to perfection in the
Factories, I.eicester, England.
* Always buy when you want pure wool
hose.
Always buy when you want hose that will never
shrink—when you want ease in wearing—because by a special
process is rendered as soft as silk.
AOr£ Stockings and Socks, for ladies, men and children. In all prices.
t Of Men’s Outfitters, Drapers and Stores. If your dealer does not
stoeu them he can obtain them from his wholesale house.
In rase of difficulty write for "GaMm" booklet
Aa3o and name of nearest agent to
Jason Hosiery Co.. Leicester. England.
-BROWNING
Automatic Pistols
The Safest, Surest and Most Accurate Pocket Arm ever produced.
With these three men held 2000 troops and
police at bay for days.
PRICES: Vest pocket model. Cal. 25. 60/-; Standard Police Model, Cal. 32,
60/-; New triple safety, Cal. 32, 60/-; Military, Cal. 35, £5/10/-
OTER 1,250,000 IN USE.
Other makes, including Reform, 25/-; Walman, 35/-; Bayard, 40/-;
Webley (6 models), Colt (8 models), Mauser (2 models), Savage, and many
others.
As we are experts to the Government Departments for Automatic Pistols, we
carry the biggest stock in the Southern Hemisphere.
Get our catalogue to-day (free by mentioning this paper).
T*
ALCOCK & PIERCE,
318 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
Use WELSBACH MANTLES
mm®
m
m
M*
v.'l
Nkj-C
I
Ilsßllllfil
for EVERY KIND OF LIGHT.
Our Illustration shows a new type
of Soft or Collapsible Inverted
Mantle, which entirely overcomes
transit and initial installation
breakage. Write for particulars.
WELSBAGH LIGHT CO. LTD. OF AUSTRALASIA
302 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
380 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne. Creek Street, Brisbane. 102-4. Victoria Street, Wellington, Hi
-Ns
“DEDCERT
Kills
Cockroaches.
GEORGE COUCH &SON LD., Agents, Albert 81, Brisbane
YOUR FORTUNE IS IN „ fall
With the Hand-Reading Chart y®“ c “
your own Fortune by reading lme (j * ous
hand. If you are to be rich, happy, ‘ on g' ■ r
and successful in love, or otherwise, t ere »
plainly written on your hand. The events o > '
life: accidents, successes, illnesses, joys, “ ls ’
lucky ventures, journeys, and mix-ups' r g
marriage or intrigue. It is mos L. m i^j S yonj
One Shilling and sum ivour Birthday “ d O y LO6 | C AL
tvilj receive w „h_ the Chart your ASi the stari .
Tho Union Company,
bnbñ nb
nvbnvv nbv
A Handsome Moustache For You.
find it impossible 0
If your moustache is thin and poor, or if you
grow one at all, try the sure moustache-grower.
CAPILLARINE;
It will not fail. It has a 30 years’ record of unbrok
Order it to-day.
PRICE 10/6 JAR, Post Free. tache .
The C. & A. MOUSTACHE TRAINER, worn at night, shapes ten
2/6, 3/6, 5/6, host Free.
Craig &. AitKen,
*** George Street, Sydney
654 30 Years.


LAST DAYS!
LAST DAYS!
£lOOO
in
Prizes
£lOOO
Work of Art. Work of Art.
First Great Prize, value
£5OO
Or Twelve Months’ Trip Round the
World and £lOO in Cash for ONE
PERSON, or Eight Months for Two.
Note. —The Committee, having paid full
value for the work of art, is prepared to find
a purchaser for same at the advertised
amount if the winner so desires, also for the
Second and Third Prizes.
Second, Value £lOO.
Third, Value £5O.
And 97 other Prizes, totalling £lOOO.
Eight Hours
Great Art Union
57th Year —Oldest and Most Popular—s7th
Year.
Proceeds in Aid of the
Hospitals and Public
Charities of Australia.
Prizes will be delivered to winners free of
all charges. A list of winning numbers will
be posted to any person on sending an ad-
dressed envelope to the representative, with
stamp unaffixed.
Buy from your Local Agent on or before
26th April, or send Postal Note. P. 0.0., or
stamps with Exchange added, direct to the
representative, 165 Flinders Lane, Melbourne,
at once for tickets, and secure a chance in
this Great Art Union, 22 for £l, 11 for 10s.,
or Is. each.
All direct applications must reach Mel-
bourne before the date of drawing, May 13,
1913.
Lest You Forget, Buy To-day
THEO. W. lIEIDE, Representative,
165 Flinders Lane, Melb., Vic.
“Things done by halves are never
done right.” “Golcryst,” the new aper-
ient made from Epsom Salts, Senna,
Sarsaparilla, Dandelion, Liquorice and
Ginger, “gets to business” thoroughly.
There are no half measures about
“Golcryst.” Yet there is no griping
nor weakening. “Golcryst” has no equal
as a Blood purifying and Rheumatism
curing medicine.
Everywhere 3d., 6d. and Is. sample
posted free by Proprietors,
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO.,
Melbourne.
'Ringing for More!^
Bird’s
Custard
stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess*
Has stood the test of time
Over 70 years’ success. A
UNCLAIMED MONEY & PROPERTY.
noUGAL’S REGISTER to NEXT-OF-KIN,
CHANCERY HEIRS, LEGATEES, Ac.. Ac., price
5/-,480 pages. Robertson’s,booksellers,Melbourne,
Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, or liougal & Co.
Claims investigated and carried through
DOUCAL & C0.,151- STRAND, LONDON, ENCLAND.
(Established, over 60 Years.)
■
R-C-H "Twenty-Five”
EQUIPMENT.
WHEELBASE—IIO inches.
MOTOR—Long-stroke ; 4 cylinders cast en bloc ;
3i-inch bore, 5-inch stroke. Two-bearing
crank shaft. Timing gears and valves en-
closed. Three-point suspension.
STEERING—RIGHT SIDE. Irreversible worm
gear, 16-inch steering wheel. Throttle con-
trol on stering column.
CONTROL—CENTRE LEVER operated through
H-plate, integral with universal joint hous-
ing just below. Hand-lever emergencv
brake at driver’s left. Foot accelerator in
connection with hand throttle.
SPRINGS—Front, semi-elliptic; rear, full ellip-
tic and mounted on swivel seats.
FRAME—Pressed steel channel.
AXLES —Front, I-beam, drop-forged; rear,
semi-floating type.
TRANSMISSION—3 speeds forward and reverse ;
sliding gear, selective type.
CONSTRUCTION—Drop-forgings wherever prac-
ticable ; chrome nickel steel used throughout
all shafts and gears in the transmission and
rear axle; high carbon manganese steel in
all parts requiring special stiffness.
BODY —Full 5-passenger English type; extra
wide seats.
SPECIFICATIONS.
Non-Skid Tyres—32 x Si inch.
12-inch “Hall” Bullet electric headlights, double
parabolic lens.
6-inch “Hall” Bullet electric side lights, with
parabolic lens.
“Exide” 100 ampere-hour electric battery.
Bosch Magneto.
Warner Autometer.
Demountable Rims.
Extra rim and holders
Tall.v-ho horn.
Jiffy curtains- —Up or down instantaneously.
Top and top cover.
Windshield
Rear view mirror.
Tool-kit. jack, tyre repair kit, pump.
Rohe rail.
2-Seater, £230
5-Seater, £295
ONE of the best proofs of R-C-H
value is the number of buyers
who heretofore have been
driving cars costing from to
And there’s a good reason for it. You
get in the R-C-H the utmost in comfort,
in looks and in strength. You get power
sufficient to take you and your family
wherever you want to go, and faster
than you’ll ever want to drive. You get
an economy of operation impossible in
the high-priced car. You get complete
equipment of the best quality. And you
save from £lOO to £2OO.
The easiest way to prove these things
is to let us demonstrate the R-C-H to
you. We’ll do it whenever you’re ready.
And we’re perfectly willing to abide by
your judgment.
Correspondence invited from
responsible dealers in any
vacant territory.
HARRY W. COOPER MOTOR CO., LTD.,
Agents for Australia and Tasmania,
Crystal Palace, SYDNEY.
KERR & STEVENS MOTOR CO., 408-18 Latrobe Street, Melbourne, Sub-agents for Victoria.
BOWEN & TAYLOR, Ltd., 253=259 Elizabeth St., Sydney, Sub-agents for New South Wales.
FOSTER & WELLS, Davey St., Hobart, Sub-agents for Tasmania.
WITTMAN MOTOR SUPPLY CO., Hay St., Perth, Sub-agents for West Australia.
R=C=H CORPORATION, Export Department,
170 LYCASTE STREET, DETROIT, MICHIGAN, U.S.A.
CABLE ADDRESS: “ROBCHCORP DETROITMICH.” CABLE CODES: Western Union, Lieber’s,
A 1, and ABC 4th and sth editions, 2 in 1 code condenser.
TRADEMARKS
B.S.A.
Is your Bicycle built of
GENUINE
B.S.A.
FITTINGS?
The public recognition of the high standard of
quality embodied in B.S.A. manufactures has
tempted unscrupulous persons to offer worthless
imitations as genuine B.S.A. Fittings.
It is therefore necessary to caution intending
purchasers of B.S.A. Fittings that none are
genuine unless they bear the Trade Marks —the
three piled rifles or letters B.S.A. —as illustrated,
stamped on each part.
TRADEMARKS
B.S.A.
B.S.A*
Remember it is not sufficient to find this mark on one, two,
or more parts. It must appear on EVERY PART specified
below: —
Steering Head, Crank Bracket, Seat Pillar Lug,
Back Fork Ends, Back Fork Bridge, Back Stay
Bridge, Hubs, Cranks and Pedals.
Catalogue* and Full Particular* of all B.S.A. Good* can be
obtained from
D. Y. RENNIE, representing
The Birmingham Small Arms Co. Ltd.
4, Australian Buildings, Elizabeth St., MELBOURNE.
\l/
B.S.A.
V
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub. Free Wheel
on both gears, Back-pedalling and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop Tyres. As
ridden by FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
ANTHONY NORD6RN SONS LTD.,
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
UHLS CATALOGUE
Uhl and Sons (The Premier Harness and
Saddlery House) have just revised their
Catalogue and Price List.
Every care has been taken to show by
illustration and description many of the
items we manufacture, such as Harness, Sad-
dlery, Bagware and Horse Rugs, etc., and
offered at prices that by buying elsewhere
means extravagance.
Fill in and post Coupon NOW; we’ll send
Post Free our Catalogue, which you’ll find
very useful.
Name ..........
Address ...............
L. UHL & SONS, Ltd.,
Petrie Bight, Brisbane.
For the Country Horseman
The saddle here illustrated is expressly designed
for country use, for stock riding, etc., and is built
of the best materials throughout. If any of our
friends are requiring such a saddle they will find
this a genuine bargain-.
It has a hog-skin seat, a plated bar-tree, extra
long flaps, with points to buckle below. An economi-
cal feature is the skirt, which extends all round
and thus adds years of wear to the saddle by pro-
tecting its interior from the weather. It has a
deep, “sweepy” seat, 4in. kneepads, nickel-plated
iron stirrups, and double buckle leather girth. The
price complete is £3/15/- Mention of The
Bulletin when ordering will ensure your having a
leather surcingle given in free, and the saddle will
be forwarded freight paid. It is to be obtained
from J. P. Tally, 388 Sussex Street, Sydney.
Great Writers —
Charles Dickens,
Born 1812, died 1870.
A 'M :
• :
The Greatest of all Writers is
the pen that fills itself in a flash
and never leaks —
ONOTO
Prices from
12/- esch
WAVERLEY PENS
FOR SWIFT LEGIBLE WRITING NO PEN
CAN COMPETE WITH A WAVERLEY.
ITS ENTICING ACTION, ITS SMOOTH
TURNED-IJP POINT, AND ITS DURA-
BILITY, MAKE IT INCOMPARABLY THE
BEST NIB AND THE CHEAPEST. THE
RESERVOIR WAVERLEY CAN DO 200
WORDS WITH ONE DIP. TRY IT.
SIXPENCE PER BOX
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND DEALERS.
Wholesale Agent
ROBERT HUTTON
321 FLINDERS LANE
: MELBOURNE :


Government Notices.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, 2nd April, 1913.
VACANCIES FOR CLERKS OF
WORKS AND DRAFTSMEN.
APPLICATIONS are invited from per-
sons qualified for and dfesirious of
appointment as
(a) Clerks of Works. Pay, £230 to
£2SS per annum, including all
allowances except travelling.
(6) Draftsmen. Pay, £2uo to £220
per annum, including all allow-
ances except uniform and travel-
ling.
Forms of application and full particulars
regarding qualifications, etc., required can
be obtained on application to the Secretary,
Department of Defence, Melbourne, or the
Commandant, Military District Headquar-
ters, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
Applications must reach the Secretary,
Department of Defence, Melbourne, not
later than 30th April, 1913.
S. A. PETKEBRIDGE,
Secretary.
Public Notice.
rrvHE PATENTEE of Australian Patent No. 18,567,
of Ist July, 1909 (J. S. Todd), for “Improve-
ments in or relating to the securing of rails to
sleepers,” is prepared to enter into negotiation for
and to complete arrangements by way of license or
otherwise, on reasonable terms, with any persons de-
siring to exploit or to adopt and carry on such in-
vention in Australia.
Inquiries to be addressed to W. J. SPRUSON,
Patent Attorney, 91 Elizabeth Street, Sydney, New
South Wales.
Amusements.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
THE THEATRE COOL AND BEAUTIFUL.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.40.
THE MOST SUCCESSFUL OF ALL PANTOMIMES.
PUSS IN BOOTS.
EVERYTHING A PANTOMIME SHOULD BE.
FUN FROM START TO FINISH.
PLANS AT PALING’S
HEATREROYA E, S Y D N E Y.
Lessee : J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
ALL PREVIOUS TRIUMPHS ECLIPSED.
OSCAR ASCHE and LILY BRAYTON, with their
BRILLIANT LONDON CO., in Shakspeare’s Tragedy,
ANTONY & CLEOPATRA.
OSCAR ASCHE as MARK ANTONY.
LILY BRAYTON as CLEOPATRA.
PLANS AT PALING’S
Ad elfhi theatre, sy d ne y.
Direction and Management, Gkouge Marlow, Ltd.
A PRODIGIOUS SUCCESS,
EVERY EVENING.
The Successful Emotional Play, that since its first
presentation thousands have flocked to witness.
THE WOMAN PAYS.
A PLAY FOR THE PEOPLE.
POPULAR PRICES : 4/-, 8/-, 2/- & 1/-.
P ALACE THEA T R E. SYDN E Y.
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST PLAY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE BERT BAILEY NEW DRAMATIC COMBINATION
in Steele Rudd’s Record-breaking Success,
ON OUR SELECTION.
Box Plan at Paling’s. POPULAR PRICES : 4/-, 2/6, 1/-
Early Doors to Stalls, 6d. extra ; to Gallery, 1/- extra.
Little theatre, castlereagh street,
SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT AND EVERY NIGHT.
HUGH C. BUCKLER and VIOLET PAGET,
supported by a Specially Selected Cast, present the
Greatest of all American Comedy Hits,
THE MAN ON THE BOX.
THE PLAY THAT SENT NEW YORK CRAZY,
AND WHICH HAS FASCINATED SYDNEY.
BOX PLAN PALING’S.
National amphitheatre, Sydney!
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
BRENNAN-FULLER’S VAUDEVILLE CO.
SPENSER KELLY & MARION WILDER, Singers.
MARVELLE’S COMIC COCKATOOS.
MONTY WALKER, the “ Pommy” Comedian.
FRITZ VON LISTON, Bird and Animal Mimic.
MYSTERIOUS MIK, the Wonderful Mind-reading Dog.
THORNTON, Novelty Juggler.
PRICES : 3/-, 2/-, 1/6, 1/-. Plan at Theatre.
-pHE LYCEUM, SYDNEY.
SPENCER’S PICTURES LTD.
Direction: C. SPENCER.
THE PREMIERE PICTURE HOUSE IN
AUSTRALIA.
PRICES AND PLAN AS USUAL.
WE CHANGE MONDAYS AND THURSDAYS.
LACIARIUM AND OLYMPIA. SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEE—SATURDAY.
DE GROENS VICE REGAL ORCHESTRAS.
3d. to 2s. Plan at Nicholson’s (No Extra IJee).
ALHAMBRA theatre (Haymarket),
SYDNEY.
Direction JOS. L. GOODMAN.
PRELIMINARY NOTICE.
SATURDAY, MAY 3.
GRAND RE-OPENING OF THE
NEW HAYMARKET VAUDEVILLE
HOUSE.
Discontinuance of present routine on Friday, May 2.
' POLLER
M
PERIAL ROLLER RINK,
Foot of William Street.
A REFINED RINKING RENDEZVOUS
for
FASTIDIOUS PEOPLE.
NOW OPEN. THREE SESSIONS PER DAY.
JAMES C. BENDRODT,
General Manager.
I CKAIi D S’W l V iOLI T H E A T R £
Personal Direction Mr. HUGH D. McINTOSH.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
JACKSON FAMILY, Eight Sensational Trick Cyclists.
MISS NELLA WEBB, the Charming American Diseuse.
HARRY CORSON CLARKE & MISS MARGARET DALE
OWEN, Clever American Sketch Artists.
CUMMIN & SEAHAM, Comedians and Acrobats.
MONS. REYNARD, Dramatic Baritone, assisted by
MDLLE. ROSEELA, Celebrated Harpist.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
Prices: 5/-, 4/- and 1/-
OPERA HOUSE, MEEBOURNE.
Personal Direction Mr. HUGH D. McINTOSH.
TAYLOR & ARNOLD, American Ragtime Comedians.
WILL POLUSKI, Quaintest Comedian.
HENRI FRENCH, the Intoxicated Genius.
CHARLES ZOLI, Burlesque Comedian.
KREMKA BROS., Eccentric Comedy Acrobats.
Return for a Short Farewell Season, prior to his return
to Europe, of ARNOLD DE BIERE.
MR. WILTON WELCH,& MISS LOUISE CARBASSE,
the Laugh Makers, from the Legitimate.
Plan at Allan’s. 35., 25., Is.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MEEBOURNE.
Sole Lessee: GEO. MARLOW LTD.
Direction ALLAN HAMILTON.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Production on an Elaborate Scale of the Successful Play,
in Four Acts,
DR. WAKE’S PATIENT.
THE GREAT COAL MINE SENSATION DRAMA.
PRICES : 5/-, 3/-, 1/- Plan at Pianola Co.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MEEBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S NEW COMIC OPERA CO.
EVERY EVENING.
THE COUNT OF LUXEMBOURG.
IN TWO ENTRANCING ACTS.
Plan at Allan’s. Reserved Seats & Dress Circle, 6/-
Balcony and Stalls, 4/-; Pit and Gallery, 2/-
THEATRE ROYAE, MEEBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE OUTSTANDING SUCCESS OF YEARS.
First Production in Melbourne of
THE PLAY OF THREE GENERATIONS,
MILESTONES.
PRICES—Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-
Stalls, 4/-. Gallery, 2/-, Plan at Allan’s.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager: William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
FOR THREE WEEKS ONLY.
THE DRAMATIC VERSION OF THE WORLD’S
GREATEST STORY,
PADS T.
POPULAR PRICES. PLANS AT ALLAN’S.
THENiEUM HALE, MEEBOURNE.
JOSEPH McOABE’S ILLUSTRATED
LECTURES.
Commencing
NEXT SATURDAY EVENING, 26th inst.
Second Australian Tour of the
MOST WIDELY-READ CELEBRITY
that has ever visited this hemisphere.
JOSEPH McCABE.
The Series of Lectures comprises :
SATURDAY, 26th—THE STORY OF LIFE ON THE
EARTH.
MONDAY, 28th—LIFE IN OTHER WORLDS.
TUESDAY, 29th—THE END OF THE WORLD.
To be followed by
THE ROMANCE OF AUSTRALIA
From the Standpoint of Evolution.
THE EVOLUTION OF MAN and SHAKSPEARE and
GOETHE.
All the Scientific Lectures will be
ILLUSTRATED WITH UNIQUE VIEWS.
3/-, 2/- and 1/-
Plans and Tick ets at the Pianola Rooms. Commence at 8
CARLYLE SMYTHE.
BIJOU THEATRE, MEEBOURNE.
Lessees : Oriental Amusement Co. Ltd. of U.S.A.
EVERY EVENING.
THE TALK OF MELBOURNE.
AMERICAN
MUSICAL BURLESQUE COMPANY,
A Complete American Company of 40 Artists,
in the Musical Burlesque, in Two Acts,
THE GRAF TEIt S.
ONE CONTINUOUS LAUGH.
B~ IJO U THE ATRE, MELBOURNE.
SITUATED CENTRE BOURKE STREET,
Close to all Trams and Trains.
FULLY EQUIPPED FOR ALL KINDS OF
UP-TO-DATE ENTERTAINMENTS.
This Theatre is so well and favorably known that
further description is not needed.
Its popularity is evidenced by the crowded and'fashion-
able audiences nightly- attending the performances of the
Oriental Amusement Company of U.S.A.
AVAILABLE FOR LETTING FOR ANY PERIOD
FROM SATURDAY, 24th MAY NEXT.
Owner has placed all business arrangements in the
hands of
MR. F. J. PITCHER,
c/o FINK, BEST & HALL, Solicitors, Collins Street,
Melbourne, to whom apply for particulars as to
terms, etc.
Mr. ehwaru branscomb e’s
EIVE COMPANIES OP
HAND! E S.
EVERY EVENING.
ST. KlLDA—Season Closes MAY 5.
INVERCARGILL, N. ZEALAND—Season Opens MAY 5.
AUCKLAND, N. ZEALAND —Season Opens May 10.
LYRIC THEATRE, Chapel St., Prahran, Vic.
EVERY NIGHT at 8. MATINEE, SATURDAY,
at 2.30.
THE FAMOUS “NON-FLICKER”
PHOTOPIAYS
on the Marvellous “Mack” Screen, together with the
Superb LYRIC ORCHESTRA. fid. to 2s. Plans at
Allan’s, C. M. Read’s and the Lyric Theatre Cats.
Direction amalgamated pictures
ltd.
Melbourne’s Latest and Finest Picture Palace.
THE MAJ ESTIC THEATRE.
FLINDERS STREET, opp. Princes Bridge Station.
Continuous Matinees Daily from 12 to 6 o’clock.
3d., 6d. and 1/-
Evening Prices: 2/-, 176. 1/- and 6d. Plan at Allan’s.
LYMP I A. OLYM P i A. '
L Y M P I A. MELBOURNE.
(Just across Princes Bridge).
WHERE ARE TO BE SEEN THE UNRIVALLED
SPENCER’S PICTURES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS AT 2.30.
EVERY NIGHT AT 8.
ia/EST’S PALACE, MELBOURNE,
THE best WEST’S PICT C7KES T he best
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8. Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays,
and All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictoriai, Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be
seen at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change
everv week. Prices —6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
B
IRCH & CARROLL
(Queensland),
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of which
we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office: ROTHWELL CHAMBERS. BRISBANE.
Board and Residence.
HOLIDAY BUREAU,
*"*'76 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
FOR INFORMATION—ACCOMMODATION.
LOCAL TOURS ARRANGED.
w anted.
VT^- ANTED BISMUTH ORE! GR e
a;ailable aSSay ’ “ d
WILLIAMSON,
Box 494, 0.P.Q.. Sydney.
n vbn
I do use WRIGHTsI
Antiseptic Myrrh
'TOOTH SOAP
So have Beautiful Teeth
and a Sweet Breath. p~
serves the enamel. Heals the
gums Removes tartar. It’,
entirely free from acids, and
all smart dentists rtcommend
its constant use. Your address
.. . , on a penny postcard, sent tn
us. Will bring you a trial sample free. Large box
post paid, for One Shilling in stamps. Look out’’
rhert are imitations. Sold by Chemists everywhere
CHAS. WRIGHT CHEMICAL CO.
Detroit, Mich., U.S.A.
What
You Want is Lessons in Eloc u t i
ELOCUTION BY POST.
“One of the strange mysteries of life is that those who have somethin'/ to
say worth hearing do not take the slightest trouble to learn how to make it
properly heard.”— William Ewart Gladstone
The Distinguished Actor .
Walter Bentley
of World-Wide Fame
Teaches by Post or by Private Lessons.
The Stage a Speciality.
Many Engagements Made.
Good Speaking a Commercial Asset.
All further information and arrangement of time of
Private Tuition and Fees can be ascertained on
application at the College or by letter.
vnb
301 A PITT STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Gent.'s O.F.
Oxidised Steel
Lever Watch,
15 Jewels,
%
/
S 3
33.
15 Years’
Guarantee
If
Right to the Tick!
You wiH save
Time c. Money
by carrying an
F X asD R
WATCH.
Fairfax §
Roberts Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House
in Sydney,
23 8 25 HUNTER ST.
m=> >s><
i
Fas'
32/6 buys this Solid
Steel Earth Scoop !
Scores of men on the land use our Scoops because they cut
Channels, Drains, Sink Dams, and do ah kinds of excavating
quicker and cheaper than any other way. The Commonwealth
Government has 24 of our No. 1 Scoops working on the Trans-
continental Kailway Line.
McPherson Scoops are of easy draft, and won’t drag horses out of
’ condition; they cut their way quickly and cleanly, and are extremely
light on horse and user.
Bowl is stamped from one solid sheet of steel; no seams to spread;
same width back and front; and cutting edge is well ground.
Extra Heavy Bail of Special Steel, with strong, easy working
Swivel. Steel Runners and Detachable Handles.
High in Quality— but Not in Price.
bvn
vnb
£l2/10|- for this
Fine Saw Bench
Soon pays for itself on any farm. Saves
time and money, and banishes the weary
crosscut work. Up-to-date in every way.
Has Special Bow to prevent accidents,
Travelling Table that won’t shrink or tilt.
Special Bracings to prevent bench get-
ting rieketv. Nothing like it elsewhere
at £l2 10s., complete with one 30m.
Saw.
“Farm Tool Merchants,
established 52 Years.
554-66 & 582-88 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.


c. .#
LY CENUi
H 1 OUR
ww
l\
EB.B
~ ■Cl'ti'CL-, 111
Fine Old IrishWhiskev
OUB u* N (
k J THt
£r johm fru»V<f L'.r
nHUHth J'gpnnnwaar
m
jPf
.vass
Demand
Sir
Burkes
£? ti £r Irish
yyhiske 1
The World-wide
Whiskey
w
Exquisitely mellow,
delicate in flavour,
light and digestive.
E. & J. Burke, Ltd., Dublin.
Capital £1,100,000. Est. 1849.
By far the largest Shippers j
■k,. of Bottled Whiskey .<s3
from Dublin.
Miliars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant-
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS' HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68i PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
1
m
ILLERS
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
Black, White, Cream,
Natural, or Black Tipped
with White.
5/=
Length, 12 Inches.
POST FREE.
The Feathers we offer you
cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house.
Send Postal Notes or Money
Order payable to John Miller.
Illustrated Price List Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [4
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Estabushkd 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures. Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand IMF' AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing- Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the ioan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors —The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy. Chairman ; The
Hon. James Burns, M.L.C. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.D.C. ; The Hon. F. E. Winehcombe, M.L.C. ; Adrian Knox,
Esq., K.C.; Alex. MaeCormiek, Esq., M.D. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teese, F.1.A., F.F.A.. F.S.a.
j HEAD OFFICE : 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (O O) Whisky.
Dog's Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
WILL ANDRADE for MAGIC.
Dr. Thomas Faulkner’s
BOOK OF NATURE
and ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE,
3/6.
New 1912 Edition,
Enlarged, 32 Extra
Plates, illustrating
Female Anatomy,
handsome Cloth Cover,
5/ - Post Free.
Write for Descriptive
Circular of Contents,
post free anywhere.
BOOKS FOR HOME
BUILDERS AND
CARPENTERS. Artistic
Homes, 250 Perspective
Views and Floor Plans,
280 pages (Bin. x llin.),
5/4 ; Artistic Bungalows,
208 Views, 5/4 ; Cement
Houses: How to Build,
5/4; Garages; How to
Build, 5/4; Cement: How
to Use It, 6/4 ; Practical
Carpentry, 2 vols., 600
pages, 400 illustrations,
10/6 ; Steel Square and Its
Uses, 2 vols., 600 pages,
10/6; Hand-saws and
Their Uses, 2/8 ; How to
Mix Paints, 2/8.
imp-and any book
YOU WANT.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
Marvellously Simple ! Simply Marvellous !
n
Multiplying- and Van-
ishing Billiard Balls.
Produced from no-
where, appearing at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Com-
plete with Full In-
structions (enabling
the merest amateur
to perform it), 1/6;
posted, 2/-
Two - from -Five
Card Trick. Another
startler, introducing
something quite new
in magic. Price 6d.;
post free, Bd.
Tiib Above Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post free any-
where, with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2/6.
Mention The Bulletin.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Catalogues
FREE.
201 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE M ,
PUMPS WATER
DAY AND NIGHT
AUTOMATICALLY.
GET OUR FREE TRIAL
OFFER.
Low in first cost, easy to insta], no expense to operate, any
capacity desired for Country Homes, Farms, Dairies,
Gardens, Irrigation, Town Plants, Railroad Tanks, etc.
RIFE HYDRAULIC RAMS
RAISE WATER 30 FEET for EVERY FOOT OF FALL.
Satisfaction Guaranteed. Over 7000 in use.
If there is a stream, spring or pond within a mile—
WRITE FOR FREE PLANS and BOOK.
2613 Trinity Bldg. RIFE ENGINE CO. New York.
ñb
3 Sets Bell-Metal Reeds.
LEATHER BOUND-BELLOWS.
Price 21/- post free. (
Complete with instruction book.
MUSiC, as you like it,,
becomes doubly beautiful when played
on the
Melba
The Accordeon
with
The Silver Tone
The Best Accordeon. Sounds the Best.
Haunting melodies are never so sweet as when
they are played on this instrument. The
Church Organ-Like Tone is Just Perfect!
MELBA now charms many a home —one
would charm Yours — Why not NOW ?
The Test Tells The Tale.
Zither Models—7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6, 27/6, 37/6.
Complete colored illustrated Catalogue Free.
SOLE AGENTS
ALLAN & CO P r °P- Ltd., 276-8 Collins St., Melbourne. Bendigo and Geelong
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball
Bearing Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America,
and bv all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for ‘ii years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago, U.S.A.
“RICHARDSON"
vbn
CHICAGO
TO-DA Y
if your baby is not thriving use the
‘Allenburys’ Foods. They develop
firm flesh and bone and promote robust health and vigour.
No digestive disturbance need be feared from the use of
these pure milk and malted foods.
MILK FOOD NO. 1.
From birth to 3 months.
MILK FOOD NO. 2.
From 3 to 6 months.
MALTED FOOD NO. 3.
From &*»oaths upwards.
4Sllenburgs Foods
fUF" Pampniet on
Infant Feeding and
Management Free.
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd., Isondon, Sng.,
and MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
ARE YOU
DEAF?
If you are deaf, or going deaf, you will be glad to
hear of a simple and scientific device which restpres
hearing, no matter how old you are. No mystery or
secrecy about it; we describe it fully, and explain
just how it acts. You use spectacles as sight magni-
fiers, and in the same way you use this sound magni-
fier to hear better. Unlike spectacles, the Wilson
Common-sense Ear-Drums are invisible and comfort-
able. No one can tell you are wearing them. They
rest the ear nerves by taking the strain off them —-the
strain of trying to hear indistinct sounds. What a
relief to have done with that tiring strain. Being
made of the softest Para rubber they cannot be felt,
even when the head rests on a pillow. For the same
reason, a blow on the side of the head will not hurt
the ear. They protect the tender inner parts of the
ear, that are so sensitive, from cold winds, dust, sud-
den and piercing sounds.
So that you may clearly understand how the Sound
Magnifiers restore hearing, we give an illustration of
one as it lies in the ear. You will notice that the
Sound Magnifier is shaped like a trumpet, and so con-
veys even the faintest sounds right to the natural drum.
Being of the softest rubber, it cannot hurt the ear.
It fits the orifice of the ear
with precision and comfort.
The division that runs
across the mouth is to al-
low the removal and inser-
tion of the Ear-Drum, and
to brace it.
The shape of the Wilson
Ear-Drum has been chosen
after years of experience as
the best adapt-
ed to carry the
faintest sound.
Of course, if
you have lost
the h e a r i ng-
nerve co m-
pletely, or were
born deaf, we
cannot pretend , „
to curp you. Only a miracle could
do that, in spite of some of the
absurd claims made to-day. But
of you can hear the faintest sound,
do not despair. You will never
regret trying the Wilson Ear-
Drums. We have letters to show
you from deaf people in Australia
and New Zealand, who have been
cured, and you can be cured, too. You may wear
the Ear-Drums day and night, and take them out
whenever you wish. Children can wear them (we
have special sizes for children from six to twelve).
Even a child can insert and remove them without the
least danger.
The price is £1 (the fee for a doctor’s single
visit). This includes a pair of drums (they are only
sold in pairs), a fine nickel remover, and also an
inserter. After the first pair is bought you may pur-
chase a single drum at any time for Bs., but the
pair you get at first will last quite two years. Do
not ask for a trial pair. We do not send them out
on trial, and so they are never secondhand. Use the
Order form below, and the Outfit will be sent you
at once, with the fullest instructions. Don’t delay,
but have the comfort of good hearing as soon as you
can.
ORDER FORM.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
103 Arlington Chambers,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please send me an Outfit containing a pair of
Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums, an Inserter and a
Remover, for which I enclose One Pound. ,
Name
Address
NOTE.—Send Money Order or Postal Note. If a
Bank Note or Sovereign is sent, you must register it.
w
fV
07
l ?
WHEN ORDERING
(Mom
ALE
Insist on
FOSTERS
‘Bugle
Brand’
THE REASON IS
SIMPLE.
THERE’S NO OTHER
JUST AS GOOD.
HIMROD'S
ASTHMA POWDER
CIYES INSTANT RELIEF.
No matter what your Respiratory
Organs may be suffering from—
whether Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough —you will
find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
THE Australian Magazine—THE DONE
HAND. The National Monthly. Price, 6d.
CONFIDENTIAL LETTERS
YOU lITTTR
s
MTTDO
ZANTnCTO
remain Private whan the Zanetic
N.S.C. Copying Book is used.
You slip your note paper into the
holder, write your letter, and the
copy is made as you write (in ink).
“Letter shows no sign of Copying”
The letter is posted and the hook
put away. 400 Octavo (8 in. by 5)
letters or 200 Quarto can be copied
in N.5.C.(200, Post Free for 3/9:
or 800 Octavo or 400 Quarto la
N.S.C./400, Post Free, tor 6/.
Special Small Octavo Book, mak-
ing 200 copies, for P.O. 8/• Post
Free; or double capacity 4/3.
Zanetie Pens, 3d. doz„ 2/- gross. Zanetie Writing Paper, size
Bx «, I/- pkt., 10 x 8,2/- Sample of the Zanetie Ink pape* Which
produces this result, Free, if stamped envelope sent to .
RSufe Works, Welford Koad, LEICESTER, En*land.


RODS.
The “Perfection” Split Cane Fly Rod, n feet, 3 joints, 2
tops, cork grip, waterproof lock joints, best agate bridge and
end rings. Highest quality £7/10/-
No. 1. Split Cane Trout Rod, 10} and ll feet, 3 joints,
2 tops, cork grip, lock joints, agate bridge and end rings. This
rod is very closely whipped £5/10/-
The M.S. Split Cane Rod, 10} and 11} feet, 3 joints, 2 tops,
cork grip, solid winch fittings, serrated ferrules, snake rings,
etc. £2
Same as above, but with Steel Centre £2/10/-
Our M.S. Specialities are absolutely the biggest value obtainable.
No. 7. Split Cane Rod, 10} feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, cork grip,
nickel-plated mountings, spiral guides 7/6
No. 8. Split Cane Rod, 12 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, cork grip,
best fittings, snake rings, welted ferrules, two-color silk whip-
pings, put up on flannel-covered wood form 22/6
No. 10. Split Cane Rod, n feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, cork grip,
nickel-plated fittings, welted ferrules, snake rings, etc. 17/6
No. 12. Finest Greenheart Rod, 10} and ll feet, 3
joints, 2 tops, cork grip, best lock joints, serrated ferrules, rev.
end rings, best fittings, stained olive green.. £2/10/-
M.S. Guinea Greenheart Rod, 10} and 11} feet, 3 joints, 2
tops, cork grip, snake rings, best fittings. A first-class rod,
suitable for any of our trout streams 21/-
REELS.
No. 1. M.S. Perfection Reels, made of best hardened
aluminium alloy, patent brake attachment —
3in., 25/-; 3*4 in., 30/-
No. 3. I.X.Xi. Fly Reels, made of best hardened metal,
optional check, oscillating line guard—
3in., 25/-; 27/6; 3%in., 30/-
TROUT and PERCH TACKLE.
We are the Leading and Largest Importers in Australia of High-class Fishing Tackle.
It doesn’t matter whether
you have shillings or
pounds to spend, we will
fit you out better than
any other house. SEND
YOUR ORDER—NOW.
Hardy Bros.* Renowned Specialities.
Hardy’s Patent Contracted Perfect Reel, with ball
bearings and regulating check, specially designed for dry fly
and general trout fishing, 3 in., 42/6; 3% in., 45/-
Hardy’s “Corona Superba” Double Taper Trout Fly
Lines, made from highest-quality silk, a beautiful, soft and
pliant line, suitable for wet or dry fly fishing. Length 35
yards. 1.D.1., 20/-; 1.C.1., 23/6; 28/-
Hardy’s Improved Halcyon Spinners, very certain in
hooking—
-134 in., 2/-; l%in., 2/3; 2in., 2/6 3in., 3/3
LINES.
“Kingfisher” Double Taper Trout Fly Lines— a High-
class Line —
30 yards No. 2, 10/-; No. 3, 11/6
40 yards .. No. 1, 11/6; No. 2, 12/6; No. 3, 13/6
42 yards .. No. 4, 22/6; No. 5, 25/-; No. 6, 27/6
Perfect Waterproof Plaited Silk Lines. A good-quality
level line, put up in coils of 25 yards connected —
No. 40, 2/6; No. 30, 3/- per 25 yards
LANDING NETS.
No. 1. M.S. “Perfect” Collapsible Trout Net 16/-
No. 8. “Quicksure” Collapsible Trout Net. 30/-
No. 9. X.L. Collapsible Net, telescopic handle 14/6
CAST CASES BOXES.
No. 1. Palley’s Cast Case, parchment pockets... 3/6
No. IC. Hand-sewn Pigskin Cast Case, with dressed
castdamper 7/6
No. 2. Japanned Round Cast Box, 4in. diameter 1/6
No. 5. Aluminium Round Cast Box, with Felt
pads 1/6
FLY BOXES.
No. 1. Best Eyed Fly Boxes, with spring clips, mounted
to Xylonite—
-51 clips, 4/6; 85 clips, 5/6; 119 clips, 7/-
No. 6. Aluminium Fly Box, fitted with 69 Spring
clips 9/6
We have absolutely the largest and best assorted stock of High
Class Fishing Taokle In Australia to seleot from. Get our List—
It will save you money.
FISHING BAGS.
No. 1. M.S. Fishing Bag, made from best canvas, with
detachable waterproof lining—
Medium, 12/6; Large, 15/-
No. 2. “Perfect” Fishing Bag, made from a strong, light
cloth. Has an expanding net on front —
Medium, 16/6; Large, 19/6
No. 3. I.X.L. Fishing Bag, made from a strong, light
cloth, with detachable, rubber-faced cloth lining, and two
pockets on front for carrying tackle —
Medium, 14/6; Large, 16/6
GAFFS.
No. 1. One Slide Telescopic Gaff 7/6
No. 2. Two Slide Telescopic Gaff, with point pro-
tector 13/6
No. 3. Best Two Slide Telescopic Gaff, very su-
perior 17/6
SUNDRIES.
Wading Trousers, made from best Cashmerette, light weight,
strong and durable, all sizes... 42/- pair
Brogues, leather, with canvas upper, all sizes 25/- pair
Trout Flies, all the latest and standard patterns, from 2/- doz.
Perch Flies, very best quality 1/6 each
Others, from 6d. each
Spinning Head Flies, for Trout and Perch, a very successful
bait last season. Perch size, 1/6; Trout size, 1/4 each
Spinning Head Halcyons—
l%in., 1/4; 2in., 1/6; 2^in., 1/9; 3in., 2/- each
Flying Waterwitch Baits, highly successful—
-1 J£in., 2/-; 2in., 2/3; 2*4in., 2/6; 3in., 3/- each
Rouke Spinners, a good trout bait 96. each
Invincible Spinners, a splendid bait 96. each
THESE ARE ONLY A FEW OF THE LINES
WE STOCK. For a FULL ILLUSTRATED
DESCRIPTION OF ALL FISHING TACKLE
SEE OUR SIXTH EDITION TACKLE CATA-
LOGUE, containing a page of colored flies. The
Biggest and Best Book of its kind published.
Write now posted free anywhere.
MICK SIMMONS LTD.
The Premier TacKle House of Australia,
HEAD DEPOT: HAYMARRET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The First Successful Self-Filling Fountain Pen.
Always the Leader, Without a Peer.
Every shop should have our line of Automatic Self=
Filling Fountain Pens. “ The A. A.” is the one
pen for which there is no substitute. Its self-filling
feature is unique and so far superior to any other on
the market that it is the pen for all.
Fitted with i4kt. gold pens, any style or size, in plain, chased
or mottled holders, or mounted in sterling silver filigree, gold-
filled and mother of pearl —handsome and serviceable.
The cut herein also shows the newly patented “A.A.”Clip
attached to the cap of the pen. It holds perfectly firm, and
can be attached almost instantly.
If you cannot secure “ The A.A.” Automatic Self-
Filling Fountain Pen, with the “A.A.” Clip at your shop,
, write for prices to
RYAN, LEWIS CO. Pty., Ltd.,
521 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sole Agents for Australasia and New Zealand of the
ARTHUR A. WATERMAN COMPANY, New York, U.S.A.
NOT CONNECTED WITH THE L. E. WATERMAN CO. [1
bnñvb
7////,/////////////lh
OEr
a?
'g
>(* ~' l|t| \ j
W ,
Waterman's
(Ideal)
FountgmPen
“Safety" Type —No matter how
carried IT WILL NOT LEAK.
Upside down in pocket or bag—doesn’t matter
a bit. The Pen can’t leak —it’s sealed when
open and sealed when closed. As a pen
—absolutely/efficient. Writes smoothly, with-
out spurting or faltering; lasts a lifetime.
Nibs to suit every hand.
15/- and upwards.
Of Stationers and
Jewellers everywhere.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, Ltd.,
Koh-i-noor House, London, England.
AUSTRALIA—3SO, George St.,
Sydney.
( y\'\
SO
W 9
1
111 l
1
s
i
if
111
ill
Schute, Bell & Go.
LIMITED,
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS,
44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sell on Commission only.
New and thoroughly up-to-
date Stores. Inspection
invited. Personal atten-
tion a feature of the
business.
A Steadily growing com-
pany.
WOOL STORES Harris Street, Pyrmont.
PRODUCE STORES—Athlone Place,
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2g 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
op Boxino, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memoliy, is Id Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, os 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handvbook, is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is, 3d. Parlor Tricks and
Games, Is. Fortune-I'elling by Cards, Is 2d. All The
Bulletin series. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales, Is 3d.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty's
Ff.crets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Gui lty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9(1 and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor., 6d. Britsain fop. the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseasi :s of Horses,
Is,3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups,] Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House I’ainting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Hul ian Science,
10s 6d. Australian Pastrycook’s G uidb, Is 6d.
ñ vbn
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR •• PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. K B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos 400 Illustrations. 1248 Paces.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Hereare answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
I«“ BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH. -«
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is, posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
pqst. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River. 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own ls 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is 3d posted. ’SPEEc'ites and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits. Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Madk Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got It.
Don’t be fooled into paying- more.
Compare my prices with others ana
save your cash. gtr Established So Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking ?
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, la
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d cost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6a.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made East, is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the Ring,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. U° v krs
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is -a.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to an
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. 'Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post.
Ingbrsoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevassk’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.
Bennarr Macfadden’B Works, all at 6s postea.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. IWA®
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness an
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leatn-
i.ound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 an
guineas). * Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. dj •
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Univer
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, ci
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoya >
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and m “ sic
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by P '
posted, Bd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAV-


'/
\m
“When we get home from
school, all cold and wet,
mother meets us at the door
and gives us each our dose of
Dr. Sheldons New Discov-
ery, and then we know that
we are all right, because it
keeps us from catching cold,
or if we have a cold it cures
us. We call a wet day
Mother’s ‘New Discovery’
Day.”
Best for Children and Grown Folk too.
DR. SHELDON’S NEW DISCOVERY has won the confidence of the
parents and the love of the children by its wonderful curative effect upon
the throat, chest, and lungs. Children are particularly susceptible to
coughs and colds, and the medicine which always cures and protects them
from all dangers is the one mother recognises as best.
It is a wise mother who prepares for trouble in time of peace. She
places Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery on the shelf, and rests secure against
all winter dangers, knowing well she has the remedy which will protect
her little ones against the vicissitudes of cold weather.
ONE MOTHER SAYS:
“My little girl, who is aged eight years, had a nasty hard cough on her chest
for some time,” writes Mrs. McCullock, 114 Campbell Street, Surry Hills, N.S.W.
“It seemed to be settling on her lungs; she also suffered with shooting pains ' all
over her body. She became so bad that I had to keep her home from school.
She was very feverish, so I put her to bed. I tried numerous cough remedies, but
they seemed to have no effect whatever, and I was beginning to despair when a
lady friend advised me to give her Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery. I took her
advice and bought a large bottle, and after taking this her cough was completely
cured. Whenever she has the slightest sign of a cough. I give her a dose of Dr.
Sheldon’s New Discovery, and she is quickly well again.”
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery for Coughs and Colds is an unequalled preparation for
the immediate relief of all Diseases of the Throat, Bronchial Tubes and Dungs, includ-
ing Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs, Colds, Asthma, Quinsy, Sore Throat, Hoarseness,
Difficult Respiration and Bains in the Chest. AVhen used according to directions
is a sure Preventive of Pneumonia and Consumption. Price 1/6 and 3/-.
D? Sheldon’s
New Discover
OUGH
AND
OLDS
WHY s r CORNS AND BUNIONS
The MAGIC CORN AUBBER
Nothin® is so painful as a Corn or Bunion, or so easily re*
moved if done the right way. Onr slagic Antiseptic Corn
and Bunion Bemover removes the corn or callous instantly.
You do not have to pare or cut the corn. Just rub it gently
with the Bemover and all hardness, callousness and the
soreness is taken away. Does not make the corn sore.
No paint no danger from cutting. No nasty
Stuff to put on for a week. Just a simple, scientific
and antiseptic instrument that will last a family for
years. Bemoyes corn in less than a minute.
Posted to Any Address on receipt of One Shilling postal note
or Stamps of any State. Try one, and tell your friends.
THB UNION M. & A. CO., 299 Elizabeth Street. Melbourne.
ńv vnb
ARABI’S CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN-HENNA,
for Grey Hair, the best and cheapest, Is. and 2s. 6d.
(Observe signature, Alfred Ardley, No. 7410.)
Avoid the counterfeiter (same case, same bottle).
Genuine obtainable: —
SYDNEY: MARK FOY’S, ALL CHEMISTS, W.
ASSOMIJLL and Stores.
MELBOURNE: EDMENT’S, FOY’S, COLE’S, MAC-
LELLAN’S. ALL CHEMISTS, W. ASSOMULL.
HOLLOWAY’S
saol
Pills <& Ointment
A TRIAL of HOLLOWAY'S PILLS has meant
The Dawning' °/» Brighter Day
to many a sufferer from liver, kidney and stomach
troubles. For over three-score years and ten they
have been supreme in all cases of biliousness,
headache, indigestion, depression and other com-
plaints which usually arise from constipation.
You should also use HOLLOWAY'S OINT-
MENT, which possesses remarkable healing
virtues in cases of skin affections and sores,
rheumatism, lumbago, sciatica, etc. See to
it that you always have a box and pot handy.
To be obtained from all Chemists, Stores,
etc.
Manufactured only at
113 SOUTHWARK ST. (late 78 New/ Oxford St.), LONDON, S.E.
The Tenth Day.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
are days just like lead when
I I’d like to be dead ;
As a rule I am glad to be living,
For I see all about
Sober persons and stout
Strict attention to sober things giving.
And the funniest sight, in a world that’s all
right,
Is a Serious Person Proceeding;
So, nine days out of ten,
With ink-bottle and pen
It’s a happy existence I’m leading.
But this world that I grace is a Serious
Place,
And when nine joyous days have gone by me,
Lo! I find the Tenth Day
In its damnable way
Has arrived with its troubles to try me !
All the worries and bills and bad temper
and ills
I have dodged without thought of the morrow
In one avalanche dread
Fall on top of my head.
And I’m loaded with fury and sorrow.
Now, I deeply resent, say, the question of
rent,
Rising up like a nightmare before me ;
And the ghost is not laid
When the dashed money’s paid—
There are movings and suchlike to bore me ;
For these prosperous times hatch out house-
agents’ crimes,
And they’ve just torn the roof from above
me;
Ere these verses are writ, on the kerbstone
I’ll sit,
For right out of my villa they’ll shove me.
Then the grocer’s a curse on my slack-sided
purse ;
On the Tenth Day his scribbles surround
me;
Straight from Misery’s founts
Flow his loathly accounts
To embarrass, enrage and confound me ;
But his figurings mad to the butcher’s I add
And I think how much grief is engendered
By the title they use
On their MS. profuse—
(lt is always the same) —“Account Ren-
dered” !
On these worries mundane I keep bumping
my brain
When the cursed Tenth Day dawns above
me:
Then my temper is short
And I snap and I snort
At two people who say that they love me ;
But I cannot feel gay—though they mean
what they say
And I know that my conduct is shabby.
Ah! the one thing I miss
On occasions like this
Is a corner of Westminster Abbey !
By no calendar, chart or astrologer’s art
Can I find when that Tenth Day is nearing.
Ev’ry star in the sky
Like a humorist’s eye
Merely winks when I’m prying and peering.
With the Three Witches’ stew —a most
troublesome brew—
I have tried the Black Art. But my labors
Brought me nothing but hate
And a protest irate
From a host of uproarious neighbors.
So —nine days out of ten, with ink-bottle and
pen,
I am cheerful and very contented,
And the Universe bright
As a feather seems light.
On the Tenth I am simply demented!
Then the Universe dead is all acid and lead,
And, as dour as old Dougal McPherson,
I nroceed into town
With a terrible frown
As the Champion Most Serious Person.
n.s.w.
KODAK.
The Lion’s Head.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
NEW SOUTH WALES Government
Hospital stands on a hillside over-
looking the sea not very far from
the heads of Botany Bay. Behind it the hill
side slopes up to the summit, along which
runs the fence that marks the boundaries of
the hospital grounds. Outside of that fence'
is a wilderness of sand dunes, swamps, hil-
locks ; all overgrown with a tangled mass of
snake-infested scrub through which it is hard
to push one’s way. Yet it is worth while
exploring that scrub, for in its recesses and
depressions are the most beautiful wild
flowers of the seaboard of N.S.W. Down in
the grassy swamps are battalions of Christ-
mas bells, looking like fairy lancers ; on the
ridges above are flannel daisies; and all
around the tossing scrub waves in the per-
petual breeze.
And yet, somehow, in that loneliness of
scrub and sky there is something depressing.
The scene itself is desolate, and the beauty
is a glory of detail.
And to this lonely hospital, in the midst
of this wilderness, or rather between it and
the sea, I had come, a nervous wreck, to be
operated upon. For weeks I lay there and
the eternal sough and sigh of the surf on the
rocks below got on my nerves. I felt that if
I could not get away from it I should die,
even as the man in the next bed had died of
its sad monotony. So they gave me sleeping
draughts, and I took a grip of myself and
tried to get better quickly, for I wanted to
get away from the moan of the tree-tops
and the waves.
Still weak from the operation, they sent
me out in care of Jamieson, who was
stronger, to laze in the sunlight beyond the
line of scrub. We wandered about, by easy
stages, till we came to a grassy clearing
where birds twittered, and shafts of golden
sunlight streamed between the white tree-
trunks over the soft native grass. Round
the edge of the depression, that was the
clearing, millions of flannel daisies looked
like an artificial border.
And, best of all, there was no sound of
the sea.
I spread the waterproof rug across some
bracken after Jamieson had carefully tested
the spot for snakes. I felt sweetly drowsy.
The last thing I remembered was Jamieson
remarking to someone that he would cover
me up and I’d be right as the bank till they
got back.
A sensation of coldness about the face
caused me to awake with a start. I had a
feeling of fear and loneliness. Sitting up I
called Jamieson, but received no reply.
I scrambled weakly to my feet, with a
sweat of fear breaking out all over me.
What a helpless little child a man is when
nerves and physical strength have gone to-
gether. I screamed for Jamieson and
strained my ears for the reply that never
came. I half imagined I heard a far off
shout that came whispering down the gale
that was now blowing chilly from the sea.
I scrambled to the top of a ridge and
looked out over the wilderness. Its loneli-
ness. smote me to the heart. The sun was
sinking in a great bank of clouds away be-
yond Botany, and its last gleams were being
flashed back like flecks of spray from the
tossing ocean of leaves.
Then I looked into the shadow of a de-
pression just below me, and my heart stood
still. Watching me from between the crossed
trunks of two scrub gums was an appari-
tion. I knew it was hallucination, and
strove by staring hard at it to exorcise it.
For I had seen apparitions before in bush
surveys, and always found that if ap-
proached they changed into twisted tree-
trunks with strips of dead bark forming the
whiskers. I shut my eyes, and after a
moment opened them. It was still there,
but it had shifted its position, and was fully
20 yards nearer me, and it was looking at
me across the tops of some intervening
bushes.
Then my knees gave way. It was both
beast and human. A great black head and
face of the expression and aspect of a lion.
What sort of body it was on I could not see.
I dropped to my knees and crawled away.
* * * *
How long I crawled I never knew. All
I knew was the light faded away rapidly,
and I hustled along on all fours for a while,
and then in a crouching position I slunk on-
wards. But even in my excited state I
noticed how alike were the white gums I
kept passing, till it was so dark I could no
longer see them.
Then I heard a match struck, and there
was a tiny glare behind me. I felt a human
hand take me by the arm and a human
voice whisper something about “keeping my
tail up.” I babbled about the lion I had
seen, and went as this kind friend guided
me, till I saw a fence, and knew we were
passing the hospital cemetery. I wondered,
in a dim sort of way, why my guide pushed
me along in front of him. Along the distant
hillside I saw the lights of lanterns. Then
we came to a hole in the fence, and I was
shoved through.
I turned to thank my benefactor, and for
one moment saw between me and the dim
sky the outline of that great black, half-
human, half-beastlike head.
* * * *
When I awoke the ward was very still.
The nurse came over and gave me something
to drink. I tried to speak, but was sternly
suppressed. In fact, it was days before I
was allowed to talk, and by that time I had
made ud my mind that it was all hallucina-
tion. So I said nothing about the lion’s
head. But after that I had to put up with
the sough of the surf. My excursions were
nipped in the bud.
* * * *
“Sydney,” said the detective, “is too
darned respectable now. One time we used
to double our wages showing inquisitive
moralists and social purity howlers from
Maoriland over the dark places of social
sin.”
“Well, is there nothing worth seeing at
all?”
“Some Chow restaurants, a couple of
opium joints, and a few two-up schools are
about the full extent of it. And, hang me,
if I think we can get you into those gamb-
ling joints, anyhow.”
“Well, take us where you can !”
“All right—oh ! Thanks, no hurry for it,
you know.”
Then we made a start, and took much re-
freshment on the way. As the detective
said, Sydney had grown too respectable to
show much spectacular sin. What we saw
was merely frowsy. Once or twice we got
glimpses of Asiatic luxury in the sight of a
bland Chinese sitting in his chair with a
long-stemmed pipe, while two white women
brushed his pigtail. The women looked
much inferior to the Chow, and I began to
suspect that the gentle alien had married
beneath him.
We passed up a narrow lane, and explored
a multiplicity of small, badly-hinged gates.
In front of us rose a low two-storeyed build-
ing.
“This is ’Frisco Billy’s opium joint,”
whispered the detective. “I’ll go in first.
Be ready out of the way if a stam-
pede takes pfca'Ce.”
But there was no stampede. Every room
was crowded, and all around the wooden
stretchers on which the opium smokers re-
clined stood a crowd of eager and famished
customers, counting the seconds till they
should get down on to the hard stretchei
with the lamp between them, two and two
And all the while they waited they whined
horribly about the cruel delay and the dis-
asters it was likely to precipitate. It was
never intended, it was explained, that
smokers should be allowed to sleep on the
stretchers while other people were waiting.
Just as we were turning to go, I heard
Bynsr utter an exclamation.
“Most remarkable —never saw anything
like it in my life before. A most surprising
head and face. Great Caesar, it’s nearly
twice the ordinary human size. How do
you account for it?”
The detective mumbled something, and
B.vng called me in.
“Ever seen anvthing of that sort in your
explorations—a black man with a lion’s
head?” he inquired, pointing to where a
great robust-looking negro sprawled on the
stretcher, still clutching in his hand the pipe
that had sent him to sleeti.
The figure of ’Frisco Billy glided in.
“Any pines not in use here? ’Struth, the
place is fair stuck up for want of pines to-
night. Get busy, some of you blokes.”
He grabbed the nipe from the hand of the
man they said had the lion’s head, and as
he wined the mouthpiece on his pants and
hurried out to his complaining customer. I
managed to get through the crowd and in-
spect the cause of the excitement. Then I
staggered.
That apparition in the scrub was no
dream, after all. It was the same man. and
while I stared, fascinated, he opened his
eyes and looked at me. Then, with a bound
he was on his feet, and vanished through the
door.
(Continued on next page.)


to the Bone!
THE following case forcibly illustrates the wonder-
ful disease-dispelling power of Zam-Buk. Mrs.
M. Stratford, 59 Heytesbury Road, Subiaco!
Perth, W.A., says:—“Three years ago, while living in
Brisbane, I was bitten by a mosquito, and, on account
of the sting and itchiness, I rubbed my leg briskly.
Soon after my leg broke out in a state of ulcers,
which ate their way into holes right through to the
bone. I have had as many as seven holes in my leg
at a time, and the pain and agonv were terrible. The
ulcers were in a continual state of dreadful inflam-
mation, which added to my suffering. For hours I
have sat on the edge of the bed trying to get relief
from the burning pains by bathing my leg in cold
»water, but this, did not give any benefit. I was under
numerous doctors, all of whom failed to give me any
relief. Some suggested an operation. Then I was
attended by a trained nurse, but the poulticing and
bathing she adopted only made things worse.
“My health broke down under the awful strain,
for I got little sleep at night. My face being drawn
with pain made me have a haggard appearance, and
the awful suffering added years on to my life. I
tried every remedy and ointment I could get hold of,
but they all proved futile; in fact, I spent hundreds of
pounds trying to cure my leg. All the prescriptions,
treatments, and ointments advised by many eminent
doctors brought no good result. From time to time
I had to lay up on account of the agony, and could
do no manner of work or even walk, and at last I
despaired of ever getting well.
..... Zam-Buk Balm and Zam-Buk Pills, I decided to try this
After readmg supply. I took the pills as directed, and at the same time
treatment 1 Balm. The pills generally cleansed my system and
dressed the ulcers w coded and soothed the burning pain in a miraculous
purified my blood wMle Daim j realise(l that 1 ha(l at last got hold of t he right
manner. After 'l° n /L ue a applying the balm all bad matter was withdrawn, the holes
remedy. As I a nice healthy appearance. I was soon able to get
commenced to heap, en j o y a good night’s rest; the swelling and inflammation
about a little I “®?“ f « rt ’ a^ d d f^p^ ea red. I regularly dressed my leg with Zam-Buk
had subsided, and I’.® 1 healed, the flesh resumed a healthy appearance, and
a“;L“L £ C .r<,wn the .... .r~.“
„ „ , for Cuts. Bruises, Burns, Scalds, Boils, Eczema, Pimples,
Zam-Buk is 1 Ulcers Ringworm, Psoriasis, Teething Sores, Barber’s Rash,
Running Sores, Bad g , g Eips, and all injured and diseased conditions of
Stiffness, Scabs, Itch, Face Boms, Blackheads, Eruptions, and all Skin
the skin. Chemists and Stores at 1/6 per pot, 3/6 family size
Troubles. Zam-Buk is obtainaDieirom free from THE ZAM-BUK
(containing neartv f °^ o Pitt Street, Sydney.
Terrible Flesh-Eating Ulcers.
Suffered Agonies—Spent Hundreds
of Pounds in Vain.
MRS. STRATFORD.
*
"hub it in
Colic, Diarrhoea and Dysentery
Are diseases that require immediate attention. In almost every neighbourhood
someone has died from these diseases before medicine could be procured or a
physician summoned.
Those who rely upon physicians often find that they are away from home when
most needed.
Every family, and especially those who reside in the back blocks, should keep
at hand a bottle of Chamberlain’s Colic & Diarrhoea Remedy.
No physician can prescribe a better medicine for the purpose for which it is
intended. It is invaluable for both children and adults.
vnb
a
7
Hu 3
r-^j
l» *
iMrtttS
“ For some considerable time I have been out of sorts,
dne to irregularity of the bowels and constipation. I j
had frequently seen Chamberlain’s Tablets advertised j
in the newspapers and at length decided to try them. 1
I did so doubtingly, because I had tried so many other
things without obtaining the slightest benefit from
them. I obtained immediate relief from the use of j
Chamberlain’s Tablets and now use them regularly.
In fact I carry a bottle in my pocket wherever I go, j
and would not be without them on any account.”
ThoS. Rodda, Ouse, Tasmania.
“Seems to be frightened of you!’’ said
Byng as we followed into the pestilential
lane which reeked with the stinks of Asia,
and made for the comparative sweetness of
Lower Castlereagh-street, where the detec-
tive admitted we had seen everything.
“And you got your money’s worth,” he
added, “when you saw that fellow with the
lion’s head. By heavens, he beats all de-
scriptions. Must be dangerous to be like
that. Why, I’d shoot him dead if I met him
in a lonely place on a dark night.”
“That is if you had a gun. But suppose
you had no gun?”
“I’d never stop running till I got one.”
We had spent the afternoon at La Per-
ouse, and dined sumptuously on grilled chops
and oysters. Evening at La Perouse is
lovely, and we had watched the sunset light
fade out, and noted how the stars came
tumbling one by one through the liquid
purple they call the evening sky. Away
over Sandringham a solitary patch still
glowed a lovely maize green, and then it too
turned purple and glowed with diamond dust.
Reluctantly we got out the motor-bikes
and lit up. As soon as the lamps shed a
good stream of light we made a start. We
ran round the tram terminus and entered
the. little rocky defile. The whole atmos-
phere changed, and half-way up the hill
Byng noticed that the sky was full of a dull
glow.
“Fire somewhere, and it looks like the
State Hospital at Little Bay.”
“Good heavens ! Put a spurt on and see
if we can be of any use.”
When we reached the top of the hill we
saw the leaping flames and showers of
sparks. The fire seemed to lie beyond the
hospital, and as we rode through the gate's
we saw the building was practically safe.
“It’s the bush in the Lazarette grounds,”
said a frightened nurse who was watching
the conflagration. “The buildings are in
danger, as there are so few able-bodied men
to cope with the fire.”
“What about the lepers?”
“I don’t know anything about them. We
never talk of them here. But I know there
are some, and some of them are bedridden,
too.”
We left the motor-bikes and hurried to
the scene. The medical superintendent was
running firebreaks, but he was handicapped ;
his men were mostly invalids and incompe-
tents. He welcomed us cordially.
“I hope it will be the last time you are
in a lazarette, Byng,” I remarked pleas-
antly, as we regarded the finished firebreak
and turned to watch the progress of the
flames.
“Well, I’m glad the buildings are in no
danger. It would have been unpleasant to
have to help carry the patients; still, we
couldn't refuse if they had to be removed.
Ever seen a leper?” he inquired.
I dodged the question.
We started for the gate, taking a short
cut over a little ridge where the scrub was
thick. As we burst through this belt Byng
suddenly recoiled, and seized me by the arm,
Looking up, I saw, watching the fire and
unaware of our presence, the man with the
lion’s head. His expression was inexpress-
ibly mournful. His appearance fascinated
me, and I took in every detail. Looking
closely, he did not seem so repulsive as be-
fore. There was a mournful serenity about
his leonine countenance that had something
almost majestic in it. Then he looked
down and -saw us, eyed us for a moment and
turned again to watch the fire. But in that
glance we saw what misery was.
We shook hands with the superintendent.
Then my curiosity got the best of me, and I
inouired about the man with the lion’s head.
The doctor’s face clouded.
“The strongest and most energetic man I
have ever known. But he’s under sentence
of death. Dying by inches. YeS, he is a
leper. Whenever you see that sort of head,
keep away.”
We hurried back to the bikes, and mount-
ing clattered away towards Sydney. Sud-
denly a thought hit me. I swayed, and
nearly fell.
“What’s up?”
“All right, now. But I suddenly remem-
bered the man who got that opium pipe
after the leper—that’s all.”
“And I,” said Byng. “suddenly remem-
bered that we didn’t find out how the fellow
breaks away at night to haunt opium joints
in the city. And I remembered, too, that
there is a fool detective round Sydney who
doesn’t know a leper when he sees one.”
C. A. JEEFRIES.
These I Have Known.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MY first experience of woman was at
a gooseberry bush in an old Eng-
lish garden. She was nine and I
was ten. and we were cramming ourselves
with forbidden delights. How utterly ador-
able she seemed to me then, as, carefully
manoeuvring so as to have the bush between
us that she might not see my shame-struck
face, I asked her for her hand. Her reply
never reached me —a dreadful shyness
seized me and I incontinently broke for
home and cover.
Then came Araminta, the little dancing
girl with her father’s travelling show; and
even now, though it is years since I met
her, were she to call me in great need she
w- v.ld not call in vain. We travelled Eng-
land together in those rumbling, comfortable
caravans, showing to open-mouthed rustics
who could not appreciate the dainty grace
of the little dancer, generally in financial
difficulties, but always care-free and indiffer-
ent to the world’s contemptuous scorn of
gvpsydom. Sometimes she would clamber
into my waggon and cook a dinner for two,
which, if the day were sunny, we would take
outside and eat together in some sweet-
smelling hedge. And when, as sometimes
happens, the mail brings an ill-spelt letter,
it conjures up memories, and I know that
there is always a welcome for me on the
road.
Years afterwards there came O Tsusukd
San. She kept house for me in Kobe, and
defended the stranger from the rapacity of
her countrymen. Her face, which was as
expressionless as a turnip, betrayed no
approval or disapproval of her master’s
manners and mode of life. What really lay
behind that inscrutable mask still remains
a mystery to me. Sometimes at night I
think I hear the tap-tap of her little pipe
as she knocks out the embers against the
hibachi in the next room; and a Chinese
lantern brings back my quaint little house-
keeper. For, if I were late coming home, I
could always reckon on meeting her with
two paper lanterns suspended from two
bamboo poles. Then I would take my lan-
tern, and, hand-in-hand with her, fare home-
wards. It is not usual to walk hand-in-
hand with one’s housekeeper, but Japan is
Japan and has customs of its own.
And Olopala ! She is Samoan. She diff-
ers from most Samoan women in that she is
distressingly ugly, but she has character.
In some respects she is irredeemable. For
instance, on Sundays she will dress herself
in startling colors and go off to the Mission
Church. Returning with a far-away look
in her eyes as if she had seen visions, she
is apt to suddenly revert to type and tell
me in that beautiful soft-sounding language
of hers a story which it would be utterly
impossible to repeat. Should the fire fail
to burn or the washing prove irksome, she
resigns herself to fatalism and sits on my
verandah extracting some faint semblance
to known tunes from a mouth-organ, whilst
duty calls to her in vain. Should I scold
her for laziness or theft, she glowers at me
and goes away muttering maledictions, to
return with a laugh and one of my cigar-
ettes in her mouth to see if the storm has
passed. She is part of the furniture, now,
and I should miss her were she to go, for,
though I sack her regularly every week, this
flotsam from Samoa still persists in manag-
ing my bungalow and stealing my tobacco.
Of men, these two are remembered, both
from the Solomon Islands —Jim Manners,
because of his death; and Vaughan Peel,
because of his life.
Jim was one of the sunniest men who
wander about the earth, always poor and
never able to save the money to take him
from the pestilent climate which was killing
him. He was a man of rare purity of character
with but one vice, that of gambling. On one
occasion he had a marvellous stroke of luck,
Won several hundred pounds at poker, and
decided to leave us for Australia. But ill
luck had also dogged him, and blackwate;
fever claimed another victim. As he lay
dying he called me to him, and, to my as-
tonishment, bequeathed his gains to a man
who had always been his enemy and whom
we all disliked. “The Islands have got on
his nerves, poor fellow,” said Jim. “Per-
haps if he gets away in time, he will learn
to run straight in another country.” Then
Jim’s soul flickered out.
Vaughan Peel is of another type—a man
of ceaseless energy, with a flow of vitriolic
language, of unswerving purpose, living
alone in a savage district, dominating the
natives by the strength of his personality.
Devoted to him with a dog-like attachment
is a Solomon Island girl, whose face is dis-
figured by axe-cuts on her forehead. Seized
in a raid by a neighboring tribe, this child
was carried off to be a slave. She suffered
from cross-eyes, which the superstitious
natives decided was the cause of the un-
timely death of their chief; so she was
stunned by a blow from an axe and thrown
out into the bush for dead. Rescued by a native
woman, she was brought to. Vaughan Peel,
wbo bargained with the chief for her life
and ultimately bought her for a keg of to-
bacco. She now lives in his bungalow and
is as safe there as she would be in a
Mission station.
I love to think that, when the roll is
called up Yonder, Jim Manners will not be
found wanting, because he gave his enemy
another chance; Vaughan Peel’s short-
comings will be covered by his charity, to a
nameless Solomon Island girl; Araminta’s
pure life will surprise the unco’ guid who
consider the theatre and immorality to be
synonymous terms. And I—well, I shall
look for O Tsusuke San, hoping that she
will be there with her paper lantern to hold
my hand and take me home. Olopala, I'm
sure, will steal the key from the gatekeeper
while he is questioning her, and will open
the way for herself
S'EFARL.
The Muted Sea.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FOR that the sea had done me grievous
wrong
I cursed the sea, and, tossing all
night long
upon my couch, I lay within sound-reach
Of tall waves tumbling on a long, white
beach.
At dawn I rose (or seemed indeed to rise),
For calling me were glorious eastern skies;
And through my cottage door I, wondering,
passed
Into a silence infinitely vast
Some steps I took and paused irresolute.
What lack was here? Great God, the sea
was mute !
Beneath the sky a soundless ocean spread—
A crimson ocean, motionless, struck dead.
No more, no more the laughing waters
danced;
No more the pearl on crested breakers
glanced;
No more the surf upon the sand made call;
No more the sea’s breast pulsed with heave
and fall.
With ice at heart, and hate within me
quelled,
The monstrous marvel, trembling, I beheld —
Beheld the fruitage of my midnight curse,
And stood a wrecker of the universe !
For, grieving that the sea had done me
wrong,
Had I not slain the Beautiful and Strong?
A master-felon, in my anger red
Had I not struck the heart of all things
dead?
The sweet tides moving round about the
lands
Noontime, moontime, with stealthy, cleans-
ing hands,
Should rise no more —no more glad tidings
tell
To weedy waste and wide-mouth’d, gaping
shell.
And then. .. .near thunder my hearing
broke,
And in the rose-red morning I awoke
To hear the waves at work tumultuously.
Dear God, I blessed where I had cursed the
sea.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


WESTINGHOUSE
CHAIN TRANSMISSIONS
u
■ V.
0
0
'
m o
■
.
.
II
iO
10
(MORSE PATENTS)
For High Speeds
of all conditions
these Drives
stand unrivalled.
The rocker joint prevents
rubbing friction at the joint,
yields 98 per cent, efficiency,
and prolongs the life of the
chain. Drives of from
y to 1000 horse-power in
satisfactory operation.
Full Particulars from
The Westinghouse Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Queensland Agents—Holmes & Church, Brisbane, Q.
Hew Zealand Agents—Philips & Tike, Wellington, N.Z.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
The High-water Mark
Woodworking and
Sawmilling Machinery
BOUNDERS.
Ballbearings throughout, with consequent
Reduction in Power to Drive.
No Bearing Troubles.
High Speed and Large Output.
WE CARRY STOCKS OF PLANERS, MOULDERS, JOINTERS, RESAWS, Etc.
WE INVITE INSPECTION.
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
vbn
vnb
vbbn
vbn
If you require a
Simple, Economical,
Reliable and Moder-
ately-priced Car, it
will pay you to
investigate the
vbn
22-h.p.
Friction Drive,
4-cyl., Water-cooled
Roadster.
£lB5 Nett.
-v, L ’" ' < ' ' < ' l /■ c
THE SIMPLE CAR
FOR THE COUNTRY.
Write for Catalogues.
The Famous INDIAN Motor Cycles.
Twin-cyL, 7 h.p., Free Engine Clutch,
Two-Speed ‘Gear.
The Waverley
THE DOCTOR'S
IDEAL CAR.
British built, 4-cyl.,
12/14 h.p., Bosch
Magneto, Zenith
Car b u retter, 9ft.
Wheel Base,
£350 Nett.
Sole Agents:
vnb
375 Kent Street,
SYDNEY. [2
CUTS
on
HORSES
FLINTS MEDICATED OIL
Is wit hout doubt the most surprisingly prompt cure for Saddle Galls, Cuts,
Fistula or Broken Knees on horses. It possesses the rare merit of healing
without leading any blemish, the hair growing in the natural colour. This
distinguishes Flint’s Oil from every other preparation. Price 35., from most
stores throughout Australia, and procurable through any wholesale house
such as Elliott Bros., Sydney and Brisbane, or from
C. B. FLINT,
Manufacturing: Chemist,
ADELAIDE.
THE LONE HAND
A
Monthly Guide for everything
Australian;
n
igHf
-j
Economy Tiering Machine.
A machine for stacking alt goods to
any height limited by size of machine .
For Stacking Wool and Skins in Woolsheds.
For Stacking Stores for Storekeepers.
For Stacking any goods" in a quick, cheap and
effective way.
Parsons Trading Co.,
write for full particulars to 340 Kent St., Sydney. Equitable Buildings, Melbourne.
HEALTH IN EVERY BOX.
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
. . . AT . . .
THE BANKING HOUSE, 228 Pitt Street,
Opposite PALACE THEATRE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LENDS MONEY ON ALL SECURITIES, including Furniture,
FROM 10 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
FRED. McWILLIAM, Manager
HIGH-SPEED TENONING MACHINE.
BUILDERS, CABINET MAKERS and JOINERS
TO SUCCESS
by Installing
KIRCHNER’S
High Speed 8 Modern Labor Saving Machines
Write for Information and Advice
to the MANUFACTURERS,
KIRCHNER & CO.,
32 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
A Waterous’ Band Eliminates
Waste Timber and Time.
There’s no waste with a “Waterous” Band Mill. It saws the
timber fast—for it’s a high-speed, modern machine —but it also
makes for greater economy in working. The carriage is a type
that ensures the logs being accurately sawn; the head blocks have
a taper, adjustment and a reliable rack and pinion.
We’ve an expert on our staff who will gladly give you the
the benefit of his 30 years’ experience in Canadian, Australian and
Continental methods of cost-cutting, if you will but write and ask
him. Do it the first chance you get.
We also stock Garrett’s Portable Steam Engines, Circular Saw
Benches, Panel Planers, Tenoning Machines, Spindle Moulders, and
all Wood-working Machines. \
CASH OR TERMS.
T. M. (SOOPALL & CO. Ltd.
Universal Machinery Merchants,
303-5 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Fire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, oivcall and inspect.
MACK LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS; SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office : 19 Queen Street.
Electric Storage Batteries
for All Purposes.
Traction, Town, House and Train Lighting Cells.
HIGHEST EFFICIENCY, LONGEST LIFE.
Supplied to the Governments of Queensland, New South Wales,
New Zealand and Westralia.
107 BATTERIES INSTALLED IN AUSTRALIA.
Manufactured by the D.P. Battery Co., Limited, Babewell,
England.
Sole Australian Agent—
T. K. STEANES, 37-4-3 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
DICK’S PATENT
BELTING.
•VlVlVfl 3NMN3O
ONV IVNIOIHO 3HX
TRADt.
ñ
MARK
The STRONGEST »»<} most EFFICIENT yet product
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a sniard against inferior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feel*
*
Sole
Importers:
James
Hardie & Do,
West Circular Quay,
and at Me
HE
MACHINES
° 4Lc £TY &C 0 LID M
“TANQYE ”
Portable Oil Engine.
/
Above il'us ration .shows an up-to-date '• GANE ” Milking Plant,
. r,\cii by a “TANGYG” Oil Engine.
Dalgety’s Machinery Department,
liller’s Point , SYDI
and AH Branches.
FOR-
"TANGYE”
Oil and Benzine Engines, Suction Gas
Plants, Steam Engines, Vertical
Boilers, Irrigation Plants and
PUMPS of all descriptions.
•• CLAYTON & SHUTTLEWORTH ”
Portable, Steam and Traction Engines.
“NICHOLSON &, MORROW
Harvesters, Drills, Cultivators, Ploughs.
■GANE” MILRING MACHINES,
with Patent Automatic
Milk Releaser.
bvn
THE ORIGINAL
“PICKERING 1 ’ PATENT GOVERNOR
We are Sole Agents for this State for the above, and
call particular attention to the new BALL SPEED RANGER
with which this Governor b> equipped, which readily secures
a wide range in adjustment of the Engine speed, and gives
equally close regulation at either extreme or intermediate
points.
This Patent BADE SPEED RANGER will enable you to
vary your Engine speed approximately 50% from the mini-
mum without any change in the Pulley.
We carry stocks of all sizes up to and including 6in.
In ordering specify if you want with, or without. Valve;
with, or without, stop motion.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
74 Clarence Street, Sydney.
m
ñb
That ceaseless progress towards perfection
demanded of makers of sheep shearing
machinery to-day, finds its highest reflection
in the “laster.”
All parts guaranteed interchangeable with
the ‘“Wolseley.” Write for catalogue.
“Lister” duplicates spell greater satisfac-
tion by virtue of unequalled superiority.
As in machinery, so in repairs, we excel.
. t Sole Agents
Dawoaß GedyE & eg, Sydney.
nb
(Sydney) Limited,
115 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
45 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
(Melbourne) PropyLtd.
499-501 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
Commercial Bank Chambers, PFRTH
St. George’s Terrace, il'Alii.
Messrs. STEELE & BAKER,
lowman Buildings, King William Street, ADELAIDE.
Electrical Engineers
and Contractors.
nb
SUNSHINE
ENGIN
for driving Chaffcutters, Saw Benches, Pumps, Dynamos, Graders, Hoists, Mortar Mills, etc.
H. V. McKA Y, Sunshine, Vic. Adelaide Brisbane —Sydney Melbourne.
t
ST.UO
M
Showing Method of
Mixing Ingredients.
isoo ynoA aonaaa saawav
by
using
bn
(Patent Explosive Compound)
The Cheapest Farm Help.
WILL blast trees and stumps—break hard pan—dig ditches—subsoil, etc.
Now being used successfully by Agriculturists and Vignerons throughout Australia.
) Ask for our Illustrated,Pamphlet, giving full particulars and instructions for use.
No Magazine required. Forwarded as ordinary merchandise.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS—
LTD.
Equitable Buildings, Sydney
525 Collins St., Melbourne
