

R’£» THE WHISKY OF MANY MERITS.
B. Car. WATKINS SC. CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes of SE.CUIVITY,
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
N.S.W. MONT DE PIETE D. & I. CO., LTD.,
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite National Amphitheatre.
Telephone: No. 225 Central.
And at
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, Cenerai Manager.
BCOBAJFtX.
aw* —
fiadleys Orient fjotel.
Q
UEEN OF STATES
BACON and HAMS.
QUEENSLAND CO-OP. BACON CO. LTD., BRISE
>»
PIONEE|>
LEATHER BELTING
Guaranteed
J. C. Ludowici <& Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
V-
BUTTONS
MmslM.
S.H.B
CHUBB’S
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
32 RECIPES
for preparing a variety of the most
dainty Desserts with
arsmsm
J
U
will be forwarded, Post Free to Any
Address, on application to
T. 8., Box 577, G.P.0., Sydney.
< * I
are specially constructed to ensure Long
the silveriown rubber CO.,
SYDNEY—MELBOURNE— NEWCASTLE
DJ P BECK’S LAGER BEER
A
Excels all other roofings because it is the most artistic roofing made—because it is durable as well as artistic—
because it is easy to lay and easy to get effects with. We shall be glad to send you Samples and Booklets.
o
THE PARAFFINE PAINT CO. (Manufacturers of Amiwud),
, D. S. EVANS,
Australasian Manager,
Chailis House, SYDNEY
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE* CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L™
THE- CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T -
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
LIGHTING
COOKI NG
H EATING
IDEAL PETROL
AIR CAS
MatYirhieW.
MACHINERY MERCHANTS
352 KENTSTREETnearKindS*
SYDNEY 5
ll*-
HELIDON SPA
A French savant says that the great value of a mineral water lies
in what it deports rather than in what it imports into the system.
STARKEYS LTD., Ag^ts,
Phillip St., Sydney, and Redfern
The Bulletin
Y01.34.—N0. 1766.]
[Thursday, December 18, 1913.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NOVELS WORTH WHILE
YOU could not give a better CHRISTMAS GIFT than a GOOD STORY. Select one from, the following:
Hutchinson’s HAPPY WARRIOR.
Burnett’s T. tReMBARON.
Harrison’s V.V.’s RYES.
Wentworth’s FIRE WITHIN.
Page: WHERE STRANGE ROADS GO DOWN.
Glyn’s THE SEQUENCE.
Rives’ VALIANTS OF VIRGINIA.
Barclay’s BROKEN HALO.
Thurston’s RICHARD FURLONG.
Hitchens’ WAY OF AMBITION.
Ward’s CORYSTON FAMILY.
Peterson’s LURE OF THE LITTLE t»RTJM.
THE WAY HOME, by author of “The Inner Shrine.”
Chambers’-'BUSINESS OF LIFE.
ALL AT 3/6 EACH. POSTED, 3/9. ' /
At GEORGE ROBERTSON S CO. PROPTY, LTD., 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
DEATH TO FLIES!
The New Non-
Poisonous Powder.
Kills AH Insects.
This Powder is Infallible in destroying all insect pests, but is absolutely harmless to Canaries,
Dogs, Poultry ; in fact, all animals and man.
FREE SAMPLE.
Write to “ Mustuie,”
Dept. H, Box 1520,
G.P.0., Sydney, for
trial tin ; sent Post
Free.
T RAOK MARK*
KILLS FLIES,
FLEAS, BUGS,
MOSQUITOES.
SOL-b IN TINS, 9d. EACH.
Chemists and fctores.
The Certificate issued by the Royal Government’s station of Chemical Analysis at Klosterneu*
berg (Vienna) states: “The trials- made have proved that the . powder operates quickly to stun ana
kill insects.’’—The Manager. (Signed) Pr. DR. L. ROSELEK,
This report from the Government Laboratory is. undoubted proof of the value of “MUSTDIE for«
the destruction of insects.
CAUTION.—“MUSTDIE” must not be mistaken for insecticide or common insect powders, some of
which are sold under fancy names, for “MUSTDIE” contains an ingredient particularly fatal to the
common house pest, aptly termed “The Typhoid Fly.” I*
November
The Red Page.
The sonnets on our November are hardly
up to the October sample, and still there are
too many entries that are not sonnets at all.
It should be surely unnecessary to state
that a sonnet must have 14 lines ; that its
rime-scheme for the first eight lines must
be: a, b, b, a, a, b, b, a; for the last six
lines there may be two or three rimes,
almost in any order, except that, under the
conditions laid down for these competitions,
the last two lines must not have the same
rime; and that each line must consist of
five iambic feet. These are the mere tech-
nical requirements: the winning sonnet'
must have more than technical correctness.
Eleven of the entries were cast out because
in form they were not sonnets, and several
that had a chance of winning were rejected
on some technical ground.
E- Sparrow, like the Commonwealth
Statistician, rimes dawn with corny but
not even the authority of George Handley
Knibbs suffices for the acceptance of this
vagary. And “Mick Much” complains.
(For all complete sonnets quoted space-
rates are paid) :
Take it frum me the flamin’ time’s not up
Ter wot it's cracked ter be; I feel dead crook
With summer blazin’ on me since I took
Me tip among the spielers at the Cup.
The flies ’a’ got me bunged blind as a pup
One side, yet I must alius ’ave a look
Fer fear the mutton’s movin’ on the hook,
An’ screw the drink before I take a sup.
Them blokes wot skite o’ summertime an’ spring
They oughter do some yakker—ain’t it dirt
Thet dust an’ hotwind blaze should make ’em sing?
The way the days ’ang- out ! —me bit o’ skirt
Won’t smoodge till dark, no, not fer anything!—
Me socks ’ave burrs—there’s speargrass in me
shirt!
W.S.D. rimes beat with crime in a son-
net that had a chance, as will be seen from
its conclusion: —
She plucks the young rogue summer from his eot,
Gives him a kiss, downsets him on his feet,
Then with the cradle vanished from sight.
The lack of distinction in the octette
casts out L. Lee. His conclusion merits
print
Ah me! December lies in wait for thee ;
His warm hreath even now thy pearls embrown ;
His burning eyes note all thv ripening charm.
Will he. imnatient, hot, too eager be
And kill thy promises?—or softly drown
In tearful sighs the power to do thee harm?
Other sonneteers of merit are B. C.
Marriott Watson, George Powick Brown
(with a too categorical geographical son-
net), Duncan Brown (who becomes too
prosaic), L. A. Eoylett (who is too fond of
vague, high-sounding phrases), and Rudolf
N. Augstein (whose charming allegory has
little relation to November).
So, out of the 43 sent in, we find five for
final decision. M. Forrest paints an en-
chanting picture; but her palette is not
big enough for Australia.
The tired hills have drawn a lilac veil.
Like odalisques they sleep, while here and there
Glints as a jewel in the dreamy air
An iron roof through gum boughs blurred and
pale.
Beyond the purple pine-fringe of the dale
From the cool crooning of some weedy lair,
Flicks as a beckoning finger far and fair,
The wizard snaring of a rose-white sail....
Oh, we remember, all the breathless day
The highway of the river, smooth and green,
The rippled racing of the wind-caught hay
The islands where the ragged palm trees lean,
Brown seaweeds lying amber breasts between,
And long wet locks in darling disarray !
“Kuaka” comes very near the thing
desired. His sonnet is workmanlike and
pleasant, yet just lacks a note of distinc-
tion.
A maid of moods and wayward fancies this,
Who looks with frowning eyes upon the world,
Around her feet the roses, rain-impearled,
Uplift their glowing petals for her kiss ;
Nought of her largesse gives her passing bliss,
Unheeded round her- are the leaves unfurled,
Unseen the cloud of falling petals whirled
Of poppy red and purple clematis.
So broods she, knowing well she may not see
The harvest of the corn she knew at birth,
The full fruition of the laden tree,
Nor hear the sound of summer’s joyous mirth;
With sighs she goes, and watches, jealously,
December’s flaming feet o’ertread the earth.
D. Allen’s delightful effort is disqualified
by glaring faults in the rime-scheme of the
octette; but his humor places him in this
column :
I not so long a little sonnet made,
and headed it “October, rose-lipped lass,”
and sent it her (I was a perfect ass),
for now (misfortune!) I have wed a jade,
tormentful, troublous, though a virgin sure,
a spinster soured by adverse beauty shows,
all smart and ripe, and witted quick for blows,
a suffragette—she has no other flaw.
Seeing me yesterday October-sad,
she cast at me her fiery dartful eye
and knocked my hat off, filled my eyes with dust
and straight west-winded me, the mad
Virago ; look ! with hair blown all awry,
her sallow visage vanished in that gust.
So we are left with two: S. Elliott
Napier and Nina Murdoch (77 Ben Boyd-
road, Neutral Bay, Sydney). The former
came a good second in the October competi-
tion. And the latter was a winner
in another recent sonnet competition. And
neither of these sonnets is up to 4he
level of Gladys Kernot’s “October.”
(This month she did not compete.) S.
Elliott Napier is again placed second. His
octette is admirable, but his sestette thinly
spreads a thin idea. The sixth line but
repeats the fourth —in idea.
The winning sonnet has a weak phrase,
“on either hand,” where no weak phrase
should be. Yet she has painted, perhaps
with too much detail, a landscape that is
distinctively Australian; and then in broad
strokes put against that background the fine
figure of our November.
Deflower’d Spring lies haggard to the sky,
Dead and despoil’d, her golden tresses shorn
To make a tassell’d trophy for the corn ;
Her cheek’s fair flush, the azure of her eye
Purloin’d to paint the rank convolvuli;
The locust-sycophants, with strident scorn,
Now mock at her who freed them vestermorn
And hail November, come to see her. die.
November, glowing in her glad attire,
Young summer’s mistress, with love-loosen’d
hair,
Shows no soft shyness; her assertive charms
She proffers freely to her lover’s
Drunken with youth and warm with perfum'd
air
She yields herself and wantons in his arms.
NOVEMBER.
By NINA MURDOCH.
Swift have cicadas wakened through the
land,
With endless thridding; every mangrove
creek ,
Teems with a myriad ctabs, that ravenous
seek
To stay their hunger in the oozy sand.
While shrill mosquitoes in a noisy band
Hanging above the waterholes bespeak
The Summer time; and countless parrots
streak
The scrub with vivid red on either hatid.
So, now her offspring spaivned, and harvests
done,
Nothing more splendid can the year attain ,
And, resting for a tittle space, she lies
Stretched at full length beneath the scorch-
ing sun,
With flanks still heaving from her travail
pain,
And calm of great achievement in her eyes.
The Australian Woman
We learn, with gratitude, from Jessie
Ackermann’s Australia from a Woman’s
Point of View (Cassell, per Dymock’s
Library) that Kenneth Mackay is Aus-
tralia’s National Poet. We learn other
things: “Australians are mere imitators.
They are positively unable to originate.
Everything is a copy, with some small
alteration, usually a disadvantage to
the subject.” And : “It cannot be said that
there is yet a generation of Australians
who bear the imprint of Australian atmo-
sphere.” Yet the author makes many-
sane and penetrating observations. The
Church comes in for vigorous criticism
—its callous neglect of the backblocks in
favor of our brown and mottled brother
overseas, its inadequate financial provision
for the ministry, its aloofness from modern
social problems, the neglect of the vote by
the Church woman. And she speaks a vig-
orous word for the parson's wife in the back
country. “I would rather be a doormat in
the house of a.> political foe than a minister’s
wife in Australia. In the home she is first
of all wife, Which usually means mother of
an abnormally large flock, for which she is
housekeeper, charwoman, cook, dressmaker
and general factotum, to say nothing of
scavenger-at-large for the Church, where she
becomes the receptacle ,of gossip, scandal
find all other deadly moral germs which
would corrupt a statue, but from which she
cannot flee, because she has no rights which
anyone is bound to respect, She is the
preacher’s wife, the unoaid curate of the
Church, and the target of the whole com-
munity. Her home is an inn for all mem-
bers, open day and night, and meals, especi-
ally teas, at all hours. The only difference
between a preacher’s house and a properly-
constituted inn is that no profits are de-
rived from a bar. The first duty of the
women of a country parish is to form them-
selves into a Humane Society—a society for
the prevention of cruelty—to preachers’
wives.”
The author finds that in Australia wives
and daughters systematically and success-
fully manage their husbands and fathers,
while the men seem sublimely unconscious
of the fact. But Australian women are
“royal mothers,” though mothers of all
classes are overworked. Australian children
are “sadly deficient in the personal charm
of pleasing manners,” are very excitable by
temperament, and extremely noisy. But in
time “the romp wears off,” and there is de-
veloped a grace of manner. Commenting on
the fact of the extremely small percentage
of Australian boys that were rejected as
unfit for training under our Defence regula-
tions, Miss Ackermann justly says: “It is
very doubtful if any other country could
clear so large a percentage of physically
sound lads between the of 13 and
14 years. There seems little danger of the
decay of the race in Australia.” Also, “the
women of Australia are. so delightful, and so
full of common-sense in most things, one
never ceases to admire them.”
Jt
“The great difficulty is the lack' of a
national (woman) leader who could carry
the women out of the dense ‘anti’ atmosphere,
and unite them, regardless of party or re-
ligion, in the bonds of a common cause, to
secure just and honest laws, fat women and
children. Strange to say, among the many
gifted women there is not one with the genius
of organisation and the ability of generalship
in the entire Commonwealth who could
direct the women of the nation —not one!”
The au!''or fhsls remuneration to shop
and factory g is criminally low —but does
not compare • r rates of nay with those in
other eoUntr: s. Alts! it. ha. she says, pro-
bably is the working my,. y n-radise, but it
is far from a celestial on-A ~n for working
and business girls. “I' m -.e.stic occupation is
the only well paid occupation for women.”
The real Australian girl, we find to our
surprise, has not yet arrived. Speaking
generally, however, she is a “really delight-
ful creature.” But though there is a lot
of common sense about her, she has never
applied it to originating dress suited to the
climate and setting of the country. She is
the freest girl in the world, yet she allows
her wedding gifts to be displayed to the
wedding guests, and throngs Government
House. She can cook, play games and sew,
but she is not s) udious. She has a marvel-
lous genius for organisation, she is not self-
ish. and she realises that this is Her Chance.
The world will hear much of her in years
to come : she will make history. But among
shop-girls “a larger degree of ‘class distinc-
tion’ is found than that which exists be-
tween those sections of society termed
‘classes and massed’ No one would suppose
that a shop-girl, or a set of shop-girls, would
take their social status from the class of
people, the social rank, of the customers
dealing with the houses where they are em-
ployed. Yet such is the case.” As one
said, “You know, we never mix socially with
the girls from other shops.” And the vanity
of dress is the besetting sin of the Aus-
tralian girl—and, let us. add, of every other
girl.
Finally, struck by the fact that Aus-
tralia is the largest importer, in proportion
to its population, of any country in the
world, Jessie Ackermann points the Bulle-
tin moral: “Australia, according to its
population, is the largest consumer of
sweated slave labor in the world. I say
slave, because, if workers are obliged to sub-
mit to sweating wages in order to keep on
earth—that is slavery.”
Jessie Ackermann writes sloppily, but her
outlook is that of an intelligent democrat,
and her sympathies are predominantly Aus-
tralian. It is a pity, however, that she did
not confine her studies to her special subject
—the Australian Woman..
A Statistician’s Stanzas
George Handley Knibbs, Federal Statis-
tician, is an author of whom lately we have
despaired. Each year he courageously issues
a big volume, The Commonwealth Year
Book; but both in matter and style there
seems no annual improvement in his work.
The latest Year Book actually repeats much
of the contents of the previous issue; and
there is a noticeable lack of inspiration in
many of his prose poems. He treats of a
wide range of subjects, but in a matter-of-
fact way: his literary style has been evi-
dently founded on that of Euclid. Some of
his effusions are no more exalted than a
grocer’s bill or a bank-book. However, in
his new volume, Voices of the North and
Echoes of Hellas (Alston, Rivers, 5s.), he
gives evidences of improvement. Thus,
turning from such dull subjects as birth-
rates and trade, he scientifically investigates
the alluring origin of the kiss.
What subtle sprite or happy wight,
Or phantom limp or joyful imp,
Taught us to kiss?
Or was it naught but happy thought,
Some flash of light from Heaven bright,
Where all is bliss?
Did Adam know or Eve bestow
In Paradise, ere man was wise,
Such bliss as this?
Or was it just—I think it must
Have chance; a lightning glance
Of eye, then kiss?
Must we Relieve that first ’twas Eve
Who taught that lips, in Love’s eclipse,
Must join their bliss?
That sweet caress must ever bless?
That Heaven lies in Love’s surprise,
A true-heart kiss ?....
Perhaps.... but it is Knibbs’s business to
know. The Commonwealth Statistician has
all the statistics at hand; yet he fails to
present us with: (1) a comparative table of
the relative frequency of kisses in (1) Aus-
tralia, and (2) other countries: he does not
give the percentage of kisses to the density of
population in different countries, nor even a
graph showing clearly the influence of kisses
upon (1) marriages. (2) divorces, (3) the
birth-rate; he draws no conclusions from a
comparison of the numbers of kisses given by
average lovers (1) in daylight, and (2) in
darkness: he does not even record all the
known varieties of kisses, or their relative
frequency eacli decade. Instead of these,
this statistician gives us merely stanzas, and
where we look for conclusions he hazards
suppositions. There is not even an appen-
dix wherein we might.pursue this subject our-
selves. Similarly his treatment of another
interesting subject is merely conjectural:—
Do you remember, dearest,
That pight beneath the stars;
When heart to heart was nearest;
When naught was there that mars;
When glow of all existence
Seemed living in our veins;
When dear Love’s mad insistence
Threw to the winds the reins
That guide our poor, frail beings
O’er Life’s strange roads and ways?. ..
Jt
However. Knibbs is a poet. In his hours
of relaxation his hobby leads him to the pro-
duction of sad statistics: innumerable vol-
umes of Year Books testify to his misan-
thropic and mistaken industry. But this
big volume Comprises free translations and
paraphrases of Finnish poetry, a senes
of “original poems based upon a num-
ber of the most beautiful of the folk
songs of Finland,” , a free translation
from the German of Ernst Ihnkp’s
poem, Eros and Psyche , and—stranee
conjunction !—echoes from the Greek. “i t ; s
for the reader to say how far the spirit of
the volume is Hellenic, modified by that more
profound insight into the hopelessness of un-
alloyed Hedonism which characterises phi]
osophy to-day, and transformed by that
enlarged conception of Time and Space which
constitutes one of the most splendid heritages
of modern thought.” And, despite the poet’s
elaborate definition, there are several of the
poems in his “Songs of Death” that are more
interesting than the exquisite and poig-
nant tables of death-rates that cast
a gentle and refined melancholy over
so many of the most beautiful pages
of The Commonwealth Year Book. “The
Statue of Memnon,” the “Ode to
Night,” and “The Phantom Universe” con-
tain many stanzas worthy of inclusion in
Knibbs's forthcoming yearly volume. Stanzas
such as these illumine work that is talented
and painstaking, but seldom inspired.
When pall of night o'erspreads this hapless
earthly sphere,
With awe we look on high at blaming suns,
and feel
That tee behold but motes in tether-ocean,
here,
In our own little realm of spatial deeps.
We lcnecl
Overcome, bewildered, and with touch of
things immense
We seem to see that Life and Hope and
Thought are naught;
That underneath the sun, in Web of Maya
caught,
The greatest things are those of Space and
Time and Sense. ...
Will Soul from Worlds on Worlds then ever
see
Some wondrous glowing Sun, whose
brighter beams
Shall wake within it richer melody?
And shall at last there flow from it, like
streams
Of Music, some diviner flood of Sound
That makes the newer world with Joy
abound?
Ah Hope! Art thou then only a trickster
strange,
And but a mocking sprite that speaks in
rain?
With all the (eons witness naught but
Change,
That changeless spurns the Soul with high
disdain?
(treat Soul! Why hidest thou from us the
Truth,
That could endow our broken souls with
Youth?
All this is hopeful. It is evident that
Knibbs can let himself go if he likes. If he
will dismount from his tiresome hobby, and
put into his statistics some “Voices of the
North” and an assorted lot of “Echoes of
Hellas,” the forthcoming Commonwealth
Year Book will be something more than a
depressing scrap-heap of statistics. Let
Knibbs but trust to his inspiration, let him
free himself from the carking shackles of
mathematics, and he will give us a Year
Book that will proudly lie beneath many a
flapper’s sentimental pillow, that will be
read and re-read, with tears, by many a
Paolo and Francesca, “A book of Knibbs’s
underneath the bough,” a book of statistics
that lie too deep for tears.
, •
The practised hand of Ambrose Pratt
makes Wolaroi’s Cup (N.S.W. Bookstall
Co.) . an excellent racing yarn —infinitely
better than the usual Nat Gould. Sodger
Sandy’s Bairn, in the same series, by Alex.
Bathgate, is a forceful narrative of the early
gold-diggings of Otago, mixed with the usual
love interest and a considerable amount
of Scotch.
For the Term of His Natural Life, Marcus
Clarke’s famous book, is now obtainable in a
large-type shilling edition. The publishers,
Ward Lock, Melb., have made arrangements
with i\lrs. Marcus Clarke, to whom royalties
are paid under the provisions of the new
Copyright Act of 1911.
Designed mainly to “place in the hands of
everyone interested a handy little volume,
which can readily be referred to when ques-
tions arise in connection with the consign-
ment, sale, or shipment of wool,” A Clip of
Wool from Shearing Shed to Ship, by Alex.
Sinclair (Wm. Brooks, Sydney), turns out
to be. for the layman, a fascinating volume
of information upon a highly interesting sub-
ject.-
The Reminiscences of Detective-Inspector
Christie, related by J. B. Castieau (George
Robertson, Melb.), are interesting. Christies
career was a varied and strenuous one; he
was successively a leading Victorian detec-
tive. a “shadow” to royal personages —a per-
sonage is a person whose job. is a bigger
thing than himself —a champion oarsman
and boxer of Victoria, and a detective-in-
spector of Customs during a specially inter-
esting period. The volume fills its place in
this firm’s useful “Told-by-the-Pioneers
series.


JL
w ace
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for ANSONIA CLOCKS
i/ 7 ?
Mm
s «v>
■%> y.
-*.
The King Ansoilia, Black Wal-
nut Eight-Day Clock, Half-hour
Strike, Cathedral Gong. Height,
24in. ; Dial, 6in. With Alarm, 20/-
Without Alarm 18/<i
The Windsor Ansonia, Black
Walnut Eight-Day Clock, Silvered
Cupids, Plate Glass Mirrors, Half-
hour Strike, Cathedral Gong. Height,
21Jin. ; Dial, sin 23/-
mm
S 5
s
S 3
#
M
\
l\
Octagon Drop, Rosewood,
Gilt, Eight-Day, Half-hour Strike.
Height, 21 in. ; Dial, lOin. .. 21/-
VJL7
m
The Venice Ansonia, Eight-Day Iro " lo^.’. H f
Strike, Cathedral Gong. Height, ; Width, lGiin, Dial,
fiiin. With Visible Escapement *>&/-
The Vienna Ansonia, Black Enamelled Iron
Clock, Eight-Day time, Half-hour Strike, Cathedral
Gong, sin. Dial. Height, 10£in. ; Width, 15iin. 31/,-
The Norte Ansonia, Marble Clock,
Eight-Day time, Half-hour Strike, Cathe-
dral Gong. Dial, oin 75/-
V
tx
aUI
The Bright Ansonia, Fancy Gilt
Clock, One-Day Time. Height 6^in.;
Porcelain Dial, 2in.... 10/-
The Berlin Enamelled Iron
Ansonia Eight-Day Clock. Half-
hour Strike, Cathedral Gong. Height,
; Width, ; Dial, sin. 24/-
The Dover Ansonia, Enamelled
Iron Eight-Day Clock; Half-hour
Strike; Cathedral Gong. Height,
lOiin. ; Width, 91in.; Dial sjin.
ANSONIA CLOCKS set a
standard of accuracy the
world over.
Only the best material and
the highest skilled labor are
employed, and the finish of
every clock is faultless.
The Assortment of Marble,
Bronze, Wood, Nickel and
Enamelled Iron Ansonia
Clocks offered at the New
Palace Emporium is greater
than that shown at any other
Establishment. Write for
illustrated Price List, post
free on application.
u
wmmm.
The Elf Ansonia, Gilt Clock,
Eight-Day Time, Height, 7 Jin.,
2in. Dial 20/-
AVe are Family Drapers,
Manufacturing Jewellers,
Complete House Furnishers
and Universal Providers, and
our immense stock of the
World’s Choicest Commodi-
ties offers attractions not to
be found elsewhere. Con-
sult our Illustrated Depart-
mental Price Lists, and reap
the full measure of economy
only to he found in
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LO\\ T PRICES.
The Heaver Ansonia, Black Walnut
Eight-Day Clock, Half-hour Strike, Cathe-
dral Gong. Height, 22Jin.; dial, 6in.
12/0
The Brook Ansonia, Fancy
Gilt Clock, One-Day Time. Height,
sfin.; 2in. Porcelain Dial, 10/-
The Unique Ansonia, Black
Enamelled Iron Clock, Eight-Day
Time, Half-hour Strike, Cathedral
Gong, sin. Dial. Height, lOJin.;
Width, 24/-
sUJs
The Barco Eight-Day
Ansonia, Marble Clock, Half-
hour Strike. Height, 121 in.;
Width, 9in.; Dial, 5in.,. 42/-
tLki
The Andes Ansonia, Black Walnut
Eight-Day Clock, Half-hour Strike.
Height, 22in.; Dial, 6in 11/6
The Parisian Ansonia,
Black Walnut, Eight-Day Clock,
Half-hour Cathedral Gong Strike.
Height, 23in.; Dial, 6in. 18/-
4,
The Triumph Ansonia, Black Wal-
nut, Plate Glass Mirrors, Silver Cupids,
Eight-Day, Half-Hour Strike, Cathedral
Gong. Height, 24Jin. ; Dial, 6in. 27/-
! V V '
i & II
42
40
'•<7 O .11
I'S?. ! '■'
The Choyin, Eight-Day Marble Clock, Half-Hour Strike, Cathedral Gong. Height,
•Jin.; Width, 15Jin.; Dial, sin 50/«
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
BricKneld Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W,


WINCHESTER
.22 Caliber Cartridges
Different makes of cartridges look very
much alike but you don’t buy cart-
ridges for looks. What you want is
efficiency. That’s why you should
buy Winchester Cartridges. Win-
chester .22 Caliber Cartridges, either
black, “Lesmok” or smokeless pow-
der, are loaded by automatic machin-
ery. This insures uniform charges of
powder and properly seated bullets,
which are essential for accurate shoot-
ing. Winchester smokeless cartridges
are loaded with Greaseless bullets,
which are clean to handle and
prevent loss of powder strength.
It is easy to be a penny wise and
a pound foolish in buying cartridges.
Buy The W Brand And You y
Will Get The Kind You Want .
Trade Mark
tai
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
INCORPORATED 1888 BY SPECIAL ACT OF PARLIAMENT.
The Permanent Trustee Company
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LTD. 17 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
TRUSTEES, ADMINISTRATORS, ATTORNEYS, AGENTS, Etc.
Trustee and Administrative Work of Every Description.
Estates and Properties Managed. Rents and Funds Collected.
Full Details on Application. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
SPECIAL NOTICE,
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
ARE PREPARED TO PURCHASE ORES, CONCENTRATES AND
FURNACE PRODUCTS containing Gold and Copper at most favor-
able rates.
ALSO TO INSPECT MINING PROPERTIES with a view to Develop-
ing, Financing, or Purchasing same.
Address : MR. B. MAGNUS, General Manager, MOUNT MORGAN, QUEENSLAND.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
99
Underwear.
Once you have worn Jason
Underwear you will never go back to the old kind.
THE beautiful all Australasian-wool fabric of
* Jason, with its silky softness, makes it ideal
wear for all seasons. It is the most comfortable and
the most healthy—keeping the body at an even tem-
perature in extremes of weather. And Jason is guar-
anteed absolutely unshrinkable—any garment that
shrinks will be replaced free of all cost. Jason costs
no more than you usually pay : in fact the higher
grade garments are much more economical than
any other make.
Jason Underwear is made in all styles and
prices for men, ladies, and children. Infants'
Pure White Wear in light and medium weights.
Jason Jerseys for children wear splendidly.
If your dealer does not stock Jason insist
upon his getting it for you.
In case of difficulty, write —
Jason Underwear Co., Leicester, England.
Aa43
s
/
7
9
Watermans
(Ideal)
FouiitairiPen
EFFICIENCY.
Commences writ-
ing at once, no
shaking required. Patent Spoon-feed ensures
steady, sufficient and controlled flow of ink
from barrel to pen-point. Iridium-tipped
gold nibs to suit all hands—choice as varied
as that offered by steel pen manufacturers.
SIMPLICITY
Only five parts in
Waterman’s Ideal
—Barrel, Spoon-feed, Point section, Nib
and Cap. Each part simple, efficient, and
essential : together forming a simple,
efficient and essential Fountain Pen,
AN IDEAL GIFT.
In 4 types -Reju'sr and Self-Filling,
1 2/d and upwerdi; Safety and
Pump - Fi.ling, 1 5/- and upwards
Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, LTD.,
Koh-i-noor House, London, England.
(AUSTRALIA —350, George St, Sydney.)
n
EM
m
n
]Af
r
b
ENGLAND’S BEAUTY ACTRESS.
MISS AMY WILLARD,
ENGLAND’S
FAMOUS BEAUTY ACTRESS,
Writes
of the
Accepted
Nerve
Medicine
CLEMENTS TONIC
Miss Amy Willard, who starred in Australia under the Willoughby manage-
ment in \\ hat Happened to Jones” and other popular plavs, is recognised as one
oi the prettiest actresses upon the. English stage. Her opinion of Clements Tonic
is of importance to the profession, especially to those members new to the
Australian climate.
CLEMENTS TONIC, LTD.
“The Australian climate affected me so that I suffered from weakness
and general ill-health.
“A leading member of the Australian stage told me to take Clements
Tonic. The result was sound, refreshing sleep and sounder nerve.
“To anaemic and weak-nerved women, in my opinion, based on
personal experience, this is a splendid medicine ”
If taken in time and consistently, this Medicine makes Loss of Sleep and Rest,
Sick Headache, Poor Appetite, Weakness, Biliousness and Constipation things ot
the past.
ALL CHEMISTS and STORES SELL IT.


DON’T NEGLECT
YOUR HAIR
Your looks demand that you
should take care of it, make
it more beautiful, more lus-
trous, softer ; you can easily
and readily do so by using
ROWLAND’S
MACASSAR
OIL
which nourishes, strengthens,
nurtures, and promotes the
growth of Fine Silky Hair;
you will notice an improve-
ment from the first time you
use it. Use it for your own
and your Children’s Hair;
Golden Colour for Fair Hair.
Sold in three sizes by Stores,
Chemists, and Rowland’s,
67, Hatton Garden, London.
Avoid cheap imitations under
the same or similar name.
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS
Packed Free. Carriage Paid direct from
our Factory to your Port. Ten Days' Fret
Trial . Best British made MEAD
Coventry Flyers
Defiance Puncture-Resisting or Dunlop
Tyres, Coasters, Variable-Speed Goars;
B.S. A. Free Wheels, Flyer or Brook’s
[Saddles, etc.
I LATEST
MODELS
£3mlO to £9
Tyres and accessories at half usual prices.
Write at once, using sufficient postage, foi
Free Art Catalogue and Special
Offer on sample machine.
Agents wanted.
MEAD
1,1
CYCLE COMPANY,
Dept. A 282 LIVERPOOL.
AGENT for MEAD CYCLES-
VAL. D. COLE, Book Arcade, Melbourne.
LARGE STOCKS ON HAND. ALL MODELS
HIMROD'S
ASTHMA POWDER
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
No matter what your Respiratory
Organs may be suffering from—
whether Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough —you will
find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
ELEY
CARTRIDGES
essential
good sport.
Good cartridges ma
lot always suffice
nsure good sport, but
good sport is out of the
question without them.
ELEY Cartridges do all that the best
cartridges can do in this direction, with a
trustworthiness which has won for them
a measure of success greater probably
than any other cartridges in the world.
Two 'Elty Loaded.' Cartridges:
Elcy ‘Acme*
A bright orangeg-inch
deep-shell Cartridge
loaded with Eley
(4a-gr.) Smokeless.
Elcy ‘Elold’
A light maroon Cartridge.
Loaded withEley(33 gr.)
Smokeless. Light recoil;
absolutely waterproof.
The above, and other Eley
Specialities, may be ob-
tained from all Gunmakers
and A mmunition Dealers.
E ley Bro»„Ld„ London
Ensr.
1
I
M
PAGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman u\
city or country should miss.
BONNINGFON’S WILL ANSWER YES
to the question—is it the best ? Yes it is undoubtedly the
best Cough Remedy tlidt skill and purest ingredients can
produce. This preparation has been curing Coughs
and Colds for upwards of 45 years, and although numer-
ous imitations have appeared from time to time none
have stood against “Bonnington’s*' of 40 years fame.
BONNINCTQN’S
Irish Moss.
The ideal family medicine is equally
beneficial for Adults or Children.
Mothers can give it to the little ones
with every confidence as it is entirely
free from harmful narcotics.
MOSS
IRISH...
'S l*+ l U\
|i|:
Sold Everywhere.
1/6 2/6
Do not take imitations —just ask for “BONNINGTON’S” and
see that you get it.
«5
Ml* 6 ?.
rtos2>
IUIS»
RUNKENNESS Cured.
Any lady can cure the most violent drunkard—secretly—at home. GOLDEN
SPECIFIC has no odor or tns'e. and can be taken by the most delicate person
of either sex. It total'y ei ad cates all craving for stimulants, creating a last-
ing antipathy to alcohol in a few weeks. Many cases are cured in a few days
with this treatment. . . Send 2d. stamp for FREE SAMPLE and full particulars.
THE GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO., DEPT. 4, MARKET STREET, SYDNEY, N. S.W.
THIS BOOK WILL INTRODUCE YOU
TO SCORES OF PEOPLE WHOM /
HAVE CURED PERMANENTLY OF
VARICOSE VEINS!
IF YOU suffer from Varicose Veins or Ulcers, or both, I believe that
I can completely cure you. I have treated hundreds of terrible
cases with the utmost success, and I know that but very few cases
are really incurable. Very few doctors tell you they can cure this trouble.
They prefer to ignore it. Doctors could not cure me. I cured myself.
I then cured my friends, and then made hundreds of new friends by
curing people who had suffered in some cases for a quarter of a cen
tury. Hence I believe I can cure you. It will pay you well to fully
investigate my method.
My treatment is applied at your own home, does not require you to
lay up, and is painless and harmless. The worst eases usually respond
inside the first few weeks, and old, stubborn cases are perfectly
cured under a suitable course of treatment. Give me full details of
your case. If T can cure you I will say so. and send you a guarantee. If I cannot, I will at once
advise you. You run no risk. You can lose nothing if I should fail; but I have built up a large
business —not. on failures, but on successes, in cases formerly given up as hopeless. LET ME SEND
YOU SCORES OF GRATEFUL TESTIMONIALS. WE GET DOZENS OF LETTERS LIKE THE
FOLLOWING
.... Wimmera St., Stawell, Vic., May 5. 1913.
Manager Vecsey Varix-arium,
Dear Sirs, —Am sorry I have not been more punctual in my correspondence,
but Ido not need any more treatment. The ulcers are entirely healed, and the
veins are now normal, and totally free from aches or pain, and I can get about
again, for which I am very happy. I hare told numbers of people of your
splendid treatment, and it certainly justifies the claims you make for it).
When I began your treatment I was dreadfully crippled, and almost wholly
incapacitated, and I shall never fail to recommend the Vecsey Method whenever
I get an opportunity.—Yours gratefully, James Williams.
FREE BOOK. FREE DIAGNOSIS.
FREE ADVICE
I want you to learn all about my method. Send 2d. stamp for Free Book giving full particulars.
You simply cannot, doubt the evidence I will give you as to the possibility of a cure. Written
Diagnosis FREE. Send to-day for this splendid book. (1832)
THE VECSEY VARIX-ARIUM, 3103 Ash St., SYDNEY
FREE f 0«
THE CAN-MAKING INDUSTRY!
SANITARY—SIMPLE
EFFECTIVE—RAPID.
The Entire Top Open.
xmt
p NTERPRISING PRESERVE OANNERS in every part of the world
‘ —' have come to realise that the old, slow, unsanitary method of
manufacturing and sealing cans by hand with poisonous solders is ob-
solete.
That is why the MAX AMS SANITARY CANNING MACHINERY
is being used by the world’s leading canners. If you are using cans
lor packing preserves, fruits, vegetables, or in fact any food product, the
SANITARY, SOLDERLESS, HERMETICALLY SEALED CANS
made by these machines will save you time, money and labor.
No. 58 and No. 68 Automatic Double Seamers will seal can tops on
bodies ljin. high and 2in. in diameter up to 1 gallon and over. The
scope in the range of possible changes is instantly appreciated.
No adjusting or fussing, or mechanical skill required. Can be run
by boy or girl.
These machines are BY NO MEANS confined to any PARTICULAR
CLASS of cans. The operation of these Seamers is SIMPLE. The
cans are automatically conveyed to the baseplate with the cover, and
INSTANTLY the CAN engages the rollers, making a CLEAN and tight
DOUBLE SEAM.
We Furnish Complete Outfit for Making These Cans.
For full particulars write to the
MAX AMS MACHINE CO.
MT. VERNON, NEW YORK, IJ.S.A.
OR THROUGH ANY EXPORT COMMISSION HOUSE.
Tobacco
Kills!
MOST MEN would
cure themselves of
the Tobacco Habit if
they knew they could
do so easily and also
without causing
themselves discom-
fort. ... It takes but
ten minutes for To-
bacco to change the
beats of the heart.
To keep it up is to
tempt death by heart
disease, nervous col-
lapse, tobacco cancer
and stomach, liver or
kidney disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harm-
less, vegetable remedy that will make the
user of tobacco in any form absolutely aban-
don the habit for jrood. It not destroys the
craving:, the desire, the appetite for tobacco,
but restores to health the entire nervous sys-
tem, and aids Nature in entirely eliminating:
from the system the Nicotine Poison of
Tobacco.
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you, under
sealed cover, a Free Sample also our Book-
let, “ The Tobacco Habit and its Consequen-
ces.” Write for particulars and Book to-day.
H. SINCLAIR <Xb CO..
Dept. G,
107 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY. [4.
THE Australian Magazine. THE LONE
HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance tliat is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Nevermind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of tlie Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Csn you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE. COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men. women & children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FIEE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collina-st., Melbourne, Vic.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
In us© since 1595.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak S'ght
Ask your Chemist for Its history—the book is free—or writ®
G. G-lEEN, 210, Lamoeth Road, London, Eng,
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Rectification.
Not always now—within his times —
The true man’s worth is weighed,
But what of that? His flame shall soar
When lesser glories fade.
I know a House not built of stone,
Nor yet of airy dream,
Six portals front the sunlit seas,
The stars upon it gleam.
Not yet complete—its turrets rise,
Star-seeking, year by year;
Pray God its walls shall stand the shock
When foemen draw a-near!
I know who laid its basic stones,
r Who drew its vast design,
Who gave it shape and massiveness,
And curve and gracious line.
Yet. some were paid in fuller meed
Than Justice would allot;
And some who toiled by day and night
Are known and mentioned not.
The flaunted name, the roselit pose
Have ta’en the times in thrall;
For them a witless age designs
A wreath and pedestal.
A wreath, a pedestal, a place
Above the nameless horde!
O witless Age, O fickle Age,
Not yours the true award!
The Court shall sit when we are dust.
And try each name anew;
The Future on the Judgment seat
Shall render each his due.
What each has earned he shall be paid
In righteous years anon;
And some shall find conspicuous peaks,
And some oblivion.
And some who wrought to build the House,
Wherein we breathe and move,
Shall win a nation’s high esteem,
And find a people’s love.
N.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.
Way-Worn.
Give me to sleep, O mother Night,
For I am weary of the day,
The broken idols of delight,
The little gods with feet of clay.
Give me to sleep, O mother Night,
For I am weary of the day !
O mother Night, give me to sleep,
Nor vex my sleep with any dream ;
Beyond the blackness soft and deep
The false, alluring waters gleam.
O mother Night, give me to sleep,
Nor vex my sleep with any dream !
The children toiled, a merry band,
And then there came a wind at play
And found their cities on the sand
And flung them to the far-away.
The children toiled, a merry band,
And then.... there came a wind at play.
The roses and the rue are dust,
On winds of all the yesterdays;
The sword is bitten through with rust,
There’s blood upon the trampled bays.
The roses and the rue are dust
On winds of all the yesterdays.
I have no common boon to crave !
There is no boon that I would take
With tyrant or with driven slaves,
With those that build or those that brer,'
I have no common boon to crave,
There is no boon that I would take.
But give me sleep, O mother Night,
And I am richer far than they
Who follow phantoms of delight.
Or win the wreath of tattered bay.
Yea, give me sleep, O mother Night,
And I am richer far than they!
victoria.
MARIE E. J. PITT.
The Saving Tuft.
On burning India’s torrid strand
The Lalas live —a goodly caste
Whose pious works on every hand
Endear them all to first and last;
Ye know them by the badge they bear,
A single tuft of rope-like hair.
And when the Lala leaves this earth
And makes for Gates of Pearl and Gold,
The god who guardeth him from birth
The duty hath of taking hold
And hauling him in half a trice
Across the bridge to Paradise.
Alas, how vain are human schemes!
Our mightiest fabric is but frail,
Our finest plans dissolve in dreams,
Our deepest craft will often fail;
And so the Gala’s tuft of hair
Is oft the Lala’s deadly snare;
For fiends there be who watch and wait
Beside the bridge the soul must cross
Before it reach the Heavenly Gate
Beyond the deep, dividing fosse ;
And when the Lala lifts his head
A fiend will grip the tuft, instead,
Of him whom earthly sacrifice
And pious life had daily pleased ;
And straight away from Paradise
Will tear the saint whom he hath seized
And bear him off and thrust him far
Where evil men in torment are.
And so it is in Life to-day:
We coddle up our little soul
And keep it in the narrow way
And head it for the shining goal;
To find at last, when all is told.
Our Saving Tuft the Demons-hold !
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.


A BIG BARGAIN
in a Beautiful Bedroom Suite.
The “CARLTON” is superior in every sense of the word l . It is up-to-date
and its style is unique. The wood is thoroughly seasoned.
Price—
£l2/15/-
It consists of:— 3ft. 6in. Wardrobe, with Bevelled Mirror and Large Drawer
1 Duchess Dressing Table, 2 Drawers, Bevelled Mirror and Castors.
I \\ ashstand, Marble Tiled Rack, Towel Rail and Castors, and
full-width Clipboard.
Highly Polished in Walnut, Rosewood, or Morris Green.
We submit ESTIMATES at Lowest Prices for FURNISHING Houses, Hotels
Theatres, Offices, etc., at Shortest Notice.
Marcus Clark 8 Co. Ltd.
Railway Square,
George Street,
Sydney
I
Ti
i*
f#
A
f
SI
B
*1
LAGER
Possesses distinctive qualities—it
is a delightfully refreshing, in-
vigorating and nourishing Lager
—valuable as a food for Nursing
Mothers, Invalids, etc apart from
its high-grade merit as a light
beverage.
OBTAINABLE at all FIRST-CLASS
CLUBS, HOTELS, RESTAURANTS,
etc.
QjvW-
Mm
w
r
/
JtllH
11 rH
3HI
/
Grand
Dralle
Hamburg.
ILLUSION
PERFUMES
in the Lighthouse*
Floral Essences without Alcohol.
AN IDEAL PRESENT
The smallest drop will produce the Sweet, Natural Scent of the Flower.
VIOLET . . 5/6 VIOLET, LILY OF THE VALLEY, ROSE, LILAC, HELIOTROPE, TREFOIL,
All Others. . 4/6 carnation, new mown hay, jasmine, wistaria, mignonette.
Insist on DRALLE’S ILLUSION.
The Original and Model of all Perfumes without Alcohol.
Sole Wholesale Agent: H, KUYATT, 28 O'Connell Street, Sydney*
Wear
! ti
t±ON
Au Sh
PLAY YHOLS—Rubber-vSoled
FOR. YOUR HOLIDAYS.
FOR ALL
GAMES
AND
PASTIMES
SOLD BY ALL LEADING
SHOE STORES.
Men’s, 6/3; Boys’, 59 ; Women’s, 5/6. Postage 9d. pair extra,
If your shoeist doesn't stock “Marathon,” send your order direct to the manufacturers ■
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD. 270 5^l e Y st
Also at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
'SS
1/
SOON
FINISHED
Your time is valuable so is your energy, clo
not waste either especially when there is no need
to, save both and do your polishing with Shi-
Noleum,
Shi-Noleum gives a bright lasting surface
to Linoleums, Wood Floors and Furniture—it
is easy to use and preserves in a wonderful way.
Beware of Imitations
ms
"sr:
WHITAKER
REVOLVING STEAM SHOVEL
Essential for Railway Construction, Excavating,
Removing Overburden on Mines, Handling
Tailings for Retreatment, Brickworks, etc.
Several of these machines are working in Australia and
giving entire satisfaction.
Write to us and we will send you full particulars.
We handle all classes of lifting and excavating machinery,
and carry a full stock of Engineers' Machine Tools.
BENSON BROTHERS LTD.,
51-53 Druitt Street,
SYDNEY.
60 Queen Street,
MELBOURNE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 34.—N0 1766.
THURSDAY. DECEMBER 18, 1913.
Price 6d.
HOLMAN IN A NEW ACT.
Mr. Holman is to take charge of the Treasury .—Press item.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.’’
Printed and published by William Mac-
leod, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets,
Mosman, for The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214
George Street, Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: City 2389.
City 2390.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum .. .. ..£l6O
Half-yearly .. .. .. 0 13 6
Quarterly . . . . . . . . 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings Sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some
care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable. acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the form
of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short
Tales or Sketches (those deeding with Australian sub-
jects, and not exceeding two columns in length, or,
say, SOOO words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of
MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
aritstic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can he obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Jjjl Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A. ; Childs
News Agency, comer Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; W. E. Lenehan, 585
29th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland. Tas-
mania and New Zealand; and on account of Messrs.
Atkinson and Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide—at
b/6 per doz. nett.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6| in.
x l\in., and gelatine transparencies will be for-
warded on application. Larger metal plates can be
supplied if desired.
Postage Rates.
Single copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper):—Throughout the Commonwealth, New Zea-
land, Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, 10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, 160 z., Id. Only one newspaper should be en-
closed in each packet — otherwise: Boz., Id., Bioz.
to 10oz., 2id.; lOoz. to 120 z., Sd.; elsewhere, boz.,
Id., and id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 18, 1913.
CONGESTION AND THE COST OF
LIVING.
In every big Australian city, and more par-
ticularly in Sydney and Melbourne, the wail
of the frequent victim of the increased cost
of living is to be heard. Royal Commissions
have been appointed to inquire into it;
party politicians have promised with vague
expansiveness that if they are returned to
power it will become a horror of the past;
the Laborites claim that it is all due to the
Trusts ; the Trusts allege that it is the result
of the wage-avarice of the toiling classes;
and meanwhile nothing is done and every-
one is dissatisfied. The would-be reformer’s
main difficulty, as is the case with so many
other abuses, is to unearth the basic cause
of the trouble. No doubt the Trust evil is
partially to blame. The Royal Commissioner
who was appointed by the N. S. Wales
Government to inquire into the local food-
supply question found that all sorts of
primary industries were affected by vends
and “gentlemen’s agreements,” to the finan-
cial detriment of the consumer. A millers’
combine, for example, artificially regulates
the price of bran, pollard and “shorts” in
N. S. Wales. The effect is to make the
running of dairy-farms, poultry-ranches and
the like more costly, with the result that
the public has to pay more than it should
for its milk, butter, poultry and eggs. New
combines of the sort are constantly being
formed in other industries; on the other
hand, old ones burst from time to time. The
indigenous Trusts, unlike the vast and all-
powerful American concerns, are mostly too
small for the present to do much public
damage. This accounts probably for the
fact that Government Statistician Knibbs
was able to show recently that the actual
necessaries of life (which, with rent and
luxuries, represent the essential factors on
which the cost of living depends) have gone
up in price only to a trifling extent from
year to year. Food and groceries which cost
50s. in 1903 in Sydney would, he showed,
cost 535. Id. in the third quarter of this
year, 1913; and in Melbourne, instead of
the increase being 6 per cent., as in Sydney,
it is only a trifle more than 3 per cent. Last
year foodstuffs were extremely dear; this
year, as a Sydney daily pointed out joyfully
a day or so back, the Christmas dinner is
going to be comparatively cheap. And so
the tide ebbs and flows.
* * * *
The luxuries factor is necessarily a diffi-
cult thing to dogmatise about. But some
features of it are obvious. In N. S. Wales
the Holman Government’s policy of lavish
borrowing; the continued good seasons; and
the arrival of the motor-car on a big scale
—an occurrence that for some mysterious
reason always causes temporary financial
recklessness in the country affected —have
all combined to produce an era of extrava-
gance. The same remark applies more or
less to the other States. People own
expensive limousines or touring cars or
both who, a decade ago, would have thought
twice before investing in a one-horse
brougham. Every other cottage home con-
tains its £4O piano. But Australia is boom-
ing at the moment. Presently will come
the inevitable slump, and the first items in
the increased cost of the national household
accounts to get it in the neck will be those
which come under the heading “Luxuries.”
This feature of the problem may, therefore,
if only because of its inherent transitoriness,
be dismissed as hardly worth analysis. There
remains the factor of rent, the offspring of
Congestion, and this is at the bottom of the
increased cost of living, everywhere, but
more especially in the big cities.
While the price of necessaries has moved
up from 5 to 8 per cent, in Sydney, official
figures show that the rent of four- to six-
roomed cottages has leaped from 30 to
40 per cent. And these figures apply in a
general way also to Melbourne. The Wages
Boards are unanimous on the point that the
necessity for those increased wages which
so madden the conservative employer is due
chiefly to the raised rents of the cottages—
owned in many cases by the maddened em-
ployer himself —in which the employee is
compelled to live or exist. The rent-increase
is not confined to the dwellings of the poor-
est class, though it is most noticeable, for
the reason that it is most exorbitant, there.
As a matter of fact, it is pretty
well universal. Shops, offices, factories, all
cost far more to inhabit than they did 10 or
even five years ago. The traders, profes-
sional men, etc., who occupy these places
naturally extract from the suffering public,
who deal with them, the extra sums which
they are called on to hand to the landlord
week by week. In the final upshot the
worker discovers to his despair that he is
little better off, in a material sense, than he
was before he achieved an increased wage;
while the wretched citizen who toils on a
fixed salary is infinitely worse off. The
public at large looks at its steadily swelling
bills in a stupefied way, and curses feebly.
But that, under the party system, is about
all the public ever does do, or is able to do.
In this paper’s opinion, the Australian
people, and especially the people of N. S.
Wales and Victoria, will continue to curse
in a futile manner just so long as
they are unable to induce their State
Governments, Labor or Liberal, to desist
from pandering to a handful of city land-
lords by deliberately bloating Sydney and
Melbourne at the expense of the potential
cities on the at present undeveloped harbors.
* # * *
The crowning and horrible example in the
way of city congestion is afforded, of course,
by Sydney. In existing circumstances
the whole of the wheat, wool, hides, carcases
and dairy produce of N. S. Wales —in brief,
every blessed thing that the eastern three-
fourths of the State grows or makes or digs
out of the earth —must come to Port Jack-
son for shipment. On its shores is a super-
fluous army numbering many thousands —the
workers and others who are engaged in hand-
ling these products, most of which should
never be seen within many miles of Sydney.
It is the presence of this army that is send-
ing up rents by leaps and bounds, and the
more Sydney is bloated by the introduction
of fresh workers (a matter merely of in-
creasing prosperity on the part of the State)
the more intolerable will grow the local rent
problem, and the more the cost of living
will bound up in consequence, not merely
as regards Sydney but as regards the whole
of the State. The insanity or the dishonesty
or both of successive N. S. Wales Adminis-
trations in this respect is almost incredible,
if only for the reason that the excuse for
the bloating of the harbor-side city is so
remarkably poor. It is bounded on the one
side by the sea and on all the others by at
least 100 miles of country in which practic-
ally nothing is produced—country which is to'
all intents and purposes, dead. There is
no sheep or cattle or wheat country
nearer to Sydney than Lithgow on the
Western line, or Goulburn on the Southern
line, or Newcastle on the Northern line.
Whoever in N. S. Wales has beasts or sheep
or wheat to sell has therefore to
pay, at the very least, for 100 miles of need-
less haulage. If Port Stephens were opened
no to the export trade, the producers of the
North would benefit incalculably, inasmuch
as they would save hundreds of thousands
annually in freight charges, while their pro-
perty would arrive at its destination in con-
siderably better order. And the same remark
applies to the dwellers on the hinterland of
Jervis Bay, Western Port and elsewhere.
* * * *
A trifling expenditure on the part of the
States concerned would bring about the
establishment of meal works on the shores of
several of their ports. Wool sales
would start at these places, just as they
have already begun in Tasmania —a possi-
bility that was scoffed at loudly a year or
so ago by folks who argued that, because
Tasmanian wool had been sold for many
years in Melbourne, it would necessarily be
sold there always. Practically all the
workers who are now employed in Sydney
and Melbourne in connection with the frozen
meat industry, many of those who are en-
gaged in the wool trade, and thousands of
others associated with the bulk handling of
goods would, with their wives and families,
shift to the newly-opened ports, and there
form the nucleus of fresh cities. The capi-
talist would stand to gain, inasmuch as he
would have less freight to pay; in fact, in
many cases he could drove his sheep or
cattle to, and personally deliver his wheat at
the port of departure—economies that are now
the wildest of impossibilities. The workers
in the new towns and cities would gain to
the extent of being able readily to acquire
good cottages at 50 per cent, less than they
are required at present to pay for bad ones.
The people whose businesses legitimately de-
mand that they shall reside in or near Syd-
ney would find that, owing to the easing up
°f the rent problem, they were once more
able to get shelter at a rational figure. The
artificially high prices charged at present by
those who, because of city congestion, are
obliged to pay absurdly high rents, would
automatically fall. A part, at least, of the
problem of the increased cost of living in
Australia would be solved. And the only
sufferers would be an insignificant coterie of
Sydney and Melbourne landlords whose woes
are not worth considering at the price.
THE JONAH OF BRITISH CAPITAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the mayor, and the equally small
Liberal politician, and the little Prime
Minister of the Joseph Cook size rave of
the necessity for the introduction of British
capital to Australia as part of the scheme of
making Australia for ever one with what
they call “the British Umpiah,” I am moved
to request that the British capital shall at
least be expended by Australians or by Eng-
lish of such long Australian experience that
they have ceased to be English, so that Aus-
tralian institutions and "Socialistic legis-
lation” shall not unjustly receive the blame
for the failure which is mostly inevitable.
As a rule, in these days, when British Capi-
tal sends to this country the Britisher with
swollen notions as an administrator, that
capital becomes as lost as the sound of a
great Amen. All the empty pretensions of
the Britisher puff him out to bursting ; yet
therein he merely follows the lunatic example
set by the average British flotation. The
overloaded proposition, ballooned with hot
air and water, is the material London sup-
plies for maladministration by the British
manager. One Australian mine, which had
not paid on the basis of £lO,OOO working
capital and £27,000 debentures, was bought
at the receiver’s sale for £l2OO and promptly
refloated in London for £300,000. The 20s.
stock was as promptly bucked to 325. 6d. —
and now stands at lOd. These lunatic pro-
positions gauge the value of a manager, not
by ability or experience, but by the size of
the salary he contrives to get by a very
courteous confidence trick —so polite that it
must come from either Oxford or Cam-
bridge. Sometimes in addition to salary the
fool-directors pay him a commission of 5 per
cent, on all the capital he spends, so that
the more expensive he makes railway-build-
ing, mills, furnaces and other reduction
works, and the higher wages he pays, the
more increment to himself. The fool-directors
never stop to consider that with these methods
it would pay a crooked manager to foment a
strike, and then raise wages to heal the
strike; to take railway works by devious
routes; to buy engines by the score and un-
necessary picks and shovels by the thousand,
and, generally, to throw away the good old
capital of the British Umpiah with both
hands and a tank scoop.
Where the commission is not directly paid,
the imported manager has been known to
take it direct from the supplier, so that on
some of these English mines, on a still day
with the wind in the right quarter, you may
hear the exhausts of unnecessarily-segregated
steam plants puffing “Comeeshun! Comee-
shun !” and shovels with the manager’s draw-
back on the invoice screeching “C’m’ish’n!”
as they scrape over the flat-sheets. In the
days of the imported managements was there
no commission on the millions pounds’ worth
of unnecessary plant now scrapped at Broken
Hill? And as their methods were so they
are.
It is a vital question to the Australian
mine or other concern which must go out-
side of Australia for its capital; and Aus-
tralia, like the U.S.A., despite its marvellous
internal development under High Protec-
tion, must continue to be a debtor nation;
the more so while Australia continues to
send out its gold to pay for manufactures
which it could make within itself, while it
continues to export raw wool only instead of
raw wool and some tweed, and wheat instead
of wheat and some flour, and zinc con-
centrates while importing spelter, and cop-
per ingots while importing manufactured
metal. A foreigner’s mining failure in Aus-
tralia is never charged to the foreigner, but
to the country that had to suffer him.
Maladministration; rigging and misuse of
working capital which, with Australian
shareholders, would probably lead a man to
the dock; plain perjuries in prospectus re-
ports ; hot air and water added to the propo-
sition to give the shadow of a reason for
the plunder; a stupid, overpaid and often
carelessly corrupt directorate, with a fat-
headed management to cap all —these are the
rewards the Australian mostly gets for find-
ing and developing a mine which his fool-
ishly small idea of himself makes him
believe is too big for anything but imported
capital. The imported capital, like the
camel, is necessary in Australia; the
imported management—management in the
hands of men of a country which never had
a metal mine worth speaking of- —is in almost
every case as unnecessary as the Afghan
camel driver.
The case of the Commonwealth Oil Cor-
poration is one of the most glaring instances
of stupidity and mismanagement; and nothing
worse is insinuated, although, as a million
and a half of money has disappeared hv
reason of it, nothing worse than stunidifv
and mismanagement can be imagined fi,;
American oil-engineers—who know more 7,1
oil-mining than any other people—been con
suited, they would have advised the expendi-
ture of £50,000 or so to prove by boring the
oil which is always assumed in the United
States to be below the oil shales. But
that wouldn’t do for the hot-air merchant,
of London, and boring with £50,000 doei
not provide a sufficiently large basis for a
Great Steal. So an unnecessary break-neck
railway drops off a plateau into a gorge and
ends in a cul-de-sac 2000 feet deep, and on
the wrong side of the mountain for cheat)
mining and for the winning of the best
shale; and in the same cul-de-sac another
half-million goes in plant—some proved
worthless and some now worth nothing
through idleness and exposure—and in a fine
smoke-stack which the eagle of the mountain
may build her nest in, though she may dis-
cover that her egg has dropped into a pit
as bottomless as the management provided
for the shareholders’ capital.
And the C.O.C. is only one. Australia is
dotted with them —furnaces that blew in only
to blow out; and mills of 80-head
which replaced 50-head that had crushed
a million tons, ,and shut down after
running a month on mullock from an
open cut, though there were and are
20.000 tons of lidwt. ore standing above the
200 ft. level and a mine virgin below 200 ft
Certain the 50 discarded stamps were com-
mon Australian stamps, and were sold for
scrap ; but they crushed ore for 40 years at
a profit, and the new 60 head ran on mullock
and left lldwt. ore to be submerged. As the
60-head mill is a good new mill, it cannot
be charged with shutting the mine down, so
the fault was with the imported manage-
ment. No wonder my Corsican guide at
Calvi called the abandoned Argentella mine
Caprice d'lnglesi— the madness of the Eng-
lish.
There is no excuse for these imported man-
agements. Australia has all minerals and some
world-beater examples of most of them—
Broken Hill, Bischoff, Mount Morgan, Mount
Lyell, Kalgoorlie. And from these unique
examples have grown experience and practice
which cannot be bettered. The glib Eng-
lishman copies the British trick of Kipling
in literature — Foster Fraser is a cheaper
exponent of it in his very low-grade journal-
ism :
He cleans his nails over Brisbane
And he sneezes three times at Perth,
And then lie goes home on the English mail
And lies of the big, wide earth.
A week in Johannesberg makes him an
authority on gold mining sufficiently high to
secure in London the job of making an ass
of himself on an Australian mine at vast
expense to his company ; and presumably 10
days at Kalgoorlie would get him a manage-
ment in Rhodesia. We have even had
prattlers in geology from Kensington who
knew the petrology of the Thames Embank-
ment from Chelsea to Blackfriars, but are so
madly optimistic, or so ignorant of arithme-
tic, that in a shaft 4ft. wide and 25ft. deep
they can find the outcropping of a lode 14ft.
wide. Marvellous is the Englisher and his
fat and cunning head. More marvellous
indeed the simple Englishers who trust him.
But the Australian is very simple, too.
In the middle of this year an Australian min-
ing co. was formed. It had a working capital
of less than £20,000, and at the behest of
certain alleged underwriters in London (who
afterwards got so far under that their writ-
ing became as invisible as their money, thus
throwing the allegedly underwritten shares
back on the Australian syndicate) it
appointed a very young and inexperienced
but quite courteous and softly-spoken gentle-
man as manager at £2OOO per year—or more
than 10 per cent, of the total working capital.
The English youth came to Australia, and
went very softly to the mine, and worked
there so softly that not a ton of ore was
shifted during his term of 12 months, though
there was plenty of ore forthcoming, dress-
able to over 50 per cent, copper, to eke out
the working capital. A small rock-drill
plant stayed at the railhead for nine months
—though the comparative unreliability of the
labor available on the mine made it impera-
tive to treat that compressor plant as freight
to be rushed.
And some day an Australian manager will
find something peculiarly English in the wild
hills behind Cloncurry. A mine couldn’t ship
ore because it couldn’t get transport; but.
its English management could find transport
for manv drayloads of organic earth from
“antbeds”—the said antbed being just the
thing for making a tennis court! _
How much longer are we to take seriously
in Australia the stupidest representatives or
the people whose best brains cannot control
a hundred or two of squealing suffragettes.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Folly of Local Option.
The expensive folly of local option was made
clear by the result of the poll taken in N. •
Wales a week ago. On the figures counte
at time of writing, reduction has been
carried in about 16 electorates, mostly in
the outer suburbs of Sydney. In the c
reduction has been carried nowhere,
upshot will be, as it has always been, me y
to inconvenience a few people. It will
reduce the consumption of drink in
slightest. Residents in the neighborhood oi
the hotels to be closed will get their supplies
elsewhere; boarders will move on; the 00
who sits in the corner and mops up P 1
every night will find another corner tur
down the street and continue to mop up
the old enthusiasm ; the citizen who, return
ing home in the evening, was accustom • ,
take his sherry and bitters at the quiet i
pub in his own suburb, will turn into a i
hotel instead, and meet half a dozen fri ,’
and have half a dozen drinks he do
want, and miss his boat or train and a
home at 8 p.m. to find an embittered
with a spoiled dinner on her hands. » ’
it will please the Dry Sheep, whose
nounced policy is not to prevent dm *
but to down the publican. In Mo®? ’
where there are two well-conducted no •
“reduction” has been carried; in Darims
Harbor, where there are 87 more or ~
superfluous drinking “joints,” “continuan


has been decided upon. In Ashfield, where
there are five hotels, widely scattered the
reduction foolery will lop off one or two - in
Beimore, with about the same population,
the 89 pubs will jostle each other’s back
yards as usual. On every occasion the
result of the reduction issue is the same
The deep-thinking S. M. Herald advances
the theory that if reduction is carried on
long enough there will be no hotels left, and
after complaining that the operation does
not take place where it is really needed, says
there is no escape from the “ridiculous de-
velopment.” Well, since 1907 Victoria’s
Licenses’ Reduction Board has closed just
about twice as many public houses as have
been closed in N. S. Wales under local
option.. And the job has been done with
discrimination. By far the greater portion
of the Board’s closing work has been done in
districts where a large excess existed. To
the end of 1912 (and the policy is still
being maintained) the hotels put out of
business were situated as follows:
In districts more than 2 to 1 overstocked. . 468
In districts less than 2 to 1 overstocked.. 146
Total . . .. . . . 614
In 1912, 23 pubs were rubbed out in the
metropolitan area, 29 in the urban dis-
tricts, and 50 in the countrv. Since the
Board got to work in 1907 40 per cent, of the
413 hotels reckoned to be in excess in the
city and suburbs have been delicensed, 44
per cent, of the 344 in the urban districts
and 48 per cent, of the 620 in the countrv.
The admirable results of the system
were testified to last March by A. J. Derrick,
who had then been secretary of the Central
Mission in Melbourne for about 20 years.
The Argus reported him as saying, at
one sitting of the Board :
In 20 years under local option no hotels in the
slums were closed. I doubt if we had local option
without compensation whether we could close any in
that quarter. The Board, by closing so many hotels
in this neighborhood [Gipps Ward], has done a great
deal of good and helped our work considerably.
It is true that Victoria intends to go back
to local option. The short-sighted theorists
clamored for it and the party politicians,
seeing Votes, yielded. But it is a retrograde
step. Next to State or municipal control
of the system, it is infinitely the most sen-
sible solution offered —infinitely more sen-
sible and vastly more reformative than local
option. And the fact that the S. M. Herald
has never heard of it doesn’t reduce its value
by tuppence.
♦
Round Pegs in Square Holes.
There is bitter irony in these few words
of recent Victorian news : “Mr. J. Lemmon,
Minister for Labor and Education.” Lem-
mon, representative of Williamstown, came
into Parliament charged with brains, zeal
and ambition ; he was the bright boy of the
Labor Party. He can compare with Watt
for tenacity of purpose, and compare well.
Besides being born to the political game,
Lemmon is a student, and he set himself to
make two subjects specially his own—educa-
tion (general and technical), and the organi-
sation of labor and employment, particularly
in apprenticeship. He was one of the first
politicians in Australia to see how closely
these two departments should be related in
a well-ordered State. He became a real,
blown-in-the-glass expert in both. Few of
the top-notch “educationists” in Victoria
can teach him much about the systematising
of education, and his work on the Apprentice-
ship Commission was masterly. It is at least
10 years since Victoria had a Minister of
Education who knew the rudiments of his
job, and for most of those 10 years Lemmon
has had knowledge which would make him a
real star Minister. And here he is, enjoying
the empty title for a few days, to be kicked
out for some dunderhead because the Party
System orders it. The Labor party has never
had a majority in Victoria. It looks as if
it won’t in the next 10 years, anyway. For
that reason the man who is the pick of Par-
liament for a department must stay out of
the job for 20 years. How putrid is party
administration !
The Awful North.
The Stewart lectures, delivered recently in
Melbourne by Dr. Breinl, Director of the
Australian Institute of Tropical Medicine at
Townsville, represent real, meaty stuff. In
the past the physical characteristics of the
Northern-born have been wrangled over by
dozens of doctors and hundreds of politi-
cians, with little more than prejudice and
casual observations on which to base all the
talk; and a wild lot of opinions have been
shouted into the ear of Australia as a re-
sult. Dr. Nisbet has described the North-
ern-born as hopeless weeds tainted from
birth by the fell climate, and has called his 25
years of Northern experience as proof that
he knows what he is talking about. On the
other hand, MacDonald, also with 25 and
more years of medical experience in the
North, maintains that the Northern-born
are equal in physique and intelligence to
any race in the world. It has remained
for Breinl to tackle the subject by exact
methods of systematic research. The chief
factors affecting a white race in the tropics
are those of climate, surroundings, and in-
fection by disease. Climate is a matter of
sunlight, heat and humidity; surroundings
include such things as housing, food and
drinking habits ; and infection depends on the
presence or absence of certain disease-pro-
ducing parasites which are apt to flourish in
any part of the tropics, if once introduced.
Until the recent development of tropical
medicine revealed the truth, most of the
more serious health-dangers of the tropics
were ascribed to climate; but nowadays tney
are known to be due to minute parasites
which can be readily dealt with by suitable
preventive measures. The summary fashion
in which the Americans rooted yellow fever
out of Havana and the Canal Zone, and the
way that malaria has been practically abo-
lished at Ivlang and Port Swettenhani. in
the Malay States, are instances of this. Such
diseases as ankylostomiasis (hookworm dis-
ease) and malaria are deadly influences on
young children. Even if they do not kill,
the child is often stunted, mentally and phy-
sically, Adults also degenerate under
their baneful influence. In these and similar
cases infection is not “bred” by local condi-
tions, but is spread from person to person.
The colored brother is the great reservoir of
infection for the white man, and to the
absence from Northern Australia of this
dusky relative of Brug? Smith, Breinl
ascribes the country’s freedom from tropical
disease of the more serious kinds. Climate
and surroundings are secondary factors, but
so much has been ascribed to them in the
past that they are receiving close attention.
The Americans in Manila have carried on
extensive investigations on the chemical rays
in tropical sunlight, and similar observations
have been made in Queensland. The results
show a somewhat higher reading for Queens-
land than for Manila, and indicate that
these rays have little or no effect on health
comfort. The most interesting part
of Breinl’s investigations dealt with the
blood and general body condition of over
250 Northern-born children, many of whom
were of the second or even third generation.
No appreciable difference was found between
the number of corpuscles in their blood and
in that of children born and living in tem-
perate climates. If anything, the advantage
was with the Northerners. The tendency
to sallowness of complexion which was once
regarded as a sign of “tropical anaemia”
has been shown by these investigations to
afford no indication whatever of any weak-
ness or poverty of blood. On the other hand,
Breinl displays as much enthusiasm as is
permitted to a cautious scientific man con-
cerning the numerous examples of exception-
ally robust and wholesome children who have
come_ under his notice; and so far from en-
tertaining any doubts about the possibilities
of Northern settlement, his investigations
thus, far lead him to regard the Territory as
offering a positively unique opportunity for
development by a healthy white race.
The Lady with the Dress Basket.
Last week a few more of Melbourne’s not-
wanted babies were accounted for through
the police digging up a “farm” at Mor-
dialloc, where Isabella Newman had sui-
cided. Two little corpses were found buried
in the fowl-house, and there is a large sus-
picion that others are concealed elsewhere
about the premises. The deceased woman,
by the way, showed little wisdom in planting
the infants. True, she kept no fowls; but
the next occupier of the property v was very
likely to do so, and the first thing a fowl
does is to scratch. But according to the
police theory she carried on business in such
a wholesale way that she had no time to
choose suitable sites for her infants’ resting-
places. She seems to have been in the habit
of leaving the “farm” almost daily, going in
the direction of Melbourne from Mordialloc
station, and always with a sizeable dress
basket. She had the basket also on her re-
turn, and if questioned as to its contents
always answered, “Groceries.” As the
Newmans were only four in family, the
fiolice theory is that the “groceries” were
argely newly-adopted babies, which she had
presumably smothered on the way home.
And Mrs. Newman wasn’t the only baby-
farmer in Melbourne. On the very day that
the police overhauled the cemetery in the
fowLhouse, someone left in a Prahran right-
of-way the body of a very young Australian
who had apparently reached his end through
starvation. Baby-farming is pre-eminently
an industry where the lack of means to do
good deeds makes ill deeds done. These in-
fants were each worth from £lO to £5O to
Mrs. Newman. Now, supposing the State
had sufficient sense and humanity to
establish and maintain a Foundling
Hospital and to advertise itself as
a “kind lady willing to adopt new
babies,” the position would be that the
parents would save the £lO or £5O now paid
for “adoption” ; the babies would save their
lives ; and the State would save the cost of
digging up fowl-houses, wear and tear of
police, maintenance of convicted baby-
farmers in gaol, and a lot of other items, be-
sides which it would gain a large number
of citizens in embryo. Certainly, if a Found-
ling Hospital were in existence the other
“kind lady willing to adopt” would disap-
pear utterly and finally. But that is hardly
a matter for keen regret. Also the trade in
dress-baskets might experience a slight Tem-
porary slump, but neither need that worry
anybody. Most babies are more interesting
than dress-baskets, and more valuable as
long as they are not planted in the fowl-
house.
«
The Gospel of Gloom.
Sharp Cry of Annoyance from “Henri
Singemoine” :
A conference said to be representative ef the
Sydney Anglican and Noncomformist churches de-
cided last week to start a crusade against the sale of
newspapers on Sunday and the opening of fruit and
sweet shops at Circular Quay, Manly Beach and
elsewhere on the same day of partial gloom; also,
the conference pledged itself to do away with street-
trading cries on the Sabbath, wipe out boxing con-
tests, and in general hit things up in the way of
utter mournfulness.
The matter is of interest to the type of citizen
who inquires, with an affectation of naif wonder,
“What is a Wowser ?” It will likewise serve as an
answer to the disingenuous variety of cleric who
says proudly, “If to be a Wowser is to be an enemy
of drunkenness ; if to be a Wewser is to be an as-
sailant ef the White Slave trade and impurity gener-
ally, then am I proud,” etc. To be a Wowser is, of
eourse, te be not merely an upholder of the ordinary
conventions of society, but also a hypocrite, con-
scious or otherwise, who seeks, mostly with the object
of personal gain of one sort or another, to drive people
to extremes in Puritanism. Most of the clerics at
last week’s conference are notoriously unable to
keep their churches sufficiently full to return a divi-
dend in those cases where the sacred fanes are ex-
posed to any sort of competition. The surfing resorts
represent competition. The Sunday papers represent
competition. So Wowserism lays itself out to render
the one enemy too comfortless for Sabbath habita-
tion, and to make the existence of the other an im-
possibility. It is not holiness half so much as it is
business.
The Wowser proves his quality by persuad-
ing himself, and half persuading the public, that
the sordid question of gain has nothing to do with
the affair, and that his whole concern is with the
nation’s soul. His claptrap would not matter so
much if it did not react so perniciously on the
comfort and prosperity of the community. It is the
votes of people influenced by these misguided pietists
—pietists who are now battling to prevent the Sun-
day vending of tea and lemonade at places like
Manly and Coogee—that keep Sydney’s theatres and
music-halls the comfortless places they are. In
other parts of the world such establishments are
given wine and spirit licenses. This system does not
provoke any more drunkenness than Sydney’s habit
of going out in the interval to buy a drink at the
nearest bar. What it does, though, is to enable
theatrical managers overseas to give their patrons
comforts that local managers will never be able to
afford so long as 'the present regime lasts. The
position represents quite a problem to a large class.
The theatres have got well behind the standard of
comfort that has been attained by the bulk of the
play-going community of the day. To the average
modern man, for example, three hours in the average
Sydney theatre, with its narrow and board-like seats,
its awful atmosphere, and its restrictions in regard
to tobacco and alcohol, represent a dose of purgatory.
The victim goes, for various reasons—mostly family
ones—but he goes under the whip, as it were. In
London, Paris and New York he goes resignedly,
even joyously, knowing that if his destination is a
music-hall he will have a wide and comfortable arm-
chair to sit in, and, if he feels that way, a drink at
his elbow and a cigar between his lips ; while if his
fate is a theatre, he will at least enjoy that spacious-
ness and luxury in the auditorium which are made
possible chiefly by the existence of lounge bars
attached to the playhouse.
The more ambitious restaurants have been going
insolvent, or closing up to avoid insolvency, in Syd-
ney of late years. The rise in the cost of living,
due chiefly to rings formed by those who deal in
locally-produced foodstuffs, has had something to do
with the calamity, no doubt. But the fact that 95
per cent, of them have no wine and spirit licenses
is a good deal more to blame. No restaurant can
live by the sale of first-rate food alone. The initial
cost of the provender comes too near to the maxi-
mum price which the diner is willing to pay for the
meal in its prepared state. The compulsory closing
of Sydney hotels and restaurants at It p.m. has two
detrimental effects on the fortunes of the establish-
ments concerned. In the first place it robs them of
an opportunity to do a trade which is highly profit-
able elsewhere, and could presumably be made so
m Australia; and in the second—a result of the
first handicap—it helps to make our best hotels the
comparatively cheerless and out-of-date places they
notoriously are. There is nothing inherently evil
about late feeding in public. Some of the most
estimable people in the world indulge in it habitu-
ally. It doesn’t cause folks, to become drunkards or
rakes. There is a steady supply of labor ready and
a hle to meet the demand, at the enhanced wages
which those who work by night are able to command.
But the Wowser—he who would close every soft-
drinks shop on the Sabbath—has laid it down that
late suppers are wicked, and that the drinking of
strong liquors, if it can’t be prevented at other
times, shall at any rate be barred in the early hours
of the morning.
It is this spirit which keeps Sydney provincial.
Despite its natural beauty, its glorious cli-
mate and its other assets it makes very
little appeal to those who have known the ways of
European cities, with the result that the capital of
foreign trippers—the most paying of national guests
-—is not captured in anything like the quantities it
should be The Wowser is largely to blame; and
when he has killed the Sunday papers, and made
the seaside resorts places where it is an offence
against the law to sell or buy a bottle of ginger-
ale, he will have been the cause of still further loss
to people who at present never dream of regarding
him as an enemy. If Sydney could only be brought
to realise the price it pays, directly as well as in-
directly, for its Wowser, it would probably kill that
blight upon the social landscape—kill it as dead as
Hannibal.
+. .
Tasmania’s Frilled Electoral System.
The Bill which Premier Solomon, of Tas-
mania, introduced with a view to the aboli-
tion of by-elections exposes another weakness
of the Hare system of balloting. The trouble
is that to fill an extraordinary vacancy in a
six-member constituency, six times as many
electors as elected the old member are dragged
into the trouble. For instance, at last general
election (January of this year) the late
Speaker Davies was elected one of the six
members for Denison by 2000 persons, mostly
personal friends; but the by-election to fill
his seat must be taken in a constitu-
ency containing some 15,000 active
voters. Even if Davies’s 2000 per-
sonal friends all voted for one can-
didate, and persuaded 4000 other electors to
vote for the same candidate, they would be
utterly swamped at the poll by the 9000
electors who would prefer another candidate.
Thus it might happen, and probably would
happen, that in a straight-out contest
between two candidates in a 15,000
district, a quite different sort of man
to Davies, and of a quite different
party color, would secure the seat.
Davies belonged to the Liberal party. In
Denison last January the Libs, polled some
500 more primary votes than the Laborites,
but each party secured three quotas, and
three seats. It is considered almost a cer-
tainty that in the wider constituency at a by-
election a Labor man will beat the best
Liberal candidate that is at present in sight.
This is because the Solomon party doesn’t
happen to have a man available who is well-
known enough to attract the necessary SOOO
votes required to win the seat, while Labor
happens to have a well-known ex-member,
Sheridan (who became an ex-member by a
sort of accident last January), ready to take
the field. If Sheridan wins the by-election
on January 10 next, the Solomon party will
have lost a seat, and parties in the Assembly
will be 15 all. That, of course, means a dead-
lock and an immediate general election. Un-
less the Labor vote has Increased to a phe-
nomenal extent during the past year in Deni-
son, which is not likely, the seat would be
regained by the Libs, at the general mix-up,
and Solomon would count 16 to Earle’s 14,
as at present. And if, as seems probable,
another Lib. seat in Denison becomes vacant
by reason of Elliott Lewis’s elevation to a
judgeship within a month or so, and Labor
has another win, Earle will have a clear
majority. But the majority thus gained would
almost assuredly vanish at the first general
election, and parties would be at the same
old 16 to 14 again, or, at best, 15 all. Under
the Hare system the only true test of party
strength is a general election, and seats won
by either party at by-eleetdons are not worth
powder and shot.
Australia’s Defence Obligations.
“The Old Soldier” : Defence- Minister
Millen said in the Australian Parliament
the other day :
I disagree with the action of the late Govern-
ment in having increased the permanent forces 100
per cent, beyond what Lord Kitchener recom-
mended. Lord Kitchener's report was in faVor of
a citizen force with a permanent force at a mini-
mum.
Whereupon the considerably more knowledg-
able ex-Defence Minister Pearce inter-
jected :
Will you deny that he recommended two reliefs
for the Permanent Artillery ?
Millen’s somewhat feeble response was
that the permanent force is in advance of
what Kitchener recommended; but he
refrained from mentioning the numbers that
the great man did recommend —chiefly be-
cause it was impossible to mention them.
The permanent forces include the A. and I.
staff, a number of all ranks belonging to
the medical, supply and transport services,
and, finally, the permanent artillery. As
Pearce told his unfortunate successor, it
was only the last-named that had its strength
definitely fixed by the Kitchener report,
and that was not a maximum, but an irre-
ducible minimum—two reliefs, two detach-
ments for every gun mounted, and two sets
of magazine men, storemen and artificers for
each battery. The actual number would
depend on the number of guns mounted, or
to be mounted. It would be at least 25
men per gun for each relief, or 50 for the
two reliefs. That is much below European
standards, which require three reliefs of
fortress artillerymen for every work. As
for the other permanent forces, it must be
evident that, as the total numbers of Mil-
len’s citizen forces grow by the natural
operation of the Act, the number of the
A. and I. staff will have to be increased;
so will the medical service, the transport
drivers and the men of all ranks in the
Army Service Corps. The Government of
the day will have no choice in the matter in
regard to every branch of the permanent
forces, except, perhaps, the artillery. The
numbers who are swept into the ranks
every year require more men in the A. and
I. staff to drill and “administer” them ; and
as there are complaints that the supply_ of
satisfactory drill-masters is already running
short, there is talk of importing them whole-
sale from Britain or India. But the British
army has no men of the desired stamp to
spare ; at any rate, it certainly hasn’t nearly
enough to handle 14 or 35 thousand fresh
trainees every year. The lesson of which is
that one of Australia’s most important and
instant jobs is to train a body of capable
regimental officers.
♦
The most satisfactory feature of the N.S.W.
elections lay in the fact that the buzzing of
the clerical insects had a totally different
effect from the one intended. Father
O’Reilly, of Bathurst, sooled the Catholic
Federation on to llolman, and spoke person-
ally in opposition to him in Cootamundra.
And Holman, with a strong local man in
the field against him, just about trebled his
previous majority. Miller, who, for the
last six years or more has represented
Bathurst, answered “Yes” to the Federa-
tion’s questions. His opponent maintained a
wary silence; and has, for (he first time, won
the seat for Labor. The defenders of the
Walls of Derry, heartened 4)y the uprising of
the Catholic Federation, hauled the Yellow
Pup out of his kennel in a hopeful
spirit, and directed him to flesh his
fangs in the legs of the Karthlick
enemy wherever found. The anachronistic
old animal was particularly active in Bel-
more, Phillip and Yass. And Romanists se-
cured these seats by 1000, 3500 and 1000-odd
votes respectively. The lesson appears to be
that the present generation declines to have
any flavoring of religion in its political meals.
It doesn’t much mind having to file its
schedule ultimately, but it draws the line
firmly at Sectarianism.
♦
Over 12 months ago the Queensland Parlia-
ment passed an Act dealing with shoddy
boots. It was declared illegal to “load”
leather soles with cardboard or other stuffing.
Davey (of Davey, llalliday and Co., boot
manufacturers) was father of that Bill; he
had had practical experience of the injury
done to the Australian boot industry by this
cardboard-stuffing. The law made it illegal
not only to manufacture such shoddy, but
also to stock it for sale. When the Act was
passed a howl went up from the retail boot
merchants. They fell on Denham’s neck
and begged for time —much time —in which
to work off stocks (and d —n the public!).
Denham’s ear was stretched to the extent
of granting a six months’ suspension. The
same old deputation stood on the doormat
when Digby opened his office six months
later. They wanted another extension, and
they got it. For the third time Digby’s ear
has lately been bitten for yet another exten-
sion. But on this occasion the deputation
was cheekier. It threw off all disguise and
openly demanded the repeal of the obnoxious
measure, which was alleged to be a “restraint
on trade” —trade in this connection being
clearly another name for robbery. Also, it
more than hinted that a good, hard-shell Tory
like Denham shouldn’t monkey with such
dangerous Socialistic legislation. And
Digby is promising to look into the matter.
Which goes to show that Digby Denham and
not the Parliament rules the State; because
obviously a law which has the breath of life
withheld from it is no law at all, even though
Parliament had passed it 20 times.
News is cabled that Frerjch pathologist Basc
has located the little devil that causes cancer :
it turns out to be a parasite germinated in
stagnant water, and capable of infecting
fish, insects and warm-blooded animals. The
medical people expected to find it in that
uuarter. having long noted that wherever
frogs abound cancer is rife, and, of course,
stagnant water is the breeding-place of the
frog. If Basc’s announcement is verified,
the long battle with a disease which is par-
ticularly rife in Australia enters upon an
altogether new and more satisfactory phase.
Hitherto the scientist has been struggling in
the dark to locate the enemy. Now, with
the brute in the eorner, he will no longer
grope—he will attack.
On with the Spree!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The result of the elections is a full vindication of our
whole course of conduct, our programme and our
administration. — Premier Holman.
The guttering candles were almost out;
The spilt wine dabbled the House of Grief,
When Dawn peeped in at the drunken rout
Through window blinds like a lurking
thief.
The wastrel host from a corner reeled
And roused with curses each drowsy guest.
“Come on, you blighters!” (His laughter
pealed)
‘There’s time enough in the grave to rest!”
“Here ! start the music and let’s have light!
With wine and laughter we’re not yet
done!
We had a jolly good time last night!
Get up and drink with me — everyone /”
They rose and drank, with their eyes half-
closed ;.
They clasped and danced with uncertain
feet.
And Bailiff Time on the mat reposed
And grimly smiled at the wond’ring street.
N.S.W.
REPRIEVE.


Politicians who obtain inspiration from
that royal spirit, King George IV. Whisky,
keep their wits always in top-notch fettle.
The top-notch brand steadies their heads—
and legs—in times of the most riotous dis-
order.*
Hotel Steyne,
Manly Beach, N.S.W.
Facing: the Pacific Ocean.
THE BRIGHTON OF AUSTRALIA*
SURF-BATHING RIGHT IN
FRONT OF THE HOTEL.
Excellent Golf Links in Close Proximity.
Hot Salt Water Baths Adjacent.
TERMS —From \\/6 Day;
3 Guineas Week.
810-SHOWMEN!
T HERE'S only one BEST Biograph. We can prove
1 it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE.” Send for Cata-
logue. Sole agents: Jerdan’s, Ltd., 393 George Street,
Sydney.
Missing Frien<ls.
A Federal Detective Agency.
j. CANTLON
(late Victorian Detective Police) rnder-
takes Commercial, Confidential, Next of Kin,
Missing Friend and Matrimonial Enquiries,
Searches. 1 Surveillance.
49 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne,
f'UMMINS, WILLIAM HENRY, died at Petersburg,
South Australia, on August 11, 1913. Wanted
address of John Cummins (son of John Chamney
Cummins), an infant grandson who is entitled in
even* of intestacy. SANDFORD & LIMBERT, Solici-
tors, 32 Waymouth Street, Adelaide, S.A.
REBECCA JANE SPROULE, daughter of James
Sproule, late Line Repairer, Glenorchy, Victoria,
will hear to her advantage by applying to WILLIAM
S. COOK, Solicitor, 60 Queen Street, Melbourne. Last
heard of care Mr. Jacobs, California Cafe, Hay
Street, Perth.
Tha Famous PICTURE BLOCK THEATRES
*
SYDNEY’S PICTURE
CENTRE.
COLONIAL TM
JuiCONTINUOUSHmj
IS
COLONIAL,.
a
£(WST
-
r
CRYSTAL PALACE.
4' ~
UHH&ll
oiixiWHignaoM ]
SOB
EMPRESS.
Famous the World over for their LUXURIOUS APPOINTMENTS.
SHOWING ONLY NEWEST 8 BEST PHOTO PLAYS.
.Popular Prices —3d. to •!/-
Continuous —11 a.m. to 11 P'
Barrington Miller, General Manago^^^^
The Greater J. D. Williams Amusement Co., Ltd.
W.
One ‘ effect of the N. S. Wales election
should be to kill for ever that gag about
“Liberal apathy” which has been trotted out
regularly for years to explain away Conser-
vative defeats, both in the State and
Federal arenas. The operation of the second
ballot established last Saturday that the
more apathetics who are dragged to the poll
the worse it is for Liberalism. In Enmore,
for example, 8954 voted at the first ballot.
Of these 129 were Independents, and there
was a majority for Liberalism of 89. At the
second ballot 9663 people went to the poll,
and Liberalism was defeated by 741. In
Hurstville 10,038 people voted at the first
as against 11,144 at the second ballot. While
the Liberal was adding 421 to his original
total, the Laborite increased his by 1105.
And the same tendency was manifested in
every other constituency to a greater or
lesser degree. There are apparently but
two ways in which Liberalism can possibly
hope to save itself in the future. One is
by concealing as far as possible from the
country that there is anything in the shape
of an election pending. The other is to get
hold of something that resembles a construc-
tive policy. About the one definite plank the
party had to offer during the recent struggle
was electoral reform: that is to say, it an-
nounced that its first move, if i - eturned to
power, would be to exterminate the system of
balloting which the Wade party itself intro-
duced four years ago. This sort of attitude
is no earthly good to a young and progressive
country. By coming out boldly for decen-
tralisation, the abolition of the State Gover-
nor, the wiping out of the Legislative Council
and a few more" equally necessary reforms,
the party would not only stand to gain a
number of radical-minded young people,
but it would, in addition, make certain of
shaking off the Conservative barnacles that
at present infest and hamper the battered old
Liberal hulk.
At last the Australian Government
is doing something in the matter of ’
aviation, tenders having been called for
the construction of hangars at Point
Cook, Altona Bay (Vic.). So, pre-
sumably, if the aviators don’t get too fat
doing nothing, or forget their art in the long-
time waiting, we shall have some flights in
about another year. Still, it is better than
nothing.
A Maoriland pressman’s view of it: —
Maoriland cockies are busy at present building
their own funeral pyre. Their folly is about equal
to that which has let Labor into the present smash,
and the consequences will be much worse ; for whereas
Labor will recover from its present roasting, Cocky’s
ashes will be swept away in a whirlwind of Union-
ism. The newly-formed cockies’ wharf union at
Auckland is turning down strikers desirous of join-
ing ; and, shut off from the wharves, these workers
are making out into the country. This leaven
of unionism will very soon result in a rural
workers’ union, which union will rise up and hit
Cocky under the ear.
Simon Fraser, late of the Federal Senate,
is still going strong in his 80th year or
thereabouts. Last week he gave a luncheon
party at the Australian Club (Melb.) by
wajr of farewell to Major-General Kirk-
patrick. Old Simon’s hospitality naturally
inclined to Jokook, Forrest and others of
the Fusion party; but he didn’t forget to
include the Labor President of the Senate
in the feed. As an ardent Orangeman the
veteran Fraser cultivates the regard of all
official figureheads outside of the R.C.
Church, whereas the profundity of his dis-
respect for the Pope is quite pathetic.
The Adelaide City Council solemnly
drank the health of Colonel Light last week,
using an old silver bowl presented for the
purpose in 1858. Light was the man who,
in face of the opposition claims of Port Lin-
coln, Kangaroo Island and other spots,
decided that Adelaide should be fixed just
where it is; and his statue stands by the
G.P.O. with a thumb turned down, as of one
saying “Let it be there." The veteran
Charles Goode, congratulating A. A. Simp-
son, the new mayor, remarked that it is
pleasant to see sons coming along to take
the part of their fathers. It is not a thing
one can often say in municipal matters, but
in Adelaide there is a fancy for going into
the City Council while young, and both the
new mayor and his predecessor, Lavington
Bonython, have fathers much better known
than themselves.
“Petrol”: The motor-launch blaze I pre-
dicted 12 months ago occurred last week.
By good luck it took place in that salubrious
estuary, Cook’s River (N.S.W.), where one
sinks with difficulty, owing to the soupiness
of the water. The launch contained 10
women and two men, and when the long-
expected match was struck there was no
difficulty about the rest of the programme.
In one minute the launch was on fire from
end to end. The passengers took the only
course possible by jumping into Cook’s River,
whence they were rescued the worse for
wear but unharmed. The accident might
well have happened in a place like the Haw-
kesbury, Port Hacking, Botany, or some
other deep-water resort, when the result
would have been appalling. Now that the
Ma Government has been given this hint, it
might do something about regulating motor-
launches and providing for the safety of the
public. The next hint it gets will be when
a dozen or more voters are fried or drowned.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Man and Superman.”
Heb Majesties. “Come Over Here.”
Palace “A Day at the Races.”
j “A Girl’s Temptation.”
Adelphi j “Aladdin” (24th).
Criteiuon “Officer 666.”
Little Theatre “The Warning.”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
National Amphitheatre Brennan-Fuller’s Vaudeville.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric I
Colonial V Continuous Pictures.
Impress J
Crystal Palace. ....... Continuous Pictures, etc.
Olympia. .. } West’s Pictures.
Glaciarium /
Imperial Moving Pictures.
White City Various Shows.
Eden Gardens, Manly. The Dandies.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Forty Thieves.”
Princess’s ‘‘Chicle Tom’s Cabin.”
King’s “The Land of Nod.”
Royal “Miss Elizabeth’s Prisoner.”
Majestic “The Chorus Lady.”
Opera House Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Esplanade, St. Kilda. . The Dandies.
Thanks to the happy idea of the Sydney
Repertory Society, and the support given
to it by the J.C.W. firm, Wilton Welch and
George Willoughby, Sydney had the chance
on Monday to see Miss Muriel Starr in a
play that gave her artistry a chance. Pinero’s
tragedy, “Mid-Channel,” was performed at a
crowded matinee at the Criterion by a cast
of exceptional strength, admirably handled
by the Repertory Society’s producer, Leslie
Casey. All the characters in this fine ex-
ample of the Pinero of the later period be-
long to that unique race of the London mid-
dle-class known as flat-dwellers. All of
them seem to do nothing except dwell in
flats, call on each other in flats, and have
afternoon-tea and assignations and alterca-
tions and nerves and flirtations and suicides
in flats. None of them have children, unless
a grown-up girl is counted, and all of them
have too much time to think or moon or
smoke or drink. Yet this tragedy of middle-
class flat-dwellers is a real tragedy—a clash of
temperaments, due in the first instance to a
lack of children. The fall in the birth-rate
is the best thing that has happened to
dramatists.
* * * *
Zoe Blundell is a woman well on in the
thirties who has nothing to do but quarrel
with her blatant husband. The rows are
“LOHENGRIN," AT HER MAJESTY’S,
SYDNEY.
Villain Graham Marr swears before King
William Anderson that Elsa has murdered
her little brother.
real rows, and at the end of one of them
Theo Blundell leaves his house. Zoe tries
travelling, ‘gets lonely, sends for one of her
“tame robins,” and he joins her —with the
usual results. Meantime Theo is having a
rather wearisome “gay” time with a lady of
battered rectitude. A mutual friend, with
the theory that in every marriage the part-
ners reach a rough spot in their passage,
situated in mid-channel —a brief period that
leads, once safely passed, into calm water —
attempts to patch up the broken pieces. Both
have got tired of their temporary partners,
and are eager to come back. But first Theo
confesses his lapse with the light lady:
then, in a scene of brilliant construction, he
passes from his light raillery of Zoe’s “tame
robin” to a conviction that the robin hadn’t
been at all tame. Zoe confesses that she,
too. has not been faultless —and at once the
reconciliation is off. Zoe, despetate, goes to
her “tame robin’s” flat to implore him to
take her, but finds that he has engaged him-
self to the usual nice girl. Zoe pitiably re-
cognises that she has “made a hash” of her
life, and hearing her husband coming, re-
tires to another room. Then While the three
men—her husband, her lover and the mutual
friend—discuss a way out of the situation, it
apnears she has thrown herself over a bal-
conv.
The interpretation was as brilliant as the
writing. Miss Aluriel Starr gave to the
neurotic character of Zoe the full intensity
and pathos required. Her work was a reve-
lation of a temperament which can only be
indistinctly guessed at in the few chances
allowed her in “Within the Law.” Aliss
Grace Palotta was a charming chic matron.
THE TUNEFUL LOVER AND THE
SAD SWAN.
Spencer Thomas Lohengrin (Elsa’s melodious
young man) asks the magic swan to transform
itself into the missing boy and confound
villainy.
Miss Nancie Stewart displayed none of a
beginner’s gaucherie. Miss Gwen Burroughs,
as the “gay” female, hardly suggested the
mercenary hardness beneath a seductive
manner. As the “tame robin” Eric Maxon
rather forced his, emotion, but otherwise his
manner was delightful, and he succeeded in
making the weakness, rather than the cad-
dishness, of his part usefully plain. Regin-
ald Wykeham, perfectly cast for the # part
of the crude husband, was thoroughly con-
sistent both in his temper and in his re-
morse. The success of the play, however,
was Pinero’s favorite character of the man-
of-the-world who acts as chorus to the eter-
nal triangular mix-up. The mutual friend,
played by Arthur Styan, gave him the
opportunity to depict with fine subtlety the
charming club-man, whose good heart makes
him a bit of a bore, but whose sincerity
shines out behind his quaint mannerisms
and his conventional mind. Styan, relin-
quishing the White Slave traffic for one
afternoon, presented a character as unfor-
getable as is that of Miss Starr’s impetuous
and terribly human Zoe.
❖ * * v
The Quinlan Opera Co. has packed up its
wardrobe for flight, and Her Majesty’s (Syd-
ney) is filled with the clatter of “Come
Over Here” rehearsals. The haughty Revue
damsels will help to fill the bill on Saturday
evening.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
John McCormack was programmed for just
five songs at his farewell concert last Satur-
day night. But his devoted Town Hall
audience thundered and shouted at him till
he finished up with a score of 14 numbers,
all of them well and truly sung. Soprano
May Huxley, violinist Mcßeath and accom-
panist O’Brien earned their share of riot
and disorder ; but it was after each McCor-
mack item that the real avalanche crashed
down. It must grieve him to be leaving,
asthore. There may be money in other lands,
but och ! how aisy it is to pick it up in Aus-
tralia, me jool!
v »!'
“East Lynne,” the imperishable Little
Williedrama, will snuffle through its final per-
formance at Sydney Royal on Friday night,
when the Andersdn season closes. The
wretched old thing only started last Satur-
day evening, so its run has been brief. 11. R.
Roberts works a litle novelty into the part
of Sir Francis Levison, and the rest of the
co. act well enough to escape a vote of cen-
sure. The citizens at large have not at-
tended in large quantities at Willie’s bed-
side, and the funeral service is likely to be
unimpx-essive. On Saturday night, Julius
Knight and Irene Brown start serious busi-
ness with Bernard Shaw’s “Alan and
Superman.”
At the Little Theatre, Wilton Welch’s
admirable production of the White Slave
melodrama, “The Warning,” is being well
patrpnised.
William Anderson, who has the Christmas
dates at the Palace (Sydney), will induce
his American Musical Burlesque Co. to re-
appear in the theatre on Saturday with “A
Day at the Races.” Last time the combina-
tion was at the Palace it opened with “The
Grafters,” and hilarity is alleged to be just
as pronounced in the racecourse piece.
** & *
The Adelphi’s panto, “Aladdin,” is due on
Wednesday next; and meanwhile “A Girl’s
Temptation” continues to demand a hearing
The big-typers in the panto are to be Grace
Palotta, Carrie Moore and Percy Clifton
a combination that ought to do things well.’
If the Tivoli could find a few T more turns
like Hawley’s drama, “The Bandit,” this
paper would buy up poor old Dan O’Con-
nor’s supply of compliments. The playlet
is easily the best thing in its line that has
happened this year, and should hold its own
against all-comers for some time to come.
The Pasquali Bros, provide a rare supply 0 f
tumbling and hand-balancing; and Ferry
Corwey, the musical clown, is responsible
for a good mixture of music and piffle. The
five Petleys and Du Calion are the principals
in the remainder of the programme.
# ❖ ❖ ❖
There is another interesting animal turn
at the National Amphitheatre (Sydney)
this week, supplied by Howard’s bears and
dogs. Audiences at the Fuller music-hall
are always ready to welcome well-trained
Leasts, and brother Howard has the goods.
In the musical line the Five Lasses have been
rustling the applause, and Mantell’s mario-
nettes have been keeping the warmth circu-
lating. The co. is all-American and as
versatile as Uncle Sam’s canned meats.
The floating population of the White City
at Rushcutter’s Bay (Sydney) increases as
the big amusement park becomes better
known and the Gum Leaves drift in from
the country for the holiays. The side-shows
have been running to big business during the
week, particularly the scenic railway, giant
hurdy-gurdy, fun factory, puzzle house and
mirror maze ; and the numerous free enter-
tainments have been generously supported.
JjS %
At the J. D. AVilliams theatres this week
the pick of the films were “Zuza,” a two-
reel Keystone comedy, at the Crystal Palace;
“The Lost Millionaire,” a mixture of love
and cash, at the Empress ; and a Balkan War
picture at the Lyric, “The Secret of Adrian-
ople,” chock-full of excitement, aeroplanes,
racing motors and machine guns. “The
Miracle,” to be screened at West’s on Satur-
day, looks like being a record-breaker; and
“Our New Minister” is putting in some good
work at the Lyceum. “Sister Beatrix.”
which is an alias for “The Miracle,” will
head the bill at the Imperial (William-street)
on Saturday.
“Miss Elizabeth's Prisoner,” new to Aus-
tralia, is filling in the nights before
Christmas at Melb. Royal. It belongs to
the poor but pleasant order of comedies,
which waver between drama and farce, and
never rise to realism or fall to utter foolish-
ness. If there were any atmosphere of truth
about this purely theatrical story of the
American “rebel” stranger who eventually
“cuts out” a tall, blustering “loyalist” from
the esteem of the lady of the house (time
a.d. 1778), it would be a bracing atmosphere.
But there is no truth in it, nor any in-
genuity of complication, nor room for doubt
as to how the plot will eventuate. More-
over, the easy unearnestness of Lewis Waller
“MISS ELIZABETH’S PRISONER.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When ’Murka, in mad George's days,
Renounced the British yoke,
Madge Titheradge with eyes ablaze
Looked down on any bloke
Who took up arms against the King
To set the country free,
And thought him only fit to swing
From British gallows-tree.
Lew. Waller, lame and out of breath,
Fell into Madge’s clutch,
And might have met a, felon's death,
She hated him so much ;
But Waller, brave and debonair.
Was what the Boers call “slim,”
And when he praised her beauty rare
Madge fell in love with him.
Anon she knew he had befooled
Her eager self-esteem ;
She thought the douche of truth had cooled
The ardor of her dream ;
So Waller, warming to his part,
Swore further love for her.
And in the fortress of her heart
She held him prisoner.
Dear boy, address a wench as Queen
Who reckons you a brute ;
Cry “Plum.” or “Peach” or “Nectarine,”
Or other kind of fruit.
For let a Madge be old or young,
Or in her golden prime,
A Waller with a winsome tongue
Can fool her all the time.
VICTORIA.
O. K.


LEMON SQUASH
SCHWEPPES’
Lime Juice Cordial
made exclusively from Mqntserrat Lime Fruit
Juice, by special arrangement with the
proprietors of Montserrat. Montserrat Lime
Fruit Juice is a most refreshing and thirst-
quenching drink. It is soft and palatable to
the palate, so unlike all other Lime Juice.
SCHWEPPES LIMITED,
Purveyors to His Majesty the King.
Labor’s strenuous fight in Parramatta
against Moxham almost added to the sur-
prises of the N.S.W. elections. On the first
ballot. Liberal had a majority of 403 ; at the
second, the lead dwindled to 216. It looks
as if Joe Cook (who represents Parramatta
in the Federal Parliament) will find a bull-
dog on the doormat the next time he calls.
A Help in
Kidney Troubles.
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS.
makes his most heroic situations more far-
cical than dramatic. One cannot accept
him as a soldier ,n serious danger of being
handed over to the enemy for banging pur
poses. He betrays no anxiety. His mock
love-making and genuine ditto are alike
lacking in the ring of sincerity. Essentiallv
a pleasing personality, Waller the actor is
an artist who never appears to strive for
more than polished surface effects. Miss
Madge Titheradge, on the other hand, occa-
sionally gets inside her character of the
resolute but highly susceptible early-Ameri-
ran•?irl’Jhhough„ she was not built
foi it. I rank \\ oolfe is crude and angular
in the part of the “loyalist” lover who
serves as a foil to Lewis Waller ‘ \W
Thompson and Miss Alma Vaughan provide
the genteel broad comedy, which is quaint
on the male side in one or two episodes; and
the 3 mphitheatre hails with joy the appear-
ance of Charles Pope as a colored servant of
the manor house. The vociferous utterances
of I ope are heavy with the odors of ancient
vaudeville and the memories of faded rag-
times.
An unsophisticated sketch, entitled “The
Great Game, gave delight to a large section’
of the audience last Saturday night The
characters are a tall, lurid burglar
(Wo° lf e) l a creaky sneak thief (Edmund
Waller) ; and an incredibly small detective
(Alee Thompson), who comes disguised ns
a voung Scotch simpleton to arrest the lurid
burglar for murder. After 20 minutes of
all-round improbability the curtain fell on
the capture of the awful Sikes by the in-
finitesimal. Sherlock Holmes, whereat the
gallery broke into seven prolonged bursts of
applause.
s!s sjc sj{
Her Majesty’s (Melbourne) is closed for
rehearsal of the impending panto. On
Saturday (20th) at the early hour of 7.30
p.m. The Forty Thieves” will be formally
committed to popularity for a long term.
Popularity for a W'illiamson panto, is a
foregone conclusion, whether it be deserved
or otherwise. The approaching medley en-
tertainment is classed by the management as
a “stupendous ’ affair, and this journal hopes
for the best.
Also the King’s, whence “The Grafters”
have just departed, is closed for rehearsal of
Anderson’s coming event. “The Land of
Nod” —which is the event in question—in-
troduces itself as a musical fantasy from
America, and several members of the co.
will be making, their first apnearanee in this
country on Saturday next (20th).
* $ *
Gregan McMahon’s amateurs had a couple
of evenings with Bernard Shaw’s “Candida,”
at Melbourne Athenaeum, last week. Gregan
himself played Burgess, and gave a con-
vincing picture of the coarse-grained fraud.
As on a former occasion, Lyle Christian was
a graceful, unearthly Marchbanks, while Miss
Allie Robson had the right clue to Candida.
Her acting wasn’t always perfect, but she
presented “Candy’s” domineering affability
THE CHORUS LADY,” AT MEL-
BOURNE MAJESTIC.
The hose of the chorus.
admirably. The Rev. Lexy Mill, by R. 11.
McFadzean, was appropriately calf-like.
Miss Dorothy Hiscock’s “Prossy” Garnett
was marred by the lady giving a touch of
militancy to the natural impertinence of
the character. Norman Carter’s wings were
too short to raise him to the moderate his-
trionic heights demanded of parson Morell,
who was represented as an effeminate sniv-
eller instead of a manly humbug. “Candida”
was preceded by “The Mate,” wherein Arthur
Schnitzler makes a fuss of a professor’s dis-
covery that what he had regarded as his
wife’s grande passion was merely a passage
of rorty dalliance with a young roue of her
acquaintance. The piece is not the most
notable sample of Schnitzler’s art, and it
contains a very theatrical curtain; but it
was safely interpreted by a party of six,
among whom Gregan McMahon had most to
say, and said it with solemn recognition of
the fact that he was burdened with a great if
fanciful grief.
*<* v H*
“East Lynne” is again failing to keep the
peace at Melbourne Princess’s. The revival,
which is for six nights only, is merely inter-
esting because it pushes another Lady Isa-
bel on Melbourne’s notice. Miss Elwyn
Harvey is the lady in question, and she is
never quite equal to the tearful possibilities
of the part. Vivian Edwards faithfully rea-
lises the perfidy of Francis Levison, and
Cyril Mackay gives due weight to Carlyle's
respectability. Miss Pearl Helmrich con-
tributes a bright red wig to Aunt Cornelia’s
make-up; Miss Pearl Smith, Miss Holroyd,
and Max Clifton figure in other grown-up
parts; while the job of portraying Willie
is the. unreasonable excuse for keeping a
small infant named Huggett out of her bed.
To-morrow is the last night of the calamity.
On Saturday George Willoughby will exhume
“Uncle Tom’s Cabin.”
“THE CHORUS LADY ,” AT MEL-
BOURNE MAJESTIC.
Margaret Nugent as
Mrs. O' Brien.
Ferdinand Muniey as the
Don Juan of the pieet.
Chief features of novelty at the Opera
House this week are amateur ragtime con-
tests, engineered by Gene Greene, the self-
crowned emperor of the most monotonous
form of entertainment that ever happened
hereabouts.. Greene, even with the assist-
ance of his' clever pianist, is incapable of
keeping reasonable persons amused during
the full length of his turn. His six, or
eight, or more ragtime chants are practic-
ally one long string of niggah balderdash,
with a few foreign noises and cheap grimaces
attached. The most that can be expected
of the ragtime contestants is that some of
them will display all the qualifications of
Greene, bar his amazing audacity. Other
items on the present bill are Rosa Roma, a
comely young violinist in a bright, abbre-
viated frock ; Parish, the jumper; the Rich-
ards acrobats; Lucille Savoy; the lantern-
clothed Venus, who presumes to sing; and
Doody and Wright. There are redeeming
absurdities in the efforts of Doody. Among
the others Alberto Marini, the small, robus-
tious tenor, is again taking loud, melodious
liberties with familiar English ballads. His
rendering of "The Rosary,” for instance,
tears the song’s soulful sentiment to shreds.
'!< •I' H*
Branscombe’s Dandies warble and frivol
as usual at their well-appointed domicile on
St. Kilda Esplanade. Eight .Dandies, in-
cluding the pianist, supply an entertainment
which commands a good deal of warm ap-
proval on the bleakest Melbourne nights, and
seems twice as good when the canvas roof is
furled alid stars blink upon the auditorium
from a balmy sky. Hilda Lane, the soprano-
in-chief, is a neat vocalist with a sweet
voice; and the contralto, Evelyn Ward, sings
quite charmingly. Two men are a note or
two above ordinary open-air concert form,
George Morgan is moderately funny at one
end of him and very nimble at the other,
whilst the comedy sketches by Irene Vere
and Claude Dampier count as legitimate in-
citements to mirth. Irene has an air of
enjoying herself, and Claude is a personified
joke.
* * * *
Spencer’s main offering in Melbourne last
week was “Chelsea, 7750,” a detective drama
of great length and much sensation. “Better
Days” and “Old Coupons” both dealt with
a tramp’s affection for a little cheild, while
“Beauty in the Seashell” was a seashore
idyll crowded with the momentous passion
of sticky-sweet 17. Scenes in the Chevreuse
Valley (France) and the usual “Gazettes”
came as something of a relief to the gener-
ally bathetic tendencies of the prevailing
fiction.
At Melbourne Majestic “The Chorus
Lady” is still rescuing her young sister from
the clutches of the unseemly liichard Craw-
ford. Also her lover, Dan Mallory, con-
tinues to put the worst possible construction
on her movements, and shouts his opinion
of her virtue to her friends and relations.
As for Crawford, he leaves it to relays of
fashionable footwear to convey a hint of
his wickedness. Otherwise one would say
that he was a sedate and solemn city man
who had wandered into the drama by mis-
take.
At Adelaide Royal, “The Man on the Box”
has run a merry week. It is just one of the
good-style sentimental farces that modern
Anierica loves, and Hugh Buckler and his
wife do more tba_n justice to its light humor ;
also they are well supported, especially on
the men’s side. In the open air there is
steadv support for the Dandies —a capable
all-round crowd. At the Tivoli Reynolds
and Donegan still skate, and the Fanton
athletes still turn upside down while blind-
folded, and the Primrose heavyweights and
Lillie Langtry still sing. Lily Eyton is a
pleasing new item. The King’s has a lot of
clever new people, who are reserved for
criticism next week. West’s have a French
drama, gloomy but highly popular; Wonder-
graph a sporting event, racing plus aero-
p’ane, with a beauty competition to follow ;
and the little Pav., handily-situated for
Christmas shoppers, scores with a well-mixed
programme.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“R. 8.”: I have been looking over Sydney’s White
City, and find it the expected Place of Things to
Scare People Deliciously; Mad Railways to Make
Girls Scream and Grip Their Escorts ; and, more
than all, Contrivances Which Hurt Other People
and Make You Laugh. Before I left for America
a youth in The Bulletin office asked me to place
his invention of a loop-the-loop railway at Coney
Island. The showman I submitted it to said: “This
ain’t dangerous-lookin’ enough. Watcher want is
sumpin’ real safe, but lookin’ terr’ble dangerous, so
the girls in the car squeal and hold fast to the
boys. Then you got some success.” Scenic rail-
ways do that; so do the joy-wheels, with the added
attraction of informal leg-shows. But what pleases
most is hurling at something in the form of man-
kind, even though it be but an effigy ; and in throwing
balls at something breakable, preferably crockery.
The show that must become popular is the collec-
tion of solemnly-ridiculous scarecrow effigies, moving
on a circular railway, of 'which but half is seen-
out of a “property” pub, and round- the stage, and
off again. These figures are of wood, so that they
may suffer the impact of wooden balls without seri-
ous damage, and when a figure takes a stunning
blow on the face or head great is the joy thereat.
But the show should do better by giving personal-
ities to the wooden targets. Most of the people who
go to the White City are probably Labor ; and what
could be funnier to the mob than the bombardment
of comic politicians of both sides of politics? Joseph
Cook; Speaker Johnson as he played Little Willie
in “East Lynne” ; Willy Kelly taking himself seri-
ously; Bruce Smith at his most portentous moment;
Irvine burlesquing George Higinbotham; George
Reid and his Primitive Methodist jokes ; Kink O’Mal-
ley at any time; the gloomy Wade; that great
statesman Ryrie, who would thus be served by the
only argument he can understand ? The Libs might
be given Holman and Griffith to shy at, though the
average Lib. can rarely hit anything, if his choice
of a leader is anything to go by.
From Maud Williamson, Surrey Theatre, London:
“Absalom Jones” (B. 18/9/’l3) honors me too much.
I have never written or played any version of
“Joseph of Canaan” other than the admirable one
by the Rev. Geo. Walters, produced by the late Geo.
Rignold at Her Majesty’s Theatre, Sydney, in which
I created the part of Ayesha, Potiphar’s wife. In it
I afterwards toured with Mr. Alfred Woods, who
played Joseph. There is eertainly no such line in
the play as “Absalom” cites. The Rev. Geo. Wal-
ters’s play, which was before its time, is almost
identical in scenario with “Joseph and His Breth-
ren,” now running at His Majesty’s, London. Geo.
Rignold brought the Walters play to London and I
was engaged to play my original part in it; but
the Lord Chamberlain wouldn’t let us. It would
be interesting to compare a few of the things
they do license with this very fine version
of a now successful licensed play. Pictures of the
Australian production and photos of the late Scot
Inglis, Geo. Rignold and myself appeared in
The Sketch, St. Paul’s and other London papers;
but I have not seen one paper refer to the fact that
the first version of the story of Joseph and his
brethren was done in Australia, and by a man as
well known theatrically as Sir Herbert Tree.
“Stargazer”: Everything from America is ragged
nowadays. The leading woman in “The Chorus
Lady,” now being produced in Melbourne by an
exceedingly Yankee co., actually succeeds in ragging
the English language. She drops and lifts her
cadences regardless of anything on earth but the
spirit of plantation melodies, and breaks up her sen-
tences in defiance of all the simple elements of
punctuation. A syncopated speech by this lady sounds
as if it should be accompanied by samples of buck
dancing by a celebrated coon-specialist named Sam
Johnsing.
One of the most joyous and conscientious souls
went on the Last Tour when Barney Levy died
in Brisbane the other day. As an advance agent he
knew Australasia, up hill and down gully, working
for St. Leon’s Circus, Dan Batr5 r , Bilanderson,
George Marlow and others. He was with Barry for
about 15 years, and to that salubrious manager sent
a telegram which is still quoted in the dressing-
rooms. Levy had been sent ahead into the smalls
of Victoria, and arrived at Nhill. There- he found
a newly-built hall—the only play-house. He
enthusiastically measured it up and wired to Barry
as follows: “Magnificent hall here; show week; hall
seats about 1500 ; good prospects; ought to do excep-
tionally well, but can’t get hall.” One more. The
MacMahons were running a show which needed an ox
to draw a light waggon. Levy was ahead and was
ordered to get the beast. When the co. landed at
the railway station Levy was asked if he had obtained
the ox. “No,” said he, “but I got a cow.” “What
the is the good of a cow?” asked Alfred
Woods, who was then stage-managing. “Oh, it’ll
be all right,” replied Levy;’“bring it on half-way!”
“Ginno Fizzo”: George Portus, who blew into
Adelaide a few days ago to manage the New Tivoli,
blew out almost as quickly. He moved on to Wes-
tralia with a bunch of variety artists to open up
vaudeville in Perth for the Rickards circuit. Mclntosh
fixed everything up at the last minute —-even to the
act of the Eight Saxones, who (on a request by wire-
less) got off the outgoing English boat at Fre-
mantle. The departure of Portus gives Adelaide a
new manager in Percy Crawford—the third within
seven days.
“Blue Mask”: It was suggested last week by
several enthusiasts that the supporting public should
have been given a say by ballot as to which operas
should be produced by Quinlan at Sydney in the final
nights of the season. Wonderful what faith innocent
box-payers have in that ballot fraud! Labouchere
used to chuckle over the way he worked it when he
was in the game. He had announced his intention
of producing a Shakspeare play, and began to push
the advertising by giving patrons of his theatre the
right to vote as to which of the immortal Bill’s
pieces should be selected. Meanwhile, he had pre-
pared “Cymbeline.” The public went 1 heavy on
“Hamlet,” “Macbeth” and “The Merchant of Venice,”
in that order. Only two plunged on “Cymbeline.”
They were Labouchere and his manager. They won —
easy. Also, they did good business.
Australia’s erstwhile American friend J. D. Wil-
liams is understood to be bringing a “magic” show
with him on his imminent return from the United
States. It was something of the kind he had last
time.
The obsolete system in the picture-show business
of giving one performance each night and two
matin&es a week will soon be a thing of the past in
Australia. Spencer has been hanging on ,to it; but
he passes over to the continuous-day-and-night idea.
Which means that the Combine has decided on the
non-stop.
“B.B.”’: I nominate as the busiest scene-painters
in Australia Harry Whaite and George Dixon, of Syd-
ney. During the year they have used over 250 bolts
of canvas, and a bolt contains 65 or 70 yards double-
width. The shows and “shops” they have dressed in-
clude the new Adelaide Tivoli, Little Theatre (Sydney),
Sydney Tivoli (new scenes and drop), Hongkong
Theatre, Perth Theatre (West’s), another at Albany,
Corson Clarke’s show at Melbourne, the “Glory Girl”
turn (Tivoli), exterior of a church for “The
Miracle” (West’s), “Paul Jones” .(Newcastle
amateurs), “Mikado” (Goulburn amateurs), “Doro-
thy” (Maitland amateurs), “Country Girl” (Lis-
more amateurs), “Chorus Girl” (for rfew Ameri-
can co.), Stephanson-Linley panto. (M.L.), “Les
Cloches des Corneville” (Warwick Operatic Co.),
and a large stock of scenery for the Queensland
Government. Whaite was for years with Brough and
Boucicault and Herbert Fleming, and painted all
their productions while with them. His partner,
Dixon, was up till recently chief assistant to Joseph
Harker, London’s biggest brush, and did a lot of
Oscar Asche’s beautiful scenery. Whaite promises him-
self a trip to Britain in March or thereabouts.
“Anon”: “Harrison O.” (B. 27/11/’l3) wants the
divorce proceedings in “A Butterfly on the Wheel”
quashed for irregularity. Of course, the anonymous
letter is not evidence per se, and it is in getting over
the difficulty that the legal knowledge of the K.C.
helps the dramatic skill of his collaborator. It is
done this way. Counsel for both respondent and
co-respondent withdraw any objection they had to
the letter being read to the jury, because any damage
the reading of the letter might do had already been
done by the outburst of the respondent after the
letter had been placed in her hands. It is far-
fetched, of course, but ingenious and quite good
law. If it hadn’t been for the letter going in as
evidence, Peggy would probably have lost the case,
the play would have been a poor one, and Beerbohm
would not have made the tender inquiry; “Do you
write with your left hand ?”
“Stargazer”: I have seen the Waller whom London
was unaccountably keen on. He was playing in “The
Butterfly on the Wheel,” and over against him was an
unimportant pro. of the Beerbohm family, whom not
even Lal-Lal has gone crazy about. Yet the com-
paratively young Thespian whom Lal-Lal has studi-
ously ignored, by a genteel effort of easy speech and
natural action made the great artist look a hard,
harsh metallic product. Really Waller was most
unwise in throwing his old, rigid, stage-made methods
into contrast with the manner of a more recent pro.
who acts as he lives, breathes and has his being, so
that the star appeared a dramatic slot-machine by
comparison. I know comparisons are odious, but
Waller is responsible for this one.
“C.A.”: Picture-man Spencer’s ambition has been to
create an Australian picture-film industry, and now he
believes he has done it. When he first tried to start
it he found the Yankee and European combines too
strong for him. To go in for the business on a large
scale meant that his supply of films was likely to
be cut off, and, in any case, he had no chance of
exporting. So he took two trips round the world to
see what could be done by diplomacy. On his last
jaunt he fixed things up, and brought back with him,
as producer, Alexander Butler, a man of experience
in America, England and Italy; and he made an
arrangement with the English and Yankee combines
to take 40 copies of every film produced. So the
industry starts at Rushcutter’s Bay (Sydney) on a
good, sound basis. A stock company is to be engaged
and the work will go on all the time.
Tittell Brune has turned up again in London, this
time as Cigarette in a revival of Ouida’s “Under
Two Flags” at the Lyceum. Like “East Lynne,”
this tearful yarn has a big following, and Tilda has
been scoring as a sprightly vivandiere before crowded
audiences.
MOON MOODS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My soul is filled with sentiment
(The sloppy sort, in penny books),
Because the moon has torn the tent
Of dark-blue sky, and roundly looks
Upon me as I lie among
The grains of , sand ;
Because the summer night is young;
Because the band
(By ocean voices nearly drowned)
Emits a rhythmic, rippling sound.
My eyes send out a pair of tears
To take a gentle evening run,
The while I dream of useless years
And wondrous things I might have done ;
Thus good intentions stir my s#ul,
Beneath the moon,
As though it were a porridge bowl
Stirred by a spoon ;
And with my mood in sympathy
The band croons in a minor key.
But soon again impenitent
(For moods are brief beside the sea),
Light moon-engendered sentiment
And sweet romance steal over me.
A maid with moon-embellished face
Upon the sand
Returns a silvered youth’s embrace,
The while the band
Bleats out a little tune for me—
A plaintive, lovesick melody.
But now the night, like us, -grows old,
And freezes my romantic mood;
Young love upon the beach grows cold,
And hurries off in search of food ;
My nose dislikes the chilly air
The while the sand
Has mingled damply in my hair;
And now the band
Has changed its tune from gay to grave,
And blows its final blast, “God save.”
N.s.w.
F. OLDMAN.


u
It ****** AWflH*.
DAVID JOKE
GlFTS—Acceptable
to MEN
From a large and varied assortment of high-grade goods
The SIMPLEX
Safety C|
Razor for
-'A : Very T uSeful gift would be the’Simplex Safety Razor outfit —-
containing -polished Simplex Razor, the blade of which
f ‘ is quietly "'adjusted—also 6 blades perfectly ground and set.
' Complete in Leatherette Case 'for £»/-
...--A o Extra blades cost 1/6 per packet of 5.
These goods sent carriage paid to any part of Australasia.
DAVID JONES, LIMITED,
t Opposite G.P.0., SYDNEY.
The “Auto” Pipe, Comoy’s high-
grade London-made pipes, speci-
ally selected briar, best hand-cut
vulcanite mouthpiece, and heavy
sterling silver, dome and band.
This pipe is specially suitable for
the motorist, yachtsman, golfer
and for all outdoor pursuits and
occupations. Each pipe fitted in
a solid pigskin case. Bent or
: straight stem .. ..17/6 each.
G^RG lOV£r
Car
Gossip
The money at stake in the choice of an oil is
vastly more than the cost of any oil whatever.
Gargoyle Mobiloil is our speciality.
Gargoyle Mobiloil
and Pratt’s Spirit
The result of fifty years’ experience.
No one else k'j been at It so long or achieved
so good results in the petroleum business.
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty. Ltd.
Throughout the CommatwiMi
and New Zealand
Society
In the calm of evening, when the last sun
reflections were fading from the discolored
Yarra, a lonely river fisherman felt some-
thing heavy on his line, and pulled in. As
the hook neared the surface the Something
rolled off, yet not before the fisherman had
seen what it was. But he pulled himself
together and angled for it again in a rever-
ent sort of way, and, having hooked it firmly,
drew it out and laid it on the shadowy bank.
Then, having caught quite enough for one
evening, he wound up his line in haste and
TAINT AND POWDER.
THE ARTIST : afraid I've got your color a trifle too high.”
THE LADY : “Oh, a little powder will put that right.”
stumbled off to the South Yarra police sta-
tion, where he reported that a cold, silent
man was waiting down by the dark
river. The Yarra fishermen, of whom there
are a fair number, occasionally catch fish;
but mostly they go to the sad brown stream
to think deeply and listen to the wind sigh-
ing in the willows. Thev look mournfully
at the people in passing skiffs and are only
moved to passion by the wash of a motor-
boat disturbing their lines. The submarine
traveller who arrived without making a
ripple was probably- regarded with an
approving eye by his captor. But did the
fisherman go down next evening? Would
anyone—even a Yarra fisherman —want to
go down next evening and put a new hook in
the Brown Waters of Oblivion?
This shows how the wind blows since the
waterside strike commenced in Maoriland.
He had taken out his passage from Auck-
land to Sydney on the last trip of the
Maheno, which steamer was manned (in a
manner of speaking) by a nondescript crowd
of “loyalists.” Being known as a “red-rag”
public speaker, he was welcomed by
“specials” (presumably /special constables)
on the wharf, and by them reviled and as-
saulted. However, he got aboard the ship
and to his cabin; but presently it was
rushed by the strike-breakers who formed
the crew, and he was assaulted some more,
dragged along the deck, bumped down the
gangway, and tossed out into the roadway.
There some mounted police rescued him.
Of course, no arrests were made ; but if that
passenger had been a “free laborer” the
mounted police would probably have batoned
the assaulting crowd good and hearty, and
would certainly have arrested one or two of
them. Likewise, the Tory press, which re-
ported the above facts as a mere matter of
indifferent detail, would have been howling
at the door of the Government for revolvers
to arm the police in the defence of helpless
citizens against the brutal mob.
Mrs. de Willoughby Waye writes
You know the present fashion in hats is a striking
one, a la Hussar and all that, and I really had to
have a new one (as I told George) if I was to help
on polling-day. The last fortnight has been too awful
for anything, what with one thing and another, and I
wish you to understand that I refer particularly to the
shameful way in which people have been libelling our
man. George says it’s actionable, he believes, only that
at election time things are not quite so rigidly adhered
to, or something like that. He growled when I told
him that I had ordered my hat —a perfect duck;
turquoise-blue pile velvet, white ostrich feathers and
pale gold band, and only 20 guineas. But of course,
it was quite impossible to go and vote in anything
common. Do you know, we were worried out of our
lives by the wretched —what do they call the crea-
tures ? ” Yes —canvassers (what a horrid word !) dur-
ing the last two or three weeks. You know how
• hard it is to keep a girl nowadays, with the
minxes running off to get married (how they can
do it and leave ladies to perform quite menial
duties, passes my comprehension) ; and my cook
absolutely refuses to answer the bell, as she tells
me it is not in the schedule of the Cooks’ Union
(not the bell, of course, but the answering).
was the consequence? Not only had I to see most
of the callers myself, but — ugh ! —those horrid can-
vassers ! The first one was Mrs. Dobbs, our fruit -
and-vegetable man’s wife, a person who wished to
know whether I would .vote No-license. Of course,
1 said at once that I would; I really could not afford
to be seen talking with a woman of her social posi-
tion on my own doorstep ! Then a very fat, pimply-
faced man, who smelled dreadfully of drink, and
broke a lot of our flowers as he came up the path,
he was staggering so, rang the bell and would not
g 0 away un tn he had told me the history of pro-
hibition on — I think it was the rolling main, he
said; and he looked like a shocking bad sailor,
Anyhow, I promised to vote for it if Madame sent
my hat m time, and he went away. A woman called
from the Labor League next day> and; of COU rse, :
promised, to get rid of her, as I could see she was
impossible, socially. Several ladies came from the
Liberal League, and implored me not to vote for
anyone but the rejected candidate, otherwise Labor
would win the seat, and we should all be ruined.
I didn’t know anything about him, but I promised to
yote for hjm wh - en M B adame sent my hat. But the
wre tch never sent it, and so I stayed at home all
day and ne ver voted at all.
ONE FOR HER AND TWO FOR HIMSELF.
HE: "I' ve never seen your husband —whats he like?”
SHE: “ Oh, about your build! ”
He: “ Ha! Rather a fine chap—what!”
Toys must now be numbered among the
things that Australians Can’t Make. That
is to say, with their present ineffective Pro-
tection, manufacturers in this country are
unable to turn out an article that can com-
pete with the sweat-shop production from
abroad. For the first 11 months of this
year £70,000 worth of toys were imported
into the Commonwealth. Japan sends us
about £lO,OOO worth, largely for the
Christmas season; and in October of this
year £8436 worth made in Germany
and £6778 worth from the Cold Country
were dumped in this long-suffering country.
However, the good unionist who buys a doll
for his infant need not worry that he is
purchasing the product of sweated white
slaves. The chances are that the thing was
made by a Jap, a Hindoo or a Cingalee—-
the two last being also contributors to this
country’s toy supply.
“Gazer”; “F’s” faithful account of the
dull horror of Horsham (B. 4/12/’l3) re-
minds me that a couple of years back a
cocky, domiciled some miles out of that
Stygian country village, sued his wife for
divorce. The climax of his list of reasons
why the marital halter should be unhitched
was that his wife, instead of working con-
tentedly in the domestic abode, was always
dissatisfied, and “yearned for life in Hor-
sham”!
* * * *
A Melbourne sensation of last week was
the hasty suicide of Mrs. Isabella Newman,
who first pushed herself into prominence
when she issued a challenge to run any
woman in the Commonwealth for £5O and
the alleged championship. Her gage was
accepted by Miss Ivy Evans, of Bendigo,
and the contest happened on the South Mel-
bourne ground in March, 1908, in the pre-
sence of a numerous assemblage and the
late T. Bent. Mrs. Newman, or Madam
Isa Bell, as she called herself, was then
about 40 and possessed a husband and sev-
eral children, wherefore no one was sur-
prised when Miss Evans, much younger and
more sprightly, easily defeated her. Six
months later publicity of another sort came
to her, over a matter of a very new baby,
which had been taken from its mother at
Geelong and handed to a nurse at Coburg.
From her it was adopted by Mrs. Newman ;
but when the police wanted to know why it
hadn’t been vaccinated it could not be found
-—and it has never been found to this day.
The athletic lady said she had transferred
it, in the street, to a Mrs. Milburn, but no
Mrs. Milburn with a newly-adopted infant
could be discovered. There was practically
no evidence to convict her of having a hand
in the disappearance of the infant, but the
law tried her on a charge of perjury com-
mitted when “up” for the non-registration
of the adoption—and gave her 12 months.
Since then the police have naturally been
interested in her, and finding that, under
various names and in different suburbs, she
was advertising her willingness to adopt in-
fants, they became more than suspicious.
Finally a Fitzroy woman, being unable to
get a view of a baby Mrs. Newman had
adopted, complained to the police, who pro-
ceeded to Mordialloc and arrested her. She
took the matter coolly, and desired a tew
minutes’ seclusion to change her raiment
which few minutes she spent in writing a
note declaring her innocence and in taking
a dose of strychnine. She was dead in hai
an hour.
FROM A SELF-MADE MORALIST TO A LADY
FRIEND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Pray, do not worry, Mabel, though
You have, at times, been called a “sport.”
Ignore dull critics of the quaint,
Wayback Elizabethan sort.
Be careful of your looks, my dear,
And you may smile at Chadband’s blame.
Though through your dress your curves appear,
From me no censure need you fear ;
For skirts that cause a cry of “shame”
The perfect figure oft proclaim.
Whom the “boys” love are always young
And fair, this being as it should ;
So be you beautiful, dear girl,
And let whoever will be good !
Ma Grundy’s pain is Percy’s bliss;
She wins the gay who shocks the staid.
The “sport” we ; un’t afford to miss;
So stay. And please ■'emember this,
That Modesty, my gentle maid,
Is but Immodesty afraid !
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.
THE DERELICTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Melbourne Argus points out many shocking possi-
bilities of a system of appointing Australian Gover-
nors. Ruined by the luxury and indolence of the
vice-regal office, the men would decline to return to
any menial task. They would become bankrupts,
perhaps “guinea-pigs”; but most assuredly the dis-
carded Governor would be a wretched creature for
whom the couritry could have no conceivable use.
’Tis well this possibility
Is brought right home to all of us.
Oh, what a shocking thing to see
One who has stood for good King G.
Reduced to be a common cuss,
With broken clothes and battered hat,
Who begs a copper on the mat,
Or follows some mere butcher fhr
To cadge the butt of his cigar!
Victoria’s democratic son
If set in Tommy Fuller’s seat,
When his vice-regal course is run
Will be no use to anyone,
And may become a wretched “beat.”
No kind of work would suit his whim;
Whatever could we do with him —
Unless we sent him, Crusoe style,
To finish on a desert isle?
The country will be much annoyed,
If we this foolish scheme commence,
With one new class of unemployed
In whom incentive is destroyed
And nothing’s left but decadence!
Poor refugees from Gov’ment House
Turned off sans energy and nous
To start as nobodies anew—
As oft Imperial Governors do !
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


Wild s Hairdressing Rooms, 30 Upstairs,
Sydney Arcade, George and King Streets, Sydney, is
the proper place to go if you want the best of atten-
tion. Electric head and face massage done in the
latest American style. Hours of business: 8.30 to
6.30; Saturday close at 1 o’clock.*
<8? «
I a
1
a v
THE NEW
SILK STRIPE MATERIAL.
“SILUSTRIA”
- FLANNEL
WILL NOT SHRINK.
WHITE CLOTHING
FOR BEACH WEAR.
During the holidays, and the many months of hot weather
that follow, cool White Clothing proves ideal for beach wear.
Tor your holiday in the country it would be equally appreci-
able.
We illustrate a Ready-to-wear Sac Suit, made of White Duck
or Drill weave.
The Coat has 4 patch pockets, unpadded shoulders, and detach-
able buttons.
Easily laundered—neat, smart and attractive.
SAC COAT, 11/6. PATROL JACKET, 11/6.
TROUSERS, 10/6.
Garments may be purchased separately. Please state chest,
waist and inside leg measurements.
Patterns and New Catalogue on request.
Peapes & Co., Ltd.,
Men's
Outfitters,
309 & 3 U GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
f
c£&
“Bloore”: It seems to me that “the Ser-
vice” must be going to the dogs, for I under-
stand that another British naval officah is
to do the necessary pen-pushing for the South
Sydney Hospital; and I ask, Whaffor? Why
this indecent haste to retire from “the finest
service in the world, sir!” with its super-
Dreadnoughts and its entree to Government
House, to take on the recording of minutes
and the supervision of hot-water services in
suburban hospitals? If it is the screw, then
what, in all conscience, can Captain Fitz-
herbert be receiving as chief of 11.M.5.
Horrible, and what must his understrappers!
the navigating lootenant and the torpedo
expert, be getting that they hanker after
these tadpole shore-billets! But the queer
part of the arrangement is that, whilst any
old person is considered capable of taking
charge of hospital finances and general ad-
ministration, a matron must graft for half
a lifetime and pass all sort of exams, in
midwifery, obstetrics, sanitation, etc., and
then achieve a possible (but very improb-
able) £l5O a year!
* * * *
“Petrol” : The news that the Dutch packet
steamers plying Between Australia and
Java have, for commercial reasons, changed
back from oil fuel to coal makes pleasant
reading for mariner folk. Sailor men have
never taken kindly to oil, for various reasons,
one being that perils were thick enough
already. Mineral oil is dangerous stuff,
with a bad habit of giving off a colorless
vapor of a highly inflammable nature. Hence
its prohibition as cargo in passenger ships.
As to the real nature 6f this danger, witness
the fate of the British s.s Twingone while
unloading case oil in an Asiatic port last
September. She had discharged a large
quantity of oil in cases and drums into a
lighter alongside, when a sling broke and
a case fell on top of the cargo in the ligjiter.
Everything blazed up at once, and every-
body on both lighter and steamer did the
one thing possible—took a header into the
shark-infested harbor. All hands were picked
up with the exception of the first and second
engineers, the captain’s three-year-old
daughter and nurse, the port-officer’s nine-
year-old son, a fireman in the stokehold and
a few natives. Eyewitnesses reckon it was
only four seconds from the time the sling
broke until the lighter was in flames, and
no more than four minutes before the
Twingone was enveloped. The terrible
rapidity with which the flames spread was
due to the way the vapor from the oil had
permeated the ship.
TO COVER
HER BRUSHES.
“ Don't you think
it’s hiding too
much of my face?"
"Not if you aren’t
going to hide any
more of the rest
of you."
“Royal Blue’s” pained remarks: —
Lister Lister has been awarded the Wynne prize
(1913) for the best painting of an Australian subject
by an Australian artist. The value of the prize this
year is £33 ss. (the interest on a bequest of
£1000), and the winner lifts the pool with his
picture of Canberra. This is the fifth time Lister
has collected the money, and the consequent dissatis-
faction has something to commend it. The truth is
the allocation of the Wynne prize is in the wrong
hands to inspire confidence. The trustees of the
N. S. Wales Gallery are estimable citizens —good
traders, politicians, and so on. Also, there
are two artists on the Board, the principal
one being Lister Lister, the other being G.
V. F. Mann, the secretary. Now, what a
lot of people want to know is, did the traders,
etc., convince Lister that his picture of
Canberra was the best Australian subject produced
this year, or did Lister convince the traders? I say
unhesitatingly that I do not believe Lister had any-
thing to do with it. That leaves the responsibility
to be shared by the secretary and the traders. And
it s a responsibility that calls for, at least, a more
critical foundation.
LEAVINGS.
HE : “ There goes poor Dave.
I don’t suppose he’s left
his wife much."
The HEARTLESS CHARMER:
“Oh, well, she can't have
everything. Goodness
knows he used to leave her
enough when he was
alive.”
There was a touch of grim humor —or was
it womanly sentiment? —about Melbourne’s
deceased baby-farmer, Isabella Newman.
Hanging on the wall of the dilapidated fowl-
house, just over the spot where the police
dug up two baby bodies, was a withered
bunch of flowers —pansies and forget-me-
nots !
“Gerald Baker”: A
heap of money is being
spent on naval bases, and
I want to know why they
are all situated in the
southern half, of Austra-
lia. Trouble must come
by-and-bye, and it is a
hundred to one on the
Brown People starting it
in the North; yet the
fleet seems to be for ever
having a good time in the
South. When trouble
comes, are the ships sup-
posed to scorch north-
wards and thread their
way at breakneck speed
through the disgracefully-lighted
Barrier Reef? There’s going to
be some fighting, anyhow, and in
case of partial disablement, neces-
sitating dry-docking, have they to
come back to Sydney or Jervis
Bay (if it is ready), or go right
round and down to Cockburn
Sound? Surely a naval base
should be constructed on the north
coast and made as impregnable as
human ingenuity can do it. What’s
wrong with Port Darwin, where
there’s a fine harbor, which will
be situated at the northern ter-
minus of the north-to-south trans-
continental railway—-when it is
built? Brown Brother might at-
tack one of the big cities in the
South, but he would find it a
million times harder to hold on to
anything there than he would to
occupy and keep the at present
empty but fertile void that lies
practically unprotected in the North.
“Clay Face” : The painting of Australian
pictures and portraits of representative
Australians for the Commonwealth is out of
the hands of Australians and in the hands
of the wee Scotch Andrew Fisher. Hugh
Patterson (who is also Scotch and a friend
of Ahndrew’s) and Meldrum practically have
the disposal of the jobs, and the result is
very Glaswegian indeed. Hopetoun and
Tennyson were not Australians, but pil-
grims and strangers; and. in any case, one
Henry Parkes or John Forrest or William
Lyne or J. C. Watson is of more importance
to Australian history than a ton of Gover-
nor-Generals. The selection of artists
amounts, too, to gross favoritism. Any Aus-
tralian artist who has made good should
have a chance, and the wider the experience
of portrait art so gained the better. Mel-
drum has already had three commissions,
and is understood to express his belief that
some more will find their way to him. What
justification is there for sending back to
Phillips Fox his portrait of Fisher, or for
turning-down Ambrose Patterson, who is
good enough for Brussels gallery, anyhow?
Last May, when the “Liberals” were doing
their best to decry Labor throughout the
country, a loud song was made about the
alleged increase of strikes in the Common-
wealth under Labor rule. Now Statistician
Knibbs, to whom it doesn’t matter whether
a Labor or a Liberal Government is in
office, hands in a few brief but suggestive
figures concerning industrial disputes during
the first three quarters of this year. The
first quarter of 1913 saw 39 disputes in the
Commonwealth ; the second 49 and the third
60. And the second quarter was passed
partly under a Liberal Government, the
third wholly. These statisticians are a
nuisance.
“Front Garden”: Whisky is not my
hobby, but I live in N. S. Wales, and voted
in the top square and gave the Demon
Drink a leg up. It was the way the local
publicans worked the campaign that got
me. One night, on coming home, I found
that the Demon or his understudy had paid
a call and left a neat little booklet filled
with interesting historical details of the
few pubs in my electorate. The publicans
themselves, splendid fellows without excep-
tion, were so highly spoken of that I felt
sorry I had not more time to drink for them.
Whoever wrote that booklet wrote it with
tears streaming down his pen while his
bosom swelled with emotion. He could
hardly bear to say what would happen to
the district if these noble characters were
driven out, and he sobbed for a whole page
when he spoke of the possible drying-up of
the local bowling green. It did me good to
read it, and I stowed it away in my pocket.
Next evening I found the No-license der-
vishes had thrown a handful of unpleasant
leaflets amongst my struggling plants and
converted the place into a sort of intellec-
tual rubbish tip. The untidy leaflets, as
well as being unpleasant, were full of insult-
ing suggestions. I was given credit 'for
about 3d. worth of will power and 2d. worth
of decency. It appeared that I was running
a deadly risk. The fact that beer was avail-
able on six days per week four miles off was
threatening my whole life. A dreadful
drawing of a hopeless drunk lying in a
gutter was appended* just to show me what
would become of me' if I didn’t hurry the
curse out of the district. I burnt the in-
human, joyless stuff in- the back yard. The
militant teetotaller is what the boxing re-
porter would call “an unattractive fighter.”
* * * +r
Swimming further out into the placid sea
of Socialism, the Prahran and Malvern
Tramways Trust (Vic.) is engaged in the
construction of yet another ele’ctric bar-line,
this time from Malvern to Glen Iris. The
latest enterprise provides "Sufficient proof
that the Trust’s previous tramway-experi-
ments have been a success. Several Glen
Iris and Malvern East landholders have
particular reason to rise up and call the
Trust blessed, and to hail Socialism as a
pal. One valuable lot of land at the ter-
minus of the new line belonged to the late
Bill Knox, and was sold the for
big money. Another nice area is owned by
Sydney Stott, the shorthand expert, who got
it at a bargain ; while the recent sale of cer-
tain tramway-blest landscape has greatly
benefited a Stott neighbor, Miss Robinson, a
lady who is known throughout the dairy
sections of the State .as a breeder of the
beast which keeps Little Willie Backblocks
from oversleeping himself. The unearned
increment on these three areas would be
enough to keep the Knoxes, Stotts and Miss
Robinson in motor-cars for some time;
wherefore it seems strange that, in all its
Socialistic tramway-construction projects,
the Trust has never sought powey (if it
hasn’t got it already) to buy up land along
the proposed tramway-routes prior to start-
ing work. This would spread the financial
blessings around among all the ratepayers
who meet the bill for the car-lines, instead
of giving the advantage to a mere handful
of them.
FIND THE WOMAN.
SHE: “ He’s a confirmed bachelor .”
HE: “ Ah—who confirmed him?"
BOATING ON THE UNLIT YARRA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Coroner: I went up the river on Thursday
night. There are sharp turns and shoals and other
dangers. To a person who does not know the river
it is a series of pitfalls. —lnquest report.
The Yarra winds among the hills,
And when night closes down
The flannelled Totties, Kates and Bills
Row, singing, back to town.
There is no light to show the way
That darkly twists and twirls;
It’s tangled badly in the day ;
At night it’s like Jane’s curls.
The willows comb the inky stream
That flows without a sound ;
And, merged into the river’s dream,
The black hills wait around.
No one aboard knows where to turn—
Unless it is the chap
Who sits enraptured in the stern
With girls upon his lap.
Impatient rower, ask him not
Which way the river goes,
For he has other cares, God wot —
Plump curves and silken hose.
Oh, there are sudden shrieks of fear
When something scrapes the planks;
But when the rattling skiff glides clear,
There’s just a sigh of thanks.
It’s all right when the boatshed light
Shines clear for all to see,
And with a straight and silent flight
The boat glides home. “Coo-ee!”
White dresses on the landing ramp;
Young laughter, clear and sweet;
A hired boat rolling by the lamp
When spurned by shoreward feet.
It’s fine when all who rowed away
Elude the shoals and snags,
But dismal if, at dawn next day,
The police are out with drags.
N.S.W.
CHARON.


THE INFANT PAYS.
Though the tramways are not now paying, Mr. Holman (N.S.W.) announces that fares are not to be increased. There is, however,
to be an increase in probate duties.


THE CIRCUS MULE.


Mr. Storekeeper, Mr. Miller, Mr. Seedsman, are
you aware that Smith’s Ltd. are making calico and
hessian bags suitable your requirements? Smiths
print these bags in any number of colors; they are
anxious to obtain your business; they can save you
money on your bag account; and are anxious to get
in touch with you. They will send you a sample
bag for purposes of comparison, duly printed, if
you so desire. If courteous service and utmost value
at bedrock prices appeal to you, then write to the
“Bag specialists,” T. Smith Ltd., Sussex Street,
Sydney. *
GAE LIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
HATS.
For
QUALITY.
For
DURABILITY.
NABOB BOOT PASTE,
the Waterproof
Boot Polish.
ONE APPLICATION WILL LAST A WEEK, A BRUSH UP
BEING ALL THAT IS NECESSARY IN BETWEEN WHILES.
LEWIS & WHITTY, Makers, Melbourne and Sydney. [i
EVERY DAY^
more people are proving that
is the best washing preparation for
blankets, flannels, woollens and dainty
fabrics. Lux is scientific in its methods.
Lux coaxes rather than forces the dirt
from the clothes. Lux shortens the
work at the washtub —lengthens the
life of the clothes.
WON’T
SHRINK
WOOLLENS.
ZJ
\ 11
JM7 *
<U>
CEVER brothers
limited, svdnev.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
With Harry Levien out of the N.S.W.
Assembly, Solemn Lee, of Tenterfield, will
be the father of the House. He was elected
in October, 18S4, and hasn’t been disturbed
since.
Died at Geraldton (W.A.), aged 60, J. M.
Finnerty, first goldfields warden of Westralia
—a man whose hard common-sense overcame
many difficulties in the early days of Cool-
gardie. His father was a brevet-major and
staff-officer of Imperial pensioners at Fre-
mantle.
OPPOSITION DEPUTY-
LEADER W. H. WOOD
(N.S.W.), defeated on
Saturday.
Passed out in London Lewis H. Berens,
long-time of South Aus., an ardent single-
taxer and advocate of land reform. He wrote
“The Story of My Dictatorship,” a single-
tax argument in dialogue form that has been
translated into many foreign tongues, be-
sides much lighter stuff.
Died, at Hotspur, on the S.A.-Vic. border,
Duncan McEachern, 78, a man who loved a
fight when he was young. He lost several
toes from frostbite in the Crimea, but this
did not keep him from taking a share ill the
American Civil War a little later, and he
drew Uncle Sam’s pension till his death.
Samuel Toombs, who dug Varney Parkes’s
political grave at Hurstville, is a master
mariner, and has for some years been dodg-
ing up and down the coast in various small
packets. If Sam Toombs speaks up for the
sailormen as effectively as did Sam Smith,
whose memory is hallowed in every fo’c’stle
on the coast, he will earn his halo.
J. G. Aikman, M.L.C., the Melbourne
business man who is alleged to have been
systematically robbed by an employee of
£15,000, made a famous spec, when he pur-
chased the R.M.S. Australia, wrecked 20
years ago at Port Phillip Heads. He bought
the marine ruins at auction for a mere
trifle, and aided by smart workmen., fine
weather and smooth seas, he was able to
extract the innards of the stranded liner be-
fore he knocked off work. Estimates as to
his winnings on the deal ranged from £20,000
to £40,000.
Jones, of Paddington, again achieved dis-
tinction at the recent N. S. Wales elections.
With 25 votes, he was, with the exception of
a Belmore candidate who retired at 11.30,
and therefore wasn’t fairly in the competi-
tion, the candidate with the fewest votes
recorded in his favor. The only Jones has
achieved the same distinction several times,
once with three votes ; and the fact that he
has, since then, increased his following by
833 per cent, indicates that if he continues
long enough he may secure a winning num-
ber yet.
If bakers ever appear at the Arbitration
Court and assert, in the fashionable way,
that their occupation is unhealthy, they will
probably be confronted with the record of
James Wardley, presently 92 years young,
and just appointed president of the Victorian
Operative Bakers’ Society. Wardley baked
the daily bread of many Australians for 58
years, and prior to that performed the same
useful work for fellow-countrymen in Eng-
land for 20 years. He is not a teetotaller,
nor is he a non-smoker, and can offer no
explanation for the fact that he is a sur-
vivor from the first days of George IV.
Of course, the Australian can never be a
seaman. It’s not his line, as everybody
knows. Take George A. Whitton, jun. Hav-
ing arrived at the age of 21 the other day,
he wandered up wearily to the examiners
(he had been compelled by the regulations
to wait a considerable time until he reached
his majority) and obtained an extra
master’s certificate. This is the highest dis-
tinction a sailor-man can attain by examina-
tion ; and in honor of the occasion the
owners of the barque Daniel, commanded by
Whitton, sen., brought the “old man”
ashore for a trip and handed the sailing
orders to the youngest skipper trading out
of Port Jackson. It’s all very discouraging.
From the Oldest Inhabitant: —
Apropos “Mad Tom” Davey, Lieutenant-Governor
of Van Diemen’s Land (B. 11/12/’l3). “Mad Tom”
had been a “First Fleeter” at Botany Bay. He was
then a lieutenant of marines under the wrangling
Major Ross, the man who said it would be cheaper
to feed convicts on turtle soup and venison at the
London Tavern than keep them in Botany Bay. Tom
had risen to be a colonel when he was nominated
Lieutenant-Governor. He had seen a good deal oi
service, and had fought at the Battle of Trafalgar.
When his appointment reached him he was a
prisoner for debt in London. The house in which
he was detained, called by some “a sponging house,”
was kept by a Mr. Beaumont, who paid his debts
in order that he might accept the offer. In return
Davey took Beaumont’s son with him, promising to
make a “squire” of him; and he kept his promise.
His favorite Hobart pub, by the way, was the Union,
on the corner of Liverpool and Campbell streets.
Holman’s energy is magnificent. On
Friday night, December 13, having raced
round the suburban constituencies, without
waiting to hear the result of the poll he
started out for Bega. having mapped out a
seven-day tour, talking in Bega, Albury,
Bingara, Tamworth and Goff’s Harbor —it-
self a huge contract. It usually takes two
days to get to Bega; but Holman, with a
strenuous drive in the State motor-car,
reached there on Saturday evening. He
got his reward in being able to announce to
his audience the defeat of W. 11. Wood. The
same night, when the reporters went to look
for Wade, they found that strenuous
politician in the front row of the stalls at a
city theatre.
Of the new men in the N.S.W. Parlia-
mentary Labor party .Tabez Wright, of
Willy ama, is the most experienced by a
long chalk. Wright would probably shock
Willy Holman if ever he got to Government
House and Willy happened to be there too;
but, as a set-off against that, he has had
over 25 years of Labor organising, and was
the first Labor mayor, appointed by a
straight-out party of Labor aldermen, in
N. S. Wales, if not in Australia. That was
at Broken Hill. Jabez, who, though he has
been burying people for quarter-century,
couldn’t spell “cemetery” to save his life,
is, nevertheless, an effective debater; and
the Labor Government which cuts from the
Labor platform is liable to have more
trouble from its new “supporter” than ever
Wade knew how to give it.
PROTECTING THE MALES.
At the meeting of the Mirboo North branch of the A.N.A. several members protested against the
onesidedness of the Bill introduced by Mr. McLachlan in the Assembly, to raise the age of consent to
18 years. It was contended that males should have had some protection. A motion to that effect was
carried. — Argus.
Had Mirboo North been in a position to have a say in the matter , poor Adam would
have had an opportunity of reaching the age of consent before the Fall , and all this trouble
might have been averted.
Mathew Leighton Hutchinson, an old Mel-
bourne bookseller, passed out a few days
back in his 84th year and the 60th year of
his residence in Australia. He started book-
selling in Elizabeth-street, and then bought
out Robert Mackay in Collins-street West,
where he remained some 21 years. After-
wards be moved into Little Collins-street,
where his sons still carry on the business.
MILLS, OF
MILWAUKEE.
A Maoriland
artist's impres-
sion of the Red
Fed. organiser.
The recent political try-out in N. S. Wales
promises one good result: the return of
Percy Colquhoun for Mosman will dim the
spotlight hitherto thrown upon the athletic
pre-eminence of C. G. Wade. Apart from
his Mount Iveinbla performance, Wade’s
claim to athletic distinction rests mainly on
the fact that he was about the first Aus-
tralian to represent Oxford and England in
Rugby union football. Harry Vassall, sen-
ior, whose name is a household word
in English football, has left it on record in
his book on the game that Wade relied
chiefly on his “bumping” abilities for suc-
cess. Colquhoun, on the other hand, was
one of the most skilful and resourceful
“centres” that Australia has produced, with
a knack of saving the situation for his side.
Moreover, he has been a front-ranker in
cricket and lawn tennis, and is one in golf.
Among the burly men in the Senate,
Barnes, of Victoria, is a prominent figure.
Barnes left one good billet, where he had
to work hard, for a better one, where so
far the toil has not been of a nature to
give him corns on the brain. Organiser
first for the A.W.U. in the West Darling
country, and then secretary of the Vdc.-
Riverina branch, he reached the Senate in
spite of a severe handicap. This was the
circulation by the Vic. P.L.C., in tens of
thousands, of a leaflet containing an alleged
portrait of Barnes as one of the “Senate
three.” It represented him as a slim, neat,
small-faced youth of about 20, with a
faint moustache. In the flesh, Barnes is a
broad and upstanding Australian
with a hard and cheerful dial, a
quiet manner and a square jaw—
a fine type of the bushman who is
the salt of the Labor movement in
Australia. Barnes has a large
personal acquaintance with his
own country and his own people,
and is well able to barrack on the public
plutform for both.
Tom Tunnecliffe, who somewhat unexpect-
edly failed to get into the first Vic. Labor
Ministry, was passed over chiefly on account
of the fact that, although his services to
Labor date back into the cobwebbed past,
his actual Parliamentary career has been a
short one. Heaven tempers the wind, how-
ever. Latterly Tunnecliffe has become some-
thing of a bloated landlord, having built
a brace of villas at Gardiner, a semi-ruraj
suburb on Ivooyongkoot Creek, 20 minutes’
rail from the city. This, of course, is much
better than spending his £3OO, like some
Parliamentary Liberals have done in their
time, on various brands of joy; but it gives
Liberalism a chance to ask him, sourly, why
he doesn’t live on £2 a week and give the
balance to a hospital. The Liberal landlord
never did like to see anybody else collecting
rents—any more than the hog likes to share
rations wflth his brother. .
CHRISTMAS RUBAIYAT OF MARY ANN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Wake! for the maid has ta’en her lonely flight
And laid upon this dusty house a blight.
Housekeeping is a curse when Christmas comes
And calls her home with relatives to fight.
Before the shadow of the Christmas goose
She banged about morosely. Said, “Th’ jooce!”
When asked to do the things we paid her for,
And seemed to find her broom of little use. -
The stairs whereon she, working, used to sing
And many a gibe at passing children fling,
Are silent now. For, with her faded box
She scuttled out—a tyrant on the wing.
Lord only knows why at the glad year’s end
She should so want her homeward way to wend,
And part forever from the housewife who
Has only tried to be a paying friend.
Some say she can’t the homely suburbs bear,
And longs to be where boarders beat the air,
And gossip rages through the fainting hours,
And young men lounge with tightly-plastered hair.
Oh! wash the cup and by the fire of gas
Tell not her sins, nor call her fool and ass,
But give her time to spend her little hoard ;
She may return, more treasure to amass.
N.S.W.
J. DISHRAGGE.


The pleasure of your holidays
will be enhanced by taßing with
you a supply of
v ,n - t
WILLS’ 5
I
CAPSTAN
(NavyV
Cut /
CIGARETTES.
Everybody’s F avorite
HTH E particularly satisfying qualities of “CAPSTAN” Cigarettes
are the outcome of skilful blending of specially selected high-
class grades of Virginian Leaf, coupled with perfect manufacture
under ideal conditions. The Aroma and Flavor are distinctive, and
there is no other Cigarette anywhere sold at the same price to
compare with them. New brands are continually being introduced
to endeavor to draw smokers away from “CAPSTANS,” but
without success.-
The renown of “CAPSTAN” Cigarettes in all parts of the
world was gained and is held by their absolute superiority of quality
and manufacture over every other 3d. brand of Cigarette.
For the convenience of smokers, the Manufacturers are
packing this brand in packets of 20, convenient for the pocket.
They can also be obtained in hermetically sealed tins of 50 —a
special packing to keep the Cigarettes in perfect condition in any
climate, or when travelling by sea. Take a tin of “CAPSTAN S”
for the holidays.
W. D. <a H. O. WILLS.


TO STOREKEEPERS
Power Pumps, when we can deliver
Power Pumps,
Why Carrv Large Stocks of Single Cylinder Double Acting
° ne WrUe 6 tons” "fo/priced on ft™ DEANITModeI A., Single Cylinder Double Acting
with Brass-lined Cylinders. . ■.
AGENTS in everv State. If not in stock m your State, apply to
SIMPSON BROTHERS, 32-34 Clarence Street, Sydney.
COUNTRY AGENTS REQUIRED,
Steam Turbines coupled to Dynamos, Alternators, Pumps, Blowers, Fans,e c
The Original Inventors of Parsons' Type.
C. A. PARSONS S CO., Newcastle-on-Tyiw.
HAVE SUPPLIED OVER 60,000 B.H.P. OF TURBINES IN AUSTRALIA ALAINE.
WILLIAM ADAMS (Sb COMPANY LIMITL^
Sydney, Melbourne,
Sole Australasian
Agents—
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Australasian Temperance and
General Mutual Life Assurance Society, Ltd.:—
Ordinary Life Department.
Added to Total
Sept, Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
1901 .. £61,572 £19,909 £21,725 £17,238 £253,865
1902 . . 73,782 18,640 24,559 30,583 284,448
1903 . . 73,983 19,585 28,263 26,135 310,583
1904 . . 79,779 18,302 29,285 32,192 342,775
1905 .. 89,738 18,894 36,071 34,773 377,548
1906 . . 98,666 21,026 38,925 38,7,15 416,263
1907 .. 108,447 21,451 39,616 47,380 463,643
1908 . . 130,384 29,470 44,751 56,163 519,806
1909 .. 160,946 44,733 49,412 66,801 586,607
1910 . . 177,578 40,810 53,658 83,110 669,717
1911 . . 189,794 31,236 52,071 106,487 776,204
1912 . . 203,467 32,286 63,938 107,,243 883,447
1913 .. 224,252 33,752 75,588 114,912 998,359
Industrial Life Department.
Added to Total
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
1901 .. £40,198 £26,938 £7,724 £5,536 £24,812
1902 . . 53,597 35,444 8,294 9,859 34,671
1903 . . 69,547 46,230 8,925 14,392 49,063
1904 . . 82,742 48,595 13,365 20,782 69,845
1905 .. 103,499 54,761 14,213 34,525 104,370
1906 . . 118,433 58,833 16,444 43,156 147,526
1907 . . 124,703 52,289 16,129 56,285 203,811
1908 . . 134,723 64,402 22,320 48,001 251,812
1909 . . 145,757 64,954 34,189 46,614 298,426
1910 .. 155,333 59,359 40,129 55,845 354,271
1911 . . 170,358 61,002 50,537 58,819 413,090
1912 . . 194,650 71,308 56,505 66,837 479,927
1913 . . 234,465 84,420 104,245 45,800 525,727
Accident Branch.
Added to Total
Sent., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
1907 .. £2477 £1092 £1177 £2OB £2OB
1908 .. 3345 1785 1474 86 294
Taken from
Funds.
1909 .. 3849 2311 1542 4 290
Added to
Funds.
1910 .. 4218 2814 1310 94 384
Taken from
Funds.
1911 .. 4751 3286 1474 9 375
1912 .. 4678 2891 1803 16 359
1913 .. 4563 3297 1286 20 339
This office has been making rapid progress during
the last few years, and the movement is all the
more remarkable because it had made hardly any
at all for very many years previously. The manage-
ment in the old days was tremendously respectable,
and still more tremendously stodgy. In these days
it adds hustle to its respectability, and goes in for
making the best display of its stock. Take the
rapid growth of income, for instance, in both the
life departments. Insurance policies may be roughly
divided into two classes —(1) those that don’t
mature till the death of the policy-holder (life
policies) ; (2) those that are payable at a given age
or earlier death (endowment policies). The life
policy is the truer insurance instrument; it is, in
fact, the only one with which the young married
man or the young man who hopes soon to be married
should have any truck, presuming that he is a person
of small means. But, though the life policy is the
truer insurance instrument, an endowment policy of
the same size brings in more money to the insurance
office. The endowment premiums are necessarily
larger, because there are fewer of them; moreover,
the canvasser can make an appeal to the selfishness
of the man he is angling for; and, finally, it is
quite legitimate to take for a short-term endowment
a life that is much too poor for a whole-life policy.
One way and another, therefore, though endowment
business is poorer insurance than the other, it is easier
to get; and, consequently, it is easier to pile up an
income by specialising in that than in the other
sort. And the Temperance and General has special-
ised in that sort. These figures show the various
kinds of policies existing in 1910 and 1913 in the
Ordinary department:—
1910. 1913. Increase.
Whole life .. . . 2,943 3,018 75
Endowment insurance . . 15,087 17,883 2796
Endowments . . . . 16,172 19,346 3174
.Thus while the T. and G. has only 75 more whole-
life policies than it had three years ago, it has 5970
more endowment and endowment insurance policies.
Endowments considerably exceed the other sort in
the Industrial department also.
But while it is possible to make a better show by
specialising in endowment business, it is exceedingly
. improbable that a society which does this will get
- the best advantage from the fine mortality experi-
ence of Australian offices. In other words, the
. smaller the proportion of whole-life business an Aus-
tralian office does, the poorer will its bonuses be,
, other things being equal. Bonuses come from three
.sources: (1) better interest earnings than those
. assumed when the premium tables were drafted; (2)
■ lower expenses than were assumed when the tables
. were drafted; (3) a longer average life than it was
. assumed that the policy-holders would live. But
obviously the Australian’s longevity is of no advan-
tage to the T. and G. if it has paid him out at 45
. or 55 or 60 under an endowment policy. The office
which has issued an endowment payable at 60 to a
man of 30 can’t get more than 30 premiums, whereas
the Australian office which issues a whole-life policy
at 30, expecting a man to live then years, may
easily go on getting extra premiums from him for
10 or 15 years ; and those extra premiums all mean
, extra bonuses for the whole body of shareholders.
There were doubts once about some of the T. and
■ Ul.’s tables of premiums. It was believed that they
were less than they ought to be; in plain language,
it was doubted whether the society could pay what
it had undertaken to pay. There probably are actu-
aries who wouldn’t feel comfortable if they had to
work on those tables even now; still there is no
doubt that the position has improved. For one
thing, the expense rate is much better than it used
to be, especially in the Industrial department; and
it was the Industrial tables especially that were
under suspicion. Here are some figures: —
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
Sept., Ordinary. Industrial. Accident.
1901 . . £32 3 7 p.c. £67 0 3 p.c.
1902 .. 25 5 3 „ 66 2 7 „
1903 .. 26 9 5 „ 66 9 5 „
1904 .. 22 18 10 „ 58 14 7 „
1905 .. 21 1 1 „ 52 18 2 „
1906 .. 21 6 3 „ 49 13 7 „
1907 .. 19 15 7 „ 41 18 7 „ £44 1 8 p.c.
1908 .. 22 12 0 „ 47 16 1 „ 53 7 3 „
1909 . . 27 15 9 ~ 44 11 3 „ 58 10 5 „
1910 . . 22 19 7 „ 38 4 4 „ 66 14 3 „
1911 .. 16 9 2 „ 35 16 2 „ 69 3 3 „
1912 .. 15 17 4 „ 36 12 8 „ 61 16 0 „
1913 .. 15 1 0 „ 36 0 1 „ 72 5 1 „
Barring the Accident branch, the figures are really
very good, because the new business is very solid;
and it is new business that runs away with the
money. On any accepted basis of calculation, the
Ordinary new business is now costing well under 75
p.c. of the first-year’s premiums, which is a very
excellent performance indeed. The one qualification
that must be made is that this co. does not appar-
ently include all its rates and taxes among its ex-
penses, but deducts some of them from its income
from property ; and this, while reducing the rate of
interest earnings, cuts a bit also off the expense rate.
Still, making allowance for that, the expense rates
have been improved almost out of recognition. They
are now almost as respectable as the old officials
used to be. Probably, if it came to choosing, the
policy-holders would rather have respectable accounts
than respectable accountants. The figures in the
Accident department are still, however, ghastly.
And things have been helped also by the improve-
ment in the interest earnings:—
]906 .. £4 9 1 p.c. | 1910 ..£4 10 6 p.c.
1907 ~4 9 2,, I 1911 . . 410 9 „
1908 .. 4 9 7 „ I 1912 .. 411 0 „
1909 . . 410 3 „ | 1913 .. 411 6 „
The insurance funds now amount to £1,524,425, and
every shilling per cent, more earned on that lot is
another £750. Of the total assets, public (including
municipal) securities represent a moderate 36 p.c.,
mortgage loans 36 p.c., and freeholds 12* p.c.
Apparently a pretty fair lot, though there is too
much money in property.
The society has_ had its annual actuarial valuation.
In the Ordinary 'department there is a surplus of
£35,256, of which £21,280 is distributable = 11.8
p.c. of the year’s premium income. In the Industrial
department a small amount is available also for
reversionary addition to policies in force five years
or over. The mortality experience is reported to be
highly favorable, especially in the Temperance sec-
tion. The figures are certainly striking:—
Expected Actual Per-
Claims. Claims. centage.
Temperance.. ..£54,083 £25,498 4/1
General .. •• 30,739 21,562 70.1
But that isn’t conclusive, of course; what one also
wants to know is whether there was the same P r °P or ‘
tion of (say) miners in the two sections. It the
Temperance section consists mostly of parsons, who
don’t risk their lives to any great extent, it plainly
isn’t a fair thing to compare the result with that
achieved by a section which abounds in men who do
risk their lives.
The Australian Provincial Assurance
Association Ltd. (Sydney).— This co of which at least
three prospectuses have been issued, began business
on March 23, 1912. None of the prospectuses are
Hatod • but according to what seems to be the sec-
ond the authorised capital is £lOO,OOO in 200,000
shares of 10s. each. Originally 100 000 shares were
offered for subscription, 10,000 fully paid and
£lOOO cash went to the promoter, and 90,000 were
held in reserve. According to a subsequent pro-
spectus, issued some time this year 40,000 were
then offered in Queensland and 40,000 we F e ,, held in
reserve; it isn’t plain what is to become of the other
10 000, unless the promoter takes them too. Accord-
ing to the accounts now published, covering the
period from March 23, 1912 to October 31, 1913
8253 fully paid shares have been issued and 93,69,4
contributing shares; but the allotment money has
not been paid on all the shares. The paid capital on
October 31 was £25,218. Of this money the co
still held as at that date £8876. The other £16,342
is accounted for as follows: —
Preliminary expenses .. •• £ 6.448
Excess outgoings over revenue . . 9,894
Total . . • • £16,342
The position is even then not made clear. Pre-
liminary exes, are set down at £8059, less £l6ll
written off =£6448. But it is not plain whether
that £8059 includes the whole amount payable to
the promoter. It is also not clear whether the pre-
liminary exes, are the expenses of getting business
or of selling shares, or both. The prospectus —one
of the numerous prospectuses —said that an agree-
ment had been made whereby Benjamin Fowler Smith
“agrees to pay all preliminary costs, including adver-
tising, legal expenses, printing, stationery and post-
age down to the date on which the Association com-
menced business, except brokerage and underwriting
commission,” in consideration of the 10,000
shares and £lOOO cash before mentioned. The direc-
tors, according to prospectus No. 1, could
proceed to allotment on receiving applications for
2000 shares, and “commence business.” Thereafter
the co. would bear all the expense of forming the
co. The promoter, in return for his 10,000 shares
and £lOOO cash, was not therefore under any obliga-
tion to do very much. The Bulletin _is
unable to find any services he performed which
should entitle him to anything.
Anyhow, this is the position at present. The
paid capital is £25,218, and at the end of the first
period—the “annual report” covers 19 months —■
there is £8876 left; and part of that is in pre-
miums outstanding (which the co. may or may not
collect) and “bills receivable” (what is the co. doing
with bills at this time of its life?) and stationery
(which probably has no value apart from the busi-
ness). But let it be understood that the co. hasn’t
got £8876 net. Against that it has numerous policy
contracts. It says it has issued policies assuring
£251,300, and is very proud of the performance.
Big policy figures are pleasant, no doubt; but big
r-olicv figures mean big policy liabilities. So the
position is that this co. has issued policies on
which, on maturity, it has undertaken to pay
£251,300, and it has £8876 towards meeting its
obligations. This paper isn’t, however, sure whether
the co. knows much about such things as the valua-
tion of liabilities. It has directors and local direc-
tors and provisional 'directors and managers and other
officers galore, but neither the prospectuses nor
the present accounts mention such a person as an
actuary. Who produced the tables under which this
co. is working? Who certifies that the premiums
charged will meet the policy obligations? Do the
directors know what they ought to have in hand at
the end of any particular term? What is their
assumed rate of interest?
The Bulletit doesn’t expect an insurance office to
show good figurtes at the end of a year, or even two
years. The cost of getting the thing established is
always heavy, a,nd this paper doesn’t expect the first
year’s premium). to pay the first year’s outgoings.
But it likes to see some method about a new con-
cern ; it likes to have some sort of assurance that
the new co. knows just where it is. And it doesn’t
get that assurance in' this case. Everything in con-
nection with the concern is sloppy, and almost every-
thing is unsatisfactory. The absence of any men-
tion of an actuary is one instance. If, as seems
highly probable, this co. has started without an
actuary to guide it, then the sooner the law prevents
a recurrence of it the better. The law will not
allow a ship to go to sea without a man who knows
something about navigation, and it should not allow
an insurance concern to put to sea either. True,
one takes life with it, and the other doesn’t; but it
takes the money which neople are putting by to see
them through their old age, or to feed their widows
and children when they are dead. This co. may, of
course, have an actuary, and the tables on which it
is working may be certified to by him, and his eye
may be upon the whole proceedings; but when he
isn’t mentioned, and such persons as business super-
visors and organising managers and district man-
agers are mentioned, it seems fair to assume that
he doesn’t exist. An'd until he does exist, and his
existence is made known, the insuring public ought
to know what to do with the Australian Provincial
Assurance Association, Ltd.
The National Bank of Tasmania
(Launceston, Tas.) :
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Nov., 1905. .5752 6 p.c. = 4789 963 34,333
May, 1906.. 5696 6 „ „ 4789 1000 34,240
Nov., 1906.. 6249 6 „ „ 4789 1460 35,700
May, 1907.. 9077 7 „ „ 5587 3490 39,190
Nov., 1907.. 8570 7 „ „ 5587 1000 1983 41,173
May, 1908.. 8793 7 „ „ 5587 1000 2206 43,379
Nov., 1908.. 8464 7 „ ~ 5587 2877 46,256
May, 1909.. 8288 7 „ „ 5587 2701 48,957
Nov., 1909 .. 7647 7 ~,,5654 1993 50,950
May, 1910.. 8115 7 „ „ 5654 2461 53,411
Nov., 1910.. 8058 7 ~ „ 5654 2404 55,815
May, 1911.. 8127 7 ~ ~ 5587 2540 58,355
Nov., 1911. 7110 7 „ ~ 5587 1523 59,878
May, 1912.. 8828 7 ~ „ 5587 1000 2241 62,119
Nov., 1912.. 7906 7 „ „ 5587 2319 64,438
May, 1913 . .8656 7 „ „ 5587 3069 67,507
Nov., 1913..8702 7 „ „ 5587 1500 1675 69,182
This little bank’s figures haven’t been affected much
by the stringency in the money market and the other
financial troubles that the world has had lately. In
the past 12 months its deposits, both free and fixed,
have moved up a trifle; and it has let out a little
more money ; and it has a few more pounds in liquid
assets in its till. It doesn’t ask for deposits outside
Tasmania, and it has no branches away from its own
small island; and the Balkan situation isn’t of
nearly so much importance to it as the price of
potatoes.
As mentioned just now, there has been a small
increase in almost every line during the past 12
months:—-
N0v.,’12. N0v.,’13.
Notes in circulation £6,012 £4,998 Dec. £1,014
Bills, etc 14,833 21,501 Inc. 6,668
Deposits at interest . . 316,427 328,004 Inc. 11,577
Free deposits.. .. 324,947 333,765 Inc. 8,818
Liquid assets.. .. 190,403 199,007 Inc. 8,604
Advances . . . . 665,609 689,371 Inc. 23,762
Premises, etc. . . 28,272 28,199 Dec. 73
Add up the liabilities of all sorts and you will find
that the bank owes £688,268, while its own funds
(capital and reserves) amount to £221,222. So of
other people’s money in the business it has very little
more than £3 for every £1 of its own. This is a
very small proportion of liabilities; and that is
another way of saying that the public’s money is
unusually well protected. There are many banks
in which £1 of shareholders’ money has to protect
anything from £6 to £8 of the public’s. The weak
point lies in the comparatively small amount of
assets held liquid. On current account alone the
bank has £333,765; yet though this money may
presumably be called for at any time, the liquid
assets (coin, cash balances and Australian notes)
amount to only £199,007. Under 30 p.c. of the
total liabilities could be met without realising on
something or calling up overdrafts, etc. ; and it isn’t
enough, especially in such times as these, when the
most serious things are liable to happen the most
suddenly.
The interest earnings calculated on capital and
reserves combined are very fair: —
May, 1909.. £8 7 2p.c.iNov., 1911. . £6 15 2p.c.
Nov., 1909.. 7 12 2 „ May, 1912.. 8 6 7 „
May., 1910.. 7 19 11 „ Nov., 1912.. 7 7 8 „
Nov., 1910.. 7 16 10 „ May, 1913.. 7 19 11 „
May, 1911.. ,7 16 4 ~ Nov, 1913.. 7 19 8 „
Doubtless the fact that the bank has so small a hold-
ing of bullion, etc., helps the profits; all the same,
the bank which keeps a larger sum liquid, and thus
holds itself in readiness to assist customers in a
crisis, is likely to do better in the long run. Whether
the Tasmanian thinks much of the matter yet Thf.
Bulletin doesn’t know; but in other places, any-
how, the customer begins to suspect the bank which
trades to the last possible sixpence in good. times,
and then has to call in overdrafts in dull times in
order to keep its own position sound.
The Marshall Shoe Co. (Melb.) took
over a boot-manufacturing business established four
years previously. The deficit to start with was made
up this way: Goodwill, £7500; preliminary exes.,
£892; total, £8392. Less renewal and contin-
gencies reserves, £5320. Net deficit, £3072. Sub-
sequent history follows: —
Towards De-
Profits. Dividends. Reserves, ficit.
July, 1911.. £3,072
Reserves.
June, 1912. . £15,029 8 p.c. = £*6367 £8662 5,590
June, 1913.. 14,475 8 „ „ 9416 5059 10,649
The capital is £121,500, in 24,000 8 p.c. cum. pref.
£1 shares and 97,500 Ordinary £1 shares, all fully
paid. For the goodwill of the business, as shown
above, £7500 was paid, in shares. -The goodwill—a
paper asset, of course —is now being written off. In
the foregoing table it has not been regarded as an
asset, the reserves as shown above being made up as
follows: —
Plant renewal account ..£13,000
Reserve fund . . . . • . 1,500
Unappropriated profit. . , . 1,149
Total reserves . . . . £15,649
Less intangible assets.. •• 5,000
Net reserves . . . . £10,649
If anything, that rather paints the lily. For this
reason: Instead of writing down the value of the
plant, the directors are building up a renewal fund,
and that fund is included with reserves. Hence part
at any rate of the reserves represents actual deprecia-
tion. For instance, if 7+ p.c. should be written off
plant, fittings and rolling stock to represent the
year’s wear and tear, then the actual profit in the
last 12 months was £11,398 instead of £14,475,
and the reserves are less than £10,649 by the amount
by which the plant, etc., has depreciated since the co.
took it over. The Bulletin doesn’t know for certain
whether 7 h p.c. is a fair thing to write
off for wear and tear; for no two plants
wear out or become obsolete at exactly the same
rate. Twenty per cent, isn’t too big an annual
charge in some cases. In this instance, how-
ever, 7$ p.c. all round is probably quite enough.
This would still leave the co. with a profit for the
past year of £1982 in excess of the 8 p.c. dividend,
which is a fair margin, though nothing at all out of
the way considering the country’s prosperity, and the
fact that it is very much easier to buy boots when you
are borrowing money than it is when you have
“blewed” all the borrowed money and are struggling
to pay the wretched interest.
When the dull time comes this co. will, at any
rate, have the advantage of having precious little
debt of its own to pay interest on —-assuming, of
course, that the present policy is maintained. On
all accounts its liabilities at the end of its year were
onlv £10,090, and most of that was represented by
ordinary trade debts. Better still, close on £lO,OOO
has been added to the plant and about £6OOO to
the freehold premises, etc., during the year without
going to the bank, the trick being done partly by
getting in some unpaid balances on shares and partly
by reducing stocks. The latter, however, still stand
at £48,041. Further, there isn’t, as far as this paper
is aware, any contingent liability represented by roy-
alty payable on plant. Marshall’s is one of the very
few factories in Australia which are free from the
Shoe Trust —the American concern which charges the
manufacturer for installing plant and then collects
a thumping royalty on its use: in some cases it is
alleged that the installation fee plus the first year’s
royalty is actually greater than the original cost of
the machine. A while ago Marshall’s was completely
free of the Trust, and presumably it is so still; and
that ought to be a fact of much consequence when
dull times come and competition is keener than it has
been in these latter days when the trouble has been
not to find buyers but to get operatives to turn out
the goods fast enough.
The Dubbo Co-operative Flour Milling
Co., Ltd. (Dubbo, N.S.W.)
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Sept., £ £ £ £ £
1907.. 7032 Hi p.c.=1310 1597 4125 10,301
1908.. 1020 7\ „ „ 854 465 10,002
1909.. 458 5 „ „ 509 9,891
Loss.
1910.. 562 5 „ „ 569 8,760
1911.. 41 442 8,277
Profit.
1912.. 2557 7} p.c.= 854 1371 332 8,609
1913.. 802 5 „ „ 569 233 8,842
Milling—country milling particularly—is partly a
business, and largely a gamble. The miller to make
sure of his supplies mostly has to buy early; and
sometimes that means profit, but often it means loss.
If the wheat market improves after the harvest, then
flour moves up to more or less correspond, and the
miller is in clover ; if the other thing happens he is
in the soup. For the past few years he has been
oftener in the soup than in the other place. How-
ever, unless he is very green at the game, he knows
what a tricky sort,of business he is in; so when he
makes his punch he puts by most of it, and simply
draws on his funds when the market goes against
him, and prays that the funds will hold out and see
him through. This co.’s paid capital is £11,389,
and in spite of numerous poor years there are still
reserves of £8842, so shareholders can stand a
bump or two yet. And quite likely they won’t have
to stand a bump this year; anyhow, the market for
new wheat has opened low enough, and though of
course it may go lower there is plenty of room for
it to move upwards. As at September 30 the co.
owed the bank £4782 ; but probably what it owes in
September isn’t much of a guide to what it owes
in February' or March, after it has done most of its
year’s buying. For an elderly lady with a weak
heart and no experience in the vagaries of wheat-
growing and wheat-dealing, The Bulletin wouldn't
advise investment in a milling co. But for a man
who likes a little excitement with his money-making,
there are worse things to consider, though it is cer-
tainly probable that he will find better profits await-
ing equal risks elsewhere.
The Coastal Farmers’ Co-operative
Society, Ltd. (Sydney) :
Bonus
Net to Con- To Re- Re-
Mar. Profits. Dividends, signors, serves, serves.
1902 ..£1,528 6 p.c.= £lO4 £1,262 £162 £4lB
1903 . . 2,957 0 „ „ 253 2,583 121 539
1904 2,778 6 ~ „ 320 2,147 311 850
1905 .. 4,958 6 „ „ 368 4,188 402 1252
1906 . . 4,206 6 ~ „ 432 4,126 900
1907 .. 4,352 6 „ „ 479 3,873 900
1908 . . 8,010 6 ~ ~ 535 7,285 190 1090
1909 .. 9,924 6 „ „ 704 9,186 34 1124
1910 . . 10,144 6 ~ „ 865 10,403
1911 . . 9,221 6 „ „ 946 8,244 31 31
1912 12,667 6 ~ ~ 1032 11,571 64 95
1913 . . 17,718 6 „ „ 1222 14,948 1548 1643
1913" .. 5,700 - 5700 7343
For the past half-year £lBOl of profit has been made
and transferred to a special reserve; but as this is
probably some kind of a suspense fund, it has not
been taken into the foregoing table. Dividends and
bonuses are appropriated after the annual balance in
March. Profits have shrunk a trifle, notwithstanding
a heavier turnover; lower prices (and therefore
smaller commission earnings) are no doubt responsi-
ble. The directors report that, under instructions
from a conference instigated by North Coast fac-
tories, a committee is drafting a scheme for the
amalgamation of the two butter-distributing cos. in
N. S. Wales. This is a good move, even if it isn’t
a very new one—for it isn’t the first time amalga-
mation between the Coastal Farmers and the Berrima
cos. has been proposed. Of the two cos. one is
wholly a co-operative distributor ; the other is mainly
a distributor, though it does a bit of manufacturing
as a side-line. So far as the distributing businesses
are concerned, they ought to be amalgamated, and
the factories are the right people to insist on it, for
it is either they or the public—their who
must pav for the quite unnecessary duplication of
offices and staffs. The Berrima’s factories may be a
small obstacle to amalgamation of the two businesses
as they stand ; but it should be quite a small matter
to transfer them to a separate manufacturing co. A
way will be found all right if the co-operative fac-
tories insist.
The Coastal Farmers’ report mentions also that
general-manager Meares has been sent to Canada
and the US. “to obtain first-hand information re ;
garding prospects of introducing N. S. Wales butters.
It is a good idea. For some reason or other Uncle
Sam doesn’t know how to make butter; and even m
Canada the grease is generally of poor quality ana
anything over 40 cents (Is. Bd.) per lb. Mo (“ ve ;
in view of the tremendously increased production ol
margarine in England, and the serious effect it is. hkeiy
to have on the demand there for Australian butter,
new market may come in very handy. I rue, in me
long run, if the quality is kept up, butter may_wm
even in England. Its best hope lies in the probabiliti
that, as the output grows and factories multiply, tne
quality of margarine will deteriorate—anyhow, mac
the quality of some of it will deteriorate. Jo far its
sales have been boomed because medical officers nav
certified to its purity. Once it becomes
it isn’t all pure, and that some of it hasn t much
food-value, the real article will probably be callea
for once more by of people who ar
content with the substitute. But until England g •
back to the old love, it will be a great thing
Meares can establish business relations with uncie
Sam. * * *
The Young Co-operative Flour Milling
Co. (N.S.W.);— „
Written To Re- R e_
Profit. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1902. . 16,757 10 p.c.= 1500 566 14,691 21,12(5
1903.. L Boi 10 ~,,1500 417 18 > 40S
1904.. 2™45 15 „ „ 2250 503
Loss.
1905.. 63 7i „ „ 1125 391 - 16 ’ J4i
Profit- 17 082
1906.. 2,032 10 „ „ 1500 371 161 >
1907.. 6,771 25 „ „ 3750 362 2,659
1908.. 3,877 20 ~,,3000 349 528 20,^
1909.. 11,687 30 „ „ 4500 6io 6,0 - J 1 * 7gl
£15,000 transferred to capital •• ’
Loss. n 329
1910.. 2,308 5 p.C.= 1500 644 gg;
1911. . 629 5 ~ ~ 1500 313
1912.. M6l 7* „ „ 2250 481 2,920 7,807
1913.. 2,333 7i „ „ 2250 4jB „ the
“The year has been a difficult one for mi Values
directors say, “owing to the fact t ' " e j n lies the
of breadstuffs were not maintained. before
gamble. If the country miller doesn t nuy
the wheat reaches Sydney *** to p he gets
and that means a bit added to tne .pn ■ pai( j a
in early and chances a fall. n ' s ). sag ged, and
fairly high price; then the wheat figure as
competition forced him to sell at things don’t
the luckier ones who paid less. StiU ni g
always turn out like that; the •'’h®? o(fal mo ve
up as well as down, and flour and mi , year
with it. Even with the dull market i capl .
shareholders have nothing to complain ot. gf
tal is £30,000. of which only £15,000 cum
their pockets (the rest was a bonus) , - the
7* pi is really a 15 p.c dividend- in ,
current year new plant worth £ooo


A great mistake, when erecting new works or re-
arranging old ones, is often made in constructing the
building and installing machinery ere looking round
for means of transport of the raw material, half-
manufactured and finished goods. Messrs. Adolf
Bleichert and Co., of London, have issued various
catalogues and leaflets, illustrating and describing a
few of the many transport systems and plants which
they have supplied, and which show the solution of
the transport question and the advantages of em-
ploying such appliances. W. and J. Lempriere,
Melbourne and Sydney, are the Australian representa-
tives, and would be pleased to hear from those in-
terested. A specially trained engineer is retained to
consult and advise.*
Mine managers and engineers contemplating Re-
inforced concrete construction should write for par-
ticulars of the Indented Steel Bar, which gives the
greatest bond, and is the strongest and cheapest re-
inforcement on the market. Used by the N. S.
Wales and Queensland railways for bridges, by the
Sydney Water and Sewerage Board for elevated re-
servoirs, by the N. S. Wales Government Architect,
and by all the leading architects. Should guaranteed
designs be required for concrete structures, our ex-
pert will be pleased to furnish plans and descrip-
tions. Apply, Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.*
For rapid and accurate sizing of samples, the
Hoover Rapid Laboratory Sizer is unsurpassed. An
ordinary hand test over 12 different mesh screens
takes about 10 hours to complete, the Hoover Sizer
will make the same test in about half an hour. By
the use of one of these Sizers the saving in time
would, in a very short while, cover the small initial
cost of the machine. The machine can be dressed
with any series of screens. The Austral Otis Eng.
Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, will be pleased to furnish
particulars.* [4
Extract from The Insurance Record, London, Sep-
tember 22, 1911: “To have written insurances for
£5,550,000 (Ordinary, Industrial and Accident) in
a year which was marked by the keenest competition
from beginning to end, is an achievement which
proves that the Colonial Mutual is a force to be
reckoned with in every sphere to which its influence
extends.”*
PIONEER WOOD PIPE is the pressure pipe to
use where conditions are severe, hence its suitability
to mine service. Wood pipe neither rusts nor cor-
rodes. Particulars from The Australian Wood Pipe
Co. Ltd., 57 York Street, Sydney (Head Office).*
The Goulburn Municipal Council, after exhaustive
inquiries, have decided to install two 128 B.H.P.
“Hornsby” Suction Gas Engines and Plants, as the
motive power for their electric supply (in competi-
tion with all classes of engines and boilers), thus
following the example set by a number of towns in
Australasia and other parts of the world, which have
already installed the “Hornsby,” with highly favor-
able results. Intending purchasers of motive power
should apply to R. HORNSBY & SONS, LTD., Sid-
ney, Melbourne and Brisbane.*
* * * *
LARGE CAPITAL AVAILABLE.—Good mining
properties. Industrials. Patents. Properties in-
spected and business propositions investigated in any
part of Commonwealth and abroad. Reply with par-
ticulars to Private Box No. 49, General Post Office,
Melbourne.*
The highest returns for all kinds of residues are
obtained from Harringtons Ltd. of 386 George
Street, Sydney, who buy large or small quantities of
jewellers’ sweeps, polishings, handwash and lemel,
process workers’ residues, plating baths and any
other materials containing gold, silver or platinum.
Assays are executed for jewellers within two or three
hours, and prospectors and others are assured of
immediate attention. All kinds of analytical and
metallurgical work can be executed promptly and
advice given on all branches of industrial chemistry
and metallurgy. The whole of the work is directed
by a qualified analyst and metallurgist from Johnson
and Sons, London, Assayers and Refiners to the Bank
of England, lI.M. Mint, the Council of India, etc.,
and who are acting as London agents for Harring-
tons Ltd. for the treatment of large parcels of
sweeps, residues, ores, etc. Direct shipment of such
lots can be arranged.*
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.*
Water-Supply engineers will be interested to learn
that further evidence proving the durability of W. I.
and Steel Pipes when coated by the Asphaltum pro-
cess, has just been obtained by the engineers of the
Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works. Certain
alterations were made to the main which supplies the
City of South Melbourne with water, and consequently
some pipes were taken up. These pipes were made in the
year 1889, and were coated with Asphaltum composi-
tion in the usual way, and they were laid in ground
that was particularly unfavorable to the preservation
of any unprotected metal, being originally swampy
land, containing much vegetable matter, and filled
with tidal dredgings. On examination, these 24-year-
old pipes were found to be in an excellent state of
preservation, and the Board's engineers were so satis-
fied with their condition that they decided to use
them again. They were, therefore, removed to tht?
works of Messrs. Mephan Ferguson Proprietary Lim-
ited, at Footscray, Victoria, where these 24-year-old
pipes were cleaned, retested, and recoated with
Asphaltum composition in a new and improved pro-
cess. They are now being relaid in a position where
they will have to withstand a working pressure of
1351 b. to the square inch. That the Asphaltum pro-
cess for coating pipes is rust-proof and thoroughly
efficacious is proved by the foregoing.*
H.M.A.S. Australia, now in Australian waters,
is fitted entirely with Babcock and Wilcox Water-
tube Boilers, similar to the H.M.S. New Zea-
land and other Dreadnoughts recently built for the
Admiralty.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Coluison & Co.. 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
Assayers, Mine Managers and Prospectors write
to H. B. Silberbeug and Co.. Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, and at Melbourne, for particulars concerning
mining requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s
disc pulverisers to 200 mesh ; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain ; prospectors’ balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles ; chemicals; etc.*
The Pacific Cable Board
REST ROUTE TO GBE £T ®&ITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, GERMANY, etc.
New Direct Cable to Auckland from Board’s
Sydney Office opened December, 191--
A Week End rate is now available between
Great Britain and Australasia. Rate 9d. per
word with minimum of 18s. (24 words).
Week End Cable Letters are accepted up to
midnight on Saturday for delivery in Great
Britain on the following Tuesday morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “VIA PACIFIC.”
Ordinary.
. . 3/-
.. 3/-
.. -/4i
. . 2/4
Daily.
Deferred.
1/6
1/6
1/2
Great Britain . .
Germany
New Zealand ..
Canada
U-S.A •• ••
Argentine, Brazil, L
Chili and Peru 1
West Indies, Central
rates on application. w .
Cable Forms, Deferred and Week
Regulations may be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. Cityl346 (3dines).
408 Collins Street, Melbourne. Tel. 258&.
J. MILWAKD. Manager s m the Pacific^
2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 1/4
5/8* 2/10}
America and other
End'
WISE
MANAGERS
ALWAYS ORDER
DUNLOP
MINING & ENGINEERING
€5 O& S
THEY KNOW WHAT “DUNLOP" QUALITY
MEANS-GOOD SERVICE AND SATISFACTION.
Samples and Tenders Submitted. Lists on Application
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
Melbourne, Sydney. Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, Wellington
. and Christchurch.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobcl
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
and with this the co. hopes to make a steady saving in
running costs, as well as an improvement in the
output. But, of course, it won’t lessen the gamble
connected with wheat-buying. Liquid assets (mostly
stock) stand in the books at £23,545, and plant,
buildings, etc., have been steadily written down to
£17,110; against that there are liabilities of £795.
So the position in that respect is excellent, though,
doubtless, when the season’s buying is done, the
bank account won’t be in credit, as it was for a
small amount at the end of November.
It is admitted now that the last lot of
£2,000,000 borrowed by the N. S. Wales Govern-
ment cost no less than £4 19s. sd. p.c.—or some-
thing well over 5 p.c. when etceteras never charged
against an issue are taken into account. The rail-
ways and tramways are the most profitable large
business undertakings of the State; yet even these
can’t show 5 p.c. Last year the railways gave
£3 15s. 2d. p.c., and the tramways £2 18s. lOd.
p.c.; and that, of course, included the returns from
the most profitable lines, the revenue of which was
boomed by the exceptional traffic resulting from the
Government’s big borrowing. It is quite safe, there-
fore, to say that there is not in view a single new
undertaking which can earn as much interest as the
Government has to pay for money at present; and
there are only two ways to make up the deficit —by
borrowing (which is dishonest, seeing that we should
be borrowing to pay interest) and by increasing the
people’s taxes. The Treasurer, making the best
defence he can, says that others are paying as much
as we are. But that is no answer at all. The ques-
tion is, even if borrowing is sometimes justified,
what sort of a fool is he who borrows at a time
when money is exceptionally dear? And the answer:
Exactly the same sort., as the indigent person
who chooses the time when strawberries are half-a-
sovereign a pound to buy those vegetables.
8., M. & Co. have taken on the tough con-
tract of general-managing Great Cobar, and George
Klug leaves for the mine this week.
Pellew Harvey, the engineer on the Great
Cobar Board who visited the mine lately, re-
ported to his co-directors that a change in manage-
ment was necessary. Bellenger had decided to quit in
any case. He made a fatal mistake at the outset:
probably not to give the shareholders too great a
shock, he didn’t write Kendall’s extravagant state-
ments down low enough, and held out hopes which
it has been utterly impossible to realise. And when
at the last meeting in London he was present and
didn’t make good, his cake was dough. London
directors like a manager who can talk prettily to
the shareholders now and then. Bellenger quite
unexpectedly was on that occasion like a sheep led
to the slaughter.
The overloaded Adelong Gold Estates
(N.S.W.), in which Melbourne heavyweights have
put more money than they care to think about, made
a loss of £2256 last half-year. Practically every
ounce of gold won cost £2 more than it was worth.
The co. is making heavy weather under a debt
(mostly debentures) of over £20,000, and there is
considerable outlay ahead in alterations to the dredg-
ing plant. The ground is poor—l.l2gr. per yard—-
and it will take mighty fine work to get down to 3d.
a yard, which must be done to show any profit at
all, unless the recovery is improved.
» * * *
Surprising items from a White Crystal,
Ardlethan, report, as published in the S. M. Herald
of 10th inst.: “Started to crosscut east Crossby’s sec-
tion, underlay still in hand mineralised country....A
most up-to-date and complete place for this mine
has been purchased at Macdon, Victoria. Share-
holders in the Carpathia and Wild Cherry mines will
be pleased.” Most people have heard, now and
again, of a gold reef being “hand mineralised” for
the benefit of prospective buyers, but to secure this
state of affairs with regard to “country” in a tin
show seems sheer waste of time. Then, again, surely
it is an error of judgment to purchase an “up-to-
date and complete place” for the mine at a spot like
“Macdon, Victoria.” Why go to the expense of shift-
ing the whole show all that distance when there are
plenty of splendid sites available nearer home ? Still,
it is reassuring to learn that “the shareholders in
the Carpathia and Wild Cherry mines will be
pleased.” Evidently they are supposed to know that
these shows want a change of air badly.
Thanks to high meal values and a brisk
coal trade, N. S. Wales mineral exports for the first
nine months of this year were worth £7,837,166. Lead
ore, concentrates, etc., stood for £2,631,929, coal for
£2,422,501, and copper ingots, ore, etc. (16,070
tons), £1,084,529.
Lloyd Copper, Burraga (N.S.W.). sus-
tained a loss of a few hundreds by a recent fire; in-
surance covered the rest. But the fortnightly reports
don’t give one the idea that copper is being won at
a profit. Concentrates produced at a ratio of 5 to 1,
and assaying 13.25 p.c., mean an average from crudes
of only 2,00 p.c. The concentrates lose copper in
the furnace slag, and the final yield is only a shade
over 11 p.c. At £6O per ton the metal recovered
per ton of ore is worth from 245. to 30s. There
must have been serious losses at the mill. Much of
the ore treated assayed 4 p.c. in the crude state, and
4 p.c. at £6O = 485., compared with 2.65 p.c., worth
325., recovered from the mill. After the holidays a
regrinding plant will be installed, and practicallv
all jig tailings and slimes with copper in them will
be run through the Minerals Separation plant.
Although it is certain that costs have been too high,
there may be a profit from old mill products, of
which there is a large quantity in stock.
Star Exploration, Ltd., has decided to
give up business in Westralia. At present its in-
terests there comprise an out-of-work residues plant
and big wads of shares in the Lake View and Star
and Mountain Queen. The co. finds that if it were
to declare a dividend, the bulk of which was earned
in other lands, it would have to pay the AVestralian
Government dividend dutv on the lot. On ascertain-
ing this, the Board decided to close up in Westralia
and open elsewhere. Apart from its Westralian in-
terests the co. has foreign tin investments, out of
which it netted a profit of nearly £5OOO last year.
It also had at the date of the last balance-sheet about
£20,000 in cash, and it valued its entire assets at
approximately £40,000.
The hauling of ore from No. IS level
through the internal shaft sunk from No. 13 level
will be started at the Great Fingall (W.A.) early m
1914. The lengths and value of the shoot m lie
deep levels of the mine are: No, 15 level, 140 ft..
average 435. 7d. : No. 16 level, 350 ft., average
395. 6d. ; No. 17 level, 300 ft., average 40s. ; No. 18
level, 400 ft., 465. 6d. These levels have all been
connected by winzes and rises. Altogether about
800 ft. of backs are available, and as bores and cross-
cuts have proved the reef in places to be wider than
the drives, the reserves amount to a substantial
figure.
Yuanmi’s two Westralian shows together
produced a revenue of £217,152 for the year ended
June 30. After allowing for all costs and deducting
over £48,000 for depreciation and development, a
surplus of £57,080 remained. In dividends
£43,750 (2s. 6d. per share) was disbursed, leaving
with income tax taken off a carry-forward balance of
£7495. At both mines a substantial reduction
was effected in working costs. The general man-
agers in their report state that at June 30 the ore
estimated to be in sight was 116,768 tons, of a
gross value of £214,070, and that there were some
13,000-odd tons of partly-visible sulphide ore, the
average value of which was estimated at between 235.
and 28s. per ton. The management claims that the
work so far done by the sulphide plant on the
Yuanmi lease indicates that there are no treatment
troubles to contend with.
Great Boulder (W.A.) is now thinking
over Dr. Maclaren’s suggestion that it should carry
the 2720 ft. level of the Ivanhoe further east to see
if there is anything worth having in its own
ground at that depth. There wasn’t much found in
that part of the Boulder up above, but as a sort of
last resource Maclaren’s advice is worth taking.
Mountain Queen (W.A.), which recently
applied for and obtained exemption on some of its
leases, backed up its request with some figures. Re-
venue to date, £83,901. Expended in wages, stores
and sundries, £57,172; on mine development,
£19,000; on plant, £25,000. A big amount was
also absorbed in experimenting and in working
options. It now has the Great Victoria on approval,
and on the 20th inst. it will either have to pay a
preliminary deposit of £lO,OOO or get out. The
full purchase consideration is said to be £lOO,OOO,
but the bulk of this is payable out of profits. Should
a deal be made a 10,000-tons-a-month plant has to
be working on the property within six months. The
probable cost of mining and treatment is estimated
at between Bs. and 95., and as no development ex-
penditure to speak of will be needed for years,
monthly profits are estimated at several thousands.
Sample of the inane stuff that is getting
into print anent Edna May (W.A.): “An intrusive
tongue of granite is showing, but does not appear to
have influenced the reef in any disastrous fashion....
What the future of the mine will be at depth is
hazardous to prophesy, but if the shoot is as long at
150 ft. as it is at 75ft. share values will be main-
tained. .. .The lode is not in settled country, and
anything may occur.... The mine is on trial
Like the Kalgurli it presents insuperable difficulties
to the valuator. .. .The reef is looking well at the
150 ft. level, and if it continues to open up [etc.,
etc.], then there can be no doubt as to the value of
the_ ground above that level.” In a nutshell, the
position at the Edna May is that some granite has
entered an appearance, and when granite shows itself
in gold mines it is generally a case of good-bye to
regularity of values. The tale about the show offer-
ing insuperable difficulties to the valuator is non-
sense. To make shares in a mine like the Edna May
worth 555. there ought to be at least 275. or 28s.
profit in sight, and not a flaw visible in the bottom.
If these conditions do not obtain (and any qualified
mining engineer could settle the point in one act)
then the serin should be passed on by present holders
to less critical speculators.
Oroya Leonesa has been obliged to recon-
struct. The already heavily-interested Lake View
and Oroya has agreed to underwrite the whole of the
new issue of 450,000 shares without remuneration,
and by doing so guarantees to fork out 2s. assess-
ment for every share of that number not taken up.
The reconstruction will provide £45,000, about half
of which is required to pay the co.’s ordinary debts
and provide supplies. There is a debenture issue of
£35,000 to be added to the col’s load of indebted-
ness, but this is to be exchanged for similar deben-
tures in the new concern. Revolutions and conse-
quent shortage of labor through death, wounds and
disappearances have hampered operations to date;
but as peace and quietness now prevails in the Cen-
tral American Republic in which the co. is domi-
ciled, better times are predicted. Ore reserves are
computed at 85,744 tons, averaging 40s. lOd. ; and
two adjoining claims are also alleged to have some
wealth in sight.
* * * *
Ivanhoe (W.A.) is singularly unfortunate
in the matter of drill holes. Some years ago a bore
through the property from Boulder ground put a
damper for a while on the hopes of the co. ; and
now another one, put down from its own workings
at 2870 ft. to cut the main lode at 3067 ft. from the
surface, has also proved disappointing. In the
former instance crosscutting disproved drill results,
and history may repeat itself in the present case;
but as the core shows the ore to be in porphyry, the
chances are against this happening. Deeper down,
however, values have, according to Dr. Maclaren, a
chance of improving.
Queensland’s gold will show a ghastly fall
this year. To the end of November, 19i2, the output
was £1,356,537 ; for the corresponding 11 months of
1913 only £1,023,477, or £333,060 less. High-
water mark was.reached in 1900, when £2,871,578
was produced. For five years after that, things
kept pretty good ; but since then the petering-out has
been quick enough to take the breath away. And
there is not a single field that holds out hopes of
better things.
Mount Morgan comes along with its quar-
terly Is. ( £50,000), but the market has lost heart
because electrolytic copper is down from £l2 to
£l4 compared with the quotation 12 months ago.
The official account of things places the revenue for
12 weeks at £219,374, of which £103,394 is for
gold and £115,980 for copper at £6O per ton. The
gold return for three months is worth twice as much
as the dividend, so if Morgan could make the red
metal pay all the costs, things would be comfortable.
But it isn’t easy to do that, for 3 p.c. copper at £6O
is worth only 365., and costs are still very high.
Brilliant Extended, Charters Towers, re-
ports a clean-up valued at £5225, which gives a
profit of £919 for the month. During the run 1820
tons were milled and 1600 tons cyanided, so the
profit is at. the rate of slightly over 10s. per ton.
The half-year's profit was £11,500, from 14,100 tons
of stone and 12,200 tons of tailings. This flash of
prosperity caused the directors to shell out two divi-
dends totalling £12,500 (Is. on 250,000 shares).
The higher interest offered induced the directors to
increase the fixed deposit to £13,000 —over Is. per
share —a substantial amount for a concern with a
share market value of £37,500 (3s. per share).
Costs for mining, milling and cyaniding were
£1 17s. 7.7 d. per ton (mining, £ 1 Bs. 4.7 d. ; milling,
ss. l.ld. ; cyaniding, 4s. 1.9 d.). The moderate charge
of 9s. 3d. per ton for milling and cyaniding gives
the Extended a decided advantage over those mines
which pay dearly for carting and crushing, and sell
their tailings much below their gold value. The half-
year closed with a total credit balance of £16,891.
* * * *
Papuan Brilliant and Victoria (Charters
Towers) has, to some extent, demonstrated the value
of the long-neglected Moonstone reef, four dividends
having been paid this year, totalling Is. per share
( £4800). Shares could on many occasions have been
bought for Is., so the Towers must have had mighty
little confidence in the Moonstone. And that indiffer-
ence continues, in spite of the fact that the Papuan
(96,000 shares) has done better than some of the
heavily-loaded old favorites.
The half-yearly balance-sheet of the New
Specimen Hill Co., Daylesford (Vic.), shows glaringly
how the directors made unreasonable haste to pay a
div. and boost the share values. The mine produced
only £25 more than it absorbed in working exes.—
£6292 against £6267 —during the six months. The
early div. amounted to £lOOO, and necessitated a
subsequent call.
Malmsbury Alluvial, pioneering at Malms-
bury (Vic.), isn’t sure that it is under the main
gutter. Nothing wonderful has been got from the
drives as far as they have been pushed out north
and south, the best dirt showing in the face of the
latter. Farther driving east has proved a second
run of wash, so Malmsbury has an idea that the
wash entered is only tributary dirt, and fancies that
the main lead may have to be punched into further
ahead.
George Buchanan and some of his pals
have taken up the old Victorian Cornish, Daylesford,
and intend to train it to gallop. The Cornish started
the late Daylesford flutter, and led to the taking
up of the Ajax and the other mines to the south.
Under English management, with Sam Davey in con-
trol, the flat makes at the Cornish gave good profits,
but they were not big enough to keep a fat London
Board going or pay many divs. on the tall share
register. The bottom levels, too, ran into low-grade
dirt. The present float has support because the new
crowd not only are past masters in the market, but
they don’t waste time over a mine without a chance.
The dredging boomlet has brought out a
proposal to work the Guildford deep lead, near
Castlemaine (Vic.). J. Bull started there in 1905,
picked up the gutter below Mein’s Freehold, but
passed out when he had sunk the shaft. Since he
swung out of the State about 12 miles of the lead
system have been carefully pegged out, and the
public is asked to put up £3OOO to deepen Bull’s
old shaft and then prick the wash. No one can
doubt the existence of the lead, for the old Mein’s
Freehold did well, and extensive boring has proved the
continuation of the system. The good points about
the project are that the wash is at a shallow depth,
water is likely to be light, and the shaft is pretty
well down to the required depth. Still, £3OOO work-
ing capital is a flea-bite of cash for even the most
modest deep-lead show.
The Langi Logan Central (Vic.) is in the
Ararat land of Nowhere, but that does not worry
the deep-lead optimist. He is boring there now, and
he testifies that the gutter is running east and west,
thus showing that, after having gone north and
south for about 15 miles, it swings round towards
the setting sun. Most leads with an east, and west
course fail to commend themselves to miners; the
theory is that it needs a reef to feed a gutter, and
the best reefs run north and south. At the Duke
United trouble began when the gutter cut across the
country at right angles to the combs of the slates.
Central Langi people don’t worry over the theories
of these hard-heads, but dogmatise that the gold
obtained and the character of the wash from four
bores furnish tangible evidence that “the Central
Langi mine is one of undoubted merit, contains a
long length of lead, and will become a highly valu-
able property.” Perhaps ; but to count up what an
alluvial claim will be from a few surface bores is—
well, Christmas is at hand; so peace and goodwill.
The Port Davey (Tas.) hasn’t taken long
to find its level. The CD. was formed to work tin
areas selected and named the Eureka by a crowd of
innocents. Langford took the float in hand; and as
the areas were reported on by an old friend of theirs,
Bewick, Moreing and Co. accepted the management.
The co. was a bold float—looo £5 shares to the
vendors, and 1000 subscribed for at £5 each by the
best bloods in Melbourne. The subscribers got their
shares; the vendors didn’t. The latter, while hunt-
ing for the fly in the ointment, saw 8., M.’s staff
sampling the ground. Then it came out that there
was doubt about the title of two of the leases, and
the market game stopped suddenly. The first tap of
the drum afterwards brought angry contributors to
the ranks, where they had to listen to a tale that
over a thousand had gone to prove the ground of no
value; also, that £2OO had been handed to the
Eureka crowd to cancel contracts with the Co. There
was some talk of fight over this, but “Kodax” Baker
had no difficulty in showing that the composition
was a cheap let-off. The Eureka slcin-de-cat doesn’t
intend to accept the 8., M. sampling as conclusive, and
will put the £2OO back into the ground. Hadn’t
they first better see that their titles are clear?
Liquidation of the Port Davey Co. meins a refund
of £3 10s. for each fiver put up by the bloods of
that concern, so they will have a bit of salvage for
Christmas cheer.
As a result of the discovery of wash by the
Pinafore Co., near the head of the Lefroy deep alluvial
lead (Tas.), Launceston has gone on one of its rare
speculative jags. On Thursday, Nov. 27th, a prospectus
of the Lefroy Leads (155 acres adjoining the Pinafore
property) was prepared one morning. That after-
noon saw a few sporadic applications for shares ; but
on the following morning normally sober citizens were
seized by devils who rushed them violently to the
office of the amazed broker, where they waved cheques
like flags on Mafeking day. In a couple of hours
the shares were over-applied for by some 12,000, and
those who had not secured any were putting it to
the more successful that it would be a sportsmanlike
action to divide.
From • i E. Locker, secretary of the
Umeari (Philippines) dredging proposition: Referring
to The Bulletin’s queries (11/12/T3) re Umeari,
both Messrs. Herbert Park, C.E., and A. 11. Poole
(of Poole and Steele, of Bahnain) declare that the
river from its mouth to the highest point touched
bv the eo.’s claims presents no dredging difficulties,
a i,d the dredge can be floated to the lower claim in
six weeks. Both of these gentlemen have traversed
the Umeari River, and their ripe and intimate know-
ledge and experience of river-dredging are unques-
tionable. The co. has a copy of a survey plan of
the river, and holds an unqualified assurance from its
legal advisers and attorneys in Manila that its rights
to dredge up the river are fully protected. I would
just like to give some of Mr. Poole’s own words
on his return from the Umeari River some seven
weeks ago: “Firewood is very plentiful, and there is
a constant stream of water, with practically no fear
of serious floods. The dredging conditions are equal
to anything I have ever seen. There is no clay or
cement, very little overburden and no hidden river
snags. There are no bars —only a few shallows —and
all the leases are dredgable. The gravel is of a good
class; that is, the stones are fairly round, and will
run freely through a sluice-box or screen, and there
appear to be very few boulders in the river. I saw
a good deal of prospecting done, and always with
good results.”
According to London Daily Telegraph
a Cousin Jack expert at Jewburg has in-
vented a treatment process which is “destined to
revolutionise those parts of the world where re-
fractory gold ores have hitherto baffled science.”
Details were not available at the time the above
assertion was made, but the inventor was busy
assuring newspaper correspondents and others that
ores containing arsenic, antimony, graphite and other
troublesome ingredients will be made to give up 98
per cent, of their gold contents. The inventor fur-
ther states that he will dissolve base metals as
easily as cyanide dissolves gold. Well, why is he
wasting valuable time in talking?


NEWS FROM SEA LAKE, VIO.
We are indebted to Mr. Dan O’Connor for the
following letter: “Last winter my son and I were
attacked with dreadful colds. My boy was so bad he
could not attend school. I decided to give Cham-
berlain’s Cough Remedy a trial, and it was highly
successful. My cold was cured in one night, and I
feel mighty grateful to know that such a Cough
Remedy as Chamberlain’s can be purchased at such a
reasonable price.”*
Heeiingfs
Est 1818
a i% v
Copen/jatfen
. SV
A
»*
FARMER'S
SYDNEY
SPECIAL
THEATPE DHTMEP
EVEPY EPIDAY EVEnmO
TABLE D'HOTE 4/s
EUTRAfICE - CENTRAL PITT 5T DOORS
ELEVATOR /b FIFTH FLOOD
BUCHANAN’S
Black. (Si White.
ft
A GRAND SPIRIT
“ Black & White ” is indeed a “ grand spirit.”
Matured for years in Scotland before shipment.
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
kydney, December 15, 1913.
MY -Dear Arini, —
Governor Strickland’s departing Help
Talbot kept his intention of looking for
another billet in the “Colonies” —poor old
Colonies! —so hidden from the vulgar eye,
that we packed him off to Aldershot and cold
drill a week ago. Now the news is broken
that he joins the Macgregor’s staff in Queens-
land early in the new year. Society in
Bananaland will therefore be half-soled and
heeled by an attractive youngster who has
been spoilt for a while by over-doses of the
sugar-plums of life.
The Reid cavalcade will wedge a week at
Queenscliff (Vic.) into their hurried flight
along the Australian coastline. From Jan.
26 to Feb. 1, obr Pie Commissioner cools
off in the Apple Island, after his panting
tour of the North.
Barrister Milner Stephen, who seemed a
sure tip for the city ermine, missed the
Mayorship by a head. The first to pass the
judge’s stand was Alderman Richards; ex-
city surveyor. Milner Stephen-, Whbsb
ding this week will be attended by shOwets
of confetti and myriads of relations —the
Stephen family is father less numerous than
the sands of the sea —expected to hand his
bride (she is Miss Molly Graham till the
knot is tied) a chair as Lady Mayoress on
New Year’s Day. That dream is O’er —for
another year-, anyhow.
Our Ue\v Municipal Mother-elect, Mrs. R.
W, Richards* is a sister of Mrs. Sam Hor-
dern, senior, who used to be one of this
city’s best-looking matrons. The sisters were
born in the municipal fold long before the
Mayor of Sydney became a “Lord.” They are
the daughters of a former city alderman,
John Booth. Mrs. Richards has been turned
inside out, without an anaesthetic, by several
interviewers. The revelations are so like
those of a long line of predecessors that I
suppose a Mayoress is predestined to love
her home, and her husband, and needlework
(plain and fancy) and to have no domestic
troubles. This leaves her free to cultivate
Good Works, while ordinary women are
burning saucepans and cultivating a feroci-
ous aversion to darning socks.
The announcement of Debussy’s “Prodigal
Son,” at Her Majesty’s, didn’t kindle any
wild desire for seats, and a moderately slim
audience turned out for the second-last even-
ing of the opera season. Even the bait of a
symphony concert to follow, with the remark-
able Eckhold, the agitato Voghera, and
Joseph Bradley as an extra, failed to keep
the stall-holders in their seats till the clocks
chimed 11. The latter half of a fine
orchestral wail of mixed music was anno-
tated by the stealthy departure of the stalled
ox and the clattering exits and entrances
of the long-haired tribe who thronged the
d.c. during the now-defunct opera orgy.
These disturbers of the peace of plain citi-
zens ought to be herded together in some
sound-proof compound during the visits
of strange song-birds. The average profes-
sional musician can be depended on to add
the creak of shoe-leather to every vocal and
instrumental performance in this city, and
the recent opera co. was, for nine long weeks,
more or less stamped on by these irritating
followers of the Art.
Perceval Allen’s garb as Lia, the mother
of the Prodigal, was mostly veil, about the
size of a tablecloth, and battened down on
her head with a metal circlet. Papa Simeon
(Graham Marr) blessed the returned spend-
thrift in the usual multi-colored dressing-
gown of Asia, surmounted by a hat no larger
than a well-srrown parsnip. This millinery
took root in the centre of a fluffy grey
coiffure. The scene was laid on the classic
shores of Lake Genesareth. If parsnip
modes be the local fashion, the leading gentry
must wear very wet towels over the
back of their heads, for the sun is fairly
scorching in summer thereabouts. De-
bussy wrote no music for the fatted calf.
Indeed, judging by the rotund waistline of
the Prodigal Son (Maurice d’Oisly), the
wanderer slew and ate the beast on his way
home. Edna Thornton, in her best voice,
warbled a song by Ernest Wunderlich, lab-
elled “Good Night,” to loud applause. The
amateur composer, who has been camping
with his wife in the d.c. the last nine weeks,
looked slightly self-conscious during the pro-
gress of this melodious effort, in consequence
of his large circle of acquaintances
staring him straight in the face to see how
he was taking it.
The Quinlan Opera Co. is said to be
more free from internecine warfare than most
travelling aviaries. It is a kind of co-opera-
tive-Commonwealth arrangement, with no
stars at enormous salaries and proportionate
opinions of their worth to play up when the
management gets into a tight corner. The
longer Thomas Quinlan can keep going
the better it is for principals and under-
studies. A steady wage being better than
a tussle for engagements, even one tenor
has learnt to be at peace with another, and
no soprano in the co. has been caught
smacking the face of any other lady who got
too much apnlause. Maurice d’Oisly cer-
tainly borrowed the silver-plated trousers of
Lohengrin Thomas the other night. But it
was all in a friendly way of business, and
Lohengrin got them back with his week’s
washing, in time for the performance on
Saturday night.
Lohengrin, having had his silver trousers
returned by Manrico, strutted round the
shores of the Scheldt, after walking out with
Elsa, for the last time on December 13. Man-
ager Quinlan’s work during the season was
recognised on this occasion by first-nighters,
who gave him an illuminated address and a
gold matchbox. Mrs. Quinlan’s share was a
diamond-spangled bangle. Chief Justice
Cullen, whose white thatch has. been a pto L
minent d.c. landmark of iate, handed over
the goods.
Confirmed opera-goers will now remove
their air-cushions and other baggage after a
nine weeks’ camp in Her Majesty’s, and
turn lightly to thoughts of hamper baskets
and surf costumes.
The N.S.W. . Institute of ArcbitectS
out edrds to hihhi its fifth biehnidl exhibi-
tion; The.sb passes Webe so vaguely worded
that t\yo-thirds of thq invited pet-sobs
believed that last Friday would see the open-
ing ceremony, and were stunned to bead of
Wednesday’s party two days before their
own presence wds asked for by the amuse-
ment committee. After recovering from this
indignity, the Friday assortment put on only
its second-best hat, and sauntered round the
exhibits with an air of detachment till it
fell upon the food supplies with heavy
slaughter.
The exhibition itself pointed severely to
the attempts of the modern builder to scale
the clouds. In the suburban villa department
the Indian bungalow is evidently fighting
for a place beside the fashionable pigeon
cotes with small lattice windows and no
verandahs worth mentioning. The old
“Colonial” house, with its beneficent breadth
of airy balconies and spacious halls, is
crumbling into a memory before pepper-pot
towers and horrible attempts to imitate
mediaeval fortresses on a 40-foot frontage.
The cottage in most of the designs at this
exhibition showed gleams of architectural
intelligence in the matter of kitchen and
pantry. Still, the woman architect in Aus-
tralia ought to have a future, for the male
person has a past strewed with labor-making
devices.
Musical items provided by pianist Rich-
ards and singer Appleby were supplemented
by the deep growl of Bryce Carter’s ’cello.
Mrs. Alfred Lee and a daughter came along
to the party. Artists Ethel Phillips Fox
and Thea Proctor tore themselves away from
Manly for the occasion. Handsome Thea,
swathed in sapphire blue, looked so much
like one of her own French fan fantasies
that she ought to have been mentioned in
the catalogue. The Binnies, Dr. Grace
Boelke, and other familiar figures at these
shows succeeded in peering into the exhibits
over the bodies of the Always-Hungry, who
were cramming themselves with food. Mrs.
Budden ana Mrs. Ernest Scott were lying
in wait for visitors at the entrance to the
R.A. Society’s hot-air compartments.
John McCormack’s farewell to his admirers
the Town Hall ended up with a football
m§lee, in wffiich the rabid encore fiends were
forwards and half-backs. In the excite-
ment of the final scrimmage the people in
the choir seats threatened personal violence
if the lights went out before Kathleen
Mavourneen and other well-known Irish
ladies were introduced. McCormack’s great-
est effort, “The Lord is My Light,” rang out
like a trumpet call till the municipal welkin
trembled, for a few days’ rest had restored
resonance to the silvery tenor. May Hux-
ley, loaded with Christmas bells and caught
in the swirl of the encore whirlpool, sang
the opening bars of German’s “Waltz Song”
with a nasal intonation which she should
throw overboard on the voyage to Maoriland.
Donald Mcßeath fiddled his best, and Vin-
cent O’Brien, as usual, spent the evening at
the piano. Surgeon McCormick (the con-
quering Alexander), legions of W. T. Bren-
nans, the tall Layton duet, John’s pet
colleen twinkling with diamonds, autograph
fiends charging the den behind the growling
organ, and a generally-joyous feeling of
Ballyhooley Fair, mixed up with the Rugby
football before mentioned, finished the Irish
tenor’s 1913 concert tour in Australia.
The air throbs with breaking-up entertain-
ments and the hair bows of the Young
Person have waggled in front of innumer-
able “speech days.” Sydney Grammar
School puts away its slates this week, after
a few remarks from Governor Strickland.
The Girls’ High School, in the crazy old
building in Elizabeth-street, has just pro-
duced a prize-winner who has beaten every-
thing her own weight and age on sight.
This promising youngster, who is a tall, spec-
tacled 17-year-old named Lorna Beveridge,
piled up such a formidable list of wins at
the recent exams, that mere boys will have
to rearrange their ideas about the woman’s
vote. As hard fate would have it, two
ferocious stacks of exam, papers fell due
about the same time. The State school’s
inquisition was racking the Young Idea while
the Uni. senior exam, was tearing informa-
tion from its perspiring devotees, and Lorna
was out to tackle both. For three successive
weeks this learned young person poured forth
all the knowledge she’d corked up for the occa-
sion. Here are a few results : The Horner
Exhibition for mathematics; the Baker
Scholarship, a valuable trophy usually won
by young men; various medals; “almost
equal” for the Fairfax prize (she missed this
by an eyelash or so) ; and a few certificates
and ordinary prizes. Anything not men-
tioned here can be collected later with a
lorry. The North Sydney girl, who is going
to study medicine, starts with a cargo of
mathematics usually found only in the hold
of a senior wrangler.
The Arts and Crafts Society; which hangs
tip its sign id Norwich Chambers, h4§ been
showing its wares with successful assaults on
the public purse. The Christmas-gift habit
is the Society’s sole excuse for this its third
exhibition since Junfe.
Mr. Thorley, an English ofganist ,vthd is
staying hefe just nbw, has none of the but-
ward of the irritable mhsical fraternity;
Hb wfeaf§ his ifdn-gtey thateji shdrt; and has
the placid appearance of a wheat farmer who
ha,s, just harvested. 18 bushels to the acre and
sold the lot as prime seed.
A yqiing Scot named Wright wandered
ftom Aberdeen to Sydney, via London and
Paris studios, a while ago, with the wild am-
bition to set up as a sculptor in Australia.
But sculpture, except on tombstones, is not
so necessary as bricklaying in a young coun-
try, and the Wright chisel is doing strong
work at half-speed. Some models of the
Aberdeen native’s work were on view at the
recent Architects’ Exhibition, notably a
group of figures, boldly planned, which are
to stand amongst the smuts on the skyscrap-
ing tower of the new Daily Telegraph
buildings.
After 21 years’ service, Dominie Aspinall
is getting down off his high seat as head of
the Scots’ College for boys. This academy,
for all sizes in knickerbockers, farewelled
its old Principal with a rush of presents,
which included a ticket to the other end of
the earth—marked “Return.” Mrs. Aspin-
all had a similar little token of right-feeling
from ex-students. So the popular pair can gad
round the globe, and keep their own money
stowed away in an old stocking for tourist
hotels and other legalised forms of robbery.
The Todmans’ palatial cot at Homebush is
acquiring an extensive acreage of 32 decora-
tive panels from the brush of Norman
Carter. The same artist, who is wearing as
lean as a greyhound in training, is working
overtime at some more decorative work for
the Sydney ’Varsity Union Library.
A Hobart girl named Mabel Sprent, who
is holidaying here, has just had her first
novel, “Love’s Apprenticeship,” published by
Methuen, of London. The title has a delicious
flavor of youth about it, and the goods inside
are in keeping.
Bernice Edwell, a former Sydney Arts and
Crafts worker, is so bustled with commis-
sions in Adelaide that she is likely to stay
over there as a permanency.
Lawrence Campbell is handing over the
profits of a six nights’ season at the Palace
—in his own playlet, “Jasmine” —to the
Alexandra Hospital for children. This
institution is yelling with all its might—a
good, old ear-splitting Christmas yell—for
cash or toys for its sick and maimed babies.
“Jasmine” was given a good start off the
mark by a packed audience on Saturday
night.
Frank Tait, one of the six brothers who
control the coming and going of many musi-
cal stars, is over here from the Cabbage
Patch with his new bride. They are hover-
ing on the rim of John McCormack’s pro-
jected departure to Maoriland 'this week-
strike permitting. Mrs. Frank is an attrac-
tive slip of a girl, with a handsome pair of
Irish eyes.
The Ernest Wunderlichs are off to Europe
again. They’ll drink deep draughts
of their favorite vintage, Wagnerian chords,
at Bayreuth and other well-known musical
hostels in 1914.
Surfing has to be approached with care
by innocent strangers from the other side.
Vincent O’Brien, the Dublin musician who
accompanies the McCormack voice, found
out one of its perils after he had had an
ear peppered with sand. Since then he has
been haying his drums attended to by a
local aurist. It’s a fairly common complaint
in the surfing season, but mighty awkward
for a pianist who is trying to catch a tenor’s
soft whisper to Molly Bawn.
The cheery prospect of lending a hand in
the stoking department of the outgoing
Maoriland steamer is still open to Dr. Oscar
Paul, who married Miss Gwyneth Jones on
Saturday last. The bride is one of the sev-
eral daughters of the late Richard, of the
Harrison, Jones and Devlin wool firm.
Whether the honeymoon couple will take the
risky joy of helping an amateur crew over
the bumpy track to Maoriland, while the
seamen’s strike is dying hard, is uncertain as
I write (Monday). Several M.L. boats are
boldly anonncing their intended departure
this week. Other trousseaued passengers
who had intended jumping aboard an M.L
craft, are giving it up. And the Oscar Paui
couple may also put off their trip till the
scratch crews —lawyers, doctors, dentists
etc.—get back to their own trades.
The McCall-McCowans (this is a name
that needs to be handled with care) will
eat their Christmas dinner at Kosciusko.
He is superintendent in Australia of the
huge pastoral concern known as the New
Zealand and Australian Land Co.
Managing-Director Newman, of the
Howard Smith line, is going to petrol up to
Kosciusko this side of the Christmas plum-
pudding. The rod-and-line craze is luring
him and a party of friends that way. And
some Brisbane folks; Dr. and Mrs. A. J,
Turner, are bound for the Upper Showy in
January, also with rods in their baggage.
Miss Isabel Shiels is putting on her cap
and apton as matron of the Renwick Hospi-
tal for babes. Miss Mafy Ldytoti steps into
the same useful institution ks siktet-in-
fehafge oh January 1. ■
The Neville Maymans ate packing, tip two
saddle hacks; and taking t(ie only daughter
to, the Mountains. But; first, thefe is a
Christmas Eve concert in the Hospital for
Womeii, which Mrs. Mayman will see
through to the httefmost hoie.
The Lucas Tooth family is still bom-
barded with placards imploring its presence
in our Best Suburbs. It hit back last week
with an evening party at the Australia.
This has been respectfully described in every
detail except as to the pattern in evening
socks preferred by Baronet Robert Lucas.
Jessie Ackermann, F.R.G.S., spent about
two years in search of copy for her book
“Australia from a Woman’s Point of
View.” Most women hate statistics in any
shape; but the German parentage in Miss
Ackermann seemed to lead her to the door-
mat of every dull office in the leading cities
of Australia. Arrived there she opened her
mouth and some vassal poured arithmetic
down her throat. Off the track of politi-
cians and statistics the book has a few read-
able patches. Of the Australian girl she
says: “A new brand is in process of evolu-
tion. ... Speaking generally, they (Aus-
tralian girls) are really delightful creatures.
Their charms are so refreshing, one hesitates
to sound a note of criticism... .Free, in-
dependent and unconventional, the younger
generation stands next of kin to their neigh-
bor maidens across the Atlantic —American
girls.”
The Queen’s Club, which formerly reared
a spiky wall of regulations against new mem-
bers, has lately slipped off its old
haughty pedestal. One of its members
sighed through a mouthful of buttered toast
the other afternoon re some recent additions
to the exclusive menagerie. “We used to
make rather a point about grandfathers—
now we’ve ceased to worry about the social
status even of the fathers of new members.”
I understand that the Labor party is in-
directly blamed for this catastrophe, among
others.
Fashion, which has been rending our nether
garments in twain, and tearing our upper
garments asunder at the throat, is getting
back to its old, high-necked attitude. Clothes,
if the Paris winter models are a forecast,
will be regarded as a covering for the fem-
inine form in our next autumn. A fashion
magazine that came by the last mail shows
ladies who are trussed to the ear-lobes. For-
tunately for the race, very few women have
figures like the dolls in French fashion-
plates, or Woman in the year-to-be would
be boned to the brain in high collars that look
like lace walls flanked by girders of steel.
Another mendicant holds out both hands
for help. This time it is the N.S.W. Home
for Incurables at Ryde. The Home provides
flower-decked gardens and comfortable stor-
age for the physically broken who can never
hope to be mended this side of Jordan. Secre-
tary F. C. Moore remarks that hundreds are
waiting for beds in this picturesque haven,
but they’ll have to camp outside till more
bricks and mortar are put together. £7500
is the sum required.
Mosman, which hangs like a green eyebrow
over rounded bays, is going to swing out its
carnival lights on Saturday next. There will
be carol singers, who will warble in the glow
of Chinese lanterns, and motor-boats are
politely requested to refrain from snorting
in the chorus.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.
So hopeless is Labor’s position in the
Vic. House of Landlords that the first Labor
Ministry included every member of the party
in that Chamber. There are two salaried
and two honorary Ministers: Evans, a
fruit-grower at Ringwood; small-goods
manufacturer McLellan, of Richmond; J.
P. Jones, tailor; and Fielding, of Footscray,
who ousted W. H. Edgar recently and thus
attains Cabinet rank in his first session of
Parliament.


*
w.
“TRIUMPHS” Proved Conclusively to
be the Most Economical Motor Cycles.
Petrol! That s the greatest bugbear to motor-cyclists,
say that their engines “eat it up” most extravagantly.
You’ll hear SOME riders
But NOT “Triumph” Riders and here’s a LOCAL proof.
THE SYDNEY MOTOR CYCLE CLUB held its
TEST in the Centennial Park, with this result:—
recent PETROL ECONOMY
T. NAIRN Triumph) ... ... 1
A. STEVENS Triumph) ... ... 2
E. Rl(i Q = H.P. Triumph) ... ... 3
These men were not experts—bear in mind.
First and Second men were novices—and had never competed in any previous
club Competition.
SO THE TRIUMPH NOW PROVES THE
MOST ECONOMICAL MACHINE AS
WELL AS THE MOST RELIABLE.
We are opening up new models and invite your inspection. The patent Spring
Forks of the “TRIUMPH” make it a particularly comfortable motor-cycle for
touring or business purposes.
Vmi r inspection is invited. We are open till 6 p.m., or till 9 p.m. on Fridays. If
you cannot call we will be glad to post you our Catalogue 836 free of charge.
Bennett & Barkell Ltd.
Agents for Triumph, Rudge=Whitworth & New Hudson Motor Cycles,
Manufacturers of the B. & B. Motor Cycles,
124-132 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
VICE-REGAL
JEWELLERS
BY APPOINTMENT.
Christmas Presents
Fashionable Cameo Jewellery.
Coral Cameo, Pearl and Dia-
mond Drop Necklet, in case,
£7.
jprc;
Cameo Ring, £l/16/'
It is impossible to illustrate the
many different designs in this
artistic jewellery available* Inspec-
tion is invited, and will well repay
anyone. Selections sent to the
country on approval.
Pair Cameo and Pearl Earrings,
in case, £4-
Write for our New Booklet giving
details and illustrations of over
300 articles suitable for presentation
—sent post free.
Hardy Brothers Limited,
VICE-REGAL JEWELLERS,
13 Hunter St., Sydney; 118 Queen St., Brisbane.
LONDON OFFICE: 17 & 18 WEST SMITHFIELD, E.C.
N.S.W. Bookstall Scries.
1,000,000 COPIES SOLD OF THE POPULAR
“BOOKSTALL” SERIES of AUSTRALIAN NOVELS
Written, Illustrated and Printed in Australia.
Price, One Shilling' Each ; Post Free, 1/1.
“ AB ORIGINALITIES,”
From “ The Bulletin.” Selected by CHARLES BERTIE, author of “ Old Sydney,” etc.
With 39 Illustrations by Lionel Lindsay.
Price, 1 /-; Post Free, 1/1.
Readers of The Bulletin, the most popular paper in Australia, will welcome this book with
enthusiasm, as it will enable them to enjoy afresh many a hearty joke that tickled them years ago.
Mr. Berne has selected only the best, so that readers are saved the weeding-out process inevitable in
such a collection of contributions as appears in a weekly paper.
The supreme advantage of having an artist like Lindsay to illumine the text will be apparent
the moment you open this book, which should p rove a mirth producer second to none.
, ose , w * lo , no *" he Bulletin readers, we say, “Buy a copy of ‘Aboriginalities’ at once.
You will laugh and grow fat.”
SPORTING BOOKS.
‘The Sport of Kings” has perhaps a bigger hold upon Australians than upon any other nation on
tne earth. B°rn amongst horses, they love a good mount, and rejoice in the emulation that produces
tne winners, these sporting books contain rattling racing yarns, stories of “The Ring,” and tales
of all sorts relating to snort in general. Likewise they are all purely Australian.
A ROGUE’S LUCK, by ARTHUR WRIGHT. 1/-, Post Free 1/1.
TJe reader is introduced to the undercurrent of the racing and boxing fraternity, and is never
short of excitement.
GAMBLER’S GOLD, by ARTHUR WRIGHT. 1/-, Post Free 1 /1.
Illustrating the difficulties that beset the path of the gambler, whether in the two-up school, at
rnrcfi#* This story is full of “life” as found in the above-mentioned places.
THE MARE WITH THE SILVER HOOF, by 808 AI LEN. 1 /-, Post Free 1 /1.
A rattling racing yarn, dealing with the “tricks of the trade” as practised in certain circles, and
telling how a favorite mare righted a woman’s wrong. A really good story.
EROS. EROS WINS! by F. AGAR. 1/-, Post Free 1/1.
A good horse is not always allowed to win, and many of the doubtful methods of preventing him
are exposed herein.
RUNG IN, by ARTHUR AVRIGHT. 1/-, Post Free 1/1.
An attractive tale of the “turf,” with an excellent plot that reveals scenes and incidents full of
fun, fraud and tragedy.
THOS. E. SPENCER,
PRICE, 1/- per Vol. ; Post Free, 1/1.
Australia’s Subtlest Humorist, and the writer of the best
Australian Recitations and Sketches this side
of the Equator.
Year after year he maintained that reputation, and he never sent to his publisher any book
that public opinion had not voted a DECIDED SUCCESS. Those who are fond of GENUINE
HUMOR and a HEARTY LAUGH should start with “MoDOUGALL,” and go right down the list.
It can be done for a SHILLING A SHOT, and will prove money well spent. Every book teems with
splendid RECITATIONS, such as clever amateurs love, and the variety is endless. The List to Date:—
How McDougall Topped the Score.
The Spring Cleaning.
Binda walla.
Why Doherty Died.
The Surprising Adventures of Bridget
Me Sweeney.
The Haunted Shanty.
That Droll Lady.
Steele Rudd s Great Australian Books
In Cheap Editions. Price, Is. each ; Post Free, Is. Id.
All the Celebrated Illustrations have been retained, as these New Cheap Editions are printed from
the Original Stereos.
Sandy’s Selection.
Back at Our Selection.
From Selection to City.
On Our Selection.
Our New Selection.
The Dashwoods.
The Poor Parson.
Duncan McClure.
For Life.
Dad in Politics.
Stocking Our Selection.
On an Australian Farm.
IM.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.,
476 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. And All Branches and Booksellers.
OH ! IT’S A
GREAT IDEA!
The “IWAN” Pattern
Post Hole Digger
makes fencing or any earth boring
dead simple.
No more pressure is needed than
to lean on the digger and turn it
to the right. Hard, dry ground,
of course, needs more weight. Six
half-turns usually fills the digger,
and six times filling makes your
3-feet hole.
Bores the hole just about right
for the post, leaving very little
earth to shovel back and ram. 10
inch is the usual fencing size, and
120 holes in a day is good going.
Splendid for planting fruit trees,
and effective in boring for water.
The “IWAN” Pattern
Post Hole Digger
is a success because it’s built
right. Perfectly balanced, rigid,
and no loose parts to wobble or
rust up. Get one !
3456789 10 12 14in.
7/- 7/. 7/- 7/. 7/6 8/6 9/6 10/- 27/- 34/-
MST>Kersori§)
V> — Proprietary Ltd.
554-66 & 582-88 COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
3 8/"
buys this
fine Pump
Very few Pump Buyers pass
by McPHERSON’S NOTED 38/-
LOW-DOWN DOUBLE-ACTING
FORCE PUMP.
It’s a fine, sturdy pump,
with 5-inch cylinder and
2-inch openings for suc-
tion and discharge. Draws
1500 gals, per hour, and
throws a solid jet from
a 1-inch director a dis-
tance of 60 feet. This
latter feature makes it
i fine for country fire carts.
; Grand for general pump-
i ing, irrigating, spraying,
and washing vehicles.
All parts easily accessible; you
can take the pump to pieces in a
few minutes with an ordinary
screw wrench.
Supplied as illustrated with
connections for 2-in. suction hose
and 1-in. delivery hose, or with
fittings for 2-in. iron pipe, both
suction and delivery.
38
Don’t Go to the Well !
Pump the water where you want
it. Lay pipes to kitchen, bath-
room, and have water on tap.
Such comfort costs very little.
Draft up a scheme you fancy.
We’ll be pleased to send our Price.


Forthe Xmas Outing—FARMER’S
Vacuum Flasks.
The convenience it renders during the Xmas holidays
will make the fortunate recipient of one of FARMER’S
VACUUM FLASKS realise its true value. It keeps liquids
h6t for 24 hours, and icy cold for 72. We stock them with
Leather or Leatherette Covers, Nickel-plated Top and
Bottom.
LEATHERETTE COVERED.
Sizes 1 2 pints.
Prices 7/6 11/6 14/6 each.
LEATHER COVERED.
Sizes 1 14 2 pints.
Prices 9/6 13/6 16/6 each.
FARMER’S, SYDNEY,
Pitt, Market and George Streets.
1
“The Fashion in Fragrance l”
ParfCin)
The essence of the Lilac Bloom!
All the rage in Europe, and now
the favorite and fashionable Per=
fume in Australia. Manufactured
by Gustav Lohse, Berlin. The
Leading Perfumieres in the World.
Obtainable of all Stores throughout Australia
Sole Agent—
A. 0. SCHMIDT, William St.
MELBOURNE.
The
Oriental
Hotel,
MELBOURNE.
AUSTRALIA’S MODERN HOTEL.
Now open for the reception of Quests.
The most Hygienic Conditions and Refined
Elegance are distinctive features.
Any size suite of compartments.
Tariff from 15/= per day.
ERNEST McINTOSH, General Manager.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, December 15, 1913.
My Dear Yarrie, —
The Denman dame, in peacock blue in-
terrupted by crushed strawberry ninon,
and under a spiky black tulle hat, opened the
shining doors of the new Y.W.C.A. build-
ing, in Russell-street, on Saturday after-
noon. The handsome premises, which cost
close on £20,000, are the gift of the Conni-
bere family, and stand as a useful memorial
of George Connibere, the deceased head of
the house. For the moderate sum of 15s.
a week, the Christian Young Woman can
be boarded and lodgtd in a room so white
that she will dream of Heaven at least three
nights in seven. Water is laid on in each
bedroom, so the cleanliness which is next to
the other thing should be assured. Anglican
Archbishop Clarke breathed blessings into
the edifice, and, after he was through, Par-
son Spun- added his little bit to make cer-
tain. Chamberlain Nevill stood to attention
while the religion was being instilled. Mrs.
President Pearce, in Durple featherings, spoke
earnestly, and refrained from step-dancing;
Mrs. Robert Harper decorated the platform
in black and white; and Archdeacon Hindley
tucked his gaiters under a chair. Robert
Best and Ernest Connibere were listened to
reverently by the hundreds of white-mus-
lined girls in the hall; and, later on, there
was tea. Come to think of it, tea follows
every function of the sort. Sometimes I
think the Hereafter will be all tea —and
buns, perhaps.
The five Harold Pearson babies, closely
attended by their parents, were conducted up
the gangway of the big ship Orama last
week. The G-G. pair farewelled them from
the pier, and then hurried shorewards to
hide their distinguished tears. Mrs. Harold
made herself liked among Melbourne’s Best
People during her stay, and helped to set
the fashion for straw-colored hair-switches.
So long as straw switches are in she will be
fondly remembered.
A link was forged last week between the
Victorian Bench and the British peerage.
Margaret Hodges, the second of Justice
Hodges’ pretty daughters, married a younger
son of the Earl of Glasgow, and became the
Hon. Mrs. John Boyle. She is slender and
dark, with a fragile look that is awfully
appealing. She used to decorate most Mel-
bourne functions that deserved it. Sister
Mrs. H. Clifton Brown sheltered her up to
the moment of the ordeal, and the giving-
away solemnities were allotted to the mili-
tary brother-in-law, Colonel H. Clifton
Brown. (For goodness sake, don’t forget
that “Clifton”!) People who are interested
in such things reckon the wedding one of
the great events of the year. By the way,
Margaret’s stepmother has just fitted up the
country refuge at Macedon with furniture
which is up to the best traditions of that
high vice-regal roost. Capt. Boyle, a
brother of the new bridegroom, was aide to
Gov. Carmichael when he reigned in Mel-
bourne.
The late Sam Gillott, whose rich estate
paid probate duty the other day, was a mere
boy in comparison with his one-time junior
partner and brother alderman, Arthur
Snowden. Snowden had his 85th birthday
recently, and last week the singing members
of Melbourne’s only surviving Liedertafel
serenaded him in honor of his long connec-
tion with their musical body. Eighty-five
of them went down to the Snowden domicile
at Abbotsford for the nurpose of warbling
to their antique vice-president in the garden,
where everything was lovely, including the
refreshments. Talking of octogenarian
Arthur and septuagenarian Sam, one is dis-
posed to wonder as to the exact youthful-
ness of Croker —of the sylphlike figure—
who was sandwiched between them long ago
in the legal firm of Gillott, Croker and
Snowden.
The Overseas Club had a garden fete on
Saturday in the W. H. Felstead grounds at
Kew. Mrs. Hennessy, in biscuit-colored lace,
supplied the opening remarks on a corner of
the lawn behind a bouquet of sweet peas.
The Gaud Mayor added some superfluous
details, and Dr. Springthorpe got rid of a
few observations he happened to have about
him. Mrs. Felstead beamed pinkly on these
proceedings in expensive Irish crochet lace
and a pink-lined hat- while her white-mus-
lined daughter looked on wearily from the
background. Pa Felstead modestly endea-
vored to be mistaken for an ordinary
guest. A big mob of solemnly-Imperial
Overseas people then strewed themselves
about the premises and rode for the glory of
the Empire on merry-go-rounds and don-
keys. The proceeds (swelled by a big cheque
from the Felsteads) are to supply the
women-members of the Overseas Club with
rooms wherein to read back-numbers of illus-
trated papers, write home, whisper,
straighten their hair, borrow hairpins and
do up one another’s blouses.
The Harper-Barton alliance was effected
the other Tuesday afternoon, with much
pomp and circumstance, at Toorak’s Presby-
terian Kirk. The holy edifice was cumbered
with lilies and greenery, and the Best People
stood on one another’s feet and craned their
necks to see. Mrs. Albert Miller and the
Staughton widow (the latter in magpie
varb) were amongst the foremost onlookers;
Mrs. Dunbar Hooper purred congratulations ;
and the Youngmans and Laidlaws smiled
theirs. The Knox boys and some
Bretts were elegant spectacles in the polite
crush. Margaret Barton played the part of
bride in a cutely-cut ivory moire coat and
skirt which had the latest waistless look
about it; but her pretty hair was hidden by
an unbecoming tulle headcovering. Step-
brother-in-law George Knox gave her away,
Papa being absent on business. Bridegroom
Arthur Harper, who is something under
seven feet without his boots (he had them
on while he was being married), appealed
for guidance to his stout groomsman, Lind-
say Docarty, and was supplied with the pro-
per steering directions. Gretta Laidlaw,
the lone bridesmaid, performed her duties
in white and red upholstery. Mrs. Robert
Harper, clad in black Chantilly spread on
white, with mauve sash and flowers, helped
the bride’s step-sister, Mrs. McPherson-
Knox. The wedding taxes were spread out
for inspection at Illawarra, Toorak, where
refreshments were also available. The
wedded pair escaped later in a new car of
their own, amidst a blizzard of confetti. The
honeymoon tour includes Tasmania, Japan
and America, in that order.
The first Dufault concert drew a good fat
audience. Paul let himself go as he never
did when in the shadow of the gorgeous
Nordica. The usual adoring contingent of
pink-necked flappers burbled, and gushed,
and yelped about him until someone sug-
gested it would be a good idea to bring all
such young things in crates and throw a
cloth over them when they got too excited.
Violet Clark’s platform frock was composed
of maize-colored cloth and lace. One of
Dufault’s encore items was announced as
“A Sprig of Boronia,” by Florence Hull, of
Melbourne. (“Florence Hull,” of course, is
Mrs. Kenny.) Tenor Walter Kirby was in
a front-row seat, criticising gently for the
benefit of some powdered ospreys. So far
as I could see, he was hemmed in. Fragile
Leonie Peterson-Mackworth accompanied
her military husband in pale blue chiffon.
Mamma Pinschof was attended by Pa. The
platform, dressed in trellis, gum leaves and
green cloth, was a great improvement. In
its usual unadorned state it looks a bleak,
lonely place.
The gentle Paul is the most soothing male
singer in the business, and he caresses his
words like doves or prize fowls before he
allows them to fly away into silence. When in
action he reminds me of a recent poem by
Shaw Neilsen, with the refrain, “Let your
song be gentle.” I guess the Canadian must
have inspired it. Harold Whittle, who was
well aware that the finished Romayne Sim-
mons had recently occupied the accompa-
nist’s stool, did his very best. Ernest Toy
fiddled one of his own madrigals and some
well-worn “pieces,” and Violet Clark sup-
plied a few nice but unsensational soprano
items. It is a pity Dufault does so much of
the limp, drawing-room, “Only-a-leaf-of-pars-
ley” type of song. It may hit the public
over the heart which has fatty degeneration,
but he could mix in a larger proportion of
good stuff without doing any damage to his
programmes.
The Greens’ juvenile fancy ball, which
skipped and frothed at the Town Hall the
other Monday, produced so many pocket
Genees that imagination staggered and had
to be taken home in a cab with its boots
hanging limply out the back. While the
pretty kiddies were stepping and winning
applause, rival mammas were busy with
their little hatchets. One always expects a
certain amount of this in a competitive atmo-
sphere; but the execution done at the Green’s
spree was tremendous. During the evening
there was one awful moment of suspense.
Two of the chubbiest babies (cherubs of not
more than three and a bit), decorated with
rosebuds and tulle, suddenly became stage-
struck, and refused to budge from the en-
chanted spot of lieht in the centre of the
platform. Loud stage whispers, commands
and low whistles failed to shift the pair,
who stood perfectly still, until Mrs. Green
herself, in lilac and lace, rushed on and
grabbed them up. Sadie Purves (who used
to be Sadie Green) assisted mamma, in be-
coming black. Husband Jim Purves hovered
on the outskirts and criticised. When Gaud
Mayor Hennessy, in an almost inaudible
speech, sought to press purses of sovereigns
upon daughter Florrie and her mother,
they (I don’t mean the sovereigns)
became panic-stricken, and had to be dragged
into public view. I thought, for one oalpi-
tating moment, that the Gaud Mayor would
be forced to pocket the cash and wait his
chance; but he eventually got rid of the
money in public.
John Thomson, one of the Liberal whips
in the House of Reps., seized the opportunity
to get married whilst the sun shone. The
party bought him a silver tray, and chief
Cook presented it, with a few remarks, on
the Parliament premises. The remarks weren’t
printed, but I do hope he didn’t call any-
body a cow or refer to tripe more than three
times.
Will Longstaff has scrawled his name in
the corner of another highly-colored commis-
sion, representing an incident in Gordon’s
“How We Beat the Favorite.” The public
is to be allowed to gaze on the work of art
for one brief fortnight, at Gill’s Studio, in
Centreway. The effort will probably be con-
demned by the new school of impressionists,
because it really means something, and can
be described in plain language. A rider in
pink is just passing a rival competitor in
pea-green. Both riders and horses are shown
in mid-air above an artistically-trimmed
ditch, the whole scene being designed to
illustrate the cantering line, “Between sky
and water, the brown came and caught her.”
It’s dreadfuly clever of Pink Shirt to have
“caught her,” as his gallant steed appears to
have put its forelegs out of gear at one of
the previous jumps. The picture is the pro-
perty of W. Grattan, of St. Kilda, who is
said to have conceived the subject and
bullied Will into doing it. As a matter of
fact, Longstaff always said that horses
weren’t in his line.
Artist Septimus Power is acting as one of
the judges of the National Gallery students’
brush efforts. When that important duty is
disposed of, he is off to take some shorthand
sketches of the Murray. He leaves for
London next March.
Your Johanna’s comments on the latest
Automobile Club happenings were suffici-
ently inaccurate (inaccuracy is the badge of
all my tribe) to wound the sporting feelings
of toot-tooting enthusiasts. The paragraphs
sinned in speaking of H. Y. McKay as a
“non-successful” competitor, addicted to
spills ; I am assured he is a persistent prize-
winner, and has been the luckiest of motor-
ists. All the time he has been petrolling he
has suffered only the one mishap, which
occurred near Nagambie when he was trying
to dodge a broken culvert. The car was
soon righted, and it won a principal race
later in the same week, with H.V. in per-
sonal command. He has never had a car
“explode in his face”; it was merely an
acetylene lamp that behaved so badly some
six months ago. At the ’Mobile Club’s hill-
climbing contest t’other Saturday the gallant
McKay gained the best formula result in one
of the classes, whilst another of his Vaux-
hall cars came third in the Open Event.
There was no hill-climb tooting at Mace-
don last year, but in 1911 H. Y. McKay won
the first prize, and two other Sunshine cars
followed him home.
Seems to me that the she-sexagettes, with
their flowing hats, easily begrimed draperies
and slim shoes, are as much interested as
the other fellows in “Durable, Dustless, Wat-
erproof Roadways.” A discourse on ideal
streets is to be delivered by Mr. T. H. Fffire
at the Masonic Hall on Thursday night.
He will explain a new method of dustless-
road construction ; but, seemingly, men only
are “courteously invited.” An infusion of
feminine element is certainly called for. It
is quite time that a league of determined
spinsters shrieked a protest against man-
made roads in dusty Melbourne.
Veronica Bedford, of the Marshall Hall
Conservatorium, shone at the Conserva-
torium concert both as contralto and com-
poser. Mrs. Weidermann has trained her
voice for the last four years, and both Mar-
shall ITall and Fritz Hart predict a career
for her as a composer. At the Auditorium
concert she sang Brahms’s “Sapphic Ode”
and one of her own songs, and other songs
of hers were sung by Violet Clark. Miss
Bedford will make her first Sydney appear-
ance next year.
The T. B. Ryan dame, in collaboration
with Mrs. Alec Boyd, gave a garden revel bf
some sort on the Boyds’ Auburn grassplot
last Friday. The favorite stunt of the
moment, at teas and other fatuous gather-
ings, is fortune-telling, and the she-suburbans
of Auburn and East Kew were thrilled in
turn by an expert futurist, who is being
rushed by the hostesses still in town. A
Zulu witch-doctor with some company man-
ners could make a lot of money by blithering
to our most expensive hatters.
Last Wednesday afternoon the local peer-
age spread its best chiffons and its alleged
Paris frock on the front lawn of the Arthur
Paynes’ Toorak place. The lady of the
mansion does not make a hobby of entertain-
ing, consequently the affair was a social sur-
prise. The hostess herself created little rip-
ples of feminine envy and waves of rage by
promenading in yards of painted chiffon
over a discreet quantity of satin.
The Brighton Williamsons’ Dutch daugh-
ter-in-law, who has been visiting her hus-
band’s family and parading her three infants
for inspection, is steaming back to South
Africa, where the Australian-born Alfred is
deputy-mayor or something equally disgrace-
ful.
The Norman Armytage matron recently
got the full value out of some expensive floral
decorations, ordered for a feminine midday
banauet, by inviting a second batch of friends
for afternoon tea and buns, a third squad for
an evening feed, and a fourth battalion for
a bridge orgy. By the time the bridge was
over, every blossom was fainting on its stem
and the violet was resting its forehead on its
roots.
Tennis champion Alf Dunlop will be
escorted on his sporting travels by Mrs. Alf
and the children, nurses and governesses-in-
waiting, and a few of the Treadway clan.
I wish somebody would say something in-
sulting about the people who select the
juvenile photos, for the Christmas numbers.
I bore up pretty well this year until I
struck a nightshirted boy standing on a
studio step. He held an unlighted candle in
one fist and a cheap doll in the other, and
he isn’t the right sort of small boy to be
published with advantage in his nightshirt,
for he isn’t chubby or winning, and his
forehead sticks out like an inflated balloon
over his professorial eyes. He is the sort of
child who will become a stooping suburban
chemist, with enormous spectacles and reli-
gious doubts. The other sort of kid who is
thrown at the public during the overfeeding
season is the fat, stolid sub-flapper with her
hair tied up in 14 Chinese puzzles with
lengths of ribbon. Nine times out of 10 she
is shown at the telephone, above the banal
title, “Speaking to Daddy.” Sometimes she
is holding the collar of a massive, three-
volume dog, with a long, hairy face. This
enormous animal seems to be kept alive from
year to year for this one degraded purpose.
The label in this case is always “Friends.”
Then there is the smirking, actressy type
of fluffy girl-child, with her frizzled head set
at a woodenly coquettish angle by the per-
spiring photographer. She is least offensive
when she is simply “Father’s Girl” ; but I
have met her as “Sweetheart,” or “Our
Treasure.” There was one terrible yeai
when she was “Darling” in one rag and
“Dumpkins” in another. That was the year
I most wanted to smack her. I suppose
suburbanites deserve this sort of thing, or
they wouldn’t get it regularly, year after
year.
English women story-tellers are working
the white slave traffic for all it is worth—
and more. In one of the latest—“ The
Shadow of the Dragon,” by Cecilia Moore—
the heroine is Hepsie McLeod, the “beauty”
of an Australian liner, who is travelling in
the steerage. The swells of the first-class
saloon loiter around her like bees on a honey-
suckle. She has “hair of a Titian auburn
and a skin like strawberries and cream.”
But a couple of white slavers on board have
marked her down for their prey. They
entice her ashore at Colombo, whither she is
kidnapped to Shanghai, whence she is
rescued after some thrilling adventures by a
young English lord whom, of course, she
marries. All roads lead to the altar when
a woman, writing for flapperdom, is the
surveyor.
“Rosna’s” line or two from London:—
Harold Colonna, playing Dunois in “Joan of Arc”
at Covent Garden, is alleged to be the tallest tenor
on the operatic stage, there being well over two
yards of him. He is also the first Australian tenor
to play a leading part in Covent Garden. A chip of
the Marshall Hall Conservatorium, he appears to have
a lucky star. After three years’ study in London, a
kind-hearted millionaire came along and despatched
him, carriage-paid, to Paris for a year or two. He
studied with Duvernoy and Hettich, gave a concert in
Paris, and then jumped straight into the lead for
the Covent Garden season. He is to play in “Faust”
and “Lohengrin,” and be Don Jose in “Carmen.”
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
The Colley-Stirling wedding will occur in January
at the Pier Hotel, Glenelg. Which reminds me that
Miss Kathleen, the second of the W. H. Phillipps
daughters, has consented to enter for the Great Gam-
ble with Mr. “Willie” Dean. There is now but one
member of the G. H. Dean clan matrimonially un-
accounted for. Really, no one is safe these marriage-
able times.
The new Rhodes scholar is Alan Morey. He is only
20, and is thus the youngest S. Australian to win
the scholarship. His mother and a younger brother
are going to England with him.
Dr. Burgess’s place as secretary of the Children’s
Hospital has been filled by Mr. W. H. Sharland, who
was for a good' many years in the service of the
South Australian Co. Dr. H. Gilbert and Dr. Risch-
beith are the new honorary surgeons.
The old Royal Exchange, wherein the Common-
wealth Bank is situated, was nearly wiped out by
fire on Tuesday evening. Also, the Register office
had a close shave. It is separated from the old Ex-
change by only the sort of narrow lane that a healthy
fire leaps across with ease.
The artistic Follen Bishops are at Victor Harbor.
The Oldest Inhabitant has sworn an affidavit that
the locality hasn’t been painted so comprehensively
and well since civilisation started to dawn there.
The H. P. Gills left for the Island Home of the
maddened Suffragette in the Benalla on Tuesday.
When they tear themselves away it will be by a
devious homeward route, comprising Switzerland and
Italy.
The Finches are leaving us, not only for Brisbane,
but for good.
Mr. Thomas Rhodes, who has been president of the
State Children’s Council for 22 years, resigned at the
last meeting. He and the Charles Goode knight are
the only remaining members of the second council,
which was appointed 25 years ago.
Francois Pinard, who has been in business here for
30 odd years, holds a medal for things he did in the
Franco-Prussian war of ’7O and ’7l. He was in
Paris during the siege, a festive period when fried
horse was a luxury and fricassee of large grey rat a
thing attainable only by the most bloated of pluto-
crats. One effect has been to make him as furious
a defence enthusiast as any man in Australia.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


'0 r
Good Gracious
BURQ lapis !
WHY
DlO NT
X BUT
1 TH PT
REVOLVER?
<§> ,
WHAT TO KAVPY THOaSHT'
SCHWEPPES SOtiA WATER BcJETLE.
AsT HIS HEAP
l ••
HANDS UP .
(|} /f v
Ey-VTISYKES
® boot,' ’ "
in the; sottu€. T tsevEß -
Ll KE To V/POSTE a CHOP of
. "
AUGUSTUS POP DISTURBED BY BURGLARS.


For all parts of your
Motor Gar
Bon Ami removes the dirt only-
polishes beautifully, and will not
scratch.
—— For
Bathrooms
Bon Ami
is the best
for tiling,
marble,
enamel
and
porcelain
&
Just try it in your bathroom.
[3
THe World’s Best.
DAIMLER
Motor Lorry.
Silent Knight Engine.
Shaft Drive Wo Chains.
SUNSHINE
Motor Cars P*t*y
Melbourne.
Hugh V. McKay, Sydney & Adelaide
J
Sole
Agents^
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
IN TOPHET.
These are the selectors who depleted their
country's timber by fire in order to make one
blade of grass grow where two trees grew
before.
“Gouger” : There is a spider in N.Q. that
always carries his life-saving apparatus with him.
Often in the rainy season he, in company with his
household effects, wife and other encumbrances,
is blown into the river. The spider then
produces a web and shapes a light bal-
loon on the end of it. A breeze springs up, the
balloon rise? slowly, the spider pays out the line,
and in ' time the balloon catches on an overhanging
branch, or on the mainland. The proprietor tightens
the line, and makes it fast to the log, or island, or
drowned missionary, or any other old affair he may
be stranded on. Then he climbs the hawser, and
commences the perils of life afresh.
“Silver Morn”: Lawyers have their uses
occasionally. Joe and I had just finished a fencing
contract and decided to have a few weeks’ spell at
the township. With a cheque for £2O and a few odd
sovereigns in his pocket, Joe waltzed me into the
Shearers’ Arms at the conclusion of a 16-mile walk.
Pretty soon he was well corned. Being a mild drinker,
I suggested that he should give me his cheque to look
after in case somebody balanced him for it, but he
told me he had already given it into the care of the
publican until the morning. When the morning came
and Joseph went for his wherewithal, the pub-keeper
indignantly denied having ever seen it. He was quite
annoyed about it, and, as Joe couldn’t remember any
witnesses of the transaction (if there were any), it
seemed clear that Joe was nailed. However, we went
over to the solitary lawyer of the place (he happened
to be a friend of mine), and explained the case. He
shook his head. “You’re done,” he said and sat
tapping his table, reflectively. Looking up suddenly
he exclaimed, “Dam ait, it’s fair, anyhow. Knock
about town to-day, have a drink now and again at
the pub where you are staying, pay for them on the
spot, but keep perfectly sober, and come to me at
five o’clock this evening.” Joe followed his instruc-
tions, and five o’clock found us once more within the
office. The lawyer handed my mate £4O in five- and ten-,
pound notes, with the following instructions. “About
eight o’clock to-night pretend to be pretty drunk,
take a friend with you to the pub, shout him a drink
or two, and while he is with you at the bar, hand
over to the publican these notes to look after for you,
until the morning. In the morning early, when you
can secure an opportunity of catching the boss alone,
ask him for your £4O. If he gives you the money,
count it before leaving the bar, and bring it to me,
but be sure that there is no one else about when you ask
for it.” Joe acted accordingly, got the money early
in the morning (the publican knew that in the event
of his refusal to part up Joe had a witness to
straighten things) and handed it over to the lawyer.
“Now,” said the Gent One, “get your witness of last
night, go to the pub scoundrel, and ask him for the
£4O you left with him overnight. If he refuses to
pay, summon him.” When Joe asked Bung to part up
the 40 quidlets a second time, the wrath of that
party was like a locomotive falling down a precipice.
He refused abso(blanky)lutely to pay over; so Joe
conveyed the argument to the local law court, where,
after carefully sifting the evidence, the P.M. gave
a verdict for the plaintiff. Mr. Public House’s few
subsequent remarks to Joe and me (I happened to be
Joe’s witness) glowed with ardor. They glowed so
much that I was afraid they’d set fire to the verdict
in my hip pocket, so we moved on to a milder
climate.
* * * *
“Oesten”: The cuckoo isn’t the only
loafer of the bush. I was once camped on the banks
of the Three Moon Creek. In the branches of the
big, gum under which we were sheltered was a pee-
wit’s nest. At feeding time I noticed that one of
the infants in the nursery was twice as large as the
others; and on closer inspection discovered it to be
a young storm-bird. As. the storm-bird and the
peewit are about as much alike as a gridiron and a
grindstone, I am puzzled to know why the old ’un did
not tumble to the deception and pass the intruder
out.
* * * *
“Gordon G.”: Here’s another yarn con-
nected with the Burke and Wills expedition which
has not yet been told, I fancy. A camel escaped
from the party near the Cooper’s Creek dep6t, and
wandered over in the direction of one of the small
settlements near Mount Hopeless. The first human
being it caught sight of was a
big buck Binghi asleep under a
gumtree. He was supposed to be
tailing cattle. The beast of bur-
den seemed to recognise an old
friend—probably it had in mind
some ancient Afghan driver. Any-
way, it sauntered along noiselessly
on its spongy soles till it got
right up to the abo. ; whereupon
it proceeded to lick him with a
long, thick, rasp-like tongue.
Jimmy Baboon (that was Binghi’s
appellation) had been suffering
from one of the worst varieties of
jimjams during the preceding
week. He screamed with terror
as he opened his eyes and gazed
on what he thought was the last
word in bunyips and debbil-deb-
bils. Then he raced for home,
five miles off, with the faithful
quadruped in close pursuit. It’s
a solemn fact that Jimmy didn’t
speak to a living soul for three
months after that experience.
When he at last recovered he
cracked one of his wives’ skulls to celebrate his re-
turn to sanity, and wound up his career in plain,
blank, unromantic quod.
* * * *
“Wallaby”: A mystified man up this way
is inquiring the relationship between a homing
pigeon and a plain hairy old goat. The lighthouse-
keeper at Point Charles (near Darwin, N.T.) has
a large flock of nannies, and recently introduced a
couple of angora gentlemen. On arrival at the
lighthouse the immigrants were tied up with the
rest of the herd for about a week, and then let out
with the mob to feed. The old nannies came home,
but no sign of the squires. Exhaustive search by a
mob of Binghis revealed tracks some five miles dis-
tant, and another five miles brought the trackers to
what was left of the two goats. They had set out
on an 80-mile journey, and when found were going,
as the crow flies, in a direct line for home and
mother, when they provided a meal for a mob of
dingoes.
AN OUTBACK SYMPHONY.
MILDURA, Friday.—Camels left the Murray
bank, opposite Mildura, to-day with beer for
Pooncarie, on the Darling.
—Melbourne paver
ORACE : " Notes them
canels ’as a pecooliar
hodor , Halbert?”
HALBERT (fervently):
“ Yep, very pEcooliar. I
could live on it fer th'
rest o’ me nal' ral."
"Cleveland”: Tlie Torres Strait native is
really an aquatic fowl. During the unpleasantness in
January last, which played skittles with the Inna-
mineka and Palmer, and sent the Dancing Wave to
her last port, a Murray Islander named Douglas left
the Yarrabah Mission Station (near Cairns, N.Q)
to try to reach Cairns in a motor launch measuring
35ft. overall. lie had two black brethren with him,
and had got nearly as far as False Cape when the
two brethren, not liking the solid chunks of atmo-
sphere that were flying round, mutinied and swam
ashore. Douglas then decided to meet the cyclone
on its native heath right where he was, so he
dropped the kellick and sat tight. About one next
morning he discovered that the anchor was not hold-
ing, so he gave her another small hedge, and tried
to remember how the Lord’s Prayer began. The
anchors still dragged, so Douglas fashioned two
stakes and went over the side, down the anchor
chains, and staked both anchors to the bottom.
THE LUCKY ONE.
COHEN : “Here goes Coldberg. Der luckiest
man vot is. Everything he puts his hand
to ends in smoke."
He then climbed back aboard and went to sleep.
Next morning, when it was all over, the two brethren
swam off and begged to be taken back as prodigals
for whom the fatted dugong should be slain. This
was agreed to on their forfeiting a week’s pay for
being absent without leave. Now, if any unbeliever
wants proof of this, Douglas will bear me out, and
I can show the stakes that were used, and the
anchors that were staked; and if he goes on dis-
believing, I’ll take him and show him the place
where the staking was done.
(Continued on page 24. J
A-THINTUN’.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
No wedded woman in the land
A heart more joyful carried,
When, after many sought my ’and,
My Tom an’ me was married.
But long those ’appy marriage bells
’Ave ceased their ’appy chinkin’.
An’ in the loneliest of 'ells
I sit, an’ do be thinkin’.
The times was ’ard, but Tom was brave,
An’ I was strong for fightin’—
Ah, God! the womanhood I gave
That I ’is load might lighten.
The fight was fierce —’e gave it up,
An’ then he took to drinkin’;
So now I drain ’is bitter cup,
An’ sit ’ere, lonely, thinkin’.
The children came, as children do—
An’ God knows ’ow I loved them!
The world it was, not me, that to
Perdition’s edges shoved them.
I swear they never ’ad a chance;
The Bush was alwiz clinkin’
The awful chain of circumstance
That binds me ’ere, a-thinkin’.
Young Jack (’ow Mem’ry tortures me!) —
I can’t forget the feelin’:
The way my poor ’eart bled when ’e
Was gaoled for cattle-stealin’.
I often see it all again,
The ’eart within me sinkin’—
I feel again the chokin’ pain
When I sit ’ere a-thinkin’.
Then Mary gave ’er trust to Jim
When ’e with soft words sought ’er
(Let God forgive the sin of ’im,
But I’ll forgive my daughter).
They shroud the secret, but I know
That even now she’s slinkin’
Along a pavement, to and fro,
While I sit ’ere a-thinkin’.
An’ little Will (my eyes grow wet)
Ten years ago went drovin’;
’E’s never written to me yet—
I wonder where ’e’s rovin’.
’E said ’e’d think of “mummy dear,”
’ls sleepy eyes a-blinkin’—
I see it all through many a tear,
As I sit ’ere a-thinkin’.
Maybe it’s all what God ordains,
An’ p’r’aps it don’t much matter;
The children come in mother’s pains,
They grow—and then they scatter.
Yet sometimes in the embers cleft
I see their dear eyes winkin’—
The boys an’ girls who grew, an’ left
An’ old Bush mother thinkin’.
N.S.W.
R. J. CASSTDY.
“Eddysoii” : This is a story of luck —of
luck in which you and 1 don’t believe for one
moment. At Sandfly the hunt for the reef had been
going on for close upon 20 years, and Billy Lees
was the most assiduous hunter. Billy was only 36,
but he had commenced prospecting at 17, and he was
still at it, and as enthusiastic as when he had d”g
his first trench. Billy Lees had no other vice; he
was prodigal in nothing besides. He worked bard at
any old job that offered until he had accumulated
money for another prospe ting orgy, and then he had
one more dash at the con pletion of his grand scheme
of bisecting the ridge witi. .’sittings. A man couldn’t
miss it in those circumstances, he said, unless he
had the luck of a scalded cat. The reef had out-
cropped somewhere at Sandfly at some time; stray
old weather-worn specimens had been picked up, and
the alluvial along Weeping Creek had contained gold-
bearing stone. Every pioneer had a specimen or
two as a sort of guarantee of good faith. A com-
pany had put down a deep shaft, the diamond drill
had been at work in the district for 16 months, and
a score of ancient miners had wasted years
of their lives trenching Sandfly and miles of high
adjacent country without result. The new genera-
tion was bitingly satirical about the alleged quartz
lode. They regarded faith in its existence as an
indication of long-standing insanity, consequently
Billy Lees came in for many gibes. He stood the
elderly wheezes very well from most people; but
when Andy Jamieson began to throw off, Billy grew
restive, and eventually ended the matter by punching
Andy fair and hard on his rather prominent nose.
Andy put up a sort of a fight, but was finished in
less than half a round. You see, Andy was some-
thing of a new chum, and derision seemed to come
rather badly from a Scotch cockney who didn’t know
a quartz specimen from a cowslip. Besides, Lees
had been rather generous to Jamieson when he first
came into the district, had “lapsed” one hundred
acres of pretty good land to enable “Jammy” t®-
take it over, and had given him the two-roomed slab
hut built on the rise above Weeping Creek. In addi-
tion to all of which Andrew was now doing well with
poultry, and promising to do better with fruit, and
was going strong with Mary Billings, between whom
and Billy a sort of an engagement had existed for
two years past. But Andy was only 27, and looked
like being a fine provider, and Billy was 36, and
still wasting his substance in fanatical quest of the
Rainbow, which was the name given to the undis-
covered lode. No wonder Billy punched Andrew on
the nose. Andrew continued to jest in a Scotch-
cockney accent about Billy’s fatuous hunt, but he no
longer did it in Billy’s presence; he reserved his
choice humor for the edification of Miss Billings. A
month later came the announcement of the engage-
ment of Andrew and Mary. It was a hard knock on
the chin for Billy, but he put a good face on the
matter. When they were married Lees went on a
prospecting expedition along the Fly, and worked
harder than he had ever done before in his life. On
his return he found Sandfly in a state of unwonted
excitement. Weeble met him at the bridge. “Same
old luck, ’ said Billy. Weeble looked him sadly in
the eye. “Ain’t you heard?” he said. “Heard
what ?” “They’ve cut the reef.” “My God! you
don’t say. Where?” “Here.” “Who found her?”
“Andy Jamieson.” “Andy Jamieson!” Billy stared
at his friend like a man partially dilly. “Yes,” said
Weeble; “he struck it just nine inches under the
floor of your old kitchen in the slab hut the morning
of his wedding. The land is pegged out for miles
along the line.” Then Billy Lees left Sandfly.
Heaven knows where he went.


SIEM E N S
;V ;
s? W'
Wi
*, -
■
r
I
(?
%, ■
Hil
. *-' ■'
a; 3t
.... i -i
Type—R.
A Motor
for Steady
“Siemens” Induction Motors have a
big record for reliable service. The
cooling capacity is very large, and
ensures cool running under all normal
conditions. They can even stand a
25% overload for two hours, 50% for
half an hour, or 100% momentarily.
Their rigid construction and compact
design make them desirable for all
industrial purposes. For work requir-
ing long runs that will not permit
of frequent motor inspection, they
are ideal.
Available with squirrel-cage or slip-
ring rotors, and all with ring
lubrication.
For further particulars get our list
102.7. it gives all details of this
R Type of Induction Motor.
Siemens Bros. Dynamo Works, Ltd.,
42 Bridge St., Sydney; 59-61 William St., flelbourne.
?VR[P
A Great
Profit-
Maker
where used in
Hotels.
The Nelson “Banker”
Carbonating Machine is a
REAL Profitmaker —not
a sham. It doesn’t know
what Union hours mean
—it’ll work the 24 hours
a day if you like —and
NEVER cause any
trouble.
As an investment it’s the best that ANY Hotelkeeper can make. Only
refer to the most SUCCESSFUL Hotelkeepers all over Australia for absolute
PROOF of this. It will make for £4 what costs £2O from the manufacturer.
Surely this is convincing enough for any man ; surely no man on earth could want
more for his money! We can substantiate this claim —in any PRACTICAL way
you like.
We would never have received the hundreds of letters we have, strongly and
convincingly praising the “BANKER,” if it were not the grand Machine we
say it is.
Made of Flawless Materials, is simple to handle and cannot give trouble. If
you’ve real, RED business blood in your veins, you won’t have a minute’s rest
till you have investigated. Particulars sent free.
LINES WE CARRY.
Iceless Soda Fountains, Draft
Arms, Counter Sprays, all kinds of
Soda Water Machines, Fountain
Accessories, Syrups, Nelson Fruit
Juices, Concentrated Syrups, Es-
sences, etc., etc.
NELSON SODA FOUNTAINS,
The finest Soda Fountains in the
world are those bearing the name
“NELSON.” This is no idle boast.
Australian and International ex-
perts have freely and fully com-
mended us. Let us convince you.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
NELSON’S CARBONATING CO., LTD.
167 GEORGE STREET (Circular Quay), SYDNEY.
Beauty’s Favourite.
The article which excels all others
in improving the beauty of tbe skin
is naturally and deservedly beauty's
favourite. Tbis bas been tbe
acknowledged and honoured
position beld by Pears* Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and bas
maintained tbat position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by tbe
possession of tbose special emollient
properties wbicb soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to tbe
skin. No other soap possesses
these qualities in such a pre*
eminent degree as
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.


‘22 Rim Fire Cartridges
SHORT. LONG. LONG RIFLE.
No Corrosion.
Slight Pressure and High Velocity.
Uniformity Guaranteed.
Highest Grade of English Manufacture
Wholesale only—
Scottish House, 90 William Street,
MELBOURNE.
Kynoch House, 277 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY. [1
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE—
-14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-560-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOORNE.
STOMACH TROUBLES.
Laxo-Tonic Pills are a most effective remedy for
Biliousness and all irregularities of the stomach and
bowels. They act quickly and effectually, without
weakening the system, as is the case with most medi-
cines jused for these troubles. Price, 10Jd. and Is. 6d.
Obtainable everywhere.*
Fire, Marine, Accident, Live Stock.
AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
EVERY BUSHMAN
Should have a copy of
this 800k —IT’S FKEE
It tells all about Emas-
culating Colts, Branding
and Earmarking Cattle,
Dehorning Calves, Spay-
ing Cows, about Prevent-
ing Pleuro, Mammitis,
and Blackleg, about Im-
pregnating Barren
Mares and Cows.
Teaches you Horse
Dentistry and other
useful knowledge.
This Valuable Book is
Posted FREE. Write
for your Copy NOW.
CARL ZOELLER
246 Queen St.
Brisbane, Q.
Established 1596.
RS
ZOE
CA
“P.H.”: The argument as to whether
townsmen or bushies read most cannot be settled
in “Albion’s” offhand style (B. 27/10/T3). The
reading habit varies in the bush. In Southern
Riverina, in the middle ’7o’s, every man and most
women were readers of fiction. On every station
there was a little library, usually run privately by
the storekeeper. Every general store in the town-
ships sold and exchanged books. Every hawker had
a few hundred volumes in stock. Sixpence a volume
was charged for exchanging. Swagmen often carried
two or three volumes apiece. Almost the first ques-
tion whalers asked when they met was, “What books
have you?” The favorite authors were such as
Dickens, Scott, Wilkie Collins, Charles Reade, Cap-
tain Marryat, Bulwer Lytton, Charles Lever, Alex.
Dumas, Victor Hugo and Eugene Sue. Byron,
Moore and Scott were the favorite poets. I met
scores of men who had read and could criticise
entertainingly more than half the works of all
these writers. A fair percentage were familiar
with the poets, and a larger number were conversant
with the incidents of the American Civil War and
the Franco-Prussian War. Napoleon and Welling-
ton, Gladstone and Disraeli, Henry Parkes and John
Robertson, had well-informed and enthusiastic ad-
mirers. Slush lamps often burned in the huts till
the small hours, to enable some fascinated devotee
to finish a novel. Conversation in the bends fre-
quently turned to literature, to the exclusion of cod,
bream, catfish and the liberality of sundry cooks
and storekeepers. On the other hand, in the sum-
mer of ’76-’77, I found the reading proclivities or
non-proclivities of the Tumut and Monaro workers
just as “Gip” (B. 20/11/’l3) says they are now.
On South-Western Queensland cattle stations in ’7B-
- I found readers few and far between, but the
exceptions were bright. Stockmen spent their leisure
talking shop, plaiting whips and “specking” opal.
The group of readers —rfbout 10—devoured Austra-
lian and British weeklies and periodicals, and read
pretty widely in fiction, poetry, history, biography
and philosophy. It was in this company—the best
I have ever met —I read Darwin's “Origin of
Species” and “Descent of Man,” Macaulay’s and
Gibbon’s histories, and saw my first copy of The
Bulletin. Then followed a period of deadness on
West Queensland sheep stations, with not a book to
be seen, till the great strikes of ’9O and ’9l turned
the attention of the workers to economics. Bel-
lamy’s “Looking Backward” and Blatchford’s “Merrie
England” then led in a new stream of literature
which increased in volume till I left the West in
1898. Next, a year in the N.Q. sugar country. Not
a book to be seen there. Nothing but work and
sleep. Blank ignorance and stupidity all around.
Now, as regards city workmen. Few read books.
A half-hour’s glance daily at the morning or evening
papers satisfies them. The attendance at Prahran
Free Library—a very good one—of easy access seven
days a week to a population of 60,000 or 70,000,
does not average 100 a day. But trade unions, pub-
lic speaking and picture shows supply education of
a sort. On the other hand, nearly every metropoli-
tan woman reads novels. Even the weary housewife
finds “surcease from sorrow” in penny “stories.”
“Caius Marius’': “A.G.” (B. 13/11/T3)
states that “the Adelaide River is a large stream
infested with alligators.” As a matter of fact
there are no alligators outside America and China.
A HUNT CLUB EPISODE.
MICKO : "So yer chucked Stinker outer the
club?”
DICKO : “ Yairs. The loon riz up ter thank
ole Mother Solomons , our patroness, for de
deener donation she slung us, an' mucked
it up a treat by makin' reference ter de
proverb, 'Don’t milk de ole cow dry .’”
The crocodile (O. porosus ) which belongs to Aus-
tralia is very similar to the sacred saurian of the
Ganges. In the alligator the hind legs have no
fringe, and there is no web on the toes. The
canine teeth fit into a pit on the outside of the
top jaw, whereas the canine teeth of the crocodile
actually protrude through two holes in the jaw
itself. The Northern croc, has five toes on the
fore feet, and four on the hind, each of the three
inner toes on all the feet being armed with a claw.
Professor Baldwin Spencer, when lecturing in Syd-
ney recently, made a wild statement that there
were alligators in Queensland, which induces from
me a loud adverb of negation against the authority
who denied the eucalypt its popular name, gum-
tree, and "denounced the bushman’s sacred name
for the tree-climbing marsupial, the ’possum.
LONG SUFFERING.
VISITOR (to the rising town of Bullegobingo): “And I believe you boast of a choral
society , too. ”
PATIENT CITIZEN: " No, we do not boast of it. We are resigned."
“Kodak”: Has the cow a soul —and a
conscience? Is it troubled with doubts, like those
jumpy Russian novelists who explain their souls and
how they wear them in 600 pages of close print, to
the utter confusion of reviewers? What is the
difference between a cow and a
Russian novelist? Does the dif-
ference lie in the one strange,
beautiful fact that the cow can't
write about its soul? And (finally)
could the soul-explanatory Russian
novelist explain the cow's spacious
soul, if he were allowed six
volumes to do it in ? These queries
are prompted by the news that a
cow of Gisborne (Vic.), whose
milk yield had fallen away to
half the usual amount, suddenly
went mad (or sane), and galloped
through several paddocks and
three wire fences before jumping
a 6ft. hawthorn hedge into the
ground of the Catholic presbytery.
My opinion is that the conscience-
stricken cow suddenly discovered
that it had a soul and hurried
off to consult his Reverence about
it. But, before it could do so, it
was shot by a policeman named
Murphy, who probably attends
Mass regularly under the mis-
taken impression that he has something to save.
* * * *
“Warrien”: The bushman can’t help
being unconventional. Even when he is calling a
public meeting he gets out of the rut. For in-
stance, this notice, placarded on a tree in our
district: —-
LABOR.
Messrs. Smithers and McMullen will be here
Saturday night. Come any time after 7 o’clock.
The yarn starts at 8 o’clock. Accommodation
guaranteed.
There was no doubt about the accommodation —
millions of acres of it.
“Whip-Poor-Will”: Shelford (Vic.) and
district are making a big willow tree on the bank
of the Leigh River a sort of shrine. In 1853 ex-army
Capt. Ormond, in a tour of the world, paid a visit
to Napoleon’s grave, and secured a cutting from the
weeping willow over the Man of Destiny’s resting
place. He brought the stick out to Australia with
him, struck Shelford (then a halting place for wag-
gons travelling to and from the Ballarat diggings)
and planted the cutting on the bank of the Leigh,
where it has thrived wonderfully. As a picturesque
sight the willow fairly loses S.A.’s old gumtree at
Glenelg.
“Lagani-Namo”: When a death occurs
among the Papuans of the Bartholomew Range coun-
try the body is put on a platform in the village,
and a leaf is placed on its breast. It is then man-
oeuvred so that the feet point toward the various
neighboring villages in turn. The corpse is asked
whether anyone in such village is responsible for its
deadness. If the leaf blows off, the people know
that someone in that village pourri-pourried (magi-
cally slew) their brother. On one occasion a woman
had died, and some of her connections, in passing
through another village where a dance was in pro-
gress, saw her ghost cavorting among the perform-
ers. They got up a full head of steam and sprinted
home to their own village constable, who set out
instanter, arrested three of the likeliest-looking canni-
bals, and dragged them through streams and over
mountains to the Resident Magistrate on a charge of
murder. When the R.M. ordered their acquittal and
release the native V.C. poured out his disgust and
tore home raving about kava-kava (silly) white men
who don’t know evidence when they see it.
L.L). . 1 alking of r whale in r match-
box,” said Mackaboy, the ambidextrous and versa
tile pump hand behind the bar, “what do you think
■of a lion in a wardrobe? It all happened to Clar-
ence Bartlot, drummer, representing Umber, Umber
and Nicholson, American tinned stuff and mixed
groceries. Clarence was a fair man, with a
trim figure, a large, lucent eye of forget-me-not
blue, a rich, Saxon complexion, and a nest of the
sweetest blonde whiskers that ever blew. He came
to do the Wimmera with a carload of cases ham-
pers and bags, and made Joseph’s hotel at Hamilton
his head centre. From there he radiated in 17
directions, working a winning smile that was the
envy of every bagman south of the equator, and
laying a two-foot deposit of Chicago pork and beans
in country that had hitherto been humbly content
with mutton and scraps of superannuated bullock
On the third night of his stay at Joseph’s, Clarence
Bartlot was disturbed in the midst of refreshing
dreams of orders by a curious purring sound below
his window. Clarence had a health fad about open-
air sleeping, and his windows gaped their utmost.
Angered by the persistence of the purr, our Mr
Bartlot arose and flocked to the window. What he
saw caused him to retreat with marked unanimity
So precipitately did he retire upon his base that he
tripped over a rug, and hit the hotel. At the same
moment a large, dark object loomed against the
crescent moon, and hurled itself with unnecessary
violence through the open window. The large lion
for such it was, missed Clarence Bartlot by a hare’s
length, and was hurled head-first against the mir-
rored door of a great oak wardrobe. The door
caved in, and the king of beasts went with it;
but it rocked off its balance, came over, and crashed
down on top of the lion, its unhinged door just
accommodating Leo. The net result of these pro-
ceedings was an adult male lion imprisoned in a
orostrate wardrobe. With readiness of mind not at
all remarkable in a commercial traveller, Clarence
hurled half a ton of his case goods on top, and
added his own 14 stone. Then he began to emit
sounds. I was one of the first to respond, and,
gathering that Mr. Bartlot had some desire to
weigh down the wardrobe, I swung the iron bed
across it, and Clarry and I added the chest of
drawers and then surmounted the pile with our
own proper persons. While the rest of the hotel
was stirring like a ravaged anthill and making
passionate outcry about fire and thieves, Bartlot
and P. Mackaboy listened to the strange sounds
emanating from the wardrobe, strange, crunching,
gluttonous sounds. ‘Mother in Heaven!’ whispered
Clarence, ‘he’s eating my samples.’ It appeared to
be so. The sounds we heard were identical with
those a strenuous beast of the cat tribe would make
in squeezing the nutriment out of large tins of
potted hog. ‘Swosh’ went a tin, and Leo slopped
and sloshed like a recently-enriched bookmaker tak-
ing in a quart of Scotch broth and two plates of
Irish stew. ‘There goes one bag of potted prawns,’
sighed Clarence, ‘and a suit case of Chicago stewed
frankfurts to follow.’ Clarence had stowed some
hampers of samples in the wardrobe, and no reason-
able doubt remained ; Leo was taking in the nutri-
ment and was in no haste to get out. He had come
home to a late dinner of six courses, and meanwhile
his business with C. Bartlot could wait. Eventu-
ally the policeman and seventeen lion-hunters from
Gaylor’s Circus came along, and took all responsi-
bility off our hands. Clarence and I joined the
proprietor and the rest of the regular lodgers on
the roof and the chimneys, till Leo was enticed
out of the wardrobe, which did not happen till he
had mopped up all Bartlot’s edible samples and
wiped his obscene whiskers with the drummer’s dress
clothes.”
HIC-SUNDAY
In a recent N.S.W. law appeal the Judge
decided that a sale of goods made through a
slot-machine on the Sabbath did not constitute
Sunday “trading
“Larrikin”: What wonder that native
game is disappearing? Less than two years ago,
on the Ashburton (W.A.), I saw one consignment
of 7000 kangaroo skins! In Queensland on one
station alone, 785 dingoes, 10,465 kangaroos am
75,989 wallabies were brought to the receiver * n
months. One scalper, who employed a large number
of hands, white and discolored, brought in 43,720
wallaby scalps.
A DAINTY DISH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Both inland and coastal tribes practise cannibal-
ism. The inland tribes boil their captives. On the
Kikori prisoners of war are roasted, the river tribes
despising inland methods of cookery.
-—Papuan official report.
Where bucks have mops of fuzzy hair
And clothes are worn by few or none;
Where black’s the girl they label fair
And fighting counts for purest fun;
Where meat’s a diet hardly won
By stalwart braves who bludgeons swing,
You’ll hear them chant when battling’s done
“A Roasted Foeman is the Thing!”
The coastal warrior leaves his lair
And dances jocund in the sun,
And romps to battle huge and bare,
His heaven on earth a fight begun.
With mighty blows that crush and stun
He breaks the inland warriors’ ring,
And howls behind them as they run;
“A Roasted Foeman is the Thing!”
For boiling let the hillmen care,
A race whose life is dull and dun ;
But river-folk love dainty fare
And paltry stews and bakings shun;
Not furious Frank nor fiery Hun
Could mightier blows in battle fling
Than these who cry from sire to son:
“A Roasted Foeman is the Thing!”
Envoi.
Of lordly dishes many a one
Do cunning cooks concoct and bring;
But fierce Kikori takes the bun—-
A Roasted Foeman is the Thing !
QUEENSLAND.
P. FLAM.


vif#
V
rr
m
*1
:fc.-
'V
V
w.
*
i
11
m
k
m
si i
w
C-O-B-R-A Tshe Boot PolisK
Tiunder Loo
Of Akim Foo
Swims within
The ocean blue.
Takes a white pearl
And is able
Wizard-like to
Make it sable.
Then an oyster
In great glee
Blesses “COBRA”
’Neath the sea.


Sanatogen Brings New
Health and Nerve Force.
“ I have used Sanatogen with extra-
ordinary benefit. It is to my mind a true
food tonic, feeding the nerves, increasing
the energy, and giving fresh vigour to the
overworked body and mind.”
These words by Sir Gilbert Parker, M.P.,
the well-known author, have a helpful
meaning for you —if you need real help in
one of those crises of life when your health
is giving you anxiety.
They echo a sentiment of gratitude which
is expressed in many different ways in
thousands upon thousands of letters from
men and women who owe to Sanatogen new
strength and vitality.
The Rt. Hon. Sir John Gorst, member of Hi*
Majesty’s Privy Council, writes: “ Sir John
Gorst wishes to say he has long been acquainted
with the great merits of Sanatogen -has taken
it with excellent results, and when necessary
will certainly take it again. It was also used
by a daughter of his with great benefit.”
To you who are run down, nervous or
weak —to you who are less than yourself —
Sanatogen will bring new health. To you
whose nerves have gone wrong, and whose
appetite or sleep or capacity for work are
impaired, Sanatogen comes as a rescuing
sustainer, a revitalising force, a feeder of
nerves and tissues.
Write to-day for a Free Booklet, entitled
“ The Art of Living,” to Messrs. A. Wulfing
& Co., 17, Bond Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Kindly mention this paper when writing.
All Chemists sell Sanatogen, price 2s. 6d.,
3s. 6d. and 6s. 6d. per tin.
■mu
' ' • :
S-
«*r
a.
>3
r&
»
The Commonwealth, having gathered in
Papua's brown skins, is now arranging for
the absorption of the faintly-tinctured
people of Norfolk Island. The strain de-
rived from the mutineers and dark skins in
the Pitcairn days caused Fisher to go slow
when absorption was broached; but the
Cook Government has taken it on. The
little island has been hawked and buffeted
about for nearly a century. For years it
was identified with tragedies—mainly be-
cause it had been a depot for murderers.
When the British Government tore it away
from N.S.W. and attached it to Tasmania,
worse followed. Now, however, all is quiet:
the simple life takes the place of lurid de-
lirium. Officials in the old days, even when
they got away from the island, didn’t get
away from its evil fortune. The first
magistrate sent from Tasmania was drowned
on return, and its last was murdered at
Pentridge.
“Watch Below”: The Volturno tragedy
rams home the weak points of a liner’s boat
equipment. What sense is there in yelling
about “Boats for All” when a rough sea
smashes them as quickly as they can be
slung over the side? A modern steamer
doesn’t carry real seamen; and it takes a
full crew of expert oarsmen to pull a boat
clear of a rolling hull, especially when half
the boats have to be launched to windward,
and a 70-mile blow and a billion-ton sea are
at work. As a liner doesn’t carry the neces-
sary oarsmen there is only one thing to be
done —Insist that they carry mechanical
power. The Boats and Davits Committee
appointed after the Titanic disaster (which,
if it had occurred in a Volturno sea, would
almost certainly have resulted in the smash
of every boat and the drowning of every
soul) recommended that a liner should
carry one or more motor life-boats. There
is no difficulty in finding efficient marine
motors. They exist now, and will work
effectively at any tilt or angle, from straight-
up-on-end to upside-down, and will keep on
calmly churning out knots even if broken
water is flooding the boat every other
minute. A motor-lifeboat would be almost
safe, or at least 99 times safer than a row-
boat manned by cooks, waiters and firemen.
The second it touched the water a turn of
the hand would set its horse-power at work
and the boat would jump clear, where the
oared boat must either have its oars sticking
out and risking smash as the boat swings
down, or keep them inboard till lowered and
then waste precious seconds getting them
ready. And when they are out any oars-
man knows the contract it is to get way on
a boat loaded gun’P deep with passengers
and with people cluttering up and hamper-
ing every stroke. Abandoning ship is a
bad-enough job in the Atlantic, but at least
they can wireless for assistance there and
get the shelter of another liner’s lee and
oil-smoothed waters. But there are some
ocean stretches on the Australian route_ and
eoast where a ship might wireless itself
black in the face, and sink or burn a dozen
times over before assistance buzzed up. It’s
bad enough to drown when you have to,
but it would be most annoying to be drowned
knowing that the price of a motor might
have saved the unpleasantness.
“Billy T.”: Have you noticed the de-
parture of everything resembling the dude
element from our social life during the last
c „
ew Jears ‘ There was a time in t e ea
Past when the dude and the Johnnie were
conspicuous features on the Australian land-
scape. They have faded from view, and
nothing definite has succeeded them. Lon-
don still has the “knut,” a devil of a fellow
in an astonishing flat-rimmed belltopper, a
Beaufort coat of exquisite cut, and most
characteristic drab spats. He is prominent
on the streets and in the parks and gardens,
and is a valuable development of British
civilisation, devised by Providence to assist
the writers of revues and vaudeville
sketches. He is the natural descendant of
the dude. But in Australia, where the
dude flourished, the “knut” is unknown, and
no representative class of amazing dressers
takes his place here. As a writer of frivo-
lous matter > 1 miss the tailor-made element
J"Kie miserably than I
e streak of color in our drab exist-
denarSre from the wearisome nor-
ma j > ’ and -p HE Bulletin staff might unite
w i^j l us j n praying for the recrudescence of
aQ Antipodean belu or Pink Fly wearing a
hat of r A ed satin? a yest like t he label off a
tomato can, and green silk socks outside his
trousers. Anything for an unquiet life,
Y.Z. : Being called upon to live down
an unfortunate advertisement arising from
a particularly succulent divorce case, one
Melbourne caravansary of the non-alcoholic
sort, where guests introduce their own mtox-
icants in bottle or bulk, suddenly developed
an awful severity of demeanor and a striking
moral stringency in its rules. The guest,
old-established or casual, who wished to en-
tertain a former relative by marriage or a
spinster aunt from Pip lip or Pipoone,
found it more difficult than landing a ship-
ment of pure Greenland ice m Gehenna,
Ingle was living at the Decorum. He had
been there about five weeks, when his wife
arrived from Ballarat. Ingle, forgetful of
6be. stringent rules of the establishment,
which under strictly new management was
now. opened with prayer, took Mrs. Ingle
straight, to his room. The influence of evil
stirred in the chaste atmosphere. Shocked
underlings hastened to the good superin-
tendent, and made horrified whisperings in
his ear. The superintendent was a dour man
with a Wesleyan upper lip and a Baptist
conscience that was dipped daily. He went
upstairs with the demeanor of a Galvin
about to eject devils. He knocked on Ingle s
door. Then he opened it, and stood at the
portal, a figure of Retribution. Ihis will
never do,’ he said. You know the rules with
regard to introducing ladies, Mr. Ingle,
“But I am his wife, cried Mrs. Ingle, with
all the dignity a ring confers. Excuse me,
madam,” the presiding elder responded
frigidly, ‘ this young man has already had
more wives here than the rules allows,
Then the trouble began. Ingle escaped
divorce by the narrowest possible margin or
points, and he will never be happy again till
he meets that manager alone in a large
paddock.
Pompous P.M., in the Brisbane Cen-
tral Police Court lately: “Witness, attend
to me. Speak in the first person. Say
did so-and-so,' not ‘We d.d so-and-so
Maoriland, as summed up in London
Spectator (4/10/ )•
What, after all, do most of us know about it?
We have learned perhaps that it lies somewhere
near Australia, that its women have votes and that
it sunnlies us with Canterbury lamb. We may re-
member, too, its prowess at Rugby football, but it
does not compete in the triangular test matches, and
with that our zeal for knowledge evaporates
And was it for this that Maoriland bor-
rowed a couple of millions from uncle Bull
Cohen to buy a warship for himself!
, . , , ~ -r,
: 18 tbe custom of the Banana-
land Government, on the completion of a
new railway line, to sell the horses which
have been used foi wo , , •
a fresh lot for the following job, mostly at
fancy prices. But the inspectors are pre-
vented from seeing them locally, where their
true value is known, and they are sent to
auction. Thus on the completion of the
Benarkin-Blackbutt extension, horses for
which as much as £45 was offered locally
were sent to Toowoomba, and the top P r, c e
realised was £9. If the animals must be
sold at all, surely the local man who offers
a fair price should be given a chance. But
why can’t we have a Government horse-
t, J 0 T , ij o , rori ;f
breeding station. It would pay, e
there were no use for the animals except on
railway construction work.
bapphire s hard sense :
Some pointed remarks are called for regarding the
supervision of N.S.W. public school youngsters when
they make their descent, as per programme, on the
swimming baths. For eight summers I was fool enough
to take some 100-odd boys—and, at times, girls—
for their weekly swim. Those who couldn’t swim
paddled, and at the end of the season they couldn’t
paddle any better. The whole business as at
present “conducted” is idiotic. The kid who can
swim doesn’t need a tutor, and the teacher is too
busy looking after the kid who thinks he can, and
can’t, to bother about the one who knows he cant
(That is, when the teacher is busv. Sometimes he pre-
fers to find a cosy seat ) Sort out, I say, the youngsters
who can’t swim, and have a day for non-swimmers.
Put them in the hands of an expert —every fool can’t
teach swimming—and when they have learnt to
swim, and know one or two things about life-saving,
get a fresh batch under way. The youngster who
can swim will come along on the other days, and
enjoy half an hour without being grabbed by a sink-
in? class-mate
B , T > i
The Oldest Inhabitant on the Rocks : —
In re-forming the oldest part of Sydney—a part
that used to be known as Bunker’s Hill—extraordi-
nary havoc has been made among 1 what were once
the homes of our “nobility.” The place wherein
Conrad Martens, the. artist, lived is now levelled. So
is the house of Dr. Mitchell, father of the donor of
the library ; the son was born there. Higher up the
Rocks some of the old houses still remain. That of
Captain Joseph Moore, close upon a century old, and
Colne House, the old-time residence of Colonel Wil-
son, P.M. and newspaper proprietor, have so far
escaped. From Harrington-street that was you can
look at the rear of the house where W. B. Dailey
was born, in Lower George-street. Alongside are the
ruins of a watch-house of the ’SO’s. Some of the
old cottages of the Macquarie era stand high up,
perched out of reach by reason ©f the alteration of
the levels. The oldest house in the localitv is pro-
bably that standing at the end of Globe-street, and
now occupied by a Chinese. This street was named
bv Macquarie Suffolk-lane, and the house in question
was, in all probabilitv. that of Mrs. Redmond, who
had a license in 1813 to sell liquors.
“Gordon G.”: This is how they f ee l
about it in Ballarat. A local trader had
pleaded guilty to not furnishing an income
, ax relurn . Tberenpon the Airman ,
tke Bench, a former mayor, asked the de-
fendant if he would be a good fellow and
. . ~ ~ 6 ~o w ana
not do it again it the case were dismissed,
After the Crown representative had ree™
, . , , ~
ered sufficient breath to protest, the
J.P. opined that such cases ought to be
heard only by police magistrates, because
. R , , th h ’ T . 5
the Bench ’ although it wanted to do its
uuty, did not like to tine an honest business
man. Yet these J’s.P. fairly explode with
wrath when a luckless - membe J f
g harks » Union sueeesto that an tbe
““j no , U slt becau «f ,lf er e m ay bc
slightest ghost of a chance that he may be
su w-- er j D „ t - rom “unconscious hias ” y be
SJttenng nom unconscious bias.
From a Northern garden :
The influx of colored aliens into the fruit-growing
industry in the Bowen district is directly responsible
for the horrible condition of the fruit trade between
“of WrtSfZSS
by our yellow- and brown bothers, Tommy Ah Ch-ii
and Mahommed Shah, that a whole shipment of
otherwise good fruit by the Kanowna was con-
demned. It is not the white orchardists who are
responsible for the presence of fruit fly and maggot
in the cucumber and tomato of Bowen extraction
The blame rests on the discolored alien, who is as
filthy about his garden as he is about himself. Nor
do the shipping cos. give decent help. Their refrig-
erators are not nearly big enough to cope with even
the existing trade, much less help to develop it. The
remedy is apparent. Let the white fruit-growers
combine and charter or buy a steam tank of their
own. A chartered boat would almost pay for her
salt in the freights she would make on her return
trip. But Bowen won’t do any chartering; it will
put up with wholesale loss of good money and trade,
and chance contracting leprosy and other nice
things too numerous to mention, rather than get a
slight hustle on. Bowen gives me the fantods every
time I think of the darned place,
Th Oldest Inhabitant’—
,
George Ranken, mentioned by Archivist (B.
27/11/’l3) among the pioneers of the Bathurst
(N.S.W.) Plains, settled on the Kelso side of the
Macquarie River ; where now is Bathurst was the
convict side, and free settlers were not allowed
across. Mr. Ranken arrived about 1823; his son
James was born there in 1825. There were no
means of getting from Keloshiels and the other
Ranken properties to Bathurst, so Ranken built a
fine bridge below Esrom, at Eglinton. The construc-
tion of this bridge gave rise to a deal of criticism,
and o ne day a young man from Sydney, buying gold
for his uncle, strongly condemned the span. George
Ranken happened to be (it was in the Royal
Hotel), and bore with the criticism for a time. At
last he said, “Young man, that bridge is strong
enough to carry all your race to Jerusalem, and it
will stand until your great Bathurst bridge carries
it away.” The young gold-buyer was Saul Samuel,
afterwards Agent-General in London and a baronet.
In 1855 the Ranken and Denison Bridges were opened
for traffic. In June, 1867, the Denison Bridge, which
connected Bathurst and Kelso, was swept away in a
heavy flood, and in its course it carried on the
Ranken Bridge, thus fulfilling the builder s pro-
phecy. George Ranken and his son James displayed
great heroism in this flood, saving many lives at
the risk of their own. The carrying-away of the
Denison Bridge was a dramatic affair. It was
crowded with people watching the racing waters,
and the men who were trying to guide the great logs
that were hurtling down. Suddenly the middle arch
cracked. The crowd parted and rushed to the near-
est bank, and were hardly on land when the whole
structure went with a roar.


What is Economy ?
TO USE
Red Rubber Tubes,
which arc made of the
best Para, and prove the
cheapest by far in the
long run.
When in use, always keep
the tube well Inflated with
pure air, not with Car-
bonic Acid Gas, which
rapidly penetrates the
rubber, and is extremely
injurious.
To be obtained from
all the Leading Garages.
ANZ. 17.
“THE LONE HAND” for Good Stories and Bright Articles. Price 6d.
IMPORTANT TO FARMERS.
Reports in the daily papers indicate heaps of trouble from a comparatively new quarter, viz.,
THE RURAL WORKERS. Providing you have several stalwart sons to assist in the farming
operations you have little to fear, but to those not so fortunate we say :
The MARSHALL OIL TRACTOR
Is positively the Farmers and Squatters* best friend, as it does the work
of from 16 to 32 Farm Horses, with a minimum of expense and labor.
5.1823
N. 1345
Bear in mind this Engine costs “nothing to feed " when it's not working .
it runs equally as well on Kerosene as Benzine ,
it can be used in the Harvest Field without the slightest danger of Fire .
HUNDREDS OF OTHER GOOD REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD HAVE ONE.
WRITE FOR FURTHER PARTICULARS.
CASH or EASY TERMS.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO. LTD.
The Engineers’ Depot, 161 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Where the Best Engines are Sold (not Kept in Stock).


XMAS!
AUNDERS xmasiJ
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER
gifts for everybody.
FINE
Bronze
ART STATUETTE, Real
Finish. Height, 22Jin.,
£3/13/6.
GENT’S TRAVELLING CONVENIENCE, fitted
with every convenience, 10/6.
o
CARVED OAK BEDROOM
TIMEPIECE. 30-Hour Lever
Movement, Bevelled Glass,
8/6. Postage, extra.
MATCH STAND and ASH TRAY
Pure Silver Plated, 4/6.
Nickel SHAV-
ING BRUSH,
Badger Bristles,
1/6, 1/9,
2/6, 3/6.
Thousands of Handsome, Handy, Prac-
tical Gifts are awaiting your selection at
A. Saunders’. Our free Xmas Gift Book
is full of helpful Gift suggestions for
everybody. Send for a copy—it’s yours
for the asking.
tott FT SET with Bevelled Glass Mirror, Em-
bossed H Jr Brush and Cloth Brush, Best Bustles,
HAIR BRUSH, Real Ebony, Sterling Silver
n Bristles, 15/-
Mounted, extra
long
GENT.’S MILITARY HAIR
BRUSHES, in Case, Solid
Ebony Backs, 12/6.
OPERA OR FIELD GLASSES, Mor-
occo Leather covered, well
Enamel Frame, 30/-, case included..
T O B A C C O
POUCH, real
Otter Beaver,
Best Rubber
Limns;. Silver
Shield, 10/6.
FINE ART STATUETTE, Real:
Bronze Finish. Height, 22$in„
£3 /137 S,
SEWING COMPANION, containing 8 Articles,
.. . t. in Velvet-lined
SEWING UUMrA«iu«, wuuujiiub / Tv
Xylonite Handles. Complete in Velvet-lined
' J Case, 5/6.
807-817 George Street, Sydney
V'"
Jh
*F\
»*
Ml
Mr
S
Mil
» I I
V*
HA'
n>>
kV\N
MMlv
t
\
Kk
All Good
Judges SmoKe
WI hffßt©
Virginia
Cigarettes.
io
6d.
PLAIN, GOLD or CORK TIPPED.
20
II-
Sole Manufacturers :
ARDATH TOBACCO CO. LTD.
LONDON


20% Discount off
Sterling Silver.
Our experiment of a couple of years ago, of
taking the wholesale catalogues of the great
English Manufacturers of Electro Silver and
Solid Silver Goods, and deducting 20 per cent.,
or i/- in the £, from their prices, was of a
revolutionary character, and might have
landed us in heavy loss; but
IT DID NOT,
owing to our great output, and so we are con-
tinuing the discount. It only gives us a bare
commission on many lines, but commissions
count, if numerous enough.
CAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD.,
I The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
Plain Figures. Cash Only
■
5s -cl i
, ' .
Sjtf mSMi
»;
'V
Heavy Solid Silver BRUSHES, with best English
> Case 16 ** and Sllver ‘ mounted COMB, complete in
57/6
Less 20% discount uyg
-A6 Z-
DINNEFORD'S
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFORD’S”
on every hottle
and label.
Dinneford's
Magnesia
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
THE EASY SHAVING “PLUM” RAZOR.
With a “Plum” Razor—every shave is an easy shave.
It is always in perfect condition, so that you always get the maximum
of satisfaction with a minimum of effort.
Its splendid blade of silver steel is accurately tempered, so that it keeps
a keen cutting edge always.
It is a pleasure to shave with a “Plum” Razor —no soreness or irritation
of the skin —-but a soft, smooth, velvety surface which is most enjoyable.
SEND TO-DAY FOR A “PLUM” RAZOR, 10/6 POST FREE.
We guarantee to keep it in perfect order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/- This line makes a very handsome
present. All the Above Post Free.
SPLENDID XMAS GIFTS FOR MEN.
We have a Splendid Assortment of Goods eminently suitable
for Presentation Purposes. Shaving Sets, Shaving Tidies,
Brushes and Cases, Dressing Cases, Collar Boxes, Tie Boxes,
S.-M. Leather Pocket Books and other lines. Make your
selection now. We pay postage on these goods.
Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITREN
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 30 YEARS.
STEWART DAWSON’S
Beautiful Gifts in Ebony.
Nothing will please more than a Gift of one or more of these
Attractive, Useful Articles. And the Range of Choice in
STEWART DAWSON Goods is Practically Unlimited.
G2Oll. —Real Ebony
HAND MIRROR, with
Silver 0/0
Shield, °/0
Larger Size, 10/6.
Brushes to Match,
10/6, 12/6, 14/6.
We are the Manufac-
turers and Deal Direct. No
Middle Profits to Pay. Our
FIRST-COST PRICES
make your money go farther.
.T 2301.- —-Real Ebony
HAIR BRUSH, Fine-
quality Bristles,
WE PAY
POSTAGE
TO ANY
ADDRESS.
G 9552 —Real Ebony HAND
MIRROR, with Silver Shield,
Bevelled Glass,
12/6
OPEN TILL
10 O’CLOCK
FRIDAY
NIGHTS.
Strand Corner, 412 George St., Sydney.
AUSTRALIA: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND: Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin.
LONDON : 73 to 81 Regent Street, W.; and 19 to 21 Hatton Garden, E.C.
73
-
m
* ' - ' *
*Cj
mm
>.i. :
mm
m
mmm-i
sm „■
WV%' ' «¥>?
'V.<2
m
■ ■
•-
fiiSJli:*
O
: t-■:
m ■ -
%
xfl
uni
■5Z*
O
■_•■
■
Ui
Z
■
r*
Va
iA
ul
tr 1
■
P
rf B
Pj
%
&
z
as
O
u
tt?
</?
jzr
f§
m.
Wm
rr
7
m
m
I
II
hi
m
SSSI
V- ■ ■
>* I
iSHPIi
■■Hi


Martin’s Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. Ladies recommend
them. Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
NIPPED IN THE BUD.
A Cold, Cough or Influenza can be nipped in the
laid by a few doses of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
for Coughs and Colds. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s. Obtain-
able everywhere.*
XMAS DRINKS.
Three of the finest drinks you can have in the
house at Xmas time are: 0.T., the purest drink
known; Kia-Ora Squash, the pure juice of lemons
and sugar, superior to home-made squash ; and Merrv
Cup, O.T. Co.’s new drink—made from true fruit
juices and herbs. Equal quantities of O.T. and Kia-Ora
Squash, with soda or water, make a delicious thirst
quencher.*
TRIED A SAMPLE.
“Some years ago I was subject to biliousness, from
which I could get no relief,’’ says Mr. W. G. Miller,
grocer, Lindfield, N.S.W. “I was given a sample of
Chamberlain’s Tablets, and in a few hours after taking
them all traces of biliousness were completely gone.
Whenever there has been a recurrence of the trouble
1 have got immediate relief from Chamberlain’s
Tablets.”*
it
m
THE BEST
HSMOKE
is
Yellow
aster
TOBACCO
A little speed
on the road is what some cyclists like to indulge in at
times. Yet, speed not being the sole demand, comfort
must not be sacrificed.
Our B 18 is the saddle for such riders.
It is very light, of the approved speed shape, beautifully
made and sprung with the cunning of thirty years’
experience. It combines very perfectly the requirements
of speed and ease.
We also make a model BIBL for ladies.
BROOKS
OF ALL
DEALERS
POLITICAL
POINTS
A TIMELY THOUGHT.
LITTLE JOE : “I'm sure Greggy Wade’s en-
joyin’ himself; but now I remember that the
Senate was against me goin' swimmin' last
time I mentioned it, so perhaps I’d best not!”
The N.S.W. experience on Saturday
showed that the second ballot isn’t so much
a contrivance for securing absolute majori-
ties as it is a plan for giving the tired elector
a second chance to turn up. At Willoughby,
for instance, a thousand more votes were
polled at the second flutter than at the
first; and in that and other cases the second
contest was decided by people who hadn’t
voted at all on the first time of ask-
ing. Now 50 or so defeated candidates
are entitled to say that they would have won
if the electors in their districts had been
given a second chance; and why one lot
should be given a second chance and another
lot be restricted to one chance isn’t as nlain
as it might be.
In Anew of its complete dependence on the
pawnshop, perhaps we had better call Hol-
man the leader of the Laboraham party.
Senator lie Largie, the chairman of the
Chinn Inquiry Board, has further distin-
guished himself by asserting his objection to
Australian Naval Defence. He has always
been opposed to the establishment of a
national fleet, he says. Probably his appro-
val could be secured by putting Chinn in
command of it.
It is in dry seasons like this that the
\ ictorian mallee doesn’t seem much of a
substitute for a graduated land tax and
the breaking-up of the well-watered sheep-
lands of the Victorian Western District. A
pre-harvest estimate gives the three counties
of the Western District an average of 165,
18| and 17 bushels of wheat, while in the
three counties of the mallee country the
cocky has had all his toil for 6£, 6f and 10
bushels respectively.
The Westralian Agent-General has been
telling John Bull that every sovereign he
has lent that State has been put into the
same old permanent and reproductive under-
takings. It is to be hoped J. Bull never
reads the reports of the State’s Auditor-
Weneral, otherwise he may ask the State’s
stipendiary ear-biter what interest he ex-
pects to get from the loan money which is
spent on buying meals for immigrants while
they await billets in Perth. Bull might even
ask him whether the meals are permanent
improvements, and, if so, how long he rec-
kons they will last with care.
Hx'Premier McGowen, who had his usual
or l* edfern , complained, after the
N.S.W.. elections, that the temperance
people, in spite of D. R. Hall’s strong advo-
ca°,Z . No-License, had failed to show any
ri USiasm * n that Minister’s cause.
McGowen need not have been surprised.
-Lhere are a . number of strong anti-
liquor people m the Labor movement;
but the average Wowser is mostly a
±ory. If Bung were the Tory candidate in
any election, and Drinkwater the Labor
ditto, the local Wowser would vote No-
license for the. denial of the other man’s
stomach, but his enthusiasm' for the noble
cause would rarely carry him far enough to
vote for the man who is opposed to sweating
as well as swilling.
As a side-line, the Tasmanian Govern-
ments coldly-received Bill to abolish by-
elections made the sensible proposal that
when a State Parliamentarian wants to con-
test a Federal seat, his State seat shall be
kept open for him until after the Federal
poll is taken. Last Federal elections State
-Labor-member Woods was barred from con-
testing a seat for the Senate because the
State Labor party feared that his vacated
seat could not be regained by a Labor man.
If this becomes law, next Federal elec-
tions may perhaps see Premier Solomon up
as a candidate for the House of Reps. That
is, if his health improves, and if he doesn’t
accidentally fall out of the Attorney-
Generalship into a judgeship in the mean-
time. Strange and unexpected things occur
in and about politics. And among the most
unexpected is the number of patches it is
found necessary to solder on to the electoral
system of Tasmania.
Election fragment from “H.S.” :
The Second Ballot results in N.S.W. were made
known on Saturday night, and simultaneously many
notable events occurred. O. G. Wade asked himself
if there might not be something Avrong with his
leadership, after all. Joseph Carruthers, William
McMillan and Philip Morton, while presenting an
aspect of courteous gloom in public, found it all they
could do to refrain from smiling broadly in the
privacy of their homes. Alice Wilkins and Dan Levy
were unanimous in regarding the whole occurrence
as an outrage. W. H. Wood accepted the indignity
of _ being flung out of St. George in the philosophic
spirit of a man ivell used to being flung out of
places, he having been heaved out of the House at
u 6 r . m f, ance of everv Speaker, from McCourt to
H. D. Morton. The Sydney morning papers resolved
that the first leader-writer who again used the
phrases, ‘turn of the tide,” “marked reaction against
Labor tyranny, and “wave of Liberal enthusiasm sweep-
ing triumphantly over the country,” should be sacked.
Labontes to the number of 27 found themselves in
a position to continue their overdrafts on satisfactorv
terms, simultaneously 44 tradesmen feverishly seized
pen, ink and paper and wrote informing five potential
Liberal Ministers and 14 members of Wade’s rank and
hie that immediate payment of disgracefully overdue
accounts would oblige. H. D. Morton, brooding over
the fact that the Speakership is a lucrative and
honorable billet, wished that the Holman majority
had been a shade less—something in the vicinity of.
say, one. Upwards of 3000 Orangemen proclaimed
joyously that it was the greatest victory for Protes-
tantism since the Battle of the Boyne. A similar
number of militant R.C.’s remarked that the Church
had made her power felt once more. A suburban
lady Liberal who had gone to the expense of providing
the lower orders of her electorate with three elec-
tioneering teas, mentioned that the sickening ingrati-
tude of the proletariat was worse than that of any
serpent. Joseph Cook said nothing, his feelings
being too deep for coherent speech. G. H Reid
shook himself warmly by the hand. The State
Governor and the Legislative Council remained
apathetic, knowing well that no danger menaced
them. On the other hand, far away in London a
panic-stricken Hebrew moneylender hastily barri-
caded the front door of the pawnshop, and "prepared
for the Avorst.
The N.S.W. Labor crowd put in some
quick, smart work in connection with the
second-ballot campaign in the Sydney sub-
urbs. The necessity for the second ballot
was, of course, not known until late on
Saturday night; yet on Monday night the
campaign was in full swing, with Holman
and Griffith in the front rank of the speaking
lines. Moreover, the placards were out on
Monday morning in time for many people
to see them on their way to work.
“ REDUCTION .”
STOUT PARTY : “ What's all the crowd about
THE OTHER : "Oh, they voted ‘Reduction,' and they’re expecting beer for tuppence now . "
At the local-option poll Mosman (N.S.W.)
carried “reduction.” There are only two
hotels in the electorate, one at each end, and
over one mile apart. The Act empowers
the special Court to reduce the number of
hotels up to a maximum of 25 per cent. —
or one in four —where reduction has been
carried- Moreover, the Act is mandatory;
the Court shall carry into effect the deter-
mination of the electors. So the licenses
must be reduced, but they may not be
reduced beyond 25 per cent. ; and as 25 per
cent, of two is one-half of one there are going
to be Costs for somebody.
Archibald, M.H.R., relieved the dullness
of a debate on the Australian Notes Bill by
remarking that Bruce Smith was at once
the most pompous and the most ignorant
person in the House. To which the blas-
phemed Bruce replied that Archibald was a
gramophone who talked like a parrot. After
all, _ politics is considerably indebted to Mr.
Smith. One way and other he is respon-
sible for a lot of what is euphemistically
known as “personal tone in the proceed-
ings.” He invites abuse even in repose.
tTT ®^ ve us f rom our friends! No sooner had
Willie Watt been ousted from his Premier-
ship job than the Vic. Employers’ Federa-
tion met and surveyed the happenings in the
State Parliament. On the whole it wasn’t
alarmed, believing in the words of the presi-
dent that “the thunderstorm that had
occurred would clear the air and leave the
way open for the formation of a united
Liberal party, with such a Minister leading
it as would command the respect and confi-
dence of all, both inside and outside the
House.” Poor Watt! But who is the Min-
ister Blackwood had in his mind?
Every Australian State has had its Lah
Premier now- Andy Dawson started '
Queensland in 1899, with Fisher as ]■'
Minister for Public Works. Thev la t i
only six days. Daglish had his turn-
Westralia in 1904. Tom Price was
head of a coalition in S. Aus. in 1905 Fa l
was Premier of Tasmania for seven dav« •
1909. McGowen at last caught the ’hiif •“
N. S. Wales in 1910. And Elmslie
in Victoria in 1913. < “nveu
Macartney Abbott, who defeated ex-
Speaker Willis for the Upper Hunter
(N.S.W.), is a son of ex-Speaker Abbott.
He is a solicitor.
N.S.W. mining-town seats are still the
seats to fall into if a man wants the com-
fort of a thumping majority. For Cessnock,
Kearsley polled 5597, and his most success-
ful opponent 560; Wallsend gave Estell
5671. and his nearest neighbor less than a
thousand; at Wickham, Grahame’s majority
was two to one ; the undertaker of the new
House, Jabez Wright, scored 4715 against
W. J. Ferguson’s 1021 for Griffith’s old
Willyama (Broken Hill suburban) nest;
Cann (Broken Hill) had a walk-over; and
Newcastle, Cobar and the South Coast coal
district gave a block vote on the same ruy-
party-right-or-wrong principles.
The displacement of Victoria’s Watt Min-
istry once again stresses the stupidity of the
system of Party Government. The loss of
the Redistribution of Seats Bill, under
which six country electorates would have
had as much voting power as 12 metropoli-
tan districts, matters little; but with the
change of Government no less than 75 bills
go overboard. Many of these were of prime
importance; most would, with amendments,
have received the support of both Houses.
Of course everything had been put off to the
last nioment (Weary w T as tired, Watt pro-
crastinated, and none of the others counted
for much) ; so the session that began with
a full programme—supported by 44 members
and nominally opposed by 20 —closes with
hardly a measure passed, hardly a thing
done.
JOE COOK’S DISSERTATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I could stand my horful triles, I could greet you
wropped in smiles,
I could ’earken to your speeches every day ;
In the ’Ouse I’d be as bland as a girl ’oo ’olds your
’and.
’Cause I rather like the glory—and the pay.
I’d consent to give an’ take just fer dear ole frien’-
ship’s sake,
I’d forgive yer every cunning little rooze;
Yes, even Senate blokes I’d allow their little jokes
If it wasn’t fer yer langwidge, Mr. ’Ughes!
W’ieh I’d like yer to recall that when Joey Cook
wuz small
’E was brought up very strict an’ very nice ;
’E was taught say “Please” an’ “Thank’ee,” and ’e
never once said “Blanky,”
Though ’e might ’ave ’ear'd it mentioned once or
twice.
On the ’ustings I may scream, but I’d scorn for to
blaspheme,
And to call a bloke a cow I would refuse;
Eor I ’ope an’ trust this day that my tongue will
never stray
To the langwidge of the pot-’ouse, Mr. ’Ughes.
If a aitch or two should drop w’en I’m caught upon
the ’op,
At any rate I trust my lips are clean ;
That I ’aven’t, first or last, said a blanky nor a
blast,
Nor anythink the Court could call obscene.
I may ’ave bin a rat from a party—wot of that?
I still ’ave got a character to lose;
And I thank the Lord to-night that they never ’ad to
write
My evidence on paper, Mr. ’Ughes!
I’m Prime Minister Joe Cook, w’ich will ’ave you
brought to book
For evil words I’ve ’eard the Senate say ;
1 will ’ave you branded yet as a cursin’ suffragette,
Yes, twist an’ plot an’ wriggle as you may.
I need never make no tax, nor I needn’t pass no acks,
Them things is only trifles to amuse;
I will sweep this country clean as the foe of the
obscene.
While you perish in a pot-’ouse, Mr. ’Ughes!
N.S.W.
A. M.


FOR CHRISTMAS AND NEW YEAR
The Best Gift and the
Most Lasting' is
The Claviola
** The Piano-player with a human-like touch*’*
mm
Please
write for
particulars
of
Paling's
Easy
Payments.
oid
Pianos
taken
in
Exchang-
and
full
value
allowed.
"1
No other instrument can possibly offer you so many enjoyable moments
during Christmas and New Year as THE CLAVIOLA —the world's very best
Piano-player* It can be fitted to any Grand or Upright Piano in a few seconds,
and being built within a neat cabinet it takes up very little space.
The Tone of the Piano is not affected in any way by the addition of
THE CLAVIOLA Piano-player, and you are enabled to play any kind of music
your mood demands, even though you have never had a lesson in piano playing.
THE CLAVIOLA is also obtainable built within the case of the famous
RONISCH and LIPP PIANOS, forming a most delightful combination. These
glorious instruments can be played either by the hands in the usual manner or by
means of music rolls*
Please call in and play these instruments yourself; we shall be pleased to
welcome you at any time.
Palingfs Claviola
Salon is open daily to afford
patrons and the music-loving public
an opportunity of hearing
The World’s Best Player-piano,
The Claviola.
If unable to call, write to
Dept. “C” and a beauti-
fully illustrated Catalogue
will be sent post free.
&
“The House for Everything Musical,”
338 George Street, Sydney.
And at
NEWCASTLE, LISMORE, BRISBANE, TOOWOOfIBA.
The Happiest kShirt Idea Yet
XS-3T
ennis
ourist
own
Shirt
Three Styles in one Garment
FOR Sport, outdoor and general
wear alike you'll find the 3T. as
smart a shirt as could be worn.
It's the simplest of matters to change
its style to that which the moment
demands.
How it can be worn —
Fig. I.—As a Tennis Shirt, with turndown
collar and military pocket.
Fig. 2. —As a Tourist
Shirt, by merely raisin?
collar and attaching tie
and pin.
Fig. 3. —As a Town
Shirt, the collar, which
is on the hinge prin-
ciple, lies flat inside,
without forming a
crease.
I jm:
• Mm
' '
w.
*
\ ri;\
* ■■
Fig. 3.
Fig. 1.
*[ The Shirt is in
the coat style, with
gauntlet cuffs and
a new split sleeve
which adjusts the cuff
in line with the arm seam.
Patent tap and button regu-
late the sleeve length.
*[[ In Egyptian Zephyrs,
Cambrics, Oxfords, Fine
White Poplins and White
Matt. 200 designs to choose
from. Price
Fig. 2.
716
In ordering, state size of collar worn
desired, but it will save time to
materials and colors required.
. Patterns if
simply state
We pay Freight on all Orders. Catalogue Post Free
THE LEVIATHAN
BourKe and Swanston Streets, Melbourne.
Corner
sL ym
•r\wnsr s§i
ES
Christmas!
Why not g'ive a
CAMERA?
No Gift will give such Lasting Pleasure.
THERE is no question as to the utility of the Camera as a
Christmas gift; it is a gift that will suit persons of all
ages, and the expense need not be great. The wonderful
little Ensign Cameras at 5/-, that will take good, clear pictures
2%"in. x 2/^in., or the tO/- Ensign for pictures x
are cameras that are good enough for anybody to start with
—for young people they are excellent, as they are simplicity
itself, and require no dark room. Then, again, there are
cameras at \5 /-, 21/-, 25/-, 30/-, 45/- and upwards, either for
Daylight Loading Roll Films or Glass Plates.-
If you cannot call and make your selection, send at once
for Special Christmas Booklet, and new up-to-date Camera
Price List, ready November, 1913.
Each Camera is sold packed in strong box, with complete book of instructions.
lJ
Sydney— 3B6 George Street. Melbourne 266 Collins Street.
Brisbane —93-95 Ouoen Street. Adelaide Gawier Place.
Perth—A. L. Tilly. Auckland and Wellington, N,Z.


BILIOUSNESS.
AND INDIGESTION KEPT AWAY BY
DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS.
Mrs. E. A. Webb, of Bent Street.
Katoomba, N.S.W., writes: “For the past
10 years I have been taking Dr. Morses
Indian Root Pills regularly, and find they are
splendid for keeping me free from indiges-
tion and biliousness. 1 usually take a dose
once a week. Prior to using these pills 1
tried other medicines, but none oft them were
as satisfactory as Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills. My husband and daughter also take
them, in fact' they are our family medicine,
and we are nevpr without a bottle in the
house. You have my full permission to use
this for advertising purposes.” „
The statement made by Mrs. W ebb will
be endorsed by thousands of P e °Pj. e „ w i lo
have used Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Puls ..
years and are still finding them beneficial
as a family remedy.*
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Absolutely Pure.
No Preservatives
E. RESCH’S LIMITED , Brewer by Appoint-
ment to his Excellency the Governor-General.
Brewery and Offices : Dowling Street, Redfern, Sydney
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Chair Seats So Simple that a
Child Can Fix Them!
and so strong, too. “Pioneer” Leather Chair Seats will last a lifetime —no
to throw away those old chair frames.
Ordinary round seats, 14in. x 16in. diameter, 2/- Wider, add
for each extra inch, and for other shapes send paper
pattern.
If your Storekeeper does not stock “Pioneer” Seats, send direct to
J. C. LUDOWICI & SONS LTD.,
“Pioneer Works,” 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
How a would-be blackmailer got diddled is
one of this season’s Tatt. Sweep stories. He seri-
ously intended to scratch his precious gee for a cer-
tain race (although the animal was quite “fit and
seasoned for the passage,” in a Hamlet way of speak-
ing) if he could not frighten the Tatt. ticket holder
into promising him a fat percentage of the prize
money in the event of a win or a place. The gee
was paraded as a doubtful starter what time the
owner was waiting for developments. Eventually
he got on the track of the ticket holder, or his agent,
and demanded the best offer the lucky person could
make. This was forthcoming verbally, and accepted.
The horse ran and won. But when the owner applied
for his big slice of sweep money the person he had
interviewed denied that he was the real ticket owner.
Also, he denied that he had made any serious offer at
all. So the would-be blackmailer got never a bean.
It is to be hoped that this incident will direct the
stewards’ attention to Mr. Tookdown’s precious gee
next time he brings it out for blackmail purposes.
The A.J.C. (Sydney) has dropped upon
F. W. Coombes to fill the hole left by J. Hogan as
deputy-stipendiary steward. The gap was caused by
Hogan accepting a similar job in S. Aus. F. W.
Coombes is an authority on most matters connected
with sport, and, as sporting editor of Wellington
(M.L.) Times, put in much time with the upraised
axe on turf practices which smelt like week-old
prawns. Like brother Dick Coombes, the newly-
appointed stipendiary dotes on amateur athletics, and
will probably lend a friendly shoulder to the wheel
of amateurism in the Ma State in spare moments,
* * * *
The High Court (Eng.) recently caused
consternation among motor-cyclists by ruling that the
law of 1904 requires motor-cyclists to carry a tail
light. Motor-bikes do not carry their numbers at
the back, so the light can be useful only to prevent
the motor-bikist being overtaken and run down; and
considering what an infernal row the average motor-
bike makes, there does not seem much chance of that.
Still, if a tail-light makes for increased safety, it
should be compulsory. One trouble is that the
motor-bike is not fitted to carry this light; but that
can be remedied at very little cost.
From particulars to hand by mail it seems
that Percy Lambert’s car did not capsize on the
banking at a turn—a statement which suggested that
the banking of the Brooklands track was not scientifi-
cally correct, and unsafe for speeds of over 100 miles
per hour. What really happened was that a back
tyre burst, and, jambing between the wheel and the
axle, cause a terrific one-sided strain. When the
wheel skidded, this strain caused the car to swing
right over and hurl Lambert out. He was travelling
at 109 miles an hour when the smash occurred.
* * * *
A dispute is raging as to where the first
Australian automobile track-race meeting was held.
Records in possession of Harry B. James indicate
that the pioneer affair was the Victorian Auto Club’s
meeting at Maribyrnong Racecourse on April 30, 1904.
The second was at Aspendale Park (Vic.) on Novem-
ber 7 and 9, 1906.
There was some daring, not to say reck-
less, motor-cycle racing at Canterbury Racecourse
(Sydney) on Saturday, when the Sydney Club held a
meeting to raise funds for the local hospital. Con-
sider the spectacle of men racing round a grass track
without any banking whatever, at speeds ranging
from 50 to 60 miles an hour. That is what these
reckless wights did, and got through without an acci-
dent, too! The final of the All-Comers’ Handicap
was a fine sight and fiercely contested over a distance
a shade under five miles ; the winner, Pearce, cut it
out in. smin. 20sec. He was riding a 2J-h.p. machine,
and had hung desperately to the wheel of F. Rose,
on a 6-h p. jigger. Suddenly the high-powered
machine lost its speed, and before it could be re-
covered the lighter-powered one had swept past and
won. At one part of the race they swung round a
totally unbanked turn at fully 60 miles an hour.
Evidently we have some mighty skilful riders run-
ning loose in this country.
Man hath sought out many inventions, and
keens; on doing it. One of the most useful connected
with motoring or cycling is the “anti-glare cap,”
devised by the well-known English motoring expert,
H. Sturmey. It is an ordinary cap with a trans-
parent screen of some colored material, which in-
tercepts the violet rays in the glaring light that
pours from an automobile’s lamps. After passing
a car at night cyclists and other motorists are tem-
porarily blinded. This anti-glare does awav with
that. Pull down the screen, block out the violet rays
and the sight is as clear after passing the lights as it
was before.
Some of the Yankee firms are trying hard
to boom the big 7-h.p. twin-cylinder motor-bikes. No
motor-cyclist, unless he wants to achieve fame and
sudden death on the racing tracks we have not got
in Australia, requires 7 h.p. on his bike. For road
work 7 h.p is no better than 2# or 3# h.p., but it
eats petrol about twice as fast. Even if one wants
to take his friend’s best wife out in the tandem or
side-car attachment, 5 h.p. is ample to drive the
thing anywhere. The fact that some of the big
Amurkan manufacturing houses are subsidiary com-
panies in the Standard Oil Trust may have some-
thing to do with the attempt to force on riders these
voracious oil-devourers.
The N.S.W. League of Wheelmen got out
of its coffin and broke hilariouslv into a champion-
ship meeting at Sydney Sports Ground on Saturday
night. The chief events were the N.S.W. Mile and
the 25-Mile chamnionships, and they were both a
gift to G. H. Horder. He won the third heat of the
Mile and then routed the opposition in the final,
winning in 2min. Bsec. by three lengths from Ham-
mond, with Mcßeath third. In the long-distance
event he never once looked a winner till he was
actually It. At the sprint he was lying almost last,
with Les Hammond a good 100yds. ahead. Then
Hammond’s tyre burst, and he ran off. Horder un-
wound a beautifully-timed sprint, and was going
great guns when Erskine came at him in a way that
looked very business-like, and Priestly was hovering
close by. But Border managed" to get an extra
twirl or two out of his hind feet, and by two lengths
beat Erskine, who dished Priestlv bv just half a
length. The time was all but record—sBmin. 4 3-ssec.
Horder was carried shoulder-high from the ground.
Bananaland collars the amateur bike glory
for the coming season, when the Australasian half-
mile and one, five and 10 miles events will be held
in the northern end of Australia.
The Maoriland Cricket XI. opened its
Australian campaign with a match against N.S.W.
Northern Districts at West Maitland on Friday. The
visiting batsmen were not at ease in their first
innings, and though the bowling was anything but
virulent they succeeded in making only 228. But it
was enough, for what the Maoriland batsmen lacked
the bowlers made up for, and the local team was
smashed up for a miserable 120. Sandman was the
chief destroying angel, taking three wickets for 23.
So the Maorilanders started on the second innings
with 128 to the good, and, feeling more at home,
batted with grace. With seven wickets down and
285 on the board, they declared. Northern District
recommenced 393 behind, and the hopelessness of the
job broke its collective heart. The effort was a
most feeble one; only three men reached double
figures, and the top score (Mackay’s) was 24. Sand-
man took eight wickets for 29 runs, and Reese one
for 17, and the side vanished for a wretched 90,
leaving Maoriland on top by 303. The visitors will
find something very different in Sydney.
* * * *
Although Queensland XI put up a good
stand at Sydney Cricket Ground, the inter-State
cricket match ended in a regular rout. By steady atten-
tion to business Queensland piled up 311 on the
first day, Fennelly 78, Rowe 53 and Redgrave 48
being the top scorers. The destroyer was the reli-
able Folkard, who smashed seven wickets for 65
runs. At the drawing of stumps N.S.W. had lost
two for 71, and Queensland decided there was no
cause for alarm. The disaster commenced on Satur-
day, when Macartney and Scott collared the bowling,
with 195 and 100 respectively, and the others gave
such good backing that a mountainous score of 571
was heaped up. It looked a hopeless task, but the
Queensland boys made a start on it. This time,
however, Kelleway fell on them and got seven of
them for 35 ; and the innings ended for 232, leaving
N.S.W. on top with an innings and 28 runs to
spare.
THE KANGAROO “STUNT."
How jumping Jehoshaphat Stone tickled Aus-
tralians while defeating his brother Yank, Pal
Brown, at Sydney Stadium.
Saturday saw the conclusion of the inter-
rupted fifth round of Vic. Pennant cricket, when the
still-undefeated North galloped over Fitzroy—2sB
in its first innings to ’Roy’s 174. South surprised
East by answering its first effort of 221 with 311,
which any competent mathematician will declare was
an advantage of 90. P’ran, faced with Colling-
wood’s moderate 279, failed to grasp the nettle, and
could only collect 196. St. Kilda, in reply to
Northcote’s 151, whacked 307 for seven wickets, and
then declared. But when it proceeded to demolish
the Brickmakers a second time it failed to get the
desired three points. ’Varsity, having erected the
steep tally of 473 for six wickets on the earlier
Saturday (Park 209 and Doig 81), closed at once,
and ran Richmond through for 208 runs. Now that
nearly half the season is over it looks as though
the issue lies between ’Varsity, North and St. Kilda,
with ’Roy and ’Wood hanging on to an outside
chance. If Noses were betting on the game, it
would probably be “Even money, bar one,” the one
being the Students. They have a strong team.
The Yankee Athletic Team will strike Mel-
bourne on January 31, and continue to do so on
February 7 ; but to manage it the visit to Tassy has
to be cut out. Which is just as well for Australia’s
athletic reputation. On February 14 and 21 the team
will be in Sydney; and there are fond hopes that a
few of them may find unhallowed graves for their
reputations there.
Templeton, one of the most boomed of the
visiting United States athletes, met his match at
Christchurch (M.L.) on Saturday. In the 120yds.
hurdles, Templeton and Keddle, a Maorilander, rose
at each hurdle together; but in the final run to the
tape Keddle won. In the final, however, Keddle was
beaten by Pratt, a local man with 15yds. start, in
15 2-ssee. Keddle had taken 16sec. when he beat
Templeton. The rest of the events were mostly won
by the visitors.
Sydney public is evidently not the least
interested in amateur athletics, as the Association
found to its sorrow on Saturday, when the vast
empty spaces of the Sydney Sports Ground greeted
the splendid programme arranged by the Council.
It was the second day of the fourth annual contest
for the Dunn Shield—and nobody except the competi-
tors and a few friends and ticket-holders cared who
won the bauble. In the Three-Miles Walk, Policeman
Pickard, closely pursued by Dent (South Sydney), got
over the distance in 22min 9 4-ssec. That is a record
for N. S. Wales. Walking is one of the things we
do not seem to excel in. In Britain J. W. Raby,
as far back as 1883, shinned over three miles in
20min. 21#sec. Coming down to modern times, G. E.
Lamer, urged on, no doubt, by the necessity of try-
ing to keep warm in the English climate, paced the
same distance in 20min. 25 4-ssec. A youth to
achieve glory on Saturday was S. R. Greenup, who
won his heat and finished third in the final of the
Dunn half-mile, and then came out and won the
second heat and final of the A. A. A. Handicap One
Mile.
Leichhardt and Waverley Red Sox put up
a strenuous game of baseball on Saturday, and made
a very attractive exhibition. The players have struck
form now and are showing very finished play. The
unbeaten Leichhardt team had a horribly close call,
and the scores were actually five all. So an extra
innings was ordered, and Leichhardt managed to get
one and prevent the other fellows scoring at all, thus
winning with six to five. The Blue Sox quite over-
whelmed Petersham by nine to five.
Albert Barry, of the Sydney Swimming
Club, who holds the Australian record for 100 yards,
on Saturday made an attempt upon the 100 metres.
The world’s record for this distance (109.363 yards)
is lmin. 2 3-ssec., put up by Duke Kohana-
moku at Stockholm, 1912. Barry’s time
was lmin. 4 4-ssec. ; so evidently the young Austra-
lian is not yet a match for the Hawaiian. Barry’s
was, nevertheless, hailed as an Australian record,
though, according to Miller’s Sporting Pamphlet,
Harold Hardwick got through the distance in lmin.
3sec. at Sydney Domain Baths in October, 1909.
“M.P.A.”: Mrs. Isabel Newman, de-
ceased, the alleged baby slayer of Mordialloc (Vic.),
blossomed out in 1908 as Madame Isa Bell, champion
lady runner of Australia—a self-inflicted title.
“Madame” claimed at that period to have won at
least 100 races at various picnics held down the
bay. In her “champion” capacity she succeeded in
adroitly pulling the leg of Melbourne Herald. She
was living at Port Melbourne, where her hubby toiled,
and it was at the Port that the writer and a
Bulletin woman-contributor inspected various
brummy clocks and trinkets that “Madame” claimed
to have gained on the cinder path. The tawdry
baubles had evidently been “readied up,” and with
an eye for show the artless deceiver had hubby and
the family dolled up and assembled at the little front
gate to give us greeting and also to impress the
neighborhood. I gave “Madame” a few tips, and at
my suggestion she ordered a pair of sprinting shoes.
She talked “even-time,” and garnishing her vocabu-
lary with all the pet phrases of the game, she
succeeded in putting up a big bluff. She next made the
business acquaintance of a Hebrew firm, which sup-
plied the quids to run a meeting at South Melbourne
in April, ’OB. There she raced Ivy Evans,
a big, hefty lady, who simply put it all
over her in a three-distance match, 50, 100
and 150 yards. I started the contestants on
their wild career. I made “holes” for them, and
they went down, though the way they “set” gave ’em
no advantage over an upright start. When
Madame got licked very badly, she informed me that
an electric bath had “tied her up” in the legs, and
she didn’t show her true form. However, Ivy Evans
very effectively settled “Madame’s” bogus claim, and
afterwards proved herself a very good runner for a
woman. Mrs. Newman gave her height as sft. 2in.
and weight as Bst. 51b. She was quite sturdy for her
inches, and wasn’t built on accepted running lines.
* * « *
Saturday was a great yachting afternoon
in Melbourne, no less than four clubs being out. The
Royals held a cruiser match over 14 miles, and some
interesting racing resulted in a win for Helen by two
seconds from Utiekah, with Thistle third. The wind
was light, but the water was jumpy, and the boats
made a fine show on the run home under spinnakers
and every other scrap of canvas they could crowd on
to catch the fading breeze. Helen, the winner, was
the scratch boat.
* * * *
On Saturday the Prince Alfred Club (Syd-
ney) ran off a double event, with no less than seven
starters in the bigger of them. The breeze was not
conducive to spectacular seamanship, and the job of
the afternoon was to gatch all the wind. Moreover, the
races were badly interfered with by steamer traffic,
which robbed them of still more interest. As it was,
Aoma beat Rawhiti. with Sunbeam third and Culwulla
fourth. The big Sayonara was last. In the 18-Foot
Championship tussle Christian Webb, in the Australian,
simply bolted, and left the rest of the fleet struggling
far in the rear. This win brings Australian’s score
to 10 points against the two each of H. C. Press and
Nimrod, and the one each of Kismet and Arline. As
a picture, Port Jackson was superb, with no less than
14 yachts racing and a cloud of 18-footers darting
about like seagulls.
At Cessnock (N.S.W.) one Hogan is
credited with a ball-punching world’s record of 41hr.
smin. Heaven only knows why Cessnock encouraged
him to do it, seeing that it has millions of tons of
coal that he could have punched far more profitably.
* * * *
Sydney indulged in an orgy of fight last
Saturday night. Battles were raging at Rushcutter’s
Bay and Newtown, and on the boards of all the
newspaper offices Holman and Wade were fighting
their second-last round, and when it was over it was
discovered that Holman had piled up such a crowd
of points that he must win, no matter how the last
round in the country goes. Out at the new Olympia
Stadium Dave Smith met Les O’Donnell for the third
time. True, he won; but it was only on points,
after a full 20-round contest. On the previous occa-
sions he scored one knock-out, and in the other fight
O’Donnell was so badly mauled that the police.stopped
the riot because they considered he had received
enough. So, apparently. Smith is a waning star, or
the other fellow is waxing rapidly. In either case
it does not speak too well for Smith’s chances against
McGoorty. Of course, it doesn’t follow that, because
he gets less effective against O’Donnell each time,
Smith will be ineffective against McGoorty. But it
inclines the public to believe so, and decreases Smith’s
power to draw the money for which they all scrap.
The United States Army is convinced that
it has got the real White Hope in the person of
William O. Vaillancourt, of the Second Division, at
present encamped in Texas City. He is the army
giant, standing 6ft. 94in. in his shoes, weighing 20st.
41b., with a reach of 87# inches. His strength is said
to be abnormal. On one occasion he was seen carry-
ing a kicking mule in his arms to the picket line.
The beast had “jibbed,” and “Tiny,” as Vaillancourt
is called, reckoned it was easier to carry the brute
where he was wanted than to persuade him to go
there. On another occasion it was desired to move
a mess-house. Nine “huskies” took one side and
“Tiny” the other. In spite of his vast bulk and
enormous weight he is said to be light and active on
his feet and ar. excellent skipper. But the chances
are he will never be a success in the ring. He has
never boxed, and has absolutely no idea of the game;
and boxers are like singers—they require to be caught
young.
* * * *
The latest news of Johnson, via the U.S.A.,
is that he waddles when he walks and is altogether
degenerate, and quite unfit to fight any of the top-
notchers. But Yankee reports of the big black have
to be taken cautiously. They detest Johnson there,
and when they detest anyone in the States they
advertise him in their own particular way. The yarns
of Johnson decadent do not tally with the cabled
news that lie has taken on wrestling—a much harder
and more dangerous game than boxing.
The disappearance of Saint Summers
about a week before the night fixed for his fight
with Pal Brown placed promoter Baker in an awk-
ward fix; but he clawed out of it with the help of
boxer Harry Stone, who stepped into the vacant
place. The result was one of the most dazzling
fights ever seen in the old ring. Pal Brown fought
better than he did against McCoy, and was much
faster, but he was not fast enough for the elusive
Stone. All the same, he gave that Mephistophelean
youth the hardest fight he has had in Australia.
At one time there were grave doubts if Stone could
endure 20 rounds of the heavy body-battering Brown
was serving out; for, in spite of Stone’s marvellous
footwork, his splendid ducking, and ' the stabbing
left that he kept poking on to Brown’s left eye,
Brown drove him on to the ropes and there battered
him badly again and again. But his condition was
splendid, and he survived. Stone is essentially a
brainy fighter, and the way he anticipated Brown's
blows was very wonderful. But he could not antici-
pate them all, nor block them all when he did antici-
pate them. He had carefully thought out his plan
of battle beforehand, and carried it out excellently.
Prancing around, soaring through the air, dancing
from right to left, and stab, stab, stab, stabbing all
the time at Brown’s left eye with his left glove, he
was on the defensive at the start of every round.
Then, with 10 seconds to go, his corner would give
a signal, and he would come with a terrific rally,
the like of which has never before been seen main-
tained round after round at the Stadium. It hap-
pened with clock-like regularity. And in every case
Brown either bolted from the fury of it, or hung
on. At these rallies Stone was a picture for
an artist. His face glowered with cynical ferocity,
and he hit like lightning. His blows came so fast
it was impossible to follow them, and neither could
Brown block them —he was simply smothered, over-
whelmed. The crowd rocked with delight. It was a
gruelling fight. Brown bored in all the time, and
in almost every round seemed to have Stone in
difficulties; but the latter always clawed or ducked
out, and then came with his wonderful 10 seconds’
rally. Brown made a splendid effort, but he failed,
and" the decision in Stone’s favor was absolutely cor-
rect. There is probably no cleverer boxer in Aus-
tralia at the present moment. And such is the
vitality of the youth that half an hour after receiv-
ing the verdict he was on the vaudeville stage in the
city, doing a turn.
The vanished Summers was ultimately located at
Katoomba (N.S.W.). He explained that he could
not make the lOst. 21b. demanded by the articles,
without unduly weakening himself, and was disin-
clined to fight again under welter-weight (lOst. 71b.).
To fight Brown at lOst. 21b., and then take on
McCormick a fortnight later, at lOst. 71b., was not, he
said, giving himself a fair show —so'he faded out.
Why he didn’t walk into the Stadium office and ex-
plain things like a business man, Johnny did not
mention. Perhaps he thought there was more advt.
in the disappearing trick ; if so, he can rest assured
it was a mighty bad advt., because it carried with
it a suggestion that he was scared of Brown.
The Oarpentier-Wells assault —it ran
hardly be called a fight—is likely to hold one record.
An English firm thought it had done good business in
securing the picture rights for £2000; and this,
accepting the time as cabled (lmin. 10sec.), works
out at the handy figure of £2B 10s. per second!
“0.K.” : Another caustic comment on the
sincerity of 20-round glove “fights” is the result of
the Carpentier-Wells argument in London last week.
There was £2500 to be scooped by the winner, and
the Frenchman scooped it right away. The fight lasted
a few seconds. Previously, when the same pair met at
Ghent, the Frenchman won in the fourth round, after
having narrowly escaped a count-out in the first. In
a genuine contest between heavyweights a man must
win at once or be beaten almost immediately. A
real fight is a very brief excitement for the onlookers
—no prolonged display of the arts of attack and
defence; no chance of an unpopular decision by the
ref.! Going, going, gone!
Some bowelless person is proposing to
arrange a fight between Bill Lang and Sam McVea;
and Billiam is said to be delighted at the prospect.
Bill’s game, no doubt, but such a fight would be most
detestable butchery, and should not be allowed—
though who is to stop it writer does not know. Aus-
tralian audiences are not partial to colored boxers
unless they are aboriginals ; and then they love ’em.
Jerry Jerome will draw as big a house any night he
likes to fight as anyone, but the manager who puts
up a negro boxer just at present would probably lose
what the boxers call his dough.
* * * *
Just before commencing his battle with
Pal Brown on Saturday night, Harry Stone reaped
the first reward of his victory over Mat Wells. It
came in the shape of a cabled offer of £l2OO to
fight Willie Ritchie, lightweight champion of the
world, at Madison Square, New York, under the
promotion of one Billy Gibson. Baker at once
offered to release Stone from his contract if he
wished to accept, but Stone said he would think it
over and make inquiries. Wise youth.
Harry Levien, recently defeated at Tam-
worth (N.S.W.), after just a third of a
century’s political service, was the baldest
man in the Assembly. An early tip as to
the Tamworth contest of 1913 was pub-
lished some time ago. It appeared in 11.
Kings 2, 23: “Go up, thou baldbead!"
And he went up. In his younger political
days he was the solicitor for the defence in
the big conspiracy trial which sent up Sleath.
Ferguson and other N. S. Wales strike-
leaders. The courthouse at Deniliquin
then buzzed with politicians and men who
were shortly to become politicians. With
Levien’s defeat the last of them has gone.
Of the notables, Jack Want, Levien’s senior
counsel, is dead ; Sleath tragically buried
himself politically; and Ferguson changed
his coat and smothered himself in the pro-
cess.


WHY DON’T YOU LEARN
TO USE YOUR HANDS?
I*
You fully realise the importance of know-
ing how to defend yourself. Because self-
preservation is part and parcel of every form
of life.
You ought to do something to develop your
natural power. Why not learn to box —learn
to use vour hands to the best advantage?
Otherwise the time will surely come when
you will bitterly repent your indecision.
Perhaps it may be a matter of life and
death, then—you’ll wish in vain.
There’s no excuse for you not knowing how
to box. I can teach you in your own home.
I TEACH BOXING
BY POST.
T thoroughly explain the most serviceable
moves known to Ringcraft. The best moves
of the most famous living boxers will form
part of your instruction. If you were
entangled in a mix-up, what a big advantage
you’d have —what confidence you’d have, and
that’s half the battle. Here is a letter from
one pupil:—
“I am getting along splendidly with
my boxing. I am beginning to feel sure
of myself. It is a grand pastime.”
H.E.W., Nimbin, N.S.W.
See how he’s building up confidence, because he knows how. You ought to learn “how” too.
Write for my 32-page booklet, “Scientific Boxing in Your Home,” which describes my methods, and
gives cost of tuition. It’s worth having. Send three penny stamps for postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
272 BELMONT BUILDINGS, SYDNEY.
CIGARS as
Xmas Presents
When considering the
question of Xmas Pres-
ents it is well to remem-
ber that there is no
present more acceptable
or appropriate for the
man who smokes, than a
box of good cigars, or
some other article a
smoker uses, such as a
Pipe, Tobacco Pouch,
Cigar or Cigarette
Holder, Cigar or Cigar-
ette Case, Tobacco Jar,
etc.
My Illustrated Catalog,
entitled “A Discriminat-
ing Smoker’s Guide,” il-
lustrates cigars in their
actual size and color,
cigarettes, pipes, pouches,
etc., and would greatly
assist you in making sat-
isfactory gift selections.
Write for a free copy.
"Club Royal"
Cigars
(as illustrated) are hand-
made from the Finest
Havana Leaf, and are
excellent value. Mild in
flavor.
In cabinets of 50, 20/-
per box. Postage in
N.S.W.. 9d.: inter-State,
1/2.
A. M. SOLOMON,
“ CIGAR EXPERT,”
173 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Actual Size.
“Keep Smiling *
In other words
““.Shell
Freedom, Ease 8 Comfort
The ...
WELMAR
Shirt
Pat. 1274
24/5/’ll
Stocked by
Leading
Mercers and
Outfitters.
Manufactured by
Welch, Margetson S Co.
Pty. Ltd.
KRDPP
MINING,
ORE TREATMENT
and
INDUSTRIAL
MACHINERY.
CEMENT WORKS, PHOSPHATE WORKS,
ROLLING MILLS, SUGAR MILLS, RUB-
BER WORKS, SHOES and DIES, ROLL
SHELLS, STEEL OF ALL DESCRIPTION .
NOYES BROS.
(Melb.) Pty. Ltd.
(Sydney) Ltd.
499-501 BOURKE ST.
PERTH (W.A.).
, MELBOURNE. 115 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
STEELE & BAKER (Adelaide). BRISBANE (Q’laud).
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
L. & F. CO., LIMITED.
P®r
Secure Highest Market Rates
for all consignments of Wool,
Wheat, Hides, Skins and Tallow
entrusted to them and render
returns promptly.
BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
The Shoes Gentlemen Wear
Rigney Shoes are so high-grade, so comfort-
able and so correct in style that they are
the recognised footwear for gentlemen who
dress with discrimination.
The illustration is a Tan Willow Calf
Three-Button Shoe, Smart American Shape,
Brown Cloth Insertion Tops. “Non-Tread-
Over” Brand. Best English Manufacture.
Price - 32/6.
Also in Patent Leather, 32/6, 35/-
Postage 9d. extra.
Write for Catalog.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.,
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings. Edward Street. BRISBANE.
Advt. from a Sydney morning paper last
week: —
Indian farmer, 38, wishes to correspond with lady,
about 30, view matrimony. This advt. is genuine.
Address, ——, Lismore.
Even the newspapers which say they cor-
dially approve of a white Australia would
evidently rather have a spotted Australia
than lose a shilling. In the circumstances
there is nothing for it but to pass a law
absolutely prohibiting the marriage of any
colored person to a white citizen, and mak-
ing it a criminal offence for any person,
newspaper proprietor or otherwise, to aid or
abet any colored person in securing a white
woman either as “housekeeper” or “with
view to Matrimony.”
In Maoriland Premier Massey has an-
nounced that an amending Bill will reduce
the percentage of recorded votes required to
go the whole prohibition hog from 60 to 55.
The first poll taken on national prohibition
was in 1911, when 55.83 per cent, of the re-
corded votes were in favor and 44.17 per-
cent against. But on that occasion to he
successful the “d.rys” required 60 per cent,
of the votes. Four years’ trading after the
decision in favor of prohibition is allowed
Bung and Co. as compensation, so, if Maori-
land is in the same mind at the end of 1914
as it was at the conclusion of 1911, there’ll
be some cyclonic hustling at the pubs and
breweries up till 1918.
I Y@ME°Mnldiw M@w¥f<f]ir
will be all the more enjoyable
if you have your Car—Motor
Cycle—or Bicycle shod with
0
0
! ia
£3
■%
-
c.
Cm
for f/ie.y mean absence of
trouble, and good service .
/f’s the Quality and Strength
of these Durable Tyres that
make them so suitable and
popular for Touring.
OBTAINABLE ALL GARAGES & DEPOTS.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO., All State, and NJZ.


asp
i
sa*
fi fi r?
I’m an Old Hand
at the Game
And you can take it from me that
Hanks’ is the place for the Tools in
our Line. You yet the Most Reliable
Makes, the Most Up-to-date Ideas, and
you don’t have to pay too much for
them. I believe in the Best, and
Always Get Satisfaction in going
there.”
SO SAYS THE ENGINEER.
HERE’S A LINE OR TWO.
ELECTRICIANS’ INSULATED PLIERS.. 2/-
KLECTRICIANS’ INSULATED SCREW-
DRIVERS 1/4
TAPE MEASURES, in case, 66ft., from 1/6
EXTENSION HACK SAWS.
STOCKS AND DIES FROM BEST MAKERS.
FILES FOR SHARPENING METAL-CUTTING
SAWS.
AVRENCIIES FOR ALL PURPOSES.
TINMAN’S STAKES AND PICK IRONS.
EMERY WHEELS, BRASS FITTINGS, TUBE AND PIPE OF ALL KINDS, etc., etc.
SOME BARGAINS IN LATHES.
John Danks & Son Propty., Ltd.,
324 Pitt Street, near Liverpool Street, Sydney .
Also at 391 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
WAVERLEY FOUNTAIN PENS
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
:: FREE
DIFFER FROM ALL OTHERS BY REASON OF
THE ELASTICITY AND PERFECTION OF THE
GOLD WAYERLEY NIB. IT DOES NOT TIRE THE
HAND AS DO THE STUBBORN LIFELESS NIBS
IN ORDINARY FOUNTAIN PENS. THE FLOW OF
INK IS FAULTLESS. ::
; SOLD BY ;
STATIONERS
AND
; DEALERS :
Wholesale Agent: ROBERT HUTTON, 321 Flinders Lane,
Melbourne
1
r
r A
m
STEVEN
GOOD, STRONG, CLOSE SHOOTERS.
Choke bored for nitro powder. Case hard-
ened frame.
For any standard make of ammunition.
12, 16 and 20 gauge—in standard lengths
and weights.
Stevens Single Barrel Shot GuftS
Every gun rigidly tested. Order from your
Dealer.
For latest Stevens information —illustrated
catalogs, etc., communicate with
ARTHUR H. HILL,
Australian Representative for J. Stevens Arms
& Tool Company,
G.P.O. Box 86. Adelaide, South Australia. [5
For the Holidays and Other Days let Your Selection be a
Pieper Bayard Gun
The Beet Value
Guns
on the Market-
m
"r.
Made in
Various Grades.
Write to
W. A. COX, C.P.O. Box 873,
for Booklets, Post Free.
P°
Pieper Bayard Cuns are fitted with barrels
bored from solid drop-forged decarbon-
ized steel, ensuring enormous strength.
A SATISFIED USER OF ECKERSLEY’S
AERATED WATER MACHINES
WRITES:
Mumhil, 18th August, 1913.
RAILWAY HOTEL.
J. Forrest,
Prop.
“I am more than satisfied with my Aerated
Water Machine, purchased from you Some
time ago, and the Waters which it produces
are excellent. The cost of production is only
a trifle.
“Yours faithfully,
“(Sgd.) JACK FORREST."
No Hotelkeeper or Vendor of Aerated
Beverages can afford to be without an
Eckersley Aerated Water Machine or
Soda Fountain. We are the only manu-
facturers of these superb Machines, and
in purchasing from us, middlemen’s
profits are eliminated.
ECKERSLEY’S,
Canada Building, 822 George St., Sydney
Clarendon Street, South Melbourne
Queensland Agents—Messrs. Elliott, Donaldson & Douglas, 529.33 Queen Street, Brisbane.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
Price 1/- per Bottle. Of all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LTD., MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
"J
iHIUIM
&
W[
XMAS MORNING
How pleased
he will be
to receive
a Gillette
Safety Razor
The Gillette is that rare thing, a “ useful gift ” that is used after the
novelty wears off. It is a practical gift—for him personally.
The Gillette Safety Razor gives a man a comfort and convenience ne
cannot get from any other razor or shaving device. He uses it every
day and it iasts him a lifetime.
Standard Set, in velvet-lined morocco case, with 12 blades (24 cutting
edges). Combination Set, with Gillette shaving soap and brush
—everything needed for shaving. British Made.
Write for Illustrated Booklet showing the many styles in which Gillette
Razors are obtainable, “ Hints on Shaving,” etc., sent post free on application.
Mention this paper.
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR LTD., 4044, Holborn Viaduct, London, E.C.
General Offices and Works: Leicester, England.
NO HONING
jGillcttc
“McNorth,” from Far Tip:—
A great deal of the diversity of opinion re the
suitableness of the Northern Territory for white set-
tlement and agriculture is caused by the opiners
visiting the country at different seasons of the year.
One man who sold his happy home in Victoria, and
migrated to the Territory, has returned and de-
scribed, in a Queensland paper, the waterless and
barren condition of the place. But if that man,
instead of going there in September (one of the dry
months),, had gone in (say) February, he would
probabh' have sent his friends a glowing report of
the rich pastures and fertile soil he had discovered.
The man in the South is apt to forget, or else he doesn’t
know, that the seasonal conditions of Darwin and
Gippsland are not the same. The rain in the North
falls in the summer, and the coastal register is
about 60in. Also, it has never been known to fail.
Certainly, there is very little rain between the “wet
seasons”; but the cocky can be sure that it will
arrive at the appointed time, which is more than can
be said for many places in the South. Then, again,
many people seem to suffer from the idea that any
product of the South can be produced anywhere in
the Territory, and when they find that wheat, and
barley, and macaroni don’t thrive near Darwin, they
rush out wild statements to the effect that the only
successful products of the Territory are Binghis,
buffaloes and Government officials. It is certainly
doubtful if mixed farming, as it is known in Vic-
toria, can be practised in the Territory; but there
is no doubt at all that the tropical plants which
are so successful in Queensland can be grown at a
profit. It’s a good country with a large, healthy
climate, and if we persist in building the railroad
from the wrong end, and don’t get a hustle on in
the matter of settlement, there are hordes of people
just over the way who would deem it a genuine
pleasure to give us a hand.
♦
From an ex-Cohentingenter
Many of us who risked our skins for glory and a
dollar a day in order that the Jews of .Jo’burg
might try Chinese labor as a substitute for nigger
slavery are feeling sick nowadays. South Africa, to
acquire complete control of which Britain wasted
thousands of lives and millions of money, is fast
finding its way back into the hands of the men
from whom only recently it was temporarily wrested.
The result of the Nationalist Conference, just ended,
shows most unmistakably that the Dutch Afrikander,
at any rate, is done with Botha and his temporising,
semi-imperial policy. The glamor of the successful
soldier is fast wearing away ; and the great body of
the Dutch people, always inclined to look askance
at Botha’s British sympathies and leanings, is be-
ginning to prospect for someone else to lead the
way into the Canaan of “Africa for the Afrikan-
ders.” Steyn, Herzog and De Wet —the three
“Free Staters” who were instrumental in wresting
the most favorable terms of peace on record from
their alleged conquerors —have now assumed control
of the Afrikander Nationalist party. The cable tells
us that “a split” has occurred; but. as the Free
State (or, as it is called now, Orangia) follows Steyn
and Herzog as one rhan, and as the Southern Trans-
vaal and the Northern districts of the colony will
most assuredly do the same, it looks as if Botha
will be left with a mere remnant. Natal and the
Eastern Colony are largely British in race and sen-
timent, and he can look for little sympathy from
them. The influence of the extremist section of the
Nationalists under the outward leadership of Herzog,
but with the acute brain of Steyn (most subtle of
South African statesmen and most irreconcilable of
anti-Britishers) behind it all, has been increasingly
evident for some time past. It is shown everywhere,
as in the wholesale evictions of the Outlanders
from the civil services and in the re-instatement
of that mongrel tongue, the Taal, as the primirv
language in the schools and other institutions
Mottling is surer than that the next general elections
will see a great accession to the ranks of the mil
itant Dutch party. The women of S’Africa, esneci
ally the women of the country districts, did not
through ignorance and prejudice, utilise the ballot
box to the extent expected at the last elections
The Afrikander Bond, llet Volk and the “Orange
Unie” have, however, attended to that matter. Aided
by the Predikants, or clergymen of the Dutch R e
formed Church, who are more extreme than the ex
tremists, the dyed-in-the-wool Afrikander vote pro
mises to overwhelm what little remains of the Ini
perial spirit in the greater part of the South African
Union. With Steyn to guide and Herzog to accom-
plish, and such things as the Hindu restriction
trouble as a text to work on, the future of South
African Imperialism threatens to be quite interest-
ing.
♦
“Ricardo” : Willy Watt and his Govern-
ment said that Australia is to be peopled
with rural folk from England ; and the other
State Governments chimed in with “Hear,
bear.” But Emmott, Haggard, and others
of the English Parliamentary Commission
declared emphatically that Australia will
not get the English yeomen and their fami-
lies because England is resolved to keep
them. Certainly Lloyd George is taking
decisive measures to nail the English down
to their own soil, and the Tories profess
to be equally desirous on the point. Marl-
borough has just announced that 1000
acres of Blenheim Park will be farmed for
the first time. A large slice this, for the
whole park is only 2500 acres; yet the rest
will go, too, like Australian squattages be-
fore the selector. The ducal Sutherland,
scenting trouble perhaps, offers Lloyd
George 200.000 acres of deer forest at £2
an acre, and the Government is likely to
accept, just to show that it means business.
These may he swallows to herald the sum-
mer that is coming for the small English
agriculturist and laborer. Yet it bv no
means follows that the summer will" hold
the yeoman who tastes it. He may want a
better summer. The man who is turned
into a little farmer in England may have
his hopes fired to be a big farmer in Aus-
tralia. Nothing that Lloyd George can do
in the way of nailing-down is likely to be
more thorough than that which the Germans
have done ; yet note the flow of Germans to
America and other foreign lands. So “In-
crease your yeoman population!” I say to
England, and we’ll get more English yeomen
than we do to-day—when, in truth, we get
none worth mentioning. For us are the
pale tweed-caps of Lunnon.
“T.L.Y.”: How’s this for the staying
power of the native born? One of the Vic-
torian participants in the baby bonus this
year is a young man who was born in Ho-
bart in 1835. He landed in Vic. in 1852
and is still driving a team of bullocks for a
crust.


One of fifty-six
Remote Control
Panels t recently
manufactured for
a large Railway,
Power & Light-
ing Company.
r*
j
If J
I
Standard method
of running;
small wiring -
on a G.E,
Switchboard,
A TYPICAL G.E. CO. (U.S.A.) SWITCHBOARD
Thousands of these Switchboards are in use at the present moment, each one fully repaying its cost, in the elimination of breakdowns and repair expenses.
GENERAL ELECTRIC CO.,
AUSTRALIAN
217 CLARENCE STIVEET, SYDNEY.
„ QUEEN and LITTLE COLLINS STREETS. MELBOURNE.
Representing—General Electric Co. (U.S.A.); British Thomson-Houston Co. (England).
%
The Trade Mark ofThe Tamest TT/eefriea/ Manu/hefarer /n the lYor/d .
The right Lamp at last!
AEG
Drawn Wire Lamps
as supplied to S.M. Council under Three Years* Contract.
AUSTRALIAN METAL CO. LTD.
SYDNEY 40-42 CLARENCE STREET.
o
WOLF
Patent
Superheated
STEAM LOCOMOBILE
THE LAST WORD
IN
MODERN SUPERHEATED STEAM ENGINE CONSTRUCTION.
in regard to durability, reliability, steady running
and adaptability, Wolf Superheated Steam Locomo-
biles at least equal the best steam engine or turbine
plants of several 1000-h.p. 4
Their superiority in economy is attained by their
faultless construction, and in obviating the many
losses, including radiation, etc., which are unavoid-
able in steam plants having separate boiler and
engine.
/
Over Suction Gas Plants, Oil and Gas Engines, Wolf
Locomobiles possess the following advantages:—
Cheaper cost of fuel; great reserve of power, allow-
ing overloads up to SO per cent.; steadiness in run-
ning under extreme and sudden variation of load; use
of any kind of fuel besides coal; utilisation of steam
for heating or manufacturing purposes; easy attend-
ance, even by unskilled hands; Absolute Reliability
and Greater Durability; greater simplicity and con-
tinuously maintained economy also at lower loads.
. f« !
m
JU-W-
-iv m
n / >, **■
V
i
• j #
f
: ":, r
ill
_ las
Total Output: One Million H.P.
THE EXCELLENT RESUETS
which Wolf Locomobiles always have given in every
kind of industry, even in the remotest corners of the
world, and often under the most unfavorable condi-
tions, offer to the carefully discriminating expert
unsurpassed advantages as to
RELIABILITY, DURABILITY, & CONTINUOUSLY
MAINTAINED ECONOMY OF HIS PRIME MOVER.
At the end of 1912 there were at work, to the utmost
satisfaction of their owners in:—
Australian Representatives: 7 ——
HAES & EGGERS LTD., 163 Clarence Street, Sydney,


How to Care
For a Gun.
After shooting remove the
barrel, and wipe thoroughly with
rag soaked in
“3-in-One”
Oil
Clean inside of barrel from
breech end with oily rag on
cleaning rod.
Polish stock with “ 3-in-Otlo. w
Then, to keep the gun in per-
fect condition, a few days later
wipe oil off, and go over gun
again with fresh “3-itl-Ona” rag.
“ Three -in-One” Oil is sold
everywhere in Bottles and Handy
Oil Can.
Write for Sample Bottle—it‘»
Free !
REID & REID,
Australasian Agents.
82 C, HARRIS ST., WELLINGTON, N.Z
E
Please yourself
by making use of
such a satisfactory
method of cleaning
the teeth as
1
fag
It is pleasant to know tkat you
kave polisked so nicely tkose teetk
tkat skow.
It is satisfactory to feel tkat
your teetk are all properly cared
for —tkorougkly cleansed witk
tkis antiseptic dentifrice.
And it leaves suck a pleasant
feeling of freskness in tke moutk.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co.,
Manchester, Eng.
The
M-arie
Permanent
hair
Stain
(Registered).
BE YOUTHFUL EVER!
This well-known and reliable Permanent Stain has
given complete satisfaction to thousands ot men
and women throughout Australia who have used it
on hair, moustache and beard. Not one failure.
Unaffected by surfing, tonics, washing or wearing.
Non-injurious to the most delicate hair or skin.
Impossible to go patchy. Simple to apply. Light
Brown, Medium Brown, Dark Brown and Black.
PRICE 10/6, 6d. postage (12 months’ supply,!.
Money returned if proved unsatisfactory. All
Toilet Requisites stocked. Send me your hairwork.
One and Only Address:
MARIE VAN BRAKKEL,
46 CASTLEREAGrI STREET, SYDNEY
(Opposite Hotel A ustralia).
No connection with any other firm trading under
the name of Van Brakkel. ( Register all letters ).
A SMILE OF SATISFACTION
3
s'sou
MADE FROM LEMONS ONLY
OVER 1000 TONS OF LEMONS
have been used in the manufacture
of “ Lemos,” and it is now sold almost
all over the world.
THESE ARE FACTS.
Every
half-crown
you take
in must <
bedivided
like this
goes to
-► buy new
stocK
9 d goes to
pay rent.help,l
neat, light,
insurance,etc
—► 3 d is net profit-.
For home expenses,
educafion of children. |
amusemenfserc.
No profit in handling the first
% but there IS a big chance
for loss. All loss must come
out of the last three pence.
If you should lose Is. from your day’s takings, you would have to
sell 10s. worth of goods to make up for that loss, because ALL
the loss must come out of your profits. Won’t it pay you to
STOP ALL YOUR LOSSES?
A modern National Cash Register will ensure you getting
more of your profits, because it will STOP LOSSES. That
is why we have sold over 1,150,000 of them.
REMEMBER.
We guarantee to sell a better Cash Register for
less money than any other concern in the world.
Write us for particulars as to the Cash Register that will stop
the losses in YOUR business.
NATIONAL GASH REGISTER COMPANY
Of Australasia, Limited,
Head Office: 119 Bathurst Street, Sydney.
50 Bourke Street, .Melbourne. 117 a Rundle Street, Adelaide.
343 Queen Street, Brisbane. 281 Murray Street, Perth,
80 Collins Street, Hobart. 57 Brisbane Street, Launceston
iiDoYou Long fora Full Moustache?
Do you desire a
manly appearance?
Then take this mes-
sage and act upon
it.
Use CAPILLARINE.
Capillarine makes the hair grow thick and strong in a very-shortjaceoftime.
For thirty vears it has proved its merit as a splendid moustache pi
Applied at night before retiring it is sure to give satisfaction.
TRY A JAR TO-DAY. 10/6 PER JAR. POST FREE.
The C. & A. Moustache Trainer, worn at night, shapes the moustache.
2/6, 3/6, 5/6, Post Free. Send for Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney-
Established 30 Years.
THE GIFT FOR
EVERYONE . . .
THIS CHRISTMAS.
Because of its usefulness, its perfect working and its long
life, fix on the “Swan” Fountpen as a gift this time.
The very fact of its being recognised everywhere as
the best is alone a delicate compliment which the
recipient will appreciate, and its service makes
it a gift of real value. The price is according
to the size and mounting of the pen, but
the smallest and the plainest has the same
high-grade and lasting qualities.
WHEN YOU
GIVE
A
Note the
• •ladder”
feed.
SWAM
yp w^ri
you add to a man’s daily comfort —a woman’s pleasure.
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS.
May we send our Complete Illustrated Catalogue? Its lost Free. .
AO 1 fT'rv pv £ & 80, HIGH HOLBOR
jTIABIE, TODD & CO. london, w.c.
Australasian Branch: CvdneV"
J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, George Street, oy
The Inky Way.
“S.T.S.”: Why is punctuation suddenly—within
the past seven years—become a lost art ? The
newspapers are awful. The London-printed novels
are worse. It is the comma that suffers, chiefly.
“This course may in some circumstances be recom-
mended.” That is all right without a comma; or
it can have two, one after “may,” and one after
“circumstances,” with the effect of a parenthesis.
What the printers do is to stick in one, which is
worse than useless. Sometimes the commas seem
to be dropped in out of a pepper-pot. Some gems
from a book just printed in Sydney, and very well
got up in all other respects: “Master Anthony
Bacon, came from beyond the seas, being a gentle-
man whose ability, the world taketh knowledge of” ;
“My course hath been pure and unlearned and never
poor gentleman as I am persuaded, had a deeper
desire—” ; and “Many of our preconceived opinions
of Queen Elizabeth, derived from an unreliable his-
tory will have to undergo, a considerable change.”
All the punctuation there is to learn could be taught
within 10 minutes, one supposes. Isn't it any
literary man’s business to learn it —or to teach?
It is nonsense to blame the linotype. Is the lino-
typer a dummy that he can’t be taught too ?
* * ♦ *
The new evening paper which is to bring the total
of dailies in the peaceful town of Christchurch,
M.L. (population 63,116), to five is getting together
a strong staff under Editor Huie. The latest ap-
pointment is that of Charles Harris as assistant
editor. Marris is one of big-chief Gresley Lukin’s
bright youhg men on the Wellington Post, and
although he has been only five years in journalism he
has crowded a lot of clever work, including some
Bulletin verse, into the time.
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: A quaint, yellow, time-
colored publication is the Wyndham Journal, first
published in manuscript, after the manner of John
Pascoe Fawkner’s Melbourne Advertiser, on board
the ship Wyndham in 1557. The series of nine
numbers and a supplement were later on sent to
Edinburgh to be printed. The ship, of 760 tons,
left Liverpool in June, 1867, chartered by, Gibbs
Bright and Co., and consigned to Messrs. Bright
Brothers and Co., of Plinders-laue and Bond-street,
Melbourne. And, by the way, the Bright Brothers,
Charles E. Bright (who married a daughter of Lord
Canterbury) andTieggy Bright, are still on top. Charles
is 85 and Reggy 80.) The surgeon, Alvara Loft-
house Slater, was a scientist, and had travelled, in
China. On settling in Victoria he devoted his time
to researches in snakebite, and published some in-
teresting data in connection therewith. Andrew
Orr, who died in Ballarat at the age of 87 years,
was on the ship, and was given five years to live.
He lived more than 60, and distinguished himself
as poet and pressman; he left a volume of poems
published a short time before his death. John
Forde, who had been on the staff of several Dublin
newspapers, amongst them the Warder and the
Nation, widely different in politics, was also a
passenger. Mr. Forde has two sons on the Inky
Way in Australia. Lorimer Fison, not then a
reverend doctor, was also on the little ship. The
editor was Joseph .Wilding, who established himself
in Melbourne as an importer of agricultural machin-
ery. Slater, Orr, Fison and Forde contributed
largely to the journal, and there were many anony-
mous contributions of much merit. Some little timeafter
landing, Fison becamemanager of Abbott and Co.’s print-
ing office in Post Office Place (Melb.) while Abbott
was in England. During liis management a pamph-
let was printed at the offide, entirely without Fison’s
knowledge, which disclosed the peculiar doings of
the Wroeite sect at their chapel in Fitzroy. The
police got a copy of the pamphlet, supplied without
hesitation by Mr. Fison. The authorities pronounced
it obscene. Superintendent Hare promised that if
the stock were destroyed there would be no prosecu-
tion, but the promise -was not kept. Fison was pro-
secuted before Chief Justice Stawell and a jury.
He '.defended himself; he was a Caius College (Cam-
bridge) man, and knew how to do it. He was found
guilty and ordered to come up for sentence when
called upon; but he never was called upon. Stawell
complimented him on the “erudition, learning
and research” which his speech to the jury disclosed.
On Abbott’s return Fison joined the kjethodists, and
went to Fiji as a missionary. It was an opportunity
to commence a study for which he always l craved—
the study of ethnology. In this connection the
British Government gave him a Civil List pension
of £l5O a year; but it came too late —a few
months before his death in December, ,1907. He has
left us “Tales of Old Fiji’ and other works, mainly of
a scientific - character. *
“X.P.D.”: In Ipswich, which hasn’t yet finished
grieving over the circumstance that it wasn’t made
the capital of Queensland instead of upstart Brisbane,
people have a way of sticking to their jobs. Cribb
and Foote, the big storekeepers of the place, have a
crop of old men who started there as youngsters. At
least one has been there 50 years. But the daddy of
ail long-service establishments is the local news-
paper, the - Queensland Times. Two of the paper’s
four directors, William Kipping and A. J. Stephen-
son, started in the office as printer’s devils or
message boys well over half 'a century ago. One of
the editors has been on the job nearly as long, and
the other for close-on 30 years. I forgot to mention
that the rest of the directorate, consisting of the
Parkinson brothers, were born in the business, their
father being a former owner or part-owner of the
paper.
Gone up for his final proof-reading, Edmund
Gregory, formerly Government Printer in Queensland,
aged 81. He was a fair boss, and one who knew his
job The patriarchal printer worked successively on
ithe Empire (under Henry Parkes), the S. M. Herald
and the Brisbane Courier. Then he got a billet as l
overseer under Government Printer Beal, whom he'
succeeded in ’93. He retired in 1902.
* * * *
“Diorite”: Westralian journalists have an un-
friendly eye for. Parliamentarians who undertake
newspaper work in order to advertise themselves and
supplement their incomes. The grievance is not that
they do the work, but that they do it at what would
be starvation rates if they made a living with their
pen. And, the most deplorable part of the business
is that the greatest offenders are Laborites. Three
years ago an M.H.R. drawing £6OO a year edited a
sheet without pay; and at present two Labor mem-
bers run other papers at wages which no self-respect-
ing pressman could afford to seriously consider. The
excuse usually is they are doing something for “the
cause,” though I don’t hear of Labor members who
were bricklayers being encouraged to build a Trades
Hall for 3d. an hour in their spare time.
A libel case out of the common was that of Flor-
ence Webbe v. Melb. Age. The Webbes were married
on January 8, 1912, and on March 24, 1913, an
advt. appeared in the Age that their son, aged 11
months, had died on March 20. This was over the odds,
and the lady clamored for something more than an
apology. In defence, the Age proved that the advt.
had been inserted in good faith and without malice,
and that little or no damage had been done to Mrs.
Webbe’s character, as her friends and acquaintances
who saw the misleading notice, knew it to be in-
correct. On these grounds the newspaper might have
escaped with, at worst, nominal damages; but its
counsel put up the further defence that Mr. Webbe,
with Mrs. Webbe’s consent, sent, or . caused to be
sent, the notice to the paper. The insinuation was
that the pair had laid a trap for the Age, and that
the respectable journal had innocently fallen into it.
Judge Box, in his summing-up, declared that this
defence absolutely failed, and by reason thereof plain-
tiff was entitled to recover. A sympathetic jury
thereupon came to the assistance of his Honor as to
the amount to be recovered. They fixed it at £4OO.
Digby Denham threatened the Warwick Argus
with trouble after the Brisbane Daily Mail and
Senator Ferricks had been put into the pot; but he
let it off with costs and the usual serving of humble-
pie.


The “TOP NOTCITof Scotch
5?
a
\
kh
/
L-
a/
I
)kT7
/'//
\
r
\
V
&
7
6
1
N
S
■Ss
is
f*
hf
i
H
\v
m
/
%
r
u
s*
Aj*/S^
%
THE 1) ISTILLERS fJoMPANY Jill I TED,
COPYRIGHT.
Edinburgh.
n&m
..i///»j
‘Say WHEN, Man


Shipping:.
Pm and Om
BRANCH SERVICE .
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Via MELBOURNE and ADELAIDE.
*Twin Screw. All Fitted with Wireless
t Passengers intending to sail per Berrima will
need to make immediate application for berths.
PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION AMIDSHIPS.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
LONDON £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s, & £l7 17s.
Tickets for return, via Suez (second-class), P. and
O. Mail, from £49 19s. to £53 11s.
CILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne: John Sanderson k Co., 11l William St.
Adelaide and Fremantle Agents: Geo. Wills & Co.,
Limited.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE," ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Hanking, Public Companies, &c.
V-
Minimum
Deposit.
ON
FRIDAY
EVENING
£5OO
Interest
Limit.
take a portion of your pay to the local
Branch of the Government Savings Bank.
Even 1/- will open an account and put you
on the road to saving.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
THE STATE SAVINGS INSTITUTION.
118 BRANCHES and OVER 500
AGENCIES IN THE STATE.
3*
Per
Cent.
Interest on
First £3OO
This Bank has
no Agencies at
Post Offices-
Head Office :
11 Moore Street,
SYDNEY.
J. H. Davies, Secretary
3
Per
Cent.
On Excess
to £5OO
THE.
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £382,500.
Directors : Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY;
Hon. ROBERT PIIILP, M.L.A. ; I,lon. A. J.
THYN.NE, M.L.C.
General Managers J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 242 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Quebn Victoria St., E.C,
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT 1 ! iIE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE 'v
Australian |)anl( of Commerce
LIMITED.
("Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL . . . . £>2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198.534
PAID-UP (30th June, 1913) ..£1,195,398
RESERVE FUND £^5,000
lIFAD OFFICE— George and King Streets. Svdnej
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS —Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair
man ; George J. St.v. Esq., LL.D.; Chas. H.
Mvi.es, Esq. ; Mark Sheldon, Esq. ; Arthur S.
Barton, Esq.; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid-Up . • • • ■ • 413,418 0 0
Reserve .. . . .. • • 142,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since 3893 specially protected.
Directors —Jas. Munro, Esq (Chairman) ; John
Cameron, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. ; Geo. Edw. Bunning,
Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - - - - BRISBANE.
Branohea—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East
The Colonial Hjutual [ife
assurance society limited
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £6.000.000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
Hon. C. J. Roberts. C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secret an
Shipping
VTORDDETJTSCTTER LLOYD. N.D.L.
XI IMPERIAL MAIL STEAMERS,
TO COLOMBO. SUEZ, NAPLES. GENOA, ALGIERS,
SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP. AND BREMEN.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Installation.
All Steamers fitted with Laundry.
FARES TO LONDON: 1., £7l/10/-; 11., £4O;
111., £l5 to £l9. RETURN: 1., £lO7/5/-; 11.,
£6O; 111., £3O/12/- to £37/16/
LOHMANN and CO., General Agents, 7 Bridge-st.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE.
♦The largest and Finest Steamer trading between
Australia and San Francisco.
Around World and Around Pacific Tours.
Steamers stop 24 Hours at Papeete—the
“Pearl of the Pacific.”
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND. LTD..
259 George Street, Sydney.
TH€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE
Steamers Fitted with Wireless.
tTriple Screw Turbine.
SALOON: FARES— Third-class.
London, from £45. £16 to £20.
Capetown and Durban, from £30 £13/13/- to £17/17/-
Special Round Tickets for Return by Orient Line,
£110 (First-class both ways) ; £82 (Second-class
Orient). Saloon Return and Stop-over Tickets inter-
changeable with Holt’s Blue Funnel Line. Third-
Class Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable
with P. & O. Branch Service.
ROUND-THE-WORLD TICKETS from £122/10/-.
SALOON CABINS on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the higiiest stan-
dard.
Pamphlets. Time-Tables, kc., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD. Agents in Australia
Australian Steamships Line
UNSURPASSED PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Fast Passenger Steamers
Sail as follows (circumstances permitting) :—
SYDNEY A
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
•CAIRNS
(•Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports). J
NORTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Dec. 20
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Dec. 24
Leaves Sydney Dec. 27
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Dec. 81
Leaves Sydney Jan. 3
For
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and W.A. ports).
SOUTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Dec. 20
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Dec. 27
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
ISLAND TOURS
TO PAPUA
(via the Queensland Coast).
A Charming Combination
Tour of 33 Days.
S.S. “Matunga,”
JANUARY 5.
Brisbane, Cairns, Port
Moresby, Yule Island,
Samarai, Woodlark Island.
£2O.
The SOLOMONS
(For Rest and Health).
35 DAYS TRIP.
S.S. “Mindini,”
JANUARY 10.
Brisbane, Tulagi, Aola, Glzo,
Faisi, Quadalcanar, etc.
£2O.
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., Head Office, SYDNEY.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
DIRECTORS:
£3,500,000
£2,350,000
£3,500,000
£9.350 000
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, Kt., M.L.C.,
President.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq. _
The Hon. Sir Normand MeLaunn, rvt., M.L.C.
The i on. James T. Walker
The lion. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
AUDITORS: Alfred George Milson, Esq.; William Harrington Palmer, Esq.
Head Office—George St.. Sydney. London Office-29 Threadneedle St., E C.
336 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, 1 iji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD. J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-Up ..£1,750,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. . . 1,630,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. 1,750,000 0 0
£5,130,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen. Esq Chairman
Hon. 11. E. Rater. M.L.C. . . Deputy-Chairman,
lion 11. Moses. M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: E. S. Cape, Esq., and F. W. Hixson, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street. SYDNEY.
London Office: 1C Bircliin- Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. H. S.
Littleton ; N. D. Cohen, Esq,
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout th<LState of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Sank of |)eui Z ealanli -
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING,
GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock
Preference Shares
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid
up •
Uncalled Capital
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits
£1,000,000
500,000
500,000
500,000
1,418,117
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Bri-
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other usual Banking business.
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-Up .. •• •• ..£538,307
Reserve Liability of Shareholders. . . . 159,054
Reserve Fund (invested in Govt. Stock)..
£773,861
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Gen Man.. F.dwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
mHE Best Stories written in Australia
I appear in The Lone Hand each month.
Price 6d.
A Whole Week Saved
SYDNEY to SAN FRANCISCO by the
Oceanic Steamship Company
10,000 tons, Twin Screw Steamers. 17 knots,
Classed 100 A 1 at British Llovds.
CABINS DE LUXE with BATHS.
SA I LINGS FROM SY DN EY—
VENTURA. .. j Jan. 10 j Mar, 7 | May 2 I June 27
SONOMA .. .. | Feb. 7 j April 4 | May 30 | July 25
The through trip to England can be accomplished
in 29 Days via Samoa, Honolulu, San Francisco.
RETURN TICKETS GOOD BY P. &0., ORIENT LINE,
N.D.L., N.Z .S. Co. and S. S. & A. Co.
Tel. 2282 O%■ Apply— 44 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
f"HE Worth Coast Steam
1 Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larlv to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S HAR-
BOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads—steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting; with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —»First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Bs. 6d. ; second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
me
Z,aw Points
Inventors
CAN I OBTAIN A PATENT?
The quickest way to ascertain
this, WITHOUT EXPENSE, is
to write to me describing your invention, enclosing
a small sketch where necessary. Nicety of drawing
is not essential-; all that is necessary at first is to
give me YOUR IDEA.
I will at once inform you whether the idea is
patent-able, and, if so, give the necessary instructions
for further procedure.
Persons desirous of obtaining really reliable advice
or information regarding Patent matters are cordi-
ally invited to consult me personally or by letter. In
all cases a careful consideration of their plans, an
honest opinion, and a prompt reply may be
expected.
A. J. CALLINAN, Patent Attorney,
Citizens’ Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Shipping:.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports. '
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
T.S.S. WANDILLA(77BS
tons), fitted Wireless
Telegraphy, Saturday,
Deo. 20 and Jan. 17,
T.S.S. WARILDA (7713
tons), Tuesday, Jan. 7
and Feb. 4.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
MARXjOO, Dec. 23.
GRANTALA, Dec. 30.
INNAMINCKA.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD..
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
Via FIJI AND HONOLULU.
CANADIAN - AUSTRALASIAN R M
LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railwav.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
AROUND THE WORLD TOURS.
FIRST AND SECOND CLASS.
SAILINGS :
*New triple-screw steamer, fitted with cab’ns-de-
luxe en suite, Nursery, Laundry, Electric Lifts, etc.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STEAM SHIP OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Federal & Shire Lines
ADELAIDE TO LONDON IN 34 DAYS
(VIA SUEZ CANAL).
T.S.S. ARGYLLSHIRE.
CAPTAIN CHICKEN.
. . JANUARY 28, 1914
. . FEBRUARY 4, 1914
. . FEBRUARY 10, 1914
. . FEBRUARY 14, 1914
Saloon. Third-Class.
Fares to London: £4O to £45. £l6/16/- to £lB/18/-
Saloon fares from Brisbane, £2 extra.
Third-Class, £l/1/- extra.
The Saloon accommodation consists of two-berth
and family cabins on the Upper Deck Amidships,
including Lounge and Smoke Room.
Third-Class accommodation situated almost Amid-
ships, consisting of two- and four-berth Cabins. Third-
Class passengers supplied with fresh provisions from
cool chambers throughout the voyage.
Electric Light throughout. Return- and Round-
Trip Tickets issued via Cape and/or Suez Route
Prepaid passages arranged. Fitted with Wireless
Telegraphy.
For further information, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane.
McILWRAITH, McEACUARN & CO. PTY., LTD.,
Melbourne and Newcastle.
ELDER SMITH & CO LTD., Adelaide.
H. JONES & CO LTD., Hobart.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“ llimaroa,” “Wimmcra”
“Riverina,” “Victoria”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH k ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
12,500 Tons.
BRISBANE
SYDNEY. .
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Anil All Ports.
WHAT IS
J
Golcryst is made from Epsom Salts,
Senna, Sarsaparilla, Dandelion, liq-
uorice and Ginger. That seems
good combination of useful mem -
cines for Constipation, Rheumatism,
Impure Blood, Pimples, Boas,
Stomach and Liver Troubles.
So popular has this remedy become in
Australia that Golcryst may be regarded
as the National Aperient.
Packets 3d., 6d. & V'
If you cannot obtain locally, write to
the Proprietors,
Rockc, Tompsitt 8 Co.,
MELBOURNE,
FOR A FREE SAMPLE PACKET. ft


Hotels, &c
George, hotel
St. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 13/- per day.
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It is
the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
SPRING and SUMMER
STOCKS Now Opened.
New Suitings
This Season we have made an
additional importation of a selec-
tion of designs exclusively reserved
to us in single suit lengths only.
Soliciting the favor of a visit of
inspection.
David Braham# Co.
Tailors and Costumers,
76 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
(Between George and Pitt Streets.)
Williams’ Holder Top
Shaving Stick.
This is the good old
Shaving Stick known to
every gentleman
in Australia, but
now presented in
a new and attrac-
tive form, greatly
enhancing it s
convenience and
economy.
fFOKATIff*
MP
mmst
Your chemist will be glad
to show it to you.
r
HD till
•fill lIMII
lllllllH*
||l> *lj
•Hill
irr
iiiiiiiiiiimnii
DOBS
KILL COCKROACHES
PROCURABLE FROM:
George Gough & Son, Ltd., Bris-
bane.'
H. H. Groth & Co., Sydney.
London Pharmacy, Ipswich, Q’land
G. R. Smith, Townsville, „
Lomas & Co., Warwick,
Jack & Co., Dalby,
Bryant & McLean, Roma,
E. S. Hale, Bundaberg,
NAwbery & Shambler, Gympic, ,
Peak & Co., Toowoomba,
Williams, Ltd., Rockhampton,
Lamberts, Ltd., Mackay,
Alex. Campbell & Sons,
Maryborough, »*
And all reliable Storekeepers throughout
Australasia.
Agents wanted in West & South Australia.
Write to GOUGH’S, BRISBANE.
*
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFICE
Bank of Hitstralia
SYDNEY
Branches are open for the transaction of GENERAL BANKING BUSINESS at
New South Wales —Sydney. Federal Capital —Canberra. Victoria— Melbourne.
Queensland—Brisbane. Rockhampton, and Townsville. South Australia —Adelaide.
Western Australia—Perth. Tasmania —Hobart. And at 36-38 NEW BROAD ST., London.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, foreign places direct. Foreign bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of credit and circular notes issued to any part of the world. Bills negotiated or
forwarded collection.. Banking and Exchange business of every description transacted within
the Commonwealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Interest paid on fixed deposits.
„ SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.
Branches are open at 3 Moore Street. Sydney; 317 Collins Street. Melbourne; Queen Styeet,
Brisbane; Royal Exchange. 96 King William Street, Adelaide; St. George’s Terrdce,
Perth; Elizabeth Street. Hobart; and Canberra (Federal Capital); and 1900 Agencies at
Post Offices which issue Money Orders in the Australian Commonwealth and Papua,
an if 0111 •’ am. to 5 p.m. daily, and noon Saturday.
All Branch offices are open for deposits and withdrawals on Friday, 7 to 9 p.m.
Withdrawals on demand may be effected at any office within the Commonwealth.
T 1/- Minimum Deposit. 3 % Rate of Interest on all Deposits up to £3OO.
JAMES KELL, Deputy Governor. August, 1913. DENISON MILLER, Governor.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queens-
land offers a Held of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars.
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TEOEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
HOTEL
METROPQLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 11s. per day, or apartments
may he secured separately by the day from 3s. 6d. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager,
The Accorcfeon with
MELLOW TONE
Is just perfection for Song Accompaniments, Dance Music
and Picnics. The Organ-like Tone of these Instruments
is attained by the use of Bell Metal Reeds, which are hand*
fitted and tuned.
THREE POPULAR MODELS.
THE ORGAN TONED MELBA
3 Sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 22/6, postfree.
THE DANCE KING
4 Sets Bell Metal Rteds, price 30/-, post free
THE PICNIC MODEL.
2 Sots Bell Metal Reeds, price 15/-. post free
OTHER MODELS FROM 7/6 TO 40/-
For Free Catalogue No. 9 write to—
• If
276 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
and also at Bendigo and Geelong.
DON’T FORGET
B.S.A.
with its fine Record of Successes
when contemplating the purchase of a new
machine. There s none to equal a B.S.A.
for reliability because there s not another
bicycle made with such extreme care, or
undergoes such stringent testing and gauging
as B.S.A. Fittings.
You must remember that if you took a hundred machines
built of B.S.A. Fittings to pieces and mixed them up,
you would have no difficulty in rebuilding, because
every B.S.A. Part is so perfectly interchangeable.
Write for B.S.A. Handbook.
D. Y. REN NIB (Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS, MELBOURNE.
LOOK FOB
THIS MARK
WHEN YOD
BUY A
BICYCLE.
TRADEMARKS
V
B.S.A.
B.S.A.
SPARE
PARTS
OBTAINABLE
EVERY-
WHERE
IN
AUSTRALIA.
Ride a Bicycle
Built of Genuine
BSA 1
Fittings
Cheapest
in the end
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub. Free Wheel
on both gears, Back-pedalling and Fr«int-rim Brake, and Dunlop Tyres. As
ridden by FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
ANTHONY HORDCRN (& SONS LTD.,
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
Deaf People
Hear Whispers
With Common-Sense Ear Drums —
‘‘Wireless ’Phones ■for the Ears.”
For twenty years the Common-Sense
Ear Drums have been giving good hear-
ing to hundreds of thousands of deaf
people. Every condition of deafness or ‘
defective hearing is being
helped and cured, such as
Catarrhal Deafness, Relaxed
or Sunken Drums, Thickened
Drums, Roaring and Hissing
Sounds, Perforated or Parti-
ally Destroyed Drums, Drums
wholly Destroyed, Discharge
from Ears. No matter how
long standing the case may
be, there is hope of good hear-
ing for all the afflicted deaf.
The Common-Sense Ear Drums are made of soft,
sensitised material, comfortable and safe to
wear. They are out of sight when worn, and
easily adjusted by wearer.
Good hearing brings cheerfulness, comfort and
sunshine into the life of the lonely deaf. The
total cost is £ I—why not order to-day ?
ORDER FORM.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
103 Arlington Chambers,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please send me an Outfit containing a pair of
Wilson Common-Sense Ear Drums, an Inserter
and a Remover, for which I enclose One Pound.
Name
Address
NOTE. —Send Money Order or Postal Note.
If a Bank Note or Sovereign is sent, you must
register it.
THE DRUM
<N POSITION
t
~
ii
Abbey
Shoes
If you are one of those gentlemen
who insist on individuality, correct
style, comfort and long wear in
your shoes you will have your
wants well expressed in a pair of
Abbey Shoes.
The Boot we illustrate is a Tan
Willow Calf Bal., 22/6, 25/- and
27/6.
Also in Box Calf, 21/-, 25/-
In Glacd Kid, 22/6, 25/-, and
27/6.
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage extra.
Write for Catalog.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
J
Wk Supply—
ARRAH and Tasmanian Hard=
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALE, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68£ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.YV.
Branches in all parts of the world.
/
Vi
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘ARABIS’
Egyptian Henna before all others; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive you. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardley on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.


The “DUNCUFFE”
\ NEGLIGE HAT
should have a place in your wardrobe If
you value a combination of style and
comfort. , ..
Primarily Intended for Neglige wear, it
serves its purpose through and beyond.
For Evening wear . . . ordinary purposes,
for ’most any occasion.
LIGHT WEIGHT . . . INEXPENSIVE
Shades Grey, green and fawn.
Bows at back or side.
10/6.
POST 1/- EXTRA.
Hi ■
. ■HR
'V.v,
PIKE BROTHERS
TOWNSVILLE.
LIMITED
BRISBANE.
TOOWOOMBA.
INTEREST AWAKENED.
Interest awakened everywhere in the marvellous
cures of Cuts, Burns and Wounds with Dr, Sheldon’s
Magnetic Liniment. Is. 6d. and 3s. Obtainable
everywhere.*
Another
Edison
Phonograph
(Jo to your Edison. Dealer and ask to
hear the Amberola V.
This is the smallest Cabinet Edison
Phonograph yet —its size is only 16
x 22 inches. It is hornless, is fitted
with automatic stop and is enclosed
in a beautiful cabinet.
The Amberola V plays both Edison
Blue Amberol and Wax Amberol
Records, and would be a fine
Christmas present for your friend.
The nearest Edison Dealer will give
you full details, or write us direct.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale only),
Dept. 8., 364-372 KENT STREET, SYDNEY
’Murikan chemist Roberts, who has been
experimenting with prickly pear, claims that
the ash of the burnt leaf is worth £1 per
cwt. in America, and that heavily-infested
land will yie-ld 15cwt. of ash per acre. These
and other of Roberts’s figures are tall; still
he has secured the backing of a Victorian
syndicate, which includes hard-headed
Rupert Clarke and squatter Falkiner, so
there is apparently something in his claims.
The fact that Ex-Premier “Bob” Philp has
announced his impending retirement from the
chairmanship of the Q.M.E. Co., of Ross
River and Pinkenba, gives some color to tne
rumor that this co. may follow the lead ot
the N.Q.M.E. Co. and sell out to the rela-
tives of Swift and Co. To speed the parting
chairman, the Q.M.E. shareholders have had
his portrait in oils executed by Guthrie, a
Scottish artist of note.
THINNESS IS DANGEROUS.
EMINENT SPECIALIST TELLS HOV
THIN PEOPLE MAY PUT ON FLESH
AND BECOME STRONG, PLUMP AND
HEALTHY.
Thinness is unnatural and dangerous. R
is not necessarily the cause of consumptto •
indigestion, liver or catarrhal trouble,
in nearly every instance it is an mdicat
that something is radically wrong. .•
thin people may feel that they are per _ >
well; but after 30 years of active exp
I can truly say that I have never seen
extremely thin man or woman w
really healthy. Thin people are thin becau se
thev do not assimilate their food • ’
Thev may eat heartily, but their food a*
not make flesh, simply because the as sl ““®
tive organs are lacking in nerve tore •
is why thin people are so often ,
sleepless afid become addicted to t e
drugs. To supply this nerve force a n
food must be takeu, and I have had . re ® a t v, e
able results in nearly every .case from
use of a tonic nerve food which conta
drugs, consisting of soz. Tincture >
damoms Compound, 8.P., 20z., Salia .
pound, 3oz. Elixir Simplex and eflou^
water to fill an Boz. bottle. One each
tablespoonfuls should be taken b or de .
meal, or whenever excessive fatigue
pression is felt. Any chemist can Vecog-
pare this formula, and as it is wid y . gts
nised for its unusual efficacy, many t()e
now keep it in stock ready for use j n
name of Salrado Tonic. The increase
weight following the use of th . g and
markable, the nervousness, slee P le S pe ar:
other unnatural symptoms all P jrlow
dull eves become bright and palo
with the bloom of perfect health.— a-a ■
IN BANANA LAND
Archbishop Dunne (R.C.), of Brisbane,
celebrated the “Golden Jubilee” of his minis-
try on Wednesday, December 10. He is 80
years of age, and half a century ago came from
Ireland to Queensland. He was consecrated
Bishop in 1882, as successor to Bishop
O’Quinn, who was the first man to carry a
shepherd’s crook in these parts.
When George Reid landed at the Bris-
bane Central railway station there was no
fuss. The only people who looked excited
were the police. One of them ordered the
visitor’s son to move out of the road, and an-
other gave similar instructions to the railway
porter who was in charge of George’s lug-
gage.
“Pitman”: George Reid’s best speech in
Bananaland was thrown at the Journalists
at Brisbane, who fed him at lunch. The
menu cards were splashed all over with cor-
pulence, eyeglass and dog. This inspired
the guest to tell the story of the pup ail
over again. To The Bulletin’s dry-dog
and other artists he really owed very much,
he said —he never knew quite how much till
he once dived into the backblocks of West-
ralia and found that even there the boys,
large and small, knew him quite as well as
his own next-door neighbors. Coming back
to the bird in hand, George took it as a
compliment that rival papers had sent their
staffs in strong force to« meet him. But the
reports of the speech in their next issues
revealed a hoof-mark or two. The fact that
the editor of one old-established daily did not
put in an appearance whs not noticed so
much as that that paper’s report omitted to
mention that the editor of the other old-
established daily presided. It was really
very characteristic of the pettiness of Bris-
bane journalism.
The way the Swifts are doing things at
their new meat works on the Brisbane River
astonishes the natives. It is a whole-hog
concern. Though the work has been in pro-
gress for about a year, the substantial char-
acter of the job is shown by the fact that it
will take another year to finish. The massive
buildings occupy three or four acres of land
along the foreshores, and are flanked by lines
of wharves. The main structures run up
eight storeys. An eminence at the back* the
face of which has been chiselled off to let in
part of the works, gives easy access to the
higher floors, so that the stock can be fed
in to the top of the premises as they arrive by
train. The buildings are mostly of steel and
reinforced concrete, and the works Avill be
sufficiently advanced to treat stock —-sheep
chiefly—m nine months. When the visitor
asks if that is the Beef Trust’s works he is
offered a horrified glare in reply. They call
it the Australian Export Meat Company.
The other day the Brisbane Institute of
Architects went down in a body to lehrn a
thing or two about reinforced concrete. The
thermometer was bubbling at the century.
After sweltering around for an hour or two,
climbing stairs and swallowing dust and
cement, their pilot omitted an important
item. It was a study in energy to see the
way the party rushed to the refreshment
room at Hamilton on crossing the river.
They came to the conclusion that the Beef
Trust has no funds for irrigation..
A Brisbane daily advised that High Con-
ditioner Reid be asked to give a “humorous
entertainment in the Exhibition Hall” for
the benefit of the hospital. Reid’s self-in-
flicted reputation for buffoonery will stick
to him till his dying day—a dreadful, damn-
able asset.'
At the recent Islington show —the biggest
thing in England—-Queensland won more
prizes with its butter than any other State.
It scored 13; N. S. Wales’s little lot was 11,
Victoria’s <>. Maorijand’s 4 and S. Aus-
tralia’s 1. But while the experts had high
praise for Bananaland’s butter, they faulted
its bacon, the butchering of it principally.
Its cheese also fared badly, partly because
it had been stored with the butter in the
refrigerator. One Warwick cheese, in fact,
burst on the stand on the day of King
George’s visit, and might have stained the
royal vest but for a merciful dispensation
of Providence.
NO HURRY
NURSE (leading patient to the operating theatre): " They re waiting—hurry up!"
PATIENT : "W hat for! I've think I'm anxious to get a front seat!"
Warwick is still riven by a big industrial
dispute, although the daily press calls it by
another name. The Friendly Societies im-
ported a non-union doctor from Maoriland
(at £lOOO per annum), and duly installed
him in defiance of B.M.A, rules. This non-
unionist now demands the right to attend
patients in the general hospital, and the
five union doctors on the staff day they’ll
strike if he is allowed on the works. There
the matter stands for the present.
The City Council is the talk of the hour
in Brisbane. Even Propputy, whose creature
it is, has nothing but disgust for its latest
achievement. This is what is known as the
ferry scandal. Not long ago the Council set
out to build two steamers —one a horse punt,
the other a passenger boat. The former
has proved such a useless affair, due to
faulty design, that an expert from Sydney
has recommended that the engines be talmn
out and the hull sold for a hulk. The pas-
senger boat is not so bad, but many sugges-
tions for improvement are made regarding
that too. All this will involve an
expenditure running into about £5OOO.
Meantime the service is losing the rate-
payers about £3OOO a year. Socialism is the
Council’s nightmare; and if it judges Social-
ism by the sort of service which it gives to
the public itself, then it has every reason to
regard the thing as a nightmare. But an
ass has no right to say that sculpture is a
fraud just because it can’t kick out much of
a statue itself.
Doctrine.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Last-night the moon was like a threat.
It frowned across the world ;
The ship of clouds along the sky
Her sunny sails had furled;
The rivlr wept among the reeds
Like some pale widow in her weeds,
And through dark pools of mystery
The white mists upward curled.
Across the moon the black boughs scrawled
Strange words I might not read;
The very skies were leaning down
To puzzle o’er the screed ;
The wind went shuddering through the smoke
That from the factory chimneys broke ;
The quivering furnace by the town
With red tongue seemed to plead....
Last night the moon was great and round ;
It seemed to me the eye
Of some far, unforgiving God
Who wills that Man shall die;
And plans for him a narrow path
Down which to flee from Heaven’s wrath,
And, lest the way be lightly trod.
Paves it with agony !
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, December 13, 1913.
My Dear Thargomindah.—
When all else fails an ornamental Gov-
ernor can keep his job sweet by flitting from
school to school, patting the over-crammed
scholar on the examination marks, handing
over prizes and beaming on teachers and
proud mammas w-here they preen themselves.
The Macgregor and his missus have been
finding this out during the week at various
prize-givings. Ipswich Grammar School
cluttered a welcome on Thursday, All Hal-
lows’ Convent dittoed the same night, then
the State schools in turn.
On Monday evening president Coakes and
the Brisbane Club outdid all bidders and se-
cured Eye Commissioner Reid as guest at a
square feed. This was the only invitation
of a private nature that George accepted
(perhaps the others were only to light re-
freshments), and the Brisbane Club-ites now
walk with the conscious swagger of props of
Empire. “Bob” Philp proposed the 1 plump
man’s health, and George did the same kindly"
office for Digby 11., who leaves this week
for the Pawnshop Country.
Mrs. Denham and some four tons of lug-
gage left by the Orsova on Wednesday.
Digby and the others of the party will board
the same craft in Melbourne. The Pre-
mieress was not accorded any formal fare-
wells, but some of the charities she has
worked for lifted up an appreciative voice,
and through the secretaries murmured
“Good-bye.”
On Tuesday night president Coakes and
his attractive wife fed the members of the
Brisbane Club, their wives and best girls on
board the Emerald. This trusty vessel, bear-
ing some 300 appetites, put out from port
skilfully disguised in much bunting, several
rods of greenery, and a few hundred electric
lights. She looked quite skittish for a barge
of her years. Billy Crisp and Fred Wat*,*
made melodious noises on the main floor
while Bob Kaye thumped the accom Z'
ments in the teeth of the piano \p
Iyelleher’s band was responsible for the iW
ot the music*. I don’t know who was respon
sible for the supper, or I’d send you the
address in large type.
Mrs. Arthur Feez and daughter Mve
companied by handsome Marjorie Green
have departed to Coolangatta, 'whence thev
will make their way to Svdney late
they will take vessel to Maoriland, and re’
turn Marjorie to her family. Feez
also is visiting the South.
A bust of the founder of the Order of the
Sisters of Mercy was unveiled at the Mater
Misericordi* Hospital yesterday. It was
erected by Dr. Lilian Cooper and the other
members of the hon. medical staff, in memory
of the late Sisteh Mary Antonio and Sister
Mary Felix, two dear women who were uni-
versally beloved. Archbishop Duhig did the
unveiling, and I)rs. Taylor. Hopkins, Hirsch-
feld and Cooper expressed general regrets
What money is over when the memorial is
paid for goes towards an X-ray fund for thn
hospital.
On Tuesday afternoon Miss Large, the
popular headmistress of the Girls’ Central
State School, was handed a necklet of aqua-
marines as a sort of farewell. The lady-
lea ves next week for Sydney, where she wiil
join a I’, and O. boat for England.
To-night the Irish Association is indus-
triously farewelling P. J. McDermott, who
is a valuable member. He.is to stand at the
right hand of Digby Denham while the hat
is being sent round in England.
On Monday afternoon the annual display
of work by past and present pupils was made
at All Hallows. While the visitors wan-
dered about examining the paintings and
needlework, the school orchestra played good
music. ( I know it was music, because it
wasn’t ragtime.) Afterwards a band of
nice girls in white and blue handed round
tea and other edibles. The convent is noted
for the number of good musicians who have
first discovered and developed their musical
abilities under its roof, so it was to be ex-
pected that the annual concert on Thursday
evening would be largely attended. The
only thing wrong with the expectation was
that it was under-estimated. Even the ver-
andahs creaked.
Mrs. E. M. Irvine, of the Sydney Daily
Telegraph, who returned to this hamlet
last week, has been tea-ed to saturation. To-
day she retaliated on about two dozen of the
enemy before retreating on Toowoomba for a
spell.
Last night at the Dandies, while a large
audience was enjoying itself in the open air,
the Heavens were suddenly uncorked by the
Celestial Barman (presumably Jeremiah,
who on a great occasion attempted to souse
the house of the Rechabites). Just when it
appeared that somebody was in risk of being
drowned, the male Dandies arrived, swathed
in raincoats, and towed all females to the
covered stage.
Our songstress, Mrs. Gilbert Wilson, will
eat her Christmas pudding (if she ever
touches the , unpleasant delicacy her ap-
pearance much belies her) in Melbourne.
Contralto Lena Hammond and her mother
have taken a flat in Sydney, and will be away
for about three months; and pianiste Lucy
Baker will rusticate in the Blackall Ranges.
The only compensation offering for the tem-
porary loss of all this musical talent is Allen
Doone, who has decided to come and warble
to us, and next Saturday will start chanting
his little lays at His Majesty’s Theatre.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.


N
. ,n
\ ■
%
%
%
(i
m
»
V
CHIN-CHIN !
w
*
y
I
\
4
%
X
\
\
4
y,
♦
♦
S
/
VvL
V.
w
"S
DRINK


From youth
to old age
See this
mark on
package.
HEALTH
demands constant care.
SCOTT’S builds up
the system, enriches
the blood, repairs life’s
wear and tear, and pro-
tects against coughs,
bronchitis, whooping
cough and all throat
and chest ailments.
The world’s doctors
recommend genuine
scorn
Emulsion
Be sure to see th©
fishman on the package.
Apollinaris
Annual filling at the Anollinaris Spring
Year 1901 ■ - • 27,000,000 Bottles
Year 1911 - - • 37,000,000 Bottles
"THE QUEEN OF TABLE WATERS”
Lactobacilline
is prepared under the authority and scientific control
of
PROFESSOR METCHNIKOFF,
the famous scientist whose discoveries have revolu-
tionised the art of medicine. By its use the putre-
factive bacillus in the intestinal tract is destroyed,
and a condition of
PERFECT HEALTH
is obtained.
LACTOBACILLINE
is prescribed and used by tens of thousands of
Physicians, and hundreds of thousands of patients
have testified to its value. Lactobacilline not only
cures, it prevents disease. Lactobacilline is pre-
pared in tablet form. Price, 5/6 per box, con-
taining eight cylinders of tablets. Each package
bears the words, “Le Ferment seul Fournisseur
du Professur Metehnikoff,” without which none are
genuine.
It can be obtained through any chemist, or direct
from the DepBt Socie'te le Ferment, Australasia
Chambers, 406-414 Queen Street, Brisbane; or
Branches: Vickery’s Chambers, 82 Pitt Street, Syd-
ney ; Safe Deposit Buildings, Queen Street, Mel-
bourne ; Ellershaw’s Buildings, Cliff Street,
Fremantle; Smeeton’s Buildings, Queen Street,
Auckland.
IMPROVED
Compass
Clynometer
iFor Taking LEVELS antf ANGLES.
Reading inclinations in inches
per yard or degrees.
Invaluable to Prospector, Miner, Geologist,
Engineer and Squatter.
Strong, Compact. Best lacquer brass,
2Mn. dia., Solid Leather Case.
Printed Instructions. POSTED
22/6
A. P. Greenfield & Co. Ltd.
189-191 George Street, Brisbane.
APENTA
NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Obtainable all Chemist*.
1
.«OTf
2<*
ii
A HOME FOR
MELBOURNE GUESTS.
«
Corner Flinders Street
and Spencer Street,
MELBOURNE.
Sir Charles Hotham Hotel
Hunyadi Janos
The prime recommendation of Hunyadi Janos Natural
Aperient Water is that it far surpasses manufactured
aperients as a remedy for Constipation, Biliousness, Indi-
gestion, Hemorrhoids, Torpid Liver, etc. It is bottled
at the springs, just as Nature creates it, without the addition
of any other constituent.
All chemists sell Hunyadi Janos. Get a bottle to-day.
ONS
Wonderful WorKing Models.
Marvels of Mechanical Ingenuity.
SPECIAL DISPLAY AT JERDAN’S. BRING THE BOYS TO SEE THEM WORK.
We are making a Special Display in our Windows of the Latest in Scientific Toys.
THESE BOTH INSTRUCT AND AMUSE.
SCIENCE COMBINED WITH PLEASURE.
MODELS OF
THE AUSTRALIAN NAVY LOCOMOTIVES
DREADNOUGHTS HORIZONTAL ENGINES
MAILBOATS VERTICAL ENGINES
TORPEDO BOATS DYNAMOS
SUBMARINES CINEMATOGRAPHS, etc., etc.
AND THE PRICES RANGE FROM 616.
MECANNO,” “ A Thousand Models in One.’
Also * 6
The Masterpiece,
Even the Smallest Child can make his own Working Models from 5/- the set.
OPEN ON FRIDAY NIGHTS.
JERDANS LTD.
393 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
The hind that
fills itself."
Che Uery
Ching for Christmas
You need no longer worry about to give your friends. Give
them all ONOTO pens. You can buy them daintily packed and
labelled, ready for posting at the Shop.
All you have to do is to write the address, and stamp.
An ONOTO is a gift that is sure to please. It is the fountain pen
that fills itself, cleans itself, never leaks, and never scratches. It is
a model of simplicity.
The Onoto is and is guaranteed by its makers.
THE SAFETY PEN NEVER LEAKS.
Price 12/-, and in a variety of more elaborate styles for presentation purposes, of all
Stationers, Jeweller' and Stores. Booklet about the Onoto Pen free on application
THOS DE LA RUE & CO., Ltd., 182 Bunhill Row, London, E.C., or the Australasian
Representatives, Norman Baker & Longhurst, 50 York Street, Sydney.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Chetwynd : If you want the stuff printed,
take it, strike out every non-essential word, arid send
us the balance. This paper wants to keep on the
track of everything of consequence that happens in a
whole continent, and when that contract is filled there
is no space to spare. Tiie Bulletin will be twice
as good when it can say all it says at present in half
the space, and have the other half for facts and ideas
which are now crowded out by words... .Nox: Can’t
answer a question put in such general terms.... Ding-
bat: Thanks; but it throws no new light.... Eng-
lishwoman : Don’t remember it, though it was printed
that she preferred to be known as Lady Edeline, it
being evidently of more consequence to be a lord’s
daughter than a baronet’s wife. .. .Urgent: Yes, it can
be done; but the process would be expensive
Cynicus: One or two are passable; but, on the whole,
they don’t appeal to u 5.... Corpuscle: For a while, the
N.S.W. Parliamentary Labor party had no leader.
Cook was the first to be regularly chosen.. ..T.E.L.: Ned
Kelly was captured on June 28,1880, and executed in
Melbourne Gaol on November 11, 1880. . . .0.5.: The
yarn may be all right; but the fact that you made
his father a Baptist instead of a Bible Christian par-
son suggests that you are not too intimate with the
family history F.R. (Gippsland, V.) : Green
verse. .. .F.L. (Sydney) : Unsuitable. .. .G.E.L.: “Our
Island Home” is very reverent and windy... .We can’t
print it, and we refuse to sing it.... Arthur: Your
poem, “The Joys of Damnation,” is an interesting
and vigorous production, but it might raise the sec-
tarian ghosts. Try a religious paper; it is the busi-
ness of religious papers to raise ghosts..... Riah: Bit
labored M.J.G.: Has no print value here... .Plain
Mary Ann: Don’t get annoyed about the famous
beauty’s recommendation of housework as an aid to
loveliness. It was probably just press-agent blither.
... .R.N.C.: Thin verse written in faint pencil. You
made dead-certain of the basket this time. .. . A.E.K.
(S.A.) : Your letter: “I was prompted to write this
most hellish poem through the interference of our
parsons down here over Sunday golf.” And it proved
to be quite a mild poem, after a 11.... Clara Dobie:
Please send your full address to this office
M.K.T.: Dreary sort of story, and you can’t do it
convincingly G.E.A.R.: An inferior poem full of
honest enthusiasm.... Inosit: You trifle awhile with
an ancient idea- —that’s all the story amounts t 0....
A.8.H.: Heavy going, and it only leads to the
basket. .. .C.A.L.: “Sunset” and “Passing of the
Gods ' passed out. .. .Elizabeth White: Your tribute
to the departed :■ —-
He who was our late M,P.
Went out in the tug the new Dreadnought to see
When over the bar the sea made him sick
He went home to bed and he died very quick ;
The largest funeral this town ever seen ;
Nobody could say that he was mean ;
He got work for as many as ever he could ;
Now ask yourself could you have done as good.
He was not long lying in his grave
When the new election came on, oh! how they raved
Which man would get his vacant seat;
Why Paddy Web)) he won it and that pretty neat
And Mick and Michael had no tale to tell
Because everyone wishes our new member well;
If Paddy can do all the late member done
He will always be able to stick to his guns;
So let Sir Arthur lie nuietly in his last sleep
For he has gone to the land where no Parliament
meets.
... .S.H. (Bondi) : Sorry no use. .. . J.L.8.: “Breezes”
now blowing the other way....S. Moker: Better
light your pipe l with it.... Joseph A.D.: You arrive
snorting at the starting gate about six weeks after
the race. What’s your hurry?....R. (M.L.): Verses
generally lack finish and originality... .R.H.G.:
Undistinguished verse —a dull-grey pattern
W.F.H.: Papuan sketch held for a second reading... .
E.: Oh, send it direct to M!. .. .L.J.V.: N 0....
Frank P. (Sydney): Cooking item misses. .. .H.H.
(Vic.): Thin humor. Try it elsewhere... .J.C.M.: A
poet who wants to be taken serionslv should endea-
vour to write so that the word “wilderness” cannot
be mistaken at first sight for “jumble sale.”
Imagine immortal Omar saying—“ And jumble sale
were paradise enow.” Patchy: Well, it's hardly
patchy. It’s really blanky. .. . J.A.C.: Not missing;
probably Mrs.-ing. .. . Squiff: Certainly there are, as
a rule, many applicants for public lands when they
are thrown open as farms in N. S. Wales ; but the
number is mostly exaggerated, and nobody promotes
or relishes the exaggeration more than the big land-
lord and the country land agent. Their business is to
circulate the idea that thousands of people are clam-
oring for soil, and thus justify their own extortionate
prices. As a matter of fact, when 50 farms are
thrown open and you read that there are 5000 appli-
cants, you can be pretty well sure that 100 men have
applied for every block (or thereabouts). It doesn’t
cost more to apply for 50 blocks than for one
Gunnah: Thanks. He didn’t profess to write a com-
plete history of the man... .W.P.8.: Too small
potatoes.
Dr. Breinl, of the Townsville Institute of
Tropical Medicine, believes, like other men
who know, that the Northern Territory is a
tit home for a white population ; but he is
strongly of opinion that it will not be a fit
home if Asiatics are also allowed in. Apart
from the difficulty, amounting almost to
impossibility, of making them obey sanitary
laws, Breinl remarks of the Asiatic nations
that they are permeated with contagious
and infectious diseases, and the flow of dis-
colored people backwards and forwards
would always keep the country supplied
with small-pox, leprosy, plague and other
troubles.
“Ela”: Here’s another instance of the
decadence of the White Man who lives and
works in the tropics. I met him amongst
the mountains that form the watershed of
the Lakekamu River (Papua). I had just
reached the summit of a particularly steep
peak, and was stretched out getting my
wind back, when a voice behind me re-
marked, “Fine day, Mister.” I turned
around and saw a very old but vigorous-
looking man leaning on a sapling and fan-
ning himself with his hat. Responding to his
greeting I suggested a smoke, and the
ancient sat down and commenced to talk. I
gleaned these particulars about him. He
had been mining all over the world —Klon-
dike, Madagascar, Siberia, Maoriland, S’
Africa, Australia and Papua, and had
chased the elusive ’weight for 55 years, com-
ing to Papua for the first field —Sudest
Island —in 1887. He was a native of Den-
mark, and nearly 79 years of age, but was
still well and strong, and was expecting to
have “a bit o’ a spell in Sydney next Cris-
muss.” Talking about things Australian,
he showed himself as patriotic as if he had
been a native of the continent, and he was
l ooking forward to seeing some of the Aus-
tralian warships when he went south. He
planned to recruit a fresh team of “boys”
on his return and go out on a prospecting
trip among the: mountains across the border
in the German portion of the island, for he
thought “there was a bit o’ metal lying out
there waiting for somebody to come along
and pick up,” and he wanted to get “a bit
of stuff” put by against his old age!


Do You Use Glass Instru-
ments in Your Calling ?
Do you use Scientific Glassware in
your calling? We manufacture and
repair them to exact standard re-
quirements, and guarantee their per-
fect accuracy.
If you wish special instruments made
for any purpose, tell us your needs
and we will quote you for the neces-
sary design.
Our Booklet, illustrating Scientific
Glassware of every kind, is free
Shall we send you a copy?
WILSON NAFIS 8 CO. LTD.,
Wharf Street, Brisbane, Q.
Tested
and
tried
and prescribed for thousands ot cases
of weak digestion and loss of jiealth and
strength. The vast number of testi-
monials received from Medical men
testify to this. It is the finest Health
Food-Drink for all ages, made of
purest milk and cereals.
HQRUCK'S
MALTED MILK
is immensely popular in Australia.
It is ready for use and needs no
cooking and makes a most delicious
drink —giving health and strength to
all.
Of all Chemists
and J tores.
Get it at the Sods
Fountain.
Australia
has proved
it best
r 'Ringing for More! 1
V*4£ia. Il^ji
Bird’s
Custard
stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess*
Has stood the test of time
L Over 70 years ’ success . A
Kriischen
Salts
•'low sold by Chemists turoughout cue common wealth.
Wholesalj importers:
U. & W. GREAR, 23/. -darenei Street. SYDNEY.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
NEXT ANNUAL DISTRIBUTION OF PROFITS AS AT 31st DECEMBER, 1913.
S . A }l Participating Policies issued in the Ordinary Department before the close of the current year will
snare in the Cash Bonus to be then allotted. J
Cash Bonus Divided for Year 1912 £936 971
\ielding Reversionary Additions to Policies of over. .. . £1.040 000
Total Cash Bonuses distributed £17,790,073
benefited thistar’s I Brnius° aBSurance or a further assurance on your life, in order ’to reap the
of thl^sodet 01 " fUU particulars to the Head offlce ’ 87 Pitt Street > Sydney; or any District Office or Agent
RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S., General Manager and Actuary.
H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
Bargains
FROM
ENGLAND
BARGAINS
FOR
ALL.
PAWNBROKERS’
Clearance Sale
SEND AT ONCE FOR OUR
FULL LIST OF
3,500
GENUINE BARGAINS
ASTOUNDING VALUE.
Brimming over with money-saving possibilities.
Patronised by Royalty and the Nobility.
Bankers:
London Comity & Westminster Bank,
Camberwell Branch, London.
W E 'ff p V r e o e f V s *“ T ahm \ eS '5 please ol,r Customers, hence onr remarkable
„„„ oßer of Si„ Months Free Approval. Examine the articles you may choose at vour
hilh ° W ? ’T 6 ’ a " d lf yo V are 110 t deli « hted and fully satisfied with the
high quality and exceptional value, return them to us within si” months and we will
immediately return your deposit. we wl "
May we solicit a trial order P Absolute satisfaction guaranteed
or money returned in full.
TERMS OF BUSINESS.—Any Article Sent on Approval. Carriage
Free, on receipt of remittance. Cash refunded in full for goods
not approved and returned us within six months.
Bead what “The Christian Age” says
"DAVIS 6c Co., of 26 Denmark Hill, have gained
considerable reputation for supplying unredeemed
pledges at very moderate prices. We gather from
their latest Bargain List that great savings can be
effected by purchasing a second-hand article of
jewellery which has just had enough wear to test
•ts value at about one-third the original cost price.
Included in their catalogue are watches by some of
the finest m ikers in the world.”
Read what “Great Thoughts” says—
" There cannot exist much doubt as to the intrinsic
value of any advertised article when such advertisers
are willing to send the goods advertised on the
Approval System. This system is adopted by
Messis. I)A vIS «k Co., and is a singular proof that
Messrs. DAVIS <fc Co. have every belief in their
ability to please their customers and prove the
genuine nature of their announcements.”
14/6
12/6
Field, Race, or Marine Glasses.
£3/3/- Military Binocular (by Lefaier),
»s supplied to officers in the Army and Navy;
10 achromatic lenses ; 50 miles range ; shows
bullet mark at 1,000-yds.; saddler made case ;
great bargain; sacrifice, 14/6.
Q1 l m Powerful £4/4/- Binocular Field
I / Glasses (by Chevalier) ; 10 lens
magnification power, brilliant definition, o\er
60 miles range, great depth of focus, large
field of view ; adjusted to the degree
of scientific accuracy; in saddh , made sling
case ; tremendous bargain ; sacrifice, £1/1/-
QT/C Powerful £8/8/- Double Draw Bino-
Of/O culars, 12 lens magnification power
(by Lumiere), as supplied to H.R.H. the Crown
Prince of Greece; most powerful glass made;
name of ship can be distinctly read five miles
from shore; quick focus, brilliant field of view,
colourless achromatic crystal lenses, enhanced
stereoscopic effect, great penetration power ; in
solid brown English leather case; sacrifice,£1/17/6
Gent’s heavy 18-ct. Gold-cased
Keyless Leyer Hunter Watch,
improved action (John Forrest, London); 10
years' warranty; absolutely perfect timekeeper;
also Double Curb Albert, same quality with
handsome Compass attached ; all quite indis-
tinguishable from new; complete, sacrifice, 12/6.
1 ty /C Lady’s handsome 18-ct. Gold-cased
I /LI U Keyless Watch, improved action
(Allen & Co., London); exact timekeeper; 10
years' warranty; also long Watch Guard, elegant
design, same quality; together, sacrifice, 12/6.
-| C//J (Worth £4/4/-). Real Russian Furs.
I U/ 0 Rich, dark sable brown Fur, 8-ft.
long; Granville Stole, deep shaped collar,
beautifully trimmed, 12 tails and heads; large
Granny Muff matching; together, 15/6.
OO /ft (Worth £5/5/-). Real Russian Furs.
Rich, dark sable brown, extra long
Princess Stole, trimmed with head and tails at
back and on shoulders; also large animal Muff,
with heads and tails hanging; in perfectly new
condition ; together, great sacrifice, £1/2/6.
1 O /C Gent’s fashionable Double Albert,
I Jmj 0 18-ct. Gold (stamped) filled, curb
pattern, heavy solid links; sacrifice, 12/6.
■i Q /C Lady’s £4/4/- 18-ct. Solid Gold, hall-
10/0 marked, Diamond and Sapphire
Doublet Half-hoop Ring, claw setting, large
faultless stones; sacrifice, 18/6.
*711 / Lady’s £13/13/- 5-Stone Diamond
/ U/" and Sapphire Half-hoop Ring, 18-ct.
Gold, Government hall-marked, claw setting,
containing two large round diamonds of dazzling
whiteness and three beautiful sapphires of
richest quality; sacrifice, £3/10/-
OC /C Gent’s £4/4/- fashionable Dark Grey
Tweed Jacket Suit (by Stroud,
High-class Tailor) ; splendid quality, latest
West End cut and finish, never worn ; breast
39-in., waist 36-iu., length 52J-in.; £1/6/6.
Oft/ft , La ,? y ’ 8 5/5 /' 8o,ld Gold English,
£\3 \t hall-marked, Keyless Watch, highly
finished lewelled movement, exact timekeeper,
richly engraved; 12 years’ warranty ; £1/6/6.
7fl/- Magnificent Gent’s £13/13/- Single
I U' Stone Diamond Ring, exceptionally
fane pure white stone, perfect in every respect,
mounted in 18-ct. Gold, Government hall-
marked, claw setting ; sacrifice, £3/10/-
9 ft /ft £ ad y’ s £5/5/- Solid Gold long Watch
“ V/ w Guard, handsome and very stylish
in pattern, stamped and guaranteed, in faultless
and new condition ; sacrifice, £1/6/6.
ft ft/- Gen t’s magnificent £11/11/- 8olid
\f\il Gold English, hall-marked, Keyless
Lever, Centre Seconds, Chronograph Stop
Watch, exam, by celebrated watchmaker (W.
Russell, London); jewelled movement, perfect
reliability in any climate in the world ; timed to
a minute a month; 20 years’ warranty; 6 months'
trial; great bargain; sacrifice, £2/15/-
ftQ /ft Lad y’s magnificent £11/11/- Diamond
U CP / U and Sapphire Cluster Ring, 18-ct.Gold,
hall-marked ; there are ten white and faultless
diamonds surrounding a superb sapphire of
richest quality ; to appreciate the full beauty of
this Ring it must be seen ; sacrifice, £2/19/6.
OQ/C ® a by’s Long Clothes, superfine
V quality, magnificent £5/5/- parcel,
82 articles, everything required; beautiful
garments ; the perfection of mother's personal
work; never worn; great sacrifice, £1/9/6.
OO/fi Valuable Violin (worth £10/10/-),
J— “/ w perfect condition, labelled Stradivarius
Cremona, 1721 ; rich mellow tone, with Bow
and Case, suit professional or soloist; £1/12/6.
"J O /ft (Worth £3/3/-). Choice Expanding
ly/U Watch Bracelet; finest workman-
ship, most successful ever invented, will fit
and grip any wrist, thereby avoiding all vibration
and ensuring perfect timekeeping; 18-ct. Gold-
cased ; 6 months’ trial; sacrifice, 13/6.
1 O /Q (Worth£1/15/-), Eightsuperfinequality
■ Chemises, Knickers, and Petticoats ;
magnificent parcel; sacrifice, 12/9.
OQ/ft Spoons and Forks. (£10/10/- Set).
03/ U A1 quality, silver-plated on nickel
silver, stamped maker’s initials, Queen Anne
pattern; 12 Table, 12 Dessert, 12 Tea Spoons,
12 Table, 12 Dessert Forks; Service 5 doz.;
wonderful bargain, £1/19/6; Half-Set, £1.
1 fi /ft £ as hionabIe Curb Chain Padlock
I U/ U Bracelet, with safety chain, solid
links, 18-ct. Gold (stamped) filled, in velvet case;
sacrifice, 10/6; another heavier, 12/6.
QC/£J (Worth £4/4/-). Twenty-four superfine
£y/U quality Nightdresses, Chemises,
Knickers, Petticoats, Combinations, &c.;
tremendous bargain ; sacrifice, £1/6/6. ’
6/0 Prel *y Necklet, with Heart Pendant
/ IJ attached, set Parisian pearls and tur-
quoises; elegant design; 18-ct. Gold (stamped)
filled ; in velvet case ; bargain ; sacrifice, 6/9.
DAVIS & CO,
(T)
PAWNBROKERS,
26 DENMARK HILL,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
When Weaning Baby The ‘Allenburys’ Milk Food No. 1
On the addition of water as directed, it forms an accurately estimated
humanised milk, and may be given alternately with the natural food
without fear of upsetting the child or causing digestive disturbance.
Weaning can therefore proceed gradually with comfort both to mother
and child. Farinaceous foods should not be given at this time.
43Uenburgs Foods
fcjg" PAMPHLET ON INFANT FEEDING AND MANAGEMENT FREE ‘‘^o
Allen & Hanburvs Ltd.
LONDON, ENGLAND, and
MASIIET ST2EET, SYDNEY.
HOLIDAY
MUSIC
FOR A MERRY XMAS
You Must Have MUSIC.
Here are some Real Bargains In Instru-
ments. All guaranteed sound and
reliable—and the prices are right.
CONCERTINAS—
No. 2 “Dudley”—lmitation Rosewood tops, 10
Bone Keys, 5-fold Am. cloth bellows, trumpet
holes, nickel mounts and clasps, complete in
handsome box, post free, 10/r.
With real Rosewood tops, post free 12/6.
ACCORDEONS—
No. O Model—Bjin. x 4jin., Mahogany stained
mouldings, 2 sets reeds, 10 nickel keys and
pallets, 2 bass stops, 8-fold double bellows,
nickel corners. Post free, 10/-.
Other models in stock.
AUTOHARPS
No. 1 “Auto,” a handsome, well-made instru-
ment, 18in. x 10in., 20 strings, 3 manuals,
complete instructions free. Easy to learn, easy
to play. Post free, 15/-.
Larger size, 25 strings, 3 manuals, post free,
22/6.
MOUTH ORGANS
The Celebrated “Bess o’ th’ Barn” Mouth
Organs, of excellent tone and tune, 1/-, 1/6, 2/-,
Ocarinas, Flageolets, Jaw’s
Harps & other Instruments.
Write for Lists, Post Free.
A. P. SYKES,
272 Little Collins'Street,
MELBOURNE.
t**o OO0«5 KOM tni.e'S tOO«AHC«»E
MO DEL 'V
E O
V
THE HEART OP THE AUTOMOBILE—
THE FAMOUS
Sche bier Carburetter
The best Carburetter for ALL PETROL ENGINES
—either Land or Marine, Stationary or Moving:.
The Schebler makes your engine develop
greater horse-power for a less consumption
of fuel.
The Schebler holds many world’s records.
Booklet and all information free.
Correspondence invited.
ROBERT C. SWAN & CO. LTD.,
304 PITT STREET. SYDNEY,
Sole Agents for Australia.
THIS MEDICI/NE CHEST
SHOULD BE IN YOUR HOME
/ For the Bush Home, where \
iiles\
the medical man may be miles
away, a Medicine Chest is often
the means of saving life, ft certainly
dots away with calling in a doctor for
ilments. We pack a chest con-
/minor ailments. We pack a cnest con-
taining a remedy for all ordinary illnesses
and accidents of life, prepared by a legally
\
prepared by a legally
qualified chemist according to the directions
of a leading physician. T HERE ARE 25 REME-
DIES: — Liniments and Washes for Sprains and
Bruises: Ointments for external application:
Medicines and Powders for internal taking,
with full supply of Lints, Plasters, Bandages
etc. Mind there is no quackery about this
Chest, any open minded doctor to whom
you show it will approve of it. Packed
carefully & sent to any address in the J
for Carriage Paid^
25/-
FREE OffER-The
Home Medical Book
sent Post Free.
THE HOME MEDICINE SUPPLY
PeTRIES BIGHT BRI»Bkt16
for a fair dinkum go;
... TRY THE ...
£jl
006000000
e
o
MEZON
Accordeons
The World’s Best
35/-, 42/- 63/-
Sole Agent:
LYONS,
I Bourke st.,Melb.


Arnott’s Milß. Arrowroot Biscuits
"THE CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
Amusements.
HE GREAT WHITE CIT
OF A THOUSAND DELIGHTS.
THE ONLY PLACE OF ITS KIND IN
AUSTRALIA.
FREE ATTRACTIONS
IN OPEN-AIR THEATRE.
THE SAVOLAS,
Demons on the High Wire.
THE DECARS,
Assisted by TOMATO —the Ass.
And other First-Class Acts.
WHITE CITY MILITARY BAND.
WORLD’S FINEST PLEASURE PARK.
ADMISSION SIXPENCE.
NIGHTLY: 6.30 to 11. WEDS, and SATS, 2 to 11.
H
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
NEXT SATURDAY, DECEMBER 20,
J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd., invites you to
COME OYER HERE,
Via THE BOX OFFICE.
FIRST REVUE SEASON IN AUSTRALIA.
PLANS AT PALING’S.
I I> EI,I’ II 1 TII EA T RE. SYDN IS Y.
* Direction GEORGE WILLOUGHBY, LTD.
LAST THREE NIGHTS,
The New and Powerful Play with a Purpose,
A GIRL’S TEMPTATION.
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 24,
“ALADDIN” PANTOMIME.
POPULAR PRICES: 4/-. 3/-, 2/-and 1/-
A 1. A C E T II IS A U IS. SYDNEY.
Direction WILLIAM ANDERSON.
A DAY AT THE RACES.
A Sparkling Musical Burlesque Opens.
SATURDAY EVENING NEXT.
Reappearance of the
AMERICAN MUSICAL BURLESQUE CO.
Box Plan now open at PALING’S.
PRICES: 5/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-
National ampjutiiisatre. Sydney.
Governing Director: BEN J. FULLER.
BRENNAN-FULLEIt’S VAUDEVILLE CIRCUIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HOWARD’S BEARS AND DOGS,
MANTELL’S MARIONETTE HIPPODROME.
FIVE MUSICAL LASSIES, Tuneful Harmony.
THE RONDAS TRIO, Dexterity and Skill on Wheels.
RAY LARGAY & SUE SNEE.
GREAT GUZMANI TRIO. THE THREE LUXORS.
And Others.
PRICES: 3/-, 2/-, 1/6, 1/- Plan at Theatre.
Q LACIARIUM AND OLYMPIA, SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S IUCTUDBS, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEE—SATURDAY.
DE GROEN’S VICEREGAL ORCHESTRAS.
3d. to 2s. Plans at Nicholson’s (No Extra Feel,
g PENCE It’S LYCEUM, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
The World’s Best Pictures.
OUR N LAV MIN rSTBR.
A Great Rural Drama in Three Parts.
PRICES: 1/6, l/-&6d. BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
IMPERIAL THEATRE,
William Street, Hyde Park.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
ALL STAR FEATURE PICTURES.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 20.
A MIRACLE PLAY
(SISTER BEATRIX.)
PRICES POPULAR.
yOICE PRODUCTION AND SINGING.
MR. ROLAND FOSTER,
who is specially recommended as a teacher by
MADAME CLARA BUTT
and
MR. KENNERLEY RUMFORD,
also by SIGNOR TULLIO VOGHERA and Mr. W. J.
SAMUELL .(Quinlan Opera Co.),
will open a studio in Sydney early in the New
Year. Auditions and interviews December 20 on-
wards. EXPERT PREPARATION for every branch
of the profession and all exams. Thorough tuition
in Breathing, Tone Production, Diction, Style and
Interpretation. Professionals coached in Oratorio,
Opera, Lieder, etc.
Address: c/o .T. & N. Tait, Nicholson’s.
Edward branscombe’s
FIVE COMPANIES OF
DAND I B S
Appear Nightly at
EDEN GARDENS, MANLY.
CREMORNE GARDENS, BRISBANE.
ESPLANADE, ST. KILDA.
EXHIBITION GARDENS, ADELAIDE.
OLYMPIA, PERTH.
Rickard s’ tiv o l i i heat k k.
Governing Director .. HUGH D. MoINTOSH.
E. FREDERIC HAWLEY & CO., in Vaudeville
Melodrama.
DL T CALION on the Tottering Ladder.
BARTON & ASHLEY, presenting “Money Talks.”
FERRY CARWEY, Musical Clown.
THE FIVE PETLEYS, Sensational Gymnasts.
PASQUALI BROS., Equilibrists.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
Prices: 5/-, 4/- and lI-
OP ER A HOU S E. MELBO U R X E.
Governing Director: Mr. HUGH D. McINTOSII.
ROSA ROMA, Gipsy Violinist.
LUCILLE SAVOY, the Singing Venus.
DOODY and WRIGHT, Knockabout Sketch Artists.
FRANK PARISH, Sensational Barrel Jumper.
THE REXOS, Comedy Jugglers,
GENE GREENE, the Emperor of Ragtime.
IBEX, the Shadowgraphist.
CHARLES ZOU, Quaint Comedian.
Plan at Allan’s. IWPRICES —45., 35., 25., Is.
Amusements.
THE KING’S THEATKK, MELBOURNE.
* Sole Lessee and Manager: William Andekson.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, DECEMBER 20.
First Production in Australia of the Mirthful Musical
Fantasy,
THE LAND OE NOD.
POPULAR PRICES. PLANS AT ALLAN’S.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietors: GEO. WILLOUGHBY LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, DECEMBER 20,
Geo. Willoughby Ltd. presents
an Entirely New Dramatisation of
UNCLE TOM’S CABIN.
ADMISSION: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/- Plan at Pianola Co.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, DECEMBER 20.
First Production -of the Stupendous Pantomime
Extravaganza,
THE FOBTY THIEVES.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 65.. 45., 2s. and Is.
TII EAT R E ROY A L. MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
FOR A FEW NIGHTS ONLY,
LEWIS WALLER, together with Miss MADGE
TITILERADGE, and a Complete Company, in
MISS ELIZABETH’S PRISONER.
PRICES: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-
Stalls, 4/-. Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
n/| AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: Amalgamated Pictures Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Frankel and Levey present the New York and London
Success,
THE CHORUS LADY.
MISS VIRGINIA BRISSAC AND COMPLETE
COMPANY OF NEW YORK ARTISTS.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Plan at Allan’s.
OL Y M P I A. O L Y M P I A.
L Y M P I A. MELBOURNE.
(Just across Princes Bridge).
WHERE ARE TO BE SEEN THE UNRIVALLED
SPENCER’S PICTURES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS AT 2.30.
'every NIGHT AT 8.
%A# EST’S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
THE BEST WEST’S PICTURESthE best
OF ALL LIMITED. OF ALL
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8. Matin6es Wednesdays, Saturdays,
and All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be seen
at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every' week.
Prices—6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
PAGES FOR EVERY WOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
Amusements.
BIRCH & CARROLL
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office: ROTHWELL CHAMBERS, BRISBANE.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austra-
lasian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the offices, 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
obnrs'p.
LETTERS COPIED
WHILE WRITING
(IN INK)
by using your own Letter
Paper, Invoices, etc., with this
Copying book. You simnly in-
sert your Letter paper (as
illustrated) then write: and
the act of writing produces a
perfect letter and a perfect
copy in the. book. There is no sign of your having
taken a copy; no perforated edge.
Book N.S/C./200 copies either 200 letters size 10
by 8 in., or 400 size 8 by 5, price 3/9; or Book
N.S.C./400 copies 400 or 800 respectively, price 57-
post free, cash with order. Special Dainty Octavo
Book, making 200 copies, for 3/- P-O’., or double
capacity for 4/3. Sample of the wonderful Zan-
etic Ink Paper, which makes the copy, free, if
stamped, addressed envelope sent to
S B ZANETIC, Welford Rd.. LEICESTER, ENGLAND
For the Country Horseman
The saddle here illustrated is expressly designed
for country use, for stock riding, etc., and is built
of the best materials throughout. If any of our
friends are requiring such a saddle they will find
this a genuine bargain.
It has a hogskin seat, a plated bar-tree, extra
long flaps, with points to buckle below. An economi-
cal feature is the skirt, which extends all round
and thus adds years of wear to the saddle by pro-
tecting its interior from the weather. It has a
deep, “sweepy” seat, 4in. kneepads, nickel-plated
iron stirrups, and double buckle leather girth. The
price complete is £3/15/- Mention of Tub
Bulletin when ordering will ensure your having a
leather surcingle given in free, and the saddle will
be forwarded freight paid. It is to be obtained
from J. P, Talty, 388 Sussex Street, Sydney.
“His Master’s Voice” G ramo-
phones will gladden thousands
of homes at Christmastime.
Why not bring one, with all its glad-
some melody, to cheer the folk in your
own home at Christmas, and during all
the years that follow?
Prices range from £5/12/6 to £6O.
Instrument Catalogue , Record Lists and name of
nearest accredited dealer on request.
SOLE CONCESSIONAIRES FOR
THE GRAMOPHONE CO., LTD.,
163 PITT STREET SYDNEY.
Business Notices.
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE
Made in England. Perfectly
harmless, indeteetable
and guaranteed free
from Nitrate of
Silver and Lead
Salts.
IN VARIOUS
SHADES Raven
Black, Black,
Brown, Light or
Golden Brown
Blonde, Chestnut
and Auburn
Price 3/6, posted 3/11
Directions with everv
bottle.
MADAME LEIGH.
22 & 23 The Block Arcade, Collins St., Melbourne
"Oh! I say!
It’s Good!’’
Cooling, refreshing and ‘snappy
Montserrat
LIME JUICE
is the ideal Summer beverage.
Large supplies have lately
been shipped from London.
MOJTTBEBJIAT is Bold by all leading Storekeepers
ARE YOU FAIR TO YOURSELF?
* A look old, with
those grey and
faded hairs,
always so con-
spicuous. A
bottle of the
world-famed
Lockyer’s
Hair Restorer, 1/6
gives health to the Hair and restores the
natural colour. It cleanses the scalp; is
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
» DON’T LOOK OLD.
rC
V
Experience Proves
the Value of
Solomon
Solution
to Horse Owners.
“Sebastopol. Z
“We have used SOLOMON
SOLUTION for a number of years
for Sore Backs Girth and
Collar Galls—Greasy Heels—
and all kinds of wounds and
sprains in Horses and Cattle
We have great pleasure in re-
commending '.t, as no stable
should be without it.’’
(Signed)
D. Hankahan & Sons,
Dairymen.
Large Jars 5/- from Chemists.
Stores and Saddlers everywhere
or post free for 5/6 from
SOLOMON COX & SON,
439 Bourke St., Melbourne
L.R.W.
PILE PILLS.
PERMANENT CURE.
Established 1891.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS.
Non-aperient. A sure and speedy cure for all
of Internal and External I lies. _. „
Have Cured Thousands of Cases, some aft
over 40 years. „ pwv WOY
Made and sold by ANDREW MU >
WOY (N.S.W.), Sole Proprietor.
PRICE 3/- PER BOX, or a
of 8 BOXES £l, Post Free.
On Sale at all Druggists, Chemists an
keepers throughout the States.


Prevent sKin
Blemishes
:
\<r £
t? .
v r*
j] • A
ii ip
By using
Cuticura Soap
and Ointment
They do so much to promote and
maintain the purity and beauty of
the complexion, hands and hair un-
der all conditions, and are unexcelled
in purity, delicacy and fragrance for
the toilet and nursery.
Cuticura Soap and Ointment are sold throughout
the world. A liberal sample of each, with 32-page
booklet on the care and treatment of the skin and
scalp, sent post-free. Address R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N.S. W.
Clogged-Up Liver
Causes Headache
It’s a foolish proceeding to suffer from
constipation, sick headache, biliousness,
dizziness, indigestion and
kindred ailments when
CARTER’S LITTLE
LIVER PILLS will
end all misery in
a few hours.
Purely vege-
table. Act
gently on
liver and
bowels.
Carters
’ITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
Small Pill, small Dose, Small Price.
The GENUINE must bear signature
AN INTERESTING
EXPERIMENT.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey Hairs
make, just lay a piece of paper over each of the two
halves of the above portrait. The Grey “half” will
then be seen to have the appearance of 45 years of
age, whereas the other half looks only 30. Dr. B.
Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut Stain will make
all those years of difference if you are grey or prema-
turely grey. It is perfectly harmless, easy to apply,
and will quickly restore the Hair to the natural shade
of youth, or younger years.
Dr. B. ALLEN’S <u.s.a.)
Mexican WALNUT STAIN
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suitable
for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or Moustache.
CARBIDE.
For First-Class
Results use
Best
W~“PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it c . a "
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
PAGES FOR EVERY WOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
r
r'
McLaren
Traction Engines
and Tractors.
8 H.P. Traction Engine.
McLaren Steam Tractors & Ploughs
Continue Their Unbeaten Record in 1913.
In the 1913 South African Ploughing Competition, open to all makers
of Steam and Oil Tractors, McLAREN was EASILY FIRST.
In the 1913 Algerian Ploughing Competition, open to all makers of
Steam and Oil Tractors, McLAREN was EASILY FIRST.
These Awards were secured on :
1. Low first cost of plant.
2. Low cost of working.
3. Quality of work done.
4. Quantity of work done in specified time.
Full particulars of Traction Engines for Haulage or Ploughing, or for both,
supplied by Sole Agents for Australia: —
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO. LTD.
535 Kent Street, SYDNEY
480 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
THE
*
£
~r-
-
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
ESTABLISHED 1858.
Capital Paid Up, £1,498,220. Reserve Fund, £465,000.
Reserve Liability of Shareholders, £715,464.
Directors: JOHN GRICE, Esq., EDWARD TRENCHARD, Esq., H. M. STRACHAN, Esq.,
J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq.
Chief Manager: E. H. WREFORD.
HEAD OFFICE, MELBOURNE. SYDNEY OFFICE, 60 PITT STREET.
Branches In Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia, New South Wales.
LONDON OFFICE: 5 Bishopsgate, E.C.
Nothing can surpass
HORROCKSES’
SHEETINGS for
durability
LATEST VICTORY
GRAND PRIZE
BRUSSELS
EXHIBITION. 1910
When Buying see HORROCKSES’ name on
Face-plait, and decline all substitutes.
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and
Storekeepers.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS
PriCM rl
EngrUnS—
-1/I*, 2/9 & 4/b.
Made in England.
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks of
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
'he cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acta Ilka a charm In
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY.
*
iSMOKERS and
NON-SMOKERvS
find Pebeco Tooth Paste the best remedy for any disagree-
able taste. It makes your breath sweet and fragrant and
restores tinted teeth, without injury, to their natural color.
Pebeco is a complete and ideal health course for the mouth
and teeth.
OBTAINABLE ALL CHEMISTS.
Trial Tube of Pebeco, with useful Book and interesting
test, Free for three penny stamps, on application to the
Sole Agent,
G. ARNOLD
(Dept. M), 6 O’Connell Street, Sydney
(WHOLESALE ONLY). [4
Business, Robbery, etc.
“C.C. ’: When a witness before the last N.S.W.
Dairying Commission suggested that the compulsory
testing of dairy cow's should be insisted upon, he was
to:d: “There was no necessity for such, a procedure;
our industry was carried on to-day under very strict
Government supervision and inspection, and the re-
ports of the dairy inspectors were to the effect that
very little tuberculosis existed in the dairy herds of
the State. He did not wonder at this, because the
dairyman of the present day was well educated as to
this disease.” The dairymen may be; but are the
inspectors ? Here’s a case, known to the writer. B,
a dairy inspector, sold a cow to C. C was at first
doubtful about her health ; but upon the inspector
assuring him that the lady was quite well, he took
her. A short time afterwards he sold her to D, a
dairyman in the same district; and upon his next
round the same inspector ordered the lady to be
destroyed. “Bad case of tuberculosis,” was his ver-
dict. He may have been suffering from loss of
memory or the cow may have but lately developed
the trouble. Anyway, D certainly suffered from loss
of money.
“A. 8.”: There is an instrument, article or weapon
which no self-respecting w'harfie is ever without. It
is known as “Riley.” There are different kinds of
“Rileys”-—bamboo, rubber, lead, glass, anything in
the shape of a tube. While the glass has its good
points, it is not popular because of its brittleness.
The rubber “Riley” is the most satisfactory because
of its pliability—it can be “smothered” so quickly
and so snugly. The rubber tubing which is used
on motor-car lamps is admirable, and many a car
lacks the gas tubes after a water trip. The manipu-
lation of “Riley” is simple. After the keg is nicely
stowed away, the high priest gently inserts his hook,
and while a couple of lusty-lunged sons of the
waterside sing to drown the noise, the bung is
knocked in. “Riley” is then brought into action.
Some of the filite are fastidious ami one
for the crowd and one for their private use. I even
struck a silver “Riley” one day in the hold of a coaster.
It came out of a package from Bremen. The package
contained surgical instruments. I was down the No.
4 hatch, of a “black German” one day, when “Riley”
was exceptionaly busy. Presently a “pannikin” boss
came over the hatch and yelled out, “What the
(sanguinary words) are you blones doing down
there ? Is there anybody working at all ?” A bibu-
lous wharfie lurched out into the square of the hatch
and, with a beery grin, answered, “Yes (hie),
‘Riley’ ” !
It is all right to advertise your goods, but there
are better ways of doing it, if you are a jeweller,
than by leaving a lot of gorgeous gauds in a brilli-
antly lighted window after the shop is closed for
the day. A P’ran (Melb.) jeweller found this out
when he returned to his shop at 10 o’clock one
recent evening to shut off the light and place the
brilliants in the safe for the night, someone having
been before him and removed £3OO worth of rings.
The locks and bars were untouched; but in an
18in. brick wall was a hole large enough for any
energetic thief to get through. The visitors left a
clue behind them; but a clue in the hands of a
Melbourne policeman is a poor substitute for £3OO
worth of saleable stock.
“Mr. Oeky”: What is this preference to unionists,
anyway? The attention of the Victorian Cabinet was
lately directed to the dealings of Melbourne paper
merchants with typothetae and non-typothet* master-
printers. The typothetae master-printers are union-
ists who have raised the charges for printing to a
uniform standard, and the paper merchants support
them to the extent of supplying goods at a cheaper
rate to them than to the non-typothetae people, who
are “free”-printers. It is mostly the big printers
who are mixed up in this scheme to get more from
the public. I don’t say that they should not do it,
because the undercutting in the printing trade of
Victoria during recent years was a disgrace and no
good to anybody. What I do say is that the differ-
ence between the preference to unionists shown by
the fat paper merchants, who agree with their Argus
regularly, and the preference to unionists which
makes Joe Cook and his crowd so enraged, is so
small as to be invisible to the naked eye.
O. Neitch, who recently took over an hotel at
Orange (N S.W.), belongs to a family of 27, of whom
19 are still alive. His father, Emanuel Neitch (now
deceased), had a unique record; his first pub license
was issued to him for the Black Dog, on the “Rocks,”
Sydney, as long ago as 1830, and in 1891 he obtained
his 61st. Fifty-seven of them were in respect of a
suburban hotel which is still kept by one of the
family.
“Machete”: The missionary and the Government
official are as great destroyers of vested interests as
the Socialistic Tiger. I once met, in Chad’s Bay, a
famous head-hunting district of Papua, a dignified
and most courteous ex-cannibal upon whom, in spite
of peace and several attractive young wives, a melan-
choly brooded which even gifts of kuku (tobacco)
could not remove. As our acquaintance mellowed—
we were sitting in the smoking-room of the local
Union Club —he confided to me that the country was
going to the Devil. From time immemorial his
family had held the high and honorable office of head-
boilers to the community. All heads collected had to
be prepared and bleached by the Lord High Head-
boiler, and only his hands could prepare it for ex-
hibition as a trophy. The valued perquisites of this
great hereditary office were the brains contained in
the skulls. Since my host had succeeded to the
office the missionary and the Government had between
them destroyed an" ancient and profitable institution,
and in doing so had taken his honor from him.
Nothing is sacred to these wreckers.
“C.J.”: The carefullest firm in Australia? Cer-
tainly. Its sign hangs out in a hamlet hot very
far from Ballgrat. There was to be a big excursion
of the villagers to Ballarat Gardens on the Saturday,
and the business houses had agreed not to open in the
morning. That is, they all did with the exception
of the local Anthony Hordern. This crowd finally
agreed to close on the Saturday morning, on condi-
tion that the excursion train did not reach Ballarat
until it was too late for the excursionists to do any
shopping there.
The dreadfulness of the uncertain. At the annual
meeting in London of the Booksellers’ Provident
Society, Herbert Jenkins, publisher, told a story of
an educated Jap who applied for a billet as clerk.
As a test, he was told to write politely, but
firmly, to 20 of the firm’s most long-winded debtors.
He did. By return post, 20 cheques! Then his
method was inquired into. He had simply written
to them all: —“Your Honorable account. We have
carefully regarded the case, and are pained to inform
you that, unless you send us a remittance by return,
we shall have to take a course of action that will
cause you the utmost astonishment.”
POOR RELATIONS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
W hen I have half an hour to spare
I go and visit at the Zoo,
And watch the many monkeys there
And marvel at the things they do.
W ith apes on their ancestral trees,
I feel entirely at my ease.
I find the grim gorilla fine,
And like the mandrill on his bar :
If these relations are of mine,
As Darwin has implied, they are
The only poor ones, truth to tell,
That I get on with very well.
But Darwin must have made a slip.
One trait they have has wiped away
All dread of poor relationship ;
I stand and watch them half a day,
And not a monkey have I known
To try and touch me for a loan !
VICTORIA.
Y.Z.


of Quality
and Stability.
: YS
ISAAC HOLLIS 8 SONS’ “ THE RELIABLE ” D.8.8.L. Gun,
12-gauge, top lever, bar action, 30in. real twist or steel
barrels, Greener cross bolt, both choke, rebounding locks,
snap fore-end, chambered for 2fin. cartridges, weight from 7ilb. to 741 b. Guaranteed
for all Smokeless Powders, half-pistol £ r £6 12s . 6d
m
mm
! : i! iTi
, SB
C. H. Crawford’s D.8.8.L. Gun,
12- or 16-gauge, top lever, double bolt, 30in. barrels,
left choke, pistol grip, walnut stock, scroll engraved, bar locks, nitro proof, weight
of 12-gauge, about 7ilb. ; of 16-gauge, about 6ilb. ; jm
Greener cross-bolt. DELIVERED, 12Sm %^Ctm
GUN REPAIRS
a Speciality.
All kinds of Gun
Parts in stock.
Send for our Price List of
Guns, Rifles and Ammunition.
Post Free Anywhere.
“The Continental " D.8.8.L. EJECTOR Gun,
12- or 16-gauge, top lever, 30-inch Siemen’s steel barrels, both.choke,
Greener cross bolt, rebounding bar locks, extension rib, pistol walnut
stock, snap fore-end ; weight—l2-gauge, about 71b.; 16-gauge, about Delivered, £3jlsj"
DOMOULINS’ D.8.8.L. GUN,
12-gauge, top lever, 30in. real twist barrels,
choke, side clips, square Greener cross bolt,
highly engraved, pistol grip, walnut stock,
weight about 71b., patent fore-end. POST FREE,
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
The BEST HOUSE for all SHOOTING REQUISITES,
Head Depot: Haymarket, Sydney, N.S.W.
Branches:
City, Suburbs & Newcastle.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dog's Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated 'Waters and Cordials.
Will Andrade « BOOKS.
Any of these Catalogues
Free for the asking :
(1) Plays, Recitations.
(2) Magical Goods.
(3) Useful Books.
(4) Building Books.
(5) Mechanical and
Engineering Books.
(6) Medical Books.
(7) Socialistic Books.
(8) Sixpenny Novels.
(9) Australian Books.
(10) Athletic Books.
(11) Wigs, Beards,
Grease Paints,
Masks.
Easy Method of Learning French, German,
Italian, Spanish, 1/7 each language; Speeches and
Toasts for all occasions, 1/1; Every Man His Own
Carpenter, 1/1; Bernard Macfadden’s Building of
Vital Power, 5/4; Macfadden’s Superb Virility of
Manhood, 5/4; Macfadden’s Sweethearts for Lives,
5/4; Amateur Conjuring Book, easy tricks, illus-
trated, 7d.; Boxing and Self-Defence, 1/2; Book
of Love Letters, 1/-; Hypnotism, Mesmerism and
Clairvoyance, 1/1; Horse Doctor, 1/1 ; What Young
People Should Know, Confidential Talks, 1/1 ; Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book of Nature, the only
genuine and complete edition, 3/6; New 1912
edition, enlarged, 32 extra plates, illustrating
female anatomy, handsome cloth cover, 5/-; N' \v
Tricks with Cards, 1/-; House Painting, Paper-
hanging, Whitewashing, etc.. 1/4; 3000 Priceless
Secrets, 1/8; Irish Jokes and Witty Sayings, 9d. ;
Complete Letter Writer for Ladies and Gentlemen,
1/- ; Dancing Without an Instructor, 1/- ; Lovers’
Guide to Courtship and Marriage, 1/-
WG-AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
Ml ASKS
For Fancy Dress
Halls, Skating
Carnivals, Pro-
cessions, etc.
Large Variety.
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
2] FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
PUMPS WATER
DAY AND NIGHT
AUTOMATICALLY.
GET OUR FREE TRIAL
OFFER.
Low in first cost, easy to instal, no expense to operate, any
capacity desired for Country Homes, Farms, Dairies,
Gardens, Irrigation, Town Plants, Railroad Tanks, etc.
RIFE HYDRAULIC RAMS
RAISE WATER 30 FEET for EVERY FOOT OF FALL
Satisfaction Guaranteed. Over 7000 In use.
If there is a stream, spring or pond within a mile—
WRITE FOR FREE PLANS and BOOK.
2613 Trinity Bldg. RIFE ENGINE CO. New York.
Farquhar’s Agricultural Machines
bjum&msi ss^Sl
We manufacture Steam Engines ami
Boilers, Gasoline Engines, Steam and Gasoline
Traction Engines, Threshers, Saw Mills, Horse
Powers, Plows, Harrows, Cultivators, Corn
Shellers, Corn Mills, Grain Drills, Corn
Planters, Cotton Planters, Potato Diggers,
Store Trucks, etc.
Also, Hydraulic Presses for Cider, Wine, V eneer, etc.
have been recognised as leaders of
quality for more than fifty years because
they excel in strength and efficiency.
Therefore they are noted all over the
world for their reliability.
Write for Free Illustrated Catalogues.
Correspondence in all Modern Languages.
Cable Address: “FENANKLE,” New York.
A. B. FARQUHAR & CO.,
Cotton Exchange Building)
NEW YORK, U.S.A.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OP NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1913 edition, 2s 6d posted. Mkriiir
England, (id. How to Gut Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
TINES SII.KNT PIUKND, Is 6d. NED DONNELLY’S AltT
ok Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating tub
Horsk, Is. Ventriloquism Madk East, Is. Up-to-
Datk Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
tub Memory, Is Id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle ok the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Games,
Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple testsior minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book op Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
ok Paris, Is 6d. History ok the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatcn-
fnrd), 9d. The Art ok Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train fop. all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets. Jams and Syrups. Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is 6d.
f
£$
B
1
II
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
■MBRACIHS
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FliOM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in piain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young: and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting' their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Centurv edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH. -ms
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS-LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano. Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyles
Card Games (Rules for a'l Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. The White Slave Traeeic, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter. Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator., Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Gd.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster
Is posted Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
tiie Score, & Other Verses, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptamf.ron, and many
oth'-rs, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes. 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in M klbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. SWEstablished 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my....
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
Ilow to Maks Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. Nsw Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. l)it. Milford's Mid-
wife's Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, ~s «a.
Aristotle, 3/6. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems, complete,
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions ok tub
King, Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. secret
History Court ok England, Is 3d post.
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is - ■
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to a
Decrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, Sd posted. Tokology, 7s fid post
Ingkrsoll’s Works, Sd, 2s. How to Head Hea
(Jas. Coates), Is Sd posted. Ciievassk’s Advick ™*
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget boxe
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post ire .
Bennarr Macfadden's Works, all at 5s posieo.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbo ,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. MW"
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster's Large
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 lllus., le. -
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why par 3 atm
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is -d.
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore s Lmv ■
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 °
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyanck,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music cot
plete), Is 6d posted The Age of Reason by «■
posted. Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-1M


Hear what Miss Grace Rothert
say, of REXONA.
*s ■
j
/ /
A
UISS QUACK ROTIIEIiT (from, a photo.).
MISS GRACE ROTHERT, of Cooke
and Rothert, who is now appearing
at the Opera House, Melbourne, is one
of the world’s most noted acrobatic
dancers. The words of praise volun-
teered by such a well-known artiste
as Miss Rothert carry great weight,
and should be of interest to all.
12th November, 1913.
Rexona Proprietary Company,
15 O’Connell Street, Sydney,
Dear Sirs,
I do want to tell you how fine
your Rexona Ointment is. I have
travelled all over the world and
never have I come across anything
like it. It was in South Africa that
I first heard of it, when Master How-
ard had a nasty accident on the stage
injuring his face terribly. The poor
boy was suffering intensely and we
did not know what to do until we
were recommended by the Stage
Manager to use Rexona. We did;
and it was marvellous how soon he
was right again. Since then I have
never travelled without a pot of
Rexona Ointment, and I use it not
only as healer, but as an embroca-
tion, for it is a magical reviver to
strained muscles.
As for Rexona Skin and Facial
Soap, I use it every day—not only
to wash with, but for the hair—and
think it fine.
Sincerely Yours,
(Sgd.) GRACE ROTHERT.
Ihere are so many uses for Rexona that a pot of this New Rapid-Healing
Ointment should be ketft in every home. One day it may be useful to cure the bites
ot insects, another day to heal the cuts, bruises or scalds which are for ever
occurring in everyday life. Again, for the more serious complaints, such as Eczema,
Kingworms, and the various forms of Skin Diseases Rexona is a tried and proved
remedy.
Rexona is a Reliable Remedy for all Eruptions and Irritations of the Skin,
Eczema, I imples, Sores, Chilblains, Chapped Hands, Sciatica, Cuts, Burns Bruises
Scalds, Bad Legs, Stings of Insects, and all kinds of Inflammation. Rexona is sold
only in triangular pots, at 1/6, and in larger pots, containing nearly four times the
quantity, at 3/- All Chemists and Stores will supply it, or it will be sent post free
upon receipt of the price, upon application to Box 974, G.P.0., Sydney.
o
o
0
THE RAPID HEALER
ONTNENOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred of "Hop’s” best drawings. Full
Bulletin size. Price, 21s.
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co, Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HOLLOWAY’S
Pills <a Ointment
A TRIAL of HOLLOWAY'S PILLS has meant
The Dawning' •/ * Brig'hter Day
to many a sufferer from liver, kidney and stomach
troubles* For over three-score years and ten they
have been supreme in all cases of biliousness,
headache, indigestion, depression and other com-
plaints which usually arise from constipation*
You should also use HOLLOWAY'S OINT-
MENT, which possesses remarkable healing
virtues in cases of skin affections and sores,
rheumatism, lumbago, sciatica, etc. See to
it that you always have a box and pot handy.
To be obtained from all Chemists, Stores,
etc.
Manufactured only at
113 SOUTHWARK ST. (late 78 New Oxford St.), LONDON, S.E.
Elder Man’s Lane.
THE DOWNFALL OF LITTLE WILLIE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I HAVE hinted at “Little Willie” in
another sketch. He wasn’t Tattle
Willie at all, but his mother always
called him that from the first. He was taller
than the other youngsters of Kid Terrace
and their mates, and older. He was big-
legged, narrow-shouldered and sloping from
the hips upwards, like some old laboring
men. But labor never threatened to be his
vice, though a most precocious cunning in
the pretence of always doing something
useful or being about to do it —was en-
giained in his nature. He was freckled and
sandy, and his eyes were small and reddish,
and close together, and his features were
screwed up with meanness and malicious-
ness. You see, he was a type. Naturally
vicious from the cradle. He always made
his appearance as if he didn’t intend to
make it; as if he were pursued by some
spirit of evil; and evil always followed, in
a small mean way, in Little Willie’s foot-
steps. He always walked in the manner of
something that was hunted, and yet hunting
something much smaller nnd weaker than it-
self—sidling round, warily, in circumambula-
tory directions, with the object of his sense-
less cruelty (a kitten, maybe) or unreason-
ing vindictiveness in the foreground. He
moved as if he were walking on dry grass
amongst a lot of dead burrs. In the matter
of stoning helpless and useful things, when
he thought it was perfectly safe, he was De-
puty, right out of “Edwin I)rood.” Dickens
plainly intended to make Deputy a decent
character, and an instrument in the hands
of Justice; but no living writer could have
made Little Willie anything except just
what he was. All that was good and re-
spectable and meritorious seemed evil to
him. He was a small edition of the “Ugly
Story” personified—The Ugly Story, sired
by Envy and darned by Uncharitableness —-
and fostered by the love of Sensationalism
that always gets whispered round, and
blazoned on the posters of the cheap press,
and hinted, in a cowardly manner, in the
columns thereof. Besides such senseless
annoyances as periodically spilling such of
the neighbors’ morning milk as he couldn’t
drink, and removing and destroying loaves
left by the baker, his chief amusements con-
sisted in knocking at doors, throwing stones
at cats and fowls, and on roofs, mimicking
the crippled and afflicted—and joining the
jim-jams in league against any stray and
harmless drunk that might be delivered into
his hands. There was not the slightest hint,
in the least harmful of that young fiend’s
monkey tricks, of the honest, rollicking,
good-humored and whole-hearted pranks of
that young rascal, “You Charley,” or his
brother, "That there Jimmy o’ mine”; and
how Little Willie came to be Ueorgie’s
brother, I don’t know. I don’t believe he
was. Perhaps he was only an adopted
brother—adopted by the parents in prema-
ture despair of there ever going to be a
Georgie. Strange how often, when a mar-
ried couple give it up, and adopt a child, the
real one hurries along; but the real one, as
often as not, turns out to be the devil of the
two.
It was during the Christmas holidays, and
Georgie, Charlie Stinker and Bugs had
gone out camping, after the independent
manner of young Australians, with their
swags and fishing tackle. Charlie, by the
way, used to take his father with him for a
few days; Dad being a good fisherman and
camp cook, and also handy for cricket when
they were tired of fishing and short-handed
in the field. _ Little Willie was left behind
because of his qualities, and maybe his sul-
len preference. Jimmy stayed to look after
mother. Mothers don’t get many holidays
in our streets; and, when they do, they
don t enjoy them—they’re always on the
ndget to get back to what they call “home”
mi l ' f e ar that something may be going wrong.
I hey always feel quite certain that some-
thing is going wrong—if it is only a window
allegedly left unfastened, or with the moult-
ing rooster and three dusty draggled hens,
left to the care of a neighbor.
But, during the boys’ absence, the neigh-
bors suffered annoyances and torment to the
limit from the unnatural vindictiveness and
nendishness of Little Willie. He seemed to
have me set, especially, though I had never
spoken to him, and had always taken care
to appear blissfully unaware of his very ex-
istence. Perhaps, with the unerring instinct
of his type, he had read disgust and con-
tempt in my manner. Suffice it that he
seemed to take the keenest enjoyment in
stealing a reel of cotton from his mother,
tying one end of the cotton to the door and
unwinding down to the cover of some bushes
on a steep, triangular rocky piece of vacant
ground opposite—from which he would pull
double knocks. He could keenly enjoy this
sort of thing strictly on his own—without
a boy audience, I mean. Add to this, he
aggravated matters by expressing, in pass-
lng, in every clumsy skip and movement, in
every screwing up of his narrow shoulders
in simulated silent laughter, and in every
sidelong evil grin, his exquisite enjoyment
of the situation. The police say, in such
circumstances, that the only thing that might
be done was to get hold of the boy and give
mm a good fright. But there was no
catching Little Willie, and Jimmy—our
only possible champion—was no match for
him. It was beyond the limit of human en-
durance, so, in despair, I laid the whole case
before Charlie, when the boys came back. I
had too much respect for the feelings of
Georgie—with whom his brother was a sore
subject—besides I’d a delicacy in talking to
one brother about another.
Charlie thought, and consulted the nape
of his neck with his little finger, and scraped
wisdom out of the dust with his toe.
. “Does he knock at their doors over there
m—in watyer call Skull Terrace?” he asked
at last.
“Yes,” I said.
At the middle ’un?” he asked again;
does he knock at their door?”
"At all the doors,” I answered.
Charlie thought some more. “All light,”
he said decisively. “We’ll fix him. I’m
thinkin’ it out.”
I’ve described Skull Terrace in another
sketch—a mean little row of five two-
storeyed houses, so called from the peculiar
formation of its doors and windows and the
general ghastliness of its dead-flat front in
the light of after-sunset from full over
Berry’s Kay.
Skull Terrace is furtively and tempor-
arily tenanted by sketches, shadows and
outlines, who seem to appear (that ex-
presses it) always on Saturday mornings,
and put up apologies for blinds and curtains,
in the lower windows at least; and appar-
ently (or not apparently) go to bed in the
dark. Ive never seen any furniture go in,
mu P erll hPs some came in the night before.
Ihey depart, or rather vanish, or fade
away, mostly on Saturday mornings, too.
1 ve never seen any furniture come out; but
perhaps some came out the night before,
also. But I’ve seen bundles of what looked
like bedding dropped from upper windows,
and mysteriously removed in bottle-o-looking
carts, together with a box of tinware and
rubbish and some pots and pans, and a hag
following with a clock and the looking-glass,
ihe blmds mostly remained up; and on
Monday morning the rent-collector would
come round, knock, knock again, inquire
next door, and depart—apparently unmoved.
But the new tenants in the middle house
to which Charlie referred, seemed in a bet-
ter case. Anyway, they sent in some furni-
ture which, if light, was new—perhaps it
was hired. It was. mainly of the spring
stretcher complexion. You know house
rents are very high, and houses hard to get
over here. I caught several glimpses of a
smallish woman, apparentlv young and
pretty, m a kimono; or it might have been a
different one each time —the girl and not
the kimono; two or three of them. Also,
one or two hefty-looking, clean-shaven,
youngish fellows, seemed to go there, or
come away from there, casual-like. There
was also a big, fat, old woman who answered
knocks in a very leisurely manner, inter-
viewed tradesmen, and seemed to run the
house generally. I formed my own opinions,
and my own opinions were totally wrong, as
usual. Most opinions that you form are
wrong.
Running up at the end of our terrace, and
communicating with our little back lane,
and extending round a little paddock at
the back, where are some tiny cottages in
greenery, is a ten-foot lane called Isabel
Avenue; and there were new tenants also
in one of those cottages; and at least one of
the new tenants in Skull Terrace was ac-
quainted with them, for a trim little figure
in black tripped up across the green occa-
sionally, about dusk, and entered Isabel
Avenue. This acquaintanceship came in
handy later on. Make a note of it.
Charlie’s acquaintance with men and mat-
ters on the Point was extensive —and pecu-
liar. It ranged from Sin Quick, mildest of
vegetable Chinamen, to our Liberal member,
.therefore, very early in the morning after
our interview, I was not surprised to see
him’ with, his go-cart, outside the window
of the Middle House, and in apparently
close and earnest conversation with some-
body in pyjamas, who had raised the sash.
I thought perhaps Charlie was on business,
but I had only time to be vaguely puzzled
at the hour he chose, when the window and
blind were drawn down, the door opened,
and a hand and wrist beckoned Charlie in—
and nothing remained but his truck. I meant
to tell you that Little Willie had paid par-
ticular attention to this house during the
holidays, if only for the pleasure of catch
a glimpse, from a safe distance, of a very
white, kimonoed (or rather tmkimonoed)
arm, and a pretty but scared face. He used
to watch the men folk out, I suppose, and I
always ached to wring his scraggy young
neck. That evening Charlie had an inter-
view with some of his friends down under
the rock on the green. I noticed that neither
Little Willie nor his brother was present
at the conference.
Next afternoon was on a dull, dead,
smothering, smoke-cloudy Saturday. The
shops were closed on account of the Act.
The trams were held up on account of an
explosion in the power-house. The Shore
was apparently depopulated, and the last
policeman seemingly dead and buried. Once
again Charlie and his friends foregathered.
This time Little Willie was present. Georgie
had taken his mother and a little sister to
Manly; so Little Willie had the house to
himself._ Charlie gave quick and explicit
instructions, and each man his allotted posi-
tion. Then they dived down into the road
as one, in extended order, and across to
Skull Terrace, where each stood by a door.
Little Willie had the door of Middle House ;
Charlie the door of the upper end house;
Jimmy the lowest door in the terrace; and
Stinker and Bugs the doors in between.
Then Charlie, seeing that the firing-line was
in position and ready, reached up for the
knocker and gave a great double knock ; and
almost simultaneously with his second
knock, they all knocked hard —and scooted.
They slithered right and left, and round
into a lane at the lower end of the terrace,
and dived down under the rails of a vacant
lot at the upper end ; and scattered in all
directions. Little Willie had the longest
run, but his legs were the only good things
about him —and there was nlenty of time.
Seconds passed—a whole minute—then
two. Then there was a sinister movement
of the blind in the top window of the upper
end house, the sash was slowly raised, and
a furtive male in short sleeves laid first one,
and then the other arm carefully on the sill,
projected head and shoulders cautiously and
glowered up and down the narrow pave-
ment, the dirty green blind hanging down
behind him. In somewhat similar wise an-
other window opened at the lower end, and
a h Ssr??, ad appeared. Likewise, next door
to Middle House opened gingerly; then
wider, and another hag bent outwards hug-
ging her flat breast with skinny, tightly-
folded arms, screwing chin and nose to-
gether, and turning her head on a long
scraggy neck, iguana-like, up and down the
street. Then other doors and windows.
They wanted to see if it was the rent-collec-
tor, perhaps, or maybe the police—or a pre-
vious landlord, time-payment man, or other
creditor that had got on their track. Then
the worms and maggots withdrew into their
(Continued on next page.)


HOLIDAY MISHAPS
TAKE ZAM-BUK WITH YOU.
It isn’t wise to go away for a holiday without a pot of
Zam-Buk.
Many a mishap might mar your enjoyment without Zam-
Buk, whereas with this pure first-aid you can obtain speedy
relief from smarting pain, and ward off poisoning.
Sore faces, sore feet, sunburnt skins and rough hands are
sure to be prevalent, too, and anointing with Zam-Buk
should be a nightly measure with all who value comfort and
a clear, healthy skin. Zam-Buk is wonderfully soothing for
sore, aching or tender feet, and invaluable for mosquito
bites and insect stings.
Zam-Buk is a healing, soothing, antiseptic and germicidal
skin-dressing, neatly packed and ready for use, and as
handy as it is reliable.
For All SUMMER SKIN TROUBLES
Zam-Buk relieves all
those nasty skin troubles
so prevalent in Summer,
such as Pimples, Boils,
Irritation, Rashes and
other eruptions; and is
excellent for Guts,
Bruises, Burns, Scalds,
Ringworm, Barber’s
Rash, and injured
or unhealthy con-
ditions of the
skin. Obtainable
from all chemists
and stores at 1/6
per pot, or 3/6
famiiy size (hold-
ing nearly four
times the 1/6).
am
"SOOTHES AND HEALS."
Chamberlain’s
Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy.
This is the best medicine procurable for bowel complaint in all its forms. It
relieves pain in the stomach, dysentery, diarrhoea and colic. It has been the means
of saving more pain and suffering than any other known remedy. Thousands of
mothers in all parts of the world have given it to their children and now sing its
praises. This medicine is especially valuable in checking Diarrhoea which nearly
always attacks the babies when teething. One dose will relieve pains in the stomach
and it seldom takes more than three or four doses to stop a severe attack of Diarrhoea.
Always take Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy at the first unusual
looseness of the bowels. There is no class of ailments that attack the system quicker
than bowel complaints and when a medicine is wanted it is wanted quickly. What
has made Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy so popular is that the relief
is just as quick.- It is a medicine that should be kept in the home at all times and we
advise you to procure a bottle at once, for it will save trouble later on and perhaps be
the means of saving a life.
me
WHOLE-
BODV
LAUGHS
m
(v.
t
>5
y
When the liver and bowels do not act Inc
is a failure. Chamberlain's Tablets wake
these drowsy organs like the sun wakes
the earth and the whole body laughs. There
is more happiness in an eighteenpenny
box of Chamberlam’s *Tablets than you
ever dreamed of.
skull, doors and windows closed, and all was
blank.
A quarter of an hour passed, twenty
minutes, half an hour. Then the boys turned
up singly and in quick succession from all
directions, except across the green. Lastly,
Little Willie, from some safe hole known to
himself, his whole body writhing in impish,
malicious enjoyment. They gathered safe
handy to the lower end of our Isabel Avenue.
A short conference, and they separated into
two detachments, up and down our street
and round down into the road again. I was
down on the front verandah this time, and,
as Charlie passed, he took his opportunity
to whisper hoarsely —-
“Now watch! Mr. Lawrence! Go up
inter yer balkenny en’ watch.” I went up.
They gathered opposite the ends of Skull
Terrace, or a little higher up and lower-
down. Then they darted across, extending
in open order as they ran ; and, with military
precision, ranged themselves alongside their
respective doors. Little Willie was to give
the signal knock this time. He wanted to,
because he had a shrewd suspicion that at
least one of the young men was at home.
He had furthest to run and wanted more
time. He claimed it as his right, as Charlie
told me afterwards, so they gave it to him.
He peered up and down the firing line to
see if all were in position and ready, and, as
one man, they raised their hands to their
respective knockers. But none of them
knocked. Neither did Little Willie. Just
as he grabbed his knocker, that door was
snatched open. It hadn’t been on the latch !
And Little Willie went in with it. There
was a fearsome moment, and Little Willie
shot out onto the pavement, and landed on
his back, curled up like a hard kicked cur.
Then, from that doorway swooped Good
Mrs. Brown. Yes, Good Mrs. Brown —
straight out of Dickens’s “Dombey & Son”
-—beak, claws and all. She looked a fear-
some bag. She swooped on Little Willie
before Little Willie had time to recover him-
self and regain his feet. And Little Willie
played the part of “Biler” to perfection.
He held up his arms to shield his head and
face, while she clawed and tore at him ; and
even I heard her screech. She took her
claws ou.t of him for one moment, and he sat
up and glared at her in helpless, speechless,
paralysed terror. He was trying to edge off
on his hands and heels, when out from that
doorway bundled the First Witch from
“Macbeth” —none other. She had a kero-
sene bucket full of soapsuds. She was a
wiry witch. With a sloosh! she washed
Little Willie off the narrow pavement into
the gutter. Then in that fateful doorway
appeared Satan’s own Mother-in-Law with
another bucket of dirty water. The First
Witch seized it and slooshed Little Willie
some distance down the gutter. Then she
pounced on him again, got her talons in his
collar, wrenched him to his feet facing the
house, clawed his chin and hooked his face
upwards and battered him generally. Then
one of the top windows went up with a
bang, and Bill Sikes himself, in shirt sleeves,
thrust out his head and shoulders. Or was
it Gabbet? I couldn’t be sure at that dis-
tance.
“’OLD ’IM!” he boomed. “’OLD IM,
TILL —I GIT ME TROWSIS ON!”
That was the stimulant! There was no
holding Little Willie then. He broke from
the hag, and his legs ran away with him
like those of a champion cyclist, training
hard. It was all so quick that I couldn’t
be sure which way he went.
I was dazedly wondering whether it was
all a dream —or whether the new tenants
had really vanished after the manner of
others, and newer ones had taken their place
in like manner.
A mighty pall of rain cloud had swooped
over, the flood came down and ceased, the
gutters emptied and the street was fresh
and clean and cool, a clear arch rose over
sunset, the doors and windows of Skull
Terrace were closed, the front of Skull
Terrace was blanker and ghastlier in the
after-glare than ever.
A drenched and draggled something came
sidling fearfully up our street, keeping close
to the walls, and slipped into the house of
Little Willie’s parents. It was Little Willie
himself, and Little Willie’s people were not
home from Manly yet. Two strange, over-
coated, macintoshed and slouch-hatted
figures came out of the shadows from some-
where and slipped into Isabella Terrace.
And they had scarcely vanished when round
the corner, out of the lane, slouched Bill
Sikes and Gabbet, both —their own selves.
They lifted the latch of the little gate and
knocked at Little Willie’s door. I suppose
it was opened. / heard it bang. Messrs.
Sikes and Gabbet came out again. Their
backs were to me and their shoulders were
jerking suspiciously. They went round into
the lane again. I went to my back window
to see what might be going on out there.
Outside Little Willie’s back gate I saw
Good Mrs. Brown crouching, her witch chin
fitted between two of the pickets, her evil
eyes peering from each side of her beak nose
into Little Willie’s yard. She seemed to be
waiting and watching for something.
Up that yard I saw Little Willie come
creeping. He was going to bolt. He kept
well under cover of a small wooden erection
at the top of the yard, until lie reached it.
Then he broke cover, made for the gate, and
was confronted by the Visitation ! With a
yelp he fled inside, and the back door banged.
Another second and he burst out at the
front and ran right into Gabbet.
I dropped into the School of Arts that
night to see a variety performance, and was
£o see my friends, Charlie, Jimmy,
Stinker and likewise Bugs, in the best seats.
And next morning Little Willie was gone
-—bolted, cleared out, run away, to the great
grief and consternation of his mother. But
late that evening I saw his father sitting
on the balcony, chair well tilted back and
heels on the rail, contemplatively smoking
the pipe of peace and contentment, and by
these tokens I concluded that all was well —
Little Willie hadn’t returned. He fled to
an uncle who had a small farm near Gos-
ford, and that uncle wired down next day
that Little Willie was there, and that he
was either going to make a man or a cripple
of him.
And verily, my friends, I wrote all that
Sunday night, and looking forth from the
balcony early on Monday morning. I saw
Charlie delivering a truck-load of kindling
wood to a face and a big suit of pyjamas
in the lower window of Middle House, Skull
Terrace, And when Charlie was turning
away, he seemed by his gestures to refuse
money.
“Yes,” said Charlie, some time after
they’d gone, “Those tenants was that
Variety actor company. They travelled all
over the suburbs an’ to Manly ’n’ Parra-
matta. They was saving up to go hong
tore, so one of the jokers called it; an’ it
wouldn’t run to hotels en boardin’ houses.
The big, old woman does the cookin’ an’
cleanin’. She’s the mother of them —at least,
she’s the mother of most of them. She
owns the ferniclier. The other women all
call tlieirselves ‘misses,’ but they’re all
married to each other. So that’s all right.”
HENRY LAWSON.
Remarks on the Present State
of Peru.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ON the fringe of the meadows of ages.
Aglow with pale blossoms of deed
That ripple and turn like the pages
The slow worm at midnight may read,
I saw a tall gentleman filling
His pipe, while the sunset aflood
O’er the mountain of evening was spilling
A flame-hearted glory of blood.
Though all unexpected our meeting,
llis face and his bearing were known;
As friends of the past was our greeting,
I clasped his brown hand in my own —
Old comrades in ventures afar —oh,
The glance of those hawk eyes I knew,
For the form was the form of Pizarro
And the bond of our souls was Peru.
The winds of the dark in their motion
Strange dreams to our pillows had blown,
The whispers of forest and ocean
Breathed low in our hearing alone
Of mountain peaks rent with the thunder
Where death had been king from of old,
And palaces shrouded in wonder •
Aflame with their hangings of gold.
Pizarro ! The doom and the splendor
Blent still in his terrible name.
Shall kings in their battle strength render
Account of their glory and shame?
Oh, heavy the hand of our smiting
And bitter the fame that we won ;
Hot blood was the ink of our writing—-
The blood of the Child of the Sun.
The hero seemed joyed at our meeting,
I saw the dark smile in his eyes.
“What! Senor de Moses ! Fair greeting !
Well, .this is a pleasant surprise.”
I remarked, “Is there anything doing?”
My fancy was spreading her wings.
I admit I had visions of strewing
Hyde Park with some corpses and things.
He laughed in his beard and made answer.
“There is gold for the winning,” he cried,
“’Tis a job for a resolute man, sir,
Who has little regard for his hide.
I have seen in one window aglitter,
All polished and shining and new,
Such wealth as we won in the bitter
Brief conquest of sunny Peru.
“The plates are a trifle more slender,
The weight is perhaps somewhat less,
But the feelings the baubles engender
Are like the young south wind’s caress.
There are diamonds sleeping on velvet,
And jewels of ruby and pearl,
And the bright golden stuff as they shelve it
Is fit for a monarch’s best girl.
“Some resolute persons by smiting
The heads from a dozen police,
Without any serious fighting
Might bear off five bushels apiece
As easy as gathering roses;
Our friend William Sikes will assist
And I fancy that you, Senor Moses,
In a hazard like this might enlist.”
I smiled at the hero’s suggestion.
“Not so, sir, may fortune be won.
Beyond all debating or question
The thing you propose could be done,
But the prospect of speedily hanging
At the end of a long piece of thread
We associate now with the banging
Of kindly police on the head.
“And a thing that our spirit embitters,
The copy-books taught us to write,
For all is not gold though it glitters
In the jewellers’ windows at night;
But if you have thought of adventures
In places far distant and new,
By issuing shares or debentures
Some bunches of gold might accrue.
“We cannot send folk to perdition
By using a sword or a knife ;
Our exploits we conduct on commission
When leading the strenuous life;
Our Peruvian wealth is on paper,^
And the Incas whose homes we traspoi)
Are the butcher and grocer and draper,
And persons attached to the soil.”
The last ray of red was departing;
The purple hindquarters of day
From the wind-whip of evening were smart-
ing
As the chariot of light rolled away ;
The pipe that the hero was smoking
Had burned to the last flake of ash,
As in doubt our high spirits stood yoking
Their waggon of fancy to cash.
Bright casli that the world .wheels were
spinning,
To weave on the looms of delight,
The hard, simple stuff was worth winning,
But no Inca throne was in sight.
For the world since our days of adventure
Is a dull, prosy place where at best
By striving and toil you may rent your
Allotment and pay like the rest.
We passed from that meadow in sorrow,
We went with a sigh and a tear
Some trace of old gladness to borrow
From young and regenerate beer.
Twin mugs that were bearded and gleaming
We drained till there splashed on our view
An aureate ocean outstreaming
From a drunk and disordered Peru.
N.S.W.
CURSE O' MOSES.


WESTINGHOUSE
(MORSE)
CHAIN DRIVES.
m
iiate
Jy
wm
The resistance due to the sliding
"friction at the joint, inseparable
from chains of the solid joint pin
type, is eliminated, and the fullest
advantage is taken of the power
developed by the Motor by
utilising the patent
ROCKER JOINT.
98 per cent. Efficiency.
Made in units from l to 1000 h.p.
Full Particulars from
Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Queensland Agents—Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
New Zealand Agents—Philips & Pike, Wellington.
,N.S. WALES.
00 LINES FOR STEAM USERS
RE.C! STEREO
NOT a Boiler Fluid, but a Preparation containing Pure Carbon to be applied
to the internal surfaces of boilers like a paint. Absolutely prevents pitting and
corrosion and the deposit of hard scale* Used regularly by the New South
Wales Government Railways and Tramways, Sydney Municipal Council, and
many of the Largest Steam Users in Australia.
AULD’S REDUCING VALVES.
The World's Standard Reducing Valve for Steam, Air or Water. Simple and
Reliable. Hundreds in use in Australia. We carry heavy stocks of all sizes.
ALSO AGENTS FOR-
Engelbert’s Famous Oils, Nichols’ Boiler Feed Pumps,
Stirling Water Tube Boilers, etc., etc.
The Aistral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Metz-“22,” £l9O
The Simple Car for the Country.
These Serviceable Cars are at Work all over N.S.W.
If you require a Simple, Economical, Reliable and Moderately-priced Car it will
pay you to investigate the METZ. Friction Drive (eliminating complicated
gear wheels), 22 H.P., 4 cyl. Bosch Ignition, clearance, 45m. p. hour,
33m. p. gallon.
Brown & Hellicar Ltd.,
375 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
The
British-built
Waver ley, £350.
Indian Motocycles,
GOLDFIELDS DIAMOND DRILLING CO.Pty.Ltd.
331 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Works-Sturt St, South Melbourne.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Armstrong: Traction Well-Boring Machine
MOVES WITHOUT HORSES
RUMELY KEROSENE
OIL TRACTORS.
ALL-STEEL BORING PLANTS,
TOOLS AND CASING.
Gasoline and Kerosene Engines,
Pumps, Windmills, Silos, Hay
Presses, Wagons, etc., etc.
ASTHMA CURE
SRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Diffientty In expectoration. Asthma, NervousC'onghs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immedintely
WjjeWd by GRIMAUET & Co's INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Sold by all Chemists.
re:
2
FOR WOUNDS, CUTS AND SORES'
Just wash the part clean, rub in a little
WILKINSON’S
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT
and you’ll have the skin healed and healthy
quicker than with any other ointment on earth.
Everyone says so who has used it. Write for a
tin now. 1/6. posted 1/9.
J. WILKINSON, Chemist.
2] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane!
THE LONE HAND
A Monthly Guide for
AFPIEND IN DEED 15 A FRIEND INDEED.
i .
G
/■
%
7
,ff i>
N
V
i
.0
X
do
*
r /
X
Beechams Pills
GUY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
. . . AT . . .
THE BANKING HOUSE, 228 Pitt Street,
Opposite PALACE THEATRE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LENDS MONEY ON ALL SECURITIES, including Furniture,
FROM 10 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
FRED. McWILLIAM, Manager.
20th Century Band Saw.
KIRCHNERS
Woodworking Machines
are giving satisfaction*
Write for Catalogue hnd Information
direct to the
MANUFACTURERS-
KIRCHNER & CO.,
32 Market Street, SYDNEY
Automatic
Knife Grinding
Machine.
535
MH
'
Of course this is only one
of the many Lees’ tools.
We have also a Four-Cutter Planer, a
fine Universal Wood Worker, a Hand-
Feed Planing and Jointing Machine,
and many others.
Just say you’re interested and we’ll go
into details. Terms can be arranged if
desired.
T. M. Goodall 8 Co. Ltd.,
Universal Machinery Merchants,
303-5 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
'Phones—City 6427-8.
T. & R. Lees’
Three-Cutter
Planer — a Machine
you should have.
It does so much. Will plane or mould
three sides at once. It will work mould-
ings and skirtings and will plane, joint,
tongue and groove as well as rebate and
thickness all kinds of timber. You could
hardly imagine a more useful machine.
And as for its build! Well, the name
Lees on a piece of machinery is as good
as the hallmark on silver. The frame is
cast in one piece, giving great strength
and rigidity. The horizontal cutter block
is of solid steel, and grooved on all four
sides to take the various cutters. The
machine also has an improved variable
feed motion, with three speeds, which can
be stopped or started instantly. Very
handy it is, too.
Other details will be explained by our
expert if you write him.


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Kire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL,.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MACK LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office : I 9
3*
12in. Fan
taking
45
For All Voltages
and Systems.
Stocked in Desk, Wall and Ceiling Types.
Rigid Body, Swivel and Trunnion, and Oscillating Patterns.
PRICES MODERATE. Send for Lists.
[tin® Ola#®#
OF AUSTRALIA Ltd.,
SYDNEY: Wynyard Lane. 3520 city.
MELBOURNE: 61 William Street. 5117 city.
BRISBANE: Corner Saul 8 Roma Streets. 3676 central
FRI CT I O N
CLUTCHES THAT
CLUTCH
THE “WATERLOO”
GUARANTEED BY
PATENTEES and MAKERS
Sydney Machine Co.
BOTANY ROAD, WATERLOO,
Now South Walts.
E
TH
mhSEht
m
:
Hr
<s
N
r«3
•tames
CO
CO
UJ
!<•
IU
*>
«~X7YTX^>
?*«
yiRmo
•J3JS3A4BH ..UOJUfI
1
Clayton & Shiutleworth
Portable Steam Engine.
Tangye Kerosene Ol! Engine.
.
Machinery Merchants, Miller’s Point, SYDNEY, and all Branches.
A nrivnirft
TANGYES: Oil and Benzine Engines, Suction Gas Plants, Steam Engines, Boilers, Pumps of all >
descriptions, Winches, Chain Blocks, Hydraulic Jacks, Screw Jacks, Bears, etc., etc.
CLAYTON & SHUTTLE WORTH: Portable Steam & Traction Engines, Steam Road Rollers, etc.
NICHOLSON & MORROW: “Union,” Farm Implements, comprising Harvesters, Drills, etc.
WOLSELEY Sheep Shearing Machines. MUNRO Chaff cutters and Saw Benches.
GANE MILKING MACHINES.
THE BLARE PU
Simplex Pumps
Duplex Pumps
Condensing and Non-
Condensing Pumps
Pressure Pumps
Tank Pumps
Outside Packed Plunger
Pumps
Vertical Sinking Pumps
Compound Pumps
Belt Driven Piston
Pumps
Beit Driven 3-throw
r „
Pumps .
Centrifugal Pumps.
FOR. ALL
Call or send us your enquiry, and we will quote ygu prices
of the most suitable Pump for y
send
■'vV.-
details and illustrations
H. P.
ENGINEERS and
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
74 Clarence Street, Sydney.
-■Vaaisi**’'”**'
m
mm™*®*
■.'•■'■t
NAT
OIL ENGINES
9 to 300 Horse-power.
fIARINE and
Stationary Models
using Residual Oil.
Consumption—
per B.H.P.
per hour.
For Prices and full particu=
lars apply to Sole Agents :
307-311 Kent
SYDNEY
is
So/e Agentsi
DANGAR GEDYE <& CO
9-13 Young Street, Sydney.
Extreme economy, combined with highly
efficient working, is yours if you have
the “Lister.”
All parts guaranteed to fit the Wolseley.
“ Lister ” spare parts unfailingly render
the best service, and last longest.
SUNSHINE ENGINES
for driving CHaifcutters, Saw Benches, Pumps, Dynamos, Graders, Moists, Mortar Mills, etc.
H. V. SYIoKA Y, Sunshine, Vic. Adelaide Brisbane Sydney Melbourne.
PLAN
THE KEYSTONE”
Traction and Non-Traction.
NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS. STOCKS KEPT.
+
SEND FOR PARTICULARS TO THE SOLE AGENTS—
“THE KEYSTONE
Friction or Cog Hoist.
Fastest and Most Economical
Driller Made.
N.
■
Equitable Buildings, Sydney
Church Lane, Melbourne
