

THE GENIAL SPIRIT.
R. G. WATKINS dfc CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
• • —FOB—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers' and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
IT IS NOT COMPULSORY
but it is wise, if an advance of money is required, to go to
The N.S.W. Mont de Piete D. & I. Co. Ltd.
74JCastlgreagh St., Sydney 74.
186 Castlereagli Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
315-217 Sw.anston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT,
General Manager.
Money Advanced upon AH Classes of Security at Lowest Rates of Interest.
11l
I
rrrl
mu
Williams’s, ™e Whisky
BEQBAHT.
fiadleys Orient jjotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING
Guarantrkb
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ld.
ll7 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
X
w
Take it back.
I must have
HUTTON*
Pine-Apple Brand
t
CHUBB’S
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
32 RECIPES
for preparing a variety of the most
dainty Desserts with
HANSEN’S
J
unket
urn -
will be forwarded, Post Free to Any
Address, on application to
T. 8., Box 577, G.P.0., Sydney.
PALMER CORD
are specially constructed to ensure Long Service.
TYREES
THE SILVER I'OWN RUBBER CO.,
SYDNEY—MELBOURNE—NEWCASTLE
gfdh
DRINK
*
CKS LAGER
AMIWUD is a new product that offers to the homebuilder, whether in the city or
the country, a more desirable interior finish than plaster, a more sensible finish than
wall-paper, and a cheaper one than hardwood, though it looks like hardwood. Amiwud
is simply imitation hardwood, with all the beautiful grain faithfully reproduced. We can
supply in Golden Oak, Weathered Oak, Jenisero or Mahogany. We’ll gladly send samples.
fdh
Challis House, The Paraffine Paint Co
D S. EVANS,
Australasian Manager,
SYDNEY.
HOPPER WACGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE* CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY \J°
CLYDE WORKS
L GRANVILLE A
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY U°
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
DAVEY PAXMAN
STEAM ENGINES
Portable. Stationary, Traction.
fdhfd
When you buy a steam engine, buy
the best. The best engine is the
cheapest in the long run, and best
doesn’t necessarily mean highest price.
It will pay you to investigate the
Davey Paxrnan —the engine that has
won and holds its place through sheer
merit.
All sixes. Write for Catalogue “ 0.F."
my
31
m
jfoffaWirtuelM
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
352 KENT STREET,
(near King Street)
SYDNEY.
HELIDON SPA
The efficacy of HELIDON SPA lies in its STARKEYS LTD., Agents,
solvent power and cleansing properties, pmii/p st., Sydney, and Redtem
The Bulletin
Yol. 34.—N0. 1738.1
[Thursday, June 5, 1913.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper


GREAT BOOR SALE.
BARGAINS IN ROOKS.—THOUSANDS OP BOOKS IN ALL BRANCHES OF LITERATURE, AT
GREATLY REDUCED PRICES.
4000 3s. 6d. CLOTH-BOUND NOVELS OFFERED at Is. 6d. and Is. EACH.
Our 64-PAGE SALE CATALOGUE IS NOW READY, and will be sent Post Free to any address.
WRITE FOR A COPY TO-DAY.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP., LTD., : 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
FOR. THE VOICE! THROAT! LUNGS!
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic. Contains no Cocaine
or other poisonous drug. Suitable for old and young.
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
Bronchitis, Influenza and the
Prevention of Consumption.
Unlike Cough Medicines “Eumenthol Ju-
jubes” do not interfere with the Digestion;
on the contrary, they have a beneficial effect,
as their Antiseptic properties prevent ab-
normal fermentation of the food, and thus
they prove helpful for sufferers from Indiges-
tion and Dyspepsia when taken after meals.
The Lancet says: “Proved to be as effec-
tive bactericidally as is Creosote.”
mmrffn.
%) i l '. f 1 r"
giilNS^i
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes are sold at Chemists and Stores, tins /
Forwarded post free on receipt of stamps by the Manufacturers,
Hudson's Eumenthol Chemical Co., Ltd.,
[3
Box 1520 Q.P.O.
17 York Street, SYDNEY^
The Red Page
Little Verses from Overseas
CALIBAN IN THE COAL MINES.
God, tee don’t like to complain;
We know that the mines are no lark;
But — there’s the pools from the rain,
But — there’s the cold and the dark.
God, You don’t know what it is;
You, in Your well-lighted sky,
Watching a meteor whiz —
Warm, with the sun always by....
God, if You had but the moon
Stuck in Your cap for a lamp.
Even You'd tire of it soon
Down in the dark and the damp.. ..
Nothing but blackness above,
And nothing that moves but the cars —
God. in return for our love.
Fling us a handful of stars!
LAUIS UNTERMEYER.
KEATS.
Bo little time he took to glimpse the rose!
To us whose summers are an endless tale
Each year retold in beauties red and pale,
It seems he scarcely could have watched
unclose
One petaled spray, before the tender ivoes
Of his own shadow-sheltered nightingale
Drew him apart to some more lovely Vale
Of deeper leaves and softer flowery shoivs.
Yet who of us; for alt our summer-times
Has caught one secret of the budding
flower?
Or. in. the garden of enhoneyed rimes
Made of a moment’s bloom a fadeless bower?
Who but this hastener to fairer climes
Half-vexed at being mortal for an hour!
RHODA HERO DINN.
A. WORN-OUT HEART.
I think that God resolved to be
Ungenerous when I came on earth,
And that the heart He gave to me
Was old already ere my birth.
He placed within my childish breast
A worn-out heart —to save expense!
A heart long tortured by unrest
And torn by passion’s violence.
Its thousand tender scars proclaim
A thousand episodes of woe;
And yet I know not hoiv it came
By all those wounds which hurt it so!
Within its chambers linger hosts
Of passion-memories, never mine ■ —
Dead fires —dreams faded out—the ghosts
Of suns that long have ceased to shine.
Perfumes, deliriously stceet,
Of loves that I have never known,
It holds and burns with maddening heat,
For beauty 1 may never own.
O weirdest fate! O hopeless woe!
Anguish unrivalled! peerless pain!
To wildly dove—and never know
The object wildly loved in vain!
—From the French of IIenki Charles
Reade.
CHANCE.
Because white hands clasped white hanfi
And ivhite arms wound white arms.
I’m wandering through the wide world,
Driven by those same heart-storms.
Because white arms wound white arms,
Must mine hang quivering, bare,
All vain to reach and clasp again
White arms again as fair.
Oh no, ’turns heart on heart.
Did they that clasped desire me?
'Turns lin to Up and life for life —
Now living is my part.
Did they that loved stand awed at
My masked inheritance?
They laughed and called the echo....
I am a child of chance.
—GRACE FALLOW NORTON.
THE WAVES OF BREFFNY.
The grand rofid from the mountain goes
shining to the sea,
And there is traffic on it and many a horse
and cart;
But the little roads of Cloonagh are dearer
far to me,
And the little roads of Cloonagh go ram-
bling through my heart.
A great storm from the ocean goes shouting
o’er the hill.
And there is glory in it, and terror on the
wind;
But the haunted air of twilight is very
strange and still.
And the little winds of twilight are dearer
to my mind.
The great waves of the Atlantic sweep storm-
ing on their way.
Shining green and silver with the hidden
herring shoal;
But the little wares of Breff-ny have drenched
my heart in spray.
And the little loaves of Breffny go stum-
bling through my soul.
EVA GORE-BOOTH.
A correspondent remarks that Patrick
Mac Gill’s “Navvy Chorus,” quoted here
(l/5/’l3), is “a charmingly naive crib of
the second chorus of Swinburne’s Atalanta.”
What this page did not think it necessary to
state was that Mac Gill’s “Navvy Chorus”
was an acknowledged and deliberate parody
of Swinburne’s sufficiently famous chorus.
Henley
Into the compact series of “Modern
Biographies,” L. Cope Cornford. one
of Henley’s “young men” has put his
master. William Ernest Henley (Constable,
ls.) is largely biographical; but it is
spoiled by eulogy that topples over
into the absurd. Henley was born in
1849, and by the time he was able to
make himself felt, he flung his virile person-
ality into an age of complacent respectability,
of sentimental consideration for the Young
Person, and of an art embodied in the Albert
Memorial. “England.” as Henley said,
“went about in the (Shadow of the Albert
Hat.” Everything outside that charmed
circle was —not respectable. In his twelfth
year the boy was attacked by tuberculosis,
and at that time tuberculosis was an in-
curable disease. He was crippled ; one foot
had to be amputated, and he was told when
24 that to save his life he must lose his
other foot. The medical profession spoke to
him contemptuously of Lister and his new
antiseptic treatment. Henley determined to
save his foot, and decided that Lister was
the man to save it. Lister saved it. For
20 months Henley was Ms patient in the Did
Infirmary, Edinburgh, and during that
period he taught himself Spanish, German
and Italian, and wrote his fine In Hospital
verses. Leslie Stephen, editor of The Cdrn-
hill, became interested, went to see “this
poor creature,” and introduced Stevenson to
him. He left the Infirmary (with his leg)
at 2G, and worked for the Encyclopedia Bri-
tannica. Two years later he became editor
of a weekly review, London, hut, like all
the journals that he edited, London was not
a financial success. But no one can say that
the fault was due to this horn editor. Col-
laboration in play-writing with Stevenson
followed. Then his appointment to edit
The Magazine of Art. Henley never tried
fiction, “because I have no invention.” At
the age of 39 he published A Book of Verses.
He says : —-
“After spending the better part of my life
in the pursuit of poetry, I found myself
(about 1877) so utterly unmarketable that I
had to own myself beaten in art, and to
addict myself to journalism for the next 10
years. Came the production. . .of Volun-
taries (1888) . . .They had long since been re-
jected by every editor of standing in Lon-
don—l had well-nigh said of the world; but
as soon as Mr. Nutt had read them, he en-
treated me to look for more. I did as I was
told; old dusty sheaves were dragged to
light; I burned much ; I found that, after all,
the lyrical instinct had slept—not died; I
ventured (in brief) .4 Book of Verses.”
Followed his editorship of The Scots Ob-
server, subsequently rechristened The
National Observer, which for five brilliant
years Henley conducted. Its influence still
persists. In 1894 his daughter and only
child died ; The National Observer was
sold: and Henley resigned its editorship.
But The New Review was founded for so
incomparable an editor—and lasted but four
years. But by it the reputations of Wells
and Conrad were established. Then came
the slashing criticism of Robert Burns,
greeted by sentimental Scots with fury.
And at the age of 49 Henley found himself
left almost without an income, and Balfour
granted him a civil pension of £225 a year.
It cannot he said that England does not
honor arid reward her supreme men off let-
ters. After further publications of verse
and criticism. Henley died in 1903. Exit a
brave and brilliant man, an editor-superman,
a fine poet, born into the wrong age.
“There are people, perhaps, who think of
Henley as a bloodless, nervous valetudi-
narian. Iu truth, no impression could
be more remote from reality. A man of
massive build and great stature, charged
with an immense vitality, gifted with an
indomitable energy and a hearty enjoy-
ment of the good things of life, he was con-
demned to a physical inaction which at
times affected his health injuriously; but
he had the constitution of a giant and the
endurance of a hero.”
Canadian Verse
THE QUITTER.
When you're lost in the Wild, and you're
scared as a child,
And Death looks you hang in the eye,
And you're sore as a boil, it's according to
Hoyle
To cock your revolver and. .. .die.
But the Code of a Man says: “Fight all you
can."
And self-dissolution is barred.
In hunger and woe, oh, it’s easy to blow,
It's the hell-served-for-breakfast that's
hard.
“ You’re sick of the game!" Well, now, that’s
a shame.
You’re young and you're brave and you’re
bright.
u You’ve had a raw deal!” I know —but don't
squeal.
Buck up, do your damnedest, arid fight.
It’s the plugging away that will win you the
day,
So don’t be a piker, old yard!
Just draw on your grit; it’s so easy to quit:
It’s the keeping-your-chin-up that’s hard.
It’s easy to cry that you’re beaten—and die;
It’s easy to crawfish and crawl;
But to fight and to fight when hope’s out of
sight —
Why, that’s the best game of them, all!
And though you come out of each gruelling
bout
All broken and beaten and scarred.
Just hare one more try—it’s dead easy to die,
It’s the keeping-on-living that’s hard.
ROBERT W. SERVICE.
IN THE WOCUS.
This is God’s house —the blue sky is the ceil-
ing,
This wood the soft, green carpet for His
feet,
Those hills His stairs, down which the brooks
come stealing.
With baby laughter making earth more
sweet.
And here His friends come, clouds and soft
winds sighing,
And little birds whose throats pour forth
their love,
And spring and summer, and the ivhite snow
lying
Pencilled with shadows of bare boughs
above.
And here come sunbeams through the green
leaves straying,
And shadows from the storm-clouds over-
drawn,
And warm, hushed nights, when mother-earth
is praying
So late that her moon-candle burns till
dawn.
Sweet house of God, sweet earth so full of
pleasure,
I enter at thy gates in storm or calm;
And every sunbeam is a joy and treasure,
And every cloud a solace and a balm.
FREDERICK GEORGE SCOTT.
THE IDEALIST.
Oh, you who have daring deeds to tell!
And you tcho have felt Ambition’s spell!
Have you heard of the louse who longed to
dwell
In the golden hair of a queen?
He sighed all day, and he sighed all night,
And no one could understand it quite,
For the head of a slut is a louse’s delight,
But he pined for the head of a queen.
So lie left his kinsfolk in merry play.
And off by his lonesome he stole away,
From the home of his youth so bright and gay.
And gloriously unclean.
And at last he came to the palace gate,
And he made his way in a manner straight
(For a louse may go where a man must wait)
To the ’tiring-room of the queen.
The queen she spake to her tiring-maid:
“ There’s something the matter, Fm afraid.
To-night ere for sleep my hair ye braid,
Just see what may be seen."
And lo, when they combed that shining hair,
They found him alone in his glory there,
And he cried: “7 die, but T do not care,
For I’ve lived in the head of a queen!"
ROBERT W. SERVICE.
LOVE'S ETERNTTY.
Between the stars, the light-waves on and on
Roll from the scenes of earth’s past history
Unto the margins of eternity.
No day is lost of all that ever shone.
Each with its story into space hath gone,
So that, to-night, some distant world may
see,
Looking at earth, the Cross on Calvary,
Or the green plain and camps at Marathon.
Dear heart, whose life is woven into mine,
Who art the light and music of my days,
We move towards death, yet let ns have
no fear;
If nothing dies, not even light’s faintest
rays.
Sure that vast love which links my soul with
thine
Marks for eternity our union here.
FREDERICK GEORGE SCOTT.
What is the matter with Canada? Can’t
the Muse survive in an arctic blizzard, or
isn’t there any feed for a frozen Pegasus?
The one primary industry that is lacking in
its trade statistics is poetry. Yet Canada
has a bigger population than Australasia.
What has happened to her bards?
Frederick George Scott is one of the few
names in modern Canadian literature that
have echoed as far as Australia—a faint
echo, it is true. He stands for the cultured
poetry of the Dominion, and his Poems
(Constable, per Dymock’s. Sydney) come to
us in lordly dress. It is dull stuff, not even
on the level of Hebblethwaite, to whom in
feeling he is nearest akin. A large portion of
his collected verse is devoted to “Religious
and Devotional Verses,” and they are just
that—except when they are hymns.
He can occasionally write a fine sonnet
—recently two of his sonnets vere reprinted
as among the best in a Canadian century of
sonnets ; but in the bulk of his work talent is
apparent but not the emotional or lyric thrill.
If. in his line —culture plus technique—
there are no better poets in Canada, poetry
there has been frozen to death.
The most popular poet in Canada, how-
ever. we. are told, is an Englishman, Robert
W. Service, author of Songs of a Sourdough,
Ballads of a Cheechako, and, now. Rimes of a
Rolling Stone (Unwin, per Dymock’s
Library). Service belongs to the Paterson-
T.awson school, but does not win prizes in
his class. His verses' are cheerful journal-
ism. his heroics Fret Harte, his narrative
George R Sims. Yet he nas at times „
facility of phrase, and his philosophy ls
of useful optimism, ft is to be feared . ?
he will prove but another lethal wear.™ f,
reciters. t 0 dreadfUl &my of ™eu r '
The Music Hall Song
Let us ponder the patriotic or Australian
song, as sung nightly to the gallerv f
every music hall in Australia. Of oLJu
the chorus is the thing: all vaudeville
are remembered by their choruses. Here i
the chorus of “There’s Someone in
tralia,” words by Charles Vaude, music ht
Moritz Lutzen (I)insdale, Melb.) ;
There’s someone in Australia, somewhere in a»*
tralia, U!s '
Someone Whom I love true
Working hard where the skies are blue •
And someone in Australia bids me cross the foam
To a home he’s built mid the gums and nine
Every night the southern cross will shine ’
On heart to heart, and hand to hand, in i„ v
Australian home.
And here is the chorus of “Kosciusko”
same author, same musician (Diaper
Sydney) :
So, darling, we mihit go, up to Kosciusko.
There we'll go sliding, gliding, sleigh riding.
Don’t say you’ve no time,
On you I’m counting,
Onr love will grow, in the ice and snow,
I will be your little Eskimo
On Kosciusko mountain.
And here the chorus of “Wattle Day,”
lyrics by Edmond Newton, composed by j ( ,e
Slater (Tivoli Music Co., Sydney)
Wattle Day, Wattle Day ;
Let us celebrate our Wattle Dav
With the Rose, Thistle and Shamrock green,
May our Golden Blossom for ever be seen
Wattle Day, Wattle Day.
Bell-birds are singing bright and gay,
Oh, carry me back to sunny Australia
And dear old Wattle Day.
These are the choruses, there are the
punctuation and the rimes: the verses are
worse. “Bellerive” could do better. And
what have our Australian poets to say?
Are they content that this stuff should be
nightly chorused in their music-halls? And
what has the Australian to say? Does the
patron of vaudeville really like this stuff,
is he quite satisfied with this piffle? And
what has the Minister for Home Affairs to
say? Does he think that choruses like these
are of any use in building up an Australian
sentiment? And what has our Wide Com-
missioner to say? Does he believe that
songs of this character will attract a single
immigrant?
For the matter is of national importance.
If Australian bards can produce real Aus-
tralian songs—and they can and do —why
do not these songs get on our music-hall
stage? And if there are real Australian
songs to be had —and they should be had— l
why are they not utilised both to build up
a national sentiment and to advertise Aus-
tralia to the world? One good vaudeville
Australian song sung in half the music halls
of the Cold Country would prove a finer
emigration agent than 39 Wide Commis-
sioners and the whole expensive business
of posters, lectures and banquets. Let us
see if something can’t be done.
This page offers a guinea for a good Aus-
tralian music-hall song. It need not neces-
sarily be an immigrant-touting song; it can
be any sort of song, sentimental, humorous,
patriotic, naughty, martial, dramatic, ro-
mantic. or climatic. In fact, it may be Any
Darned Old Song, provided it be Australian
in sentiment, and singable, and possessing
something remotely resembling poetry and
metre and rime. Songs should be ad-
dressed to this page, else, t-hey may pass
into the hands of The Religions Editor, who
can’t be trusted with that sort of song, and
must be received by July 12.
At the very moment when The Girl came
round the corner of the house a blood-
stained ruffian in top boots crashed through
the window, holding under his arm the fatal
cash box. So much we are shown on the
cover of The Captain of the Gang (Is.b.W.
Bookstall Co.. Is.). What happened then
Don Delaney (author of lore and the
Aeroplane and Gentleman Jack) graphic-
ally tells. He begins with a burglary ana
ends with a discussion of the important
question: What was to be the baby s name.
In between there is plenty of buslirangmg-
C. J. Dennis (“Den”), the author of the
only Austrablankian National Anthem, has
a book of verses ready for oubhcation.
Backblock Ballads and O.F. will contain
our anthem, some “Bloke” verse and man.
of his popular contributions to this rag.
The rewards of genius. Degas, one of t e
great masters of painting, is still alive, a
still poor. A picture of his, which he
for £2O, was recently sold again for H<•
—of which price the creator of this woi
art gets nothing. A Deputy has brought
ward a bill with the object of ensun »
painters and sculptors some snare in ,
profits made upon their works during .
lives, and for 50 years after their death
tax of 2 p.c. is proposed to be l evie( L f .i ie
benefit of the artist or his heirs up<
price of a work of art whenever it
hands at a public sale. But J, ‘ s , t 0
suggested that the tax, kept l° w . 1 “ „ a i es
baulk any evasion of it by a
should be much higher, and ptacedlP
rising scale according to the increm
value since the previous sale.


w ace
I^■
fascinating
Fur--
Fa s hions {
Z?
t
y \ \
3
ui>
\ 'STS
■ V
a
I t *
■ l
B-: *»*»*
1
ua.
yjze///m
The
ora
tun on
erns.
Ofo&
Low Prices
■
DESCRIPTION OF ILLUSTRATIONS
THE THELMA. — Cape-shape Stole, of Orenberger Marmot, lined Brown
Silk 47/6. Pillow Muff, to match.... 18/6
Similar design, but large size Stole, from 37/6 to 59/6
THE OLGA.—Handsome Sable Pitch Stole, made of eight selected Skins,
with Heads crossed at centre back, finished Tails and Paws, lined with soft Brown
silk 90/- Large open Muff, to match...... 63/-
THE THORA. —Becoming Stole, in Russian Bear, very full, a hard-wearing
Fur, lined soft Brown Silk 42/-, 52/6, 69/6, 97/6
Similar design, Cinnamon, Isabella, Dark Brown 21/6, 27/6, 39/6
Pillow shape Muff, to match, lined soft Brown Silk 39/6, 52/6
THE RlTA.—Coney Seal Throwover, lined soft Black Merveilleux 39/6
Large open Muff, to match 23 / 6
Striped Coney Seal Throwover 57/6, 67/6, 72/6
Muffs to match 18/11, 27/6, 37/6, 45/-, 47/6
THE NYDIA. stole and Muff of Squirrel Lock Skins, Mole or Sable dye,
lined Merv 35/- Pillow Muff to match 18/6
No. 862. — Maid’s Coat and Skirt Costume, in fine Navy Coating Serge,
turn down collar, small revers, two-piece Skirt, suitable girls 14 to 19 years—-
Sizes, 30in. 32in. 34in. 36in. 38in.
35/6 35/11 36/9 36/11 37/6
No. 868. — Maid’s Coat and Skirt Costume, in fine Navy Coating Serge,
turned back revers, smart strap fastening, two-piece Skirt, suitable for girls from
14 to 19 years —
Sizes, 30in. 32in.
34/6 34/11
1505 — Maid’s Robe, of F.lectric Blue
girls from 13 to 19 years—
Sizes, 42in.
16/11
No. 1506 Girl’s Frock, in dainty striped Grey Tweed, trimmings of a deeper
"tone, Magyar bodies, Skirt two-piece, suitable for girls from 7 to 13 years —
Sizes 27in. 30in. 33in. 36in. 39in. 42in.
13/11 14/6 14/11 15/6 15/9 15/11
No. 1507 Girl’s Frock, in Amazon Cloth, Vieux Rose and Chocolate Brown,
"suitable for girls from 7 to 13 years—
Sizes, 27in. 30in. 35in.
13/11 14/3 14/6
Same design in Grey and Navy Melton Cloth-
Sizes, 27in. 30in.
10/3 10/6
No. 1508 Child’s Frock, in Taffeta Vo
bodies, shaped Skirt, suitable for child from 6 to 13 years—
Sizes, 27in. 30in. no
14/6 14/11
No.
34in. 36in. 38in.
35/6 35/9 35/11
Serge, smartly cut, suitable for
45in.
17/6
48in.
17/11
51in.
18/6
Anthony Horderns’
FOR THE
Winter Fashions.
THE skilfully selected collection of Fashion's choicest
creations shown in the GREEN ROOM at the
NEW PALACE EMPORIUM presents attrac-
tions that are not to be found at any other store. There is
a distinctive smartness in the dainty Winter Costumes,
Blouses and Perfectly-Fitting Skirts, and exclusiveness
is provided for by the large number of imported Model
Gowns. A feature is the big variety of smart Motor
and Driving Coats. The display of the new Millinery
is particularly attractive, and a feature is made of
Fashions for Juveniles. Send for our Winter Fashion
Book, posted free on request; it is an authoritative
guide to all that is new in the world of dress.
o
5
«
zr-
sT
&
f
J) GO
/SOS
002
at
1503
Anthony Hopdepns'
Low Prices
<; - •
snrrfo
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
(SYDNEY, N.S.W.


CO
co
/
o
t> L
a
✓
CO
'
5
✓
..
,«-.v
s
m
-
m
ms,
HA
Scrubbing the surface of 1
the teeth with powders or pastes
does not thoroughly cleanse them;
it leaves their condition and that
of the mouth, unimproved.
What the teeth and mouth need is Odol,
which antiseptically purifies the mouth and
cleanses every part of all the teeth—not
merely where they show. j
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Lud ”: Apropos the demised widow D'Oyly
Carte, a little more about Gilbert and Sullivan,
'they were introduced to each other by Clay, the
composer, and collaborated in “Trial by Jury,” pro-
duced at the little Soho, now the Royalty, under
Carte’s management. He persuaded them to attempt
something bigger, and the outcome was “The Sor-
cerer,” “H.M.S. Pinafore,” “The Pirates of Pen-
zance” and “Patience,” all under his direction at
the Opera Comique. “Patience” was transferred to
the opening of the Savoy. Here ensued the pros-
perous decade of Gilbert, Sullivan, Grossmith, Carte
and Mrs. Carte, with “lolanthe,” “Princess Ida,”
“The Mikado,” “Ruddigore,” “Yeoman of the
Guard” and “The Gondoliers.” Then Gilbert and
Sullivan quarrelled, and the charm was broken.
Gilbert tried another composer, Cellier, with “The
Mountebanks,” and Sullivan another librettist with
“Haddon Hall.” Neither proved great. The happy
pair came together again with “Utopia,” which was
not up to the old mark, and “The Grand Duke,”
which was not up to “Utopia.” Gilbert outlined the
sort of acting he wanted in an early extravaganza
called “Rosencrantz and Guildenstern,” where Ham-
let gives new instruction to the players, based on
an anecdote of Tom Robertson. An actor, at re-
hearsal, said to Robertson: “Do I take the stage
here, sir?” Robertson: “Yes, take it away, and
don’t bring it back.”
“Harrison O.”: The allegation that Julius Super-
bus has achieved complete emancipation from his
own fatal beauty and dedicated himself to the
Higher Art or something, is discounted by his per-
formance in “Man and Superman.” If Ju. had de-
liberately set out to make Tanner as unlike Shaw’s
description of him as was possible, he could not
have been more successful. Shaw’s Tanner a
beard, being “more like Jupiter than Apollo” ;
Knight’s sports a prettv moustache like that of a
musical-comedy hero. When Shaw directs that Zaek
shall wear a frock coat, J. Superbus chooses to
anpear as a beautifully tailored young Block beau.
Shaw tells us that his revolutionist is restless and
excitable; M. Sunercilious makes him suave and
composed. The interesting character, which was
eapablv presented bv Gregan McMahon, becomes, in
the hands of Julius, a courtly, chivalrous creature,
who would be no more capable of writing "The
Revolutionists’ Handbook” than of slitting the
throat of a disrespectful critic.
From London: Beerbohm Tree, of His Majesty’s,
the recognised head of the profession in London, has
had the unprecedented experience of hearing “Rats!”
and "Rubbish” hurled at him from pit and gallery.
Tree has been remarkably lucky up to now in his
selection of plays, and he has made a mint of money
by hitting the public taste with his first shot and
then skinning the carcase. It was he who put Had-
don Chambers, the Sydney playwright, on the road to
fame and fortune by staging "Captain Swift,” and
making a big success of that melodramatic ex-Aus-
tralian bushranger. But in “The Happy Island” his
cunning deserted him for once. The derisive cries
of “Rats!” and “Rubbish!” accurately sum it up.
Derek Arden (Tree’s rOle) is a wastrel, in love with
the wife of a financier named Remington. From
Remington he hears of the discovery of an island in
the South Seas rich in radium. Remington does not
know how to work these radium mines, because the
Happy Islanders have a rooted aversion to labor of
any sort. Arden is then infested in the head with a
bright idea. He will go out to the island as a
prophet, found a new religion, convert the natives to
it, and so persuade them to work the radium mines
as part of the new creed. Remington is delighted,
and promises Arden £30,000 if the thing comes off.
So we get out to the happy island—a gorgeous scene
of tropical beauty—with a huge idol in the fore-
ground, round which the natives jabber and dance.
Tree blows up this idol with dynamite, and when
the smoke has cleared away he is seen standing in the
same spot clad in the garb of a prophet, the founder
of the new religion that is to do the radium trick.
No doubt Tree thought this would make a most effec-
tive tableau, but it was received with roars of laugh-
ter, and it was impossible to take any serious interest
in the play afterwards. It is one of the things that
look like certain success at rehearsals, but fall to
pieces at the first contact with an audience.
“8.J.”: E. W. Morrison, who has arrived to “pro-
duce”' a new Yankee bellowdrama for the Combine, was
in these parts with Edith Crane, and appeared as
Gecko when “Trilby” was staged at Melbourne Prin-
cess’s in the middle 90’s of last century.
Another added to the long succession of Gaiety
“Girls”! At latest mail advices George Edwardes
was just about to produce “ The Picture Girl,”
which he had at first intended to call “The Magic
Film.”
“ Motley ”: Doughty, doyen of circus clowns,
deceased, is a reminder of those who have come
under my notice in Australia —always excepting my-
self. Not long out of arms, I saw Ned Yeamans.
Then came the great Tom Barry, from London, at
the Melbourne Astley’s, where G. B. W. Lewis lost
£30,000. One MacManyus said: “Agorra, the
Barrys is the cleverest people in Melbourne. Red-
mond Barry’s the best judge; Father Barry’s the
best priest; Tom Barry’s the best clown; and Jim
Barry’s the best shoemaker!” Leon Welby Tier
followed, well known all over Australia. Then
Cousins, who acquired his own circus. Airey was
the best singing clown, with “I Fancy I’ve Seen
You Before,” and “So I Began to Spout.” Sam
Austin and Charley Seeley came with Cooper and
Bailey. Ted Rowland was somewhat before with
Chiarini. Then there was Max Rinkel, of Burton’s,
who joined the Salvation Army; and Bliss and
Benham, and Wallett, who was with Fillis. Jim
Holloway was good; I saw him jump through a
papered hoop and come out at the other side in a
different costume. In panto, he was often cat or
monkey. In private life he was Georgie Smithson’s
husband.
Cyril Mackay is passing from Anderson to Mar-
low. His engagement with Marlow lasts until Nov-
ember, and then he rejoins “the Firm.”
It was generally expected that W. S. Penley would
leave a colossal fortune made out of “Charley’s
Aunt” and “The Private Secretary.” But he didn’t:
his will was proved in London at £10,959, which is
modest in comparison with J. L. Toole’s £79,984,
Edward Terry’s £44,056 and David James’s £41,594.
Henry Irving left £20,527, and Wilson Barrett
£30j862. Dan Leno’s £10,994 is the biggest for-
tune made in the English music-halls—leaving mana-
gers out of the count, of course.
The J.C.W. Combine will not be able to do the
Julius Knight production of “Man and Superman’’
in Sydney. Hugh Buckler has the Sydney rights of
Shaw's comedy, and will stage it at the Little Theatre
anon. Sandwiched between “Fanny’s First Play”
and “Man and Superditto” there will be a Yankee
comedy. By the wav, Buckler might do well to
make the “Man and Superman” narrative more com-
pact by including the first scene of the third act,
or some of it. The mysticism of the second scene
is unplayable, but the brigands, and the arrival of
Ann and her party, might at least be shown. In
the abbreviated comedy that Julius Knight pro-
duces, the reappearance of all the characters in the
final act is not properly accounted for, and the
meaning of Mendoza, the brigand, who is dragged
into the final situation, remains a mystery to five-
sixths of the audience.
“J.F.H.”: The queue for the first London per-
formance of “The Girl on the Film,” at the Gaiety,
began to assemble at 8 a.m. —ll hours before the
opening of the doors. The first to take up her stand
was a middle-aged lady. For 10 years, she said,
6he had never missed a musical-comedy first-night,
and she had always waited in the queue. Her long-
est wait was at the Royal Command music-hall per-
formance at the Palace last year. For that she took
up . her foolish stand at five in the morning, and
waited 14 hours. Can anybody explain how they
endure it? Also, and more particularly, can any-
body explain how the “old man” endures it?
, , , . , ,
“Yamambiak : In Victoria infants under 14 have
to get a permit from the Chief Sec. before they are
allowed to appear on the stage, the Chief Sec. is
J. Weary; and J. Weary naturally chooses the line of
least resistance (it probably means the line of
least existence, so far as the baby artists are con-
cerncd), and issues permits on the slightest P r ° v °-
cation. The consequence is that suburban picture
shows, which throw in vaudeville turns are being
over-run by infants of seven or so. Members of the
Vaudeville Artists Association refuse to appear with
such miant prodigies, and are consequently in a pe -
petual state of warfare with the managers. But th
merely incites the managers to put on moie prodigies.
There is a time coming when Australia will have t
use its gun ; and tne more weaklings that a e
been produced by the folly of proud mothers, the
gTeed of show- managers and the ineptitude of State
Ministers in allowing babies in arms to appea t
stage, the more potential defenders will be withdrawal
from the firing-line, and the more non-combatants
H.pre will be to nrotect
tliere will be to protect.
The peregrinating Charles MacMahon, who is by
way_ of being a moving-picture satrap l the
of Maori lands drops a few lines from
London. Believe me, he say 6, I am without
bias when I say that in arrangements generally and
perfectness of projection Australasians are far ahead
of Londoners. Also, the selection o films is better,
and, as I write, there are managers just discovering
and producing pictures that were done with in the
.niu t i „
Sunny South twelve months ago.
“Downen Outt”: Wirths’ Park, Melbourne, is
haunted by ghosts of dead-broke shows. Prince’s
Court failed. Then the saucer track perished, paving
the way for a meeting between Bud Atkinson’s Wild
West and the auctioneer’s hammer. In the Hippo-
drome Building a dramatic venture exploded, and
immediately afterwards the European Wonder Show
died there. The financial spooks of Wirths’ Park
don’t walk. They hobble.
From London: William Archer, who in early life
rounded up the refractory bullock on his father’s
station near Rockhampton (Q.), is now dramatic
critic of the London Evening Star. In that capacity
he discourses on the Chinese play, “ The Yellow
Jacket,” at the Duke of York’s. Archer has an
advantage over his brother critics inasmuch as he
has travelled and witnessed a score of Chinese plays
amid their native smells. He objects to the übi-
quitous property man going about with a feather
duster. Such a thing is never seen in a Chinese
theatre. In fact, Archer doubts whether a duster
could be found anywhere in China. “ The Chinese
simply revel in dust,” says he. Also the stage is
far and away too clean and tidy. The actual
Chinese stage is about the dirtiest and most r
orderly thing in Heathendom. There has been
much toning down, too. Thus one almost indk
pensable incident in every Chinese performance k
omitted—a battle scene in which the Generals stmt
about, while their troops go through the srtlits an.i
double somersaults. But a feature of whose deri
sive toning down Archer heartily approves is the
music. A real Chinese orchestra would emntv the
theatre in three minutes. * 3 K
Some new overseas plays: Arnold Bennett’s “tv,
Great Adventure” (London) tells of a famous ,
who is too nervous to explain to the doctor’T
comes to the bedside of his dying valet that it '•
the valet and not his master. Then havirw «
changed his identity, he finds that an al’le<>-eci vile?"
life is a happy one. He is free from “the hw
worship that sickened him. Defunct valet is bnrihi
in Westminster Abbey, and the artist wins for hk
wife a homely little Cockney woman, who doesn’t
worry him by talking art. Complications help the
rather scrappy comedy along, but the artist, hannv
with his wife, remains cheerfully dead. “Typhoon ”
» Japanese melodrama (London), set in the Jan
colony in Paris, has for its theme the alleged patriot-
jsm, or fanaticism, of the daps. One Jap strangles
the cocotte with whom he is living, and at once the
whole Jap colony is summoned by telephone to decide
the best couise to take—for Japan. The murderer
is too valuable a life to be sacrificed to foreign jus-
tice; so the caucus decides that the youngest and
least important of the Japs should be the official mur-
derer. Though, during the trial, the real murderer
takes the guilt upon himself, the French inrW
1)ew jidered by the lies of the Jap witnesses and of
j be accused, and, overruling the real murderer’s cnn.
f esB ion, fixes the crime upon the substitute. But thr.
mur derer has become Westernised, and in the
presence of the others kills himself. Then thp Tan
character is admirably revealed in a swift scene show?
ing all his compatriots ransacking the papers of the
dead man, so that nothing dangerous to Japan shall
faR into the hands of the % olic g e . '<Ve Spy” (New
York) is an adaptation from a Belgian dramatist
j n wb j nb all the drama occurs between the intervals
a , ld a ll the psychology appears on the stage. At
the end of each of the first two acts, when suspense
baH heen stimulated to an extraordinary degree one
0 f the characters announces that the conversation will
be con ti ni ,od in another room, and the curtain falls-
to r j sc again, in one case, after a murder, and in the
other aftcr the dead body I)as been discovered ? 2“
attitude that suggests suicide,
. ~ ®»
. °’}^ 1 ? e T : . W f rburton . Gamble, here last year
wlth Ethel Irvln g s 00., is in lilaw and Erlanger’s
New York production of “Milestones.” He takes the
part of gam giblev the ple;lsant old humbug who
abhors even the name of Socialism. George M. Cohan
has made good there with “‘Broadway’ Jones,” a farce
built on the lines of his two former successes “Get
Rich Q uick Wallingford” and “The Fortune Hunter”
Cohan ig a brother of Misg Josephine, of the “Fortune
Hunter” co. now at Svdnev Criterion,
. Tf b r , . ~ . .
n Blighter . It .hould be remembered of the late
George Coppin that he unconsciously brought a
mighty influence to hear on the Australian stage!
when he imported J. C. Williamson. It was under
engagement to Coppin that J.C.W. and Maggie
Moore started to play “Struck Oil” at Melbourne
Royal, 39 years ago come next August. For more
than 20 weeks they kept the one play going, the
receipts averaging £lOOO a week for the season,
With the winnings of his Australian engagement
Williamson went back to Europe and America. The
huge success of “Pinafore” in the States persuaded
him to make a contract to buy the Australian rights
of all the subsequent Gilbert and Sullivan operas:
also, he bought “The Sorcerer” and “Trial by Jury,”
which had preceded “Pinafore.” So. having “Struck
Oil” and the Gilbertian operas as bis trump cards,
he presently combined with Arthur Garner (of. the
then London Comedy Co. and Musgrove (who had got
going with the imported comic opera co. that brought
“Tambour Major” to these parts) to form the trium-
virate that in due course imported Brough and
Boucicault as actors. The expansion of the Aus-
tralian stage dates from the beginning of William-
son’s management, and Williamson got his introduc-
tion to Australia through George Coppin.
(Continued on page 11.)
THE PRO. AND THE SIGNATURE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Beshrcw me, niv lads, but I’m driven to think
This article-signing for good would affect us;
The malapert scribes, ere they dip in the ink
Their venomous nib6 —eager all to correct us—
Would pause, sirs, if they to the rot they call
“critical”
Were told by the Law —
Of which all stand in awe —
To attach their full names as in matters political!
I’ faith ’twere a chance to get even—and more —
If the name and address of the blighter who’d
slate me
Were printed. By Heavens, I’d call at his door,
And give him some reason in future to hate me!
His brain, if he’d got one, egad, sirs, I’d clarify;
Ilis critical bump
Would be larger—a lump—
My tenderest feelings no more would he scarify.
Maledictions on those who would roast us, say I
Anonymous varlets! what is’t they’re afraid of ?
Let those who our mumming persistently guy,
Come out in the open and show’ what they’re
made of!
Come thence to the stage—how ’twould pack pit
and gallery !
And say there, like men,
What they write with the pen:
The scenes that would follow should double our
salary !
VICTORIA.
EARDLEY TURNER.


General Electric Co. U.S.A.
ELECTRIC MINE HOISTS
Double Drum Hoist of 90001 b. capacity, with General Electric Co. U.S./.
112-H.P. Alternating Current Motor.
The General Eledtric Co. U.S.A. have many
motors operating on haulage sets and hoists
throughout Australia, and is prepared to furnish
the Complete Eledtrical Equipment for all classes
of Hoist work.
This Equipment includes Alternating Current
and Direct Current Motors, Drum type, or
Automatic Magnetic Contractor Control Ap-
paratus, Solenoid Brakes, Limit Switches,
Solenoid Operated Emergency Valves, etc.
Why not permit us to go
into your Haulage Problems?
WRITE FOR BULLETIN 4939.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC Co.
217 Clarence Street, Sydney. Corner Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne.
hzuj <JJuzoas oo-tf) it.e 6a tnl
The Royal Commission
in their final report on Tuberculosis,
recently issued, clearly showed that
the chief danger to child life resulted
from the use of infected cow’s milk.
To cuote one extract : “The Evi-
dence we have accumulated goes to
demonstrate that a considerable
amount of the tuberculosis of child-
hood is to be ascribed to infection
transmitted to children in meals
consisting largely of the milk of
the cow.”
When the mother’s milk is not
available, the “Allenburys” Foods
form the best substitute, as they are
practically identical with healthy human milk
in composition,nutritive value and digestibility,
and are absolutely free from all harmful germs.
Milk Food No. I. From birth to 3 months
Milk Food No. 2. From 3to 6 mon.hs
Malted Food No. 3. From 6 months upwards
The AllenburyV Rusks. A
valuable addition to baby's dietary
wi en teu months old and after These
Rusks are specially useful during the
troublesome time of teething When
eaten raw they mechanically aid the
cutting of teeth.
s&llenburgs
Foods
promote sound sleep, ensure
vigorous health and develop-
ment, and represent the most
successful method of Infant
Feeding ever devised.
IMF* Pamphlet on “Infant Feeding and Management” sent free.
Allen 8 Hanburys Ltd., London, Eng., and Market St., Sydney
“Things done by halves are never
done right.” “Golcryst,” the new aper-
ient made from Epsom Salts, Senna,
Sarsaparilla, Dandelion, Liquorice and
Ginger, “gets to business” thoroughly.
There are no half measures about
“Golcryst.” Yet there is no griping
nor weakening. “Golcryst” has no equal
as a Blood purifying and Rheumatism
curing medicine.
Everywhere 3d., 6d. and Is. sample
posted free by Proprietors,
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO.,
Melbourne.
“THE LONE HAND” for Good Stories and Bright Articles. Price 6d.
NEW PUMPING PLANT for the SYDNEY WATER SUPPLY
will consist of Three WOLF Patent Superheated Steam Plants
driving Gwynne Centrifugal Pumps through Citroen Gears.
Is*.
• r
m ms
»'r*i Cft'i x, w p ##fsSk*T
Tam ■ /V - »«> —■ —*% iV’ if'iSßfe.
*m i Pam v/ *~t ••»*'/ Iti t oca
i / , i f « 5 tmi I • i
11
ti
stffc
w
rare
>
,}
WOLF SUPERHEATED STEAM LOCOMOBILE.
GWYNNE CENTRIFUGAL PUMP.
As in the case of the Pumping Plant which we are supplying to the PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT for BROKEN HILL, the Water and
Sewerage Board called for Tenders throughout the World, and we were again successful, because of the great economy and
reliability of our plant. Send for Catalogue .
Australasian Representatives:
HAES & EGGERS LTD.
163 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
GOOD, STRONG, CLOSE SHOOTERS.
Guaranteed for Quality.
STEVENS
SINGLE BARREL
SHOT GUNS.
*****
Choke bored for nitro powder.
Case-hardened frame. For any standard make of
ammunition. Made in 12, 16 and 20 gauges in standard lengths and weights.
Xsk your dealer. Insist on STEVENS. Every gun tested.
Write for Catalogue and detailed information to
ARTHUR H. HILL
Australian Representative for J. Stevens Arms & Tool Co.
Box 86 C.P.0., ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA. [1
PROTECT YOURSELF WITH
The PIEPER BAYARD Automatic Pistol
Is good from 1 yard to 100 yards, Fires 6 shots in 2secs., if desired.
hfd
hfd
i• ■ -
Made in mili-
tary rifle
works, on per-
fect military
principles.
Made in Three Calibres
•25, -32 & -380.
Write to W. A. Cox, G.P.O. Box 873, Sydney, for Pieper Booklets, post free.
"hi
Simply
Turn a Screw
and Pull —
that’s all that’s neces-
sary to detach the bar-
rel of a Remington-UMC
Repeating Rifle.
It’s just as easy to clean
—it’s all done from the
breech and you can look
through the barrel and see
that it’s clean.
You’ll like this thor-
oughly tested, accurate,
reliable rifle made by expert
gunsmiths—a century’s ex-
perience is builded into it.
It is hammerless, has solid breech—no possibility of
accidental discharge or blow backs.
Shoot Remington-UMC Lesmok 22’s—they made the world’s
highest score and most perfect group. Remington-UMC
Repeating Rifles and Shot Guns. Ammunition for
all makes of fire arms. For sale everywhere.
Remington Arms—Union Metallic Cartridge Co.
(M. Hartley Company, Export Agent) 299-301 Broadway, New York, U. S.A.
Reliable Firearms.
BEIRNE Priced.
No. 8U56. —Our Special “Wonga” Single-barrel Gun. The newest and best gun on the market.
Fitted with automatic shell ejector, 12 or 16 gauge, 30in. special steel barrel, choke bored, top
lever action, works either right or left. Weight, about 6Jib. Price, 25/- Packing and
postage, 2/6 extra.
sk
cartridges.
No. BUSO. —Winchester Model 1892, half-magazine re-
peating rifle, with either 20in. or 24 in. round or
octagon barrel. Weight, 641 b. to 71b. Magazine
capacitv, 7 cartridges for 25.20, 32, 38, and 44-calibre
Price —Octagon Barrel, 65/-; Round Barrel, 62/6. Packing and postage, 3/.
extra.
THE
VALLEY,
T. C. BEIRNE & CO BRISBANE
Write for our Special Gun Catalogue,
rwj -.rai
17/-
17/6
18 16
20/-
24/6
2 51-
30/-
More Rifles from the A.P. Lists
IN our last advertisement we told of Rifles costing as low as 10/6. This
week we mention some more low-priced arms. Our stock includes over 150
different models, most of which are shown in our RIFLE LISTS, which you
can have post free if you mention this paper.
Stevens’s “Marksman,” take-down, all lengths, .22 ammunition, under lever drop down
action, nitro proved, 20in. round barrel, bead front, and open rear sights, shot gun butt;
weight 41b., 17/-
weigni 4id.,
“A.P.” Miniature Mauser Model, smooth bores, for shot or ball, cal. 6 m.m., length 34jin.,
weight 31b., 17/6.
WeigflL OlD.j 11/ o*
Winchester, take-down, 18in. round barrel, bolt action, V sights, weight 31b., shoots short,
long, or long rifle cartridges, 18/6.
Bayard Semi-automatic Rifles, .22 calibre, weight about 41b., price 18/6.
No. 1176. —Savage Junior Rifle, 18in. round barrel, single shot, take-down, self-cocking and
ejecting bolt action, .22 short, long or long rifle, weight 31b., 20/-
Winchester .22 extra heavy, 21in. barrel, untarnishable bead foresight, adjustable back sight,
bolt action, take-down, length over all 37jin., weight about 41b., 24/6.
“A.P.” Miniature Smooth Bores, for either shot or ball cartridges, cal. 9 m.m., or Eley No.
3, Mauser pattern, with side ejector, made by the makers of the Browning Pistols, 25/-
No 1177 —Savage, new model, .22 calibre, 20-SHOT REPEATER, 20in. barrel, take-down,
invisible magazile’, bolt action, shot gun butt, weight 41b., 30/-. THE CHEAPEST
REPEATING RIFLE MADE. I-
AECOCK (Si PIERCE, 3188 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball-
Bearing Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in ail of the largest and most, successtul rinks in America,
and bv all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RIGHARD&OiN
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Riohardson Ball-Bearing Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago. U.S.A.
“RICHARDSON”
hfd
CHICAGO
The Australian
Magazine.
THE LONE NANO
The National
flonthly, 6d.
hfd
A Picture of
Good Health!
Mrs. ADDINGTON, of Argent Street, Broken
Hill, writes her daughter was cured of St. I itus s
Dance, and is NOW IN SPLENDID HEALTH
through CLEMENTS TONIC.
“Argent Street, North Broken Hill,
“10th October, 1911
“CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
“Some years ago my daughter, in alighting from
a tram, had a severe fall. It gave her a great
shock, and so affected her nervous system tnat
eventually St. Vitus’s Dance ensued. She became
so bad that it was impossible to hold a knite or
fork, and going out of the house wasimpossible.
“I was persuaded to try CLEMENTS TONIC. She gradually iIFR
soon regained her normal condition. Nearly two years have elapsed SI . ...
COMPLETE RECOVERY, and all that time she has enjoyed the best ot
“I have great faith in CLEMENTS TONIC, and always recommend it. iou
can mate what use you wish of this. (Mrs } K A . ADDINGTON.”
CLEMENTS TONIC is Your MEDICINE
The Rev. JOHN HOSKING, D.D., Minister of
the Congregational Church, Fitzroy, Melbourne,
writes: —
“I was completely run down and suffered by
nervous prostration, being troubled with Insomnia
and nervous headaches.
“After taking one bottle I slept soundly, and soon
got stronger. One bottle put me right, and was
worth its weight in gold. I recommend this medi-
cine very strongly. You may use this as you think
■fif * • ' ' ‘
“(Signed) JOHN HOSKING, D.D.”
This Testimony should convince anyone suffering
from INSOMNIA or LOSS OF SLEEP and
NERVOUS BREAKDOWN, of the value of this
curative medicine.
GET IT, AND GET WELL.
All Chemists and Stores sell it everywhere.
9
&


Stop Coughing
Every cough makes your throat
more raw and irritable. Every I
cough congests the lining mem-
brane of your lungs. Cease tear-
ing your throat and lungs in this
way. Take
Auer's
From the first dose the quiet and
rest begin; the tickling in the
throat gradually subsides; and
nature completes the cure. Sold
in three sizes. Consult your doc-
tor freely, and follow his advice.
Any good doctor will tell you
that no medicine can do its best
work if the bowels are consti-
pated. Ask your doctor if he
knows anything better than Ayer’s
Pills for correcting this sluggish-
ness of the liver. Dose, only one
pill at bedtime.
Prepared by DR. J. O. AYER & 00-i
Lowell, mass., U. 8. A.
WORLD’S CYCLE RECORD
MEAD
M. Planes on a 7 year ol;l Briti*h made All*
Steel Mead Models Superbe
* COVENTRY FLYER 9
Rode 34,366 Miles in 365 Days
(officially authenticated l . Beat ov* r 650 com-
petitors on up-to-date cvcles.
MEAD CYCLES STAND THE TEST.
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS.
Dunlop Tyres, Variable-Speed Gears, etc.
Models
£3-tO to £9
Direct from factory, Packed Free, Carr Cage
Paid to your port. Ten Days' Free i riaL
Motor Cycles and Cycle-Cars at Factory
Prices. Write for Free’ Art Catalogue,
and Marvellous Offers. Agents Wanted,
CYCLE COMPANY,
(Dept. A 282 ), LIVERPOOL*
AGENT for MEAD CYCLES
VAL. D. COLE, Book Arcade, Melbourne.
LARGE STOCKS ON HAND. ALL MODELS
hfd
BUY DIRECT
FROM FACTORY.
and we guarantee you a saving of at least
£lO. All goods sent freight free. 12. years’
warranty. A postcard will bring you our
Catalogue. Established 1875.
SANDON & STEEOMAN.
76 Finsbury Pavement, London, England.
Apply for Free Catalogue to Mr. F.
Williams, Post Office, Parramatta, N.S.W.
WE SAVE YOXJ POUND
HH
CARTRIDGES
1
Eley Cartridges
ensure —as far
as any cartridge
can ensure
first-rate sport
and gratifying bags.
Among sportsmen and sportswomen
throughout the world, the accuracy
of Eley Cartridges is proverbial.
Make a trial of any or all of these:
Eley ‘Achilles’
Deep shell, gas-
tight, smokeless
(42-grain) powder.
Eley Pluto’
Grand Prix quality
cartridge, smokeless
(33-grain) nowder.
Elcy ‘Zenith’— Deep-shell, gastight,
specially selected smokeless (33-gr.) powder.
THESE ARE ALL ELEY LOADED.
Sold by Ammunition Dealers Sr Gunmakcrs
Be very sure to see the name ‘ELEY*
on the tube or shell of each cartridge.
ELEY BROS., LTD., LONDON, ENG.
ii
irt
H
%
3
n
/
Good for
The Children
Every mother knows that there is
no better Cough Medicine for the
little ones than “Bonnington’s Irish
Moss.” Its soothing and healing
properties are at once noticeable. It
is pleasant to take and affords relief
from the first dose.
Guaranteed entirely free from harmful narcotics
BONNINCTON’S IRISH MOSS
gained its place in public favor by sterling worth, and keeps it by the same
unchanged efficiency. For the relief and cure of Coughs and Colds, Bronchitis,
Whooping Cough, Croup, this remedy is unsurpassed.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTES.
Always ask for “BONN INGTON'S”
1/6 & 2/6.
D
RUNKENNESS Cured.
Any lady can cure the most violent drunkard—secretly—at home. GOLDEN
SPECIFIC has no odor or taste, and can be taken by the most delicate person
of either sex. It total’y eradicates all craving for stimulants, creating a last-
ing antipathy to alcohol in a few weeks. Many cases are cured in a few days
with this treatment. . . Send 2d. stamp for FR££ SAMPLE and full particulars.
THE GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO., DEPT. ■ < *-» MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.* N. S.W.
“Salt-Cellars” and No Bust
do great harm to a woman’s appearance. You can increase
your vitality, build up your strength, develop your bust to
no f m i •’ ou t the unsightly “salt-cellars.”
A thin woman is not necessarily plain; in fact, many thin
women are. admittedly pretty, but the admission is always
qualified with—“but, poor thing, she is so terribly thin.”
No woman need stay thin and undeveloped. Dr. Falliere’s
Flesh-Food is a harmless, perfect flesh builder. It increases
the vitality and improves the general health. Some cases re-
port a gain in weight of over five pounds a w^dk.
We publish an interesting book on the subject of attenua-
tion and development,, and will send same and a Free Sample
Treatment to you free of charge, upon receipt of a 2d. stamp.
All communications private and confidential. Write or Call
for full particulars. There is no time like to-day. (1412)
Falliere Flesh-Food Co.,
1103 Ash St., Sydney.
MR. O. VECSEY.
FREE BOOK
Dangers of Varicose Veins.
Few people realise until too late how very dangerous to their existence Vari-
cose Veins are. If you suffer from these veins, or even have them, let us send you
a free book describing their dangers, and more particularly the VECSEY METHOD
of curing them. Hundreds endorse it, as it is purely a home treatment, and does
not require laying up, and is entirely harmless. No one who has varicose veins or
ulcers should delay an hour in obtaining full information on the subject. We
have treated and cured hundreds, and can probably do the same for you, once we
know your condition. GUARANTEE GIVEN IN EVERY CASE ACCEPTED.
In some of the worst cases known, even where the victim has been unable to
walk, the patient has been restored to his feet inside three days, and a few weeks
under treatment has absolutely healed and banished the ulcers and permanently
cured the varicose veins, so that not a sign, except slight scars, remains to show
where the trouble originally existed. A painless cure without laying-up is, under
the circumstances, a positive boom to humanity.
Send 2d. stamp for free book of full particulars, or call for free consultation.
Very few cases are incurable. Write or call to-day. Hours: 10 a.m. to 4 pm.
THE VECSEY VARIX-ARIUM, 3103 Ash Street , Sydney. (1422)
NEW SEAM SANITARY CAN
FOR FOOD
PRODUCTS.
The Entire Top Open.
Sealed without Heat, Solder or Objectionable Fluxes.
IF OUR NEW AUTOMATIC DOUBLE SEAMER will
readily handle over 2000 ends hourly, and may be operated
by a boy. Our machines are made for all kinds and sizes
of cans. Will stand both retort and bath processing.
Cheap, more attractive, wholesome and better. Send for
our Catalogue.
If The machine meeting with the greatest success in Aus-
tralia, South Africa and America.
IF AMS INCLINABLE POWER PRESSES, for stamping
all kinds of metal work. They are not surpassed by any-
thing in the market.
We Furnish Complete Outfits for Making These Cans.
Max Ams Machine Co.
Mt. Vernon, New York, U.S.A.
EUROPEAN AGENCY: C. CUELPA di L., Corso Dante, 41, Torino, Italy.
Tobacco
Kills!
Ss
X
MOST MEN would
cure themselves of
the Tobacco Habit if
they knew they could
do so easily and also
without causing
themselves discom-
fort. ... It takes but
ten minutes for To-
bacco to change the
beats of the heart.
To keep it up is to
tempt death by heart
disease, nervous col-
lapse, tobacco cancer
and stomach, liver or
kidney disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harm-
less, vegetable remedy that will make the
user of tobacco in any form absolutely aban-
don the habit for good. It not destroys the
craving, the desire, the appetite for tobacco,
but restores to health the entire nervous sys-
tem, and aids Nature in entirely eliminating
from the system the Nicotine Poison of
Tobacco.
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you, under
sealed cover, a Free Sample, also our Book-
let, “ The Tobacco Habit and its Consequen-
ces.” Write for particulars and Book to-day.
H. SINCLAIR <£b CO..
Dept. 0,
107 CASTLEREAQH STREET, SYDNEY. [4.
PAGES FOR EVERY WOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Hava yon grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUBHION APPLIANCE
Never mind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is. in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with tailing steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE. COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men. women & children,
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins.at., Melbourne, Vic.
The'Standard Kennedy which has outlived the Centuries-
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
lb use nine. IMS.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or writ.
8. GREEN. 210, Lambeth Road, Loudon, Eng,
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Cheap Livers and Death Dodgers.
The principal items in nutrition are starch, sugar
and proteids. The sugar and starch fills the cells,
muscles and tissue of the body, which are formed by
the proteids, with energy. Now wheat boiled in the
plainest manner is a delicious dish. It contains
starch and sugar in their purest forms, and a pint of
wheat boiled till the husks bursts will keep a man
going for two days. With a few fruits and vege-
tables thrown in he could live a prince and work like
a slave. A substantial breakfast, costing 3d. can be
made of a dish of boiled wheat, three bananas, and
a glass of milk. For the midday meal, a plate of
boiled cabbage, a dozen dates, with a little cream
on them, half a pint of neanuts, and a glass of water.
Supper may be made of a dish of boiled wheat, with
peanut butter, and milk, two or three bananas,
boiled carrots, or cabbage, and water.— Vegetarian
person now devastating Sydney.
A vegetarian was he—
A vain and w r indy man.
Who cursed at length my sinful tea
And then to preach began.
Said he: “Ten thousand years agone
Your relatives ate roots.
Now here you blunt your teeth upon
Vile meat as tough as boots!
Come! throw away that rubbish vile!
With carrots and with wheat,
I’ll make a dinner that’s worth while,
And really fit to eat!
“Throw' out that evil mess, I say !
Don’t smirch your wife’s clean plates!
Let’s have a pint of peanuts, eh?
Some peanuts and some dates!
“Yes, yes! that’s fine!” His eyes grew wet
As he pursued his dream.
“Some peanut butter we must get.
Some cabbage and some cream !
“For drinks there’s milk and water too !
Perhans a little fruit
To finish up! That ought to do—
Your taste I want to suit.
“You see,” he purred, “these things contain
All that your system needs.
They’re good for body and for brain, .
And do not sow Death's seeds.
“Your cells”— I might have been a gaol
So freely did he speak—
“ Will one day through meat diet fail.
Just now you looked quite weak!”
I kept my temper somehow, though
His manner sweet and arch
Provoked me much. He murmured low,
“Proteids- —sugar —starch !”
He yammered on and prayed that I
Would join the cabbage crew:
He promised that I would not die
Until I wanted to.
And then, with a convulsive leap,
He passed from grave to gay,
And cried, “To live like us is cheap!
It costs NINEPENCE a day!
“Friend, think of that!” I thought of it
And, with a beefsteak raw,
I gave him one tremendous hit
Beneath his cheeselike jaw.
Then over his unseemly “cells,”
His “tissues” and the rest,
I said, “Something inside me yells
‘Your appetite knows best!’”
N.S.W.
KODAK.
Dead Sea Fruit.
When the night is dark and the wind is
high,
And the midnight sullenly draweth nigh,
And the fire’s gone out, and the evening’s
chill,
And something has happened to James and
Bill,
The dragging gloom of the moments drear
Imparts to the smoke of the late cheroot,
That ought to be carrying care away,
And the brimming glasses of Woodser-
beer
That should be good for a mood that’s grey,
A savor of Dead Sea fruit.
But, though the moments refuse to fly,
I gaze ahead with a hopeful eye
To a later evening with Bill and Jim,
When each of the party will take with him
A passionate love for assorted beer;
And, when the evening is over, scoot
For the midnight tram, on our homeward
way,
With a beautiful bundle of midnight
cheer —
Each of us bearing a scarlet cray—
A burden of Dead Sea fruit.
VICTORIA.
STONY.
Dreams.
The room is chill where once she glowed
abloom,
The world is dark now that her light has
left me,
And I remember, ’mid this gathering gloom,
How fate bereft me.
She was my world. A slave beneath her eyes,
Her every mood and whimsy thrilled and
shook me.
She came unsought, and was my Paradise;
But she forsook me.
In dreams I see her now. a laughing ghost
That taunts and tempts me when my
memories rankle.
She had a mouth bewitching, and a most
Delicious ankle.
She had a hollow bubble for a heart,
But on the bubble suave lights flashed
and blended.
I sit a haunted creature here apart....
The dream is ended.
Ah, pitiless dead dreams ! The harsh grim
blast i
Is freezing. There are angry skies above
me.
Perchance for fitting punishment at last
In Hell she’ll love me. _
MAORILAND.
FRANK MORTON.


atm
<sm
BUY THE BEST
for the SMALLEST PRICE
YOU CAN CET IT!
If you want a SIDE-
BOARD of first-class
MATERIAL & WORK-
MANSHIP, that will
last for any number of
years, we can OFFER
IT TO YOU at a MAR-
VELLOUSLY SMALL
PRICE for the splendid
qualities it contains.
OUR ILLUSTRATION
shows a SPLENDID
ARTICLE IN SOLID
OAK, exquisitely made
and polished. Orna-
mented with a large plate
glass mirror, three sep-
arate cupboards, and
three drawers with
bronze fittings. The top
is nicely carved, and the
sideboard is highly pol-
ished in walnut color.
MARCUS CLARK 8 CO. LTD.,
Price £9/15/
“THE EXPERT HOUSE FURNISHERS,”
Central Square, Opp. Railway, Sydney.
■JU£*sM
fc-'.MI;
B
in'-KlI
itifi ■■ ■>
mmssa
iMpteiili
tua
I,
Wd^:-FM
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club anti Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 11s. per day, or apartments
may he secured separately by the day from 3s. 6d. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to Thk Manager.
THe Famous BOOMERANG Mouth Organ
Sweet, Strong, Loud, Perfect and Tuneful.
BOOMERANG GRAND,” large size 6/6, small 3/6
" PROFESSIONAL,” large size 4/-, small size 2/-
“ BOOMERANG,” large size 2/6, small size 1/6.
“ POCKET BOOMERANG,” 1/-, post free.
“ARCH-BELL BOOMERANG,” with 40 reeds, 2 bells
price S/6 ; 80 rds., 2 bells, 10/- ; 160 rds., 4 bells, 17/6!
TRADE SUPPLIED.
CAUTION—Mouth Organ Artists
and Learners are respectfully cau-
tioned against unscrupulous Shop-
keepers, who try to “ talk in ” the
customer by offering him inferior
goods, which are only a weak imita-
tion of the “ BOOMERANG,” the
Monarch of Mouth Organs. If your
man has not a “ BOOMERANG ”
Mouth Orsran—the one you came for
—walk straight out; don’t accept
the spurious substitute with the
shopkeeper’s assertion “just as
good,” and get the “BOOMER-
ANG ” from another store.
hfd
hfdh
fdh
ALBERT & SON, 137-9 King Street, Sydney.
SPENCER’S MILD INDIAN CICARS.
SPECIALLY SELECTED WHOLE LEAF-No Inferior Fillings.
If not obtainable fro n your dealer, refer Sample DOXeS Of 50, 15/-
PARTRIDGE ABERCROMBY LTD., LOFTUS MORAN,
York Chambers, Market Street, Sydney. 231 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
THE NOBLE ART OF
.SELF-DEFENCE
'V
>
Learn how to box. B e able to defend
yourself. Your easiest and most satis-
factory method is to learn from GEOFF
MORI ARTY.
I have prepared a special course for
instruction by post, so that you can learn in
your own home. Pat Doran is an example
of the efficiency of my teaching.
It costs you nothing to obtain particulars.
M rite by the next mail. You are assured
personal tuition, whether I teach it by post
or if you call at my studios.
Also write for Prospectus, dealing on how
to become strong and healthy, reducing
weight, and becoming a good wrestler.
Geoff Moriarty,
Physical Culture Studios,
J 95 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE
(Between Swanston and Russell Streets).
GOLOSHES,
RUBBER BOOTS
and LEGGINGS.
GOLOSHES—
The “Special.” Best quality pure gum, with
extra stout, rolled-edge soles. Men’s, 6/6;
Boys’, 5/6; Women’s, 4/3 pair.
Regular Quality—Men’s, 5/3; Boys’, 4/3;
Women s, 3/11 pair.
Postage, 9d. pair.
RUBBER BOOTS—
The “Watershed” Best quality, lightest
weight. Men’s, 18/6; Boys’, 16/6 pair.
Postage, 1/3 pair.
The “Country” Stout make, with double
Rubber soles. Men’s, 21/-; Boys’, 18/6 pair.
Postage, 1/6.
Ladies’ Rubber Boots, 10/6 pair. Postage, 1/-
fdh
RUBBER
CO. Ltd.
270 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY; and at MELBOURNE.
ill !
wf
LEGGINGS—
fan or Black Calf, Military puttees with
Straps, 11/6 pair.
Tan Calf Leggings (as illustrated)
10/6 pair.
Tan or Black Calf Puttees, with seam in
back, 7/6 pair.
Waterproof Cloth Leggings, 4/6 pair.
CARRIAGE PAID.
4.
SOON
finished
Your time is valuable so is your energy, do
not waste either especially when there is no need
NoTcum th d ° y ° Ur polishing Wll{l Shi-
Shi-Noleum gives a bright lasting surface
to Linoleums, Wood Floors and Furniture—it
is easy to use and preserves in a wonderful way,
Beware of Imitations
ON THE NOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “Hop’s ” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price. 21s.
Beauty’s Favourite.
The article which excels all others
in improving the of the skin
is naturally and deservedly beauty’s
favourite. This has been the
acknowledged and honoured
position held by Pears* Soap for
nearly 120 years. Jt won, and has
maintained that position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by the
possession of those special emollient
properties which soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to the
skin. No other soap possesses
these qualities in such a pre*
eminent decree as
a
ARS
Matchless fo r the Complexion.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Yol. 34.—N0. 1738.
THURSDAY. JUNE 5. 1918.
PKICK (5Ub
TOO LATE.
Would a better system of Imperial trade be evolved from a fight between Freetraders and Protectionists in an Empire Parliament? Would the Dominions expose their
young manufacturing industries to the hazards of such a struggle ?—Pie Commissioner Reid's confession of faith.
AUSTRALIA: “Ah, George, if only you’d thought of such things a few years ago you might have been some use to us!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
"Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Mac-
leod, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets.
Mosman, for The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214
George Street, Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business, 1384- Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum . . . . £1 G 0
Half-yearly . . . . . . 0 13 6
Quarterly.. .. .. .. 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings Sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques. Drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager. A
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to On extent, themselves) by taking some
care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements. etp.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to' invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, Tiif. Bulletin,” is
the , superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the form
of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short
Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Australian sub-
jects, and not exceeding two columns in length, or,
say, 8000 ivords, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. .will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded ivith-
out stamps for feturn it will be understood that the
copy is to be j destroyed if not acceptable. Personal
applications for return of MS. cannot receive atten-
tion. The Bulletin desires, further, those sending
MS. to distinctly understand that it is not respon-
sible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash, of
■sufficient yperit and interest and adapted for direct
reproduction, .or any interesting photograph illus-
trative of a current event, will be paid for same on
acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea, but
unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to (be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
■suggestion only-. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
•applying to MS .j
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Cordon and Golch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa.- —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., (} 1 Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.G.; Jepsm Bros.. Nanaimo, 8.C.; S. G.
Marlin, J/J/5 Granville Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A.- —Childs News Agency, corner Fifth and D
Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Golden Gate News Co., 789
Market Street, San Francisco: Quaker News Co..
Philadelphia. U.S.A. ; Queen City News Co., Randolph
and Clark Streets. Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., Pedder Street. Hong
Kong.
Ceylon. —JF.( G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (uholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tas-
mania and New Zealand; and on account of Messrs.
Atkinson and Co., and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide—at
h/6 per doz. nett.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size,
x H/in.. and gelatine transparencies, will be forwarded
on application. Larger metal plates can be supplied if
desired.
Postage Rates.
Single Copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper):—throughout the Commonwealth, New Zea-
land, Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Ilowe Islands. lOoz. id.; United Kingdom. All Sea
Route, IGoz. Id. Only one newspaper should be en-
closed in each packet — otherwise, Boz. Id., and Bloz.
to 10oz., 2id.; lOoz. to 12oz. Sd.; elsewhere, ioz. Id.,
and id. each additional 2oz.
ffiie 9£xz2leZztfi,
THURSDAY, JUNE 5, 1913.
LABOR AND MIDDLEMEN AND
BRAINS.
Labor gets only one-third ot the value it produces.
It is out after the other two-thirds.
During the recent electoral campaign—
now happily dead and buried —a great many
foolish things were said, and the above was
one of them. The reference was, of course,
to the Australian manufacturer, who seems,
because lie: uses Australian material, and
employs Australian people, at the highest
rate of wages paid in the world (except in
the United States), to be a particular mark
for the Labor party’s animosity. There is
about the jjhrty a pathetic tendency to ad-
mire, oi - afc least tolerate, that utterly use-
less middleman, the importer, and a pathetic
yearning after foreign cheap labor goods
and sweated goods, and non-union goods and
nigger;.goods- —in fact, about every kind of
goods that are foreign, while goods made in
Australia, -tinder anything like the same con-
ditions, would be utterly accursed. One of
the most frequent pleas of the unreasoning
Laboring is that the Australian manu-
facturer doesn’t give him a fair deal. If the
matter is looked into carefully, the manu-
facturer is the man above all others who
does, on the average, give the worker as fair
# deal as circumstances allow. There are
exceptions-—casual gas companies and the
like—but they don’t greatly affect the
average.
•* * * *
In the year 1910, which is the last one
fully dealt with in Knibbs’s latest volume
of Australian statistics, it is set forth that
labor —under the heading of “salaries and
wages”—gets £l9 355. sd. out of every
£lOO in value turned out by Australian fac-
tories. _ This doesn’t look much of a propor-
tion ; in fact, it appears to the unthinking
person, who doesn’t go below the surface
of things, like something to be justly kicked
at. To go further into detail, these are the
figures:—
Per cent.
Value of raw material used £72,722,642 £6O 4 5
Salaries and wages .. 23,874,959 19 15 5
Fuel and light . . . . 2,634,831 2 3 7
Balance (profit, wages of
working partners, new
plant, buildings, and fur-
niture, depreciation of old
plant, buildings and furni-
ture, interest, rent, dis-
count, exchange, bad debts,
travelling expenses, sta-
tionary, etc., etc. . . 21,538,242 17 16 7
- - £120,770,674 £lOO 0 0
Yet. despite the figures. Labor, and mostly
trades-union Labor, is, as a matter of fact.,
getting probably 90 per cent, of the total.
The raw material item mostly represents
payments made to Labor. In a woollen fac-
tory. for instance, the bulk of it represents
wool, and most of that consists of wages
paid to shearers, boundary-riders, tank-
sinkers, fencers, producers of tank-sinking
and fencing material, bullock-drivers, rail-
way toilers, makers of bullock-drays, trains,
railway stations and railway lines, producers
of material for the construction of drays,
trains, stations, lines and sundries, road
makers, and all manner of other heavy-
weight artisans. The fuel and light item is
mostly Labor. The expenditure on wages
in this matter starts so far back
that it is difficult to trace it to its
source, but the man who delves out
the ore which makes the pick with which
the coal mine is dug, in order to produce
the coal that supplies the gas; and the man
who fells the tree that furnishes the wood
that makes the poppet-heads above the mine
that produces the ore with which the pick
is made, are only half-way up the chain of
wage-earners in the fuel and lighting item.
And even the man who inspects the locally-
made meter, to see how much gas has been
used for fuel and lighting purposes in the
local industry, doesn’t quite finish the chain.
As for the miscellaneous item of £21,538,242,
it is almost all expenditure on labor. The
repairs, replacements and new machinery
stand for some £4,000,000 or £5,000,000, and
they represent the wages of almost every
kind of artisan on earth except the hang-
man. The travelling expenses are mostly
railway men’s wages and other wages, ex-
cept the part that is interest due to Cohen
who lent the money to build the railway.
Exchange and discount and rent and bad
debts are apparently, as matters stand, un-
avoidable evils, though the two first may be
classed in great measure as plain labor.
When everything is allowed for, the manufac-
turer, despite a few isolated cases of bloated
monopoly, is about the worst paid and the
most deserving capitalist in the community,
and under present Australian conditions and
at present Australian prices, he hasn’t much
to spare for the payment of higher wages.
The manufacturer, it must be remem-
bered, must always have a margin with
which to pay for brains. Brains are often
the biggest part of the business. Thus,
about the year ISIS, thanks largely to the
intelligence which devised the hand-loom, an
able-bodied male weaver aged about 30 could
produce two pieces of cotton shirting in a
week. By the year 1845, thanks to the im-
provements which more intelligence had
made. in machinery, a boy of 15 could make
11 pieces of exactly the same cloth in a
week, working shorter hours and with far
less exertion. In the job of cleaning cot-
ton, Eli Whitney’s simple and inexpensive
cotton gin enabled one nigger to do the work
which previously required anything from
1500 to 3000 niggers, and thereafter, in
Whitney’s special line of industry, nigger
became a very small item and brains a very
big one. The inventors of the cotton gin
and the power loom enabled the cotton
worker to get fully twice his old rate of
pay, and yet buy his cotton shirt at about
a quarter the old price. But, unfortunately,
mechanical adventurers of that sort —the
Columbuses who go out with an idea and
a lot of cogs and wheels and a bottle of
lubricant, and find a new industrial world—
want to be paid. They expect to make a
little more than the winner of an Eight-
Hours Art Union. They look for a lot more
than the wages of a trades union secretary.
They even expect more than King O’Mal-
ley gets for muddling a Department. Very
often they don’t find their reward, but they
hope for it, and deserve to get it. And, as a
rule, the only person they have been able
to get it from is the manufacturer, to whom
they sell or lease their inventions. If the
worker of the moment gets the whole value
of what he caD produce with the machinery
of the moment, it is difficult to see how the
sordid mechanical pioneer is to be remuner-
ated. And if he isn’t remunerated, he prob-
ably won’t pioneer. Then the lot of the
worker won’t improve much, for a hundred
Domain orators don’t compare with the
power loom and the cotton gin for raising
wages and reducing the price of clothes.
The iifiporter, for whom the Laborite,
with his tendency to sink the fiscal issue,
shows a strange and unaccountable sym-
pathy, stands in a different category from
the manufacturer. He outrages every trades-
union ideal, by importing the products of
colored labor and miserably-sweated labor.
He represents the survival of the cheapest.
He pays poorer wages than the manufac-
turer. He employs not one-tenth the num-
ber of good Australian artisans that the
manufacturer does in proportion to the
money he takes from the people. He sends
most of the money he receives out of the
country, to the country’s impoverishment,
which the manufacturer doesn’t. He makes,
as a rule, a larger profit on his capital than
the manufacturer does. (In isolated cases,
like that of the Sydney Gas Co., with a
monopoly secured to it by the State, and the
Colonial Sugar Refining Co., with its cheap
nigger labor in Fiji, the maker of things
does remarkably well, but in the main, so far
as thi« country is concerned, he is a man
who gambles in big risks for a precarious re-
turn.) -And the importer does nothing—ab-
solutely nothing —to lighten the burden of
the toiler. When an inventor devises a
machine which will double the wages in
some line of industry, or reduce the cost of
the product by one-half, it is to the manu-
facturer —not to the importer—that he takes
his new idea. The importer has no use for
it. He may invent, now and then, a new
way of ruling the nages of the ledger. But
that is about his limit in the matter of pro-
gress. In all essentials he is the same old
trader and dealer and bookkeeper as was his
remote ancestor who imported Joseph into
Egypt. He is merely a middleman, a per-
son who paws other people’s goods, a com-
mercial brigand taking toll beside the high-
way, an individual who butts in between the
producer and the consumer and makes both
parties pay for his interference. Yet the
Government Statistical Department, for
some inscrutable reason, never dreams of
making him furnish an account of the num-
ber of people he employs, the wages he pays
them, the capital employed in his business,
or the profits he makes. And the trades
unions, which make the life of the Aus-
tralian manufacturer a.good deal of a misery,
interfere with the importer very little.
If the skilled laborer is dissatisfied with
his reward, the two persons whom he should
consider are the superfluous middleman, who
makes money by interposing between the
maker and the user of goods, and the land-
owner—not the builder of houses, but the
owner of the earth —who charges both of
them a heavy percentage of their earnings
for being on the globe that God made. In a
country which constructed everything it re-
quired, instead of having the importing craze
on the brain, the manufacturer and the con-
sumer might deal directly with each other,
and eliminate a vast amount of importers’
and agents’ profits. And in a country which
had dotted its coast-line with State-owned
cities, instead of expanding its efforts to
drag its entire trade to a private-landlord-
owned metropolis like Sydney, a great deal
of _ the rent tribute might also be extin-
guished. Then it would be possible to im-
prove the worker’s condition without being
needlessly unpleasant to the manufacturer
who, with all his faults, is the best friend
the toiler possesses among the capitalistic
classes. The poorest mechanic, if lie is
blessed with capacity, may make his fortune
and, almost as a matter of necessity, lighten
the burden of his fellow-creatures, by devis-
ing a new machine. The importer’s minion
may make his fortune by devising a new way
of being a floor-walker, or a new brand of
eloquence for use by bagmen. But as a
lightener of the toiler’s load he is a failure.
He is just the same old middleman, no matter
how he floor-walks or how he bags.
[James Edmond, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Cry of the Workless.
It is reported by various people who ought
to know that the noise alluded to in the title
of this article is becoming quite a conspicu-
ous howl these days. The “Cry” was fea-
tured last week by the Sydney Telegraph,
and. that paper based its remarks on infor-
mation supplied by one Parson Stephen, of
the Sydney Central Methodist Mission. The
reverend gentleman toils in a corner of the
vineyard where the said Cry, if one exists,
is certain to be heard early; so, despite the
general unreliability of the parsonical class,
his statements, while he sticks to facts that
are easily within his own knowledge, should
command respect. Thus when he alleges-
that during the past few weeks there have
been more apparently respectable men seek-
ing work at his establishment than for years
past, he is, presumably, going by the Mission
records, and unless he is suspected of being
a premeditated liar, his views must be
accepted. When he wanders into the realm
of inference and opinion, the position is dif-
ferent, for then he has no more records to go
upon than anybody else. This is the rever-
end gentleman’s inference:—
There can be no doubt that the stringent labor
conditions, and the high rates of wages fixed by the
courts, are bearing very heavily upon an increasing
number of men. It is coming to mean that a cer-
tain number of workers, the aristocracy of labor, are
earning large money, while multitudes of poor unfor-
tunates have either to starve or beg! The dead line
of 50 .many people now look forward to with dread.
There is always room for the first-class man. He is
not the problem. It is when the eyes loses its keen-
ness and the hand its cunning that the trouble begins.
. .. .What with insane and wicked strikes, and haras-
sing regulations, business men and those with the
gift for industrial or commercial organisation, are
afraid to take risks, so that the sources of employ-
ment are far more restricted than they ought to be.
It seems rather a pity that the holy man
didn’t carry his investigation a little further,
and consider some other features of the case.
In the first place, when a gang of utterly
insane and unprincipled politicians starts
building public works with loan money bor-
rowed at the unprecedented rate of over
£5,000,000 a year, it must gather on its pub-
lic works a very large body of men depend-
ent on loan money. And when the supplies
stop suddenly, as they always do when the
boom is run on a wholly deranged scale, a
very large body of men cease to have any
loan money to live on and become unem-
ployed. Not “insane and wicked strikes,”
but insane and wicked loans cause that kind
of burst. If the Church could see anything
beyond the crude and simple finances of the
plate it might.say. something of value on this
subject. Again, it should be pbvipus, even
to the Church, that a community Can’t get
work and wages by manufacturing the goods'
it requires, and at the same time import
these same goods from abroad and give the
work and wages to outsiders. A job can’t be
in two places at once any more than a
human being In 1909, Australia imported
oyer £51.000,000 worth of goods—mostly the
kind that could be made here if it wasn’t
for the fact that the tariff isn’t high enough
to. balance the difference in wages between
this country and some of the countries that
compete with us. In 1912. the value of im-
P°rts was over £78.000 000. That is to sav,
m 1909 there was £51.000.000 wrtrth of Aus-
tralian work - that the Australian worker
didn’t have. In 1912. things bad become so
much worse that there was £78.000.000 of
Australian work that the Australian worker
didn’t have. Now if £78.000.000 wprth of
lack of work —an increase of £27.000.000
worth of absence of employment inside three
years—was calculated to keep the local toiler
busy, then ordinary logic is a failure some-
where. Again. Australia has got to tW
dizzy point in its importing disease that hi
exports won’t nearly pay the bill for its im
ports and the interest on its foreign debt Tt
takes all it can export, and all it can borrow
and a great deal of its accumulated cmlo 7’
pay for the £78,000,000 worth of local ioh
lessness that it imports in a single year
Therefore it begins to happen that when the
local employer applies to his bank for; accom
modation so that he may enlarge his works
and employ more hands, he is met bv the
information that very much gold has'gonp
away to pay for imports, and that the insti
tution is sitting hard on the remainder for
the protection of its depositors. That, also
doesn’t help the unemployed. Unless the
Labor Government gets to work on the tariff
there is going to be quite a mass of unem
ployed in Australia very shortly, and folk of
the Methodist Mission variety are a poor lot
to depend upon in hungry times.
[.Tames Edmond, The Bulletin Office, Sydney]
The Horseman of the Desert—a Lesson
in Australian Defence.
The Italian, whose luck is something ter-
rible, has been licked again by the
hordes of Tripoli. They smote him on the
peanut and the hsh and oyster, and he fled
leaving his ice-cream barrow in the wilder-
ness. It is hardly possible to remember
how long it is since the Dago last won a
battle —except when he was engaged in inter-
necine strife with his fellow Dago, in which
case one Dago had to win, or when he had
some sturdy ally like the Frenchman or the
Briton to hold up his drooping tail. But
the fact that the casual Arab is making a
great and honorable dust in his argument
with the invader may be overdone as an
argument in favor of trusting to chance and
voluntary effort and the luck of the moment
for the defence of Australia. In the first
place, the Tripolitans have had the fortune
to run up against a rather harmless sort of
enemy, and one who is hopelessly unused to
desert warfare. That sort of fortune can’t
be depended on. In the second place, the
African men who put up the late lamented
scrimmage are a mediaeval sort of fighting
race, from the desert, or semi-desert, and no
such soldiers could be found at short notice,
or at any other notice, in any big Australian
city. Furthermore, the Tripolitan and his
allies from outback, despite all their luck in
selecting an easy enemy, and all their fight-
ing frenzy—the result of keeping carefully
away from the office and warehouse life—
haven’t been able to save their coastal cities
from falling into the hands of the Italians.
The reason why this loss hasn’t driven them
to ruin and surrender is that the cohstal
cities are practically worthless, and the
whole of them put together would hardly
make thepopulation of Adelaide. Theseatrade
which the Italians intercepted was valued
at less than £1,000,000 per annum —about
equal to that of some outlying S.A. port
which peddles ore and concentrates to
Europe. And some of that trade has been
rescued by the natives, and is now done per
camel on the French or Egyptian borders.
The Tripolitan shipping, which the Italians
have sadly interfered with, would, if all
added together, represent about the tonnage
of one Australian coastal steamboat. The
country’s most valuable commerce, such as it
is, has always been an inland trade,_ per the
humped ship of the desert, and as Tripoli has
three land frontiers, this goes on much as
usual. So when Italy fell on the unpre-
pared Tripolitan, and took his sea-side
towns, the unprepared Tripolitan could say
frankly: “Take them ; they won’t pawn for
2d.” ' Then he rallied his forces in the dry
inlands, and proceeded to be nasty, and to
live on agriculture and his interior caravan
business. A people of that sort can almost
afford to let military preparation slide, and
trust to the hazard of the moment. They
had no banks, insurance offices, mint, Trea-
sury, public libraries, universities, _ great
warehouses, railway centres, big factories and
the like on the sea-shore to be lost to the
enemy. The European didn’t get. enough
loot to pay for a day’s campaigning, and
the African didn’t lose enough to make him
campaign a day the less. So the riotous
men of the desert, in their casual sort of
w r ay, are holding at least a good part of their
country against the invader. But it cer-
tainly doesn’t follow that their tactics teach
any lesson to Australia. This country has
given too many hostages to fortune in the
shape of its coastal cities. It can’t throw
up Melbourne and Sydney with the cheerful
assurance that the invader won’t find them
worth 2d. Its fat bank managers and peace-
ful importers aren’t qualified for the Bedouin
variety of warfare which the Italians find so
embarrassing. It is probably years since
William McMillan or Russell F r encii
or Gyles Turner careered on an Arab steed
across the plains of Nevertire, with a gun
and a spear and a profound faith in tn
Prophet. Not one of them has. shot ano
for weeks, or pursued the wild ass tni
year, or even struggled with the fiy<®
on a Saturdav afternoon. And
life on the Darling wouldn t suit t
fleeing wives and daughters of zo
Piper. The story of the Tripolitan defence
is interesting reading, but it doesn t sno
short and easy way to na f l °, ,
security. Apparently this country must P
on with its compulsory training and the
struction of its guns and the building or ■
fleet in the old, ordinary, unimagina
way.- - ,
[.Tames Edmond, Tiif Bulletin Office, Sydney.)
Where the Colored Races Can’t Live
and Work.
Professor Allen, the pathologist of Mol
bourne University, has furnished 'h c
monwealth Government w r ith a re l , f ,
“Health Conditions at Panama, whicn ‘
full of hope for the successful sett*
ment of even the least healthy 1
of North Australia. When UNCLE *
took on the job of making a
way' through it, the Panama ist n v
had proved itself just about the most -
country in the world for humans. ,
French Canal Co., spurred by the success
Suez, put in some strenuous work tn
1881-1889. The death rate then was iVJ P
1000 per annum. Color made no dm , f
“A thousand negroes brought f rom L t 0
all died within six months, accord g
Colonel Gorgas. of the Isthmian C*»ai eow
mission. “A thousand Chinamen WJ.. - x
ported, and they also perished witn
months.” The U.S. Isthmian Canal u^ f
mission decided to sdld the doctor all >


the engineer and the navvy. The doctor
started a campaign against the mosquito.
By the end of 16 months yellow fever was
eradicated. Then by attending to the water
supply, it was made impossible for the
malaria-carrying mosquito to breed; and he
disappeared too. The old death rate, as
mentioned just now, was 240 per 1000. By
1906 it was reduced, so far as white em-
ployees were concerned, to 13.25 per 1000.
By 1911 it was down to the surprisingly low
rate of 5.88, exclusive of deaths from" acci-
dent and other forms of violence. But there
are more astonishing figures still. The 5.88
per 1000 quoted covers all employees, includ-
ing laborers recruited from Spain, Italy and
Greece. 'Among 6025 white American em-
ployees alone, the death rate in 1911 was
2.82 per 1000, still excluding deaths from
violence. There were in the Isthmian com-
munities 4464 white American women and
their children. Among them the death rate
was 6.72 per 1000, and it had been as low
as 4.32 per 1000. Maoriland has the finest
death rate in Australasia: yet its figures for
1911 were 10.46 per 1000 for males, and
8.21 per 1000 for females. While these
amazing results were obtained in relation to
the white population, the figures dealing
with the colored population, living under
precisely the same general sanitary condi-
tions, are far less striking—from the pro-
nigger or Spruce Myth point of view. The
Isthmian Commission was given control over
a 10-mile strip following the line of the
waterway, and including the native towns
of Colon and Panama. From these and
neighboring towns, as well as from the West
Indies and the Southern States, anything
from 25,000 to 40,000 black laborers were
drawn. The following figures, brought to-
gether from the Commission’s reports, show
how the mortality of the two sections of
employees compared :
White Black.
Americans. Laborers.
1906 . . 7.00 per 1000
1907 . . 9.76 ~ 45.94 per 1000
1908 . . 7.68 „ 19,48 „
1909 .. 6 80 „ 11.98
1910 .. 5.76 „ 11.40
1911 . . 5.14 „ 11.81
There was an epidemic of pneumonia among
the black workers in the first year, for which
complete statistics are available; so those
figures may be disregarded as abnormal. Cut-
ting those out, it will be seen that the white
men, living and working hard in a tropical
patch that was regarded at one time as
positively uninhabitable by a white race,
showed a death rate twice as satisfactory as
that of the colored men working alongside
them. More than that, while the death rate
among the white American women and chil-
dren was never in any year more than 9.72
per 1000, the average among the native black
population of Colon City, men included, was
no less than 27.22 per 1000. Only one
conclusion is possible from these statistics,
and Colonel Gorgas expressed it even before
the figures for the last two or three years—
the most gratifying of all —were available.
Eliminate yellow fever and malaria, he said
at Cornell Medical College, and “life in the
tropics for the Anglo-Saxon will be more
healthful than in the temperate zone; and
gradually, within the next two or three cen-
turies, tropical countries, which offer a much
greater return for a man’s labor than do the
temperate zones, will be peopled by the white
races, and become the centres of wealth,
population and civilisation.”
Wild—not to say Demented — Justice.
The Privy Council judgment of last week
places Australia in a weird position as re-
gards Trusts. To put the matter in the
very plainest terms, a Trust may do any-
thing in this country, so long as its primary
aim is to make money. The consumer may
have vast sums torn off him by way of raised
prices; individual retailers who get in the
way of a Trust may be ruined —
deliberately ruined —“to encourage the
others,” as the cheery Gaul hath it;
the goods dealt in by the Trust ‘ may be
irregularly supplied, or poor in quality, or
different from the particular sort that the
community requires. None of these things
will affect the issue. Unless the Government
of the day is sure that it can prove to the
satisfaction of a Court of Law that the com-
bine in question entered into a set agree-
ment to act as above “with intent to restrain
trade to the detriment of the public,” it will
only be casting money away if it litigates.
No Australian Government is likely to ever
again have such a unique chance to prove
intentional detriment as the Fisher Govern-
ment had in the Coal Vend case. By mere
chance, or luck, W. M. Hughes got hold of
the minute hooks in which a record of the
private discussions of the Vend principals
and their lawyers had been kept. These
showed, among other things, to the com-
plete satisfaction of ordinary men of the
world, that the price of coal had been
bumped up to an excessive price in four
States of the Federation; that a shipping
firm which declined to join the Vend had
been driven into the Insolvency Court; that
there had been short delivery of coal on
numerous occasions, and likewise non-
delivery of the kind of coal that was
ordered by customers. So perturbed were
the colliery-owning parties to the Vend,
when these facts were established, that they
flung in the towel, so to speak, and paid the
Commonwealth Government £16,000 in sat-
isfaction of the fines and costs which they
considered to be due by them. The Privy
Council judgment has not exonerated either
them or the shipowners of the above actions.
It has merely laid it down that, under the
Australian Anti-Trust law, as it exists to-
day, such actions were allowable. The
question of ethics did not entef into the
affair. The onus was on the Government,
under the Act, to legally prove intent to
injure the public! Could such intent be
inferred from the manoeuvres of the Coal
Vend? Or was it not their perfectly legiti-
mate aim, rather, to earn big profits, the
disabilities suffered by the public being mere
incidentals to that object? The Privy Coun-
cil has answered “No” to the first query
and “Yes” to the second. _ Consider how
this decision hits Australia. Among the
necessaries of modern life is. petrol. As one
of the world’s prime transport forces—not
only motor-cars and taxi-cabs, but ships,
lorries, delivery vans, and so forth, are being
Iriven by petrol to-day—it enters into the
life of rich and poor alike. According to
Mulh all’s most recent figures the cost,
per gallon, of refined petrol in the U.S. is
nine cents —say 4ld. Despite a tremendously
increased output, and _ the introduction of
modern methods of piping and refining, the
I etrol Trust has bumped un the price of
this commodity in England to Is. 7d.
per gallon; and it is still rising. It
is already Is. lOd. per gallon in Aus-
tralia, and as our law stands the Petrol
establish itself here to-morrow,
and charge 2s. or 3s. per gallon for its wares.
It could supply poor stuff, and only deliver
the same when it felt like it. And it could
wipe out of commercial existence any firm
which tried to compete with it, by attempt-
ing the hopeless task of getting petrol else-
where. According to the Vend judgment
none of these things would be detrimental to
the public in a legal sense. Similarly, nothing
of the sort would be detrimental, in the
eVe of the Law, if done by the Beef Trust
or the Cotton Trust, or any other old Trust.
Surely Australia will say that if this is
good law, it is, at any rate, rotten bad sense
and justice, and in the fulness of time Aus-
tralia will act accordingly.
[John Bede Dalley, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
From the Old World.
When the N. S. Wales Liberal party turned
down Joseph Carruthers, some years ago,
there were mutterings of dissent. He was
referred to warmly as an Old Warhorse, and
One Who Knew The Game, and the theory
was expressed in certain quarters that to
lose a leader of this calibre amounted to a
disaster. As time passed and the Liberal
cause began to wilt, the mutterings grew
louder. There was talk of getting the
Ancient Battle-Horse back. Nor did he
seem averse from returning. He projected
himself, uninvited, into the last State elec-
tions, with the Walls of Derry in one hand,
so to speak, and the Iviama ghost in the
other. The-Wadeites, who have always had
the whole-hearted support of Conservative
Catholics, and know it, viewed this well-
meaning effort on their behalf with appre-
hension, not to say fury. Someone con-
trived to gag the maladroit wire-netting
expert, and Wadeism was saved from dis-
grace if not from defeat. Yet the Liberal
party failed to appreciate that the cause
was faring badly, not half so much because
of poor leadership, as for the reasons that
it is an intensely Conservative party - and
that in a country where education has been
free, universal and compulsory for several
generations, such a party can never hope
to do much good for itself. On all sides we
hear complaints that things were otherwise
when J. Carruthers Plancus was
Consul. It was actually suggested, three
years ago, by “Eheu Fugaces” or “Senile
Dementia” or someone of that sort, that a
Federal seat should be found for N.S.W.’s
ex-Premier in order that he might lead the
forces of anti-Socialism in the National
Parliament. Providentiallv for Liberalism
the scheme fell through. During the last
couple of weeks J. H. Carruthers has
demonstrated what a hopeless has-been he is
politicallv speaking, to the satisfaction of
practically everybody. His proper place is
away back in the pre-motor car period, if,
indeed, he doesn’t rightly belong to the
epoch when people played cricket in tall
hats and rode velocipedes. His arguments
against the Government’s Referenda pro-
posal recall some of the most intelligence-
insulting gags of the old Freetrade party;
they are reminiscent of the wild irrelevan-
cies that characterised the first part
of G. H. Reid’s still-born anti-Socialist
crusade in 1903; and they bear a powerful
family resemblance to the imbecilities that
were advanced, originally, in opposition to
compulsory service and a local navy. As
reasons why the electors shouldn’t amend a
Constitution which has proved, after 13
years’ experience, ineffective to provide the
legislation that the majority of them desire,
Carruthers has cited, variously, the case
of the Six Hatters who, 10 years ago, were
delayed from landing here for a brief while
because their employer had failed to go
through certain formalities necessary in the
case of imported contract workers; the grey-
headed old Petriana affair; and the Poon
Gooey incident. None of them have any
more relation to the proposed constitutional
changes than such matters as the ill-treat-
ment of the aborigines by the early settlers
or the eating of Captain Cook by islanders.
The Act under which the hatters were tem-
porarily debarred from landing in Sydney
was put on the Statute Book by n Liberal
Government, and by that Government ad-
ministered ; the same applies to the Act
under which the wrecked Petriana niggers
were sent back to their homes; and so far
as Mrs. Poon Gooey is concerned, she was
excluded from this country under a Liberal
law which Federal Ministers are sworn to
observe and enforce, and which no single
Liberal has attempted so far to get re-
pealed. The plain fact is, all this fantastic
talk about Robbery and Ruin and Oppres-
sion and the likelihood of legislators on
minimum salaries of £l2 per week per man,
behaving at the first opportunity that is
given them, like a collection of criminal
lunatics, is out of date. It did well enough
for the dark ages when seats were won on
the “sectarian ticket” alone, and when State
elections were carried triumphantly on some
such issue as the predatory villainy of Vic-
toria. The modern Australian has, as a
general thing, no use for such fustian. The
methods by which J. H. Carruthers has
been seeking to help the anti-Referenda
cause will never be of service again. They
have done their dash.
[John Bede Dalley, The Bulletin -Office, Sydney.]
- -♦
The Land of Lobb.
A lovely argument for State-ownership of
land was aired in Melb. Practice Court
last week. The Judge was asked to sanction
a new lease of the earth where the
Athenaeum Club stands, and thus the story
of its freehold came to be told. John Lobb
owned the land up to 1864. when he passed
hence to claim his inheritance in Heaven,
leaving his rents and nrofits to be divided
among six children. Lobb aforesaid had
presumably bought his real estate at a low
quotation in the early days, for this par-
ticular piece is only an item “amongst other
property,” from the rents and profits
whereof the six Lobbsters aforementioned
have been drawing sustenance. Forty-nine
years are gone since father died, and still
they lobb on luxuriously on their unearned
increments. The will of John Lobb de-
ceased gave the trustees no express power
to grant leases, but when in due course the
old leases expired the Court paternally per-
mitted the trustees to raise fhe rents and
profits of the property in the usual way of
people whose estate has acouired a growing
value through circumstances over which
they had no control. Seven years ago the
Court sanctioned a renewal of the lease of
the land in question to the proprietor of the
buildings thereon. That lease being now
about to expire—the terms were withheld
from publication—the present tenant desired
a further renewal for 15 years at an increase
in rental of £550 per annum. The Court
sanctioned this new lease. So, with a few
strokes of the pen the six surviving Lobbs
are adding £550 per annum to their unearned
income from this particular section alone of
their Melbourne city property. Which ob-
ject lesson in the iniquity of the freehold
land system should be remembered every
time the organs of I’ropputy grind out their
familiar anthem re the incentive that free-
hold ownership of land gives to Private En-
terprise. The Northern Territory, says the
Tory press, can be developed only by dis-
posing of the land in “fee simple” to intend-
ing settlers. Long leaseholds at a nominal
rental, extending to the full limit of the
lessee’s natural working life, will not suffice
to attract settlers. The future cities of the
Territory—they are bound to come—must
necessarily be in the private ownership of
Lobbs, otherwise there can be no peopling
of the Empty North. The old fee simple lie
is repeated ad nauseam, in face of the fact
that cattle are grazed, land is profitably cul-
tivated, factories are sprung up, shops and
theatres are built, and great fortunes are
made in them by leaseholders all the world
over. But, alas! the landlords are lazy
Lobbs instead of the Government, and the
increments resulting from the working of a
world in which the Lobbs are drones, serve
merely to fatten the droning Lobbs instead
of bettering the lot of the community at
large. What have these particular LoSbs
done towards making the conditions under
which the ground rent of the Melbourne.
Athenaeum Club property is about to be
raised £550 a year for the next 15 years, and
will be still further raised at the end of that
term unless the Japs come along in the
meantime? They have merely served as illus-
trations of how private individuals grow
richer by inheriting laqd in fee simple.
General Gordon has returned from a
visit to Port Darwin with an interesting
platitude in each hand. No. 1: “The first
thing that strikes one definitely after a
brief stay at Darwin is the absence of rail-
way communication with the rest of Aus-
tralia.” (It might be added just here that
the first thing that strikes one definitely
after seeing a completely fleshless skeleton
is that the late owner must be dead.) No.
2: “That in consequence there is a want
of population, and until there are people to
draw on, there cannot be any local means
of defence.” (This conviction is probably
based on the fact that the white ant isn’t
a hefty fighter, and the crocodile that
Johnson nearly sat upon in the long ago.
though of some account in the forefront of
the battle, is a shifty and undisciplined
irregular or Bashi Bazouk, and wholly un-
reliable.) After all, this news doesn’t *mt
anybody much further forward. Everybody
knows about the lack of railways, and the
lack of population, and the lack of defence,
and the Northern danger in general. But
politicians are so hopelessly divided about
the route of the railway that no agile
Blighter who leads a Federal party feels
like committing himself yet. In fact, Aus-
tralia waits till the agile Blighter can afford
to think of this continent’s safety without
damaging his own monthly cheque.
[James Edmond, The'Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
♦
“Shipping Clerk” : The Marine authori-
ties of N. S. Wales have dropped a
gentle explosive into our overworked
profession by ordering that every out-
ward steamer with 50 or more third-
class passengers must be passed by a
doctor before leaving. The third-class pas-
sengers and the crew are to be paraded, just
before the ship leaves, and a certificate given
that they are not mad, leprous, or otherwise
deteriorated. But if the ship has only 40
in the third class, they can go to Hades as
far as the marine people care; also the first
and second class are exempt from any exam-
ination unless it is the eye of the detectives
as they go up the gangway. My job is to
get the medical certificate, and I am
up against trouble. The crew is bound to
be busy firing up, or peeling spuds, or clean-
ing the decks, and all have to be collected.
The third-class passengers are sure to be
either kissing their womenkind, or up town
buying a last something or other. Anyhow,
I won’t know who are passengers and who
aren’t; neither will the doctor. And if we
escape being assaulted by a drunken Liver-
pool fireman or two, we’ll probably lose our
billets. Which is about the best thing that
can happen to the shipping clerk.
Most people know that when they smoke
in a non-smoker, or drape their feet on the
seat of a tram-car they are liable to a pro-
secution, and on conviction, to a fine “not
exceeding £2.” But how many are aware
that if they escape conviction for these mild
crimelets they are liable to be dragged by
means of an instrument called an “order for
review” before the Supreme Court? And
from the Supreme Court they can be taken,
if necessary, by the same engine of
exasperation, to the High Court. The
recent case of Ah Chook illustrates
this practice. Hi Lee had a laundry. Ah
Chook was his lodger, and he, as Chief
Justice Griffith put it, “was allowed the
privilege of ironing his shirt in the laun-
dry.” One night Ah Chook ironed his
shirt there after 6 p.m. Now the Fac-
tories and Shops Act (1905) insists that no
person shall work in any laundry after 5
o’clock, under pain of a penalty not exceed-
ing £2. A just and honorable Slop or Hop or
Dunn seized Chook and charged him before
a Bench of magistrates, who dismissed the
case. The State Law Department appealed
to the Supreme Court. It also declared for
Chook. And so, subsequently, did the High
Court. The wretched Chook has pretty
well ruined himself fighting this case
through the different courts. And the
public has to foot a big bill of costs. Still
the majesty of the Law has been vindi-
cated, not to mention the mulish stupidity
thereof.
♦ -P?
A just complaint (signat&re attached in
conformity with the law) 2-
Melbourne Argus, whilst shrieking for Fusion, dis-
gusted all the Protectionist members, as well as the
Fiseal-trucers, of the combine, by engineering the
intrusion of Renwick. the Freetrader, among the
“Liberal” nominations for the Senate. The cer-
tainty that Renwick hadn’t Buckley’s chance of
being elected was clear to all Argus followers
save the mumbling minority of toothless Tories v/ho
still swear by Cobden, and believe in Murray
Smith. He was the. hopeless outsider in the race
who could only serve to block one or other or all
three of his stronger Fusion stable-companions. See-
ing that Fusion’s only objective was the defeat of
the Labor three, the starting of this broken-winded
candidate, in strictly Freetrade interests, was re-
sented by Liberals as a worse th|n stupid mistake.
It was “unsportsmanlike.” It dawned upon the
Fiscal-trucers that the Argus, §r> be consistent,
would have needed to prefer Berwick to even its
own Joe Cook, had he been standing for the Senate,
inasmuch as Joseph is committed to the laissez faire
doctrine, whereas Renwick snorted at the existing
tariff. The pitiful attempt to bump Sam Mauger
with its personal spite candidate, without considera-
tion to the stable interests, was about the worst of
the many bad things the Freetrade journal has
done for its reputation as a dunder-headed tactician
at election times. When the day drew near for
Renwick to be blown out, his trainer practica’ly
ceased to profess any confidence in his chance. The
Argus still issued reports from the track, but they
The Passing of Arthur.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
About the most interesting contribut on to the
Hop Poon Gooey discussion was the letter of one
Arthur Litchfield, of Cooma (N.S.W.), who wrote
that he felt inclined to “sink into the earth with
shame” because Hop P. G. was at last to be
made to observe the law. Well, why shouldn’t he
sink? It would at least be a cheap form of burial,
and if he sank with “shame,” that would be about
the most inexpensive thing he could take with him.
A more reckless man might sink with tuppence, and
in the present strained condition of the money
market, the coin would be missed. So let Arthur
sink with shame—or old boots, or applause, or any-
thing else that won’t be missed.— The Bulletin
(17/4/’l3).
A sound of wailing rose upon the darkened
Fusion shore,
As if three Bill-cats raged in midnight
argument;
Lo, on its dismal march a sign most strange
this Army bore —-
A piebald Flag with black and white and
brindle blent!
And in the van I saw J. Cook most
furiously strike his chest
When spake the gallant Arthur : “Sire,
this- flag that flies
Is Hop Poon Goey’s sign, Ah Fat’s, Ram
Ciiunder’s, and the rest —
Say, shall this Poon go forth in such most
shameful wise?”
Up spake our Joseph—monarch of that
sad and tattered tribe
That reeled along, and raised the battle-
shouts of pelf—
Quoth he: “Alas! spare me the bitterness of
taunt and gibe—
Who leads against the people leads
against himself!
Yea, this I know. The fragments of for-
gotten parties march
With me, and ghosts of old, dead leaders
starkly rise ;
Their tongues hang out —for Chow and Jap
and cheap Hindoo they parch—
Alas! this is the Fact I dare not adver-
tise !
“Behold yon swollen shape—the shadow of
the great Yes-No
Looms black and awful with his spectral,
haunting kith;
When Gonroy howls, and all the myths and
shades of long ago
In chorus wail with Dry Dog Reid and
Pumpkin Smith !
Moans of the dying? Voices of the tomb? —
alas! each head
Is lifted up, and shrieks and moans beside
the grave;
Behold, I seem a drab and hopeless leader
of the death —
Hear’st thou -this Voice that shakes high
heaven’s architrave?
“It wastes the narrow realm wherein we
mover and beats upon
This Army of the Lost —unhappy legions
fling
Away their arms with fear! Say, is the
dread Poon Gooey gone?—
I know not what I am, nor whether I be
King!
Alas ! it is Australia’s stern and strong, re-
lentless voice
Cries out: ‘Away with him—this Nation
shall be White';
Mock me no more with savage words —I
have no other choice —
For Chow and Jap, Malay, Hindoo, I
dare not fight!”
Then spake great Arthur : “Sire, this heavy
vrord shall be my doom —
Into. the earth I sink with black-and-
yellow shame ;
I go to join the great Blackbirders in the
Tory tomb —
This sequel of to-day melts all my soul
with flame!
Yea, I will go, and with the shadowed
legions of the dead
Hold speech of sorrow, and in bitter tears
commune;
Since this sad Land doth flaunt its White,
unstained, unbrindled head,
I go to meet the shades and mourn the
outcast Poon !”
So saying, from the face of things and facts
he strode at large,
Until he came unto the Tory’s bitter lake,
Wept full of Tory tears, and there beside a
dusky barge . ,
Impaled himself upon a sharply-pointed
stake.!
Black-stjpled* black-hooded, like a dream then
rose Iherh Gnashes three —-
Three mournful Gnashes from the Tory
Women’s League;
And bore our Arthur’s corpse, and raised
> loud ,, wails of agony,
Like Wowsers nabbed in some unguessed
but vile intrigue !
Friends ! weep a little while with me—l am
not Tennyson,
Nor Byron, Shelley, Cowper, Milton,
SPaksl’Eare. Burns ;
Yet let me gird their robes one sad and
heart-felt moment on,
Arid be the lot at once —with grief my
spirit yearns!
For now, alas! I see the true old piebald
times are dead —
The mighty Joseph sobs, the Gnashes
slope with Arthur’s clay;
Poon’s On the Hop !— from burst Geelong
have all the Gooeys fled,
And on the- lake Mongrelia's echoes fade
awayJ
[Signed in terror of the Act by George Cochrane,
otherwise Grant Hervey, Box 81, P. 0., Casterton,
Victoria.]


0
Garden
Seeds.
fdh
NO MONEY WANTED.
r N order to introduce our HIGH-GRADE
TESTED SEEDS into every home, we are
giving away prizes such as MUSICAL IN-
STRUMENTS, SILVER WATCHES AND
CHAINS, CAMERAS, RABBIT RIFLES,
LADIES’ MUfF CHAINS, SOLID GOLD
RINGS, JEWELLERY, etc., FREE to the
value of One thousand Pounds. All you have
to do is to Send Us Your Name and Address,
and we will forward you 24 assorted packets of
our Reliable Seeds, such as Turnip, Lettuce,
Cabbage, Tomdflo, Wallflower, Sueet William,
Mignonette, Gafelardia, etc. Sell the packets at
3d. per packets send us our money (65.), and
we will send you by return mail any present you
may select frem our grand list. WE TRUST
YOU—THE I£ISK IS OURS. You may return
the seeds if sold. Don’t delay. SEND AT
DNCE before our offer is withdrawn.
FLORISTS SEED
SUPPLY C?
127 BONDS: SYDNEY
STOMACH TROUBLES.
Laxo-Tonic Pills are a most effective remedy for
Biliousness and -all irregularities of the stomach and
bowels. They act quickly and effectually, without
weakening the system, as is the case with most medi-
cines used for these troubles. Price, 10Jd. and Is. 6d.
Obtainable everywhere.*
COMING!
GREATER
HELEN GARDNER
in
CLEOPATRA.
The splendid 6000 ft. Photoplay.
CRYSTAL PALACE
Theatre de Luxe.
Beginning June 9th.
USUAL PRICES OF ADMISSION.
J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
WM. B. MILLER, General Manager.
told their own tale. For instance, in his final gallop
at the Town Hall of Hawthorn, where importers are
numerous enough, the despised candidate was said to
have “addressed a meeting”.... which “closed with
a vote of thanks to the chairman.” The intervening
report of how Rex wick stood and kicked at Protec-
tion in Victoria, prior to Federation, couldn’t have
been seriously intended to commend him to Fusion
punters. He was reported as saying that “the aver-
age factory wage was larger in N.S.W., in 1901,
before that State had lost the blessings of Free-
trade ... .Protection is robbery,” etc., etc. And this
was the Fusion flyer whom the Argus had insisted
on nominating in opposition to Sam Mauger, the
staunch High-Tariff advocate, in the State where
Liberalism was understood to be fighting Labor be-
cause of its lukewarm Tariff policy.
[Edmuxd Fisher, The Bulletin Office, 369 Col-
lins-street, Melbourne.]
The Federal Election.
When The Bulletin went to press, which
is earlier than many people imagine, the
outward aspect of things suggested that the
Fisher Ministry would be in a small
minority in the House of Representatives,
and in an overwhelming majority in the
Senate. (This statement is made without
prejudice, for there are still quite a number
of returns to come in.) But the Ministry
depends on the House of Representatives,
so, on the evidence of the moment (which
may be altered later), the Fisher Cabinet is
doomed. Joseph Cook will (seemingly) be
Prime Minister, With a microscopic majority
in one House, and a speck of a minority in
the other. (The public is earnestly en-
treated to remember that this is written on
early and insulfieieM, information.) But the
Liberal party 1 * is aMicted with chronic ab-
sentees like Bruce Smith and others, while
the Labor party sticks very consistently to
its job, so Liberalism requires a majority of
about six Representatives to make it reason-
ably safe, while Labor can feel like a boiler-
metal fortress with, a majority of two. This
circumstance makes things none too pleasant
for prospective Prime Minister Cook (assum-
ing that he comes to pass in that capacity).
The great slump of Labor in the House of
Representatives might have been averted save
for the dreary and melancholy sinkage of the
fiscal issue. Victoria, which has a strong
faith in the promotion of Australian indus-
tries, and a strong objection to sweated
labor imports/ weary of the Fisher
Government’s- half-hearted grovelling to the
Tory importer, and fell away badly from the
Fisher cause. The apparent overwhelming
success (later details may alter this apparent
overwhelming success, but at time of writing
it looks very solid’and promising) of Labor
in the Senate is easy of explanation. Six
years ago, Sayers and Chataway and
S’Ledger became Senators for Queensland,
chiefly because Anderson Dawson butted
in as a fourth or independent Labor
candidate, and badly split the Labor
vote This time there are only three
candidates on each side, so the Queens-
land Labor party seems like coming
into its own again. On the other hand,
the Liberal vote for the Senate is split both
in Victoria and South Australia. The Mel-
bourne Argus insisted on booming one Ren-
wick in the foreign shoddy interest, and
though he hasn’t the tenth part of a ghost
of a chance himself, it is possible that he
will take enough votes from the three recog-
nised Liberal candidates to turn their pros-
pect of victory into a certainty of defeat,
and thus let the three Labor candidates in.
And in South Australia the Liberals turned
down Josiah Symon, the most brilliant and
most Degressive .man in their party, because
he wasn’t sufficiently subservient to the party
machine, and Symon, running as a fourth or
independent Liberal, may get enough votes
to wreck the Liberal machine and the three
Liberal machine candidates, and thus trans-
form a very good prospect of victory into
plain, ordinary rout. To put the matter
shortly, Liberalism, so far as the Senate
campaign is concerned, has been the last
possibility in the way of an ass. Another
point which tends to account for the prospec-
tive Labor victory in the Senate, as com-
pared with the prospective Labor defeat in
the House of Representatives (later returns
may upset these hypotheses, but the writer
can only go on the figures available at the
moment), is that Labor has cantured three
of the small States —“small,” that is, so far
as population goes. Queensland, S.A. -and
Westralia have, so far, given a solid “Yes”
on the Referenda, while N.S.W., Victoria and
Tasmania have so far voted “No.” The
members of the House of Representatives are
elected mostly on a population basis, and the
Referenda are conducted on a population
basis, but, as regards the Senate, each State
returns six members, no matter what its
population may be. Thus, on a purely
arithmetical basis, the N.S.W. elector has
one vote for the Senate ; the Victorian has
one vote and an infinitesimal fragment of a
vote; the Queenslander has nearly three
votes; the South Australian has nearly 4J
votes; the Westralian has something ap-
proaching six votes, and the Tasmanian
nearly eight votes. The finer decimals are
left out, but the figures are fairly accurate.
The general result is that six men (one from
each State) command about 23 J Senate
votes. And of these, three men —the three
from Queensland, S.A. and Westralia —com-
mand 13J votes, which is a very solid
majority. Now Labor (on present appear-
ances) has captured these three States, and
even if it couldn’t get a vote in the other
three, which represent a much larger section
of the population (and this is far from being
the case), it could still hold the Senate.
This is why the Liberal party will presently
yell all it knows for Unification and Recon-
struction.
[Written with a full knowledge that later returns
may upset the deductions and calculations, by James
Edmond, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal j ;. “Midsummei Night’s Dream.”
Her Majesty’s. “».ie Count of Luxembourg.”
Criterion ; “Excuse Me.”
Palace “On Our Selection.”
Adelphi “Girl Who Knew a Bit.”
Tivoli Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Little Theatre .“Fanny’s First Play.”
National Amphitheatre Brennan's Vaudeville Co.
Alhambra ... Vaudeville.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric I
Colonial. > Continuous Pictures.
Empress J
Crystal Palace Continuous Pictures, etc.
Olympia West's Pictures.
Town Hall David Bispham.
Imperial Roller Rink. Roller Skating.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Sunshine Girl.”
Princess’s “From Convent to Throne.”
King’s “The Sailor’s Wedding.”
Royal “Within the Law.”
Opera House. . . ~ Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer's Pictures.
Lyric, Prahran Photo Plays.
Majestic. Amalgamated Pictures.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
The Auditorium Tokio Town.
Robert Hughes’ chief excuse for “Excuse
Me,” presented at Sydney Criterion on Sat-
urday, is an idea. He has housed a farce
in a Pullman car. When the curtain rises
all the audience see is a “sleeper,” with one
side made invisible. In the second act all
it sees is the composite car on the same
train, and in the third act it sees the same
Pullman. This deliberate limitation of his
stage has necessarily limited Hughes’ farce;
yet the audience is astonished to see how
cleverly the dramatist has circumvented his
limitations. But the first two acts rather
drag. Only in the third is there any
dramatic action. And the train, that keeps
on starting frbm the prompt side for two
and a half hours, and keeps on arriving at
the O.P. side at 60 miles an hour from 8
p.m. to 10.30 p.m. carries too many pas-
sengers. There are people occupying the
seats in whom the audience cannot take par-
ticular interest, since there are four heroes
and four heroines whose doings demand
attention.
On the overland (direct route) from
Adelaide to Darwin there are Harry
Mallory and his more or less bride, Marjorie
Newton. This pair had eloped, but owing
to the taxi breaking down, there wasn’t
time to have the marriage performed and to
catch their train. As Mallory is a lieu-
tenant from Duntroon Military Col-
lege, on his way to join a transport at
Darwin, he must catch that train ; and his
first inquiry on board is for a clergyman
to hitch them up. It happens there is a
clergyman, but he is having his first holiday
with his wife, and simply by buttoning his
collar in front and donning a red tie he so
effectually disguises himself that he is taken
by. the conductor for a professional
gambler. The train is the sort that doesn’t
stop till it gets to the Macdonnell Ranges.
“THE TAMING OF THE SHREW," AT
SYDNEY ROYAL.
“Am I a Lord?" —Oscar Asche as Chris-
topher Sly.
The eloping couple have left all their per-
sonal luggage behind; and the bridegroom’s
wild efforts to get married furnish the main-
spring of sucli plot as there is. Also on
board are a husband hurrying to Reno, the
celebrated divorce town in the Macdonnell
Ranges; also his wife, on the same quest.
At Katherine Springs, however, the train
takes on two other passengers—a pair of
bushrangers who hold up the travelling
public, and in a business-like way strip
everybody of money and jewellery. But
when Dan Kelly attempts to take Marjorie’s
wedding ring from her finger, Mallory man-
ages to snatch his revolver from him, and
getting behind the helpless brigand, who is
afraid to shoot lest he may shoot Ned. holds
up and disarms the gang. The clergyman,
in the stress off the moment, swears his first
swear, and admits that he is a clergyman.
Mallory orders him to marry them on the
spot. The conductor protests. But Mallory,
in possession of the revolver, severely re-
marks “Excuse me!”
There is plenty of interest, if little
action, in the farce. One sees the passen-
gers finishing their dressing in the morning.
One even sees the men’s dressing-room,
though the door of the ladies’ dressing-room
is shut. In the composite car there is the
men’s smoking compartment, the bar, and
the ladies’ compartment in full view. And
for a fleeting instant there is an outside
view of the sleeping car, the blinds of which
are lifted to show the passengers in their
night-attire, viewing the scenery of the
Northern Territory. Fred Niblo once
again proves' himself a consummate
comedian. His rage and exasperation at the
flirtatious tendencies of his bride-to-be and
her concern over her adored dog are
thoroughly convincing. Miss Beatrice
Terry, though picturesque enough as the
bride, has not the temperamental equipment
to range over the whole octave of emotions
possessed by Marjorie Newton. In the
scene where she attempts to cajole the grim
conductor into stopping the train and
running it slowly backwards 10 miles in
order to pick up her dog she is. delightful;
but she cannot be said to bring out the
dramatist’s conception of the part as* for
instance, Miss Josie Cohan would do. Robert
Grieg is a magnificent “drunk,” but his in-
fantile-! doking wife, Miss Beatrice Hollo-
way, gives too sugary an interpretation of a
vivacious part. That accomplished actor.
Ray Royce, is charming as the reformed
parson. E. Pirie Bush does his best in a
stupid part of an alleged Britisher (made
in America). Frederick Cambourne, as the
black porter, makes all the * requisite points,
but has not the necessary nigger intonation.
The part of the conductor is in the safe
hands of Edwin Lester. If the writer only
knew which of the two bushrangers was the
“First Train Robber” and w r hich was the
“Second Train Robber” he might be able to
say which he likes best ; but he must let it
go by remarking that they relieve the pas-
sengers of their belongings with an expert-
ness that suggests a long apprenticeship in
the flourishing Sydney burglary business.
Of the other woman passengers Miss Enid
Bennett gets this susceptible critic’s enthu-
siastic approbation, though on grounds that
are quite uncritical. On the whole, Robert
Hughes and the company are excused;
The Sydney Repertory Theatre Co. made
a preliminary appearance on Saturday even-
ing at Federation Hall, in Grosvenor-street,
with a clever musical and dramatic enter-
tainment, well attended. Caleb Porter ap-
peared as an entertainer, with a lecture on
Kipling’s w-orks and some fine recitations.
The musical portion of the entertainment
included the performance of Alfred Hill’s
“Marche Funfebre” from his new composi-
tion “Life,” and a ballad, well sung bjy Miss
Boulais, by the. same composer. These en-
tertainments will be continued during the
rehearsals for the first dramatic perform-
ance.
“THE TAMING
OF THE
SHREW," AT
SYDNEY
ROYAL.
Oscar Asche as
Petruchio , the
woman-tamer.
Amid the late blizzard of musical events
was Miss Dorothy Smyth’s pianoforte re-
cital in the King’s Hall, Sydney. The young
student, who leaves for Germany next week
to continue her studies, gave the famous
“Moonlight” sonata (Beethoven) as her
most ambitious effort. Brahms, Chopin,
Liszt, and Rachmaninoff w r ere also contrib-
uting causes in the programme.
& % >fC sjc ' . ’
The corpse will hang over the pulpit at
Sydney Adelphi until Friday night, when
Anderson’s introductory shocker will give
way to “The Girl Who Knew a Bit.” The
title seems vague ; and probably it will turn
out that Anderson’s girl knows more than
that. Most of them do, having heeded the
warning of Mrs. Hemans or Oscar Wilde
or somebody in that famous couplet—
A bit of knowledge is a dangerous thing;
Drink deep, or hold to mother’s apron-string.
** * *
Asta Nielsen, one of the finest of all
cinematograph actresses, is back at West’s
in Sydney, glowing in “The Heart of a
Pierrot.” It is worth seeing, as is anything
that Asta shines in. At the Crystal Palace
(Greater J. D. Williams Co.), the principal
film transports a full-blown bull fight to
George-street from Mexico. Those who
haven’t seen this form of Greasers’ amuse-
ment should go along now. Once will be
enough, and next chance there is the film
may not be so good owing to the bull being
worn out. Even the most intensely Mexican
bull doesn’t last for ever. He becomes
jerked beef.
The crunching of Christians’ bones by
lions at the Roman Emperor’s circus (situ-
ated, pro tem., at Spencer’s Lyceum), con-
tinues to be one of the most popular sources
of amusement to Sydney audiences. If
The Bulletin were asked to suggest to
manager Phil Gell any improvement to
“Quo Vadis,” it would advise the burning
of three well-kerosened Christians on the
stage each evening before the «h,vm ,
This would warm the theatre un°l j tarte( k
things more comfortable these cold nighf ake
*# % *
The Japanese family 0 f enw„-
the National Amphitheatre (Sydnevl T? at
ing taut the nerves of big audiei S keep ‘
nights a week and on Wednesdav D j S „ si *
urday afternoons. There is enoushVvf-iH
the square inch of Jap. to save an 2, t 0
mans electric battery slot account f f s '
months. Some changes to the aim three
programme are threatened as this Z !??
forth to blush upon the Block and Fi? ?°? s
head of the Stalls Editor beinJ
up for the occasion. Dg Polls M
THE SUNSHINE
GIRL? AT HER
MAJESTY'S ,
MELBOURNE.
A BOSHTEN
OF THE
CHORUN.
Bert Bailey and his partners. Julius Grant
and Edmund Duggan, intend to produce
“On Our Selection” in London, in 1915
Meantime, the biggest money-maker in Aus-
tralia is packing the Palace (Sydney)
nightly, and can confidently be relied upon
to do so until next Thursday evening, when
the season will terminate and the show move
on to Melbourne.
** * *
Oscar Asche revived "The Taming of the
Shrew” at Sydney Ro.val on Saturday night
last. The famous old farce went with a
roar and a bang, also a howl, from the in-
duction, which is retained in the Asche
presentment of this play, to the final
scene, where Katherine is shown in
an incredibly tame and affectionate frame of
mind. It is as well, by the way, that
Katherine’s reformation is incredible; else
would there doubtless be some soundly-
flogged husbands of the imitative sort in our
suburbs and elsewhere before the week is
out. What with surf-bathing, golf and out-
door life generally the modern female is a
hopeless proposition to attempt the
force majeure business on. Asche makes up
inimitably as Sly, and he is the most gallant 1
and forceful Petruchio imaginable. Miss
Brayton, as Katherine, is everything that
an expert breaker-in of refractory wives
could desire. The scenery is elaborate and
highly effective for the most part. “A Mid-
summer Night’s Dream” will be staged at
this theatre on Saturday night next.
“Fanny’s First Play” is in its fifth week
at the Little Theatre, Sydney, and still
going strong. To-morrow (Friday) night
bronze medallions of Shakspeare and Goethe
are to be unveiled in the auditorium of the
renovated playhouse by Education Minister
Carmichael. This stirring scene will occur
during one of the intervals, and by
way of rendering the excitement even more
tense, tea, coffee and other refreshments will
be supplied gratis to the intellectuals—and
others —present.
sj: 5*C
At Her Majesty’s, Sydney, “The Count
of Luxembourg” continues to be a delirious
success. The management admits frankly,
in its advts., that the show is “cute,” “de-
lightful.” and “eagerly enjoyed”: also that
it is full- of Gladsome Girls and Proficient
People. Far be it from the ink-smeared
critic to attempt to improve on those
eulogies.
The Kremka Brothers came back to Syd-
ney Tivoli last week-end, and were eccen-
tric and acrobatic as of old, also daring and
skilful, but not at all bigoted. The way
acrobats avoid bigotry is, or should be, a
lesson to all sectarians, and the matinees at
reduced prices afford all a chance of intel-
lectual advancement that it would be a pity
to miss. (It is no good endeavoring to
conceal the fact that the show has not
greatly altered from the deserving enter-
tainment of week. As before, Tiebors
seals, the Bellclairs, and the Four Qs head
the procession ; but a lot of good entertain-
ment follows them.)
Adelaide Literary Theatre secured advice-
regal evening for “The Devil’s Disciple,
is a brilliant little play, showing the
distinct Shaw strains. Dick is a disafiec
American of 1777 —this is a date; it 1
intended to convey to the reader that ne -
all these years of age —and also the p
digal of his family earning his niot
curse and the fear of all the neighbors,
only friend left is Parson Anderson. ,
young wife Judith regards the sinner


ym
■r*
SCHWEPPES*
Lime Juice Cordial
made exclusively from Montserrat Lime Fruit
Juice, by special arrangement with the
proprietors of Montserrat. Montserrat Lime
Fruit Juice is a most refreshing and thirst-
quenching drink. It is soft and palatable to
the palate, so unlike all other Lime Juice.
SCHWEPPES LIMITED,
Purveyors to His Majesty the King.
For All
Seasons
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS.
NABOB BOOT PASTE.
the Waterproof
Boot Polish.
ONE APPLICATION WILL LAST A WEEK, A BRUSH UP
BEING ALL THAT IS NECESSARY IN BETWEEN WHILES.
LEWIS 3t WHITTY, Makers, Melbourne and Sydney.
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED.
Victorian Branch: SO Queen Street, Melbourne. n;** f) , rvMrrv
S. 3. FOWLER, Manager. “ltt 6 King SYDNEY.
FIRE ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE CLASS, Etc.
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Promjt and Equitably G. HOWARD POPE Mana-e/
SYDNEY H. CARY,’ Cnaiman.
’Phone No. 280 Central.
Lancelot Booth, an old stock actor and a journalist
of parts, died last week at Balmain, Sydney, aged
67. He had not appeared upon the stage for many
years.
“Kidnapper”: Why all this Yankee guff about the
alleged “Maxim silencer” pistol used in “Within the
Law” ? As far as the audience can see it is just a
pistol which hasn’t been loaded, and therefore
doesn’t go off, and, for all that the audience cares,
the man who is supposed to be silently murdered
with it might as well be silently stabbed or speech-
lessly clubbed. Any old stage revolver, minus its
blank cartridges, would have just the same dramatic
effect as the alleged novelty wherewith the manage-
ment fires paragraph advts. at the press. Re the fact
that a vase on a table falls shattered when Forger
Joe (E. W. Morrison) draws the aforesaid “gun” on
it—well, the audience would like to know what be-
comes of the supposed bullet after it has killed the
vase.
Clara Butt has officiated at two house-warmings
since she came to Australia this time. She gave the
inaugural concert at the Melbourne Auditorium, and
a few nights later she sang to the first audience at
the new theatre in Geelong.
Mary Conly starts her concert tour, this time with
a bouquet of coincidences in hand. The first concert
is booked for June 9—the King’s Birthday holiday—
at Melb. Town Hall. It is the anniversary of her
own birthday and her husband’s, and of the day
they celebrated by getting married some years ago.
If that doesn’t bring luck to the tour, theatrical
superstition had better dry up.
FROM A MUMMER IN BED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
111, ill —
Out of the bill;
Made a bad contract —
Contracted a chill 1
Chill, chill-
Potion and pill 1
Doctor is “starring”—
Takes “calls” when he will 1
Will, will —
Mine is just nil;
Too much “repose” in
The r6le I now fill.
Fill, fill
“Tablespoons” till
(Like rival mummers)
My “wheezes” they kill.
Kill, kill —
Syrup of squill 1
(“Squills” is the word, but
That word would rhyme ill!)
111, ill—
Out of the bill
Made a bad contract —
Contracted a chill !
victoria.
EARDLEY TURNER.
fascinated horror. As the two young people
sit at tea, uncomfortably sparring—the par-
son has been called away—they look like a
domestic couple, and the British soldiers
think so on arriving to hang Anderson with
a view to terrifying the district rebels.
Dick does the Sydney Carton trick, and
Anderson’s sole idea on hearing of the mis-
take is to get a swift horse and reach the
American camp. So far, Shaw is a supreme
craftsman on fairly ordinary lines, but now
the play goes to pieces, not in the idea,
which is steadily worked out, but in treat-
ment. One imagines that he had been
away for a holiday—presumably with
W. S. Gilbert —and came back in high
spirits to polish off his job. The British
General Burgoyne takes the stage—a cross
between the Mikado (“The hanging will be
at noon. Will that hour be suitable to
you?”) and the modern Major-General,
flinging fierce jokes at the War office, mis-
managed by incompetent aristocrats. He
actually persuades Dick, who wanted a
soldier’s death, to be hanged, because the
British soldier could not possibly shoot
straight. The court-martial is a scream, the
scene on the gallows a roar. In between
the laughs, Judith comes. Her husband has,
she believes, proved a coward; let Dick save
himself, and she is his. But he tells her
that men do the foolish kind of thing he is
doing to please something within themselves,
not with an eye to women’s favors. At the
eleventh hour, or rather about 11.59, Ander-
son arrives in command of an overwhelming
force, and the rope is removed from the neck
of Dick, who realises that he has merely
done a theatrical thing, while the other man
had the sense to do the practical. The scene
closes on Burgoyne cheerfully inviting
everybody to lunch (did they lunch at 1.30
in 1777?), and a wild Gilbertian suggestion
from Anderson that, now he has turned
soldier, Dick can occupy his pulpit. Wil-
frid Neill as the scapegrace, Ray Walsh as
Anderson, and Vandome as the general were
all at their best, and some fine work was
done by others in small parts. Mrs. Van-
dome, as Judith, did creditably in a part
that is at present a bit beyond her range.
** * *
“Milestones” still runs its successful
course at Adelaide Royal. It is one of those
rare plays that make spectators feel they
know the characters personally. The act-
ing is just as it should be —simple and
natural. Possibly the aged people in the
last act are a trifle too doddering ; but one
remembers that Archibald Marshall declared
70 in England to be fully as ancient as 80 in
Australia. It is a fine, all-round cast. The
Tivoli programme is much as before, plus
the qugint Welshman, Sydney Bach, and
“Cummin and Seaham,” whose name is a
jest in itself —and everybody is doing it. The
King’s has said good-bye to the Olracs and
Gloria Mayne of the voice, and has a sort
of fresh deal with the Heraldos, Kelly and
Miss Wilder, and the athletic Meredith and
Adnil. The picture-shows have the usual
drama, and the highly effective local parade
of about 6000 cadets. Wondergraph shows
some Indian fighting, West’s a motor-car and
flying race, and the little all-day Pav. has
rushed to the front with some fine Dread-
nought films. Concerts are everywhere:
University Conservatorium. Heinicke’s or-
chestra, Liedertafel, Orpheus (its 25th
birthday), Lyric, and welcomes to Miss
Bruggemann and Hilda Felstead (con-
tralto), just back from Europe.
Fisher , O' Malley and a certain old lady on
stage. Three dastardly impersonations ,
[If this is political the artist’s business address is, The
Bulletin Office, 369 Collins-street, Melbourne.]
Given a large floating flunkey population
to cater for, the present Marlowdrama at
Melbourne Princess’s might run three
months. The characters in “From Convent
to Throne” are mostly persons of royal
blood, or officers in eternal uniform, some
of these latter being true to the reigning
monarch, whilst others are traitors to the
throne. Any minor characters of less ex-
alted rank are also divided into devoted
loyalists on the one hand, and black-hearted
plotters against the Lord’s Anointed on the
other, and much of their time is spent in
providing pomp and circumstance (of a
sort) for her Majesty the Queen or his
Highness the Prince. In fact, this amazing
piecfe of stagecraft is freighted with a full
cargo of crowns, orbs and sceptres. The
royal standard of Danubia flutters at the
helm as it ploughs a stormy sea of grovel,
and the ultimate downfall of the perfidious
I rime Minister sends a thrill of satisfaction
through the palace butler’s pantry. The
irony of fate doomed the first Melbourne
performance of “From Convent to Throne”
to appear on the night of another victory
for the Labor party, whereas it ought to have
been a feature of the Court rejoicings re
the coronation of Joseph Cook.
[N.B.—Later returns cast a doubt on the complete
victory of the Labor party, and the last sentence in
the above arrangements of remarks is, therefore, par-
tially withdrawn. Also, to avoid ill-feeling and possi-
ble contravention of the Act, the writer is hereby
declared as Edmund Fisher, The Bulletin Office,
369 Collins-street, Melbourne. The notice will now
resume. ]
In a drama wherein absurdity glories in
gold lace and the dialogue falls ignomini-
ously off its stilts at the close of every long
sentence, the quality of the acting doesn’t
matter much. But it matters a little. Gen-
erally speaking, the performance is obvi-
ously crude. George Cross escapes from
several ridiculous situations without much
loss of heroic dignity, but his declamatory
father, the Commander-in-Chief of the in-
DAVID
BISPHAM, the
American
singing actor ,
at Sydney
Town Hall
visible army, who refers to the Prime Min-
ister as a liar, talks with full steam on all
the time, whilst the Danubian traitors,
headed by T. W. Lloyd, scowl much too
loudly as a rule. Miss Florence Gleeson is
sadly inadequate in her triple capacity of
convent girl, queen and field-hospital nurse.
Miss Soper has a very limited conception of
a soubrette’s duties to bellowdrama, but
Miss Macqonald, as a bugler boy, deserves
some credit for thwarting the villain’s pur-
pose when he is about to make George Cross
bleed to death. The scenery, by J. S. Mann,
is mostly marble halls and hungry-looking
palaces, but the opening set —in the Forest
of Blitz—shows a stage thickly strewn with
autumn leaves, whilst the trees are with
verdure clad.
** * *
“The Sunshine Girl” is doing her best to
add to the gaiety of Melbourne at Her
Majesty’s, although her lines are cast in
familiar places, and her music has no bite
in it. Perhaps the gladdest incident in a
hard-working show is Cannot’s monologue
with the dumb footman, and certainly the
saddest is the apparition of three or four
males of the co. as burlesque ballet dancers.
Which antique fooling might very well have
been reserved for the next charity matinee.
** * *
At the Melbourne Royal the bulls are still
put to confusion by the crooks who crook
“Within the Law,” blackmailing being a
strictly legal business in New York, it
seems. Also, a stool pigeon, or somebody,
is copping the copper’s kale, and the heroine
is copping the young stiff who didn’t believe
she was loaded till he found her with nothing
on her character at the scene of the frame
up. “Within the Law” will not need to
blow the joint and majke way for a piece
of change for some weeks to come. The
critic’s task is dead easy as regards the
Royal just now. He drops in just before
closing time, to satisfy himself that the
usual bulls and dips are on the job, and
when the leading frail falls weepin’ on the
dickey-dirt of her fancy stiff, and puts her
false alarms around his bloomin’ neck, and
gazes into his mince pies, he (the critic)
mutters “Good-night, nurse,” and makes a
get away with a highball in view. The one
thing wanting in the foregoing burst of elo-
quence is the proper lingo term for bloomin’
neck. “Bloomin’ neck” sounds very ama-
teurish.
* * * *
Yet another Clara Butt concert has been
added to the series, and this absolutely last
appearance in Melbourne of the tall, melo-
dious lady is dated to-night (Thursday).
Then the Auditorium will take on a new
character for a short season. Friday night
is reserved for Professor Spencer’s lecture
on “The Northern Territory,” and on Satur-
day the Japanese acrobats, jugglers, bal-
ancers, sword-walkers, etc. (30 in all), will
be staged in their “Tokio Town” entertain-
ment. A lot of water has flowed gently
under Princes Bridge since Melbourne last
saw a large and varied assortment of Jap
vaudeville turns. “Tokio Town” will give
the present generation" its first experience
of two little brown, bare feet climbing a
ladder of naked sword edges, which is always
a matter of painful interest.
Melbourne Town Hall, having recovered
from the Auditorium shock, will be open
again for concert purposes on Monday next,
at the instance of Faulkner Smith. Mary
Conly heads the bill, supported by Maggie
Stirling, Natalie Dawson, tenor Goldspink,
Hattenbach, and Olive Roger, a new con-
tralto. _ With six soloists, a “drawing-room
entertainer,” a male quartette, and popular
prices, as inducements to be present, the
Town Hall should get a crowd.
* * * *
“Wheat and Tares,” which fopnd a tem-
porary home at Melbourne Majestic last
week, is one of those dramas of Love, Jeal-
ousy and Giddy Possibility wherein a look
is as eloquent as the spoken word. One
Charles Vallier is the potential Don Juan,
and the efforts that he makes to twine him-
self around the affections of a Mrs. De
Lacey implies that he is an old-established
boa-constrictor in a large practice. For-
tunately his wiles and innuendoes are wasted
on a lady so hopelessly respectable as Mrs.
De L., and he has finally to retire, a disap-
pointed rake who has gathered no hay. “The
Soul of Jem Grant” was the other lengthy
attraction, and the beautiful impulses that
1000 ft. of film revealed in Jem’s being were
enough to equip ten Wowsers for a life-
time.
At West’s Melbourne Palace, Nero con-
tinues on the gaudy road that leads to an
early death, while the lions still dine on the
Christians, with a disfavor suggesting that
they are on the brink of conversion to the
faith of the vegetarians. “Quo Vadis” re-
mains the rage at the West address, and the
rain of coin is so great at both the matinee
and evening shows, that manager Scott is
suffering from treasurer’s cramp and paraly-
sis of the arithmetic.
s£ He #
O-Hana-San and Co. are now at the Opera
House, presenting a melange of geisha danc-
ing and singing against a series of Nippon-
ese backgrounds. The act, wherein four
or five ladies appear singly or in groups, is
more than passable, though the pleased sur-
prise aroused by the Jap business in the
beginning droops and finally wilts when the
turn lapses into a nondescript procession of
colored designs, hurled on to a feminine
figure by lantern light. De Mario is still
revealing his rubber spine and other flexible
belongings, and Arthur Douglas continues
his weak imitation of Harry Lauder. The
Jacksons and the Banvards are as enter-
taining as before, and the whimsical Tom
Dawson has unloaded another comic song.
It arrived in good order and repair, and the
truck didn’t break down.
sjc sjc jJc •!•
“The Sailor’s Wedding” has replaced
“Life’s Shop Window” at Melbourne King’s,
and Olive Wilton, who was the ill-used
Lydia of the latter disturbance, is now a
lurid Lenore with a past as warm as her
scarlet thatch. Criticism could demand no
more of Olive in the part. She is devilish,
haughty, and beguiling by turns, and gets
the right influx of terror into her howls
when Giacomo, the mad Dago, spills her
blud. Giacomo, of course, is the jilted sport
of Fate and the naughty Lenore, and it is
his mission to defy the former and pursue
the latter, with a sneer for the one and a
flittering dagger for the other. Temple
larrison enacts this evil person in the lazy
manner of an adipose sprite, and his imper-
sonation is further marred by an inability
to foam with fury on the slightest provoca-
tion. He ought to chew soap in order to
make a froth. Lenore’s accomplice in
espionage, abduction and similar pleas-
antries is Giovanni Ferici, whose life his-
tory, as conveyed by Rutland Beckett, is a
tremendous flute solo all the time. Ferici
is the busy miscreant who purloins Mary
Bellini, of powerful lineage, and blinds the
eyes of Lieutenant Drake, the noble
Bellini’s best and most superior and tre-
mendous boy. Miss Erris tries the unac-
customed role of Mary with all of her voice
and a bit of her soul, and Max Clifton is
the jeune premier, who portrays Mary’s
little lamb. He is the usual hero who unites
hidebound stupidity with a gentlemanly
bearing. The two Bellinis, whose lives are
darkened by the shadow of a throne, are in
the hands of Charlie Taylor and Miss Helen
Fergus; while Tom Cannam is the purpose-
less johnny who flourishes a revolver so
willingly at the last.
“0.K.” : One of the happiest little touches of satire in
“Milestones” rarely gets even a smile from the
audience. In the second act, Lord Monkhurst re-
marks to the maiden aunt, apropos to something he
has done or said, that he has “turned her flank.”
To which' the outraged spinster, dropping her voice
to a “Im-sure-I-don't-know-what-you-mean” tone of
feminine reproof, exclaims, “Turned my flank 1” as
though to intimate that the chuckling Monkhurst
ought to be ashamed of himself for speaking freely
of her anatomy. He, being a well-bred chuckler,
coughs apologetically and drops the subject, leaving
the prude to her misunderstanding of the military
figure of speech. A more blundering ass would have
explained that the flank he was referring to was not
the flank she was thinking of. For that matter Ned
Monkhurst does blunder asininely when he says
“I’m sure you did your best” to the matron (Mrs.
John Rhead), who regrets she has not given her
husband a son to inherit his baronetcy. But the
author can be excused for stretching the long arm
of possibility beyond the limit of probability in that
case.
After every election of recent years
Liberal leaders and the Liberal papers hare
laid themselves out to prove that the merest
trivialities were responsible for the over-
throw of the cause. Sydney Telegraph, for
example, provided the customary batch on
last Monday. Some samples :
(1) Mr. Graham (Minister for Agriculture, Vic.)
remarked that, in his opinion, the weather conditions
had told heavily in favor of the Labor party, and had
reduced the effect of the Liberal polling. On the
figures available, he was convinced that the Liberal
vote in the country had been diminished bv the
torrential rain and the gale to the ,extent of fully 10
p.c. 9
Put otherwise, a large number of Liberals
don’t think enough of Liberalism to vote
for it in the wet.
(2) The fact is that not one-half of the electors knew
what division they were in, nor the proper place -to
vote.— J. H. Carruthers.
(2a) Liberalism is to blame for its lack of organis-
ing capacity.— lbid.
Both of which amounted merely to reflec-
tions on the intelligence of the electors. The
principles at issue were not taken into
account.
(3) The abolition of the postal vote was a severe
blow to Liberalism.-— The daily press in every State.
In other words, more Liberals are cripples
and invalids than Laborites; and the ailing
Laborites have better facilities for being
carried to the polls than the sick Liberals.
(4) In Victoria, the raising of the fiscal question has
been responsible, to a large extent, for the failure of
the Liberal party to poll up to expectations.—Syd-
ney Telegraph’s Victorian correspondent.
So Conservative Protectionists disregarded
the warnings of the Age and voted for
Socialists in the hope that their businesses
might get tariff assistance as a preliminary
to being confiscated.
(5) There was an old Scotch remark, “It’s the
de’il’s bairns for luck.” Well, it struck him that the
proverb had a special application to the luck of the
Labor party.— G. Grahaaj, M.L.A., Vic.
Thus the Labor party had an unfair
amount of help from the infernal regions.
Childish excuses such as the above, which
are regularly forthcoming at each election,
probably do Liberalism more harm than
good. The things that have been defeating
the cause for the past six years are its in-
capacity to move with the times; its habit
of standing blindly in the way of one greatly-
needed reform after the other, and having
in the end to be absolutely dynamited out
of the path in the interests of progress; and
its tragic gift of acquiring incompetent
leaders.
[John Bede Dallet, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]


\
D.J. Guinea Rug'
LEADS FOR VALUE. =
For 21/- the D.J. Woollen Rugs are indeed Rugs of
more than usual quality—well woven, of Pure Australian
Wool throughout, soft, fleecy and durable. They are
60 x 80 inches in size, and weigh approximately 51b.
The designs are a revelation in beauty of coloring and
tone, equal to any Rug at double the price. They are in
light and Dark Fawn shades, Green and Blue Grounds
(as illustration), with different colored Bars. Also,
Murray reversed with Forbes ; or Mackenzie reversed with
Black Watch Tartans. The D.J. Guinea Rug is a good
sound Rug for service, as well as possessing a smart
appearance. Being of ample size, it is Invaluable for
Winter Travelling. Again, we cannot help impressing
upon you that it is remarkable Value for ...... 21/-
DAVID JONES PAY CARRIAGE.
21|-
DAVID JONES LTD
Opp. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Gargoyle Mobiloils
are always sold at a good Garage.
For the garage man who has the
interests of his customers at heart
gives them the best of everything
regardless of profit or price
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty. Ltd.
SOCIETY
Judge Gurner, of Victoria, had two pris-
oners before him one day last week. No. 1
was convicted of stealing a bottle of whisky
from the railway goods yard. He had con-
sumed the liquor, not sold it, and he had
never previously been in trouble. His Honor
gave him 15 months’ hard labor. No. 2 had
been found guilty of stealing some nails from
a wharf; the bag from which they were taken
was found cut open. He was not exactlj’ a
first offender; in fact, his sentences had con-
sumed 15 years in all out of the last 28, and
included breaking and entering, larceny, as-
sault with intent to rob, more larceny,
attempted shop-breaking, assault, bogus
coin, further larceny, another specimen of
larceny, and plain assault. Moreover, on
being committed for this last offence, and
being admitted to bail, he absconded, where-
upon his bondswoman was £5O the poorer.
Nevertheless, Judge Gurner set him free on
his own recognizances. The men were the
same age, and much the same height and
build, and stealing from the wharves is just
as rife as stealing from the railways. Pos-
sibly the fact that the first offender had a
lawyer to speak for him, while the other
spoke for himself, accounted for the discrep-
ancy ; or it may have been that the latter
wore a soft shirt and a cheerful countenance;
or it may have been just luck. On the face
of it, it looks like luck. Possibly his
Honor keeps a box or lucky bag full of sen-
tences, and takes a dip.
According to Ivnibbs, who need no longer
be introduced as the Commonwealth’s Statis-
tion, a sovereign falls down exhausted in a
shorter time at Kalgoorlie than at any other
sizeable town in Australia. If Mrs.
McPike had sent Gwendoline out in the
morning, on any average day in January,
February or March, with 1434 sovereigns in
her little hand, and told her to buy groceries
and other food, she wouldn’t have got more
for her money than if she had been supplied
with only 931 sovereigns in Melbourne.
Leaving Westralian towns out of the count,
Broken Hill gives you less for your money
than any other place, and Toowoomba (Q.)
and Mount Gambier (S.A.) give you most.
Among the State capitals Melbourne and
Brisbane are the cities of the small food-
bills ; at either place the McPike child could
get for 931 ha’pennies what she would have
to pay 1009 for in Adelaide, 1021 in Sydney,
1041 in Hobart, and 1146 in Perth. The
rent fiend is far more ravenous in Sydney,
though, than anywhere else. If, say, a dozen
people paid £7lB in Broken Hill for a year’s
rent, they would pay £1234 in Sydney, which
makes it look as though the total cost of liv-
ing—food and rent combined —-is greater in
Sydney than in the dusty place with the
tremendous output of silver and lead and
foolish strikes. But as a matter of fact the
comparison isn’t all it might be, because,
while the Sydney missus would want a
Princess Anne cottage that cost £9OO if her
husband earned 15s. a day, many a Broken
Hill miner who earns more than that pigs
in a two-roomed tin humpy that was a
robbery when it cost £BO. For much the
same reason —because the buildings are
cheap and flimsy the rents are low —Bris-
bane is easily the cheapest capital city to
live in, on the dead reckoning of Knibbs’s
figures, and Sydney is several points dearer
than Perth, which is the second-worst.
A stolid sample of the bucolic intellect
came before Justice Hood in the Vic.
Divorce Court lately. It appeared that the
stolid petitioner, when aged 63, married a
woman of 30 —Balzac’s dangerous age—and
dwelt with her placidly for two years or
so. Then, one night, when she returned
from shopping at the neighboring township,
he heard a vehicle stop, and, going out, dis-
covered the”lady and a neighboring farmer
in the midst of friendly conversation. He
straightway returned to the house, got his
gun and fired at them a couple of times;
but the weapon missed, so he went inside
again and said nothing beyond assuring the
lady that she was lucky not to be a corpse.
They then continued to dwell together on
THE MALE HORROR.
G IRLIE: “ Don’t you think the fashions in
boys clothes are getting positively ridicu-
lous?”
more or less friendly terms till one day he
came home and observed the same farmer
leaving his wife’s bedroom, whereupon he
assured him that if he found him doing it'
again he would shoot him, provided the gun
didn’t miss. After tßat the lady seems to
have wearied of her hubby’s long-sufferance,
for she drew £2OO out, of his bank account,
sold his horses and implements and “cleared
him right out,” She also cleared herself
right out and went to keep house for the
other farmer. There was a certain bucolic
stolidity about her, as she appeared in court
to prove service of the divorce papers, and
cheerfully admitted things concerning the
child in her arms. Decree nisi, of course,
with a tearing gale of costs.
* * * *
It is interesting to know, on the authority
of the Rev. F. C. Spurr (Melb.), that the
time never was ripe. Said the Spurr-to-
smite, in tfie course of a recent Collins-street
Baptist address: “Rational writers have
charged Christ with omitting to deal with
the evils of war, slavery, and the degradation
of women. But Jesus knew the time was
not ripe for a pronouncement on these sub-
jects.” Surely that is the thinnest story
on record! Doesn’t the Omnipotent own the
time, and can’t He ripen it when He pleases?
AS OTHERS SEE US.
MISS C OCKY (to Billjim who has returned
from a trip): “I s'pose all the gals an
men are well-dressed in Sydney?”
B ILLJIM: “ Well , so so; but they haven't larnt
manners—they tork at meals!"
“Pontius Potter”: Hobart proposes to
wake up shortly, kick itself in the midriff
and get a hustle on. Dr. Purdy, who is the
Speck’s medical officer and the most volatile
inhabitant of the island, is the propounder
of a scheme to raise the murderer of Abel.
He proposes to wipe out the too-frequent
city hovels, establish public
baths to revive the old cus-
tum of washing all over at
once, to substitute a garbage
destructor for the noisome
rubbish tips, to abolish the
ancient graveyards and make
parks out of them, to root
up the prehistoric cobble
gutters, and to do whole
rows of other improvements.
He thinks the job could be
finished in seven years, and
suggests holding a Grand
Exhibition in the year 1920
to advertise the fact to the
world, globe or planet. The
idea is slowly taking hold
of the city ancestors, so
there is some hope for the
old city that is crumpled up
between Mount Wellington
and the Derwent.
It was about time the irresponsible damsel
with the improper narrative was heard from
once more, and last week a Collingwood
(Vic.) heroine stepped into the breach. She
had evidently been studying recent Wowsery
statements as to Melbourne’s alleged white-
slave traffic, and, finding it necessary to ex-
cuse herself for staying out late one even-
ing, she invented a circumstantial story of
how she had been walking placidly homewards
about 5 p.m., when a man had swiftly placed
a handkerchief over her mouth, snatched her
into a house adjacent, and there forcibly de-
tained her till 9.30 p.m., when she escaped
by stratagem. She was much upset over
the episode, so the police were called in and
told to arrest the ruffian instantly’. She
gave them complete details of what had be-
fallen her —of the appearance of the villain,
the surroundings of the house, nature of its
furniture, and , so forth. But a doctor
promptly contradicted the personal part of
her yarn, and that was the beginning of the
end. She took the law to the exact locality
of the outrage, but utterly failed to find the
house depicted in her narrative. Finally, she
broke down, and owned that the whole thing
was an invention, which she put forth
to escape maternal wrath for exceeding the
time limit. The maternal wrath is under-
stood to have broken forth with extra vigor
—which is satisfactory as far as it goes,
though this paper has doubts whether mater-
nal wrath is likely to go far enough, even in
its most vigorous moments.
v “ Me J” • Remember
I'-dgar 1 oe s tale of the
stolen document which
the whole detective
\° rce cannot find
simply because no ef-
fort is made to conceal
, A he aristocratic
thief is stopped over
and over again by at
leged footpads, and
searched. H i B a
rants are made drunk
in his absence' and his
?™ eS a / e vainly
laked and dredged
f ™ m T , end to the
other. And meanwhile
a dirty bit of p a p e i
torn half across and
shoved into a disrepu-
table old letter rack
escapes notice by rea-
son of its publicity
lts
Melbourne has had a
Parallel case. Camp-
belton was arrested on
a. charge of stealing «
J h , e . detectives
(lulnt find it because
it was in his mouth
in the course of his
search he took it out
of his mouth and put
R in a pigeon-hole in
the tec office. He was
convicted on another
charge and went to
gaol, leaving the ring
in the office. Then he
laughed fit to burst in
his cell over the joke.
U hen he felt that he
couIdn t laue-h any
more without bursting
he told the story in
order to save his life,
and the ring was
found If it had been a prigged elephant it
would probably have been found in lust the
same fashion.
THE FALL OF MAN.
PERCY DE VERE FITZ’ NOODLE: “Oh, y[?],
we're fearfully well connected, yer know.
The pater's people came over with the Con-
queror. The mater s descended from the
Needys of Buckinghamshire; and, in loot,
I’m a direct descendant of Richard I."
PANSY PERT: “My word, you have been
descending a long time. You must
nearly there by now."
LAY OF A LADY HELP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sir, —I hail with delight Mr. Hagelthorn’s idea of
encouraging educated women to come to Australia
as “helps.” As one who has suffered for many
years at the hands of the Australian “lady helps,” I
can quite endorse Mr. Hagelthorn’s remarks. The
person calling herself “lady help” in Australia in
most cases is impossible, either as lady or as help.
Often a general, who tires of her calling, decides to
take up the “lady-help” role, and by shedding her
string of pearls, etc., attires herself in more subdued
tones, adopting a manner in accordance with her rai-
ment, and applies for the position. If the mistress
is in extremis, she engages this recruit from the
ranks of “general,” and until, through the kindly
office of a friend, who has, perhaps, had her in the
former capacity, she is treated as one of the family.
—A Sufferer, in the Argus.
“We treated her as though she were
One of the family.
She had her meals with us, except
When we had company ;
And though her wages Were not high,
We always called her “Miss McKie.”
“She’ll have to travel far, my dear,
To get another place
As easy. Yes, her conduct was
A positive disgrace!
But something always comes to pass
When you raise people from their class!
“Although we kept no ‘general,’
The household work was light,
And she was always finished by,
Say, eight o’clock each night.
My dear, she was quite free from then
Till supper time, at half-past ten !
“I never overworked her; I
Myself, arranged the flowers
For dinner. When spring cleaning came,
I used to work for hours!
Some nights my lady took her ease
While 1 sat sewing, if you please!
“And then I gave her things of mine.
You recollect my brown —
The tussore . silk ?—I gave her that;
Also a dressing-gown
I’d had for years. ’Twas wrong, I own,
To treat her so. I might have known.
“My kindness she has now repaid—
I’m sure they’re all the same !
But still, when one unbends to them—
It really is a shame!
You know, she called me ‘Mrs. Strum’—
I never did insist on ‘Mum’!
“And more than once when Herbert had
‘Briefs’ for a picture show,
He gave her one! So she could not
Complain her life was slow!
I never dreamt that things were wrong;
Yet she’d deceived us all along!
“We came to hear the truth, at last,
Through Mrs. Whitcombe-Russ:
The girl had been a “general”
Before she came to us!
Yet at our table did she sit!
I shiver when I think of it!
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.
THE GIFT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Presbyterian Assembly learned with satisfac-
tion that its missionary, Mr. E. C. C. Ettman, had
distributed 300 Bibles among the Jews of Melbourne
The Jewish mission is understood to be progressing
favorably. —Daily payer.
’Twas liddle Shemmy Ithackthon,
A preddy poy mit thloe-plack eyeth,
Who to his fader home did run,
A Biple mit—a splentit prith.
“Thee, thee, dear fader—look,’’ thaid he,
“Vot dot good Shickser giff to me!”
His fader take der pook avay,
Und look id oafer for a vile.
No lonker round his eyeth dere play
Dot thweed, appreciatif thmile.
“Dot’s goot, my poy,” he say to Sheni,
“But is der any sale for dem?”
VICTORIA.
MO.


®sr
®-U
©JO 1
©V
&
©O’
!
V\*
QQG3
j*>.
O.T. Improves all Drinks just
as Sauces Improve Food,
Wild’s Hairdressing Rooms, 30 Upstairs,
Sydney Arcade, George and King Streets, Sydney, i.s
the proper place to go if you want the best of atten-
tion. Electric head and face massage done in the
latest American style. Hours of business: 8.30 to
6.30; Saturday close at 1 o'clock.*
3
'lt
awjQii
jjj
WARM CEYLON SHIRTS
—Excellent for Winter Wear.
During- the cold season, when ample protection for the body
becomes a necessity, our latest winter-weight Ceylon Flannel
Shirts prove ideal. They accord in every respect with fashion —
the neatest stripe effects and refined colorings being typified
in each shirt.
They are made with turned-back or band cuffs and detachable
soft collars.
The designs this season are exclusive and very refined- —many
fine effects having been produced in light and dark grounds,
with neat stripes.
Price
7|6.
Postage 3d
Please state collar size, and color preferred, when ordering.
Men’s Wear Catalogue on request.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 8 311 George Street, SYDNEY.
“Hamer’ sends this. (The Bulletin,
being much anguished and rendered bald by
the rush of election matter, has forgotten
whether it printed the story before or Dot,
but it puts it in on spec.) :
A couple of Sydney jewellery firms got the shock
of their lives the other day. A carefully-dressed
stranger called on Firm No. 1 and asked for a
“really good watch.” He got one—for £9O. He
offered a cheque, and on the traders’ showing symp-
toms of agitation and a distinct inclination to de-
mand the watch back, or, that failing, retrieve it by
brute force, he referred them to his hotel and to
others who were able to testify to his solvency, not
to say affluence. The next thing that happened was
a ’phone message from Firm No. 2, to say that 11
splendidly-attired stranger was trying to sell one of
their £9O watches for £2O. Excursions and
alarums, followed by the incarcerating of the beauti-
fully clothed one in an iron safe and the hurried
arrival of the police. At this stage the stunning
discovery was made that the £9O cheque had been
honored. Whereupon the sleuths withdrew as grace-
fully as they could, and the jewellers wilted miser-
ably beneath a storm of threats about damages for
injured reputation and illegal arrest. It appeared
that after buying the trinket the stranger had real-
ised that he didn’t want it, after all, and was unite
willing to drop £7O on the deal. The unspoken
reply of the jewellers was that lunatics of his sort
should not be encouraged by the law.
* * » »
A strange point about faith is that it is
seldom complete. There are bald spots and
hairless patches on it, and holes through
which the wind or doubt blows coldly
Thus a miserable girl died recently in an
obscure corner of Queensland through pneu-
monia—aided, or possibly retarded, by faith
healing. The patient’s father, mother and
brother “didn’t believe in doctors or medi-
cine ; the Bible had always been their doc-
tor.” They regarded prayer as a solid in-
stitution in cases of illness. Yet they put
the unfortunate girl to bed, nursed her to
the best of their crude ability, and treated
her with hot fomentations and hot onions.
So apparently they believed in prayer aided
by medicaments in the way of fomentations
and hot onions, but not in prayer aided by
an expert doctor’s prescriptions. They had
enough belief to let supplication struggle
through without doctors’ medicine, which is
sometimes costly, but not enough to let it
struggle through without cheap garden
stuff. These quaint believers pin their faith
to certain pronouncements in the Book of
James, which apostle says that the sick
should be prayed for by the elders of the
church and anointed with oil. But the
apostle doesn’t even mention onions, nor
does the newspaper report mention the
elders of the church or the oil. It is a
curious business all through.
It is announced with pride that the
N.S.W. Public Works Committee has re-
ported in favor of a bridge rather than a
tunnel between Sydney and North Shore,
and that everything is settled at last —
except the job of persuading a badly-
bursted money market to put up the funds.
Of course the bridge was almost a foregone
conclusion. There is a hill on each side, so
the approaches to the bridge are already
constructed. To make a tunnel it would be
necessary to start about the middle of
BIRDS OF A FEATHER.
Gentlemen's hats, trimmed with an ostrich feather,
are the latest thing in woman’s millinery.
Sydney shops are displaying men’s hats with
feather ornaments —News items.
CHARLES: “Great Casar, auntie, have von
borrowed uncle's tile?”
A UNTIE ( cuttingly): “No, Charles. Have
you borrowed your wife’s?”
Sydney on one side and about the edge of
Middle Harbor on the other, unless people
went; down a pit in a cage in order to
reach either end of the tunnel. So every-
thing is plain and clear—except the money,
as already mentioned. A.nd the bearded
gho@t of Henry Parkes will stand on the
structure at midnight—when the cash is
borrowed and there is a structure—and say
sadly to Stella and Bagged Jane,: “This
was my horiginal hidea. Hi did it.”
A PERTINENT QUERY.
SUNDAY SCHOOL TEACHER: “And it rained for 40 days and 40 nights.”
SMART L AD: “An’ was the cookies satisfied then?”
“Hamer”: The daily papers dredged up
one William Jones, the other day, and repre-
sented him as doing his eight hours’ toil daily,
at the age of 90. Somehow I have my doubts as
regards old William. There is nothing about
which certain people are both vainer and
vaguer than the question of their years.
It is quite possible, for instance, for six
generations of, say, John
Smiths to be born within
a century In 1913
the John Smith who
was born in 1834, and
has just become a great-
grandfather, may, in his
increasing pride of years,
begin to imagine that he
must be the John Smith
who was born in 1813,
and that he is therefore
due for his centenary
celebrations. If he has
the birth certificate of
the 1813 John Smith
in his possession, as he
probably has, and gets
such an idea into his
time-blasted head, it
won’t take him long to
convince himself that he
is bis own father. Far-
fetched, do I hear you
murmur? Yet not more
so than the yarn that a
man can still be found
swinging the axe, or what not, for 48 hours
per week, after passing the 90-mile mark.
S.A. Supreme Court was astonished last
week by an application from a lady to be
joined as co-respondent in a divorce suit.
It seemed an odd fancy, at first sight; but
counsel explained that she was already
named in the pleadings as the guilty party,
while, not being summoned as co-re., she
could not be formally represented and prove
her in-no-cence. So the Court decided that,
if there was no precedent, it would make
one. and her request was allowed.
* * * *
Advertisement from a recent S. M.
Herald :—•
FOR SALE, 225 Interesting Views of China, in-
cluding a few of an execution and a strangulation,
taken by the seller, sd. each. This is at less than
cost.
A view of a strangulation for 5d.! Nobody
should expect to get high-class amusement
cheaper than that. - -
Is the alderman of Disunited Sydney civil-
ised, or is he a banshee or something of the
sort? At North Sydney last weels the con-
sent of municipal Bumbledom was asked for
a subdivision by which a back yard was to
be cut off from a house and two new houses
built on it. The result would be three houses
and three backyards—each of the latter
being 4ft. across. And the proposition was
actually approved! By all meahs, let us
have a Greater Sydney. It may lead to a
Greater Backyard, and it assuredly can’t
lead to a smaller one.
* * * *
The supposed lunatic who threatens by
letter the life of Dr. Baton, the N.S.W.
Government medical officer, should be
brought to light forthwith, and be seriously
or humorously dealt with. Perhaps he is
just a polite lunatic (like the wandering
admirer of the Belle of New York) who
sharpens a dagger on his shoe leather and
rejoices in the belief that he “wants to kill
Paton.” The spectacle of Dr. Paton shin-
ning his way up a telegraph pole whilst the
polite one besought him in thin Dutch
tones to “come down and be killed,” would
do the public health a lot of good.
* * * *
J. ,T. Hoare, a revenue detective employed
by the Government in Melbourne, is making
mirth and history. He appeared at the
local city court last week to charge an
Italian (who keeps a wine-shop in an un-
promising district) with illicit gold buying.
He had gone to Mattatia’s shop with some
smelted gold obtained from the police, he
said, and the Dago gave him £1 16s. 6d. for
it in two instalments. Constable Jackman,
another revenue officer, corroborated this
statement, and denied that he was drunk
at the time. But he admitted to having
knocked a hole in the wine-shop wall
with his fist on a previous Saturday.
Then the Dago told his yarn. He said
Hoare did offer some gold for sale,-which
he (Mattatia) refused to touch. Later on
Hoare asked for a £5 loan on the nugget in
order to back a “deada birda” at the races.
The Dago lent him £4 on condition that he
would return the money next day and not
demand any more loans. Then Hoare came
along, saying that the defunct fowl lost the
race and he w r anted another 30s. This time
he got £l. The Dago’s evidence was corro-
borated and the Bench dismissed the case.
So the profession of revenue officering
in Melbourne is under a cloud.
“Lex”- —his story :
What a ridiculous collection of anomalies the
Gaming Laws are in most parts of the world. In
Australia, for example, one is liable to find this sort
of thing in the papers any day
Melbourne, Sunday.—Forty-three detectives and
plain-clothes policemen and uniformed men armed
with the new revolvers supplied to the police force,
made a sudden appearance at a small house at .41
King William-street, Fitzroy, .o-night, and be-ore
the inmates could grasp what had happened, they
were told to consider themselves under arrest. When
they had to some extent recovered their composure,
they were driven in cabs to the Fitzroy police sta-
tion, and locked up, charged with having broken the
gaming laws. An Italian named Frank Bonfigilio
was charged with the more serious offienee of having
conducted a gaming house.”
Quite possibly the magistrate before whom these mis-
creants were dragged next morning had, at about
the same time that they were arrested, been himself
playing auction bridge at one of the big city clubs.
If not, it is at any rate pretty certain that he has
often been present when big money changed hanus
m connection with bridge or poker at such resorts.
What a splendid uproar there would be if the police
burst into the boss club one night, arrested
all the gamesters in the card room and carteu uiuii
in cabs to a lock-up ; and charged the president and
secretary with running a gambling establishment. And
why shouldn’t such a thing happen? The ethical or
other distinction between risking your money in a
high-class club and doing the same thing in “a
small house at Fitzroy” has always been hidden from
me.
London adopts precisely the same unreasoning
attitude. Last week’s files mentioned that one Barry
had got six months for conducting a gaming club in
Fulham. Yet one can name half a dozen West End
clubs of standing that are in every sense of the
term gaming clubs—inasmuch as without gambling
they would have to close down in a bankrupt stale.
in Paris the position is even more absurd. The
authorities are as relentless in their assaults upon
the poorer gamblers as they are in Melbourne or Syd-
ney. t,Yet the so-called social clubs, where high play
is the rule, and where a rich man can ruin himself
in a week if he feels like it, are never annoyed. The
Paris clubs (with a very few exceptions) differ from
those of most English-speaking communities, inas-
much as they are pure gambling hells. Without the
profits they draw from gambling they could not livd
a week. Thus, at the Travellers a member who in-
troduces a guest is, by the rules, liable for the
latter’s misfortunes up to a sum of 5000 francs. Th@
scale rises, as the clubs rise in importance, till one
gets to the Jockey Club, where a member’s liability
for his guests’ losses is unlimited.
Why should the mostly undesirable citizens
who belong to a Tattersall’s Club, say, be
allowed to play poker for high stakes, while the no
more maleficent folks who lean towards two-up are
bounded upon with the Law’s heaviest footwear? The
whole arrangement seems to me, a confirmed non-
gamester, absurd and pointless, and devoid of justice
and reason.
From the Oldest Inhabitant: —
The S. M. Herald recently announced the finding
of the old foundation-stone of the first St. Mary’s-
“Old St. Mary’s”—Cathedral. “On the stone,” it
says, “was a well-preserved brass” which recorded
that the geological specimen “was laid on August
25, 1851, ‘Pius IX. being Pope; Victoria ruling as
Queen over all Britain; Charles A. Fitzroy, Knight,
governing in Our Golden Australia. Whom may God
preserve safe and undisturbed.’ ” This was not the
foundation-stone of old St. Mary’s. That was laid
by Governor Macquarie on October 29, 1821, and
has not been found. The stone just discovered is the
foundation-stone of the additions made 60 odd years
ago. Not a vestige of “Old St. Mary’s”—the St.
Mary’s of Governor Macquarie—now remains.
GOVERNMENT RELIEF.
I SAACS: “Itsh de coot tings Barliament maig
dose POOLETIN pays, py Jove, sign deir
names to deir nonsenses, mit deir attreshes,
I doandt link, EH ? Mine gracious, I
knows vhere to get mine monish now!”


Mr. E. C. Ettmann, a Christian Jew,, who Is a,
jnissionary working in Melbourne among the Jews;
stated that he had succeeded in distributing 300
Bibles among the people of Israel. That fact, to
people who know anything about the Jews, spoke
for itself.—News item.
' TW
i Qo
Mr. Mitchell: “I remember a case where they
had prayers in the morning, but 1 also remeinbei*
the girls in that place received lower wages than
in places where there were no, prayers.” „ If
"lire Hand:-- Here. "tfre
' of inis ?• AW wzeKs
is I tfree. bot> Sh° r >-
Tf7C Boss •—" Tite+s deductions for
-tirrie we II in f>rayers .
ejcbec-T on e*r#T
p for (’’vf KS • y our
reward will co noe.
trei's&f'fe*'-
818LE.5
HALF price.
FAMILIES
&Thel Trade I
SUPPLIED
A .
/ <?V c s
A V
£
S-$ - v •'
S’ I~C ~ i?
g& s£*§££
«?> A ///
-3r /<?«, i\S*
/ gffjS?
f
£ //££ *
*V#^
(aW~ ,f > j
min<* sfr«wK«£ <*«' ood Vor<s<
Sm 1
\
\ He'b Solve ..
\ -tfje ]>ro^l er ° •
It is extremely desirable that a na-
tional Australian sentiment should be
engendered, and teachers should do all
in their power to give the children clear <
ideas on the relation of Australia to the '
Empire as a whole.
—“Argus” on Empire Day.
i^ls^iorrsVijo
"The
Tie
1.0.U-SbiJo
caibns, wa-jrJ J'SITuS /
ejct, resembling j t was seen by
over Cairns last n*gh • that they
several people- noise like engines
distinctly heard from A
S£& dSomLNews item.
>AH°THE.B
The — I Wonder S»S
is itfe foftrunrter *
It Is claimed by the Minister in
Charge of Immigration (Mr. Hagel-
tliorn) that the adoption of the rural
workers’ log would have a disastrous
effect on immigration.—News item.
Hodge (+o
" |'tell ee '+ls no good I
"to go 'to coontry
Jir*.W swot/
"They it' &tid t>e f&jr
>- y a-', »
To T S<^uvr*.
MOSTLY RELIGIOUS AND IMPERIAL MATTERS.


For Influenza
and after-effects
NOTHING EQUALS
ANgier#mulsioN
a*.
Of Chemists, 1/3, 2/9 and 4/6.
The remarkable soothing and healing properties of
Anther's Emulsion, combined with its strengthening and
properties, make it invaluable both during and
after influenza. There is positively nothing to equal it as
a healing tonic and restorative after influenza, pneumonia,
pleurisy, bronchitis or any illness affecting the lungs or
digestive organs.
Send for free Sample ; enclose 4d. postage and mention this paper.
ANGIER CHEMICAL CO., 7 Barrack St., Sydney, N.S.W,
THe World’s Best.
PAIMLER
MOTOR LORRY.
Silent Knight Engine.
Shaft Drive No Chains.
'
SUNSHINE
Motor Cars P*t*y,
Melbourne.
Hugh V. McKay, Sydney &. Adelaide,]
Sole
Agents,
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
THE END OF THE JOY RIDE.
“Keto” : Maoriland’s white fish, “Pelorous
Jack,” has a rival in Papuan waters. Like P.J., he
confines himself to one locality, and this lies between
Red Scar Head and Cape Possession and embraces
Red Scar Bay and Hall Sound. On several occasions
lie has been seen from a distance swimming leisurely
about, and disporting on the surface of the water
like a porpoise. There has been much conjecture as
to what he is; some opine that he is a porpoise,
others that he is a shark, whilst others think he is
a dwarf whale. The most authentic account of him
was supplied by a Thursday Island resident who hap-
pened to visit Port Moresby some little time ago, in
a 30ft. cutter. He stated that when off Cape Posses-
sion, a huge sea mammal suddenly appeared swim-
ming alongside the cutter. He describes the mon-
ster as having a tail like a shark, and a dorsal fin,
which stuck out of the water higher than the top of
the boat’s bulwarks. In length, the mammal ex-
tended from beyond the point of the bowsprit to
beyond the end of the counter, which would be about
40ft. Across the back at the dorsal fin, the beast of
the marine field measured about Oft. It has no rela-
tives in Papuan fish society, but the sea serpent is a
friend of long standing.
“Billy T.”: Craddock was an extremely
tidy man. His garden was as methodical as a hospital
ward, the beds as trim and well-kept. Craddock was
busy weeding cress when the Deplorable Object put
its detestable head over his side fence, and said
“Good day to you, sir.” The voice was refined, and
Craddock looked up, with the expression suitable to
a mild Sunday in autumn, expecting to see the
Rev. Teddy Welldon. Instead, his eye encountered
an abominable hat of old straw that had been
bitten by a cow, a tangle of hair, with pine shavings
in it, a wilderness of whiskers, with more shavings,
a dirty neck, and a face that looked absolutely
arable. Craddock’s winning smile faded out. “Oh,
good day,” he said reluctantly. “I have a favor to
ask you this pleasant Sabbath morn,” said the De-
plorable Object. “Got nothing to give you,”
growled Craddock. “Forgive me, but as a Christian
man I think you can hardly refuse a misfortunate
fellow creature a bath.” “A bath?” Craddock
stared in amazement. “Yes. A warm bath. You
will admit 1 want one. I observed your recognition
of the fact at first glance. I appeal to you as a
feeling man to give a poor devil the opportunity of
enjoying a good square wash.” “Oh, very well,”
said Craddock; “come in.” The Deplorable Object
wore the worst possible clothes, and his boots were
only recognisable as such because they were on his
feet. Elsewhere they would have been merely two
handfuls of perished leather. Craddock lit the bath-
heater, and lent the Deplorable Object a razor and
a pair of scissors, and the Object conversed in a
pleasant, gentlemanly way, and thanked his bene-
factor in a few, well-chosen words. When half an
hour passed, and there was no reappearance of the
Object, Craddock knocked at the bathroom door. No
answer. Craddock knocked again and shouted. Dead
silence. Then something took hold of Craddock, and
he ran to his nearest neighbor, white-faced, filled
with terrible expectations. Three of them broke
open the bathroom door. The Deplorable Object had
had his hot bath, he had trimmed his own hair very
neatly, shaved himself clean, and put on a presentable
shirt. Then he had spoilt it all by cutting his throat
from ear to ear. He left a note pencilled on the
wall: “I thought I’d better, while I had a good
razor.”
* » * *
“Wandi” : The jackeroo was riding out to
a homestead three miles from the town, where the
mail coach had dropped him. Two miles on the
road he met one of the station hands. “Say, fellow,”
the jackeroo accosted him, focussing him with his
glass, “can you—haw—tell me if this is the right
wa-ay to Mr. —haw—McPherson’s?” Slowly the
bushman lifted his stirrup-iron, and holding it up in
lieu of an eyeglass, replied: “Yes, fellow; you keep
along this—haw—road till you come to a gate, and
if you’ll ring the bell you’ll see hanging there, the
groom—aw —-will come and open it for you.” “Haw
thank you” (with withering politeness). “Haw-
good da-ay!” and Bill lifted his battered felt and
rode off. The jackeroo found the gate, and there was
the bell hanging to the top bar. Bill had picked it
up and strapped it there,
so as to get it on his way
back. But the gate was
partly off its hinges, and
being in a puddle-hole,
the jackeroo recognised
the bell as a necessary
convenience for gentlemen
like him. So he hooked
on to it with his malacca
and rang it vigorously.
Then he sat back and
waited. The house stood
on a gentle rise half a
mile away. A woman
came on to the verandah,
and after he rang the
second time several more
women came out. They
stared towards him, and looked
from one to another, and ap-
peared to be greatly amused
about something. He rang, and
rang, and rang, whistling softly
between times and beating im-
patiently with his malacea. Still
there was no sign of the groom.
It was awfully annoying to be
kept waiting like that. When he
had been there half an hour all
the household were on the veran-
dah, while half a dozen men were
grouped near the hut. These
seemed to be struck with some-
thing funny, too. He continued
to ring at intervals until the horseman returned, and
it only dawned on him that he had made a bigger
fool of himself than usual when that worthy, after
letting him through, galloped off with the bell.
* * * *
“Umfaan”: Some of The Bulletin horse
experts make one tired. They write of a type of
backblocker who—with a few rare exceptions—h„3
been extinct for the past 10 years. The modem up-
country toiler practically never ascends a horse that
wants to go out of a leisurely amble. Mostly he
travels in a sulky or a buggy or on a bike. Not only
has our horsemanship been deteriorating of late, but
so, also, has our horsemastership, which is an even
more serious matter. Horse-sense, in its proper
meaning, is only to be met with now in the coastal
mixed farming areas, where the loss of Dobbin
means money off the milk cheque and where Buceph-
alus has to be fed, at a price. This is deplorable.
The battles of the future will not be won by the
army with the greatest number of men who can ride
b,.ckers or stick to the saddle while the robbo climbs
a precipice with its teeth and toe-nails. No, it will
be won by the army that takes care of its horse-
flesh, knows the limit of a horse’s endurance, and is
aware how to conserve its strength by judicious
riding. Let the younger generation be carefully
taught the equine lore that its now doddering old
grandfather possessed.
“S.Y.N.”: “Yam” (B. 27/3/T3) and
“Pick” (B. 24/'4/’l3) might be all right in backing
tuberculin as an unfailing test for bovine tubercu-
losis, if the honesty of the owners of Crummie and
Strawberry could always be warranted. But any
cunning proprietor of the animal whose milk murders
the baby can defeat an official test by getting in first
with his own surreptitious syringe. After one or
two doses of tuberculin, a diseased cow will no longer
respond with the usual rise of temperature; thus the
inspector is circumvented, and the confidence of
“Yam” and “Pick” is knocked endwise, and brought
to utter confusion.
THE DISTINCTIVE DIFFERENCE.
MRS. SQUATTER (to English visitor): “But you couldn’t have shot a wild sheep—there
are none on the run.”
VISITOR (who had not previously seen the £1500 imported Duke of Lincoln): “But I
assure you I did, madam—a big curly-horned fellow. He was feeding with your
husband’s lame ewes.”
“Gouger”: A deadly terror to the cocoa-
nut grower is the large water-rat, which will destroy
every ripe nut on a tree in a single night. The out-
ward husk of the nut is so hard that a man with a
sheath-knife could not penetrate it in half a day, but
the teeth of the big rat bore through it with ease.
On a still night the sound of a rat operating on a
nut is exactly like the click! click! of a typewriter.
The best safeguard I have seen is to sheath the butt
of the tree with tin or iron. The rat that tries to
climb that dies of heart-break and overheated lan-
guage.
* * * •
“Quarter Single”: Simplicity, says a liter-
ary stylist, not without fame, is the surest road to
grandeur. Also, it is written that out of the mouths
of babes and sucklings cometh the truth. Kipling
has said that the heart of a soldier is as the heart
of a little child, and all these things were exempli-
fied by a story of the Kitchener camp at Kilmore
(Vic.), which was told to the mess tent, but never
got into the papers. The Warrnambool battery,
otherwise known as “the cow guns,” because bullocks
furnished the means of traction, was permitted for
the first and last time on record to desert the
shores of Lady Bay, where it usually exercises in
slow and ruminatory grandeur, and take part in the
special manoeuvres under Kitchener’s personal eye—
not the glass one, but the other one. The fifth Austra-
lian Tnfantry Regiment was detailed for escort duty,
in order that the guns might come into camp with all
the pomp and pride and circumstance of imitation
warfare. Now, the pace of the bullocks was as slow
as the wrath of God, and the boys of the Fifth,
eager to reach bivouac and beef, became indignant
at having to fit their pace to that of the quadrupeds.
They showed it by reversing arms, as at a military
funeral, and whistling the “Dead March,” thereby
nearly provoking a fight with the wrathful gunners.
Officers restored order, and at last the column
plodded into camp three hours late. On arrival, the
khaki-clad chaperons of kine were ordered to go on
picket duty. Their anger was almost too great for
words, and the detachment marched in furious silence
past chaffing comrades—happy, well-fed, and lolling
around their neatly-erected tents. One of the
watchers, perceiving the voiceless indignation of the
Fifth, shouted to a friend in the ranks, “Say, Bill,
where’ve you been? What’s kept you so late?” With
out turning eyes right or eyes left, Bill summarised
the bitter contempt of the whole weary escort in the
scornful reply, garnished by only one unnecessary
adjective: “Bringin’ in the milk!”
“McNorth”: Possession Island, on the bor-
der of Torres and Endeavor Straits, is the supposed
repository of some papers which, it is alleged, were
left there by the late Cook. These documents are
supposed to relate to the visit to and “discovery” of
this country. The difficulty is that Cook planted
those papers in so thorough a manner that the closest
search has failed to unearth them. All likely and
unlikely places have been overhauled, and various
search parties have worn out many weary moons and
their boots in vain. Anyhow, I don’t see why any-
one should lose sleep because of the non-discovery of
the papers. If they had been planted by the Malays
or Dutch, the real discoverers of Australia, they
would have been of much greater value than those of
the Englishman. Assuming that the papers were
deposited on Possession Island, I’ll back the white
ants to have, long ago, inwardly digested them and
their purport, even if they were enclosed in a steel
casket or the hide qf a Legislative Council.
“Nunawading” : The boongarry was long
thought an aboriginal myth, like the bunyip ; but
it isn’t, and the Melbourne Zoo has a couple to
prove it xhe natives used to speak of a kangaroo
. , , ,
whlch llved ln the tree - to P s ’ never drank water, and
leaped to the ground from tremendous heights,
Lamholtz, the naturalist, was apparently the first
white man to get one. It was brought to him on
the Herbert River (Q ) b Nil a an aboriginali in
1882 It ig more of a tree wallaby than a kan .
garoo. A distinct species is Bennett’s tree kangaroo.
Both have a limited range on the Herbert and
Bloomfield. The little beast looks like a large, ring-
tailed opossum; it sleeps rolled up in a shapeless ball
by day> and wben W akened has been seen to leap 50ft.
to the ground. It drinks water in captivity, but does
no t ijq UOr j n the wild state—it gets enough wet out
0 f the sappy vegetation it feeds on. It adds to the
p opulation one at a time, and carries the youngest
me mber of the family in a pouch, like the kangaroo
and wa ]] aby-
TO KEEP PACE WITH THE TIMES.
I KEY: "Please, gran'varder, buy me an aero-
plane."
GRANDFATHER: “Mine gracious! I key, vat
vor?"
I KEY: “I vant to go bird's nesting."
CONCERNING THE NATURAL ARRANGEMENT
OF BEER AND LOVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A velvet night, all soft and dusk for love!
But love was far and we had only beer.
Brown in the glass, with bubbles white above,
It soothed our heart-ache with its malten cheer,
For love was far and we had only beer.
A splashing night most suitable for beer!
Umbrellas held beneath a juicy sky.
But beer was far and dainty love so near,
That one umbrella almost kept us dry
From the wet juices of the leaking sky.
This world that gently seasons beer with love,
And sometimes lends her dusks that we may wear
A damsel’s kisses when the moon above
Is shedding silver on her wind-blown hair,
Is careless of the weather she should wear.
If she must splash the fields to swell the corn,
It should be done what time the beer is ripe;
Love holds the green, unripened beer in scorn,
And beer’s philosophy to* her is tripe,
Knowing her own hot lips are rosy-ripe.
Bearded with beer the heavy earth goes round,
Sweetened with kisses moons arise and set,
Yet moony nights with cords of beer are bound,
And young love gets pneumonia in the wet,
Lingering too long after the beer has set.
N.s.w.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


SPORTING and MATCH
CARTRIDGES.
AH component parts are manu-
factured and put together in
our own factory by experts
who understand just what is
necessary to give best results.
Wholesale only—
Scottish House, 90 William St., Melbourne.
Kynoch House, 277 Clarence Street, Sydney
BOUGHT A BOTTLE.
“I had pains in my legs, which the doctor said
was rheumatism,” writes Mr. Robert Cochrane,
builder, Waimiha (N.Z.). “His lotion did me no
good, and I suffered misery. I saw a friend using
some liniment, which he told me was Chamberlain’s
Pain Balm, and offered me his bottle to try it. It
did me so much good that I bought a bottle myself
and was soon free of all pain.”*
hfd
The 1.0. A.
Australians should insure in
this Australian Company.
WHY?
Apply for Booklet Free.
The Insurance Office
of Australia Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Hobart, Perth, Rockhampton.
INTEREST AWAKENED.
Interest awakened everywhere in the marvellous
cures of Cuts, Burns and Wounds with Dr. Sheldon s
Magnetic Liniment. Is. 6d. and 3s. Obtainable
everywhere.*
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
hfd
BY
APPOINTMENT
hfd
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
hfd
“Eddyson”: We had not been at rendle-
bury’s, at Ballangap, many hours before our atten-
tion was drawn to Johnnie Town. Johnnie was a
man of about 40, scrappily dressed, slipshod, with
patchwork whiskers, a large, pale, wet eye, and an
air of profound melancholy. lie did not seem to
belong to the Pendlebury menage, but he drifted
about the outskirts, so to speak, and occasionally
dropped his head in at the kitchen window with an
appeal. Apparently Pendlebury could do him a
great service if he would, but Pendlebury seemed
indisposed to exert himself to relieve his neighbor's
burden of woe. Town, although despairing, con-
tinued to plead, and his manner was that of the
small boy at school, who drifts round all lunch-
hour, trying to cadge bites of apple from a callous
playmate. “Won’tcher, Jimmie?” was the burden
of Johnnie’s plea, and Johnnie Town could say,
“tV on’tcher, Jimmie?” with more lugubriousness
than 1 had ever dreamed a human creature could be
capable of. The reply of James Pendlebury grew
monotonous. “Oh, goterell!” he said. Pendlebury
was a prosperous agriculturist in the vicinity of a
popular health and holiday resort. He made money
out of cows, crops and summer boarders. There
was no Mrs. Pendlebury visible, but there were three
children, and Pendlebury’s Aunt Ann kept house for
him. There being no one else of interest about Bal-
langap, 1 became concerned for Johnnie Town.
Johnnie was a neighboring landed proprietor who
might also have done a line in summer boarders
and cows and crops, but he was too depressed to
work. While we were at dinner on Sunday, Johnnie
bored his depressing head in through the window cur-
tains. “Won’tcher, Jimmie?” he said. Later in
the afternoon he spent half an hour leaning on the
barn while Pendlebury mended some harness, and all
he had to say was, “Won’tcher, Jimmie - ? Jimmie,
won’tcher?” Apparently Jimmie wouldn’t, so
Johnnie reappeared at tea, saying the same old
thing. After about a week, I found Town showing
a disposition to circle round me, and on the eighth
day he ventured to solicit my vote and interest.
“Arst him to do it, boss?” he said. Here was my
chance. “What is it you w T ant?” said I. “Oh, ’e
knows,” answered Town. “Just arst him to, won’t-
cher ? Say he orter.” After that Town became the
bane of my existence at Ballangap. I may have be-
trayed some signs of a sympathetic interest; any-
how, Johnnie felt himself justified in making con-
tinuous agonised appeals to me to use my influence
with Pendlebury to convince him he “orter.” It
was Town who hastened mv return. He had started
knocking on my window at night, and breathing
through the cracks. “Arst him to, won’tcher, mis-
ter?” The thing was getting on my nerves, so I
packed, and explained to Pendlebury that he should
have Town incarcerated in an asylum for continuous
idiots. “He isn’t mad,” said Pendlebury. “Well,
what the deuce does the man want?” Pendlebury
fired up. “What does he want? What does he
want? Did you ever hear such infernal impudence?
He wants me to take back my wife— take back my
wife! After seven years, too!”' I haven’t heard
that Mrs. Pendlebury is restored to Pendlebury’s
hearth and home, hut if she isn’t Town will talk
Pendlebury to death with his solitary remark.
THE SCIENCE OF CURING THINGS.
Neurasthenia: a method of rousing the depleted
nerves.
“J.J.C.” from the Daly River (N.T.) : Re
“Thos. Butler”(B. 30/l/’l3), I beg to expand the loca-
tion of the barramundi, and state that they are found
in nearly all the coastal rivers north of Capricorn, as
far round as Kimberley. Here, in the N.T., the natives
have caught them for me up to 601 b. weight. They
(the fish, not the natives) are very palatable up to
101 b. or so, but, like all fish that grow to high pound-
age, become coarse as they put on weight over that
limit. Binghi catches the barramundi with a live
prawn or frog on his hook ; so it isn’t a cheerful time
for the frog.
THE POWER OF TGHE PRESS.
BUSH EDITOR: “We will insert the in memoriam verses to your late husband far five-aw-
six, Airs. Hogan.”
MRS. H. : “An’ phwat will it be ter tell him that, there were plumes ler the hearse, an’
twenty-seven buggies follerin?”
“L.F.K.”: Jones and Smith had spent
many years together in the same studio, and the
veteran Jones had always viewed Smith’s work with
a coldly critical eye. Proceeding from the “smoko,”
they’ arrived at the Quay about midnight. Jones,
emerging from the cab, stood on the pavement and
boozily viewed the cab-horse. Turning distractedly
to Smith, he said: “I say, Smith {hie), wosh that?”
“That?” gurgled Smith. “Why, thaSh cab-horse!”
“Dishgraceful,” roared Jones. “Rub it out {hie)
and draw’nother.”
* * * *
“The Undersigned” : While T was waiting
for my second long beer to cool, the fat man and
the soldier in kilts came into the bar. Their drinks
were ordered, and they squared themselves to yarn.
“Well,” said the one in petticoats, grasping his glass
complacently, “as I was telling ye, it was always
the opeenion of Haector McDonnald that a regi-
ment” “Oh! blast Hector McDonald,” broke
in the fat party, “you’ve been talking about Hector
all night. Drop it! We’ll talk about something
else. Let’s talk about flirting; how’s your sister?”
The kilts drew sternly away, and gazed indignantly
at the stout citizen. “Man,” he shouted, “d’ye
realise what ye’ve said t’ met If it hadna’ been
that we’ve been drinking friendly-like this evening,
I’d ha’ felt myself hound to take the most seerious
nottice of the remark ye’ve just made. 1 allow no
man to say that sort •of thing, to me, and I call on
ye to apologise.” “Now, now, now,” said the stout
one, “we’re not going to have Words about a chance
reniark like that. Drink up, and we’ll 'have ahother.”
“Chance remark, ye say. It’s the most' disgreeceful
I ever had said t’ me, and I’m not the man t’ be
mollified with a glass of grog. I fought three
years, off and on, under Haector McDonnald, and”
——■ “For the Devil’s kake, do give Mac a rest.
Here” (putting the glass into the kiltie’s hand)
“get this down while I’m thinking how to smooth
things over.” The warrior, after some show of
hesitation and continued anger, got avvay with the
swig, and the civilian took the opportunity to
order more; but the Highlander made show of not
being so easily placated, and affected to regard the
flowing bowl with scOrn. “I ask ye again to with-
draw that disgreeceful remark ye made t’ me. ' Of
course ye’ve got me at a disadvantage, as ye know
I’m not able to chastise ye as ye desairve, having
me regimentals on. As we’ve been drinking sociable-
like through the evening, I’m prepared to accept a
mere statement that ye withdraw the words and say
ye’re sorry ye made use of them.” “Of course,”
said the fat man, “I’m sorry to ruffle an old
acquaintance like you, and I take back what 1- said.
Here’s health. Drink up.” They drank, but the
soldier retained his injured air, and responded
coldly to the advances of the other. “A remark like
that,” he said, “is a great blow to a fnan, and
although I accept your apology I may tell ye I once
gave a man three weeks in the field hospital for far
less than that..' He was a corporal in oUrs, and had
once been orderly to Haector McDonnald”
“Here,” hastily broke in the corpulent ratepayer,
“have a cigar and another taste,” the which being
accepted and put to use, they prepared to leave.
Then magnanimously the Scotty: “I’m prepared to
be friends with ye. Ye unintentionally offended me,
and perhaps I was hasty; but I must tell ye that
if I had a sister I should ha’ felt myself bound to
take the most seerious nottice of what ye said.”
The S. Aus. Government has established
Greenly Isle, a rocky islet away west,; as a marsupial
home, and has transferred some wallabies; from Kan-
garoo Island to give the place a start. With the
steady spread of foxes, this kind of refuge is going to
be the last chance for most of the Commonwealth’s
smaller wild beasts.
* * * *
“Pick”: Overheard this the other night at
the Club: —-
We stood on a bend of the river, and every time
the mobs of ducks passed up or down we let eight
barrels into them. I believe that with one volley
we fetched down 22, but 1 couldn’t be sure, because
we were too busy for counting, and dozens of
wounded and winged ones crawled away in the grass.
After a while we got sick of bringing them down
wholesale, and took to fancy shots at the red teal
of widgeon drakes. I killed 16 without a miss, and
Joe knocked 14. ’ We gathered up 162 when the fun
was over, and must have left over 50 swans and
cranes, but all the ducks went bad, owing to the
hot weather and flies, before vve got to ’Coota, and
we had to throw them away.
Good old sport!
* * * *
Baekblocks idyll by “Billy T.”: He
hobbled up to the house shuffling two fat feet done
in bundles with the remnants of blucher boots tied
over all-—a stout, unwashed vagnint with fluff all
over him. The, previous night having been cool, he
had slept in a discarded flock bed in Andy’s pad-
dock. He knocked it the back door, and
assumed a plaintive aspect as a short,
plumb', female came forth. “Whatcherwant?”
said the woman. “I want much, lady, but will be
content With a little bread ; and. meat and tea.’’ “You
won’t get It ’ere:” “Will you give me something
to gnaw, niaddm ?” “Naw!” “A drink of milk,
mum?” •“Not. a drop. We just won’t encourage
strange tramps about the place.” “A crust of bread,
woman?” “Not a bite.” “Some old clothes?”
“Never a rag.” “Then I have only one further re-
quest to make, Martha. 'Will you marry me?” She
moved with a certain menacing unconcern to where
a sound of furious animal-like plungings and a
clanking of chains broke-the stillness. Something
in her manner told him that his suit was as hope-
less .as his. clothes. He left.
The other day “Jimmie Pannikin” wrote
assailing “Cavalryman” for his statement that a
large percentage of Australians cannot ride. James
was rash enough to use the flail or battle-axe of
irony. This variety of weapon, when employed in
the presence of the cow-intellect, is hideously liable
to be transformed into a boomerang. History re-
lates that a, butter-editor was the first human being
to take Mark Twain quite seriously; and it is
indisputable that few habitues of the cbw-bails appre-
ciate the finer points of “Gulliver's Travels.” And
so it was that in his own small way, “Pannikin”
fell in—the Manning River Times being the engi-
neer of the disaster. Said that sheet bitterly the
other day-
“J. Pannikin,” who writes to The Bulletin, in
last issue of that paper pronounced (in a long letter)
Australian horsemen to be the ivorst riders in the
world . This is news indeed, and no doubt “J. Pan-
nikin” will receive his own with interest. later on.
“Pannikin” is now thinking of writing a letter to
the effect that the Manning River Times is a paper
of intelligence. The only thing that stops him is
dread lest the conductor of some other cow-sheet may
take proceedings to have him signed up as a lunatic.
A LIGHT TOUCH.
A LFWED: “ G'way! I wouldn't let you touch
me for a hundwed pounds! ”
BULGY BILL: “Aw, give' us a show, Hitter!
I wasn't goin'ter touch yer tor more ( than
a tanner!”
“McNorth”: Torres Strait is the habitat
of' a marine fungus that walks about. This curious
plant is circular and concave in shape, yellow in
color, about 18-in. in diameter, and has an antith
habit of squirting water when touched. I have
never actually seen it walking, but it leaves plenty
of evidence tliat it does so, in the numerous tracks
where its hoofs have trod. It is generally seen on
sandbanks adjacent to coral reefs at low tide. That s
all I know about this pedestrian vegetable, but I’ve
got an aching void for information concerning its
private sins and xiublic virtues.
MURDERING MICK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Twas Murdering Mick who killed his mate and
never shed a tear
As he drew the keen, bright blade across the thro it
from ear to ear.
And he felt no grief for his crimson ‘act when the
mulga shadows crept
Across the silent, levelled sand where his murdered
comrade slept.
’Twae Murdering Mick who went his way, 'forgetful
of his deed*
And in bush hotels and shanty bar* gambled and
sang and spree’d.
And, oh! whenever the whisky flowed, with f
yarns skyscraper tall,
The joyful laugh that the murderer laughed was the
loudest laugh of all!
’Twas Afurdering Mick who found a corpse on the
Northern Camel Pad,
And buried it —though a crooki d stick was the onlv
tool he had.
He closed its eyes, and crossed its hand's, l-'aith-
fashiori, on its breast
(For only the ones who sleep that way. shall have
unbroken rest).
’Twas Murdering Mick who knelt beside the fresh-
made mound and prayed
That the soul of the dead might safely run Valhalla’s
grim blockade.
’Twas little enough he knew of prayer, kit the one
be. spoke might well
Retrieve a soul from the Devil's grip in the deepest
depths of Hell.
’Twas Murdering Mick (whose hands long since were
crimsonly defiled)
IVho knelt beside the grave and shed the tears of an
orphaned child.
And he plucked two fronds of mulga, and with
trembling fingers laid
A queer green Sign of the Cross upon the mound he
had newly made.
‘Twas Murdering Mick who went his way, and never
once foresaw
That a man may flout all earthly things save the
long arm of the Law
And the irony of Circumstance—that fearful loom
that spins
A woeful web around the man whose sins are crimson
sins.
’Twas Murdering Mick who lived to wear a queer
black cap at morn
(And never before in Goulburn Gaol was a cap so
lightly worn !).
’Twas Murdering Mick who dropped from sight, with
never a sign of fear,
To die as swift as the mate whose throat he had cut
from ear to ear.
And I see a man in the gallows shade necktied
with the noose of Death,
But who smiled a frivolous smile, and joked with
the last of his final breath.
I hear the snap of a breaking neck.... But always
shall I see
A man who prayed for a stranger’s soul, and wept
heart-brokenly.
SUNSET LAND.
R. J. CASSIDY.


THE GENTLE ART.
“I never change my bait.”
I NEVER CHANGE MY BAIT.
Sixteen years ago George Reid went to the country on the question of reform of the N.S.W. Upper House. “The Bulletin” then
fisherman sitting on a log over a stream. Now the Holman-McGowen Government proposes to appeal to the electors on the basis of Upper House reform
Same stream, same log, same bait, same fish only a new fisherman.


Martin's Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. Ladies recommend
them. Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
A MARTYR FOR YEARS.
For years I was a martyr to liver complaint ”
71 e l »T S - °? rlett ' 112 Clyde 'Street, Ballarat
(Vic.). I would get dreadful sick headaches and be
unable to eat. I consulted a doctor, but he was un-
able to do me any good. Eventually I tried Cham-
berlain s Tablets, and derived such benefit from them
that my health is now perfect.”*
NIPPED in the bud.
hud bv ol a’ few doses"of n Dr en 9h S” > be in the
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY.
HATS.
F*or
DURABILITY.
ACID STOMACHS ARE DANGEROUS.
NINE-TENTHS OF ALL STOMACH
TROUBLE SAID TO BE DUE TO
ACIDITY.
A PHYSICIAN’S ADVICE ON CAUSE
AND CURE.
A famous physician whose successful re-
searches into the cause and cure of stomach
and intestinal diseases have earned for him
an international reputation, said in the
course of a recent lecture that nearly all
intestinal troubles, as well as many diseases
of the vital organs, were directly traceable
to a deranged condition of the stomach,
which in turn was due nine times out of ten
to excessive acidity, which not only irri-
tated and inflamed the delicate lining of the
stomach, but also set up gastritis and
stomach ulcers. It is interesting to note
that he condemns the use of patent medi-
cines as well as of medical treatment for
the stomach, stating that he and his col-
leagues have secured remarkable results by
the. use of ordinary bisurated magnesia,
which, by neutralising the acidity of the
food, removes , the source of the trouble. H e
contends that tit '/is as foolish to treat the
stomach ItselfV as it would be for a man
who stepped on a tack to rub liniment on
the foot without first removing the tack.
Remove the tack and the foot will heal itself
the acid and stomach troubles
will, disappear. Irritating medicines and
medical treatments are useless, so . long as
the contents of the stomach remain acid;
remove the acidity, and there will be no
need for medicine —the inflamed lining of the
stomach, will then heal itself. Sufferers
from acidity should get a small bottle of
bisurated magnesia from their chemist, and
take half a teasnopn-ful in a quarter of a
glass of. hot or cold water after meals, re-
peating in fifteen' minutes, if necessary, this
being the dose w.hich,,the doctor has found
most efficacious in all cases.*
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Mr. C. E. Walch, the doyen of Tasmanian
booksellers, entered his 84th year on May
9. He was born in India, where his father
was a major in the British Army. This
major retired in 1842 and emigrated with
his family to Van Diemen’s Land, now
iasmania, where, after a few years’ resi-
dence, he purchased the Hobart book and
stationery business of S. A. Tegg. Mr.
Tegg, the son of a London bookseller of
some fame, had some years previously con-
verted the public house known as the
White Horse Inn into a shop, and there
Major Walch established the firm of J
Walch and Sons. Mr. C. E. Walch still
attends daily to the business. Garnet
Walch, who died a few months ago, was a
son.
PRECAUTION.
For talking to female passengers on board the
steamer Irishman on the voyage from London, two
able seamen were, in Melbourne, sent to gaol for
four weeks. —News item.
LADY PESSENGER: “ What time does the boat
reach port? ”
A.B.: “The of man might see us talkin' ’ere
—I'll meet yer down the stoke-'old.”
W. H. Betts, dead at Streaky Bay, in the
far west of S.A., was of the true pioneering
strain. Though under 60, he had lived in
every mainland State, and been a first mate
at sea as well. He started in 1875 at Syd-
ney, and T worked north, then south, then
west. When the Norseman field was boom-
ing, he had stores there and at Esperance •
but his chief work was building up the big
firm of Betts, Limited, with signboards all
over S.A.’s “west coast.” Two sons will
carry it on.
Dear Bulletin, —At various times during
quite a number of years I have contributed
stories and paragraphs to The Bulletin
under the pen-designation of “Hermes.” One
night last week a bookstall attendant gave
me the half of less than nothing entitled
the Fighting Line. It cost me nil, and it
was a shameful overcharge at the price. In
tact, I think of demanding my money back.
this document I found a page signed
. Defines. That “Hermes” wasn't me. He
isn t me. He never will be me. And if he
tries to be me, I will slay him in cold blood.
Lnen 1 will boil his remains till they are
reduced to mere bones, and I will crowd the
bones into a kerosene tin and seal them up.
And, after that, I will build a seven-storey
house with one room on each floor, and a
spiral staircase from top to bottom. Therein
I will live a hermit’s existence on tinned
meat. And 10 times a day I will carry to
the topmost storey the tin containing the
bones of the man who used my pen-name,
and kick the same downstairs amid a fright-
ful clatter of ironmongery and a blue haze
of objurgation.—Yours, etc., C. A. Jeffries.
THE LAST
STRAW.
Empire Day received no official recognition. Many
papers belittled the occasion.' —London cable item.
To-day we do not give anything like the reverence,
respect and gratitude that is due to Ministers and ex-
Ministers of the Crown, men of science and leaders
of the Bar, etc. —State Governor Strickland , at the
Blue Mountain cenfenerations.
GRANNY (in respectful horror): “My Gawd!!
Wot sorter world it do be nowadays!!!”
“Briner” recalls some ancient excite-
ment :—
The cable gives us news of the death of Captain
Anthony, who rescued six political prisoners from
Westraha, and took "them off in the barque Catalpa
The prisoners were Wilson, Cranston, Harrington
Darragh, Hogan and Hassett, transported for being
concerned in the Fenian attempt of 1866-7. Denvoy
tu 6 ‘2l ead centl,e ” in America, organised the plan’
The Clan-na-Gael bought the Catalpa, which sailed
from New Bedford (U.S.) April, 1875, commanded
by Anthony. It cruised for a number of months off
Westralia in pretended whaling ; arrived at Bunbury
m March, 1876; and anchored near Rockingham
five days later. Next morning the six prisoners,
engaged in the open on various works at Fremantle
left their employment, and were driven to Rocking-
ham, whence they were taken by boat to the Catalpa.
Meanwhile the -alarm had been given; the Govern-
ment steamer Georgette went in pursuit, and a coast-
guard boat tried to intercept the fugitives. It was
* cl $L se . , ace * But the escapees .got alongside first;
the Catalpa pulled the .boat up aboard with all the
men in it, and put out to sea. Early next morning
it was overhauled by the Georgette, which fired a
shot over the Catalpa’s bows, and then got up close.
A parley ensued, followed by threats from the
Georgette, at which Anthony merely smiled. Subse-
quently, after he had landed his men safely, the
Clan-na-Gael presented the Catalpa to the skipper
Richardson, the agent, and Hathaway, the New Bed-
ford chief of police who had given valuable service.
R. Murray Smith, one-time Victorian
politician, and later Agent-General in Lon-
don, has moved out of the chair of the
Trustees Executors and Agency Co., after
a 26 years’ connection with the office. He
is _ now 82, and thinks he needs to take
things easier. Born in Liverpool, Murray
Smith went to Repton School, in Derby-
shire, where he had for schoolfellow C. H.
Pearson, “the Professor,” afterwards known
so well in Victorian politics and journalism.
Curiously enough, Smith went back from
Australia to England as Agent-General for
Victoria, and, later on, Pearson weht back
as secretary to the Agent-General. In 1873
which was 19 years after he came to Vic-
toria, Smith stood for St. Kilda in the Legis-
lative Assembly, and was returned unop-
posed. He was a member of the House for
a generation, yet, though admittedly an able
man, he never sat in a Ministry. Edward
Vilson, the Argus proprietor, thought most
highly of him, and when he (Wilson) went
to live in England, Murray Smitb 'he never
liked the Smith to stand alone acted as
one of the trustees for the paper.'
The remains of the widow of Chief Jus-
tice Darley (N.S.W.) were buried at Car-
michael, Thankerton, Lanarkshire, a coalv
county m South Scotland. Carmichael is
the home of Carmichael Anstruther, Bart.,
whose mother j s the youngest daughter of
% k*® p h i. ef Justice. What is left of the
old Chief lies in the Darlev family vault
m St. Jerome’s Cemetery, Dublin.
“Jeames” on high European society:—
According to a cable last week, the Baroness
Vaughan, the final indiscretion of the late King of
the Belgians, has divorced Durrieux, whom she married
shortly after the be-whiskered old monarch died. It
is a million to one that the cause of the trouble is
infidelity. Durrieux was renowned, in his own small
way, for his fine turn of moral speed. He had been
over a lot of grass in his time, and the delights of
fast movement never palled. He was the Baroness’s
steward while her royal spouse was alive, and as a
side-line he supported various coryphees, odalisques
and such-like luxuries in Brussels and Paris. This
pastime or practise he attempted to carry on after
marriage, and the domestic rows that resulted be-
tween the pair did much to relieve the tedium of
their friends’ lives. The Cri de Paris and other
t rench weeklies recorded them in detail with an
almost loving care. Durrieux had no money of his
own, and from the moment he married the well-
dowered Baroness, desisted firmly from the effort
to earn any. Such an action would be revolting to a
woman of the Baroness’s type. Ladies of this sort
mostly have three lovers —the mari, who provides a
certain faint glamor or haze of respectability (not
to mention the house and the servants’ wages and so
forth) ; the banquier, who finds the pearls, the Worth
frocks, the motor-car and the pocket-money requisite
for its upkeep ; and the amour de coeur, who has no
money, and caters simply for the romantic side of the
matron’s nature. He mostly gets a good deal of the
earnings of the banquier and the mari one way
or another. Durrieux was Baroness Vaughan’s
amant de coeur for years. He made the mistake of
his life, probably, in descending to the status of
mari. The mari is essentially unpicturesque and
commonplace and altogether bourgeois; besides which
he bows beneath all sorts of tiresome rules and
bylaws that do not apply in the case of the care-
free, debonnair amant de coeur. The inscription that
the world will engrave on Durrieux’s financial mauso-
leum may well be: “He made the fatal mistake of
becoming more or less respectable.”
“Jaunty Johnny” Gordon, of the S. Aus.
Supreme Court, is a saddened man nowa-
days. Troubles have come to him not as
spies but in battalions. His heart was in
his work as chairman of the Sugar Com-
mission. Then, before he could finish it,
illness struck him and he had to retire. He
had, however, done so well there and on
the S.A. bench that a seat on the High
Court was open to him; but the same ill-
health intervened. So he remains merely a
member of the worst-paid bench in Aus-
tralia. The Tasmanian Judge draws a
poorer salary, but, then, he has an old-age
pension to look forward to. Yet even these
things have not poured so much bitterness
into the brilliant Gordon’s cup as the
recent death of his two sons and his son-in-
law, all in the prime of life.
A lady sends a memo, from Melbourne:—
Accidents have of late become a habit or a hobby
with the sporting Herbert Power family. The first
effort was made by the head of the house, who in-
dulged m a buggy accident at the ancestral station.
Later on, he had—or gave—an accident with a
cychst as an encore. Son Reggie then decided to
h i s hunter > and did so. The shouts had
hardly died away, when a sister shot out of a hansom
cab and arrived in the gutter. Other families of a
less inventive disposition would then have desisted
Not so the Powers. The eldest son, Bertie, 'hurried
off and had a serious accident in two chapters, from
the effects of which he is f. il limping—a really fine
effort. But the end was not yet. Another daughter
won the limelight beam by having her arm bitten by
a cab horse. This was a clever move. Mere sensa-
tionalism had already been overdone; it was time to
be quaintly original, if not absolutely funny. Some-
thing homely and simple followed the cab-horse turn
—i.e., someone caught her foot and fell over a mat
—a sure laugh-winner, if well done. The last item
of the turn was supplied bv the youngest son, in
Queensland, assisted by a kicking horse which hoofed
him on the knee. lam not unsympathetic. I com-
menced this paragraph in a sympathetic frame of
mind; but there is a point at which falling misfor-
tunes become mere knockabout farce.
ATTLEE
HUNT, of
the External
Affairs
Department.
TETLEY GRANT ,
President of the Uppish
House , Tasmania.
Died, aged 75, Can-
tain Harry Mance
who had been so long
on the Parramatta
River that he was the
Commodore” 0 f its
mosquito fleet as far
back as 25 years ago
Phen or thereabouts
i f e^ as T given command
of the Pheasant, which
still earns its victuals
in the service. n
looks a queer old ark-
nowadays, bu t wat
reckoned a ri Ve
palace once. m pn
Mance began his car
eer as a navigator, the
journey t o Pam
matta and back was a
long-day aflttir; the
passengers “tuckered”
on board—-wherefore
Breakfast Point, UD
towards Hyde. Trave-
J ers fo *, 30 years past
knew Mance only as
a benevolent-looking
long-bearded old man
nothing ruffled.
fe till, he had his
strenuous hours— as
for instance, when he
was put in charge of
a small steamer and
sent outside the Heads
to search for possible
survivors of the Dun-
bar wreck. He didn’t
and any survivors, but
he brought in a full
cargo of dead.
The late Edward Hordern, who died
recently, aged 50, was a son of Edward
Hordern, who was one of the five boys in
the family of th.e original Anthonv Hordern
Four sons flourished in Sydney; these were
John Edward, Lebbeus, and Anthony, j un
The first-born, William, made his home in
Melbourne All were drapers excepting
William. John was in business in Lower
George-street; Lebbeus and Edward estab-
lished themselves on Brickfield Hill •
Anthony had his store at the Haymarket
The Pitt-street Horderns” are sons of
John; Sam and his brothers of the big
Emporium are grandsons of the second
Anthony; and certain other Horderns who
went into business but dropped out of it a
while back are sons of Edward.
Chief Justice Griffith, of the High Court
who recently went to Europe on a holiday’
got to work immediately on arrival He
t s ol^ hi T> B . eat ith Judicial Committee
ot the Privy Council, and assisted in the
case of Brunton against the Acting Commis-
sioner of Stamps, N. S. Wales.
About Robinson Crusoe, Junior:—
Every man can write one book (though, Heaven
be pnused he doesn’t always do it), and if George
R ° 0 j e ’^ n W t° J dled lately at Goulburn
(N.S.W.), aged 79, had written his, it would have
been catalogued under “Romance” at the circulating
libraries. Some 50 years ago Rooke was a sailor
aboard the Strathmore, which got piled up on the
Groziet Islands, and dragged down its captain .and
omcers. I orty-eight men and one wqjnan got away
on a raft, captained by Rooke, and, after a battle,
they scrambled ashore in bitterly cold weather on
one of the- islands. The land was absolutely barren,
and water could be obtained only by melting snow
and ice. The castaways lived on birds while there
were any to live on: when the supply failed Cve of the
men died of privation, and another went perman-
ently mad. Vessels drifted past occasionally in the
distance, but could not be signalled. Then lots
were drawn to decide who should be dinner for the
rest, but an opportune immigration of birds made
the butchery unnecessary The survivors were rescued
by the whaler Young Phoenix, about seven months
after the smash. Later, Rooke grafted prosaically
on the N.S.W. Railways, and then went into the
carrying business, from which he retired about 20
years ago.
From “Rosna,” in London:—
S.A. Premier Peake went down to Exeter the other
day with a gold watch and chain to present to J. W.
Billiatt, the. last survivor of the John McDouall
Stuart expedition—the first to cross Australia from
south to north 50 t years ago. The watch, given by
the people, of South Aus., had a map of Australia
raised on it, with a dotted line showing the route
of. the expedition, and the presentation was made
with a full complement of mayors and red carpets.
Mr. Billiatt is, of course, no chicken nowadays. For
many years after he had given up exploring, he lived
on in S. Aus.. dropping down to the prosaic life of
a suburban school-teacher He is right out of har-
ness now, but looks good for a few more rounds with
Time.
JOY RIDES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Under a headline, “The Lure of the Motor,” Mel-
bourne papers explain that the local police have been
instructed to peremptorily move on any motor-cars
found loitering along the city kerbs. This drastic
acceleration of motor movements is due to the fact
that gay and giddy motorists are guilty of lurking
to beguile simple maidens to take a spin. It is then
a case of “once aboard the lugger, the girl is mine.”
So many complaints have been made of nefarious
practices during these joy rides that stalking is to be
rigidly repressed in the city.
The damsel with a trusting heart
Delights to see the trees flash past,
And feel the motor jump and start,
Although not naturally “fast.”
She turns a blue and sparkling eye
When Bertie of the car is nigh,
And sighs when to her ear is borne
The toot of Henry’s motor horn.
There’s something in the spinning wheel
Affects the modern maiden so,
She sends her diffidence to heel,
And lets old Circumspection go.
To-day grim Mephistopheles
Sends many Fausts in quest of these,
But not with pearls and ruby stars—
They’re all equipped with motor-cars.
Consuming space, the car will dash
To distant sands with Marguerite;
And when the chauffeur waxes rash,
And hits it up to fever-heat,
And men are ploughed and dogs are hoed,
The dangers of the downward road,
Believe me, neighbor, are not known
By scared pedestrians alone.
Along Victorian ways are reared
Red notices for motor chaps,
That tell of crossings to be feared,
And corners that may cause mishaps.
Let Wowsers now, with sudden zeal
This motor wickedness to heal,
Along the tracks to everywhere
Set up the legend: “GIRLS BEWARE!’’
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.
HIS NAME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Manifold is a man who has written his na™
across the Western district, and stands hi 4 in the
estimation of his fellows.— Melbourne Argus!
Y °^r^n% h A name °’ er the em Pty West;
rhe West that sprawls in eternal sleep •
nfT £f r * t bleat -the name unblest’
Of Earthfat Manifold writ in sheep!
[C. R. BRADISH, THE
Bulletin Office, 369 Col-
lins-street, Melbourne.]


Havelock
TOBACCO
9EG7_
U. *
-*T
J /
S)\
i
X
V,
€
“ When the toil of the day is over.*
*THE Australian Bushman finds
more soothing or satisfying at “
time or after a “ hard ” day
pipeful of “ HAVELOCK..”
Australia’s National Smoke
nothing
Smoko”
than a
CUT (IN TINS) FLAKE OR MIXTURE.
ALSO IN PLUG FORM
A GOOD JUDGE WILL USE
400
PIPES
.
pipe Guaranty


WORTHINGTON PUMP COMPANY LTD.
PUMPS—STEAM, AIR or MOTOR DRIVEN, CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS
CONDENSERS and COOLING TOWERS. GAS and OIL ENGINES and
GAS PLANTS. MINE VENTILATING FANS, AIR COMPRESSORS
FEED WATER HEATERS & PURIFIERS. OIL & STEAM SEPARATORS’ >
For Catalogues and
Information apply—
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY
Steam Turbines coupled to Dynamos, Alternators, Pumps, Blowers, Fans, etc.
The Original Inventors of Parsons' Type.
C. A. PARSONS S CO.,
Newcastle-on-Tync,
HAVE SUPPLIED OVER 60,000 B.H.P. OF TURBINES IN AUSTRALIA ALONE.
Sole Australasian
Agents—
WILLIAM ADAMS (Kb COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, PertH*
Th WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australia is showing a slight tendency to
return to saner methods of living. For a couple of
years it was simply rushing to destruction. To pay
our way we must export at least £13,500,000 more
than we import. Our public debt was £281,255,000
on June 30 last, and 70 p.c. of it was nominally
foreign debt; actually more than that was foreign
That means we must export £7,500,000 worth of
goods to pay our foreign creditor for the loan of his
little bit of the public debt ; and the private investor
takes another £6,000,000. Yet in 1912 our im-
ports actually exceeded our merchandise exports by
no less than £10,021,015, and in the previous year
the excess of merchandise exports was only
£2,437,265. In those two years we, therefore, went
upwards of £19,500.000 to the bad; and we had
to make it up by drawing on our supplies of gold—
which meant that the banks had to call in money
and shut down on advances. We are still a long
way from living as respectable people should ; but,
fortunately, our merchandise exports in the first four
months of this year were 7 p.c. more than in the
corresponding third of last year, while our imports
are about 31 p.c. less. Both movements, though as
yet small, are the right way. A couple of years of
that, with good seasons into the bargain, and the
bank manager may once more be affable to the cus-
tomer who calls in for assistance.
* * * *
The Maoriland Government Life In-
surance Department:—
Added
Claims Provided to In-
and Snr- Ex- against De-surance
Dec., Revenue. renders, penses. preciation. Fund.
1900.. £423,700 £219,993 £61,431 £142 276
1901.. 460,753 256,100 £59,194 145 459
1902.. 451,348 271,268 59,895 £22,783 97,402
1903.. 463,380 269,413 64,723 129 244
1904.. 480,716 266,704 60,490 153 522
1905.. 490,924 263,148 63,829 6,953 1561994
1906.. 507,070 270,220 67,828 -- 169 022
1907.. 526,712 304,230 66,670 155 812
1908.. 534,440 328,763 68,403 20,000 117,274
1909.. 546,566 333,990 72,120 140 456
1910.. 561,151 340,028 71,534 149,589
1911.. 594,410 344,957 74,213 30,000 145,240
1912.. 590,314 378,653 82.489 129,172
The Australian and Maoriland Governments fixed up
a reciprocity treaty the other day with regard to
old-age pensions. Presently, when the Commonwealth
gets its own insurance office, reciprocity will, no
doubt, be arranged with regard to that matter, too ;
and then this M.L. office won't be handicapped as it
is to-day. Maoriland is no big place, after all; and
there are thousands of Maorilanders who believe that
it won’t be half big enough for them when they get
really going. These Alexanders and Caesars look for-
ward to conquering Australia ; and when it comes to
a matter of insurance, they reflect, that the M.L.
Government Life Department doesn’t hoist its sign-
board in Australia, wherefore difficulties are appre-
hended with regard to remittances, and the policy
goes to some other office. Also, the Australian, going
to M.L. to settle, isn’t familiar with the Govt, office;
so he passes it by.
The handicap is serious in another way. Maori-
land developed the borrowing lunacy rather earlier
than most parts of Australia, and had it in a worse
form, with the result that its taxation is now more
burdensome. Like every other section of Australasia
it professed to borrow only for permanent and repro-
ductive works. But there are so many leakages, and
there is so much waste during a borrowing boom,
that, instead of a profit being subsequently earned to
reduce taxation, taxation invariably increases along
with the debt and the interest bill on the debt.
Between 1901 and 1910, Maoriland is supposed to
have grown a fine crop of prosperity, wherefore the
profit from the loan undertakings should have been
unusually gilt-edged. Yet the taxation during that
period increased from £3 18s. 9d. to £4 6s. lOd.
per head; and the sole visible explanation lies in
the fact that the net public indebtedness per head
increased from £62 16s. lOd. to £72 13s. 9d. per
head. Being thus confined to a Dominion which, for
its sins, is excessively taxed, this life office had to
pay last year no less than £15,071 to the Govt. This
works out at over 18 p.c. of the entire expenses,
whereas in the A.M.P., which operates in Australia
as well as M.L., taxation accounts for only 12 p.c.
of the total expenses. The A.M.P, pays at the rate
of 4.04 p.c. of its M.L. premium income in M.L.
taxes ; while, allowing that it pays a full half of the
Federal land tax in respect of N.S.W. properties, its
N.S.W. taxation bill is only 1.16 p.c. of its premium
income in N.S.W. A few more years of such wild
extravagance as N S.W. has had lately, and the
N.S.W. bill will be up to where M.L.’s is. Meantime,
the burden of taxation weighs heavy on the office
that confines itself to M.L , and gives its expense rate
a bad appearance:—
Expenses in Proportion to Total Income.
1903 ..£l3 19 4 p.c. 1908 ..£l2 16 0 p.c.
1904 .. 12 11 8 „ 1909 ..13 310 „
1905 .. 13 0 0 „ 1910 .. 12 14 11 ,
1906 . . 13 7 6 „ 1911 . . 12 9 8 ,
1907 . . 12 13 2,. 1912 . . 13 19 6 „
The spring in the past year has been unusually seri-
ous. After lou Ward’s burst of borrowing, there
was the reaction, of course, and the country wasn’t
feeling very well. Business was, therefore, harder
to get: it cost £20,593 in commission to rake in
£26,722 of new premiums last year, whereas in 1911
it cost only £17,384 to get in £25,101. Probably
owing to advances in the cost of living, salaries, etc.,
have also been forced up—a practically universal
complaint. But so far as an insurance office is con-
cerned there should be two set-offs against that:
(1) the turnover should be greater, because a man
can as well afford to pay £lO now as he could £9 a
while ago; (2) the interest earnings should be
larger. But while exes, have a habit of jumping
promptly, the set-offs happen along slowly. So the
average interest earnings last year were only
£4 12s. Id. p.c. on the insurance and investment
fluctuation funds combined. It is lid. p.c. better
than the result for, the previous year, but is none
too much considering that a shade over 60 p c. of
the funds is out on mortgage and only 134 p.c. in
Govt, securities. However, £4 12s. Id. p.c. is a
very respectable figure, and allows a good margin
beyond the rate ass»med when the exceptionally lib-
eral premium tables were drafted. That margin is
available for bonuses.
Further, fine contributions to the fund for bon-
uses are made through M.L.’s most excellent mortal-
ity experience. The Dominion has the lowest death
rate in the world. Take a few 1909 figures—the
last year for which anything like complete world
statistics are available:—
Maoriland .. 9.22 p.c.
Queensland . . 9.70 „
N. S. Wales . . 9.89 „
v iotoria ..11.45 „
Eng’, and Wales 14.50 ~
Scotland .. 15 3p.c.
Germany .. 171 „
Ireland .. 17.2 ~
France .. 19.3 „
Italy .. 21.4 „
Leslie's tables show that at birth the M.L. male
youngster has an expectation of life of 54.44 years.
Coghlan’s figure for N.S.W. was 49.6 —regarded
as unusually high at the time, though pro-
bably it would be still higher now. If, then, the
expense rate could only be brought down, the policy-
holders in the M.L. office would handle particularly
choice bonuses. The high expense rate is the btig-
bear not tremendous, certainly, in proportion to
total income, but much too big when the poor
volume of new business is taken into account. It
is still worth seriously considering whether it
wouldn t be best to go right out of the racketting
round and chasing after new business, and allow the
new business to come practically unsolicited. That
would mean a saving of something like £30,000 a
year in exes., which would give policy-holders in
this office the finest bonuses in the world, or there-
abouts. That knowledge might bring in more busi-
ness than the horde of canvassers now employed.
The change might be rough on the canvasser; but
the canvasser isn’t the first consideration.
* * * »
The Intercolonial Investment, Land
and Building Co. (Sydney) :■ —
To Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1900 .. £4,392 7 pc, =£2,339 £2,053 £19,161
Forfeited capital .. .. 16 21,214
1901 .. 4,911 7 „ „ 2,448 2,463 23,677
1902 . . 5,261 7 „,, 2,537 2,724 26,401
1903 . . 5,900 7} „ „ 2,762 3,138 29,539
1904 . . 6,591 9 „ „ 3,355 3,236 32,775
1905 .. 7,639 10 „ „ 3,792 3,847 36,622
1906 .. 8,952 12} „ „ 4,742 4,210 40,832
1907 .. 9,249 10 „ „ 4,126 5,123 45,955
1908 .. 9,535 12} „ „ 5,659 3,876 49,831
1909 . . 12,018 12f „ „ 5,836 6,182 56,013
1910 . . 13,691 10 „,, 5,190 8,501 64,514
Transferred to capital, £5807 .. 58,707
1911 ™ 24 - 624 10 p.c. = 6,301 18,323 77,030
Transferred to capital, £9670 . . 67,360
1912 . . 33,737 16 p.c. = 12,760 20,977 88,337
Anl., Transferred to capital, £9308 .. 79,029
1913 . . 13,414 10 p.c. = 4,366 9,048 88,077
Altogether it is an amazing story. In 1910 the capi-
tal was £51,000. Since then, in 3} years, £53,402
has been divided among shareholders and £32,064
has been put to reserves. That is what the boom
has done for these people. They were in a poor way
when Federation arrived and brought the wail of the
Cabbage-tree mob that everything would be shifted
to Melbourne now. Things, however, cussedly started
to improve in Sydney almost at once, notwithstand-
ing a bad time in the country, and the co. began to
ha,ve inquiries for the old building lots that it hadn’t
sold in the glorious days of Freetrade. Then it
started to buy more estates, and was helped in that
process by the graduated land tax. After that, the
boom came to Sydney, hanging on to the coat-tails
ot a few bumper seasons. Money was poured out like
water. The population jumped 170,000 in 10 vears
—over 31 p.c. Those 170,0.00 had to be housed;
also a few other tens of thousands who had been
turned out of city rookeries or had been squeezed
out by factories and warehouses were obliged to find
new quarters. This co. got busy in supplying some
of them with what they wanted. The Subdivisions,
, 4 “ e most part, brought in corpulent profits. Some
of the money was distributed; most of it was kept
business. Of course, they knew it
couldn t last ; and never knowing when 'the whole
affair would crack, they took care not to- borrow
heavily in order to load themselves up with freehold
estates At the present time they have a good deal
more freeholds in hand than usual (presumably un-
sold estates and fragments of estates), but the total
even now is only £52.829, and the liabilities, less
cash in hand, are £56,329. The big asset is: “Bor-
rowers and purchasers’ balances, after deducting sus-
pense account, £185.674.” This amount is, pre-
sumably, secured by the properties sold bv the co •
m some cases, of course, advances for building have
also been made. If only reasonable advances have
been made and the slumo isn’t sudden (and it nro-
bably won t be very sudden, though for ‘some subur-
u , properties it may be verv severe), the co
shouldn t run much risk, especially as there appears
to be some kind of a suspense account or internal
reserve. At the same time, if it escanes losses on
old business the years w-Tl come round again when
there won t be much new business to provide nrofits.
* *
* *
Ihe Grand Hotel, Ltd. (Melbourne) :
Nominal
. Written To Re- Re-
Profit. Dividend-. Off. serves, serves.
1009 £ gos- q P.c. = £927 £3681 £19,431
1902 7250 3 „ „ 927 6328 25,759
Loss.
1903 629 Nil ■ 25,130
Profit.
1904 2061 Nil 2061 27 191
1905 2018 Nil 2018 29 209
!»“ 2lp 'Vt 843 - M » 8 »?:S"
1908 3021 2% „*, 843 2178 35’378
} 9 ? 9 2 J ” ” 843 ~ 1201 ll frl
1910 2713 2f „ „ 843 1870 38 449
1911 5597 3} „„ 1124 £11,553 31 369
1912 4848 5 „ ~1686 3162 34 531
1913 3211 5 „ „ 1686 10,613 2M43
£ ®. 59 L £4848 > £ 32ll—that doesn’t look too
well. And yet it 1S quite intelligible. The average
annual value of the Australian wool clip for the
first four years of this century was £15,804 750
In 1910 it was £31,762,000; and the growth up to
that point had been pretty regular. That was a
nice little bit of extra money from one source alone
for Australia to have in its pocket, to spend in
Grand Hotels and other places. But then came a
change. The 1911 clip was worth £3,350,000 less
than that of 1910. That sudden bumn was bad •
to make a few people thoughtful, it
didnt tighten up very many pockets. Then came
last year s drought, with stock losses which we are
finding out now were far greater than had been
o U Q P Fn°fL,u rhe , Vlc - w ° ol cli P smashed down from
B u’ ™ lb ' t 0 69,836,9701 b. And that was not
'■ n ' + i. Th L y i ear . lendei 1 ende i up with L 965,580 less sheep
in the State than it started with—a reduction of
15 p c.—which means serious things for this cur-
rent year s clip as well. Meantime, while a whole
4ot , °L h eope who have been ver y flush of monev
find their cheques cut down, wherefore they must
draw m,” such concerns as the Grand Hotel have
found their exes, sailing up. And they will stay ud
more or less, even when the revenue falls back to
something like normal. The outlook doesn’t there-
fore glitter. True, the pubs in Victoria are gradually
thinning out. During the past six years 162 nubs
have been dehcensed in Greater Melbourne and
another 245 are doomed. But that doesn’t make so
much difference as might be thought to boiled-shirt
caravanserais like the Grand. The places shut up
are mostly frumny old dens, whose customers haven’t
been driven to the Grand. On the other hand, the
entirely abnormal conditions of the past few vears
have set builders at work on existing pubs
with results like you see at the Oriental, for instance’
So competition is going to be pretty keen when
normal conditions come back. Fortunately for this
co. it will face that change in much improved cir-
cumstances :
T . 1903. 1913.
Liabilities . . .. £68,011 £53,656
Assets (other than premises and
furniture) 1,481 6)333
Deficiency .. .. £66,530 £47,323
Thus in 10 years the co.’s position has been im-
proved by £19,207, assuming that the freehold and
furniture, etc., are worth as much now as they were
10 years ago; and that looks a verv safe assump-
tion. Certainly £2BlO of new cauital has been got
in J but the whole of that would only reduce the
improvement to £16,397. The liabilities consist
almost exclusively of a mortgage on the freehold
£52,000.
The Equitable Permanent Benefit,
Building, Land and Savings Institution (Syd-
ney) :
Written Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
1901 ..£7,556 9 p.c. =£6,373 £1286 £26,682
1902 . . 8,431 9 „ „ 6,338 522 28,253
1903 .. 8,466 12 „„ 8,451 210 28,058
1904 .. 8,966 9 „ „ 6,338 1053 29,633
1905 . . 9,086 9 „ „ 6,338 30 32,351
1906 .. 9,545 12 „„ 8,451 677 32,768
1907 . . 9,875 9 „ „ 6,338 36,305
1908 .. 10,102 9 „„ 6,338 518 39,551
1909 . . 9,933 12 „ „ 8,451 455 40,578
1910 .. 10,741 9 „ „ 6,338 760 44,221
1911 .. 11,835 9 „ „ 6,338 100 49,618
1912 . . 12,805 15 ~ „ 10,564 363 51,496
Premiums on new shares, £1942 .•. 53,438
1913 .. 12,365 9 „ „ 7,204 88 58,511
This co., now in its 40th year, lives by helping
people to build or buy houses. Its own capital till
lately was £70,425; but as its borrowings have for
some time past exceeded £200,000, the time was
plainly ripe for a fresh issue of capital. Holders
were therefore offered one new share for every three
old ones, at a premium of £lO ; and £9712 of new
capital has thus far been got in. As to the pre-
miums, the bad plan has been adopted Of bundling’
it up with a revenue item in the Profit and Loss
account. It is very questionable policy tb put it
through the Profit and LOSS account at all; if it
must go there, it is unquestionably bad policy not
to show it separately. The amount should be trans-
ferred promptly to formal reserves. It isn’t, by the
Way, at all like this co. to adopt methods which
don’t pass the most stringent tests. As might have
been expected, considering the “abnormal” rents that
have been charged lately—“abnormal” is the direc-
tors’ adjective—-the co. has had a great rush of
applicants for loans. “The Board, considering that
the high values for properties cannot be maintained,
has,” says the report, “dealt with the securities sub-
mitted on even more conservative lines than usual.”
It is good news for the shareholders. They have
£324,835 out on mortgage, of which no less than
£235,169 is borrowed money : and even if the securi-
ties slump, the depositors will expect 20s. in the £,
and shareholders have pledged themselves to the
extent of their capital and reserves to see that they
get it. The risks of'a society like this are, how-
ever, less than those of, say, a bank Which lends
on a property without any stipulation, as a rule,
that the debt shall be gradually reduced. Of course,
if there were a sudden slump, the building society
would be liable to be hit with the rest; but the re-
payments, in most cases, are likely to keep pace with
any ordinary shrinkage in Values. In this instance
the shrinkage in values may be expected to be Of
the steady sort—-not like the old smash, which was
mainly due to the banks having loaded themselves
up with foreign money, and being then suddenly
called on to nay it back in millions. Stili, a co.
with £324,835 Out. on mortgages of this kind can
scarcely escape some trouble. For the most part, the
purchasers, hurrving to escape rent, and With but
few pounds in the locker, push out to remote parts
in order to get, cheap land ; and that’s the sort of
property that it is hardest to either seii or let when
the tide turns. For this reason it is good to see
such solid reserves ; they are more than enough for
any contingency that at present seems probable.
* * * *
The Canterbury Frozen Meat and
Dairy Produce Export Co. (Maoriland) ;—,
Written To Re- Re-
Nov., Profit. Dividends. Off. serves, serves
1902.. £11,610 8 p.c. = £6,000 £5,000 £6lO £9,829
1903.. 12,213 8 ~ „ 6,000 3,500 2,713 12,542
Premiums on new shares .. .. 5,40 J 17,942
Loss.
1904.. 2,315 4 p.c. = 3,927 11,700
Premiums on new shares .. .. 1,329 13,029
Profit.
1905 .. 15,074 | ® 4’||f } 6,406 19,435
1906.. 23,833 { 6 ” 8 694 ( 10)639 30)074
1907.. 20,810 j 6 ” o?d f ' 8 698 [ 5)000 2,612 32)686
1908.. 15,071 6 p.c. = ' 11*1028 3,500 548 33,234
1909.. 17,493 6 ~ ~, 11,023 3,500 2,970 36,204
1910.. 45,944-j 6 ” o, r d f ‘ s’69B} 18)972 *3,774 49 ,978
1911.. 21,946 jg ” g-eos} 4)613 4,135 54,113
1912.. 24,852{ 6 ” 4 ; s ™} 4,340 7,314 61,427
Or, if you like, you can write off another £4500
which has been put to a reserve “for replacements,
etc., in progress and authorised.” If it is not done
now it will have to be done later on. Considering
the turnover, which has been smaller than usual,
the year’s were remarkably good. The co. has
been running for 20 years, and has had but few
hard bumps. What it handles is, of course, surplus
stock; and as the surplus varies with the seasons,
profits are erratic. Still, real droughts are rare
cattle in Maoriland; wherefore this and other ML.
freezing and packing cos. don’t suffer the tremendous
fluctuations of fortune V(hich make such a gamble
of similar Australian concerns. This co.’s capital
and reserves combined amount to £245,154. Pre-
mises and works are valued at £281,406; and
there are other assets (less the dividend) to the
total of £72,282. That works out this way:—
Assets;—Premises, plant, etc. .. £281,406
Stock, book debts, etc. .. 72,282
Total assets ..£353,688
Less capital and reserves .. , ~ 245,154
Liabilities . . £108,534
One can only take the co.’s word for it that the
premises, plant, etc., are worth the amount at which
they figure in the books; but these assets certainly
seem to have been kept written down solidly, and
are, therefore, probably not now overvalued. In
the past 11 years the disclosed profits have been
£206,531, of which no less than £93,904 has been
left in the business, and available for reserves and
replacements, etc. ; and that’s a record which sug-
gests that Prudence, Esq., has a seat on the Board.
Paris House, Ltd. (Sydney), which paid
£10,500 for the goodwill and fixings of a Sydney
eating-house as from March, 1911: —
Deficit
(Ex-
Writ- elusive
ten of Good-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. Off. will.)
1912 .. £195 74 p.c. = £975 Nil £7BO
Loss.
1913 .. 475 Nil £2165 3420
Twelve months ago the directors were O. T. Elmslie,
V. Osborne, J. E. Hermann, C. T. Metcalfe and
G. A. F. Belisario, and the secretary was B. J.
McDougall. The directors are now Hi U. Macken-
zie, C. T. Metcalfe and W. J. Bennett and the sec. is
G. W. Hall. These radical changes no doubt explain
a curious entry in this year’s balance-sheet: “Sun-
dry accounts omitted from, and charges applicable
to, period ended March 31, 1912, £2709.” In the
table printed above the amount has been charged
against the past year; if, however, the £2709 is
charged against the previous year, things would look
like this: —
Deficit
\ Writ- (Exclu-
ten sive of
Mar., Loss. Dividends. Off. Goodwill).
1912 .. £2514 7\ p.c. = £975 Nil £3489
Profit.
1913 . . 2234 Nil £.2165 3.420
when things like this happen, confidence
in the co.’s accounts is not a very robust vegetable
The present accounts may be right or the previous
ones may be right—this paper can’t, of course, say.
Anyway, the declared profit of .TTTT
nomma . The co. now discloses that as at A P T' v
1912, leases and goodwill were vah’ied ft Apnl E
Now, the leases have not long to run • P 45 8-
ously the amount at which they stand i’„ th' ,obvi-
must be written off by the time the leases h evn-°° ks
they are not an asset after that date T n P F*~
somathing against the leases is therefore », Charge
sary as to charge rent against the revenue- ? eces ’
necessary charge against leases and goodwill /^’ 8
latter is largely dependent on the leases! rl} (whlch
profit to £BO4. Depreciation of fnrrf-l duces the
and plant ( £735) further reduced t to
only flattering thing to be said about , Tbe
£Sm.r rt *? and ..«»
10,014
Surplus assets
These are the tangible assets to ’represent u’nll
£1 shares—-a shade under 7s. per sh ire w! 4 )?, 00
the goodwill is worth anything in the ™rW h T her
Bulletin doesn’t know. On the trading * u Ths
the past couple of years it seehis doubtful- vet
people ape making §o Much money out of Mem-
the public that the name bf Baris H0,, 50 „
be worth sbfiiething. House tb
*_ * *
The Tasmanian Permanent Pter-Lw
And TflusibEES’ AssobiAlioN (tiauncfestdn) ._ i^ UToas
Dividends and To Re- tte
Mar., 1905 .. £696’ 6 Ifgf' lflf’
Mat 1906 :: lltt 8 ” ” gj g
Sept., 1906 . . 818 8 ” Jg 3,3 7
Mar., 1907 . . 714 8 490 on? 5,715
Sept., 1907 . . 827 8 ” ” «0 407 a’?? 9
Mar., 1908 . . 841 8 490 491 s’ 4l6
Sept., 1908 . . 863 9 ” ” 39i
Mar., 1909 . . 666 9 479 tel Ut*
Sept., 1909 . , 605 9 ’ 472 111
Mar., 1910 ; ; 6 48 9 ” ” lit Js* 7,555
Sept., 1910 . . 968 9 ■ ” 479 Iqr Ha-
Mar., 1911 950 9 ” lH 8 ’ 221
sept.. i9ii .. ioo9 9 ”;; tit til MS
& ill! :: ffiti IS lit
M.r 1018 096 10 ” " 5 !|S JJjj JSIIH
Shares in such little cos. ks this are not for get-rirh
flujck Walhngfords. there is no chance of ah f
quick spring in thertt. Oil the other hand there is
k styady return with an upward tendency and Jt
£ U soon n 5b f lo l ln& 3 li Ur dapitaL 0f this dofslS
J& 8 9<>9 ls , l n recently-purchased freehold ptemises
( b Ut Tv h a re S a ,-i £4oo ,° mortgage, on that lot), P £5OOO
ip Treasury deposits and £13 ; 237 bn morteate
Money may be lost on the Mortgages no • ifi
a co. of this kind, knowing that safety is the J
thing, and with plenty of time to lookmmd sh uld
be pretty well armor-proof against losses through an
ordinary stemp in values. For the rest, the co j
fa 1 in through misreading a will or other document-
but, with experienced management that risk
large. As for business, the habit of Passing trus ll
work on to people who, are trained to it is bound
.especially when it becomes better realised that
|his kmd of trustee doesn’t die, and has nnf nn
flxed deposit with the Treasury to Snofl
behavior. And finally, from the fha "holder's po?n t
of view, there is the comforting fact that thmn?h
0 0 . W ( I NkS.W A te- AND Bullock Lsland Coal
Mine Writ-
Development ten
Expenditure. Off. Deficit.
Profit.
Mar 1908.. £5,377 £2447 £3021 £l4W>
St *B} till
*'Bl Itl To! S
Nominal
Sept., 1910.. 13 716 QRfic
Mar 1911 3666 1-698
Mar., 1911.. i 0,730 - 3746 8,682
I 10,294 3167 1
Sept., 1911.. . Four years’ divs. on pref. I 5 809
[ shares, £lO,OOO I
„ f 9,346 3167 i
Sept., 1912.. Four years’ divs. on pref. 1 1,988
l shares, £lO,OOO
f L 5,883 3244 {
Mar iQio I Three years’divs. on pref.
Mar., 1912.. 2 shares, £7500; 10 p.c. I 2,690
I div. on other shares, I
V £4437 J
Mar., 1913 . 10,137 { Ord. 10 P= c. = 4441 ) 8m
when * hat untidy table will have
to be pulled to pieces and re-made. The Bulletln
directnrV f PSl !? nS '!;i Hty for the untidiness. It is the
casfll f f !' ? hey work ed the old mine at New-
sfrtensfv l^L- St H n r dStlll bef ° re 0r al ™ st before the 7
, . y looked for a new one. While this new one
to iirv ene ?- up anc * the co - had precious little
to do it with—divs. of course had to stop. The co.
had amazing luck; it opened up its new Neath mine
e f S ?° Ck a l X ery llttle expense and was able to
out , tc J al before its old customers had had time
to forget all about it. The co. got at the new pro-
ty-nonr7 s e y en years ago; yet already it has paid
HP all lbe . back 124 per cent. divs. on the pref.
shares and for the past year paid 10 per cent, on all
o her shares. As at Mar., 1904, just before Neath
was bought, the surplus of liquid assets was £1421.
it is now £19,874—0r was on Mar. 31 last. Mean-
time the new mine has been bought, paid for and
equipped, a branch railway has been put in ( £2025),
a P, e divs. mentioned above have been paid; and
all the new capital that has been got in towards the
outlay has been Just under £5OOO. (Present capital
P er ce nt. cum. pref. shares,
on i m original £1 shares, and £lB,OOO in
20,000 new ’ shares paid to 18s.). The position
is a lot better than the shiftless, improvident old
policy deserves. It is satisfactory to know that that
policy has been discarded now, for the mine account
is being written down with the other assets. In other
words, as coal is dug out the net revenue isn’t
reckoned as all profit. The coal is the co.’s capital;
wherefore as the coal is chopped out and sold, a frag-
ment of the proceeds is put by to represent the capital
that doesn’t any longer exist in the shape of the stuff
Johnson stokes his insufficient engines with.
As time goes on the promoter seems to
get greedier and greedier. A eo. is being formed in
Melbourne to buy and work a patent tanning, process,
and, incidentally, a tannery to put it into operation.
The process, invented by one Gustav H.jalmer Lind-
strom, is owned by a Maori land tanning co., which
has “worked it with unprecedented success continu-
ously since December, 1910.” This co. takes, or is
prepared to take, 500 £lO shares and £lOOO cash
for the Commonwealth patent. For the mere right to
buy the patent, to be passed on to the co., the pro-
moters take 1000 £lO shares. Thus the people who
own the patent and have used it “with unprece-
dented success” for upwards of two years are pre-
pared to sell for £6OOO, in shares and cash, while the
people who merely have an option take £lO,OOO in
shares for acting as go-betweens and little else. For
what the vendors value at £6OOO the public therefore
is asked to pay £16,000, pins preliminary exes., under-
writing (20 p.c. or more), etc. All that the pro-
moters have done is to “demonstrate” the process
in Melbourne—which should have been quite un-
necessary if the thing has been in actual operation
in M.lj. Sydney is having a pretty sad experience of
the results of thus overloading cos. with paper. Here
are a few late quotations for £1 shares, put off
during the boom in “industrials” three years or so
back:—A.B.C., catering, 14s. (buyer); Marine Fibres


The Pacific Cable Board
(01 which the Commonwealth o{ Australia is
the largest part owner).
The direct route to UNITED KINGDOM. CAN ADA,
U.S.A., GERMANY, PACIFIC ISLANDS and
NEW ZEALAND.
RATES —U.K., 3/-; Canada and U.S.A.,
from 2/4; GERMANY, 3/-: FIJI, Bd. per word.
“VIA PACIFIC” (Signalled free of charge).
I*\ Sydney the Board has its own offices
at 40 Hunter Street, for dealing direct with the
Public for all INTERNATIONAL Cablegrams;
with special wire to Cable Terminus at Southport.
At this office all Standard Code-Books may be
consulted. At all other places in Commonwealth,
messages marked “VIA PACIFIC ” are accepted
at Post and Telegraph office. New Zealand cable-
grams. per word, “ VIA PACIFIC,” accepted
at all Telegraph Offices.
Cablegram Forms, Maps, Pamphlets, and all
information on application to
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Imperial Buildings, 408 Collins Street,
Melbourne; or Southport, Queensland.
FOj»
Established 34 Years.
THE Trustees, Executors
and Agency Co., Ltd.,
412 Collins St., Melbourne.
The Company acts as
EXECUTOR,
ADMINISTRATOR,
TRUSTEE,
AGENT.
Estates Admirtlstered Exceed £25,000,000.
Please call or write for Pamphlet.
JAS. BORROWMAN, General Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Manager.
Mine managers and engineers contemplating Re-
inforced Concrete construction should write for par-
ticulars of the Indented Steel Bar, which gives the
greatest bond, and is the strongest and cheapest re-
inforcement on the market. Used by the N. S.
Wales and Queensland railways for bridges, by the
Sydney Water and Sewerage Board for elevated re-
servoirs, by the N. S. Wales Government Architect,
and by all the leading architects. Should guaranteed
designs be required for concrete structures, our ex-
pert will be pleased to furnish plans and descrip-
tions. Apply, Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.*
* * * * #
In all smithing work high-class iron can be more
safely manipulated at varying temperatures than
steel or ordinary iron. It is for this reason that
Best Yorkshire Farnlev Iron is preferred by engi-
neers, where toughness, great strength and close
grain are needed. Whatever the specification, Iron
of the Farnley type does not vary, but is simply the
best that can be produced from what is really
wrought iron. “Farnlev” Bars of all sections sup-
plied from local stock bv Sole Agents of the Farnlev
Iron Comp., Ltd. Bell's Asbestos, Ltd., 315 Kent
Street, Sydney.*
* * * *
For rapid and accurate sizing of samples, the
Hoover Rapid Laboratory Sizer is unsurpassed. An
ordinary hand test over 12 different mesh screens
takes about 10 hours to complete, the Hoover Sizer
will make the same test in about half an hour. By
the use of one of these Sizers the saving in time
would, in a very short while, cover the small initial
cost of the machine. The machine can be dressed
with any series of screens. The Austral Otis Eng.
Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, will be pleased to furnish
particulars.* [4
Extract from Financier, dated London, September
2, 1911: “The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society is well recognised as an institution which
typifies the enterprise and energy of the land of its
birth, and not only in Australasia, but in Great
Britain and South Africa it has proved itself one
of the most progressive of the great Life Offices.”*
PIONEER WOOD PIPE is the most economical
pressure pipe on the market, as it is the most dur-
able. It saves money in first cost, freight and labor.
If kept wet it has a life of unlimited length. The
Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., 57 York Street
Sydney (Head Office).*
* * * *
The Water and Sewerage Board have accepted the
tender of Haes and Eggers, Ltd., for Pumping
Plant for the Sydney Water Supply. The plant will
consist of 3 Wolf Engines driving Gwynne Pump
through Citroen Gears. This is a great triumph
for this combination, as it was accepted against
world-wide competition. See page 3.*
To perfect the Petrol Engine is not the work of a
day. Hornsby’s have been many years experimenting
and investigating with their Petrol Engine, with the
result that to-day they can offer the world an engine
which for strength, reliability, simplicity and ease
of management is unequalled. In addition, their engine
is more economical in consumption, steadier in run-
ning, and has a larger wearing service, thus adding
greatly to its durability. R. Hornsby & Sons,
Limited, Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane.* [1
Harringtons Ltd. are now in a position to quote
the lowest fees for aTI kinds of assay, analytical and
metallurgical work. Expert advice on ore treatment,
smelting, bullion, refining, etc. This firm have now
a most up-to-date and completely fitted laboratory,
directed by a first-class analyst from Johnson and
Sons, London, assayers to the Bank of England,
H.M. Mint* The Council of India, etc. Any work of
the above nature entrusted to this reliable firm of
photographic manufacturers will receive immediate
and prompt attention. For full particulars and
prices apply to Harringtons, Ltd., 380 George Street,
Sydney.*
* * * #
J. W. STYLES & SON, Machinery Auctioneers,
Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 361 Collins
Street (main entrance), Melbourne. (J. W. Styles,
24 years expert salesman.)*
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 163 King Street, Syd-
ney.* [2
Messrs. Mephan Ferguson Proprietary, Limited, of
Footscray, Victoria, have secured the contract for
the supply of steel pipes required in connection with
the duplication of the Bombay Water Supply. The
contract amounts to over £226,000, and the pipes
to be used are of the locking bar type, of which Mr.
Mephan Ferguson is the inventor and patentee.
Engineers will be interested to note that this Aus-
tralian invention has been adopted in preference to
other classes of piping, after critical and searching
enquiries as to the merits of the various types of
water pipes made in the world. It is worthy of
note that all machinery required to carry out this
work has been designed and manufactured at the
firm’s Footscray Engineering Works, and will be
shipped to Bombay, where the pipes will be manu-
factured.*
Messrs. Babcock & Wilcox, Ltd., have received
the order for the supply of all the steam generating
plant and accessories for the electrification of the
Victorian Government Railways. The acceptance of
this firm’s tender was strongly recommended by Mr.
Merz, the English expert. The contract amounts to
£258,000.*
* * * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co.. 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Assayers, Mine Managers and Prospectors write
to H. B. Silberberg and Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, and at Melbourne, for particulars concerning
mining requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s
disc pulverisers to 200 mesh ; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospector's balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles : chemicals ; etc.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
(ss. shares), lOd. ; Bowron Bros., tanning, etc.,
11s. 73d. ; Harts, catering, 14s. 9d. ; Paris House,
catering, 6s. 7d. ; W. E. Smith, pr.nting, etc., 13s.
6d. And others—-Sanders, Sutton and Whitehead, for
example—have disappeared altogether.
‘ Paddy Lackey” : The Zinc Corporation
is hard at it getting the water out of the lower levels
of the old Sunny Corner (N.S.W.), over which the co.
has a working option. That unreliable authority, “the
old hand,” stated that only one drive had been put in
below the No. 4 tunnel, but it turns out that there
are something like 1300 ft. of drives, and as these
have been full of water for nearly 20 years, they will
not be very pretty to look upon when baled out.
I he co. wants to test whether the ore body continues
down. There is a large quantity of ore in sight in
the No. 4 and higher levels, but not enough, it is
alleged, to justify the big expenditure on the plant
necessary to treat this class of ore. The Sunny
Corner ore body is an erratic animal; it varies in
thickness from 6ft. to 60ft., and in places it runs
out quite flat. Whether there are any more such
patches is for the co. to find out, and upon the result
the future of Sunny Corner depends. At the Nevada,
the Sulphide Co.’s option, the diamond drill is down
about 150 ft. It will take about six months to test
this property.
The warring factions in the B. 11. Junction
North compromised, and one director from each party
—representing, roughly, the Sydney and Melbourne
interests—was elected to the Board. The bitterness
over the unsatisfactory figures in the last balance-
sheet was partly removed by the directors’ assurance
that the half-year had' to stand the racket of the
over-valuation of the previous half-year’s products to
the extent of about £lO,OOO. Things are going to
be all right now, of course. In the case of the
Junction North, the man who likes his sleep undis-
turbed will “pass” until things are all right. And
then he had perhaps better still “pass” in case they
don t stay right, or lest the yarn that they are right
should once more turn out to be mere rumor.
* * * *
Amalgamated Hill End (N.S.W.) has got
partial suspension for three months. By the end of
that time the Warden seems to think the co. should
know whether it is going to live or die. The co.
has only £lO,OOO left, and, as the search for veins
in the old upper workings and their extensions has
failed, and as the retreatment of old tips has merely
resulted. in a loss, the only visible hope is to go
ahead with the lower tunnel, and the number of men
can be put jn there is limited. The £lO,OOO
won t do this work, but the people behind the show
reckon they may be able to get some more money.
* * * *
Mt. Boppy, the leading gold mine of
N.S.W., has, in the last few years, paid £419 582
on a capital of £121,000. That was mostly
when things were going smoothly, with an oxidised
ore that didn’t give overmuch trouble in treating.
Lately, however, a new plant was put up to handle
the sulphides, and this plant has been mopping up
the working capital, which was never too big even
in the days of large profits. To make matters worse,
a reserve was never popular with this co. Divi-
dends were reduced, but the pruning process wasn’t
severe enough. The result is that, when the plant
didn’t jig to the tune right away, and when other
trouble blew along—such as increased wages,
drought, non-delivery of machinery, etc. —the co.’s
pockets didn’t take long to bulge with bills instead
of cash. A proposal by some sensible person, to
entirely suspend divs., met with a chorus of shrieks
from the brethren who had grown accustomed to
pleasant dividends of 40 or 50 p.c. p.a. . The idea
now is to bring in fresh capital by the creation of
30,000 10 p.c. cumulative pref. shares of £1 each,
such new shares to also rank equally with the old in
any ordinary dividend distribution. This agreeable
little game is to proceed until the preference shares
receive 100 p.c. in dividends from this latter Source.
Then and then only will the aforesaid preference
right of 10 p.c. p.a. be dropped. In view of such
terms the assurances about the new plant being per-
fectly designed, and about the mine never looking
better, don’t carry conviction with them.
The leavings of the famous Lambing Flat
rush (N.S.W.) are to have the acid applied to them
by Frank Powell, who raked in a working option for
a wad of free shares. The Melbourne public has
now rushed into an option co. on the strength of the
name of the said Powell. If he can report well of
the prospects after a working trial, there will, of
course, be a bigger float. Still, he has to recollect that
he is now vendor, more than critic; so anything he
does should be topped off by outside opinion. Other
Melbourne people tried to get the Lambing Flat
ground in the misty past, but local talent stepped in
ahead, and did nothing worth mentioning. If it’s
anything, it will be a dredging or sluicing proposi-
tion.
Bad luck still pursues the Stanthorpe
Prop, bucket dredge, on the N.S.W.-Queensland
border, the latest mishap being the overturning of the
dredge itself, through a hole having somehow got
punched in the side. What with dams breaking and
various dredge troubles, the co. has had an unhappy
life for the past few months. Under ordinary condi-
tions, the ground should return a fair profit, but the
co.’s misfortunes must have punched a hole in some-
thing besides the dredge.
* * * *
General manager Bellinger, of the Great
Cobar, got back to Australia last week by the Ven-
tura. He will find a considerable mess underground
when he turns up at the mine, though the trouble is
mainly in old workings.
A net profit of £6862 was realised by
Golden Ridge (W.A.) for the half-year ended March,
and this and the amount brought forward made a
total of £7468 to deal with. Dividends absorbed
£7301, leaving a balance of £167. When the half-
year closed, the co. had cash assets amounting to
£12,757, which it hopes to increase to £20,000 by
September, provided shareholders agree to the
Board’s recommendation to forego dividends. No
definite estimate of ore reserves is given, but the
manager believes the present output can be main-
tained for at least six months. He computes the re-
coverable value of the residues on hand at £2140.
Several new properties were inspected, sampled and
turned down during the half-year, and the co. is still
on the look out for a mine to take the place of the
one which is slowly passing away.
* * * *
A bullish report was presented at the
Golden Horseshoe meeting in London on April 21.
Future prospects were daubed in glowing colors, re-
cent developments were window-dressed, and the chair-
man rose to the occasion by announcing that a dividend
of ss. would shortly be paid. Where is the money
to come from? A year ago the co. had £54,449 in
cash and bullion, but owed £27,022 to sundry credi-
tors and on debentures. Since then visible profits
haven’t amounted to one-third of what is required to
pay the proposed dividend, and the debenture debt
is redeemable by annual drawings of not less than
£12,500. Either the Board has something up its
sleeve, or else it has made a promise that it will
repent.
Chaffers (W.A.) has decided on another
reconstruction, with a probable assessment of Is. 6d.
per share. As there are 663,396 issued shares, this
will bring in nearly £50,000. Now the co. wants
something else. The wealth dug out of the mine to
date, together with that wrung from shareholders,
has been frittered away in equipment, patches on the
equipment, and underground work. Shareholders
have received nothing. Could the co. manage to get
in some more brains?
* * * *
Bullfinch Prop. (W.A.) is pushing ahead
with additions to its treatment plant. A second
tube mill has been fixed in position, and five head of
stamps (making 20 head in all) are nearly ready to
drop. At 300 ft. underground, 22ft. of 16dwt. ore
has been exposed, but the mine authorities are doubt-
ful as to whether they are crosscutting or driving on
the body, which is the main northern-series lode. In
all probability further work will show' that they are
driving on it.
Marvel Loch (W.A.) is spending nearly
all it can lay its hands on in prospecting its Comet
option at Southern Cross, and apparently to help
the market a bit the unofficial announcement is made
that a crushing will be put through at an early
date. By this it would appear that the tendency to
gamble in the shares, irrespective of their real value,
has again taken hold of the crowd that dabbles in
this stock. There is scarcely any development done
in the property so far, yet apparently the slightest
improvement in the value of the reef, or a small
crushing probably made up of picked ore, is to be
used as bait. The small man had better look out.
The life, death and resurrection of Great
Fingall (W.A.) was related the other day to a
Bulletin man by W. J. Loring. He said that at
the No. 13 level the big shoot of ore which boomed
the mine as a gold-producer and dividend-payer
snuffed out, and the ore body formed itself into
fingers, which gave up the ghost a bit lower down.
The payable ore worked at the eleventh level ex-
tended 1300 ft. in a continuous stope, whereas 300 ft.
below that point values had passed away. Believing
that the shoot had descended into Gehenna or some-
where in that direction, he decided to go in for deep-
sinking. A winze was started, but for the first
300 ft. nothing of value was met with. Then payable
stuff was struck and continued down to what is now
known as the No. 17 level. Subsequently free gold
was found in the plat at No. 15 level. The winze
followed down the footwall of the reef in unpayable
values, but when the 18th level was reached cross-
cutting to the hanging wall revealed from 4ft. to
6ft. of good stuff. Since then the reef has been
proved for a horizontal distance of 433 ft. on the
No. 17, and for 488 ft. on the No. 18 level. It is still
going down, and has been sunk on a further 90ft. or
thereabouts, in ore averaging from 455. to 50s. per
ton. Within the last few months the No. 16 level
has been extended south in good values, and this
ore, together with the fine stretch opened up at the
Nos. 17 and 18 levels, is, in Loring’s opinion, the
continuation of the shoot worked with such profit
down to the No. 13 level, although there is a blank
of some hundreds of feet between the old and new
makes of stone. He urges mine-owners not to lose
heart when they bump against a poor zone, and,
above all, to believe in the resurrection of the dead.
* * » *
Mountain Queen (W.A.) has now in-
creased its monthly profits to between £l3OO and
£lBOO, but the whole of this surplus is being ex-
pended on the Transvaal leases, acquired last year.
The experimental work in connection with the treat-
ment of the arsenical ores in the latter property is
practically complete, and the erection of a plant at
an early date is talked of. Lake View and Oroya
have the biggest say in the Queen and its satellite,
but so far it has been all outlay and no return, and
this is likely to continue for some time to come.
* * * *
The public is warned to be careful of Ora
Banda (W.A.). Several shows “on the same line of
reef” as the Victorious leases are for sale, and others
are being got ready for any little flutter that may
come along. One or two have been optioned. There
isn’t much to be seen in any of them, but, of course,
the most is being made of the rich shoot in the
Victorious, and the fact that it contains a little tel-
luride. Apart from the said shoot, the Victorious
ore doesn’t average £1 per ton, and there are others,
the owners whereof are looking for buyers, which
don’t assay as well as that. At best, speculation in
anything on the field, apart from the Victorious and
the Gimlet, is only a gamble, and there isn’t any
certainty of even the Gimlet turning out. well.
* * * *
Edna May reserves in sight are given at
20,000 tons, worth 82s. 6d. per ton, or £82,500 in
all. Treatment costs 20s. per ton, leaving net
£62,500. Shares issued, 42,850 ; market value at
355. each, say £75,000; apparent over-valuation,
£12,500. But the estimate for reserves is for ore
above the 71ft. level. Below that the winze has
proved good gold for a depth of 55ft.. 114 tons
taken from below 71ft. yielding 2850 z. gold. Manager
Williams realises, however, that the district has a
nasty name for patchiness, so his method of exclud-
ing “probable” ore below the 71ft. level is to be
commended.
* * * *
“Bar None” (W.A.) 1 Local paper gives
a good account of what the tributor has done for
Kalgoorlie. Five years ago when Chaffers was not
expected to live, one Prosser found the West lode,
and in the following 12 months extracted, with
others, £49,000, and paid the chloroformed co.
£7OOO in royalties. In 1910. Lennel and party dis-
covered something on the Central Boulder! and in
10 months dug £29,000 out of a property which
had been unsuccessfully worked for yedrs, and
handed £4280 to the co. as its share. Some months
ago, another party found something else on the same
lease, and since then the co.’s cut has averaged £9O
a week. North Kalgurli has been in the hands of
tributors since 1906, and they have recovered
£135,600, and paid £20,600 in royalties. Before
tributors came on the scene the mine was a source
of expense instead of revenue. Tributors caft also
claim to have put Hannan’s Reward on its feet after
a decidedly groggy career. Altogether they have
taken considerably over £200,000 out of the mine,
and have enabled the co. to pay a dividend and
build up a reserve fund of several thousand pounds.
Oroya Links is another case in point. During the
first half of 1911 it was worked at a loss. Then
Rutter came along and located a rich pipe of ore.
From this he and his mates obtained £34,700 iff
six months, and handed the po. £7400. Since then,
instead of working at a loss, the co. has shown a
profit of £40,000. There are others, including the
Paringa, which was brought to life again by the
discovery of Geach’s lode by a tributor of that
name, and the Associated Northern, which for the
past year has been making profits out of tributors.
* * * *
One of Bull’s last attempts to work the
deep leads of Victoria has been transferred to a
local co. called the Beaufort. The mine is amongst
the Hope group near Beaufort, and the shaft is near
the junction of the Waterloo and the main Beaufort
lead. Up to last year it was worked by Carter’s
Deep Leads, Ltd., which was floated in London when
8., M. and Co. were pumping water and expecting
gold at Moolort. Carter’s (it was a family affair)
had a long stretch of leads but a short stretch of
cash, and loss of level, taking wash out before it
had time to drain, and want of capital to prospect
the main Beaufort lead or put in a reef-drive to
work the richer tributaries brought things to an
end. The new co. got the whole show for £l6OO
and a few shares paid up to Is. 6d.
•*•***
“Jock” Finlayson has about got the Long
Tunnel (Vic.) on the move again, so the next music
to cheer the hearts of the Walhalla mountaineers
tvill be the rattle of the battery. Herman, the
Government Geologist, has a big say in the mining.
He believes in pushing down the shaft; also, as he is
not at all satisfied that the old co. actually proved
the course of Cohen’s reef at the bottom level, a
hunt will be made for the eastern reef. A great deal
of cleaning up has been done, and faces of quartz
exposed show that there is a lot of solid stuff to come
and go on. One of the features of Cohen’s Reef all
through has been the persistence of two main seams
of mineral and gold. These carried down level after
level, so long as the reef hugged the dyke formation.
When it broke away from the dyke or made flat, gold
values tailed off. It is the lack of association of the
reef with the dyke in the bottom levels that has led
to the late poor results. Finlayson knows the mine
from top to toe, and when he retired to try his luck
in the northern districts he left prospects which now
will be followed up. He will probably do well if
he also tries the shallow ground between the old
South Long Tunnel and the old vertical shaft, where
a big block of undeveloped lode country has never
had a pick put into it.
Clarence United, Bendigo (Vic.), has
come up from the deeps to poke out, as South New
Moon is doing, in the old run of spurs at about
1000 ft. The co. has had one or two disappoint-
ments so far in this part, but the tipsters like the
outlook from the co.’s Argus shaft. Once upon a
time Clarence shares were up at 955. ; now they
hang round the 7s. mark, with buyers shy. But the
market is sensitive, and if gold is hit in the. New
Argus ground a spurt is sure.
Ajax Daylesford (Vic.) lias benefited
mightily from the prospecting work done on its
boundary by Ajax North. At the bottom of the shaft
of the latter there is a big make of low-grade quartz.
Ajax, therefore, pushed out its most northerly drive
towards the Ajax North, and from the face is cross-
cutting to see if it can pick up the Ajax North
shoot of stone. A development here is badly needed,
as pretty well all the best gold of the mine came in
shoots well away to the south, hundreds of feet dis-
tant from the Ajax North boundary. By the way,
the little fact that the shoots of gold in the district
pitch to the south has to be recollected when measur-
ing up some of the pup deals and floats of the
Daylesford field.
* * * *
Gympie (Q.) is disheartened because its
big-gun, the Scottish Gympie, has discharged 106 men
and closed down No. 1 shaft pending the installation
of more powerful winding machinery. The Scottish
has been crushing 7000 tons per month, but will
ease off now. Other Gympie mines are in the dol-
drums, except No. 1 North Columbia Smithfield,
which has just crushed 880 tons for 4120 z., and
handed out a dividend of 2d.
Usually the abandonment of a mine is
marked by returns descending from ounces to penny-
weights. A marked exception is the Louisa, May-
town (N.Q.), towards the resurrection of which an
effort is now being made. Official returns in the
Warden’s office, Cooktown, show the last three
crushings taken out were in 1882 —January, 40 tons
for 86oz. 9dwt. ; March, 80 tons for 170 oz. ; Decem-
ber, tons for 1390 z. lOdwt. The gold was worth
£4 per ounce. Since that 13oz. stone was broken
not another hole has been bored.
“Kobbi”: The French “Rare Metals ”
co., after fighting abnormal weather conditions, has
at last got its plant shipshape. Away back in Octo-
ber, 1910, a gentleman of France dropped in on
Wolfram camp (N.Q.), and offered the gougers a
price for their dumps. And, as recorded in The
Bulletin thereabouts, the dump-owners said “Yes.”
In fact, they said it twice in case they were not
heard the first time. Now the job of plant-erecting
is finished. The co. proposes to treat the dumps
for wolfram, molybdenite and bismuth, and reckons
that there are about 60,000 tons to start on. The
mine-owners will also Supply stuff, but the co. does
not intend at present to do any mining itself. The
Irvinebank Co., a most deserving old pioneer of the
north, had a mill at 'Wolfram, but was handicapped
by the cost of carting the ore, which ate up the pro-
fits. The new folk intend to climb this problem by
aerial tramways, which it has installed. So Wol-
fram Camp, which has been hit by several depres-
sions of late, now thinks that it can see light ahead.
The day of the gouger is, of course, past, and
nothing save systematic mining can keep the place
on the move. Most likely, the diamond drill will
be called in to say what there is at a depth. Even
now the monthly results are not exactly grim read-
ing. For instance, during March the field treated
331 tons of ore, which yielded 2 tons 14cwt. of
molybdenite ( £658) and four tons odd of bismuth
( £376), while 18cwt. wolfram were received from
16 tons of ore ( £95). A lesser star in the rare-
metal firmament is the Mount Carbine field, which
is about 24 miles by airline from Port Douglas and
about two days’ journey from Cairns. Here, also,
the Irvinebank Co., has been something of a pioneer,
and has a 10-head battery. But want of water is
the bugbear. Local residents have a scheme in
mind to bring water for power and domestic pur-
poses from the McLeod Falls, on the Mitchell River,
about eight miles off. Bananaland’s third hope in
this business was Bamford, nearer the Cairns line
than the other two fields. But the third hope and
Bamtord are so near dead that the difference isn’t
noticeable.
* * * *
Mills’ United, Charters Towers, talks of
deeper sinking. Crushings from the workings down
to 2600 ft. on the Day Dawn eastern shoot have
become poor, and the deepest level (No. 15) has not
yet proved much good. The concern has a long
purse, and it clings almost pathetically to the idea
that payable reefs live below the long levels extend-
ing to the eastern and western boundaries. The rich
upper crust gave shareholders £645,000.
* * * *
Brilliant Block, Charters Towers, has
sunk its underlay shaft 100 ft. below the 2000 ft. level.
It will have 700-odd feet to go to reach No. 4
level in the Brilliant Deeps. No. 4 is being con-
tinued into the Brilliant Block’s lease, but pros-
pects are only moderate. There is another hope
that the hanging-wall reef will be met with in the
Brilliant Block; but, considering the capricious
nature of this section of the Brilliant formation, pros-
pects are decidedly speculative. To keep the kettle
boiling, Brilliant Block issues 50,000 new shares of
10s. each, paid up to ss.
* * * *
Mt. Lyell directors expect to resume
dividends in December.
J.P.M. : In the first place the co. wouldn t
get anything at all for the zinc; in that ore it’s
merely an impurity. The other losses vary with the
character of the ore; you could rely on a deduction
of 3oz. to 4oz. silver and 5 p.c. of the lead.
A great mistake, when erecting new works or re-
arranging old ones, is often made in constructing the
building and installing machinery ere looking round
for means of transport of the raw material, half-
manufactured and finished goods. Messrs. Adolf
Uleichert and Co., of London, have issued various
catalogues and leaflets, illustrating and describing a
few of the many transport systems and plants which
they have sirpplied, and which show the solution of
the transport question and the advantages of em-
ploying such appliances. W. and J. Lempriere,
Melbourne and Sydney, are the Australian representa-
tives, and would be pleased to hear from those in-
terested. A specially trained engineer is retained to
consult and advise.*


Under
Royal
Warranf
To H.M.
Kin 6
George V
CHAMPAGNE
m
CHampaCW*.
OiailesHeidsic*
Reims
cy
Ladies’
Hairdressing Rooms
at Farmer’s.
The becoming arrangement of the hair, the
preservation of the complexion, the care of
the hands—all these are essential to
woman’s beauty, and receive expert
attention at Farmer’s Hairdressing Rooms
for Ladies. Hairdressing, Hairworking,
Shampooing, Singeing, Scalp and Face
Massage, Manicuring, Chiropody, etc., are
undertaken by skilful specialists, assisted
by an experienced staff.
Hairdressing appointments for social
functions can be made by ’phone or letter.
Telephone: City 72 (five lines).
FARMER’S, SYDNEY
Pitt, Market and George Sts.
BUCHANAN’S
BlacK (El White.
'%y.
GRAND SPIRIT
“ Black & White ” is indeed a “ grand spirit.”
Matured for years in Scotland before shipment.
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, June 2. 1013.
My Dear Arini, —
J. Wayman, an ex-Anglo Indian, recently
of Perth (W.A.), is looking round this con-
gested town for office space. The premises
are to be small and unassuming in demean-
or as a beginning to the Ceylon Tourist
Bureau business. Wayman, who also repre-
sents Westralia in the matter of tourist and
land settlement inquiries, will talk Colombo
cinnamon groves or Westralian soil to all
comers and endeavor not to get his two jobs
mixed.
There drifted into this port the other week
a young Anglo-Indian who bears all the out-
ward possibilities of being a desirable immi-
grant. Donald Scobie —how many sugges-
tions of “bens” and “lochs” and kilts and
usquebaugh there are in the name of
Donald!—threw up his interests in tea-
planting in Ceylon and realised his cash —
a sum that ran into four figures. He made
up 'his. mind that Westralia was a land flow-
ing with auriferous streams, and it is cer-
tainly streaming with a little more aurif-
erousness now than it did when Scobie
arrived. He promptly lost his cash there in
an investment that grew up in a night like
the vegetable umbrella of Jonah, and was
eaten by a worm in the morning by way of
completing the parallel. The original worm
that ate a tree at a meal must have been
sizeable enough, but his successor of to-day
can eat a whole land speculation in half the
time. Scobie, who is a linguist of some size,
m a son of Colonel Scobie, of the Black
Watch. He is a brother of the man of that
name who is in a regiment that wears plaid
trousers. This relative is the author of a
book called. “Traditions of Highland Regi-
ments,” which has rather a vogue amongst
the Kilties. Also he is a nephew of General
Sir lan Hamilton.
Manager A. J. B. Irvine, the Auckland
jmud the Union S.S. Co., is here on a
holiday. He used to manage the Fiji end
of the same company’s craft.
The Auckland branch of the Bank of New
Zealand has just welcomed back to its
ledgers Manager Buckleton, after a long
holiday hereabouts.
Lieut.-Col. White, of a cavalry regiment
stationed in India, is recorded as one of
the passengers on the incoming Dutch packet
lasman. This is less interesting than the
newspaper report that the hurried White,
who is out here on furlough, has expressed
vl ( 6ws on the Jap. Question. He affirms
that there is not the remotest chance of
Japan invading Australia or any other
foreign country.” Which doubtless, was why
the Japs, aidn t invade Ivorea, all reports
on the subject being a mere optical illusion.
Colonel _ White’s business is to keep the
dusky inhabitants of Indian frontier vil-
lages m order at the point of the sword, but
seeing that there isn't the remotest chance of
anybody invading India (at least I suppose
not, after reading the Colonel’s own re-
, marks quoted above) it seems to me that he
must get his salary by something almost
akin to false pretences. In this amazingly
peaceful world where everybody is firmly
resolved not to attack somebody, what need
is there for colonels?
Evelyn W rench, who has been stamping
up and down the fertile face of Australasia
as hon. organiser of the Overseas’ Club, is
departing hence. He was snared to
speak at the Millions Club middav
w ack ’i. the other day - The Pith, of the
Wrench comments must have fallen on
stony ground paved with macadam. The
original notion of a Sydney Million Club has
been more or less disguised as a N.S.W.
a sn ir 'v Bllt . there ’ s a strong Harbor flavor
still lingering round the reported utter-
ances of its leading orators. Mr. Wrench a
globe-trotting Englishman, seems to have
grasped the Australian national point of
view. When he sat down after making his
speech to the Millions, they may have won-
dered within themselves why they’d ever
hi A m to stand up. As'a believer in a
White Australia, an advocate of the Aus-
tralian unit of John Bull’s navy, and a
severe critic of Canadian and Maoriland
Dreadnought methods, and as a person who
is up against Tory traditions in a new
country, the much travelled Wrench must
i aTe r>M?. ne off like an unexpected bomb at
the Billion party.
The Very Rich Eadith Walker keeps two
secretaries or something of the kind search-
ing into the facts of every reasonable de-
mand for help. She made up her mind
without looking up Shakspeare’s record,
that he was too dead to want anv
himncml assistance. Having stood out of
the Tercentenary hobby. Miss Walker had
so much the more cash left over to give to
the IjYing, who won’t have a tercentenary
for 200 years or thereabouts. President
Neville Mayman. of the Benevolent Societv
r aS j^Ao a £ ted ’ without anesthetics, a cheque
for fnOO from the lady of Yaralla. This, she
explains m self-defence, is given for a
special cause—the Benevolent centenary
fio nm he r rpose to T klot off the map a
£12,000 mortgage. The Royal Hospital for
Women, and the Renwick, for infants, are
included in its benefactions.
Mrs. Alex. Gordon leaves Sydney for her
native Welsh hills about the end of this
month. Her sister, Miss Thomas, who has
been here on a prolonged visit, and the
chubby Gordon youngsters go Waleswards
also —the latter for inspection in the Thomas
homestead. Justice Gordon, who isn’t due
for a judicial holiday for a few years, will
console himself with bulky legal tomes and
reflections in a horsehair wig during the
family’s absence.
From London comes a line to say that
Rosamund Bailey, a daughter of Col. Bailey,
of Timaru (M.L.), was recently married to
W. Oscar Timme, of London, W. The bride’s
white satin shimmer was heavily ’broidered
with orange-blossom foliage. The mist of
white tulle that veiled the bridal plumage
floated to the lee of the square-tailed court
train. This was lined with blush pink. The
bridesmaidens, Freda Whelan and Clotilde
and Madeleine Bailey, were also blush rose,
in diaphanous draperies, top-dressed with
cute little coatees of lace. The bride’s uncle,
dentist Herbert Bailey, now in London, is
well known hereabouts.
Mrs. Herbert Harris, wife of the Crown
Prosecutor, died, after a long illness, the
other evening, at Rose Bay. The late Mr*
Harris was a daughter of Dr. Grove, one of
the first medicoes to take up the germ theory.
She dabbled in the Inky Way, and had a
few works of fiction to her credit.
The Bulletin has long contended that
compulsory military training and an Aus-
tralian navy are more helpful to the grey
Old Mother overseas than all the Empire
Day flag-flapping that Mr. Bruce Smith
ever flapped and speechified. Confirmation
of the soundness of this contention is
always being supplied by the adherents of
the bunting on the backyard clothes-line.
Out of many petty wrangles, at innumer-
able State school orgies of bun and banner,
space only allows one sample to trickle into
this letter. A Paddington alderman, at a
meeting of the Council, expressed his in-
dignation that the local Mayor and Mayoress
had not been invited to the kiddies’ Empire
Day flag-flutter in Victoria Barracks. In-
deed, worse than this occurred. Scarcely
one member of the council knew that the
function was taking place. The Empire
may, therefore, be supposed to be in some
danger. The Mayor and Mayoress of Pad-
dington, a crowded suburb of Sydney, Aus-
tralia, were not present when the Padding-
ton school child attempted to save the
Empire by waving the baby oriflamme or
the penny tin eagle.
The Civil Ambulance Ball occurs on July
10 in the Town Hall. Polo will furiously
smite the quaking sands of Kensington
about that time. Hence the prevalence of
country matrons on the ball committee.
Mrs. J. Osborne, Mrs. Reg White, Mrs.
Leslie Willsallen (Gunnedah), Mrs. J.
Nivison (Cassilis), and other mutton and
wool ladies will lend their aid. Hon. Sec.
Mrs. Mac Neil Simpson sent along an in-
genious ball poster, tabloid size, in black
and white. At a hurried glance it looked
like a threat from the Black Hand, with
sudden death inset in the centre. After
carefully dissecting same, the inference is
that the apparently dead body lying in the
foreground, has fallen off a bob-tailed polo
pony which is making for the horizon. The
man with the bag, who is shod with seven-
league slippers, flies across the foreground.
He isn’t bent on robbing or beheading the
fallen, but has ideas about rendering first
aid. Several yards of fresh air between his
heels indicate that, he is putting up a tre-
mendous pace on his errand of mercy. Like
Jehu, the grandson of Nimshi, he ambu-
lances furiously. Ball tickets are marked
21s. each. The town will be thronged with
affluent graziers (in spite of the allegation
that the country is going to the rabbits) in
July. A pound and a shilling isn’t a ruinous
tax on polo-playing magnates who can take
the change in a ball supper sprayed with
champagne.
. Fairlie Cunningham, the bright Sydney
girl who hurried off to Europe a few years
ago, has struck more than oil in London.
The cable remarks that her bust of “Better-
not” Wallington is now on view at the
Academy. As private sec. to the Queen,
an d 18-carat gold walking-stick-in-waiting
to George Rex, the diplomatic Wallington
is in touch with affluent persons who can
have their chests qr their profiles sculptured
without haggling, over terms. If the Better-
not nose and smile are bronzed or plastered
to their owner’s satisfaction, the Australian
girl ought to get a rush of orders. She
might even get the iob of reproducing the
immovable Guelph coiffure, which never
gives wav to passing fits of fashion.
The Suburban and Country Goff Associa-
tions has promised to donate a number of
second-hand goff sticks to the new muni-
cipal links out Moore Park way. This burst
of generosity will occur when the clubhouse
materialises. Will Mayor Cocks and
Deputy Town Clerk Layton, who take a
fatherly interest in the municipal goff in-
fant, see that the clubhouse-is burglar proof
before these treasures are housed there?
Hamlet must have been out of town when
the Shakspeare Ball shook the rafters of the
Town Hall. Solid electroplate sets of Kings,
Queens, Knights and Knaves tramped round
without so much as the calves of Hamlet’s
father’s ghost to remind us of the melan-
choly Dane. Hamlet is such an old-estab-
lished favorite that his absence at the re-
cent gathering, unless he stalked the ram-
parts of Ann Hathaway’s back fence, must
have been an unavoidable accident.
The Shakspeare Society got its muscle up
in the matter of producing as much com-
pressed or corned Bard at the defunct ball
as it could hurl together. President Hawkins
arranged the Henry VIII. party, and stood
behind the bolster that built up the front
half of Harry’s royal person. The seraglio
was correctly considered dead, or divorced,
or not yet crowned. Only Anne Boleyn, very
fidgety about the fit of her head on her
shoulders, went with her lord to the sand-
wich buffet. Walter Bentley was a haughty
Wolsey. Five or six other sets were arranged
by, or for, the Society, which worked over-
time to put a few extra coppers in the Ter-
centenary slot.
The Royal Roller Rink (Moore Park)
opens its portals on June 5 in Moore Park.
The management has taken the Hall of
Industries (Agricultural Grounds) on a
lease Having turned its inside into a rink,
the person who wants to roll over a good
floor will take the first chill off the premises
on Thursday evening in this week.
The Musical Association of N.S.W. met
together in harmony to greet the American
singer Bispham last week. The Australia
drawing-room was the scene of this festive
gathering, which buried discords and inter-
musical feuds for the occasion. Musicians
Cairos de Rego and H. Wale stood at the
receipt of invitation cards and passed the
owners forward to clutch the baritone’s
strong right hand. Manager Freddie Ship-
man hummed round on his own orbit—and
produced extra chairs when required, as
rapidly as if he carried surplus furniture in
his watch-pocket or had grand pianos down
his back. Mrs. Freddie’s handsome mop of
auburn hair was gathered up under a re-
markable little toque, and she trailed a
streak of ermine round her small shoulders.
Her height above sea-level is about sft.
She attains this altitude standing on the
soles of the smallest size in boots ever worn
outside a kindergarten. Mrs. Francis Allard,
pianist Laurence Godfrey Smith, Mrs. John
Lemmone, Conductor Bradley and Eva Gau-
thier were gathered together in one place.
The Ottawa lark is still poised on the wing
in this town. She revoked her previous de-
parture, but definitely removes her French
hats in the Tasman on June 14. The Dutch
boat politely hugs this shore till the little
Gauthier finishes her warble in the Town
Hall on the afternoon of the sailing.
The Quakers have given very few pro-
fessionals to the stage or concert platform.
Howe, an actor who was with the elder
Irving, was one of the rare exceptions.
Bispham, whose name was originally Anglo-
Saxon Biscopham—comes of ancient Eng-
lish stock. Later his folk took to broad
brims and drab consciences, and long coun-
tenances before setting out with Penn for the
New Land of America. As a small boy he
showed his first revolt against the Quaker
faith by removing his hat in the Philadelphia
Friends Meeting House. After the service
his grandfather called him to one side. “I
noticed, my grandson, thee did remove thy
hat, a custom against the traditions of the
Friends.” To which David valiantly re-
plied that he had taken off his hat because,
being indoors, he no longer needed it on his
head. “Seeing that thy grandfather is an
elder in the faith, hadn’t thee better keep
on thy hat, for part of the time anyway,
to conform with our ways?” So the
strenuous younger and the gentle elder made
a handsome compromise in the theology that
whisked round the Hat.
Pianist Harry Gilbert, who has accom-
panied baritone Bispham over about 146,000
miles of earth during the past three years, is
also his accompanist in song. The result of
this time and mileage is an expert accom-
panist who follows the roll of the Bispham
organ like a sympathetic sigh. It’s the
best combination of piano and vocal
chords we’ve had in this town for a
long time. Sometimes Gilbert uses a score
—mostly he only uses his memory, and
watches the singer’s mobile mouth for his
cue. Gilbert is a dreamy-eyed young U.S.
citizen with an aesthetic taste in neckties and
a carefully modulated manner. He owns to
a taste for golf, and likes walking as an
exercise not conducive to cramp in the
fingers.
Baritone David Bispham gripped his audi-
ence at his first appearance in this city.
His voice has the deep notes of a ’cello when
it travels several fathoms below the middle
register. The upper tones ring clear and
full —a phenomenon as rare as the still
girlish sweetness of Melba’s voice, after a
singer has put on the girth of more than
40 summers. Bispham’s great career in
opera lies behind him. His future as a one-
man show —reciter, singer, humorous speech-
maker, and commentator on each item in the
programme—appears to stretch ahead across
an interminable area of success. He is, in
addition to the above, actor, chorus, leading
gentleman, call boy, and fun-maker. In-
tensely dramatic music such as Schumann’s
“The Two Grenadiers” rang out like a
trumpet call the other night.
“Hear me! Ye Winds and Waves”
(Handel) opened the first Bispham concert
with a brilliant sample of this artist’s superb
production of every note in his voice-box
What Juliuss Caesar didn't sav to the wimk
and waves (“Scipio”) includes n rW- ds
in which he falls, during opera P ST
low F or thereabouts. Hood’s “Sone-’nf D *v, a
Shirt,” Bobbie Burns’s ? ‘Killi?Li
(music by Wetzler) Kipling’s martial wSrds
in Danny Deever,” with Dannv’s hVw
in the middle of it (set to music by £ g
rosch), were featured at the opened concm
If tlm ohameleon-hke change of color-ton e ;
in each item can be said to allow one or two
efforts to stand apart from their fellow,
Bispham prefers English as the medium of
ills art.
As a talker who rolls out a flood of aneo
d 9 te in deep, sonorous tones, with extraor
dinary vivacity, David Bispham is out of
the ordinary. Of Jenny Lind he has an
evergreen memory As a youth, then studv
mg in Italy, the ’Murkan baritone freauerX
snatched a short holiday in London On Z
occasion he took a letter of introduction to
the Swedish nightingale who had moulfPH
a old lady. She was Mrs
Otto Goldsmidt, and the magnet that drew
musicians of all sizes to her afternoon At
Homes. Bispham, sitting meekh- in the nre
sence of the great ex-nightingale, was sud-
denly accosted by her. “Do you take sugar
in your tea, Mr. Bispham?” “Yes, if von
please—l take two lumps.” Wheeling round
in her chair to get a better look at a voun?
singer who was so extravagant with sac
charine matter, Jenny said in a loud, sharn
tom, And what in the world do you want
with two lumps of sugar!” “I am often re
minded of my anguished feelings at this
public rebuke,” muses the songful David
“when I’m asked, ‘How many lumps of suear
do you take, Mr. Bispham?’” . 8
The afternoon entertainment, on June 12
will have the personal assistance of Bispham
and John Lemmone. The object of this
musical corroboree is to raise funds for the
rent of the Town Hall when the Hospice
Ball occurs.
Charles Rolfe, a promising young bari-
tone, Cornstalk species, left Sydney on Sat-
urday. Snatching his suit-case and banging
his hat firmly on his musical brow, he rushed
up the Ventura’s gangway, bound for
Amurka. Twelve months’ leave of absence
from a Government billet will give the ambi-
tious Rolfe time to tune up his voice under
N’York experts.
Oscar Asche and his wife are up to their
eyebrows in new furniture for their equally
new London home. Lily Brayton’s sister
who housekeeps for the pair, is in charge
of the domicile which the affluent Asche has
recently taken on a long lease. By last
mail the Lily, who looks up to her best form
off the boards (in spite of the recent strain
of dying hard as red-headed Cleopatra), had
some ecstatic news re chairs and tables with
spidery legs and inverted comma backs.
The performing fowls at the Tivoli are
doing everything no self-respecting fowl
would do, if it had brains enough to hide
under the stage. The turn is essentially
French. Behold the sun, a silvery orb like
the lady moon, rises over a French farm-
yard. On swinging perches, or standing on
one leg in the foreground, are the educated
roosters and egg-depositors. The bustling
importance of the smallest gentleman pre-
sent, a bantam, is surrounded by ear-split-
ting crows. He is Coco the clown. The
vast Cochin China bird flaps his wings and
gives a yawning crow at the footlights,
which he mistakes for the sun. This is the
signal for a prolonged crow chorus from the
company. Enter, in pale blue overalls over
light trousers, M. Torcat, who has spent as
much as four years training some of the
actors. Enter also the young and pretty
d’Aliza, who js Mrs. Torcat when she pours
out the morning coffee. Then the fowl play
begins.
Mrs. Torcat is an expert in poultry. From
her grandfather she inherited a fowl farm
of about 30 acres or so, 15 miles from Paris.
Here are kept, apparently in luxury, 3000'
birds of high degree, grandpa having been
a fancier of some note. Then comes along
M. Torcat with a passion for training the
astonished game bird to ride a tricycle and
jump hurdles. “My ’usband ’e work very
’ard —rnany years to teach the chick-ens —
sometime four years to make one fowl do
one trick. They are so good these chick-ens
—some are 22 years of age, and they ’ave
performed with us for 12 years. I love the
chick-ens —and so does my ’usband.” The
Torcats carry about with them 75 fowls, all
of cerulean blue blood. Each performer has
his or her understudy. Like the rest of the
profession, they also have their supersti-
tions. When little Mrs. Torcat got into a
new stage dress that fluffed out in a halo of
red chiffon skirts, she tried it on the com-
pany. They rushed at her red stockings and
pecked her legs to protest against the
gorgeous color. So the red dress had to
hang up in the wardrobe. Even the
Japanese silkies —two feathered dukes aged
22 —refused to speak to Mamma Torcat in
her scarlet flounces.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.
[ln view of the Federal Electoral Act, and the
allusion to Bruce Smith and the compulsory training
law and other political matters, “Vandobian” is fur-
ther described and attested as M. Cox-TayliOß, The
Bulletin Office, Sydney.]


K 'i
The “TRIUMPH”
SATISFIES.
The proof of the “Triumph” is in the riding. Get on
it. Start it while you are in the saddle. You’ll find it
runs smoothy, without jolts or jerks, and is absolutely
the most comfortable machine made.
Simply move the small levers at your finger-tips a little;
it travels at a racing speed that is most enjoyable (The
“ triumph” broke the one-hour record the other day,
you know). Move the levers again, and you travel
slowly, so you can view the scenery you pass. Travel at
any pace you like, between these two, just as simply.
You will also find it extremely reliable and flexible—goes
wherever you want to, and back, every time; forces its
way through mud, slush, sand and ruts in safety; climbs
the steepest hills, and uses very little fuel.
You should come in to our showrooms and see the “Triumph.” Ask our
demonstrator to explain the mechanism. He will do so in simple language,
and give you a better idea of what a Motor-Cycle is, and should be, than you
can get in any other way.
If you cannot call during the daytime, make it Friday night before nine.
If you cannot call at all. send for free, large, Illustrated Catalogue.
Bennett 8 Barkell, Ltd.,
Agents for Triumph, Rudge-Whitworth and New Hudson Motor Cycles.
MANUFACTURERS OF B. g B. MOTOR CYCLES.
124-132 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
VICE-REGAL
fdh
JEWELLERS
BY APPOINTMENT,
BROOCHES.
We have many beautiful styles in inexpensive Brooches.
These are of good quality, set with a wide variety of
gems.
Inspection invited. All goods marked in plain figures.
\ v
\nv'
Pearl Bar Brooch,
£l/4/-
ftCi
O
& &
rvo
Pearl Brooch, £l/10/-
1 '
r^W
Our Mail Order Department offers special facilities to those
who cannot call. Selections sent on approval to any address.
HARDY BROTHERS, LIMITED,
VICE-REGAL JEWELLERS,
13 Hunter St., Sydney; 118 Queen St., Brisbane.
LONDON OFFICE: 17 & 18 WEST SMITHFIELD, E.C. _
Over 1,000,000 Copies Sold of the CELEBRATED
“BOOKSTALL” SERIES OF AUSTRALIAN BOOKS.
PRICE 1/-; POST FREE 1/1.
The “Bookstall” Series of Australian /Literature is the most successful library of Fiction
ever published, being unique and distinct from any other library; purely Australian in
character, and embracing the manifold conditions of life in our Sunny Land. It appeals to all.
Are you sad? Read the Humorous works.
Are you in love? Read the Romantic works.
Are you thinking of settliiig on the land? Read the Selection Stories.
You will be pleased with the whole Series.
THE CAPTAIN OF THE GANG,
PRICE 1/-; POST FREE 1/1.
By DON DELANEY, author of “ Love
and the Aeroplane,” “ Gentleman
Jack,” etc.
“The Captain of the Gang” opens with a burglary near Sydney, committed by a man, who, on being
surprised, strikes an old man down with a jemmy and leaves him for dead. Fearing that he may be
wahted on a murder charge, the burglar takes to the bush and becomes captain of a gang of bushrangers
whose escapades furnish the main material of the book. The skilful unravelling of the burglary mystery,
and the tracking down of the Captain of the gang after many years, afford the author sufficient scope for
the exercise of his undoubted ability. Readers who are looking for something out of the ordinary should
not miss this.
THE “BOOKSTALL” SERIES.
PRICE 1/- EACH; POSTAGE Id.
DETECTIVE STORIES.
Billy Fagan, Mining Engineer By Randolph Bedford.
L’bique By Clarence W. Martin.
The Mystery of the Boxing Contest .. By Bert James
BOOKS ON BUSHRANGING.
Dan Kelly, Outlaw ... . By Ambrose Pratt
Three Years with Tunderbolt . . By Ambrose Pratt
The Outlaws of Weddin Range . . By Ambrose Pratt
John Vane, Bushranger By Chas. White
Short-lived Bushrangers By Chas. White
Gentleman Jack By Don Delaney
The Captain of the Gang .. By Don Delaney
The Devil’s Nightcap By Lancelot Booth
The Convict Pugilist By Geo. Cockerill
The Spell of the Bush By John X. Cameron
SPORTING BOOKS.
A Rogue’s Luck By Arthur Wright
The Mare with the Silver Hoof By Bob Allen
Eros! Eros Wins! By F. Agar
Rung In By Arthur Wright
In Racing Silk . By Gerald R. Baldwin
HUMOROUS BOOKS.
The Missing Link By Edward Dyson
Tommy, the Hawker By Edward Dyson
Benno —And Some of the' Push . . By Edward Dyson
Fact’ry ’Ands By Edward Dyson
Scotty Mac, Shearer By R. S. Tail
How McDougall Topped the Score, and Other Verses
By Thomas E. Spencer
The Spring Cleaning (by Mrs. Bridget McSweeney)
By Thomas E. Spencer
The Surprising Adventures of Bridget McSweeney
By Thomas E. Spencer
Why Doherty Died By Thomas E. Spencer
The Haunted Shanty By Thomas E. Spencer
That Droll Lady By Thomas E. Spencer
The Bulletin Reciter
Bill’s Idees .. By A. G. Stephens (“The Bookfellow”)
SELECTION STORIES.
By STEELE RUDD.
On Our Selection
Our New Selection
Stocking Our Selection
On an Australian Farm
The Dashwoods
The Poor Parson
Duncan McClure
By SUMN
Mum Dawson —Boss
Sandy’s Selection
Back at Our Selection
From Selection to City
For Life
Dad in Politics
The Book of Dan
5R LOCKE.
The Dawson’s Uncle George
AUSTRALIAN HISTORICAL
ROMANCES.
The Barb of an Arrow By Roy Bridges
By His Excellency’s Command .... By Roy Bridges
Mr. Barrington By Roy Bridges
BOOKS OF ROMANCE AND
ADVENTURE.
The Double Abduction By H. K. Bloxham
A Man of Sympathy By Harry Tighe
The Sign of the Serpent By J. H. M. Abbott
The Trader By Cecil Ross-Johnson
Stella Sothern By I. A. Rosenblum
The Recipe for Rubber By Ralph Stock
The Bathers By W. G. Henderson
Love and the Aeroplane By John Sandes
Rocky Section By Sydney Partridge
Tom Pagdin, Pirate By E. J. Brady
The Luck of the Native Born By A. J. Barry
Caloola . By Clement Pratt
Bindawalla By Thomas E. Spencer
Base Brands By H. M. Somer
Chandler of Corralinga By R. J. Cassidy
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.
476 George Street
(OPPOSITE QUEEN
VICTORIA MARKETS),
Sydney.
l t V
I
%
/
o
a
a
s«
LET A
ii
NELSON” Soda Fountain
GET YOUR SHARE OF THE THOUSANDS OF
POUNDS SPENT FOR SOFT DRINKS EVERY YEAR.
Now, just before the Season opens, is the time to get into this “Big-Money,” High-
Profit Business. The Nelson System of Iceless Soda Fountain will be the biggest
money maker in your store. It will turn every inch of idle space into profit. It
is an attraction that will keep a stream of new faces coming through your door, and
a big stream of silver into your till. You won’t know your own store with the new
“Nelson” in it.
You Owners of Worn-Out Fountains, and you who have none at all,
Don’t let your Competitors Get the Trade that Should Be Yours.
Write us, and we will see that you get what'you want, at the best price, and most
generous terms.
A “Nelson” Machine will bring hundreds of new people into your
store, because:
ITS BEAUTY is without a peer. All that the greatest and choicest materials can
do has been done in it.
It will keep them coming, because:
It serves COLD SODA (at a ridiculously LOW COST for ice) ; serves at HIGH
SPEED with ease and with ACCURATE MEASURE of syrups; it is absolutely
sanitary, and looks it (people notice such things nowadays). •
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE!
The Nelson Carbonating Co m.
167 George Street, Sydney.


FOR COLD WEATHER,
Farmer’s ‘'VICTOR” Overcoats
30/
From
30/
When the air is cold and chilling you will appreciate
the warmth and comfort derived from a Farmer’s
“Victor” Overcoat. “Victor” Overcoats are faultless
in fit and finish, smart and stylish in appearance,
and extremely comfortable.
The “Chester” Coat we illustrate is made from
serviceable Shower-proof Tweeds, in Dark Greys,
Browns, Greens and Fancy Mixtures. The sleeves
have gauntlet cuffs, whilst the skirt is full in cut,
allowing perfect freedom of movement. When order-
ing by post, state color, and chest and inside sleeve
measurements.
PRICES
30/-, 35/-. 40/- to 90/■
Carriage Paid Anywhere in Australia.
Farmer’s, Sydney
w
The
Oriental
Hotel,
MELBOURNE.
AUSTRALIA’S MODERN HOTEL.
Now open for the reception of Guests.
The most Hygienic Conditions and Refined
Elegance are distinctive features.
Any size suit'e of cdmpartments. l
Tariff from 15/- per day.
ERNEST McINTOSH* General Manager.
The Lone Hand
for July —
Contains the First Chapters
of a SPLENDID STORY
OF AUSTRALIAN LIFE,
fe y .. ..
LOUIS STONE,
The Author of “ Jonah.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, June 2, 1913.
My Dear Yarrie, . .
There are always two devils in a news-
paper office—the inside one who brings the
proofs, and the outside one who sends along
the mistakes. When The Bulletin of
May 15 was getting ready, the mistake devil
hurried in, heavily disguised as George
Washington, and left a paragraph about
Miss Martha Bruggemann, the young Ade-
laide soprano, who recently returned after
a four years’ absence in England and the
rest of Europe. It was stated here that
London experts were not sure that Miss
Bruggemann’s voice would last; that, in
consequence, she had wisely relinquished her
ideas of a career, and was returning home.
The soft answer to all this was a sheaf of
laudatory English and Australian press
notices that any young artist would be proud
to own. They prove that Miss Bruggemann
has been enjoying something resembling a
triumph. And such things do not happen to
artists who are giving up the game, fearing
that their vocal magnificence is only a flash
in the pan. When vou have been hanging
cypress on a name, and tying a crgpe bow
on a young singer’s professional career, it is
pleasant to be able to remove the symbols
of woe. My only regret is that I have failed
so far to lay hands on that mistake devil,
but, I do, I will sool my largest uncle
on to her, and the ruins of her bonnet will
blow before the cold, south wind.
Horace Gleeson, a deserving young man
in the musical world, has just
been piade conductor of the large choir at
the Church of the Immaculate Conception,
Hawthorn. . Gleeson gave up a similar job
at the Mount Carmel Church, in Albert
Park, where he shook the stick of authority
at the.singers for four years.
Clara Butt invaded the Austral Salon, last
week, under a spreading black plush hat
decorated with an endless red feather. A
velvet military cloak protected her from the
Wintry blast.- The narrow stairs (decor-
ated with blue and gold—the Club colors)
creaked timidly beneath her tread. Husband
Rumford tramped dutifully behind her. Mrs.
Quinnell offered ' an unconditional surrender
along with a posy, after which the visitors
plain ted themselves at the foot of a small
platform, to admire some local talent. Mary
Stirling, under a smart little hat and a long
purple plume, immediately began a con-
quest. Amadio fluted sweetly,, and a little
Conservatorium girl, Gertrude Johnson, took
a high C that soared. straight through the
roof. Both the listening stars made pretty
speeches and beamed with extra candle-power
amongst the fog-dimmed afternoon electrics.
Big, fluffy chrysanthemums were everywhere,
and tea and muffins, frequent enough. Lib-
eral ladies of immense social importance in
their own spheres hurried away at intervals
to attend to electioneering duties arid help
save the country. Mrs. Carty Salmon was
pink with political excitement. Mrs. Agar
Wynne owned up to five engagements for the
Cause within the very next hour. Mrs.
York Syme, a sister of High Commissioner
-Reid, alive to the feather tips with the joy
*of battle, looked forward glowingly to the
last loud hours of the long fight. (Sign
here! Oh, thanks so much !: Amy Dow, The
Bulletin Office, 369 Collins-street, Mel-
bourne.) Mrs. Gotch, of Gordon and Gotch,
was one of those who could not allow noisy
politics to interfere with music. This lady
is an enthusiastic helper of the unboomed
musician, and, I believe, even the inhuman
organ-grinder and his monkey are forgiven
and paid when they halt outside her East
Melbourne house.
A recent Butt matinfie gown madfe
Clara’s audience sit up with an astonished
rustle. From neck to waist it was mostly
flesh-colored tulle. A sort of breastplate of
violets toned it down somewhat. The rest
of it consisted of folds of turquoise silk, and
a tiny lace apron switched round the back.
The evening “effect” of Clara’s outfit seemed
incongruous with the frock coat of Ken-
nerley. Murdoch wasn’t even frock-coated.
He wore the tailed Beaufort which tailors
prescribe for mornings.
A feature of some of the big afternoon tea
narties in the Town Hall, or thereabouts, is
the way the more-than-middle-aged mammas
“do the Block” for half an hour or so after-
wards. They try to give the impression
that they are on the way to tea at one of
the cafris ; but, as the fluid is always poured
out liberally at the functions they emerge
from, it would seem that it is nothing less
than a dress parade. Mamma, clad in her
very best, rubs shoulders with the parading
flappers, and smiles faintly in an unseeing
way when nieces and other young feminine
connections trip past with their latest
tamed clerks in attendance. The same
young women, by the way. have got far be-
yond control by their elders. If they are
rich beyond the dreams of the suburbs, they
have their own motors, which they drive
themselves, and the grinning swain of the
moment often gets a lift after tea-time.
Web Gilbert is the only sculptor in Aus-
tralia who can cast his own bronzes —and
is practically the only man who does any
work of the sort here. Bertram Mackennal
and such-send their work abroad for casting.
There has been h sudden demand for W. G.
bronzes lately that has kept the local man
busy. On .election, night, some wakeful
politically galvanized people fell into Gil-
bert’s workshop at an eerie hour .of the
night and surprised him at woyk.' The gale
was howling' crildly outside, but the forge
was full of fierce flames and black shadows.
Heavy crane chains and long, devilish-look-
ing pincers and nippers lay scattered about
and made the place look like a torture
chamber. Gilbert, in a navvy’s or stoker’s
costume, danced about over a hole full of
blue flame, and a stuffed owl, perched for
no reason at all among some gigantic jars,
watched him unwinkingly while the candles
guttered. Gilbert glowered at the intruders
and said grimly “Stand clear!” Then he
hauled a red-hot crucible or something out
of the furnace, and out spattered molten
metal, which gave off rainbows of flame.
Gilbert buys his crucibles carefully-
says that only about three men in the world
are known to make reliable crucibles. The
process is a secret. “Dixson, of America,
can make one, and a fairly decent one comes
from Paris,” says Gilbert as he works,
“They are baked and baked, and then baked
again. The secret is in the proportion of
plumbago used, with a sort of sand and
clay.” Into the furnace and crucible go all
sorts of odd brass and copper, ancient elec-
trical fittings, bedstead knobs,. the tag ends
of candlesticks. They all melt down and
form a material outer covering for a bit of
fine modelling. The floor of the workshop
is sand —quite black, because it has all had
metal mixed through it, and has been used
time and again for the baked case that holds
the wax that melts to the molten bronze.
(Sounds like “The House that Jack Built,”
doesn’t it?) The metal “sets” in about five
minutes. (“Goodness!” whispered a star-
ing young housekeeper. “Why, a blanc-
mange takes hours!”) It takes some smart
handling to get it'from crucible to mould,
before it even clouds. The slightest fumb-
ling or hesitancy can smash up the work of
weeks. The drying-room is like a witch’s
oven in “Hansel and Gretel” —a dark hole
with a fearful iron door.
The. Hunt Club Races, at Moonee Valley,
on Saturday marked the opening of the
season, arid though a gale blew all the pre-
vious night and during, the day there, was
never a hint of. postponement. Many of the
horses are ridden, as well as owned and
trained, by the youth of the squattocracy,
and these “boys” would face any weather
for a good run. On Saturday, judges and
stewards made a damp muddle of humanity
roofed with umbrellas. The races were
viewed through a mist of rain, and the
riders when they came in were covered so
thickly with mud that it was hard to make
out the colors of their jackets; also, they
grinned cheerfully through masks of mud.
The womenfolk of the Club showed they
possessed sporting enthusiasm by motoring
out muffled to the ears in raincoats. They
strode between the stand and the tea shelter
with hands rammed in the big pockets of
their motor coats, cheerful in the knowledge
that their boot soles were of a sensible
thickness. The Curries, the Powells and
the Powers were in the macintoshed
throng. The McCrackens were a whole
corner in furs. One girl paraded in a mole-
skin overcoat and a jockey cap with a long
fox brush (presumably made of silk) pro-
truding from her back hair. Bad weather
cannot spoil the beauty of the pretty little
Moonee Valley course. Roses climb over
the fences in arches as in a careful suburban
garden, and bright geraniums look like
posies in stone jars along the lush green
grass. The Club keeps adding groves of
young gupis and wattles and peppers; and
high gravfelled terrace walks make a good
pathway for the thirsty to the snug shel-
tered tea house.
The Findon Harriers’ initial meet for the
season accounted for a rush of sports to
catch a train from Spencer-street at 9.30
a.m. one morning recently. At Trawalla,
Admiral Bridges and his wife welcomed the
pink company, and gave them a solid feed
on the verandah, screened in with autumn
leaves. The G.-G., in his pest-chasing
clothes, and Hubert Miller, were first in the
saddle, and a confused procession of horses
and motors went straggling after them. The
Barttelot lady, snugly wrapped in furs,
viewed the chase from a motor, while her
Walter, aboard a good horse, fled like Old
Harry after the brown animal he did not
really want. (And, by the way, he did not
gee it. At the end of a long run, the dogs
were found sniffing disconsolately round
some old mine workings, possibly the resi-
dence of a deceased wild cat.) The three
Bridges girls, Frank Madden’s daughter,
and Miss Wallace, were the habited Dianas
of the purposeless 12-mile pursuit. The
Kirkpatrick pair, the Gwenn Griffith couple,
a swarm of Millers, and Reggie Power (the
last-named quite alone) were amongst the
enthusiasts. The baffled hunters were dined
aboard the train during the return trip. Under
the benign—or malign—influence of wine,
the men dragged half-forgotten hunting dit-
ties from the dusty pigeon-holes of memory,
and a howl of impromptu song was heard
by the watchful train crew, above the iron
roar of the wheels.
The Mayoral Otterys, of Fitzroy, who
glowed at- the Empire military dance, are
preparing wedding cake and laying in con-
fetti for the August marriage of their eld-
est daughter with Michael Jamieson, of Yea.
Michael, it is understood, would not take a
Nay.
Mrs. Cameron, a sister of Dr. Murray
Morton’s wife, lately introduced a Yankee
two-step to a number of advanced revellers.
A few miles of colored lights were hung out
on the St. Kilda-road to direct the invited,
all of whom wer.e in unusual attire. When
the revel was fairly, started, the hostess
slipped out of the back way and disguised
herself only too well as a girl from the
country. The result was that no one asked
her to dance, and she sat in a corner, till
Jack Clendenning, attired as a violent suf-
fragette, with muff and bomb complete,
came along and asked her to step with him.
The host borrowed his chauffeur’s profes-
sional costume. It was a wildly grotesque
evening, but everybody gave a slight start
when a Cupid fluttered in towing a pair of
fluffy wings and wearing satin. On closer
inspiction it proved-to be Myra Langridge.
The latest Paris yelp was illustrated by
Leslie Stuart’s wife ; her gown was sort
of whittled away at both ends, and from
her topknot shot a high, jet-like feather.
Mrs. Howard, a lovely Lady Mary Carlyle, -
sparkled furiously. Lulu Morton easily
carried away an expensiye memento for her
imitation of Little Miss Muffitt. Everybody
present had evidently been studying up
American freak dances, and the Gaby Glode
very furiously. A reserve force of 37 extra
men was perhaps the most unique feature of
the outbreak. 1
Two approaching dances are whirling in
this direction down the vestibule of Time.
They are (1) the Dentists’ frivol (booked
for J une 11), and (,2) the Bachelors’ skip
(June 13). Both functions will shake up
St. fvilda Town Hall. The Bachelors’ pros-
pective guests are driving their various
households crazy, because the order of the
evening is fancy dress. The fancy dress
problem is one of the things that helps to
'shorten life.
Dames Staughton and Hodges are work-
ing out a scheme to lift the cloud of debt
under which the Blind Asylum is groping..
This charity has somehow dropped out of
fashion since the time when the Brassey
lady collected a drove of the Best People
and took round the Paris hat. A race meet-
ing is the present proposition, and a course
has been begged from some sympathetic com-
mittee for the animals to run round.
Sir Coutts Lindsay’s double domestic
affairs, disclosed at his death the other day,
have caused much comment in London and
other places. It now appears that he
secretly married a second wife, a week
after the first wife’s decease. The first
Lady Lindsay died as recently as last Aug-
ust. Though she had never been in Aus-
tralia, she had a few personal friends in
Victoria, and was otherwise very well
known through her books. In later years
she confined her attention to semi-religious
writings—which somehow reminds one of a
bygone picture of Souter’s in The
Bulletin. A gay and festive young
charmer is sharing a bottle of wine with a
bald-headed old sinner, and remarks. “I sup-
pose that, if the truth were known, your
wife is a great deal too good for you!”
“She is! She is!” replies the reprobate.
“She’s a Christian Endeavorer!” The
dame who.was separated for so many years
from her husband was a wealthy woman in
her own right; her mother was the
daughter of a Rothschild. She disapproved
of hubby’s goings-on so strongly that she
took her daughters off and lived apart from
him; but her religious convictions (or her
jealousy) kept her from granting the old
man a divorce. He, like most disrespectable
men of culture, was interested in Art. and
helped to bring the new Grosvenor Gallery,
in Bond-street, into being.
Mrs. Geoffrey Syme has bought Web
Gilbert’s big bronze—the one that had such
a conspicuous place in the recent Artists’
Exhibition. It is a lovely female nude—a
nymph walking with head pensively bowed.
The same purchaser also secured four of
Mather’s pictures. One of them is a sketch
of a mountain that has the honor of over-
shadowing one of Geoffrey Syme’s country
places.
The grass-widowed G.-G. is giving a
King’s Birthday party, at Government
House, on Saturday evening. The invita-
tions, which are for 9.30, seem to indicate
two-stepping for the crowd, after a formal
and exclusive dinner rite has been eaten
through by a select few.
Olive Siegenberg, who helps mamma to
run the Chicago and Winter Garden, has
said “Yes” to William Carroll, the son of a
Victorian squattress. William has just fin-
ished a brilliant wrestle with electric engin-
eering at Edinburgh University, and is
settling in Melbourne.
Bachelor Dicky Cross’s sisters are driving
him towards the altar by acts of desertion.
One married a medico of Tasmania and went
to live at Mount _ Lyell. Then little sister
Pearl, while paying a visit, met mining
manager James, and that enthusing
man came forthwith to Muffin y ° Une
asked brother Dicky for his hW and
anything of the kind £ 1 a“om B 'h ”
Dicky, seeing that he was cornered ti?® 1
up his hands and told the annlicani
shoot. The wedding will ! “ not , to
exodus to Mount Lyell, whe- e Erie T° ther
is second in command. ~am es
Linoleum millionaire Dyer and ,
wife have gone north' to Bana
after clearing out with an em )U raS and ’
tity of the Associated ArPsts’ "V"" 11 '
Dyer was the most extensive nurcha* Ure - S '
the room. One of his cheque-book ln
was a bronze head by Web Gifbert T
practically took two samples of every 3
m the exhibition—a couple from each Luc 8
patch of wall. Mrs. Edwards from p! ISts
land, secured the Canberra picture
last day, the various buyers
motors and fairly looted the plac? th
Heiress Marie Hall is hurrying round th.
iSrt
Co C l k o y mbt y wh
see the horse races. After th£? JK to
on to see the McEacharn family in £°?
land. I hat duty having been attended ? '
she really starts off to inspect h e l?'
round earth. P tne wh °le
The hatpin by-law is just about due co-
operation in Melbourne. The Citv p mnn 0 M
passed it . more than a month ago and X
40 days and 40 nights it wasTcEj "£ I
force. Victims of this man-made r.gulati™
are liable to fines on a sliding scale wu
soever refuseth to cash up, and’ is n!i
rescued from ga’ol by a brutal husband
other financial agency, will be at liberty to
go on hunger strike and become a martyr
I lenty of bold advertisement will be avail'
able to the unprotected female with «„
unguarded hatpin.
A. Melbourne furrier is unconsciously
stressing the. point that it is cruel o
slaughter wild things in order that men may
be wilder and women warm. In his window
stands a beautiful waxen damsel dressed in
the most barbarously up-to-date skins In
one hand she holds up for exhibition the
natural upholstery of a poof little squirrel
Apparently, it is a guarantee that there is
no deception- about the the cruelty.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
A vast .army (of parents mostly) lined up at
Montefiore on Saturday to watch the parade of the
cadets. The Governor and Lady Bosanquet, morally
upheld by Aides Walker and Fletcher, looked on
from the Queen Victoria stdtue. Here, aiso, were the
Bonythons and various Parliamentary officials and
their wives. The prevailing feeling of the gathering
appeared to be that the thing was most beneficial to
the cadets, but that they were glad the Government
hadn t made them take on anything of the sort
themselves.
Everybody is “Milestones” mad iust now. The
ever-green, though slightly corpulent, Julius is once
more the idol of the gilds, young and old, and the
other members of the co. are getting that wav with
furious speed. Miss Temple and Miss Noble (who is
at the Queen Adelaide Club) had rafts of blue-blooded
friends here already. Miss Irene Brown, being a
stranger, hadn’t. However, that has all been fixed
up. The Downer lady had a tea for her on Tuesday,
which establishes her, once and for all, as thoroughly
“nice.”
Miss Lucy Turnbull is back from England.
Miss Ruby Davy’s recital at the Pianola Hall on
Saturday went off well. Her piano-playing and. elo-
cution were excellent. Miss Beatrice Wallmann
assailed the second piano.
Mrs. Woodham and her son and daughter have
left the Newmarket Hotel, and hit the trail that
leads to Renmark.
Mrs. C. W. Hayward is giving a dance in the North
Adelaide Institute on Friday, June 27.
The Literary Theatre’s performance of “The
Devil’s Disciple” drew a biggish audience to the
Unley City Hall on Tuesday. The Governor and
Lady Bosanquet, Mr. and Mrs. Grundy, the Walter
Bagots, Mrs. Howard Davennort, Mrs. Arthur Rymill,
Mrs. H. P. Gill, the Misses Waterhouse, and Miss
Fearon were amongst those who applauded the wit
and bellow-drama of G. B. Shaw.
Miss Ethel Cooper and Miss Kyffin Thomas have
returned to Germany after a trip to Paris, where
they spent their time with Miss Davison and Miss
Gladys Revnell.
The Holtzes, of the Botanical Gardens, have lost
their eldest son. He was born in Russia, but was
educated at Darwin. In ’B9 he took charge of the
Northern Territory Botanical Gardens. There he did
good work, experimenting with cocoanut, and rice-
growing, and so on. His eldest daughter is with
the old people in Adelaide. ,
The exhibition of work done by students at the
School of Design was held last week. Miss Nancy
Giles weighed in with some effective wood-carving,
and Miss Prosser showed some artistic and original
stencilling.
Dr. Stokes is leaving Gawler for the Semaphore.
Which is playing it low down on Gawler, but is goo
for the Semaphore.
The Free Motor Car Bide of election-day is
a tremendous event in quietest Suburbia.
When the motorists whirred up to the nev,
terrace they observed on each verandah
waiting woman, who was pinned into her
very best clothes, and wore a look of ton
expectancy. The booth was only a bloc
away, but that made no difference at a .
They had to be driven there, lolling back o
the cushions, and looking as rich and ar
gant as possible. (What, again. u.
bother! Where’s the pen?: Amy Dow, i
Bulletin Office, 369 Collins-street, Me-
bourne. There you are! Does that satis.
you V)
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.


1
/
/ ft.
%
1
Si'S
ii
1 l&S.
*k&
;t
JMRS
' :
tv l , 'te»£»
*i mi
E i
'! •- -
r?
\
■■■X-? X
J
\ %
f - ■
*®g
Sfil
\,
83*8
ife
\/r
\
rfi
WME-
‘4? r 'X
a
1
\
\-
V
/ \
X
A
BETS
/?W\
mL
JHH
<*•
'
■ •
«4 jMc
I ■
/
m
Xjk \Wjjß. | tyj|
✓
U--
i 1
!Ft :
aK
UjF«
arcr bfeti
W-- Y -'
I
* i,- jMp>,g|g
.
.
.-' >,X' ,
*
g?Af
?*:
VICTORIA
J?
:• •>
RACING
CLUB
aanaaaai
■ISIS
a - ;; t I t 4
HHS
Arc Yo(i a Lotfcr of Trottii)??
THEN Victoria Park next Tuesday will provide an afternoon of real enjoyment for yon.
The trotting track is the finest in Australasia, and this course is noted for keen,
exciting racing.
Victoria Park Racecourse is beautifully laid out, whilst the buildings and other
appointments are equal to the best courses of the European Continent.
Lovers of clean, well contested racing can count on spending a most enjoyable
afternoon on
TUESDAY NEXT, JUNE 10, at VICTORIA PARK.
Programmes and full particulars from
THE SECRETARY, VICTORIA PARK RACING CLUB,
21 IMPERIAL ARCADE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY.


SPECIALISTS IN MEN’S SHIRTS.
INDELIBLE FRENCH CAMBRIC SHIRTS,
Starched or Golf Cuffs, well cut and finished,
4s. 6d. each, post free.
PEPPERS LIMITED,
310 George Street
(Near
Hunter Street),
SYDNEY.
Hefty” : In case Ginger's remarks re sewing 1000
ba S® day w l ek ' s Bulletin-) should be met
with the scornful laugh, I now disclose mvself as the
<; bl ? k< L co ha i f* T throU & h tbat task <^ with ' the aid of
bnuths sacks). I could always manage to do 1000
an l h /£ e tl J m tJ or a “smoko,” that is if Smith’s
sacks (Brand XX) were used. Smith's equal to new
sacks were boaters ; they used -to fill themselves while
'® , grousing from the boss because they
were not full enough—they always held more, in
tTrv , kn i >W f Sml T*j b o 4 his sacks are bosker -
Street Sydney ) * ’ ’ SaCk Specialkts ’ Sussex
“Appearance” means more than simplv “dress”
P considered. If a man looks
bqyisb—if h , , has what Shakspeare called “a lean
and hungry look”—not all the tailors in Sydney will
make him appear a strong, purposeful man. ' It is
;the face that must be improved. But how? Bv grow-
jng a handsome, full moustache by the application of
Capillarine. This is a moustache-producer which
ba L b “ n . on . tbe market for 30 years. Permanency of
powth is claimed for the results of the Capillarine
treatment. Capillarine is sold by Craig and Aitken,
G J? r % e Street, Sydney, at the reasonable price of
10s. 6d. a jar, post free.*
VALUABLE ADVICE FOR OBTAINING
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
BY COURTESY OF A LADY READER.
While recently glancing through a ladies'
paper one of our readers noticed a simple
formula said to quickly banish all skin
irritations and greatly beautify the com-
plexion. Having given considerable study
to chemistry, she was immediately inter-
ested by the peculiar combination of ingre-
dients. Her skin was rough and sore from
exposure to the sun and wind, so she deter-
mined to have the lotion made up at onch.
She applied night and morning with a soft
cloth, and in less than a week all disagree-
able traces of sunburn, rash and blemishes,
had entirely vanished, her complexion was
soft and smooth ; in fact, her appearance was
so greatly improved that her own mother
was astonished, and asked the cause of the
sudden transformation. This led to
another trial of the same lotion, and, de-
spite the mother’s age, her skin became clear
and velvety. But what was even more
amazing, the lines and wrinkles which had
formed round her eyes and on her forehead
began to smooth out and gradually disap-
pear. Both mother and daughter were
overjoyed at this unlooked-for result, and
wondered if there was not some way of sir-
ing the benefit of their experience to other
women. They finally decided to write to
one or two of the principal papers about it.
Upon receiving their communication, we
gladly consented to publish for rhose inter-
ested the valuable formula which they had
found. It calls for 2oz. of rosewater, one
dram tincture of benzoin, and 2oz. Flowers
of Oxzoin. the mixture to be well shaken
before using. We are informed that it is
quite inexpensive, and can be made ud by
any good chemist, or easily prepared at
home. A prominent member of the Faculty
of Medicine of Paris, who specialises in the
care .of the skin, examined this formula for
us. and states that the lotion made there-
from is perfectly harmless, and. besides be-
ing excellent for the comnlexion. is also un-
excelled for quickly eradicating blotches
pimples, blackheads, etc., which are so dis-
figuring to the skin.*
POLITICAL
POINTS
A controversy between Tudor and
I eacoek as to whether the Labor or Liberal
party had been the kinder friend of old-age
pensioners was practically settled last week
inm , d ?- r . disinterred the fact that “In
4i j le ' J ctorian Government, of which
Alexander Peacock was a member, intro-
duced a Bill providing for a reduction of the
pension maximum from 10s. to Ts. per
week: the maximum being ultimately fixed
at Bs.”
[Edmund Fisher, The Bulletin Office, 369 Col-
lms-street, Melbourne. ]
There is at least one bank in Sydney—
there may be more, but the writer knows
of one—which makes a special boast that
it won t supply its customers with the
1 ederal ten-shilling notes. In fact it
elevates its reconstructed nose in the air
over the fact that whenever these notes
come its way it sends them to the Com-
monwealth institution to be turned into
Priuie Minister Fisher might try to
*4 D< j op k° w ™ an y banks follow this policy.
And then he might rush through an amended
.Note Act.
[James Edmond, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
1 ictoria s att-Weary Government—and
what a weary Government it is—has decided
that it must either raise the pay or lower
the cop. A tall bobby at low wages is un-
obtainable, and a really live bobby at a dead
remuneration can’t be got. Also," an abund-
ant Dunn at scarce remuneration is hard to
arrive at. So it has been decided (1) to
keep the pay at the old figure; (21 to keep
the scarcity of the cop on the old basis; (3)
to ask for no more intelligence than hereto-
fore ; but (4) to accept a sft. Sin. constable
instead of drawing the line at sft. 9in. as of
old. Which may be described as taking the
line of least resistance, which is generally
also the line of most incapacity.
Quidam views an old curse on a new
quarter:—
Possibly, in time, the politicians of N.S.W. and
the electors who are behind them will realise that
their congestion policy makes it easy for organised
Labor to hang up the whole country. When there
is only one port, the holding up of that port closes
the gate of the whole
State, and as the workers
employed in any industry
at that port are necessarily
influenced by the same
local conditions, their
habits of thought and out-
look on life, however re-
stricted, are inevitably the
same. But bodies of men,
surrounded by different
conditions, geographical
and otherwise, are apt to
view the same question
from different standpoints,
and are much less likely
to throw down tools for
trivial reasons. Where one
body wants to strike, an-
other in a different en-
vironment, and under dif-
ferent leaders, may prefer
to remain at work, and
the difficulty of reconciling
the two sets of ideas leads
to compromise and calm
consideration, instead of
precipitate war. A uni-
versal strike in one city is
a simpler matter to engi-
neer than one in many
cities, and where the
workers of the one city
know that the industries
of the whole State are at
their mercy, the incentive
to get what they want by
holding business up is
great. There are manv
more or less indirect evils
attached to the congestion
policy, and many a pomp-
ous city person, who in-
veighs bitterly about agi-
tators and unions, and yet
opposes any proposal to
unlock any other port but
. , , , Sydney, stands an excel-
lent chance of encountering them all if he keens
going long enough.
Atlee Hunt, secretary to the External
Affairs Department, answered the assembled
softgoods people in Melbourne the other day
according to their folly. He had been talk-
ing to them about the tremendous possibili-
ties of the Northern Territory, and the
urgency of railway and other development,
lhen came the inevitable question: “But
what will it cost us to develop it?” Where-
upon Hunt threw in his scornful reply:
“What will it cost you not to develop it?”
[F. C. Joxes, Elgar-road, Bur wood, Victoria.]
The harassed X.S.W. Government almost
sat down dead in the midst of a sea of
troubles when Railway Commissioner
Johnson lately served it with a peremptory
demand for 80 more engines. X.S.W. re-
quires a fearful number of engines in pro-
portion to the work done on its railways.
Thus the policy of carrying the export
goods of Western Riverina to Sydney in-
stead of Melbourne about doubles the' dis-
tance and the number of locomotives re-
quired. And the habit of carrying the ex-
ports of Monaro to Sydney necessitates
about five times as many locomotives as if
Monaro had its own handy outlet at Two-
fold Bay. But the congestion policy is
sacred, so the miserable Treasurer hove a
sigh that blew his documents across the
room, and went out to borrow the engine
money at high interest.
LIBS AND LABS ON POLLING DAY.
And the encumbrance which showed which way
the vote went.
[Mrs. Syd. Sullivan, Willoughby-road, Wil-
loughby.]
A cryptic remark was that of X.S.W.
Minister Griffith, who is going to make “a
somewhat novel proposal” when the State
Legislature meets. It is so big a proposal
that by its agency money is to be raised to
finish in three years railways that, under
present arrangements, would take 10 years
to build. Now what is this hidden dazzler?
The State Government can’t debase the
coinage or issue bank notes. It may try a
forced local loan, or a huge lottery device,
or a voluntary local loan with a lottery
attached as a special inducement, or sus-
pension of the interest on the foreign debt,
or it may propose to pay for railway build-
ing with land grants or with State bonds
issued to the contractors at a big discount.
(There would have to be a big discount, for
when the contractors put their heap of
paper on the market that institution
would stagger under the shock, and they
must needs sell cheap.) Or possibly the
Government has a profitable decentralisa-
tion scheme in view. Possibly, again, it is
only talking through its hat. The position
is profoundly interesting.
Premier Matt (Vic.) has been telling
London that “the people overseas are glad
think they were born in the same cradle.”
M att, as a family man, ought to know that
babies are rarely, if ever, born in cradles.
An almost incredible tale of the parsimony
and neglect of the Weary State’s Education
Department came from Loddon Vale lately.
There being no boarding accommodation
available, the young woman in charge of the
State school lived, with her sister, in a tent
in the school ground. During their tem-
porary absence some ill-regulated humorists
capsized the mansion and spread the effects
all over the premises. After that the girl
grew tired, and reported the facts about the
school itself —the roof lets the rain in, the
chimney smokes so that no fire can be used,
the locks are off the doors, the place is in-
fested with vermin, there is a populous rab-
bit-warren under the building, and the yard
is a quagmire. The school committee would
do nothing, so the girl asked the Depart-
ment to close the establishment and send
her somewhere else, which it did. Loddon
Vale will therefore return to its primal state
of savagery or thereabouts. It is anti-Sosh.
iand doesn’t approve of State education and
>such new-fangled ideas.
When it was mentioned that Vic.’s William
M att and Ma State’s William Holman were
talking about amalgamating their British
emigration work, people in the know were
certain that Percy Hunter (X.S.W.) wasn’t
far away, and it is Percy who now emerges
as director of the combined show. MacLeod,
who left the Age staff to control Vic.’s share
of the scramble for settlers and unsettlers,
is no doubt left writhing somewhere in the
far perspective, a martyr to his Govern-
ment’s determination never to have the same
immigration policy two months running.
As only one-half of the Senate goes before
the electors every three years, the other
half lies back on election day and has a rest.
So 18 senators have their jobs fixed and
secure till 1916. and every one of them is a
Laborite. If the Cook crowd captured all
the 18 senatorial seats that are up at auc-
tion just now, it would only make a tie or
a dead heat. But when the first batch of
returns came in things looked gloomv.
Among the six “first threes” (18 in all) 14
were Laborites. In N.S.W. the whole of the
first three stood for Labor in. the earlv re-
ports. In Victoria the first and second
men were Laborites; in Queensland, all
three; in S.A., all three; and in Westralia
all three. Tasmania was the only
State where three Cookites started off with
the lead. Of course, unless Labor holds its
own in the House of Beps, an overwhelming
victory in the Senate matters little; a
majority of 10 can carry things quite as
well as a majority of 30. And the first
Senate returns represent a mere fragment
of the total vote. Yet the signs were so
depressing that many a Tory felt on Sun-
um?rimng that he had seen the script on
the battlements, so to speak, and carved the
oiinday dinner meat in low spirits.
[James Edmond, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
. ‘.‘Hone”: M.L. Onnn
'Urol
k d, e B ?fii;» t-j
things at home to gj
worse before he unload
his carpet bag at Web
hngton. Rates of i nte .
est hare aßeady ju er
high and threaten to
jump higher. Advances
are being called i n
Public bodies which used
to get cheap money f roi £
5 ard are now forced to
the open market, which
is coarse and hostile and
expensive. There i s ,
severe shortage of cash
Massey s farmer crowd
is wondering when in-
terest rates will be low
once , more, and the ser-
“tviion \r pent s answer alwavs is'
M hen Massey goes out and Ward comes in
again.” And not one in a dozen ft f ,i n
realises that M.L. is mereh reaniL
crop of trouble that the borrowing boomstw
sowed before he went away.
. T -?- • Ru mored that before long one or
two of the stronger Australasian shiSnina
combinations will have a cut at the bizF K
trade, wherefore those eight- and ten-thousand
tonners are being built. This attack on the
existing conference” which settles fares and
freights will have to be in the form of In
alliance, as frequency of sailings is a nrime
necessity to meet the wishes of
signors When the Commonwealth Govern-
ment launches out on its big ocean-trade
policy it, too, will have to bear in mind the
necessity of having a dozen ships from the
very start.
THE CHALLENGE.
Liberals stand for a Federal as opposed to a
L nitary Australia, and therefore square against
the Referenda, which for the second time are
being submitted to the vote of the Australian people.
We are told these far-reaching amendments are
needed to deal with the predatory trusts of com-
merce. They seem, however, to be needed much
more by the still more predatory political trusts,
represented by the Caucus.
Our attitude is simple, clear and firm. We hold
it imperative that these huge organisations of indus-
try should be subject to public control and regula-
tion.
—From Jocook's Policy Speech.
THE ASSAILANT: “ Ha! Ha! Now he knows
how I would deal with him."
With the retirement of J. T. Walker
(N.S.W.) and the disappearance of the
very able Josiah Symon. dropped between
the two party stools in S. Aus., the Senate
loses the last of its members who sat in
the Federal Convention and helped to frame
the Constitution.
[S. H. Prior, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
JOSEPH’S REWARD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The steel-blue sky was spangled o’er with stars,
The summer ev’ning fainted in the heat,
The noiseless wavelets kissed the foam-flecked bars,
The world’s great heart, it seemed, had ceased to
beat.
So fresh and fair, there at my side 6he sat
And gazed out at the blue, immortal sea;
Her pale gold hair exhaled its scent, her hat,
A thing of muslin, rested on her knee.
I ached for her, so sweet she was, so near,
The night itself seemed made but to entice,
A sportive devil whispered in my ear
Till virtue seemed the meanest form of vice.
Drunk with the night I caught her in my arms
And pressed my lips against her burning cheeks;
“Oh, don’t,” she cried; “please don’t”—a thousand
qualms
Rushed in on me, my strong embrace grew weak.
Reason returned and Virtue won the fight.
Her lips curled as I helped her to her feet ;
I felt I had done wrong in doing right—
To-day she scarcely knows me when we meet!
[This alleged poem, by B. J. H. Owex. 129 Grey-
street, East Melbourne, is put into the political col-
umn, and signed in accordance with the Act on the
off-chance that the Joseph alluded to may be Joseph
Cook, and the bride the Parramatta electorate. These
are times when it is necessary to be careful and walk
a chalk line.]
FOR DOMESTIC PEACE.—BUT WHAT
ABOUT THE BACK FENCE?
Mr. Hughes 's pro-Australian attitude when dealing
with trusts, contrasts strangely with his denial of
any fiscal obligations towards the maintaining of the
national policy.
CASUAL OUTSIDERS: “ Good luck t' yer, Billy!
Finish 'im off. It’ll leave more room for
us! ”
[T. COLLES, THE BULLETIN Office, Sydney.]
One question could always be relied upon
to make the Liberal Union candidates in
S. Aus. horribly uncomfortable. In that
State one of Labors chief sins was alleged
to be its attachment to preference to union-
ists, which was described as an inhuman
invention of either Billy Hughes or the
Devil—they weren’t sure which, or whether
there was any difference. But it also hap-
pened that, because Josh Symon wouldn’t
consent to be strapped down by the Liberal
Lmon, that body ran three other candidates
for the Senate; and as Josh insisted on
running all the same, the Liberals called on
the country to support the union three and
starve Symon out of his old Parliamentarv
job. Naturally, after that, the Libera'l
Lmon s candidates only had to hear Svmon
and preference to unionists mentioned in
one breath to know that an awkward ques-
tion was coming.
[G. W. AYLIFFE, Mundalla, S.A.]


The Foremost
British
Piano
RICH TONE QUALITY SOUND CONSTRUCTION
DURABILITY.
■r
f[[l
111
Ffff
am
Our Catalogue which describes the SAMES
PIANO is post free, if unable to visit our
Show Rooms.
Full value allowed on old instruments
taken in part payment.
SAMES PIANO.
THE SAMES PIANO has a quality and
individuality all its own. It is an attractive,
British-made instrument, combining the very
best materials and first class workmanship.
THE SAMES PIANO is an ideal piano for
the home, its full, rich tone and superior musical
features giving the utmost pleasure to all who
hear and play it.
THE SAMES PIANO is sound and
solid in construction, and we guarantee it
for its wear-resisting qualities—to stand any
test in the trying Australian climate.
Sold by us at bedrock prices, and for cash,
or on easy terms.
fd
SOLE AGENTS
FOR
SA/VIES P/ANOS,
338 George St.,
SYDNEY.
And at
NEWCASTLE, LISMORE,
BRISBANE, TOOWOOMBA.
Stewart Dawson s Co.
(AUST.) LIMITED.
Strand Corner, 412 George St., Sydney.
Doubly attractive is Stewart Dawson's beautifully-designed
Silvenvare when we consider those FIRST COST PRICES
that have made this firm famous throughout the Commonwealth.
Write for Illustrated Art Catalogue—sent post free on request.
F 6139.
Silver- plated
BUTTER
KNIFE,
2/6
E 7122. —A 1 qu
prising Powder
G 4069.
Silver - plated
JAM SPOON,
G .4269.— Silver-plated ASPARAGUS DISH, with
Removable Rack,
40/-
We pay postage on all goods to any address.
AUSTRALIA: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND: Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin.
LONDON : 73 to 81 Regent Street, W.; and 19 to 21 Hatton Garden, E.C.
\7;y*a.
hfd
PRISM
BINOCULARS.
REMAIN UNRIVALLED for
Mechanical and Optical Perfection.
BEFORE BUYING A FIELD GLASS
ASK TO SEE
ZEISS TURACT
(8 MAGNIFICATIONS).
THE VERY LATEST MODEL.
It is Lighter than the Telact and Possesses the
same Optical Properties.
PRICE £sj \ 5|
IN SOLID
LEATHER CASE.
Obtainable from All Leading Opticians.
REPUTABLE OPTICIANS WILL NOT TRY TO SUBSTITUTE
ANOTHER GLASS WHEN ASKED FOR ZEISS.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Absolutely Pure.
No Preservatives.
WAVs,
E. RESCH’S LIAIITED , Brewer by Appoint-
ment to his Excellency the Governor-General.
Brewery and Offices t Dowling Street, Redfern, Sydney
WMt Australian Agents RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
ECZEMA ON THE FACE
DRIVEN AWAY BY DR. MORSE’S IN-
DIAN ROOT PILLS, SAYS NOWRA
LADY.
I have found Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills an excellent remedy for the blood,”
writes Mrs. Jane Kelly, of Bridge-road.
Nowra, N.S.W. “Some years ago I suffered
considerably with eczema on the face, and
found nothing to drive this malignant com-
plaint away but Indian Root Pills; they
cleanse the blood beyond all doubt, and keep
the liver up to the mark, and move the
bowels in a mild manner. They are our
family medicine, and I recommend them to
my friends and acquaintances as an invalu-
able remedy. _ You can use this testimony.”
This torturing and disfiguring disease has
its cause in an impure condition of the
blood which often arises from a diseased
condition of the stomach and allied organs
of digestion and nutrition. When digestion
is imperfect the nutrition of the body is
inadequate to its needs. The blood becomes
thin, poisons accumulate in it, and these
poisons often manifest themselves in some
eruptive disease. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills correct diseases of the stomach and
other organs of digestion and nutrition.
They eliminate poisonous substances from
the blood, purifying it and increasing its
quality and richness. They get at the cause
and foundation, and they remedy perfectly
diseases of the blood and other diseases
which originate in a diseased stomach.”*
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, 28th May, 1913.
Tenders for Round Iron Bars for
Turbine Nuts.
TTIENDERS will be received, subject to
JL the conditions of tendering, until twelve
noon on MONDAY, 16th' JUNE, 1913, for
the supply of Round Iron Bars for Turbine
Nuts.
The quantity required is 500 feet of fl-
inch diameter round iron bars. The material
is to be delivered f.o.b. at the Commonwealth
Dockyard, Cockatoo Island, Sydney.
Tender form and specification can be ob-
tained from the Director of Navy Contracts,
Navy Office, Melbourne, or from the District
Naval Officer, Circular Quay, Sydney.
Tenders should be endorsed “Tender for
Iron Bars” on top left-hand corner of th e
envelope, and addressed (if by post, prepaid)
to the Director of Navy Contracts, Navy
Office, Melbourne, or to the Director of Navy
Contracts, care District Naval Officer, Sid-
ney.
The lowest or any tender will not neces-
sarily be accepted.
Tenders to be in all cases on the printed
form, which can be obtained as above.
FRANK G. TUDOR,
For Minister of State for Defence.
Missing: Friends. -J.
I7ILLEN (or BRIDGET) McMAHON,
li Daughter of Bridget Berry, formeri)
McMahon. _
The abovenamed, who resided in I » rr . a '
matta about IS9O. and was subsequently m
the service of Mrs. C. Delohery, and ,
believed to have afterwards gone to f rl^ n “
on the North Coast, or into employment
Waverley, will hear of something to. ne
advantage on forwarding her address to—*
12—4116 B, Box 26, G.P.0., SYDNEY
Any person knowing hdr present wtier f
abouts, or, if dead, the date and pl ace ,
her death, is requested to furnish this id
mation.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Melbourne’s hoofball of last Saturday
was played in sheets of water, with more sheets spill-
ing themselves as the games progressed. A biting
south wind further discouraged possible spectators,
so the only decent crowd was at the sheltered Metro-
politan Cricket Ground, where the unbeaten ’Wood
W e< V V f r the over -defeated Students—s 4 points
£2O- Ge elong met the premiers, ’Don, on the East
Melbourne Ground, and provided an exhilarating and
humorous spectacle—mostly a horizontal spectacle—
on the ground. The Geelong “special” was late as
usual, and as the ’bailers dried and changed them-
selves at half-time, it was dark when the disturb-
ance ended —Seasiders, 47 points; ’Don’s, 23. By the
way, whUe they were on the job, the ’Don committee
might have found the sodden, muddy umpires fresh,
dry clothes. A soaked and sloppy umpire is a sour
animal, prone to delay the play with free-kicks
where none are needed. As to the premiers, those
lackadaisical or valetudinarian ’bailers, with five lost
games to their discredit—like Richmond and Mel-
bourne—had better consider their position seriously.
Another defeat will biff them from all hope of enter-
ing the finals, and it is early in the season for such
a catastrophe to overtake the conquerors of last
year. South Melbourne (52 points) polished off
Melbourne (28) with ease and despatch. Carlton
•L P oi ntS ' ) - on St. Kilda (24). Richmond
Wlt j u P° lnts > succumbed to ’Roy, with 43. Rich-
mond has a strong team, and persuades itself that it
has had bad luck in losing to ’Don, South and ’Roy
bv only a few points, but the fact that it, neverthe-
less, loses with mathematical regularity argues a
weak spot somewhere. One more defeat will relieve
it of the need for vigorous endeavor for the rest of
the season.
* * * *
Among the Ass. mudlarks the chief
teat was Don s walloping of the erst-victorious
bcray. It was only a four-point success, but it
counts for as much as one of 40 points. ’Seray ex-
cused itself by saying it couldn’t plav in the mud,
hut a fair-weather team is of no use for ’ball pur-
poses in a Melbourne winter, so ’Scray had better
alter its tactics or its physique, or something. P’ran
galloped over Port by 47 to 28 ; North over ’Cote by
58 to 25 ; and Brunswick lost to ’Town through its
Rf®, t: ,**rous habit of kicking more behinds than goals.
Wick s tally—4 goals 6 behinds—was an improve-
ment on its earlier record, but ’Town’s booting was
specially good under the conditions—s goals 3
behinds. Melbourne City, which was battling against
Brighton on the bleak, wind-swept, waterlogged sea-
side ground, having collected only 14 points to
Brighton s 41 at half-time, decided that the game
wasn t worth the slush, and gave the Seasiders. the
iriatch by default. There was, doubtless, much wis-
dom in this action, yet it is to be hoped the example
Will not spread, or some day a mob of damp and
disgusted barrackers will roll the ’bailers in the
slurry and stamp on them, and the last state of
them will be worse than the first.
* * * * *
Great excitement in Sydney among fol-
lowers of League Rugby on Saturday over the meet-
mg of Glebe and South Sydney. Glebe had so far
not tasted defeat this season, and South Sydney had
2°“ down only once. Both sides were confident
and determined. Also, both were in the pink of con-
dition and everything pointed to a strenuous
struggle. Glebe, in its ruddy uniform, came down
* -f t Pampered lion and threw its mane and its
tail at the Southern centre, massed its weight on the
Southern line, and tried to force its way across and
faJl on the ball. Over 27,000 people looked on and
Sp u-i lou „ d howl th at makes the welkin ring,
while Glebe fought to get that leather across the
line. With a mighty heave, it went over and down,
but a South Sydney man fell on it and prevented the
score, amid yells of delight from his own side and
deep curses from Glebe. Out of a wild mix-up, the
over-eagerness of the Southern pack gave Glebe an
opportunity to let loose a beautiful passing charge, in
which two men, juggling the ball between them,
S j's P j through and scored. The extras were not
added, and Glebe rolled back, feeling good, with
three points to nil. Then, for a while, the Southern
backs went to pieces. They missed easy passes, they
did the things they ought not to have done, and
they kicked like the Devil when they should have
neatly punted in front of their own pack. Fortu-
nately for South Sydney, the pack played magnifi-
cently, and gave the machine a chance to pull itself
together. It did, and came away with a magnificent
passing rush, in which the ball siyept right across
H? e n< ‘ then someone blundered, and one of
nnest charges ever seen ended ingloriously. Glebe
got tfie leather and rushed, and again someone blun-
dered, and a Southern man took a shot at gaol, but
missed. Another charge by South came to
naught through an in-pass, but out of the
hurly-burly the ball suddenly soared towards
qNI ? oa1 ’ dlved between the posts, and
south had scored two points. Three to two in favor
of Glebe the game stood at half-time. When the
game resumed it; was evident that the Southern cap-
tain had done some solid talking. South played a
different game. Eagerness gave way to temperate
0 • ?i_ a 2, d conlb med movement, and then Cann a
mighty Southern fonvard, made the run of the day
the year. Tacklers were brushed aside like
thistledown, and Cann cantered triumphantly over
the ImeaiKl scored. Horder’s kick was a failure, the
ball striking the post, but the score put South Syd-
ney m the lead by five to three. It followed up
with a splendid attack, in which the discipline of the
pack was perfect and the working of the backs fault-
less. Glebe lost its head under the strain, was penal-
ised, and South scored another two-point goal, making
its- score seven to three. Then Glebe threw its brains
into the air and went mad. It had been playing with
more violence than science right through, but at
this sign that Fortune was crossing to the other side
right off the handle. Massing itself into a
sohd bunch, it charged right down the field, and
when the 'masses clashed, a Glebe man swung a
mighty right on to the mouth of the Southern man
who was tackling him. The whistle blew, and the
hospitalled player was hauled out of the m<*lt§e. He
turned out to be Cann, who had made such a mighty
run. He was attended to by the doctor and ambu-
lance men, and his assaulter was ordered off the
field. When the game resumed. Glebe still played
roughly and (hrtHy, and C. Horder, one of the lions
of South Sydney, was kicked on the knee and prac-
tically disabled. It was a bad kick for Glebe, for
the injuied man stuck to his place, and, being un-
able to run when he got the ball, cross-kicked to his
brother, who potted a beautiful goal. This made
the Southern score nine to three. Within the next
five minutes at least half the Southern team was
more_or less disabled, and Glebe made its last series
of efforts The splendid kicking of the Southern
tullback blocked it again and again, but just on time
a five-man pass burst through and lifted the Glebe
\*, c °re to six. Then the whistle blew, leaving the
' Dirty Reds defeated by nine to six.
Compared to this struggle the rest of the competi-
sink into insignificance. Eastern
Suburbs kit the tail of Balmain by 12 points to nil.
Worth Sydney romped over Annandale, the pluckiest
team of the bunch, by 11 points to five; and New-
town defeated, ate up, fell upon, and utterly wiped
out Western Suburbs by 27 points to two. So the
result of the proceedings is that Eastern Suburbs,
which hereinafter will be known as East Sydney, the
premier team, is leading by five victories out of five
matches played, and is at the head of the competi-
tion with 10 points. Glebe, which, very properly,
was walloped on Saturday, shares the second line
with South Sj'dney, with eight points each. North
Sydney and Newtown are together in the third rank
with five points each. Balmain has four, and Annan-
daie and Western Suburbs are nil. Here endeth the
chronicle of the League competition.
In the Union division things are interest-
®ast Sydney, that teeming nest of champions
of all sorts and shapes, is still leading. The surprise
of the day, however, was the showing made by New-
town against the formidable University team. The
Varsity played a magnificent game in the first half,
but went to bits and fragments in the second. At
half-time the scores were even. In the second half,
University backs handled the leather clumsily, and
the Newtown crowd did it perfectly. The result was
that when the whistle blew Newtown was on top by
21 to three, which is an awful drop and crash under
Union rules. It was a debacle, and from the
Varsity side of things, a record defeat. Eastern
Suburbs, hereinafter known as East Sydney, crushed
Glebe by 14 to six. Manly smashed St. George by
14 points to eight. Western Suburbs astonished the
natives, and itself, by walloping the formidable Bal-
main crowd by 14 points to three. South Sydney
went up against North Sydney and prevailed over it
by 15 points to six.
The Soccer Division of Sydney Football
proceeded on the tumultuous tenor of its way on
Saturday. In the struggle for the coveted Gardiner
Gup, Canterbury drank up the Granville Rechabites
by six goals to nil. The secret of the win was that
the Canterbury steward served out a judicious nip
of the best Scotch and Irish at half-time. Weston
walloped Portland by two goals to nil. Balmain’s
First Reserve downed West Wallsend by two goals
to one. Merewether managed to climb on top of
West Sydney by three goals to two. In the Rawson
Cup Competition Balmain walloped Northern Sub-
urbs. by two goals to nil. Granville defeated New-
town by four to two, and Sydney smashed up
Glebe by two to nil.
* * *
The luck of N.S.W. Rugby Union appears
to be dead out. It has to battle with the increasing
popularity of the League, the Soccer and the Aus-
tralian forms of the same biffing of the inflated
fE,?’ F io i a view to .making a splash, it invited
the Maoriland Union to join it in an invitation to a
British and a South African team in 1915 and 1916
respectively. Maoriland replied coldly that it did
not think it desirable to bring the aforementioned
foreigners to these parts, and the N.S.W. Union,
stone broke and not knowing where to turn for a
bean, finds itself left to father the expense of the
whole proposition or the ignominy of dropping it. If
it is wise it will drop it. That is, unless it can find
a Heaven-born manager and a God-specially-created
press agent—the sort of folk that demand high fees
paid in advance.
* * * *
This paper rises to congratulate the Maori-
land Rugby League Executive for its very proper and
necessary wielding of the axe last week. It biffed
out for life one of the best footballers of its bunch
m r T r °“? h Piay, a wight named Savory. At a send-off
at Wellington to the team about to invade Australia,
the rep. of the Executive arose with a gash in his
face which the papers described as “an amiable
and , alle "ed that it was intended to ship
straight back to Maoriland any player who did any-
thing discreditable to the honor of the game and
the team. The smile and remarks were greeted in
dead silence till somebody arose and, calling upon
all present to charge their glasses, waved them
towards the rep. and hissed, “Hail, Csesar, we who
are about to be kicked, salute thee!” After that
frivolity resumed its wonted way.
* * * *
Saturday next will see the Maorilander
Rugby Football Leaguers in battle array against the
paladins of Sydney. The invaders are under the
command of Dr. Thacker, one of the best of managers
and sportsmen in Joseph Ward’s archipelago, and as
the Lord Larkin and his selectors have pondered
many hours, and burned much midnight oil, in the
quest of the best of N. S. Wales, there should be
some strenuous doings.
Melbourne football authorities, League
and Association are up against the problem of how
to deal with the vicious, spiteful player who, bv
long secret practice, has brought the knack of deliv-
ering a heavy, short-arm jolt on an opponent’s jaw
without being noticed, to a fine art. There are said
to be quite a few of them raging round the Mel-
bourne playing grounds this season. At present
about six men supervise every match and keep both
eyes open for tricks and offences of this class; but
the short-arm jolt expert seems to be easily able to
dodge them. It isn't much use crowding more men
on to watch each match; what there are constitute
a , nu l sance an( i block the public view of the game
which is a thing that cannot be tolerated. So any
!r Kht i7 OUn ?T mind that has an T idea of how to sup-
press the .loiter should communicate with the League
and Association and put a price on his suggestion
If these bodies adopt the suggestion and find it effec-
tive, they will, no doubt, pay gladly.
The Australian Motor Cycle Hour Record
is a very unstable quantity these times. A few
TWh 3g f Arm 7, ° f N 7 S ' W -’ sna tched it from J.
oqa i ? f M e l bolir ne, by reeling over 53 miles
280vds. in 60min. J. Booth did not take it quietly
quite otherwise m fact. He wildly leapt upon his
trusty 33-h.p. Dunlop-shod Triumph and roared and
clattered round Melbourne Amateur Sports Ground
till he had covered 55 miles 1348vds. in 60min., thus
adding two miles 1068yds. to Bailey’s little total,
it is understood that Bailey is coming again, muchlv
encouraged to do so by Booth’s statement that 57
miles is quite possible provided tyres that will stand
the terrific rasping of the crude track can be ob-
tained. Writer is not keen on this speed business.
It is a case of jeopardising lives for the sake of
paper glory. But he rises to point out that if the
tracks are available, Australia has riders who can
show the world the way to go. Compared to the
records put up on the perfect tracks of Britain and
Yankee land, 56 miles an hour is dead slow, and vet
to attain to that the Australian rider has to risk
death. Booth himself had a narrow escape in this
particular run Owing to improper banking, his
footrest struck the asphalt at one of the turns, and
he was sent shooting off the track across the grass
Fortunately he managed to keep upright—had he
fallen he would, by this time, have been material
for a plot of daisies. The game is not good enough.
Most of the Yankee boxers who have of
fate visited Australia have gone home to slangwang
the country and generally throw rocks at the people
ror a time it went down, and Australia was about
the worst roasted continent in the world as far as
Amurkan pugs went. But, after a time, the pug
writers began to sit up and take notice, with the re-
sult that Sam C. Austin, one of the top-notch
stoush scribes, recently handed out this little item
to the returned and disgruntled bruisers: “There is
good money in Australia for the boxer who comes
across for a five-fight contract, but some American
boxers, whenever Australia is mentioned, have got
into the habit of asking for rich terms that would
raise a howl of derision if they dreamed of suggest-
ing them to a promoter in America. Nuggets of gold
don’t ■ blow about the streets there any more than
they do elsewhere.” That’s about the truth of it,
too. ,
* * * *
Apparently Johnson is finished, down and
out. The last batch of Yankee papers to hand never
mention his name once, and whetner he is in gaol,
marrying another white girl, running another gilded
cafe, or being locked up for making for the Cana-
dian border is a matter of utter public and press
indifference. This is the ghastly end, for in Amurka
the man the press drops is dead. Apparently, John-
son is dead.
* * * *
Yankeedom has struck a new freak for
wanton wealth, in the shape of “auto-polo.” The
game is played in tri-cars, one wheel in front and
two at the back. The pilot takes no part in the
game. The player is in the back part of the car
dancing about from side to side like the proverbial
cat on the stove. Capsizes are frequent, and narrow
escapes plentiful, and the game is growing in popu-
larity. Of course, it will never boom till a few
players have been killed, but after that, it will be a
great national institution. They tried it at Rane-
lagh, the headquarters of London polo last month,
but the spectators voted it “dull.”
When Percy Lambert put up 103 f miles
an hour in his Talbot on the Brooklands track, the
cognoscenti said, “That’ll last a while!” They spoke
through their hats. A little later, the French crack,
Jules Goux, on the 30-h.p. Peugot he drove to vic-
tory in the last French Grand Prix, crammed and
jammed and stuffed 106 miles 387yds. into the
60min. Goux drove 112 miles at that dizzy speed,
and then his nerves gave way, and he relinquished
the wheel to Boillot, who set out to break all records
up to six hours. Boillot howled over 150 miles in
lhr. 28min. 35-6 sec. Just here his carburetter burst
into flame, and by the time he pulled up, his tail
had been badly singed. His nerve also gave way,
and so did the machine’s, and the making of records
was postponed sine die. Percy Lambert was in
Yankeeland when news of these doings reached him,
and he immediately cabled that when he returned
he would cover 110 miles an hour on the Brooklands
track, or bust himself, machine, track, universe and
everything. Begins to look as though Edge’s mar-
vellous run of 124 miles an hour is at last in serious
danger.
* * * *
The cheerful galoot who makes a holy
show of himself by carrying his cobber astride the
back wheel of his motor-bike is likely to receive
close attention from the police in the near future.
It is not an edifying sight, anyhow, and there is
more than a suspicion that it makes the machine
unwieldy, hard to manage and slow to steer in heavy
traffic, and has thereby caused several bad accidents
lately.
At last something like the perfect motor
lubricant would appear to have struck the market,
and, despite its horror of a free advertisement, this
paper rises to give particulars. The animal is
known as Oildag,” and when first mooted, was
mentioned in these columns some time ago. It is the
invention of Dr. E. G. Acheson, and that versatile
motorist stands on the threshold of a fortune if he
manages the thing correctly. The new lubricant is
composed of one cubic inch of solid defloeulated
graphite mixed with three gallons of ordinary cylin-
der oil. Tests have been made with three cars which
covered an aggregate distance of 42,000 miles, and
not one valve had to be ground. Think of it! The
reasoni is. simplicity itself. A small proportion of the
graphite is carried out into the exhaust, and a smaller
proportion becomes embedded in the surface irregu-
larities of the valves, and has the effect of prevent-
ing p’tting and maintaining compression. That is to
sav, the graphite fills up the microscopic irregulari-
ties of the steel surface till an absolutely perfect fit
is obtained bteween cylinder and piston, so that prac-
tically all oil is wiped down by the piston off the
walls of the cylinder at each stroke. Worked out
to detail, it proves that three times the distance can
be covered with “Oildag” and oil than with ordinary
oil un-reinforced with the graphite. It is • worth
while remembering that ordinary graphite is useless
for this purpose, as it is too coarse. The deflocu-
iated graphite used in the new preparation is 1000
times finer than the ordinary graphite, so it is
obvious that the ordinary mind, unaccustomed to the
chemical fineness of things, finds it hard to realise
how minute are the particles of graphite as used in
the new lubricant. But it is effective. Also, it
lessens carbonisation owing to the lessening of’ oil
consumption. “Oildag” is being marketed in . small
tins, the contents of which are intended to be mixed
with one gallon of ordinary engine oil.
* * *
On Saturday last all Sydney bowling
roads led to Warringah, where City and St. George
fought for the Rawson Cup, the outward and visible
slfirl J of club premiership. In the first-half City
pushed its ears back and fought as a Troian was
supposed to do, and, verily, it had its reward in the
second half, when it won out with 92 to 70 The
Citv bloques were smart enough to win three rinks
and lost the other only by 27 to 25 ; which might
be accepted as pnma facie evidence of superiority
It being the City’s third win of the much desired
utensil, the drinking tub now finds permanent rest-
ing place on the club’s sideboard, and as dear old
Harry Rawson is dead and gone, the Bowling Asso-
siation starts out in search of a fresh donor
*** ' *
In the fifth round of Sydney Lacrosse
premiership matches on Saturday, Svdn'ev and Peter-
sham clashed on the Domain and crept off the sward
at sunset with an even score, five goals each. East-
ern Suburbs tackled the promoted second-graders
Birchgrove, and by hard fighting and blazing effort
saved the clubs bacon by scoring a draw wfth two
goals each. It was something in the nature of a
blessed shock. Mosman travelled bv boat, rail and
tram to Burwood, and got walloped by three goals
• t ( W ° , for „ lts P ains - Manly ' outed * the
A arsity by five goals to three. The fea-
ture of the play was a decided improve-
ment in the defence of all parties. The clubs
now stand m the competition thuslv: East Svdnev
nine points; Petersham, seven; Birchgrove/ five-’
Bin-wood, four; Mosman and Manly, two each- and
’Varsity nary a spot. ’ a
An episode that disclosed itself to*Tnrlo.o
Box, at Bendigo (Vic.) lately, seems to have sur-
prised that gentleman, whose “sporting” education
has evidently been neglected. From the evidence it
appeared that one Ulysses F. Ruedin contracted with
a certain Patrick McGalilee to put €BO into the
latter s bag to lay against a prad named Sunstar
entered for a race at Richmond (Vic.). Sunsta? was
trained by Ruedin’s brother, and the pair finding
swff ta + r n- t 0 be ™ d fat - considered they were on £
sweet thing. Ruedin swore they took €lO from the
v Wner r nd a fair Sl,m from the public, but
that Mcboses aforesaid refused to disgorge eitheV the
divvy or the £BO of capital. Noses swore the whole
thing was a yarn and a Fusion platform and a lieland
the ,iury believed him. In summing-up, his Honor
was sarcastic saying that he didn’t blame the poor
for TT?* w ' n / mEr ' masmuch as he had to carry
ftbo Rl ’f din - bl ' s brother, his nephew
(the inckev), a trifle of public money and his own
superabundant: fat. But one thing Mr. Box forgot to
mention. If the Tote had been in existence Patrick
Mcboses and all the Ruedins in the State could make
nothing whatever by the tricks alleged, and mu St go
and get work, and even a fool owner who wanted to
t p nnPr T/ 1 bog;fat horse would probably not
do so. because the trainer, with no hope of getting
arn thing out of the race, would dissuade him from
Thus the Tote is a strong encourTgeVTf
good morals and honest work and sound sense.
* * *
An Adelaide racehorse-owner has had a
curious haddock "double.” First, the iockev pre
sented himself at scale to weigh out in an “incapa-
«I ate ’ a^ d , was P rom Ptly wiped off for the rest of
Ind thol'n Tn- P ° Wner was ablp t 0 W* another bov.
and, though this one was capable in every sense of
the word, the horse fell at the third t „
to be destroyed. rc *® nce . and had
* * *
In Sydney Baseball premiership r
Cove is the only club which has not Sf > f P ane
the leek in the four rounds of the c’omnJtv cheWed
Saturday the players from Gordon deffi I°"' 0n
by eight to five, which, though th» d Burw <>od
final win of the day, was sufficient M Worst ™u-
North Sydney scored a glorious victora T"" 1 , anti
versity by 14 to nine; Leichhardt wi v r Uni-
Tower of Babel, on Waverley and buried h lk f the
to two; and the bulldogs of Petersham * nder 10
players from Paddington to shreds and tattle the
to five. It was a day of big srnr« by 12
batsmen, clubmen or waddy-wielders SiJ nd the
banging* of the tripe* which "the £"2^
“Aero” : The Australian Flying Com ■
equipping in England. A Bristol him B or PS IS
monoplanes have been shipped, and too® tw °
pkmes are being made. Expert Petre " f™? bi ‘
Australia; and expert Harrison is coming
skilled mechanics. Petre is strongest on two
Harrison on biplanes. Harrison and cLto nn "“i
the mechanics, are Australians. These are fh >. e . of
nings of the staff of the Aviation School
ment biplane, already in Australia, is calle/tS’m®'
Bristol and is for the use of advanced pupik u"
taxi, which does not fly, but rolls and P e
aerial tricks, and the Deperdussin mononlanf whkh
pS«,rwi£ »*.?;!
* * *
The scrap at Svdnev Stadium w
Englishman Alfred Spenceley and AustralrinTt 11
Read, on Saturday night, supplied overwhelm?™/ 0 *
dence that the best defence is a straight S eV J'
left. Read, who. was heavier and
opponent, came in again and again to kill “
always plugged by that same left" which caul?
the nose, or under the eye, or somewhere else the*
it caused inconvenience and blew out the „,*• f ?
intention of the gentleman who called In
Read did manage to get in close he i!' 1
work with right and left to the body, but thelw
lishman mostly danced away to safety r!l„3
to Read the strength of the EnglisS wasThK
a mosquito to a bee, but his alacrity made m V
fnol Ot H° f t i ingS h l n the J 4th and 15th 3 rounds It
looked as though he would go down through sheer
exhaustion, but a wary corner man gave him mZ
thing out of a bottle, and another wise w™ h t hdd
something under his nose. After that he came on
ike a lion and did not retire like a lamb H
banged Read unmercifully, and always danced awav
out of danger. Close to the end a mighty left sent
Read staggering to the ropes. Read came tack
only to find that he had quite a new tiger on his
hands—a tiger that fought so fiendishly that th
Australian was compelled to give way and wV
refuge in defeat. It was a curious fight, in w £
an apparently exhausted man suddenly came back
and not only out-boxed his foe hut out-fought him’
and by sheer ferocity compelled the stronger man to
back away to save his beauty. At the end the
verdict was in favor of Spenceley, and the house
rose as one man and said “Hooray!”
. The chairman of the English Congrega-
tional Union solves the problem of the
empty church : “Pull out all the pews and
wooden benches, and substitute tip-up
cushioned chairs.” Well, one certainly
could get a more comfortable sleep in them.


EVERY MAN SHOULD
LEARN TO BOX.
wrn.
i
i
i
1
i
i
1
i
1
1
i
i
i
i
i
1
i
t
i
»
i
1
i
i
I
1
i
i
I
i
i
i
Is
Yes. To learn to better protect himself
against aggression.
You rteter know the moment you may b"
called upt* to' "put up” your hands.
THEN Writ NOT BE PREPARED BY
“KNOWING
All the theory gained fcy Watching the
best boxers in the world wiff be useless,
unless you have a practical knowledge.-
Remember, it has taken many years Of
constant sparring and “scrapping” for the
best “pugs” to develop their powers.
But under my efficient system you’ll have
revealed to you the most serviceable moves
in Boxing—hits and stops that have taken
years to evolve to their present high stan-
dard. There is no excuse for you to remain
a crude, inexperienced man with your
hands. You can learn in your own home.
I TEACH BOXINC
BY POST
’ teach you how to better care for ttfurSeif, aftd All yoti with that confidence that cmnes from a
knowledge that you “know how.” You will be surprised at the simplicity of the 1 tuition,- and at
ydur rapid progress which my efficient methods ensure. You’ll fin'd the instruction l an enjoyable
pastime, brimful of health-giving relaxation and exercise. You’ll be always glad you learnt to better
defend yourself. It’s a life-long asset.
You’d better make a start by getting ftiy terms and descriptive booklet now. Kindly send 1 three
pfenny stamps tb cover postage.
REG. L.
(“Snowy")
BAKER,
192 Belmont Buildings,
CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
IF
YOU WILL go in for
Sport,
YOU WILL go in for Best
Material,
YOU WILL always obtain
this at
L.W. DODGE SCO.
SYDNEY SPORTS STORES,
NOW LOCATED AT
10 & 12 HUNTER ST.,
SYDNEY.
PILE PILLS.
PERMANENT CURE.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS.
Non-aperient. A sure and speedy cure for all cases
of Internal and External Piles.
Have Cured Thousands of Cases, some after suffering
over 40 years.
Made and sold by ANDREW MURPHY, WOY
WOY (N.S.W.), Sole Proprietor.
PRICE 3/- Per Box, Post Free.
On Sale at All Druggists and Chemists throughout
the States.
CONFIDENTIAL LETTERS
A
&
C< SS G
remain Private when the Zanetic
N.S.C. Copying Book is used.
You slip your note paper into the
holder, write your letter, and the
copy is made as you write (in ink).
“Letter shows no sign of Copying”
The letter is posted and the book
put away. 400 Octavo (Bin. by 5 )
letters or 200 Quarto can be copied
in N.S.C./200, Post Free for 3/9:
or 800 Octavo or 400 Quarto in
N.S C./400, Post Free, for 51.
Special Small Octavo Book, mak-
ing 200 copies, for P.O. 8/- Post
- Free; or double capacity 4/3.
Zanetic Pens, 3d. doz., 2/- gross. Zanetic Writing Paper, size
Bxs, l/.pkt., 10 x 8,2/- Sample of the Zanetic Ink paper which
produces this result, Free, if stamped envelope sent to :
S. B. ZANETIC, Zanetic Works, Welford Road, LEICESTER, England.
SHELL’
BENZINE
THE CLEAN
AND
POWERFUL SPIRIT
FOR ALL MOTORS
My “Three Crown”
Manila Cigars
Actual Sizes,
and Cheroots are of
specially good quality,
arid, according to many
of my customers, are
the best Manilas ob-
tainable in Australia,
They smoke, mild, arid
are excellent value.
No. 1 Cheroot
(as illustrated).
In boxes of 50’s, 14/-;
27/6 per 100.
No. 2 Cheroot
In boxes of 100, 21/-
CIGARS.
PERLAS. —In Boxes of
25’g, 6/-.
HIGH LIFE.—In Boxes
of 50’s, 24/- per 100.
LONDRES.—In Boxes
of 100’s, 18/6.
P E R F E C TOS.—In
Boxes of 25’s, 10/-
See my Special Win-
dow Display of “Three
Crown” Manilas.
My Catalog illustrates
a Very Choice Range
of Cigars, Tobaccos,
Cigarettes, etc. Send
for a Copy.
’A. M. SOLOMON,
CIGAR EXPERT,
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, i
HIMRODS
ASTHMA POWDER
r CIYES INSTANT RELIEF.
No matter what your Respiratory
Organs may be suffering from—
whether Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough —you will
find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austra-
lasian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the offices, 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
L. & F. CO., LIMITED.
Secure Highest Market Rates
for all consignments of Wool,
Wheat, Hides, Skins and Tallow
entrusted to them and render
returns promptly.
BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
There’s a Rig'ney Shoe
for Every Foot
We have a Rigney Shoe to fit every known foot.
Rigney Shoes are a step in advance of all other
footwear in style, comfort, appearance and dura-
bility.
We send RIGNEY Shoes by post, with the privi-
lege of returning if not satisfactory.
The Boot here shown is a Choice Tan Russia
Derby Boot, kid lined, very stylish and dressy.
Also in Black.
and 27 j 6.
Can be had with or without
punching on cap.
Postage, 9d. extra.
Write to-day for a copy of
our New Catalog, it is
just out.
pi£rt*ir
m
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.,
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,"
305 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY;
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
“Old Clo’ Man” r What a changeful time
these monarchs have when they meet
together at the wedding of one of their royal
females! For instance: George, of Fng-
land, while racing along in his train, with a
German airship doing escort duty overhead,
is informed by an abject servitor with a
permanent hinge in his back that Potsdam
is in sight. This being the darn soot he is
making for, he throws his cigar out of the
window, and, retiring to his dressing apart-
ment, changes his English suit or uniform
for a German fancy dress. At the same
moment, Kaiser Bill is throwing some dis-
carded costume at a bent valet and climbing
into his complimentary English fighting
clothes. He duly meets George, grasps him
by the hand, and hurries him away to the
palace. As soon as he has his disloyally
attired friend comfortably fixed with a cigar
and a drop of something short he has to rip
off his British Field-Marshal’s duds and
yank on his Russian outfit to meet the Czar,
who is discoA'ered in a breathless and
flushed condition masquerading in the
uniform of the First Blutwursts, of which
he is honorary colonei. The way these
kings wear each other’s clothes shows a
nice friendly spirit and a fine disregard of
expense; but, as well as being complimen-
tary, it is also confusing, and, if the
wrong monarch gets the Czar’s bomb, it
won’t be the fault of the officiating
anarchist.
0
4,
C-D
EVERY
WISE
MOTORIST
USES
TYRES
TO MOTORISTS. —If you have not received by mail a copy of our new 32-page,
Illustrated Catalogue of Motor Tyres and Accessories —please forward name and
address, and a copy will reach you by the next post. It’s worth having.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Christchurch, Wellington.


zr
kM
50
m
I
The Bishop of Bath and Wells writes: “The
value of Formamint as a preventive is
appreciated in this house.”
The Archdeacon of Bristol writes : “I habitually
carry Wulfing’s Formamint with me as a
preventive of Sore Throat.”
The Earl of Kilmorey writes : “I am glad to give
my testimony to the soothing and curative
effects of your potent remedy—Formamint,
with which lam so familiar. As is my
constant practice, I keep one of your brown
bottles on my dressing table.”
How to Avoid Infectious Diseases.
Do you realise that most of the dangerous infectious
diseases, such as Diphtheria, Consumption, Influenza, Scarlet
Fever, Measles and the like, are caused by germs which gain
entrance to the body through the mouth and throat ?
The minute living organisms which produce such diseases
grow and develop like the seeds of plants, and the mouth and
throat form an ideal hot-house for cultivating them.
The scientist, of course, can grow them outside the body,
artificially. For example, a test-tube culture of the germs
which cause Consumption is depicted here ; and also a bottle
of Wulfing’s Formamint —the means which Science has found
to destroy such germs in the mouth and throat, and so protect
us against the diseases which they breed.
WULFJNG *5 • .
rormammt
the CERM'KILLfNG THROAT TABLET
These harmless and palatable tablets contain the most
powerful destroyer of disease germs known to Science. They
dissolve in the saliva, and the disinfectant is thus carried to
every little crevice, chink, or cranny in the mouth, gums,
tonsils and throat. Thus all germ growths are sought out and
destroyed, their spread is checked, their power to do harm is
entirely broken.
As a preventive of infectious disease, Formamint Tablets
should be used daily by everyone, in health or sickness, and
they are particularly recommended for school children, who
are so exposed to infection, especially at this time of the year.
Beware, however, of harmful imitations ; there is only one
genuine Formamint, viz. Wulfing’s, and all Chemists sell it at
2s. 6d. per bottle. The manufacturers, A. Wulfing & Co.,
17, Bond Street, Sydney, N.S. W., will gladly send you a Free
Sample and an interesting Booklet, if you write to them,
mentioning this paper, and enclose two penny stamps towards
postage.
The Inky Way.
A few pleasant words from the Filipino news-
paper, El Ideal, apropos a recent Bulletin “Plain
English”:—
“At first we felt indignation, and afterwards,
strongly inclined to laugh, upon reading the long
series of ridiculous ideas contained in a long article
in the ■ Sydney Bulletin, which its namesake in this
capital was pleased to reproduce.
“To be brief, we shall say that the filthy sheet
which so dislikes us, merely because we are brown,
because the odious note of race hatred predominates
in all of it, asserts that the Filipino people of these
times has never been better than the people the
Spaniards found here several centuries ago, and is in
several things Worse than they; that our Assembly
is a comic opera ; that if it were not for the whites
the Moros would come to strike it a mortal blow ;
that the Filipino is a man who would burst with
vanity and insolence at the mere idea of being able
to have a white man subject, and that, for that
reason, in case of independence, the programme of
the white residents—Americans, Spaniards, English
Portuguese, French, etc. —should be the constitution
of a republic among themselves, creating, as quickly
as possible, a militia to dissolve the absurd Philip-
pine Assembly and put the archipelago up at
auction.
“He who wrote this article must be hopelessly
insane, or, at least, under the brutalising influence
of the drunkenness of race superiority, and we shall
not, therefore, be the ones to pick a quarrel with
him, since there are plenty of alienists in the world.
But we sincerely believe that the Filipino, with the
most modest aspirations, would not be vain of hav-
ing him in his service.
“As for the rest, a shamelessly racial campaign,
such as the filthy Australian sheet proclaims, would
not be so prejudicial to the Filipinos as to the for-
eigners who thrive in this country.
“To conclude. We have said that it seems to us
that the author of the article in question is hope-
lessly insane, and we do not, therefore, demand of
him logic nor acquaintance with the things of which
he speaks,” etc., etc.
There are good points about this attack (only a
portion of it is printed, but an effort has been made
to select the most violent and picturesque sections),
but it isn’t what it might be. It certainly calls
The Bulletin filthy and the editor drunken and
insane, but these are everyday adjectives. In
reply, this paper hereby accuses the writer of the
above-quoted attack of piracy, barratry, bigamy with
violence, house-breaking on the high seas, simony in
a public place, resisting the police and tearing his
own uniform, forgery of a piece of brown paper,
blind staggers, passing a counterfeit farthing, tres-
pass by being on the face of the earth when he
shouldn’t be, and breach of the municipal regula-
tions by leaving a noxious substance —to wit, him-
self—in the full view of the public. The writer
could do a lot better than the above if he had
more time to spare, but this is his busy day. His
other busy days are all the rest of the days.
Lord Rosebery, who presided at the annual dinner
of the London Press Club the other day, confessed
that he had got rusty as a public speaker, and was
going right out of the business. That was the last
assembly of journalists he would ever address—“or
any other assembly either perhaps,” he added. Talking
about papers and politicians, he rejoiced at the dis-
appearance of long speeches from the papers. “Their
removal has provided space for matters of more in-
terest, and it is one of the greatest reliefs the news-
paper reader has ever experienced.” Incidentally, he
confessed that an audience of journalists was the most
difficult of all to address —“composed of the most
critical, cynical and blase listeners to speeches that
could be collected Within the four walls of a room.”
* * » *
“H.G.”: Something of a record in provincial jour-
nalism has been put up bv the Border Watch, at
Mount Gambier (S.A.). The paper—a bi-weekly—
was founded by Andrew Frederick Laurie in Anril,
1861. Earlv in April, 1863, he was joined by John
Watson. The latter took over the control of the
editorial section, and Laurie looked after the other
end, and they have been cutting things up that way
ever since. The senior partner learned his business
with the old-established Portland Guardian, while
Watson commenced as a comp, in the office of the
Forres Gazette in Scotland. Laurie is 72, Watson
78, and both appear good for years yet.
It was in the Border Watch that Will
Ogilvie’6 first verse was published, and also many
of Adam Lindsay Gordon’s poems; and it was from
this office that Gordon’s “The Feud’’ was issued.
Most of the men on the staff remember these things.
One reporter has been there for 40 years, and in the
back are comps, with records of 43, 30, 22 and 17
years. The policy of the paper has —well, never
been wildly Socialistic.
* * * *
“W.J.H.”: An important newspaper deal has been
made in Auckland, where Wilson and Horton, of the
Weekly News, have bought the Graphic, just to
clear it out of the way. This will give the excellent
News a clear run in the North Island; and it bumps
the Otago Witness (Dunedin), Weekly Press and
Canterbury Times (Christchurch) pretty hard in
the South Island as well. From the working journal-
ist’s point of view, the Auckland weekly deserves its
success. Its contributors don’t, as a rule, have to
get a microscope to read the figures on their cheques.
* * * *
The latest volume by Mrs. Campbell Praed —one
of the Murray Priors, of Queensland —contains a
good many Australian allusions. Titled “Our Book
of Memories,” it is the record of her friendship and
collaboration in novel-writing with the late Justin
McCarthy. In one of his letters to her McCarthy
narrates a conversation he had with Frederick
Broome, a former Times reporter, who became Gov-
ernor of Westralia. McCarthy questioned Broome
about the accuracy of “Moondyne,” the Westralian
romance written by John Boyle O’Reilly, one of the
Fenian prisoners transported there in the ’6o’s.
Broome replied that O’Reilly’s romantic and intelli-
gent savages were myths: “There is no such race of
beings in Westralia. The blacks are even lower
there than in other parts of Australia. See what it
is to be a poet!” Mrs. Praed sent McCarthy a
copy of “Robbery Under Arms,” a book which she
said “brought into the jaded heart of social London
a savor of wild adventure from the Australian
bush, and a whiff of the distinctive odor of the gum-
tree forests of my youth. McCarthy was delighted
with the story and wrote to her that “ever so many
people are talking about it. Huntlv (his son) is wild
with admiration for it.” McCarthy told Mrs. Praed
that “Old Berris of Boggo Creek” was the “most
vivid of her Australian short stories.” She says she
wrote it on “a foggy and inexpressibly dreary March
day in London.” A magazine editor had commis-
sioned her to write a short bush story, but the hideous
weather had depressed .her and she could not allow
her imagination to work. She was about to throw it
up in despair when the housemaid brought in a
present from a friend. It was an Australian rose.
The London fog vanished; she was again back in the
bush, and the story was easy.
One John B. Flowers is getting on with a voice-
operated typewriter. If the machine arrives, with its
steel reeds working the keyboard by vibration, the
verbatim report will at last be an accomplished fact,
and a number of political reputations will fade out
amid the loud laughter of the multitude. Then the
person in Parliament will weep over the memory of
the reporter who is gone, and sigh for the kindly
veil that once shrouded his “er” and “haw” and his
lost “h.”
* » * *
“Melb.”: The Herald is our oldest paper. In the
’4o’s it was the principal morning sheet and pros-
pered under the editor and proprietor Cavenagh.
Its reporters were “Garryowen” Finn and eccen-
tric Jack Curtis, who became legendary, like Charley
Miran in the theatrical world. Wilson and Johnston
bought the Argus for a song, said to be only f 300.
Three morning dailies then: Herald. Argus. News.
The Argus bought the News, and soon became far
and awav the top dog. The Age started in 1854.
Three “mornings” again: Argus, Age. Herald.
There wasn’t an evening paper of any stability or
consequence till the Herald changed its hour of
issue. Svme got hold of it and foolishly tried to
work it with the Age. lifting metal from one into
the other. Hence, “the Symese Twins.” Then came
a poor time, while manager Winter educated himself
up to be editor. Jim Middleton might have been the
Aneel Gabriel but still would only have been editor
pro tem. —until, in short, Sam thought himself fit
for the big job. When that happened, Middleton
became a mere news editor.
One Ettmann, a converted Jew, has come
to Australia as agent of the Society for the
Conversion of the Jews ; and the bristles of
Rabbi Cohen, in Sydney, and Rabbi Abra-
hams, in Melbourne, are up. The Quakers
have taken him in hand, though those care-
ful people must shiver when they_ read that,
as an average, every “conversion” costs
£BOO. And, worst of all, it is alleged that
one Jew has been known to be converted six
times, and has been paid for it each time, and
even then he slid back into the faith of
Jerusalem when he grew old, and died a cast-
iron Israelite.
Sir Tatton Sykes, an English sporting
identity, Who died the other day, was true to
his family traditions in his last, will and
testament. He bequeathed £5OO to each of
17 churches for their upkeep. Having
been brought up to think that church-going
among the “masses” was a thing to be en-
couraged, the cheerful sinner reckoned it a
fair thing to endow those 17 places of
divine worship with a “monkey” apiece.
An ancient pair of Bacchus March (Vic.)
vegetators had a golden wedding celebration
at the local hall the other week. These Paul
Johnstons are as old as the town, in fact, the
dame dates back to the very beginning of
settlement thereabouts. Her parents brought
her to Bacchus Marsh 74 years ago (she is
now 76), and there she has remained all her
life seemingly. Paul Johnston didn’t arrive
on the scene until 1853, and there he stayed.
At the age of 83 he can look back on only 60
years of Bacchus Marshian existence, so his
wife still regards him as a comparative new
chum. The story of life from the point of
view of a couple who have totalled 134 years
in the serenity of Bacchus Marsh should be
interesting in a way. One would like to hear
their reminiscences of famous local residents
and exciting social incidents, and the brilli-
ant cattle they have met. Probably the open-
ing of the local butter factory marked the
reddest-lettered day in their joint career.
“Reflector” : Re the imported Commander
Brewis, who, it is was agreed by those in-
terested in the matter, had the appointment
of Lighthouse Service Director to the Com-
monwealth in his pocket. Brewis was
brought from England especially to report
on the coast lights, and, when he had done
so, all was ready to take over the various
State services on July 1. But the first
necessity was a director for the new Service.
To meet the requirements of the Public Ser-
vice Act, one was duly advertised for, but the
position was a gift for Brewis, because can-
didates were required to have served in the
British Navy, and to be familiar with all
Australian lighthouses. Just there Brewis
cocked his quarter-deck nose at the offer of
£BOO a year, and, as the Government
wouldn’t spring any more loot, he is off, and
a director is being sought elsewhere. This
time a tremendous effort is to be made to pull
through somehow without getting a man from
the King’s Bull navee. In fact, a mere
Australian will probably be given a chance.
But keep it dark!
Julia Hansen, of North Melbourne ha
a Victorian record. She is a woman hro
. , . - .. a vvornan of 52.
a weakness for liquor and “langwidge ”
and she has been convicted 219 times ah’
gether. That is to say, the Law has had oit
bouts with Julia, and has got the hpttl «
the argument every time. Yet she is still °*
deck, and coming up for more. Wh +° n
futile, foolish old law it is! • a
. pnTnnl „: nt fr . m „
~ Co “ Plai nt fro “ wailoa
wllf tim^n?»<*h P ? pl + e >.- in Sydn «y
fool of a it is to C ram every a
into a port that was pretty crowded alrrarit ha -r e
make more dead-sure of having the drowning D en 1
the warboats don’t, of course, allow themselves to&
governed by any mere harbor regulations regarding
-g* A °» ft SLTWWnAHr S
v ited each other up the river for a sunnb ln j
oil. They chose the busiest part of the day-—s il
a.m.—and streaked across the Quay, certainly not
und !F l4 - k li ots ’J* n * increased the speed as they got
way-whkh wasn’t the fault‘ o of the desTmyeV" R e e
cently two North Coasters were fined for* a noorp
sprint than that over some of the same course from
which it seems that somebody does recognise that
there’s danger in it. When we have collected a
respectable fleet, and the Federal Government insists
on keeping it all in Sydney Harbor, instead of in
ro omy ports along the coast where there are
ferries to smash up and no passengers to drown
well, I will lay 25 to 1 on the warship, whatever it
1S > wllen the bump arrives,
“The Religious Editor” : I see that an old
gentleman nearly got himself slain bv a
Svdnpv + rflm + bp nttipr dav p. \.
J , 1 f f/’ JJe threw his
S
ilocl 'him Song’theVad^Afit’mlw'
-j f h f f i. ’ +b P s *1 1)11 M
"ft rotlnff and unite tt! fif !t *?
:ro " !d q °? t a^iomfonabß
ft e f lay T? f 0 e
ft? a SL b S Y
Th irrepressible ancients that pursue
unnndirJ™« 3 with !ntho l er!Vh, P “
wdfhn t th P Spam 5
worry to ’ the man
S™* w°.to the official^,'
board ’ balancer with the bag of small chang ,
. + hp h k f tipkpts and + hp _ !b
lo three ways at once. Where a
man sprints like a hound and leaps like a
goat, the oldest inhabitant makes a sort of
blundering Balaclava charge with his whis-
bers streaming in the wind. Then, while
the young man has only his pipe and his
con ceit to carry, the oldster is always en-
cumbered with parcels, pot plants, news-
papers, flapping garments, memories of the
past and other burdens. If the tram isn’t
stopped in time, he flings himself at it like
a panther with a broken mainspring. and.
falling slio:t, lands heavily on his whiskers,
amidst howls of execration from passengers
an d bystanders. The howls are never di-
rected at the real culprit, but by some grim
irony are invariably aimed at his innocent
victims, the motor-man and the collector.
I can hardly contain my honest indignation
whenever I see two tram chauffeurs cower-
Jag in the street, while an aged man who has
dashed himself on the pavement works his
hair and beard threateningly in their faces,
Old men love to threaten people in public
places and perform generally like lions that
have lost their teeth.


if 'isg&jtgg.
<b £s«#
/
-N
r-C\<\
V
( '
"•\l\
( t-
r jr
/'
\ ! \
, I
V.-"
•y' i 4 /
.x /- -...,> L
-• v 'i-VX\ ' ""\
w
:>r
■•c-r-fi
«r
'/<■
r~ ;
//:
/v
fr
a-
user
fix'
'v*
V.y
,’C •’
"Tvri
i*~
0-5
£
MQ
V.,--
V
JWSttsu*
S 0
N
K.
:/ A
V;
s
•**
;1
>
Sv*2-2
©
/
SS
?7^
v-g?
;<y“s
f t.<
*/
i.'/s
sfe
: -
j"
.. •'•■
-'7/r
••Vy.:*
r:
« ff
xV V ‘
,S» w ( .< '«£* / V
Z£?. I
•; {' *vf |
Sfte Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo
Of Akim Foo
Takes the ball of
Leather thro’.
Tho’ they rush and
Tackle low,
Chunder wriggles
Past the foe
Till he dashes
O’er the line.
Then the football
Does he shine.
Saying to the
Chaps around,
“‘COBRA’- keeps the
Leather sound I ”


Weighed
only 9 lb.
“My little daughter was so
ill that she had to be carried
on a pillow until 11 months
old and only weighed 9 lb.
Thanks to SCOTT’S Emul-
sion, at 18 months she could
walk, talk, and
had all her teeth.
She is now two years old and
weighs 26 lb., yet everyone
thought she would be a life-
long invalid. Her'robust health
is remarkable testimony to the
wonderful curative power of
SCOTT’S.”—(Mrs.) A. Ashley,
Victor Street, Maylands,
Adelaide, S. Australia. 15/7/12
scons
Emulsion
TRADE
v, 4
MARK
Every package of the genuine SCOTT'S
bears the fishman trade mark
SHORT Stories, Novels,
Poems, etc., Wanted.
We are commissioned by a well-known
weekly journal to offer prizes of £lO 10s.
and £5 ss. for the best short stories sub-
mitted before July 31, 1913.
We also have a purchaser for a novel by
an Australian writer.
Highest prices secured for Short Stories,
Poems, Special Articles, etc.
MS. revised and every assistance given to
beginners.
1913 Prospectus posted free on request.
Australasian Literary Agency,
Pendennis Chambers, Sydney.
ANTINEURASTHIN
TREATMENT OF
NERVOUS AND WASTING DISEASES.
The wonderful properties of Antineurasthin (Leci-
thin in an absolutely pure form) for successfully
treating all nerve maladies, Dyspepsia, Anaemia,
Rheumatism, etc., and imparting permanent mental
and nerve force, reflect the latest and most important
achievements in medical science.
One of the most important of the wonderful re-
sults obtained by this treatment is that not alone
does it build up the nervous system by feeding the
brain and nerve-cells with their natural food ele-
ment, but on account of its beneficial action upon
the process of nutrition and upon the blood, the
whole general health shows prompt improvement,
particularly in wasting diseases.
A FREE TRIAL.
In order that the worth of Antineurasthin may be
tested, a sample supply, together with a treatise on
nervous maladies, will be forwarded to any address
in Australia on receipt of 2d. in stamps to cover
postage by the wholesale representative, H. A. God-
dard No. 3 Australasian Chambers, 406-414 Queen
Street, Brisbane; or Branches: 194 Vickery’s Cham-
bers, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney; 9-15 Safe Deposit
Buildings, Queen Street, Melbourne; 3 Ellershaw’s
Buildings, Cliff Street, Fremantle; 213 Smeeton’s
Buildings, Queen Street, Auckland.
Serial No. 810. —Guaranteed under the Pure Foods
Act of New South Wales by H. A. Goddard, Sydney,
to contain not less than 10 per cent. Pure Lecithin.
No. 810. [2
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla—when
the blood is thin and impure,
when the nerves are weak and
unsettled, when the food does
not digest well—Ayer’s Sar-
saparilla.
A CORRESPONDENT writes : “There is
r\_ always one feature in The Lone
Hand each month that is alone worth the
price charged for the whole number.” The
price of The Lone Hand is 6d.
STAMMERING.
K/ R. W. A. YEARSLEY, Bowen Terrace, Mel-
bourne. Under special appointment to Munici-
pal Education Committees, England and South
Africa. Method approved Board of Education, Eng.
Subsidised by Governments. Awarded Gold Medal
for excellency. Booklets sent free.
DON'T NEGLECT
YOUR HAIR
Your looks demand that you
should take care of it, make
it more beautiful, more lus-
trous, softer ; you can easily
and readily do so by using
ROWLAND’S
MACASSAR
OIL
which nourishes, strengthens,
nurtures, and promotes the
growth of Fine Silky Hair;
you will notice an improve-
ment from the first time you
use it. Use it for your own
and your Children’s Hair;
Golden Colour for Fair Hair.
Sold in three sizes by Stores,
Chemists, and Rowland’s,
67, Hatton Garden, London.
Avoid cheap imitations under
the same or similar name.
Make Your
Own Records.
Secure an Edison Home Record-Making
Outfit, and you will be able to get a clear
lifelike record of the voice or music of
yourself and vour friends. The Outfit
comprises a new Edison 4-minute Re-
corder, 3 Blank Records, each one of
which can be shaved from 50 to 75 times
before being discarded, and an Edison
Home Shaving Machine, by means of
which the blank can be given a new sur-
face after a Record has been made.
The price of this Outfit, complete, in
Australia, is £2; in New Zealand,
£2/12/6. Full instructions for its use
are included in a booklet obtainable of any
Edison dealer, or direct from us. You
should go to-day to your dealer and have
him demonstrate this home record-making
feature of the Edison Phonograph to you.
THOMAS A EDISON, LTD,
(Wholesale only),
Dept. 8., 364-372 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Have You Tried Herbs
for Your Illness ?
For hundreds of years the common, simple herbs were all that were used as medicines—
and the people in the olden times used to live longer and healthier.
I believe Herbs will often cure where other treatment fails —in fact, I know many, many
cases where this has been so. And I want you to try the simple, natural Herb Cure for
your complaint. Tell me your symptoms and all particulars—l will send you a full
month’s supply of Herbs, suited for your illness, with full direction how to use them.
For this full month’s course I charge £2/2/- It will prove the best investment you ever
made. Try it! Write to-day, and send postal notes of any State.
J. W. CASE, ph. c„ m.p.s.,
Botanic Pharmacist, BRISBANE, Q.
hfd
h
fdh
SMORERS and
NON-SMOKERS
>
find Pebeco Tooth Paste the best remedy for any disagree-
able taste. It makes your breath sweet and fragrant and
restores tinted teeth, without injury, to their natural color.
Pebeco is a complete and ideal health course for the mouth
and teeth.
OBTAINABLE ALL CHEMISTS.
Trial Tube of Pebeco, with useful Book and interesting
test, Free for three penny stamps, on application to the
Sole Agent,
G. ARNOLD
(Dept. M), 6 O’Connell Street,
(WHOLESALE ONLY).
Sydney
J
Hunyadi Janos
Good health is the grandest of all possessions, and there can
be no doubt but what perfect digestion is one of the chief aids
to such a condition.
Hunyadi Janos Natural Aperient Water is Nature’s remedy for
disorders of the stomach, bowels and liver. A wineglassful
taken on arising, before breakfast, will be found to give almost
immediate relief.
CONSTIPATION
Moving Pictures
For the Winter Evenings.
•We have in Stock at the present time
several Portable Electric and Limelight
Outfits, at remarkably low prices.
WHY NOT GIVE YOUR
OWN SHOWS ?
They are suitable for large or small halls,
or may be used in your own home.
These plants are quite up to date, and
are easily explained and controlled.
We have issued a Special Booklet on
them. Please send for one.
J KELVIN
GENERATING SET
A new Shipment of Silent Empire Biographs and Kelvin Generating e
has just arrived.
All of the latest improvements—and all of the old good points.
Send for our Empire Booklet. It contains everything of interest for the Shown 13
JERDANS LTD.,
393 George Street,
_ SYDNEY.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Parrakeetyah: No haze about it at all.
There are trusts and trusts. The Laborites recognise
that fact by proposing to deal with injurious trusts.
Dailey’s point was that, unified Britain having the
power to deal with trusts in exactly the same way
as the Commonwealth wants the power to deal with
them, they are comparatively innocuous in that
country, whereas in the U.S. they are a curse because
the work of controlling them is left to individual
States, as in Australia at present.... Sos: We have
little time or space for the English Tory and his
vagaries. The local one is trying enough to keep us
busy....J. B. Stewart: Couldn’t you acquire
some common sense, or some grammar, or
some accuracy, or something?.... G.V.W.: You
say you were served with a sixpenny meal on a
steamer flying the U.S.S. Co.’s (M.L.) flag, and that
now you don’t wonder at the expensive fittings of the
co.’s newest mail boat. Now do you mean a two and
sixpenny meal or merely sixpence worth of beer?....
Frank: Your contribution, “Votes for Women,’’looks
like a Cubist picture of the emotions of a cabman
on being tendered his strict legal fare. A micro-
scopic examination convinces us that it is not worth
while blunting the eyesight of the staff on it....
H.W.D.: Unsuccessful experiments. .. .Harry T.
(M.L.) : Accept the Religious Editor's deepest sym-
pathy. He does all the funerals for the office....
H.V. (Manly): Unsuitable. .. .Luke W.: If you must
know, the rabbit-o isn’t real, his speech isn’t
natural, he has nothing to tell, and his alleged lit-
erary host is a sort of idle phantom, with an empty
whisky decanter in one spectral hand, and a bone-
dry syphon in the other. The sketch has
other minor faults, but the ones detailed above are
enough to go on with....J.P. (Q.): Not 18-carat
verse... .C.E.G.: They all fail. Apparently there
were no stamps enclosed for the return trip....
P.P.: Tasmanian notes only worth a short par....
P.P.Q. (V.) : For one thing, your call to arms conies
too late. Best wishes for quick recovery. .. .R.N.C.:
Heaved out with a sickening crash.... Engineer:
Sorry, but “Down and Out’’ just expresses it....
M.A.: No room for Ned —not even if his other name
hapnened to be Ke11y.... Homo: Poem quickly blows
itself out. .. .Farmer F.: Note with interest that
some “political' brigands are on their slimy way to
Hell.” Pitv is the poem only once rises to that
fine standard.... Hee K.: It runs off the topical line,
and never generates much speed.... Possum: If the
girl is real and not a mere phantom of the imagina-
tion, send her the poem direct. Hate to have a
heart bursting unseen in our columns or basket....
Norley: You begin your assault on “Cavalryman” for
his assertion- that, as a race, modern Australians
can’t ride, and need to be taught to on military
grounds, as follows : “I have no evidence to offer one
way or another about the capabilities of our trainees
who are resident within 100 miles of our cities.”
Since about 400 communications have arrived which
express similar sentiments to yours it may be as well
to mention that “Cavalryman” did not assail the
horsemanship of genuine bushies. His main points
were: that the latter are rare phenomena, owing
largely to the way the different State Governments
deliberately bloat their big- cities; that very few of
them are trainees owing to the five (not 100) mile
limitation; that the town-dwellers (who represent
about 90 per cent, of the trainees) are almost with-
out exception, unused to horses; and that it is the
duty of the State to teach them to ride, and not of
the C.O.’s who are voluntarily doing that important
job at present. . . .Viatvix: Have a kind of a sort of
a suspicion that he divorced his first wife for undue
brilliancy or insomnia or something. . . .R.S.L.: There
could be no harm in asking them if they are through
with the job. .. .R.McD.: Can’t advise you except
this far —don’t spend any more monev on any “cure”
until you have consulted a good medical man. Your
local doctor would name a specialist for y0u....
V. 0.: Yes, there’s hope. This paper is, in short,
bubbling over with hope. What it runs short of is
space. .. . A.L.H.: By no means, dear lady, do we
inflict it upon you. You can effectually save the
laceration of your feelings bv sticking to the S. M.
Herald .... Octopus: Don’t know; but if you will
give us the address, we will try to find 0ut....
Protection: Figures for N. S. Wales: —
Factories. Males. Females Wages.
1901 .. 3367 54,656 ' 11,674 £4,945,079
1911 . . 5039 82,123 26,541 10,051,161
And in Victoria:—
Factories. Males. Females Wages.
1902 . . 4003 49,658 23,405
1911 .. 5126 73,573 38,375 £8,911,019
It was not till 1903 that manufacturers in Victoria
were asked to state the wages actually paid. Figures
for that year were £4,573,795... .E. Casey: Arrived
after the Election ’bus had left this office; but it’s
good topical stuff. Let’s hear from you again....
L’aiglon: You haven’t sharpened your point....
V.L.G.: No use for slabs of history that have no
special bearing on current Australian problems....
J.D.K.Z.: Certainly The Bulletin has heard that
the affable Holman denied with indignation the
alleged report that he was receiving any special pay-
ment for his alleged services to N.S.W. in London.
And this paper never doubted his denial for a mo-
ment. In fact, it never heard or dreamt of such a
report. But there is another report that badly needs
contradiction, and that contradiction isn’t forthcom-
ing from any member of the N.S.W. Government.
If, say, Smith is strongly suspected of bigamy, and
his partner Brown hits the table like thunder and
declares in a voice broken by emotion that the non-
existent rumor that he (Brown) committed sacrilege
is wholly baseless —well, are we much further for-
ward?. .. .Concertina: Don’t think “The Rovin’ Life”
is good enough. Anyhow, the writing is a horrible,
horrible, most horrible strain on the eyes. And
what shall it profit a man if he accepts the worst
poem on earth and then goes blind, and buys a dog
to lead him round, and is fined for unpaid dog-tax?
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Penn and Inck: Yours is the 25th picture regard-
ing trusts that has come to hand within two 'days,
and it is a mighty bad 0ne....D.: The 26th picture
regarding trusts that has come to hand within two
days. Trusts represent a big question, but that ques-
tion isn’t the biggest by a long way. In fact, it is
a sort of mutual red herring drawn across > the track
to divert attention from problems which neither party
has the courage to face. .. .Long: Not worth space or
anything else... .Kilted: Old as the end of Eternity
turned backwards.... Bob Ellis: There are things we
might say about your pictures and jokes, but we
refrain for fear of waking a sick relative. .. .W.F.H.:
We have an artist of our own who specialises in
that kind of work, and we mention, with profound
apologies, that he does it better than you do., ..
Lindsay R.: A childlike variety of art.... W.0.G.:
Drink jokes that are nothing at all except drink
jokes, and have no separate existence, so to speak, or
side issues, as one might say, or miscellaneous fea-
tures, to put it that way, are a weariness. Also, they
are a tiredness and an exhaustedness and a goneness
in the knees, and a sinkingness at the pit of the
tummy... .T.C.: The dark mystery that hangs round
a long man and a short one asking a barmaid for
stout and bitters has cast a gloom over the entire
office. And the other picture increased the murki-
ness.... Roy C.: Subject not interesting. And you
should draw your picture at least six times the size
to allow for reduction. Also, use a less flabby
material.... Con S.: No use for your sketch of
Domain loafer surrounded by a boundless cloud of
flies... .M.0.T.: Vast naked figure with hair (or
spikes) on its legs and truculent countenance, de-
clined .... Murdock: As you ask for a criticism—•
well, the idea is poor, and the perspective is inferior,
and the anatomy isn’t up to very much F.A.:
Picture of person of no importance and anparently
much beer returned accordingly... .Bob H.: The dull-
est thing of the week... .H.M.A.: Stiff, wooden and
shapeless.... Mart: Sea serpent is off. We hate
large, coarse, live sausage. .. .A. O’H.: Our
honest view. Right. The drawing is crude,
and the ioke belongs to the Stone A.ge of
jocosity. Shouldn’t advise you to go in for
Art. The road is long and steep, and there is more
money in selling oysters.


The
XB
Of
THe
“Semelle’’ Non-Skid
is
Adapted for all climates,
and therefore univer-
sally efficient.
By far the most economical
tyre for bad roads, pro-
tecting the cover from
cuts, bursts and injuries
tbat would otherwise be
inevitable.
Complete, both in comfort
and security, because it
is a perfect non-s Kid.
N.B. —Remember it is essential not only to know the best non-skid,
but also to know how to preserve it when it is on your car. The
secret is to keep it always well inflated and frequently verify the
pressure with a Michelin Tyre Tester. To preserve the pliancy of
the leather band and to render it waterproof, use Michelin Skidcreme.
Michelin Tyres and Accessories
can be obtained from all the leading Garages.
ANZ. 8
I
EDUCATING THE HORSE.
NEW AND IMPROVED SYSTEM.
EDUCATING THE HORSE. SECRET OF HORSE TAMING.
THE WILD COLT. BREAKING TO HARNESS. How to throw
i the horse, pulling at halter, baulking, cribbing, kicking, runaway horses
how to cure, to teach tricks, to lie down, to sit up, to bow, to dance,
waltz, shake hands, to keep in health, and other secrets worth pounds
that will appeal to every horse loving Australian. Price only 1/7 post
free from ANGLO-AMERICAN PUBLISHING CO., Waterloo Chambers,
George Street, Sydney, N S. W.
//
Quick Work.
Now-a-days every profession
calls for quick work. We have
no time to waste —the world’s
motto is “ Get it done.”
Let the “Onoto” Safety Fountain Pen
help you to get through your work—
by making your writing easier and by
enabling you to write anywhere any-
time.
The “Onoto” pen holds enough ink
to write 20,000 words —and fills itself
in five seconds from any ink supply
without filler or mess. It runs easily
over paper —the ink-flow can be regula-
ted to suit style and speed of writer.
Cannot leak in the pocket however
it is carried.
Price 12/- and upwards at all stationers,
etc. Booklet about it free from
T. DE LA RUE & CO., Ltd .
Bunhill Row. E.C.
m
*
0
©
SELF-FILLING SAFETY
FOUNTAIN PEN
Fills itself in 3 Seconds
IV3OI
Waternian’s
Ideal)
Fount airiPen
A great Help, a great
Convenience and a great
Economy. Lasts a life-
time ; iridium-tipped gold
nibs to suit all
hands ; every Pen
Guaranteed.
In 4 type*—
Regular and Self-Filling, 12/6 and upwards ;
Safety and Pump-Filling, 15/- and upwards.
Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, LTD.,
Koh-i-noor House, London, England.
Australia —350, George Street, Sydney.
IDEAL
m
BARNET GIASS
1 WATERPROOF O'COATS
The“MAWSON”ModeI
Cut, modelled, and made
with as much care as a
high-priced suit. At all
Drapers and Storekeepers
1
B&DNET GIASS
Y/ATERPROOf GARMENTS
The “DENMAN" Model
Well-fitting, airy, free,
comfortable —a pleasure to
wear. Your Draper will
show you samples.
BARNET GLASS RUBBER CO. LTD,
Founders of the Rubber Industry in Australasia, [i
289=93 Swanston Street, Melbourne ; All States and N.Z.


Lady’* Solid Silver, Hunting
Keyless, LEVER WATCH, }
plate, full jewelled, patent ad-
justed balance, 25/- Higher
grade, 35/-, £2, £2/10/-,
£3/10/- Solid Gold, £3,
£3/10/-, £4, £5, £6.
251-
501 -
£5.
18ct. GOLD, set 5
pure, double-cut
Diamonds.
£6/10/-
18ct. GOLD, set •
Diamonds, 6 Ru-
bies, Sapphires or
Olivines.
20/-
9ct. GOLD, set Pearls and Rubies, Garnets or
Amethysts.
We Pay Postage
on all Jewellery
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting KEYLESS
LEVER, non-magnetic, full jewelled,
patent time spring, compensation balance,
dust-proof cases, SO/- Extra jewelled,
35/-, £2, £2/10 '-, £3, up to £lO.
Rolled Gold, 55/-, £4/4/-, £5/5/-
Solid Gold, £6/10/-, £7/10/- up.
30 1-
35/-
AUNDERS
Sydney’s leading jeweller *
NEW JEWELLERY DESIGNS.
CHOICE EXCLUSIVE LOW PRICED.
£22/10/-
15ct. GOLD, set Dia-
monds and Pearls.
£3/10/-
18ct. GOLD, set
Diamonds, Rubies
or Sapphires.
25/-
9ct. GOLD, set Pearls
and Amethysts.
fdh
15ct. COLD
NECKLACE, set
Diamonds and
Tourmalines,
£l5.
15ct. Gold NECK-
LACE, set Dia-
monds and Aqua-
marines, £l5.
20/-
9ct. GOLD, richly en-
graved ; 15'ct., 35 /-
m
m
35/-
Solid GOLD PRESENTA-
TION LINKS, hand-made,
richly engraved, any in-
itials. Extra quality,
50/-. 18ct. Gold, £3.
i rts
£2
£2/10/-
Solid Silver Patent Expanding LEVER WATCH BRACE-
LET, accurate, reliable. Solid Gold, £5, £5/10/-,
£6/10/-, £7/10/-
£lO/10/-
25ct. GOLD, set Dia-
monds and Kubies.
£lO.
18ct. GOLD, set 3
pure, double-cut
Diamonds.
25/-
9ct. GOLD, se t
Pearls and Ame-
thysts or Garents.
807-817 GEORGE STREET, OPP.0 PP . Railway Station, SYDNEY.
8/6
Lady’s Black, Open Face
KEYLESS WATCH,
strong, accurate, 8/6
Higher grade, 10/.'
15/-, 20/-, 25/- SO-
10/-
£l2/10/-
18ct. GOLD, set
pure, double-cut
Diamonds.
£lO.
18ct. GOLD, set
pure, double-cut
Diamonds.
22/6.
9ct. GOLD, set Pearls and Colored Stones,
or all Pearls.
We send our
Jewellery
Catalogue
FREE
Gent.’s Nickel Open Pace KEYLESS
LEVER, full jewelled, patent adjusted
balance, non-magnetic time spring, dust
and water proof cases, 15/- Higher
Grade, 25/-, 30/-. Solid Silver, £2.
151-
20|-
Football Champions Agree that
THose in
the Know
Always Drink.
Holsten.
THe
World’s
Best.
Is the Champion Drink for All Australians.


Government Notices.
Pine Creek to Katherine River Railway.
SEPARATE Tenders addressed to the
Secretary, Department of External
Affairs, Melbourne, will be received up to
11 a.m. on 19th August, 1913, as under:—
Supply and Delivery of 801 b. Steel
Rails and Fishplates.
Supply and Delivery of Sleepers—
(a) Steel; (6) Timber (Powellized).
Supply and Delivery of Iron Dog Spikes
and Steel Fishbolts and Nuts for
801 b. Rails.
Specifications, etc., will bo on view at
the following offices on and after 26th May,
1913: —Commonwealth Railways, 84 Wil-
liam Street, Melbourne; Commonwealth
Works Director, Customs House. Sydney;
and Commonwealth Works Registrars,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart, and
on and after 26th June at the office of the
High Commissioner, London.
The charge for each copy of Specification
will be £1 Is., and for each Plan 55., which
must be paid before the documents can be
issued.
Tenders should be endorsed “Tender
for ” (as the case may be), and
be accompanied by the deposit mentioned
in the Form of Tender.
JOSIAH THOMAS,
Minister of State for External Affairs.
Port Augusta to Oodnadatta Raiway.
SEPARATE Tenders addressed to the
Secretary,. Department of External
Affairs, Melbourne, will be received up to
11 a.m. on 24th June, 1913, as under:—
Manufacture, Supply and Delivery of
Bogie Goods Waggons, 3ft. 6in.
Gauge.
Manufacture, Supply and Delivery of
Water Tank Waggons, 3ft. 6in.
Gauge.
Specifications, Plans, etc., will be on view
at the following offices on and after 3rd June.
19J3: —Commonwealth Railways, 84 Wil-
liam Street, Melbourne; Commonwealth
Works Director, Customs House, Sydney:
and Commonwealth Works Registrars,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
The charge for each copy of Specification
will be £1 Is., and for each Plan 55., which
must be paid before the documents can be
issued.
Tenders are to be endorsed “Tender
for ...” (as the case may be), and
be accompanied by the deposit mentioned
in the Form of Tender.
JOSIAH THOMAS,
Minister of State for External Affairs.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, 26th May, 1913.
Tenders for Teak for Weather-decks of
H.M.A.S. Brisbane.
TENDERS will be received, subject to
the conditions of tendering, until
twelve noon on Monday, 30th JUNE, 1913,
for the supply of Teak for H.M.A.S. Bris-
bane.
The material is to be delivered f.o.b. at
the Commonwealth Dockyard, Cockatoo
Island, Sydney.
Tender form and specification can be ob-
tained from the Director of Navy Contracts.
Navy Office, Melbourne, or from the District
Naval Officer, Naval Staff Office, Sydney.
Brisbane, Largs Bay (S.A.), Fremantle or
Hobart.
Tenders should be endorsed “Tender for
Teak” on top left-hand corner of the en-
velope, and addressed (if by post, prepaid)
to the Director of Navy Contracts, Navy
Office, Melbourne, or to the Director of
Navy Contracts, care District Naval Officer,
Sydney, Brisbane, Largs Bay (S.A.), Fre :
mantle or Hobart, as the case may be.
The lowest or any tender will not neces-
sarily be accepted.
Tenders to be in all cases on the printed
form, which can be obtained as above.
FRANK G. TUDOR,
For Minister of State for Defence.
E o
THE HEAUT OF THE AUTOMOBILE—
Lmoos Schebler Carburetor
The best Carburetor for ALL PETROL ENGINES
—either Land or Marine, Stationary or Moving.
The Schebler makes your engine develop
greater horse power for a less consumption of
fuel. y
The Schebler holds many world’s records.
Booklet and all information free.
Correspondence invited.
ROBERT C. SWAN & CO. LTD.,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Sole Ae'ente for Australia.
[orient pocket stovl
3
Portable Comfort. Jap-
anese Hot-Box or Body
Warmer. A real luxury
in cold weather for inva-
lids, travellers and every-
one. No trouble, no dan-
ger, ready in one minute.
Carry it in pocket or muff
and you tee! warm all
over, or wben travelling place it between yonr feet and be
cosy and comfortable. Relieves bronchitis, neuralgia, colic,
&c. Warms a cold bed. Emits neither smoke nor smell.
Perfectly safe; cannot cause 6re. Made of hardened Copper
with cotton covering 1/6 and 2/6, velvet covering 3/6,
velvet covering in velvet satchet 4/6, complete with fuels.
Tailor-Made
Costumes
FOR WINTER.
Our Stock of
materials is
very compre-
hensive ; and
our T weeds
and Costume
Cloths are in
exclusive de-
signs. We in-
vite a visit of
inspection.
Our Cutter is Mr.
F. J. Murphy.
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
Tailors & Costumers,
76 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY.
v' I
]
♦
LKW
NOUOIOS
NOW 010 C
'• ■ * ■
The greatest remedy on earth for
strains and sprains—and many
other horse troubles.
I,arge Jars 5A obtai table from Chemists, Stores
and Saddlers every where. Post Free for 5/6
from
SOLOMON COX & SON,
439 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
i'wiih \ / with
'■'VAX
BIFFO,
MOUST-
ACHE
GROWER
Makes moustache grow
and trains it the way you
wish it to remain after
brushing Waxy appear-
ance avoided. Best for
warm weather. Price 5/6
post free Double size 7/9
Universal Supply Co , 460
George St, Sydney NS W
iiSCCS
■
n
m
m
“SMARTEST
AND BEST”
Read what a mother ha*
to »ay about
“ My Children have been singularly
free fr< m malaria and fever in India,
and I think they owe a lot to the
fact that they always wear s££22!r
—it combines light ties* with
warmth, *o d siruble in India,
where the temperature varies so
much as 15*or 20" between day and
night. . „
Mrs. ■■■ Simla, India.
Stockings and Socks are
ait pure wooi, absolutely unshrink-
able and as soft as silk. That is
•y.y
socks and Stockings are made
in all styles and weights for men,
Inldren. It your d' alcr does not
insist upon his getting them for
In case of difficulty write r*
JASON HOSIERY Co.,
Aa32 Lticester, England. 9
lau.es anil C
stuck them
LOUIS KAUFFMANN CIGARS
fdh
per 100
Imperials - 45/-
Idyllos - - 37/6
Diademas - 22/6
Gran Bouquets 20/6
Infantas - 17/6
Levucas - 15/6
Remit amount with
order and I a ill deliver
Cigars, all charges
paid, to any part of
Australia,, Money Re-
turned in Fui-l if
Buyer not satisfied
after smoking five or
six Cigars.
Illustrated descriptive booklet mailed to any address on appli*
cation. Only address
34 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE
CARBIDE.
For First-Class
Results use
Best
CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can lie obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole As nts for Australia.
Exclusive
Jewellery
we are showing in
large quantities*
Fine white whole
Pearl & Diamonds,
set in Platinum,
£l5/1 07-
Fine blue Sapphire
“and Diamonds, set
in Platinum,
£l2/10/-
Fine Pearl and 'i
Diamonds, set in
Platinum,
£6/6/-
Fine blue white
Diamonds, set in
Platinum,
£l5/10/-
Fine white Pearl
and Diamonds, set
in Platinum,
£25.
f%
r>
Fine blue Sapphire
and Diamond, set
in Platinum,
£l5.
Our Managing Director has lately returned from Europe, and has secured the very la.st word
in those exquisite, refined Jewellery Productions that captivate the exclusive sets of the Ola
World.
Platinum, worked like a spider’s web, or a piece of exquisite lace.
It is interesting just now to wander through our Showrooms, and see the Latest Production*,
and visitors are cordially invited.
Plain Figures
Cash.
Fairfax & Roberts, Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney, 23 &25 Hunter Street.
This 106 Watch for 3111.
We make this special offer as an advertisement for
CORN COB TOBACCO and RING OF ALL CIGARS
Order one of the following lots to-day.
Post Free to Anywhere in N.S.W. interstate.
Watch, 3/11, with 2oz. packet Corn Cob 6/3 5/5
Watch, 3/11, with Large Plug Corn Cob 5/9 6/11
Watch, 3/11, with lib. Plug or Cut, Light
or Dark, Corn Cob .. .. .. 9/11 10/4
GOOD ALBERT FOR Is. EXTRA.
KING OF ALL CIGARS.
WATCH, 3/11 and Sample Box of 10 6/5 6/7
Purchase of Watch Optional" with undermentioned:—
Box containing 50 King of All (Rothschilds
■ —Heavy Weights or Light Weights).... 9/6 9/10
Box containing 50 Buenos 15/9 16/1
Box containing 50 Clubs.. 20/- 20/4
As sample order, 1/- will purchase, post free, 4 King of
All (Rothschilds —Heavy Weights or Light Weights), or 3
Buenos.
*
C*Aia« /^itk£n
*
V
Craig & Aitken,
654 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
Established 30 Years.
For the Country Horseman
The saddle here illustrated is expressly designed
for country use, for stock riding, etc., and is built
of the best materials throughout. If any of our
friends are requiring such a saddle they will find
this a genuine bargain.
It has a hog-skin seat, a plated bar-tree, extra
long flaps, with points to buckle below. An economi-
cal feature is the skirt, which extends all round
and thus adds years of wear to the saddle by pro-
tecting its interior from the weather. It has a
deep, “sweepy” seat, 4in. kneepads, nickel-plated
iron stirrups, and double buckle leather girth. The
price complete is £ 3/15/- Mention of Tub
Bulletin when ordering will ensure your having a
leather surcingle given in free, and the saddle will
be forwarded freight paid. It is to be obtained
from J. P, Talty, 388 Sussex Str et, Sydney.
fd
The
Tod Sloan
Racing Saddle.
The picked favorite in all the Training
and Racing Stables throughout the Com-
monwealth. Those who are using Uhl’s
“Tod Sloan” cannot speak too highly.
Made from properly prepared Leather
well finished, mounted with Girth, Sur- :
cingle, Leathers and Irons.
Write and ORDER yours NOW —be
sure and give weight—the saddle can be
built to any weight required.
A QUAL.
£5 10s.
B QUAL.
£5.
L. UHL & SONS, Ltd.,
Makers of Good Saddles,
Petrie Bight, BRISBANE.
Health follows the
regular use of
Montserrat
Lime Juice
Sauce
Of all Storekeepers
It makes
.you enjoy
your food.
Kegtstered
NOTE THE SLOT
The Best Tooth Powder
in The Best Container
|ewsbury&Browns
lH Oriental
Sooth Powder
6
in the
United Kingdom
All the Family may
use the same box.
WHOLESALE AGENTS IN SYDNEY
Messrs. Elliort Bros. Ltd.
» . F.H Faulding & Co.


The London Bank of Australia, Limited.
Authorised Capital
Subscribed Capital
Paid-up
Uncalled, including- Reserve Liability
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits
. . £2,886,067 10 0
1,276,747 10 0
548,392 10 0
728.355 0 0
225,541 6 2
BOARD OP DIRECTORS.
DAVID FINLAYSON, Esq., Chairman.
ROBERT JAMES BLACK, Esq.
GORDON lIUNTLY CAMPBELL, Esq.
ANDREW CUNNINGHAM, Esq.
Hon. Sir Arthur LAWLEY firs.
EDWARD VINCENT REID eT
GEORGE SLADE, Esq ’
DIRECTORS’ REPORT,
Presented at the Ordinary General Meeting of Proprietors, held at Winchester House, Old Broad Street, E.C.JHaII No. 174), at 12 o’clock noon, on Wednesday, 30th April im,
31st Decembeflalt PreSent ReP ° rt ’ accom ' ,anied - a * usual, by Audited Accounts for the year ended
The Profit, as shown by the Annual Statement, after dedtfeting management charges
al! taxes, including the Federal Land Tax and State ZSat llnd Tax*!!
and
amount to
To which is added the amount brought forward . . .
... . making together
After providing for
Interest at 4J% on Transferable Deposit Receipts for the year
Transfer to Reserve Fund
Bonus of 10% to the Staff
. . £112,719 10 9
. . 25,042 11 11
. £137,762 2 8
£20,720 16 6
60,000 0 0
5,500 0 0
there remains a balance to be dealt with of
Which the Directors recommend be appropriated as follows
Dividend of 7% on the Preference Shares for the year ended 31st
December, 1912 .. .. .. .. .. .. ..£l2 035 2 0
Dividend of 5% on the Ordinary Shares for the same period .. isUl3 12 6
82,220 16 0
£55,541 6 2
30,448 14 6
leaving a balance to be carried forward to next account of ..
£25,092 11 8
The season continued dry during’ the first half of last year, resulting in loss of stock and con
some reduction in wool shorn, but fortunately the advance in the price of wool will, to a mater ,S *|
make up for the shortage in quantity. The grain harvest was a good one. So far owing to foi l extent ’
autumn rains, the pastoral and agricultural outlook for the winter is on the whole favorable** "t’ 001 '
continued very active, but in common with the rest of the world, Australia has experienced at' >,t
money market, and it has become necessary to impose restrictions in various directions to chect ten ' ng
expansion, but the trade position is believed to be sound. eck undue
It is with deep regret that the Directors have to announce the death of their esteemed
late Mr. David Quixano Henriques, and the Rt. Hon. Lord Ilkeston, P.C. ues the
Under the provisions of the Bank’s Articles of Association, the vacancies thus caused on th n
have been filled by the appointment of Mr. Robert James Black, and the Honorable Sir Arthur I’l°*
G.C.S.I. The Director retiring under the provisions of the Bank’s Articles of Association is Mr e - v >
Slade, who, being eligible, offers himself for re-election. ' ' l,eor Se
The Bank’s Auditors, Messrs. Price, Waterhor.se & Co., retire, and again offer themselves for re el r
Following the meeting ; of shareholders, a meeting of transferable deposit receipt holders will hi, 11 ;
at 12.20 p.m., at which Mr. Andrew Cunningham, and Mr. Gordon Huntly Campbell the vet ’
Depositors’ Directors, will offer themselves for re-election. ’’ letlr,n !>
The transfer books are closed from 15th April to 30th April, both days inclusive. Warrant'
dividends, less income tax, will be issued, payable on and after 2nd May next, to those sharoheiai.. _. t for
names appear on the register on the 15th instant.
By order of the Board,
71 Old Broad Street,
London, E.C., 17th April, 1913.
W. H. BARBER,
London Manager and Secretary.
BALANCE-SHEET, 31st DECEMBER, 1912.
Authorised Capital;—
61,603 Ordinary Shares of £22/10/-
150,000 Preference Shares of £lO
LIABILITIES.
• ’ . . . . £1,386,067 10 0
~ 1,500,000 0 0
Subscribed Capita: £2,886,067 10
49,103 Ordinary Shares ot £22/10 .. £1,104,817 10 0
Uncalled and Reserve Liability ... .. 736,540 0 0
£368,272 10 0
Amount prepaid by Trustees in respect of
Uncalled Capital and Reserve Liability .. 8,190 0 0
„ X- £376,462 10 0
17,193 Preference Shares of £lO, fully paid'-. . 171,930 0 0
Capital Paid-up
Reserve Fund .... .
Balance of undivided Profit
548,392 10
170,000 0
55,541 6
0
0
2
Transferable Deposit Receipts due 1917
Deposits and Current Accounts
Bills Payable and other Liabilities (including’ reserves for doubtful debts)
Notes in Circulation (secured as per contra)
£773,933 16
589,445 19
4,982,307 6
1,032,043 2
11,208 10
2
4
4
2
0
£7,388,938 14 0
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion, Cash Balances, Government Notes, and Notes of
other Banks .. . .. .. ..
Money at Call and Short Notice in London .. . . ■ ..
Investments and Bills Receivable on hand and in trans't
Investments held by Trustees against Notes in Circulation ..
Bills Discounted, Advances and other Assets . .
Bank Premises
£1,194,569 17 2
70,000 0 0
1,101,573 5 8
13,500 0 0
' £2,442,643 2 10
4,554,301 11 2
391,994 0 0
£7,388,938 14 C
STATEMENT OF PROFITS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31st DECEMBER, 1912.
Balance of undivided Profit, as per last Report .., .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. •• •• .. .. £55,483 1-5
Less: Dividend for the year ended 31st December, 1911 .’. .. .. .. .. .. •• •• 30,440 9 6
. * ' £25,042 <1 11
Profit in London and in Australia, after providing for Interest due and accrued on Current Deposits,
deducting Rebate on Bills, and making provision for bad and doubtful debts .. .. .... .. .. £217,368 9 7
Less : Salaries and General Expenses in Australia—including remuneration to Local Directors, Rent,
Rates, Repairs, Stationery, Travelling, etc. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £82,838 2 2
Salaries and General Expenses in London—including Directors’ and Auditors’ Fees, Rent, Repairs,
Stationery, Telegrams, etc. .. .. .. .. - .. • .. .. .. . . 12,018 611
Land Tax, Income Tax, and Tax on Note Issue .. .. .. ■ .. .. .. 9,792 9 9
. £104,648 18 10
112,719 10 9
£137 762 2 8
Deduct: Interest at i\% on Transferable Deposit Receipts .. .. .. .. .. •• .. £26,720 16 6
Transfer to Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. .. . . .. . . . . • • • • . . 50,000 0 0
Bonus of 10% to the Staff .. .. .. . i .. .. .... . . . . . . . . 5,500 0 0
B2 220 16 6
Balance of undivided Profit, as above .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £55,541 6 2
AUDITORS’ RETORT.
We certify that we have obtained all the informa-
tion and explanations we have required. We have
to report that we have examined the above balance-
sheet with the books at the Head Office and the re-
turns from the Branches, and in our opinion it is
properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct
view of the state of the Bank’s affairs, according to
the best of our information and the explanations
given to us, and as shown by such books and returns.
PRICE, 'WATERHOUSE & CO., Auditors.
London, April 11, 1913.
D. FINLAYSON,
R. J. BLACK,
GORDON H. CAMPBELL,
Directors.
W. H. BARBOUR, London Manager and Secretary.
GOOD AS SOVEREIGNS.
MARSHALL’S STEAM ENGINES are the equivalent to English or
Colonial Sovereigns in any part of the World, i.e.,
they always represent Twenty Shillings for £l.
If, for any reason, you wish to sell a MARSHALL Engine, you can
always obtain full market value, but if you are a wise man
you will NEVER SELL the “MARSHALL”
when it is capable of earning 50
per cent, more than the price
originally paid for same; and, as
a consequence, is
“A GILT EDGED
INVESTMENT."
Light and Heavy Pattern
TRACTIONS.
Vertical and Colonial Type
BOILERS.
PORTABLES, 2 to 40 H.P.
JL
OIL TRACTORS, Horizontal and Vertical STATIONARY ENGINES.
Write for Catalogues and Particulars of our Easy Terms.
BIG CHIEF OIL ENGINES.
The cheapest and
most reliable Oil
Engine ever offered
to the New South
Wales public.
Make a point of
inspecting the “Big
Chief” before defin-
itely placing your
order elsewhere.
Specially manufac-
tured to our specifi-
cation. Equipment
includes Wizard
m
Magneto, Extended
Crankshaft, Regular
Pulley. Uses either
Kerosene or Benzine
as Fuel. All sizes,
to 12 H.P. Best
value in the world.
Liberal discount i
for cash. Exception-
ally easy terms.
Catalogue Free. Do
not delay. Write for
particulars.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO. Limited
161 Clarence Street, Sydney.
LOOK FOR
THIS MARK!
Bwr
TRADE MARKS
B.S.A.
LOOK FOR
THIS MARK!
Warning to Cyclists.
When ordering your new bicycle built of
B.S.A. FITTINGS
insist on seevng the B.S.A. mark—the three piled rifles
and letters B.S.A. as illustrated, stamped on
EVERY PART.
This mark is your guarantee, its presence means that
you secure the same quality material and workmanship
which has made B S.A. productions famous the world
over. Therefore, you are certain of long and reliable
service. As a protection against inferior imitations
being substituted, the three piled rifles and letters B.S.A.
should be carefully observed, not on one or ..two parts
only, but on every part, as follows:
STEERING HEAD, CRANK BRACKET. SEAT PILLAR
LUG, BACK FORK ENDS, BACK FORK BRIDGE,
BACK STAY BRIDGE, HUBS, CRANKS. PEDALS,
Catalogue* and Full Particulars of all B.S.A. Goods can be
obtained from
D. Y. RENNIE, representing
The Birmingham Small Arms Co. Ltd.,
4, Australian Buildings, Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub. Free Wheel
on both gears, Back-pedalling and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop Tyres. As
ridden by FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
ANTHONY HORPCRN <&, SONS LTP-,
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium.
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.


■'l,ll
m
j,
11 !hi
/ h'l
ft
m
"l
The “Iwan” is a success
because it’s built right.
Notice it. Perfectly bal-
anced and no parts to
wobble.
“IWAN-IZE” Your Fencing!
No man wants to rack his good back
and arms with old-fashioned crowbar-
and-spade methods of fencing. The
“IWAN” Post Hole Digger not
only sinks the hole in -one-third of the
time taken with other tools, but it
makes the hole just right for the post,
which, of course, means little ramming
and a firrper fence. You know that
digging the old way you had to make
a hole twice as wide as the post, so as
to get the depth. You can bore for
water down to 35 feet with the
“Iwan,” by fitting extra lengths of
pipe. Splendid for planting young
trees, too. Be fencing wise and
“IWAN”-IZE. The cost is small,
and the benefits big. 10-inch is the
usual fencing size. Here are the
sizes:—
For 3in. 4in. Sin. 6in. 7in. Sin. 9in. lOin. 12in. Win. posts.
7/- 'll- 7/- 7/- 7/6 8/6 9/6 10/- 27/- 34/- each.
£J^RKersoff|)
Tool Merchants—Established over 50 Years,
554-56 ft & 582-88 Collins St. f Melbourne.
ALLDAYS
AND ONIONS
Pneumatic
Power
Hammers.
I
\
X
More efficient, more
economical and much
quicker than the old-
fashioned steam hammer.
No steam boiler required
—just connect by belt to
your driving shaft. No
power consumed when
idle. This hammer is
capable of drawing down
ll'm. diameter steel bars
to 2in. x lin. x
long at one heat.
Carried in
Stock by
scwt Belt-driven Pneumatic Hammer.
BENSON BROTHERS
(Sole Agents for
Australia)!
We Stock All Classes of Engineers' Machine Tools,
51-53 Druitt Street,
SYDNEY.
60 Queen Street,
MELBOURNE.
r
A Wonderful Moustache Producer
CAPILLARINE.
You may have only the slightest showing of down on your lip. yet
Capillarine will quickly bring to perfection a moustache you 11 be
\ r °littl°e f 'rubbed on with the tips of the fingers at night will do this
for you. Has never failed during past 30 years.
_ . tn/c un d.-, r..„„ The C. &A. Moustache Trainer, worn at night,
PriCC 10 6 JAR, Post tree* shapes the moustache. 2/6, 3/6, 5/6, Post hree.
CRAIG &AITKEN
664- George Street, Sydney.
Established 30 Years.
3
ft
T*
m
.BUMYIP neauss
One man saved the price of his Bunyip Tree and Stump Puller in clearing
6 acres of land. This is a common experience with every 44 Bunyip ” ovyner.
The 44 Bunyip ” is the most effective, safe and economical Puller on the
market to-day; one man can easily work it. We have sold hundreds in Australia.
We ship the 44 Bunyip ” as far afield as Russia.
Write for the fullest particulars.
Ask also about the Speedie Patent Rabbit Trap—lo/6 complete.
John Cooper vSons,
“For all Farming Ironmongery,**
287-289 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE
FREE
hfd
and
o
.
o
Treatise
This contains no fewer than 72
different models fully detailed, and ex-
plains the workings, Government tests,
Velocities, etc., and shows in actual size the
various cartridges used, from the baby .22 to the
Giant .4>5. It illustrates and describes Revolvers from
13/6 to £lO, and Automatic Pistols from 25/- to £7/10/-
It is by far the most complete list ever issued in the Southern
Hemisphere, and we will send you a copy POST FREE, if you men-
tion this paper.
Special items: “BROWNING,” the world’s most famous pistol for Civilians, Police
and Military. “COLTS” special Revolvers, for Pioneers, shooting ordinary Winchester
rifle cartridges, .32, .38, .44 calibres.
Get your copy early, they’re going out fast.
ALCOCK & PIERCE,
Gun and Cartridge
Makers,
318 LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
P.S. —Some of our rifles are mentioned in another part of this paper.
If/
& THE
TOP-NOTCH
OF SCOTCH
(“TfiMjS&mj&lY"
When dispensing hospitality, rely on “King George IV.”
Friends will come in “threes’’ and “fours” and make
“a full house,” because it is a “straight” beverage in
every sense, and although there’s “not a headache
in a gallon,” its genial stimulus may sometimes
bring a “royal flush.”
George IV” is “top notch” in all the
essentials of a high grade whisky—
fine bouquet rounded
mellowness and
perfect purity.
m
1
*
¥
SB/
\ N Ji Vlf
m
m
m .. -
js?
r #
H
~ vAXSI- v v
t' ■spy!'
h 4|fv
ors>;
o:wv y
v v ;
v v
V/ v
V v
HSe
V X
V v
A TOP-NOTCH
HAND
§
»
DINNEFORD'Sj
Magnesia
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see that
“Dlnneford &Co.”
is on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
EE33BH
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.


HORSESHOE
SALMON
Every experienced housewife knows the possibilities
of Horseshoe Salmon. She knows
that the firm, red fish can be quickly and appetisingly
prepared in numberless ways. She knows that it
possesses the flavor and value of the fresh Salmon,
and meets the catering emergency in the readiest
and best way.
It Has the Flavor that Spurs the Appetite.
THE “NEW YORK.”
Raw edge. Patent grease-proof leather.
Bnm, 3 inches wide (curled). Grey,
Biscuit, Otter. ‘ ’
SHILLINGS MORE IN PRICE—RUT
POUNDS MORE IN QUALITY, Ask
the man that wears one jZ
Stetson
Hats
Let us help you to pick out jour new Stetson. As
a Stetson wearer you are one of a goodly company
the “personable” meti who set the styles wherever
they happen to live. We show the most popular
Stetson shape in our picture.
Send for Issue 4 —Commonwealth Catalogue. K
deals with everything for the wear or use of man.
Post free on request.
PIKE BKOTHEIRS, LTD.,
**Smsbane.
IN
BANANA LAND
Typhoid is raging in Winton, and the
Health authorities have compelled the
Chinese baker and sundry other purveyors to
close their premises for a while. It re-
quired an epidemic to tear a West Queens-
land “Labor” town away from its beloved
Chow food-merchants.
The inter-State Licensed Victuallers’ Con-
ference, held this year in Brisbane, admitted
mournfully that the movement to abolish
counter lunches had failed. “The counter
lu DC V’ s , ays the annual report, “attracts to
the hotel the very worst class of hotel-
loafers, and keeps away the very people
hotel-keepers seek to cater for. The free
lunch is a blot on the business sagacity of
the hotelkeeper. Evidently Han who dosses
in the Domain is a bigger power than most
people imagine; he can compel Bung to give
him a free lunch daily, even though respect-
able, white-waistcoated citizens are therebv
scared off the premises.
That part of the public which dearly
loves to see soiled linen fished out for the
wash-tub got some interesting reading when
I arson Porter, of Biggendon, flew at the
legal neck of one Baulcli, the local publican
The liquor fight was the trouble at first; but.
later, the injudicious beer-puller got on to
topics which have silverfished a hole in his
bank account to the extent of £lOOO. The
case put up two records for Bananaland.
firstly, £lOOO is the largest amount ever
awarded to a defamed plaintiffsecondlv
and lastly, dear brethren, it is the first time
that the full amount claimed in the writ has
been allowed by the jury.
“Gouger”: A firm believer in keeping out
of the wet, if possible, is the Peninsular
nigger. If he is travelling a long way from
the camp during the rainy season, and night
comes on. Binghi rings a suitable tree and
strips it of its bark. When ne”-’"
stripped the bark is plastic, and curls
round into the shape of a hollow
log. Our black neighbor then picks a high
place where the rain-water runs away
quicklv, and coiling himself into the
cubicle, sleeps as soundly and dry as
if he were at Menzies or the Australia.
In case of a benjamin (husband) -a oigger
tree is stripped, and into this crawl nigger
And gin, with maybe a piccaninny in be-
Needless to say, if another wet
is in. store, the obedient wife carries
fne connubial arrangement along on her
back.
Mt. Larcom, which tilts its snub nose to
the south of Rockhampton (Q.), is a good
example of what closer settlement can do.
Up to the final tick of 1911, dense scrub
sat on the land thereabouts. Then an old
prospector, 76 years of age, cut a six-mile
road into the heart of the native vegetables,
and selected the first mining homestead of
80 acres. To-day there are 210 settlers,
holding among them 21,000 acres, and at
the local shows . thereabouts the residents
have been _ exhibiting sugarcane 9ft. long
and pumpkins larger than rhinoceroses.
Henry Mills, who stepped over the border
the other day in the land of the suffragette,
was connected with Australia’s coastal ship-
piD S MJf a century ago. He was born back
in 18J7, and came, in 1853 to Australia,
where he managed for the A.S.N. Co. at
Sydney and afterwards opened up the trade
tor the co. at Rockhampton. Later on
Charles Nicholson gave him the job of
choosing a sylvan spot for a meat factory
on-the banks of the Fitzroy River. Works
were built in 1870 on the site he selected,
the contractor being John Ferguson, who
afterwards became a Mount Morganaire.
Those works to-day are the headquarters of
the C.Q.M.E., generally known as' Lake’s
Creek.
THE KID WARRIOR.
The Guardian, the Church of England weekly, in an article on Britain's lack of military prepared-
ness, says that, while sparsely-peopled Australia has established a national service, England has
THE PASTOR: “There you are! That's a noble example for you!"
JOHN BULL: “Dear me, was it a recruiting officer who said 'Suffer little children to
come unto me ’?”
Commissioner Evans is rather pleased
with the buffet car which he tried on the
Central line beyond Emerald. A hungrj-
man can now sit .at ease and feast freely
and watch the telegraph poles whiz by at
15 miles per hour. Which is an improve-
ment on the old-fashioned gallop at the
wayside station, where one got into holts
with a boiling-hot dinner, with one eye on
the corned beef and the other on the time-
keeper, or' fought for his breakfast at
Bogan tungan, like St. Paul, as mentioned in
the New Testament, doing battle with a wild
sandwich in the Colisseum at Ephesus.
B a n a nal a nd is to have another buffet car,
and the Charleville railway will have the
benefit of it.
A tragedy of the new Licensing Law :
Human endurance has its limits. An earnest and
perhaps thirsty, constable in Brisbane, the other’ day
chanced upon a youth about to take the top off a
under , fhe ‘ J -• H °p was sure the youth was
imder the statutoiv age, so he took the beer. The
youth remonstrated. His brother blew along from
Knowhere, and brother and youth remonstrated.
The father happened from the same place,
and father, brother and youth remorfstrated. The
Law was not to be dissuaded. To him, or it (as the
case may be) was the beer. Threats and language
were of no ava l. The Law stuck to the beer. Thfy
were thinking of sending for another brother, when a
terrible thing happened. The youth made a grab
and the bottle fell to the ground -with a sickening
smash and the dust drank the contents. That was
the last straw. The family with one foot and one
hand smote the Law hip, trousers and iaw, and left
it weltering in the beer.
For seven weeks a deadly beer-drought has
raged in Howard, owing to a strike of
drinkers against a rise in the price of the
tankard. Fearful privations were under-
gone by some of the coal-town’s most re-
spected citizens, and but for the “ratting”
of one licensee, who reverted to the old
prices, Howard would have been torn to
shreds by a revolution. It is proposed to
erect a statue to the renegade Bung.
The thumb-print expert is taking the place
of honor that the hand-writing expert had
for a while in the courts; and if his col-
lapse is as complete, it will be a very
squashy collapse, indeed. The last instance
of the squashiness happened in Brisbane a
few days ago, when a writing expert de-
posed in the Supreme Court that the “fist”
of defendant, as per samples produced, was
exactly similar to the writing in a forged
document. Hereupon the Judge handed
over another specimen, which the expert,
after close. inspection, declared to be also
identical with the handwriting of aforesaid
defendant. This second specimen had been
written by the complainant in the case.
The Court laughed uproariously, the Judge
directed the jury to acquit, and a flattened
expert retired to ponder on the vanity of
earthly things.
O’Suliivan, just dead, spent
oU ol his S 5 years in the savage climate of
Hananaland, where he managed Mount
Stanley station and others, and kept the
troublesome blacks at arm’s length by kind-
ness, etc., in the old days. O’Sullivan had
something of a reputation as a Tenderer of
hrst aid in these pre-historic times, and his
services were once requisitioned by a station
a mere 60 miles off. Sixty miles? Nothing!
He mounted his nag and rode over as if he
were simply doing the Block.
“McNorth”: I rise in my wrath to pro-
C i. aim „ tha l mo * t tke talk about the “hard-
ships suffered by the white man in Papua
is bosh. . The white man in Papua has a
comparatively good time, and, beyond an
occasional dose of fever, doesn’t hardship
worth tuppence. He has niggers to boil his
billy, wash his clothes, carry his swag, cut
his tobacco and perform many other duties
he wouid have to do himself in Australia.
When travelling, he can nearly always have
a roof over his head, and vegetable food is
n ? ore , Plentiful than in most Outback
places in Australia. About the only hard-
s lip is that he has to walk, as the country
is not suited to horses. The trouble is that
after a few years he can’t do anything with-
n, t 0 h / lp him - How much
IIS ] le than - (say) the prospector
in,. ? aDd ’ stee , nn g his . lonely course
0 °fi.d he f V£ f St - S ? l,tud ? s ’ where ther e are
«or hordes of friendly niters to bring him
food and show him where the* water is V
At Emerald (Central Bananaland) the
other day one of the horsewomen at the local
show r was a spruce young lady of seventy-
three. Something will really have to be
done about this enervating climate.
Newspaper comment on the physical fit-
of John Sheurs, the first settler on Mount
Cotton, who came to Queensland years
ago : “Ninety-two years of strenuous life,
during which he has had to bear the hard-
ships of pioneering, do not appear to have
cripoled him, for he appears as active as a
man of 40.” That infernal climate again!
“P.F.” : The savage in lovely woman is but
thinly concealed. In an Ipswich police
court recently, a witness deposed that the
other woman “picked up a brick and stood
over her and threatened to blow her brains
out.” When the P.M. inquired if it were
usual “for one woman to bash another
woman’s brains out with a brick?” the audi-
ienee, “nearly all women, clapped their hands
in applause.” To such a pass has 30 years
of Wowserism brought the most godly town
in Queensland !
From a Northern sinner:—
The Moderator of the Q. Presbyterian Assembly told
recently with holy horror a tale of a West Queensland
town “where the Anglican minister, after his Sunday-
school was out, and while the Presbyterian Sunday-
school was going on, used to play cricket with his
boys.” To the disgust of the Moderator, the earth
did not open up and swallow this genial Anglican
parson, neither did his B shop or his beadle excom-
municate him. The Moderator wound up his address
by earnestly inquiring: “Will the day ever come
when we will get a law that will sav : the people
must keep holy the Sabbath ?” His Right Reverence
(or whatever it is) forgets that the day has come--
and gone. It came, for instance, in Connecticut when
the Blue Law decided that man should not kiss his
wife on the Sabbath. It went when the people began
to realise that it really wasn't necessary to be.miser-
able in order to be decent— or even holy.
By Faith, not Drugs.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At the inquest into the death of , the
father deposed his daughter had been ill about a
month, but had no doctor. He did not believe in doc-
tors or medicine. The Bible had been their doctor,
and the medicine was prescribed in James, Chap. V.,
verses 15-16. —Brisbane press report.
When Jane our eldest took on scarlatina
We troubled no M.D.;
Enough to know,our faith was strong to save
And potent o’Cr the flCsh, the wolm, the
grave,
And Heav’n would grant whatever boon
w r e’d crave—
(James —chapter viii. and 3.)
When Lisa pined beneath a deadly sickness
And fell in swift decline,
We did not fuss re Friedmann’s innovation,
In boluses we did not seek salvation,
We simply turned ofi every dark occasion
To Jonah iv. and 9.
When Tom was thrown at Dingo Gully
races,
' And dinged his hapless pate,
In place of seeking medical assistance
We simply raised a prayer as pious
Christians
And sent a hymn a-pealing thro’ the dis-
tance —•
(See Nahum v. and 8.)
And on the day when baby took convulsions
And neighbors fain had run
For help, we pondered on the dire damna-
tions
And punishments with all their variations
In grim Leviticus and Revelations
(Read on from Chapter One.)
And though our dear ones drooped beneath
the treatment
We made no-, more ado,
lor one great comfort still at least remained
us,
Whene’er our earthly losses grieved and
pained us,
From carnal drugs and draughts we had
restrained us
(Corinthians vii. and 2.)
QUEENSLAND.
FAITH-HEALER.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP
Brisbane, May 31, 1913
My- Dear Tiiahgumindah,—
A browned Excellency and a very healthv
looking aide have returned from a tour wf IP
north and west of this State. The
next strenuous job will be the opening P
liament on June 17, when he will reoitk
statesmanlike piece composed by Dighv T) a
ham, produce seller and politician. en ‘
The old Perkins home on North Ouav u-
opened to-day as a hostel for women tLfJT
the new Mater Hospital was built this I.mUh
ing was taken over by the Sisters, and Zi
as a temporary hospital. Now it will
known as the Loretto Home, and women
workers and students will find it a great oW
venience. It has been altered, refurnished'
and redecorated. The Macgregor and hi
lady were at the opening corroboree or social
howl.
After leaving the new institution their
Exes., accompanied by the Vision (clad in
black under a plumed hat), moved on r
Bishopsbourne, and joined the multi hum
which was being fed by the bachelor w
with the usual delicacies of the prosperous
churchman. These do not include loaves and
fishes. Imagine, my dear, what would hau
pen if one of our stout, Exclusive dames were
offered a handful of cold sardines from a com
mon bucket on the cold, cold ground in Pales
tine ! On second thoughts, perhaos you had
better not try to imagine anything so vulgar
On Wednesday afternoon Mrs. Charlie
Mant and Mrs. Duckett White opened the
afternoon nose-bag to a mob of their pals in
honor of the marriage of their pretty sister
Mina Macdonald, to one of the Crombies’
next Wednesday. It was a thoroughly pleas-
ant feed.
This marriage will be one of four fashion-
able weddings to take place on the same day
so if the parsons’ union is meditating a strike
the time is never likely to be riper.
Mrs. Hall and Mrs. Scougall gave a fare-
well croquet party on Thursday afternoon in
honor of Mr. and Mrs. W. Graham, who
are leaving for Melbourne early next month.
Four people tied for the fourth prize, which
went to Miss Benjamin after a run-off.
Miss Birdsey, of Adelaide, is staying with
Aunt Digby Denham. Other Southern visi-
tors are the Coldhams (mother and daughter)
of Melbourne, who are tucked away in a cor-
ner of the Cecil Palmer menage. Mrs. Eric
Middleton, of Sydney (once Brenda Macal-
ister), a clever amateur dancer, is here in
search of the alleged winter.
A. H. Whittingham, M.L.C., the western
squatter who is to marry Miss Taylor, of
the rich Lumley Hill clan, is still in the thick
of congratulations; and his woolly friends
are snatching odd opportunties to present
him with good wishes and metal-ware. The
Blackall Club cornered him the other day,
and the Pastoralist Association, of which the
bridegroom-of-some-dav-soon is the president,
acted handsomely in the same way. A
couple of years back another of the" Whit-
tinghams bought a wedding ring for Miss
Dalzell, a granddaughter of Morganaire Fer-
guson, of former days. It was a ceremony
of some tonnage, too.
May you always be as useful as you are
beautiful.
AUSTRALIA JANE.


1
MS
SHB
•-
KK
(ONTIIt
■ 111
TYRES
FOR LONG WEAR.
■and 'durability;:-
NraL
THE m -*
highest
PERFECTION
OF
WORKMANSHIP


Shipping.
Prn and Om BRANCH SERVICE.
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Via MELBOURNE and ADELAIDE.
GEELONG .. ~| 80'ToiBidwell . . .jJune,ls
BENALLA .. . .411,12- ijSiinmbnds .. .. !JUne2S
BELTANA .. .. 111,1 eoiLingham .. .. ijulv 19
Wireless insialled.
PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION AMIDSHIPS.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
LONDON £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l7 17s.
Tickets for return, via Suez (second-class), P. and
0. Mail, from £49 19s. to £53 11s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St
Melbourne: John Sanderson & Co., 11l William St.
Adelaide and Fremantle Agents: Geo. Wills & Co.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
ORAMA ..Triple-Screw., 13,000 Regd. Tons.
ORVIETO ..Twin-Screw .. 12,130 „
OSTERLEY „ „ .. 12.129 ~
OTRANTO 12,124 ~
OTWAY 12,077 „
ORSOVA .. 12,036 „
ORONTES .. 9,023 „
OMRAH .. 8,282 „
OPIIIR „ „ .. 6,814 „
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamers. Cal>ines-de-luxe: Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing everv fortnight from BRISBANE. SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Pi,ace. Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, Jkc.
§M
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Head Office: 11 Moore Street, Sydney.
(Guaranteed by the State Government).
Has Now No Connection
with the Post Offices.
The Bank has 116 Branches and
500 Agencies throughout the State.
DEPOSITS received from 1/- to £5OO.
INTEREST —from £1 to £3OO,
and 3% on the excess up to £5OO.
J. 11. DAVIES, Secretary.
of Dorth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE,
.1. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George mid Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Eocnl Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, I’hilp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. It. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK, LTD.
BRANCHES-throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
THE
Australian gank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,534
PAID-UP (31st December, 1912).. £1,195 274
RESERVE FUND £15,000
HEAD OFFICE —George and King Streets, Sydney
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C,
DIRECTORS — Sir William P. Manning, lit., Chair-
man; Georgr J. Si.v, Esq., LL.D. ; Ciias. H.
Myles, Esq.; Mark Sheldon, Esq.; Arthur S.
Barton, Esq; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout tile Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world!
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30. 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £SOO.OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,590 14 6
Reserve ... .. 130,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091.669 4 -5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since 1893 specially prelected.
Directors.—.Tas. Munro, Esq. (Chairman).; John
Cameron, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. ; Geo. Edw. Biimmig
Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON *-
INTEREST ALLOWED ON FIXED DEPOSITS.—
12 months, at the rate of 4 per cent, per annum ; -2
vears and over, at the rate of 41 per cent, per annum
HEAD OFFICE - - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland,
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the Ea3t.
The Colonial [Qutual Qife
assurance society LIMITED
FOR '7
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Ai nuities without Mutual LiniwStv;. also
Accident, Sickness and Industria^ftSsu
Hf.ad Office: fg.
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,358.229.
Amounts paid to. Policyholders exceed £5,60.9.000.
Policies Unconditional. Unchallengeable, Indefeasible,
premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Burnt). K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretary.
N.D.U.
NORDDEUTSCHER-LLOYD
MAIL STEAMERS
To Colombo, Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, G.braltar, London, Antwerp and
Bremen.
All steamers fitted with “Wireless” Installation.
All steamers fitted with Laundry.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE from Sydney
and Brisbane, via German New Guinea, Yap,
Angaur or Maron. Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to—
LOHMANN & CO.. General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney ;
OSTERMKYER, VAN ROMPAEY k Co., Melbourne;
H. MUECKE k CO., Adelaide :
1 L. R ATAZZI A CO.. Perth and Fremantle:
j lIIOS. BROWN & SONS. Ltd.. Brisbane k Townsville.
Bank of |)eu> Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING. GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£1,000,000
Preference Shares .. .... 500,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
>'P 500.000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,240,587
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, Now Zea
land, Fiji. Great Bri
tain and Ireland, and other planes.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts till other usual Banking business.
Shipping:.
TN€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth arid
London.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE
t Triple-screw Turbine.
All steamers fitted with Wireless.
SALOON: FARES— Third-class.
London, from £45. £l6 to £2O.
Capetown and Durban, from £3O £l3/13/- to £l7/17/-
Special Round Tickets for Return by Orient Line,
£llO (First-class both ways); £B2 (Second-class
Orient). Saloon Return Tickets interchangeable
with Holt’s Blue Funnel Line. Third-Class Return
and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with P. & O.
Branch Service.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll4 10s.
SALOON CABINS on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest stan-
dard.
Pamphlets. Time-Tables. Ac., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia
Australian Steamships Line
Fast Passenger Steamers
SYDNEY -v
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIftNS
(Transhipping- for
other Queensland
Ports). j
COOMA (4000 tons).
From Sydney .. June 7
From Brisbane . . June 10
CANBERRA (8000 tons).
From Melbourne .. June 11
From Sydney .. June 14
From Brisbane . . June 17
INDARRA (10,000 tons).
Sydney Only.
From Melbourne . . June 14
BOMBALA (4000 tons).
From Melbourne . . June 18
From Sydney . . June 21
From Brisbane . . June 24
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
ISLAND TOURS!
hfd
For HEALTH and HOLIDAYS.
5 Weeks in the SOLOMONS—£2O.
(A Tour of Rare Chafm.)
S.S. “MINDINI”
leaves SYDNEY
JUNE 14.
5 Weeks in PAPUA
S.S. “MATUNGA’
leaves SYDNEY
JUNE 30.
APPLY PROMPTLY. ACCOMMODATION LIMITED.
BURNS, PHILP &. CO. Ltd.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
DIRECTORS:
£3,253,540
£2,250,000
£3,253,540
£8,757,080
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, lit,, M.L.G.
President.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buclcland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
AUDITORS: Shepheard Edgecliff Laidley, Esq., Alfred George Milson, Esq.
Head Office-George s-t.. Sydney. London Office 29 7 h read needle St, EC.
335 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London, Agents
and Correspondents throughout the World.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE
WORLD. J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
THE North Coast Steam
1 Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larlv to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S HAR-
BOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads—steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Bs. Cd. ; second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney , Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. £1,750,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . . . 1,580,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 1,750,000 0 0
£5,080,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen, Esq .. .. Chairman,
lion. 11. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman,
lion. 11. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman SIIEM.KY, Esq.
Auditors; W. L. Docker, Esq., and E. S. Cape, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dlnns.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
11. 11. Massif..
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 13 Bircliin - Lane.
Directors: F. IT. Dangar, F.gq. ; Hon. 11. S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. fcrivrner.
Branches throughout the State cf New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agendas throughout the world.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. . . ..£538.307
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 159'054
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock). 76,500
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. -■■■ '
Gen. Man.. Edvvd. D Dav. Asst. Man. :E. 11. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cann r n Street, London,
21 Hli INCHES IN QUEENSI.WD. E.C.
Agents and Corresnondents throughout the World.
T
HE Australian Magazine— TllE TONE
HAND. The Nutionul Monthly. Trice, 6U.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE.
*The largest and Finest Steamers trading between
Australia and San Francisco.
Around World and Around Pacific Tours.
Steamers stop 24 Hours at Papeete—the
“Pearl of the Pacific.”
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD
259 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
‘Zeaiandia,”
‘Ulimaroa,”
‘Riverina,”
“Westralia,”
“Wimmera,”
"Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted -'with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COM MO N WE A'EitKH A- ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS,
r . '"',j **" _
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And All Ports.
Shipping.
THEA D ELA| DE STEAMSHIP CO.
Victorian and Queensland Ports.'
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
Anri GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to ail North Western Ports.
TS 'h T^ arilda - June 7
and July 5 '
Fi ßoon^ irele3sTele - ra >'h.v.
80°0 tons. Carrying
ihree Classes. 1 s *
and 4-Berth Cabins.’
BRISBANE
MACKAT
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
S.S. Allinara, June 7.
T VslI am i"!, cka ' J,ine 14.
June 2l " ,a(80OHtOn8 )'
Saloon Passage Tickets are intei-eh-m,,,, i i
tlie first Port of call with other inter
on all services subject to conditions whi^h P!lni , cs
ascertained on application at the office
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
The Vancouver Route
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
Via FIJI AND HONOLULU.
CANADIAN - AUSTRALASIAN KM
LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
AROUND THE WORLD TOURS.
FIRST AND SECOND CLASS.
SAILINGS :
*New triple-screw steamer, fitted with cab'ns-de-
luxe en suite, Nursery, Laundry, Electric Lifts, etc.
All Steamers fitted witli Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION SIR AM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Federal & Shire Lines
Steam to London and Liverpool.
T.S.S. AYRSHIRE.
11,900 Tons. PAGE, Commander.
Will be despatched from —
SYDNEY, JULY 19.
The Saloon accommodation consists of all two-
berth cabins on the Upper deck, situated amidships.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious
decks. Third-class passengers supplied with fresh
provisions from cool chambers throughout the voyage.
Electric light throughout.
Return and Round Trip Tickets issued via Caps
and (or) Suez Route. Prepaid passages arranged.
Saloon. Third-class.
Fares to London.. £4O £l3/13/-to £l7/17/-
Steerage Fares from Brisbane, One Guinea Extra.
FITTED WITH WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY.
For further information, pamphlets, etc., apply to—
BIRT & CO., LTD., Sydney.
TURNBULL, MARTIN & CO., Brisbane.
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & CO. PTY., Ltd.,
Melbourne and Newcastle.
ELDER SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
H. JONES & CO.. LTD., Hobart.
A Whole Week Saved
SYDNEY to SAN FRANCISCO by the
Oceanic Steamship Company
10 000 tons, Twin Screw Steamers. 17 knots,
Classed 100 A 1 at British Lloyds.
CABINS DE LUXE with BATHS.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY- .
SONOMA .. .. | June 28 Aug. 23 | Oct. 18 | Dec. 13
VENTURA .. j July 26 Sept. 20 j Nov. 15 j Jan. 1U
The through trip to England can be accomplished
in 29 Days via Samoa, Honolulu, San Francisco.
RETURN TICKETS GOOD BY P. &0., ORIENT LINE,
N.D.L., N.Z .S. Co. and S. S. & A. Co.
Tel. 2282 City. Apply—44 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
New Zealand Insurance Clii.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
LIVE STOCK and GENERAL.
VEALTHIEST COLONIAL COMPANY.
NCES EFFECTED at LOWEST Current. Rates.
I MARINE BRANCH: 77 PITT STREET, SYDN
i£NT BRANCH : 117 PITT STREET, s * DN U' s
LA. Minnett &A. E. D’Arcy, Joint Man g •_
h
DEDCERT
Kills
Cockroaches.
CEORCE GOUGH & SON LD., Agents, Albert St., Brisbane
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wk 't
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant-
ling, Seasoned Flooring an
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS' HALL, LONDON, E.O.
LORD STREET, TERTH, W.A.
QUEEN'S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE,
68J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S. .
Branches in all parts of the world.


GLORIOUS TOURS to the!
fdh
SOUTH SEA
.... and ....
EASTERN
PACIFIC
ISLANDS
by the Luxurious
Steamers,
T.S.S. TOFUA, 4400 tons, JUNE 17.
T.S.S. ATUA, 3500 tons, JULY 15.
Specially built for tropical climates. All Cabins,
Dining Saloon, and Social Hall on upper deck. Per-
fect Ventilation and Electric Light throughout.
The above Steamers sail from Sydney every 28
days to FIJI (Lautoka, Suva, Levuka), SAMOA
(Apia), FRIENDLY ISLANDS (Vavau, Haapai,
Nukualofa) and AUCKLAND, transhipping thence to
Steamer for Sydney and Melbourne at frequent inter-
vals.
Sydney to RAROTONGA and TAHITI (via Wel-
lington), R.M.S. AORANGI, June 14. Passengers
can spend 10 days in Tahiti and return by R.M.
s.s. MOANA, arriving Sydney'July 22.
There is also a service every 28 days from Auck-
land to EASTERN PACIFIC GROUP (RAROTONGA,
RAIATEA and TAHITI. Talune, duly 1. (Maheno,
from Sydney, June 25, connects.)
All Steamers fitted with Wireless.
Full particulars and Descriptive Booklets on appli-
cation to the various offices in Australasia of the
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., Ltd.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
Hotels, &c.
' EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 13 - per day.
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It is
the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL ; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night,
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared,to ensure the conifort of guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
. Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
*tf**tc
Fits “Wonder” has
No "Bromide of Potash.”
Safe, Certain Cure—
-6 Bottles posted 17/2.
Write for particulars—
T. H. MERSON,
16 Hunter St., Sydney, &
229 Collins St., Melbourne.
WAVERLEY PENS
FOR SWIFT LEGIBLE WRITING NO PEN
CAN COMPETE WITH A WAVERLEY.
ITS ENTICING ACTION, ITS SMOOTH
TURNED-UP POINT, AND ITS DURA-
BILITY, MAKE IT INCOMPARABLY THE
BEST NIB AND THE CHEAPEST. THE
RESERVOIR WAVERLEY CAN DO 200
WORDS WITH ONE DIP. TRY IT.
SIXPENCE PER BOX
SOLO BY STATIONERS AND DEALERS.
Wholesale Agent
ROBERT HUTTON
521 FLINDERS LANE
: MELBOURNE :
U wCIhIM£P MONEY & PKOPtRTY.
DOUQAL’R RR'+ISTr.R to NFXT-OF-KIN.
CHANCERY HEIRS, LEGATEES. Ac., Ac., price
5;-,480 pages. Robertson’s, booksellers, Melbourne,
Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, or Dougal <v 00.
Claims investigated and carried through
OOUCALakCO.,ISI STR *ND. LONDON, ENCLAND
{Ksiabljsthf.fi oner 60 Years.)
ASA
/
ARABI'S CELEBRATED EG Y P TIA N-H E N NA,
tor Grey - Hair, the best .and cheapest, 1 £ - nd f-* t
(Observe signature, , Alfred Aidley, h. *
Avoid the counterfeiter (same ease, same bottle).
G enmte obtutaable:— m-vureT? W
SYDNEY: MAT.K KOY’S, ALL CHEMISTS,
ASSOMULL and Stores. „ T „ >a M . r
MELBOURNE: EDMENT’S, S. COLE S, MAC-
LELLAN’S. ALL CHEMISTS. W. ASSOMULL.
Common wealth
33
Bank of Hustvalfa
Branches are open for .the transaction of General Banking Business throughout Australia
as under :
New South Wales— Sydney and Canberra Victoria— Melbourne. Queensland —Rrisbane and
Townsville. South Australia Adelaide Western Australia— Perth Tasmania— Hobart.
And at Egypt House, 36-38 New ISroad Street, London
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign Rills negotiated and
collected Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued to any part of the world. Rills negotiated or
forwarded for collection. Ranking and Exchange Rusiness of every description transacted within the
Commonwealth United Kingdom-apd foreign countries.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT
Agencies are open In practi ally all Post Offices which issue Money Orders in the Australian
Commonwealth and Papua.
Withdrawals on demand may be effected for sums up to £lO at any Office within the Commonwealth
t
1/-
Minimum
Deposit
3%
Rate of Interest on
all Deposits up to
£3OO
•Oru Jakuart, 1913
DENISON MILLER. Govirxoe
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queensland •
offers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the prospective
settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office : 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
Use WELSBACH MANTLES
ViiXt
MA
*•»
V‘f,
rjt
for EVERY KIND OF LIGHT
Our Illustration shows a new type
of Soft or Collapsible Inverted
Mantle, which entirely overcomes
transit and initial installation
breakage. Write for particulars.
WELSBACH LIGHT CO. LTD. OF AUSTRALASIA
302 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
380 Lonsda'e Street. Melbourne. Creak Strut. inVI V'wvnn<rtnn. N Z
MAKE £4O A MONTH
Be Your Own Boss
.t. .ill
*
500 to 1500% Profit in Each Sale
If you are leaking less than £lO a week you should
write me to-< ay. I can help you to wealth ana in-
dependence la an entirely new business. You can
work when you please, where you please, always
have money and the means of making barrels more
° f HOW WOULD YOU LIKE to start out from home
on a combination business and pleasure trip, stay at
the best hotels, and live like a lord and clean up
£2 a day? Work at amusement places, on street
corners, manufacturing institutions, an> where and
everywhere, ten minutes’ walk from home or on the
other side of the globe. Just set my Camera up any
place you happen to select, and make £2 a day above
operating expenses.
PAPER POST CARDS DIRECT
My proposition Is my WONDERFUL NEW
COMBINATION CAMERA with which you can
tike and Instantaneously develop ELEVEN entlre.y
chferent styles of pictures, including Buttons, four
varieties and two sizes of Paper Post Cards, and six
stvles of Tintype pictures. Every picture Is devel-
oped without the use of flirts or negatives and
Is ready to deliver to your customer In less than
* s after making the exposure. This
REMARKABLE INVENTION takes 100 pictures
an hour Everybody wants pictures, and each sale
you make Advertises your business and makes more
sales lor you.
TREMENDOUS PROFITS
Max Brodle states: I made £942.12s In eleven
months* my average profit was £2 7s per day* r
S D-’ Gibson says: I cleared up more than £4O
profit with your Outfit In a short time
- p'Vl Smore writes: I have not kept track, but
have made £llto £l2 a week right along with your
Outfit, which beats them all.
Hundreds of letters like these prove the tremendous
money-making possibilities In this new, unique ana
absolutely Independent profession. Every sale gives
you a profit of from 500 to 1,500 per cent.
NO EXPERIENCE NEEDEO
Simple Instructions accompany Onto®, jujfl
you can begin to make money in fifteen minutes
after my Outfit reaches you. .
This business is so new, the demand for photos so
universal, that everyone who sees your Camera is a
profitable customer for you.
1 -rim profits are so quick, so certain, so steady that
a few hours’ work each day at home, or anywhere
on earth gives you a big permanent income, men
it you cannot put all ot your time into this business,
your spare moments may m this pleasant and, easy may
be made to pay you many times more reward, than yout
Pr^rWter^rs. n Sundays and holidays mean
rich harvests for you. and there are scores andseores
of cases where earnings of from £5 to uuSdS
made in a few short hours by men who are regularly
employed in mills, offices and on farms, and who
never worked a Camera until they got my new,
simple and thoroughly guaranteed Outfit.
POSITIVE MONEY-MAKING PROOFS FREE
You should investigate this proposition at once.
The proofs showing the money-making ability of
this Camera we will give you free and they will startle,
fnvestment trill get this wonderful Outfit
for you and put you in a position to make£soo a
vear If you want to be independent and absolutely
your own boss, write me to-day and I will send you
bv return mail, full free information regarding this
WONDERFUL PROPOSITION, including letters
offering positive proofs from every part of the world.
L*
DON’T DELAY, ANSWER THIS
LASCELLE, Mgr., 627 W. 43d St
ANNOUNCEMENT TO-DAY
Dept. 31* NEW YORK,
U.
S. A>
THE ACCORDEON for Country Residents.
fd
We don’t believe any Accordeon conies
so near perfection as the Celebrated
STAR Trombone Accordeon.
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners ; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Itotary Celeste Stop.
Price £l.
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Orsran Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Brice £1 7s. 6d.;
postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical
Instruments, Watches, Jewellery, etc.,
210 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
Things Gentlemen
Demand
Fit, comfort, quality, and style
-—the things gentlemen demand
in Shoes. They get them all
in Abbey Shoes. Abbey Shoes
are preferred of all others by
men who know really good shoes
when they see them.
The Boot illustrated is a Patent
Golosh Bal., Dull Calf Deg,
Perforated Golosh, 27/6 and
30/-
Also in Tan Willow T Calf, 22/<l,
25/-, and 27/6.
Postage, extra.
In half sizes and quarter fit-
tings.
SEND FOR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between GP.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
•>
I do use WRIGHT’S
Antiseptic Myrrh
TOOTH SOAP
So have Beautiful Teeth
and a Sweet Breath. Pre-
serves the enamel. Heals the
gums. Removes tartar. It's
entirely free from acids, and
all smart dentists recommend
its constant use. Your address
on a penny posicard, sent to
us. Will bring you a trial sample free. Large box sent,
post paid, for One Shilling in stamps. Look out!
There are imitations. Sold by Chemists everywhere.
CHAS. WRIGHT CHEMICAL CO.
Detroit, Mich., U.S.A.
WHEN ORDERING
(J&aM
ALE
Insist on
FOSTERS
‘Bugle
Brand’
IT’S YOUR
GUARANTEE
OF EXCELLENCE.
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE.
4
Made in England. Perfectly
harmless, indetectable,
\ and guaranteed free
X from Nitrate of
\ Silver and Lead
Salts.
IN VARIOUS
SHADES Raven
Black, Black,
Broun, Light or
Ooldon Brown,
Blonde, Chestnut
and Auburn
Pr 103 3/6, ported 3/11.
Directions with every
bottle.
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 The Block Arcade, Collins St., Melbourne


Amusements.
- r
8 Y D N E Y.
JOWN
HALL,
■jtww.
LAST TWO
CONCERTS.
THURSDAY,
JUNE 5.
MATINEE,
JUNE 7-
FREDERIC
SIIIPMAN
PRESENTS
THE GREAT BARITONE
D AVID B I SP 11 A M
Prices: 55., 35., 2s.
PLANS AT PALING’S
UKK MA.IEST Y’S THEATRE,
* ■ Direction .I.' C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.50.
NEW COMIC OPERA CO.
THE COUNT OF LUXEMBOURG.
PLANS AT PALING’S
PRICES: D.C and O.S. (Reserved and at Door), 6/-;
Stalls, 4/- ; Amphitheatre till 7.M0, 2/- ; thereafter, 1/-
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
* Lessee: J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
LAST TWO NIGIITS OF T ETMING OF THE SHREW
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT.
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN SYDNEY,
OSCAR ASCHE’S GORGEOUS PRODUCTION OF
A MIDSUMMER NIGHT’S DREAM.
Prices : D.C. & O.S. (Reserved), 7/6 ;ar Doors, 6/-; Stalls,
4/- ; Gallery to 7.80, 2/- ; thereafter, 1/- PI ins at Paling's.
ADELPHI THEATRE. SYDNEY.
“ Direction : WILLIAM ANDERSON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF THE EVIL MEN DO.
SATURDAY NIGHT NEXT.
FOR TWELVE NIGHTS ONLY.
THE GIRL WHO KNEW A BIT.
In Four Acts and Sixteen Tableaux,
POPULAR PRICES: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & 1/-
S V D N K Y.
PAL A C E TIIEA T R E.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
LAST WEEK OF AUSTRALIA’S BIGGEST BOOM.
The Play that will Live for all Time.
STEELE RUDD’S FAMOUS AUSTRALIAN STORY,
ON OUR SELECTION.
Box Plan at Paling’s. POPULAR PRICES : 4/-, 2/6, V-
Early Doors to Stalls, 6d. extra ; to Gallery, 1/- extra:
ITTLE THEATRE, CASTLEREAGH
• SYDNEY
(With the BIG Attractions).
EVERY EVENING, AT B.lo*
HUGH C. BUCKLER & VIOLET PAGET
• present
THE SUCCESSFUL SATIRICAL GEM, - !
FANNY’S FIRST PLAY.
PRICES : Orchestral Stalls, 6/-; Stalls, 4/-; Gallery (till
7.30), 2/- ; after that hour, 1/- - Box Plan at Paling's.
N
SYDNEY.
ATIONAL AMPHITHEATRE,
EVERY. EVENING AT S.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
BRENNAN FULLER'S VAUDEVILLE CO.
TIE hi ROYAL BANZAI.
FAMILY OF JAPANESE EQUILIBRISTS. THE
ABSOLUTE LT.MIT. IN THRILLING AND DARING
SENSATIONALISM. And Fourteen Other Great Arts.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Theatre.
gPENCEII’S LYCEUM, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING.
QUO VA Dr s ?
THE WORLD’S GREATEST ACHIEVEMENT IN
SILENT PORTRAYAL.
8000 ft..—A FULL EVENING’S -ENTERTAINMENT.
J H E OLYMPIA, SYDNEY-
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEE—SATURDAY.
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRA.
3d. to 2s. Plan at Nicholson’s (No Extra Fee).
ALHAMBRA THEATRE, SYDNEY
HAYMARKET VAUDEVILLE HOUSE.
Direction JOS. L. GOODMAN.
TO-NIGHT AND EVERY EVENING.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS. 2 30.
Children Half-price to all parts
STAR VAUDEVILLE & MINSTRELS.
NEW PROGRAMME EVERY SATURDAY MATINEE
PRICES : 1/6, 1/- & fid. ; Saturdays, 2/-, 1/6, I/-'-
Doors, 7.15 ; Overture, fc.
CYD N E Y
GEACIA R I U M.
REAL ICE SKATING.
Three sessions daily: 10 to 12, 3° to 5,
f 8 to 10.30.
Admission, 2s. Skate Hire, 6d.
Children: Morning and afternoon onl
Admission Is.
Children : Saturday morning. Admission 6<
’PRone 492 Glebe.
M I* KKI A L HOLLER
Foot, of William Street
DUNBAR POOLE, Manager.
? I N K,
A REFINED RINKING RENDEZVOUS
Tor
FASTIDIOUS PEOPLE.
NOW OPEN.
THREE SESSIONS PER DAY.
JAMES C. BENDRODT,
General Manager.
I D IC K A R 1) S' TIVOLI THEATRE.
■■ Personal Direction Mr. HUGH D. McINTOSH.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
, THE KREMKA BROS., Novelty and Eccentric Acrobats.
| TORCAT & R AUZA S ROOSTERS, the Bird Marvels.
BEI.LCEAIR BROS., the Mod' rii Gladiators.
THE 4 QUAINT Q's, in Humorous Burlesque,
i THE KEBBLES, DALE & BROOKES, A. G. >PRY,
KITTY DAI.E, MAROARET OGIEVIE, ELIZABETH
CLAIR, ALBERTO MARINI, etc.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
Prices: 5/-, 4,'- and 1/-
l» Ell A II <) US K. MKLIS <> l It XE.
Personal Direction Mr. HUGH D. McINTOSH.
O HANA SAN & CO., in the Original Scena, “A Vision
of Japan.”
THE BE BRUNS, in their Novelty Dancing Act.
GEOi WHITEHEAD, American Baritone.
THE FAMOUS JACKSON FAMILY, Trick Cyclists.
SIX FLYING BANVaRDS, the Greate-t Aerial Act.
DE MARLO ANI 1 LAI>Y. in “A Frog’s Paradise.”
CASSIE WALMEIt. Ev rvbo iv’s Favorite.
Plan at Allan’s. 45., Bs., 25., Is.
|y|ELBOURN£’S NEW CONCERT HALL.
THE AUDI TOE I UM,
Now nearing completion, has been erected at a cost
of over £40,000, and will be the first Concert Hall
proper in Australia.
Seating accommodation—24oo.
Comfortable tip-up chairs in Stalls.
Handsome Lounge Seats in Balcony.
Comfortable Gallery seating throughout.
The Auditorium is equipped with heating and cooling
apparatus, which cost over £3OOO, by which the
atmosphere in wititer and summer will be kept to an
average temperature of 65 degrees.
Ample provision has been made for spacious en-
trances, exits, crush rooms, etc., all of which
will be heated in winter.
The Auditorium is suitable for Concerts of all
descriptions—Lectures, Meetings, Shows, Bazaars—
and other classes of amusements.
For vacant dates apply to
J. & N. TATT, The Auditorium, Collins Street.
XoKIo ~T O W
■ JAPANESE LIFE AND THEATRICAL TALENT.
THE AUDITORIUM.
LIMITED SEASON, COMMENCING
SATURDAY NEXT, JUNE 7.
“A Breeze from the Orient.”
The Great
JAPANESE SHOW NOVELTY OF 1913.
TOKIO TOWN.
A WONDERFUL AGGREGATION.
Amazing and Inimitable Exponents of Feats, Games
and Mysteries, peculiar to
THE LAND OF THE LOTUS
30 JAPANESE STAR ARTISTS 30
SPECIAL SCENIC EFFECTS.
Brought at Enormous Expense
DIRECT FROM JAPAN.
Each act in the Tokio Town presentation is a
complete entertainment in itself.
Prices: 3/- (Reserved), 2/- and One Shilling.
Box Plans at Allan’s.
Q LARA BUTT-RUMFORD TOUR.
J. & N. TAIT present Madame
CLARA BUTT*
And Mr.
KENNEIiLIiY RUMEORD.
Final Melbourne Concert in
THE AUDITORIUM,
THURSDAY EVENING, JUNE 5.
ADELAIDE SEASON,
JUNE 7,9, 11, 14.
SYDNEY SEASON,
JUNE 21, 24, 26, 28; JULY 1, 3, 6.
BRISBANE SEASON,
JULY 17, 19, 21.
TOUR—Under the Direction- of J. & N. TAIT,
' The Auditorium, Melbourne.
DIUNCESS'S THEATRIC, M ECHO'D KNE.
■ Sole Lessee: GEO. MARLOW LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
George Marlow’- Dramatic Combination in the
PictSnvsque, Romantic and Stirring Drama',
FROM CONVENT TO THRONE.
POPULAR PRICES. Plan at Pianola Co.
U Eli .MAJESTY’S THEATRIC. .MELBOURNE
■ 1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
• J ' t
EVERY EVENING, AT 7.50.
THE ROYAL COMTC OPERA CO.
in the Successful Gaiety Production,
TILL SU N 811 IN R GIRL.
Pkm af-Allan’s. Reserved Scats A- Dress Circle. 6/-
Rg loony and Stalls, 4/- ; Pit and Gallery, 2/-
T«EA T R £ It OYA L. MICLHOL UXE
• Direction J WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
• EVERY EVENING AT 8.
rrtisT production in Australia
of the Great American Dramatic Success,
WITHIN THU LAW.
PRICES: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-
Smlls, 4 Gallery. 2,-. Plan at Allan's
X i,h * kTnTTs Til ICATKE. M El.liOL KNE.
* ’ Sole Lessee and Manager: William Akdkrsok.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Reappearance of W. Anderson’s Dramatic Organisation
! in
. The Play of Love, Life and Adventure,
THE SAILOR’S WEDDING.
POPULAR PRICES. PLANS AT ALLAN’S.
|CE SKATING. ICE SKAtTnG.
THE GLACTA R I u M,
MELBOURNE.
EVERY AFTERNOON: ADMISSION 2/-
EVERY EVENING: ADMISSION 1/-
LVUIC THEATRE, Chapel St., I’rail ran Vic
EVERY NIGHT at 8. MATINEE, SATURDAY’
at 2.30.
. TIIF. FAMOUS “NON-FLICKER” .
PHOTOPLAYS
on the Marvellous "Mack" Screen, together with the
Supeiib • LYRI© '-OIK’UKS'MRA. 6(1. to 2s. Plans at
Allan’s. .G. Read’s aw the Lyric Theatre Gaft;.
■DIRECTION AMALGAMATED PICTURES
LTD.
Melbourne's Latest and Finest Picture Palace.
TJI K MAJ NllC 111 KAI \i K.
FLINDERS STREET, opp. Princes Bridge Station.
Continuous Matinees Daily■ from 12 to 6 o'clock.
3d., (id. and II-
Eveninsr Prices: 2/-, I/O. 1/- and Gd. Plan at Allan’s.
/"> L V M P I A. O L Y M P i A.
U V M I* 1 A. MKLIiOUKNE.
(Just across Princes Bridge).
WHERE ARE TO BE SEEN THE UNRIVALLED
SPENCER'S' PICTURES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS AT 2.30.
EVERY NIGHT AT 8.
WEST'S PALACE. MEtTI '
in e best WEST’S PICTTJRFq Urne
OF ALL LIMITED BESt
■nonTL?*TTC ’’Ss&te**
... „ ™.l All 1I„1„|„ ! " I "|*!’. s.t M
f vrv wVek -' U to at Gl^
B
A R R oTi;
(Queensland) - -•
THEATRICAL AND PirTnnp ,
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville" in n AGERs -
Charter^To\vers. ePting BHsbane > *££%
route, appearing in aH MiTLeadin^Th oVer thii
we have the Book ins Control "" Theatrea °f which
Representatives in Queensland for the
Company of Australasia Ltd General Fil m
Head Office: ROTHWELL CHAMBERS, BRI SB a Ne
GIVE ME 15 MINUTES EACH DAY OF
says
your time.
WALTER BENTLEY,
THE DISTINGUISHED
actor, u
and I’ll teach you how to
MA£E SPEECHES,
PROPOSE TOASTS,
ADDRESS BOARD MEETINGS,
SELL MORE GOODS,
STRENGTHEN MEMORY,
DEVELOP STRONG PERSONALITY
CONVERSE WINNINGLY,
ACQUIRE POISE AND DISTINCTION
and
OBTAIN PERFECT HEALTH,
BY CORRECT BREATHING AND PHYSICAL CULTURE
Thousands of business and professional people have become convincing speakers in n,,w
business by following a Mail Course in their spare time at home or at their office f Public ana ln
their power and influence, and put them on the straight road to BIG SUCCESS 1188 lncrease <i
“WORTH MUCH MORE THAN IT COSTS.”
Only one address: Ladies and Gentlemen, call or write at once
301 a PITT STREET, OPPOSITE CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
“A PERFECT FICURE CREATED
IN 30 DAYS.”
'How I obtained a beautiful form with the exact measurements of the
Venus de Milo, after massage, suction cups, electricity, prescriptions,
exercises and other methods had all failed/'
A remarkable interview with Mile. Merlain, the reigning French
Beauty, who mounted to fame in a single night. She generously
reveals her priceless secret for the first time to all
Sydney “ Bulletin ” readers.
By Mile. ADRIENNE LACOUVIER.
In all my career as a newspaper writer I
never received an assignment with greater
pleasure than that which instructed me to
obtain, if possible, an interview with Mile.
Merlain during her stay in London. It was
with some trepidation, however, that I
month, although for many years previously
she had a flat, scraggy chest, and a soft,
flabby, absolutely uudeveloped bust. She
eloquently described the intense humiliation
she once felt, her fear of appearing in even-
ing dress, how men even seemed to shun her
R?JS
r,
P.
P
m
sought her address, firmly bent upon glean-
ing some few scraps of information and
viewing with 'my own eyes the wondrous
form which newspapers have so widely pro-
claimed to he a “symphony in curves” and
the exact modern counterpart of the .classical
Venus. For who could better advise her less-
favored sisters than the possessor of the
figure that startled even blas6 Paris by its
flawless perfection, and which made her the
sensation of the season at the artistically
exacting French capital!
Many former experiences in interviewing
or attempting to interview celebrities led me
to expect encounters with numerous difficul-
ties and obstacles in the form of officious
secretaries, maids and what not. with which
noted persons are prone to hedge themselves
about. Imagine my surprise, then, upon
being promptly ushered into the presence of
the leading exponent of “the magnetism of
curves'” With no more formality than!involved
handing my card to her maid. Mile. Merlain
received me with gracious cordiality that
instantly placed me at my ease, and there
was about her that indefinable air of distinc-
tion and dignity which we unconsciously
associate with women possessing perfect phy-
sical development and the magnetic personal
charm that always accompanies it.
I easily recognise Mile. Merlain from the
pictures we see in the illustrated papers, but
no mere photograph could do justice to the
wonderful symmetry of form and the
unconscious grace which marked her every
movement as she conversed with me. nor
could any camera portray the marvellous
natural beauty of her complexion, the
sparkling eyes, and magnetic personality, all
forming the perfect embodiment of ravishing
feminine charm apd irresistible attraction.
Hers is, indeed, the ideal figure which every
imperfectly developed woman envies, and. oh
learning the object of my visit. Mile. Merlain
generously consented to reveal the exact
nature of the pfOcess whereby she was able
to obtain her perfect form, and which
developed her bust six inches in a single
898
M
as a woman of almost masculine appearance,
and devoid of all feminine physical attrac-
tion. How marked is the contrast between
this former pitiable state and the picture oi
superb and fascinating womanhood she no«
presents; the admiration and praise she no»
receives in a single day would turn a
ordinary woman’s head. , .
To explain in detail the method Mie.
Merlain used would somewhat overrun t
space allotted to me for this article,
after much persuasion she agreed to dicta
and have her secretary write out the ne
sary particulars, and arrangements have wx
made to post this valuable information a -
lutely free of cost to any readers 01 _
paper sufficiently interested to send a p •
stamp for postage. Mile. Merlain has
nothing whatever to sell, and refused .
accept the slightest payment for ber tro •
saying she has explained the nietno
•many of her friends, who used it
remarkable success, and as it non app
to be practically infallible, she welcomes
this opportunity to show her gaoM■ e
giving the secret to her readers. I nng t))e
here thht the method .can bg. uaed t
strict privacy of your* - home. and .
diet, strenuous exercises, a P,Pf,^ t r u^ nr „“fni
ous drug preparations, or stftUK. iu nl^od s
ences commonly associated with other .
for which I have seen extravagant c»u»
111 The arrangement with Mile.
been made for the special benefit * article
“Bulletin” readers only. an *{ *s' iu ‘ vonr
should be torn out and enclosed m , t „
letter as evidence that you q ?£f ]v n address
receive the information. StoPV House.
Mile. Merlain, 1024. E.. -Pembroke j
Oxford Street. London. w -. England, expireS
advise writing promptly, ,fIS t 0 f trouble
in 00 days owing to the amount « *
and work involved. Nhjyerthele, su bject
it very kind and generous of her to •» gbor(
herself to the inconvenience eve that
period—especially wlieo sell
she is not in business and has nothing
or gain by doing so. *


M
Kl®@Kl@fu
U£<T,
dW
A High-Class Cigarette
at a Moderate Price.
Do not buy anything but the best the
world can produce ; “ Winfred ” cigarettes
are the last word in cigarette quality.
CIGARETTES
10
for
6 d
Plain or Gold Tipped
TO "BE OBTAINED EVERYWHERE
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
20
for
1/*
Sole Manufacturers: ARDATH TOBACCO Co., Ltd., London, Eng.
"Viyella
for Day and
Night Wear.
—¥
91
li
Have you ever tried “Viyella”? It has uses for every member
of the household—the children may have their frocks, night-
dresses and underwear made of it; mother will be pleased
to have her blouses, nightdresses and undergarments made
of it; whilst father’s shirts and pyjamas will be the better
for its use.
“Viyella” keeps the body at a normal temperature, at the same time providing for free circulation of air.
The special nature of the yarn from which it is made guarantees the durability of the fabric.
The softness of “Viyella,” the fact that it does not shrink, its lightness and its warmth-giving properties
commend it particularly for wear during the Winter.
“Viyella” may be obtained from leading drapers and storekeepers everywhere. If not obtainable locally
write for the address of the nearest retailer to
I. & R. MORLEY,
56 Market Street, Sydney ; and 250 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
The “Viyella” Label is a guarantee
of the good qualities of the material.
ALWAYS ASK TO SEE IT.
MIL
0
s=«
\m


Used Cuticura Remedies and Has
Never Had One Since. Has Rec-
ommended Cuticura for Fully
Twenty Years and It Has Never
Failed,
Foxton, New Zealand. —“I am a hair-
dresser by trade and I was about seventeen
when I first used Cuticura. Since then I
have recommended it to hundreds and as I
X
am now about thirty-nine
I could say for fully twenty
years, and it has never
failed in a single instance,
in fact I feel as though I
could give a written guar-
antee to anyone who will
use it for pimples or erup-
tions of the face.
“ One case was that of Mr. R. Corkery of
this town. He had a rash underneath the
skin right down one side of the face and he
spent pounds on liniment and medicine
without success. He was told he would have
to have the hair pulled out as the roots were
diseased, but I asked him to give Cuticura
Remedies a trial first before going through
that ordeal, which he did, and it has never
returned. That would be about 4 years ago.
“I suffered with boils for two years.
There was never a week but what I had two
or three sometimes more and I tried every-
thing until there was practically nothing I
had not tried. At last I had to take Cuti-
cura and I had three boils when I started
and I have never had one since which is two
years ago. I had several inquiries for what
cured my boils and I have told them all
Cuticura Remedies.” (Signed) Ernest Ball,
April, 1912.
Cuticura Soap and Ointment sold every-
where. Sample of each with 32-page Skin
Book, post-free. Address R. Towns & Co., 1
Sydney, N. S. W.
Drives Sallowness
from the Skin
Ladies, imperfect complexion is caused by
a sluggish liver. A few days’ treatment with
CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER PILLS will do
more to clean up the skin
than all the beauty
creams in creation.
Cures constipation,
unclogs the liver,
ends indigestion,
biliousness and
dizziness.
Purely vege-
table, never'
fail. ‘
hfd
Carters
'ITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
The GENUINE must bear signature
9
Her Youth
•o,
’J
(U.5.A)
Mex.jcan
WALNUT STAIN
for Grey Hair
IS THE
only permanent and really satisfactory
ONE SOLUTION Hair Stain
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES
The Best BtisH Doctor of All!
If you’ve got a poisoned hand, a sore leg, an abscess,
a boil, a running sore, Eczema in any form, Barcoo
rot —or if you’ve a wound that won’t heal or a
jagged cut, all you need
have to cure it is a tin of
Wilkinson’s
Eclectric Ointment.
Price 1/6, Posted 119. J WILKINSON, Chemist,
K.E.8., Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane
ASTHMA CURE
GRIAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difflenlty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Congha,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co's INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. So d bv all Chemists.
Australian Magazine. THE LONE
I HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6a,
HOWTO
GROW HAIR
A Simple, Safe and Reliable Way that Produces Surprising Results
NEW preparation causes big stir among hair specialists
The above clearlv shows Results from a Short Course of my True Hair-Growing Compound
10,000 free trial boxes.
Those who are troubled with falling hair, dandruff,
baldness, itching scalp, etc., know full well the
humiliation that they cause. There is no need, how-
ever, of such conditions. These troubles can be
quickly overcome by my True Hair Grower.
I am not an advertising quack, but am a business
man. My hair began to grow thin about the time
I reached the age of thirty. When I had reached the
age of thirty-five the top of my head was quite bald.
I had considerable pride, and sought for something
to cause renewed growth. I invested in every pre-
paration that I could see or hear of, and here let me
say that not only did I try all the English so-called
restorers, but those of Continental Europe. I also
visited specialists. My experimenting cost me many
sovereigns and considerable time—yet the hairs came
noG I had given up the idea of ever growing hair
again. One afternoon, while enjoying a brief busi-
ness respite by an Alpine trip, I fell in with an old
collegiate chemist, whose hair was particularly plen-
tiful. I jokingly remarked that I wished he could
spare some of his hair for my benefit. This lead him
to tell me that he understood the human hair as well
as a good dentist understands teeth. He wrote out a
formula, and suggested that I have a quantity of the
compound prepared. I did this a few days later i
was astonished to see the hair coming forth after
several applications, and within six weeks mv his,
was covered by a firm, yet soft, black growth of ha
Since then the hair on my head has been as luxuriant
as when in my school days. Having arranged fo
the legal right to do so, 1 have for some time been
privately selling this marvellous hair growing com
pound I hold over one thousand letters from people
who have actually grown new hair through the
medium of my true hair grower. I do not pretehd
to say it is the only hair grower in the world—l am
not interested in decrying others—but Ido assert
that it is the most reliable, and in the end by far the
cheapest.
Baldness, Dandruff, Itching, etc.,
Free Trial Coupon.
Cut out this Coupon and send with 3 stamps
to cover postage, etc., and I will immediately
post a large trial box of my True Hair Grower.
John Craven Burleigh, Dept. 7, 107 Castlereaeli
Street. Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMIBTB.
Prices In
England—
-1/I*. 2/9 & 4/6.
mertdlr
Made in England.
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectual!;
cuts short all
attacks if
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUGHS, COLDS, ABTHMA, and In
Ml* cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acts like a charm In
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY.
If you want the very best
Flannelette
the Old Country Produces
buy HORROCKSES’
LATFST VICTORY
GRAND PRIZE
D3| C Cl C
EXHIBITION. 1910
SEE HORROCKSES’ NAME ON
SELVEDGES and decline all substitute*
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and Storekeepers.
The “Swan-Safety” is simpler and more reliable than any
other pen made; may be carried in any position, in any pocket,
handbag or trunk, without fear of leakage; with the “ladder”
feed, erratic working is out of the question; the nib is the
product of over 60 years’ experience; the holder is beautifully
balanced and holds a good supply of ink.
&WA
rOWNTPBN
Sold by all
Stationers.
Catalogue Free on Request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London, W.C.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only) :
J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George St., Sydney
hfd
'S/S//SS///S//S'\ y/s///syyssyj^/ss*
fil
I _ i'
v_3hV
B ioa NZ
Benger’s is the most easily
digested of all foods.
It is appetising and delicious, and
is enjoyed and assimilated when other
foods cause pain and distress.
CM
•Itl®
for Infants, Invalids, and the Aged, enjoys the
universal recommendation of Medical men in all
cases of severe or temporary illness, and during
convalescence.
h
Food
Post free—to at] who have the care of Infants and Invalids, a 48-
Book ct, “Beng-er’s Food and How to Use It,
BENGEB’B FOOD, Ltd., Otter Wo-ki, MANCHESTER, tn
117, PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.B.W.
Food is sold in tins by Druggists, etc., ezerywht u
Benger's Food 1
Business, Robbery, etc.
* * * *
“W.J.H.”: While floods were raging lately in the
South Island (M.L.), a cocky person telephoned to
one of the sodden stations asking if the lines were
open for live stock yet. The stationmaster sent
numerous telegrams, memos, and telephone messages
to the offices on either side of him, and finally got
an assurance that the l ; nes were good again. Then
he communicated the glad tidings to the cocky, and
awaited advice of the consignment so that they
might get two dozen trucks ready. Instead of the
expected advice, the consignment came along in
person—a not-excessively-large rooster in a wire-
netted box.
* ♦ * *
From a recent communication by one Hamilton
Gosche to the Sydney press:—“With regard to the
suggestion that the electric supply from the city
could be obtained by means of the tunnel now being
constructed by the Railway Department between
Long Nose Point and Greenwich, I may point out
that the permission of the Balmain and Lane Cove
Councils would have to be obtained before this could
be effected. The Balmain Council cannot give such
'permission because it has an agreement with the
Electric Light and Power Supply Corporation,
Limited.” What a lesson it provides to suburban
councils in regard to the short-sightedness of sign-
ing away their liberty to Private Enterprise.
* * * *
“Catamain”: About the coolest business proposi-
tion I ever heard of has been made to a small
northern (N.S.W.) church congregation. The pro-
poser, a good church member himself, of course, put
it this way: “I’ve been an undertaker here for 35
years, and I’ve always given satisfaction. But my
old bearse is nearly worn out and I want a new
one. If everybody belonging to the church would
only put up a pound each, I’d be fitted out with a
lovely hearse, and they wouldn’t lose, for when they
died I’d bury them for a pound less than the usual
rate.” So little is financial genius encouraged in those
parts that the brilliant idea couldn’t even find a
seconder.
* * * *
The good Imperialist who turns down the razor
marked “Made in Germany” and buys the one
branded “Sheffield,” under the impression that he is
thereby giving preference to the Ma Country’s in-
dustry, sometimes falls in. The whisker-shifter isn’t
always as Br'tish as it says it is. In fact, very
often it is merely a German disguised in an English
top-hat, so to speak. Germany supplies Sheffield
with huge quantities of “blanks,” i.e., forged scissor,
knife and razor blades in the rough. These are tem-
pered and finished off in the place which some people
point to as an example of what great manufacturing
centres can grow up and flourish under Freetrade.
They are then sent out to the unsophisticated buyer
as “Sheffield” goods. Lately the Cutlers’ Company
reckoned the fraud was getting too hot, and
whispered in the ear of the manufacturers of the
“Sheffield” ironmongery that is made in Germany
that they were breaking the law in relation to false
brands, and if they didn’t take a pull the name of
the goods would be Costs.
* * * •
Some of Victoria’s shire councillors are wasting
themselves messing with roads and culverts and
similar trifles; they should be writing political
articles for the Liberal papers. One of them lately
told his fellows that “rabbits were increas : ng to
such an extent in Gippsland that farmers’ earnings
were reduced bv one-half; £lOO,OOO was spent each
year, principally on inspectors, and this was absolutely
thrown away. If the money were spent in import-
ing wire-netting, an immense amount of good would
accrue.” Doubtless —to the importers. It is not
generally known that imported netting is far more
detrimental to bunny than the Australian article.
THE CONSOLATION OF SOAP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I do not hold with those who say
The world is mostly care and fret,
All cold and hard and bleak and grey,
Except where it is wild and wet;
I would not give this world away
For anything that I could get.
The taste of whisky is a snare,
And Cissy’s lips are full of guile,
Young love is mostly heated air,
Or patience schooled to wear a smile;
But some remaining things are fair,
And life for these is well worth while.
Cash is a stuff which cannot last.
It gilds the brightness of an hour,
Its properties are kind and vast
While its brief sweetness is in flower—
Old roses long behind me cast
Were born of its elusive power.
But cash is quite beside my theme,
For none of it is handy here.
Its fitful, evanescent gleam
Shone on a dead and perished year,
And dead cash in my present dream
Is linked with thoughts of huried beer.
With beer and other passing things—
Oysters and young Clotilda’s hair
And midnight gladness made with wings—
I cannot think that I shall wear
E’en in my wild imaginings
A credit balance brave and fair.
Let these things pass. They matter less
Than yesterhopes that faint and fly,
Or Hilda’s dark and errant tress
That once was blown across my eye,
Old sorrows call for no redress
When once the tears they drew are dry.
I have not found relief in prayer
To any very large extent,
Though Wowser folk with zeal declare
It yields a rate of cent, per cent.,
And such a rate when things are fair
May reasonably pay the rent.
The righteous path is set with pain,
The pleasant path in brimstone ends.
Woe to the man who hoards for gain,
And woe to him who freely lends;
Life’s baneful bliss or blissful bane
Upon your point of view depends.
But some things still remain to me
When cash and joy and peace elope,
And all the pains of life agree
To tear the wings right out of hope,
And one of these must always be
The simple morning bliss of soap.
It is a strange and joyous fact
That when the world is bad and wrong
And I myself, to be exact,
Have made the pace a little strong,
Cool suds can soothe a being racked
With memories of midnight song.
The dainty froth about me spread
A kind of absolution brings,
The lather on my tufted head
Awakes my spirit clad with wings,
As if I had been lately fed
On some young god’s imaginings.
Wine mocks me as it did of old
The king who lived in ages rude,
I never yet have found red gold
In lumps sufficient to my mood,
But when the whole dull tale is told,
While soap remains the world is good.
N.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


ARE YOU
E A F
D
9
If you are deaf, or going deaf, you will be glad to
hear of a simple and scientific device which restores
hearing, no matter how Old you are. No mystery or
secrecy about it; we describe it fully, and explain
just how it acts. You use spectacles as sight magni-
fiers, and in the same way you use this sound magni-
fier to hear better. Unlike spectacles, the Wilson
Cominon-sense Ear Dru,ms are invisible and comfort-
able. No one can tell you are wearing them. They
rest the ear nerves by taking the strain off them —the
straiii of trying to hear indistinct sounds. What a
relief to have done with that tiring strain. Being
of the softest Para rubber they cannot be felt,
even when the head rests on a pillow. For the same
reason, a blow on the side of the head will not hurt
the ear. They protect the tender inner parts of the
ear, that are so sensitive, from cold winds, dust, sud-
den and piercing sounds.
So! that you may clearly understand how the Sound
Magnifiers restore hearing, we give an illustration of
one as it lies in the ear. You will notice that the
Sound Magnifier is shaped like a trumpet, and so con-
veys even the faintest sounds right to the natural drum.
Being of the softest rubber, it cannot hurt the ear.
It fits the orifice of the ear
with precision and comfort.
The division that runs
across the mouth is to al-
low the removal and inser-
tion of the Ear-Drum, and
to brace it.
The shape of the Wilson
Ear-Drum has been chosen
after years of experience as
the best adapt-
ed to carry the
faintest sound.
Of course, if
you have lost
the h e a r i ng-
nerve co m-
pletely, or were
born deaf, we,
cannot pretend „ - -
to cure you. Only a miracle could
do that, in spite of some of the
absurd claims made to-day. But
of you can hear the faintest sound,
do not despair. You will never
regret trying the Wilson Ear-
Drums. We have letters to show
you from deaf people in Australia
and New Zealand, who have been
cured, and you can be cured, too. You 'may wear
the Ear-Drums day and night, and take them out
whenever you wish. Children can wear them (we
have special sizes for children from six to twelve).
Even a child can insert and remove them without the
least danger. •
The price is ill (the fee for a doctor’s single
visit). This includes a pair of drums (they are only
sold in pairs), a fine nickel remover, and also an
inserter. After the first pair is bought you may pur-
chase a single drum at any time for Bs., but the
pair you get ,at first will last quite two years. Do
not ask for a trial pair. We do not send them out
on trial, and so they are never secondhand. Use the
Order form below, and the Outfit will be sent you
at once, with the fullest instructions. Don’t delay,
but have the comfort of good hearing as soon as you
can.
fV
ORDER FORM.
STAR NOVELTY CO..
103 Arlington Chambers,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please send me an Outfit containing a pair of
Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums, an Inserter and a
Remover, for which I enclose One Pound.
Name
Address
NOTE. —Send Money Order or Postal Note. If a
Rank Note or Sovereign is sent, you must register it.
"'Ringing for More
■AhUHL. jL^LJ]
/A
Bird’s
Custard
stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess.
Has stood the test of time
Over 70 years' success. A
FELT HATS
WRITE
NOW.
7/6
POST
IfiEL
“THE TRAQUAIR”
Smartest Shape of the Season —an
ideal hat for autumn & winter. Worn by
women & girls everywhere. In black::
white, navy & colors. Sent post lree any-
where on receipt of 7/6 postal note.
MILLER’S
270 Bourke St., Melbourne.
118 Rundle St. Adelaide 195 Pitt St. Sydney
Australian
Established 1849.
Mutual Provident Society.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Princiole.
HAS MONEY TO
LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leaieholl
City or Suburban Prooerties, or 01
Freehold a.nd C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Covernmenx Debentures. Inscribed Stock or Treasury Rills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during: any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors —The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; The
Hon. James Burns, M.L.C.; The Hon. R. J. Black, M L.C. ; The Hon. F. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C. ; Adrian Knox,
Esq., K.C.; Alex. MacOormick, E-q ,M. D. Oeneral Manager and Actuary : Richard Teeee, F.1.A., F.P.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE : 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
oyfCeJMcui
OTHER MODELS
From 7/6 to 40/*
The Accordeon with
The Mellow Tone
Is Just perfection for Song Accompaniments. Oance Music and
Picnics. The Organ-like Tone of these Instruments is attained
*7 the use of Bali Metal Reeds, which are hand-fitted and tuned.
THREE POPULAR MODELS.
THE ORGAN TONED KaLBA
8 Sets Bell Metal Reeds, Price 22/6, Post Free.
THE DANCE KING
I Sets Bell Metai Reeds, Price 3Q/», Post Free.
(THE PICNIC MODEL
t Sets Bell Metal Reeds, Price 18/-, Post Free. ||
FOB A FREE CATALOGUE WRITE TO
ALLAN & Co.,
276 Collins Street, Melbourne,
And also of SENOIGO GEELONG & ADELAIDE
m
a.*?
yfZ' ;
mm
.*V. \,Vv
y, v,•
ii>a
The World-Wide Whi.key.’
nURKE'<S
★ ★ ★ IRISH
%VMISKEy
Exquisitely mellow, delicate in flavour, light and
digestive, with a popularity of over 60 years.
15. &J. Burke, Ltd. (Paid-up Capital £1,100,000. Established 1849),
are by far the largest Shippers of Bottled Whiskey from Dublin.
Leaky Buckets are NEVER filled
Leaks in business are caused by carelessness, thoughtless-
ness, laziness, inaccuracy and temptation.
A National Cash Register stops these leaks and enables
the merchant to get all his profits.
It forces the proprietor and employee to be accurate
and careful. It makes accurate unchangeable records of
every transaction occurring between buyer and seller.
It enables the honest, ambitious assistant to prove his
worth. It fixes responsibility for all concerned —it's a
guardian of morals, of money and of good names.
Your profits depend as much upon your business system
as upon the volume of your sales.
Over one million merchants know from actual experience
that a National Cash Register System will stop mistakes,
stop losses, remove temptation, increase trade, and increase
profits.
It has paid over one million merchants to buy NATIONAL
CASH REGISTERS :: :: It will pay you to investigate
The National Cash Register Co.
of Australasia. Ltd.
335 PITT ST., SYDNEY
343 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE
281 MURRAY ST., PERTH
50 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
117 a RUNDLE ST., ADELAIDE
MACQUARIE ST., HOBART
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices in this list are those at which the
various books are published in London. The
prices in parentheses are those at which the
books are supplied by retail booksellers in Vic-
toria, New South Wales and South Australia.
Postage is extra, at the rate of 2d. per pound
within the Australian Commonwealth.
ACROSS AUSTRALIA. By BALD
WIN SPENCER, C.M.G., M.A.,
F.R.S., Professor of Biology in Mel-
bourne University, and F. J.
GILLEN, Special Magistrate and
Sub-Protector of Aborigines for South
Australia. With colored and other
illustrations an rl Af aps. In 2 vols.,
Bvo, 21s. net. (255.)
Pall Mall Gazette. —“Professor Spencer
and Mr. Gillen have written a wont whu;.. a
classic of its kind, and will live to find a place
beside the travel-books of Darwin, Wallace and
Bates, and other great writers who have pen-
pictured the strange places and peoples of the
earth.” __
THE BELIEF IN IMMORTALITY
AND THE WORSHIP OF THE
DEAD. By J. G. FRAZER, D.C.L..
LL.D. Litt.D. Vol I. The Belief
Among the Aborigines of Australia,
the Torres Straits Islands, New
Guinea and Melanesia. Bvo. 10s.
net. (125.)
The Observer. —“Dr. Frazer has arranged the
mass of detail from which he has had to draw
with a skill and judgment which in the work
of another man would be surprising, and he
tells each story with the point and clarity of an
artist, so that, apart from the book’s high
mission, it could be read as a storehouse of
good tales.”
PRINCIPLES OF AUSTRALIAN
AGRICULTURE. By W. CATTON
GRASBY, F.L.S., Lecturer in Agri-
culture and Fruit Growing, Perth
Technical Schol; Commissioner for
South Australian Government to Re-
port on Fruitgrowing Industries of
the Mediterranean, etc. Fully illus-
trated. Crown Bvo, 4s. 6d.
The British Australasian.— “ Mr. Grasby
has carried out the work he has here under-
taken with entire success. His work is a
model of what such a text-book should be.
Eminently practical in its suggestions, it pos-
sesses a practicality due not merely to empiri-
cal experience, but resting on a solid scientific
basis, and buttressed with the result of actual
tests.”
THE ODD FARMHOUSE. Bv the
ODD FARMWIFE. Crown Bvo. 6s.
The Morning Post. —“We leave this well-
assorted couple, A. and his farm wife, in their
farmstead with regret. Their sensitive observa-
tion is touched with humor and fastidiousness,
and this all helps to make the book an attrac-
tive one.
GITANJALT (Sons? Offerings).—
By RABINDRANATH TAGORE.
A Collection of Prose Translations
made by the Author from the original
Bengali. Crown Bvo, 4s. 6d. net.
(ss. 6d.)
The Globe. —“These are hot poems to be
read hastily or carelessly; they demand a cer-
tain surrender if their value is to be under-
stood. Perhaps all really great work does. Mr.
Ernest Rhys has described the ‘Gitaniali’ as ‘a
spiritual revelation.’ The expression is no whit
too strong, and with it we entirely associate
ourselves.”
THE BUSINESS MAN’S TRADE &
INDUSTRIAL MAP OF THE
WORLD. Edited by BEN H.
MORGAN, F.R.S.S., F.R.C.1., Trade
Commissioner to Australia and New
Zealand, 1908. Size, 60 by
inches. Cloth and Spring Roller,
50s. net. (605.) Cloth, Mahogany
Rollers and Varnished, 31s. net.
(375. 6d.) Cloth, to fold in Box
Case, 21s. net. (255.) Cloth Rol-
lers and Varnished, 21s. net. (255.)
A MODERN DICTIONARY OF THE
ENGLISH LANGUAGE. With
Australasian Supplement. Crown
Bvo, 2s. The Dictionary contains
804 pages, and includes 48,719 words ;
1949 Phrases; 750 Abbreviations;
895 Foreign Words and Phrases—a
total of 52.313 entries.
COLONIAL LIBRARY
NEW VOLS.
Paper 2s. 6d. each ; Cloth, 3s. 6d. each.
627 TRANS-HIMALAYA: Discover-
ies and Adventures in Tibet. By
SVEN HEDIN. Vol. 111. With Il-
lustrations.
A further instalment of Dr. Sven Hedin’s
account of his latest great journey. The two
earlier volumes were highly praised and widely
read, so that a hearty welcome may be antici-
pated for this continuation of thie explorer’s
remarkable narrative.
597 THE INSIDE OF THE CUP.
By WINSTON CHURCHILL, Au-
thor of “Richard Carvel,” etc.
Mr. Churchill’s new story is of the present
day, and introduces to the reader certain tvpical
society people. The movement of the plot is
started by the pastor of a wealthy church
refusing to perform the wedding ceremony for
a divorced woman, a member of one of the
richest families in his congregation.
623 LORE OF PROSERPINE. By
MAURICE HEWLETT, Author of
“The Forest Lovers,” etc.
Mr. Hewlett’s new book may be (described as
a work on the supernatural. It is in the form
of a series of essays, the interest of which is
greatly increased by the fact that they are cast
in an autobiographical vein.
626 CHANCE THE PIPER. By
AGNES and EGERTON CASTLE,
Authors of “The Secret Orchard,”
etc.
624 THE MATING OF LYDIA. By
Mrs. HUMPHRY WARD, Author of
“Robert Elsmere,” etc.
Times, — “The fact that her characters are
touched to larger and finer issues than they
dream of gives Mrs. Ward’s book a spacious-
ness and grandeur which is very uncommon in
any fiction.”
A Complete Catalogue of Macmillan’s Colonial
Library will be sent on application.
MACMILLAN SCO. LTD.
LONDON and MELBOURNE.


The BEST HODSE for all SMOKERS’ REQUISITES
SMOKE,
SUNOL
a
s
The
Perfect
Pipe
Tobacco.
Highest Grade
Virginian.
Awarded Four
Gold Medals.
DARK OR
LIGHT.
In Plug or Cut.
61-
per lb,
Post
Free.
fdh
THE BEST PIPES
OBTAINABLE.
They Surpass all others in QUALITY, FINISH,
■ DESICN and WORKMANSHIP.
SNI
Made from the Finest Quality Selected Old Briar
Root, with Superior Hand-Out Para Vulcanite
Mouthpieces.
Extra Heavy Sterling Silver Mounts.
IN ALL THE LEADING SHAPES
Price O /
b^o/
each
(Post Free).
A DELIGHTFUL S FASCINATING Cigarette.
/T
Jhree Witches
VIRGINIA
u
ft
Co
a
S)
&
n ;
m 3
V f.
T\
ORRIS
&sonsL t p
A LONDON E.
H
I
G
H
E
S
T
G
R
A
D
E
p
E j
R
F
E
C
T
L
Y
M
A
D
E
Made from Selected Sun Ripe Virginian Tobacco.
They possess a Fragrance of Unique Excellence.
Smoked by Connoisseurs Everywhere.
Price
per 100,
Post Free.
Mick Simmons Ltd.
Head Depot: HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches—City, Suburbs
and Newcastle
PPM!
,X?T-VviS
»^®onfc
golden KEY"
Cigars de Luxe
(made in England).
Irresistibly Appeal to
all Connoisseurs
because of their
Exquisite Flavor
and
Delicate Aroma
Two Strengths-
MILD and MEDIUM.
Packed in KEAVY CEDAR
PRESENTATION CABINETS,
containing 50 Cigars,
22/6
PO’ST
FREE.
Try Sample Lot
of 5 Cigars,
packed in Cedar
2,6
Box
Post Free.
Save “GOLDEN KEY”
Bands for Prizes.
PUMPS WATER
DAY AND NIGHT
AUTOMATICALLY.
GET OUR FREE TRIAL
OFFER.
Low in first cost, easy to instal, no expense to operate, any
capacity desired for Country Homes, Farms, Dairies,
Gardens, Irrigation, Town Plants, Railroad Tanks, etc.
RIFE HYDRAULIC RAMS
RAISE WATER 30 FEET for EVERY FOOT OF FALL.
Satisfaction Guaranteed. Over 7000 in use.
If there is a stream, spring or pond within a mile—
WRITE FOR FREE PLANS and BOOK.
2613 Trinity Bldg. RIFE ENGINE CO.
New York.
HAVE REGARD TO YOUR
BEST INTERESTS BY APPOINTING
The Permanent Trustee Company
of New South Wales Ltd.
Executors, Trustees, Administrators, Agents, etc.
AMPLE SECURITY ASSURED. TRUST ACCOUNTS ALWAYS OPEN TO INSPECTION.
RESERVES EXCEED THE PAID-UP CAPITAL.
ESTATES AND PROPERTIES EFFICIENTLY MANAGED.
every description of trustee work undertaken.
17 O’CONNELL. STREET, SYDNEY.
FULL DETAILS ON APPLICATION.
A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager. [1
WILL ANDRADE for MAGIC.
Dr. Thomas Faulkner’s
BOOK OF NATURE
and ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE,
3/6.
New 1912 Edition,
Enlarged, 32 Extra
Plates, illustrating
Female Anatomy,
handsome Cloth Cover,
51“ P°st Free.
Write for Descriptive
Circular of Contents,
post free anywhere.
Superb Virility of Man-
hood, by Bernard Mac-
fadden; simple home
methods for curing
weaknesses of men, 5/4 ;
Macfadden’s Sweethearts
for Life; life’s greatest
pleasure secured by ob-
serving highest human
instincts, 5/4; Macfad-
den’s Building Vital
Power, 5/4; Health,
Beauty, Sexuality, 5/4 ;
Strength from Eating,
5/4 ; Macfadden’s Devel-
oping Muscular Power,
5/4; Science of Muscu-
lar Development, 5/4;
Superb Womanhood,
5/4 ; Macfadden’s Physi-
cal Culture v. Consump-
tion, and Value of Air in
Strength-building, com-
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
Marvellously Simple ! Simply Marvellous
<
Multiplying and Van-
ishing Billiard Balls.
Produced from no-
where, appearing at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Com-
plete with Full In-
structions (enabling
the merest amateur
to perform it), 1/6;
posted, 2/-
T w o - from -Five
Card Trick. Another
startler, introducing
something quite new
in magic. Price 6d.;
post free, Bd.
HIE ABOVE iwo lricks (wnicn require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post free any-
where, with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic 2/6
, plete, 2/2. AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT. Mention The Buli.etin
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do
201 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
Catalogues
FREE.
fd
We manufacture Engines, Boilers, Traction
Engines, Saw Mills, Horse Powers, Plows,
Harrows, Cultivators, Corn Planters,
Cotton Planters, Grain Drills, Potato
Diggers, Corn Shellers, Store Trucks, etc.
Write for Free Illustrated Catalogues.
Correspondence in all languages.
Cable Address : “ FENANKLE,” New York.
FARQUHAR’S
Agricultural Machines
are the most economical because the first cost is
the only cost, and as quality is the prime factor
in their construction they give the longest and
best service, and eventually prove themselves
the least expensive.
i
k
A. B. & GO.,
Cotton Exchange Building,
NEW YORK, U.S.A.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHER
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving's, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. How to Gut Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, os 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, ls3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is 3d. Parlor Tricks and
Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, Is 2d. All The
Bulletin series. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales, Is 3d.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks' with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is 6d.
%
1
£
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR •• PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pastes.
IT IS I REE I ROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
N ature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
Sana questions that occur to the minds of young- and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived,
i SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
< A\rv'°^m ered this - reat work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
S*“BOOKSELLER TO THE. COMMONWEALTH.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CAIIDS-LOVE
HOLINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River 6s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter,’ Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easj-, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
58 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying- more.
Compare my prices with others ana
save your cash. I*- Established 35 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
* • • - .-iti *
Cheap Book Depot—
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS A DVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OE ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine.
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d post. Dr. Milford s Mid-
wipe’s Handbook, 93 practical illustrations, ts
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy,
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions op TH * '
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 3d. .
History Court op England, Is 3d post, ho
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, d>
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, hey to
Decrees, New Edition, Is posted. \ Esr „/
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, is Sap
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to R*ad
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chbvasse s Advice to
Wipe, 3s 6d posted. Wonderpul Budoe •
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d P OB j'
Bennarr Macpadden’s Works, all at 5s P „
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers ok
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wipes Ha N
is 2d posted. Fruitsop Philosophy, Is post.
Recitations and Readings, Is Nervous
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. WBBST I^? lather
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 ulus., . ,
i.ound, my .price, 15s post paid (why pay
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, is • sii
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moor* •
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, !016 ■ c- ,
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets op Ola coiu .
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words p ° in e,
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age or
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE W-v*


COUGH—COUGH.
Coughing His Life Away.
Nine-tenths of the diseases which to-day afflict the human race have their rise
in a common, ordinary little cold. The cold comes, and is neglected. It moves
down from nose to throat, from throat to bronchial tubes and lungs, and if it is
not checked there, may develop into something serious. Dr. Sheldon’s New
Discovery will quickly relieve and eventually cure the most obstinate cold or
cough, and will prevent all the dangerous after effects of Lung and Throat
diseases.
COUGHING DAY AND NIGHT.
The Sheldon Drug Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Dear Sirs,—For three or four years I was very
ill. During this time, not for a single hour did
I feel myself. My throat was always itching
and tickling. I was coughing all day and all
night. It was a dry, hacking cough, and I
could cough up nothing. My breathing was
strained and heavy, and people said I was going
into consumption fast. I looked hollow-cheeked
and haggard, and lost considerable weight.
All day long while at work I felt weary and
depressed, and when I came home of an evening
I would have to go straight to bed. My breath-
ing was often so bad I could hardly speak.
Sometimes I was laid up for days at a time.
Chemists and doctors’ medicine did me no
good, and I took them by the gallon. As the
days went on I grew worse and worse. The
coughing shook me to pieces, and gave me bad
headaches. One day when I was lying in bed,
feeling very bad, I read about Dr. Sheldon’s
New Discovery. I sent for a bottle, and
obtained an almost immediate benefit. It
loosened the cough so that I could get rid of
the phlegm. The itching in the throat got less
and less. I took five bottles in all during a
(
N
period of about three weeks, and by that time was absolutely cured of every sign or symptom
of my cough, and began to put on weight rapidly. I have never been ill since. Considering I
was ill for four years, to get cured in three weeks seems to me remarkably quick work.
Yours faithfully,
108 Regent Street, Camperdown, Sydney.
(Signed) A. W. COLLING.
Sti3U3JJnS U3INIM 01 HOOS \L
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery for Coughs and Colds is an unequalled prepara-
tion for the immediate relief of all diseases of the Throat, Bronchial Tubes and
Lungs, including Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs, Colds, Asthma, Quinsy, Sore
Throat, Hoarseness, Difficult Respiration, and pains in the Chest. When used
according to directions is a sure preventive of Pneumonia and Consumption.
Every Bottle Guaranteed. Price, 1/6 and 3/-; Hospital size, 5/-. If not
obtainable locally will be sent Post Free upon the receipt of price by the Sheldon
Drug Co., Ltd., 15 O’Connell Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
D« SHELDONS
Discovery
I
OUGHS
AND
OLDS
THE BEST STORIES written in Australia appear in THE
LONE HAND each month. Price Sixpence.
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co, Ltd.,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial
OFFICES : 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HOLLOWAY’S
Pills Ointment
A TRIAL of HOLLOWAY'S PILLS has meant
The Dawning Brighter Day
to many a sufferer from liver, kidney and stomach
troubles. For over three-score years and ten they
have been supreme in all cases of biliousness,
headache, indigestion, depression and other com-
plaints which usually arise from constipation.
You should also use HOLLOWAY'S OINT-
MENT, which possesses remarkable healing
virtues in cases of skin affections and sores,
rheumatism, lumbago, sciatica, etc. See to
it that you always have a box and pot handy*
To be obtained from all Chemists, Stores,
etc.
Manufactured only at
113 SOUTHWARK ST. (late 78 New Oxford St.), LONDON, S.C.
Black Orchard.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BLACK ORCHARD was a hard, hard
uian ;
Yon rook that towers apart
Was not more hard, nor cold, imr grim
Than was Black Orchard's heart.
He built yon house that stands above
Within the drooping wood ;
Its mortar was the hearts of men
Made wet with tears and blood.
A convict girl he made his wife—
-1 Lis wife in all but name;
Yet, ever at his hot brute-touch,
She felt the scarlet shame.
Boor, sweet and young, she tripped and
plunged—
Dragged downward by her charms—
Down, hurtling down, until she reached
The Hell of Orchard’s arms.
Old gossips still recall her grace—
This Alice long years dead ;
They say her hair was fine-spun gold,
Her small mouth coral-red.
Now God had given Orchard eyes—
Dark eyes as deep as night—
To mark, to see, to feast upon
His lavishment of light.
Yet, when the moon’s gold glamor lay
On flower and blade and tree,
For all the beauty that he saw
The owl saw more than he.
lie saw no glory in the stars
That hosted rank on rank,
But stroked the slim white felon-girl,
Or diced and cursed and drank.
Now, God had given Orchard eyes
To pity human woes,
l r et wounds, red gushing, were to him
More sweet than any rose.
He made a scoff of ailing Youth,
A mock of Age forlorn,
And where Grief wept its futile tears
His fine eyes flashed with scorn.
Now God had given Orchard eyes
That he might see and love —
Not see and hate —and day and night
God watched him from above.
He saw him thrust the poor aside;
He saw how gaunt Distress
Betwixt pale Hunger and hot Thirst
Limped by him pitiless.
He heard the moans and groans of men
Beneath Black Orchard’s rod.
And forthwith then red anger filled
The quiet eyes of God.
11.
From Morpeth town to Orchard’s Ilill,
It is a long day's ride—
As those wise souls will bear me out
Who know the Hunter-side.
From Morpeth town Black Orchard rode,
And spared not whip nor spur;
His mind was on the felon-girl,
And all his thoughts of her.
His blood was hot, his heart was hot —
How leadenly time pressed—
A fortnight and a day since he
Had ta’en her to his breast!
From Morpeth town to Orchard’s Hill
It is a winsome way,
With river view and song of bird,
And shine and shade at play.
With whip and spur and thresh of rein,
Not sparing hoof nor hide,
Black Orchard rode —yet not alone;
God’s anger rode beside.
And thus it was ere yet the sun
Had climbed the morning skies —
A mist, a clouding mist arose,
And crawled about his eyes.
The skies grew black, a scowling black —
A strange, oppressing hue;
And sable as a hearse’s plumes
The tufted wire-grass grew.
And thus it was ere yet the sun
Stood middle-high at noon—
Around the man there swirled and swam
The darkness of a swoon.
Beyond the hills of Lochinvar.
As hot-of-hoof he rode.
The Cockpit like the Nether Pit,
A well of darkness showed.
And thus it was ere day was done
The dark of night began.
Betwixt black trees and black-hued mutts
A blackened river ran.
Now God had given Orchard eyes,
Who used the gift not well :
Wherefore God’s anger sought the man,
And thus these things befell.
111.
The lamps were lit at Orchard’s Hill,
The felon’s face showed fair —
They say that night a dark red rose
Was bedded in her hair.
And ever as she smiled and smiled,
Her hand in hatred pressed
A rough, horn-hafted hunting-knife
That lay within her breast.
To-night she would have recompense
Yea. payment full and sweet
For all her shame —a hidden thrust,
A slain brute at her feet.
At length she heard Black Orchard’s horse —
The sound she sought—yet feared :
His homing hoofs, like her heart-beats,
Grew louder as he neared.
As nigh, and nigher, drew the horse,
Her hatred grew athirst:
And in the stockade on the hill
The convicts crouched and cursed.
They say he blundered down the hall
With such an oath as blights ;
And though three tall, white candles burned
Black Orchard called for lights.
The felon watched him, mute and still
The blade beneath her dress;
His great eyes rolling in his head
Were ebon —lustreless.
“Lights, drab; lights, weneh, a thousand
lights,
’Tis dark, death-dark !” and thus —■
The while the felon felt her blade —
His speech burst blasphemous.
They say that when the truth grew clear
He did not sigh nor weep,
But staggered, stumbled, sagged and sank
A sick and soundless heftp.
Numbed, dumb and broken, stricken blind,
He lay death-pale and still;
For God had given Orchard eyes,
And he had used them ill.
Her sweet, shamed shape was white and
slim,
Her small mouth coral red;
She knelt, forgetful of all else,
And stroked Black Orchard’s head.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
"Blow Anderson!”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I NEVER did like Anderson, although
his wife and mine were great
friends. He had been my next-door
neighbor for six months, but as he travelled
the Northern Rivers for a softgoods firm,
he was only at home for a week-end every
month or so, and then he looked so smug
and satisfied and clean shaved that he got
on my nerves. He used to lounge on to his
front verandah about mid-day Sunday, say
“How do, ol’ man?” and pass me one of his
fat cigars. I felt like throwing it at him,
although cigars are things I’m fond of and
can’t afford.
His wife was not much younger than
mine, but she was better preserved. He
didn’t earn any more than I did, but there
was only himself and her to spend it on,
while we had a houseful.
Funny things, women! Mrs. Anderson
used to borrow our three youngest, and
would sit for hours nursing the baby, and
telling my wife what a lucky woman she
was.
Did I say the Andersons kept a girl? We
didn’t, and neither did they; but a proces-
sion of girls used to pass through the Ander-
sonian menage.
I always send the wife to the country for
two or three weeks once a year, and when
the usual holiday came round Mrs. Ander-
son went with her.
Anderson was up on the Rivers. I fed
the fowls and the dog daily, breakfasted
anyhow, looked into a theatre or a picture
show of an evening, and drifted home to-
wards midnight. It was good fun for the
first week or so ; then it began to pall, and
one Friday night I was just stepping on to
the verandah when a lady rose up out of the
shadow and said, “Oh! aren’t you Mr.
Seivers?”
She was a young woman, I could tell that
by her voice and her figure, and when she
held up her face to the moonlight I saw
that she was pretty. “I’m Mrs. Anderson’s
maid,” she said. “She sent me down to get
some —something, and—l went to a picture
show and I —l lost the key and I’ve missed
the train, and” —there was a suspicion of a
sob in her voice—“and 1 don’t know what
to do.”
Neither did I.
“Where did you lose the key?”
“He took it home in his pocket.”
We both laughed—especially me. But
what was I to do with her?
A respectable married man —grass wid-
ower—five and thirty—with a homeless
young woman on his verandah close on to
midnight. We sat down on the meter-box to
consider the question.
“Can’t you ring him up and get him to
bring back the key?”
She shook her head. I hated to suggest
that she didn’t know his address; but when
a woman has a certain sort of mouth—well,
far be it from me to be the first to cast a
stone.
“I am not expected back until to-morrow,”
she said, and the toe of her boot tapped
timidly on the verandah post. “But I
can’t go back without the —the something.”
“No! of course not!” It was a non-
committal reply, but I could think of nothing
else at the time.
“Would—wouldn’t any of your keys open
the door?” she hazarded.
“Just what I was wondering,” I ex-
claimed, jumping to my feet. “Let’s try!”
My Yale was hopeless. I knew it would
be. but it was quite pleasant trying to
break into somebody else’s house, and we
got quite giggly over it. She suggested that
I try the other door, so we went into our
place and I collected all the keys I could
find, but none of them worked. Their back
door had its own key in it, and that gave her
an idea.
You never did see such a girl for ideas ;
she was real smart. She broke the bath-
room window so cleverly with a sheet of
treacle-smeared brown paper that it was
quite a pleasure to hold her on the step-
ladder. Then I climbed through and opened
the back door and we both went inside.
Almost the first thing we found was some
wine in the bottom of the sideboard. It was
good wine.
The gas was lit and she was more than
merely pretty. Perhaps it was the nature
of our adventure, or the nature of Ander-
son’s wine, or the early morning air—l
don't know; but I felt quite a kid. So
did she.
She got her —something (it was fairly
heavy and filled a small carry-all, but I
didn’t see what it was). A little before
daylight she kissed me good-bye and I
dodged into my own place.
* * * *
Next day Anderson came home and kicked
up a fuss. The place had been burgled, and
he thought I should know something about
it, because my step-ladder was leaning
against their broken bathroom window.
But I knew nothing. I never did like
Anderson, anyhow.
D. H. SOUTER.


INTER ECZm
HUSBAND, WIFE AND CHILDREN COVERED—NEARLYDaiVEN
CRAZY WITH IRRITATION—2 YEARS’ MISERY ENDED. "
WHAT person, seeing the Towers family for the
first time, and noting their clean, healthy
skins, would think that a short time ago
father, mother and children were all ravaged by
that dreaded disease, eczema? But, thanks to the
excellent disease-destroying powers of Zam-Buk,
they all now enjoy perfect skin health. Speaking
of their terrible experience, Mrs. Elizabeth Towers,
2 Boyd Street, Richmond, Melbourne, Vic., says:
“We came from the country to reside in the town,
and the different climate and the great change in
diet considerably upset all our family. The conse-
quence was that we all broke out in a nasty rash.
This rash developed into terrible eczema. Myself,
husband, and children were all attacked by this
awful disease. 1 was covered with it almost from
head to foot, and felt as if 1 could tear myself to
pieces. The torture from the itching was almost
unbearable. All of us were afflicted in the same
way; not one of us could get any sleep
at night. I felt like going mad, the
irritation was so dread lul, and I was
much worse than the others. Not one
of us could keep our hands off the
affected parts. The want of sleep af-
fected us all. and I was nearly half
dead.
“A doctor gave me a sleeping draught,
which brought me a brief respite from
all the agony of irritation in blissful
oblivion. My husband became very
bad, and it was pitiful to see him. For
weeks and weeks he was laid up, unable
to work, and the children could hardly
walk, ffe attended the hospital, but
although they tried many things,
nothing gave us the least relief, and we
became worse if anything.
' Ur.
find
Urs.
Touien
Did
lumiij.
ATT/
W#
mm
My eldest boy was practically smoth-
ered in disease. A pin’s point could not
be placed between the affected spots.
We despaired of ever being well again.
For two years were we tortured and we
never thought the misery of it would
cease. When things seemed at their
worst, we read of some remarkable cures ,
of eczema by Zam-Buk Balm and Zam-
Buk Soap. We resolved to try this
treatment, purchased a supply, and all commenced it. In a
short time all of us were delighted to notice a wonderful dif-
ference. The irritation was ended and the soothing and healing
action of both the Balm and the Soap were felt. The inflam-
mation was drawn to a head, and all bad matter expelled. As
we persevered with the Zam-Buk treatment, so we improved.
The sores were healed, we were able to sleep at night, and soon
were completely freed from a terrible disease. Now we all
possess fine, healthy skins, which are w-onderfully clear and
without spot or blemish. Zam-Buk is truly a wonderful balm.”
Zam-Buk is a healer that can
always be depended upon tor
reliability and efficiency. There
is nothing to surpass Zam-
Buk for eczema, ringworm,
sore hands, face spots, poisoned
wounds, burns, scalds, etc.
Sold by all chemists and
stores at 1/6 or 3/6 per not.
Post free at same prices from
The Zam-Buk Co., 39 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
Bilk
am
SOOTHES AND HEALS,
Colic, Diarrhoea, and Dysentery
Are diseases that require immediate attention. In almost every neighbourhood
someone has died from these diseases before medicine could be procured or a
physician summoned.
Those who rely upon physicians often find that they are away from home when
most needed.
Every family, and especially those who reside in the back blocks, should keep
at hand a bottle of Chamoerlain’s Colic & Diarrhoea Remedy.
No physician can prescribe a better medicine for the purpose for which it is
intended. It is invaluable for both children and adults.
w
4
\
-v
IsJg
n
(in
V©
'S
Night coughs are easily cured if
you only have the right remedy at
hand. The best thing is to always
be prepared with a bottle of Cham-
berlain’s Cough Remedy. A dose
or two will relieve you so you can
have a good night’s rest and get up
fit for work in the morning.
4 .
COUGH REMEDY.
SIGNED ARTICLES.
A MODERN ROMANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
DICK REDMAYNE (Castle Hill, Vic-
toria Avenue, Potts Point) care-
fully selected a cigar, sniffed at it,
seemed pleased, and then quite suddenly
shied it into the gutter. A man, Bill Hicks
(No. 6, Scuffam’s
Lane, Woolloomoo-
loo), tore across the
square and annexed
the tobacco ; his de-
light was manifest,
and the chirruping
.loise he made drew
the attention of a
lady, Mrs. Archibald
Whacktripe (Home
Cottage, Wriggley-
road, Paddington),
who was seated with
a friend, Major-Gen-
eral Inkypants
(Mount Beaver, Can-
nister-street, Summer
Hill) at afternoon
tea on a near-by
balcony.
“Damn my eyes, Madam!” said Major-
General Inkypants (Mount Beaver, Can-
nister-street, Summer Hill) to Mrs. Archi-
bald Whacktripe (Home Cottage, Wriggley-
road, Paddington), “Damn my eyes, Madam,
if that ain’t my old pal Dick Redmayne
(Castle Hill, Victoria Avenue, Potts Point),
but who the devil (c/o Satan, Top Grid,
Hades) is that other fellow?”
“That other fellow whom you see standing
by Mr. Redmayne (Castle Hill, Victoria
Avenue, Potts Point,)” replied Mrs. Archibald
Whacktripe (Home Cottage, Wriggley-road,
Paddington) to Major-General Inkypants
(Mount Beaver, Cannister-street, Summer
Hill), “is Bill Hicks (No. 6 Scuffam's-lane,
Woolloomooloo).”
“Then, by God. Madam !” exclaimed
Major-General Inkypants (Mount Beaver,
Cannister-street, Summer Hill) to Mrs.
Archibald Whacktripe (Home Cottage,
Wriggley-road, Paddington), “if I catch Bill
Hicks (No. U Scuff am’s-lane, Woolloo-
mooloo) as sure as my name’s Major-
General Inkypants (Mount Beaver, Cannis”
[To be continued .]
P. PALCOT.
The Rat House, Callan Park.
A Holiday for Howard.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HOWARD HAUGHTON was the son
of his parents, who dwelt in dear
old England, and derived a sure in-
come from the personal exertions of others.
The son of his parents, Howard lived on an
income—a small one —derived from the per-
sonal exertions of his parents in signing
cheques every quarter.
In order to conserve the family interests,
Howard had adopted Australia as his home,
and married a hard-working Australian girl,
who planned out his expenditure for him,
and made his three sovereigns a week go a
long way.
Howard had no bad habits, except that he
smoked four cigarettes a day and refused to
work.
After three years of married bliss, during
which Helen Haughton looked after her hus-
band like a mother, and lovingly protected
him from hard toil and dishwashing, she
found it necessary to take a short holiday
under doctor’s orders. She went away with
two-year-old Charles Howard Haughton, and
left Howard to keep the house going. It
was something of a holiday for Howard, for
it relieved him of the necessity for “mind-
ing” young Charles.
In a fortnight, Helen returned. Howard
met her at the station, with an eighteen-
penny cab, and as they presently entered the
front gate of their lovely little rose-
embowered home, Helen’s heart leapt with
housewifely joy.
Howard opened the door, and a sudden up-
roar came from within.
“Bimm-m-m! Bimm-m-m!”
A swarm of flies hovered in the hall.
“Flies!” explained Howard, waving his
stout hand. “It’s the hot weather, y’ know.”
Helen sniffed suspiciously.
“But” she began.
Howard hustled her into the bedroom, and
Charles went also.
“Take off your hat,” he urged, “and I’ll
get you a cup o’ tea.”
She sat on the edge of the bed, still snif-
fing, and took off her hat. Almost immedi-
ately, leaving Charles alone with the pink
flowers of her headwear, to his considerable
interest, she came out again and followed
the buzz-trail. It led her to the kitchen.
Howard was there on his knees, burrowing in
a box of straw, with his coat off and his shirt-
sleeves rolled up.
“I’m getting out some cups,” lie said.
“Those are all dirty,” indicating the kitchen-
table. “I had to get some new ones.”
Helen examined the table, with care,
through the thick veil of flies which swarmed
thereon. It was piled from end to end with
unwashed crockery.
“The sink”
“Oh, the sink ” murmured Helen, in a
smothered voice, breathing through her hand-
kerchief.
“Well,” apologised Howard. “I had to
scrape the scraps off the dishes, you know,
an’ the tea-leaves had to go somewhere.”
“But,” Helen mumbled, forkng out of the
sink a huge and pestilential mass of ancient
meat, “wosh thish?” She spoke thickly
through her handkerchief.
Howard went out to the shed, and came
back with the phenyle bottle.
“I used a good deal o’ this,” he announced,
pourinsr. “I got a leg o’ mutton just after
you left. It lasted me for quite a long time
—four days—and then I got tired of it.”
Helen rushed for the back verandah, and
stood out in the open air for awhile. Howard,
now in the dining-room, clattered his tea-
cups.
Another swarm of flies, packed closely
about the wash-house door, attracted the
early notice of the returned housewife.
“Howard!” she breathed, in tones of faint
protest, making for the dreadful point of
attraction.
Howard heard, and followed.
Her examination was short. She came
out to breathe, gasping.
“A cat!” she groaned, “in the wash-
house !”
“Yes,” agreed Howard, mildly. “It was
run over by the baker out in front hern, ari’
I brought it in. Sufferin’, y’ know. I did
all I could for it.”
“When?” demanded Helen, in a dreadful
voice.
“What —er —yesterdav week. I did all T
could for it. An’ we haven’t got a shovel.
Anyhow,” drawing himself up, “I can’t dig.
I missed the dust-chap, yesterday. T ast
time he used language, you might remember,
because I wouldn’t take the box to the
gate. Yes, it’s the same singlet. Yes, I
cut the sleeves off. They got dir tv doinv —
er —doing the housework... .No, I know I
haven’t. I got ’em wet in the garden, one
dav. Couldn’t wear ’em wet, could I? Be-
sides, I’ve got boots 0n.... I know. I
know. I s’pose we’ll have to vet a woman in
to clean un, and wash, and all that. But —
well, you had your holiday, didn’chou? I
bad mine. . . .No, nobody called but Mr. Ven-
ables. Yes. I kept all the doors shut, and
there was alwavs plenty of phenyle.. . .What
could I do? Yes, he asked me why I hadn’t
been at church. I said you were away, an' 1
—well, me boots weren’t polished, and I
hadn’t time, what with sretting me own
meals and doing—ah—doing the blessed
housework. Ho only staved a few minutes.
No. he wouldn’t take tea: said he didn’t
feel very w°H NO! I’d have noticed it.
wouldn’t T, if be had?. . . .Oh. blow all tb°se
ouestions ! Come an’, have some tea. The
kettle’s boiling. .. .New cups. I got an-
other dozen yesterday. No clean ones,
know. Come on !”
Howard led the way into the dining-room
and afternoon tea was served.
FRANK HENTY
Drawing the Line.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE Garb of Old Caul covereth a mill
titude of sins.
There’s a silver-mounted sporran of
slightly moulted goat-hair reduced to
12s. 6d. in a Sydney pawnshop, but that
doesn’t argue that the Garb is extinct, or
fallen into desuetude, as we say in the
leaders.
No. Two specimens of the Garb, each
wearing a fairly suitable human being in-
side and a set of bagpipes, lately entered a
township railway station, where the nobility
and gentry of the district were following
their usual prudent practice of being three-
quarters of an hour early rather than three
seconds late.
The newer lot of Garb looked somewhat
ashamed of the fact that the man it owned
had forgotten to make up his knees after be
had shed the uncouth garment that the
Sassenach vainly tries to bind on Scotia’s
sons. He wore the white knees of a trou-
sered life.
He was also new to the “bugpipe,” as
Victor McHugo so prettily calls it. So
what does his pal say to him, but that, while
they waited for the train, he (the speaker)
might as well teach the young idea how to
toot. Carried.
With that they both began a Ilieland
strut up and down the platform, the Cork o’
the North performing a series of “repeat
after me” cadenzas for the young rooster to
follow. He followed at something like two
miles and a distance.
We all know the charm of the pipes, but
this was hardly equal to the usual effect.
The “tutches of sweet harmonie,” as Shak-
speare wrote before he learned how to spell,
were gratefully received by the public, but
with rather less than the usual applause.
The village policeman looked on, soothed
by the music, or paralysed.
On and on played these great-grandsons
of the countrymen of William Wallace, John
Knox and Harry Lauder. At least, there is
some reason to believe that one of them was
a great-grandson of a Scottish native.
Then their train came in, and they dulv
went out.
Much as a small bird might start to sing
quietly to itself after hearing a larger one,
a young rabbiter pulled out a mouth-organ
and began, with a good deal of skill, on an
air from “Dorothy.”
The village J. Hop leapt from his trance.
“Here, none o’ that,” he said. “We can’t
have you making a noise on this station.”
NORMAN LILLEY.


: tmR
i
(MORSE)
CHAIN DRIVES
I
For all types of high-speed
power transmission.
Positive in Action
Siient in Operation
Unrivalled in Efficiency.
Because their patented feature,
The Rocker Joint,
eliminates the friction due to
sliding surfaces. Consequently
you have
Full Power
Continuous Power
Satisfactory Power.
Full Particulars from
The Westinghoas<
&±"l A ? ent r H ° : " 18S & Church > Brisbane.
New Zealand Agents—Philips & Pike, Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N.S. WALES. B
THE STIRLING WATER TUBE BOILER
m
FOR
High Efficiency
AND
Perfect Safety.
We carry Boilers in Stock for Immediate
Delivery, and Quote for Erection
and Brickwork.
We are Sole Agents, and Contract for
Complete Power Plants with Guar-
anteed Results.
ALSO AGENTS FOR—
Nichols Boiler Feed Pumps, Bolinder Woodworking Machinery,
Dewrance Steam Valves.
Write us for our Complete Catalogue of Engineers’ Supplies,
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
TfccMETZ- 22 at £l*s Costs Little to Maintain
?t°^i e br ai i it couldu ’, t be done - B ut here it is—a thoroughly practical Car
for £lBo, that cuts the upkeep down to a very low level. The is
the result of organised effort on a large scale. Thousands of thenT are
made every year. Result: High Efficiency and Low Cost.
The M etz-22 will run up to fifty miles per hour—taking big hills on top speed
without any hitches or breaks.. It runs over thirty miles to the gallon P and
will do from 8000 to 10,000 miles on the same tyres. ’
Why pay three or four times the price for a car that will not servo
any better? Why saddle yourself with a heavy upkeep cost when a Metz-22
will run so economically? £lB5 is the price. And you’ll kSow it must be
a good-looking car when we tell you that 33J % of the cars we sell are bought
by medical men, to whom appearance is a strong factor. S
We are ready to show the at work—anytime— anywhere. Ask ns
Asffor £l™°' M ° re “ Mete ” ** are *» the folder.
BROWN 8 HELLICAR LTD.,
375 KENT STREET (Between King
and Market Streets), SYDNEY.
METZ CARS,
WAVERLEY CARS,
INDIAN MOTOR CYCLES.
CUTS
on
HORSES
FLINTS ME! ATED OIL
without leaving any blemish, the hair growing in the natural colour This
distinguishes Flint’s Oil from every other preparation P w fT; Thl ?
FLINT, Manufacturing: Chemist, ADELAIDE.
LONE HAND
Guide for
Australian.
6d
I
Write for full partlouiars to
Economy Tiering Machine.
A machine for stacking all goods to
any height limited by size of machine .
For Stacking Wool and Skins in Woolsheds.
For Stacking Stores for Storekeepers.
For Stacking any goods in a quick, cheap and
effective way.
Parsons Trading Co.,
St., Sydney. Equitable Buildings, Melbourne.
DULLNESS FLIES AWAY
%
A
'4
w
Q
Q
L'>-
:.V
IE
/
THANKS TO
Beechams Pills
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
. . . AT . . .
THE BANKING HOUSE, 228 Pitt Street,
Opposite PALACE THEATRE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LENDS MONEY ON ALL SECURITIES, including Furniture,
FROM 10 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
'« • V ■
FRED. McWILLIAM, Manager
Sawmiilers, Joiners and Cabinet Makers
You ail require Economical, High-speed
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Ask us for Catalogues. Ask us for Advice.
Ask us for References. Ask us for Prices.
You wifi find that—Our Machines give you satisfaction.
You will find that—We hold the largest stock in Australia.
You will find that—Our expert advice Is to your benefit.
You will find that—Our Prices as MANUFACTURERS are reasonable.
WE SAVE YOU MONEY.
Write, call or 'phone ; we are always ready for you to discuss our machines.
THE PREMIER SAWMILL & WOODWORKING MACHINERY MANUFACTURERS,
KIRCHNER & CO.
32 Market St., Sydney,
’PHONE: CITY-7091.
A “WATEROUS” Band Saw
BY KEEPING THE COSTS DOWN
SENDS THE PROFITS UP.
Here’s the thing in a nutshell. The “Waterous” is not only unusually
reliable and all that sort of thing, but, in addition, it works so fast that
you get a great deal more work done without increasing the overhead ex’s.
You may think this is merely “hot-air.” But it isn’t. We make that
. definite, far-reaching statement here in print, and if you are at all inter-
ested we are prepared to go into actual figures and PROVE that what we
say is so. The “Waterous” expert on our staff has some interesting facts
to put before you. It will take a little of your time, but if you’re the
kind of man we think you are you won’t mind spending a while to look
into a matter that means more money to you.
We also stock Circular Saw Benches, Panel Planers, Sand 4 Cutter
Planers, Spindle Moulders, Chain Mortisers, Tenoninc Machine
Sanders, Dove Tailers, etc. *
CASH OR TERMS.
T. M. (SOODALL & CO. Ltd.
Universal Machinery Merchants,
303-5 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephones: CITY 6427.8.


ARCHITECTS specify
MACK PARTITIONS
and have a Fire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write lor our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MACH LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dog’s Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers ot Aerated Waters and Cordials.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Hires hundred
of "Hop’s” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
DICK’S PATENT
BELTING.
THE ORIGINAL AND
CENUINE BALATA.
TRADk.
hfd
MARK
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a (ruard against inferior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
importers: James Hardie & Co.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
THE
HE
MACHINES
** TANGYE ”
Portable OH Engine.
' -
..
mm
-
Above illustration shows an up-to-date *• GANE " Milking Plant,
driven by a “ TANGYE ” Oil Engine.
Dalgety’s Machinery Department.
Miller’s Point, SYD
and All Branches .
AGENTS FOR—
“TANGrYE”
Oil and Benzine Engines, Suction Gas
Plants, Steam Engines, Vertical
Boilers, Irrigation Plants and
PUMPS of all descriptions.
‘ CLAYTON & SHUTTLEWORTH ”
Portable, Steam and Traction Engines.
“NICHOLSON & MORROW”
Harvesters, Drills, Cultivators, Ploughs.
“GANE” MILRING MACHINES,
with Patent Automatic
Milk Releaser. v
American Tool Works High Duty Lathes,
hf
Planers and
Shapers.
We have a stock of these machines
opened up in our Showrooms and
invite inspection. These are modern
machines of the best quality, and if
there is anywhere that quality counts
it is in a machine. If you cannot
favor us with a visit of inspection,
write us for our Accuracy Bulletin.
We are the Agents for, and have in
stock, CONSTANT DRIVE UNI-
VERSAL MILWAUKEE MILLING
MACHINES. Let us show you these,
or write us for Catalogue and Prices.
H. P. GREGORY & COMPANY
Engineers and
Machinery Merchants,
74 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
am*. ..**
>.. ’
m
.
A*A' : YJr? -i
IMPORTANT.
*po the man who wants to make housework
less burdensome to his wife—
*J*o the man or woman who desires to ** cut
costs” —
■’’J’O the housewife desiring a continually clean
home —
yo you we say, TRY A
“PREMIER”
Electric Suction Cleaner.
Complete with all Tools, only £lO. The Cleaner with the Rotary Brush.
. --- | | ----- 0
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD.,
NEWCASTLE. 307-11 Kent Street, SYDNEY. MELBOURNE.
-
o
The Lister holds the sceptre of supremacy
as the king of sheep shearing machines.
All parts guaranteed interchangeable with
the Wolseley.
Lister duplicates admit no rival in superi-
ority and durability.
ole Agents,- DANGAR GedYE & CP, •
m
mmm
SUNSHINE ENGINES
for driving Chaffcutters, Saw Benches, Pumps, Dynamos, Graders, Hoistr, Morta * ***
H. V. McKAY, Sunshine, Vic. Adelaide -Brisbane— —-Sydney -Me#
BRUCE PEEBLES & CO. LTP.,
, ENGINEERS, EDINBURGH.
turbo Saltern ato rs.
A.C. and D.C. Motors in Stock.
USUAL VOLTAGES AND SPEEDS.
Peebles-La Cour Motor Converters
AS ON ORDER FOR SYDNEY M.C.
Mining and Flameproof Motors a Specialty.
/
?
%
yf
n
p#
m
%
%
4
m
M
m^, : .
-fc
;
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Sydney and Melbourne.
Queensland Representative —C. GORDON FAiNE, Brisbane*
