

DEWAR’S THE WHISKY OF MANY MERITS.
R. 6. WATKINS & CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
A3MOU DWLMXL 3M
*
On all Classes of SECURITY.
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
N.S.W. MONT DE PIETE D. & I. CO., LTD.,
Head Glfice: 74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite National Amphitheatre. Telephone: No. 225 Central.
And at
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215=217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
mggwgcgii l^frrrn?
3aoßA.nx.
MB *
fiadleys Orient fjotel.
((
(IUEEN
X bac(
OF STATES
BACON and
QUEENSLAND CO-OP. BACON CO.
HAMS.
LTD, BRISBANE.
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING
Guahantkkd
d. C. Ludowici & Son, Ld.
ll7 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
IJMwUTTONS
MmsJbacoh
5.H.8
CHUBB’S
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
32 RECIPES
for preparing a variety of the most
dainty Desserts with
k
L
HANSENS
will be forwarded, Post Free to Any
Address, on application to
T. 8., Box 577, G.P.0., Sydney.
PALMER CORD
are specially constructed to ensure Long Service.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO.,
SYDNEY—MELBOURNE—NEWCASTLE
f
9
Royal
Dutch
COCOA.
SUPERIOR
EVERY WAY.
SSSPPfI
IB isjir
m
iiM*
MM
ibs&oi
a
Malthoid Roofing
Adds to the Value
of a Building
(1) Because it is absolutely waterproof, (2} because it wears as long as the
building, (3) because it giv4s the architect a chance to introduce whatever
artistic effects he wishes. If you would learn more of this best of all Roofing
Materials, let us send you BooKlets and Specifications. What address ?
The Paraffine Paint Go., Challis House, Sydney.
AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
D. S. EVANS,
Australasian Manager
BULLOCH LABES
WHISKIES
B.L
GOLD LABEL
WHITE-LABEL
EXTRA
SPECTAL
s. v: o.
REVOLUTIONISING AGRICULTURE.
THE “BIG 4” THIRTY.
During a day of 8 hours the “Big 4” Thirty Tractor
ploughs 25 acres ; cultivates 40 to 60 acres ; drills and har-
rows in one operation 40 to 60 acres ; harvests 40 to 60 acres ;
hauls 250 bags of wheat or 150 bales of wool on average roads.
The initial cost is less than 30 average horses, which it
equals. Cost of farming about one-third cost of horse
traction. Write for booklet and get the fgcts.
jWaßMueffi
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
352 KENT STREET
(near King Street), SYDNEY.
HELIDON SPA
The wonderful efficacy of HELIDON SPA STARKEYS LTD.,
r,h<* n r n *i nn
UmmSUMi
Agents,
The Bulletin
Yol. 34.—N0. 1767.]
[ Thursday, December 25, 1913.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


New Books
(Postages shown in Parentheses.)
At GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROP’T'Y,
LTD., m PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Barrett’s METAL PLATE WOKlv. 3/- (3d.).
THE BRAN PIE, illus. 4/- (6d.).
JANE AUSTIN (Eng. Men of Letters). 2/6 (3d.).
Dommett’s MOTOR CAR MECHANISM 4/6 (2d.).
Scott’s RAILWAY ROMANCE. 6/- (3d.).
Hall’s ALTERNATE CURRENT WORKING. 4/6 (3d.).
Holman's (Mrs.) MY WANDER YEAR. 1/- (Id.), .
Wauklyn’s ADMINISTRATIVE CONTROL OF
SMALLPOX. 4/6 (3d.).
Pertwee’s DUOLOGUES. 1/- (2d.).
Adam’s POLICE WORK FROM WITHIN, \ illus.
3/6 (3d.).
Mee’s LETTERS TO BOYS 1/3 (2d.).
MY DOG FRIENDS, by author of Where’s Master,
illus. 7/6 (6d,).
Death to Flies. J The New Noa-Poisonous Powder
o
ft
MUSTDIE
FREE SAMPLE.
Write to “Mustdie,”
Dept. H., Box 1520,
G.P.0., Sydney, for
a trial tin sent post
free.
T KADI MARK.
Kills
Fleas,
Bugs,
Mosquitoes,
Cockroaches.
Sold at Chemists and Stores, tins 9d., forwarded on receipt of stamps by the Sole Agents,
Hudson’s Eumenthol Chemical Co., Ltd.,
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
The Modest Muse
Sydney Partrige’s is a modest little muse,
clothed demurely iu sixpennyworth of book-
let, manufactured by the lvoolinda Press, N.
Kensington, Adelaide. The Lie and other
Lines is written by a good trades-unionist
without much help from that free-laborer,
Inspiration. She writes of “Traitors”—the
farmers w'ho foolishly became special con-
stables against the Wellington watersiders,
of “Capitalism”
Ah, the song of the terrible bush,
Twelve sheep bogged where the grass grows
lush,
Five crows caw on a ring-barked tree,
Droning their grace out thankfully....
Capitalist ('row from his place on high
Husoops down to pick out each worker’s eye,
Gorging his fill on the life-blood red.
Pitiless, heartless, unshamed by the dead.
Yet here is a little picture that, poetically,
is worth all her trades-unionism:—
SUND’Y.
Hund’y out here on th ’ s’lection,
With nawthin’ at all to do,
r Cept feed, th’ pigs an' th’ chickens,
An' pen up a poddy or two.
All right out here on th’ s’lection,
With nawthin ’ at all to do.
Th’ sky seems ’sif you’d jest passed it
Through a tub’ve mum’s washin’ blue.
Th' little clouds is like soap suds,
'Tween us an’ th' shiny sky.
There’s a line’ve long-bealced ivers
Flyin' lazy beyond our eye.
An’ down to th’ Cultivation
Dad, Mum, an' th’ baby've gone,
To lean on th’ sliprails admirin’
Th’ growth 've th’ tasselin’ (sawn.
Blossom ’n’ Gipsy ’re standin’
In th’ shade ’ve th' oV apple-gum,
An' th’ noise ’ve th’ leeks in th’ branches
Ts mixed with th’ honey-bees’ hum.
An’ me an’ th’ daivgs ’n’ our Billy,
’N’ a friendly neighbor or two.
Have d dead-ripe time on a Hund’y
With nawthin’ at all to do.
Another modest little muse is M. Hookey’s,
also featly dressed (in green and white)
by The Bookfhllow, charmingly deco-
rated by L. Decnainenx, and presumably
priced at 6d. In The Edge of the Field M.
Hookey gives us only six poems—the I’est
are neatly done translations. Inspiration,
here, too, is wanting; but technique and
much talent take its place. Two of the six
poems adequately express M. Hookey’s in-
tent :
THE UNNAMED FLOWERS OF THE TASMANIAN
BUSH.
Siceet nameless flowers that blossom all un-
known
In woqdland places—whose bright, starry
eyes
Bee waving shadows and blue sunlit skies
But never face of man. The forest’s moan
Echoes about you, and the silver tone
Of dripping water, and the myriad sighs
And voices of the bush, and all the wise
Glad speech of Nature. These are all your
own.
But unto you no pobt lifts his ?ong,
Dowering your silent sweetness with a name
That you may live by in the deathless fame
Of fond remembrance. You are far away,
Swinging sweet censers ever, where the long
Hlant sunbeams crown you with the gold of
day.
THE HOUN BELLE. (A mountain in
SOUTHERN TASMANIA.)
Spellbound amid her sleeping sentinels,
Through tn& long ages dreams the Huon
I {(‘lie. —
A silent face amid the mountains grey.
Lying with stony features upward turned.
Heedless of heat or cold or the white snow
That every winter makes her forehead hoar.
Long hath she slept, so long that wind-blown
trees
Grown bolder in the stillness, have up-
climbed
O’er the wan cheek and, in wild whispers
low.
Breathe their strange music to the silent Ups
That answer not but guard their secret well,
j Lost in the solitude of silver clouds.
Scott’s South Pole
It will always be that. Amundsen got
there first; but Scott made it his. And
Scott’s Bast Expedition (Smith, Elder, per
Dymock’s Library), in tw r o big. finely illus-
trated volumes, vividly tells the story of an
expedition equally famous for the heroism
of its members, for the almost incredible
hardships they underwent, for the enormous
amount of exploration they achieved, for the
scientific results they attained, and for the
pathos of the tragedy of the Polar party.
The first volume is made up entirely of
Scott’s own journals—that wonderful de-
tailed record of misfortune met with
the white man’s bravery. Yet the second
volume contains stories of expeditions as
hazardous, as wonderful and as exciting,
and of misfortunes as bravely and as brightly
borne. There is that winter journey to
Cape Crozier with the telling extracts from
Cherry-Garrard’s diary, fully confirming
Scott’s opinion that it was “the hardest
journey ever done.” There is the equally
thrilling narrative of the northern party,
under Campbell, compelled to winter under
conditions (hat have never been met with nor
conquered before; the interesting western
journeys by Australian members among
glaciers, the long wait at the winter quar-
ters without news of Scott, tiie spring
search-party, and the discovery of the
bodies. Added are the account of the voy-
ages of the Terra Nova, and summaries of
the scientific results achieved. And through-
out there are the marvellous photographs of
Herbert Pouting.
&
Necessarily this work will be Compared
with Shackleton’s and Amundsen's. First,
it must be admitted that, had Scott lived,
he would have made a better book of it. Both
Shackleton and Amundsen w’rote their stories
at ease, building on the bare records of their
diaries a consecutive and well-integrated
story. They were able to amplify brief
notes with dramatic effect. Thus Shackleton
in his narrative of his return almost con-
sciously heightens the dramatic quality of its
climax; while Amundsen, 1 , the conqueror,
writing with lightness and ease, looks back,
r.:d sees hardly any hardships on his track.
His description of his winter quarters, too,
is much more brilliantly done than Scott’s.
Amundsen was a vmter as well as a doer:
there is a delightful literary touch in all his
work: Scott was a doer all the time, a
plugger even in his diary. Yet, to the reader,
the bare records of his diary are more than
literature: one must read between the lines.
And comparing Amundsen and Scott one
sees the former as the man born for his job,
at home in his environment, a master of his
materials, a homely man with an hereditary
flair for polar travel, a man of infinite care
and caution and ingenuity: while Scott
shows as the dogged naval man, a born
leader, depending more for his success on the
ingenuity of his devoted followers, not really
at home with the conditions, making mis-
takes and bravely facing the consequences,
taking risks before which Amundsen might
have conceivably almost lightlieartedly turned
back, and going to his death without a word
of Complaint, taking the full blame for what
no man could be blamed, and perishing a
hero. Yet a man who lacked nothing in his
make-up except the infinite capacity for
taking pains that Polar exploration demands.
His diaries, carefully read, indicate this side
of his character. He chanced too much, ex-
pecting somehow to muddle through. He met
a run of bad luck —inconceivably ahd shat-
teringly bad. That was one of the chances
he did not sufficiently consider. He took
chances, too, in his transport. He experi-
mented with ponies, motors and dogs.
Amundsen took no chances ; be kept to the
proven merits of dogs; he knew how to
handle dogs; and he took them to the Pole
and back agaj'n—rather, he made them take
him fo the Pole and back again. Amundsen
was the professional; Scott, despite his ex-
perience, remained the amateur. Yet....
yet... .which, ethically, is the finer man?
The world needs Amundsens to do its w T ork ;
Humanity needs Seotts for her nobler ideals.
A man of singularly equable temperament,
a lovable man. Always making allowances,
always ready with encouragement and ex-
cuse for his companions, yet quick to cor-
rect and guide. He must have commanded
the uttermost loyalty of his party. (And he
was proud of his party.
I am very much impressed with the extra-
ordinary and general cordiality of the rela-
tions which exist among our people. I do
not suppose that a statement of the real
truth, namely, that there is no friction at
all, will be credited—it is so generally
thought that the mhny rubs of such a life as
this are quietly and purposely sunk in
oblivion. With me there is no need to draw
a veil; there is nothing to cover. There are
no strained relations in this hot.... Such a
state of affairs would he delightfully surpris-
ing under any conditions, but it is much
more so when one remembers the diverse
assortment of our company.... To-night
Oates, captain in a smart cavalry regiment,
has been “scrapping” over chairs and tables
with Debenhafn. a young Australian student.
It is a triumph to have collected such men.
Here are some snapshots from one of
Scott’s private letters :
Words must always fail me when I talk
of Bill Wilson. I believe he really is the
finest character X. ever met. Every quality
is so solid and dependable ; cannot you imag-
ine how that counts down here? Whatever
the matter, one knows Bill will be sound,
shrewdly practical, intensely loyal and quite
unselfish. . . .a quiet vein of humor pnd really
consummate tact... .Bowers, is a positive
treasure, absolutely trustworthy and pro-
digiously energetic. He is about the hard-
est man amongst us, and that is saying a
good deal. I shall have a hundred little tales
to tell you of his indefatigable zeal, his un-
selfishness, and his unextinguishable good-
humor. .. .The Soldier (Capt. Oates) is.. . .
a delightfully humorous, cheery old pessi-
mist —striving with the ponies night and day
and bringing woeful aoounts of their small
ailments into the hut.
It becomes increasingly evident as the
diaries are read that Scott knew that the
enterprise was a risky one. Take these
extracts in turn: —
I think our plan will carry us through
without the motors (though in that case
nothing else must fail)....
I fear to be too sanguine, yet taking
Everything into consideration I feel that our
chances ought to be g00d....
U bat on earth does such weather mean at
this time of year? It is more than our share
of ill-fortune, I think, but the luck may
turn yet....
How great may be the element of luck !
No foresight—no procedure—-could have pre-
pared us for this state of affairs.... I can-
not see that any plan would be altered if it
were to do again.. ._.
It is a very serious business if the men
(of one of the supporting parties) are going
to crack up....
, Things are not so rosy as they might be,
but we keep our spirits up and say the luck
must turn,...We are struggling on, consid-
ering all things, against odds. It vs a pity
the luck doesn’t come our way, because every
detail of equipment is right....We ought to
get through....
Only 85 miles from the Pole, but it’s going
to be' a Stiff up-pull both ways, appar-
ently. . . .
The worst has happened, or nearly the
worst. Bowers detected a black speck ahpad.
Soon we knew that this could not be a nat-
ural snow feature. We marched on, found
that it was a black flag tied to a sledge-
bearer ; nearby the remains of a camp;
sledge tracks and ski tracks going and com-
ing and the clear traces of dogs’ paws —many
dogs. This told us the whole story. The
Norwegians have forestalled ns and are first
at the Pole. It is a terrible disappointment,
and X. am very sorry for my loyal companions
....All the day-dreams must go; it will be
a wearisome return.... Good God ! this is an
awful place, and terrible enough for. us to
have labored to it without the reward of
priority.
Now for the run home and a desperate
struggle. I wonder if we can do it. .. .
Well, we have turned our back now on the
goal of our ambition, and must face our SOO
miles of solid dragging—-and good-bye to most
of the day-dreams !
J*
Here it is the place to kill the suggestion
made that the disappointment of coming
second contributed to the catastrophe. Scott
and his men were made of stronger fibre.
Nowhere in his diary do we find any maudlin
despair at not winning the prize. He was
too much worried over the increasing diffi-
culties of his long slog back. And mentally,
the disappointment could not affect men
who had so cheerfully overcome disappoint-
ments almost as great. Arctic explorers are
not made in that mould —except, of course,
the Japanese who wintered in Port Jackson.
When Scott first found that Amundsen was
on the same quest, he decided not to alter
his programme one iota. He would do what
he had come to do: rightly, he would not
take the risk of making it a race.
Then the increasing difficulties and
the growing doubts on the journey back—to
death.
I don’t' like the look of it. Is the weather
breaking up? If so, God help us. ...
We shall be lucky if we get through with-
put serious injury. . . .
Yet we shall pull through all right, D.V.
We are by no means worn out. .. .
There is no getting away from the fact
that we are not going strong. Probably none
of us. We are inclined to get slack and slow
with our camping arrangements, and small
delays increase. .. .But it’s no use ineeting
troubles half-way, and our sleep is all too
short to write more.'. . .
This was when Evans had nearly broken
down in brain, the day before he collapsed
and died.
We think that. . . .his downward path was
accelerated first by the shock of his frost-
bitten fingers, and later by falls during rough
travelling on the glacier, further by his loss
of all confidence in himself. Wilson thinks
it certain he must have injured his brain by
a fall. It is a terrible thing to lose a com-
panion in this way, but calm reflection show’s
that there could not have been a better end-
ing to the terrible anxieties of the past
w r eek....
We are in very queer street since there
is no doubt we cannot do the extra marches
and feel the cold horribly. .. .Amongst our-
selves we are unendingly cheerful, but what
each man feels in his heart I can only guess
. . . .Things look very black indeed. ... I don’t
know what I should do if Wilson and Bowers
weren’t so determinedlv cheerful over things.
And so to the end of the terrible, heroic
story.
It is pathetic to note that if Scott had
been able to lay down his One Ton Depot at
lat. 80, as was his intention, the Polar party
would have reached it. But owing to the
state of the ponies on that depOt-laying
journey, Scott was compelled to make that
depot in lat. 79deg. 29min. “It is a pity wm
couldn’t get to 80deg.,” he remarks in his
earlier diary. OA hik return he and his
party struggled back well past the latitude
where the depot should have beep.
The Inlander, Vol. 1., No. 1, a quarterly
magazine dealing with national interests
from the Outbacker’s point of view, edited
by a Seotchbyterian minister, John Flynn
and published by the Home Mission Board
of the Presbyscotchian 'Church of Australia
gains this ribald page’s approval. Any
magazine that interests us in the undeve-
looed centre of the Commonwealth, as
this publication does, by means of admirable
photographs and well-wri,tten description, is
doing useful work; and any religion that
believes in Home missions instead of collect-
ing white Australian threepennies to convert
yellow piccaninnies has our commendation
Also, Flynn, who is a kind of Centralian
sundowner, has the biggest diocese of any
prelate on earth, and ministers are as scarce
there as we trust they will be in Hades.
This admirable and optimistic quarterly can
be purchased at all booksellers, God-fearing
and otherwise, for Is.
A. and R. have now added to the cheap
edition of their “Snowy River” series, at
3s. 6d. a copy. Lawson’s Children of the
Bush, While the Billy Boils, On the Track
and Over the Slipraiis, and Joe Wilson and
his Mates.
Yachtsmen will find entertainment and
interest in C. C. Lyuam’s illustrated account
of his yachting cruises To Norway and the
North Cape in " Blue Dragon II.” (Sidgwick
and Jackson, Gs.). The author was awarded
the challenge cup of the Royal Cruising
Club for this remarkable cruise.
For the kiddies: Maoriland Fairy Tales, by Edith
Howes (Ward, Lock; 3s. 6d.), illustrated in color
and nicely written. The Children’s Blue Bird, by
Georgette Leblalic, who happens to be Mrs. Maeter-
linck, illustrated (Methuen ; 55.), the story of the
play, specially written for children, and remarkable
for Albert Rothenstein’s colored illustrations, quite
“futurist” in conception. The Adventures of Akbar,
by Flora Annie Steel (Heinemann; 65.), illustrated
in color by Bvain Shaw. Mother Goose: The Old
Nursery Rhymes (Heinemann; 65.), one of the finest
things that “Anon.” has ever written, and illus-
trated by Arthur Rackham, with an art so dainty
and so grotesquely humorous that this book will be
bought, as most mechanical toys are bought, to amuse
melancholic fathers. Albert Rothenstein’s “futurist
work is more suitable for children, since it is just
the sort of stuff ther could do themselves.
For bridge fiends: How to Win at Auction Bridge,
by “Cut Cavendish” (Laurie). This _ work deals
with the “Royal Spades” variety of this gamble.
There seem to be some more of these
“Australian Corellis” about-—or is Harling-
ham Quinn, the author of Hands o’ the
Desert (The Specialty Press, Melb.), the
same lady as Lindsay Russell? If no t
Harlingham is a plagiarist— ‘not of phrases,
but of the Corellian essentials of popularity:
the wicked Roman Catholic priest, the good
young Roman Catholic priest, the noble-
natured girl whom he kisses, and the Direful
Doubt that assails that good young priest
jufet after he has embraced the girl, whether,
after all, he had really received a “call.”"
In Hands o’ the Desert the girl is called
Roma; she is surrounded with “pompous
footmen” and has “foaming lapes at her
breast.” She lives at a place called the
Capitol, or, more definitely, the Capitol of
Australia, the author having confused the
capital city of Australia with one of its
possible buildings, the Capitol. Also, the
wicked priest is referred to sometimes as
Father Dealabury and sometimes as Father
liealabury. The story is all so sad. Itoma
meets the good young priest in the town-
ship, whither she has been sexH for a rest:
cpre from the “social whirl” down at the
“Ca-pitol.” He kisses her once or twice, and
they know that they love each other—-and,
all the time, Roma is engaged to an Earl!
He is not only ainEarl, but he is a “scion”
—“he was a scion of one of the oldest and
proudest families in England !” Probably
the last “scion” left in literature. And
the good young priest decides to leave the
Church, and comes down to the gaiety of the
social whirl at the “Capitol” and sees her at
a dance, and....but it is all too sad. lie
goes back to the backblocks, and Roma dies,
and Japan attacks Australia, and America
comes to Australia’s aid ; but it really doesn’t
matter much, since Roma is dead. And the
saddest thing of all is the frontispiece show-
ing the good young priest standing at the
church door watching Roma go by. accom-
panied by a child: and underneath this
pathetic legend: “Regrets—What Might
Have Been.” Our compliments to Ilarling-
ham Quinn, and to Lindsay Russell.
“Soldier though he was, he quivered before
this woman, whose every whim had to be
obeyed. He knew, only too well, were he at
Land’k End and she choose to recall him, he
would immediately return to be her slave.
Such, indeed, is woman’s magic power over ,
man.” This is Gladys Lewis, in The Curse
of Passfion (Melbourne Publishing Co.,
Cromwell Fundings, Melb., Is. 3d.). The
author has learnt the trick of The Pansy
Novels, and deals only in Oantains of the
Grenadier Guards and Duchesses. In the
end, too. “At the first Court of the season,
Nita had been presented to their Most
Gracious Majesties.” Won’t some kind
friend, in the interests of Australian litera-
ture, go and drown Gladys?


n
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for SMOKERS’ REQUISIT
w
No. 1046.—Smoker’s
Cabinet. Size, 12Ain.
high x 6jin. x 5Mn. Fumed
Oak, fitted with Coppered
Bronzed Panel and Match
Box Holder, Tobacco Jar
and Drawer for Cigars or
Cigarettes ... 10/6
No. (>7s.—Airtight Tobacco
Jar, in Derby Chocolate Ware,
to hold lib. Price 5/-
No. 43.—Triumph Bent Pipe, Ster-
ling Silver-mounted, Handout Vulcanite
Stem. Will not crack or burn. Com-
plete in Case 5/6
Majolica Airtight To-
bacco Jar. To hold
lib., ,3/3; 41b., 2/C.
Smoker's <
Pipe Ruck,
7 Pipes
'abinet
to hold
• 1/8
fW
Vffl.
i
Daisy Pattern Airtight
Tobacco Jar —
To hold lib., 3/9; 41b., 3/3
No. 674.—Tobacco Jar, Chdco-
olate Langley Ware, airtight—
To hold £lb., 4/-; lib., 4/6
No. 875.—Smoker’s Cabi-
net, Clear Glass Panel Door,
Drawer for Cigarettes, To-
bacco Jar and Pipe Rack—
No. 47.—Tobacco Jar,
effectively colored Earthen-
ware, with Cover. . 1/9
No. 677.—Tobacco Jar, in
Fancy Glazed Earthenware, air-
tight Lid —
To hold Mb., 5/-; Hb., 6/-
t
r ■
(mahe minaAMt~)
Mil
m
Triumph Briar Pipe Companion, with 2
Straight Pipes, Vulcanite Mouthpiece, and Sil-
ver Band. In Morocco Case, lined Buck-
skin 11/O
: ai
II
v f» -
No. 18120. Smoker’s Set, in hammered Cop-
per y.%
Similar design, in Brass 4/0
9/S sadi.i i spioi! ‘[Jucjs
jo Such o* l spt?y o<li,| ?|«() palling -0901
mmMi.
Be Wise!
Buy
everything
at
Anthony
Horderns’
Famous
Low Prices
—the
Lowest
in the
Land.
No. 958. —Fumed Oak Smoker’s
Cabinet, containing Tobacco Jar, Pipe
Rack, place for 50 Box of Cigars, Lock and
Key IG/-
Send for
Illustrated
Price Lists
of
Anything
you want,
post free
on
request.
They save
you sovs.
<5?
M
Lu
POSTAGE
EXTRA.
POSTAGE
EX IRA.
Dimitrino Ismail Pacha Cigarettes.
Ismail Pacha Cigarettes are smoked with complete satisfaction by men
who appreciate a high-grade Turkish Cigarette, delicately blended, and
always uniform in quality.
Packet of 10. Tin of 50. Per 100.
9d. 3/9 7/3
Postage. . Id. id. 6d. extra.
!TPS!P!SW!P!W^
4 (TRIUMPH©
©Vo
No. 38.—Triumph Pipe Companion,
contains 2 Pipes in Morocco Leather Case,
one each, Amber ami Vulcanite, Silver-
mounted Mouthpiece 18/C
No. 670. Pipe Rack, Polished Wood,
Mirror back. To hold 7 pipes..... 1/4
To hold 8 Pipes 2/9
No. 925.—New Fumed Dull Oak Pipe Hack,
to hold 7 Pipes, hang or stand 3/6
ANTHONY HORDERN h SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


m
WINCHESTER
Win 'ches-tier rifle, or Win '-
ches-ter, n (win'ches-ter).
[After Oliver F. Winchester (1810-
801. Amer. manufacturer. | A breech-
loading rifle with a tubular magazine
under the barrel holding five or more cart-
ridges inserted one by one from the rear, the
bolt being worked back and forth by a lever be-
neath. It ** * was introduced about 1866, and is in
world-wide use especially as a sporting arm.— (Webster’s
New International Dictionary.)
WEBSTER'S SAYS
WIN CHESTER
Repeating Rifles Are “In World-Wide Use”
This statement is authentic. It could also have said with
equal truth that the reason why Winchester rifles are “in
world-wide use” is because they have been found by sports-
men everywhere to be superior in construction, absolutely
dependable, accurate and strong in shooting and moderate in
cost. Another reason is that Winchester rifles are made in
all desirable calibers, from .22 to .50, and in various styles and
models, suited to individual tastes, and to all kinds of shooting.
Cartridges are also “in world-wide use. In
Winchester and all other rifles and in revolvers, they
can be depended on to give the best results. Made for all arms.
Dealers Everywhere Recommend the W Brand
\ l /
\ vwU/'
m
Lime-Frui t Juice.
Brings to your lips the juice
of the lime fruit.
It is a drink that is always cooling and refreshing.
The children love it. Order a few bottles to-day.
Laree supplies have been lately shipped
from London.
MONTSERRAT is sold by all leading Storekeepers.
'/Q
A SATISFIED USER OF ECKERSLEY’S
AERATED WATER MACHINES
Ur
■fT 03 " 3
WRITES :
Mumbil, 18th August, 1913.
RAILWAY HOTEL.
J. Forrest,
Prop.
“I am more than satisfied with my Aerated
Water Machine, purchased from you some
time ago, and the Waters which it produces
are excellent. The cost of production is only
a trifle.
“Yours faithfully,
“(Sgd.) JACK FORREST .”
No Hotelkeeper or Vendor of Aerated
Beverages can afford to be without an
Eckersley Aerated Water Machine or
Soda Fountain. We are the only manu-
facturers of these superb Machines, and
in purchasing from us, middlemen’s
profits are eliminated.
ECKERSLEY’S,
Canada Building, 822 George St., Sydney
Clarendon Street, South Melbourne
Queensland Agents—Messrs. Elliott, Donaldson & Douglas, 529.33 Queen Street, Brisbane.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
Works : Birmingham
England,
These series -of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
L. & C. HARDTMUTH S
“KOH-I-NOOR”
Pocket Propelling Pencils.
Made in a variety of charming
styles, one of which is here illus-
trated. Some styles have re-fills
at the end. Others, for writers
who always like a sharp point to
their pencil, have a pencil sharp-
ener at the end. Each pencil
is perfectly made —“ a thing of
beauty, and a joy for ever.” The
lead, which is “ Koh-i-noor,” does
not shp or break under pressure,
and one twist of the fingers brings
it into action. Too simple and
too well made to get out of order,
and far superior to any other
pocket pencils made.
In Various Styles, Sizes and Prices.
0/ Stationers, &c., every here.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, Ltd., Koh-i-noor House, London, England.
(AUSTRALIA : 350, George Street, Sydney.)
THE HANDIEST
MEDICINE OFALL!
Australians will find
the most useful household remedy
for Impure Blood, Boils, Pimples,
Constipation, Liver Troubles, Rheu-
matism, Want of Energy, and all
Stomach Complaints.
“Golcryst” is made from Epsom
Salts, Senna, Sarsaparilla, Dandelion,
Liquorice and Ginger, and is thus not
a quack remedy with a secret formula.
Packets: 3d., 6d. & Is.
Free Sample posted by Proprietors—
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO.,
MELBOURNE. [2
. #
gives health and
strength to all
ages, from the
infant to the
aged. —Ready for
use, it requires
no cooking, and is
delicious to taste.
0/ all Chemists
and Stores.
lb
r
The following interesting letter is written
Clements Tonic.
“To CLEMENTS TONIC, LTD.
“From May to the end of October, 1012. I suffered
agonies with acute MUSCULAR RHEUMATISM.
My ankles, knees and shoulder joints became
swollen and painful, and the excruciating pains in
my back were almost unbearable. I was in a
helpless condition, could scarcely stand; to make
matters worse, I completely lost my appetite, and to sleep at night was out of the
question.
“I had the best medical advice and medicines. Turkish and hot salt-water
baths out of number, also was massaged three times a week, but all to no purpose.
“I began to despair of ever being well again, and, as a last resource, concluded
to try CLEMENTS TONIC, I had read so much of it.
“I did so, and I FELT A WONDERFUL IMPROVEMENT. By the time
I had finished my second large bottle the swelling of the joints and pains in the
back left me. my appetite had returned, and I slept well. When I was on my
fourth bottle I felt as vigorous and strong as I ever did in my life.
“I can now go about and enjoy myself with renewed energy, that makes life
worth living. I have only Clements Tonic to thank for coming to my timel)
assistance, when all other remedies failed to restore me to perfect health.
“(Signed) FRED. E. DIAMOND, J.P.
“No. 8 Rosedale Street, Petersham, Sydney, N.S.W.”
CLEMENTS TONIC IS THE
BEST OF MEDICINES.
GET IT AND GET WELL.
All Chemists and Stores sell it.
This medicine is invaluable for restoring strength after illness, Fever, Weakness,
Insomnia, Indigestion, or Constipation. It gives strength and health.


Benger’s is
natural food entire-
ly free from any
chemical substance
whatsoever.
ill
*2*
X
♦
It is different
from all other
foods in being
scientifically
combined with
natural diges-
tive principles.
Food
is prepared for child, invalid,
or ageJ person, with fresh new milk,
and in course of preparation, both
the Food and the milk are partially
digested, as des red.
This unique feature enables Beager s Food
to be assimilated under almost all conditions
of illness and digestive disorder.
Bettgcr's Food is sold in tins by Chemists , etc., everywhere.
An interesting 1 booklet explaining - how Benger’s Food 'assists Nature*
for Invalids and Convalescents, post f ee from
BENGER’S FOOD LTD., MANCHESTER,Eng.
Branch Offices:
NEW YORK (U.S A.) 92, William St. SYDNEY (N.S.W.) U 7, Pitt St.
Canadian si gents —Naf'o al Drug & Chemical Co., Ltd., 34, St.
Gabriel St., MONTREAL, and branches throughout CANADA.
<l.
ter
mm
2&mrnr'Wlsk
llir <mjilU|UUtt^ai!ttpuum
rnmm
F.WOIFF&SOHN
.It
Fashionable
Favorite-Perfume
F.Wolff&Sohn
PERFUMERS
l KARLSRUHE ,
JiA.BERLIN • LONDON,/™/
Obtainable from all the leading stores.
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
SYDNEY : John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
MELBOURNE : Briscoe & Co., Ltd., Lit. Collins St.
BRISBANE : Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH : McLean Bros. & Rigg.
Aus. Rep.—T. Nicholls, o/o Sydney Agents.
JASON
Unshrinkable
HOSIERY.
•rSVrTcTb^
IRJiiLMQSS
BOTTLE AFTER BOTTLE-
of “ Bonnington’s Irish Moss” goes forth on its
mission—that of curing Coughs and Colds. You
can rely on each one doing its duty faithfully.
IT IS A REAL CURE FOR
COUCHS, COLDS, BRONCHITIS, CROUP,
WHOOPINC COUCH, SORE THROAT,
SORE LUNCS, LOSS OF VOICE, INFLUENZA
DIFFICULTY OF BREATHINC.
and all these kindred ailments of the throat and lungs.
Do not be misled by worthless imitations. Take only—
BONNINCTON’S IRISH MOSS
OF 40 YEARS FAME.
RUNKENNESS Cured.
Any lady can cure the most violent drunkard—secretly—at home. GOLDEN
SPECIFIC has no odor or taste, and can be taken by the most delicate person
of either sex. It totally eradicates all craving for stimulants, creating a last-
ing antipathy to alcohol in a few weeks. Many cases are cured in a few days
with this treatment. . . Send 2d. stamp for FREE SAMPLE and full particulars.
THE GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO., DEPT. 4, MARKET STREET, SYDNEY, N. S.W.
ms
MAKE UP YOUR
MIND TO HAVE
A PERFECT
BUST
There are to-day hundreds of women who were once thin, flat-
bosomed, hollow-cheeked and generally scraggly in appearance, and
suffering the effects of anaemia and defective digestion, who are now for
the first time in their lives healthy, full-bosomed and pink-cheeked, and
enjoying the full vigor of robust womanhood, as the result of a few
weeks under our wonderful
** FLESH-FOOD ” TREATMENT.
Many women whose figures have been spoiled by maternal duties
have been entirely restored to splendid form, and flat-chested young
women who suffered slow development have had the fault corrected by
this treatment with lasting effect.
Flesh-Food is totally harmless in every respect. Its efficacy is
beyond question, and its use no demand upon the subject’s time. Many
cases gained up to six pounds a week, and an increase in bust measure-
ment up to 8 and 10 inches. Guarantee given in every case.
ANY WOMAN who lacks good bust development lacks the one essential that creates a perfect
appearance. Lack of proper bust development, hollow cheeks and “salt-cellars” quickly take from
a woman the bloom and freshness of healthy womanhood. Misfortune may have been your lot in
so far as natural development is concerned, but science has found a way to correct your deficiency.
Even though you have never been full-bosomed, and though you have been attenuated all your life,
if you suffer from no wasting disease, your bosom can be fully developed and your weight increased
to normal. /r HAS BEEN DONE FOR THOUSANDS WHY NOT YOU?
You can readily see the effect of an increase in your weight or measurements. It is not neces-
sary to imagine you are being benefited. See what Miss M. BOURIvE, of Tamworth, says
“Yours to hand, and am pleased to state that your treatment increased my
weight considerably over two stone, and my bust measurements by several
inches. Since using it I am much better in health, and my flesh is now firm
and I feel stronger and more vigorous. I thank you for the trouble you have
taken, and am grateful for all you have done for me.”
We publish an interesting book on the subject of attenuation and develop-
ment, and will send same and a FREE SAMPLE TREATMENT to you FREE
OF CHARGE upon receipt of a 2d. stamp to pay part postage. All communica-
tions private and confidential. Write or call to-day for full particulars. [lBlB
FAELIERE I'LESH-FOOI) CO., 1103 ASH STREET, SYDNEY.
FREE
SAMPLE
WILL ANDRADE for PLAYS.
AMOUS
ARCES
REE-ACTING
II-
Contents —
Area Belle
Betsy Baker
Box and Cox
Ici on Parle Francais
My Turn Next
Rough Diamond
That Rascal Pat
Turn Him Out
All these are IN ONE
VOLUME for 1/-
(posted 1/1).
Mention The Bulletin.
New American Joke
Books illustrated: Hot
Stuff Jokelets, 1/1;
Polite Vaudeville, 1/1;
After - Dinner Stories,
1/1; Hebrew Jokes,
1/1; Stage Jokes, 1/1;
Irish Jokes, 1/1 ; Talk-
alogues, 1/1 ; Jokes
Without Whiskers, 1/1 ;
On a Fast Train, 1/1 ;
On a Slow Train, 1/1 ;
With a Bum Show,
1/7 ; Mustard Plasters,
1/7 ; The 125 Best Card
Tricks, 1/8 ; Brough's
Secret of Stage Make-
Up, 1/4 ; Comic Recita-
tions, 1/1 ; Hypnotism,
Mesmerism and Clair-
voyance, 1/1 ; Amateur
Conjuring Book, 7d.
Above prices include postage to any address.
EASY CONJURING TRICKS.
Diminishing
Cards.
Ordinary
Playing:
Cards, which
areapparent-
ly ‘ squeezed’
smaller and
smaller till
they dissolve
altoge t h e r.
C o ni p 1 e t e,
with full in-
struc t i o n s;
anyone can
work them.
29,
posted 3/-
Other Easy Card Tricks are:—(l) Wizard of the
North, and (2) The Two-from-Flve, 6d. each;
posted Bd. Above STricks, post free anywhere, 4/-
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.-*®
Stamps orPostal Notes of any State will do.
Catalogues
FREE.
201 BOURKE STREET. MELBOURNE.
FREE TO
SMOKERS!
Mr. R. J. Hinton, Jerrara Creek, Marulan, N.S.W.,
writes:—
“it gives me great pleasure to inform you that I
have been completely cured or the Tobacco Habit by
your wonderful Tobacco Specific, after using tobacco
"heavily for seven yea: j, sometimes Boz. to lOoz. in
the week. It is now 1H months since I last used
tobacco, and, although I am continually in the com-
pany of smokers, I do not have the least desire to
smoke, therefore I consider the cure permanent.
“My general health is now perfect; all my former
complaints, such as irregular Heart Action, Dizzi-
ness, Nervousness and Stomach Trouble, which I
have every reason to believe were caused through the
use of tobacco, have entirely disappeared, and are
only remembered as a hideous nightmare. I eat
and sleep well, and feel fit to face the world again.
It will give me great pleasure to recommend your
remedy to others.”
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a FREE
SAMPLE of Tobacco Specific, also Booklet, Testi-
monials, etc.
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
DEPT. Q,
107 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
[L
THE Australian Magazine. THE LONE
HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d.
ARE YOU
Ruptured
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance tbat is not
only COMFORTABLE 10 WEAR, but ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUBHION APPLIANCE
Nevermind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with palling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men. women & children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE,
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins>st., Melbourne, Vic.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT,
In use since ieg 4 )
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak S f ght
a sk XU?" Chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
VERIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ballade of Cheap Beer.
Life is a wearying round of care,
Trouble, expense and fume and fret;
Somehow or other, ’tis getting rare
To meet with a man who is not in debt.
Everyone, more or less, hates to pay,
Save for a ticket in Tattersall’s sweep,
Or for a seat at a picture-play—
Why should we worry when Beer is cheap?
Rents have gone up, and vile landlords dare
Tenants to leave; while the board “TO
LET,”
Which in old days grinned everywhere,
Lurks in a cellar as black as jet.
Clothes have just doubled in price to-day—
Footwear has taken an upward leap;
Clearly, high prices have come to stay—
Why should we worry when Beer is cheap?
Mention of food makes a father swear!
Fish is a thing you can hardly get;
Meat’s at a figure to make one stare;
Fruit we go short of, with much regret;
Living grows dearer, strive a; we may;
Old age and creditors on us creep—-
Is it a Wonder our hair turns grey?
Why should we worry when Beer is cheap?
Envoy.
Prince, if you hold it, let’s be gay !
At the Procession just one more peep !
Though the teetotallers whine and bray.
Why should we worry when Beer is cheap?
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.
My Lady’s Shoon.
Shall my lady be shod with rose-leaf pink
Or the green of leaves at the water’s brink?
Shall my lady be shod with hyacinth
Or blue of a windless ocean?
Shall my lady be shod with rainbow shoon,
Or grey, as the end of the afternoon?
Shall her slippers be chameleon-like
To mirror her least emotion?
Shall my lady choose for her little feet
A silver buckle all trim and neat,
A scarlet bow or a wide rosette
Or a diamond’s chilly glimmer?
Shall her choice be merely a russet brown
To mate with a modest morning gown?
Shall mv lady cover her feet with naught
But a stocking’s silken shimmer?
Let her have her will for her brief, bright
day,
Copy the blossoms that blow and sway,
Rain-white lily or sunny rose
That out of the dawn had birth.
It will come to her, as it comes to all.
The tale of the leaves that fade and fall —
And my lady’s feet at the last be shod
With a little crumbling earth.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
Remarks to a Foggy Love.
Draw near and let me look upon thy face.
The stars are gone and morning lights the
dome
Of all the shrouded sky. Thou hast a place,
O love, on this warm breast that is thy home,
Though errant is thy step and sad thy pace,
And thou, mayhap, too full for sound or
foam.
Here let us sit beside the foggy sea
And hear the bells that clamor to the boats;
Thy drooping whisker says, and over thee
A flavor as of perished gladness floats;
The seat is somewhat wet, but such as we
May feel love stir beneath our overcoats.
Perchance last night you plucked in Gulistan
A rosebud passing fair beneath the lights.
It is the ancient privilege of man
To wander wide in thick, absorbent nights;
And ever since this tangled world began
To talk at morn was one of woman’s rights.
The rose that yesterevening bloomed so fair,
Pink-white against the bottles ranged with
art,
This morn of haggard fog disdains to wear
Beside the chafing of its wintry heart;
Somewhere there slumbers with discordant
hair
A joy that in the daylight hath no part.
Perchance in oystered palaces remote
Your manly form with crayfish you sus-
tained,
And felt Italian airs about you float,
Or old Greek smells that could not be en-
chained.
Of such events as these I take no note ;
I would not have all mysteries explained.
Nay, speak not, for the damps of morn are
loose
To hide your wreckage from the public view.
There may be plenteous reason and excuse
In various vintages for all you do ;
Nor is my morning reason so obtuse
That I should ask repentant lies from you.
Your tie is ranged obliquely ’neath your ear,
Your collar bursteth from the yielding stud,
Your broken hat proclaimeth midnight cheer
And primal comfort older than the flood.
Yea, to my loving eye it seemeth clear
The chief adornment of your coat is mud.
Let these things pass. This silver hour of
chill
Is ours for joy before the fogs arise;
Lo, at the touch of your wet lips I thrill,
And read my future in your jaded eyes.
Your hand shall sign the cheque and pay the
bill —
So much is certain, and the rest all lies.
While you have cash, why should my soul
repine?
The sun will come e’er long to cheer the day.
Love wraps us in his mystery divine,
And our delight no passing gloom can slay;
For life’s young lustre has a glint like wine
As long as I can smile and you can pay.
n.s.w.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


BEFORE YOB FURNISH
PAY A VISIT TO MARCOS CLARK’S NEW FORNITORE SHOWROOMS.
As we stock every kind of FURNITURE and HOUSEHOBD REQUISITES,
and also PIANOS, we are in a position to Give Estimates for Furnishing
and Floorcovering throughout Homes, Hotels, Offices, Theatres, etc.
Our New Building in Railway Square is entirely devoted to Displaying
our Furniture Stock. We have Furnished Thousands of Barge and
Small Homes—may we Furnish Yours?
We Illustrate here a Handsome Bedroom Suite —“ NELL.”
£lB/15/
HI
mm
M M:
'■/l
'7/
llllllifillSlilllllflM
i
■m.
i
iii
suF.
In well-seasoned Wood, well-finished and highly-polished Stained Walnut.
4ft. Wardrobe, bevelled Mirror. 3ft. 6in. Dressing Chest, 4 Drawers, Bronze
Fittings. 3ft. 6in. M.-T. Washstand, Cupboard and Towel Rail. On Castors.
MARCUS CLARK & CO. Ltd.
"Cosy Home-Furnishers," RAILWAY SQUARE, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Accordeon with
MELLOW TONE
Is just perfection for Song Accompaniments, Dance Musio
end Picnics. The Organ-liWe Tone of these Instruments
is attained by the use of Bell Metal Reeds, which are hand-
fitted and tuned.
three popular models.
THE ORGAN TONED MELBA
3 bets 801 l Metal Reeds, price 22/6, post tree
THE DANCE KING
4 Sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 30/-. post fre<
THE PICNIC MODEL.
2 bois Bell Metal Reeds, price 15/-, post tree
OTHER MODELS FROM 7/6 TO 40/■
For Free Catalogue No. 9 write to—
?dtuu%
276 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
and also at Bendigo and Geelong.
DINNEFORD'S
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
DINNEFORD’S
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
DRALLES
\V.UJSIoyy
in the Lighthouse.
THE ORIGINAL
and Leader of all
PERFUMES
without Alcohol.
Of world fame
as the
ONE DROP
PERFUME.
jULUSIq^
JR (i, 'ill.
FAR SURPASSES
all other Scents
in its Startling
Fidelity to Nature.
The smallest drop
sufficient to
produce the
wonder f u 1,
natural aroma
of freshly
gathered flowers.
VIOLET, 5/6.
All Others, 4/6.
Violet, Lily ol the Valley, Rose, Lilac, Heliotrope, Jasmine, Mignonette,
Narcissus, Carnation, Trefoil, New Mown Hay, Wistaria.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS—INSIST ON “ DRALLE'S ILLUSION,”
Obtainable at the CIVIL SERVICE STORES and ALL LEADING CHEMISTS.
Sole Wholesale Agents: H. KUYATT, 28 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Keep Your Garden
Fresh 8 Green
by watering regularly
with a length of
WATERSHED
Red Rubber
Garden Hose.
The hose you hear so much
about. Made in GOft. coils.
x 3=Ply, 9d. ft.
fin. x 3=Ply, l/= ft.
lin. x 3=Ply, 1/5 ft.
COIL DISCOUNT.
We allow a special discount
of Ad. per ft. on all 30ft. or
GOft. lengths.
Obtainable from all leading
Storekeepers, or direct from
the Manufacturers.
rSHED
.It
C
c.
ssn
RUBBER CO. LTD.,
270 George Street, Sydney.
Also Melbourne and Adelaide.
Freedom, Ease 8 Comfort
The ...
WELMAR
Shirt
Pat. 1274
24/5/’ll.
Stocked by
Leading
Mercers and
Outfitters.
Manufactured by
Welch, Margetson 8 Co.
Pty. Ltd.
'TI
THIS MEDICI/NE CHfcST
SHOULD BE id YOOR dOdE
For the Bash H jme. where
V
the medics' man may be miles'
away, a Medicine Chest is often
ihc means of saving life. It ' ertainly
does away with calling in a doctor
minor ailment!. We pack a chest con-
taining a remedy for all ordinary illnesses
and accidents of life, prepared by a legally
qualified chemist according to the directions
of a leading physician. THERE ARE2S REME-
DIES:— Liniments and Washes for Sprains and
Bruises: Ointments for external application:
Medicines and Powders for internal taking,
with full supply of Lints, Plasrers. Bandages
etc. Mind there is no quackery about this i
Chest, any open minded doctor to whom f
Irou show it will approve of it. Packed 11
carefully & sent to any address in tke/J
.Commonwealth for Carriage
25/-
EREE OEEER-The
Home Medical Book
sent Post Free.
THE HOME
PETRIE!
MEDICINE SOPPUY
» BICHT BRISBWE
Power, Speed, Endurance—
the features that make motoring real pleasure are found in the perfect cai
—the Delaunay-Belleville.
For 50 years the firm of Delaunay-Belleville has built boilers for th# biggest
battleships of the Great Powers. The highly skilled staff necessary to can
out this important work —and whose conscientious care helped to matte tn »i
boilers famous —has been devoted to the interests of the Detail .
Belleville Car.
Their knowledge, skill and enthusiasm was unstintedly given with the most
satisfying results. In co-operation with skilled designers they have seen
mechanical efficiency with increased power, remarkable lull-climbing aI)U
silence and regularity of action in the engine, smooth-running at slow spee
and quickness in responding to the opening of the controlling throttle i
will satisfy the most critical.
Delaunay-Belleville
18-h.p. Four-Cylinder Car.
Some of the features of this car are: Four cylinders cast in pairs, with enclosed valves
Bosch dual high-tension magneto ignition. Delaunay-Belleville (patented) tow » ce
cation. Water-cooled, circulated by centrifugal pump. Patent combined jet an
carburetter, ensuring extremely slow running and flexibility. Petrol supply I „ n( j
from tank on dashboard. Rudge-Whitworth detachable wire wheels, with spare ' Rody
tyre complete. Four speeds forward, with direct drive on fourth, one reverse. j n
five-seated, Torpedo Touring Phaeton, or other types if required. Seats upnoi
best leather.
Descriptive Literature on request. Trial demonstrations arranged by appointment.
DALGETY & CO., Ltd..
Motor Garage, 130-138 Phillip Street, SYDNEY*
Agents for Daimler, F.N., Hudson, Rover, Austin, Opel, Cutting
and Marathon Cars. Halley and Commer Hotor Lorries.
Baker Electric Cars and Trucks. Wiliys Utility True


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post/ as a Newspaper.
Yoj.. 34.—N0 37G7.
THURSDAY. DECEMBER 25, 1913.
riuoE 6i>.
DECEMBER 26-3 A.M.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by AVilliam Mac-
Leod, of Musgraye and McLeod Streets,
Mosman, for The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214
George Street, Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: City 2389.
City 2380.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum .. . . .. £l6 0
Half-yearly 0 13 6
Quarterly . . . . . . . . 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings Sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some
care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official alivays is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable,, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all -contributions submitted, whether in the form
of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short
Tales of Sketches (those deoling with Australian sub-
iects. and not exceeding tivo columns in length, or,
say, SOOO words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of
MS.
To Amateurs in Black and AVhite.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, ivill be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — -i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
aritstic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don; after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon, and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
SouiAi Africa.; —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., 4)1 Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A.— Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. IK. Jewett, Utah. U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co.. San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A. ; W. E. Lehehan. 585
29th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Randolph,-and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Eg vi*t.- —lgnace Horn, “Tort Said, Egypt.
llong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Redder Street.
Ilong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (icholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tas-
mania and Neiv Zealand; and on account of Messrs.
A fkinson and Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide'—at
4/6 per doz. nett.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6|in.'
x Hin., and gelatine transparencies will be for-
warded on application. Larger metal plates can be
supplied if desired.
Postage Kates.
Single copies Tiie Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : —Throughout the Commonwealth. New Zea-
land, Fiji, British •IVew Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, 10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, 160 z., Id. Only one newspaper should be -en- ,
closed in each packet — otherwise: Boz., Id., Bioz.
to 10oz., 2id.; lOoz. to 120 z., Sd.; elsewhere, 40z.,.
Id., and id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 25, 1913.
ANOTHER FEDERAL ACT REACHES
THE ASH-BARREL.
The Privy. Council decision in the Sugar
Commission case Was cabled to Australia
last week. It dealt with the validity or other-
wise of the Royal Commissions Acts of 1902
and 1912, so far as concerned their power
to force witnesses to answer questions. Two
members of the Australian High Court—the
usual two—had held that the Acts were
valid, and likewise the questions put, under
them, to the C.S.R. Co.’s employees; the
other two members—the customary brace —
had held that the Acts wore valid, but that
the questions were not. Chief Justice Grif-
fith gave his casting vote in the inevitable
direction, and the Commonwealth appealed
to the Privy Council. The latter has now
decided that the Royal Commission Acts are
ultra vires, lock, stock and barrel. The
chief point taken, so far as can be gathered
from the weirdly-involved cable message to
the daily papers, is that neither statute nor
common law gives any Legislature the right
to so interfere with the liberty of the sub-
ject as to compel the latter to disclose facts
about his private business. It may be good
law, but, like so much else in the same line,
it is rotten justice, and pernicious in its
effect on the general welfare. As a result
of previous legal decisions, the Australian
Parliament, which was intended by its
creators to have the completest powers in re-
gard to the control and regulation of injurious
Trusts, and which, for many years, believed
that it had those powers, is almost impotent
to deal with any sort of Trust whatever.
An intra-State Trust it cannot touch at all.
And when it is remembered that the re-
cently-arrived U.S. Beef Trust is an intra-
State Trust, by reason of the fact that it is
registered in Queensland and does not, in a
legal sense, extend to more than one State,
the tragic' seriousness of this disability be-
comes apparent. And Parliament can’t in
any way interfere with even an inter-State
Trust or or Combine unless it is able
to prove what is known to the Law as “in-
tentional detriment,” which is rather more
difficult to establish to the satisfaction of a
court of justice than a simple method of
squaring the circle or producing perpetual
motion. The case showed that much
conclusively.
If a country is not in a position to exter-
minate or even curb its Trusts, injurious or
otherwise, the least it might fairly hope for
is a little information from time to time as
to how much it is being robbed of by these
organisations. Nothing is. healthier than
light. The Trust bosses will cheerfully do in
the dark things which for very shame, and
regaidless of any legal immunity they might
possess, they would shrink from perpetrat-
ing beneath the arc light of publicity. The
amount which the community at large does
not know of the way in which it is being
taken down, day in, day out, would fill a
reservoir. Commissions, which have inquired
of late into all sorts of diverse problems,
from the advisability of introducing the
Totalisator to the reasons for the rise in the
cost of living in Australia, are powerful
agents for combating this ignorance. For
example, but for the Commission which ex-
amined into the Food Supplies question in
N. S. Wales, how many would know of the
Sydney Bread Ring? This Ring is controlled
by the Master Bakers’ Association, which
from time to time fixes the price of bread in
Sydney and the suburbs. This artificially-
fixed price varies in accordance, more or less,
with tiie price of flour, which price is also
artificially fixed by the Millers’ Association.
The phrase “more or less” is used advisedly,
since, as the Commissioner noted in his re-
port, “there is no real relation between the
declared price of flour for the time being and
the price of bread.” If a rise occurs in the
declared price of flour —the declarers being,
of course, the Millers’ Ring—the Bread Ring
puts up Uvi price of bread. Often, however,
the millers inform the bakers that the. de-
clared price of flour is shortly to be raised,
but that they may have as much flour as they
want at the lower figure if they take it on
the spot. The bakers buy at the cheaper
rate ; but they lift the price of bread all the
same. Bread is costly in N. S. AA’ales, not
because the Master Bakers are thieves (as
a matter of fact, they are mostly honest), but
chiefly because the milling trade has been
driven to the use of Trust methods to save
a number of its members from extinction.
It suffers from over-capitalisation, an effect
of which is that while one mill can sell its
flour profitably at £8 a ton, another is liable
to bankruptcy if it sells at less than £lO.
The combine accordingly fixes the price at
£lO, which gives the well-run mill an ab-
surdly large profit, and the other a livelihood.
The bakers don’t object. The only party to
be prejudiced is the general public, which
pays about twice as much as it should for
its bread. It is obviously desirable that the
public should know what is going on in all
such cases—as desirable as it would be for a
private citizen to know that his home was
being burgled, or, to cite what is perhaps a
fairer- analogy, that one of his employees was
so incompetent as to be causing the'business
serious financial loss. If the milling and
baking businesses are nationalised ulti-
mately, as a matter of necessary economy, it
will be due largely to the revelations made
before the Food Supplies Commission —
revelations which never could have been
made had the witnesses acted as the Privy
Council has apparently decided that such
witnesses are at liberty to act.
* * * *
An outstanding effect of last week’s deci-
sion, is, therefore, to make Rings and Trusts,
big." and small, more unassailable than ever
•in Their operations will, so far
as can be gathered, be shrouded henceforth
in complete mystery. There will be no like-
lihood of the public being lashed to action
by a realisation of the wrongs which it
is suffering at the hands of any given
Trust, since the people are to have no fur-
ther chance of discovering anything. It
makes the necessity of anti-Trust legislation
—not the bogus, variety we now possess, but
the real, effective thing—more essential than
ever. If Australia, is not to find itself pre-
sently in the position of a person whose
wholly unlighted and unprotected home is
being rifled by a vast gang of malefactors
in, about 1500 places, its electors will need
to drop their State Rights superstition and
hand the Commonwealth Parliament enlarged
industrial powers. Australia in the bulk
must make up its mind to trust its National
Parliament to the same extent, at least, as
the individual Australian trusts the average
policeman. Let the > Constitution be' so
•amended as to give, the Commonwealth
powers in regard to the control and regula-
" tion of Trusts as effective as those which
have been held for generations by the State
Assemblies,, and last week’s Privy Council
judgment will be comparatively innocuous.
But if the Constitution is to remain un-
amended the position looks like becoming
desperate. The Combines will be doubly
armed: with the cloak of secrecy as well as
with the shield of legal immunity. Aus-
tralia will become their recognised hunting
ground, a sort of. trade Mecca; and
where Swift’s alpne is new operating we
shall have, in n short time, harpies repre-
senting the entire U.S. Trust tribe.
THE PEACE SOCIETY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now, in the tow.n of Tooralee
They formed a Peace Society ;
And they were noted near and far
From Ilitemup to Nastijar,
The folk of this Society,
For piety—true piety.
Thev met and talked from time to time,
And held all fighting was a crime,
A sin of dark variety
In ev’ry age and clime.
They scoffed and sneered at War’s alarms,
And said that folk who carried arms
Were to be pitied and despised
As.savnge ai d uncivilised,
Devoid of all humanity
Or sanity—true sanity ;
Seduced from happy, peaceful life
Bv bloody hates of gun and knife,
And led by martial vanity
To savag’ry and strife.
A.nd they declared with ve-he-mence
Against all measures for defence,
Maintaining that a peaceful pose
Was quite embarrassing to foes,
And gained for the community
Immunity—immunity.
They said no foe would ever harm
The nation that refused to arm,
Nor seize the opportunity
To raise the dread alarm.
Said they, if nations A and B
Sail battleships upon the sea,
The day will come when some excuse
They’ll coin to let the War Dogs loose,
And shock with their brutality
Morality—morality.
While nations D and E, who keep
No fighting ships upon the deep,
Preserve a’strict neutrality,
And all the blessings reap.
’Twas such a very simple plan,
Quite plain to any thinking man ;
For A and B, you understand,
Would never seek, by sea or land,
To tackle nations D or E
(In theory—good theory).
Though A and B might rend the skies
With cannon shot and battle cries,
With nation D, you see, or E
No trouble could arise.
The Peace Society soon grew
Quite popular, as such things do.
Its logic was so clear, you see.
And Michael Slattery, J.P.,
A well respected resident,
Was President —high President.
And Mr. Obadiaii Lee
Was Treasurer and Secret’ry—
Another noted resident,
As peaceful as could be.
But in the town of Tooralee
And in full many towns there be
A certain rowdy element
Which causes strife and discontent,
And often falls to bickering
When liquoring—wet liquoring.
Tim Monagin was such a one;
When sober he was full of fun,
But when he started shickering
He fairly took the bun.
Pat Lonagin, another lad
In whom the beer brought out the bad.
Had long with Monagin a feud
Which, when in liquor, he pursued.
And folk would cry, “There’s Lonagin !
He’s on agin—he’s on agin !
For all the day an’ half the night
He’s scoured the town in search iv fight.
Shure,. if he meets wid Monagin
’Twill be a dandy sight!”
The Peace Society was pained
To see this wicked feud maintained ;
And Michael Slattery, J.P.,
Suggested unto Mr. Lee
That they might, with impunity,
In unity—sweet unity—
Approach the ever-warring pair,
And reconcile them then and there.
They longed for opportunity
Their theories to air. '
The opportunity came soon ;
For on one summer afternoon
The President and Secret’ry,
The peaceful Slattery and Lee,
Came suddenly on Monagin
And Lonagin—wild Lonagin—
Engaged in sanguinary war ;
And. as they punched and kicked and tore,
Cried Monagin, “Come on agin!”
While Lonagin he swore.
The President said just one word,
’Twas all the few spectators heard ;
Then Lonagin he turned from Tim
To Slattery, and went,for him
With fierce assault and battery.
On Slattery—mild Slattery—
Came Lonagin with all his might
And landed him with left and right.
’Twould be employing flattery
To call the thing a fight.
And as for Monagin—well, he
Was busily employed with Lee,
Who wished, and with a wish immense,
He’d learnt the art of self-defence.
Blind rage and animosity,
Ferocity—ferocity—
Besieged the soul of Mr. Lee.
He longed to slay his enemy,
Who, ’spite his ebfiosity,
Was fighting mighty free.
They say the Peace Society
Is dead in distant Tooralee.
When next they met, the President
Confined his speech to one comment.
“Takes two to make a fight?” says he,
“Quite right,” says he —-‘*quite right,” says
he.
“But Peace Societies won’t do
Unless the other chap jines too!
I bid you all good night,” says he,
“As President I’m through.”
And as for Mr. Lee, he sought
A rude, uncultured man who taught
The useful art of self-defence.
He vaguely hopes that some day hence
He’ll get a battle on again
With Monagin—mad Monagin.
And then—but it were wise to state
That they who learnt the art too late
Are apt to find they’re gone again.
It isn’t wise to wait.
The lesson is a simple one:
If you refuse to buy a gun
You’ll meet your Monagin some day
And cut no figure in the fray,
Despite your notoriety
For piety—deep piety.
A foe’s a foe, howe’er you view
The matter; and it doesn’t do
To join a Peace Society
Unless he joins it too.
victoria.
DEN.
“A FULL-FLEDGED SOCIALIST
PARTY.”
Last week a N. S. Wales Laborite referred
to the possibility of a “full-fledged Socialist
party being the next to push the Holman
party out.” The Sydney Telegraph
(17/12/T3) affected to take this to mean
that the “full-fledged Socialists,” or I.WAV.
enthusiasts, were at present supporters of the
Labor party, but would be transformed into
enemies when Holman and his allies found
it impossible any longer “to feed them on
vain hopes.” The dishonesty of this line of
argument is so obvious as to be almost
pathetic. “Full-fledged Socialists” hate
Labor far more than they do Liberalism.
In fact, these extremists, being .Anarchists
and impracticable visionaries, have a strong
natural sympathy with the ultra-Tory wing
of the Liberal party, both in Federal and
State politics. The aspirations of the two
varieties of cranks are identical in a dozen
different directions. The I.WAV. section is
hostile to Arbitration and to legislative
palliatives generally; and so is advanced
Toryism. The Anarchist would rely on the
strike weapon exclusively in all industrial
rows. The Tory would be only too pleased
to meet strikes with lockouts. The full-
fledged Socialist is opposed to “conscription”
and to an Australian navy. The whole
Liberal party was furiously hostile to these
things a few years ago; and ultra-Liberals
are of the same way of thinking still.
Nominees of the I.WAV. organisation oppose
Labor candidates wherever there is a likeli-
hood of their splitting the vote with advan-
tage to Toryism. Toryism reciprocates by
turning down anything that resembles genu-
ine Liberalism, in favor of advanced Labor,
or any other old cause —as witness the atti-
tude of the reactionary wing of the Watt
party in the Victorian Assembly the other
day.
Labor in Australia does not stand for
home-bursting or communism or revolution or
any other insanity of the sort. The
alleged Tiger is essentially a sane animal.
Individual Labor Administrations may be
weak or extravagant, but the party as a
whole is proceeding in the right direction,
and the direction that the country approves.
And Liberalism must continue to go back
steadily until it makes up its mind to ad-
vance a very considerable distance along the
Labor track. Wherever the politicaFstudent
looks he finds Australian Liberalism standing
for a policy of dull, wooden, unimaginative
obstruction. In tjie Commonwealth Parlia-
ment, with a Liberal Administration, about
the most futile and profitless session on re-
cord has just come to an end. Nothing of
value has been done ; nothing has even been
seriously attempted. With the spectacle of
the American Beef Trust establishing itself
in Queensland, the need of effective Anti-
Trust legislation has become apparent to
unbiassed observers, not in Australia merely
but in the United Kingdom. But the Lib-
eral attitude is that, though no doubt Brit-
ain’s food-supply may be adversely affected
by the manoeuvres of the Trust, while'Aus-
tralia is likely to be called on ultimately to
pay extortionate prices for its meat, yet
interference with Private Enterprise is ab-
horrent. Also there is the consideration that
if the Trade and Commerce clause is amended
so as to allow of the passing of an effective
Anti-Trust Act, the Australian Parliament
may seize the chance thus given to do all
sorts of mad, inequitable things to petty
traders. It is on grounds almost equally
baseless that Federal Liberalism opposes
practically every other vital reform of the
day. And State Liberalism is mofetly in the
same disastrous boat or hulk.
* * * *
In N.S.W. last week ex-Treasurer Cann
had a few words to say about the huge for-
tunes that are coming to certain families, in
and around Sydney, by way of unearned in-
crement ; and he hinted at the prospect of
the Holman Government dealing dras- -
tically with the scandal. Immediately, there
were cries of horrified protest from Liberal-
ism. One of the party’s chief weaknesses
lies in the fact that its official leaders always
do moan bitterly in face of all such proposi-
tions. The Cooper family started acquiring
waste lands in what are now the Eastern
Suburbs of Sydney somewhere about the
Early-Victorian period. In a little while the
community, by building schools and convents
and colleges in or near their property, and
by running trams and omnibuses to it, and
by constructing in the neighborhood of it
parks and golf links and quays and swim-
ming baths and surf-sheds and hotels and ten
thousand other things of the sort, so ad-
vanced the Cooper income that the family
became Anglicised. The head of the house
is an English baronet with an English seat
and a London mansion. He was enabled,
the other day, to pave the way to. a seat in
the House of Lords by the gift of £50,0w
to the British cadet, movement—a transac-
tion that meant no more to him fhan the
disbursement of 3s. Gd. or some, such humble
sum might to the average'resident on his
Australian estate. With every y e | r tha
passes; with every yard of Eastern Suburb
railway that is built; with -.every new. tram-
way extension; and with every municipal or
other improvement which eventuates, tn
Cooper income must grow automatically
larger. The phenomenon will be due to no
thrift or foresight or genius on their nai •
Their childishly easy job will be merely t
sit down and bank the dividends while t
harassed taxpayers of N. S. Yales b° rr o
the money that goes to improve their pr*
perty. A party is not necessarily in taui
of confiscation because it is revolted at
spectacle of this sort. A large section
Liberalism is, however, by no means
volted: in fact, such spectacles appeal
this politically astigmatic crowd* as P
fectly equitable in every way. #
The direct and inevitable effect of tlijs
attitude on the part of this section of Libci


ism is to give a powerful impulse to the cause
of anarchy. The “full-fledged Socialists,” or
“Reds” or 1.W.W., or whatever one cares
to term the industrial irreconcilables, like
nothing better than the spectacle of one man
in the enjoyment of from £BO,OOO to £lOO,OOO
per annum, which he has not earned, and
which would not be his but for the efforts of
the working members of the community.
Anarchy rejoices at the all-too-often success-
ful struggles on the part of Conservatism
to check legislative inroads on these pre-
posterous revenues; the reason being that
each absurdly rich Australian family which
spends the greater part of its perpetually
growing unearned increment in England
drives fresh recruits into the ranks of com-
munism and revolution. A “full-fledged
Socialist party” can never win an election
on its own account. But with the priceless
help of blind obstruction in Tory quarters,
such a party may some time, some where,
oust the Labor Government of the day
That day may be a dark one for all con-
cerned; but as regards the representatives
or 1 ronerty, the gloom will be absolutely
Cimmerian in its inkiness.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Certain Ruffians Called Architects.
“Aedile” asks for room to swear:—
We have here in Sydney greater chances than any other
city in the world to get a beautiful skyline. Granted
that we have to change the natural beauty of our
picturesque hills, is that any reason why the coterie
ot ruffians who call themselves architects should
render it hideous, as they have rendered the archi-
tecture of Sydney streets hideous? Coming in from
-foreign parts the other day, the first thing that
struck rue was a vast new building in Macleay-street
a monstrous affair that might easily have been
made one of the most striking architectural objects
in any city in the world. How it destroys the sky-
line we ktvow from Ambassador James Bryce's con-
temptuous reference to it, and his comparison of what
he saw here with the graceful skyline and the strict
regard to landscape-beauty in Constantinople. Imag-
ine the depths we have fallen to that the Turk —the
unspeakable Turk—should be able to show us points
in architectural site-decoration! Then Martin
DonohoE corroborated this criticism—he who loves
Sydney, but knows and admires Constantinople. Yet
this Macleay-street monstrosity is not the only, or
the worst, offence. There’s a new one now disfiguring
Cremorpe Point. It’s a huge building of no archi-
tectural pretensions, and the point about it is that
it is built back-on to the water. The visitor from
abroad, entering the harbor, whose shores he has
been told are inhabited by civilised beings, sees a
horrid view of back windows and fiat walls and the
appurtenances of a house turned the wrong way.
It 'is an outrage. Surely the architect could have
faced the building round! Then, latest of all, we
have a new gigantic “flat” topping the hill in Darling-
hurst. There it sticks up like a jagged tooth invit-
ing extraction. It could easily and without the ex-
penditure of much money have been made a graceful
feature of the skyline; but, no—it must be made
hideously ugly. All even of our fine public buildings
save one or two are built with a back and a front—-
the back uncompleted, and the front not wholly
worthy of us. Some really fine buildings are wrongly
placed. • For instance, who put the Mitchell Library
where it is, instead of fitting it in the vista from
Bent-street ? They have deliberately hidden it behind
the Australian Club. Then the new Registrar-Gen-
eral’s office —a fine bit of architecture, showing off
the most beautiful building material I have seen
throughout the world —has been stuck so that it faces
nothing. It should have faced the angle of Hyde
Park, where a tree-lined avenue could have been
made leading up to it, and showing its striking fea-
tures. But enough! I turn with gratitude to the
Art Gallery, in the Domain, a perfect public build-
ing, with a back architecturally complete as well as
a front —a building placed on the crest of a hill, seen
with fine effect from the heights of Darlinghurst,
and having a beautiful frontage to the Domain. I
have, also hopes of the new Public Instruction build-
ing, which is complete and not one-sided, and not
designed with a Queen Anne front and a Mary Ann
back, so to speak. The old Darlinghurst Courthouse,
too, is a delight, and it should be preserved when
the gaol is remWerf. (Hurry up, Labor Govern-
ment !) Then the view of the dome of the Queen
Victoria Markets, seen from anywhere near The
Bulletin office, in the curve of George-street (where
the cow of the convict period slewed round a gum-
tree when she was laying out the plan of Sydney), is
a fair city vista. But I haven’t sufficient vitupera-
tion to say what I think of the Sydney Harbor Trust’s
awful doings at Circular Quay, Voolloomooloo, Dar-
ling Harbor, Gfoat Island and elsewhere; though
when I have seen how commercial wharves can be
made ornamental —as at Antwerp —I realise that
language is, at any time, a poor, inexpressive thing
to convey the thoughts that arise within me every
day in Svdney. If a builder or an architect at
Naples, Genoa, Cannes, Mentone, Messina, Hong-
kong or«any picturesque town of hills facing the sea
designed r building which had the front facing the
hill and the back lookimr on to the sea, the local
Camorra or Wi-pu-fu or Mafia would have been pro-
voked to make a clean job, and the building would
have been pulled down with public rejoicings flower
fetes by day and fireworks in the evening.
Common Sense and Sex-Diseases.
Queensland may fairly claim to be the
first English-speaking country to adopt a
common-sense method of dealing with the
venereal disease question ; though the
Health Department of New York began a
notification system two years ago, the pull
of police and municipal graft was too strong,
and the new departure was judicially ruled
to be illegal. The Bananaland crusade is
planned on lines advocated by a meeting of
experts at the Australasian Medical Con-
gress in 1911. After a bitter fight against
the adherents of the antiquated Contagious
. Diseases Act of 1564, the necessary
statutory powers were included in the
Health Act Amending Bill of - 1911.
This Bill included' eure-food legislation,
with powers ' to coerce recalcitrant and
filthy municipal councils, and other
matters of vital importance; but it was
nearly 'blocked by the senile opposition of
the ancients in the Deg. Council, who, as
usual, could not be made -to see that the
world had moved on since 1564. However,
ith-survived, and operations were begun by
the Health Department. These include
compulsory notification by medical men of
all cases sof . primary syphilis, secondary
syphilis, and 1 gonorrhoea seen by them ; a
free dispensary, opeji at convenient hours to
either sex; drastid prohibition of the treat-
ment of venereal disease by other than medi-
cal men ; free in-patient treatment of severe
cases; systematic examination of pro-
stitutes ; and powers to compel any person
of either sex who is considered by the
Health Commissioner to be infected with
venereal disease to submit to medical exami-
nation. Infected persons may be' detained
by magisterial order for further examination, -
and may also be segregated by order of the
Governor-in-Council until they are free
from infection. Prisoners may be examined
by the medical officers, and if found to be
venereally infected they can be detained irre-
spective of the length of their sentence until
they are certified as free from infection.
This and a provision for treating as a
vagrant anyone who is found to be living on
the earnings of prostitution are aimed at
the male parasites by whom the infection of
prostitutes is largely maintained and spread.
One notable feature of the scheme is the free
distribution of supplies of salvarsan (“606”),
and similar specific but expensive remedies
for syphilis, to all hospitals in the State.
The only condition attached is that a full
history of each case in which these supplies
are used shall be furnished by the hospital
surgeon to the Commissioner of Public
Health. Queensland country hospitals for-
merly had a habit of refusing admission to
sufferers_ from venereal disease, basing their
utterly illegal action on some Wowserish
notion of “morality.” A peremptory ukase
from Home Secretary AprEL to these State-
aided institutions put a prompt stop to this
mediaeval practice. Solicitation by prosti-
tutes in public places is forbidden by law,
and residence in a house of ill-fame is pun-
ishable by fine or imprisonment. In the
case of girls or women, magistrates may
substitute a term in a reformatory, or may
release the offender conditionally upon good
behavior for a specified period. 'Any person,
of either sex, who knowingly infects any
other person with venereal disease is liable
to a term of gaol. This, in the hands of a
conscientious doctor, affords-, a potent weapon
against these a]l-too-frequent cases where
tne health of a young Australian woman
has been ruined irreparably by a man who
on the eve of marriage decides to “risk it.”
despite medical warnings as to the probable
consequences of his action. The Health De-
partment _ distributes a straightforward,
simply-written. pamphlet on venereal dis-
eases, for distribution to sufferers by doctors
and chemists, and through any other avail-
able channel. So far, the notification sections
have been applied to the Brisbane metro-
politan area only, but the evident intention
is to extend them to other principal centres
as soon as the plan has been tried out.
.~he underlying object of the scheme in all
its phases is to attack venereal diseases on
tne lines that have served to control other
communicable diseases. The old Contagious
Diseases Acts mostly attacked a few of the
vic^ims of these diseases, and did
nothing to prevent spread by infected males.
Z J-TA P"Yateer” class of clandestine
piostitute. This was about as sensible as it
would be to quarantine a few of the men in
" small-pox-infected vessel and to let the
women go.
A Farcical Act.
Fbom “10-2-4” :
J. just emerged from a study of the Act under
yKy h K N \ S \ Wales held its last elections. Without
a doubt, it is ripe for the rubbish-tip. The principle
°f_ the second ballot is stupid and pernicious in itself
a remark that was made repeatedly in The Bul-
fnTr’Tl when , , th , e Wade Government first set about
introducing that form of voting to N. S Wales four
years ago. The second ballot provides the same
opportunities for intrigue, bribery and corruption,
and political villainy generally as the Liberal sys-
, *t lect I n £ Pf r ty candidates; and the expres-
on the People s will—in the rare cases where
the People happen to have a will— is liable to be
frustrated by it under innumerable circumstances that
may be readily understood.
But it is when one goes into details that the mani-
fold imbecilities of the Parliamentary Electorates and
Elections Act (1912) —which consolidates and re-
enacts a number of other electoral Acts, amongst
them the Second Ballot Act (1910) —-become appar-
ent. For example, Section 81 says that “no polling-
place shall be created or abolished after the issue
of the writ.’ It is easy to see the point of this
proviso. The inexplicable thing is that, the Act stops
there. Nowhere is it mentioned what will happen
to the candidate or to the election or to the
returning-officer or to the Government if a dozen
new polling-booths are erected and all the old ones
abolished. The candidate is not disqualified; the
election is not voided; no one goes to gaol. The
Act just lays it down firmly that the change mustn’t
occur, and thereafter, falls into a profound silence.
It is as though the criminal law solemnly forbade a
man to commit murder, but imposed no penalty what-
ever for the crime.
Section 143 says that “at the second ballot the
polling-places ’ appointed for the first ballot shall be
used.” There is a splendid vagueness about this
item. Does it mean that only those polling-places
which were used in the particular electorate concerned
shall be used, or that the ones which were open
throughout the whole State during the first ballot
must be re-opened ? It is an interesting point for
the lawyers. To the writer it seems that all the
polling-places everywhere should have been made
available. The authorities decided, however, last
week, and the week before, that only those polling-
booths should be open which were in electorates
where second- ballots were being held. That decision
meant necessarily that thousands of people were dis-
franchised. The fact was established in every one
of the metropolitan constituencies affected on the
Saturday before last, and in an even greater degree
in the country electorates where the vote was taken
last week. In seats like Enmore and Willoughby and
Waverley, where the absentee vote ran in each case
to hundreds on the first ballot, it scarcely amounted
to tens cn the second. There might have been a
dozen St. George electors in Bathurst or Cooma on
the day W. H. Wood received his quietus ; yet none
of them would have been allowed to vote as an
absentee, the local booths being closed. On last
Saturday every country elector who chanced to be in
Sydney for the holidays was debarred from register-
ing his vote for a constituency where a second ballot
was proceeding, an absurd result of the Government’s
interpretation of the law.
Talking of the absentee vote, if any scheme was
ever devised that- is more likely than this to lay
the way open to chicanery and plain swindling, I
should like, as a matter of curiosity, to be intro-
duced to it. There are two sorts of absentees under
the Act. There, is the genuine absentee, meaning the
person who is actually outside his electorate at the
time the .poll* is taking place; and there is
what one may the local absentee. To take the
genuine absenteeTfrrstV h)s hope of recording an
effective vote , two factors—(l) his own
knowledge of the'fine "points of the Act; and (2) the
.intelligence and' honesty of .the presiding officer. The
average elector, absentee or otherwise, knows little of
the Electoral Act;.has but a moderate stock of clever-
ness; and is liable'.totbe afflicted slightly with stage-
fright when he gets inside .the booth. If the presid-
ing officer ; puts his initials, let us say, instead of
signing his name in full-on the absentee’s ballot
papers, they are thereby rendered informal. A dull
or ignorant or casual or nervous voter would be
unlilvely to notice this Igpse.. If he did notice it,
not know that a wrong had been done his
candidate. • Again, an unintelligent presiding officer
might- initial hundreds of absentee votes by reason of
shOer ignorance, and so turn an election. And,
finally, there is the possibility of a strong and un-
scrupulous party man getting control of a booth.
Such a one, assuming he was a Liberal, might be
relied on to deliberately invalidate every vote that
came palpably from the local deviation works ; while
if-he Impugned to.'be a Laborite, he would see to it
that the franchises of the loathly local squatters and
doctors went for naught.
Thp local absentee is -differently situated. It is
_ open to him. to. go into any polling place in his
electorate,' make a declaration before the presiding
officer in the terms of schedule 9, and vote. By
this arrangement William Jones can rise up bright
and early on polling morn, and, having first ascer-
tained the names of a few dozen men who are either
dead or absent from the constituency, vote till he is
weary. lie votes at Blight-street booth as Smith, at
the Methodist chapel as Brown, at the Public School-
house as O’Leary, and at the local Town Hall
as McPherson. So far as the unhappy candidate
whom he is opposing is concerned, the moment these
various votes go into the ballot-box that is an end
of the matter. They have to be counted, the bogus
equally with the genuine. Remains the chance of
the impersonator being discovered and punished.
This is an extremely remote possibility—-more especi-
ally in a crowded city constituency.
A dozen more anomalies might be cited, but the
above should do. The greater part of the Parlia-
mentary Electorates and Elections Act cumbers the
political earth ; and the Second Ballot portion of it
a calamity. It is to be hoped that one
of the Holman Government’s first Parliamentary
moves will be to reform the entire absurdity out of
existence.
Science and Sydney University.
The N. S. Wales Public School Teachers’
Union has issued another manifesto, lament-
ing the undemocratic nature of the Sydney
university, particularly in regard to evening
science lectures. Says the Union :
The petition of 100 students in 1910 and 1911
for the establishment of evening science lectures, was
refused because of “insufficient room’’! The atti-
tude of the University to evening science lectures
is too farcical even for laughter ; it borders on the
tragic. Not even one course in science will the
University add to the annual courses Of evening lec-
tures ! Industrial inefficiency is the rock on which
the chariot of the State will yet come to grief. The
Senate, by its attitude to evening science lectures
for the bright students of the workshop and labora-
tory, the soap works, and the dye works, the mill
and the factory, has shown that it is out- of touch
with the nation, oblivious of economic need, a costly,
inert, inefficient body, controlling an unwieldy,
lethargic, undemocratic University.
But the Union trips over the facts when it
states that “the average number of science
graduates _ turned out of the University
annually is six.” A fair inference from
that is that the Science Faculty is being run
for the benefit of six students in each of
the three years of the science course. As a
matter of fact, there are at present 23
science students doing first-year work, 22
at second-year work and 21 at third-year
work, a total of 67, who are qualifying for the
science degree. In addition, 10 students
are doing research work. There is, indeed,
little room for complaint as to the work of
the Science Faculty as far as day students
are concerned; nevertheless the Union is
entitled to kick against the refusal of the
Senate to provide facilities for evening stu-
dents to take the science degree. For the
Senate, it is argued (1) that evening stu-
dents would not be able to devote the time
to the necessary practical work within the
three years, and 12 months would have to
be added to the period of study; (2) that
additional laboratories, apparatus, lecturers
and demonstrators would be required. To
that the complete reply is that (1) the Uni-
versity exists to meet the convenience of
students, and (2) the more scientific equip-
ment the country calls for the better. At
the same time, the students (who do not
object to a lengthened course) say that
existing conveniences would be sufficient for
a considerable extension of the present
work.
—
Australian Law and Foreign Interpreta-
tion.
The Privy Council’s decision in the Sugar
Commission case was a paralyser to lawyers
all over Australia. The prevailing idea is
that there has been a reporter's error or a
stupendous cabler’s mistake, or something of
that sort. Also, possibly, there may be a
vast hiatus somewhere, the filling of which
would alter the sense and elucidate much
that is at present a mystery. Amongst a
number of novel propositions, not to say
rank absurdities, is the following:—
The question at the root of the controversy, how-
ever, remained: Were the Commissions Acts intra
vires f The burden of proof rested with those affirm-
ing that the Acts were within the Commonwealth
Parliament’s powers.
This is about the first time in history that
any Court or other authority has seriously
laid down the principle that the burden is on
the litigant to show that the measure on
which he is relying is intra vires. Hitherto
it has been taken for granted by all parties
that any given Act is valid till it has been
shown to be otherwise. Last week’s de-
cision, if it has been correctly reported,
upends this, and so gives rise to a
weird situation. In future, in any
litigation under Commonwealth law, the
case proper will be liable to be preceded by
elaborate argument as to whether the Act is
good or otherwise. The proceedings will
then necessarily be held up till this question
has been settled; and, incidentally, the
business of the Court will be delayed. As a
sort of side line, such a case, being a Con-
stitutional one, will require to be argued
before a full bench of judges; and whichever
way the decision goes, the problem may be
sent on to the Privy Council for final deter-
mination. A more admirable means of pro-
longing simple disputes it would be hard to
conceive. With skilful handling the pal-
triest of legal rows should now be capable of
being dragged out for years, to the ruin of
all hands concerned —barring, of course, the
members of the legal profession. What
must strike the ordinary citizen as utterly
ridiculous and illogical is that the ultimate
word on any Australian Constitutional issue
should be spoken in London. The members
of the Privy Council themselves recognised
the anomaly, by the look of the cable. They
“hesitated to differ from the High Court
Judges, particularly the Chief Justice, Sir
Samuel Griffith, and Mr. Justice Bar-
ton, who had special knowledge of the Aus-
tralian Constitution.” To send an Australian
Constitutional case away from a Bench whose
occupants are steeped in the local Constitu-
tion, from the fact that most of them helped
to frame it, and to lay it before a British
Bench which is wholly unused to interpret-
ing a Constitution, and which in any case
has never taken much interest in the Aus-
tralian instrument, is rather like importing
a Frenchman to referee a game of football
under Australian rules. The procedure, in
brief, is absurd.
A Conspiracy of Silence.
Within the last few days some well-mean-
ing people have plastered the hoardings of
Sydney with warnings on the subject of the
White Slave trade. The betting is all
George-street to a fragment of blue metal
that no such trade exists anywhere in Aus-
tralia. Not’ a solitary white slave has been
rescued from her dreadful lot by those whose
business it is to hunt out such unfortunates.
There is no recorded case of a White Slaver
having been captured and gaoled. The trade,
if it prevails even in the most insignificant
form imaginable, must be a perfect miracle
of successful furtiveness. But as to the
existence of what we may term the syphilis
trade there js not the smallest shadow of a
doubt. It is not even a “hidden” plague,
as apologists for a policy of silence on the
subject often allege. Its presence is made
evident on all sides by the agency of unhappy
beings with disfigured faces, loathsome skin
diseases, shattered nerves and distorted
bodies. It is commoner than cancer, or
tynhoid, or diphtheria, or even phthisis, and
more agonising in its ultimate effects than
any of them. The sufferer from (say)
small-pox has at least the consolation of
knowing that if he manages to defeat the
disease there is an end of the matter. The
syphilis patient is never sure that the lives
of those nearest and dearest to him may not
be destroyed as the outcome of his misfor-
tune. That is one of the reasons why it is
ten thousand times more important in a
national sense that the city hoardings should
be placarded with information about syphilis
than that they should supply the derisive
passer-by with futile tips on the White Slave
problem. Unfortunately the time is not ripe
for a startling move of this sort, by the
present look of things; which makes it all
the more urgent that the newspapers should
do their duty in the matter. They can hurry
on a reform, which must in any case arrive
fairly soon now, by calling tirelessly on the
Government of the day for preventive mea-
sures against what they are wont to*
call the red plague, as drastic as those that
are in vogue with respect to such compara-
tively trifling ailments as diphtheria and
typhoid ; and they may save a lot of misery
by using the same plain language on the
syphilis question as they used last month
and the month before concerning small-pox.
To bring the beginning of the anti-syphilis
crusade a month or even a week nearer
would be to do an incalculable service to>
humanity. It can only be done by ending
what bydney Evening News the other day
rightly called “the conspiracy of silence.’”
Ibis should be easy to the most conservative
ot sheets, since shamefacedness on this topic-
hasn t even the merit of being the journalistic-
fashion any longer. The London Times:
and Daily Mail have taken to dis-
cussing the syphilis horror quite openly -
the English Review and the New Review
have published recently the most plain-spoken
remarks conceivable on the same question
and the other day the Melbourne Age took
uo the running. It is not too much to say
that on the morning when the last stalwart
of newspaper conservatism prints for the ulti-
mate time the phrase “a certain disease,”
the main barrier against the assault upon
syphilis will go down.
♦
Briee though its existence was, Victoria’s
first Labor Government did one good thing
when Chief-Secretary Prendergast ordered
the police to desist from that refuge of tired
or incompetent officers, the “third degree”
examination, which consists in pumping a
suspected person until he or she is so ex-
hausted as not to know what is being said,
and then committing an alleged statement to
paper and getting the victim to sign it. In
defending their resort to the practice, the
police instanced the case of the women who
recently defrauded the Commonwealth by
forging baby-bonus claims. The detectives
admit that they had the two accused under
“a vigorous examination” from 9 a.m. on
one day to 4.30 a.m. the next, and that it
was only the information thus obtained that
ensured their conviction. In other words,
being too lazy or incompetent to sheet the
offence home to the accused, the police
adopted a species of torture until the accused
were driven to sheet the offence home to
themselves. In the open an accused is
warned that he is not bound to say anything
to commit himself; in the seclusion of the
police office he is badgered and bullied until
he does say something to commit himself.
The system is villainously unfair, and nobody
but a weary Murray would have put up with
its gradual extension during the Jast few
years.
One night last week, in Sydney, the impos-
ing Canada Building burst into flame, and
within half an hour it was a raging volcano,
belching smoke and flame. The building
was quite new, and might reasonably have
been suspected of being fire : proof. But it
wasn’t, and in three hours it was reduced
to a tottering ruin. Happily there was no
loss of life,, though the caretaker had to
drive an electric lift through the floor that
was on fire, and escape with his family by
the skin of the teeth. Had the fire been on
the ground floor he would have dropped into
an oven. Fortunately, it was not on that floor.
And fortunately, also, the blaze took place by
night: had it been by day, when every floor
would have been more or less thronged with
people, the chances are there would have
been scores of charred human remains
among the ruins. For the Sydney citizen
and the country visitor the point of import-
ance is that this modern building, .though
perhaps as good as most, was not as fire-
proof as human ingenuity could make it.
What the fireproof building should be is
for the experts to say; and the sooner they
are called in to decide, and the sooner the
authorities compel adherence to the stan-
dard laid down by them, the less risk we
will run of being grilled citizens. It is
understood to be most unpleasant to be a
grilled citizen. ‘ • >
♦ —_ . 1
“Shipmate” : While every precaution njust
be taken to preserve passengers’ lives; ithe
lives of seamen evidently don’t count- a
broken biscuit. It is a recognised tiling
nowadays that passenger boats .should Ijave
a wireless outfit to ring up the fire brigade,
or vociferate any other necessity of 'the
moment, and most passengers would as soon
think of going to sea in a ship without en-
gines as without wireless. That, of course,
is only natural after the newspaper ’.columns
that have been published about sea accidents
in which , all, the passengers would'have been
roasted alive in a fire-ship, or frozen dead in
icy water, if the wireless had not b°en
there to sing out for S.O.S. assistance. But.
how many cargo boats carry the spark? And
why don’t they all do it? Of course one
Titanic millionaire could buy up enough
cheap sailor-men to man a full-sized fleet, but


THE POLICY OF THE GOVERNMENT
IS BACKED BY THE SOUND
JUDGMENT OF THE PEOPLE.
*
>T
F Bstab 1742
“A WHITE AUSTRALIA
... and . . .
“MACKIE’S
WHITE HORSE WHISKY.
A GRAND DOUBLE.
The Famous
PICTURE BLOCK THEATRES
SYDNEY’S PICTURE
CENTRE.
COL
LONIAL THE
CONTINUOUS 11*1
Km
COLiONIAIy.
CKYST
CRYSTAL PALACE.
HK
>1 Ml in
rwl
_ 1-
if 11
empress.
Famous the World over for their LUXURIOUS APPOINTMENTS.
SHOWING ONLY NEWEST 8 BEST PHOTO PLAYS.
Popular Prices-
Continuous —11 a-
1. to 1/-
to 11 P m '
The Greater J. D. Williams Amusement Co., TAd. W. Barrington Miller. General Manage^
each A.B.’s life is just as much to him and
to his wife and kids as the millionaire’s is to
him and his millionairess. As it has been
proved clearly enough that the spark is
often the only possible chance of saving life
on a disabled steamer, can anyone blame the
English seamen for delivering an ultimatum
that after a certain date they will refuse to
sail on any boat that isn’t able to yell “Mur-
der” if a rock hits her below the belt, or some
idiot drops a match in the haystack, or other
combustible part of the outfit?
The N. S. Wales Government has won a
great victory over an aged public servant,
who for 25 years drove a pump. This officer
was appointed by the Governor-in-Council
under the Sydney Abattoirs Act of 1877. In
1895 the Public Service Board came into
power ; in 1896 it graded all the public ser-
vants, wrote their names in a book, and
published it as a record. The steam pumper,
after noting that his name was in the list,
went on pumping for eight years, when the
age limit was reached. Thereabouts he re-
ceived a letter from the Board of Health dis-
pensing with his services. He argued that
he was “retired” under the P.S. Act, and
therefore entitled to a gratuity. The Govern-
ment retorted that he was dispensed with by
the Board of Health, and that the Board of
Health was not liable to pay gratuities to
old servants. After a weary course of liti-
gation the High Court has decided against
the venerable on the ground that he was
not and never had been a servant of the
Public Service Board, the fact that the
Board had said he was being an unfortunate
mistake. In entering judgment the High
Court refused, to make an order for costs.
Thus, while the aged pump expert does not
get his gratuity, the State pays the money
just the same, but to the lawyer. In other
words, Ijaw is nourished even though Justice
starves.
Willy Watt has two ex-Premiers in his
new Victorian Ministry—Jack Murray and
Alec Peacock. Murray takes his old Chief
Secretary’s job, in which he could do good
work if he were only half as energetic as he
used to be; Peacock takes the Education
office, which he first managed 21 years ago.
Shiels put him there in the first place be-
cause he had started working life as a public-
school teacher. Billson having been dropped,
Drysdale Brown is made Mines Minister;
and it will be a relief, anyway, to get him
out of the Law office. Donald Mackinnon
goes there. “Big Bill” Baillieu, who is too
busy money-making to take a portfolio,
nevertheless “leads” for the new crowd in the
Council,
The personnel of N. S. Wales Assembly is
rapidly changing. Of the 90 members re-
turned in October, 1910, only 64 are in the
newly-elected House. Of the 90 who lined
up in 1904 (less than 10 years ago) 58 have
faded from the sound of the division bells.
At this rate Ma will have a brand-new As-
sembly in about six years’ time. It’s slow,
but apparently reliable.
Burns Philp’s guide, “Picturesque Travel”
for 1914, contains the usual fund of general
information for the globe-trotter, as well as
photos and letterpress for the traveller who
confines his to the morning and even-
ing ferry trips. And not the least satisfac-
tory thing about it is that the book is a
wholly Australian production.
The famous portrait of Mona Lisa, stolen
from the Paris Louvre, has been recovered ;
and the Italian workman who did the steal-
ing seems to have got mixed in his explana-
tions. Firstly, he said that he took the
painting in revenge for Napoleon’s looting of
Italian masterpieces. Next day he pro-
fessed to have done it with the idea of get-
ting enough money to provide a modest
competency for his aged parents. In cither
case he was a fool for his pains. For two
years he kept the stolen treasure in conceal-
ment, and as soon as he offered it for sale he
was of course arrested. No work of art has
any considerable value outside of art-loving
circles, and any sort of connoisseur was
bound to know that Leonardo da Vinci’s
famous picture had been stolen.
The new size and style of The Lone Hand
Magazine has proved very popular. Though
several thousand extra copies of the first
number were printed, the issue was sold
right out.
“Bills”: N.S.W. Full Court has upset
with Costs a decision of Judge Murray that
income earned in N. S. Wales as dividends on
shares in a co. registered in London is liable
to income tax in the Ma State. The co.’s retail
operations are confined to Sydney. The
head office is nominally in London, but four
of the directors, including the managing
director, reside in Sydney. The dividend is
ascertained in Sydney and paid in Sydney
to 200 N.S.W. shareholders; nominally, it
is declared in London, where it is paid to
600 English shareholders. The Full Court
has decided that as the co. is registered in
London, income paid in Sydney out of
profits made in Sydney from goods sold in
Sydney, is not taxable in the State. It is
good law perhaps, but hardly satisfactory
from N.S.W.’s point of view. The co. doesn’t
look to the London policemen to protect their
goods or to the London fire brigades to save
their premises.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Man and Superman.”
linn Majesty’s “Come Over Here.”
Palace-. “A Day at the Races.”
Adelphi “Aladdin.”
Criterion... “Officer 666.”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
National Amphitheatre Brennan-Fuller’s V audeville.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric 1
Colonial.. V Continuous Pictures.
Empress. , J
Crystal Palace Continuous Pictures, etc.
Olympia... £ West’s Pictures.
Glaciarium /
Imperial... Moving Pictures.
White City Various Shows.
Eden Gardens, Manly. The Dandies.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Tler Majesty’s “The Forty Thieves.”
Princess’s “Uncle Tom’s Cabin.”
King’s “The Land of Nod.”
Royai “Monsieur Beaucaire.”
Majestic Amalgamated Pictures.
Opera House ...Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
West’s Palace West's Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Esplanade, St. Kilda. . The Dandies.
+
Australia saw its first Revue at Her
Majesty’s, Sydney, on Saturday night. As a
spectacle the new show is exquisite; it is
the biggest, the most picturesque, and pro-
bably the most costly thing on pantomime
lines that has been done in Australia. The
two chief sensations —a race between a
motor-car and a train, and the apparent
drowning of a herd of show girls at Manly—
are highlv ingenious, though they are not in
the least convincing. The furious motor-
car emerges in a right cautious fashion
from the heart of the stage darkness ; and the
train does not suggest by its conduct the
wild onrush of so much as a suburban steam
tram. But enough of carping. The people
who are allured by this, the penny-dreadful-
ism of the stage, get their pleasure along
the same lines as Dr. Johnson’s friends
who watched the performing dogs or fleas
or whatever the creatures were: they marvel
not at the) skill with which the deeds are
done, but at the fact that they should be
done at all. The charm of “Come Over
Here” does not lie in its sensations, any-
how, but in its scenic effects ; in its ballets
with their gorgeous color-schemes and their
perfectly-trained regiments of skilled
dancers ; in its queer, disturbing atmosphere
of abandonment and unexpectedness, due
possibly to the lawless way in which the
performers keep arising from the midst of
the audience ; and in its charmingly dressed
—or undressed, as the case may be —show
girls. By the way, the Revue habit of bring-
ing the show girls away from the footlights’
deceptive glare, and landing them practic-
ally on top of their male worshippers in the
stalls, is likely to have a powerful influence
for moral good. Some of the really beautiful
ones—Nance Anderson, Tina Breon, and so
on —contrive to continue to be beautiful de-
suite their nearness to the audience and the
“COME OVER HERE," AT HER
MAJESTY'S, SYDNEY.
Not Futurist statuary—merely Jack Cannot and
Johnny Osborne as “ The Dying Gladiators."
abysmal depth of the make-up which is
visible on their faces. But a deplorably large
number of others, who used to look absolute
gems while supporting a property pillar in
the mellow middle distance of a ballroom
or Royal Palace scene, turn out on close
scrutiny to be as plain as habitual chapel-
goers. It is sheeted home mercilessly to the
stunned bald-head that the average chorus-
girl 'has weight, et prceterca nihil. And so
is ’-et another of life’s fair illusions blasted.
Where “Come Over Here” fails mis-
erably is in its fugitive and halting
efforts to review current happenings in a
lightsome spirit. An Attic audience of 2000
years ago, or more, would unhesitatingly
have stoned those responsible for such
banalities, while an educated Parisian crowd
would be liable to register its disapproval
of the whole fatuous business by tearing the
theatre to pieces and burning the remains.
The gags are not even up to normal panto-
mime form. Parliamentary satire is repre-
sented by a pointless shouting match be-
tween C. G. Wade —a depressed character
who has never been known to do anything
more politically uproarious than moan about
his wrongs and hint darkly at the moral in-
famy of the enemy—and mild James
McGowen, who never shrieked at anyone,
even in the long dead past, when he was
Premier, and who i& gentler than ever
now that he is a mere subordinate.
Social comment takes The form chiefly of a
grotesque presentment of George Reid. If
Reiu destroys his pantomime double dur-
ing the week he should be able to plead
the unwritten law with some success. Are
these the sort of imbecilities that the Aus-
tralian public really wants? Or is it the
managerial theory that the national infcllect
has become atrophied as a result of 20
years of musical comedy?
Jack Cannot, born comedian and good
artist though he is, makes heavy weather of
it in a part that should suit him down to
the ground—or he was doing so when this
paper saw him. Probably, by now-, however,
he is. cheering things up w-ith all sorts of
amusing and demented business. He has a
song, idiotic as to its words, but w-ith a
“COME OVER
HERE," AT
HER
MAJESTY'S,
SYDNEY.
The musical
Leslie does not
appreciate inter-
ruptions from the
audience?.
catchy refrain, that the gods were intoning
delightedly before their inevitable lesson had
been in progress 10 minutes. Johnny Os-
borne, the other comedian, plays a nigger.
He commits the offence on Christy Minstrel
lines. His name is Tobias. From time to
time he sings. The writer has no ill-will
towards Osborne, but he is forced to men-
tion that the latter’s doings brought back
poignantly his (the writer’s) perished youth,
and filled him with gloom. Miss Daisy
Jerome is a frenetically energetic young
woman who sings ragtime songs even better
with her face than, she does with her voice.
Maiden shyness of the early-Victorian brand,
and a humility that is almost self-abase-
ment, are her strong suits. She has some
effective numbers—the sort of innocuous
hack-parlor morsels that are suited to her
temperament. Charlie Stone and Leslie
Holland are as The Bulletin has known
them for years past, a wary, non-committal
comment that may also be applied to Ed:
mond Sherras, Louis Victor, Claude Bantock
and others. Ivy Schilling and Fred Leslie
supply a superb dance in the second act —
perhaps the most beautiful feature of a pro-
duction that is full of scenic beauties. And
finally, Miss Collison and Miss Winnie Volt
are charming. “Come Over Here” has no
plot; and at the end of it the ordinary
human being will be delighted, never to hear
a ragtime melody again.
Julius Knight has come back to the Syd-
ney that loves him; and on Saturday, in
Shaw’s “Man and Superman,” he offended
all the people who read playa by wearing his
own face instead of the whiskers that are
prescribed by the author. From a strictly
Julius Knight point of view, he was right.
Julius might easily be ruined by a set of
Dundrearys, while “a full set” (to quote
Frank Richardson) might obliterate him for
ever. Furthermore, Shaw’s third act was
dropped, leaving a blank space and a dis-
location M the later remarks ; but the only
really regrettable effect was the consequent
absence from the play of the low-comedy
brigand who inhabits the Sierra Nevada
scenery thereabouts. Julius Knight, as
Tanner, gets inside the character of the ver-
bose Socialist, who, when he has almost
finished talking, subsides to the blandish-
ments of the pursuing Ann Whitefield. Ann,
by the way, is now accepted quite placidly
by a world which a few years ago would
have rejected her angrily as a monstrosity
and a libel on the sex. Up to the time of
Ann (and Shaw), Woman was supposed to
be the timid quarry fleeina. from the hunter
Man. Irene Brown, as Ann, cat-sprints after
the talking Tanner in a natural manner, and
curls up gracefully in the last scene when
she has got him squeaking under her velvet
paws. It is a graceful performance through-
out. Greenaway, as the Gdhkney chauffeur,
gets in some strong character work' T«,r
Victor, as the stodgy Kamsden, hands' out £
hall-marked goods as usual; and Marffi
Lewis, as Octavius Robinson, keens T.n”
gentle flow of tears. J. Rlumpton Wifi £
occasionally Irish as the elder Malone- h,?
Lmma Temple, as Miss Ramsden, is delW
ful all the time. Mary Goulden (V®'
and Maggie Knight (Ann’s mother) ar e
both excellent. Finally, a couple of stifi
men with sandbags might be stationed at ,
various doors to attend to the trampingUv
ages who come in late and wade through
feet to their reservations. O n Saturn!,,
evening these barbarians were worse than
** * *
A travelling critic not long ago said of the
Australian that he had no appreciation nf
humor, but that critic had never been in
theatre when a U.S. comedian was kickin!
another humorist from the greatest country
in the Yewmverse on his pneumatic stomach
to the accompaniment of a bass drum “A
Day at the Races” is of the same type as
‘‘The Grafters,” which was strong on the
pneumatic stomach. But it has many like
abilities. Bert Le Blanc, one of the most
energetic and popular comedians that the
Palace has sheltered, received a welcome on
Saturday night that would justify him in
hinting to Bilanderson something about the
increased cost- of living. Encores of the
songs, dances, choruses ami ballets were the
last and loudest proof of the appreciation
of the packed house, and in face of that
there is nothing to be said. It appears likely
that the town will take to “A Day at the
Races” as it did to “The Grafters, and if
that is so even offers of free seats at the
Linnean Society’s lectures won’t stop the
stampede.
Clara Butt and her Kennerley Rumford
came back to Sydney Town Hall on Satur-
day night for the first of three positively
final farewell concerts. Except that Mr.
Rumford’s bracketed trio of Brahms “Seri-
ous Songs” were a trifle too heavy for him,
the programme was a most admirable one’
and the artist in every case was well up to
concert pitch. Murdoch and Mowat Carter
supplied the instrumental numbers, and
Mowat Carter earned a special posy for him-
self.
Willoughby’s dramatic co., at the Adelphi
Theatre, closed its season there on Satur-
day, and the place was shut until Wednes-
day night, so that the panto. “Aladdin”
could be given the finishing touches. Tiie
Bulletin is unable to make a few observa-
tions on the show this week, owing to ina-
bility to alter (1) the calendar, (2) the
opening date of “Aladdin,” (3) the day of
publication.
“Officer 666,” who is alleged to be “a
scream” will arrive from the United States,
handcuffed to Fred Niblo and Miss Josephine
Cohan, on Boxing Day. His first public
appearance will be at a Criterion matinee.
For the indigestible year-end the Tivoli
(Sydney) has decorated its bill with Joseph-
ine Davis, a young American entertainer
whose press notices from the big cities of
the Old World are hereby endorsed. Before
her arrival it was stated as an inducement
for general interest that her work was
“something like Nella Webb’s” ; but there is
a good deal of difference. Josephine Davis
has an artistic method of delivering her
songs and illustrating them with touches of
characterisation that Nella Webb knew not.
In case anybody reckons Josephine isn’t
enough for the money, it may be hurriedly
explained that Hawley and co. (with a fine
sketch, “The Bandit”), Du Calion (the
nerve thrilling ladder balancer), the Pas-
quils, Barton and Ashley and half a dozen
other notables in their business are filling in
the blanks.
Like other Sydney shows the National
Amphitheatre is running an unusually big
programme for Christmas and New Year.
Apart from mere human amusement-makers,
the services of a party of gentlemanly
roosters have been accepted, as well as those
of a herd of bears and dogs. Manager
Fuller knows more about performing pigs,
cats (quadrupeds and others), monkeys,
donkeys, fowls and miscellaneous animals than
any show-man in the city, and he says the
roosters at present throwing handsprings at
the Amphi. are the best to date. No extra
charge will be made at the doors to those
desirous of verifying the statement.
Special programmes are marking the fowl
season at Sydney picture houses. At the
Crystal Palace the big feature is a Kalem
film entitled “The Man Who Vanished,” a
dramatic story of the troubles that beset an
heir to a fortune before he could finger the
gilt. The Lyric stars a drama of love ana
marriage, and the desire for forbidden
apples; the Colonial, a story of revenge
from South America, where the savage peons
hang out. At Spencer’s, on Boxing Night,
an adaptation of Dickens’s “Christmas
Carol” will be shown, with Seymour Hicks
as Ebenezer Scrooge. The Glaciarium is
housing the picture that set London talking,
“The Miracle”; the Olympia has “The Mas-


THe World's Best.
DAIMLER
Motor Lorry.
•Silent Knight Engine.
Shaft Drive No Chains-
SUNSHINE
Motor Cars P’t’y
Melbourne.
Hugh V. McKay, Sydney & Adelaid
Sole
Agents.
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
Pitt & King Streets, SYDNEY.
Victorian Branch : 50 Queen Street, Melbourne. s . J. fowler, Manager.
Queensland Branch : 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane, j. A . watson, Manager. .
FIRE, ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, etc.
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
’Phone No. 236 Central. SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
6^
v
fjOORD&Soiy
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
%
DT
i
jSVVIi r&■ COMPANY, AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS, OCONNJ£i,I/ SYDNEY
trel” (a very good one), and the Imperial is
finding work for‘‘Sister Beatrix” ( a twin or
first-cousin of “The Miracle”).
** * *
The \\ hite City is still at the old address
in Rushcutter’s Bay (Sydney), and every-
body is welcome. The management desires
it to be known that any employee refusing
admittance to sober, respectable citizens will
be promptly discharged. The mere sordid
money to be coughed up at the gate and
side shows is mentioned incidentally in the
advertisement.
Melbourne s panto, this year is somewhat
less bulky and more patchy than usual, whilst
the general effect also is somewhat different.
Although the disembowelled version of “The
Forty Thieves” ends as vaguely as it begins,
there is at least one brief period when the
performance appeals to the imagination. In
the cave of those fair, slim and 40 ladylike
criminals, the dramatic action, poetic dan-
cing, and brilliant final tableau are true to
the spirit of the old story. The forcible
actirnr of Atholwood in this scene explains
how he came to get into such strange com-
pany. On the other hand, some of the other
members fail to account for their engage-
ment. Maude Terry, as Morgiana, is con-
spicuously out of place, and a prettily-
trimmed ballad falls flat from her lips. Nor
is Jessie Lonnen a sufficiently strong Ganem
to carry so weak a Morgiana through their
love duets. Began and Ryan are a painful
pair of alleged comedians, but the conven-
tional American fooling of the Three Rubes
is good of its kind. The Rubes are an inter-
polated item. Miss Dolly Manner's loud
drollery is emphasised by the comparative
gentleness of Impino and Brett, as Mr. and
Mrs. Ali Baba. Edwin Brett, stouter than
when he was here last, is a genial, fussy
female who errs on the side of restraint.
Lupino is an accomplished pantomime artist,
fairly humorous and wonderfully agile. His
principal comedy scene with Brett is suc-
culent, and his leg work is a feature of the
show.. He can.spin and leap as gracefully as
Volinin, or tumble as adroitly as a vaude-
ville knockabout. The star song of the
panto, is warbled by Marie Eaton as Abdal-
lah, assisted by a boy soprano and a chime
of electric bells in the auditorium. This
happens near closing time, when the Captain
of the Forty Thieves comes to sing a ballad
concerning the joys of Loveland, with rings
in its refrain and bells on its symphony. The
panto, may be said to peter out then. The
tinkle of the bells is followed by a terrible
beating of drums in the closing scene, which
bristles with flags and noble national senti-
ment. Earlier in the evening the Australian
Navy is a matter for vociferous song and
chorus. But, then, a panto, is nothing if
not patriotic.
** * *
“The Land of Nod,” produced on dis-
tinctly American lines at the King’s last
Saturday, promises to go better than any of
Anderson's previous experiments in panto, or
musical extravaganza. The Yankee novelty
is in a class by itself. As far as it attempts
to be a “phantasy” it is crudely suggestive
of “The Blue Bird,” and as far as it re-
sembles a panto, it is a glorified perversion
of “The Grafters.” The principal girl is
Bonnie, who hastily falls asleep in the open-
ing front scene and dreams all the ragtime
incidents that eventuate in the Land of Nod,
where the King of Hearts lives in a house
of cards, and subsequently in the Nightmare
Palace, where Sandman, the vociferous vil-
lain of the vaudeville, is treated with con-
tempt by all who wander into his clutches.
The principal boy is Jack of Hearts; the
Man in the Moon is the henpecked husband
of Rory Bory Alice; Welsh Rarebit is cast
into the Peppermint River by the basso
Weather Man and rescued by April Fool —
or hollow jests to that effect. Phantasy
runs in double harness with Inanity, and
Irrelevancv holds the reins. In the course
of this crazy entertainment there are 25
turns for- the principals, who are rarely un-
assisted by the chorus when the orchestra
(20 in number) }s at work.
* * r * *
Fourteen characters are billed, and 10 or
a dozen fresh faces from America appear in
the cast. Tom Cannam, Priscilla Verne
(looking only a few years younger), and
Maud Chetwynd are the well-known mem-
bers of the cast. ■ Generally speaking, the co.
is more than strong enough to do justice to
the poor little libretto —which is weakest
in its silly local allusions —and the various
ragtime features. There are pleasing
voices enough and to spare. Ruth Nevins,
as Jack of Hearts, lets her high, in-
cisive soprano go most effectively in sundry
solo numbers and ensembles. The Bonnie of
*\nna McNab is a melodious girl with ginger
in her comedy; also some of the men are
respectable vocalists and fairly imposing
persons. Apart from the performance on the
stage, there are outbreaks of song in the
stage boxes, in one of which an impersonator
of George Reid rubs shoulders with George
V. Chorus girls pop up unexpectedly in the
auditorium, and such cheap and easy Ameri-
can trick effects seem calculated to advertise
“The Land of Nod.” It is a liberally-staged
show. The scenery is bright, some of the
electric lighting devices are very ingenious,
and many pretty girls are decoratively
clothed.
A revival of “Monsieur Beaucaire” is to
round off the Lewis Waller season at Mel-
bourne Royal. On Saturday (27th) Waller
will appear in the ornate garments of the
gaudy character which he “created”—in an
actorial way of speaking—long years ago.
It was. as a matter of fact, the author of the
yarn who created the character, and Waller
was the original interpreter thereof; but the
point is not worth worrying about. Melbourne
will be glad to meet a new Beaucaire and a
fresh young Lady Mary, and the devotees
of romantic comedy are already sniffing in
advance “the fragrance of a bunch of old
roses” (vide advt.). Meanwhile Waller con-
tinues to be taken prisoner by Miss Lily
ritheradge, whose name is Miss Elizabeth
for the nonce. The present double bill holds
good until Boxing Night.
** * *
. Ihe Christmas outbreak at the Princess’s
is another amended version of poor old
“Uncle Tom’s Cabin.” The bathetic bellow-
drama shed its last vestige of live human in-
terest long before The Bulletin was born,
and even its American color is fading away.
Little Eva has evoluted into the Gibson
Gut. Great grandsons of the niggahs whom
Simon Legree walloped for wallop’s sake
are coomng at music-halls, or stoushing
white hopes” for large sums of gate-money.
Uncle Tom is dead and massa Jack Johnson
guffaws in his stead. In the present up-to-
date production of Uncle, which makes one
almost weep over the abolition of slavery,
the Willoughby management’s specialities
are the Era Comedy Four, the New York
Jubilee Singers and 12 Piccaninny Rag-
timers. Thick slices of vaudeville flavored
with the comforts of religion are sandwiched
between thin layers of familiar narrative;
and persons of all ages and every class are
cordiallv invited to the picnic.
The much-needed new attractions at the
Opera House are the Schmettans and
the Clemendos, who are described respectively
as-famous athletes and renowned acrobats,
and act accordingly. Also the five Petlevs,
in the same line of business, have just
arrived from Sydney. All these hard-working
people _ clashed at their outset with Gene
Greene’s deplorable ragtime contests, but the
amateur competitions were to close on Tues-
day night, and The Bulletin trusts the
advt. kept its promise. Greene himself will
go on singing as before.
The Christmas dish at the Auditorium will
be the musical Kennedys, who start their
little season on Boxing Night. At the Town
Hall the time honored revival of “The Mes-
siah” by the Philharmonic Society comes to
pass on Christmas Night. This year the
Phil, celebrated its diamond jubilee by put-
ting in a previous “Messiah” performance
last Saturday.
Zola’s “Germinal” has concluded its brief
but prosperous stav at ! West’s Palace, Mel-
bourne. On Boxing Night West will unwind
“In the Bishop’s Carriage,” the pictorial ver-
sion of the drama wherein Nell Stewart
figured of old.
Bill Plain, Minister for Lands in Elmslie’s
\ictorian ex-Cabinet, is one of the very manv
real farmers who are not frightened of the
Labor party’s policy. With an amazing
amount of information about the land and
the way to use it, Plain would have been
Minister of Lands and Agriculture long ago
if there were elective Ministries in Victoria.
But the absurd party system decreed that
he must stand aside directly Elmslie was
beaten on some matter with which Plain
Bill’s department had nothing whatever to
do. Before William came to Australia he
was a “hand” on ex-Governor Thomas Gib-
son-Carmichael’s estate in Scotland.
Collins’s Diaries for 1914 are now avail-
able. Every year the series has grown
larger, until now it seems as if there isn’t
any class of diarist whose special require-
ments are not catered for.
The recent attempt to assassinate Lionel
Phillips, the S’African millionaire, revives a
story of the Jameson Raid period, when
Phillips, being arrested as a boss raider,
seemed likely to be hanged by the Kruger
Government. The devoted little wife of
Phillips (she is now dying of sleeping sick-
ness, it is said) was in London at the time
of the Raid fiasco, and she made frantic
efforts to interview Prime Minister Balfour
on hubby’s behalf. Cable messages in the
London papers announced the date fixed for
the execution of Jameson, Phillips and Co.,
but still the weary magnates at Downing-
street seemed indifferent as to Kruger’s in-
tentions. Finally Mrs. Phillips got hold of
Miss Balfour, and tried to get her interested
in the of the “doomed” filibusters. Miss
Balfour protested that she saw no need for
this urgent pleading. Why worry? The
agitated wife replied that the execution
would come due on the following Monday.
The date had been published in the papers,
she said. Miss Balfour met her tearful gaze
with an icy, high-bred stare. “We nevah
read the papahs,” she said.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Antonia Dolores is leaving England for Australia
at the end of December, and hopes to be in Sydney
early in February.
Unie Russell (the grass widow of Chinaman Chia,
now languishing in chokee) got an engagement with
a musical comedy touring co. in the Cold Country.
She was ironically fated to be cast for a part in “The
Chinese Honeymoon.” So, at least, The Bulletin
is informed, though the information sounds more
like a ,ioke than the truth.
i i'Pj 6 Mask”: They tell a happy story about the
lately-deceased Barney Levy. He was ahead of the
classic Dan Barry, doing the smalls of Victoria, and
at Bendigo received a wire, “Get twelve supers.”
Levy met the train that night and effusively ap-
P|L°, ach , ed Daniel. “It’s all arranged,” he chortled.
I hey re waiting at the pub!” And he led the way
to the dining-room, where Dan found places set for
a dozen. To the day of his death Levy swore that it
was the telegraphist’s fault.
r -Hi K rm. Ch s ster . ton ’ 1 ? first play, “Magic,” at London’s
Little Theatre, is “just like listening for a couple of
hours to someone talking cleverly about one thing
and another. ”
“Way Verley Penn” : Frank M. Clark (of the old Silk
Stockings Co.) and Chas. J. Stine, erst of the Stine-
Evans American Musical Burlesque Co., are now
figuring in Yank-made farce-comedy photo-play films.
Clark has, apparently, shrunk, while Stine has
fattened.
“F.H.”: The death of Harry Deline, Mexican snake-
charmer, which took place in Melbourne on the 16th
inst , should gratify “D.” (B. 11/12/’l3). Enraged
reference was made by “D.” to the despatching of
various live snake-foods at a White City (Sydney)
snake show. Delirie’s was the same sort of snake-
entertainment. Henry had been showing, at Luna
Park, and in the fulness of time a bit
him, within a quarter of an inch of his iugular.
Twice during the previous few days he had been
bitten and successfully treated at the Melbourne
Hospital. But, although a swiftly-summoned med.
slashed him up in the taxi-cab on the way to the
hospital, and cauterised the slashing when he got
the third bite did the trick. A somewhat in-
teresting feature of the case was that, after Deline’s
girl-assistant—a Tasmanian—had cut and sucked his
wound, she went on with the show as usual, more or
less dressed in a one-ply bathing suit, with a bunch
of chilly snakes sprawling around her shoulders.
“C. Cockney”: Barrie’s misnamed “Adored One”
disliked from the first night, gave up the ghost at
the Duke of \ork’s (London), after a lingering ill-
!<r? S ?? a cou P le °f months. The earlier Barrie piece,
Quality Street,” was thereupon revived, and served
to re-introduce that brilliant little artiste, Nina
Boueicault, to the London public. At the same
theatre Nina was the original Peter Pan; but since
those somewhat remote days she has not been exactly
rushed after by the metropolitan managers. Yet she
can act!
The Victorian estate of the late J. C. Williamson
has been proved at £68,663, made up of real estate
£5940, and personal property £62,723. The N. S
Wales estate was valued at £193,038.
Stated on good authority that the John Mac Co-
rmack tour in Australia yielded £20,000, of which
almost one-half came from Sydney.
“Constant Fire-Bug”: A big city fire is the best
draw in the world, bar none. 1 was at a Mel-
bourne theatre one night when the whisper floated
through the crowded auditorium that there was a
gorgeous blaze just up the street. It was a gay
show, and everyone had been absorbed in it up to
that moment; but, at the first hint of the free blaze
outside, the audience stirred like a field of standing
wheat and started to melt out. I was in the first
wave ; but even then I could see the poor stage-show
going flat and dying on its various and beautiful
legs. It had encountered the one irresistible rival.
The other night, in Sydney, hundreds of people let
their last trains go, so they could gloat over the
seven-storey pillar of fire that used to be the Canada
Building. A few weeks ago, when Ambryn Island, in
the New Hebrides, started to boil over, and buck,
and shake the seas, the sightseers from Vila hurried
along to watch furious Nature remoulding things. I
know of only one person who ever voluntarily left a
big fire before it had lost its full golden strength.
He was a small boy with an abnormal sense of duty,
and he turned his small back on one of Melbourne’s
record conflagrations to go and buy a pair of cheap,
insignificant boots in collaboration with his maiden
aunt. I was the other gloating small boy, and I very
nearly throttled him for it. Why, when Rome
burned, Nero merely fiddled —he didn’t degrade him-
self by buying boots.
“J.F.H.” (from London) : Lillah McCarthy ought
to be a good judge of a play by this time; but she
isn’t, or she wouldn’t have put on at London St.
James’s such a hopeless and repellent anachronism
as “The Witch”—a prolonged attempt to make the
flesh creep. The play is a weird story of sixteenth-
century Norway; and not a gleam of light intrudes
upon its murk. Lillah made a thrillsome creature
of the witch-wife, and Australia’s old acquaintance,
Janet Achurch. was a grandmother who did some
terrible cursing. But though they did well enough,
it was all time sadly misspent.
“Harrison O.”: One advantage a repertory theatre
such as McMahon’s in Melbourne has over the com-
mercial institution lies in the much larger number
of performers it has to choose from when it comes to
casting a play. In practically every show given by
McMahon’s amateurs there lias been at least one
strikingly convincing character; not because of any
special histrionic ability on the part of its exponent,
but because the said exponent has borne a very strong
resemblance, physically and in other: ways, to the
person he has been supposed to portray. The pro-
fessional stage introduces us to the better actor, but
the repertory theatre gives us the more life-like figure.
Premier Jack Seaddan (W.A.) recently
shocked his followers and gave Liberals
cause for a joyful grin by threatening to
thrbw up his State job and have a run for
the Federal seat vacant through C. E.
Fraser’s death. Probably, if he felt sure of
success at the Labor selection ballot, he
would have carried out his threat. Seaddan
is just worried to his wits’ ends through the
utter hopelessness of making ends meet even
with the utmost economy ; and instead of an
improvement, about all he can see ahead of
him is a bigger bill for wages and supplies.
It is only about a year since the Common-
wealth was definitely committed to the 4ft.
S|in. railway gauge, with a view to
accelerating the establishment of a stan-
dard throughout the continent. The
diversity of gauge is one of the great
military dangers of Australia, and it is only
in keeping with the general attitude of the
Cook Government that Glynn has decided
that the Pine Creek to Katherine River line
shall be built to 3ft. 6in. gauge. Glynn’s
argument is that the Port Darwin to Pine
Creek section is 3ft. 6in. But that is no
argument in favor of building the extension
to the same size, though it is an overwhelming
plea for the immediate reconstruction of the
existing line. Also, it drives home the
criminal folly of constructing the Northern
Transcontinental line from the North at
all. Glyn’s idea seems to be that it is
better and cheaper to alter a whole line in
the future than rebuild now a small piece of
it at each end.
The Bedford Estate, the remnant of which
has just been sold in London, is an awful
instance of the appropriation of unearned
increment. The founder bought 19 acres
in what was soon to become the heart of
London, at a time when its annual rental
value was £129. lie stuck to his property,
and under the law of entail it passed from
heir to heir, whilst circumstances over which
they had no control raised the market value
to the Lord knows how much. The new
purchasers are supposed to have paid about
half as many million pounds as the original
Bedford paid hundreds for it. One could
go the rounds of Covent Garden market,
stroll into three great theatres in neighbor-
ing streets, feed at the Waldorf Hotel, see a
fight at the National Sporting Club and be
committed for trial at Bow-street Police
Court without going beyond the confines of
the estate. Big, open spaces were closed by
order of the Duke, who was the most auto-
cratic landlord in London —doubtless be-
cause his ancestors had been built that way.
The public created the value, and the land-
lord grabbed it for his own ; and the appal-
ling injustice of it pointed 10,000 arguments
in favor of the public ownership of all land.
The N.S.W. Public Service is perturbed
by the verdict of the High Court in the case
Stephen v. Miller. Plaintiff, one of the
Stephens, was in the Audit Department, which
he had served faithfully for years. Reaching
60 he was asked if he wanted to stay on, and
he said he did. The Auditor-General, how-
ever, recommended to the Public Service
Board that he be retired. The Board then
recommended to the Governor-in-Council
that Stephen be retired, and retired he was.
He then applied for the gratuity allowed to
public servants whose services are dispensed
with by the Board otherwise than for an
offence. The Government took the point
that Stephen’s services hadn’t been dispensed
with —he had merely been called upon to
retire. The Full Court pondered on this in-
genuous remark for a long time, and unani-
mously decided that his services had been
“dispensed with.” The High Court, with
equal unanimity, now decides that he was
“called upon to retire.” This play upon
words means a loss of £179 to Stephen—
which is liable to be serious thing to a
man over 60. It is equally serious to the
whole crowd of ex-contributors who put up
some of the money to fight Stephen’s case.
The mania of the “Crown” for fighting the
aged public servant over obscure law points,
which its own Judges aren’t sure about, is a
strong argument for a new Superannuation
Act, which will wipe away the legal intrica-
cies and pitfalls of the present Public Ser-
vice Act and place all public servants in a
position of some finality. Just now they
don’t know where they are.
THE PAY’S THE THING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“He draws a princely salary; by far the biggest
sum we have ever paid to any artist under engage-
ment to us in Australia.”
—Too frequent theatrical gag.
The crowd within the playhouse walls
Was simply rocked with pure delight;
Its frenzied clappings and recalls
Disturbed the drowsy Summer night.
“Bravo!” it cried, “Hooray! Angkore!”
The smiling singer gave it more.
I turned upon my neighbor, who
Had stamped the soles from off his boots.
“What is this wicked thing you do?”
I asked of him. “Where are the hoots,
And where the hisses, fierce and free,
This wretch deserves of you and me?
“He cannot jest, he cannot sing;
He couldn’t dance for nuts. It’s clear
The beggar can’t do anything,
And half the vagrant Pointers here
For something more than half a jim
Would act the bloated head off him.”
Said Smith: “You’re right; he isn’t great—
Such voices kick round anywhere.
And—yes-—his actin’s second rate.
But p’r aps you ain’t considered, sir”—
And here he threw in more applause—
“ The splendid salary he draws?”
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


Takca D.J. KIT BAG.
It will hold all you want for weekends.
Handy for Everyday Use.
Unexcelled for Value.
The D.J. Kit Bags are made of stout Cowhide throughout,
on strong enamelled steel frame-—with side lock and end
clips—well lined with strong drill. They are our own
manufacture —every part carefully finished. In several
sizes.
•M
i
ddMH
Lengths .. 12 14 16 18 20 inches.
Prices 11/- 13/- IS/- 17/- 19/-
SENT CARRIAGE PAID.
DAVID JONES, LTD.,
Opp. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
g#
m
W:'->
M& ■
, ...
is • ait
m
''. : ■
:a V i-. ■•:
\i ~ v -T- _' r *
m
Rugelmann’s
Pure Herbal
Skin Soap.
“Beauty’s Aid.”
Free Sample sent on Receipt 0
Twopenny Stamp.
ICugelmann’s Pure Herbal Skin Soap may b
tained at all Chemists, Drapers and Storek v
throughout Australasia, at 2/6 per box three « n i. e
tablets. If not obtainable locally, send Posta
or Stamps of any State, to the value of 3/- t 1
ing postage), when box will be posted per r
mail.
Sole Proprietors:
H. E. KUGELHANN & CO.,
Wholesale Druggists and Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen Street, MELBOURNE; Pitt str ® e *'
SYDNEY; and at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE
SOCIETY
PENEOLD'S
WINES
ONE TOUCH OF NATURE.
DISREPUTABLE SOLICITOR (for defendant Lothario, addressing exemplary backblocks magis-
trate): “And, now, year Worship, I appeal to you as man to man. You an'
I, sir, as men of the world, know how extremely difficult it always is to refute
a charge of this sort.”
F. W. Lundie, a city councillor of Ade-
laide and secretary f the A.W.U., has sue-
cessfully defended an action (damages
claimed, £300) for calling a prominent Port
Adelaide Labor man a “scab.” The defence
was quite simple: (1) Plaintiff had shorn
at a shed in 1906 for less than the ruling
rate: (2) Lundie had mentioned the fact,
but had never used the word “scab” at all.
So the expensive bunch of lawyers engaged
had to disperse without settling the really
interesting questions—(la) What is it worth
to call a man a “scab” when he is or has
been one? (2a) When he isn’t and hasn’t
been one?
“Snell” : There are a few little things the
matter w r itii the outbreak of “Clav Face”
(B. 18/12/T3) concerning the Australian
memorial portraits, and Andy Fisher, and
Hugh Patterson and some others. “Clay
Face” is all right in barracking for the Aus-
tralian artist, but he is all wrong in his
other emotions. Meldrum has not had three
commissions. He is now engaged on his
second. Phillips Fox’s portrait of Fisher
was sent back for a few unimportant modifi-
cations, with the making of which the artist
was in perfect agreement. Ambrose Patter-
son has not been “turned down”; he has
painted an excellent portrait of Charley
Kingston to order, and has been paid for it,
and the portrait is now suspended in Queen’s
Hall in full view of “Clay Face” and other
curious investigators. Finally, to leave “Clay
Face” nothing on earth to complain of, let
me point out that Meldrum is an Australian
artist, too, despite a “Glaskee” accent. He
is an old student from Melbourne Art Gal-
lery, and when he first came to this country
was so small a Scotch that he scarcely
amounted to a nip.
“Circle”: The row over the “third degree”
methods of the Victorian police reminds me
of the story told me by the sergeant’s son.
His dad, who was in charge of a Melbourne
suburb, had been worried by a series of
clever fowl thefts. He and his men were
certain that a young vegetable John was
responsible; but all the traps they set failed
to catch him. However, one frosty morn-
ing, John was discovered dozing on a park
bench with a suspicious-looking sack by his
side. The hounds of the Law were stealing to-
wards him, when he jumped up like a rabbit,
threw away his bag, and raced through the
trees. . But the policemen were just a bit
too fast for him, and presently he was being
lugged back to where the bag lay. They
forced him to take it up, though he pro-
tested wildly that it didn’t belong to him.
When he was led to the station door, the old
sergeant tried to get from him an admission
that the bag belonged to him. But the alien
shook his head doggedly 25 times, till the
sergeant lost his temper and snapped:
“Here, Joe! run th’ divil across the road a
few times. I’ll tach him to loi to me!” Joe
instantly grabbed the slack of the Confucian
pants,'knotted his fingers around the greasy
collar- and shoving the head well ahead of
the rest, rushed and dragged the helpless
fowl-stealer across the dark road and back
again. “You, stole thim fowls!” growled the
sergeant threateningly. “No savee fowl!”
yelped the prisoner. “Give him another
thrip, Joe !” And so it went on, until Joe
was streaming with perspiration. But the
prisoner hadn’t confessed. Then the .ser-
geant had him hustled into the cell, where
he took on the job in person. Grabbing the
floor mop and presenting it like a gun he
chased the defiant wretch into a corner
where he crouched and blinked like a rat’
“Now, you lyin’ divil,” roared the sergeant
“I’m goin’ to get th’ thruth out of yez ! You
stole thim fowls!” The jewel of Asia stared
at the threatening mop quivering within a
few inches of his face. He was nearly de-
mented with terror and rage, and his face
muscles were running and twitching. But
he looked the purple sergeant in the eye
bared his yellow fangs and sobbed: “You
—you Hanky liar!” The proceedings ter-
minated just there, and that’s the only third
degree story I can vouch for.
DRAFTS OF LOVE.
THE GRASS WIDOW : “Well, my husband says he loves me, but he never sends me any money ”
THE UNATTACHED BRUTE: “Sort of unremitting affection, eh? Bai Jove!”
A sound principle of Australian law has
just been re-established in Victoria. When
John Ahern died in 1888, he left his 74-acre
paddock at Wariandyte to his widow, on
whose death it was to go to William Lyons,
and, after him, to his son, if he had one,
and to his brothers Michael and Patrick, if
he hadn't; Michael and Michael’s sons to
get it before Patrick and Patrick’s sons.
They were to have no power to borrow,
mortgage or otherwise deal with the allot-
ment, which was “to go to the heirship of
the Lyons male family, and never to be sold
by them or heirs.” That was the dead
man’s dictum. A while back the widow
Ahern followed her good man, and the other
day William Lyons died, without issue;
whereupon the living man, in the person
of Justice Hodges, briefly remarked that a
testator might leave his property to a first
and a second beneficiary, but there wasn’t
any entail in this country, consequently
William Lyons’s heirs would have the pro-
perty, and they could do as they thought fit
with it.
From a Melbourne matron :
In these days of missing girls and white-slave
alarms, does this interest you ?
I was waiting for a train at a seaside suburb, when
a young woman approached me casting furtive
glances over her shoulder. I fancy I was selected
because I was standing somewhat apart, and was by
myself. She caught hold of my arm, asking if she
could stay with me. She was so frightened—there
was a Horrid Man, and he had taken her purse, and
she didn’t know what to do. The poor young thing
quite broke down.
It seemed she had taken some work —something in
the sewing line—from her aunt (with whom she
lived) to a lady, and had received 7s. 6d. in pay-
ment. She was sitting on the beach for a while
before returning home, when a man appeared, and
after a iew minutes’ conversation made the usual
infamous proposal. This she resented, and in the
commotion she dropned her purse, which he grabbed
and refused to give back, unless she fell in with his
views; so she fled to the station for protection. At
this stage a man appeared on the platform, and the
girl, becoming dingier than ever, gasped out, “That’s
him.’ He took a casual glance around; then leftr
I looked at him, but I am afraid I am not suffici-
ently acquainted with the Mark of the Brute to be
able to say whether he had it or not. He seemed
to me to be ordinary, common or garden man.
In the face of this loss the young woman could
not go back to her aunt, who possessed the usual
number of paralysed husbands and small children.
In addition to this, she lived at Footscray. It
seemed almost too much for one poor woman to bear.
I offered to buy my young friend a ticket to her
suburb, telling her she could travel with me as far as
town. This offer was coldly received, as by this
time I knew it would be. It was the 7s. 6d. she was
after.
Her distress was very well done. So were the
tears; but they did not impress me in the least. I
am a woman, and I know how easily tears are worked
up. As the train showed signs of coming, I cut her
short, telling her I did not believe a word of her
story. The instant change in her was simply ludicrous •
and her language was unfit for publication. She then
left. I was sufficiently interested to let the train
go. A minute or two later I strolled outside the
station, and was not a bit surprised to see the
young woman going back towards the beach with the
same man.
The game is played successfully sometimes, for I
heard of an almost similar case where the result was
far more satisfactory—-to the girl.
“Thirsty Bobite”: The N. S. Wales
Liquor Act, which provides for the closing
of hotels during the hours of polling for
Parliamentary candidates, shut up all the
bars on Sydney Cricket Ground during the
Queensland match, the S.C.C. being geo-
graphically in the Waverley electorate
where the second ballot scrimmage was rag-
ing. When I say it shut all the bars °I
mean it shut those which supply the bloke
on the hill and the fellow in the grand-
stand. But the bar in the membahs’ stand
passed the bottle and the crushed ice as
usual. _ That’s what they call democratic
legislation. . Anyhow, it’s what Gregory
Wade furnished as a sample of democratic
legislation in the Liquor Act of eight or nine
years ago.
CHRISTMAS EVE.
The serpent is a long-suffering and patient
beast. He has been reviled and cursed tor
centuries, and he has taken it all lyi“S
down. At intervals some extra-foolish indi-
vidual isn’t content with heaving verbiage
at him, but insults him by pulling his leg.
Then, occasionally, like the other worm, he
turns. The other day he reversed twice. At
La Perouse (Sydney) he bit one tormentor,
who was giving an exhibition of ‘charm-
ing,” and the infallible self-invented anti-
dote” didn’t do the coroner out of a jot).
The same day a Melbourne “expert got it
in the neck from a tiger snake, and it wa
the hospital and the surgeon’s knife ana
eventually the coroner for him, too.
THE SOUL OF ENERGY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The farmer and settler are the most industrious
units in any community.
Hundreds of farmers have been sworn in as special
constables along the water-front to keep the strikers
in order.
Alfred Biddle, who enticed Mrs. Liiley from her
home at Mayfield, and murdered her with a black-
smith’s hammer, was hanged at Lvttelton on Satur-
day. Death was instantaneous. The hangman was
a farmer, who volunteered his services.
—Maoriland news items.
He tills the land, and sows and reaps ;
His hay abounds in giant heaps;
His axe resounds amongst the hills;
He plods unwearied by the drills.
At dawn he rises from his bed,
And, in a voice to wake the dead,
Hunts some to harness up the ploughs
And some to herd and milk the cows.
All day he sweats at heavy toil,
This tireless yeoman of the soil,
And, as the night falls down the sky,
When city men to pleasure fly,
He seeks his sleep that he may be
Recharged with goodly energy.
Life is to him an endless task,
And nothing better would he ask.
The loafer’s lot, the hours of ease,
He has not thought nor use for these.
Day is for work, and night for rest ;
The frills of life are not its test.
He knows that Satan finds some ill
For idle hands and feckless will;
Wherefore, he plods across the farm
In search of jobs that fend such harm.
Odd times he helps to break a strike
■ (For laziness gives him the spike),
By hurrying away to town
To knock his loafing brother down—-
There’s nothing like a loaded shaft
To inculcate the love of graft.
Then, if he’s got an hour to spare,
And no one else will venture there
To drape the scaffold with the rope,
And grease the hangman’s knot with soap,
And fit the cap and press the knob,
You’ll find the farmer on the job.
N.S.W.
THE SNAKE.


THE IDEAL FABRIC for
LADIES’ BLOUSES, ROBES,
f i
If
Flannel
DOES NOT SHRINK.
—ll—inr-TH®
Wild’s Hairdressing Rooms, 30 Upstairs,
Sydney Arcade, George and King Streets, Sydney, is
the proper place to go if you want the best of atten-
tion. Electric head and face massage done in the
latest American style. Hours of business: 8.30 to
6.30; Saturday close at 1 o’clock.*
Useful for the Journey
The Suit Case illus-
trated is very light and
strong. It enables one
to carry sufficient lug-
gage without assist-
ance —an appreciable
feature at holiday
time.
Made of compressed
Fibre, covered with
Painted Green Willis-
den Waterproof Canvas,
Copper - riveted into
strong iron frame,
strong leather-capped
corners, solid nickel or
brass lever sliding lock
and end clips, strong
leather handle.
22in. 24in. 26in.
32/6 35/- 39/6
New Catalogue on
Request.
■
•V• ■ .
-■
■
...
:
i
Peapes 8 Co., Ltd.
Men’s Outfitters,
309-311 George St.,
SYDNEY.
The Melbourne committee of the King
Edward VII. memorial fund is up against a
legal proposition. An enthusiastic citizen
who, in his first burst of loyalty to the late
monarch, promised a £5OO subscription, has
failed to draw a cheque for that or any lesser
amount. He is willing to meet the obliga-
tion in a testamentary manner, after his
decease; but the fund wants the cash, so the
committee proposes to test the question of his
liability in the law courts. Whichever way
the judge’s decision goes (the question is
considered too delicate to be submitted to a
jury), the case will be a warning to emo-
tional capitalists of the ultra-loyal order, as
well as a satirical reflection on the foolish-
ness of “loyalty” in placing a too-hasty val-
uation on its reverence for a dead king.
Kings, like their meanest subjects, are a
long time dead; and a sorrowing citizen,
whilst wearing inky pants and a purple
necktie on account of a national bereave-
ment, needs to look ahead and wonder
whether he will still feel like paying a £5OO
tribute to the deceased Majesty’s memory
when the time comes for unveiling the statue.
THE BENEFACTRESS.
MERCY : “She’s a wonderful good woman. I
never miss one of her lectures. I feel I
owe more to her than to any other living
creature, don’t you?”
MAY : “ Yes—she was co-respondent in my
divorce case.”
With the conviction for manslaughter of
the parents of the boy John Arthur Cooke,
of Fitzroy (Vic.), the end is reached of a
horrible and significant case of social
cruelty, the result of social folly. A case
may still be stated on the point whether, if
want of due care had only accelerated the
death of an already doomed person, there
was sufficient ground for a charge of man-
slaughter ; and it is this point that con-
cerns society generally. The boy Cooke
was 13 years of age at the time of his
death, and weighed 181 b. 2oz. He had lain
on a none-too-clean bed for two years,
slowly dying, and doomed to death from the
day of his birth. He was an almost com-
plete idiot, being unable to speak more than
the single word “Mum” or even to feed him-
self, save that, if a biscuit were placed on
his chest, he would feel for it and slowly
convey it to his mouth. The medical evi-
dence showed that the cause of death was
chronic inflammation of the brain, due to
congenital syphilis. This condition might
have been checked by treatment in the earlier
stages of the disease, but it must necessarily
have proved fatal before many years. The boy’s
parents and brother and sister are appar-
ently sane and healthy, yet the lad himself,
their firstborn, was a hopeless idiot from
birth, and was doomed beyond chance of
recovery to an early death. Away back,
two, three or even four generations ago,
syphilis had inoculated the blood of some
long dead and forgotten man or woman, and
this innocent boy was the victim, or one of
the victims. And, though in every State in
the Commonwealth, Government after Gov-
ernment goes on building reformatories and
enlarging lunatic asylums, hardly one will
lift a finger to attack the cause of all this
pitiful suffering and death.
* * * *
At last the aeroplane has figured in a real
battle. A Spanish force, onerating against the
Moors at Muley Abselam (Morocco), found
itself bogged in a sort of network of Moorish
trenches, so a flotilla of aeroplanes was let
loose and showered such a storm of
bombs that the Fuzzies swarmed out
of their pits in disorder, and, as they
did so, were charged by the Spaniards
with the cold steel. In this case the
tribesmen were armed only with rifles,
and the aeroplanes ascended to a
height beyond the range of such weapons.
A European army, of course, would be
equipped with special machine-guns for this
sort of work ; wherefore not too much weight
can be attached to the Spanish success.
“Demo” : Those worthy
nonenties, Forsyth and
Hickson, of the Mel-
bourne Herald, were by
no metjns Victorian Lab-
or pioneers. They were
well-meaning flies on the
wheel, like the mosquito
which buzzed round St.
Peter’s Dome, and wept
because it was his mis-
sion to destroy the edi-
fice. A tomtit’s beak
swallowed him. No, you
must go a decade behind
Hickson and Forsyth,
back to Don, Berry,
Ebenezer Syme, Owens
and Wilson Gray—men
mostly who sat in “the
corner” in the Legislative
Assembly. That tiny
thundercloud overspread
the whole sky. Their
serious business started
with the famous Land
Convention, in Alderman
K e e 1 e y’s Conference
Hotel, where Brunton’s
Hotel is now. Journalist
O’Plea, afterwards nick-
named the Chief Baron,
was a useful member.
He wrote for the Symes,
and the Tory caricatur-
ists had a fearful down,
on him. Don worked as
a stonemason on the new
Melbourne Post Office by
day, and was M.L.A. at
night. However, there
was no payment of mem-
bers, so the Tories got
him into a Fitzroy pub,
and it was all over with
him when their carica-
turist depicted him pull-
ing the beer handle.
Letitia Anderson, of “the Rocks,” may
have been wrong, but her despairing cry,
uttered in Sydney Water Summons Court
lately, seems worthy of attention. Also, a
little investigation might be worth while.
Letitia was being ordered to quit premises
by January 1, when she wailed as follows:
Qt J get a housej and I owe 18s. rent.
I wish I was a Chinaman and kept a gam-
bling house. Then I’d be all right.” If Sydney
had not been afflicted with the congestion
trouble, through trying to digest the whole
trade of the State, Letitia might have been
comfortably housed amidst European neigh-
bors at a reasonable rent, and the unpleasant
court proceedings might have been cut out.
You get some curious results by crowding
people together and boosting rents.
THE JOYS OF CHRISTMAS.
CUSTOMER : “I think I will change my mind."
ABSENT-MINDED SHOPMAN : “Sorry, madam — can't allow customers to change anything
at Christmas.”
The Victorian police hold £135, which they
don’t quite know what to do with. They
don’t exactly want an owner, because that
habitually needy person, the State Treasurer,
will presently claim it; but if anybody
< chooses to establish a claim, he can have the
money—and the consequences. The money
was seized by the law when it raided certain
Melbourne premises allegedly occupied by
“Barney” Allen as a betting shop. Allen
wasn’t there at the time, being in Sydney,
and occupancy by him was denied on his
behalf. Three alleged “managers” or assist-
ants were in the place, but they all dis-
claimed ownership of the immoral money,
and unanimously averred that one “Bertie”
Allen, who hasn’t set foot in the Common-
wealth for six months, is the tenant. When
the Bench had' grasped the facts as sworn,
it smiled grimly, fined the three “managers”
£25 apiece, and hinted that it would be so
glad to meet the real boss when he called to
claim his £135. So far, he hasn’t called.
At Geelong recently certain Laborites
asked permission to hold “Pleasant Sunday
Afternoon” gatherings on the beach slopes ;
but a Wowserish council decided that
nothing of the sort could be allowed, not-
withstanding that golf is played on the links
near by every Sabbath, and that the Labor-
ites did not propose to compel anybody to
come to their immoral meetings. Then it
was rumored that the Council would be de-
fied and that a meeting would take place.
The Council hurriedly got its authority to
bear, and 11 large-footed policemen were
introduced to the crowd, with instructions to
arrest anybody attempting to give an ad-
dress. The Laborites, not yet at the end
of their resources, hired a small boat,
moored it a dozen yards from land, and —the
rest was easy. The Council’s authority
stops at the shore, so the John Hops had
to grin and bear it like Christians. But
the poor old Sabbath was desecrated hor-
ribly, and has hardly been able to hold its
head up since.
At this happy season of the year, when
the smirking Ah Chow rewards the white
Australian for her custom by presenting- her
with a pot of ginger, The Bulletin has no
displeasure whatever in introducing a statis-
tical enthusiast, who lately went into figures
regarding these gifts. The jars went the
specified weight ail right, but the ginger in
one, labelled to contain lib., panned out at
50z.; “syrup” made up the other lloz. The
21b. jars averaged 9foz. each of ginger, and
the 31b. humbugs panned out 14oz. Mr.
C. E. Waters, a Sydney man, who lately
had a look at the ginger factories in Southern
China, here takes up the narrative :■ —-
The factories are merely sheds with earthen floors,
without sanitary appliances of any sort. Among the
workers are cripples and others suffering- from loath-
some diseases, which prevent them from actually
moving about. Such workers are employed trim-
ming and cutting the ginger root. The water used
for the syrup in which the ginger is boiled is ob-
tained from little canals about the factories. This
water, which flows through the paddy (rice) fields, in
which the Chinese wash themselves, and which they
defile, is so polluted that no European or intelligent
Chinaman would dare drink it. The old ginger that
is left over from last year or the year before, and
has been condemned and returned from other
countries, is cooked up fresh, packed and sent down
to Australia. These factories are only among those
which cater for the cheap trade. No other country in
the world receives such cheap, common quality of
ginger as is packed and shipped to Australia. None
of the European houses handle any of the cheap
stuff, which is shipped entirely by Chinamen, the
Europeans, of course, not being able to compete.
After which The Bulletin trusts that the
white Australian woman will enjoy the
Christmas delicacy as usual.
“Marloo”: When N.S.W. statesmen have
finished discussing Miss Alice Bilking, would
they mind prodding somebody until that sec-
tion of the Bure Foods Act is enforced whicly
requires that drinking vessels used in hotel
bars, restaurants, refreshment rooms, etc.,
shall be cleansed in clear running water,
when such water is or can be made avail-
able? I’m tired of eating my beer from a
glass which, after being extracted from a
sweaty, beer-stained, microbe-infested beard,
is plunged into a tub of grimy fluid, and
licked with a filthy rag to ensure a fair
and honest distribution of all the germs on
the premises. In the country the disregard
for the law is even more scandalous than it
is in the city: in a North Coast court the
other day the licensing inspector said he
knew only one hotel in his whole district
where the law wasn’t the deadest of corpses.
THE FESTIVE SEASON.
SHE : “Oh, George darling, isn't Christmas
just too jolty. Everyone looks so happy
and gay. ”
“Lometo”: Apropos the curses that have
been heaved at Australian small-pox vac-
cination lymph, The Bulletin may be in-
terested to know that the Government medi-
cal officer here, in the Marshall Islands, re-
cently vaccinated several hundred Kanakas
with Australian lymph, without a single fail-
ure. All “took” beautifully, and there were no
cases of “bad arm.” Whether the goods
were up to standard in the first wild
rush for lymph I don’t know ; but it is pretty
clear on this experience that the stuff is all
right now.
A SONG OF PEACE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The remarks of Dr. Manmx, coadjutor-archbishop,
on Sunday evoked a reply from Rev. 11. Gainford
lederal grand president of the Protestant Defence
Association, last evening. —Daily papev.
Peace to the servants of God !
Locked in a death-grip once more,
See how they batter and prod,
Down on the paper-strewn floor !
Ink on their vestments and hair,
Kicking with boots iron-shod !
Would you see zeal? It is here!
Peace to the servants of God !
Peace to the servants of God,
Sitting in Heaven ! Down here,
Where it is dusty and dim,
Someone is biting an ear!
Kicks and collections and yells,
Fighting incessant and grim,
Under the scullery bells !
Peace to the servants of Him !
N.S.W.
ST. ARGUMENT.


WINE IN THE MALLEE.
One witness (Constable Dunn) said
that the wine was known in the district
as “lunatic soup.” He often watched
men go into the wine hall perfectly
sober, and come out mad drunk in a
.quarter of an. hour.—News item.
|D|o/a a T|c
AV^IMe.
DicTioM
sbjsssb.
more attractive.
f
P*
SWce<- to d
L *&** *? He > in s°“^'
Speaking at a meeting in t connection
■with the Liberal Workers’ Campaign
at Hawthorn, Mr. Hagelthom, ex-Min-
ister of Public Works, said that no
jmblic man in Victoria had been sub-
jected to so much heckling by the press
as Mr. Watt. It was altogether unde-
served, as the work which he had done
was recognised by his colleagues as pro-
digious. < Applause.)
Bat we are not prepared, we are not
able, and we do not intend to found a
navy out of all rational proportion,
more useful to the Empire than to our-
selves. Our purely local defence needs
« the sea are, relatively speakmg,
small, and they would be ampl) satis-
fied with the realisation of our earlier
conception-: —a “mosquito fleet.
| should Smile.
<lhe-
fpo<luce»'— of
ov?e smaJl
KmoOM*%
"Hie. liez.
of )>«.nSioi , S fe.
el- fcJera.l fol'tic '*p
Like many others of his clergy,
their vicar complained that far too
many of his parishioners lived in
boarding-houses. It seemed that
home life was disappearing from
amongst them, and the practice of
living in boarding-houses was increas-
ing year by year.—News item.
Rev AAo^de^lor-
s'»r-tno^clo^lor&blej
|do h&fire. Jo* .
y/W«r* one cv» pef
bil" o? tnuf-f-ih
| C*a|3 teW* "
(IM£D-o u f
[_AOUE-
London.
The Hon. Arthur L. Stanley, the
Victorian Governor-designate, is
broad-minded, receptive and deter-
mined to thoroughly master Vic-
torian affairs, and with that obiect in
view is carefully reading current
literature on the subject.—Cable.
0 . The.
3"M
lEm 'Ere ,t*Ke yoar t> e "V°" novr
to «« RocKy —
C VI«4 f >r,ce ■
FOWLS, JIMJAMS AND OTHER CHRISTMAS POULTRY.


UNCLE JOE’S CHRISTMAS TREE.
WHAT AUSTRALIA GOT—AND WHAT HE WANTED.


KIDNEY DISEASE
and all allied complaints have their prompt and
effectual remedy in Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills, which
act in a wonderfully speedy manner. Give them a
trial. Price, Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. Obtainable every-
where.*
PHENOMENAL GROWTH OF A BUSINESS.
The approximate sales of O.T. certified by the
Company’s Auditor for the 12 months ending June,
1906, were 43,000 bottles, equivalent to 1,000,000
drinks. For the 12 months ending June, 1913, sales
were over 3,000,000 bottles—equivalent to over
73,000,000 drinks. Judging by its great popularity,
there must be singular merit in O.T.*
Mr. Storekeeper, Mr. Miller, Mr. Seedsman, are
you aware that Smith’s Ltd. are making calico and
hessian bags suitable for your requirements? Smiths
print these bags in any number of colors; they are
anxious to obtain your business; they can save you
money on your bag account; and are anxious to get
in touch with you. They will send you a sample
bag for purposes of comparison, duly printed, if
you so desire. If courteous service and utmost value
at bedrock prices appeal to you, then write to the
‘Bag specialists,” T. Smith Ltd., Sussex Street,
Sydney. *
GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
r
For
QUALITY.
WORLD-FAMED
HATS.
For
DURABILITY.
EVERY DAY
mote people »te proving th»t
IDX
is the best washing preparation for
blankets, flannels, woollens and dainty
fabrics. Lux is scientific in its methods.
Lux coaxes rather than forces the dirt
from the clothes. Lux shortens the
work at the washtub —lengthens the
life of the clothes.
WON’T
SHRINK
WOOLLENS.
r
/ •
\<*
LEVER BROTHERS
LIMITED, svdnev.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
GRAHAM, who was
Watt's Minister for
Agriculture and Water
Supply (Vic.).
Jesuit Father Sydes,
lately a practising
barrister in Brisbane,
is now delivering Sun-
day evening lectures
at the church of his
order in Richmond
(Yic.). He is forcible
and dramatic, and the
“jury man” sticks out
from under the stole
and surplice. Father
Lentaigne, one of the
two founders of his
order in Australia in
the 60’s of last cen-
tury, had been an Irish lawyer. The Oblate
Fathers have, of late years, settled down in
Westralia. Their famous preacher, Father
Cooke, had been a medical man before he
put on the biretta.
General Kirkpatrick left for London on
December 9, and his salary runs till April
30. John Fuller, ex-Gov. of Vic., draws
nearly six months’ screw, or over £2500, for
doing nothing. And the case of George Reid
is nearly as bad. Meantime policemen get
7s. 6d. a day, and we say we can’t afford to
pay them more. Well, perhaps we can’t.
Governor Bosanquet, who will be leaving
Soutfi Australia in February, has been ban-
queted by the resident consuls. As a
British admiral, he has visited nearly all
the countries some time or other, and they
were all represented, from the U.S.A. down
to Liberia. Germany took the chair, and
the toasts (besides “Our Guest”) were
simply “King George” and “Other Nations.”
Charles H. Dight, one of the best-known
residents of Albury, died last week. He was
one of the pioneer settlers on the Upper
Murray. The original Dights were Hawkes-
bury people, and Dight’s Falls, on the Yarra,
dating from the early days of Fawkner and
Batman, keep John Dight in memory. He
built the first mill at the Falls; it became
a picturesque ruin after the roaring ’so’s,
when Dight and Rucker gave up the busi-
ness.
Till Henry Scott died last week, at 77,
few people in Adelaide knew he was still
living. He had been one of its foremost
citizens for years : squatter, wool-buyer and
insurance man, Mayor of Adelaide, and Leg.
Councillor for a long term, director of the
Adelaide and National banks, and promi-
nent in a variety of charities. For years
past he had, however, been completely
broken down in health.
Penry, the youngest of Dr. Bevan’s four
fine sons, died in England last week. He
was to have come to Australia next year as
secretary to one of the Science Congress
sections, and a number of grave matrons
and scholarly spinsters were longing to see
him again. All the Bevan boys did brilliant
things at Melbourne University before going
off to fill “positions.” Two of them are
lights of learning in poor old China. One
is the first Judge of the Supreme Court in
the Northern Territory. Penry, whose
death is reported, was a science professor
at an English college. He had some ailment
for which “an operation was necessary,” and
the operation proved fatal. He was still
on the sunny side of 40.
Henry Parker, Chief Justice of Westralia,
has resigned, and Justice McMillan has suc-
ceeded him. The Attorney-General, who
made the announcement in the House, is
“Tommy” Walker, well known at one time
in N. S. Wales as representative of a min-
ing constituency, and as a careless man with
firearms. The ex-Chief Justice is a native
of York (W.A.), and is 67 years of age; he
has been on the Bench 22 years. The new
Chief is a Londoner, born in 1858, son of a
barrister, and 11 years on the Bench. No
mention is made of his successor, but it is
highly improbable that Attorney-General
“Tommy” will claim the office.
One of the inscrutable mysteries of
woman’s character came out in the case of
Mrs. Newman, who, beyond doubt, murdered
two, if not more, babies, and buried their
bodies on her husband’s selection near Mor-
dialloc (Yic.). One evening last winter she
and her husband called on a neighbor, whom
thev knew only by sight, but who had four
children down with diphtheria. While the
husband chopped up a bit of wood, she made
herself friendly, and then stayed on, nursing
the sick little ones for days and nights. On
the doctor’s authority she was the main fac-
tor in pulling them through. And she did it
all without hope of fee or reward.
Engineer R. Duppa Lloyd, who died lately
in London, aged 92, was Ferdinand de Les-
sep’s first consulting engineer on the big
Suez job. He had one brief spell in Aus-
tralia, coming to Sydney in 1868, to report
on the railways for the N.S.W. Government,
and remaining till ’73. During those years
he picked up a financial interest in the Bur-
burgate station on Liverpool Plains. By
way of recreation he raked together from
everywhere a vast collection of pictures,
china and bronzes. C. W. Lloyd, the
“father” of the Australian Club (Sydney),
is a brother.
Major F. A. Dove, who joined the Big
Legion lately, was primarily a public-school
teacher, but became a lieutenant in a
N.S.W. volunteer regiment in 1898, and a
captain in 1899. He played a good hand in
the Boer card-party, with scouting as his
strong suit; was “mentioned in despatches,”
and made a D.S.O. Later, he did fine work
as adjutant of the N.S.W. public school
cadets. He was appointed to the Adminis-
trative and Instructional Staff in 1906, and
in 1911 became Director of Equipment at
Headquarters (Melb.), with the rank of
major. About a year ago paralysis of the
spine got hold of him, and ultimately beat
him at the age of 46.
Mrs. Tracy left Melbourne last week, with
a Federal Government commission to urge
immigration to Australia on British plat-
forms. The handsome, energetic woman is
just cut out for such lecture work. When
she made her first visit to England, two or
three years ago, she was in the political line
of business, and she drew cheques from the
Imperial Mission, the National Service
League (Lord Charles Beresford’s affair)
and the Tariff Reform League, and got her-
self accepted as a dashing Australian with
plenty to say and an effective manner of say-
ing it. Her present undertaking was mooted
at the time when the late Batchelor was in
the Labor Ministry. Batchelor suggested it
to George Reid, whose presence in Australia
just now enabled Mrs. Tracy to get an
arrangement fixed up.
EDWARD GOLL, PIANIST.
The Rev. Alexander Barnard Davis, a
former Chief Minister of the Jewish Syna-
gogue in Sydney, died recently. This vet-
eran rabbi was born in London in 1828, and
20 years later was headmaster of the West-
minster Jews’ School in Soho. Later, he
was in charge of the Jewish congregation at
Kingston, Jamaica, and came to Sydney in
1862, when the Synagogue was a very small
circumstance in York-street. He had a large
share in building the big Elizabeth-street
tabernacle, opened in 1878; was one of the
pioneers of the Anglo-Jewish Association,
and was generally in the front when any-
thing was doing for the betterment of Israel.
He retired in 1903. In addition to many
sermons, he published (in 1868) “Jewish
Rites and Ceremonies” —an interesting guide
which has found its way into many Gentile
libraries.
Died in Adelaide, W. L. Neale. This time
the tragedy was of failure rather than of suc-
cess. Twenty-five years ago Neale was the
brilliant man of the S. Australian school
service: still a youngster, he was headmaster
of Sturt-street —the big “model” school of
the State. Then he took a false step: Tas-
mania called him in to report on its educa-
tion system, and afterwards invited him to
do the necessary reorganising. He thought
little of the material he had to work on,
brought over numerous S. Australians, and
met criticism in his usual perky way. In
the row that followed all the force "of old
Tasmania threw itself against the stranger,
and he w-ent dow-n and out. His old service
was closed to him ; so, after many buffetings,
the brilliant educationist took a job as clerk
in the Federal Land Tax Office, and he was
there when paralysis ended it.
From “Chasuble’s” funeral oration:—
Exit Cardinal Rampolla, the most bitterly disap-
pointed man on earth. As Secretary of State he was
Prime Minister to Leo XIII., and thus virtually Pope
tor several years. Generally he was tipped for the
Papacy in 1903, and appeared to have a right to the
billet. But a section in the conclave of cardinals
nominated Cardinal Gotti, an amiable, pious gentle-
man, Rampolla being more famed for statesmanlike
qualities. Nobody thought of humble Cardinal Sarto,
Patriarch of Venice. After several ballots, Rampolla
came out with such a strong lead that his election
seemed certain. At this stage, however, the Cardinal
Archbishop of Cracow put in a veto by the Austrian
Emperor against Rampolla. It does not appear
whether the Archbishop was armed with this all
along, or whether he had managed to smuggle out
of the conclave a wire, to the Emperor and get one in
return. Anyhow, the conclave bowed to the mandate.
The angry Rampolla partisans then refused to vote
for Gotti; they pitched upon Cardinal Sarto, who
was accepted by the Gotti followers as of the same
class. So, as usual, nothing happened but the unfore-
seen. Pius X. at once decreed that the user of a
veto at any future conclave would be visited with
excommunication. But that didn’t mollify Rampolla,
who declined to continue as Prime Minister; so the
office was conferred on young Merry Del Val, along
with a cardinal’s hat.
An Adelaide constable is under suspension
for the most remarkable excess of zeal this
paper can remember at the moment. One
hot night he simply went out, dragged in any
citizen he happened to meet, and charged him
with drunkenness. The first was duly
locked up, but, after that, the swift proces-
sion of protesting and bewildered captives
added to the staggering fact that the captor
had discarded his uniform, caused the official
mind to suspect that all was not well.
The old-time murder of martinet Price
by a group of Williamstown (Melb.) con-
victs was recalled last week by the death
of a nonagenarian baker, named Knight
IVhen the news of Price’s death was noised
around Vyilliamstown, it was stated that all
the convicts had “risen” for the purpose of
promiscuous slaughter, though, as a matter
of fact, the very men who did the gory deed
had contentedly calmed down as soon as
they were quits with the tyrant, and the
other convicts were full of peace and good-
will. The rumor of the imaginary “rising”
brought a band of excited townsmen upon
the scene, and Knight, the local baker was
one of them. Each carried a musket’or a
blunderbuss, and professed to be eager for the
fray; but as none of the weapons were
loaded, and nobody had brought any cart-
ridges, it was lucky that the convicts were
not on the job.
Seamen’s missionary Shearston, who the
other day was made Naval Commander
under Admiralty warrant, is a man of one
idea the worthy one of saving man-o’-wars-
men from the harpies of Sydney port. Those
who to-day see the Naval House in Gros
vonor-street, with its fine appointments are
not to suppose that the thing grew up of its
own accord. Its success was laid in years
of penury, distrust and even opprobrium
Shearston and his wife first started a lodging-
house on the Rocks. They picked up a booz-
ing Jack Tar sometimes from the gutter
sometimes out of the hands of the police-’
they saved his money and his reputation, and
they placed him on shipboard with colors
flying. They were no mere praying machines •
they knew exactly what they were up against
and brought solid sense to bear on each situa-
tion. From that early effort grew the Naval
House, which is known through almost all
sections. of the British Fleet. Shearston’s
new designation as naval commander became
necessary in consequence of a hitch in the
quartering of the relief crew of the Torch:
Naval House was temporarily gazetted a
ship, and Shearston was placed on deck as
naval commander, with the Admiralty pen-
nant flying aloft.
BILLSON,
Watt's Minister
of Mines,
looks towards
office again.
The irony of Death ! A group of Ballarat
sporting men were talking about ages, and
one proudly remarked that he had scored 58
and never felt better in his life. Then, the
cheery boast made, he flung up his arms,
gasped, and died of heart disease.
THE SPOILS TO THE HUSTLER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
:>lr. Wade was at the opera when he heard of the
Labor victories.. . .Mr. Holman was campaigning
at Bega, having rushed into the country to whip up
the electors to the second ballot in the contests yet
to be decided. —Press item.
The “leader” of the Liberals was drugged with
Wagner’s brass,
While subterranean Pitt-street cursed the thing that
came to pass,
And Wood who fled from Bega fell before the “work-
ing class.”
All in an opera stall, and nigh unto the trombone’s
shade,
While St. George destroyed the Dragon and the
Pitt-street cellar prayed,
Ihe statesman of the opera was in the balance weighed.
Now, half a hundred Hurstville men had each given
seven days’ pay,
And worked a week for nothing that their man might
win the day. ...
But Wade dozed at the opera where all the brasses
bray.
And Holman went to Bega, and he travelled and he
spoke,
And the Energetic Party put its strength unto the
yoke—
And the Cellar said that party was a common Labor
bloke.
Nor has it learned the lesson yet, because its head
is fat,
That electors like the man who hustled while the
others sat —
Like the men who aim at something, while Wade
sleeps beneath his hat.
And subterranean Pitt-street brayed like one collec-
tive ass,
And Wade, the statesman, doped himself with Mister
Wagner’s brass —
And the votes went to the hustlers of the vulgar
working class.
N.S.W.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


Austral
“Ready-to-Wear”
Clothin
You will be the only person who will know
they are ready-made. Our suits are cut
in th e very latest fashion, and in stvle,
finish and material are equal to most and superior
to many tailor-made suits. The only difference
is m the price.
If you are not perfectly satisfied, we will be
pleased to exchange the garments or refund you
your money in full. Send for General Catalogue
of Everything for Men’s and Boys’ Wear.
The last moment need Have no terrors, as
our Austral Ready-to-Wear is just as smart.
It is merely a question of your HeigHt, weigHt,
chest, waist and inside leg measurements.
IT
'
'ft
■: v>
%
n
m
y-y
M
h
-V'
a
V
MUi
V:
&
4^
r*
<? ./■
W
No. 3.—Two=Piece Suits,
Flannel and Washing.
No. I.—Sac Suits
No. 2.—Two=Piece
Sporting Suits.
Two=Piece Flannel Suits.
No. 3.—Made in Plain and Stripe, Light, Medium and Dark Flannels; also fancy mixtures, in Fawn, Green and Grey shades. Perfect fitting in all sizes..
Coats unlined and made with long or medium roll collar, patch pockets. Trousers, side and hip pocekts, and permanent turn-up or plain bottoms. Price:
25/-, 30/-, 35/-, 40/-, 45/-, 50/-, 55/-
Two=Piece Washing Suits
Made in Oatmeal Crash, Mercerised Repp, Plain and Stripe Holland. Plain and Stripe Tussorette, Latest Styles, Coat with seam and vent, or plain backs, 3
patch pockets, detachable buttons. Trousers smartly cut, side pockets, loops for belt.
Oatmeal Crash, 12/6 and 16/6; Plain Mercerised, 16/6; Stripe Holland, 18/6, 19/6; Plain and Stripe Tussorette, 22/6, 25/-
Also Plain and Stripe Taffeta Mohair, in fashionable Brown shades, 35/-, 40/- Plain Tussore Silk, 45/-
Sac Suits
]Vo. 1. Tweed Sac Suits, in all the latest styles and newest colorings. A splendid assortment of patterns in Marrickville and English Tweeds and Fancy
Worsteds. Price:—3s/-, 40/-, 45/-, 50/-, 55/-, 60/-, 65/-
Serge Sac Suits, in pure Indigo fine Serge, guaranteed fast color and hard wearing; latest styles. Price:—4o/-, 45/-, 50/-, 55/«
Also special line in fine Blue Serge Sac Suits, smartly cut, 35/-
Two=Piece Sporting Suits (English Make).
■y o 2 The Newest Style in Lounge Suits. Coat with yoke shoulders and belted back, 2 patch, breast and skirt pockets. Trousers, side and hip pockets, and
bottoms with permanent turn-up. Summer-weight Tweeds in all the latest shades. Prices:—3s/-, 42/-, 45/-, 50/-, 55/-
Men’s Ready=to=Wear Trousers
White Duck or Drill TROUSERS 4/11, 6/6, 7/6
Special Quality Duck or Drill TROUSERS 8/6, 9/6
Crash TROUSERS, Light and Dark Shades of Brown 5/6, 6/6, 7/6
Fancy Striped Crash or Drill TROUSERS 7/6, 9/6
Mercerised Tussore TROUSERS, in Grey, Fawn, and Brown Shades, made with
Plain or Gauntlet Bottoms, and Belt Loops 8/6, 10/6, 14/6
Cream Flannelette TROUSERS, Plain or Gauntlet Bottoms and Belt Loops 7/6
Cream Flannel TROUSERS, made with Loops for Belt, Plain and Gauntlet
Bottoms 13/6
Cream Serge TROUSERS, Plain Bottoms, Hip Straps, and Loops for Belt 10/6
Cream Serge TROUSERS, Plain or Gauntlet Bottoms, Hip Straps, Loops for
Belt 13/6, 15/6
A SPECIAL TROUSERS FOR THE BUSINESS MAN.
Plain and Fancy Stripes, Worsted, Light and Dark Shades. A Splendid Wearer—
-13/6
“ Austral ” Summer Coats
White Drill, Step or Patrol Collars 4/11, 6/6, 7/6, 9/6
Black or Stripe Alpacas, Smartly Cut, Vent Backs. All sizes—
-10/6, 12/6, 15/6, 17/6, 18/6
Blazer COATS, large variety 0/11, 10/6, 12/6, 13/6, 17/6
Motor Dust COATS, in Crash, Holland, Brown, or White Drill, Grey Sicilian—
-10/6, 12/6, 15/6, 17/6, 19/6, 21/-, 22/6
Motor-Cycle Dust COATS and Overall TROUSERS 17/6
BATH GOWNS, Good Variety ' 16/6, 17/6, 21/-, 27/6
GOWING BROS.,
“PIONEER DISTRIBUTORS OF AUSTRALIAN GOODS/'
484, 486, 488 & 490 George Street; &3,5,7, 9, 11,13, 15 &17 Royal Arcade, SYDNEY.


TO STOREKEEPERS
Why Carry Large Stocks of Single Cylinder Double Acting Power Pumps, when we can deliver
one or one dozen as you order from our stock?
Write to use for prices on the DEANE Model A., Single Cylinder Double Acting Power Pumps,
with Brass-lined Cylinders. . , . .
AGENTS in every State. If not in stock in your State, apply to—
SIMPSON BROTHERS, 32-34 Clarence Street, Sydney.
COUNTRY AGENTS REQUIRED.
if
SISKOL" ROCKDRILLS.
“SISKOL” HAMMERDRILLS.
“SISKOL" COALCUTTERS.
International Channelling Machines Ltd.
DIERCKS & CO. PROP. LTD.,
465 Collins St., Melbourne.
55 York St., Sydney.
The WILD CAT
CULOMN
Dalgety and Co., Ltd., pastoral finance,
shipping, merchant and general agency people:—
Written
Off Pre- To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. mises. serves, serves.
1901 £80,971 8 p.c. = £BO,OOO £971 £167,033
1902 84,848 7 „ „ 70,000 14,848 181,881
1903!! 48,825 5 „ ~ 50,000 180,706
1904 64,802 5 ~ „ 50,000 14,802 195,508
1905.! 85,892 6 „ „ 60,000 25,892 221,400
1906 103,981 7 „ „ 70,000 33,981 255,381
1907' 142,743 7 „ „ 70,000 £30,000 42,743 298,124
1908!! 142,187 7 „ „ 70,000 30,000 42,187 340,311
(5 p.c. on prefs.)
1909.. 156,502 ] 7 ££’ = }30,000 50,460 390,771
1910.. 211,808 j| r P ef C -;; 140,000 66,808 457,579
1911.. 209,138 }!££•” 64 ’ 138 521 ’ 717
1912.. 207,438 \ ” gjg } 40,000 62,438 584,155
1913.. 213,377{ 8 ” 25® 50,000 58 ’ 377 042 ’ 532
This finely-organised concern has nowadays a capi-
tal of £1,000,000 in 200,000 £5 ordinary shares and
£5OO 000 in 50,000 £lO 5 p.c. prefs. In addition
it has £2,263,140 in irredeemable debentures
(mostly at 4 p.c.), and another £376,473 in ter-
minable debentures (all but £2OOO of it also at
4 p.c.). Thus, unlike most concerns in the pastoral-
finance business, it works to a very small extent on
withdrawable money: liabilities of all kinds other
than to debenture-holders amounted at the end of
June to £2,998,688, including customers’ balances
(for produce sold, etc.), sums owing for mer-
chandise and balances in transit between branches.
On the other side —but this table puts the matter
in a few lines:—
Liabilities.
1900. 1912. 1913.
Capital .. .. £1,000,000 £1,500,000 £1,500,000
Perpetual 4£ p.c. 620,000 511,037 509,749
„ 4 p.c. 1,643,210 1,755,098 1,753,391
Terminable 4 p.c. 86,720 407,483 374,473
„ 3} p.c. 1,400 Nil Nil
„ 3i p.c. 21,145 2,600 2,000
„ 3 p.c. 105,670 Nil Nil
Sundry creditors 1,759,320 3,354,613 3,021,069
Assets.
Advances, proper-
ties, etc . . 4,609,575 6,304,247 6,401,640
Premises, etc. . . 277,189 669,718 676,977
Cash, deposits, etc. 196,763 1,284,522 894,098
In the foregoing Sundry Creditors are down at
£3,021,069, as against the £2,998,688 mentioned
previously; the difference is made up of interest
owing to debenture-holders and on pref. shares.
There have been times, perhaps, when the 4 p.c.
fixed debt has seemed a burden; but the policy of
securing financial supplies by means of interminable
debentures, instead of through withdrawable deposits,
is unquestionably the right one in a business of this
kind. Though it has its city agencies, and would
just as soon sell a motor to a suburban doctor as
to a backblocks squatter, most of Dalgety’s business
is with people who grow wool and wheat and butter ;
and no doubt the woolly connection is easily the
most important of the three. Now, from the very
nature of the business, wool is grown chiefly where
conditions are too uncertain for closer settlement
by wheat or cow cookies; and occasional failures
and heavy losses in the sheep-growing business are
therefore inevitable. On the other hand, there is no
business in the world where so quick a recovery can
be made. Hence the man or institution to pull
through is the one that doesn’t have to realise as
soon as drought has done its worst; wherefore the
enormous importance of having funds which are not
liable to be called for when things look gloomy.
Dalgety’s picked some of the fruits of its wise policy
when it passed through the ’9o’s without having to
make a composition with anyone. And it has shown
the same prudence in the recent fat years by sitting
hard on dividends and either writing off surplus
profits or putting them by to formal reserves^ —a
policy against which shareholders are all the less
likely to rebel because they know that, if things go
wrong, they will be liable for calls amounting to
£l5 per share. Mention of the fat years recalls
the , fact that properties (“advances, properties,
etc.,” in the foregoing comparison) no longer exist;
the chairman told shareholders at the annual meeting
that, “taking advantage of favorable seasons, we
have sold all the properties we formerly held.”
The National Mutual Life Associa-
tion of Australasia :
Writ- Added
Sept., Income. Claims. Expenses, ten Off. Funds.
1900.. £524,121 £294,974 £87,779 £690 £140,678
1901.. 566,417 303,190 90,971 725 171,531
1902.. 583,149 286,953 100,852 400 194,944
1903.. 634,071 303,836 112,270 217,965
1904.. 717,062 328,920 129,591 258,551
1905.. 762,906 361,053 138,370 963 262,520
1906.. 824,624 395,733 145,836 283,055
1907.. 898,253 374,809 157,512 1993 363,939
1908.. 970,611 407,168 162,342 4691 396,410
1909.. 1,043,801 449,957 157,147 427 436,270
1910.. 1,122,667 441,323 168,511 3640 509,193
1911.. 1,198,148 514,596 176,344 4744 502,464
1912.. 1,284,364 520,249 174,664 2016 587,435
1913.. 1,395,866 511,045 175,031 709,790
The National Mutual has thrown a lot of energy into
its work during the last few years ; and, not being so
tied up with redtape as some offices, it takes special
business which others turn down because they haven’t
got ready-made tables to meet the case. In other
respects it wanders off the regular track. Some-
times, in this paper’s opinion, the regular track is
safer; yet, admittedly, there are good pickings to be
had by wandering, and whether any bad results follow
is largely a question of management and close
supervision. Also, perhaps, a matter sometimes of
luck. For instance, there is the question of medical
examination. The advantages of medical examina-
tion are to some extent a matter of opinion. Evi-
dently, in the National Mutual’s opinion, you can
dispense with it very largely by a system of lay
reports. The immediate result is that, whereas the
A.M.P., for example, spends between 12 and 13 p.c.
of new-premium income in medical fees and doctors’
travelling allowances, the National Mutual last year
spent barely 5 p.c. The total outlay in this direc-
tion was £6737, while the new premiums amounted
to £122,897, exclusive of single premiums and con-
sideration for annuities. Whether the mortality ex-
perience will suffer remains to tie seen, though as the
system has been pursued more or less for a good
many years the society ought by this time to know
if it is on dangerous ground or not. Apparently it
doesn’t think so, seeing that medical inspection is
being cut out more than ever:—
Proportion of Medical Exes, to New Premiums.
New Medical
Premiums. Exes
1903 .. £68,456 £7503 10.9 p.c.
1911 . . 116,168 7844 6.7 „
1912 .. 120,518 7265 6.0 „
1913 .. 122,897 6737 5.4 „
For the present, the most obvious result of the cut-
ting-out of medical examinations is to produce a
shrinkage in the expense rate —due not perhaps so
much to the mere fact that the doctor’s fee is saved
as to the other unquestionable fact that thousands of
people don’t like the idea of medical examination.
And while the man with a weak spot may be
attracted to an office which has no medical examina-
tion, to be bowled out easily enough unless he gives
fraudulent answers to the society’s questions, it is
pretty certain that most of the people who have a
stupid objection to be examined by a doctor are
those who are so beastly healthy that they have never
made a doctor’s professional acquaintance. This field
is a big one, and the working of it is no doubt largely
responsible for the reduction shown in the following
figures:—
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
1904 ..£lB 1 5 p.c. | 1909 ..£l5 1 1 p.c.
1905 . . 18 2 9 „ | 1910 .. 15 0 3 „
1906 . . 17 13 9 „ | 1911 . . 14 14 4 „
1907 .. 17 10 8 „ j 1912 .. 13 11 11 „
1908 . . 16 14 6 „ | 1913 .. 12 10 9 „
The reduction is accompanied by a certain amount of
risk. The size of the. risk depends on the closeness
of the supervision already alluded to. Even now the
expense rate is not by any means low. Still, follow-
ing The Bulletin’s old plan of charging renewal
premiums 7 p.c. and single-premium business 3
p.c., the cost of the new business has been got down
to 92.3 p.c., which is a very marked improvement on
the figures of a few years ago. It brings the society
at any rate within speaking distance of the best,
from this point of view. But whether the reduction
is made at the expense of the mortality experience is
a point which revenue accounts won’t determine. The
actuary’s report and the bonuses must speak as to
that. The National Mutual is one of the very few
offices which haven’t adopted the system of annual
valuations. Its bonuses are distributed only every
third year. The last investigation was made as at
the end of 1910. It is to be hoped that in the
forthcoming report special attention will be devoted
to the effect (if any) which the no-medical examina-
tion system has had upon the mortality rate.
In one other important respect the National Mutual
wanders off the regular track. This is in regard to
investments. Most insurance people, believing that
absolute security is a consideration of overshadowing
importance, are nowadays inclined to put more and
more of the policyholders’ money into public securi-
ties, which are guaranteed by the whole taxable value
of the property in the State which issues them. The
National Mutual, however, looks on these securities
coldly, and prefers to take its chance with loans on
mortgage and similar investments. The following
table shows the disposition of the assets:—
1900. 1910. 1912. 1913.
Public securities 3.4 p.c. 5.1 p.c. 6.2 p.c. 5.6 p.c.
Mortgages .. 50.5 „ 55.1 „ 60 6 „ 59.5 „
Foreclosures . . 4.4 „ 1.3 „ 0.9 „ 0.8 „
Freeholds.. .. 12.7 „ 12.8 „ 10.8 „ 10.3 „
Loans on policies 14.3 „ 9.8 „ 9.6 „ 9.1 „
Other assets . . 14.7 „ 15.9 ~ 11.9 „ 14.7 „
“Other assets” include “deferred instalments of
annual premiums,” £139,681 —a highly questionable
line which no other insurance office of standing in
Australia maintains in its balance-sheet. The society
really takes credit for unpaid premiums, some of
which may never be paid. Not that there is any
dishonesty whatever about it, for where the item
doesn’t appear, the actuary, in making his calcula-
tions, takes the “deferred instalments” into account.
The effect of the National Mutual’s plan is to inflate
the balance-sheet, and make the proportion of mort-
gages and freeholds look rather smaller than it reallv
is. The natural consequence of holding so large a
proportion of the funds in mortgages is the earning
of high interest: —
Interest Earned on Averaoe Funds.
1904 .. £4 13 9 p.c. I 1909 .. £4 12 11 p.c.
1905 .. 4 13 7 „ | 1910 .. 4 13 3 „
1906 .. 4 12 8 „ | 1911 .. 4 13 0 „
1907 .. 4 11 6 „ | 1912 .. 4 13 4 „
1908 ..4 11 8,, | 1913 . . 4158,,
On the other hand, mortgages take a lot of watching,
and watching costs money in management. Also,
there are almost inevitable losses, in spite of the
best of management, and this society's investment
fluctuation fund is only £69,517, which is much
less than it ought to be.
J. Fielding and Co., Ltd., boxmakers,
printers and carton makers (Sydney), who began in
1910 with a goodwill or paper asset of £5OOO,
shown hereunder as a deficit: —
Towards
Profit. Dividend. Reserves. Deficit.
1910 .. —■ £5OOO
IQII ( Premiums on new shares £32 f
•’ \ £2750 10 p.c. = £1577 1173 )
Premiums on new shares 38 3757
1912 . . 3418 10 p.c. = 1801 1617 2140
1913 .. 2668 8 „ „ 1445 1223 917
When Thomas Davis and Co. made a valuation just
before the co. was floated, the assets were certified
to exceed the liabilities by £7867. As the vendors took
£867 in cash and 12,000 shares, the price paid for
goodwill was £5OOO. Besides those 12,000 shares
issued to the vendors 6068 have been issued
to the public; and though that didn’t bring
in as much capital as was required, the
business has done so well that, notwithstanding an
outlay of £9065 on land and building, the overdraft
(secured on mortgage) is now only £3976. Other
liabilities total £2276 ; but against that there are
book debts of £4045, in addition to stock and
plant. Still the co. would be safer and more com-
fortable if its liabilities were less ; and as the man-
agement recognises this the dividend has been reduced.
However, 8 p.c. isn’t to be despised, especially when
there is enough profit left over to pay very nearly
another 7 p.c. Certainly, profit in a case of. this
kind depends upon the stocktaking; a pessimist with
a liver not working quite right might value the stock
at a few hundreds less, which for that year, at any
rate, would lop that much off the profits. If the
stock has been properly valued, and other assets are
worth their book value, then the little co. has done
very well indeed to get rid of more than four-fifths
of the goodwill loading in three years. At the outset
the tangible assets were equal to 14s. 6d. per share.
Now they represent 19s. It is very good progress
indeed.
* * * *
The Australian Mont de Piete Loan
and Deposit Co. (Melbourne): —
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Apl., 1905.. £856 8 p.c.= £516 £340 £3442
Oct., 1905.. 863 8„ „ 516 347 3789
Apl., 1906.. 986 8„ „ 516 470 4259
Oct., 1906.. 950 8„ „ 516 434 4693
Apl., 1907.. 1014 10 „ „ 645 369 5062
Oct., 1907.. 655 10 „ „ 646 9 5071
Apl., 1908.. 664 10 „ „ 646 18 5089
Oct., 1908.. 757 10 „ „ 646 111 5200
Apl., 1909.. 696 10 „ „ 646 50 5250
Loss.
Oct., 1909.. 276 8„ „ 516 4458
Profit.
Apl., 1910. . 647 8„ „ 516 131 4589
Oct., 1910.. 614 8„ ~ 516 98 4687
Apl., 1911.. 1003 10 „ „ 646 357 5044
Oct., 1911.. 935 10 „ „ 646 289 5333
Oct., 1912.. 1333 10 „ „ 1292 41 5374
Oct., 1913.. 1698 10 „ „ 1292 406 5780
This co., whose motto is understood to be “Go on
the lend, young man,” now balances once a year
instead of every six months ; and that fact has to be
remembered when the eye is running down the profit
column. For the past year results have been excel-
lent ; they have been rather better than the figures
in the last line suggest, inasmuch as £4OO has been
written off Furniture and Fittings account. True,
almost everything depends on the valuation. If the
zhendleman who puts a value on the pledged over-
coat is an optimist he is liable to think very well of
the garment, in which case the reserves shown in the
table are optimistic also. The co. has “pledges,
stock and sundry goodwill items” valued at £32,551,
so there is plenty of room for optimism. On the
other hand, there is just as much room for pessimism.
The fact for the investor to note is that the stock is
of a nature which must make a valuation difficult, and
as to both profits and reserves he has to depend
wholly on the judgment of the management, which
can do no more than make an estimate of things.
Capital and reserves combined are only £18,286 ;
capital alone (now £12.911) used to be £25,176,
but the balance was written off after several of the
co.’s servants had taken serious liberties with the
cash. So the co. has to work on outside money to
the extent of over £16,000, chiefly overdrafts and
fixed deposits. As to the prospects, this and every
other reputable three-balls shop seem to be on a good
wicket. The idea that their harvest comes only in
bad times is exploded. People borrow, certainly, in
bad times because they are hard up and want neces-
saries; but they borrow just as strenuously when
times are good and they want luxuries.
Launceston (Tas.) Municipal Elec-
tric Light and Power Enterprise :
Loans plus Added Total
Transfers Revenue Work- to Sink-
fom from ing Sinking ing
Dec., Reserves. Working. Loss. Fund. Fund.
1899 .. £91,639 £6,414 £251 £3,487
Profit.
1900 .. 98,794 8,305 1490 £1054 4,541
1901 . . 105,616 9,653 2192 935 5,476
1902 .. 113,366 11,180 2913 1200 6,676
1903 . . 115,580 10,692 1795 1390 8,066
1904 . . 139,984 12,292 3710 1842 9,908
1905 .. 155,314 13,079 2489 1355 11,263
1906 . . 160,843 14,934 2794 2047 13,310
1907 . . 164,197 16,287 3073 1974 15,284
1908 . . 166,871 17,683 3414 2153 17,437
July,
1909 . . 166,972 1245 18,682
1910 .. 168,370 18,753 4873 2434 21,116
1911 .. 172,151 18,842 5743 2300 23,416
1912 .. 180,654 20,076 5536 2188 25,604
1913 . . 192,426 21,666 7221 2837 28,441
Thus the revenue from the business proper was
£21,666; and after paying working exes, and inter-
est there was £7221 left over for reserves. But in
addition to the revenue from the business there was
the interest received on the separately-invested sink-
ing fund and depreciation or renewal reserve; and
including that interest received, things show m>
like this: —
Revenue from working (less interest) .. £72<>]
Interest earnings on Sinking Fund . . . . 1170
Ditto on Reserve Fund .. . . .. 394
Total net earnings .. .. .. £B7SS
So now we can get a complete view of the net
income and the outgoings:—
Interest Added to Re-
Dec., Profit. Paid. Reserves. serves
1903 . . £9,841
1904 .. £8,247 £4191 £4056 13 597
1905 . . 7,886 4973 2913 lfi’siO
1906 . . 8,970 5601 3369 20 179
1907 . . 9,406 5698 3708 23’857
1908 . . 10,135 5897 4238 28 125
July,
1909 .. 2744 30,869
Reserves written off, £7787 23 08‘>
1910 . . 11,963 5826 6137 29,219
Reserves written off, £4364 24’s5j
1911 . . 12,458 5722 6736 31’,59l
Reserves written off, £4595 26 996
1912 .. 12,409 5714 6695 33’691
Reserves written off, £6231 27 460
1913 .. 15,184 6399 8785 36/245
The reserves are made up this way:—
Sinking Fund . . . . . . £28,441
Reserve Fund . . .. . . 8,359
Total . . . . . . £30,800
Less Revenue account debit . . 555
Total Reserves .. . . £36,245
The sinking fund is, of course, designed to accumu-
late profit and eventually pay off the borrowed
money, so that the municipality may actually own
the works which at present it merely thinks it owns,
the real owner being the moneylender who put up the
capital. The idea is to make the undertaking the
city’s very own in something under 50 years; and
though 50 years may be a long time coming, half a
century is far shorter than eternity. And without
a sinking fund the city wouldn’t really own the
business until then. Besides the sinking fund the
profits are feeding a replacement reserve, whose pur-
pose is to give the city a plant, etc., as good as new
when the time comes to pay off the last loan.
Whether enough is being paid into this fund to
counter-balance current depreciation, The Bulletin
is not prepared to say. As one of the foregoing
tables shows, the total amount available for reserves
last year was £8785; and this was cut up as
follows: To sinking fund, £2837; to replacement
reserve, £6231; total, £9068. But as there was
only £8785 of profit available, it follows that, in
order to make those appropriations, the council had
to increase the Profit and Loss account debit by
£283. In other words, the undertaking didn’t give
enough profit to pay to the reserve funds the amount
which it was thought necessary to credit them with.
This means either that the charges are a shade less
than they ought to be or the exes, are a shade more
than they ought to be.
Vic. State Coal Mine (Wontliaggi) :
The profit for the year to June 30 was £41,463,
which, together with previous profit, has been allo-
cated as follows:
Written off To Sink- Total
June, for Depreciation. ing Fund. Profit.
1911 .. £17,052 £7,050 £24,102
1912 . . 1,892 7,942 9,834
1913 . . 10,629 30,834 41,463
£29,573 £45,826 £75,399
The position is not, however, anything like so good
as it looks from those figures. Thus, though so far
£29,573 has been provided for depreciation, the
general manager estimates that the total deprecia-
tion has been £42,000. For the past year, it is
said that the depreciation was £25,546. That being
so, the net profit for the year, after paying interest,
was £15,917 ; and £9OOO of that goes towards the
repayment of capital. The fixed capital, raised by
the State, was £150,000, of which £7050 has been
paid off ; and £53,866 was advanced by the Treasury.
The total amount owing to the State on June 30 was
therefore £196.816; and other liabilities totalled
£31,591. Against that there are works (including
money spent on development) which cost £203,956,
and stores, cash and investments amounting to
£77,456. The accounts are very badly presented;
most public accounts are. As far as can be made
out the actual position is that, after paying interest,
the mine in three vears has earned £75,399 in
excess of outgoings; and the depreciation has been
£42,000. If the assets are worth £42,000 less than
they were brand-new, then the net profit has been
£33,399, of which, as mentioned above, £15,917
was made in the last 12 months. If, however, the
depreciation doesn’t include amortisation—in other
words, if it doesn’t provide for the return of capital
sunk in the mine, and used up as the mine has been
carted away and sold—then the aggregate net
.profit is much less than £33,399. Probably it is
less than half of it. And the profit for the past year
was less than half of £15,917. It is impossible to
say just how much, because the amount which
ought to be charged for return of capital depends on
the quantity of coal in the mine.
To put things on a proper basis, a fixed amount
ought to be charged on every ton of coal taken from
the mine, and the total sum ought to be used on the
one side of the books to write down (that is to say,
pay off) capital, and on the other to write down the
book value of the undertaking. This sum, made up
by charging (say) 2d. per ton of coal, shouldn’t be
reckoned as profit at all; it is capital consumed in
earning the revenue. The depreciation fund, on the
other hand, should be a fund, provided out of surplus
earnings, for the replacement of plant. In their
present form the accounts may mean anything. The
one thing one can be pretty sure they don’t mean is
that a profit of £41,463 was made last year. And
yet that is what they seem to be most anxious that
one should think they mean.
The general manager puts the matter as follows:
Cash at credit of Depreciation Fund. . £25.024
Cash at credit of Sinking Fund .. 16,962
Total cash in Treasury .. ..£41,986
Coal on hand, etc .. .. 3,807
AVorks constructed from Depreciation
Fund . . .. . . .. .. 163
Amount of stock redeemed .. .. 7,050
£53,006
• Depreciation.. .. .. .. .. 42,000
Net profit from the working of the
mine, after making provision for
working exes., interest charges and
the full estimated amount of depre-
ciation . . . . .. .. .. £11,006
In view of that, Heaven only knows what is the
good of the published accounts. Apparently they are
merely for ornamental purposes. Certainly you
couldn’t get anything like the foregoing figures out
of them.
The output sold for the year was 457,653 tons. It
is now computed that 21,006,000 tons are workable.
That is something over 45 years’ supply at last year s
rate of extraction.
* * * *
Some figures calculated to make people
who bought into mining stocks when they were
puffed up by last year’s boom metal-prices do some
hard thinking:—•
Copper. Tin. Lead. Spelter.
Average 1911. .£56 1 9 £192 7 0 £l3 19 0£25 3 2
„ 1912.. 73 2 0 209 8 5 17 16 0 26 3 4
Present .. 65 7 6 170 0 0 17 12 6 21 5 u
As recently as 1909 tin averaged £134 15s. 6d. for
the year, and in five years out of the past 10 tne
A LITANY: FOR USE AT CHRISTMAS (AND
MOST OTHER TIMES).
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’i.rth, Thursday.—The Premier (Mr. Scaddan)
has given notice in the Assembly of a Bill to author-
ise another loan of £2,000,000 for public works,
and the re-appropriation of certain loan moneys.
Brisbane, Saturday.—Mr. Digby Denham, Premier,
intends to catch the Orient steamer Orsova for Ade-
laide and London. He says his principal task will
be to arrange for the flotation of new loans, which
are necessary for the continuance of railway and
nublic works. —//73rd news item of the kind.
Denham’s off to Loandon town
(Three P.N.’s and an IOU),
Going to borrow half a crown
(Three P.N.’s and an IOU).
Bound for Loandon to pledge the State.
Whoop ! but isn’t the press elate !
What’s the total upon the slate?
Fifty millions—fifty-two ?
Scaddan’s wired to Loandon town
(When’s the last loan falling due?),
Though the Market’s sere and brown
(When’s the next loan falling due?).
Groperlanders wish to know
Whether they have any show
To increase the pile they owe —-
Thirty millions to renew!
Holman’s feeling more than queer
(Five per cent, is now the rate!),
Reckoning day is drawing near
(Five per cent, the lowest rate).
Not a bean in safe or bag !
Must he hoist the Deadbroke Flag
After his tremendous jag?
Save him, Loandon, from that fate!
Peake and Watt have got designs
(Let us pledge the glad New Year!)
On the steel, Chubb-coated lines
(Let us pledge this glad New Year )
Far away in Loandon town,
Where the Lombard sign gleams down,
And the market’s dry and brown,
What time Nemesis draws near.
Let us sing a Litany
(Uncle Cohen’s very quiet!),
All of us —and me
(Uncle’s menacingly quiet!).
Let us sing in monotone:
Can we raise another Loan?
We are Uncle’s very own ;
Therefore, surely, we may try it!
the litany.
By the millions that we owe ;
By the loans that monthly grow;
By the swarms of I O U’s ;
By the paper given to Jews;
By the loan we raised last week ;
By the press’s borrowing shriek,
Good Uncle, hear us !
By the works that do not pay ;
]By the cash we need to-day;
(By the railways (incomplete) ;
'By the tramways in each street ;
’By the worn-out plant and old ;
•By (he “assets” that we hold,
Good (Uncle, hear us !
*By opr Future and our Past;
’By good .seasons (which can't last) ;
By the grasses, which may burn up;
By the Rains, which inav not turn up ;
rßy the -Drought, il s adjacent ;
sßy the Slump, which now is nascent,
Good Uncle, deliver us!
’By the row with which we din you,
(Uncle, let our loans continue!
•We'beseech thee to hear us, good Uncle!
Heave money upon us!
;Let thy Loans continue to pour down upon us!
>0 Uncle Bull-Cohen, that floateth the loans of the
world,
lb Wild. , us thy cash !
diraciously incline thine ear towards us, and hear
our prayer !
Etc., etc., etc.
«r.«AV.
O. C. CABOT.


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (LIMITED)
is not only the Pioneer Trustee
Company of New South Wales but
is the LARGEST and STRONGEST
in Australasia.
BUSINESS ENTRUSTED TO THIS COMPANY
is dealt with by Experts, and the
Charges are Exceptionally Low.
Specially qualified to act as
TRUSTEE, EXECUTOR, ADMINIS-
TRATOR, ATTORNEY UNDER
POWER OR AGENT, etc.
WRITE FOR BOOKLET.
A. J. MACKENZIE, Manager.
2, 4 & 6 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
GAS ENGINES and
SUCTION GAS PLANTS
M4R*
contain all latest
improvements.
All engines thoroughly
tested before leaving
our works. [2
A great mistake, when erecting new works or re-
arranging old ones, is often made in constructing the
building and installing machinery ere looking round
for means of transport of the raw material, half-
manufactured and finished goods. Messrs. Adolf
Bleichert and Co., of London, have issued various
catalogues and leaflets, illustrating and describing a
few of the many transport systems and plants which
they have supplied, and which show the solution of
the transport question and the advantages of em-
ploying such appliances. W. and J. Lempriere,
Melbourne and Sydney, are the Australian representa-
tives, and would be pleased to hear from those in-
terested. A specially trained engineer is retained to
consult and advise.*
* * * *
Mine managers and engineers contemplating Re-
inforced concrete construction should write for par-
ticulars of the Indented Steel Bar, which gives the
greatest bond, and is the strongest and cheapest re-
inforcement on the market. Used by the N. S.
Wales and Queensland railways for bridges, by the
Sydney Water and Sewerage Board for elevated re-
servoirs, by the N. S. Wales Government Architect,
and by all the leading architects. . Should guaranteed
designs be required for concrete structures, our ex-
pert will be pleased to furnish plans and descrip-
tions. Apply, Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.*
* * * *
Efficient grinding is one of the many problems
that mine managers have to solve. The Hardinge
Conical Mills have proved to the Calumet and Hecla
Mining Co. that grinding is not such a difficult
problem ; they have installed 64 of them, and say
“the Hardinge Conical Mill is the most efficient
grinding machine we have yet gotten hold of.” If
they say this of the mills, it should be worth the
while of mine managers here to inquire about them.
The Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are
the sole representatives for them in the Common-
wealth, and will be glad to forward particulars.* [1
Extract from Financial News. London, July 12,
1911: “The annual report of The Colonial Mutual
Life Assurance Society affords abundant evidence
that ‘Forward’ is still the watchword of the directors,
for in every direction admirable progress has been
achieved.”*
PIONEER WOOD PIPE spells economy from start
to finish. First cost—freight, labor, upkeep—all come
to less than in the case of metal pipe. Its quality
is well known in Australian mines. The Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., 57 York Street, Sydney (Head
Office).*
Ample evidence of the increasing popularity of
the Hornsby manufactures is the fact that no less
than three mining cos. —Goldsworth Gold Mines
Ltd., Uralla; The Phoenix Gold Recovery Co., Hill-
grove ; and The True Blue Mines, West Wyalong—
within one week after exhaustive enquiries have
placed their order for the “Hornsby” Suction Gas
Engine and Plant. These plants are recognised by
experts to be thoroughly up to date, simple to work,
and a vast saving in fuel used, charcoal or coke
being all that is required to produce the gas, and
the small amount of attention required. R. Hornsby
and Sons Ltd., Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane.*
LARGE CAPITAL AVAILABLE. —Good mining
properties. Industrials. Patents. Properties in-
spected and business propositions investigated in any
part of Commonwealth and abroad. Reply with par-
ticulars to Private Box No. 49, General Post Office,
Melbourne.*
The highest returns for all kinds of residues are
obtained from Harringtons Ltd. of 386 George
Street, Sydney, who buy large or small quantities of
jewellers’ sweeps, polishings, handwash and lemel,
process workers’ residues, plating baths and any
other materials containing gold, silver or platinum.
Assays are executed for jewellers within two or three
hours, and prospectors and others are assured of
immediate attention. All kinds of analytical and
metallurgical work can be executed promptly and
advice given on all branches of industrial chemistry
and metallurgy. The whole of the work is directed
by a qualified analyst and metallurgist from Johnson
and Sons, London, Assayers and Refiners to the Bank
of England, H.M. Mint, the Council of India, etc.,
and who are acting as London agents for Harring-
tons Ltd. for the treatment of large parcels of
sweeps, residues, ores, etc. Direct shipment of such
lots can be arranged.*
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.*
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
* ♦ * *
H.M.A.S. Australia, now in Australian waters,
is fitted entirely with Babcock and Wilcox Water-
tube Boilers, similar to the H.M.S. New Zea-
land and other Dreadnoughts recently built for the
Admiralty.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
Assayers, Mine Managers and Prospectors write
to H. B. Silberberg and Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, and at Melbourne, for particulars concerning
mining requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s
disc pulverisers to 200 mesh ; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospectors’ balances to 1/1000.
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles; chemicals; etc.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
average has been under £l5O. Like all other com-
modities it should move up and stay up, if there is
anything at all in the theory that the enormously
increased production of gold has cheapened that
metal and thereby caused higher prices, gold being
our one standard of value. On the other hand, the
largely-increased attention given to dredging may be
expected to give the tin market a downward ten-
dency. As a matter of fact, the tin market defies
all efforts to fathom it. It got down in 1896 to
well under £6O without any justification whatever
from statistics; and though there is no reason now
to expect anything of that sort, it is just as well to
remember all the time the extraordinary vagaries of
the animal.
Before Denham left for the London pawn-
shop with Queensland’s credit in his pocket and the
right to tax Queensland in his bag, the president of
the Merchants’ Association dropped in with a letter
of advice. Briefly : “Lay hold of as much loan money
as possible. No matter what it costs, the State can
stand it.” Queensland is the old, hard-drinker
whose last previous drunk isn’t all paid for yet.
Twenty-five _ years ago the ass of the period was
saying precisely what the Merchant Ass.’s president
is saying now. And the result was that Queens-
land’s three banks went so disastrously bung that
the biggest of them hasn’t paid a dividend to this
day, but is still busy paying off deposits which it
couldn’t pay back when they were due; the general
manager of another committed suicide when he saw
the dreadful mess into which the borrowing in-
sanity had landed his shareholders; and the third
has still so much leeway to make up that even now,
after nearly 25 years, its shares are still a long
way under par. Surely it’s about a fair thing to
square up for the old drunk before bursting out into
another.
* * * *
At the recent half-yearly meeting of the
Bank of N. S. Wales the chairman said the directors
had decided upon demolishing the old premises upon
the corner of Barrack and George streets, Sydney,
and erecting up-to-date head offices. This will be a
sort of celebration of the centenary of the Bank.
In its 96 years of life it has had but three head
offices. The first was a building in Macquarie-place,
adjoining Reibey-lane, which was rented from Mrs.
Reibey. In the early ’2o’s the head office was in
Chisholm’s Thistle Inn, a quaint old building which
stood on the site of Bradley’s auction rooms that
were and the Burlington Cafe that is. In 1853, at
the sale of the old Military Barracks site, the direc-
tors purchased the spot, on which they placed their
modest headquarters, the Commercial Bank securing
the Barrack-street corner. Between the banks were
two shops, in one of which Hoffnung’s made their
start. In the early ’6o’s each bank secured the
adjoining shop, which gave the two institutions the
whole frontage between Barrack and Wynyard streets.
* * ■* *
The Privy Council delivered its judgment
last week in the Sydney Meat Preserving Co.’s ease,
and Miles, the plaintiff, is knocked out in the last
round. It is law, of course, because the Privy Coun-
cil says so, and the Privy Council speaks last; but
whether it is justice is quite another question. The
principle laid down is that, though a company may
be formed to (presumably) pay dividends to its
shareholders, it need not do anything of the sort,
but may buy its supplies from certain shareholders
at such a high price that no profit may be avail-
able for distribution. This aims a very nasty blow
at joint-stock enterprises. Supposing a co. is formed
to carry on, say, a printing and stationery business.
Under this decision the directors need not ever pay
a dividend (the Sydney Meat Preserving Co. never
has paid one), but may abolish profits by the simple
device of letting the shareholders have their printing
at 25 p.c. under cost. It would be outrageously
rough on shareholders who didn’t want any printing
done, but no rougher than it is in the case of Miles,
who, though the largest individual shareholder in
the Meat Co., has no stock to sell, and therefore
gets no benefit whatever from his holding in the co.
The Colonial Mutual Life directors send
their policy-holders a bulky Christmas card, in the
shape of a summary of the report of the Vie. Govern-
ment inspectors who lately overhauled the society’s
affairs. Of the many conclusions at which the offi-
cials arrived these three would, standing by them-
selves, be sufficient to make many a policy-holder
spend a happier Christmas this year than he did
last, when wild rumors about the office were still in
circulation: —
“(1) We are satisfied that, at the date of our
investigation, the Society was solvent and able to
meet all its liabilities, both immediate and prospec-
tive.”
“(2) We are strongly of opinion that the charges
of fraud, dishonesty, mismanagement and incapacity
made against the directors and managers in the
petition presented to Parliament in September last
are wholly unjustified.”
“(10) We are of opinion that the business is now
being conducted on sound principles, that the policy
which is being pursued should have the effect of
further reducing the business costs, and that, if the
confidence of the public is retained, the results in the
future should be materially better than they have
been in past years.”
British Consols, at £7l 55., are lower than
any living man has ever known them to be before.
At that price they give the investor a penny or two
over 3i p.c. ; so the Treasurer who expects cheap
money on any “Colonial” security is in for a disap-
pointment. In ordinary circumstances, such a price
would suggest that Britain was on the verge of a
gruelling war. But present circumstances are not
ordinary. The drain of capital has recently been
tremendous; and, in addition, the increase in the
world’s output of gold has been so huge that the
metal has become cheaper, which means that you
have to pay more of it to buy a given quantity of
goods. Hence the increase in the cost of living,
which has been followed, naturally enough, by an in-
crease in the wages, not only of labor, but also of
capital. We can no more expect to get capital at
the old rate than we can expect to get carpenters—
or members of Parliament.
“Y. & A.”: At last a State Government
has recognised its obvious duty to encourage the
search for petroleum in Australia, the only un-
proved oil-country on earth. The South Aus. Govern-
ment has offered a bonus of £lOOO to the first per-
son or co. to obtain from a bore or well in the
State 100,000 gallons of crude petroleum containing
not less than 90 p.c. of products obtainable by dis-
tillation under certain conditions to be observed
by claimants. What is meant by the cryptic 90 p.c.
proviso will probably be understandable when the
conditions of the subsidy are gazetted. With its
vast belts of tertiary rocks in its western division
and its unparalleled deposits of kerosene shale in
the east, N.S.W. should go and do likewise by offer-
ing a bonus for petroleum produced from a well.
The kerosene shales of N.S.W. will ultimately be
drilled through, and crude petroleum will very likely
be found in the porous oil sands far below the oily
shales.
Spelter, though still nearly £5 cheaper
than it was 12 months ago, recovered 10s. last week
—the result, no doubt, of the renewal of what is
known as the Zinc Convention for two years. The
“convention” is a combine of all the principal zinc
smelters of Europe to regulate the output and con-
sequently the price; and the methods by which this
is done were indicated lately when some tens of
thousands of tons of rich zinc concentrates were left
for months in stacks along the Broken Hill line.
Earlier in the year it looked as though
there might be industrial trouble at Broken Hill
while 1914 was an infant; but the men—especially
those on contract—are making such rattling good
wages (anything up to 18s. or 20s. per shift) that no
disturbance is now apprehended.
Apart from the gamble in the Carpathia
squibs and for that the public has to thank the
Sydney daily papers, which allowed themselves to be
used so disgracefully—Great Cobar was the disaster
of the year in the mining market. Opening at a
little under par (£5), the finish was at 15s. 6d. —
with every prospect of a still further shrinkage, in
spite of the arrival of 8., M. and Co. on the scene
as general managers. Other copper stocks generally
are weaker, having followed the metal market down-
wards ; but a steady lead market has kept most
Broken Hill stocks steady. In the case of the North
there has, in fact, been a well-deserved rise.
The heavy metal for the B. H. Prop.’s
new steel works at Newcastle is now coming to
hand.
Occidental (N.S.W.) has full ore bins;
and 40 stampers are kept busy. There are 60 head,
and it is intended to put the lot in commission when
the sand pump is repaired. Assays from 4585 tons
hauled in eight weeks have been excellent, averaging
from 12dwt. to 21dwt. The last fortnightly lot was
1102 tons, worth 15dwt. 21gr. Included in that
were 408 tons of 30dwt. stuff. The long interval of
three years since the last dividend was paid, and the
uncertainty about profits from the deeper levels,
keep the share market depressed, in spite of good
yields. The Occidental is, the bears say, a patchy
show. But if the mine is big enough, that isn’t
very serious. For instance, the Waihi (M.L.) is
horribly patchy.
11. Woodward, of Parkes (N.S.W.), is
erecting a plant to treat 50,000 tons of slimes pur-
chased from the Myalls and Peak Hill Co. Wood-
ward, who has much experience in cyaniding in
N. S. Wales, is the enterprising person who worked
the low-grade stuff at the London mine, near Parkes,
for some years, merely crushing the ore with rolls to
about the size of peas, and then cyaniding it direct.
Ultimately values dropped, the workings reached the
sulphide zone, and the venture blew out; but the
operations proved the possibility of profitably rough-
crushing and cyaniding ore under favorable condi-
tions. It was, moreover, probably the first experi-
ment in direct cyaniding lode matter in Australia —
on a working scale, anyway.
Production of radium bromide is a pain-
fully slow and tedious process ; but the Radium Hill
Co. has got far enough on to now promise a continu-
ous output of standardised product. The first lot
available was 40 milligrammes, which found local
buyers ; but the price isn’t mentioned. Bowie Wilson
lately overhauled things at the co.’s mine in S. Aus.,
and wasn’t enthusiastic; the concentrating plant is
badly designed, he says, and several of the leases are
not worth hanging on to.
The Great Pitzroy Co.’s Mount Chalmers
(Q.) still struggles for existence. During November
2123 tons of ore were treated showing 3.37 p.c.
copper, and 2.6odwt. gold, and the lot yielded
£15,687 (with copper at £67), while the working
expenditure ran to £15,979. This cannot go on for
ever ; but there is too much capital at stake to give
in without a stiff fight. Shortage of water is the
latest excuse for the poor showing.
* * * *
Mammoth (Q.) reports unexpectedly
striking a copper lode in the Chieftain mine, at the
230 ft. level. The main lode has been followed in
the winze from the 160 ft. level. At 33ft. this
winze carries 2ft. of ore assaying 15 p.c., with low-
grade ore extending into the hanging wall. The
south level is now in 461 ft. from the crosscut at
the 160 ft. level. They are through the richest por-
tion of the shoot. Another mine, the Clansman,
reports assays of 20 p.c. copper, lOoz. silver, 15dwt.
gold from below the 80ft. level. The 15dwt. gold
per ton is very choice.
Mount Morgan has had a fire, and some of
the month’s copper and gold is still in matte that
the plant has been unable to treat. Mount Lyell,
warned by a similar disaster, is installing allegedly
fire-proof power houses, and it is up to Mount Mor-
gan to do likewise. Morgan has produced 3897 tons
of copper in 24 weeks. The revenue, taking the
base metal at £6O, was £457,643 ( £233,820 for
copper and £223,823 for gold)—a handsome £57
Bs. 7d. worth of gold per ton of copper. But the
market for Morgans closes rather weak, and would
be still weaker if the Baillieu-Robinson syndicate
wasn’t standing behind the stock.
Gympie (Q.) is still hopeful of striking a
third bed of slate beneath the conglomerate. Monk-
land and Inglewood will sink to 1650 ft. in the
expectation of cutting the Great Eastern reef. It
may be easy enough to reckon at what depth the reef
should be met with, but the position and thickness of a
gold-bearing bed of slate are a gamble. The South
Glanmire and Monkland is working a conglomerate
formation at the 990 ft. level, with floating slate
floors carrying leaders; 20 head of stampers are
employed during the day shift. The East Oriental
and Glanmire has been assisted by a Government
subsidy. They are down 428 ft. below the 2154 ft.
level, and are hopeful of meeting with a reef. But,
in general, the field is exceedingly depressed.
Brilliant Deeps, Charters Towers, comes
along with a crushing worth £5 7s. 9d. per ton
( £2184), following £3 9s. 6d. per ton in Novem-
ber. The two lots together averaged about £4 ss.
from 998 tons. A close clean-up at the mill
probablv accounts for the sudden improvement in
the yield. The cutting of a water-catchment in the
underlay shaft below No. 6 level exposed 2ft. of good
stone. Ten head of stampers have been kept going,
but profits have been small and quite insufficient to
feed 150,000 shares. Under improved conditions with
regard to ventilation, the Deeps should give a better
account of itself.
Victory. Charters Towers, hands out a
threepenny div. The aggregate return for 10 months
was £13.584 from 1560 tons, and one or two other
payable little lots have come in since then.
No other Government than the Tasmanian
could have agreed to such a one-sided agreement as
the Balfour railway contract discloses. The co. is
to try to build the railway, but if it fails to com-
plete the job the Government must take over the
work and pay to the co. all the money spent on it.
At latest the Government had given the co. a further
two years to complete, and as the co. has already
spent £40,000, which it must be recouped in case
of failure, the Balfour shareholders will have some-
thing substantial to draw, anyhow. The co. holds
the thick end and the middle of the stick; and the
Government is such a boob that it isn’t likely to
hold even the thin end for long.
The quantity of ore sent along to the
furnaces indicates a bumper Christmas return for
Mount Lyell, which has got so far back to normal
that general-manager Sticht is going to the other
side of the world for a long holiday.
Ivulamadau (Woodlark Island) faces a
2d. call. Reports have mentioned small profits from
time to time ; the last £62 came from a run of six
weeks. Such small profits don’t pay administra-
tion, bank interest and sundry expenses. This
Papuan show has undoubtedly a big ore body, but
working costs—23s. per ton—about make a tie of it
with the gold recovered.
Maoriland’s famous old Waihi paid its
quarterly shilling this month. There are now
73,053 shares on the colonial register, as compared
with 64,918 in September. This increase of 8135
shares indicates returning confidence at this end, and
the share market shows a big rise over slump prices.
Tongkah Compound, the remarkable patch
of tin ground at the head of the Siamese Harbor
which the Tongkah Co. is dredging, gave a profit
of £35,600 during the half-year; and, accumula-
tions having been drawn upon, £40,000 was paid
in dividends on the 50,000 £1 shares. Including the
amount payable on Dec. 19, the shareholders will
have received 395. per share, or in all £97,500, in
18 months. And the co. will still have £B6OO in
hand, plus the value of the December output. It is
magnificent, and it would be still more magnificent
if it would last. But, apart from the slump in the
tin market —the quotation has fallen £5O per ton in
a year—the ground held originally by the co. is
only enough to keep the co. going for about five years,
and additional purchases have given it a life of but
12 months’ more. The new ground has been well
bored and proved to carry 1.691 b. tin oxide —very fine,
but still a good way short of the 2.541 b. averaged dur-
ing the past six months. Lately, since the half-year
closed, the dredge has been on even better stuff,
averaging just under 31b. The percentage of profit
is dazzling: after paying the Government royalty, the
product netted 32.57 d. per cubic yard, while costs,
though higher than in previous terms, were 6.08 d.
Future profits depend on the price of tin; and, though
they will no doubt be excellent while they last, the
slump in the market will lick off a lot of the cream.
Deebook is Captain Miles’s “baby,” now
that he has dropped the Tongkah, of which he was
also the father. Mostly Deebook is a Miles family
affair, which, like the Tongkah, hopes to scratch a
fortune out of the Malay Peninsula. The dredge
with which it proposes to make a first attack on its
350 acres was shipped from Victoria last week, so
there has bfeen no dawdling so far about the business.
+ * # #
South Australia, the wheat State of
the Commonwealth, has dropped back to third place ;
while in N. S. Wales so much new ground has been
put und«i the plough—largely through the opera-
tion of tne Commonwealth Labor party’s land tax—
that under average conditions the Ma State’s harvest
is now twice as great as that of its western neigh-
bor. An estimate of the N.S.W crop now being cut
makes it worth approximately £6,800,000; 'Vic-
toria’s, £5,800,000; S. Australia’s, £3,150,000;
Westralia’s, £2,250,000. This is net, after paying
or allowing for railway freight.
“Tawonga”: Pirate Enterprise, nosing
round for concessions, is casting glances at the water-
sheds of the Kiewa, Ovens and Mitta rivers (Vic.). A
flying survey has been made of the Upper Kiewa, which
has such a fall that generating stations could be
erected, one above the other, for miles. At Tawonga,
at a low estimate, the water supply would be 60ft.
wide and Ift. deep, with a flow of from four to five
miles per hour ; the fall is about 100 ft. to the mile,
and higher up it is more. Melbourne is only about
200 miles away.
“Youth and Asia”: Beachport (S.A.) is
another neglected port which has become decadent
through the insane S. Aus. policy of dragging everything
to Adelaide by rail instead of allowing the primary
products to find their way to their natural ports.
Shortly after the Mount Gambier to Beachport rail-
way was opened the Mount Gambier Shipping Co.
was established to take the wool, potatoes, wheat and
barley grown in the district to Adelaide or Mel-
bourne or London. A little too much went to Mel-
bourne to please the S.A. Railway Department, so
the railway was extended from Mount Gambier to
Narracoorte, and connected with the trunk line.
After that Beachport languished, and the shipping
co. was forced to disband. The harbor has 50ft. of
water at its entrance, and a natural channel to a
fine jetty only needs a little dredging to make it
available to deep-sea steamers. But the accursed
policy of pulling all produce to the capital cities
lies like a dead hand upon Australia, and prevents
Beachport becoming a live, populous seaport. Its
destiny to be the natural outlet of the rich S.E.
district of S.A. will some day be fulfilled, yet there
must be an entire change of policy, which at present
seems as unlikely as that George Reid will be able
to crawl through the eye of a needle into the King-
dom of Heaven.
“Lud” : Deeley, the buyer of the bloated Bed-
ford property in London, probably represents a Yankee
syndicate. The estate includes Covent Garden, which
was really its nucleus. “Covent” is a corruption of
“convent” ; Convent Garden was an open space north
of the Strand, belonging to St. Peter’s Abbey, West-
minster. After Henry VIII. had confiscated the con-
vent, the garden site remained vacant for a time,
and became a sort of Paddy’s Market, for vegetable
stalls, which stood up against the garden wall of
Bedford House, in the Strand. In that day there
were a few mansions on the north side, and many on
the south, with gardens to the Thames. The general
population was clustered in East London and West-
minster, the Strand being a road between them. In
1631 the Earl of Bedford put a quadrangle of build-
ings round his Paddy’s Market, but had craft enough
to preserve and encourage the stalls, which grew
into the present vast building's in 1831. The Bed-
fords came into the property through a bit of bad
luck which befel the Somersets. When Henry VIII.
confiscated Convent Garden he tossed it over to the
Duke of Somerset; and when the latter lost his head
for treason, Edward gave the property as a titbit
to the Earl of Bedford.
“Red Tape” : The life of the public servant
in N.S.W. has taken on a new terror. It is a tradition
handed down from the earliest days that you mustn’t
bustle the accounts branches of the public depart-
ments. In an endeavor to hasten the gradual account-
ants, the Stores Supply Committee on July 1 entered
into contracts containing a clause that the contractor
would allow a 24 per cent, discount if his bill was
paid within a month. When the departmental account-
ants got wind of the scheme they all voted it a good
idea, and gave the Stores Supplies Committee credit
for an awakening intelligence. Unfortunately the
scheme was forgotten in mid-career, with the result
that many of the departments are paying their July
and August accounts now'. Wherefore, to the horror
of all concerned, these delayed vouchers are coming
back from the Auditor-General with a curt intima-
tion that they have been paid too late to claim the
24 per cent, discount, and the remark is accom-
panied by a polite request that the officer responsible
should make the loss good within seven days.
Watt has taken the “Corner” bull by the
horns and thrown it out of his new Victorian
Ministry. The bull, which made most of the
trouble the other day, demanded two salaried
portfolios and two honorary jobs, and as
Watt wouldn’t stand that.much, the bull
would take nothing. The animal’s next
move will probably be to go back to its stall
and be disagreeable. Watt’s idea, of course,
is to whip all members into complete sub-
servience to one party or the other —in other
words, to make members pretend to endorse
things they honestly don’t endorse. Under
the party system Parliament is becoming a
place where it is useless to look for a man
with opinions of his own and the pluck to
stand by them. If the machine doesn’t man-
age to squeeze such a man out of the pre-
liminary ballot, and he gets into the House
by accident, he is the last person in the
world the party leader wants to see in the
Cabinet.


S LIKE PLAYING HAMLET and leaving' out
the Prince of Denmark to buy Penduplicate Books
not supplied with “Zanetic” Pen-copying paper. If
security is valued, and permanency of copy desired
it is VITAL to be sure you are supplied with
“Zanetic.” Copies that fade are useless. “Zanetic”
paper ensures permanency of copy, whilst the latter
is denser and more distinct than the original. Of all
Stationers, or from Makers, S. B. Zanetic, Wei ford-
road, Leicester, England. Sample sheet, 2d. post free *
Under
Royal
Warrant
To H.M.
George V
CHAMPAGNE
CharlesHeidsieck:
Reims
l-X ,
A MARTYR FOR YEARS.
“For years I was a martyr to liver complaint,”
writes Mrs. Corlett, 112 Clyde Street, Ballarat, Vic.
“Would get dreadful sick headaches and be unable to
eat. I consulted a doctor, but he was unable to do
me any good. Eventually I tried Chamberlain’s Tab-
lets, and derived such benefit from them that my
health is now perfect.”*
WORLD
RENOWNED
BRAND
STUHR.
STUHRS
Genuine Caviare,
Anchovies in Brine
(SALTED SARDELS).
In Tins and Glasses.
Sold by all High-class Provision Dealers.
C. F. STUHR & CO., HAMBURG.
English Export Agent:
W. LOVEGROVE, LONDON, E.C.
VERY OLD COGNAC.
OTARD BRANDY
1875, 1860, 1848, 1820 VINTAGES.
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, December 2% i9i3.
My Dear Arini, —
Parliament opens early this week in a
subdued whisper. There won’t be a cocked
hat or lace frill present. Even the lady-
voter is too busy with the Christmas ham
to worry about anything that may happen
in Macquarie-street.
The average A.D.C. must be a lineal
descendant of the Wandering Jew, for he
rarely stays very long in one situation.
Governor Bosanquet, who retires from S’Aus-
tralia, doesn’t leave his young gentlemen to
walk behind his successor. Both Help
Walker and Help Fletcher are likely to
bustle off to their regiments, the Grenadier
and Scots’ Guards, unless someone falls on
their necks and implores them not
to desert Australia. The son of a Howard of
Glossop is in the running for Gover-
nor Strickland’s staff, though he is not
a certainty. The Glossop barony is just
old enough to be well aired, but the Fitzalan-
Howard who is coming our way, being di-
rectly descended from England’s premier
ducal family and the grandson of Queen
Victoria’s favorite Vice-Chamberlain, is a
rather terrifying Social circumstance.
New A.D.C. Robbins has hurried off to the
vice-regal cot, at Sutton Forest, to pay his
respects to the Stricklands, who now culti-
vate chickens and early rising on that salu-
brious hill top.
The Christmas gift—an annual nuisance
Which hits the perpetual giver very hard —
is stalking in our midst, and people are buy-
ing things they have no use for, in order to
pass them on to friends who are equally
short of house room for superfluous lumber.
The frantic Christmas shopper, after, a mad
pursuit of the articles she really wants, in-
variably gets home a week before the Feast
with a tram fare and both arms full of brown
paper parcels containing snares and delu-
sions she never meant to buy. And even
then she hasn’t bought everything, where-
fore she goes shopping again on Christmas
Eve, which is one of the dates whereon Adam
can consider himself lucky to be dead.
News drifts in to the effect that Melba is
still keeping her little home together with
the results of her American tour. In dollars
the sum is too vast to be handled without the
aid of a chartered accountant. In mere
sterling it works out at £50,000 —the lowest
figure. A mere £40,000 was actually guar-
anteed as the Australian skylark’s share of
a trip in which Kubelik’s fiddle carried off
another big whack of dollars. In N’York
the Hippodrome held £2020 at a concert on
Sunday evening, November 2. Mrs. Melba
sent a Sydney friend a photo of the house
from the booking-office point of view. Seats
and their prices were arranged with the pre-
cision of cabbages, and the fat proceeds were
gathered together in figures for the camera.
To the guaranteed £40,000 an extra £lO.OOO
was added as percentage profit. A N’York
music-machine man, writing here, says that
Melba is singing even better than she did
five or six years ago, and her ’phone records
lick creation.” After this, “decadent” Aus-
tralia can lean back and wonder whether its
climate hasn’t produced the only imperish-
able voice of the age.
Still another yoice is trembling on the
horizon. This time it’s a lyric soprano,
aged 18 years, owned by Renfie Maxwell.
I m not sure about the way Renee likes to
spell her front name, but the other part is
plain sailing. Quinlan heard this voice
floating round the gallery at a pre-opera
performance in that lofty perch during the
now defunct season. He stamped upstairs
(it was about 7.45 p.m.), heard some more,
and went off and dropped the girl a word of
advice. The enterprising Thomas suggested
that the Voice should get into training for a
year or two, and then take a billet in his co.
He says it’s one of the lyric sopranos the
world hungers for. A benefit concert to
help the girl with her exes, to Europe is
likely to occur in March.
The Leo Cohen-Gladys Henriques wed-
ding the other evening started in the Syna-
gogue and finished up with a sit-down
supper in the home at Bellevue Hill. Who
says there are no housekeepers left in this
city of restaurants? Every course at the
supper-banquet was cooked on the premises
in the family kitchen; and an epicure de-
clares that he hasn’t over-eaten himself for
years with so much pleasure as he did at
the Enidor wedding feast. The bride’s
beautiful dress just missed the prevalent fish-
train by an inch or two. It was draped in
some foamy white material, over the fash-
ionable blush of faint pink which is the last
word in 1913 bridal plumage. Her bouquet,
shaped like a fan, was a lovely trifle, with
a frivolous lace background. The bride
flung this symbol of matrimony at a bevy of
girl pals. I fancy Miss Beattie emerged
triumphant out of the, scrimmage. The
troom, who. is a son of Df. A. A. Cohen, of
>arling Point, built a ptetty dove-Cot for his
bride on Bellevue, as I told you before, and
thoughtfully settled it On his best gifl as a
wedding present;
Miss Kitty tidy, on 6 of the sheeff-reffring
family whose flocks feed on the sffnburnt
pastures out Warren way, has said “Yes” to
a Vitginian who lives in Ugahdd. This is
as near to the facts of the cdse ds a vaghe
acquaintance now gadding in Europe could
get. Miss Kitty, who has been wandering
in other countries, met her fate on her
travels.
Fiddler Cyril Monk and Miss Petersen
(Isabel Varney) were quietly wed in St.
Philip’s Church this week. No young lady
under a mosquito net veil, no top hats, no
snorting procession of petrol cars were in-
cluded in this knot-tying. So the Voice
that breathed o’er Eden was not stifled with
confetti.
_ Miss Kater, a daughter of the late Edward
Kater, of Mumblebone station, Warren, is
going to marry Frank Crawford, and settle
down to domestic duties in England. The
groom-to-be has something to do with the
laying down of cables to the uttermost ends
of the earth. The good-looking Minnie and
her mother have been staying on the other
side for a while.
Mrs. John McCormack and her sister,
the gentle Miss Foley, are still petting the
two babes of the family at Rose Bay. They
depart in the Niagara on January 12, with a
ton or two of baggage, and a retinue of
maids, and gather up John and his com-
pany in Auckland.
The majestic Butt and her Kennerley
Rumford are back in Sydney, collecting any
loose cash that John McCormack forgot to
bank.
The veteran singer Nordica and her
party, the Panama Commissioners, and a
well-known Java tea planter named Neu-
mann went off in the Tasman. “Who’s
Who” (the brute!) puts Nordica’s birth-
day in the year 1850, but you needn’t believe
it. I don’t!
■Bertie Adams, a N.S.W. girl, is touring
John Bull’s provinces with Huntley Wright’s
co. in musical comedy. She is a daughter of
the Dr. Adams whose stethoscope used to
take soundings up Chatswood way. The
Adams family moved on to the United States,
but soprano Bertie, a former pupil of Mrs.
Slapoffski, is doing steady business in the
land of the British drizzle. (Do you know
that London’s actual rainfall is just half of
ours, and only a pointer two more than
droughty Adelaide’s?)
J. and N. Tait have engaged the Kennedy
family—the N.S.W. musical team which is
just back from a world tour —for Christmas
week in Melbourne. The soprano will be
Dorothy Grfce.
Oswald Anderson, a promising song writer
from this town, is earning buttered crusts as
pianist to Peter Dawson on the other side.
Peter is the young Adelaide singer who is
perambulating Britain with considerable
success. He and Ada Crossley warble the
ditties written by Anderson, and find loud
demands for more awaiting them.
“Goody” Goodman, whose presence was
missed at the front door of Her Majesty’s
during the opera season, is back in his old
stand. He took half a holiday at the Royal
while “The Ring” and other long-winded ar-
guments were clamoring for a hearing at the
Pitt-street theatre.
The English Revue girls are fine, strapping
young women, with no unduly humble ideas
about their place in creation’s hymn. Writ-
ing before seeing their highnesses in war-
paint, I may hint that no dazzling beauties
threaten to rob .our girls of their prizes, if
they’ll hold their chins well up in the haughty
London Revue style.
Conductor Wynne Jones has written most
of the chorus music for “Aladdin,” who fLds
his lamp at the Adelphi Theatre this Christ-
mas. It is said to be a melodious back-
ground for the book —the latter the work of
A. E. Martin, a well-known Australian
pressman and theatrical promoter. Mabel
Batchelor’s trills will decorate the ad-
ventures of the Principal Girl; Grace
Palotta’s cherry-colored tights will envelop
second-boy Koko; and Carrie Moore will
skip back to her old place as Principal Boy.
Josephine Davis, the brown-eyed Tivoli
charmer, who is just out from ’Murka, is a
character artist with a voice and some frocks
you’d like to take away while the owner
wasn’t looking. The Wild Life Preservation
Society may lie in wait for the new arrival
and forcibly remove a few yards of osprey,
and some bird-o’-paradise trophies, otherwise
they’ll waggle in the air while the Voice
gets through its business. Lucille, the Duff-
Gordon dame, who very nearly went to the
bottom of the sea when the Titanic found-
ered, still turns pale, Miss Davis says, if the
conversation swings off hooks and eyes to ice-
bergs. She is responsible for some of
Josephine’s frocking. Redfern, of Paris,
looks after some more. All these gowns
show the slim, silhouette effect, the film of
lace over the shoulders and the cunning
drapery of the French skirts. A black gown,
like a slice of midnight starred with bril-
liantSj has the Turkish trouser skirt, cut
to show a pair of feet that fill a child’s size
in shoes; A cloth-of-silver robe, with a pale
pink flush-o’-dawn ground, is held together by
one hook and a half and a foam of lace, de-
signed in cobweb pattern. This is rather
finer than the web the confiding spider hangs
on your picture frames every Sunday morn-
ing. Emerald green clouds of drapery, and
garlands of tiny blhsh-pink roses set in
leaves of gold gauze, are details no daughter
of Eve should fail to copy; A blue gown
hung with these baby blooms is a French
model that would turn the head of St. An-
thony.
Woman, according to a French writer,
spends her time (he is not sure about her
eternity) making up her mind whether she
will simulate a folded umbrella or a fire-bell.
Just now the umbrella has the upper hand
Still, even the umbrella vogue has its ad-
vantages over the Greek costume, which has
also made a re-appearance. The umbrella
lady is at least tidy on a windy day,
whereas the lady of Athens is liable to wear-
some of her drapery over her head when a
sudden gusty breeze whisks round her san-
dals.
If the recent Teachers’ Conference had
sharpened any small hatchets, it buried them
all in a harbor launch-party at the end of
the confab. Some of the State-school marms
murmur at the tendency to cram the young
child with more “vittles” than it can digest,
while plain English grows cold as a small
side-dish. But there is a worse grievance
even than that —a grievance which declares
itself in a hand held out for equal pay for
equal work. Some day the hurt feelings of
Miss Pedagogue, who draws less cash than
her male colleague in exactly the same grade
of service, may be soothed by the balm she
clamors for. At present she is in receipt
only of that less marketable commodity, “De-
partmental sympathy.”
Miss Dumolo, the youthful-looking princi-
pal of the Kindergarten Training College,
waded waist-deep in statistics concerning the
efforts of the past year. The portentous
wedge of information having been handed
over to the company that met in St. James’s
Hall the other evening, Under-Secretary
Peter Board srave the successful students
their certificates. Any uncertificated per-
son or non-prizewinner at the break-up of
1913 is almost as rare as a bunyip.
The Sydney Grammar School break-up
was nicely talked at by Governor Strick-
land, and permeated by the ’Varsity Mac-
Callums and many other proud parents, who
hurried along to see their offspring walk off
with the usual December clutch of prizes.
Young MacCallum, a tall youth given to
study, was heavily laden with rewards of
industry. A thrifty dame was so much
struck with the fact that the boy has quite
outgrown his male parent, the learned little
Professor, that she whispered that the son’s
nether garments would cut down beautifully
for father. This habit of looking at
trousers with a pair of scissors is peculiar
to the Good Mother species which flocks to
these affairs. Headmaster Sloman —a vet-
eran of 29 —made a delicate allusion to his
own leanings towards science and history;
he is not nearly so rabid about classics as
the older school of pedagogues. Hence he is
likely to have his youth flung in his face
by the Greek and Latin antiquities.
Little Jack Lindsay, who won the Bowen
House scholarship in Brisbane the other
day, is the eldest of artist Norman Lindsay’s
three bright youngsters. Brains seem to be
a habit in this family. The precocious
scholarship-winner can now help himself to
three years’ tuition at Brisbane Grammar
School, and demand, free of cost, any litera-
ture he may require on the passage.
The Austral Orchestral College has added
the wail of its fiddles to the breaking-up
choirs which always howl on the verge of
December 25. Alfred Hill and Downs John-
stone were in charge of the teachers and
students’ rally in the Repertory Theatre on
December 19.
The petticoat portion of the G. H. Reid
party has been sniffing the sea breezes in
the roomy hotel at Clifton Gardens.
The Justice Sly family is booked for
flight some time in March. They will move
their Saratogas over the most attractive
scenery in Europe.
Mrs. M. Forrest, the Queensland writer,
who belongs to the ancient Mills family of
Parramatta, has wiped her pen for a brief
holiday. She will eat her Christmas pud-
ding hereabouts.
The Christmas turkey scrimmage is driving
numbers of usually-settled Sydney folks off
to mountains or seaside. Mrs. Steer Bowker,
whose health hasn’t been up to its old bril-
liant form of late, meditates a trip to her
married daughter’s up-country homestead.
Mrs. Jim Gordon, as you know, used to be
Gladys Bowker. Pretty Marjorie and blue-
eyed Barbara are invoiced for the same
journey if their mother’s health gets no
worse.
Mrs. Martin Donohoe, who lingers here
till March, is still camping at The Gunyah
with her sister, Mrs. Clunies-Ross, the slen-
der Ashfield dame who looks like a minia-
ture by Bess Norris. Journalist-husband
Martin, possibly in search of more of those
war _ alarms in which he specialises,
hurried off in the Orama.
The fashion of one parent more or less
surprising the other with a portrait of the
finest children on earth is taking root here
The G.-Gr. gave it a kind of kick-off in Mel-
bourne with the “great secret” the Power
portrait of the Denman youngsters, which
was waiting to welcome her Ex. when she
tripped back from England. llow much in
the dark. the parent who is on the spot
actually is, when one or two juveniles are
getting their hair curled to sit before
an easel about twice a week, the parent
never mentions. For the last month or so
the Macneill Simpson household held its
breath and tiptoed over its prodigious
secret. The small, blue-eyed maiden of the
house was sitting to Florence Rodway for
her portrait—and there was much hair-
tying and blue ribbon in consequence. Last
week, when Dr. Mac had a birthday, the
great secret, his little daughter’s picture, a
present from her fond mamma, was handed
over to her more or less astounded papa.
Mrs. Harry Rickards, who came back
from Britain some time ago, is going
to be in her old haunt in the Town Hall
basement on Christmas Day. The annual
Rickards feast to the poor—or 1000 of
them—will occur at noon.
Miss Marcia Brace, the English horticul-
tural lady who, two years ago, bought a
property at Yarraford, now let on a lease,
has gone off to Maoriland on a holiday jaunt!
She departed in the Makura with the Quin-
lan Opera Co. and the McCormack party,
after many attempts to sail the seas during
the now-dead strike. Even the Canadian
mail-boat didn’t get away to time, and pas-
sengers hung over the sides for the best part
of a day, wondering if they could diagnose a
crew on the horizon.
A returned wanderer who knows the lead-
ing cities of Europe fairly well suggests
that it would pay Sydney to send
some of its aldermen to inspect Berlin. There
the civic management has reached a crisis of
cleanliness that would almost stun the casual
person who scatters dirty papers and breaks
every municipal bylaw all over our parks and
streets. The German frau has not a voice of
any consequence in the civic or political life
of her country; but even without her help
Berlin is so clean you could eat off its pave-
ments. “Australian women who have now
the weapon of the vote,” says Mrs. Sydney-
sider, ‘‘ought to use it better, and get into
the active management of civic affairs. No-
thing is more disappointing to a returned
Australian, after many years’ absence from
her native land, than to note the apathy of
women in regard to the municipal affairs of
their lovely but untidy city.”
Baker’s Stadium is going to house a huge
athletic event on January 7. The proceeds
go to the Royal Hospital for Women (the
largest in the State to deal only with the
woes of one sex') and the Renwick Hospital
for Infants. Both institutions are within
the fold of the centenarian Benevolent So-
ciety, which will reward R. L. Baker with a
shrill pipe of thanks.
Henceforth the Nightingales at St. Vin-
cent’s Hospital will have large and airy
premises in which to spend their short hours
of ease. The new Nurses’ Home is built in
the Spanish fashion, round a garden square
or patio. The rooms are bright and cheery
havens for weary limbs, and fresh air pre-
vails. St. Vincent’s has always dealt more
tenderly than most big hospitals with its
staff, but considerations of space used to
block the way against the little luxuries
now supplied by the new Home. The old
hole-and-corner methods which some of our
big Australian hospital committees once
considered good enough for nurses, whose
hours usually range from 12 to 14 out of
every 24. are dying hard ; still, the end is in
sight. The spacious Nurses’ Home in St.
Vincent’s grounds was officially opened on
Sunday afternoon.
There is nothing new under the moon.
Even the tango—which is going to obsess
the next dancing season here, if the English
tangomania be a safe forecast —is not new:
it is primitive barbarity, slightly diluted
with ragtime. It is the apotheosis of all that
is grotesque—the modern caricature of the
rhythmic dance movement. As already seen
here, it is a cross between Turkey trot and
Bunny Hug. The dancers give way sud-
denly at the knees about every three sec-
onds, while the coat tails of the male part-
ners fly out like sails, and the lady’s bolster
skirt strains at its moorings. After threaten-
ing to sit down suddenly every other minute,
the pair rush madly round locked in a fierce
embrace which makes the Apache method
look like a mild drawing-room entertainment.
The Sun’s London correspondent speaks
of “our old friend Wallingford” in attend-
ance on Queen Mary. So ephemeral is fame
that even the suave smile of Better-not Wal-
lington is now confused with the airy persi-
flage of Get-Rich-Quick Wallingford.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


litres 10 toe^eaj*
JJut Cobra’s tf)e
of if)em oi v
rl
Ws
/m
®P«
V
:
$
, , U-
-2i
v
,S,
JF
V
"v*’
l/l
mJ
»
!#4i
Wi
£/##®sr
&
3k<&
t
oJsm?
r rf
w
6#/ ilfi
y^»
Wif/M
Ik zwaßhoizi
.
1
&
TZ&
i
-.^wS
.v' .;<
✓ ,
Jflll
5r
#=V
§? v . x ., * '^P
E&«'A^V'jd^3si r ' \
II
.^V^.V.
fmmmsmmi
;%*■
£
Sl§®
»- 1
s&
%
&
¥® v > C^^.
c r“'^^;> jA
I*-®-’ ..«a v '
. >
e> &
Si
isfpe^
Cobra, s>be Boot Polish
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Welcomes in
The Year that’s New.
With the bagpipes
And the whisky
Chunder and his friends
Grow frisky.
All the revellers
D rain a jorum
Ere they dance
The Tullochgorum.
Then cries Chunder gaily,
c> j 5
“ Hoots, mon !
COBRA for yon
Shoes and hoots, mon * ”


25 he BEST!
Farmer s Men s Panamas
ag
For the Christmas Excursion and for warm
.Summer days no hat is so suitable as the
Panama. It is light, cool and comfortable.
Farmer’s smart styles are all moderately priced.
Our comprehensive assortments include a style and
a width of brim for every wearer, special features
being the Telescopic and low, dressy Alpine
crown.
Brims 2}, 21 and 2jf inches.
Prices from 21 1-
We Pay the Carriage.
FARMER’S SYDNEY,
Pitt, Market and George Streets.
II
The final touch of joy to a joyful holiday
is given by the royal brand King G. IV.
whisky. With the aid of this topnotch pal
everything in the garden is all the time at
its topnotchiest.*
Two interesting series of reminiscences
are at present running through The Lone
Hand. “Hop” is telling the story of his
work in America before he came to Australia'
and The Bulletin ; and ex-Minister B. R.
Wise is releasing the political cat from the
bag concerning some of the doings of the
Lyne Ministry.
It’s Easy
to get Years of
Service from
Garden Hose if
you only order
"Dunlop” Brand.
The Strength of Canvas,
Quality of Rubber, and
Scientific Construction
of
has resulted in millions of
feet of this durable Hose
being sold in Australasia,
AND THE DEMAND
CONTINUES — WHY?
Its freshness and proved
superiority over im-
ported Hoses is one
reason, but its greatest
feature is the way it
stands years of use
without bursting.
Made in Three Qualities “
DUNLOP," “ OCEANIC,” “FEDERAL"
IN VARIOUS STRENGTHS.
OBTAINABLE ALL LEADING STORES.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
}-H*C
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, December 22, 1913.
My Dear Yarrie, —
The city is very Christmassy, and hot citi-
zens are swearing weakly outside-shop win-
dows in which imaginative assistants have
stuck fat images of Father Chimney grin-
ning like an unseasonable lunatic in red
flannel and cotton-wool. The streets are
cumbered with bare-legged youngsters, the
sorrowful wheeze of the tin trumpet is heard
through the traffic noises, and house-
Avives are busily preparing to overfeed all
hands with hot, spiced food suitable for a
bleak July.
The Denman dame —a persistent hunter
of antiques—is going to have a show of art
treasures at Government House. The Very
Best People are lending their treasured
“pieces” to spread alongside the Denman
hoard on a date which is not fixed yet.
Lady Denman handled the Repertory
Theatre dance meeting on the 15th like an
expert in such matters She put the high-
brows through their evolutions, and nailed
down necessary points with precision at the
right moment. During the costume discus-
sion, Cornish, of the Melbourne Club, held
up the traffic while he made a few unneces-
sary jokes. He was at once pulled up by
the businesslike chairwoman, who adroitly
turned the laugh against him. She dispensed
tact throughout the meeting, and earned the
grateful applause of those who wanted to
get things done. One man suggested tab-
leaux such as he had seen at a big charity
ball in Paris, run by actors and actresses.
All the costumes were from stage tableaux,
and, as the pictures broke up, those taking
part joined the onlookers in the hall. It
looks as if it would be an improvement on
the usual procession.
The Repertory Co. has had no fixed address
thus far. Its literary drama has happened
at various places—the Athenaeum Hall, as a
rule—and the culchawed few have followed it
around town. Given a permanent abode it
might tempt also the Goths to drop in some-
times to see what was doing.
The Denman dame and the Anglican arch-
bishop, both dressed in perfectly lovely
clothes, recently dispensed prizes, smiles and
good advice to the Merton Hall students.
Merton Hall is the Church of England
Grammar School for Young Ladies, and the
Tone of it is tremendous. The Town Hall,
where the solemnities occurred, was filled
with party frocks and pigtails : and the in-
fants they were attached to gushed prettily
just as their mothers did before them, and as
their daughters will do after them. The
wretched flat hat and the expectant smile of
the Church were also to be seen on every
hand. The children were hustled out and
homeward in chattering flocks at 9.30.
The Denman dame then mounted to the
upper regions, where Mayoress Hennessy, as
president of the Alliance Frangaise, was
giving a party in French. (No, my dear,
not in Choctaw—in French!) Whereas Mer-
ton Hall “broke up” in the Town Hall, the
Alliance people reckoned they were in
“L’Hotel de Ville.” The place blushed
vividly in scarlet carnations, and the Council
Chamber was pink with rose-decked supper
tables, at which the Best Fed took their
nourishment, while the crowd hustled for
refreshments at the buffet in the portico bal-
cony. Her Ex.’s French was good; but,
then, she probably paid a lot for it. She
wore a tiara above an apricot-colored gown
and a collar of black velvet and pearls. John
Madden, seated impressively at the special
sup Der table, conversed in Franco-Irish, or
something of the kind, till he was purple
with exertion. His wife inhabited a neu-
tral-tinted gown and was quiet; but Mrs.
Hennessy, in pink, talked at phonograph
speed. A Hennessy nephew, Irish right
through, wandered about disconsolately. Mrs.
Liet was a conspicuous figure in black ; and
local Help Crespin took cover behind a
mound of strawberries and resolutely re-
fused to converse in anything but plain Aus-
tralian. Guy Madden evidently deserted in
the face of the enemy, for he was not sighted
at all. After supper, music saved the situa-
tion for those who didn’t know. There was
less conversation than usual while the music
was being put through. Kirby, of the fero-
cious lip-whiskers, and Lovie Cadorin sang;
Beryl McAdem, the amateur fiddler, sawed
off an item or two; and Rene Vanderkellen
talked from the platform.
Clara Butt is a poor sailor, but she reck-
oned it well worth while to brave the horrors
of Bass Strait for a clear profit of £6OO for
two nights of song in Launceston and Hobart.
Government House was put at the Butts’
disposal in Hobart. From Hobart and its
stacked apple-cases (artist Hal Gye has a
nightmarish impression of them in the holi-
day book he did with a brother-in-ink) Clara
and her Kennerley motored back to Laun-
ceston. shipped across to Melbourne, and
trained on to Sydney, lingering for one night
en route at the Macedon home of the Arthur
Baillieu pair.
The Butts will leave some of their con-
cert people behind them when they clear
from Sydney. Advance-man Roland Foster
finds he cannot tear himself away from Aus-
tralia, and intends to settle down and teach
in Sydney. Frank Carter, violinist, after
much wandering in strange places, will also
sit down in his native city and wield a
skilled bow within calling distance of artist
Norman.
Last Wednesday night the Opera House
stalls and circle were dotted o’er with smart
“sports,” male and female, and the air was
heavy with expectation. One of the boys
had bet Miss O’Hara a tenner to a goose-
berry that she wasn’t game to go on the
stage and perpetrate a ragtime ditty in Gene
Greene’s prize competition. The sporty man
(Doolette) had to part up. The surgeon’s
dauntless daughter rose to the occasion and
warbled her ragtime lay in a small, tuneful
voice. Afterwards she filled one of the chairs
on the stage along with a dozen nervous
young men who were taking the job seri-
ously. In her white serge outfit and yellow
thatch the lady faced the house until the
time came for the contestants to line up and
receive their respective meeds of applause
from the audience. Then somebody whis-
pered her and she retired into the “wings”
shrugging her shoulders. Afterwards she
sat with her pals in the stalls to see
the second part of the show. Stage fright
doesn’t run in Miss O’Hara’s family. Her
dashing surgical dad, just now in England,
used to let his manly baritone go at Melb.
Town Hall concerts occasionally. Tradition
credits him with having been an ideal Cap-
tain Corcoran in amateur “Pinafore” per-
formances. And brother Clive is the hand-
somest conjurer in the business. He started
a - a magician under Rickards management,
years ago, when his hands were slicker than
his tongue. Nowadays he figures adorably
at the halls in London and thereabouts as
Henry Clive, and drawing-room patter is his
speciality. So the O’Hara colleen was only
following in father’s footsteps and walking
in her brother’s way.
St. Kilda’is doing its official darnedest to
be wicked or “Continental” with a munici-
pal dance-liall; and a number of people are
doing their best to save it from sliding into
the Pit. Amid the racket, the promoter can
be heard writing to the papers that he claims
to have as much decent feeling as the people
who are against him and his “Palais de
Danse.” The name did it. Even before the
foundations were finished a decorous depu-
tation, accompanied by umbrellas and Vida
Goldstein, had clamored on the mat of the
seaside council; and since then the noise has
merely increased. Pending the start of the
actual infamy, the pier flappers and their
boys are getting quite a lot of entertainment
out of the written wails of “Father of Ten,”
“A Mother” and other apprehensive citizens
who seem to think the pen is mightier than
the Lord.
Mrs. Guyon Purclias, who has a first-
cousinly claim on Melba, enlivened the dog
days somewhat by giving a party to the
most important Arts and Crafts workers.
You can imagine just how technical the
meeting became when the invited had shaken
down. The grand old subject of crochet
was debated from all angles, while poker-
work was argued in three volumes. The
Crochet Guild president—one of the hand-
some Miller dames—had given the job up in
despair, and a desperate party of plotters
lurked in a corner and made efforts, while
the tea was poured, to reconstruct. The
younger guests played croquet on the lawn
to the music of a string band which twanged
prettily under an old-fashioned rose pergola.
(Oh, I forgot to mention it! The party was
held at Fairlie Flats.) Mrs. Purchas, look-
ing as much like a fashion-plate as possible,
drew her guests into a cool, shady lounge,
where Miss Ingram drafted them carefully
into a pleasant foodery behind closed shut-
ters. The men help the Arts and Crafts a
lot, but only three heroes ventured to the
tea party; Montgomery, president of
the Artists’ Society, was one of them.
Mary Cholmondeley was in the vortex, of
course. Miss McGeorge, who is running the
A. & C. Depot, which is to bring more money
into the concern, rotated close by. At pre-
sent, the A. & C. has only subscriptions to
feed on ; and subscriptions are an uncertain
diet, though the impetus given by the Carmi-
chael and Northcote dames has helped it to
keep going for five years. Mrs. Ernest White,
a Geelong woman who has promoted herself
to Toorak, divested herself of a few ideas
which lnok valuable. The social butterfly
was conspicuously absent, though the func-
tion was well strained in a social sense. Evi-
dently there are many Earnest Women
amongst _ the first flight. Some of them
looked with stiff-kneed horror at the rugs and
cushions spread invitingly on the lawns, and
didn’t relax until maids hurried along with
chairs. I don’t know whether their sense of
propriety kept them upright, or whether it
was just their corsets.
Mrs. Charles Tait gave a party last Fri-
da v at Gnaroo —the quaint house without a
chimney that baffles Santa Claus and angers
him so that he kicks the stuffing out of his
reindeer costume. The guests absorbed tea
and cake in a regulation way, as if they
were fathomless. The object of the gather-
ing was to say “How d’ ye do?” to Mrs.
Jack Scot, a favorite sister of the numerous
Tait brethren, who has just returned from
foreign places. Various other returned voy-
agers hurried along to the festivity and
made appropriate noises. Of course
everybody noticed Mrs. Scot’s Paris
frock of silk, pink striped like a stick of
lolly, with a duck of a vest. Nowadays, a
vest is as important to a fashionable woman
as is the vast white chest-covering to a
successful alderman. Mrs. Charley Tait, the
hostess, struck an effective note with her
quaint panniers—black tulle fins sticking out
from her clinging blue crepe-silk dress.
Ex-widower Thompson, of the Riverina,
and his new bride are rounding off a Tas-
manian honeymoon with a week at the
theatres and the Oriental. Mrs. Thompson
is making it a sort of continuous dress
parade. She lived up to ljer reputation
as a striking froeker even on the turbulent
sea trip across the Straits. The cut of her
flannel deck-coat turned women green with
envy—or those who were not already green
with other emotions.
The Creswell dame, who has drifted back
into social affairs after a long spell of mourn-
ing, finds the whirl appalling after the quiet
of ordinary existence. The Melbourne
Society squaw is always in a fever; when
so-called gaieties slacken, there is some
charity stunt to work or tango for, or
a ticket-selling job, or a job of plain bri-
gandage. The Creswell lady, looking on at
the whirlpool with a calculating eye, has
decided to hold aloof from everything except
naval shows. Henceforward she is a special-
ist. She is off to her native Adelaide hills
for a cool breeze during the dog days.
Guy Innes, who for some years has been
wedded to his job of news editor of the Mel-
bourne Herald, found time to commit
bigamy, so to speak, the other day, when he
painlessly extracted the usual “I will” from
Miss Grey, one of Melbourne’s lady dentists,
who did not lose her femininity when she
grasped the forceps. Keith Murdoch, who
represents Sydney Sun in these parts, was
with difficulty induced to don the frock coat
of a shameless life for this occasion only,
and, as best man, was not the least imposing
part of the entertainment. Guy and his
bride are now honeymooning among the
orchards and historic tombstones of Tas-
mania.
Dr. Seymour Armstrong and his wife are
staying with Mr. Seymour Davis, a Mel-
bourne bank manager. The visitor is Brit-
ish Representative in snowy Labrador, and
can talk like a Pole-hunter about Esqui-
maux, frostbite and furs.
Lilian, the late “Dolly” Devlin’s daughter,
who some years since took a voice and in-
come to flourish in the Smoke, is about to
add a husband to her possessions. Albert
Rawlinson, son of a Cold Country vicar, is
the selected man.
Miss Tudehope, a Melbourne violinist of
some note, is shortly to be married to Dr.
Gibbs, one of the Collins-street specialists.
Harold Hunt, of the hundred waistcoats
and the three-volume motor, is off to America
to an accompaniment of matrimonial whis-
pers. Hunt bounded through America once
before with a tennis racquet, and did deadly
execution amongst the girls.
Goll, the dreamy, Chopinesque pianist, is
taking on an Australian job under a German
name at Melbourne Conservatorium. He
steps into the shoes of Scharf, who moves up
higher to help fill the Marshall Hall niche.
Marshall is not returning to this country.
A new feeding place has been thrown or
dashed open in the new premises of a city
store, and all the people who are curious
about such things are running to find out if
the tea is good and the girls pretty. Every-
thing is painfully new at present, and there
isn’t one cup with edges like a sawblade. The
spoons are so bright that you don’t need a
purse-mirror, and an odor of romance clings
to at least two of the tea-maids. One of the
pair is alleged to belong to one of the best
English families. She is beautiful and pen-
sive and has a moated-grange look. I once
knew a girl-cashier in a pork shop who had
just the same look, but this one may be
the genuine article. And now I come to
think of it, the other may have been genuine,
too.
Steaming records have been going over-
board along the coast. The speedy Howard
Smith boat Canberra raced round to Mel-
bourne from Sydney in 32 hours 57 minutes.
The Mcllwraith boat Katoomba smoked
close behind and swept past Gellibrand
light 38 minutes later; and as the
Canberra had been given a start, the differ-
ence in actual steaming times was only three
minutes. The Canberra went into dock here
and had a crop of marine rubbish scraped
off, so the captain reckons that he can now
cut an hour off his ship’s time. But life is
full of disappointments, and when he first
tried to do the clipping he ran into a heavy
current at Green Cape, and couldn’t manage
anything better than 35 hours and some odd
minutes.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
Henley-on-Torrens and the inter-collegiate cricket
were the chief items in the social dissipations of the
past week. The former occurred on Saturday on our
solitary river-lake; and in spite of a glaringly hot
day there was a kaleidoscopic crowd of sightseers
both afternoon and evening. House-boats and mar-
quees decorated the south bank, and there the City
Fathers, members of the Adelaide Club, the South
Australian Rowing Association and other notables
entertained their friends. White shoes and stockings
(especially the stockings) were the most conspicuous
features of feminine attire below the knee ; north of
that point, washing frocks, shady hats and parasols.
The Kookaburra Rowing Club (women only) captured
first prize, in both afternoon and evening competi-
tions, for a decorated boat. Mrs. Jack Lea, Mrs. G.
H. Dean, E. T. Smith, Miss Phillipps, Dr. and Mrs.
Symons, Mrs. Arthur Rymill, Miss Campbell, Miss
McMillan and Mr. Leslie Dean were amongst those
who shared the tea and shade available.
Professor Mitchell and his two small children have
gone off to Colombo, where they will put in the long
vacation. Mr. E. H. Bakewell and his sons and the
W. G. Hawkeses, of Koonoona, were 1
the same boat, but they were booked for London b>
The Inter-collegiate Cricket Match resulted in
easy win for the bluc-and-white team and drew "h
moderately large and enthusiastic crowd to the Oval
the Governor and one of his daughters were presin t
His Ex always turns up at College sports and speech
days. Incidentally, headmaster Girdlestone aired
views at the St. Peter’s breaking-up, and said
some emphasis that the modern school-infant had too
soft a time. 100
The Chief Justice, who has been on the sick lm
for months, was back at the Supreme Court W
week looking as if he were still fit for a little work
He has filled part of his time in writing up iud£'
ments, and otherwise clearing up judicial lumber
The University women held their annual dinner at
Jackmans on Wednesday. It was an impressive
affair, as only two of the guests couldn’t claim to
be graduates.
The E. W. Frazers and their daughter, who’ve been
here seeking the pleasure remedy, or rest cure wil
return to Sydney by the Otway.
Brian Swift, son of the doctor, who has been im
bibing learning at Cambridge, has incidentally estab-
lished for himself some reputation as a golfer He
scored two wins against the Royal Wimbledon Club
last month.
Lionel Fletcher, our ex-newspaper man parson
has arisen with the hungry light of advertisement
in his eye to announce that Port Adelaide is a
sink of iniquity and most of its inhabitants deep-
sinkers. They drink, gamble and otherwise cut loose
while the Law remains asleep or wilfully blind. And
fancy, my dear, I’ve been missing all the fun through
sheer ignorance. How do the saints get the address
of these things?
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


N
■earn
1*
'jMm
m
m
IsSS
■
kMii
.
; s ':- v
m
I
ax#:
■
: ‘ *■■
’ it's ** *> •
x ..
!
4
■'•4
■
i
11
Jggg|
.
•.
.
/4
1
Joseph Simpson, R.B.A,
Copyright.
Joh n
Dewar & Sons
ROB ROY
This Picture is the Fourth of a Series of colored Portraits of Famous Scots published by
JOHN DEWAR Sf SONS, L T - Scotch Whisky Distillers, Perth &P London


\s
Boh Ami
For
Windows
Cleaning
windows is
the easy
task with
Bon Ami.
02
Bon Ami has a velvety fineness and
does its work without scratching.
t For
Painted
Wood
Worh
Bon Ami
will not hurt
the paint-
removes the
dirt only
Bon Ami
G*
The moat wonderful cleaner in the
world invaluable because of its
many uses in the home.
[I
“Kuscobin”: It’s not every man knows when he’s
on a really good thing—quality calls to quality just
as deep calls to deep. But there are some good
things no man can miss—and one of them is Helidon
Spa. Just you watch the connoisseur call for his
drink next time you’re in a high-class bar. No doubt
about him—he says right off “Whisky and Helidon.”
Sometimes he says this or that brand of whisky—
but he’ll say “Helidon” every time. The wine drinker,
too—hear him call for “Claret and Helidon” these
hot days—he knows that just asking for Spa may
mean anything down to plain Sodawater. That’s
the tip—and it’s well worth remembering. Always
split it with “Helidon” and you’ll give a sparkle, a
snap to your favorite liquor that brings out the best
that is in it. So healthy too —Helidon Spa is the
only true Australian Mineral water that has genuine
Osmotic qualities—therefore now and at all times
“Cornstalk”: It does an Australian good to travel,
it only to find out how good Australia is. I v ®
lately been about Germany and the Continent o
Europe a deal, arid used always be meeting to
going to “take the waters.” There’s no doubt these
Mineral Springs in Europe do a lot of good, but
was surprised to come across a statement in the
Lancet some time ago definitely stating that our
own Helidon Spa was the finest mineral water i n * ®
world. 1 tell you this was a startler to me, bu
since I’ve been back I’ve tried it and quite agree
with the Lancet. The best whisky and the bes
wine both taste better still if you split them
with Helidon. A doctor chap explained to me
that the reason of that was that Helidon had a hig
percentage of Lithium —it mellows the whisky an
prevents that next-morning head by eliminating any
noxious ingredients from the system. So it does oo
—you take my tip and always
Split it with
HELIDON SPA
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
A NATURAL CONCLUSION.
1ST BUSHMAN: “ There was a terrible fire while
I was dozen in Sydney. It burnt out 12
families .”
2ND BUSHMAN (astonished): "Twelve families!
Cripes, it must have covered a few thou-
sand acres!”
“Pick”: “Marloo” (B. 4/12/T3) ques-
tions the veracity of the Darwin Chow who informed
“J.J.C.” that his stock-in-trade consisted of
gohannas’ gall-bags. All the same, almost any old
gall is marketable with the yellow peril. Before
the bear was wiped off the Australian landscape,
Chinese often paid as much as five bob for the galls
thereof. They also buy crows’ galls in any quantity.
I have frequently heard of their fancy for the like
innards of gohanna and carpct-snake, and when my
mate and I once set out to earn our fortunes by
shooting cormorants for the fourpence per scalp
paid by the N.S.W. Fisheries Department, we largely
augmented our earnings by selling the galls to a
gang of neighboring heathens at threepence each-
“Machete”: “Pick” (P». 27/11 /T 3) refers
to the porpoise as a wholesale fish-destroyer. A
much smaller but quite as destructive sea wolf is our
friend the “tailer,” or, as the Yankees call him,
the bluefish. It is an education in slaughter to see
a school of tailers clean up a shoal of mullet. Like
the porpoise, the tailer seems to often kill for the
mere joy of it, leaving a trail of fragments behind
him as he rushes with his mates through the huddled
mob of mullet. By the way, can any Abo-liar tell
me if the fish is called “tailer ’ because, as Queens-
landers assert, he tails up the great niullet shoals;
or should it be “tailor ” because of the marine
beast’s shear-fitted jaws ?
* * # *
“H.S.”: The treatment of his womenfolk
by our cannibal brother of Malekula (New Hebrides)
is brutal. At the age of six or seven, as soon as the
permanent teeth appear, two of the upper lot are
knocked out, and the girl, after adopting a yard of
calico, is ready for sale. When a purchaser appears,
she is taken up to his village and “left” there, as
they say. This is not a mere betrothal, as with
some tribes, but an actual marriage, and its conse-
quence can be imagined. A woman is unwelcomed
at birth, unhonored in life and unwept at death.
Boys live with their mothers until they are six or
seven years of age, when they are circumcised;
shortly after, if father can afford it, they are
initiated into the first rank of hara, after which
they must cook their own food. From their earliest
daj r s they are trained in the use of the bow and
arrow, and the great ambition of their lives is to
possess a musket. For a musket they will even go to
work. The principal religious idea is a kind of
ancestor worship. Images in the public square are
intended to represent the tribes’ dead chiefs and to
them offerings of fruit, food and pigs are made at
intervals to secure their good will and prevent them
doing injury. The natives also believe in a sacred
man who can make rain and wind, and cause disease
and death. There is also a kind of fetichism. Cer-
tain stones are credited with supernatural powers.
One in my possession, just an ordinary pebble of
coral rock, was supposed to protect the owner from
being killed by arrow or musket ball; others, when
placed among pigs’ food, make the porkers grow
fat. Still another when placed upon the tongue is
supposed to be conducive to eloquence. When a man
dies his spirit is believed to wander in the bush
until his relations perform his funeral ceremonies.
Then his spirit, driving before him the spirits of
pigs sacrificed at his grave, goes to the entrance of
the spirit world. At the gate stands a spirit called
Lesiv-siv, who examines the spirit of the new comer
to find if he has certain tattoo marks of a snake or a
lizard on his body. If so he is admit.-ed, but if no
marks are visible he has his spiritual head split
open and is sent back to wander in the bush.
* * * *
“Potbrook” : Kelly hated the Murphy boys
-as much as they hated Kelly, and that was saying
enough ; but they rubbed it all off the slate the day
Kelly’s dog called on them. They smoodged and
cajoled him until they got a grip on him, and the
rest is only surmise. Kelly was riding down the
main road about a mile from Murphy’s.
The old prad was extra-slow that day,
and when he pricked up his ears and
evinced signs of breaking into a canter
Kelly could not understand him. Before
he had time to look behind him the quad,
gave a wild snort and passed beyond con-
trol. Kelly threw a hurried glance to
the rear. About a hundred yards behind
was Kelly’s dog, a treacle tin on his tail,
and all the “books” in the world couldn’t
have stiffened him or the horse, and Kelly
knew it. The next furlong Kelly put in
cursing the Murphys. Then an extra
sprint on the dog’s part shortened his
odds, and Dan Murphy, ’watching from
the stable roof, laid his brother 6 to 4
that the dog would catch him before they
reached the break down the road. That
same break was just then giving Kelly
some concern. If the infernal dog could
only get the lead before they reached it,
he would, no doubt, get a pull on the
prad ; but if the dog didn’t—and again
he broke into terrible language, all of it
directed against the Murphys. Then the
break loomed up in front of them, with
Kelly a length in the lead. Whether the
prad was tiring, or he slowed down to
measure his stride, will never be known ;
but in the last chain the dog caught him,
and the field rose together. Kelly doesn’t
know how he did it, but he hung on, and
the dog dashed ahead in the next hundred yards. Kelly
then pulled the steeplechaser up and dismounted, and
led him home. He is still in that part, but he
doesn’t keep a dog, and the Murphys remain un-
popular.
» * * *
‘Tat”: The ideal sporting place in
Queensland is on Inkcrman Estate, near the mouth
of the Burdckin River. One cannot travel more
than a couple of miles without striking a lagoon
swarming with ducks, wild geese and less tempting
waterfowl. I have seen on tha bank of one of these
lagoons a battalion of whistling ducks, eight or
nine deep, enjoying a siesta. In the river itself
one can get barranmndi, bream, fiathead and mullet.
Flathead are so numerous on the sandy beaches
along the Burdekin delta that on; gets good sport
even with a sharpened picket. The only fly in the
ointment is the presence of crocodiles and sharks of
unusual daring. Have seen one of the latter hurl
himself after a fish with such speed that on missing
his grab he ran right up on to the sand. But to
the man with the correct rifle and the right nerve
they furnish sport, too. When that palls you can
get more thrills amongst the wild boars. W’allabies
are also plentiful if you want to punch something
that can’t hit back. But that’s poor game.
THOUGHT IT WAS A PHONOGRAPH.
“Shay, ole f'ter (hie), play ush a bit o' rag (hie) time!"
“S.T.S.”: How old “mad as a hatter”
may be I don’t know, but “The Vagabond” is quite
wrong (B. 20/11/’l3) in dating it from “Alice in
Wonderland” of merely half a century back. Lewis
Carroll’s game was to play with types already
familiar to everyone, and the very fact that his
amusing lunatics' were a March Hare and a Hatter
shows that “mad as c hatter” and “mad as a March
hare” ( i.e in the mating season) were household
words already. Would one accuse Carroll of invent-
ing the Cheshire cat’s grin, the lion and unicorn’s
fight, the Knave of Heart’s tart-stealing, or the fall
of Humpty Dumpty?
* * * *
‘Tick”: In his par. deprecating the idea
that bushmen have literary leanings, “Albion” (B.
27/11 /’l3) knocks out his own argument by liis
reference to country Schools of Arts. Will he make
his affidavit that even 10 per cent, of these institu-
tions have billiard rooms attached? “Albion’s”
knowledge of the subject is confined, evidently, to
goodly-sized inland towns, wherein billiards do
occasionally augment the funds of the School of
Arts, but I can name him a few dozen literary insti-
tutions where no towns exists at all, but which have
been centrally established by the scattered residents
of sparsely-populated districts. Further,. almost
every country schoolhouse has its library, from which
parents as well as children obtain books; also, cir-
culating libraries fire frequently run in connection
with country stores or post offices. In the tiny vil-
lage where for the time being I hustle for my daily
crust and nightly beer, there is a Literary Institute
wherein are stocked a few thousand volumes repre-
senting every author of note, and including scientific
works and treatises on almost every nameable sub-
ject ; also, we get leading periodicals and a regular
supply of books from the Sydney Free Public
Library. For 20 miles around, the district is liber-
ally catered for with every good class of literature.
And this is one instance only of several with which
I have been in touch in Various parts of the Ma
State.
“Marloo”: Something about Outback liter-
ary appetite? Try this. Arrived in a cow locality
a fortnight prior to the annual meeting of sub-
scribers to the School of Arts. The roll-up filled the
hall (30 x 20). When we got down to biz only 17
persons (including a committee of 12) were eligible
to vote. Others were unfinancial. By paying 3s.
that night you could have secured a quarter’s sub-
scription and admission to a concert and dance.
Furthermore, you were guaranteed two dances during
the quarter (light refreshments provided). The re-
sult was that 67 financial members departed, each
armed with a book from a library of 800 odd vol-
umes, and I came forth hon. see. of the institution.
At the two succeeding monthly “hops” most of the
67 members turned up. In the meantime only five
of the books had been returned or exchanged. With
the opening of the new quarter we encountered a
lock-out. The gents mostly refused to pay the 35.,
and sought to reduce the entrance fee to the dance
for non-members from Is. 6d. to Is. We made a
circumspect retreat, with 23 members. Understand
we got subsidy on subscriptions only. At the time
of the next annual meeting the membership num-
bered under a score, and the monthly dances had
lapsed. The job of collecting 62 volumes taken
out devolved on the secretary, of course, and after
a month’s strenuous canvassing I handed in 25
derelicts and my resignation.
“Gil Gunnia”: Tbe Miorli tribe, whose
habitat is around Boulia, in West Queensland, have
a med ; dne pit w here they get a peculiar black earth
.... , , „
which is used extensively for sickness, and does what
they call “big fellow heals.” This pit, situated on
the bank of the Diamantina, about 50 miles from
Boulia, seems to have a fairly big deposit of a
very heavy, friable black earth. It is rendered all
the more remarkable by the fact, that everywhere
around, as far as the eyes see, there is nothing but
sandy country. It is used externally as poultices,
and internally. The blacks bake themselves in it,
JUST HIS PLAYFUL WAY.
PRICE OF MEAT.—PROBABLE INCREASE.
—Daily paper headings.
THE MAN WITH THE MEAT: "Jump, sonny,
jump! ”
and also carry it in pouches round their necks. A
Binglii who showed it to me told me of great cures
effected. The soil is so heavy that it is certainly a
mineral substance, and I think it is probably radio-
active, from which it obtains its medicinal value. I
can vouch for one cure. An old gin crawled to the
pit suffering from a terrible skin disease on her feet
and legs. Having washed them, a mixture was made
of the earth, gumleaves and saliva, and applied to
the affected parts every day for three weeks. I saw
the same gin a month after, and she was walking
with scarcely a limp.
(Continued on page 24J
THE FIGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now this fantastic Christmas tale
Is just as true as Jonah’s whale;
For none has ever proved to me
That such a thing could never be.
’Twas Bill the Drifter homeward went
When star-set was the firmament;
And Bill had spent a pleasant eve
With friends whom he was loth to leave.
And as he dwelt on past delight
His eyes beheld a wondrous sight.
Within the narrow creek there lay
A man-o’-war in armor grey;
And cheek-by-jowl, and neclc-by-neck.
Five hundred sailors on the deck.
And every eye on Bill was set,
Before each eye a bayonet.
Then one stood forth and sternly said.
“Unless you stand, we’ll shoot you dead."
But Bill refused to stand his ground,
And swayed, and swayed, and swayed around.
Then came the merciless command:
“One volley, men, before you land.”
And out there poured a fusillade
Which very little impress made;
For Bill arose, and in his eye
The light that shines when heroes die.
He firmly gripped his trusty blade,
And met the foejnen unafraid ;
And slashed about on every side,
And reyelled in the" crimson tide.
Three of those bold marines were dead
When courage from their leader fled.
A sudden pause. “Back, back, my crew;
We’ve done as much as men can do.”
And Bill stood victor—sternly frowned,
Then wildly laughed, and sought the ground.
When Bill arose, the creek before
His humpy gurgled as of yore;
,But not upon its bosom lay
That warship in its armor grey.
Yet that ’twas not a dream I swear—
Three dead marines were lying there.
QUEENSLAND,
MEONA.


YOUR ADVANTAGES.
There are a number of distinct ADVANTAGES TO YOURSELF in buying a Beale Piano in preference to any other. Here are
some of them :
1. You make a Big Saving in Price, Quality for Quality.
You buy your Beale Piano direct from the factory, without paying profits to any middlemen or agents, and
without paying the 35 per cent. Customs duty.
2. You get a Better=toned Piano.
Beale Pianos have a most harmonious, mellow, delightful tone. They contain the only successful steel
tuning-system ever invented, and by means of this device the tuning-pins are held firmly for all time,
confining all sound to the sounding-board , which is the only proper construction. This invention makes the
piano more durable, because the iron frame alone bears all the tremendous strain (nearly 30 tons) of the two
hundred and sixteen tiglitly-stretclied steel strings. This construction cannot be had in any other pianos.
3. A Better=toned Piano because, also, of the Violin=like Sounding Board.
Only Beale Pianos contain sounding-boards constructed on the same principle as a violin-belly.. This
construction, and our secret sounding-board varnish, are responsible for that splendid tone which wins such
favor with singers especially. The Beale tone is sympathetic, sweet, mellow, sonorous and lasting. The
tone of Beale Pianos, beautiful at first, improves with use. This is the sure test of an artistically-
constructed piano. '
4. You get a Longer=lasting Piano.
Beale Pianos are made in the Australian climate, of timber seasoned in the Australian climate, so they will
withstand the Australian climate better than pianos which are made in cold, wet countries.
5. Your Beale Piano will have a Better Touch.
We supply a better “ action ” —one of the most expensive parts of the instrument —in Beale Pianos than you
find in any other pianos of similar price. We supply the recognised best action in the world in our 70-guinea
Beale Pianos, whereas you must pay not less than for an imported piano containing the same action-
system. It provides that perfect touch demanded by master-pianists.
6. You gain by the Unique Experience of probably the Greatest Piano Expert in the World.
Associated with the founder of this Company (Mr. O. C. Beale) is Mr. George D. Rose, for many years Technical
Director of Messrs. John Broadwood & Sons, London, now acting exclusively as our Technical Expert and
Factory Manager. Mr. Rose is the third generation in his family to devote a lifetime to high-grade piano
making. He has had a unique experience in all branches of the art in the best piano factories of England,
Germany, France and America, and is recognised in Europe, as probably the greatest expert in tone-
production in the world. He has invented epoch-making improvements in pianos. He was for over twelve
years President of the British Piano Makers’ Association.
7. You get a Written Guarantee from us —the MAKERS —Tor twenty=five years.
No other maker guarantees his pianos for such a lengthy period ten years is the usual thing. But we know
how Beale Pianos are constructed, and we know they will last longer than any others. In any case, if you
buy an imported piano you will find that the guarantee (if any) thereon will not be of much value to you, as
the maker is in Europe, twelve thousand miles distant from you ; whereas we are here, m Australia, with a 1
our interests in Australia, ready to support our guarantee on the spot.
8. Only Beale Pianos have quite Reliable Bass=strings. .
You know that in all pianos the strings (steel wires) in the bass portion are wound with copper or other wire
to make them heavier, and thus afford the necessary slow vibrations. In Beale Pianos these steel wires are
six-sided, instead of round, and thus afford a firm grip for the copper winding. Consequently no Beale Piano
ever develops buzzing noises caused by loose binding of the bass-strings. Other Pianos have roan steel wire m
the bass, affording no secure grip for the copper. Six-sided steel wire costs more than twice as much as the round.
9.
You get a Piano which is built only of Tested Parts. , A . , .
Every part—every detail—of every Beale Piano is tested and scrupulously examined before it is embodied m
the instrument. The slightest flaw in material or workmanship and the part is entirely rejected.
10 Your Beale Piano is Guaranteed Against Damage in Transit.
We take the entire risk of damage in delivery of the Beale Piano right up to your door : you take no risk,
If it should be damaged by any mischance, we make it good, or supply another piano of equal quality.
1 In case of Damage while in use, your Beale Piano is Easily Repaired. .
We are the makers of the Beale Pianos, and our factory is here m Australia. Therefore, if any part of your
Beale Piano-should get damaged through accident or carelessness we can always supply new parts at low cost,
and the piano is restored as good as new. How could you obtain new parts for a foreign piano . The agents
do not carry stocks of spare parts, and they have no factory facilities for making them, either. We can make
or renew any part of any Beale Piano at any time.
If you make a careful study of such advantages as other firms offer you, and compare them with the foregoing, you are sure
to come to the conclusion that you will be getting most benefit by obtaining a Beale Piano. Study what we have said above
—think it all over—and you will say that it is just simple common-sense reasoning.
BEALE CO. LTD.,
MAKERS OF BEALE PIANOS.
IS'RuSDLfsTTDEIAIDrI A M " k Fo, ' S ’' 5 HaT StfpERTH. Wa“ ELB ° U RN &
90-92 QUEEN It!, opo Pike Bros.', oor ne» and ONLY Addresa In BRISBANE.
Branch Offices at Newcastle, Bathurst, Orange, Wagga and Broken Hill, N.S.W.,
Maryborough, Rockhampton, Mackay and Townsville, Queensland; Kalgoorlie, W.A.
wpttt? FDR CATALOGUE 2=: YEARS’ GUARANTEE.
TR WEI I ERS EVERYWHERE. WRITE TOR LAiAmjuuL. i
Head Office and Factories - - TRAFALGAR ST., ANNANDALE, SYDNEY.
CASH or EASY TERMS. REPAIRS and TUNING. Save Importers 1 Profits by Buying Direct from the Manufacturers.


SKIN DISEASES,
Including Eczema, Pimples, Hashes, Boils, Chilblains,
Ringworm, Shingles, Ulcers, Old Sores, have their
remedy in Rexona, the Rapid Ilealer. Sold in trian-
gular pots at Is. 6d. and 3s. Obtainable everywhere.*
VIOLENT PAINS AND PURGING.
“I recommend Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea
Remedy as being the most satisfactory medicine for
colic, diarrhoea or dysentery,” writes Mr. Cecil C.
Hooper, storekeeper, Wakefield, N.Z. “At times I am
seized with violent pains and purging, and have
tried several so-called cures, but find nothing equal to
Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy.”*
NABOB BOOT PASTE
Economical, Brilliant, Waterproof, Easily Applied.
Manufactured by LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney. l 2
We have used this space tor the last 12 months
making announcements of interest to those interested
in the march of progress. That was business. W'e
suspend the use of it in the customary way on this
occasion in order to offer you not information about
the mechanical possibilities of the future but to
convey our best wishes for a Merry Christmas and a
Happy New Year. Phillips Ormonde & Co., engineers,
patent and trade mark attorneys, 17 Queen Street
(Lombard Buildings), Melbourne.*
DRINKING WITH MEALS C AUSES
INDIGESTION.
“You should never drink with meals if you
are troubled with indigestion,” I was told at
a time when I could hardly eat a meal with-
out suffering afterwards. I followed the
advice rigidly, and, although I was somewhat
relieved, still suffered a good deal. I tried
several patent medicines, but without any
beneficial effect until a medical friend recom-
mended taking about half a teaspoonful ot
ordinary bisurated magnesia in half a cup-
ful of warm water after each meal and at
bedtime. The result was wonderful. The
bisurated magnesia entirely counteracted the
acidity in the stomach, which causes dyspep-
sia ; relief came almost immediately and
I am now able to eat, drink and enjoy mv
meals without bad effects. Drinking with
my meals does not worry me now. In case
any readers would like to try this excellent
remedy, which I understand relieves all
kinds of indigestion just as effectually as it
did mine, I may add that it is obtainable
from any chemist, but I strongly advise
anyone trying it to make perfectly sure they
get the bisurated magnesia, other forms not
being suitable for this purpose.—E.T.G.
“Overseer” : Re “Gil Gunnia's” par. about
the poisoning of fish by the Mitakoodi blacks in
Queensland (B. 21/8/’l3). This method of catch-
ing a breakfast is in common use amongst the
Fijian natives. At low tide, when the reef is
above water, the women get to work in the numer-
ous lagoons where the fish have been left captive.
They use hand nets in the shallow places, but
where that is impracticable they use their anesthe-
tic. The pounded leaves of a native vine are em-
ployed for the purpose. The vine turns the water
a reddish color, and the narcotic effect wears off
the fish ih a few minutes. Unlike the goods used
by Black Brother of Queensland, the Fijian decoc-
tion does not emit any smell. The women do
most, if not all, of the fishing in these tropic isles,
the men having given up work since the advent of
the missionary.
“Felix Holt”: These hot days (it’s 110°)
remind me of my first experience of an Australian
summer. It was in 1877, and I was travelling with
my then boss along the road to Gundagai. About
three o’clock we passed a man with a flock of sheep.
He was rounding them up himself, and appeared
to have no dog. “Good-day, shepherd,” said the
boss. “Good-dav,” replied the old fellow, as he
wiped his streaming countenance with a red “bundle”
handkerchief. “But you’re making a mistake,” he
explained. “I’m the dog. There’s the blanky shep-
herd,” Pointing to his dog, which lay under the
shade of a bush with its tongue lolling out of its
mouth.
“Dob Wilkins” : Bill was driving a bullock-
team into Wagga, and after crossing the river bridge
he pulled up at the first pub for a reviver. The
team, having stopped, was not ' disposed to start
again. Bill walloped and swore, but it was no go.
He thought hard while he had another “taste.” Then
he strode up to the leaders. “There, yer vermilion
cows,” he shouted, shaking a dirty waybill in their
faces, “look fer yerselves, an’ yer’ll see yer only
carryin’ two ton. Get ehrp, yer heliotrope blighters.”
Whereat the cattle all pulled together, and the
waggon creaked on its dusty way.
“Kodak” : I only know the headliners of
the bird world, and my ignorance of the others and
their habits is immense. But I want to record a
curious instance of bird-daring that I discovered
last week in a poet’s garden, at Roseville, Sydney.
Whilst pruning an overgrown rose tree, the poet
came upon a small nest about the size of an egg-
cup, containing two or three half-fledged infants.
Originally the nest must have been a nicely hidden
private residence; but by the time the poet had
finished sub-editing the tree, it was about as conspicuous
as a bed would be in the middle of Pitt-street. In-
stead of abandoning the family in disgust, as might
have been expected, the married couple bravely stuck
to their blinking encumbrances and fed them daily
in full view of all comers. We were all collected
round the bush when the pair arrived home from
the Old Worm and Moth, and they kicked up a
twittering fuss until we all retired to a distance of
five yards or so, when one of the heads of the
family fluttered to the nest, sat on the family and
stared at us thoughtfully. Now let no bird-lover
ask me what sort of bird it was. All I know is
that it was small and quite unlike a hen or an emu.
* * * *
“Condamine”: I’ve been patting simple
questions on Australian geography to advanced
school children, and I’m amazed at the amount of
information they haven’t got. Any one of them can
tell me how long the Mississippi and the Amazon
are, but the longest Australian stream is a blank to
them. And it’s no slouch, either. Start near War-
wick (Q.) with the Condamine, and follow it as the
Culgoa, the Balonne, the Darling, and finally the
Murray, and you have a tidy streak; but I’ll bet
that not one kid in 50 can tell you of it.
THE ROLLING DEEP.
“Mns' be crook whisky below! Only had a
few, an' now look how she ’eaves!”
“A.Li.S.”: Andrew Binghi had been
educated at the mission station, where he had been
taught the error of boastfulness and the beauty of
meekness. Later on Bill Stiggs accused Andrew of
stealing fowls, and Binghi appeared in due course
before the J.P. When asked if he was guilty or
not guilty, Andrew remembered his early training
and said: “Nuh fear! Mine tinkit doan’ want no
crerrit for what dis fellah doan’ do!”
The politeness of these politicians! In
the Senate the other night:—
Senator Clemons: It was suddenly discovered that
various Ministers [Fisher Govt.] were issuing in-
structions practically to the effect that no non-
unionist was to be employed in the Public Service.
Senator McGregor: No The hon. senator knows
better. That is a vermilion-tinted prevarication.
And, although Clemons knew exactly what he had
been called, the Standing Orders saw nothing wrong
about it.
A FASH/ON LEADER.
MRS. SUDDS : “Look at that
Mrs. Mangles done up
as proud as a peacock,
an’ ’er only tailin' in washin’
the same as any of us.”
MRS. SPUDS (impressively):
“Yes, indeed, mum; but
’er man’s work in' in a
marine store now, an' she
gets the pick of all the
costooms.”
“A. Field”: “J.J.C.” (B. 27/11/T3) is
wrong; our good Australian brother the platypus is
a native of the Barron River district of North Queens-
land, and is also to be found in the creeks and rivers
as far south as the Johnstone. Further down the
map than that I cannot vouch for.
“Snell” : Devlin’s hut had taken fire. As
Devlin had returned home two hours earlier, carry-
ing a grievous burden of brewer’s small goods, he
was in some danger of being roasted whole; but a
despondent “beat,” passing in that vicinity, ventured
in amongst the smoke and flame, and finding Devlin
sprawling upon a bunk, full as a fresh keg, took him
by the heels and towed him into the glorious moon-
light, more from an instinctive desire to save the
beer than to do Devlin a kind action. When Devlin
returned to a somewhat rational frame of mind, he
was lying near the ashes of his hut, wearing nothing
but a shirt. Devlin had a
distinct recollection of
going to bunk in his
clothes, and as. soon as he
could provide himself with
decent covering he
charged about Pingoot, in-
quiring for the “cow what
saved my life.” Eventu-
ally he came upon a gin-
ger waif wearing his
clothes and boots, and
within half an hour the
party in illegal possession
of Devlin's garments was
lodged in Pingoot lockup
charged with entering and
stealing. At his trial all
the hero could plead was.
“Lor’ lumme! wasn’t a
bloke t’ get nothin’ fer
savin’ his life?” The sym-
pathetic magistrate who
sentenced accused said:
“Next time you find Dev-
lin in a burning hut you
had better leave him
there.” “No,” said the
prisoner regretfully. “Where I made the mistake,
ver Worship, was in not chuckin’ him back after I'd
finished with him.”
“N. or M.”: The man who lays poison
for rabbits on his run has had many clods thrown
at him of late, and Tassy’s Lower House turned a
thoughtful eye on the matter the other day. Not
only is the native fauna being ruthlessly sacrificed,
but also, if the story is to be believed, the fish in
some rivers are being afflicted through poisoned or
poison-dusted grasshoppers which fall into the water.
I don’t answer for the truth of the last, though it
is a current belief; but the magpies, ringtails, etc.,
lying dead along a poison furrow answer the other
part of the question. At the same time if the
farmer is not to poison his rabbits, Heaven knows
how he is to get rid of the nest. The obvious
remedy for rabbits as for a lot of other ills is
closer settlement. But, meantime—well, it is the
meantime that is worrying us.
“Machete” : “Pick” is evidently in need of
re-pointing when he asserts (B. 4/12/’l3) that the
platypus does not suckle its young, but disgorges
digested food as provender for them. The queer
beast, like his cousin, the echidna, or “porcupine,”
is a true mammal, though zoologists put them in a
class by themselves, the monotremes. Both lay eggs
and suckle the family until the latter can forage for
itself. Plat, lays several eggs in a nest, while
“porky” carries round one only, in a little pouch
which develops for the occasion. The milk is
squeezed from the mammary glands by special
muscles, as in the marsupials, and the little Tins
mop it off the gland surfaces as it comes along. The
method of feeding the kids imagined by “Pick” is
only possible among certain species of birds which
are fitted with apparatus for the purpose.
“L.N.” : The Papuans west of Yule Island
are as reticent about their secret ceremonies as any
society in our civilisation. Weird performances are
enacted in the mysterious, gloomy dubus—immense
structures where the female may enter only under
penalty of death. When boys are approaching
puberty they are taken to their dubu and kept in it
for a long period, and they would be eternally dis-
graced jf they were even seen by a woman during
this period. If it was imperative for one to leave
the dubu —say in case of illness or fire —he would
so swathe himself in leaf garments as to be abso-
lutely invisible. I was at Motu-Motu once when
the village was en fete on account of several
youths who had completed their probation.
They were led out in front of the dubu,
glistening with oil, wearing high, conical hats,
and such native ornaments as each possessed.
They could scarcely stand, having chewed
betelnut till they were silly. Their relatives brought
loads of food to feast the village. Bananas, yams,
sugarcane, taro and such were there in tons. Many
pigs were a-cooking beneath piles of leaves on
heated stones. Eligible girls cavorted in their friski-
est mood and scantiest ramies, looking unutterable
ecstasies in anticipation of a honeymoon in the
cocognut grove. But we’d better not intrude on
them there.
"S.H.G.”: Promise the man outback a
decent funeral and he will die happy. I was trying
to persuade a pub-keeper outside Temora (N.S.W.)
who has made his pile to chuck the dust and heat an !
sweat and come to Sydney. “No good t’ me,” he
said. “I dunno anyone in Sydney, an’ if I was to
die there no one would come to my funeral. But if
I was to die out here, everyone in the district would
be at it.”
“Gouger": What would be an unspeak-
able boon on many a dry track down south is pro-
vided by the flanges of an enormous fig tree growing
on Mt. Hartley (N.Q.). The flanges have become so
twisted and intergrown as to form a huge tub, 3ft.
wide and as many deep. On the slightest shower the
drops from the leaves fill the natural reservoir, and tin-
scratchers, bandicoots and such pests quench their
thirst in the liquid for weeks afterwards. But I
suppose if the tub was down south you blokes would
growl because it wasn’t full of beer.
* * * *
“A. Field”: Can dingoes climb? “Pick”
says they can’t. Well, then, the dingo of these parts
(Barron River, N.Q.) must be of a totally different
breed to any he has experienced. Twenty yards
away from my hut I have a horse yard, two-railed,
top rail 6ft. from ground ; and I have seen a dingo
clambering on top, a yard away from the post, and
he was a lame one at that. In proof, I will forward
either yard or dingo to “Pick” on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope. P.S.—lf dingo required, enclose
3d. in stamps for disinfectant.
THE WAY OF ESCAPE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
N.S.W
The tree-insect sizzled awhile on his bough,
He sizzled and crackled and whirred.
Oh, it was a heated and maddening row,
And more than a trifle absurd.
He screamed with his friends like an outrush of
steam,
Till the bush was a-boil with the racket;
Then he wearied and died,
And his spirit untied
The back part of his blouse—or his jacket.
From that celluloid shape
Lo ! it made its escape
Through the vent in the back of the jacket.
The womenfolk chatter all day in the home,
And never get off a new wheeze;
The men hear them crying, wherever they go:
“We want you to do us up, please!”
Their clothes are all built on the same silly plan,
With the buttons put where they can’t reach ’em.
But they never desert
Through the back of the shirt—
A good trick that the insect might teach ’em.
Would you join hook and eye,
If you thought she might fly ?
If you like —! Bear in mind, she can’t reach ’em!
SILENCE.
“Eddyson” : Herbert Sell succumbed to a
great temptation. As it was Sell’s invariable pr ac
tice to to small temptations, what chance
had he aganisF a* great one? Let us think of that
when judging him. Herbert went through Reekie's
fried fish hell on the night of the 23rd, and dis
covered a large, plump, nude turkey suspended bv
the heels in the back verandah. The bird was there
holding out shameless allurement to a susceptible
stranger; a small flour bag was there, and on the
window-sill there was a stout cord. Here were all
the means to do ill deeds. Herbert Sell is prompt
in wickedness ; in pursuit of good works you couldn’t
hit him off the mark with a battering ram. He cut
down the turkey, he put it in the bag, he tied the
bag with the cord, he hung the bag over Reekie’s
back fence, and he rejoined the convivial party gnaw-
ing holes in slim flounders in Reekie's front room
Herbert had determined not to remain to supper
He begged to be excused ; he had to go and have his
appendix removed. Would everybody excuse him?
Herbert walked out at the front door, strolled round
the square, sauntered up the back lane, unhitched
the bag of decollete Christmas feed, and started for
the home of his beloved. He walked warily, like
those who go in darkness. When approaching the
exit from the right-of-way Mr. Sell heard a sharp
voice back in the gloom. The voice said “Hi!”
Only that. If you have ever stolen down a dark lane
with a sack of dead meat purloined from a treacher-
ous Dago, and a voice from out the black past has
snapped “Hi!” at you, you will understand the
vitalising effect of “Hi!” Herbert Sell moved. He
received an involuntary start, and projected himself
across the open road with the celerity of a sensitive
man who expects presently to have a set of teeth
inserted where teeth are least desirable, and to feel
a large, powerful dog of the sect of the Great Dane
pulling handfuls of material out of the back of his
trousers. It is not wise to tear across a well-lit
highway, carrying a bag, but Sell had his reasons.
He heard another voice cry “Hi!” as he precipitated
himself into another segment of the right-of-wav.
Is it necessary to remind you that Herbert Sell was
running some, as we say in Pottsville, Penn., U.S.A.?
Looking back, the unhappy young man saw the shine
on helmets bobbing in the night. To resume: 11.
Sell ran 300yds. in lsec. over the record, threw
himself through a 3-inch gap in a paling fence, and
was about to hide in Mrs. Smith’s wash-house when
Mrs. Smith herself came forth, and screamed at him.
Herbert did not wait to hear from Mr. Smith. He
went through the Smith villa, and came out in
Wickin-street, still running. In Wickin-street a voice
yelled “Hi!” and Herbert took round the next cor-
ner, and yearned for dim distance, hitting the earth
only once in every four yards. No sprinter can do
justice to himself over a long distance carrying a
three-stone turkey, and Herbert clung to that de-
funct gallinaceous biped with the determination of a
criminal knowing what was due to himself. He went
through three suburbs, invaded five private houses,
burst into the privacy of a prayer meeting, sneaked
in and out of sundry pubs, and everywhere he went
shrill, unfeeling voices cried “Hi!” In the course
of that great struggle for turkey, Herbert Sell
learned that a roan may safely carry a bag of fat
provisions in the street if he is content to walk, but
the moment he runs with it he invites vulgar sus-
picion and the enmity of men. Mr. Sell finally
evaded pursuers by hiding for two hours in a barrel
in a butcher’s stable, and when he reached the home
of his beloved he was all out. He went in by the
back way, and left the bag in the hands of the
ginger domestic. “It’s for Miss Jess,” he said. “A
present from me. Tell her it is for the Christmas
dinner, and I will come to help the family eat it.”
Herbert called at the front door of the home of his
beloved on Christmas Day. The reception he got
was not encouraging. In fact, Miss Jess’s father
gave him 10 seconds to reach the street, offering to
kick him with due severity if he seemed to need ex-
ternal impulse. Herbert’s unpopularity with the
family could not be overlooked. Jess’s large brother
came out while the poor young man was still in a
state of great mental perplexity, and hit him in the
chin. It was understood the engagement was broken
off. Herbert learned the reason some months later.
M hen the bag was opened it was found to contain
the carcase of a portly terrier. Evidently Reekie
had been advised in some way of Herbert’s doings
with his turkey, and —well, he had intended to kill
that terrier, anyway.


LW/3Y3
rIPST
i
&
h
IS
\ >
'i
x
... sear
I
Wfl
ftsfe
r A
mil
E
fl
m
3
I
-
„sS
i
0M
M®
sflSl&s***
3 KS .
If
N
■
■■m
■A
A
I v ...
* ;-• -• j 5,
FOP
/3HD
ffi
r


For the one you wish to please most
A Kodak or Brownie for New Year
Brother, Sister, Uncle, Aunt, Cousin or Friend will appreciate a
gift that means pleasure all the year—the pleasure of taking pictures,
\ a nd having a picture story of great personal interest.
Kodaks and Brownies are so simple to understand and operate
that there is nothing the boy or girl of nine or ten could not do,
especially as the whole of the processes can be performed in day-
light. There’s no need for a dark room.
Come in and let us talk Kodak with you. Let us show you how beautifully made these cameras
are. how simple they are. how easy it is to make rattling good pictures at the first attempt,
and how pleasing, instructive and fascinating Kodak Photography is.
M-B
iVrfZ
Four Splendid Gift Kodaks.
A KODAK FOR 30/-
Vest-pocket Kodak, the newest and
smallest of the Kodaks, takes pic-
tures 24 x Is inches; fits the waist-
coat pocket. “Always with you,
never in the way.” 30/-
A KODAK FOR 50/-
No. la Folding Pocket Kodak, takes
pictures 44 x inches; springs
open in a second, ready for use
without adjustment of any kind; a
very suitable Kodak for a lady’s
use. Only 50/-
A KODAK FOR £3/12/0.
No. 3 Folding Pocket Kodak, takes
pictures 4J x 3J inches, the popu-
lar “quarter-plate” size, superior
lens and shutter, a handsome
Kodak, covered with Seal-grain
Leather. Price, £3/12/6.
A KODAK FOR £5/2/6.
No. 3a Folding Pocket Kodak, takes
pictures 5* x 3J inches (postcard
size), excellent rapid rectilineal
lens, automatic focussing lock, ris-
ing front, fitted with Kodak Auto-
matic Shutter, £5/2/6.
Remember also that for Kodak and Brownie Happy Moments Pictures we are offering
value of £5OO- The first prize is £lOO, and 28 are reserved exclusively for Beginners.
Booklet, which is free, tells intending competitors the whole story. Ask your nearest
116 prizes to the total
The “Happy Moments”
Kodak dealer for a copy.
KODAK
(Australasia)
LTD.
Incorporating Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd.
SYDNEY! 379 George Street.
MELBOURNE: “ The Block.” 284
ADELAIDE: 37 Randle Street.
BRISBANE : 78-80 Queen Street.
TOOWOOMBA s Ruthven Street.
TOWNSVILLE: Flinaers Street.
ROCKHAMPTON : East Street.
BROKEN HILL: 346 Argent Street.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. : 3 Lome Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: 6 Mercer Street
Collins Street.
“A Female of the Species”.; After 18
months spent in British Columbia, 1 feel
qualified to say that the Australian who goes
to Canada expecting to see better than he
can find at home will receive a horrible
shock. Australia hears a lot about Canada s
immigration methods. But as almost every
building has a “No Men Wanted,” or simply
a “No Men” notice posted over it, and as
there is practically no small farming carried
on within at least 30 miles of Vancouver
(almost the whole butter supply for B.C.
comes from Maoriland, and is 40 cents per
lb.), the agriculturally-inclined immigrant
is not likely to burst with an excess of hap-
piness. I knew two educated, willing, able-
bodied Englishmen in Victoria (Vancouver
Island), who had been beguiled by Canada’s
alluring advertisements to “Come west and
wear diamonds.” Alter 10 months of weari-
ness, during part of which they slept in
parks and envied the well-fed swans, they
got work carrying mortar for a new build
ing and had to toil from 7 a.m. till 6 at
night six days a week (no Saturday half-
holiday there). For this they got! five
dollars a week! One of these men had been
a member of the London Stock Exchange
(he had gone smash) ; and although lumping
mortar was plain Hades to him, yet he was
afraid to leave because he well knew the
awful scarcity of payable jobs —and the
long, long waits between drinks. - Hundreds
of disappointed Britishers could be per-
suaded to come to Australia (which would
seem like Heaven to them after bleak and
dreary 8.C.) if the Commonwealth only
had a decent Immigration Office on the other
side. I stumbled across what we have in
the way of an office one day. It was tucked
up in a dingy side-street, and in the win-
dow was a small card, about the size of a
“Mangling done here” notice, which con-
veyed the information that this was the
official headquarters of the Commonwealth
of Australia. It looked like a home
for indigent piano-tuners! What we want
is a live immigration depot on Main-street,
with good photographs in the window and a
periodic display of picture films showing
the agricultural advantages of this country,
and an explanation of the facilities which
are offered to intending immigrants. Canada
is all right for the moneyed tourist, hut for
the ungilded immigrant it is Sheol—a Sheol
of snow, and shivering, and wild cursing,
and hope deferred.
“O’Phimerty” : I propose that a course of
Roman History be prescribed for all the
schools in Australia. There needn t be rnuch
of it. Just enough to show how like to Aus-
tralia Rome was in the fifth century. To
the north was a country swarming with
alien hordes, unable to find elbow room in
their own territories. At home was a people
fancying itself immune from northern at-
tack. “The Roman world,” writes Gwatkm,
of Cambridge, “was too well pleased with
itself and too contemptuous of barbarian
migrations to notice the first stirrings of the
whirlwind from the north.’ When the
whirlwind broke in the sixth century Rome
and all its western territories fell as a spoil
to the fierce northerners, who did their work
so savagely that the terrified Romans named
their leader the Scourge of God. lhe
American professor, Myers, puts the case
clearly: “All enthusiasm for the military
life and the military virtues had been lost.”
And Gibbon: “The vigor of the military
government was relaxed, and the Roman
world was overwhelmed by a deluge of bar-
barians.” History is trying hard to teach
us a few things; but it is mostly drowned
by the voice of two politicians calling one
another swine.
From a book-taster in London :
Two more books about King Edward VII. are
just out here. One is by Lord Suffield, the father-in-law
of one-time Governor Carrington, of Mt. Rennie and
thereabouts; the other by Edward Legge, a member
of a family of court flunkeys. Suffield, now 83,
started his connection with royalty in boyhood. He
lived in Norfolk ; and when the estate adjoining his
—-Sandringham—was acquired by the Prince of Wales
in 1801, they became intimate friends and neigh-
bors. lie accompanied the Prince on a tour through
India, in which Baron Bob Carrington and Charlie
Beresford also took part. Suffield is discreet in his
stories about Edward, telling only those which
illustrate the “tact and geniality” of the late mon-
arch. He makes up for this reticence by showing
the absurdities and indiscretions of the Shah of
Persia and other foreign potentates who visited
London from time to time. Legge’s book is his
second on the (Subject. He is not quite so discreet
as Suffield. For instance, this about Queen Alexan-
dra: “It is conceivable that she has had more to
put up with since her beloved Consort s untimely
death than during his life.” It is fairly well known
that Queen Alexandra and her daughter-in-law, Queen
Mary, have never been on very cordial terms; for
Alexandra was deeply pained and shocked at the
rapidity with which the volatile Princess Mary
transferred her affections from the recently-deceased
Clarence to his brother, York, the new heir apparent
to the throne. In regard to that still unsolved mys-
tery, the stealing of the Crown Jewels from Dublin
Castle, Legge tells us that Edward was furious when
the news reached him. He had a most stormy inter-
view with Lord Aberdeen, the Irish Vl <-eroy, at
whom he “thundered out his wrath.’ Legge hints that
he could spot the thief, and the reason, he says
why there has been no prosecution is that tne
evidence would have a direct bearing upon the
reputation of persons not m any way implicated in
the robbery of the jewels’—an observation that will
only add to the mystery.
The late A. W. Craven-r—M.L.A. for
Benambra (Vic.) for 24 years, and Chair-
man of Committees for nine—held his seat
almost entirely on his personal popularity.
It was while he was working at his job as
land and mining surveyor in the vast
Benambra district that he astonished him-
self, and everybody else, by first contesting
the seat against Billson. He was a fresh-
faced, school-boyish youngster, genial and
good-natured, and from the first day of his
election was always prepared to act as a
constituent’s city agent—not with an eye
to a vote, but simply because he hadn't the
heart to be disobliging. However, he got his
reward in many walk-overs —a great saving
of expense for such a constituency. He was
never regarded seriously in politics; but
professionally he had a fine reputation.
Also, he had a mania for working on featur-
day afternoons and Sundays and at night-
time fixing up correspondence, and devising
svstems for filing and pigeon-holing stuff
which ought to have been dumped into the
w.p.b. After he had passed 40 he went to
the Working Men’s College to learn short-
hand, and obtained a mild proficiency at it.
In the Great Beyond he’ll be a handy man
altogether —a superfine surveyor, a photo-
graplier in. the top class of the amateurs, a
lair shorthander, and the owner of a vast
mass of precedents, all nicely indexed, as
to the conduct of angels’ debates.
“Chasuble”: The cable tells us of the
death of Oreglia, the last of the Cardinals
appointed by Pius IX. Oreglia was the
most implacable of the “Irreconcilables.
Not then red-lmtted, he was Lisbon Nuncio
in 187 U, when Victor Emmanuel took Rome.
Oreglia was so bitter that, at the .instance
of Queen Pia, Victor Emmanuel’s daughter,
he was recalled from Portugal. The next
event in which he figured was the
election of Pope, 1878. Oreglia would have
got it but for the Portuguese King. Simi-
larly the Austrian Emperor baulked Pam-
pulla in 1903. Oreglia was almost ferocious
in his antagonism to Leo in 1878, and is
probably the last Cardinal to stub-
bornly insist on the Temporal power of the
Popes. They had more or less of that power
for a thousand years. The Italian Parlia-
ment in 1871 voted £120,000 sterling annu-
ally to the Vatican, as a sort of solace; but
Pius IX., Leo XIII. and Pius X. have
sternly refused to touch the money, and
maintain their dignity on Peter’s Pence,
which tot up to about £250,000 a year.
One very useful measure, brought in by
the Watt Government and hung up by the
fantastic politics of the period, was the
Opticians’ Bill, which had passed its second
reading. It aimed chiefly at the rascally
humbugs who prey upon the housewives of
the suburbs and the country, and inci-
dentally spoil gallons of eyes which they pre-
tend to relieve. The Vic. Opticians’ Associa-
tion chortled when the Bill was first men-
tioned ; but at the possibility of a clause
demanding that all opticians, whether re-
putable members of the Association or not,
must pass an exam., many members looped
askance —which led an eye specialist to
declare that, if it came to a test, not 25 per
cent, of practising “opticians” could pass an
examination of a fair English or American
standard.
From an old Maoriland gallery-liand :
Maoriland’s Parliament is the most serious in Aus-
tralasia. The House of Reps, prides itself that it is a
miniature House of Commons, and laboriously acts
the part. Undignified language is sternly suppressed,
and any member who applied such epithets to another
as “body,snatcber,” “condemned mongrel,” and “dirty
rat” would be warned off the precincts for life, and
the Prirtie Minister would move the adjournment
while eau-de-Cologne was sprinkled by the Usher of
the Moral Code. There was an unlucky contretemps
the other night when a goaded member described
another hon. gentleman’s remarks as a “lot of non-
sense.” The House was in Committee, and the
Chairman was staggered, the more so because he
took the insult as referring to himself. He de-
manded an apology. None being forthcoming, he sent
for the Speaker, in a silence like that which descends
on an infant class when Miss Pupil Teacher sends for
the headmaster to taw Willie. The Speaker rustled
to the chair, the Mace was reverently laid on the
table, the offender was formally arraigned and called
upon to plead. He pleaded not guilty, urging that
when he used the words, “a lot of nonsense,” he did
so as an aside, and they were in no way directed at
the Chairman. Evidence was given for and against
this plea; the Prime Minister, the Minister of Cus-
toms, Marine, Machinery Inspection, Advertising,
Printing and Stationery, Legislative, State Fire In-
surance, Life and Accident Insurance, Electoral,
National Provident Fund. Friendly Societies and Pen-
sions Department, also the. Leader of the Opposition
and 16 others, gravely debated the possibility of a
I misunderstanding; and the Speaker gave judgment,
lie “thought the hon. member was to blame, but as
the honorable gentleman assures me on his word of
honor that the words were not addressed to the
Chairman, I must rule that they did not afiect the
Chairman, and therefore there was no disrespect to
the Chair.” 15ut it was a d —d narrow squeak l
George Cann hasn’t the political luck of
his brother, the N.S.W. Labor Treasurer.
Twenty-two years ago J. 11. Gann was put
in the Broken llill seat as representative of
the handful of local miners; he happened to
be president of the local branch-union at
the time, lie still sits for Broken Hill, has
never had a serious contest, generally
has been unopnosed. Brother George, on
the other hand, though by no means the
green politician that the other was when
he was first elected, had one term in the
House of lieps., was then defeated by a mere
fistful of votes, and now lias failed to win
ex-Spcaker Willis’s seat for Labor.
The S. M. Herald, in its remarks about
the various political candidates, published be-
fore the elections, told the yarn of Pat
McGarry’s association with Murrumbidgee
upside down. As a matter of fact,
McGarry had been selected as the
Labor banner-carrier at Goulburn; but
news having reached P.L.L. headquarters
that there \yas a prospect of win-
ning the seat with a strong candidate, a top-
notcher was sent down to do the winning, and
rough-and-ready McGarry was consoled by a
chance of fighting a hopeless contest at Mur-
rumbidgee. The carefully-selected champion
went down solidly in the good-chance elector-
ate; and the energetic McGarry came back
triumphant from his allegedly hopeless con-
stituency.
From a Westralian Laborite who is get-
ting tired: —
Despite Premier Jack Scaddan’s three-year-old
boastful promise that he would down all monopo-
lists, Westralian timber combines still laugh at law
and equity. The cos. which supply fuel to the Kal*
goorlie mines and those dealing with the jarrah and
karri forests in the South-West, hold licenses to cut
timber over certain areas and construct tram-lines. In
addition, the Sou’-West people have agreed to re-
plant part of the denuded areas. These are the main
features of the agreements so far as they are known
to the public. In effect, the cos. spend their time
in a greedy evasion of their responsibilities. They
run the general stores along the tram-lines and’
charge such extortionate prices that Justice Burnside
the other day said in an Arbitration case that it lie
had his way he would sweep them off the eartli;
and he referrred to their “pawnbrokers rates.
Anyone is, of course, at liberty to open a shop,.but
the invader is soon crushed out, as the co. carries its
competitors’ goods and decides what they shall pay
for freight. So if the cos. pay fair rates for labor,
as thev say thev do, the money is hooked back in
the stores. It 'is doubtful, moreover, if the jarrah
and karri cos. have replanted an acre of land, lhe
firewood combine claims that it actually
only a few men. An applicant for toil, if he be
wanted, is told that he can chop away if he likes,
and that his wood will be bought from him. Thus
all liability for accidents is evaded. The fuel co. is
usually composed of only a few shareholders, and
each receives his whack of profits by way of salaiv
for “service rendered” ; so the State gets no divi-
dend taxes. Scaddan is well aware of all this. Most
likely he knows a lot more. Before he became
Premier he used to frequently denounce the iniqui-
ties, and promise what he would do. He has been
nearly three years in office, and up to this hour has
done nothing that the naked eye can see. Surely
the time is nearlv ripe Even a Labor Government
can’t expect us to live for ever on promissory notes.


%
J
m
Uk
■ *
■M
mm
DUO
1!
wrttS'^V
• I
I
SSSS
nsA I
Cl
m \ v:,r-r ■
; ;<■ &y&*/ &
.
f
W\ ■ «£"»
v V >
H
mm
S&ifits?
#
I
0 n
* -
«n
; :TS
:
i
mmmm
s/
“m
r /
J ■ /X
■
• C ?';.:
is
i
...
;--f -' s'*"
?P
% '.,<', o-
p ,- a .»• J-
I j\ *
* ...
-V:>{--' *; ■:
■ *?•
ligfe.'
Eg* f.l
' .-• r"
1
< ' ' '
Bfe
r
iC:il
wg@t
mm
0
■
.
Wat#.
mm
“Old
Highland
Malt”
TH E man who knows always
takes Thorne’s, for it is a
typical Scotch —a fine Old
Highland Malt carefully blended,
and patiently aged and matured at
Glenl ivet—the traditional home ol
the best Scotch Whisky.
Thorne’s is of unvarying quality,
and has a mellow maturity, rich
flavor and purity that pleases the
connoisseur.
During 80 years Thorne’s has
achieved an unapproachable popu-
larity which every bottle strengthens
and enhances.
For toasting- friends and guests
Thorne’s O.H.M.
WHisßy is
Incomparable.


JEWELLERY
25/
SOI-
Lady’s Solid Silver Hunting
Keyless Lever WATCH, J-
plate, full jewelled, patent ad-
justed balance, 25/-
Higher grade: 30/-, 35/-,
40/-
Solid Gold: £3, £3/10/-,
£4.
9ct. Gold BROOCH, set Pearls and
Red or Green Stones, 25/-
30
35 1-
Geri't.’s Solid Silver Hunting Keyless
Lever WATCH, non-magnetic, full-
jewelled patent time-spring, compensa-
tion balance, dustproof cases, 30/-
Extra jewelled, 35/-, £2, £2/10/-,
£3, up to £lO. Gold Filled, 55/-,
£4/4/-, £5/5/-; Solid Gold,
£B/10/-, £lO.
ADNDERS’
Sydney's leading jeweller
XMAS GIFTS IN JEWELLERY.
We would like you to see the thousands of other beautiful selections in our
Xmas Gift Book. Do let us send you a copy—it is free.
9ct. Gold LINKS, any in-
itials engraved, 20/-
15et. Gold, 40/-
15ct. Gold PENDANT, set
pure double-cut Diamonds
and Rubies, Aquamarines
or Tourmalines,
£B/10/-
9ct. Gold EARRINGS,
set Pearls and Ame-
thysts, or Red Stones,
22/6.
18ct. Golf], set 5
pure double-cut
Diamonds, £25.
18ct. Gold, set 3
large, double-cut
Diamonds, £lO.
15ct. Gold PENDANT, set
pure double-cut Diamonds,
and Tourmalines or Aqua-
marines, £l2/10/-
15ct. Gold EARRINGS,
pure double-out Dia-
mond Cluster and
Drops, £l5, £2O,
£25, £3O.
<r
18ct. Gold, all Dia-
mond CLUSTER,
£25.
18ct. Gold, set 5
pure, double-cut
Diamonds, £5.
15ct. Gold BROOCH, set pure double-cut Diamond,
£7/10/- With larger Diamond, £lO, £l5,
£2O. £3O.
Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding WATCH
BRACELET, full jewelled, lever movement,
accurate, reliable, £5.
Higher grade: £5/10/-, £6/10/-
WKi
9ct. Gold Half-Round BRACELET, richly chased,
£2, £2/10/-, £3. 15ct. Gold, £4, £4/10/-,
£5.
807-817 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
9ct. Gold LINKS,
set Red or Blue
Stone, 22/6.
15ct. Gold, £2.
m
9ct. Gold LOCKET,
richly engraved,
22/6.
JEWELLERY.
8/6
101-
il
s
%
Lady's Black Open Face Key-
less WATCH, full jewelled,
dust- and water-proof cases;
accurate, reliable, 8/6,
10/-
Higher grade: 15/-, 20/-,
25/-, 30/-
9ct. Gold BROOCH, set Pearls and
Garnets, 12/6.
1216
15]-
Gent.’s Nickel Open Face Keyless
LEVER, full jewelled, patent adjusted
balance, non-magnetic time-spring, dust-
and water-proof cases: 12/6, 15/-
lligher grades: 20/-, 20/-, 30/-
SIEMENS
ELECTRICITY METERS
CAN BE SUPPLIED FOR
c 3 UJ
KILOWATT-.HOUBS
iaaie-r 1 t>r CufTfiftt Vi & 4$ ® ®
ww - moi amor otM.
StEMENS-SCHUCKEBT r
58 'X,
SJ®Ve??s
a to*®*
khe
.
A.C
0
R
D.C.
C
I
R
C
U
I*
T
S
TYPE W 3.
3,5, 10, 15, 20, 30. 50 Amperes.
Frequencies from 25 to 39‘9 up to 450 Volts.
Frequencies from 40 to 125 up to 650 Volts.
WE CAN QUOTE FOR METERS FROM 1 to 10,000 Amperes.
SPECIAL QUOTATIONS FOR INDENT AND
YEARLY CONTRACTS.
Siemens Brothers Dynamo Works Limited,
Sydney and Melbourne.
New Blue Amberol
Records for December
and Christmas.
This Christmas thousands of people will enjoy some delightful
music, including beautiful vocal selections, entertaining humor
and thrilling band and orchestral music. The New Edison
Blue Amberol Records for December are now ready, and some
of the most popular will probably be an Orchestral Selection
entitled “The Idol’s Eye,” excellently rendered by Victor Her-
bert and his own Orchestra. Peter Dawson is heard in “The,
Toreador’s Song” and the “Miner’s Dream of Home.” The
seductive strains of the ever popular “Blue Danube” Waltz, ren-
dered by the American Standard Orchestra, _ will delight all.
Other worthy records are “Always take a girl named Daisy,”
“Down at Finnegan’s Jamboree,” “Lead, Kindly Light.” etc.
EDISON BLUE AMBEROL REGULAR RECORDS.
1542—My Hula, Hula Love— Mixed Voices,
orch. acc. Metropolitan Quartet
1713 —The Vacant Chair — Soprano and chorus,
orch. acc. Elizabeth Spencer and Chorus
1715—1 Will Sing of My Redeemer — Sacred,
organ acc. Edison Mixed Quartet
1727 — Deep Down in My Heart —
Bass, orch. acc. Joseph Parsons
1728 — The Two Beggars— Tenor
and Baritone. Anthony and Harrison
1729 Ride of the Thuringia Hussars —-
United States Marine Band
1730 — WilHairr Tell Fantasie — Xylophone,
orch. acc. Charles Daab
1731 — The Idol’s Eye—Selection —
Victor Herbert and his Orchestra
1733 Underneath the Cotton Moon —
Coon song and chorus, orch. acc.
Billy Murray and Chorus
1734 — Here’s to Love —“The Sunshine Girl”—
Soprano, orch. acc. Elizabeth Spencer
1737 — That Old Girl of Mine —
Baritone and chorus, orch. acc.
James F. Harrison and Chorus
1738 — When I Lost You—
Tenor, orch. ace. Irving Gillette
1740 — Favorite Airs from “The Geisha” —
Orch. acc. Edison Light Opera Co.
1741 — I’ll Get You-^-
Tenor, orch. acc. Walter Van Brunt
1742 — Beautiful Isle of Somewhere —
Sacred, Tenor and Baritone, orch. acc.
Anthony and Harrison
1746—You’re Just as Sweet at Sixty as You
Were at Sweet Sixteen —
Counter-Tenor, orch. acc. Will Oakland
1748 —Love and Devotion — Violin, Flute and
Harp. Venetian Instrumental Trio
1750-
1751-
1753-
1755-
1759-
1760
.1762-
1763-
1771-
1774-
23024-
23044-
23060-
23P64
23065-
23069-
23074
-Blue Danube Waltz —-
American Standard Orchestra
-La Paloma (The Dove)
Soprano, orch. acc. Mary Carson
-Roll on. Missourie — Baritone and Tenor,
orch. acc. Collins and Harlan
-Lead, Kindly Light—
Voices, unacc. Knickerbocker v liar
-Two Jolly Sailors — ,
Vaudeville. Porter and Hailan
—Annie Laurie and Home, Sweet Home-
Bells, orch. acc. John F. Burckhan
—Always Take a Girl Named Dai\\ •
Tenor duet, orch. acc. ...
Campbell and Gdlette
-Down at Finnegan’s Jamboree-
Violin, descriptive scene.
Charles D’Almaine ami go.
-Where the Sunset Turns the Ocean Blue
Ballad!'orch. acc. Bvron G. Harlan
-Just Plain Folks— Descriptive song am
chorus, orch. acc. Ada Jones and
-Italian Army March- Deir o
Accordion.
—-"My Young Man is Not the Choco a e
Soldier—- Willi*® 3
Comic song, orch. acc. t> lU >
-The Miner’s Dream of Home-- Dawgon
Bass, orch. ace. rel
-^^isssrass.;«-
-The Toreador’s Song— “ Carmen DawßOn
Bass, orch. acc.
-With Sword tor, Bond
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale only), Dept. 8., 364 = 372 KENT STREET, SYD>I


" T*
11,
1
', ■
/j
l»S«
5 I
m
--, ■
YOU...
will be
Interested
in the above illustration
which depicts the larger of
our two Rubber Mills, which
to-day give employment to nearly
1,000 hands. No huge establishment
of this description can be permanently
maintained by the manufacture of
shoddy or cheap goods. It's public
appreciation and recognition of the
superb quality incorporated in
DUNLOP
RUBBER•
GOODS *
that has resulted in the growth of this magnificent plant
—the huge demand for Rubber Goods that give satisfaction
to the user.
THE CALL for Dunlop Cycle, Motor Car, and Motor Cycle Tyres—Solid
Rubber Vehicle Tyres—Perambulator Tyres—Garden and other Hoses—
Engineering and Mining Rubber Goods—Rubber Belting-Rubber Heels—
Waterproof Garments and Rugs—Football Bladders—Tennis and Golf Balls,
and other Sporting Goods—Rubber Mats and Matting—Surgical Rubber
Goods—Wringer Rollers—Preserving Jar Rings, &c., &c., is tangible proof
that these goods give results that keep on gaining us new and permanent
customers. That’s the foundation of “ Dunlop” Success, and it’s going to
result in the above plant being again enlarged. YOU can help in that
direction by always specifying “ Dunlop” Brand when purchasing
any description of Rubber Goods which are obtainable from all
leading Depots, Stores, &c. Price Lists mailed on application .
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. OF AUST. LTD.
108 Flinders St., Melbourne.
255 Clarence St, Sydney.
103 105 Flinders St., Adelaide.
268-272 Adelaide St., Brisbane.
67 King St., Perth.
95 Courtenay Place, Wellington.
116 Worcester St, Christchurch.


THREE CHEERS!!
Haig 8 Haig Scots Whisky
(ESTABLISHED 1679.)
Franz Josef Lager Beer
Hackerbrau Dark Lager
TRY
PANIEL
C-l-A-W-F-O-l-P
PURE SCOTCH
W-m-S-K-Y.
THE CHOICE OF CONNOISSEURS.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The old foxes of the N.S.W. Labor party,
of course, dropped to the inherent viciousness
of Second Ballots. The second lot of con-
tests were in neglected country districts all
country districts are neglected, or think they
are. So the old foxes didn’t talk politics
when they went electioneering. They simply
put it this way: “We’ve got a majority, so
there’s bound to be a Labor Government.
You want a culvert. Now what’s the use of
sending a Liberal to get a culvert out of a
Labor Government?”
Headlines above an article in the S. M.
Herald last week :
MEAT TRUST.
Gaining Ground in Australia.
Well, of course. Isn’t that what the S. M.
Herald wanted? Anyway, a few months
ago, it fought the Referenda proposals for
combating Trusts, and if a man declines to
carry an umbrella when rain is threatening,
it’s a fair thing to assume that he really
enjoys a wetting.
Sydney had a seven-storey fire one night
last week, and enjoyed it hugely. On the
word of one of the morning papers which
do their best for the Congestion policy, and
the skyscraper of which it is part, “the fire-
men had a hopeless task.” About the only
thing they could do was to nurse the high
brick walls that enclosed the flames, so that
they would not crack and spill hundreds of
tons of hot bricks on to the adjacent two-
and three-storey dwarfs. Luckily, that fine
old incendiary, the wind, happened to sleep
right through the entertainment, so the golden
showers of sparks were not wafted round
the district, to give Sydney a taste of another
of the blessings of the Congestion policy.
The Senate had an exhilarating time the
week before it adjourned. It filled two days
with questions, arguments and casual amend-
ments ; then it brought up the report of a
speech by Joe Cook, in which he criticised
the language used by Senators. Poor Millen,
leading his microscopic minority, was asked
whether he had read the report, what he
thought of it, whether he approved of Cook’s
remarks, and what he meant to do about it.
His replies jbeing unsatisfactory, he was
rebuked, admonished, and finally instructed
to go and see liis Boss and get a replv of
some sort. The House was adjourned
till S p.m. to enable him to do so.
The Boss’s answer bc-ng even less
satisfactory than Millen s, the Opposi-
tion majority censured him, and then pro-
ceeded to reject the Preference Abolition Bill,
amend the Public Accounts Committee Bill,
and insist on its previous amendments to the
Audit Bill. Next day it w T as as sweet as
honey and as mild as milk, and Millen flat-
tered himself he would get his little Defence
Bill through without demur. The Opposition
smiled, debated the measure sweetly, and then
knocked a hole through the bottom of it.
After which it firmly but gently insisted on
its amendments to the Loan Bill, and then
courteously assured Millen that it proposed
to adjourn till Monday. As Millen “leads”
a House which is strong enough to go
whithersoever it lists and take the “leader”
with it, Millen had to accept the proposal.
By the end of another such session, he will
perhaps hai r e some doubts regarding the
sanity of our system of Party government.
THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
AND DEFENCE.
Of course Elmslie wasn’t able to persuade
Lieut.-Governor Madden that a dissolution
should come his way in Victoria. In fact, it
is doubtful whether any Governor ought ever
again to grant anybody a dissolution before
a Parliament’s three years are up. The
Governor’s job seems to be to say in effect;
“You tell me you can’t carry on because par-
ties are too nearly equal. Parties? What
are parties? I don’t know anything about
them. Will you swear members are evenly
divided about everything that wants doing?
No? Very well —then go and do a few of
the thousands of things that you are not
evenly divided over. The missus and I are
evenly divided on the question of scrambled
eggs. She loves and I hate them. But we
don’t quit housekeeping on that account. And
I’m not going to let you, either.”
Jokook’s pet term of contempt ought to be
registered as the war-cry of Liberalism for
electioneering purposes—“ Tripe !” Jack
Murray applied it 1 ist Thursday afternoon
to the "minute which the luckless Vic. Labor
Ministry was preparing for Waxcellency
Madden. Murray assumed that the docu-
ment would “prove to be merely tripe.”
“Trine,” seemingly, has come to stay in the
vocabulary of Liberalism. It stands for
caustic comment or crushing argument. It
has all the descriptive force of “hogwash”
and the gentle irony of “go-hon.” The
Labor party is doomed unless it can come
up to the scratch with a suitable rejoinder.
How would “Sausages!” do?
A SAFE SEAT.
The largest land ballot held in Australia took
place at Wyalong in connection with the Woollon-
gough and Ungarle homestead farms. For 35 farms
there were 2962 applicants, from all parts of Aus-
tralia.—S. M. HERALD, 8/12/’l3.
THE BIG HOLDER: “Beautiful! Beautiful!
I'll have to put up the price of my little
lot another pound an acre."
From an old political hand: —
Party Government was always a sorry makeshift;
but, at any rate, before the east-iron two-party sys-
tem came in, people could sometimes get a look in
at their own business concerns through the agency
of an Independent member or two. And the fear of
the Independent was often a great check on Parlia-
mentary corruption. But now that party government
has degenerated into faction fighting, the people never
get a look in at all. All the grabbing, jobbery and
robbery are pre-arranged by the two caucuses ; and
because every man-jack of the politician tribe is
afraid of being hoofed out of the party if he dares
to criticise its policy or Government, politicians have
degenerated into a race of Brer Rabbits, so far as
their own side is concerned, while their business is,
of course, to lie and misrepresent so far as the other
side is concerned. So we practically get none of the
truth: no man dares to tell the truth about his own
party if it goes wrong ; and it’s not his business to
tell the truth about the other party if it goes right.
Westralian Premier Scaddan
has been struck by a new
trouble from an unexpected
quarter. Before last election,
while he and his mates were
soliciting votes, they promised
that, if they were placed in
power, the railway service
would receive a substantial rise
in pay. The promise was
promptly and almost faithfully
redeemed. Now. with another
general election showing up on
the horizon, and a good wheat
harvest just ready for trans-
port, the same railway men
make a peremptory demand for
more. They simply give notice
that if their wishes are not
met within 14 days, the bottom
will be knocked out of things.
And Scaddan knows that his
alleged friends have put him in
a cleft stick. If he hands over
the required coin thousands of
voters will say that it isn’t safe
to put a Labor Government in
power because it encourages
public servants to become bush-
rangers ; and if he doesn’t
ante-up, and the bottom is knocked out of
things, the farmers will rage furiously, and
Scaddan will be knocked on the head as a
bungler.
In attempting to justify its
attitude towards the Vic. Labor
Ministry, Liberalism was some-
what unfortunate. The labori-
ously Liberal Age provided one
reason —to the effect that Labor
ought to be thrown out forth-
with, lest the young Adminis-
tration should raise railway-
men’s wages without referring
the matter to Parliament. Willy
Watt himself evolved another
reason —that the “electoral in-
tentions” of Chief Secretary
Prendergast were a departure
from “general principles every-
one acknowledged.” Consider-
ing that (1) what Prendergast
proposed was simply to enrol
large numbers of people who
ought to be enrolled, and (2)
for years Victorian railway
men have been how-ling for jus-
tice and getting considerable
sympathy from the public and
nothing else, it looks as though Liberalism
has presented its opponents with two excel-
lent helps to win popular approval.
In the Labor-selection ballot for the late
A. W. Craven’s Benambra seat in the Vic.
Assembly still another farmer was top
scorer. His name is John Moyle, and he
separates the sheep from the oats in the
Tallangatta region.
One of Willie Watt’s most
implacable opponents in
these days is ancient
“Jimmy” Mirams, who was
writing politico-financial ar-
ticles for the Age 50 years
ago, and quarter of a cen-
tury later was the scapegoat
when the boom burst and
somebody had to be punished.
The ancient has just issued
a leaflet, “The Ass in the
Lion’s Skin,” in which he
snorts at Willie’s claim to
be a Liberal and a Protec-
tionist, and denounces
Willie’s recent redistribu-
tion scheme as merely one
to diddle the Laborites bv
giving the Conservatives of
the country extra represen-
tation.
HIS MOTHER'S SON.
As far as important legislative achievement is con-
cerned it will probably have been the most barren
session of any Parliament since the establishment of
Federation. This is not an unmixed evil, for both in
the Federal and State spheres we have had a surfeit
of legislation.— S. M. HERALD.
GRANNY: “Well, Joseph Cook , I'm very phased
to see that you have got through the
session without passing any of our Liberal
programme .”
THE SLUM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Disclosures with regard to slum conditions in Mel-
bourne are shocking. Whole streets of hovels belong
to prominent city councillors. — Recent press item.
When halls of high Swellgravia are aflood with light
and song,
And floors are all a-quiver with a merry, dancing
throng ;
When heirs of half a city to their partners whisper
low,
And soft, entrancing melodies swim dreamlike to
and fro,
You sometimes catch a calling, like a smothered
undertone,
A muttered incantation with a cadence all its own ;
From haunts of hidden misery its voices seem to
come.
It swells a gruesome portent—’tis the murmur of the
slum.
In foetid hut and hovel, lo! the city children lie
When earth is all a-swelter ’neath a lid of brassy
sky;
So thick they press together in the pinched and
narrow room
’Twere hard to crowd them closer did you shut them
in the tomb ;
A gutter foul goes trickling by the entrance to the
lair,
And blends a keen malodor with the sultry morning
air;
And in that blighted atmosphere the soul is stricken
dumb —- • *
For soul and body dwindle in the Hades of the
slum.
Yet up in high Swellgravia the babes are fat and
fair,
With eyes of laughing love-light, and with lustre
in their hair;
And at their lightest wishes do the lackeys speed
away
To win the toy that gives a joy to gilded youth at
play;
And as they sport with boyish prank and winning,
girlish wile,
The happy parents watch the game with soft, com-
placent smile;
For all have health and all have wealth, and all are
glad—and some
Are lords of rods of alleys in the Hades of the slum.
The villas of Swellgravia in their spotless splendor
show;
The furtive fires of fever lick the hovels of the row.
The lords of many tenements are lapt in linen fine;
The serfs who do them homage in their squalor peak
and pine.
The hut is built of matchwood that the manse may
be of stone,
And toil is half-requited to put purple on the drone.
And everywhere the winter air bites little bodies
numb,
Because the rag is all the flag that floats above the
slum.
And over ev’ry anthem high and under ev’ry hymn
You seem to catch the swelling of a murmur low
and grim,
Admonishing the heedless, giving counsel to the wise:
Beware of building lordly States on sand of rotten
lies!
In human breasts and human weal alone lies human
wealth,
And not in lordly palaces built up of subtle stealth.
In ev’ry land, at Hell’s command, when Ruin smote
her drum,
’Twas always beat to call the feet of rebels from the
slum!
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
KNOCKING DOWN MA’S CHEQUE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Premier’s Triumph—Uproarious Welcome—Crowd
at Railway Station. — Sydney newspaper headlinet.
Bill ’Olman come ter town ter-day. You orter ’eard
’em yell
When ole Bill dropped ’is swag inside th’ Boom an’
Bust ’Otel.
“Come on, yous blokes!” yells Bill, an’ shies ’is
cheque acrost th’ bar.
“There’s plenty more where that come from! Three
cheers, yous blokes, fer Ma!”
’lp, ’ip, ’ooray! ! Th’ cheers they give near brought
th’ bottles down.
Then ev’ry bummer crowded round and welkimed
Bill ter town.
While Cohen sweated at th’ pump an’ pulled th’
pints o’ Joy,
Ole Bill stood smilin’ proudly like th’ Wild Ker-
lonyerl Boy.
An’ when each bloke ’ad put three down, an’ ’ad a
fourth in reach,
Ole Joe ’e says, “I call erpon Bill ’Olman fer a
speech! ”
We cheered an’ stamped till Bill said “Right!” an’
jumped up on th’ bar.
“Now, lads,” says Bill, “I’ll tell yer wot me plans
an’ platform are!
Remember wot I said when I was in this bar before?’’
(’E ’ad ter wait until they stopped from bangin’ on
th’ floor.)
“You ain’t fergot wot I said then?” (My oath!”
“No blanky fear!”)
“Drunk as I am,” says I, “I’ll be a d — d sight
worse next year !”
You orter ’eard ’em yell an’ stamp when ole Bill
tole ’em that!
But ’ow did they go on when Bill throws down ’is
blanky ’at,
An’ yells, “I’ll teach yous blokes ter booze! I’ve
got th’ money too,
So ev’ry bloke in town will ’ave more beer than ’e
can chew!
’Oo says that I ain’t right ter booze?” (“Good on
yer, Bill! ’Ooray !”)
That’s ’ow th’ lads received th’ noose when Bill
come in ter-day.
Lorblimy, Missus Noo South Wales (that’s Bill’s
step-mother) she
Must love ’er boy ter give ’im such a boshter cheque
ter spree! ”
N.S.W.
KODAK.


■ /O
£ H \
rr V .'S->
K',ll!
■ Cv
The money at stake in the choic
of an oil is vastly more than the
cost of any oil whatever.
Gargoyle Mobiloil is our speciality
Car
Gossip
Gargoyle Mobiloil
and
Pratt’s Spirit
The result of fifty years'
experience.
The best that we
can do.
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty Ltd
Throughout the
Commonwealth and
► New Zealand
Why Have We so Many
Country Customers?
The reason's obvious. We always please every one of our
Country Customers. One of our strictest rules is to invariably
refund your money if you are dissatisfied with your purchase.
We have just issued a new Catalogue which is full of illustra-
tions and descriptions of footwear specially suitable for Country
wear. Shall we send you a copy ?
Have You Seen Better Value
than this?
MODEL No. 2it
1916
Men's Glace Kid Derby Bals, with
stylish circular golosh and patent
leather toe-caps*
SEND FOR OUR
CATALOGUE
JUST PRINTED.
m
Russell Street, Melbourne.
BOOKS FOR
SANITARY INSPECTORS.
We recommend these Text Books to those
students who purpose studying for the
Commonwealth Examinations . Call here
and examine before buying .
DOUBLE POSTAGE RATES TO NEW ZEALAND.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD
476 George Street
(OPPOSITE QUEEN
VICTORIA MARKETS),
Sydney
Held in
a Girl’s
Hand!
Pathe’s Home
Cinematograph
EVERYTHING NECESSARY, EXCEPTING ONLY THE SCREEN,
IS IN THE MACHINE AS THE GIRL IS HOLDING IT.
Pathe’s Home Cinematograph -
Makes its own light. Fig. 16 is a small magneto. As the handle that
projects the picture is turned, sufficient light is produced in the magneto to
throw a moving picture of startling distinctness on the screen. Anyone, in
any place, town or country, can have Moving Pictures in the Home without
the use of gas, electric light, or oil. No outside light is necessary. You
cannot get this advantage in any other cinematograph.
The Films will not burn -
Pa the Films are non-inflammable. There is absolutely no danger. In
Victoria the Fire Underwriters’ Association charge no extra premium if a
Pathe Home Cinematograph is in the home. You cannot get this advantage
in any other cinematograph.
Large choice of Films in Pathe’s Circulating Library
not obtainable for any other cinematograph .
RATHE FRERES,
27 Alliance Buildings,
48 Queen Street, Melbourne.
HOME CINEMATOGRAPH & AGENCIES PTY.
LTD., 48 Queen Street, Melbourne;
BIRCH & CARROLL, Edward Street, Bris-
bane; S. SPURLING & SON, 93 Brisbane
Street, Launceston; OPTICAL & PHOTO
SUPPLIES CO., 672 Hay Street, Perth;
or C. W. FRASER & CO., 139 York Street,
Sydney; HARRINGTONS (N Z.) LTD., 42 Willis
Street, Wellington, N.Z.; W. PARK, Sta-
tioner, Palmerston North, N.Z. ; G. R. FORE-
MAN & CO. .Napier, N.Z. ; WILKINS & FIELD
HARDWARE CO. LTD.. Nelson. New Zealand ;
THE NEW ZEALAND FARMERS’CO-OPERA-
TIVE ASSOCIATION OF CANTERBURY LTD.;
PATERSON & BARR LTD., Dunedin, for
Dunedin; The Arts and Crafts Depot,
Masterton, N.Z.
CUT OUT AND POST TO=DAY
Please send me particulars 0/ Pathi's
Home Cinematograph.
Name
Address
27.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Absolutely Pure.
No Preservatives.
E. RESCH’S LIMITED , Brewer by Appoint-
ment to his Excellency the Governor-General.
Brewery and Offices : Dowling Street, Redfern, Sydney
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Martin’s Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. Ladies recommend
them. Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature. Martin. Chemist, Southampton.*
The Lone Hand for January, which will
be published on Saturday, contains some
excellent photographs of Antarctica. They
are from the camera of Frank Hurley, the
official photographer of the Mawson Expedi-
tion.
810-SHOWMEN !
X HERE’S only one BEST Biograph. We can prove
1 it to be the' “SILENT EMPIRE.” Send for Cata-
logue. Sole agents: Jerdan’s, Ltd., 393 Cte<SCge
Sydney.
ASTHMA AND BRONCHITIS.
GREAT RELIEF OBTAINED FROM
DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS.
EXPERIENCE OF CAMPERDOWN
LADY.
The voluntary statement of Mrs. Ellen
Brown, of 188 Church Street, Camperdown,
Sydney, in
which she cred-
its Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root
Pills for bring-
ing relief from
persistent at-
tacks of asthma
and bronchitis,
is worthy of
consideration by
all people who
are likewise af-
fected. Mr s.
Brown does not
say she _ was
cured, neither
do the proprie-
tors of P ri
Morse’s Indian
Root Pills claim
them to be a
cure, but they
do claim they
will bring relief
from these most distressing complaints. J» i s -
Brown writes: —
“For six or seven years I was as.
sufferer from chronic asthma and broach _
which used to lay me up for weeks at a mu •
I got very reduced in health. I coal .
trust myself, to go out without I ha
lent attack. One day a friend P er ® u *JpJ lB
to try a few Dr. Morse s Indian Ro' rg _
which she gave me. They gave me si h
lief that I sent and bought a bottle.
ever I feel an attack coming on 1 , t
ately take them and get all nght. 0
suffer one quarter the agony now, ana
every confidence of a permanent cur J d
on. I always have a bottle in the ho „ ,
I always recommend them to any that
like I did; it is only fair that Others
know- the worth of them. You Lave my P
mission to. use this for advertising 1
poses.”*'
MRS. ELLEN BROWN.
(From a photo.)
SPORTING
NOTIONS
It runs in families. Two of the best bats
amongst the youngsters playing this season for
Sydney Grammar School are Trumper and Bardsley.
Judging by the results of the first test
match in S’Africa, the home side is particularly
weak. Most of the leading players, including Faulk-
ner and Schwarz, have disappeared ; and of the team
that visited Australia A. D. Nourse alone seems to
be in anything like form. On paper the Australian
team going to S’Africa next year will have an easy
time.
Judging by the poor attendance at Sydney
Cricket Ground on Saturday to watch Macartney
smite Satan out of the South Aus. bowling, cricket’s
power to draw a crowd is as good as dead. In the
most perfect weather, with men like Trumper,
Macai'tney and Barbour in the team, an inter-State
game failed to draw more than 6000 people to about
the best ground in the world. The game evidently
needs revising or improving somewhere!
Maoriland Cricket XI fled northwards till
it met Queensland at Brisbane, and in the ensuing
struggle on a sodden wicket the Bananaland team
smashed up the Kiwis for 89. It was a sad display,
the top score being the 19 of Hickmott. Only two
others (Hemus 14 and Patrick 10) reached double
figures; even Sundries accounted for only four.
The bowlers were Barstow, who killed five for 47 ;
and Ironmonger, who shot four moas for 38. When
Queensland went to the sticks it made a depressing
start, the first three batsmen accumulating only
eight between them. But the fourth man, Marshal,
made the score of the day, 42, before he was
bowled. Prout made 14 and Evans obliged with
30, so, in spite of some ducks, the score, largely
helped by 24 sundries, soared to 124. The Maoriland
wicketkeeping was far from brilliant. Maoriland
started on its second effort 35 to the bad, and at the
close of Saturday’s play had lost four wickets for 64.
The first match for the Sheffield Shield
between N.S.W. and South Aus., started at Sydney
Cricket Ground on Friday. South won the toss and
decided to bat while the sun shone. Mayne and
Chamberlain opened, and made five and 28 respec-
tively. The top score was Crawford’s 91 ; Pellew
backed him with 57, but excepting the two 28’s
made by Mayne and Steele, and the 27 by Sundries,
he was' not well supported otherwise. The pile of
Sundries was a disgrace to the Ma State; yet, in
spite of it, the side was dismissed for a very moderate
281. Kelleway and Bardsley rushed to the sticks
for Ma’s sake.” Bardsley came to a sudden and in-
glorious end, being caught by Mayne before he had
time to score. Kelleway put up a modest 21, and
then hied away, and Macartney and Trumper were
together. It looked a terrific combination. But
Macartney was the dangerous one, and in 75min.
he had smacked and bashed a neat 100, which he
afterwards increased to 104, and carried his bat at
close of day. Trumper made a mere 19. When
stumps were drawn N.S.AV. had only two wickets
down for 149 runs. On Saturday morning they
broke out with fury. But Macartney added only
13 and Trumper only one. Barbour got 52, and
Andrews 43. Reliable Folkard smacked 25 and was
the not-out man. The southern wieketkeeping was
far better than Ma’s, and sundries were only five,
leaving 307 on the board. South went to bat once
more, 26 in arrears. Mayne and Chamberlain again
took strike. This time Chamberlain was bowled for
a duck. Mayne, however, bashed 68 before McKew
stumped him off Mailey. Moyes and Crawford made
41 and 40 respectively, and Pellew put on 23. When
the light gave out, seven wickets were down for
183. In South’s first effort Kelleway was the star
bowler, his three wickets costing 51 runs. Folkard s
three were worth 63 runs and Massie’s three 80.
Crawford was the strong hurler of the South Aus-
tralians, taking five of Ma’s wickets for 89 runs.
Kirkwood got three, for 76.
The spectacled Jim Crawford, of South
Aus., is the lion of the Wheat State’s XI, and at
time of writing is giving Ala a taste of his form. In
two innings he piled up 93 and 40, and also gathered
five wickets for 89 runs. He howled 36 overs at a
cost of 84, and by sending down seven maidens was
the only man to shine in that department. The ex-
cellence of Crawford’s bowling is proved by the fact
that the other four bowk-s could gather only four
wickets for 209 between them. #
Old Sundries is playing high jinks against
the Ala State in this season’s inter-State cricket
matches. Bananaland pocketed 50 out of 232 and 18
out of 211 a week ago. Then South Aus. received 27
out of 281 in the first innings. In each match the N.S.AV.
selectors placed a new man behind the sticks, and as
both exhibitions were decidedly low in quality, it
looks as though another search will have to be made.
AVhat is wanted is a stumper capable of helping his
own side. South Aus., on the other hand, had a
wicket-keeper of brilliant ray in L. E. AVinser, a re-
cent arrival from Bull Land. Although the South
Aus bowling was particularly varied, only nine runs
were added to Ala’s tally by sundries. On his show-
ing Winser should hold first place among the hopes
for the Australian XI.
Swelled head is always an affliction, but
when it hits a surfer it is horrifying to all hands ex-
cept the adjacent shark. There were several swelled
heads surfing last week, and the sharks, especially at
Coogee, came in very close to give the vainglorious
ones a welcome. Owing, however, to the vigilance
of the watchers the Sydney press missed a sensational
headline or two. Disobeying the order of those in
charge of the beach should be made an offence worth
£2O or two months, for the shark-baiter endangers
valuable lives as well as the one he apparently places
no value on.
At Penrith (N.S.W.) on Saturday, Syd-
ney topnotch swimmer W. Longworth put up a
fine performance in the fresh water of the Nepean
River, against a crowd of 29 metropolitan swimmers.
The distance was 1320yd5., and Longworth was on
scratch, with the limit men 6min. 15sec. away in
front when he kicked off. The breeze was strong,
and blew right in their faces, raising a very ugly
jobble. Right from the jump Longworth made pace
1— he had to, considering the handicaps he conceded.
One after another he passed them all, except Good-
win, of Sydney, and Taylor, of North Shore, who had
clawed their way to the front and were swimming
in a style that suggested they had the ability to
stay there. For 100 awful yards Longworth, though
fully extended, could make no impression . on their
lead. Goodwin, in fact, seemed to he increasing
his pace. But the strain told, and they began to
fade; and despite their gallant struggles Longworth
Crept remorselessly nearer. At last he was level,
and then he forged to the front. They came at him
again. But it was a spent effort. They could not
overtake him, neither could he shake them right
off; and for all he knew they might have a sprint
for the finish concealed about them. Taylor was the
first to fall back slightly. Goodwin hung on des-
perately ; but he had no final spring about him,
and Longworth finished three seconds to the good.
Goodwin was a good second, any way; with Taylor
third. Longworth’s time was 19min. 51sec., which,
under the disadvantageous circumstances, was a
mighty deed.
When the U.S.A. athletic team struck
Dunedin (M.L.) they met the wild Otago Cale-
donian on his native swamp, and things became
strenuous. In the 100 Yards Handicap Parker
(U.S.A.) was beaten in his heat. Putting the 161 b.
shot saw Reg Caughey, one of the visitors, win by
3ft. lin. from Reid, of Otago, who beat Yankee
Parker. In the 880 Yards Race, the Yankee dropped
out. But he came again in the Running Broad
Jump. In the 120 Yards Hurdles, Templeton (U.S.)
won his heat, but, finding himself up against
Maorilander Keddle, who had twice previously beaten
him, he did not face the final. The Mile Handicap
also saw J. A. Power (U.S.) retire after laps;
and in the Running High Jump Templeton was
beaten by A. S. Reid. Altogether the visitors
struck an evil day.
The A.J.C. opened its Christmas Meeting
at Randwick in bright sunshine pleasantly tempered
with a breeze that was like a long, cool drink, grateful
and refreshing. From the punter’s point of view the
day had only one drawback —the wrong horses won.
A big proportion of the winners went out at 12’s, a
sure sign that they carried no great swag of coin.
The Grand Stand Stakes was about the best race
from the public’s financial standpoint, the winner,
Alured, starting at 7to 4 against. The gilded plum
of the afternoon was, of course, the Villiers Stakes, a
£lO sweepstakes with £lOOO added. A field of 23
faced the starter, and the public proceeded to pile on
Golden Hop in great quantities at sixes. But Michael
Judastein did not long maintain even that price,
although he certainly continued to bawl B’s against
First Principle and Gigandra, the second favorites.
The first to show out was the 33-to-one-against chance
Malchester, with the favorite in hot pursuit. Then
Popinjay blew along, but was immediately headed by
Royal Laddie. Then Popinjay again. Golden Hop at the
six-furlong post was running about third last, and hope
began to wither in the punter’s bosom. At the bend
First Principle put his nose level with Popinjay’s
girths, Malchester looked as though he had designs
on First Principle’s tail, and Royal Laddie was hang-
ing to him. As Popinjay thundered into the straight
he was pursued in that order. At the distance First
Principle came at the leader; but as he came he
swerved, losing ground by running the loop, so to
speak, and Popinjay, dashing straight for the win-
ning post, won by two lengths, with Royal Laddie
third, about four lengths behind First Principle. The
time, lmin. 38isec., was Isee. worse than last year’s.
THE AFFLICTION OF TUMMINESS.
At Sydney Stadmm “ Smotherer ” Evernden
smote Jeremiah Jerome on his bulge, and
thereafter the overweighted prophet lamented a
losing fight.
“Hermes”: Some nice little dividends
handed out by the Tote at Belmont (Perth) on
Saturday; First-class Plate, £5 14s. (for 10s.) ;
Second-class Plate, £lO 12s. ; Christmas Handicap,
£l3; and Welter Handicap, £l2. By the way,
isn’t the advocate of the Tote in N.S.W. barking up
the wrong tree in asking Parliament to introduce
the Tote? Is there any law against the use of the
Tote on a registered racecourse? Betting is allowed
on such courses, and Tote betting is far more genuine
wagering than gambling with bookmakers. All that
is required is to convert the racing clubs, not
Parliament.
Adelaide does not go racing to excess—
never except on Saturday, barring a Cup Day; not
more than once a fortnight, on the year’s average,
for the whole metropolitan area ; and less than once
a fortnight when the crowded autumn campaign is
over. But it likes to be comfortable. The S.A.J.C.
at Morphettville and the Adelaide Racing Club at
Victoria Park (within the city boundaries) have
made themselves luxurious courses, and the Port Ade-
laide club, the only suburban one, is working up
to their standard. It has just thrown open its
£12,000 improvements, including a railway siding
near the stands, a hoist for the flat, Flemington
style, and a new Hodsdon (Queensland) totalisator,
which is of course claimed to be the best in Aus-
tralia. It is the Tote, as a matter of fact, which
has made these luxuries possible, as it does every-
where it is used. Port Adelaide, by the way, has
made an innovation by allowing well-known patrons
to deposit cheques with the secretary and buy tickets
against the amount. It will be a convenience for a
few heavy bettors, but for the “machine” to depart
from the strict cash principle that has always been
its boast seems to be like asking for trouble.
* * * *
No less than 78 motor cyclists have entered
for the Continental Reliability Test between Sydney
and Melbourne. This procession will rage across the
landscape of two States from December 29 till Janu-
ary 1. The first day it will puff and snort to Goul-
burn, 132 miles, and indulge in a flexibility test on
Governor’s Hill before entering control. The second
day will take it over Jugiong Hill —1408 yards, and
250 feet high—on to Gundagai, 120 miles. So far
the running' will have been fairly good. But on the
third day will come the awful roads between Gun-
dagai and Wangaratta, 164 f miles. Over that wil-
derness points will be lost wholesale and probably
some machines smashed up. The final run will be
the 148 miles between Wangaratta and Melbourne,
and will include a non-stop from Seymour to Craigie-
burn. The first and chief reward for all this will be
a motor-bike worth £65, which will be awarded to
the rider who loses the least number of points.
Separate prizes will be dealt out for the various
competitions en route, and then 78 weary men will
sit down and think hard if the game is worth it.
However, the affair will throw some light on the
question whether seven or eight h.p. is necessary
for road work. There are 10 seven- and eight-
powered bikes competing, and they are up against one
of 2i, a swarm of 2i and 2f, a still larger swarm of
3ps, one of 4 and 13 sixers. Thus practically all
powers are represented.
* * * *
On the beautiful roads of Yorke’s Peninsula
(S.A.) George Ramsay has knocked the 24hours’ motor-
cycle record into shivers. A 34-mile lap was taken,
southward of the Wallaroo copper-mine, and he flew
round it once an hour, doing a bit better than that
towards the end of the day. He started and finished
at 4 p.m., and raised the record from 722 miles to
836. The only question is whether the length of the
course can be guaranteed.
Just out in time for the Christmas tours,
“Broadbent’s Motor Route, Melbourne to Sydney,” one
of the best half-crown’s worth of earefull.y-compiled
information ever printed. Broadbent takes the road
by sections and gives a most minute description of
everything, from V-drains to XXX bars.
The New York Six Days’ Race, an annual
cycling struggle of much importance, has just re-
sulted in a win for ex-Australian Goullett and J. Fogler,
of the U.S.A. Another Australian, It. J. McNamara,
finished third, with Root, of New York. Grenda and
A. J. Clark had to retire owing to falls.
The distance covered is not stated, but the previous
American best was the 2737 miles put up by Mac-
Farland and Moran at N.Y. in 1908. The best Aus-
tralian run was that in Sydney in 1912, when Goul-
lett and Hehir did 2085 miles and 1680 yards. Goul-
lett has been very lucky at this sort of grinding;
since he and Hehir won the Sydney and Melbourne
double, he and Fogler scooped the big Paris event, with
the world’s record run of 2775 J miles in April last
year. Fogler won the New York race last December
also, but on that occasion his mate was Rutt, the
German champion.
Sydney’s Pennant bowls on Saturday was
scarcely a game for weak hearts. Consider the ex-
citement when Victoria Park just squeezed Randwick
out of it by a majority of one (95 to 94), and Bur-
wood upset Petersham’s applecart by six. Balmain
■did better against Woonoona, and had seven to spare.
City clouted Red fern by eight, and Mosman downed
Hunter’s Hill with the same majority. There were a
few other victories somewhat less arduous, but, on
the whole, things were very strenuous. Fortunately,
in most cases, stimulants were handy.
Judging by statistics recently published in
the United States, baseball is one of the most dan-
gerous games on earth. During the season just
closed in Yankeeland no less than 15 players have
been killed outright, while the non-fatal but serious
injuries run to hundreds.
Summer baseball was not exactly sus-
pended in Sydney on Saturday—it was merely re-
moved. The teams went to Windsor and played a
couple of matches in aid of the local hospital, and
had a good time. The first match Was between the
Reds and Blues. The Reds started badly, and scored
only three in four sessions. The Blues in the same
time put up 11. Things looked blue for the Reds.
But they struggled on, and eventually won by 18
to 11. Then a combined team was chosen from
these teams, and went up against Leichhardt B. It
had no hope. It was utterly overthrown and stamped
flat, and Leichhardt raged out winners by 15 to nine.
Johnson got into the ring last Friday at
Paris, opposed to another nigger called Jim John-
son—whether a brother or a cousin or merely a son
of Ham was not stated in the cable. The place was
thronged with women, and they made a terrific uproar
when it became apparent that the niggers were
anxious to avoid hurting one another. The scrap
ended in the fifth round, and was declared a draw;
after which the audience, led by the women, furi-
ously demanded their money hack. Whether they got
it the cable forgot to tell. But as Jack Johnson had
allegedly broken an arm the nasty remarks may have
been undeserved.
Waldemar Heiberg’s bad luck found him
out again in Melbourne on Saturday night. He was
fighting Alf Goodwin, who wanted to hug him like a
bear. Holberg fought him off, and piled up points
galore. Had the fight gone the full distance Holberg
must have won. But getting irritated at the con-
stant clinching, Holberg bashed at the break-away,
and referee Fullalove cautioned him. Fullalove has
a beastly habit of meaning what he says, and when
the forgetful Holberg repeated the offence several
times in the 14th round, the referee stopped the
fight and gave it to Goodwin on a foul. The most
surprised wight in the place was Goodwin; but he
soon recovered sufficiently to wander round and
collect the large of the fighters’ share.
That much-talked-of scrap between Lang-
ford and Jeannette, at New York, back in October,
seems to have been very much over the odds. Lang-
ford in condition should weigh 12st. 21b., but he
cheerfully admitted that he was 14st. 31b., whereat
everyone marvelled where he hid the weight of
black flesh. Jeannette walked off a Boston vaudeville
stage, where he had been giving a turn, jumped into
a train and got to New York just in time to keep
faith. Faith as regards showing up, that is. Other-
wise the only faith was on the part of the public
who put up' the splosh. Langford’s stalling was
terrific —he would hurl in vast punches and pull them
back just before they made impact. In one case
Jeannette made a mistake, and landed Langford a
beauty on the nose that made it bleed considerably,
and Langford’s look of surprise and Jeannette’s ex-
pression of horror were a sight for the gods, who
rose up and hooted fiercely. The referee begged
them to fight and give the people something for their
money, but they ignored the request, and went on
killing time with little sparring and much hugging.
Probably the greatest fight of the year will
be the disturbance between Harry Stone and Herbert
McCoy, at Sydney Stadium on Friday night. On
paper Stone should beat McCoy from the jump;
but paper form counts for nothing in boxing.
Judging by the speed McCoy showed in his fight
with Pal Brown, it is just possible that he may be
able to catch the elusive Hebrew as he comes in, or
as he backs off. McCoy has the faculty of taking
punishment and slogging like a Trojan all through.
His quickness of return as we saw in the fight with
Brown is phenomenal, and heavy, too. He seems to
know bv intuition where to hit, and if he does
beat Stone it will be one of those sudden rights that
shook Brown so much that will wing the dancing
Menhisto—and Stone without speed is a dead bird
and a gone coon.
* * * *
English featherweight Owen Moran, who
gave Australia and all things Australian such a bad
name when he arrived in the U.S.A., was recently
disqualified, after manv warnings, for butting. It
was at Oaldands, California, and the object of his
butts was Joe Azvedo, strongly suspected of being
a Spaniard or some other Dago. He was
all over Moran at the time, and the latter 7,1"
ently reckoned it was better to Jose on a foul P th
on points, as the Yankees horrible hahit,
turning down a beaten man instanter— and in tw
country to lose on a foul is not defeat hut 1 1
mischance or bad luck. Owen has led a strenS
life, and it is probably the beginning of the end
The fight between Englishman Arthur
Evernden and Jeremiah Jerome at Sydney sula;.
on Saturday night was a strenuous affair but
from exciting. It is said that when Jerry Ilk
really hard he is no good ; and there is little do, ht
that for this fight he was badly
roast pig and other luxuries. Jerry’s condition w as
so hopeless that he could not follow up his advan
tages when he succeeded in scoring them No m,
ever -expects to see him win on points. He is not
a pointsman, nor anything else connected with »
railway. He wins with a sudden, hurricane act Hp
goes baresark, showers a sudden blizzard of siedsre
hammer blows with lightning-like rapidity and
when the dust has cleared the other is down or
out, or both. In Saturday night’s riot Evernden
scored in the first round, but got knocked down in
the second and all but outed. Then, had Jerry been
in nick, he could have unwound his hurricane and
ended it. But he didn’t. The fight degenerated
into a scrambling business in which, bent almost
double, they stood head to head or shoulder to
shoulder and sought for a chance to uppercut. Jerrv
acted the giddy ox to a considerable extent and
allowed Evernden to pile up a small mountain of
points. In the 17th he caught the Englishman a
fearful left swing on the right eye, and cut it
very badly. Jerry did follow up oh that occasion
but failed to accomplish anything very serious’
That eye troubled Evernden right through the rest
of the fight, but he fought on with dogged persist-
ence, and piled up points very grimlv. As time
went on the aborigine became anxious and waded
in for a knock-out. But Evernden smothered his
attempts to cut loose, and Jerome was not in con-
dition for speed. Another few ounces of the rapidity
he has so often shown, and the Australian would
have won hands down. As it was. Evernden- fought
a remarkably gallant battle, after the cutting of the
eye, and deserved his victory. All the same in
proper condition, Jeremiah would sing the hymn
of victory while Evernden wrote his lamentations.
“M.P.A.”: Clarence Weber, Melbourne’s
most beauteous athlete, decisively vanquished William
Maynard, an American wrestler, in a catch-as-catch-
can at Melbourne Athletic Club. Weber had the
advantage of height, weight and strength. Against
this, Maynard was said to have a whole bag of tricks
up his sleeve; but the clean-built, hefty-looking
stranger didn’t get a chance to reveal one of them.
Clarence rushed his man hard to the ropes, laid
violent hands upon him, and scored a flying fall. In
the second bout Weber again tried the same trick—
a body-hold well up under the armpits, a lift and a
side heave. But Maynard turned quickly as Weber
brought him down and spreadeagled on the defensive.
Clarence next seized the Yank’s foot in a vyee-like
grip, and clung to it for some minutes, working on
the leg as a lever to upset Maynard’s equilibrium. He
eventually forsook the leg attack for a chance that
enabled him to gain the second fall with something
in the nature of a half-Nelson and further arm-hold.
This bout lasted Bmin., and finished the match. Weber
has met a fair string of wrestlers since old Buttan
Singh gave him such a doing in Wirths’ Circus tent
in Melbourne years ago ; but turkey-legged old Singh
is still the toughest and most crafty of the lot.
Weber beat him for the title with plain rough-up
methods. When Singh went to England some few
years ago he proved himself equal to, if not better
than, any of the middleweights thereabouts ; so if one
draws a line on Singh’s form in England, it would
place Weber about top dog in such company. But
amongst the men of tonnage he would have no chance.
Evidently the boxing ring at the M.A.C. is no place
for a wrestling contest, in any case. The rusher with
the height and weight has all the advantage. Pinned
against the ropes, a smaller man hasn’t a ghost of a
chance, and at this game Weber succeeds every time.
* * * *
Reg Baker has a Chinese boxer coming
on, and declares he will make a champion of him.
This is awful! Mclnstoush brought his black pugs
out here, and for about two years the world groaned
under the fear of the Dark. When that passed it
was the day of the Jew. Jews are absolutely on
top of the game just now in every class in which
they are represented. Perhaps it is the strategic
side of Baker’s brain that suggested to him the
training of the Chow to beat the Chosen. But imagine
the feelings of the average Australian boxer when he
steps into the ring w r ith the Yellow Agony!
J. J. Miller’s neat little diary and date
book for 1914 is on the Melbourne market, and can
be now procur’ed by post from the Miller Printing
Co.’s office. As a pocket companion for daily use
and frequent reference it is the best of its sort.
Insuring the car against destruction by
fire is a ticklish business in Michigan (U.S.A.),
where a law has just decreed 25 years imprisonment
for burning a car to collect the insurance. The in-
surance cos., of course, pulled the strings. Probably
when the premiums ease off they will be sorry they
overdid it.


How to Remain
Vigorous and Healthy.
Brace up your system, invigorate your
circulation, and you’ll build up a sufficient
reserve of energy to retain vigorous health.
TAUCHTRV 15I alth exercises,
1A CHI B 1 I osr, secures greatest bene-
tits with least expenditure of effort and
time. You see they’re scientific movements
that go straight to the right spot. Every
motion benefits. Every necessary movement
is there. Everything useless is cut out.
IN° apparatus of any kind is required. All
tt U nee( l 18 elbow room.
Under such favorable conditions progress
is naturally rapid and good results per-
manently secured.
how these men have benefited :
j!* ani Phased to report I am getting on splen-
, J’, an< f am feeling better in every wav, since I
started your Course.”—O.H., Dunedin, N.Z.
t have now finished my second month’s course, and
m ß n th l 1 ne . ver felt better - Nothing pleases
tha " B' oln S through your exercises. Mv
chest is 36 inches as against 334 when I started, and
J have put on 81b. in weight.’ *
E *M., Gunnedah, N.S.W.
t must say I have improved wonderfully in health
and spirits since starting your Course. I have
gained nearly half a stone in weight, and I feel
better than ever.”—T.J.H., Tolga, Q.
And only fifteen minutes’ daily exercise
secured these magnificent results. Isn’t it
iW«w- ng eVK i en f :e of the great merit of mv
instruction—of the wonderful benefits you
can secure also? J
handsomely illustrated 48-page Booklet.
7°™ it gives full information, cost of tuition
Australian penny stamps for postage.
“Health and Strength
etc. Please send three
REG. L. BARER.
2 ~4 BELMONT BUILDINGS, SYDNEY.
RECIPROCATE.
GIVE A NEW
YEAR’S GIFT
Why not reciprocate
and give your friend a
New Year’s Gift?
And what would be
better or more ap-
preciated than a box of
Cigars, or a Pipe,
Cigar Case, or some
article of this nature?
My catalog, entitled
a “Discriminating
Smokers’ Guide” illus-
trates Cigars, Cigar-
ettes, and Pipes, etc.,
and would enable you
to make a satisfactory
selection. A copy of
same will be sent free
on request.
My CARLTON
CLUB Cigars
are mild, yet full of
flavor. They are
special value, too. In
Cabinet boxes of 50’s,
215.; 25’s, 10/6.
Postage on 25 Box in
N.S.W. 6d. Interstate
8(1.
Actual Size.
A. M. SOLOMON,
CIQAR EXPERT,
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
■34
; v
i
o
“Keep Smiling.
In other words .*
-£hell
BTAI NAB L E
EVER.YWHEPF
SAFETY GAS
MACHINES
Will Vaporise Benzine,
Motor Spirits or Benzoline
Distributing Agencies now being
considered in first instance.
APPLY—
R. 5. PAPPRILL,
CONSULTING
ENGINEER,
BRISBANE.
The Shoe for the Business Man
is the RIGNEY Shoe, because it has such a
smart and distinctive appearance.
No business man can afford to be indifferent
about his footwear, and that is why most
business men wear the RIGNEY Shoe.
The illustration shows a Choice Russian
Calf Bal., Close Welfs, Light Sole, Guaran-
teed Hand Sewn. One of the famous
“Bostock’s” (English Made) Shoes —very
exclusive shape—a shoe for gentlemen.
Price - 35/-
Postage 9d. extra.
Write for our Catalog.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.,
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
A.ll Athletes
Use
BOSISTO’S
“PARROT
BRAND *•
EUCALYPTUS OIL.
V.
Bosisto's “ Parrot Brand ” Eucalyptus Oil,
the Famed Remedy for Rheumatism, Sprains,
.Bruises, Wounds, Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis
V
rp
\
PrAv>Mp
a
POST YOUR ORDERS
(no matter how far from
us you are) for your every
need in the way of Sum-
mer Wear. What you ask
for will reach you as fast
as the mail can bring it.
Distance makes no differ-
ence as to cost.
WE PAY FREIGHT
to any part of the Com-
monwealth on practically
everything we sell—and
E6e
“LINCOLN-STUART”
GUARANTEE
provides perfect Purse Pro-
tection, stipulating as it
does that if you are not
satisfied with the goods we
supply, you can return
them at our expense, and
have the purchase-money
refunded in full.
Tropical Underwear
In materials and manufacture the two styles of under-
wear here illustrated are perfectly suited for Aus-
tralian Summer wear. Each in its own way is
perfect. It is simply a matter of your personal
preference as to which you buy.
“WELFIT” INDIAN
GAUZE.
Made by the best pro-
cesses known, in Finest
White Indian Gauze,
unshrinkable, cool and
comfortable —in sizes
to suit any figure no
matter how big or
how small.
SINGLETS 3/6
PANTS 4/6
“ AERTEX ”
CELLULAR.
In Fine White Cotton
—absorbent but Self-
ventilating and Quick-
drying, keep the skin
dry and cool. Guaran-
teed unshrinkable. Ser-
vice a certainty.
SINGLETS 47-
KNEE PANTS 4/6
KNEE-LENGTH
COMBS 7/6
"Write for Catalog'.
LINCOLN, STUART 8 CO.
Pty., Ltd.,
" Mail-Order Outfitters,” 244-254 FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE.


JEWELLERY
and PLATE at
HALF-PRICE.
THE MOST ASTOUNDING OFFER EVER
MADE TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC.
Owing to the death of the senior
partner, the immense stock of
FLAVELLE, ROBERTS g SANREY LTD.
is being disposed of at
HALF ITS MARKED PRICES.
The same High Standard of Quality is Main-
tained which secured for the Firm extensive
Royal I’atronage and Three Grand Prizes at the
Franco-British Exhibition, London.
The Chance of a Lifetime to secure
Wedding Presents and
Birthday Presents.
ENTREE DISHES.
Sterling Silver Plate on Nickel Silver, Best
Quality Manufactured, and the Most Useful
Articles in any Household, Beaded or Fancy
Edge, as illustrated, £3; now £l/107-
Other Designs, marked at £3/3/-, £3/10/-, £4,
£4/15/-, £6, £7.
Sale Price: £l/11/6, £l/15/-, £2,
£2/7/6, £3, £3/10/-
TEAPOTS.
Sterling Silver Plate on Nickel Silver, as illus-
trated, marked £l/10/-; Sale Price, 157-
Other Designs, marked £l/14/-, £l/16/-,
£l/18/-, £2, £2/10/-, £3, £3/14/-
Sale Price: 17/-, 18/-, 19/-, €l, €l/5/-,
€l/10/-, €l/17/-
S 3
IS
's'
STERLING SILVER PHOTO.
FRAMES.
Plain Dpsigp, with Fumpd Oak Back.
13 in. x BJin.
11 Jin x 7 Jin.
9Jin. x 7 in.
9jin. x 4jin.
8 in. x sJin.
7firi. x 3fiij.
Marked.
£5
£4/6/-
£3/12/
£2/5/-
£2/3/-
£l/15/
gale Price,
£2/10/-
£2/3/-
£l/16/-
£l/2/6
£l/1 / 6
17/6
§ Actual Size.
GOLD WATCH WRISTLETS.
Charming pesigns in Ehglish-made Gold Ex-
panding Bracelets, with highest-grade Swiss Lever
moverpents:—
9ct—Marked Price: £lO/10/-. Sale Price:
£5/5/-
15ct. —Marked Price: £l6, £lB. Sale Price:
£B, £9.
Flavelle, Roberts &
San key Ltd.,
150 Queen Street, BRISBANE.
East Street, ROCKHAMPTON.
Molesworth Street, LISMORE.
Always Hot!
You need not suffer
like this. Kriischen
Salts provide the remedy
by the simplest of all
means —by putting you
in first class condition.
The human body is so
constituted that it can
endure all the changes
of temperature ever ex-
perienced in any part of
the Dominion without
distress —if it is healthy.
The man who is con-
tinually getting too hot
is not healthy and should
at once set about mak-
ing himself so.
A very common mis-
take is to suppose that
only the violently ath-
letic people who take
constant hard exercise
can enjoy the blessing
of good health.
Muscular exercise is
only one way —and not
always the best —of
getting health.
Every man and
woman can get fit and
keep fit by gently and
systematically cleansing
the system while at the
same time bracing and
stimulating it to proper
normal activity.
For this purpose take
half a teaspoonful of
Kriischen Salts in a
tumbler of hot water
every morning when
you rise.
Not a Fizzy Drink.
Kriischen Salts are not
gaseous or effervescent, so
that you may take them with-
out the least fear of flatulence.
Many people experience dis-
comfort after drinking any
aerated mixture. Everyone can
take Kriischen Salts without
any unpleasant sensation what-
ever.
Kriischen Salts dispel all
traces of uric acid from the
system and bring a strong
sense of vitality and well-being.
Slackness and depression dis-
appear and in their stead come
vigour and cheerfulness, fresh-
ness and energy, and the keen
delight of perfect mental and
bodily health.
Kriischen Salts.
Kriischen Salts are a sure
but gentle aperient. By re-
moving the uric acid from the
system they speedily and per-
manently drive away Gout,
Rheumatism, Lumbago, Liver
and Kidney troubles, Eczema
and Indigestion.
Kriischen Salts are not
laxative nor weakening but act
as a splendid tonic.
The body frequently fails to
supply itself with the necessary
quantities of Sodium, Mag-
nesium and Potassium Salts
which it should take from the
food it receives. Kruschen
Salts remedy all such defects
and help to build up sound,
healthy tissue.
r
chen
Salts
LIEBIG’S
ANALYSIS :
SODASULPH.
SODA CHLORID.
SODA PHOSPH.
MAGNES. SULPH.
MAGNES. CHLOR.
POTAS. SULPH.
POTAS. CHLORID.
Of all good chemists, grocers,
and stores throughout Australia,
Wholesale Distributing Agents :
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR,
287-289, Clarence Street,
Sydney.
Sole Proprietors:
E. GRIFFITH HUGHES
(KRUSCHEN) LTD.,
68, Deansgate Arcade, Manchester, England.
ONE SIZE.
ONE TRICE.
2/-
Per Bottle.
The Inky Way.
Anybody who desires better value than two nips
for one shilling will find it in Copy, the Christmas
number of the Australian Journalists’ Association’s
trade paper, The Journalist. It contains 114 pages
of articles, stories, verses and illustrations
by most of the best writers and black-
and-white artists in the Commonwealth, in-
cluding Bedford, David McKee Wright, John
Sandes, W. M. Hughes, “Dryblower” Murphy, P. J.
Nolan, C. A. Jeffries, B. S. B. Cook, “Kodak,” Lewis
Deer, A. L. Brewer, H. M. Green, Ruby Davies, J. H.
Ramsay, Farmer Whyte, Isabelle Ramsay, “Steele
Rudd,” “Hop,” D. H. Souter, Claude Marquet, Will
Donald, Ure Smith, Lionel Lindsay, Harry Julius and
Frank Jessup. As a scheme for giving the journal-
istic and artistic school in Australia a chance to
make holiday in print it is a notable start. *
W. M. Hughes, ex-Atcorney-General, writes the
story of the first Labor newspaper he had anything
to do with in N. S. Wales (the story is in Copy, the
Christmas publication of the Australian Journalists
Association). “Put briefly,” says Hughes, “the idea
was to combat and, peradventure, overthrow the
hordes of Capitalism, spread enlightenment through-
out the Universe, awaken the slumbering masses, and
substitute for the effete and rotten existing social
system a new order... .Nobody on the paper was
ever paid. It was a most extraordinary and most
disquieting fact, but current coin of the realm, or
any other negotiable coin, was rarely ever seen in our
office. In the early days of the journal this excited
little comment, but as the circulation bounded up,
and still gold and silver avoided us as though we had
the pestilence, a thick gloom settled heavily upon us
all One of She staff was an Italian. He was an
Anarchist, and bombs with him were the one remedy
for all evils. He was the most kindly-natured soul
I have ever met, and I am persuaded he would not
have known a bomb from a banana, and he would
not have hurt a fly.” With no money coming in, the
new apostles took payment in kind. “By the process
of exhaustion, corn beef and damaged apples fell to
our lot. We ate both when we could get them, but,
believe me, they make a rotten diet for a man who
has to hurl himself against the massed forces of
Capitalism,,,. The myrmidons of Capital began to
assail us after about the sixth issue. A base caitiff
sought to seize our poor plant, his pretext for this
dastardly attempt being that our bill for paper was
overdue. Hard on his heels came another, cackling
about ink supplied and not paid for.” When the
end came, “the editor never quite recovered from
the shock, and even now edits a highly-respectable
and law-abiding journal. Some of the staff, driven
by despair, stood for Parliament, and were returned.”
Amongst them were Hughes and W, A, Holman.
From a reporters’ room in London: —When public
men have said something they are sorry for some
of them have a habit of alleging that they have “not
been accurately reported” ; and the English National
Union of Journalists has got tired of it. So,
when Lord Wolmer, M.P., did it, the secretary of
the Union wrote to him and pointed out that two
experienced reporters, unknown to each other and
acting independently, took down the disputed pas-
sage, and their printed renorts were literally iden-
tical. “The curious result follows that if your
Lordship is right, the reporters not only omitted
important words, but actually turned a plural pro-
noun into a singular one three times over. Such an
aberration would be hard to explain if confined to
one reporter. Shared by two reporters acting inde-
pendently of each other, it cannot be explained at
all, except on the assumption that it never hap-
pened.” The upshot of this correspondence was
that Lord Wolmer confessed that it did not happen.
The sec. of the N.U.J. calls this too-common sub-
terfuge “a mean and shabby practice,” and adds,
“The Union is at present considering whether it is
not possible to secure some legal protection.”
Meantime, whenever occasion arises, it is going to
take the same steps that it took in this case to
nail down a particularly contemptible sort of lie.
“Melb ”: Apropos the early days of the Herald.
after the ex-bricklayer had bought it from David
Syme (B. 4/12/’l3). The editor, Dr. Hickson, was
a- curiosity. Besides being a man of overpowering
dignity, he was full of fads. Among other things
he was a ferocious teetotaller, and issued a pamphlet
“Will the Coming Man Drink Wine?” He proved
conclusively that by this year 1913 no alcohol
would be consumed on earth. Evidently he made
no converts at home, for his wife and two daughters
kept the Chancery Lane Hotel, Melbourne, after his
death. The daughters also appeared for a brief
period at the Theatre Royal. Graham Berry was
hard up at the time when Hickson was editor of
the Herald and Forsyth chief proprietor, and he
did some wbrk for them. He even edited the paper
for a little while —after he had performed the same
service for Tait’s Collingwood Observer. But, like
Gambetta and nearly all eminent noliticians or
authors, Berry had not the journalist’s instinct.
Even as proprietor of the Geelong Advertiser he was
a nuisance to the staff. Oratory doe's not chime
in with writing. Greeley, of the New York
Tribune, was inferior as a news man to Ben-
nett, of the N. Y. Herald. Even a Carlyle or
Macaulay could not write up a newspaper. And
Dickens failed. Berry’s idea was that the Melbourne
Herald depended on a large number of short politi-
cal articles, nossiblv 13, which he would rip off
every day. Meanwhile there was no news: and there
is nothing else of much value to a newspaper.
A TALE OF TOUTIHE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Testimonials for these pills had to be put in a
literary style. If they were put in the illiterate
way they were given, people would not read them.
—Sydney law report.
I read —and, as I read, the tears
Splashed on the printed sheet.
To think you’d spent ten frightful years
Just dying on your feet....
The picture showed you bent with pain—
One hand pressed to your head ;
You seemed too wasted to regain
The health that long had fled.
I read your symptoms one by one,
And saw your ills increase,
Until I longed to get a gun
And give you lasting peace.
I read and sighed as you were racked
For nearly half a page ;
By everything you were attacked—
It put me in a rage.
It seemed insanely wrong that you
Should ache and throb and twitch.
I swore when parts of you went blue
And when you got the itch.
But when you fell to ruins quite,
And doctors gathered round
To gaze upon the awful sight,
My grief I could not sound....
Then suddenly, athwart the dark,
A ray of hope !.... A gleam !
A twinkling advertising spark—
“ Try Pudger’s Purple Cream 1”
You tried a pot—a little one
Upon your azure leg.
It did you good! The fight begun,
You went and bought a keg.
That was the end of grief and pain.
Life was a rose-lit dream
When you became a man again
Through “Pudger’s Purple Cream.”
’Twas but an ordinary “case,”
But, told with Milton’s art,
It streaked with scalding tears my face
And nearly broke my heart.
N.S.W.
A SUFFERER FOR YEARS.


One of fifty-six
Remote Control
Panels, recently
manufactured for
a large Railway,
Power & Light-
ing Company,
pf j*
m
Wr
lit!!
ff'
!&*
Standard method
of running
small wiring
on a G.E.
Switchboard.
A TYPICAL G.E. CO. (U.S.A.) SWITCHBOARD.
Thousands of these Switchboards are in use at the present moment, each one fully repaying its cost, in the elimination of breakdowns and repair expenses.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC CO.,
217 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
QUEEN and LITTLE COLLINS STREETS, MELBOURNE.
Representing—General Electric Co. (U.S.A.); British Thomson-Houston Co. (England).
K
The TradfrMarfa oF TheTraT&est Tt/eefpfeal Tfanu/^iefa/^e/ 3 in ff?e IVor/d.
f'Ringing for More!'
yy
M
/A
Bird’s
Custard
stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess.
Has stood the test of time
L Over 70 years ’ success. A
XMAS.
Diamonds
Reduced
Enormously.
Whole Pearl and
Diamonds, set in
Platinum, £l5.
5 Choice Diamonds,
set in Platinum,
£lO/10/-
Fine Whole Pearl
and Diamonds, set
in Platinum,
£25.
Two years ago we took on a Sole Agency, calling for an enormous output of Diamonds, and, with a
view to making the turnover, we offered them at merely a broker’s commission on the Antwerp
Cutters’ Cost.
It barely paid us the first year, the second year the sales were so great it did better, and we are
trying it for another year.
We only Stock the Best Grades of Diamonds, but Our Prices for these are THE LOWEST.
There is No Duty on Diamonds.
FAIRFAX &. ROBERTA Ltd
Plain Figures
Cash Only.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
THE LONE HAND
for GOOD STORIES 8 BRIGHT ARTICLES.
price: sixpence.
PILE PILLS.
PERMANENT CURE.
Established 1891.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS.
Non-aperient. A sure and speedy cure for all cases
of Internal and External Piles.
Have Cured Thousands of Cases, some after suffering
over 40 years.
Made and sold by ANDREW MURPHY, WOY
WOY (N.S.W.), Sole Proprietor.
PRICE 3/- PER BOX, or a COURSE
of 8 BOXES £l, Post Free.
On Sale at all Druggists, Chemists and Store-
lceepers throughout the States.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austra-
lasian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the offices, 115 High llol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
'PIIE Australian Magazine—THE LON il
HAND. The National Monthly. Price. 6(1,
• • •
We are SOLE AGENTS for ...
Brown, Boveri O. Co. Ltd.
mm
mm
.
mm
Tv
'
s
[mm
Brown, Boveri-Parsons Impuise-reaction Turbine of 28,000 h.p. at
1000 r.p.m., for direct coupling to a three-phase alternator
of 21,000 k.v.a.
LEADING SPECIALITIES
Live Steam, Mixed Pressure and Exhaust Steam Turbines.
Turbo-Dynamos and Turbo-Alternators, in the larges sizes
and for any pressure.
Single and Polyphase Transformers, and Switchgear for any
output, and for pressures up to GO,OOO volts.
Hydro-Electric Generators, Long Distance Power Transmission
and Railway work.
Turbo-Gas Blowers and Exhausters.
Turbo-Compressors for heavy duty.
Pump Motors (horizontal and vertical) for Mining Work, Elec-
trical Haulage and Winding Plant, etc.
Special Motors for driving Textile Machinery, Paper-making
Machinery, Agricultural Plant, etc.
Regulating Transformers, Induction Regulators and Automatic
Pressure Regulators.
Phase Compensators and Speed Regulating Sets for large
induction motors.
Electric Train Lighting Equipments.
Australian Representatives—
HAES & EGGERS LTD 163 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.


STEWART DAWSON’S
Beautiful Gift Necßlets,
These Necklets are of fine design and faithful workmanship.
They represent the fullest value, because we deal with you direct as
Manufacturers, and avoid all middle profits. Choose your gift from
the Necklets illustrated or described below. It will mean year-long
pleasure to the recipient.
WE PAY
POSTAGE
TO ANY
ADDRESS.
2 **
OPEN TILL
10 O’CLOCK
RID A Y
I G H T S.
50/-
C 6557. —Fine Amethyst
or Garnet and Pearl set
Necklet.
501-
Kl 59 —Fine Coral and Pearl Drop, 9ct. Gold Necklet, in case 63/-
C 9732. —-Fine Pearl and Pink Cameo, set 9ct. Gold Necklet.. 55/-
C4332.—Fine Pearl and Garnet or Amethyst, set 9ct. Gold
Necklet 90/-
•T 3866. —Handsome Peridot and Pearl, set 9ct. Gold Necklet. . 80/-
Strand Corner, 412 George St., Sydney.
AUSTRALIA: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND: Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin.
LONDON : 73 to 81 Regeht Street, W.; and 19 to 21 Hatton Garden. E.C.
,73/G R
A Christmas Present that will give More Pleasure
to a Greater Number and for a Longer Time
will be secured by the money invested in a
REXOPHONE
Talking; Machine
than by the same
amount of money spent in
ANY OTHER WAY.
m'li
ir
1
70A
The great
and regular
increase in
the sale of
Rexophones emphasises the ex-
cellence of these machines.
From the popular “Bute,” at
37/6, to the “York,” at £B,
they represent Quality and Value. It is not alone
the price that makes the Rexophone attractive.
The tone it possesses, the vast amount of per-
— manent satisfaction, it gives—make it a lasting
pleasure. For the reproduction of the human voice or instrumental
music, the Rexophone is now universally acknowledged to be the best
in Australia. Clear, Mellow, Powerful, and with a freedom from the
defects of earlier instruments of this class, Rexophones make ideal
instruments for the home. Rexophone Records excel all others in perfection of
recording, quality of manufacture, and durability. We invite comparison with any
other make at any price.
Special New Christmas REXOPHONE RECORDS.
10=inch Doub!e=Sided. Price 2/6 each.
By the CATHEDRAL QUARTETTE.
Eight magnificent New Selections by our unrivalled Cathedral Quartette, specially
recorded for us for Christmas- —better and brighter than ever —universally admitted
to be the best sacred records ever made —on any catalogue—at any price.
5650
5649
J Hark the Herald Angels Sing
I Christians Awake
fWhile Shepherds Watched their
-t Flocks by Night
t Jerusalem the Golden
5647
5646
[ Memories of Galilee
[The Life-Boat
1 I will sing the Wondrous Story
) 1 am Praying for You
WRITE FOR OUR COMPLETE CATALOGUE.
Jacßson &. Macdonald
457 Kent Street (Corner Druitt Street), Sydney.
5?
The KLAXON is the best-made, best-
known, automobile warning signal. It
is used by over 200,000 motorists —in
every country where the motor car is
known. Every instrument bears a guar-
antee of permanent satisfaction.
FURTHER information may be ad .
by addressing any of tbe following
Australian stockists of tbe Klaxon -
Sydney : Bennett (Bb Wood, L»td.
Melbourne: Bennett, Wood, Roche
pty.. Ltd. Perth : Armstrong Cycle
no. Motor Agency. Melbourne:
Duncan (3b Co. Pty., Ltd. Launces-
ton : Aim King. Adelaide: Murray
Aunger. Brisbane: E. G. Eager (Sl*
Son, Ltd.
KLAXON
“&he. Public Safety Signal
The note of the Klaxon is purposely harsh and unpleasant.
It is a WARNING signal. It expresses DANGER— to insure SAFETY.
Previous to the advent of the Klaxon,
scientific analysis of the sound properties nec-
essary to produce a note of warning, had never
been considered.
Makers of so called warning signals had ig-
nored entirely the psychological fad; that all
true warning sounds—-while they may differ
widely in other respects—must possess one es-
sential characteristic: they must be harsh, un-
tuneful, unpleasant—repellant, rather than at-
tractive.
Nature’s warning cry—since the world be-
gan—has been a discord. The warning growl
of a dog, the cry of a fowl that voices danger,
the warning snarl of a wild beast, are not pleas-
ant nor musical.
All humans—from babyhood on—all ani-
mals use and understand this same discordant
warning.
Try it on the dog; try to call him to you by
shouting in a loud, harsh, warning voice; try
to send him away by employing sweet musical
sounds.
A musical sound made by an automobile tells
a falsehood to a pedestrian whom it is intend"
ed to warn. It indicates that there is no danger,
when danger is most imminent.
The note of the Klaxon is a true warning
note. It is not pleasant to hear; but it at once
expresses—and is instinctively understood as
meaning—DAN GER.
The note of the Klaxon cuts through every
other noise. It is heard and is heeded—with"
out confusion, without hesitation. It warns on
the instant-—in time.
The KLAXONET and Klaxet are smaller
Klaxons, opertaing on the same principle and
producing notes higher in pitch, lower in vo"
ume. Designed for small cars and runabouts.
An
times
adequate warning signal is necessary to insure safety; but its use should be restricted to
when it is necessary—as a warning of danger. The law should stop unnecessary noise.
Sales Mgr.
Factory, Newarß, N.J*
LOVELL-McCONNELL MFG. CO., Export Office: 47 Broadway, New York, U.S.A. J. E. Sitterley, Foreign


The Cult of Beauty
A RARE COLLECTION OF BEAUTY
HINTS FROM NEAR AND FAR.—
HOME RECIPES.
How to Have Thick and
Pretty Hair.
“Home Talents.”
Soaps and artificial shampoos ruin many beautiful
heads of hair. Pew people know that a teaspoonful
of good stallax dissolved in a cup of hot water has
a natural affinity for the hair and makes the most
delightful shampoo imaginable. It leaves the hair
brilliant, soft and wavy, cleanses the scalp com-
pletely and greatly stimulates the hair growth. The
only drawback is that stallax seems rather expensive.
It comes to the chemist only in sealed packages,
which retail at half a crown. However, as this is
sufficient for 25 or 30 shampoos, it really works out
very cheaply in the end. *** For an actual hair-grower
nothing equals pure boranium. It is quite harmless,
and sets the hair roots tingling with new life. *** The
use of rouge is almost always obvious, but powdered
colliandum gives a perfectly natural color and defies
detection.
To Kill Roots of Superfluous
Hair.
“Home Science.”
Women annoyed with disfiguring growths of super-
fluous hair wish to know not merely how to tem-
porarily remove the hair, but how to kill the hair
roots permanently. For this purpose pure powdered
pheminol may be applied directly to the objectionable
hair growth. The recommended treatment is designed
not only to instantly remove the hair, but also to
actually kill the roots so that the growth will not
return. About an ounce of pheminol, obtainable
from the chemist, should be sufficient. *** For com-
plexions inclined to be oily many smart women are
now using just the natural allacite of orange blos-
soms. It is perfectly harmless, makes a capital
greaseless cream which holds the powder perfectly
and does not encouraee the growth of hair. *** Dis-
agreeable body odors can be instantly neutralised by
the occasional application of a little powdered
(white) pergol to the affected surfaces.
Using Oxygen for the
Complexion.
“Chemistry at Home.”
The well-known characteristics of oxygen may be
effectively applied to the renovation of the com-
plexion. Mercolised wax, such as may be found at
any chemists, contains oxygen which is released
directly the wax comes in contact with the skin.
Oxygen consumes waste matter in the body, but does
not affect healthy tissues at all. Therefore, it
attacks and removes the deadened waste accumula-
tions on the skin which show in the disfiguring form
of sallowness, moth patches and a general appear-
ance of lifelessness. The fresh young skin which
has been obscured by this disfiguring veil of waste
matter is thus allowed to show forth in all its
healthy beauty. The mercolised wax is absolutely
harmless, and indeed very beneficial to the skin. *** To
bring a natural red color to the lips, rub them with
a soft stick of prolactum. t *** For tired, hot or per-
spiring feet use a teaspoonful of powdered onalite in
a foot bath.
Emergency Complexions.
“Novel Recipes.”
Even a complexion which is hopelessly dull or
greasy can be made beautiful in a moment by a
perfectly harmless home recipe. If you have no
cleminite in the house, get about an ounce from
your chemist, and add only enough water to dis-
solve it. Apply a little to the face with the finger
tips. The process defies detection, and the result
is an immediate appearance of velvety, youthful
“bloom,” which every woman desires. The effect
will last all day under the most trying conditions,
indoors or out, and renders powdering quite un-
necessary. This simple substance is also very good
for the skin, and no possible harm can come from its
regular use. *** To make the eyelashes grow long, dark
and curling, apply a little mennaline with the finger
tips occasionally." It is absolutely harmless, and
beautifies the eyebrows as well. *** Pilenta soap is the
most satisfactory for all complexions. It even works
well in cold or hard water.
Marie
Permanent
Hair
Stain
(Registered).
BE YOUTHFUL EVER!
This well-known and reliable Permanent Stain has
given complete satisfaction to thousands of men
and women throughout Australia who have used it
on hair, moustache and beard. Not one failure.
Unaffected by surfing, tonics, washing or wearing.
Non-injurious to the most delicate hair or skin.
Impossible to go patchy. Simple to apply. Light
Brown, Medium Brown, Dark Brown and Black.
PRICE 10/6, 6d. postage (12 months’ supply,).
Money returned if proved unsatisfactory. All
Toilet Requisites stocked. Send me your hairwork.
One and Only Address:
MARIE VAN BRAKKEL,
46 CABTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
(Opposite Hotel Australia).
No connection with any other firm trading under
the name of Van Brakkel. (Register all letters ).
A SMILE OF SATISFACTION
RPOOJJS
os'saw
MADE FROM LEMONS ONLY
OVER 1000 TONS OF LEMONS
have been used in the manufacture
of “ Lemos,** and it 1 is now sold almost
all over the world.
I help you to live on time
You’ll call me an alarm clock, but
people who have used me call me
“ TJte Big Watch," for I keep watch-
time. My bell really isn’t an “alarm”
either, for it doesn’t startle you. -
I’ve a mellow, deep-toned, cheerful
voice. It arouses you promptly but
gradually with a “ Good morning,
it's breakfast-time" sort of sound.
I am really two alarms in one, a
long alarm ringing for 5 minutes
without interruption, an intermittent
alarm ringing for 10 minutes at half-
minute intervals; you can shut me
off whenever you please.
I must be watch-accurate as a
time-keeper or they won’t let me
leave the factory. They make me
run six solid days and nights with-
out varying two minutes. If I do
vary —back I go to the adjusters.
I look lilpe a watch, act like a
watch, and in many respects am
built like a watch.
The heart of your watch is the
escapement —the part that ticks and
on which all its timekeeping quality
depends. Look at your watch. Its
escapement is governed by the bal-
ance wheel and the hairspring in
exactly the same way as my escape-
ment is governed.
That’s why I’m a timekeeper.
Most alarm clocks tick slowly and
heavily. I tick lightly, evenly, and
fast —like a watch.
An inner casing of steel makes me
strong and keeps out the dust. That’s
why I stay a timekeeper for years.
I am 7 inches tall, I'm massive,
well poised and triple plated. My
face is frank, open, easy to read— my
keys large, strong, easy to wind. If
you have me oiled every other year
there is no telling how long I will last.
I am made in La Salle, Illinois,
U.S.A., by Westclox. My price is
12/6, postage 1/- extra. If you can-
not find me in your town, send
a money order to my makers’
Australian office, Westclox, 63 Pitt
Street, Sydney, and they will
have the nearest jeweller forward
me to you at once.
BIG BEN
Williams’ Holder Top
Shaving Stick.
This is the good old
Shaving Stick known to
every gentleman
in Australia, but
now presented in
a new and attrac-
tive form, greatly
enhancing it s
convenience and
economy.
OFfAT
m
ffiLIAMS
Your cnemist will be glad
to show it to you.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALE, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
SWAN PEN >
»v\
&
m
U
m
SWAN
Wlhh KtEP VOW WP
TO YOUR WORK.
'THE perfect tempering- of the gold nib,
the smooth and lasting iridium point,
imparting a velvet touch—and the "ladder "
feed that ensures an even flow of ink
always—these features have popularised the
"Swan" Fountpen. Why not get a "Swan"
Fountpen and secure immunity from all
writing troubles? ,
Of all Stationers and Jewellers.
New Catalogue Free on request.
MABIE, TODD & CO.,
79 & 80 High Holborn, London, England.
Australasian Branch —
J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings,
255 a George Street, SYDNEY.
The Secret of the “ Swan's " Popularity lies in this part—
THE WORKING END.
E. J. Carroll tells how Graham Moffatt got his
chance with “Bunty Pulls the Strings” in London.
Carroll, who will tour the “Bunty” co. through
Australasia, had the information at first-hand from
the author and producer when he (Carroll) was re-
cently in London. Moffatt, prior to 1911, was play-
ing sketches in Scotland, and trying hard to get a
chance with his since-successfuE piece. He pestered
the London managers until Cyril Maude agreed to
help him. “I don’t think this dialect thing will
go,” said Maude: “but as you are so sanguine about
it, I’ll let you have the theatre for a matinCe, and
I’ll get all my friends and the metropolitan press-
gang to come along. You get your cast and be ready.”
Moffatt had little money, but he got some people and
borrowed some wardrobe. What followed is old his-
tory now. To date Moffatt is said to have made
£150,000 out of the piece.
“Maeko”: The attention paid to' the comfort of
the people on the stage nowadays strikes one who
was a humble performer in the ’Bo’s. In the Theatre
Royal, Melbourne, I was one of the shivering fairies
in the original production of “lolanthe.” The time
was midwinter, and our dress a miserable wisp
of liberty silk, and a scanty underskirt which we
were not allowed to supplement with an extra petti-
coat. Occasionally we braved the wrath of Emmie
Nathan, and got into a bit of flannel, but it meant
a fine if we were discovered. I can’t remember if
jaeger was invented in those days; at any rate, it
would have been impossible to wear much of it, as
our bodices were extremely decollete, and one leg
was partly shown in the silk stocking. Unforgettable
was the vast stage, and the wind whistling round it,
and tearing through from an enormous property-
room, where on the hottest summer day it was as
cool as a vault. I think it had a door, but I never
saw it closed. When Mrs. Brough (the Fairy Queen)
delivered the line, “And your legs shall be our
peculiar care,” our business was to stand on one
limb with our wands extended towards Strephon.
Often we only managed to keep the poise by touch-
ing our immediate neighbor. There were no fires
or stoves in the drpSteing-rooms, but the gaslighting
kept the apartments so hot that when we “went on” or
stood round in the. draughty entrances waiting for
our cue we shivered. One consolation —the principals
had to rough it with us. Even our Nellie Stewart had
an ill-ventilated room, without a fireplace. How
we used to pray for an opera with lots of march-
ing, dancing and movement to enable us keep our
chattering teeth still! “lolanthe” was so quiet
that we never got warm. A few months ago “Within
the Law” was on, and I had business on the stage
of the old theatre. The contrast ! Warmth and
comfort .everywhere. Electric radiators round the
stage. Doors within doors, shutting out any possi-
ble draught, and swinging and sliding noiselessly,
from the same old property-room, exits and stage
boxes. And bright, warm dressing-rooms. Under
these conditions the present-day pro. should be con-
tent with half the salary we got—though, as a
matter of fact, he (or she) get a great deal more.
“Gazer”: The blatant A.N.A. in Victoria an-
nounces the judges for its coming competitions. As
for years past, the music adjudicators are a German
and a genial money lender, also exotic, The latter
gentleman is an amateur. Music is his little diver-
sion. In giving the job to a man outside the
musical ranks, is the A.N.A. aware that within the
past 12 months two sterling musicians have been
driven to leave this city through inability to earn a
living wage?
The ordinary merry-go-round with its jangling
barrel-organ can move on for the prairie now that
Sydney had seen the “caroussel,” which is United
States French for the gorgeous rideabout at the
White City. C. Spencer (the picture man), who
holds a wad of shares in the new playground, had
the machine made at a cost of £6OOO ( £lOOO of it
for the organ) and there is not another so elaborate
in the world, unless the Lost Tribes have set it up.
It is fitted with something like 60 or 70 horses and
a number of chariots, the nags by an ingenious con-
trivance imitating a gallop as the contraption whizzes
round. The lighting decorations are a feature in
themselves. There are 13,000 electric lamps and
candelabra in the scheme, and these make the “car-
oussel” look the star item in the park. In fact, it
looks a whole constellation.
“J.F.H.” : London Daily Telegraph extends a
cordial greeting to Oscar Asche and Lily Brayton
“after a year and a half’s sojourning in foreign
parts.” The D.T. is a bad Imperialist. Australia
is not a foreign part. It is a theatrical suburb of
London. When Oscar left London 18 months ago
he “had reason to hope that by the time of his
return he would be the possessor of his own theatre;
but that expectation has not been realised.” So
Oscar and Lily are to take lodgings again, either at
the Queen’s or the Globe, where early in January
they will revive “Kismet.”
“K.C.”: Because he had had two or three songs of
his composition published, the girls in the boarding-
house thought he was the Whole Cake. So did he
until Henderson came. Henderson had never heard
of the song-maker, but the astounded girls soon put
that to rights. “Seen my new piece?” smirked the
insufferable composer across the table to Henderson
one evening at dinner. “No,” says the brute,
“where does she work?” The girls are not speaking
to Henderson yet.
“Locusr’: Saw “Hindle Wakes” in England lately.
It is mainly a series of conversations on the sex
question, not from the subtle problem standpoint, but
from the side of down-right utility. A factory girl
has a “week end” with her employer’s son, a young
man engaged to be married to another manufacturer’s
daughter. She is found out through pitching a
weak tale to account for her whereabouts; and her
scandalised parents say the young trifler must marry
her. His rich father, who had been a workman with
her dad, agrees; so does the young man ; so does
his fiancCe; so does everyone -except the “victim.”
She flatly refuses—says she doesn’t permanently love
him, and that she ain’t no victim ; that he was only
“just someone to have a bit of fun with.” Of course,
the young man is horrified, when she tells him that
he was for her merely what the average young man
thinks a casual girl is for him. “You’re a man, and
I was your little fancy,” she says. “Well, I’m a
woman, and you were my little fancy. You wouldn’t
prevent a woman enjoying herself as well as a man
if she takes it into her head?” He is terribly
shocked, and says: “It sounds so jolly immoral. I
never thought of a girl looking on a chap just like
that.” The girl is kicked out by her parents, re-
fuses aid from the rich manufacturer, and goes out
into the world with a declaration of independence
that she’s a Lancashire Lass, that as long as there
are weaving sheds in Lancashire she can earn enough
“brass” to keep her going, and that “so long as she
has to live her own life she doesn’t see why she
shouldn’t choose what it’s to be.” Shades of “East
Lynne” and “The Sign of the Cross”! What’s the
English stage coming to? Arp they going to bring
this to Australia? What do we keep Percy Hunter
in London for, I aek!
A FOOTLIGHT FRAGRANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. W. N. Miller, of Ohio, as the result of long
experiments in onion hybridisation, has succeeded in
raising an onion that is all flavor and no odor. It
has the flavor of the Bermuda onion and the hardi-
ness of the golden yellow, without a trace of the
odor of either.— Melb. meekly.
’Twas Tot who reeked of patchouli,
While Maisie is recalled by musk;
Frangipani brings to me
Kate and her kisses in the dusk!
But lo! the gentle onion means
Much more indeed of vanished bliss,
Recalling each full-flavored kiss
From damsels snatched behind the scenes i
I think of footlight charmers cute
Whene’er of onions I partake,
Each chorus girl the fragrant fruit
Devours, for her complexion’s sake.
But Science in its stern advance
The onion’s pungent smell would slay;
And, in this manner, take away
The scent of many an old romance!
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


Shipping.
P. and O. BRANCH SERVICE.
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Via MELBOURNE and ADELAIDE
Ballarat
WILOANNIA
"COMMONWEALTH
•tBERRIMA..
11,120
5,000
6,611
11,120
Hanson .. .. Jan. 10
Scott .. -• Let), 7
Hussy-Cooper .. Feb. 25
_ Mar. 21
♦Twin Screw. All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy,
f Passengers intending to sail per Berrima will
need to make immediate application for berths!
PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION AMIDSHIPa.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
LONDON.. !.. .. £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN &VNATAL, £l3 135., £l5 las. & £u ins.
Tickets for , return, Ha Suez (second-class), P. and
O. Mail, from £49 19s. to £53 11s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent SL
Melbourne: John Sanderson & Co., 11l William St.
Adelaide and Fremantle Agents: Geo. Mills & Co.,
Lim'ted. -
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA-tEN GIAN D.
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, witn
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries,
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO.. Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydnki.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Minimum
Deposit.
ON
FRIDAY
EVENING
£5OO
Interest
Limit.
take a portion of your pay to the local
Branch of the Government Savings Bank.
Even 1/- will open an account and put you
on the road to saving.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
THE STATE SAVINGS INSTITUTION.
118 BRANCHES and OVER 500
AGENCIES IN THE STATE.
1 Per
2 Cent.
Interest on
First £3OO
This Bank has
no Agencies at
Post Offices.
Head Office :
11 Moore Strbht,
SYDNEY.
J. 11. Davies, S -cr-tary
Per
Cent.
On Excess
to £5OO
tits;
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £382,500.
Directors : Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY:
Hon. ROBERT PHILP, M.L.A. ; Hon. A. J.
TIIYNNF,, M.L.C.
General, Manager : J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 242 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
' AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian gank of Commerce
" LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. ..£2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,534
PAID-UP (30th June, 1913) ~.£.1,195,398
RESERVE FUND £25,000
lI3AD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS—Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man; George J. Sly. Esq., LL.D. ; Ciias. ,11.
Myles, Esq. ; Mark Sheldon, Esq ; Arthur S.
Barton, Esq. ; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales k Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. A. P, STEWART, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATION/.i BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid-Up 413,418 0 0
Reserve .. 142,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,609 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Jas. Munro, Esq. (Chairman) ; John
Cameron, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. ; Geo. Edw. Burning,
Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - - - - BBISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Aeents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Colonial fflutual Qife
assurance society limited
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £6,000,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable,'lndefeas-
il> Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts. C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith. K.C.. M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretari
Suiddms
ORDDEUTSCHER RLOYD, N.D.L.
IMPERIAL MAIL STEAMERS,
TO COLOMBO, SUEZ, NAPLES, GENOA, ALGIERS,
SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP. AND BREMEN.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Installation... *
All Steamers fitted with Laundry.
FARES TO LONDON: 1., £7l/10/-; 11., £4O;
111., £l5 to £l9. RETURN: 1., £lO7/5/-; 11.,
£00; 111., £3O/12/- to £37/16/
I.OIIMANN and CO., General Agents, 7 Bridge-st.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE.
♦ The largest and Finest Steamer trading between
Australia and San Francisco.
Around World and Around Pacific Tours.
Steamers stop 24 Hours at Papeete—the
“Pearl of the Pacific.”
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
Twin and Triple-screw Steamers.
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, about JAN. 17-
*CERAMIC, 18,500 tons, about FEB. 18
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, about, MARCH U.
MEDIC, 12,000 tons, about APRIL 4.
Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
Screw Turbine. Largest vessel to Australia.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Fares —Capetown or Durban, £l5 15 0t0£24 3 0
London . . . ■ 19 9 oto 30 0 0
New York. Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, etc., from 25 0 0
Melbourne .. .. .. > • • ■ • 1 10 0
PAMPHLETS AND ALL INFORMATION ON APPLI-
CATION. Luggage Received Only-on Day of Sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
■ Agents in Australia.
Australian Steamships Line
UNSURPASSED PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Fast Passenger Steamers
Sail as follows (circumstances permitting:)
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
♦CAIRNS
(♦Transhipping for
this and other -
Queensland ports). J
NORTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Dec. 27
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Dec. 31
Leaves Sydney Jan. 3
CANBERRA (8000 Tons). 1
Leases! Melbourne Jan. 7
Leaves Sydney Jan. 10
For
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and W.A. ports).
SOUTH.
GOOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Dec. 27
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Jan. 3
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc,, from
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
ISLAND TOURS
TO PAPUA
(via the Queensland Coast).
A Charming Combination
Tour of 33 Days.
S.S. “Matunga,”
JANUARY 5.
Brisbane, Cairns, Port
Moresby, Yule Island,
Samaral, Woodlark Island.
£2O.
The SOLOMONS
(For Rest and Health).
35 DAYS TRIP.
S.S. “ Mindini,”
JANUARY 10.
Brisbane, Tulagi, Aola, Gizo,
Faisi, Guadalcanal etc.
£2O.
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., Head Office, SYDNEY.
bank of new south
Established 1817-
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
DIRECTORS:
£3,500,000
£2,350,000
£3,500,000
£9.350 000
The lion. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, Kt., M.L.C.,
President.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richarc] Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normand McLaurin, ivt., M.L.C.
The Hon. James T. Walker
The Hon. Edmund W. Eosbery, C.M.G., M.L.G.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
' AUDITORS’ Alfred George Milson, Esq.; William Harrington Palmer, Esq.
Head Office George St . Sydney. London Office-29 Threadncedle St., EC.
336 Branches Sfid Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
n:'SaS-X*3£X» on, Foreign pincej DIRFCT »
TifETOiaD. Lett " &rfit c,rcui ?, r siaaar^TO i^aj H gg <>OT
The Commercial Banking Co.
ot Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-Up
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital
£1,750,000 0 0
1,030,000 0 0
1,750,000 0 0
£5,130,000 0 0
DIRECTORS :
George J. Cohen, Esq... - j. Chairman
Hon. 11. E. Kater, M-LfC. •• Deputy-Chairman,
-lion 11. Moses, M.L.C. 'A. J. Oxsi.ow Thompson, Esq.
- . Norman Shf.lt.ey, Esq.
Auditors: E S. Cape, Esq., and F. W. Hixson, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
11. 11. Massif..
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Bircliin - Lane.
Directors: F. 11. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. H. S.
Littleton ; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Qank of fieui Z ealand -
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING,
GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock
Preference Shares • • • • • •
OrdinarjjßShares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
up
Uncalled Capital .. ••
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits
£1,000,000
500,000
500.000
500,000
1,418,117
grants drafts
tain and Ireland,
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Bri-
and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-Up • • •• ••
Reserve Liability of Shareholders. .
Reserve Fund (invested in Govt. Stock). .
£538,307
159,054
76,500
£773,861
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Cen Man . F.dwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
rnHE Best Stories written in Australia
appear in The Lone Hand each month.
Price 6d.
A Whole Week Saved
SYDNEY to SAN FRANCISCO by the
Oceanic Steamship Company
10,000 tons, Twin Screw Steamers. 17 knots,
Classed 100 A 1 at British Lloyds.
CABINS DE LUXE with BATHS.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY- _
VENTURA .. j Jan. 10 I Mar. 7 | May 2 ! June 27
SONOMA ~ .. | Feb. 7 j April 4 j May 30 | July 25
The through trip to England can be accomplished
in 29 Days via Samoa, Honolulu, San Francisco.
RETURN TICKETS GOOD BY P. &0., ORIENT LINE,
N.D.L., N.Z .S. Co. and S. S. & A. Co.
Tel. 2282 City. Apply— 44 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
THE North Coast Steam
1 Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larlv to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
• RIVERS'; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S HAR-
BOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads—steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Bvron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £G.Bs. 6d. ; second-class rail and steerage
on steamer. £ 4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
Xaw Points
£- /nventorj
CAN 1 OBTAIN A PATENT?
The quickest wav to ascertain
this, WITHOUT KXI’JiNgE, is
to write to me describing your invention, encibsing
a small sketch where necessary. Nicety of drawing
is not essential; all that is necessary at first is to
give me YOUR IDEA.
I will at once inform you whether the idea is
patent-able, and, if so, give the necessary instructions
for further procedure.
Persons desirous of obtaining really reliable advice
or information regarding Patent matters are cordi-
ally invited to consult me personally or by letter. In
all cases a careful consideration of their plans, an
honest opinion, and a prompt reply may be
expected.
A. J. CALLINAN, Patent Attorney.
Citizens’ Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Shipping.
THEADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
T.S.S. W4RILDA (7713
tons), Wednesday,
Jan. 7 and Feb. 4.
‘T.S.S. WANDILLA(77BS
Ions), fitted Wireless
Telegraphy, Saturday,
Jan. 17 and Feb. 14.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
GUANTALA, Dec. 27.
INNAMINCKA, Jan. 3.
WOLLOWRA, Jan. 10.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO.. LTD..
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
Via FIJI AND HONOLULU.
CANADIAN - AUSTRALASIAN R.M.
LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
AROUND THE WORLD TOURS.
FIRST AND SECOND CLASS.
SAILINGS
*New triple-screw steamer, fitted with calrns-de-
luxe en suite, Nursery, Laundry, Electric Lifts, etc.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets-from
UNION STKAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents. 259 George Street, Sydney.
Federal & Shire Lines
ADELAIDE TO LONDON IN 34 DAYS
(VIA SUEZ CANAL).
T.S.S. ARGYLLSHIRE.
12,500 Tons.
BRISBANE
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
Saloon.
Fares to London: £4O t0,£45.
CAPTAIN CHICKEN.
JANUARY 28, 1914
FEBRUARY 4, 1914
FEBRUARY 10,1914
FEBRUARY 14, 1914
Third-Class.
£l6/16/- to £lB/18/-
Saloon fares from Brisbane, £2 extra.
Third-Class, £l/1/- extra.,. .
The Saloon accommodation consists of two-berth
and family cabins on the Upper Deck Amidships,
including Lounge and ; Smoke Room.
Third-Class accommodation situated almost Amid-
ships, consisting of two- and four-berth Cabins. Third-
Class passengers supplied with fresh provisions from
cool chambers throughout the voyage.
Electric Light throughout. Return- and Round-
Trip Tickets issued via Cape and/or - Suez Route..
Prepaid passages arranged. Fitted with Wireless
Telegraphy.
For further information, pamphlets, etc., apply to
TURNBULL MARTIN & CO., Brisbane.
BIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney.
McILWRAITH, McEACIIARN & CO. PTY., LTD.,
Melbourne and Newcastle.
ELDER SMITH & CO LTD., Adelaide.
H. JONES & CO LTD., Hobart.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“ llimaroa,” “Wimmera.”
“Riverina,” “Victoria
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH li ALL NEW ZEALAND I'Oltlh,
II 011 ART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And All Ports.
A.IhS.N.Go. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and *W*
T. 5.5. “ INDARRA ” ...10,000 ton
T.S.S. “ KANOWNA” ... 7000 tons
T.S.S. “ KYARRA” ... 7000 tons
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
T.S.S. “WYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
S.S. “ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraph^
Tourists and* seekers-after a beam trave l
the enjoyment of. seen y • s t e amers
hv the A.U.S.N. Line, as this company <*>!,.
possess all up-to-date arrangements eas y
venience and comfort, making . and
Ind pkasant. After first .port■.of ™ it h all
Second Saloon Tickets are intercha g ggc y , s
Interstate Cornpamts, d^. lth feSars on appljg;
dS, e . or 1 D.ily “
“S-awaf


Hotels, &c.
' ' '
ill'
' V
QEORGE HOTEL,
At. tiilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 13 - per day.
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated, with
iibundaiice of air and light. It is
tlie most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
■St
"iiifiiiPj
<ui ii'fl
TT
■miik
“'111"!!!!*,
iiuiiiiik.
iifiHimmiuJ
DOBS
(KILL COCKROACMES
PROCURABLE FROM:
George Gough & Son, Ltd., Bris-
bane.
H. H. Grotli & Co., Sydney.
London Pharmacy, Ipswich, Q’land
G. It. Smith, Townsville, ~
Lomas & Co., Warwick, „
Jack & Co., Dalby, „
Bryant & McLean, Roma, ~
E. S. Hale, Bundaberg, ~
Newbery & Shambler, Gympie,,,
Peak & Co., Toowoomba, ~
Williams, Ltd., Rockhampton, ~
Lamberts, Ltd., Mackay, ~
Alex. Campbell & Sons,
Maryborough, „
And all reliable Storekeepers throughout
Australasia.
Agents wanted in West & South Australia.
Write to GOUGH’S, BRISBANE.
Til 15 Australian Magazine—TJlE
HAND. Tlie National Monthly.
LONE
i’rice, Cd.
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFICE
Bank of BustvaUa
SYDNEY
Branches are open for the transaction of GENERAL BANKING BUSINESS at
New South Wales —Sydney. Federal Capital— Canberra. Victoria— Melbourne.
Queensland —Brisbane. Rockhampton, and Townsville. South Australia —Adelaide.
Western Australia— Perth. Tasmania— Hobart. And at 36-38 NEW BROAD ST., London.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, foreign places direct. Foreign bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of credit and circular notes issued to any part of the world. Bills negotiated or
forwarded for collection. Banking and Exchange business of every description transacted within
the Commonwealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Interest paid on fixed deposits.
„ SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.
Branches are open at 3 Moore Street. Sydney; 317 Collins Street. Melbourne; Queen Street,
Brisbane; Royal Exchange. 96 King William Street, Adelaide; St. George’s Terrace,
Perth; Elizabeth Street, Hobart; and Canberra (Federal Capital); and 1900 Agencies at
Post Offices which issue Money Orders in the Australian Commonwealth and Papua,
from 9 a.ni. to 5 p.m. daily, and noon Saturday.
All Branch Offices are open for deposits and withdrawals on Friday, 7 to 9 p.m.
Withdrawals on demand may be effected at any office within the Commonwealth.
V- Minimum Deposit. 3 % Rate of Interest on all Deposits up to £3OO.
JAMhs FELL, Deputy Governor. August, 1913. DENISON MILLER, Governor.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
i With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queens-
land olxers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars,
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TItOEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. JIESTON, Local Director.
.
\
5
‘‘l’m an Old Hand
at the Game.
And you can take it from me that
Danks’ is the place for the Tools in
our Line. You get the Most Reliable
Makes, the Most Up-to-date Ideas, and
you don’t have to pay too much for
them. I believe in the Best, and
Always Get Satisfaction in going
there.”
SO SAYS THE ENGINEER.
HERE’S A LINE OR TWO.
ELECTRICIANS’ INSULATED PLIERS.. 2/-
ELECTRICIANS’ INSULATED SCREW-
DRIVERS 1/4
TAPE MEASURES, in case, 66ft., from 1/6
EXTENSION HACK SAWS.
STOCKS AND DIES FROM BEST MAKERS.
FILES FOR SHARPENING METAL-CUTTING
SAWS.
WRENCHES FOR ALL PURPOSES.
TINMAN’S STAKES AND TUCK IRONS.
EMERY WHEELS, BRASS FITTINGS, TUBE AND PIPE OF ALL KINDS, etc., etc.
SOME BARGAINS IN LATHES.
John Danks & Son Propty., Ltd.,
324 Pitt Street, near Liverpool Street f Sydney .
Also at 391 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
An Attractive Appearance
is desired by every man, and a smart moustache adds materially to the
appearance.
For producing' a full growth of hair on the upper lip there is nothing like
CAPILLARINE.
It, forces the hair auickly and surely, without injuring the skin. It is
easily applied, and cannot be detected.
TRY A JAR, 10/6 POST FREE.
TheC.& A. Moustache Trainer, worn at night, shapes the moustache.
2/6, 3/6, 5/6, Post Free. Send for Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654
t
Abbey
Sboes
In every Abbey Shoe you get
STYLE that is correct, COM-
FORT that is permanent, WEAR
that is satisfactory; therefore, if ■
you want footwear satisfaction,-
buy the ABBEY SHOE.
The Boot illustrated is a patent
Golosh Bal. Dull Calf Leg. Perfor-
ated Golosh, 27/C, and 30/-
Also in Tan Willow Calf, 22/C,
25/- and 27/-
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Write for our Catalog.
ABBEY,
313 Georg'e Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
*
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘ARABIS’
Egyptian Henna before all others ; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive you. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardley on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.”
IMPORTANT TO FARMERS.
Reports in the daily papers indicate heaps of trouble from a comparatively new quarter, viz.,
THE RURAL WORKERS. Providing you have several stalwart sons to assist in the farming
operations you have little to fear, but to those not so fortunate we say
8.18231 S
|N.1345| i
Is positively the Farmers and Squatters’ best friend, as it does the work
of from 16 to 32 Farm Horses, with a minimum of expense and labor.
Bear in mind this Engine costs “nothing to feed” when it's not working .
it runs equally as well on Kerosene as Benzine .
it can be used in the Harvest Field without the slightest danger of Fire .
HUNDREDS OF OTHER GOOD REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD HAVE ONE.
WRITE FOR FURTHER PARTICULARS.
CASH or EASY TERMS.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO. LTD.
The Engineers’ Depot, 161 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Where the Best Engines are Sofd (not Kept in Stock).


“Onyx” Silk Sox
On the toes of every pair of socks made
by this firm is a little gold medallion, in-
scribed “Onyx.” That is the highest coinage
in the currency of Silk Sox. The values are
wonderful, the shades and textures fine and
cobwebby, the toes and heels are specially
strengthened.
The Price, 3 6 Pair, or
3 Pairs, Post Free, for 10/-
They will appeal to the man who requires nice, quiet, dignified Hosiery
at modest prices.
FINNEY’S
The Big Block,
BRISBANE.
DR. SHELDON’S DIGESTIVE TABULES
are a positive cure for Indigestion, Flatulence, Heart-
burn, Aciditv of Stomach, and all Stomach Troubles.
Price, Is. 6d. and 2s, (sd. per tin. Obtainable
everywhere,*
Missing Friends.
A Federal Detective Agency.
j. CANTLON
(late Victorian Detective Police) y&dfj"
takes Commercial, Confidential, Next >
Missing Friend and Matrimonial Enqum
Searches. Surveillance.
49 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne-
tf ELIZABETH MARY CRUIK-
-1 SHANK, sometimes known as >
Gibbs,” will communicate with, the
signed she may lear n son 1 eth Ing >, A
advantage.— MacDONNELL & HANJNAi
Solicitors, Cairns, N.Q.
Public Notice.
Tongkah Harbor Tin Dredging Company, N.L.
NOTICE OF DIVIDEND.
N 1 OTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that a We,
N thirteenth, of 10 p.c., or two shillings m
amounting to £15,000, be 'n^rDOse P the Share
January 22, 1914, and for this P P j anua ry 22
Register be closed from January
‘S* Hobart this
By order of the Directo y Manaser .
IN BANANA LAND
Pathetic “Missing Friends” advertisement
in the Brisbane Courier (13/12/’l3) :
George.—Come back again. Never mind work;
I II keep you.-—B.
If George resists this, he is adamant indeed.
Out of 1137 applications for loans granted
under the Workers’' Dwellings Act last year
Brisbane scooped in 713, or two-thirds of
the total. Maryborough actually secured
ien. But this was a special concession to a
town returning two staunch Liberals.
Cooktown Independent tells a yarn about
a local carpet snake, 20ft. long, that hunted a
sitting lien off her nest, and swallowed the
eggs. Afterwards, while sleepily attempting
digestion, the reptile was killed and the eggs
were extracted, Replaced under the hen, and
uuly hatched out. Well, if the rescued eggs had
each brought out a young carpet snake or a
juvenile croc., Cooktown might be proud of
itself. But hatching chicks out of hen’s eggs
—there’s nothing in it.
Finding that sharks were at work, and
-that, on account of the outrageous prices the
men had to pay, they would probably come
at him for higher wages, Railway Commis-
sioner Evans lately established socialistic
stores on the Mount Cuthbert and Mount'
Mulligan railway works. He reports that
both are selling goods of better quality and
at lower prices than the private shanties,
and still show profits; so he intends to do
more in the same way. Which puts Denham
and his supporters in a hole, as they don’t
know whether to pat themselves on the back
for the successful enterprise, or tell Evans
to give over his foolish idea before the
marriage tie is busted and the sanctity of
the home is destroyed for ever.
Queensland is slowly coming into its own.
A few years back the Calliope Valley and
the Mt. Larcom scrub lands, both in the
Port Curtis district, were looked on as quite
useless, and settlers passed them by accord-
ingly. A few foolhardy optimists, however,
decided to try the libel, and last week Rail-
way Minister Paget opened his eyes
to the result. In the Mt. Larcom
scrub lands 16,000 acres have been
taken up under 200 miners’ homestead
leases, and 14,000 acres by German set-
tlers, all within three years. It is lime-
stone country, and will, seemingly, grow any-
thing, but it has such a preference for sugar
that if there were a handy mill the scrubs
would soon become canefields. In the Calliope
Valley there are already dozens of dairy
farms, and the country is so “useless”
that one patch of lucerne was cut nine times
last year. When Bananaland’s population
moves on to the land in earnest, it will not
starve for lack of suitable accommodation.
P. W. Shannon, who goes to the Land
Court, replaces the deceased Judge Scott
with an official trained in his own school and
possessed of the same devotion to official
duty. Shannon is a comparatively young
man (47), keen, alert and vigilant. He will
probably be succeeded as Under-Secretary
by Gordon Graham, an encyclopaedia of
Lands Office minutiae.
The contractor is having a cold time in
Queensland. The records of the Railway
Department show that, where there is proper
supervision, the State itself is by far the
cheapest and best contractor. Treasurer
Barnes, though he admitted it was against
his grain to say so, told a deputation the
other day that they had saved as much' as
half the ‘cost by the present system. Even
the Church is finding it out. The treasurer
of the Pittsworth Anglican body has written
to the papers to say that they built their
church for £3OOO, while the lowest tender
was £5OOO. When you tell Brisbane people
that contractors really live on the losses, they
point to one man who made so much out of
one Government job in Brisbane that he
never had to worry about the wolf again.
NOT ELIGIBLE.
KITTY: "Why ain't you goin' with Willy now?"
SISSY : “ Couldn't waste me lime. He ain't in no position to buy peanuts!"
Bananaland Labor party got what it
wanted—“Bishop’’ Barnes is Acting-Premier.
The Tory press barracked for Jimmy Blair.
The Tory press hits sharp snags in these
days.
Townsville papers show that, in the local
tenders for hospital supplies, meat, which
was available at 2d. per lb. last year, is
offered at nothing less than sevenpcnce for
next year. Has the beneficent Trust got to
work' 1 so soon?
It is remarked in Brisbane that O. C.
Roberts bids fair to effect a revolution in
the prickly-pear business. A man with the
name of Oliver Cromwell ought to be at
home in making revolutions.
Young Row, who gets the next year’s
Rhodes scholarship, is a son of the Uunwich
medical officer, and comes from the N.S.W.
family which got some fame for an embro-
cation that farmers spill on stock to mend
them. Curiously, two other Roes, of another
family, have won the Queensland scholarships
previously. Perhaps they all deserved the
lift; still it becomes clearer that the unidenti-
fied genius has very little chance if he is not
in close touch with the University.
Gospels, Old and New.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If you suffer ev’ry evil
With a patient kind of groan ;
If you lift your cross like heroes,
Never heaving sigh or moan ;
If you take your black reverses
As a tonic-thing in curses,
Rest assured, my suff’ring brothers,
You shall stand before all others
In a circle round the Throne ;
You shall enter Highest Heaven-
Yea, the loftiest of the seven.
(Now the whereabouts of Heaven
Isn’t known.)
If you bear your little troubles
With a discontented groan ;
If you smash vour cross to flinders
And your fathers’ faith disown ;
If you tell the devils in you :
“I would like to scalp and skin you/
Rest assured, my brother sinful.
You will have your little skinful
When Apollyon gets his own —
Gets his own on you in Hades
Where the grill in constant trade is.
(Now the whereabouts of Hades
Isn’t known.)
Take, my friend, your joy and sorrow
As a thing that soon is flown ;
As a bird that’s gone to-morrow
With the breeze that’s overblown ;
Bide you, friend, by this' evangel:
I mvself am curse or angel;
I can keep my mind a palace ;
I can poison every chalice,
Make or mar the anthem-tone ;
But my Hades has its birth here
And my Heav’n’s upon this earth here,
(Now the whereabouts of earth here
Well is known!)
QUEENSLAND.
PHILANDER F.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, December 20, 1913.
My Dear Thargomindaii.—
The Talbot aide, who “severed his con-
nection” with your sample of imported Gov-
ernors, will arrive here about the first week
in January, as gentleman-help to our sub-
royal personage. His picturesque uniform
is expected to be a new treat for the girls.
The Foxton aide will take over the private
secretaryship to his Scotchellency. 1 rom
what that untruthful jade Rumor says about
the Strickland menage, Captain Talbot will
feel in his new billet something like a lion
in a den of Daniels.
Premier Denham was entertained at din-
ner at Parliament House last night. Robert
Philp was in the chair, and besides the
local talent and beauty who were grouped
round the feeding board were Uncle Sam’s
Commissioners, Adams and Stallsmith. who
are up here on business connected with the
Panama Canal Exposition. The chair-
gentleman proposed Digby’s health and
Digby thanked him at length. Then “Bishop”
Barnes proposed the American Commission-
ers’ health and theyi separately related their
.thanks. Next Philp presented to Digby a
pair of field-glasses (presumably to assist
him in picking out likely financiers) and
Digby replied with some more thanks.
Finally, as many of the crowd as could
manage it shook old Dig. by the hand and
wished him a pleasant trip, and he thanked
them kindly. It was a great thanksgiving
meeting.
To lots of people it was more than a sur-
prise when “Bishop” Barnes beat Jimmy
Blair for the acting-Premiership. So far
weights, odds and time have not been pub-
lished, to the dissatisfaction of a large sec-
tion of the betting public; but it is whis-
pered that the race was very close,
and that the Bishop won by a suddenly-
extended whisker.
Railway Commissioner Evans is to be
sent to America to see how they manage
their railways over there, especially that
part of the business which has to do with
the packing, transit, etc., of frozen meat,
fruit, etc. Other matters, too, will be con-
sidered. The Railway Department could do
with a few lessons on other matters. For in-
stance, tickets arp now given up at a barrier
at the Central Station. The sad suburban-
ite considered that he would thus save the
time that trains were detained at Bruns-
wick or Roma streets, while yelling
porters gathered up the cardboards. To his
despair he finds that the horde of porters
has faded away, and that on arrival at the
Central he has to join a long and snakelike
queue, which slowly wriggles through one
half of a gate. All other exits are barred.
Perhaps.in America Commissioner Eva ns will
learn some method by which all the gates
may be open at once, and a porter supplied
at each opening. Even a railway commis-
sioner ought to be able to learn a little for
the convenience of the travelling public.
Freda Bage, M.Se., F.L.S., of Melbourne,
has been appointed head of the Residential
College for Women. Freda is a smart
little woman, who has won a Mcßain
Research Scholarship, and the Victorian
-Government Research Scholarship. In be-
tween she demonstrated at Melbourne
University. Afterwards, she travelled
Europe for two years, and on her return to
Australia was appointed acting-lecturer in
biology to the Queensland University. She
is a nice, sociable scientist, and should do
very well at the Women’s College.
Miner James Alford was handed a medal
yesterday for helping to rescue two children
from a burning house at Mount Chalmers.
James Hill, who aided and abetted, will get
his at Rockhampton next Tuesday. George
Y.’s locum tenens passed over the bit of
bronze, and mentioned that these knick-
knacks were only given when they were
thoroughly deserved. Alford went back a
thiru time after the two children were hauled
out, thinking that still another infant was on
the premises, and got pretty badly burnt.
II is final exit was made about 30 seconds
before the building ,
Mrs. Elkington, wife of the well-liked Fed-
eral Health Officer, has evolved an idea for
which she deserves a well-nourished wreath
of bays. She and her husband .are building
a house on their land at Sherwood, and until
it is finished they are to reside on the
scenery in a large, cool tent. Mrs. Elking-
ton knows what this sort of existence is like,
for in India she often accompanied her hus-
band on his travels beyond the tourist tracks.
T Will not, of course, be an ordinary tent.
It will, as a matter of fact, be two tents,
and will have a board floor and such luxuries
as telephone, ice-chest, gas-stove, etc. It is
quite time someone with some initiative
started a scheme like this. In these days of
timber rings and lack of domestic help a tent
seems ideal, and now that a recognised society
leader has begun it, the revolution may
spread. Better a tent where simplicity reigns
than a large mansion replete with all modern
inconveniences except domestics. It is quite
likely that another six months will see the
suburbs bursting into canvas.
Popular medico Hopkins was fed and
otherwise entertained at Eschenhagen’s yes-
terday. Carl Zoeller occupied the head perch,
and about a dozen other well-known busi-
ness and medical men sat around the festive
board. Carl Zoeller mentioned how glad they
were to see Dr. Hopkins so improved in
health, and marked the occasion with an illu-
minated address.
The city kindergartens have been enter-
taining their pupils at Christmas trees.
Ithaca. Ipswich-road and the Valley have
all had a turn, and the infants appeared to
have the time of their young lives.
These kindergartens are fine things.
Each one is right in the heart of a slummified
part of the town, yet one never sees a poorly
clad or unhappy-looking youngster in the
lesson ring. All the mothers have an approv-
ing word for the teachers and the schools,
which is another good sign.
May the New Year find all your bills
receipted.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
Governor Macgregor, at the Brisbane
Grammar School break-up, expressed his
delight that precedence was still given to
Latin and Greek. A few minutes later, he
lamented that neither French, German nor
English was half as thoroughly studied in
our academies as in those of the Continent.
Perhaps the dead languages, to which the
Macgregor is so partial, get in the way of
the living ones.
At Ohillagoe (N.Q.) recently one man
called another a “scab,” and reported him as
such to the Union. He was fined £3, with
£5 13s. 4d. costs. A few days later Warwick
doctors agreed that the Friendly Societies’
doctor was also an animal of the same breed,
and refused to work with him. But no fine
has followed in this case, of course. Offen-
sive language doesn’t consist so much of
what you say as the sort of clothes you say
it in.
“Itangan” : Bananaland threatens to break
the bonds of one foolish convention —the
building of almost air-tight schools. A new
open-air factory has just been put up at Too-
woomba, and Under-Sec. Story, while lauding
its other advantages, praised also its virtue
of cheapness. Queensland’s old-style schools
cost on an average £8 per head. (Inited
States and Great Britain pay £4O a head to
build theirs.) But the new open-air type
cost only £3 a head. Incidentally, what s
wrong with open-air churches? Banana-
land’s tabernacles are even more air-tight
than its schools, and who wants to’ go to
church to literally sweat out his sins?
From one of the faithful: —
It is 50 years since Dr. Dunne, the little, mild-
eyed, self-effacing Archbishop of Brisbane, sailed
from sweet Tipperary to help Queensland grow big-
Queensland was then a parochial little spot, and it
wanted some forcing. Bishop Quinn was pegging
away at the immigration question. He had discov-
ered a process whereby he could bring out immi-
grants entitled to land orders, and he invited nr.
Dunne to back him up. Although some of the lana
orders went to the Church, hundreds of farms abo
Warwick and Toowoomba went to Tipperary, ana
Wicklow immigrants and settlement grew rapid).
Dr. Dunne was an enthusiast in stocking and crop-
ping.- He took little interest in politics; tilling tne
vacant spaces of the Downs with the sons and g
ters of Erin wholly absorbed him. He had a repu
tation for scholastic accomplishments, as he had pee.
for a few years a seminary professor; but an ag
tural gazette was dearer to him than a v .
doctrinal controversy. And at 82 he preserv
same mild-eyed placidity.


; 'l|| pi
r .i .
|j;p|ijjppg!ipig;-.
i|!i!ij!!!iii;i ;i lllliiiiiiii lilinnijjlj-S
!;;h. ; j. ijij#|ffig§§§|
#riii
ii
IUMMM!!
(fi if:!
ill
"W.
■ l:*;: r
■. 11 -I
iiij Hi" 4
I 111
HU!
i ■" 1 1
n ■■
US:
! i! i!
SBgjpii;
IllSl lifclf
K
o
' 'ilii i
J;
' iiiS "I 'l!||||.'
iijl!l
L ;? ii iiilS
mm-i
11ll 1 ! 1,1
(NmUr i|> 111
r ii
piliSiMiiiilli
I” »!
iiliii
ix 1 ;
iii" '
iijli!!
I' .iii
I iii!?:!
Mill '
::a
i ■
'll! <l|
You sceh Good Luck, ■&here's
the plan
When Neiu Year comes agen-
You want a dark complexioned man
And a Dottle of"N°KK


BABY
gained 14 lb.
This is not an unusual case
but just one of the thou-
sands in which SCOTT’S
brings new health, in-
creased weight and re-
newed strength.
“ After suffering with pneumonia my
son had
wasted away to
ski n and bone.
The Doctor then ordered SCOTT’S,
and my son rapidly gained in weight
and vitality. After four bottles he is
completely restored to health and has
gained 14 lb.”—(Signed) John King,
22, Bray Street, Erskineville, Sydney,
N.S.W. 28/6/12.
scons
Emulsion
None is genuine unless it bears
the Fishman on the package.
(L
W*
TRADE
MARK
BEST
NATURAL
APERIENT
WATER
AMTINEURASTHIN
BRAIN and NERVE. FOOD
is not ithe chance’.production of a day, but the final
triumph of years of sfcieritific experiment.
The i wonderful properties of Antineurasthin for
successfully treating all nerve maladies —-Digestive
Disorders, Anaemia, Rheumatism, Brain Fag and
Insomnia-have been testified to by'thousands Of those
who have received benefit. ,r
THE TEFFECTS OF ANTINEURASTHIN
are ncft only rapid, but what is more important-b-
-lasting. These are indeed immediately noticeable.
The general feeling of health increases; the patient
becomes energetic arid experiences a renewed pleasure
in life. Headache and Neuralgic Pains vanish,, irrita-
bility disappears, Physical and Mental exertions are
easily "borne, 'while the mental powers and memory
quickly improve.
ANTINEURASTHIN cures by feeding the Brain
and Nerve Centres.
You-can prove its value by writing for a Free Trial
supplvj- enclosing twopence in stamps, to the Whole-
sale Agents, IT. A. Goddard, No. 3 Australasia Cham-
bers, 406-414 Queen Street, Brisbane; or Branches:
194 Vickery’s Chambers, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney;
9-15 Safe Deposit BullSihgs; 90 Queen Street, Mel-
bourne; 3 Ellershaw’s Buildings, Cliff Street, Fre-
mantiq; 213 Smeeton’s Buildings, Queen Street,
Auckland.;-
Serial No 810. Guaranteed under the Pure Foods
Act of New South Wales by 11. A. Goddard, Sydney,
to contain not Jess than 10 per cent. Pure Lecithin.
I i
■ ?
Seven Days’
Free Trial
of one of these
fine French-
made Prisma-
tic Binoculars.
Magnify 8 in.
diameter,
large an d
bright field of
..view, clean,
crbpand sharp
focus, adjust-
ably, eyepiece (for odd eyes), also central focus.
Complete tin leather case, £5 post free.
We are*“Australian agents for a large French
Optical House, and have contracted brtake a.
large number to secure ’special discounts, other* ',
wise this grade glass would cost £6/10/-.
Send full cash deposit.of £5, and we will
send- Binocular for seven days’ free ‘trial. If
found unsatisfactory, and returned, full deposit
wilK .be refunded. *
A. P. GREENFIELD & CO., LTD.,
139-191 George Street, Brisbane.
The Queen of Table JVaters
QUARTS, PINTS AND SPLITS.
KNOWLEDGE, IS POWER
Thirty years of assiduous study of The Hair and its Treatment, and all
Capillary Diseases as they affect the Scalp and Hair, have given me the means
of Preserving the Hair, and producing a new growth, after all other preparations
have failed.
Mr. Fred Peakman, of Wairoa, New Zealand, is another wonderful case. His hairdresser tells me
he had not a scrap of hair, and now, after a few months treatment with my preparations, he has
got a splendid growth of hair.
Mr. O’Rourke, Wee Waa, New South Wales, writes: “My head, which was nearly bald, has now
come back to its usual growth.”
Mr Sutherland states: “I had only a little down on my head when I commenced to use your
SPECIAL PARASENE and COSMO LOTION ; now I have a beautiful head of hair.”
Gentlemen who are going bald should use Special Parasene and Cosmo Potion, one at
night and the other in the morning, and wash the head once a week with Shampiina.
Price (with postage, two months’ treatment): Victoria, 12/-; four months, 22/6. Other
States, 12/6 and 23/6.
Ladies with hair falling out should apply Restorer at night, and Cosmo Lotion in the
morning, and wash the head as often as necessary with Sliampuna.
Naturaline is a splendid preparation for coloring Grey Hair. It acts quickly, naturally
and effectively, and is perfectly harmless. Made in all colors. Get the right strength.
No 1 for Light Brown Hair; Medium for Medium Brown Bair.
No. 2 for Dark Brown or a Light Black ; Extra Strong for very Black Hair.
Price: Victoria, with postage, G/3. Other States, 6/8.
E. HOLLAND,
Scalp and Hair Specialist,
195 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Hunyadi Janos
Chronic Constipation is a common cause of anaemia, dyspepsia,
headache, mental trouble and many other ills.
For Chronic Constipation, Indigestion, Biliousness, Dyspepsia, Torpid
Liver. Piles and similar troubles, Nature has happi'y furnished a
never failing remedy. A systematic course of Hunyadi Janos Natural
Aperient Water will effect a certain and most likely permanent cure.
To obtain lasting good results it is of course necessary to regulate
most carefully diet and other details of dai y life.
. 1
'l'f'T
■'-v -
Wonderful Worßing Models.
Marvels of Mechanical Ingenuity.
SPECIAL DISPLAY AT JERDAN’S. BRING THE BOYS TO SEE THEM WORK.
We are making a Special Display in our Windows of the Latest in Scientific Toys.
THESE BOTH INSTRUCT AND AMUSE.
SCIENCE COMBINED WITH PLEASURE.
MODELS OF
THE AUSTRALIAN NAVY
DREADNOUGHTS
MAILBOATS
TORPEDO BOATS
SUBMARINES
LOCOMOTIVES
HORIZONTAL ENGINES
VERTICAL ENGINES
DYNAMOS
CINEMATOGRAPHS, etc., etc.
Also
The Masterpiece,
Even the
AND THE PRICES RANGE FROM 6/6.
“MECANNO,” “ A Thousand Models in One.’
Smallest Child can make his own Working Models from 5/- the set.
OPEN ON FRIDAY NIGHTS.
JERDANS LTD.
393 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Before You
Go Home
purchase one of the many models of
“His Master’s Voice’’ Gramophones.
It will enable you tp enjoy in your
country home all the finest music, and
rarest voices, in the world.
You never grow tired ipf such a
versatile entertainer. ’ •t\
Bis Master’s Voice”
Gramophones
make life iru4lie ,bush quite as enjoyable, in -a musical sense, as life in the
city. _ , - v ’ '-'‘V/
They—and tlley alone —enable you to hear “all the latest and all the be£t.
Prices range from £5/32/0 to £OO. Look for the familiar sign of a dog at
the gramophone—it is the mark of merit.
Instrument Catalogue, Record Lists and the name of nearest accredited
dealer on request.
Sole Concessionaires for
The Gramophone Co., Ltd
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Jk
•mi* /aa*tc*s vwcr
The Australian
Magazine.
THE LONE NANP
The National
monthly,
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
A. E. Mewett: Thanks for your dread-
fully serious explanation of what looked to This
Bulletin like a pretty good joke. After selling you
the land for £2 on account of unpaid rates, it seems
that the local corporation discovered that the pro-
perty belonged to the Crown, which presently sold it
for £5l. We can quite understand why you
shouldn’t regard it as a joke. Still, we re glad to
know that you are not going to sue the local council.
Doubtless it has troubles enough already. .. .J.
Busby: Now, honestly, what have you seen in The B.
to make you think there could be room for that ?
Bob Way: Capital idea; sorry it arrived too late
for use.. . .The Postman: Both out of our line....
Jack Horner: You can take it that that man knew
what he was writing about. He has been in the
business all his life. . . .C. Marius: Consider this sen-
tence: “Returning in an interval of somewhat over
five hours, I perceived crocodilus in the same soporific
posttire as when I had previously cast vulgar glances
at him.” Apparently you mean that, returning after
five hours or more, you found the crocodile still
asleep. Then, in Heaven’s name, why not say so,
and be done with it?. .. .R O’F.: The wayback dust-
storm has been ' done so often that it takes a good
pen to dig out a printable description of it nowa-
days. . . .Harry T.: WgII done \ but as it in the
nature of a serial, it's barred. .. .J.M.L.: Too late.
J.T.D.: Good yarn; wish it had come to us
first-hand Lorelei: The country mail is opened,
and out drop 14 letters enclosing 14 cards, all with
“poetry” on them, and all headed “The Sanitary
Man ” Thus we know that Christmas is upon us.
. ...A.0.H.: (1) Not up; (2) thanks Longy:
Not sufficient public interest. There are hundreds of
much worse cases. .. .W.H.C.: Thanks ; but Meagher s
election anecdote was born years before he was.. . .
Inquirer: The Oldest Inhabitant tells us that, theie
is no record of any of the Teeth having been in the
retail beer trade: the “family fortunes” certainly
were not founded that way. In 1836 Newenham and
Tooth founded the Kent Brewery. In 1843 Robert and
Edwin Tooth —the latter the father of the baronet—
came from Cranbrook, Kent, to take over the man-
agement, and “R. and E. Tooth” was the firm until
1854, when Robert, Frederick and Edwin Tooth were
the partners. And so it was in 1858, when Robert
Tooth represented Sydney in the second Leg. Assem-
blv. In the mid ’6o’s the firm consisted of William
Butler Tooth, Frederick Tooth and J. S. Mitchell;
W. B. Tooth had been squatting in t'-e Moreton Bay-
district, and had represented that territory in the
second Parliament. In the first ’7o’s the firm com-
prised Frederick and Robert Lucas Tooth (the now
baronet). A year after that Frederick left and J. S.
Mitchell came back. Tooth and Co., Limited, was
formed in 1888 Snatcho: Heat sketch might make
an Abo. item Lochryan : • Too mechanical......
Inosit: Fairly good outline, but the filling-in isn’t
well done. ... Dami: No hot Yuletide poems wanted
here....Jas. P.: The old Excelsior brand of ever-
upward poem requires to be particularly well done.
This isn’t N.D.: Humorous dress verses are
thoroughly depressing. But a bad first attempt
doesn’t disqualify for all time. Most successful
writers have spectres of first attempts haunting
them R.M.Y. (\V.A.) : A Sydney writer antici-
pated you... .A.F.: N0....T.G.: Yes, it’s lively
verse, but we want your name and address, please.
Also, why did you write on both sides of the paper ?
That seems to indicate a literary novice—and the
verse is a lot better than the usual novice puts out.
Send your name and address, and an assurance that
it is your own work, and we will greet you cordially.
At present you are just “T.G.”... .Bellerive: Sorry
we can’t oblige you. But here’s a breathless one of
the latest series:—
THE DEPARTURE OF THE AURORA FOR THE
ANTARCTIC REGIONS.
The auxiliary barque Aurora
Without ceremony or Display
Cheered by a few spectators
.From Williamstown sailed away
Bound for the antarctic regions
Where the fearful blizzards blow
O’er the vast and shimmering glaciers
And dangerous depths of snow,
In command of Captain Davis
The brave crew sailed the foam
With hope in their hearts to beareth
Their gallant comrades home.
... . M.L.W.: Sympathetically sketched, but we would
rather not have it. You should be able to place it
with one of the Melbourne weeklies... . J.N.: If .we
had a volume of sermons by us, we would present it
to you as a prize for dullness. Are you like that
naturally, or did you do it on purpose?... .A.P.R.:
Flood: item didn’t carry us away. .. .Achilles B.:
The conflagration will start as soon as the Religious
Editor can find the matches. Someone took them
away to set fire to the German band, which Tried to
blow Christmas carols just below the front window
.... Charles C..: Don’t know what it means.. Do
you?.. i.E.: Plain boiled poem. No name or ad-
dress attached. Hopeless sort of item whichever way
you look at it. . . .Charles G. (M.L.) : Sorry, another
miss.... Daughter of a Pioneer: Simple song-words
only. No print value here... .W.A.S.: Verses a bit
rotigh and out of our line. Returning MS. ' You
might market it yet....F.S. (Melb.) : Did you ever
hear two real human beings talk like that? There
id color in the cafe sketch, but the dialogue is simply
maddening. Then the sense of strain is oppressive
Slid the whole thing too indefinite. .. .P.H.F.: Don’t
advise anyone else to go and get drowned while you
are writing verse of that description.... Snatcho:
You were too slow off the ink-mark with your strike
item.... Pampered Purist: It was a queer rhyme to
put on black-edged paper. Afraid, though, that
your selection of undertaker’s kisses is not up to our
monumental standard. The interment will take place
in the basket immediately. No : flowers. .. .Aremo :
Hull, 88 King-street; Hagen, Ltd., 182 Pitt-street.
....Vantage: That doesn’t follow. F. \V. Holder,
for instance, was a first-rate Treasurer; and he had
very little more commercial or financial training than
Holman. And Geo. Turner, one of the best
Treasurers Australia has ever known, had been a
plain, brown solicitor all his life.
Professor Cherry, who instructs the youth
of Melbourne in the art of turnip-raising and
the allied branches of rural industry, is a
short, energetic, husky person with
whiskers like a bunch of mattress-stuffing,
lie lives at Glen Iris, where signs of his
labors are to be seen all over the landscape.
Being a cow-professor, he keeps a herd of
all-sorts, which are mostly the envy of the
local rural-producer, the exceptions being a
bare-ribbed Ruby or two and a shrunk-
■ shanked 'Doll, presumably retained for ex-
perimental purposes. Besides tearing a con-
siderable amount of stock-sustenance out of
the soil around his own homestead, the
academic fodderist leases land in the most
unexpected places, and makes two tons of
maize grow where only 5cwt. of weeds grew
before. For some time he was Director of
Agriculture; but there were disagreements as
to the cow-policy of the country, and a
University professorship looked better than
a directorship enduring perpetual criticism
from all quarters. Victoria'certainly needed
an agricultural professor at least-as much as
it needed an imported professor of litera-
ture, and this one seems to fill the bill, if
it be possible to judge by the proofs of his
activity.


“ Mist
Simplicity."
THE
BRITISH MAID
My name is Onoto. My business is to
simplify writing. My character (‘ quick,
reliable worker, very clean, gives no trouble
whatsoever ) speaks for itself. / never take
a day off Let me simplify your writing. ’ ’
The Onoto Pen 1 simplifies writing because :
!•—lt needs no filler. It fills itself—
instantly—without any mess or trouble;
arid will then write 20,000 words without
further attention.
2. It cannot leak. Once closed, the
Onoto .becomes a sealed tube, and can be
safely carried upside down.
The Onoto is British made. It is designed
to last a lifetime and is guaranteed by its
makers.
Price 12/- and upwards, of all Stationers, Jewellers
and Stores. Booklet ah'ut the Onuto Pen free on
application to 7 HOS. LE LA RUE & CO.. Ltd.,
204 Bunhill Row. London, E.C,, or the Australasian
representatives, Norman Baker & Longhursr,
50 York Street, Sydney.
Ask for ONOTO Ink-
Best for all Pens.
For the Country Horseman
The saddle here illustrated is expressly designed
for country use, for stock riding, etc.| and is built
of the best materials throughout. If any of our
friends are. requiring such a saddle they will find
this a genuine bargain.
It has a hogskin seat, a plated bar-tree, extra
long flaps,' with points to buckle below. An economi-
cal feature is the skirt, which extends all round
and thus adds years of wear to the saddle by pro-
tecting its interior from the weather. It has a
deep, “sweepy” seat, 4in. kneepads, nickel-plated
iron stirrups, and double buckle leather girth. The
price complete is. £3/-15/- Mention qf, The
Bulletin when ordering will ensure your having a
leather surcingle given in free, and the saddle will
be forwarded freight paid. It is to be obtained
from J. P. Tnlt.y, 388 Sussex Street, Sydney.
Do You Use Glass Instru-
ments in Your Calling ?
Do you use Scientific Glassware in
your calling? We manufacture and
repair them to exact 'standard re-
and guarantee their per-
fect accuracy:
If you wish special instruments made
for any purpose, tell us your needs
and we will quote you for the neces-
sary design.
Our Booklet, illustrating Scientific
Glassware of every kind, is free.
Shall we send you a copy ?
WILSON NAFIS 8 CO. LTD.,
Wharf Street, Brisbane, Q.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
NEXT ANNUAL DISTRIBUTION OF PROFITS AS AT 31st DECEMBER, 1913.
, A . LI Participating Policies issued in the Ordinary Department before the close of the current year will
snare in the (-asn Bonus to be then allotted.
Cash Bonus Divided for Year 1912 £936 971
Yielding Reversionary Additions to Policies of over. .. . £1,64o!ooO
lotal Cash Bonuses Distributed £17,790,073
benefit Hn's^earlpßonus 0 effeCt aSSUranne or a further assurance on your life, in order ’to reap the
of the V society 1- partieulars to the Head offlce - 87 pitt Street, Sydney; or any District Office or Agent
RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F,^ s S., General Manager and Actuary.
H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
Bargains
FROM
ENGLAND
BARGAINS
FOR
ALL.
PAWNBROKERS’
Clearance Sale
SEND AT ONCE FOR OUR
FULL LIST OF
3,500
GENUINE BARGAINS
ASTOUNDING VALUE.
Brimming over with money-saving possibilities.
Patronised by Royalty and the Nobility.
Bankers
London County & Westminster Bank,
Camberwell Branch, London.
W E nff p V r e n e f V 4H in °A ,r al,;lit i es *° p ,ease olir Customers, lienee our remarkable
„ n ofler ? f Months’ Free Approval. Examine the articles von may choose at your
et.ee, m your own home, and if you are not defined ami fully satisfied with the
high quality and exceptional value, return them to us within six months and we will
immediately return your deposit.
May we solicit a trial order P Absolute satisfaction guaranteed
or money returned in full.
TERMS OF BUSIN ESS. Any Article Sent on Approval, Carriage
Free, on receipt of remittance. Cash refunded in full for goods
not approved and returned us within six months.
Read whaf “The Christian Age” says—
“I)AVJS «V Co, of ‘26 Denmark Mill, have gained
considerable reputation for supplying unredeemed
pledges at very moderate prices. We gather from
their latest bargain List that great savings can be
effected by purchasing a second-hand article of
jewellery which has - just had enough wear to test
its value at about one-third the original cost price.
Included in their catalogue are watches by some of
the finest in vkers in the world.”
Head what “Great Thoughts” says—
lliere cannot exist rnucli donhc as to the intrinsic
value of any advertised article when such advertisers
are willing to send the goods advertised on.the
Approval- Svstfiin. This system is adopted bv
Messrs. J)A\lB <fc Co., and is a singular proof that
fliessrs. h A VIS A' Co. liave every belief in their
ability to please their customers and prove.the
genuine nature of their announcements."
U/C Field, Race, or Marine Glasses.
/U £3/5/- Military Binocular (by Lefaier),
as supplied to .officers in the Army and Navy;
10 aqhroipatic lenses'; 50 miles range; shows
bullet mark at 1,000-yds.; saddler made case;
great bargain ; sacrifice, 14/6.
Ol ;P°; v erfu,l £4/4/- Binocular Field
*/. .. glasses (by Chevalier) ; 10 lens
magnification, power, brilliant definition, over
60 miles range, great depth-’ of focus/ large
field of view ; adjusted to the hitd'oct degree
of scientific accuracy; in saddl . uiade sling
case; tremendous bargain: sacrifice, £l/1/-
QT/C Powerful £B/8/- Double-Draw Bino-
OI / U culars, 12 lens magnification power
(by Lumiere), as supplied to H.R.H. the Crown
Prince of Greece; most powerful glass made;
name of ship.can be distinctly read five miles
from shore; quick focus, brilliant field of view,
colourless achromatic crystal lenses, enhanced
stereoscopic effect, great penetration power ; in
solid brown English leather case; sacrifice,£l/17/6
Ifl IC Gent’s heavy 18-ct. Gold-cased
I Z/0 Keyless Lever Hunter Watch,
improved action (John Forrest, London); 10
years’ warranty; absolutely perfect timekeeper;
also Double Curb Albert, same quality with
handsome Compass attached ; all quite indis-
tinguishable from new; complete, sacrifice, 12/6.
•i n/O Lady's handsome 18-ct. Gold-cased
I £L! 0 Keyless Watch, improved action
(Allen & Co., London); exact timekeeper; 10
years’ warranty/also long Watch Guard, elegant
design, same quality ; together, sacrifice, 12/6.
1 C /fj --(Worth £4/4/-). Real Russian Furs.
I ill U Rich, dark sable brown Fur, 8-ft.
long; GJanville Stole, deep shaped collar,
beautifully trimmed, 12 tails and heads; large
Jpranny Muff matching; together, 15/6.
nty /C (Worth £5/5/-). Real Russian Furs.
ZZ/U Rich, dark sable brown, extra long
PrinceSstStole, trimmed with head and sails at
back-jjdid on shoulders ; also large animal Muff,
wrtHtJihads and tailg hanging ; in perfectly new
condition ; together, great sacrifice, £l/2/6. -
■J ft /(* Gent’s fashionable Double Albert,
IZ/ 0 18-ct. Gold (stamped) filled, curb
pattern, heavy solid links; sacrifice, 12/6.
1 Q/R £4/4/ 18-ct. Solid Gold, hall-
10/ U marked, Diamond and Sapphire
Doobj|et Half-hoop Ring, claw setting, large
faultless stones ; sacrifice,*lB/6.
"7(\‘/Z lady’s £l3/13/- 5-Stone Diamond
1 ULfif and Sapphire Half-hoop Ring, 18-ct.
GdSdj&Goverfiment hall-marked, claw setting,-
contiinin-g-twS'.laTge round diamonds of dazzling
whiteness ,aftd tliree beautiful sapphires of
■richest quality ; sacrifice, £5/10/-
OR /C Gent’s £4/4/- fashionable Dark Grey
ZD/D Tweed ‘Jacket Suit (by Stroud,
High-class Tailor) ; splendid quality, latest
West End cut and finish, never worn ; breast
39-inr, waist 36-in., length 32J-in.; £l/6/6.
Ofi/C Lady’s £5/5/- Solid Gold English,
jfcU/U. hall-marked, Keyless Watch, highly
finished jewelled movement, exact timekeeper,
richly engraved; 12 years' warranty; £l/6/6. s ,
7fl / Magnificent Gent’s £l3/13/- Single
j" Stone Diamond Ring, exceptionally
tine pure white stone, perfect in every respect,
mounted in 18-ct. Gold, Government hall-
marked,.claw setting ; sacrifice, £3/10/-
OC/C Lady’s £5/5/- Solid Gold long Watch
/\J Guard, handsome and very stylish
in pattern, stamped and guaranteed r in faultless
and new condition ; sacrifice, £l/6/6.
KK/« Gent’S magnificent £l2/11/- Solid
\J\J/ Gold English, hall-marked, Keyless
Centre Seconds, Chronograph Stop
Watch, exam, by celebrated watchmaker (W.
Russell, London); jewelled movement, perfect
reliability in any climate in the world,; timed to
a minute a month ; 20 years' warr-antvp6 months'
trial; great bargain ; sacrifice, £2/15/-
KQ /C Lady’s magnificent £ll/11/- Diamond
Up/U and Sapphire Cluster Ring, lB ct. Gold,
hall-marked ; there are ten white and fauttless
diamonds surrounding a superb sapp&ire ot
richest quality ; to appreciate the full beauty of
this Ring it must be seen ; sacrifice, £2/19/6.
OQ/C Baby’s Long Clothes, superfine
quality, magnificent £5/5/- parcel,
oz articles, everything required; beautiful
garments ; the perfection of mother’s personal
work ; never worn ; great sacrifice, £l/9/6.
Of)/C Valuable Violin (worth £lO/10/-},
VL U perfect condition, labelled S.trafiivarius
Cremona, 1721 ; rich mellow tone, with'Bow
and Case, suit professional or soloist; £l/12/6,
1 Q/fi (Worth £3/3/-). Choice Expanding
lyi ” Watch Bracelet; finest workinaa-
ship, most successful ever invented, will fit
and grip any wrist, thereby avoiding all vibration
and ensuring perfect timekeeping; 18-ct.tGaltl-
cased ; 6 months’trial; sacrifice,-'l3/6. •*
"1 O/Q 'W or til £l/15/-) _Eigl.it super line quality
l & Chemises, Knickers, anti Petticoats;
magnificent parcel; sacrifice, 12/9.
QQ/fi Spoons and Forks. (£lO/10/- Setj.
1/y/U A 1 quality, silver-plated on nickdl
sinier, stamped maker’s initials, Queen Anne
pattern; 12 Table, 12 Dessert, 12 Tea Spoons,,
12 Table, 12 Dessert Forks; Service 5-doz.r
wonderful bargain, £l/19/6; Half-Set, £l. -
in/fi Fashionable Curb Chain ~Padlo6k
!y/ U Bracelet, with safety chain, solid
link-;,.18-ct. Gold (stamped) filled, in velvqt case’;
sacrifice, 10/6; another heavier, T2/6. / i
OC C (Worth £4/4/-). Twenty-four sbherftne
quality N ightdrjgsses, Chemises,
Knickers, Petticoats, Combinations; &t.;
tremendous bargain ; sacrifice, £l/6/6. ]
6/n Pretty Necklet, with Heart PendSnt
/ O attached, set Parisian pearls and tur-
quoises; elegant design; 18-ct. Gold (stamped)
filled; in velvet case ; bargain; sacrifice, 6/9,
DAVIS & CO.
(T)
PAWNBROKERS,
26 DENMARK HILL,
LONDON, ENGLAND,
For general use
The ‘ALLENBURYS’ Diet is a
complete and easily digested food.
' It is pleasant to take, readily assimilated and speedily restorative. Whilst
helping the system to recover its tone and vigour, it forms an ideal food
for general use. Prepared from rich milk and whole wheat in a partially
predigested form.
Made in a Minute
—add boiling water only —
ALLEN ©VHANBURYS LTD.
LONDON, ENGLAND
■ : . 'and
MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
V
»
Deaf People
Hear Whispers
With Common-Sense Ear Drums—
“ Wireless ’Phones for the Ears.”
For twenty years the Common-Sense
Ear Drums have been giving good hear-
ing to hundreds of thousands of deaf
people. Every condition of deafness or
defective hearing is being
helped and cured, such as
Catarrhal Deafness, Jlelaxed
or Sunken Drums, Thickened
Drums, Roaring and Hissing
Sounds, Perforated or Parti-
ally Destroyed Drums, Drums
wholly. Destroyed, Discharge
from -Ears. No matter how
lohg standing the case may
be; there is hope of good hear-
ing for all the afflicted deaf.
The Common-Sense Ear Drums are made, of .soft,
sensitised material, comfortable and
wear. They are out of sight • when worn, and
easily adjusted by wearer.
•Good hearing brings cheerfulness, comfort and
sunshine into the life of the lonely deaf. The
total cost is £ I—why not order to-day ?
ORDER FORM.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
103 Arlington Chambers,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please send me an Outfit containing a pair of
Wilson Common-Sense Ear Drums, an Inserter
and a Remover, for which I enclose One Pound.
Name
Address
NOTE. —Send Money Order or Postal Note.
If a Bank Note or Sovereign is sent, you must
register it.
THE DRUM
<N POSITION
HOLIDAY
MUSIC
FOR the NEW YEAR
You Must Have MUSIC.
Here are some Real Bargains in Instru-
ments. All guaranteed sound and
reliable—and the prices are right.
CONCERTINAS
No. 2 “Dudley”—lmitation Rosewood tops, 10
Bone Keys, 5-fold Am. cloth bellows, trumpet
holes, nickel mounts and clasps, complete in
handsome box, post free, 10/-.
With real Rosewood tops, post free 12/6.
ACCORDEONS-
No. O Model—B£in. x Mahogany stained
mouldings, 2; sets reeds, 10 nickel keys and
pallets, 2 bass stops, 8-fold double bellows,
• nickel corners. Post free, 10/-.
* Other models in stock.
AUTOHARPS
No. 1 “Auto,” a handsome, well-made instru-
ment, 18in. x 10in.-, 20 strings, 3 manuals,
complete instructions free. Easy to learn, easy
to play. Post free, 15/-.
Larger size, 25 strings, 3 manuals, post free,
22/6.
MOUTH ORGANS—
The Celebrated “Bess o’ th’ Barn” Mouth
Organs, of excellent tone and tune, 1/-, 1/6, 2/-,
Ocarinas, Flageolets, Jaw’s
Harps & other Instruments.
Write for Lists, Post Free.
A P. SYKES,
272 Little Collins-street,
MELBOURNE.
TWO OOOKJ MOM COLE'S .OOK ARCADE
When something is wanted
to put on a burn or scald,
to heal a cut, scratch,
or skin sore, apply
Calvert’s
Carbolic Ointment
It soon relieves the soreness and pro-
motes a jqui k cure, while for a skin
wound especially its antiseptic virtue is
important. On other occasions also
it is useful—for insect bites or slings,
for eczema, ringworm, and skin ’ail-
ments generally—whenever a healing
antiseptic ointment is needed.
Local Stoics and Chi mists sell it.
Made by F. C.CA L VER'l' & Co., Manchester^nG,
'for a fair dtnkum go
i ... TRY. THE ... 4
CJL
©-©
Accordeons'
Th§ Wprld.’s Best
35/-, 42/- 63A
‘ Sble J Agent ■ • -
LYO N S,
Bourkest.,Melb.


Legal Notices.
N THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND.
No. 354 of 1913.
Mr. Justice Chubb.
BETWEEN
ROBERT JOHN SIMPSON, Plaintiff,
and
WILLIAM SIMPSON, Defendant.
TO WILLIAM SIMPSON, formerly of
Currumbin, in the State of Queensland, in
the Commonwealth of Australia, Farmer, but
believed to be lately residing in the State of.
Western Australia.
TAKE NOTICE that Robert John Simp-
son, of Currumbin, aforesaid, Farmer, has
commenced an action against you, William
Simpson, in his Majesty’s Supreme Court aLi
Queensland, by a Writ of that Court dated j
the fourth day of December, One thousand
nine hundred and thirteen, which Writ is
endorsed as follows : ,
“THE PLAINTIFF’S CLAIM' is
against the defendant for partition of all
that piece or parcel of land containing
One hundred and sixty acres more or
less situated in the Parish of Tallebud-
gera, County of Ward, being Farm No.
13, Beenleigh District, Portion 19V, and
being the whole of the land described in
Deed of Grant No. 78463, Volume 630,
Folio 223, of which said land the plain-
tiff and the defendant are the registered
proprietors under the Real Property
Acts 1861 and 1877 for an estate in
fee simple as joint tenants, or in the
alternative for the sale of the said
piece or parcel of land in lieu of such
partition as aforesaid and the distribu-
tion of the proceeds of such sale.
“And for costs.”
AND-you are required within two months
after the receipt of this notice, inclusive of
the day of such receipt, to defend the said
action by causing an appearance to be
entered for you in the said Court to the said
action and in default of your so doing the
said Robert John Simpson may by leave of
the Court or a Judge proceed therein and,,
judgment may be given in your absence.
You may appear to the said Writ by
entering an appearance personally or by
your Solicitor at the Supreme Court Office
at Brisbane.
Dated this Eleventh day of December,
1903.
McCOWAN & LIGIITOLLER,
Solicitors for the Plaintiff, Robert John
Simpson,
New Zealand Chambers,
334 Queen Street,
Brisbane.
In the Supreme Court of New Zealand.
Wellington District.
IN THE MATTER of The Trustee
Act, 1908, and
IN THE MATTER of The Public
Trust Office Act, 1908 ; and
IN THE MATTER of the estate of
George Tuck well formerly of Wel-
lington in the Dominion of New
Zealand but latterly of Sydney and
Cobar in the State of New South
Wales in the Commonwealth of
Australia, Laborer, deceased.
PURSUANT to an Order made by His
II on or Mr. Justice Cooper under Sec-
tion 74 of the Trustee Act, 1908, on the
second day of August, 1913, in the matter of
the above estate all creditors and others
(INCLUDING THEREIN THOSE
CLAIMING AS NEXT OF KIN OF THE
SAID GEORGE TUCKWELL) having
claims against the estate of 'the said de-
ceased are required to send in their claims
to The Public Trustee, Wellington, New
Zealand, on or before the 31st May, 1914,
and in default of any such claims The
Public Trustee will on the last mentioned
date proceed to distribute the assets of the
said deceased having regard only to. the
claims of which he shall then have notice.
DATED at Wellington. New Zealand,
this 2nd day of August, 1913.
J. W. MACDONALD,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office.
NOTE :—The said George Tuckwell was
by an Order of the said Court on the 23rd
March. 1911, presumed to be dead. He was
a native of Wellington and left to reside in
New South Wales. Claimants must 'for-
ward full particulars of the parents of the
said George Tuckwell, his brothers and
sisters, the date of his birth and a resume of
his life, which information will be checked
with the true facts in the possession of The
Public Trust Office.
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
Over 30 years ago the late Lord
Beaconsfield testitied to the benefits
he received irom Hitnrod’s
Asthma Powder and every
post brings simdar letters
to-day.
ASTHMA
Famed for 40 Years.
Best remedy lor Asthm i
Hay hever, Kose Coid or
ord nary Cough. $
■ Sc ill in Tim by au Chtmisu and Starts
throughout Australasia.
ARE YOU FAIR TO YOURSELF?
■yOU begin to
* look old, with
ihose grey and
faded hairs,
always so con-
spicuous. A
bottle of t)ie
world -famed
Lockyen's
Hair Restorer, 1/6
gives health to the Hair and restores the
natural colour. It cleanses the scalp; is
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
, DON’T LOOK OLD.
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE.
Made in England. Perfectly
harmless, indetectahle,
and guaranteed free
from Nitrate of
Silver and Lead
Salts.
IN VARIOUS
SHADES Raven
Black, Black,
Brown, Eight or
Golden Brown,
Blonde, Chestnut
and Auburn
Price 3/6, posted 3/11
Directions with 'every
bottle.
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 The Block Arcade, Collins St., Melbourne
SPRING and SUMMER
STOCKS Now Opened.
New Suitings
This Season we have made an
additional importation of a selec-
tion of designs exclusively reserved
to us in single suit lengths only.
Soliciting the favor of a visit of
inspection.
David BrahamSCo.
Tailors and Costumers,
76 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
(Between George and Pitt Streets.)
“ISO” is a sure cure
for Eczema. It soothes
and heals and is
prompt and effective.'
Send 3d. (in stamps)
for liberal sample tube
to BLACK, Chemist,
COLLINGWOOD, TIC.
Amusements.
“A MERRY XMAS” FOR 6d.
THE GREAT WHITE CITY
1 OF A THOUSAND DAZZLING DELIGHTS.
THE MECCA OF THE MERRYMAKER.
THE HOME OF KING CARNIVAL.
SPECIAL HOLIDAY PROGRAMMES..
FREE ATTRACTIONS IN OPEN-AIR
THEATRE.
THE SAVOLAS, Demons on the High Wire.
THE DECARS, and TOMATO—THE ASS.
PROMENADE CONCERTS.
WHITE CITY MILITARY BAND.
u •
OPEN: BOXINGAIAY, 10 a.m. to 11 p.m.
SATURDAY, 2 p.m. to 11 p.m.
HER MAJESTY'S THEATRE. SYDNEY.
Direction J. C', WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
THE REVUE OF REVUES.
COME OYER HERE.
The Most Stupendous Entertainment ever Staged in
Australia.
PLANS AT PALING’S.
ADELI’Hi THEATRE. SYDNEY.
Direction GEORGE WILLOUGHBY, LTD.
EVERY EVENING.
PANTOMIME AT CHRISTMAS.
“ALADDIN” PAN TOM] ME.
A Wonderful Assembly qf Picturesque Scenes.
Favorite Artists and World-famed Novelties.
POPULAR PRICES: 4/-,3/-, 2/- and !/■
PA I. AC E THE AT HE. SYI>N K Y.
Direction WILLIAM ANDERSON.
EVERY EVENING.
THE AMERICAN MUSICAL BURLESQUE CO.
’6O SINGERS AND DANCERS AND 4 COMEDIANS.
In the Exciting Musical Racing Revel,
A DAY AT THU RACES.
Box Plan at PALING’S.
PRICES: 5/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-
NATTONAI. AMPHITHEATRE. SYDNEY.
Governing Director: BEN J. FULLER.
BRENNAN-FULLER’S VAUDEVILLE CIRCUIT.
EVERY EVENING AT ,8.
THE VAUDEVILLE SENSATION OF AUSTRALIA.
CHRISTMAS VAUDEVILLE
PANTOMIME.
A Revue of America’s and Europe’s Music Hall
Headliners, comprising more than 30 Artists, in a
programme of unusual excellency and brilliancy.
PRICES: 3/-, 2/-, 1/6, 1/- Plan at Theatre.
THE Best Stories Written by Australian
Writers appear in The Lone Hand
Magazine. Price, 6d. monthly.
WHEN YOU SHAVE WITH A “PLUM”
v V
* a.
You get that measure of comfort which every shaver desires.
A keen cutting blade that is accurately tempered allows of easy shaving
ahvays. Qg T A ..p LUM - RAZOR, 10/6 POST FREE.
You’ll be pleased with the ease with which you can shave with a
“Plum.”
It’s a real treasure, that makes your daily shave a pleasure.
We guarantee to keep it in perfect order for two years, free of charge.
ALL POST FREE.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle 10/6
Pair, in Double Case, an excellent set • 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, splendid quality Jo/b
Pair, in Double Case, a handsome present •••• 30/-
Plum Razor Strop 10/6 and 7/6
Other Good Kinds, thoroughly reliable from 3/6
Plum Strop Dressing makes keener blades tube 1/-
Stick of Shaving Soap that lathers freely 1/-
Razors Ground and Set with care 1/-
Safety Razors, handy and efficient from 5/6
C. & A. Moustache Trainer, shapes the moustache, worn at night—-
Send for our Illustrated Price List. 2/6, 3/6, 5/6
CRAIG & AITK.EN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED 30 YEARS.
\
‘ .
i
Give a sense ol security which carries
the user confidently over the roughest
roads by night or day.
AVON Products include the following Articles »
MOTOR,
MOTOR-CYCLE S
CYCLE TYRES,
in many qualities
a. n d / patterns,
►fyfecfell f suited
for hUrd Colonial
use, on account of
their renowned
durability.
CYC.L E-C A It
TYIt E S for all
types of this popu-
lar new vehicle.
SOLID TYRES
FOR MOTORS,
etc.
Steel Band Type
for ’buses and other
heavy vehicles.
Clinched-on type
for lighter vehicles
up to 2 tons.
Carriage Tyres,
’Rickshaw Tyres,
Trolley Tyres, etc.
Made up o„n a spe-
cial centre' jybich
forms the nucleus
for the winding of
Para tape.
Avon, 2/-; Nova,
1/3; Arc, 1/-
(Several types).
Strip for insulating,
golf-ball making,
etc.
t>
Compounded Rub-
ber and Proofed
Canvas for tyre re-'
pairs.
Heel Pads in vari-
ous patterns.
MECHANICAL
RUBBER GOODS
FOR RAILWAYS,
etc.
Buffer and Draw-
bar Springs, Vac-
uum Pipes. Dia-
phragms and other
Brake Materials:
Body Fittings:
Valves; Hose, etc.,
specially adapted
for use in the
Tropics.
THE AVON INDIA RUBBER CO.. LTD.,
Cable
Codes: — A.B.C. sth Edition
and Western Union.
MELKSHAM Wilts., ENGLAND.
Br-aches at London, Bristol, Birmingham, Manchester, Glasgow and Paris.
AUSTRALIA:’ H. C. Panifex, Melbourne, Victoria; Fothergil & Co., 16
Mouatt Street, Fremantle.
NEW ZEALAND: Guinness & Le Cren, Waimate, Agents for Avon Motor and
Motor Cycle Tyres & Accessories; Grapes & Riley, Agents for Avon Solid
Tyres for Commercial Vehicles, Mechanical Rubbers and Golf Balls.
Amusements.
QLACIARIUM AND^m^MilATivDNir.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEE—SATURDAY.
DE GROEN’S VICEREGAL ORCHESTRAS.
3d. to 2s. Plans at, Nicholson’s (No Extra Feel
gPK N C K It’S I. VC E U m7 _ SY lUMeT
The World’s Best Pictures.
COMMENCING BOXING NIGHT.
S C It O 0 G ij.
Adapted from ‘‘A Christmas Carol,” by CHART Fs
' DICKENS.
PRICES: 1/6, 1/- &6d. BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
ImT E RI A I FiTT TK V
WILLIAM STREET, ( HYDE PARK, SYDNEY. ’
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
ALL STAR FEATURE PICTURES.
EVERY EVENING.
A MTRACLE PLAY
(SISTER BEATRIX.)
PRICES POPULAR.
y OICE PRODUCTION AND SINGING.
MR. ROLAND FOSTER,
who is specially recomniended as a teacher by
MADAME CLARA BUTT
and
MR. KENNERLEY RUMFORD,
also by SIGNOR TULLIO VOGIIERA and Mr. W. J.
SAMUELL (Quinlan Opera Co.),
will open a studio in Sydney early in the New
Year. Auditions and interviews December 20 on-
wards. EXPERT PREPARATION for every branch
of the profession and all fexams. Thorough tuition
in Breathing, Tone Production, Diction, Style and
Interpretation. Professionals coached in Oratorio,
Opera, Linder, etc.
Address: c/O J." & N. Tait, Nieholson’s.
Edward branscoatbes
FIVE COMPANIES OF
*D A N DIES
Appear Nightly at
EDEN GARDENS, MANLY.
CREMORNE GARDENS, BRISBANE.
ESPLANADE, ST. KILDA.
EXHIBITION GARDENS, ADELAIDE.
OLYMPIA, PERTH.
RICK A It Ds’ T lVOhl Tli EA T It K.
Governing Director .. HUGH D. McINTOSH.
JOSEPHINE DAVIS, Character Comedienne.
DLT C A LION on" the Tottering Ladder.
BARTON & ASHLEY, in “Adam the Second.”
FERRY CORWEY, Musical Clown."
PASQUALI - BROS., Equilibrists.
E. FREDERIC HAWLEY & CO., in Vaudeville
Melodrama.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
Prices: 5/-, .4/- and 1/-
|.~E R A II OUS E. MKLItOL It N E.
Governing Director: Mr. HUGH D. McINTOSH.
ROSA ROMA, Gipsy Violinist.
THE SCHMETTANS, Famous Continental Athletes.
DOODY and WUIpHT, Knockabout Sketch Artists.
FRANK PARISH, Sensational Barrel Jumper.
THE FIVE PETLEYS, Trampoline Artists.
THE CLEMENDOS, Continental Acrobats.
REYNOLDS ANt) DONEGAN, Novelty Skaters.
ALBERTI MARINI, Italian Tenor.
Plan at Allan’s. IMT PRICES—4s., 35., 2s„ Is,
THIi KING’S THBAT ItK, MELItOIiItNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager: William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
First Production in Australia of the Mirthful Musical
j Fantasy,
THE LAND QE NOD.
POPULAR PRICES. PLANS AT ALLAN’S.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietors: GEO. WILLOUGHBY LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Geo. Willoughby Ltd. presents
an Entirely New Dramatisation of
UNCLE TOM’S CABIN.
IDMISSTON: 4/-, 3/-,, 2/-, II- Plan at Pianola Cm
HER MAJESTY’S THEATKE. MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
first Production of the Stupendous Pantomime
Extravaganza,
THE EOBTY THIEVES.
>lan at Allan’s. Prices: 6s„ I _and
■p HKA T R E ROA’ A L, .MELBOURNE-
■ Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd. ;
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, DECEMBER 27.
jFWIS WALLER, together with Miss
’ TITHERADGE, and a Complete Company,
MONSIEUR BIiAUCAIRIi.
’ nlc c l L s ,i. n .r S’f.
osiym pS a. °- r »«r As,:
(Just across Princes' Bridge).
VHERE'ARE TO BE SEEN THE UNRU
SPENCER’S PICTURES.
POPULAR PRICES FO* PERFECT PICTURES.
SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS Af 2.30.
EVERY NIGHT AT 8
fEST’S PAUCL jfeE LBOH » N E
' BEST WEST’S PICTURES the best
? ALL LIMITED. West.
Managing Director: Mr. j-J: J; Satu rdays.
GHTLY AT 8. Matinees Wednesdays,
and All Holidays at 2.3 • Wobld.
e Greatest Pictorial _E n t KR .I’IVY,q ph E R ES.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO to be seen
v Moving Picture Worthy of ? week-
(VEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change■ Y
Prices —6d. to 2s. Box p]anjßGlens___
»IR C H & C A RB 0 L 1
I (Queensland). -., VA pt-ns.
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE
’laying Pictures and VaudeviUe in to
centres (excepting Brisbane) irom
arters Towers. managed over this
Pours of Legitimate C°nwm«Theatre* 0<
ite, appearing in all the L® a ° uls
ich we have the Booking Control era , pjhn
tepresentatives in Queensland foi the
npanv of Australasia Ltd. BRISBANE-
ad Office: ROTHWELL
IHE Australian Magazine. THE
L HAND, the National Monthly. ir ice


ECZEMA ALE
OVER LITTLE GIRL
•
Could Not Stick Pin Between Sores.
As if Scalded. Broke and Formed
Sores. Pitiful to See. Cuticura
Soap and Ointment Cured Her.
•—
Italians, Via Ballarat, Vic.—“My little
girl, Violet, has suffered With eczema ever
since vaccination some five years ago. The
teczema Caine out all over her; you could not
stick a pin between the sores and more espe-
cially in her joints. It was like as if she
had been scalded, and the blisters used to
break and form sores which were full of
humour. It was pitiful to see her.
“I tried ointments and several other
remedies but derived no benefit, so I sent
an order for Cuticura Ointment, and am
pleased to say after using two tins and
bathing well with the Cuticura Soap she
is cured and the Cuticura Remedies have
cured her. I used to apply them in the
following manner: bathe with Cuticura
Soap morning and night and apply Cuti-
cura Ointment on linen after bathing.”
(Signed) Mrs. W. Peel, October, 1912.
Do you wish to improve your complexion,
hands or hair? If you wish a skin clear of
pimples, blackheads and other annoying
eruptions, hands soft and white, hair live
and glossy, and scalp free from dandruff
and itching, begin to-day the regular use
of Cuticura Soap for the toilet, bath and
shampoo, assisted by an occasional light
application of Cuticura Ointment. No
other method is so agreeable, so often effec-
tive and so economical in treating poor com-
plexions, red, rough hands, and dry, thin
and falling hair, as well as eczemas,
rashes and other eruptions. Cuticura Soap
and Cuticura Ointment are sold throughout
the world. Liberal sample of each mailed
free, with 32-p. Skin Book. Address R.
Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Constipation and
Sluggish Liver
Don’t take chances. Get CARTER’S
LITTLE LIVER PILLS right now. They
never fail to make the liver
do its duty. They cure con-
stipation, banish indi-
gestion, drive out
biliousness and the
blues, stop dizzi-
ness, clear the
complexion,
put a healthy
glow on the
cheek and
Carters
Uttle*
IVER
PILLS.
sparkle in the eye. There are many imitations. Be
sure and get CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER PILLS. The
pill is small, dose is small, price is small, but results
are alright. The GENUINE must bear signature
AN INTERESTING
EXPERIMENT.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey Hairs
make, just lay a piece of paper over each of the two
halves of the above portrait. The Grey “half” will
then be seen to have the appearance of 45 years of
age, whereas the other half looks only 30. Dr. B.
Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut Stain will make
all those years of difference if you are grey or prema-
turely grey. It is perfectly harmless, easy to apply,
and will quickly restore the Hair to the natural shade
of youth, or younger years.
Dr. B. ALLEN’S oj.s.a.)
Mexican WALNUT STAIN
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suitable
for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or Moustache.
CARBIDE.
Por First-Class
Results use
Best
PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it <£n be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMII tu, OZ
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Ag nts for Australia.
PVGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
-city or country should mis* s -
I Was bald
And came into possession* of the
secret of a Genuine Hair Grower*
My Hair Grew to its Present Length in 40 Days.
Mr. CRAVEN
BURLEIGH
From a recent
photograph.
Titis ANMOUNCfeMfeNt is of special interest tb every MaN
AND WOMAN who has previously tried other HAIR-GROWING PREPARA-
TIONS. If you have HAD NO SUCCESS WITH OTHERS, please write to
me. I REFRAIN from expressing any personal opinion as to other prepara-
tions, but point to the vast array of letters received from patrons, who,
HAVING TESTED numerous advertised compounds, washes, etc., without
benefit, used my nomade, and FOUND IT TO BE EXACTLY AS REPRE-
SENTED—A TRUE HAIR GROWER. It is always prepared in accordance
with the formula with which my name has become famous, and which is
endorsed by NOTED ANALYTICAL EXPERTS OF ENGLAND, GERMANY,
FRANCE AND THE UNITED STATES. It can be Shown by many letters
which I receive that, IN A FEW DAYS AFTER THE FIRST APPLICATION,
THE HAIR BEGINS TO GROW, AND CONTINUES UNTIL A HEALTHY,
STRONG, PERMANENT GROWTH IS MANIFEST.
Those who are troubled with falling hair, dandruff, baldness, itching sdalp, etc., ktlow full well
the humiliation that they cause. There is no need, however, of such conditions. These troubles can
be quickly overcome by my True Hair Grower.
10,000 Free Trial Boxes
My offer is a straightforward, honest proposition from a business mail to setisible men and women.
The merit of my TRUE HAIR GROWER is in the preparation itself, not in the advertising. If you
will write to me I will send you a TRIAL BOX of the JOHN CRAVEN BURLEIGH TRUE fIAIR
GROWER. I make this offer because I want YOU to know just what my True Hair Grower will do.
I was bald, it cured me, and it has cured thousands of others, Package will be sent Secuteiy sealed
in plain wrapper.
BALDNESS, DANDRUFE, ITCHING, ETC,
FREE TRIAL COUPON.
Cut out this Coupon, and send with 3 stamps, to cover postage* etc., and t will
immediately'post a trial box of my True Hair Grower.
JOHN CRAVEN BURLEIGH, DEPT. T, 193 CASTLEREAGri STREET*.
SYDNEY.
M
Y
Ideal for
Australian
Roads.
I \
CYCLES AND MOTOR CYCLES.
Victoria and Tasmania:
MILLEDGE BROS., 264 Post Office Place, Melbourne.
New South Wales:
BENNETT & BARKELL LTD., 130-132 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
South Australia:
JAMES HILL & SONS, Representatives, 63 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
EYLES & CROWLE LTD., Distributors, 75 Pirie Street, Adelaide.
West Australia:
THE ARMSTRONG CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, Hay Street, Perth.
Queensland:
THE HOWARD MOTOR & CYCLE CO., LTD., ' 376-8 Queen Street, Brisbane.
illliliLJ 1
iliii
*
m
ilium
o
JE
m
in
Because the Body-Building Power of Bovril has been
proved to be from 10 to 20 times the amount taken.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original anti Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Pricas in
England—
1/I}, 2/9 & 4/6. Made in England.
Checks Fever-
ishness, end
effectually
cuts short all
attacks at
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
GOUGHS, OOLOS, ASTHMA, and In
‘ho oouffh of BROHCHITIS and
COHSUMPTIOH.
Aota llko a charm In
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY.
r-
Odorless BreatH
is but one of the many advantages that Pebeco
provides. Cleaner, whiter, stronger teeth, firmer,
healthier gums, and a high standard of mouth
health, all inevitably follow its night and morning
use.
OBTAINABLE ALL CHEMISTS.
Trial Tube of Pebeco, with interesting book and
test papers, free for three penny stamps, on appli-
cation to the Sole Agent,
G. ARNOLD
(Dept. M), 6 O’Connell Street, Sydney
(WHOLESALE ONLY). [1
Business, Robbery, etc.
Advt. from London Daily Mail: —
AERIAL chauffeur desires engagement with lady or
gentleman, after October 10th: monoplane or bi-
plane.—Apply Box MBB7B, London.
Looks as if this old globe will soon be an aeroplanet.
* * A *
The casual Australian again. Money and valuables
to the amount Of £68,268 Were discovered in letters and
packets which reached the Commonwealth Dead Letter
Office in the past 12 months. Of this* no less than
£lB4l Was in letters and packets posted Without any
address at all. The postal people remember these
little things and smile bitterly When they hear jlodgy
citizens talk about the rotten management of Social-
istic services*
* * * *
There ik a great scooping up of mud and ooze
ill the shallow channels about Melbourne just now.
All the dredges are hard at work, and the marine
slime of ages is sliding and splashing into the
hoppers, of which there are not enough. The clean-
up is being proceeded with vigorously, because the
channels have been allowed to silt up until the
actual depth is a couple of feet less than the
registered* ditto. A few inches more or less would
mean nothing much to a port like Hobart, but Mel-
bourne sees ruin in the distance when the mud is a
little thicker than usual. Even the coveted battle-
cruiser can’t get into the bay until it has fired away
some of its heavy ammunition, burnt a good part of
its coal, shaved off most of the bosun’s whiskers and
taken the superfluous flesh off the crew. Still
by dint of heroic mud-shifting, Melbourne is keeping
up, more or less, with the marine times; but the
taxpayer is bleeding for it, and the nerves of the
mariners who have to claw and skate their ships
through the gutters in the sea-bed are as taut as
banjo-strings.
Comparison of food prices and rents in Maori-
land’s four chief cities is slightly in favor of
Dunedin. Bread is one penny per 2lb. loaf cheaper
there than in Auckland, and a halfpenny cheaper
than in Wellington and Christchurch; 251 b. of flour
is quoted at 2s. 10d., as against 3s. 4d. in Auck-
land, 3s. in Wellington and 2s. lid. in Christchurch ;
i-ton of coal costs from ss. to 95., while in Christ-
church it costs from 7s. 6d. to 10s. 6d., in Auck-
land from Bs. 6d. to 9s. 6d., and in Wellington
from Bs. 3d. to 9s. 6d. ; and forequarter of mutton
is 3d. per lb. in Dunedin, 4d. in Auckland, and
in the other places. For house rents Welling-
ton is the most expensive. Four-roomed shacks there can
be had for 16s. to 18s. a week; in Auckland, 10s.
to 15s. ; Christchurch and Dunedin Bs. to 15s. A
six-roomed house in Wellington brings the rentlord
from 245. to 30s. ; in Auckland, 18s. to 275. 6d. ;
Christchurch and Dunedin 15s. to 235.
*****
“Marloo”: A shire council recently received this
amongst its answers to an advt. for a surveyor and
sanitary inspector, at a salary of £BO: —
Dear Sir, —Herewith receive my application for
the dual positions of surveyor and sanitary inspector.
I am good looking, speak eight languages, and am
learning others. In addition to performing the duties
mentioned in the advt., I am willing (without extra
remuneration) to act as caretaker of municipal build-
ings and fireman, and assist in cleaning the streets
and collecting house refuse.
Should the soil be clayey, 1 will make bricks in my
spare time.
I have spent £6OO to qualify as a sanitary engi-
neer, but I think the position you offer would give
me scope to complete my education in municipal
work.
I attach only one condition to this application,
Viz., that permission be granted me to keep fowls
and a cow, so that I may provide the poor of the
district with eggs and milk free.
Somehow the councillors didn’t appoint him.
“Cash with Order”: The price of the “life study”
photo, of the kind liable to be seized by the Cus-
toms, is going to drop, owing to the simple fact
that the Customs won’t get a chance to rtab it. It
is being produced, and that most artistically, inside
the Commonwealth. My friend dropped on the
scent while out after rabbits. Novelists are fond of
calling a scene “indescribable”; this one was —in
print. He thinks it was because he was carrying a
gun that the man with the camera received him
without violence, though coldly, after the actors had
fled. Art Photography was the trade name of the
proceeding, and the demand was alleged to be good.
One young man, one older one, and three young
women (one of them little more than a child) were
the co., and they took it in turns to work the
camera. A lively imagination, and evidently a
considerable amount of classical education, com-
pleted the outfit. The discoverer won’t say where
the camp was, except that it was within 20 miles of
a G.P.O.
* * * *
“U.S.”: A New York Insurance concern talks of
putting up a 60-storey building, 901 ft. high. The
highest existing is the Woolworth, 756 ft., and 50
storevs —qver twice the height of St. Paul’s, London,
and 200 ft. loftier than the Great Pyramid. Next
comes the Metropolitan, 685 ft., 46 storeys; third,
the Singer, 612 ft., 42 storeys. There are in N’York
10 sky palaces, or “cliffs,” as they are locally
styled, with a total population of 73,000 in business'
hours, or more than 7000 apiece as an average. The
Metropolitan has the astounding number of 15,000.
Thus 10 roofs cover more people than Ballarat and
Bendigo together. New York land costs even more
than soil in London. A corner of Broadway and
Wall-street has been sold for £l2O sterling the
square foot, or over £5,000,000 sterling the acre.
The oldest existing record of sale shows that this
lot went for £l2O the acre. The rest is value
created by the community and collared by the in-
dividual. The building of skyscrapers in N’York is
due to the business part of the city being packed
into the tongue of land known as Manhattan —be-
tween the Hudson and East River. The erection of
such buildings in uncramped Chicago is only bravado ;
yet there was a time when Chicago capped New York
with the 33-storey Masonic Temple.
* * * *
The youth was teller in the bank at Smithsville,
and used £35 of the bank’s money. When the
manager checked the cash the ingenious youth would
hand the head a roll of~ (say) a hundred notes, and
when that was counted he would slip 35 notes from
the counted roll to another, and so it appeared that
he had £35 more than he really did have. One day
he received instructions to proceed at once to Brigh-
ton for a fortnight. That was awkward. But he
managed it. He went to the boss, represented
that his father was ill and needed £35 immediately,
and asked the chief to cash his cheque for that
amount on the Cross Roads branch. The manager
did so, whereupon the youth promptly paid the
coin into his cash, and so made good his shortage.
When he arrived at Brighton he took £35 out of
the cash there and wired it to Cross Roads to meet
his cheque. When his time was up at Brighton he
worked the same game on the boss there as he had
on his own manager. Arrived back at Smithsville,
he took £35 out of his cash again and wired it to
meet his second cheque at Cross Roads. Then the
inspector came. The ingenious youth swindled him
as he had the manager by slipping 35 notes from a
counted roll to another pile. The next morning the
inspector was leaving. On the platform of the rail-
way station he overheard someone remark what a
bad night the teller had had at cards. Result:
The inspector went back and counted the cash
again. While he was doing so the youth went across
to the local branch of the other bank, got 35 notes
“on the exchange book,” took them over to his own
office, and so had a balance. But in making up his
cash the night before he had included the £35 as
being in gold. Therefore he was now £35 short in
his gold and £35 over in his notes. Mr. Inspector
asked for an explanation. The youth said that the
other bank had come in on the previous evening,
after he had made up his cash, and asked for £35
in gold for 35 of their notes. “Well,” says Mr. In-
spector, “you don’t mind if I step over and verify
that?” He was stepping, when it dawned on the
youth that the game was up. Final result: An
ingenious youth saeked, the managers at three
branches carpeted, and an inspector put up one.


The Recognised Leading House for all
SMOKERS & SHAVERS’ REQUISITES
PIPES
H
1
C
H
*2s.
*'o
G
R
k
D
E
S.N.Ii. Pipes, made from finest quality old
briar root, with superior hand-cut Para vul-
canite mouthpieces. Heavy Silver mounts.
All shapes ........ 3/- each (post free)
PIPES EVER
‘Goudron,” finest quality
Natural Block
Meerschaum Pipes.
THE
SWEETEST
AND
COOLEST
SMOKING
PRODUCED.
Para Vulcanite Mouthpieces, in case,
8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 14/6, 16/6, 21/-
each (post free).
Natural Pressed Amber Mouthpieces,
in case,
12/6, 14/6, 16/6, 18/6, 25/- each
(post free).
CIGARS. « oa d M t 'luxe
“Golden Key”
Cigars, of exquisite
aroma and infinite
eliarm.
The Standard
of Luxury
in Smoking.
fc*i -.1X1”
* "
Put up in cedar cabinets containing
25 cigars, 11/6; 50 cigars, 22/6
(post free).
Sample boxes of 5 cigars, 2/6 (post
free).
CIGARETTES.
Delightful, Fascinating
“Three Witches”
Cigarettes, made from
selected, sun-ripe
Virginian Tobacco.
Finest quality.
5/- per 100 (post
free;.
Jhree Witches
,'L
$
y., "
a&.
W|#
C Bnoßßis
&50NSl Tt >
TOBACCOS.
‘Sunol,” highest grade Virginian, awarded 4
gold medals. Dark or Light. In plug or
cut, 6/- per lb. (post free).
‘Lonus” Smoking Mixture, choicest tobaccos,
skilfully blended. Put up in 2oz. tins.
8/6 per lb. (post free).
Tobacco Poticbes
H
A
N
Y
«3r
1
m.
s■:£
c
0
M
P
A
G
T
Wallet Pouch, Split Calf 2/9
„ „ Heal Morocco .. 3/6
„ „ Calf Crocodile .. 4/6
„ „ Gazelle 5/-
„ „ Velvet Calf .... 6/6
POCKET LIGHTERS.
The “Sunol” Pocket
Lighter. Every smoker
should have one. Simple
in construction. Nothing
to get out of order.
2/- each (post free).
CIGAR and CIGARETTE
HOLDERS.
Amber Cigar Holders, silver rim,
in case, 6/6, 7/6 each.
Amber Cigar Holders, gold rim,
in case, 10/6, 11/6 each.
Amber Cigarette Holders, silver
rim, in case 4/- 4/6 each.
Amber Cigarette Holders, gold rim, in
case 7/6, 8/6 each.
SHAVING SETS.
N
O
T
H
I
N
Q
mmm
u
B
E
T
T
E
R
Shaving Sets, comprising 1 renowned C. 8.8.
Razor, 1 C. 8.8. Razor Strop, 1 Badger Hair
Shaving Brush, and stick Williams's Soap—
-18/6 (post free).
RAZORS
R
A
R
E
Q
u
A
L
I
T
Y
The “Hitite” Razor, pronounced by experts
to be absolutely perfect. None to
equal it. Kept in good order for 2 years,
free of charge—
Vulcanite Handle 7/0 each (post free).
Ivory Handle 10/6 each (post free).
SAFETY RAZORS.
The Celebrated “Auto Strop” Safety
Razor, complete with 12 blades and strop,
in leather case 22/6 (post free).
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
Head Depot: Haymarket, Sydney
Branches : CITY, SUBURBS and NEWCASTLE.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dog's Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
Y.
art
ku
1
if
t, i
I ’ • •rj
- /
s
I /
\V\U
w
'S%
O'A!
Favorite, Marksman,
Crackshot, Little Scout
& Visible Loader Rifles
are highly suitable for every outdoor boy,
man and woman shooter. Unerringly accu-
rate —light, portable, take-down —made in
all standard small-bore calibres.
STEVENS RIFLES, SHOTGUNS, PIS-
• TOLS, are for sale by all progressive
I Dealers.
Write for general Catalogs—detailed infor-
mation, etc., to
ARTHUR H. HILL,
Australian Representative for J. Stevens Arms
& Tool Company,
Q.P.O. Box 86, Adelaide, South Australia. [6
Hade in
England
Underwear
3QVUJ.
The “BIRD MARK” on your Underwear
is a guarantee that the garments are made from
the finest Australian Lambswool and Cotton,
and in some qualities Silk is added.
The garments also have patented improve-
ments and fit the figure perfectly.
The most perfect underwear for hot weather
is the “BIRD MARK” Merino and Silk
Underwear, it will stand hard wear yet light in
weight.
Sold by all Drapers and Outfitters.
Wholesale only
I. & R. MORLEY and GEO. BRETTLE & CO.,
London, E.C
Ask for THE ‘ BIRD MARK' MERINO UNDERWEAR
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co., Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1913 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrik
England, 6d. Howto Gkt Rich, Is pasted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
TiiOßStON’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Datk Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist'; latest edition, 3s-6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Games,
Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. The' Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life.
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’Cuide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow's Book of Strength. 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. :History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce. 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Nor Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d The Art of Jiu-Jitsu,' 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain fop. the
British, 6d. llow to Read Faces, is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d, Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
llow to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is 6d.
ft
i
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
11TBRACTN0
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E B. FOOTE
Plates. 36 Chromos 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young' and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior.guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and -wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE
HP- BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.-*!
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS-LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Skcrkts and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyles
Card Games (Rules for all Gaines), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy Rivep,, 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. The White Slave Traffic, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easj-, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Gd.
Self Instructor : Evert Man His Own Schoolmaster
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, 13 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Bowers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
oth rs, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee's Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my....
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d Dost. Ur. Milford s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, -s
Aristotle, 3/6. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems, complete,
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of 1 •
King, Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post,
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is -a.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, hey to
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. \KST , Po ™,
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, /■ Bdvo*.
Ingbrsoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievasse s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post > ■
Bennarr Macfadden’s Works, all at 5s pos •
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers an.) Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wipes ’
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is P ost ; ' ■
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousne
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster 8 Urge un
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 lllus., le
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 ana
guineas). Bootmaking and Rep a i kin o, Is Rs u
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moores Un
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 101 6 c
bound, 10s Cd posted. The Secrets of Olairvoyanck,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words andmsiccom
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


Mrs. W. M. Smith’s
Daughters
(from a photo.).
Two Rexona Girls
from New Zealand.
“I have used your Rexona Medicated Soap for my two children for
some time, and as a toilet and bath soap I must say that I greatly prefer it
to the many other varieties of similar articles, for the following reasons.
It is much more beneficial for promoting the growth of hair and giving it a
soft, silky feeling, and glossy appearance that I have not noticed in more
expensive articles,” writes Mrs. W. M. Smith, 25 Bowen Street, Dunedin,
N.Z. “For any skin irritation, such as pimples, cuts and scratches, it is
a quick and certain remedy. I also find for the complexion it has most
remarkable virtues at all times, and under the most adverse condition,
keeps the skin soft, cool, fresh-looking, and with the healthy tint so much
sought after. I consider your Rexona Medicated Soap a most valuable
addition to all family homes, and in my own case practically indispensable.”
THE REXONA HABIT
A habit formed is hard to break. Bad habits are easily formed, but good habits can be attained
almost as easily. The Rexona habit results in health and beauty, and once formed will never be
broken.
There are two Rexona hab-
its —that of using Rexona
Ointment to heal all injuries
to the skin, and the Rexona
Soap habit, which consists of
keeping oneself clean and pure
with a delicately-scented and
medicated soap. Rexona Oint-
ment and Rexona Soap mean
skin health and beauty, com-
fort to the user, and immu-
nity from disease. So, form
the Rexona habit. Start with
a cake of Rexona Soap and a
1/6 pot of Ointment. Soon
you will be glad to know that
Rexona Soap is put in dainty
boxes containing three cakes
each, and that Rexona Oint-
ment is also sold in larger-size
triangular pots, containing
nearly four times the quantitiy
of the 1/6 size, which are
sold at 3/- each.
■
'
m
SOAP
CAT
CO
CD\
A REFRESHING SOOTHING
85§S<3 healing antiseptic soa° C>sltig^j
St MEDICATED ON THE SAME PRINCIPLE
SllltlLoVS THE FAMOUS REXONA OINTMENT feggMtfjf;
THE
QUESTION of the DAY.
• v . j< y ■ 1 ' J !. ’ i
The question of to-day,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding . day is
HAVE, YOU USED PEARS’ SOAP ?
If you Have not, you Have not
done your duty by your skin and
complexion. If, on the ‘other band
—tbat is, on botb bands, and on tbe
face, and on tbe skin generally —you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
bappy, for you will bave done tbe
best tbat possibly can be done tor
tbe skin’s bealtb and beauty. Tbere
can be no question about tbat.
PEARS bas been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years.
I
*
MatcHless for the Complexion.
The Harvester.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
DRAWN from out the desert places,
Out of glooms and silent spaces,
Where the winds take form in dark-
r> an( * the ghostly vapors blur,
Ry the hill and through the heather,
Lareless of the hour or weather,
.through the town and through the meadow
journeyed Death, the Harvester.
Proud he rode, with bearing regal;
On his wrist the hooded eagle
fcwift to swoop and fast to follow —none
shall mark the sudden flight!
(aim was he, a horseman knightly,
JNaught ungainly nor unsightly;
4 Ins was Death, the Royal Huntsman,
I riend of All, the Splendid Knight!
Glossy black, liis charger stately
Avi .? sse f the trappings chased ornately,
While the ringing harness quarrelled, silver-
linked with cloth-of-gold ;
Bearing with majestic paces,
rm° ut of Scorns an d silent places,
that great overlord of Buddha, Christ, and
all the gods of old.
Blazoned on his armor golden
Shone his crest and ensign olden —-
Sword and sickle interwoven on a poppied
field of red ;
Through the wheatfields, ripening mellow
w ith their myriad flags of yellow,
Rode he with the shadowy escort of his
countless troops of dead.
Like the leaves of Autumn, drifting,
ddying, skurrying, whispering, lifting
With the gales that rake the forests, came
the motley hordes of ghosts
Drifting past in endless legions,
I rom their dim, tenebrous regions—
All the followers of the Reaper, all the
Pallid Captain’s hosts.
As he passed men ceased from weeping ;
Stopped their plaints, and fell to sleeping.
Each forgot his love or hatred, bowed his
head, and closed his eyes;
Knew no more his hope or sorrow ;
Yesterday had gone, to-morrow
would not ever be; no waking evermore to
earth and skies.
So he rides alone, eternal,
As a god with mien supernal;
Not in arrogance nor anger, quickened not
by any spur;
Bearing, through all shadows fretful,
Largess of a rest forgetful—
Peace alike to every spirit—Friend of All,
the Harvester!
VICTORIA.
C. G. A. COLLES.
The Passing of Inga Sosa.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I FIRST met old Pedro Sosa some 10
years ago. Pedro was the father of
Inga, and to understand what manner
of man the son became one must know
something of his revered parent. Allowing
for difference of race, and a rougher envir-
onment, father and son were examples of
two types not uncommon in the Australia of
20 years ago.
Pedro was a Paraguayan of the usual
campo breed, partly Spanish and mostly In-
dian. He was a small, wizened, monkey-
like man, tough as hickory, and cunning as
a fox. Two years ago, when he was nearly
80, I saw him race his famous mare —riding
bareback, as the fashion is here—on the
course, and, all but, pull off the event. The
mare lost, in spite of good riding, because
she had been underfed; which leads me nat-
urally to tell that Pedro was that'very rare
thing among Paraguayans—a skinflint. He
had a goodly slice of land lying about three
leagues from Oosme Colony, with probably
1000 head of cattle on it. Also, he was reck-
oned to possess a plant of money stowed
away in, or about, his rambling old home-
stead (no bursting banks for Pedro), but
he underfed everything belonging to him
which wanted more than camp grass to eat
—himself, his women, his children, his peons,
even, as 1 have said, his racing mare. Also
he underpaid and overreached —by means of
the law, or without it—-all who fiad dealings
with him.
A noted desperado, one Algerin, and his
band, had paid a surprise visit to the colony,
“ ’twixt the dawn and the day,” and lifted
two of our best horses, what time the colon-
ists were safely dreaming of The Regenera-
tion of Mankind, an Unlimited Meat Diet,
and other unlikely happenings. This being
the last of a long series of crimes committed
in the district, the Government got a move
on, and sent out a big force of soldiers. Al-
gerin, badly wounded, escaped owing to his
excellence as a rider and bushman. His
lieutenant, a gentleman credited with over
20 homicidios, was captured, unwounded, but
“died,” with great suddenness, on his way to
the local town of Caazapff, and the band
generally were either annihilated, or trans-
formed into soldiers after the thrifty Para-
guayan custom.
Some weeks after, we learnt that one of
our missing horses was in the keeping of
Pedro Sosa. How he got there nobody seemed
to know, but, armed with a portentous-look-
ing document, having many seals and signa-
tures, I was despatched to recover him.
Pedro invited me into his galpon, gave my
horse a generous feed of maize, and in a short
time set me in front of a mighty breakfast
of tender beef and trimmings. He also
offered me a second mate’s nip of fine old
cana. This, with a sigh, I passed, but ac-
cepted an excellent cigar, and suggested the
bringing up of the grey horse. The old man,
laying his hand affectionately on my shoul-
der, said that, owing to the respect which he
had for me and for all the Australian colon-
ists, he meant to give us something better
than an old grey horse. Taking me round
to his corral, he produced, for inspection, a
one-eyed, broken-kneed. melancholy-looking
mule, which he described, with much eloquent
blasphemy, as an untiring roadster, and an
animal which dearly loved plough work. Ulti-
mately I got away with the grey and out of
the sound of Pedro’s curses in Guarani.
About a couple of miles this side of the
estancia, the road winds round to escape a
labyrinth of dry watercourses, dead tree
trunks, washed down during floods,. and
matted scrub. Just as I arrived at this un-
lovely spot, a small mob of cattle entered it
- —on the run—from the opposite side. After
them came three horsemen. Tavo of them
promptly and prudently checked their horses,
and wheeled round the clear ground. The
third, who was young Inga Sosa, charged
through the mess-up at a gallop. Doubtless
his fine horse and he both knew the ground
well, but it was a pretty piece of horseman-
ship for all that, and the rider put a neat
finish to his work by dropping his lasso, at
an impossibly long range, over the horns of
one of the fat steers, when they had all
reached the fair ground. His horse stopped
dead, propped out his fore feet, bent his
hind legs till his haunches almost touched
the ground, and, when the shock came to
the tightened rawhide rope, the steer went
down with a crash. It was the best-done
piece of work of the kind I had seen in Para-
guay, and I examined the rider with inter-
est. He was little more than a lad, tall,
with extremely long legs (the sort of legs
that can get a grip all down, and under, a
horse’s. flanks), the promise of a fine chest
and pair of shoulders, an Indian face of the
well-bred type, thin lipped, with straight eye-
brows over eyes which held one with their
direct, unwinking gaze, half fierce, half
haughty.
I saw but little of Inga during the follow-
ing years, but I heard plenty. His father
and he hated each other cordially ; his mother
stuck to him. Absolutely without book edu-
cation—old Pedro didn’t believe in anyone
belonging to him losing time fooling around
school —able even to talk but little Spanish,
there was yet so much unspoiled force and
vigor in the man that he became a little tin
god in the neighborhood. He broke away
from the old he-parent, and raided the pater-
nal herds with a daring and cunning which
drove that worthy person frantic. The suc-
cessful manner of his wooing of women, and
the equally fortunate outcome of his fre-
quent fights with men, his skill and daring
at the rodea (cattle muster), and his untir-
ing grace at the dance, are not these known
to all men, from Santa Catalina to San An-
tonio?
Two years ago Paraguay struck troublous
times, and achieved four revolutions in 12
months. These settled nothing definite, but
paved the way for what may be called the
Old Man Revolution of 1912, which settled
many things, including the earthly careers
of some two to four thousand Paraguayans,
and those of a few odd foreigners whose luck
was out, or who pushed their heads into poli-
tics. The redoubtable Inga came to his own
at this time. After much three-cornered
fighting and intriguing, the struggle resolved
itself into one between the Liberales (who
were actively supported by foreign capital-
ists), and Colonel Jara, who had been suc-
cessively War Minister, President, Dictator
and exile. Jara is old bones now, but he
was a bonnie fighter and a boss intriguer a
year ago. The Liberales, well armed, well
fed, with an overflowing army chest, held
Asuncion and Encarnacion, and with them
the two ends of Paraguay’s one railway line.
Also, they held the rivers, which are Para-
guay’s outlet to the world, with some of the
“Mystery Ships” which the English press
was babbling about a couple of years ago.
In between was Jara, master of a portion of
the line, and with an uncertain hold on the
districts on either side. He had to live on
the country, or not at all. He preferred to
live, and Inga was one of the men who helped
him do it. He rounded up peons, cattle and
horses, looted stores for arms and clothing,
fought, and beat, small detachments of the
enemy wherever he found them. Inga could
find most things he was after.
At the head of his hard-bitten, sleepless
little.force he paid the colony a few visits,
just to borrow, in a friendly way, a fat horse
or two. A fine figure of a man he looked in
thigh riding-boots, khaki tunic, and flapping
sombrero; a mauser across his saddle-bow
and the best of automatics in his belt. A
fat Italian storekeeper in Caazap& sighed for
these lost treasures. During one of Inga’s
absences from that town, the bands of the
other side made a swoop on to it, capturing
old Pedro Sosa by the way. They failed to
find his hidden treasure, and, on arriving at
Caazapd, gave him a brief choice of death, or
ransom. _ The old pirate stood firm on the
sacred rights of Property, and coughed up,
with the last of his blood, a final curse on
all robbers. Inga and his men returned un-
expectedly the same night, and saw the old
man respectably buried, with quite a collec-
tion of strange corpses round him.
After some months of this, finding that
the Liberales refused to attack him, in spite
of their numbers and armament, Jara called
in his scattered outposts and marched on
Asuncion. A considerable portion of the
enemy had left the entrenched base at Para-
guari, a town some distance from the capital,
and was stationed on the line at Ibitimi,
about 24 miles nearer Jara. This force had
mounted a fine 4-inch gun on a railway
truck, and was camped close up on either
side of it. Learning this, Jara, a most in-
genious person, loaded up one of his locomo-
tives with dynamite and other explosives, got
a full head of steam on, and let her go. lie
would have brought oft this fine coup had it
not been for the alertness of a German in-
structor on the other side. Your soldier of
fortune of to-day is no longer the English-
man, but the German, and a mighty fine
adventurer he makes. He sucks in lan-
guages like mother’s milk, has a good head
for liquor, much stolid, enduring patience
in licking raw levies into shape, and never
reckons that he is “quite good enough” (as
I heard one crack shot sav) till nothing can
live within the range of his own rifle or re-
volver. The particular German of Ibitimi
planted a shell from his gun into the loco-
motive almost on sight. Engine, tender,
permanent way and the surrounding scenery
were blasted into nothingness in a twink-
ling.
Leaving a company or so to make a show-
ing, Jara secretly swung his force off the
line, and, travelling through dense forests by
old half-forgotten roads, endeavored to get
between the hostile armies, and attack Para-
guari before they could unite. He did the dis- •
tance in an incredibly short time, inspiring
his army to step out and be lively, partly
by shooting stragglers who suffered from
sore (or cold) fefet, and partly (so it is
said) by promising a three-days’ sack of
Asuncion, to the brave who lived to get
there. On arrival at Paraguari, however,
he found both armies joined. Probably
treachery had been at work; it usually is in
civil wars. Jara attacked with great vigor
and skill, and. in spite of all handicaps,
nearly pushed his way through. The artil-
lery against him was too heavy, however.
His army—what was left of it—rolled back.
(Continued on next page.)


DROPSY
Watery Swellings under the Eyes and in the Ankles, Limbs and Body.
The fluid you take with your food,
in a single month , weighs as much as
your entire body.*
Most of this fluid has to pass out
through the kidneys, bladder and
urinary system.
Imagine what would happen if the
outlets for this water were stopped up !
In a few hours the limbs and body
would swell to a great size with the
collected water.
That is what actually takes place in
dropsy.
Dropsy is the name given to the
soft, watery swellings which appear in
the ankles, limbs and body, under the
eyes pr in the eyelids, or on the backs
of the hands. If you press your finger
into the swollen flesh the pitting slowly
fills up with the water again.
If you are of average weight.)
m.
*8
m w*
DROPSICAL EYES.
DROPSY is not a disease in itself,
bnt it is serious because it indicates
serious disease.
It may show that the kidneys are
failing to separate the waste water from
the blood, or that there is something
obstructing the urinary canals and
preventing the waste water passing out ;
or it may be caused by defective aCtion
of the heart.
Tapping takes away the water from
under the skin, but more water soon
colleCts, because tapping cannot reach
the cause of the dropsy, and as long
as the cause remains the dropsy will
continue.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills have
a quick and diredl action on the kidneys
and bladder. They promote a free flow
from the system, washing out clogging
impurities from the passages, and
draining out the collected water through
the natural channels. They gently
lead the kidneys back to health and
activity, and thus reach the cause of
most cases of dropsy.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills have
no action on the heart, nor on the liver,
stomach or bowels ; they are solely for
the kidneys and urinary system, and
are, therefore, of the highest value in
dropsy, gravel, stone and all diseases
arising from kidney and bladder trouble.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by
all chemists and storekeepers at 2/9 per bott e
(6 bottles 15/3), or post free by Poster-
McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
DOAITS
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
Jara, wounded in the head and abdomen, the
last man on his last gun, checked a counter-
attack of the Liberales. The time had come
for a Forlorn Hope. Calling up his 4W
horsemen, “the flower of his army,” he bade
them ride up a protecting gully and charge
home on the enemy, while he gathered up
his footmen. Through some error —his own
or another’s, I know not —the mounted men
broke cover and rode over a rise on which
was planted a 'fine battery of machine and
field guns. “ Considerably more than half of
the fbl’ce wds a huddled heap of dead and
wounded iPefi and horses in a few minutes;
The tail disappeared. 1
The 1 battery had’ ceased firing, when out
froin the dust ahd the reek, a horseman
canie gallofnng obliquely tbwards it! When
som£ 200 yards off, 1 he seemed to turn his
liorse slightly and mpke straight for its
centre. A soldier, anxious for distinction,
covered the rider with liis mpuser, but Re-
ceived a rap op the head frpm the butt of
the revofver of p German officer. Tfiis sol-
dier of fortune had never seen ope man
charge a battery before, and wanted to
fearp how it was to be done. A fine sight
he made coming up that rise. The great,
rawboned, fiddle-headed roan, his chest
streaming blood from a shell wound, and
the tall rider, Mauser across his saddle-bow
and flapping sombrero, seemed cut out of
one block. Within ten yards of the centre
gun lay a big boulder. Too spent to rise to
it, the roan struck heavily and came down,
a thing all legs and head. The rider sailed
over the rock and lay quiet on his face. The
German ran out and turned him on his back.
He was dead. A rifle, or machine gun, bul-
let had caught him near the heart. With
the last instinct of a rider and a soldier he
had got a final grip with his long legs round
the horse’s flanks, jamming the spurs into
them, and, convulsively grasping his gun,
had, with darkening sight, made for the
middle of what lay in front of him.
So passed Inga Sosa.
D. R. STEVENSON.
The Mulgaland Emporium.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHEN you go into a remote back-
block store it is no use being
fastidious, and setting your mind
on any particular brand or style of goods.
Your tastes must conform to the_ limitations
of the warehouse. You will go in to buy a
black suit, and you will come out with a
grey one —which may be either a size too
small or two sizes too large. Bushmen are
seldom neatly dressed; there is always a
“slop” air about them, their clothes being
too skimpy or far too big. Not infre-
quently, too, the trousers, coat and vest of
the best suit are composed of different
materials and of a strikingly loud pattern.
Dress counts for little outback, and the men
who live there are not particular. Still,
they dress as well as they can, which means
as well as the backblock store will permit
them to.
The storekeeper doesn’t go to the expense
of keeping a buyer, or travelling down to the
city to choose for himself, and commercial
travellers are rarely seen in the far interior.
He depends on price lists and samples by
post, but mostly on the price, buying cheap
goods, and retailing them at a profit of
about 300 per cent.
The prevailing fashions are little thought
of. Fashions, anyhow, are apt to change
while the goods are in transit; for the teams
are often six months, and occasionally
twelve months, on the road. That is
another reason why the backblock folk are
so easily picked out when they visit the
city. They are decades behind the times.
Many of them get their clothes by parcels
post—which is a great source of complaint
to the storekeeper. Some of them get
samples and send their measurements to a
tailor; but as the measurements are often
taken per aid of a piece of string and the
station blacksmith’s rule, as likely as not the
resultant fit makes the would-be well-dressed
boundary-rider look a guy. So most of
them trust to ready-mades when they dress
by post. They do so for cheapness. In all
other respects they have to take pot luck-
in the same way as the stores, many of
which are made a dumping ground for rub-
bish, for last year’s materials, and goods
that have been more or less a drug on the
market. The farther out the store is situ-
ated, and the more inexperienced the pro-
prietor, the more he is imposed on in this
way.
Sometimes the proprietor is a navvy, or a
blacksmith who puts down his tools of
trade to serve a passing traveller with tea
and sugar. Sometimes he is a baker, who
comes in covered with flour and dough to
sell a prospective bridegroom a starched
shirt. Again he is a butcher and a JP-,
who dispenses sausages, softgoods, hard-
ware, groceries and law as required. Again,
the “general store” is sometimes run in con-
junction with an hotel business, and per-
haps with a butchery and bakery in addi-
tion, in which case the customer frequently
departs with empty pockets, and a big swag
of things he has no use for, and for the
purchasing of which he severely censures
himself next morning.
* * * *
Johnny Allsorts’ Mulgaland Emporium
was a conglomeration of many things. In
the first place it was the post office and the
terminus of the mail-coach, the mails beyond
being carried on horseback. He had, there-
fore, many callers on mail day—which was
his busy day—but as many of these got their
light goods by parcels post, and he had to
sort out the packages and deliver them to
the owners, acting thus as a sort of ser-
vant for his rivals down below, they were
not all friends of his. He was not an
amiable man, and he nursed a bitter grudge
against anybody who did not patronise local
industry.
“Help your district by keeping the money
in it,” was Johnny’s motto.
His charges were calculated to keep the
money all under one roof. He was more
than usually acrimonious when the mail
contained tin dishes, perambulators, blan-
kets and such bulky materials. They em-
phasised what Mulgaland was losing, and
the disgraceful lack of pride in the district.
The Emporium was a ramshackle struc-
ture, one storey high, with an iron roof. The
rear half was built of packing cases. From
front to back it was crowded with a won-
derful assortment of things—-mostly things
that nobody ever wanted to buy all mixed
up in a higgledy-piggledy fashion. inere
was scarcely room for more than one to
wriggle into the shop at a time, and bareJj
space enough on the counter to roil up a
parcel. When a customer asked tor any-
thing that was not in frequent request, he
would give Johnny a hand to find it and
thus put in the time. There was not a great
variety of brands, but in boxes behind the
counter there was a fine assortment ot spare
labels, designed—with the help of a paste
brush —to suit all tastes and requirements.
Adelaide preserves were changed to nest
English” in the twinkle of an eye, and Eng-
lish, American and Australian boots were
hauled out of the one case, and priced in
accordance with what the purchaser desired
to call them! . ,
His most profitable line was clothing, tie
was always well-dressed himself that is, he
always had new clothes on. Rarely did he
wear a suit more than a week. Before the
creases had time to disappear he would roll
it up carefully, and replace it on the shelves
for sale. Then he would take a few days
out of another one. Thus, though he wore
as many suits in a year as the greatest
dandy in the land, lie never paid anything
for that kind of dress. Besides affording
him the pleasure of dressing well on nothing
a vear, he considered it an excellent way ot
showing his wares. With a cigar in his
mouth, he strutted about where lie could dis-
play them to the best advantage, and it
they caught somebody’s eye, or provoked a
remark, he plunged at once into business.
It was the most comfortable and best-wear-
ing suit he had ever put on. Had just one
more left —dirt cheap, at so much.
Perhaps the other party would decide to
have a look at it, and a sale would result.
Perhaps Johnny would have only the one
outfit of the sort, in which case lie would
slip into a back room and change. Hats and
caps were treated in the same way; so
were overcoats in winter, and waterproofs
and ginghams in wet weather. When articles
were wanted that were not in stock in the
store, and Johnny said that he had some at
his house, it could be taken for granted that
the family had been making good use of
them. Johnny’s women-folk were accus-
tomed to partially undress at almost any
hour. . , , at
Opposite the Emporium was an hotel. Mr.
Allsorts kept a close eye on that establish-
ment through his window. He noted all the
arrivals, and whenever it seemed worth while
he sauntered across and joined them in a
drink, and afterwards a game of cards, or a
game of billiards. He was always sober,
but nevertheless a good customer to the
publican. He knew the failings of the men
who dwelt in the lonely backblocks. Many
of them came in to do shopping, but left
their shopping till the last, and often made
their purchases when they were too muddled
to know what they were doing. Mr. All-
sorts was an expert at catching the cheque
man at the psychological moment. If he
made no direct allusion to wanting any-
thing, something would be adroitly intro-
duced into the conversation at cards that
would necessitate a visit to the store.
Once in that seclusion, Mr. Allsorts would
warn him as a wellwisher to look out for
the party who ran the hotel. The publican
was a sharper who would take him down if
he got the least chance. The visitor would
be advised in a friendly way, if he had
much money on him, to leave it at the store
for safe custody. This he would probably
do, for it is common for a bushman to hand
his money to someone he knows to look after
for him when he is drinking.
Mr. Allsorts was also a wine and spirit
merchant. His license permitted him to
sell liquor only in wholesale quantities, but
that did not prevent him from giving it away
in nobblers as frequently as he liked. He
was liberal with it to his customers. The
cheque man received a nip as soon as he had
been rescued from the hotel. Then Mr. All-
sorts would be more inclined to talk than to
do business. He would want to know all
the newrn from farther-out, and about all
the people he knew who lived there. In the
course of this chat the bottle would be intro-
duced a couple more times. Then Johnny
would get down to real hard work, and sell
until the cheque was exhausted. In the
account that the customer got when leaving
towm, numerous small sums were set down
as cash, which, it was explained, had been
given to him from time to time and spent at
the hotel. In this way Johnny demonstrated
that lambing down could be accomplished
just as well in a store as in a roadside pub.
Like other backblock storekeepers, lie did
not depend wholly for custom on those who
came to the shop. He travelled round the
stations and sheds periodically with a
hawker’s van, carrying only what he had a
good chance of selling, and taking orders for
anything else. He wanted his van empty
for the return trip, for he bought up sheep-
skins at the sheds. These he stored at the
back of his own premises until he bad
enough to load a waggon. Then with his
own team he took them himself to the near-
est railway town, and brought back a load
of store goods. In the meantime his wife
looked after the Emporium. She did not
take as much in six months as he did in six
weeks. Mrs. Allsorts was too honest. Still
her tenure of office helped to clear the
moral atmosphere.
In his travels he visited all deserted
camps and huts, gathering up anything he
could find that “might come in useful.” lie
never passed a horseshoe or any bit of old
iron on the road. He also purchased old
tools and other second-hand things. His
back premises were choked up with a mis-
cellaneous pile of old lumber—“his forty
years’ gathering.” The main objection
people had to Johnny Allsorts was in regard
to his “shinplasters.” These were simply
“promises to pay”—flimsy notes of the face
value of 10s. and 20s. —but they were not
drawn on any bank, and there was no sound
guarantee behind them ; so they were no use
to anybody outside the district. He loved
to give them in exchange for cheques and
good money, but did not like it a little bit if
he was tendered them in payment for goods.
If any got lost or destroyed in circulation,
that was the issuer’s profit, and Johnny
wanted his notes to be out taking risks—not
lying safely at home.
EDWARD S. SORENSON.


W esting'house
Oil Engine
For STATIONARY
and MARINE
PURPOSES
A
From 7 to 40 H.P.
No Carburetter or Vaporiser.
No Ignition Apparatus.
Makes the following claims upon
your attention—
1— It uses cheap lamp oil (such as kero-
sene), and other residuals.
2 The oil is injected directly into the
cylinder, thus dispensing with unre-
liable and inefficient vaporisers.
3 It is very simple in construction, there
being no electric ignition or other
complicated mechanism.
4 Its speeds are such that electric generators
and centrifugal pumps may be coupled
direct.
5 No skilled labor is required, the supply
of fuel and lubricant being all the
attention necessary.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM
The Vff stinghouse Brake Company of Australasia Ltd.,
GEORGE STREET, CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
New Zealand Agents: Philips & Pike, Wellington.
is*
Fairbanks-Morse
Marine Engines
For Pleasure and Work Boats
Start without cranking, run smoothly, de-
velop full rated power. Simple, compact.
All parts interchangeable. Remarkable for
their reliability and economy. High Speed
Engines, 3*4 to 24 H.P. Slow Speed
Engines, 7% to 15 H.P.
Ask for Catalog
CV 1939.
Fairbanks-Morse Oil Engines
Operate on Kerosene, Petrol (Gasoline) or Distillate
Stationary and Portable sizes, 2 to 200 H.P
Ask for Catalog AL 1939.
Fairbanks-Morse Eclipse Engines
Small, sturdy Engines, especially suited for
pumping or running light machinery.
Simple, compact. Two sizes. Will operate
windmill pump. Ask for Catalog 1939
Fairbanks, Morse & Co.,
Chicago, 111., U.S. A.
AGENTS—
C. H. Ralph, Webster 8 Co. Ltd.,
Sydney, N.S.W. Brisbane, Queensland.
wm
V'-'
Type
ii »f
7^H.P.
Mallach Bros.,
Parth, W.A.
TWO GOOD LINES FOR STEAM USERS.
NOT a Boiler Fluid, but a Preparation containing Pure Carbon to be applied
to the internal surfaces of boilers like a paint. Absolutely prevents pitting and
corrosion and the deposit of hard scale. Used regularly by the New South
Wales Government Railways and Tramways, Sydney Municipal Council, and
many of the Largest Steam Users in Australia.
AULD’S REDUCING VALVES.
The World’s Standard Reducing Valve for Steam, Air or Water. Simple and
Reliable. Hundreds in use in Australia. We carry heavy stocks of all sizes.
ALSO AGENTS FOR—
Engelbert’s Famous Oils, Nichols’ Boiler Feed Pumps,
Stirling Water Tube Boilers, etc., etc.
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
GOLDFIELDS DIAMOND DRILLING CO. Pty.Ltd.
331 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Works—Sturt St., S. Melbourne.
Q//PQLL
B«! MDOSIHt
TRii
Oi!l lM ll'tli.y KUMfcIV
RUMELY TRACTOR.
Works continuously on CHEAPEST Kerosene
BORING CONTRACTORS
and MANUFACTURERS.
Armstrong Traction and All-Steel Boring
Machines, Tools and Casing in stock.
Gasoline and Kerosene Engines, Wind-
mills, Pumps, Silos, Hay Presses,
Wagons, etc., etc.
the lone hand
A Monthly Guide for everything
Australian.
IT IS A WISE PRECAUTION
to take the greatest care of your health. In order to do this
effectually it is necessary from time to time to take a few doses
of the right medicine —one that will regulate and tone up the
digestive system. There ought to be no difficulty in deciding
what that is. The verdict in favour of Beecham’s Pills is
overwhelming. Many people find it ah excellent plan
TO TAKE
them periodically. They are the remedy, par excellence, for
cleansing the system from impurities and ensuring a correct and
regular action of the important organs of digestion, assimilation,
and execretion. Vigour of body and mind, are the portion only
of the healthy. Remember, then, that health may be established
and maintained by the use of that old and well-tried remedy—
BEECHAM’S
PILLS.
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
. . . AT . . .
THE BANKING HOUSE, 228 Pitt Street,
Opposite PALACE THEATRE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LENDS MONEY ON ALL SECURITIES, including Furniture,
FROM 10 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
FRED. McWILLIAM, Manager.
c~s
20th Century Band Saw.
KIRCHNER’S
Woodworking Machines
are giving satisfaction.
Write for Catalogue and Information
direct to the
MANUFACTURERS—
KIRGHNER & GO.,
32 Market Street, SYDNEY
Automatic
Knife Grinding
Machine.
Metz-“22 ” £.190
The Simple Car for the Country.
These Serviceable Cars are at Work all over N.s.W.
If you require a Simple, Economical, Reliable and Moderately-priced Car it will
pay you to investigate the METZ. Friction Drive (eliminating complicated
gear wheels), 22 H P., 4 cyl. Bosch Ignition, 10§in. clearance, 45m. p. hour,
33m. p. gallon.
Brown U Hdlicar Ltd.,
375 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
The British-built
Waver ley, £350.
Indian Motocycles,
858n5.-
ASTHMA CURE
GRIIMILTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Cough*,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIM AULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. So'd bv all Chemists.
HEALS ANY WOUND OR SORE .
If you have an obstinate sore, a wound that won’t
knit, a bad leg or a skin eruption of any kind,
no matter of how long standing, you can cure it
quickly and surely witji
WILKINSON’S
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT.
Price 1/6, posted 1/9. J. WILKINSON, Chemist
1] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane
r
WE ALSO STOCK:
Drilling Machines
Shaping Machines
Hack Saw Machines
Blowers
Power Hammers
Morse Goods
Punching and Shearing
Machines
Milling Machines
And a full range of
Accessories.
The “Aster”
For Precise Work.
The “Aster” is not a big lathe. It has been built for
the man who turns out a great deal of small, precise
work. Its accuracy is really remarkable —enabling
one to work to almost the thickness of a shadow. It
has sin. centres, runs in outside spring conic,al
boxes, which do not alter the axial position of the
spindles by adjustment. The spindle is provided with
face ball-bearings. Whitworth and Metric pitches
may be cut on the “ASTER” as well as gaspipe
threads.
For further details write to our machine tool expert.
He will reply personally. (CASH OR TERMS.)
"pn "03 s nvaooo w x
Universal
Machinery Merchants
303-5 Kent Street, Sydney.


ARCHITECTS specif v
Mack Partitions
and have a Fire-Proof*,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MACK LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
; ,>
12in. Fan ~
taking
45 Watts.
FANS
For AH Voltages
and Systems.
Stocked in Desk, Wall and Ceiling Types.
Rigid Body, Swivel and Trunnion, and Oscillating Patterns.
PRICES MODERATE. Send for Lists.
EiDfflllMW#
OF AUSTRALIA Ltd*
SYDNEY : Wynyard Lane. 3520 city.
MELBOURNE: 61 William Street. 5117 city.
BRISBANE: Corner Saul 8 Roma Streets. 3676 central
It is the Power
Your Belt
Transmits
that
Counts.
T*
£
l
rtfgscasgs',
Be
Specify
BELTING
Agents
Hardie 8 Co.
Circular Quay,
SYDNEY.
And MELBOURNE.
*:>
7 f-’vv'H
Spirit
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS
Women
. ' •• -
■
M 111n1.5.l II
A PERFECT INSULATION.
NEWALL’S
STEAH PIPE & BOILE
Ensure the Maximum
Efficiency,
Showing a Saving of nearly 50%
over ordinary coverings.
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD.,
§r*EES OE; am EH- EH E f n *-*' • ■
MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and PERTH.
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRONFOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Valves, . Pumps, Fluming,
Patent “Nelyambo” Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Fluming, Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought iron Work.
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
■ - ih!* 1
HIGH-GRADE TOOLS for
MODERN MACHINE SHOP EQUIPMENT
Thule Cranß Shapers
Study the design and construction of these Modern High-grade Tools.
Simplicity is one of their features nothing complicated with which
to confuse the operator, yet having every convenience for the rapid
production of accurate worK. All the weight and stability is
there, needed for the heaviest worß.
Equipped with BacK Gearing, Auto-Down Feed, Auto-Cross Feed, Revolving
Table adjustable to any Angle, Swivel Vyce, Countershaft, etc.
Call and inspect our stock of these Modern Tools, or let us send you full descriptive catalogue and prices.
FOR THE THULE-
Engineers & Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence Street, Sydney.
WSi'.Si.'i
MODEL “D”
PATENTED.
- ; ■ v * -- v ;■
. .v • "
SPECIAL DECAYS for COARSE and FINE SANDS,
as used by the leading Australasian mines on
TIN, COPPER, GOLD, SILVER, LEAD, WOLFRAM, etc.
The ** CARD ** is manufadured
SOLE LICENSEES
N.
LIE-
Equitable Building, Sydney.
Church Lane, Melbourne.
Camomile St. Chambers, London.
